

— * v.y.v.v: 







PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LXXI 



1919 



philadelphia: 

 The Academy- of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1920 




The Academy of Natcral Sciences of Philadelphia, 



March 13, 1920. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1919 were 

 mailed as follows: 



Pages 1-16 May 20, 1919. 



17-120 June 13, 1919. 



121-152 September 11, 1919. 



153-168 ; ; October 15, 1919. 



169-206 '. December 3, 1919. 



207-318 March 13. 1920. 



P]DWARD J. NOLAN, Recording Secretary, 



Per WILLIAM J. FOX, Ading Editor. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., ScD., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc. D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, Sc.D. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., ex-officio. 

 EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 




CONTENTS 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Berry, S. Stillman. MoUusca of Glacier National Park, 



Montana. Plates IX, X 195 



Caziot, E. Synonymic Study on the Mollusks of the Departe- 

 ment des Alpes Maritimes mentioned by Antoine Risso 

 with Notes on their Classification 156 



Cresson, Ezra T., Jr. Dipterological Notes and Descriptions 171 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Synentognathous Fishes 2 



A New Silm'oid Fish of the Genus Cyclopium from Col- 

 ombia Plate VIII 125 



Notes on Tropical American Fishes 128 



Notes on New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Virginia Fishes 292 



Gardner, Julia A., and T. H. Aldrich. Mollusca from the 

 Upper Miocene of South Carolina with Descriptions 

 of New Species. Plates I-IV 17 



Jordan, David Starr. New Genera of Fossil Fishes from 



Brazil 208 



Jordan, Da\id Starr, and Masamitsu Oshima Salmo for- 

 mosanus, a New Trout from the Mountain Streams of 

 Formosa 122 



Pennell, Francis W. Scrophulariacese of the Southeastern 



United States 224 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Oyster Farms of Delaware Bay (Abstract) 54 



A peculiar Venezuelan Land Snail 206 



Mollusca from Central America and Mexico. Plate XI 212 



Rehn, James A. G. A Study of the Orthopterous Genus Mer- 



miria Stal. Plates V-VII 55 



I U3^U 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1919 



January 21. 

 The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twentj'-seven persons present. 



Dr. Witmer Stone made a communication on the plants of 

 Cape May. (No abstract.) 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry spoke of the results of his collecting, 

 with Mr. J. H. Ferris, mollusks of southern Arizona. (No abstract.) 



The following w^as ordered to be printed: 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



NOTES ON SYNENTOGNATHOUS FISHES 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The fishes embraced in this order are commonly known as bill- 

 fishes or green-gars, sam-ies, half-beaks and flying-fishes. With 

 one exception, as noted below, all are contained in the collection 

 of the Academy. 



BELONIDiE. 



At least two distinct sub-genera occur in the limits of Belone. 

 Cuvier. Raphistoma Rafinesque, as pointed out by Regan, may 

 be accepted as a nomen nudum. 



Sub-genus BELONE Cuvier. 



Body compressed behind vent, without lateral keels. Gill- 

 opening extends well forward. Gill-rakers moderate, lanceolate. 



Belone belone (Linnseus). 



Eight from the Mediterranean. 



PLATYBELONE new sub-genus. 

 Type Belone platyura Bennett. 



Body broadly depressed behind, with strong lateral keels. Gill- 

 opening rather restricted. Gill-rakers short points. (xT^axuc;, broad, 

 with reference to the caudal peduncle; Belone.) 



Belone platyura B nnett. 



Two Hawaiian examples from J. K. Townsend. These examples 

 are of interest historically, as among the first of the species ob- 

 tained in the Hawaiian Islands, several years before Valenciennes 

 described it as Belone carinata. 



B. trachura Valenciennes also belongs in the present sub-genus. 



STRONGYLURA Van Hasselt. 



Bull. Sci. Nat. Ferussac (2 sect.) ii, 1824, p. 374. Type Strongylura caudimaculata 

 Van Hasselt. 



Strongylura Van Hasselt thus antedates Tylosurus Cocco/ and 

 though without diagnosis is clearly based on the easily recognized 



iGiorn. Sci. Lett. Sicilia, XLIl, 1833, No. 124, 18. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



figure and account by Russell. *S. caudunaculata Van Hasselt 

 was deliberately proposed to avoid tautonomy and replace Belone 

 strongylura Van Hasselt of the preceding year, while both specific 

 names gained usage through the works of Bleeker. The species 

 with large scales and blunt caudal fin may then remain in the sub- 

 genus Strongylura Van Hasselt, while the larger and more finely- 

 scaled species with forked caudals may contain Tylosurus Cocco. 



Strongylura strongylura (Van Hasselt). 



Philippines. 



Strongylura notata (Poey). 



A large series from Florida (Stuart, Boca Grande, Marquesas 

 Keys, Big Pine Key, Hailer's Rock, Boca Chica Key, Bayport. 

 Wes.t Palm Beach and Key West). 



strongylura scapulare (Jordan and Culver). 



Panama. 



strongylura timucu (Walbaum). 



Colon, and Santo Domingo, W. I. 



Strongylura exile (Girard). 



San Diego, Cal. 



strongylura peruana new species. Fig. 1. 



Head, from tip of frontal process, 5j; depth 1| in postocular; 

 D. II, 12; A. II, 14; P. i, 10; V. i, 5; scales about 350 from opposite 

 upper hind edge of gill-opening to caudal base medially; about 

 235 scales between occiput and dorsal origin; eye 2f in postocular; 

 interorbital 2f ; first branched dorsal ray about 1^; first branched 

 anal ray about Ij; pectoral 1; ventral If. 



Body elongate, moderately slender, cylindrical. Caudal pe- 

 duncle cylindrical, or about broad as deep, least depth 1^ in eye, 

 and with slight keel each side behind for lateral line. 



Head level above, flattened sides narrowly constricted below, 

 width if in postocular. Jaws not completely closing basallj^, 

 snout width at eyes long as frontal process. Eye little ellipsoid, 

 close to upper profile though not impinging. Maxillary well 

 exposed, reaches beyond front of eye or half way in front part of 

 iris to pupil. Band of outer teeth in jaws very fine and narrow, 

 and larger inner well spaced. No teeth on mouth roof. Tongue 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



elongate, pointed, free. Triangular nasal cavity about long as 

 pupil. Interorbital and top of head with rather shallow con- 

 cave median depression, not extending back to occiput. Few 

 ridges or striae on bones of head above. Opercle width about 

 wide as cheek. 



Fig. 1. — Strongylura peruana. 



Gill-opening extends forward to front pupil edge. No rakers. 

 Gill-filaments 1| in eye. Isthmus long narrow frenum. 



Scales small, uniform, each with about 18 to 20, coarse complete 

 circuli. Maxillary, sides of mandible basally, opercles, and most 

 of head covered with fine scales. Cheek with about 30 rows of 

 scales behind eye to preopercle ridge. Front of dorsal and anal 

 basally with small scales. Lateral line with short branch to 

 pectoral base, and behind extends up midway along caudal pe- 

 duncle side on keel to caudal base. 



Dorsal inserted about last fourth between hind eye edge and 

 caudal base, front rays elevated as lobe. Anal similar, inserted 

 little before dorsal. Caudal broad, hind edge (damaged) emar- 

 ginate or with lower lobe slightly longer. Pectoral inserted little 

 high, pointed, and uppermost or simple ray enlarged. Ventral 

 rather obtuse, inserted about midway betw^een hind preopercle 

 edge and caudal base. Vent about half an eye-diameter before 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol dull, brownish generally, sides and below paler 

 or with brassy to silvery reflections. Narrow brassy-leaden streak 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



along side, most distinct, at front of dorsal and anal. Iris pale. 

 Fins all dull brownish. 



Length (beak broken) 310 mm. 



Type, No. 21,924, A. N. S. P. Callao Baj^, Peru. Prof. James 

 Orton. Collection of 1876-1877. Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Only the t3'pe known. Allied with Strongylura exile, but differs 

 in the shorter preorbital, less notched maxillary, slightly fewer 

 branched dorsal and anal rays and larger scales. (Named for 

 Peru.) 



Strongylura marina (Walbaum). 



A large series from Massachusetts (Wood's Hole) ; New Jersey 

 (Barnegat, Great Bay, Atlantic Cit}^ Ocean City, Sea Isle City, 

 Corson's Inlet, Newbold's Island, Florence and Duck Island); 

 Pennsylvania (Delaware River, Philadelphia, Torresdale, Susque- 

 hanna River, Peach Bottom) ; Maryland (Chesapeake Bay, Elk 

 Neck, Pool Creek, Charlestown, Ocean City); and Florida (Bay- 

 port and Boca Grande). 



Strongylura leiuroides (Bleeker). 



Philippines. 



strongylura anostomella (Valenciennes). 



Hakodate, Japan. 



Strongylura leiura (Bleeker). 



Padang, Sumatra. 



Strongylura raphidoma (Ranzani). 



Kingston, Jamaica, and Culebra, Porto Rico. 



Strongylura acus (Lacepede). 



A series of all ages: Massachusetts (Nantucket); New Jersey 

 (Sea Isle City and Ocean City); Pennsylvania (Susquehanna 

 River) ; Mediterranean. 



Strongylura coromandelica (Van Hasselt). 

 Padang, Sumatra. 



strongylura crocodila (Le Sueur). 



Padang, Sumatra. Although I have only the present example 

 from the East Indies, it differs slightly from one I identified as 

 Tylosurus choram (Riippell) obtained in the Camaroons. The 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Padang fish differs in the maxillary reaching the pupil, gill-opening 

 extending forward about to front pupil edge, longer hind dorsal 

 rays and much finer scales, though the last structurally identical. 



Xenentodon cancila (B. Hamilton). 



Ganges River, India. 



Potamorrhaphis guianensis (Schomburgk). 



Peruvian Amazon and Rupununi River. Potamorrhaphis eigen- 

 manni Ribeiro^, from Paraguay, has D. 28, A. 25 and scales 136 to 

 150. My examples reveal an extent of variation not quite so 

 low as these formulas, other characters well within the limits, 

 and still others exceeding even some Dr. Ribeiro gives for P. 

 guianensis. 



Ablennes hians (Valenciennes). 



St. Christopher's Island, British West Indies. 



SCOMBERESOCIDiE. 

 Scomberesox saurus (Walbaum). 



Newport, R. I.; Cape Cod, Mass. Three from the Atlantic in 

 the Bonaparte Collection. 



HEMIRAMPHID^. 

 Chriodorus atherinoides Goode and Bean. 



Marquesas Keys and Hailer's Rock, Florida. 



Hyporhamphus pacificus (Steindachner). 



Hawaiian Islands. 



Hyporhamphus neglectus (Bleeker). 



Padang, Sumatra. 



Hyporhamphus unifasciatus (Ranzani). 



Colon, Canal Zone; St. Martin's, W. I.; Trinidad; Boqueron, 

 Porto Rico; West coast of Mexico; Los Animas Bay, Lower Cali- 

 fornia. Provisionally this species may be retained as the short- 

 billed form, though I have but one example from the Boqueron 

 lot and another from the west coast of Mexico as exceptions. 

 None of the young appear to have longer beaks than the adults. 



2 Arch. Mus. Nac. Rio Janeiro, XVII, 1915, p. 13. 




1919. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 7 



Hyporhamphus roberti (Valenciennes). 



Newport, Rhode Island; Corson's Inlet, New Jersey; Volusia, 

 St. Augustine, Key West and Point Puellas, West Florida. In 

 most examples, or excepting the largest, which from Rhode Island, 

 and another from Key West, the ventral origin is about midway 

 between preopercle edge and caudal base. In the exceptions it 

 is about midway between hind eye edge and caudal base. All, 

 however, have the beak over twice the head length as measured 

 after front eye edge. 



Hyporhamphus kurumeus Jordan and Starks. 



Chikugo River at Kurume, Japan. 



EULEPIDORHAMPHUS new sub-genus. 

 Type Hemiramphus sajori Schlegel. 



Distinguished from the sub-genus Hyporhamphus Gill by its 

 very small scales, 90 to 100 in lateral series. (Eu, well; Xszic, scale; 

 'gi\x^oq, beak.) 



Hyporhamphus sajori (Schlegel). 



Hakodate and Kushiro, Japan. 



Hemiramphus intermedius Cantor. 



Victoria, Australia. Though Glinther says^ dorsal and anal 

 scaleless, and Macleay** apparently copies, McCoy^ shows the dorsal 

 and anal scaleless. The last, however, indicated the dorsal en- 

 tirely with broken or somewhat clotted horizontal dark lines, 

 which are not clearly intended as scales. In my examples the 

 membranes of the soft dorsal and anal are covered with fine narrow 

 scales for at least f basally. 



Hemiramphus far (Forskal). 



Philippines; Padang, Sumatra; Zanzibar. 



Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linnaeus). 



Sea Isle City, New Jersey; Chesapeake Bay; Aguadilla, Porto 

 Rico; St. Kitts and St. Croix, West Indies; Port Antonio, Jamaica; 

 Christian Island, west coast of Mexico; Honolulu, Hawaiian 

 Islands. 



3 Cat. F. Brit. Mus., VI, 1866, p. 260. 



* Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, V, 1881, p. 181. 



6 Nat. Hist. Victoria, II, 1890, p. 133, PL 135, fig. 1. . 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Hemiramphus limbatus Valenciennes. 



Philippines. 



Hemiramphus quoyi Valenciennes. 



Philippines. 



Hemiramphus affinis G anther. 



Apia, Samoa. 



Zenarchopterus hendersoni new species. Fig. 2. 



Head (from upper jaw tip) 4; depth 9j; D. i, 12; A. ii, 9; P. i, 7; 

 V. I, 5; scales 45 in lateral series from shoulder to caudal base 

 mediallj^; 34 scales before dorsal to head; 5 scales above lateral 

 line at dorsal origin, and 1 below at anal origin; snout 2^ in head 

 from upper jaw tip; eye 5; maxillary 2|; interorbital 3f; first 

 branched dorsal ray about 4; first branched anal ray about 3f; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; caudal If; pectoral 2 J; ventral 

 about 4. 



Body moderately elongate and compressed, more especially 

 behind dorsal and anal origins, and back at present much broader 

 than belly. Caudal peduncle short, its length little less than 

 eye. 



Fig. 2. — Zenarchopterus hendersoni. 



Head well compressed, flattened sides narrowly convergent 

 below, width 3| in its length from upper jaw tip. Upper jaw 

 depressed, elongate, triangular, width at front of eyes If its length. 

 Eye moderate, about half of snout, touches upper profile, and 

 midway in head length. Mouth with rather long, horizontal 

 gape, at least f to eye. Maxillarj^ concealed, reaches opposite 

 nasal cavity. Teeth minute, conic, in narrow bands in jaws, 

 though bands of lower only extend forward about f as far as upper. 

 Front maxillary edge with narrow band of fine teeth. No teeth 

 on roof of mouth. Lower jaw produced as long, flattened beak, 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



edges entire, and head behind front eye edge about 3 in its length. 

 Nasal cavity about f of pupil, superior. Interorbital flattened. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge. 

 Gill-rakers 5+11, lanceolate, longest about f of filaments and 

 latter 2| in eye. Isthmus narrow slender frenum. 



Scales moderately large, cycloid, rather narrowly imbricated, 

 basal striae 4 to 6, basal circuli 35 to 40 and terminal faces entire. 

 Head scaly, a single row of large scales on cheek, and scales on 

 opercles large. Several rows of small scales on caudal base, and 

 dorsal and anal apparently without scales. Lateral line com- 

 plete, low along side, and extends up behind just below median 

 scale at caudal base, all tubes simple. 



Dorsal inserted at last fourth between hind edge of gill-opening 

 and caudal base, last ray reaching back little beyond latter. Anal 

 inserted trifle behind dorsal origin, much shorter than dorsal. 

 Caudal rounded behind. Pectoral placed high, small. Ventral 

 inserted scarcely before last third in space between hind edge of 

 gill-opening and caudal base, fins not quite half way to anal. Vent 

 close before anal. 



Color in alcohol pale, dull brownish generally, more or less uni- 

 form. Sides of head and below with traces of silvery reflections. 

 A narrow silvery-gray lateral band, about wide as pupil, most 

 conspicuous between dorsal and anal. 



Length 142 mm. 



Type, Xo. 7,584, A N. S. P. Japan. Dr. A. A. Henderson. 



This species, known only from the type described above, is 

 closely related to Zenarchopterus amhlyurus (Bleeker). According 

 to Bleeker 's figure*', it differs in the more posterior insertion of 

 the ventral, shorter row of lower teeth, apparently more rounded 

 caudal and scaleless dorsal fin. This specimen has long been in 

 the Academy, probably sixty years or more, and still has the 

 original labels intact. 



(Named for Dr. A. A. Henderson.) 



Zenarchopterus philippinus (Peters). 

 Philippines. 



Zenarchopterus dispar (Valenciennes). 

 Philippines. 



6 Atlas Ichth., VI, 1866-72, p. 61, Pi. 4, fig. 1. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Dermatogenys viviparus (Peters). 



Philippines, 

 Euleptorhamphus velox (Poey). 



Atlantic City, N. J. 



Hemiexocoetus caudimaculatus Fowler, 



* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 293, fig. N. Lat. 23° W. Long. 106° 

 (Mazatlan, Mexico). 



No. 7,508, A. N. S. P., type. 



EXOCOETID^. 

 Fodiator acutus (Valenciennes). 



Panama. 



Evolantia microptera (Valenciennes). 



An example from south of the Revillagigedo Islands (Dr. Wm. H. 

 Jones). The label says "from the stomach of a gannet captm-ed 

 June, 1875, 150 miles south of the Revillagigedo Islands, and 

 stomach had 11 fish of same kind." 



Parexocoetus brachypterus (Richardson). 



Hawaiian Islands. 



Parexocoetus mesogaster (Bloch). 



Newport, Rhode Island; St. Martin's, West Indies. 



Exocoetus volitans Linnaeus. 



Exoccetus chilensis Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 472. Chili. 

 Nos. 7498 and 7499, A. N. S. P., co-types of E. chilensis Abbott. 

 Others from the Atlantic Ocean, "in the tropics," Indian Ocean, 

 Hawaii and Victoria, Australia. 



Cypselurus exsiliens (P. L. S. Mailer). 



N. Lat. 31° 30' W. Long. 36° 36'. 



Cypselurus rondeleti (Valenciennes). 



Two adults. Gulf of Mexico and the Bonaparte Collection, 

 respectively. 



Cypselurus polyethmus new species. Fig. 3. 



Head 4f ; depth 6; D. ii, 9; A. ii, 10; P. ii, 15; V. i, 5; scales (pock- 

 ets) about 40 counted from shoulder to caudal base medially; 

 27 scales before dorsal to occiput; about 8 scales (pockets) above 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



1. I. to dorsal origin; snout 3| in head, measured from upper jaw 

 tip; eye 3|; maxillary 3f; interorbital 2i; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3|. 



Fig. 3. — Cypselurus polyethmus. 



Body elongately fusiform in contour, deepest medially, broad 

 and depressed above forward, and becoming Avell compressed 

 behind. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth If its length. 



Head broadly depressed above, flattened sides narrowly con- 

 stricted below, width If its length, and lower profile much more 

 inclined. Snout broadly depressed, length | its wadth. Eye 

 high, large, impinging slightly on upper profile, hind pupil edge 

 slightly in advance of head center. Mouth small, with short 

 gape, and mandible slightly protruding beyond snout tip. Teeth 

 minute, feeble, only a few scattered along front edges of trenchant 

 jaws, which otherwise smooth. Mouth roof toothless. Maxillary 

 largely concealed, only narrow lower edges exposed, reaches eye. 

 Tongue smooth, depressed, moderately long, front end rounded 

 and free. Nasal cavity triangular, about half of pupil. Preorbital 

 1|- in eye. Interorbital broad, level. 



Gill-opening extends forward to nasal cavity. Gill-rakers 

 9 4-21, lanceolate, very slightly less than filaments which If in 

 eye. Isthmus slender frenum in front. 



Scales large, very caducous, cycloid, rather narrow^ly exposed, 

 largest anteriorly on back and head above, basal radii 4 to 6, 

 circuli complete, about 36 to 40. Dorsal and anal apparently 

 scaleless, though caudal base scaly. Head covered with scales, 

 though apparently edge of snout rather broadly naked. Breast 

 covered with moderately small scales. 



Dorsal origin about last third in space between hind gill-opening 

 edge and caudal base, front rays a little elevated. Anal inserted 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



about opposite dorsal origin, similar to dorsal. Caudal well 

 forked, lobes pointed and lower apparently much longer (dam- 

 aged) and about long as head. Pectoral long, reaches back to 

 last dorsal ray base, its first and second uppermost rays simple. 

 Ventral inserted slightly nearer head than caudal base, reaches 

 back not quite so far as pectoral or about | to caudal base, with 

 median branched ray longest. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol pale brown on back, sides and below silvery- 

 whitish. Dorsal and caudal pale, medially tinged with brown. 

 Pectoral deep brownish over greater median portion, blackish 

 inside, though extreme inner edge and whole outer edge whitish. 

 Anal whitish, also ventral, though latter with quite large median 

 lengthwise brownish area. Iris whitish and muzzle pale. 



Length 175 mm. 



Type, No. 7,493, A. N. S. P. Atlantic Ocean. C. L. Bona- 

 parte (No. 346). 



Only the above described example known, which differs from 

 Cypselurus rondeleti in the shorter pectoral and more numerous 

 gill-rakers. My examples of C. rondeleti show the pectoral reach- 

 ing the caudal base and the gill-rakers 7 + 15, though the larger 

 248 mm. long. 



(■KoXijq, many; tqQ/^os, strainer, or gill-raker, as here understood.) 



Cypselurus vinciguerrse (Jordan and Meek) . 

 Adult from Gulf of Mexico. 



Cypselurus hyperistius new species. Fig. 4. 



Head 4^; depth 6; D. ii, 9; A. ii, 9; P. i, 17; V. i, 5; scales 50 

 counted from shoulder to caudal base medially and 4 more on 

 latter; 31 predorsal scales to head; 7 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal 

 origin; snout 4 in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3; maxil- 

 lary 3f; interorbital 2j; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|. 



Body elongate, robust forward where also constricted below 

 and upper surface broadened, though posterior regions well com- 

 pressed. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth about 

 If its length. 



Head broadly depressed above, flattened sides narrowly con- 

 stricted below, width 1^ its length, and front profiles about evenly 

 inclined. Snout moderately broad, conic, length about f its 

 width. Eye very large, high, greatly impinging on upper profile, 

 and hind pupil edge slightly advanced from center in head length. 




]919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13 



Mouth small, with short inclined gape, and mandible slightly 

 protruded beyond snout tip. Teeth small, simple, conic, and 

 as very narrow band or row along front edges of trenchant jaws. 

 Mouth roof toothless. Maxillary well exposed, or at least lower 

 half its Avhole length, extends slightly beyond front of eye or not 

 quite half way in iris to pupil. Tongue smooth, depressed, mod- 

 erately long, front end rounded and free. Nasal cavity close 

 before eye, about half of pupil. Preorbital rather slender, 1| 

 in eye. Interorbital broad, slightly concave. 



Fig. 4. — Cypselurus hyperisiius. 



Gill-opening extends forward to front eye edge. Gill-rakers 

 7-f-17, lanceolate, about long as filaments, which slightly less 

 than 2 in eye. Isthmus long slender frenum in front. 



Scales large, mostly adherent, cycloid, moderately exposed, 

 largest anteriorly on back and head above, basal radii 3 to 5, 

 circuli complete, about 26 to 30. Dorsal and anal apparently 

 scaleless, though caudal base scaly. Head covered with scales, 

 2 or 3 rows on cheek and edge of snout rather broadly naked. 

 Breast scales of moderate size. Lateral line apparently not beyond 

 anal as squaination damaged. 



Dorsal origin at last third between hind pupil edge and caudal 

 base, front rays a little elevated. Anal origin slightly before 

 that of dorsal, fin similar. Caudal well forked, lobes pointed 

 and lower much longer or about equals head and eye length. Pec- 

 toral long, reaches back not quite far as last depressed dorsal 

 and anal rays, thus not quite to caudal base, and first or upper- 

 most simple ray connected with next or first branched ray by 

 broad membrane. Ventral inserted midway between hind eye 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



edge and caudal base, simple ray about f length of first branched 

 ray which longest, fin thus reaching slightly nearer caudal base 

 than last depressed dorsal or anal rays. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol with back and upper surfaces dull brownish, 

 sides and below silvery-whitish, also iris. Muzzle pale, and broad, 

 dull blackish streak on chin to front of branchiostegals. Dorsal 

 and caudal pale brownish, ends of long front rays of former black- 

 ish. Anal whitish. Pectoral with membranes largely blackish, 

 lower face of fin with silvery tinge, inner edge whitish and at point 

 near basal f pale cross-bar half way from upper edge. Ventral 

 largely blackish medially, edges and end broadly whitish. 



Length about 92 mm. (Caudal tip damaged.) 



Type, No. 7,485, A. N. S. P. St. Martins, West Indies. Dr. 

 R. E. Van Rijgersma. 



Only the type known. This species is allied with Cypselurus 

 vinciguerrcB, but differs in the uppermost or elongate simple ray 

 of the pectoral being provided with a broad membrane. 



('Yxsp, over; icziov, sail; with reference to the structure of the 

 pectoral fin.) 



Cypselurus speculiger (Valenciennes). 



Atlantic Ocean. 



Cypselurus nifipinnis (Valenciennes). 



Exocoetus acylla Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (n. s.) XIV, 1871, 

 p. 481. Tobasco, Mexico. 



No. 7,500, A. N. S. P., type of E. scylla Cope. 



Cypselurus heterurus (Raflnesque). 



St. Martins, West Indies. 



Cypselurus lutkeni (Jordan and Evermann). 



Exucatus hdkoii Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, 

 I, 1896, p. 736. "Cape San Antonio, Cuba." (Evidently erroneous.) 



No. 7,502, A. N. S. P., type of E. lutkeni Jordan and Ever- 

 mann. 



Cypselurus furcatus (Mitchili). 



Atlantic Ocean and Newport, R. I. 



Cypselurus bicolor (Valenciennes). 



S. Lat. 18° 20' 5" W. Long. 34° 5'. 



Cypselurus nigricans (Bennett). 



Sea Isle City, N. J. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Cypselurus lineatus (Valenciennes). 



One mile north of Funchal, Madeira (September 17, 1912). 

 Joseph Redl. 



Cypselurus bahiensis (Ranzani). 



An example about a foot long, was kindly loaned to me by 

 Dr. P. P. Calvert, now in his possession. It "flew" on board a 

 vessel off the coast of Brazil. 



Cypselurus calif ornicus (Cooper). 



San Pedro, California. Also others from Santa Catalina, re- 

 ceived from Messrs. Morgan Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn. 



Cypselurus agoo (Schlegel). 



Tsuruga, Yokahama and Miyako, Japan. 



Cypselurus quindecimradiatus Fowler. 



Cypselurus quindeciinradintus Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S99, 

 p. 482, PI. 17. Thornton Island, South Pacific. 



No. 23,275, A. N. S. P., type of C. quindecimradiatus Fowler. 



Cypselurus simus (Valenciennes). 



Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands. 



Cypselurus gibbifrons (Valenciennes). 



Newport, Rhode Island. 




lb PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



February 18. 

 The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Forty-nine persons present. 



Dr. Edgar Fahs Smith spoke of the mineralogists and chemists 

 associated with the early history of the Academy. (No abstract.) 



George L. Harrison, Jr., was elected a member of the Council 

 to serve one year, and Roswell C. Williams, Jr., to serve two years. 



W. Judson Coxey was elected a member. 

 The following was ordered to be printed: 




1919. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



17 



MOLLUSCA FROM THE UPPER MIOCENE OF SOUTH CAROLINA WITH 

 DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES 



BY JULIA A. GARDNER and T. H. ALDRICH 



The exact locality from which the mollusca listed in this paper 

 were collected is known as the Muldrow Place, Sumter County, 

 South Carolina, and is located five miles southeast of jNIayesville. 

 The material is a blue clay marl twelve feet thick, exposed on 

 some small streams. Normally it is overlaid by about twelve 

 feet of sand and loam. Earle Sloan listed it on p. 308 of his " Cata- 

 logue of the Mineral Localities of South Carolina," and named it 

 "Upper Pee Dee Phase" of the Miocene. It seems to be very 

 nearly of the same age as the Duplin beds farther north, and con- 

 tains a great number of the same species. The fauna is more 

 tropical in character than the Miocene of Maryland and Virginia. 



List of 



Malampus lineatus Say. 



Acteon cf. shilohensis Whitfield. 



Acteocina canaliculata (Say). 



Acteocina myrmecdon Dall. 



Volvula oxytata Bush. 



Terebra caroHnensis (Conrad). 



Terebra negleda Emmons. 



Terebra dislocata Say. 



Terebra indenta Conrad. 



Terebra concava Say. 



Conus marylandicus Green. 



Conus adversarius Conrad. 



DrilUa tricatenaria Conrad. 



Drillia myrmecdon Dall. 



Drillia elegans Emmons. 



Drillia tuberculata Emmons. 



Drillia aphanitoma subsp. oxia Dall. 



Drillia precursor n. sp. 



Drillia sumterensiis n. sp. 



Drillia limatula Lea. 



Drillia perpolita Dall. 



Drillia polygonalis Dall. 



Drillia pagodula Dall. 



Drillia simpsoni Dall. 



Mangilia eritima Bush. 



Mangilia aff. rubella Kurtz & Stimp- 



son. 

 Glyphostoma johnsoni Dall. 

 Cancellaria tabulata n. sp. 

 Cancellaria venusta Tuomey & Holmes. 



species 



Cancellaria (Trigonosioma) tenera Phil- 

 ippi. 



Oliva litterata Lamarck. 



Olivella mulica (Sayj. 



Marginella borealis Verrill. 



Marginella contracta Conrad. 



Marginella beila (Conrad). 



Marginella denticulata Conrad. 



Marginella aureocincta Stearns. 



Marginella aff. avena subsp. avenacea 

 Deshayes. 



Marginella gravida Dall. 



Marginella anliqua Redfield. 



Marginella oliviformis Tuomey & 

 Holmes. 



Marginella minuta Pfeiffer. 



Marginella (Volutella) dacria Dall. 



Aurinia mutabilis (Conrad). 



Mitra caroHnensis Conrad. 



Miira wandoensis (Holmes). 



Mitra dalli n. sp. 



Mitromorpha mi'.roiila n. sp. 



Fasciolaria rhomboidea Rogers. 



Busycon pyrum subsp. excavaium Con- 

 rad. 



Busycon concinum Conrad. 



Busycon maximum Conrad. 



Busycon perversum Linne. 



Ecphora quadricostata (Say). 



Fusinus I exilis (Conrad). 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Fusinus caloosaensis subsp. carolinensis 

 Dall. 



Pisania {Calatoconus) nux Dall. 



Nassaria (Nassarina) glypta Bush. 



Ptychosalpinx laqueatum Conrad. 



Phos sloani n. sp. 



Ilyanassa granifera Conrad. 



Alectrion scalaspira (Conrad). 



Alectrion johnsoni (Dall). 



Alectrion vibex (Say). 



Alectrion ? consensa Ravenel. 



Alectrion neogenensis n. sp. 



Anachis ? camax Dall. 



Anachis sumterensis n. sp. 



Anachis styliola n. subsp. obsoleta. 



Anachis anomala n. sp. 



Astyris communis n. subsp. carolinen- 

 sis. 



Astyris lunata (Say). 



Murex {Chicoreus) aff. burnsii Whit- 

 field. 



Murex (Pterorytis) conradi Dall. 



Ocinebra cellulosa (Conrad). 



Urosalpinx trossulus (Conrad). 



JJrosalpinx phriknos n. sp. 



Muricidea aff. floridana (Conrad). 



Peristernia filicata Conrad. 



Coralliophila lepidota Dall. 



Epitonium muldrowi n. sp. 



Epitonium aff. lineatum Say. 



Niso ? urillcoxiana Dall. 



Melanella bartschi n. sp. 



Melanella magnoliana n. sp. 



Strombiforniis dalli n. sp. 



Cassis hodgei Conrad. 



Cypraea carolinensis Conrad. 



Erato f maugeriae Gray. 



Triforis ? nodesta C. B. Adams. 



Seila clavidus (H. C. Lea). 



Cerithiopsis aff. subulata Montagu. 



Cerilhiopsis off. greenei (C. B. Adams). 



Caecum cooperi Sanderson Smith. 



Caecum flemingi n. sp. 



Caecum ibex Dall. 



Vermetus {Petaloconchus) sculpturatus 

 H. C. Lea. 



Turritella etiwanensis Tuomey & 

 Holmes. 



Turritella duplinensis n. sp. 



Turritella carolinensis Conrad. 



Turritella burdeni (Tuomey & Holmes) . 



Fossarus lura Conrad. 



Architectonica granulata Lamarck. 



Rissoina johnsoni Dall. 



Crucibulum auriculum subsp. itnbri- 

 catum (Sowerby). 



Crucibulum auriculum subsp. spinosum 

 (Sowerby). 



Crucibulum constrictum Conrad. 



Crucibulum multilineatum Conrad. 



Calyptrcea centralis Conrad. 



Crepidula fornicata (Linne). 



Crepidula aculeata subsp. costata Mor- 

 ton. 



Crepidula plana Say. 



Natica canrena Linne. 



Natica pusilla Say. 



Polynices {Neverita} duplicatus Say. 



Polynices (Lunatia) internus (Say). 



Polynices (Lunatia) aff. perspectivus 

 Rogers. 



Sinum ? perspectivum (Say). 



Eunaticina carolinensis Dall. 



Collonia aff. elegantula Dall. 



Chlorostoma (Omphalium) exoleta Con- 

 rad. 



Catliostonia aff. willcoxianum Dall. 



Calliostoma off. aluminum Dall. 



Calliostoma aff. bellum (Conrad). 



Calliostoma {Eutrochus) arnillatum 

 Tuomey & Holmes. 



Liotia (Arene) gemma Tuomey & 

 Holmes. 



Liotia {Arene) major n. sp. 



Teinostoma carinatum (H. C. Lea). 



Cochliolepis aff. striata Dall. 



Episcynia multicarinata Dall. 



Fissuridea catelliformis Rogers. 



Fissuridea chipolana Dall. 



Fissuridea nucha Dall. 



Dentalium ? danai Meyer. 



Dentalium attenuatum Say. 



Dentalium carolinense Conrad. 



Cadulus thallus Conrad. 



Nucula proxima Say. 



Nucula lapteria Dall. 



Leda acuta Conrad. 



Leda trochilia Dall. 



Yoldia Icevis Say. 



Glycymeris subovata Say. 



Glycymeris americana de France. 



Glycymeris duplinensis Dall. 



Area (Barbatia) adamsi (Shuttle- 

 worth). 



Area {Noetia) incite Say. 



Area (Scapharca) scalaris Conrad. 



Area (Scapharca) lienosa Say. 



Area (Scapharca) carolinensis Wagner. 



Area (Scapharca) improcera Conrad. 



Area (Scapharca) improcera subsp. bu- 

 cula Conrad. 



Ostrea compressirostra Say. 



Ostrea sculpturata Conrad. 



Pecten eboreus Conrad. 



Plicatula marginata Say. 



Mytilus conradinus d'Orbigny. 



Thracia transversa H. C. Lea. 



Pandora (Kennerleyia) arenosa Con- 

 rad. 



Pandora (CUdiophora) prolromos n. sp. 



Pandora (Clidiophorj) tuomeyi n. sp. 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



19 



Cuspidaria (Cardiomya) aff. ornatis- 

 sima d'Orbigny. 



Verticordia eriimoiisi Conrad. 



Astarte glenni Dall. 



Astarte undulata Say. 



Astarte concentrica Conrad. 



Crassitellites {Scambula) undulatus Say. 



Crassiiellites (Crassinella) lunulatus 

 Conrad. 



Crassitellites (Crassinella) duplinianus 

 Dall. 



Cyrena (Pseudocyrena) dupliniana Dall 



Cardita (Carditamera) arata Conrad. 



Venericardia (Cyclocardia) granidata 

 Say. 



Venericardia (Pleuromeris) tridentata 

 Say. 



Venericardia (Pteromeris) perplana 

 Conrad. 



Venericardia (Pteromeris) perplana 

 subsp. abbreviata Conrad. 



Chama corticosa Conrad. 



Chartia striata Emmons. 



Phacoides (Cavilucina) trisulcatus (Con- 

 rad). 



Phacoides (Cavilucina) trisulcatus subsp 

 multistriatus (Conrad). 



Phacoides (Lucinisca) cribarius Say. 



Phacoides (Pseudomiltha) anodonta Say. 



Phacoides (Callucina) radians (Con- 

 rad). 



Phacoides (Parvilucina) mullineatus 

 Tuomey & Holmes. 



Phacoides (Bellucina) tuomeyi Dall. 



Codakia (Jagonia) speciosa (Rogers). 



Divaricella quadrisulcata d'Orbigny. 



Diplodonta nucleiformis (Wagner). 



Diplodonta aclinis Conrad. 



Diplodonta aff. leana Dall. 



Erycina carolinensis Dall. 



Bornia triangula Dall. 



Bornia rota Dall. 



Rochefortia stantoni Dall. 



Rochefortia stimpsoni Dall. 



Sportella constricta Conrad. 



Sportella protexta (Conrad). 



Anisodonia (Fulcrella) Carolina Dall. 



Hindsiella acuta Dall. 



Hindsiella aff. carolinensis Dall. 



Aligena ceqiiata (Conrad). 



Aligena minor Dall. 



Cardium (Trachycardium) aedalium 

 Dall. 



Cardium (Cerastoderma) acutilaquea- 

 tum Conrad. 



Cardium (Fragum) medium Linne. 



Cardium (Lcevicardium) sublineatum 

 Conrad. 



Dosinia elegans Conrad. 



Transenella carolinensis Dall. 



Gafrarium (Gouldia) metastriatum Con- 

 rad. 



Macrocallista reposta Conrad. 



Callocardia (Agripoma) sayana (Con- 

 rad). 



Pilar ia filosina Dall. 



Chione cribaria (Conrad). 



Chione (Ldrophora) latilirata (Conrad). 



Chione (Timoclea) grus Holmes. 



Venus campechiensis subsp. rileyi Con- 

 rad. 



Gemma magna Dall. 



Gemma trigona Dall. 



Tellina (Merisca) oequistriata Say. 



Tellina (Angulus) macilenta Dall. 



Tellina (Angulus) umbra Dall. 



Tellina (Angulus) dupliniana Dall. 



Strigilla eutykta n. sp. 



Metis magnoliana Dall. 



Macoma carolinensis n. sp. 



Macoyna (Psammacoma) hobnesii Dall. 



Semele carinata Conrad. 



Semele subovatasvhsp. duplinensis Dall. 



Semele subovata subsp. appressa Dall. 



Semele nuculoides (Conrad). 



Abra cequalis Say. 



Tagelus gibbus Spengler. 



Donax emmonsi Dall. 



Donax cuneola n. sp. 



Ensis directus Conrad. 



Spisula confragosa (Conrad). 



Spisula subparilis (Conrad). 



Mulinia congesta (Conrad). 



Mulinia congesta subsp. magnoliana 

 DaU. 



Labiosa lineata Say. 



Mya f arenaria Linne. 



Sphenia dubia (H. C. Lea). 



Corbula (Aloidis) caloosce Dall. 



Corbula (Cuneocorbula) incequalis Say. 



Corbula (Cuneocorbula) cuneata Say. 



Panope reflexa (Say). 



Saxicava arctica Linne. 



Gastrochcena cuneiformis Spengler. 



Choetopleura apiculata Say. 



Discinisca lugubris (Conrad). 



Drillia tricatenaria (Conrad). Plate I, fig. 2. 



Pleurotoma tricatenaria Conrad, 1834, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1st ser. vol. vii, p. 139. 



Surcula (Pleurotoma) tricatenaria Conrad, 1863, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila- 

 delphia for 1862, vol. xiv, p. 561 (name only). 



Surcula tricatenaria Conrad, 1864, Meek, Miocene Check List, Smith. Misc. 

 Coll., No. 183, p. 21 (name only). 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Descri-ption. — "Shell subulate, turrited, with longitudinal undu- 

 lations, which on each whorl of the spire are crossed by three 

 equidistant prominent spiral lines; whorls indented above; inden- 

 tations finely striated; suture margined by a carinated line; body 

 whorl with about thirteen spiral lines; aperture more than one- 

 third the length of the shell. Length, three-fourths of an inch." 

 Conrad, 1834. 



General Characters. — Shell rather large, robust. Aperture ap- 

 proximately one-third the total altitude. Whorls probably 8 to 

 10 in number, concave posteriorly, straight sided or gently convex 

 in front of the fasciole. Body smoothly contracted at the base. 

 Appression of the whorls rather marked. Suture line incon- 

 spicuous. 



Protoconch. — Apex broken away in all available material. Nu- 

 cleus apparently small. 



Scul-pture.- — External 'sculpture vigorous, both axial and spiral. 

 Axial costae rather strongly elevated, rounded, somewhat undu- 

 latory and slightly protractive, 12 to 14 in number on the later 

 whorls, persisting with undiminished strength to the anterior 

 suture but quite abruptly evanescent posteriorly at the margin 

 of the fasciole; on the body whorl, weakening a little in front of 

 the periphery and becoming obsolete before reaching the pillar 

 and, in the older forms, irregular or altogether obsolete toward the 

 aperture; intercostal areas concave, narrower than the costals. 

 Spiral sculpture of broadly arched, rather prominent, primary 

 fillets, uniform in strength on both the costal and the intercostal 

 areas, 9 to 11 in number on the ultima, 3 or 4 upon the penultima, 

 usually, though not always, equal or sub-equal in size and spacing; 

 intercalaries absent in the type but present, as a rule, to the num- 

 ber of 1, 2, or 3 between the primaries of the later whorls; posterior 

 fasciole obscurely undulated anteriorly by the axial sculpture, 

 spirally threaded with 4 to 6 fine, close-set lirae with 1 or 2 stronger 

 cords at the posterior margin, directly in front of the suture line. 

 Anterior canal sculptured with 4 to 6 crowded lirae. 



Aj)erture. — Aperture narrow, obliquely lobate, obtusely angu- 

 lated at the posterior commissure. Labrum somewhat flaring; 

 posterior siphonal notch very narrow, but rather deep. Labium 

 gently excavated at the base of the body whorl. Pillar straight, 

 moderately long, simple. Parietal wall and pillar heavily rein- 

 forced. Anterior canal rather long and broad, obtusely truncate 

 at the extremity. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 17.5 mm. Maximum diameter, 6.0 mm. 



Type Locai/^i/.— Smithfield, James River, Isle of Wight County, 

 Virginia. Yorktown Formation. 



Observations. — Drillia tricatenaria Conrad is more vigorously 

 sculptured than any of its congeners, even the closely related 

 Drillia pyrenoides Conrad. D. pyrenoides is, furthermore, a rela- 

 tively shorter, somewhat stouter shell than D. tricatenaria, with 

 a more rapidly tapering spire and a slightly shorter canal. The 

 axial costae of the former are much more nodose in character 

 than in the latter, while the spirals, both primary and secondary, 

 are fewer in number, more irregular and less prominent. Upon 

 the posterior fasciole, the spiral sculpture is often altogether obso- 

 lete, excepting for the sutural cord, which is always less prominent 

 than in D. tricatenaria. Members of this species appear under 

 such various names in the different collections that it has seemed 

 worth while to redescribe and figure the type kindly loaned for 

 the purpose by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Distribution. — St. Mary\s Formation. Sycamore, Southampton 

 County, Virginia; 8 to 9 miles and 9 to 10 miles south of Green- 

 ville, Pitt County, North Carolina. Yorktown Formation. York- 

 town, York County; Smithfield, Isle of Wight County; Suffolk 

 and 1 mile northeast of Suffolk, Nansemond County, Virginia. 

 Duplin Formation. Natural Well, 1\ miles north of Magnolia, 

 Duplin County; Lake Waccamaw, Columbus County, North 

 Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, 

 Sumter County, South Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Drillia precursor new species. Plate I, fig. 1. 



General Characters. — Shell small, polished, rather slender, ob- 

 tusely tapering. Aperture less than half the entire altitude. 

 Whorls 1\ in all, flattened laterally, the profile of the spire feebly 

 crenulated, however, by the axial ribbing. Body whorl broadly 

 rounded, rather strongly constricted at the base. Volutions very 

 closely appressed, delimited by very fine and inconspicuous sutures. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch small, obtuse. Initial turn smooth and 

 almost entirely immersed in the succeeding volution. Sculpture 

 foreshadowed by the gradual introduction of a keel on the early 

 part of the second nuclear turn, — the spirals increasing in number 

 and prominence so that the close of the whorl is sculptured with 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



4 strong lirae, the third from the posterior suture being the strong- 

 est. Dividing Hne between conch and protoconch very sharp, 

 marked by the abrupt reduction of the spiral sculpture and the 

 even more abrupt appearance of the axial sculpture. 



Sculpture. — Axiah low and rounded, 13 or 14 to a turn, least 

 prominent upon the body, obsolete upon the pillar; interaxial 

 areas broadly concave, usually wider than the axials. Spirals 

 somewhat irregular, wide, flattened, little elevated bands, separ- 

 ated by narrower interspaces, 4 or 5 in number on the earlier 

 whorls, 10 or 12 on the ultima and pillar. Posterior fasciole dis- 

 tinct, sculptured with 3 low, flat spirals separated by linear inter- 

 spaces, and with a prominent rounded thread revolving anterior 

 to the suture; a much less prominent liration also developed just 

 posterior to the suture. 



Aperture. — Aperture narrow, obliquely lenticular, acutely angu- 

 lated at the posterior commissure. Labrum broadly and feebly 

 arcuate. Siphonal notch narrow and not very deep. Labium 

 feebly convex. Pillar straight, simple. Parietal wall and pillar 

 heavily reinforced. Anterior canal short, rather broad, feebly 

 emarginate. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 7.2 mm. Maximum diameter, 3.0 mm. 



Type Locality. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — It seems quite probable that this late Miocene 

 Drillia is the ancestor of the Caloosahatchie Pliocene form, Drillia 

 piscator Dall. In general aspect, it is a more highly polished 

 shell with a less strongly defined sculpture. In detail, it differs 

 from D. piscator in the nuclear characters, the more numerous 

 axial ribs, which are more prominent especially on the ultima, 

 the narrower and more elevated spicals and the stronger and more 

 angular liration revolving anterior to the suture. 



Distrihuiion. — Duplin Formation. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Drillia sumterensis new species. Plate I, flg, 3. 



General Characters. — Shell rather small for the genus, slender, 

 tapering. Component volutions 10 in number. Whorls of spire 

 gently convex, regularly increasing in diameter. Body less than 

 half as high as the entire shell, rounded like the later whorls of 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



the spire, smoothly constricted at the base. Volutions so closely 

 appressed against each other that the suture line is undulated by 

 the costse of the preceding turn. 



Pi^otoconch.—Trotoconch. very small and smooth, twice-coiled. 

 Initial turn for the most part submerged in the succeeding volu- 

 tion. Second turn feebly inflated. Opening of conch marked 

 by the abrupt appearance of the axial sculpture. 



Sculpture.- — ^ Axial ribs 8 or 9^ to the whorl, broad and undulatory, 

 extending from the anterior margin of the fascicle to the suture 

 and, on the final volution, well down on to tL^ pillar; incrementals 

 perceptible with a hand lens. Spirals low, broad, inconspicuous 

 lirations, numbering 7 to 9 to the whorl, separated by interspaces 

 of about half their own width; fortuitous secondaries occasionally 

 intercalated; pillar threads more rounded and more prominent 

 than those behind them; fasciole well defined, feebly concave, 

 slightly corrugated by the costae, sculptured with 5 to 7 very 

 faintly impressed revolving lines and oblique incrementals. 



Aperture. — Aperture narrow, lobate, acutely angulated at the 

 posterior commissure. Outer lip gently arcuate, not sharply 

 constricted at the base of the body. Siphonal notch rather shal- 

 low, symmetrically disposed upon the fasciole. Labium excavated. 

 Pillar straight, simple. Parietal wall and pillar wash heavy. 

 Anterior canal very short, moderately broad, obtusely truncate. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 14.0 mm. Maximum diameter, 5.0 mm. 



Tijpe Locality. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — Drillia sumterensis closely approaches Mangilia 

 in delicacy of outline and ornamentation. The character of the 

 anterior canal is, however, more suggestive of Drillia. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Cancellaria tabulata new species. Plate I, flg. 9. 



General Characters. — Shell rather large and heavy, conspicuously 

 scalariform. Aperture a little more than half as high as the entire 

 shell. Conchal volutions 5 in number, widely tabulated, the 

 whorls of the spire flattened laterally, the body broadly rounded 

 and abruptly constricted at the base. Suture distinct, feebly 

 impressed, undulated by the costal of the preceding volution. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Protoconch. — Protoconch rather small, smooth, thrice-coiled, the 

 component whorls increasingly rapidly in diameter, altitude, and 

 degree of inflation. Dividing line between conch and protoconch 

 indicated by the abrupt initiation of the axial sculpture. 



Sculpture. — -Whorls of conch latticed. Axial sculpture of nar- 

 row, rounded, elevated ribs, irregularly spaced and, on the ultimar 

 and penultimar whorls, varying from 16 to 26 in number; costals 

 of spire continuous from suture to suture, strongly retractive 

 on the shoulder, weakening perceptibly posteriorly; on the ultima, 

 persisting with diminishing strength well down on to the pillar; 

 incrementals well developed. Spiral sculpture often more promi- 

 nent than the axial; lirations flat topped, well elevated threads, 

 separated by interspaces a little wider than the lirae and just 

 about equal to the intercostal areas; the spirals overiding the 

 costse at their intersection, producing a series of elevations which 

 would appear granular in a more closely sculptured shell; normal 

 number of primaries on the sides of the whorls of the spire, 3; 

 on the body and pillar, 8 to 10; anterior primary of each volution 

 following the peripheral angle; angle rounded off on the final half 

 turn and, at the aperture, almost or altogether obsolete; a single 

 secondary occurring midway between the periphery and the suture; 

 other secondaries intercalated upon the body whorl; anterior 

 fasciole threaded with 3 or 4 subequal, closely spaced lirae. 



Aperture. — Aperture rather narrow for the group, oblique. Outer 

 lip arcuate, Urate within; lirae approximately 9 in number, corre- 

 sponding in position to the secondaries on the body whorl. Col- 

 umella quite strongly excavated at the base of the body. Parietal 

 wash not sufficiently heavy to conceal the basal sculpture. Pillar 

 quite long and straight. Columellar plications narrow, oblique, 

 sub-parallel and almost equally spaced, increasing rapidly in 

 prominence from the anterior to the posterior; anterior fold mar- 

 ginal. 



Umbilicus. — An umbilical chink usually open,, though occasion- 

 ally concealed by callous. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 29.62 mm. Maximum diameter, 17.0 mm. 



Type Locality. — 5 miles northeast of Smithfield, James River, 

 Isle of Wight County, Virginia. Yorktown Formation. 



Observations. — Cancellaria tabulata is separated from the later 

 but closely allied Cancellaria conradiana Dall by the lower spire, 

 the stouter body whorl, the much wider, much more sharply defined 

 shoulder, and the more loosely reticulated sculpture. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Distribution. — Yorktown Formation. 5 miles northeast of Smith- 

 field, James River, Isle of Wight County, Virginia. Duplin For- 

 mation. Natural Well, 1^ miles north of JVIagnolia, Duplin County, 

 North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Mitra dalU new species. Plate I, figs. 4, 8, 



Mitra sp. indet., Dall, 1890, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., Philadelphia, 

 vol. iii, pt. ii, p. 93. 



Original Description. — "A single specimen too worn to name 

 was found in the Caloosahatchie marl. It has about sixteen ribs 

 and in general resembles a slender M. Wandoensis, but just below 

 the periphery of the whorl is a marked groove, channelled and 

 cutting the ribs as well as the interspaces. On the earlier whorls 

 this channel revolves a short distance behind the suture, which 

 thus appears double. This character will enable the species to 

 be recognized when perfect specimens are found. There are 

 three folds on the columella and the shell is about the size of the 

 next species. {Mitra wilcoxU.) " Dall,. 1890. 



General Characters. — Shell small, slender, terminating obtusely. 

 Aperture about one-third the total altitude. Whorls of conch 

 6| in number, fiat-sided, tabulated behind, wound about one 

 another like a bandage with the posterior edge folded under. Body 

 rather abruptly constricted at the base. Sutures deeply im- 

 pressed. 



Protoconch. — Nucleus smooth, papillate, coiled 1| times. 



Sculpture. — Axial sculpture of about 18 sharp, narrow, elevated, 

 slightly arcuate costse which persist with undiminished strength 

 from suture to suture and, on the ultima, as far as the canal. Spiral 

 lirations, for the most part, discernible only under magnification; 

 the spiral sculpture, of the apical whorls, with the exception of 

 the pre-sutural groove, confined to the intercostal areas; lirations 

 low, broad, and flattened, 5 to 8 to the whorl as a rule, separated 

 by narrower interspaces; number and character of the lirations 

 on the portion of the body whorl posterior to the impressed groove 

 similar to that of the earlier whorls; spirals much more prominent 

 anterior to the groove and visible without magnification, 4 to 6 

 in number, exclusive of those upon the canal, unequal in size and 

 strength, and for the most part, separated by linear interspaces; 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



anterior fascicle adorned with about 4 rounded, elevated, close-set 

 cords. 



Aperture. — Aperture very narrow, somewhat crescentic. Pos- 

 terior commissure well rounded. Outer lip arcuate, smooth within. 

 Columella concave, bearing 3 folds, of which the two posterior 

 are the strongest. Anterior canal short, recurved, slightly emar- 

 ginate. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 8.0 mm. Maximum diameter, 2.5 mm. 



Type Locality. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — The species is characterized not only by the spiral 

 furrow but also by the slender, tabulated outline of the whorls. 

 The type has been compared with the foi'm from which Ball's 

 description was made and there is no doubt of their identity. 

 The young of the species are stout little cones with well devel- 

 oped sculpture and an angular whorl. 



Distribution. — Yorktown Formation. Drainage ditch 1 mile 

 northeast of Suffolk, Nansemong County, Virginia. The young 

 individual collected at this locality is referred rather doubtfully 

 to this species. 



Duplin Formation. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of 

 Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Caloosahatchie For- 

 mation. Caloosahatchie River, Florida. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Mitromorpha mitrodita new species. Plate I, flg. 7. 



General Characters. — Shell very small, fusiform, the greatest 

 diameter falling at or just anterior to the median line of the shell. 

 Aperture nearly half the total altitude. Whorls of conch 4^ in 

 number, regularly increasing in diameter, those of the spire some- 

 what trapezoidal in outline, the body broadly arcuate. Sutures 

 inconspicuous, undulated by the costse of the preceding whorl. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch twice coiled. Initial turn minute, in- 

 flated, immersed only at the tip. Succeeding volution relatively 

 high, broadly convex. Opening of conch indicated by the abrupt 

 appearance of the axial and spiral ornamentation. 



Sculpture. — Axial sculpture less conspicuous than the spiral; 

 costse confined largely to the earlier whorls and tending to become 

 obsolete on the ultima and penulta, 9 to 10 in number, low, rounded, 

 and undulating, continuous from suture to suture but most promi- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



nent directly behind the anterior suture. Spirals equisized and 

 equispaced, narrow, sharp, much elevated lirse, prominent alike 

 on the costal and intercostal areas; lirations 4 in number on each 

 of the apical whorls, 12 or 13 upon the body and pillar which are 

 not well differentiated; the wider interspaces striated with fine, 

 even, close-set incrementals; fasciole indicated by the slightly 

 wider interspace between the posterior and the next succeeding 

 spiral. 



Aperture. — Aperture narrow, sinuous, acutely angulated pos- 

 teriorly. Outer lip broadly arcuate, feebly lirate within. Col- 

 umella excavated at the base of the body whorl. Parietal and 

 pillar wash rather thin. Pillar moderately long, slightly twisted, 

 bearing 2 equal, oblique, and rather feeble plications, midway 

 between the anterior and posterior canals. Anterior canal broad 

 and open, obtusely truncated at the extremity. 



Dimensions. — Altitude of type, 5.5 mm. Maximum diameter, 

 2.0 mm. Altitude of average individual, 3.7 mm. Maximum 

 diameter, 1.5 mm. 



Type Locality. — Natural Well, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Duplin ForynaUon. 



Observations. — Mitromorpha mitrodita is separated from M. 

 pyg^naea, its nearest southern relative, by the more slender out- 

 line, and the broader and less numerous costals, which, in mitrodita, 

 are not confined exclusively to the early whorls but undulate the 

 penult and even the ultima. M. smithfieldensis Olsson, the York- 

 town analogue, differs in the less numerous conchal turns, the 

 more distant axial sculpture, and the lower number of body spirals. 



Distrihution. — Duplin Formation. Natural Well, 1^ miles north 

 of Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 

 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 



The species is rare and, even when present, is so small that it 

 is easily overlooked. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Phos sloani new species. Plate I, flg. 10. 



General Characters. — Shell slender; spire greatly elevated for 

 the genus. Aperture less than two-thirds the total altitude. 

 Whorls closely appressed, almost flat, though apparently some- 

 what convex because of the greater prominence of the axial ribs 

 near the median line of the whorl. Body whorl gently rounded, 




28 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



rather sharply constricted at the base. Suture distinct, not con- 

 spicuous, gently undulated by the axial ribs of the preceding whorl. 

 Protoconch. — Protoconch"small, smooth, acutely tapering, pauci- 

 spiral, although the exact number of turns can not be determined 

 because of the decortication of the apex. 



Sculpture.- — Axial sculpture of prominent, rounded ribs and of 

 incrementals visible only under magnification; costse 7 or 8 to 

 the whorl, rounded, though sharply defined, conspicuous eleva- 

 tions, which, on the spire, persist from suture to suture, although 

 strongest on the periphery; body costse rounded on the summits, 

 the sides almost vertical, gradually flattening as they approach 

 the canal; prominence of the costse greatly increased by the pecu- 

 liar spiral lirations which cross them. Primary spirals 3 or 4 

 in number upon the whorls of the spire, broad and low and very 

 flat in the intercostal areas and on the sides of the costse; lirse 

 abruptly thickening, however, upon the summits of the costals 

 thereby throwing the intercostal areas into relief and apparently 

 increasing the elevation of the costse; secondary spiral lirations 

 narrow, flat bands less than one-half as wide as the primaries 

 and separated from them by interspaces the width of the former; 

 secondaries not increasing in prominence as they cross the axials; 

 posterior fasciole rather wide, sculptured with an anterior second- 

 ary, 2 or 3 primaries of uniform elevation and without intercalated 

 secondaries, together with a broad, pre-sutural ribbon equal to 

 the primaries in altitude and exceeding them in breadth; body 

 whorl ornamented with 12 primaries; secondaries intercalated on 

 the posterior portion but absent anteriorly; anterior fasciole dif- 

 ferentiated but not prominently keeled, sculptured with 5 to 8 

 crowded lirse. 



Aperture. — Aperture ovate-elongate. Labrum arcuate, fur- 

 nished with 8 or 9 sharp plications upon the surface. Columella 

 concave, smooth, calloused. Canal short, slightly recurved, emar- 

 ginate. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 20.7 mm. Maximum diameter, 7.2 mm. 



Type Locality. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Duplifi Formation. 



Observations. — Phos sloani is known only from Sumter County, 

 South Carolina, and is quite unlike any described form. It is 

 characterized by the peculiar, abrupt increase in the prominence 

 of the spirals as they mount the summit of the costals, so that 

 the intercostals have the appearance of being smoothly scooped. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



We have the pleasure of naming this interesting species in honor 

 of Dr. Earle Sloan, of Charleston, South Carolina, whose name 

 will always be so pleasantly associated with the development of 

 the Geological Survey of South Carolina. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 



Collections.- — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Alectrion neogenensis new species. Plate I, figs. 5, 6. 



General Characters. — Shell elevated, slender, turrited. Body 

 whorl slightly more than half the altitude. Conchal whorls 6 

 in number, feebly convex, the ultima abruptly constricted at the 

 base. Suture line distinct, slightly impressed, undulated by the 

 costals of the preceding volution. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch of 2 small, smooth, button-like whorls, 

 the earlier turn submerged in the later. 



Scidpture.— Axial and spiral sculptm-e normally initiated simul- 

 taneously; in some individuals, however, the costals apparently 

 preceding the spirals. Costals, when well established, narrow, 

 rounded, and moderately elevated, 10 to 14 in number on the 

 later volutions; for the most part, equi-size, persistent with uni- 

 form strength from suture to suture and separated by intercostals 

 of approximately equal width. Spirals regular as a rule, in size 

 and spacing, from the nucleus to the anterior canal, very low, 

 rather broad, overriding the costal and the intercostal areas with 

 uniform strength, 6 in number on the later whorls of the spire, 

 and 10 or 12 on the body,^ — the two anterior narrow, and more 

 elevated than those behind; interspirals equal to or a little nar- 

 rower than the spirals. Base of body margined by profound 

 sulcus on which the incremental sculpture is well marked. Anterior 

 fascicle bearing some half dozen crowded spirals. 



Aperture.- — Aperture not quite one-third the total altitude, 

 obliquely ovate. Outer lip sub-varicose, flaring anteriorly, though 

 abruptly contracted at the canal; inner denticles sharp little ridges 

 at right angles to the margin, uniformly spaced and about 6 in 

 number. Columellar lip sigmoidal, heavily calloused, the outer 

 margin of the callous sharply defined. A rather prominent trans- 

 verse ridge developed near the posterior commissure, and shorter 

 irregular denticles toward the anterior canal. Anterior canal 

 short, recurved, and deeply emarginate. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 12.1 mm. Maximum diameter, 6.0 mm. 

 Diameter at right angles to the maximum diameter, 5.0 mm. 



Type Locality. — Neill's Eddy Landing, 3 miles north of Cronley, 

 Columbus County, North Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. 



Observations. — The Alectrion lapontierei of Dall is quite similar 

 in outline but runs smaller, and has fewer, much narrower, and 

 more distant spirals. 



Distribution. — St. Mary's Formation. 4 miles northwest of 

 Williamston, Martin County; 1 mile west of Wilson in Hominy 

 Swamp, Wilson County, North Carolina. Yorktown Formation. 

 Yorktown, York County; 1^ miles north of Suffolk, 1 mile north- 

 east of Suffolk, and at Suffolk, | mile below the Suffolk water 

 works dam, Nansemond County, Virginia. Colerain Landing on 

 the Chowan River, Bertie County, North Carolina. Duplin 

 Formation. 2 miles below Lumberton, and 4 or 5 miles below 

 Lumberton, Robeson County, North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 

 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 

 Waccamaw Formation. Neill's Eddy Landing, 3 miles north of 

 Cronley, Columbus County, North Carolina. 



Although the type of this widely distributed little species comes 

 from the Waccamaw, it occurs most commonly in the Yorktown 

 and Duplin Formations. 



Collections.— v. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Anachis styliola new subspecies obsoleta. Plate II. flgs. 7, 9, 12. 



Gejieral Characters. — Shell moderately tall, varying quite widely 

 in degree of slenderness. Spire acute, attenuated. Aperture 

 sometimes less than one-third the total altitude. Whorls 8 to 10 

 in number, regularly increasing in size, minutely tabulated pos- 

 teriorly, the preceding volution, correspondingly undercut an- 

 teriorly. Early whorls of conch strongly carinated, the keel moving 

 forward from its initial position at approximately the median 

 horizontal, till, by the end of the first whorl, it directly overhangs 

 the suture and conspicuously coronates the succeeding turn, grad- 

 ually, however, becoming lower and less prominent, and usually 

 reduced to the normal plane of the spire by the end of the third 

 whorl. Suture distinct, inconspicuous; sulcus outlining the periph- 

 ery of the preceding whorl often visible behind it. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch smooth, including 1| to 2 whorls, the 

 first half turn largely immersed, the second quite strongly globose 

 posteriorly, becoming decreasingly convex anteriorly. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Sculpture. — Axial sculpture appearing, as a rule, on the first 

 coil of the conch in the shape of faint incremental striae, which 

 rapidly strengthen and recur at more and more regular intervals 

 until, by the beginning of the second conchal whorl, there is, in 

 the majority of individuals, a well established axial sculpture of 

 16 to 18 narrow, obtuse, slightly arcuate riblets which are uniform 

 in strength on the early whorls, from the posterior shoulder to 

 the anterior keel which they delicately crenulate; axial sculpture 

 varying in degree of development and persistence from that of 

 the A. styliola sensu stricto to an almost smooth type in which the 

 costals are reduced to feeble undulations faintly visible just pos- 

 terior to the suture line and even feebler wavelets anterior to 

 the suture. Spiral sculpture confined, as a rule, to the base of 

 the body whorl, the pillar, and the anterior canal; periphery of 

 ultima usually outlined by a shallow linear sulcus; base of ultima 

 usually sculptured with 6 to 8 low, half obsolete threads separated 

 by linear interspaces, and, in front of them, 2 less feeble, mor^ 

 widely separated spirals; lirations upon the pillar and anterior 

 siphonal canal normally 9 or 10 in number, well rounded, rather 

 prominent, and close-set; faint traces of spiral lirse visible under 

 high magnification upon other portions of the surface but nowhere 

 sufficiently strong to affect the general aspect of the shell. 



Aperture. — Aperture narrow, lenticular, angulated posteriorly. 

 Outer lip feebly arcuate, obscurely varicose in the adult forms 

 and transversely lirate within. Inner lip contracted at the base 

 of the body whorl. Parietal wall glazed, more or less corrugated 

 in harmony with the spiral sculpture; margin of reflected callous 

 sharp, and standing apart from the pillar wall. Anterior canal 

 moderately long for the genus, recurved, obliquely emarginate. 



Dimensions. — -Altitude, 16.5 mm. Maximum diameter, 4.6 mm. 



Type Locality. — -Natural Well, 1^ miles north of Magnolia, 

 Duplin County, North Carolina. Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — The diagnostic characters of the subspecies are 

 the relatively shallow sutural channel and the more or less obso- 

 lete sculpture, both axial and spiral. It is a rather common little 

 form in the Duplin of the Carolinas. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Natural Well, 1| miles north 

 of Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 

 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Anachis sumterensis new species. Plate II, figs. 2, 6. 



General Characters. — Shell small, slender, fusiform, including 

 from 6 to 7 volutions. Whorls of spire keeled and slightly over- 

 hanging. Body whorl gently and evenly rounded, approximately 

 half as high as the entire shell. Posterior margins closely ap- 

 pressed. Suture distinct. 



Protoconch. — Nucleus small, erect, sub-globular, including 1^ 

 volutions. First turn and part of second smooth. Last quarter 

 turn sculptured with very fine, microscopic, axial striations. 



Sculpture.— Axisd sculpture of about 10 longitudinal undulations 

 which are most conspicuous upon the keel, evanescing above and 

 below and becoming almost or altogether obsolete upon the ultima; 

 growth lines confined to the interspaces between the spirals. Spiral 

 sculpture abruptly initiated at the origin of the conch; lirations 

 flattened, rather broad, conspicuous alike on the costal and the 

 intercostal areas, 4 in number on the early whorls of the spire, the 

 anterior the most prominent, so strong indeed, that it forms a 

 keel which overhangs the succeeding turn; one or 2 additional 

 spirals introduced on the later volutions betw^een the keel and the 

 anterior suture; lirations on the body 6 or 7 in number, similar 

 in character to those upon the spire; interspaces approximately 

 the width of the spirals, straight-sided and misroscopically striated 

 with fine, close-set incrementals; pillar and canal adorned with 

 about double the number of lirae present upon the body whorl, 

 these lirse differing, however, from the body spirals in being nar- 

 rower, slightly rounded and much more crowded. 



Aperture. — Aperture a rounded, irregular oval, angulated pos- 

 teriorly. Outer lip strongly arcuate, faintly Urate within. Inner 

 lip excavated, thinly calloused. Canal rather short for the genus, 

 wide and open, truncate anteriorly. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 5.5 mm. Maximum diameter, 2.0 mm. 



Type Locality. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — The overhanging whorls suggest the young of 

 Anachis styliola Dall, but the former is much more angular in 

 outline and is sculptured with numerous narrow riblets and ill- 

 defined spirals while in the latter, the axial costals are relatively 

 few in number and broad and undulatory in character, while 

 the spirals are strong and regular. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Anachis anomala new species. Plate II, fig. 3. 



General Characters. — Shell small, heavy, rather stout, fusiform. 

 Volutions o| to 6, slightly convex, narrowly tabulated, rapidly 

 increasing in size. Body smoothly constricted at the base. Aper- 

 ture a little less than one-half the total altitude. Suture line 

 inconspicuous, impressed. 



Protoconch. — Apex somewhat decorticated so that is is impossible 

 to determine all of the characters of the earlier whorls. Proto- 

 conch probably small, smooth, papillate, and pauci-spiral. 



Sculpture. — First whorl of conch apparently smooth; second 

 whorl sculptured with about 16 narrow, rounded, axial riblets 

 which disappear quite abruptly on the penultima. Spiral sculp- 

 ture, for the most part, wanting though faintly impressed lines 

 may occasionally be caught on the second whorl under magnifi- 

 cation and a faint but distinct linear sulcus follows directly behind 

 the suture from the second turn to the last ; two stronger impressed 

 spirals directly in front of the periphery of the ultima; pillar and 

 canal sculptured with 9 straight sided, proximate grooves suf- 

 ficiently deep to be visible with the unaided eye. 



Aperture. — Aperture irregularly elongate. Outer lip straight, 

 somewhat flaring anteriorly, subvaricose, thickened and quinque- 

 denticulate within, — the denticles decreasing in prominence an- 

 teriorly; posterior commissure filled with callous. Labium broadly 

 constricted at the base of the body. Pillar straight, simple, heavily 

 calloused, slightly rugose near the outer margin of the wash, — 

 the rugae corresponding in position to the external sculpture. 

 Canal short, open, slightly recurved, abruptly truncate and broadly 

 emarginate anteriorly. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 5.0 mm. Maximum diameter, 2.5 mm. 



Type Locality. — Natural Well, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — Anachis anomala is doubtless a near relative of 

 the protean A. avara of Say. Though very similar in general 

 aspect and outline, the absence of an axial sculpture upon the 

 first and the last whorl is sufficient to readily differentiate it spe- 

 cifically. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Natural Well, 1| miles north 

 of Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 

 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 

 The species is rare even within the apparently restricted area 

 within which it occurs. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Pliiladelphia. 



Astyris communis new subspecies carolinensis. Plate II, fig. 11. 



General Characters. — Shell rather large for the genus, stout, 

 rudely biconic. Whorls approximately 8 in number, tapering 

 rapidly to an acute apex which is somewhat decorticated so that 

 the characters of the protoconch are obscured. Body whorl 

 between one-half and two-thirds of the total altitude, obtusely 

 angulated at the periphery excepting near the aperture where 

 it is broadly rounded and scarcely constricted. Whorls of spire 

 trapezoidal in outline. Suture impressed; edge of whorl in front 

 of it sharp, but closely appressed. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch very imperfectly preserved. 



Sculpture. — External surface unsculptured excepting for some 

 15 linear sulci upon the pillar and anterior canal. 



Aperture. — Aperture a little less than one-half the total altitude, 

 rather narrow, angulated behind. Outer lip a sinistral hook, 

 feebly emarginate posteriorly, thickened and dentate within; 

 denticles 8 in number in the type, the posterior rather smaller 

 and somewhat removed from the 7 in front of it which are equisize 

 and equispaced and extend well around the anterior curvature. 

 Columella rather sharply excavated at the base of the body, simple, 

 excepting for an obscure marginal fold. Parietal wall glazed, 

 a drop of callous deposited just in front of the posterior angle, 

 feebly rugose at the initiation of the pillar. Anterior canal straight 

 or very slightly recurved, deeply emarginate. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 13.3 mm. Maximum diameter, 6.1 mm. 



Type Locality. — Tilly's Lake, South Carolina. Waccamaw For- 

 mation. 



Observations. — The subspecies carolinensis is isolated from the 

 communis s. s. by the absence of the minute tabulation in front 

 of the suture, and the longer and straighter anterior canal. In 

 many of the collections and check-lists, forms similar to those 

 which have been included under this subspecies are listed under 

 Astyris profundi or its subspecies minor and permagna. The 

 type of profundi was dredged in eight hundred and five fathoms. 

 The body whorl is more rounded than in any of the Tertiary indi- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



viduals with which it is confusable, the nucleus has more turns, 

 and furthermore, there is a microscopically fine but very distinct 

 and regular spiral sculpture developed on the earlier whorls of 

 the conch, which has never been perceptible on any of the fossil 

 individuals. It would be indeed remarkable to find in the Ter- 

 tiary sands the representatives of a recent deep water species 

 associated with limpets, littorinas, clams and other characteristic 

 denizens of the littoral zone. There is, however, no reliable evi- 

 dence that we are in the face of any such phenomenon. The 

 type is in the Collections of the United States National Museum 

 and has been listed as Astyris 'profundi var. permagna. As per- 

 magna has never been described nor figured, the label name has 

 been abandoned in order to avoid the confusion of applying so 

 suggestive an adjective to a subspecies of approximately the same 

 dimensions as the species sensu stricto. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Natural Well, 1| miles north 

 of Magnolia, Duplin County; Lake Waccamaw, Columbus County, 

 North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. 

 Walker's Bluff, Bladen County. Neill's Eddy Landing, 3 miles 

 north of Cronley, Columbus County, North Carolina. Tilly's 

 Lake, Horry County, South Carohna. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Urosalplnx phriknos new species. Plate IV, figs. 2, 4, 6, 7. 



General Characters. — Shell of medium size, fusiform, the greatest 

 diameter falling very close to the median line. Aperture approxi- 

 mately half the total altitude. Component volutions normally 

 7 in number in the adult conch. Whorls of spire convex, obscurely 

 shouldered, decreasing rapidly in size toward the acute apex. 

 Body whorl rather abruptly constricted at the base. Posterior 

 fasciole closely appressed against the preceding volution. Suture 

 line slightly impressed, undulated. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch including 1^ small, smooth, somewhat 

 flattened whorls. First half turn partially submerged in the 

 succeeding volution. Differentiation between conch and proto- 

 conch very sharp. 



Sculpture. — Both axial and spiral sculpture initiated at the 

 beginning of the first whorl of the conch. Axial sculpture of 9 

 or 10 broad, rounded, prominent ribs which tend to evanesce 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



upon the posterior fasciole and canal; intercostal areas broadly 

 convex and approximately equal in width to the costals; incre- 

 mental sculpture consisting of minute, over-lapping lamellae most 

 conspicuous upon the fasciole, and at the intersection with the 

 spirals. Primary spirals rather low, uniform, broadly arched 

 lirations, 3 or 4 in number on the penult and 14 to 16 upon the 

 ultima and canal; secondaries regularly intercalated; tertiaries 

 rarely. 



Aperture. — Aperture rather narrow, pyriform. Labrum arcuate, 

 sub-varicose during the development of the costals; outer edge 

 often minutely crenulated; inner transverse lirations analagous 

 to external secondaries. Labium gently excavated at the base 

 of the body, somewhat thickened but not plicate at the entrance 

 to the canal. Anterior canal rather long, slightly twisted, with 

 proximate margins and a shallow terminal notch. 



Umbilicus. — Umbilical chink almost or entirely concealed by 

 the parietal callous. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 19.7 mm. Maximum diameter, 10.4 

 mm. Diameter at right angles to the maximum diameter, 9.5 

 mm. Dimensions of a less perfect individual: altitude, 23.3 mm. 

 Maximum diameter, 13.1 mm. Diameter at right angles to the 

 maximum diameter, 12.1 mm. 



Type Locality. — Natural Well, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Duplin Formation. 



Observations.- — Urosalpinx phriknos is remarkable among its 

 congeners for its relatively few but uniform and vigorous axial 

 costse. 



Distribution. — *S^. Mary's Formation. 3 miles southwest of 

 Frog Level, Pitt County. Wilson, Wilson County, North Caro- 

 lina. Duplin Formation. Natural Well, 1^ miles north of Mag- 

 nolia, Duplin County; 4 to 5 miles below Lumberton and 1\ miles 

 northeast of Fairmont, Robeson County, North Carolina. Muld- 

 row's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, 

 South Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Epitonium miildrowi new species. Plate II, flg 10. 



General Characters. — Outline slender, whorls enlarging but slowly. 

 Apex of spire broken away; remaining volutions 4^ in number, 

 convex, barely contiguous, very strongly constricted at the deeply 

 impressed sutures. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Protoconch. — Protoconch not preserved. 



Sculpture. — Axial varices equisize, 8 to the whorl; on the later 

 turns, made up of four heavy lamellse which open up slightly 

 on the medial portion of the whorl, abruptly contracting both 

 vertically and horizontally about midway between the periphery 

 of the whorl and the posterior suture, thus giving to the whorl a 

 somewhat shouldered appearance; varices continuous, fused at 

 the suture line, set somewhat obliquely so that each longitudinal 

 series describes about half a turn around the axis of the shell; 

 intervarical spaces smooth with not even a suggestion of spiral 

 sculpture. 



Aperture. — Aperture entire, sub-circular. Outer lip well rounded, 

 margined by the terminal varix, which, in the type, is equal in 

 size to the other varices of the whorl. Inner lip less strongly 

 rounded than the outer and less hea\'ily enameled. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 6.0 mm. Maximum diameter, 3.0 mm. 



Type Locality. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — Though only a single specimen has been pre- 

 served and that a mutilated one, yet the form seems sufficiently 

 distinct to warrant description. The nearest of kin among the 

 Epinonia of the area is, apparently, Epitonium sayana Dall. E. 

 muldrowi may, however, be separated at a glance by the much 

 heavier varices. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 



Collections. — Johns Hopkins University. 



Melanella bartschi new species. Plate II, fig. 1. 



General Characters. — Shell imperforate, straight, quite large for 

 the genus, elongate-conic in outline. Spire subulate, the body a 

 little more than one-third the altitude of the entire shell. Whorls 

 closely appressed, flattened, regularly increasing in size, approxi- 

 mately 15 in number. Body evenly rounded in the adults, more 

 or less obtusely angulated in the young and adolescents. Suture 

 distinct but inconspicuous. 



Protoconch. — Apex broken in all available material. 



Sculpture. — External surface smooth, polished. 



Aperture. — Aperture holostomous, obliquely sub-ovate, moder- 

 ately wide, acutely angulated posteriorly. Peristome not con- 

 tinuous. Outer lip arcuate, feebly contracted directly in front 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



of the posterior suture, expanding again away from the suture, 

 slightly patulous anteriorly. Columella quite strongly concave 

 at the base of the body. Inner lip reflexed and fused with the 

 heavy parietal wash. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 16.0+ mm. Maximum diameter, 4.2mm. 



Type Localittj. — Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — Melanella hartschi has been confused in the refer- 

 ence collections with Melanella conoidea Kurtz and Stimpson. 

 It is, however, double the size of M. conoidea, and has a relatively 

 higher and more compressed body and fewer volutions in pro- 

 portion to the altitude. The variation in relative dimensions is 

 quite wide. The young are perfect little cones, — the sides of 

 the spire sloping uniformly to the sharply angulated periphery 

 of the body. 



We have the pleasure of naming the species in honor of Dr. 

 Paul Bartsch, of the U. S. National Museum, who has so critically 

 monographed the Melanellida^ of the West Coast. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Magnolia and the Natural 

 Well, 1| miles north of Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, 

 South Carolina. 



Melanella bartschi is quite common in the Duplin of the Caro- 

 linas. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Melanella magnoliana new species. Plate II, flg. 8. 



General Characters. — Shell imperforate, straight, of moderate 

 size and moderately stout for the genus. Elongate conic in out- 

 line. Spire subulate, the body a little more than one-third the 

 total altitude. Whorls closely appressed, flattened, regularly 

 increasing in size, 12 in number, including the protoconchal turns. 

 Body whorl broadly rounded. Sutures distinct, even faintly 

 impressed toward the apex. 



Protoconch. — Nuclear turns minute, not more than 2 in number, 

 differentiated only by their very slight convexity. 



Sculpture. — External surface highly polished, entirely devoid of 

 sculpture. 



Aperture. — Aperture holostomous, rather narrow, obliquely sub- 

 ovate in outline, acutely angulated posteriorly. Outer lip feebly 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



contracted directly in front of the posterior suture, expanding 

 again away from the suture, quite strongly reflexed and patulous 

 anteriorly. Columella obliquely contracted at the base of the 

 body. Inner lip widely reflexed, fused with the parietal callous. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 7.5 mm. Maximum diameter, 2.5 mm. 



Type Locality. — Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carohna. 

 Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — Melanella magnoliana is most closely allied, 

 apparently, to Melanella eborea Conrad. It differs from the 

 latter, however, in its rather more slender outline, more numerous 

 whorls in proportion to the altitude, and the more widely 

 reflexed, and patulous anterior portion of the aperture. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Magnolia and the Natural 

 Well, 1^ miles north of Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, 

 South Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. Walker's Bluff, Bladen 

 County, North Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Strombiformis dalli new species. Plate II, fig. 5. 



Eulima (Lciostraca) rectiuscula Dall, 1890, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci. 

 Philadelphia, vol. iii, pt. i, p. 160 (ex parte). 



General Characters. — Shell imperforate, moderately tall and 

 exceedingly slender. Altitude of body approximately one-half 

 that of the entire shell. Whorls closely appressed, slightly flat- 

 tened dorso-ventrally, feebly constricted at the suture lines, 10 to 

 11 in number. Spire subulate, faintly undulated by the barely 

 perceptible medial convexity of the whorls. Body evenly and 

 very gently curved. Base and aperture very long drawn out. 

 Sutures obscure. 



Protoconch. — Nuclear turns minute, probably 2 in number, 

 differentiated only by their relative inflation. 



Sculpture. — External surface smooth, lustrous. 



Aperture. — Aperture holostomous, sub-ovate, acutely angulated 

 posteriorly. Outer lip approximately vertical, patulous and feebly 

 reflexed anteriorly. Inner lip oblique, reflexed, fused with the 

 parietal callous. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 9.8 mm. Maximum diameter, 1.95 mm. 



Type Locality. — Caloosahatchie River, Florida. Caloosahatchie 

 Formation. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Observations. — In 1889,* Dall referred to Eulima (Leiostraca) 

 stenostoma Sars, a form collected off Fernandina, Florida. In 

 1890 (see synonomy), he separated it under the name of Eulima 

 {Leiostraca) rectiuscula and united with it some forms collected 

 from the Caloosahatchie. The Tertiary shells are, however, quite 

 distinct from the recent individuals in question: the whorls of 

 the latter are much more numerous, — probably 15 in a perfect 

 specimen of the Recent shell instead of only 11 or 10 as in the 

 fossil, — and the spire includes fully two-thirds of the total altitude 

 of the shell instead of not more than half of it. 



Distribution. — Yorktown Formation. ^ mile below Suffolk water 

 works dam, Nansemond County, Virginia. Duplin Formation. 

 Natural Well, \\ miles north of Magnolia, Duplin County, North 

 Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, 

 Sumter County, South Carolina. Caloosahatchie Formation. 

 Caloosahatchie River, Florida. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Caecum fleiuingi new species. Plate IV, flg. 5. 



General Characters. — Shell a gently arcuate tube, slightly smaller 

 at the anterior end than at the posterior. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch not preserved. Plug ungulate — a min- 

 ute, dextrally truncated cone set well to the right of the median 

 vertical. 



Sculpture. — External surface smooth excepting for microscopic- 

 ally fine, irregular, incremental striae. 



Aperture. — Aperture oblique to the horizontal axis, — the margin 

 faintly, but perceptibly, contracted. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 3.8 mm. Diameter of aperture, 1.2 

 mm. Diameter of posterior extremity, 1.0 mm. 



Type Locality. — Neill's Eddy Landing, 3 miles north of Cronley, 

 Columbus County, North Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. 



Observations. — The only constant difference which separated 

 Ccecum flemingi from Ccecum virginianum Meyer, of the York- 

 town Formation, is the contraction of the anterior aperture. 

 No trace of this is discernible in any one of the many Yorktown 

 individuals examined, while, on the other hand, it is a diagnostic 

 of every perfect adult from the Duplin and Waccamaw. The 

 Yorktown forms, furthermore, run a little larger, and perhaps 



♦ Dall, 1889, Bull. U. S. National Museum, No. 37, p. 126. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



a little less arcuate. The greater dimensions will serve to 

 separate C. flemingi from the only other unsculptured species 

 of the Neocene of Virginia and North Carolina, the Caecum glahrum 

 of Montagu. 



The species is named in honor of the author of the genus. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formatio7i. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Wac- 

 camaw Formation. Neill's Eddy Landing, 3 miles north of Cron- 

 ley, Columbus County, North Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Turritella duplinensis new species. Plate II. fig. 4. 



General Characters. — Shell a uniformly tapering pyramid, rela- 

 tively more slender in the immature stages than in the adult. 

 Volutions approximately 15 in number. Earlier coils prominently 

 keeled at the periphery, the later trapezoidal, or slightly over- 

 hanging. Peripheral angle approaching a right angle. Base flat- 

 tened to slightly convex in the adult. Suture lines distinct, the 

 later whorls somewhat constricted. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch small, smooth, twice-coiled, with 

 slightly tilted tip. 



Sculpture. — Axial sculpture absent or restricted to faint, irregu- 

 lar, incremental wrinkles on the later whorls of the adult. Spiral 

 sculpture fairly constant for the genus; in a typical, half-grown 

 individual, a single, well rounded primary, situated posterior 

 to the suture line and strong enough to subcarinate the later whorls; 

 secondaries 2 in number, as a rule, the one outlining the equatorial 

 region of the whorl, the other a little behind it, the latter increasing 

 in prominence away from the apex, the former crowning the periph- 

 ery of the earlier whorls, decreasing in relative elevation anteriorly; 

 a tertiary intercalated about midway between the suture and the 

 posterior secondary, and another directly in front of the primary 

 and constituting the circumbasal lira of the ultima; quaternaries 

 sub-equal, and separated by equal interspaces, 12 to 15 in num- 

 ber, 3 between the posterior tertiary and the suture, 1 to 3 between 

 the posterior tertiary and the posterior secondary, 3 or 4 between 

 the two secondaries, 5 between the anterior secondary and the 

 primary, 1 to 3 between the primary and the anterior tertiary 

 and occasionally 1 or 2 between the anterior tertiary and the 

 suture; basal lirae 15 to 20, the majority of them fine, but with 

 coarser threads irregularly interspersed. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Aperture. — Aperture holostomous, sub-quadrate. Outer lip 

 straight. Inner lip strongly arcuate. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 24.0 mm. Maximum diameter, 6.5 mm. 



Type Locality. — Natural Well, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — Turritella duplinensis bears a strong resemblance 

 to the laterally compressed race of Turritella subannulata 

 Heilprin. It is doubtless closely related and may be a precursor. 

 It also suggests Turritella cequistriata Conrad in general outline 

 and type of sculpture, although the latter is keeled at the median 

 line of the volution, the lirations are broader, more nearly equal 

 in size, and separated by linear interspaces. 



In the single adult form in the U. S. National Museum Collec- 

 tion from the Cape Fear River, the systems have broken down 

 and the lirse are numerous, equisized, irregularly alternating, 

 and tending to concentrate on the anterior portion of the whorl. 

 This suggests the possible identity with Turritella carolinensis, 

 vaguely described and badly figured by Conrad in 1875.* It is 

 probable, however, that the latter is characterized by a rela- 

 tively broader base, and a consistently more uniform spiral sculp- 

 ture. Conrad's type is not available, unfortunately, and it seems 

 unwise to attempt to establish definite relationships between two 

 species, one of which is so ill defined. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Natural Well, 1| miles north 

 of Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 

 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. 

 Porter's Landing, Savannah River, Georgia. Waccamaw Forma- 

 tion. Neill's Eddy Landing, 3 miles north of Cronley, Columbus 

 County, North Carolina. 



Turritella duplinensis is the most abundant and characteristic 

 species of the Formation from which it has received its name. 



Collections. — TJ. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Liotia (Arene) major new species. Plate IV, flgs. 1. 3. 



General Characters. — Shell nacreous within. Large for the genus. 

 Scalar-turbinate in outline. Spire moderately elevated, scalari- 

 form. Body whorl well rounded, though pseudo-angulated by 

 the prominence and position of the spirals. Whorls 6 in number, 



*Conrad in Kerr, 1875, Rept. Geol. Survey, North Carolina, Appendix A, 

 p. 22, pi. iv, fig. 8. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



including those of the protoconch. Suture lines distinct but not 

 impressed. 



Protoconch. — Protoconch small and smooth, not sharply differ- 

 entiated from the ccnch, twice-coiled. Initial turn quite highly 

 inflated, immersed only at the tip. Succeeding volution increas- 

 ing rapidly in diameter and gradually assuming the angular out- 

 line of the whorls of the conch. Opening of conch indicated by 

 the appearance of a faint sculpture and by the sharpening of the 

 shoulder angle. 



Sculpture. — Axial sculpture absent excepting for incrementals; 

 incrementals vigorous, oblique to the sutures, most conspicuous 

 upon the shoulder at their intersection with the moniliform spirals 

 and within the umbilicus. Spiral sculpture of coarse, heavily 

 beaded lirse, 2 in number upon the earliest sculptured whorl, 

 the one outlining the shoulder, the other midway between the 

 shoulder and the anterior suture; a third lira which increases 

 rapidly in prominence until near the aperture it almost, but not 

 quite, equals those on either side, intercalated midway between 

 them; a fourth non-annulate liration emergent from behind the 

 posterior suture of the body whorl and outlining the anterior 

 margin of the periphery. Base ornamented with 4 broad, flat- 

 tened fillets, somewhat irregular in size and spacing, occasionally 

 sulcated medially, and with a fortuitous secondary introduced 

 behind the periphery. Umbilical carina very prominent, heavily 

 annulated. 



Aperture. — Aperture entire, sub-circular in outline. Outer lip 

 heavier and more broadly arcuate than the inner margin, crenu- 

 lated in harmony with the external sculpture. Pillar not rein- 

 forced. Parietal wall heavily glazed. 



Umbilicus. — Umbilicus scalariform, profound, persistent to the 

 apex of the spire, sculptured with indistinct spiral lirse and heavy 

 incrementals. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 5.7 mm. Maximum diameter, 8.7 mm. 

 Diameter at right angles to the maximum diameter, 7.5 mm. 



Type Locality. — Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — Liotia major is much the largest of any of the 

 Liotias recorded from the area under discussion, though not so 

 large as Liotia shacklefordensis Olsson, the closely related York- 

 town analogue. L. major differs from the common co-existent L. 

 gemma in the development of strong basal spirals and in the 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



absence of a sutural channel and of any radial sculpture other 

 than the incrementals. L. shacklefordensis is higher relatively 

 and differs in the details of the body sculpture. 



The shell is well protected by an outer percellanous covering, 

 which, in the best preserved individuals, completely conceals 

 the nacre within. The weathered shells are so highly iridescent, 

 however, that they are much more suggestive of Solariella than 

 of Liotia. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Not 

 uncommon. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Pandora (Clidiophora) prodromes new species. Plate IV, flgs. 9, 11, 12, 14. 



General Characters. — Shell of moderate dimensions, rather heavy, 

 compressed. Inequivalve. Strongly inequilateral. Sub-quadrate 

 in outline. Umbones very low and inconspicuous, often perforate, 

 strongly anterior. Lunula not developed. Escutcheon persisting 

 to the extremity of the posterior dorsal margin, sub-linear, sharply 

 delimited. Anterior extremity broadly rounded. Posterior ex- 

 tremity quite squarely truncate. Dorsal margin feebly convex. 

 Ventral margin broadly arcuate. Submarginal carina outlined 

 in the right valve by a linear sulcus, in the left by a sub-acute 

 ridge. Anterior area very obscurely differentiated, occupying 

 approximately one-third of the entire valve. 



Sculpture. — Radial sculpture not developed. Incremental sculp- 

 ture somewhat undulatory on the early portion of the valve, 

 laminar and crowded toward the ventral margin. 



Ligament. — Ligament internal, lodged, in the right valve be- 

 tween the middle and posterior cardinals and, in the left valve, 

 in a bilobed pit posteriorly produced along the dorsal margin. 



Dentition. — Hinge dentition robust. Anterior cardinal of right 

 valve almost entirely obsolete. Middle cardinal elongate, rhom- 

 bic, strongly and abruptly elevated. Posterior cardinal com- 

 pressed, elongate-cuneate, wedging out dorsally. Anterior cardinal 

 of left valve extending from the apex of the umbones to the anterior 

 adductor scar, uniformly elevated, widening slightly toward the 

 umbones. Posterior cardinal linear, inconspicuous, outlining the 

 anterior margin of the resilial pit. 



Muscle Impressions and Pallial Line. — Adductor impressions 

 small, slightly sunken, irregularly rotund, placed well up toward 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



the dorsal margin. Pallial line punctate, broadly arcuate, remote 

 from the ventral margin. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 33.0 mm. Latitude, 21.0 mm. Diam- 

 eter, 6.0 mm. 



Type Locality. — Yorktown, York County, Virginia. Yorktown 

 Formation. 



Observations. — Though Pandora prodromos does not occur at 

 Mayesville, the species has been described in this paper in order 

 to bring out the close relationship which apparently exists between 

 the Tertiary Pandoras of the East Coast and the Recent. In the 

 Recent, the sub-genus Clidiophora is represented south of the 

 Hatteras axis by the delicate, alate little, form, Pandora trilineata 

 Say. The northern analogue, P. gouldiana Dall, is larger, heavier, 

 and rudely rectangular in outline. The differences between the 

 northern and the southern analogues have apparently been inherited 

 from their Tertiary precursors, Pandora tuomeyi new species of 

 the Duplin and Waccamaw faunas and Pandora prodromos of 

 the Yorktown. P. prodromos is a little higher, relatively than 

 P. goiddiana Dall, and the posterior margin is not so sharply 

 constricted below the sub-marginal keel. The dentition of the 

 Tertiary species is very much heavier than that of the Recent. 

 The middle and posterior cardinals of the right valve and the 

 anterior cardinal of the left are, in P. gouldiana Dall, compressed 

 into little more than linear ridges, while in P. prodromos they are 

 decidedly heavy and robust. P. prodromos is neither so large 

 nor so heavy, however, as the co-existent P. crassidens Conrad; 

 there is no trace retained of the linear radial sculpture which 

 characterizes crassidens, and the dorsal portion of the anterior 

 cardinal of the left valve is not expanded into a well defined flange 

 as in Conrad's species. 



Distrihulion. — Yorktown Formation. Yorktown, York County; 

 \\ miles north of Suffolk, 1^ miles east of Suffolk, 1 mile northeast 

 of Suffolk, 1 mile west of Suffolk, and ^ mile below the water works 

 dam at Suffolk, Nansemond County, Virginia. Tar Ferry, on 

 Wiccacon Creek opposite Harrelsville, Hertford County, North 

 Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Pandora (Clidiophora) tuomeyi new species. Plate IV, flgs. S, 10, 13. 



Pandora trilineata Say, 1856, Tuomey and Holmes, Pleiocene Fossils South 

 Carolina, p. 76, pi. xx, fig. 13. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Not Pandora trilineata Say, 1822, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1st 



ser., vol. ii, p. 261. 

 Pandora (Clidiophora) trilineata Say, 1903, Dall, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. 



Sci. Philadelphia., vol. iii, pt. vi, p. 1519 (ex parte). 



General Characters. — Shell rather small, rather thin. Trans- 

 versely alate in outline, slightly flexuous, compressed. Inequi- 

 valve, but only to slight degree. Strongly inequilateral. Um- 

 bones very low, the apices usually perforate, strongly anterior 

 but not terminal. Lunule absent. Escutcheon sub-linear, almost 

 as long as the posterior dorsal margin, strongly angulated upon 

 its outer border. Anterior end of valve sharply rounded or ob- 

 tusely pointed. Posterior dorsal margin gently convex. Sub- 

 marginal carinas very sharp, wider and more depressed posteriorly 

 in the left valve than in the right. Ventral margin curving wing- 

 like from the anterior expansion to the posterior rostrum. Margin 

 in front of the rostrum contracted in the left valve by the ante- 

 rostral depression. Right carina outlined by a linear sulcus. 

 Anterior area between one-third and one-half the entire valve, 

 differentiated only in the left valve, and then merely by a more 

 or less obsolete, linear sulcus and the abrupt upcurving of the 

 growth lines toward the front. 



Sculpture. — Radial sculpture usually absent even in the right 

 valve. Incremental sculpture fine, irregular, often discontinuous, 

 with no very pronounced resting stages. 



Ligament. — Ligament entirely enternal; lodged in the right 

 valve, between the middle and posterior cardinals and, in the 

 left valve, in a bilobed pit, posteriorly produced beneath the dorsal 

 margin. 



Dentition. — Hinge dentition moderately robust. Anterior car- 

 dinal of right valve obsolete. Middle cardinal compressed, rhom- 

 boidal or hatchet-shaped. Posterior cardinal compressed, ob- 

 liquely produced, often acutely pointed medially or ventrally. 

 Anterior cardinal of left valve a moderately prominent ridge of 

 uniform elevation extending from the umbones to a point just 

 dorsal to the medial line of the anterior adductor. Posterior 

 cardinal linear, inconspicuous, seated upon the anterior edge of 

 the resilial pit. 



Muscle Impressions and Pallial Line. — Adductor muscle impres- 

 sions slightly sunken, irregularly rotund. Pallial line punctate, 

 non-sinuous, nearer the base anteriorly than posteriorly. 



Dim£7isions.- — Altitude, 9.5 mm. Latitude, 2L0 mm. Semi- 

 diameter (left valve), 2.0 mm. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Type Locality. — Walker's Bluff, Bladen County, North Carolina. 

 Waccamaw Formation. 



Observations. — Pandora tuomeyi has apparently been confused 

 with the recent Pandora trilineata Say, a rather smaller, and rela- 

 tively lower species, more tapering in outline posteriorly. The 

 most fundamental difference lies, however, in the dentition. In 

 general, the cardinals of the recent species are the more compressed, 

 the more produced, and the more sharply cut. In particular, 

 the inner surface of the right valve of the Tertiary form, in front 

 of the middle cardinal, is not thickened, but often feebly chan- 

 nelled; the middle cardinal is hatchet-shaped or rhomboidal and 

 shorter than the elevated laminar tooth of P. trilineata; the pos- 

 terior cardinal is shorter, heavier, and less uniform in elevation, 

 and the inequality between the two right cardinals is much more 

 marked in the fossil than in the recent species. In the left valve, 

 the resilial pit in tuomeyi is broader and less produced, and the 

 cardinal upon its anterior margin, shorter and less sharp; the left 

 cardinal in P. trilineata has strongly defined margins, bears a 

 flange upon the dorsal half of its inner surface, and terminates 

 ventrally near the dorsal end of the anterior adductor impression; 

 the anterior cardinal of tuomeyi, on the other hand, suggests much 

 more strongly a kinship to the sub-genus Kennerleyia; its anterior 

 limit is often ill-defined, and the hiatus between such a tooth and 

 the incurved and calloused surface of the anterior margins of 

 Kennerleyia is not great; the cardinal in tuomeyi, furthermore, is 

 not expanded dorsally into a flange, and is placed forward so that 

 its ventral termination is at the medial line of the adductor im- 

 pression. 



The young of Pandora carassidens Conrad, while similar in 

 dentition, are relatively higher, less alate, heavier, and less com- 

 pact in shell texture, and show a very much stronger tendency 

 toward radial sculpture in the right valve. 



Distribution. — Duplin Formation. Darlington, Darlington 

 County; Muldrow's Mills, 5 miles southeast of Mayesville, Sum- 

 ter County, South Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. Walker's 

 Bluff, Cape Fear River, Bladen County, North Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Strigilla eutykta new species. Plate III. figs. 4, 8. 10. 



General Characters. — Shell sub-orbicular, slightly oblique, in- 

 equilateral, moderately inflated in the umbonal region. Anterior 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



end evenly rounded from umbone to base. Posterior end some- 

 what obliquely produced and obscurely truncate dorsally, rounded 

 laterally. Base very gently curved. Umbones inconspicuous, 

 opisthogyrate, placed a little in front of the median line. Lunule 

 rather narrow, clearly delimited. Escutcheon narrow, somewhat 

 elongated. 



Sculpture. — External sculpture typical of the genus in general 

 character. Posterior portion of the valve slightly depressed but 

 not angulated, sharply differentiated, however, by the discrepant 

 ornamentation. Medial and anterior positions covered with fine, 

 chiselled grooves which extend from the boundary line of the 

 posterior area and from the ventral margin obliquely upward 

 and forward to the umbones and anterior margin. Grooves of 

 posterior area arranged in crowded concentric chevrons with a 

 high apical angle directed toward the umbones. 



Ligaineni.— internal characters as in Strigilla flexuosa Say. 

 Ligament external, opisthodetic. 



Dentition. — Right valve armed with a very small, simple, an- 

 terior cardinal, a much more prominent bifid posterior cardinal, 

 and a strong, posterior and anterior lateral. Dentition of left 

 valve reduced to a moderately stout anterior, and a very slender, 

 laminar, posterior cardinal. Dorsal margins slightly modified to 

 function as laterals. 



Muscle Impressions and Pallial Line. — Muscle impressions indis- 

 tinct. Anterior somewhat more elongated than the posterior. 

 Pallial line rarely discernible, its dorsal margin a low arch extend- 

 ing from the ventral boundary of one adductor to the ventral 

 boundary of the other, rising a little higher in the left valve than 

 in the right, but not even in its maximum elevation overreaching 

 the medial line of the adductors. 



Dimensions.- — Altitude of type, 10.7 mm. Latitude, 11.0 mm. 

 Semi-diameter, 3.3 mm. Altitude of other figured individuals, 

 10.1 mm.; 8.7 mm. Latitude, 10.5 mm.; 9.3 mm. Semi-diameter, 

 2.8 mm.; 2.2 mm. 



Type Locality. — Walker's Bluff, Cape Fear River, Bladen County, 

 North Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. 



Observations. — Representatives of this species have formerly been 

 included under Strigilla flexuosa Say. Say's type is not avail- 

 able at present nor does he give a specific locality. From a com- 

 parison of his description and the recent material in the reference 

 collections in the National Museum, it seems probable that the 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



type comes from off the eastern coast of Florida or from the Baha- 

 mas. These forms are more convex than Stngilla eutykta, more 

 inequilateral, less rounded, and shorter anteriorly, and are sculp- 

 tured posteriorly with a fine zigzag grooving instead of the elongated 

 cone-in-cone of the new species. There is a considerable degree 

 of variation among the recent forms, but the characters hold 

 constant for any one general localit3^ In the shells from off the 

 west coast of Florida the sculpture is approximately uniform over 

 the entire valve. It is possible that even among the recent faunas, 

 the species has not been sufficiently restricted. The species fig- 

 ured on Plate iv, fig. 9, is from Cape Florida, Catalogue Number 

 93380 of the U. S. National Museum Collection. 



Distrihution. — St. Mary^s Formation. 2\ miles northwest of 

 Williamston, Martin County, North Carolina. Duplin Forma- 

 tion. Natural Well, 1| miles north of Magnolia, Duplin County; 

 4 miles north of Lumberton, 2 miles below Lumberton, 4 to 5 

 miles below Lumberton, Fairmont (Ashpole), 1\ miles northeast 

 of Fairmont, Robeson County; Lake Waccamaw, Columbus 

 County, North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast 

 of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Marks Head 

 Marl. Porter's Landing, Screven County, Georgia. Waccamaw 

 Formation. 4 miles south of Elizabethtow^n on Hammond Creek, 

 and at Walker's Bluff on the Cape Fear River, Bladen County; 

 Neill's Eddy Landing, 3 miles north of Cronley, Columbus County, 

 North Carolina. Caloosahatckie Formation. Caloosahatchie River 

 and Shell Creek, Florida. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Donax cuneola new species. Plate III, figs. 1, 3. 



General Characters. — Shell small, ventricose, inequilateral, cune- 

 ate. Umbones posterior, opisthogyrate, inflated and fairly con- 

 spicuous for the genus. Anterior margin obliquely truncated. 

 Posterior margin rounded. Base line straight or very slightly 

 contracted in front of the posterior keel which is clearly defined, 

 as a rule, by an elevated ray. Anterior area often feebly differ- 

 entiated by an ill-defined rostrum. 



Sculpture. — Radial sculpture fine and faint, much more con- 

 spicuous in forms from which the periostracum has been eroded. 

 Basal serration sharp. 



Ligaynent. — Ligament short, external, opisthodetic. 

 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Dentition. — Hinge heavy for the genus and astonishingly variable 

 within the limits of the species. Anterior cardinal of the right 

 valve laminar, almost or entirely obsolete, the posterior trigonal 

 and very strong. Cardinals of the left valve equal size and fairly 

 strong. Laterals heavy, two in number in each valve. 



Muscle hnpressions and Pallial Line. — -Anterior muscle impres- 

 sion rather small, cuneate, rounded ventrally. Posterior muscle 

 impression rotund. Pallial line and sinus often obscure, the sinus 

 very broad and deep, partially confluent ventrally with the pallial 

 line. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 6.4 mm. Latitude, 10.0 mm. 



Type Locality — Neill's Eddy Landing, Columbus County, North 

 Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. 



Observations — The most closely allied species is Donax emmonsi 

 Dall. From this form, Donax cuneola is separated by the higher, 

 more tumid umbones, the more oblique anterior, the more rounded 

 posterior and the straighter ventral margin, the faintlj^ indicated 

 anterior angulation, the more strongly differentiated posterior 

 area, and the heavier, more compact hinge teeth From Donax 

 fossor Say, it is distinguished by the relatively greater altitude, 

 the more nearly central umbones, and the less produced anterior 

 margin. 



Distribution.— Y or Jdown Formation. Yorktown, York County; 

 1| miles northeast of Suffolk, Nansemond County, Virginia. Dup- 

 lin Formation. 4 miles northeast of Fairmont, Robeson County, 

 North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles southeast of Mayes- 

 ville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. 

 Walker's Bluff, Cape Fear River, Bladen County; Neill's Eddy 

 Landing, 3 miles north of Cronley, Cape Fear River, Columbus 

 County, North Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Macoma carolinensis new species.. Plate III, flgs. 5, 6, 7. 



General Characters. — Shell thin. Liflated. Irregularly ovate, 

 with a very feeble posterior flexure. Slightly inequivalve, the 

 right valve a little higher than the left. Inequilateral. Anterior 

 dorsal slope gentle, merging gradually into the broadly rounded 

 anterior end. Posterior end blunt. Anterior dorsal and ventral 

 margins usually converging at a very low angle in the right valve, 

 parallel in the left. Posterior dorsal margin declining much more 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



rapidly than the anterior. Ventral margin approximately straight 

 medially, slightly upcurved distally. Umbones low, opisthogyrate, 

 situated a little behind the median line. 



Sculpture. — External surface smooth except for feeble incre- 

 mentals. Faint traces of radial color markings also visible. 



Ligament. — Ligament external, opisthodetic, seated on a narrow 

 and elongated nymph. 



Dentitio7i. — Dentition as in Alacoma virgvniana Conrad. An- 

 terior cardinal of the right valve simple and stout. Posterior bifid 

 and relatively slender. In the left valve a bifid, relatively heavy 

 anterior, and a simple, sub-laminar posterior cardinal. 



Muscle hnpressions and Pallial Line. — Interior faintly striated 

 radially. Anterior muscle impression elongated. Posterior semi- 

 elliptical. Pallial sinus deep, projected more than two-thirds of 

 the distance forward toward the anterior margin, confluent ven- 

 trally with the pallial line for about one-half its length, its dorsal 

 margin, in the right valve, bowed upward perceptibly beneath 

 the umbones; in the left valve, apparently much more nearly 

 parallel to the base. 



Dimensions. — Right valve. Altitude, 12.3 mm. Latitude, 18.2 

 mm. Semi-diameter, 4.3 mm. Left valve, of another individual. 

 Altitude, 12.5 mm. Latitude, 19.5 mm. Semi-diameter, 3.3 mm. 



Type Locality. — Darlington, South Carolina. Duplin Forma- 

 tion. 



Observations. — Macoma carolinensis is the analogue in the Neo- 

 gene south of the Hatteras axis of Macoma virginiana and its sub- 

 species conradi north of the axis. It is rather higher, less 

 flexuous, and more nearly equilateral than either of the former, 

 both by reason of the more nearly central umbones and the greater 

 similarity of the anterior and posterior extremities. The posterior 

 dorsal margin of M. carolinensis has a uniform, fairly steep slope, 

 while that of M. virginiana is slightly contracted directl}' behind 

 the umbones, then obliquely produced at a very low angle. The 

 posterior lateral margin of the former is rounded into the slightly 

 upturned base, that of the latter, obscurely truncated and its ven- 

 tral margin more strongly recurved. The pallial sinus in both spe- 

 cies varies quite widely but that of carolinensis is, on the average, 

 more profound, and more strongly arched beneath the umbones. 



The species is rare in the Duplin and Waccamaw Formations of 

 North and South Carolina. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Distribution. — Duplin Formatio7i. 2 miles below Lumberton, 

 Robeson County, North Carolina. Darlington, Darlington Coun- 

 ty; Muldrow's Place, 5 miles south east of Mayesville, Sumter 

 County, South Carolina. Waccamaw Formation. Mrs. Guion's 

 marl pit, Cape Fear River, Columbus County, North Carolina. 



Collections. — U. S. National Museum. Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Mulinia magnoliana Dall. Plate III, fig. 2. 



Spisula (Hemimactra ?) magnoliana Dall, 1898, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. 

 Sci. Philadelphia, vol. iii, pt. iv, p. 899, pi. xxvii, fig. 29. 



Original Description. — "Shell small, equilateral, somewhat com- 

 pressed, with small, little-elevated, pointed, adjacent beaks; sur- 

 face smooth except for lines of growth and a feeble angulation ex- 

 tending backward from the umbo to the lower posterior margin; 

 ends nearly equally rounded, the posterior slightly more pointed, 

 the base moderately and evenly curved; pallial sinus small, angular, 

 very short; hinge normal, feeble, with short, granulose laterals. 

 Lon. 17, alt. 11, diam. 7 mm." Dall, 1898. 



Type Locality. — Magnolia, Duplin County, North Carolina. 

 Duplin Formation. 



Observations. — In the unique valve, which was selected as the 

 type of Spisula magnoliana Dall, the cardinal margin has been 

 broken away, and the edges so perfectly rounded by erosion, 

 that all traces of the characteristic ligamentary attachment of 

 the Mulinia have been obliterated and replaced by a pseude- 

 Spisuloid attachment. This fact was established by the exam- 

 ination of fresh individuals in which the septum had been recently 

 chipped away. 



The subspecies is separated from the closely related protean con- 

 gesta by the lower, more regularly oval and elongate valves, the less 

 prominent umbones and the short, rather heavy laterals. 



Distribution. — *S^. Mary^s Formation. South Quay, Nansemond 

 County, Virginia. 3^ miles below Palmyra Bluff, Halifax County; 

 8 to 9 miles south of Greenville, Pitt County; 1 mile north of 

 Castoria, Greene County, North Carolina. Yorktown Formation. 

 Rock Landing, Craven County, North Carolina. Duplin Forma- 

 tion. 10 miles south of Clinton, Sampson County, Natural Well, 

 ^ mile north of Magnolia, Duplin County; 2 miles below Lumber- 

 ton, Robeson County, North Carolina. Muldrow's Place, 5 miles 

 southeast of Mayesville, Sumter County, South Carolina. Bruns- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



wick River bed, Brunswick, Glynn County, Georgia. Waccamaw 

 Formation. Walker's Bluff, Bladen County, Neill's Eddy Land- 

 ing, 3 miles north of Cronley, Columbus County, North Carolina. 

 Collections. — U. S. National Museum (type. Catalogue Number 

 115080). Johns Hopkins University. 



Explanation of Plates I, II, III and IV. 



Plate I. — Fig. 1. — Drillia precursor n. sp. (X8) 

 Fig. 2. — Drillia tricatenaria Conrad. (X4) 

 Fig. 3. — Drillia sumterensis n. sp. (X4) 

 Fig. 4:.—Mitra dalli n. sp. (X8) 

 Fig. 5. — Alectrion neogenensis n. sp. (X5) 

 Fig. 6. — Ale?trion neojenensis (Xo) 

 Fig. 7. — Mitromorpha mitrodita n. sp. (X7) 

 Fig. 8. — Mitra dalli n. sp. ( X7) 

 Fig. 9. — Cancellaria tabulata n. sp. (X2) 

 Fig. 10. — Phos sloani n. sp. (X3) 



Plate II. — Fig. 1. — Melanella bartschi n. sp. (X3) 



Fig. 2. — Anachis sumterensis n. sp. Apical view. (XlO) 



Fig. 3. — Anachis anomala n. sp. (X6) 



Fig. 4. — Turritella duplinensis n. sp. (X2) 



Fig. 5. — Strombiformis dalli n. sp. (X6) 



Fig. 6. — Anachis sumterensis n. sp. (X8) 



Fig. 7. — Anachis styliola n. subsp. obsoleta. Type. (X4) 



Fig. 8. — Melanella magnoliana n. sp. (X8) 



Fig. 9. — Anachis styliola n. subsp. obsoleta. Stout form. (X4) 



Fig. 10. — Epitonium muldrowi n. sp. (X8) 



Fig. 11. — Astyris communis n. subsp. carolinensis. (X3) 



Fig. 12. — Anachis styliola n. suhsp. obsoleta. Stout form. (X4) 



Pl.\te III. — Fig. 1. — Donax cuneola n. sp. Exterior of right valve. (X3) 



Fig. 2. — Mulinia magnoliana Dall. Interior of left valve. After Dall. 



.(X2.5) 

 Fig. 3. — Donax cuneola n. sp. Interior of right valve. (X3) 

 Fig. 4. — Strigilla eutykta n. sp. Exterior of right valve of type. (X4) 

 Fig. 5. — Macoma carolinensis n. sp. Exterior of right valve of type. (X3) 

 Fig. 6. — Macoma carolinensis n. sp. Interior of right valve of type. (X3) 

 Fig. 7. — Macoma carolinensis n. sp. Interior of left valve. (X3) 

 Fig. 8. — Strigilla eutykta n. sp. Interior of left valve. (X4) 

 Fig. 9. — Strigilla Jlexuosa Say . Exterior of left valve. (X4) 

 Fig. 10. — Strigilla eutykta n. sp. Interior of right valve. (X4) 

 Plate IV. — Fig. 1. — Liotia (Arene) major n. sp. Profile. (X4) 

 Fig. 2. — Urosalpinx phriknos li. sp. Apical view. (X6) 

 Fig. 3. — Liotia (ArcTie) major n. sp. Basal view. (X4) 

 Fig. 4. — Urosalpinx phriknos n. sp. (X2) 

 Fig. b. — Caecum flemingi n. sp. (X6) 



Fig. 6. — Urosalpinx phriknos n. sp. Profile of apex. (X6) 

 Fig. 7. — Urosalpinx phriknoi. Apertural view. (X2) 



Fig. 8. — Pandora (Clidiophora) tuomeyi n. sp. Interior of right valve. ( X2) 

 Fig. '^.—Pandora (Clidiophorj) prodromos n. sp. Exterior of right valve. 



.(XI) 

 Fig. 10. — Pandora (Clidiophora) tuomeyi n.sp. Exterior of left valve. (X2) 

 Fig. 11. — Pandora (Clidiophora) prodromos n. sp. Exterior of left valve. 



.(XI) 

 Fig. 12. — Pandora (Clidiophora) prodromos n. sp. Interior of right valve. 



.(XI) 

 Fig. 13. — Pandora (Clidiophora) tuomeyi n.sp. Interior of left valve. (X2) 

 Fig. 14. — Pandora (Clidiophora) prodromos n. sp. Interior of left valve. 

 (XI) 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 18. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "A Study of the Orthopterous Genus Mer- 

 miria Stal", by James A. G. Rehn, was presented for publica- 

 tion. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Charles J. Bender. 

 Francis A. Cunningham. 



The death of Raphael Blanchard, a correspondent, was also 

 reported. 



Oyster Farms of Delaware Bay. — Dr. Pilsbry spoke of the oj^ster 

 industry of Delaware Bay, illustrating his remarks with photo- 

 graphs taken mainly on Maurice River, New Jersey. The processes 

 of oyster cultivation were described. In Maurice River Cove the 

 beds are seeded from oysters dredged in deeper parts of the Bay, 

 but probably reproduction on the spot is the chief source of the 

 supply. On mud bottom a cultch of oyster shells is first scattered.- 

 This is not necessary on sand or gravel bottom. The situation of 

 these beds, remote from any source of sewage, insures a whole- 

 some food supply, free of pathologic bacteria. The processes and 

 apparatus of dredging, freshening ("drinking"), and culling were 

 shown by lantern illustrations. In the autumn months the oysters 

 cannot remain in the floats, in which they absorb fresh water, 

 more than 24 hours. At the time of the speaker's visit (January), 

 about 400 schooners were in commission. 



The subject was further discussed by the President, who had 

 long been interested in the development of this industry, and by 

 Dr. Henry Skinner. 



The following was ordered to be printed. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



A STUDY OF THE ORTHOPTEROUS GENUS MERMIRIA STAL 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN 



For a number of years we have found that any attempt to make 

 determinations in this genus from the basis of the last revisionary 

 treatise published upon, it, that by Scudder in 1899, led us into 

 difficulties, some clearly evident, others more subtle and then 

 not possible of correction. In order to clear up the situation, 

 Mr. Morgan Hebard and the author, in the course of extensive 

 field work on the North American Orthoptera, have paid particular 

 attention to this genus, as a result of which a most extensive series 

 has been made accessible for study. 



Within the last five years or so we have received an added incen- 

 tive for making a comprehensive taxonomic, variational and dis- 

 tributional study of the genus Mermiria, in that we have had the 

 pleasure and profit of association with Dr. C. E. McClung, who 

 has made extensive studies on the chromosomes in this genus. 

 From his work he was able to point out certain evident differentia- 

 tions, which our studies show to be reflected in the external mor- 

 phological features, and it was his earnest desire that a good taxo- 

 nomic groundwork be laid for future work, cytological as well 

 as morphological. 



The author owes much to the encouragement and assistance 

 of Dr. McClung in the preparation of this paper, the assistance 

 being of a practical character, as the basic sorting of the whole 

 series studied was made by him in intervals between his official 

 duties, and the first draft of a key to the species was also drawn 

 by him. The cordial cooperation and valued suggestions given 

 by him have made easier some of the irksome portions of the 

 examination and analysis of the really large series on which this 

 paper is based. We are also indebted to our colleague, Mr. Hebard, 

 for numerous suggestions and kindly criticisms, as well as unre- 

 stricted use of his collection. 



MERMIRIA Stal 



1839. Opsomala Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. .586. (Part.) 

 1870. Opoinola Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, p. 77. (Error 

 for Opsomala.) 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



1873. Mermiria StM, Recensio Orthopt., i, p. 102. [M. belfragii St&I.] 



1877. Mermiria Scudder, Proc. Boston Soo. Nat. Hist., xix, p. 30. 



1890. Mermiria Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, p. 53. 



1897. Mermiria McNeill, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi, pp. 195, 203. 



1899. Mermiria Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxxv, p. 41. 



1904. Mermiria Bruner, Biol. Cent. -Amer., Orth., ii, pp. 26, 37. 



1904. Papagoa Bruner, Ibid., ii, pp. 27, 42. [P. arizonensis Bruner.] 



Genotype: M. belfragii Stal { = Opomala neo-mexicana Thomas). 

 Type by monotypy. 



Position of Genus. — The genus Mermiria is the sole member 

 of the group Mermiriae. The other genus placed in that group 

 by Brunner, 1893, was Syrhula, and this has no close affinity with 

 Mermiria, being instead a member of the group Amblytropidiae.' 

 No affinity exists with any of the typical Hyalopterygine genera, 

 such as Hyalopteryx, Achurum, Eutruxalis, Truxalis and Radi- 

 notatum, but considerable resemblance and some real relationship 

 is evident with Pseudopomala, which is an aberrant Hyalopterygid, 

 probably connecting the latter group with the Mermiriae. The 

 genus Acantherus is not allied and jits affinities are clearly with 

 the Orphulellse or the Amblytropidiae, or perhaps both. 



The exact position of the Mermiriae in the sub-family Acridinae 

 remains to be determined, and then only after a comprehensive 

 study of the known genera, but it is evident that its development 

 was probably from a Hyalopterygine stock, possibly through 

 Pseudopomala, and the Mermiriae should, at least, be kept in the 

 general neighborhood of the Hyalopteryges. 



Generic Description. — Form typically Truxaloid, elongate, alate. 

 Head with facial line decidedly retreating: fastigio-facial angle 

 evident: fastigium produced, angulate to rounded, weakly or not 

 at all carinate, weakly or moderately impressed: lateral foveolae 

 obsoletely to appreciably indicated, sub-ventral in position, not 

 visible from the dorsum: frontal costa sharply indicated, con- 

 tinuous, in part at least sulcate: lateral facial carinas promi- 

 nent, diverging ventrad: eyes ovoid to ovoid-elliptical, axis dorso- 

 cephalad to ventro-caudad, moderately prominent from dorsum: 

 antennae ensiform, deplanate. Pronotum longitudinal, median 

 carina indicated, with or without lateral carinae: lateral lobes 

 normal, with or without supplementary longitudinal carinae at 

 middle, ventral margin of lateral lobes distinctly or scarcely thick- 

 ened: caudal margin of disk arcuate or angulate; prozona of dorsum 



1 This is very evident after making comparisons of Syrbula with a number of 

 genera of the Amblytropidiae. It is clearly not far removed from Leurocerus 

 and Amhlylropidia. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 57 



always longer than metazona. Tegmina and wings fully devel- 

 oped. Prosternum with low median protuberance or slight trans- 

 verse ridge: mesosternal lobes separated by a distinct interspace 

 or subattingent : metasternal lobes separated by a narrow interspace 

 to attingent. Subgenital plate of cf very bluntly, moderately 

 or strongly conoid produced, hardly compressed. Cephalic and 

 median limbs short, slender. Caudal femora moderately robust 

 to slender, genicular lobes and angles not produced; caudal tibiae 

 with spines of external margin more numerous than those of inter- 

 nal margin. - 



Classification. — ^The features of greatest value in differentiating 

 the species of the genus are almost entirely structural, although 

 several color features are of relative, or even, in one case in one 

 sex, of primary importance. The most important feature, and 

 one which shows no intra-specific variation in this genus, is the 

 presence or absence, and strength when present, of lateral pronotal 

 carinse. In all but intertexta there can be no question of the 

 presence or absence of these structures, while in intertexta they are 

 weakly indicated. In certain species there is found, bordering 

 ventrad the paired dark lateral bars on the postocular region of 

 the head and the lateral lobes of the pronotum, a strumose line 

 or carina. This is distinctly indicated in texana and alacris, and 

 incompletely and weakly so in neo-mexicana and intertexta. The 

 lateral foveolae of the vertex are of taxonomic importance in the 

 depth of their indication, but there is some variation in this feature. 

 The general form of the fastigium, of the fastigio-facial angle 

 and the angle of the facial line are of value, but there is much 

 variation in the exact degree of these features, particularly in 

 that of the form of the fastigium. The proportion of length to 

 depth of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is a feature which has 

 considerable importance. The very slender or the average form 

 of the caudal femora are also features of value, but there is much 

 individual variation in that considered average, although the very 

 slender type is more constant. The antennae show certain specific 

 types which, however, are very difficult to compare satisfactorily. 

 The general form, whether average or very slender, is also an 

 important feature in this genus. We find so little wing length 

 variation that the relative form remains approximately uniform 

 within each species. 



- These are so variable in number (at least 15 to 24 on external, and 14 to 20 

 on internal margin) that they cannot be used as diagnostic features for the 

 genus. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The diagnostic features given by Scudder in the key of his study 

 of the genus are largely valueless, extensive series exhibiting clearly 

 their variability. In a few cases their importance is relative, 

 but not primary. 



Morphological Variational Notes. — Probably the most striking 

 feature of variation in the external morphology of the species of 

 this genus is in the form of the fasti gium, when viewed from the 

 dorsum. Practically the only satisfactory method of comparison 

 in the variation of this feature is to measure the angle, and the 

 extremes have been figured and discussed under each species. 

 The folly of using a feature of this sort in a strictly diagnostic 

 sense is evident when it is known that certain species show varia- 

 tions of from 33° to 65° (alacris), 52° to 84° (inter texta) , and 62° to 

 87° {maculipennis maculipennis and mac. macclungi) in the male 

 sex, and 42° to 70°, 80° to 95°, and 65° to 95° respectively in the 

 female sex. In addition to the exact angle there is much varia- 

 tion in the curvature or relative straightness of the margins them- 

 selves. The facial line shows occasional variation from the specific 

 type, but these are generally geographic. The frontal costa varies 

 much in its degree of sul cation and also in exact form, so much 

 so that we prefer to dispense with it as a diagnostic feature. The 

 form of the frontal costa, its exact width and relative depth are 

 so variable that no great weight can be attached to these features. 

 As we have already mentioned under "Classification," there is 

 a very considerable amount of variation in the form of the caudal 

 femora. Those species having the more slender type of caudal 

 femora show less of such variation than the species having nor- 

 mally more robust and less attenuate femora. 



There is a considerable amount of geographic variation in pro- 

 portions and form, this being particularly apparent in southern 

 Arizona material of 7naculipennis and neo-mexicana. In size, in 

 addition, there is a very decided amount of geographic variation, 

 the details of which are given under the individual species. 



Color Pattern. — The basic color pattern of the genus is found 

 in all the species, i. e. a pale base color, of a green, greenish- yellow, 

 brownish or ochraceous tone, with a pair of dark postocular bars 

 extending across the postocular portion of the head, the dorsal 

 section of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, thence spreading 

 out and to a greater or lesser degree continued as a narrow line 

 on the pleura, and intensively coloring the marginal and discoidal 

 fields of the tegmina. In addition there is frequently a medio- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



longitudinal dorsal dark bar of variable strength and complete- 

 ness, this always indicated in texana and carried over the anal 

 field of the tegmina, leaving the anal angle pale. This medio- 

 longitudinal line may be merely a lining of the median carina 

 of the pronotum, or a pair of arcuate lines on the head. The 

 tegmina in certain species (i. e., hivittata and both races of maciili- 

 pennis) may show a maculate pattern of variable intensity. In 

 all the species except M. hivittata the tegmina show a decided 

 pale subcostal line on the proximal half in both sexes, while in 

 hivittata the male sex is without such a line, although the female 

 is marked as in the other species. In M. neo-mexicana and alacris 

 the pale subcostal line broadens out into a wash which colors a 

 very considerable portion of the tegmina, but its correlation with 

 the subcostal line is evident. Occasionally the pale subcostal 

 line is weak, but we have never seen it absent in any individuals 

 but males of hivittata. The dark postocular lateral bars on the 

 pronotum encroach upon the dorsal surface of the pronotum in 

 numerous individuals of maculipennis, and in texana, neo-mexicana 

 and alacris the dark postocular bars are bordered with yellowish. 

 The lateral facial carinas are similarly marked in the same species, 

 and the face is variably infuscate in texana, neo-mexicana, alacris 

 and intertexta. 



Groups. — The genus comprises three groups, which at first 

 glance appear more different than a detailed analysis indicates. 

 One of these contains texana alone, another is made up of neo- 

 mexicana and alacris, with intertexta an aberrant member approach- 

 ing the third group, which is composed of hivittata and maculipennis. 

 If the features separating these groups were more decided, or 

 their differentiation more clearly indicated, it would be advisable 

 to use subgeneric names for them, but this is not desirable, owing 

 to the relatively slight divergence of the species, judging from 

 external morphological features. 



The groups and their chief features are: 



Group A (texana) Form relatively robust. Lateral fove- 



olse .obsolete. Antennae moderately 

 heavy. Pronotum short. Lateral 

 carinae of pronotum distinct, diverg- 

 ing caudad. Supplementary carinae 

 on lateral lobes of pronotum distinct. 

 Caudal limbs relatively robust. (Col- 

 oration distinctive.) 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maich, 



,neo-mexicana\ Form slender, elongate. Lateral fove- 



Group B I alacris > olae weakly indicated. Antennae 



' intertexta J very heavy. Pronotum elongate. 



Lateral carinae of pronotum distinct 

 or incompletely indicated {intertexta) , 

 faintly if at all divergent caudad. 

 Supplementary carinae on lateral 

 lobes of pronotum distinctly (alacris) 

 or weakly {neo-mexicana and inter- 

 texta) indicated. Caudal limbs elong- 

 ate, slender. 



/-I p jhivittata \ Form less slender than in Group B, 



^ [maculipennisl more attenuate than in Group A. 



Lateral foveolae indicated to a greater 

 (macuUpennis) or lesser (bivittata) de- 

 gree of completeness. Antennae 

 heavy. Pronotum short. No lat- 

 eral carinae on pronotum. No sup- 

 plementary carinae on lateral lobes of 

 pronotum. Caudal limbs relatively 

 robust. 



We feel quite confident that Groups A and B are the more primi- 

 tive ones, but which of these two is closer to the ancestral type 

 is difficult to say. In some ways texana appears the more general- 

 ized, in others alacris and neo-mexicana, with intertexta clearly 

 a more advanced type. We feel, however, that, as texana repre- 

 sents a divergence from the type species {neo-mexicana) in anti- 

 thetical characters from Group C, a clearer presentation of the 

 interspecific relationship is shown by arranging the species as 

 done herein. 



Distribution of the Genus. — From southern New Jersey (inter- 

 texta), central Illinois (neo-rnexicana and macuUpennis macclungi), 

 Iowa (neo-mexicana, bivittata and maculipennis macclungi) , Missouri 

 River region of North Dakota (neo-mexicana), and eastern Mon- 

 tana (Forsyth — maculipennis maccluiigi) ; south to the Florida Keys 

 (intertexta), the Gulf Coast (bivittata, alacris and maculipennis 

 maculipennis), southern Texas (Mission and Lyford — maculipennis 

 maculipennis), central Coahuila [Monclova] and northern Durango 

 [Lerdo), Mexico (texana), and southern Arizona (Huachuca and 

 Baboquivari Mountains — texana, neo-mexicana and maculipennis 

 maculipennis); from the eastern coast of the United States west 

 to northern Utah (Salt Lake City — maculipennis macclungi), south- 

 ern Nevada (Rioville — maculipennis maculipennis), and central 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



southern Arizona (Baboquivari Mountains — neo-mexicana and mac- 

 ulipennis maculipennis) . The genus is apparently absent, within 

 this area, from the east central states, excepting certain portions 

 of Illinois, and in the eastern states it has a very limited range, 

 being absent from almost the entire Piedmont and more elevated 

 regions, only a few records from above the fall-line in North Caro- 

 lina, Georgia and Alabama being known. As one passes north- 

 ward along the eastern coast the area of distribution narrows, 

 until, in Virginia, it is merely the narrow coastal and estuarine 

 marginal region. Beyond question a number of the species of 

 the genus range over much of northern Mexico, but the lack of 

 data from that region is so great that we can do no more than 

 mention the probability of their occurrence. 



All of the species are partial to grassland, tall salt marsh grass, 

 grassy fresh marsh, prairie grassland, grass patches in park-like 

 woodland, the clump type of bunch grass in arid steppe and sand- 

 hill regions and even grassy pockets on steep rocky slopes. While 

 frequently taken on other vegetation, the presence of grass will 

 be found to be the influencing factor, and the campestrian envir- 

 onment is the favorite situation. 



Zonally the genus Mermiria is an inhabitant of the Lower Aus- 

 tral, Sabalian and Tropical Florida Zones in the eastern states, 

 narrowly encroaching on the Upper Austral in the northeast, 

 while in the western and central United States it occurs in the 

 Upper and Lower Austral Zones, entering areas of the lower part 

 of the Transition Zone in western Texas (Davis Mountains) and 

 southern Arizona (Santa Catalina Mountains) and possibly in 

 the northwestern United States (Montana and North Dakota). 



When tested out for a probable center of distribution we find 

 that far the greater proportion of the factors, to be considered 

 in locating such a center, give central Texas as the center of the 

 generic dis-emination and differentiation. This is the region of 

 greatest differentiation, dominance in individuals, location of 

 synthetic forms (i. e., hivittata and maculipennis, neo-mexicana 

 and alacris), maximum size of individuals, convergence of lines 

 of dispersal and of least dependence on a restricted habitat.^ 



^ Our quotation of these criteria should not be taken as an indication that we 

 are convinced of the propriety of using all of them for such work. We are fol- 

 lowing the general practice in so using them, but at least one, i. e. area of max- 

 imum size of individuals, can hardly be given equal importance with the others. 

 The advent of species of insects into a favorable habitat, removed from their 

 normal natural enemy control, often produces colonies of maximum sized indi- 

 viduals. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



History. — The first species known belonging to the present 

 genus was described by Serville, in 1839, as Opsomala hivittata.* 

 The locality given was "North America," and the specimen de- 

 scribed was from the Latreille Collection, The identity of this 

 insect has been the disturbing factor in all subsequent work in 

 the genus, but we have sufficient knowledge now to show that 

 Latreille received material from Palisot de Beauvois and Bosc, 

 and that the exact locality was probably in the Carolinas. In 

 consequence we feel fully satisfied with our placing of Serville's 

 name. In 1870, Thomas described another species as Opomala 

 [sic] neo-mexicana, from northeastern New Mexico,^ while in 1873 

 Stal erected the genus Mermiria for his new species M. helfragii, 

 described from Texas, ^ which is identical with neo-mexicana. In 

 1877, Scudder described a third species from Georgia, under the 

 name Menniria alacrisy while, in 1890, Bruner described the 

 striking M. texana from El Paso, Texas, and Lerdo, Durango, 

 Mexico,^ and also M. maculipennis from San Antonio and Carrizo 

 Springs, Texas. ^ McNeill, in 1897, in his Revision of the Trux- 

 alinae, published the first study of the genus, and there described 

 M. rostrata, from Mackay, Indian Territory.^'' The latter, we 

 are now able to say, is but an extreme condition of alacris. Mc- 

 Neill made the error of referring material representing three dif- 

 ferent species to hivittata, and his study left us with no better 

 conception of the group than we had before its publication. In 

 1899, Scudder published a short review of the species of the genus, ^^ 

 separating the eastern hygrophilous species as M. intertexta, and 

 also describing M. vigilans, which latter has given authors con- 

 siderable trouble since then, but which we now know to be an 

 individual condition of M. alacris. Scudder united inacuUpennis 

 with hivittata, "as at most only a variety." In 1904, in the Biologia 

 Centrali-Americana, Bruner retained for the species of the genus 

 the nomenclature used by Scudder in 1899.^- In the same work 

 he also erected^^ a new genus and species, Papagoa arizonensis, 



^Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 589, (1S39). 



s Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, p. 77, (1870). 



6 Recens. Orthopt., i, p. 102, (1873). 



' Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xix, p. 30, (1877). 



8 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, p. 53, pi. I, fig. 11, (1890). 



^ Ibid., p. 54, (1890). 



'"Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi, pp. 205, 207, pi. I, fig. 3c, (1897). 



i^Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxxv, pp. 41 to 44, (1899). 



i^Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., ii, pp. 38 to 39, (1904). 



"Ibid., pp. 27, 42, (1904). 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



for a specimen from ''Arizona or Northern Mexico," which we 

 now know to be a shrivelled alcohoUc individual of Mermiria 

 texana. 



Matenal. — In the preparation of the present paper the types 

 of the following species have been examined by us: 



Mermiria texana Bruner. 



Papagoa arizonensis Bruner (synonym of M. texana). 



Opomala neo-mexicana Thomas. 



Mermiria alacris Scudder. 



Mermiria vigilans Scudder (synonym of M. alacris). 



Mermiria intertexta Scudder. 



Mermiria maculiyenms Bruner. 



Mermiria maculipennis macdungi new subspecies. 



The entire series of the genus examined by us and here I'ecorded 

 numbers 1514 specimens. The majority (938) of these were 

 taken by Rehn and Hebard on recent trips and are located in 

 the Hebard Collection and that of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia. Of the remainder of the representation 

 we have had before us, 50 specimens were from the Hebard Col- 

 lection ex Bruner, 33 specimens from the Scudder Collection at 

 the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, Massa- 

 chusetts, 73 specimens from the United States National Museum, 

 39 specimens from the collection of Prof. A. P. Morse, 12 from 

 that of Prof. M. P. Somes, 3 from the Illinois State Laboratory 

 of Natural History, 103 from the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia (other than Rehn and Hebard collecting), and 263 

 specimens from other collections and institutions, including the 

 Hebard Collection other than Rehn and Hebard collecting and 

 ex Bruner. In addition to this material we have re-examined 

 considerable material already recorded by Rehn and Hebard, 

 and not included in these totals. All the institutions and collec- 

 tions represented in the studied series are indicated by their initials 

 in the summaries of material under the species, with the exception 

 of the series collected by Rehn and Hebard, which it should be 

 understood, are in the Hebard Collection and that of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelpliia. 



We wish to express our hearty thanks to the above mentioned 

 gentlemen, and the authorities of these museums for their assist- 

 ance in the present study. We have been able, with their assist- 

 ance, to gather together a sufficiently extensive and representative 

 series of the genus to give authority and permanency to the con- 

 clusions here reached. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Key to Species. 



We would suggest that, in using this key, frequent reference 

 be made to the figures accompanying the paper. Occasionally 

 insistence is made upon a single differential character, and in 

 such cases it should be borne in mind that these characters are 

 the crucial ones, not subject to fluctuation by variation. Other 

 features may aid in distinguishing the forms, and these are de- 

 tailed under the specific treatments, but variation will occasion- 

 ally rob these features of their critical value. 



A. Lateral carinae of pronotum strongly or weakly (intertexta) , but 

 always appreciably indicated. Form slender or relatively 

 robust; when of the latter tj^pe the tegmina bear a longi- 

 tudinal pale fine in distal half of discoidal field, in addition 

 to the strongly marked proximal subcostal line and pale anal 

 angles of tegmina. 

 B. Supplementary carinae on lateral lobes of pronotum evident 

 (rather weakly in neo-mexicana) . Species decidedly or 

 typically xerophilous. 

 C. Form relatively robust. Lateral carinae of pronotum 

 decidedly diverging caudad, rarely by variation sub- 

 parallel. Lateral lobes of pronotum with ventral margin 

 shorter than depth of lobes. Tegmina relatively broad. 

 Color pattern bold, distinctive; subcostal pale line of 

 tegmina strongly marked, narrow; medio-longitudinal 

 dorsal line invariably present. Antennae moderately 

 ensiform. Caudal femora relatively robust, almost in- 

 variably falling distinctly short of the tegminal apices. 

 Subgenital plate of male short, weakly produced, blunted. 



texana Bruner 

 CC. Form slender. Lateral carinae of pronotum not at all, 

 or, by variation, faintly diverging caudad. Lateral 

 lobes of pronotum with ventral margin longer than 

 depth of lobes. Tegmina relatively narrow. Color 

 pattern with broad medio-longitudinal dorsal line rarely 

 present. Antennae strongly ensiform. Caudal femora 

 slender (surpassing, equalling, or falling faintly short 

 of tegminal apices). Subgenital plate of male pro- 

 duced, elongate pyramidical. 

 D. Fastigium more semi-elliptical, the sides converging in 

 a well-rounded curve, the tip very broadly or at least 

 bluntly rounded. Subgenital plate of male moderately 

 produced. Species campestrian, central and western 



in habitat neo-mexicana (Thomas) 



DD. Fastigium triangular, the sides converging in straight 

 or only slightly curved lines, the tip narrowly rounded. 

 Subgenital plate of male greatly produced. Species 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



inhabiting grassy woodland, central and southeastern 



in habitat alacris Scudder 



BB. No supplementary carinse on lateral lobes of pronotum. 

 Species invariably hygrophilous. (Form very elongate. 

 Ventral margin of lateral lobes of pronotum longer than 

 depth of lobes. Subgenital plate of male greatly pro- 

 duced. Eastern and southeastern coast.) intertexta Scudder 

 AA. No lateral carinse indicated on pronotum. Form relatively 

 robust; tegmina but faintly or not at all surpassing the apices 

 of the caudal femora. 

 B. jVIale with no subcostal pale bar on the proximal half of the 

 tegmina. Fastigio-facial angle, when seen from the side, 

 more broadly rounded in both sexes." Coloration more 

 frequently greenish. Species central and southeastern in 



habitat hivittata (Serville) 



BB. Male with subcostal pale bar on the proximal half of teg- 

 mina. Fastigio-facial angle, when seen from the side, 

 more narrowly rounded and more angulate in both sexes." 

 Coloration more frequently buffy. Species central and 

 western in habitat. 

 C. Form more attenuate and elongate. Pronotum distinctly 

 more elongate and appreciably constricted mesad; caudal 

 angle of disk of pronotum very broadly and weakly 

 angulate. Eyes of female moderately prominent, when 

 viewed from the dorsum. Size in general larger. South- 

 central and southwestern in habitat. 



maculipennis maculipennis Bruner 

 CC. Form less attenuate and elongate. Pronotum shorter 

 and relatively broader, not appreciably constricted mesad; 

 caudal angle of disk of pronotum more distinctly pro- 

 duced and angulate. Eyes of female less prominent, 

 when viewed from the dorsum. Size in general smaller. 

 North-central in habitat. 



maciilipennis macdungi new subspecies 



Treatment of Species 



Mermiria texana Bruner. Plate V, figs 1-14. 



1890. Mermiria texana Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, p. 53, pi. I, 

 fig. 11. [c? 9 : El Paso, Texas; Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.] 



1897. Mermiria texana McNeill, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi, pp. 204, 

 206. [Lerodo (error for Lerdo), Durango, Mexico; El Paso, Texas; 

 Colorado Springs, Colorado; Fort Grant, Arizona.] 



1899. Mermiria texana Scudder, Pro^. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxxv, 

 pp. 41. 42. [Colorado; Coahuila, Mexico; also summary of previously- 

 reported localities.] 



1902. Mermiria texana mut. viridis Cockerell, in Scudder and Cockerell, 

 Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., ix, p. 24. [Las Vegas Hot Springs, New Mex- 

 ico.] 



1904. Mermiria texana Bruner, Biol. Cent.-.\mer., Orth., ii, p. 38, pi. I, 

 figs. 19. 19a. [Siunmary of previous records.] 



1904. Papagoa arizonensis Bruner, Ibia., p. 42. [cT: Arizona or northern 

 Mexico.] 



" These features are relative and average, and by variation overlapping. 

 5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The present species stands in a relatively isolated position in 

 the genus, and it has been suggested to the author that it should 

 be subgenerically differentiated from the genotype. We do not 

 feel warranted in taking such action at this time, as we lack suf- 

 ficient evidence to justify it. However, texana can be readily 

 distinguished from all the other forms of the genus by combining 

 with lateral pronotal carinse and supplementary carinse on the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum, a relatively robust form, short 

 male subgenital plate, relatively short and robust caudal femora 

 and a strikingly contrasted and longitudinally barred color pat- 

 tern. The latter is mainly featured by a pronounced, broad, 

 medio-longitudinal dark bar, pale anal angles on the tegmina, a 

 second pale line in the distal half of the discoidal field of the teg- 

 mina and incomplete barring on the dorsal surface of the caudal 

 femora. 



Type.— d"; El Paso, Texas; [November, 1887]; (L. Bruner); 

 [Hebard Collection ex Bruner, Type no. 21]. Designated by 

 Rehn and Hebard, 1912. '^ 



Allotype. — 9 ; same data as type. 



Of the original series the type and the allotypic female are now 

 before us, a paratypic El Paso male, in the collection of the United 

 States National Museum, has been examined, and a paratypic 

 female from Lerdo, Durango, Mexico, in the Hebard Collection 

 ex Bruner, is also in hand. 



The species is sharply defined and so easily recognized by the 

 features given in the key, and by the figures, that no description 

 is necessary. The following comments cover the more note- 

 worthy features of variation. 



Morphological Notes. — The variation in fastigial form found in 

 most of the species of this genus is well examplified in texana. 

 In each of the series from Sanderson, Persimmon Gap, Pine Moun- 

 tain and Prescott we find males (figured) which show a range 

 from a moderately acute-angulate to a strongly acuminate outline. 

 In the females this variation is rarelj^ decided, yet occasionally 

 we find it distinctly marked, the three females from Canyon be- 

 hind Pulliam Bluff, Chisos Mountains, showing different types 

 with well-marked extremes, the two females from Lost Mine 

 Peak, Chisos Mountains, are very different in this respect, while 

 the extremes of the twenty-eight Marathon females are decidedly 



i^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912. p. G2, (1912j. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



different. There is very considerable variation in the relative 

 width of the pronotum, particularly in the female, the greatest 

 width varying very decidedly in proportion to the length. This 

 variation, in its most decided phase, has no geographic correlation, 

 the Marathon series alone showing both the markedly different 

 forms figured. In both sexes there is a weak but apparent tumidity 

 of the pronotum caudad in the majority of the specimens, but 

 more pronounced in the male. This is occasionally almost absent 

 and there is no geographic correlation in this variation in width, 

 nor is there any apparent correlation with the proportion of width 

 to length. 



Synonymy. — We have before us the unique male type of Papagoa 

 arizonensis Bruner. As mentioned by Bruner, the specimen has 

 been dried from alcohol and is greatly shrivelled. The form of 

 the fastigium has been greatly altered, being unnaturally acute 

 and the dorsal surface of the same part is greatly distorted. The 

 specimen is unquestionably a male in-dividual of Mermiria texana, 

 of the general size of material of that sex from southern Arizona. 

 The genus Papagoa and the species arizonensis must be sunk in 

 synonymy under texana. Cockerell's mutation viricUs we have 

 not seen, but we must decry the use of technical names for such 

 phases, as the logical outcome would be the enforced establish- 

 ment of thousands of similar names in the Orthoptera, for well 

 known and easily recognized manifestations of elementary, prob- 

 ably physiological and clearly non-genetic, influences. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 

 cf body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Sanderson, Texas 25.5 3.9 20.4 14.8 



Sanderson, Texas 26.5 4.2 22.5 16.6 



Marathon, Texas 29.2 4.5 22.7 16.5 



Marathon, Texas 31.5 5.1 25.6 17.5 



Persimmon Gap, Texas 24.9 4.1 19.4 13.5 



Persimmon Gap, Texas 29.5 4.6 24.2 17 



Lost Mine Peak, Texas 29 4.7 24.6 17 



Lost Mine Peak, Texas 30 5 25 IS 



Pine Mountain, Texas 25 4 20.3 14.6 



Pine Mountain, Te.xas 28.3 4.8 24.4 17.9 



El Paso, Texas, type 30.2 5 27 18.2 



Franklin Mountains, Texas 29.2 5 25.2 17 



Franklin Mountains, Texas 32.3 5.3 27.6 18.2 



Rock House Canyon, Arizona 26.8 4.4 24.4 16.5 



Mud Springs, Arizona 25.2 4.2 21 14.5 



Mud Springs, Arizona 25.2 4 21.7 14.7 



Prescott, Arizona 23 3.6 18.5 12.8 



Prescott, Arizona 25.2 4 22 15.5 



Mount Tritle, Arizona 23.8 4.1 19.4i« 13.8 



^^ Apex incomplete. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 

 9 body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Sanderson, Texas 35 5.7 27.8 20.2 



Marathon, Texas 40.5 6 ■ 29.8 21 



Marathon, Texas 51 7.3 35.8 25.4 



Persimmon Gap, Texas 37 5.7 29 20.4 



Persimmon Gap, Texas 41.2 5.9 31.6 21.9 



Lost Mine Peak, Texas 40 6.3 31.5 21.8 



Lost Mine Peak, Texas 43.5 6.6 32.5 24 



Pine Mountain, Texas 40.5 6.1 29.5 21.5 



Pine Mountain, Texas 45 6.7 31.5 23 



El Paso, Texas, allotype 45 6.5 34.4 ~ 



Franklin Mountains, Texas . . .' 48.5 7.2 35 23.7 



Jemez Hot Springs, New Mexico.... 36.8 6.4 3C.6 22 



Jemez Hot Springs, New Mexico. . . .43.6 6.5 32.2 23 



Rock House Canyon, Arizona 42 6.5 32.5 23.5 



Rock House Canyon, Arizona 44.5 6.5 32.5 22.8 



Carr Canyon, Arizona 40 6.5 32 23.5 



Carr Canyon, Arizona 46.5 7.5 34 24.5 



Mud Springs, Arizona 40.5 6.2 29.5 21.5 



Mud Springs, Arizona 41 6.2 32 22.8 



Prescott, Arizona 32.2 5.5 26.2 19 



Prescott, Arizona 36 6 30 21.2 



Lerdo, Durango, Mexico, para/ype. . .45.3 7.4 35.4 24.7 



From these figures, which have been taken from extremes in 

 the representations where more than two of each sex are present, 

 it is evident that individuals are of minimum size at the higher 

 elevations and at the periphery of the range. The Sanderson 

 material, which, while taken at a low elevation, is from the eastern 

 known limit of the range, and that from Mud Springs, Prescott 

 and Mount Tritle at the western limit and quite elevated, present 

 the minima, while specimens from Persimmon Gap, another quite 

 eastern locality, are quite close in size; Pine Mountain, another 

 quite elevated station, also presents uniformly small individuals. 

 The optimum of size is developed in the Eastern Desert region 

 (Franklin Mountains, Aden and Lerdo). 



Color Notes. — The greenish phase of this species, which we have 

 never seen adult, was named by Cockerell.^' The description 

 of immature individuals of both color phases has been given else- 

 where by the same author. ^^ From the present material the 

 principal individual color variations appear to be: a fluctuation 

 in depth of the dorso-median dark bar of the head, pronotum and 

 proximo-sutural section of the tegmina; an occasional dark livid 

 suffusion of the ventral half of the lateral lobes of the pronotum; 

 a weak maculation of the tegminal intercalary area and some 

 instability in the strength of the femoral markings. The dorsal 

 bar ranges from nearly solid, through a type with paler center to 



" Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., ix, p. 24, (1902). 

 18 Psyche, ix, p. 430, (1902). 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 69 



an extreme with the bar itself virtually eliminated, leaving only 

 a pair of arcuate lines on the head (lateral margins of the bar) 

 and a median dark line on the median carina of the pronotum. 

 The geographic color variation is largely tonal. The Sanderson 

 and Persimmon Gap series have the pale areas quite whitish, 

 the brown Vandyke brown; the Marathon series and those from 

 the El Pasan region run to yellow in the pale areas, while the 

 Arizonan series largely (but not entirely) to light pinkish buff 

 in the same sections. The pale markings in the vicinity of the 

 humeral trunk of the tegmina, however, are always more whitish 

 than the other pale areas. The Pine Mountain series has a strongly 

 intensive type of coloration, the brown being very dark (blackish 

 brown) and the pale areas dull soiled buffy. 



Distribution. — The range of this species extends from an unde- 

 termined point in Colorado, at least as far north as Salida and 

 Colorado Springs," south to northern Durango (Lerdo) and east- 

 central Coahuila (Monclova),-" Mexico; east almost to the Pecos 

 River (Sanderson), Texas, west to central (Oak Creek Canyon), 

 and southern (Santa Catalina, Santa Rita and Huachuca Moun- 

 tains) Arizona. It doubtless extends south for a considerable 

 distance in the central mountainous regions of northern Mexico. 

 Its zonal range is Upper and Lower Sonoran, occurring in Upper 

 Sonoran islands in Transition surroundings. 



Its vertical distribution is, on the basis of present records and 

 information, from 2750 feet (Sanderson, Texas) to 7000 (Pine 

 Mountain and Lost Mine Peak, Texas) and even 7300 feet (Mount 

 Tritle, Arizona). In Texas alone the records range from the 

 minimum to near (7000 feet) the maximum elevations known 

 for the species, while in Arizona the records cover localities from 

 3800 feet (Sabino Basin) to 7300 feet (Mount Tritle). 



Biological Notes. — This insect is a very active one and flies 

 quickly upon being approached. The dried specimen would 

 hardly be called protectively colored, with its boldly striped 



1^ The specimen given by Scudder as "Colorado, 7000 (Morrison)" is also 

 clearly this species. We feel quite certain it came from the more southern part 

 of the state. 



Caudell (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, p. 780, (1903)) reported a pair of this 

 species from Fort Collins, Colorado, and, with some doubt, immature material 

 from Salida, Colorado. These specimens are now before us. The Fort Collins 

 pair are typical of M. maculipennis macclungi, while a pair of immature speci- 

 mens from Salida clearly represent texana. 



^^ Reported as Montelovez; see comments by Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1917, p. 252, (1917). 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



pattern, yet in short yellow grass, or tufted bunch grass, the spe- 

 cies is not easy to locate, often never being seen unless marked 

 down after a flight. It is distinctly a hillside species, rarely found 

 on dirt hills, but with a strong preference for stony or rocky slopes, 

 with scattered cover of short grass or bunch grass, and dotted 

 with lecheguilla {Agave lechiujuilla) , agaves {Agave schotti and 

 palmeri), bear grass {Nolina microcarpa) , ocotillo {Fouquieria 

 splendens), sotol {Dasylirion leiophyJIum and wheeleri) and cacti. 

 Near the upper limits of its vertical distribution it occurs in the 

 open spots of scrub oak areas. In southern Arizona it is a species 

 of the Desert and Encinal regions, as they have been delimited 

 by Shreve.21 In but a single case have we noted the species in 

 flat land, then at Marathon, Texas, where two were seen on the 

 plain some distance from the hills where individuals of the species 

 were numerous. 



The species has been taken adult as early as June 10 to 12 (Chisos 

 Mountains, Texas) and as late as November (El Paso, Texas, 

 and Lerdo, Durango, Mexico). The latest exact date we have 

 is October 14 (Rock House Canyon, Arizona), immature indi- 

 viduals in the stage preceding maturity being taken as well as 

 adults. It is possible the species matures earlier and persists later 

 in the season southward at lower elevations than toward the north- 

 ern limit of its range, or at higher elevations southward, but the evi- 

 dence is not fully conclusive. The earliest records we have for 

 northern New Mexico are August 10 (Las Vegas Hot Springs) 

 and August 12 to 20 (Jemez Hot Springs), while we have adults 

 from the border region taken from July 9 (Franklin Mountains, 

 Texas) and 18 (Mud Springs, Arizona") on. However, we have a 

 single adult male from Prescott, Arizona, taken July 7, and a 

 good series of both sexes from the same locality, taken from July 9 

 on. The latest date for immature specimens in the Prescott 

 series is August 5, while we have adults taken as late as August 25. 

 At Pine Mountain, Davis Mountains, Texas, elevation 5800 to 

 7000 feet, we found both adults and immature specimens common 

 on August 31, which shows a late maturing season at an elevated 

 locality in a relatively southern region, while, as stated above, 



2' Publ. 217, Carneg. Inst. Wash., po. 15-29, (1915). 



2- The occurrence of adults so early, at a locality relativelj^ .so high (6800 feet), 

 can be explained, we are certain, by slope exposure. The locality is on a warm 

 south-facing slope, at the upper edge of the Encinal region. Shreve (Publ. 217, 

 Carneg. Inst. Wash., p. 97 et seq., (1915)) has carefully analyzed the role of 

 slope exposure in the Santa Catalina Mountains. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



immature specimens were also present at Rock House Canyon, 

 Arizona, on October 14. Identifiable immature specimens are 

 'before us, taken July 7(Prescott, Arizona) and July 8 to 11 (Sabino 

 Basin, Arizona). 



Specifnens examined: 349; 187 males, 127 females, 13 immature 

 males, 22 immature females. 



Texas: Sanderson, Terrell County, 2750 to 3180 feet; VIII, 

 25, 1912; (R. & H.; scarce in sotol {Dasylirion) and grasses in 

 bed of canyon water course and in similar situations on adjacent 

 steep slopes); 7 cf, 1 9. Marathon, Brewster County, 3940 to 

 4160 feet; VIII, 26 to 27, IX, 12 to 13, 1912; (R. & H.; very com- 

 mon on rocky hillsides, especially toward top, two seen on plain 

 far from hills); 22 cf, 17 9 ; VIII, 20, 1916, (R.; relatively com- 

 mon on hill slopes); 4 cf', 6 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. Persimmon Gap, 

 Santiago :\Its., Brewster County, IX, 3 and 10, 1912; (R. & H.; 

 near grass tufts on rocky hillside with much lecheguilla. Agave 

 lechuguilla); 11 cf, 2 9. Between Neville Spring and Govern- 

 ment Spring, Chisos Mts. slope, Brewster County, 3600 to 3800 

 feet; IX, o. 1912; (R. & H.; on slope with little grass and much 

 lecheguilla, yucca and creosote bush, Covillea) ; 1 9 . Chisos 

 Mts., Brewster County, VI, 10 to 12, 1908, (Mitchell and Cush- 

 man; at light), 1 cf ; [U. S. N. M.]: VII, 1911, (H. A. Wenzel) ; 

 3 d', 7 9 ; [A. N. S. P.]. Moss Well, Chisos Mts., Brewster County, 

 4500 to 5000 feet; IX, 5 to 8, 1912; (R. & H.; scarce in grasses on 

 hillside, immatures common) ; 2 d^, 1 9,1 juv. cf, 2 juv. 9 . Can- 

 yon behind Pulliam Bluff, Chisos Mts., Brewster County, 4600 

 to 5000 feet; IX, 7, 1912; (R. & H.; in high grass and sotol); 2 cf, 

 3 9 . Lost Mine Peak, Chisos Mts., Brewster County, 5500 to 

 7000 feet; IX, 7, 1912; (R. & H.; in open places of oak scrub on 

 steep slope, few above 6000 feet) ; 7 c^ , 2 9 . Alpine, Brewster 

 County, IX, 8, 1911; (F. C. Bishopp) ; 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. Puer- 

 tacitas Mts., Presidio County, 5100 to 5200 feet; VIII, 31, 1912; 

 (R. & H.); 1 cf. Pine Mountain (slope), Davis Mts., Jeff" Davis 

 County, 5800 to 7000 feet; VIII, 29, 1912; (R. & H.; common 

 in high bunch grass); 22 6^, 4 9,7 juv. 9. Sierra Blanca, El 

 Paso Countv, 4750 feet; IX, 14, 1912; (R. & H.; on slopes of low 

 desert hill); 1 c/". Quitman IMts., El Paso County, 4800 to 5400 

 feet; IX, 14, 1912; (R. & H.; occasional on hillside in grasses); 

 2 d", 1 9. Franklin Mts., El Paso County, 4500 to 5500 feet; 

 IX, 15 to 16, 1912; (R. & H.; on barer slopes with lecheguilla, 

 creosote bush, a few grasses and other desert plants); 10 cf, 4 9 . 



New Mexico: Jemez Hot Springs, Sandoval County; VIII, 

 12 to 20, 1913, IX, 17, 1914; (John Woodgate); 4 9; [Hebard 

 Cln.]. 



Arizona: Prescott, Yavapai County, 5400 to 5600 feet; VIII, 

 14 to 24, 1917; (J. A. Kusche) ; 3 cf", 2 9 : VII, 7 to VIII, 25, 1917; 

 (O. C. Poling) ; 68 d^, 54 9,5 immature d^, 7 immature 9 ; [Hebard 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Cln.]. Near Battle Mountain, near Prescott, Yavapai County; 

 VIII, 18, 1917; (J. A. Kusche); 4 d^, 4 c^; [Hebard Cln.]. Near 

 Granite Peak, Sierra Prieta, Yavapai County; VIII, 17, 1917; 

 (J. A. Kusche); 3 cf , 1 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. Mount Tritle, Yavapai 

 County, 7300 feet; VIII, 27 to 28, 1917; (J. A. Kusche); 1 d" ; 

 [Hebard Cln.]. Rock House Canyon, Chiricahua Mts., Cochise 

 County, 4600 feet; X, 14, 1910; (R. & H.; in high grasses among 

 great rocks) ; 1 c?' , 3 9 , 2 immature cf , 1 immature 9 . Santa 

 Rita Mts., 5000 to 8000 feet; (Snow); 7 cf , 3 9 ; [Univ. of Kansas]. 

 Mud Springs, Santa Catalina Mts., Pima County, 6800 feet; 

 VII, 18 and 19, 1916; (Lutz and Rehn; immature and adults 

 moderately common on slopes under oaks and on crumbling rocks) ; 

 5 d^, 6 9,1 immature d" , 3 immature 9 ; [A. M. N. H. and A. N. 

 S. P.]. Sabino Basin, Santa Catalina Mts., Pima County, 3800 

 feet; VII, 8 to 11, 1916; (Lutz and Rehn; on slopes with bunch 

 grass, lechequilla. agave and bear grass {Nolina); 1 immature cf, 

 1 immature 9 , [A. M. N. H. and A. N. S. P.]. 



Colorado: Salida, Chaffee County; VIII, 2, 1901; (Dyar and 

 Caudell); 2 immature d, 1 immature 9; [U. S. N. M.]. Colo- 

 rado Springs, El Paso County; VII, 1877; 1 immature cf ; [U. S. 

 N. M.]. 



In addition, previously recorded material from El Paso and 

 Franklin Mountains, Texas; Aden, New Mexico; Carr Canyon, 

 Huachuca Mountains, Arizona, and Lerdo, Durango, Mexico, has 

 been before us. 



Mermiria neo-mexicana (Thomas). Plate V, figs. 15-27; Plate VII, flg. 7. 



1870. 0[pomala] neo-mexicana Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1870, p. 77. [ 9 : Northeastern New Mexico.] 



1873. M[ermiria] belfragii St&l, Recensio Orthopt., i, p. 102. [ 9 : Texas.] 



1874. Opojuala neomexicana Glover, 111. N. Amer. Ent., Orth., pi. 16, 



fig. 10.23 



1876. Mermiria neomexicana Scudder, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., ii, 

 p. 262. [Juv.; Clear Creek Canyon and Manitou, Colorado.] 



1897. Mermiria neomexicana McNeill, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 vi, pp. 205, 206. ["Eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains from Wyo- 

 ming to New Mexico and eastward to Georgia."] 



1899. Mermiria neomexicana Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., 

 XXXV, pp. 42, 43. [Pueblo, Colorado; Dallas and Bosque County, Texas.] 



1904. Mermiria neo-mexicana Bruner, Biol. Cent. -Amer., Orth., ii, p. 39. 

 [New Mexico; Te.xas; Villa Lerdo, Durango, Mexico.] 



As we have indicated in the generic discussion of classification 

 and in the key to the species, this species is closely related solely 

 to alacris, with which it comprises Group B of the genus, and 

 which has, however, a different, though contiguous and slightly 



^ This figure is extremely poor and may possibly have been taken from a 

 discolored specimen of texana, instead of neo-mexicana. However, we have 

 no means of checking the source of the drawing and can only let it stand in the 

 references of neo-mexicana. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



overlapping, area of distribution. From alacris, neo-mexicana 

 can be chiefly distinguished by the more semi-elliptical fastigium, 

 the sides of which converge in well-rounded curves, with the apex 

 very broadly, or at least obtusely, rounded, and in the subgenital 

 plate of the male being but moderately produced. The coloration 

 of the two species is usually distinctive, but not invariably so. 

 Very rarely, in the male sex, the fastigium will be unusually angu- 

 late in neo-mexicana, so much so that the separation of such speci- 

 mens from alacris is difficult. The male subgenital plate will be 

 found, however, to furnish a good index of the specific position 

 of the specimen, almost invariably supported by coloration fea- 

 tures. In their habitats the two species frequent radically different 

 environments, neo-mexicana being invariably campestrian and 

 alacris a species of woodland cover or recently cleared timber 

 land, which still retains its low growth or has grown up in wood- 

 land scrub. 



Tyjje. — 9 ; Northeastern New Mexico. [United States National 

 Museum, Type No. 1030.] 



This specimen has been dried from alcohol, but the species 

 has been correctly determined by all subsequent authors excepting 

 Stal, who probably was unacquainted with the description of 

 neo-mexicana. Measurements of the type are given below. 



Morphological Notes. — The principal points of morphological 

 variation are: general form; horizontal angle of fastigium and 

 angle of face. The general form is slender, but the series from 

 the Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona, shows an average more 

 robust form in both sexes. This is not an absolute condition, 

 however, but an average, as several specimens, representing both 

 sexes, from that locality are but little different from numerous 

 individuals taken from the entire series of the species. This 

 greater bulk applies to depth as well as breadth, and is correlated 

 with a generally less strongly declivent face and a broader fastigial 

 angle. The form of the fastigium varies in both sexes to at least 

 as decided a degree as in the other species of the genus, yet being, 

 as a whole, shorter, broader and blunter in the Baboquivari Moun- 

 tains specimens than in the others. There is, however, appreciable 

 variation in these features in even the limited series from that 

 locality, and in series such as those from Cisco, Marathon and 

 Dallas, Texas, and Syracuse, Kansas, the range of variation is 

 very pronounced in each, the extremely narrow, most acute type 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



looking quite different from the short, rounded sub-rectangulate 

 extreme found in the Baboquivari Mountains individuals, and 

 relatively closely approximated in a number of the specimens 

 from other localities. 



The angle of declivence of the facial line shows considerable 

 variation, being, as a rule, more strongly retreating in the more 

 slender individuals. Thus the least retreating faces are found 

 in the more robust Babocjuivari specimens, but there is very con- 

 siderable variation in that series in this respect, so much so that 

 extremes from that locality have their heads, when viewed from 

 the side, quite different in general inclination of the face. The 

 frontal costa varies, of course, in its width and also in its relative 

 depth, with the greater or lesser narrowing of the general form, 

 the quite slender specimens having the costa narrow and with 

 the sulcus more regularly defined, deeper and, as would be ex- 

 pected, narrower and more sharply defined dorsad than in the 

 more robust specimens. 



The tegmina show a slight amount of variation in their relative 

 width, but this is not at all decided. See Remarks for discussion 

 of the value of the morphological differences. 



Synonymy. — Stal's helfragii is clearly the same as Thomas' 

 older species. The description is matched by numerous indi- 

 viduals in the series before us. The name was first properly 

 synonymized by McNeill in 1897. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



<f Length of Length of 



body. pronotum. 



Hot Springs, South Dakota 29 4.4 



Little Big Horn River, Montana 28.5 4.6 



Havana, Ilhnois 32.2 4.6 



Sidney, Nebraska / 26.4 4.1 



Sidney, Nebraska 27 4.4 



Dodge City, Kansas 28.5 4.6 



Dodge City, Kansas 3L2 4.8 



Syracuse, Kansas 33.8 5.2 



Syracuse, Kansas. .■ 34 5.1 



Julesburg, Colorado 29.5 4.8 



Holly, Colorado 37,1 5.5 



La Junta, Colorado 29.7 5 



La Junta, Colorado 31 5 



Cache, Oklahoma 35.3 5 



Mountain Park, Oklahoma 36.6 5.1 



Summit of Mt. Sheridan, Oklahoma. 35 5.3 



Dallas, Texas 32 4.7 



Dallas, Texas 36.5 5.6 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 



body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Kerrville, Texas 33 4.9 23.5 19.5 



Kerrville, Texas 35.5 5.3 24.3 20 



Cisco, Texas 33.1 4.8 23.3 18.9 



Cisco, Texas 37.7 5.8 26.5 22 



Amarillo, Texas 32 4.9 22.5 18.1 



Amarillo, Texas 32.5 4.9 22.4 19 



Marathon, Texas 30.6 4.6 21 17 



Marathon, Texas 35.6 5.5 24.8 • 21 



Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari 



Mountains, Arizona 31.3 5 22 18.2 



Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari 



Mountains, Arizona 37 5.7 27.4 21 



9 



Hot Springs, South Dakota 36.5 6 23 20 



Havana, lUinois 38.6 5.5 24.8 21 



Hamburg, Iowa 43.7 7 28.3 24.2 



Hamburg, Iowa 44 7 30.5 — 



Southwestern Nebraska 41.2 6.3 26 26.8 



Southwestern Nebraska 41.2 6.2 29 22.4 



Dodge City, Kansas 40.2 6.1 28 23.4 



Dodge City, Kansas 39.7 6 27 ' 23 



Syracuse, Kansas 39.8 6.9 29.2 23.4 



Syracuse, Kansas 50 7.5 31.6 27.4 



Dallas, Texas 45 7.2 31 26.2 



Dallas, Texas 52 7.8 33.4 28.8 



Kerrville, Texas 47.2 7 30.6 24 



Cisco, Texas 46.6 6.5 30 25.3 



Cisco, Texas 52.2 7.5 34 26.9 



Amarillo, Texas 45 6.8 30 25.2 



Marathon, Texas 44.2 6.5 38.3 25.3 



Marathon, Texas 51.2 7.6 32.2 26.4 



Northeastern New Mexico (type) .. .37.3 7 25.5 22.4 

 Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari 



Mountains, Arizona 50.5 8 33 26.2 



Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari 



Mountains, Arizona 51 7.8 33.2 26.9 



From these measurements it is quite apparent that the species 

 shows minimum size at the more northern and more eastern locali- 

 ties and the maximum size southward, at least as far as its dis- 

 tribution within the United States is concerned. Immediate 

 environment appears to us to be an extremely potent factor in 

 influencing the size of individuals, those from the relatively poorly 

 grassed Great Plains regions being of small size, excepting when 

 from the more heavily carpeted swales and valleys. The material 

 from the Illinois sand areas, the most eastern locality known for 

 the species, is of very small size, well illustrating the response of 

 the species to a rather unfavorable environment. The optimum 

 size development of the species is reached in northeastern Texas 

 and south-central Oklahoma, with grassland areas of western 

 Texas (Marathon) and southern Arizona (Sycamore Canyon), 

 following in the large size of their representatives. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Color Notes.—The species shows a decided amount of variation 

 in both general tonal color and pattern. It has well marked green 

 and brown phases, which are generall}^ clearly distinct, but occa- 

 sionally brownish specimens will show some element of the green 

 phase, such as the green humeral stripe. The male sex is pre- 

 dominatingly brown phase, the green phase being relatively scarce 

 in that sex, hardly one-tenth of the series of males being in the 

 greenish phase. The female sex is predominatingly green phase, 

 about two-thirds of the female specimens examined representing 

 that type. Our environmental data is not sufficient to warrant 

 any statement as to the correlation of the color tones and the 

 environment, as the information in part contradicts what would 

 be the general assumption regarding such correlation. 



The tone of the green base color varies from light chalcedony 

 yellow (in an apparently teneral individual) through light grape 

 yellow and yellowish citrine to courge green on the head, pro- 

 notum, pleura and caudal femora, while the humeral bar on the 

 tegmina is always more nearly approaching one of the shades of 

 malachite green. The Baboquivari individuals have a base color 

 ranging from dull mustard yellow to wax yellow, with more or 

 less distinctly marked malachite green humeral bars on the 

 tegmina. 



The tone of the brown base color varies from light ochraceous- 

 buff through ochraceous-tawny and tawny to cinnamon-brown, 

 in the latter condition often largely overcast with hoary white 

 except at the normal dark bars. 



The lateral postocular bars range in depth from snuff brown 

 (teneral specimen) through kaiser brown and chestnut brown to 

 mummy brown. The postocular bars are almost invariably well 

 marked. A medio-longitudinal bar on the head and pronotum 

 is occasionally (9) or generally (cf) present, again just intimated, 

 very rarely strongly pronounced in the female sex (one only, from 

 Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona) and infrequently indicated only 

 by arcuate lines of color. In numerous specimens the median 

 carina of the pronotum is finely lined with the color of the post- 

 ocular bars, but no median bar will be marked on the head or 

 otherwise on the pronotum. This condition is connected up by 

 numerous specimens with the uniform medio-longitudinal bar 

 pattern. 



The tegmina vary in the degree of contrast between their base 

 color and the humeral bar. This variation, and also the degree 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



of contrast of the paler lining of the immediate anal angle, is much 

 as in the other species of the genus. The depth of the coloration 

 of the caudal tibiae is gauged by the general tone and pattern. 

 It may be as dull as cameo brown (very dark and recessively 

 colored female from the Illinois sand region), as light as coral 

 red or as rich as scarlet. The latter condition is indicated only 

 in Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona, specimens. 



The small Baboquivari Mountains series is much more brilliant 

 in coloration and averages more lineate (i. e., high percentage with 

 medio-longitudinal bar) than any others. What Mearns has said 

 of the mammals of an adjacent portion of the United States and 

 northern Mexico can be noted in relation to the intensity of colora- 

 tion in these individuals. ''Increased intensity of coloration 

 characterizes the mammals from the valleys containing the ter- 

 minal streams of the great Yaqui River of Mexico, some of which 

 rise on the United States side of the Boundary. "^^ We hope to 

 have more to say in the near future regarding the intensification 

 of color tones and increase in contrast of patterns in Orthoptera 

 from certain sections of the Mexican Boundary region. 



Distribution.- — The range of this species extends from the Yellow- 

 stone and Missouri Rivers region of eastern Montana and western 

 North Dakota, south to central (Kerrville) and western (Chisos 

 Mountains) Texas and northern Durango (Villa Lerdo), Mexico; 

 east to north-central Illinois (vicinity of Havana and Bishop), 

 southwestern Iowa (Hamburg), eastern Oklahoma (Cherokee Na- 

 tion) and central northern Texas (Dallas region) ; west to southern 

 Montana (Little Big Horn River), west-central Colorado (Clear 

 Creek Canyon) and southern Arizona (Baboquivari Mountains). 

 The latter region is separated from the other localities from which 

 the species is known by an interval of about five hundred miles. 

 This striking isolation of the Baboquivari material would be extra- 

 ordinary, if it were not shared by a number of other steppe species 

 having a similar range. The explanation of this type of distribu- 

 tion is yet to be found. The occurrence of areas of tall grass is, 

 however, a controlling factor within the range of the species. 



The vertical range of this species extends from at least as low 

 as 430 feet (Dallas, Texas) to as high as 9000 feet (mouth of Clear 

 Creek Canyon, Colorado). In Texas alone, the vertical range is 

 definitely known to be from the minimum given above to at least 



=^ Bull. 56, U. S. N. M., p. 74, (1907). 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



4485 (Alpine) and 4500 to 5000 (Moss Well) feet. In Oklahoma 

 it has been reported from as low as 1275 feet (Cache), while in 

 Coldl-ado (within its range) it occurs as low as 3460 feet (Julesburg). 



Biological Notes. — Morse has very truthfully and concisely given 

 this species as "characteristic of the coarse grasses of the drier 

 parts of the prairie plains and * * often locally abundant." It 

 is, however, quite at home on hills and slopes, even being con- 

 sidered by Bruner to be partial to hill-tops, while Gillette states 

 it is found both within and without the foothills at Fort Collins. 

 Hart reports it on bunch grass {Panicum virgatum) in blowouts 

 between sand dunes in the Illinois sand areas, while in our ex- 

 perience it occurred in a variety of situations, even within the 

 zone of oaks in the Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona, at 6000 

 feet elevation. The necessary requirement for its presence is a 

 sufficient area of coarse grass, which is as attractive when sun- 

 cured as it is when fresh. It is often taken in company with 

 M. maculipennis macclungi, but is more local and generally less 

 abundant. 



The earliest exact date we have for adults is July 29 (Julesburg), 

 although material taken that month, without exact date, from 

 Little Big Horn River, Montana, and Chisos Mountains, Texas, 

 is now before us. The latest date we have record of is October 6 

 to 9 (Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona). That 

 the species persists late at relatively northern localities is evident, 

 as we have October material, without exact date, from Hot Springs, 

 South Dakota. Adult material taken at Dallas, Texas, on August 



14 to 16 was accompanied by immature individuals, also adult 

 males and immature females were secured at Marathon, Texas, 

 on August 20, so it is evident that the species does not mature ver\'' 

 much earlier southward than it does northward. Morse, in his 

 work in Texas and Oklahoma, secured no adults before August 



15 (Wichita Falls, Texas), although he had taken immature material 

 on August 8 (Caddo, Oklahoma) and again on August 18 (Claren- 

 don, Texas). Hart has reported immature specimens taken in 

 Illinois on August 17 and adults on August 18 to 20. Identifiable 

 immature material has been recorded by other authors, or is now 

 before us, taken as early as July 3 (Clear Creek Canyon, Colorado) 

 and as late as September 5 to 8 (Moss Well, Chisos Mountains, 

 Texas). No adults were taken with the latter. 



Remarks. — This species is, when due allowance is made for the 

 variation found in all of the forms of the genus, a very plastic 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



one, apparently responding readily to environmental influences, 

 in modifications of both structure and coloration. None of these 

 tendencies, however, seem well enough established or as constant 

 as would be required of such differential features to form adequate 

 bases for naming geographic races. The southern Arizonan (Babo- 

 quivari Mountains) material is the more strikingly isolated of 

 these, in its generally blunter fastigium, somewhat more robust 

 form and prominent coloration features. However, as we have 

 shown above, this material itself varies appreciably, and is vir- 

 tually connected with the more normal condition by a number of 

 individuals from component series of the representation before 

 us. Until we know more concerning the species in the south- 

 western portion of its range, its variation there and the geographic 

 extent of the tendencies shown by our small Baboquivari series, 

 it is inadvisable to propose a racial name for this material. The 

 future may show the desirability of such action, but at this writing 

 the evidence does not warrant it. 



Specimens examined: 248; 152 males, 87 females, 2 immature 

 males, 7 immature females. 



Illinois: Havana, Mason Countv; (J. D. Hood); 1 cf , 1 9 ; 

 [U. S. N. M.]. Bishop, Mason CJunty; VIII, 13, 1907; 1 cf" ; 

 [111. State Lab. Nat. Hist.]. 



Iowa: Hamburg, Fremont County; IX, 2, 1914; (M. P. Somes); 

 2 9 ; [Somes Cln.]. 



South Dakota: Hot Springs, Fall River County; X, 1888 

 (one specimen); 1 cf, 1 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. 



Nebraska: Sidnev, Chevenne County, elevation 4100 to 4300 

 feet; VII, 30, 1910; (R. & H.; on top and slopes of bluffs of Lodge 

 Pole Creek); 2 d". Southwest Nebraska; 2 9; [Hebard Cln.]. 



Kansas: Hill City, Graham County; 1910; (C. E. McClung) ; 

 1 immature d" ; [McClung Cln.]. Graham County; (C. E. Mc- 

 Clung); 1 cT, 1 9; [McClung Cln.]. Russell, Russell County; 

 (C. E. McClung); 2 c^, 1 9 ; [McClung Cln.]. Dorrance, Russell 

 County; 1908; (C. E. McClung); 2 c^ ; [McClung Cln.]. Wilson, 

 Ellsworth County; 1910; (Pinney) ; 1 c^ ; [McClung Cln.]. WeUing- 

 ton, Sumner Countv; (E. G. KelljO ; 1 cf ; [Somes Cln.]. Dick- 

 inson County; 1908"; (Robertson); 3 d" ; [McClung Cln.]. Rich- 

 mond, Franklin County; 1910; (Taylor); 1 d" ; [McClung Cln.]. 

 Kingman, Kingman County; 1911; (E. Carothers) ; 1 cf ; [McClung 

 Cln.]. Barber County; (F. W. Cragin); 1 d', 3 9 ; [Hebard Cln.].^* 

 Dodge City, Ford County, elevation 2500 feet; IX, 13, 1909; 

 (H.; very plentiful in areas of short grass); 10 cf , 2 9 . Syracuse, 

 Hamilton County, elevation 3230 feet; IX, 12, 1909; (R. & H.; 

 in short prairie grass); 3 cf, 12 9. 



^^ Previously recorded by Bruner. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Oklahoma: Mountain Park, Tillman County, elevation 1360 

 to 1390 feet; VIII, 22, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 d" ; [Morse Cln.].^^ 

 Summit of Mount Sheridan, Wichita Mountains, Comanche 

 County, elevation 2500 feet; VIII, 24, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 d' ; 

 [Morse Cln.j.^s Cache, Comanche Countv, elevation 1275 feet; 



VIII, 25, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 d^ ; [Morse Cln.].^^ Cherokee 

 Nation; VIII, 1896; 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]." 



Texas: No exact locality; (Belfrage); 2 d' ; [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Amarillo, Potter County, elevation 3600 feet; VIII, 20, 1905; 

 (A. P. Morse); 2 cf , 1 9 ; [Morse Cln.].^-« Wichita Falls, Wichita 

 County, elevation 950 feet; VIII, 15, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 d' ; 

 [Morse Cln.]." Dallas, Dallas County, elevation 430 feet; VIII, 

 14 to 16, 1915; (R.; common in grasses in prairie region, immature 

 individuals very common, female adults not numerous); 35 d^, 

 7 9 ; 1 immature d" , 4 immature 9 : IX, 25 to 26, 1912; (R. & H.; 

 scarce in areas of tall grass); 8 d', 4 9 : IX, 3 (one specimen); 

 (Boll); 2 d^, 3 9 ; [U. S. N. M. and M. C. Z.]. Sagamore Hill, 

 Tarrant County, elevation 650 feet; IX, 27, 1912; (R. & H.); 

 2 9. Weatherford, Parker County, elevation 1000 to 1100 feet; 



IX, 23, 1912; (R. & H.) ; 1 9. Cisco, Eastland County, eleva- 

 tion 1450 to 1550 feet; IX, 21 to 22, 1912; (R. & H.; in grasses 

 along stream and in meadows, locally more common than M. 

 maculipennis maculipenms, with which it was associated); 12 d^, 

 18 9 . Kerrville, Kerr County, elevation 1525 to 1800 feet; VIII, 

 17 to 18, 1912; (R. & H.; scarce in low scant grass about low oak 

 thickets); 2 cf", 1 9. Marathon, Brewster County, elevation 

 3940 to 4160 feet; VIII, 20, 1916; (R.; uncommon in moister 

 areas); 2 d', 2 immature 9 : VIII, 25 to 27 and IX, 12 to 13, 1912; 

 (R. & H.; in high grasses); 35 d^, 13 9. Chisos Mountains, 

 Brewster County; VI, 1911; (H. A. Wenzel); 1 d' ; [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Moss Well, Chisos Mountains, Brewster County, elevation 4500 

 to 5000 feet; IX, 5 to 8, 1912; (R. & H.); 1 immature 9 . Alpine, 

 Brewster County; IX, 8, 1911; (F. C. Bishopp) ; 1 d'; [U. S. N. M.]. 



Montana: Little Big Horn River; VII, 1883; 1 c^; [U. S. N. 



Colorado: Julesburg, Sedgwick County, elevation 3460 to 

 3550 feet; VII, 29, 1910; (R. & H.; on scantily grassed hills); 1 d", 

 1 9. Holly, Prowers County; IX, 8, 1898; (C. P. Gillette); 1 d, 



1 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. La Junta, Otero County, elevation 4150 

 feet; IX, 11, 1909; (R. & H.; not common on poorly grassed broken 

 limestone surface at edge of Great Plains plateau) ; 4 d^ , 5 9 . 



Arizona: Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County; (F. H. Snow); 



2 d^; [A. N. S. P.].^^ Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari Mountains, 

 Pima County, elevation 3700 to 6000 feet; IX, 6 to 9, 1910; (R. & 



2^ Previously recorded by Morse. 

 2^ Previously recorded by Caudell. 



'^s This specimen is labelled "Little Horn River," which is doubtless meant 

 to be Little Big Horn River 

 -' Previously recorded by Rehn. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



H. ; on grassy benches of canyon slopes to tops of ridges and, very 

 rarely, in tall yellow grass in the zone of oaks); 6 cf, 4 9. 



Mermiria alacris Scudder.so PUte V, figs. 28 35; Plate II, figs. 1-4. 



1877. Mermiria alacris Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xix, p. 30. 

 [cf, 9 : Georgia.] 



1897. Mermiria rostrata McNeill, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi, 

 pp. 205, 207, pi. I, fig. 3c. [cf, 9 : Mackay, Oklahoma (Indian Terri- 

 tory).] • . 



1899. Mermiria vigilans Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxxv, 

 pp. 42, 43. [(f', 9 : Smithville, North Carolina] 



Comparison with M. neo-mexicana, the only close ally of the 

 present species, has already been made under that form. 



This species was based on a series of thirty-two males and two 

 females, collected in "Georgia" by H. K. Morrison. Of these 

 we have exanwned nineteen males and one female, all in the Scud- 

 der Collection at the Museum of Comparative Zoology with the 

 exception of one male in the United States National Museum. 

 We here select a single male as the lectotj'pe. 



Single Type (by present selection). — d^ ; Georgia. ''Type speci- 

 men." " Mermiria alacris Scudd." [Scudder Collection in Museum 

 of Comparative Zoology.] 



Morphological Notes.- — The striking morphological variational 

 feature seen in this species is that most noticeable in the other 

 species of the genus, i. e. the form of the fastigium. This variation 

 is spread over the whole distribution of the species and not con- 

 fined to any one region or sex. In the more rounded tj'pe the 

 fastigium forms a rounded, approximately 70° (9) or 65° (d^) 

 angle, from which the variations range through all degrees of 

 production and rounding to 42° ( 9 ) or 33° (o^). The character 

 of the lateral margins of the fastigium varies independently of 

 the exact angle, being weakly arcuate to straight. The exact 

 outline of the dorsum of the head, when seen from the side, the 

 degree of decurving of the fasti gial line, the exact form of the 

 outline of the eye and the exact location of the fastigial impression 

 are all variable and, apparently, always individually. The eyes 

 show similar extremes of this variation to those occurring in inter- 

 texta, while the presence or absence of the weak fastigial medio- 



2" The immature material from Nugent, Mississippi, recorded by Morse as 

 Mermiria bivittata fCarneg. Inst. Wash. Publ., No. 68, p. 28, (1907)), repre- 

 sents, instead, the present species. The adult material there recorded is, how- 

 ever, true bivittata. It is highly probable that the immature specimens recorded 

 at the same time from Biloxi and Hattiesburg, Mississippi, also represent alacris, 

 as bivittata is, apparently, an earlier maturing species, but we have only imma- 

 ture material from Nugent, kindly loaned by Prof. Morse, before us. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



longitudinal carina has no taxonomic significance. McNeill's 

 rostrata was based on individuals with the very acute fastigium, 

 but the extensive material now before us shows this condition to 

 be purely individual. 



Synonymy. — The synonymy given above is very evident to 

 anyone having before them the typical material of the "species," 

 or even topotypic males. Morse" and Rehn and Hebard'^ have 

 already established the synonymy of vigilans, which further study 

 has fully confirmed. McNeill's rostrata has been the subject of 

 considerable study, particularly as nearly topotypic material 

 showed- in part a more acute fastigial form than the average of 

 alacris. A careful analysis of the extensive series before us, cover- 

 ing the whole known range of alacris, shows clearly and most 

 convincingly that similarly very acute fastigii are found at prac- 

 tically every locality represented by a fair series, and also that 

 Oklahoma and north Texas material is as variable, in this respect, 

 as that from other regions. The variation in the Oklahoma and 

 Texas individuals embraces types with the fastigial angle as rounded 

 as in the more average eastern material. The whole range of 

 fastigial variation is similar to and co-extensive with that occurring 

 in all the other species of the genus. The other features given 

 as diagnostic of alacris and rostrata by McNeill are variable and 

 untrustworthy. That author had but five specimens of the two 

 "species" before him at the time, so there is little wonder he was 

 led to assign erroneous values. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



cf Length of Length of Length of Length of 



body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



New Berne, North CaroHna 35.3 6 28 22 



New Berne, North Carolina 37.2 6 26 20 



Southern Pines, North CaroHna 2S 4.8 20.8 17.4 



Southern Pines. North Carohna 34 5.4 25.2 19.6 



Winter Park, North Carolina 32.2 5.2 22.8 18 



Winter Park, North Carolina 37 5.7 25.7 21.2 



Seven Mile, South Carohna 36 6.1 26 21.2 



Seven Mile, South Carolina 39.4 6.5 26.7 21.2 



Groveland, Georgia 37 5.3 25.1 19.6 



Groveland, Georgia 39 5.6 27.3 22 



Bainbridge, Georgia 34 5.4 25 18.8 



Bainbridge, Georgia 37 5.4 26.5 19.5 



Jacksonville, Florida 35 5 24 19.5 



Jacksonville, Florida 36 6 27 20.5 



Pomona, Florida 36.2 6.1 26.5 20.9 



31 Carneg. Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 68, p. 27, (1907). 

 52Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1916, p. 156, (1916). 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83 



Length of Length of Len2:th of Length of 



body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Pomona, Florida .39.5 6.4 28.5 22.4 



Gainesville, Florida 35.5 5.2 24.6 19.2 



Cedar Keys, Florida 34.6 5.2 25 18.4 



Fort Mvers, Florida 32.5 5 23.6 18 



Fort Myers, Florida 38 5.7 26 21 



DeFuniak Springs, Florida 37.5 5.8 26.5 21.5 



DeFuniak Springs, Florida 38.3 5.7 28.2 20.4 



St. Elmo, Alabama 39.8 6 26.2 ' 21 



St. Elmo, Alabama 42 6.5 29.8 21.4 



Alexandria, Louisiana 36.2 5.7 25.3 21.2 



Alexandria, Louisiana 37 5.7 27.3 21 



Elkhart, Texas 37 6 27 21.6 



Elkhart, Texas 40 6.4 28.4 22.9 



Dallas, Texas 37 5.3 27.7 20.3 



Dallas, Texas 40.5 6.4 29.6 23.1 



Shawnee, Oklahoma 39.6 6.2 27.2 21.7 



Waurika, Oklahoma 36 5.6 26.4 20.4 



Hollister, Missouri 33.5 5.2 23.4 18.9 



9 



New Berne, North CaroHna 48.2 8 34 26.5 



Southern Pines, North Carolina 40.2 6.5 30 22.5 



Southern Pines, North Carolina 46.3 7.4 34 25.2 



Winter Park, North Carolina 47 7.8 34 25.4 



Winter Park, North Carolina 52.8 8 35.5 26.2 



Seven Mile, South Carolina 52.2 8.6 36 26.8 



Seven Mile, South Carolina 52.7 9.2 37.3 29.2 



Groveland, Georgia 55 8.4 35 26.5 



Bainbridge, Georgia 45 7.5 31 25.4 



Bainbridge, Georgia 49.2 7.7 34.5 27 



Jacksonville, Florida 51.6 8 35.2 27.6 



Jacksonville, Florida .53.5 8.3 35.8 26.5 



Pomona, Florida 47.5 7.7 34 27.7 



Pomona, Florida .53.1 8.8 35.6 28.8 



Titusville, Florida 52.3 8.2 ^3 27.7 



Fort Myers, Florida 51.4 8 36.5 27.5 



Fort Myers, Florida 50.5 8 35.2 28.1 



DeFuniak Springs, Florida 50 8.2 36.2 27.7 



Irvington, Alabaaa 47.3 7.8 34.8 27.7 



Irvington, Alabama 53.5 8.9 38.2 29 



Alexandria, Louisiana 47.6 7.4 34.5 26.5 



Alexandria, Louisiana 47.3 7.6 32.9 25.6 



Dallas, Texas 47.5 7.5 32.4 23.8 



Dallas, Texas 50 8.4 34.6 26.5 



Wilburton, Oklahoma 51.5 7.9 36 27 



Stillwater, Oklahoma 44.2 7.5 31 24.4 



Hollister, Missouri 45.5 7 31 23.6 



These measuremeixts of extremes show there is a great amount 



of variation at single localities, in both sexes, but particularly 



in the male sex. The optimum size development of the species 



is found in the low coastal region of the Carolinas, and in the 

 north Floridian and Gulf Coast regions between Jacksonville and 



southern Mississippi, although the material continues well above 

 average size into northeastern Texas and eastern and south-central 



'2 Damaged. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Oklahoma. The minimum is found in material from the northern 

 limits of the range and inland from the eastern coast, at what is 

 the interior limit of the species in that region. The peninsular 

 Florida individuals show, as a whole, a faint reduction in size 

 compared with north Floridian specimens. 



Color Notes. — The coloration of this species is distinctive when 

 compared with most of the others in the genus, although certain 

 individuals of neo-mexicana are very similar. The latter can, 

 however, be readily distinguished by the structural characters. 

 The base color in alacris ranges from dull lemon chrome to oil 

 yellow and courge green, rarely as dull as sulphine yellow (only 

 in the material from Elkhart, Texas), the abdomen always clearer, 

 purer and more decidedly yellow. The dark bars range in tone 

 from dragon's-blood red to garnet brown, rarely to liver brown 

 and chestnut-brown. The dark markings on the head and pro- 

 notum may be of similar depth or those on the head may be dis- 

 tinctly paler and less sharply marked. The usual dark medio- 

 longitudinal line on the head, pronotum and sutural margins of 

 the tegmina may be strongly and uniformly marked, in fact almost 

 as decided as the lateral bars, may be obsolete on the head yet 

 distinct on the pronotum, or may be completely absent except 

 for a narrow lining along the median carina of the pronotum. 

 We find that the maximum reduction of the medio-longitudinal 

 bar is generally accompanied by a slight weakening of the lateral 

 bars, i. e., the specimens having I'udimentary medio-longitudinal 

 bars show relatively weaker lateral bars. The tegminal continua- 

 tion of the dark bar is broad and unbroken by a pale humeral 

 line in one extreme condition, while in the other extreme the dark 

 bar on the proximal portion of the tegmina is narrower than the 

 humeral pale line, and distad it is weaker and suffuses but about 

 one-half of the width of the discoidal field. The face varies from 

 uniformly pale, except for dark lines along the lateral facial carinae, 

 to uniformly suffused with the color of the dark pattern. The 

 creamy white edgings of the dark lateral head and pronotal bars, 

 the ventral edging of the continuation of the same on the pleura 

 and the line at the ventral edge of the genge, pronotum and ventrad 

 on the pleura vary in distinctness. The immature specimens 

 show a green or (rarely) brown phase with the dark bars indicated 

 and enclosed between cream-colored callose lines. 



The palest material seen is from Alexandria, Louisiana, while 

 specimens from Pass Christian, Mississippi, strongly approach 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



the Alexandria ones. The Elkhart, Texas, series is very deeply 

 but dully colored, while the single Waurika male is also very dull. 

 From central-northern Florida (Woodville) and southwestern 

 Georgia (Bainbridge) westward in the Gulf Coast region the spe- 

 cies averages paler, and with lighter greens than it does along 

 the eastern coast from North Carolina south into peninsular Florida. 



Distribution. — In the east the range of this species extends 

 from as far north as central North Carolina (Salisbury and New 

 Berne), south to south-central Florida (lona, Fort Myers and 

 Okeechobee, St. Lucie County), the Gulf Coast of western Florida, 

 Alabama, Mississippi and interior Louisiana; west to northeastern 

 Texas (Dallas, Longview and Elkhart), northwestward to central 

 Oklahoma (Perkins, Stillwater, Shawnee and Waurika) and ex- 

 treme southeastern Kansas (Independence), north in the Mississ- 

 ippi Valley to southern Missouri (HoUister). In the east it occurs 

 chiefly below the Fall-line in the Coastal Plain, but immature 

 material, clearly of this species, has been taken at Toccoa, Georgia, 

 over one thousand feet elevation, and at Salisbury, North Caro- 

 lina, while we have examined one adult from Clemson College, 

 South Carolina, which is at an elevation of eight hundred and 

 fifty feet. The northern limit of the species' distribution in Ala- 

 bama and Mississippi remains to be determined; we feel confident, 

 from our field experience, that it is either absent or extremely 

 scarce in southwestern Louisiana and southeastern Texas. 



The presence of areas of long- and short-leaf pine appears to 

 exercise a decided influence on the distribution of this species, 

 although it occurs to the northwest of the range of these trees in 

 Oklahoma. 



Biological Notes. — This beautiful species frequents tall grass in 

 long- or short-leaf pine woods of rolling or flat woods type, or 

 mixed woods; occasionally in wet woods or along the borders of 

 swampy timbered areas. It also occurs in associated gallberry 

 and similar bushes in its preferred environment, and persists in 

 grasses and oak sprouts after the higher covering forest has been 

 removed. Rarely it appears to invade old fields growing up in 

 grasses and bushes, and rather infrequently is found in sandy 

 barrens of low oak and pine, where it occurs in the scant grass 

 and oak sprouts. It is a moderately strong flier and is quite adept 

 at dodging, its conspicuous coloring not rendering it as evident 

 as would be imagined. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The earhest date available for adults is July 16 to 29, at Spring 

 Creek, Georgia, while an adult was taken at Augusta, Georgia, 

 on the latter date and several others at Albany, Georgia, on Aug- 

 ust 1. We have also seen an adult specimen labelled July, taken 

 at Billy's Island, Georgia. The Spring Creek, Augusta, and Billy's 

 Island specimens were secured with immature specimens of the 

 species, the latter representing two instars in each case, all being 

 in the two instars preceding maturity excepting the immature 

 individuals from Billy's Island, which were chiefly taken in June 

 and much less advanced. June is the earliest month noted for 

 the immature condition, and we have material (females in the 

 instar preceding maturity) taken with adult individuals as late 

 as September 13 to 15. We have seen no immature specimens 

 taken later than August 18 (Longview, Texas) which are not in 

 the instar immediately preceding maturity. The latest date 

 known for adults is November 22, at Smithville, North Carolina. 

 We have seen specimens taken during the same month at Southern 

 Pines, North Carolina, and Titusville, Florida, while the species 

 occurs at the most western known locality (Waurika, Oklahoma) 

 as late as October 14. The earliest northern date for adults is 

 August 4, at Southern Pines, North Carolina, so it is evident the 

 species has a mature season of over three months at its northern 

 limit of distribution in the east. 



Specimens examined: 203; 134 males, 55 females, 2 immature 

 males, 12 immature females. 



North Carolina: Southern Pines, Moore County; VIII, 4 to 

 25, X, 13, 1915; (A. H. Manee) ; 17 cT, 6 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. 



South Carolina: Clemson College, Oconee County; IX, 1 to 

 2, 1905; 1 &■ [Somes Cln.]. Lane, Williamsburg County; VII, 

 20, 1917; (M. Hebard: in grasses in long-leaf pine woods); 1 imma- 

 ture cf , 2 immature 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. Seven Mile, Charleston 

 County; IX, 23, 1917; (R. & H.; occasional in pine woods); 6 cf, 

 4 9. 



Georgia: Groveland, Bryan County; IX, 21, 1917; (R. & H.; 

 infrequent in undergrowth of sandy oak barrens); 5 <f, 1 9. 

 Bainbridge, Decatur County; IX, 5 to 6, 1915; (R. & H.; occa- 

 sional in undergrowth of pine and oak woods, particularly in the 

 more grassy areas) ; 9 cf , 7 9,1 immature 9 . 



Florida: Ocala, Marion County; IX, 19 to 20, 1917; (R. & H.; 

 in sandy barrens and undergrowth of sandy pine and oak flat- 

 woods); 1 cf , 3 9. Pomona, Putnam County; IX, 7 to 8, 1917; 

 (R. & H.; in undergrowth in pine woods); 2 cf , 2 9 . Dunnellon, 

 Marion County; IX, 19, 1917; (R. & H.; rare in pine woods under- 

 growth); 1 9. Kissimmee, Osceola County; IX, 10, 1917; (R. & 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



H.; along edge of cypress bay); 3 cf. Lakeland, Polk County; 

 IX, 11, 1917; (R. & H.; few in pine woods undergrowth); 1 c^, 

 1 9. lona, Lee County; IX, 13, 1917; (R. & H.; in pine woods 

 undergrowth); 19,1 immature 9. Fort Myers, Lee County; 

 IX, 13 to 15, 1917; (R. & H.; in pine woods); 7 d", 2 9 ; 1 imma- 

 ture 9. Okeechobee, St. Lucie County; VII, 1915; (M. Mickle) ; 

 1 immature 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. Woodville, Leon County; IX, 1, 

 1915; (R. & H.; moderately numerous in wire grass in long-leaf 

 pine woods and in oak sprouts); 9 cf, 3 9. Carrabelle, Franklin 

 County; IX, 2 to 3, 1915; (R. & H.; few in grasses on edge of 

 swampy wooded areas); 5 cf, 2 9. River Junction, Gaclsden 

 County; VIII, 31, 1915; (R. & H.; few in long-leaf pine woods); 

 4 d^. Grand Ridge, Jackson County; IX, 1, 1915; (R. & H.; in 

 wire grass in long-leaf pine woods) ; 1 cf • DeFuniak Springs, 

 Walton County; VIII, 30, 1915; (R. & H.; moderately common 

 in wire grass in long-leaf pine woods) ; 1 1 cf , 2 9,1 immature 9 . 

 Pensacola, Escambia County; VIII. 28 to 29, 191o; (R. & H.; 

 occasional in heavy wire grass, ground oak, etc., in long-leaf pine 

 woods); 7 cf, 2 9., 2 immature 9. 



Alabama: ]\Iontgomery, Montgomery County; IX, 8, 1915; 

 (H.; in coarse grasses in park-like short-leaf pine woods on ridges); 

 1 9. Mobile, Mobile County; VIII, 26 to 27, 1915; (R. & H.; 

 in tall grasses in long-leaf pine flat-woods); 3 cf- Irvington, 

 Mobile County; VIII, 26, 1915; (R. & H.; moderately common 

 in grasses of deforested pine flat -woods) ; 4 9 . St. Elmo, Mobile 

 County; VIII, 26, 1915; (R. & H.; moderately common in heavy 

 grasses in long-leaf pine flat-woods); 6 cf, 2 9, 1 immature 9. 



Mississippi: Hattiesburg, Forest County; IX, 11, 1915; (R. & 

 H.; in rolling, rather open long-leaf pine flat-woods); 3 cf, 1 9. 

 Pass Christian, Harrison County; VIII, 23, 1915; (R. & H.; one 

 colony in high grasses in swampy pine woods); 3 cf. 



Louisiana: Alexandria, Rapides Parish; VIII, 22, 1915; (R. & 

 H.; very locally common in tall grasses of rather open long-leaf 

 pine- woods); 12 cf , 2 9. 



Texas: Longview, Gregg County; VIII, 18, 1915; (R. & H.; 

 in short -leaf pine woods); 1 immature 9. Elkhart, Anderson 

 County; VIII, 16, 1915; (H.; in tall grass patches along border 

 of woods, chiefly short-leaf pine); 11 cf, 1 immature cf, 1 imma- 

 ture 9. Dallas, Dallas Countv; IX, 10 (on two specimens); 

 (Boll); 3 cf , 2 9 ; [M. C. Z.^^ and U. S. N. M.]. 



Oklahoma: No exact locahtv; (Ray Painter); 1 cf , 1 9 ; [U. S. 

 N. M.]. Wilburton, Latimer" County; VIII, 27, 1905; (A. P. 

 Morse); 1 9; [Morse Cln.].^^ Shawnee, Pottawatomie County; 

 VIII, 26, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 cf ; [Morse Cln.j.ss Stillwater, 

 Payne County; (A. N. Caudell); 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.].^^ Perkins, 



^* The two males and one female from the Scudder Collection []M. C. Z.] are 

 labelled "neomexicana" in Scudder's handwriting. Thev are clearly alacris. 

 25 Reported by Morse. Carneg. Inst. Wash., Publ. 68, p. 27, (1907). 

 '^Reported by Caudell, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, xxviii, p. 84, (1902). 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Payne County; VIII, 13, 1901; (N. Caudell); 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Waurika, Jefferson County; X, 14, 1909; (F. C. Bishopp) ; 1 c^ ; 

 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Kansas: Independence, Montgomery County; VIII to IX, 

 1902; (A. Birchfield); 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. 



Missouri: Hollister, Taney County; VIII, 1909 and 1913; 

 (M. P. Somes); 1 d', 1 9 ; [Somes Cln.]. 



Rehn and Hebard have recorded the species from the following 

 localities: Fayetteville, New Berne, Southern Pines, Wilmington, 

 Winter Park, Wrightsville and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; 

 Columbia, Ashley Junction and Yemmassee, South Carolina; 

 Toccoa, Augusta, Macon, Jesup, Billy's Island, Albany, Bain- 

 bridge and Spring Creek, Georgia; Jacksonville, Pablo Beach, 

 San Pablo, Gainesville, Cedar Keys, and Titusville, Florida. 



Merxniria intertexta Scudder. Plate VI, figs. 5-14. 



1897. Mermiria hiviUata McNeill (in part), Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., 



vi, ]3p. 204, 205. [Apparently the single Virginia record applies to this 



species.] 

 1899. Mermiria intertexta Scudder, Proc. Amer. iVcad. Arts and Sci., 



XXXV, pp. 41, 42. [cf, 9 : Georgia; Eagle Pass, Texas.] 

 1904. Mermiria intertexta Bruner, Biol. Cent. -Amer., Orth., ii, p. 39. 



[Eagle Pass, Texas.] 



This striking species occupies a rather intermediate position 

 between the two types of the genus, having appreciable, though 

 not strongly marked, lateral carinas on the dorsum of the pro- 

 notum, yet lacking supplementary carinae on the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum. The form is very elongate, with the pronotum 

 unusually elongate, yet regularly, though weakly, enlarging caudad. 

 The species is entirely hygrophilous, and as far as known, found 

 only on the eastern and Floridian coasts. 



Tijpe. — cf; Georgia. (Morrison.) [Scudder Collection.] Allo- 

 type. — 9 ; same data. 



The species was based on two males and two females from 

 Georgia and Eagle Pass, Texas (Schott), all in the Scudder Col- 

 lection. Of these we have examined two males and one female 

 from the former locality." 



The present species, like M. texana, is so sharply defined from 

 the other forms of the genus that, with the basic differential fea- 



" We have not had an opportunity recently to examine the single female 

 recorded from Eagle Pass, Texas. There is every reason to suppose it belongs 

 to M. tnaculipennis macidipennis, and has nothing to do with the present species, 

 which, in habitat, is absolutely foreign to that locality. The specimen recorded 

 by Caudell (Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci., Sci. Bull., i, p. 110, (1904)) 

 from the Brownsville region, Texas, as this species, is now before us, and, as 

 we had suspected, represents M. maculipennis maculipemiis. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



tures of the species in mind, intertexta will not be confused with 

 any other, while its hygrophilous tendencies also serve as an addi- 

 tional aid to its recognition. 



Morphological Notes. — In every series of any size of this species 

 we find the most striking extremes in the variation in the outline 

 of the fastigium, particularly of the males. We have figured the 

 extremes of that sex of two series, which will show more graphic- 

 ally than words the variability in the production, degree of angu- 

 lation or roundness of the outline of the fastigium. The greater 

 or lesser degree of projection of the fastigium has, of course, an 

 evident influence on the form of the fastigio-facial angle, when 

 seen from the side, and with this is correlated some variation in 

 the shape of the basal outline of the eye, the dorso-cephalic section 

 being more strongl}^ acute angulate in those with the fastigium 

 more produced, and more produced rounded in those with the 

 fastigium relatively shorter. Aside from this, however, the form 

 of the eyes varies decidedly and entirely individually, the greatest 

 width contained in one extreme one and one-half times in the 

 greatest depth of the same, and in the other extreme one and 

 three-quarters times in the greatest depth. Considerable indi- 

 vidual variation in the width and relative depth of the sulcation 

 of the frontal costa is evident in the series, this being purely indi- 

 vidual. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 

 cf body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Anglesea, New Jersey 32 .5.1 23 18.6 



Anglesea, New Jersey. . 31.7 5 22.3 17.8 



Cape May, New Jersey 30 5 22.5 17.7 



Cape May, New Jersey 34.1 5.7 24 18.4 



Millenbeck, Virginia 33.5 5.6 25.2 21 



Wrightsville, North CaroHna 39 5.8 27.3 22 



Isle of Palms, South Carohna 37.7 6 25 20.9 



Tybee Island, Georgia 36 5.6 26.2 20.5 



Tybee Island, Georgia 42.5 6.9 29 22.7 



Pablo Beach, Florida 26.3 5.6 25.9 20 



Pablo Beach, Florida 40.7 6 28.8 21.9 



Homestead, Florida 35.1 5.7 25.3 19.7 



Homestead, Florida 39.5 6 27.5 21.2 



Big Pine Key, Florida 32.3 5 24 18.7 



Big Pine Key, Florida 36.7 5.9 26.4 21.5 



Indian Beach, Florida 42 7 29.5 24.5 



Indian Beach, Florida 40.6 6.4 27.8 22.6 



Cedar Keys, Florida 36.5 5.5 25.5 22.3 



Cedar Keys, Florida 38.2 5.8 25 20.5 



9 



Angle.sea, New Jersey 46.5 8 32.5 26 



Anglesea, New Jersey 47.3 8 34.2 26.9 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 

 body. i:ronotum tegmen. caudal femur. 



Cane Mav, New Jersey 46.5 7.6 33.3 25.3 



Cape Mav, New Jersey 48.6 8.7 34.6 28 



Millenbec-k, Virginia 40.5 8.2 35.8 28.4 



Smith Ishind, North Carohna 55 '9.5 40 30.3 



Isle of Palms, South Carolina 53 9 38.3 31.2 



Tvbee Lsland, Georgia 53.2 8.3 37.3 28 



Tvbee Island, Georgia 57.6 9 42 30.5 . 



Pablo Beach, Florida 48 8 35 25.9 



Pablo Beach, Florida 55 9 36.9 29 



Homestead, Florida 53.4 8.5 37.3 27.7 



Big Pine Key, Florida 58.5 8.9 37.4 30.4 



Indian Beach, Florida 54.2 9.2 39.5 30 



Cedar Keys, Florida 52.5 9 37.7 30 



These measurements, which represent the maximum and mini- 

 mum where series are available, show there is an average increase 

 in size southward from New Jersey to northern and central Florida, 

 the New Jersey individuals being far and away the minimum in 

 the average of the measurements, while the optimum develop- 

 ment of the species is apparently reached in the Georgian and 

 north and central Floridian coast regions. There is, however, 

 at each locality represented by a series, sufficient variation in 

 the material to show that measurements of single individuals 

 are of little value, except where they show the actual maximum 

 or minimum of the species at that locality. 



Color Notes. — The species exhibits two color phases, green and 

 brown, between which stand certain individuals annectant in 

 their tonal coloration. The green tone ranges from as pale as 

 olive-yellow and as brilliant as clear dull green-yellow to as dull 

 as citron green, while in the brown phase we find the tonal value 

 connected with the greens and ranging as dark as tawny-olive. 

 The dark markings are always more decided in the male and range 

 from dresden brown to mummy brown. The medio-longitudinal 

 stripe of the head and pronotum is always more apparent in the 

 male, rarely as sharply indicated, and never as solid and dark, 

 in the female as in the male, being entirely absent in several of 

 the former sex. It is occasionally limited to the head and also 

 divided longitudinally by a thread of the pale base color. The 

 dark lateral bars are occasionally very weak in strongly green 

 phase females, and never are as strongly marked in the female 

 as in the male. Rarely the pale subcostal tegminal streak is 

 obsolete. Eehn and Hebard^^ already have given notes on the 

 south Florida material here examined. 



ssProc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1914, p. 390, (1914). 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 91 



Distribution. — In the maritime region from southern New Jersey 

 (as far north as Ocean City), south to the Florida Keys (Long 

 Key, Big Pine Key), and northwestward along the coast of western 

 Florida as far as Cedar Keys. The species has also been reported 

 from the Brownsville region (Caudell) and Eagle Pass (Scudder), 

 Texas, but we know the former is incorrect, really referring to 

 M. maculipennis maculipennis, and the latter is in all probability 

 an erroneous association, as extensive field work by Rehn and 

 Hebard in that region, and in the whole stretch of Gulf territory 

 intervening between the Rio Grande and Cedar Keys has failed 

 to bring the species to light. 



Biological Notes. — This species is distinctly hygrophilous, found 

 in both fresh and salt marsh situations, occasionally straying into 

 adjacent dune vegetation. Its preference is for coarse high grasses 

 and reeds in open marsh or marshy depressions, occasionally in 

 more strictly bog conditions (Belleplain) or narrow wet drains 

 (Pablo Beach), while it has been taken in dry areas of low oak, 

 bayberry, palmetto and briars among dunes near extensive salt 

 marsh areas (Isle of Palms), and also in bayberry tangles on sand 

 dunes in New Jersey (Cape May). Morse^^ has well said: "It 

 is a shy and active species, flying freely and far, and on alighting 

 dodges quickly around the grass stems to escape observation, 

 or slipping nimbly downward and backward, seeks to hide itself." 



Adults of this species have been taken as early as July 6 (Big 

 Pine Keys, Florida) and as late as November 15 (Punta Gorda, 

 Florida), while immature specimens have been taken as early as 

 March 13 (Long Key, Florida) and as late as September 19 to 20 

 (Big Pine Key). From the northern portion of the range of the 

 species we have no data on captures of adults earlier than August 9 

 (Ocean City, Virginia), and from New Jersey, August 18 to 22 

 is the earliest period, while September 24 is our latest date for 

 the same region (Cape May Point). These northern records 

 probably do not represent actual extremes either way, certainly 

 not for last captures, but they are sufficient to show a season for 

 adults some months longer in Florida than at the northern ex- 

 tremity of the range. Adults taken July 6 at Big Pine Key, Flor- 

 ida, were secured with immature individuals in the three instars 

 preceding maturity. From the fact that Davis secured immature 

 material at the same place September 19 to 20, with adults, it 



=9 Publ. No. 18, Carneg. Inst., p. 29, (1904). 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



would seem very probable that the species has more than a single 

 breed at the southern point of its distribution. 



Remarks. — This species has no synonymy, but it has been mis- 

 identified on several occasions, chiefly on account of the uncer- 

 tainty attached to the name hivittata, and the efforts of authors 

 to follow Scudder's differential features for the species of the genus. 

 Smith reported it as hivittata,*° and again as vigilans,^^ in the latter 

 determination following Rehn and Hebard, who had referred 

 Floridian material of the present species to vigilans.*'^ By the 

 proper reference of the latter to the synonymy under alacris, and 

 a corrected conception of hivittata, we are able to clear up the 

 uncertainty surrounding these names. In the Scudder Collection 

 we find one male and two females bearing the same data as the 

 type material of intertexta, and arranged under hivittata, which 

 are clearly intertexta. From this material we have evidence of 

 the extent to which Scudder's failure to recognize individual varia- 

 tion in this genus led him into serious difficulties. By dogmatically 

 assuming the exact degree of fastigial angulation to be a specific 

 criterion, he associated very different forms and disassociated 

 material of the same species. 



Specimens examined: Previously unreported, 91; 33 cf , 43 9, 

 1 immature cf, 14 immature 9. Previously reported material 

 listed solely as localities. 



New Jersey: Belleplain;" Anglesea;" Cape May;^^ Cape May, 

 Cape County, VIII, 18-31, 1917, (Witmer Stone; near salt marsh 

 and in bayberry thickets on sand dunes), 28 cf, 40 9,1 imma- 

 ture d", 13 immature 9, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Virginia: Millenbeck, Lancaster County, VIII, 8, 1915, (H. 

 Fox), 3 cf, 2 9, 1 immature 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



North Carolina: Wrightsville," Smith's Island." 



South Carolina: Coast ;« Isle of Palms." 



Georgia: No exact locality;" Tybee Island." 



" Ins. New Jersey, p. 154, (1900). 



" Ann. Reo. N. J. State Mus., 1909, p. 179, (1910). 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 286, (1907). 



^^ Recorded as vigilans by Fox (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1914, p. 487, 

 (1914)). 



*■• Reported by Smith as hivillata (Ins. N. J., p. 154, (1900)) and vigilans (Ann. 

 Rep. N. J. State Mus., 1909, p. 179, (1910)). 



" Reported by Rehn and Hebard (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1916, p. 157, 

 (1916)). 



*^ Portion of original material of Scudder. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Florida: Atlantic Beach ;^5 Pablo Beach ;^^ Jacksonville;" South 

 Jacksonville;" Cedar Keys;^' Indian Beach, Sand Key, Pinellas 

 County, IX, 17, 1917, (R. & H.; in area of high grass on landward 

 border of salt marsh), 2 cf , 1 9 ; Long Boat Key," Useppa Island;''* 

 Miami ;^5 Homestead ;*° Long Key;^° Big Pine Key.^° 



Mermiria bivittata (Serville)." Plate VI, figs. 15-24. 



1839. Opsomala bivittata Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 589. [ 9 : 

 North America.) 



1877. M[ermiria] bivittata Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., xix, p. 30. 

 [Georgia.] 



1897. Mermiria bivittata McNeill, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi, 

 pp. 204, 205. (In part.) 



1899. Mermiria bivittata Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxxv, 

 pp. 41, 42. (In part.) ["Georgia" and "Texas" records only.] 



1904. Mermiria bivittata Morse, Publ. 18, Carneg. Inst. Wash., p. 29. 

 [cf: Fort Barrancas, Florida.] 



1907. Mermiria bivittata Morse, Publ. 68, Carneg. Inst. Wash., p. 28. 

 (In part.) [cf, 9: Cheaha [Chehawhaw] Mountain, Alabama; Nugent, 

 Mississippi; Caddo, South McAlester and Wilburton, Indian Territory 

 (now part of Oklahoma); Cache and Mountain Park, (in part), Okla- 

 homa; Denison, St. Jo and Wichita Falls, (in part), Texas, records.] 



1907. Mermiria intertexta Rehn and Hebard (not of Scudder), Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 286. [c?: Pablo Beach, Florida.] 



1916. Mermiria bivittata Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1916, p. 157. [ 9 : BUly's Island, Georgia.] 



Comparison. — This species is closely related in general appear- 

 ance to macuUpennis, and the two are often very hard to separate, 

 particularly in the female sex. The most conspicuous feature 

 of the species is found only in the male sex and is purely a color 

 character, i. e., the absence of a pale subcostal stripe on the teg- 

 mina. In all the other species of the genus this is constantly 

 indicated, although rarely subobsolete in males of intertexta, which, 

 however, are quite distinct in other features. The other features 

 of difference in this species from macuUpennis are: the usual 

 presence of a short, weak, cephalic median carina on the fastigium; 

 the proportionately shorter dorsum of the fastigium in both sexes, 



*' Reported by Rehn and Hebard as vigilans (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1907, p. 286, (1907)). The material there reported by them as vigilans since 

 has been correctly assigned to bivittita. 



48 Reported by Hebard (Ent. News, xxvii, p. 17, (1916)). 



■"^ Reported as Mermiria species by Rehn and Hebard (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1912, p. 250, (1912)). 



50 Reported by Rehn and Hebard (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1914, p. 390, 

 (1914)). 



'^ The following references may relate to this species, but their assignment 

 cannot be made positively. 



1870. Opomala bivittata Walker, Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., iii, p. 507. 

 [St. John's Bluff, Florida.] (May refer as well to M. intertexta or alacris.) 



1871. Opomala bivittata Scudder, Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. Nebr., p. 250. 

 [Nebraska City, Nebraska.] (May refer as well to M. macuUpennis.) 



1872. Opomala bivittata Glover, 111. N. A. Ent., Orth., pi. vi, figs. 24, 26, 

 pi. xi, fig. 7. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



and the fastigio-facial angle also more broadly rounded ; the caudal 

 margin of the pronotal disk being more distinctly angulate and 

 the coloration with a larger percentage of green or greenish. 



Type.- — The original specimen of this species, on which Serville 

 founded the name, was a female fi'om "TAmerique septentrionale," 

 labelled by Latreille, from whose collection it was received. The 

 description is sufficient to enable us to locate the species with 

 fair certainty and correlated information assists further. Material 

 in Serville's possession, similarly labelled and of similar origin, 

 formed the basis of, among other species, Leptysma marginicoUis,^^ 

 Paroxya clavuliger and Psinidia fenestralis. As the range of these 

 species has been fairly well mapped, and, as the region inhabited 

 by maculipennis was largely unexplored, or at most unsettled, in 

 the days of Latreille, we can feel relatively safe in considering 

 the probable origin of the Latreille specimen as the southeastern 

 states, where all the other species from the Latreille Collection 

 occur, where bivittata as we understand it also occurs, and rnaculi- 

 pennis is unknown. The present location of the Serville material 

 is not definitely known to us." 



Morphological Notes. — The present species shows a relatively 

 small degree of variation in the dorsal fastigial form, viewed from 

 the standpoint of the genus, although there is quite an appreciable 

 difference between the extremes found in either sex. In the male 

 the extremes measure from about 52° to 84° in their angulation, 

 or from a moderately acute angle to nearly a right angle, with its 

 horizontal apex from narrowly rounded to rather broadly and 

 bluntly rounded. The strength of the very short median carina 

 on the cephalic section of the male fastigium varies greatly; it 

 is never really strongly marked and is occasionally absent. The 

 exact width of the marginal rim of the fastigium, due to the posi- 

 tion of the intermarginal depression, varies as much in this as 

 in the other species of the genus. In the female the angle of the 

 horizontal apex of the fastigium varies from about 80° to 95°, 

 or from a slightly acute to a slightly obtuse angle, with much 

 variation in the degree and extent of the rounding of the same. 



*^ These are placed in their modern genera. 



" When comparing the description with intertexta, the only other species of 

 the southeastern states to which it might apply, it is evident Serville did not 

 have that species, as he says the postocular bars are black, while in intertexta 

 they are always brown in the female, and the subcostal pale tegminal bar is so 

 reduced and relatively weak it /kvouki not answer the description. In addition, 

 the size of females of intertexta from the southeastern states is always greater 

 than "20 lignes," as described. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



The indication of the median fastigial carina in the female is 

 as frequent as in the male, but it is generally, when present, less 

 decided than in the other sex. When seen from the lateral aspect 

 the fastigio-facial angle is always well rounded in the female, and 

 rather narrowly, but still appreciably, rounded in the male. This 

 is, in fact, one of the chief distinguishing features of the species. 

 There is quite a little variation in the basal form of the eye, this 

 ranging from ovoid-elliptical to narrowly elongate ovoid. The 

 pronotum shows some little variation in the relative proportions 

 of the dorsum of the prozona and metazona. The caudal margin 

 of the disk of the pronotum is always angulate, broadly obtuse, 

 varying slightly in its degree. The relative breadth to length of 

 the pronotum shows a negligible amount of variation. 



We have made a count of the caudal tibial spines of ten males 

 and seven females, comprising the series from Navasota, Texas, 

 with the following results: 



Extremes in numbers on external margin ' 18-22 



Extremes in numbers on internal margin 15-18 



Average number on external margin 20 



Average number on internal margin 16 -f- 



Greatest difference between numbers on same margin in same specimens 



(external) . ._ 18-21 



Greatest difference between numbers on same margin in same specimens 



(internal) ' 16-17 



9 



Extremes in numbers on external margin 19-22 



Extremes in numbers on internal margin 17-19 



Average number of external margin 21 



Average number on internal margin 17 + 



Greatest difference between numbers on same margin in same specimens 



(external) 19-22 



Greatest difference between numbers on same margin in same specimens 



(internal) 17-18 



Synonymy. — The species bivittata in the past has never been 

 properly distinguished from maculi'pennis, and the published 

 references to Serville's species are either erroneous (referring to 

 maculi'pennis alone), in part correct (where the forms were not 

 recognized as distinct), or fortuitously correct (where material 

 of this species alone was in hand). The reference of a Pablo 

 Beach male of this species to intertexta by Rehn and Hebard, in 

 1907, was due to the first recognition by those authors of a species 

 distinct from true intertexta (then called by them vigilans). At 

 that time Rehn and Hebard continued to use the name bivittata 

 for the campestral species here shown to be properly called maculi- 

 pennis. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch , 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 



cf body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Lane, South CaroUna 29 4.9 20.5 17.4 



Lane, South Carohna 30.3 5.2 23.5 18.5 



Billy's Island, Georgia 33.5 5.4 23.8 18.4 



Pablo Beach, Florida 34.3 5.7 25.2 19.6 



Fort Barrancas, Florida 30.7 5.4 24.4 17.6 



Chehawhaw Mountain, Alabama.. . . 30 5 23.3 18 



Nugent, Mississippi 30 5.1 21.6 17.3 



Keokuk, Iowa 29.5 5.2 23 18.7 



Keokuk, Iowa 30.8 5 21.5 18.2 



West Point, Nebraska 28.3 4.6 21 17 



Douglas Countv, Kansas 31 s* 5 23.4 18 



Douglas County, Kansas 30.7 4.8 20.4 16.8 



Barber County, Kan.sas 33.7 5.4 25 19.5 



Barber County, Kansas 34.8 6 24.3 20.9 



Mountain Park, Oklahoma 32 5.2 24 19.8 



Caddo, Oklahoma 36 6 26.3 21 



Denison, Texas 34 5.4 25.4 20.8 



Denison, Texas 36 5.7 26.6 21.4 



Dallas, Texas 33.8 5.3 22.8 18.7 



Dallas, Texas 34.3 6 25.5 21 



Shovel Mountain, Texas 30.8 5.2 24.2 19.8 



Shovel Mountain, Texas 32.3 5.8 25 20.3 



Navasota, Texas 35 5.5 26 20.2 



Navasota, Te.xas. 35.5 6 27.5 21 



Flatonia, Texas 31.8 5 23.8 19.5 



Flatonia, Texas 37 6 26.2 22 



Rosenberg, Texas 33.3 5.6 25 20.2 



Rosenberg, Texas 34.7 6 27.3 20.4 



9 



Lane, South Carolina 44.2 7.3 32 25 



Lane, South Carolina 47.2 7.8 34 25.7 



"Georgia" 43 7.3 32.3 26.7 



" Georgia" 46 8 35 27.4 



Chehawhaw Mountain, Alabama ... 44 6.9 34.5 25 



Richmond. Kansas 43 7.6 31.8 26.3 



Cache, Oklahoma 47 7.7 34.7 27.5 



South McAlester, Oklahoma 47.5 7.7 36.7 29 



Wichita Falls, Texas 47.3 7.5 34 28 



Wichita Falls, Texas 51.3 8 35 30 



Denison, Texas 48.3 8 34 28 



Denison, Texas 49 8 35.3 28 



Dallas, Texas 47 7 33.5 26.7 



Shovel Mountain, Texas 39.5 7 29.7 25.4 



Shovel Mountain, Texas 45.9 7.5 35.7 27.1 



Navasota, Texas 48.8 7.9 34.4 28.6 



Navasota, Texas 51.2 8.4 35.8 30.3 



Flatonia, Texas 45.8 7.7 32.4 26.7 



Flatonia, Texas 48.6 8 34 29 



Rosenberg, Texas 49.6 8 34 27.2 



Rosenberg, Texas 53.4 8.4 37 29 



From these measurements it is evident that the species reaches 



its maximum of size in southeastern Texas and in the Red River 



region of northeastern Texas and southeastern Oklahoma, the 



^^ Apex of abdomen abnormally extended. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



size decreasing as one passes into higher country and northward 

 toward the northern limit of its distribution. The material from 

 West Point, Nebraska, northeastern Kansas and southeastern 

 Iowa is very small, while that from elevated localities in Ala- 

 bama, Oklahoma and Texas (i. e., Chehawhaw Mountain, Moun- 

 tain Park and Shovel Mountain) is relatively small. Regarding 

 the size variation in material from the eastern coast we can say 

 but little, as the most northern material known from that region 

 (Havelock, North Carolina) is not now available, and we possess 

 a fair series from but a single definite locality — Lane, South Caro- 

 lina. The latter shows equally small size when compared with 

 material from the more northern points in the Mississippi Valley 

 and interior region. 



Color Notes. — The present species shares with AI. texana the 

 distinction of having a more fixed color pattern than the other 

 species of the genus. The one striking feature of color difference 

 is a sexual one and it is, as far as the material before us goes, abso- 

 lutely constant. In the female sex the subcostal stripe is strongly 

 indicated and relatively broad, while in the male it is entirely 

 absent, the species being unique in this respect. The postocular 

 bars are pronounced in both sexes, in the female almost never, 

 and in the male usually, encroaching on the dorsum of the meta- 

 zona; never, however, to the extent frequently found in maculi- 

 'pennis, and then generally in a dilute intensity. Very rarely 

 is a medio-longitudinal bar present on the dorsum of the head 

 and pronotum, and then it is generally limited to the head, made 

 up of separate points and divided in two by a hair line of the gen- 

 eral color. In certain specimens of the series in hand the medio- 

 longitudinal line is indicated on the pronotum as well as on the 

 head, and in those cases it is formed by an infuscation of the median 

 carina. Rarely (three males: "Georgia," Chehawhaw Mountain, 

 Alabama; three females; Lane, South Carolina) the median carina 

 of the pronotum is distinctly hair-lined with fuscous, while the 

 head has almost no indication of a line. Invariably the anal 

 area of the tegmina, suturad of the last axillary vein, is of the pale 

 dorsal color. 



The pale base coloration of the male ranges from citron yellow 

 (on the abdomen mustard yellow), through yellowish citrine to 

 oil green, with a few specimens (all from Texas) ochraceous-buff 

 to buckthorn brown. The majority of the Texan males are reed 

 yellow. The pale base coloration of the female ranges from citron 

 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



green, through sea-foam, green and antimony yellow and ochraceous- 

 buff to pale tawny and even (very rarely) hays russet, the dorsum 

 rarely with a ferruginous wash. The postocular bars in both 

 sexes range from deep blackish fuscous to prout's brown, usually, 

 but not invariably, more contrasted in the male than in the female. 

 The dark area of the tegmina of the male ranges from weak cinna- 

 mon-brown proximad, paling distad to very weak snuff brown, 

 to solidly blackish fuscous, as a broad, uniform continuation of 

 the postocular bars. In the female, as in the male, the tegminal 

 coloration is controlled by the depth of coloration of the postocular 

 bars, and in this sex they are invariably of the same tone, regularly 

 weakening distad, much the darkest along the proximal section 

 of the costal margin and along the humeral trunk, thus contrasting 

 the enclosed pale subcostal bar. Rarely, in the female sex, a 

 maculate tendency, such as found in maculipennis, occurs" in 

 variable intensity and extent. An infuscation of the face occurs 

 more or less distinctly in numerous specimens, but it is strongly 

 contrasted and very striking in eastern males alone. The caudal 

 femora range in coloration from brazil red, through scarlet and 

 carnelian red to hazel. 



The geographic correlation of coloration seems best summarized 

 by stating that intensive coloration in its maximum development, 

 i. e. very dark postocular bars, medio-longitudinal bar, very dark 

 tegmina and infuscate face, is developed only in the southeastern 

 states, with Kansas specimens closely approaching it, while Texan 

 material chiefly represents the recessive type and stages approach 

 that extreme, with a factor for maculation, such as found in mac- 

 culipennis, becoming evident in that region. The Texan series 

 is sufficiently extensive to show that local conditions are strong 

 influencing coloration factors, while at the same time individual 

 variation, chiefly in the female sex, is considerable in series as ex- 

 tensive as those from Flatonia, Rosenberg and Navasota. 



The hays russet tone of general coloration is found in a single 

 female from Lane, South Carolina. 



Distribution. — The range of this species extends from eastern 

 North Carolina (Havelock) and the higher country of northern 

 Alabama (Chehawhaw Mountain), to eastern Georgia (Billy's 

 Island) and northern Florida (Pablo Beach), westward along the 

 Gulf Coast probably continuously to Texas; westward in which 



"Wichita Falls, Tex. (1); St. Jo, Tex. (1); Shovel Mountain, Tex. (7); Fla- 

 tonia, Tex. (2). 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



state it is distributed to the region of the Edwards Plateau (Shovel 

 Mountain), extending south in the same state as far as Flatonia 

 and Rosenberg, while northward the range extends to northeastern 

 Nebraska (West Point) and southeastern Iowa (Keokuk). In 

 the southeastern states we do not know its interior limits, as the 

 few exact localities known are practically coastal, with the excep- 

 tion of Chehawhaw Mountain, northern Alabama, while from be- 

 tween the east coast and Texas we have but two reliable records — 

 Fort Barrancas, Florida, and Nugent, Mississippi. In Oklahoma 

 it extends as far westward as the western base of the Wichita 

 Mountains (Mountain Park), and in Kansas its westward known 

 limit is Sun City, Barber County. The only information we have 

 regarding the occurrence of the species in the central Mississippi 

 Valley is Hs capture at Keokuk, Iowa, from which evidence its 

 presence in southern Illinois would not be surprising. 



The species' occurrence within its range is now known to be gov- 

 erned by the presence of rich grasslands and it does not occur as 

 far west or as high as the Great Plains region, being entirely one 

 of the humid district. Its range in part overlaps that of macul- 

 ipennis maculipennis in eastern Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska 

 and Iowa, but, as maculipennis is essentially an arid land type, 

 over most of their respective territories the other species does not 

 occur. Zonally hivittata is almost entirely Austroriparian and 

 Sabalian, occuring in the Carolinian zone only in the northwestern 

 portion of its territory. 



In vertical distribution this species ranges from sea-level (Pablo 

 Beach and Fort Barrancas, Florida) to at least two thousand feet 

 elevation (Chehawhaw Mountain, Alabama, 2000 to 2400 feet; 

 St. Jo, Texas, 1140 feet; Shovel Mountain, Texas, over 1000 feet; 

 Cache, Oklahoma, 1275 feet; Mountain Park, Oklahoma, 1360 to 

 1690 feet). In Texas the lowest point represented (Harrisburg) 

 is but a few feet above sea-level. 



Biological Notes. — All the available information shows hivittata 

 to be a species frequenting areas of rich, high grass, with or with- 

 out intermingled weeds, where it is at times locally very abundant, 

 and in from distinctly maritime (Fort Barrancas and Pablo Beach, 

 Florida) to relatively hilly or at least rolling (Mountain Park, and 

 Cache, Oklahoma; Dallas and Shovel Mountain, Texas) environ- 

 ments. At Fort Barrancas it occurred in J uncus along a tidal in- 

 let, at Navasota and Flatonia its preferred habitat was in or near 

 post-oak groves or forest; at Harrisburg the grassy cover was in 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



open short-leaf pine woods, at Rosenberg in open park-like country 

 with scattered huisache trees {Vachellia farnesiana) , and at Lane 

 it occured in high grasses in long-leaf pine woods, where the species 

 was locally abundant. 



The earliest date we have for adults of the species is June 30 

 (Shovel Mountain), from which locality we have a fairly regular 

 series of dates until September 18. By far the greater proportion 

 of our dates are in August. One male from Keokuk, Iowa, was 

 taken as late as October first. We have no nymphal material of 

 the species, having secured adults only in our collecting. The 

 species is the earliest maturing form in the eastern states, appar- 

 ently having past its seasonal greatest abundance before August. 



Remarks. — In the past this species has been universally confused 

 with maculipennis, or at least with certain phases of that species, 

 and its present recognition is largely due to the fact that the chro- 

 mosome differences of the two species were recognized by Dr. C. 

 E. McClung, who called our attention to the two forms. The ex- 

 ternal morphological differences separating them may seem trivial, 

 particularly in view of the known variability of coloration and fas- 

 tigial features in this genus, but the more one analyses these di- 

 agnostic features the more evident becomes their taxonomic im- 

 portance in the present instance. The fastigium is broader, shorter 

 and blunter than in maadipennis, and from the side more strongly 

 rounded, while the median carina of the dorsum of the same is also 

 well indicated in the male. The pronotal disk is of a different 

 shape, with its caudal margin more angulate and less rounded. 

 The absence of the subcostal stripe in the male is invariable in the 

 large series now before us, and in addition the species generally 

 has a more decided and richer green and a clearer, more transpa- 

 rent red brown in its coloration than the other species. 



We feel no uncertainty relative to the determination of the spe- 

 cies. 



Specimens examined •.^'^ 225, 144 cf, 819. 



North Carolina: Havelock. 



South Carolina: Lane, Williamsburg County; VII, 20, 1917; 

 (M. Hebard; locally abundant in high grasses in long-leaf pine 

 woods); 33 d', 13 9 ; [Hebard Cln.]. 



Georgia: (H. K. Morrison) 6 d', 3 9 ; [M. C. Z. and U. S. 

 N. M.]." Billy's Island. 



^^ Localities previously recorded by the author or Rehn and Hebard are listed 

 without comment. 



*^ Portion of material reported by Scudder. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



Florida: Fort Barrancas, Escambia County; VIII, 3, 1903; 

 (A. P. Morse); 1 cT ; [Morse Cln.j.^s Pablo Beach. 



Alabama: Chehawhaw Mountain, Talladega County, eleva- 

 tion 2000 to 2400 feet; VII, 13, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 cT, 1 9 

 [Morse Cln.].^^ 



Mississippi: Nugent, Harrison County; VII, 20, 1905; 1 cf 

 [Morse Cln.].'^^ 



Iowa: Keokuk, Lee County; IX, 19, 1913 and X, 1, 1915 

 (M. P. Somes); 2 cf, [Somes Cln.]. 



Nebraska: West Point, Cuming County; IX; 1 cf ; [Hebard 

 Cln. ex Bruner]. 



Kansas: Douglas County, 900 elevation; (C. E. McClung); 

 2 c^; [McClung Cln.]. Richmond, Franklin County; 1910; (Tay- 

 lor); 5 cf, 1 9; [McClung Cln.]. Kingman, Kingman County; 

 1911; (Carothers); 1 cT ; [McClung Cln.]. Barber County; (F. W. 

 Cragin); 2 cf ; [Hebard Cln. ex Bruner]. Independence, Mont- 

 gomery County; VIII and IX, 1907; (A. Birchfield); 3 9 ; [U. S. 

 N. M.]. 



Oklahoma: Mountain Park, Tillman County; VIII, 22, 1905; 

 (A. P. Morse); 1 cf ; [Morse Cln.].^^ Cache, Comanche County; 

 VIII, 23, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 9; [Morse Cln.].^^ Perkins, 

 Payne County; VIII, 13 and 16, 1901; (Mrs. Nellie Caudell and 

 Vivian Cundiff) ; 4 cf, 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.].«» South McAlester, 

 Pittsburg County; VIII, 7, 1905; (A. P. Morse) 1 9 ; [Morse Cln.].^^ 

 Wilburton, Latimer County; VIII, 27, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 cf ; 

 [Morse Cln.]."^ Caddo, Bryan Couiitv; VIII, 8, 1905; (A. P. 

 Morse); 1 cf ; [Morse Cln.]. 



Texas: (Belfrage); 3 cf ; [M. C. Z.'and U. S. N. M.]. Wichita 

 Falls, Wichita County; VIII, 16, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 2 9 ; [Morse 

 Cln.].»9 St. Jo, Montague County; VIII, 14, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 

 1 9 ; [Morse Cln.].^^ Denison, Grayson County; VIII, 12, 1905; 

 (A. P. Morse); 2 c^, 4 9 ; [Morse Cln.].^^ Handley, Tarrant 

 Countv; VIII, 3, 1905; (J. C. Crawford); 1 c^, 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Dallas, Dallas County; (Boll); 3 cf ; [M. C. Z. and U. S. N. M.]: 

 VIII, 14 to 16, 1915; (R.; in grassland); 1 cf , 1 9 . Shovel Moun- 

 tain, Burnet County; VI, 30, VIII, 4 and 5, IX, 4 to 18, 1901; 

 (F. G. Schaupp); 3 cf , 10 9 ; [A. N. S. P.]. Hearne, Robertson 

 County; VIII, 14 and 15, 1915; (H.; in high grass); 2 cf. Nava- 

 sota. Grimes Count}^; VIII, 14, 1915; (H.; common in high grassy 

 areas among post oaks); 10 cf, 7 9. Flatonia, Fayette County; 

 VIII, 19 and 20, 1912; (R. & H.; very abundant ^in tall bunch 

 grass with few weeds, near post oak forest); 30 cf , 21 9 . Colum- 

 bus, Colorado County; 1 cf ; [U. S. N. M.]. Rosenberg, Fort 

 Bend County; VII, 25 and 26, 1912; (H.; locally very abundant 

 in heavy weedy and grassy cover in park-like country) ; 25 cf , 



^* Reported by Morse (see references above). 

 ^^ Reported by Morse (see references above) . 

 ^° Recorded by Caudell (Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, xxviii, p. 84, 1902). 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



10 9. Harrisburg, Harris County; VIII, 13, 1915; (H.; in grassy 

 area in open short-leaf pine woods) ; 1 cf . 



Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis Bniner. Plate VI, flgs. 25 and 26; Plate VII, flgs 

 1-6, 8-14. 



1890. Mermiria maculipennis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, p. 54. 



[cf, 9: San Antonio and Carrizo Springs, Texas.] 

 1893. Mermiria bivittala Townsend (not Opsotnala bivittata Serville, 1839), 



Insect Life, vi, p. 31. [Sabinal, New Mexico; Las Cruces, New Mexico.] 

 1897. Mermiria bivittata McNeill, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi, 



pp. 204 and 205. (In part.) 

 1897. Mermiria maculipennis McNeill, Ibid., pp. 204 and 206. [San 



Antonio and Carrizo Springs, Texas; Risville (err. pro Rioville), Nevada.] 

 1899. Mermiria bivittata Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxxv, 



pp. 41 and 42. (In part.) [Records from Texas, Arizona, New Mexico 



and probably Kansas apply to this form.] 

 1902. Mermiria bivittata Scudder and Cockerell (not Opsomala bivittata 



Serville, 1839), Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., ix, p. 24. [Sabinal, Las Cruces 



and Mesiila, New Mexico.] 

 1904. Mermiria maculipennis Bruner, Biol. Cent. -Amer., Orth., ii, p. 39, 



pi. i, fig. 9. [Carrizo Springs and San Antonio, Texas.] 

 1904. Mermiria bivittata Bruner (not Opsomala bivittata ServiUe, 1839), 



Ibid., p. 39. [Las Cruces and Mesiila, New Mexico; Arizona; New 



Mexico and Texas.] 



1906. Mermiria bivittata Snow (not Opsomala bivittata Serville, 1839), 

 Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., xx, p. 36. [San Bernardino Ranch, Arizona.] 



1907. Mermiria bivittata Morse, Publ. 68, Carneg. Inst. Wash., p. 28. 

 (In part.) [The following records apply to this form: Amarillo, Bonita, 

 Clarendon, Quanah and (part) Wichita Falls, Texas; Mountain Park 

 (in part) and base of Mount Sheridan, Oklahoma.] 



Comparison. — We have given under M. bivittata the leading fea- 

 tures of difference between the two species, while under M. mac- 

 ulipennis macdungi we have discussed the features differentiating 

 the latter race from the typical form of the species. 



Tijpe. — 9 ; San Antonio, Texas. June. (M. Newell.) [Hebard 

 Collection ex Bruner, Type no. 20.] 



The species was originally based on an unnumbered series of both 

 sexes from two localities. Rehn and Hebard have already selec- 

 ted *^^ the above listed specimen as the lectotype. 



The type is of average size for the general region in which it was 

 taken, and its color pattern is much like that seen in individuals 

 in our series from Benevides and Beeville, Texas, but the tone of 

 the pale color is very light and, in a measure at least, due to liquid 

 immersion. 



Allotype.— d^; Carrizo Springs, Dimmit County, Texas. June, 

 [1885]. (A Wadgymar.) [Hebard Collection ex Bruner.] 



Morphological Notes. — In general form the present race exhibits 

 as a whole a more elongate and relatively slender body, when 



«iProc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 62, (1912). 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



compared with M. m. macchingi, but much variation, often of a 

 confusing character, is found in the large series before us. Pro- 

 gressive elongation and slenderness is evident in material from 

 south-central, south to southern Texas, and in the Trans-Pecos 

 region of the same state, particularly emphasized in specimens from 

 the intermontane section of the Rio Gra*nde valley, to at least as far 

 north as Albuquerque, from the northward of which ' point we 

 have no New Mexico material. From southern Arizona, on the 

 other hand, we find the material unusually robust, in this respect 

 paralleled by AI. neo-mexicana, which has identical tendencies in 

 the same region. 



The variation in general form of the fastigium and of the fas- 

 tigio-facial angle is parallel to that found in other species of the 

 genus, show'ing similar variation in single locality series in both 

 sexes, but, as usual, more pronounced in the male than in the fe- 

 male. The extremes of both sexes in three representative fair- 

 sized series show fastigial (horizontal) angles as follows :cf; Bene- 

 vides, Texas, 63°, 72°; Dallas, Texas, 62°, 84°; Albuquerque, New 

 Mexico, 72°, 75°; 9; Benevides, Texas, 73°, 80°; Dallas, Texas, 

 82°, 88°; Albuquerque, New Mexico, 65°, 82°. 



Non-typical material from northern Texas and Oklahoma 

 shows a distinct shortening and relative broadening of the prono- 

 tum, particularly the disk, when compared with central and south 

 Texas individuals. In typical material the caudal margin of the 

 pronotal disk is more broadly and weakly angulate than in the 

 non-typical material, which averages with more distinct and pro- 

 duced angulation. The more apparent median constriction of 

 the disk of the pronotum, when compared with typical M. m. tnac- 

 clungi, is a feature almost invariably characteristic of M. m. mac- 

 iilipennis, while in non-typical northern Texas and Oklahoma 

 material, particularly of the female sex, the tendency is but faintly 

 or not at all indicated. 



The caudal femora show to an extreme degree the variation in 

 robustness frequent in the genus, and occasionally the disparity 

 in proportion of length to breadth is very marked. 



Synonymy. — Fortunately the species, and more particularly 

 this form, has managed to escape synonyms, which is particularly 

 remarkable when its great variability is known, and when the fact 

 that it was first described from a strongly variant and non-diag- 

 nostic color phase is considered. The general practice has been 

 either to use the name bivittata for the northern race here called 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



macclungi, and use maculipennis as a distinct name for the south- 

 ern type, or to consider all inseparable under the name hivittata. 

 That the latter name, as used by McNeill and Scudder, covered 

 representatives of three forms is evident to the present day stu- 

 dent. Caudell once recorded the species from the Brownsville 

 region of Texas as intertextaJ^ 



Measurements (in millirneters) . 



cf Length of Length of Length of Length of 



body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Katherine, Texas 32.8 5.4 2F,A 20.8 



Katherine, Texas 38.5 6 28 24 



Benevides, Texas 29.8 4.9 22.5 18.6 



Benevides, Texas 35.5 5.5 26.6 22.4 



Gregory, Texas 36.4 5.6 26 22 



Gregory, Texas 4L5 6.5 29.4 25.2 



Beeville, Texas 35.8 5.5 27.2 21.5 



Beeville, Texas 36 5.9 26.8 22.5 



Hearne, Texas 32 5 24 19.4 



Hearne, Texas 34.3 5.5 25 21.8 



Carrizo Springs, Texas, allotype 35.5 6 27 21.7 



Marathon, Texas 30 4.7 21.2 18 



Marathon, Texas 32.8 5.4 — 20 



El Paso, Texas 27.2 4 19.8 17.2 



El Paso, Texas 32.5 5.5 24.2 21.5 



Albuquerque, New Mexico . 24.5 4.2 — 15.4 



Albuquerque, New Mexico 29.4 4.9 23 18.2 



Douglas, Arizona 33 5.4 25 19.7 



Palo Alto Ranch, Arizona 31.2 5.6 24.5 19.8 



Rioville, Nevada 39.4 6.3 29.7 23.5 



Atypical 



Dallas, Texas 30.5 4.8 23 18.7 



Dallas, Texas 38 6.5 28 23.5 



BaseofMt. Sheridan, Oklahoma. .. 33.4 5.4 24.8 19.8 



Base of Mt. Sheridan, Oklahoma. . . 34.2 5.5 21 



9 



Katherine, Texas 51.2 7.7 33.4 28.8 



Katherine, Texas 54 8.2 35.4 29.8 



Benevides, Texas 46.8 7.5 34.7 28.4 



Benevides, Texas 51.5 8.2 36.6 31.2 



Corpus ChrLsti, Texas 44 7.6 33.8 27.6 



Corpus Christi, Texas 49.6 7.8 35 30.3 



Beeville, Texas 50 8 37.3 30 



Beeville, Texas 55.5 8.9 38.2 30.6 



Hearne, Texas 43.9 7 31.5 26.5 



Hearne, Te.xas 47 7.2 34 27.5 



San Antonio, Texas, ti/pe 47.6 8 36.4 29.3 



Marathon, Texas 43 6.5 30.6 24.5 



Marathon, Texas 48.4 7.4 34 28.4 



El Paso, Texas 40.8 6.5 32.8 25.6 



El Paso, Texas 52.3 8.1 35.5 30.4 



Albuquerque, New Mexico 38.4 6.6 30.5 25.3 



Albuquerque, New Mexico 43.5 7 33.4 28 



Douglas, Arizona 47 7.5 26.7 27 



Douglas, Arizona 52 8.7 38 28.9 



"Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci., Sci. Bull., i, p. 110, (1904). 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Lenp:th of Length of Length of Length of 

 body. pronotum. tegnien. caudal femur. 



Sycamore Wash, Arizona 49.8 7.8 34.5 26.4 



Riovillc, Nevada 50 8 36 22 



Atypical 



Dallas, Texas 41 6.7 28.9 24.7 



Dallas, Texas 48.5 8.1 37 30 



Mountain Park, Oklahoma 47.5 7.9 34.9 28.5 



From the above measurements it is evident there is a very great 

 amount of individual size variation, while at the same time there 

 is a certain amount of geographic correlation of this feature. The 

 maximum sized specimens are from two regions — one, the south- 

 central portion of Texas; the other, the Rio Colorado region of 

 southern Nevada (Rioville). As we have but a single pair from 

 the latter region, this condition may not be supported in a more 

 extensive representation. The species, as well as the race, is, 

 however, distinctly at its maximum size in the mesquite region 

 of south and south-central Texas, west to the vicinity of Carrizo 

 Springs. The minimum sized individuals are from the Rio Grande 

 region of New Mexico and western Texas, these belonging to the 

 markedly attenuate condition found in that region and discussed 

 under ''Morphological Notes." The atypical specimens from 

 northern and north-central Texas (Dallas and Hearne) are under 

 the average size for the form. 



Color Notes. — The pattern variation in this form covers prac- 

 tically the whole gamut of such fluctuation as found in the genus, 

 the combination of these tendencies or "unit characters" being 

 much the same as in the other species, but the apparent strength 

 of the pattern is very greatly altered by general tonal modifica- 

 tions, which probably are I'esponses to environmental conditions. 

 The relative intensity of the paired cephalic and pronotal post- 

 ocular bars; the relatively solid coloration or maculate condition 

 of the discoidal field of the tegmina, especially in the female sex; 

 the contrast of the pale subcostal line on the tegmina ; the strength, 

 width and continuity of the median dark line on the head and 

 pronotum, and the presence, and intensity and solidity when 

 present, of dark barring on the dorsum of the caudal femora, as 

 well as the depth of the coloration of the caudal tibiae, are all 

 features which, in a series as large as the present one, show kaleido- 

 scopic variation. Of these there appears to be some geographic 

 correlation in the extent to which the blackish of the postocular 

 bars extends upon the dorsum of the pronotum. In material 

 from central and southern Texas this is usual and more extensive 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



and pronounced than in that from other regions, while the ten- 

 dency is infrequent or almost absent in atypical or intermediate 

 (M. m. rnaculipennisxM. m. macclungi) individuals. This exten- 

 sion is always narrower on the prozona than on the metazona, 

 and occasionally is very broad on the latter section, leaving the 

 pale coloration as a narrow median line, which may or may not 

 be pencilled with a median dark line. Rarely the blackish on 

 the metazona is pronounced only at its inner margin, and is almost 

 separated from the lateral bars, thus forming additional longi- 

 tudinal clashes of dark color. Very rarely the postocular bars 

 are subobsolete on the metazona. The width of the actual post- 

 ocular bars and their solidity are variable entirely independent 

 of the extension of the bars, the former feature in both sexes, the 

 latter in the female alone, the bars being invariably solid in the 

 male sex. 



Oblique infra-ocular stripes on the gense are rarely indicated, 

 never complete or solid. A pale area is generally present in the 

 axillary field of the tegmina, and this is of variable width, occa- 

 sionally dark along the sutural margin, producing a dark median 

 line on the closed tegmina. The tegmina of the female in typical 

 southern and central Texas material, and north Texas atypical 

 material, is generally maculate to a greater or lesser degree; in 

 material from west of those regions rarely maculate. In the male 

 sex the tegmina are never more than weakly maculate. 



One male (base of Mount Sheridan, Oklahoma) has a combina- 

 tion of complete broad dorsal bar and strong lateral bars, which 

 greatly suggests M. iexana. 



In general tonal depth the central and south Texas material 

 is strongly intensive, that from north Texas localities slightly 

 weaker, the west Texas specimens and those from the Mesilla 

 region. New Mexico, paler and more grayish overcast, the Albu- 

 querque series very dull and dark, the few Arizona and Nevada 

 specimens brilliant and clear, with light yellow and green tones. 



The general pale color in the male ranges from straw yellow, 

 through barium yellow and amber yellow, light chalcedony yellow, 

 chalcedony yellow to light green-yellow; in the female from light 

 ochraceous-buff, through light ochraceous-salmon, light pinkish 

 cinnamon, dull zinc orange to tawny on one hand; and through 

 ochraceous-buff, barium yellow, mustard yellow to primuline 

 yellow on the other hand. The dark pattern varies from bone 

 brown to blackish brown. The shade of the caudal tibial color 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



ranges from grenadine red through bittersweet orange to bitter- 

 sweet pink on one hand, and through light coral red to testaceous 

 on the other hand. 



Distribution. — From Navasota and Hearne, east-central Texas, 

 westward to south-central (Altar Valley and Baboquivari Moun- 

 tains) and central (Fort Whipple) Arizona and southern Nevada 

 (Rioville), and from the Mexican boundary northward typically 

 as far as Hearne, Midland and Amarillo, Texas, and Dimmit Lake 

 and Albuquerque, New Mexico. Material from localities rang- 

 ing from Dallas, Temple, Ira and Clarendon, Texas, northward 

 over central and western Oklahoma to central Kansas (Clarendon, 

 Belpre and Russell) are atypical or clearly intermediate between 

 M. m. maculipennis and M. m. macdungi. 



The southern race of the species, i. e., typical jnaculipennis, 

 is thus seen hardly to encroach upon the humid section of eastern 

 Texas, while westward its distribution is largely controlled by 

 suitable grasslands, these usually in bolson plains or river valleys. 



The vertical distribution of the race is known to extend from 

 approximately sea-level (Corpus Christi and Gregory, Texas) up 

 to at least 5318 feet (Fort Whipple, Arizona). In Texas we know 

 it ranges from the lowest localities here given to approximately 

 4000 feet (Marathon and Kent). The lowest locality we have 

 for it in Arizona is 3200 feet (Palo Alto Ranch). The Oklahoma 

 localities range between 1360 and 2700 feet above sea-level. The 

 present geographic form, and for that matter the species, reaches 

 sea-level only in the Rio Grande Plain, where, under semi-arid 

 conditions, the species apparently reaches its optimum develop- 

 ment. 



Biological Notes. — The occurrence of this species as a whole, 

 as throughout the genus, is governed by the distribution of grass 

 patches or continuous grass prairie. The present race is typically 

 one of arid and semi-arid regions and its favorite environment is 

 associated with a number of dominant types of vegetation, as 

 groves of high mesquite and clump Opuntia in southern Texas, 

 weedy pastures and prairies in the same region, post oak groves 

 in central Texas, associated with cat-claw (Acacia) in west central 

 Texas, and about composites on river plain in the Rio Grande 

 region of western Texas and southern New Mexico. Sun-cured 

 grass is apparently just as attractive to M. mac. maculipennis as 

 the more succulent green vegetation. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The period of adult occurrence is slightly more than four months, 

 the earliest date being June 12 (CotuUa, Texas), the latest Octo- 

 ber 16 (El Paso, Texas). At Marathon, Texas, it occurs adult 

 as early as July 1 and as late as September 2; Rehn and Hebard 

 have reported it from El Paso as early as July 10 and we now 

 have it as late as October 16 from the same locality, while we 

 have from the adjacent Mesilla region of New Mexico material 

 taken June 28 and 30. The span of the spec'es in the adult con- 

 dition for any one locality can be safely set at about three months. 

 The only immature specimens we have before us were taken July 8 

 (Spofford and Johnstone, Texas) and August 14 to 16 (Dallas), 

 at the latter locality accompanied by adults. 



Remarks. — This race, the typical form of the species, is almost 

 entirely one of the semi-arid and arid grasslands of the south- 

 western United States, occurring in its extreme development in 

 such situations in the Rio Grande Plain and Fayette Prairie region 

 of Texas, as well as in the bolson plains and river valleys of the 

 southern portions of New Mexico, Arizona and Nevada. South- 

 ward and in the Rio Grande region it shows especially pronounced 

 attenuation in form, while Arizona and Nevada material, limited 

 in number though it is, shows a relatively more robust form, re- 

 taining, however, the other characteristics of the race. The 

 optimum development of the species is apparently reached in 

 south-central Texas, although the pair from southern Nevada is 

 very large. In northern Texas the material of this race is less 

 typical, the form somewhat shorter proportionately, the head 

 blunter in general form and the pronotum not as elongate, nor 

 the caudal angle of the disk of the same of the typical broadly 

 rounded condition. As material from more northern localities 

 is examined, the divergence from the southern type becomes more 

 pronounced, until in Nebraska and in western Kansas we have 

 typical mac. macclungi, which is apparently a more northern 

 Great Plains and Great Basin representative of maculipemiis, 

 clearly intergrading, as stated above, when material from inter- 

 vening regions is examined. 



In every series of any size of atypical or intermediate material, 

 certain specimens showing instability and, to a greater or lesser 

 degree, the characters of one or the other extreme will be en- 

 countered. This is particularly pronounced in the three indi- 

 viduals from Amarillo, Texas, one male of which is essentially 

 typical m.. maculipemiis, while the remaining pair are clearly 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



atypical. The Clarendon, Texas, male also strongly indicates a 

 tendency toward macclungi, in a general region where merely 

 atypical yn. maculipennis predominates. 



From the distributional data available it would seem that, in 

 a general way, true maculipennis follows the river valleys north- 

 ward from the region of its widest occurrence, while the higher 

 ground, the benches and ridges, carry southward tendencies toward 

 the more northern maccluyuji. When typical individuals of the 

 two forms are compared they appear widely separated, but a 

 series such as the present one shows the relationship very clearly. 



Specimens examined: 285; 167 cf , 118 9 . 



Texas: Brownsville region; 1 cf ; [B. I.].«3 Mission, Hidalgo 

 County; VIII, 6, 1912; (H.; in arid section covered with high 

 mesquite and a great variety of Opuntia) ; 1 9 . Lyford, Cameron 

 County; VIII, 6 and 7, 1912; (R. & H.; few in weedv field with 

 sand spur); 1 9. Katherine, Willacy County; VIII, 8, 1912; 

 (R. & H.); 5 cf , 3 9 . Gulf Coast of Texas; 1884; (Aaron); 2 cf , 

 1 9 ; [M. C. Z. and U. S. N. M.]. Robstown, Nueces County; 

 VIII, 9, 1912; (R. & H.; on plain of low mesquite, Opuntia and 

 joint cactus, with dry j^ellow grass); 2 cf. Benevides, Duval 

 County; VIII, 9 to 10, 1912; (R. & H.; fairly numerous in cleared 

 pasture overgrown with open stand of woody weeds); 10 cf , 7 9 . 

 Corpus Christi, Nueces County; VII, 29, 1912; (H.); 3 d', 3 9. 

 Gregory, San Patricio County; VII, 30, 1912; (H.; occasional on 

 grassy plain with mesquite); 3 cf. Beeville, Bee County; VII, 

 28, 1912; (H.; common in mesquite region with undergrowth 

 solely of dry 3'ellow grass) ; 12 cf , 12 9 . Victoria, Victoria County; 



VII, 27, 1912; (H.; occasional in field thickly grown up in grasses 

 and other vegetation); 4 c/", 1 9. Flatonia, Fayette Count}^ 

 475 feet; VIII, 19, 1912; (R. & H.); 2 cT, 2 9 . Waelder, Gonzales 

 County; VI, 25, 1897; (A. P. Morse); 1 d^ ; [M. C. Z.]. Navasota, 

 Grimes County; VIII, 14, 1915; (H.; in grassy areas among post 

 oaks); 2 (^ . Hearne, Robertson County; VIII, 14 to 15, 1915; 

 (H.; in sparsely grassed area near oak woods) ; 8 cf , 3 9 . Cotulla, 

 Lasalle County; VI, 12, 1908; (E. S. Tucker); 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. 

 San Antonio, Bexar County; VI; (M. Newell); 1 9, type; [Hebard 

 Collection ex Brunei-]. Uvalde, Uvalde County, 1000 to 1100 

 feet; VIII, 21 to 22, 1912; (R. & H.; scarce on slopes among low 

 Acacia)\ 2 cf, 2 9. Carrizo Springs, Dimmit County; VI, 1885; 

 (A. Wadgymar); 1 cf, allotype; [Hebard Collection ex Bruner]. 

 Del Rio, Valverde County, 900 to 1100 feet; VIII, 22, 1912; (R. & 

 H.); 2 d', 2 9 . Marathon, Brewster Countv, 3940 to 4160 feet; 



VIII, 1 to 2, 1916; VIII, 20, 1916; (R.; scarce in moister areas); 

 VIII, 26 to 27 and IX, 2, 1912; (R. & H.; common everywhere 

 on plain where high grass occurred); 9 cf, 7 9. Garden Spring, 



^ Reported by Caudell as M. intertexta. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Brewster County; IX, 2, 1912; (R. & H.); 1 &. Kent, Culberson 

 County; 3900 to 4200 feet; IX, 17 to 18, 1912; (R. & H.; scarce 

 in tall grasses near water); 2 cf , 1 9 . El Paso, El Paso County, 

 3650 to 3700 feet; IX, 16, 1912 and X, 16, 1910; (R. & H.; fairly 

 abundant in low composites along river plain); 8 cf , 8 9 . Mid- 

 land, Midland County, 2779 feet; (R. & H.; very scarce in prairie 

 area); 1 cf. Amarillo, Potter County; VIII, 19, 1905; (A. P. 

 Morse); 1 cT ; [Morse Cln.]. 



New Mexico: Dimmit Lake, near Roswell, Chaves County; 

 (Cockerell); 1 d' ; [U. S. N. M.]. Mesilla, Dona Ana County; 

 VI, 28 and 30, 1897; (A. P. Morse); 3 c^, 1 9 ; [M. C. Z.]. Mesilla 

 Park, Dona Ana County, 3800 feet; VII, 16 (one specimen); 

 (Cockerell); 2 d^, 1 9 ; [U. S.> N. M. and M. C. Z.]. Las Cruces, 

 Dona Ana County; VIII, 12; 1 d' ; [Hebard Cln.]. Sabinal, So- 

 corro County; VIII, 7; (C. H. T. Townsend); 4 d", 1 9 ; [M. C. Z. 

 and U. S. N. M.]. 



Arizona: Douglas, Cochise Count}^; VIII; (F. H. Snow); 2 d^, 

 3 9 ; [U. S. N. M. and A. N. S. P.]. Lower end of Sycamore 

 Wash, Altar Valley, Pima County, about 3400 feet; X, 6 and 9, 

 1910; (R. & H.; in dry yellow grass); 1 9. Palo Alto Ranch, 

 Altar Valley, Pima County, 3200 feet; X, 10, 1910; (R. & H.; 

 in meadow of coarse green bunch grass); 1 d^. Fort Grant, Gra- 

 ham County; 1882; 1 d', 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. Fort Whipple, 

 Yavapai County; (E. Palmer); 1 d^ ; [Hebard Cln.]. 



Nevada: Rioville,"^ Clark County; VIII, 2, 1891; 1 d", 1 9; 

 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Atypical 



Texas: Ira, Scurry County; VIII, 7, 1901; (E. G. Francis); 

 1 d'; [U. S. N. M.]. Amarillo, Potter County; VIII, 19, 1905; 

 (A. P. Morse); 1 d^, 1 9; [Morse Cln.]." Quanah, Hardeman 

 County; VIII, 21, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 2 cT, 1 9 ; [Morse Cln.]." 

 Wichita Falls, Wichita County: VIII, 15, 1905; (A. P. Morse) 

 1 (^] [Morse Cln.]." Byers, Clav County; VII, 1910; (Isely) 

 1 c^; [U. S. N. M.]. Bonita, Montague County; VIII, 14, 1905 

 (A. P. Morse); 1 d" ; [Morse Cln.]." Cisco, Eastland Countv, 

 1450 to 1550 feet; IX, 21 and 22, 1912; (R. & H.; common m 

 meadow); 9 d", 13 9 .«« Weatherford, Parker County, 1000 to 

 1100 feet; IX, 23, 1912; (R. & H.; scarce in high grasses) ; 1 c^, 1 9 . 

 Dallas, Dallas County; VIII, 14 to 16, 1915; (R.; common in 

 grasses in prairie region and in fringe of low oaks and junipers, 

 nymphs also present); 29 d^, 25 9 : VII, 16 (two specimens); 

 (Boll); 6 d^, 3 9 ; [M. C. Z. and U. S. N. M.]." Sagamore Hill, 

 Tarrant County, 650 feet; IX, 27, 1912; (R. & H.; grass patches 



*'• Erroneously given as Risville by McNeill, on the basis of the same material, 



" Recorded by Morse (Publ. 68, Carneg. Inst. Wash., p. 28, 1907) as bivittata. 



^^ A minority of this material is nearly typical, but the majority from this 

 locality is appreciably atypical. 



*^ Quite a few of this series are nearly typical of maculipennis maculipemiis, 

 particularly males, but the majority are atypical, the females almost entirely so. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



among skin oaks); 1 9. Handley, Tarrant County; VIII, 3, 

 1905; (J. C. Crawford); 3 d"; [U. S. N. M.]. Bosque County; 

 IX, 10; (Belfrage); 1 d^ ; [M. C. Z.]. Temple, Real County, 710 

 feet; IX, 24, 1912; (R. & H.); 2 9. 



Oklahoma: Mountain Park, Kiowa County; VIII, 22, 1905; 

 (A. P. Morse); 1 9; [Morse Cln.].«5 Base of Mount Sheridan, 

 Wichita Mountains, Comanche County; VIII, 24, 1905; (A. P. 

 Morse); 1 d"; [Alorse Chi.J.es 



Intermediate between M. m. maculi'pennis and M. m. macdungi. 



Texas: Clarendon, Donley County; VIII, 18, 1905; (A. P. 

 Morse); 1 cf ; [Morse Cln.]." 



Oklahoma: Base of JNIount Sheridan, Wichita Mountains, 

 Comanche County; VIII, 24, 1905; (A. P. Morse); 1 d" ; [Morse 

 Cln.].« Perkins, Payne County, VIII, 13, 1901; (Nellie Caudell); 

 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. 



Kansas: Clearwater, Sedgwick County; VIII, 1904; (F. B. 

 Isely); 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. Wichita, Sedgwick County; IX, 19 

 1 d"; [U. S. N. M.]. Belpre, Edwards County; IX, 13, 1909 

 (H.; in short grass); 1 cf. Clarendon, Barton County; VII, 26 

 1891; 2 cT; [U. S. N. M.]. Dorrance, Russell County; 1910 

 (C. E. McClung); 1 9 ; [McClung Cln.]. Russell, Russell County 

 (C. E. McClung); 3 & ; [McClung Cln.]. Wellington, Sumner 

 County; VI, 1909; (F. G. Kelly); 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]. Barber 

 County; (F. W. Cragin) ; 1 9; [Hebard Cln. ex Brunei-]. Hill 

 City, Graham County; 1909; (C. E. McClung); 2 d" ; [McClung 

 Cln.]. Garden City, Finney County, (F. B. MilUken); 1 cT; 

 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Mermiria maculipennis macclungi new subspecies.^* Plate VII, figs. 15-24. 



1872. Opomola bivittata Dodge (not Opsomala bivittata Serville, 1839), 

 Canad. Entom., iv, p. 1.5. [Between Platte River and Omaha, Nebraska.] 



1877. Opomala bivittata Bruner (not Opsomala bivittata Serville, 1839), 

 Ibid., ix, p. 144. [Nebraska.] 



1897. Mermiria bivittata McNeill, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., vi, 

 pp. 204 and 20.5. (In part.) [State records from Nebraska and prob- 

 ably Illinois apply to this form.] 



^* It is not possible to determine whether the following references relate to 

 true bivittata or to mac. macdungi. 



1865. Opomala bivittata Thomas, Trans. 111. State Agric. Soc, v, p. 447. 



[Illinois.] 

 1877. Opomala bivittata Bessey, Bienn. Rep. Iowa Agric. Coll., vii, p. 207. 



[Iowa.] 

 1880. Mermiria bivittata Thomas, Rep. Entom. 111., ix, pp. 87, 92 and 97. 



[Illinois.] 

 1892. Mermiria bivittatus Osborn, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., i, pt. 2, p. 118. 



[Iowa.] 

 1897. Mermiria bivittata Ball, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., iv, p. 238. [Iowa.] 

 Isely (Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., xix, p. 241, (1905)) has recorded bivittata 

 from Sedgwick County, Kansas, east of Fairmount and Brown County, Kansas. 

 If these do not refer to true bivittata, the first two represent intermediates be- 

 tween M. TO. maculipennis and M. to. macdungi, the last one probably M. m. 

 macdungi. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



1899. Mermiria hivittata Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., xxxv, 

 pp. 41 and 42. (In part.) [State records from Nebraska, Colorado, 

 Utah and possibly Iowa apply to this form.] 



1903. Mermiria texana Caudell, Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, p. 780. (In 

 part.) [Material from Fort Collins, Colorado.] 



1904. Mermiria biviltala Gillette (not Opsomaln hivittata Serville, 1839), 

 Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 23. [Fort Collins, Laporte, Windsor, 

 Greeley, Orchard, Julesburg, Wray, Rockj'ford and Holly, Colorado.] 



1907. Mermiria bivittata Hart (not Opsomala hivittata Serville, 1839), 

 Bull. 111. State Labor. Nat. Hist., vii, p. 231. [Havana, Meredosia, 

 Tamaroa and Chatauqua, Illinois.] 



1913. Mermiria bivittata Vestal (not Opsomala bivittata Serville, 1839), 

 Ibid., X, p. 20. [Havana, Illinois.] 



This well-marked race can be distinguished in typical material 

 from M. mac. maculipennis by the less attenuate and relatively 

 more robust form, the shorter and relatively broader pronotum, 

 which is not appreciably constricted mesad, the caudal angle of 

 the disk of the pronotum being more distinctly produced and 

 angulate, the eyes of the female being less prominent from the 

 dorsum and by the generally smaller size. Under Mer. mac. maculi- 

 pennis we have discussed the relationship and intergradation of 

 the two forms. 



Type.— d" ; Forsyth, Rosebud County, Montana. July 27, 1909. 

 (Morgan Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 445.] 



Description of Type. — Form more robust and less attenuate 

 than in M. viae, maculipennis; size smaller.''^ Head with fastigio- 

 facial angle less acute, more truncate in lateral aspect, the facial 

 line less strongly declivent. Antennse proportionately longer, 

 their length equal to at least four-fifths that of the caudal femora. 

 Pronotum distinctly shorter and proportionately broader, the 

 greatest caudal width contained about one and one-half times in 

 the greatest length of the same, narrowing of the dorsum of the 

 prozona less pronounced than in M. mac. maculipennis; caudal 

 margin of the disk of the pronotum more distinctly, though very 

 broadly; obtuse-angulate, with the immediate angle less rounded. 



Allotype. — 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Form and size as in male. Antennae 

 proportionately longer. Pronotum distinctly shorter, and broader 

 proportionately, the narrowing of the dorsum of the prozona 

 less pronounced than in M. mac. maculipennis. 



Paratypic Series. — We have before us fourteen males and one 

 female, bearing the same data as the type and allotype, which we 



^' The small individuals of M. 7nac. maculipennis from the Rio Grande region, 

 from El Paso to Albuquerque, are hardly or not at all larger than M. mac. mac- 

 clungi, but they are distinctly more slender in every way. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



consider paratypes. These are located in the Hebard Collection 

 and that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Morphological Notes. — As already shown, the present race is a 

 shorter, relatively more robust form than M. mac. maculi'pennis. 

 It shows much less variation in the morphological features men- 

 tioned under the typical form of the species than does the latter, 

 while such progressive elongation and slenderness as is there evi- 

 dent is not found in typical macclungi, being, apparent only in 

 the individuals intermediate in character between M. mac. maculi- 

 'pennis and M. mac. macclungi. The extremes of both sexes in 

 three representative fair-sized series show variations in the fas- 

 tigial (horizontal) angle as follows: cf ; Forsyth, Montana, 71.5°, 

 87°; Fort Collins, Colorado, 68.5°, 76°; North Platte, Nebraska, 

 77.5°, 87°: 9 ; Forsyth, Montana, 84.5° (no variation); Fort Col- 

 lins, Colorado, 85°, 87°; North Platte, Nebraska, 80.5°, 89.5°. 



Synonymy. — The general misidentification of this form as hi- 

 vittata has already been discussed. Caudell's reference of Fort 

 Collins material of this race to M. texana was an error in identifi- 

 cation, as the material, now before us, shows. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 

 cT body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Forsyth, Montana, /!/pc 26 4.5 19.7 16.3 



Forsyth. Montana, para/T/pe 26.2 4.3 18.8 16 



Forsyth, Montana, paratype 29.3 5 21.6 17.4 



Julesburg, Colorado 25.3 4.5 19.6 16 



Julesburg, Colorado 27.3 4.3 19.7 15 



Fort ColHns, Colorado 27.2 4.4 19.2 15.9 



Fort Collins, Colorado 30.8 4.8 20.8 16.9 



Pueblo, Colorado 29.3 5 21.2 18.1 



Pueblo, Colorado 32 4.9 23.6 19 



Glen, Nebraska 21 4.2 19.7 15 



Glen, Nebraska 27.2 4.5 19.2 16.1 



North Platte, Nebraska 25 4.1 18.9 15.8 



North Platte, Nebraska 27.4 4.5 19.4 16 



West Point, Nebraska 26.1 4.5 19.8 15.6 



West Point, Nebraska 28.4 4.9 22 17.8 



Salt Lake City, Utah 28 4.6 18.3+ 17 



Salt Lake Valley, Utah 28.5 4.7 20.5 17.3 



9 



Forsyth, Montana, allotype 43.6 6.6 28.5 22.5 



Forsyth, Montana, paratype 45 6.5 28.5 22.2 



Glendive, Montana 41.2 6.5 27.7 21.8 



Julesburg, Colorado 37 5.5 27.5 21.2 



Fort Colhns, Colorado 38.3 6.3 30.8 23.7 



Fort Collins, Colorado 40.5 6.5 28.2 22.3 



Pueblo, Colorado 40 6.7 31 25.4 



Pueblo, Colorado 41 7 32.3 25.2 



Glen, Nebraska 36 6.3 27 22.4 



8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 

 body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur. 



Glen, Nebraska 41 6.4 29.7 23.2 



North Platte, Nebraska 37.8 5.8 26 21 



North Platte, Nebraska 42 6.5 30.2 23.9 



West Point, Nebraska 38 6.4 27.8 22 



West Point, Nebraska 42 6.7 29 23.5 



Syracuse, Kansas 48.4 7 32 26 



Hollister, Missouri 34 5.5 27 21.2 



Muscatine, Iowa 37 6.3 30 23.2 



Onawa, Iowa 37.7 6.5 28.5 22.5 



Lone Rock, Wisconsin 32.7 5.4 23.8 19.5 



Havana, Illinois 39.5 5.5 25.6 22.2 



Maple Peak, Utah 43 7 30.5 25.4 



Maple Peak, Utah 42.5 6.5 29.2 25 



Atypical 



Clarendon, Kansas 29.5 5 20.5 17.4 



Clarendon, Kansas 30.3 5.3 24.2 19.5 



9 



Clearwater, Kansas 42.8 7.5 32 25 



Barber County, Kansas 43 7.6 34 26.5 



From these measurements it is evident that while the maximum 

 sized individuals are from the more southern portion of the range 

 of the race, as would be expected from the average larger size of 

 Mer. mac. maculipennis, the smallest specimens are, as might be 

 inferred, from the more northern localities. Unfavorable environ- 

 ment may be responsible for the minimum sized individuals occur- 

 ring in the sand-hill regions of Nebraska and Illinois, and the 

 high plains region of northeastern Colorado, but peripheral de- 

 pauperation may be as responsible for the Illinois cases, as well 

 as the remarkably small size of the Hollister, Missouri; Onawa 

 and Muscatine, Iowa and Lone Rock, Wisconsin, specimens. 



Color Notes. — The color description of the race as a whole, based 

 on all of our typical material, is as follows: 



Base color ranging from dirty cream-buff through ivory yellow 

 and honey yellow to olive-yellow on one hand, and through pinkish 

 buff, cinnamon-buff and vinaceous-cinnamon to clay color on 

 the other hand. This base color is often clearer and purer ventrad 

 of the lateral bars on the sides of the body, slightly or distinctly 

 suffused on the dorsum. The paired lateral bars range in tone 

 from sepia, through bister and bone brown to brownish black. 

 Antennae varying in tone from pale zinc orange and dull och- 

 raceous-buff, to ferruginous and cinnamon-brown, always some- 

 what darkened distad; eyes ranging from hazel and dresden brown 

 to chestnut brown; face rarely infuscate, and then not strongly 

 so, with the adjacent portions of the genae equally or more de- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



cidedly infuscate, leaving a narrow pale postocular line ventrad 

 of the dark line; dorsum of the head rarely with a distinct medio- 

 longitudirial dark line, which, when present, is almost never com- 

 plete, being divided in two longitudinally, and when continued 

 on the pronotum represented only by a hair line on the median 

 carina. 



Tegmina with the base color generally more grayish than the 

 general pale color, more approximating drab, benzo brown and 

 hair brown, the proximal half of the marginal and discoidal fields 

 suffused to a greater or lesser degree with the dark color, this 

 weakly maculate in the female, and in both sexes persistent distad 

 only along the humeral trunk; subcostal stripe indicated in both 

 sexes, ranging from sulphur yellow to aniline yellow and buck- 

 thorn brown. Caudal femora of the general color, occasionally 

 washed with the darker color along the dorsal section of the external 

 face; transverse dark bars on the dorsal face of the caudal femora 

 are almost never indicated in typical material of macclungi, al- 

 though suggested in many intermediate individuals: caudal tibise 

 ranging from carnelian red and mikado brown to coral red, spines 

 black tipped. 



There is a geographic correlation in color tone which is fairly 

 evident in the case of the material from the Platte Valley in Neb- 

 raska, these being on an average distinctly paler, and this is as 

 true of the few (4) from Kearney as for the extensive sand-hill 

 series from North Platte. Certain other color correlations might 

 be mentioned, but the series, in each case, is not extensive enough 

 to warrant comment. 



The extension of the dark lateral bars on the sides of the dorsum 

 of the pronotum, as found in Mer. mac. maculipennis, is present 

 in this race, but is not common, three males alone having it indi- 

 cated. Material intermediate between this race and true maculi- 

 pennis shows this more generally indicated. 



Distribution. — Fron the eastern Yellowstone Valley of Montana 

 (Forsyth and Glendive) south typically to southern Nebraska 

 (Lincoln and Haigler), western Kansas (Syracuse), southern Colo- 

 rado (Holly and Pueblo) and northern Utah (Salt Lake City and 

 Maple Peak). The eastern limit of the range is apparently reached 

 in south-central Wisconsin (Lone Rock), the central axis of Illinois 

 and southern Missouri (Hollister), while westward it is unknown 

 beyond the Utah localities given above. For data on the area 

 occupied by intermediates between Mer. mac. maculipennis and 

 Mer. mac. macclungi see under the former. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The vertical distribution of the form extends from as low as 

 454 feet (Meredosia, Illinois) to as high as 5000 to 6500 feet (Maple 

 Peak). Northward it is known only from relatively low eleva- 

 tions (2515 feet; Forsyth), while in Nebraska it occurs up to about 

 4500 feet (Glen) and in Colorado to at least 5069 feet (Laporte). 



The present form is seen to be a Great Plains and Great Basin 

 type, spreading eastward in suitable environments under satis- 

 factory temperature conditions. 



Biological Notes. — Grassy patches and stretches of sparse short 

 grass are frequented by this form, these in a variety of situations, 

 i. e. on bench of the Great Plains (Forsyth and Julesburg), on 

 river plain and adjacent sand-hills (North Platte), on the slopes 

 of hills and foothills (Kearney and Salt Lake City) and on gently 

 rolling plains (Syracuse). 



The available data shows the species occurs adult as early as 

 July 8 and as late as September 14, at the same locality (Rocky 

 Ford, Colorado) . This locality is very near the southern limit of 

 typical material of the form, and therefore probably represents 

 the region of maximum summer conditions within the form's range. 

 From the more northern region the earliest date we have is July 27 

 (Forsyth), but the deficiency of data prevents us from giving any 

 late records from the same region. 



Remarks. — This typically very distinct race is the northern adap- 

 tation of Menniria maculipennis, intergrading, as already shown, 

 into true macuUpennis in Kansas and Oklahoma, the north Texas 

 material being much nearer typical maculipeniiis than m.macclungi. 

 Its relationship to the large south Texan macuUpennis has never 

 been clearly indicated in the past, and material of the present 

 form has almost invariably been recorded as hivittata, to which 

 species macclungi is not closely related. 



We take great pleasure in dedicating this interesting and striking 

 form to Dr. C. E. McClung, of the University of Pennsylvania, 

 who, from cytological evidence, first called our attention to this 

 race, and also to the distinctness of true hivittata from the other 

 forms with which it had been confused and associated. 



Specimens examined: 113; 56 cf, 55 9,2 immature 9 . 



Montana: Glendive, Dawson Countv; 1 9 ; [Hebard Cln. ex 

 Bruner]. Forsyth, Rosebud County; VII, 27, 1909; (H.; in can- 

 yon in bench of plains); 15 cf, 2 9, type, allotype and paratypes. 



Nebraska: Valentine, Cherry County; (L. Bruner); 2 cf' ; 

 [Hebard Cln. ex Bruner and U. S. N. M.]. Chadron, Dawes 

 County; (L. Bruner); 1 cf, 1 9; [Hebard Cln. ex Bruner and 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



U. S. N. M.]. Fort Robinson, Dawes County; VIII, 1888; 1 d" ; 

 [Hebard Cln. ex Brunei-]. Glen, Sioux County; VIII, 6 to 20, 

 1903; (L. Bruner); 3 d", 2 9 ; [Hebard Cln. ex Bruner]. Sidney, 

 Cheyenne County; 1 9 ; [Hebard Cln. ex Bruner]. North Platte, 

 Lincoln County, 2850 feet; VII, 28, 1910; (R. & H.; common in 

 short grass on river plains and adjacent sand-hills); 15 cf, 15 9. 

 Broken Bow, Custer County; VII, 1889; 1 9 ; [Hebard Cln. ex 

 Bruner]. Kearney, Buffalo County, 2146 feet; VII, 27, 1910; 

 (R. & H.; uncommon on hills covered with short grasses); 4 9. 

 West Point, Cuming County; VII, 10, 1887 (one), IX (three); 

 6 cf, 5 9,1 immature 9 (no date); {Hebard Cln. ex Bruner]. 

 Fontanelle, Washington County; 1876; 1 9 ; [Hebard Cln. ex 

 Bruner]. Lincoln, Lancaster County; VIII & IX; (L. Bruner); 

 1 cf, 4 9, 1 immature 9; [Hebard Cln. ex Bruner]. Burnham, 

 Lancaster County; VIII, 30, 1911; (L. Bruner); 1 9; [Hebard 

 Cln. ex Brunei-]. Haigler, Dundy County; 1 cf ; [Hebard Cln. ex 

 Brunei-]. Stratton, Hitchcock County; VII, 14, 1899; 1 cf ; [U. S. 

 N. M.]. 



Colorado: Julesburg, Sedgwick County, 3460 to 3550 feet; 

 VII, 29, 1910; (R. & H.; on plains escarpment scantily clothed 

 with grass and sage); 2 cf , 1 9 . Poudre (Canyon; VIII, 30, 1898; 

 1 cf ; [U. S. N. M.]. Fort Collins, Larimer County; VIII, 9, 1901; 

 (Dyar and Caudell) ; 1 c^, 1 9 ; [U. S. N. M.]"^: VIII, 8 and 19, 

 1898; 1 cf , 2 9 ; [Hebard Cln. and A. N. S. P.]. Denver, Denver 

 County; (Beale); 1 9; [Hebard Cln.]. Pueblo, Pueblo County; 

 VII, 28, 1878; 1 cf , 2 9 ; [Cornell Univ. Cln.]: 4700 feet; VII, 30 

 and 31, 1877; 1 cf ; [M. C. Z.]. Rocky Ford, Otero County; VII, 

 8, 1899 and IX, 14, 1898; 1 cf , 1 9 ; [A. N. S. P.]. 



Kansas: Syracuse, Hamilton County, 3230 feet; IX, 12, 1909; 

 (R. & H. ; on plain covered with short grass) ; 1 9 . 



Wisconsin: Lone Rock, Richland County; VIII, 21, 1906; 

 1 9 ; [111. State Lab. Nat. Hist.]. 



Iowa: Onawa, Monona County; IX, 2, 1914; (M. P. Somes); 

 1 9 ; [Somes Cln.]. Muscatine, Muscatine County; VII, 10, 1909; 

 (iVI. R. Somes); 2 9 ; [Somes Cln.]. 



Illinois: Havana, Mason County; VIII, 7, 1908; 1 9 ; [111. 

 State Lab. Nat. Hist.]. 



Missouri: Hollister, Taney County; VIII, 1913; (M. P. Somes); 

 1 9 ; [Somes Cln.]. 



Utah: Salt Lake City, 4500 feet; IX, 7, 1909; (R. & H.; in 

 grasses near base of foothills); 1 cf. Salt Lake "S'alley; VIII, 

 2, 1896; 1 cf ; [A. N. S. P.]. Maple Peak, Wasatch Mountains, 

 Salt Lake County, 5000 to 6500 feet; IX, 7, 1909; (R. & H.); 2 9 . 



7" Recorded by Caudell (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, p. 780, (1903)) as texana. 




118 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



Explanation of Plates V, VI, VII. 



Texas. Lateral view of head 



Sanderson, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 

 Sanderson, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 



pLATE V. — Fig. 1. — Mermiria texana. 9. Pine Mountain, Davis Mountains, 

 Texas. Lateral view. (Xlj.) 

 Fig. 2. — Mermiria texana. (f . Sanderson, 



and pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 3. — Mermiria texana. cf. 

 tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 4. — Mermiria texana. cf. 

 tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 5. — Mermiria texana. cf. 



Texas. Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 6. — Mermiria texana. cf. Persimmon Gap, Santiago 



Texas. Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 1 .—Mermiria texana. cf- Pine Mountain, Davis Mountains, Texas. 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 cf. Pine Mountain, Davis Mountains, 

 (Greatly enlarged.) 



Persimmon Gap, Santiago 



Mountains, 

 Mountains, 



Texas. 



Marathon, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 

 Marathon, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 



Texas. Dorsal view of pro- 



Dorsal view of fastigium. 

 Fig. 8. — Mermiria texana. 



Dorsal view of fastigium. 

 Fig. 9. — Mermiria texana. 



tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 10.- — Mermiria texana. 9 • 



tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 11. — Mermiria texana. cf. 



notum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 12. — Mermiria texana. 9 ■ 



notum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 13.— Mermiria texana. 9 • 



notum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 14. — Mermiria texana. cf. 



of abdomen. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 15. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



(XU.) 

 Fig. 16.- — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



head and pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 17. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. cf- Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari 



Mountains, Arizona. Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 18. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. cf. Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. 



Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Sanderson, 



Marathon, 



Marathon, 



Sanderson, 



. Dallas, 

 cf . Syracuse, Kansas 



Texas. Dorsal view of pro- 

 Texas. Dorsal view of pro- 

 Texas. Lateral view of apex 



Texas. Lateral view. 



Lateral view of 



^. 



&. 



&. 



Syracuse, 

 Syracuse, 



Dallas, 

 Havana, 



Dallas, 



Kansas. Dorsal view of 



Kansas. Dorsal view of 

 Texas. Dorsal view of 

 Illinois. Dorsal view of 

 Texas. Dorsal view of 



Fig. 19. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 20. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 21. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 22. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 23. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 24. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 25. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



of pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 26. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 27.- — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 



Lateral view of apex of abdomen 

 Fig. 28. — Mermiria alacris. 9 . Pensacola, Florida. Lateral view 

 Fig. 29. — Mermiria alacris. cf. Pensacola, Florida. Lateral 



head and pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 30. — Mermiria alacris. c?". Bainbridge, Georgia. Dorsal 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 



c^. 



Dallas, Texas. Dorsal view of 

 Syracuse, Kansas. Dorsal view 

 Dallas, Texas. Dorsal view of 



(^ . Baboquivari Mountains, 

 (Greatly enlarged.) 



Arizona. 



(XU.) 

 view of 



view of 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



119 



Fig. 31. — Mermiria alacris. <^. 

 fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Bainbridge, Georgia. Dorsal view of 



Fig. 32. — Mermiria alacris 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 33. — Mermiria alacris. cf. Dallas, Texas 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 34. — Mermiria alacris. cT. 



tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 35. — Mermiria alacris. cf. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Plate VI. — Fig. 1. — Mermiria alacris. 



of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 2. — Mermiria alacris. if. Bainbridge, 



notum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 3. — Mermiria alacris. 9 . Pensacola, 



notum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 4. — Mermiria alacris. cf ■ Bainbridge, 



of abdomen. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 5. — Mermiria inlerlexla. 9 • 



.(XU.) 

 Fig. 6. — Mermiria intertexta. cf . 



of head and pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 7. — Mermiria intertexta. cf • 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 8. — Mermiria intertexta. cf. 



fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 9. — Mermiria intertexta. cT. 



of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 10. — Mermiria intertexta. d'. Atlantic Beach, Florida. 



of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 11. — Mermiria intertexta. 9- 



of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 12. — Mermiria intertexta. cf. 



of pronotum . ( X 3 . ) 

 Fig. 13. — Mermiria intertexta. 9 . 



of pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 14. — Mermiria intertexta. cf- 



of apex of abdomen. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 , Fig. 15. — Mermiria biviitata. 9 . Flatonia, Texas. 

 Fig. 16. — Mermiria bivittata. cf . 



and pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 17. — Mermiria bivittata. cf- 



tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 18. — Mermiria bivittata. cf. 



tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 19. — Mermiria bivittata. 9 . 



tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 20. — Mermiria bivittata. 9 . 



tigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 21.^ — -Mermiria bivittata. d^. 



cf. Dallas, Texas. Dorsal view of fastigium. 



Dorsal view of fastigium. 



Pensacola, Florida. Dorsal view of fas- 



Waurika, Oklahoma. Dorsal view of 



Pensacola, Florida. Dorsal view 

 Georgia. Dorsal view of pro- 

 Florida. Dorsal view of pro- 

 Georgia. Lateral view of apex 

 Tybee Island, Georgia. Lateral view. 

 Tybee Island, Georgia. Lateral view 

 Tybee Island, Georgia. Dorsal view of 

 Tybee Island, Georgia. Dorsal view of 

 Atlantic Beach, Florida. Dorsal view 



Tybee 

 Tybee 

 Tybee 

 Tybee 



Island, 

 Island, 

 Island, 

 Island, 



Georgia. 



Georgia. 



Georgia. 



Georgia. 



Lateral 

 Lateral 



Dorsal view 

 Dorsal view 

 Dorsal view 

 Dorsal view 

 Lateral view 



view, 

 view 



(XU.) 

 of head 



Flatonia, Texas. 



Flatonia, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 



Flatonia, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 



Navasota, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 



Navasota, Texas. Dorsal view of fas- 



notum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 22. — Mermiria bivittata 



notum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 23. — Mermiria 



bivittata. cf 



of abdomen. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 24. — Mermiria bivittata. cf. Flatonia, Texas. 



.(X2.) 

 Fig. 25. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 9 



eral view. (Xlj) 

 Fig. 26. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 



Lateral view of head and pronotum. (XlJ.) 



Flatonia, Texas. Dorsal view of pro- 

 Flatonia, Texas. Dorsal view of pro- 

 Flatonia, Texas. Lateral view of apex 



Lateral view of tegmen. 

 . Lyford, Te.xas. Lat- 

 cf . Benevides, Texas. 




120 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 







El Paso, Texas. Dorsal 

 Benevides, Texas. Dor- 

 Benevides, Texas. Dor- 

 Dallas, Texas. Dorsal 

 Dallas, Texas. Dorsal 



Canyon, Baboquivari 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 .El Paso, Texas. Dor- 



Sycamore 

 fastigium. 



Canyon, 

 (Greatly 



Plate VII. — Fig. 1. — Mermiria maculipenms maculipennis. cf. El Paso, Texas 



Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 2. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. d^ 



view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 3. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipeniiis. 



sal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 4. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 



sal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 5. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 



view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 6. — Mermiria maculipennis macalipennis. 



view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 7. — Mermiria neo-mexicana. 9 ■ Sycamore 



ISIountains, Arizona. Dorsal view of fastigium 

 Fig. S.— Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 9 



sal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 9. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 9 • 



Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona. Dorsal view of 



enlarged.) 

 Fig. 10. — Mermiria maculipennis macrdipennis. 9 ■ 



Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 11. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 9 



Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 12. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 



Dorsal view of pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 13. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 



Dorsal view of pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 14. — Mermiria maculipennis maculipennis. 



Lateral view of apex of abdomen. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 15. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. cf (type.) 



tana. Lateral view. (X3.) 

 Fig. 16. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. cf (paratype.) Forsyth, 



Montana. Lateral view of apex of abdomen. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 17. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. c^ (type.) Forsyth, Mon- 

 tana. Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 18. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. cT {paratype.) 



Montana. Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 19. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. d'. 



Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 20. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. cf. 



Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 21. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. 9 



tana. Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 22. — Mermiria maculipennis macclungi. 9 • Kearney, Nebraska. 



Dorsal view of fastigium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 23. — Mermiria macclungi. 9 {allotype.) Forsyth, Montana. Dorsal 



view of pronotum. (X3.) 

 Fig. 24. — Mermiria maculipeniiis macclungi. 9 • Kearney, Nebraska. 



Dorsal view of pronotum. (X3.) 



cf. 



cf. 



Katherine, 

 Katherine, 

 Benevides, 

 Katherine, 

 Benevides, 

 Forsyth, 



Texas. 

 Texas. 

 Texas. 

 Texas. 

 Texas. 



Mon- 



Forsyth, 



North Platte, Nebraska. 



North Platte, Nebraska. 



{allotijpe.) Forsyth, Mon- 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919. 



PLATE I. 



GARDNER AND ALDRICH: MIOCENE MOLLUSC A. 





PROG. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919. 



PLATE II. 



GARDNER AND ALDRICH: MIOCENE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919. 



PLATE III. 



GARDNER AND ALDRICH: MIOCENE MOLLUSC A. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919. 



PLATE IV. 



GARDNER AND ALDRICH: MIOCENE MOLLUSC A. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919. 



PLATE V. 



REHN: GENUS MERMIRIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919. 



PLATE VI. 



REHN: GENUS MERMIRIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919. 



PLATE VII. 



REHN: GENUS MERMIRIA. 





1919.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



April 15. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Forty persons present. 



The deaths of David Jayne Bullock, a member, March 19, 1919, 

 and Frederick D. Godman, a correspondent, February 19, 1919. 



Dr. John W. Harshberger made a communication on "Slope 

 Exposure and the Distribution of Plants in Eastern Pennsylvania." 

 (No abstract.) 



Edgar Fahs Smith, Ph.D., LL.D., was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




122 



I'UOOIOIlllHNOH <)!<' I'll 111 ACADIDMY UK 



April. 



HAI.MO roltlVIOMANIIM, A NKW TltUIIT l<'K( MVI TIIK IVKMINTAIN MTIIK.AIVIH 



OK KOIllVIOiiA 



IIV liWin MTAIIII .loKHAN .\NI> MAMAMITMI) <»ttlllMA. 



Id Hi iMniiiiliiiM Hliriiiii <>| ( Viil.niJ l*'i)i'iM(>Mii, llii^ junior nulJior, itlil 

 fi;nv(M'Miii<'iiliil ImlHwy ositnl Uu- l.lid IhIiiihI of I'mnioMii, nijiiln IIk^ 

 Illlt'Spt'tlrd (|lri('tt\'riy ••! ii lni>M' MpOdicH (d IkhiI, wIiicIi ;i<tiiim lt> l)«i 

 IKUV In Mcit^iirr 'I'lir iir*'<iiiipiiiiyill|;; li^lll't^ \fi drilUli hy Ml < ^mIiiIMIL. 



HullllO ftil IIKmUIUIH Jiiiildll mill I Inhliiiii 



llciul ;t^ ill liHiglli l(> luirti' III CmikIiiI; ilnplli -1 ; l> m, II, A m, H); 

 I' I'-*; \'. t>; HIKMll ',\l III liriMJ; (\V<' <l; ililnioilulHl npficn ;>;'|, iiiMA- 

 illuiy '.'I'l; pcclniiil I;' vt'iiliiil ~, miimI I jj ; HtnUoH in liilonil Hfiir,s 

 iiImmiI lilO (n|i|it|iit' inwn) in I niiirivdiHi' Hnri«'H "2(1 'J'2; hiMnciiioHU'niilH 

 \[\', y}\\\u\\v\'H (in lii'hl at I'll V | *,i. 



>> 



t 









#..,.# '■^♦':?4 



,..-< 



% 



\f 





"''^•. 



^^^ttiAMim>M^^^^m\. 



Sitliiiit I'oriiiiminii I .liinlin wwA ()^<hllllM. 



\\oA\ i;illni iliTp, inn.liiMlrly rliinpilllt', iM>inpr(^HH(^(l, (ini'.Mii! piolilo 

 niiiir nl loii^'JN I'UlVi'il tliiiii llinl ol the \riilijil; lirati I;H>.m', (lir jilWH 

 pi iiiluci'tj (inalr r\Miiiplr), till ri oi I ul a I ripnrc lii'onil, nearly lliltj 

 nia\illaiy ifiiclnnp, iar hryoin' llic rye, ,sni»nl poinlcd; nuuilli Imik«\ 

 fili^lill\' »»Mi»|in\ upper jaw •.htuiei' llian I lie Inwer, eye Imi>?;(\ mm- 

 (jMlor, iiomIiiIm clone (o^etlier, in lii'iil oi (lie e\e, vomer iieaiiv Hat, 

 tli(« hIwiII inuili il(^pr«*Hrteil, llit^ head oi the hone uilii nix leelh, I he 

 mIimII. Wllh ele\i<n leelh w hirh me ,sel in a //lgy,ll|;' mM'it^N, (hose «>n 




(he :^\'^\l phuTil ilin<iily on (l>(> suilMCt' el {\\c l'i»iu\ iiol on ;i lit'O 

 iM"tv»»t ; touKUc Willi li\r ptiirs t>r i'Mmn<> like (ci'ili, pn'm;i\ill;ii v willi 

 rij^lu. inM\ill;>i> wiili (\\riU\ li\t\ »l«>i>tai> ui(l\ M\lt«fii, pnlMliMo 

 Willi oigl»(«'(Mi li'flli, ('ium'cmIuim siuoolh, I>imhi'Iiu»hI«>hmIs well »l»'\»^l 

 o|u>J; gilh'MktM'N liUlu^r nKmuUm' imtl \o\\\i, 



l>(>rs;il I'm ii\s«Ml»'il midwMy l>«'t\vot<n l\w dp oi .suoul Mini \\\o haso 

 ol' i'Miidfil, llir li>nu,rsl \n\ I jj itt lioail, ndiposo ilorsal nt^n.rtM' lo (lu> 

 «'juhImI ih.'ui l>> I In- tloisal; cfuulal pt^dmu'U^ Htn>n^ly t'oiupit>,s,stMl, 

 its (It'ptli 'Jl ill li(>!iil, vtMidiil iiist^rtt'tl IhAow |Iu> ViIi l>rnii»'li«vl ray 

 ol ilic »U»rsal; ;iii;il mllu'i IuhIi, shai^lil iMlu;tvl, tMiiurly lu'liiinl llio 

 «ltM'!sal, I lit' loiii^osl ray '.' m 1i<';h1, long.n lliaii llio l>Msr ol ilir liii 



Im'.In cov t'ri>il with small imu s«niU\s; latt>ral liiu> noarly Hlraip;l>t, 

 niiimiiK aloiij; llic mi, I. lie ol ilir si<K\ sliglills iipruiAc.l m lioni 



I "olor iin I'ormaliiO ImowiiinIi ^,iay aWovr. In^lly aiitl lowtM' pails 

 ol ilu' Milos wIiKinIi, Miiall (lai'lv spots sratliMtul along Itolli jsidos of 

 (lie «l»>rsal iiu'iliaii liiu\ iioiio iiistiiicl on IhvuI, imr along lln^ l>aso of 

 dorsal; sidos wiih ii!n'«\s of largt^ lilai-kisli hais; l>as»vs ot' all llir lins 

 rstcpi iMUil.'il dii-.kv, oiiici iii;ii>.',iii ol ilir liii:. iImiU, caiulal liii imi- 



loiiiiK ihllK, lir:ul Mlhl ilinri p;iil ol llic iiioiilli Itlru-tm.-. I'olal 



ItMiglh oiJo mm 



Mi-.rriln'il liom ;i -.pcrimi'ii lioiii T.iiko Kivi'i at Saiaiiiao, NanIo, 

 l'\»rmosa, 



Saianiao is locatoil in llu^ miiMlr pail ol" dm Island ol' I'oiiiiorta 

 just on il\t> simimil ot ihr iimiIimI monnlain diium- I'ntil now tlitao 

 was no u'.oiil III l'\»nno,sa with it^gard lo ilic or.iii iimht ol salmon 

 Ol lioiii, r\in 111 llir inidstrt^ain or «>stiiar\ ol Taiko K'ivor. It is 

 said, liow r\ iM, I li;il I lie .'iliorigiiuvs w lio li\ r in I ho \i('inily ol ,'^ai .'iiiijio 

 orcasionally c'lirli ;i iioui like ii-,li wlu.li (li.'\ \,ilii(« a.-i lood lly 

 llic loinii'sy ol' Ml roiiioiiialsii Tsnsaki, polu'iMii;iii at Shikiknn, 



I\ll'. ^)^llllll;l lias l'»*rt'l\('d llic pro.soni :.pccillicii o\ llic ,sp«>('ioH, Ao- 



I'oiding lo liiN staliMiicnl, ii was canghl hy a na(i\<' and was Tor 

 warded lo ihc Police Slalioii at Sliikikim in (K'lolnM', \\^\S 



\-, llic mclliod ol prcsi»r\ al ion w.i-, nol .s.-ilishirtory, almo,-.! all 

 (lie nijiikings hati dis;ippt\'ired when llic speciimai was r«>eei\ed, 

 There is no doiihl iliai ii w.as aeliuilly l.'ikcn in l''oiinosa, lu^eauso 

 ot llic pr«*senee ol' red Npolr-i on (lie I'ack winch \;iiiislied gradually 

 and ol I he I'lesli slate ol I lie .speeimeii when il w;e. lorwarded (o (he 

 ( io\ «>i iiiiieiil lii.-l II llic ol Science III I'aihokn, 



riu> Ixpical speemien ir; preservfd m I he iMiiseiim o\' Ihe lii,s|i(u(o 

 ol .Science ol I he (lo\ciiimeiil ol' koiiiior.a. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Salmo formosanus belongs to the subgenus Trutia L., including 

 the river trout. Two forms related to it have been described by 

 Bleeker from China, the exact locality not known; these are Salmo 

 leptosoma and Salmo pomotops Bleeker in his paper, *'Sur quelques 

 especes inedites on peu connus de poissons de Chine appartenant 

 au Museum de Hambourg." Verh. Akad. Amsterdam, XVIII, 187a, 

 pp. 14, 15. 



All their species are also more or less closely related to the European 

 brook trout {Salmo trutta = S. fario) . Salmo leptosoma has perhaps 

 a slenderer body than S. saramao, and Salmo pomatops has a black 

 spot or ocellus on the opercle. 




1919.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



A NEW SILUROID FISH OF THE GENUS CYCLOPIUM FROM COLOMBIA 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER 

 Cyclopium mariae new species. 



Head 4^; depth 6i; D. I, 6; A. I, 6; P. I, 10; V. I, 4;'snout l|in 

 head; mouth width 2|; interorbital 51; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2|; caudal 1; pectoral 1; ventral ItV- 



Body elongate, rather slender in profile, broadly depressed an- 

 teriorly, deepest at dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle well compressed, 

 elongate, or least depth about If its length. 



Head broadly depressed, width about 3 times that of body at 

 dorsal origin,, rather convex above and flattened below. Snout 

 broad, surface slightly convex, and as seen from above nearly twice 

 as broad as long. Eyes very small, superior entirelj^, front edge 

 about midway in head length, without distinct eyelids. Mouth 

 broad, slightly crescentic, and end of mandible about first fifth in 

 snout length. Buccal disk wide, that of lower jaw 3 times as wide 

 as upper, its hind edge with slight median emargination, and sur- 

 face rather coarsely papillose. Lateral barbel begins about midway 

 in snout length, and extends back nearly to gill-opening. About 

 8 simple conic, rather large teeth each side of upper jaw, and inside 

 forming rather broad band 3 or 4 rows of similarly large bifid teeth. 

 Lower jaw with 3 rows of bifid teeth, about 6 along outer edge of 

 each mandibular ramus, and innermost row of much smaller bifid 

 teeth or about 12 on each ramus. Nostrils about wide apart as 

 eye, rather large simple pores and each with broad cutaneous fold 

 behind. Both internasal and interorbital spaces level. Each cheek 

 with swollen appearance below eye. 



Gill-opening lateral, scarcely extends below pectoral base and 

 forward only about half way in postocular. A simple or rudimentary 

 little gill-raker on first arch and only about 4 short simple points 

 or tubercles on second and third arches, and six on last arch. Gill- 

 filaments about twice eye diameter. 



Enlarged rays of fins all with very small denticles on their outer 

 surfaces or edges. Basal portions of upper faces of pectoral rays 

 with spinules. Upper surface of head and predorsal with very small 

 and slightly scattered papillae, which become more minute and 

 crowded at dorsal base and finally obsoletely minute on rest of trunk. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Dorsal origin nearly midway between snout tip and hind anal ray 

 base, and flexible spine largest of rays, depressed fin short or but 

 slightly longer than predorsal space to head. Adipose fin ol^solete, 

 only evident as slight ridge along upper edge of caudal peduncle 

 behind anal base. Anal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than 

 ventral origin, median rays longest, or fin extends about half way 

 to caudal base. Caudal emarginate behind, uppermost and lower- 

 most simple rays longest, forming sharp points. Pectoral low, 

 outermost or simple enlarged ray much longest, reaching base of 

 uppermost ventral ray. Ventral inserted about opposite dorsal 

 origin, fin long and slender or 1 f to anal. Anal papilla long, slender, 

 conic, about f of anal spine. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish generally, with more or less clouded 

 or dull slaty marblings. Under surface of head, breast and belly 

 pale brownish-white, also lower surfaces of fins pale. Iris pale slaty. 

 Pectorals and ventrals with obscure shades of dusky on rays basally, 

 also same tints on dorsal and caudal rays. 



Length 95 mm. 



Type, No. 49,368, A. N. S. P. cT. Brook near the small village 

 of Choachi, 25 kilometers east of Bogota and at 1800 meters of alti- 

 tude, Colombia, 1917. Hermano Apolinar Maria. 



Also Nos. 49,369 to 49,384, A. N. S. P., paratypes, with same 

 data, of which seven are females. All show: Head 3f to 4|; depth 

 5^ to 7f ; D. I, 6; A. I, 6; head width 1 to 1| in its length; snout l|to 

 2; mouth width 2j to 3; interorbital 3 to 4f ; length 40 to 88 mm. 

 In the males the dorsal spines are damaged, opercle spiny, barbel 

 reaches pectoral origin, caudal much longer than head and no adipose 

 spine. The young show a dark caudal base. The females are 

 variable in depth, often with the adipose ridge of the back better 

 developed than in the male. They have the head about equally 

 papillose and spinescent, though are without the anal papilla. 



A male which was dissected had the remains of large dipterous 

 insect larva in its pharynx. 



This species appears allied with C. venirale Eigenmann' from 

 Dagua, which it represents in the headwater drainage of the Rio Meta 

 basin. C. ven-rale appears to differ in the presence of an adipose 

 spine, nasal barblet and in having the ventrals reaching slightly 

 beyond the vent. Other Colombian species, C. chapmani Eigen- 

 mann,^ C. trifasciatum Eigenmann* and C. unifasciaium Eigenmann^ 



1 Indiana Univ. Bull., X, No. 8, September, 1912, p. 15. 



^ L. c, p. 13. Boquia. 



' L. c, p. 14. Caldas and Cisnero. 



* L. c, p. 15. Caldas. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



are excluded on account of their more anterior ventrals, in all of 

 which they are said to be distinctly before the dorsal origin. 



(For Hermano Apolinar Maria, of the Institute de La Salle, Bogota, 

 to whom I am indebted for the opportunity to study this interesting 

 prenadilla.) 



Explanation of Plate VI II. 



Uppermost figure, male; upper figure to left, dorsal view of head (male); 

 upper figure to right, ventral view of head (male); median figure, young; lowest 

 figure, female. 




128 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



NOTES ON TROPICAL AMERICAN FISHES 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER 



While studying certain groups of marine fishes in the museum 

 of the Academy I have recently had occasion to examine several 

 old collections which have never been reported. Some include a 

 few types of Cope, of which additional notes and diagnoses are given 

 below. This has been attempted as most all his originals are too 

 brief and lack many of the details demanded by modern stand- 

 ards. The material representing Cope's "Ichthyology of the Lesser 

 Antilles" is largely extant, and is also included. Material from the 

 Bahamas and Jamaica, sent to the University of Pennsylvania, 

 and now in its Zoological Laboratory, was kindly placed at my dis- 

 posal by Dr. J. Percy Moore. 



Panama. 



A small collection received from Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger in 

 1857, another from Captain Field in 1862, and later some small 

 examples from J. A. McNiel, All from Panama City. 



1. Sphyrna zygmna Linne. 



2. Rfiitwbatos leucorhynchus Giinther. 



3. Urotrygon tnundus Gill. 



4. Cetengraulis engymen Gilbert and 



Pier son. 



5. Dorosoma petenensis (Giinther). 



6. Myrophis vafer Jordan and Gilbert. 

 Rabula panamensis (Steindachner) . 

 Murrena clepsydra Jordan and 



Evermann. 



Bagre pinnimaculata (Steindach- 

 ner). 



Mollienisia sphenops (Valen- 

 ciennes). 



Fodiator acutus (Valenciennes). 



12. Hemiramphus saltator Gilbert and 



iStarks. 



13. Hippocampus ingens Girard. 



14. Sphyrcena ensis Jordan and Gilbert. 



15. Vomer setapitmis (MitchillJ. 



16. Amia relrosella Gill. 



7. 

 8. 



9. 



10. 



11. 



17. Epinephelus labriformis (Jenyns). 



{E. ordinatus Cope, Trans. Amer. 

 Philos. Soc. Phila., XIV, 1871, 

 p. 466.) 



18. Rypticus xanti Gill. 



19. Anisotremus tcenialus Gill. 



20. Brachydeuterus leusiccus (Giinther). 



21. Polydactylus opercularis (Gill). 



22. Pomacentrus rectifrcenum Gill. 



23. Chcetodipterus zonatus (Girard). 



24. Canthigaster punc'.atissimus (Giin- 



ther). 



25. Diodon hystrix Linne. 



26. Prionotus horrens Richardson. 



27. Leptecheneis naucrates (Linne). 



28. Batrachoides pacijici (Giinther). 



29. Auchenopterus monophthalmus 



(Giinther). 



30. H ypsoblennius striatus (Steindach- 



ner). 



An old saw from Captain Field is doubtless Pristis zephyreus 

 (Jordan and Starks), but without other characters is not certain. 



1 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc Phila., (new series) XIV, 1871, pp. 445-483. 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129 



Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 



Dr. Ruschenberger, with Dr. Thomas J. Turner, made a small 

 collection of the market fishes, received in 1854. A few examples 

 were also obtained from William Hyde and E. D. Cope, and some 

 presented by the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, 

 at a later date. 



1. Flops sanrus Linne. 20. 



2. Clupanodon pseudohispanicus 21. 



(Poey). 22. 



3. Harengula pensacolce Goode. 23. 



4. Opisthonema oglinum (Le Sueur). 24. 



5. AncJwvia brownii (Gmelin). 25. 



6. Ceterigraulis edentidus (Cuvier). 26. 



7. Netuma barbus (Lacepede). 27. 



8. Fistularia tabacaria Linne. 28. 



9. Holocentrus ascensionis (Osbeck). 



10. Trichiurus lepturus Linne. 29. 



11. Oligoplites saliens (Bloch). 



12. Alepes amblyrhynchus (Cuvier). 30. 



13. Caranx hippos Linne. 3L 



14. C. latits Agassiz. 32. 



15. Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill). 33. 



16. Chloroscombrus chrysurus (Linne). 34. 



17. Seserimis xanthurus Quoy and 35. 



Gaimard. 36. 



18. Centropomus conslantinus Jordan 37. 



and Evermann. 38. 



19. Epinephelus guazamentzelii (Valen- 39. 



ciennes). 40. 

 (E. brachysoyna Cope, Trans. 

 Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XIV, 

 1871, p. 466.) 



Surinam, Dutch Guiana. 

 Dr. Constantine Hering made a very interesting collection at 

 this locality, which was received at the Academy about 1830. A 

 few fishes obtained by Dr. William Keller in 1856 I have not lo- 

 cated. 



Diplectrum /ormosuw. (Linne). 

 Priacanlhus arenatus Cuvier. 

 P. cruentatiis (Lacepede). 

 Lidjanus analis (Cuvier). 

 Orthopristis ruber (Cuvier). 

 Archosargus unimaculatus (Bloch). 

 Eucinostomus pseudogula Poey. 

 Gerres rhombeus Cuvier. 

 Micropogon opercularis (Quoy and 



Gaimard). 

 Geophagus hrasiliensis (Quoy and 



Gaimard). 

 Halichoeres poeyi (Steindachner). 

 Bodianus rufus (Linne). 

 Cryptotomus ustus (Valenciennes). 

 Choetodipterus faber (Broussonet) . 

 Holacanthiis tricolor (Bloch). 

 Batistes vetula Linne. 

 Stephanolepis hispidus (Linne). 

 Lactophrys triqueter (Linne). 

 Spheroides spengleri (Bloch). 

 Dactylopterus volitans (Linne). 

 Antennarius scaber (Cuvier). 



1. 



2. 

 3. 

 4. 

 5. 

 6. 

 7. 



8. 



9. 

 10. 



Eulamia oxyrhynchus (M tiller and 11. 



Henle). 12. 



Sphyrna tvdes (Valenciennes). 13. 

 S. zygoena (Linne). 



Pristis perotteti M tiller and Henle. 14. 



Flops saurus Linne. 15. 

 Heringia amazonica (Steindachner). 



Odoidognathus mucronatus Lace- 16. 



pede. 17. 



Anchovia lepidentostole Fowler. 18. 



(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 19. 



1911, p. 214, fig. 3.) 20. 

 Pterengraulis atherinoides (Linne). 

 Lycengraulis grossidens (Agassiz). 



Synbranchus marmorattis Bloch. 



Selenaspis herzbergii (Bloch). 



Netuma aulometopon Fowler. 

 (L. c, 1915, p. 204, fig. 1.) 



Rhanidia sebce (Valenciennes). 



Brachyplatystoma vaillanti (Valen- 

 ciennes) . 



Pseudoplaty stoma fasciatum (Linne) 



Doras granulosus Valenciennes. 



D. cataphractus (Linne). 



Trachycorystes galeatus (Linne). 



Pseudauchenipterus nodosus 

 (Bloch). 



21. Ageneiosus porphyreus Cope. 



(Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XIII, 1867, p. 404.) 




130 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Head 3|; depth 5; D, I, 7; A. iv, 41; head width If its length; 

 snout 2|; eye 7|; maxillary 2^; interorbital 2|; mouth width 2|; 

 dorsal height 2; pectoral 1|; ventral 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 3j; upper caudal lobe If. Body greatly compressed, upper profile 

 straight, lower convex. Caudal peduncle about long as deep. Head 

 wide, greatly depressed, depth over eye half its width. Snout greatly 

 depressed, broadly spatulate, length about | its width. Eyes lateral, 

 though more inferior, almost covered by adipose-eyelid, midway 

 in head length. Mouth broad, gape about f to eye. Upper jaw 

 produced well beyond lower, its teeth broadly exposed. Mouth 

 roof smooth. Upper buccal fold very broad. Tongue wide, thick, 

 fleshy, not free. Fine concealed maxillary barbel about f of eye. 

 Front nostril about first | in snout. Hind nostril about midway 

 between snout tip and hind eye edge. Interorbital convex, with 

 long median fontanel which broader anteriorly and not extended 

 back to occipital process. Rakers iii 3+4 x, short, lanceolate about 

 ^ of filaments, which nearly long as eye. Body everywhere with 

 smooth skin. Spinous dorsal inserted close behind head or little 

 nearer anal origin than snout tip, fin base about i its height. Adi- 

 pose fin inserted about last third between depressed spinous dorsal 

 tip and caudal base, fin equals 1^ eye-diameters. Anal origin mid- 

 way between hind eye edge and caudal base, fin long and low, slightly 

 higher anteriorly. Caudal well forked, pointed lobes about equal. 

 Pectoral low, reaches f to ventral. Ventral origin at last f between 

 pectoral and anal origins, reaches anal. Vent close before anal. 

 Color in alcohol largely dull brownish, paler below. Head above 

 and back with obscure slaty or darker marblings. Fins pale brown- 

 ish. Length 280 mm. Cotype (type) No. 8,389, A. N. S. P. 



Also another cotype: Head 3|; depth 5|; D. I, 5; A. iv, 41; snout 

 2| in head; eye 7J; maxillary 2^; interorbital 2; length 178 mm. 

 (caudal tips damaged). 



22. Platystacus cotylephorus Bloch. 



23. Aspredo aspredo (Linne). 



24. Callichthys callichthys (Linne). 



25. Plecostomus plecostomus (Linne). 



26. Loricariichthys typus (Bleeker). 



27. Loricaria cataphracta Linne. 



28. Curimata copei Fowler. 



(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1906, p. 301, fig. 7.) 



29. C. schomburgkii (Gunther). 



30. Curimaiella alburnus (M tiller and 



Troschel) . 



31. Astyanax caucanus (Steindachner). 



32. A. bimaculatus (Linne). 



33. Gasteropelecus sternicla (Linne). 



34. Charax gibbosus (Linne). 



35. Hoplias malabaricus (Bloch). 



36. Erythrinus unitceniatus Agassiz. 



37. Gymnotus carapo Linne. 



38. Sternopygus macrurus (Schneider). 



39. Anableps anableps (Linne). 



40. Poecilia vivipara Schneider. 



41. Mugil incilis Hancock. 



42. Trichiurus lepturus Linne. 



43. Caranx latus Agassiz. 



44. Selene vomer (Linne). 



45. Centropomus pectinatus Poey. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



46. C. parallelus Poey. 49. Cynoscion acoupa (Lacepede). 



(C. heringi Fowler, 1. c, 1906, 50. Nehrius microps Cuvier. 



p. 423, fig. 2.) 51. Plagioscion squamosissimus (Heck- 



47. C. undecimalis (Bloch). el). 



48. Anisotremus surinamensis (Bloch). 



52. Plagioscion monacanthus (Cope). 



(Corvina monacantha Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) XIII, 1866, 

 p. 402.) 



Head 3j; depth 3^; D. X, I, 33; A. 11,6; pores (enlarged scales) 

 in I. 1. to caudal base 50; 11 scales above 1. 1. to soft dorsal origin, 

 10 below to spinous anal origin; head width 2 in its length; snout 4; 

 eye 6|; maxillary 2; interorbital 3^; third dorsal spine 2|; second 

 anal spine 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; caudal 1|; pectoral 

 Ij; ventral Ij. Body well compressed, back elevated. Head deep, 

 upper profile slightly concave above eye. Snout convex, length f 

 its ^^•idth. Eye center at first t in head. Mouth large lower jaw 

 slightly included. Maxillary reaches hind eye edge. Teeth in 

 bands in jaws, fine, with outer row enlarged, upper little more so. 

 Tongue free, smooth. Nostrils together, close before eye. Inter- 

 orbital convex. Hind preopercle edge entire, except 2 short points 

 at angle below. Rakers ii 4+10 v, lanceolate, 1| in eye or longer 

 than filaments. Scales finely ctenoid, in oblique rows on trunk. 

 Large scales on opercle and few behind eye. Of head only lips 

 naked. L. 1. of enlarged scales concurrent with dorsal profile to 

 anal, then midway or horizontal, and on caudal to its end. Dorsal 

 spines thin, fourth longest. Soft dorsal inserted slightly nearer 

 caudal base than snout tip, height about uniform. Anal inserted 

 about midway between ventral origin and caudal base, first spine 

 rudiment and second but little less than rays (damaged). Caudal 

 ends in median point behind. Pectoral 1^ to anal. Ventral in- 

 serted opposite pectoral origin, first ray ends in filament, spine 

 slightly less than half of fin. Vent well before anal, or at depressed 

 ventral tip. Color in alcohol dull uniform brownish, with brassy 

 and silvery reflections. Caudal and pectoral with three deep brown 

 cross-bars. Length 213 mm. No. 11,519, A. N. S. P., type of 

 Corvina monacanlha Cope. 



The above example has wrongly been referred to Plagioscion 

 squamosissimus (Heckel) by Jordan and Eigenmann,^ and allowed 

 to repose in its synonomy ever since. It appears identical vnih 

 Pseudosciaena surinamensis Bleeker,^ which name it replaces. In 

 the large anal spine it is allied with Plagioscion auraius (Castelnau). 



2 Rep. U. S. Fish Com., XIV, 1886 (1889), p. 382. 



3 Arch. Neerl. Sci. Nat. Harlem, VIII, 1873, p. 458, PI. 21. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



53. Pachypops grunniens (Schomhurgk) . 56. Cichlasoma bimaculalum (hinne). 



54. Ophioscion adustus (Agassiz). 57. Dactylopterus volitans (Linne). 



55. Sagenichthys ancylodon (Schneider) . 58. Dor mitator maculatus (Bloch). 



59. Eleotris amblyopsis (Cope). 



(Culius amblyopsis Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XIV, 1871, p. 



473.) 



Head 2f ; depth 3f ; D. VI — 8, i; A. I, 8, i; scales 42 in median lateral 

 series to caudal base and 6 more on latter; 14 scales transversely 

 between soft dorsal and anal origins; about 38 ? predorsal scales; 

 head width If its length; third dorsal spine 2f ; sixth dorsal ray 1|; 

 seventh anal ray 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral If; 

 ventral 1|; snout 4| in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 5j; 

 maxillary 2|; interorbital 3j. Body well compressed, contour slen- 

 derly ellipsoid. Caudal peduncle strongly compressed, slightly 

 longer than deep. Head robust, muzzle obtuse. Snout convex, 

 length I its width. Eye small, elongate, center near first third in 

 head. Mouth oblique, large, lower jaw well protruded. Maxillary 

 reaches about center of eye. Teeth fine, in bands in jaws. Tongue 

 broad, depressed, free. Interorbital slightly depressed in front, 

 slightly convex. Preopercle with strong obscure spine, directed 

 downwards. Rakers 6 low knob-like rudiments on lower limb of 

 first arch. Head scaly, except muzzle. Scales small and crowded 

 on predorsal. About 12 rows of fine scales across cheek. From 

 lower eye edge 6 cutaneous ridges radiate down over infraorbital. 

 On head, predorsal, breast and belly scales cycloid, on trunk ctenoid, 

 and also larger on latter behind. Caudal and pectoral bases with 

 small scales, fins otherwise naked. No trace of 1. 1. Dorsal spines 

 thin, fin inserted slightly nearer snout tip than caudal base, third 

 spine longest, reaches back slightly beyond soft dorsal origin. Last 

 little nearer caudal base than hind preopercle edge, rays gradually 

 higher towards last, not quite reaching caudal base. Anal opposite 

 soft dorsal, similar. Caudal rounded, median rays longest. Pectoral 

 broad, median rays longest, reaches vent. Ventral inserted slightly 

 before pectoral origin, reaches | to anal, with small papilla. Color 

 in alcohol dull uniform brownish generally. Dusky brown to black- 

 ish line from hind eye edge horizontally back to opercle above, two 

 obliquely down from lower hind edge, and another more obscurely 

 vertically down over infraorbital. Fins all finely barred with narrow 

 dusky-brown lines. Black blotch, little smaller than pupil, just 

 before pectoral origin. Iris slaty. Length 80 mm. (caudal tip 

 damaged). Cotype (type) of Culms amblyopsis Cope, No. 10,577, 

 A. N. S. P. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Also Nos. 10,578 and 10,579, A, N. S. P., cotypes, same data. 

 These show: Head 3; depth 4 to 4|; D. VI — 8, i; A. I, 8, i; scales 44 

 or 45 in median lateral series to caudal base and 6 or 7 more on latter; 

 16 scales transversely between soft dorsal and anal origins; 40 to 43 

 predorsal scales; snout 4^ to 4f in head measured from upper jaw 

 tip; eye 5f to 6; maxillary 2|; interorbital 3 to 3|; length 80 mm. 



60. Batrachoides surinamensis (Schnei- 62. Achirus achirus (Linne). 



der). 63. A. lineatus (Linne). 



61. Citharichthys spilopter us Gimiher. 64. Oncocephalus vespertilio (Linne). 



St. Martin's Island, West Indies. 



Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma collected in the lower or Dutch portion 

 of the island, likely largely at or about Phillipsburg. The collection 

 was received at the Academy in 1869. This is the most important 

 of Cope's collections embraced in his "Ichthyology of the Lesser 

 Antilles," as it furnished the largest number of his new forms. Cope's 

 account still appears to be the only one dealing with the fish-fauna 

 of this island. Species mentioned by Cope, but which I fail to 

 locate in the collection, are indicated by f. It long appeared clear 

 that a great many specimens were never included in Cope's list, 

 as I recorded some species since, and such as now remain are indi- 

 cated by the prefixed asterisk. These indications are also applicable 

 to the St. Croix and St. Christopher collections. 



1. Ginglymostoma cirratum (Bonna- 5. Anchovia platyargyrea Fowler. 



terre). (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



2. Albula vulpes (Linne). 1911, p. 216, fig. 4.) 



3. Harengula macrophthalma (Ranzani). 6. Anguilla rostrala Le Sueur. 



4. H. pensacolce Goode. 7. Myrichthys oculatus (Kaup). 



8. Enchelycore nigrocastaneus (Cope). 



{Giimnothornx nigrocastaneus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. See. Phila., n. s. 

 XIV, 1871, p. 483.) 



Head 8; depth 23|; head width 4| in its length; snout 5f from 

 upper jaw tip; eye 9^; upper jaw to rictus 2\; interorbital 9; head 

 3f to vent. Body well compressed, also head, latter with flattened 

 sides approximate below. Muzzle slender, acuminate. Snout conic, 

 basal width If its length. Eye slightly advanced. Mouth large, 

 not closing, dentition well exposed. Teeth sharp-pointed, conic or 

 moderately compressed, slightly inclined back. Upper teeth uni- 

 serial, erect, vary alternately small or little enlarged, latter b.ut little 

 longer than small lower teeth. Several enlarged erect upper canines 

 at snout tip, another each side and one close before each eye. Inside 

 and little advanced, though close to erect preocular pair of canines, 

 another larger depressible canine each side. Between median and 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



pair of erect upper teeth at snout tip pair of depressible smaller 

 conic teeth, one each side of median tooth and directed back. Close 

 behind large front erect outer canine each side above 2 inner enlarged 

 depressible conic teeth. Premaxillary teeth large canines, conic, 

 depressible, first close behind median front erect upper tooth, second 

 subequal and median about midway in snout length, last longest 

 and median close before eye. Vomer with one row of low backward ly 

 inclined compressed sharp-pointed teeth, smaller than lateral man- 

 dibulars or like smallest along upper jaw edges. Upper teeth begin 

 about opposite eye center, close inside upper laterals inner row of 

 4 enlarged depressible conic teeth, last well behind eye. Lower 

 teeth largely uniserial, compressed, sharp-pointed, inclined little 

 back, all small except anterior. Pair of erect sharp conic symphyseal 

 canines. In front of mandible each side anteriorly row of 3 enlarged 

 depressible conic canines, first largest in jaw and second shorter than 

 symphyseal pair, third about equal. Mandible elongate, slender, 

 attenuate, protrudes little beyond upper, well curved, surface con- 

 vex, rami low. Front nostril in short tube near snout tip, hind one 

 long slit about f of eye. Interorbital convex. Gill-opening nearly 

 horizontal, about midway in depth, about f of eye. Pharynx swollen, 

 grooved below. Pores on head inconspicuous. Dorsal origin about 

 opposite hind edge of gill-opening, like anal moderately high. Caudal 

 2^ in eye. Vent close before anal. Color in alcohol largely uni- 

 form chocolate-brown. At rictus color little darker, or dusky. Edge 

 of gill-opening not noticeably darker. Iris slaty. Fins narrowly 

 edged slightly darker than body-color. Length 610 mm. No. 

 16,032, A. N. S. P., type of G. nigrocastaneus Cope. 



9. Muraena miliaris (Kaup). 



{Muroena myrialeucostictus Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 

 18, fig. 4.) 



Thyrsoidea miliaris Kaup^ is likely this species. He had a larger 



example, without locality, with "arabesque" figures towards end of 



tail, arising from the dots running into each other, which was 23.98 



in. long. The other, from Martinique, appears to agree, though 



lack of details do not render this certain. Muraena multiocellata 



Poey^ agrees largely in proportions, but it is said to have the lower 



teeth morey serrated and numerous than the upper. Gunther appears 



to have correctly placed Kaup's T. miliaris in Muraena,^ though 



wrongly includes Murenophis punctata Castelnau,^ as the latter is 



*Csit. Apodal F. Brit. Mus., 1856, p. 90. 



8 Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, II, 1860, p. 324. Cuba. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



shown with the dorsal origin about last fourth between mouth- 

 corner and gill-opening. Cope appears the first to wrongly place it 

 in Gymnothorax. Obviously in my own account the hind nostril 

 is intended above the front eye edge in a short tube. 



10. Gymnothorax moringua (Cuvier). 12. Echidna catenaia (Bloch). 



\l. G. carcinognathus Fowler. 13. Fundulus antillarum Fowler. " 



(Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (L. c, 1916, p. 418, fig. 1.) 



1912, p. 22, fig. 5.) 



*14. Belone argalus Le Sueur. . 



Head 2f ; depth 21f ; D. ii, 13; A. iii, 17; scales 200 from shoulder 

 to caudal base and 10 more on latter; 154 scales from occiput to 

 dorsal origin; eye If in postocular; interorbital 2 ; first branched dorsal 

 ray 1|; caudal peduncle width 2* least depth 4^; ventral l\; post- 

 ocular 5 J ? in rest of head; pectoral 4^ ?; lower caudal lobe 5; first 

 branched anal ray 4^. Body subcylindrical, caudal peduncle greatly 

 depressed, with broad keel flaring out each side and continued back 

 over caudal basally for f . Head large, with very long slender jaws, 

 lower little longer. Eye large, next to upper profile. Maxillary 

 entirely concealed, to front eye edge. Jaws not completely closing 

 basally. Teeth very small. Interorbital broad, depressed, dis- 

 tinctly concave medially. Nasal cavity much smaller than pupil. 

 Rakers 2 + 5, ii, short weak points, about | of filaments, latter 2^ 

 in eye. L. 1. inferior, extends below keel along caudal peduncle 

 side, but only to caudal base. Head largely scaly. Dorsal origin 

 well behind anal origin, or slightly nearer ventral origin than caudal 

 base, front lobes little elevated. Anal like dorsal, much larger and 

 front lobe greatly longer. Hind caudal edge emarginate, lower lobe 

 slightly longer. Pectoral pointed, reaches 4 to ventral and latter 

 inserted about midway between hind eye edge and caudal base, 

 fin 2f to anal. Color in alcohol faded dull brownish above, sides 

 and below silvery-white. Line of demarcation from shoulder bounded 

 only by dull leaden line. Side of head, iris and beak silvery-white. 

 Fins all pale. Length 308 mm. 



The above example agrees largely with Le Sueur's description,^ 

 except he says "lateral line very low, interrupted by ventral fins, 

 and beginning to rise above the base of the anal, are then continued 

 along the middle of the tail upon the carina." AYhat is intended by 

 "pectoral fins small, longer than the half of the space which separates 



6 Cat. F. Brit. Mus., VIII, 1871, p. 100. Cuba. 



^.\n. Amer. Sud, Poiss., 1855, p. 82, PI. 42, fig. 3 (head). Rio Janeiro. 

 8 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., II, pt. 1, 1821, p. 125, PI. 10, fig. 1. Island of 

 Guadaloupe. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



their base from the tail" is not clear. Now his figure varies in 

 several respects, and the details are slightly obscure. The dorsal 

 has 26 rays and the anal about 24 ?, the eye about 1| in postocular, 

 first dorsal ray 1^, first anal ray 1 + ^, least depth of caudal peduncle 

 6|, ventral 1^, postocular about 5 in rest of head, pectoral 8f in 

 total head length, lower caudal lobe about 4|, first anal ray 5 and 

 pectoral 7 or 8 times to ventral. 



I have recently examined material sent by the United States 

 National Museum from the Azores and Ascension Island, which I 

 identified as B. trachura Valenciennes and appears in every way 

 identical. It is also quite evident that Belone ardeola Valenciennes 

 and B. cigoneUa Valenciennes are other synonyms. This species 

 is not a Tylosurus as Jordan^ has recently announced, but a Belone 

 belonging to my subgenus Platybelone. 



15. Strongylura timucu (Walbaum). 



{Belone diplolan'.a Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., n. s., XIV, 1871, 

 p. 481.) 



Head 2f ; depth 15; D. ii, 14; A. iii, 15; scales 230 from shoulder 

 to caudal base and 10 more on latter; 155 scales from occiput to 

 dorsal origin; eye 2| in postocular; interorbital 2|; first branched 

 dorsal ray 1|; first branched anal ray 1 ; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 4j; ventral If; postocular 3^ in rest of head; pectoral 4; lower caudal 

 lobe about 4. Body subcylindrical, caudal peduncle slightly de- 

 pressed, width behind slightly less than its depth. Head large, 

 with long slender jaws, lower little longer. Eye large, next to upper 

 profile. Maxillary not quite to pupil, little behind front eye edge, 

 largely concealed. Teeth small. Jaws not completely closing bas- 

 ally. Interorbital depressed, broad, very slightly concave. Nasal 

 cavity little less than pupil. No rakers. L. 1. runs along lower 

 body edge, ascends caudal peduncle at middle of side and then straight 

 to caudal base medially. Head largely scaly, over sides at least, 

 also including preorbital, side of mandible and maxillary. Dorsal 

 origin well behind anal origin or slightly nearer caudal base than 

 ventral origin, front lobe well elevated. Anal like dorsal, little 

 larger. Caudal emarginate behind, lower lobe little longer. Pectoral 

 pointed, 2| to ventral, latter inserted slightly nearer caudal base 

 than hind eye edge, about \ to anal. Color in alcohol faded pale 

 brown on back, sides and lower surface silvery-white. Line of 

 demarcation along back distinct, leaden, and below closely parallel, 



9 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 55, 1919, p. 398. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



narrow, pale yellowish line. Side of head and iris silvery-white. 

 Slight dusky tint on opercle behind and above. Vertical fins and 

 pectoral grayish, ventral paler. Length 305 mm. No. 7,572, A. N. 

 S. P., tj^pe of B. diplotaenia Cope. 



Identical with S. tiniucu (Walbaum), differing apparently in the 

 lateral bluish stripe edged with black and then yellowish all along 

 below. Cope says of B. diplotaenia eye 2.5 in postorbital, eye equals 

 interorbital and pectoral equals postorbital, though I find the 

 pectoral about half an eye-diameter longer than postocular. 



16. Hyporhamphus unifasciatu^ (Ran- 34. M. venenosa apua (Bloch). 



zani). 35. Hypopleclrus unicolor crocotus 



17. Parexocoetus mesogaster (Bloch). (Cope). 



18. Cypselurusheterurus (RR&nesque). (Plectropoma crocoia Cope, \. c, 

 *19. Aidostomus maculalus Valen- p. 467, fig. 3.) 



ciennes. 36. Rypticus coriaceus (Cope). 



20. Atherina laticeps Poe}^ (Eleutheractis coriaceus Cope, 



21. Sphyrce7ia barracuda (Walbaum). 1. c, p. 467, fig. 3.) 

 t22. Hippocampus punctulatus Guich- t37. Lutjanus synagris (Linne). 



enot. 38. Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch). 



23. Myripristis jacobus Cuvier. 39. Rhoinboplites aurorubens (Cuvier). 



24. Holocentrus ascensionis (Osbeck). 40. Hcemulon melanurum (Linne). 



25. Scomberomorus cavalla (Cuvier). 41. Bathystoma aurolineatutn {Cxxvier). 



26. Trichiurus leplurus Linne. 42. Genyatremus luteus (Bloch). 

 t27. Blepharis crinitus (MitchiU). *43. Eucinostomus pseudogula Poey. 



28. Vomer spixii (Swanison). 44. E. gula (Quoy and Gaimard). 



29. Trachinotus glaucus (Bloch). 45. Upeneus martinicus Cuvier. 



30. Pempheris mulleri Poey. 46. Bairdiella ronchus (Cuvier). 



31. Epinephelus rnaculosus (Valen- 



ciennes) . 



32. Alphestes chloropterus (Cuvier). 



33. Mycteroperca acutirostris (Valen- 



ciennes) . 



(Epinephelus chalinius Cope, 

 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila. 

 n. s. XIV, 1871, p. 465.) 



47. Umbrina coroides Cu\ier. 



Head 3f to 3f ; depth 3 to 3f ; D.X, 1,26 to X, 1,28; A. 11,6; scales 

 49 in 1. 1. to caudal base; snout 3| in head; eye 4j to 4|; maxillary 

 2\ to 2f ; interorbital 3f to 3f. Body well compressed, deep, back 

 elevated. Caudal peduncle compressed. Head moderate, com- 

 pressed. Snout convex, about broad as long. Eye elevated, hind 

 edge midway in head length. Mouth small, inferior, lower jaw 

 included. ^Maxillary about to fi'ont pupil edge. Teeth fine, in 

 bands in jaws. Nostrils together, close before eye. Interorbital 

 convex. Hind preopercle edge finely serrate, and serrfe become 

 little enlarged toward angle. Broad preorbital equals eye. Rakers 

 5 or 6-|-8 or 9 rudimentary points, fourth or less than filaments, 

 and latter If in eye. L. 1. arched nearly concurrent with dorsal 

 profile. Second dorsal spine longest, fin inserted slightly behind 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



pectoral origin, and depressed tip not quite to soft dorsal origin, 

 which midway between front or hind nostril and caudal base. Soft 

 dorsal nearly uniformly low. Anal inserted about midway between 

 ventral origin and caudal base, second spine enlarged, 2| to 2f in 

 head. Pectoral and ventral about equal, 1^ to 1^ in head. In 

 alcohol faded largely uniform brownish, centers of scale rows slightly 

 darker. Lower surface with traces of silvery. Spinous dorsal and 

 caudal tinged dusky. Length of larger 203 mm. (caudal end dam- 

 aged) . 



Cope originally separated these two examples as varieties of U. 

 hroussoneii Cuvier, the smaller and longer example without brown 

 vertical bars and the larger deep one with nine vertical bars, 



48. Eques lanceolatus (Linne). 53. Halichoeres cymiocephalus (Bloch). 



49. Polydactylus plumieri Lacepede. 54. H. bivittalus (Bloch). 

 fSO. Poinacentrus leucostictus (Mtiller 55. Cryptotomus roseus Cope. 



and Troschel). (Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. 



51. Abudefduf marginatus (Bloch). Phila., n. s., XIV, 1871, p. 462, 



t52. Microspathodon chrysurus (Cu- fig. 1.) 

 vier). 



56. Sparisoma hoplomystax (Cope). 

 (Scarus hoplomystax Cope, 1. c.) 



Head 3; depth 2t; D. IX, 10; A. II, 9; scales 23 in 1. 1. to caudal 

 base and 2 more on latter; 2 scales above 1. 1. to spinous dorsal origin 

 and 6 below to anal origin; 4 predorsal scales; snout 2f in head; 

 eye 4|; mouth 4f; interorbital 4f. Body well compressed, ovoid, 

 deepest about middle of pectoral. Caudal peduncle compressed, 

 least depth 2| in head. Head compressed, upper profile little more 

 inclined. Snout about long as wide, muzzle compressed. Eye 

 elevated, hind edge about midway in head length. Pupil ellipsoid. 

 Mouth gape slightly inclined forward, about f to eye or not quite 

 to front nostril. Three canines on outer face of upper jaw, all flaring 

 out, front pair close together and directed forward. Ten oblique 

 rows of teeth along each side of lower jaw. Front nostril about 

 half an eye-diameter before eye, with fleshy filament about | same. 

 Interorbital slightly depressed concavely in front, slightly convex 

 behind. Rakers 4 + 12 flexible points, j of filaments and latter 

 about 4| in head. Tubes in 1. 1. arborescent. Row of 5 large scales 

 on cheek. Dorsal spines quite pungent, mostly uniform, second 

 3^ in head, fin edge entire. Soft dorsal similar, inserted about mid- 

 way between upper end of gill-opening and caudal base. Anal 

 opposite and like soft dorsal. Caudal convex behind. Pectoral 

 If in head, about | to anal. Ventral inserted slightly behind pec- 

 toral base, fin f to anal. Color in alcohol above largely dull brown- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



ish, line of demarcation from level with eye to caudal base medially 

 distinct, with paler brownish color below. Body everyAvhere with 

 obscm-e paler or whitish dots or specks, and many obscure darker 

 reticulations above and on side of head. Snout, cheek and head 

 above with many brownish dots. An obscure pale streak from 

 rictus across chin. Pectoral axil and suprascapula with dusky- 

 brown tinge. Pectoral base with row of fine whitish dots. Ver- 

 tical fins pale brownish, specked or dotted with darker and whitish. 

 Pectoral and ventral pale, latter whitish terminally. Length 139 mm. 

 Type (cotype) of S. hoplomystax Cope, No. 9,305, A. N. S. P. 



Also Nos. 9,306 and 9,307, and 9,283 to 9,285, cotypes, A. N. S. P. 

 These show: Head 2f to 3; depth 2f to 2f ; D. IX, 10; A. II, 9; scales 

 23 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter; snout 2| to 2* in head; 

 eye 4 to 4^; mouth 4| to 5f; interorbital 4j to 5^; length 112 to 

 123 mm. 



57. Sparisoma aurofrenatum (Valen- 60. S. flavescens (Schneider). 



ciennes). Recorded by Cope as Scarus 



58. S. ahildgaardi (Bloch). radians. 

 *59. S. distinctum (Poey). 



61. Callyodon punctulatus (Valenciennes). 



One example, listed by Cope as Scarus psittacus and wrongly 

 included as a synonym of Scarus taeniopterus Desmarest by Jordan, i" 

 who thinks Scarus diadema Valenciennes a synonym of the present 

 species. While doubtless his material agrees with the account by 

 Valenciennes," C. punctulatus is distinguished from C. diadema by 

 having its anal fin medianly throughout speckled with dusky. C. 

 diadema agrees, however, in the presence of the yellow transverse 

 line connecting the eyes across the interorbital. In C. taeniopterus 

 this is not present, though there is a rather broad yellowish band 

 forward from front edge of eye towards end of snout, there meeting 

 its fellow. 



62. C. diadema Valenciennes. 63. C. taeniopterus (Desmarest). 

 *64. C. croicensis (Bloch). 



Five small examples appear to belong here as they have 2 rows of 

 cheek scales, a rounded caudal and without hind canines above. 

 Although in bad preservation traces of the 2 dark longitudinal bands 

 may be made out. Largest 64 mm. 



" Rep. U. S. F. Com., XV, 1887 (1891), p. 683. 

 " Hist. Xat. Poiss., XIV, 1839, p. 146. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



65. Pseudoscarus guacamaia (Cuvier). 69. Pomacanthus paru (Bloch). 



66. Chcetodon sedentarius Poey. 70. Holacanthus tricolor (Bloch). 

 *67. C. striatus Linne. 71. Angelichthys ciliaris (Linne). 

 t68. C. capistratus Linne. *72. Hepatus coeruleus (Schneider). 



73. Balistes forcipatus Graelin. 



{Balistes moribundus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., n. s., XIV, 

 1871, p. 479.) 



Head 2f; depth If; D. Ill— 29; A. 26; about 42 indistinct scales 

 in median lateral series between gill-opening and caudal base and 

 4 more on latter^^- snout If in head; eye 3j; interorbital 2f; fifth 

 dorsal ray 2; fifth anal ray 21; least depth of caudal peduncle 3; 

 caudal If; pectoral 2^. Body contour elHpsoid, compressed, deepest 

 medially. Caudal peduncle and head compressed, latter with upper 

 profile nearly straight and lower slightly convex. Muzzle well com- 

 pressed, preorbital slightly concave, width about half its length. 

 Mouth small, very slightly superior. Teeth in jaws enlarged me- 

 dially, each with concave edge. Nostrils together, close before 

 upper front eye edge. Interorbital convex. Gill-opening slightly 

 oblique, about | of eye. Body finely spinescent, each scale with 

 about 2 uneven rows of spinules. First dorsal spine robust, spiny 

 in front and spines larger above, its length (broken) at least twice 

 that of third. Soft dorsal origin midway between hind pupil edge 

 and caudal base, front rays highest and fin rounded. Anal similar, 

 opposite. Caudal rounded. Pectoral small. Ventral spine spines- 

 cent and flap with 10 slender, pointed spines. Color in alcohol 

 brownish generally, sides of head and trunk with numerous pale 

 bluish spots. Underlaid cloudings of deeper brown and 3 dark 

 brown blotches on back below soft dorsal, larger and more indis- 

 tinct one below spinous dorsal, and all reflected slightly on fins 

 basally. Membranes of spinous dorsal dusky. Iris deep brown. 

 Fins pale brownish, basally with several somewhat irregular rows of 

 whitish spots. Length 56 mm. No. 781, A. N. S. P., type of B. 

 moribundus Cope. 



74. B. vehda Linne. 



75. Canthidermis sobaco Poey. 



{Balistes asperrimus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., n. s., XIV, 

 1871, p. 478.) 



Head 2f ; depth If ; D. Ill — 26; A. 24; scales about 51 in mechan 

 lateral series between gill-opening and caudal base and 4 more on 

 latter; snout If in head; eye 3^; interorbital 2f; first dorsal spine 



12 Not 60 as given by Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., Bull. 47, 

 II, 1898, p. 1702. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



If; eighth dorsal ray 1|; fifth anal ray If; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 2|; free caudal rays 2; pectoral 2|. Body deep, well com- 

 pressed, deepest medially. Caudal peduncle and head compressed, 

 profiles of latter alike. Muzzle well compressed, preorbital depressed, 

 width If its length. Mouth small, terminal. Teeth enlarged 

 medianly in jaws, each with slight concave edge. Nostrils close 

 together, close before front eye edge medially. Interorbital de- 

 pressed concavely, rather blunt, occipital ridge extending up behind. 

 Gill -opening rather slightly obhque, about f of eye. Body every- 

 where roughly spinescent, spinules largest on middle of side below 

 and about ventral flap. All unpaired fin-rays with row of fine spin- 

 ules laterally, rows dividing and following branches terminally. 

 Humeral region finely spinescent. First dorsal spine inserted slightly 

 behind eye over gill-opening. Double row of spines down front 

 and one row down each side of first dorsal spine, second and third 

 spines barely I of first. Soft dorsal origin about midway between 

 hind pupil edge and caudal base, front median rays highest, fin 

 rounded. Anal similar, opposite. Caudal small, hind edge con- 

 vex. Pectoral small. Ventral spine spinescent, flap with about 

 7 irregular small spines not larger than adjacent ones. Color in 

 alcohol rather warm brownish generally, scarcely paler below, and 

 clouded pattern of broad, dark variable lines or reticulations. Dor- 

 sal and anal bases each with 3 dark brown blotches, extending as 

 irregular lines on fins. Iris brown. Length 82 mm. Type, of B. 

 asperrimus Cope, No. 800, A. N. S. P. 



Though Cope gives the type "locality uncertain, but probably 

 St. Martins, W. I.," the original label says "Darien." 



76. Canthidermis sufflamen (Mitchill). 78. Cantherines pullus (Ranzani). 



An adult example recorded by 79. Monacanthus ciliatus (Mitchill). 

 Cope as Balistes sobacus. Listed as AI. tomentosus by 



■177. Xanthichthys ringens (Linne). Cope. 



80. Pseudomonacanthus amphioxys (Cope). 



{Monacanthus amphioxys Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., n. s., 

 XIV, 1871, p. 477.) 



Head 2f ; depth 1|; D. 11—35; A. 30; snout 1| m head; eye 3^; 

 interorbital 3j; first dorsal spine Ij; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 3j; free caudal rays 2J; pectoral about 2f. Body rather elongately 

 ellipsoid, compressed, deepest medially. Caudal peduncle and head 

 well compressed, latter with upper profile slightly concave, lower 

 equally convex. Muzzle well compressed, preorbital strongly con- 

 cave, width about 3 in length. Mouth small, very slightly superior. 

 Median enlarged lower teeth larger than upper, all with well-notched 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



edges. Nostrils together, close before front eye edge. Interorbital 

 convex. Gill-opening little inclined, below hind part of eye and 

 equals eye. Body minutely spinescent, slightly rough to touch. 

 First dorsal spine inserted over middle of eye, with row of antrorse 

 serrse along each front edge and another on each hind edge, all becom- 

 ing smaller towards spine base. Second dorsal spine barely I of 

 first. Soft dorsal inserted about midway between front eye edge 

 and caudal base, front median rays longest, apparently (damaged) 

 not over half of first dorsal spine. Anal largely opposite, its origin 

 slightly behind dorsal origin. Caudal slightly convex behind. Pec- 

 toral small. Ventral spine rigid, with pair of spines in front, another 

 pair behind and several each side. Color in alcohol pale uniform 

 brownish generally, with brassy reflections below. Iris whitish. 

 Length 61 mm. Cotype (type) of M. afnphiozys Cope, No. 777, 

 A. N. S. P. 



No. 778, same data, cotype in poor condition, about same size. 

 Also No. 779, cotype, same size. It has: Head 2f ; depth 1|; D. II — 

 35; A. 32; snout 1 j in head; eye 3j; interorbital 3j; first dorsal spine 



li 



181. Aluiera scripta (Osbeck). t84. L. irigonus (Linne). 



82. Lactophrys triqueter (Linne). 8.5. L. tricornis (Linne). 



t83. L. bicaudalis (Linne). 86. Spheroides spengleri (Bloch). 



*87. S. marmoratus (Ranzani). 



Recorded as Tetrodon reticularis by Cope. On comparison with 



an example from Pine Island, Florida, which I recorded as the 



preceding species, "-^ I find such to be wrong and that it agrees with 



Cope's St. Martin's example. 



*88. S. testudineus (Linne). 90. Chilomycterus atinga (Linne). 



89. Canthigaster 7-ostralus (Bloch). 



91. Eleotris perniger (Cope). 



{Culius perniger Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., n. s., XIV, 1871, 



p. 473.) 



Head 3|; depth 4; D. VI — I, 8, i; A. I, 8, i; scales 66 from head to 

 caudal base and 4 more on latter; 22 scales transversely between 

 soft dorsal and anal origins; 58 predorsal scales; head width If its 

 length; mandible 2f; third dorsal spine 2|; seventh dorsal ray 1^; 

 seventh anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; pectoral 1\; 

 ventral 1|; snout 4 J in head from upper jaw tip; eye 6f ; maxillary 

 2f ; interorbital 3 J. Body compressed, deepest at soft dorsal origin. 

 Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth 1\ its length. Head 



" Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, p. 251. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



about deep as wide, upper profile deeply concave over eyes. Snout 

 broad, convex, length f its width. Eye small, ellipsoid, high, hind 

 edge at first | in head. Teeth fine, in bands in jaws, inner row in 

 each enlarged little. Maxillary reaches eye. Lower jaw well pro- 

 truded. Nostril small, inconspicuous, near snout edge. Interorbital 

 broadly convex, elevated behind. Preopercle with strong spine down 

 and forward. Gill-opening forward last | in head. Rakers 2+6 

 low knobs, and filaments about equal eye. Scales largely uniform, 

 except along body edges where small and crowded. Also small on 

 caudal base, predorsal, top of head and breast. Snout, preorbital 

 and jaws naked, head otherwise scaly. About 15 rows of cheek 

 scales. Dorsal spines fine, slender, fin inserted much neai-er hind 

 opercle edge than soft dorsal origin. Latter little nearer hind opercle 

 edge than caudal base, rays elevated gradually to last, which longest. 

 Anal similar, only its insertion little back. Pectoral long, pointed, 

 reaches vent. Ventral pointed, | to vent, ^"entral papilla long as 

 eye. Color in alcohol largely dark brown, mottled obscurely and 

 finely with darker. Dark brown streak from behind eye to upper 

 opercle edge, another from lower eye edge to median preopercle 

 edge. All fins except first dorsal finely barred with narrow dark 

 brown wavy lines. First dorsal pale, with about 5 dark lines ap- 

 parently, though very faint. Iris slaty. Length 128 mm. (caudal 

 end damaged). Type of C. penviger Cope, No. 10,575, A. N. S. P. 

 Cope saj^s "first dorsal with white extremity and two longitudinal 

 black bars, one along the base," though more appear present. 

 92. Mapo soporator (Valenciennes). *93. Gobiesox cephalus Lacepede. 



94. G. cerasinus Cope. 



(Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., n. s., XIV, 1871, p. 473.) 



Head 2|; depth 5f ; D. 7; A. 6; head width about 1^ its length; 

 head depth at occiput about 2j; snout 3|; eye 4|; mouth width 

 about 2|; interorbital 5; third dorsal ray 2^; third anal ray 31; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle Si-; caudal 2; pectoral 2f. Body strongly 

 depressed, depth about uniform. Caudal peduncle compressed, 

 about long as deep. Head greatly depressed, convex above, flattened 

 below. Snout depressed, broad, length f its width. Eye slightly 

 advanced from head center, chrected above and forward. Mouth 

 broad, lower jaw much shorter. Lips thick, fleshy. L^pper teeth 

 in 4 rows in front, outer row largest, compressed and ends slightly 

 convex. Nostrils superior on side of snout, alike, close before eye. 

 Interorbital level. Gill-opening forward about to hind eye edge. 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Rakers 6 low rudimentary knobs. Skin everywhere smooth. Lower 

 edge of head, front disk edge (lower pectoral rays) and inner ventral 

 faces papillose. Dorsal inserted about last third between hind eye 

 edge and caudal base, fin If to caudal base. Anal like dorsal, only 

 slightly backward. Caudal truncate. Pectoral broad, not quite 

 far back as ventral. Ventral disk rounded, about H in head. Color 

 in alochol pale uniform brownish. Length 72 mm. Type, No. 

 10,363, A. N. S. P. 



Cope gives the eye as 3 1 in the head, and says it equals the frontal 

 width, which agrees if the bony interorbital is intended. 



95. Malacoctenus higutlatus (Cope). 



96. Labrisoinus nuchipinnis (Quoy 



and Gaimard). 



97. Platophrys lunulatus (Linne). 



t98. Histrio histrio (Linne). 

 99. Antennarius multiocellatus (Va- 

 lenciennes). 

 100. Oncocephalus vesperlilio (Linne). 



St. Croix Island. 



Of Cope's material, reported in his memoir previously noticed, 

 two collections were studied. The first consisted of dried skins, 

 made by Dr. R. E. Griffiths, and the alcoholic preparations were 

 largely from Captain Thomas Davidson, U. S. N. 



Priacanthus arenatus Cuvier. 



Luijanus griseus (Linne). 



L. vivanus (Cuvier). 



Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch). 



Apsilus dentatus Guichenot. 



Hcemulon melanurum (Linne). 



H. scuirus (Shaw). 



H. plumieri (Lacepede). 



H. flavolincalum (Desmarest). 



Bathystonia striatum (Linne). 



Anisotremics virginicus (Linne). 



Calamus calamus (Cuvier). 



Eucinostomus gula (Quoy and 

 Gaimard). 



Upeneus maculalns (Bloch). 



Eques acuminatus (Schneider). 



E. punctatus (Linne). 



E. lanceolatus (Linne). 



Pomacentrus leucostictus (Midler 

 and Troschel). 



Abudefduf vinrginnlus (Bloch). 



Microspathodon chrysurus (Cu- 

 vier) . 



Bodianv^ ritfus (Linne) . 



Decodon puellaris (Poey). 



Clepticus parrce (Schneider). 



Halichoeres radiatus (Linne). 



H. poeyi (Steindachner). 



H. garnoti (Valenciennes). 



Chlorichthys hifasciatus (Bloch). 



Sparisoma aurofrenatum (Valen- 

 ciennes) . 



fl. Harengula pensacoloe Goode. t25. 



2. Sxjnodus intermedius (Agassiz). t26. 



3. Chilorhinus suensonii (Liitken). t27. 



4. Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linne). t28. 



5. A^dostomus maculatus Valen- 129. 



ciennes. fSO. 



6. Hippocampus punctulatus Guich- fSL 



enot. t32. 



7. Mugil curema Valenciennes. 33. 



Recorded as M. brasiliensis by 134. 



Cope. 35. 



8. Myriprislis jacobus Cuvier. t36. 



{Rhinoberyx chryseus Cope, 37. 



Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila. 



n. s., XIV, 1871, p. 464, fig. 2.) t38. 



9. Holocentrus ascensionis (Osbeck). 39. 



10. Selar crumenophthalmus (Bloch). 40. 



11. Caranx ruber (Bloch). 41. 



12. C. hippos (Linne). 42. 



13. Vomer spixii (Swanison). 



14. Trachinotus glaucus (Bloch). 43. 



15. T.falcatus (Linne). 44. 



16. Petrometopon cruentatus (Lace- 



pede). 45. 



17. Cephalopholis fulvus (Linne). *46. 



18. Epinephelus striatus (Bloch). 47. 



19. Alphesies chloroplcrus (Cuvier). 48. 



20. Mycteroperca ruber (Bloch). 49. 



21. Hypopleclrus unicolor (Walbaum). 50. 



22. H. unicolor guttavarius (Poeyj. 51. 



23. Paranthias furcifer (Valenciennes) 52. 



24. Rypticus saponaceus (Schneider). 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



53. S. abildgaardi (Bloch). 



54. S. flavescens (Schneider). 



Recorded as Scarus chrysopterus 

 by Cope. 



55. S. rubripinne (Valenciennes). 



56. Callyodon diadema (Valenciennes). 



57. C. taeniopterus (Desmarest). 



58. C. croicensis (Bloch). 



59. C. vetula (Schneider). 



60. Chatodon ocellatus Bloch. 

 *61. C. sedei^tarius Poey. 



62. C. striatus Linne. 



63. C. capistratus Linne. 



64. Pomacanthus arcuatus (Linne). 



65. Holacanthus tricolor (Bloch). 



66. Angelichthys ciliaris (Linne). 



67. Hepatus caerulens (Schneider). 



68. H. hepatus (Linne). 



69. Batistes vetula Linne. 



t70. Xanthichthys ringens (Linne). 



t7L Melichthys piceus Poey. 



t72. Cantherines pullus (Ranzani). 



73. Lactophrys triqueter (Linne). 



74. L. tricornis (Linne). 



t75. Scorpcena grandicornis Cuvier. 



*76. Lahrisomus rutchipinuis (Quoy 



and Gaimard). 

 77. Platophrys lunulatus (Linne). 



t78. Antennarius mulliocellatus (Va- 

 lenciennes) . 



9. 



St. Christophers, British West Indies. 



Cope also had a small collection from this island, sometimes called 

 St. Kitts, obtained by Benjamin H. Lightfoot. 



fl. Gymnothorax moringua (Cuvier). 

 Recorded as G. rostratus by 

 Cope. 



2. Ablennes Mans (Valenciennes). 



3. Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linne). 

 t4. Caranx hippus (Linne). 

 *5. C. latus Agassiz. 



6. Cephalopholis fulvus (Linne). 

 t7. Epinephelus )naculosus (Valen- 

 ciennes) . 



Cope mentions it as E. lunu- 

 latus. 

 8. Lutjanus vivanus (Cuvier). 



{Lutjanus torridus Cope, 1. c, 

 p. 469; Ocyurus torridus fig. 5). 



10. 



n. 



*12. 

 13'. 

 14. 

 15. 



16. 

 17. 



tl8. 

 tl9. 



Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch). 



(0. rijgersmaei Cope, Trans. 



Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., n. s., 



XIV, 1871, p. 468, fig. 4.) 

 Aprion macrophthalmus (Miiller 



and Troschel). 

 Conodon nobilis (Linne). 

 Calamus calamus (Cuvier). 

 Upeneus maculatus (Bloch). 

 U. martinicus Cuvier. 

 Sparisoma chrysopterum (Schn.). 

 Pomacanthus paru (Bloch). 

 Holacanthus tricolor (Bloch). 

 Hepatus hepatus (Linne). 

 Balistes vetula Linne. 



Jamaica. 



In 1892 Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell compiled ''A Provisional List 

 of the Fishes of Jamaica/'" the first attempt to collect in orderly 

 arrangement the species mentioned in the various scattered works. 

 The hst by Richard Hill in 1855 is allocated, but as it "is httle more 

 than a catalogue of names, many of which are but doubtfully cor- 

 rect," it had best be discarded. As Cockerell gives a short bibliog- 

 raphy at the end of his paper, only subsequent papers are mentioned 

 here. Aulostoma 7naculatuin and Rhinohatos undulatus are recorded 

 by Cockerell^ ^ the next year, and a little later J. E. Duerden men- 

 tions a number of food fishes^^ and C. H. T. Townsend has remarks 

 on Sicydium.^'' Jordan and Rutter report the collection of fishes 



" Bull. No. 1, Inst, of Jamaica (Kingston), 1892, pp. 1-16. 



*^ Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, No. 5, January, 1893. p. 178. 



16 L. c, II, April, 1895, No. 11, pp. 166-7; March, 1899, No. 6, p. 614. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



made by Joseph Seed Roberts in Kingston.^* Boulenger describes 

 Ceratohatis rohertsi,'^^ and finally the writer has given a list of a small 

 collection of fishes obtained at Port Antonio by Charles W. Johnson 

 and William J. Fox.^" 



During the early winter of 1891 Dr. J. Percy Moore made a collec- 

 tion of the fishes, listed below, in Jamaica. All are now contained in 

 the University of Pennsylvania. Most are food-fishes, or such as 

 were abundant at the time. Locality labels, other than simply 

 Jamaica, are Kingston, Lucea, Port Antonio, and Port Moran, 

 indicated by the letters K., L., A. and M., respectively. 



1. Ginglymostoma cirratum (Bonnaterre) . 



2. Eulamia platyodon Poey. "Black Shark." 



Teeth narrow, entire, at least below. Pectoral width half its 

 length, reaches opposite hind basal dorsal edge. Snout length | its 

 width. Length 1012 mm. 



3. Scoliodon terrce-novce (Richardson). 8. Gymnothorax funebris (Ranzaiii). 



K. A. 



4. Sphyrna zygcena (Linne). L. 9. Strongylura titnucu (Walbaum). 



5. Elops saurus Linne. L. 



6. Albula vulpes (Linne). L. 10. S. raphidoma (Ranzani). L. 



7. Synodus fwtens (Linne). K. IL Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linne). 



12. Cypselurus lutkeni (Jordan and Evermann). L. 



Head 4g; depth 5f; D. ii, 11; A. ii, 8; snout 4| in head; eye 3|; 

 maxillary 4; interorbital 2|. Anal base If in dorsal base. Upper- 

 most pectoral ray simple, second divided, third and fourth longest. 

 Pectoral uniform dusky-brown medially, edges pale. Ventral in- 

 serted about midway between last fourth of opercle and caudal base. 

 In alcohol dorsal pale at present, but with traces of dusky above. 

 Length 220 mm. (caudal lobe damaged). 



13. Syngnathus mackayi (Swain and Meek). 



Head 6 J; D. 30; rings 16+32; dorsal on two body lings and 6 

 caudal rings. Snout about If in head. Median snout line with 

 slight keel above and below and smaller lateral keels. Opercle 

 with radiating striae, not keeled. Dorsal about high as body-ring 

 width, base H in head. Pectoral longer than base. Tail If in 

 total length. Body moderately deep. In alcohol uniform brown. 

 Length 134 mm. Probably Jamaica ?. 



14. Hippocampus punctulatus Guichenot. 



" 1. c, II, April, 1895, No. 11, pp. 175-6. 

 '8 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1897, pp. 91-134. 

 " Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (6) XX, 1897, pp. 227-8. 

 20 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, pp. 118-119. 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



147 



D. 17. Snout 2^ in head. Length 65 mm. K. 



15. Fistularia tabacaria Lirme. 



Upper lateral snout edges entire, 

 fin. A. 



16. Mugil curema Valenciennes. L. 



17. Sphyrcpna barracuda (Walbaum). 



Jamaica? 



18. S. guachancho Cuvier. L. 



19. Ti-ichiurus lepturus Linne. K. 



20. OligopHtes saurus (Schneider). L. 



27. Chloroscombrus chrysurus (Linne). 



Head 4^; depth 2|; snout 3f in head measured from upper jaw- 

 tip; eye 4; maxillary 2f ; interorbital 3|. Length 290 mm. K. It 

 differs from the nominal C. eciemurus Jordan and Rutter in the 

 snout longer than the eye. Also 2 from L. 



About 350 mm. to end of caudal 



21. Selar crumenophthalmus (Bloch , 



22. Caranx ruber (Bloch). 



23. C. hippos (Linne). 



24. C. cry SOS (Mitchill). 



2.5. C. latus Agassiz. K. L. 



26. Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill). L. 



28. Trachinotus glaucus (Bloch). L. 



29. Astrapogon stellatus (Cope). 



30. CentropomuspedimacukiFoey. K. 



31. C. mexicanus Bocourt. 



32. C. paraUelus Poey. 



33. Cephalopholis punctatus (Linne). 



34. Epinephelus flavolimbatus Poey. 



35. E. striatus (Bloch). 



36. E. maculosus (Valenciennes). 



37. E. inorio (Valenciennes). L. 



38. Rypticus arenatus Cuvier. 



39. Priacanthus cruentatus (Lacepede). 



40. Lutjanus griseus (Linne). 



41. L. jocu (Schneider). K. 



42. L. analis (Cuvier). K. 



43. L. synagris (Linne). L. K. 



44. Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch). K. L. 



45. Hcemulon parra (Desmarest). K. 



46. H. melanurum (Linne). 



47. H. sciurus (Shaw). L. 



48. H. plumieri (Lacepede). A. 



49. Bathystoma rimator (Jordan and 



Swain). K. 



50. Brachydeiiterus corvincefortnis 



(Steindachner). M. 



51. Eucinostomus pseudogulaFoey. K. 



52. E. gula (Quoy and Gaimard). K, 



53. Gerres rhombeus Cuvier. L. A. 



54. G. plumieri Cuvier. L. K. 



oo. Micropogon furnieri (Desmarest). 

 K. 



56. Umbrina cor aides Cuvier. 



57. Polydactylus virginicus (Linne). 



M. 



58. Lachnolaimus maximus (Walbaum). 



L. 



59. Sparisoma ruhripinne Valenciennes. 



L. 



60. Callyodon acutus Poey. 



Head 2|; depth 3; D. IX, 10; 

 caudal base; 2 scales above 1. 1. 



A. II, 9; scales 17+6 and 1 more on 

 6 below; 8 predorsal scales; snout 

 2 1 in head; eye 5|; mouth 5 J; interorbital 2|. Body elongate, w^ell 

 compressed, profiles alike. Head compressed, rather pointed. Snout 

 about long as wide. Eye slightly advanced. ]\Iouth half way to 

 eye. No posterior canines. Interorbital convex. Cheek wdth 3 

 rows of scales, lowest row of 4 scales on preopercle limb. L. 1. inter- 

 rupted by scale behind, tubes with several slight inconspicuous 

 bifurcations. Caudal scaly basally f its length. Dorsal spines 

 flexible. Color in alcohol with broad sulphur-yellow shade as streak 

 below first, then widens above pectoral and extends back to caudal 

 peduncle. Above on head leaden hand as if through eye, though 

 little wider than pupil and bordered above with sulphur-yellow, 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



extending back to about opposite depressed pectoral tip. Back 

 lilac-brown, largely pale. Belly and below very pale brown. Teeth 

 whitish. Iris yellowish. Dorsal pale hyaline greenish, base broadly 

 and edge narrowly yellowish-brown. Anal hyaline-greenish, with 

 narrow basal yellowish-brown line and broad submarginal band. 

 Pectoral and ventral pale. Caudal brownish, upper and lower edges 

 pale. Length 180 mm. L. 



61. C. caeruleus (Bloch). 



62. C. emblematicus (Jordan and Rutter). 



Head 3; depth 3; D. IX, 10; A. Ill, 9; scales 17-^5 and 2 more on 

 caudal base; 2 scales above 1. 1., 6 below; snout 2f in head; eye 5; 

 mouth 4f; interorbital 3|. Body well compressed, profiles alike, 

 evenly ellipsoid. Head compressed. Snout long as wide. Eye 

 slightly advanced. No posterior canines. Interorbital convex. 

 Cheek with 3 rows of scales, lowest row on preopercle limb of 4. 

 Scales on caudal base over f of fin. Dorsal spines rather pungent, 

 \Adth flexible ends. Color in alcohol pale buff -brown generally. 

 Broad lengthwise deep brown band from above eye to last dorsal 

 ray bases, another from snout tip through eye to upper caudal lobe 

 medially. Fainter third parallel band begins in cheek below pre- 

 orbital, extends to pectoral base and then to lower caudal lobe me- 

 dially, where ending in slight spots. Rows of scales below pectorals 

 each with median white line, which extends from gill-opening till 

 opposite vent, and rows number three. Fins all pale brownish, 

 edges of dorsal and caudal, also caudal base, same. Length 150 

 mm. L. 



CaUijodon margarita Fowler,^^ from Panama, is undoubtedly a 

 synonym, the four upper posterior canines simply a variation. Jor- 

 dan and Evermann do not indicate the lower dark band along the 

 lower side of the head or distinct at caudal base, and there is no 

 indication of white abdominal lines, nor are they mentioned by 

 Jordan and Rutter. 



63. ChcEtodon striatus Linne. L. 66. Angelichthys ciliaris (Linne). 



64. C. capiistraius Linne. L. 67. Hepalus cceruleus (Schneider). A. 



65. Pomacanthus arcuatus (Linne). L. 



68. Melichthys piceus Poey. 



D. Ill — 34; A. 32; scales 55 from gill-opening to caudal base; 

 snout Ij in head; eye 4| in snout; interorbital If; first dorsal spine 

 If; pectoral If. Caudal truncate, ends pointed. Color in alcohol 



21 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1917, p. 133, fig. 2. Colon. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



black, with narrow white line along dorsal and anal bases. Caudal 

 entirely black. Length 295 mm. L. 



69. Monacanthus hispidus (Linne). K. 78. Dactylopterus volitans (Liime). K. 



70. Alutera punctata Agassiz. K. 79. Philypnus dormitor (Lacepede). 



71. Lactophrys triqueter (Linne). L. 



72. L. tricoriiis (Linne). K. A. L. 80. Mapo soporator (Valenciennes). 



73. L. bicaudalis (Linne). L. L. 



74. Spheroides testudinens (Linne). K. 8L Ctenogobius lyricus (Gir&rd). L. 



75. Chilomycterus atinga (Linne). L. 82. GobioneUus oceanicus (Pallas). L. 



K. 83. Leptecheneis naiicrates (Linne). K. 



76. Scorpoena plumieri Bloch. L. 84. Malacanthus ptumieri (Bloch). 



77. Prionotus rubio Jordan. K. 



85. Gobiesox cerasinus Cope. 



D. 6. A. 7. Upper teeth irregularly in several series, and lower 

 teeth entire incisors. Head broad as long. Color in alcohol pale 

 brownish, apparently reddish when fresh. 



86. Malacoctenus gillii (Steindachner). 88. Achirus lineatus (Linne). L. 



87. Citharichthys spilopterus Giinther. 89. Oncocephalus vespertilio (Linne). 



L. 



Hayti. 



While at Port-au-Prince in December, 1917, IMr. P. C. Houseman 

 secured a few fishes which he presented to the Academy. They 

 are listed below. The few papers relative to the fish-fauna of Hayti- 

 Santo Domingo, are chiefly Hilgendorf's account^- and the notes 

 on the Eckman collection by Lonnberg.-^ Various scattered records 

 and descriptions are found in the principal works of Cuvier, Valen- 

 ciennes, Dumeril, Gunther and Vaillant and Bocourt. Evermann 

 and Clark^^ described several new forms more recently and the 

 viviparous cyprinodonts are included in Regan's paper,-^ while 

 Rivuhis heyei is described by Nichols.'-*^ Finally, the writer" re- 

 ported the Gabb collection from Santo Domingo, received at the 

 Academy in 1871, 1872 and 1874. 



1. Atherina laticeps Cuvier. 3. Abudefduf mauritii (Bloch). 



2. Gerres rhombeus Cuvier. 



Bahaivl^s. 



Cope gives the first faunal list in his "Ichthyology of the Lesser 

 Antilles," already referred to. This was based on the collection 

 made by Dr. H. C. Wood at Nassau, and received at the Academy 



22 Sitz. Ges. Naturf. Freunde Berlin, 1889, pp. 51-55. 



23 Oefvers. Svensk. Vet. .\kad. Forh., LII, 1895, pp. 657-663. 

 2^ Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, 1906, pp. 851-855, figs. 1-3. 

 25Proc. Z. S. London, 1913, pp. 977-1018, Pis. 99-101. 



26 Bull. Amer. Mus. N. Hist. X. Y., XXXIII, 1914, pp. 143-144. 



27 Copeia, No. 24, November 19, 1915, p. 50. 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



in 1861. Such material as is still extant and which I examined is 

 indicated by the prefixed asterisk. Several subsequent papers by- 

 Jordan and Bollman,^^ Garman'^^ and B. A. Bean^" are important 

 contributions. In November and December of 1890 Dr. J. Percy 

 Moore visited New Providence Island at Port Nassau, Grand Inagua, 

 Fortune Island, Eleuthera, and Grand Cayman, localities 

 indicated respectively by P., G., F., E. and C. This material, with 

 a few fishes obtained at Port Nassau by the late Prof. C. S. DoUey, 

 is in the University of Pennsylvania.^^ 



20. Diplectrum formosum (Linne). E. 



21. Rijpticus saponaceus (Schneider). 

 G. 



Lutjanus griseus (Linne). 

 L. apodus (Walbaum). F. 

 L. analis (Cuvier). F. 

 L. hrachypterus Cope. 

 (L utjanus brachypterus 

 1. c, p. 470.) 

 *26. Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch). P. 

 *27. Hcemulon album Cuvier. G., P. 

 *2S. H. tnelanurum (Linne). P. 

 29. H. sciurus (Shaw). 

 *.30. H. plumieri (Lacepede). P., G. 

 *3L H . flavolineatum (Desmarest). F. 

 *32. Anisotremus virginicus (Linne). 

 33 Calamus calamus (Valenciennes). 

 F., P. 

 C. bajonado (Schneider). P. 

 C. proridens Jordan and Gilbert. 



*L Harengula pensacolce Goode. E. 

 *2. H. macrophthalma (Ranzani). 

 3. Conger conger (Linne). C. 

 *4. GytnnotJwrax moringua (Cuvier). 

 5. Exocoetus volitans Linne. North 



of Bahama Bank. 

 *6. Hippocampus punctulatus Guich- 

 enot. 



One from Mrs. G. A. Hubbell. 

 *7. Holocentrus ascensionis (Osbeck). 



F. 

 *8. H. siccifer Cope. 



{Holocentrum sicciferuvi Cope, 

 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila. 

 XIV, 1871, p. 46.5.) 

 *9. Selar crumenophthalmus (Bloch). 

 *10. Caranx ruber (Bloch). 

 *11. Trachinotus glaucus (Bloch). 

 *12. Astra pogon stellatus (Cope). 



{Apogonichthys stellatus Cope, 



1. c, p. 400.) 



*13. Petrometopon cruentatus coronatus. 



*14. CephalophoHs fulviis (Linne). G., 



P., E., F. 

 *15. C. fulvus ouatalibi (Valenciennes). 

 16. Epinephelus niveatus (Valen- 

 ciennes). P. 

 *17. E. striatus (Bloch). 



Several examples in the Uni- 

 versity collection, one from 

 Nutria and one from Prof. 

 DoUey. 

 *18. E. maculosus (Valenciennes). 

 19. E. ascensionis (Osbeck). Conez 

 (DoUey). 



22 

 23 



*24, 

 *25 



G., P. 



Cope, 



*34. 

 .3.5. 



*.36. 

 *37. 

 *.38. 



39. 



40. 



*41. 



*42. 

 *43. 



*44. 

 45. 



*46. 



E. 



Eucinostomus pseudogula Poey. 



E. gula Quoy and Gaimard. 



Upeneus martinicus Cuvier. G. 



U. maculatus (Bloch). P. 



Micropogon furnieri (Desmarest). 

 F. 



Pomacentrus leucostictus (M tiller 

 and Troschel). 



Abudefduf marginatus (Bloch). 



Lachnolaimus maximus (Wal- 

 baum). 



Bodianus rufus (Linne). 



Halichoeres bivittatus (Bloch). F. 



Chlorichthys bifasciatus (Bloch). 



47. Sparisoma niphobles Jordan and BoUman. 



Upper canine each side. Caudal truncate when expanded, slightly 

 emarginate when closed. No scarlet stripe below eye to mouth 



28 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1889, pp. 549-5.53. 



23 Bull. Lab. Univ. Iowa, IV, 1896, pp. 76-93, 4 Pis. 



'0 The Bahama Islands (Baltimore), 1905, pp. 293-325. PI. 



^' I also found Exoccetus volitans Linne, Atherina laticeps Poey and Mugil 

 curema Valenciennes, in the University collection labeled Crooked Island, French 

 West Indies. 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



151 



angle. Pectoral 4^ in total length. Pectoral base dusky, axillary 

 spot obsolete. Opercular edge brownish, not dusky. Chin and 

 head below pale uniform brownish. Length 190 mm. G. 



S. aurofrenatum (Valenciennes). G. 



S. abildgaardi (Bloch). P. 



S. ruhripinne (Valenciennes). G. 



Callyodon tOBniopterus (Desmar- 

 est). G. 



Chwtodon ocellatus Bloch. 



C. capistratu^ Linne. G. 



Pomacanthus arcuatus (Linne). 



Angelichthys ciliaris (Linne). G. 



Hepatus cceruleus (Schneider). 

 *57. H. hepatus (Linne). 

 58. H. bahianus (Castelnau). P. 

 *59. Alidcra schoepffii (Walbaum). 

 60. Lactophrys triqueter (Linne). G. 

 *6L L. tricornis (Linne). G. 



48. 

 49. 

 50. 

 5L 



*52. 

 53. 



*54. 

 *55. 

 *56. 



*62. Spheroides spengleri (Bloch). 

 *6.3. Chilomyderus alinga (Linne). 

 Dadylopterus volitans (Linne). 

 Mapo soporalor (Valenciennes). 

 Leptecheiieis naucrates (Linne). 

 Malacanthus plumieri (Bloch). 



P., C. 

 Carapus affinis (Gunther). 



Two from the Bahamas, in 1877 



(DoUey). 

 Malacoctenus biguttatus (Cope). 



{Labrisomus biguttatus Cope, 



Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila. 



n. s., XIV, 1871, p. 473.) 

 70. Plaophry.i lunatus (Linne). 



*64. 



*65. 



*66. 



67. 



68. 



•=69. 



Florida. 



During iVIarch and April, 1918, a small collection of rather large 

 commercial fishes was sent to the Academy for determination in 

 fresh state. As several were desiderata they were placed in the 

 museum. In the summer of 1916 a number of live fishes as sent 

 to the Philadelphia Aquarium from Key West, and afterward several 

 were receiv^ed at the Academy. The latter are indicated below 

 by the prefixed asterisk. On March 10, 1917, Mr. Morgan Hebard 

 collected a few fishes at Biscayne Bay and Soldier Key. During 

 May of 1919 Mr. Hebard made another collection, at Useppa Island 

 in Charlotte Harbor. All his material has kindly been presented 

 to the Academy, and I am further indebted to him for the field- 

 notes, common names, etc., included below. Localities gi'Ven below 

 refer to his material exclusively. 



1. Jenkinsia stolifera (Jordan and Gilbert). 



Color in life translucent. Found in large schools in deep water. 

 Useppa Island. 



2. Harengula pensacolse Goode and Bean. "Hard-scaled Sardine." 



With the next in large schools in deep water. Both shy and taken 

 in cast-nets. Useppa Island. 



3. Opisthonema oglinum (Le Sueur). "Soft-scaled Sardine." 



4. Fundulus grandis Baird and Giiard. "Chub." 



Largest female 145 mm. and male 103 mm. When fresh male 

 with hind caudal edge rather broadly gray-white, though pale bluish 

 in the live fish while in the water. Anal and dorsal basally, and 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



caudal, with fine white dots. Upper dorsal edge, most of anal, 

 and all of ventral and pectoral rich orange. In life each scale on 

 sides with the pale or median areas of the preserved fish brilliant 

 metallic greenish -blue. 



These fish live in polluted shallow water, not roving about, and 

 where the bottom is a dark ooze. The larger females were found in 

 the deeper shoals in schools, usually about sandy bottoms. They 

 were active, constantly moving about. In life much paler. Useppa 

 Island. 



5. Cyprinodon mydrus Cioode and Bean. 



Lives on sandy bottoms in shoals. Though shy during the day 

 they were easily captured at night with a light. Like the "sand 

 perch" the dark vertical bands are conspicuous features at night 

 as viewed from above with the aid of an artificial light. The bands 

 disappear, however, as soon as the fish are lifted from the water. 

 In life the spots on the head and trunk are very brilliant golden. 

 Useppa Island. 



6. MoUienisia latipinna Le Sueur. 



Local in polluted water with bottom of dark ooze. Useppa Island. 



7. Strongylura notata (Poey). "Needle Fish." 



A number of young examples without scales. Found on the sur- 

 face is shoals. Useppa Island. 



8. Hyporhamphus roberti (Valenciennes). "Bally-hoo." " Hoiuid-flsh." 



When fresh end of mandible deep blood-red. Dorsal and anal 

 lobes and most of caudal blackish, and former conspicuously con- 

 trasted with whitish bases. Sides of body and eye brilliant silvery- 

 white. Back pale olive-green, each scale with broad dark olive 

 submarginal streak. Pectoral grayish. Ventral white. Length 

 222 mm. Useppa Island. 



9. Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linne). 



Ocean off Biscayne Bay. Although Jordan recently contends 

 H. balao Le Sueur is distinct I have been unable to distinguish it 

 among my collections. 



I have seen this species, while in the Florida Keys in 1904, rise 

 out of the water and with a peculiar sculling motion of the tail, all 

 the time the fish appearing nearly vertical in the air, move along the 

 surface a hundred feet or more. Mr. Hebard recently saw num- 

 bers of the preceding also rise out of the water, as his boat pushed on, 

 and elevate their bodies about 60° and move off in similar manner 




1919. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



153 



13. 



and 



for 50 to 100 feet. Sometimes they would leave the water completely, 

 though only for very short intervals or spaces of about 4 to 8 feet. 

 The whole performance is quite suggestive of flying-fishes.^' 

 *10. Holocentrus ascensionis (Osbeck). 11. Mugil cephalus Linne. 

 12. M. curema Valenciennes. 



Six young in the Querimana stage from Useppa Island 18 to 20 

 mm. long, and having 10 branched anal rays. A larger example, 

 also in the same stage or about 45 mm. long and which I assigned 

 to AI. cephalus^^ agrees. It is also likely that the one I identified 

 as the young of M. curema^^ from Santo Domingo is really M. cephalus. 



Mr. Hebard found the young mullets in very small schools, of 

 about 5 to 20 individuals, at the surface. A small quadrate area of 

 the dorsal portion of the back was out of the water, conspicuously 

 shining silvery, though other parts of the body hardly noticeable. 

 These fish dart forward, all together, in short jerks, and would not 

 leave the surface unless greatly alarmed. When disturbed or scat- 

 tered they reassembled in a few moments at the surface. 



31. Calamus proridens Jordan and 

 Gilbert. 



32. Lagodon rJiomboides (Linne). 

 '■'Pinfish." 



Usejjpa Island. Common in 

 shoals, among weeds and under 

 docks. 



33. Archosargus probatocephalus (Wal- 

 bamn). 



34. Diplodus holbrooki (Bean) . "Sail- 

 or's Choice." 



Useppa Island. Locally with 

 the grunts in deep water about 

 docks. 



35. Eucinostomus harengulus (Goode 

 and Bean). "Sand Perch." 

 "Sand Brem." 



Useppa Island. These ver- 

 naculars also applied to the 

 next, though the species not 

 distinguished by the fishermen. 

 Both were moderately common 

 in shoals, particularly on sandy 

 bottoms. 



36. E. gula (Valenciennes). 



37. Cynoscion nehidosus (Cuvier). 



38. Bairdiella chrysura (Lacepede). 

 L'seppa Island. Young exam- 

 ples, all showing 3 large spines 

 at preopercle angle. 



39. Scicenops ocellatus (Linne). 



Menidia peninsulm Goode 

 Bean. "Glass Minnow." 

 Found in schools on sandy bot- 

 toms in the shoals. Useppa 

 Island. 



14. Caranx hippos (Linne). 



15. Trachinotus falcatus (Bloch). 



16. T. carolinus (Linne). 



17. Centropomus undecimalis (Bloch). 

 *18. Epinephelus striatus (Bloch). 

 *19. E. maculosus (Valenciennes). 



20. E. morio (Valenciennes). 

 *21. Myderoperca honaci (Poey). 



22. M. microlepis (Goode and Bean). 



23. Dipleclrum formosum (Linne). 

 Biscayne Bay. 



Lutjanus griseus (Linne). "Man- 

 grove Snapper." 

 Soldier Key and Useppa Island. 

 Young, numerous under docks 

 at latter locality. 



25. L. synagris (Linne). 



26. H(Emulon sciurus (Shaw). 

 Soldier Key. 



H. plumieri (Lacepede). 



Bathystoma rimator (Jordan and 

 Swain) . 



Anisotreynus virginicus (Linne). 



Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linne). 

 "Grunt." 



Useppa Island. Very abun- 

 dant in deep water about docks. 



24. 



27 



*28 



*29 

 30 



32 Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., 55, 1919, p. 397, fig. Havana. 



33 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, p. 744, fig. 1. 

 3" L. c, fig. 2. 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



40. Leiostomus xanthurus Lacepede. 45. B. carolinensis Gmelin. 



"Spot." 46. Monacanthus hispidus (Linne). 



Useppa Island. 47. Spheroides hnrperi Nichols. 



*41. Chcetodipterus faber (Broussonet). 48. Lactophrys tricornis (Linne). 



*42. Pomacanthus arcuatus (Linne). 49. Chilomycteriis schoepfi (Walbaum). 



*43. Angelichthys ciliaris (Linne). 50. Opsanus tau (Linne). 

 44. Balisles vetula Linne. Biscayne Bay. 



5L Rhombochirus osteochir (Cuvier). 



Head 4^; depth 8; D. XVIII— iii, 22; A. iii, 22; P. I, 22; snout 2| 

 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 7; maxillary 3; inter- 

 orbital 1 1. Body slender in profile, depressed in front and moderately 

 elongate, slender caudal peduncle compressed. Head width about 

 Ij its length. Snout broad, half long as wide. Eye small, high, 

 hind pupil edge about midway in head length. Mouth broad, gape 

 about half way to eye. Maxillary ends before eye slightly less than 

 eye diameter. Upper teeth in 3 rows, inner largest, well spaced and 

 fewest, median irregular, and very minute outer close-set, even, 

 simple, conic, forming lashed or ribbed appearance, especially along 

 each side of jaw within mouth. Outer upper teeth also extend on 

 premaxillary, followed by 4 or 5 large well-spaced teeth on maxillary 

 edge. Band of fine teeth in lower jaw, most pronounced on sides 

 of jaw anteriorly but not evident posteriorly or at symphysis so 

 none extend back beyond fine teeth on premaxillary. Broad band 

 of minute vomerine teeth edged in front and anteriorly with row 

 of larger teeth. Tongue narrow, free in front and covered with fine 

 teeth. Gill-opening extends forward about opposite maxillary tip. 

 Rakers i, 1+9 iii, lanceolate, about half length of filaments. Skin 

 smooth, apparently scaleless. Disk width about 2j its length, which 

 2 1 from snout tip to caudal base, laminae quite spinescent. Dorsal 

 origin midway between twelfth disk lamina and caudal base, fin 

 elevated from first dorsal ray. Anal inserted very slightly behind 

 dorsal origin, similar. Caudal If in head, hind edge concave and 

 lobes convex, though lower slightly longer. Pectoral rhomboid, 

 rays very rigid or stiff, fin rhomboid. If in head. Ventral inserted 

 directly behind pectoral base, 2j in head. Color when fresh in 

 alcohol largely pale to whitish on disk and variably over upper left 

 side, including eye and most of pectoral. Pale area also gives off 

 pale line down to vent and inside gill-opening. Iris whitish with 

 pale yellowish tint. Though left pectoral largely white, except gray 

 border, and basal Ijlotch, right pectoral dull purplish-brown with 

 pale inferior blotch. Dorsal and anal slaty-black or nearly whitish 

 narrowly along bases. Caudal dusky to blackish medially, lower 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



lobe marginally pale gray, upper darker. Anterior to vent dark 

 body color mostly purplish-gray, posteriorly brownish. Ventral 

 neutral dusky with very narrow pale edge behind. Length 133 

 mm. 



The above example of this rare fish was found on an adult Isti- 

 ophorus nigricans captured in the Gulf Stream 1^ miles south of 

 Fowey Rock Light, Florida, in March, 1919. It was secured for the 

 Academy by Mr. Morgan Hebard. He tells me the Istiophorus 

 was 6 feet 8 inches long and when hauled on board the Rhomhochirus 

 continued to adhere to the post-pectoral region of its host, remaining 

 quiet. When pulled off b}^ the tail it became quite active. Mr. 

 Hebard also notes that in life the color had a smooth and immaculate 

 mouse-brown appearance, strikingly marked about the pectoral, 

 head and disk with whitish. While alive these markings were 

 sjmimetrical, though now as described previously, the change took 

 place immediately after death. In life the pectorals had 

 conspicuous dark borders and pale centers. 



Valenciennes figures the species from the sea of the Antilles, show- 

 ing the dorsal origin about midw^ay between the sixth dorsal lamina 

 and the caudal base, color largely uniform brownish with neutral 

 tints or only disk pale, pectoral brown, ventral pale or gamboge and 

 the eye much smaller than in my example. ^^ Poey examined several 

 examples which he named Echeneis tetrapturorum^^ up to 300 mm. 

 long. As may be inferred, Poey's examples were all from Tetrapturus, 

 while the present one seems to indicate a new host for the species. 



^' Cuv. Regne Animal (Ed. 111.,) 1839, 312, PL 108, fig. 3. 



36 Mem. Hist. N. Cuba, II, 1858, p. 256, PI. 18, fig. 2 (pectoral fin). Cuba. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



SYNONYMIC STUDY ON THE MOLLUSKS OF THE DEPARTEMENT 



DES ALPES-MARITIMES MENTIONED BY ANTOINE RISSO' 



WITH NOTES ON THEIR CLASSIFICATION 



By Commandant E. Caziot 

 (Translated, and with Introductory Note, by William Healey Dall) 



[The work of Risso is important, apart from its monographic 

 character, for the reason that the author introduced many new 

 generic and specific names, thus modifying the current nomenclature. 

 During a brief visit to Nice in 1906, I found that the Risso collection 

 was still in the possession of his heirs, and not in any pubhc museum. 

 As criticisms of subsequent authors indicated that several of the 

 species upon which some of Risso 's new names were founded had 

 been incorrectly determined by him, it was highly important that 

 their identity should be fixed. No living author is more familiar 

 with the landshells of the district than the present distinguished 

 Director of the Municipal Museum at Nice, and, after some cor- 

 respondence, he kindly consented to summarize his conclusions from 

 a study of the original collection, now unfortunately not in the best 

 state of preservation. The shells of the Risso collection had orig- 

 inally been mounted in cartons, but in the course of more than ninety 

 years many of them have been detached and others lost through 

 the natural accidents to which such a collection is liable when not 

 in expert custody. Hence a certain number of identifications are 

 irretrievably lost. For such as still remain practicable students of 

 the subject will be under deep obligations to the author of this paper. 

 W. H. D.] 



Risso is the first author to publish a general review of the land and 

 fresh- water shells of the Maritime Alps. 



His work has been the subject of a review by two critics, first, 

 that of Gabriel Mortillet, who, in 1851, in the Bulletin de la Societe 

 d'Histoire Naturelle de Savoie (p. 72), said that the descriptions of 

 shells by Risso left much to be desired; and secondly by Bourguignat, 



* Histoire Naturelle des Principales Productions de 1' Europe Meridionale, 

 et Particulierement de celles des Environs de Nice et des Alpes Maritimes, vol. 

 IV, Paris, Levrault, 182G. 8° pp. 440, pi. 11. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



ten years later, in his Etude Synonymigue sur les Mollusques des 

 Alpes-maritimes. He treated the author with great severity, calling 

 him a writer without judgment, an indefatigable but absurd inno- 

 vator, etc. 



It is evident that Antoine Risso was imperfectly acquainted with 

 the works of his predecessors, and that he attempted to cover too 

 wide a field, including plants, crustaceans, fish, mammals, birds, 

 geology, mineralogy, etc, etc. 



One cannot be a universal naturalist. If one desires to produce 

 authoritative work, it is necessary unless one is a genius of the first 

 order, to study but a single chapter of natural history, since the 

 field is too vast. The division of work is necessary even to those of 

 exceptional intelligence, and the subdivision of that which is now 

 regarded as a specialty will naturally be necessary in the future. 



In his synonymical study Bourguignat has used a criticism too 

 bitter and acrimonious. It is not the language which a master 

 should employ with regard to the errors of his predecessors. Drapar- 

 naud, the creator of French conchology, said truly that he who 

 opens the way has a right to indulgence, even if he has done poorly; 

 to glory if he has done well; and to gratitude when his successor 

 has done better than he. Risso was not conscious of the errors that 

 he committed. He must have been satisfied of the correct deter- 

 mination of his species, since in the introduction to his fourth volume 

 he realizes the importance of this point in citing the words of Cuvier 

 that "the precise determination of species and their distinctive 

 characters forms the fundamental basis on which all the investi- 

 gations in natural history should rest." 



The Risso collection remains in the possession of the son of the 

 nephew of the great naturalist at his estate of St. Roch at the gates 

 of Nice. It is visited by passing naturalists who experience serious 

 disappointment on discovering the absence or loss' of many speci- 

 mens mentioned and described as new by Risso. 



At the death of the eminent naturalist the person charged with 

 the care of his collections at St. Roch was, I have been told, com- 

 pletely ignorant of natural history; she made grave mistakes; mixed 

 exotic and native species, many among them bear no indication of 

 habitat, and a great number have become detached from their car- 

 tons and scattered through the cases. It is impossible now to recog- 

 nize the greater part of the specimens which served Risso as types. 



In his introduction to the fourth volume Risso states in a final 

 note (p. VII) that his new genera and species of shells will be de- 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



posited in the Museum d' Histoire Naturelle, in order that zoologists 

 may assure themselves of the exactitude of his observations. 



However, none exists in the Museum at Nice, nor in the Museum 

 at Turin, and I believe it is certain that none is found either at 

 Genoa or Paris. The study of his species can therefore only be 

 undertaken in the private collection itself. 



In the following pages I have noted the conclusions which have 

 resulted fi-om my study of the specimens, and the differences of 

 opinion which I have with his previous eminent critics. The syn- 

 onymic study which I have undertaken before publishing the Fauna 

 of the Terrestrial and Fluviatile Mollusks of the Principality of Mon- 

 aco and of the Departement des Alpes-Maritimes, in 1910, relates 

 only to this part of the volume on Conchology. In the present 

 notes I review only the species mentioned by Risso, and in the order 

 in which they were placed by him. 



In taking up the slugs I can make but few notes because the speci- 

 mens, long since deprived of alcohol, are absolutely dessicated and 

 indeterminable. 



The numerals following the names are those of the original pagina- 

 tion in Risso's fourth volume. 



Arion lineatus Risso (55). Bourguignat asserts that this is the 

 Arion hortensis of Ferussac, since Risso's species differs only from 

 that of Ferussac by its lateral zones of a more orange tint. This is 

 not sufficient to establish their identity. PoUonera, in his Recense- 

 ment den Arions de la Region Palearctique, has retained Risso's 

 species, as that author specifies that his Arion had blackish eyes 

 and the foot of a dirty gray, and this color does not agree with that 

 of A. hortensis. It is probable, however, that Risso confused several 

 species under one name. 



LiMAX antiquorum (Fer.) Risso (55). Bourguignat states that 

 it is by an error that Risso said of this slug "clypes levi," because 

 the entoconch of this species is always concentrically striated. In 

 their monograph of Italian limaces M. M. Lessona and Pollonera 

 have demonstrated that this Limax antiquorum (pars) Ferussac^ is a 

 synonym of Limax maximus (pars) Moquin Tandon, and also a 

 synonym of Limax cellarius d'Argenville. Therefore Risso's species 

 should be called by this name. Under the name of antiquorum 

 Ferussac has moreover united in a single species all the large limaces, 

 cellarius, cinereo-niger, and their varieties. 



2 Hist. Moll. 1819, p. 4, figs. 2, 7 and 8. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



LiMAX GAGATEs (Drap.) Risso (55). This is the true gagates of 

 Draparnaad, the type of the genus Milax Gray. 



LiMAX VARiEGATUS (Drap.) Ris^ (56). Bourguignat considers 

 this slug as merely a variety of Limax maximus Linne, or L. cinereus 

 (pars) Miiller. The L. maximus of Linnaeus is identical with the 

 above mentioned L. cellarius. 



Limax marginatus (Drap.) Risso (56). Bourguignat regards this 

 as the L. marginatus of ^Nliiller (1774) and Draparnaud. The Limax 

 martinianus Bourg. (1869) is certainly one of the numerous varieties 

 of L. ynarginatus. 



Limax agrestis (L.) Risso (56). This is recognized by Bour- 

 guignat as correctly determined. The Limax niciensis and men- 

 lonicus mentioned by NevilP from the Maritime Alps are mere 

 varieties of L. agrestis, which in Liguria as in Tuscany varies much 

 in coloration and pattern. 



Limax carinatus Risso (56). The brief description given by 

 Risso has been completed by Bourguignat. The species is common 

 i n Ligm-ia. It should not be confused with Limax carinatus (Leach, 

 1820), Turton, 1831, renamed by Ferussac L. sowerhyi, the validity 

 of Leach's publication being doubtful, though the name was current 

 among authors 1820-23. There is also a Limax carinatus of Orbigny, 

 1839, which has been renamed polyptychus by Bourguignat, 1859. 



This species should be included under the genus Milax Gray 

 (better known as A7nalia Moquin Tandon) as pointed out by Bour- 

 guignat, 1854, and B. B. Woodward, 1903. The anatomical differ- 

 ences from Limax have been exposed by Sordelli in his Anatomy 

 of Limax etruscus Issel.* 



Limax lineolatus Risso (57). I have not discovered this species 

 in the district. The original specimen is decayed beyond recog- 

 nition. • 



Oris ferussaci Risso (57). A marine slug of the family Onchidi- 

 idae according to Bourguignat. Risso describes its habitat as in 

 moderate depth of water on muddy bottom. Not later recognized. 



Testacellus bisulcatus Risso (58). Mortillet united this spe- 

 cies with T. haliotidea Draparnaud, but since the latter does not 



3 Landshells of the Neighborhood of Mentone, Proc. Zool. Soc. London for 1880, 

 p. 103. 



* BuU. Mai. Ital. 1872, p. 5. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



occur in the district nor in the Departement du ^^ar. Bourguignat 

 has retained the name as valid. It has since been reported from 

 Morocco at Tangier by M. Hesse, in 1880. 



Testacella episcia Bourguignat. This species described from 

 the entoconch alone, no longer exists in the Risso collection. 



SucciNEA MAJOR Risso (59). The carton containing specimens 

 of this species also includes one specimen of Succinea putris L., 

 which must have come from elsewhere, as it is not known from the 

 Alpes-]Maritimes, nor even from the adjacent Departement du Var. 



The dimensions given by Risso for this species are 18.0 mm. in 

 length and for the S. elegans 10.0 mm. The two forms are identical, 

 and the species is common in the environs of Nice, varying from 

 ten to eighteen millimeters in length. 



The species was subsequently named S. Corsica by Shuttleworth, 

 but the name elegans has generally been adopted for it. The name 

 major does not appear in Clessin's Nomenclator of Pfeiffer, who re- 

 ferred both of Risso's species to varieties of S. putris L. 



Succinea elegans Risso (59). See remarks under the preceding. 

 In 1842, Pfeiffer named a species of Bulimulus, Succinea elegans. 



Helicogena pomatia (L.) Risso (60). This species exists in the 

 Alpes-Maritimes, but only in the high valleys of the Var, of the 

 Vesubie, and of the Tinee. 



Helicogena nemoralis (L.) Risso (60). Common in the De- 

 partment. It has not varied in form since the middle Pleistocene.^ 



Helicogena candidissima (Drap.) Risso (61). Common in the 

 Alpes-Maritimes below the altitude of 1200 meters. Risso's variety 

 is a scalar form. 



Helicogena splendida (Drap.) Risso (61). Risso says that this 

 species lives on the hills about Nice. He must have confused it 

 with H. niciensis of Ferussac. The H. splendida has not crossed 

 the Var and I have found no trace of it in the numerous quaternary 

 deposits of this region. It does exist on the right bank of the Var, 

 locally, at the extreme limit of the Department. Risso gives to 

 specimens which he had collected or which had been given to him 

 a diameter of 10 mm., there are none of this size in his collection. 



*See: Caziot et Maury, Tableau des Mollusques terrestrcs et fluviaiiles du 

 Pleistocene de la Ligurie occidentale et du Departement des Alpes-Maritimes, Journ. 

 de Conchyl., vol. 57, p. 317, 1909. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



The smallest specimens I have seen come from Spain or from the 

 Moorish range, and have not over 12 mm. diameter and 8 mm. 

 height. 



Helicogena nicoeensis (Fer.) Risso (61, figs. 19, 20). Ferussac 

 described a Helix under this name in 1822, from Nicaea, Greece, 

 near Mount Olympus. His use of the form niciensis for the shell 

 from southern France was later. The former was regarded by 

 Pfeiffer as a variety of Helix desertorum, which is perhaps the reason 

 why no one has proposed a new name for the French shell. 



Helicogena libellula Risso (62, f. 21). This is the yellow 

 mutation of H. nemoralis without bands. 



Helicogena imperfecta Risso (62). A j'-ellow variety of H. 

 nemoralis with the bands indicated by rows of imperfectly connected 

 brown spots or flecks. 



Helicogena olivacea Risso (63). Bourguignat considers that 

 Mortillet erred in regarding H. olivacea as a variety of H. nemoralis. 

 He considers it to be the H. sylvatica of Draparnaud. In this I 

 agree with him, although H. sylvatica lives only in Italy on the con- 

 fines of the Department, near the Col de Tende. 



Helix aspersa (L.) Risso (63). Very common. 



Helix vermiculata (L.) Risso (63). Very common. 



Helix rugulosa Risso (64). This species is really H. vermiculata 

 variety concolor Cristofori and Jan. Bom-guignat referred it to H. 

 lactea, which does not occm- in the region under consideration. Can- 

 traine regarded it erroneously as a synonym of H. muralis Miiller, 

 which also does not inhabit the Department. 



Cantareus naticoides (Drap.) Risso (64). This is the Helix 

 aperta Born, very common at Nice. , 



Helicodonta obvoluta (L.) Risso (65). Helix ohvoluta Miiller. 

 Common. 



Helicigona lapicida (L.) Risso (66). This species seems to be 

 confined to the mountainous part of the right bank of the River Var. 



Helicigona cornea (L.) Risso (66). This is only found in the 

 Departement du Var, localized at Moissac and, according to Beren- 

 guies, rarely. A variety of it is found in the Alpes-Maritimes. 



Hygromia cinctella (Drap.) Risso (67). This is correctly identi- 

 fied by Risso. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Hygromia folliculata Risso (67). This is correctly identified 

 by Mortillet and Bourguignat with Helix ciliata Venetz. It is found 

 in the environs of Nice, locahzed to the north of St. Andre. 



Helicella algira (L.) Risso (68). This is very common in the 

 Alpes-Mari times below 1500 meters altitude and in the Var below 

 900 meters. It never exceeds 45 mm. in diameter. 



Helicella albella (L.) Risso (68). The H. albella Draparnaud 

 is identified with the Helix explanata Miiller. It is now found only 

 on the right bank of the Var, very rarely, and seems to be on the 

 way to extinction. I have not found it in the quaternary beds of 

 the region. 



Helicella conica (Drap.) Risso (68). This is really Helix cornea 

 Draparnaud, broken and bleached by the loss of its epidermis. It 

 was referred to H. variahilis by Mortillet, and to H. lineata Olivi, 

 by Bourguignat. I have shown elsewhere that the latter species 

 does not exist in France. 



Helicella elegans (Drap.) Risso (69). Very common in the 

 lowlands near the sea. Risso's specimens belong to Helix scitula 

 Cristofori and Jan.*^ Bourguignat considered this species as a syn- 

 onym of Helix terrestris Pennant, but according to St. Simon, ter- 

 restris and elegans are distinct species. 



Helicella rupestris (Drap.) Risso (69). I have not found this 

 species near Nice, but it occurs on the Italian frontier on the banks 

 of the Roya, and also at the entrance to the gorges of the Cians. 



Helicella radiatus (L.) Risso (69). I have seen on his carton 

 only a slightly flattened variety of Helix rotundata Miiller. Bour- 

 guignat however regarded the species as a somewhat elevated variety 

 of Helix apicina Lamarck. 



Helicella solarium Risso (70). This is really Helix elegans 

 Draparnaud, already referred to. 



Helicella mamillata Risso (70). This is as remarked by Bour- 

 guignat, the Helix lapicida Linne, which is now confined to the right 

 bank of the Var, but which I have found fossil in the quaternary 

 deposits of Cape Martin near Mentone. 



Helicella varians Risso (70). On the carton labelled varians I 

 find two H. ciliata Venetz, and a very young Helix rotundata 



" Cf. Caziot, Bull. Soc. Zool. de France, XXXIII, No. 10, 1908. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



M tiller. It is curious that Bourguignat should have considered 

 them as young whitish specimens of H. cespitum M tiller. The latter 

 is however common near Nice and in the quaternary deposits of the 

 region. 



Helicella ericetorum (L.) Risso (71). Risso's specimens rep- 

 resent, not the H. cespitum as claimed by Bourguignat, but H. man- 

 tinica Mabille of the group Cespitana, a rather rare species in the 

 Alpes-Maritimes. The H. ericetorum does not occur in this region 

 where it is at present replaced by the H. ericitella Jousseaume, which 

 is smaller, less depressed, with a larger umbilicus. 



Helicella variabilis (Drap.) Risso (71). Bourguignat consid- 

 ered that there were two species on Risso's carton, H. variabilis of 

 Draparnaud and H. submaritima of Desmoulins. I have established 

 the truth of the first identification but the second is not correct, it 

 being the H. pilula Locard, which also belongs to the group of variabilis. 



The H. submaritima Desmoulins^ has been sent to me from various 

 places in France, always in the neighborhood of the ocean: Isle de 

 Re, Brest, Honfieur, Royan, etc. It is very distinctly marked by 

 its form and small size, hardly greater than that of H. striata Drapar- 

 naud. It is very distinct from H. maritima and pyramidata and 

 does not occur in the Risso collection. 



Helicella nitida (Drap.) Risso (72). ]\Iortillet wrongly identi- 

 fies this species with the Zonites {Hyalina) nitens ]\Iichaud. For 

 Bourguignat Risso's specimens constitute a new species close to 

 Z. cellarius IVI tiller. The differences are very slight. 



Helicella fasciata Risso (72). Young specimens of Helix ces- 

 pitum Draparnaud. 



Helicella ferruginea Risso (72). This is the Helix lenticula 

 Ferussac, which is found in the neighborhood of Nice. 



Helicella hispida Risso (72). This is the Helix hispida Linne, 

 very common on all the prairies. 



Helicella hispidula Risso (73). This is Helix apidna Lamarck. 



Helicella prevostiana Risso (73). A variety of Helix hispida 

 Linne. 



THEBA (Leach Ms.) Risso (73). Theba pisana (L.) Risso 

 (73). Very common on all the shores. 



7 Suppl. Moll. Gironde, p. 6, 18.51. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Theba pyramidata (Drap.) Risso (74). Risso's specimens belong 

 to the Helix suhpyramidata Caziot. The typical ■pyramidata is local- 

 ized to the north of Villefranche-sur-Mer. 



Theba conspurcata (Drap.) Risso (74). Correct. 



Theba carthusiana (Drap.) Risso (74). Correct. 



Theba carthusianella (Drap.) Risso (75). Bourguignat re- 

 marks that H. carthusiana M tiller (1774) should not be confused with 

 Draparnaud's species of the same name (1805) which, he says, should 

 be referred to H. cantiana Montagu. I regard this as an error. The 

 H. cantiana is a northern species of which the variety 7ninor has a 

 striking analogy with the H. rubella Risso, while the H. carthusianella 

 of Draparnaud is a minor variety of his H. carthusiana. 



Theba cemenelea Risso (75). Two species were placed by Risso 

 in this carton, the second of which is H. carthisiana Miiller. 



Theba rubella Risso (75). The specimens agree well with his 

 description. 



Theba charpentiera Risso (76) . This is a dirty white or yellow- 

 ish ash colored variety of the Helix rubella. 



Theba meridionalis Risso (76). Young specimens of Helix ver- 

 miculata Miiller. 



Theba lucostoma Risso (76). Young examples of Helix pisana 

 Miiller. 



Cochlicella ventrosa (Drap.) Risso (77). This species is syn- 

 onymous with Helix acuta Miiller. 



Cochlicella tenuis Risso (77). Smaller and darker specimens 

 of the last mentioned. 



Cochlicella meridionalis (Drap.) Risso (78, fig. 26). Very 

 large specimens of Helix barbara Linne, which Bourguignat has con- 

 fused with H. acuta. 



Cochlicella turricula (Drap.) Risso (78). These specimens 

 have disappeared from the collection. According to Bourguignat 

 they were smaller banded specimens of H. barbara. 



Bulimulus radiatus (L.) Risso (78). The Buliminus radiaius 

 is found locally, in the northern part of the Department. 



RUMINA Risso (79). Rumina decollata (L.) Risso (79). This 

 is the Bulimus decollaius of Bruguiere. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



CocHLicoPA LUBRicA (L.) Risso (80). The Bulimus lubricus of 

 early writers. 



FERRUSSACIA Risso (80). Ferrussacia gronoviana (Fer.) 

 Risso (80). This has been described and figured by Bourguignat 

 in his ''Etude Synonymique," p. 41, pi. 1, figs. 8, 9, 10. The double 

 "r" in the name is doubtless a misprint. 



Ferrussacia sayea Risso (80). Risso states that this shell is 

 sinistral, but Bourguignat and I have shown that it is dextral and 

 belongs to the genus Ccedlianella. 



ACICULA Risso (81). Acicula eburnea (Miill.) Risso (81). 

 A Ccecilianella which has been described and figured by Bourguignat, 

 p. 43, pi. 1, figs. 20, 21, 22. 



VEDIANTIUS Risso (81). Vediantius eristalius Risso (82, 

 fig. 24). The specimen figured by Risso is an indeterminable Ferus- 

 sacia. 



ORBITINA Risso (82). Orbitina incomparabilis Risso (82> 

 fig. 23), and Orbitina truncatella Risso (82, fig. 25), are founded 

 on immature specimens of Rumina decollata. 



CRENEA Risso (83). Crenea vitrea Risso (83). Founded on 

 immature specimens of an indeterminable species of Ccecilianella. 



SARAPHIA Risso (83). Saraphia uniplicata Risso (83), Sara- 

 PHiA UNiDENTATA Risso (84), Saraphia bidentata Risso (84), and 

 Saraphia pleyfelia Risso (84), have disappeared from the collec- 

 tion. 



Saraphia tridentata Risso (84). This is a species of Carychium 

 which has been figured by Bourguignat (pi. 1, figs. 27, 28), who has 

 given a full description with synonymy. 



Clausilia cinerea (Drap.) Risso (85). This is the Pupa simi'is 

 of Bruguiere. 



Clausilia bidens (L.) Risso (85). This is the Clausilia solida 

 Draparnaud, very common in the district, while the C. bidens of 

 Linne does not occur there. 



Clausilia charlotia Risso (86, fig. 22). This is Pupa variabilis 

 Draparnaud. 



Clausilia crenulata Risso (86). Mortillet has erroneously com- 

 pared this with C. plicaiula Draparnaud, but it is more properly 

 associated with C. rugosa Draparnaud, though distinct. The later 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



C. crenulata Rossmassler (1835) from Dalmatia was renamed by 

 Bourguignat C. thamnophila. The latter author, in his monograph 

 of the Clausihas of France, has however figured C. 'pyrenaica of Char- 

 pentier under the name of crenulata (figs. 11, 12) in which error he 

 has been followed by Locard in his " Mollusques de France^' (p. 287). 

 I have described the varieties of this species in my " Faune des Alpes- 

 Maritimes" 



Clausilia marcelia Risso (86). This has been referred to C. 

 parvula Studer, by Mortillet, to C. 7iigricans Pulteney, by Bourguignat 

 and I prefer the name of C. hidentata Strom, given in 1765,^ while 

 Pulteney's "Dorset Catalogue^' dates only from 1799. 



Clausilia heterostropha Risso (87) and Clausilia macluriana 

 Risso (87), are merely varieties of C. solida Drap. 



Clausilia polita Risso (87, fig. 36). This is a good species. 

 Bourguignat referred it to Pupa ynultidentaia Moquin Tandon (1855), 

 which is identical with Turbo multidentatus Olivi, 1792, but the 

 characters are different and the name polita should be retained. 



PEGEA Risso (88). Pegea carnea Risso (88, fig. 29). This is 

 a Tunisian Ferussacia, given to Risso as coming from the environs 

 of Nice, It probably was brought to the port with grain from 

 Tunis which at that epoch was unloaded at Nice. Bourguignat has 

 redescribed and figured it. 



JAMINIA (Leach Ms.) Risso (88). Jaminia muscorum (Drap.) 

 Risso (88), and Jaminia marginata (Drap.) Risso (89). These 

 two species are the same thing, namely Pupa umbilicata Draparnaud 

 ( = Pupa cylindracea DaCosta). Bourguignat erroneously identi- 

 fies the J. muscorum Risso with Turbo muscorum of Linne and Carl 

 Pfeiffer. 



Jaminia edentula (Drap.) Risso (89). This species exists at 

 present in the northern part of the Department. It is a Bulmiinus. 



Jaminia secale (Drap.) Risso (89). This is Pupa secale Drapar- 

 naud. 



Jaminia tridens (L.) Risso (90). This is Helix tridens of IVIuller. 



Jaminia granum (Drap.) Risso (90). Pupa granum Draparnaud. 



Jaminia sulculata Risso (90). A broken and unidentifiable spe- 

 cies of Pupidce. 



* Trondhjems Skrift., Ill, p. 376, pi. 6, fig. 7. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



Jaminia trilamillata Risso (91). No longer exists in the col- 

 lection. 



Jaminia heterostropha Risso (91, fig. 31). From the figure and 

 description this is certainly the Bulimus quadridens of Bruguiere, 

 but the specimens in the collection now bearing the label of /. hetero- 

 stropha are Pupa lunalica of Jan. 



Jaminia quinque lamellata Risso (91). This is Pupa {Torquilla) 

 similis of Bruguiere. 



Jaminia septem dentata Risso (91). Pupa avenacea Bruguiere. 



Jaminia heptodonta Risso (92). Not now to be found in the 

 collection. 



Jaminia multi dentata Risso (92). I have determined this to 

 be identical with Clausilia polita Risso, ( - Pupa polita). 



Jaminia niso Risso (92). A variety of Pupa quadridens Mliller. 



Auricula myosotis (Drap.) Risso (93). Alexia myosotis Morch. 



Pyramidella gracilis (Brocchi) Risso (93), and Pyramidella 

 CARiNATA Risso (94). Thesc two fossil species I leave without 

 comment. 



Ancylus lacustris (Miill.) Risso (94). The Ancylus which is 

 actually in the collection is the A. gibbosus Bourguignat, common 

 at Nice. But Risso's description does not accord with the speci- 

 mens of the carton labelled lactistris. Bourguignat has fully dis- 

 cussed the case in his synonymical study and figured the shell. 



Lymnea pereger (Miiller) Risso (95). Correct. 



Lymnea auricula Risso (95). Lvmnceus vulgaris Carl Pfeiffer. 



L^TMNEA minuta (Drap.) Risso (95). The carton contains a 

 mixture of L. truncatula and young L. palustris Miiller. 



Lymnea leachiana Risso (95, fig. 32). Lymncea palustris Miiller. 



Lymnea labrosa Risso (96). The shell described by Risso is 

 apparently no longer in the collection. The carton is occupied by 

 Physa fontinalis, which is not a native of the Department and does 

 not agree with Risso's description. 



Phyza fontinalis (L.) Risso (96). This is Physa suhopaca La- 

 marck, which is no longer found in the Department. 



Phyza hypnorum (L.) Risso (96). This species is rare in the 

 Department. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Planorbis marginatus (Miill.) Risso (97). This is Planorbis 

 suhmarginatus Cristofori and Jan. and, according to Bourguignat, 

 Helix compla7iaia Linne (var. B.). 



Planorbis carinatus (Miill.) Risso (97). Correct. 



Planorbis spirorbis (L.) Risso (97). Very poor specimens which 

 might be P. spirorbis Linne, or P. albus Miiller. 



Planorbis vortex (Miill.) Risso (98). Correct according to 

 Mortillet, but the shell has now disappeared from the collection. 



Planorbis nitidus (Miill.) Risso (98). The specimens in the 

 collection belong to two species, P. rotundatus Poiret, and P. vortex 

 Miiller. I have not found P. nitidus in the Alpes-Maritimes. 



Planorbis cristatus (Drap.) Risso (98). Correct. 



Planorbis reticulatus Risso (98). No longer in the collection. 

 Moquin Tandon confuses it with P. aMis Miiller, but it is not prob- 

 able that he was able to examine the type before its disappearance. 

 Risso queries its relation to that species. 



BITHYNIA Risso (100). This name was spelled Bithinia by 

 Gray in 1821 when he applied it to an undescribed new species (B. 

 ventrosa), but in 1824^ he states that Helix tentaculaia is the type 

 and names Prideaux as the author of the genus. It is very probable 

 that the English naturalist, Dr. Leach, communicated the name to 

 Risso when he came to pass the season at Nice in 1820. Many 

 authors write Bythinia, deriving the name from the Greek word 

 signifjdng ''those who live at the bottom of the water." 



BiTHYNiA JACULATOR (Miill.) Risso (100). This is the Helix 

 tentaculata Gmelin, very common in the Department. 



BiTHYNiA MERiDiONALis Risso (100, fig. 28). Avmicola similis 

 (Drap.). 



Valvata PLANORBIS (Drap.) Risso (101). Bourguignat notes three 

 species in this carton, V. piscinalis Ferussac pere, V. spirorbis Drapar- 

 naud, and a species near V. cristata Miiller. The latter has never 

 been announced from the Alpes-Maritimes. 



Valvata minuta (Drap.) Risso (101). Extremely young speci- 

 mens of Bithinia tentaculata Linne. 



s Phil. Mag. & Journ., Ixiii, 1824, p. 277. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



VALLONIA Risso (101). If the circulation of Leach's proof 

 sheets between 1820 and 1823 constituted publication, his name 

 Zurama would take precedence of VaUonia, but this view has not 

 generally been accepted and is not in accordance with the inter- 

 national rules for nomenclature. There seems to be no doubt, how- 

 ever, that the proof sheets were communicated to several of Leach's 

 correspondents and some of his names thus came into use before 

 the effectual publication of his manuscript by Gray in 1852. 



Vallonia ROSALIA Risso (102, fig. 30). Under this name Risso 

 included, as did many other naturalists before and later. Helix pul- 

 chella and H. costata of Miiller, which are now accepted as distinct 

 species. 



LEACHIA Risso (102), The name Leachia had already been 

 applied to a cephalopod by Lesueur in 1821. 



Leachia viridescens Risso (102, fig. 35), Leachia cornea Risso 

 (102, fig. 33), Leachia vitrea Risso (103), and Leachia lineolata 

 Risso (103). These four species are very puzzling. Bourguignat 

 was uncertain, and only gave a decided opinion in regard to L. lineo- 

 lata which he regarded as the Cyclosto7na patuhmi of Draparnaud 

 (var. A) a species of Pomatias. Gustave Dollfus believed that Risso 

 had in hand the Hydrohia acuta (Draparnaud), and that the first 

 two of his species should be united, difi'ering only in color. The 

 third species, as Locard has admitted, may be the Belgrandia vitrea 

 (Draparnaud). I think after an examination of these little shells 

 that Dollfus is right. 



Cyclostoma elegans (L.) Risso (103), Correct. 



Cyclostoma affinis Risso (104). Risso's carton carries both C. 

 elegans and C. sulcatum Draparnaud. I have only found this spe- 

 cies, living, on the right bank of the Var between Mougins and Anti- 

 bes, but apparently on the road to extinction. It occurs fossil in 

 the quaternary deposits of the region. 



Cyclostoma obtusum (Drap.) Risso (104). Very young speci- 

 mens of Cyclostoma sulcatum Draparnaud. 



Cyclas vitrea Risso (338). This is Pisiclium casertanum Poll, 

 according to Bourguignat. 



Cyclas amnica (L.) Risso (338). Pisidium amnicum of authors. 



Having passed in review all of Risso's fresh-water and terrestrial 

 species, it should be clearly understood that he had made known 

 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



only a small portion of the fauna of the Department, which is cer- 

 tainly one of the richest and most interesting in France, giving asylum 

 on the plains and lowlands near the coast to mollusks requiring a 

 warm habitat; while on the mountains and the high ranges species 

 peculiar to cold and very cold regions find a congenial home. 




1919] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



DIPTEROLOGICAL NOTES AND DESCRIPTIONS. 



BY EZRA T. CRESSON, JR. 



This paper is a collection of notes on, and descriptions of, North 

 American Diptera, made at various times while working over mater- 

 ial sent to the writer for determination. It may here be explained 

 that the data within brackets, [ ], refer to the owners of the material 



in question. 



STRATIOMYID^, 



Zabrachia magnicornis new species. 



Similar to polita, but differing in having the frons more curving, 

 without the median longitudinal sulcus; the antennae are much 

 larger, the scutellum more strongly developed, and the legs darker. 

 9 . Black; antennae brownish, appearing hghter from the dense, 

 appressed, pubescense or minute granulations. Halteres white with 

 stalk fuscous. Apex of femora, entire middle and hind tibise, tawny; 

 apex of fore tibise, and tarsi, darker; middle and hind tarsi yellow. 

 Wings hyaline. All pile white and appressed, sometimes appearing 

 silvery. 0\ipositor yellow. Frons not sulcate medianly, convex 

 and distinctly protruding above. Antennae typical but large, situ- 

 ated in the depressed portion of the face and lower frons; third joint 

 nearly as broad as the frons, twice as broad as long; arista straight, 

 two and a half times as long as third. Scutellum strongly convex 

 and subtuberculate above. Stigma hardly twice as long as broad; 

 discal and posterior veins colorless. Length, 3.5 mm. 



Type. — 9 ; Alamogordo, New Mexico, June 6, 1902, (Viereck & 

 Rehn), [A. N. S. P. No. 9192]. 



A male (2 mm. long) from the same locality may belong here, but 

 in general appearance it seems as though it should be associated with 

 polita. However, in the short stigma and third vein it suggests the 

 present species. In this male the head is nearly round in profile. 

 Antennae dark tawny. All pile erect and white, otherwise similar 

 to polita. Apices of all femora all tibiae and tarsi, yellow. 



A small female (head wanting) seems to agree with this male in 

 all respects as to color. 



EUPARHYPHUS Gerst. 



The furcation of the third vein is apparently of no specific value; 

 a female of tetraspilus from Aweme, Manitoba, Canada (E. Criddle, 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



June), has the furcation in one wing but not in the other. Perhaps 

 hellus Loew is only a synonym of tetraspilus Loew. The extent 

 of yellow, or even the presence or absence of such, on the scutellum 

 is a variable character. 



Euparyphus quadrimaculatus new species. 



I cannot remark on the relationship of this species on account of 

 the lack of material in this genus. It runs, in Adams's table {Kans. 

 Univ. Quart., ii, 28), to crucigerus Coq., or atriventris Coq., but the 

 abdominal markings are different. 



9 . Eyes bare. Head yellow, with occiput except orbits, ocellar 

 transverse band, an orbital spot and a fine dash above antennae on 

 frons, and antennae, black. Two brown facial stripes covered by 

 the broad silver along orbits. Cheeks and lower post, orbits silvery. 

 Mesonotum black, with yellow as follows: Two median irregular or 

 interrupted stripes, originating from spot above hmneri, but not 

 attaining posterior margin; broad lateral margins including upper 

 half of pleura, but interrupted above base of wings. Scutellum and 

 spines, and halteres also yellow. All pile short and white. Dorsum 

 of abdomen black; lateral margins, a large lateral spot confluent 

 with margin on third segment, and smaller, similar spots on apical 

 margin of fourth, entire fifth, and venter, yellow. Legs yellow, with 

 fore tarsi, hind tibiae above, four apical joints of middle and hind 

 tarsi, black; base of middle and of hind tarsi white. Wings hyaline 

 with veins and stigma yellow. Mostly micro-granulose. Frons wnth 

 parallel orbits. Face not prominent at antennae. Antenn* not 

 longer than head, with first and second joints subequal. Scutellum 

 short, two or three times as broad as long. Third vein short, not 

 furcate; costal distance between stigma and third not longer than 

 stigma, and hardly longer than discal cell ; four posterior veins faintly 

 distinct, the last arising near base of discal cell. Length, 4 mm. 



Type. — 9 ; Alamogordo, New Mexico, June 6, 1902, (Viereck & 

 Rehn), [A. N. S. P. No. 6202]. 



A male from Santa Clara County, California, June, (W. M. Giffard, 

 No. 7), [Cal. Ac. Sci.], is similar but the upper pleural band is nar- 

 rower. 



AOCHLETUS O. S. 



The discover}^ of two species evidently belonging to this genus, 

 but having the eyes pilose, necessitates including other characters, or 

 establishing the genus upon other than those used heretofore, es- 

 pecially in Williston's "Manual." Osten Sacken ("Biologia," i, 38) 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



was correct in recognizing the antennae as holding the most important 

 characters in this genus. Three species have been placed in the 

 genus of which I have seen but one, although all seem to agree in 

 the general form of the antennse and in having the eyes bare. Both 

 cinctus O. S, and histriatus Will., are more or less yellow vittate on 

 mesonotum. The former having the face and frons also yellow, 

 while ohscurus Coq. has the mesonotum entirely black and no yellow 

 on the entire body, although somewhat fuscous beneath the an- 

 tennae. Ohscurus also differs from the others in having two polished 

 gibbous calli above the antennse; the scutellar spines are short, 

 closely approximate with tips curving up. The two species described 

 below differ from all in having the eyes pilose. 



The antennae in this genus, typically, have the first and second 

 joints short, subequal, about as long as broad, or somewhat longer; 

 the third composing of six to eight closely united segments, of which 

 the first three or four are as stout or stouter than the second joint, 

 each about as broad as long, the last tapering to the slender apical 

 segments which seem to vary in length with the different species, 

 and are tipped with one or more minute hairs. 



Aochletus albopilosus new species. 



This and the following species are apparently allied to ohscurus 

 Coq., but there are no calli on the frons and the scutellum is broader 

 with well separated spines. 



cf . Black; margin of abdomen, knees, and bases of tarsi bro^Ti. 

 Halteres white. Eyes black pilose. Pile of ocellar tubercle black, 

 of face black and white, erect. Frontal triangle, facial orbits and 

 post, orbits with appressed white pile. Thorax and scutellum with 

 erect white pile, and appressed silvery white tomen, which on meso- 

 notum leaves three longitudinal bare stripes appearing black. Abdo- 

 men with sparse erect pile and tomen as on the mesonotum, leaving 

 the bases of segments bare and black; venter likewise clothed. Legs 

 sparsely white pilose. Head broader than high, and slightly higher 

 than long. Eyes contiguous for nearly full length of frons from the 

 prominent ocellar tubercle; line of demarcation of facets distinct 

 and opposite antennse. Face short, broad, convex, but not promi- 

 nent. Antennae situated slightly below middle of profile, as long 

 as head; third joint more than twice as long as first two together, of 

 about six segments. Thorax robust, slightly longer than broad. 

 Scutellum broader than long, broadly truncate, with two long well 

 separated spines. Abdomen round; lateral margins sharp and thin. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Legs slender, normal. Third vein furcate near tip; four posterior 

 veins of which the last arises at base of discal cell. Discal cell as 

 long as stigma. Length, 8 mm. 



Type.— d"; Alamogordo, New Mexico, May 13, 1902, (Viereck & 

 Rehn), [A. N. S. P. No. 6193]. 



Aochletus nigropilosus new species. 



Similar to albopilosus, but all erect pile black except a little on the 

 face. Antennae shorter and stouter, and the scutellum broader 

 with the spines more broadly separated. Length, 9 mm. 



Type. — cf ; Sonoma County, California, July, [A. N. S. P. No. 

 6194]. 



Neorondania scutellata new species. 



cf . Black, slightly steel blue, shining; frontal triangle, first, sec- 

 ond, and base of third antennal joints, scutellum and spines, apices 

 of femora, yellow or tawny. Halteres and bases of tarsi, white. 

 Eyes black pilose. All erect pile black except on occiput and lateral 

 tufts on second abdominal segment. Otherwise marked with ap- 

 pressed white pile as follows: Face, especially the orbits, three 

 mesonotal vittae interrupted at suture, supra-alar dash, posterior 

 mesonotal margin, notopleural spot, pleura, lateral transverse spot 

 on abdominal segments three and four, larger lateral spot on fifth, 

 venter and more or less of femora and tibiae. Eyes (moistened) with 

 three horizontal purple lines. Head hemispherical. Eyes contigu- 

 ous. Face convex above, depressed below. Antennae as long as 

 head; first joint twice as long as second; third quadrate, three and 

 a half times as long as first and second together. Scutellar spines 

 as long as scutellum, of light color and long black pilose. Abdomen 

 broadly rounded, minutely granulose discally, with distinct impressed 

 sutures. Legs slender, but hind femora somewhat flattened and 

 enlarged beyond middle. Wings brownish hyaline; stigma and cross 

 veins below, faintly fuscus. Length, 8-10 mm. 



9 . Similar, but eyes bare. Head entirely tawny; frons as wide 

 as length of first and second antennal joints together. No erect 

 black pile, but design of appressed white pile as in male. 



Type.—d^; Costa Rica, (W. M. Gabb), [A. N. S. P. No. 6195]. 

 Paratypes. — 4 9 ; topotypical. 



Actina canadensis new species. 



This species is readily distinguished from viridis Say by the low 

 situated antennae, which is also shorter and more robust than in that 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



species. It is further characterized by the dark scutellar spines 

 and the longer stigma. The latter in viridis is but little longer than 

 the discal cell and but half again longer than broad. 



9 . Similar to viridis Say. Frons shining, black with slight green- 

 ish tinge, sparingly short white pilose. Face more shining, black 

 with long white pile. Palpi black. Antennae situated below middle 

 of profile, so that the frons is t^vdce as long as the face, black with 

 basal annulus of third joint brownish and distinctly swollen. Thorax 

 and scutellum shining metallic green, becoming black below, sparingly 

 yellow pilose; spines of the latter also metallic colored. Abdomen 

 shining black. Legs yellow, but fore coxae and four apical joints of 

 tarsi black. Wings brownish, veins darker; stigma about twice as 

 long as discal cell, and twice as long as broad. Length, 6 mm. 



Type.— 9 ; Aweme, Manitoba, Canada, July 24, 1911, (E. Griddle), 

 [A. N. S. P. No. 6196]. 



TABANIDiE. 

 Sllvius jonesi new species. 



In general appearance this interesting species does not suggest 

 any affinity with gigantulus Loew, but more critical examination 

 makes it reasonably certain that it belongs to a group including that 

 species and is very distinct from any yet described, to my loiowledge. 

 It is much larger than that species and the abdomen has black or 

 dark bases to all segments. The tibial and antennal characters 

 certainly place this species in Silvius, although in general appearance 

 it suggests some of those in Pangonia. The eyes are uniformally 

 green when moistened. 



cf . Black; antennae except four black terminal annuli of third 

 joint, palpi, abdomen except dark bases of dorsal and ventral seg- 

 ments especially towards apex of abdomen, femora except bases, 

 bases of tibiae, tawny or brown. Halteres pale. Wings blackish, 

 more intense along costa. Subopaque. Yellow pruinose above, 

 becoming gray below. All pile on head and thorax yellow and 

 rather abundant, also on the narrow apices of abdominal segments; 

 the broad bases of the segments with appressed black pile, similar 

 on venter. Femora with pale pile which on the tibiae becomes 

 darker. Pile on first antennal joint and base of palpi, yellow; on 

 second, and apices of palpi, black. No mesonotal vittae. No denuded 

 areas on face. Proboscis not longer than head, and palpi is slightly 

 more than half as long as proboscis. First antennal joint twice as 

 long as second; third twice as long as first and second together; the 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



thickened basal annulus nearly broad as long, the following annuli 

 together as long as the basal one. Neuration as in gigantulus. 

 Length, 17 mm. 



9 • Similar but frons twice as broad as width of antennae, entirely 

 pruinose. IMesonotum more grayish. 



Type. — ^cf; Keddie, Plmnas County, California, July 6, 1918, 

 (F. M. Jones), [A. N. S. P. No. 6197]. Paraty-pe.—l 9 ; topotypical. 



LEPTIDAE. 

 Arthropeas jonesi new species. 



Differs from americana Lw., and magna Johns., the other known 

 species, in having the legs entirely black. In build resembling magna, 

 with a median globose swelling on the face similar to that in 

 Chrysopila and nearly visible in profile. Jonesi probably represents 

 a distinct genus or subgenus. 



cf. Black; antennae, palpi, and hal teres pale, also a small spot on 

 humeri. All pile black and rather long and abundant, including 

 the cilia of the white squamae. Face, and sparingly on mesonotum, 

 grayish pruinose. Wings blackish, becoming more intense along 

 costa. Thorax and abdomen, shining. First and second antennal 

 joints short, subglobose; third, three to four times as long as first 

 two together, and broader than second, gradually tapering to a 

 minutely truncated apex, bearing a few hairs, not a terminal style, 

 composed of eight annuli, of which the basal and apical ones are 

 longer and subequal. Fore tibiae with one small apical spur, middle 

 and hind ones with two each. Length, 13 mm. 



Type. — cf; Keddie, Plumas County, California, June 6, 1918, 

 (F. M. Jones), [A. N. S. P. No. 6198]. 



Chrysopilus nudus new species. 



This species suggests flavibarhis Adams, but the mesonotum of 

 the female is not velvety and the pile and tomen are not yellow. 



cf . Black; stalk of halteres, tibiae and bases of tarsi, pale. Wings 

 slightly brownish. Opaque, grayish. Mesonotum dorsum, broad 

 bases of abdominal segments, brownish. All pile and tomen sparse 

 and white. Antennae bare. Eyes narrowly separated. First an- 

 tennal joint shorter than second. Palpi long, falciform, white pilose. 

 Branch of third vein originating opposite end of first vein. Length, 

 5 mm. 



9 . Similar, but stouter. Frons broad and brownish medianly. 

 Mesonotum with a broad median stripe and two large sublateral 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



spots brown. Hind femora sometimes pale. Branch of third vein 

 originating before tip of first; anal cell closed before margin. 



Type—d"; San Jacinto, California, May 29, 1917, (E. P. Van 

 Duzee), [Cal. Acad. Sci.]. Paratypes.—l(S^, 2 9 ; topotypical. 



Chrysopilus dilatus new species. 



Differing from all known species by the enlarged first antenna! 

 joint. Thus suggesting Symphoromyia but the arista is terminal 

 and the anal cell is closed. 



cf . Black; stalk of halteres, knees, tibiae and bases of tarsi, paler. 

 Opaque. Blackish brown, with face, pleura below, and venter more 

 grayish. Erect pile of ocellar tubercle, face, palpi, antennae, meso- 

 notum, scutellum, sternopleura, fore coxae, and femora, black; of 

 occiput, pteropleura, and abdomen, pale. Sparse tomen on meso- 

 notum, abdomen and femora, pale yellow or whitish. Wings hyaline; 

 stigma brown. Eyes narrowly separated or contiguous. First an- 

 tennal joint much enlarged, twice as long as second and third to- 

 gether, nearly as broad as long, with dense, long pilosity. Palpi 

 long, falciform, densely long pilose. Anterior branch of third vein 

 originating before tip of first vein. Anal cell closed before margin. 

 Length, 6 mm. 



Type. — cf ; Berkeley Hills, Alameda County, California, April 11, 

 1908, (E. T. Cresson, Jr.), [A. N. S. P. No. 6199]. Paratypes.—2d^; 

 topotypical. 



BOMBYLIID^. 



Exoprosopa fumosa new species. 



This species suggests some of those belonging to Poeciloanthrax. 

 It belongs to the group, in this genus, having the second abdominal 

 segment black tomentose. The wings are fumose ^vith the cells in 

 the inferior part of the ^vings sub-hyaline. 



9 . Black ; oral margin and scutellum, paler. Knob of halteres 

 whitish. Pile black on: head, disk of mesonotum, scutellum, pectus, 

 apex of abdomen. Yellow on: collar, lateral mesonotal margins, 

 meso- and meta-pleura, lateral margins of abdominal segments 1-5. 

 Tomen all yellow except dorsum of second abdominal and bases of 

 third to fifth segments. All bristles black. Wings uniformly brown 

 except subhyaline areas in: apex of marginal, apex of first sub- 

 marginal, second and third submarginals, discal, second to fourth 

 posteriors, anal, and axillary. (In other words, the veins traversing 

 the subhyaline inferior portion of the wings are broadly clouded 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



with brown.) Style one half as long as third antennal joint. Face 

 conical; epistoma narro\V, pilose. Proboscis not protruding. Fore 

 tibiae slender, bare; hind femora slender, with long bristles. First 

 posterior cell open. Length, 9 mm. Wings, root to tip, 18 mm. 



Type. — 9 ; Nogales, Sonoma, Mexico, August 12, 1906, (P. P. 

 Calvert), [A. N. S. P. No. 6200]. 



Exoprosopa jonesi new species. 



Allied to doris 0. S., but the antennae are entirely black, and the 

 second band of the wdngs is more extensively developed towards 

 the margin. In the paratype this band broadly attains the margin. 

 The yellow tomentose design of the abdomen suggests grata Coq. 



9 . Black; lower frons, face, scutellum, lateral abdominal mar- 

 gins, venter, femora, tibiae, bases of tarsi, tawny. Club of halteres 

 pale. Wings with bases of first and second basals, anal, and axillary 

 cells, hyaline. Bases of first submarginal, first posterior, discal, 

 third and fourth posteriors, and more or less of apices of anal and 

 axillary cells, infuscated. Second band of infuscation includes base 

 of second posterior nearly to margin along the veins. Base of third 

 submarginal also infuscated, but apex of marginal is hyaline. Pile 

 black on: frons, face in part, first and second antennal joints, meso- 

 notum; lateral margins of second and following abdominals slightly 

 mixed with black, pale. Pile pale on face in part, collar, mesonotum 

 laterally, pleura, coxae, lateral margins of first abdominal segment 

 and venter. Tufts of white pile above and below roots of wings. 

 All tomen yellow except silvery along orbits, and black on some parts 

 of pleura and on apices of second to fifth abdominal segments; also 

 medially almost to bases of third to fifth segments, becoming stronger 

 on base of fifth. No white tomen on abdomen except some on 

 venter, but that on the second segment is slightly paler than on the 

 other segments. Tomen on legs yellow. Second antennal joint 

 twice as long as first; third as long as first two together, long, conical; 

 style rather thick and slightly flattened, a fourth to a third as long 

 as third joint. First posterior cell open. Tooth of claws small. 

 Length, 12 mm. 



Type. — 9 ; Keddie, Plumas County, California, July 3, 1918, 

 (F. M. Jones), [A. N. S. P. No. 6214]. Paratype.— I 9 ; topotypical. 



These specimens were captured hovering over nests of a species of 

 Bemhex. 



Exoprosopa (Exoptata) ingens new species. 



Similar to but much larger than divisa Coq. The pile of the 

 mesopleura is mostly black as is also the tuft beneath the wings. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



The legs are entirely black. The wing pattern is more extensively 

 developed, and the cross veins not noticeably subhyaHne. 



9 . Black; frons and face, first and second antennal joints (tliird 

 wanting), scutellum, second and third abdominal segments laterally, 

 bases of ventral segments, tawny to rufous. Knob of halteres pale. 

 Wings brown or grayish brown, hyaline as follows: apex of marginal 

 cell to base of second submarginal, apex of first submarginal, entire 

 second and third submarginal, apices of first to fourth posteriors, 

 and large median area in discal. Somewhat subhyaline areas on the 

 cross-veins. Opaque. Pile black on: frons, face, first and second 

 antennal joints, mesonotum, humeri, notopleura, mesopleura below, 

 pteropleura, lateral margins of second and following segments, apex 

 of abdomen, fourth and following ventrals, and all coxae. All bristles 

 black. Pile yellow on: collar, upper mesopleura, lateral margins 

 of mesopleura, scutellum laterally, propleura, sternopleura, and 

 lateral margin of first segment. Pile white on roots of wings, and 

 second and third abdominal segments. Tomen mostly yellow, but 

 black on: legs, broad apex of second abdominal, narrow apex of 

 third, all of fourth and fifth except basal angles, medianly on sixth 

 and seventh, and fourth and following ventrals. Narrow base of 

 second abdominal, yellow; broad base of, third especially laterally, 

 whitish; second and third ventrals white. Posterior orbits whitish. 



Structurally same as divisa (by comparison with my specimens 

 of that species) but more robust. Length, 20 mm. 



Tijpe. — 9 ; Florence, Aiizona, (C. F. Biedermann), [A. N. S. P. 

 No. 6201]. Paratype. — 1 9 ; topotypical. 



Anastoechus barbatus. 



1877. Osten Sacken, Bui. U. S. Geol. Surv., in, 252. 



The species of this genus are easily separated from those of Sys- 

 toechus by the thick, facial pile. Material before me consisting 

 of 11 cf, 14 9, from Long Island, N. Y,, North Carolina, Texas, 

 Colorado, and New Mexico, fall into two groups. One having the 

 knob of halteres pale yellow, the other with the knobs black or 

 brown. There seems to be no corelation of these characters with 

 the difference in locality. The only two from the eastern Atlantic 

 region have the knobs pale; others from Colorado and Texas have the 

 same. 



A male from Europe, determined as nitidulus Fab., has a dis- 

 tinct, dorsal median line of dense white tomen on the abdomen 

 which is not present in any of the other males before me from the 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



above cited localities. As this character may be typical of nitidulus, 

 we had better adhere to Osten Sacken's name for our form. 



Spogostylum vierecki new species. 



Similar to vandykei Coquillett. Pile of face black, but a few pale 

 hairs near oral margin, margins of mesonotum, and pleura mostly 

 black. Thorax, scutellum, and abdomen with yellowish white tomen. 

 The wings also differ from each other in their maculation. 



cf . Black; tibiae, bases of tarsi, knob of halteres, lateral margins 

 of abdomen, part of venter, and genitalia, tawny. Wings hyaline; 

 basad of humeral cubital vein, middle spot in first basal, veins at 

 bases of first, second and third submarginals, first and fourth pos- 

 teriors, broadly clouded. Costa to tip grayish. Opaque; mesonotum 

 slightly shining. Pile of head black, with slight mixture of pale 

 along oral margin. Collar and pleural pile pale. Some stiff black 

 hairs or bristles along margins of mesonotum, of scutellum, and on 

 pleura at roots of wings. Pile of lateral margins of first abdominal 

 segment white, of remainder of abdomen, black. Legs with black 

 bristles. Tomen pale yellow on : head, thorax, scutellum, and legs. 

 On second and following abdominal segments, nearly white, and 

 dense. Three or four spots of black tomen on apical margins of 

 second to fourth segments. Structurallj'' normal of Argyramoeba, 

 with veins connecting second and anterior branch of third veins; 

 fifth vein between discal and third posterior cells withan angulation, 

 sometimes with a small stump into latter cell. Length, 6-9 mm. 



9 . Similar, but the tomen of abdomen is mostly yellow with the 

 series of black spots more pronounced on other segments. 



Type. — d^; Alamogordo, New Mexico, April 25, 1902, (Viereck & 

 Rehn), [A. N. S. P. No. 6203]. Parahjpes.—dd", 6 9 ; topotypical, 

 7cf , 1 9 ; El Paso, Texas, April 4-5, 1902, (Viereck & Rehn). 



ANISOTAMIA Macq. 



1840. Macquart, Dipt. Ex6t., ii, (1), 81. 



Some confusion exists regarding the validity of this and Ogccdocera 

 Macq. (1840). There is general agreement that the two may be 

 synonymous, and for the present they had better be considered so. 

 Becker 1 tries to separate them, but apparently, judging from an 

 examination of his descriptions and table, he did not know either 

 material or literature regarding these genera. Anistomia has priority 



1 1913. An. Mus. Zool. Ac. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb. xvii, 421-502. 1912. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



of two pages over Ogcodocera ( = Oncodocera 0. S., 1878) and so 

 must be used for our species. Further study of material from all 

 countries will probably result in a different nomenclature for our 

 forms. North America has Mulio leucoproda Wied. (1828), Anthrax 

 valida Wied. (1830), and Amsoiomia fasciata Will. (1901), now 

 credited to this genus. 



Genotype. — Anisotamia ruficornis Macq. (1840). [Coq. 1910]. 



EPACMUS O. S. 



I should keep this genus separated, at least subgenerically, from 

 Aphoebantus on account of the projecting face. 



Epacmus modestias Loew? 



1872. Leptochilus viodestiLS Loew, Berl. Ent. Zeit., xvi, 77. (Cent, x, 40.) 



A female from Alamogordo, New Mexico, May, (Viereck), ap- 

 parently belongs to this species, but the bristles of the hind margin 

 of mesonotum (not of postalar calli), and scutellum are black. Lower 

 part of face is polished. Pile and tomen of occiput, pleura and 

 venter, white; of mesonotum and scutellum, yellow. Scutellmii not 

 noticeably emarginated. Length, 8 mm. 



Epacmus pallid us new species. 



Similar to modestus, according to description, in having the eyes 

 contiguous, but differs in having the palpi pale and lacking the 

 black bristles or tomen on the abdomen. 



cf. Black; oral margin, palpi, halteres, part of genitalia, tibiae, 

 bases of tarsi, pale tawny. Wings clear, veins yellow. Opaque, 

 with two polished swellings on apex of scutellum. All bristles pale. 

 Pile except on ocellar tubercle, and tomen on thorax and abdomen, 

 white or slightly yellowish. A dorsal, median transverse fascia of 

 brown tomen on segments 2-5, not attaining lateral margins (absent 

 in some specimens). Genital segments not tomentose. Eyes 'con- 

 tiguous for about a distance equalling length of ocellar tubercle. 

 Third antennal joint longer than first and second together, grad- 

 ually attenuating to a rather truncate apex which bears a short 

 style. Face projecting beyond second antennal joint. Proboscis 

 projecting equal to length of antennae. Scutellum emarginated. 

 Length, 4-5 mm. 



9 . Similar but pile on frons above dark. Third antennal joint 

 more slender apically. 



Type—d"; El Paso, Texas, April 5, 1902, (Viereck & Rehn), 

 [A. N. S. P. No. 6204]. Paraiypes.—Sd', 1 9 ; topotypical. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



ECLIMUS Loew. 



1844. Loew, Stet. Ent. Zeit., v, 154. 



1877. Epibates Osten Sacken, Bui. U. S. Geol. Surv., in, 268._ 



A large number of species of this genus have been described from 

 our fauna, and it may be inadvisable to add to the list, especially 

 as most of the species described are represented by only one sex. 

 Some of the species seem to be sexually dimorphic, which is more 

 reason why care should be taken in describing new forms. The two 

 species herein described are apparently represented by both sexes. 



Eclimns laniger new species. 



Apparently near funestus 0. S., but no mention is made in the 

 description of that species of the conspicuous golden yellow, 

 appressed, wooly hair of the mesonotum and abdomen which is 

 present in this species. It is also not likely that the present species 

 is conspecific with the eastern funestus. 



cf. Blacl ; squamae, stalk of halteres, pale. Legs hght to dark 

 brown. Wings brownish, becoming more intense along costa beyond 

 anterior cubital vein, and diluting to hyaline basally especially in 

 anal cell. There is a distinct infuscation in submarginal above 

 anterior cubital vein where the wing is slightly wrinkled. Opaque, 

 velvety black. Frons, face slightly, cheeks, occiput below, pleura, 

 white to gray. Pile black on ocellar tubercle, upper occiput, face, 

 first and second antennal joints, mesonotum, pleura above, scutel- 

 lum, and fourth and following abdominals. White on cheeks and 

 occiput below, pleura below, and venter of first to fifth segments. 

 First to third abdominal segments yellowish laterally. Mesonotum, 

 scutellum, abdomen (especially apices of first to fifth segments) sparsely 

 golden yellow lanuginose. All bristles black, also tuft of meta- 

 pleural pile. Head not much broader than high, hemispherical 

 in profile. Eyes contiguous for nearly full distance to antennae. 

 Third antennal joint longer than first and second together. Meso- 

 notum distinctly mucronate, but costa smooth. Length, 7-9 mm. 



9 . Similar, but all pile except on frons white. Infuscation of 

 wings more even except that the stigma, marginal, and first basal 

 cells are more intense, and there is some clouding on the cross 

 veins; second basal, anal, and axillary cells hyaline. 



Type. — cf ; Mesa Grande, Sonoma County, California, June, 1908, 

 (J. P. Baumberger), [A. N. S. P. No. 6205]. Paratypes.—ld', 1 9 ; 

 topotypical. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Eclimus yosemite new species. 



The two specimens representing this species are so different in 

 coloration that, were thej' not taken at the same place and time, one 

 would be certain to consider them distinct species. Of course, it 

 is possible that they are distinct, but it would be inadvisable to 

 consider them as such. The male differs from the description of 

 luciifer 0. S., in that the mesonotum is not mucronate. The female 

 differs from magnus O. S., in that the pile of the mesonotum is white. 



cf. Black; squamse and stalk of halteres, pale. Wings nearly 

 uniformly intense brown, becoming most intense along costa, with 

 slight dilutions basally towards axillary cell, Opaque, velvety 

 black, but oral and scutellar margins shining. All bristles black. 

 Pile black on ocellar tubercle, first and second antennal joints, frons, 

 face, occiput medianly as a continuation of the notopleural stripe, 

 lateral margin of abdomen, all of sixth and following segments, 

 ventral segments, and legs. White on cheeks, occiput below, pleura, 

 metapleural tuft, and squamse. Yellowish on occiput above, meso- 

 notmn, scutellum, dorsum of segments one to five. Some pile on 

 mesonotum laterally; apices of abdominal segments one to five, 

 wooly and somewhat appressed. Head much broader than high, 

 subhemispherical in profile. Eyes separated for about width of 

 first antennal joint. Third antennal longer than first. Mesonotum 

 not mucronate. Costa smooth. Length, 8 mm. 



9 . Similar but larger (12 mm.) and more robust. Wings dilute 

 brown, becoming intense at costa and on anterior cubital vein. 

 Bristles pale. Pile on occiput above, mesonotum, scutellum, squamse, 

 metapleural tuft, and dorsum of segments 1^, white, and generally 

 long, becoming appressed and curly on lateral mesonotal margins 

 and apical margins of abdominal segments. All other pile on head, 

 pleura, venter, and fifth and following segments, black and abundant. 

 Length, 12 mm. 



Type.—d"; Yosemite Valley, California, May 22, 1908, (E. T. 

 Cresson, Jr.). [A. N. S. P. No. 6206.] Paratijpe. — 9 ; topotypical. 



GERON Meigen. 



Were it possible to have all material of this genus in perfect, un- 

 abraded condition, there might be some chance of finding more 

 characters of differentiation than one is able to do with the specimens 

 usually met with in collections. The study and examination of the 

 small amount of material before me, however, gave some results 

 worthy of note, and which will at least separate several species 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



without much trouble. The types of Loew, Coquillett, and others, 

 should be studied in conjunction with the few notes given below 

 in order to fix more definitely the status of some of the species of 

 those authors. To eliminate the chances of misidentification, I 

 give new names to the forms herein described, knowing full well 

 that there is a possibility of synonymy regarding some of them. 



The form of the genitalia of the male and of the seventh ventral 

 segment of the female, offers the most satisfactory characters for 

 separating several species, or, possibly, groups of species. The vena- 

 tion, with one exception, offers no usable characters, but the color 

 of the vesture may prove to be more valuable if perfectly preserved 

 specimens are available for study. In other respects, in structure 

 and color, there seems to be very little of value. The genitalia of 

 the male offers two distinct types, which may, on more detailed 

 study, show still other characters of value. The organs mentioned 

 are generally well exposed and easily seen. One type has the ''clasp- 

 ers" well developed, paired, upper and lower, finger-like. The other 

 type has no distinctly developed "claspers," but the parts corre- 

 sponding to these are developed into a polished, chitinous, half 

 disk-like organ, with a rosette of two to four thorn-like processes or 

 filaments. As mentioned above, there are probably, within these 

 two types, other characters which may prove valuable. In the 

 present study this detailed examination is not undertaken. 



Geron digitaria new species. 



cf. Black; oral margin, halteres including stalk, squamae, bases 

 of wings, pale yellowish. Tibiae brownish. Opaque. Frons, face, 

 occiput below, lateral margins of mesonotum, pleura, venter, femora, 

 gray to white pruinose. All pile silvery white, becoming slightly 

 dusky on dorsum where it is sparse. Dorsum also sparsely golden 

 lanuginous, becoming silvery below. First antennal joint black, 

 pilose. Third longer than first two together, slender, conical. Ulti- 

 mate section of fourth vein longer than preceding. Claspers of 

 hypopygium finger-like. Length, 5 mm. 



Ty-pe. — d^; Highrolls, New Mexico, June 11, 1902, (Viereck), 

 [A. N. S. P. No. 6207.] 



A series of eight males from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, 

 Delaware, and Virginia, varying in size from 3-5 mm. are apparently 

 conspecific. The pile on the dorsum, when present, is generally 

 golden brown. A series of seven females from Pennsylvania and 

 Maryland may be associated with the above males, and are similar. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 185 



with the frons brown and golden lanuginose medianly; orbits ciner- 

 eous. The seventh ventral with sublateral, rounded lobes, which, at 

 most, slightly overlap. 



The above specimens may be subauraia Lw,, or vitripennis Lw., 

 while albipennis Lw., may be represented by a series of 6cf, 12 9 

 from Cloudcroft, (May), Alamogordo, (April), Highrolls, (June), 

 East Las Vegas, (June), all of New Mexico, and Ysleta, Texas, 

 (April), this specimen differing from the above as follows: Dorsal 

 pile white; the lanuginose vesture not so yellow, that of the frons 

 in 9 being entirely silvery. 



The two forms seem to be more or less intergradant but may 

 prove to be distinct species upon more detailed study. 



Geron digitaria var. robusta new variety. 



Ranging larger than the typical form, and very similar except 

 that the pile of first antennal joint is white; of the dorsal surfaces 

 of the body, golden yellow as is also the lanuginose vesture above. 

 The lobes of the seventh ventral are somewhat pointed and are more 

 distinctly developed, apparently as separated developments of the 

 ventral segment. The male of this form may be difficult to separate 

 from those of digitaria, but the female certainly represents a distinct 

 variety. Length, 5-7 mm. 



Type. — 9 ; Hancock, Maryland, August 15, (F. R. Cole), [A. N. 

 S. P. No. 6208]. Paratype.—l 9 ; topotypical. 



Geron nivea new species. 



Similar to digitaria but all pile snow white; the lanuginose vesture 

 white and yellow mixed on the dorsum; middle tibiae pale. Geni- 

 talia of male broad when seen from above, with a lateral, subapical, 

 conical tubercle and a lateral subbasal spine-like filament. The 

 females have no golden tomen on the frons, and the lobes of the 

 seventh ventral overlap, appearing as a ventral segment. 



Type. — cf ; East Highlands, California, September 15, 1914, (F. R. 

 Cole), [A. N. S. P. No. 6209]. Paratype-s.—ld", 19; topotypical. 

 A male from Alamogordo, New Mexico, April, (Rehn & Viereck), 

 seems to be conspecific. 



A series of 6 cf , 3 9, Manayunk, Pennsylvania, Jamesburg, New 

 Jersey, and Linnieville, Maryland, July, (R. C. Shannon), are prob- 

 ably a variety of this species. The dorsal pile is yellow and the 

 lanuginose vesture yellow. 



Phthiria psi new species. 



This form runs to divisa in Coquillett's table {Trans. Amer. Ent. 

 Soc, xxi, 102) but differs considerably from that species. 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



9 . Yellow, with black as follows: Spot on ocelli, frons medianly, 

 tip of third antennal joint, proboscis, three broad, more or less coa- 

 lescing mesonotal stripes, the lateral ones abbreviated anteriorly and 

 somewhat interrupted at suture, the median one abbreviated pos- 

 teriorly also, spot on mesopleura, sternopleura and on hypopleura, 

 and apices of tarsi. Wings hyaUne. Pile sparse, short and pale. 

 Head much broader than long. Vertex one-third ^vidth of head. 

 Proboscis extending twdce length of head; palpi a little beyond epi- 

 stoma. Costal length between second and fork of third three times 

 that between firet and second; anterior cross vein far beyond 

 middle of discal cell. Length, 3.5 mm. 



Type.— Redlands, California, 1912, [F. R. Cole Coll.]. 



In some specimens the frons may prove to be dark medianly and 

 the abdomen shows dark bases to segments. 



Lordotus divisus new species. 



Distinguished from all known species by the entirely black pile 

 on the thorax and abdomen. 



cT. Black; knob of halteres and squamae whitish yellow. Wings 

 clear; veins yellow; antecostal cell black. All pile black, becoming 

 brownish on scutellum. Cilia of squamae alaris white, of squamae 

 thoracalis brown. First antennal joint nearly as long as third; 

 second not longer than broad. Proboscis extending in length equal 

 to that of head and thorax together; palpi as far as second antennal 

 joint. Length, 6-8 mm. 



Type. — cf ; Alamogordo, New Mexico, April 30, 1902, (Viereck), 

 [A. N. S. P. No. 6215]. 



Heterostylum vierecki new species. 



Differing from robustum 0. S., in having the scutellum black, and 

 the pile of the second abdominal segment wholly black. Differing 

 from sackeni Will., in having the facial pile white. 



cf. Black; face, halteres, fourth and fifth abdominal segments 

 excepting a medial stripe, fore and middle tibiae, pale. Wings 

 entirely brown, becoming diluted along inferior margin. Pile black 

 on ocellar tubercle, frons, first antennal joint, scutellum in part, all on 

 second, sixth and genital segments, third except basal row, medially 

 on segments 4-5, and most of venter. White on face, occiput, pleura, 

 first abdominal segment. Yellow on mesonotum, scutellum in part, 

 and remainder of abdomen, but on latter mixed with white. No bristles 

 except the red ones at roots of wings. Opaque. Frons, face, first 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



and second antennal joints, occiput and pleura, gray to white pruinose. 

 JVIesonotum rather brownish. Scutellum sUghtly shining. Femora 

 and tibiae yellow tomentose. First antennal joint one-half as long 

 as third; second globose; third gradually tapering to a minutely 

 styled apex. Proboscis extending, in length equal to head and 

 thorax together. Palpi short. Length, 7-9 mm. 



9 . Similar, but pile on mesonotum mostly black. 



Type.~c^; Alamogordo, New Mexico, April 22, 1902, (Viereck), 

 [A. N. S. P. No. 6216]. Paratypes.—l d" , 19; topotypical. 49; 

 El Paso, Texas, April 5-26, 1902. 



The series shows little variation. The line of fine white hairs 

 of the third abdominal segment is sometimes wanting, and the black 

 pile of the fourth segment sometimes extends to basal half; the pale 

 pile limited to the mixture on the lateral margin and on the pale 

 ground-part of the fourth and fifth segments. 



Bombylius facialis new species. 



cf . Black; face brown; halteres whitish; apices of middle and hind 

 femora, all tibiae, yellow to tawny. Wings infuscated basally and 

 along costa, becoming hyaline apically and inferiorly. Face shining; 

 mesonotum and scutellum subopaque. Frons yellowish pilose, and 

 yellow tomentose; tubercle, face and antennae, black pilose; occiput, 

 mesonotum, and scutellum, pale yellowish pilose; abdomen also 

 pale except narrow apices of segments 2, 3, 4, which are black. Cheeks, 

 pleura, pectus and venter, white pilose. Femora white tomentose; 

 fore and middle ones with white hairs, and hind one with black 

 bristles, below. Apices of second to fifth abdominal segments pale 

 yellow tomentose which is slightly more dense medially, suggesting 

 a medial dorsal line. Third antennal joint longer than first two 

 together, cylindrical, narrower than second, with short terminal 

 style. Proboscis as long as head, thorax, and abdomen together. 

 First submarginal cell not broader at apex than at base of second 

 submarginal. Length, 7-8 mm. 



Type.— d^ ; Rim of Grand Canyon, Arizona, 7000 feet, alt., May 23, 

 1918, (F. M. Jones), [A. N. S. P. No. 6213]. 



A female from Oracle, Arizona, April 28, (F. M. Jones), is appa- 

 rently conspecific with the above male. It has the dorsal pile more 

 yellowish; tomen of abdomen covering the entire segments; pile at 

 vertex black; anterior part of frons with pale pile and pale tomen; 

 a little pale pile at epistoma; third antennal joint broader and 

 suddenly pointed apically. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



I cannot associate these specimens with any description, but 

 realize that in this Httle understood genus they may have been 

 described previously. However, I hesitate to let these well-preserved 

 specimens remain in the collection without a name or with a temporary 

 determination. 



MYDAID^. 



Ecthypus limbatus Will. 



1886. Williston, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, xiii, 292. 



Before me is a male from Waterman Canyon, Amador County, 

 California, May, (J. C. Martin), [Cal. Acad. Sci.], which is appa- 

 rently this species. The species is based on a female from Arizona. 

 The male is herewith briefly described. 



Rufous; occiput, frons, proboscis, apex of third antennal joint, 

 three mesonotal stripes, notopleural stripe, pectus, bases of first and 

 second abdominal segments, lateral margins of remaining segments, 

 bases of ventral segments, and apical appendages of hypopygium, 

 black. Apical margins of dorsal and ventral segments conspicuously 

 yellow. Wings except apices yellowish tinged. Proboscis project- 

 ing sHghtly beyond second antennal joint; third antennal joint 

 slender, five or six times as long as first two together; club consists 

 of about three-fourths of third joint, robust, of about equal width 

 throughout, except at apical fourth, w^hich tapers. Hind femora 

 thickened at apical three-fourths and spinose beneath; tibiae straight. 

 First posterior cell open. Length, 24 mm. 



Leptomydas pantherinus Gerst. 



1868. Gerstaecker, Stet. Ent. Zeit., xix, 85. 



The males here are black except the knees, tibiae, tarsi, and pos- 

 terior margins of the abdominal segments especially 'the apical ones. 



Before me are 4 cf , 4 9, from the following localities in California : 

 Colma, July to August, (J. A. Kusche), [Cal. Acad. Sci.]. San Fran- 

 cisco, March, (J. A. Kusche), [Acad. Cal. Sci.]. Mesa Grande, 

 Sonoma County, June, (J. P. Baumberger), [A. N. S. P.]. 



Leptomydas sponsor O. S.? 



1886. Osten Sacken, Biol. Cent. Amer., Dipt., i, 68. 



A male from Coronado, May, (F, E. Blaisdell), [Cal. Acad. Sci.], 

 which seems to be this species has the following characters: 



Head and thorax entirely black with white polished pilose mark- 

 ings. First abdominal segment and following ones, laterally, black; 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



lateral apical angles of two to six white; remainder of abdomen 

 rufous. Fore and middle femora dark basally; apices of their tibiae, 

 and tarsi yellow. Hind legs except coxae rufous. Wings brownish 

 ^\ath darker borders to the veins. Proboscis as long as the black 

 antennae. Halteres black. 



Leptomydas brachyrhynchus O. S.? 



1886. Osten Sacken, Biol. Cent. Am., Dipt., i, 69. 



There are before me from the following California localities: 3cf , 

 San Diego, and Mokelumne Hill, Calaveras Co., (F. E. Blaisdell), 

 [Cal. Acad. Sci.] ; 1 9 , Barstow, San Bernardino Co., June, (J. R. 

 Haskin), [Cal. Acad. Sci.]. Although these w^ere collected from 

 widely separated localities, they seem to be conspecific. The only 

 difference in the ]Mokelumne Hill specimen is the narrow, dark, 

 bases of the abdominal segments and the slight paling in the color 

 of the apex of the antennal club. 



A brief description of the male is given below. The species is 

 based on a female from Mexico. 



cf . Wax yellow; head except middle of face, apices of third an- 

 tennal joint and entire club, mesonotum except humeri and lateral 

 margins, scutellum, more or less of pectus, metanotum, first ab- 

 dominal segment, stigmatic spot on second, spot on lateral margins 

 of all segments, and halteres, black. All pilosity yellow. Two 

 median and lateral mesonotal stripes and sometimes apex of club, 

 pale. Wings yellow. Bases of abdominal segments sometimes nar- 

 rowly black. Third antennal joint three times as long as first two 

 together, equalling the club; the latter tapering to near apex, then 

 abruptly attenuating to a rather blunt apex. Proboscis short. 

 Hind femora slightly thickened on apical half, with few flexor bristles; 

 tibiae without spurs. First posterior cell closed. Length, 17 mm. 



SYRPHID^. 



Omegasyrphus baliopterus Loew. 



1872. Microdon halioptems Loew, Berl. Ent. Zeit., xvi, 86. (Cent., x, 56.) 



Originally described from Texas. I can report the follo^ving: 

 One male from Mexico wdth the first posterior cell completely di- 

 vided by the extension of the stump from the third vein. One 

 female from Round Mountain, Texas. One female. Mill Valley, 

 California, June, (E. P. VanDuzee), [Cal. Ac. Sci.]. The last is a 

 dark specimen showing the antennae black, or, in certain angles the 

 first joint brownish; femora black with tibiae and tarsi brownish. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Otherwise similar to, and apparently conspecific with, the two first 

 noted specimens. 



Mixogaster breviventris Kahl. 



1897. Kahl, Kans. Univ. Quart., vi, 137. 



Originally described from Kansas. Before me are two specimens 

 from Yaphank, Long Island, New York, September, (W. T. Davis). 



Callicera johnsoni Hunter. 



1896. Hunter, Can. Ent., xxviii, 87. 



One male from Round Mountain, Texas, differs somewhat from 

 the original description. It wants the opaque marks on the face, 

 cheeks, and abdomen, except that there are faint indications of nar- 

 row, semi-opaque bands on second and third segments. 



Callicera montensis Snow. 



1892. Snow, Kans. Univ. Quart, i, 34 (pi. vii, f. 4). 



One specimen, Grand Canyon, Arizona, 7000 feet alt.. May, (F. M. 

 Jones). This agrees with the original description but the pile of 

 the pleura, pectus, and venter of the abdomen is black. Snow says 

 that the pile of the thorax and abdomen is ''everywhere" golden 

 red. The pile of the eyes in this specimen is blackish brown, not 

 golden. The third antennal joint is at least four times as long as 

 the first and second together. No pale articulations on the tarsi. 



Can this be distinct from montensis? The species was originally 

 described from Colorado, 9000 feet alt., and subsequently reported 

 from New Mexico, at 9500 feet alt. 



Merodon equestris var. validus Verr. 



1822. Merodon validus Meigen, Syst. Beschr., iii, 365. 



1901. Merodon equestris Fab. var. validus Verrall, Brit. Flies, viii, 559. 



One female, San Francisco, California, April, (C. L. Fox), [Cal. 

 Ac. Sci.]. 



CONOPID^. 

 Dalmannia blaisdelli new species. 



Differs from pi da Will, and nigriceps Lw. in having the pilosity 

 black, although on the second and third abdominal segments of the 

 male it is somewhat paler. 



cf . Abdominal segments 2, 3, 4, narrowly yellow at apices, which 

 color extends basally at the middle as a wedge but not attaining the 

 bases of the segments; fifth segment with a medial yellow spot. All 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



femora black except the broad apices. All pile black except on 

 second and third abdominal segments. Length, 6-7 mm. 



9 . Similar but the yellow on segments 3, 4, 5, with sublateral, 

 rectangular prolongations basally and the medial wedge attains 

 base of fifth; sixth segment yellow with two black apical converging 

 stripes. Femora yellow except fore one above; and hind one with 

 subapical black ring. All pile black. 



Type.— d"; Colorado [A. N. S. P. No. 6211]. Paratijpe.—l 9 , 

 Mokelumne Hill, Calaveras Co., California, August, (F. E. Blais- 

 dell), [Cal. Acad. Sci.]. 



ORTALID^. 

 Rivellia cognata new species. 



Same as flavimana Lw. but the legs are entirely yellow excepting 

 that the hind tibiae and apices of tarsi are brownish, but never black. 

 The wing markings are similar. 



Type. — d^ ; Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, June 11, 1905, (E. T. 

 Cresson, Jr.), [A. N. S. P. No. 6212]. Paratypes.—2d^, 1 9 ; topo- 

 typical. 



A series of seventeen specimens from the following localities: 

 Pennsylvania: Manayunk, Philadelphia, Swarthmore. New York: 

 Ithaca. New Jersey: Medford. Georgia. Florida: St. Petersburg. 

 Wisconsin: Beaver Dam. It seems to be more common than flavi- 

 mana in collections. There is much to suggest Herina metaUica v. d. 

 Wulp, but I cannot find any reference in the description of or in 

 the figure of that species that the costal cell is entirely infus- 

 cated. The figure shows the infuscation only at the extreme base, 

 while vnih the present form this color extends to the first band as 

 it does in flavimana. There should not be any confusion between 

 the present form and qiiadrifasciata. In that species the first basal 

 cell is entirely infuscated and the abdomen often rufous, and on the 

 whole is a much more robust species. 



SEIOPTERA Kirby and Spence. 



1817. Kirby and Spence, Intro. Ent., ii, 305. 

 1830. Myodina Desvoidy, Essai Myod., 727. 

 1867. Seoptera Loew, Bed. Ent. Zeit., xi, 29.5. 



This genus was proposed in a very meagre way, but as a species 

 is included in the original citation, the name is valid. It is based 

 on Musca vihrans Linn. (1761). The limit of the genus has been 

 very much restricted as only one or two species are known to belong 

 to it. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [Oct., 



In the study of some North American material in conjunction with 

 typical vibrans from Europe, I have made some notes on the genus 

 and the species included, and have found a new form which seems 

 to belong here. The form found within our fauna has been listed 

 in the catalogues and placed in collections as colon Lw., and some- 

 times as vibrans Linn. For some time I have been endeavoring to 

 separate these by means of the descriptions, notes given by Loew, 

 and examination of material, but with no degree of satisfaction. 

 A critical study of a specimen of vibrans from Europe has given the 

 same result, and so it is ev^ident to me that colon and vibrans are 

 synonymous. The examination of the types of these two species 

 may give contradictory results. 



Seioptera vibrans Linn. 



1761. Musca vibrans Linnaeus, Faun Suec, 1867. 



1867. Se'optera colon Loew, Berl. Ent. Zeit., xi, 296, (Cent., ii, 6). 



In this species we have the frons one-third to one-fourth width 

 of head, opaque, red orange, not with conspicuous silvery orbits; 

 median orange portion black setulose. Face slightly lighter, more 

 yellowish, in profile nearly straight on account of the prominent, 

 obtuse keel; orbits silvery. Cheeks concolorous. Occiput, thorax 

 and abdomen, shining black. Legs black but tarsi brown, especially 

 basally. No supraalar bristles. Mesopleura with pale micro -pubes- 

 cence; sternopleura with 1-2 bristles well separated. Ovipositor 

 with basal segment narrow, much narrower than long. Wings 

 hyahne with stigma and spot at apical margin infuscated. First 

 posterior cell narrowed so that its apex is no broader than its base. 

 Anal cell with slight point at apex. 



The specimens from our fauna, with one or two exceptions, seem 

 to have only one sternopleural bristle. These bristles are so slender 

 and hair-like that they are probably variable. Seventeen male and 

 six females have been examined from Canada, Rhode Island, New 

 York, Pennsylvania, Illinois, and Montana. 



Seioptera albipes new species. 



Here we have a species offering a different facial profile from 

 that of vibrans, being distinctly concaved with a weak carina. The 

 frons is broader than in that species, with shining orbits which are 

 only very narrowly silvery. There is a distinct supraalar bristle 

 and the mesopleura are black, setulose or pubescent; sternopleura 

 with two hair-like bristles close together. The fore tibiffi and tarsi, 




1919.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



and middle and hind tarsi are wliite; the latter not at all darkened 

 apicall}^ The fore tibiae may be darkened at bases and the middle 

 tibise may be light brown. The basal segment of ovipositor is very 

 large, about one-half as long as the abdomen and as broad as long. 

 The first posterior cell is broader at apex than at base, almost twice 

 as broad; anal cell truncate, not acute. In other respects similar to 

 pibrans. 



Type. — 9 ; Sw^arthmore, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, May 25, 

 1912, (E. T. Cresson, Jr.), [A. N. S. P. No. 6210]. A series of Id', 

 3 9 , from Ithaca, New York, May to June, [Cornell] are conspecific. 



That this species may not be congeneric with vibrans is possible, 

 but I am unable to place it in any other genus. The fact that Sieop- 

 tera is not a typical Ulidiinse, especially in the construction of the 

 anal cell, allows one to enlarge somewhat on its limits. The present 

 species will no doubt be found in many collections under colon or 

 vibrans. 



PSILIDiE. 

 Psila angustata new species. 



Similar to lateralis Lw., but larger and the third antennal jdint is 

 much longer. In lateralis the size is 3.5-3.-9 mm., and the third 

 antennal joint is scarcely longer than the second. TaxMiy to yellow; 

 third antennal joint apically, occiput spot, face medianly, faint 

 spot behind vetrical bristles, pleural stripe under humeri to base of 

 halteres, and entire abdomen, black. Lower part of plem'a, cpxae, 

 and legs, pale yellow. Wings hyaline, yellowish to browmish along 

 costa and veins. Arista white pubescent. Third antennal joint 

 slender, three times as long as second. Length, 4.7-5.9 mm. 



Type.— d; Ithaca, New York, August 23, 190'4, [Cornell Univer- 

 sitj']. Paratypes. — 3d, 5 9 ; topotypical. 



PIOPHILID^. 

 Mycetaulus hornigi new species. 



Agreeing with the generic description of Mycetaulus, but super- 

 ficially simulating Piophila nigriceps Meig. The two dorsocentral 

 bristles each ■s\'ith a stout setula before it, but behind the suture, 

 and are readily distinguished from the short abundant pile. Fore 

 femora vnih. 3-4 flexor bristles at apical end of the posterior flexor 

 series of hairs. 



d. Black, polished. Occiput subopaque but not polished. Pro- 

 pleura with silvery dot. Second antennal joint, base of third, base 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



of fore femora, middle and hind legs including coxae entirely, and 

 veins, yellow. Fore coxae, squamae, and halteres white. Wings 

 entirely clear. Frons one-third width of head, but slightly narrowed 

 at antennae. Cheeks broad as third antennal joint. Scutellum 

 flat. Posterior cross vein slightly longer than ultimate section of 

 fifth; anal vein slightly curved, not attaining margin. 



Type.- — cf"; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, June 3, (H. Hornig), 

 [A. N. S. P. No. 6217]. Paratype.— ^ ; topotypical. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



mollusca of glacier national park, montana. 



by s. stillman berry. 

 Introduction. 



During the month of August, 1916, in the course of a brief vaca- 

 tion in the Glacier National Park, Montana, the writer incidentally 

 made a small collection of mollusks, which, though doubtless not 

 in any way complete for even those portions of the region visited, 

 is none the less of considerable interest, particularly from the 

 standpoint of the zoogeographer. The facts, that within the bound- 

 aries of this Park the three principal continental watersheds find 

 their point of junction, and that collections were made on all three 

 sides of the continental pinnacle thus formed, give a peculiar interest 

 to the records. To the great, rough, triangular rock called Triple 

 Divide Peak, belongs the honor of being, at least so far as drainage 

 goes, the top of the North American Continent. One of its three 

 faces drains into Norris and Red Eagle Creeks, and thence via the 

 St. Mary's and Saskatchewan Rivers into Hudson's Bay; one drains 

 into Cut Bank Creek and thence \ia the Marias River and the 

 Missouri-Mississippi into the Gulf of Mexico; the third drains via 

 Nyack Creek and the Flathead and Columbia Rivers into the Pacific. 



This will suffice to indicate why the student of geographical dis- 

 tribution must find a peculiar interest in the elucidation of the fauna 

 of the region, though unfortunately the present collections are not 

 sufficiently complete that any very general conclusions may be safely 

 drawn, even for the single phylum Mollusca. They were carried 

 out at odd moments along the trail or while stopping to rest, and 

 nowhere was it possible to make them reasonably exhaustive. 



The writer was accompanied on the entire expedition by Mr. 

 Elw^n H. Dole, of Winnecook, Montana, and during the latter 

 part of the tramp by Dr. A. H. Warthin, of the University of 

 JVIichigan, and his son, Master Aldred Warthin. His thanks are 

 due to each of these gentlemen for help in the work of collecting, 

 as well as to Mr. E. G. Vanatta, of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, for his critical comparison of certain 

 specimens with others in the collections of the Academy^ 



The total number of species taken was not large — some eleven 

 of land snails and a single freshwater bivalve — but several con- 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



stitute new records for the state, and one, the interesting Polita 

 chersinella (Dall), has previously been known only from the Cali- 

 fornian Sierras. One subspecies, Oreohelix cooperi apiarium is here 

 described as new. Euconulus fulvus (alaskensis ?) proved by all 

 odds the most abundant and widely distributed species in the Park, 

 being taken at 14 of the 18 stations. Other relatively abundant 

 forms are Vertigo modesta parietalis (a good second to Euconulus), 

 Oreohelix cooperi apiarium, and Thysanophora ingersolli (though for 

 both of these last two species the figures to be quoted include dead 

 shells). We did not discover how to find the Oreohelix or the Polita 

 hinneyana until toward the end of the trip, else the figures for each 

 of these might have been larger. 



It is evident that the fauna as a whole exhibits a markedly boreal 

 or Hudsonian aspect, in which the occurrence of such species as 

 Oreohelix cooperi apiarium, Polita chersinella, and Punctum cali- 

 fornicum seems more or less anomalous. Quite unexpectedly the 

 list is an altogether different one from that collected by the late 

 Mr. L. E. Daniels in the Bitter Root Mountains and reported upon 

 by Mr. Vanatta in these Proceedings for 1914 (Vanatta :14). 

 Though his list is a much more extensive one, some seven species, or 

 just one more than half of those here recorded, fail to appear therein. 



A first duplicate series of the specimens taken has been deposited 

 in the collections of the Academy, 



Historical. 



In my search of the literature I have been unable to discover any 

 previous record of Mollusca taken within the actual confines of 

 the Glacier National Park with the single exception of a note by 

 F. C. Baker (:14, p. 106), wherein he mentions finding some dead 

 shells of Oreohelix cooperi "at Glacier National Park, Montana, in 

 a ravine about a mile west of the hotel." 



Some collecting was done by Dr. G. M. Dawson in 1874, and 

 Mr. J. B. Tyrrell in 1883, just north of the present Park near Water- 

 ton Lake on the Canadian side of the boundary, and Oreohelix cooperi 

 limitaris {Helix limitaris Dawson) was described from the material 

 taken, but most of the records seem never to have been published. 



List of Stations with Data. 



The recorded stations from which mollusks were taken on this 

 expedition are eighteen in number, being in consecutive order as 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



follows. Two of the stations (I and XVIII) are really extralimital 

 to the Park: 



Station I. Mt. Henry Trail, 3 miles northwest of Glacier Park 

 Station, just outside the eastern boundary of the Park; alt. 5300 ft.; 

 August 20, 1916; under sticks and bits of bark in moist places along 

 the trail. 



Station II. Mt. Morgan Trail, Dry Fork Canyon; alt. 5200- 

 6000 ft.; August 21, 1916; under sticks, stones, etc., at various inter- 

 vals along trail ; most of the Vertigos found under one small log. 



Station III. Cut Bank Creek; alt. 5800 ft.; August 21, 1916; 

 under sticks not far from creek. 



Station IV. North Slope Triple Divide Pass; alt. 6600 ft.; Aug- 

 ust 22, 1916. 



Station V. Near Going-to-the-Sun Chalets, Gunsight Trail; alt. 

 4600 ft.; August 25, 1916; among loose rocks on slope near trail. 

 (Plate IX, fig. 1.) 



Station VI. Piegan Pass Trail, on west slope of Going-to-the-Sun 

 Mountain; alt. 6000 ft.; August 26, 1916; under sticks except Oreo- 

 helix, which was crawling on sm'face. 



Station VII. Lower end of Grinnell Lake; alt. 5000 ft.; Aug- 

 ust 26, 1916; under sticks. 



Station VIII. Southeast shore of Lake Josephine; alt. 5000 ft.; 

 August 26, 1916; under sticks. 



Station IX. Along road northwest of Lake McDermott; alt. 

 5000 ft.; August 27, 1916; under sticks and bark. (Plate IX, fig. 2.) 



Station X. Ptarmigan Falls; alt. 5600 ft.; E. H. Dole, August 27, 

 1916; under sticks, bark, etc. 



Station XI. Pool near lower end of Iceberg Lake; alt. 6000 ft.; 

 August 27, 1916. (Plate IX, figs. 2-3.) 



Station XII. Upper end of ST\dftcurrent Canyon; alt. 5200 ft.; 

 August 28, 1916; under sticks and small logs on floor of canyon along 

 trail. This station proved one of the most prolific of any at which 

 collecting was done. (Plate IX, fig. 2.) 



Station XIII. Granite Park Trail, just below Granite Park 

 Chalets; alt. 6000 ft.; August 29, 1916; under sticks and small logs 

 along trail. 



Station XIV. Granite Park Trail, near Mineral Creek, at bottom 

 of canyon below Granite Park; alt. 3859 ft.; August 29, 1916; mainly 

 under sticks and pieces of bark around fallen logs along the trail. 

 The best locality for small land snails we found in the Park. The 

 forest in this canyon is magnificent and very dense. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Station XV. Granite Park Trail, bottom of McDonald Creek 

 Canyon under Haystack Butte; alt. 3650 ft.; August 29, 1916; the 

 Oreohelices found aestivating among a growth composed principally 

 of Rubacer, Rihes, Urtica, Fatsia, and cow parsnip, the Politahinney ana 

 in association. 



Station XVI. Granite Park Trail, bottom of McDonald Creek 

 Canyon opposite Glacier Wall; alt. 3550 ft.; August 29, 1916; same 

 characteristic plant association as for preceding station. 



Station XVII. Granite Park Trail, bottom of McDonald Creek 

 Canyon, under Mt. Cannon; alt. 3450 ft.; August 29, 1916; same 

 characteristic plant association as for preceding two stations. 



Station XVIII. Belton, Montana, just outside southwestern 

 boundary of Park; alt. 3300 ft.; E. H. Dole, August 30, 1916. 



Reference to a map will show that Stations I-III are in the Atlantic 

 drainage basin, IV-XII in the Arctic drainage basin, and XIII- 

 XVIII in the Pacific drainage basin. The terrestrial species as a 

 rule were found to occur in all three watersheds, but Polita binneyana 

 and Striatura milium pugetensis were noted only on the Pacific side. 



Census of Species Taken. 



The accompanying table gives a good idea of the relative abun- 

 dance of the various species collected, both absolutely and with ref- 

 erence to the station and drainage data. 



Notes on the Species. 



Oreohelix cooperi apiarium new subspecies. Plate X. 



The shell is large for this group of Oreohelices, strongly elevated, 

 with an obtuse apex. The spiral sculpture is obsolete below, but 

 strong on the upper half of the whorls where it consists of numerous 

 fine striations, quite visible to the naked eye, which are interrupted 

 by the coarse and \ery irregular lines of growth. The periphery 

 is obtusely angular in front, becoming rounded or with just the 

 faintest suggestion of angulation on the remainder of the last whorl. 

 The umbilicus is narrow and deep, contained in the diameter about 

 six times, its circular outline partially interfered with by the slightly 

 reflexed inner lip. 



The color is extremely variable, the ground color of the shell 

 ranging from a very light brownish cream, almost white, through 

 shades of yellowish brown to dark chestnut, and tones of gray to a 

 livid brownish slate. The adult shell usually shows two narrow 




I? 



M 

 < 

 H 



03 



H 



O 



Pk 

 CQ 



O 



w 

 o 



p 

 < 



> 



< 

 O 



o 



K 



CO 



H 



n 



<! 





CO 



c3 



Q 




200 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



darker bands, one on the shoulder, the other just below the periphery, 

 with sometimes a broader Hght band between, and several weaker 

 and narrower bands below extending upon the base of the shell. 

 Entirely bandless specimens seem to occur but rarely. 



Fig. 1. Orcohclix cooperi apiarium new subspecies. Apical and basal views of 

 shells of unborn young, taken from specimen shown in PI. X, Fig. 2- 2b (type). 

 X13. 



The embryonic shell is lenticular in outline and strongly carinate 

 as usual in the genus. It is sculptured with numerous very fine, 

 crowded, wavy, spiral striae, crossed on the neanic portion by coarser, 

 but still narrow, rather irregularly spaced, wrinkle-like, incremental 

 ridges, some of them eventually becoming almost rib-like above, 

 but practically obsolete below the periphery, where, however, the 

 fine spiral striation is in these young specimens beautifully developed. 



Largest from Smallest Adult Largest, 



Station XVI Station XVI Station XV 



Maximum diameter 22.0 mm. 15.6 mm. 23.2 mm. 



Minimum diameter 2L3 mm. 15.1 mm. 20.3 mm. 



Altitude 19.6 mm. 15.4 mm. 18.0 mm. 



Diameter of umbilicus 3.5 mm. 2.5 mm. 3.7 mm. 



Number of whorls 6V3 6 6 



Illustration, Plate X Figs. 2-2b Figs. 7-7b 



Type. — Cat. No. 4130 of the writer's collection; paratypes in The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the University of 

 Colorado Museum, and the California Academy of Sciences. 



Type Locality. — Station XVI, altitude 3550 ft., McDonald Creek 

 Canyon, opposite Glacier Wall, Granite Park Trail, Glacier National 

 Park, Montana; 37 specimens. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Remarks. — Despite its great size, 0. c. apiarium is nearer, I think, 

 to 0. c. limitaris (Dawson) than to any of the other described races 

 of the cooperi complex. The latter differs in its very much smaller 

 size, less elevation, rather greater carination of the front part of 

 the last whorl, and very much weaker spiral striation on the upper 

 /portion of the whorls. Relative to the size of the shell the hnes of 

 growth are coarser in Iwiiiaris, and the adult shell has from | to 

 f of a whorl less. 



Limitaris has long been greatly misunderstood, and for a time 

 I thought the Glacier Park race might prove to be identical with it, 

 but the recent receipt of good comparative material from the type 

 locality of limitaris, through the kindness of Mr. Frits Johansen, of 

 the Geological Sm-vey of Canada, has led me to the conclusion that 

 the two are measurably distinct, though limitaris comes from near 

 Waterton Lake, just over the border from Glacier Park, Montana. 



If these conclusions are correct, both apiarium and limitaris will 

 stand as reasonably well differentiated subspecies of 0. cooperi (Bin- 

 ney). The McDonald Creek Canyon shells are among the most 

 elevated and largest cooperi I have seen, being surpassed in bulk 

 only by Pilsbry's 0. c. maxima from the Yellowstone National Park. 

 Maxima further differs in its more depressed contour and much 

 more capacious umbilicus. For the loan of a specimen of maxima 

 permitting my direct comparison of the two I am indebted to Dr. 

 Pilsbry. 



Another shell which is probably quite close is that represented 

 by the three largest figures given by Elrod in his "Biological Recon- 

 naissance in the vicinity of Flathead Lake" (;02, pi. 27), over the 

 name of Pyramidula strigosa, var. They are from McDonald Lake, 

 Mission Mountains, Montana, which should not be confused with 

 the lake of the same name in Glacier Park near the type locality of 

 apiariu7n. Not any of the shells he figures on the plate cited appear 

 to me to be correctly referred to strigosa. 



Most of the living specimens taken were found to contain unborn 

 young. The number of embryos per adult varied so greatly that 

 it is evident the smaller numbers did not represent entire broods, 

 probably the last members of a clutch in progress of birth. Twenty 

 specimens from Station XV yielded from 2 to 18 embryos each, 

 the average being 11.6. At Station XVI 12 specimens yielded from 

 3 to 23 embryos each, the average being 14.5. Where but few em- 

 bryos were found they proved generally to be above the average 

 in size, which accords with the supposition that in such cases par- 

 turition was more advanced. 

 14 




202 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The dead shells from Station V on the Arctic side of the Divide 

 are not typical of the race as here described. The same would prob- 

 ably be true of those taken at Station VI, were any of them adult. 



Thysanophora ingersoUi (Bland). 



I do not recall having seen Thysanophora reported from so far 

 north. However no special peculiarities have been detected in these 

 specimens. 



Pyramidula cronkhitei (Newcomb). 



Not found as commonly as would naturally have been expected. 



Punctum californicum Pilsbry. 



This determination is due to Mr. Vanatta. The specimens are 

 distinctly smaller, are much darker brown in color, and appear 

 somewhat more coarsely striate than any Californian specimens of 

 the species before me, and further, although the embryonic whorls 

 are in both instances weakly spirally striate, they are much less 

 distinctly so in the Montana form. 



Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Found commonly only in McDonald Creek Canyon; scattering 

 specimens elsewhere. 



Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pilsbry. 



Wherever we went in the Park Euco7iulus was foimd not only to 

 be ubiquitous but abundant. 



Mr. Vanatta referred the shells sent him to typical fulvus rather 

 than to alaskensis, but I am unable to effect a satisfactory separation 

 of the remainder of the specimens from other Rocky Mountain 

 Euconulus referred unquestioningly to the subspecies. Under a 

 fairly high power (82 diameters), I can discover no trace of spiral 

 sculpture on the earlier turns as in specimens of fulvus s. s. from 

 Unity, Maine. Also there is "about one whorl more in shells of 

 similar size"^ for the Maine form, the color is noticealjly paler, the 

 axial sculpture finer, and the luster brighter. 



Polita binneyana (Morse). 



This was found principally in connection with the same peculiar 

 plant association as Oreohelix cooperi apiarium, and attention to this 

 fact should lead to its discovery at many other Stations than those 



2 Cf. PUsbry and Ferriss, :10, p. 132. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



at which we eventually ran across it, in which case it may prove to 

 be of greater relative abundance than my figures indicate. The 

 record is apparently a new one for the state. 



Polita chersinella (Dall). 



There is a decided discrepancy in the respective descriptions and 

 figures given of chersinella by Dall and Binney, and it is perhaps not 

 yet just certain what chersinella really is. However that may be, I 

 am unable to distinguish the present specimens froin material taken 

 in the Californian Sierras, in spite of the tremendous jump in range. 

 Compared with a somewhat larger specimen of the latter taken near 

 Lake Tahoe by Mr. Allyn G. Smith, the largest of the Glacier Park 

 shells has about one-half a whorl more, has rather more evenly 

 rounded whorls and aperture, and a rounder, flatter spire. The 

 generic position here adopted for the species is at best doubtful, 

 but I feel convinced that it is not a Euconulus, a certain ease of con- 

 fusing one's shells in the field with E. f. alaskensis notwithstanding. 

 It has not been reported pre\'iously outside of California, where it 

 is a characteristic alpine form. 



Striatura milium pugetensis (Dall). 



One would naturally anticipate that these shells would fall in 

 line with theu* Washington neighbor, pugetensis, rather than with 

 the far eastern form, yet Mr. Vanatta considers them "not typical of 

 the var." but "nearer the regular milium." With the first part of 

 the opinion quoted I concur, but not with the second. The Glacier 

 Park shells are not only larger on the average (major diameter 1.67- 

 1.85 mm.) than any (e. g.) Maine or Massachusetts milium I have 

 seen, but possess the strong spiral sculpture of the first whorl and a 

 half which is one of the striking features of the otherwise weakly 

 differentiated pugetensis. Nor is the beautiful silky sculpture of 

 the later whorls, particularly the last, which one sees in New Eng- 

 land specimens and which has been so carefully described and figured 

 by Morse ('64, p. 19, pi. 2, fig. 7), at all so exquisitely developed in 

 the western shells. 



As compared with specimens of typical pugetensis from Seattle, 

 the Montana shells are notably larger, flatter, and coarser in appear- 

 ance, slightly approaching in some respects the giant southern meri- 

 dionalis Pilsbry and Ferriss. It may he that one day this mountain 

 race will require a name of its own. Meanwhile the record is a new 

 one for the state. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Noted frequently as indicated in the table, but nowhere observed 

 in any abundance. 



Vertigo modesta parietalis (Ancey). 



The shells of this series show considerable variation. In some 

 cases a considerable proportion of the shells (a respectable minority 

 of those from Station XII, and a large majority of those from Sta- 

 tions I, II, and IX) have the angular lamella reduced to a mere trace 

 or obsolete, thus approximating the typical modesta. Somewhat 

 less than a third of all the adult shells taken are of this type, the 

 balance being distinctly 5-toothed shells, i. e., true parietalis. 



This Vertigo is abundant at suitable stations all through such 

 portions of the Park as were visited. 



Pisidium abditum Haldeman. 



The specimens were hand picked from a small and very cold pool, 

 but a few score feet from the partly frozen and perpetually frigid 

 Iceberg Lake, at 6000 feet altitude, the highest elevation at which 

 any Mollusca were obtained in the Park. Here they were abundant, 

 and with a small sieve of the proper mesh many specimens could 

 have been taken. 



The specific determination is due to Mr. Vanatta. 



Literature Cited. 



Baker, F. C. 



:14. Northern Idaho shells. Nautilus, v. 27, p. 104-106, January, 1914. 

 Dawson, G. M. 



'75. Land and fresh water Mollusca, collected during the summers of 1873- 

 1874, w^ ihe vicinity of the Forty-ninth Parallel — Lake of the Woods to the Rocky 

 Mountains. British North American Boundary Commission, Report on the 

 Geology and Resources of the region in the vicinity of the Forty-ninth Parallel, 

 etc.. Appendix E, p. 347-350, 1875. 

 Elrod, M. J. 



:02. A biological reconnaissance in the vicinity of Flathead Lake. Bulletin 

 University of Montana, No. 10, (Biological Series No. 3), p. 1-182, text fig. 1-3, 

 pi. 17-46, Missoula, 1902. 

 Morse, E. S. 



'64. Observations on the terrestrial Pulmonifera of Maine, including a cata- 

 logue of all the species of terrestrial and fluviatile Mollusca known to inhabit the 

 state. Journal Portland Society Natural History, v. 1, p. 1-63, text fig. 1-104, 

 pi. 1-10, 1864. 



PiLSBRY, H. A., AND FeRRISS, J. H. 



:10. Mollusca of the Southwestern States. IV. The Chiricahua Mountains, 

 Arizona. Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia, 1910, p. 44- 

 147, text fig. 1-36B, pi. 1-14, April, 1910. 

 Vanatta, E. G. 



:14. Montana shells. Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia, 

 1914, p. 367-371, text fig. 1-2, June, 1914. 




1919.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 205 



Explanation of Plates 



(Note: The illustrations on Plate IX are from photographs by the author. 

 The specimen figures on Plate X were prepared by Mr. John Howard Paine.) 



Plate IX. — Fig. 1. — St. Mary Lake and Going-to-the-Sun Mountain from 

 Going-to-the-Sun Chalets. Station V is in the woods above the Lake in the 

 right foreground. 



Fig. 2. — McDermott Lake, Mount Wilbur, Upper Swiftcurrent Valley, and 

 the Continental Divide, from near the lower end of McDermott Lake. Station 

 IX is in the woods beyond the tepees in the right center. Station XII is at 

 the far upper end of the valley around the mountain shoulder at the left of the 

 picture. Station XI is high up at the base of the steep glacial cirque in the 

 distance to the right of Mount Wilbur. 



Fig. 3. — Iceberg Lake. Station XI is a small pool a few rods from where the 

 picture was taken. 



Plate X. — Oreohelix cooperi apiarium n. subsp. Series of nine specimens 

 from the type locality, Station XVI, Cat. 3613 (excepting the type). Berry Col- 

 lection. The type (Cat. 4130) is the shell shown in Fig. 2-2b. AH figures nat- 

 ural size. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



A PECULIAR VENEZUELAN LAND SNAIL. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 

 Xenodisciila venezuelensis n. gen. and sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is minute, discoidal, being concave above and below, 

 whitish-transparent, glossy, with sculpture of spaced radial grooves 

 after the first half whorl. These grooves become closer near the 

 aperture, and in the largest and freshest specimens they are occupied 



// 



)9^ 



\:. 



Fig. 1. — Xenodiscula venezuelensis. Three views of the shell, and aperture 



more enlarged. 



there by projecting riblets (which may be partly cuticular and de- 

 ciduous). There are not quite three whorls, rapidly increasing, 

 convex, most strongly so above. The aperture is oblique, wide, 

 of irregular shape. On the parietal wall there is a high, thin median, 

 emerging lamella, which penetrates only a short distance, and near 

 the columella there is an oblique, much smaller lamella. The outer 

 and lower margins of the lip are thickened within and toothed. On 

 the columella there is a small blunt tooth followed by a more taper- 

 ing one, with a low third prominence in fully adult shells. Within 

 the outer lip, above the periphery, there is a group of three small 

 teeth, the upper one largest,- the other two sometimes lacking, or 

 developed later. 



Alt. 0.55, diam. 1.6 mm. 



Cariaquita, Venezuela, S. Brown, Bond Venezuela Expedition, 

 1911. Type and paratypes, No. 105,209, A. N. S. P. 



All of the specimens are empty shells, obtained by sifting leaf 

 debris. The affinities of the species remain uncertain, as it is very 

 unlike any described form, but it doubtless belongs to a ,new genus, 

 which may provisionally be placed near Proserpinula or Volvidens, 

 both Antillean genera. 



In the type specimen there is a very minute lamella above the 

 parietal, lacking in the other examples. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1919 



PLATE VIII. 



FOWLER: A NEW SILUROID FISH. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA.. 1919 



PLATE IX. 



BERRY: MOLLUSC A OF GLACIER NATIONAL PARK. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA., 1919 



PLATE X. 









m 





V 



" )»^"s 



4- M^ 



# 



£i?^-.. 



M^^ 



-% 





V *,.jar¥-^- 





*;jM*i 



.^V -;, 



..3»^^.\ 



5>-^ 



lb 





^ 



3b 



^b 



«s«'?»rl 



.* 



3b 



BERRY: MOLLUSC A OF GLACIER NATIONAL PARK. 





1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



November 18, 1919 



The President, John Cadwalader, A. M., LL. D., in the Chair. 



One-hundred and forty-two persons present. 



Dr. Wither Stone made a communication on ''A Naturahst's 

 Camp in the Chiracahua Mountains of Southern Arizona," illus- 

 trated by lantern slides. (No abstract.) 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following 

 papers for the Proceedings: 



"A New Trout from the Mountain Streams of Formosa," by 

 David Starr Jordan and IM. Oshima. 



"Notes on Tropical American Fishes," bj^ Henry W. Fowler. 



"Description of a New Siluroid Fish from Colombia," by Henry 

 W. Fowler. 



" Dipterological Notes and Descriptions," by Ezra T. Cresson, 

 Jr. 



"Mollusca of Glacier National Park, Montana," by S. Stillman 

 Berry. 



"New Genera of Fossil Fishes from Brazil," by David Starr Jor- 

 dan. 



"A Peculiar Venezuelan Land Snail," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Nominations for Officers, Councillors, and members of the Com- 

 mittee on Accounts were made. 



The deaths of Thomas Skelton Harrison, J. Ewing Mears, William 

 C. Stevenson, Jr., George B. Cresson, and Miss Harriet Blanchard, 

 members, and of Gustav Retzius and Ernst Haeckel, correspondents, 

 were announced. 



Miss Anne Hinchman, Walter Palmer, W. H. Van Sickel, Arthur 

 Cope Emlen, and Hampton L. Carson, were elected members. 



The following paper was ordered to be printed; 



15 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



NEW GENERA OF FOSSIL FISHES FROM BRAZIL 

 BY DAVID STARR JORDAN 



In the year 1909, through the courtesy of Dr. John C. Branner, 

 the collection of fossil fishes of the Servif o Geologico e Mineralogico 

 do Brazil was sent to me for study by the late Orville A. Derby, 

 then head of the Survey and director of the Museu Nacional at Hio 

 de Janeiro. For reasons, easily understood in these days of con- 

 fusion, my report on these fishes has been c'elayed. As, however, 

 reference is made to the new genera concerned in a forthcoming 

 treatise by Dr. Branner on the geology of Brazil, it seems desirable 

 to publish the three new genera named in this report. 



The specimens concerned are of the Cretaceous age and came 

 from Barra do Jardim, Serra do Araripe, at Ceara, Brazil, the local- 

 ity from which Gardner secured for Agassiz the original specimens 

 of several species. These examples, like those of Agassiz, were 

 originally rolled on the beach between tide marks, each becoming 

 the nucleus of a clay concretion. 



We may note in this connection that Notelops brama (Agassiz) is 

 identical with Calaniopleurus cylindricus Agassiz. It should ap- 

 parently stand as Calaniopleurus hrama. Cladocyclus gardneri Agas- 

 siz is probably one of the Osteoglossidse, and not related to the Euro- 

 pean species, lewisiensis, called Cladocyclus by Agassiz and others. 



Family ELOPID^. 

 ENNELICHTHYS new genus. 



Type: Ennelichthys derhyi Jordan. 



In the collection are two large skulls (No. 55 Jardim, and No. 57 

 Jardim, the latter with counterpart) of a large elopine fish evidently 

 allied to the genus Enneles of Jordan and Branner. From the latter 

 it is distinguished by its smaller mouth, the maxillary scarcely 

 extending beyond eye, and by its excessively strong dentition, the 

 anterior teeth in the lower jaws being long, sharp and fang like; those 

 of the upper jaws similar but smaller. 



Ennelichthys derhyi new species. 



The species named Ennelichthys derhyi in honor of the late Orville 

 Adelbert Derby, formerly a fellow student in Cornell University, 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



and later the head of the Servigo Geologico e Mineralogico do- 

 Brazil at Rio de Janeiro. The type of Ennelichthys derhyi, No. 55, 

 is a head about 6 inches long, the left side somewhat crushed down, 

 the right side intact, but moi-e or less battered, especially posteriorly. 

 Opercle battered, the subopercle not evident; bones of top of head 

 rugose; preopercle broad, with radiating striae at angle; cheek 

 covered by a large bone; two bones behind eye. 



Mouth very large, very oblique, the lower jaw projecting; snout 

 very short, about 5f in head; eye 5 in he£id; maxillary 2i, man- 

 diljle about 2. Both jaws with, long, sharp, fang-like teeth anter- 

 iorly, the longest in front of lower jaw about I to ^ diameter of eye, 

 the next longest on sides of mandible, about 8 of these evident. 

 Posterior teeth of both jaws rather smaller, and the upper teeth ap- 

 parently smaller, than lower and more widely set, but no small teeth 

 and no broad teeth visible anywhere. A pit filled with stone on 

 each side corresponding to the nostril. While most of the teeth 

 are lost, fang-like teeth are seen at intervals in both jaws. 



BRANNERION new genus. 



Type: Calmnopleurus vestitus Jordan and Branner. 



The species described by Jordan and Branner under the name of 

 Calamopleurus vestitus, should form the type of a distinct genus of 

 Elopidse, distinguished by the long anal fin which begins under the 

 last ray of the dorsal, and the deep short body with correspondingly 

 long ribs. The scales are large, but of the same character as in 

 Calamopleurus, and the lateral line is well developed. 



The genera of Brazilian Cretaceous Elopidse may be thus compared 



with the living genera: 



a. Eloping: Pseudobranchiae large (in living species) scales 

 relatively small; last ray of dorsal not prolonged; anal 

 smaller than dorsal ; base of caudal more or less scaly, 

 b. Dentition even, the teeth slender and close-set; dorsal with 

 a sheath of scales, 

 d. Anal fin long, beginning under last rays of dorsal, its raj^s 

 15 or more; ventrals below or before dorsal; scales rather 

 large, 20 in a cross series below dorsal; lateral line well 

 developed. (Teeth unknown). Brannerion. 



dd. Anal fin short, beginning well behind dorsal, 

 e. Ventrals inserted under last rays of dorsal. 



f. Body compressed; subopercle nearly as large as op- 

 ercle; scales small, about 35 in a cross series; lat- 

 eral hne well developed in perfect specimens (obso- 

 lete in those poorly preserved). Calamopleurus^ 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



ff. Body cylindrical, fusiform, scales firm, more or less 



crenulate, about 25 in a cross series; no lateral line, 



opercle very large, convex, much larger than sub- 



opercle. Rhacolepis. 



ee. Ventrals inserted under first ray of dorsal; lateral line 



well developed; body elongate; teeth small, even. 



Elops. 



bb. Dentition uneven, but weak; mouth moderate, oblique; 



scales large; caudal fin with about 10 broad, much-branched 



rays. Ancedopogon. 



bbb. Dentition uneven, some of the teeth large, canines robust. 



g. Maxillary extending far beyond eye; front of jaws with 



very broad teeth; posterior teeth in lower jaw small and 



even. Enneles. 



gg. Maxillary scarcely extending beyond eye; front and 



middle of lower jaw with very long fangs; no broad teeth. 



Enneh'chthys. 

 aa. Megalopin^: Pseudobranchiae none; scales large, firm; 

 anal fin larger than dorsal; last ray of dorsal produced into 

 a long filament; postorbital bones very thin, membrana- 

 ceous; teeth uniform; body compressed, 

 h. Dorsal fin inserted above ventrals. Megalops. 



hh. Dorsal fin inserted behind ventrals. Tarpon. 



Fiimily ASPIDORHYNCHID^. 

 VINCTIFER new genus. 



The Brazilian Cretaceous species hitherto referred to Belonosto- 

 mus differs from the type of the genus in the very much greater depth 

 of the scales composing the lateral line. These are anteriorly 

 about five times as deep as long. The jaws are also more robust than 

 in the typical species. 



In the type of the genus Belonostomus {B. tenuirostns) the jaws 

 are excessively elongated and the scales of the lateral line are scarcely 

 larger than the others. I propose to separate Belonostomus comptoni, 

 and the European species allied to it, as a distinct genus which may 

 be called Vinctifer. It is characterized by the very deep band-like 

 scales along the sides, the relatively. short jaws, and the relatively 

 robust body. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



December 16. 



The President, John Cadwalader, LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



Officers, Councillors, and members of the Committee on Accounts 

 were elected for the ensuing year. 



Annual Reports were received from the Recording Secretary, 

 the Corresponding Secretary, the Librarian, the Curators, the Treas- 

 urer, the auditors of the Treasm-er's accounts, the Treasurer of the 

 Manual of Conchology, the Biological and ^Microscopical Section, 

 the Entomological Section, the Botanical Section, the Ornithological 

 Section, and the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections; and 

 a verbal report on the Mineralogical and Geological Section by 

 Mr. F. J. Keeley. 



The reception of the following papers was reported: 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



MOLLUSCA FROM CENTRAL AMERICA AND MEXICO. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Most of the forms described herein were collected by Mr. A. A. 

 Hinkley during two visits to Guatemala. A few are added from 

 various other localities, collected by Mr. S. N. Rhoads and others. 



With the exception of Neritilia, a peculiar Neritid mollusk with 

 a more specialized radula than others of its family, the species belong 

 to genera already well represented in Mexico and Central America. 

 Salasiella hinkleyi n. sp. Fig. 2. 



The shell is cylindric with tapering spire, glossy, finely, arcuately 

 striate, with numerous irregularly spaced grooves indicating former 

 peristomes. First three whorls rather slowly widening, after which 

 the suture descends more rapidly, oblique to the previous whorls, 

 each succeeding whorl at least double the width of that above it. 

 The last whorl is flattened laterally. Aperture half the length of 

 the shell. Outer lip arching very strongly forward in the middle. 

 Columella very deeply concave above the truncation. 



Length 8.5, diam. 3 mm.; 5^ whorls. 



Mountain side near the Tamosopo Sugar Company's place, San 

 Luis Potosi. Also at El Abra. 



This species changes so much with age that without a good series 

 one would not readily connect the half-grown and the mature stages. 

 After the third whorl the suture descends very rapidly, and the 

 aperture becomes shorter in comparison with the total length. 

 Moreover, the deep, arcuate grooves which characterize the fully 

 adult shell are far weaker and less numerous in specimens of 6 mm. 

 length or smaller. 



It is closely related to S. joaquinoe Strebel, but adult specimens 

 of the same length have a half whorl more and a shorter aperture. 

 Probably the specimens from Diente, near Monterey, Nuevo Leon, 

 referred to joaquince are immature S. hi7iJdeyi. 



16 specimens were taken at El Abra, the largest measuring, length 

 6, diam. 2 mm. The aperture is decidedly over half the total length 

 at this stage. It is quite possible that the largest shell from the 

 type locality (fig. 2) is an exceptionally large and old individual. 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



213 



A review of the species of Salasiella known up to 1907 was given 

 in the Manual of Conchology XIX, pp. 170-174. Since that time 

 S. hrowni Pils., of the Canal Zone, has been described. 



Fig. 3. 



Leptinaria livingstonensis 

 Hinkley. 



Salasiella guatemalensis n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is oblong, pale yellowish, glossy, with fine, unequal 

 growth-ripples. Spire rather short, conic, the apex obtuse. Whorls 

 convex, the third hardly wider than the second, the rest rather 

 rapidly widening, the last somewhat compressed laterally. Aperture 

 more than half the total length. Outer lip strongly arching forward. 

 Columella concave as usual. 



Length 9.9, diam. 4, length of aperture 5.6 mm. ; 5| whorls. 



Gualan, Guatemala, S. N. Rhoads. Type and paratypes. No. 

 114,838, A. N. S. P. 



This species stands near S. hrowni of the Canal Zone, but is stouter 

 with shorter spire. 



A few specimens, not fully mature, were taken by Mr. Hinkley 

 at Jocolo. 



Spiraxis livingstonensis n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 1. 



The shell is subulate, its diameter contained 3.7 times in the 

 length, very pale yellow, composed of 91 rather strongly convex 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



whorls. First 2| whorls are smooth, following whorls sculptured 

 with axial (vertical) ribs less than half as wide as their intervals, 

 about 44 on the penultimate whorl. The upper ends of the ribs 

 project, crenulating the suture. Aperture ovate; columella a little 

 thickened, moderately sigmoid. 



Length 9.25, diam. 2.5, aperture 2.3 mm. 



Mountains west of Livingston, Guatemala (A. A. Hinkley). 



This species is related to S. stdciferus, but it has less crowded, 

 thinner ribs. 



Spiraxis longior n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 2. 



The shell is subulate, very slender, the diameter contained about 

 3.8 times in the length, composed of 9| moderately convex whorls, 

 of which the first 2^ are smooth; apex obtuse; subsequent whorls 

 sculptured with axial (vertical) ribs, which are just perceptibly 

 sinuous, almost straight, and nearly as wide as their intervals. There 

 are about 35 ribs on the penultimate whorl. On the last third of 

 the last whorl the ribs become a little weaker in fully adult shells. 

 Aperture ovate. Columella thin, weakly sinuous. 



Length 8, diam. 2.1, length of aperture 2 mm. 



Mountains west of Livingston, Guatemala (A. A. Hinkley). , 



A very slender form with small aperture, only one-fourth the 

 length of the shell. 



Pseudosubulina martensiana n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 3. 



The shell is slender, a little attenuated near the obtuse apex, 

 corneous-buff, composed of 9 whorls, the first three strongly con- 

 vex, the convexity diminishing subsequently, the later wiiorls being 

 flattened, convex only near the sutures. The initial f whorl pro- 

 jects and is smooth; the next two whorls are of about equal diam- 

 eter, with sculpture of widely spaced axial ribs; on subsequent 

 whorls the ribs are close, rounded, and as wide as their intervals, 

 40 standing on the penultimate whorl. On the last whorl the ribs 

 disappear on the base, which is smooth. Apertures rhombic; col- 

 umella moderately concave, deeply excised at the base. 



Length 11, diam. 3, length of aperture 3 mm. 



Mountains west of Livingston, Guatemala (A. A. Hinkley). 



In the related P. lirifera Morel, the columella is represented as 

 deeply concave, and there are more smooth whorls at the summit. 

 Whether the shell described and figured as P. lirifera by Professor 

 von Martens is really the species of Morelet is not quite certain. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



Guppya elegantula n. sp. Pig. 4. 



The shell is narrowly perforate, pyramidal, resembling G. elegans 

 (Strebel) in form; pale cinnamon, fading at the summit. Surface 



above the periphery having a microscopic 

 sculpture of fine, close, nearly vertical 

 striae, cut by equally close spiral lines, 

 but the latter are not everywhere devel- 

 oped; the base glossy,, with engraved 

 spirals only, far, more widely spaced than 

 on the upper surface. Outlines of the 

 spire are slightly convex. Whorls quite 

 convex, the last rounded peripherally in 

 the adult stage (angular in the young). 

 Aperture semilunar, not very wide. 

 Alt. 3.2, diam. 3.3 mm.; 6| whorls. 



State of Vera Cruz, Orizaba, 500 ft. above the town (Heilprin 

 exped.). San Luis Potosi, canyon and falls below Valles (Hinkley, 

 type loc). Nuevo Leon, Diente near Monterey (S. N. Rhoads). 

 Tamaulipas, in a canyon 4 miles w^est of Victoria, at about 3000 ft. 

 (S. N. Rhoads.) 



This is the species which was formerly identified as G. elegans 

 (Strebel) by the writer. It is nearer that than to any other described 

 species of the region, but on account of the smaller size, in some 

 hundreds of specimens, the identification was not satisfactory. 

 Specimens of the real elegans have now^ turned up, found in a vial 

 labelled H. selenkai, from Mirador, one of the localities given by 

 Strebel for elegans. It is a decidedly larger shell than the present 

 species, probably confined to a warmer zone. 



Specimens from Uruapam and other places in the State of Micho- 

 acan (S. N. Rhoads, 1899), have closer spirals on the base. A single 

 immature specimen from Yautepec, Moreles (Heilprin exped.) prob- 

 ably belongs here. It was recorded by the writer as elegans. 



G. elegantula was collected at Guadalajara, Jalisco, by McConnell 

 and Crawford, 1909. It was taken in river drift at Tampico by 

 Mr. Hinkley, but may have floated there from inland. It appears 

 to be common and widely distributed. 



A closely related form having about one whorl less, and with the 

 aperture a little wider, was taken by Mr. Hinkley about old logs 

 in the banana plantation, Maya farm, Quirigua (No. 28 of his 1913 

 collection). It is more highly conic than G. pittier'i v. Marts., and 

 may perhaps be a new species between pittieri and elegantula, or a 

 subspecies of the latter. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THfi ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Guppya qundlachi (Pfr.) was taken by Mr. Hinkley at Tampico 

 and near San Dieguito, San Luis Potosi, and at the Maya Farm, 

 Quirigua, Guatemala. 



Guppya Jalisco n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 6. 



The shell is minute, umbilicate (the umbilicus small, round, about 

 one-ninth the diameter of the shell), light brown, somewhat glossy, 

 very minutely striate, the striae decussated by close, microscopic 

 spirals on the spire. The spire is somewhat dome-shaped, the 

 outlines convex, summit obtuse. The whorls are closely coiled, 

 nearly equal, very convex, the last one rounded peripherally and 

 convex below. Aperture rather narrow, somewhat lunate. Col- 

 umellar margin a little dilated. 



Alt. 1.7; diam. 1.9 mm.; 5 whorls. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. Type, No. 44,839 A. N. S. P., 

 collected by R. A. McConnell, 1909. 



A very small, compactly coiled shell, much smaller than G. ele- 

 gantula. 



Pseudohyalina maya n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 5, 5a. 



The shell is very minute, shaped much like Z. nitida (Mull.); 

 pale yellow; openly umbilicate, the width of umbilicus somewhat 

 more than one-fourth of the diameter of shell. Surface glossy, 

 showing very faint growth lines under the microscope, bat without 

 spirals. Whorls well rounded, slowly increasing. Aperture lunate, 

 somewhat oblique. 



Alt. 1.1, diam. 1.75 mm.; very nearly 4 whorls. 



Maya farm, Quirigua, Guatemala (A. A. Hinkley). Type and 

 paratypes. No. 107,511 A. N. S. P.; also in coll. Hinkley. 



This form is smaller than Hyalinia permodesta var. rninor v. Mar- 

 tens. 

 Pseudohyalina opal n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 7. 7a. 



Shell very minute, corneous, smooth except for faint lines of 

 growth, having a somewhat silky luster above, glossy beneath; 

 rather narrowly umbilicate, the width of umbilicus contained about 

 61 times in the diameter of the shell. Whorls 4J, convex, the last 

 well rounded; suture compressed, narroAvly margined. Aperture 

 lunate. 



Alt. 1.2, diam. 1.95 mm. 



Polvon, Nicaragua. Types, No. 48, 523 A. N. S. P., collected by 

 the McNeil expedition. 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



217 



Fig. 5. — Averellia hinkleyi. 



This little shell has been in the collection for many years under 

 the name "H. opal McNeil Ms." It is more narrowly umbilicate 

 than Z. mmja, with the last whorl wider, viewed from above. 

 Averellia (Trichodiscina) hinkleyi n. sp. Fig. 5. 



The shell is broadly and openly umbilicate, discoidal, the spire 

 sunken a little; between cinnamon and cinnamon-brown, not banded. 



Surface dull, very 

 densely and minutely 

 papillose, and sparsely 

 covered with long hairs 

 arranged in oblique 

 lines. These hairs are 

 about 0.75 mm. long 

 and about 1 mm. apart. 

 On the penult whorl they persist in the sutural region only, and the 

 first 1^ whorls are smooth, without papillae or hairs. The whorls 

 are convex, the last rounded peripherally, the periphery above the 

 middle; very deeply descending in front. The aperture is sub- 

 horizontal. Peristome pale vinaceous, narrowly reflected, the in- 

 sertions of the lip remote, parietal callus very thin. 



Alt. 5, diam. 12.3 mm.; width of umbiHcus 3.7 mm.; of aperture 

 5 mm. ; 4| whorls. 



Mountains west of Livingston, Guatemala, A. A. Hinkley, 1913. 

 Type and paratype, No. 107,533 A. N. S. P. 



Distinct by its concave spire, very deeply descending last whorl 

 and long hairs. The form and peristome are much as in il. macneili 

 (Crosse), but there is no trace of the peculiar pits of that species. 

 Thysanophora rhoadsi n. sp. Fig. 6. 



The shell is perforate, conic, light brown, dull. The spire is high, 

 a little convexly conic. Whorls very convex, the suture deeply 



impressed. Sculpture of light, fine, somewhat ob- 

 lique growth wrinkles, with much more strongly 

 retractive cuticular raised threads superposed 

 over them, but mainly worn from the type speci 

 men. The last whorl has rather strong, irregular 

 grow'th-wrinkles, and only slight traces of the 

 retractive threads. The aperture is oblique, 

 broad, columellar margin reflected. 

 Alt. 2.8, diam. 2.5 mm.; 5 whorls. 

 Gualan, Guatemala, collected by S. N. Rhoads. 



Fig. 6. 

 Thysanophora rhoadsi. 



Type, No. 114,836 A. N. S. P. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



It is related to T. ccecoides (Tate), but differs by the more ele- 

 vated shape, the altitude exceeding the diameter. 

 Drymaeus dombeyanus (Pfr.). 



In a variety from Guadalajara, Jalisco, the last 2 or 2| whorls 

 are white, the preceding 2 having some indistinct brown spots; 

 lip and interior white; the spire is longer and aperture smaller than 

 in the typical form. 



Length 55, length of aperture with peristome 33 mm.; nearly 7 

 whorls. 



Another variety from the same neighborhood resembles D. dunkeri 

 forreri (Mouss.) in shape and coloration, but has the coarse sculpture 

 of dornheyanus. It is streaked copiously with dull purplish brown, 

 with scattered whitish spots on the streaks. Lip broadly expanded, as 

 in dombeyanus. This variety may be called D. dombeyanus ornatus. 



Length 41, diam. 22, aperture 24 mm. 

 u 43 a 26 " 27 " 



Brachypodella subtilis pulchella (Martens). 



This shell, which Mr. Hinkley has obtained in large numbers in 

 the mountains west of Livingston, Guatemala, is not a form of 

 B. morini as I formerly supposed. It is closely related to B. sub- 

 tilis (Morel.), from which it differs by the smaller size and decidedly 

 stronger sculpture. As in B. subtilis, the early whorls are smooth, 

 while in B. morini they are finely striate. B. subtilis, of which I 

 have an author's specimen, was described from northern Guate- 

 mala, and pulchella from Livingston. • 

 Succinea panamensis n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 4. 



The shell is narrowly ovate with produced spire, pale yellow, not 

 very glossy, with uneven sculpture of striae and low folds. Whorls 

 2f to nearly 3, those of the spire convex, the last whorl weakly con- 

 vex above, strongly so l)elow the periphery. Aperture symmet- 

 rically ovate. 



Length 13.3, diam. 4.5, length of aperture 5.7 mm. 



Panama (Capt. Field); Las Cascades, C. Z. (Dr. A. P. Brown, 

 J910). Type and paratypes, 48,522 A. N. S. P. 



I formerly identified this as "S. recisa Morel.?," but having now 

 seen specimens of Morelet's species from the type locality, it is easy 

 to see that the Panamic species is different. There are 26 speci- 

 mens in the two lots, the largest 14.6 mm. long. As I cannot exactly 

 match the form with any of the numerous Central American or 

 Mexican species, it seems best to descrilje it as new, in order to have 

 a name for the particular form of the Canal Zone. 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



219 



Vaginulus moreleti C. & F. 



Jocolo and Esmeralda Plantation, Rio Dulce, Guatemala (A. A. 

 Hinkley) . 



Physa solidissima n. sp. PI. XI, flg. 8. 



The shell is imperforate, subglobular with very short spire, very 

 thick and solid, composed of 4f whorls, the last one a little fuller 

 above, convexly tapering downwards. Aperture semicircular; outer 

 lip evenly arcuate, thick. Columella very heavy, with a low thick 

 fold or convexity in the middle. 



Length 8.2, diam. 6.3, length of aperture 6.9 mm. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico (McConnell and Crawford). 



This is very unlike any American species I have seen, not only 

 by its extreme solidity, but also by the very short contour. The 

 surface is marked by a few growth-lines, but the minute sculpture, 

 if any, and the color, cannot be ascertained until fresh specimens 

 come to hand. 

 Planorbula obstructa (Morelet). 



In a reservoir four miles north of Guatemala City, Mr. Hinkley 

 took a large series of shells agreeing with the small typical form of 

 S. obstructa except in the absence of internal "teeth" in the great 

 majority of specimens, though a few show them. This form, which 

 may be called mutation anodonta, is analogous to S. dentiens var. 

 cmmaruni Morel. It measures 5 to 6 mm. in diameter and has only 

 4 whorls. There are also several other lots in the collection of the 

 Academy, from places between Guatemala and Panama. 



NERITILIA V. Martens. 



The shell is neritiniform, with smooth columellar margin. Oper- 

 culum with, on the calcareous internal face, a raised ledge along the 



3 ^9\ I ! ■x. i basal and colum- 



ellar edges, rising 

 in a point or 

 ''peg", but with- 

 out a distinct 

 "rib." Radula 

 with no central 

 tooth, three lat- 

 erals on each side, 

 the outer one, or 

 major lateral, 

 large, oblique, 



with serrate cusp. Uncini or marginal teeth are extremely numerous 

 with wide, short, serrate cusps. Genotype, N. rubida Pse. 



Fig. 7. — Teeth of Nerililia. A, lateral teeth of one side, 



with part of the first uncinus. B, the first uncinus lying 



flat, the cusps foreshortened. C, laterals of both sides 



with four uncini; 1, 2, 3, first, second and third 



or major laterals. 




220 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



The operculum is unlike that of any known Neritid snail, but the 

 chief peculiarity of the genus is in the radula. There is no central 

 tooth whatever, the arrangement being as figured by Fischer for 

 Nento'psis, the formula being oo -3-0 3- oo , that of Neritina and 

 Nerita being oo -4-1-4- go . The large inner lateral tooth is low, of 

 very irregular form, without cusp, and hard to see on account of 

 its low relief. The second lateral is also low, narrow, without cusp, 

 and interlocking with the larger lateral. The major lateral {Hut or 

 Schirm'pJatte of German authors) resembles someAvhat that of Neri- 

 tma reclivata as figured by Troschel. The uncini are exceedingly 

 numerous. Only the inner ones are drawn in the figure (fig. 7). 



While the shell has some resemblance to that of Lepyrium, the 

 operculum and radula are very different, and strikingly unlike 

 Neritina (or Theodoxus). 

 Neritilia succinea guatemalensis subsp. Fig. 8. 



The shell is Neritiform, hemispherical, solid, buff, the spire pro- 

 jecting very slightly. Embryonic shell very small, glossy; subse- 

 quent whorls not quite 2, rather dull, and smooth except for faint 

 growth lines and on the latter part some impressed lines. The 

 aperture is semi-circular, yellowish and smooth within, the lip sharp. 

 The columellar margin is straight without teeth or notches. Callus 

 flattened and plain, not very extensive, whitish towards the edge. 



Alt. 3, greatest (oblique) diam. 4.7 mm. 



Alt. 4. greatest (oblique) diam. 5 mm. 



Fig. 8. — Ncrililia succinea (jualemaloisis, sliell and three views of operculum, tlie 



middle one an oblique view of the inside from the outer 



edge, showing greatest height of the ledge. 



The operculum is slightly reddish towards the outer margin, a 

 little concave, marked with growth lines, the nucleus near the basal 

 end of the straight edge. The interior face is covered with a calcar- 

 eous layer except for a reddish border along the outer arc. The basal 

 and columellar margins have a raised ledge, which rises in a rather 

 high summit at the basal end of the straight columellar edge; this 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



221 



prominence is probably homologous with the peg of ordinary Neritid 

 opercula, and the very shght projection above and connected with 

 it may be the remnant of a rib. At each end there is an impressed 

 scar of attachment. 



Cavech River, Guatemala, at or near high tide, rare: found with 

 Neritina virginea and N. punetulata, the latter in abundance. 

 Collected by A. A. Hinkley. 



The process of the operculum is so much shorter than that of 

 N. succinea that we have possibly a new species; but veiy few 

 have been examined. 



Schasicheila hinkleyi, n. sp. Figs. 9, 10. 



The shell resembles that of S. pan?iucea Morelet except that it is 

 larger. It is thin, between chamois and cream-buff when clean; 

 densely clothed with subequal spiral cuticular threads. The last 

 whorl is indistinctly angular in front. The lip is somewhat ex- 



Fig. 9. — Schasicheila hinkleyi, shell and operculum. 



panded, rather deeply notched above (about as in S. pannucea). 

 The straight inner margin forms a raised ledge. 



Alt. 8.5, diam. 11 mm.; 3f whorls. 



The operculum has a short, obliquely projecting process at the 

 upper, and a long one, parallel to the straight margin, at the lower 

 angle; the concave outer face is papilose. 



Chama, Guatemala, collected by A. A. Hinkley. 



The operculum of S. pannucea, as figm-ed by Fischer and Crosse, 

 has no superior projection, and the lower process is far shorter than 

 in this species. 

 Cyrenoidea guatemalensis n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 9. 



The shell is orbicular, rather plump, whitish under a very pale 

 brown cuticle. Sculpture of very fine concentric striae with thin 

 cuticular edges. It resembles C. floridana Dall except that the 

 hinge plate is shorter and wider anteriorly, and the posterior end 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



of the shell is well rounded, while in floridana it is indistinctly trun- 

 cate. The interior has numerous small solid lumps. The beaks are 

 smooth. 



Length 8.7, alt. 8.3, diam. 5.2 mm. 



Livingston, Guatemala, A. A. Hinkley, 1913. Type, No. 107,532, 

 A. N. S. P. 



Eupera yucatanenenis minima n. subsp. 



The shell resembles E. yucatanensis in contour, having a very 

 narrow anterior and broad posterior end; of a uniform buff-corneous 

 tint, sometimes (seven out of thirty -one specimens examined) macu- 

 late with dark gray. It differs from E. singleyi by the narrower 

 anterior end and the more projecting beaks. 



Length 5, alt. 3.3, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Valles river, Valles, State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, on the 

 under side of rocks in shallow water, where there is a strong current 

 in mid-stream (A. A. Hinkley). 



Probably a distinct species. E. yucatanensis measures : length 1 0, 

 alt. 7, diam. 5 mm. 

 Donax mediamericana n. sp. PI. XI, flg. lo. 



A species related to D. striata L., from which it differs by being 

 smaller, comparatively longer, the alt. being three-fifths of the 

 length; the angle between the anterior dorsal border and the pos- 

 terior keel is decidedly and constantly larger; the anterior end is 

 longer and tapers rapidly. The beaks are at the posterior four- 

 tenths of the length. The keel is not so strongly expressed as in 

 D. striata, and the posterior area is much more convex. The sur- 

 face is shining, sculptured about as in D. striata. There are many 

 radial riblets on the posterior end and extending on the valve about 

 to the middle, whence they diminish gradually to the anterior end. 

 The anterior-dorsal slope is almost smooth. The riblets crenulate 

 the basal edge near the posterior angle, but less strongly than in 

 D. striata. The teeth resemble those of D. striata except that the 

 laterals are lower and much less robust. 



The color is variable: white throughout; pink with concentric 

 zones of a deeper shade, the interior pink, often violet at the ends; 

 yellow, the interior white or pink and white, with violet ends; or 

 yellow with dull bluish zones and beaks, the interior deep violet. 



Length 22. alt. 12.5, diam. 7.9 mm. cotype. 

 " 21.5, " 13. " 7.9 " 

 " 24.9, " 15. '' 8.3 " 

 " 25. " 14.9, '' 9 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



Livingston, Guatemala, collected by A. A. Hinkley. Type and 

 cotypes, No. 45178 A. N. S. P. 



This species was collected in considerable quantity by Mr. Hink- 

 ley; but although locally common, and belonging to a group in which 

 species usually have a wide distribution, I have been unable to 

 trace this shell in the literature. It is certainly distinct from D. 

 striata, the common Donax of the Mosquito Coast. It resembles 

 Roemer's figures of his D. siliqua, from an unknown locality, but 

 in that species the beaks are more posterior (at the posterior fourth) , 

 and the posterior carina is therefore steeper; the posterior area is 

 somewhat granulose and its outline more convex. Moreover, the 

 teeth differ. None of the new forms in Bertin's monograph (Nouv. 

 Arch, du Mus.) is nearly related. 



Note. — Since this article was in type I have found that Schepman, 

 in his Prosobranchia of the Siboga Expedition, Part I, 1908, p. 13, 

 has already noticed the peculiarities of Neritilia, and figured the 

 teeth of N . riihida, from Celebes. It is interesting to find American 

 species with a similar radula. 



Explanation of Plate XL 



Fig. 1. — Spiraxis guatemalensis n. sp. 



Fig. 2. — Spiraxis longior, n. sp. 



Fig. 3. — Pseudosuhulina martensiana n. sp. 



Fig. 4.- — Succinea panamensis n. sp. 



Figs. 5, 5a.— Pseudohyalina viaya n. sp. 



Fig. 6. — Guppy a Jalisco, n. sp. 



Figs. 7, 7a. — Pseudohyalina opal, n. sp. 



Fig. 8.- — Physa solidissima n. sp. 



Fig. 9.—Cyrenoidea guatevwlensis n. sp. 



Fig. 10. — Donax mediamericana n. sp. 



10 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



SCROPHULARIACEiE OF THE SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES 



BY FRANCIS W. PENNELL. 



The present revision of the species of the Scrophulariacese occur- 

 ring in the southeastern portion of the United States, from North 

 Carohna to Florida and westward to the Mississippi River, is the 

 outgrowth of a long-continued and especial interest. Nearly fifteen 

 years ago, when the Avriter was a student in the Botanical Section 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, certain prob- 

 lems in this field appeared, and have waited for the solutions now 

 proposed. Perhaps this early connection will make more fitting 

 the appearance of this paper in these Proceedings. 



During the late summers and early autumns of 1912 and 1913, I 

 collected extensively through every state of this area. This was in 

 pursuit of a monographic study of the genera now called Macran- 

 thera, Dasistoma, Afzelia, Aureolaria, Agalinis and Otophylla. Nearly 

 every species was found, and descriptions made of the form and color 

 of the corolla of each. Later, almost every herbarium of significance 

 for these species has been reviewed, and the results are presented 

 with some confidence. A preliminary paper, dealing with the 

 species of the Coastal Plain, was published in the "Torrey Bulletin" 

 in 1913, and a summary of this group for North America is now 

 awaiting publication in the Contributions from the Botanical Labor- 

 atory of the University of Pennsylvania. 



In the course of these two trips many collections were made of the 

 nearly related Buchnera, and, less consistently, attention was given 

 to other genera of the family. But, to obtain field-descriptions and 

 to collect for the first time the spring-flowering species, another trip 

 was necessary. In the Spring of 1917 I traveled as far south as Key 

 West, and from the Coast into the Appalachians. The expedition 

 was peculiarly successful, so that now, excepting for a few local species 

 of the lowland, as Herpestis rotundifolia and several oi Agalinis, or of 

 the upland, as Ilysanthes saxicola and Pe?istemon snialUi, or of the 

 mountains in late summer, as Chelone lyoni, practically every species 

 has been described from flowering plants. 



Excluding Agalinis and its allies, specimens preserved in eastern 

 herbaria only have been reviewed. I have studied all in the her- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



baria of The New York Botanical Garden, the Brooklj^n Botanic 

 Garden, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the 

 Universit}' of Pennsylvania, the United States National Museum, 

 (including the former Biltmore Herbarium), and the Charleston 

 IMuseum. In all institutions I have received the kindest attention 

 and assistance. 



The present revision follows a plan which should lead to a simple 

 and helpful presentation of our taxonomic knowledge of this family 

 within the area considered. Keys are given throughout, and these 

 are made so ample as to include all features of evident contrast 

 noted. Effort is made to group species and genera according to 

 real relationship, hence giving the keys a phylogenetic value. To 

 accomplish this, and to show what appears to have been the evo- 

 lutionary progress within this family, a rearrangement of the whole 

 has been made. This was first attempted in my " Scrophulariacese 

 of the Local Flora, ""^ but the placing of the Gratiolese as introductory 

 to the genuine Scrophulariacese now appears to me more satis- 

 factory. While of theoretic suggestiveness, it is hoped that these 

 keys may prove of practical service. 



Synonomy is given, so far as to explain the origin and application 

 of each specific and varietal name used, and to account for every 

 such name ever proposed from within this area. The original state- 

 ment as to the type or to typic distribution is quoted, and consequent 

 discussion is given. Practically all typic or isotypic^ material known 

 to occur in this country has been verified, and in Agalinis and allies 

 much of that abroad. Especially rich in types are the herbaria of 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, where Nuttall's 

 and de Schweinitz's plants are preserved, and of the Charleston 

 Museum, containing Elliott's collection. 



The statements of distribution, variability, season of flowering 

 and of fruiting, corolla-color, and other comment scarcely need 

 explanation. For Agalinis and allies, which I have collected re- 

 peatedly and over a wide range, my forthcoming monograph will 

 give a more detailed analysis of the range of each species. At present 

 for all species I am stating range in general terms, and shall trust 

 to receive corrections from workers who find this treatment partial 

 or erroneous. The detailed noting of corolla-color will be of interest 

 to students in the field. In every case, unless otherwise stated. 



iTorreya 19: 109-114. 1919. 



2 The word "isotype" is used to designate a specimen of the original collection, 

 other than the type itself . See Torreya 19: 13. 1919. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



this has been recorded from notes made with fresh flowers before me. 

 A last insertion may require more justification. This is of the 

 collection-numbers of the specimens made by me, grouping these by 

 states. While not attempting to list collections, because of space- 

 limitation, it does seem advisable to present this series, showing 

 specimens considered authentic. For Agalinis and allies my forth- 

 coming monograph will state fully the herbaria in which each may 

 be consulted; for these and for the other genera, the numbers be- 

 tween 4,000 and 6,000 may be seen in the herbarium of the Uni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia and numbers between 9,000 

 and 10,000 in that of the New York Botanical Garden. Duplicates 

 are in many collections. 



Corolla with the posterior lobes external in the bud. ' 



(ANTIRRHINOI DE.E.) 

 Tree. Leaves cordate, 15-20 cm. long. Inflorescence a panicle. 

 Sepals leathery, clothed with stellate hairs. Corolla 50-60 

 mm. long. Capsule 40 mm. long, with broadly winged over- 

 lapping seeds. I. Paulownie^. 

 Herbs. Leaves smaller. Sepals membranous (with stellate hairs 

 only in Verhascum.) Corolla smaller. Capsule smaller, and 

 seeds not overlapping. 

 Capsule septicidal or loculicidal by a simple median slit, the 

 septum rupturing or deciduous. Corolla not spurred. 

 Corolla not saccate anteriorly, not horned. 



Stigma two-lipped. Leaves usually more or less glandular- 

 punctate. Pedicels frequently bibracteolate. 



IL Gratiole^. 

 Stigma capitate. Leaves not glandular-punctate. Pedi- 

 cels not bracted (or with a varying number of bractlets 

 in Chelone). 

 Filaments five. Capsule without placental hairs. Leaves 

 opposite, ternate or alternate, with blades much 

 wider than the stem. 

 Corolla rotate, slightly zygomorphic, its lobes much 

 longer than the tube. Filaments all with fertile 

 anthers. Leaves alternate. 



IIL Verbasce^e. 

 Corolla tubular-campanulate, zygomorphic, its lobes 

 shorter than the tube. Posterior filament without 

 anther, the others didynamous. Leaves opposite 

 or ternate. IV. Chelone^. 



Filaments four. Capsule filled with tortuous hairs, be- 

 tween which are the scattered seeds. Leaves in 

 fours, sixes or eights, with rudimentary blade which 

 is narrower than the stem. V. Russelie.e. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



Corolla saccate anteriorly, and with a fine horn at the base 

 of the anterior lobes. Leaves opposite. 



VI. AngelonietE. 

 Capsule loculicidal, the septum and adjacent capsule-wall per- 

 sisting, the remaining wall splitting irregularly. Corolla 

 with a spur at the base of the anterior petal. Leaves al- 

 ternate. VII. Antirrhine^. 

 Corolla with the anterior lobes external in the bud. Herbs. 



(RHINANTHOIDEiE.) 

 Stamens two, the postero-laterals present, the antero-laterals 

 completely lost. Antero-lateral lobes of corolla external in 

 bud. Not parasitic. Sepals four, the posterior lost. Pos- 

 terior lobes of corolla completely united. 



VIII. Veronice^. 

 Stamens four, didynamous, the antero-laterals usually slightly 

 the longer. Usually, perhaps always, parasitic on the roots 

 of other plants. 

 Sepals five, alike, more or less united. Corolla-lobes all some- 

 what distinct, the two posterior spreading or broadly 

 arched; anterior lobe external in the bud. 



IX. Buchnere^. 

 Posterior sepal shorter or wanting. Corolla decidedly two- 

 lipped, the posterior lobes united and arched nearly to 

 apex, the anterior lobes usually shorter; anterior or one 

 antero-lateral lobe external in the bud. 



X. Rhinanthe^. 



I. PAULO WNIE.^ 1. Paulownia. 



II. GRATIOLE.E. 



Leaves alternate. Stamens five. Corolla essentially regular. 



Pedicel not bibracteolate. 2. Capraria. 



Leaves opposite. Stamens four or two (the posterior stamen 

 lost). Corolla more or less zygomorphic. 

 Leaves entire to serrate. Seeds brown or yellow. 



Seeds reticulate. Corolla with the ridges to the antero- 

 lateral sinuses low and not projecting beyond those 

 points (so anterior filaments simple). Posterior lobes 

 of the corolla little, if at all, shorter than the anterior. 

 Leaves uniform. Capsule longer than wide, acute or 

 obtuse, its dehiscence septicidal, or septicidal plus 

 locuHcidal. 

 Sepals all alike. Pedicels never bibracteolate. Sta- 

 mens four. First splitting of capsule loculicidal. 

 Corolla white, rotate, 3-5 mm. long, densely hirsute 

 within over bases of all lobes; lobes longer than 

 tube, the two posterior united throughout. 

 Sepals four, distinct. Lips of stigma united, 

 but line of union stigmatic. Placentae fused 

 with septum. Upper leaves alternate. 



3. Scoparia. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Corolla lavender, personate, 20-35 mm. long, pubes- 

 cent within below bases of the anterior lobes; 

 lobes shorter than tube, the two posterior united 

 about three-fourths length. Sepals five, united 

 over one-half length. Lips of stigma distinct. 

 Placentae wide, peltate in cross-section, at- 

 tached by a narrow line to the septum. Leaves 

 all opposite. 4. Mimulus. 



Sepals unequal, all distinct. Pedicels frequently bi- 

 bracteolate. First splitting of capsule septicidal. 



Pedicels bibracteolate at base. Stamens four. Cor- 

 olla pubescent within at base of posterior lobes. 



5. Mecardonia. 

 Pedicels bibracteolate at apex or not at all. 



Erect. Outer sepal not more than twice the width 

 of the innermost. Corolla 8-20 mm. long, 

 with tube much longer than the lobes. Pedi- 

 cels bibracteolate. Postero-lateral stamens 

 fertile, the antero-laterals rudimentary or 

 wanting. 

 Corolla-tube broad, within densely pubescent 

 on the posterior side. Sepals of nearly 

 uniform length. Plants relatively lax or 

 succulent, the leaves and sepals plane. 



6. Gratiola. 

 Corolla-tube very narrow, within uniformly 



short-pubescent on all sides. Sepals very 

 unequal in length. Plant stiff, the leaves 

 and sepals revolute. 7. Sophronanihe. 



Extensively repent. Outer sepal over twice the 

 width of the innermost. Corolla 3-11 mm. 

 long, with tube little longer than the lobes. 

 Stamens four. Corolla 7-11 mm. long. Outer 

 sepal not deeply cordate nor conspicuously 

 reticulate. 

 Corolla glabrous within, the throat yellow, 

 the lobes white; posterior lobes distinct. 

 No hypogynous bristles. Outer sepal 

 oval or ovate, scarcely exceeding the 

 oblong or lanceolate innermost. Capsule 

 over one-half as broad as long. Leaves 

 widening distally, very entire. Pedicels 

 reflexed in fruit. Plants inodorous. 

 Stem pubescent. Leaves spatulate-oval to 

 nearly orbicular, with seven to nine 

 longitudinal nerves. Pedicel not bi- 

 bracteolate. Sepals obtuse, scarcely 

 longer than the rounded capsule. 

 Styles distinct at apex. 



8. Ranapalus. 




V 



1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILACELPHIA. 229 



Stem glabrous. Leaves spatulate-oblong, 

 with one evident longitudinal nerve. 

 Pedicel bibracteolate. ■ Sepals acute or 

 acutish, much exceeding the acute cap- 

 sule. Styles united to apex, and stig- 

 * mas short, semi-capitate. 



9. Bramia. 

 Corolla pubescent within over bases of all 

 lobes, blue throughout; posterior lobes 

 united to apex. A circle of bristles sur- 

 rounding the base of the ovary. Outer 

 sepal slightly cordate, evidently exceed- 

 ing the linear-attenuate innermost. Cap- 

 sule less than one-half as broad as long. 

 Leaves clasping, broadest proximally, 

 crenate. Pedicels bibracteolate, spread- 

 ing in fruit. Stem pubescent. Plant 

 lemon-scented. 10. Hydrotrida. 



Stamens two, the antero-laterals lost. Corolla 

 3 mm. long, white. Outer sepal deeply 

 cordate and conspicuously reticulate. Stem 

 finely pubescent. Pedicels not bibracteo- 

 late. 11. Herpestis. 

 Leaves dimorphic; several lanceolate ones borne on the 

 abbreviated basal portion of the stems, and a pair 

 of oval ones at the apex of the slender distal portion. 

 Capsule wider than long, deeply notched, with 

 rounded flattened lobes, only dehiscing loculicidally. 



12. Am/pkianihus. 

 Seeds with fine transverse lines. Corolla with two raised 



ridges (each formed by the adherence of the filament) 



to the antero -lateral sinuses, and which project as 



knob-like processes beyong this point (the free portion 



of the filament appearing as a lateral outgrowth of 



the adherent portion). Posterior lobes of the corolla 



less than two-thirds the length of the anterior. 



Corolla violet-blue, 6-11 mm. long, the posterior lobes 



|-f length of the anterior. Postero-lateral stamens 



perfect, antero-lateral filaments without anthers. 



Style with an enlarged callose base. Sepals five, 



united at base. Capsule two-celled, oval in outline, 



2-5 mm. long. Ascending or repent. 



13. Ilysanthes. 

 Corolla pale-lavender or white, 1.5-2 mm. long. Postero- 

 lateral stamens lost, antero-lateral filaments with 

 anthers. Style filamentous to base. Sepals four, 

 the posterior lost. Capsule one-celled at maturity 

 (by loss of septum and shortening of the placentae), 

 globose, 1 mm. long. Repent. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Sepals united only at base. Corolla with posterior 

 lobes evident, united one-half length of anterior. 

 Styles distinct less than one-fourth length. Leaves 

 orbicular. 14, Glohifera. 



Sepals united |-| length, split nearly to base on the 

 anterior side. Corolla with the posterior lobes 

 lost, the tube split nearly to base on posterior 

 side. Styles distinct ^| length. Leaves elliptic- 

 obovate. 15. Hemianthus. 



Leaves bipinnatifid. Seeds pale greenish-yellow, ridged, with 

 faint transverse lines. Pedicel not bibracteolate. Cor- 

 olla lavender. Erect. 16. Leucospora. 



III. VERBASCE^ 17. Verhascu7n. 



IV. CHELONE^. 



Seeds angled or winged, maturing many to each cell. Corolla- 

 lobes uniformly colored, shorter than the tube which is 

 not conspicuously pouched at base posteriorly. Posterior 

 filament a conspicuous process. Sepals nearly or quite 

 distinct. Plants stiff, 4-20 dm. tall. 

 Corolla white or pink-red, pubescent or glabrous within, its 

 anterior lobes projecting. Sepals distinct. Sterile fila- 

 ment slender, filiform, white. 

 Corolla membranous, somewhat pubescent or glabrous 

 within over base of anterior lobes. Sterile filament as 

 long as the others, pubescent on its posterior face. 

 Anther-sacs distinct, glabrous or barbate with short 

 hairs. Sepals lanceolate to ovate, acute to acuminate. 

 Seeds wingless. Inflorescence compound, a raceme of 

 cymosely branching lax flower-clusters. 



18. Penstemon. 

 Corolla semi-fleshy, densely pubescent within over base of 



anterior lobes. Sterile filament much shorter than 

 the others, glabrous. Anther-sacs becoming confluent, 

 densely lanate. Sepals ovate-orbicular, rounded. 



Seeds winged. Inflorescence simple, a spike-like ra- 

 ceme of single flowers on short several-bracted pedicels. 



19. Chelo7ie. 

 Corolla red-brown, glabrous within, its antero-lateral lobes 



vertically projecting, the anterior lobe deflexed. Sepals 

 obviously united at base. Sterile filament shorter than 

 wide, two-lobed, red-brown. Inflorescence compound. 



20. Scrophularia. 

 Seeds rounded, smooth, maturing one to each cell. Anterior 



corolla-lobes blue, posterior white, all longer than the tube 

 which is strongl}^ pouched at base posteriorly. Posterior 

 filament a crescentic scarcely raised process. Sepals united 

 over one-third length, enclosing over half the capsule. 

 Plant lax, 1-3 dm. tall. 21. Collinsia. 



V. RUSSELIEiE. 22. Russelia. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



VI. ANGELONIE^. 23. Angelonia. 



VII. ANTIRRHINE.E. 



Plants glabrous. Flowering stems erect. Leaves linear, only 

 the uppermost small ones with axillary flowers. Pedicels 

 not over 10 mm. long. 24, Linaria. 



Plants hirsute. Flowering stems prostrate. Leaves ovate to 

 orbicular, nearly all with axillary flowers. Pedicels over 

 10 mm. long. 25. Kickxia. 



VIII. VERONICE^. 



Leaves whorled. Corolla white, its lobes shorter than the tube. 

 Capsule acute, longer than broad, not flattened. Plant 

 10-20 dm. tall. 26. Veronicastrum. 



Leaves opposite or alternate. Corolla blue or white, its lobes 

 longer than the tube. Capsule acute to deeply notched, 

 broader than long, flattened. Plants lower. 



27. Veronica. 



IX. BUCHNERE.E. 



Corolla not blue, with open orifice. Stamens all with anthers 

 two-celled, lanate. Filaments and style nearly as long as 

 or longer than the tube of the corolla. Capsule exserted 

 from the caljrx-tube. Pedicels not bracted. 

 Corolla tubular, orange, with thickened base, fleshy, semi- 

 persistent, shriveling and blackening before falling. 

 Filaments equal, long-exserted, pubescent with beaded 

 hairs. Anther-sacs closely parallel, 6-7 mm. long. Pedi- 

 cels deflexed in fruit. 28. Macranthera. 

 .Corolla with inflated throat and spreading lobes, yellow or 

 pink, membranous, soon falling. Filaments not long- 

 exserted, pubescence not beaded. Anther-sacs less than 

 5 mm. long. Pedicels erect or permanently spreading. 

 Anther-sacs glabrous or with a few bristle-like hairs at 

 apex. Stigma short, punctiform or capitate. Fila- 

 ments dilated-flattened and pubescent. Corolla yel- 

 low. 

 Corolla densely pubescent within on all sides, its lobes 

 all distinct and slightly shorter than the tube. 

 Filaments clearly didynamous, dilated and pubes- 

 cent throughout. Anther-sacs each opening by a 

 slit its entire length. Style short, thick, more or 

 less bilobed, persistent and reflexed on the capsule. 

 Pedicels 1-2 mm. long. Plant stout, 15-20 dm. 

 tall, the leaves 10-30 cm. long. 29. Dasistoma. 

 Corolla slightly pubescent within (in a ring about the 

 base of the filaments and below posterior sinus), its 

 lobes longer than the tube, the two posterior united 

 nearly one-half their length. Filaments nearly 

 equal, dilated and pubescent at base. Anther-sacs 

 each opening by a slit one -sixth to one-fourth its 

 length. Style long, slender, entire, deciduous, 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



straight. Pedicels 4-10 mm. long. Plants slender, 

 2-10 dm. tall, the leaves 1-3 cm. long. 



30. Afzelia. 

 Anther-sacs lanate on the valvular surface. Stigma linear, 

 consisting of a line down each side of the linguiform 

 style-apex. Filaments slender, not dilated, more or 

 less lanate. 

 Corolla yellow. Capsule acute to acuminate. Leaves 

 lanceolate to ovate, entire to bipinnatifid, petioled. 

 Stem stout, over 4 dm. tall. 31. Aureolaria. 



Corolla pink, with red spots within on the anterior side. 

 Capsule rounded, with a mucro. Leaves filiform 

 to lanceolate, entire or auriculate-lobed at base, 

 sessile. Stem usually slender. 

 Stem ascending-scabrous to glabrous. Leaves linear 

 to filiform, entire. Pedicels over 1 mm. long. 

 Calyx-lobes linear to subulate, shghtly longer to 

 much shorter than the tube. Anther-sacs of both 

 pairs of stamens uniform. Capsule globose to 

 globose-ovoid, 3-7 mm. long. Seeds closely reticu- 

 late. 32. Agalinis. 

 Stem retrorse-hispid. Leaves lanceolate, usually auric- 

 ulate-lobed at base. Pedicels less than 1 mm. 

 long. Calyx-lobes ovate, longer than the tube. 

 Anther-sacs of posterior stamens shorter. Cap- 

 sule broadly ovate in outline, 10-13 mm. long. 

 Seeds reticulate with raised ridges. 



33. Otophylla. 

 Corolla purple-blue or white, salverform, the tube very narrow 

 and densely pilose within, the lobes widely spreading. 

 Stamens each with but one anther-sac developed. Fila- 

 ments and style less than one-half length of corolla-tube. 

 Capsule mostly or quite enclosed within calyx-tube. Pedi- 

 cels bibracteolate. 34. Buchnera. 

 X. RHINANTHE^. 



Posterior sepal shorter than the others. Pedicels bibracteolate 

 at apex. Capsule turgid, septicidal, only tardily slightly 

 loculicidally dehiscent. Seeds linear, fiat, 2 mm. long. 



35. Schwalhea. 

 Posterior sepal wanting. Pedicels not bracted. Capsule flat- 

 tened, loculicidal, splitting through septum. Seeds turgid. 



Corolla with posterior lobes projecting, not hooded at apex, 

 the anterior lobes very short, thickened, deep-green. 

 Capsule cylindric, equally two-celled, in dehiscence split- 

 ting on both posterior and anterior sides. Seeds many, 

 reticulate. Bracts foliaceous, distally scarlet. 



36. Castilleja. 

 Corolla with posterior lobes arched, hooded at apex, the 



anterior lobes membranous, flat, colored. Capsule ensi- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



form, unequally two-celled, splitting only on the posterior 

 side. Seeds few, not reticulate. Bracts not colored. 

 Corolla yellow or pink throughout, the anterior lip not 

 raised into a palate. Anthers glabrous. Seeds matur- 

 ing more than four to a capsule. Sepals of each 

 side united nearly or quite to apex. Leaves bipin- 

 natifid-lobed. 37. Pedicular is. 



Corolla white, the anterior lip raised into a yellow densely 

 pubescent palate. Anthers pubescent. Seeds matur- 

 ing two to four to a capsule. Sepals united at base 

 only, the two postero -laterals longer. Leaves lanceo- 

 late, entire or setaceous-toothed near base. 



38. Melampyrum. 



1. PAULOWNIA Siebold and Zuccarini. 



PaulowninSieh. andZucc, Fl. Jap. 1: 25. pi. 10. 1835. Type species, P. 

 imperialis S. & Z., of Japan. 



1. Paulownia tomentosa (Thunb.) Baill. 



Of Japan. Is occasionally found, along roads, railways, etc. A 

 frequently cultivated tree. 



2. CAPRARIA Linne. 

 Capraria L., Sp. PI. 628. 1753. 



Type species, C. biflora L. 



1. Capraria biflora L. 



Capraria biflora L., 1. c. 628. 1753. "Habitat in Curassao." Specimens 

 from Curagao seen in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Sandy soil, mostly along the beach, somewhat in waste ground 

 and on edges of hammocks inland, subtropical Florida. A wide- 

 spread species of lowland Tropical America. Very variable; varies 

 with us mainly in size and proportions of leaf, and in the length of 

 the hairs on the stem and pedicels, such hairs in the plant consid- 

 ered to be typical are entirely wanting. The pubescent state may 

 be called forma hirta Loes., in Bull. Herb. Boiss., ser. II, 3: 284. 

 1903. (''Habitat in Guatemala, in dept. Chiquimula in ruderalibus 

 ad S. Juan Ermita — Sel[erJ n. 3314." Isotype seen in herbarium 

 New York Botanical Garden.) 



Flowering and fruiting probably throughout the year, although 

 all specimens seen were collected between November and June. 

 Corolla white or violet-tinged and slightly spotted with violet within 

 throat. Normally the five stamens are fertile, but any, and as 

 many as four, may become rudimentary. Examination of fresh 

 flowers shows that both in Capraria and Scoparia the posterior 

 lobes of the corolla are external in the bud, thus confirming the 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



impression gained from distribution and the nature of the glands 

 in the leaves of the latter, that these genera belong to the Gratioleae. 

 Pennell (Florida)— 9559, 9598, 9610, 9633. 



3. SCOP ARIA Linng. 

 Scopiria L., Sp. PI. 116. 1753. 



Type species, S. dulcis L. 



1. Scoparia dulcis L. 



Scoparia dulcis L., 1. c. 116. 1753. "Habitat in Jamaica, Curassao 

 . . . Hort. Cliff. 320." ex L., Hort. Cliff. 320. 1737. "Crescit in 

 Curassao & Jamaica." No specimens from Curagao seen, but the plant 

 here considered unquestionably occurs there. 



Gratiola micrantha Nutt., Amer. Jour. Sci. 5: 287. 1822. "Collected in 

 East Florida, during October and November, 1821, by A. Ware, Esq." 

 V Type, collected by Nathaniel A. Ware, seen in Herb. Academy of Natural 



Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Scoparia grandiflora Nash, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 23: 105. 1896. "Col- 

 lected in the flatwoods at Tampa [Florida], where it was quite frequent. 

 [G. V. Nash] No. 2417." Type seen in Herb. Columbia University at 

 the New York Botanical Garden. I have collected this at Tampa, my 

 number 9643. Scoparia dulcis varies considerably in size of corolla, 

 but no other character correlates with this, nor do larger-flowered plants 

 occur in an environment distinct ecologically or geographically. Wide 

 gradation in corolla-size may be found within one colony. 



Waste places, cultivated ground, especially in sandy soil, southern 

 Georgia to southeastern Texas and southward; wholly within the 

 Coastal Plain. A wide -spread weed of lowland Tropical America. 



Flowering and fruiting in subtropical Florida throughout the 3'ear, 

 northward flowering in summer (from about May to September), 

 and soon ripening fruit. Corolla white, at times the lobes slightly 

 pinkish. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9643, 9656, 9678, 9702. (Louisiana)— 4254. 



4. MIMULUS Linne. 

 Mimulus L., Sp. PI. 634. 1753. 



Type species, M. ringens L. 



Leaf-blades ovate, petioled. Angles of stem slightly winged. Pedi- 

 cels stout, in fruit 5-10 mm. long. Calyx-lobes setaceous- 

 tipped, 1-2 mm. long. Corolla 35 mm. long. Seeds pale- 

 yellow. 1. M. alatus. 

 Leaf-blades lanceolate, not petioled. Angles of stem not winged. 

 Pedicels slender, in fruit 30-60 mm. long. Calyx-lobes lanceo- 

 late, 3-5 mm. long. Corolla 20-30 mm. long. Seeds brownish 

 yellow. 

 Cauline leaves with the blades narrowed at the base, not clasping. 

 Corolla 20-25 mm. long. 2. M. minthodes. 

 Cauline leaves with the blades broader and clasping at the base. 

 Corolla 25-30 mm. long. 3. M. ringens. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



1. Mimulus alatus Ait. 



Minmlus alatus Ait., Hort. Kew. 2: 361. 1789. "Nat. of North America. 

 Introd. 1783, by Mr. William Malcolm." 



Wet woods and shaded river-bottoms, loam soil, throughout the 

 area above the Fall line, but not extending into the higher Appa- 

 lachians; and along river-bottoms in the Coastal Plain. Ranges 

 from Connecticut to Ontario and Kansas, south to northern Florida 

 (along the Apalachicola River), Mississippi and Oklahoma. 



Flowering from late July to late August, probably ripening fruit 

 in September and October. Corolla lavender pink, within throat 

 essentially as in M. ringens but the spots are smaller and the coloring 

 fainter. 



2. Mimulus minthodes Greene. 



Mimulus minthodes Greene. Leaflets Bot. Obs. & Crit. 2:1. 1909. "The 

 type specimens are in U. S. Herb, and were collected at Birmingham, 

 Ala., Aug., 1888." Type seen in United States National Herbarimn. 



Meadows, northern Georgia and northern Alabama; Piedmont 



region. 



Not seen growing. Possibly not distinct from M. ringens. 



3. Mimulus ringens L. 



Mimulus ringens L., Sp. PI. 634. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada 

 . . . Hort. ups. 176. t. 2." In the Hortus Upsalensis 176, pl. 1, 1748, 

 Linne described and figured our plant. 



Swales and along streams in woodland, in loam, through' the area 

 above the fall line, reaching at least to 4400 feet altitude in the 

 southern Appalachians, mostly more common northward ; apparently 

 not descending into the Coastal Plain. Ranges from Nova Scotia 

 to Minnesota, south to upper South Carolina, northern Florida^ and 

 Kansas. 



Flowering from mid July to late August, fruiting in September 

 and October. Corolla lavender, paler externally, within on anterior 

 side two ridges which distally bear purple-red spots and proximally 

 two yellow areas mottled with faint brownish patches. 



5. MECARDONIA Ruiz and Pavon. 

 Mecardonia R. and P., Syst. Veg. Fl. Per. et Chil. 164. 1798. 

 Type species, M. ovata Ruiz & Pavon, of Peru. 



Corolla white, its posterior lobes united ^-f their length. Outer 

 sepals lanceolate, rarely more than twice width of inner. Leaf- 

 blades prevailingly lanceolate, conspicuously cuneate at base. 

 Erect or somewhat diffuse. 



^ Reported from Quincy, Florida, by A. W. Chapman in West. Jour. Med. & 

 Surg. 3: 473. 1845. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Leaf-blades mostly oblanceolate, long-cuneate at base. Pedicels 

 mostly over 15 mm. long. Corolla -lobes less widely spread- 

 ing. 

 Main stem-leaves 3-4.5 cm. long. Outer sepals 6-8 mm. long. 

 Corolla about 10 mm. long. Plant branched above, usually 

 3-4 dm. tall, erect or nearly so. 



1. M. acuminata. 

 Main stem-leaves 1.3-2 cm. long. Outer sepals 5-6 mm. long. 

 Corolla 7-8 mm. long. Plant much branched from the 

 base, 1-2 dm. tall, diffusely spreading and ascending. 



la. M. acuminata peninsidaris. 

 Leaf -blades ovate, more shortly cuneate at base, 1-1.7 cm. long. 

 Pedicels mostly 8-12 mm. long. Corolla 7-8 mm. long, its 

 lobes relatively widely spreading. Plant apparently laxly 

 ascending. lb. M. acuminata brevifolia. 



Corolla yellow, its posterior lobes united nearly to apex. Outer 

 sepals ovate, more than four times width of inner. Leaf-blades 

 often ovate, more shortly cuneate at base. Procumbent or 

 ascending. 

 Corolla lemon-yellow, 6 mm. long, glandular-puberulent within. 

 Outer sepals broadly ovate. Pedicels 1-2 times the length 

 of the ovate bracts. 2. M. procumbens. 



Corolla deep lemon -yellow, 7-8 mm. long, short-pubescent within. 

 Outer sepals ovate. Pedicels several times the length of the 

 lanceolate -ovate bracts. 3. M. tenuis. 



1. Mecardonia acuminata (Walt.) Small. 



Gratiola acuminata Walt., Fl. Carol. 61. 1788. Type not verified, but 

 description evidently of plant here considered. Doubtless from lower 

 South Carolina where this plant is common. 



Gerardia cuneifoUa Pursh, Fl. Amer. Sept. 422. 1814. "In Georgia. 

 Bartram. v. s. in Herb. Banks." Type not verified. Description appears 

 to be of our plant, but the statement is made that the leaves are alternate 

 above while in acuminata they are opposite throughout. 



Matourea nigrescens Benth., Comp. Bot. Mag. I: 173. 1836. " (Gi-atiola 

 acuminata Ell., non Pursh.)" ex Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. & Ga. 1 : 15. 

 1816. "Grows in ditches and wet places, extensively diffused." Elliott 

 interpreted correctly the species of Walter, but Pursh had confused with 

 this Gratiola virginiana L. 



Mecardonia acuminnta (Walt.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1065, 1337. 1903. 



Moist sandy loam, or heavier loam soil, usually near streams, in 

 pineland or deciduous woodland, frequent or common in most por- 

 tions of the Coastal Plain (although absent from such an area as 

 the Altamaha Grit of southern Georgia), extending to Cape Canaveral 

 in southern Florida although through the Everglade Keys mostly 

 replaced by var. peninsularis; and also reaching the mountain val- 

 leys of western North Carolina and northern Georgia. Ranges from 

 Maryland to Florida and eastern Texas, extending inland to west- 

 ern Kentucky, southern Missouri and eastern Oklahoma. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Flowering from May to September, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla white, within with longitudinal pink veins on the posterior 

 side. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4088. (Florida)— 9658. (Louisiana)— 4283. 



la. Mecardonia acuminata peninsularis Pennell, var. nov. 



Plants much branched from the base, diffusely spreading and 

 ascending. Main stem-leaves oblanceolate, long-cuneate . at base, 

 1.3-2 cm. long. Outer sepals 5-6 mm. long. Corolla 7-8 mm. 

 long. 



Type, in hammocks and pine-lands, Black Point, below Cutler, 

 Florida, collected in fruit and late flower, November 13, 1903, J. 

 K. Small & J. J. Carter 824, in Herb. New York Botanical Gar- 

 den; isotype in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Moist places, pine-land, hammocks and ev'erglades, southern 

 Florida. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9542. 

 lb. Mecardonia acuminata brevifolia Pennell, var. nov. 



Plants apparently laxly ascending, slightly branched, 1-4 dm. 

 tall. Main stem-leaves ovate, cuneate at base, 1-1.7 cm. long. 

 Outer sepals 5-6 mm. long. Corolla 7-8 mm. long. 



Type, Gulfport, Mississippi, collected in flower September 8, 1900, 

 F. E. Lloyd & S. M. Tracy 94; in Herb. New York Botanical Gar- 

 den. 



Moist places in longleaf pine-land, southern Georgia and northern 

 Florida to southern Texas. 



2. Mecardonia procumbens (Mill.) Small. 



Erinus procmnbens Mill., Gard. Diet. ed. VIII. n. 6. 1768. "... 

 Houst. MSS." Type not known to exist, but description appears to be 

 of the plant here considered. Houston collected in tropical America. 



Mecardonia procumhens (Mill.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1065, 1338. 1903. 



Moist soil, loam or sand, meadows and edges of hammocks, sub- 

 tropical Florida.^ A wide-spread weed of lowland Tropical America, 

 perhaps introduced into our flora. 



Flowering and fruiting probably throughout the year. Corolla 

 externally greenish-yellow, within on the lobes lemon-yellow, and 

 with more or less evident longitudinal dark veins on the posterior 

 side. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9549. 



^Reported as "Monniera chamaedryoides peduncularis" by Mohr, Contrib. 

 Nat. Herb. 6: 721. 1901, as occurring in Alabama from "Upper Division Coast 

 Pine belt to Coast Plain." Surely confused with a form of Mecardonia acumi- 

 nata. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



3. Mecardonia tenuis Small. 



Mecardonia tenuis Small, FI. S. E. Un. St. 1065, 1338. 1903. "Type, 

 Key West, Fla., Blodgett, in Herb. C. U." Type seen in Herb. Columbia 

 University at the Nev/ York Botanical Garden. 



Light loam over limestone, hammock and thickets, Key West, 

 Florida Keys, Subtropical Florida. Endemic, but so close to M. 

 procumhens and to M. peduncularis (Benth.) Small of Texas that 

 the actual relationship of these species should be more fully investi- 

 gated in the field. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9555, 9599. 



6. GRATIOLA Linne. 



Gratiola L., Sp. PI. 17. 1753. 



Type species, G. officinalis L., of Europe. 



Corolla slightly exceeding calyx, externally glabrous. Capsule 

 nearly pyramidal, acuminate. Pedicels very short. 

 Plant pubescent with several-celled hairs. Leaves 1-2 cm. long; 

 bracts usually much exceeding the flowers. 



1. G. pilosa. 

 Plant glabrous. Leaves .8-1.2 cm. long; bracts not exceeding the 

 flowers. la. G. pilosa epilis. 



Corolla more than twice as long as the caljrx, externally more or less 

 puberulent. Capsule broader, acute to rounded. Pedicels 

 longer. Stem glabrous or puberulent with one-celled hairs, 

 these frequently gland-bearing. 

 Pedicels exceeding 10 mm. in length. Corolla within throat on 

 posterior side densely pubescent with knobbed hairs. Cap- 

 sule ovate in outline, 1-5 mm. long, equaled or exceeded by 

 the sepals. Seeds .3-.5 mm. long, semi-globose to oblong. 

 Capsule 1-3 mm. long, much exceeded by the sepals. Stem- 

 leaves clasping by a broad base, usually at least the upper 

 with resinous dots. Roots perennial, slender. Stoloni- 

 ferous. 

 Corolla golden-yellow throughout. Capsule 3 mm. long. 

 Seeds brown. Leaves with blackish glandular dots. 



2. G. georgiana. 

 Corolla with throat dull-yellow, the lobes white. Capsule 

 1-2 mm. long. Seeds paler. Leaves with brown glandu- 

 lar dots, these usually more sparsely distributed. 

 Leaf-blades linear-lanceolate to lanceolate, usually with a 

 few coarse serratures. Sepals linear to linear-subu- 

 late. Capsule 1-2 mm. long. 3. G. ramosa. 

 Leaf-blades ovate, with many usually finer serratures. 

 Sepals lanceolate to oblong-lanceolate. Capsule 2 

 mm. long. 4. G. viscidula. 

 Capsule 4-5 mm. long, about equaled by the sepals. Stem- 

 leaves narrowed to a sessile or slightly clasping base, not 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



resinous-dotted. Roots apparently annual, the main root 

 thick, and giving off numerous fibers. Not stoloniferous. 

 Corolla of earlier flowers 8-12 mm. long, not lined within, 

 pubescent below anterior lobes with unknobbed hairs. 

 Leaves prevailingly lanceolate. 5. G. neglecta. 



Corolla of earlier flowers 15-20 mm. long, purple-lined within, 

 pubescent below anterior lobes with knobbed hairs. 

 Leaves prevailingly ovate. Pedicels more slender and 

 usually longer. 6. G. flori'dana. 



Pedicels less than 10 mm. long. Corolla within throat on pos- 

 terior side pubescent with unknobbed hairs. Capsule glo- 

 bose, 5-6 mm. long, slightly exceeding the sepals. Seeds 

 .7 mm. long, linear. Leaves and root as in neglecta. 



7. G. virginiana. 



1. Gratiola pilosa Michx. 



Gratiola pilosa Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 1: 7. 1803. "Hab. in Carolinae 

 inferioris uliginosis [A. Michaux]." Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Moist or rather dry sandy pineland, common nearly throughout 

 the Coastal Plain, south to central Florida; occasional inland, reach- 

 ing the mountain -valleys of North Carolina and northern Alabama. 

 Ranges from New Jersey to Florida, central Arkansas and eastern 

 Texas. 



Flowering from late May to September, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla white, throat distally with faint bluish-purple lines on all 

 petals. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 10172. (Florida)— 9671, 9682, 9709. (Ala- 

 bama)— 9721. 



la. Gratiola pilosa epilis Permell, var. nov. 



Plant throughout glabrous, or the sepals rarely with a few hairs. 

 Leaves shorter, less evidently serrate. Corolla 7-9 mm. long. 

 Calyx-lobes 4.5 mm. long, scarcely exceeding the capsule. Capsule 

 browner than in the species. 



Type, Myers, Lee Co., Florida, collected in flower and fruit July- 

 August, 1900, A. S. Hitchcock 258, in United States National Her- 

 barium; isotype in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Around ponds, southern Florida. Only the above specimens seen. 



2. Gratiola georgiana Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem fleshy, glabrous, repent, ascending, 2-4 dm. long. Leaf- 

 blades lanceolate to lanceolate-ovate, 1.5-2.5 cm. long, serrate to 

 nearly entire, acute or acutish. Pedicels 7-15 mm. long. Caljrx- 

 lobes linear or nearly so, 4-8 mm. long. Corolla 8-12 mm. long, 

 bright yellow. Capsule not seen. 



17 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Type, Augusta, Georgia, collected in flower by Dr. William Bald- 

 win; in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Wet pine-barrens, North Carolina^ to Florida and Alabama; also 

 in southern Delaware. Not seen growing. 



This has been confused with the northern Gratiola aurea Pursh, 

 of which perhaps it should be counted a southern variety. They may 

 be separated as follows: 



Plant erect or repent-ascending, 1-3 dm. long. Leaf-blades linear 

 to lanceolate, frequently denticulate distally. Pedicels 10-25 

 mm. long, usually equahng or exceeding the bracts. 



G. aurea. 



Plant repent and ascending, 2-4 dm. long. Leaf-blades lanceo- 

 late to lanceolate-ovate, usually more uniformly serrate. Pedi- 

 cels 7-15 mm. long, shorter than the bracts. G. georgiana. 



Beside the collection of Baldwin, Rugel 99 (U, Y) from an unstated 

 locality on Florida, and also collected very many years ago, is this 

 species. The plant is also well described by Elliott, "Sketch Bot. 

 S. C. & Ga.," 1: 13. 1816. It should be re-collected. 



3. Gratiola ramosa Walt. 



Gratiola ramosa Walt., Fl. Carol. 61. 1788. Type not verified, but de- 

 scriptive of this plant common in lower South Carolina. 



Gratiola quadridentata Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 1: 6. 1803. "Hab. in 

 Carolina inferiore [A. Michaux]." Type not verified, but description 

 sufficiently distinctive. 



Moist or wet sandy pineland, edge of ponds, common in the Coastal 

 Plain, South Carolina to southern Florida, west to southern Mississ- 

 ippi. Varies with frequently broader leaves inland, and with shorter 

 fleshier leaves in southern Florida. In the spring erect, but later 

 in the season the stems become lax, long and much branched. 



Flowering from March to September, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla with tube dull-yellow, the lobes dull-white, the tube with 

 longitudinal brown lines. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9523. (Florida)— 9657, 9669. 



4. Gratiola viscidula Pennell. 



Gratiola viscosa Schwein., Le Conte, Ann. Lye. N. Y. 1: 106. 1824. "In- 

 habits Virginia, and the upper parts of North Carolina." The plant 

 now considered, although the description appears inaccurate in stating 

 that the capsule is as long as the sepals. Type, from Salem, North Caro- 

 lina, seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Not G. 

 viscosa Hornem., Enum. PI. Hort. Hafn. 19. 1807. 



Gratiola viscidula Pennell, Torreya 19: 145. 1919. New name for G. 

 viscosa Schwein. 



6 Reported as "Gratiola aurea Muhl." in Hyam's "Flora of North Carohna," 

 N. C. Coll. A. & M. Arts, Bull. 164: 327. 1891; and in Mohr, Contrib. Nat. Herb. 

 6: 720. 1901, as from the Coast Plain of southern Alabama. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Swales and along streams, above the fall-line, through the Pied- 

 mont, ascending to the valleys of the southern Appalachians. Dela- 

 ware to northern Georgia and eastern Tennessee. 



Flowering from late June to September, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Not seen growing. 



5. Gratiola neglects Torr. 



Gratiola neglecta Torr., Cat. PI. N. Y. 89. 1819. "Within thirty miles of 

 the City of New York." Type probably seen in herbarium of- Columbia 

 University at the New York Botanical Garden. For discussion see 

 Torreya 19: 146. 1919. 



Wet loam, usually in deciduous woodland, frequent through the 

 Piedmont, both east and west of the Appalachians; apparently not 

 in the Coastal Plain, nor ascending appreciably into the mountains. 

 Ranges across the continent northward, south in the East to north- 

 ern Georgia and northern Alabama. 



Flowering from April to June, and soon ripening fruit. Corolla 

 with tube greenish-yellow, the lobes white, at times pinkish-tinged. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9509. (Alabama)— 9760, 9769, 9784. 



6. Gratiola floridana Nutt. 



Gratiola floridana Nutt., Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 7: 103. 1834. "Hab. 

 near Chipola, in West Florida [in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences]." 

 Type, labeled "Gratiola * grandiflora," collected in 1830, seen in Herb. 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Gratiola macrantha Chapm., Fl. S. Un. St. ed. III. 311. 1897. "Cool 

 springs near Quincy, Middle Florida." Distinguished from G. floridana 

 by having the staminodia present and relatively conspicuous. In this 

 species, as in G. neglecta, the .size of the rudiments of the antero-lateral 

 stamens is quite variable. 



Muddy banks and in wet woods, loam soil, in river-bottoms in the 

 Coastal Plain, southern Georgia, southern Alabama and northern 

 Florida; apparently occurring inland to the base of the mountains 

 of northeastern Georgia and northeastern Alabama. 



Flowering in April and May, fruiting in May and June. Corolla 

 w'hite, or pinkish on the lobes, yellow over base of the posterior 

 lobes, and marked with longitudinal fine purple lines. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9704. 



7. Gratiola virginiana L. 



Gratiola virginiana L., Sp. PI. 17. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." For 

 discussion of the type of this see S. F. Blake in Rhodora 20: 65. 1918. 

 . Gratiola sphaerocarpa Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 1: 14. 1816. "Grows 

 in ponds 4 miles from Charleston [South Carolina], on the neck." De- 

 scription distinctive, made from plants which flowered in the autumn. 

 Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum. 



Gratiola megalocarpa Ell., 1. c. 16. 1816. "Grows in ditches and pools 

 from Pennsylvania to Carolina. Pursh." Ex Pursh, Fl. Amer. Sept. 12. 

 1814. "In ditches and pools: Pensylvania to Carohna . . . v. v." 

 With a plant of his own, Pursh combined an account of Walter's Gh-atiola 

 acuminata; his own plant would appear to have been the species now 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



considered, although any extant type should be examined. Specimens 

 from Salem, North Carolina, collected by Schweinitz and labeled "mega- 

 locarpa," seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Gratiola caroliniensis Le Conte, Ann. Lye. N. Y. 1: 105. 1824. "In- 

 habits in wet grounds from Carolina to Florida." Description sufficiently 

 distinctive. Probable type, collected by Le Conte at " Shallowford," 

 seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Wet loam, in shade, usually along streams, common through the 

 Piedmont, not ascending into the Appalachians; and through the 

 Coastal Plain south to central Florida. Ranges from New Jersey 

 to Florida and Texas, inland in the Mississippi Valley to Illinois and 

 Missouri. 



Flowering from March to May, fruiting May to June. Corolla 

 white, within with longitudinal purple lines, more pronounced on 

 posterior side. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9506. (Florida)— 9705, 9714. (Alabama)— 

 9726. 



7. SOPHRONANTHE Bentham. 



Sophronanthe Bentham; Lindl., Nat. Syst. Bet., ed. II, 445. 1836. 



Type species, S. hispida Benth. 



1. Sophronanthe hispida Benth. 



Sophronanthe hispida Benth., 1. c. 445. 1836. "The plant was gathered 

 by Drummond at Apalachicola." Isotype, Drummond 20, seen in Herb. 

 Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Gratiola subulata Baldwin; Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 405. 1846. "In 

 Florida ( . . . Baldwin! . . • )•" Specimen collected by Bald- 

 win, labeled "W. Florida, St. Marys river, south side," so probably an 

 isotype, seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Dry sandy pineland, Coastal Plain, southern Georgia to Louisiana, 

 south through the Florida peninsula to Dade County. 



Flowering from late April to September, and soon ripening fruit; 

 in southern Florida flowering and fruiting throughout the year. 

 Corolla with tube externally yellowish-white, on lobes and within 

 white. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9528. (Florida)— 9660, 9676, 9689, 9700. 



8. RANAPALUS Kellogg. 

 Ranapalus Kellogg, Proc. Calif. Acad. 7: 113. 1877. 

 Type species, R. eisenii Kell., of California. 



1. Ranapalus rotundifolius (Michx.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Monniera rotundifolia Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 2: 22. 1803. "Hab. in 

 regione Illinoensi [A. Michaux]." Type not verified, but description 

 sufficiently distinctive. 



Aquatic in shallow mud-bottomed open ponds, central and west- 

 ern Tennessee. Through the Mississippi Valley from Indiana and 

 Tennessee to North Dakota, eastern Colorado and northern Texas. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Flowering from July to September, and soon ripening fruit. Cor- 

 olla with throat yellow within, the lobes white. 



9. BR AMI A Lamarck. 

 Bramia Lam., Encyc. Meth., Bot. 1 : 459. 1785. 

 Type species, B. indica Lam., of India. 



1. Bramia monnieri (L.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Lysimachia monnieri L., Cent. PI. 2: 9. 1756. "Habitat in America 

 meridionali. Hallman." D. Z. Hallman sent to Linne specimens from 

 Spain, so it would appear that the type of this was probably transmitted 

 through him from some source in Spanish America. 



Monniera cuneifolia Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 2: 22. 1803. "Hab. in locis 

 mari inundatis Carolinae inferioris [A. Michaux]." Description suf- 

 ficiently distinctive. Type of the genus Habershamia Raf., Neogyn. 2. 

 1825. 



Bramia monnieria (L.) Drake, Fl. Folyn. Franc. 142. 1892. 



Sandy beaches, especially where subject to inundation, common 

 within tidewater, both where brackish and where fresh, growing also 

 in pools in the sand dunes, in the coastal pine-land, and inland up 

 the river-courses as far as Lake Okeechobee; on and near the coast, 

 North Carolina to Florida and Texas. A widespread maritime 

 plant of both the New World and Old World Tropics. Variable 

 in size of its vegetative parts, and even of its flowers, plants every- 

 way smaller occurring especially in drier situations and around the 

 pineland pools. 



Flowering in southern Florida throughout the year, northward 

 from April to November; soon ripening fruit. Corolla with tube 

 yellowish within, elsewhere white, or frequently tinged with pink. 

 Anthers dark-purple. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9534, 9537, 9665. 



10. HYDROTRIDA Small. 

 Hydrotrida Small, Fl. Miami 165. 1913. 

 Type species, Oholaria caroliniana Walt. 



1. Hydrotrida caroliniana (Walt.) Small. 



Oholaria caroliniana Walt., Fl. Carol. 166. 1788. Type not verified, but 

 description sufficiently distinctive. Doubtless from lower South Caro- 

 lina, a district where the species now considered is frequent. 



Monniera amplexicaidis Michx.. Fl. Bor. Amer. 2:22. 1803. "Hab. in 

 fossis, stagnis Carolinae [A. Michaux]." Type not verified, but descrip- 

 tion suflSciently distinctive. 



Monniera crenulata Small, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 22: 46. 1895. "Found 

 by Mr. A. H. Curtiss, growing in the bottom of ditches between Jackson- 

 ville and Trout Creek, Florida, on July 13, 1893." Type seen in Herb. 

 Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. This rep- 

 resents but a robust, broad-leaved state of the species. 



Hydrotrida caroliniana (Walt.) Small, Fl. Miami 165. 1913. 



Aquatic in shallow water, sandy soil, edges of ponds and in small 

 streams, in pineland in the Coastal Plain, North Carolina to Florida 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



and Louisiana, south through the Florida peninsula to the Ever- 

 glades. 



Flowering from May to September, and soon ripening fruit; in 

 southern Florida flowering and fruiting throughout the year. Cor- 

 olla uniformly sky blue. 



In the herbarium of Columbia University is a memorandum 

 description of this by Boykin. He proposed it as a new genus, but 

 his name "Beyrichia" was preoccupied, and unfortunately no name 

 was substituted and his suggestion has Iain unheeded. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9675, 9683. 



11. HERPESTIS Gaertner. f. 

 Herpestis Gaertn. f., Fruct. et Sem. PI. 3: 186. 1807. 



Type species, H. rotundifolia Gaertn. f. 



1. Herpestis rotundifolia Gaertn. f. 



Herpestis rotundifolia Gaertn. f., 1. c. 186. pi. 214. 1807. "E America 

 septentrionali a Dno Bosc, ex coUectione Desfontaines." Bosc collected 

 in Carolina, and his plant, as shown from the parts described, is certainly 

 the species now considered. While Gaertner was doubtless influenced 

 in his selection of a name by Michaux' Monniera rotundifolia, 1803, Bosc's 

 plant is stated to be only perhaps this. Moreover Michaux' name is not 

 connected with the phrase "Herpestis rotundifolia," so that we must 

 consider this combination as here originating for the plant of Bosc. This 

 has been confused with Gratiola repens Sw., a species of Ranapalus. 



In shallow water, muddy shores, within the Coastal Plain, Mary- 

 land to Florida. Also in the West Indies. Very few collections are 

 known, and in our area only the following stations have been noted : 

 Wilmington, North Carolina; Ogeechee, Georgia; Jacksonville and 

 Eustis, Florida. While doubtless often overlooked, the plant is 

 certainly of scattered and rare occurrence. 



Flowering at least from July to September, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Not seen growing. 



12. AMPHIANTHUS Torrey. 



A?nphianthns Torr., Ann. Lye. N. Y. 4: 82. 1837. 

 Type species, A. pusillus Torr. 



1. Amphianthus pusillus Torr. 



Amphianthus pusillus Torr., 1. c. 82. 1837. "Hab. — In small excavations 

 on flat rocks, where the soil is wet during the flowering season; Newton 

 County, Georgia . . . Dr. M. C. Leavenworth!" Type seen in 

 Herb. Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



"Growing in water in very shallow depressions in granite rock," 

 Stone Mountain and nearby granite hills of Dekalb and Newton 

 counties, central Georgia. 



Flowering in April, fruiting in May. Not seen growing. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Apparently this plant only flourishes during wet seasons. On 

 April 25, 1917, I searched most carefully for it on the summit and 

 slopes of Stone Mountain (Canbj^'s record of May 15, 1869, specifies 

 "the summit"), but found no trace whatever. The season had been 

 dry and there were no pools. 



A remarkable plant with a unique dimorphic habit. It should be 

 carefully studied living in order to assist in discovering its real 

 relationship. Certainly aberrant in Gratiolece, it may possibly be- 

 long to the Vej-onicece, as is suggested by the fruit. This was long 

 ago the thought of Dr. Leavenworth as shown by his notes preserved 

 in the herbarium of Columbia University. 



13. ILYSANTHES Raflnesque. 



Ilysanthes Raf., Ann. Nat. 13. 1820. 



Type species, 7. riparia Raf., of the banks of the Ohio. 



Stem erect or ascending. Leaf-blades more or less elongate, the 

 lower ones narrowed at the base. 

 Pedicels stout, shorter than the subtending bracts. Sepals usually 



as long as the capsule. 1. I. duhia. 



Pedicels filiform, longer than the subtending bracts. Sepals 

 shorter than the capsule. 

 Upper leaves or bracts but slightly smaller than the lower. 

 Pedicels erect or ascending (or in fruit rarely slightly re- 

 flexed). Leaves mainly cauline. 

 Stem-leaves partially clasping, all opposite, none of the leaves 

 obviously punctate. Sepals decidedly shorter than the 

 capsules. 2. I. inaequalis. 



Stem-leaves sessile or narrowed at base, frequently in threes, 

 the leaves all evidently glandular-punctate. Sepals 

 scarcely shorter than the capsule. 3. I. saxicoJa. 



Upper leaves or bracts reduced to scales. Pedicels conspicu- 

 ously reflexed in fruit. Leaves mainly basal. 



4. I. rejrada. 

 Stem repent or prostrate throughout. Leaf-blades orbicular or ovate- 

 orbicular, rounded at the base and closely sessile. 



5. I. grandiflora. 

 1. Ilysanthes dubia (L.) Barnhart. 



Gratiola duhia 'L.,^\).'P\.\7. 1753. "Habitat in Virginiae aquosis. . . . 

 Gron. vii-g. 129." Type, Clayton 164, identified by Dr. B. L. Robinson 

 in Rhodora 10: 67. 1908. as the species here considered. 



Capraria gralioloides L., Syst. ed. X. 1117. 1759. Based upon Graliola 

 duhia L. 



Gratiola tetragona Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 1: 15. 1816. "Growsin 

 ponds and ditches four miles from Charleston [South Carolina]." Type 

 seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum. 



Lindernia attenuata Muhl.; Ell., 1. c. 17. 1816. "Grows in wet places. 

 Vail' Ombrosa, Ogechee, Georgia. Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium 

 at the Charleston Mu.seum. Isotype in Herb. Columbia University at 

 the New York Botanical Garden. 

 • Ilysanthes dubia (L.) Barnhart, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 26: 376. 1899. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Swamps, and stream margins, especially in groves or woodland, 

 loam soil, through the southern Appalachians and the Piedmont, 

 both east and west of the mountains, apparently more frequent 

 northward ; in the Coastal Plain occasional or local, in heavier soils, 

 along river-bottoms and along the coastal bays. Ranges from New 

 Brunswick and Ontario south to northern Florida; also in the West 

 Indies and South America. In the lower Piedmont and Coastal 

 Plain forms transitional to /. inaequalis occur. 



Flowering from May to September, and soon ripening frait. 

 Corolla pale lavender, deeper in color near margin of lobes, and 

 within along the antero-lateral ridges with short yellow hairs. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9707. (Alabama)— 9723. 



2. Ilysanthes inaequalis (Walt.) Pennell. 



Gratiola inaequalis Walt., Fl. Carol. 61. 1788. Type not verified, but 

 is from lower South Carolina where the plant here considered is frequent. 

 Walter's species was interpreted as this plant by Elliott, the most critical 

 student of the Carolina flora. 



Gratiola anagallidea Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 1: 6. 1803. "Hab. in humidis 

 Carolinae [A. Michaux]." Type not verified. 



Linderniadilatata Muhl.; Ell, Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 1: 16. 1816. "Grows 

 in ditches, around ponds." Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the 

 Charleston Museum. It is labeled "Vail Ombrosa," whereas that of 

 L. attenuata bears no definite indication of locality. The first good char- 

 acterization of this species. 



Graiioto ditototo Muhl.; Spreng., Syst. 1:39. 1825. "Carolin[a]." Surely 

 based upon Lindernia dilatata Muhl., but this not cited. 



Ilysanthes inaequalis (Walt.) Pennell, Torreya 19: 149. 1919. 



Swamps, loam and more usually in sandy soil, frequently in open 

 situations, pineland pools and edges of hammocks, through the 

 Coastal Plain, frequent or local; extending inland locally into the 

 Piedmont. Ranges from Massachusetts to Florida and Texas; ap- 

 parently also in Colorado, the Pacific Coast states, in Mexico, the 

 West Indies, Central and South America. Intergrades with Ily- 

 santhes dubia. 



Flowering from March to September, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla as in /. dubia. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9649, 9673. (Alabama)— 9768. 



3. Ilysanthes saxicola (AI. A. Curtis) Chapm. 



Lindernia saxicola M. A. Curtis, Amer. Journ. Sci. 44: 83. 1843. "On 

 rocks in the Hiwassee River [North Carolina] [M. A. Curtis]. . . ." 

 Isotype seen in Herb. Columbia University at the New York Botanical 

 Garden. 



Ilysanthes saxicola (M. A. Curtis) Chapm., Fl. S. Un. St. 294. 1860. 



On rocks in rapid mountain-streams, known only from the Hi- 

 wassee River in North Carolina, and from the headwaters of the 

 Savannah River at Tallulah Falls, northern Georgia. 




1919.] • NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Flowering at least in August and September, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Not seen growing. 



4. Ilysanthes refracta (Ell.) Beath. 



Lindernia refracta Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 1: 579. 1821. "Grows 

 around the margins of ponds in Barnwell district, South Carolina; in 

 Burke County, and near Milledgeville, Georgia." Type, "Hab. in 

 sphagnis, Barnwell Co., So. Car.," seen in Elliott Herbarium at the Charles- 

 ton Museum. 



Tittmannia monlicola Spreng., Syst. 2: 800. 1825. " Carolina' bor. {Lin- 

 dernia monticola Nutt.)." The name of Nuttall was a nomen nudum, 

 and Nuttall (Gen. Am. 1: 9. 1818) says, perhaps due to a typographic 

 slip, "from the hills of New Hampshire." But that the name monticola 

 was in use before the date of Sprengel's publication is proven by the 

 existence of old specimens labeled "Lindernia monticola" collected by 

 Schweinitz probably in North Carolina. Such a specimen, in the her- 

 barium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden, is 

 probably an isotype of T. monticola, and is Ilysanthes refracta. 



Ilysanthes refracta (Ell.) Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 419. 1846. 



Moist sandy soil, shallow depressions in pineland, in the Coastal 

 Plain from South Carolina to northern Florida and eastern Alabama; 

 inland on the granite of central Georgia and eastern Alabama, and 

 likewise in the Piedmont of central North Carolina, doubtless also 

 on granite. 



Flowering from March to September, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla externally violet -purple, paler on the anterior side, within 

 paler, but with three violet-purple streaks below the posterior sin- 

 uses, a horizontal band of violet-purple on anterior side just within 

 the mouth, and with darker blotches below the anterior sinuses. 



Pennell (Georgia)-^053, 9510, 9522. 



5. Ilysanthes grandiflora (Nutt.) Benth. 



Lindernia grandiflora Nutt., Gen. Amer. 2: 43. 1818. "Hab. On the 

 spongy margins of sandy springs and ponds in Georgia, (betwixt Savannah 

 and Augusta in many places)." Type seen in Herb. Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Ilysanthes grandiflora (Nutt.) Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 418. 1846. 



Moist sandy soil, especially along streams, in longleaf pineland, 

 and southward in the Everglades, southern Georgia to southern 

 Florida. 



Flowering from March to at least July, probably to September, 

 and soon ripening fruit. Corolla externallj^ violet-blue, paler on 

 anterior side; posterior lobes externally pale purplish-blue, within 

 very pale and with light -violet median line; anterior lobes white 

 externally and within, excepting for two violet-blue blotches near 

 the bases of the lobes. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9654, 9670, 9672. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



14. GLOBIFERA.l. F. Gmelin. 

 Globifera J. F. Gmel., Syst. 2: 32. 1791. 



Type species, Anonymos umhrosa Walt. 



1. Globifera umbrosa (Walt.) J. F. Gmel. 



Anonymos umbrosa Walt., Fl. Carol. 63. 1788. Type, probably from 

 lower South Carolina, identified by Dr. S. F. Blake, in Rhodora 17: 131. 

 1915, as the species here considered. 



Micranthemum orhindalum Midix., Fl. Bor. Amer. 1: 10. pi. 2. 1803. Type 

 not verified, but description and plate evidently of species here considered. 

 Type of genus Micranthemum Michx. 



Micranthethum emarginatum Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 1: 18. 1816. 

 "Grows in ditches and wet places — Vail 'Ombrosa, Great Ogechee." 

 . Type seen in Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum. Said to be 

 "in the upper country, common," and characterized from the "very 

 common" (and evidently lowland) M. orbiculatum by its more remote 

 and larger leaves. Globifera umbrosa varies considerably in size of leaves, 

 but the ample collections at hand show this to be ecologic, and not to 

 distinguish plants of differing range. 



Wet loam or in shallow water, in woodland, especially in river- 

 bottoms, locally common throughout the Coastal Plain, especially 

 near the ocean. North Carolina to central Florida and eastern Texas; 

 rarely reported from above the fall-line. Also in eastern Mexico 

 and the West Indies. 



Flowering from May to October, and soon ripening fruit. Corolla 

 uniformly dull-white. Anthers red-brown. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9706. 



15. HEMIANTHUS Nuttall. 

 Hemianthus Nutt., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1: 119. pi. 6. 1817. 

 Type species, H. micranthemoides Nutt., of Pennsylvania. 



1. Hemianthus glomeratus (Chapm.) Pemiell, comb. nov. 



Micranthemum nultallii glomer- turn Chapm., Fl. S. Un. St. ed. III. 313. 

 1897. "Rivers and wet banks, South Florida." Tj^pe not verified. 



Sandy shores of lakes and rivers, known from Lake Okeechobee 

 and along the Gulf coast from Tampa to the Caloosahatchee River, 

 southern Florida. 



Flowering and fruiting probably throughout the year, the speci- 

 mens seen collected in May and November. Not seen growing. 



This may be distinguished from the other species of the Eastern 

 United States, Hemianthus micranthus (Pursh) Pennell (H. micran- 

 themoides Nutt.) of the Delaware and Chesapeake drainage by the 

 following contrast: 



Calyx-lobes obtuse or obtusish, less than one-fourth the length of the 

 tube. Anterior lobe of the corolla nearly as long as the portion 

 of the anterior lip below the base of the lateral lobes. 



H. micranthus. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



CaljTc-lobes acute, one-third to one-half the length of the tube. 

 Anterior lobe of the corolla about half as long as the portion 

 of the anterior lip below the base of the lateral lobes. 



H. glomeratxis. 



16. LEUCOSPORA Nuttall. 



Lewcospora Nutt., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 7: 87. 1834. 

 Type species, Capraria multifida Michx. 



1. Leuscopora multifida (Michx.) Nutt. 



Capraria multifida Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 2: 22. pi. 35. 1805. "Hab. 

 in ripis arenosis fluminum amniculorumque, in Tennassee et Illinoensi 

 regione." Type not verified, but description and plate certainly of 

 species here considered. 

 Leucospora multifida (Michx.) Nutt., 1. c. 87. 1834. 



Sandy or loam banks of brooks or rivers, in open meadows or 

 along shores, also in "Cedar Glades," Tennessee west of the Cum- 

 berland Mountains, to western Alabama and central Mississippi. 

 Ranges from southwestern Ontario to Kansas, south to Alabama and 

 Texas. 



Flowering from June to October, and soon ripening fruit. Corolla 

 pale-lavender, deeper on lobes, and lined with deeper lavender; tube 

 within at base greenish-yellow, then yellow on the anterior side, 

 and toward mouth with a purplish ring; white at base of the lavender 

 anterior lobes. This plant has been placed in the very different 

 tropical genus Conohea Aubl. ' ' 



17. VERB AS CUM Linne. 



Verhascum L., Sp. PI. 177. 1753. 



Type species, V. thapsus L., of Europe. 



Stem glabrous or with simple gland-tipped hairs above. Leaves 

 glabrous. Pedicels 10-15 mm. long. Filaments all densely 

 lanose with knobbed purple hairs. Capsule subglobose, glandu- 

 lar-puberulent. Seeds .8-.9 mm. long, dark-gray. 



1. V. hlattaria. 

 Stem pubescent with stellate glandless hairs. Leaves, at least 

 beneath, pubescent. Pedicels less than 10 mm. long. Fila- 

 ments: three posterior lanose, two anterior sparingly lanose 

 to glabrous, with filiform yellow hairs. Capsules ovoid to 

 oblong, stellate-pubescent. Seeds A-.7 mm. long, brownish- 

 gray. 

 Leaf-blades crenate, glabrate above, those of the stem sessile. 

 Pedicels usually several in an axil. Sepals about one-half 

 length of capsule. Inflorescence not densely crowded. 

 Inflorescence a simple raceme, the pedicels 1-5 to an axil. 

 Capsule globose, 7-8 mm. long. Leaves green and slightly 

 pubescent beneath. 2. V. virgatum. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Inflorescence a panicle of racemes, the pedicels 3-12 to an 

 axil. Capsule oblong or oblong-ovoid, 4-5 mm. long. 

 Leaves white and densely stellate -tomentose beneath. 



3. T^. lychnitis. 

 Leaf-blades entire or but obscurely crenate, densely pubescent 



above, those of the stem decurrent. Pedicels one to an axil. 

 Sepals equaling the capsule. Inflorescence densely crowded. 



4. Y. thapsus. 



1. Verbascum blattaria L. 



Old fields and roadsides, throughout area north of central Florida. 

 Naturalized from Eurasia. 



2. Verbascum virgatum With. 



Berkeley Co., South Carolina. Naturalized from Eurasia. 



3. Verbascum lychnitis L. 



Old fields and roadsides, occasional in North Carolina. Natural- 

 ized from Eurasia. 



4. Verbascum thapsus L. 



Old fields, roadsides and thickets, throughout area north of central 

 Florida, usually common. Naturalized from Eurasia. 



18. PENSTEMON [Mitchell] Schmidel. 

 Penstemon Schmidel, Icon. PI. 2. 1762. 



Type species, Chelone pentstemon L. 



Leaf-blades dimorphic, those of the prostrate wintering stems entire 

 or few-toothed, those of the erect flowering stems bipinnatifid 

 with linear segments. Corolla pink-purple, its throat strongly 

 inflated and but obscurely ridged anteriorly. Anther-sacs 

 shallowly saccate. Sterile filament conspicuously exserted. 



1. P. dissedus. 

 Leaf-blades uniform, entire or merely toothed. Corolla reddish- 

 purple to white, its throat moderately to slightly inflated, 

 obviously ridged anteriorly. Sterile filament included or slightly 

 exserted. 



Anther-sacs dehiscent by short proximal slits, the distal portion 

 of each remaining pouch -like. Leaf -blades entire or essen- 

 tially so. Branches of the inflorescence elongate. Corolla 

 white, unlined, nearly glabrous within the throat. 



2. P. multiflorus. 

 Anther-sacs dehiscent their entire length, so never pouch-like. 



Leaf -blades more or less serrate. Branches of the inflorescence 



less elongate. Corolla lanose within, nearlj^ always with 



more or less conspicuous lines of deeper color within on the 



anterior side. 



Corolla with throat relatively inflated, its mouth open, not 



closed by the anterior lip. Sterile filament slightly to 



moderately densely bearded. Plants ialler. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Corolla white, rather strongly inflated. Anther-sacs usually 



barbate. Stem glabrous or nearly so 3. P. digitalis. 



Corolla more or less violet-purple, moderately inflated. An- 

 ther-sacs glabrous. Stem usually puberulent. 

 Corolla more open, its throat anteriorly shallowly two- 

 ridged, and with broader less evident lines. Anther- 

 sacs grayish. Sterile filament included, slightly 

 bearded. Stem finely puberulent. 

 Calyx-lobes becoming 4-7 mm. long, one-half to two- 

 thirds the length of the capsule. Corolla 20-25 

 (-28) mm. long, usually Hght violet-purple. Leaf- 

 blades lanceolate, sparsely serrate. 4. P. pefitstemon. 

 Calyx-lobes becoming 8-10 mm. long, equaling the 

 capsule. Corolla 25-35 mm. long, usually deeper 

 violet-purple. Leaf-blades broadly lanceolate, usu- 

 ally more serrate. 5. P. calycoms. 

 Corolla narrower, its throat within strongly two-ridged 

 anteriorly, and (at least in P. canescens) with narrow 

 sharply defined lines. Anther-sacs violet-purple. Ster- 

 ile filament slightly exserted, moderately bearded. 

 Stems more loosely puberulent. 

 Blades of the cauline leaves tapering from the broad 

 base, more serrate, glabrous or nearly so. Corolla, 

 "bright pink -purple." Capsule broadly ovoid. 



6. P. smallii. 

 Blades of the cauline leaves usually narrowed from 



above the narrower base, less serrate, more pubes- 

 cent. Corolla faint violet-purple, conspicuously 

 lined within throat. Capsule ovoid. 



7. P. canescens. 

 Corolla with throat scarcely inflated, its mouth closed by the 



anterior lip, which rises as a convex arc. Sterile filament 



very densely bearded. Plants lower. 

 Corolla 20-25 mm. long, broader, red-purple, throat deeply 

 lined within, white on anterior lobes within. Sterile 

 filament bearded with golden-yellow hairs. 



8. P. australis. 

 Corolla 25-30 mm. long, very narrow and slender, white 



throughout. Sterile filament bearded with lemon-yellow 

 hairs. 9. P. tenuiflorus. 



1. Penstemon dissectus Ell. 



Penstemon dissectus Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 2: 129. 1822. "This 

 . . . species was sent me . . . from Louisville, Georgia, by 

 Mr. Jackson." Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston 

 Museum. 



Light gravelly soil, rock-ledges, rock outcrops of Altamaha Grit, 

 southern Georgia. 



Flowering in April and May, fruiting in June. Corolla violet 

 purple, externally slightly redder, paler on anterior side, within 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



bluer on lobes, paler within throat and in a triangle at base of each 

 lobe, the throat within with fine longitudinal violet-purple lines. 

 Sterile filament with slightly yellowish hairs. 



The pecuhar dimorphism of the leaves of this species, as well as 

 the occurrence of bipinnatifid leaf -blades, is unique in this genus. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9527. 



2. Penstemon multiflorus Chapm. 



Pensiemon pubescens multiflorus (Chapm.) Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 327. 

 1846. "In Louisiana et Florida. P. multiflorus Chapm. mss."_ Speci- 

 men seen in Herb. Columbia University at the New York Botanical Gar- 

 den, from "sandy pine woods, between Mariana & St. Andrew's Bay," 

 collected by A. W. Chapman "Oct., 1838," and labeled "probably a 

 distinct species," is probably an isotype. 



Penstemon multiflorus Chapm.; Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1061. 1903. 



Sandy or gravelly soil, scrub-oak land or pine land, through 

 peninsular Florida, and westward through Middle Florida to the 

 West Florida Pine Hills, and in extreme southern Georgia. 



Flowering from May to July, and soon ripening fruit, southward 

 flowering and fruiting throughout the year. Corolla white, within 

 slightly purple on proximal part of tube, and sometimes on the 

 lobes. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9539, 9548, 9644. 



3. Penstemon digitalis Nutt. 



Chelone digitalis (Nutt.) Sweet, Brit. Fl. Card. pi. 120. 1825. " Pent- 

 stemon Digitalis Nutt. . . . Found by Mr. Nuttall in the Arkansas 

 territory of North America. . . . The plant from which our draw- 

 ing was taken was received last autumn from New York, by Mr. Ander- 

 son, of the Apothecaries' Garden at Chelsea, to whom it was sent by 

 Mr. Hogg." A careful description and illustration, certainly of the plant 

 now considered, the description being apparently more accurate than 

 Nuttall's own in mentioning the pubescence of the anthers. 



Penstemon digitalis Nutt., Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. ser. II. 5: 181. 1837. 

 "Hab. in wet woods and prairies [Arkansas Territory]; common. [T. 

 Nuttall.]" Possible type, labeled " Pentsiemon latifolium., Arkansa, 

 Nuttall," seen in Herb. Columbia University at the New York Botanical 

 Garden. Described without reference to Chelone digitalis. 



Fields and edges of woodland, loam, western Tennessee and near 

 Birmingham, Alabama, probably elsewhere northward. Native in 

 the southwestern Mississippi valley; extensively introduced into 

 the northeastern United States, and probably an introduction into 

 the southeastern flora. 



Flowering in May and June, fruiting in August and September. 

 Corolla white throughout, or within on the anterior side with more 

 or less evident violet lines. 



4. Penstemon pentstemon (L.) Macm. 



Chelone 'pentstemon L., Sp. PI. 612. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." Type 

 not verified, but must have been the species here considered, because 

 in 1753 this was certainly the only essentially glabrous species of the 

 Atlantic seaboard. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



Penslemon laevigatus Ait., Hort. Kew. 2: 361. 1789. "Chelone Pentstemon 

 J. F. Miller ic. 4. . . . Nat. of North America. Cult. 1776, by John 

 Fothergill, M. D." The description, and also the plate of Miller, clearly 

 denote the species now considered. 



Bartramia pulchella Salisb., Prod. Stirp. Chapel Allerton 99. 1796. New 

 name for Penstemon laevigatus Ait. Type of genus Bartramia Salisb. 



Pensteuon pentstemon (L.) Macm., Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 19: 1.5. 1892. 



Meadows, river-banks and edges of forest, l(j)am or clay, frequent 

 or common through the Piedmont, both east and west of the moun- 

 tains, and through the lower valleys of the southern Appalachians: 

 descending along river-banks slightly into the Coastal Plain. Ranges 

 from Virginia to northern Florida and Louisiana, and inland prob- 

 ably to Illinois; perhaps introduced westward. 



Flowering from mid-Ma}^ to mid-June, fruiting in July and August. 

 Corolla externally violet-purplish, deepest on tube, on throat and 

 lobes pale-purplish, nearly white on anterior side; within white, 

 and within throat on anterior side with more or less evident violet 

 lines. Sterile filament with yellow hairs. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9787. (Alabama)— 9746, 9756, 9780. 



5. Penstemon calycosus Small. 



Penstemon calycosus Small, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 2.5: 470. 1898. "Nash- 

 ville, Tennessee." This refers to a note in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 21: 304. 

 1894, reporting the occurrence of "Penstemon Stnallii" and stating: 

 "Mr. Bicknell has lately discovered this ... at Nashville, Ten- 

 nessee, He remarks that it grows plentifully on the bluffs of the Cum- 

 berland River about that city." Type seen in Herb. Columbia University 

 at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Rocky places, limestone ledges, in forest, Tennessee Basin and 

 lower slopes of the Cumberland IVIountains, central and eastern 

 Tennessee, and northern Alabama. Ranges northward to Indiana 

 and Illinois. 



Flowering from mid-May to mid-June, fruiting in July. Corolla 

 externally violet-purple (redder than in P. pentstemon), deeper 

 posteriorly, fainter to white on anterior side; within nearly white 

 within throat, on lobes faintly violet-purple, and with a few ob- 

 scurely violet-purple lines within throat on anterior side. Sterile 

 filament with yellowish hairs. 



Pennell (Alabama)— 9772. 



6. Penstemon smallii Heller. 



Penstemon smallii Heller, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 21: 25. 1894. "Collected 

 by the writer on Blowing Rock Mountain, Caldwell County, N[orthl 

 C[arolina], July 21, 1890, at an elevation of 4000 feet. .... Early 

 in June, 1891, the locality was again visited in company with Mr. John K. 

 Small." Type, Blowing Rock Mountain, Watauga Co., collected in 

 flower June 10-20, Small & Heller 451, seen in Herb. Columbia University 

 at the New York Botanical Garden. Isotype in Herb. Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Rocky lower mountain-slopes and on river-bluffs, in forest, Ap- 

 palachians of North Carolina, eastern Tennessee and northernmost 

 Georgia. Ranges northward into southwestern Virginia. 



Flowering from late May to late June, fruiting in July. Xot seen 

 growing. 



7. Penstemon canescens (Britton) Brltton. 



Penstemon laerigatus canescens Britton, Mem. Torr. Bot. Club 2: 30. 1890. 

 "High, rocky banks of the Roanoke River [near Roanoke, Virginia, 

 May, 1890, A. M. Vail and others]." Type, collected May 29, labeled 

 by Dr. Britton who was of the party, seen in Herb. Columbia University 

 at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Penstemon cane'icens (Britton) Britton, 1. c. 5:291. 1894. 



Rocky loam, in open forest, lower mountain slopes, in the eastern 

 Appalachians seen only from near the French Broad River in North 

 Carolina; through at least the southern Cumberlands (abundant 

 on Lookout Mountain), and in extreme northwestern Georgia (and 

 doubtless northeastern Alabama). 



Flowering in May and June, fruiting in July and August. Corolla 

 externally faint violet -purple, within nearly white, and on the an- 

 terior side with eleven narrow sharply defined deep violet purple 

 lines. Sterile filament with pale brownish yellow hairs. 



Fennel 1 (Georgia)— 9785. (Tennessee)— 5717, 9788. 



8. Penstemon australis Small. 



Penstemon australis Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1060, 1337. 1903. "Type, 

 Nash, PI. Fla., 1822, in Herb. C. U." Type, Eustis, Lake County, 

 f Florida, collected in flower and fruit May 28- June 15, 1895, seen in Herb. 

 Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Dry sandy soil, fields, scrub oak and pine land, through the Coastal 

 Plain from North Carolina to central Florida and eastern Texas, 

 mostly common; inland to the granite of central Georgia, and in 

 upper South Carolina. Usually with broader leaves inland, while 

 in the pine-barrens of the Coastal Plain the cauline may be fewer 

 and usually much smaller so that the stem appears somewhat scapose. 



Flowering in April and May, fruiting in June and July. Corolla 

 externally reddish-purple, paler on anterior side; within red-purple 

 on posterior lobes with on each a fine median line of deeper color, 

 anterior lobes white, with deep red-purple streaks, three to each 

 lateral lobe, and five, which anastomoze distally, to the median 

 lobe. Sterile filament with yellow hairs. 



This and other southern species have been freely listed as "Pen- 

 stemon puhescens" or "P. hirsutus," a northern plant,, with lavender 

 corollas, and not definitely known from our area. 



Pennell (North Carohna)— 4944. (Georgia)— 4032, 9515, 9525. 

 (Florida)— 9680, 9694, 9708. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



9. Penstemon tenuiflorus Pennell. 



Penstemon tenuifiorus Pennell, Addisonia 4: 79. pi. 160. 1919. "The type 

 specimen was collected in loam soil in open pineland, three miles southeast 

 of Albany, Morgan County, Alabama, on May 27, 1917, my number 9753, 

 and is preserved in the herbarum of the New York Botanical Garden." 



Stem 3-6 dm. tall, whitish -puberulent. Blades of the cauline 

 leaves 3-9 cm. long, obscurely serrulate, puberulent to pubescent. 

 Panicle narrow, its branches glandular-pubescent. Calyx-lobes 



ovate, 3-5 mm. long. Corolla 25-30 mm. long, its throat narrowly 

 arched and keeled posteriorly, flattened and strongly two-ridged 

 within anteriorly; externally glandular-puberulent, within pubescent 

 with yellow hairs over the projecting bases of the anterior lobes; 

 white, faintly tinged externally and on margins of lobes with violet, 

 not lined within throat. Posterior lobes united two-thirds their 

 length, their free portions erect-recurved. Sterile filament distally 

 densely bearded with short lemon-yellow hairs. Capsule not seen. 



Open woodlands, in loam soil, western Tennessee and northern 

 Alabama. Ranges north to Illinois and west to Oklahoma. 



Pennell (Alabama) — 9753. 



19. CHELONE Linng. 

 ■ Chelone L., Sp. PL 611. 1753. 



Type species, C. glabra L. 



Leaf-blades sessile and somewhat clasping, 1. C. cuthhertii. 



Leaf -blades manifestly petioled. 



Leaf -blades of a lanceolate type, narrowed to short petioles. 

 Corolla cream-white, white-lanose wnthin the throat. Sepals 

 obscurely or not cihate. 2. C. glabra. 



Leaf-blades of an ovate type, slightly cordate or narrowed into 

 petioles 1.5-3 cm. long. Corolla rose-purple, yellow-lanose 

 within the throat. Sepals evidently ciliate. 3. C. lyonii. 



1. Chelone cuthbertii Small. 



Chelone cuthbertii Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1058, 1337. 1903. "Type, 

 Highlands, N. C, Cuthbert, no. 283, in N. Y. B. G." Type, collected 

 in flower August, 1897, in a wet meadow, at an altitude of 3800 feet, 

 seen in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Wet meadows, western North Carolina. Little known, and the 



relation between this and C. glabra should be studied in the field. 



Flowering in August. Not seen growing. 



2. Chelone glabra L. 



Chelojie glabra L., Sp. PI. 611. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada." 

 Based upon a plant grown in the Clifford Garden in Holland. Descrip- 

 tion sufficiently distinctive. 



Wet meadows and woodland swamps, through the southern 



Appalachians and Piedmont, common northward; descending into 



18 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the Coastal Plain in river- valleys, reaching Florida, probably near 

 the Apalachicola River. Ranges from Newfoundland to Manitoba, 

 south to northern Florida, and Kansas. 



Flowering in late September and October, fruiting probably in 

 October and November. Corolla cream-white, more or less pink- 

 tinged within posterior lip, on anterior lobes, and laterally along 

 anterior lip; occasionally entirely pink. 



The forma tomentosa (Raf.) Pennell (in Torreya 19: 117. 1919), 

 with leaves tomentose or pubescent beneath, is to be looked for in 

 our area. 



3. Chelone lyonii Pursh. 



Chelone lyonii Pursh, Fl. Amer. Sept. 2: 737. 1814. ''In Upper Carolina 

 and Georgia. Lyon. . . . v. s. in Herb. Lambert." 



Chelone major Sims, Bot. Mag. 44: pi. 1864. 1816. "Introduced by the 

 late Mr. Lyons, from Carolina. . . . Communicated by Mr. Lam- 

 bert, from Boyton, . . ." Obviously of the same origin as C. lyonii 

 Pursh, and with a distinctive illustration. 



Chelone latifolia Muhl.; Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 2: 127. 1822. "This 

 plant . . . was discovered ... by Mr. Lyon along the base 

 of the mountains of Carohna, but principally in Burke County, N. C." 

 Description obviously of the species now considered. Described as 

 having ovate leaf-blades, tapering at base, in contrast to the cordate 

 blades of C. lyonii Pursh. This species shows complete gradation in 

 leaf-form between these two states. 



Moist mountain-woodland, eastern Appalachians, North Carolina 

 and Tennessee, said to occur southward to northeastern Alabama.* 



Flowering from mid-July to mid-September, fruiting in September 

 and October. Not seen growing. 



20. SCROPHULARIA Linne. 

 Scrophularia L., Sp. PI. 619. 1753. 

 Type species, S. nodosa L., of Europe. 



1. Scrophularia marilandica L. 



Scrophularia marilandica L., 1. c. 619. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." 

 Based upon a plant grown in the Upsala Garden, which from the descrip- 

 tion in the Hortus Up.salensis 177, 1748, would appear to have been the 

 species now considered. 



Open woodland, loam soil, Appalachians, and Piedmont both 



east and west of the mountains. Ranges from Massachusetts, 



southern Ontario and eastern Nebraska, south to Florida,^ central 



Alabama and Arkansas. * 



^Reported from Jackson Co., Alabama, by Mohr, Contrib. Nat. Herb. 6: 

 718. 1901. 



' Reported from Quincy, Florida, by A. W. Chapman in West. Jour. Med. 

 and Surg. 3: 473. 1845; and from the Marianna Red Lands of northern Florida 

 by R. M. Harper, Fla. Geol. Surv. Rep. 6: 199. 1914. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



Flowering in July and August, fruiting in August and September. 

 Corolla externally pale-greenish, on posterior side brownish, within 

 purple-brown on posterior side (on and below posterior lobes, and 

 posterior half of antero-lateral lobes), anteriorly (elsewhere) pale- 

 greenish. Sterile filament dark purple-brown. 



The northern Scrophularia leporella Bickn., easily distinguished 

 by its yellow sterile filament, its more cut leaves and its . earlier 

 flowering season (for fuller contrast see Torreya 19: 118), is to be 

 looked for in upland North Carolina* and Tennessee. 



The type of Scrophularia serrulata Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1058, 

 1337. 1903, "Type Ga., Chapman, in Herb. C. U.," appears to be a 

 specimen of the Palsearctic Scrophularia nodosa L. The plant is 

 from the Chapman herbarium but without indication of collector; 

 certainly some confusing of data has occurred, or perhaps the speci- 

 men is from Georgia in the Caucasus. 



21. COLLINSIA NuttaU. 

 CoUinsia Nutt., Journ. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. 1: 190. 1817. 



Type species, C. verna Nutt. 



1. CoUinsia verna Nutt. 



CoUinsia verna Nutt., 1. c. 190. pi. 8. 1817. "On descending the Ohio 

 . . . nearly to Galiopolis, ... I recognized it on the more open 

 alluvions of the river, withered and nearly past aflfording seed. . . . 

 From these seeds ... I have been fortunate enough to obtain the 

 plant from which the accompanying drawing was taken by . . . 

 M. C. A. Le Sueur." Type seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



Moist woods, alluvial river-bottoms, in central or western Ten- 

 nessee. Ranges from western New York to southern Minnesota, 

 south to Tennessee and Missouri. 



Flowering in late April and early May, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Not seen growing. 



22. RUSSELIA Jacquin. 

 Rxissellia Jacq., Enum. PI. Carib. 25. 1760. 



Type species, R. sarmentosa Jacq., of Cuba. 

 1. Busselia juncea Zucc. 



Occasional in pineland and hammock, Dade County, southern 

 Florida. Escaped from gardens. Introduced from Mexico. 



23. ANGELONIA Humboldt & Bonpland 



Angelonia H. & B., PI. Aequin. 2: 92. pl. 108. 1809. 



Type species, A. salicariaefolia H. & B., of Venezuela. 



* Reported from western North Carolina by Hyams, N. C. Coll. A. & M. 

 Arts, Bull. 164, 326. 1899. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



1. Angelonia angustifolia Benth. 



Occasional in pineland, Dade County, southern Florida. Escaped 

 from gardens. Introduced from Mexico. 



24. LINARIA Miller. 

 Linaria Mill., Gard. Diet. ed. IV. 1754. 

 Type species, Antirrhinum linaria L., of Europe. 



Corolla, excluding spur, 4-12 mm. long, blue, posterior lip erect; 

 anterior lip broadly spreading, but not forming a definite raised 

 palate. Capsule 2-3.5 mm. long, equaling to exceeding the 

 sepals. Seeds .3-.4 mm. long, cylindric, prismatic-angled, not 

 winged. Stem less leafy, the younger stems spreading-prostrate 

 from base. (Leptoplectron.) 



Pedicels glandular-pubescent, longer than the corollas. Spur very 



short. 1. L. fioridana. 



Pedicels nearly glabrous, shorter than the corollas. Spur slender. 

 Corolla less than 8 mm. long, excluding the spur. Surface 

 of seeds smooth to slightly tuberculate. 2. L. canadensis. 

 Corolla over 10 mm. long, excluding the spur. Surfaces and 

 angles of seed densely tuberculate. 3. L. texana. 



Corolla, excluding spur, 15-18 mm. long, yellow; posterior lip arched 

 over anterior; anterior lip forming a conspicuous protruding 

 orange palate; spur stout. Capsule 10 mm. long, much ex- 

 ceeding the sepals. Seeds 1.7 mm. long, flattened and cir- 

 cularly broadly winged. Stem densely leafy, always erect. 



4. L. linaria. 



1. Linaria fioridana Chapm. 



Linaria fioridana Chapm., Fl. S. Un. St. 290. 1860. "Drifting; sands 

 near the coast, West Florida." Several specimens, collected by Dr. 

 Chapman at Apalachicola, seen in Herb. New York Botanical Garden 

 and Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Dry sandy soil, sand ridges along rivers and near the coast, south- 

 ern Georgia to central Florida, westward near the Gulf Coast to 

 southern Mississippi. 



Flowering in March and April, and soon ripening fruit, the late 

 flowering and fruiting plants persisting through May. Corolla 

 light-blue, the palate paler. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9579, 9581. 



2. Linaria canadensis (L.) Dum.-Cours. 



Antirrhinum canadense L., Sp. PI. 618. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, 

 Canada." Type probably from southern New Jersey, and certainly the 

 species now considered. For discussion see Torreya 19: 151. 1919. 



Linaria canadensis Dum.-Cours. Bot. Cult. 2: 96. 1802. "Lieu, Le Can- 

 ada, la Virginie." Doubtless based upon Antirrhinum canadense L. 



Open sandy soil, usually a weed, mostly common in the At- 

 lantic Coastal Plain south to central Florida (intergrading somewhat 

 with L. texana in Georgia and Florida) ; in the Piedmont on the 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Granite of the Carolinas and central Georgia, and on other sandy- 

 soils, where probabh' introduced, inland to the southern Appala- 

 chians. Ranges northward to Massachusetts. Westward and inland 

 at occasional stations where probably introduced. 



Flowering from March to May, and soon ripening fruit. Corolla 

 purplish-blue, the palate pale to white. Occasionally a pink-flow- 

 ered form occurs. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9502. (Florida)— 9533, 9536, 9577, 9701. 



3. Linaria texana Scheele. 



Linaria texana Scheele, Linnaea 21: 761. 1848. "Zwischen Houston und 

 Austin [Texas] haufig: Romer." Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Open sand or sandy loam, frequently a weed, in the Coastal Plain 

 from South Carolina to southern Mississippi, probably more com- 

 mon westward. Ranges widely through western North America, 

 and into South America. Probably Linaria canadensis is a deriva- 

 tive of this. 



Flowering from March to May and soon ripening fruit. Corolla 

 pale-blue, reticulate-veined with slightly darker color, essentially as 

 in L. canadensis but larger throughout. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 9512, 9521. (Alabama)— 9724, 9727. 



4. Linaria linaria (L.) Karst. 



Linaria vulgaris Mill. 



Loam or sandy soil, fields and waste ground, a weed; mostlj' above 

 the Fall-line, probably common northward. Naturalized from 

 Eurasia. 



25. KICKXIA Dumortier. 

 Kickxia Dum., Fl. Belg. 35. 1827. 

 Type species. Antirrhinum elatine L., of Europe. 



Leaf-blades rounded-cordate at base. Calyx-lobes ovate. 



1. K. spuria. 

 Leaf-blades hastate. Calyx-lobes lanceolate. 2. K. elatine. 



1. Kickxia spuria (L.) Dumort. 



Waste places and roadsides, occasional eastward. Naturahzed 

 from Eurasia. 



2. Kickxia elatine (L.) Dumort. 



Waste places, roadsides and stone-walls, occasional eastward. 

 Naturalized from Eurasia. 



26. VERONICASTRUM Heister. 

 Veronicastrum Heist.; Fabr., Enum. Meth. PI. Hort. Helmstad. 111. 1759. 



Type species, Veronica virginica L. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



1. Veronicastrum virginicum (L.) Farwell. 



Veronica virginica L., Sp. PI. 9. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." Grown 

 in the Clifford Garden. Certainly the species here considered. 



Veronicastrum album Moench., Meth. 437. 1794. ". . . Veronica 

 virginica L." 



Calistachya alba Raf., Med. Repos. N. Y. Ilnd Hex. 5: 352. 1808. Based 



on Veronica virginica L. Type of Calistachya Raf., not Callistachys Vent., 



1804. 

 Eustachya alba (Raf.) Raf., Cat. 14. 1824. Eustachya Raf., Amer. Mo. 



Mag. 4: 190. 1819, was a new name for Calistachya Raf. Preoccupied 



by Eiistachys Desv., 1810. 

 Leptandra alba (Raf.) Raf., Med. Fl. 2: 21. 1830. "The true V. virginica 



of L. . . . The most common species being found all over the United 



States." 

 Leptandra villosa Raf., 1. c. 21. 1830. "Mr. Schweinitz has found it in 



North Carolina." If the state with the leaves pubescent beneath be 



distinguished as a forma, this name should be used. 

 Veronicastrum virginicum (L.) Farwell, Drugg. Circ. 61: 231. 1917. 



Varying, in number of leaves in whorl, in inflorescence of one or 

 several racemes, and in leaves from lanceolate to nearly ovate, 

 pubescent to nearly or quite glabrous beneath. 



Sandy or loam soil, swales or moist meadows, hillside thickets, 

 through the southern Appalachians and Piedmont, both east and 

 west of the mountains, apparently scarce; rarely descending into 

 the Coastal Plain. Ranges from Connecticut and Ontario and 

 Minnesota, south to Mississippi and Texas. 



Flowering in August, fruiting in September. Corolla white 

 throughout, anthers brown. 



27. VERONICA Linne. 



Veronica L., Sp. PI. 9. 1753. 



Type species, V. officinalis L., of Europe. 



Flowers solitary, axillary, frequently approximating so as to form 

 a terminal raceme. Leaves alternate through the inflorescence. 

 Pedicels longer than the sepals, usually exceeding the bracts. 

 Sepals ovate. Capsule turgid. Seeds few, 1.3-3 mm. long, 

 convex-arched, roughened. Leaves petioled (rarely the up- 

 permost sessile), primarily palmately 5-7 nerved, the mid- 

 vein usually with some radiating pinnate veins; mainly 

 alternate, the lower sometime opposite. 

 Leaves broadly cordate, 3-5 lobed, the lobes rounded. Sepals 

 broadly ovate, conspicuously ciliate. Capsule very turgid, 

 scarcely notched at apex, only slightly 2-lobed. Seeds 

 2.5-3 mm. long, blackish. L V. hederaefolia. 



Leaves ovate, serrate to dentate. Sepals more shortly ciliate. 

 Capsule slightly flattened, deeply notched at apex, thus 

 strongly two-lobed. Seeds L3-L5 mm. long, brown. 

 Petals not exceeding the ovate sepals. Capsule-lobes rounded, 

 the most distal point of each about midway between 

 the style and the lateral margin. 



2. V. agrestis. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Petals exceeding the narrowly ovate sepals. Capsule-lobes 

 acutish, the most distal point of each near the lateral 

 margin. 3. T^ persica. 



Pedicels shorter than sepals or bracts. Sepals linear to narrowly 

 ovate. Capsule flattened. Seeds many, less than 1 mm. 

 long, flat, smooth or nearly so. Leaves sessile (or the lower 

 petioled), scarcely palmate, alternate only through the in- 

 florescence. 

 Perennial. Repent, with ascending stems. Leaves oval or 

 ovate, obscurely crenate. Inflorescence spike-like, re- 

 stricted to the distal portion of the stem. Sepals ovate. 

 Corolla white, with blue lines on posterior side. Cap- 

 sule retuse or shallowly notched, glandular-pubescent. 



4. V. serpylli folia. 

 Annuals. Erect, much branched beloAv. Most leaf-axils flower- 

 bearing. Sepals lanceolate to linear. Capsule deeply 

 notched. 



Lower stem-leaves ovate, crenate-serrate, the lowermost 

 frequently petioled. Corolla deep violet-blue. Cap- 

 sule pubescent with slightly gland-tipped hairs. Plant 

 pubescent with glandless hairs. 



5. V. arvensis. 



Lower stem-leaves oblanceolate, entire or distally remotely 

 toothed, all sessile. Corolla whitish throughout. Cap- 

 sule glabrous. Plant glabrous or with, short gland-tipped 

 hairs. 

 Plant glabrous. 6. V. peregrina. 



Plant pubescent with gland-tipped hairs. 



6a. V. peregrina xalapensis. 

 Flow^ers all in axillary small-bracted racemes. Leaves opposite 

 throughout. Perennials. 

 Capsule glandular-pubescent, strongly two-lobed, longer than the 

 sepals. Stems, pedicels, leaves and sepals pubescent. Leaves 

 oval, crenate-serrate, narrowed to a petiolar base. Exten- 

 sively repent, at apex ascending. Plant of dry soil. 



7. V. officinalis. 

 Capsule glabrous, scarcely or not two-lobed, equaling the sepals. 

 Plant glabrous or with scattered gland-tipped hairs. Leaves 

 oblong-ovate to broadly lanceolate, obscurely crenate-serrate. 

 Ascending or wholly erect. Aquatics. 

 Stem distally, rhachis and pedicels glabrous. Leaves oblong- 

 ovate, all petioled, mostly emersed. Racemes usually 10- 

 25 flowered. Plant emersed. 8. V. americana. 

 Stem distally, rachis and pedicels sparsely pubescent with 

 glands, borne upon jointed stalks. Leaves lanceolate, 

 clasping. Racemes usually 25-50 flowered. Plant nearly 

 submersed. 9. V. glandifera. 



1. Veronica hederaefolia L. 



Waste places, mostly near cities, occasional. Naturalized from 

 Eurasia. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



2. Veronica agrestis L. 



Waste places and fields, mostly near cities, occasional. Natural- 

 ized from Eurasia. 



3. Veronica persica Poir. 



Fields, roadsides and waste places, occasional or local. Natural- 

 ized from Eurasia. 



Corolla with tube and base of lobes white, anterior lobes pale, 

 lateral darker, posterior sky blue; lobes all with blue longitudinal 

 veins. 



4. Veronica serpyllifolia L. 



Fields, thickets and waste places, common at least northward. 

 Naturalized from Eurasia. 



Corolla white or nearly so, on posterior side with blue lines. 



5. Veronica arvensis L. 



Fields, cultivated soil, and waste ground, common at least north- 

 ward. Naturalized from Eurasia. 



Corolla with all lobes deep sky-blue, whitish at base, veined with 

 deeper sky-blue. 



6. Veronica peregrina L. 



Veronica peregrina L., Sp. PI. 14. 1753. "Habitat in Europae hortis, 

 arvisque." Described, as the specific name would suggest, from speci- 

 mens of an introduced plant. 



Fields and cultivated soil, especially where moist, common. Cer- 

 tainly American in origin, but now wholly weed-like. 

 Corolla uniformly dull-white. 

 Pennell (Florida)— 9712. (Alabama)— 9725, 9758. 



6a. Veronica peregrina xalapensis (H.B.K.) Pennell. 



Veronica xalapejisis H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 389. 1817. "Crescit 



in Regno Mexicano prope Xalapa (alt. 630 hex. [ca. 1200 m.]), in nemori- 



bus Liquidambaris Styracifluae." 

 Veronica peregrina xalapensis (H. B. K.) Pennell, Torreya 19: 167. 1919. 



Occasional in cultiv^ated soil. In the western half of the continent 

 this glandular-pubescent variety quite replaces true peregrina. In 

 the East it is only occasionally seen, and that probably as an intro- 

 duction. 



7. Veronica officinalis L. 



Dry fields, open woods, and stony hillsides, common at least 

 northward. Naturalized from Eurasia. 



Corolla very pale -lavender, on posterior side with seven lavender- 

 blue lines. 



8. Veronica americana Schwein. 



Veronica americana Schwein., Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 468. 1846. "Ver- 

 onica americana (Schweinitz! mss.). ... In America boreali a 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Canada et Carolina usque ad flum. Oregon et in ins. Sitcha . . . 

 (v. s.)." Specimen seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, labeled "Bethl." [Bethlehem, Pennsylvania], collected by 

 Schweinitz, may be of collection sent Bentham. 



Springheads in woodland, and along streams, in the southern 

 Appalachians of North Carolina and eastern Tennessee, in the Pied- 

 mont of South Carolina, likely occasional in this zone both east 

 and west of the mountains. Ranges from Quebec to Alaska, south 

 to South Carolina, New Mexico and California. 



Flowering from June to August, and soon ripening fruit. Corolla 

 pale-blue, distally with few rather faint deeper-blue lines. 



9. Veronica glandifera Pennell. 



Veronica glandifera Pennell, Torreya 19: 170. 1919. "Type, vicinity of 

 Suffolk, Nansemond County, Virginia, collected in flower and fruit May 27, 

 1893, N. L. Britton and J. K. Small; in herbarium Columbia University 

 at the New York Botanical Garden." 



Shallow flowing streams, mostly in calcareous soil, Appalachians 

 of North Carolina and eastern Tennessee. Ranges from New Jer- 

 sey to North Carolina, Minnesota and Kentucky. 



Flowering in June and July, and soon ripening fruit. Corolla 

 pale-blue, with few deeper-blue lines. 



28. MACR ANTHER A Torrey. 

 Macranthera Torr.; Benth., Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. 

 Type species, Conradia fuchsioides Nutt. 



1. Macranthera flanunea (Bartram) Pennell. 



Gerardia flammea Bartram, Trav. 410. 1791. "Stony gravelly heights 

 [along Tensaw River near] Taensa" In Alabama. No type known to 

 exist. Identified by Mohr in Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb. 6: 15. 1901. 



Conradia fuchsioides Nutt., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 7: 88. pi. 12. 1834. 

 No locality given. T3'pe, without data, seen in Herb. Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences of Philadelphia. Type of genus Conradia Nutt., not Con- 

 radia Mart., 1829. 



Macranthera lecontei Torr., Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y. 4: 80. pi. 4. 1837. 



"In dry pine woods on the Alatamaha, in Liberty County, Georgia, Major 

 Le Conte!" Type, without data, seen in Herb. Columbia University 

 at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Dasystoma tubulosa Bertol., Mem. Accad. Sci. Instit. Bologna 4: 75. pi. 4. 

 1853. "Ex Alabama, Dr. Gates." Probable isotypes seen in Herb. 

 New York Botanical Garden, Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia and Gray Herbarium. 



Macranthera flammea (Bartram) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 124. 

 1913. 



Borders of wet sandy thickets, in the Coastal Plain, southern 

 Georgia and northern Florida to eastern Louisiana. 



Flowering from August to October, fruiting September and Oc- 

 tober. Corolla orange throughout. 



Pennell (Florida)— 4564, 4595, 4681. (Alabama)— 4406, 4459, 

 4462, 4534, 4553, 4641. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



29. DASISTOMA Raflnesque. 

 Dasistoma Raf., Journ. de Phys. 89: 99. 1819. 

 Type species, D. aurea Raf., of Kentucky. 



1. Dasistoma macrophylla (Nutt.) Raf. 



Seymeria macrophylla Nutt., Gen. N. Amer. PI. 2: 49. 1818. "Hab. 

 In shady alluvial soils of the banks of the Little Miami, near the town of 

 Lebanon." In Ohio. Specimen in Kew Herbarium labeled "Ohio 

 Nuttall misit Mart. 1824," may stand as the type; this seen. 



Dasistoma macrophylla (Nutt.) Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 67. 1837. 



Brachygyne macrophylla (Nutt.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1073, 1338. 1903. 

 Type of genus, Brachygyne Small. 



Sandy to clay soil, mostly in rich woods, usually along streams, 

 western North Carolina, » central Tennessee and northern Alabama. 

 Ranges from Ohio to eastern Nebraska, south to northern Alabama 

 and northeastern Texas. 



Flowering in July and August, fruiting August and September. 

 Corolla yellow, externally tinged or marked with purple-red. 



30. AFZELIA .1. F. Gmelin. 



Afzelia J. F. Gmel., Syst. 927. 1791. 



Type species, Anonymos cassioides Walt. 



Stem closely pubescent, viscid. Leaf -segments lanceolate or broader. 

 Calyx-lobes lanceolate. Corolla deep-yellow, externally pubes- 

 cent, its lobes ovate, 3-3.5 mm. wide. Distal portion of fila- 

 ment and connective of anther lanose. Anther-sacs opening 

 one-fifth to one-fourth length. Capsule ovate, 6-7 mm. long, 

 densely tomentose with short brown more or less glandular 

 hairs. Seeds winged. Plant low, 2-6 dm. tall, widely branched. 

 Stem lanose to pubescent with reflexed-incurved to -appressed 

 hairs. Pedicels 6-7 mm. long. Capsule densely glandular- 

 tomentose, with hairs dark-jointed, some of them glandular- 

 knobbed at tip. Seeds 1-1.2 mm. long. 



1. A. pedinata. 

 Stem finely pubescent to puberulent in lines with ascending- 

 incurved to -appressed hairs. Pedicels 7-10 mm. long. 

 Capsule less tomentose to nearly glabrous, with hairs slightly 

 dark-jointed, most or all of them glandular-knobbed at 

 tip. Seeds 1.2-1.4 mm. long. la. A. pectinata pemnsuJaris. 

 Stem sparingly pubescent, with ascending-incurved hairs, scarcely 

 glandular. Leaf-segments filiform. Calyx-lobes linear. Cor- 

 olla pale-yellow, externally glabrous, its lobes lanceolate, 1.5-2 

 mm. wide. Distal portion of filament and connective of anther 

 glabrous. Anther-sacs opening one-sixth to one-fifth length. 

 Capsule urceolate-acuminate, 4-4.5 mm. long, glabrous. Seeds 

 not winged, .5-.7 mm. long. Plant 5-10 dm. tall, virgately 

 branched. 2. A. cassioides. 



8 Reported from western North Carolina by Hyams, N. C. Coll. A. & M. 

 Arts, Bull. 164: 327. 1899. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



1. Afzelia pectinata (Pursh) Kuntze. 



Seymeria peclinata Pursh, Fl. Amer. Sept. 2: 737. 1814. " In South Caro- 

 lina. Catesby. v. s. in Herb. Sherard." Type not seen, but description 

 distinctive. 



Seymeria jacksoni Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 2: 123. 1824. "Sent to 

 me from Louisville, Ga., by Mr. Jackson." Tj^pe seen in the Elliott 

 Herbarium at the Charleston Museum. 



Seymeria heterophyla Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 68. 1837. "Alabama and 

 Georgia, my specimen from Le Conte." Type not known to exist. 



Afzelia pectinata (Pursh) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 1: 457. 1891. 



Dry sandy longleaf pineland, in the Coastal Plain from South 

 Carolina^° to Louisiana, south in the Florida peninsula to Brevard 

 County; inland reported from the Pine Mountains of Meriwether 

 County, Georgia, ^1 and from the metamorphic region of northeastern 

 Alabama. '2 



Flowering in August and September, fruiting September and 

 October. Corolla deep golden-yellow, more or less marked with 

 purple red within throat and at the bases of the lobes. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4732, 4760, 4780, 4845. (Florida)— 4568, 

 4585, 4645, 4656, 4674, 4686, 4705, 4715, 4802. (Alabama)— 4630. 



la. Afzelia pectinata peninsularis Pennell, var. nov. 



Stem 4-6 dm. tall, finely glandular-pubescent to -puberulent in 

 lines with ascending-incurved to -appressed hairs. Leaves glandu- 

 lar-pubescent to -puberulent, those of the stem 1-2 cm. long, 5-8 

 mm. wide. Pedicels in flower 5 mm. long, in fruit 7-10 mm. long. 

 Caljoc-lobes 4. 5. mm. long. Corolla 8 mm. long, its tube 3-3.5 mm, 

 long, its lobes 4.5 mm. long. Style 4-5 mm. long. Capsule min- 

 utel}' glandular-pubescent with hairs slightly dark-jointed, most or 

 all with terminal knob-like glands. Seeds 1.2-1.4 mm. long. 



Type, flat woods, Marco, Lee Co., Florida, collected in fruit July- 

 August, 1900, A. S. Hitchcock 254, in United States National Her- 

 barium. 



Flat long-leaf pineland or hammocks, southern Florida. 



Flowering June to August, probably flowering and fruiting through- 

 out the year. 



2. Afzelia cassioides (Walt.) J. F. Gmel. 



Anonymos cassioides Walt., Fl. Carol. 171. 1788. Presumably from lower 

 South Carolina. Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Afzelia cassioides (Walt.) J. F. Gmel., Syst. 927. 1791. 



Gerardia afzelia Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 2: 20. 1803. New name for Af- 

 zelia cassioides (Walt.) Gmel. 



Seymeria tenuifolia Pursh, Fl. Amer. Sept. 737. 1814. New name for 

 Gerardia cassioides (Walt.) Pers. 



" Reported from lower North Carolina, collected by Croom [see M. A. Curtis, 

 Bot. N. C. .39. 1867]. 



" Harper, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 36: 587. 1909. 

 i^Earle, Ala. Agric. Exp. Sta., Bull. 119: 104. 1902. 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Moist or dry pineland, usually in sandy soil, in the Coastal Plain 

 from North Carolina to Florida and Louisiana, in the Florida penin- 

 sula south to Manatee County; inland to the mountains of northern 

 Georgia, northern Alabama and eastern Tennessee; also on the 

 Bahamas. 



Flowering from September to mid-October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla pale-yellow, more or less marked with purple -red 

 within throat and at the bases of the lobes. 



Pennell (North CaroUna)— 4900, 4919. (South Carohna)— 4866, 

 4872, 4878. (Georgia)— 4725, 4743, 4762, 4809, 10173. (Florida)— 

 4588, 4649, 4653, 4678, 4691, 4713, 4719, 9647. (Alabama)— 4552, 

 4639. (Louisiana)— 4217. 



31. AUREOLARIA Raflnesque. 



Aureolaria Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 58. 1837. 



Type species, Aureolaria villosa Raf. 



Annuals. Stem, leaves and calyx glandular. Leaves bipinnatifid, 

 more or less pectinately cut. Calyx -lobes dentate to pectinate. 

 Corolla externally glandular-pubescent, within pubescent below 

 posterior sinus and over bases of posterior lobes; more or less 

 marked or tinged with purple-red. Anther-sacs 2.5-4 mm. 

 long. Capsule ellipsoid to broadly-ovoid in outline, glandular- 

 . puberulent to -pubescent. Seeds .8-1 mm. long, not winged. 



(Panctenis Raf.) 

 Leaves less sharply cut, with mostly rounded teeth, puberulent 

 to somewhat glandular-pubescent. Pedicels 10-28 mm. long. 

 Calyx-tube turbinate, glandular-puberulent externally. Cap- 

 sule narrowly to broadly ellipsoid, 9-15 mm. long, one-half 

 to two-thirds enclosed in the calyx-tube. Seeds .8 mm. long. 

 Stem closely pubescent above, not or slightly glandular. Leaves 

 puberulent, not or slightly glandular. Calyx-lobes 8-10 

 mm. long. Capsule narrowly ellipsoid, 9-11 mm. long. 

 Leaves 3-6 cm. long, more strongly cut, incisions extending 

 mostly about two-thirds distance to midrib, not or 

 scarcely glandular. Pedicels permanently more or less 

 glandular-pubescent. Calyx-tube 4-5 mm. long. Stem 

 closely pubescent, not or scarcely glandular above. 



1. A. pedicular ia. 

 Leaves 2-3.5 cm. long, less cut, incisions extending mostly 

 about one-half distance to midrib, slightly glandular. 

 Pedicels tending to become nearly glabrous. Calyx- 

 tube 5-7 mm. long. Stem from nearly glabrous to 

 slightly glandular. la. A. pedicularia carolinensis. 



Stem glandular-pubescent to hirsute above. Leaves glandular- 

 puberulent to -pubescent. Calyx-lobes 10-16 mm. long, 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



relatively deeply lobed. Capsule broadly ellipsoid, 11-14 

 mm. long. lb. A. pedicularia austromontana. 



Leaves more sharply cut, with acute or acutish teeth, glandular- 

 pubescent to -villose. Pedicels 4-20 mm. long. Calyx-tube 

 hemispheric, glandular-hirsute to -lanose. Capsule broadly 

 ovoid, 11-16 mm. long, only its base enclosed in the calyx- 

 tube. Seeds 1 mm. long. 

 Stem stiffly branched. Leaves all spreading, the upper smaller 

 but not excessively reduced, those of the stem 2-6 cm. 

 long. Pedicels 4-20 mm. long, conspicuous when in flower. 

 Calyx-tube glandular-hirsute to -lanose. Corolla 30-40 

 mm. long. Anther-sacs ovate. 



2. A. pectinata. 

 Stem virgately branched. Leaves, at least the upper, appressed- 

 ascending, uppermost leaves very much reduced, those of 

 the stem 1.5-3 (-4) cm. long. Pedicels 4-9 mm. long, 

 usually very short when in flower. Calyx-tube glandular- 

 lanose. Corolla 38-45 mm. long. Anther-sacs lanceolate- 

 ovate 2a. A. pectinata floridana. 

 Perennials. Not glandular. Leaves entire to somewhat coarsely 

 bipinnatifid, not pectinately cut. Calyx-lobes entire to dentate. 

 Corolla externally glabrous, within glabrous or difTused-pubes- 

 cent; not marked nor tinged with purple-red. Anther-sacs 

 4-6 mm. long. Capsule ovate to globose ovate in outline, 

 not glandular. Seeds 1.3-2.7 mm. long, strongly winged. 



(Aweolaria, sensu strictu.) 

 Capsule densely rusty-pubescent. Pedicels 1.5-3 mm. long. 

 Stem puberulent to pubescent, at least above. 

 Stem puberulent to pubescent throughout. Leaves perma- 

 nently downy-pubescent. Capsule 12-15 mm. long. Seeds 

 1.5-1.8 mm. long 3. A. virginica. 



Stem glabrous below, more or less puberulent above. Leaves 

 puberulent becoming glabrous. Capsule 9-12 mm. long. 

 Seeds 1.3-1.5 mm. long. 4. A. ynicrocarpa. 



Capsule glabrous. Pedicels 3-25 mm. long. Stem glabrous to 

 minutely puberulent. 

 Bracts entire to finely crenate-serrate. Pedicels slender, 15- 



25 mm. long. 5. A. patula. 



Bracts entire to coarsely dentate. Pedicels stouter, 3-15 mm. 

 long. 

 Lower leaves ovate-lanceolate in general outline, widest about 

 the middle, not long-acuminate. Petioles evident, mostly 

 10-30 mm. long. Pedicels 5-15 mm. long. Calyx densely 

 pubescent within. Corolla 35-60 mm. long. Capsule 

 12-24 mm. long. Seeds 2-2.7 mm. long. Stem rela- 

 tively stout, frequently purple. 

 Stem finely puberulent, not glaucous. Pedicels and calyx 

 externally puberulent. Anther-sacs ovate. 



6. A. dispersa. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Stem glabrous, glaucous. Pedicels and calyx externally 

 glabrous. Anther-sacs ovate-lanceolate. 

 Stem slightly glaucous. Lower leaves from nearly en- 

 tire to more or less dentate or cut, rarely | distance 

 to midrib. 7a. A. flava reticulata. 



Stem quite glaucous. Lower leaves more or less pin- 

 nately cut, lowermost somewhat bipinnatifid, mostly 

 over I distance to midrib. 



7. A. flava. 

 Lower leaves lanceolate to ovate-lanceolate, widest below 

 the middle, long-acuminate. Petioles very short, less 

 than 10 mm. long. Pedicels 3-8 mm. long. Calyx 

 sparingly pubescent to glabrous within. Corolla 30-35 

 mm. long. Capsule 10-12 mm. long. Seeds 1.5-1.7 

 mm. long. Stem slender, rarely purplish, not puberu- 

 lent nor glaucous. 8 A. laevigata. 



1. Aureolaria pedicularia (L.) Raf. 



Gerardia pedicularia L., Sp. PI. 611. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Can- 

 ada." Type not verified, but description sufficiently distinctive. 

 Aureolaria pedicularia Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 61. 1837. 



Dry oak-woods, sandy or rocky, perhaps in the Piedmont of 

 North Carolina. 1^ Ranges from Maine to Virginia (and Minnesota. 



Flowering in August and September, fruiting September and 

 October. Corolla yellow, externally more or less tinged with red- 

 dish, within at times with some purple-red spotting. 



la. Aureolaria pedicularia carolinensis Pennell. 



Aureolaria pedicularia carolinensis Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 413. 

 1913. ''Type, savannahs near Mill Pond, Wilmington, Xorth Carolina, 

 June 23, 1909, J. M. Macfarlane in Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Dry sandy oak and mixed woods, pine -barrens of southeastern 

 North Carolina. 



Pennell (North Carolina)— 4925. 

 lb. Aureolaria pedicularia austromontana Pennell, var. no v. 



Stem glandular-pubescent to -hirsute above, with spreading short 

 hairs, and among these, usually outnumbering them and exceeding 

 them in length, gland tipped hairs, so that stem is very glandular. 

 Leaf-blades tending to lanceolate ovate, mostly deeply and sharply 

 cut, finely puberulent with gland tipped hairs, more rarely evidently 

 glandular-pubescent. Pedicels in flower 10-20 mm. long, in fruit 

 (12-) 18-25 mm. long. Calyx relatively sparingly pubescent with 

 gland-tipped hairs, its lobes 10-16 mm. long, linear-lanceolate to 

 lanceolate, relatively deeply lobed. Capsule 11-14 mm. long, 

 broadly ellipsoid. 



^'^ Aureolaria pedicularia caesariensis Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 413, 

 1913, with leaves 1.2-5 cm. long, pedicels longer than bracts and stem not 

 glandular hirsute below, has been found in woodland in Orange Co., X. C. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Tj^pe, Biltmore, North Carolina, collected in flower August 27, 

 1897, Biltmore Herbarium 481; in United States National Her- 

 barium. 



Dry oak or mixed woodland, on mountain-slopes, eastern and 

 western Appalachians, from southwestern Virginia and southeastern 

 Kentucky to northern Georgia. 



This differs from Aureolaria pedicularia amhigens (Fernald) Far- 

 well of the southern Lake region in its leaves narrower, more deeply 

 and sharply cut, and its calyx-lobes longer and more deeply lobed. 



Pennell (Tennessee) — 5725. 



2. Aureolaria pectinata (Nutt.) Pennell. 



Gerardia pedicularia pectinata Nutt., Gen. PI. N. Amer. 2: 46. 1818. "Hab. 

 In the sandy pine forests of Carolina and Georgia." Specimen of Nuttall's 

 collecting in the British Museum, labeled "Gerardia millefolia S. Carol.?" 

 may represent the type. It is determined by Dr. S. Moore as the form 

 now considered, agreeing with my number 5638 from Louisiana. 



Aureolaria pectinata (Nutt.) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 414. 1913. 



Dry sandy pine and oak lands, especially hilly, through the Coastal 

 Plain from South Carolina to northwestern Florida and Louisiana; 

 extending inland on sandy soils (as the granite of central Georgia), 

 to westernmost North Carolina and eastern Tennessee, and through 

 the Mississippi Valley westward in our area. Ranges northwest- 

 ward to Kentucky and southern Missouri. The inland forms have 

 larger leaves and fruit, and probably represent several geographic 

 varieties, an enumeration of which will be given in the writer's 

 "Agalinis and Allies in North America." 



Flowering from July to October, fruiting in September and Oc- 

 tober. Corolla yellow, externally more or less tinged with reddish, 

 within not marked with purple -red. 



Pennell (Georgia)^066, 5694, 5695, 5700, 5708, 5713. (Ala- 

 bama)— 4532, 4625, 5689. (Tennessee)— 5707, 5716. 



2b. Aureolaria pectinata floridana Pennell. 



Aureolaria pectinata floridana Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 414. 1913. 

 "Type, Fort Gadsden, Franklin Co., Florida, Sept. 20, 1912, F. W. Pen- 

 nell 4683, in Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Dry sandy pineland, through the flatwoods of southern Georgia 



to central Florida. 



Pennell (Georgia)^724. (Florida)— 4683. 



3. Aureolaria virginica (L.) Pennell. 



Rhinanthus virginicus L., Sp. PI. 603. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." 

 Type, Clayton 488, is identified by Dr. S. F. Blake, in Rhodora 20: 66. 

 1918, as the plant here considered. 



Aureolaria villosa Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 59. 1837. No type locality 

 stated, nor type known to exist. Description sufficiently distinctive. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Dasysloma pubescens Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 520. 1846. "In Americae 

 sept, civitatibus orientalibus frequens." Type not verified, but descrip- 

 tion sufficiently distinctive. 



Dasystonm brachycarpa Small, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 28: 452. 1901. "The 

 specimens on which this species is based were collected by the writer on 

 the slopes of Stone Mountain, Georgia, Sept. 6-12, 1894." Type seen 

 in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. Also collected by myself at 

 Stone Mountain, Pennell 4050, 5692. The short capsules of this plant 

 are quite within the normal range of variation of Aureolaria virgmica. 



Aureolaria virginica (L.) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 409. 1913. 



Dry open woods, usually sandy, frequent through the Piedmont 

 and eastern Appalachians south to central Georgia, less common 

 through the western Appalachians and Mississippi Vallej^ of our 

 area; occasional in the Coastal Plain south to northern Florida and 

 west to Louisiana. Ranges from New Hampshire, south to Florida 

 and Louisiana. This species has been long known as "Gerardia 

 flava." 



Flowering from late May to July, fruiting from July to Septem- 

 ber. Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4050, 4070, 4090, 5691, 5692, 5697, 5702. 

 (Tennessee) — 5724. 

 4. Aureolaria microcarpa Pennell, sp. nov. 



Perennial. Stem 6-10 dm. tall, simple or with stiff ascending 

 branches above, below glabrous, above less or more densely puberu- 

 lent with recurved-spreading dark-jointed hairs. Petioles more or 

 less defined from the narrowed base of the leaves. Lower leaves 

 lanceolate-ovate, somewhat deeply and coarsely sinuate -lobed or 

 merely shallowly dentate, 6-11 cm. long, 15-40 mm. wide; upper 

 leaves gradually smaller and simpler, bracts ovate -lanceolate; leaves 

 above scabrous-puberulent, beneath softly puberulent, becoming 

 nearly or quite glabrous, above dull-green, beneath paler. Pedicels 

 stout, closely pubescent, in flower 1-2 mm. long, in fruit 2-3 mm. 

 long. Calyx externally closely puberulent, its tube 3-5 mm. long, 

 turbinate, within puberulent, its lobes 3.5-7 mm. long, lanceolate 

 to spatulate-ovate, acute to acutish. Corolla 30-40 mm. long, its 

 tube inflated ventrally, its lobes 5-10 mm. long, ovate-orbicular, 

 rounded; externally glabrous, within sparingly pubescent proximally, 

 but glabrous below sinuses of lobes; yellow, with no tinge of purple- 

 red. Filaments slender, flattened, posterior 13-17 mm. long, an- 

 terior 18-23 mm. long, all loosely lanose near base and again distally, 

 especially close to the apex; anther-sacs 4-4.5 mm. long, ovate, 

 broadly narrowed at apex into a rigid downcurved awn .8-.9 mm. 

 long; sacs lanose-pubescent with retrorse white hairs. Style 25-30 

 mm. long. Capsule 9-12 mm. long, ovate to globose-ovate in out- 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



line, acute to acuminate, brownish, densely rusty-pubescent with 

 reflexed-appressed brown hairs. Seeds 1.3-1.5 mm. long, broadly 

 angular-lunate, flattened; testa gray, with reticulations dark, pro- 

 duced on outer side into several thin wings ^\ diameter of seed. 



Type, Stevenson, Jackson Co., Alabama, collected in fruit Oc- 

 tober 17, 1913, F. W. Pennell 5720, in Herb. University of Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Dry oak-woods, on siliceous soil, southeastern Tennessee to south- 

 ern Alabama and northwestern Florida, especially in the southern 

 Cumberland ]Mountains. 



Flowering from earh^ June to late August, fruiting August to 

 October. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 5711. (Alabama)— 5720, 9739, 9742. (Ten- 

 nessee) — ^5703, 5706, 5715. 



5. Aureolaria patula (Chapm.) Pennell. comb. nov. 



Dasystoma patula Chapm. Bot. Gaz. 3: 10. 1878. "Valley of the Coosa 

 River, near Rome, Georgia." Several collections of Chapman's seen, 

 one labeled "Banks of Horse-leg Creek, a tributary of the Coosa River," 

 in Herb. New York Botanical Garden, may stand as the type. 



Wooded bluffs along rivers, central and eastern Tennessee, and 

 northwestern Georgia. 



Flowering from August to October. Corolla j^ellow, with no 

 tinge of purple -red. 



Pennell (Tennessee) — 5722. 



6. Aureolaria dispersa (Small) Pennell. 



Dasystoma dispersa Small, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 28: 452. 1901. "Louisi- 

 ana: Feliciana, Carpenter; type in the herbarium of Columbia Univer- 

 sity." Type seen in Herb. Columbia University at the Xew York Bo- 

 tanical Garden. 



Aureolaria dispersa (Small) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 411. 1913. 



Sandy thickets and oak-land, pineland from southern Alabama 

 to Louisiana. 



Flowering in August and September, fruiting in October. 



Pennell (Alabama) — 4504, 4521. (Mississippi) — 4384. (Louisi- 

 ana)— 4117, 4245. 



7. Aureolaria flava (L.) Farwell. 



Gerardia flava L., Sp. PI. 610. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada." 



Specimen in Linnean Herbarium identified by Bentham; see in Comp. 



Bot. Mag. 1: 198. 1836. 

 Gerardia quercifolia Pursh, Fl. Amer. Sept. 2: 423. pi. 19. 1814. "On the 



banks of rivers in rich shady places: Pensylvania to Carolina." Tj'pe 



not verified, but description sufficiently distinctive. 

 Aureolaria flava (L.) Farwell, Rep. Mich. Acad. Sci. 20: 188. 1918. 



Oak woodland, usually on rocky hillsides, loam or sometimes 



sandy soil, nearly throughout above the Fall-Line, common in the 



19 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



southern Appalachians; scarcely entering the southern Coastal Plain, 

 where it passes into the following variety. In the southwestern 

 Appalachians and westward, largely replaced by several ill-defined 

 varieties, to be characterized in the writer's monograph of this 

 group. This species has been known as ''Gerardia virginica" and 

 '' Dasy stoma virginica." 



Flowering from mid -July to mid-September, fruiting late August 

 to October. Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple -red. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4109, 5693, 5712. (Alabama)— 5688, 9728, 

 9750. (Tennessee) — 5704, 5718. 



7a. Aureolaria flava reticulata (Raf.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Aureoiaria reticulata Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 59. 1837. "Florida and 

 Alabama." No type known to exist. 



Dasy stoma bignoniiflora Small, Bull. N. Y. Bot. Gard. 1 : 285. 1899. "Col- 

 lected by Dr. Burrows, at Tampa Bay, Florida, in 1834." Type seen 

 in Herb. Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Sandy ravines and moist woodland, in the Coastal Plain from 

 Maryland to central Florida. Replaces the species in the southern 

 Coastal Plain. 



Flowering from late-August to mid-October, fruiting in Septem- 

 ber and October, 



Pennell (South Carolina)— 4875. (Georgia)— 4723, 4765. (Flor- 

 ida)^565, 4566, 4696, 4698, 4720, 9703. 



8. Aureolaria laevigata (Raf.) Raf. 



Gerardia levigata Raf., Ann. Nat. 13. 1820. "It gi'ows on the knob 

 hills of Kentucky, the Cumberland mountains and the Alleghany." 

 Specimen in Herb. Columbia University at the New York Botanical 

 Garden labeled in Rafinesque's handwriting "Gerardia — n. sp. — Ken- 

 tucky," may be the type. Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Aureolaria levigata (Raf.) Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 59. 1837. 



Rocky oak-woods, along streams or on mountain-sides, frequent 

 or common through the Appalachians south to northwestern South 

 Carolina and eastern Tennessee. Ranges northward to Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



Flowering from late July to early September, fruiting in Septem- 

 ber and October. Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. 



Pennell (Tennessee)— 5721, 5726, 9791. 



32. AGALINIS Raflnesque. 



Agalinis Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 61. 1837. 



Type species, A. palustris Raf. 



Perennial, from a running rootstock. Pedicels erect. Corolla 

 slightly fleshy, pink with darker spots, but with no yellow lines 

 within throat. {Linifolice.) 1. A. Unifolia. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Annuals, fibrous-rooted. Pedicels ascending or spreading. Corolla 

 membranous, rose-pink, mostly with darker spots and two yellow 

 lines within throat on the anterior side. 

 Corolla with lobes all spreading, pubescent within at base of 

 posterior lobes, externally more or less pubescent. 

 Seeds dark-brown. Plants tending to blacken in drying. Calyx- 

 tube not decidedly reticulate -venose. {PurpureoB.) 

 Leaves uniform, linear to filiform-linear. 



Inflorescence of elongated normal racemes; pedicels less 

 than 12 mm. long. Seed-coat with dark-brown ridges, 

 between which mostly paler and minutely reticulate. 

 Leaves and calyx-lobes obtuse to acutish. Anther-sacs 

 obtuse to acutish at distal apex. Plant fleshy, 

 bushy-branched below with elongated racemes above. 

 Pedicels 5-12 mm. long. 2. A. spiciflora. 



Leaves and calyx-lobes acute to acuminate. Anther- 

 sacs mucronate to caudate at distal apex. Plants 

 not fleshy, more uniformly branched. Pedicels .5- 

 5 (-8) mm. long. 

 Corolla rose-pink to pink, two yellow lines and almost 

 always darker spots within throat evident. Cap- 

 sule 4-7 mm. long. Plants dull-green or purplish. 

 Stem smooth or minutely scabrellous. Axillary 

 fascicles not or slightly developed, if present 

 shorter than the leaves. Seeds .6-1.5 mm. long. 

 Corolla 20-38 mm. long, deeper rose-pink. 



Axillary fascicles slightly developed. Pedicels 

 3-8 mm. long. Seeds .9-1.5 mm. long; 

 areas between reticulations mostly paler, 

 and intrareticular lines discernible. 

 Stem relatively stiffly branched, sparingly 

 scabrellous. Calyx-lobes triangular- 

 lanceolate to -subulate. Corolla 20-38 

 mm. long. 3. A. purpurea. 



Stem slender, virgately branched, glabrous. 

 Calyx-lobes triangular-subulate to subu- 

 late. Corolla 20-25 mm. long. 



4. A. virgata. 

 Axillary fascicles scarcely or not developed. 



Pedicels 2-3 mm. long. Seeds .9-1 mm. 

 long; areas between reticulations nearly 

 black, and no intrareticular lines discernible. 



5. A. pinetorum. 

 Corolla 15-18 mm. long, paler rose-pink. Flowers 



nearly sessile, on pedicels less than 2 mm. 

 long. 6. A. harperi. 



Stem more or less scabrous. Axillary fascicles usu- 

 ally abundantly developed, mostly equaling the 

 leaves. Seeds .5-. 8 mm. long. 



7. A.fasciculata. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Corolla lavender-pink, no yellow lines nor darker 

 spots evident within throat. Capsule 3.5-5 mm. 

 long. Plant bright-green, little darkening in dry- 

 ing. Stem smooth or nearly so. Axillary fas- 

 cicles abundantly developed. 



8. A. georgiana. 

 Inflorescence usually of short or much broken racemes 



(if elongated and normal, pedicels over 10 mm. long), 

 usually some flowers by slower or arrested growth of 

 stem-apex appearing terminal. Pedicels 5-50 mm. 

 long. 

 Stem scabrous. Corolla pubescent within in narrow line 

 l^elow sinus of posterior lobes. Anther-sacs strongly 

 mucronate-caudate at distal apex, densely lanose 

 with pink hairs on the sides. Seed-coat with dark- 

 brown reticulations, areas between these more or less 

 hexagonal, pale and not reticulated. Stem-leaves 

 opposite, axillary fascicles abundantly developed. 

 Pedicels 25-40 mm. long. Corolla 25 3C ::im. long. 



9. A. pulchella. 

 Stem glabrous or essentially so. Corolla pubescent 



within over entire width of basal portions of pos- 

 terior lobes. Anther-sacs acute to minutely mucron- 

 ate-caudate at distal apex, glabrous over much of 

 dorsal surface. Seed-coat with dark-brown reticu- 

 lations, areas between these elongated, scarcely 

 paler, and scarcely or not reticulated. 

 Stem-leaves alternate, widening distally, slightly fleshy. 

 Axillary fascicles abundantly developed. Stigma 

 3.5-5.5 mm. long. Pedicels 20-35 mm. long. 

 Corolla 22-28 mm. long. 



10. A.filifolia. 

 Stem-leaves all opposite, not widening distally, not 



fleshy. Axillary fascicles not or scarcely devel- 

 oped. Stigma 1-2 mm. long. 

 Branches very widely and laxly ascending. Pedicels 

 25-50 mm. long, very slender, four or five times 

 as long as the bracts. Corolla 15-18 mm. long, 

 paler rose-pink. Seeds .3-.5 mm. long. 



11. A. loxa. 

 Branches more closely and stiffly ascending. Pedi- 

 cels 4-40 mm. long, less than twice as long as 

 the bracts. Corolla 15-30 mm. long, deeper 

 rose-pink. Seeds .5-.9 mm. long. 



Leaves 2-3.5 cm. long, equaling or exceeding the 



internodes, slightly scabrous to glabrous 



above. 



Pedicels 15-40 mm. long, longer than the bracts. 



Calyx-tube |-1 the length of the capsule. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Corolla mostly 17-25 mm. long. Capsule 

 3-4 mm. long. Seeds .5-.6 mm. long. 

 Leaves sparingly scabrous to glabrous 

 above. 

 Leaves narrowly linear to filiform, .3-1.5 mm. 

 wide. Racemes mostly somewhat de- 

 veloped, so flowers not conspicuously 

 "terminal." Pedicels 15-40 mm. long. 

 ::• Calyx-lobes .2-.5 mm. long. Corolla 18- 



25 mm. long. Seeds rounded, turgid, 

 with reticulations very fine, relatively 

 close. 12. A. holmiana. 



Leaves filiform-setaceous, .1-.3 mm. wide. 

 Racemes scarcely developed, so flowers 

 conspicuously "terminal." Pedicels 15- 

 20 mm. long. Calyx-lobes .1-.3 mm. 

 long. Corolla 17-20 mm. long. Seeds 

 angled, with reticulations less fine and 

 more remote. 



13. A. stenophylla. 

 Pedicels 5-10 (-15) mm. long, shorter than or 

 equaling the bracts. Calyx-tube f-| the 

 length of the capsule. Corolla mostly 25- 

 30 mm. long. Capsule 4-5 mm. long. 

 Seeds .6-.8 mm. long. Leaves slightly 

 scabrous above. Flowers conspicuously 

 "terminal." 14. A. setacea. 



Leaves .5-1.2 cm. long, shorter than the inter- 

 nodes, scabrous above. Corolla 15-22 mm. 

 long. 

 Stem slightly striate-four-angled, sparingly scab- 

 rellous to glabrous. Leaves filiform, .8-1.2 

 cm. long. Pedicels 4-6 mm. long, about 

 equaling the bracts. Calyx-lobes not be- 

 coming callose. 15. A. keyensis. 

 Stem nearly terete, striate-ridged, minutely 

 hispidulo-roughened on the ridges. Leaves 

 linear-subulate, .5-1 cm. long. Pedicels 

 4-15 mm. long, three to six times the length 

 of the bracts. Calyx-lobes becoming more 

 or less callose. 16. A. oligophylla. 

 Leaves dimorphic, those near the base of the stem oval ovate, 

 spreading, the cauline minute, scale-like, appressed. 

 Pedicels 1.5-3 mm. long (many flowers appearing to 

 terminate minute axillary branchlets) . Calyx-lobes min- 

 ute, subulate, callose. Corolla 15-20 mm. long. Stem 

 striate-four-angled, ridged, minutely hispidulo-roughened 

 on the ridges, often pubescent at base. 



17. A. aphylla. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Seeds yellowish-brown. Plants not tending to blacken in dry- 

 ing. Calyx-tube evidently reticulate-venose. (Erectce.) 

 Stem evidently striate-four-angled, simple to modei^ately 

 branched. Leaves linear to nearly filiform, 1-2,5 cm. 

 long. Racemes well-developed, so flowers not conspicu- 

 ously "terminal." Stigma 1-2 mm. long. 

 Leaves linear to nearly filiform, not widening distally, 

 acutish to acuminate. Corolla with two yellow lines 

 and purple -red spots within throat strongly defined. 

 Capsule globose to globose-ovoid, somewhat flattened 

 at base. 

 Leaves 2-2.5 cm. long, filiform-linear, relatively scabrous 

 above. Pedicels one to three times the length of the 

 bracts. Corolla 13-15 mm. long. Seeds .6-.8 mm. 

 long. 18. A. decemloba. 



Leaves 1-1.5 (-2) cm. long, linear-filiform to nearly fili- 

 form, slightly scabrous above. Pedicels mostly three 

 to eight times the length of the bracts. Corolla 15- 

 20 mm. long. Seeds .9-1.1 mm. long. 



19. A. tenella. 

 Leaves linear, widening distally, acutish to obtuse, 1-1.5 

 (-1.8) cm. long. Corolla with lines and spots within 

 throat faint or obsolete. Capsule globose-ovoid to 

 globose-elliptic, rounded at base. Corolla 12-16 mm. 

 long. 20. A. ereda. 



Stem nearly terete, much branched. Leaves narrowly linear, 

 2-3 cm. long. Racemes scarcely developed, so flow^ers 

 scattered and conspicuously "terminal." Stigma 2-3 

 mm. long. Corolla 12-18 mm. long. 



21. A. gattingeri. 

 Corolla with posterior lobes arched over stamens and style, glab- 

 rous within at their base. (Tenuifob'ce.) 

 Corolla pubescent externally, its posterior lobes about two- 

 thirds the length of the anterior, minutely ciliate, concave- 

 arched. Pedicels, if exceeding the bracts, less than twice 

 their length. Corolla 10-23 mm. long, rose-pink. Leaves 

 linear. 

 Corolla 15-23 mm. long. 22a. A. tenuifolia leucanthera. 



Corolla 10-15 mm. long. 



Leaves linear, 1-6 mm. w^ide, those of the stem obviously 

 wider than those of the branches. 

 Calyx-lobes mostly 1-2 mm. long. Capsule mostly 5-7 

 mm. long. Seeds .7-1.3 mm. long, with reticulations 

 more pronounced. Leaves 1-6 mm. wide. 



22b. A . tenuifolia macrophylla. 

 Calyx-lobes mostly less than 1 mm. long. Capsule 

 mostly 3-4 mm. long. Seeds .6-.9 mm. long, with 

 reticulations very fine. Leaves 1-3.5 mm. wide. 



22. A. tenuifolia. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Leaves linear-filiform to filiform, .3-1 mm. wide, those of 

 the stem scarcely wider than those of the branches. 



22c. -4. tenuifolia polyphylla. 

 Corolla glabrous externally, its posterior lobes less than one- 

 half the length of the anterior, conspicuously ciliate, flat- 

 tened. Pedicels at least three times the length of the 

 bracts. 

 Leaves filiform, those of the stem 1.5-2 cm. long. Racemes 

 well-developed, so flowers not appearing "terminal." 

 Pedicels 20-32 mm. long, three to twelve times the length 

 of the bracts. Corolla 15-18 mm. long, rose-pink. 

 Plant widely much branched. 



23. A. cUvaricata. 

 Leaves minute, triangular-subulate, .1-.2 cm. long. Flowers 

 scattered, mostly appearing "terminal." Pedicels 6-10 

 mm. long, many times the length of the bracts. Cor- 

 olla 10-13 mm. long, lavender-pink. Plant sparingly 

 very laxly branched. 24. A. filicauUs. 



1. Agalinis linifolia (Nutt.) Britton. 



Gerardia linifolia Nutt., Gen. PI. N. Amer. 2: 47. 1818. "Hab. From 

 Wilmington, North Carolina, to Florida." Tj^pe, labeled "Carolina," 

 and collected by T. Nuttall, seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



Agalinis perennis Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 63. 1837. "My specimen is 

 from Florida." Type not known to exist, but description quite dis- 

 tinctive. 



Agalinis linifolia (Nutt.) Britton; Britton & Brown, 111. Fl. ed. II. 3: 209. 

 1913. 



Wet sandy pineland, usually about margins of ponds in long- 

 leaf pineland, in the Coastal Plain from North Carolina to southern 

 Florida and west to Louisiana. Northward occurs in southern 

 Delaware. 



Flowering from mid-August to October, fruiting September to 

 November. Corolla pink, with no yellow lines but with diffused 

 purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4729, 4745, 4790, 4823. (Florida)— 4600, 

 4648, 4654, 4666, 4690, 4714, 4794, 4807, 4813. 



2. Agalinis spiciflora (Engelm.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Gerardia maritima grandiflora Bentb., Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 208. 1836. 

 "Texas, Drummond, (1st Coll.)" Type in Kew Herbarium verified by 

 Dr. N. E. Brown as agreeing -with my number 4702 from Florida; isotype 

 seen in Herb. Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Gerardia spiciflora Engelm., Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist. 5: 227. 1845. New 

 name for Gerardia maritima grandiflora Benth. 



Gerardia maritima major Chapm., Fl. S. Un. St. 300. 1860. "Brackish 

 marshes, Apalachicola, Florida." Different collections of this, made by 

 Dr. Chapman, seen. 



Salt marshes, along the coast from North Carolina to Texas. 



Ranges through the West Indies and on the shore of Yucatan. Prob- 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ably not specifically distinct from the northern smaller ally, A. 

 maritima (Raf.) Raf. 



Flowering from March to September, and soon ripening fruit; 

 in subtropical Florida flowering and fruiting throughout the year. 

 Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and many small purple-red spots 

 within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Florida)— 4702, 9550, 9561. 



3. Agalinis purpurea (L.) Pennell. 



Gerardia purpurea L., Sp. PI. 610. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada." 

 Linnean diagnosis includes long- and short-pediceled plants, so could 

 include any pink (= "purple") flowered species. The first citation ac- 

 companied by a figure, Plukenet's Digitalis virginiana rubra, foliis <fc 

 facie Antirrhini vulgaris, evidently the prevalent plant of the Atlantic 

 seaboard, is considered as the type. 



Agalinis palustri^ Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 62. 1837. "Near marshes. 

 . . . From New England to Carolina." Type not known to exist, 

 but characterization evidently of the common species of the Atlantic 

 seaboard. 



?Agali7iiscorymbosa'Raf.,].c.G3. 1837. "Carolina and Florida." Type 

 not known to exist; either the species now considered or a near ally. 



Agalinis purpurea (L.) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 126. 1913. 



Moist sandy soil, edges of salt-marsh, of ponds or of rivers, de- 

 pressions in sand-dunes, or locally on barren soil, common and 

 locally abundant through the Coastal Plain, especially near the 

 coast, along rivers and sand-hills, locally absent or replaced by 

 derivitive species in the longleaf pine belt; southward in a modi- 

 fied form to extreme southern Florida; inland much less frequent, 

 although ascending river-valleys into the southern Appalachians. 

 Ranges from Massachusetts to Florida, Minnesota, Nebraska and 

 Texas. 



Flowering from mid-July to mid-September, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla rose -pink, with two yellow lines and many small 

 diffused purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (North Carohna)— 4914, 4927, 4932, 4948. (South Caro- 

 lina)— 4850, 4854, 4869, 4876. (Georgia)— 4735a, 4746, 4753,, 4758, 

 4767, 4769, 4784, 4811. (Florida)— 4703, 4799, 4806. (Mississ- 

 ippi)- — 4357. 



4. Agalinis virgata Raf. 



Agalinis virgata Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 62. 1837. "Glades of pine woods 

 in South New Jersey near Mullica Hill, etc." Type not known to exist. 



Moist sandy pine barrens, in the Coastal Plain south to South 

 Carolina. Ranges northward to Long Island. 



Flowering from September to mid -October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and diffused purple-red 

 spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (North Carolina)— 4902, 4921. (South Carolina)— 4877. 




/ 



1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



5. Agalinis pinetorum Pennell. 



Agalinis pinetorum Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 424. 1913. "Type, 

 St. Marks, Wakulla Co., Florida, Sept. 26,- 1912, F. W. Pennell 4708, 

 in Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Agalinis delicatula Pennell, 1. c. 425. 1913. "Type, Ponce de Leon, 

 Holmes Co., Florida, Sept. 17, 1912, F. W. Pennell 4661 in Herb. Uni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania." A distinct-seeming plant, with leaves more 

 slender, filiform, curling in drying, and corolla within not spotted with 

 purple-red. Until known from other stations not maintained as a species. 



Moist soil in longleaf pineland, and on coastal prairie, southern 

 Georgia and northern Florida to Louisiana. 



Flowering in September and October, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and purple red spots within 

 throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4734, 4738, 4750, 4770, 4771, 4773, 4775, 4781, 

 4791. (Florida)— (4661 delicatula), 4688, 4708, 4795. 



6. Agalinis harperi Pennell. 



Agalinis harperi Pennell; Small, Fl. Miami 167, 200. 1913. "Type, St. 

 Marks, Wakulla County, Florida, F. W. Pennell 4707." Type, collected 

 September 25, 1912, seen in Herb. University of Pennsylvania. 



]\Ioist sandy pineland and borders of salt-marshes, longleaf pine- 

 land, from southern Georgia south to the Everglades of southern 

 Florida. Also on the Bahamas. 



Flowering northward from mid-September to October, and soon 

 ripening fruit, southward flowering and fruiting throughout the 

 year. Corolla pale rose-pink, with two yellow lines and small purple- 

 red spots mostly along these lines within throat anteriorly. This 

 has been confused with the northern ''Gei-ardia paupercula.^' 



Pennell (Georgia)-^726, 4810. (Florida)— 4701, 4707, 4711. 



7. Agalinis fasciculata (Ell.) Raf. 



Gerardia fasciculata Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 2: 115. 1822. "Grows 

 principally in lands subject to occasional inundation from the ocean 

 . . . on Eding's Island near Beaufort very common." Type seen in 

 the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum. 



Agalinis fasciculata (Ell.) Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 63. 1837. 



Moist to dry sandy loam or clay soil, in depressions among sand- 

 dunes, edges of salt-marsh, or loam soil in limestone districts; 

 the only species of cultivated fields; locally common through the 

 Coastal Plain from South Carolina to southern Florida and west- 

 ward near the Gulf Coast. Ranges westward to Texas and south- 

 ern Missouri. In southern Florida represented by a variant with 

 less scabrous stem. 



Flowering from August to October and soon ripening fruit. Cor- 

 olla pink, with two yellow lines and many diffused purple-red spots 

 within throat anteriorly. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Pennell (North Carolina)— 4949. (South Carolina)— 4849, 4860, 

 4863, 4868. (Georgia)— 4735, 4740, 4747, 4751, 4755, 4761, 4766, 

 4772, 4792, 4818. (Florida)— 4669, 4675, 4680, 4695, 4697, 4706, 

 4717, 4718, 4793, 9544, 9562. (Mississippi)— 4356, 4370. (Louisi- 

 ana)— 4267, 4276, 4303, 4304, 4330. 



8. Agalinis georgiana (Boynton) Pennell. 



Gerardia georgiana Boynton, Biltm. Bot. Stud. 1: 148. 1902. "In the 

 pine barrens near Cordele, Dooly County, Georgia, in September, 1901. 

 . . . In moist sandy soil in pine barrens. . . . The type speci- 

 mens are deposited in the Biltmore Herbarium." Type, collected Sept. 

 18, 1901, seen in the Biltmore Herbarium. 



Agalinis georgiana (Boynton) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 427. 1913. 



Dry sandy or clay soil, in longleaf pineland, southern Georgia, 

 southern Alabama and northern Florida. 



Flowering from mid- to late-September, and soon ripening fruit.. 

 Corolla lavender-pink, without yellow lines or purple-red spots 

 within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4728, 4739. (Florida)— 4586, 4662, 4665, 

 4693. (Alabama)— 4609, 4629, 4632. 



9. Agalinis pulchella Pennell. 



Agalinis pulchella Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 428. 1913. "Type, 

 Ponce de Leon, Holmes Co., Florida, Sept. 17, 1912, F. W. Pennell 4658, 

 in Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Dry open sandy longleaf pineland, southern Georgia and northern 

 Florida, westward to Louisiana. 



Flowering in September, fruiting in October. Corolla rose-pink, 

 with two yellow lines and relatively large longitudinal purple-red 

 spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4731, 4776, 4779. (Florida)— 4587, 4650, 

 4658, 4663, 4692. (Alabama)— 4427, 4452, 4454, 4455, 4493, 4515, 

 4642. 



10. Agalinis filifolia (Nutt.) Raf. 



(?erard^ay^^^/o/^a Nutt., Gen. PI. N. Amer. 2: 48. 1818. "Hab. In West 

 Florida.' Dr. Baldwyn." No type in the herbarium of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, but the description is quite distinctive. 



Agalinis filifolia (Nutt.) Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 65. 1837. 



Rather dry sandy longleaf pineland, in the Coastal Plain from 

 southern Georgia southward to southern Florida. 



Flowering in September and early October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla rose-pink, with two yellow lines and diffused purple- 

 red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4741, 4752, 4785, 4821, 4828, 10174. (Florida) 

 —4671, 4673, 4694, 4800, 4803. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



11. Agalinis laxa Pennell. 



Agalinis laxa Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 431. 1913. "Type, 

 Brunswick, Glynn Co., Georgia, Oct. 10, 1912, F. W. Pennell 4824, in 

 Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Dry sandy longleaf pineland, or more especially on river-sandhills 

 and old dunes, near the coast. South Carolina to central Florida. 



Flowering in late September and October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and, especially along 

 these, small purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (South Carolina)-^880. (Georgia)— 4778, 4783, 4824. 

 (Florida)— 4801, 4805. 



12. Agalinis holmiana (Greene) PenneU. 



Gerardia holmiana Greene, Pittonia 4: 52. pi. 10. 1899. "Plentiful in open 

 pine and oak groves along Michigan Avenue south of the Soldiers' Home 

 grounds near Brookland, D. C, collected by Mr. Holm and the writer, 

 20 Oct., 1898." Probable type seen in the herbarium of the New York 

 Botanical Garden, and I have myself collected the plant at the type 

 station. 



Agalinis holmiana (Greene) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 429. 1913. 



Dry sandy pineland, in the Coastal Plain; near the coast south 

 to South Carolina, and apparently in the sand-hills near the Fall- 

 Line southwestward into Georgia. Ranges northward to Long 

 Island, New York. 



Flowering from late August to mid-October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla rose-pink, with two yellow lines, and, especially 

 along these, small purple -red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (North Carolina)— 4904, 4923, 4929. (South Carolina)— 

 4864. 



13. Agalinis stenophylla Pennell, sp. nov. 



Plant dull-green or purplish, tending to blacken in drying. Stem 

 6-7 dm. tall, slender, with many ascending branches, essentially 

 glabrous. Leaves ascending-spreading, filiform-setaceous, entire, 

 acuminate, those of the stem 2-3 cm. long, .1-.3 mm. wide; scabro- 

 roughened to glabrous above. Axillary fascicles scarcely or not 

 developed. Racemes scarcely elongate, often broken, usually but 

 one flower of each pair developed, 1-6 flowered. Pedicels ascend- 

 ing, glabrous, in flower 8-12 mm. long, in fruit 15-20 mm. long, 

 2-2.5 times the length of the bracts, some on all the branches appear- 

 ing "terminal." Caljoc-tube 2.5 mm. long, hemispheric-campanu- 

 late, f-| the length of the capsule, truncate, its lobes .1-.3 mm. 

 long, triangular -subulate, not callose. Corolla 17-20 mm. long; its 

 tube 11-17 mm. long, slightly upcurved, its lobes 6-7 mm. long, 

 rounded to retuse, all spreading; externally minutely pubescent. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



within pubescent below sinus and over entire wndtli of basal por- 

 tions of posterior lobes ; probably rose pink (not seen fresh) . Anther- 

 sacs 1.7-2 mm. long, lanceolate, acuminate at distal apex, lanate 

 with white hairs on the valvular surface. Style glabrous. Stigma 

 1.5-2 mm. long. Capsule 3-4 mm. long, globose -ovoid, dark-brown. 

 Seeds .5-. 6 mm. long; testa dark-brown to nearly black, with reticu- 

 lations heavy and relatively remote; intra-reticular lines not dis- 

 cernible. 



Type, Tampa, Florida, collected in flower and young fruit Oc- 

 tober, 1877, A. P. Garber 281 ; in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



Known only from the original collection. 



14. Agalinis setacea (Walt.) Raf. 



Anonymos setacea Walt., Fl. Car. 170. 1788. Supposedly from lower 

 South Carolina, but probably from much further west. Type in the 

 British Museum identified by Dr. A. B. Rendle as agreeing with my 

 number 4757 from Cobb, Sumter Co., Georgia. 



Gerardia -plukenetii Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 2: 114. 1822. "Grows 

 in wet spungy soils, very common between the Oakmulgee and Chata- 

 houchie Rivers." Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston 

 Museum. Statement of habitat probably due to confusion with Agalinis 

 'pinetorum Pennell. 



Agalinis setacea (Walt.) Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 64. 1837. 



Gerardia filifolia gatesii Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 518. 1846. "In Ala- 

 bama (Gates!)." Type in the Kew Herbarium, identified, frum a frag- 

 ment sent me, as this species. 



Dry open sandy pineland. In the Coastal Plain from western 

 Georgia and northern Florida to eastern Mississippi, usually in long- 

 leaf pineland; inland in pinewoods on mountain-slopes through 

 northern Georgia and northern Alabama. 



Flowering from mid-September to October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla rose-pink, with two j^ellow lines and many small 

 diffused purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4757, 5710. (Florida)— 4569, 4570, 4583, 

 4584, 4672. (Alabama)— 4426, 4457, 4461, 4517, 4523, 4524, 4561, 

 4623, 5690. (Mississippi)— 4382. 



15. Agalinis keyensis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Plant dull-green, tending to blacken in drying. Stem at least 

 7 dm. tall, slender, with many spreading-ascending branches, spar- 

 ingly scabrellous or glabrous. Leaves spreading, filiform, entire, 

 acuminate, those of the stem (lowest not seen) .8-1.2 cm. long, 

 .2-.4 mm. wide; scabrous above. Axillary fascicles none. Racemes 

 not elongate, much broken and but one flower of each pair devel- 

 oped, 1-4 flowered. Pedicels ascending, glabrous, in flower 3-4 

 mm. long, in fruit 4-6 mm. long, about equaling the bracts, some 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



on all the branches appearing "terminal." Calyx-tube 2.5-3 mm. 

 long, hemispheric, |-| the length of the capsule, truncate, its lobes 

 .4-.6 mm. long, triangular-subulate, not becoming callose. Corolla 

 18-20 mm. long; its tube 14-15 mm. long, slightly upcurved, its 

 lobes 4-5 mm. long, truncate to emarginate, all spreading; externally 

 minutely pubescent, within pubescent below sinus and over entire 

 width of basal portions of posterior lobes; probably pink (not seen 

 fresh). Anther-sacs 2.5 mm. long, lanceolate, cuspidate at distal 

 apex, lanate with white hairs on the valvular surface. Style glab- 

 rous. Capsule 3-3.5 mm. long, globose, bi'own. Seeds .7-.9 mm. 

 long; testa dark-brown to nearly black, with reticulations rather 

 fine; intrareticular lines not discernible. 



Type: woods. Pine Key, Florida, collected in flower and fruit 

 by Mr. Blodgett; in herb. Columbia University at the New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



Known only from the original station in the Florida Keys. Not 

 re-collected; Dr. Small and myself have hunted in vain for this on 

 Pine Key, but at the time of our joint visit the season had been 

 unusually dry. 



16. Agalinis oligophylla PenneU. 



Gtrardia aphylla grandiflora Benth., Comp. Bot. Mag. 1 : 174. 1836. "Jack- 

 sonville [Drummond]." Type, labeled "Jacksonville," [certainly an error 

 for Louisiana], seen in Kew Herbarium. 



Gerardia plukenetii microphylla A. Gray, Syn. Fl. N. Amer. II. 1 : 293. 1878. 

 "Louisiana, Drummond, Hale." Type, an isotype of Gerardia aphylla 

 grandiflora Benth., seen in Gray Herbarium. 



Agalinis oligophylla Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 432. 1913. New 

 name for Gerardia plukenetii microphylla A. Gray. 



Moist longleaf pineland, in the Coastal Plain from southern 

 Mississippi to southeastern Texas. 



Flowering from late September to late October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla rose pink, with two yellow lines and, mostly along 

 these, rather large purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 



17. Agalinis aphylla (Nutt.) Raf. 



Gerardia aphylla Nutt., Gen. PI. N. Amer. 2: 47. 1818. "Hab. From 

 North Carolina to Florida, where it was first detected by Dr. Baldwyn." 

 Type seen in herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Agalinis microphylla Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 65. 1837. "In Florida, 

 collected by Le Conte (Collins herb.)." Type not known to exist. 



Agalinis aphylla (Nutt.) Raf., 1. c. 65. 1837. 



Moist sandy longleaf pineland, near the coast, North Carolina 

 to northern Florida and Louisiana. 



Flowering from mid-September to early JSFovember, and soon 

 ripening fruit. Corolla pale -pink, with two yellow lines but with- 

 out purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4748, 4789, 4808, 4819. (Florida)— 4647, 

 4655, 4664, 4676, 4682, 4712, 4798, 4814. 



18. Agalinis decemloba (Greene) Pennell. 



Gerardia decemloba Greene, Pittonia 4: 51. pi. 9. 1899. "Plant not un- 

 common about Brookland, D. C, inhabiting grassy knolls and hillsides 

 bordering on pine woods." Type probably seen in Herb. New York 

 Botanical Garden, and I have collected the plant at the type station. 



Agalinis decemloba (Greene) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 434. 1913. 



Dry open soil, sandy or clay, southward on mountain sides, lo- 

 cally frequent in the Piedmont and southern Appalachians. Ranges 

 from southeastern Pennsylvania to northern Alabama, but with a 

 very broken distribution and wholly east of the mountains. 



Flowering from late August to mid-October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and fine purple-red spots 

 within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Alabama)— 5687. (Tennessee)— 5709. 



19. Agalinis tenella Pennell. 



Agalinis tenella Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 434. 1913. "Type 

 Thomasville, Th9mas Co., Georgia, Sept. 28, 1912, F. W. Pennell 4727 

 in Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Dry sandy pineland, in the Coastal Plain from South Carolina 

 to north-central Florida, west to Louisiana. 



Flowering from mid-September to mid-October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and purple-red spots 

 within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (South Carolina)— 4853, 4871. (Georgia)— 4727, 4744, 

 4756, 4764, 4768, 4774, 4777, 4782, 4786. 



20. Agalinis erecta (Walt.) Pennell. 



Anonymos erecta Walt., Fl. Car. 170. 1788. Presumably from lower 

 South Carolina; no type in the Walter herbarium in the British Museum 

 and only identified as possibly the plant here considered. 



Gerardia setacea parvifolia Benth., Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. "Jack- 

 sonville." Drummond. Type in Kew Herbarium verified by Dr. N. E. 

 Brown as agreeing with my number 4659 from Ponce de Leon, Florida. 



Agalinis obtusifolia Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 64. 1837. "West Tennessee, 

 Alabama and Florida." Type not known to exist. Description, and 

 certainly the name, belongs to the plant now considered, although the 

 Tennessee specimen could hardly belong here. 



Agalinis erecta (Walt.) Pennell; Small, Fl. Florida Keys 133. 1913. 



Moist to dry sandy pineland, mostly longleaf, usually common, 

 in the Coastal Plain, from. North Carolina to southernmost Florida, 

 and west to Louisiana. Occurs northward in southward Delaware. 



Flowering from early September to mid-October, and soon ripen- 

 ing fruit. Corolla pink, with the two yellow lines and purple-red 

 spots within throat anteriorly faint oi' absent. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



This and related species have been known as ''Gerardia skm- 

 neria7ia." 



Pennell (North Carolina) ^9 10, 4915, 4926, 4933. (South Caro- 

 lina)-^870, 4879. (Georgia)-4733. (Florida)— 4596, 4640, 4646, 

 4659, 4667, 4685, 4710, 4797, 4804, 4815. (Alabama)— 4428, 4453, 

 4503, 4526, 4548, 4562, 4614, 4634. (Mississippi)— 4363, 4399. 

 (Louisiana)— 4226, 4227, 4231. 



21. Agalinis gattingeri (Small) Small. 



Gerardia tenuifolia leptophylla Benth., Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. 

 "Jacksonville, Louisiana." Drummond. Type, doubtless from Louisi- 

 ana, seen in Kew Herbarium. 



Gerardia tenuifolia filiformis Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 518. 1846. "South- 

 ern States." Type labeled "Amer. bor. Rafinesque. Gerardia filiformis 

 Raf.," seen in Kew Herbarium. 



Gerardia gattingeri Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1078, 1338. 1903. "Type, 

 Curtiss N. A. PI. no. 1910* in Herb. C. U." Type, collected by A. Gat- 

 tinger on hills around Nashville, Tennessee, seen in Herb. Columbia 

 University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Agalinis gattingeri (Small) Small, in Britton & Brown, 111. Fl. N. Un. St. 

 andCan.ed. II. 3:213. 1913. 



Dry to moist, sandy or clayey soil, woodland, barrens or open 

 bluffs, in central Tennessee and northern Alabama. Ranges from 

 southwestern Ontario to Minnesota, south to Alabama and eastern 

 Texas. 



Flowering from late August to mid -October, and soon ripening 

 fruit. Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and several to many 

 rather large purple -red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Tennessee)^ — 5705. 



22. Agalinis tenuifolia (Yahl) Raf. 



Gerardia tenuifolia Vahl, Symb. Bot. 3: 7. 1794. "Habitat in America 

 septentrionali." Type in Herb. Universitetets Botaniske Museum, Co- 

 penhagen, Denmark, collected by Von Rohren, and said to be probably 

 from Philadelphia, is identified by Dr. C. H. Ostenfeld as agreeing with 

 my number 2681 from Pennsylvania. 



Agalinis tenuifolia (Vahl) Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 64. 1837. 



Loam or sandy soil, moist or dry, usually in open deciduous wood- 

 land, common throughout above the Fall-line, through the eastern 

 Appalachians, southward smaller-leaved, passing into var. foly- 

 phylla, westward, mainly near river-banks, passing into var. mac- 

 rophylla; descending into the Coastal Plain locally in heavier soils, 

 as limestone, and in river-bottoms, there passing into var. leucan- 

 thera. Ranges from Maine to Michigan, south to Georgia and 

 Louisiana. 



Flowering from August to October, and soon ripening fruit. Cor- 

 olla purplish -pink, with two yellow lines and small diffused purple- 

 red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4091. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



22a. Agalinis tenuifolia leucanthera (Raf.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Gerardia leucanthera Raf., Fl. Ludov. 50. 1817. Louisiana. C.C.Robin. 

 Type not .seen. 



Stem 4-10 dm. tall, wideh^ much branched. Pedicels .5-1.5 

 times the length of the bracts. Corolla 15-23 mm. long. Capsule 

 6-7 mm. long. Seeds apparently slightly longer and more evidently 

 reticulate. 



Usually in moist soil, loam or clay, more rarely in sand, wood- 

 land or meadow, especially near streams, in alluvial or limestone 

 soils, in the Coastal Plain from southern Georgia and northern 

 Florida to eastern Texas. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4759. (Florida)— 4601, 4670, 4699, 4721. 

 (Alabama)— 4522, 4597, 4606, 4619. 



22b. Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla (Benth.) Blake. 



Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth., Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. 

 "St. Louis, Jacksonville." Drummond. Fragment of type, from Kew 

 Herbarium, labeled "St. Louis," .seen. 



Gerardia besseyana Britton, Mem. Torr. Bot. Club 5: 295. 1894. New- 

 name for Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth., not Gerardia macro- 

 phylla (Nutt.) Benth. 



Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla (Benth.) Blake, Rhodora 20: 71. 1918. 



In situations similar to that of the species, but more frequent 

 along river-banks, from northern Alabama and Mississippi north- 

 ward. Ranges from southern Ontario and Minnesota south to 

 Alabama and Oklahoma. 



Pennell (Alabama) — 5719. (Mississippi) — 5685. (Tennessee) — 

 5714. 



22c. Agalinis tenuifolia polyphylla (Small) Pemiell, comb. nov. 



Gerardia polyphylla Small, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 25: 618. 1898. "The 

 original specimens were collected by the writer on Little Stone Moun- 

 tain, De Kalb County, Georgia, in September, 1895." Tj'pe seen in 

 Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Dry light soil over granite, locally in the granite region of central 

 Georgia. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4065, 5696, 5699. 



23. Agalinis divaricata (Chapm.) Pennell. 



Gerardia divaricata Chapm., Fl. S. Un. St. 299. Mar., 1860. "Low sandy 



pine barrens, West Florida." No type indicated, but numerous specimens 



collected and distributed by the describer seen. 

 Gerardia mettaueri Wood, Class-Book 5.30. Dec, 1860. "Wet sandy 



places. Middle Fla. (Dr. Mettauer.)" Type seen in herbarium of 



Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 

 Gerardia metlaueri clausa Wood, 1. c. 530. 1860. "With the others," that 



is, with the species and G. mettaueri nuda. No specimen so labeled seen. 

 Agalinis divaricata (Chapm.) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 437. 1913. 



Dry sandy longleaf pineland, western Florida and southeastern 

 Alabama, mostly abundant. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



Flowering in September and October, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla rose-pink, with no yellow lines but with faint purple-red 

 spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Florida)^572, 4593, 4644, 4657, 4668, 4679, 4684, 4687, 

 4716. (Alabama)— 4622, 4624, 4627, 4633. 



24. Agalinis filicaulis (Benth.) Pennell. 



Gcrardia aphylla filicaulis Benth., Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. "Jack- 

 sonville." Drummond. Type in Kew Herbarinm, verified by Dr. N. E. 

 Brown, as agreeing with my number 4660 from Florida. 



Geranlia vietlaueri nuda Wood, Class-Book 530. 1860. "Middle Fl. 

 (Dr. Mettauer, 1855.)" No type seen. 



Agalinis filicaulis (Benth.) Pennell, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 438. 1913. 



Moist grassy sandy longleaf pineland, in the Coastal Plain from 

 southern Georgia and northern Florida to eastern Louisiana. 



Flowering from mid September to early November, and soon 

 ripening fruit. Corolla lavender pink, without yellow lines or pur- 

 ple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 



Pennell (Georgia)— 4749, 4788. (Florida)— 4594, 4643, 4660, 

 4677, 4689, 4709, 4796. (Alabama)— 4608, 4626. 



33. OTOPHYLLA Bentham. 

 Otophijlla Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 512. 1846. 

 Type species, Gerardia auriculata Michx. 



1. Otophylla auriculata (Michx.) Small. 



Gerardia auriculata Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 2: 20. 1803. "In pratis re- 



gionis Illinoensis [A. Michaux]." Description sufficiently distinctive. 

 Otophylla michauxii Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 512. 1846. 

 Otophylla auriculata (Michx.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1075, 1338. 1903. 



Moist to dry prairies, old fields and waysides, known only from 

 Jackson, Madison Co., western Tennessee, where probably intro- 

 duced. Native of the prairies of the central Mississippi Valley 

 from Michigan to Minnesota and Arkansas. 



Flowering from late August to mid-September, fruiting in Sep- 

 tember and October. 



34. BUCHNERA Linne. 

 Buchnera L., Sp. PI. 630. 1753. 

 Type species, B. americana L. 



Leaves 3-9 cm. long, lanceolate to ovate-lanceolate, relatively 

 coarsely dentate. Corolla-lobes 6-9 mm. long, the tube 2-2J 

 times the length of the calyx. Capsule 8-9 mm. long, oblong. 

 Stem hirsute-pubescent. 1. B. americana. 



Leaves 2-7 cm. long, lanceolate-elliptic to linear, entire or the lower 

 slightly dentate. Corolla-tube mostly 1-^ times the length 



20 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



of the calyx. Capsule ovate, 5-6.5 mm. long. Seeds. Stem less 



pubescent or even glabrate. 



Leaves prevailingly lanceolate-elliptic, mostly obtuse, only the 



uppermost at times linear and then reduced. Corolla-lobes 



usually 4-6 mm. long. 2a. B. elongata obtusa. 



Leaves linear or nearly so, mostly acute to acuminate, only the 



lowermost if any lanceolate-elliptic. Corolla-lobes usually 



6-8 mm, long. 2. B. elongata. 



1. Buchnera americana L. 



Buchnera americana L., 1. c. 630. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada." 

 Based upon Gron., Fl. Virg. 74. 1743, typified by Clayton 142 from Vir- 

 ginia. Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Sandy or sterile loam soil, throughout the area except in the 

 Appalachians, probably more frequent in the Coastal Plain where 

 it may intergrade with B. elongata obtusa. 



Flowering from June to September, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla purplish-blue throughout. 



Pennell (Alabama)— 4478, 4518, 4550, 4554. 



2. Buchnera elongata Sw. 



Buchnera elongata Sw., Prod. Veg. Ind. Occ. 92. 1788. "India occidentalis, 

 Jamaica"; Fl. Ind. Occ. 1061. 1800, "Habitat in arenosis depressis Indiae 

 occidentalis. Versus jugum montium paroeciae Clarendon Jamaicae." 



Sandy soil, dunes and limestone pineland of southern Florida, 

 passing into var. obtusa. Ranges through the West Indies, and in 

 northern South America. 



Pennell (Florida)— 9541, 9543, 9546, 9547, 9552. 



2a. Buchnera elongata obtusa Pennell, var. nov. 



Buchnera angvstifolia Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 32. 1837. "In Alabama." 

 Described as with linear leaves, but these remote. Surely an attenuate 

 state of our variety. 

 (?) Buchnera levicaulis Raf., 1. c. 39. 1837. "Florida." Description of 

 stem as angular and quite smooth suggests that this may belong to some 

 other genus. However, while our plant is characteristically pubescent, 

 it occasionally occurs nearly glabrous. 



Leaves prevailingly lanceolate-elliptic, mostly obtuse, only the 

 uppermost linear and then not elongate. Corolla usually smaller 

 than in the species, its lobes usually 4-6 mm. long. Intergrades 

 with the species in southern Florida and the Bahamas, 



Type, open sandy pineland, 1-2 miles north of Abita Springs, St. 

 Tammany Parish, Louisiana, collected in flower and fruit Aug- 

 ust 14, 1912, F. W. Pennell 4190, in herbarium New York Botanical 

 Garden; isotype in herbarium University of Pennsylvania. 



Sandy pineland, in the Coastal Plain from North Carolina to 

 southern Florida, westward to southeastern Texas. 



Flowering from March to October, and soon ripening fruit; south- 

 ward throughout the year. Corolla purplish-blue throughout; occur- 

 ring also frequently in an albino form. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Pennell (North Carolina)— 4911. (South Carohna)— 4874, 4882. 

 (Georgia)-^730, 4787, 4812. (Florida)— 4704, 4722, 9535, 9645, 

 9674. (Alabama)— 4473. (Louisiana)— 4190, 4296. 



35. SCHWALBEA Linne. 

 Schwalbea L., Sp. PI. 606. 1753. 



Type species, S. americana L., of Virginia. 



1. Schwalbea australis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem 4-8 dm. tall, finely pubescent with short ascending or up- 

 curved hairs. Leaves elliptic-oval, 3-^ cm. long, 12-18 mm. wide, 

 acutish, obscurely reticulate, minutely strigose. Pedicels becoming 

 4-5 mm. long in fruit. Calyx 10-ridged, its lobes all acute, the 

 posterior linear, 7-10 mm. long, postero-lateral lobes 19-20 mm. long, 

 their free portion 6-7 mm. long, the anterior lobes 20-22 mm. long, 

 united to within 1-2 mm. of their apices. Corolla about 30 mm. 

 long, slender, the lips 10-11 mm. long, the posterior narrowly arched, 

 strongly pubescent externally, the anterior densely lanose within 

 over the bases of the three short lobes. Capsule at least 10 mm. 

 long, not seen mature. 



Type, damp pine barrens near Seville, Volusia Co., Florida, col- 

 lected in flower May 10, 1900, A. H. Curtiss 6742; in herbarium of 

 the New York Botanical Garden. 



Distinguished from the northern S. americana by the following 

 characters : 



Pubescence of stem, pedicels and calyx consisting of recurved hairs. 

 Leaves elliptic-lanceolate, rarely over 10 mm. wide, usually 

 evidently veined. Anterior calyx-lobes obtuse. 



S. americana. 

 Pubescence of stem, pedicels and calyx consisting of upcurved, 

 usually shorter hairs. Leaves elliptic-oval, usually about 15 

 mm. wide, usually more obscurely veined. Anterior calyx- 

 lobes acute or acutish. S. australis. 

 Sandy soil, rather moist, oak-land and pine-land, in the Coastal 

 Plain from South Carolina to central Florida and Louisiana; inland 

 apparently occasional, seen only from ''sandy humid places in the 

 Cumberland Mountains between Montgomery and Jamestown," 

 Tennessee, collected by Rugel in 1841. 



Flowering from April to June. Not seen growing. 



36. CASTILLEJA Mutis. 

 Castilleja Mutis; L. f. Suppl. 293. 1781. 



Type species, C. fissifolia L. f., of Colombia. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



1. Castilleja coccinea (L.) Spreng. 



Bartsia coccinea L., Sp. PI. 602. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Nove- 

 boraco . . . Hort. Cliff. 235." From L., Hort. Cliff. 325. 1737, 

 "Crescit in Virginia, unde delatam communicavit DD. Gronovius". 

 From Gron., Fl. Virg. 69. 1743: "Clayton n. 293." Certainly the plant 

 here considered. 



Castilleja coccinea (L.) Spreng., Syst. Veg. 2: 775. 1825. 



Meadows or moist grassy slopes, loam or sandy loam, in the 

 upland from North Carolina to Alabama." Ranges from Maine 

 to Manitoba, south to Georgia and Kansas. 



Flowering from April to early June, and soon ripening fruit. 

 Corolla yellowish-green throughout. 



37. PEDICULARIS Linne. 

 Pedicularis L., Sp. PI. 607. 1753. 

 Type species, P. palustris L., of Europe. 



Stem 6-8 dm. tall, glabrous. Leaves shallowly lobed, the sinuses 

 narrow, the lobes with minute regular crenations. Bracts 

 auriculate near base. Rachis of inflorescence glabrous. Fused 

 sepals of each side terminating in a slightly enlarged crenate 

 foliar tip, glabrous or with a very few long hairs near base. 

 Corolla with truncate apex of posterior lobes without tooth-like 

 processes. Capsule brown, scarcely exceeding the calyx, slen- 

 derly beaked. Flowering in late summer 1. P. lanceolata. 



Stem 1-3 dm. tall, hirsute, especially above. Leaves deeply lobed, 

 the sinuses broad, the lobes with more prominent irregular 

 crenations. Bracts entire near base. Rachis of inflorescence 

 lanate. Fused sepals of each side broadly acute, entire, pubes- 

 cent along the veins. Corolla with apex of posterior lobes each 

 w^ith a tooth -like process. Capsule straw-colored, twice as 

 long as the calyx, scarcely beaked. Flowering in spring. 



2. P. canadensis. 



1. Pedicularis lanceolata Michx. 



Pedicularis lanceolata Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 2: 18. 1803. "Hab. in 

 regione Illinoensi" (A. Michaux). Type not verified, but description 

 distinctive. 



Swales and wet meadows, mountains of North Carolina. Ranges 

 from Massachusetts to Manitoba, south to North Carolina and 

 Nebraska. 



Flowering from late July to September. Corolla yellow through- 

 out. 



" Seen only south to Berkeley Co., lower South Carolina, but this very easily 

 distinguished plant is recorded from upper Georgia by Elliott, Sketch Bot. S. C. 

 and Ga. 2: 132. 1822; and from Etowah Co., Alabama, by Mohr, Contrib. Nat. 

 Herb. 6: 728. 1901. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



2. Fedicularis canadensis L. 



Pedicidaris canadensis L., Mant. 86. 1767. "Habitat in America septen- 

 trionali. Kalni." 



Woodland or knolls in meadows, throughout above the Fall- 

 line, probably more common northward; in the Coastal Plain 

 descending locally to northern Florida. Ranges from Nova Scotia 

 to Manitoba, south to Florida and Texas. 



Pennell (Alabama)— 9722. (Tennessee)— 9789. 



38. MELAMPYRUM Linne. 

 Melampyrum L., Sp. PI. 605. 1753. 

 Type species, M. cristatum L.,.of Europe. 



Main stem-leaves linear or lanceolate-linear. Bracts conspicuously 

 fimbriate near base, with teeth frequently as long as the width 

 of the blade. Capsules mostly 6-7 mm. long, curved and usu- 

 ally attenuate-beaked. Seeds 2-2.5 mm, long, brown to black- 

 ish 1. M. lineare. 



Main stem-leaves linear-lanceolate to nearly ovate. Bracts slightly 

 or not fimbriate near base, the teeth shorter than the width of 

 the blades. Capsules frequently larger, reaching 8-9 mm. long, 

 slightly or not curved, and less or not attenuate-beaked. Seeds 

 often larger, reaching 3 mm. long, usually black. 



la. M. lineare lati folium. 



1. Melampyrum lineare Desr. 



Melampyrum lineare Desr., Lam., Encyc. 4: 22. 1796. "Rapportee de 

 la Caroline par M. Fraser ... (v. s.)." Description made from 

 a very young plant, but certainly of the form here considered. Char- 

 acterization of the calyx as 5-toothed certainly erroneous. 



Open woodland, thin acid soil, upland and probably midland 

 districts of North Carolina. In the Appalachians mainly replaced 

 by var. lalifolium. Ranges northward to Long Island, and through 

 its varieties much further northward and across the continent. 



Flowering and fruiting through the summer. Corolla white, 



more or less pinkish externally, the palate yellow. 



la. Melampyrum lineare latifolium (Miihl.) Beauverd. 



Melampyrum americanum Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 2: 16. 1803. "Hab. a 



sinu Hudsonis ad montosam Carolinam." (A. Michaux.) Description 



evidently of the prevalent inland broader-leaved plant. 

 Melampyrum latifolium Muhl. (Cat. 57. nomen nudum); Eaton, Bot. 316. 



1818. From Muhlenberg's Catalog, the type station is in Delaware. 



Type not seen, but evidently is the prevalent inland plant. 

 Melampyrum lineare latifolium (Muhl.) Beauverd, Mem. Soc. Phys. Geneve 



38: 474. 1916. 



Moist open woodland, in the Appalachians south to northern 

 Georgia. The prevalent inland plant, southward attaining its great- 

 est distinctness from the species. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



NOTES ON NEW JERSEY, PENNSYLVANIA, AND VIRGINIA FISHES 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER 



The notes and records given below are chiefly gathered from col- 

 lections made for the Museum of the Academy during 1919. A few 

 others, made previously and used in this connection, are included. 

 An interesting addition to the fauna of New Jersey is recorded, be- 

 sides notices of rare and little-known species. The records are con- 

 densed and exhibit only briefly the more important items in the 

 great mass of material examined. Acknowledgment for assistance 

 in procuring material is herewith given but as the names of most of 

 the contributors have appeared elsewhere the names are not repeated. 



New Jersey. 



Material was collected and studied in the field with Dr. R. O. Van 

 Deusen during the past season, in Salem County, as follows : basin 

 of Alloway Creek in Deep Run with its enlarged artificial ponds 

 "Lake Tranquility" and "House's Pond" (August 29); Alloway 

 Creek tidal, "Diamond Pond, "and mill-race at Alloway (August 30) ; 

 "Maskell's Pond," in Stow Creek basin (August 31). In Cumber- 

 land County (on September 2) : the fresh-waters of the mill-pond at 

 Newport and the brackish and salt estuary of Nantuxent Creek were 

 explored to Delaware Bay. 



A few old specimens of New Jersey fishes in the University of 

 Pennsylvania, from Avalon, Beach Haven, Ludlam Bay and Sea 

 Isle City, were examined through the kindness of Dr. J. Percy Moore. 



Notes from the excursions of the Philadelphia Aquarium Society 

 to May's Landing, in May, 1919, were sent by Mr. W. T. Innes; 

 others were received from Dr. R. J. Phillips, taken at Corson's Inlet 

 during his summer residence there; and finally Dr. R. 0. Van Deusen 

 made a full list of the fishes captured in the nets at Atlantic City 

 during the entire season until November. 



Petromyzon marinus Linne. Few in the spring at Atlantic City. 



EuLAMiA milberti (Miiller and Henle). Large one at Atlantic 

 City during June. Other abundant sharks were Carcharias taurus, 

 Mustelus mustelus, and Squalus acanthi as, the last only in the fall, 

 when common. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Sphyrna zygaena (Linne) . Small ones frequent at Atlantic City. 

 Two, each two feet long, angled at Corson's Inlet during August. 



Raja erinacea Mitchill. Corson's Inlet, Not at Atlantic City, 

 where R. ocellata, R. eglanteria, two adult R. laevis and Dasyaiis say 

 were taken. 



Rhinoptera bonasus (Mitchill). Large one at Atlantic City in 

 August. One of about 60 pounds taken on the oyster-beds off the 

 mouth of Nantuxent Creek on August 30. 



Acipenser sturio Linne. Five at Atlantic City earl}^ in June. 



Megalops atlanticus Valenciennes. Adult in June at Atlantic 

 City. During the spring Pomolohus mediocris and P. pseudoharengus 

 were common, and P. aestivalis irregular through the summer. School 

 of P. mediocris at Corson's Inlet in mid-September. 



Etrumeus sadina (Mitchill). Nineteen examples from Avalon 

 on August 7, 1892, in the U. of Pa. 



PoMOLOBus pseudoharengus (Wilson). Deep Run and Alloway 

 Creek; common in spring. At Atlantic City few Alosa sapidissima 

 in the spring, and Brevoortia tyrannus abundant all summer. 



DoROSOMA cepedianum (LeSucur). Four during September at 

 Atlantic City. Taken at Alloway in October. 



Anchovia brownii (Gmelin). Eight taken August 7, 1892, at 

 Avalon. In the U. of Pa. 



Salmo fario Linne. This and the next found in Deep Run above 

 House's Pond, where introduced. 



Salvelinus fontinalis (Mitchill). 



Ameiurus catus (Linne). Alloway Creek: run five pounds in 

 weight. 



Ameiurus natalis (LeSueur). Deep Run, Lake Tranquility, 

 Alloway Creek, and Maskell's Pond. 



Ameiurus nebulosus (LeSueur). Same as above though more 

 abundant. 



Hybognathus nuchalis REGIUS (Girard). Alloway Creek, 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). May's Landing, Deep Run, 

 Lake Tranquility, Alloway Creek, Diamond Pond, Maskell's Pond. 



NoTROPis hudsonius AMARUS (Girard). Alloway Creek. 



Cyprinus carpio Linne. Deep Run and Alloway Creek. 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus (Mitchill). May's Landing, Deep 

 Run, House's Pond, Alloway Creek, 



Anguilla rostrata (LeSueur). May 20, 1900 at Ludlam Baj^; 

 several at Atlantic City during 1919; also Deep Run and House's 

 Pond. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Esox AMERiCANUS (Gmelin). May's Landing and Deep Run at 

 Lake Tranquility. 



Esox TRiDECEMLiNEATUs Mitchill. Deep Run, Alloway Creek 

 and Maskell's Pond. 



Umbra pygmaea (DeKay). Deep Run at House's Pond, 



FuNDULus MAJALis (Walbaum). Atlantic City. 



FuNDULUs HETERocLiTus MACROLEPiDOTus (Walbaum). Beach 

 Haven and Nantuxent Creek. 



FuNDULUS DiAPHANUS (Le Sueur) . Deep Run and Alloway Creek. 



FuNDULUS LUCiAE (Baird). Nantuxent Creek delta in salt ponds 

 on the meadows. 



Cyprinodon variegatus Lacepede. Ludlam Bay and Atlantic 

 City. 



Syngnathus fuscus Storer. Beach Haven and Ludlam Bay. 



Hippocampus hudsonius DeKay. Two in September, 1919, at 

 Atlantic City. 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill). Ludlam Bay. 



Strongylura MARINA (Walbaum). Manasquan. Small ones 

 abundant at Corson's Inlet. 



Strongylura acus (Lacepede) . Five adults in August at Atlantic 

 City. 



Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). Beach Haven, Nantux- 

 ent Creek, Atlantic City. 



Mugil curema Valenciennes. Small ones in great schools, at 

 Corson's Inlet. Atlantic City. 



Scomber scombrus Linne. Fifty barrels reported at Ocean City, 

 June 16, 1919. 



Scomber colias Gmelin. Ludlam Bay. A few in the spring at 

 Atlantic City. 



Sarda sarda (Bloch). An interesting young example from Ava- 

 lon, taken August 8, 1892. In the U. of Pa. It has 14 dark vertical 

 bars on the back. An example of 35 pounds weight taken at Atlantic 

 City during the past summer. 



Scomberomorus maculatus (Mitchill). Few in spring at At- 

 lantic City. 



Trichiurus lepturus Linne. Two caught in June and one in 

 September, at Atlantic City. 



Seriola zonata (Mitchill). Atlantic City, abundant, mostly 

 small. 



Decapterus punctatus ( Agassiz). One 85 mm. long from Ava- 

 lon, August 7, 1892, in the U. of Pa. It shows: Head 3|; depth 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 295 



4f ; D. VIII— I, 30; A. II, 23—1; scutes 46+38; snout 3^ in head; 

 eye 3f; maxillary 2f ; interorbital 3|; lanceolate rakers 14+30? 



Caranx hippos (Linne). Atlantic City. Abundant in August 

 and September, mostly small and but few large ones. Adult taken 

 June 16. 



Caranx crysos (Mitchill). Atlantic City. Occasional; at least 

 six captured. 



Selene vomer (Linne). Ludlam Bay, on July 26, 1892; Atlan- 

 tic City; three caught in September, 1919. 



Trachinotus carolinus (Linne). Atlantic City. Young very 

 abundant, and 15 to 20 adults during the season, one on June 16. 



PoMATOMUS SALTATRix (Linne). Atlantic City and Corson's Inlet; 

 small ones very abundant. 



PoRONOTUs TRiACANTHUS (Pcck). Sea Isle City and Atlantic 

 City. 



Aphredoderus sayanus (Gilliams). May's Landing, Deep Run, 

 House's Pond, and Maskell's Pond. 



PoMOXis sparoides (Lacep^de). Deep Run, Alloway Creek, and 

 Alloway. 



Acantharchus pomotis (Baird). Diamond Pond at Alloway; 

 also New Lisbon in Burlington County, and Franklinville in Glou- 

 cester County, and said to be abundant at the last locality. Eight 

 taken in September, 1917 at Willow Grove, in Gloucester County. 



Ambloplites rupestris (Rafinesque). Daretown, Salem County 

 (introduced). 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook), May's Landing, Deep 

 Run, House's Pond, Maskell's Pond. 



Mesogonistius chaetodon (Baird). May's Landing. 



Pomotis gibbosus (Linne). May's Landing, Deep Run, Alloway 

 Creek, Alloway, Maskell's Pond. 



MiCROPTERUs SALMOiDES (Lacepede). Deep Run and Alloway 

 Creek. 



Perca flavescens (Mitchill). Deep Run, Lake TranquiUty, 

 Alloway Creek, Alloway, Maskell's Pond. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). Alloway Creek. 



Boleichthys fusiformis (Girard). May's Landing. 



Roccus lineatus (Bloch). Atlantic City. Fairly common. 

 Ten to 15 pounds, one of 35 pounds. 



MoRONE AMERICANA (Gmeliu). Deep Run, Alloway Creek and 

 Atlantic City. Centropristis striatus abundant at last locality. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linne). Atlantic City, one in 

 September, also same for Lagodon rhomhoides. Stenotomus chrysops 

 also taken, besides young, at Corson's Inlet. 



Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). Atlantic City and Corson's 

 Inlet. At latter, largest eight pounds, in September, and examples 

 of five pounds not scarce. 



Cynoscion nebulosus (Cuvier) . Atlantic City, one, and Corson's 

 Inlet, two of three pounds and one of little less than two pounds. 

 All captured in September. 



Bairdiella chrysura (Lacepede). Nantuxent Creek and At- 

 lantic City. 



SciAENOPS OCELLATUS (Linne). Atlantic City and Corson's Inlet. 

 Examples 20 to 35 pounds. 



MicROPOGON UNDULATUS (Linne). Three at Ocean City on June 

 16, 1919. Atlantic City, June 15, common. Adults taken inside 

 at Corson's Inlet. 



Leiostomus xanthurus Lacepede. Atlantic City and Corson's 

 Inlet. Common. Many large and wounded taken at latter place. 



Menticirrhus americanus (Linne). Corson's Inlet. Spawners 

 arrive little later than in next species. 



Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). Atlantic City and Cor- 

 son's Inlet, where spawners arrive in mid-May. Two examples 

 caught in middle of October. 



Pogonias cromis (Linne). Common at Atlantic City, though 

 fewer than red drum. Also Corson's Inlet and Ocean City, 



Upeneus phillipsi Fowler. One example in the U. of Pa. 80 mm. 

 long, from Ludlam Bay, July 26, 1892. It shows: Head 3j; depth 

 3^; D. VIII— I, 8; A. ?, 6; scales in 1. 1. 34 to caudal base and 4 

 more on latter; 3 scales above 1. 1., 6 below; snout 2^ in head; eye 

 3f; maxillary 3; interorbital 3|; rakers 6+15, lanceolate. Single 

 row of teeth in upper jaw, and lower teeth biserial. Spinous dorsal 

 shows distinctly two dark longitudinal bands and soft dorsal three. 

 Each caudal lobe with four transverse dark bars. At present body 

 brown on back; belly and under surface brassy. According to a 

 note on the original label ''Caudal and dorsals with dark bands, 

 other fins pale. The anal spines torn loose." 



Tautogolabrus adspersus (Walbaum). Atlantic City and Cor- 

 son's Inlet. Also Tautoga onitis. 



Chaetodipterus faber (Broussonet) . Atlantic City, four on 

 June 15, and three in September. 



Balistes carolinensis Gmelin. One at Atlantic City during 

 the summer. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Stephanolepis hispidus (Linne). This and the next, same local- 

 ity as last, though only a few. 



Alutera schoepfii (Walbaum). 



Lagocephalus laevigatus (Linne). One at Fortesque by H. E. 

 Dimmick 193^^ inches long. Another adult angled in Great Bay, 

 September 28, 1919. It was feeding largely on small amphipods, 

 living in the tubes of various marine worms. Several adults re- 

 ported from Maurice River Cove during the summer. Spheroides 

 maculatus was abundant at Atlantic City. 



Chilomycterus atinga (Linne). A fine adult example of this 

 tropical fish was sent to the U. of Pa. shortly after its capture 

 August 1, 1900, at Ocean City, by H. Adams. As the species was 

 previously unknown north of Florida, its occurrence in New Jersey 

 is of considerable interest. The original label says, "Caught this 

 afternoon a fish which seems to be very rare here, as no one knows 

 the name of it." 



Head 2f; depth 3; D. 12; A. 11; snout 2j in head; eye of; 

 mouth width 2f ; interorbital If. Spines short points covered with 

 skin, wide set. Forehead broad, flat, and interorbital, slightly con- 

 cave. Three low supraorbital spines, one above opercle and one 

 over gill-opening. Head broad as long, flattened below. Body 

 greatly depressed. Caudal peduncle small, its least depth equals 

 eye. Eye ellipsoid, slightly advanced. Mouth broad, with thick 

 papillose fleshy lips, gape half way to eye. Nostrils before middle of 

 front eye edge. Gill-opening little longer than eye. Skin spongy, 

 thick. Dorsal slightly before anal, and like all fins, rounded. Fully 

 expanded pectoral twice broad as deep. Caudal slightly longer than 

 pectoral. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish, with lilac tints on back and upper 

 surface, marked every^v^here with jet-black round spots, variable in 

 size, but none larger than pupil. On head above, spots more crowded. 

 Dorsal, caudal and pectoral dull brownish, marked with very small 

 black spots, few also on anal. All spots on fins not extending very 

 near edges. Brown tint of back extends into pale lower color below 

 eye, before gill-opening, behind pectoral base and below dorsal origin. 

 Under surface of body, including mandible, creamj^-white, with an 

 occasional scattered black spot. Length 335 mm. 



Chilomycterus schoepfi (Walbaum). Atlantic City. 



MoLA MOLA (Linne). One four feet long ashore near Barnegat 

 Light on July 26, reported by E. P. McCormick. Another, about 

 same size, at Ocean City, early in September, reported by Richard 

 Erskine. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Myoxocephalus aeneus (Mitchill). Four at Atlantic City. 



Cyclopterus lumpus Linne. Adult during August at Atlantic 

 City. 



Prionotus evolans strigatus (Cuvier). Ludlam Bay, very 

 abundant at Ocean City in early June, common at Atlantic City and 

 occasional at Corson's Inlet. P. carolinus common at Atlantic City. 



Leptecheneis naucrates (Linne). Atlantic City. 



Paralichthys dentatus (Linne). Three, each ten pounds 

 weight, at Corson's Inlet. Abundant at Ocean City with Lophop- 

 setta maculata; also at Sea Isle City and Atlantic City. At latter 

 place both species, besides Pseudopleuronedes americanus and 

 A chirus fasciatus . 



AsTROscopus guttatus Abbott. One July 23, at Sea Isle City and 

 one at Ocean City, August 17. 



PoLLACHius viRENs (Linne). One or two at Atlantic City, in 

 May, besides Microgadus tonicod, Gadus callarias, Phycis chuss, Mer- 

 luccius hilinearis, Opsanus tau and Lophius piscatorius, the last very 

 abundant. 



PENNSYLVANIA. 



During the past spring the following streams in the Delaware 

 River basin of Berks County were visited : headwaters of the North- 

 kill Creek near Straussberg, tributary to the west, and headwaters of 

 the Tulpehocken Creek south of Strausstown. Notes on Paupack 

 Lake in Pike County were sent by Mr. L. Tromner. 



Trips were also made into the Susquehanna River basin: in the 

 Little Swatara of Berks County near Schubert (April 28); during 

 early September in Cumberland County in Yellow Breeches Creek 

 at Three Springs and Walnut Bottom, Conodoguinet Creek at Ship- 

 pensburg, tributary near Carlisle Springs, one at Hogestown and an- 

 other below; in Franklin County in the Tuscarora headwaters at 

 Concord; in Perry County in Fishing Creek about Keystone. 



Finally, the Potomac River basin of Franklin County was examined 

 at Chambersburg in the Conococheague Creek and small tributary 

 to the west of the town, Back Creek or a tributary between Chambers- 

 burg and Fort Loudon and its affluent near St. Thomas, and West 

 Branch of the Conococheague at Fort Loudon and near Metal. 

 These were all visited in early September. 



Salmo fario Linne. Hogestown. 



Salvelinus fontinalis (Mitchill). Paupack Lake and Fort 

 Loudon. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Ameiurus nebulosus (LeSueur). Same as last. 



ScHiLBEODEs iNsiGNis (Ricliardsoii). Paupack Lake outlet. 



PiMEPHALEs notatus (Rafiiiesque). Conococheague tributary 

 west of Chambersburg, Back Creek and St. Thomas. 



Semotilus bullaris (Rafinesque). Paupack Lake. 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). Straussberg, Paupack 

 Lake, Walnut Bottom, Chambersburg, Back Creek, St. Thomas, Me- 

 tal, Concord. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Paupack Lake. 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). Schubert. 



NoTROPis CORNUTUS (Mitchill). Northkill headwaters and Schu- 

 bert; Chambersburg and Concord. 



Notropis atherinoides Rafinesque. Back Creek and Fort Lou- 

 don. 



Ericymba buccata Cope. Conococheague tributary west of 

 Chambersburg and Back Creek. 



Rhinichthys cataractae (Valenciennes). Three Springs. 



Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). Straussberg, Northkill head- 

 waters, Schubert, Tulpehocken headwaters, Paupack Lake outlet. 

 Three Springs, Walnut Bottom, Shippensburg, Chambersburg and 

 brook to west. Back Creek, St. Thomas, Fort Loudon, Metal, Con- 

 cord, Carlisle Springs, Hogestown. 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Schubert, Chambers- 

 burg, Fort Loudon, Metal, Concord. 



ExoGLossuM maxillingua (LeSucur). Schubert, Chambers- 

 burg, Concord and Keystone. 



Catostomus commersonnii (Lacepede). Schubert, Shippensburg, 

 Back Creek, St. Thomas, Fort Loudon, Concord. 



Catostomus nigricans LeSueur. Schubert, Back Creek, Fort 

 Loudon, Keystone. 



Anguilla rostrata (LeSueur). Paupack Lake. Fort Loudon. 



Esox AMERiCANUS (Gmelin). Northkill Creek headwaters and 

 Three Springs. 



Esox TRiDECEMLiNEATUs Mitchill. Paupack Lake. 



Fundulus diaphanus (LeSueur). Northkill Creek headwaters. 



Ambloplites rupestris (Rafinesque). Chambersburg. 



Lepomis auritus (Linne). Paupack Lake, Three Springs, Cham- 

 bersburg, Fort Loudon, Metal, Concord. 



Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede. Paupack Lake. 



MiCROPTERUs salmoides (Lacepede). Chambersburg. 



Perca flavescens (Mitchill). Paupack Lake. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



BoLEOSOMA NIGRUM OLMSTEDi (Storer). Noi'thkill Creek head- 

 waters, Schubert, Tulpehocken headwaters, Three Springs, Concord, 

 Carlisle Springs. 



PoEciLiCHTHYS FLABELLARis (Rafinesque). Chambersburg and 

 brook to west. Back Creek, St. Thomas and Fort Loudon. 



CoTTUS GRACILIS Heckel. Chambersburg and tributary below 

 Hogestown. 



VIRGINIA. 



A small collection in the University of Pennsylvania from the oyster- 

 beds near Cape Charles, was obtained by Dr. J. Percy Moore, July 

 19, 1891. It contains: Dasyatis say, Fundulus majalis, F. hetero- 

 clitus macrolepidotus, Syngnathus fuscus, Strongylura marina, Meni- 

 dia heryllina, M. menidia notata, S comber oviorus maculatus, Seriola 

 zonata, Poronotus triacanthus, Centropristis striatus, Orthopristis chrys- 

 opterus, Stenotomus chrysops, Leiostomus xanthurus, Micropogon 

 undulatus, Gobiosoma hose, Paralichthys dentatus, Hypsoblennius hentz 

 and Gohiesox strumosus. I received Rhinichthys atronasus from 

 Deerfield, June 23, 1919. 



The following reports were ordered to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary is again indebted to Dr. J. Percy Moore 

 for acting in that office, and to Dr. Philip P. Calvert, who performed 

 the duties of Recorder of the Council, at the meetings during the 

 past year. The statistics of this report have been again prepared by 

 the Assistant liibrarian, William J. Fox. 



Meetings have been held December 17, 1918; January 21, Febru- 

 ary 18, March 18, April 15, and November 18, 1919. Communica- 

 tions were made by Messrs. Henry A. Pilsbry, Edgar Fahs Smith, 

 J. W. Harshberger, and Witmer Stone. 



Papers for publication have been presented by David Starr Jordan, 

 John W. Harshberger and Vincent G. Burns, Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, Julia W. Gardner and T. H. Aldrich. David Starr 

 Jordan and Masamitsu Oshima, Ezra T. Cresson, Jr., and S. Tillman 

 Berry. 



Three-hundred and fifty-nine pages and fourteen plates of the 

 Proceedings were issued. 



The Entomological Section (American Entomological Society) has 

 published three-hundred and ninety-six pages and thirty-five plates 

 of its Transactions, seventy-eight pages and twenty plates of 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Memoirs, and three-hundred and four pages and eleven plates of 

 the Entomological News. 



Of the Manual of Conchology, parts 98 and 99, of volume 25, 

 second series, comprising one-hundred and eighty pages and eighteea 

 colored plates, have been issued by Dr. Pilsbry, Curator of MoUuscn. 



Seven members have been elected during the year, and the deaths 

 of eleven have been announced. Three members have resigned. 



The Ludwick Institute Free Lecture Courses were delivered at the 

 Academy, in the evening on Mondays, January 7, to April 22 inch, 

 and in the mornings during the spring at the several High Schools, 

 by Witmer Stone, Henry W. Fowler, James A. G. Rehn, Spencer 

 Trotter, Henry A. Pilsbry, J. Percy Moore, and J. Fletcher Street. 

 All lectures were illustrated by lantern slides. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Philadelphia 

 Botanical Club have continued their meetings in the Academy; and 

 meetings of the Women Teachers' Association of Philadelphia, and 

 The State Graduate Nurses' Association, were held in the Lecture 

 Hall. 



Edw. J. Nolan, Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



Deaths of the following named correspondents were announced 

 during the year. Raphael Blanchard, Frederick DuCane Godman, 

 William J. Farlow, Gustav Retzius, and Ernst Haeckel. No corres- 

 pondents were elected. 



A slight increase in the volume of foreign correspondence reflects 

 the renewal of scientific activities since the cessation of hostilities, 

 but most of the antebellum agencies for effecting scientific coopera- 

 tion remain disorganized. 



There have been no international congresses to which the Academy 

 was invited. An invitation from the Academy of Literature, Sci- 

 ences, Arts and Agriculture of Metz to participate in the celebration 

 of its reestablishment after forty-nine years of suppression by the 

 German conquerers was received and answered by a congratulatory 

 letter. 



A copy of a resolution thanking the Academy for courtesies extended 

 during its convention in Philadelphia was received from the American 

 Association of Museums. In connection with the removal of the 

 offices and exhibits of the Pennsylvania Department of Health a 

 letter expressive of appreciation of favors rendered by the Academy 

 was received from the new Commissioner of Health. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Inquiries for information were answered as usual. 

 Statistics of the correspondence follow: 



Communications received : 



Acknowledging the receipt of the Academy's publications 107 



Transmitting publications to the Academy 35 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 9 



Invitations to learned gatherings, celebrations, etc ". 2 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 4 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational institu- 

 tions, etc 9 



Letters from correspondents) 



> 48 



Miscellaneous letters J 



Total received 214 



Communications forwarded : 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library 789 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies 131 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 95 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 2 



Letters of sympathy or congratulation, addresses, etc 3 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' credentials 7 



Miscellaneous letters 117 



Annual reports and circulars sent to correspondents 280 



Total forwarded 1424 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



Your Librarian has to again make acknowledgments to the Assis- 

 tant Librarian, William J. Fox, for performing the duties of the office 

 during the past year. The present report has been prepared entirely 

 by Mr. Fox. 



During the past year the additions to the library total 4,824, an 

 increase over the previous year. These consisted of 4,245 pamphlets 

 and parts of periodicals, 490 volumes, 88 maps, and one engraved 

 portrait. 



They were received from the following sources: 



Exchange 2279 



Isaiah V. Williamson Fund 1303 



United States Department of Agriculture 452 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 226 



Authors 93 



United States Department of the Interior 38 



Pennsylvania State Library 34 



Editors 31 



American Entomological Society 23 



Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station 20 



Tennessee State Board of Entomology 20 



Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology ■ 18 



Imperial Department of Agriculture, British West Indies 18 



United States Department of Commerce 14 



Miss Alice J. Smith 14 



Statens Skogforsokanstalt 13 



Dr. Henry Skinner 14 



Utah Agricultural College Experiment Station 13 



Pan American Scientific Congress 11 



Samuel G. Gordon 11 



Colonel George W. Norris 11 



California State Commission of Horticulture 10 



North Carolina Geological and Economic Survey 7 



State Geological Survey, Tennessee 7 



Secretaria de Agricultura y Fomento, Mexico 6 



Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation 6 



Trustees of the British Museum 6 



California Fish and Game Commission 5 



New York Agricultural Experiment Station 5 



Publication Committee of the Academy 5 



Dr. Edward J. Nolan 5 



Michigan Geological and Biological Survey 4 



University of Wyoming 5 



John Lawrence 4 



Queensland Department of Mines o 



Roger Williams Park Museum 4 



Thomas B. Wilson Fund 4 



Princeton University Department of Geology 4 



United States Treasury Department 4 



Royal Scottish Museum, Edinburgh 3 



Dr. W. L. Abbott 3 



Cuerpo de Ingenieros de Minas del Peru 3 



United States War Department 3 



Ohara Institut fiir landwirthschaftliche Forschungtn 2 



Geological Survey of Georgia 2 



Department of Trade and Customs, Australia 2 



University of Tennessee 2 



Argentine Government 2 



San Diego Museum Association 2 



Mississippi State Geological Survey 2 



Iowa Geological Survey 2 



Mrs. C. J. Pennock 2 



21 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



New York State Archeological Association, Morgan Chapter 2 



State Board of Charities, New York 



Geological Survey of Great Britian 



Philadelphia Museums 



State Geological Survey of Kansas 



Bristol Museum and Art Gallery 



Delaware County Institute of Science 



Observatorio de Madrid 



Colorado Museum of Natural History 



William J. Fox 



Danish Government 



Botanical Society of America 



Lewis S. Ware 



Deseret Museum 



Louisiana State Museum 



San Diego Society of Natural History 



Westwood Astrophysical Observatory 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club 



Museum of Comparative Oology 



Bermuda Biological Station for Research 



Entomological Society of Nova Scotia 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia 



Florida State Geological Survey 



New South Wales State Fisheries 



Commissioners on Fisheries and Game, Massachusetts 



St. Louis Natural History Association 



E. R. Squibb and Sons 



United States Brewers' Association 



East Indian Government 



West Virginia Geological Survey 



Escola Superior da Agricultura e Medicina Veterinaria, Nictheroy 



Government of Formosa 



Lithuanian National Council, U. S. A 



The Peruvian Corporation Ltd 



Boston City Hospital 



Geological Survey of Alabama 



Mechanics' Institute, San Francisco 



Natural Resources Intelligence Branch, Dep't of the Interior, Canada 



Dr. Harry F. Keller 



New Jersey Department of Conservation and Development 



National Parks Association 



They have been distributed to the various departments of the li- 

 brary as follows; 



Journals 3248 



Agriculture 647 



Geology 317 



Botany 117 



Geography 106 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



General Natural History 87 



Entomology 46 



Anatomy and Physiology 40 



Ornithology 36 



Voyages and Travels 23 



Anthropology 20 



Medicine 18 



Ichthyology 16 



Mineralogy -. . . . 17 



Bibliography 11 



Chemistry 11 



Physical Science 10 



Conchology 9 



Helminthology 9 



Mathematics 6 



Herpetology 5 



Mammalogy 4 



Miscellaneous 21 



The following journals were added to the Ubrary: 



Academia de Ciencias exactas, fisica-quimicas y naturales de Zaragoza. 



Anales Mexicanos de Ciencias, etc., 1 vol., 1860. 



American Fisheries Society, Transactions. 



Canadian Field Naturalist. Ottawa. 



De Re Indica. Caracas. 



Giornale per la Morfologia dell' Uomo e dei Primati. Pavia. 



Mexico (El) Antigua. Mexico. 



Mining Review (South Austraha Department of Mines). 



Musea. Revue de I'Association des Museums de Province. Havre. 



Museum of Comparative Oology. Journal. 



Ohara Institut fiir landwirthschaftliche Forschungen. Berichte. 



Rivista di Biologia. Roma. 



Science and Industry. Melbourne. 



Svenska Vetenskaps Akademiens Protokoll, 1739 och 1741. 



Treubia. 'sLands Plantentuin te Buitenzorg. 



Among the more important works added to the library are: 



Leonhard Fuchs, De Stirpium Historia . . . 1542. G. Thuret, Etudes 

 Phycologiques. J. C. Sepp, Nederlandsche Insecten. 14 vols. 1762-1905. 

 Sven Hedin, Southern Tibet. Hume and Marshall, Game Birds of India. 3 vols. 

 1879-1881. 



Four hundred and ninetj^-eight volumes have been bound. 



Four volumes and 124 parts of periodicals have been returned to 

 the Superintendent of Public Documents at Washington, and 71 

 volumes and 144 pamphlets have been transferred to the Free Li- 

 brary of Philadelphia, these being non-essential to the Academy's 

 interests. 



Part of the book stack has been rearranged to allow for growth 

 in certain departments. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Eight hundred and seventy-four volumes and parts of periodicals 

 were used on the premises by the scientific staff, and 105 volumes 

 were borrowed. No record was kept of books used in the reading 

 room. 



The cooperation of Miss H. N. Wardle in the library is thankfully 

 acknowledged. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The impossibility of obtaining metal cases and the greatly in- 

 creased cost of everything connected with museum exhibits have 

 seriously handicapped the Curators in any effort toward the instal- 

 ment of new exhibits during the past year as well as in the better 

 arrangement of the study collections. 



It has nevertheless been possible to keep the collections and the 

 buildings in excellent condition, to properly care for all accessions 

 and to make some notable improvements in the quarters of several of 

 the departments. 



The removal of the offices of the State Department of Health to 

 Harrisburg on July 1st, last, and the consequent vacating of the 

 rooms which they had occupied for many years made these quarters 

 in the east of the north wing available for museum purposes and the 

 botanical department was immediately installed there. The in- 

 creased light in these rooms makes them much better suited for the 

 work of the botanical staff and greatly facilitates the consultation of 

 the herbarium. One of the old rooms at the west end of the north 

 wing has been retained as a botanical storage room where collections 

 can be roughly sorted and prepared for mounting. 



The other rooms at the west end of the north wing were alloted to 

 the mineralogical and geological department which in turn vacated 

 the room on the fourth floor of the south wing which it had tempor- 

 arily occupied, and which now reverts to the department of marine 

 invertebrates. A dark room was erected in the new mineralogical 

 quarters and running water was supplied in the herbarium. 



The alterations to the heating plant outlined in last years report 

 were completed during the summer and a telephone exchange estab- 

 lished on the fourth floor of the middle wing in charge of a steno- 

 grapher, where the clerical work of the curators can be carried on. 



The large plaster shades hung below the ceiling lights on the first 

 floor of the museum were removed as they had proved unsatisfactory 

 and were in danger of falling. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



The Indian elephant "BoUvar, " which had never been a suitable 

 specimen for mounting, deteriorated to such an extent that it was re- 

 moved and dismounted during the autumn. 



Five storage cases for moUusks and five for birds' nests and eggs, 

 with the necessary trays were secured with the balance of the State 

 appropriation of 1917. The latter have been arranged in the hall- 

 way on the fourth floor forming a small room in which the entire 

 oological collection will be arranged. 



Special educational exhibits were installed during the spring. One, 

 consisting of mounted wild flowers from the herbarium, was displayed 

 inside the large cases containing the forestry exhibit and was added 

 to from time to time as the season advanced, so that it illustrated 

 at any time the wild flowers to be found in bloom in the vicinity 

 of Philadelphia. 



The other consisted of bird skins from the study collection, the 

 winter species being installed first and the others on approximately 

 the date at which they arrive from the South so that the series at all 

 times showed the wild birds to be found about the City. These col- 

 lections were an innovation and attracted much attention among 

 students of local natural history and the classes of school children 

 which visited the museum in large numbers. 



While most of the time of the museum staff was fully occupied in 

 the care of the collections, it was also possible to do considerable 

 field work. 



Dr. Stone was granted leave of absence for three months. May 15, 

 to August 15, and visited the Chiricahua Mountains, southern Ari- 

 zona, the expenses being largely born by the Redfield botanical fund. 

 He obtained a large collection of plants from a region not heretofore 

 represented in the Academy's herbarium, as well as several thou- 

 sand insects, and many birds, mammals and reptiles. The success 

 of this expedition was largely due to the generosity of Mr. J. 

 Eugene Law of California, who had invited Dr. Stone to be his 

 guest at his camp in the Chiricahuas and did everything in his power 

 to further the interests of the Academy. In the same connection 

 the Academy is under obligations to Mr. Frank H. Hands of 

 Pinery Canyon in the same mountains. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard conducted another expedition to the south- 

 western United States during July, August and September primarily 

 for the collection of Orthoptera visiting such localities as the Death 

 Valley, Mts. Whitney, San Gorgonio and Charleston. As on previous 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



trips he generously took Mr. Rehn of the Academy staff with him 

 and shared his collections with the institution. 



Local trips were taken by other members of the staff which resulted 

 in the acquirement of much valuable material while collections be- 

 longing to other institutions or individuals were identified by our 

 specialists in return for a series of the duplicates. 



The details of work in the several departments of the museum 

 follow : 



Mammals. 



As in previous years many valuable specimens were received from 

 the Zoological Society of Philadelphia which have been prepared as 

 skins, or skeletons. The taxidermist Mr. McCadden has been con- 

 stantly engaged upon the preparation of such material and in the 

 cleaning of skeletons obtained in previous years. A large number 

 of such osteological material has thus been added to the study series, 

 and an African Wart Hog and Kinhajou have been mounted during 

 the year. 



Specimens were loaned to E. W. Nelson. 



Birds. 



A number of valuable local nests and sets of eggs were added to the 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Collection, while to the study 

 collection of skins the most notable accessions were a large series of 

 Colombian birds obtained by purchase from M. A. Carriker; a num- 

 ber of skins from French Guiana and Senegambia presented by the 

 Philadelphia Museums, a collection of local birds, mainly mounted, 

 from Mr. E. W. Woolman and some 200 specimens from Arizona 

 collected by Dr. Stone. 



Considerable rearrangement of the study collection was accomp- 

 lished during the year and much miscellaneous material mounted 

 and unmounted made readily available. 



Many specimens received from the Zoological Society were pre- 

 pared either as skins or osteological specimens which were catalogued 

 and added to the series. 



Many ornithologists have studied the collections during the year 

 and specimens were loaned to H. C. Oberholser, and C. B. Cory. 



Reptiles and Fishes. 

 Mr. Henry W. Fowler who has continued in charge of this depart- 

 ment reports that a large number of specimens have been received 

 during the year, notable among which have been 30 specimens of 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



lizards from the Congo region presented by the American Museum 

 of Natural History, a series of reptiles from the Death Valley and 

 other localities in the western United States, collected by Messrs. 

 Hebard and Rehn and 75 specimens of reptiles obtained in Arizona 

 by Dr. Stone. A number of fishes from Pennsylvania and New Jersey 

 were obtained by Mr. Fowler and other local collectors. 



During the past year Mr. Fowler has catalogued, determined and 

 labelled 738 specimens of fishes and has published three papers in 

 the Academy's Proceedings involving the study and identification 

 of many specimens in the collection. 



He has also received for study from the U. S. National Museum the 

 fishes obtained by the U. S. Exploring Expedition of 1839 to 1842, 

 upon which he is preparing a report and of which the Academy will 

 receive a duplicate series. 



The collections have been consulted by several visiting specialists 

 and material loaned to Alexander Ruthven and Thomas Barbour. 



MOLLUSKS. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry in charge of the department of Mollusks 

 reports that specimens were received during the year from 72 donors, 

 among the more valuable gifts being 646 lots of North American 

 fresh-water shells from Bryant Walker, selected by Dr. Pilsbry, and 

 a series of Arizona shells and alcoholic specimens collected and pre- 

 sented by James H. Ferriss and A. A. Hinkley. Dr. V. Sterki sup- 

 plied paratypes of numerous species of Sphaeriidse and Mr. A. A. 

 Hinkley a series of shells from Guatemala including types of new 

 species. Mr. C. T. Simpson presented a large series of the hand- 

 some tree snails of Florida from newly explored localities in the Ever- 

 glades and elsewhere; and substantial additions to the Pennsylvania 

 and New Jersej' collections have been made by E. G. Vanatta and 

 Bayard Long. 



Studies on the family Pupillidse have been continued during the 

 year and published in volume XXV of the Manual of Conchology 

 which has been completed, the last part being now in press, Dr. C. 

 Montague Cooke having collaborated in the description of the 

 Hawaiian species. Work has also been done on a report on the 

 mollusca of New York and many specimens have been determined 

 for correspondents. 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta has continued the arrangement of the collec- 

 tions, the preparation of material for the museum, and has published 

 four short articles on new material received. Miss Ziegler has made 

 good progress in cataloguing the tertiary fossils. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Specimens have been loaned for study to Dr. Paul Bartsch, Mr. 

 J. B. Henderson and Dr. V. Sterki. 



Insects. 



Dr. Henry Skinner, head of the Entomological department, reports 

 that as usual a large amount of material has been incorporated in the 

 collections during the year but lack of cases has seriously retarded 

 its arrangement. He has, however, completed the rearrangement 

 of the large group of the exotic Hesperidse. 



Notable additions to the collection have been 75 diptera from the 

 western United States and Alaska from F. M. Jones; some rare East 

 Indian and South American lepidoptera from W. J. Coxey; 356 lepi- 

 doptera from Panama and Costa Rica, from D. E. Harrower; a 

 gynandromorphic Papilio turnus from G. F. Pettinos, Jr.; a collec- 

 tion from the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona, froni Dr. W. Stone, 

 consisting of about 4000 specimens; a large series of orthoptera and 

 many coleoptera etc., from Morgan Hebard. 



Mr. E. T. Cresson, Jr., has prepared a revision of the dipterous 

 family, Sciomyzidse, which is now in press, while the family An- 

 thomyidse has been studied by J. R. Malloch, Many new species 

 of diptera have been received in return for identification of material 

 sent by other institutions. 



In orthoptera, Mr. J. A. G. Rehn has rearranged several groups 

 so as to admit of the incorporation of newly received or determined 

 material and has mounted and labelled many specimens. His studies 

 during the year have covered the West Indian Blattidae, African 

 BlattidsB and a revision of the North American Trimerotropi. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard, who has continued his researches at the 

 Academy during the year, has completed a study of the Colombian 

 dermaptera and orthoptera and also a monograph of the Blattidae 

 of Panama, and a report on Mantidse from Malaysia^ Papua and Aus- 

 tralia. 



Numerous entomologists have studied the collections and specimens 

 were borrowed for study by Chas. Schaeffer and Edw. C. Van Dyke. 



Plants. 



The transfer of the herbarium to new quarters at the east end of 

 the north wing, has already been mentioned. Mr. Stewardson Brown, 

 in charge of this department, reports that the general series of plants 

 has been arranged in the three lower rooms, the local collection in the 

 middle room on the upper floor and the cryptogams in the south 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



room, the deSchweinitz and other historic collections being arranged 

 in a fireproof vault which had been erected there. The north room 

 has been fitted up for the mounting and preparation of specimens. 



During the year, Miss Ada Allen, who has continued as an aid in 

 the department, has mounted upwards of 3700 sheets of specimens 

 comprising the remainder of the Joel Carter herbarium exclusive of 

 the local material, 302 specimens from California, and 613 sheets of 

 New England plants both of which were received by purchase. Most 

 of these have been catalogued by Mr. Brown and distributed. Much 

 additional time was spent in the general arrangement of the herbar- 

 ium in its new quarters. 



Mr. Bayard Long has spent much time in the critical study of 

 various groups in the local herbarium and in its general supervision. 



Much use has been made of the herbarium by visiting botanists 

 and specimens have been loaned to C. A. Wetherby, M. L. Fernald, 

 W. B. Maxon, C. Schneider, A. L. Grant and F. L. Stevens. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



The change of location in this department to rooms adjacent to the 

 exhibition collections of minerals has been very advantageous as it 

 brings all of the mineralogical and geological material into close as- 

 sociation where it is readily available for consultation. 



The collection of Pennsylvania minerals has been transferred to 

 the gallery of the mineral hall formerly occupied by the State Depart- 

 ment of Health exhibit, where there is abundant room for its ex- 

 pansion. 



The Curators are again indebted to Mr. Frank J. Keeley, curator of 

 the William S. Vaux Collections, and to Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, a 

 student of the Jessup Fund, for all the attention that has been given 

 to this department. Mr. Gordon has cared for the various accessions 

 and has completed an examination of the old collecttons and dupli- 

 cates stored in the building, preparing the latter for gift or exchange 

 to other institutions. He has also made a number of field trips to 

 various counties in Pennsylvania and obtained many specimens of 

 great value to the State collection. 



Archeology. 



Miss H. N.Wardle,.who has cared for the collections in this depart- 

 ment, reports that considerable shifting of exhibits has been necessary 

 to make room for accessions or the display of material not hitherto 

 on exhibition, many specimens from the A. H. Gottschall collection 

 of North American Indian material having been thus displayed. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



She attended to the packing, transfer and exhibit of a large and 

 very valuable series of shell heap material collected by Mr. Clarence 

 B. Moore on his early explorations in Florida, which was originally 

 presented to the Wagner Free Institute of Science, but which through 

 a generous donation, the Academy w^as enabled to secure for arrange- 

 ment with the rest of the Clarence B. Moore collection. 



Owing to the coal regulations and other hindrances, Mr. Moore's 

 usual autumn expedition in the southern states was prevented, while 

 his spring exploration in Florida was not very productive, owing to 

 the country visited having been so thoroughly covered by his pre- 



^ * Wither Stone, Chairman. 



Report of the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections, 



December 1, 1919. 



During the past year, the offices of the William S. Vaux Collections 

 have been removed to the northwest corner of the building, where, 

 with ample space, it is hoped to develop an adequate mineralogical 

 laboratory. 



All accessions to date, have been incorporated in the collection, 

 after being catalogued and labelled by Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, who 

 has presented the choice of the specimens, thirty-four in all, secured 

 in connection with his collecting trips over the season, including an 

 unrivalled suite of Nesquehonite and other interesting minerals from 

 Pennsylvania localities. 



Other gifts were received from the following donors : 



Thomas Harvey. Almandite, Columbite, Tourmaline, Beryl, 

 Corundum. — Delaware Co., Penna. 



E. S. Moore. Calcite. — Montana. 



Bently R. Morrison. Cacoxenite, Apophyllite, Byssolite. — Lan- 

 caster County and Chester County, Penna. 



Frederick Pierce. Columbite and Monazite. — Boothwyn, Penna. 



Washington A. Roebling. Epidsmine. — Moore Station, N. J. 



Frederick Oldach. Epidesmine. — Robeson, Penna. 



Twelve specimens were purchased, of which one of the most im- 

 portant was crystallized orpiment from Japan. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



F. J. Keeley, Curator, Wm. S. Vaux Collections. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 

 The Biological and Microscopical Section. — The Biological 

 and Microscopical Section held nine stated meetings during the year. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



Weekly excursions were made, except during July and August and 

 the winter months, to various localities, for collecting purposes. 



At the suggestion of Mr. H. F. Munro, a class in miscroscopic 

 technique has been formed and now meets once a month for the pur- 

 pose of giving instruction to non-members of the Section. The mem- 

 bership now numbers about twenty and is open to all applicants. 



Communications on various subjects have been made by the fol- 

 lowing members of the Section: Messrs. T. Chalkley Palmer, Hugo 

 Bilgram, B. F. Ray, Dr. Thomas Stewart, J. W. Palmer, John G. 

 Rothermel, Walter Palmer, F. J. Keeley, H. F. Munro, W. H. Van 

 Sickel and Charles S. Boyer. 



The following donations to the Sections are reported: 



From Miss Elizabeth S. Brown, the miscroscopical collection of 

 Dr. Amos P. Brown, including a Queen Acme microscope, a Leitz 

 mineralogical microscope, a Beck petrographical microscope, 

 twenty-four objectives, a series of accessories and an object cabinet 

 containing about twelve hundred mounted objects. 



From the Estate of Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, a mahogany object 

 cabinet, with about two hundred and seventy-five slides of Bacteria. 



The following have been elected officers for the year 1920: 



Director J. Cheston Morris, M. D, 



Vice-Director T. Chalkley Palmer 



Recorder Charles S. Boyer 



Corresponding Secretary Walter Palmer 



Treasurer Thomas S. Stewart, M. D. 



Conservator F. J, Keeley 



Charles S. Boyer, Recorder. 



Entomological Section. — The Section held the usual stated 

 meetings during the year, with an average attendance of eleven 

 persons. Wm. J. Coxey was elected a member and Robert L. 

 Haines, a Contributor. Interesting communications were made 

 by J. A. G. Rehn, PhiHp Laurent, J. H. West, J. C. Bradley, Henry 

 Skinner, W. J. Chamberlain, P. P. Calvert, Morgan Hebard and J. 

 J. Davis. 



The following officers and committees were elected to serve for 

 1920: 



Director Philip Laurent 



Vice-Director R. C. Williams, Jr. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Conservator Henry Skinner, M. D., Sc. D. 



Secretary J. A. G. Rehn 



Recorder E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Publication Committee E. T. Cresson, 



P. P. Calvert, Ph. D., 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr., Recorder. 



Botanical Section. — Officers to serve for the year 1920 were 

 elected as follows : 



Director Joseph Crawford 



Vice Director Alexander MacElwee 



Recorder John W. Eckfeldt, M. D. 



Treasurer Stewardson Brown 



Conservator Stewardson Brown 



John W. Eckfeldt, M. D., Recorder. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section. — Owing to the serious 

 illness of the Director, Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman, no w^-itten re- 

 port was received, but Mr. Frank J. Keeley, the Vice-Director, re- 

 ported verbally that several meetings had been held, and in conjunc- 

 tion with the Biological and Miscroscopical Section, twenty-four 

 field excursions had been given. The Officers of the Section are: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director Frank J. Keeley 



Recorder and Secretary William B. Davis 



Treasurer Benjamin Smith Lyman 



Conservator George Vaux, Jr. 



Ornithological Section. — The Section has continued its function 

 of encouraging ornithological activity at the Academy during the 

 year. The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has held regular 

 meetings in the ornithological room and has been instrumental in 

 bringing much material to the department and in interesting many 

 persons in its development. 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were 

 elected for the year 1920: 



Director. > ' Spencer Trotter, M. D. 



Vice-Director George Spencer Morris 



Recorder Stewardson Brown 



Secretary William A. Shryock 



Treasurer and Conservator AVitmer Stone 



Wither Stone, Conservator. 

 « 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and members of the 

 Committe on Accounts was held December 16th, with the following 

 result : 



President John Cadwalader, A. M., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D. 



Henry Skinner, M. D., Sc.D 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M, D., Sc.D, 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M. D., Sc.D. 



Curators Witmer Stone, A. M., Sc. D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc. D. 



Henry Tucker, M. D. 



Spencer Trotter, M. D. 

 Councillors to serve three 



YEARS Edwin S. Dixon. 



Robert G. LeConte, M. D. 



George Spencer Morris. 



George L. Harrison, Jr. 

 Committee on Accounts , . .Charles Morris. 



Samuel N. Rhoads. 



John G. Rothermel. 



Thomas S. Stewart, M. D. 



Walter Horstmann. 



COUNCIL FOR 1920. 



Ex-Officio. — John Cadwalader, A. M., LL. D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph. D., Sc. D., Henry Skinner, M. D., Sc. D., Edward J. Nolan, 

 M. D., Sc. D., J. Percy Moore, Ph. D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, Sc. D., Witmer Stone, A. M., Sc. D., Henry Tucker, 

 M. D., Spencer Trotter, M. D. 



To serve three years.- — Edwin S. Dixon, Robert G. LeConte, M. D., 

 George Spencer Morris, George L. Harrison, Jr. 



To serve two years. — Philip P. Calvert, Ph. D., Frank J. Keeley, 

 Walter Horstmann, T. Chalkley Palmer. 



To serve one year. — Charles B. Penrose, M. D., LL. D., Ph. D., 

 Charles Morris, William E. Hughes, M. D., Roswell C. Williams, 

 Jr. 



Councillor " George Vaux, Jr. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



LIBRARY STAFF. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



MUSEUM STAFF. 



Department of Vertebrate Zoology 



Witmer Stone, Special Curator. 



Henry W. Fowler, Assistant Curator (Reptiles and Fishes). 



James A. G. Rehn, Assistant Curator (Mammals). 

 Department of Invertebrate Zoology (exclusive of Insects) 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Special Curator. 



Edward G, Vanatta, Assistant Curator. 

 Department of Insects 



Henry Skinner, Special Curator. 



James A. G. Rehn, Assistant Curator. 



Ezra T. Cresson, Jr., Assistant Curator. 



Morgan Hebard, Research Associate. 

 Department of Botany 



Stewardson Brown, Assistant Curator (in charge). 



Bayard Long, Research Associate. 



Ada Allen, Aid. 

 Department of Mineralogy and Geology 



Frank J. Keeley, Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections. 



Samuel G. Gordon, Aid (in charge of general collection). 

 Department of Archeology 



Harriet Newell Wardle, Aid (in charge). 

 Artist 



Helen AVinchester. 

 Taxidermist 



David McCadden. 



STANDING COMMITTEES, 1920. 



Finance. — Effingham B. Morris, John Cadwalader, A. M., LL. D., 



Edwin S. Dixon, Walter Horstmann, and the Treasurer. 

 Publication. — Henry Skinner, M. D., Sc. D., Witmer Stone, A. M., 



Sc. D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc. D., Edward J. Nolan, M. D., Sc. D., 



William J. Fox. 

 Library. — Henry Tucker, M. D., Frank J. Keeley, Witmer Stone, 



A. M., Sc. D., Spencer Trotter, M. D., T. Chalkley Palmer. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Instruction and Lectures. — Henry Skinner, M. D., Henry A. 



Pilsbry, Sc. D., Charles Morris, James A. G. Rehn, George S. 

 Morris. 



ELECTIONS IN 1919. 



Members. 

 February 18. — W. Judson Coxey. 

 A'pril 15. — Edgar Fahs Smith. 



November 18. — WiUiam H. Van Sickel, Walter Palmer, Hampton L. 

 Carson, Anne Hinchman, Arthur Cope Emlen. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM 



1919. 



Mammals. 



Miss M. C. Booth. Mole {Scalopus aquaticus). Haverford, Penna. 



Samuel W. Green. Skull of Black Bear {Ursus americanus). Moscow, Pa. 



Richard C. Harlon. Woodland Jumping Mouse {Napaeozapus insignis). 

 Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania. 



Purchased. New York Weasel {Putorius noveboracensis). State College, Pa. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Fifty mammals. Cliiricahua Mountains, Arizona. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Mounted. Kinkajou (Potos caudivolvulus) . Skin and Skeleton. Orang-utan 

 (Pongo pygmaeus). Huanaco {Lama glama). Young male Sumatran Elephant 

 (Elephas maximus sumatranus) . Skin and skull, Warthog {Phacochoerus afri- 

 canus). Pale Cebus (Cebus flavescens). Night Monkej^ {Nyctipithecus irivir- 

 gatus). Two Ocelots {Felis pardalis). Brazalian Ocelot {Felis chibigouazou) . 

 Jungle Cat (Felis chaus). Young Wild Horse {Equiis prej n alskii) . Two warthogs 

 {Phacochoerus africanus), 2 male and female. Spring-bok (Antidorcas euchore). 

 Red Kangaroo {Macropus rufus). Black-tailed Wallaby {Macropus ualabatus). 

 Skeleton, Dromedary {Camelus dromedarius) . Skull, Pigtailed Macaque 

 {Macaca nemestrina) . Raccoon-like Dog {Canis procyonoides) . 



Birds. 



Mrs. Howard Gamble. Rose-breasted Cockatoo (Cacatoes roseicapilla) . 



Chas. G. Herman. Eighteen skins of birds. Nicaragua. 



Mrs. Emma J. Lewis. Egg of Sulphur-crested Cockatoo. 



W. W. McCall. Skin of Weaver Finch. 



Purchased. 650 skins of Colombian birds. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Two hundred and two birds and six sets of birds' eggs. 

 Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona. 



Mrs. E. M. Swainson. Mounted Mourning Dove {Zenadua macroura). 

 New York State. 



Miss B. Town. Several bird skins. New Zealand and New Guinea. 



Dr. IVI. p. Warmuth. Two cases of mounted birds. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



E. W. WooLMAN. Collection of mounted birds and bird skins. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Skin and skeleton. Cassowary (Casuarius species). Skin and sternum, 

 Horned Screamer {Chauna chavaria). Gray-lag Goose (Anser anser). Skin, 

 Coscoroba Swan (Coscoroba coscoroba) . Cereopsis Goose {Cereopsis novae-hollan- 

 diae). Ruddy Flamingo {Phoenicopteris ruber). Stanley's Crane (Tetrapteryx 

 paradisea). King Vulture {Gtjpaegus papa). Skull and sternum, Anhinga 

 {Anhinga anhinga). Skull, Orinoco Goose {Alopochen jubata). Scarlet Ibis 

 {Guara rubra). Sarus Crane {Antigone antigone). Lilford's Crane {Grus lilfordi). 

 Red-sided Electus (Electus roratus) . Senegal Parrot (Pdocephalus senegalensis). 

 Satin Bower Bird {Ptilorhynchus violacea). 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



American Museum of Natural History. Collection of reptiles. Belgian 

 Congo. 



G. W. Bassett. Shell of Box Tortoise. New Jersey. 



Hebard-Academy Expedition of 1919. Collection of reptiles and amphi- 

 bians. Arizona, Nevada and California. 



Russell Rosenfeldt. Newt (Diemictylus viridescens) . Massachusetts. 



Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. Gila Monster (Heloderma suspectum). Arizona. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Seventy-five reptiles and amphibians. Chiricahua 

 Mountains, Arizona. 



Albert S. Thompson. Jar of reptiles and amphibians. Deerfield, Va. 



University of Michigan Museum (in exchange). Ranodon and Rana. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Young American Crocodile {Croco- 

 dilus americanus). 



Fishes. 



William Duncan. Star Gazer (Astrospedus guttatus). 



H. W. Fowler. Five jars of fishes. Bucks, Cumberland and Franklin 

 Coimties, Pennsylvania. 



Hebard-Academy Expedition of 1919. Small lot of fishes. Beatty, Nevada. 



Morgan Hebard. Rhombochirus. Florida. Three jars of fishes, Charlotte 

 Harbor, Florida. 



Hermano Apolinar Maria. Catfish. Colombia. 



E. S. Mattern and H. W. Fowler. Two jars of fishes. Berks County, Pa. 



T. L. Hankinson. Four jars of fishes. Palisades, New Jersey. 



W. L. Paulin. Three Pterophyllum scalare. 



University of Michigan Museum (in exchange). Etheosoma ioivae and 

 Catostonus catostomus. 



Dr. R. W. Van Deusen and H. W. Fow^ler. Three jars of fishes. Cumber- 

 land and Salem Counties, New Jersey. 



Witmer Stone. Several specimens from the Chiricahua Mts., Ari cna. 



Insects 

 W. L. Abbott. One butterfly, San Domingo. 

 A. R. Allen. Seven insects, Texas. 

 William Beutenmuller. Twenty Cynipidse. 



Annette F. Braun. Twenty-four Microlepidoptera, Ohio. Two Coleophora 

 amaranthella (para types), Ohio. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



Philip P. Calvert. Psilophora maculaia (type), Costa Rica. Eighteen in- 

 sects, Costa Rica. 



Jose Cabrera. Three specimens of Blattidae. 

 D. M. Castle. Twenty-five inssects. New Jersey. 

 T. D. A. Cockiuell. Eighty Hymenoptera, South America. 

 W. J. CoxEY. Morpho rhetenor, French Guiana. Morpho eugenia, French 

 Guiana. 



Nine exotic Lepidoptera. Antheraea helena, Austraha. Three butterflies 

 from Assam and Java. Papilio coon, Java. 

 . W. J. Cresson, Jr. One moth, Swarthmore, Penna. 

 W. T. Davis. Cacarna variegata (cotype), Texas. 

 J. H. Ferris. Four Coleoptera, New Mexico. 

 Exchange. Sixty butterflies, Utah. 

 W. J. Fox. Two Coleoptera, Philadelphia. 

 George M. Green. Fifty-two Coleoptera, United States. 

 Frank Haimbach. Eight Catocala, New Mexico. Two moths, New Jensey. 

 D. E. Harrower. Three hundred and fifty-six Lepidoptera, Central America. 

 Twenty insects. Central America. 



Hawaiian Sugar Pl.anter's Association. Nine Orthoptera, Philippines. 

 Morgan Hebard. Four thousand five hundred Orthoptera, western United 

 States. Twenty-three Orthoptera, Colombia. Two hundred and twenty-five 

 Orthoptera, Mexico and Central America. Nineteen Orthoptera; Japan. Seven 

 Orthoptera, United States. Sixteen Lepidoptera, Florida. One Plusia, Florida. . 

 Twenty-three insects, Florida. Twenty-two Lepidoptera, Florida. Fifteen 

 Coleoptera, United States. Sixty-three insects, Florida. 



Herman Hornig. One hundred and fifty Diptera, Philadelphia. 

 A. R. Illiff. Nineteen Orthoptera, New Mexico. 



Frank M. Jones. Seventy-five Diptera, and 41 Orthoptera, Western United 

 States. 



J. N. Knull. Two Dicera lepida, Pennsylvania. 

 A. W. LiNDSEY. Five Hesperida", South America. 

 Frank R. Mason. Nothus luteus, California. 



Levi W. Mengel. One moth, Colombia. Perisama sinerubra (type), Bolivia. 

 R. Ottolengui. Five moths, California. 



George F. Pettinos, Jr. Gynandromorphic Papilio glaucus, Merion, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Purchased. Four hundred and fifty-two Orthoptera, Para, Brazil. Five 

 hundred and ten Orthoptera, Argentina. Seventeen Cicada, sixty-six Argynnis, 

 Neuroptera, Colorado. 



Henry Skinner. Twenty-one insects, White Mountains, New Hampshire. 

 Twenty-one butterfllies, Arizona. 



State Department of Agriculture. Eight Diptera, Pennsylvania. 

 Wither Stone. Four thousand insects from the Chiricahua Mountains, 

 Arizona. 



University of Michigan. Two hundred and forty-two Diptera, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



University of California. Eleven Orthoptera, California. 

 E. C. Van Dyke. Four Coleoptera, CaUfornia. 

 L. H. Weld. Two Charips leguminosa (paratypes), Idaho. 

 John H. West. Six Catocala, Utah. 



22 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Recent Mollusca. 

 Dr. W. L. Abbott. Seventy-six trays of shells from Hayti. 

 W. O. Abbott. Twenty-eight trays of shells from Massachusetts and Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Jacob Aebly. Ilyanassa obsoleta Say from a duck. 



Reginald Allen. Five species of marine shells. 



A. Bailey. Sphaerium sulcatum Lam. from Columbia, New York. 



F. C. Baker. Six species of freshwater shells from New York and Illinois. 

 Dr. Fred Baker. Four species of shells from Bra/Jl. 



Mrs. W. L. Baker. Twenty-five species of marine shells from Florida. 

 Nathan Banks. Bulimulus liquabilis Rve from near Brownsville, Texas. 

 S. S. Berry. Nine trays of land shells from California. 

 Dr. J. Bequaert. Six species of African land shells. 



Hugo Bilgram. Polinices duplicata Say from Atlantic City, New Jersey. 

 Louis H. Bregg. Twelve species of land and marine shells. 

 Dr. W. T. Brigham. Twelve trays of land shells from Hayti. 

 Mrs. W. a. Bryan. Twelve trays of shells from New York. 

 W. A. Bryan. Cotypes of Tapes philippinarum kupi Bryan from Oahu. 

 Mrs. H. H. Buckman. Pyramidula alternata Say from Au Sable Gorge, New 

 York. 

 H. C. BuRNUP. Five trays of African land shells. 

 Dr. p. p. Calvert. Two species of shells from Costa Rica. 



G. H. Clapp. Gastrocopt'i delicata Pils from Cat Cay, Bahama Islands. 

 W. F. Clapp. Twenty-five trays of land shells. 



J. B. Clark. Forty-eight trays of shells from Florida. 



T. D. a. Cockerell. Two species of land shells. 



Emily Collins Collection. Twenty-eight species of shells. 



Prof. Franco Contreras. Four species of Naiades from Mexico. 



Dr. C. M. Cooke. Eighty-five trays of land shells from Vancouver Island 

 and Hawaiian Islands. 



W. J. Cresson, Jr. Two species of marine shells. 



Dr. Florentino Felippone. Twelve trays of shells from Uruguay. 



J. H. Ferriss. Eighty-four trays of land shells from South Western United 

 States. 



J. H. Ferriss and E. Hand. Vertigo sterkii Pils from near Kern River, CaH- 

 fornia. 



W. J. Fox. Limax flavus L. from Philadelphia. Pennsylvania. 



Friends' Central School. Seven species of marine shells. 



G. M. Greene. Two species of marine shells. 



J. M. Hawley. Two species of land shells from New York. 



Miss Hayes. Argonauta tuberculosa Lam. 



Morgan Hebard. Twenty-eight trays of shells from Florida. 



J. B. Henderson. Ten trays of shells from Cuba and the United States. 



A. A. Hinkley. Seventy-four trays of shells from Guatemala and Mexico. 



A. A. Hinkley and J. H. Ferriss. Eighty-four trays of land shells from Ari- 

 zona. 



C. W. Johnson. Oliva ccerulea Bolt, from New Guinea. 



F. J. Keelby. Two species of shells from Pennsylvania and Florida. 



C. H. Kennedy. Zonitoides arborea Say from Bay Shore, near Baltimore, 

 Maryland, 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Bayard Long. Ninety-three trays of shells from the Eastern United States. 



W. G. Mazyck. Polila rhoadsi Pils. from Williamsburg County. South Carol- 

 ina. 



R. A. McCoNNELL. Four species of Mexican land shells. 



Rev. H. E. Meyer. Fourteen species of land shells. 



J. B. MocKRiDGE. Three marine shells from England and Florida. 



Cl.arence B. Moore. For y two trays of land shells from Florida. 



F. Oldacii. Eliniia virginica Gm. Tulpohocken Creek, near Reading, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



J. M. Ostergard. Two species of marine shells from Oahu. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbry. One hundred and fifty-three trays of shells. 



Purchased. One hundred and fifty-two trays of exotic shells. 



Chas. T. Ramsden. Vaginuhis from Cuba. 



S. N. Rhoads. Seven trays of shells from Guatemala. 



J. Rehn and M. Hebard. Fourteen trays of shells from Southern United 

 States. 



Dr. Emmet Rixford. Epiphragmophora from California. 



C. T. Simpson. Seventy trays of Liguus from Florida. 



Burnett Smith. Twenty-four trays of shells from New York. 



Geo. C. Spence. Five species of exotic shells. 



Dr. V. Sterki. Twenty-nine trays of North American shells. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Twenty-five trays of shells Chiricahau Mts., Arizona. 



Mrs. E. M. Swainson. TurriteUa duplicata Lam. 



E. G. Vanatta. One hundred and six trays of shells. 



Gilbert Van Ingen. One hundred and sixty-eight trays of shells from New 

 York. 



Bryant Walker. Six hundred and forty-six trays of land and fresh water 

 shells. 



Miss Mary E. Walker. Three species of fresh water shells from New York. 



Miss H. N. Wardle. Two species of land shells from Pennsylvania. 



Joseph Willcox. Five marine shells. 



George Willett. Vehdina rubra W. from Forrester Island, Alaska. 



W. P. WooDRiNG. Siiccinea grosvenori Lea from Wolf Point, Montana. 



B. B. Woodward. Ten trays of Pisidium from Europe. 



James Zetek. Forty-nine trays of shells from Panama. 



Other Invertebrates. 



L. S. Adams. One starfish. 



Mrs. W. L. Baker. Balanus galeatus L., upon gorgonians from Osprey, 

 Florida. 



J. B. Clark. One tray of Lingula from Florida. 



R. E. Coker. Balanus from near Key West, Florida. 



Dr. Florentino Felipponb. Three trays of invertebrates from South 

 America. 



Jarvis B. Grubb. One starfish. Cape May, New Jersey. 



Purchased. Nine trays of invertebrates. 



Mrs. Mary Litdwig Suydam. Collection of corals. 



IGNITED States National Museum. Four species of barnacles from Cali- 

 fornia and Florida. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Fossil Invertebrates. 



James B. Clark. Portion of scapula of fossil elephant (Elephas). Near 

 Dawson, Yukon, Alaska. 



G. W. Bassett. Belemnitella americana Mort. from a well at Middletown, 

 New Jersey. 



J. B. Clark. Six species of fossil shells from Florida. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Fourteen fossil insects and two fossil spiders. Florri- 

 sant, Colorado. 



David Dallam. One fossil. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbry. Three species of fossil from Wolcott Creek, New York. 



Fossil Plants 

 Bro. G. Arsine. Two phials of fossil diatoms. Auvergne, France. 



Herbarium. 



Miss Alice A. Albertson. Ten specimens from Nantucket, Massachusetts. 



George W. Bassett. Number of small collections from New Jersey. 



Samuel N. Baxter. Synoplocos pa\iculata, cultivated. 



Walter M. Bennbr. Four specimens from eastern Pennsylvania. 



Rev. T. R. Brendle. Number of specimens from the Perkiomen Valley, 

 Pennsylvania. 



O. H. Brown. Two hundred and twenty-four specimens from Cape May 

 County, New Jersey. 



Elizabeth S. Brown. Collection of Myxomycetes of the late Dr. Amos 

 P. Brown. 



Stewardson Brown. Callitriche anatini from Germantown, Philadelphia. 



Macy Carhart. Gentiana saponaria from Keyport, New Jersey. 



M. Chapman. Ilex opaca from Purmont, New Jersey. 



Mrs. Devereux. Three specimens from Maine, fifty specimens from North 

 Carolina. 



Mrs. Joseph Fox. Firmiana pLatmifoUa in fruit, from McPhersonville, 

 South Carolina. 



C. D. Fretz, M. D. Eighteen specimens from Bucks County, Pennsylvania. 



Mrs. Adele Lewis Grant. 9 species of Miinulus from California. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph. D. 15 species from Hackensack Marshes, New 

 Jersey. 



Arthur N. Leeds. 2 species from eastern Pennsylvania. 



Charles D. Lippincott. Allium tricoccum from Harrisonville, New Jersey. 



S. Lloyd. Lycopodium obscurum from Cold Spring, Cape May County, New 

 Jersey. 



Bayard Long. 36 specimens from New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware. 



Joseph R. Mumbauer. Viola canadensis and V. cucuUata from Berks County, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Alexander MacElwee. 14 plants from New Jersey. 



Rev. J. P. Otis. Rumex nuxicanus and Vernonia glauca from New Castle 

 County, Delaware. 



T. Chalkley Palmer. Centaurium pulchpllum from Chester County, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Harold W. Pretz. 242 specimens, chiefly from Lehigh County, Pennsylvania. 




1919.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Miss Alice L. Smith. Herbarium of the late Benjamin H. Smith. 

 WiTMER Stone. Collection of flowering plants and ferns from Cape May, 

 New Jersey. 1002 sheets of plants collected in the Chiricahua Mts., Arizona. 

 Joseph Stakes. Veronica tournefontii from Moorestown, New Jersey. 

 H. W. Trudell. Solidago rigida from Berks County, Pennsylvania. 

 S. S. Van Pelt. 2 specimens of local plants 

 Morgan Hebard. 24 specimens from California. 

 New York Botanical Garden. 249 specimens. In exchange. 

 United States National Museum. 16 specimens. In exchange. - 

 Purchased. 1215 plants from North America. Collected by Bayard Long. 



Minerals. 

 Bro. G. Arsine. Lava with maize impressions. La Soledad, near Morelia, 

 Michoacan, Mexico. 

 J. H. Drosser. Wulfenite crystals. Rodeo, New Mexico. 

 Samuel G. Gordon. Sixty-eight specimens of minerals from Pennsylvania. 

 Thomas Harvey. Collection of 3000 Pennsylvania minerals. 

 Bently R. Morrison. Collection of minerals, French Creek, Pennsylvania. 

 Frederick Pierce. Collection of minerals, Boothwyn, Pennsylvania. 

 W. L. Stevenson. Collection of minerals made by the late W. G. Stevenson. 

 Mrs. Mary Ludwig Suydam. Collection of minerals. 

 H. F. Zerger. Moss agate, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. 



Ethnology and Archeology. 

 Miss Virginia Hartshorne. Mummy head and mummy shawl. Egypt. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Type collection made by Mr. Moore in his early 

 researches of artifacts from the shell-heaps of Florida. 



Physical Apparatus. 

 Miss Elizabeth S. Brown. Three microscopes, objectives, accessories and 

 miscropic slides, formerly the property of the late Dr. A. P. Brown. 

 Dr. Herman Burgin. Contact goniometer. 




324 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1919. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 



italic numerals. 



Ablennes hians 6 



Abramis crysoleucas 293, 299 



Acantharchus pornotis 295 



Acicula 165 



eburnea 165 



Acipenser sturio 293 



Actinia canadensis 174 



Af zelia cassioides 264, 265 



pectinata 264, 265 



p. peninsularis 264, 266 



Agalinis aphylla 275, 283 



cor3Tnbosa 278 



decemloba 276, 284 



delicatiila 279 



divaricata 277, 286 



erecta : 276, 284 



fasciculata 273, 279 



filicaulis 277, 287 



filifolia.... 274, 280 



gattingeri 276, 285 



georgiana 274, 280 



harperi 273, 279 



holmiana 275, 281 



keyensis 275, 282 



laxa 274, 281 



linifolia 272, 277 



microphvlla 283 



obtusifoiia 284 



oligophylla 275, 283 



palustris 272, 278 



perennis 277 



pinetorum 273, 279 



pulchella 274, 280 



purpurea 273, 278 



setacea 275, 282 



spiciflora 273,277 



stenophylla 275, 281 



tenella 276,284 



tenuifolia 276, 285 



t. leucanthera 276, 286 



t. macrophvlla 276, 286 



t. polyphylla 277, 286 



virgata 273, 278 



Ageneiosus porphyreus 129 



Alectrion neogenensis 29 



Alutera schoepfii 297 



Ambloplites rupestris 295, 299 



Ameiurus catus 293 



natalis .-.. 293 



nebulosus 293, 299 



Amphianthus pusillus 244 



Anachis anomala 33 



communis carolinensis 34 



styliola obsoleta 30 



sumterensis 32 



Anastoechus barbatus 179 



Anchovia brownii 293 



Ancylus lacustris 167 



Angelonia angustifolia 258 



salicariaef olia 257 



Anguilla rostrata 293, 299 



Anisotamia 180 



Anonymos cassioides 264, 265 



erecta 284 



setacea 282 



umbrosa 248 



Antirrhinum canadense 2S8 



elatine 259 



linaria 258 



Aochletus 172 



albopilosup 173 



nigropilosus 174 



Apeltes quadracus 294 



Aphredoderus sayanus 295 



Arion lineatus 158 



Arthropeas jonesi 176 



Astroscopus guttatus 298 



Aureolaria dispersa 267, 271 



flava 268, 271 



f. reticulata 268, 272 



laevigata 268, 272 



levigata 272 



microcarpa 267, 269 



patula 267, 269, 271 



pectinata 267, 269 



p. floridana 267, 269 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



325 



pedicularia 266, 268 



p. austromontana 267, 268 



p. carolinensis 266, 268 



reticulata 272 



villosa 266, 269 



virginica 267, 269, 270 



Auricula mysosotis 167 



Averellia (Trichodiscina) hinklej^i 217 



Bairdiella chrysura 296 



Balistes carolinensis 296 



forcipatus 140 



Bartramia pulchella 253 



Bartsia coccinea 290 



Belone argalus 135 



belone 2 



platyura 2 



trachura 2 



Belonostomus 210 



comptoni 210 



Bithynia 168 



jaculator 168 



meridionalis 168 



Boleichthys fusiformis 295 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi.. .295, 300 



Bombylius facialis 187 



Brachygyne macrophylla 26 J^ 



Brachypodella subtilis pulchella.... 218 



Bramia monnieri 243 



Brannerion 209 



Buchnera americana 287, 288 



angustifolia 288 



elongata 288 



e. obtusa 288 



levicaulis 288 



Bulimulus radiatus 164 



Caecum flemingi 40 



Calamopleurus 209 



vestitus 209 



Calistachya alba 260 



Callicera johnsoni 190 



montensis 190 



Callyodon acutus 147 



croicensis 139 



emblematicus 148 



margarita lJi8 



punctulatus 139 



Cancellaria tabulata 23 



Cantareus naticoides 161 



Canthidermis sobaco 140 



Capraria bifiora 233 



gratioloides 21,5 



multifida 249 



Caranx crysos 295 



hippos 295 



Castilleja coccinea 290 



fissifolia 289 



Catostomus commersonii 299 



n igricans 299 



Centropristis striatus 300 



Chaetodipterus faber 296 



Chelone cuthbertii 255 



digitalis 252 



glabra 255 



latifolia 256 



lyonii 255, 256 



major 256 



pentstemon 250, 252 



Chilomycterus atinga 297 



schoepfi 297 



Chloroscombrus chrysurus 147 



Chriodorus atherinoides 6 



Chrysopilus dilatus .• 177 



nudus 176 



Clausilia bidens 165 



charlotia 165 



cinerea 165 



crenulata 165 



heterostropha 166 



macluriana 166 



marceUa 166 



polita 166 



Cochlicella meridionalis 164 



tenuis 164 



turricula 164 



ventrosa 164 



Cochlicopa lubrica 165 



Collinsia verna 257 



Conradia fuchsioides 263 



Cottus gracilis 300 



Crenea 165 



vitrea 165 



Cyclas amnica 169 



vitrea 169 



Cyclopium mariae 125 



Cyclopterus lumpus 298 



Cyclostoma affinis 169 



elegans 169 



obtusum 169 



Cynoscion nebulosus 296 



regalis 296 



Cyprinodon mydus 152 



variegatus 294 



Cyprinus carpio 293 



Cypselurus agoo 15 



bahiensis 15 



bicolor 14 



calif ornicus 15 



exsiliens 10 



furcatus llf. 



gibbifrons 15 



heterurus 14 



hyperistius 12 



lineatus 15 



lutkeni 14, 146 



nigricans 14 



polyethmus 10 



quindecimradiatus 15 



rondeleti 10 



rufipinnis 14 



simus 15 



speculiger 14 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cypselus vinciguerrse 12 



Cyrenoidea guatemalensis 221 



Dalmannia blaisdelli 190 



Dasistoma aurea 264 



macrophylla 264 



Dasyatissay 300 



Dasystoma bignoniiflora '272 



brachycarpa 270 



dispersa 271 



patula 271 



pubescens 270 



tubulosa 26S 



Decapterus punetatus 294 



Dermatogenys viviparus 10 



Donax cuneola 49 



mediamericana 222 



Dorosoma cepedianum 293 



Drillia precursor 21 



sumterensis 22 



tricatenaria 19 



Drymaeus dombeyanus 218 



d. ornatus 218 



Eolimus 182 



laniger 182 



yosemite 183 



Ecthypus limbatus 188 



Eleotris amblyopsis 132 



perniger 142 



Enchelycore nigrocastaneus 133 



Enneacanthus gloriosus 295 



Ennelichthys 208 



derbyi 208 



Epacmus 181 



modestus 181 



pallidus 181 



Epibates 182 



Epitonium muldrowi 36 



Ericymba buccata 299 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus 293 



Erinus procumbens 2S7 



Esox americanus 294, 299 



tridecemlineatus 294, 299 



Etrumeus sadina 293 



Euconulus f ulvus alaskensis 202 



Eulamia milberti 292 



platyodon 146 



(Leiostraca) retiuscula 39 



Eulepidorhamphus 7 



Euleptorhamphus velox 10 



Euparhyphus 171 



quadrimaculatus 172 



Eupera yucatanensis minima 222 



Eustachya alba 260 



Evolantia microptera 10 



Exocoetus chilensis 10 



lutkeni IJj. 



scylla lit- 



volitans 10 



Exoglossum maxillingua 299 



Exoprosopa fumosa 177 



(Exoptata) ingens 178 



jonesi 178 



Ferrussacia 165 



gronoviana 165 



sayea 165 



Fistularia tabacaria 147 



Fodiator acutus 10 



Fundulus diaphanus 294,299 



grandis 151 



heteroclitus macrolepidotus 



294, 300 



lucise 294 



majalis 294, 300 



Gerardia afzelia 265 



aphylla 28S 



a. filicaulis v.. 287 



a. grandiflora 28S 



auriculata 287 



besseyana 286 



cuneifolia 236 



decemloba 28Jt^ 



divaricata 286 > 



fasciculata 279 



filifolia 280 



f. gatesii 282 



flammea 263 



flava 271 



gattingeri 285 



georgiana 280 



holmiana 281 



leucanthera 286 



levigata 272 



linifolia 277 



maritima grandiflora 277 



m. major 277 



mcttaneri 286 



m. clausa 286 



m. nuda .287 



pedic'ularia 268 



p. pectinata 269 



phmkenetii 282 



p. mieroi)hylla .^ 283 



polyphylki 286 



purpurea 278 



quercif olia 271 



setacea parvifolia 28Jj. 



spidflora 277 



tenuifolia 285 



t. filiformis 285 



t. leptophylla 285 



t. macrophylla 286 



Geron. 183 



digitaria 184 



d. robusta 185 



nivea 185 



Globifera umbrosa 248 



Gobiesox cerasinus 143, 149 



strumosus 300 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



327 



Gobiosoma bosc 300 



Gratiola acuminata 236 



anagallidea 246 



aurea 240 



caroliniensis 242 



dilatata 246 



dubia 245 



floridana 239, 241 



georgiana 238, 239, 240 



megalocarpa 24I, 242 



micrantha 234, 2,41 



neglecta 239, 241 



officinalis 238 



pilosa 238, 239 



p. epilis 238, 239 



quadridentata 24O 



ramosa 238, 240 



sphajrocarpa 241 



subulata 242 



tetragona 245 



virginiana 239, 241 



viscidula 238, 240 



viscosa 240 



Guppya Jalisco 216 



elegantula 215 



Harengula pensacola; 151 



Helicella albella 162 



algira 162 



elegans 162 



conica 162 



ericetorum 163 



fasciata 163 



ferruginea 163 



hispida 163 



hispidula 163 



mamillata 162 



nitida... 163 



prevostiana 163 



radiatus 162 



rupestris 162 



solarium 162 



submaritima 163 



variabilis 163 



varians 162 



Helic'gona cornea 161 



lapicida 161 



Helicodonta obvoluta 161 



Helicogena candidissima 160 



imperfecta 161 



libellula 161 



nemoralis 160 



nicoeensis 161 



olivacea 161 



pomatia 160 



splendida 160 



Helix aspersa 161 



rugulosa 161 



vermiculata 161 



Hemianthus glomeratus 248, 249 



micranthemoides 248 



micranthus 248 



Hemiexoccetus caudimaculatus 10 



Hemirhamphus affinis 8 



balao 152 



brasiliensis 7, 152 



far 7 



limbatus 8 



quoyi 8 



Herpestis rotundifolia 244 



Heterostylum vierecki 186 



Hippocampus hudsonius 294 



punctulatus 146 



Hybognathus nuchalis regius 293 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis 299 



Hydro tida caroliniana 243 



Hygromia cinctella 161 



folliculata..... 162 



Hyporhamphus intermedins 7 



kurumeus 7 



neglectus 6 



pacificus 6 



roberti 7, 1.52 



unifasciatus 6 



Hypsoblennius hentz 300 



Ilysanthes dubia 245 



grandiflora 245, 247 



inaequalis 245, 246 



refracta 245,247 



riparia 245 



saxicola 245,246 



Jaminia 166 



edentula 166 



granum '. 166 



heterostropha 167 



marginata 166 



niso '. 167 



muscorum 166 



quinquelamellata 167 



secale 166 



septemdentata 167 



sulculata 166 



tridens 166 



trilamillata 167 



Jenkinsia stolifera 151 



Kickxia elatine 259 



spuria 2.59 



Lagocephalus lae vigatus 297 



Leachia 169 



cornea 169 



lineolata 169 



viridescens 169 



vitrea 169 



Leiostdmus xanthurus 296, 300 



Lepomis auritus 299 



Leptandra all)a 260 



villosa.. 260 



Leptecheneis naucrates 298 



Leptomydas brachyrhynchus 189 



pantherinus 188 



sponsor 188 




328 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Leucospora multifida 249 



Limax agrestis 159 



antiquorum 158 



carinatus 159 



gagates 158 



lineolatus 159 



marginatus 159 



variegatus 159 



Linaria canadensis 258 



floridana 258 



linaria 258, 259 



texana 258, 259 



vulgaris 259 



Lindernia attenuata 245 



dilatata 246 



grandifiora 247 



refracta 247 



saxicola 246 



Liotia (Arene) major 42 



Lordotus divisus 186 



Lymnea auricula 167 



labrosa 167 



leachiana 167 



minuta 167 



pereger 167 



Lysimachia monnieri 2Ji3 



Macoma carolinensis. 50 



Macranthera lecontei 263 



Matourea nigrescens 236 



Mecardonia acuminata 236 



a. brevifolia... 236, 237 



a. peninsularis 236, 237 



ovata 235 



procumbens 236. 237 



tenuis 236, 238 



Megalops atlanticus 293 



Melampyrum americanum 291 



cristatum 291 



latifolium 291 



lineare 291 



1. latifolium 291 



Melanella bartschi 37 



magnoliana 38 



Melichthys piceus 149 



Menidia beryllina 300 



menidia notata 294, 300 



Menticirrhus americanus 296 



saxatilis 296 



Mermiria 55, 56 



alacris 65, 81, 93 



belfragii 56, 72 



bivittata 65, 88, 93, 95, 99, 



102, 103, 104, 110, 111, 112, 116 



intertexta.... 65, 88, 93, 94, 95 



maculipennis macolungi....65, 69, 



103, 104, 106, 107, 109, 111, 112, 

 113, 115, 116 



m. maculipennis .65, 88, 95, 99, 

 102, 103, 104, 106-116 



neo-mexicana 64, 72 



rostrata 81 



texana 64, 65, 69, 106, 112 



vigilans 81, 93, 95 



Merodon equestris var. validus 190 



validus 190 



Mesogonistius chsetodon 295 



Micranthemum emarginatum 248 



nuttallii glomeratum 2Ji8 



orbiculatum 248 



Micranthera flammea 263 



Microdon baliopterus 189 



Micro pogon undulatus 296, 300 



Micropterus dolomieu 299 



salmoides 295, 299 



Mimulus alatus 234, 235 



minthodes 234, 235 



ringens 234, 235 



Mitra dalli 25 



Mitromorpha mitrodita 26 



Mixogaster breviventris 190 



Mola mola 297 



Mollienisia latipinna 152 



Monniera amplexicaulis 243 



chamtedryoides peduncularis.. 237 



crenulata 243 



cuneifolia 2Ji3 



rotundifolia 242 



Morone americana 295 



Mugil curema 153, 294 



Mulinia magnoliana 52 



Mura>na miliaris 134 



Musca vibrans 192 



Mycetaulus hornigi 193 



Myodina 191 



Myoxocephalus seneus 298 



Neorondania scutellata 174 



Neritilia. ._ 219 



succinea guatemalensis 220 



Notropis atherinoides 299 



cornutus 299 



hudsonius amarus 293 



whipplii analostanus 299 



Obolaria caroliniana ' 243 



Omegasyrphus baliopterus 189 



Opomala bivittata 93. /// 



neo-mexicana 72 



Orbitina 165 



incomparabilis 165 



trunratella 165 



Oreohelix cooperi apiarium 198 



Oris ferrussaci 159 



Orthopristis chrysopterus 296, 300 



Otophylla auriculata 287 



michauxii 287 



Pandora (Clidiophora) prodromos 44 



trilineata 45, 46 



(Clidio])hora) tuomeyi 45 



Papagoa arizonensis 65 




1919. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



329 



Paralichthys dentatus 298, 300 



ParexoccEtuF brachypterus 10 



mesogastei' 10 



Paulovvnia tonientosa 233 



Pedicularis canadensis 290, 291 



lanceolata 290 



palustris 290 



Pegea 166 



carnea 1 66 



Penstemon australis 251, 254 



calycosus 251, 253 



canescens 251, 254 



digitalis 251, 252 



dissectus 250, 251 



laevigatas 263 



1. canescens 254 



multiflorus 250, 252 



pentstemon 251, 252 



pubescens mult'florus £-52 



smallii 251, 253 



tenuiflorus 251, 255 



Perca flavescens 295, 299 



Petromyzon marinus 292 



Phos sloani 27 



Phthiria psi 185 



Physa solidissima 219 



Phyza fontinalis 167 



hypnorum 167 



Pimephales notatus 299 



Pisidium abditum 204 



Plagioscion monacanthus 131 



Planorbis carinatus 168 



cristatus 168 



marginatus 168 



nitidus 168 



reticulatus 168 



spirorbis 168 



vortex 168 



Planorbula obstructa 219 



Platybelone 2 



Pleurotoma tricatenaria 19 



Poecilichthys flabeliaris 300 



Pogonias cromis 296 



Polita binneyana 202 



chersinella 203 



Pollachius virens 298 



Pomatomus saltatrix 295 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus 293 



Pomotis gibbosus 295 



Pomoxis sparoides... 295 



Poronotus triacanthus 295, 300 



Potamorrhaphis guianensis 6 



Prionotus evolans strigatus.. 298 



Pseudohyalina maya 216 



opal 216 



Pseudomonacanthus amphioxj-s . . 141 



Pseudosubulina marten? Jana 314 



Psila angustata 193 



Punctum californicum 202 



Pyramidella carinata 167 



gracilis 167 



Pyramidula cronkhitei 202 



Raja erinacea 293 



Ranapalus eisenii 242 



rotundifolius 242 



Rhinanthus virginicus 269 



Rhinichthys atronasus 299, 300 



cataractffi 299 



Rhinoptera bonasus 293 



Rhombochirus osteochir 154 



Rivellia cognata 191 



Roccus lineatus 295 



Rumina 164 



decollata 164 



Russelia juncea 257 



sarmentosa 257 



Salasiella guatemalensis 213 



hinkleyi 212 



Salmo fario 29S 



formosanus 122 



Salvelinus fontinalis 293, 298 



Sarda sarda 294 



Saraphda 165 



bidentata 165 



plejd'elia 165 



tridentata 165 



unidentata 165 



uniplicata 165 



Schasicheila hinkleyi 221 



Schilbeodes insignis 299 



Schwalbea americana 289 



australis 289 



Sciaenops ocellatus 296 



Scomber colias 294 



scombrus 294 



Scomberesox saurus 6 



Scomberomorus maculatus 294, 300 



Scoparia dulcis 234 



grandiflora 234 



Scrophularia leporella 257 



marilandica 256 



nodosa 256, 257 



serrulata 257 



Seioptera 191 



albipes 192 



colon 192 



vibrans 192 



Selene vomer 295 



Semotilus atromaculatus 299 



buUaris 299 



Seoptera 191 



Seriola zonata 294, 300 



Seymeria heterophyla 26-5 



jacksoni 265 



macrophylla 264 



pectinata 265 



tenuifolia 265 



Silvius jonesi 175 



Sopronanthe hispida 242 



Sparisoma hoplomystax 138 



niphobles 150 



Spheroides marmoratus 142 



Sphyrna zygjena 293 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



IDec, 



Spiraxis livingstonensis 213 



longior 214 



Spisula (Hemimactra?) magnoli- 



ana 52 



Spogostylum vierecki 180 



Stenotomus chrysops 300 



Stephanolepis hispidus 297 



Striatura milium pugetensis 203 



Strigilla eutykta 47 



Strombiformis dalli 39 



Strongylura 2 



acus 5, 294 



anostomella 5 



coromandelica 5 



crocodila 5 



exile 3 



leiura 5 



leiuroides 5 



marina 5, 294, 300 



notata 3, 152 



peruana 3 



raphidoma 5 



scapulare 3 



strongylura 3 



timucu 3, 136 



Succinea elegans 160 



major 160 



panamensis 218 



Surcula (Pleurotoma) tricatenaria 19 



Syngnathus fuscus 294, 300 



mackayi •. 146 



Tautogolabrui? adspersus 296 



Testacella episcia 160 



Testacellus bisulcatus 159 



Theba 163 



carthusiana 164 



carthus'anella 164 



cemenelea 164 



charpentiera 164 



conspurcata 164 



lucostoma 164 



meridionalis 164 



pisana 163 



pyramidata 164 



rubella 164 



Thysanophora ingersolli 202 



rhoadsi 217 



Tittmannia monticola 2Jfl 



Trachinotus carolinus 295 



Trichiurus lepturus .*..... 294 



Turritella duplinensis 41 



Tylosurus 2 



Urosalpinx phriknos 35 



Umbra pygmaea 294 



Umbrina coroides 137 



Upeneus phillipsi 296 



Vaginulus moreleti 219 



Vallonia... 169 



rosalia 169 



Valvata minuta 168 



planorbis 168 



Vediantius 165 



eristalius 165 



Verbascum blattaria 249, 250 



lychnitis 250 



thapsus 249, 250 



virgatum.... 249, 250 



Veronica agrestis 260, 262 



americana 261, 262 



arvensis .!. 261, 262 



glandifera 261,263 



hederaefolia 260 



officinalis 260-262 



peregrina 261, 262 



p. xalapensis 261, 262 



persica 261, 262 



serpyllifolia 261, 262 



virginica .- 259, 260 



xalapensis 262 



Veronicastrum album 260 



virginicum 260 



Vertigo modesta parietalis 204 



Vinotifer 210 



Vitrina alaskana 204 



Xenentodon cancila 6 



Xenodisc ula venezuelensis 206 



Zabrachia magnicornis 171 



Zenarchopterus dispar 9 



hendersoni 8 



philippinus 9 



Zonitoides arborea 202 




1919.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELHPIA. 



331 



GENERAL INDEX. 



1919 



Additions to the IVIuseum, 317. 



Bender, Charles J. Announcement of 

 death of, 54. 



Berry, S. StiDman. MoUusca of Gla- 

 cier National Park, Montana (Plates 

 IX, X), 195. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 312. 



Blanchard, Harriet. Announcement 

 of death of, 207. 



Blanchard, Raphael. Announcement 

 of death of, 54. 



Botanical Section, report of, 314. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of the Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 312. 



Bullock, David Jayne. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 121. 



Caziot, E. SynonjTnic study on the 

 moUusks of the Departement des 

 Alpes-Maritimes mentioned by An- 

 toine Risso, with notes on their 

 classification, 156. 



Committees for 1920, 316. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 301. 



Council for 1920, 315. 



Cresson, Ezra T., Jr. Dipterological 

 notes and descriptions, 171. Report 

 of the Entomological Section, 313. 



Cresson, George B. Announcement 

 of death of, 207. 



Cunningham, Francis J. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 54. 



Curators, report of, 306. 



Deaths announced, 54, 121, 207. 



Eckfeldt, John W. Report of the 

 Botanical Section, 314. 



Elections in 1920, 317. 



Entomological Section, report of, 313. 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on synen- 

 tognathous fishes, 2. A new siluroid 

 fish of the genus Cyclopium from 

 Colombia (Plate VIII), 125. Notes 

 on tropical American fishes, 128. 

 Notes on New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 

 and Virginia fishes, 292. 



Gardner, Julia A., and T. H. Aldrich • 

 Mollusca of the Upper Miocene of 

 South Carolina (Plates I-IV), 17. 



Godman, Frederick D. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 121. 



Harrison, George L., Jr. Elected a 

 member of the Council, 16. 



Harrison, Thomas Skelton. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 207. 



Jordan, David Starr. New genera of 

 fossil fishes from Brazil, 208. 



Jordan, David Starr, and Masamitsu 

 Oshima. Salmo formosanus, a new 

 trout from the mountain streams of 

 Formosa, 122. 



Keelev, F. J. Report of Curator of 

 the William S. Vaux Collections, 312. 

 Report of Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 314. 



Librarian, report of, 302. 



Library Staff, 316. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 314. 



Moore, J. Percy. Report of the Cor- 

 responding Secretarv, 301. 



Museum Staff, 316. 



Nolan, Edward J. Report of Record- 

 ing Secretary, 300. Report of the 

 Librarian, 302. 



Officers, Councillors, and Committee 

 on Accounts, 315. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 314. 



Pennell, Francis W. Scrophulariaceise 

 of the southeastern United States, 

 224. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Oyster farms of 

 Delaware Bay, 54. A peculiar 

 Venezuelan land snail, 206. Mol- 

 lusca from Central America and 

 Mexico (Plate XI), 212. 



Recording Secretar}^ report of, 300. 



Rehn, James A. G. A study of the 

 orthopterous genus Mermiria Stal 

 (Plates V-VII), 54, 55. 



Report of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 312. 



Report of the Botanical Section, 314. 




332 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary, 

 301. 



Report of the Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux Collections, 312. 



Report of the Curators, 306. 



Report of the Entomological Section, 

 313. 



Report of the Librarian, 302. 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 314. 



Report of the Ornithological Section, 

 314. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 300. 



Stevenson, William C, Jr. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 207. 



Stone, Witmer. Report of the Cura- 

 tors, 306. Report of the Ornitho- 

 logical Section, 314. 



Williams, Roswell C., Jr. Elected a 

 member of Council, 16. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA.. 1919 



PLATE XI. 



PILSBRY: MOLLUSC A FROM CENTRAL AMERICA AND MEXICO. 







MBL WHUl LIBKAKY 



liJH IflSK K 




..**• 





•l 






