



PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LXXIl 



1920 



philadelphia: 

 The academy of Natural Sciences 



1921 




The Academy op Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



March 11, 1921. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1920 were 

 mailed as follows: 



Pages 1-32 June 17, 1920. 



33-64 June 18, 1920. 



65-80 June 23, 1920. 



81-135 July 12, 1920. 



" 136-198 October 6, 1920. 



" 199-214 November 4, 1920. 



" 215-278 November 20, 1920. 



" 279-293 November 23, 1920. 



" 294-340 January 7, 1921. 



" 341-388 March 3, 1921. 



" 389-402 March 11, 1921. 



WiLLiAN J. Fox, Editor 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henry A, Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Milton J. Greenman, M.D. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: William J. Fox. 




CONTENTS 



For Announcements, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Crawley, Howard. Statistical Observations on the Texas 



Fever Parasite 331 



Fowler, Henry W. Description of a New Cyprinoid Fish 

 (Notropis stonei) with Notes on other Fishes obtained 



in the tjnited States 385 



Gordon, Samuel G. Ordovician Basalts and Quartz Diabases 



in Lebanon County, Pennsylvania 354 



Hebard, Morgan. Studies in Malayan, Papuan, and Aus- 

 tralian Mantidae 14 



American Dermaptera of the Museum National d'His- 



toire Naturelle, Paris, France 337 



Keeley, F. J. Additional Notes on the Deal Meteorite 358 



Monks, Sarah P. Notes on Arachnoidiscus 207 



OsHiMA, Masamitsu. Notes on the Freshwater Fishes of For- 

 mosa, with Descriptions of New Genera and Species. . . 120 



Two New Cyprinoid Fishes from Formosa 189 



Pennell, Francis W. Scrophulariaceae of Colombia — 1 136 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Costa Rican Land and Freshwater Mol- 



lusks 2 



Mollusks from Lake Chapala, State of Jalisco, and Vicinity 192 



Mollusca from Central America and Mexico 195 



Marine Mollusks of Hawaii, VIII-XIII 296 



A Colombian PupiUid Snail 329 



Marine Mollusks of Hawaii, XIV, XV 360 



Rehn, James A. G. Records and Descriptions of BrazlUan 



Orthoptera 214 



Vanatta, E. G. New Land Shells 203 



Wardle, H. Newell. Iron Ore Artifacts from Alabama 209 



Wherry, Edgar T. Observations on the Soil Acidity of Eri- 

 caceae and associated Plants in the Middle Atlantic 



States 84 



Correlation between Vegetation and Soil Acidity in South- 

 ern New Jersey 113 



56699 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1920 



January 20. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Seventy-two persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: Rebecca 

 Gibson, Annabelle E. Richards, D. Murray Cheston, William Osier, 

 Horatio C. Wood, and Edwin S. Dixon. 



Mr. James A. G. Rehn made a communication entitled: "The 

 Work of the Hebard-Academy Expedition of 1919 in Nevada and 

 California." (No abstract.) 



The Council reported the appointment by the President of the 

 following committees: On Policy— Messrs. E. G. Conklin, R. A. F. 

 Penrose, Milton J. Greenman, J. Percy Moore, George Vaux, Jr., 

 George E. de Schweinitz, Effingham B. Morris, and George L. 

 Harrison, Jr. . On the Hayden Memorial Aw^\rd — Messrs. R. A. 

 F. Penrose, Chairman, Edgar T. Wherry, Charles D. Walcott, and 

 John Mason Clark. 



William W. Matos, J. E. B. Buckenham, David E. Harrower, 

 Harry W. Trudell, Sabin W. Colton, Jr., Hamilton Bradshaw, 

 Childs Frick, and Arthur R. Spencer were elected Members. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



COSTA RICAN LAND AND FRESHWATER MOLLUSKS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The moUusks enumerated below were collected by Dr. Philip P. 

 Calvert and Mrs. (Amelia S.) Calvert in the year of their residence 

 in Costa Rica, from May, 1909, to May, 1910.' As their chief 

 object was to study life histories and transformations of tropical 

 dragonflies, other material was taken only when encountered in 

 the course of this pursuit. 



Much of their field work was done in districts where Prof. Paul 

 Biolley^ and H. Pittier had collected shells, yet some eight species 

 new to Costa Rica were found, five of them new to science. This 

 large proportion, in a total of 28 species taken, is evidence that our 

 knowledge of the fauna is still very incomplete, though as von 

 Martens remarks, it is "one of the best known within Central Amer- 

 ica." 



Biolley has carefully recorded the elevation of localities where 

 he collected shells, and some additions to this subject are now made; 

 but on tabulating the data it appears that so many species are known 

 from few localities, or but one, that conclusions as to zonal dis- 

 tribution would be too crude to have value. Some species have a 

 wide vertical range; the apparent restriction of others in the same 

 districts may probably be due to deficient collecting. 



Costa Rica is known as farthest north for a number of character- 

 istically South American genera, such as Lahyrinthus, Solaropsis 

 and Marisa. The Brazilian genus Uncancylus, now reported, is 

 an interesting addition to this series. 



^ Calvert, Amelia S. and Philip P. A Year of Costa Rican Natural History 

 New York. The Macmillan Company, 1917. Besides details as to the locali- 

 ties where collecting was done, this interesting book contains a map and a bib- 

 liography of Costa Rican natural history, and related subjects. 



2 B'oiley, P. Moluscos terrestes y fluviatiles de la meseta central de Costa 

 Rica. San Jose. Tipografia Nacional, 1897. Fifty-nine species are listed, 

 with localities and comments. 



The material collected by Biolley and Pittier was determined and the new 

 forms described by Professor E. von Martens in his fine volume on land and fresh- 

 water mollusks in the Biologia Centrali-Americana, 1890-1901. 




1920. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



CYCLOPHORIDiE. 

 Aperostoma dysoni (Pfr.) 



Bonnefil Farm, Rio Surubres, 700 ft. Oct. 20, 1909. 



HELICINID^ 

 Helicina funcki Angas. 



Guapiles, 980 ft. Nov. 18, 1909. 



Helicina deppeana parvidens n. subsp. 



Juan Vifias, farther waterfall, 3300 ft.; also on the road to Rio 

 Reventazon, 3000 ft. Type, No. 105286, A. N. &. P. 



The shell resembles H. deppeana v. Martens, of eastern Mexico, 

 except that there is only a very low, rather wide prominence at the 

 junction of the columella and basal lip, with no appearance of a 

 notch below it. 



Alt. 10, diam. 13.3 mm. 



OLEACINIDiE. 

 Streptostyla viridula Angas. 



Near Juan Vinas, on road to Rio Reventazon, between 2500 and 

 3000 ft. July 23, 1909. 



ZONITIDiE. 

 Guppya calverti n. sp. Fig. 1, 



Stream near the railroad west of Juan Vifias, 3300 ft. Type No. 

 105266, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is perforate, pyramidal, fragile, pale yellow. The apex 

 is obtuse, outlines of the spire straight; periphery acutely keeled; 

 base convex. The surface is smooth and glossy. The whorls are 

 convex, the last very narrowly concave on both sides of the thin 

 median keel, the concavity forming a narrow impressed margin 

 above the last coil of the suture. The base is impressed around the 

 narrow perforation. The aperture is rhombic, acutely angular at 

 the termination of the peripheral keel. Columella is short, sub- 

 vertical, the columellar margin reflexed in a triangular plate half 

 covering the perforation. 



Alt. 2.5, diam. 3 mm.; 5 whorls. 



This species is very distinct by its acute peripheral keel. The 

 only form of the region approaching it is the much largei G. angasi 

 Tryon,^ which differs in proportions. 



^ Stenopus guildingi Angas, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1879, p. 284, not of Bland, 1865. 

 Renamed Hyalinia (Stenopus) angasi Tryon, Manual of Conchology (2) II, 

 1886, p. 182; and again, Guppya angasi v. Martens, Biologia Centrali- 

 Americana, Moll., 1892, p. 120. 




4 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Guppya costaricana n. sp. Fig. 2. 



Alajuela, 3200 ft. Type No. 105285, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is minutely perforate, globosely conic, very fragile, light 

 yellow; outlines of the spire are perceptibly concave, the periphery 

 bluntly carinate. The surface is very glossy, marked with weak 

 growth-wrinkles, and under the microscope a very fine, close, ver- 

 tical striation and minute spiral lines almost equally close are seen 

 on the second to fourth whorls, very weak on the fourth. The 

 apex is rather acute. The whorls are strongly convex; base very 

 convex, impressed around the oblique perforation. The aperture 

 is broadly lunate. Columellar margin is dilated upward. 



Alt. 5, diam. 6.1 mm.; 5f whorls. 



The pedal grooves are well-marked, rising at the tail. There 

 is a wedge-shaped caudal pore, a short, blunt horn above it. The 

 top of the tail is rounded. Sole narrow, tripartite. 



Fig. 1. Guppya calverti. Fig. 2. Guppya costaricana. Fig. 3. Guppya c. elatior. 



This species is closely related to G. trochulina (Morel.), of which 

 Helix selenkai Pfr. has been shown to be a synonym.'' It differs 

 by the slightly concave outlines of the spire, the greater convexity 

 of the individual whorls, the higher first whorl and the microscopic 

 sculpture, the vertical striae being much more distinct and the 

 spirals closer. In topotypes of selenkai from Dr. Berendt, the 

 original collector, the spirals are far more widely spaced (as noted 

 by von Martens also for a paratype of trochulina) , and they continue 

 on the last whorl, while the vertical striation is so weak that it has 

 not been noticed by any of the authors who have treated of trochu- 

 lina or selenkai. 



The Canal Zone species of this group, Guppya hrowni Pils., has 

 the straight contour of trochulina, but it differs by the very distinct 

 and beautiful microscopic sculpture. 



^ BlOLOGIA, p. 120. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



Guppya costaricana elatior n. subsp. Fig. 3. 



Brook near the Rio Reventazon, Juan Vinas, at 2500 ft. Type 

 No. 105276, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is smaller than costaricana but with nearly the same 

 number of whorls; more elevated, with the peripheral carina stronger; 

 outlines of the spire more concave. 



Alt. 4, diam. 4 mm.; 5^ whorls. 



Zonitoides hoSmanni (v. Martens). 



Bank of Rio Reventazon, Cachi. Mar. 10, 1910. 3300 ft. 



ACHATINID^. 

 Subulina octona (Bmg.) 



Near town of Turrialba, 2200 ft. 



Opeas beckianum (Pfr.) 



Banana River, 30 ft. Nov. 10, 1910. 



BULIMULID.E. 

 Oxystyla princeps (Brod.) 



Forest, Guacimo. 



Oxystyla ferussaci tricincta (v. Martens). 



Bonnefil Farm, Rio Surubres, 700 ft. 

 Drymaeus sulphureus (Pfr.) 



Near Guapiles, 980 ft.; Bonnefil Farm, Rio Surubres, 700 ft., on 

 HeUconia, Oct. 16-21, 1909; Reventazon valley near Juan Vinas, 

 2500 ft., in a Bromeliad. Also on the road to Rio Reventazon at 

 3000 ft. 



Calvert notes that the living animal, from the last locality, has 

 the foot greenish-blue with whitish edges, the tentacles greenish- 

 brown. Those from the first three localities have the rather short 

 form of var. citroneUus (Angas) ; the fourth is a longer shell. 



Dr]miaeus costaricensis (Pfr.) 



Juan Vinas, on a Bromeliad; also road to Rio Reventazon, 2500- 

 3000 ft.; Cachi, 3450 ft. 



A second lot from Cachi, on Solatium, consists partly of more 

 slender shells, in contour resembling D. attenuatus, but associated 

 with others of stouter contour, all having the coloration of costa- 

 ricensis. 



Drsrmaeus attenuatus pittieri (v. Martens). 



Road from Juan Vinas to Rio Reventazon, 3000 ft. One speci- 

 men with typical markings. There is another from Juan Vinas, 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



2500 ft., without dark markings, which seems to be an albino muta- 

 tion of pittieri, parallel to the mutation concolor of eastern Mexico 

 rather than directly referable to that form.^ Von Martens has 

 noted that in the State of Vera Cruz ''the white variety [mut. con- 

 color] has been found with typically colored specimens" of D. at- 

 tenuatus. 



"Dijm&exis josephus (Angas). 



A shell of the uniform white mutation was taken at Guapiles by 

 D. E. Harrower. 



SUCCINEID^. 

 Succinea recisa Morelet. 



Juan Vinas, nearer waterfall, 3300 ft. 



Succinea guatemalensis Morelet. 



Rio Reventazon, foot of waterfall near bridge, below Juan Vinas; 

 also at 2500 ft. on petiole of "Hoja de Pato";« near Cachi, 3450 ft. 



PHYSIDiE. 

 Aplexa fuliginea (Morelet). 



S. Isidro del Tejar, 4500 ft. 



Aplexa spiculata guatemalensis Fischer & Crosse. 



Ditch at the south end of Cartago and other places about the 

 city, 4750 ft.; Rio Zapote at confluence with Rio Reventazon, Cachi, 

 3450 ft. 



PLANORBIDiE. 

 Planorbis tenuis Phil. 



Rio de la Canas north of Santa Cruz. Guanacaste. abundant.'' 

 150 ft. 



Planorbis caribaeus Orb. 



East of Cartago and four miles southwest of the same place; S. 

 Isidro del Tejar, 4500 ft. 



Planorbis hondurasensis Clessin. 



Ditch along the road from San Jose to La Verbena, 3800 ft. 



' Cf. BioUey, Moll. terr. y fluv. de la meseta central de Costa Rica, 1897, 

 p. 13. 



^"An Aroid plant with gigantic arrow- or heart-shaped leaves and strong, 

 partly recumbent stems three to six inches thick." A Year of Costa Rican 

 Natural History, pp. 167, 334. 



^A Year of Costa Rican Natural History, p. 469. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



ANCYLID^. 

 Uncancylus calverti n. sp. Fig. 4. 



Brook near Rio Reventazon, Juan Vinas, 2500 ft., Apr. 28, 1910. 

 Type and paratypes, No. 105277, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is oval, moderately elevated, the altitude half the width, 

 the apex acute, recurved or hooked, at the posterior fourth of the 

 length and about half way between the median line and the right 

 margin. The anterior and left slopes are convex above, nearly 

 straight near the margins; posterior strongly concave, the right 

 slope much less so. Isabella colored, rather opaque, not glossy. 

 Sculpture of many raised striae radiating from the summit, a few 

 in the middle, anteriorly, coarse, the rest fine and narrow; on the 

 sides and behind they are scarcely to be seen except by transmitted 

 light. The interior has a translucent-whitish layer. 



Length 7.4, width 4.6, alt. 2.3 mm. 



Ancyckis conccntricus Orb., which appears to be nearly related, 

 is less symmetrical in contour, with the apex further towards the 

 right, and with about the same length it is more elevated. 



Ancyclus radiatus Guilding,^ which is known to me only from 

 Guilding's account, resembles A. calverti in sculpture, but it is 

 narrower relative to the length, if Guilding's figures are accurate; 

 moreover, the apical part is not abruptly narrowed near the tip, 

 as it is in XJ . calverti. Practically all authors who have considered 

 the question agree in considering A. excentricus Morel, identical 

 with A. radiatus. The former is a well known species, quite dis- 

 tinct from U. calverti. 



The writer is indebted to Dr. Bryant Walker for reviewing the 

 determination of this species, and indicating differences from A. 

 radiatus. He also called attention to an error in H. & A. Adams, 

 "Genera of Recent Mollusca", II, p. 265, pi. 84, fig. 5, said to rep- 

 resent A. radiatus, but really copied from one of Guilding's figures 

 of A. irroratus. This mistake has been perpetuated in the works 

 of Bourguignat and Clessin. 



The genus Uncancylus is new to North America. The known 

 species are chiefly Brazilian. It was proposed for South American 

 Ancyli with the spire strongly hooked towards the right side, the 

 shell therefore sinistral. Type Ancylus harilensis Moric' 



8 The Zoological Journal, III, 1828, p. .536, Suppl. pi. 26, figs. 7, 8, 9. On 

 dead leaves in ditches, St. Vincent. 

 » Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1913, p. 671. 




8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



This species is closely related in shell characters to the type of 

 the genus Uncancylus. Since the teeth are unknown in that and 

 other groups of South American Ancylidae, and the system of the 

 family, as developed by Dr. Bryant Walker, is largely based upon 

 the modes of specialization of the teeth, its dentition becomes of 

 interest. 



Fig. 4. Left and upper figures, U. calverti. Right and lower figures, U. ameliae. 



In U. calverti there are 21-1-21 teeth in nearly straight trans- 

 verse rows. The central tooth is bicuspid, the cusps very short, 

 deeply separated. The laterals have three major cusps, the ento- 

 cone and mesocone more or less united; between them and the 

 ectocone there is a minute accessory cusp. Outside of the ecto- 

 cone there is a minute cusp in the inner laterals, then two, and in 

 the middle teeth of the lateral series, four or five little cusps. In 

 some teeth a minute cusp appears between mesocone and entocone, 

 and in the median and outer laterals another arises on the inner 

 side of the entocone. The laterals are rather widely spaced, more 

 so towards the edges of the radula. The basal plates are shorter 

 than the cusps and very indistinct. 



o 



o ^ s^S^ 



Fig. 5. — Uncancylus calverti, half row of teeth. 



The jaw is long, slender, of wide, very short plates and with no 

 lateral processes. 



On comparison with the series of illustrations of Ancylid teeth 

 prepared by Walker it is obvious that Uncancylus is closely related 

 ito the African genus Burnupia Walker. Except for the greater 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



development of small accessoiy cusps in the American species there 

 is no material difference. No North American genus has similar 

 teeth. 



Uncancylus ameliae n. sp. Fig. 4, left and lower figures. 



Rio Zapote, at confluence with the Rio Reventazon, 3450 ft. 

 March 4, 1910. Type and paratypes, No. 105260, A. N. S. P. 



With a general resemblance to U. calverti, this species is smaller, 

 relatively wider and higher. The periphery is elliptical, bilaterally 

 symmetrical. Anterior and left slopes are convex, right slope con- 

 cave and very steep, posterior slope somewhat concave; the apex 

 recurved, hook-hke, and very close to the right side, at the posterior 

 sixth of the length. Isabella colored, without gloss. Sculpture of 

 fine, thread-like radial striae, which are a little larger and more 

 widely spaced in front. 



Length 4.8, width 3.4, alt. 1.6 mm. 



AMPULLARIID.^. 

 Ampullaria fiagellata Say. 



Rio del Canas north of Santa Cruz, Guanacaste, 150 ft. 



AMNICOLID^. 

 Amnicola tryoni Pils. 



Brook near Rio Reventazon. Juan Vinas, 2500 ft. Four miles 

 southwest of Cartago, 4500 ft. A very young specimen, probably 

 of this species, was found attached to a dragonfly exuvia (Palaem- 

 nema sp.) at the nearer waterfall, Juan Vinas, 3300 ft. This species 

 was originally described from Javali, in the Chontales district, 

 Nicaragua, at 1750 ft. 



UNIONIDiE. 

 Nephronaias tempisquensis n. sp. Fig. 6. 



Rio Tempisque, Filadelfia, Jan. 18, 1910, 50 ft. Type and para- 

 types (2 whole specimens and 4 valves), No. 105225, A. N. S. P. 



The shell is oblong, the length slightly exceeding twice the alt., 

 beaks at about the anterior third. The dorsal and ventral margins 

 are but weakly convex, the anterior end rounded, posterior end 

 obliquely subtruncate. The beaks are eroded, but little projecting. 

 Surface somewhat glossy, under the lens showing very fine, hair-like 

 and somewhat wav^ed threads in the direction of growth lines, more 

 prominent on the posterior end. Color deep colonial buff with 

 numerous green rays. Interior white. The cardinal teetl^ are 

 compressed, in the left valve subequal, strongly crenulated, the 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



single cardinal of the right valve high and oblique. The lateral 

 teeth are smooth and not very long. 



Length 28.3, alt. 15, diara. 10 mm. 

 " 30.7, " 16.3, " 9 " 



This species stands near iV. macneilii (Lea) , but differs as follows : 

 it is not biangular behind, is relatively longer, the striation less 

 crowded. N. dysoni (Lea) is also broader with the cardinal teeth 

 less compressed. 



^ y 



Fig. 6. — Nephronaias tempisquensis . 



No species of the family has hitherto been reported from the Rio 

 Tempisque, or from any Costa Rican stream draining into the 

 Pacific. 



MUTELID^. 

 Anodontites luteolus (Lea). 



Rio Tempisque, Filadelfia, Jan. 18, 1910, 50 ft. Lea's type of 

 this species was said to be from the Isthmus of Darien, but his 

 figures were drawn from a larger specimen from Lake Nicaragua 

 (Gabb), No. 41833, A. N. S. P. In the single specimen from the 

 Rio Tempisque the hinge line is straight instead of somewhat curved 

 as in the type and that from Lake Nicaragua. 




1920. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



February 17. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: John A. 

 Brown, Jr., A. Sidney Carpenter, Joseph M. Fox, Thomas C. Stell- 

 wagen, and WiUiam K. Ramborger. 



Mr. Henry W. Fowler made a communication on: "Habits 

 and Distribution of some of our Local Fishes." (No abstract.) 



The report of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award 

 conferring the gold medal on Professor Thomas Chrowder Cham- 

 berlin, Ph.D., LL.D., Sc.D., of the University of Chicago, was 

 unanimously adopted. 



Thomas Chrowder Chamberlin was born in Mattoon, Illinois, 

 September 25, 1843. He graduated from Beloit College in 1866, 

 and received the degree of A.M. at the same institution in 1869. 

 He pursued graduate studies at the University of Michigan from 

 1868 to 1869; he received the degree of Ph.D. from the University 

 of Michigan and the University of Wisconsin in 1882. He received 

 the degree of LL.D. from the University of Michigan, Beloit College, 

 and George Washington University in 1887; from the University 

 of Wisconsin in 1904; and from L^niversity of Toronto in 1913. He 

 received the degree of Sc.D. from the University of Illinois in 1905. 

 Doctor Chamberlin married, in 1867, Miss Alma Isabel Wilson, and 

 has one son, who is now Professor Rollin T. Chamberlin, of the 

 Geological Department of the University of Chicago 



Doctor Chamberlin w-as principal of the State Normal School, 

 Delavan, Wisconsin, from 1866 to 1868, and was Professor of Nat- 

 ural Sciences at the State Normal School, Whitewater, Wisconsin, 

 from 1869 to 1873. He was Professor of Geology at Beloit College 

 from 1873 to 1882, and at George Washington University from 

 1885 to 1887. In 1887, he was elected President of the University 

 of Wisconsin, which position he held until 1892, when he was ap- 

 pointed Professor of Geology and Head of the Department of Ge- 

 ology, and Director of the Walker Museum at the University of 

 Chicago. 



Doctor Chamberlin has carried on a vast amount of geologic 

 research in a remarkably wide range of subjects. He was Assistant 

 State Geologist of Wisconsin from 1873 to 1876, and Director of 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the Geological Survey of Wisconsin from 1876 to 1882. During 

 this time he produced the series of volumes entitled "The Geology 

 of Wisconsin," which at once became the standard work on the 

 geology of that region and is recognized the world over as of very 

 great importance to the science of geology. In 1878, he repre- 

 sented the State of Wisconsin at the Paris Exposition. 



During some years following this time, Doctor Chamberlin was 

 largely engaged in researches in glacial geology, in which he was 

 recognized as the chief authority in America. In 1878, he visited 

 the glaciers of Switzerland; from 1882 to 1907 he was United States 

 Geologist in charge of the Glacial Division of the United States 

 Geological Survey; he was geologist of the Peary Relief Expedition 

 in 1894. Somewhat later, Doctor Chamberlin became associated 

 with the Carnegie Institution of Washington in research work; 

 was a member of the University of Chicago Oriental Educational 

 Investigation Committee in 1909; was Commissioner of the Illinois 

 Geological Survey; and held many other positions. He was the 

 recipient of medals at Paris in 1878 and 1893 in honor of his sci- 

 entific work; and the Helen Culver Medal of the Chicago Geo- 

 graphical Society was bestowed on him in 1910. He is a correspond- 

 ing member of the British Association for the Advancement of 

 Science, and of the London and the Edinburgh geological societies. 



After Doctor Chamberlin had gone to the University of Chicago 

 he took up actively the investigation of some of the most funda- 

 mental problems of geology, the planetesimal hypothesis, the early 

 history of the earth, the history of the atmosphere and other pro- 

 found researches, and he is today recognized as the foremost scholar 

 in the study of the fundamental principles governing the earth's 

 origin and structure. He has written widely on this subject, both 

 in the publications of the Carnegie Institution and elsewhere, and 

 a remarkable volume produced a few years ago by him and entitled 

 "The Origin of the World" shows his wonderfully clear conception 

 of the subject. 



In addition to the publications already mentioned, Doctor Cham- 

 berlin has for over fifty years been a voluminous writer in all the 

 departments of geology to which he has given his attention. The 

 "General Treatise on Geology," written by him and Professor 

 R. D. Salisbury, is recognized as the standard text-book of geology 

 in this country and abroad; and the wonderful ability with which 

 he and Professor Salisbury have edited the Journal of Geology has 

 commanded the admiration and respect of all their associates in 

 the geological profession. 



Professor Chamberlin is a member of the National Academy of 

 Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and many other sci- 

 entific organizations. He was President of the American Asso- 

 ciation for the Advancement of Science in 1908; President of the 

 Chicago Academy of Sciences in 1898 to 1914; and President of 

 the Illinois Academy of Science in 1907. He is at present Pro- 

 fessor Emeritus of Geology at the University of Chicago. 




1920. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



The following were elected Members: Hugh Bradshaw Meredith, 

 Robert F. Welsh, Henry Carlisle Stewart, Edward Woolman, George 

 F. Tyler, C. E. Tobias, Jr., W. G. McDaniel, Conrad K. Eoland, 

 Benjamin Rush, and George H. Stewart, 3rd. 



The following paper was ordered to be printed : 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



STUDIES IN MALAYAN, PAPUAN, AND AUSTRALIAN MANTIDiE. 



BY MORGAN HEBARD. 



During the past thirteen years the author has received by pur- 

 chase from dealers in London, Paris and Berlin, several collections 

 and numerous individual specimens of Orthoptera from the South 

 Seas and adjacent continental areas. Recently a large number of 

 species of Mantidse, assembled by Mr. C. F. Baker in the Malay 

 Peninsula, Borneo and the Philippines, have been received. 



It was noted, upon assembling all of the Mantidse represented, 

 that a sufficient series was availaljle to justify the undertaking of 

 a study of the material of that family before us from the regions 

 referred to above. Seventy-eight species, representing forty-one gen- 

 era, are here treated, of which five genera and twelve species are 

 described as new. The collections contain a very good representa- 

 tion, including many of the most remarkable and little known forms. 

 Though in some of the groups only a minimum of the known species 

 are before us, we feel that, on the whole, the collection is one of the 

 most complete, for the Malayan region in particular, now extant 

 in any of the world's museums. 



This is in large part due to the efforts of Mr. C. F. Baker, and 

 when we consider that he is forming collections in all orders of in- 

 sects, we feel that he should be heartily congratulated on his achieve- 

 ments to date. It is our sincere hope that his work may continue 

 successful and uninterrupted for many years to come. 



All of the material treated in the present paper, unless otherwise 

 assigned, is in the Hebard Collection at the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, with the exception of duplicate specimens 

 from Mr. Baker, of species which are not represented in his collec- 

 tion; these will be forwarded to him whenever desired. 



We have included the species from the Malayan, Papuan and 

 Australian regions, as some of the forms of each of these inter- 

 digitate over extensive areas with those of the regions adjacent. 

 We would note, however, the vital importance of Wallace's Line, 

 separating the Malayan and Papuan faunas. The great majority 

 of species found in the Malay Peninsula, Sumatra, Java, Bali, 

 Borneo and the Philippines, have little in common with those of 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



15 



Lombok, the Timor Group, Celebes, the Moluccas, Salwatty, Borneo 

 and the Aru, and Ke Islands, and vice versa. 



The geographical distribution and affinities of the species is shown 

 by the following table. An "a" indicates that a form of close affinity 

 is found in the region so checked. 



Name of Species 

 Paraoxypilus verreauxii Saussure 

 Amorphoscelis borneana Giglio-Tos 

 MetaUyticus violaceus (Burmeister) 

 Theopompula ocularis Saussure 

 Theopompa burnieisteri (Haan) 

 Orthodera ministralis (Fabricius) 

 Bolbe pygmaea (Saussure) 

 Hapalopiza tigrina Westwood 

 E psomantis tortricoides (Haan) 

 Tropidomantis tenera (Stal) 

 Neomantis australis (Saussure and Zehntner) 

 Kongobatha diademata new species 

 Xanthomantis fiava Giglio-Tos 

 Polyacanthopus mantispoides new species 

 Sceptuchus simplex new species 

 Stenojuantis novae-guineae (Haan) 

 Amantis reticulata (Haan) 

 Aviantis maculata (Shiraki) 

 Amantis aela new species 

 Amantis basilana new species 

 Gonypeta borneana Giglio-Tos 

 Compsomantis semirufula (Westwood) 

 Opsomantis tumidiceps (Bolivar) 

 Euchomenella heteroptera (Haan) 

 Euchomenella molucarum (Saussure) 

 Tagalomantis 7nanillensis (Saussure) 

 Haania lobiceps (Haan) 

 Caliris masoni (Westwood) 

 Caliris eiegans Giglio-Tos 

 Gilda suavis Giglio-Tos 

 Leptomantis albella (Burmeister) 

 Leptomantis fragilis (Westwood) 

 Leptomantis lactea (Saussure) 

 Leptomantis tonkinae new species 

 AetaeUa bakeri new species 

 Deroplatys desiccata Westwood 

 Deroplatys truncata (Guerin) 

 Sphodropoda tristis (Saussure) 

 Sphodropoda quinquedens (MacLeay) 

 Statilia maculata (Thunberg and Lundahl) 

 Statilia nemoralis (Saussure) 

 Tenodera aridifolia (StoU) 

 Tenodera attenuata (StoU) 

 Tenodera blanchardi Giglio-Tos 

 Mesopteryx alata Saussure 

 Hierodula gracilicollis Stdl 

 Hierodula vitrea (StoU) 

 Hierodula venosa (Olivier) 

 Hierodula rajah Werner 

 Hierodula patellifera (Serville) 

 Hierodula aruana Westwood 

 Hierodula laevicollis Saussure 



Malayan Papuan Australian 



Formosa 



Oriental 



Tonkin 



a 

 * 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Hierodula obiensis new species - * _ 



Hierodula sorongana (Giglio-Tos) - * _ 



Hierodula denticulata (Krauss) - * a 



Hierodula splendida new species - * a 



Rhombodera extensicollis (Serville) * _ _ 



Rhombodera stalii Giglio-Tos * - - 



Rhombodera basalts (Haan) * _ _ 



Rhottibodera valida Burmeister * - - 



Rhombodera saussurii Kirby - * - 



Archimaniis latistyla (Serville) _ _ * 



Archimantis armata Wood-Mason _ _ * 



Oligomantis orientalis Giglio-Tos * - _ 



Aeromantis moulioni Giglio-Tos * a - 



Acromantis oligoneura (Haan) * * • _ 



Aeromantis luzonica new species * _ _ 



Acromantis hesione Sti,l * a - 



Acromantis australis Saussure a * - 



Acromantis dyaka new species * a - 



Odontomantis javana javana Saussure * _ _ 



Odontomantis javana euphrosyne Stal * - - 



Hymenopus coronatus (Olivier) - * _ 



Creobroter granulicollis Saussure * _ _ 



Creobroter labuanae new species * _ _ 



Creobroter meleagris Stal * - - 



Creobroter episcopalis St&l * - - 



Theopropus elegans (Westwood) _ * _ 



A Note, on the Recent Revisionary Work on the Mantid^. 



The Mantidae as a whole have never been satisfactorily revised. 

 Of recent years, Dr. Ermanno Giglio-Tos has done much revisionary 

 work and, as a forerunner to his monograph of the family, has pub- 

 lished a pamphlet, giving the arrangement of the family according 

 to his findings.' The work of that author to date is seriously marred 

 by an utter lack of figures throughout, with the exception of one 

 paper, while his generic and specific descriptions are in almost all 

 cases deplorably insufficient. Had the studies been based on a 

 large collection, it could be hoped that, at some future time, that 

 author or another could more adequately diagnose the new genera 

 and species involved. Unfortunately the material used as a basis 

 for this work was gathered from many European institutions and 

 once returned will make an adequate and comprehensive final study 

 a most difficult matter. 



Though the number of new genera described by Giglio-Tos at 

 first glance appeared inordinately large, we believe that the great 

 majority will prove valid. It is clear that the generic units, as 

 previously recognized in the Mantidae, were composed of many 

 distinct forms, and the separation of these into logical units con- 

 stitutes the most useful portion of his contributions. 



1 Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLIX, pp. .50 to 87 (1919). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



Of the new species described by that author, we regret to state 

 that a considerable percentage appear to be of doubtful validity. 

 In isome cases mere color variants have been described as new spe- 

 cies. Geographic racial differentiation is ignored. It is clear that 

 we here have another example of the specialist whose activities 

 have apparently been wholly, or in large part, limited to the study 

 of museum specimens. 



The situation shows the absolute necessity at the present time, 

 of the specialist, working on a particular group of insects, to have 

 a first hand knowledge of the forms in nature. The significance of 

 differences observed, whether due to individual size or color varia- 

 tion, or genetic factors, or to local environmental influences, or to 

 geographic distribution and in this respect whether or not of racial 

 value, or constituting valid diagnostic criteria of specific or generic 

 value, can otherwise hardly be fathomed. 



In making this statement the author is not influenced by preju- 

 dice, but is speaking from experience, acquired through many months 

 of field work in regions where a considerable number of species of 

 the Mantidse occur. 



Systematic Treatment. 

 I. PEELAMANTIKE2. 

 1st Group, Paraoxypili. 



Paraoxypilus verreauxii Saussvire 



1870. F[araoxypilus] verreauxii Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 305. [cf, 

 Tasmania.] 



Townsville, Queensland, Australia, 2 cf . 



This remarkable little insect has been further recorded from 

 southern Australia by Saussure and from Peak Downs, Queensland, 

 Australia, by Sjostedt. The pronotum is figured by Giglio-Tos.^ 



2d Group, Perlamantes. 



Amorphoscelis borneana Giglio-Tos. 



1913. A[morphosceHs] borneana Giglio-Tos, Gen. Ins., Fasc. 144, Orth., 

 Mantidae, Perlamantinae, p. 9. [ ? , Borneo.] 



Jelabu, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, 1 9 . 



- The subfamihes and groups as given by Giglio-Tos are indicated throughout 

 the present paper. This does not mean that we indorse his system. We do 

 believe, however, that it is the most satisfactory to date and should be followed 

 pending further comprehensive revisionary work. 



^Gen. Ins., Fasc. 144, Orth., Mantidae, Perlamantinae, pi. figs. 2a and 2b 

 (1913). 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



This specimen agrees fully with the original description, except 

 that the pronotum is two millimeters in length, one millimeter less 

 than the pronotal length given by Giglio-Tos.^ 



II. Eremiafhilin^. 

 1st Group, Metallytici. 



Metallyticus violaceus (Biirmeister) . 



1838. M[etalleutica] violacea Biirmeister, Handb. Ent. II, Abth. II, pt. 1, 

 p. 527. [Java.] 



Zamboanga, Zamboanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 9. 



In the present specimen the head is without pale markings; the 

 pronotum, in addition to two pale maculations meso-laterad at 

 the caudal margin, has the medio-longitudinal sulcus pale from 

 the transverse sulcus over half the distance to the caudal margin. 



Though this species is remarkable in being strikingly metallic 

 in general coloration, it is by no means as brilliant as other species 

 of the genus. 



4th Group, Humbertiell^. 



Theopompula ocularis (Saussiire). 



1872. H[umbertiella] ocularis Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, p. 16. [9, 

 Borneo.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf . 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 1 9 . 



This and the following species so closely resemble species of the 

 American genus Gonatista, that we believe they will be found to 

 have very similar habits, living on the trunks of trees, about which 

 they run with amazing rapidity. 



Theopompa bunueisteri (Haan). 



1842. M[a7Uis] {Mantis) burmHsleri Haan, in Temminck, Verb. Nat. 



Gesch. Nederlandsche Overseesche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 80, pi. XVI, 



figs. 3 and 4. [cf, 9 , Java.] 

 1917. T[heopompa] horneana Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVIII, 



p. 85. [cf, 9, Borneo.] 



Giglio-Tos states that his horneana is very similar to burmeisteri 

 and gives certain features of coloration as the important differential 

 characters. The first of these, costal area of female tegmina as 

 transparent as in male, is apparently of no value, this being clearly 

 shown by Haan's figures to be true for burmeisteri. In the other 



* This may be due to a typographical error. The genus is described by that 

 author as having the pronotum broader than long, but the dimensions for bor- 

 neona are given as length 3, width 2.5 mm. 




1920. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



features of coloration, it would appear that a certain amount of 

 differentiation in Giglio-Tos' material is clearly ascribable to indi- 

 vidual variation. The present specimens all have the internal spines 

 of the cephalic tibiae black at their apices. We therefore do not 

 feel justified in recognizing borneana either as a valid species or 

 race. 



Jelabu, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, 1 cf . 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf, 1 9- 



The present specimens measure as follows: length of pronotum 

 cf 8.8 to 9, 9 13.9; width of pronotum cf 6 to 6.4, 9 9; length of 

 tegmen cf iO.8 to 41, 9 53 mm. 



The two males at hand, though from very widely separated 

 localities, are extremely similar, that from Jelabu slightly the paler 

 in general coloration and very slightly the larger. 



10th Group, Orthoder^. 



Orthodera ministralis (Fabricius). 



1775. M[antis] ministralis Fabricius, Syst. Ent., p. 277. [Australia.] 



Queensland, Australia, 1 9 . 



III. Iridofterygin^. 

 2nd Group, Iridopteryges. 

 Bolbe pygmaea (Saussiire). 



1871. A[meles] pygmaea Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 423. [(f. North 

 Australia.] 



Queensland, Australia, 1 cf. 



The present species, one of the smallest of the described forms 

 of the Mantidse, is now known to have a wide distribution on the 

 Australian Continent. The present specimen measures as follows: 

 length of body 12, ^ length of pronotum 2.4, width of pronotum 1.2, 

 length of tegmen 9.8, width of tegmen 2.7 mm. 



Hapalopeza tigrina Westwood. 



1889. Hapalopeza tigrina Westwood, Rev. Ins. Fam. Mantidarum, p. 37, 

 pi. XIV, fig. 13. [Singapore, [Straits Settlements]; Sarawak, [Borneo]; 

 Sumatra.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 2 <f , 5 9. 

 Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 2 9 . 



The present is the only known species of this Asiatic genus found 

 in Borneo. 



* Somewhat crushed out, this dimension having probably been less in life. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



3d Group, Tropidomantes. 



Epsomantis tortricoides (Haan). 



1842. M[antis] (Mantis) tortricoides Haan, in Temminck, Verb. Nat. 

 Gesch. Nederlandsche Over.seesche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 82, pi. XVIII, 

 fig. 4. [c?, Java.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F, Baker), 1 cf . 



This species has been referred to Platycalymma by Westwood^ 

 and to Ecinophlebia, with a query by Saussure and Zehntner.^ 

 GigHo-Tos^ has erected the genus Epsomantis to include this one 

 species, considering it separable from the Madagascar species of 

 the other two genera by the tegmina having the costal area near 

 the base much broader, nearly equalling half the total tegminal 

 width, the pronotum with prozonal margin dilated and submem- 

 braneous and the cephalic tibiae provided with eight external spines. 

 This latter feature is shown by Haan's figure, but we believe that 

 the number was actually different, as well as features of venation. 

 We are led to suppose that the specimen before us represents 

 the first individual of this extraordinary insect taken since the 

 type. 



In consequence, we would note the folloAving features, some of 

 which we believe to be of generic diagnostic value, in addition to 

 those given by Giglio-Tos. We therefore retain Epsomantis as 

 a valid genus. 



Pronotum with lateral margins microscopically denticulate, dorsal 

 surface with a medio-longitudinal depression, in which, on the 

 shaft, a very delicate and smooth carina is developed. ^ Tegmina 

 with humeral vein with one conspicuous branch distad, median vein 

 paralleling humeral vein to median portion, then strongly diverging 

 from it, discoidal vein with four distinct branches, which them- 

 selves branch near the sutural margin. Cephalic femora with 

 ventro-external margin bearing five spines, in addition to the small 

 genicular spine, with a series of minute spinulae intercalated between 

 these; ventro-internal margin with the following formula of spines, 

 ililililililiil, the long spines all being directed inward, the last being 

 a small genicular spine. The tibiae have fourteen to fifteen external 



6 Rev. Ins. Fam. Mantidarum, p. 40, (1889). 



7 In Grandidier, Hist. Nat. Madagascar, XXIII, Orth., p. 177, (1895). 

 « Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, p. 47, (1915). 



9 This violates the group character given by Giglio-Tos, "metazona del pro- 

 noto munita di una carena ben distinta che si estende in parte anche suUa pro- 

 zona." We are, however, satisfied that this remarkable species is an aberrant 

 member of the Tropidomantes. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



and fifteen to sixteen internal spines, which increase regularly in 

 size and length distad.^" 



In life the specimen was probably a very delicate pale green. 

 The body and limbs have now faded to yellowish, except for three 

 small and regularly placed dots on the external face of each cephalic 

 femur, which are very rich green. The tegmina are very pale 

 lumiere green. Mesad across the humeral field is a narrow irregular 

 transverse band, formed by a faint tracery along the veinlets of 

 this area of vinaceous ; there is also a minute fleck of the same meso- 

 proximad in the humeral field. 



Though Haan's figure shows fewer spines and a much more simple 

 tegminal venation, we believe that these differences are wholly 

 due to a certain amount of inaccuracy on the part of the artist. 



Tropidomantis tenera (Stal). 



1858. Mantis tenera St§,l, Kongl. Svenska Freg. Eugenies Resa, Ins., 

 p. 314. [ 9 ; Singapore, [Straits Settlements].] 



Zamboanga, Zamboanga. Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 19. 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, JVIalay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F; Baker), 2 9 . 



Penang Island, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, 

 (fromC. F. Baker), 1 cf, 2 9. 



The Zamboanga and Penang females are slightly larger, with 

 pronotum slightly heavier, than those from the type locality. 



Neomantis australis (Saussure and Zehntner). 



189.5. Tropidomantis aKstralis Saussure and Zehntner, in Grandidier, Hist. 

 Nat. Madagascar, XXIII, Orth., p. 169. [cf ; Queensland, Australia.] 



Townsville, Queensland, Australia, 2 cT. 



The very broad oval, pale green tegmina give this little insect 

 a distinctive appearance. The minute black dots on the costal 

 margin of the tegmina are an interesting feature. 



^" We would here note that the spine formulae of the cephalic femora and 

 tibiae is most important in the Mantidse and not always easy to record accur- 

 ately. For the femora we find on the ventro-external margin a few, usually 

 long, spines; on the ventro-internal margin more numerous spines, usually alter- 

 nating in length proximad, and in addition to these should be noted separately 

 the usually minute genicular spines, when present, and the very important 

 discoidal spines, which proximad run in an oblique line across the ventral sur- 

 face of the femur. Three or four of these occur and it is particularly important 

 not to confuse one or two of these nearest the margin with the marginal spines 

 proper. In the tibiae the formulae are more simple. All of the external spines 

 must be counted, but in counting the ventro-internal spines great care must 

 be taken not to include the apical claw, which is much larger and longer than 

 any spine and projects from the dorso-distal portion of the tibia, but might 

 easily be mistaken for the terminal spine of the ventro-internal series. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



KONGOBATHA'i new genus. 



In the arrangement of the Mantidae we place this genus after 

 Neomantis. From all known genera of the Tropidomantes the 

 present is separated by the strongly elevated lateral portions of 

 the vertex and the slender pronotum, which shows a minimum 

 development of the medio-longitudinal carina ;^' in the majority 

 of genera of the Tropidomantes this carina being very decided and 

 lamellate. The insect is much more attenuate than in Tropidotnantis 

 and consequently very much more attenuate than in Neomantis, 

 but the spination of the ventro-internal margin of the cephalic 

 femora and very elongate supra-anal plate agrees instead with the 

 latter genus. 



Genus monotypic. Genotype. — Kongobatha diademaia here de- 

 scribed. 



Generic description (from female, male unknown). — Size small, 

 normal for the Tropidomantes. Form slender, tegmina and wings 

 much narrower than in Tropidomantis, narrower even than in Xan- 

 thomantis, with apices acute and sharply rounded. Head much 

 less transverse than in Tropidomantis and Neomantis, facial scutel- 

 lum very strongly transverse, occiput distinctly quadrisulcate, the 

 juxta-ocular portions raised high above the eyes in blunted angulate 

 projections, the median sections much lower, somewhat swollen 

 but with dorsal margin transverse." Ocelli moderately well devel- 

 oped, forming a triangle very slightly broader than high. Pro- 

 notum slender, slightly longer than cephalic coxa, margins smooth; 

 supra-coxal expansion very weak with its margins very feebly and 

 broadly convex; medio-longitudinal carina decided, but not as 

 strongly developed or lamellate as is usual in the Tropidomantes, 

 completely severed by the supra-coxal transverse sulcus, disappear- 

 ing mesad on collar of pronotum. Tegmina with veins as character- 

 istic for the group; false veins regular, not irregular as in Tropi- 

 domantis or very irregular as in Neomantis; marginal field very 

 narrow, with its immediate margin opaque; other portions of teg- 

 mina and wings hyaline. Wings projecting slightly beyond teg- 

 mina. Cephalic coxa with margins unarmed but showing a few 

 very minute hair follicles, which are more numerous along the 

 straight dorsal margins of the cephalic femur. Cephalic femur 



" One of the aboriginal tribes of Queensland. 



12 Excepting, as to this feature, the aberrant Epsnmantis (ortricoides (Haan) 



" Evidently a high specialization of the type shown by Tropidomantis. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



slender, with unguicular sulcus at end of proximal two-fifths; three 

 discoidal spines; four spines on ventro-external margin and an addi- 

 tional small spine on external and internal genicular lobe; between 

 but inside the first two spines of the ventro-external margin is a 

 small round concavity into which, when the limbs are flexed, fits 

 the apex of the terminal spine of the ventro-external margin of 

 the cephalic tibia; spine formula on ventro-internal marginilililililil. 

 Cephalic tibia with ventro-external margin armed with nine spines, 

 increasing in length distad, except that the second is longer than 

 the third and the fourth longer than the fifth; ventro-internal margin 

 armed with eleven spines which increase regularly in length distad. 

 Caudal metatarsus very slightly longer than the combined length 

 of the succeeding tarsal joints. Cerci absent in specimen at hand. 

 Supra-anal plate very elongate. 



Kongobatha diademata new species. (Plate I, figures 1 and 2.) 



The form of the specialized vertex is a very distinctive feature 

 in this species. The insect does not look like the other species of 

 the Tropidomantes and it is only when closely examined that the 

 affinity is apparent, the head and pronotum being then seen to 

 show only a distinctive development from the same type found in 

 Tropidomantis. 



Type. — 9 ; Queensland, Austraha. [Hebard Collection Type No. 

 518.] 



In addition to the features given in the generic description, we 

 would note the following. Facial scutellum five times as broad 

 as high. Short, somewhat irregular, oblique veinlets connect the 

 marginal and mediastine veins of the tegmina and of the wings 

 proximad only. Stigma indicated as a colorless line running from 

 the discoidal to near the humeral vein, beyond which from a number 

 of irregularly confused veinlets springs the median vein. Wings with 

 distal portion of anterior field as long as its basal width, discoidal 

 vein triramose. Cephalic femora with ventral surface supplied 

 with hairs and within the marginal spines minutely and irregularly 

 denticulate; spines of ventro-internal margin extend to opposite 

 distal margin of femoral brush, the first two and the last of the 

 longer spines exceeding the other longer spines very slightly in 

 length. Supra-anal plate fully twice as long as basal width, lateral 

 margins weakly concave convergent proximad, thence straight in 

 the gradually narrowing slender distal portion to the acute apex, 

 which extends well beyond the comparatively elongate subgenital 

 plate. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Body and limbs immaculate; probably discolored," yellowish 

 brown. Eyes blackish chestnut brown. Tegmina and wings hya- 

 line, strongly iridescent, except very narrowly along the costal 

 margin of the tegmina, which portion, not more than a third the 

 distance between the marginal and mediastine veins proximad, is 

 opaque, yellowish brown. 



Length of body 24.5, length of pronotum 5.7, length of pronotal 

 collar 2, greatest width of pronotum 1.8, length of tegmen 16.5, 

 width of marginal field of tegmen .8, length of wing 16.3, length 

 of cephalic femur 5.8, length of caudal metatarsus 1.7 mm. 



The type of this interesting species is unique. 



Xanthomantis flava Giglio-Tos. 



1915. X[anthomantis] flava Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI,p.53. 

 [ ? , Borneo.] 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 9 . 



The striking yellow coloration of the entire marginal fields of 

 the tegmina and of the distal portion of the entire marginal fields 

 of the wings, which are otherwise clear hyaline and iridescent, gives 

 this specimen a close resemblance to individuals of certain species 

 of the Neuropteroid genus Mantispa. Small lateral flecks of purple 

 are found on the facial scutellum, this color appearing as a hair- 

 line, margining the opaque marginal portions of the tegmina and 

 wings. 



The strong lamellate medio-longitudinal carina of the pronotum 

 is completely and suddenly cleft by the supra-coxal transverse 

 sulcus, which carina only extends a brief distance on the collar 

 in the specimen before us. Counting from the base to the apex of 

 the cephalic tibia, the spines of the ventro-external margin increase 

 in length distad, except the second and sixth, which are very long 

 and the tenth which is slightly longer than the eleventh and last 

 spine. Though the cerci are damaged, the last joint is seen to be 

 nearly five times as long as its greatest width, the preceding joints 

 .slightly longer than wide. Giglio-Tos has not mentioned this 

 feature and the spine formula for the cephalic tibia would appear 

 to have been counted from the apex proximad, the type having 

 two instead of three small spines between the second and sixth. 



" The feet are greenish, which leads us to believe that, in life, this insect may 

 be pale green. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



POLYACANTHOPUS new genus. 



This genus shows very close affinity to Xanthomantis in general 

 form and tegminal and wing structure, but differs particularly in the 

 different ocellar arrangement, weaker armament of the ventro- 

 internal margins of the cephalic femora, remarkably heavy arma- 

 ment of the cephalic tibiae and in the percurrent pronotal carina. 



The armament of the cephalic tibiae is heavier than in any species 

 of the Mantidae we have ever seen. 



Genus monotypic. Genotype. — Polyacanthopus mantispoides 

 here described. 



Generic Description.- — Size small, normal for the Tropidomantes. 

 Form slender, tegmina and wings narrower than in Tropidomantis, 

 but with apices rather broadly rounded, similar to the type developed 

 in Xanthomantis and suggesting the type found in the widely sepa- 

 rated genera Leptomantis and Aetaella. Head broad, facial clypeus 

 transverse with dorsal margin scarcely defined, occiput scarcely 

 raised above eyes, showing a broad and weak concavity mesad, 

 these features as in Xanthomantis. Ventral ocellus smaller than 

 the dorsal pair of ocelli and placed at a slightly greater distance 

 from them than the width between them. Pronotum slender, 

 slightly longer than the cephalic coxa, margins smooth, supra-coxal 

 expansion weak with its margins broadly convex, medio-longitudinal 

 carina heavy, * lamellate, percurrent, completely severed by the 

 transverse supra-coxal sulcus; in all these features agreeing with 

 Xanthomantis, except that in that genus the carina disappears 

 before reaching the cephahc margin of the collar, Tegmina and 

 wings narrow, with venation as characteristic for the group, clear 

 hyaline except external section of marginal field of tegmina and 

 distal portion of external section of marginal field of wings, which 

 very narrow portions are opaque, wings projecting well beyond 

 tegmina; these features giving to the insect a decided general re- 

 semblance to Xanthomantis and causing individuals of these genera 

 to have a close superficial resemblance to certain Neuropteroid 

 genera of the subfamily Mantispinae. Cephalic coxa with margins 

 smooth. Cephalic femur slender, dorsal margin straight and smooth, 

 unguicular sulcus near base; three discoidal spines; ventro-external 

 margin with four elongate and slender spines, between but slightly 

 outside of the first two of which is a small round concarity, into 

 which fits the apex of the terminal spine of the ventro-external 

 margin of the cephalic tibia when the limbs are flexed, genicular 

 areas unarmed; spines on ventro-internal margin fewer and not 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



alternating in length to the marked degree found in Xanihomantis. 

 Cephalic tibia with ventro-external margin armed with very numer- 

 ous (twenty-five and twenty-six) and closely placed spines increasing 

 in length distad but with two in the series and two before the very 

 elongate terminal spine much more elongate; ventro-internal margin 

 armed with very numerous (twenty-five) and closely placed spines, 

 elongate and slender and increasing slightly in length distad, except 

 the proximal spines which are very small. Caudal limbs absent 

 from the specimen at hand. Cerci slender, moderately elongate, 

 terminal joint very elongate oval; these appendages much as in 

 the specimen of Xanthomantis before us. Apex of abdomen crushed 

 in specimen under consideration. 



Polyacanthopus mantispoides new species. (Plate I, figures 3 and 4.) 



The present species shows a very close general resemblance to 

 Xanthomantis flava Giglio-Tos; having, however, many important 

 differences as given in the generic description. 



Specialization, considering the astonishingly great numerical 

 abundance of spines on the cephalic tibiae, would appear to have 

 reached a condition almost detrimental to the effectiveness of the 

 grasping limbs in the present species. 



Type. — d* ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F. 

 Baker.) [Hebard Collection Type No. 517.] 



In addition to the features given in the generic description, we 

 would note the following for this remarkable species. Dorsal pair 

 of ocelli very large, ventral ocellus large. Occiput, immediately 

 above these, showing a small but well defined convexity, with a 

 minute but distinct transverse carina and a vertical carina extend- 

 ing briefly dorsad, the juncture of these carinae forming a weak 

 median projection. Internal margins of eyes concave and weakly 

 divergent dorsad. ^^ Medio-longitudinal carina of pronotum strongly 

 developed and lamellate, as is characteristic of the group Tropi- 

 domantes. Short, straight, transverse veinlets occur in the opaque 

 portion of the marginal fields of the tegmina and wings, connecting 

 the marginal and mediastine veins. Stigma subobsolete. Apex of 

 abdomen crushed. Cercus considerably less than twice as long as 

 exposed portion of subgenital plate, segments increasing in length 



'* In the female of X. flava at hand these margins are feebly concave and 

 rather decdedly divergent dorsad, while in that specimen a minute but well 

 developed tubercle is found on each side between the antennal sockets and the 

 ocular margins. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



distad, penultimate segment three-quarters as long as wide, last 

 segment elongate ovate, three times as long as its greatest width, 

 with apex moderately acute. Subgenital plate with lateral margins 

 thickened, convergent, very feebly convex, to near median portion 

 where these thickened portions terminate, the brief meso-distal 

 portion of the margin weakly concave between the ridges which 

 indicate style bases, no styles being developed in this specimen. 

 Cephalic femur with ventro-internal margin armed with (twelve 

 and thirteen) spines which alternate slightly in length, ^'^ except 

 in area below femoral brush, which portion of the margin is supplied 

 with two or three minute spinulse (not included in the above count) . 

 Cephalic tibia with the more elongate spines of the ventro-external 

 margin the ninth, seventeenth, twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth on 

 one limb, the eighth, sixteenth, twenty-third and twenty-fourth 

 on the other limb,i^ not including the longer distal spine of this 

 margin. 



Body and limbs immaculate; apparently discolored, yellowish 

 brown. Eyes blackish chestnut brown. Tegmina and wings clear 

 hyaline, very strongly iridescent, except narrow marginal area 

 between marginal and mediastine veins, which in the tegmina is 

 entirely opaque, colonial buff, in the wings similarly opaque, colonial 

 buff, distad in this area. 



Length of body 21, length of pronotum 5, length of pronotal 

 collar 1.8, greatest width of pronotum 1.8, width of marginal field 

 of tegmen .9, length of wing 15.5, length of cephalic femur 5.3 mm. 



The type of this singular species is unique. 



4th Group, Nanomantes. 

 SCEPTUCHUSis new genus. 



The present genus is apparently nearest in relationship to Nano- 

 mantis Saussure. It is seen to differ from Nanomantis in the more 

 even contour of the occiput with juxta-ocular swellings very feebly 

 indicated, weakly convex, carinate shaft of pronotum, smooth 



"^ So numerous and elongate- are the spines of the opposed margin of the ceph- 

 alic tibia when the limb is flexed that the present specimen shows fhe majority 

 of the longer spines of this margin to have been broken, apparently by contact 

 with these. ] 



" The difference indicated here for the two limbs is due to the Ikct that one 

 limb has one less of the minute proximal spines than the other. 



'* Wand Bearer, in allusion to the manner in which the Mantida point with 

 their cephalic limbs. i 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



cephalic coxae and apparently^' fewer spines on the ventro-internal 

 margin of the cephalic femora. 



Genus monotypic. Genotype. — Sceptuchus simplex, here de- 

 scribed. 



Generic Description. — Size small, normal for the Nanomantes; 

 form slender. Head decidedly transverse; facial scutellum very 

 strongly transverse; occiput quadrisulcate, these sulci broad and 

 shallow, the dorsal outline of the sections thus formed transverse, 

 the juxta-ocular sections showing a very broad and feeble con- 

 vexity. Ocelli moderately well developed, the dorsal pair vertical, 

 very elongate oval in form, above which is a transverse and very 

 delicate carina. Pronotum slender, slightly longer than cephalic 

 €Oxa, margins smooth, supra-coxal expansion moderately developed 

 with its margins moderately convex, medio-longitudinal cai-ina 

 distinct on shaft of pronotum, lying in a broad medio-longitudinal 

 depressed area, absent on collar. Tegmina elongate and moderately 

 narrow with apices rather broadly rounded, entirely hyaline, median 

 and discoidal veins connected by an oblique hyaline linear stigma, 

 transverse sigmoid veinlets broken mesad by delicate false veins 

 only in distal portion of tegmina. The wings do not project beyond 

 the tegmina. Supra-anal plate triangularity produced, not as long 

 as proximal width. Cerci simple, cylindrical, tapering to acute 

 apices. Coxa with margins smooth. Cephalic femur slender, with 

 dorsal margin straight, pinched into a moderately decided ridge, 

 unguicular sulcus at end of proximal two -fifths, three discoidal 

 spines, four spines on ventro-external margin and an additional 

 small spine on each genicular lobe, spine formula of ventro-internal 

 margin ilililililiiil. Cephalic tibia with ventro-external margin 

 armed with seven spines, increasing in length distad, of which the 

 first is decidedly the smallest and separated a greater distance 

 from the second than the intervals between the others; ventro- 

 internal margin armed with eleven spines which increase in length 

 distad. Caudal metatarsus extremely elongate and slender, over 

 twice as long as combined length of succeeding tarsal joints. 



Sceptuchus simplex new species. (Plate I, figures 5 and 6.) 



The present species apparently shows nearest affinity to Nano- 

 mantis australis Saussure.^" In addition to the differential features 



^^ Saussure gives for Nanomantis australis, the genotype, seven spines on the 

 ventro-external margin of the cephahc femora in his key. In his supplementary 

 diagnosis, however, he gives seven spines for that margin and ten for the ventro- 

 internal margin, leaving some doubt as to the accuracv of this count. 



2oMelang. Orth., I, pp. 264 and 435, pi. VII, figs. (34. 64a, 64b, (1870 and 

 1871). 




1920.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



given in the generic diagnosis, we would note that the present species 

 "appears to differ from all others, assigned to the group Nanomantes 

 by Giglio-Tos, in the simple immaculate coloration of limbs and 

 organs of flight. 



Type. — cf; Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Penin- 

 sula. (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection Type No. 519.] 



In addition to the characters described in the generic treatment, 

 we would give the following. Facial scutellum five times as broad 

 as high; dorsal margin weakly defined, transverse mesad, oblique 

 laterad. Antennae and costal margins of tegmina microscopically 

 ciliate. Short, straight, oblique or vertical veinlets connect the 

 marginal and mediastine and mediastine and humeral veins of 

 the tegmina and wings. Cephalic femur with ventral surface 

 supplied with hairs and within the external spines somewhat angu- 

 lately ridged and denticulate; ventro-internal margin with spines 

 extending to opposite distal margin of femoral brush, alternating 

 long and short, except the three successive smaller spines beneath 

 femoral brush, the elongate terminal spine longer than any of the 

 others. Supra-anal plate triangular, with apex rather broadly 

 rounded. Subgenital plate with lateral portions narrowly curved 

 upward; dextral portion evenly and weakly convex, sinistral por- 

 tion straight in proximal half, then in remaining portion similarly 

 convex and convergent with dextral portion; at the apices of these 

 margins are situated minute styles, about three times as long as 

 broad, separated by a brief interval, in which median portion the 

 plate is very thin with margin angulate emarginate at slightly less 

 than ninety degrees. 



Body and limbs immaculate, pale yellowish brown, probably 

 pale green in life, as is indicated by the presence of a few minute 

 irregular green patches. Eyes blackish chestnut brown. Tegmina 

 and wings hyaline, iridescent, almost clear, showing an exceedingly 

 faint tinge of yellowish brown. Humeral vein and both median 

 and discoidal veins, as far as the colorless stigma, purplish vina- 

 ceous. 



Length of body 18.5, length of pronotum 5, length of pro- 

 notal collar 1.8, greatest width of pronotum 1.7, length of teg- 

 men 14.7, width of tegminal marginal field .8, length of wing 

 13.7, length of cephalic femur 5.3, length of caudal metatarsus 

 4 mm. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



5th Group, Stenomantes. 



Stenomantis novae-guineae (Haan). 



1842. M[atdis] (Mantis) novae-guineae Haan, in Temminck, Verh. Nat. 

 Gesch. Nederlandsche Overseesche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 7G, ])1. XVII, 

 fig. 3. [ 9 , New Guinea.] 



Fakfak, Dutch New Guinea, 1 9 . 



The pecuUar, half-atrophied organs of flight and evenly swollen 

 supra-coxal expansion with deep sulci latero-cephalad are striking 

 features in this long and very slender insect. 



Haan's figure is not as good as is usual in that work, the color 

 pattern and contour being indistinct and particularly that of the 

 supra-coxal expansion being apparently underestimated. 



The tegmina are glassy, heavily suffused with blackish mars 

 violet in the present specimen. Length of body 45, length of pro- 

 notum 17.4, greatest width of pronotum 3.1, least width of shaft 

 of pronotum 1.2, length of tegmen 15.3, width of tegminal marginal 

 field 1.2, length of caudal femur 17.8 mm. 



IV. Ambling. 

 2d Group, Gonypetae. 



Amantis reticulata (Haan). 



1842. M\antis] (Oxypilus) reticulata Haan, in Temminck, Verh. Nat. 



Gesch. Nederlandsche Overseesche Bezittingen, Ortli., p. 87, pi. XVII, 



fig. 9. [cf, 9 ; Krawang, [Java].] 

 1915. A[mantis] gestri GigUo-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, p. 154. 



[cf ; Si-Rambe and Pangherang-Pisang, Sumatra.] 



Though a meagre four-line description alone is given for gestri 

 Giglio-Tos, it is sufficient to show that the features of difference 

 are quite inadequate to warrant nominal recognition of any kind. 

 The present series shows that the cephalic metatarsi in this species 

 are entirely dark or dark only at the distal extremities, this a feature 

 oi^ individual variation, the intensive dark condition occurring, 

 however, more often in the male sex. 



Kelantan, Siam, 1 9 • 



Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, 

 (fromC. F. Baker), 2 d^. 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 2 cf, 3 9. 



Palabuan, southern Java, (from H. Fruhstorfer) , 1 9 . 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 1 <f , 2 9 . 



We find that in this species, genotype of Amantis by original 

 designation, the cephalic femora have five ventro-external spines 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



(including the minute genicular spine), the cephalic tibiae ten ventro- 

 external spines; Giglio-Tos gives nine spines for the ventro-external 

 margin of the cephalic tibiae in his generic diagnosis. 



Amantis maculata (Shiraki). 



1911. Gonypeta maculata Shiraki, -^ Annot. Zool. Japonensis, VII, p. 'MS. 

 [d^, 9 ; Shizuoka, Japan; Taihoku and Taipin, Formosa.] 



Koonnaniu, Formosa, September 24, 1906, 1 9 . 



The present species is clearly a depauperate derivative from the 

 same stock as A. reticulata. In ynaculaia the cephalic tibiae have 

 the ventro-external margins armed with eleven spines. 



Amantis aeta-- new species. (Plate I, figure 7 and plate II, figure 9.) 



This species is one of the least distinctively marked forms of the 

 genus. Except for a dark brown suffusion distad on the ventral 

 surface of the cephalic femora, the body and limbs show no striking 

 markings, only in the female do less decided maculae of dark brown 

 occur as well ventro-distad on the internal faces of the cephalic 

 coxae and at the unguicular sulcus of the cephalic femora. 



The species furthermore apparently differs from all others in 

 having the tegmina and wings immaculate, clear hyaline in the 

 males; hyaline but very faintly tinged with yellowish brown in 

 the females, this much stronger in the marginal field of the teg- 

 mina and appearing distad as a succession of small flecks on the 

 costal margin of the wings, with stigma colorless in both sexes. 



Type. — cf ; Mount Banahao, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands. 

 (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection Type No. 520.] 



Size slightly larger, form somewhat more slender, with tegmina 

 and wings more elongate than in the genotype, A. reticulata. Head 

 generally as in that species, with occiput lacking sulci and weakly 

 convex in transverse dorsal outline, differing from reticulata in 

 having the triangle formed by the ocelli slightly broader than high 

 and in having the facial scutellum broader, about three-fifths as 

 high as greatest width. Antennae ciliate. Pronotum very similar 

 to that of reticulata, but appreciably more slender, with narrowing 

 of supra-coxal expansion cephalad not as decided; medio-longi- 

 tudinally very weakly sulcate with a very feeble carina indicated 

 on shaft as in reticulata, supra-coxal expansion and transverse supra- 



^' We are unable to determine whether Shiraki's references are to actual pub- 

 lications. 



" Gonipeta maculata Shiraki, Matsumura, 1907, Ekichiu-Mokuroku. 



Gonipeta nawai Shiraki, 1908, Konchiusekai." 

 ^- The Aetas, or Negritos, are the aborigines of the Philippines. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



coxal sulcus decided, but not as decided as in that species; shaft 

 slightly less than one and one-half times as long as neck; lateral 

 margins of pronotum lamellate and microscopically denticulate, 

 these denticulations the bases of minute hairs as in reticulata. Teg- 

 mina and wings with venation and costal margins ciliate as in reticu- 

 lata, tegmina broadening distinctly distad. Supra-anal plate roughly 

 triangular, length less than half basal width, apex broadly rounded.. 

 Cerci small, slender, with joints bead-like, tapering to acute apex, 

 Subgenital plate with lateral margins weakly convex convergent 

 to styles, which are similar, slender, cylindrical, about four times 

 as long as wide, separated by an interval equalling the length of 

 one of them, the margin of which is transverse. Limbs as in reticu- 

 lata. Cephalic coxa? unarmed, with mere traces of denticulation; 

 Cephalic femora heavy, with dorsal margin straight, unarmed,, 

 unguicular sulcus two-fifths distance from base to apex; four dis- 

 coidal spines, of which the first is minute; four heavy spines on' 

 ventro-external margin, with minute blunt projections on ventral 

 face, a few of which are situated between the more distal of these 

 spines, and with an additional small spine on each genicular lobe; 

 spines of ventro -internal margin showing the following formula 

 ilililililiil, of the longer of which the first and last are decidedly 

 more elongate than the others. Cephalic tibiae with ventral mar- 

 gins bearing (nine to ten) external and (eleven to twelve) internal, 

 rather heavy spines, which increase regularly and gradually iu' 

 length distad. Caudal metatarsus approximately one and one-half 

 times length of succeeding tarsal joints. 



Allotype. — 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Similar to the male, differing in the following features: Size 

 larger, form slightly more robust. Ocelli proportionately not as 

 large. Facial scutellum more transverse, height very slightly more 

 than half basal width. 23 Cephalic coxae with minute, microscopic 

 denticulations, the bases of hairs. Cephalic femora with denticu- 

 lations of ventral surface heavier. Supra-anal plate short, tri- 

 angular in general outline, reaching to base of valves of subgenital 

 plate, dorsal surface convex mesad, angulate concave along margins. 

 Subgenital plate as in this sex of reticulata. 



Both sexes yellowish brown in general coloration,-^ Male im- 

 maculate, except for a dark brown suffusion ventro-distad on the 



" The dorsal margin of the facial scutellum is seen in the series to vary from 

 very weakly convex, as in reticulata, to very broadly obtuse-angulate. 



^^ Probably very pale green in life, as is indicated in several specimens by 

 small areas where the chlorophil has settled in drying. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



cephalic femora, which spreads from the ventral surface over the 

 sides of the adjacent genicular lobes, and cephalic metatarsus also 

 suffused at distal extremity with dark brown. Tegmina and wings 

 transparent, moderately iridescent, clear hyaline. Three of the 

 four males from Mount Makiling have the facial seutellum suffused 

 with dark vinaceous. 



The female, in addition to the dark brown suffusion for the male, 

 has the cephalic coxae ventro-distad showing a large dark brown 

 suffusion, a small similar suffusion on the distal margin of the un- 

 guicular sulcus and traces of the same on the external genicular 

 lobes of the cephalic femora and on the cephalic tibiae mesad on 

 each side and at the base of the metatarsus. The tegminal and 

 wing coloration is described for this sex in the introduction to the 

 species. 



We would note that, except for the heavy dark marking distad 

 on the ventral face of the cephalic femora, all of the darker suffusions 

 found in the sexes of this species probably disappear completely 

 in individuals of recessive coloration. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Greatest 

 Length of Length of Width of Length of (distal) width 

 body. pronotum. pronotxun. tegmen. oftegmen. 



Mt.Ban-AhaoJijpe 16.3 3.8 1.9 15.7 4.3 



Mt. Makiling, para<2/pe.. 16. 3.7 1.9 1.5.3 4.2 



DaYSiO, paratype 15.3 3.3 1.7 13.7 4. 



Bavao, paratype 15.8 3.7 1.9 14.8 4.1 



Zamboanga, paro/?/pfi. . . . 16.3 3.8 1.9 14 7 4.3 



9 

 Mt.Banahao, a/^o/^pe.... 19 4.2 2.4 17.7 5.2 



In addition to the described pair, the following paratypes are 

 before us: 



Mount Makiling, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 4 cT. 



Paete, Laguna, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. 

 Baker), 1 cf . 



Dapitan, Misamis, Island of Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 d^. 



Davao, Davao, Island of Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 2 d". 



Zamboanga, Zamboanga, Island of Mindanao, Philippine Islands, 

 (from C. F. Baker), 1 c^. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Amantis basilana new species. (Plate I, figures 8 and 9.) 



This species is closely related to A. acta here described, differing 

 in the proportionately slightly broader head, with distinctly more 

 transverse facial scutellum, slightly more proximal unguicular 

 sulcus, more decided green coloration^^ and distinctly though deli- 

 cately marked pronotum and cephalic tibiae but immaculate cephalic 

 femora. 



Type. — cf; Island of Basilan, Zamboanga District, Philippine 

 Islands. (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection Type No. 521.] 



Compared with the male of aeta, this individual is seen to differ 

 in the following characters, as well as in important features of colora- 

 tion. Head proportionately distinctly broader. Ocelli smaller and 

 arranged in a much more transverse triangle, almost twice as broad 

 as high. Facial scutellum with height very slightly less than half 

 basal width, dorsal margin weakly convex. Pronotum very similar 

 to that of aeta, except that the medio-longitudinal sulcation is 

 weakly indicated only at the supra-coxal expansion, the feeble 

 carina of the shaft obsolete. Tegmina and wings as in that species, 

 except that the tegmina widen very slightly distad, less so than in 

 aeta. GenitaHa damaged. Armament of femora and tibiae as 

 described for aeta. Caudal metatarsus as in that species. ^^ 



Allotype. — 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Compared with the female of aeta, this specimen is found to 

 agree closely, differing in the following respects, as well as in dis- 

 tinctive features of coloration. Head proportionately distinctly 

 broader. Ocelli smaller and arranged in a much more transverse 

 triangle, fully twice as broad as high. Facial scutellum with height 

 about two-fifths basal width, dorsal margin transverse, scarcely 

 convex. 



Both sexes oriental green in general coloration, the specimens 

 at hand with body faded to yellowish brown. Pronotum with a 

 very narrow but sharply defined medio-longitudinal black line on 

 shaft, extending from base of shaft to near the transverse supra- 

 coxal sulcus, with a minute linear parallel mark of the same color 

 on each side near the caudal margin of the shaft. Cephalic tibiae 

 yellowish, with a large suffusion of blackish brown mesad on the 

 external and dorsal faces and a fleck of the same color at the base 



2^ The green in these dried specimens is pronounced, though they have evi- 

 dently faded considerably in drying from the living coloration. 



2^ Missing in the type, these proportions shown by a paratypic female. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



•of the metatarsus. Cephalic metatarsi with a distal suffusion of 

 blackish brown and, in the male, washed with this color mesad. 

 Genicular areas of median and caudal femora narrowly blackish 

 brown. Tegmina and wings transparent, moderately iridescent, 

 hyaline, tinged weakly but distinctly with oriental green. Stigma 

 of general tegminal coloration. 



The paratypic female at hand shows a recessive type of coloration 

 in having the cephalic tibiae with only traces of the two brown suf- 

 fusions. 



Measurements (in millimeters) 



Length of Length of Width of Length of (distal) width 

 body. pronotuni. pronotuin. tegmen. oftegtneu. 



Island of Basilan, /ype 15 3.8 1.8 13.4 3.5 



9 



Island oiBasilan, allotype. . . 18.7 4.8 2.3 16.9 4 



Island of Basilan, para<(/pe . . 17.9 4.4 2.2 16.3 4 



The single paratypic female at hand bears the same data as the 

 type and allotype. 



Gonypeta borneana Giglio-To.s. 



1915. G[onypeta] borneana Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, 

 p. 155. [cf, Borneo.] 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 2cf . 



The very dark coloration and rough surface are striking features 

 in the present species. 



V. COMPSOMANTINiE 



1st Group, Compsomantes. 



Compsomantis semirufula (Westwood). 



1889. Hapalomantis semirufula Westwood, Rev. Ins. Fam. Mantidarum, 

 p. 37, pi. XIII, fig. 8, pi. I, fig. 1. [cf , 9 ; Sarawak, Borneo.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf . 



Males of the present species might easily be mistaken, at first 

 glance, for representatives of the genus Amantis Giglio-Tos. Closer 

 examination, however, shows the pronotum to be of an entirely 

 different type, and the species to be, in fact, very widely separated 

 from that genus. The superficial similarity of males of these species 

 is even greater than that found between males of Opsomantis tumidi- 

 ceps and those of Amantis, as in males of semirufula a weak but 

 distinct lateral concavity of the pronotal shaft occurs. 



In the male at hand the ocelli are well developed and approxi- 

 mate, the facial scutellum about one-third as high as its basal width. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



with dorsal margin oblique and poorly defined laterad, transverse 

 and carinate between the antennal sockets. The dark brown on 

 the internal face of the cephalic femora is more diffuse and blurred 

 than in Westwood's figure. The caudal metatarsus is as long as 

 the combined length of the three succeeding joints. The genitalia 

 are much like those of Opsomantis tumidiceps, except that the supra- 

 anal plate is slightly less produced, the styles of the subgenital plate 

 longer, fully five times as long as the greatest width, separated 

 by a distance equal to four-fifths the length of one of the styles. 



Length of body 24, length of pronotum 4.8, greatest width of 

 pronotum 2.9, length of tegmen 21, width of tegminal marginal 

 field 1.1, length of caudal femur 6.8, length of caudal metatarsus 

 2.1 mm. 



Opsomantis tiimidiceps (Bolivar). 



1890. Com-psomantis tumidiceps Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Espanola Hist. Nat., 

 XIX, p. 303. [ 9 ; Doloreg, Philippine Islands.] 



Mount Makiling, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 cf. 



Like Compso7nantis semirujula, this species might, at first glance, 

 be mistaken for a member of the genus Amantis, but it is readily 

 distinguished by a number of distinctive characters. 



In the male before us we note that the ocelli are minute and rather 

 widely separated, the facial scutellum distinctly less than half as 

 high as its basal width, with dorsal margin weakly convex- and show- 

 ing slight irregularities. The limbs are all spotted and dotted with 

 dark brown on both internal and external faces, a particularly 

 large dot being situated on the internal face of the cephalic femur 

 at the distal extremity of the unguicular sulcus. The pronotum 

 expands evenly to the portion of greatest width, the lateral margins 

 curving evenly thence to the cephalic extremity, with no trace of 

 concavity anywhere, the margins are entire, without trace of den- 

 ticulation. The caudal metatarsus is scarcely longer than the 

 combined length of the two succeeding joints. The supra-anal 

 plate is evenly rounded, its length slightly less than half its proximal 

 width. The subgenital plate has the lateral portions narrowly 

 turned dorsad, the lateral margins straight convergent; the styles, 

 situated at the narrow extremity and separated by a distance little 

 over the width of one of these, proportionately large, flattened 

 cylindrical, as long as the supra-anal plate, four times as long as 

 the greatest width, with apices rounded. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Length of body 18.3, length of pronotum 5, greatest width of 

 pronotum 2.3, length of tegmen 10, width of tegminal marginal 

 field .9, length of caudal femur 5.3, length of caudal metatarsus 

 1.5 mm. 



IX. Thespin^." 

 1st Group, Euchomenellae. 



Euchomenella heteroptera (Haan). 



1842. M[an(is] {Mantis) heteroptera Haan,^* in Temminck, Verb. Nat. 

 Gesch. Nederlandsche Overseesche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 78, pi. XVIII, 

 fig. 1. [cf ; Banjermassin, [Borneo]; Java; Tondano, Celebes.] 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 cf. 



The present specimen agrees exactly with Haan's figure. We 

 would note that the markings of the triannulate cephalic femora 

 are exactly the same on the external and internal faces and that 

 the wings are decidedly iridescent. 



Euchomenella molucarum (Saussure). 



1872. E[uchomena] molucarum Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, p. 27. [cf, 



Molucca.s.] 

 1895. Euchomena molucarum Saussure and Zehntner, in Grandidier, Hist. 

 Nat. Madagascar, XXIII, p. 179. [ 9 , Java.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf . 



This specimen agrees perfectly as to pronotal size and expansion 

 with Saussure's figure, but not with the dimensions given in his 

 description for this part. Compared with the male of E. heteroptera 

 before us, the present insect is seen to differ in its smaller size, weakly 

 maculate pronotum and tegmina,'-^ cephalic tibiae which are as 

 dark as the pronotum, slightly blackened internally at their ex- 

 tremities and cephalic femora which are as dark externally, with a 

 few irregular areas of paler shade toward the ventral margin, but 

 which internally are brownish buff, mottled with dark brown proxi- 

 mad, heavily mesad, with a broad blackish annulus meso-distad, 

 succeeded by a narrow pregenicular blackish annulus. 



2^ This name falls, as Thespis, properly defined, is a member of the group 

 Musonise, which we believe best assigned to the subfamily Iridopteryginae 

 (not as understood by Giglio-Tos). We are not satisfied that this ninth division 

 of Giglio-Tos is homogeneous or that it is worthy of recognition as a subfamily. 

 We consequently do not propose a new name to take the place of the Thespina; 

 of Giglio-Tos. 



^* The female described and figured as this species, p. 78, pi. XVIII, fig. 2, 

 represents a different species. 



-^ The tegmina are well described by Saussure as " Membraneux, d'un brun- 

 ferrugineux nuageux, marbres de taches plus hyalines." 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



TAGALOMANTIS^o new genus. (Plate I, figure 10.) 



We place in this genus the single species described by Saussure 

 as Euchomena manillensis and referred by Giglio-Tos, apparently 

 without having material for comparison, to his genus EuchomeneUa. 

 To that genus nearest affinity is shown, Tagalomantis differing in 

 the following features : 



Form much less attenuate, slender. Eyes smaller and not re- 

 markably protuberant. Pronotum with medio -longitudinal carina 

 very weak. Limbs slender, but not as exceedingly slender as in- 

 EuchomeneUa. Cephalic femora with four discoidal spines, of which 

 the third is very elongate, but not proportionately as extremely 

 elongate as in EuchomeneUa. Ventro-external margin of cephalic 

 femora armed with four elongate spines and one small spine on 

 genicular lobe; ventro-internal margin showing the following spine 

 formula ililililililiiil (for EuchomeneUa ilililililiiiil). Cephalic 

 tibiae with ventro-external margin armed, except for a brief distance 

 proximad, with twelve spines, which increase gradually in size- 

 distad, the proximal spines very small. 



Tagalomantis manillensis (Saussure) . 



1870. E[uchomena] maniUensis Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 194, pi. VI, 

 fig. 44. [cf ; Manila, [Philippine Islands].] 



Los Banos, Laguna, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 d^. 



This specimen is apparently slightly smaller than the type, but 

 agrees fully in all important features with Saussure's description. 



We would note that the limbs are pale brown, the cephalic coxse 

 showing, on their external surfaces, two slightly paler indistinct 

 transverse bands and having their apices suffused with dark brown 

 internally. In the present specimen the cephalic femora have the 

 discoidal spines and the longer spines of the ventro-internal margin 

 dark brown. Length of body 50, length of pronotum 18.7, length 

 of collar 3.8, greatest width of pronotum 2.6, length of tegmen 27.8,. 

 width of tegminal marginal field L8, length of cephalic femur 11 mm. 



IX. Oligonicin^. 

 2d Group, Haaniae. 



Haania lobiceps (Haan). 



1842. M[aniis] (Oxypilus) lobiceps Haan, in Temminck, Verb. Nat. Gesch. 

 Nederlandsche Oversee.sche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 85, pi. XVII, figs. 4 

 and 5. [Juv. and 9 (nee 9 and cf); Padang, [Sumatra]; Krawang, 

 [Java].] 



3" The Ta-Gala are the most civilized native race of the Philippines. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



I 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9. 

 Gigho-Tos has recently cleared away the confusion surrounding 

 this very remarkable little species." 



XVI. Caliridin^. 



1st Group, Calirides. 

 Caliris masoni (Westwood). 



1889. 7ns masoni Westwood, Rev. Ins. Fam. Mantidarum, p. 32, pi. I, 

 fig. 6. [9, India.] 



Khasia Hills, Assam (?), 1 9 . 



From comparison with the female of C. elegans Giglio-Tos, before 

 us, we believe that either one exceedingly plastic species may be rep- 

 resented, or that elegans may prove to be a depauperate race of masoni. 

 Additional material is needed to solve this problem. 



The present specimen is larger than the measurements given by 

 Westwood, almost the exact size of his figure. It has the marking 

 of the radiate field more extensive and more striate caudad. 



Length of body 40., length of pronotum 11.3, greatest pronotal 

 width 4.8, least pronotal width 3., length of tegmen 22.7, width of 

 tegminal marginal field 2.1, length of cephalic femur 12.4 mm. 



Caliris elegans Giglio Tos. 



1915. C[al^r^s^ elegans Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, p. 82. 

 I 9 ; Deli, Sumatra.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf, 1 9. 



We find the present female smaller than the type, even smaller 

 than the measurements given by Giglio-Tos for his C. elegans from 

 Sumatra. In the present female, however, the distal subcallous 

 areas of the tegmina and the beautiful markings of the wings are 

 as shown by Westwood 's generally excellent figure. As to the distal 

 obliquity of the humeral and median veins described for elegans, 

 the same is true for the present female, and we believe will be found 

 the same in the type of masoni, the figure being probably inexact 

 in this feature. 



The male sex being unknown for the genus and species, we would 

 remark the following features: 



General form similar to but more slender than that of female, 

 armament of cephalic limbs exactly the same. Ocelli slightly larger. 

 Facial scutellum generally similar to that of female, but very slightly 

 broader, dorsal margin acute angulate mesad. Tegmina and wings 



" Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, p. 198, (1915). 




40 , PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



narrower than in female, but with similar venation; coloration 

 transparent, with a very weak greenish tinge, veins very pale green- 

 ish. Subopaque or subcallous areas of tegmina and striking mark- 

 ings of wings not present in this sex. Supra-anal plate strongly 

 transverse, length hardly one-third basal width; lateral margins 

 nearly straight and strongly convergent from above cereal bases to 

 broadly truncate apex. Subgenital plate flattened scoop-shaped, 

 lateral margins weakly convex convergent, rounding distad into 

 the broadly convex apex; dextral portion elevated dorsad from base 

 of cercus to dextral style in a low ridge with dorsal margin broadl}*^ 

 convex. Styles minute, simple, cylindrical, each about three times 

 as long as wide, separated by a distance equalling about two -fifths 

 the length of the style. 



Though so utterly different in tegminal and wing coloration, the 

 sexes of this species are easily associated by the similarity of cephalic 

 and pronotal form and limb armament. 



Length of body, d" 26.2, 9 30; length of pronotum, c^ 6.8, 9 7.9; 

 greatest pronotal width, d^ 2.9, 9 3.5; least pronotal width, cf 2.1, 

 9 2.7; length of tegmen, cf 18, 9 17.3; width of tegminal marginal 

 field, cf 1.6, 9 1.9; length of cephahc femur, cf 7.2, 9 9 mm. 



Gilda suavis Ciiglio-Tos. 



1915. Giilda] suavis Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, p. 85. 

 [ 9 ; Limbang, Borneo.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9. 



The female sex of this species is even more beautiful than that 

 of Caliris masoni. The present specimen is a trifle smaller than 

 the type, agreeing fully in all details of coloration. 



We would note that, in the material at hand, the cephalic tibiae 

 have the ventro-internal margin supplied with thirteen spines in 

 Gilda and with fourteen in Caliris, not including the terminal claw. 

 This claw was either counted by Giglio-Tos for Caliris, or his ma- 

 terial of that genus shows one more soine on the margin in question. 



In Gilda the pronotum is longer, with shaft proportionately more 



slender and supra-coxal expansion much l)roader and consequently 



very much more conspicuous than in Caliris. In the present female 



'the pronotum shows the following dimensions: length 13.3, greatest 



width 4, least width 1.8 mm. 



3d Group, Leptomantes. 



Leptomantis albella (Burmeister) . 



1838. M[antis] albella Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, pt. I, p. 533. 



[Java.] 

 1915. Leptomantis sumatrana Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, 



p. 88. [cf , Sumatra.] 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



After careful consideration of the literature and the material of 

 this genus before us, we feel fully justified in placing sumalrana 

 Giglio-Tos in synonymy. A possibility exists that the name should 

 be placed under L. fragilis (Westwood), but due to the inadequacy 

 of the original three-line description of sumatrana, this can be deter- 

 mined definitely only by examination of the type or further knowl- 

 edge gleaned from Sumatran material. 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 cT, 2 9. 



Samarang, Jav^a, November, 1909, (E. Jacobson), 1 cf , [Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia]. 



It is clear that the species of the genus are closely related, and 

 particularly albella and fragilis. When compared with fragilis, the 

 present insect is seen to differ in the male sex as follows. Inter- 

 rupted dark line margining pronotum and mesal pair of dots nor- 

 mally very weakly indicated, in discolored specimens sometimes 

 obsolete.^- Tegmina wholly immaculate. Supra-anal plate tri- 

 angular with apex rounded, decidedly shorter than proximal width. 

 Cerci tapering distad to slender apices. 



Unfortunately lack of female material of fragilis prevents com- 

 parison for that sex. Females of albella are readily separable from 

 those of L. lactea (Saussure) by the distinctly narrower marginal 

 field of the tegmina (.8 mm. in width), while those before us are 

 smaller than the female of lactea at hand (length of pronotum 11.4 

 and 12 mm.) with tegmina very weakly milky, except latero-proxi- 

 mad where they are weakly milky, in marginal field where they 

 are translucent, milky and distal portions of marginal fields of 

 tegmina and wings where they are buffy and almost opar^ue.^^ 



Leptomantis fragilis (Westwood). 



1889. Mumitia fragilis Westwood, Rev. Ins. Fam. Mantida/rum, p. 31. 



[[cf]; Sarawak, Borneo.] 

 1889. Musonia bilineata Westwood, Rev. Ins. Fam. Mantidarum, p. 32. 



[[ 9 ]; Sarawak, Borneo.] 



It is extremely probable that Westwood described sexes as indi- 

 cated in the above synonymy. The male was apparently a dis- 

 colored specimen, as the usual striking features of pronotal colora- 

 tion are not mentioned in the description. 



'2 Burmeister's type was in such condition, or this feature was either naturally 

 obsolete or wholly overlooked. 



3' Compare Saussure's comments on a Javanese female, at the time he placed 

 .his lactea under albella, Melang. Orth., II, p. 72, (1872). 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^. 



Giglio-Tos' reason for assigning hiUneata to synonymy under lactea 

 and then describing a new species, sumatrana, is certainly not clear. 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf • 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 3 cf . 



When compared with alhella, males of fragilis are seen to agree 

 closely, differing from those of that species only as follows. Inter- 

 rupted dark line margining pronotum and mesal pair of dots nor- 

 mally well defined, particularly on the collar.^^- Tegmina and wings 

 distad with outer portion of marginal field almost opaque and strik- 

 ingly buffy or reddish. Supra-anal plate triangular with apex 

 acute, length slightly greater than proximal width. Cerci shorter, 

 distal joint flattened \vith apex rounded, slightly broader than the- 

 preceding joints. 



We regret that no females of this species are before us. 



Leptomantis lactea (Saussure). 



1870. M{iopterijx] lactea Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 274. [9 ; Manila,. 

 Philippine Islands.] 



Mount Makiling, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F.. 

 Baker), 1 9. 



The specimen at hand has the body much discolored and shows; 

 no dark markings on the pronotum, as did specimens in Saussure's- 

 series, other than the type. Such a condition would appear to 

 occur also in albella and fragilis. The specimen under considera- 

 tion is slightly larger than Saussure's type, in other respects agreeing 

 fully. The tegmina and wings are weakly milky, the outer portion, 

 of the marginal fields distad being slightly more 80.^= When com- 

 pared with females of alhella, the present female is seen to be larger 

 with pronotum distinctly heavier, its lateral margins minutely but 

 distinctly denticulate, not smooth as in that species. The measure- 

 ments of this specimen are: length of body 35, length of pronotum 

 13, least width of pronotum 1.3, length of tegmen 21, width of teg- 

 minal marginal field 1.2, length of exposed portion of wings when at 

 rest 4.7, length of cephalic femur 7.8 mm. 



Leptomantis tonkinse new species. (Plate I, figures 11 and 12.) 



This species is apparently nearest L. indica Giglio-Tos, but so 

 poorly is that species characterized that the degree of affinity can 

 not be satisfactorily determined. 



'^ Apparently these markings are sometimes absent, possibly due to dis- 

 coloration. Westwood makes no mention of this feature in describing the type 

 of fragilis, but describes it in full for the type of bilineata. 



'^ See additional remarks under albella. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43" 



The marking of the pronotum and cephalic coxae are distinctive 

 features in tonkin(r. It is nearer lactea than albella or fragilis, 

 agreeing with the female of lactea before us in the heavier pronotum 

 with lateral margins serrulate, wider marginal field of the tegmina 

 and heavily milky tegmina and wings. The pronotum is, indeed, 

 slightly heavier and the tegmina and wings very much more heavily 

 milky than in lactea. 



Type.— 9 ; Than-Moi, Tonkin. June and July. (From H. 

 Fruhstorfer.) [Hebard Collection Type No. 523.] 



Size large for the genus, form very slender but not as slender as^ 

 in females of albella. Summit of vertex raised above dorsal margins 

 of eyes a brief distance, straight, transverse to brief areas on each 

 side adjacent to eyes, which are convex and project very slightly. 

 Ocelli very small, well separated, forming a triangle nearly twice 

 as broad as high. Facial scutellum poorly defined, strongly trans- 

 verse, dorsal margin convex in median portion. Pronotum very 

 elongate and slender but slightly heavier than in this sex of lactea, 

 decidedly heavier than in females of albella, lateral margins minutely 

 serrulate, supra -coxal expansion very weak, transverse sulcus dis- 

 tinct. Tegmina with venation as characteristic for genus, falling 

 considerably short of apices of wings (by 5 mm.), marginal field 

 comparatively broad (1.6 mm. in width). Cerci hairy, tapering 

 to acute apices. Supra-anal plate can not be examined without 

 injury to type. Cephalic femora with four discoidal spines, of 

 which the first two are rather closely placed and nearly opposite- 

 each other transversely on the ventral surface, the first being on 

 the internal margin just before the unguicular sulcus;^* ventro- 

 external margin with four elongate spines and all genicular lobes 

 with a small spine; ventro-internal margin with the following for- 

 mula ilililililiiil, of which all the longer spines in the alternating 

 series slant inward and distad to some degree. Cephalic tibiae 

 with ventro-external margin armed with seven spines, of which the 

 first is placed at a distance from the second, this equalling twice the 

 interval between the second and third, the remaining intervals 

 brief; first, third, fourth and sixth spines small, second and fifth 

 of about double that size and length, seventh and apical spine de- 

 cidedly the heaviest and longest. Caudal metatarsus twice length 

 of succeeding joints. 



^* On one limb a single very small spine is found on the ventro-internal margin, 

 before the first discoidal spine. This is apparently an abnormality. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



General coloration apparently pale green in life (the head, pro- 

 notum and caudal limbs have faded to yellowish brown). Pro- 

 notum with a pair of delicate lines, formed by a succession of blackish 

 brown dots, margining the medio-longitudinal carina of the shaft, 

 with more extensive blackish brown maculations forming a dis- 

 tinctive pattern on supra-coxal expansion and neck (see Plate I, 

 figure 11). Cephalic coxae with ventral surface narrowly bordered 

 for a brief distance distad along internal margin with blackish brown 

 and with a fleck of the same color meso-distad. Body and limbs 

 elsewhere entirely immaculate. Tegmina and wings^' heavily milky, 

 so that when at rest they are actually transparent only distad, in 

 other portions almost opaque; veinlets pale green; marginal fields 

 distad, in portion between marginal and mediastine veins, opaque, 

 milky. 



Length of body 35, length of pronotum 12.2, greatest width of 

 pronotum 2.2, least width of pronotal shaft 1.7, length of tegmen 

 23, width of tegminal marginal field 1.6, length of cephalic femur 

 8.1, length of caudal femur 9, length of caudal metatarsus 2.4 mm. 



The type of this striking species is unique. 



AETAELLA« new genus. 



The present genus is very closely related to Leptomantis Giglio- 

 Tos.^'* We find these genera to agree closely, except in characters 

 of the armament of the cephalic femora and tibiae. In both genera 

 the spines of these margins are strongly developed, the number 

 and proportions constant ;^^ for the cephalic femora the discoidal 

 spines are four in number, of which the first two are rather closely 

 placed and nearly opposite each other transversely on the ventral 

 surface, the first being on the internal margin just before the un- 

 guicular sulcus; the ventro-external margin with four elongate 

 spines and all genicular lobes with a minute but elongate spine. 



Genus monotypic. Genotype. — Aetaella bakeri here described. 



3' The form of the tegmina and wings when at rest, with apices of the latter 

 considerably surpassing those of the former, and the distal, marginal, more strongly 

 colored areas along the costal margin, gives the species before us of the genera 

 Xanthomantis, Polyacanthopus, Leptomantis and Aetaella a distinctive and rather 

 similar general facies, suggesting that shown by species of the Neuropteroid 

 genus Mantispa. 



'* From Aeta+ella. The Aetas, or Negritos, are the aborigines of the PhiU 

 ippines. 



3' Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVI, p. 87, (1915). 



" Except for the smallest distal spines of the ventro-internal margin of the 

 cephalic femora, which in Aetaella individually vary from three to five. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



The features which separate AetaeIJa from Leptomantis are given 

 below for the two genera. 



In Leptomantis the ventre -internal margin of the cephalic femora 

 shows the following formula, ilililililiiil. The cephalic tibiae 

 have the yentro-external margin armed with seven spines, the first 

 separated a considerable distance from the second, the second a 

 lesser distance from the third, the others separated by very brief 

 intervals. The first spine is elongate, the second much more so, 

 the third and fourth of about the same length, shorter than the first, 

 the fifth intermediate in length between the first and second, the 

 sixth shorter, intermediate in length between the fourth and fifth, 

 the seventh very elongate, it and the second the longest spines of 

 the series. The cephalic tibiae have the ventro-internal margin 

 armed with eleven to twelve spines. 



In Aetaella the ventro-internal margin of the cephalic femora 

 shows the following formula, ilililililililiiiil. The cephalic tibiae 

 have the ventro-external margin armed with six spines, the place- 

 ment similar to that in Leptomantis, except that the distal spines 

 are not so closely placed. The first spine is elongate, the second 

 more so, the third shorter than the first, the fourth as long as the 

 first, the fifth as long as the third, the sixth slightly longer than 

 the second. The cephalic tibiae have the ventro-internal margin 

 armed with thirteen to fifteen spines. 



We would note further that in Aetaella the tegmina do not widen 

 distad as much as in Leptomantis and, in consequence, the oblique 

 veins are not quite as widely separated. 



Aetaella bakeri^i new sijecies. (Plate I, flgiires 1.3 and 14.) 



In general appearance and form this species agrees closely wnth 

 Leptomantis albella (Burmeister). In addition to the striking differ- 

 ences of cephalic limb armament, the tegmina of this insect are 

 seen to be somewhat narrower in both sexes, with oblique veins 

 consequently slightly more approximate. 



The males of A . bakeri have the moderately large ocelli arranged 

 in a triangle slightly wider than high, while the males of L. albella 

 have the slightly larger ocelli arranged in a triangle slightly higher 

 than wide. In the females of both species the ocelli are greatly 

 reduced and arranged in a triangle wider than high. The tegmina 

 and wings are clear hyahne in A. bakeri, but show a slight milky 

 suffusion in L. albella. 



^^ We take pleasure in naming this interesting Mantid in honor of Mr. C. F. 

 Baker, through whose efforts a large portion of the material at present under 

 consideration has been assembled. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Type. — cf ; Mount Makiling, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands. 

 (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection Type No. 522.] 



Size medium small, form extremely slender, as in L. albella. Head 

 transverse, summit of occiput transverse and on a plane with dorsal 

 margin of eyes, except briefly near the eyes, where, on each side, it 

 is moderately produced and convex. Ocelli as described above. 

 Facial scutellum strongly transverse, height one-fourth width, dorsal 

 margin rather broadly convex. Pronotum very elongate and slender, 

 margins unarmed, dorsal surface smooth, a trace of medio-longi- 

 tudinal sulcation indicated in area of supra-coxal expansion, trans- 

 verse sulcus there well defined, supra-coxal expansion feeble. The 

 tegminal apices fall slightly short of the abdominal apex, the wing 

 apices fall slightly beyond the abdominal apex; the venation of these 

 organs is similar to that found in L. albella, the tegmina are, how- 

 ever, slightly narrower and are surpassed by the wings by a lesser 

 distance. Supra-anal plate minute, length half basal width, lateral 

 margins convergent to the broadly rounded apex. Cerci elongate, 

 tapering to acute apices, each joint rounded with greatest width 

 near distal extremity. Subgenital plate with lateral margins convex- 

 convergent only distad, styles slender and cylindrical, about four 

 times as long as wide, separated by a distance equalling the length 

 of one of the styles. Cephalic femora with unguicular sulcus mesad, 

 with a circular concavity between the first two spines of the ventro- 

 external margin, into which fits the apex of the terminal spine of 

 the ventro-external margin of the cephalic tibia when these parts 

 are flexed, ventral surface with a cluster of minute sharp teeth 

 opposite the second spine of the ventro-external margin. Arma- 

 ment of limbs as given in generic diagnosis. Caudal metatarsus 

 nearly twice as long as combined length of succeeding joints. 



Allotype. — 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Agrees with male in all but the following features. Size larger. 

 Ocelli much smaller and arranged in a triangle which is considerably 

 wider than high. Supra-anal plate with length slightly less than 

 half basal width, triangular, with apex broadly rounded. Sub- 

 genital plate with valves of distal portion evenly convex dorsad 

 and ventrad. 



General coloration delicate green in life.*'- Entire insect immacu- 

 late. Tegmina and wings transparent, iridescent, clear hyaline.*^ 



*2 The majority of the specimens of the present series have faded to yellowish 

 brown. 



^' In the specimens before us in which the coloration apparently shows the 

 •'best preservation, these organs are faintly tinged with green, the veins green. 

 In the others of the series all trace of green has disappeared, the veins being 

 ;yeIIowish brown. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Measurements (in millimeters) 



Greatest 

 cf Length of Length of width of Length of Width of 



body. 



Mt. Makiling, type 27 



Malinao, paratype 27.2 



Dapitan, paratype 



Sandakan, Borneo 25 



9 



Mt.Msi]d\m%, allotype. . 31 



Los Banos, paratype. ... 31 



Los Banos, paratype. ... 33.5 



In addition to the type and allotype, the following material is 

 before us, of which we consider the Philippine specimens para- 

 typic. 



Mount Makiling, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker). 2 d'. 



Malinao, Tayabas, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 d" . 



Los Banos, Laguna, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 2 9. 



Dapitan, Zamboanga, Island of Mindanao, Philippine Islands, 

 '(fromC. F. Baker), 1 d'. 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 <^. 



XXI. Deroplatin^. 

 1st Group, Deroplates. 



Deroplatys desiccata Westwood. 



1839. Deroplatys desiccata Westwood, Mod. Classif. Ins., I, p. 430. [Ma- 

 lacca.] 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 4 d^, 1 9 . 

 Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C, F. Baker), 1 9 . 



Deroplatys truncata (Guerin). 



1843. Choeradodis truncata Guerin, in Delessert, Souv. Voyage Inde, Hist» 

 Nat., p. 65, pi. XV. [[ 9 ]; Singapore, Malay Peninsula.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d^, 1 9 . 



XXII. Mantin^. 

 2d Group, Sphodropod^e. 



•Sphodropoda tristis (Saussure). 



1870. M[antis] tristis Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 241. [ 9 ; Islands 

 of Viti [ = Fiji Islands].] 



Townsville, Queensland, Australia, 1 9 . 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb,,. 



Queensland, Australia, 2 cf . 



This species is now known to have a wide distribution over the 

 Australian continent. 



Sphodropoda quinquedens (MacLeay). 



1827. Mantis quinquedens MacLeay, King's Survey Intertrop. Coasts 

 Australia, II, p. 4.54. [Northern and western coasts of Australia.] 



Queensland, Australia, 1 9 . 



The striking sculpture and coloration of the internal faces of the 

 cephalic femora, which bear four buffy, elevated, transverse lines 

 on the otherwise glossy ochraceous -tawny surface, are distinctive 

 features in this species. 



11th Group, Mante.s. 



Statilia maculata (Thunberg and Lundahl). 



1784. M[a)Uis] maculata Thunberg and Lundahl, Dissert. Ent. Novas 



Ins. Spec, pt. Ill, p. 61. [Japan.] 

 1912. S[tatilia\ haanii var. hyalina GigHo-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, 



XLIII, p. 7. [Japan.] 



We can not agree with Giglio-Tos in recognizing the species here 

 considered as S. haanii (Saussure). Among the Japanese Mantidae, 

 Thunberg and Lundahl's description of maculata fits this species 

 and this species only.''^ Their statement "thorace alato spinuloso" 

 we interpret to mean that the spinulse along the lateral margins^ 

 of the pronotum project outward, as indeed they do. Saussure's 

 haanii has long, and properly, been placed in synonymy under 

 maculata. 



Giglio-Tos has proposed the name hyalina for a specimen evi- 

 dently showing an extremely recessive coloration. We therefore 

 place this name in the present synonymy as having no systematic 

 value. 



Khasia Hills, Assam, 1 9 . 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 4 c?', 6 9 • 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 2 cf . 



Obi Island, Moluccas, 2 cf . 



All of the specimens here recorded show the characteristic mark- 

 ings of the cephalic coxae and femora. In the series the extremes 

 of pronotal length are: cf 12.8 to 14.2, 9 14.8 to 17.3; the extremes 

 of greatest pronotal width, cf^ 3.1 to 3.7, 9 4 to 4.9 mm. 



statilia nemoralis (Saussure). 



1870. Pseudomantis nemoralis Saussure, Mitt. Schweizer Ent. Ges. Ill, 

 p. 229. [ 9 ; Manila, [Philippine Islands].] 



^'' A large Japanese series of the .species, in the Academy and Hebard Collec- 

 tions, is before us. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Island of Basilan, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, 

 (from C. F. Baker), 1 d", 1 9. 



Mt. Makiling, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. 

 Baker), 2 c^. 



Los Banos, Laguna, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 cf . 



Society Islands, 1 cf • 



This species is very closely related to maculata. The specimens 

 at hand are all smaller, with cephalic femora very slightly but ap- 

 preciably more slender than any examples in the large series of 

 maculata before us. In addition, all but one entirely lack a black 

 transverse line bordering the unguicular sulcus distad. 



The black markings of the cephalic coxse and femora are shown 

 by the present material to be extremely variable. In the Philippine 

 specimens the cephalic coxae are black proximad on their internal 

 faces for a distance equalling about one-fourth their length, the 

 adjacent portions of the prosternum dark, the femora without 

 marking at the unguicular sulcus, with bases of ventro-internal 

 spines maculate w^ith black, the surface of the limb above these 

 markings pale. 



The Basilan male is marked as is characteristic for maculata, 

 but with entire ventral surface of prosternum suffused. The Basilan 

 female is a very dark individual, but shows the same black mark- 

 ings as the Philippine males; in this individual the pale area above 

 the ventro-internal spines of the cephalic femora being very con- 

 spicuous and in sharp contrast with the dark general coloration. 



The Society Islands male has the cephalic coxse black proximad 

 on their internal faces for a distance equal to about one-half their 

 length, the prosternum immaculate, the femora with half of area 

 proximad of unguicular sulcus black, with bases of ventro-internal 

 spines blackish. 



Measurements (in millimeters) 



Greatest Length of 



Length of Length of width of Length of caudal Width of 

 body. pronotiim. pronotiun. tegmen. femtir. caudal 



Island of Basilan 34.8 10.6 2.3 22.8 10.1 1.3 



Los Banos, Luzon 40. .5 12.3 2.7 24.9 11.3 1.2 



Mt. Makiling, Luzon.. 36 9.9 2.4 21.7 8.8 1 



Mt. Makiling, Luzon.. 40.5 12.3 2.7 25.6 11.3 1.3 



Society Islands 30.8 9.7 2.3 22.7 9.2 1.2 



? 



Island of Basilan 42.7 14.5 3.8 23.2 13.5 1.8 



Samarang, Java^s 33 n g 32 29.2 11.7 1.8 



^^ In the Academy collection. Recorded by Rehn, Notes Leyden Mus. XXXV, 

 p. 123, (1912). The female from Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra, referred 

 at that time to nemoralis, we assign to maculata, as originally recorded by Rehn, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, p. 704, (1903). 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



12th Group, Tenoder^. 

 Tenodera" aridifolia (Stoll). 



1813. [Mantis] aridifolia Stoll, Natuur. Afbeeld. Beschr. Spooken, etc., 

 pp. 65, 78, pi. XXII, fig. 82. [East Indies.] 



Khasia Hills, Assam, 1 9 . 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 c^, 1 9. 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 1 d^, 2 9. 



Davao, Davao, Mindanao, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d^. 



Society Islands, 1 cf. 



The specimens from Labuan are decidedly larger than the others 

 of the present series. 



We would note that the proportionate difference between the 

 length of the shaft (metazona) of the pronotum and the cephalic 

 coxae for the present species and sinensis (Saussure) is e.xaggerated 

 in Giglio-Tos' key.^^ In both species the pronotal shaft is dis- 

 tinctly longer than the cephalic coxa, the degree averaging only 

 slightly greater in aridifolia. 



We find that sinensis is proportionately a heavier insect, with 

 pronotum distinctly shorter and broader. In a large series of 

 Japanese material of that species in the Philadelphia Collections, 

 we find that the width of the tegminal marginal field varies in the 

 females from 3.9 to 4.5 mm. 



In the females of aridifolia at hand, the width of the tegminal 

 marginal field is narrower, varying as follows: Khasia Hills, Assam, 

 3.8; Trong, Siam, 2.9 and 3.3; Singapore, Malay Peninsula, 2.7; 

 Goenong Soegi, Sumatra, 2.6; Labuan, Borneo, 2.4 and 2.6 mm. 

 This material would appear to indicate a gradual reduction in the 

 width of this field in material of the present species from conti- 

 nental Asia eastward through the Malayan Regions. 



*^ The type of Paratetiodera Rehn is sinensis, as originally designated by that 

 author (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1903, p. 70.5, (1903)), not aridifolia as 

 later designated by Giglio-Tos (Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana XLIII, p. 33, (1911)). 

 From the study of the considerable number of species now before us in the Phila- 

 delphia Collections, we believe that but one genus is represented in the regions 

 under consideration and follow Giglio-Tos in placing Paratenodera Rehn in 

 synonymy under Tenodera Burmeister, of which the genotype is fasciata (Olivier) 

 - atlenuata (Stoll). 



Though sinensis Saussure and atlenuata (Stoll) differ so widely in form and 

 general appearance, australasice (Leach) is seen to be an almost intermediate 

 type, while no combination of characters to divide the Asiatic species can be 

 found, sufficient to warrant generic separation. 



4" Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLIII, n. 33, (1911). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. • 51 



Tenodera attenuata (Stoll). 



1792. Mantis fasciata Olivier, Encycl. Method., VII, p. 640, No. 6. [[<f], 



"Surinam."] 

 1813. [Mantis] attenuata Stoll, Natuur. Abfeeld. Beschr. Spooken, etc., 



pp. 13, 79, pi. V, fig. 16. [[cf ], "Surinam."] 



We find Kirby, Giglio-Tos and others to be in error in using fas- 

 ciata (Olivier) as the name for this species. This is due to the fact 

 that the MariHs fasciata OUvier in question is preoccupied by Mantis 

 fasciata Thunberg, 1815, and by Mantis fasciata OUvier, 1792, 

 Encycl. Method., VII, p. 640, No. 4. 



Samarang, Java, July and August, 1909, (E. Jacobson), 2 cf,** 

 [Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.] 



Tenodera blanchardi Giglio-Tos. 



1911. T[e7iodera] blanchardi Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLIII, 

 p. 46. [d', 9 ; Stephansort, German Xew Guinea; Bukana, Gulf of 

 Huon, New Guinea; Ralum, Bismarck Archipelago; Cape York, Torres 

 Strait, [Queensland, Australia]; Port Darwin, [North Australia]; Ternate 

 [Gilolo Island, and Island of] Amboina]. 



Obi Island, Moluccas, 9 d^, 9 9 . 



Moluccas, (Griolet), 1 9 , from Saussure, labelled super stitiosa, 

 [Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.] 



Amboina, 2 cf, 2 9, [Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia.] 



Mesopteryx alata Saussure. 



1870. M[esopter]fx] alata Saussure, Mittheil. Schweizer Ent. Gesellsch., 

 Ill, p. 23.5. [ 9 ; Manila, [Philippine Islands].] 



Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf • 

 As the male sex of this interesting species was previously unknown, 

 we note the following features. Lateral margins of pronotum, 

 dorsad and ventrad, show a series of very minute black dots. Teg- 

 mina reach slightly beyond apex of fifth dorsal abdominal segment. 

 Distal portion of abdomen damaged. Length of body 87, length 

 of pronotum 29.4, length of pronotal shaft 24, greatest pronotal 

 width 4, least width of pronotal shaft 3.8, length of tegmen 43.6, 

 width of tegminal marginal field 2.7, length of cephalic femur 15.9, 

 length of median femur 16.2, length of caudal femur 21.2 mm. 



13th Group, Hierodul^. 



Giglio-Tos has divided this complex group into three categories: 

 "the first African, including Sphodromantis and its allies; the second 

 Asiatic and Oriental, including Hierodula and its allies; the third 



*^ Recorded by Rehn as T. superstitiosa (Fabricius), Notes from Leyden Mus., 

 XXXV, p. 124, (1912). 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Melanesian and Australian, including his new genus Parhierodula 

 and its allies. 



It is the last two categories with which we have particularly to 

 deal and, from the material before us, we feel fully justified in re- 

 pudiating the arrangement made by Giglio-Tos. 



The insurmountable difficulty in that author's argument lies in 

 the fact that, were we to accept the character of smoothness or 

 serration of the costal margins of the tegmina as primarily impor- 

 tant, we would give this feature far more weight than is its due. 

 We consider this feature of probably a physiologic application and 

 by no means as important for generic separation as the great pro- 

 notal . expansion found in the forms which, in the past, were all 

 assigned to Rhombodera. This different pronotal expansion is clearly 

 a somatic character. It is found in the immature stages. The 

 tegminal features are found in the adult condition only and for that 

 reason we feel obliged to consider them of secondary value.''^ 



We therefore place Parhierodula Giglio-Tos under Hierodula 

 Burmeister, and Rhomhoderula^° Giglio-Tos, described as a subgenus 

 of Parhierodula, under Rhofubodera Burmeister. These two units 

 as recognized by Giglio-Tos, Parhierodula and Rhomboderula, may 

 not even stand as subgenera, based only on the different character 

 of the costal margins of the tegmina. 



Using the same argument, when we consider the African species 

 of the Hierodulse, we find that Giglio-Tos' subgenus Rhomboderella, 

 of the genus Sphodromantis Stal, represents a valid generic unit. 



Though the relative values of the character of the tegminal mar- 

 gins or the pronotal development afford full justification for such 

 action, the material at hand shows further necessity for the present 

 adjustment. Several species before us, some with costal margins 

 of the tegmina smooth, others with these margins serrulate, unques- 

 tionably belong not only to the same genus, but also to the same 

 species group within the genus. The general facies and sum total 

 of characters in these is much too close to be ascribable to converg- 

 ence in two different genera, as Giglio-Tos, using his classification, 

 would be forced to assume. Thus Hierodula laevicollis Saussure 

 and Hierodula sorongana (Giglio-Tos) are species of close affinity, 



^* Indeed Giglio-Tos himself evidently was obliged at times to switch to this 

 point of view, for otherwise he would have no grounds for erecting the related 

 genus Pnigomanlis. 



^^ We here select Rhomboderula [Rhomhodera] saussurei (Kirby) as genotype 

 of Rhomboderula Giglio-Tos. For a discussion of the species which Giglio-Tos 

 assigned to his Rhomboderula, see page 00. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



representing a group within the genus of more recent common 

 ancestry. To this same group belongs Hierodula ohiensis, described 

 in the present paper. Here we have two species with costal margins 

 of tegmina smooth and one (sorongana) with these margins dis- 

 tinctly serrulate. Again Hierodula venosa (Olivier) and Hierodula 

 vitrea (StoU) are referable to another similar group, though venosa 

 has the costal margins of the tegmina smooth, vitrea showing these 

 margins varying individually from very weakly to distinctly serru- 

 late, as has been noted by Giglio-Tos. In this latter species we 

 further see that the degree of serrulation of the tegminal margins 

 is variable, even within a species unit. 



In the majority of cases the Asiatic and Malayan forms have 

 the tegmina with costal margins smooth, the Papuan and Australian 

 forms having these margins serrulate, ^^ but this interesting feature, 

 probably phj^siologic as we have stated, is by no means as absolute 

 as one would infer from superficially considering Giglio-Tos' state- 

 ments. Though these groups are geographically defined by Giglio- 

 Tos, using Wallace's Line, examination of his specific assignments 

 shows that six species referred to Hierodula (sensu stridiore of Giglio- 

 Tos), considered by him to be an Oriental genus, occur only in the 

 Australasian regions; five species referred by Giglio-Tos to his 

 Parkierodula, which he considered to be a Papuan and Australian 

 genus, occur only in the Asiatic and Oriental regions, while one 

 species of each of his divisions occurs on both sides of Wallace's 

 line. 



The genus Hierodula is exceedingly large, but already a number 

 of the species have been separated by Giglio-Tos into distinct and 

 apparently valid genera: Alalomantis, Hierodulella, Pnigoynantis, 

 Ephierodula, Camelotnantis and Tisma. It will probably also be 

 found necessary to separate Hierodula tamolana (Brancsik) and its 

 allies in a distinct genus. At present sufficient material is wanting 

 for proper and definite comparative analysis and assignment of 

 these. 



HIERODULA Burmeister. 



1838. Hierodula Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, pt. I, p. 536. 

 1912. Parhierodula Giglio-Tos, Bull. Mus. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLIII, p. 108. 



^^ Giglio-Tos takes this to mean that two distinct sources are represented, 

 one Asiatic, the other Australasian. The probability is, in our opinion, that 

 the Asiatic phylum is the original source, the other a derivative from it. This 

 opinion is strengthened by the realization that the forms with tegminal margins 

 serrulate reach much their greatest numerical abundance in Papua and in few 

 cases is their distribution extended to Australia, while none are known peculiar 

 to that continent. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



Genotype, selected by Rehn.^^^ — Hierodula [Mantis] niembranacea 

 (Burmeister) . 



We regret, but feel obliged to say that Giglio-Tos' treatment 

 of the Hierodulse leaves much to be desired. That author has 

 described eight genera and forty-six new species. The descrip- 

 tions are deplorably brief, in some cases represented by a single 

 short and wholly comparative sentence. The measurements omit 

 all but the most essential proportions. Not a single figure is given. 

 Not only are the major divisions faulty, but also the arrangement of 

 the species, such as placing without comment, Hierodula ovata, 

 clearly the female of Hierodula laevicollis, twenty-fourth and laevi- 

 collis thirty-fifth. 



Finally we are disturbed by Giglio-Tos' conception of what con- 

 stitutes a species. That author has described Slagmomantis nordica 

 from Virginia and Baltimore, Maryland. After years of careful 

 field work in that region we have proof positive that Slagmomantis 

 Carolina (Johansson) is the only Mantid which occurs there, nordica 

 being based on merely an intensively colored phase of that species. 

 Realizing this we are dismayed at the number of new species de- 

 scribed from little known tropical regions, the descriptions giving 

 differences which are so slight that we can but fear that a multitude 

 of invalid species have been proposed. 



The situation only shows the absolute necessity at the present 

 time, of the specialist, working on a particular group of insects, to 

 have a first hand knowledge of the forms in nature. It would 

 appear that the most serious defects in Giglio-Tos' studies are due 

 to the fact that that author has apparently had little or no prepara- 

 tion in the field for the task undertaken. 



Hierodula gracilicollis Stal. 



1877. H[ierodula\ gracilicollis St&l, Bih. till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., 



IV, No. 10, p. 58. [ 9 ; Sarawak, [Borneo].] 

 1898. H[ierodula] stigmata Brunner, Abhandl. Senkenb. Naturforsch. Ges., 

 XXIV, p. 214, pi. XVII, fig. 21. [cT ; Kina Balu, [British North] Borneo.] 



We believe Kirby correct in considering stigmata the same as 

 gracilicollis, but are of the opinion that Mantis similis Giebel is 

 best assigned to synonymy under Hierodula venosa (Olivier). 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 2 cf , 1 9 . 



These specimens are the most delicate and slender of any material 

 now before us representing the genus Hierodula or its allies. The 



s^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, p. 708, (190.3). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



female at hand differs from the type in being somewhat longer, with 

 pronotal width slightly greater and tegmina slightly longer, in all 

 other respects agreeing closely with the measurements given by 

 Stal. 



The following features are noted for the present material. Facial 

 scutellum with lateral margins parallel, broader than high (cf 1.9 

 by 1.7, 9 2.8 by 2.7 mm.), showing two parallel vertical carinse 

 which are well defined, particularly ventrad, but show a brief sub- 

 sidence, though no break, immediately below the median point. 

 Cephalic coxae with cephalic margin armed with small, somewhat 

 irregularly placed, slender but blunted spines (eight to thirteen ^^), 

 with apices directed distad, those meso-distad being slightly the 

 larger. Cephalic femora with base and apex of trochanter flecked 

 with dark brown, a minute brown fleck at base of first discoidal 

 spine, at base of first large spine beyond the unguicular sulcus and 

 at bases of last two large spines of this series, these spines, as well 

 as the third discoidal spine, blackish brown on their internal faces. 

 All spines of cephaHc femora and tibiae black tipped. Each joint 

 of cephalic tarsi flecked with brown distad. Pronotum with well 

 developed but not closely placed marginal denticulations on collar 

 and cephalic half of shaft, weaker in one male and in that specimen 

 mainly indicated on collar. Tegmina with discoidal field trans- 

 parent, hyaline in males, opaque in female, except mesad between 

 veins, where they are translucent; stigma small (length 2.7 to 2.8 

 mm.), flecked with brown proximad and distad. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Greatest Least 



cf Length of Length of width of width of Length of 



body. pronotum. pronotum. pronotum. tegmen. 



Labuan Island, Borneo 55 16.2 4 2.2 41.1 



Labuan Island, Borneo 56 17.6 4.2 2.3 44.8 



9 

 Labuan Island, Borneo 62 21 5.6 .3.1 34.2 



The width of the marginal field of the tegmina in the males is 4 

 and 4.2, in the female 5 mm. 



Hierodula vitrea (Stoll). 



1S13. [Mantis] vitrea Stoll, Nat. Afbeeld. Beschryv. Spooken, etc., pp. 15, 

 77, pi. V, fig. 19. [[cf ], "Surinam."] 



^3 Interspaced with a few very small nodiform spines, so that the full count 

 would be given as twelve to fourteen. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra, 

 August and September, 1901, (Harrison and Hiller), 2 9 , [Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia]. 



Batavia, Java, 1885, 1 cf from Saussure, labelled Hierodula 

 hybrida Burmeister, [Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia]. 



Srondol, Samarang, Java, August, 1909, (E. Jacobson), 1 juv. cf , 

 [Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.] 



We are by no means assured that StoU's vitrea and Olivier's venosa 

 do not represent sexes of one and the same species, but we do know 

 that we have two distinct though closely allied species before us, 

 to which we believe have been generally given in the literature 

 the names we are using. So involved is the synonymy at present 

 that we are strongly of the opinion that we here have to deal with 

 an extremely plastic unit, comparable with H. patellifera Serville, 

 and like it, the cause of much confusion in past literature. Conse- 

 quently many features, usually considered of specific diagnostic 

 value, will probably be found worthless for the species under con- 

 sideration. 



For this reason we feel that Giglio-Tos has shown decided temerity 

 in describing Hierodula vitreoides, near vitrea, and Parhierodula 

 simhangaria, near venosa. Were these species adequately described, 

 or figures given, their proper status might be determined. As it is, 

 ■examination of the types and, if valid, redescription with figures 

 -will be necessary. 



In the material here recorded the cephalic coxae have the cephalic 

 margin armed with (eight to nine) moderately well separated spines, 

 which increase moderately in length distad (particularly in the 

 females, length of longest, cf .3, 9 .8 mm.). The costal margin 

 of the tegmina is weakly serrulate, this strongest meso-distad. In 

 the females the pronotum has the margins of the collar moderately 

 denticulate, the denticulations of the cephalic half of the shaft 

 weak, the shaft with medio-longitudinal carina well developed. 

 In this sex the tegmina extend considerably beyond the apex of 

 the abdomen, with marginal field proportionately narrower than 

 in females of venosa and with stigma smaller (length 2.4 and 2.9 

 mm.). 



The adult specimens before us are all dried alcoholic. One only 

 shows the cephalic trochanter with apex slightly darkened, but all 

 show subobsolete traces of darker suffusions on the inner faces of 

 the cephalic femora, as described for venosa. From this feature 

 we believe that H. tenuis Giglio-Tos is a member of the same phy- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 57 



lum, though particularly distinct in having the margins of the male 

 pronotum crenulate. The margins of the male pronotum are entire, 

 with no trace of denticulation, in both vitrea and venosa. 



Hierodula venosa (Olivier). 



1792. Mantis venosa Olivier, Encycl. Method., VII, p. 639, No. 73. [[ 9 ]; 

 Tranquebar, [India].] 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 2 9 . 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf . 



This material, compared with specimens which we consider rep- 

 resentative of H. vitrea (StoU), shows that very close affinity exists. 



We separate the material here recorded by the more numerous 

 (twelve to fourteen) ^^ and closely placed spines of the cephalic 

 margin of the cephalic coxae, which increase somewhat irregularly 

 but strongly in length distad (particularly in females, length of 

 longest spine, cf .8, 9 1.3 mm.). The costal margin of the tegmina 

 is distinctly, moderately strongly serrulate. In the females the 

 pronotum has the margins of the collar and cephalic half of the 

 shaft strongly denticulate, the shaft with medio-longitudinal carina 

 subobsolete or weakly defined. In this sex the tegmina reach only 

 slightly beyond the apex of the abdomen, with marginal field pro- 

 portionately broader than in females of vitrea and with stigma more 

 ample (length 3.7 and 4.9 mm.). 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Greatest Least 

 cf Length of Length of width of width of Length of 



body. pronotum. pronotum. pronotum. tegmen. 



Sandakan, Borneo 71 23.5 6.8 4.4 52.2 



9 



Labuan Island, Borneo.. .. 68 25 7.8 4.9 41.6 



Labuan Island, Borneo.. .. 79 27 9 5.3 51.1 



The width of the marginal field of the tegmina in the male is 4.4, 

 in the females 5.6 and 5.8 mm. 



In the specimens at hand the cephalic trochanters are brown at 

 the apex, the femora above this point, above the first discoidal 

 spine and above the first and fifth larger spines of the ventro-internal 

 margin are flecked with brown. These markings are decided in 

 one female, very faint in the other two specimens. The larger 

 female has the stigma with small brown suffusions proximad and 



** Interspaced with additional very small nodiform spines. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



distacl, the male shows a trace of such marking, while the remaining 

 female has the stigma immaculate. 



Hierodula rajah Werner. 



1911. H[ierodula] rajah Werner. Abhand. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges., 

 XXXIII, p. .39.3. [cf , 9 ; Nias [Island], Moluccas.] 



Nias Island, Moluccas, 19. 



The following features are noted in the female before us of this- 

 large and striking species, originally very briefly described. Facial 

 scutellum with lateral margins straight, weakly but distinctly con- 

 vergent dorsad; basal width (3.9 mm.) very slightly greater than 

 median height (3.8 mm.); surface showing two vertical, parallel 

 carinse, broken meso-ventrad as in H. venosa (Olivier) but decidedly 

 weaker than in that species. Cephalic coxae with (eight and nine) 

 small, stout, irregularly placed, conical teeth, which do not become 

 longer distad. Cephalic femora with discoidal spines, first small 

 spine beyond unguicular sulcus and all large spines of ventro-internal 

 margin black, a fleck of black disto-internally on the trochanters, 

 a large blotch of the same color from the apex of the trochanters to 

 and including the unguicular sulcus, a small blotch at base of the 

 first two black spines beyond, continued to the second large black 

 spine of the series, and a spot of black at the base of each other large 

 black spine of the series. All spines of cephalic femora and tibiae 

 black tipped. Joints of cephalic tarsi entirely black on their inner 

 faces. Pronotum with marginal denticulation pronounced on lat- 

 eral portions of collar only. Tegmina with discoidal field trans- 

 lucent, moderately hyaline; marginal field opaque, with margin^ 

 almost entire, showing feeble traces of serrulation meso-distad; 

 stigma large, cream colored. 



The species would appear to agree more nearly with H. timorensis 

 (Haan) than wnth any of the other related species. 



Length of body 88, length of pronotum 33, greatest width of 

 pronotum 10.1, least width of pronotum 5.8, length of tegmen 58.8, 

 width of tegminal marginal field 6.2, length of stigma 4.3, length 

 of cephalic femur 25, length of caudal femur 25.6 mm. 



Hierodula patellifera (Serville). 



1839. Mantis patellifera Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 185. [cf, 9; 



Java.] 

 1839. Mantis bipapilla Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 188. [a", 9; 



Java.] 

 1870. H[ierodula] manillensis Saussure, Mittheil. Schweizer Ent. Gesellsch., 



Ill, p. 233. [cf , 9 ; Manila, [Philippine Islands].] 

 1904. H[ierodula] saussurei Kirby, Syn. Cat. Orth., I, p. 245. [o', 9; 



China; Java.] 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



1912. H[ierodula\ maniUana Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLIII, 

 p. 96. [d^, 9 ; Manila, Philippine Islands.] 



Saussure first pointed out the synonymy of patellifera, bipapilla 

 and maniUensis. 



From study of the literature, the material here recorded and a 

 moderately large Japanese series in the Philadelphia Collections, 

 we are convinced that we here have to deal with an exceedingly 

 plastic species. The name saussurei was proposed for a condition 

 in which the prosternum is immaculate, maniUana for a condition 

 in which the cephalic femora are suffused with black on their in- 

 ternal faces from base to unguicular sulcus. 



The prosternum varies from immaculate to a heavily twice banded 

 type, the degree of banding, when present, individually differing 

 greatly as shown in the Japanese material at hand. The macula- 

 tion of the cephalic femora appears to us to be a similarly individual 

 color variation in this insect. In this species the costal margin 

 of the tegmina is smooth, rarely showing faint traces of serrulation. 



Giglio-Tos has attempted to separate hipapiUa from patellifera 

 on the basis of differences in pronotal curvature and other features, 

 all of which we are satisfied are of no specific diagnostic value for 

 this plastic insect. 



Cuernos Mountains, Island of Negros, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 d". 



Manila, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, September, 1918, 

 (R. C. McGregor), 1 9, [Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia]. 



Los Banos, Laguna, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 9 . 



Mt. Makiling, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. 

 Baker), 2 9. 



The Manila specimen, is green and has the internal face of the 

 cephalic femora suffused with blackish brown ventro-proximad. 

 The other specimens are light or dark brown, that from Los Banos 

 being much the smallest. The darkest individual from Mt. Makiling 

 is strongly mottled and has the internal face of the cephalic femora 

 weakly suffused with dark brown ventro-proximad. 



Hierodula aruana Westwood. 



1889. Hierodula aruana Westwood, Rev. Ins. Fam. Mantidarum. p. 3.5, 

 pi. IV, fig. 4. [ 9 , Aru Islands.] 



Setekwa River, opposite Aru Islands on south coast of Dutch 

 New Guinea, (A. S. Meek), 1 9 . 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



This female has a close general resemblance to the female of 

 H. rajah Werner here recorded, but is somewhat smaller and shorter. 

 The coloration of the prosternum, mesosternum, cephalic coxse 

 and femora readily distinguish these species, which we do not be- 

 lieve will be found nearly as plastic as the species more closely 

 related to vitrea and the variable pateUifera. 



The costal margin of the tegmina is rather strongly serrate in 

 this specimen. Length of body 75, length of pronotum 28.2, great- 

 est width of pronotum 9.2, least width of pronotum 5.8, length of 

 tegmen 51, width of tegminal marginal field 6.2, length of cephalic 

 femur 23.3, length of caudal femur 23.8 mm. 



Hierodula laevicoUis Saussure. 



1870. H[ierodula] laevicoUis Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 230. [cf, 

 Amboina.] 



1871. H[ierodula] ovata Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 409. [9, Am- 

 boina.] 



The association of the sexes in the present series is unquestion- 

 ably correct, and shows that Saussure described the female of this 

 species as ovata. 



Island of Amboina, Moluccas, 7 cf , 2 9,1 juv. 9 , [Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia]. 



In both sexes the facial scutellum has its basal width equalling 

 its height, with lateral margins parallel in the males, very feebly 

 convergent dorsad in the females and with the two vertical and 

 parallel carinse subobsolete as to elevation but well defined through- 

 out in paler coloration, each showing an impressed puncta slightly 

 below the median point. The lateral margins of the pronotal collar 

 are smooth to very feebly tuberculate in the males, weakly tuber- 

 culate in the females. The pronotal shaft has a medio-longitudinal 

 carina, subobsolete to moderately developed in the males, moder- 

 ately developed in the females, and in the males only, the caudal 

 margin is bordered to varying degrees with a blackish brown suf- 

 fusion. The costal margins of the tegmina are smooth, showing 

 mere traces of denticulation under high magnification. The large 

 oval buffy stigma in the males contrasts strikingly with the trans- 

 parent, hyaline but brown tinged discoidal fields of the tegmen. 

 The cephalic coxse are armed with (six to eight in the series) small, 

 bluntly conical teeth in the males, with (six to seven in the series) 

 rather heavy bluntly conical teeth in the females. . 



Hierodula obiensis new species. (Plate II, figures l and 2.) 



This interesting species is closely related to H. laevicoUis Saussure, 

 both sexes differing from that species in being of smaller size, with 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



facial scutellum decidedly transverse, not of almost equal height and 

 width, and with markings and coloration different. 



Type. — cf ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection Type No. 

 524.] 



Size small, form rather slender for the genus. Ocelli large, closely 

 placed, arranged in a triangle slightly broader than high. Facial 

 scutellum transverse, height approximately three-fifths basal width; 

 vertical parallel carinse subobsolete, the two lateral sections of the 

 scutellum each with a small dark brown suffusion mesad; dorsal 

 margin of scutellum moderately convex, showing an indication of 

 mesal angulation. Pronotum as in laevicollis, except that all trace 

 of medio-longitudinal carination on the shaft is lost; supra-coxal 

 expansion moderate, more decided than in H. venosa (Olivier), as 

 in laevicollis, very slightly weaker than in H. sorongana (Giglio- 

 Tos), margins smooth, caudad briefly margined with a narrow dark 

 suffusion as in this sex of laevicollis, this feature indicated to a much 

 less degree in the male of sorongana before us. Tegmina and wings 

 much as in laevicollis, extending well beyond apex of abdomen; 

 marginal field opaque, broad proximad, narrowing rapidly mesad, 

 very narrow in distal half; remaining portions clear hyaline, with 

 cross-veinlets brown for a brief distance from each vein; stigma 

 small, linear, hardly opaque. Limb armament exactly as in laevi- 

 collis. Cephalic coxae with cephalic margin armed with (six and 

 eight) very small bluntly conical teeth. Cephalic femora with 

 genicular areas each supplied with a small blunt spine; ventro- 

 internal margin with the following formula, ililililililiil, these 

 spines black tipped, the larger spines of this series as well as the 

 first and third discoidal spines taAvny, with a distinct basal suffusion 

 of this color on the limb except for the discoidal spines. Cephalic 

 tibiae with eleven ventro-external and fourteen ventro-internal 

 spines, the external series beginning a slight distance from the tibial 

 base. Caudal metatarsus approximately equal in length to that 

 of the succeeding joints. 



Allotype. — 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.) 



Agrees closely with this sex of laevicollis, differing in the smaller 

 size and facial scutellum, which is as described for the male of this 

 species, thus differing only in having the dorsal margin more broadly 

 convex. Compared with the male type of this species, this sex is 

 seen to differ in the more robust form, ocelli which are much smaller 

 and more widely spaced, pronotum with lateral margins micro- 

 scopically denticulate before the supra-coxal expansion, minutely 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



but distinctly denticulate on the collar, with shaft showing a weak 

 but distinct medio-longitudinal carina. The tegmina and wings 

 reach only to base of supra-anal plate. The tegmina are opaque, 

 with stigma more decided. The cephalic coxae are armed with 

 (six and seven) rather heavy, rounded teeth. ^^ The supra-anal 

 plate is very strongly transverse, its length hardly over one-fifth 

 its basal width, with distal margin very broadly convex. 



Male with head ochraceous-tawny, facial scutellum with two 

 small suffusions of slate color meso-laterad, eyes dark hazel. Pro- 

 notum cinnamon-brown, caudal margin and proximal portion of 

 lateral margins for a brief distance suffused with blackish brown. 

 Tegmina with marginal fields opaque, biscay green, the numerous 

 irregular veinlets vinaceous-brown; remaining portions transparent, 

 clear hyaline, except the transverse veinlets, which are all briefly 

 mummy brown from the points of intersection with the veins. 

 Limits pale green. Cephalic femora with the first and third dis- 

 coidal spines tawny, the longer spines of the ventro-internal margin 

 tawny, each with a small basal suffusion on the limb of tawny. 



Female with occiput between eyes mummy brown, eyes rich 

 tawny, face light ochraceous salmon, facial scutellum with a small 

 slate colored suffusion meso-laterad on each side, which is slightly 

 larger than in the male. Caudal portion of occiput, all of pronotum 

 and limbs snuff brown, the pronotum somewhat irregularly tinged 

 with blackish brown caudad. Spines of cephalic coxae light buff, 

 larger femoral spines tawny as in male. Tegmina opaque, pale 

 yellowish green, ''^ stigma cream color. 



Length of body d' 52.8, 9 54.6; width of head d" 7, 9 8; length 

 of pronotum d 17, 9 19; greatest width of pronotum cf 4.9, 9 5.8; 

 least width of pronotum cf 2.9, 9 3.1; length of tegmen cf 41.2, 

 9 28.6; width of tegminal marginal field cf 2.9, 9 3; stigma d 3.2 

 by .7, 9 2.9 by .8; length of cephalic femur cf 12.7, 9 14.7; length 

 of caudal femur cf 14.3, 9 14.9 mm. 



This species is known from the single pair. 



Hierodula sorongana (Giglio-Tos) . 



1912. P[arhierodula] sorongana Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLIII, 

 p. 120. [ 9 ; Mansinam and Sorong, New Guinea.] 



Haidana, Collingwood Bay, British New Guinea, April to May, 

 1907, (from A. S. Meek), 1 c^. 



^^ In this respect the contrast between the sexes is exactly as in laevicollis. 

 *" Apparently decidedly faded from the coloration in life. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



After careful study of the literature, we place this insect under 

 Giglio-Tos' sorongana, though that species is described from fe- 

 males and the description palpably insufficient. 



No difference of note in the present example is remarked, except 

 that the types are described as having the metazona distinctly 

 tectiform carinate, while in the present specimen it is evenly rounded 

 with carination subobsolete. Such difference between the sexes 

 is shown by the series of H. laevicollis Saussure before us, so that we 

 feel our present association to be justified. 



When compared with males of laevicollis, the present male is seen 

 to represent a species belonging to the same phylum. It differs 

 in the facial scutellum being of the same proportions but with parallel 

 vertical carinae weak but distinct, broken slightly below the middle, 

 with brief ventral portions slightly the more developed, much as 

 in H. venosa (Olivier). The pronotum is slightly smaller in pro- 

 portion to the rest of the body but of exactly the same character, 

 with caudal margin of shaft showing only a very weak darker suf- 

 fusion. The denticulations of the cephalic coxae are more numerous 

 (eight and nine), irregular and very slightly more slender. The 

 tegmina have the discoidal field transparent, hyaline and colorless, 

 while the stigma is much less conspicuous, narrower (3.1 by 4, in 

 laevicollis 3.5 by 1.1 mm.) and the costal margins of the tegmina 

 are minutely denticulate, this well developed meso-distad. 



Length of body 61, length of pronotum 20.2, width of pronotum 

 5.9, length of tegmen 46.7, width of tegminal marginal field 3.5, 

 length of cephaHc femur 17.3, length of caudal femur 15.4 mm. 



The Tamolana Group of the Genus Hierodula. 



Of the species assigned by Giglio-Tos to his subgenus Rhom- 

 hoderula, of his genus Par-hierodula, but two, saussureii Kirby and 

 exiensicollis Serville, are referable to Rhomhodera. 



The others constitute a group, reaching its maximum develop- 

 ment in Papua, which includes types, annectant to varying degrees, 

 between the typical forms of Hierodula and Rhomhodera. Of these, 

 atricoxis Wood-Mason shows the most decided approach toward 

 the type of pronotal development characteristic of Rhomhodera. 



These species may represent a valid generic unit or a subgenus 

 of Hierodula, but for the present we believe it best to assign them 

 as a group of that genus, which we term the Tamolana Group. All 

 are distinguished by the pronotal expansion being slightly to de- 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



cidedly wider than the width of the head and all are conspicuous 

 in form and coloration. We would place these species in the follow- 

 ing order: pectoralis (Wood-Mason), denticulata (Krauss), phryne 

 Stal, splendida here described, tamolana (Brancsik), atricoxis Wood- 

 Mason. Three species described by Giglio-Tos, andaina, dilena 

 and katauana, undoubtedly belong to this group, but the descrip- 

 tions are given over almost entirely to discussion of coloration and 

 without figures we are unable to determine accurately their affinities. 



Hierodula denticulata (Krauss). 



1902. R[hotnbodera] pectoralis variety denticulata Krauss, Orth. Austr. 

 Malay. Archip., p. 756, pi. LXVII, fig. 4. [ 9 , British New Guinea.] 



Setekwa River, Dutch New Guinea, (from A. S. Meek), 19. 



The present specimen differs from the type in having internal 

 surface of the cephalic coxae entirely black, instead of black irt 

 the distal third. The distribution of the dark coloration on this 

 surface has been used as an important specific diagnostic character 

 by Giglio-Tos, but we are by no means convinced that it is not 

 subject to decided individual variation, at least within certain 

 species, its extent governed by intensification and recession of the 

 color pattern. So closely does the present specimen agree in other 

 respects with Krauss' description and excellent figure that we would 

 consider description of the present example as a new species both 

 rash and unwarranted at the present time. 



The present specimen has the shaft of the pronotum slightly 

 darkened on each side proximad and mesad and heavily suffused 

 briefly latero-caudad and along the caudal margin with blackish 

 brown. The cephalic femora have a broad transverse bar mesad 

 on their external faces of dark brown. The apex of the cephalic 

 trochanters and adjacent portion of the inner face of the cephalic 

 femora are blackish brown, while the discoidal spines and the first 

 two and all the longer spines of the series on the ventrointernal 

 margin of the cephalic femora have their internal faces blackish 

 brown, this color spreading briefly at their bases on the inner 

 surface of the limb. The prosternum has two large round blackish 

 spots near its caudal margin, the mesosternum two similar but 

 slightly larger spots, while between the median coxae are two other 

 dark suffusions. 



It would appear that Giglio-Tos' andaina, dilena and katauana 

 may prove to be other color variants or geographic races of H. 

 pectoralis (Wood-Mason) or the present species. With descriptions 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



given over almost entirely to color description and with no figures, 

 particularly necessary to show the pronotal contour, the descrip- 

 tions of these species as given have only added to the difficulties 

 encountered, and instead of representing an addition to scientific 

 knowledge, are in fact a distinct retrograde step. 



Length of body 93, width of head 12, length of pronotum 28.8, 

 greatest width of pronotum 12.7, length of pronotal shaft 20.7, 

 width of unexpanded portion of shaft 6.5, length of tegmen 53, 

 width of tegminal marginal field 6.6, length of cephalic femur 23, 

 length of caudal femur 22.3 mm. 



Hierodula splendida new species. (Plate II, figure 3.) 



The present species is distinguished from all others of this section 

 which have been properly characterized, excepting H. tamolana 

 (Brancsik) by the expansion of the pronotum, which is decidedly 

 greater than the cephalic width, but narrows sharply caudad, leav- 

 ing slightly less than half of the shaft without expansion. Compared 

 the figure and description of males of tamolana, the male under con- 

 sideration is found to differ in the more evenly rounded margins of 

 the supra-coxal expansion, which are smooth, without trace of 

 denticulation. The cephalic coxae are black on their internal faces 

 only in the distal fourth, but this coloring appears to be individually 

 variable in extent in species of the present group. 



Type. — cf; Haidana, Collingwood Bay, British New Guinea. 

 April to June, 1907. (From A. S. Meek.) [Hebard Collection 

 Type No. 525.] 



Size large, form rather robust, as in many species of the Tamolana 

 Group. Ocelli large, rather closely placed in a triangle slightly 

 wider than high. Facial scutellum with height equal to basal width, 

 dorsal margin rather strongly convex, surface with two vertical 

 parallel carinas very weakly indicated. Pronotum with lateral 

 margins smooth, shaft without trace of carina, supra-coxal expan- 

 sion pyriform, considerably wider than head, margins very weakly 

 concave-convergent cephalad, evenly convex caudad to juncture 

 with unexpanded portion of shaft, which portion constitutes nearly 

 half the length of the shaft. Tegmina with marginal field opaque, 

 broad, narrowing evenly and gradually distad from point of great- 

 est width; remaining portions transparent, hyaline, weakly tinged 

 with brown except proximad toward marginal fields where they are 

 embrowned and subopaque, stigma rather heavy and conspicuously 

 pale. Cephalic coxae with cephalic margin moderately lamellate, 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



armed with (eight and ten) small and very bluntly rounded spines 

 which become slightly longer than wide distad, these irregularly 

 interspaced with a few minute spinulse, other margins roughly and 

 bluntly nodulose. Cephalic femora with the characteristic arma- 

 ment of ililililililiil spines, genicular lobes each supphed with 

 a very minute, blunt, short, stout spine. Cephalic tibiae with 

 ventral margins armed with eleven external and fourteen internal 

 spines. 



Head, pronotum, body and limbs tawny olive. Cephalic femora 

 with a broad but weakly defined transverse suffusion of warm sepia. 

 Tegmina with marginal fields and adjacent portions proximad 

 mars brown; remaining portions transparent, very faintly tinged 

 with mars brown ; stigma cream color, with a brief but heavy suffusion 

 proximad and distad of blackish chestnut brown. Cephalic coxae 

 with distal fourth of internal surface shining black," apex of cephalic 

 trochanters and adjacent area of cephalic femora blackish brown. 

 First and third discoidal spines and all large spines of ventrb-internal 

 margin of cephalic femora blackish brown, this color very briefly 

 suffusion the femoral surface at the bases of all the large marginal 

 spines. Prosternum with four small flecks of blackish brown in 

 its caudal portion, mesosternum with two larger flecks of the same 

 coloration. 



Length of body 70, width of head 9.6, length of pronotum 22.8, 

 greatest width of pronotmn 12.4, length of pronotal shaft 16.7, 

 length of unexpanded portion of shaft 7.3, width of unexpanded 

 portion of shaft 5.7, length of tegmen 56, width of tegminal marginal 

 field 5, length of cephalic femur 17.9, length of caudal femur 18.8 

 mm. 



The type of this handsome insect is unique. 



RHOMBODERA Burmeister. 

 1838. Rhombodera Burmeister, Haiidb. Ent., II, Abth. II, pt. 1, p. 536. 

 1912. Rhomboderula Giglio-Tos, subgenus of Parhierodula Giglio-Tos, 

 Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLIII, p. 130. 



Having selected Rhombodera saussurei Kirby as genotype of 

 Rhomboderula in the present paper, we find this species to be con- 

 generic with Mantis valida Burmeister, genotype of Rhombodera. ^^ 

 The resultant synonymy is indicated above. 



^^ The following features of coloration have been extensively used by Giglio- 

 Tos in characterizing the species of Hierodula and its allies. In the present 

 group we feel that individual variation occurs in at least some of the species and 

 must be taken into consideration. 



68 Selected by Kirby. Syn. Cat. Orth., I, p. 248, (1904). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



We refer to our discussion of the values of the generic characters, 

 used to separate the genera of the Group Hierodulae, under the 

 group heading on page 51. We there explain our reasons for 

 repudiating Giglio-Tos' rearrangement and the new genera and 

 subgenera which he was obliged to erect after he had decided to 

 consider the smoothness or serrulation of the costal margins of 

 the tegmina of primary importance. 



On page 63, under the Tamolana Group of the genus Hierodula, 

 we discuss the majority of the species which Giglio-Tos referred 

 to his subgenus Rhomboderula. 



Rhombodera extensicoUis (Serville). 



1839. Mantis extensicoUis Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 189. [c^, 9 ; 

 Java.] 



Samarang, Java, July, 1909, (E. Jacobson), 1 cf, [Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia]. 



This specimen agrees fully with Giglio-Tos' diagnosis of extensi- 

 coUis, which species he placed in his subgenus Rhomboderula of his 

 genus Parkier odula. 



Rehn has recorded the present specimen as Rhombodera flava 

 (Haan),''' which species is closely related and may prove a syn- 

 onym of extensicoUis, as was indicated by Kirby, but resurrected 

 as valid by Giglio-Tos and placed by that author in Rhombodera, 

 which he considered a subgenus of Hierodula. 



Rhombodera stalii Giglio-Tos. 



1877. H[ierodula\ basalts St^l, (not Mantis basalis Haan, 1842), Bih. till 

 K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., IV, No. 10, p. 21. [Java, Borneo.] 



1912. H[ierodula] R[hombodera] stalii Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, 

 XLIII, p. 102. [cf, 9 : southern Java; Tengger Mountains, Eastern 

 Java.] 



Nongkodjajar, Java, January, 1911, (E. Jacobson), 1 cf, 1 9, 

 [Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia]. 



These specimens have been recorded by Rehn as R. basalis 

 (Haan).^" Giglio-Tos has proposed the name stalii for a form with 

 narrowed pronotum and apex of cephalic trochanters darkened. 

 The present specimens agree with that author's diagnosis except 

 that they are smaller. 



We hesitate to use the name stalii for we are by no means con- 

 vinced that this type will not prove to be a geographic race or 

 even a mere variant of basalis, unworthy of nominal recognition. 



Notes from Leyden Mus., XXXV, p. 125, (1912). 

 Notes from Leyden Mus., XXXV, p. 125, (1912). 




68' PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Length of body cf 56, 9 64.5; length of pronotum cf 20.3, 9 23.7; 

 greatest width of pronotum cf 11, 9 14.7; length of tegmen cT 

 50.2, 9 45.5; mdth. of tegminal marginal field cf 4.7, 9 5.8 mm. 



Rhombodera basalis (Haan). 



1842. M[antis] (Mantis) basalis Haan, in Temminck, Vorh. Nat. Gesch. 

 Nederlandsche Overseesche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 67. [ 9 ; Krawang, 

 Java.] 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 9. 



This is a large specimen; length of body 85, length of pronotum 30, 

 width of pronotum 18.7 mm. 



Rhombodera valida Burmeister. 



1838. M[antis] (Rhotnbodera) valida Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. 

 II, pt. I, p. 536. [Java.] 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 1 cf . 



This species is separated by Giglio-Tos from R. basalis (Haan) 

 by the broader, sub-circular, rhomboidal pronotum and quadii- 

 ramose discoidal vein of the tegmina. The material measured by 

 that author does not show as broad a pronotum as does the present 

 specimen, but from study of his paper we are led to believe that 

 the measurement given for pronotal width may not be correct. 



The additional ramus of the discoidal vein of the tegmina is 

 clearly a poor specific criterion, noting that the same vein is bi- or 

 tri-ramose in hasalis, as stated by Giglio-Tos. 



As a result we feel that the specific validity of the condition 

 to which the name valida is applied is open to question, the position 

 which we take being much the same as stated for R. stalii Giglio- 

 Tos in the present paper. We are further strengthened in this 

 opinion by the fact that Giglio-Tos has later described a species, 

 rotunda,^^ giving in his meagre comparative description, as differ- 

 ential characters to separate that form from valida, the broader 

 pronotum and the fact that the four specimens before him have 

 the cephalic femora with black maculations before the unguicular 

 sulcus. The present specimen agrees closely with Giglio-Tos' 

 measurements for rotunda, but has the cephalic femora immaculate. 



Length of body 71, length of pronotum 21.6, greatest width of 

 pronotum 16.3, length of tegmen 56, width of tegminal marginal 

 field 4.4 mm. 



61 Bull. Soc. Ent. Italiana, XLVIII, p. 6.5, (1917). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Rhombodera saussurei Kirby. 



1842. Mantis (Mantis) valida Haan, (not Mantis (Rhombodera) valida 

 Burmeister, 1838) in Temminck, Verb. Nat. Gesch. Nederlandsche 

 Overseesche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 66. [Timor-Koepang; Amboina.] 



1904. R[hombodera] saussurei Kirby, Syn. Cat. Orth., I, p. 248. (New 

 name proposed.) 



Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 cr' , 2 9 . 



This handsome species, though agreeing closely with R. hasalis 

 (Haan) in pronotal form, is clearly a member of a distinct species 

 group, distinguished by the greater definition of the lateral wings 

 of the pronotum from the primitive portion, the distinct and greater 

 serrulation of the pronotal margins, the serrulate costal margin 

 of the tegmina and clear hyaline wings, not tinged with pink as in 

 basalis and its closer allies. 



The present specimens, in addition, have the stigma buffy without 

 adjacent suffusions of any kind, but this feature would appear to 

 be variable, as Giglio-Tos records specimens from Timor with stigma 

 showing blackish brown suffusions cephalad and caudad, as is char- 

 acteristic for hasalis. 



From the data given in the literature, the size variation would 

 appeaT to be considerable. The measurements of the specimens here 

 recorded are: length of body, cT 71.5, 9 70-75.5; length of pro- 

 notum, cf 24.1, 9 25.2-26.2; greatest width of pronotum, cf 15.6, 

 9 17.2-18.3; length of tegmen, cf 64.1, 9 49.7-50.2; width of 

 tegminal marginal field, cf 4.9, 9 5.9-6.3 mm. 



XXIII. Archimantin^. 

 1st Group, Archimantes. 



Archimantis latistyla (Serville). 



1839. Mantis latistylus Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 179. [c?, 9'> 

 Australia.] 



Queensland, Australia, 2 9 . 



Archimantis armata Wood-Mason. 



1877. Archimantis armatus Wood-Mason, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (4), XX, 

 p. 76. [ 9 , North AustraUa.] 



Townsville, Queensland, Australia, 1 9 . 



XXVIII. Acromantin^. 

 2d Group, Acromantes. 



Oligomantis orientalis Giglio-Tos. 



191.5. 0[ligomantis] orientalis Gigho-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Auat. Comp. 

 Univ. Torino, XXX, No. 702, p. 4. [cT, 9 ; Redjang, Sumatra; Island 

 of Batu; Singapore, [British Straits Settlements].] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 d^, 1 9. 



The original description of this interesting species is inexcusably 

 brief. No mention is made of the striking granulations covering 

 the dorsal surface of the pronotum, which, in the female become 

 minute but distinct tuberculations on the collar. The wings are 

 transparent, tinged with a delicate pink, except proximad in the 

 marginal field, where they are tinged with green. 



The length of the female tegmen as given by Giglio-Tos, 13.5 

 mm., is apparently in error, as he states "elytris angustata, ab- 

 domine longiora." Probably 23.5 mm. was intended. 



The measurements of the pair before us are as follows: length of 

 body, cf 22, 9 34; length of pronotum, cf 8, 9 11.8; greatest width 

 of pronotum, cf 1.9, 9 2.9; length of tegmen, d^ 14.3, 9 23.7; 

 width of tegminal marginal field, cf 1.2, 9 2; length of caudal 

 femur, cf 5.3, 9 7.2 mm. 



Acromantis moultoni Giglio-Tos. 



1915. A[cromantis] moultoni Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. comp. 

 Univ. Torino, XXX, No. 702, p. 5. [ 9 ; Borneo; Daivel Bay, Borneo.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf , 1 9. 



Giglio-Tos' treatment of eight new species, of which moultoni 

 is the second, is pitiably superficial and brief, as usual without a 

 single figure. Particularly reprehensible is the fact that in no case 

 is a single transverse dimension given, leaving the reader in complete 

 ignorance as to the slenderness or robustness of the species de- 

 scribed. 



The male before us has the margin of the suture mesad above 

 the ocelli minutely angulate produced ventrad, as may be expected 

 for this sex of a species of Acromantis in which the females have 

 no trace of a tubercle at this point. This specimen very closely 

 resembles the male before us oi A. oligoneura (Haan), differing in 

 not having a minute but distinct tubercle above the ocelli and in 

 having the oblique portions of the discoidal and median veins of 

 the tegmina more strongly curved toward their bases. The dis- 

 coidal field of the tegmina is colorless, hyaline, weakly reticulated 

 with green veins, the third and fourth of the oblique veins mar- 

 gined along their proximal portion with a brown suffusion. 



The female has no trace of angulate production or tubercle above 

 the ocelh. The discoidal field of the tegmina is colorless, hyaline, 

 with veins similar to those of the male but with the reticulation 

 somewhat smaller and closer and with no suffusions whatever. The 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



wings are truncate distad, with immediate apices showing very 

 slight production. 



It is clear that moulioni is very close to oligoneura and may prove 

 to be a geographic race. Giglio-Tos' insularis, from the superficial 

 description, is apparently even closer to oligoneura and may repre- 

 sent a geographic race, but more probably an absolute synonym 

 of that species. 



Length of body, cf 21.8, 9 28; length of pronotum, d" 7, 9 8.3; 

 greatest pronotal width, 0^2.4, 9 2.9; length of tegmen, 17.6, 9 21.2; 

 width of tegminal marginal field, cf 1-4, 9 2; width of cephalic 

 femur, cf 1.7, 9 2.2 mm. 



Acromantis oligoneura (Haan). 



1842. M[antis] oligoneura Haan, in Temminck, Verh. Nat. Gesch. Neder- 

 landsche Overseesche Bezittingen, Orth., p. 90, pi. XVIII, fig. 6. [cf, 9 : 

 Java; Padang; Amboina; Tonda, [Celebes].] 



Batavia, Java, June and September, 1908, (E. Jacobson), 1 cf , 

 1 9 , [Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.] 



These specimens have been correctly recorded by Rehn.«- The 



measurements are: length of body, 6^21, 9 26; length of pronotum, 



cf 6^, 9 7.4; greatest width of pronotum, d^ 2.1, 9 2.7; length of 



tegmen, cf 16.2, 9 18.8; width of tegminal marginal field, cf 1.2, 



9 2; width of cephalic femur, cf 1.7, 9 2.1 mm. 



Acromantis luzonica new species. (Plate II, figure 4.) 



This species agrees with A. parvula Westwood^^ in size and in 

 having the apex of the anterior field of the wings arcuate and not 

 showing the truncation indicated to varying degrees in males of 

 the other species known to us. It differs in having no supra-ocellar 

 spine, the pronotal supra-coxal expansion more decided, the teg- 

 mina and wings not surpassing the apex of the abdomen, the teg- 

 mina with all fields equally tinged with green and subopaque and 

 the distal lobes of the median and caudal femora smaller, scarcely 

 half as wide as the tibiae. 



«2 Notes from Leyden Mus., XXXV, p. 126, (1912). 



*^ One of the most unsatisfactory features of Giglio-Tos' work lies in the fact 

 that in his revisionary studies of the Acromantinse he has almost invariably 

 failed to give any additional data for previously described species. Under A. 

 oligoneura (Haan) he places A. parvula Westwood as a synonym, records ma- 

 terial from Java and Borneo, but gives no data whatever concerning the speci- 

 mens recorded or reasons for the sjTionymy indicated. The fact that the apex 

 of the anterior field of the wings as figured by Westwood shows no truncation 

 whatever causes us to believe parvula to be a valid species, which we here recog- 

 nize. Westwood's description is unsatisfactorj% but with his figure far more 

 useful than the descriptions of new species of the genus Acromantis given by 

 Giglio-Tos. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Compared with a male of A. oligoneura (Haan) before us, the 

 present male is seen to differ widely in its smaller size, decidedly 

 shorter and heavier pronotum with supra-coxal expansion more 

 decided, much shorter tegmina and wings with distal margins showing 

 no truncation, suffused tegmina with cross- veinlets very much 

 more numerous and irregular and differently colored wings with 

 apex of anterior field not distinctly truncate. 



The position of the present species in the genus Acromantis is 

 somewhat difficult to assign, due to the fact that the male sex of 

 A. australis Saussure and the female sex qf luzonica are unknown. 

 The heavy pronotum and colored wings lead us to believe it to be 

 more closely related to the group including australis than to that 

 including the more slender species such as oligoneura. It is very 

 possible that it represents a distinct group, in certain features an- 

 nectant between these, but further material is needed before this 

 can be definitely stated. From comparison with the male of A. 

 hesione Stal before us, it is clear that the present species is widely 

 separated from that insect, which is clearly the nearest approach 

 among the species of the australis type toward those of the oli- 

 goneura type. 



Type. — cf ; Baguio, Benguet, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands. 

 (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection Type No. 528.] 



Size small and form robust for the genus. Head with supra- 

 ocellar spine subobsolete, represented by a mere rounded node 

 mesad on the transverse carina there formed. Occiput with lateral 

 vertical sulcations alone distinct, the two mesad indicated only as 

 shallow, broad, brief depressions below the summit, summit of 

 occiput not raised above the eyes, nearly transverse, very weakly 

 and broadly concave mesad and very weakly and broadly convex 

 from lateral sulci to eyes. Ocelli not large, distinctly smaller than 

 in this sex of oligoneura and not as closely placed, arranged in a 

 triangle slightly wider than high. Pronotum strikingly heavy for 

 the size of the insect, the few blunt teeth on lateral margins of shaft 

 and neck heavy, distinctly heavier than those of oligoneura; supra- 

 coxal expansion decided, margins smooth, forming a rounded angu- 

 lation meso-cephalad, as in oligoneura. Tegmina short, not extend- 

 ing beyond apex of abdomen, entirely subopaque, in all fields thickly 

 supplied with a network of minute irregular veinlets; marginal field 

 broad, narrowing gradually to near apex of tegmina; the four ob- 

 Uque veins of the discoidal field straight, not curved at their bases; 

 the apices of the tegmina moderately broadly rounded, but with 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



curvature at apex more decided than in oligoneura. Wings extend- 

 ing as far as tegmina, with apices similar except that the curvature 

 at the apex is slightly broader, these organs distinctively colored. 

 Cerci short, stout, apex acute, joints moderately moniliform. Ce- 

 phalic coxae with cephalic margin armed with (six) small, blunt, 

 irregularly placed teeth. Cephalic femora lamellate dorsad, the 

 dorsal margin evenly and weakly convex; ventro-internal margin 

 with spines arranged, as characteristic for the genus, in the following 

 formula, ilililililil I, all genicular lobes each armed with a short 

 heavy spine. Cephalic tibiae with eleven external and eleven and 

 twelve internal spines on the ventral margins. Median and caudal 

 femora dorso-distad each produced caudad in a longitudinal lamella, 

 only two-thirds as wide as tibia, the margin of which is broadly 

 convex. 



Head and pronotum cinnamon brown, the latter paling slightly 

 toward ochraceous-tawny dorsad. Tegmina subopaque, immacu- 

 late, strongly tinged with ecru-olive (probably much faded from 

 the color in life). Wings tinged with ochraceous-orange, this be- 

 coming ochraceous-tawny along costal margin distad in anterior 

 field. Cephalic limbs olive lake, the coxae and tibiae suffused with 

 brown, the femora showing traces of two pale transverse bands and 

 with the larger spines of the ventro-internal margins colored as the 

 other spines, the tips alone darkened. Caudal limbs olive lake, 

 the femora heavily suffused with blackish chestnut brown in prox- 

 imal and distal third and with traces of this color mesad, the tibiae 

 annulate proximad, mesad and distad with this color, the tarsal 

 joints suffused distad. (The ground color of the limbs is apparently 

 much faded from the color in life.) 



Length of body 19.2, length of pronotum 5.9, greatest width of 

 pronotum 2.6, width of pronotal shaft 1.6, length of tegmen 12.3, 

 width of tegmen 4.4, width of tegminal marginal field 1.1, length of 

 cephalic femur 5.8, width of cephalic femur 1.9, height of lamella 

 on caudal femur .4, length of caudal femur 4.9 mm. 



The type of this extraordinary little mantid is unique. 



Acromantis hesione Stal. 



1877. A[cromantis] hesione St§,l, Ofv. Kongl. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877, 

 No. 10, p. 38. [ 9 , Philippine Islands.] 



Los Banos, Laguna, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 <f. 



Davao, Davao, Island of Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 9. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



The present species clearly belongs to the group which includes 

 A. australis Saussure. This is shown by the robust form and ce- 

 phalic femora having a dorsal expansion, weak but distinct in the 

 males, conspicuous in the females. 



The male before us is apparently an example of recessive colora- 

 tion. The general coloration is yellowish, the cephalic femora 

 weakly suffused with pale brown meso-distad on their external faces, 

 the other femora suffused proximad and distad with pale brown. 

 The tegmina have the discoidal fields transparent, hyaline, immacu- 

 late, with veins yellowish. 



The female at hand is similar except that the general coloration 

 is light brown, the cephalic femora dorsad suffused with slightly 

 darker brown proximad, mesad and distad on their external faces. 

 The tegmina have the discoidal fields transparent but heavily and 

 evenly reticulate with innumerable pale brown veins, so that these 

 areas appear only slightly vitreous, with third and fifth obliciue 

 veins showing a small but distinct maculation of dark brown about 

 their bases. 



Length of body, cf 25, 9 33; length of pronotum, cf 8, 9 9; 

 greatest pronotal width, cf 2.5, 9 3.6; length of tegmen, cf 18.8, 

 9 21.9; width of tegminal marginal field, cf 1.3, 9 2.4; width of 

 cephalic femur, cf 2, 9 3 mm. 



Acromantis australis Saussure. 



1871. Acromantis australis Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 449, pi. VII, 

 fig. 68. [ 9 : Moluccas; Island of Waigiou.] 



Fakfak, Dutch New Guinea, 19. 



This is the only species of the genus before us which has a well 

 developed conical projection above the ocelli; this projection slightly 

 higher but more slender than that at the dorsal apex of the facial 

 scutellum in the female sex. The present specimen has the free 

 margin of the axillary field of the wings tinged with dark brown, 

 as described for Bornean material of A. aruana Westwood, a name 

 which has been assigned to synonymy under australis. 



Length of body 32, length of pronotum 9.3, greatest pronotal 

 width 3.8, length of tegmen 22.8, width of tegmen 7, width of teg- 

 men at apex 4.8, width of tegminal marginal field 2.3, width of 

 cephalic femur 2.9, height of lamella on caudal femur .9 mm. 



Acromantis dyaka new species. (Plate II, figure 5.) 



This species is the heaviest of the genus, showing the maximum 

 development of pronotal marginal denticulation and femoral lamel- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



lation. In addition the tegmina and wings show the most decided 

 distal truncation known. 



Nearest relationship is with A. australis Saussure, the present 

 female differing from a female of that species before us, in addition 

 to the features stated above, in having the spine above the ocelli 

 minute, very much smaller than the spine above the summit of the 

 facial scutellum, the tegmina with marginal field fully as broad 

 proximad but narrowing sharply in distal third, rather than narrow- 

 ing very gradually. The free margin of the axillary field of the 

 wings is not tinged with dark brown, agreeing in this respect with 

 all known material of australis from Waigiou and the Aru Islands, 

 which marginal suffusion distinguishes, however, all material of 

 that species known from New Guinea. 



Type. — Labuan Island, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collec- 

 tion Type No. 527.] 



Size large and form very robust for the genus, generally similar 

 to australis except in the following respects. Head with supra- 

 ocellar spine represented by a minute blunt projection less than 

 half as high as the spine at the dorsal apex of the facial scutellum, 

 which spine is as well developed as in australis. Occiput with four 

 deep and broad vertical sulcations; summit of occiput slightly 

 raised above the eyes, transverse, weakly convex from lateral sulci 

 to eyes. Ocelli small, slightly smaller than in this sex of australis, 

 similarly arranged in a triangle which is distinctly wider than high. 

 Pronotum similar to that of australis except that it is shorter and 

 heavier with the blunt teeth on the lateral margins fewer in number 

 but decidedly heavier and longer. Tegmina as in that species but 

 suddenly and broadly truncate distad, almost as if the distal quarter 

 of a tegmen, such as is developed in australis, had been clipped off; 

 marginal field very broad in proximal two-thirds, suddenly narrowing 

 so that it is obsolete in the greater portion of the distal third; mar- 

 ginal field opaque, dorsal field transparent but with a heavy net- 

 work of minute veins, which become so numerous and crowded 

 toward the marginal field, and particularly toward the bases of the 

 oblique veins, as to cause these portions to be almost opaque. Wings 

 with anterior field sharply truncate, hardly reaching beyond apex 

 of axillary field, portion of anterior field between mediastine vein 

 and free margin opaque along the distal portion of the anterior 

 field; axillary field transparent, very weakly tinged v\ith brown. 

 Cephalic coxae with cephalic margin armed with (six) heavy blunt 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



teeth, between which are a number of minute denticulations. Ce- 

 phalic femora lamellate dorsad, this somewhat strongest mesad, 

 the dorsal margin minutely denticulate; ventro-internal margin 

 with spines arranged as follows, ilililililil I, as characteristic of 

 the genus, all genicular lobes each armed with a short heavy spine. 

 Cephalic tibia; with eleven and twelve procumbent external and 

 twelve internal spines on the ventral margins. Median and caudal 

 femora dorso-distad each produced caudad in a large rounded lamella, 

 similar to those developed in australis, but distinctly more ample. 



Head tawny olive. Pronotum sepia laterad, fading to cinnamon- 

 buff mesad particularly on shaft, with teeth of lateral margins black. 

 Tegmina with marginal field opaque, turtle green; other portions 

 hyaline with a network of tawny olive veins as given in description, 

 with a suffusion of warm sepia about base of third oblique vein. 

 Wings hyaline very faintly tinged with ochraceous-tawny, except 

 along free margin of anterior field distad where they are opaque, 

 antimony yellow shading through tawny to prout's brown at apex, 

 the tawny and prout's brown portions spreading over the distal 

 extremity of the anterior field. Limbs prout's brown; teeth of 

 cephalic coxae bufTy; internal faces of cephalic femora tawny; second 

 and third discoidal spines black proximad and distad, larger spines 

 of ventro-internal margin entirely black, this extending on the limb 

 as a suffusion at the base of each of these spines; dorsal margin of 

 cephalic femora, internal face of cephalic tibiae and median and 

 caudal femora and tibiae each with two very pale brown areas, 

 tarsal joints pale with apices darkened. 



Length of body 28.5, length of pronotum 8.7, greatest pronotal 

 width 4, length of tegmen 19, greatest tegminal width 7, width of 

 tegmen at apex 6.7, width of tegminal marginal field 2.2, length of 

 cephalic femur 8.8, width of cephalic femur 2.8, length of caudal 

 femur 7.7, height of lamella on caudal femur L2 mm. 



The type is unique. 



Odontomantis javana javana Saussure. 



1870. M[icromantis] Odontomantis javana Saussure, Melang. Orth., I, p. 181. 

 [ 9 , Java.] 



Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 2 cf, 3 9. 

 Labuan Lsland, British North Borneo, 1 cf , 2 9 . 

 Puerto Princesa, Island of Palawan, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 9 . 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Greatest 

 cf Length of Length of width of Length of 



body. pronotum. pronotum. tegmen. 



Sandakan, Borneo 16.7 4.6 2.1 11.3 



Sandakan, Borneo 15 4.2 2 10 



Labuan Island, Borneo 14,7 4.2 2 11.2 



9 



Puerto Princesa, Palawan 23 6.1 3 16.6 



Sandakan, Borneo 23.7 6 2.9 17 



Labuan Island, Borneo ..'...24.4 5.8 ' 2.8 17.3 



Odontomantis javana euphrosyne Stal. 



1877. 0[do7}to7nantis] euphrosyne St§,l, Ofv. Kongl. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 

 1877, No. 10, p. 38. [cf , 9 ; Philippine Islands.] 



Davao, Davao, Island of Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C.F.Baker), 2 c^. 



These specimens agree fully with Stal's meagre description of 

 euphrosyne, which is briefly characterized as being larger with distal 

 portion of anterior field of wings less produced and blunter than in 

 javana. We note also that these specimens, when compared with 

 Bornean males of javana, have the collar of the pronotum slightly 

 more elongate, distinctly longer than the width at the supra-coxal 

 sulcus; the anterior field of the wings distinctly more suffused than 

 the other portions, not equally suffused, and the dorsal surface of 

 the cerci, supra-anal plate and preceding segment suffused with 

 blackish brown, not of the general coloration of the dorsal surface 

 of the abdomen. 



No other differences of any diagnostic value are found and we 

 believe that ewphrosyne represents a geographic race of javana. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



cf Length of Length of 



body. pronotum. 



Davao, Mindanao 18.5 • 5.2 



Davao, Mindanao 20 5.7 



XXIX. Hymenopodin^. 



5th Group, Hymenopod.e. 



Hymenopus coronatus (Olivier). 



1792. Mantis coronatus Ohvier, Encycl. Method., VII, p. 638. [[9 and 

 juv.], Amboina.] 



Nias Island, Sunda Archipelago, 1 9 . 



This specimen exactly resembles the excellent figure of this most 

 remarkable pale yellowish mantid given by Stoll. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Creobroter granulicoUis Saussure. (Plate II. figure 6.) 



1870. Cr[eobotra] granulicoUis Saussure, Mittheil. Schweizer Ent. Ges., 

 Ill, p. 242. [ 9 , Siam?] 



Singapore, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 d^. 



Kirby has given Penang, British Straits Settlements, as the type 

 locality for this species. We are unable to locate the source of his 

 information. 



The species was described from a female, but from the minute 

 tubercle above the ocelli and moderately granulate pronotal surface 

 we feel that the present association is correct. 



This specimen is compared with a male of C. meleagris Stal as 

 to the eyes, under the discussion of that species. We would further 

 remark that the pronotum is regularly oval rather than quadri- 

 lobate in form. The tegmina are transparent, hyaline, very weakly 

 tinged with green, except proximad in the discoidal field, where 

 this becomes stronger; with a very brief (1.8 mm. in length) trans- 

 verse band of mustard yellow, bordered proximad by a black line 

 at the end of the proximal third of the discoidal field. 



Length of body 23, width of head 4.4, length of eye 2.8, length of 

 pronotum 5, greatest width of pronotum 3, length of tegmen 21, 

 width of tegmen 5.2, width of tegminal marginal field 1.3, length of 

 abdomen 9.2, width of abdomen 5.1, length of cephalic femur 6.5, 

 length of caudal femur 6.1 mm. 



Creobroter labuanae new species. (Plate II, figure 7.) 



The present species appears to find nearest affinity with C. mele- 

 agris Stal. Compared with a male of meleagris^'^ before us, the 

 present male is found to differ in its somewhat smaller size, eyes 

 which do not project as strongly, smaller pronotum, which is weakly 

 granulate, with neck proportionately shorter and the margins of 

 the neck, shaft and supra-coxal expansion all four showing about 

 the same convexity. In addition the tegminal markings are much 

 smaller, yellow, not orange, with the discal spot showing only a 

 brief transverse black band which sends a short ray into the yellow 

 area. These features of coloration may be variable within the 

 species of the genus, however, and in the present case the differ- 



^* As noted under meleagris, lack of material of C. urbana (Fabricius) prevents 

 comparison, which species, from the literature, appears to be more nearly related 

 to C. granulicoUis (Saussure) in pronotal form, with lateral margins more evenly 

 expanding and in consequence decidedly less cruciform, though agreeing with 

 labuanae and meleagris in having a well developed spine above the ocelli. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



ences noted may be due wholly to individual recession of coloration 

 from a type exactly similar to that shown by the male of meleagris 

 at hand. 



As in many genera including strikingly colored species, it is clear 

 that features of coloration, some of which are unquestionably of 

 doubtful specific diagnostic value, have been unduly emphasized 

 in past literature, while a number of important structural characters 

 have been overlooked or given but scant attention. 



Type. — cf ; Labuan Island, British North Borneo. [Hebard Col- 

 lection Type No. 526.] 



Size medium for the genus, tegmina and wings very elongate, 

 proportionately much as in meleagris and considerably longer than 

 in granulicollis, though the pronotum is decidedly smaller than in 

 7neleagris and of much the same size as in granulicollis .^^ Head 

 with eyes greatly projecting, as characteristic for the genus, but 

 distinctly less than in this sex of meleagris or granulicollis. Spine 

 above ocelli well developed, as in meleagris. Pronotum''*^ with 

 dorsal surface feebly granulate; lateral margins very slightly rough- 

 ened, denticulations obsolete except faintly indicated on cephalic 

 margins of supra-coxal expansion, much as in granulicollis, slightly 

 weaker than in meleagris; margins of neck, shaft and supra-coxal 

 expansion all equally convex, giving the pronotum a more cruciform 

 shape than in yneleagris, which shape is practically lost in granu- 

 licollis; neck short, no longer than its proximal width. Tegmina 

 and wings elongate, proportionately slightly narrower than in mele- 

 agris, of same proportions as in granulicollis, but more extensive 

 in proportion to body bulk than in that species. Wings with a 

 proximal suffusion of deep vinaceous, as in gr-anulicollis and meleagris, 

 markings of a much reduced but similar pattern to those of 

 meleagris. Ninth dorsal abdominal segment with latero-caudal 

 angles moderately produced and bluntly rounded, similarly pro- 

 duced but acute in meleagris, more decidedly produced and acute in 

 granulicollis. Supra-anal plate with margin between the cerci 

 broadly convex. Cerci moderately stout, tapering sharply at ex- 

 tremity to acute apex, in meleagris tapering more gradually distad 



®^ Males of these species are compared. We have no material to show the 

 differences which exist between the sexes in the various structural and color 

 features. 



^^ From Saussure's description of the female sex of granulicollis, we beUeve 

 that the pronotum in females of these species will be found to be more heavily 

 granulate, with margins distinctly denticulate. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



to the acute apex. Styles of subgenital plate minute, hardly twice 

 as long as wide, in meleagris minute but fully three times as long as 

 wide. Cephalic femora with ventro-internal margins showing the 

 following spine formula, ilililililiiiiil, the five small successive 

 spines decreasing in length distad with intervals diminishing, as 

 characteristic of the genus. Cephalic tibiae with thirteen and 

 fourteen procumbent external and thirteen and fourteen internal 

 spines on the ventral margins. Median and caudal femora dorso- 

 distad each produced caudad in a lamella which is slightly wider 

 than the caudal tibia. 



Color pattern exactly as in meleagris except for the absence of 

 the two pale transverse bands found on the pronotum in that species 

 and the reduction of the tegminal markings. Head cinnamon 

 brown, with margins of facial scutellum and proxiinal antennal 

 joints antimony yellow. Antennae proximad antimony yellow, 

 then briefly cinnamon brown, the entire remaining portions blackish 

 brown. Pronotum cinnamon brown with denticulations and mar- 

 ginal portions, particularly laterad, antimony yellow. Limbs anti- 

 mony yellow, femora and tibiae and cephalic coxae each with 

 three transverse annuli of equal width which are cinnamon brown, 

 all femora distad and cephalic coxae in addition suffused proximad 

 with cinnamon brown; cephalic metatarsus suffused with cinnamon 

 brown mesad and distad, other metatarsi suffused with cinnamon 

 brown distad, remaining tarsal joints suffused with this color. Teg- 

 rnina transparent, tinged with green, this heavy proximad, a small 

 spot at base of discoidal field and a comparatively small transverse 

 oval area before the middle of the discoidal field mustard yellow, 

 the latter bounded proximad by a black line which sends one short 

 ray of black into the yellow area; extensor field clear hyaline, color- 

 less. Wings transparent, hyaline, colorless except proximad where 

 they are briefly tinged with dark vinaceous and distad in the an- 

 terior field where they are tinged with green, particularly toward 

 the margins. 



Length of body 23.5, width of head 4.3, length of eye 2.3, length 

 of pronotum 4.7, greatest pronotal width 3.3, length of tegmen 25, 

 width of tegmen 6, width of tegminal marginal field L2, length of 

 abdomen 9.4, greatest abdominal width 5.5, length of cephalic 

 femur 6.8, length of caudal femur 6 mm. 



The type of this beautiful little species is uniciue. 



Creobroter meleagris Stal. (Plate II, figure 8.) 



1,S77. ('[reohoter] meleagris St&l, Ofv. Kongl. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877, 

 No. 10, p. 39. [(f, 9 ; Philippine Islands.] 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Los Banos, Laguna, Island of Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from 

 C. F. Baker), 1 d". 



This specimen agrees fully with Stal's brief description. The 

 species appears to be close to C. urhana (Fabricius), but how close 

 we are unable to state, lacking material of that species for the nec- 

 essary comparison. 



In the male before us the eyes project strongly, though not as 

 slender and more divergent than those of the male of C. granuli- 

 collis Saussure at hand. The conical spine above the ocelli is well 

 developed, the pronotum with surface subgranulate and distinctly 

 quadrilobate in form, the tegmina with proximal spot and ocellate 

 area bittel-sweet orange, the latter with two black dots proximad, 

 bounded proximad by a broad arcuate black line, distad by a hyaline 

 mai'gin with a similar broad arcuate black line bounding it, the 

 extensor field hyaline, colorless except for a large mesal suffusion 

 of blackish brown. 



Length of body 26, width of head 5, length of eye 2.9, length of 

 pronotum 6.1, greatest pronotal width 3.9, length of tegmen 26.8, 

 width of tegmen 6.9, width of tegminal marginal field 1.7, length of 

 abdomen 10, greatest abdominal width 6, length of cephalic femur 9, 

 length of caudal femur 8.7 mm. 



Creobroter episcopalis Stal. 



1877. C[reohoter] episcopalis St&l, Bih. till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl, 

 IV, No. 10, p. 86. [ 9 , Borneo.! 



Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 1 9 . 



This specimen agrees fully with Stal's description, except that 

 it is larger than the type. The sharply conical eyes, lack of spine 

 or denticulation above the ocelli, granulose surface of the pronotum 

 and tegminal markings are particularly noteworthy features. 



Length of body 30, length of pronotum 6, greatest pronotal width 

 3.8, length of tegmen 19.5, width of tegminal marginal field 1.8, 

 length of cephalic femur 7.9, length of caudal femur 6.5 mm. 



6th Group, Pseudocreobotr^. 



Theopropus elegans (Westwood). 



1832. Blepharis elegans Westwood, in Griffith, Anim. Kingd., XV, p. 190, 

 pi. LXXVIII, fig. 3. [ 9 ; Tanesserim [error for Tenasserim] Coast.] 



British North Borneo, (from Fruhstorfer), 1 9 . 

 Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 . 

 Labuan Island, British North Borneo, 19. 



The three specimens of this remarkable species here recorded 

 all agree closely in size, coloration and color pattern. 




82 proceedings of the academy of [feb., 



Explanation of Plates. 



Plate I. — Fig. 1. — Kongobatha diademata new species. Queensland, Australia. 

 Female. Type. Cephalic aspect of head. (X7.) 



Fig. 2. — Kongobatha diademata new species. Queensland, Australia. Fe- 

 male. Type. Latero-external outline of cephalic tibia. (XlO.) 



Fig. 3. — Polyacanthopus mantispoides new species. Sandakan, British North 

 Borneo. Male. Type. Cephalic aspect of head. (X7.) 



Fig. 4i.— Polyacanthopus mantispoides new species. Sandakan, British North 

 Borneo. Male. Type. Latero-external outline of cephaliclimb. (X6.) 



Fig. 5. — Sceptuchus simplex new species. Singapore, British Straits Settle- 

 ments. Male. Type. Cephalic aspect of head. (X7.) 



Fig. 6. — Sceptuchus simplex new species. Singapore, British Straits Settle- 

 ments. Male. Type. Latero-external outline of cephalic tibia. (XlO.) 



Fig. 7. — Amantis acta new species. Mount Banahao, Luzon, Philippine 

 Islands. Male. Type. Cephalic aspect of head. (X7.) 



Fig. 8. — Amantis hasilana new species. Island of Basilan, Philippine Is- 

 lands. Male. Type. Cephalic aspect of head. (X7.) 



Fig. 9. — Amantis basilana new species. Island of Basilan, Philippine Is- 

 lands. Male. Type. Latero-external outline of cephahc tibia. (XlO.) 



Fig. 10. — Tagalomantis manillensis (Saussure). Los Banos, Luzon, Philip- 

 pine Islands. Male. Latero-internal aspect of cephalic femur. (X5.) 



Fig. 11. — Leptomantis tdnkinae new species. Than-Moi, Tonkin. Female. 

 Type. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X6.) 



Fig. 12. — Leptomantis tonkinae new species. Than-Moi, Tonkin. Female. 

 Type. Latero-external outline of cephalic tibia. (XlO.) 



Fig. 13. — Aetaella bakeri new species. Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine 

 Islands. Male. Type. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X6.) 



Fig. 14:.— Aetaella bakeri new species. Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine 

 Islands. Male. Type. Latero-external outline of cephalic tibia. 

 (XlO.) 



Plate II. — Fig. 1. — Hierodula obiensis new species. Obi Island, Moluccas. 



Female. Allotype. Dorsal aspect. (Natural size.) 

 Fig. 2. — Hierodula obiensis new species. Obi Island, Moluccas. Male. 



Type. Dorsal aspect. (Natural size.) 

 Fig. 3. — -Hierodula splendida new species. Haidana, British New Guinea. 



Male. Type. Dorsal aspect of head and pronotum. (XlH-) 

 Fig. 4. — Acromantis luzonica new species. Baguio, Luzon, Philippine 



Islands. Male. Type. Dorsal aspect of pronotum. (X43^.) 

 Fig. 5. — Acromantis dyaka new species. Labuan Island, British North 



Borneo. Female. Type. Dorsal aspect. (X2.) 

 Fig. 6. — Creobroter granulicollis Saussure. Singapore, British Straits Settle- 

 ments. Male. Dorsal aspect of pronotum. (X43^.) 

 Fig. 7. — Creobroter labuanae new species. Labuan Island, British North 



Borneo. Male. Type. Dorsal aspect of pronotum. (Xj^j-i.) 

 Fig. 8. — Creobroter meleagris Stal. Los Banos, Luzon, Philippine Islands. 



Male. Dorsal aspect of pronotum. iX4}4-) 

 Fig. 9. — Amantis acta new species. Mount Banahao, Luzon, Philippine 



Islands. Male. Type. Dorsal aspect of pronotum. (X8.) 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE I. 



HEBARD : MALAYAN, PAPUAN, AND AUSTRALIAN MANTIDAE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE 11. 



HEBARD: MALAYAN: PAPUAN, AND AUSTRALIAN MANTIDAE. 





1920.] NATURA.T SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



March 16. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Forty-six persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: Robert E. 

 Peary and Reuben Haines; and Sir James A. Grant, a Correspondent. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown made a communication on: "Native 

 Orchids of Pennsylvania and New Jersey in the Herbarium of the 

 Academy," and Mr. J. Fletcher Street exhibited a series of 

 elegantly colored lantern slides of local orchids and associated plants. 

 (No abstracts.) 



The following were elected members: J. Franklin McFadden, 

 Lawrence J. Morris, Edward R. Wood, Jr., T. Wistar Brown, 3rd, 

 Hugh F. Munro, Joseph G. Lovering, Frank B. Bower,and Astley 

 P. C. Ashhurst. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of the follow- 

 ing papers for publication: 



" Scrophulariacese of the Southeastern United States," by Fran- 

 cis W. Pennell. 



''MoUusca from Central America and Mexico," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



"Notes on New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Virginia Fishes," by 

 Henry W. Fowler. 



"Costa Rican Land and Freshwater Mollusks," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



"Studies in Malayan, Papuan and Australian Mantidse," by 

 Morgan Hebard. 



"Observations on the Soil Acidity of Ericaceae and Associated 

 Plants in the Middle Atlantic States," by Edgar T. Wherry. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE SOIL ACIDITY OF ERICACEAE AND ASSOCIATED 

 PLANTS IN THE MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES. 



BY EDGAR T. WHERRY. 



In a recent paper^ the writer described the results obtained on a 

 trip in northern New England in June, 1919, where indicator solu- 

 tions were carried into the field and tests made of the soil reactions 

 of a number of species of Ericaceae and other families of plants 

 thought to be sensitive in this respect. ^ Both before and since 

 that trip similar observations have been made at a number of places 

 in Pennsylvania and adjoining states, and in the present paper some 

 of the results obtained are described^ The field work has been 

 carried out largely at the writer's own expense, in the course of vaca- 

 tion outings, but funds for certain trips were obtained from the 

 U. S. Bureau of Plant Industry, through Mr. Frederick V. Coville, 

 Botanist of the Bureau. 



The regions in which these observations have been made are 

 presented in the following table, with summaries of their dominant 

 geological and soil features. Those in the Appalachian Mountain 

 and Piedmont Provinces are given first, from northeast to south- 

 west, and then those on the Atlantic Coastal Plain, from north to 

 south. 



Table I. 



Features of regions studied. 



Locality State Surface Soil Dominant Ericaceae 



Geology Character soU reaction'' 



Appalachian Mountain and Piedmont. (Alleghanian Zone.) 



Swamps north Siliceoiis gla- Bog and up- Mediacid Abundant 



of Dover N.J. cial drift land peats 



^Rhodora, 21:33-49, 1920. 



^The use of indicators for this purpose has been described in Journ. Wash. 

 Acad. Sci., 10:217-233, 1920. Sets of indicators for field work are now on the 

 market. 



^Southern New Jersey will be discussed in these Proceedings at a later date. 



^The terms used for describing soil reactions have been defined in Journ. 

 Wash. Acad. Sci., 9:305, 1919. Specific acidity is the amount of acid, and spe- 

 cific alkalinity the amount of alkali, present in a given solution, with reference 

 to pure water as the unit. Specific acidity between 1 and 10 is called minim- 

 acid, between 10 and 100 subacid, between 100 and 1000 mediacid, and above 

 1000 superacid. Corresponding terms are used on the alkaline side. In addi- 

 tion, minimacid, neutral and minimalkaline reactions are grouped together as 

 circumneutral. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



85 



Grateful acknowledgement is made herewith to those who have 

 acted as guides in several of these places; to Dr. Everett G. Logue 

 and Mr. John P. Young, in central Pennsylvania; Messrs. Harold 

 W. Pretz and Edward S. Mattern, in eastern Pennsylvania; Pro- 

 fessor H. Justin Roddy, in southern Pennsylvania; and to Mr. 

 Harry W. Trudell, who has taken part in many of the expeditions, 

 and whose aid in pressing specimens of plants and in many other 

 respects has greatly facilitated the covering of the ground and the 

 obtaining of the data. 



Descriptions of Individual Localities 



A. Appalachian Mountain and Piedmont. (Alleghanian Zone.) 



Swamps north of Dover and south of Green Pond (Warren County) 



New Jersey. 



These two localities in the New Jersey Highlands were selected 

 from the large number available because they are easily accessible 

 and appear to furnish the maximum possible contrast in soil acidity 

 relations. Dover is on the main line of the Delaware, Lackawanna 

 and Western Railroad about 65 kilometers (40 miles) northwest of 

 New York City; Green Pond (one of several bodies of water in New 

 Jersey bearing that name) is two miles east of Bridgeville station, 

 on the "old line" of the same railroad, about 20 km. (12 miles) 

 southeast of Delaware Water Gap. In the swamps 3 km. (2 miles) 

 north of Dover, the country rock is granitic gneiss, and the glacial 

 drift is dominantly siliceous in character, the swamp waters being 

 as a result mediacid. In those south of Green Pond the country 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll,. 



rock, at least of the valley in which the pond lies, is limestone, and 

 the glacial drift contains abundant fragments of calcareous rocks; 

 the pond is fed by springs arising through limestone, so that its 

 water is subalkaline, and similar reactions are shown by the waters 

 at various places in the swamps along the stream draining the pond. 

 Marked differences in flora, in so far as its members, are sensitive 

 to soil reaction, would be expected to appear on comparing these 

 two regions. 



Ericaceae (used in the broad sense) are actually far more abundant 

 in the Dover region, forming dense thickets; and two of them, 

 Kalmia latifolia and Vaccinium corymhosum, become small trees. 

 Clethra almfolia, Euhotrys racemosa, and Gaultheria procu7nbens may 

 be noted as species which grow here btit appear to be absent at 

 Green Pond. Noteworthy members of families other than Ericaeae 

 present in some abundance are: Sniilax rotundifolia, Habenaria 

 psycodes, Coptis trifolia, Spiraea tomentosa, and Ilidoides mucronata; 

 all these are absent or rare at Green Pond. To those who are sus- 

 ceptible to Rhus poisoning, the Dover swamps will be found far 

 more pleasant than the Green Pond ones, for in the former R. vernix 

 and R. toxicodendron are very rare. 



While the water of the Green Pond swamps is more or less alka- 

 line in reaction, soils of definite and even high acidity are also pres- 

 ent there, in the form of hummocks and mounds of decaying vege- 

 table matter mingled with sphagnum and other mosses. On as- 

 cending these the reaction becomes less alkaline, passes through 

 neutrality, and often reaches mediacid character at the top. The 

 Ericaceae growing in this swamp are exclusively limited to such 

 mounds. The species noted comprise: Azalea nudiflora (rare); 

 A. viscosa; Kalmia angustifolia; Xolisma ligusirina; Gaylussacia 

 haccata (rare) ; Vaccinium corymhosum; and Vaccinium macrocarpon. 

 The soils of these were found to range from mediacid to subacid, 

 their roots apparently not extending into material so moistened by 

 the swamp water as to have less acidity than this. Notable plants 

 of other families showing the same relations are : Cypripedium acaule, 

 Coptis trifolia, Menyanthes trifoliata, and Linnaea borealis var. 

 americana. 



On the other hand there are here a number of plants which grow 

 entirely or chiefly in soils bathed by the alkaline water, and ranging 

 from neutral to subalkaline in reaction. Such are Cypripedium hir- 

 sutuni (reginae), C. candidum, Betula pumila, Caltha palustris, Par- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 87 



nassia caroliniana, Rhamnus almjolia, and an appalling abundance 

 of Rhus vernix and R. toxicodendron. All these but the last two 

 seem quite absent from the Dover swamps. 



The pitcher plant, Sarracenia purpurea, grows in both swamps, 

 in the Green Pond one only in the moss hummocks; and the water 

 in the ''pitchers" shows some peculiar reactions. The writer has 

 tested the water held by this plant in many localities, and has found 

 it to be usually mediacid, or subacid, the acidity being no doubt due 

 chiefly to dissolved carbon dioxide. In the Green Pond swamp, 

 however, the water in the pitchers was found to be minimacid, neu- 

 tral and even minimalkaline. It is possible that the plant may be 

 able to absorb lime from the moss in which it is rooted, and excrete 

 it into the pitcher liquid. It seems more probable, however, that 

 lime is absorbed by the roots of the larch trees, (which are abundant 

 in the Green Pond Swamps, though rare at Dover,) and of other 

 shrubs and trees growing in the alkaline water; and that this lime, 

 excreted upon the leaves of these trees, is washed off by the rain 

 and thus gets into the upturned pitchers. 



. Mountain Ridges in the Central Counties of Pennsylvania. 



Tests have been made of the soils of Ericaceae and other plants 

 at a number of places in the mountains of Pennsylvania, from Scran- 

 ton on the northeast to Williamsport on the northwest, and from 

 Bethlehem on the southeast to Mont Alto on the southwest. A 

 few of the most interesting localities will be described here in some 

 detail, starting at the northeast end. 



The most prominent ridges in the region are underlain by sand- 

 stone rocks, and the soils they yield are mostly mediacid to sub- 

 acid. Lower elevations are occupied by shale rocks, which may also 

 give rise to strongly acid soils. Under circumstances where accumu- 

 lation of vegetable matter is prevented, the reactions connected with 

 both these rock types may be minimacid to neutral. As an illus- 

 tration, it may be noted that the fern Cryptogramma stelleri (Pellaea 

 gracilis) usually described in manuals as a limestone species, was 

 collected at Lincoln Falls, Sullivan County, miles away from any 

 limestone. The rock is a red shale (of Devonian age) and the water 

 oozing from it is neutral in reaction. 



At South Stroudsburg the Rhododendron nursery of W. K. Labar 

 was visited, and the methods of growing ericaceous plants there 

 were kindly demonstrated by Mr. John van Kleef, the resident 

 manager. The natural soil of this place is a calcareous glacial 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



drift, averaging minimacid in reaction. A few Ericaceae, notably 

 Rhododendron maximum and Kalmia latifolia, grow there naturally, 

 and it has been found possible to introduce many other species. 

 The acidity found seems rather low, judging from what has been ob- 

 served in the course of these studies, for these plants to make the 

 best growth, but peaty material of sornewhat more acid reaction — 

 subacid — is being brought from the Pocono region, and mixed with 

 the native soil, the result being highly satisfactory. At most other 

 places within the glaciated area the drift is dominantly siliceous, 

 and the soil reactions more strongly acid, Ericaceae being wide- 

 spread and abundant at many points. 



It was particularly desired to obtain data as to the behavior of 

 ericaceous plants at or near a contact of a siliceous rock with a lime- 

 stone; and one such locaUty was found, near the country club, 

 some 3 km. (2 miles) east of Williamsport, Lycoming County. 

 Near the main road (from Williamsport to Montoursville) there is 

 an old limestone quarry; on the waste ground around it is a dense 

 thicket of various shrubs bearing small, juicy fruits; the call of 

 catbirds from the thicket suggesting how these shrubs may have been 

 introduced. There were one or more species of Celtts, Prunus, 

 Crataegus, Rhus, Celastrus, Samhucus, etc., present; but in spite of 

 thorough search, not a single member of the Ericaceae could be found, 

 although colonies of these plants, from which the birds no doubt 

 obtain much food, are present within a few hundred meters. Evi- 

 dently the seeds of the Ericaceae, when they fall into the limestone 

 soil, either do not germinate at all, of if they do, the young plants 

 soon succumb. Tests of the soil showed its reaction to vary from 

 neutral to minimalkaline. 



Going north from this quarry, around the end of a golf course, 

 the limestone rock gives way to shale and this in turn to sandstone, 

 a thin oak woods spreading over the contacts of these formations. 

 As the limestone is receded from, the soils become more and more 

 acid, and Ericaceae gradually appear. The first species was found 

 to be Vaccinium vacillans; its soil proved to be minimacid. Gay- 

 lussacia baccata and Azalea nudiflora come in a short distance fur- 

 ther on; their soils being minimacid to subacid. On reaching the 

 sandstone formation Ericaceae appear in abundance, the above 

 mentioned species being still present, and in addition Kalmia lati- 

 folia, GauUheria procumbens, Epigaea repens and Vaccinium corym- 

 bosum. Various species of pine trees, and other acid soil plants, 

 such as Lupinus perennis, come in here also; and tests of the soi- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 89 



showed subacid to mediacid reaction. The control of the distribul 

 tion of Ericaceae by the soil reaction is here so evident as to require 

 no further comment. 



No other locahties in the mountain region need special descrip- 

 tion, the acidities of the soils of Ericaceae observed there being 

 included below, but the data which have been obtained on a few 

 plants of other families than Ericaceae may be added here. The 

 following were found to be limited to mediacid or occasionally sub- 

 acid soils: Clintonia borealis, Trillium erythrocarjnim, Tiarella cordi- 

 folia, DaUharda repens, Waldsteinia fragarioides, Oxalis acetosella, 

 Poll/gala pa ucif olia, a.nd Trientalis borealis. In circumneutral soils, 

 rarely ranging to subacid, characteristic plants are: Cryptogramma 

 stelleri (Pellaea gracilis), Filix fragilis, F. bulbifera, Camptosorus 

 rhizophyllus, Allium tricoccum, Aquilegia canadensis, and Castilleja 

 coccinea. Wide range of reaction is shown by Taxus canadensis, 

 Trillium erectum, Clematis verticillaris, Hepatica acutiloba, Viola 

 pedata, etc. Finally it may be noted that Phlox subulata, while its 

 acidity range is wide, shows more or less correlation of flower-color 

 with soil reaction, in that the deep rose-violet flowered plants are 

 usually found to grow in soil of lower acidity than those with pale 

 rose or white flowers. There are, of course, cases in which both 

 grow in close association, and where this relation does not hold, but 

 in general it seems to be fairly definite. 



Valleys in East Central Counties of Pennsylvania 



The Lehigh-Lebanon valley of eastern Pennsylvania is largely 

 underlain by limestone rocks, but at many places there is a thin 

 layer of glacial drift over the limestone. The soil reactions assoc- 

 iated with such a geological relationship and the resulting distri- 

 bution of Ericaceae are matters of considerable interest. Tests have 

 shown that the soil of unprotected limestone rock is normally mini- 

 malkaline or neutral in reaction; but that where the glacial drift 

 occurs, upland peat tends to develop, often reaching a minimacid 

 and occasionally even as high as subacid reaction. Woods in which 

 many acid soil plants grow can develop in such drift-covered places, 

 but where these woods are cut over and the acid upland peat material 

 is given a chance to decompose, the acidity may decrease decidedly. 

 No doubt under such circumstances those species which require the 

 most acid conditions die out rapidly, while those which can adapt 

 themselves to a less degree of acidity persist for some time, even to 

 the point where the reaction goes down to the neutral point. 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



In the "Big Woods," about 6.5 km. (4 miles) southwest of Allen- 

 town, Lehigh County, Pa., the drift covering is thick enough to per- 

 mit the growth of pine trees, and tests have shown the soil acidity 

 of the upland peat to range from subacid down to minimacid. Here 

 were noted the Ericaceae: Pyrola americana, Chimaphila maculata, 

 C. unibellata, Gayhissacia baccata, and Vaccinium stmnineum. In 

 addition Cypripedium acaule and Viola pedata, regarded as acid 

 soil plants, thrive here. 



Some 5 km. (3 miles) northwest of this point is a small knoll 

 formerly occupied by similar woods, but cut over several years ago. 

 The humus has been extensively destroyed, and the soil acids neu- 

 tralized by the underlying limestone, so that the acidity at present 

 is minimacid, but the following Ericaceae have persisted: Azalea 

 nudiflora, Gaylussacia baccata, Vaccinium stamineum, V. vacillans, 

 and V . cory7nbosum. With these are Coynptonia asplenifolia {pere- 

 grina) and Viola pedata, the soil of the last in some cases reaching 

 actual neutrality, a rather unusual occurrence. (This observation 

 was made in early spring; later in the season slight acidity may 

 develop there). 



Similar relations have been observed at some five localities, and are 

 no doubt present at other places through this limestone valley, but 

 nowhere have Ericaceae or other plants usually limited to highly 

 acid soils been found to grow in the neutral to subalkaline soils of 

 the limestone itself. 



Hills in Southeastern Counties of Pennsylvania. 



Describing in this province, as in previous ones, only particularly 

 interesting occurrences, mention may first be made of a contact of 

 sandstone and limestone at Fruitville, Lancaster County. On the 

 sandstone, where the soils range in acidity from mediacid down, 

 Ericaceae such as Azalea nudiflora, Gaylussacia baccata, Vaccinium 

 stamineum, and V. vacillans are abundant. On passing over the 

 contact toward the limestone side, these gradually die out, but two 

 of them, the Gaylussacia and Vaccinium vacillans, extend into lime- 

 stone soil of neutral reaction. It should be noted, however, that 

 these plants are there stunted and obviously not thriving; and they 

 are absent entirely when the soil becomes actually alkaline. 



Thus far acidity data have been given chiefly for sandstone and 

 limestone, so it may be of interest to add what has been observed, 

 in the present region, about other formations. Mica schist and mica 

 gneiss seem to yield normally subacid reactions. Trap rock (diabase) 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 91 



in spite of a rather high content of alkah and alkahne earth metals, — 

 sodium, calcium, magnesium,— gives mostly subacid to minimacid 

 soils. Serpentine behaves similarly, and subacid or even mediacid 

 soils often develop, in spite of the magnesimn content. The red 

 shale formation of Triassic age, which covers a wide area in this part 

 of Pennsylvania, yields subacid soils in many places, but since some 

 of its strata contain considerable calcium carbonate, minimacid, 

 neutral, and even minimalkaline soils are at times present upon it. 

 The abundance of Ericaceae on these several formations has been 

 found to follow closely the development of soils of subacid or 

 mediacid reaction. 



Hills Northwest of Washington, D. C. 



On coming further south, the rocks are mostly more fully decom- 

 posed than they are in Pennsylvania, and the alkali metals are more 

 extensively leached out, so that hills are often covered with dense 

 clays, showing but little similarity to the original rocks. Subacid 

 soils have been found to be dominant in such situations, and Erica- 

 ceae accordingly fairly common. Along the Potomac Valley north- 

 west of Washington, D. C, the clays are considerably eroded, and 

 the solid rock exposed; but here a secondary factor influences the 

 soil reaction. The Potomac River and its tributaries flow for long 

 distances through limestone regions, and take up considerable 

 amounts of calcium bicarbonate. Not only does this make the 

 waters themselves minimalkaline, but the sands and muds deposited 

 at flood times also contain so much calcareous matter as to render 

 the soils there circumneutral in reaction. Accordingly the Erica- 

 ceae, which grow on the uplands, drop off markedlj^ as the level of 

 river deposition is approached, and circumneutral-soil plants are 

 common at the lower levels. 



Mountain Ridges of West Virginia. 



In the mountains of West Virginia, conditions are similar to 

 those in the corresponding regions of Pennsylvania. The Ericaceae 

 characteristic of the southern Appalachian Mountains reach their 

 northern limits there, but they have not been found to show on the 

 whole any differences in soil acidity from the Ericaceae which also 

 grow farther north. The upland peat of the great RJiododendron 

 thickets is mediacid to subacid in reaction, the plant roots usually 

 extending down into material of the lesser acidity. The reactions 

 of the soils of individual species are listed below. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



B. Coastal Plain. (Carolinian Zone.) 

 Pine Barrens and Marginal Areas of New Jersey. 



The correlation between soils and plants in southern New Jersey 

 will be discussed by the writer elsewhere. The following is a 

 summary of the conclusions there reached. 



As every botanist interested in plant distribution has undoubtedly 

 become acquainted with Stone's "Plants of Southern New Jersey, " 

 no description of the plants of this region need be given here. As to 

 soils, although pure quartz sand should react neutral toward indi- 

 cators, that of the Pine-barren area seems to be always more or less 

 acid, no doubt owing to the accumulation of invisible humus matter 

 between the grains; and where the humus is prominent, the reaction 

 is usually mediacid, so that the Pine-barren area can be regarded 

 as essentially a vast expanse of highly acid soils. On digging down 

 through the surface layers of these soils, the acidity gradually 

 decreases, and at a depth of three or four decimeters may be minima- 

 cid. Road-cuts and stream valleys through the region readily 

 reach the levels of lower acidity, and on their banks grow plants 

 which do best under somewhat less acid conditions, AspJenium platy- 

 neuron being a typical example. 



The upper part of the Middle District or Marl area differs from 

 the Pine-barren area in that mediacid soils are comparatively rare, 

 the sands containing greater amounts of compounds of calcium 

 and other elements which tend to neutralize more or less such acids 

 as develop. The strata of Cretaceous age which outcrop are well 

 known to contain considerable calcium carbonate derived from 

 fossil shells, and the soil has in fact been found to reach neutral or 

 even minimalkaline reaction in certain places, as for instance, the 

 Lindenwold bog. In the Cohansey and Cape May areas the acidity 

 also averages low, the source of the lime appearing to be sediments 

 deposited in Quaternary times by the Delaware River, which 

 drains vast areas of limestone rocks in its upper reaches, and the 

 water of which is today slightly alkaline. In the Coastal area 

 the sandy soils are mediacid as in the Pine-barrens, but contain 

 considerable sodium chloride, calcium sulfate, etc., so that plants 

 which require high content of salts, but are indifferent to acidity 

 as such, together with those which require acidity but are tolerant 

 of salts, are characteristic of this area. 



The distribution of plants is evidently controlled to a marked 

 degree by these features of the soils. As Stone remarks "The 

 Pines seem to be the chosen land of the Ericaceae, which abound 




1920.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



there both in species and individuals."'^ Many ericaceous species 

 which are shown by studies in other regions to prefer mediacid or 

 high subacid soils thrive in the Pine-barrens, whereas those requir- 

 ing less acid conditions, such as the Pyrolas and Chimaphilas, are 

 there infrequent, rare or unknown. On the other hand, plants 

 which in the north are regarded as " calciphiles " — circumneutral 

 soil plants — extend into southern New Jersey only along the marginal 

 regions. To give but one example, Gentiana crinita is, as noted by 

 Stone, a rarity in southern New Jersey; but in the Lindenwold bog 

 it grows in wonderful abundance, being limited to the lower levels, 

 where the calcareous strata outcrop, and neutralize the soil. 



Southern Delaware. 



During March, 1919, the writer visited the region around Mills- 

 boro, Sussex County, Delaware, to study the soil acidity as related 

 to the distribution of native plants. The selection of this particular 

 place was due to the reported occurrence there of the box-leaved 

 huckleberry, Gaylussacia brachycera (Michx.), of which living speci- 

 mens were desired. The earliness of the trip was determined by the 

 fact that this plant is an evergreen and seemed likely to be most 

 readily found before the leaves had developed on the majority of 

 other plants. After several days', search a single small colony of 

 the Gaylussacia was located, many acidity tests of the soils met 

 with being carried out in the course of the trip. The results of these 

 studies are here presented; since this region is less well known than 

 those previously described, it is treated in greater detail. 



The Millsboro region lies on that part of the Atlantic Coastal 

 Plain known as the Delaware Peninsula or "Eastern Shore" (of 

 Chesapeake Bay) District, about 16 km. (10 miles) back from the 

 sea coast, and a like distance from the southern boundary of the 

 state of Delaware. It is best reached by train on the Franklin City 

 branch of the Delaware, Maryland and Virginia Railroad, a part 

 of the Pennsylvania system, running south from Wilmington, Dela- 

 ware. It is a region of low relief, the Indian River, which traverses 

 it, being a tidal estuary, while the maximum elevation is little over 

 12 meters (40 feet) above sea level. The geological formation ex- 

 posed at the surface of the ground is the Talbot formation, of Pleis- 

 tocene age, consisting of unconsolidated sand, with occasional 

 lenses of gravel and of clay, and the soils correspond in character. 



5The Plants of Southern New Jersey. . . . Trenton, 1911, p. 617. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



The growing season, or interval between average dates of minimum 

 temperatures of 0° C (32° F.), is about 200 days in length. 



The region around Millsboro is farmed extensively, but the native 

 vegetation is preserved here and there, especially along the banks 

 of streams. The dominant tree is Pinus taeda, and mingled with it 

 are P. serotina, P. echinata, P. rigida, and P. virginiana. Oaks, 

 maples, and gums are the principal deciduous trees. In the swamps 

 occur Chamaecyparis thuyoides and rarely Taxodium distichum. A 

 striking feature of the pine forests is the sparsity of the undergrowth, 

 in which they resemble the southern rather than the New Jersey 

 Pine-barren regions.^ 



The most prominent smaller trees and shrubs include Myrica 

 caroliniensis, Magriolia virginiana, Alnns rugosa and the southern 

 species A. maritima, Ilex opaca, I. glabra, Pyrus (Aronia) arhutifolia, 

 Aralia spinosa, Cornus florida, and some 15 ericaceous plants, divi- 

 sible into two groups: those of mediacid, and those of subacid 

 soil. The mediacid soil species which mostly grow in swamps, are: 

 Clethra alnifolia. Azalea viscosa, Kalmia angustifoha, Euhotrys race- 

 mosa, Xolisma ligustrina, Gaultheria procumhens and Vaccinium 

 corymhosum. The Gaylussacia hrachycera itself grows in dry upland 

 peat with mediacid to high subacid reaction. The species more 

 characteristic of dry subacid soils are: Chimaphila maculata, C. 

 umhellata, Azalea nudiflora, Kahnia latifolia, Epigaea repens, 

 Gaylussacia baccata, and Vaccinium vacillans. 



Mediacid reaction was found to be present practically throughout 

 the swamps, both in the water and the peat, and also in upland 

 peat of the dry hills. On digging down into the sand beneath such 

 upland peat, the acidity was found to decrease markedly, the meas- 

 urements being: Surface, specific acidity 300; 25 centimeters down, 

 100; 50 cm. down, 30; and 100 cm. down, 10. As in the New Jersey 

 Pine-barrens, both natural and artificial depressions often show the 

 lower acidities on their banks, which relation controls to a certain 

 extent the distribution of plants. 



Two plants were observed to grow in this region which are else- 

 where characteristic of circumneutral soils, Asplenimn platyneuron 

 and Aquilegia canadensis. The first appears chiefly in isolated 

 patches in the pine woods, where either because of the presence of 

 bacteria able to decompose the acid constituents of the upland peat, 



^Compare Harper, Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, 37: 426, 1910; Bull. Geogr. Soc. 

 Phila. 16: 14, 1918. 




1920.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



or of lenses of calcareous clay, the acidity of the soils is markedly 

 diminished. These areas, mostly only a few meters in diameter, 

 and more or less circular in outline, are scattered through the woods, 

 forming in a sense oases in the desert; with the exception of Chima- 

 phila maculata, the Ericaceae appear to avoid them. Wherever 

 Asplenium showed up in the forest floor, — and it was very prominent, 

 the fronds attaining lengths of as much as 40 cm., — tests invariably 

 showed the area it occupied to be subacid or circumneutral in reac- 

 tion. Presumably the spores of this fern are killed when they fall 

 into the more acid soils of the region. 



The Aquilegia, together with a few plants of Asplenium, was 

 observed in quite a different habitat, namely, on the steep banks 

 of the Indian River. The low acidities observed were in this case 

 obviously connected with, the fact that the plant roots entered 

 directly the lower layers of the soil, which are everywhere less acid 

 than the surface portions. Epigaea repeals was also found to grow 

 on the same banks, but its roots do not enter the low acid sands to 

 any extent, being instead imbedded in superficial peaty material 

 wdth the usual mediacid reaction. 



Another type of relationship is shown by Yucca filamentosa, the 

 optimum for which appears to lie at specific acidity 30. This plant 

 grows, apparently as a native and not an escape, in large patches 

 in the more open pine woods, where the surface soil is upland peat 

 with mediacid reaction. It has, however, an erect underground 

 stem 25 or more cm. long, at the base of which is a cluster of tuber- 

 ous roots, with fibrous ones extending downward from them. As 

 far as its root system is concerned, therefore, this species is growdng 

 not in highly acid, but in subacid soils. 



Region East of Washington, D. C. 



The region east of Washington is so similar to the New Jersey 

 and Delaware areas already discussed that little need be said about 

 it at this point. Plant distribution is elaborately treated in a 

 recent publication.^ The magnolia bogs as therein defined are 

 dominantly mediacid in reaction, and the upland peat of the dry 

 surrounding hillsides attains the same acidity, so that Ericaceae 

 and their usual associates abound in both habitats. Subacid and 

 rarely minimacid soils occur on banks and locally through the woods, 

 and support a few plants which can not stand the higher acidities. 



^McAtee, W. L. A sketch of the Natural History of the District of Columbia, 

 Bull. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1: 142 pp., 1918. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



Many tests made in this region are included in the tables for indivi- 

 dual ericaceous species which follow. 



Observations on Individual Species 



In order to bring out the acidity relations of the individual species, 

 the plan suggested in the paper above cited* has been modified 

 in such a manner that while the specific acidities are plotted hori- 

 zontally the number of places where each value has been observed 

 are now plotted vertically. Thus, on p. 97, when a given species 

 has been found to grow in a soil with specific acidity = 100 at two 

 different localities (or distinctly different habitats in the same 

 locality) an x is placed above the figure 100 and opposite the number 

 2. Observations in nurseries are marked with n, and those made 

 in other regions, which seem worth introducing for comparison, 

 with 0. A curve may be regarded as drawn through the points thus 

 marked, and from its shape the behavior of the plant with respect 

 to soil acidity may be seen at a glance. In most Ericaceae the curves 

 indicate that there is a definite limit to growth on the less acid side, 

 and sometimes on the more acid side as well. There is also in most 

 cases a maximum in the curve, — an intermediate point — at which 

 the species is observed to grow with such frequence and luxuriance 

 that this value is to be regarded as its optimum reaction under 

 natural conditions. 



Each species has been examined, on the average, at 10 localities 

 selected so as to show as wide a range of conditions as possible. 

 Tests have been made at each locality in sufficient number to insure 

 the records being typical of the occurrence. Identifications of the 

 plants have been made with care, specimens of each being preserved, 

 and in cases of uncertainty submitted to authorities on the groups 

 concerned. While freely admitting that there is room for additional 

 data from other regions the writer feels that in most cases observa- 

 tions enough have been made to justify accepting with some degree 

 of confidence the definiteness of the optimum and limiting reactions 

 indicated. 



The American code of Nomenclature is followed for the most 

 part; but the genus-splitting favored in Britton and Brown's 

 "Illustrated Flora" and the "North American Flora" is not accepted. 



^Rhodora, 21 : 43 1920. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Clethra alnifolia L. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat and occasionally dry upland peat 

 at swamp margins. 



The optimum soil reaction for this species is obviously mediacid. 

 The lower values sometimes observed represent places where the 

 plant pushes out from its usual swamp habitat into dry sandy woods. 

 The n in the table refers to a test of sandy soil in Gillett's nursery 

 at Southwick, Massachusetts, and is introduced to show that this 

 plant can be grown under cultivation in a soil of somewhat lower 

 initial acidity than it appears to occupy in nature. 



Pyrola americana Sweet. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat and occasionally moist peat at swamp 

 margins. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 



3 X 

 2' 



1 X X X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction for this species is subacid. The most 

 acid reaction tabulated was observed in moist peat at the margin 

 of a swamp north of Dover, N. J. The least acid was noted in up- 

 land peat on glacial drift overlying limestone in the Lehigh Valley 

 west of AUentown, Pa. 



Pyrola elliptica Nuttall. ' 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 X 



3 o 



2 o o 

 1 o 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



'In the succeeding tables these names are omitted for brevity. Their use in 

 the text will be understood to imply the same degree of acidity here indicated. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably between 

 subacid and minimacid; the tests made on it in New England, indi- 

 cated by o's, led to the same value. 



Pyrola secunda L. 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 X 



3 ' o 



2 o 



1 X o 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is inferred, from con- 

 sideration of the data from both New England and the present 

 region, to be subacid. The most acid reaction tabulated was ob- 

 served in sandy upland peat in southern Delaware. 



Chimaphila maculata (L.) Pursh. 

 Habitat. — Dry upland peat. 



Acidity. — • 



30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is subacid. The most 

 acid reaction was observed in sandy upland peat in southern Dela- 

 ware. The least acid was noted in upland peat on glacial drift 

 overlying limestone in the Lehigh Valley west of Allentown, Penn- 

 sylvania, and in upland peat over limestone at Natural Bridge, 

 Virginia. 



The optimun soil reaction of this species is subacid. The most 

 acid reaction was observed in sandy upland peat in southern Dela- 

 ware. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



Monotropa uniflora L. 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



Acidity. — ■ 



5+ X • 



4 



3 



2 X 



1 X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is subacid; its range is 



apparently rather more limited than those of preceding members of 



the Ericaceae. The most acid reaction was noted in sandy upland 



peat in southern Delaware; the least acid in clayey upland peat 



at two widely separated localities near Washington, D. C. 



Hypopitys lanuginosa (Miclix.) Nuttall 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



Tests have been made on Hypopitys chiefly during the winter, 

 and the species could not be accurately determined. Plants ap- 

 proaching H. lanuginosa in characters have been examined at two 

 localities near Washington, D. C, in clayey upland peat, and yielded 

 subacid reaction in both cases. 



Hsrpopitys americana (De Candolle) Small. 



, Habitat. — Dry upland peat. 



Plants probably referable to H. americana have been examined 

 near Dover, N. J., the soil being sandy upland peat over glacial 

 drift, and the reaction subacid. 



Azalea nudiflora L. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat and occasionally wet sphagnum peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 X 



3 



2 



1 X X X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is subacid. The most 

 acid reaction tabulated was observed in a swamp in southern Dela- 

 ware; the least acid in upland peat over calcareous glacial drift 

 near Green Pond, N. J. 



Azalea canescens D. Don. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat. 



This species has been observed but rarely, in the mountains of 

 central Pennsylvania; the soil in these cases is upland peat over 

 sandstone rocks, and the reaction subacid or rarely mediacid. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Azalea arborescens ?iirsli. 



Habitat. — Moist upland peat. 



This species has been observed in the mountains of eastern cen- 

 tral West Virginia, chiefly in Tucker county. The soil is moist 

 upland peat, and the usual reaction subacid. 



Azalea viscosa L. (including varieties glauca, nitida, etc.) 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat and occasionally dry upland peat 

 at swamp margins. 



The optimum soil reaction for this species is mediacid. The lower 

 values noted represent places where the plant pushes out from its 

 usual swamp habitat into dry sandy woods. The n in the table 

 refers to Gillett's nursery at Southw^ck, Massachusetts. This 

 makes with the preceding plant a pair of closely related species with 

 marked dissimilarity in optimum soil reaction. 



Rhododendron maximum L. 



Habitat. — Moist and occasionally dry upland peat and wet sphag- 

 num peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 



3 X 



2 XX 



1 X X " 



300 100 30-10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction for this species appears to subacid, 

 but its range is unusually wide. The most acid reaction tabulated 

 represents occurrences in sphagnum peat in a swamp in central 

 Lycoming County, Pa., and in moist upland peat in the mountains 

 of West Virginia. The two least acid values were observed in upland 

 peat on calcareous glacial drift east of Williamsport, Pa. While 

 some of the roots of these plants were found to be surrounded by 

 soils of these acidities, other roots of the same plants were in subacid 

 soils. Seedlings have been found most frequently in subacid soils. 



Menziesia pilosa (Michaux) Persoon. 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 101 



This species has been observed only on Spruce Mountain and 

 neighboring ridges in Pendleton County, West Virginia. The soils 

 are upland peats over sandstone rocks, and the reaction is subacid 

 to mediacid. 



Dendrium buxifolium (Berg) Desvaux. 



Habitat. — Moist and occasionally dry sand, and wet sphagnum 

 peat. 



This species has been observed at various places in central and 

 southern New Jersey, being especially prominent in the Pine-barrens. 

 Its soils show in practically every case a mediacid reaction, rarely 

 approaching subacidity. In its typical occurrences in white sand, 

 this acidity appears to be due to the presence of autogenous humus, 

 that is, humus formed by the decomposition of the leaves of the 

 plant itself. 



Kalmia latifolia L. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat and wet sphagnum peat. 



Acidity. 



5+ ' X 



4 X 



3 X 



2 



1 X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably subacid, 

 but it is of frequent occurrence in mediacid soils too. The lowest 

 acidity tabulated was noted in upland peat over calcareous glacial 

 drift near Stroudsburg, Pa. Seedlings have been observed most 

 frequently in subacid soils. 



Ka'tnia angustifolia L. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat, moist and dry upland peat, and 

 dry sand. 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably mediacid, 

 but it is also frequently found in subacid soils. In northern New 

 England it is most often met with in mediacid peat, and seedlings 

 have been observed only in such material. Subacid reactions have 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



been noted in upland peats in the Pennsylvania mountains, and in 

 gravel in the Saucon Valley, eastern Pennsylvania, as well as in Ver- 

 mont. And as indicated by the n in the table, it can be grown 

 under cultivation in soils of as low an acidity as minimacid. 



Eubotrys racemosa (L.) Nuttall. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat, wet and dry upland peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ 



4 XXX 



3 . 



2 



1 X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably subacid, 

 although it is also rather frequent in mediacid soils. The least 

 acid reaction listed was observed in an occurrence in dry upland 

 peat on schistose rocks northwest of Washington, D. C. 



Neopieris mariana (L.) Britton. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat and occasionally moist peat. 



Acidity. — 



10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably mediacid. 

 The least acid reaction tabulated was observed in dry sand south 

 of the New Jersey Pine-barrens. 



Xolisma ligustrina (L.) Britton. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat and wet sphagnum peat. 



Acidity. — 

 5+ 



4 X X ■ 



3 X 



2 

 1 X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably subacid, 

 although it is also of frequent occurrence in mediacid soils. The 

 least acid value tabulated was noted in dry upland peat on calcar- 

 eous glacial drift near Green Pond, New Jersey. 



Chamaedaphne calyculata (L.) Moench. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat and occasionally dry upland peat. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably mediacid. 

 The lowest acidities tabulated, marked o, represent an occurrence 

 south of Willoughby Lake, Vt., where the plant grows at the margin 

 of an alkaline water pond, and its roots push out as far as material 

 of this acidity. It is also grown in nurseries in dry sandy soil be- 

 tween subacid and minimacid in reaction. 



Oxydendrum arboreum (L.) DeCandoUe. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat. 



As observed in southern Virginia, this plant grows in woods 

 where the surface soil is mediacid, but its roots usually extend down 

 into material of subacid reaction. 



Epigaea repens L. 



Habitat.- — Dry upland peat and occasionally moist peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 X 



3 X 



2 X 



1 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably subacid, 

 although it is fairly common in mediacid soils as well. The least 

 acid reactions tabulated were observed in upland peats near Wash- 

 ington, D. C. The most heavily fruiting plants and the most 

 numerous seedlings have been found in subacid soils. 



Gaultheria procumbens L. 



Habitat. — Dry and moist upland peat, and wet sphagnum peat. 



Acidity.— 



5+ X 



4 



3 



2 XX 



1 o 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably mediacid, 

 although it is fairly common in subacid soils as well. The least 

 acid reaction (o) was observed in upland peat on calcareous glacial 

 drift near Fairlee, Vt. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Arctostaphylos uva-ursi L. 



Habitat. — Diy upland peat. 



This species has been observed at two widely separated localities 

 in the Pine-barrens of New Jersey, in upland peat and in white sand 

 rendered acid by autogenous humus, the reaction being medi- 

 acid. A soil sample from a colony growing on trap rock in south 

 central Connecticut, kindly submitted by Mr. C. A. Weatherby, 

 proved to be subacid. On the other hand, it is reported by Fernald^" 

 from cliffs of limestone at Bic, Quebec; and Mr. Coville informs the 

 writer that he has collected it on limestone north of Lake Superior. 

 In both these occurrences the soils are presumably at most minim- 

 acid, if not neutral or alkaline, which would indicate that the species 

 has a wide range of soil reaction. 



In the Alps something of the same sort has been noted. Accord- 

 ing to Schroeter:^^ 



"In Wallis it is according to Jaccard calciphilous, likewise in the 

 Bavarian Alps according to Sendner, while Contejean designates it 

 as calciphobous, and Mangin and Lecoq as indifferent. According 

 to my experience it is calciphilous in the Swiss Alps." Yet Warm- 

 ing" includes it among oxylophytes or acid soil plants. Further 

 study of this plant is desirable to ascertain whether there are any 

 varietal differences associated with these divergences of soil reaction. 



Chiogenes hispidula (L.) T. & G. 



Habitat. — Moist and occasionally dry upland peat and wet sphag- 

 num peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 



3 



2 o X 



1 X 



300 100 30 10 3 1, 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is mediacid, which has 

 been obtained at stations in the mountains of Pennsylvania and 

 West Virginia, as well as in northern New England. It is interest- 

 ing to note that Thoreau'^ pointed out that the Indian name for this 

 plant means "grows where trees have rotted," rotting wood being 

 usually strongly acid in reaction. 



^^Rhodora, 9: 163, 1907. 



"Das Pflanzenleben der Alpen, Zurich, 1908; p. 156. 

 "Oecology of plants, Oxford, 1909; page 211. . 



i*"The Maine Woods." 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Gaylussacia brachycera (Michx.) Gray. 



Hahiiat.—Dry upland peat. 



This species has been studied at the two stations known at present, 

 New Bloomfield, Pa., and Millsboro, Del.^^ In both places the 

 dominant soil acidity around its roots is mediacid, ranging to subacid 

 here and there. At the Pennsylvania locality the underlying clayey 

 soil (derived from disintegration of Devonian shale) is lower than 

 this in acidity, being minimacid, but the plant tends to avoid the 

 raw soil, and to grow most profusely wherever vegetable matter is 

 in course of decay. It follows especiall}^ the courses of old fallen 

 tree trunks, (and stumps), v/hich are thereby outlined in green 

 against the dominant browTi of the surrounding soil. In the Dela- 

 ware colony the underlying soil is white sand rendered mediacid by 

 admixture of humus and covered by a thick carpet of upland peat 

 made up of Kahnia leaves and pine needles; and the plant grows in 

 a single compact mat, some 20 feet in diameter, being apparently 

 prevented by climatic conditions or by some parasite from spread- 

 ing into similar soil surrounding the area. 



Gaylussacia dumosa (Andrews) T. & G. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat. 



This species has been observed in but two regions, the New Jersey 

 Pine-barrens and the Coastal Plain swamps east of Washington, 

 D. C. The dominant soil reaction in both places is mediacid. 



Gaylussacia frondosa (L.) T. & G. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat, moist and dry upland peat. 

 Acidity. — 



10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is mediacid. The low- 

 est acidity tabulated was observed in dry woods south of the New 

 Jersey Pine-barrens. 



Gaylussacia baccata (Wang.) Koch. 



Habitat. — Dry and moist upland peat and occasionally wet sphag- 

 num peat. 



^^Science, 50: 30-34, 1919. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March^. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 X 



3 



2 X X 



1 XX 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is subacid. The most 

 acid reactions tabulated were observed in swamps north of Dover, 

 N. J., and in southern Delaware. The least acid was noted in Lan- 

 caster County, Pa., at the contact of sandstone and limestone forma- 

 tions, this Gaylussacia, along with one Vacciniuin, extending a short 

 distance over on to the limestone side. 



Vaccinium stamineum L. 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



Acidity. — 



X 



30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction for this species is subacid. The least 

 acid reaction tabulated was observed in upland peat on decomposed 

 diorite-gneiss rock southwest of Allentown, Pa. 



Vaccinium pennsylvanicum Lamarck. 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



Acidity. — 



30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction for this species is apparently subacid. 

 In the White Mountains (indicated by the o in the table) its soils 

 are mediacid, but the plant there is distinct in several respects from 

 the one found in the Middle Atlantic States. In Gray's Manual 

 this northern form is distinguished (as var. angustifolium (Ait.) 

 Gray). The lowest acidities tabulated were observed near Wilkes- 

 barre. Pa., and on a sample of soil kindly submitted by Professor 

 George S. Perry of the Pennsylvania Forest Academy from near 

 Mont Alto. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Vaccinium vacillans Kalm. 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X 



4 X 



3 



2 X X XX 



1 



300 100 30 10 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is subacid. The least 

 acid reaction tabulated, actual neutrality, was observed in Lancas- 

 ter County, Pa., at the contact of sandstone and limestone forma- 

 tions, this species extending over onto the limestone. At other 

 contacts it is one of the earliest of the Ericaceae to appear as the 

 limestone is receded from. 



Vaccinium corjnmbosum L. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat and moist and occasionally dry 

 upland peat. 



Acidity. — 



5+ X X 



4 



3 X 



2 X 



1 X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably subacid, 

 although it is common in mediacid soils as well. The lowest acidi- 

 ties tabulated were observed in the Lehigh Valley west of Allentown, 

 Pa., in upland peat on glacial drift overlying limestone. 



Vaccinium ai.rococciun (A. Gray) Heller. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat and moist and occasionally dry 

 upland peat. 



Acidity. — 

 5+ 

 4 



3 XX 

 2 



1 X X X 



300 100 30 10 3 1 



The optimum soil reaction of this species is probably subacid. 

 The lowest acidity tabulated was observed in upland peat on glacial 

 drift overlying limestone in the Lehigh Valley west of Allentown, 

 Pa. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Vaccinium erythrocarpum Michaux. 



Habitat. — Moist and dry upland peat. 



This species has been observed only in the mountains in Pendle- 

 ton County, West Virginia. The soil acidity was found to be medi- 

 acid in most cases, occasionally ranging to subacid. 



Vaccinium oxycoccos L. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat. 



In addition to occurrences in New England, this species has been 

 observed only in a swamp in eastern Lycoming County, Pa.; in 

 all cases the soil is mediacid. 



Vaccinium macrocarpon Alton. 



Habitat. — Wet sphagnum peat. 



This species has been observed in swamps in many places in New 

 Jersey and Pennsylvania, the soil acidity being mediacid, or rarely 

 subacid. 



Pyxidanthera barbulata Michaux. 



Habitat. — Dry and occasionally moist upland peat. 



This species has been observed at many places in the New Jersey 

 Pine Barrens, in mediacid and rarely subacid upland peat and white 

 sand, the acidity of the latter being due to the development of auto- 

 genous humus beneath the mats of the plant. 



Galax aphylla L. 



Habitat.- — ^Dry upland peat. 



This plant has been observed in the mountains of southwestern 

 Virginia, growing in open woods, with Epigaea and various Vac- 

 cinium, in mediacid or less commonly subacid soils. 



Corema conradii Toney. 



Habitat. — Dry upland peat. 



Included here in view of the opinion of some botanists that this 

 family probably represents a degenerate member of the Ericales. 

 This species has been observed only in the Plains, east of Chats- 

 worth, in the heart of the New Jersey Pine-barrens. It grows in 

 white sand, mingled with autogenous humus, the reaction being 

 mediacid. 



By tabulating the data, the relative acidity requirements of the 

 various species may be made clearly evident. Bold face X's mark 

 optimum values, ordinary-face capitals frequently observed values, 

 small x's occasional ones, o's observations in other regions, and n's 

 tests in nurseries. 




1920.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 



Table 2. 

 Acidity Relations of Ericaceae Studies 



Medi- Sub- 

 acid acid 



300 100 30 

 Clethreae. 



Clethra alnifolia ' X x x 



Pyroleae 



Pyrola americana x x X 



elliptica o X 



secunda x X 



Chimaphila maculata x x X 



umbellata x x X 



MONOTROPOIDEAE 



Monotropa uniflora x X 



Hypopitys lanuginosa . X 



americana . X 



Ekicoideae (Ericaceae) 



Azalea nudiflora x x X 



canescens x x X 



arborescens . X 



viscosa '.... X x x 



Rhododendron maximum X X X 



Menziesia pilosa x x X 



Deridrium buxifolium X x 



Kalmia latifolia X X X 



angustifolia X X X 



Eubotrys racemosa X X X 



Neopieris mariana X x x 



Xolisma ligustrina X X X 



Chamaedaphne calyculata X x X 



Oxydendrum arboreum x x X 



Epigaea repens X X X 



Gaultheria procumbens X X X 



Arctostaphylos uva-ursi X X X 



Vaccinioideae (Vacciniaceae) 



Chiogenes hispidula X x x 



Gaylussacia brachycera X x x 



dumosa X 



frondosa X x x 



baccata x X X 



Vaccinium stamineum x ' X 



pennsylvanicum X X X 



vacillans X X X 



corymbosum X X X 



atrococcum x X X 



erythrocarpum X X X 



Oxycoccos X 



macrocarpon X x x 



Diapensiaceae 



Pyxidanthera barbulata X x x 



Galax aphylla X x x 



Empetraceae 



Corema eonradii X x 



Minim- Neutral 

 acid 



10 



1 



X 



X 



n 



X 

 X 



o 



X 



o 



o 




110 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



In table 3 the Orchidaceae found in the Middle States are tabu- 

 lated in a similar way. The article on this family previously pub- 

 lished by the writer^^ included the same species, only two (marked 

 by an asterisk) having been since observed, but the acidity data 

 were given numerically, and no optimum reaction was indicated. 

 In the present table, the reactions are shown graphically, the opti- 

 mum point is indicated as with the Ericaceae, and several extensions 

 of range found as the result of many tests made since the publica- 

 tion of the other paper are included. 



Table 3 



Reactions Relations of Orchidaceae Studied 



Specific acidity 

 300 100 30 

 Medi- Sub- 

 acid acid 



Cypripedium candidum 



])arviflorum x X 



var. pubescens x X 



hirsutum 



acaule X X X 



Orchis (Galeorchis) spectabi- 



lis . X 



Habenaria (Blephariglottis) 



blephariglottis X 



ciliaris X 



cristata X 



fimbriata (grandiflora).. . 



lacera x 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X X 

 X X 



X X 



X X 



X 



X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 



peramoena 



psycodes X 



(Coeloglossum) bracteata 



(Gymnadeniopsis) clavellata. X 



Integra* - X 



nivea x 



(Lysias) orbiculata 



(Peruaria) flava X 



Limodorum tuberosum X 



Arethusa bulbosa X 



Pogonia ophioglossoides X x x 



divaricata* X x 



(Triphora) triantho- 



phora . X- 



(Isotria) verticillata. ... X X X 



Ibidium beckii X X X 



cernuum x x X 



gracile x X X 



plantagineum (latifolium . x X 



odoratum x X 



praecox x x X 



vernale X XX 



10 3 

 Minim- 

 acid 



Specific alkalinity 

 1 3 10 



N Minim- 



alk. 



X 

 X 



o 

 x 



X 



X 

 X 

 X 



X 



X 



o 



X 

 X 



X 

 X 



X 

 X 

 X 



X 

 X 



o 



X 



X 



X 



X 



X 

 X 

 X 



X 



X 

 X 

 X 

 X 



X 

 X 

 X 

 X 



^^Journ. Wash. Acad. Sci. 8, 590-598, 1918. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Peramium pubescens x X X 



repens x X o 



Serapias helleborine (viridi- 



flora)....... ^ •, X X 



Malaxis unifolia X X X x 



Liparis liliifolia x X X X x 



loeselii x x X X x o 



Aplectrum hyemale (spica- 



tum) X X X X X 



Tipuharia unifolia x x X X 



Corallorrhiza maculata x X x . 



odontorhiza x X x x 



wisteriana . x X x 



111 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,. 



April 20. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A. M., LL. D., in the Chair.. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



The deaths of Thomas Bradley, December 16, 1919, and James 

 H. Windrim, April 26, 1919, were announced. 



Mr. Leon L. Gardner made a communication entitled: ''A Sum- 

 mer's Observations on Birds as Factors in Agriculture with Special 

 Reference to the Crow." (No abstract.) 



Thomas McKean, J. Fletcher Street, W. S. Beach, Charles P. 

 Bower, Joseph Hepburn, Frank R. Mason, Naomi Pennock, and 

 Anna Woolman, were elected Members; and Merritt Lyndon Fer- 

 nald, Hans Friedrich Gadow, Johann Paul Lotsy, Daniel Trembly 

 MacDougal, Raymond Pearl, William Emerson Ritter, William 

 Schaus, William Lutley Sclater, and William Berryman Scott, 

 Correspondents. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of the follow- 

 ing papers for publication : 



"Correlation between Vegetation and Soil Acidity in Southern 

 New Jersey," by Edgar T. Wherry. 



"Notes on Freshwater Fishes of Formosa. " by Masamitsu Oshima.. 



The following were ordered to be printed. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



CORRELATION BETWEEN VEGETATION AND SOIL ACIDITY IN SOUTHERN 



NEW JERSEY. 



BY EDGAR T. WHERRY 



By southern New Jersey is meant that portion of the state lying 

 south of the Fall-Hne, which extends from the Atlantic coast near 

 Perth Amboy, southwestward to the Delaware river at Trenton. 

 The geology of this region has been described in many reports issued 

 by the State Geological Survey, and in U. S. Geological Survey 

 folios. The soils have been discussed from an agricultural stand- 

 point in a recent publication of the U. S. Bureau of Soils.' Several 

 botanists have studied the vegetation in detail, but have reached 

 widely different conclusions as to its proper geographical classifica- 

 tion. The various divisions which have been recognized by these 

 workers, together with data on the geological and chemical relation- 

 ships, are contrasted in table 1. These divisions have been termed 

 zones, regions, strips, etc., but it seems desirable to have a single 

 term to apply uniformly, and area most accurately expresses the 

 desired conception. Six vegetation-areas appear to be sufficiently 

 distinct to justify separate treatment, although there are admittedly 

 in most places no sharp boundaries between them. In the course 

 of vacation outings during the past several years the writer has visited 

 typical localities in all of these areas, and has obtained data as to 

 the relations between the vegetation and a factor not specially con- 

 sidered by previous workers, namely the soil acidity. This has been 

 determined in the field by the indicator method. ^ The results 

 obtained in the Coastal area have already been described, ^ and in 

 the present paper observations on the other areas are recorded. 



^Bonsteel, J. A. Soils of southern New Jersey and their uses. U. S. Deft. 

 Agr. Bull. 677, (1918). 



^Journ. Wash. Acad. Set. 10: 217-223. 1920. 

 ^Ecology, 1 : 1920. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Table I. Vegetation — Areas of Southern New Jersey. 



o 



CO 



I 



c3 



CO 



-*-3 



03 



o 



:3 

 o 



13 

 O 



CO 



a> 



-»^ 

 (I 



o 



c 

 o 



N 

 02 



o 



a; 



'S 



o 

 O 



2 a 

 fl o 



CD ISI 





a a 



03 O 



CO 



0) 



;-< 

 ;-. 



c3 



■9 



s 





03 

 O 

 U 



o3 

 ■9 



C 



OJ 





13-J2 



CO 



o ^ 



^H oj 2; 



2 Ci^.S 

 a o3 S 



■is -^ o3 



O O/^ 



m 



I o 

 I 'So 



>. 



« 



03 

 C3 « 



Q 



-tj 



o 



73 

 ■T3 



o3 

 CD 



o3 



(E 



13 

 O 



'S 

 o 

 O 



03 



a: 

 o3 



H 





osn 



'-<3 

 a; 



c3 -tJ 



CO 



a; 

 ;-! 

 ;-! 

 o3 



73 



a; 

 ••^ 



o3 

 I 



cu 

 c 



o 



cc 

 a; 



03 

 Si 



c 



b£ 



tc 



> 



O 



oj oi a 



O '-' ^ 



o3 3 fl 



a;-C 03 



■4J 



m 

 c3 

 O 



o 



Si 

 03 

 Si 



•t; o3 



h-H 03 



03^ 



O 



<a J- 



OJ 



o3 

 ■9 03 



a; oj 



a 03 



03 



o 



I 



o 



03 



° CU 03 

 fl o3 ^ 



C aj"S 



03 



QJ 2^ 



9* ^ 

 03 o3 



o 



T3'" 



o3 O 



CO 



QJ 2 q; 

 ^ S-D- 



O 



o3 

 QJ 



Sh 



c3 



& 



O 



1^ 

 03 



o3 

 O 



o3 Oj 



<^ ■=■ ^ 

 43 g O 



a C.2 

 o3 Cjj L_, 



QJ c 5- 



t< QJ o3 



UAhO 



QJ 



W) 



o 



T3 

 QJ 



T3 



QJ 





QJ 



02 





C3 



QJ 



O 

 03 



3 

 CO 



o 

 o3 



3 

 CO 



03 



(H 



•♦J 



3 



QJ 



a 



S 



3 



o 



CO 

 QJ 

 O 



3 



QJ 

 %* 

 QJ 



rt 



-r- 00 



I 



CO 



CO 





QJ 



c 

 o 



C5 



bcS 





'S 



QJ Tt< 



tc 1—1 

 b 05 



w 



Sh 

 QJ 



^o 



QJ ^H 



Xi - 

 tc >— I 



03 T-H 



C^l 



05 



03 (M 





flJ 00 



Sh 



QJ 



W 



r— - <-< 



S.2 

 SI 

 P 



QJ 



0.;i 



iil3 

 03 <^ 



a 

 o 

 •I— I 



-ti -^^ 



3 Sh 

 ^ CO 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 115 



Acidities of the Soils of the Different Geological Formations. 



For the purposes of the present study the geological formations 

 may be grouped into: Cretaceous, Miocene, Pensauken, Cape May, 

 and Recent. The Cretaceous strata, which outcrop toward the 

 western side of the region, are made up of sand, clay, marl, glau- 

 conite, and fossil shells. Salts of calcium, potassium, etc., are rela- 

 tively large in amount in the water extracts of the soils ; and there is 

 enough calcium carbonate present in most of the beds to neutralize 

 any acids which develop in the soils, so that circunineutral reaction. 

 is the rule. 



The Miocene consists of gravel and sand beds, which were raised 

 above sea level soon after their deposition, and have remained so 

 practically ever since. As a result of long-continued weathering 

 most of the calcium and potassium salts, as well as any calcium 

 carbonate the beds may originally have contained, have been leached 

 out. Acids arising from the decomposition of humus or from any 

 other source remain un -neutralized, and mediacid reaction is present 

 nearly throughout the areas underlain by Miocene formations. In 

 the deeper parts of the soil, however, the acidity diminishes, being 

 as low as minimacid at depths of a few decimeters; and the banks 

 of streams, road cuts, etc., occasionally expose low acid material. 



The sand and gravel classed as the Pensauken formation, with 

 which the Bridgeton is here included, is believed to have been derived 

 by erosion of the Miocene, and the soils of the two are practically 

 identical in the respects under consideration. 



The Cape May formation consists of sand and clay of late Qua- 

 ternary age, deposited by streams swollen by water from the great 

 ice sheet, which reached nearly to the northern edge of the present 



^Hollick, Arthur. The relation between forestry and geology in New Jersey. 

 Am. Nat., 33, 1-14. 1899. Also in Ann. Rept. State Geologist of New Jersey for 

 1899: 177-201. 1900. 



Stone, Witmer. The life areas of southern New Jersey. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1907: 452-459. 



The plants of southern New Jersey, with especial reference to the 



flora of the pine barrens and the geographic distribution of the species. Ann. 

 Rept. N. J. State Mus.for 1910: 21-828. 1911. 



Harshberger, John W. Phytogeographic survey of North America, 790 pp. 

 Leipzig, 1911. 



The vegetation of the New Jersey pine-barrens. An ecologic 



investigation. 329 pp. Philadelphia, 1916. 



Taylor, Norman. On the origin and present distribution of the pine-barrens 

 of New Jersey. Torreya, 12: 229-242. 1912. 



Floi'a of the vicinity of New York. A contribution to plant 



geography. Mem. N. Y. Bot. Garden, 5: l~683. 1915. 



Harper, Roland M. A sketch of the forest geography of New Jersey. Bull. 

 Geogr. Soc. Phila., 16: 107-125, 1918. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April^ 



region. Because of containing considerable rock-flour, and of not 

 having been long (geologically speaking) subjected to weathering, this 

 formation yields soils relatively high in calcium and potassium 

 salts. The content of calcium carbonate is less, however, than in 

 the Cretaceous, so that acids are not as completely neutralized, and 

 subacid reactions are most characteristic of the areas underlain by 

 the Cape May. 



The soil acidities of the several vegetation-areas are determined 

 by the distribution of these different geological formations in them. 

 In the Marl area — • named after the most characteristic material 

 represented — the salt content averages high and acidity low because 

 the Cretaceous strata outcrop in many places. More or less iso- 

 lated patches of Cape May and of Pensauken deposits occur in the 

 area, and show locally lower salt content and greater acidity. In 

 the Cohansey area Cape May deposits are most widespread, so that 

 the average acidity is moderate; but again isolated patches occur, 

 in this case occupied by Miocene and Pensauken deposits, in which 

 the acidity is high. The Cape May and Pine-barren areas are- 

 occupied essentially by single geological formations, and show the 

 acidities characteristic of these in each case. The peculiar features 

 of the Coastal and Maritime areas have been discussed in the paper 

 above referred to. 



Relation of Soil Acidity to Plant Distribution. 



Tests have been made of the soils surrounding the roots of a number 

 of plants in each of these areas, and as the results obtained have 

 furnished evidence in support of the view that plant distribution is 

 intimately connected with soil acidity, a few typical instances may 

 well be described here. 



The rattlesnake fern, Botrychium virginianum, which in other 

 regions is most frequently found in circumneutral soils, is common 

 in southern New Jersey in the Marl area, and occasional in the 

 Cohansej^ and Cape May areas; it appears to be quite absent, how- 

 ever, from the Pine-barren and Coastal areas. As there is no physi- 

 cal barrier to its spreading into the latter areas, the inference seems 

 justified that when its spores reach these areas their germination is 

 prevented by the high degree of acidity present. By way of con- 

 trast, the curly-grass fern, Schizaea pusilla, is limited to the Pine- 

 barren and Coastal areas, and actual tests of its soils have shown 

 mediacid reaction. Here there seems to exist an inability of the- 

 plant to become established except where the acidity is high. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



The ebony spleenwort, Asplenium platyneuron, which is usually- 

 found in soils of but moderate acidity, grows in all the vegetation 

 areas of sputhern New Jersey. In the Pine-barren and Coastal 

 ■ones, however, it is found only on steep banks, where the acidity 

 may be rather lower than in level places. The oak fern, Phe- 

 gopteris {Dryopteris) dryopteris, a plant characteristic of cool shaded 

 places- where the soils are circumneutral, would hardly be expected 

 to become established in the warm climate of southern New Jersey. 

 But that its spores actually reach this region is shown by the oc- 

 currence of a colony in an old well in the Pine-barren area, where 

 the combination of low acidity and cool atmosphere is of course 

 attained. 



In the paper above cited, as well as in studies in other regions. Dr. 

 R. M. Harper has used the percentage of evergreen — chiefly coni- 

 ferous — trees as an index of the relative poorness in salts of the soils 

 of individual vegetation-areas. • While a relation of this sort un- 

 doubtedly exists, it would be a mistake to infer from it that all 

 conifers are alike in their soil requirements. The pitch pine, Pinus 

 rigida, thrives in the salt-poor mediacid soils of the Pine-barren 

 area.; but the scrub pine, P. virginiana, is very rare in that area, ap- 

 parently requiring subacid soil reaction and moderate salt content 

 such as are present in the Marl area. The yellow pine, P. echinata, 

 which is intermediate inits characters between the two others, appears 

 to be relatively indifferent as to soil conditions, and grows about 

 equally well in the Pine-barrens and the Marl area. 



The Canada lily, Lilium canadense, elsewhere a circumneutral 

 soil species, grows in southern New Jersey, as would be expected, 

 • only in the Marl area. The related turk's-cap lily, L. superbum, 

 which seems to be partial to highly acid soils, is on the other hand 

 widespread in southern New Jersey, and most abundant in the 

 Pine-barren area. In the bog near Lindenwold, famous for its 

 remarkable flora, both of these lilies grow, which might be taken as 

 evidence that they are not particularly different in their soil acidity 

 requirements after all. But actual observation shows that the 

 first species grows chiefly at the lower levels in the bog, where Cre- 

 taceous strata outcrop and the soils are circumneutral, while the 

 second occurs higher, in the highly acid soils derived from the Pen- 

 sauken sand. 



Among orchids many species are partial to highly acid soils, aild 

 are in southern New Jersey most abundant in the Pine-barren area. 

 -In the genus Hahenaria, subgenus Blephariglottis, the three species 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,.. 



with fringed but simple lips, namely the white, large yellow, and 

 small yellow fringed orchids, H. blephariglottis, H. ciliaris; and H. 

 cristata, respectively, are extremely abundant in the bogs of that 

 area. On the other hand the species with three-parted lips, the 

 green, large purple, small purple, and short-fringed purple fringed 

 orchids, H. lacera, H. grandiflora, H. psycodes, and H. peramoena, 

 are limited to the areas surrounding the Pine-barrens, where they 

 find soils of lower acidity. 



The majority of the buttercup family, Ranunculaceae, appear in 

 other regions to be partial to circumneutral soils, and it is a striking 

 fact that members of this family are almost unknown in the Pine- 

 barren area. The marsh marigold, Caltha palustris, has been ob- 

 served in the Lindenwold bog, but it grows only at the lower levels, 

 where the soil is circumneutral. The columbine, Aquilegia canadensis, 

 can withstand a mediacid reaction if the salt content of the soils 

 is high enough, as in the Coastal area. 



The Heath family, Ericaceae, together with certain closely related 

 ones, are treated in detail elsewhere; but it may be noted here 

 how strikingly their distribution is controlled by the soil acidity. 

 The Pyrolas favor subacid soils, and are very rare in the Pine-barrens 

 though common in the Marl area. The same is true of the pink 

 azalea. Azalea riudiflora, the deerberry, Polycodium stamineum, and 

 the narrow-leaved low-bush blueberry, Vaccmium pennsylvanicum 

 (angustifolium) . Numerous other members of the family are, how- 

 ever, more abundant in the Pine-barrens than in any other area, 

 evidently because of their preference for soils low in salts and 

 high in acidity. When these ericaceous species grow in the Marl 

 area, they avoid the places where calcareous marly strata actually 

 outcrop, and grow instead upon patches of acid Pensauken sand. 



Bearing of Soil Reaction on the Origin of the Pine Barren Flora 



In papers cited in connection with table 1 , Harshberger and Taylor 

 have independently elaborated a theory of origin of the flora of the 

 New Jersey Pine-barrens, based on the alleged remaining above 

 sea-level of the Miocene strata ever since their first emergence at 

 the close of the Miocene period. According to this theory, the area 

 occupied by these strata has been an island up to comparatively 

 recent geological time, and the plants now growing there represent 

 direct descendants of those of the Miocene period. This theory 

 has been criticized from the botanical standpoint by Fernald, Har- 

 per, and others, and recent advances in geological knowledge are 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



decidedly unfavorable to it. Barrel^ has pointed out that certain 

 peneplains of the eastern United States of Pliocene and Pleistocene 

 age have resulted from marine transgression, and it seems extremely " 

 improbable that any part of southern New Jersey could have es- 

 caped submergence during these epochs. 



A consideration of the soil acidity relations indicates, however, 

 that there is an adequate explaiiation of the presence of this flora, 

 entirely aside from the geological history of the New Jersey Pine- 

 barren area. The peculiar and isolated character of the flora of 

 this area has been greatly overestimated, because of incomplete 

 knowledge of the floras of surrounding regions. McAtee^ has re- 

 cently shown that over 70 per cent of the most typical plants of the 

 New Jersey Pine-barrens grow in favorable places ineastern Mary- 

 land; and Harper^ has noted the presence of pine-barren plants in 

 a strip of land crossing the Delaware peninsula. Not more than 

 five or six of the members of the Pine-barren flora are actually end- 

 emic, the great majority of them ranging, as shown by Stone; for 

 considerable distances northward or southward (or in both directions) 

 from New Jersey. Nevertheless the plant association of the Pine- 

 barren area is sufficiently striking to warrant a discussion of its 

 origin. 



The flora of the New Jersey Pine-barrens includes many plants 

 w^hich have migrated northward from the Coastal Plain of the 

 southern states, such as the grass-pink orchid, Limodoru7n tuberosum; 

 others from the southern Appalachian mountains, such as the rhodo- 

 dendron, Rhododendron maximum; and still others from arctic bogs,, 

 such as the buckbean, Menyanthes trifoUata. The one thing which 

 all of these plants have in common is their adaptation to growth in 

 soils of low salt content (as pointed out by Harper, loc. cit.) and high 

 acidity. In the opinion of the present writer, an adequate explana- 

 tion of their association to make up the flora of the New Jersey 

 Pine-barrens is the fact that this area possesses these two character- 

 istics to such a marked degree. 



^Post Jurassic history, etc. (Abstract). Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., 24: 691. 

 1913. The Piedmont terraces of the northern Appalachians. Amer. Journ, Sci., 

 49:227-258,327-362,407-428,(1920). 



^A sketch of the natural history of the District of Columbia. Bull. Biol. Soc. 

 Wash., 1: 86. 1918. 



^A forest reconnaisance of the Delaware peninsula. Journ. Forestry, 17: 55K 

 1919. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



NOTES ON FRESHWATER FISHES OF FORMOSA, WITH DESCRIPTIONS 



OF NEW GENERA AND SPECIES. 



BY MASAMITSU OSHIMA. 



Since the publication of my paper entitled "Contributions to the 

 Study of the Fresh Water Fishes of the Island of Formosa" (Ann. 

 Cam. Mus., 1919, pp. 169-328), many new fresh water fishes have 

 been obtained from Formosa. Moreover, as a result of extended 

 collections made by myself during the year 1918-1919, several 

 species formerly considered very rare have been secured in abundance 

 from the type-localities, or from other places on the island. 



In the present paper the following eight species which seem to 

 be new to science are fully described, and the record of new localities 

 for the known species is given as well. 



1. Acrossocheilus invirgatus. 



2. Lissochilichtys matsudai (gen et. sp. nov.). 



3. Scaphiodontella alticorpus (gen. et sp. nov.). 

 4- Leucisculus fuscus (gen. et sp. nov.). 



5. Spinibarbus elongatus. 



€. Rasborinus tanakii (gen. et sp. nov.). 



7. Rasborinus formosoe. 



8. Cultriculus akoensis. 



Here I express my sincere thanks to Dr. David Starr Jordan for 

 his kind assistance in determining new species; and to Mr. Eiji 

 Matsuda, of the Ako Public school, Formosa, who very kindly for- 

 warded to me a fine collection of fresh water fishes from Ako. 



The numbers in parenthesis, following the localities, refer to the 

 number of specimens examined. 



1. Salmo formosanus Jordan & Oshima. 



Head 3.51 in length to base of caudal; depth 4, 66; D. 3, 11; 

 A. 3, 10; P. 13; V. 9; snout 3.77 in head; eye 4.66; interorbital 

 space 4; maxillary 1.84; pectoral 1.50; ventral 1.75; scales about 

 140 in an oblique series; branchiostegals 12; gill-rakers on first 

 arch 7 -|- 10. 



Jaws subequal. Origin of the dorsal nearer to the tip of snout 

 than base of caudal, its longest ray 1.23 in head; caudal peduncle 

 3 in head. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 121 



Color in formalin bluish gray above, paler below; lower parts 

 of the sides silvery; small black round spots scattered on the back 

 and below the lateral line; sides with eight dark oval spots; base of 

 the dorsal dusky; caudal fin fuscous; the rest of the fins whitish; 

 head uniformly dark, paler below. Total length 148 mm. 



The present specimen Taiko River at Saramao, Nanto differs 

 slightly from the type, being a young individual. I have also for- 

 tunately obtained three grown specimens from the type-locality. 



2. Plecoglossus altivelis Temminck & SchlegeL 



Three full-grow^n specimens from Nankan River at Hokuzanko, 

 Nanto. It is reported that in Sansan River and Takkiri River, 

 Kwarenko several specimens were secured early in the spring, 1919. 



3. Parasilurus asotus (Linnaeus). 



Two from Ako. 



4. Pseudobagrus brevianalis Regan. 



Suisha River at Fumpo, Nanto (1); Nankan River at Ogyuran, 

 Nanto (2); Ako (2). 



5. Pseudobagrus taiwanensis OsMma. 



Shishito, Nanto (2); Tozen River, Shinchiku (1); Suisha River 

 at Fumpo, Nanto (1) ; Daito River, Nanto (2) ; Nankan River at 

 Ogyuran, Nanto (3). 



6. Liobagrus nantoensis Oshima. 



One specimen from Ogyuran, Nanto. 



7. Liobagrus formosanus Regan. 



Head 4.19 in length; depth 5.66; D. 1, 5; A. 15; P. 1, T; V. 6; 

 width of head 1, 14 in its length; snout 2, 50 in head; interorbital 

 space 2; pectoral 1, 14; ventral 2. Body strongly compressed pos- 

 teriorly; dorsal outline abruptly inclined in front of the origin of 

 the dorsal; head large, flattened, with a median shallow groove, 

 both sides of which slightly sw^ollen; interorbital space depressed; 

 snout rather short, its anterior margin obtusely rounded; mouth 

 terminal, broad, with fleshy lips; upper jaw slightly longer than 

 the lower, with a band of villiform teeth, similar band of the lower 

 jaw crescent-shaped, longer than that of the upper; palatine and 

 vomer smooth; barbels 8, four on snout, two at the angle of mouth, 

 other two on the lower jaw; root of the barbel thick; nasal barbel as 

 long as the mental, the rostral nearly as long as the maxillary which 

 reaches to the base of pectoral ; nostrils superior, distinctly separated, 

 the anterior in a short tube, the posterior in contact with the root 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of the rostral barbel; eyes minute, superior, imbedded in skin; 

 gill-openings rather large; gill-membranes entirely separated. Dor- 

 sal fin small, inserted anteriorly, its spine nearly half as high as the 

 soft rays, hidden beneath the skin; adipos^ dorsal low and long, 

 connected posteriorly with the base of caudal ; pectoral with a sharp 

 spine hidden in the skin, tip of the fin scarcely reaching the end of 

 the base of dorsal; ventral entirely behind the dorsal, reaching 

 beyond the vent; anal beneath the adipose dorsal, much shorter 

 than the latter; caudal fin elongate, its tip slightly rounded. Body 

 smooth; lateral line indistinct. Color in alcohol light brown, fins 

 somewhat paler; ventral surface whitish. Total length, 80 riim. 



One specimen from Shishito, Nanto, collected by the writer on 

 March 5, 1919. 



In the former paper the present species was not described in detail, 

 because of the absence of the specimen. Shishito, where my 

 specimen was collected, is located near the type-locality (Lake 

 Candidius.) 



8. Clarias fuscus (Lacepede). 

 Shori, Toyen (1); Ako (2). 



9. Misgurnus anguillicaudatus (Cantor). 



Inzampo, Giran (1); Ako (2); Tamazato, Kwarenko (2). 



10. Misgurnus decmcirrosus (Basilewsky). 



One specimen from Ako and Kwarenko. 



11. Formosania gilberti Oshima. 



Suisha River at Fumpo, Nanto (7) ; Shishito, Nanto (3) ; Nana- 

 kan River at Ogyuran, Nanto (2). 



12. Hemimyzon formosanus (Boulenger). 



Shinchiku (2) ; Shishito, Nanto (30) ; Kananau River at Kapiyan, 

 Ako (10). 



13. Carassius auratus (Linnaeus). 



Buroko River, Giran (2) ; Ritakukan, Giran (5) ; Raupi, Giran 

 (1); Karewan, Kwarenko (5); Rigyochi, Kawarenko (3); Kwaren 

 River, Kwarenko (2); Tamazato, Kwarenko (5); Shori, Toyen 

 (2) ; Ruhikutsu, Nanto (2) ; Horisha, Nanto (3) ; Taichu (3) ; Daiko 

 River, Taichu (3); Ako (2); Kirai, Ako (1); Rinraku, Ako (2). 



14. Csrprinus carpio Linnaeus. 



Tensonpi, Giran (1); Giran River (3); Karewan, Kwarenko (1); 

 Rigyochi, Kwarenko (2); Lake Candidius (3). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



15. Labeo jordani Oshima. 



Nankan River at Hokuzanko, Nanto (275); Shimo-tamusui 

 Eiver, Ako (1); Tamusui River, Taihoku (2). 



16. Acrossocheilus formosanus (Regan). 



Nankan River at Hokuzanko, Nanto (8); Shishito, Nanto (2); 

 Horisha, Nanto (2); Heirinbi, Giran (4). 



17. Acrossocheilus invirgatus new species. Plate V, flgiue 2. 



Head 4.47 in length; depth 4.19; D. 3, 8; A. 2, .5; P. 15; V. 9; 

 width of head 1.66 in its length; interorbital space 2.73 in head; 

 snout 2.50; eye 5; pectoral 1.11; ventral 1.20; 42 scales in the 

 lateral line, 6 scales in an oblique series between origin of dorsal 

 and lateral line, 5 scales between the latter and the middle of belly, 

 3 scales between lateral line and the root of ventral; pharyngeal 

 teeth 5, 3, 1-1, 3, 4; gill-rakers 5 + 9. Body elongate, moderately 

 compressed, rather low; abdomen rounded; head smooth, with 

 many mucous cavities below and behind the orbit, upper surface 

 slightly convex; snout rounded, more or less overhanging the upper 

 lip, sides with traces of small tubercles; upper jaw projecting be- 

 yond the lower; mouth inferior, transverse, maxillary scarcely 

 reaching a vertical through anterior border of nostril; upper lip 

 fleshy; lower lips thick, separated anteriorly by an interspace which 

 is about I the width of mouth; anterior border of lower jaw naked, 

 with a sharp, transverse, horny edge; barbels four, the rostral 

 nearly half as long as the maxillary which reaches the middle of the 

 orbit; eye superiqr and slightly anterior; nostrils close together, in 

 front of eye above; anterior nostril in a short tube; pharyngeal 

 teeth slender, pointed; gill-rakers short. Origin of the dorsal 

 nearer to tip of snout than base of caudal, first ray the longest; anal 

 behind the dorsal, rather high, inserted nearer to origin of ventral 

 than the root of caudal, when depressed scarcely reaching the root 

 of the caudal, anterior ray the longest; ventral inserted three scales 

 behind the origin of dorsal, not reaching the vent; pectoral reaches 

 two-thirds distance to ventrals; caudal peduncle compressed, its 

 depth 2 in head; caudal fin slightly forked, tip of each lobe sharply 

 pointed. Body covered with uniform scales; lateral line continuous, 

 nearly straight, running along the middle of the sides. Color in 

 alcohol dark bluish gray above, sides silvery, with no black stripes; 

 throat and belly whitish; tip of head dark; membrane of dorsal 

 fin dark; pectorals grayish; ventrals and anal whitish, their branched 

 rays reddish yellow; caudal fin fuscous, partially reddish-yellow 

 colored. Total length 160 mm. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Type No. 49,946, A. N. S. P. Buraku River at Ako, collected by 

 Eiji Matsuda on February 2,1919. 



Differs from Acrossocheilus formosanus in having the body lower; 

 no black stripes on sides; 5, 3, 1-1, 3, 4 pharyngeal teeth instead 

 of 5, 3, 2-2, 3, 5, and the anal with two undivided rays. 



LISSOCHILICHTHYS new genus. 



Body elongate, compressed, head smooth, pointed anteriorly; 

 snout obtuse, bluntly rounded, slightly prominent, sides with no 

 tubercles, no lateral lobes. Upper jaw projecting beyond the lower. 

 Mouth transverse, inferior, horse-shoe shaped; upper lip entire, 

 with no inner fold. Lower lips considerably broader than the upper, 

 scarcely in contact with each other, distinctly separated from the 

 lower jaw; postlabial groove is restricted to the lateral parts of the 

 lower lip, not continuous. Tip of the lower jaw naked, obtusely 

 rounded, rather fleshy, with no horny substance. Barbels four, 

 two rostrals and two maxillari^es. Dorsal 3, 8, inserted opposite 

 to ventrals. Anal short, with 5 branched rays. Scales moderate, 

 about 42 in the lateral line; 1.1. running along the middle of the tail. 

 Pharyngeal teeth 5, 3, 2-2, 3, 5; gill-rakers short. Type, Lissochil- 

 ichthys matsudai Oshima. 



This genus is very closely related to Lissochilus Weber and Beau- 

 fort, differing from it in having smaller scales, thick lower lips, 

 lower jaw with no horny substance, and connected lower lips. 



18. Lissochilichthys matsudai new species. Plate III, figure 2. 



Head 4 in length; depth 4; D. 3, 8; A. 3, 5; P. 14; V. 8; width 

 of head 2 in its length; interorbital space 3 in head; snout 3; eye 

 3.66; pectoral 1, 36; ventral 1.36; 42 scales in the lateral line, 6 

 scales in an oblique series between origin of dorsal and lateral line, 

 5 scales between the latter and the middle of belly, 3 scales between 

 the lateral line and the root of the ventral; pharyngeal teeth 5, 3, 

 2-2, 3, 5; gill-rakers 3 + 10. Body elongate, compressed, abdomen 

 rounded; top of head more or less fallen from the back; head smooth, 

 pointed anteriorly, bluntly rounded in front, tip of the skin par- 

 tially overlapping the upper lip, sides with no tubercles; interorbi- 

 tal space slightly convex; lateral lobes none; upper jaw projecting 

 beyond the lower; mouth transverse, inferior, horse-shoe shaped, 

 maxillary scarcely reaching a vertical through the posterior border 

 of nostril; upper lip continuous, rather thick, entire, with no inner 

 fold; lower lip nearly twice as broad as the upper, both con- 

 nected anteriorly, postlabial parts distinctly separated from the 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12,S 



jaw, postlabial groove interrupted; tip of the lower jaw entirely 

 naked, edge rounded, fleshy, with no horny substance; barbels 

 four, the rostral nearly as long as the eye, the maxillary longer, 

 reaching beyond the posterior border of orbit; eye slightly superior 

 and anterior; nostrils close together, in front of the eye above, 

 anterior nostril in a short tube; pharyngeal teeth slender, hooked; 

 gill-rakers short. Origin of the dorsal midway between the tip of 

 snout and base of caudal, opposite to ventrals, armed with three 

 undivided rays, the last one the longest; pectoral as long as the ven- 

 tral, reaching two-thirds the distance to the latter; ventral inserted 

 below first branched ray of the dorsal, scarcely reaching the vent; 

 anal nearer to origin of ventral than the root of caudal, anterior 

 ray the longest, when depressed not reaching the caudal; caudal 

 peduncle compressed, its depth 2 in head; caudal fin deeply forked, 

 tip of the lobes sharply pointed. Body covered with uniform cyc- 

 loid scales, ventral with a scaly flap; lateral line nearly straight, 

 running along the middle of the tail, slightly decurved anteriorly. 

 Color in alcohol yellowish gray above, paler below; top of ' head 

 dark; sides with seven dark vertical stripes, one of which at the 

 base of caudal; back with a series of irregular, dark spots; mem- 

 brane of the dorsal fin with a series of dark stripes; pectoral and 

 anal grayish; ventrals white; caudal uniformly dark. Total length 

 72 mm. 



Type, No. 49,947, A. N. S. P. Kunanau River, Ako, collected by 

 Eiji Matsuda on January 2, 1919. 



Kuanau River, Ako; Tamusui River at Shinten; Shishito, Nanto; 

 Dakusui River at Musha; Suisha River at Fumpo. 



Besides the type, 9 paratypes, 2 of which from the Kimanian 

 River, show the following: Head 3.52 to 4.40; depth 3.83 to 4.13; 

 D. Ill, 8; A. Ill, 5; P. 14, few 15 or 16; V. 8, few 9; head width 

 1.66 to 2; interorbital space 2.71 to 3; eye 3.40 to 4; snout 2.62 to 

 3; scales 6 — 41 or 42 — 5; length 77 to 116 mm. 



19. Scaphesthes tamusiensis Osliima. 



Koshiryo, Giran (2); Taiko, Giran (6); Inzampo, Giran (1), 

 Takkiri River, Kwarenko (16); Mokkui River at Domon, Kwarenko 

 (3); Nankan River at Hokuzanko, Nanto (3); Dakusui River at 

 Musha, Nanto (11); Shishito, Nanto (2); Kunanau River at Kapi- 

 yan, Ako (10). 



SCAPHIODONTELLA Oshima, new genus. 



Body elongate, deep, compressed. Snout short, pointed anter- 

 iorly, tip of the skin extends downwards, overlapping the upper hp. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Mouth transverse, inferior; lower jaw with no lip, edge of the man- 

 dible sharp, covered with a horny layer. No labial fold. Barbels 

 none. Dorsal fin with not more than 9 branched rays, armed with 

 three undivided rays, inserted opposite to ventrals. Anal rather 

 short. Pharyngeal teeth 5, 3, 2-2, 3, 5, laterally compressed, 

 plough-shaped. Scales large, less than 45 in a longitudinal series. 

 Lateral line continuous, running along the middle of the tail. Type 

 Scaphiodentella alticorpus Oshima.. 



The type is very closely related to Scaphesthes tamusuiensis Osh- 

 ima. It differs however, in having a deeper body, no barbel, plough- 

 shaped teeth instead of canine-like, pointed ones. 



20. Scaphiodontella alticorpus new species. Plate IV, figure 1. 



Head 4.67 in length; depth 3.27; D. 3.8; A. 3.5; P. 17; V. 9; 

 width of head 1.36 in its length; eye 5 in head; interorbital space 2; 

 snout 2.47; pectoral 1.08; ventral 1.08; scales 43 in the lateral 

 line, 8 in an oblique series between origin of dorsal and lateral 

 line, 8 between the latter and the middle of belly, 4 between the 

 lateral line and the root of ventral; pharyngeal teeth 5, 3, 2-2, 3, 5; 

 gill-rakers 8 + 30. Body deep, elongate, slightly compresed, deep- 

 est in front of the dorsal, abdomen rounded; head rather small and 

 short, with mucous cavities below and behind the orbit, its upper 

 surface strongly convex; interorbital space broad, vaulted re- 

 markably; snout short, pointed anteriorly, tip of the skin extends 

 downwards and overlaps the upper lip; mouth transverse, inferior, 

 crescent-shaped, maxillary scarcely reaching the anterior border of 

 the orbit; mandibular edge sharp, broadly rounded, covered with a 

 horny layer; upper lip smooth, with no inner fold; lower jaw with 

 no lip; barbels none; eye small, slightly anterior and superior; 

 nostrils close together, in front of the eye; pharyngeal teeth in three 

 rows, laterally compressed, each tooth with an oval grinding surface; 

 gill-rakers slender, set close together; gill-openings moderate, ex- 

 tending downwards and forwards. Dorsal fin inserted nearer tip 

 of snout than base of caudal, with three smooth undivided rays, the 

 first minute, the third nearly four times as long as the second, first 

 branched ray the longest; anal fin entirely behind the dorsal, in- 

 serted midway between origins of ventral and caudal, rather short, 

 outer margin nearly straight; origin of ventral below the third 

 branched ray of the dorsal, not reaching the vent; pectoral as long 

 as the ventral, reaching beyond half the distance to the latter; cau- 

 dal penduncle short, its depth 1.72 in head; caudal fin long, deeply 

 forked, tip of each lobe sharply pointed. Body covered with uni- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



form cycloid scales; ventral with a scaly flap; lateral line continuous, 

 slightly decurved in front, running along the middle of the tail. Color 

 in alcohol grayish above, belly and lower parts of sides silvery; head 

 dark; all the fins dusky, fin membranes reddish; caudal fin uni- 

 formly dark, interspace between the middle raj'S reddish. Total 

 length 220 mm. 



Type No. 49,948, A. N. S. P. Buraku River, Ako, collected 

 by Eiji Matsuda on February 2, 1919. 



Also paratype, Kwaren River at Kado, Kwarenho. It shows: 

 Head 4.53; depth 3.43; fins as in type; head width 1.60; inter- 

 orbital space 2.18; snout 2.66; eye 4.50; scales 8 — ^43 — 7; length 

 138 mm. 



21. Hemibarbus labeo (Pallas). 

 Heirinbi, Giran (1); Taihoku (3). 



22. Barbodes paradoxus (Gunther). 



Five from Ako. 



23. Puntius snyderi Oshima. 



One from Nankan River at Ogyuran, Nanto. 



24. Spinibarbus hoUandi Oslilma. 



Ako (2); Rinraku, Ako (2); Shukoran River at Suibi, Kwarenko 

 (3) ; Kwaren River at Kada, Kwarenko (20) . 



25. Spinibarbus elongatus new species. Plate IV, figure 2. 



Head 3.58 in length; depth 5.27; D. in, 8; A. ii, 5; P. 16; 

 V. 9; width of head 1.59 in its length; eye 6 in head; interorbital 

 space 3.12; snout 2.67; pectoral 1.36; ventral 1.53; 28 scales in 

 the lateral line, 4 in an oblique series between origin of dorsal and 

 lateral line, 5 between the latter and the middle of belly, 2 between 

 the lateral line and the root of ventral; pharyngeal teeth 5, 3, 2-2, 

 3, 5; gill-rakers 3 -|- 11. Body elongate, low, slightly compressed; 

 head elongate, rounded, dorsal outline convex; interorbital space 

 broad, more or less compressed, with many mucous cavities around 

 the orbit; snout long, rounded anteriorly; eye rather small, anterior 

 and superior; nostrils close together, in front of eye; mouth sub- 

 inferior, maxillary scarcely reaching a vertical through anterior 

 border of nostril; upper lip fleshy; lower lips not continuous, dis- 

 tinct at the angle of the mouth; upper jaw slightly longer than the 

 lower, protractile; anterior margin of the lower jaw" rounded, rather 

 sharp; barbels four, the rostral reaching beyond the nostrils, much 

 more slender and shorter than the maxillary which reaches far be- 

 yond the orbit; gill-openings moderate; gill-rakers on first arch 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



slender, apical ones on the lower limb rudimentary. Dorsal fin 

 inserted midway between the tip of snout and the base of caudal, 

 osseous rays smooth, the first one minute, anterior ray the longest; 

 a recumbent spine in front of the origin of the dorsal, partially hidden 

 beneath the scales; pectoral reaching beyond two-thirds the dis- 

 tance to ventral; origin of ventral two scales behind that of the 

 dorsal; anal entirely behind the dorsal, inserted nearer to origin of 

 ventral than base of caudal, when depressed scarcely reaching the 

 root of caudal, anterior ray the longest; caudal peduncle elongate, 

 its depth 2.89 in head; caudal fin deeply forked, tip of each lobe 

 sharply pointed. Body covered with large cycloid scales; ventral 

 fin with a scaly flap; lateral line decurved, running along the middle 

 of the side, gradually entering the middle of the tail. 



Color in alcohol dark gray above; belly and lower parts of the 

 sides silvery; base of each scale dark, dorsal fin grayish, with a 

 series of black streaks; pectoral uniformly dusky; ventrals, anal, 

 and caudal fuscous, more or less reddish; top of head uniformly 

 dark. Total length 233 mm. 



Type. No. 49,949, A. N. S. P. Buraku River, Ako, collected 

 by Eiji Matsuda on February 2, 1919. 



The present species is very closely allied to Spiniharhus hoUandi. 

 It differs from the latter in having much more lower body, round 

 snout and 28-29 scales in the lateral line instead of 26-27. 



26. Gnathopogon iijimae Osliima. 

 Eight from Rihikutsu, Nanto. 



27. Pseudorasbora Parva (Schlegel). 



Lake Candidius (1); Rihikutsu, Nanto (abundant); Kirai, Ako 

 (3); Shinkaiyen, Daito (11), Shukoran River at Suibi, Kwarenko 

 (1) ; Kwaren River at Kada, Kwarenko (3), 



28. Phoxiscus kikuchii Oshima. 



Raupi, Giran (2); Karewan, Kwarenko (7); Kwarenko (20); 

 Kwaren River at Kada, Kwarenko (15); Rigyochi, Kwarenko (17);. 

 Riran, Daito (6); Shinkaiyen, Daito (abundant). 



LEUCISCULUS new genus. 



Body robust, more or less compressed posteriorly. Head rather 

 short, triangular; snout pointed. Mouth transverse, oblique; upper 

 lip entire, thin; lower lips widely separated in front, postlabial 

 folds discontinuous; anterior edge of the lower jaw naked, trench- 

 ant. Barbels none. Pharyngeal teeth in a single series, 5-4; teeth 

 molar-like, with smooth, oval grinding surface. Dorsal fin short,. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



with no osseous ray or spine; anal short, with 8 branched rays, 

 entirely behind the dorsal; root of the ventral covered by tiled 

 scaly sheath. Scales large, imbricated. Lateral line continuous, 

 slightly decurved, running along the middle of the tail. Type 

 Leucisculus fuscus Oshima. 



Very closely related to Leuciscus, differing from it in having single- 

 rowed, molar-like teeth. 



29. Leucisculus fuscxis new species. Plate V, figure 1. 



Head 3.46 in length; depth 3.40; D. 3.7; A. 3.8; P. 19, V. 9, 

 width of head 1.57 in its length; interorbital space 2.43 in head; 

 snout 3.38; eye 5.50; pectoral 1.38; ventral 1.49; 43 scales in the 

 lateral line, 7 scales in an obliciue series from origin of dorsal to lat- 

 eral line. 7 scales between the latter and the middle of belly; 4 

 scales between lateral line and the root of ventral; pharyngeal teeth 

 5-4; gill-rakers minute. Body robust, elongate, more or less com- 

 pressed posteriorly; deepest in front of the dorsal; dorsal outline 

 much more curved than that of the ventral; head triangular, strongly 

 depressed, its dorsal outline straight, inclined; interorbital space 

 broad, nearly flat; postoperculum radially striped; snout short," 

 sharply pointed anteriorly; mouth terminal, oblique, maxillary 

 reaching a vertical through posterior border of the anterior nostril; 

 upper jaw slightly longer than the lower; upper lip entire, rather 

 thin, lower lips discontinuous, postlabial folds distinctly separated 

 in front; tip of the lower jaw naked, trenchant; barbels none; eye 

 large, anterior; nostrils large, close together, on the upper surface 

 of the snout, anterior nostril in a short tube, the posterior covered 

 by a large flap; pharyngeal teeth in a single series, molar-like, very 

 large, with smooth, oval grinding surface; gill-rakers minute, rudi- 

 mentary; gill-openings large; gill-membranes connected below the 

 postoperculum. Origin of the dorsal a little nearer to the tip of 

 snout than base of caudal, rather short, high, first branched ray the 

 longest, when depressed reaching to the origin of anal, outer margin 

 rounded; origin of anal midway between origin of ventral and the 

 root of caudal, rather short, anterior branched ray the longest, when 

 depressed scarcely reaching the root of the caudal; pectoral large, 

 not reaching the root of ventral; ventral inserted below the second 

 divided ray of the dorsal, scarcely reaching the vent; caudal ped- 

 uncle short, slightly compressed, its depth 2.16 in head; caudal fin 

 broad, forked, its lobes obtusely pointed. Scales large, cycloid, 

 imbricated; pectoral and ventral with a short scaly flap; lateral 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



line continuous, weakly decurved, running along the middle of the 

 tail. Color in alcohol uniformly grayish brown; lower parts whitish; 

 all the fins dark brownish gray; head dark brown. Total length 

 230 mm. 



Type. No. 49,950, A. N. S. P. Ako, collected by Eiji Matsuda 

 in June, 1917. 



30. Achilognathus himantegus Gunther. 

 Shori, Toyen (1); Kirai, Ako (4). 



31. Zacco platypus (Schlegel). 



Dakusui, Giran (1); Koshiryo, Giran (4); Heirinbi, Giran (11); 

 Daito River, Nanto (1); Nankan River at Hokuzanko, Nanto (1); 

 Ako (7). 



32. Zacco temminckii (Schlegel). 



Dakusui, Giran (5); Buroko River, Giran (14); Taiko, Giran (2): 

 Raupi, Giran (1) ; Horisha, Nanto (4) ; Nankan River at Hokuzanko, 

 ISfanto (16); Rinraku, Ako (1); Kapiyan, Ako (7). 



33. Zacco pachycephalus (Gunther). 



Nine from Dakusui River at Musha, Nanto. 



34. Candidia barbata (Regan). 



Horisha, Nanto (1); Kirai, Ako (2). 



BASBORINUS new genus. 



Body elongate, compressed, rather high. Abdomen compressed, 

 a soft median keel at the postventral part only. Head pointed. 

 Mouth terminal, oblique, maxillary not reaching beyond the orbit. 

 Lower jaw slightly projecting beyond the upper, with no prominent 

 hook or knob. Lips thin; barbels none. Dorsal fin with no spine, 

 with 7-8 branched rays, above the space between ventrals and anal. 

 Anal entirely behind the dorsal, elongate, many rayed. Scales 

 moderate, thin, deciduous. Lateral line broadly curved, running 

 along the lower half of the tail. Pharyngeal teeth in three series, 

 5 or 4, 4, 2-2, 4, 4; gill-rakers slender. Type Rashorinus takakii 

 Oshima. 



Rashorinus is a nearest relative of Rashorichthys Bleeker. It 

 differs from it in having lateral line running along the lower half 

 of the tail and pharyngeal teeth of 5 or 4, 4, 2-2, 4, 4, instead of 5, 3, 

 1-1, 3. 5. 



35. Rasborinus takakii new species. Plate III, figure 3. 



Head 4 in length; depth 3.10; D. 3.7; A. 3.16; Pj 14; V. 8; 

 ■width of head 2 in its length; interorbital space 2.50 in head; snout 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



3.33; eye 3; pectoral 1.25; ventral 1.50; 36 scales in the lateral 

 line, 7 scales in an oblique series between origin of dorsal and lateral 

 line, 6 scales between the latter and the middle of belly, 4 scales be- 

 tween lateral line and the root of ventral; pharyngeal teeth 4, 4, 

 2-2, 4, 4; gill-rakers 3 + 9. Body elongate, compressed, rather 

 high, dorsal and ventral profiles equally curved; abdomen com- 

 pressed, proventral part rounded, postventral part with a well- 

 developed, soft, median keel; head pointed; interorbital space 

 broad, nearly straight; snout short, truncated in front; mouth 

 terminal, oblique, maxillary not reaching the orbit; lower jaw 

 slightly projecting beyond the upper, with no knob-like protuberance 

 on the symphysis; lips thin; barbels none; eye large, anterior; 

 nostrils close together, in front of eye above, the anterior in a short % 



tube; pharyngeal teeth slender; gill-rakers short. Dorsal fin in- 

 serted above the space between ventral and anal, nearer base of 

 caudal than tip of snout, with no spine, rather high, anterior ray the 

 longest; pectoral elongate, reaching beyond the root of ventral; 

 ventrals slender, not reaching the vent; anal fin elongate, entirely 

 behind the dorsal, with a scaly sheath along the base, anterior ray, 

 the longest; caudal peduncle short, its depth 2.29 in head; caudal 

 fin deeply forked, tip of each lobe sharply pointed. Scales moderate, 

 thin, deciduous; lateral line broadly decurved, running along the 

 lower half of the tail. Color in alcohol grayish above, yellowish 

 below, with a thin, dark stripe along the middle of the sides; all 

 the fins whitish. Total length 63 mm. 



Type, No. 49, 951, A. N. S. P. Ako, collected by Eiji Matsuda. 



Named for Dr. Tomoe Takaki, former Director of the Institute 

 of Science, Government of Formosa. 



Besides the type, 2 paratypes from Ako and one from Rinraku, Ako 

 which show: Head 3.73 to 4; depth 3 to 3.50; D. iii, 7; A. iii, 15 

 or 16; P. 14 or 15; V. 8; head width 1.71 to 2; interorbital space 

 2.40 to 3; snout 3.50; eye 3 to 4; scales 7—35 or 36—6; length 

 54 to 125 mm. 

 36. Rasborinus formosae new species. Plate III, flgiue 1. 



Body 4 in length; depth 4; D. 2.8; A. 2.14; P.. 13; V. 8; width 

 of head 2.25 in its length; interorbital space 3 in head; snout 3.33; 

 eye 3; pectoral 1.38; ventral 1.50; 47 scales in the lateral line, 10 

 scales in an oblique series between origin of dorsal and lateral line, ' 

 5 scales between the latter and the middle of belly, 3 scales between 

 lateral line and the root of ventral; pharygneal teeth 5, 4, 2-2, 4, 4; 

 gill-rakers 3 + 12. Body elongate, compressed, deepest in front of 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the dorsal; dorsal outline weakly curved; proventral part rounded; 

 postventral part trenchant, with a sharp, soft, median keel; head 

 rather small, triangular; dorsal outline straight, slightly fallen from 

 the back; interorbital space broad, slightly arched; snout short, 

 truncated in front; mouth terminal, slightly oblique, maxillary 

 reaching a vertical through anterior border of nostril, lower jaw 

 more or less protruding beyond the upper; Hps thin; barbels none; 

 eye large, anterior; nostrils close together, in front of the eye abo-ve, 

 the anterior covered with a small flap; pharygneal teeth slender, 

 hooked; gill-rakers rather slender, long. Dorsal fin above the space 

 between ventrals and anal, inserted nearer base of caudal than tip 

 of snout, with no spine, rather high, anterior ray the longest; pec- 

 toral short, reaching three-fourths the distance to ventral; ventral 

 inserted in advance of the origin of dorsal, not reaching the vent; 

 anal elongate, outer margin incurved, inserted below the last divided 

 ray of the dorsal, anterior ray the longest; caudal peduncle depressed, 

 its depth 2.50 in head, caudal fin deeply forked, tip of each lobe 

 sharply pointed. Scales moderate, thin; lateral line broadly de- 

 curved, running along the lower half of the tail. Color in formalin 

 greenish gray above, lower parts of sides whitish, sides with a dark, 

 longitudinal band above the ntiddle; a dark narrow band along the 

 dorsal median line; a brownish round spot on occiput; all the fins 

 whitish, caudal somewhat dusky. Total length 88 mm. 



Type No. 49,952, A. N. S. P. One specimen from a small pond 

 near Manka, Taihoku, collected by Takeo Aoki in June, 1919. 



Also 2 paratypes, same data, which show: Head 3.81 to 3.93; 

 depth 3.81 to 3.93; fins as in type; head width 2; interorbital 

 3 to 3.25; snout 3.66; eye 3 to 3.25; scales 10—45 to 47—5; length 

 75 to 79 mm. 



The scale row of the present species distinctly differs from that of 

 Rashorinus takakii. 



37. Chanodichthys macrops Giinther. 



One from Heirinbi, Giran. 



38. Cultriculus akoensis new species. Plate III, figiire 4. 



Head 4.39 in length; depth 5; D. ii.7; A 3.12; P. 14, V. 9; 

 width of head 2.25 in its length; interorbital space 3.27 in head; 

 snout 3.40; eye 3.40; pectoral slightly longer than head; ventral 

 1.38; 45 scales in the lateral line, 9 scales in an obhque series between 

 origin of dorsal and lateral line, 3 scales between the latter and the 

 middle of belly; one scale between lateral line and the root of ventral; 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 133 



pharyngeal teeth 5, 4, 2-2, 4, 5; gill-rakers 4 + 16. Body elongate, 

 compressed, dorsal outhne nearly straight, ventral profile strongly 

 curved; abdomen compressed, pro- and post-ventral edge distinctly 

 carinated; head moderate, its dorsal outline fallen from the back; 

 interorbital space nearly straight; snout pointed anteriorly; mouth 

 terminal, oblique, maxillary scarcely reaching a vertical through 

 anterior border of nostril; jaws subequal, the lower more or less 

 projecting beyond the upper; anterior edge of lower jaw rather 

 sharp; eye large, anterior; nostrils close together, in font of the 

 eye above, the anterior in a short tube; pharygneal teeth slender, 

 canine-like; gill-rakers setiform, slender and long. Dorsal fin in- 

 serted nearer tip of snout than base of caudal, armed with two smooth 

 spines, first spine nearly half as long as the second, anterior ray the 

 longest; pectoral elongate, scarcely reaching the root of the ventral; 

 origin of ventral in advance of that of the dorsal, rather slender, 

 not reaching the vent; anal fin high, elongate, entirely behind the 

 dorsal, anterior ray the longest; caudal peduncle long, strongly 

 compressed, its depth 2.43 in head; caudal fin strongly forked, tip 

 of each lobe sharply pointed. Body covered with thin cycloid 

 scales; lateral line continuous, abruptly bending downwards above 

 the pectoral, thence extends backwards making a weak curve, run- 

 ning along the lower half of the tail. Color in alcohol grayish above, 

 belly and lower parts of sides silvery; fins whitish; caudal fin gray. 

 Total length 93 mm. 



Type, No. 49,953, A. N. S. P. Ako, collection of Eiji Matsuda. 



Differs distinctly from Cultriculus kneri in having 45 scales in the 

 lateral line. 



39. Oryzias latipes (Temminck & Schlegel). 



Kizan Island, Giran (abundant); Lake Candidius (15); Taiko, 

 Giran (4). 



40. Gambusia affinis (Baird & Girard). 



This American species was originally brought from Texas to 

 Hawaii, by Mr. Alvin Scale. Collected from rice -fields at Kwarenko. 

 As a result of artificial propagations enforced by the Government for 

 the purpose of extirpation of mosquitoes the present species is be- 

 coming very common in streams and stagnant pools of Formosa. 



41. Fluta alba (Zuiew). 



Shori, Toyen (1); Ako (2). 



42. Anguilla mauritiana Bennett. 



One from Ako and 5 from Shinkaiyen, Daito. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



43. Anguilla japonica Temminck & Schlegel. ♦ 



Tozen River, Shinchiku (1); Lake Candidius (1); Shinchiku (2); 

 Ako (1). 



44. Mugil cephalus Linnaeus. 



Kwaren River at Kada, Kwarenko (3); Inzampo, Giran (1). 



45. Mugil oeur Forskal. 



Kwaren River at Kada, Kwarenko (2); Botansha, Daito (1). 



46. Liza troscheli (Bleeker). 

 One from Rinraku, Ako. 



47. Polyacanthus operculatus (Linnaeus). 

 Maruyama, Taihoku (8); Ako (2). 



48. Kuhlia marginata (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Mokui River at Domon, Kwarenko (1); Kwarenko (2); Shu- 

 koran River, Kwarenko (3); Tamazato, Kwarenko (12); Beiron 

 River, Kwarenko (3); Shinchiku (3). 



49. Ophicephalus tadianus Jordan & Evermann. 



Inzampo, Giran (1); Ako (2). 



50. Eleotris oxycephala (Schlegel). 



Inzampo, Giran (2) Kirburan, Giran (6) ; Beiron River, Kwarenko 

 (5); Ako (2). 



51. Eleotris fusca (Schneider). 



Two from Suirenbi, Kwarenko. 



52. Sicyopterus japonicus (Tanaka). 



Taiko, Giran (5); Heirinbi, Giran (2); Taichu (5); Kunanau 

 River at Kapiyan, Ako (9). 



53. Rhinogobius candidius (Regan). 



Maruyama, Giran (5); Shito, Giran (1); Tensonpi, Giran (1); 

 Wodensho, Taichu, (1); Lake Candidius (18); Koshiryo, Giran (6); 

 Shishito, Nanto (4). 



54. Rhinogobius giurinus (Rutter). 



Taiha, Giran (9); Heirinbi, Giran (1); Tensompi, Giran (3); 

 Buroko River, Giran (1); Raupi, Giran (3); Inzampo, Giran (1); 

 Beiron River, Kwarenko (1); Sobun River, Tainan (1); Ako (1). 



55. Rhinogobius formosanus Oshima. 



Dakusui, Giran (1); Koanronsha, Taichu (1); Ogyuran, Nanto 

 (3); Lake Candidius (16); Sobun River, Tainan (4). 



56. Rhinogobius taiwanus Oshima. 



OgvMran, Nanto (5); Heirinbi, Giran (1); Taiko River, Taichu 

 (1). 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE III. 



OSHIMA: FORMOSA FISHES. 









Ni ^^^'^^. 





1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



57. Glossogobius brunneus (Schlegel). 



Kwarenko (3); Maruyama, Taihoku (2). 



Explanation of Plates III, IV, V. 



Plate III. — Fig. 1. — Rasborinus formosae new species. 



Fig. 2. — Lissochilichihys matsudai new genus and species. 



Fig. 3. — Rasborinus takakii new genus and species. 



Fig. 4. — Caltriculus akoensis new species. 

 Plate IV. — Fig. 1. — Scaphiodontella alticorpus new genus and species. 



Fig. 2. — Spinibarbics elongatus new species. 

 Plate V. — Fig. 1. — Leticiscvlus fuscus new genus and species. 



Fig. 2. — Acrossocheilus invirgatus new species. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF May-Oot , 



SCROPHULARIACEAE OF COLOMBIA— I. 



BY FRANCIS W. PENNELL. 



For a period of eight months during 1917 and 1918, the writer 

 was engaged in scientific work in Colombia. No attempt will now 

 be made to tell the story of his adventures there, nor to give more 

 than the briefest summary of his impressions of Tropical or Andine 

 vegetation. A short narrative of my explorations and a compara- 

 tive sketch of the plant-life seen has already been presented in the 

 Journal of The New York Botanical Garden for June, 1918. 1 will 

 simply say that my travels took me from the northern seacoast to 

 the Andes east of Neiva in 3° north latitude, from the prairies and 

 lowland forest of the Orinoco drainage, from the Magdalena and 

 Sinu valleys, upward thr.:)ugh every zone of vegetation to the sum- 

 mits of each of the three ranges of the Andes The greatest diver- 

 sity of life was seen, and the collections of plants, brought from 

 nearly all points visited, inc.ude much that is new to science. 



From July 6 to August 16, 1917, it was my privilege to work 

 with Dr. Henry H Rusby, of the College of Pharmacy, New York 

 City — a companionship which to a botanical no\ice in a strange 

 land was invaluable. All specimens made on and before August 16, 

 while nunibered consecutively with those made by myself alone 

 later, are to be cited as Rusby & Pennell. , . . 



Detailed maps of Colombia are difficult to obtain, and many of 

 our collecting-stations were at small towns, or single houses. Con- 

 sequently, although in the lists of specimens given I am stating the 

 Department in which each point is located, it seems important 

 to give a full list of the localities from which our plants have come. 

 Arranging these in the order of our itinerary, and grouping them 

 according to broad natural areas of topography, should enable any- 

 one to place approximately any station. Foi- each point the De- 

 partment is stated. The names of houses are placed in quotation 

 marks. 



Northern Seacoast: 



July 6, 1917. Cartagena, Bolivar. 




(S 



1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



Along Rio Magdalona: 



July 8, 1917. Barranquilla, Bolivar 

 " 10, " Calamar, 



11, " El Banco, Magdalena 



12, " Gamarra and Carpentiera, Magdalena 

 " 14, " Puerto Berrio, Antioquia 



" 15, " Bvienavista, Caldas. 

 Plain of Tolima : 



July 16, 1917. Mariquita and San Lorenzo, Tolima. 

 Plain of Upper Magdalena: 



July 19, 1917. Girardot, Cundinamarca 

 " 21, " Espinal to Cuamo, Tolima 

 " 22, " Cuamo to Rio Saldana, Tolima 

 " 22, " Rio Saldana to Matagaima, Huila 

 " 24, " Quebrada de Angeles, " 



" 25, " Quebrada de Angeles to Rio Cabrera, Huila 

 " 26, " Rio Cabrera to Villavieja, 

 " 27, " Villavieja to Neiva, " 



" 30, " Neiva, Huila. 

 Cordillera Oriental : 



July 30 to August 8, 1917. Excursion from Neiva over the crest of the 



Cordillera to "Balsillas", and return. 

 Along Upper Magdalena: 



August 8-9, 1917. Neiva, Huila 

 " 12, " , Natagaima, Huila 

 " 13. " Boca Saldana, Huila. 

 Railroad from Girardot to Bogota: 



August 14, 1917. Portillo, Anapoima, San Joaquin, Hospicio, La Espor- 

 anza, Cachipay, Zipacon and Anolaima, Cundina- 

 marca. 

 Upper western slopes of Cordillera Oriental: 



August 16, 1917. Bogota. Cundinamarca. 

 Eastern slopes of Cordillera Oriental: 



August 22, 1917. Chipaque, Cundinamarca 

 " 23, " Caqueza, " 



" 24, " Caqueza to Rio Sananie, Cimdinamarca 



24, " Quetameto "Susumuco," " 



" 25-26, 1917. "Susumuco," " 



Plain of Meta: 



August 26 to September 2, 1917. Villavicencio, Meta. 

 Eastern slopes of Cordillera Oriental: 



September 4, 1917. Villavicencio to "Buenavista," Meta 



"Buenavista" to "Pipiral," Cundinamai'ca 

 "Pipiral" to "Susumuco," 

 "Guayabetal," 



"Guavabetal" to ''Monte Redondo," Cundinamarca 

 " Monte Redondo" to Quetame, " 



Caqueza, 

 Ubague, 

 Summit of Cordillera Oriental: 



September 8, 1917. Paramo de Cruz Verde, Cundinamarca. 

 L^pper western slopes of Cordillera Oriental: 



September 12, 1917. Bogota and Mt. Guadalupe, Cundinamarca 

 13, " Bogota (Rio San Francisco), 

 " 15, " Tequendama, " 



" 17, " Bogota (Monserrate), " 



" 18, 23, " Bogota (Chapinero), 

 Summit of Cordillera Oriental : 



September 20, 1917. Paramo de Cruz Verde, Cundinamarca. 

 Upper western slopes of Cordillera Oriental: 



It 




138 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct , 



u 



September 20, 26, 1917. Bogota (Rio San Cristobal), Cundinamarca 

 22,24, " " (Rio del Arzobispo), 



24, 25, " ■ " (Las Graces), 

 26, " " (Cerro de Focha), 



Summit of Cordillera Oriental: 



September 27, 1917. Paramo de Choachi, Cundinamarca. 

 Upper western slopes of Cordillera Oriental: 



September 30, 1917. Bogotd, (San Cristobal), Cundinamarca 



11 

 II 



" (Chapinero), 

 Rio Teusaca, 



Bogota (Rio San Cristobal) " 

 Sibate to El Penon, " 



Zipaquira to Mt. Chuscal, " 



Nemacon, '• 



Tequendama, " 



Sibate to El Peiion, " 



Summit of Cordillera Oriental: 



November 14, 1917. Paramo de Cruz Verde, Cundinamarca. 

 Lower western slopes of Cordillera Oriental: 



November 28-30, 1917. Fusagasugil, Cundinamarca 

 December 1-4, " Pandi and Icononzo, Cundinamarca. 

 Plain of Upper Magdalena; 



December 4-5, 1917. Melgar and Girardot, Cundinamarca. 

 Eastern slopes of Cordillera Central: 



December 11,1917. Libano, Tolima 



"Rosalito," between Murillo and Paramo do Ruiz, 



Tolima 

 Paramo de Ruiz, Tolima 

 Murillo, 

 Libano ("La Trinidad" and "La Virginia"), 



Tolima 

 "El Convenio," Tolima. 



II 



15-17, 



16-17, 

 17-18, 

 18-29, 



29-30, " 

 Plain of Tolima: 



December 30, 1917. 

 Januapy 6, 1918. 

 3,7, " 

 Along Rio Magdalena: 

 January 9-10, 1918. 

 11-13, " 



II 



14, 

 14, 

 15, 

 15. 



16, ' 

 " 18-19, ' 

 Plain of Bolivar: 



January 24, 1918. 



25, " 



26, " 

 27, 

 28, 

 30, 



Along Rio Sinu: 

 February 3, 

 4, 

 5, 

 6, 

 8, 







II 

 11 



1918. 



II 



San Lorenzo, Tolima 



Guayabal and San Felipe, Tolima 



Honda and Mariquita, " 



Brazuela de Perales, Antioquia 

 Puerto Berrio and Malena, Antioquia 

 Vuelta de Acuna, " 



Opposite Boca Carare, " 



Canabetal, Bolivar. 

 Boca de Ptosario, Puerto Nuevo and Boca Sogomosa, 



Santander 

 El Banco, Magdalena 

 Magangue, Bolivar. 



Buenavista, Bolivar 



Since and Corozal, Bolivar 



Sincelejo, " 



Chinu and Sahagun, " 



Cienaga de Oro and Cerete, Bolivar 



Monteria. " 



"Medellin," Bolivar 



"Los Hurtados," Bolivar 



Morales, " 



Barro Blanco, " 



Tierra Alta and Boca Tai, Bolivar 




1920. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



" 10-11, " "Angostura" and Frasquillo, " 

 " 13-14, " Boca Verde. 

 Upper slopes of Cordillera Occidental: 



February 23, 191S. Paramo de Chaquiro, Bolivar 

 c " 25, " Cascada Chorron. 

 Alone; Rio Antizales: 



February 25-26, 1918. Antizales, Bolivar. 

 Along Rio Esmeralda : 



February 26, 1918. Boca Antizales, Bolivar 



27, " "Las Dantas" to "Puerto Canoa," Bolivar 



28, " "PuertoCanoa" to "Salvajin." 

 Along Rio Sinu : 



March 1, 1918. Boca Esmeralda, Bolivar 

 4, " Boca Verde, 



" 5-6, " Frasquillo and "Angustura," Bolivar 



" 7-10, ." Boca Tai and Tierra Alta, 



" 11, " Morrocoquiel, " 



" 12, " "Los Hurtados," 



" 21, " Monteria, 



" 23, " Vilches, " 



" 25, " "El Pueblo," below Lorica. 

 Northern Seacoast: 



March 26-27, 1918. Cartagena and Turbaco, Bolivar 

 April 1, " Santa Marta, Magdalena. 



Of chief interest has be*en the comparison of the vegetation of 

 different altitudinal Hfe-zones, and these upon the slopes of the 

 three divergent Cordilleras of the Andes. The central axis of the 

 AndeS; entering Colombia from the South, soon divides into three 

 ranges, all of which, rising from the midst of a broad low Tropical 

 plain, reach high elevations. Also in the northeast is the wholly 

 isolated Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. Upon each mountain 

 system, one ascends from Tropical lowland, forest or prairie (''Sa- 

 bana"), through Subtropical forest, through Temperate forest or 

 "Sabana," to the "Paramo," as the treeless chill slopes above 

 timber-line are called. Temperature and moisture cause the floras 

 of the different zones to differ, and similarly the isolation of the 

 different mountain systems accounts for a divergence in the floras 

 of the same zone on each chain. 



Dr. Frank M. Chapman, in his ''Distribution of Bird Life in 

 Colombia," has given us a masterly presentation of this problem, 

 and I adopt his system of life zones and his terminology of each. 

 As stated in his summary on page 85 of volume 36 of the Bulletin 

 of The American Museum of Natura^ History, these are: 



Tropical Zone— sea-level to 4,500-6,000 ft. (1350-1800 meters). 

 Subtropical Zone— 4,500-6,000 ft. to 9,000-9,500 ft. (2,700-2,850 



meters) . 

 Temperate Zone— 9,000-9,500 ft. to 11,000-13,000 ft. (3,300-3,900 



meters) . 

 Paramo Zone— 11,000-13,000 ft. to snow-line, 15,000 ft. (4,500 



meters) . 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



My observations have led n^e to occasional slight modifications 

 of his limits, as in placing the lower limit of the Paramo above 

 Bogota at only 310C meters. Here local conditions explain such 

 a change. But in general outline, and in nearly all details, his 

 scheme may be adopted for plants as for animals. Plants seem 

 more subject to geographical differentiation than animals, so that 

 in certain genera the same zone on different Cordilleras ha^ related, 

 but never the same, species. A fuller discussion of this subject will 

 be given in the concluding paper of this series — now I wish but 

 to make the summary of distribution accompanying each species 

 of this study intelligible. 



The vegetation of a land so diverse as Colombia is immensely 

 rich; consequently upon a short expedition it has been impossible 

 to foLow out in comparative study any wide number of families. 

 A few groups well selected, and so far as possible all their species 

 considered, will give data for geographical botany nearly as precise 

 as would the comparing of many families. I have studied the 

 Scrophulariaceae, keeping a record of each species, and making a 

 careful floral description of each. For the Temperate and Paramo 

 zones, and for the Tropical prairies, this family furnishes an excel- 

 lent index to floral areas. My collections were mainly in these 

 regions, and of herbaceous plants, so that from a phytogeographical 

 viewpoint, the selection of this family has been justified. It is my 

 hope to follow this study with that of some allied group requiring 

 forest environments, probably of the Gesneriaceae. 



The present paper gives the results of a study of only about one- 

 half the Scrophulariaceae of Colombia — those which we may cail 

 the Antirrhinoid genera. These fall into several tribes, each pre- 

 dominant or restricted to a special life-zone. The Gratioleae are 

 mainly Tropicai, while wholly so are the R-usselieae and Angelonieae. 

 The Mimuleae, Hemimerideae and Fagelieae, the last with many 

 conspicuous species, predominate in the Temperate Zone of the 

 mountain-slopes. The genus Barisia, of the Rhinanthoid Scrophu- 

 lariaceae and so yet to be studied, is best developed in the Paramo 

 Zone. 



Necessarily the chief basis of this study has been my own collec- 

 tions. I have however revised all the collections from Colombia 

 which I know to be in the United States. These are surprisingly 

 meagre, and from widely scattered localities. The chief are those 

 made by H. H. Smith in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in 

 1899-1901; by I. F. Holton near Bogota and in Valle in 1852-1856; 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 141 



and — more imperfect — certain series of specimens made in southern 

 Colombia by F. C. Lehmann and at "widespread stations over the 

 country by Jose Triana. To the custodians of the herbaria which 

 have loaned me specimens, the United States National Museum, Gray 

 Herbarium, and Field Museum of Natural History, as well as to my 

 colleagues at The New York Botanical Garden, I am under obligation. 



Also, I would mention my indebtedness to that group of Colom- 

 bian workers whom I had the privilege of meeting in 1917, the 

 growth of whose museum at Bogota has been phenomenal. Es- 

 pecially would I thank Brothers Ariste-Joseph and Ydinael, Her- 

 manos Cristianos of the Universidad de La Salle. A further word 

 of appreciation must be given to Sr. Santiago Cortes of Bogota, 

 who, working long alone, has been able to give to the world only 

 the first "volume of his "Flora de Colombia." 



The following study is primarily systematic, and keys are given 

 throughout. New species and those seen by the writer are care- 

 fully described. Synonomy for Colombia is cited fully, otherwise 

 only those names are included which are of first descriptions of 

 Colombian species. The original statement of distribution, or of 

 type-specimen is quoted, and the effort is made to firmly estab- 

 lish the nomenclature used. But it must be said that, as most of 

 the types are in Europe and inaccessible to me, and as Colombia's 

 flora is as yet very partially known, we cannot be certain of the 

 identity of some of these. But I believe that, with very few excep- 

 tions, the names now used will be permanent. 



For each species a statement of environment and distribution 

 is given, the latter made as definite as our knowledge permits, and 

 analysed accordingly to life -zone and Cordillera. Lastly is given 

 a list of specimens seen, these grouped under the Departments which 

 at present (1920) are in force. State-outlines in Colombia have 

 been so shifting that these limits have not always been easily ascer- 

 tainable. The herbaria in which specimens may be consulted are 

 indicated by the sjaiibols: 



A — The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



C — Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, 111, 



H — Gray Herbarium of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 



U — United States National Museum, Washington, D. C. 



Y — New York Botanical Garden, Bronx Park, New York City. 



My own collections may all be consulted at The New York Bo- 

 tanical Garden. Duplicates are being distributed to many her- 

 baria. 




142 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



At the conclusion of the systematic portion of this study there 

 is planned a synopsis of the geographic distribution of the Scropha- 

 lariaceae of Colombia, and also' a series of brief sketches of those 

 collectors in Colombia to whom reference will have been made in 

 the text. 



Key to Antirrhinoid Scrophulariaceae of Colombia.^ 



Corolla with the posterior lobes external in the bud. 



(ANTIRRHINOIDEAE.) 



Capsule septicidal, or loculicidal by a simple median split, the 

 septum breaking from the capsule-wall or rupturing. Cor- 

 olla not spurred. Leaves opposite or whorled in threes 

 (except in Capraria). 

 Corolla, even if saccate anteriorly, without a horn-like process 

 at the base of the anterior lobes. Capsule septicidal, or 

 loculicidal. Seeds, if reticulate, with lines not raised or 

 wing-like. 

 Stigma two-lipped. 



Capsule septicidal, or secondarily also somewhat loculicidal, 

 spHtting to base; placentae simple. Sepals distinct 

 or nearly so (except in Vandellia and Torenia). Leaves, 

 or rarely only the capsule, somewhat glandular-punc- 

 tate. Inflorescence simply racemose (if several pedi- 

 cels are in one axil, then no common peduncle is 

 evident). Corolla yellow, blue or white. 



L Gratioleae. 

 Capsule loculicidal (only tardily septicidal if at all), or 

 indehiscent; placentae branched and widely spreading. 

 Sepals united over one-half length. Leaves and cap- 

 sule not glandular-punctate. Inflorescence racemose, 

 or of axillary cymes a single one of which is terminal 

 to the primary peduncle. Corolla yellow, two-ridged 

 and pubescent within on the anterior side. 



II. Mimuleae. 

 Stigma capitate. 



Corolla conspicuously zygomorphic, the tube scarcely de- 

 veloped and the anterior lobes much exceeding the 

 posterior ones. Capsule without placental hairs, and 

 dehiscing only distally. Seeds ridged, not reticulate. 

 Leaves opposite, or the upper alternate. 

 Stamens four; anther-sacs with memljranous walls. Cor- 

 olla orange, flattened, its lobes all evident, the tube 

 split to base between the posterior lobes. Sepals 

 five, less than one-half the length of the capsule. 



^The warning must be given that the keys to tribes and genera are prepared 

 for Colombian species, and contrasts may not hold for extra-limital genera and 

 species. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Capsule scarcely dehiscing loculicidally. Seeds 

 blackish. Inflorescence simply racemose. Stem 

 quadrangular. III. Hemimerideae. 



Stamens two; anther-sacs with firm walls. Corolla yel- 

 low, its lips concave-saccate or the posterior much 

 reduced, the individual lobes scarcely or not evi- 

 dent, the tube not split to base between the posterior 

 lobes. Sepals four, at least one-half the length of 

 the capsule. Capsule dehiscing loculicidally as well 

 as septicidally. Seeds brown. Inflorescence cy- 

 mose, two pedicels of each cyme being terminal to 

 the primary peduncle. Stem terete or nearly so. 



IV. Fagelieae. 

 Corolla red, nearly regular, tubular, the short lobes nearly 

 equal. Capsule filled with slender hairs between which 

 are the scattered seeds, dehiscing to base septicidally. 

 , Seeds reticulate, not ridged. Leaves whorled in threes, 

 and the stem with six angles. Inflorescence of axillary 

 cymes, two pedicels of each being terminal to the 

 primary peduncle. V. Russelieae. 



Corolla violet-blue, saccate anteriorly and with a fine horn- 

 like process at the base of the anterior lobes. Capsule 

 locuhcidal, the septum only tardily if at all splitting sagit- 

 tally. Seeds reticulate, the reticular lines raised into 

 wing-like processes. Inflorescence simply racemose. 



VI. Angelonieae. 

 Capsule loculicidal, the septum and adjacent capsule-wall per- 

 sisting, the remaining wall splitting irregularly. Corolla 

 blue, with a spur at the base of the anterior petal. Leaves 

 alternate. VII. Antirrhineae. 



Corolla with the antero-lateral or anterior lobes external in the bud. 



(RHINANTH0IDEAE.2) 

 I. GRATIOLEAE. 



Leaves alternate, serrate. Stamens five. Corolla essentially 



regular, the five lobes equally distinct. 1. Capraria. 

 Leaves opposite or whorled in threes. Stamens four, three or 

 two (the posterior one lost). Corolla more or less zygo- 

 inorphic, the two posterior lobes united over one-half their 

 length. 

 Leaves entire to serrate-dentate. Capsule globose to lanceo- 

 late in outline. Seeds not regularly cylindric nor spirally 

 ridged, disposed in more than one row within each valve 

 of the capsule. 

 Corolla with the ridges to the antero-lateral sinuses, if 

 developed, low and not projecting beyond those points 

 (so anterior filaments simple). Style not with a semi- 

 persistent callose base. Septum rupturing, so that the 



2 To be considered in a second paper. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



placental mass eventually stands free. Pedicels fre- 

 quently bibracteolate. Stem, if quadrangular, with 

 the angles not conspicuously ridged or winged. 

 Anther-sacs proximate, no connective arms developed. 

 Seeds reticulate. Leaves sessile or nearly so. 

 Pedicels bibracteolate. Sepals five. 



Pedicels bibracteolate at base (remote from the 

 calyx). Corolla yellow, pubescent within at 

 base of posterior lobes. Sepals unequal, and 

 leaves serrate. Plant repent-ascending. 



2. Mecardonia. 

 Pedicels bibracteolate at apex (just beneath calyx). 



Corolla violet-blue or white. 

 Filaments four, all with anthers. Bractlets 1 

 mm. or less long, much shorter than the 

 sepals. 

 Sepals unequal, the outer much larger than 

 the narrow innermost. Corolla pubescent 

 within at base of posterior lobes, or gla- 

 brous, violet-blue or white. Capsule glo- 

 bose-ovoid to oblong. Leaves serrate to 

 entire, and stems, erect or ascending. 



3. Caconapea^ 

 Sepals uniform. Corolla pubescent within at 



base of the anterior lobes. Capsule de- 

 pressed-globose. Leaves serrate and stem 

 repent-ascending. 4. Conobea. 



Filaments two, the anterior rudimentary or want- 

 ing. Bractlets 5-10 mm. long, equaling or 

 exceeding the nearly uniform sepals. Cor- 

 olla pubescent at base of the posterior lobes, 

 white or pinkish-tinged. Leaves serrate and 

 stem ascending or erect. 5. Graiiola. 

 Pedicels not bracteolate. Sepals four or five. Cor- 

 • olla blue or white. 



Corolla glabrous within. Sepals unequal, the inner- 

 most narrowest. Leaves palmately veined, 

 entire or slightly undulate. Pedicels tending 

 to deflex in fruit. Plants repent. 

 Outermost sepal cordate, much exceeding the 

 linear-attenuate innermost ones; five sepals 

 always present. Capsule oblong or ovoid- 

 oblong, acute, brown, much shorter than the 

 sepals. Styles united to apex. Corolla blue 

 or white. 6. Monocardia. 



^Bramia monnieri (L.) Pennell, a repent herb, with broadly rounded entire 

 leaves, corolla with distinct posterior lobes, and outer sepal scarcely longer than 

 the innermost, is widespread in Tropical America, and must surely occur on moist 

 semi-brackish sands along the Colombian coast. See, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. 

 1919: 243, 1920. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



Outermost sepal ovate-oblong, scarcely longer than 

 the lanceolate innermost, one of which may 

 be lost. Capsule nearly globose, obtuse, pale- 

 brown, little shorter than the sepals. Styles 

 distinct near apex. Corolla white. 

 Corolla 4 mm. long, appearing four-lobed be- 

 cause the three petals forming the anterior 

 lip are all evident. Stamens four. Sepals 

 five or four. 7. Macuillamia. 



Corolla 2 mm. long, appearing three-lobed be- 

 cause the anterior petal is lost, leaving the 

 anterior lip two-lobed. Stamens three 

 (only one of the antero -lateral pair devel- 

 oped). Sepals four. 8. Hydranthelium. 

 Corolla white, denselj^ hirsute within over bases of 

 all lobes. Sepals four, uniform. Leaves pin- 

 nately veined, serrate-dentate. Pedicels per- 

 manently ascending -spreading. Plant erect. 



9. Scoparia. 

 Anther-sacs separated on short arms of the connective. 

 Seeds longitudinally striate, the striae frequently 

 tuberculate. Corolla blue or white. Plants erect. 

 Pedicels bibracteolate, 1 mm. long or less. Corolla 

 blue, pubescent within on the anterior side. Cap- 

 sule acuminate. Seeds tuberculate-striate. Leaves 

 cordate-clasping at base. Tall herb. 



10. Stemodia. 

 Pedicels not bracteolate. Corolla pubescent within 



on the posterior side, or glabrous. Seeds min- 

 utely roughened-tuberculate or smooth. Leaves 

 narrowed at base. 

 Leaves sessile or nearly so, in whorls of three. Cor- 

 olla 9-13 mm. long, glabrous within, blue. 

 Capsule acuminate. Seeds minutely roughened- 

 tuberculate. Style semi-persistent. Tall herb. 



11. Unanuea. 

 Leaves evidently petioled. opposite. Corolla 4-8 



mm. long, pubescent within on the posterior 

 side, blue or w^hite. Capsule acutish. Seeds 

 smooth, with rounded ridges. Style soon de- 

 ciduous. Low herbs. 12. Lendneria. 

 Corolla violet-blue or white, with two raised ridges (each 

 formed by the adherence of a filament) to the antero- 

 lateral sinuses, and which frequently project as knob- 

 like processes beyond those points (the free portion 

 of the filament appearing as a lateral outgrowth of 

 the adherent portion). Style with a semi-persistent, 

 frequently enlarged and callose base. Septum per- 

 sistent, with the attached placentae. Pedicels never 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj^-Oct., 



bracteolate. Stem quadrangular, the angles ridged or 

 slightly winged. 

 Sepals united over one-third length. Filaments all with 

 anthers. Seeds not with transverse lines. Leaves 

 petioled, serrate-dentate. Angles of stem shghtly 

 winged. 

 Pedicels 1-2 mm. long. Sepals united nearly one- 

 half their length, much shorter than the capsule. 

 Corolla straight, the tube strongly horizontally 

 flattened, the posterior lip purple-brown, else- 

 where corolla white throughout, pubescent within 

 on ridges to antero-lateral sinuses; the free por- 

 tions of the anterior filaments appearing as up- 

 curved from the apices of these ridges. Capsule 

 accuminate, finely pubescent to glabrous. Seeds 

 tuberculate. Leaves oval, rounded, narrowed at 

 base. Plant repent, pubescent. 



13. Vandellia. 

 Pedicels 10-25 mm. long. Sepals united over three- 

 fourths length, equaling or shghtly longer than 

 the capsule. Corolla decurved, the tube scarcely 

 or not flattened horizontally, blue or white, gla- 

 brous within on the ridges to antero-lateral sin- 

 uses; the free portions of the anterior filaments 

 appearing as outgrowths proximad to the apices 

 of these ridges which therefore terminate as short 

 knobs. Capsule mucronate or acute, glabrous. 

 Seeds shallowly pitted. Leaves ovate or lanceo- 

 late-ovate, acute, truncate-cuneate at base. Plants 

 repent to erect, glabrous. 14. Torenia. 



Sepals distinct or nearly so. Antero-lateral filaments 

 without anthers. Seeds with fine transverse lines. 

 Leaves sessile, mostly clasping, Siightly crenate or 

 entire. Angles of stem ridged, not winged. Corolla 

 blue. Plant diffused-ascending, glabrous. 



15. Ilysanthes. 

 Leaves pinnatifid. Capsule Unear-attenuate in outline. 

 Seeds regularly cylindric, spirally ridged, disposed in one 

 row within each valve of the capsule. Corolla purple- 

 blue. Plant low, branched, erect. 16. Schistoyhragma. 



II. MIMULEAE. 



Capsule oblong, dehiscing loculicidally, its walls dry, mem- 

 branous, brownish. Calyx-tube longer than and enclos- 

 ing the capsule, its ribs slightly winged, its lobes decidedly 

 unequal, the posterior longest. Corolla 10-15 mm. long, 

 yellow, with many red-brown spots within throat on the 

 anterior side. Leaves broadly ovate, shortly petioled, 1-4 

 cm. long. Inflorescence of axillar}^ simple pedicels. Stem 

 obscurely angled, not winged. Plant low, repent-ascend- 

 ing. 17. Minmlus. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Capsule globose, indehiscent, its walls fleshy, white. Calyx- 

 tube shorter than the capsule, its ribs not winged, its lobes 

 slightly unequal, the posterior longest. Corolla 15-18 mm. 

 long, yellow throughout. Leaves lanceolate, cordate- 

 clasping at base, 15-20 cm. long. Inflorescence of axillary 

 several-branched cymes, borne upon conspicuous peduncles. 

 Stem with angles narrowly winged. Plant tall, erect, 

 widely branched from base. 18. Leucocarpus. 



III. HEMIMERIDEAE. 19. AJonsoa. 



IV. FAGELIEAE. 20. FageJia. 



V. RUSSELIEAE. 21. Russelia. 



VI. ANGELONIEAE. 22. Angelonia. 



VII. ANTIRRHINEAE. 23. Linaria. 



1 CAPRARIA Linne. 

 Capraria L., Sp. PI. 628. 1753. 



Type species, Capraria biflora L. 



1. Capraria biflora L. 



Capraria biflora L., 1. c. 628. 1753. "Habitat in Curassao." Specimens 

 from Curagao seen in herbarium New York Botanical Garden. 



Capraria lanceolata Vahl, Eel. Am. 2: 47. 1798. "Habitat ad St. ]\Iar- 

 tham. von Robr." Not C. lanceolata L. f., Suppl. 284. 1781. Von 

 Rohr's plant was the pubescent form prevalent in Colombia, but appears 

 to have represented an abnormal state in which the pedicels are short 

 and arise from an abbreviated branch. 



Capraria. semiserraia Willd., Sp. PI. 3: 324. 1800. New name for C. 



lanceolata Vahl. 

 Capraria semiserrata berterii A. DC; Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 429. 1846. 



"Ad Stam. Martham (Bert.! in h. DC.)." An entire-leaved state. 



A widespread species of lowiand Tropical America, growing mostly 

 on and near the seashore, but extending inland on river-banks, 

 plains and waste land. Very variable, but with most states found 

 in the same region or even in the same colony. Varies in size of 

 leaves, in form of leaves from linear-lanceolate to nearly ovate, and 

 in serration from entire to sharply serrate-dentate; varies in the 

 length of the pedicels; varies in length of and attenuation of the 

 sepals, in size of corolla from 8 to 10 mm. long, and somewhat pubes- 

 cent or glabrous within anteriorly, and in capsules from oblong to 

 ovoid, and from round and emarginate to acutish. Most con- 

 spicuously does the plant vary in pubescence, from glabrous through- 

 out, through states with the stem pubescent and the pedicels glabrous 

 or the pedicels sparsely pubescent — pubescent either with short or 

 long hairs — to forms densely hirsute on stems, pedicels, sepals and 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



the midribs and margins of the leaves. The last state (forma hirta* 

 Loes. in Bull. Herb. Boiss. ser. II, 3: 284. 1903. "Habitat in Guate- 

 mala, in dept. Chiquimula in ruderalibus ad S. Juan Ermita: Sel[er] 

 n. 3314." Isotype seen in herbarium New York Botanical Garden) 

 prevails in Colombia. 



River-banks, flats and sandy waysides, at altitudes below 200 

 meters. Tropical zone; the typical form near the Caribbean shore 

 (doubtless also along the Pacific shore), forma hirla Loes. (indicated 

 in lists by asterisk) along the lower river-courses and across the 

 Sabana of Bolivar. 



Antioquia. *Brazuela de Perales, on Rio Magdalena (river-flat, 

 alt. 150 m.), Pennell 3704; *Vuelta de Acufia, on Rio Magdalena 

 (sandy loam, alt. 125-130 m.), Pennell 3789. 



Bolivar. *Calamar (along Rio Magdalena, alt. 15-25 m.), Rusby 

 & Pennell 20; Cartagena, I. F. Holton 582 (H, Y), (roadside, alt. 

 5-10 m.), Rusby & Pennell 3 (somewhat pubescent with short 

 hairs). *Since (edge of thicket, alt. 120-170 m.), Pennell 4039; 

 *Turbaco (thin loam over white rock, alt. 150-200 m.), Pennell 

 4761; *Vilches, on Rio Sinu (orchard, alt. 20-50 m.), Pennell 4711. 



Magdalena. *Bonda (open damp place, alt. 45 m.), H. H. Smith 

 1331 (C, H, U, Y). Don Jaco (near the coast), H. H. Smith 551 

 (C, H, U, Y). Playa Brava (open plain near the coast), H. H. 

 Smith 2823 (Y). Santa Marta (railroad bank, alt. 0-10 m.), Pen- 

 nell 4771. Around Rio Frio (between the Cienaga de Santa Marta 

 and the foothills, alt. 0-100 m.), H. Pittier 1611 (U). 



2 MECARDONIA Ruiz and Pa von. 



Mecardonia R. & P. [Fl. Peruv. et Chil. Prod. 9.5. 1794, generic diagnosis]; 

 Syst. Veg. Fl. Peruv. et Chil. 164. 1798. 



Type species, M. ovata Ruiz & Pavon,^ of Peru. 



^ This state has been described also as Capraria lanceolata Vahl, and C. semi- 

 serrata Willd. (above), as C. hirsuta H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 355. 1818, 

 from Mexico, and as C. biflora /3 pilosa Griseb., Fl. Brit. W. I., 427, 1861, from 

 the Bahamas. The first name should be used if this be accounted a distinct 

 species, the last if a variety, and Im-ta if a form. 



^Mecardonia ovata Ruiz & Pavon, Syst. Veg. Fl. Peruv. et Chil. 164. 1798. 

 "Habitat in Peruviae plateis ad Chinchao et Cuchero vicos." Description 

 appears to be certainly that of M. procumbens (Mill.) Small, a wide-spread plant 

 to be expected in Peru. The only discrepancy is in describing the calyx as hepta- 

 phyllous, although it' is stated that the two small outer leaves are deciduous. 

 Possibly the bractlets at the base of the pedicel were noted approxirnating the 

 flower in very young buds, or more probably an error of vision was made, and 

 because later it could not be checked the imagined bractlets were considered 

 to be deciduous. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



1. Mecardonia procumbens (Mill.) Small. 



Erirms procumbens Mill., Gard. Diet. ed. VIII. n. 6. 1768. "Houst. 



MSS." 

 Herpestis caprtirioides H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 368. 1818. "Crescit 



locis arenosis, siccis Rcgni Novo-Granatensis in ripa fluminis Magdalenae 



juxta El Peiion [Humboldt & Bonpland]." 

 Monniera procumbens (Mill.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 463. 1891. 

 Mecardonia procumbens (MiW.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 106.5. 1338. 1903. 

 Bacopa procumbens (Mill.) Greenm. in Field Col. Mus., Bot. Scr. 2: 261. 



1907. 

 Herpestis procumbens (Mill.) Urb., Symb. Bot. 4: .5.58. 1911. 



Moist open soil, along streams in loam or sand, at altitudes below 

 1200 meters. Tropical zone, doubtless throughout lowland Colom- 

 bia, largely as a weed. Also in the Sabana of Bogota, at an altitude 

 of 2600 meters, probably introduced. Widespread throughout 

 Tropical America. 



Antioquia. Opposite Boca Carare (forest along R. Magdalena, 

 ait. 125 m.), Pennell 3829. 



Bolivar. Boca Verde on Rio Sinu (field along river, alt. 100-200 

 m.), Pennell 4568; Canabetal (sand along river, alt. 90-100 m.), 

 Pennell 3874; Sincelejo (thicket, alt. 150-200 m.), Pennell 4068. 



Caldas. Buena Vista (moist open sand, alt. 170-180 m.), Rusby 

 & Pennell 63. 



Cundinamarca, Bogota (desiccated soil in meadow, alt. 2600 

 m.), Pennell 1909 [small-leaved form which has been described as 

 Herpestis chamaedryoides H. B. K.]; Icononzo (loam slope, alt. 900- 

 1000 m.), Pennell 2777. 



Huila. Natagaima (soil frequently overflowed by river, alt. 400 - 

 450 m.), Rusby & Pennell 1182; Quebrada de Angeles above Nata- 

 gaima (gravel, alt. 450-600 m.), Rusby & Pennell 286. 



Magdalena. Masinga (damp clearings, alt. 90-750 m.), H. H. 

 Smith 1326 (Y), Agua Dulce, H. H. Smith 1326 (Y). 



Meta. Villavicencio (moist meadow along Rio Guatiquia, (alt. 

 500 m.), Pennell 1556. 



ToUma. Honda (moist sandy field, alt. 250-300 m.), Pennell 

 3620; Libano (field on "La Trinidad," alt. 90C-1200 m.), Pennell 

 3368. 



Valle. La Paila, L F. Holton 579 (Y). 



3. CACONAPEA Chamisso. 

 Caconapea Cham, in Linnaea 8: 28. 1833. 



Type species C. gratioloides Cham., of Brazil. 



Pedicels 5-10 mm. long, one to an axil. Corolla 5-7 mm. long, 

 pubescent or puberulent within over base of posterior lobes; 

 lobes violet, throat yellow within, especially on the anterior 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



side and lined with violet, the posterior lobes united nearly to 

 apex. 

 Corolla 7 mm. long, pubescent within. Anthers all uniform. 

 Sepals strongly dissimilar, the outer ovate, all puberulent. 

 Capsule septicidal, with thick protuberant placentae, in de- 

 hiscence portions of the septum remain adhering 1 3 the walls. 

 Seeds conspicuously reticulate. Leaves lanceolate-elliptic, 

 crenate-serrate. Stem sharply quadrangular, 1-3 dm. tall. 



1. C. auriculata. 

 Corolla 5 mm. long, puberulent within. Anthers of posterior 

 filaments larger. Sepals slightly dissimilar, the outer lanceo- 

 late, all somewhat pubescent. Capsule loculicidal, with thin 

 placentae, placed along median line of the septum which 

 ultimately breaks free from the lateral walls. Seeds finely 

 reticulate. Leaves linear, entire. Stem obscurely quad- 

 rangular, .3-. 5 dm. tall. 2. C. debilis. 

 Pedicels less than 2 mm. long, usually several to an axil. Corolla 

 2-3 mm. long, glabrous within; lobes white or violet, throat 

 white and without lines. Placentae thin, attached to median 

 line of septum. Seeds finely reticulate. 

 Leaves tapering to the narrow base. Stem pilose with spreading 



white hairs. 3. C. axillaris. 



Leaves rounded-clasping at base. Stem appressed-pubescent or 

 glandular-dotted. 

 Corolla deciduous, white throughout, its posterior lobes united 

 nearly to apex. Exterior sepals rounded, all glabrous or 

 obscurely puberulent. Stem whitish with appressed re- 

 flexed hairs. 4. C. appressa. 



Corolla persistent, lobes violet-blue, its posterior lobes united 

 only three -fifths length. All sepals acute, each with a 

 tuft of white hairs at apex. Stem yellowish with sessile 

 glands. • 5. C. conjeria. 



1. Caconapea auriculata (Rob.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Herpestis auriculata Rob. in Proc. Am. Acad. 26: 172. 1891. "Wet places 

 near Guadalajara [Mexico]; November, 1889 [C. G. Pringle] (n. 2937)." 

 Later collections of Pringle from near Guadalajara, 4623 and 6148, seen 

 in herbarium of Columbia University at The New York Botanical Garden. 



Bacopa auriculata (Rob.) Greenm. in Field Col. Mus.. Bot. Ser. 2: 262. 

 1897. 



Stem 1-3 dm. tall, sharply four-angled, glabrous to slightly puberu- 

 lent above. Leaves 1-1.7 cm. long, .5-. 8 cm. wide, oblong-lanceo- 

 late, crenate, often dentate at and near base, obtuse, rounded-clasp- 

 ing at base; glabrous or glabrate. Pedicels solitary, 5-10 mm. long, 

 puberulent. Bractlets linear-subulate, less than 1 mm. long. 

 Sepals obscurely puberulent: outermost 4 mm. long, ovate, obtuse 

 to acute, obscurely veined; two median slightly shorter and more 

 narrowly ovate; two innermost 3 mm. long, linear-attenuate, 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



somewhat hyaline. Corolla 7 mm. long; posterior lobes united 

 nearly to apex; pubescent within tube, especially on anterior 

 side, pubescent in horizontal line over bases of posterior lobes; 

 within tube yellow, extending to base of anterior lobes, distally 

 and over lobes violet-blue, with longitudinal fine deep-violet 

 lines. Filaments glabrous, the postero-lateral pair slightly shorter, 

 its anthers equalling those of the antero lateral pair; posterior 

 filament represented by a tiny knob. Style glabrous, at apex bifid 

 and bearing two plate like stigmas. Capsule 2.5-3 mm. long, 

 globose-ovoid, glabrous, dehiscing septicidally, the lateral portions 

 of the septum adhering to the capsule wall. Placentae pro- 

 truding into the cells, not coalescent. Seeds .4 mm. long, cres- 

 centic-cylindric, truncate at the apex, brown, with evident longi- 

 tudinal lines and cross -reticulations. 



Wet open soil, sandy or loam, at altitudes of 500 to 800 meters, 

 Tropical zone, llanos of upper Magdalena valley. Doubtless in the 

 Sabina of Bolivar and elsewhere in northern Colombia. Ranges 

 northward to Mexico. 



Cundinamarca. Melgar (moist open clayey loam, alt. 500-600 

 m.), Pennell 2885. 



Huila. Neiva (seepy place in plain, alt. 550-600 m.), Rusby & 

 Pennell 1067. 



Tolima. San Lorenzo (open springj^ loam, w. of, alt. 600-800 

 m.), Pennell 3531. 



2. Caconapea debilis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stems ascending, repent and matted below, becoming erect and 

 .3-. 5 dm. tall, obscurely four-angled, finely pubescent with reflexed 

 appressed w^hite hairs. Leaves .4-. 6 cm. long, .07-. 1 cm. wide, 

 linear, obtuse, clasping (but not dilated) at base, nerveless beneath; 

 finely pubescent on the midrib beneath or glabrous throughout. 

 Pedicels solitary, 5-7 mm. long, finely pubescent with reflexed hairs. 

 Bractlets linear-subulate, less than .5 mm. long. Sepals: outermost 

 3.5 mm. long, linear-lanceolate obtuse; two median slightly shorter 

 but nearly similar, these three green, glabrous or nearly so, except 

 for a frequent terminal tuft of short hairs; the tw^o innermost 3 

 mm. long, lanceolate-linear, acuminate, with broad scarious margins 

 and ciliate with minute white hairs. Corolla 5 mm. long; posterior 

 lobes united nearly to apex; externally minutely pubescent, within 

 slightly pubescent over bases of the posterior lobes, elsewhere 

 glabrous; within tube pale, yellowish on anterior side, lined with 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



violet, distally over lobes violet. Filaments glabrous, the pos- 

 tero-lateral pair shorter, its anthers more than twice larger than 

 those of the antero-lateral pair. Style glabrous, with two plate-like 

 stigmas. Capsule 2 mm. long, oblongpyriform, rounded and retuse 

 at apex, glabrous, dehiscing loculicidally. Placentae thin, linear, 

 flattened against the persistent septum. Seeds about .2 mm. long, 

 oval, slightly crescentic, yellowish-brown, obscurely ridged to some- 

 what reticulate at maturity. 



Type, shallow pool in llano, east of Villavicencio, Meta, altitude 

 about 450 meters, collected in flower and fruit September 2, 1917, 

 F. W. Pennell 1623 in herbarium New York Botanical Garden. 



Nearest to Herpestis reptans Benth. of Brazil, which is described 

 as having leaves .2-.3 cm. wide, linear-lanceolate, prominently 

 nerved beneath, all sepals obtuse and seeds yellow. 



Shallow pools in llano, at an altitude of 450 meters. Tropical 

 zone in Meta. 



3. Caconapea axillaris (Benth.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Htrpestis axillaris Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 396. 1846. "Ad aquas stag- 

 nan tes in campis Deluvia Sanctae Marthae (Purdie!) ... (v. in 

 herb. Hook.)." 



Moimiera axillaris (Benth.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 463. 1891. 



Tropical zone, in Magdalena. No specimens seen. 



4. Caconapea appressa Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem .7-1.5 dm. tall, obscurely four-angled, below glabrous, above 

 pubescent with reflexed white hairs. Leaves 1-2 cm. long, .3-.4 

 cm. wide, lanceolate-linear, entire, tapering from the rounded- 

 clasping base, glabrous, glandular-dotted. Pedicels 1-5 in an axil, 

 1-2 mm. long, pubescent with reflexed hairs. Bractlets filiform- 

 subulate, less than 1 mm. long. Sepals glabrous, densely glandular- 

 punctate : outermost 3 mm. long, ovate ; the next nearly as wide, the 

 median one-sided, narrower, these three obtuse, somewhat reticulate, 

 glabrous; the two innermost narrowly lanceolate, attenuate, costate, 

 with the margins hyaline and ciliolate. Corolla 2-2.5 mm. long; 

 posterior lobes united nearly to apex; glabrous throughout; white 

 throughout. Filaments glabrous, the postero-lateral pair slightly 

 shorter and its anthers slightly smaller. Style glabrous, bearing two 

 approximate stigmas. Capsule 2 mm. long, narrowly cylindric 

 oblong, glabrous, dehiscing septicidally and loculicidally, none of the 

 septum adhering to the capsule wall. Placentae narrow, thin, a little 

 raised line median to the persistent broad septum. Seeds .5 mm. 

 long, cylindric, tapering to each end, brown, with longitudinal ridges 

 and fine cross lines. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Type, moist depression in llano east of Villavicencio, Meta, alti- 

 tude about 450 meters, collected in flower and fruit, August 28 and 

 September 2, 1917, F. W. Pennell 1460, in herbarium New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



Moist soil, in llanos, at an altitude of 450 meters, Tropical zone, 

 in Meta. 



5. Caconapea conferta Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem .5-1.8 dm. tall, obscurely four-angled, below glabrous, above 

 puberulent with sessile yellowish glands. Leaves 1-2 cm. long, 

 .2-.4 cm. wide, narrowly lanceolate, tapering from the rounded- 

 clasping base, entire, densely glandular-dotted. Pedicels 1-5 in an 

 axil, less than 1 mm. long, puberulent with sessile glandular dots. 

 Bractlets fiiiform-subulate, less than 1 mm. long. Sepals denselj^ 

 glandular-puberulent, each tipped with a tuft of white hairs : outer- 

 most 3 mm. long, narrowly ovate; two median narrower and one- 

 sided, these three acuminate; two innermost 2.5 mm. long, lanceolate- 

 attenuate, somewhat hyaline-margined and more ciliolate. Corolla 

 3 mm. long; posterior lobes united f length; glabrous throughout; its 

 tube white, lobes violet-blue, darker distally within. Filaments 

 glabrous, bluish, the postero-lateral pair slightly shorter; anthers all 

 of about the same size, light-yellow. Style glabrous bearing two 

 stigmas. Capsule 2 mm. long, ellipsoid-oblong, glabrous, dehiscing 

 septicidally and loculicidally, none of the septum adhering to the 

 capsule-wall. Placentae narrow, thin, median to the persistent broad 

 septmn. Seeds .3 mm. long, cylindric, slightly irregularly curved, 

 rounded, brown, with fine longitudinal ridges. 



Type, moist depression, in llano east of Villavicencio, Meta, alti- 

 tude about 450 meters, collected in flower and fruit August 28 and 

 September 2, 1917, F. W. Pennell 1435; in herbarium New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



Moist soil in llanos, at an altitude of 450 meters. Tropical zone, 

 in Meta. 



4. CONOBEA Aublet. 

 Conobea Aubl., Hist. PL Guiane Fr. 2: 639. pi. 258. 1775. 

 Type species, C. aquatica Aubl., of Guiana. 



1 . Conobea scoparioides (C. & S.) Benth. 



Sphaerotheca scoparioides Cham. & Schlechtd. in Linnaea 2: 606. 1827. 



"E Brasilia aequinoctiali misit Sellow." 

 Conobea scoparioides (C. & S.) Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 391. 1846. 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct,., 



Tropical zone, collected only in Choco, but doubtless widespread 

 in northern and eastern Colombia. Widespread through eastern 

 lowland South America. 



Choco. Novisa, J. Triana (H, Y). 



5. GRATIOLA Linne. 

 GrafiolaL., Sp. PI. 17. 17.53. 

 Type species, G. officinalis L., of Europe. 



1. Gratiola bogotensis Cortes, sp. nov. 



Spreading extensively by rootstocks. Aerial stems erect or de- 

 cumbent at base, succulent, slightly puberulent, 1-4 dm. tall. Leaves 

 oblong-lanceolate, 1.5-2.5 cm. long, .3-.8 cm. wide, clasping by a 

 rounded base, distally dentate and glandular-punctate, finely puberu- 

 lent to glabrate. Pedicels 1-2 mm. long. Bractlets similar to and 

 equaling or slightly exceeding the lanceolate calyx-lobes, 5-10 mm. 

 long. Corolla 12-14 mm. long, its tube four-angled, yellowish, 

 with fine brown lines, its lobes spreading, white, somewhat pinkish- 

 tinged or at times the corolla strongly pink. Anterolateral fila- 

 ments evident, each capped by two small rudimentary anthers. 

 Capsule ovoid, 5 mm. long. Seeds .5 mm. long, obovoid, conspicu- 

 ously alveolate-reticulate. 



Type, wet grassy place, base of mountain above Chapinero, near 

 Bogota, Cundinamarca, altitude 2700-2800 meters, collected in 

 flower and fruit September 23, 1917, Pennell 2108 in Herb. New 

 York Botanical Garden. This was collected in company with Sr. 

 Santiago Cortes, who designated it by the name here given. 



A near ally or possibly geographical variety, of Gratiola peruvi- 

 ana L., Sp. PI. 17. 1753, based upon Feuillee's description and 

 drawing of a plant found in the mountains of Chile, at 26° S. L. 

 Feuillee's plant is well-matched by a specimen collected by Otto 

 Kuntze in February, 1892, at Ervilla, Chile, and which has the 

 stem less fleshy, the leaves broader and the pedicels slightly longer 

 than does our plant. 



Wet grassy places, springheads and ditches, at altitudes of 2600 

 to 3200 meters. Temperate zone, ascending, in dwarf form, to Par- 

 amo, Cordillera Oriental, and Cordillera Central, southward at 

 least into Ecuador. 



Cundinamarca. Bogota (ditch in meadow, alt. 2600 m.), Pen- 

 nell 1908, (wet grassy place near Chapinero, alt. 2700-2800 m.) 

 Pennell 2108, (southwest of Las Cruces, open spring-head, alt. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



2600-2700 m.) Pennell 2158; Sibate (wet loam, alt. 2700-2800 m.), 

 Pennell 2451; Ubaque (wet ditfch, edge of paramo, alt. 3000-3200 

 m.), Pennell 1902; Zipaquira (Mt. Aquila, edge of pool, just below 

 paramo, alt. 3100 m.), Pennell 2532. 



Nariiio. Tuquerres (alt. 3000 m.), Triana (H, Y). 



Tolima. IMurillo (pool, alt. 2600-2800 m.), Pennell 3155. 



6. MONOCARDIA'5 Pennell, gen. nov. 



Stems much branched, terete, repent, the apices ascending. 

 Leaves sessile, slightly clasping, oblong to orbicular, entire, pal- 

 mately-veined from base, obscurely glandular-dotted and not odor- 

 ous. Pedicels axillary, 6 20 mm. long, pubescent, not bracteolate. 

 Caljrx of 5 very dissimilar sepals; outermost (posterior) heart- 

 shaped; two antero-latei'als smaller, obliquely, or but one-half cor- 

 date- or truncate-ovate, three outei- prominently reticulate; two pos- 

 tero-laterals (innermost) linear-attenuate, only % length of outer- 

 most and usually slightly longer than the capsule. Corolla 3-7 

 mm. long, the widely-spreading lobes longer than the tube, the two 

 posterior lobes united nearly throughout; glabrous throughout, blue 

 or white. Stamens four, glabrous, didynamous (the posterior fila- 

 ments shorter and usually anthers smaller) ; anthers uniform, the 

 narrow sacs closely connivent, each opening its entire length. Style 

 glabrous, httie exceeding the sepals. Stigmas distinct, flat. Cap- 

 sule 2-4 mm. long, much shorter than calyx, oblong or ovoid-oblong, 

 acute, brown, septicidal and loculicidal; the septum with adherent 

 thin placentae, persisting plate-like. Seeds .2-.3 mm. long, oblong, 

 blackish-brown, ridged and with cross-reticulations. 



Type species, M. violacea Pennell. 



Hydrotrida Small, in general aspect like this genus, differs in pos- 

 sessing a circle of bristles surrounding the ovary, pubescence within 

 over the bases of the corolla -lobes, two bracteoles below the calj^x, 

 and more conspicuous glands which exhale a strong aromatic odor. 



Pedicels and sepals with spreading hairs. Stems and leaves beneath 



pubescent. Corolla blue. 



Corolla 6-7 mm. long. Calyx 5-7 mm. long. Leaves 1.2-1.8 



cm. long, and nearly as wide. Stems densely hirsute, 2-3 



dm. long. 1. M. violacea. 



Corolla 4-5 mm. long. Calyx 4-6 mm. long. Leaves .7-1.8 cm. 



long, ovate-oblong. Stems pubescent, less than 1.5 dm. 



long. 



^Name from (xovoq, one, and KapBta, heart, in allusion to the single large cor- 

 date sepal. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Leaves 1.2-1.8 cm. long, the younger pubescent along midrib 



beneath. Sepals 5-6 mm. long. 2. M. lilacina. 



Leaves .7-.9 cm. long, the younger pubescent over the entire 



surface beneath. Sepals 4-5 mm. long. 3. M. humilis. 



Plant glabrous throughout. Corolla white, 3-3.5 mm. long. 



4. M. albida. 



1. Monocardia violacea Penneli, sp. nov. 



Stems fleshy, 2-3 dm. long or longer, densely hirsute with yellow- 

 ish hairs. Leaves ovate- or oval -orbicular, 1.2-1.8 cm. long, 1-1.4 

 cm. wide, obtuse, pubescent beneath along midrib proximally, 

 distally glabrous and obscurely reticulate. Pedicels 10-20 mm. 

 long, hirsute with spreading hairs. Sepals all ciliate: the three 

 outer 5-7 mm. long, the innermost pubescent on the midrib. Cor- 

 olla 6-7 mm. long; tube yellow, distally purplish, the lobes violet. 

 Filaments violet-bluish; anthers white. Capsule 3-4 mm. long, 

 narrowly oblong. Seeds .3 mm. long, brown. 



Type, wet loam, along trail in forest, near Villa\'icencio, Meta, 

 altitude 450 meters, collected in flower and fruit August 28, 1917, 

 F.W. Penneli 1480; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. Only 

 specimen seen. 



Wet loam in forest at an altitude of 450 meters. Tropical zone, 

 in Meta, and in Panama. Doubtless wide-spread in northern South 

 America. 



2. Monocardia lilacina Penneli, sp. nov. 



Stems slightly fleshy, .5-1.5 dm. long, pubescent with spreading 

 hairs. Leaves ovate-oblong, 1.2-1.8 cm. long, .8-1.1 cm. wide; 

 obtuse, pubescent beneath along midrib proximally. Pedicels 8-12 

 mm. long, pubescent with spreading hairs. Sepals all ciliate: the 

 three outer 5-6 mm. long, two innermost pubescent on the midrib, 

 shorter. Corolla 4-5 mm. long, \iolet "within throat, the lobes pale- 

 blue. Filaments of anterior stamens pale-blue, of posteiior violet; 

 anthers pale-blue. Capsule 2.5-3 mm. long, ovoid-oblong. Seeds 

 .2-.25 mm. long, blackish. 



Type, wet loam, along trail in forest, near Villavicencio, Meta, 

 alt. 450 meters, collected in flower and fruit August 28, 1917. F. W. 

 Penneli 1476; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Wet loam in forest, at altitudes of 450 to 500 meters, Tropical 

 zone, in Meta. 



Meta. Villavicencio (wet trail in forest, alt, 500 m.), Penneli 

 1378, (alt. 450 m.), Penneli 1476, (wet place near Rio Guatiquia, 

 alt. 500 m.), Penneli 1547. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



3. Monocardia humilis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stems not fleshy, .2-1 dm. long, pubescent "with spreading hairs. 

 Leaves ovate-oblong, .7-.9 cm. long, .3-.8 cm. wide, obtuse, at least 

 when young hirsute over entire under surface, not evidently reticu- 

 late. Pedicels 6-9 mm. long, pubescent with spreading hairs. 

 Sepals all ciliate: the three outer 4-5 mm. long, pubescent over 

 entire outer sm-face. Corolla 4-5 mm. long, violet within throat, 

 the lobes pale-blue. Filaments of anterior stamens pale-blue, of 

 posterior violet; anthers pale-blue. Capsule 2-3 mm. long, ovoid- 

 oblong. Seeds .2-.25 mm. long, blackish. 



Type, sandy soil, seepy place in plain east of Neiv'a, Huila, alt. 

 550-600 meters collected in flower and fruit August 8, 1917, Rusby 

 & Pennell 1065; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Wet open soil, sandy or loam, at altitudes below 800 meters, 

 Tropical zone, llanos of upper Magdalena valley, and in Panama. 

 Doubtless in the Sabana of Bolivar. 



Huila. Neiva (sandy seepy place in plain east of N., alt. 550- 

 600 m.), Rusby & Pennell 1065. 



Tolima. San Lorenzo (swale west of S. L., alt. 600-800 m.), 

 Pennell 3544. 



4. Monocardia albida Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stems not fleshy, .3-1.5 dm. long, glabrous. Leav^es ovate- 

 oblong, .7-1.5 cm. long, .3-1 cm. wide, obtuse, glabrous. Pedicels 

 7-14 mm. long, glabrous. Sepals glabrous: the three outer 4-5 mm, 

 long. Corolla 3-3.5 mm. long, dull white throughout. Filaments 

 and anthers white. Capsule 2-3 mm. long, narrowly elliptic-oblong. 

 Seeds .2-.3 mm. long, blackish. 



Type, wet loam, trail in forest, Villavicencio, Meta, alt. 450 

 meters, collected in flower and fruit August 28, 1919, F. W. Pennell 

 1477; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Wet loam in forest at altitudes of 450 to 500 meters, Tropical 

 zone, in Meta. 



Meta. Villavicencio (wet trail in forest, alt. 450' m.), Pennell 

 1477, (moist meadow near Rio Guatiquia, alt. 50G m.), Pennell 

 1555 (plant much smaller than 1477). 



7. MACUILLAMIA Raflnesque. 



MacuillamiaRaf. [>^eogenyton 2.1S2.5, generic description only.] Autik. Bot. 

 44, 1840. 



Type species, Monniera rctundifolia Mich., of Illinois. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



1. Macuillamia limosa Pennell, sp. no v. 



Extensively repent. Stem slightly succulent, finely pubescent 

 rather densely so distally. Leaves 1.2-1.7 cm. long, 8-10 mm. wide 

 obovate-elliptic, entire, narrowed at base, rounded at apex, with 

 7 or 9 longitudinal veins. Pedicels slender, 10 15 mm. long, finely 

 pubescent, in flower ascending, soon reflexing below the leaf-like 

 bracts. Sepals 2.5-3 mm. long, obtuse, somewhat pubescent; two 

 outer ovate-oblong; two median lanceolate-oblong; the innermost 

 one narrower or wanting. Corolla 4 mm. long, the lobes spreading, 

 slightly longer than the tube, the two posterior united to apex; 

 glabrous throughout, white. Filaments white. Anthers purplish. 

 Styles distinct near apex; stigmas semi -capitate. Capsule 2-2.5 

 mm. long, nearly globose, ol)tuse. Seeds .6 mm. long, cylindric- 

 oblong, reticulate, brown. 



Type, open pool in clayey loam, Melgar, Cundinamarca, altitude 

 400-500 meters, collected in flower and fruit December 4-5, 1917, 

 F. W. Pennell 2927; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Open pools and ditches, in shallow still water, at altitudes below 

 500 meters. Tropical zone, in the Magdalena and Cauca valleys, 

 and doubtless through northern Colombia. Ranges northward to 

 Mexico. 



Antioquia. Puerto Berrio (shallow water, alt. 125-135 m.), 

 Rusby & Pennell 32. 



Cundinamarca. Melgar (pool in clayey loam, alt. 400-500 m.), 

 Pennell 2927. 



Tolima. Espinal to Cuamo (ditch, loam, alt, 350-400 m.), Rusby 

 & Pennell 179. 



Valle. La Paila, L F. Holton 581 (H, Y). 



8. HYDRANTHELroM Humboldt, Bonpland and Kunth. 

 Hydranthelium H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 7: 202. pi. 646. 1825. 



Type species, H. calUtrichoides H. B. K., of Venezuela. 



1. Hydranthelium braunii Ernst. 



H ydrantheUum hraunii Ernst, in Vargasia 1 : 189. 1870. 

 "Halle el 19 de Setiembre de 1869 en uno de los pozos de la sabana delante 

 el camposanto de la Merced [Caracas]," Venezuela. 



Open wet soil, at an altitude of 30 meters. Tropical zone, in Mag- 

 dalena; doubtless eastward near the Caribbean coast through \'ene- 

 zuela. 



Magdalena. El Libano plantation, (Santa Marta region, open 

 land on border of swamp and flooded during heavy rains, alt. 30 m,), 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 159 



H. H. Smith 2544 (C, H, U, Y). (Plants small, largest .8 dm. 

 long, and in flower only, youngest leaves slightly unduiate-lobed.) 



9. SCOP ARIA Linne. 

 Scoparia L., Sp. PI. 116. 1753. 



Type species, S. dulcis L. 



1. Scoparia dulcis L. 



Scoparia dulcis L., 1. c. 116. 1753. "Habitat in Jamaica, Curassao"; 

 ex L., Hort. Cliff. 320. 1737. "Crescit in Curassao & Jamaica." No 

 specimens from Curagao seen but the plant here considered unquestion- 

 ably occurs there. 



Capraria dulcis (L.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 459. 1891. 



Open soil, loam or sand, river-banks, fields, along trails and in 

 towns, at altitudes below 1500 meters, Tropical zone, doubtless 

 throughout lowland Colombia. Ranges throughout Tropical Amer- 

 ica, a weed of South American origin. 



Antioquia. Vuelta de Acuna on Rio Magdalena (sandy loam 

 shore, alt. 125-130 m.), Pennell 3790. 



Bolivar. Boca Verde on Rio Sinu (cacaotale, alt. 90-120 m.), 

 Pennell 4233; Buenavista, east of Since (open grassy place), Pennell 

 399-1; Calamar (along Rio Magdalena, alt. 15-25 m.), Rusby & 

 Pennell 17; Vilches on Rio Sinu (loam, alt. 20-50 m.), Pennell 4713. 



Cundinamarca. Girardot (field, alt. 350-400 m.), Rusby & Pen- 

 nell 113'; Pandi (open slope, alt. 900-1100 m.), Pennell 2816. 



Huila. Cordillera Oriental, east of Neiva (open foot-hill, alt. 

 700-1500 m.), Rusby & Pennell 460. 



Magdalena. Bonda (alt. 45 m., common weed in open places 

 below 900 m.), H. H. Smith 1330 (C, H, U, Y). 



Meta. Villavicencio (streets, alt. 525 m.), Pennell 1372, (road- 

 side, alt. 500 m.), Pennell 1572. 



Tolima. Libano (field, alt. 700-900 m.), Pennell 3426. 



Valle. La Paila, I. F. Holton 587 (Y). 



10. STEMODIA Linne. 



Type species, S. maritima L., of Jamaica. 



Stemodia L., Syst. Nat. ed. X, 1118. 1759. 

 1. Stemodia durantifolia (L.) Sw. 



Capraria duranlifolia L., Syst. Nat. ed. X. 1116. 1759. ". . . Sloan. 



Jam. t. 174." Ex Sloane, Jam. 196. pi. 124. f. 2: "Grows in the sandy 



savannas [of Jamaica]." 

 Stemodia durantifolia (L.) Sw., Obs. Bot. 240. 1791. 

 Stemodacra durantifolia (L.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 466. 1891. 



Occurs in two color-forms, blue, and lavender or ''pale-pink." 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



River-flats and moist, or frequently desiccated, ditches, in open 

 land, at altitudes below 500 meters. Tropical zone, near the Carib- 

 bean Coast, along the Rio Magdalena and on the Sabana of Bolivar. 

 Ranges from Mexico to Brazil and in the West Indies. 



Antioquia. Brazue'a de Perales (river flat along Rio Magda- 

 lena, alt. 150 m.), Pennell 3698 [corolla blue]. 



Bolivar. Cartagena (moist arroyo, 12 km. s. e. of C, alt. 50-100 

 m.), Pennell 4729 [corolla blue], (open ditch, 14 km. s. e. of C, alt. 

 50-100 m.), Pennell 4730 [corolla lavender]; Since (desiccated pool 

 in prairie, alt. 120-170 m.), Pennell 4047 [corolla lavender]. 



Huila. Quei^rada de Angeles, above Natagaima (alt. 450-500 

 m.), Rusby & Pennell 263 [corolla blue]. 



Magdalena. Carpentiera (along Rio Magdalena, alt. 50-60 m.), 

 Rusby & Pennell 28; Mamatoca (open boggy ground, 5 m. s. of M., 

 alt. 30 m.), H. H. Smith 1360 (C, H, U, Y) [corolla pale pink], 



11. UNANUEA (Rxiiz and Pavon.) gen. nov. 

 Unanuea R. & P., (Ic. Fl. Per. Ined.), 



Erect, much-branhed shrubby herbs or low shrubs, at least 8-10 

 dm. tall. Stems 4-angled. Leaves mostly whorled in threes, 

 lanceolate to ovate, acute to acuminate, serrate to dentate, shortly 

 petioled. Pedicels axillary, slender, as long as or longer than the 

 calyces, not bracteolate. Sepals five, uniform, linear to lanceolate, 

 entire. Corolla 9-13 mm. long, tubular-campanulate with spread- 

 ing lobes, the posterior united three -fourths length; externally 

 • puberulent, within glabrous, purple-blue. Stamens four, didy- 

 namous (the posterior filaments shorter), glabrous, anthers-sacs 

 elliptic, each stalked on a short arm of the connective. Style gla- 

 brous. Stigmas distinct, flattened. Capsule brown, ovate in out- 

 line, acuminate, dehiscent septicidally (even through septum) and 

 slightly also loculicidally; placentae adherent to septum, roughened 

 by funicles. Seeds oblong, minutely roughened-tubercular. 



Differs from Stemodia L., which has corolla-lobes not widely 

 spreading, pubescent or glabrous within on the anterior side, two 

 bracteoles on the pedicel beneath the calyx, and the leaves sessile 

 and clasping; from Lendnena Minod, which are herbs low and 

 spreading, with smaller corollas densely pubescent within over the 

 bases of the posterior lobes and with evidently petioled leaves. 

 Both Stemodia and Lendneria are genera of the Tropical life-zone, 

 while Unmiuea is of the Subtropical and Temperate zones. 



Type species, Stetnodia suffruticosa H. B. K., of Ecuador. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



1. Unanuea dentata (Minod) Peimell.comb. nov. 



Stemodia suffndicosa H. B. K., f. dentata Minod in Bull. Soc. Bot. Geneve 

 ser. II. 10: 201. 1918. "In Andibus Ecuadorensibus (R. Spruce, n. 

 5066!)." Isotype seen in Gray Herbarium of Harvard University. 



At an attitude of 2600 meters, Temperate zone, southern Cor- 

 dillera Central southward into Ecuador. 



Cauca. Mozoco, Moras Valley, Tierra Adentro (alt. 2600 m.), 

 H. Pittier 1326 (U). [''A shrub, 1 m. high; fl. deep purple."] 



12. LENDNERIA Minod. 

 Lendneria Minod, in Bull. Soc. Bot. Geneve, ser. II. 10: 240. 1918. 



Type species, Capraria humihs Soland. 



Pedicels 1-2 mm. long. Corolla 4 mm. long, its lobes blue, the 

 posterior united two-thirds length. Hairs within corolla over 

 base of posterior lobes not knobbed. Anther-sacs circular, 

 slightly separated on very short connective -arms. Capsule 

 globose, 2 mm. long, much shorter than the sepals. Seeds 

 pale yellowish, nearly cyhndric. 1. L. humilis. 



Pedicels longer, mostly 7-20 mm. long. Corolla 8 mm. long, its 

 lobes white, the posterior united nearly to apex. Hairs within 

 corolla over base of posterior lobes knobbed. Anther-sacs 

 oblong, distinctly separated on stout connective-arms. Cap- 

 sule in outline oblong-ovate, 4-5 mm. long, about equaling the 

 sepals. Seeds brown-black, nearly oblong. 2. L. angulata. 



1. Lendneria humilis (Soland.) Minod. 



Capraria humilis [Soland. in] Ait., Hort. Kew. 2: 3-54. 1789. "Nat. of 

 the East Indies. John Gerard Koenig, M.D. Introd. 1781, by Sir 

 Joseph Banks, Bart." Identified by Bentham in DC. Prod. 10: 383. 

 1846, as species here considered, his determination with an "!" Our 

 plant has been occasionally reported as an introduction into the Old 

 World Tropics. 



Stemodia parviflora Ait., Hort. Kew., ed. II. 4: 52. 1812. "Nat. of South 

 America. Cult. 1759 by Mr. Ph. Miller." Miller's plant was derived 

 from Houston who collected at Cartagena in Colombia as well as in 

 Mexico and the West Indies. The original introduction of Houston, 

 published as Erinus verticillatus Mill., Gard. Diet. n. 5. 1768, differs 

 so essentially from the account of Alton's plant, especially in denoting 

 a plant with glabrous stems and leaves, as to lead to the supposition that 

 the latter was described from specimens of a different origin. 



Stemodia arenaria H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 357. pi. 175. 1818. "Cres- 

 cit in ripa inundata fluminis Magdalenae prope Banco et El Peiion inter 

 Mompox et Morales." 



Lendneria humilis (Solander) Minod in Bull. Soc. Bot. Geneve, ser. II. 10: 

 240. 1918. 



Corolla-tube yellowish, lobes blue-violet, tube and lobes, es- 

 pecially on the posterior side, with deep violet lines. Seen also 

 (Pennell 4709) with corolla very pale, a distinct color-form. 



Moist soil, river-banks and waste-land, frequently a weed near 

 habitations, at altitudes below 200 meters. Tropical zone, along the 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Rio Sinu in Bolivar, the Rio Cauca in Valle, and the Rio Don Diego 

 in Magdalena; doubtless wide-spread elsewhere. Ranges from 

 Mexico to Argentina and in the West Indies. 



Bolivar. Boca Verde, on Rio Sinu (gravelly river-bank, alt. 

 90-120 m.), Pennell 4197, (field along river, alt. 100-200 m.), Pennell 

 4567; Frasquillo, on Rio Sinu (grove along river in village, alt. 

 90-120 m.), Pennell 4610; Vilches, on Rio Sinu (shaded yard, alt. 

 20-50 m.), Pennell 4708 [corolla blue], 4709 [corolla pale-blue], 

 4710 [corolla intermediate in color between 4708 and 4709]. 



Magdalena. Open sandy ground by the Rio Don Diego, near the 

 sea, H. H. Smith 2730 (Y). 



Valle. La Paila, I. F. Holton 580 (H, Y). 



2. Lendneria angulata (Oersted) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Sleniodia angulata Oersted in Kjoeb. Vidensk. Meddel. 1853: 22. 1853. 

 "I Naerheden af Cartago i Costa-Rica." 



Certainly distinct from Stemodia joruUensis H, B. K., Nov. Gen. 

 et Sp. 2: 358. 1818, which is described as 1-1| feet tall and with 

 leaves in threes, incised or doubly serrate. 



Moist soil in shade, river-banks and waste land, at altitudes 

 below 600 meters, Tropical zone, along the Rio Sinu in Bolivar, 

 and in Magdalena; doubtless wide-spread in northern Colombia. 

 Ranges northward to Guatemala. 



Bolivar. Frasquillo, on Rio Sinu (shady soil along river, alt. 

 70-100 m.), Pennell 4192. 



Magdalena. Minca (damp door-yard, in crevices of bricks, alt. 

 600 m.), H. H. Smith 1328 (C, H, U, Y). 



13. VANDELLIA Browne. 

 Vandellia Browne; L., Mant. PI. 1: 12, 89. 1767. 

 Type species, V. diffusa L. 



1. Vandellia diffusa L. 



Vandellia diffusa L., Mant. PL 1 : 89. 1767. "Habitat in Insula S. Thomae. 

 D. D. Browne." Description inaccurate in describing the calyx as quad- 

 ripartite (but with upper lobe subbifid), its lobes equal, the lower lip of 

 corolla as bilobed, and the capsules as one-celled, but is nevertheless 

 certified by Bentham, DC. Prod. 10: 416. 1846 as being the plant here 

 considered. 



Linderriia diffusa (L.) Wettst. in Nat. Pflanzenfam. 43b: 79. 1S91. 



Pyxidaria diffusa (L.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen.: 464. 1891. 



Moist open soil, along trails and in towns, at altitudes beiow 

 1500 meters. Tropical zone; widely distributed through tropical 

 America, in situations to suggest its having been naturalized. Ap- 




1920.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



parently introduced from the Ethiopian Region of the Old World 

 Tropics. 



Cundinamarca. Icononzo (along trail in forest, alt. 1400-1800 

 m.), Pennell2871. 



Magdalena. River Don Diego (open sandy wet ground near sea, 

 alt. 0-10 m.), H. H. Smith 2729 (H, Y). 



Meta. Villavicencio (moist depression in llano, e. of, alt. 450 

 m.), Pennell 1466; (streets of town, alt. 525 m.), Pennell 1575, 

 (gravel along Rio Guatiquia, alt. 500 m.), Pennell 1590. 



Tolima. Mariquita (prairie, depression, alt. 250-300 m.), Pen- 

 nell 3639. 



14. TORENIA Linne. 

 Torenia L., Sp. PI. G19. 1753. 

 Type species, T. asiatica L., of India. 



Bracts leaf-like, the upper smaller; inflorescence an elongate raceme. 

 Pedicels 20-25 mm. long. Sepals 4-5 mm. long. Corolla 5-7 

 mm. long, its posterior lobes united f f length and equaling 

 the anterior; anterior lobes widely horizontally spreading; 

 .within glabrous, blue on posterior lobes and distally on anterior 

 lobes, these yellowish-white proximally with an arch of d^eep- 

 violet at the base of the anterior lobes. Capsule 3-4 mm. long, 

 obtuse and mucronate. Leaves ovate, 1-1.5 cm. long. Plant 

 repent-ascending. 1. T. Crustacea. 



Bracts minute, subulate; inflorescence congested at the nodes. 

 Pedicels 10-15 mm. long. Sepals 9-11 mm. long. Corolla 

 8-9 mm. long, its posterior lobes united nearly to apex and 

 shorter than the anterior lobes; antero-lateral lobes placed 

 sagitally, the anterior lobe horizontal and longest; within 

 pubescent over bases of anterior lobes, white or on anterior 

 side somewhat blue-violet. Capsule 8-10 mm. long, acute. 

 Leaves lanceolate-ovate, 1.2-2.5 cm. long. Plant ascending- 

 erect. 

 Corolla on anterior lobe blue-violet, and on antero-laterals with 

 blue-violet streaks. Leaves dentate. 2. T. thouarsii. 

 ' Corolla white throughout. Leaves crenate -serrate. 



2a. T. thouarsii nivea. 



1. Torenia Crustacea (L.) Cham. & Schlecht. 



Capraria Crustacea L., Mant. 87. 1767. "Habitat in Amboina; China." 

 Amboina plant, described by Rumphius, Herb. Amb. 5: 461. pi. 170 f. 3, 

 verified by Dr. E. D. Merrill, Interp. Rumph. Herb. Amb. 468, as the 

 plant here considered. 



Torenia Crustacea (L.) C. & S. in Linnaea 2: .570. 1827. 



Vandellia Crustacea (L.) Benth., Scroph. Ind. 35. 1835. 



Lindernia Crustacea (L.) F. Muell., Census 97. 1882. 



Pyxidaria Crustacea (L.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 2: 464. 1891. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Moist open soil, along trails and in towns, at altitudes of 500 to 

 600 meters, Tropical zone; introduced from Oriental Region of 

 Old World Tropics. 



Cundinamarca. Melgar (moist loam, open slope, along trail, 

 alt. 500-600 m.), Pennell 2878, 2879 [form smaller throughout]. 



Meta. Villavicencio (streets and yards, alt. 525 m.), Pennell 

 1527. 



2, Torenia thouarsii (Cham. & Schlecht.) Kiintze. 



Nortenia thouarsii Cham. & Schlecht. in Linnaea 3 : 18. 1828. "In Brasiliae 

 provincia Rio Janeiro in uliginosis post Botafoginam . . . legit Bey- 

 rich, in insulis Madagascaria et Mauritii Depetit Thouars. . . . 

 Willd. Hb. n. 11,547 (planta madagascariensis a Thouarsii comm.)." 



Torenia nortenia Steud., Nom., ed. II. 2: 692. 1841. 



Torenia thouarsii (Cham, (fe Schlecht.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 468. 1891. 



This has usually been known as Torenia parviflora Ham. 



Moist banks, in edge of forest, at an altitude of 500 meters. Trop- 

 ical zone; wide-spread through lowland tropical South America, 

 growing as if a native plant. However, as this American plant ap- 

 pears to be indistinguishable from the plant of the Old World, and 

 the remaining species of the genus are all Palaetropic it appears 

 nearly' certain that our plant is an introduction. From the Ethi- 

 opian and Oriental regions of the Old World Tropics. 



Meta. Villavicencio (moist shaded bank near Rio Guatiquia, 

 alt. 500 .m.), Pennell 1528, (moist meadow and swamp in foi-est, 

 near Rio Guatiquia, alt. 500 m.), Pennell 1560, 



2a. Torenia thouarsii nivea Pennell, var. nov. 



Leaves smaller, 1.2-1.5 cm. long, crenate-serrate, rather than 

 dentate. Corolla white throughout. Probably a color-form iden- 

 tical with plants of the Old World Tropics and introduced there- 

 from. 



Type, wet sand along Rio Guatiquia, altitude 500 meters, col- 

 lected in flower and fruit August 30, 1917, F. W. Pennell 1531; in 

 herbarium New York Botanical Garden. 



15. ILYSANTHES Raflnesqiie. 

 Ilysanthes Raf., Ann. Nat. 13. 1820. 

 Type species, I. riparia Raf., of the Ohio. 



1. Ilysanthes inae quails (Walt.) Pennell. 



Gratiola inaequalis Walt., Fl. Carol. 61. 1788. [South CaroHna.] 

 Ilysanthes inaequalis (Walt.) Pennell in Torreya 19: 149. 1919. 



Wet soil near streams, at an altitude little above sea -level. Trop- 

 ical zone, in Magdalena. Probably wide-spread, and also in the 




1920.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Subtropical and Temperate zones. Through lowland South Amer- 

 ica south to Paraguay; ranges northward into Temperate North 

 America. 



Magdalena. Rio Buritaca (observed only in a swampy place, 

 bank of R. B., close to the sea — 50 m. e. of Santa Marta), H. H. 

 Smith 1329 (C, H, U, Y). 



16. SCHISTOPHRAGMA Bentham. 



Schistophragma Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 392. 1846 

 Type species, S. pusilla Benth. 



1. Schistophragma pusilla Benth. 



Schistophragma pusilla Benth. in DC. Prod. 10; 392. 1846. "In Mexico 

 pr. Tehuantepec (Alaman!) ... (v. s. comm. a. cl. DC.)." De- 

 scription from a dwarf plant, which explains the variety following. 



Schistophragma pusilla major Benth., 1. c. 392. 1846. "In campis aridis 

 pr. Sta Martha fPurdie!) ... (v. in herb. Hook.)." 



Conobea pusilla (Benth.) B. & H., Gen. 2: 951. 1876. 



Open drj^, stony soil, at altitudes below 300 meters, Tropical 

 zone, in Magdalena, and doubtless spread across northern Colombia. 

 Ranges northward to Mexico. 



Magdalena. Bonda (alt. 60 m.), H. H. Smith 1970 (C, H, U, Y). 



["Rare on open, stony and dry ground, hillsides or banks below 

 1000 f."] 



17. MIMULUS Lmne. 

 Mimulus L., Sp. PI. 634. 1753. 

 Type species, M. ringens L., of Virginia. 



1. Mimulus glabratus H. B. K. 



Mimulus glabratus H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 370. 1818. "Crescit 

 prope Moran Mexicanorum, alt. 1330 hex. [ = 2527 m.]. Varies, even 

 in same colony, with leaves obviously petioled or nearly sessile, and 

 with all parts of the plant, including the flower, relatively large or rela- 

 tively small. The latter state is doubtless the basis of M. andicola H. 

 B. K. from Ecuador. 



Corolla lemon-yellow, within throat on anterior side golden and 

 spotted with many red-brown spots. 



Along streams, springheads, swales and brooks, at altitudes of 

 2300 to 3200 meters, Temperate zone, ascending as a dwarfed plant 

 to Paramo, and descending rarely into the Subtropical zone, both 

 slopes of Cordillera Oriental, in Cundinamarca. Doubtless through- 

 out this and the other Cordilleras. Ranges through the Andes 

 southward to Bolivia and with many breaks, through the mountains 

 of Central America and Mexico, northward to Colorado and the 

 plains of North Dakota. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Cundinamarca. Bogota (ditch in field near Rio San Cristobal, 

 alt. 2800 m.), Pennell 2194, 2279, (wet open spring-head, alt. 2700- 

 2800 m.), Pennell 2296; Chipaque (wet roadside, alt. 2300-2400 

 m.), Pennell 1326; Sibate (wet roadside, alt. 2620 m.), Pennell 2387; 

 Zipaquira (springhead in meadow, alt. 2650 m.), Pennell 2533; Mt. 

 Chuscal, west of Zipaquira (swale on paramo, alt. 3100-3200 m.), 

 Pennell 2600; Guasca (alt. 2700 m.), Triana. 



18. LEUCOCARPUS D. Don. 

 Leucocarpus D. Don in Sweet. Brit. Flow. Gard. II. pi. 124. 1831. 

 Type species, Conobea alata Graham, of Mexico. 



1. Leucocarpus perfoliatus (H. B. K.) Benth. 



Mimvlus perfoliatus H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 371. 1818. "Crescit 

 in Regno Novo-Granatensi. ... A Mutisio cum Bonplandio com- 

 municatus." Described as with leaves connate, but this appearance has 

 misled subsequent workers, including Bentham in his characterization 

 of Leucocarpus. The plant actuallv has opposite cordate-clasping leaves. 



Leucocarpus perfoliatus (H. B. K.) Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 335. 1846. 



This species has usually been called L. alaius (Graham) D. Don, 

 based upon Conobea alata Graham (1830) of Mexico, a plant more 

 carefully described and under an appropriate name. The character 

 of length of calyx-lobes, used by Bentham, is of no significance, 

 the lobes varying in the same specimens and usually seeming rela- 

 tively longer when in the bud. 



Corolla yellow throughout, with two pubescent ridges within 

 throat anteriorly. Plant shrubby below, from a perennial root 

 sending up a clump of many long densely floriferous stems. Fruit 

 fleshy, chalky-white. 



Along stream banks in forest, at altitudes of 1350 to 2000 meters, 

 probably from all slopes of the Cordilleras and also on the Sierra 

 Nevada de Santa Marta. Subtropical zone. Ranges from Mexico 

 to Bolivia. The seeds are doubtless carried by birds. 



Huila. Cordillera Oriental, east of Neiva (along rocky stream in 

 forest, alt. 1500-2000 m.), Rusby & Pennell 600. 



Magdalena. Las Nubes (damp clearing near stream, alt. 1350 m.), 

 H. H. Smith 1405 (C, H, U, Y). 



Tolima (?). "Forets de Quindio" (2200 m.), J. Triana (U). 



Valle. Jicaramata, "circum flumen Toluam'', I. F. Holton 578. 



19. ALONSOA Riiiz and Pavon. 



Alonsoa R. & P., Syst. Veg. Fl. Peruv. et Chil. 1.50. 1798. 



Type species, A. caulialata R. & P., of Peru. 



Leaves coarsely serrate or dentate, the largest 5-6 cm. long. Cor- 

 olla 10 mm. long. Filaments thick. Anthers infundibuliform- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



explanate. Capsule 9-10 mm. lono;, narrowly ovoid, con- 

 spicuously attenuate. Seeds black, the furrows nearly as wide 

 as the intervening ridges. Stem above, pedicels and calyces 

 usually glabrous, rarely somewhat glandular-pubescent. 



1. A. meridionalis. 

 Leaves uniformly serrate, the largest 8-9 cm. long. Corolla 5-6 



mm. long. Filaments thin. Anthers widely and flatly ex- 

 planate. Capsule 6 mm. long, pyramidal, shortly attenuate. 

 Seeds dark -brown, the furrows much narrower than the inter- 

 vening ridges. Stem above, pedicels and calyces glandular- 

 pubescent, densely pubescent at the bases of the petioles. 



2. A. serrata. 



1. Alonsoa meridionalis (L. f.) Kuntze. 



Scrophularia meridionalis L. f., Suppl. 280. 1781. "Habitat in Nova 



Granada. D. Mutis." Tj^pe probably from Bogota. 

 Hemimeris mulisii H. B. K., Xov. Gen. et Sp. 2: -376. 1817. ''Crescit 



prope Santa Fe de Bogota [Humboldt & Bonpland]." 

 Alonsoa mutisii (H. B. K.) G. Don, Gen. Syst. 4: .518. 1838. 

 Alonsoa. meridionalis (L. f.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 2: 457. 1891. The plant 



of Venezuela noted by Kuntze, and described as so variable in color, is 



A. -parvi flora (H. B. K.) G. Don. 



Corolla uniformly dull-orange. Filaments dull-yellow\ Anthers 

 yellow. 



Waysides and grassy slopes, around the margins of the Sabana 

 of Bogota, on the western slope of the Cordillera Oriental; at alti- 

 tudes of 2600 to 2900 meters. Temperate zone. 



Cundinamarca. Zipaquira, Pennell 2564 (Y); Bogota, Holton 

 (Y), Pennell 1309 (Y), Pennell 2099 (Y), Pennell 2332 (Y); (Plateau 

 de Bogota), J. Triana (Y); El Penon, s. w. of Sibate, Pennell 2410 

 (Y), [pedicels unusually glandular-pubescent]. 



2. Alonsoa serrata Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem 6 dm. tall, four-angled, angles slightly winged, stem glabrous 

 below, glandular pubescent above. Leaves opposite, 8-9 cm. long, 

 the blades ovate, uniformly serrate, slightly paler beneath, glabrous, 

 on petioles .less than one-half length of blade. Racemes indefinite, 

 teiminal on the stem and branches; bracts sessile, the lowermost 

 ovate and somewhat serrate, nearly 2 cm. long, the upper lanceolate, 

 smaller. Pedicels spreading, 10-11 mm. long, glanduiar-putiescent. 

 Sepals oblong-lanceolate, acute, glandular-pubescent, 3-4 mm. long, 

 Corolla 5-6 mm. long. Filaments slender. Anthers widely ex- 

 planate. Style 2-2.5 mm. long. Stigma capitate. Capsule 6 mm. 

 long, pyramidal, slightly attenuate to an obtuse apex, glabrous. 

 Seeds .8-.9 mm. long, cylindric, dark-brown, with about 8 rounded 

 longitudinal ridges separated by deep narrow furrows; the whole 

 surface finely alveolate-reticulate. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Type, Santa Marta Mountains, collected in flower and fruit about 

 April, 1899, H. H. Smith 1497; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 

 The note for 1497 is stated by Smith to have been lost, but he tells 

 us that the plant is ''probably from Valparaiso, 4500 ft. [ = 1350 m.] " 

 altitude. I suspect that this plant came from much higher than 

 this. 



Rusby has compared this with Purdie's plant from Santa Marta 

 and has written on our sheet "Purdie's plants are more hairy than 

 this," an excellent confirmation of Purdie's specimens cited in DC. 

 Prod. 10. 250: being this same species. 



Magdalena. Valparaiso, Santa Marta Mts., H. H. Smith 1497 (C, 

 H, U, Y). 



20. FAGELIA Schwencke. 



Fagelia Schwencke, [in Verh. Bataafsh. Genootsch. Rotterdam 1: 474. pi. 13. 



1774, generic diagnosis only]; J. F. Gmel., Syst. Nat. 40. 1791. 

 Calceolaria L., in Kongl. Vetensk. Acad. Handl. 31: 288, 1770, not Calceolaria 



Fabr., Enum. Meth. PI. Host. Med. Helmstad. ed. II. 37. 1763, 



Type species, F. flavicans J. F. Gmel., probably from Ecuador. 



Anther-sacs proximate on the simple filament, both alike and fertile. 



Anterior lip of corolla ( = sac) not over twice width of posterior 



• lip ( = hood). Leaves entire to coarsely serrate-dentate, the 



blades at times triangular. [CHEiLONCOfi Kranzl.] 

 Capsule ovate or broader, no longer than broad, thick-walled, 

 shorter than or but slightly exceeding the sepals. Corolla 

 8-25 mm. long, with the posterior lip broadly truncate to 

 notched. Filaments stout, not or but little longer than the 

 oblong anthers. Inflorescence corymb-like, both secondary 

 branches developed, and at least some of the lateral flowers 

 without bracts. 

 Shrubs. Glutinous above, on stems, pedicels, sepals and leaves. 

 Leaf-blades lanceolate, entire to slightly serrate, shortly 

 petiolate. Corolla appearing l^roader than long because 

 the sac is pressed tightly against hood; orifices to lips broad 

 and rounded, so sac is shallow. 

 Calyx 4-6 mm. long. Leaves glaucous beneath. Plant less 

 glutinous. Branches of the inflorescence once branched, 

 so that flowers occur in fours. 1. F. microbefaria. 



Calyx 2-3 mm. long. Leaves slightly paler beneath. Plants 

 very glutinous. Branches of the inflorescence irregularly 

 twice branched, so that flowers occur usually in clusters 

 of more than four. 2. F. fruticosa. 



Herbaceous throughout. Not glutinous, but often with stalked 

 glands. Leaf-blades lanceolate to broadly triangular, ser- 

 rate to doubly dentate. Corolla evidently elongated sagit- 

 tally, with sac usually not pressed against hood and so 




1920.] .NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



with its orifice evident; orifice to hood narrow, or trun- 

 cate; to sac truncate, with sac deep. 

 Caljoc 4-5 mm. long, shorter than or about equaUng the 

 capsule. Leaves sessile. Stem densely glandular-pubes- 

 cent. 

 Leaves narrowed at base, elliptic-lanceolate, dentate, on 

 both surfaces densely ferruginous-pubescent with dark- 

 jointed hairs. Stem below densely, above sparsely 

 pubescent. Inflorescence of a few wide-spreading 

 branches. Corolla 8 10 mm. long. Anthers about 

 1.5 mm. long. 3. F. lehmanniana. 



Leaves rounded-clasping at base, lanceolate, crenate-serrate 

 (ijvith spinulose serrations), above glabrate, beneath 

 paler and finely pubescent. Stem below apparently 

 glabrate, above pubescent with .short gland-tipped 

 hairs. Corolla about 12-15 mm. long. Anthers about 

 2.5 mm. long. 4. F. crenata. 



Calyx 7-12 mm. long, longer than the capsule. Leaves 

 petioled, petiole at times broadly winged. 

 Anther-sacs stiffly divaricate (so anthers straight), open- 

 ing throughout or from distal apices. Capsule with 

 gland-tipped hairs. Corolla slightly pubescent within 

 at base. Style 1.5-4 mm. long. Wing of petiole less 

 than one-third width of blade or wanting. 

 Leaves 3-5 mm. long, the petioles wingless. 



Stem pubescent throughout with glandless hairs. 

 Calyx-lobes obtuse to acute. Corolla 15-20 

 mm. long. Style 1.5 mm. long. Leaves 3-4 cm. 

 long, obtuse to acutish, simply or somewhat 

 doubly crenate-serrate, beneath pale and densely 

 pubescent. Secondary branches of the inflores- 

 cence not or scarcely branched. 



5. F. saxatilis. 

 Stem pubescent distally with gland-tipped hairs. 



Calyx -lobes acuminate. Corolla about 10 mm. 

 long. Style 3 mm. long. Leaves 4-5 cm. long, 

 acuminate, irregularly somewhat doubly serrate 

 with acute teeth, beneath lighter green and some- 

 what pubescent. Secondary branches of the in- 

 florescence repeatedly branched, 



6. F. hogotensis. 

 Leaves 11-17 cm. long, the petioles winged proximally 



or throughout, the wing connate with that of oppo- 

 site leaf. 

 Petioles broadly winged proximally, distally very nar- 

 rowly margined; leaf -blades broader than long, 

 irregularly shallowly crenate-dentate. Corolla 

 with posterior lobes not united to apex, so leaving 

 a deep narrow orifice into hood. Anther-sacs 

 broadly contiguous. 7. F. trilohata. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct. 



Petioles nearly uniformly winged throughout; leaf- 

 blades longer than broad, sharply doubly serrate- 

 dentate. Corolla with posterior lobes united 

 nearly or quite to apex, so leaving slight if any 

 median orifice into hood. Anther-sacs narrowly 

 contiguous. 

 Corolla 8-10 mm. long; hood with slight median 

 orifice. Anthers 2 mm. long, the sacs opening 

 throughout. Style 1.5-1.8 mm. long. Capsule 

 3-4 mm. long. Winged petiole usually 12-18 

 mm. wide, and somewhat dentate. Plant pu- 

 bescent above with some gland-tipped hairs. 



8. F. alata. 

 Corolla 13-15 mm. long; hood truncate, without 

 apical median orifice. Anthers 3.5 mm. long, 

 the sacs opening from distal apex but not 

 throughout. Style 4 mm. long. Capsule 5-6 

 mm. long. Winged petiole 8-13 mm. wide, 

 entire. Plant pubescent throughout with gland- 

 less hairs. 9. F. nevadensis. 

 Anther-sacs curved (so anther horseshoe-shaped), opening 

 from proximal apices partially or throughout. Capsule 

 pubescent with glandless hairs. Corolla glabrous within 

 at base. Style 5 mm. long. Wing of petiole more than 

 one-third width of blade. 

 Leaves sharply dentate, above glabrate, beneath paler 

 and finely pubescent. Stem glabrate below, some- 

 what hirsute above. Calyx 8-10 mm. long. 



10. F. tolimensis. 

 Leaves obtusely dentate, above pubescent, beneath softly 



pubescent to tomentose. Stem hispid below, hirsute- 

 pubescent above. Calyx 9-11 mm. long. 



11. F. perfoliata. 

 Capsule narrowly pyramidal, longer than broad, thin-walled, 



nearly twice as long as the sepals. Corolla 5-6 mm. long, 

 nearly globose, with posterior lip attenuate to a shallowly 

 notched apex. Filaments slender, several times longer than 

 the hemispheric anthers. Inflorescence appearing as if with 

 flowers axillary, normally one secondary branch developing 

 repeatedl}^ through an indefinite number of nodes. 



12. F. ovata. 

 Anther-sacs separated on two arms of the connective (filament 



wanting or very short), dissimilar, the anterior tending to 

 become sterile. Anterior lip two to four times the width of the 

 posterior. Leaves pinnately lobed. [Aposecos Benth.] 

 Anterior anther-sac fertile, brown or yellowish. Style .6-. 8 mm. 



long. Calyx 3-5 mm. long. Pedicels and stems above 



pubescent with gland-tipped hairs. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Leaves 2-4 cm. long, the blades with one or two partial pairs of 

 segments, the sinuses of which are narrow and reach only 

 one-half to two-thirds the distance to the midrib. Calyx 

 3-4 mm. long. 13. F. micranthn. 



Leaves 2-10 cm. long, the blades with usually three pairs of 

 segments, the proximal sinuses of which are usually broad 

 and reach nearly to the midrib. Calyx 4-5 mm. long. 



14. F. radiculoides. 

 Anterior anther-sac sterile, yellow or orange-yellow. Style 1-2 

 mm. long. Calyx 5-9 mm. long. 

 Anterior anther-sac light-yellow. Corolla 5-7 mm. long. Leaf- 

 blades with shallow crenately-toothed lobes. Distally finely 

 pubescent with glandless hairs. 15. F. crenatiloha. 



Anterior anther-sac orange-yellow. Corolla 7-21 mm. long. 

 Leaf-blades with deep sharply serrate lobes. 

 Stems above and pedicels pubescent with few-celled gland- 

 tipped hairs. Blades of lowermost leaves with shallow 

 lobes. Base of petioles very narrowly connate. Calyx- 

 lobes slightly serrate, obviously ciliate with gland-tipped 

 hairs. Style 1-1.3 mm. long. Capsule pubescent with 

 short gland-tipped hairs. 16. F. chelidonioides. 



Stems above and pedicels hirsute with many-celled dark- 

 jointed hairs. Blades of all leaves pinnatisect nearly 

 to the midrib. Base of petioles ol^viously connate. 

 Calyx-lobes decidedly serrate, hirsute on the back and 

 margin. Style 1.8-2 mm. long. Capsule pubescent with 

 glandless (or in pimiatisectn with interspersed gland- 

 tipped) hairs. 

 Corolla 15-21 mm. long. Calyx-lobes ovate, acute. Cap- 

 sule 6 mm. long. Leaves 5-8 cm. long, 3-5 cm. wide. 



17. F. scalar is. 

 Corolla 8-10 mm. long. Calyx-lobes lanceolate or nar- 

 rowly ovate, acuminate. Capsule 4 mm. long. Leaves 

 3-5.5 cm. long, 2-3 cm. wide. 18. F. pinnatisecta. 



1. Fagelia microbefaria (Kranzl.) Peimell, comb. nov. 



Calceolaria microbefaria Kranzl, in Ann. k. k. Naturh. Hofm. Wien 22: 19.3. 

 1907. "Kolumbien, Ostkordilleren, Provinz Pamplona, zwischen Urban 

 unci Las Vetas in 330C m ii. d. M. (Linden Nr. 730!)." 



Stem 1-2 meters tall, much branched, woody, with grayish-brown 

 bark, the twigs reddish- or yellowish -brown, glutinous and finely 

 pubescent. Leaves 6-8 cm. long, the blades lanceolate, acuminate, 

 serrate to entire, at times slightly revolute, 12-17 mm. wide; each 

 narrowed to a petiole 5-10 mm. long; blades above green, pubescent 

 on the midrib or pulverulent or quite glabrous, beneath glaucous, 

 sparsely puberulent to glabrous, reticulate; somewhat glutinous on 

 upper surface. Corymb bractless, the secondary branches slightly 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



if at all branched, so that the inflorescence simulates a stalked four- 

 flowered umbel. Peduncle and pedicels somewhat glutinous and 

 pubescent with brown hairs. Calyx 4-6 mm. long, the lobes tri- 

 angular-ovate, obtusish to acute, entire, puberulent, glutinous. 

 Corolla: posterior lip 6-7 mm. long, 7-9 mm. wide, with broad 

 rounded orifice; anterior lip 12-13 mm. long, 8-10 mm. wide, with 

 rounded orifice opening into two-thirds or more of its length; sac 

 pressed against hood so that corolla appears broader than long; 

 externally finely puberulent, within glandular-pubescent proximally, 

 especially about bases of filaments. Filaments stout, less than 1 

 mm. long. Anther 2.5 mm. long, brown, the walls thin, the sacs 

 contiguous, opening throughout and eventually through the thin 

 connective. Style 3 mm. long. Capsule 5 mm. long, broadly ovate, 

 acute, puberulent. Seeds .4-.5 mm, long, oblong, obtuse, ridged, 

 red brown. 



Thickets, along streams and at edge of forest, also in thicket- 

 islands in Paramo, at altitudes of 2800 to 3300 meters; Temperate 

 zone of western slope of Cordillera Oriental, from Santander to 

 Cundinamarca. 



Cundinamarca. Rio Frio, west of Zipaquira (along stream- 

 banks), Pennell 2570, 2605; Mt. Chuscal, west of Zipaquira (thicket- 

 island in paramo), Pennell 2584; Sibate (bushy hillsides southwest 

 of), Pennell 2389. 



2. Fagelia fruticosa Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem 1-2 meters tall, much branched, woody, with grayish bark, 

 the twigs reddish and glutinous-puberulent or slightly pubescent. 

 Leaves 5-6 cm. long, the blades lanceolate, acuminate, slightly 

 serrulate to entire, at times slightly revolute, 12-13 mm. wide; 

 each narrowed to a petiole 4-7 mm. long; blades above dark-green 

 and puberulent, beneath paler and reticulate, on both surfaces 

 strongly glutinous. Corymb bractless, the secondary branches soon 

 branching so as to simulate an umbel. Peduncle and pedicels 

 glutinous and somewhat pubescent with brown hairs. Calyx 2-3 

 mm. long, the lobes broadly ovate, acute, entire, puberulent, glutin- 

 ous. Corolla: posterior lip 6-7 mm. long, 7-8 mm. wide, with broad 

 rounded orifice; the anterior lip 12-13 mm. long, 8-9 mm. wide, 

 with rounded orifice opening into two- thirds or more of its length; 

 sac pressed against hood so that corolla appears broader than long; 

 externally finely puberulent, within pubescent proximally, especially 

 near the filaments. Filaments stout, less than 1 mm. long. An- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



thers nearly 2 mm. long, brown, the walls thin, the sacs contiguous, 

 opening throughout and through connective. Style 3 mm. long. 

 Capsule 5 mm. long, broadly pyramidal, acute, glandular-puberu- 

 lent. Seeds. 



Plant more glutinous and drying blacker than Fagelia microhe- 

 faria. 



Type, forest at margin of Paramo de Ruiz, Tolima, altitude 3200- 

 3500 meters, collected in flower December 16, 1917, F. W. Pennell 

 2998; in Herb. New Yoi*k Botanical Garden. 



Shrub belt about and below paramo, Temperate zone, eastern 

 slope of the Cordillera Central, in Tolima. 



3. Fagelia lehmanniana (Kranzl.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Calceolaria lehmanniana Kranzl. in Fedde, Rep. Nov. Spec. 1: 100. 1905. 

 "Columbien: Dpto. Cauca; an feuchten Orten an den oberen Gehangen 

 des Vulcan de Sotara und auf dem Paramo de Barbillas in 3000 bis 3300 

 m ii. d. M. (F. C. Lehmann, no. 6134!)"; not C. lehmannii (Riavon) 

 Hieron. in Engl. Bot. Jahrb. 20. Beibl. 49: 57. 1894. 



At altitudes of 2800 to 3300 meters. Temperate Zone, southern 

 Cordillera Central, from Cauca to Pasto. 

 Pasto. Puruquai, J. Triana in 1851-7 (Y). 



4. fagelia crenata (Lam.) Kuntze. 



Calceolaria crenata Lam., Encyc. Meth., Bot. 1: 556. 1785. "Trouvee au 

 Perou par M. Joseph de Jussieu (v. s. in herb. Juss.)." .Jussieu collected 

 mainly in Ecuador. 



Fagelia crenata (Lam.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 495. 1891. 



At an altitude of 3000 meters, Temperate Zone, southern Cor- 

 dillera Central, from Pasto to Ecuador. 



Cauca. Valle de Quintero above Pitaio, R. Palo basin, Central 

 Cordillera, H. Pittier 1425 (U). 



Pasto. "Tuquerres et Puruquai," J. Triana in 1851-7. "Juda- 

 bolsa." 



5. Fagelia saxatilis (H. B. K.) Kimtze. 



Calceolaria saxatilis H. R. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 382. 1817. "Crescit 

 locis saxosis montis Chimborazo in summa planitie Sisgun, alt. 1750 

 hex. [ = 3325 meters] . . . [Humboldt & Bonpland]." 



Fagelia saxatilis (H. B. K.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 460. 1891. 



Stem about 1 meter tall, much branched, herbaceous, green or 

 reddish, pubescent with white hairs, densely so above. Leaves 3-4 

 cm. long, the blades ovate, cordate or truncate at base, obtuse, each 

 narrowed to a petiole 5-10 mm. long; blades above green, finely 

 pubescent, beneath pale and densely pubescent, with some sessile 

 glands; petiole white-lanate. Corymb bracted at base, its secondary 

 branches usually quite simple. Pedicels lanose with glandless white 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV-Oct., 



hairs. Calyx 8-14 mm. long, the lobes ovate, obtuse to acute, ob- 

 scurely lobed, lanose-pubescent. Corolla: the posterior lip 3-4 mm. 

 long the two lobes united nearly to apex (so strongly hooded, with 

 shallow median orifice) ; anterior lip 20-25 mm. long, 10-12 mm. 

 wide, with orifice opening about one-third of its length; sac upcurv- 

 ing toward hood, the orifice opening externally; externally glandular- 

 pruinose, within slightly pubescent at base on anterior side. Fila- 

 ments 2 mm. long. Anthers 2 mm. long, brown, the walls thick, 

 the sacs broadly contiguous, opening throughout and through the 

 thin connective. Style 1.5 mm. long. Capsule 5-6 mm. long, 

 broadly globose-pyramidal, obtuse, thick-walled, puberulent with 

 gland-tipped hairs. Seeds .5 mm. long, oblong, distally acute, 

 finely ridged, brown. 



Thickets, along streams and at edge of forest, at altitudcv^ of 

 2700 to 3300 meters; Temperate zone of eastern slope of Cordillera 

 Central, from Tolima to Ecuador. Collected also above Bogota,, 

 where probably an escape. 



Tolima. "Rosalito," near Paramo de Ruiz (along stream in 

 meadow), Pennell 2990. Also recorded by Kranzlin from Paramo 

 de Ruiz, Purdie. 



Cundinamarca. Guadalupe, above Bogota, Bro. Ariste-Joseph 

 A230 (U). 



6. Fagelia bogotensis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem probably about 1 meter tall, branched, herbaceous, pubes- 

 cent with white hairs, distally these gland-tipped. Leaves 4-5 cm. 

 long, the blades triangular ovate, cordate, acuminate, irregularly 

 dentate with acute lobes 3^ cm. long, 2.5-3 cm. wide; each on a 

 wingless petiole 10-20 mm. long; blades above green, pubescent, 

 beneath lighter green and moderately pubescent, without sessile 

 glands; petiole pubescent, some hairs gland-tipped. Corymb leafy- 

 bracted at base, its secondary branches becoming much branched. 

 Peduncles and pedicels hirsute with gland-tipped hairs. Calyx 

 10-12 mm. long, the lobes ovate, acuminate, entire, hirsute-pubes- 

 cent. Corolla: the posterior lip 4 mm. long, the two lobes united 

 nearly to apex (so strongly hooded, with shallow median orifice) ; 

 anterior lip about 10 mm. long, with orifice opening less than ^ of 

 length; sac upcurving toward hood, the orifice opening externally, 

 externally glandular-pruinose, within somewhat pubescent at base. 

 Filaments 1.5 mm. long. Anthers 2.5 mm. long, brown, the walls 

 thick, the sacs broadl}- contiguous, opening from proximal end, 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



eventually to the distal apex. Style 3 mm. long. Capsule 6-8 

 mm. long, urceolate -pyramidal, acute, thick walled, pubescent with 

 short gland-tipped hairs. Seeds .3 mm. long, o1)long, mucronately 

 acute at each end, ridged, brown 



Type, Bogota, Cundinamarca, alt. 2600 meters, collected in 1851- 

 1857 by J. Triana; in Herl). Columbia University at The New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



At an altitude of slightly over 2600 meters, Temperate zone of 

 western slope of Cordillera Oriental, in Cundinamarca. 



7, Fagelia trilobata (Hemsl.) Rusby. 



Calceolaria trilobata Hemsl., Biol. Centr. Am., Bot. 2: 439. 1881-2. "Guate- 

 mala, Volean de Fuego, 7000 to 10,000 feet (Godman & Salvin, 239). 

 Colombia. Hb. Kew. The description was mainly drawn up from 

 Hotton's [ = Holton's] Colombian specimen, n. 575." Species an aggre- 

 gate, and to be typified by I. F. Holton 575. An isotype of this, in 

 Herb. Columbia University at The New York Botanical Garden is labeled 

 "Rio Arzobispo, in montibus juxta Bogotam, legit ... 23 Oct. 

 1852." A redescription, from this specimen, is given below. 



Fagelia trilobata (Hemsl.) Rusby in Mem. Torr. Bot. Club 6: 93. 1896. 

 As to synonomy only. 



Stem probably about 1 meter tall, branched, herbaceous, pubes- 

 cent with white hairs, distally these gland-tipped. Leaves 15-17 

 cm. long, the blades triangular, slightly three-lobed, cordate, taper- 

 ing to an acute tip, irregularly crenate-dentate, with callous-tipped 

 lobules, 9-10 cm. long, 11-12 cm. wide, each on a petiole 6-7 cm. 

 long its wing distally very narrow, proximally expanding to 3-4 

 cm. wide and connate with that of opposing leaf; above green, pub- 

 escent, beneath pale-green and slightly pubescent, more so on the 

 veins, narrow- winged portion of petiole pubescent, some hairs with 

 glandular tips. Corymb leafy-bracted at base, its secondary branches 

 much branched. Peduncles and pedicels hirsute with gland-tipped 

 hairs. Calyx 12 mm. long, the lobes ovate, acuminate, obscurely 

 lobate, hirsute -pubescent. Corolla: the posterior lip 5-6 mm. long, 

 the two lobes not united to apex, so not hooded, with deep, narrow 

 median orifice; anterior lip 10-12 mm. long, with orifice opening 

 much less than one-half of length; sac upcurving toward hood; 

 externally glandular-pruinose, within somewhat pubescent at base. 

 Filaments 2 mm. long, widening distally. Anthers 3.5 mm. long, 

 brown or yellowish, the walls thick; the sacs broadly contiguous, 

 opening throughout, the septum between very thin, and ultimately 

 (?) breaking. Style 4 mm. long. Capsule glandular-puberulent, 

 not seen mature. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OP^ THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Thickets along stream, at an altitude between 2600 and 3000 

 meters, Temperate zone of western slope of Cordillera Oriental, in 

 Cundinamarca. 



8. Fagelia alata Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem about 1 meter tall, little branched herbaceous, pubescent 

 with white hairs, distally lanose and with short-stalked glands. 

 Leaves 11-17 cm. long, the blades triangular-ovate, cordate, acum- 

 inate, coarsely doubly dentate (dentate with the lobules triangular 

 and dentate), 7-10 cm. long, 6-8 cm. wide; each on a petiole 4-7 

 cm. long, this broadly winged throughout (in middle 10-18 mm. 

 wide), entire to crenate-dentate, proximally slightly expanding and 

 connate with that of opposing leaf; above green, beneath pale green, 

 on both surfaces slightly pubescent, more so on younger growth. 

 Corymb bractless, its secondary branches repeatedly branched. 

 Peduncles and pedicels pubescent with longer white glandless, and 

 with shorter gland-tipped hairs. Calyx 8-9 mm. long, the lobes 

 lanceolate, acuminate, slightly serrate-dentate or some entire, 

 glandular-puberulent. Corolla: the posterior lip 2-3 mm. long, 

 5 mm. wide, arched, the two lobes united very nearly to apex (so 

 hooded with slight median aperture); anterior lip 8-9 mm. long, 

 7 mm. wide, with orifice opening much less than | length (not strongly 

 upcurving toward hood) ; externally minutely glandular-puberulent, 

 within minutely pubescent at base on anterior side, lemon-yellow 

 margin of sac very finely purple-spotted. Filaments .5-.7 mm. 

 long, narrowing distally. Anthers 2 mm. long, yellowish, the walls 

 thick; the sacs narrowly contiguous, opening throughout, the sep- 

 tum between thin and ultimately breaking. Style 1.5-1.8 mm. 

 long. Capsule 3-4 mm. long, urceolate-pyramidal, emarginate, 

 pubescent with short gland-tipped hairs. Seeds .2-.3 mm. long, 

 oblong, distally obtuse, ridged, black -brown. 



Type, moist bank in forest, loam soil, western slope of Cordillera 

 Oriental, east of Neiva, Huila, altitude 1800-2300 meters, collected 

 in flower and fruit August 1-8, 1917, Rusby & Pennell 579, in Herb. 

 New York Botanical Garden. 



Moist banks in forest at an altitude between 1800 and 2300 meters, 

 Subtropical zone of the western slope of Cordillera Oriental, in Huila. 



9. Fagelia nevadensis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem erect, nearly 1 meter tall, branched, pubescent, lanose 

 distally, with long glandless white dark-jointed hairs. Leaves 16 

 cm. long, the blades ovate, cordate, acuminate, doubly and sharply 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



dentate, (dentate with lobules irregularly and sharply dentate), 10 

 em. long, 8-9 cm. wide, each on a petiole 6 cm. long, uniformly 

 winged throughout (in middle 8-13 nmi. wide), entire, proximally 

 slightly expanding and connate with that of opposing leaf; above 

 green, beneath slightly paler, slightly pubescent on both surfaces. 

 Corymb leafy-bracted at base, its secondary branches long, each 

 dividing above a long peduncular portion into six to eight pedicels. 

 Peduncles and pedicels hirsute with glandless white hairs and with 

 short-stalked glands. Calyx 11-12 mm. long, the lobes ovate, 

 acuminate, entire, pubescent. Corolla: the posterior lip about 5 

 mm. long, 6 mm. wide, arched, the two lobes united to apex (so 

 hooded, truncate without apical aperture) ; anterior lip 13-14 mm. 

 long, 12-14 mm. wide, with orifice opening much less than one-half 

 length of sac (sac strongly up curving toward hood) ; externally gla- 

 brous, within pubescent at base on anterior side. Filaments .8 mm. 

 long. Anther straight, 3.5 mm. long, grayish, its walls firm; sacs 

 contiguous, permanently separated by a firm septum, each opening 

 by a slit from the distal apex which does not reach the proximal 

 end. Style 4 mm. long. Capsule 5-7 mm. long, pyramidal, some- 

 what obtuse, puberulent, with short-stalked glands. Seeds .2-.3 mm. 

 long, irregularly oblong, ridged and transverse-lined, dark-brown. 



Type, damp hillside, clearing at Las Nubes, slopes of Sierra Ne- 

 vada de Santa Marta, Magdalena, collected in flower and fruit 

 December 15, 1898-1901, Herbert H. Smith 1404, in herbarium 

 New York Botanical Garden; isotypes in Gray Herbarium, United 

 States National Museum, and Field Museum of Natural History. 

 Said to be from "4500 feet" [= 1350 meters], such a low elevation 

 for a plant of this genus as to force the suspicion that datum is 

 erroneous. The specimen is more probably from some slope much 

 higher, surely over 2000 meters altitude. 



10. Fagelia tolimensis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem lax, ascending. 1 to 2 meters long, branched, reddish^ her- 

 baceous, glabrate below, above slightly hirsute with dark-jointed 

 hairs. Leaves 8-10 cm. long; the blades triangular-lanceolate, 

 cordate or truncate, acuminate, irregularly and somewhat doubly 

 dentate (dentate with lobules shallowly triangular and irregularly 

 acutely toothed), 6-7 cm. long, 2.5-3.5 cm. wide; each on a petiole 

 2-3 cm. long, broadly winged throughout (in middle 12-15 mm. 

 wide), irregularly shallowly crenately dentate, proximally expanding 

 and connate with that of opposing leaf; above dark-green, minutely 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV-Oct., 



pubescent, becoming glabrate, beneath pale-green, permanently 

 pubescent, especially on the veins. Corymb leafy-bracted at base, 

 its secondary branches soon much branched (pedicels long and 

 slender) Peduncles and pedicels hirsute with dark-jointed hairs, 

 these of various lengths. Calyx 8-10 mm. long, the lobes ovate, 

 acuminate, entire, pubescent. Corolla: the posterior lip 3-4 mm. 

 long, 5 mm. wide, arched, the two lobes united to apex (so hooded, 

 without median aperture); anterior lip 12-14 mm. long. 10 mm. 

 wide, with orifice opening about one-half length (sac strongly up- 

 curving toward hood), externally slightly pubescent to glabrate, 

 within glabrous throughout. Filaments 1.2 mm. long. Anthers 

 horseshoe-shaped, brown; each sac 2 mm. long, contiguous, splitting 

 its entire length, septum between sacs thin, but apparently not rup- 

 turing. Style 5 mm. long, proximally pubescent. Capsule pubes- 

 cent with white glandless hairs; not seen mature. 



Type, moist mossy loam, margin of forest, "Rosalito" (east of 

 Paramo de Ruiz), Tolima, altitude 2800-3100 meters, collected 

 in flower December 15-17, 1917, F. W. Pennell 2979; in Herb. New 

 York Botanical Garden. 



Nearest to Fagelia purpwascens (Sodiro) Pennell, comb, nov., 

 of Ecuador, but appears distinct in having leaves more sharply cut, 

 stem less pubescent, pedicels more slender and sepals shorter. 



Moist soil, edge of forest, at an altitude between 2800 and 3100 

 meters, Temperate zone of eastern slope of Cordillera Central, in 

 Tolima. 



11. Fagelia perfoliata (L. f.) Kuntze. 



('alccolaria perfoliata L. f., Suppl. 86. 1781. "Habitat in Nova Granada. 



Mutis." Type probably from Bogota. 

 Fagelia perfoliata (L. f.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 460. 1891. 



Stems lax, ascending, 1-2 meters long, somewhat branched, red- 

 dish-broAvn, pubescent throughout, above densely so, with hairs not 

 or slightly dark-jointed. Leaves 8-13 cm. long, the blades tri- 

 angular-lanceolate to ovate, cordate to truncate, acuminate, irregu- 

 larly and somewhat doubly dentate (dentate with lobules shalbwh' 

 triangular and shallowly dentate), 5-8 cm. long, 3.5-5.5 cm. wide; 

 each on a petiole 3-5 cm. long, broadly winged throughout (in 

 middle 15-20 mm. wide), sHghtly crenate-dentate to entire, prox- 

 imally expanding and connate with that of opposing leaf; above 

 green, beneath whitish -green, pul^escent on both surfaces, densely 

 canescent beneath. Coryml:) leafy-bracted at base, its secondary 

 branches soon much branched (pedicels long and slender). Pe- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



diincles and pedicels villous, with spreading dark-jointed hairs, 

 these mostly long. Calyx 9-11 mm. long, the lobes ovate, acumi- 

 nate, entire, putescent. Corolla: the posterior lip 4-5 mm. long, 

 5-6 mm. wide, arched, the two lobes united to apex (so hooded with- 

 out median apertm-e) ; anterior lip 13-14 mm. long, 7-8 mm. wide, 

 with orifice opening ab.out one-half length (sac strongly upcurving 

 toward hood) , externally slightly pubescent to glabrate, within 

 glabrous throughout. Filaments about 1 mm. long. Anthers horse- 

 shoe shaped, brown, each sac 1.8 mm. long, contiguous, splitting 

 from proximal end its entire length, septum between sacs thin and 

 rupturing. Style 5 mm. long, proximally pubescent. Capsule 5 

 mm. long, urceolate pyramidal, acutish, pubescent with white gland- 

 less hairs. Seeds .5 mm. long, lanceolate, distally acuminate, ridged, 

 and transverse-lined, brown. 



Moist bushy slopes, along streams in shrub-zone, at altitudes of 

 2700 to 3000 meters, Temperate zone of western slope of Cordil'era 

 Oriental, in Cundinamarca. 



Cundinamarca. Rio San Cristobal, near Bogota (bushy moun- 

 tain-slope, alt. 2800-3000 m.), Pennell 2380; Chipaque (moist road- 

 bank above, alt. 2800-2900 m.), Pennell 1317; Sibate (luishy slopes 

 near, alt. 2700-3000 m.), Pennell 2485; Bogota (alt. 2700 m.), 

 J. Triana (U, Y). 



12. Fagelia ovata (Smith) Kimtz. 



Calceolaria ovata Smith, Ic. Ined. 1:3 pi. 3. 1789. "Ex Peru semina setulit 



Dombey." 

 Fagelia ovata (Smith) Kuntz, Rev. Gen. 460. 1891. 



Stem erect or ascending, 1-4 dm. tall, branched, pubescent with 

 white gland-tipped hairs. Leaves 2.5-3.5 cm. long, the blades 

 ovate, narrowed to nearly truncate at base, acute, obscurely simply 

 serrate with shallow teeth, 2.3-3 cm. long, 1-1.5 cm. wide, each on a 

 petiole .2-. 5 cm. long, not winged, lanose with gland-tipped hairs; 

 green, beneath slightly paler, pubescent on both surfaces. In- 

 florescence apparently axiHary, actually at each node two pedicels 

 occur, at right angles to which are two leaves from the axil of one of 

 which usually develops the branch which indefinitely repeats this 

 manner of branching. Pedicels pubescent wdth gland-tipped hairs. 

 Calyx 3 mm. long, the lobes ovate, acutish, entire, pubescent. Cor- 

 olla: the posterior lip 3-4 mm. long, 4-5 mm. wide, arched, the two 

 lobes united throughout, distally attenuate to a slightly notched 

 apex (so hooded); anterior hp 5 mm. long, 5 mm. wide, widest at 

 base, with orifice opening much less than one-half length of sac 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



(sac, upcurvecl toward hood, its anterior surface incurved forming 

 a broad pouch into which anthers shed pollen and into which the 

 stigma grows, apparently ensuring self-pollination); externally gla- 

 brous, within with a few hairs about base. Filaments 1.5 mm. 

 long. Anthers .6 mm. long, elliptic or hemispheric, yellow, the 

 walls thin; sacs contiguous by a broad contact, opening throughout. 

 Style 1.2 mm. long. Capsule 5-6 mm. long, narrowly pyramidal, 

 obtusish, thin-walled, sparsely paberu lent with short-stalked glands. 

 Seeds .1-.2 mm. long, oval, obtuse, ridged and transverse-lined, 

 brown. 



Type, moist roadside below Chipaque, Cundinamarca, altitude 

 1800-2200 m., collected in flower August 23, 1917, F. W. Pennell 

 1327; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Moist shaded banks, at altitudes of 1300 to 2200 meters. Sub- 

 tropical zone of eastern slope of Cordillera Oriental, in Cundina- 

 marca. 



Cundinamarca. Chipaque (moist roadside below, alt. 1800-2200 

 m.), Pennell 1327; Quetame to Monte Redondo (moist cliff, along 

 stream in woodland, alt. 1300 m.), Pennell 1352, (moist bank, alt. 

 1400-1500 m.), Pennell 1854. 



13. Fagelia micrantha Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem spreading and laxly ascending, 2-3 dm. long branched, 

 sparsely pubescent below with short few-celled gland-tippecl hairs. 

 Leaves 2-4 cm. long, the blades acute or obtusish at apex, irregu- 

 larly pinnately lobed with 1-2 pairs of segments, the incisions usually 

 reaching ^ to f the distance to the midrib, the lobules and main 

 portion of the blade irregularly dentate, 1 5-3 cm. long, 1.5-2.5 cm. 

 wide; each on a petiole .5-1 cm. long, slight'y winged, pr3ximally 

 clasping stem and slightly connate with, that of opposing leaf; abo-ve 

 cleep-green, with sparse scattered pubescence soon becoming gla- 

 brous, beneath pale-green and nearly glabrous. Corymb leafy- 

 bracted at base (the two primary flowers developed), the secondary 

 branches scarcely or not longer than the primary pedicels, usually 

 once dividing, and bracted with reduced leaves. Peduncles and 

 pedicels pubescent with short gland-tipped hairs. Calyx 3-4 mm. 

 long, the lobes oblong-ovate, obtuse, slightly serrate, pubescent 

 proximally. Corolla: the posterior lip about 2 mm long and 2 mm. 

 wide, arched, the two lobes united and slightly hooded, free toward 

 apex (leaving a narrow arched aperture into hood) , anterior lip 

 5-6 mm. long, 4-5 mm. wide, with narrow base, hooded almost 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



entire length (sac strongly upcurving against hood) : externally 

 glabrous or minutely puberulent at l)ase, within glabrous. Fila- 

 ments none. Anther with two sacs separated on two arms of the 

 connective, both sacs fertile; opening throughout, the anterior pro- 

 jecting into orifice, smaller; posterior arm (with sac) 1.5 mm. long, 

 anterior arm (with sac) 1 mm. long. Style 6-.8 mm. long. Cap- 

 sule glabrous, not seen mature. 



Type, along streamlet, edge of forest, "Rosalito" (between MuriJlo 

 and Paramo de Ruiz) Tolima, altitude 2800-3100 meters, collected 

 in flower December 17, 1917, F. W. Pennell 3145; in Herb. New 

 York Botanical Garden. Growing with 3119, F. crenati oha. 



Along streamlets, edge of forest, at an altitude between 2800 

 and 3100 meters, Temperate zone of eastern slope of Coi'dillera 

 Central, n Tolima. 



14. Fagelia radiculoides Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem spreading and laxly ascending, 1-15 dm. long, branched, 

 glabrate, above pubescent with spreading gland-tipped hairs. Leaves 

 2-10 cm. long, the blades acute to acuminate at apex, pinnately 

 lobed with usually three pairs of lanceolate segments, the incisions 

 extending nearly to the midrib, the lobules and terminal segment 

 irregularly serrate-dentate, 1.5-6 cm. long, 1.5-6.5 cm. wide; each 

 on a petiole .5-4 cm. long, narrowly winged, proximally slightly 

 expanding and connate with that of opposing leaf; above deep-green, 

 with scattered hairs or glabrous, beneath glaucous, glabrous or pu- 

 bescent on the midrib. Corymb leafy-bracted at base (the two 

 primary flowers developed), the secondary branches long and re- 

 peatedly dividing, bracted throughout. Peduncles and pedicels 

 pubescent with gland-tipped hairs. Cal>^ 4-5 mm. long, the lobes 

 ovate, acute to obtusish, obscurely slightly serrate, pubescent prox- 

 imally and on margin with gland-tipped hairs. Corolla: the pos- 

 terior lip 1.5-2 mm. long, 2 mm. wide, arched, the two lobes united 

 and slightly hooded, free toward apex (leaving a narrow arched 

 aperture into hood); anterior lip 6-7 mm. long, 4-5 nmi, wdde, 

 narrowed at base, hooded almost entire length (sac strongly upcurv- 

 ing against hood); externally and internally glabrous. Filaments 

 none. Anther with two sacs separated on two arms of the con- 

 nective, both sacs fertile, opening throughout, of about equal size, 

 each arm (with sac) about 1 mm. long. Style .7-.8 mm. long. 

 Capsule 3-4 mm. long, broadly globose-pyramidal, rounded and 

 slightly notched, somewhat pubescent with gland-tipped hairs. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct. 



Seeds .5-.6 mm. long, oblong, obtuse, ridged (with rounded ridges) 

 dark-brown. 



Type, moist rocky canon, Rio San Francisco, above Bogota, 

 Cundinamarca, altitude 2700-2800 meters, collected in flower and 

 fruit September 13, 1917, F. W. Pennell 1942; in Herb. New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



Moist or wet soil, springheads, swales and cliffs, partially shaded 

 or open, at altitudes of 2600 to 3200 meters, occasionally descending 

 to 1500 meters, Temperate zone, ascending to Paramo, where 

 dwarfed, and to Subtropical zone, where more rank; on both slopes 

 of the Cordillera Oriental, in Cundinamarca. 



Cundinamarca. Zipacjuira (springhead in meadow, alt. 2650 m.), 

 Pennell 2534; Mt. Chuscal, west of Zipaquira, (swale on paramo, 

 alt. 3100-3200 m.), [only 1-2 dm. tall; leaves in some plants more 

 pubescent], Pennell 2602; Bogota (moist rocky canon on Rio San 

 Francisco above, alt. 2700-2800 m.), Pennell 1942, (moist bank, 

 base of mount, alt. 2700-2800 m.), Pennell 2293; Sibate (wet road- 

 bank, alt. 2600-2800 m.), Pennell 2386; Ubague (moist loam in 

 shrub-zone abo\e, ait. 2700-3000 m.), Pennell 1898; Monte Redondo 

 to Quetame (wet bank, alt. 1400-1500 m.) [plant especially rank], 

 Pennell 1855. 



15. Fagelia crenatiloba Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem ascending, 3-6 dm. long, little branched, glabrous or nearly 

 so, above pubescent with white several-celled glandless hairs. Leaves 

 5-7 cm. long, the blades obtuse or acutish at apex, pinnately lobed 

 with 2-3 pairs of segments, the incisions rarely extending over 

 ^-f the distance to the midrib, the lobules and main portion of 

 blade crenately dentate, 3.5-5 cm. long, 3-4 cm. wide; each on a 

 petiole 1.5-2 cm. long, slightly margined, glabrous or nearly so, 

 proximally somewhat expanding and connate with that of opposing 

 leaf; above green and with scattered pubescence, beneath pale-green 

 and the midrib and principal veins pubescent. Corymb leafy- 

 bracted at base (the two primary flowers developed) , its secondary 

 branches longer, once or twice dividing and bracted throughout 

 with reduced leaves. Peduncles and pedicels finely pubescent with 

 several-celled glandless hairs. Calyx 5-6 mm. long, the lobes ovate, 

 obtuse or acutish, slightly serrate, slightly pubescent, especially 

 proximally. Corolla: the posterior lip 1-2 mm. long, 2-2.5 mm. 

 wide, arched, the two lobes united and slightly hooded, free toward 

 apex (leaving a narrow or triangular slit-like aperture into hood); 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



anterior lip 5-7 mm. long, 4-5 mm. wide, narrowed at base, hooded 

 almost entire length (sac strongly upcm^ving against hood) ; exter- 

 nally glabrous or finely puberulent proximally, within glabrous. 

 Filament none or very short. Anther with the two sacs separated 

 on two arms of the connective, each (including sac) about 1.5 mm. 

 long; posterior sac .6-.7 mm. long, whitish, opening throughout, 

 fertile, concealed within hood; anterior sac shorter, projecting into 

 orifice, partially or wholly sterile. Style 1 mm. long. Capsule 

 nearly globose, finely pubescent with glandless hairs; not seen 

 mature. 



Type, along streamlet, edge of forest, ''Rosalito," (between 

 Murillo and Paramo de Ruiz), Tolima, altitude 2800-3100 meters, 

 collected in flower December 17, 1917, F. W. Pennell 3119; in Herb. 

 New York Botanical Garden. 



Along streamlets, edge of forest, at an altitude between 2800 and 

 3100 meters. Temperate zone of eastern slope of Cordillera Central, 

 in Tolima. 



16. Fagelia chelidonioides (H. B. K.) Kuntze. 



.Calceolaria chelidonioides H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp., 2: 37S. 1818. "Crescit 

 in radicibus mentis Javirac prope Quito, alt. 1500 hex. [ = ca. 2850 m.] 

 [Humboldt & Bonpland]." 



Fagelia chelidonioides (H. B. K.) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 2: 459. 1891. 



Fagelia diversifolia Pennell, in Addisonia4: 73, pi. 153. "Type . . . collected 

 on a moist bank at Chipaque, Department of Cundinamarca, Colombia, at 

 an altitude of about 8700 feet, August 23, 1917, my number 1320, and is 

 preserved in the hebarium of the New York Botanical Garden." Specimens 

 seen later appear to unite this with the plant from Ecuador. 



Stem erect or ascending, 3-9 dm. tall, little branched, sparsely 

 pubescent, more so about nodes, with few-celled gland-tipped hairs. 

 Leaves 4-15 cm. long, the blades acute to acuminate at apex, the 

 lower ovate and shallowly pinnately lobed, irregularly serrate- 

 dentate, the upper pinnately lobed nearly to the midrib with two or 

 three pairs of oval or ovate, irregularly doubly serrate-dentate 

 segments, (the odd terminal segment largest), 3-10 cm. long, 2.5- 

 7.5 cm. wide, each on a petiole 1-5 cm. long, slightly margined, 

 glandular- pubescent, proximally slightly expanding and clasping the 

 stem, usually slightly connate with that of opposing leaf; green 

 above, pale green beneath, with scattered pubescence on both 

 surfaces. Corymb leafy-bracted at base (the two primary flowers 

 developed), its secondary branches elongated, several times dividmg 

 and bracted throughout with reduced leaves. Peduncles and pedi- 

 cels finely pubescent with few-celled gland-tipped hairs. Calyx 

 7-8 mm. long, the lobes ovate, acuminate, slightly serrate (the 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



few serratures not callous-tipped), slightly pubescent on the back, 

 and conspicuously ciliate with gland tipped hairs. Corolla: the 

 posterior lip about 3 mm. long, 3-4 mm. wide, arched, the two 

 lobes united and hooded, but not to apex (leaving a narrow slit like 

 aperture into hood), anterior hp 10-15 mm. long, 11-13 mm. wide, 

 narrowed at base, hooded almost entire length (sac strongly up- 

 curving against hood); externally glabrous or puberulent on pos- 

 terior lip, within pul^escent about base and within posterior lip. 

 Filament none. Anther with the two sacs separated on two arms 

 of the connective, each about 1.5-1.8 mm. long; posterior sac 1.2 

 mm. long, yellowish, opening throughout, fertile, concealed within 

 hood; anterior sac short, orange yellow, sterile, projecting into the 

 orifice, the club-like dark connective arm ser\ing as a lever against 

 which entering insect pushes, thus forcing the fertile sac out through 

 the slit like aperture of the hood and against back of insect. Style 

 1.1-1.3 mm. long. Capsule 8 mm. long, globose-oyramidal, obtuse, 

 pubescent with short gland-tipped hairs. Seeds .6-.7 mm. long, 

 oblong, obtuse, ridged (with high rounded ridges), brown. 



Moist soil, roadside ditches and banks, frequently cultivated and- 

 possibly introduced from Ecuador, at altitudes of 2000 to 2700 

 meters, Subtropical zone of eastern slope of Cordillera Oriental, 

 in Cundinamarca; also obviously from cultivation at Bogota and 

 at "Balsillas", east of Neiva in Huila, also from the Subtropical zone 

 of the Cordillera Occidental, in Valle. In Ecuador. 



Cundinamarca. Chipaque (moist bank, alt. 2600-2700 m.), 

 Pennell 1320; Ubague (moist soil, alt. 2000-2500 m.), Pennell 1877; 

 [Zipaquira (moist ditch on hill — alt. 2900 m.), evidently escaped 

 from garden, Pennell 2567]. 



[Huila. ''Balsillas," on Rio Balsillas (cult, in garden, alt. 2000- 

 2100 m.), Rusby & Pennell 692.] 



Cauca. Cuesta de Tocota, road from Buenaventura to Call, 

 western Cordillera; alt. 1500-1900 m., H. Pittier 698 (U). 



17. Fagelia scalaris Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem erect or ascending, about 1 meter tail, little branched, 

 pubescent to hirsute above with many-celled dark-jointed not or 

 scarcely gland-tipped hairs. Leaves 5-8 cm. long; the blades acumi- 

 nate at apex, pinnatisect (cut nearly to midrib) with 2 or 3 pairs 

 of lanceolate-ovate, irregularly serrate-dentate segments (the odd 

 terminal segment largest), 4-6 cm long, 3-5 cm. wide; each on a 

 petiole 1-2 cm. long, very narrowly winged, hirsute, proximally 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



slightly expanding and connate with that of opposing leaf; green, 

 beneath paler, with scattered pubescence on both surfaces. Corymb 

 leafy-bracted at base (the primary flowers sometimes not developed) , 

 its secondarj^ branches (one or both developed) long, once or twice 

 dividing and bracted throughout with reduced leaves. Peduncles 

 and pedicels hirsute with yellowish-white dark -jointed hairs. Calyx 

 6 mm. long, the lobes ovate, acute, serrate (with shallow callous- 

 tipped serratures), densely hirsute. Corolla: the posterior lip 

 2-3 mm. long, 4 mm. wide, arched, the two lobes united and hooded, 

 but not to apex (leaving a slit- like aperture into hood), anterior 

 Up 15-21 mm. long, 14-18 mm. wide, narrowed at base, with narrow 

 orifice, hooded almost entire length (sac strongly upcurving against 

 hood); externally pubescent with short hairs on posterior lip, with 

 longer hairs on base of anterior lip, within pubescent at base. Fila- 

 ments very short or not developed. Anthers straight, 4 mm. long, 

 the two sacs separated on two arms of the connective; posterior 

 sac 1.5 mm. long, yellowish, opening throughout, fertile, concealed 

 within hood; anterior sac short, orange-yellow, sterile, projecting 

 into the orifice, the club-like dark connective-arm serving as a lever 

 against which entering insect pushes, thus forcing the fertile sac 

 out through the slit- like aperture of the hood and against back of 

 insect. Style 2 mm. long. Capsule 6 mm. long, globose pyramidal, 

 obtuse, pubescent with glandless hairs. Seeds .6-.7 mm. long, 

 oblong, obtuse, ridge-angled, brown. 



Type, swale, "Balsillas," on Rio Balsillas, altitude 2000-2100 

 meters, collected in flower and fruit August 3, 1917, Rusby & Pen- 

 nell 710; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Swales, at an altitude of 2000 to 2100 meters. Subtropical zone 

 of eastern slope of Cordillera Oriental, in Huila. 



18. Fagelia pinnatisecta Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stem ascending, 2-6 dm, tall, little branched, pubescent above 

 with many-celled dark-jointed not or scarcely gland-tipped hairs. 

 Leaves 3-5.5 cm. long; the blades acuminate at apex, pinnatisect 

 (cut nearly to midrib) with three pairs of lanceolate, irregularly 

 serrate -dentate segments, (the odd terminal segment largest) 2-3.5 

 cm. long, 2-3 cm. wide; each on a petiole 1-2 cm. long, narrowly 

 winged, somewhat hirsute, proximally slightly expanding and con- 

 nate with that of opposing leaf; green and pubescent above, beneath 

 pale, and hirsute pubescent on the main veins, sparsely so over sur- 

 face. Corymb leafy-bracted at base (the primary flowers not 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



developed), its secondary branches long, once or twice dividing and 

 leafy-bracted throughout with reduced leaves. Peduncles and pedi- 

 cels hirsute with yellowish- white dark-jointed hairs. Calyx 7-9 

 mm. long, the lobes lanceolate or narrowly ovate, acuminate, serrate 

 (with not or scarcely callous-tipped serratures), hirsute, especially 

 proximally. Corolla: the posterior lip 2-3 mm. long, 2-3 mm. 

 wdde, arched, the two lobes united and hooded, but not to apex 

 (leaving a narrow aperture into hood); anterior lip 8-10 mm. long, 

 6-7 mm. wide, narrowed at base, hooded over f length (sac strongly 

 upcurving against hood); externally and within slightly pubescent 

 about base. Filaments very short or none. Anther with the two 

 sacs separated on two arms of the connective, each about 1.6-1.8 

 mm. long; posterior sac 1.2 mm. long, yellowish, opening through- 

 out, fertile, concealed within hood; anterior sac short, orange-yellow, 

 sterile, projecting into the orifice, the club-like dark connective- 

 arm serving as a lever as in F . scalaris. Style nearly 2 mm. long. 

 Capsule 4 mm. long, broad-globose, rounded, pubescent with gland- 

 less and some gland-tipped hairs. Seeds .6-.7 mm. long, oblong, 

 obtusish, ridge-angled, brown. 



Type, swale, "Balsillas," on Rio Balsillas, altitude 2000-2100 

 meters, collected in flower and fruit August 3, 1917, Rusby & Pen- 

 nell 721 , in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. From the same 

 swale as 710, F. scalaris. 



Swales, at an altitude of 2000 to 2100 meters. Subtropical zone 

 of eastern slope of Cordillera Oriental, in Huila. 



21. RUSSELIAJacquin. 

 Russelia Jacq., Enum. PL Carib. 25. 1760. 



Type species, R. sarmentosa Jacq., of Cuba. 



1. Russelia colombiana Pennell, sp. nov. 



Her]), or shrubl^y below, diffuse, reaching 5 feet long. Stem 

 6-angled below, sharply 4-angled above, glabrous or with sparse 

 pubescence. Leaves in threes, the upper opposite, ovate, 5 cm. 

 long, 3 cm. wide, truncate at base, strongly acuminate, sharply 

 serrate-dentate with ascending teeth (bracts lance-ovate, coarsely 

 toothed), glabrous nearly from the first, green, with brown wax dots 

 on upper surface. Inflorescence much elongated, of axillary cymes. 

 Cymes hirtellous, 5 15-flowered. Calyx 4 mm. long, with brown 

 wax dots, its lobes narrowly ovate wdth caudate pubescent tips 

 nearly equaling the length of the body, slightly pubescent. Corolla 

 red, 10-11 mm. long, its lobes 1.5 mm. long, the posterior united 

 |-f their length, externally glabrous, within on anterior side pubes- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



cent with yellow hairs. Stamens and pistil glabrous throughout. 

 Capsule brown, globose-ovoid, 4.5-5 mm. long, with a slender beak 

 1-1.5 mm. long. 



Related to R. sarmentosa Jacq. of Cuba, which differs in the 

 stem being 4-angled, its leaves smaller, with rounded teeth and 

 obtuse at apex, its sepals with shorter caudate tips, its corollas 

 slightly larger, 12-14 mm. long, and its capsules smaller, excluding 

 the beak, only 4 mm. long. 



Type, in mountain forest, on the Agua Dulce road, between 

 Santa Marta and the Sierra Nevada, altitude 450 meters [ = 1500 

 feet], collected in flower and fruit November 22, 1898, Herbert H. 

 Smith 1361; in Herb. New York Botanical Garden; isotypes in 

 United States National Herbarium, Gray Herbarium and Field 

 Museum of Natural History. 



Forest, at an altitude of 450 meters, Tropical zone on lower slopes 

 of Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Magdalena. 



22. ANGELONIA Humboldt and Bonpland. 

 Angclonia Humb. & BonpL, PL Aequin 2: 92. 1809. 



Type species, A. salicariaefoHa H. & B. 



1, Angelonia salicariaefolia Hiimb. & Bonpl. 



A.salicariacfolia Humb. & BonpL, PL Aequin. 2: 92. pL 108. 1809. "Hab- 

 itat in America meridionali ad Caracas." . . . " Croit sur les collines 

 arides de gneis.s, qui avoisinent la ville de Caracas, a une hauteur de cinq 

 ou six cents toises [ca. 1000-1200 m.] ou-dessus du niveau de I'ocean." 

 Specimen from Caracas, Otto Kuntze 1407, seen in Herb. New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



Gravelly slopes, rather moist, along the lower western slopes 

 of the Cordillera Oriental, and the similar eastern slopes of the 

 Cordillera Central, doubtless continuously encircling the upper 

 Magdalena Valley; in the Cauca valley; extending eastward along 

 the northern lower slopes of the Venezuelan Andes; at altitudes 

 of 450-1400 meters. Tropical zone.* 



Cundinamarca. Anapoima, J. Triana (Y); Fusagasuga, I. F. 

 Holton 577 (Y); Fusagasuga to Pandi, Pennell 2714 (Y); Icononzo^ 

 Pennell2761 (Y). 



Tolima. San Lorenzo, (first foothill of Cordillera Central, west 

 ,of), Pennell 3517 (Y). 



■• Angelonia angustifolia Benth. 



Specimens collected from plants cultivated at "Medellin," on the bank of 

 the Rio Sinu, Bolivar, Pennell 4141 (Y) appear to be this commonly cultivated 

 species of Mexico. The two plants are readily distinguished: 



Herbage densely glandular-pubescent. Leaves lanceolate., clasping at base. 



1. ^4. salicariaefolia. 

 Herbage glabrous or sparsely glandular-pubescent. Leaves linear-lanceolate, 

 narrowed at base. 2. A. angustifolia. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Huila. Neiva (open slope of first foothill of Cordillera Oriental, 

 east of), Rusby & Pennell 1082 (Y); Quebrada de Angeles, above 

 Natagaima, Rusby & Pennell 284 (Y). 



Valle. Call, H. Pittier 632 (V). 



23. LINARIA Miller. 

 Linaria Mill., Gard. Diet. ed. IV. 1754. 

 Type species. Antirrhinum linaria L., Sp. PI. 616. 1753, of Europe. 



1. Linaria texana Scheele. 



Linaria texana Scheele in Linrlaea 21: 761. 1848. "Zwischen Houston 

 und Austin [Texas] haufig: Romer." Type not seen nor verified, but 

 description evidently of plant here characterized. 



Meadow-land, on the Sabana of Bogota, at an altitude of 2600 

 to 2650 meters, certainly introduced. Widespread through western 

 temperate North America, and collected extensively in Andine and 

 Temperate South America, probably always as a weed. 



Cundinamarca. Sibate (meadow on sabana, alt. ), 



Pennell 2469; Hacienda de Tequendama, I. F. Holton (Y). 



Corrections to ^' Scrophulariaceae of the Southeastern United States" 



in Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 



of Philadelphia 1919: 224-291. 1920. 



p. 228, last line. For " Ranapalus" read " Macuillamia." 

 p. 231, 1. 19. Delete "lanate." 



p. 238, 1. 31. Delete "stoloniferous." The plants have slender root- 

 stocks, not stolons, 

 p. 242. For entry under genus "8. Ranapalus Kellogg," substitute: 

 "8. Macuillamia Rafinesque. 

 Macuillamia Raf. [Neogenyton 2. 1825, generic description 



only] Autik. Bot. 44. 1840. 

 Type species, Monniera rotundifolia Michx., of lUinois. 

 1. Macuillamia rotundifolia (Michx.) Raf. 



Monniera rotundifolia Michx., " 



p. 248, 1. 8. Before the word "type" read: 



Micranthemum orhiculatum Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 1 : 10. pi. 2. 

 1803. "Hab. in udis opacisque sylvarum Carolinae et Geor- 



giae " 



p. 250, 1. 9. Under "1. Verhascum hlattaria L.," insert: 



"Verhascum clayioni Michx., Fl. Bor. Amer. 1: 148. 1803. 



'Hab. in Carolina [A. Michaux].' Evidently a form of the 



introduced species, V. hlattaria." 



p. '254, 1. 29. For "Texas" read "Louisiana." Penstemon australis 



is replaced west of the Mississippi River by P. pauciflorus Buckl. 



p. 255, 1. 18. Delete "and west to Oklahoma." Specimens from 



west of the Mississippi River belong to another species, 

 p. 288, 1. 1. Delete "Seeds.' 



p. 290, 1. 29. For "straw-colored" read "brown to straw-colored," 

 as the supposed contrast in color of capsule cannot be maintained. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



189 



TWO NEW CYPRINOID FISHES FROM FORMOSA. 

 BY MASAMITSU OSHIMA. 



By courtesy of Mr. Moichiro JMaki, of Taihoka Normal School, 

 the author was able to examine the collections of Formosan fresh- 

 water fishes made by his students during the summer of the year 

 1919. Among them two species of Leuciscus were found which are 

 apparently new to science. Unfortunately, there are no records with 

 regard to their type localities. It is certain, however, that they 

 were obtained in the mountain streams of central Formosa, because 

 other species preserved in the same bottle, that is, Salmo formosanus 

 and Liobagrus formosamis, are not found from in other places than 

 the tributaries of the Taiko and Taito Rivers. 



Leuciscus schisturus new species. Fig. 1. 



Head 4,20 in length; depth 4. 65; D. iii,7; A. in, 8; P. 17, V. 9; 

 scales 74 in lateral line ; 14 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral 

 line, 16 between the latter and middle of belly; 9 scales between 



Fig. 1. — Leuciscus schisturus new species. 



lateral line and the root of ventral; width of head 2 in its length; 

 snout 3 in head; eye 5; interorbital space 3; pectoral 1.50; ventral 

 1.81; pharyngeal teeth 4, 2-2, 5; gill-rakers 4+8. Body elongate, 

 compressed posteriorly; head elongate, triangular, upper profile 

 nearly straight; snout rather long, pointed, edge of its skin slightly 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct„ 



covering the upper lip; interorbital space and top of head more 

 or less convex, eye small, anterior and superior, 1. 46 in snout; 

 mouth salDinferior, not very oblique, maxillary reaching posterior 

 border of nostril; lips thin, the lower discontinuous, distinct at 

 the angle of mouth only; anterior margin of lower jaw trenchant; 

 pharyngeal teeth hooked, with no grinding surface; nostrils close 

 together, on the supra-lateral part of snout; gill -openings rather 

 large; gill-rakers rather short and pointed. Origin of dorsal mid- 

 way between tip of snout and base of caudal, the first branched 

 ray the longest, reaching beyond the others to origin of anal when 

 depressed, its outer margin nearly straight; pectoral five-eighths 

 the distance to ventrals; origin of ventral in advance of that of 

 dorsal, inserted nearer origin of anal than that of pectoral; anal 

 inserted a little nearer to tip of pectoral than base of caudal, the 

 first branched ray the highest, scarcely reaching beyond the others 

 when depressed, the base of the fin 1.50 in its height, outer border 

 shghtly concave; caudal peduncle long, its depth 2.50 in head; 

 caudal fin deeply emarginate, lobes sharply pointed. Scales cycloid, 

 imbricated, of rather even size; no pectoral flap; ventral with a 

 slender scaly flap; lateral line continuous, more or less decurved 

 anteriorly, running along the middle of tail. Color in alcohol uni- 

 formly grayish brown above, paler below; all the fins whitish. Total 

 length 145 mm. 



Habitat: Central Formosa (type-locality unknown). 



{Schistmus, split-tail; with reference to the vvell-developed rudi- 

 mentary caudal rays.) 



Leuciscus medius new species. 



Head 3.83 in length; depth 4.55; D. iii,7; A. iii,7; P. 15; V. 8; 

 scales 76 in lateral line; 19 scales between the origin of dorsal and 

 lateral line, 17 between the latter and middle of belly; 11 scales 

 between lateral line and the root of ventral; width of head 2 in 

 its length; snout 3 in head; eye 4.33; interorbital space 3; pec- 

 toral 1.71; ventral 1.81; pharyngeal teeth 4,2-2,5; gill-rakers 2 + 7. 

 Body elongate, compressed; head elongate, pointed, sides flat- 

 tened, upper profile nearly straight; snout rather pointed, slightly 

 produced; eye moderate, anterior 1.50 in snout; mouth terminal, 

 slightly obhque, maxillary reaching posterior border of nostril; lips 

 thin, not cUIated; lower lips discontinuous; anterior margin of 

 lower jaw trenchant; pharyngeal teeth hooked, with no grinding 

 surfaces, nostrils close together, in front of eye above; inter- 




1920. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



191 



orbital s])ace and top of head very slightly convex; gill-openings 

 moderate; gill-rakers rather short and pointed. Origin of dorsal 

 nearer base of caudal than tip of snout, rather high, the first branched 

 ray the longest, reaching far beyond the origin of anal when de- 

 pressed, its outer margin nearly straight, anal inserted nearer tip 

 of pectoral than base of caudal, the first branched ray the highest, 

 not reaching beyond the others when depressed, the base of the 

 fin 1.42 in its height, its outer margin straight; pectoral two-thirds 

 the distance to ventrals; ventrals inserted nearer origin of anal 

 than that of pectoral, in advance of origin of dorsal; caudal peduncle 



Fig. 2. — Leuciscus medius new species. 



compressed, its depth 2 in head; caudal fin deeply forked, the lobes 

 obtusely pointed. Scales cycloid, moderately small, of rather even 

 size; no pectoral flap; ventral with a small fleshy flap; lateral line 

 continuous, slightly decurved, running along the middle of the tail. 

 Color in alcohol grayish brown above, paler below; all the fins 

 whitish. Total length, 110 mm. 



Habitat: Central Formosa (type-locality unknown). 



The present species distinctly differs from the former in having 

 19 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line. 



{Medius, central, the species having been obtained in central 

 Formosa.) 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



MOLLUSKS FROM LAKE CHAPALA, STATE OP JALISCO AND VICINITY. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Professor Francisco Contreras, in the course of his stadies of 

 the natural resources of Mexico, has made a small collection of the 

 shells of Lake Chapala. The occurrence of pecuUar species of 

 Planorbis, Physa, and Anodoniites probably indicates that there is 

 a considerable endemic element in the mollusk fauna of this Mex- 

 ican lake. 



In treating of the Planorbes and Physas of Lake Patzcuaro', the 

 writer called attention to the more enlarged last whorl of the shell, 

 compared with the most closely related species found in other Mex- 

 ican localities. It was conjectured that larger lung capacity might 

 be advantageous to air-breathing snails of this deep lake. The 

 same peculiarity is seen in Planorbis contrerasi and Physa solidissima 

 of Lake Chapala; but while the shells of Lake Patzcuaro are thin 

 and light, those of Chapala are remarkably solid, perhaps an adap- 

 tation to wave-beaten shores. 



Polygyra ventrosula (Pfr.). 



Chapala. Diameter about 10 mm. Also similar smaller shells, 

 diam. 7.3 mm., which are referable to the variety hmdsvi (Pfr.). 

 Whether these sizes occur in the same colony, or are connected by 

 intermediate sizes, should be noted. 



Polygyra matermontana jaliscoensis Pils. 



Chapala. This form was described from Guadalajara. 

 Drymaeus hegewischi (Pfr.). 



Chapala. 



Planorbis tenuis chapalensis new subspecies. Fig. 1. 



The shell is very strong and solid with narrow, deeply sunken 

 spire on the left side. The aperture is piriform, the penult whorl 

 intruding but little. 



Greatest diam. 16, alt. at aperture 9.3 mm. 



^ These Proceedings for 1891, p. 324. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



193 



Laguna de Chapala, State of Jalisco, collected by Prof. Francisco 

 Contreras, March 1, 1920. Type No. 46,194. 



Fig. 1. — Planorhis tenuis chapalensis. Enlarged. 

 Planorbis contrerasi new species, Fig. 2, 



The shell is solid; last whorl compressed on the right side, bluntly 

 angular, with funnel- or vortex-shaped umbilicus; left side angular, 

 with rather wide bowl-shaped concavity. Surface closely striate 

 spirally within both concavities, seemingly with weak traces of spiral 

 lines over the peripheral part, though the specimens are all so wave- 

 worn that the external sculpture cannot be seen except within the 

 aperture. The aperture is narrow, angular at the ends. 



Greatest diameter 14.3, alt. at aperture 10.2 mm.; fully 4 whorls. 



^ c>} 



. Fig. 2. — Planorhis contrerasi. Enlarged. 



Laguna de Chapala, State of Jalisco, collected by Prof. Francisco 

 Contreras, March 1, 1920. Type No. 46,193. 



While the shape is somewhat like that of Planorhis tejiuis exag- 

 geratus, of Lake Patzcuaro, this species differs by its solidity and 

 especially by the strongly developed spiral sculpture. It is a very 

 distinct species. 



Physa solidissima Pils. 



Laguna de Chapala. Dead specimens of this remarkably globose, 

 heavy species are somewhat larger than the type, the largest measur- 

 ing: length 11.3, diam. 9.5, length of aperture 9.9 mm. The rounded 

 fold of the massive columella is prominent, as in the type. 



It is hoped that living individuals can be secured. They may 

 show differences from the ordinary Physas. 



Anodontites jaliscoensis n. sp. Fig. .3. 



The shell is oblong, the alt. 55 per cent, of the length, the diam- 

 eter slightly less than one-third the length, moderately solid ; Isabella 




194 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



color, paler buff toward the beaks, a little browner toward the 

 lower margin, the epidermis thin with weak growth lines; under 

 the lens showing radial bands of festooned striae in the middle part. 

 Beaks small, somewhat worn, showing no sculpture. The interior 

 is pale Payne's gray with a rather wide matt border; stained with 

 olive-buff in the cavity toward the beaks. There is a dark, iri- 

 descent triangle at the posterior end of the hinge. 



Length 46, alt. 25.5, diam. 14 mm. 



ToUman, State of Jalisco. Prof. F. Contreras. Type No. 46,197. 



This is a longer shell than Anodonta coardata Anton, differing 

 also in external texture, the wide dull border inside, and the deep, 

 triangular "sinulus" at the end of the hinge. 



Fig. 3. — Anodontites jaliscoevsis. Natural size. 

 Nephronaias aztecorum tolimanensis new subspecies. Fig. 4. 



Differs from N. aztecorum and N. a. chayalensis by the smaller 

 size and lower form, the shell not so wide posteriorly. 



Length 43, alt. 24.3 mm. 



Length 35, alt. 19.3, diam. 11.4 mm. 



Tollman, State of Jalisco. Type No. 46,195. 



A specimen from Rio Grande, Zapotitlan, Jalisco, measures: 

 length 54, alt. 28 mm. 



Fig. 4. — Nephronaias aztecorum tolimanensis. Natural size. 




1920.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



MOLLUSCA FROM CENTRAL AMERICA AND MEXICO. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The following descriptions and notes are in continuation of those 

 published in these Proceedings for 1919, pp. 212-223. 



Further comparisons have shown that Donax mediamericana (op. 

 cit. p. 222) is merely a form of D. striata. The differences depended 

 upon are inconstant. 



Scolodonta seteki new species. Fig. ]. 



The shell is discoidal, broadly umbilicate, almost flat above, 

 thin, Isabella colored, slightly translucent. The surface is glossy, 

 finely striate above, more weakly so below. There are six narrowly 

 coiled, slowly increasing, convex whorls, the last, at the aperture, 

 nearl}^ twice the width of the preceding, rounded at periphery and 



Fig. 1. — Scolodonta zeteki. 



base, not descending in front. The umbilicus is conic, showing 

 all of the whorls. The aperture is slightly oblique, lunate, higher 

 than wide. Peristome thin and simple, the wddely separated ter- 

 minations joined by a very thin callus. 



Alt. 4, diam. 10.9 mm.; 6 whorls. Gatun. 



Alt. 3.4, diam. 9.1 mm.; 5.5 whorls. Gamboa. 



Canal Zone: Gatun (D. E. Harrower); Gamboa (James Zetek). 



Type No. 114,079, A. N. S. P. 



Readily recognized by its discoidal form. There is a very closely 

 related species in the collection from Venezuela without definite 

 locality (R. Swift coll.; No. 23,775), whitish, with the whorls a trifle 

 less closelv coiled. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Thysanophora textilis new species. Fig. 2. 



The shell is umbilicate, conoid, the height and diameter about 

 equal, pale brown. Sculpture of extremely low, subregularly spaced 

 longitudinal waves, over all a microscopic granulation produced by 

 the intersection of very minute striae and equally close spiral lines, 

 giving the appearance of a fine woven material. First 1| whorls 

 smooth. The whorls are \ery strongly convex. Suture very deeply 

 impressed. Aperture somewhat semilunar, oblique, outer Up thin 

 and simple, the columellar margin broadly dilated. 



Alt. 1.8, diam. 1.8 mm.; 4 whorls. 



Alt. 1.95, diam. 1.95 mm.; 4j whorls. 



Chama, Guatemala, A. A. Hinkley. 



The microscopic sculpture is somewhat like that of the apex of 

 Drymaeus, and unlike any Thysanophora I have examined. Whether 

 the species belongs to Thysanophora or to Pupisoma is an open 

 question, but the shape is rather more like the former. 



Fig. 2. — Thysanophora textilis. Fig. 3. — Helicina oaxacana. 



Helicina oaxacana new species. Fig, 3, 



The shell is a little wider than high, with conic spire and bluntly 

 carinate periphery, whitish, not glossy. Sculpture of fine growth- 

 striae and fine, indistinct, protractive wrinkles, visible in places only. 

 The whorls are rather strongly convex, the last having a blunt 

 median keel, convex above and at the base. The aperture is semi- 

 circular, oblique. Outer IId is moderately expanded. Columella 

 strongly concave on its ventral side, terminating in a projecting 

 tubercle. Callus small, a groove behind the columellar side. 



Alt. 4, diam. 4.5 mm.; 4f whorls. 



Pjerto Angel, Oaxaca, Mexico. C. R. Orcutt, 1910. Type No. 

 112,572, A. N. S. P. 



This species appears related to H. raresulcata of Vera Cruz, but 

 besides the somewhat diverse sculpture it differs by the angular 

 periphery. The same character differentiates it easily from other 

 small species of the region. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



Eutrochatella microdina chryseis (Tristr.). 



Two specimens from Chama measm-e: Alt. 4.2, diam. 3.83 mm., 

 and Alt. 3.55, diam. 3.45 mm., respectively. 



The color is barium yellow or between that and amber yellow. 

 The size is about that given for E. microdina, but the proportions 

 are between microdina, in which the alt. and diam. are 4 mm., and 

 chryseis, alt. 4, diam. 3 mm. Perhaps chryseis may better be ranked 

 as a subspecies of E. ynicrodina. 



In this connection it may be noted that Wagner in his mono- 

 graph places microdina in both Eutrochatella (p. 138) and Helicina 

 (p. 318). The species described at p. 318 is certainly not Morelet's 

 species, which has been figured from author's specimens by Fischer 

 and Crosse. 



E. microdina, of which I have three from Morelet, is covered 

 with excrement when aUve. It is paler than chryseis, with the 

 spire slightly lower, tapering with a wider angle, as Fischer and 

 Crosse have pointed out. 



E. simpsoni Ancey, from Utila Island, Honduras, is closely related, 

 but the whorls project more prominently at the periphery, and the 

 size is smaller. One of the original lot was figured in these Proceed- 

 ings 1903, pi. 49, fig. 4. 



These three forms belonging to the subgenus Pyrgodomus Crosse 

 and Fischer, are now for the first time brought together. 



COCHLIOPA Stimpsoii. 



As this genus has doul^led in number of species since the publi- 

 cation of the "Biologia Centrali-Americana" a catalogue of the 

 species may be of use: 



Cochliopa riograndensis Pils. & Ferr. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1906, p. 171, pi. 9, figs. 10-13. Nautilus, XXIII, 

 p. 99. 



Rio Grande (Ferriss and Pilsbry) to the Panuco River tributaries 



(Hinkley). 



Cochliopa compacta Pils, 



Nautilus, XXIII, Jan. 1910, p. 99, pi. 9, figs. 4. 5. 

 Choy Riv^er, State of San Luis Potosi (Hinkley). 



Cochliopa picta Pils. 



Nautilus, XXIII, Jan. 1910, p. 100, pi. 9, figs. 1, 2. 



Choy and Ganina Rivers, State of San Luis Potosi (Hinkley). 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Cochliopa guatemalensis (:\Iorelet) 



Valvata guatemalensis Morelet, Testacea Novissima, etc., II, 1851, p. 22. 



Fischer and Crosse, Miss. Sci. Mex., Moll. II, p. 302, pi. 48, figs. 2-26; 



pi. 50, figs. 1-16. 

 Cochliopa guatemalensis (Morel.) v. Martens, Biologia, p. 428. 



Rio Michatoj^a near Istapa, southern Guatemala. 



Cochliopa rowelli (Tryon). 



Amnicola rowelli Tryon, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1863, p. 147, pi. 1, figs. 8, 9. 



Cochliopa rowelli Tryon, Stimpson, Smithsonian Misc. Coll. No. 201, 1865, 

 p. 50. W. G. Binney, Land and Freshwater Shells of N. A., Ill, p. 73, 

 figs. 144. Pilsbrv, Nautilus XIX, 1905, p. 91. J. Powell, Nautilus, XX, 

 p. 10. 



Panama (W. Newcomb); Rio Matasnillo, Las Sabanas, Panama 

 (J. Zetek). 



This species has been omitted from works on Central American 

 mollusks because it was reported from California by the Rev. J. 

 Rowell, who collected the original specimens. No other Californian 

 conchologist has found it in the places he mentioned, but it has been 

 taken in Panama by Dr. Wesley Newcomb many years ago, and 

 recently by Mr. James Zetek. There can be no reasonable doabt 

 that Mr. Rowell was mistaken in the locality, and really picked it 

 up on his way to California by the Panama route. 



Cochliopa tryoniana Pils. 



Nautilus, IV, 1890, p. 52. Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1891, p. 331, pi. 15, fig. 12. 

 Biologia, p. 428, pi. 33, figs. 9-9c. 



Western Nicaragua, southwestern Costa Rica. 



Cochliopa trochulus Martens. 



Biologia, p. 429, pi. 23, fig. 7. 



Southwestern Costa Rica (Pittier and Biolley) to Panama (James 

 Zetek). 



Cochliopa infundibulum Martens. 

 Biologia, p. 429, pi. 23. fig. 3. 



Guatemala. 



Another related species was taken at Esmeralda, Rio Dulce, 

 Guatemala, by Mr. Hinkley. This, I understand, will soon be de- 

 scribed, making in all twelve species of Cochliopa. 



Cochliopa hinkleyi new species. Fig. 4. 



The shell is minute, planorhoid, with a very wide, shallow um- 

 bilicus and a slightly concave spire. Color brownish corneous. The 

 three whorls are oval in section, the last descending slowly and at 

 the end, only very shortly in contact with the preceding. Sculp- 

 ture of numerous subequal, rather sharp spiral threads separated by 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. • 199 



wider intervals, a narrow plain band below the suture and a wider 

 one within the umbilicus. The aperture is slightly oblique, rounded- 

 oval, the peristome very shortly adnate in adults (or sometimes 

 very shortly free, continuous). 

 Alt. 0.75, diam. 1.75 mm. 



Fig. 4. — Cochliopa hinkleyi. 



Lake Izabal near Jocolo, Guatemala, A. A. Hinkley. 



With the sculpture of C. guatemalensis, this species has the shape 

 of a small Planorbis of the parvus group. In most adult shells the 

 inner whorls are eroded away, leaving a hole through the center of 

 the disc, as in the right hand figure. Sometimes the last whorl is 

 shortly free, as in the lower figm-e. 



Cochliopa minor new species. Fig. 5. 



The shell is depressed, umbilicate (the umbilicus rapidl}^ enlarging 

 in the last whorl, contained five times in the diameter), soHd, very 

 pale brownish. The spire is very low conic. The first of the four 

 whorls is smooth ; spiral ridges set in on the second ; on the last there 

 arc about 23 of these ridges, nearly equal, and a little narrow^er 

 than the concave intervals; the latter showing microscopic growth- 

 lines and traces of fine spirals in some places. The last whorl is 

 rounded peripherally, and descends slightly to the aperture. Aper- 

 ture is strongly oblique, rounded. Peristome blunt, the margins 

 joined by a heavy parietal callus. 



Alt. 1.2, diam. 2.1 mm.; 4 whorls. 



Cochliopa minor. 



Polvon, Nicaragua. Type and paratypes No. 58,286, A. N. S. P., 

 collected by the McNeil Expedition. 




200 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May-Oct., 



These specimens were formerly identified by the writer as C. 

 guatemalensis (Morelet). The latter is much larger, diameter 3.5 

 mm., and came from the Michatoya River near Istopa, in southern 

 Guatemala. 



The teeth of the radula have denticles according to the formula 

 -^n^, 2.1.3, 13, CO . Those of the outer uncinus are very minute, 

 not clearly seen. The lateral tooth has the boss and socket structure 

 of the broad body, as in many other Amnicolidae. 



Cochliopa izabal new species. Fig. 6. 



The shell is conic, umbilicate (umbiUcus narrow, rapidly widen- 

 ing in the last half whorl), rather thin; very pale brownish-gray; 

 smooth except for faint traces of spiral striae, a little stronger near 

 the umbilicus and sometimes on the penult whorl. The spire is 

 ele\ated, the early whorls eroded. The whorls are strongly con- 



i^y 



Fig. 6. — Cochliopa izabal. 



vex, the last everywhere rounded. The aperture is moderately 

 oblique, angular above, otherwise rounded. The outer lip is thin; 

 columella concave, thickened, continued in a callus across the pari- 

 etal wall. 



Alt. 1.75, diam. 1.9 mm. Type, fig. 5 a, h. 



Alt. 1.7, diam. 2.15 mm. Fig. 5 c, d. 



Alt. 1.85, diam. '1.5 mm. Fig. 5 e. 



Lake Izabal near Jocolo, Guatemala. 




[1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



The nearly smooth form is selected as typical because it pre- 

 dominates in the lot collected. In some examples no spiral sculpture 

 is visible; others are sUghtly to distinctly striate. The spire is 

 always eroded, even in the smallest taken, diameter 1.3 mm., of 3 

 whorls (fig. 5/), t3ut the summit would be obtuse if perfect, the 

 early whorls increasing the shell rapidly in diameter. At this stage 

 it has the normal shape of Cochlwpa. Later the whorls descend 

 more rapidly, giving it a somewhat Amnicoloid outline. Fig. 5e 

 represents the narrowest specimen found. 



Mutation 'per striata (Fig. 7). Occurring with the smooth and 

 moderately striate specimens there are a few having many strong 

 spiral threads at all post-embryonic stages of growth, as in C. guate- 

 malensis. The largest specimens are of this kind. Alt. 2.7, diam. 

 2.75 mm. 



This species differs conspicuously from C. guatenialensis (Morel.) 

 by its elevated spire. A large series was collected. 



Fig. 7. — Cochliopa izabal mut. perstriata. 



Names Applied to Pachychilus. 



Pachychilus I. and H. C. Lea, Proc. Zool. Soc. London 1850, p. 179, 

 for P. cummingii Lea [ = graphium Morel.]. Not Pachychila 

 Eschscholtz, Zoologischer Atlas, 4tes Heft, 1831, p. 5 (Coleop- 

 tera) . 



Cercimelania Fischer and Crosse, Mus. Sci. an Mex., Moll. terr. et 

 Fluv., ii, p. 327, 1892, type PAiehmanni Phil. 



Glyptomelania F. and C, op. cit. p. 328, type P. glaphyrus Morel. 



Oxymelania F. and C, op. cit. p. 328, type P. schiedeanus Phil. 



Sphaeromelania Rovereto, Atti della Societa Ligustica di Sci. Nat. e 

 Geogr., X, 1899, p. 109, new name for Pachychilus Lea. 



The name to be used for this genus depends upon whether Pachy- 

 chilus and Pachychila are considered to be different names. They 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



are of course of identical derivation; so are Louis and Louise, Francis 

 and Frances, which serve very well. Until there is a definite ruling 

 by the International Commission, it may be as well to continue 

 to use the familiar Pacliychilus. 



Those who consider -us and -a names identical can adopt Cerci- 

 melania, type liehmanni Phil., proposed as a subgenus of Pachy- 

 chilus. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



NEW LAND SHELLS. 



BY E. G. VANATTA. 

 Odontosagda havanensis new species. PI. VI, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell small, thin, opaque, pinkish grey; apex obtuse, rather large, 

 and smooth; spire depressed conic, composed of four and one half 

 slowly increasing, vertically striate whorls; suture moderately deep; 

 last whorl obtusely angular above the periphery, not descending 

 in front; base obtusely conic, with a wide, perspective, well-like 

 umbilicus. The surface of the base is provided with irregular in- 

 cremental striae, and under a strong lens showing spaced spiral 

 striae. Aperture lunate; peristome sharp, evenly arcuate, within 

 the lip provided with one large white tooth in the basal region below 

 the periphery, and a smaller white tooth near the base of the narrow 

 columella. 



Alt. .77, diam. 1.25, alt. of aperture .42, diam. .51 mm. 



Picked from red earth collected under bushes in front of the 

 Country Club at Havana, Cuba, by liOuis H. Bregy in March, 1920. 



The type is tray number 46,077 in the collection of The Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



This species is smaller than Odontosagda hillei (Gundl.) ; 0. abhoiti 

 Van. is larger and less angular near the periphery; and 0. hlandi 

 (Weinl.) is more elevated. 



This new Odontosagda was associated with Praticolella griseola 

 (Pfr.), which has not been reported from Cuba before; also Vol- 

 videns ivichostoma (Pfr.), Urocoptis poeyana (Orb.), Guppya gund- 

 lachi (Pfr.), Caecilioides gund'lachi (Pfr.), and Ennea bicolor Hutton. 



Zonitoides bregyi new species. PI. VI, figs. 6, 7, 8. 



Shell small, thin, translucent, corneus, shining, apex smooth, 

 rather acute; spire low-conic, suture moderately deep; whorls about 

 four, sculptured wdth irregular incremental striae, and under a strong 

 lens showing fine undulated spiral lines; periphery evenly arcuate; 

 base convex, provided with a deep umbilicus, surface shining, show- 

 ing a few growth lines, and under a strong lens fine undulated spirals 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



may be seen; aperture serailunate; peristome thin; columella slightly 

 reflexecl; parietal wall thin. 



Alt. 1.3, diam. 1.88, alt. of aperture .75, diam. .88 mm. 



Picked from leaf mould collected at the Costa Mine, about 15 

 miles from Bueicito, Prov. Oriente, Cuba, by Louis H. Bregy in 

 March, 1920. 



The type is in the cabinet of The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, being tray number 46,089. 



This species has narrower whorls and smaller umbilicus than 

 Zonitoides maya Pils.; Z. 'paracusis Bkr. is smaller; and Striatura 

 neomexicana Pils. has a wider umbilicus, fewer whorls, is more de- 

 pressed, and has a duller surface. 



Caecilioides domingensis new species. PI. VI, flg. 15. 



Shell small, subcylindrical, translucent corneus; apex obtuse; spire 

 high, composed of four and one half moderately convex whorls; 

 suture rather deep; surface shining, sculptured with a few irregular 

 incremental striae; base convex, imperforate; aperture about one- 

 third the altitude of the shell, oval, narrow above and broader below; 

 lip acute, slightly arcuate; basal hp convex; columella truncate, 

 comparatively thick, concave; parietal wall nearly straight; parietal 

 callus thin. 



Alt. 2.27, diam. .79, alt. of apertui-e .75, diam. .54 mm. 



The types are tray number 44,654 in the Academy's collection, 

 and were picked from earth collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott, one mile 

 northwest of Sanchez, Santo Domingo. 



This species has a deeper suture, more convex whorls, and a more 

 obtuse apex than Caecilioides consobrina Orb. 



Opisthosiphon maynardi new species. PI. VI, figs. 0, 10, 11, 13. 



Shell conical, thin, opaque, reddish brown above and greyish- 

 yellow below, and a white line composed of sharp points at the 

 suture; apex truncate, widely perforate, provided with a bluish 

 plug of shell matter in the end of the decollated whorl; spire high, 

 conic, composed of nearly four convex whorls; suture deep, acutely 

 dentate; the last whorl free from the penultimate whorl near the 

 aperture and again united to it by the parietal callus; last whorl 

 evenly arcuate, provided with two slightly thickened, white, spiral 

 Hues near, and four others visible within, the umbilicus. The sur- 

 face of the shell has a dull silk-like sculpture, and many very indis- 

 tinct vertical costae, about sixty on the penultimate Avhorl; body 

 whorl nearly smooth near the aperture; aperture entire, wide, ellip- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



tical, with a raised, smooth rim in advance of the broadly expanded, 

 flat, white Hp, which is provided with several, slightly raised, con- 

 centric lamellae; outer lip forming at the suture a recurved hollow 

 tube connecting the deep suture openly with the interior of the aper- 

 ture by a small round pore. The broadly expanded basal and col- 

 umellar lips showing faint white thickenings at the ends of the above- 

 mentioned spirals; parietal hps expanded into a broad flat plate 

 with its edge attached to the body-whorl, the concentric lamellae 

 upon its surface are interrupted in an oblique line above the pore 

 in the aperture, forming a small bay in the upper edge near the outer 

 lip. Operculum, thick, calcareous, paucispiral, smooth within, com- 

 posed of about three rapidly increasing volutions; nucleus below 

 the middle; outer surface with a deep spiral groove with a raised 

 irregular edge arising near the nucleus, continuing along the suture 

 and completely around the outer edge of the operculum; the surface 

 is also covered with coarse raised lamellae in the direction of the lines 

 of growth. 



Alt. 11.2, diam. 6.3, alt. of aperture 5.0, diam. 4.4 mm. 



The types are in the cabinet of the Academy, being tray number 

 44,488, collected at Nassau, New Providence, Bahama Islands, by 

 Mr. C. J. Maynard in 1888. 



One specimen has the apex almost entire and is composed of 

 about seven whorls; another (fig. 11) which is not quite mature, has 

 a broad open bay at the upper angle of the aperture disconnecting 

 the parietal wall and outer lips, and lacks the raised rim about 

 the inner edge of the mouth; some specimens are uniform greyish 

 yellow. 



This species differs from Opisthosiphon hohamensis (Shutt.) by 

 being smoother, having weaker, more spaced vertical costae, finer 

 crenulations at the suture, and a wider expanded lip; 0. moreletiana 

 (Pet.) has stronger costae, and the aperture is free from the body 

 whorl; 0. excurrens (Gundl.) is more strongly costate, obese and 

 cyHndrical. 



Helicina abbotti new species. PI. VI, figs. 12, 14. 



Shell small, globose, moderately thick, opaque yellowish corneus; 

 apex obtuse; spire elevated, conic, composed of four arcuate whorls; 

 suture moderately impressed, not descending at the aperture; per- 

 iphery convex; surface smooth, shining, with a few oblique lines 

 and incremental striae crossed by very indistinct spiral lines \isible 

 under a lens. The base is rather flat, carinate about the edge of 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



the deep umbilical rimation; aperture subtriangular; outer lip 

 slightly thickened, narrowly reflexed, descending in a nearly straight 

 hne to the convex periphery; basal lip sinuous, narrowly reflexed; 

 columella thick, concave at the edge of the umbilical rimation; 

 parietal callus broad, heavy, linguiform, and granulate; operculum 

 not found. 



Alt. 2.1, diam. 2.8, alt. of aperture 1.1, diam. 1.4 mm. 



The types are in the collection of the Academy, being tray num- 

 ber 44,370, and were picked from earth collected one mile northwest 

 of Sanchez, Santo Domingo, Hayti Island, by Dr. W. L. Abbott, 

 during February, 1919. 



This species differs from Helicina (Artecallosa) continua (Gundl.) 

 Poey by having broader parietal callus, smaller umbilical rimation, 

 a more sinuous basal lip, a broader columella, a more obtuse spire, 

 and is smaller and more globose. 



Stoastoma domingensis n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 4, 5. 



Shell small, conic, thin, opaque, greyish white; apex rather obtuse, 

 smooth; spire high, conic, slightly concave sided, composed of five 

 and one half convex whorls; body whorl contracted and free near 

 the aperture; suture impressed, descending in front; periphery 

 evenly convex; base convex; umbilicus minute. The surface of the 

 shell is sculptured fine spiral hair lines, of which nine are visible 

 on the penultimate whorl, about nineteen on the bodj^ whorl, and 

 sixteen on the base, the growth lines are very indistinct; last whorl 

 provided with a smooth band near the aperture; aperture semi- 

 lunate; peristome continuous; outer lip evenly arcuate; basal lip 

 acute; columella arcuate, slightly thickened; parietal wall nearly 

 straight, rather thick, free from the penultimate whorl. 



Alt. 2.47, diam. 2.26, alt. of aperture .89, diam. 1.04 mm. 



The type is in the collection of the Academy, being tray number 

 44,372, picked from soil collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott, one mile 

 northwest of Sanchez, Santo Domingo, Hayti Island. 



This species is larger and more conic than Stoastoma (Lindsleya) 

 leanum Ad., which it resembles in the shape of the aperture and 

 sculpture. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920 



PLATE VI. 



VANATTA: NEW LAND SHELLS. 






*, 




1920.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



NOTES ON ARACHNOIDISCUS. 

 BY SARAH P. MONKS. 



While studying specimens of Hemiqjtychus (Arachnoidiscus) , which 

 are extremely abundant in many San Pedro, California, tidepools, 

 an unusual form was found which may be called a variety of Arach- 

 7ioidisciis ehrenbergii . 



Instead of being circular ^\^th raj^s of equal length, it is blunt- 

 cuneiform, with sides compressed and two sets of short rays. In 

 all but shape and rays, even in various sizes and deformations, it 

 is a true Arachnoidiscus, and I have called it A. ehrenbergii var. 

 cuneatus. 



It is quite abundant, thirty specimens being found in thirty micro- 

 mounts. 



The change of shape is no doubt partly due to overcrowding, for 

 although there are miles of tide-pools and millions of sea-plants to 

 choose from, the diatoms are often on some plants in almost in- 

 credible abundance. 



These ahen epiphytes crowd on many different algae — on stiff 

 Gelidium, stony Corallines, and even on the flexible stems of other 

 plants. Sometimes in shallow tidepools nearer land which are 

 exposed to wdnter cold, or summer heat, during very low tide, the 

 diatoms are killed, and then the host plant is gray-coated like sleet- 

 crusted trees in winter. But when alive the brown of the diatoms 

 entirely covers the stem of the host 'like a shiny varnish, and the 

 only chance the burdened alga has is for terminal growth. When 

 the brown film dies, on exposure to the sun or the dry air, the whole 

 colony shows the green of chlorophyll, and this green remains for 

 years; then when nothing remains but skeletons the effect is gray- 

 ish white and the diatoms still stick to the host plant. Not only 

 are the algae burdened with "an innumerable host" of Arachnoidis- 

 cus, but there are co-dwellers, members of ten or more other genera. 



The habits of these diatoms may account for the many and vari- 

 ous irregularities of Arachnoidiscus. Species of Isthmia hang in 

 festoons and swing away from the alga's stems^ as do some Biddulpha 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



also; acicular species like Lichmophora and Climacosphenia shoot 

 out at many angles, thus leaving Arachnoidiscus and other sedentary 

 forms to bear the burden of growth-pressure. This intensive growth 

 pressure in the struggle for existence in the overcrowded sea-tene- 

 ment may be responsible for the many deformations of diatoms 

 and the forming of Arachnoidiscus ehrenbergii var. cuneatus. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 209 



IRON ORE ARTIFACTS FROM ALABAMA. 

 BY H. NEWELL WARDLE. 



The attention of the writer was recently called to a series of arti- 

 facts of peculiar form and unusual material — all surface finds, from 

 Blount County, Alabama. Their owner and discoverer, Mr. E. S. 

 Ginnane, a local private collector, being unable to account for their 

 singular form, and noting no duplicates on display in the great 

 museums of our cities, kindly sent a selection of the pieces to The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and, these prov- 

 ing so interesting, followed them with the loan of his entire series 

 for purposes of study. 



The material is iron ore of varying grade — some hematite, some 

 limonite. Many of the pieces, taken by themselves, might be con- 

 sidered as implements in the process of blocking out, but, brought 

 into relation to the series, show a definiteness of purpose that calls 

 for interpretation. 



In general, the outline is amygdaloid, varying to oblong, with one 

 plane surface and one more or less convex. The plane surface, and 

 occasionally the lateral surfaces also, show signs of rubbing or pol- 

 ishing. Though some pieces thus approach the well-known hoat- 

 stone in form,i neither material nor finish permits their assignment 

 to that class, and the objects are obviously tools. Their narrow 

 ends are frequently flattened, squared or notched. This last pecu- 

 liarity was the first to attract attention. Taken in conjunction 

 with their relatively great weight, it seemed to throw them into the 

 group of sinkers. But why the notch should have been placed on 

 the ends, in preference to the sides, as in all recognized sinkers, 

 remained a disconcerting problem. 



A second possible explanation was their employment as weaving 

 weights where a slender weight would have its advantage among 

 the close-hung strands. Not all the pieces are notched, however, 

 and, of those which are, some have the groove much shallower 



^A boat stone of ferruginous rock or limonite, resembling the specimen shown 

 in Plate VII, fig. 1 was found by Mr. Clarence B. Moore, in the Mound near 

 Chandler Landing, Prairie County, Arkansas. Moore, "Antiquities of the St. 

 Francis, White, and Black Rivers, Arkansas." Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila- 

 delphia, Vol. XIY, p. 346. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



(Plate VII, fig. 5), or even absent (Plate VII, figs. 2, 6, 7) at one 

 extremity. 



Judged by material alone, all might be classed as paint-stones, 

 for they are quite capable of rendering a red or red-brown paint. 

 But, in that case, why were they ground into so special a form when 

 any irregular shape would serve, as witness other specimens of 

 identical material which bear evidence of such usage and which 

 were collected from the same fields (Plate IX) ; while, on the other 

 hand, an occasional artifact, not of iron-ore but of ordinary sand- 

 stone (Plate VIII, figs. 7, 8, 9), or even of fine-grained quartzite 

 (Plate VIII, fig. 6), may offer the same general characters. 



One quality is common to all the pieces under consideration, 

 whatever their composition or their contour — namely grit. This 

 would indicate that they were hones of convenient form for the 

 dressing and finishing of small tools such as awls, needles, fish-hooks, 

 etc. Only occasionally, however, do they exhibit the grooves on 

 their flat surfaces which are attributed to the sharpening and point- 

 ing of such tools (Plate VII, fig. 10, Plate VIII, fig. 5.). Moore- 

 head, in "The Stone Age in North America,"^ figures two sandstone 

 arrow- and needle-sharpeners from North Dakota, which have the 

 form of the Alabama pieces under discussion, but are grooved from 

 end to end on the face. It may be added that two of the irregular 

 paint stones (or hones?), referred to above (Plate IX, figs. 6, 8) 

 exhibit fine striae, apparently made by such work in sharpening 

 tools, in one instance (Fig. 8), the groove having been partly ob- 

 literated by later grinding. 



This usage leaves unexplained the notch upon the ends. Obvi- 

 ously it could not have served for the attachment of a thong to pre- 

 vent loss for the notch is perpendicular to the flat surface of the 

 tool, so that a thong would have traversed its working plane in all 

 cases save in one piece, a very crude one, showing little use — an 

 unthinkable attachment. Such is believed to have been the pur- 

 pose of the groove which lies along the periphery of the beautiful 

 boat-shaped hones and tool trimmers of Neolithic Scandinavia.* 



The only hematite known to the writer, which appears to belong 

 to this class, is in the Andover collection, and is described by Moore- 

 head,"* as "a grooved hematite object, the groove extending around 



2 Vol. II, p. 314. 

 'Nilsson, The "Primitive Inhabitants of Scandinavia" (Nilsson on the Stone 

 Age, edited by Sir John Lubbock), pp. 14, 15, PI. I, fig. 8. 

 4 Op. cit. II, p. 306, fig. 700. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



211 



the periphery of the object." Unfortunately, it is impossilile to be 

 certain from the illustration, whether the piece is truly one of the 

 group here described. 



Actual experiment with the notched hones convinced the writer 

 that the terminal groove had served for the dressing of thong or 

 sinew, the tool being held comfortably in the closed hand, and the 

 thong drawn through the hand and over the end of the stone, cutting 

 more or less deeply into its end and the adjoining faces. This 

 method of handling tends to slant the notch to the left — for right- 

 handed workers. One specimen (Plate VII, fig. 7; text fig. 1) pre- 

 sents, in addition to its notched end, a series of five finer striae 

 across one edge of the hone, apparently cut in by a slender sinew 

 thread. 





Fig 1. — Sinew scored edge of 

 PI. VII. fi?. 7. 



Fig 2.— Basal view of PI. VII, 

 fig. 8. 



In addition to the hones already described, there are, in the col- 

 lection certain irregular pieces which call for special mention. One 

 little hone (Plate VII, fig. 8; text fig. 2), w^hich approaches in form 

 the Antilhan Zeiyii or "cocked-hat stone," has been drilled near one 

 edge, probably for the attachment of a cord, which passed in a 

 shallow groove over the edge of the artifact. The working down 

 of the face through use has almost obliterated the groove, and 

 possibly, by wear on the cord, accounts for the loss of the tool. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Another hone (Plate IX, fig. 9), likewise of oval outline on the flat 

 face, is hollowed upon its opposite aspect, so that it comfortably fits 

 the thumb when the piece is turned edgewise in order to use the 

 lateral surfaces for abraiding — as has been freely done. 



One of the most interesting tools is roughly quadrangular in out- 

 line (Plate IX, fig. 4). Evidence of long and hard service is ap- 

 parent on one narrow side, as well as on the irregularly convex face 

 and in the deep concavity of its opposite aspect. The curve of this 

 hollow face is such as to suggest the spear-shaft and the paddle 

 handle, or the curved back of a bow, as objects which it had served 

 to finish, but the delicate friction lines, traversing lengthwise the 

 wide groove, suggest a more resisting material than wood. Such 

 a tool as this might have worked the bowl of a stone pipe or the 

 handle of that monolithic axe from Moundville, Alabama. 



Another of these artifacts is a little truncated pyramid (Plate IX, 

 fig. 10), its narrow base worn off diagonally, the angles of its long 

 sides sharply defined, and the apex broken away so as to leave in 

 doubt the problem of its possible pendent form. 



Lastly attention may be called to three pieces of worked hematite 

 (Umonite?) (Plate IX, figs. 1, 2, 3.) Upon the first (Plate IX, fig. 1) 

 a mass of limonite crystals, the primitive artificer has just begun to 

 work, as shown by a single rubbed surface. The second (Plate IX, 

 fig. 2) has been roughly blocked into circular f^rm, and the flat base 

 and convex upper aspect offer patches of po aed surface; while 

 in the third (Plate IX, fig. 3) the grinding and polishing has pro- 

 gressed farther so that the object takes on the form of the well- 

 known hematite cone. This piece was however far from finished, 

 as attested by the still irregular contours and the rough depressions 

 which the grinding down process has not yet reached. 



To sum up: certain iron ore objects of amygdaloid or oblong 

 shape, which, as a group, fall neither into the class of pendent orna- 

 ments, nor of weights used in fishing or weaving, are here identified 

 as probable hones and sinew-dressing tools of a special form. It is 

 hoped that the present study offers not only the description of a 

 hitherto undescribed type of stone artefact, but its interpretation 

 in terms of aboriginal life. 



Explanation of Plates VII, VIII, IX. 



The numbers on the specimens refer to Mr. Ginnane's catalogue. All figures 

 are shown natural size. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE VII. 



WARDLE : IRON ORE ARTIFACTS. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE Vin. 



"WARDLE : IRON ORE ARTIFACTS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE IX. 



WARDLE: IRON ORE ARTIFACTS. 





1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 213 



Plate VII. — Artifacts of hematite and limonite. 

 Figs. 1, 2, 8.— Hones. 



Figs. 3, 11. — Lower aspect of planoconvex hones. 

 Figs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9. — Sinew dressers and hones combined. 

 Fig. 10. — Tool sharpener and dresser. 



Plate VIII. — Iron ore objects and homologues of gritty stone. 

 Figs. 1, 5. — Hones of iron ore. 



Fig. 2. — Iron-ore hone and sinew-dresser combined. 

 Figs. 2, 4. — Sinew dressers of iron-ore. 

 Fig. 9. — Sinew-dresser of sandstone. 

 Figs. 6, 7, 8. — Hones of quartzite and sandstone. 



Plate IX. — Irregular artifacts of hematite and limonite. 

 Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Stages of making hematite cones. 

 Fig. 4. — Concave rubbing stone, shaft-dresser. 

 Figs. 5, 8. — Tool sharpeners. 

 Fig. 6. — Heart-shaped artefact. 

 Figs. 7, 10. — Pyramidal rubbing stones. 

 Fig. 9. — Rubbing-stone socketed for thumb. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



RECORDS AND DESCRIPTIONS OF BRAZILIAN ORTHOPTERA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The records and descriptions in the present paper have been ac- 

 cumulating for approximately five years during the study of more 

 representative regional series of Brazihan Orthoptera. Aside from 

 the geographic data here presented, the taxonomic and variational 

 information thus sifted out and here brought together is of very 

 considerable value. 



Two hundred and nineteen specimens are discussed, representing 

 one hundred and two species belonging to seventy-six genera, of 

 which seventeen species and one genus are described as new. In 

 addition it has been necessary to give one new generic name. 



The material treated belongs almost wholly to The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the Hebard Collection, which 

 is on deposit at the Academy, the United States National Museum, 

 the Museum of Comparative Zoology, and Cornell University, 

 to the authorities of which institutions the author is indebted for 

 the opportunity to study these collections. These institutions are 

 indicated through the following pages by their respective initials. 



BLATTIDAE. 



ECTOBIINAE. 



Anaplecta replicata Saussiu-e and Zelintner. 



1893. Anaplecta replicata Saussiire and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 

 I, p. 2.5, pi. IV, fig. [Pernambuco, Brazil.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 One male, three females. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens are identical with material from Igarape-assu, 

 State of Para, Brazil, 



Anaplecta chrysoptera Shelford. 



. 1906. Anaplecta chrysoptera Shelford, Trans. Entom. Soc. London, 1906, 

 p. 247, pi. XVI, fig. 7. [Amazons.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. September, 1883. (A. Koebele; 



"on cotton".) One male. [U. S. N. M.] 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



This specimen does not fully accord with Shelford's description 

 and figure, having but ten instead of thirteen costal veins to the 

 wangs and no blackish color on the palpi. In other features the 

 individual fully agrees with the description and it seems desirable 

 to tentatively refer it to chrysoptera. 



PSEUDOMOPINAE. 



Ischnoptera amazonica Rebn. 



1916. Ischnoptera amazonica Rehn. Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 

 225, pi. XIV, figs. 4 to 8. [Igarape-assu, Para, Brazil (type); Para, 

 Brazil; Independencia, Parahyba, Brazil; Ceara, Brazil; Piunuha to Con- 

 cha Huaya, Peru.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. February 18, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 One male. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen has been compared with the typical material. The 

 present record extends the range of this species a short distance 

 south along the coast. 



Neoblattella conspersa (Bruimer). 



1865. P}i[yllodromia] conspersa Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 106. [Bra- 

 - zii.l 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January-February, 1883. (A. 

 Koebele.) Five males, one female. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens are somewhat paler than the average of a large 

 series from the state of Para, with the usual pronotal pattern greatly 

 reduced, faintly indicated or even absent. In all the tegminal punc- 

 tulations are indicated although never strongly so. 



■ EPILAMPRIXAE. 



Notolampra gibba (Thunberg). 



"1826. Blntta gibha Thunberg, Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., X, p. 

 279." 



Pernambuco, State of Pernambuco. January 2, 1883. (A. Koe- 

 bele.) One male. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen shows no trace of the median brown pronotal line 

 mentioned by Saussure in describing the synonymous lucida. 



All the previous exact records given for the species are from Bahia. 



Phoraspis picta (Drury). 



17S2. [Blaita] picta Drury. Ilhist. Exot. Entom., Ill, p 76, ind. (2), pi. 50, 

 fig. 3. [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Santa Catharina. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj'^-Oct., 



Epilampra fallax Saussure and Zehntner. 



1893. Epilampra fallax Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 

 I, p. 64. pi. IV, fig. 36. [Santa Catharina. Brazil.] 



Santa Catharina. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



Roga Nova, Serra do Mar, State of Parana. One female. [A, 



N.S. P.] 



These specimens are typical of the species. 



Epilampra imitatrix Saussure and Zehntner. 



1893. Epilampra imitatrix Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 

 Orth., I, p. 63. [Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. October. One female. [U. S. 

 N. M.] 



This specimen differs from the description in several features, but 

 as the species was based on the male sex these are probably only 

 sexual. The tegmina are somewhat shorter and the pronotum of 

 smaller size, but the other characters are in accord. The supra-anal 

 plate is narrowly divided mesad. 



This is the first record of the species with exact locality. 



Epilampra latifrons Saussure and Zehntner. 



1893. Epilampra latifrons Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 

 Orth., I, p. 66. [South America ] 



• Pernambuco, State of Pernambuco. (J. C. Fletcher.) One male. 

 [M. C. Z.] 



This specimen, which is the first of the species recorded with exact 

 locality, fully agrees with the description except in a few features 

 which appear to us to be matters of variation or interpretation. The 

 interspace between the eyes is exceptionally broad for the male sex, 

 but is not quite twice as wide as the depth of the eye ; the intercalated 

 area is represented by a slight but distinct fold, while the supra-anal 

 plate is sub-bilobate instead of having its margin entire as described. 

 In every other respect the specimen is in exact accordance with the 

 description, and differs from the related azteca, with which it has 

 been compared, in the differences given by the original describers. 



Epilampra atriventris Saussiu-e. 



1895. EYpilampra] atriventris Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, III, p. 357. 

 [Brazil.] 



Santa Catharina. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This specimen fully agrees with the original description except 

 that the tegmina are slightly longer (22.6 mm.) and the supra-anal 

 plate is not minutely incised mesad. The latter features is probably 

 one which varies on account of the, at most, very delicate character 

 of that area of the plate. This is the first record of the species with 

 exact locahty. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



PANCHLORINAE. 



Panchlora prasina Burmeister. 



1838. Planchloni] prasina Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 507. [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Piquete, State of Sao Paulo. January, 1901. One female, 



[A. N. S. P.] 



Santa Catharina. Two females. [Hebard Cln.] 



These appear to be the first exact records published since the 



original description of the species. One of the Santa Catharina 



females is smaller than the other individuals of this exceptionally 



large species. 



BLABERINAE. 



Petasodes dominicana (Burmeister). 



1838. M[onachoda] dominicana Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, Abth. 

 II, pt. 1, p. 514. [Brazil.] 



Santa Catharina. One male. [A. N. S. P.] 



River Una, forty-six miles south of Bahia, State of Bahia. (A. 



de Lacerda.) One male. [Hebard Cln.] 



Monastria biguttata (Thunberg). 



' "1826. Blatta biguttata Thunberg, Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., X, 

 p. 276, pi. 14." 



Teffe (Ega), State of Amazonas. (Roulin; Thayer Expedition.) 

 One male. [Hebard Cln.] 



Rio dos Macacos, State of Para. (Thayer Expedition.) One 

 male. [M. C. Z.] 



Rio de Janeiro, State of Rio de Janeiro. (Thayer Expedition.) 

 One male. [M. C. Z.] 



We have not been able to examine the original description of this 

 species, volume ten of the "St. Petersburg Memoirs" being lacking 

 in our set of that pubhcation. However, the specimens before us 

 accord with the interpretation of the species presented by Serville 

 and Brunner, and have the cephahc margin of the pronotum lined 

 with fuscous and the costal margin of the tegmina without any con- 

 trasted pale edging. The specimens previously recorded by us as 

 this species, from Yaguarasapa, Paraguay^ and Misiones, Argentina,^ 

 together wdth two other males now^ before us from Puerto Cantera 

 (X, 1913; C. Schrottky) and Alto Parana (II, 1914; C. Schrottky), 

 Paraguay, belong to the form called siinilis by Serville. This has 

 the cephalic margin of the pronotum deep ochraceous-orange and 



1 Entom. INews, XXII, p. 248 (1911). 



2Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 293, (1913); Ibid., 1915, p. 275, (1915). 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.,.. 



the costal margin of the tegmina largely edged with the same. 

 Whether similis should be considered a distinct species or merely a 

 chromatomorph of higuttata we cannot say at present, an uncertainty 

 shared with Brunner and Saussure, but it is our opinion that, ten- 

 tatively at least, it should be considered worthy of specific rank. 

 Aside from the color features the female appears to differ in the teg- 

 mina being longer than in higuttata, and of sufficient length to cover 

 half of the dorsum of the abdomen. All the material we have re- 

 ferable to similis is of considerably larger size than that referred to 

 higuttata, also much surpassing the measurements given in both 

 of the original descriptions, but this, we feel, may ]je individual or 

 geographic in character. 



Monastria cassidea (Eschscholtz). 



1822. Blatta cassidea Eschscholtz, Entomographien, p. 87. [Santa Catha- 

 rina, Brazil.] 



Theresopolis, State of Santa Catharina. One female. [Mus. 

 Comp. Zool.] 



It may be necessary in the future to remove this species from the 

 genus Monastria, as there is a very great amount of difference between 

 M. higuttata, the type of Monastria, and this species. 



CORYDIINAE. 

 Euthyrrhapha pacifica (Coauebert). 



1804. Blatta pacifica Coquebert; Illustr. Inconogr. Insect., Ill, p. 91, pi. 

 XXI, fig. 1. [Islands of the Pacific Ocean.] 



Piquete, State of Sao Paulo. One- male. [A. N. S. P.] 



PERISPHAERINAE. 



Hormetica^ scrobiculata Biirmeister. , 



1838. H[ormetica] scrobiculata Burmeister, Handb. dor Entom., II, abth.- 

 II, pt. 1, p. 512. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



Amazons. One male. [A. N. S. P.] 



As pointed out elsewhere^ we consider this name to represent a ■ 

 species well separated from H. laevigata Burmeister; with which it 

 is usually synonymized. 



^ We have recently had occasion to examine the type of Scudder's Hormetica 

 advena (Proc. Davenp. Aoad. Nat. Sci., VIII, p. 94) described from a specimen, 

 unquestionably introduced, taken at Belmont, IVIassachusetts. It is a well 

 marked species, characterized by lateral tegmina such as are found in Parahor- 

 metica, but having strongly developed tarsal arolia as in Hormetica. Its closest 

 relationship is, however, not with verrucosa as stated by Scudder, but with sah- 

 cincta Walker, from which it differs in the tegmina being lateral instead of quad- 

 rate and attingent, in the pronotal "horse-shoe" being of relatively less area, 

 less pronounced and differently colored, and in the pronotum being in general - 

 less compressed and less vaulted. Both species have shining black abdomens,, 

 margined laterad with ochraceous and the tegminal color similar. 



4 Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLIII, pp. 341-342, (1917). 




1920.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



MANTIDAE. 



ORTHODERINAE. 



Mantoida burmeisteri (Giebel). 



1862. Ch[aetaessa] burmeisteri Giebel, Zeitschr. flir die gesammt. Naturwiss., 

 XX, p. 316. [Neu Freiburg, State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. August. One male. [M. C. 



This specimen has been compared with individuals of the species 



from the Rio Salado and the Misiones, Argentina. The range of 



the insect is considerably extended to the north-westward by the 



present record. 



MANTINAE. 



Acontiothespis bimaculata (Saussiue). 



1870. Alcontistii] bimaculata Saiissure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., 

 Ill, p. 229. [Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Two males. [Hebard Cln.] 



We have compared these specimens with males from Sapucay, 



Paraguay and the Misiones and Jujuy, Argentina. 



Euryderes anisitsi Brancsik. 



1897. E[urydcrcs] anisitsi Brancsik, .Jabresh. Naturw. Ver. Trencsin. Comit., 

 • XIX-XX. p. 63, pi. I, fig. 9. [Fuerte Olympo, Paraguay.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Six males. [Hebard Cln.] 

 It was a surprise, as well as a pleasure, to recognize this previously 

 little known genus and species in the present collection. The speci- 

 mens fully agree with the original description and also, after allow- 

 ing for a certain degree of roughness in the drawing, with the figure. 

 Our specimens are all slightly larger than the original measurements, 

 several appreciably so, but it is evident there is considerable 

 individual variation in this respect. Superficially the present insect 

 bears a considerable resemblance to the African Vatid genus Danuria 

 . and allied genera, the form of the head and pronotum much suggest- 

 ing that found in the Old World group, but Euryderes is a true mem- 

 ber of the Mantinae. Its position, however, appears to be removed 

 from Coptopteryx and near Photina than the location given it by 

 Kirby in his Catalogue. While distinctly aberrant in general 

 features it would seem to us to fit more logically in a linear arrange- 

 ment between Metriomantis and Photina. 



The species was previously known only from the type locality. 



Photina brevis Rehn. 



1907. Photina brevis Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 156, figs. 

 1 and 2. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Two males. [Hebard Cln.] 




220 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.,. 



These specimens have been compared with the type of the species. 

 In this form the venation of the wing shows much individual varia- 

 tion in the number of rami of the principal veins. Both of the Goyaz 

 specimens are somewhat larger than the Sapucay individuals (type 

 and paratypes). 



The present record extends the range of the species to the north- 

 ward. 



Angela infuscata (Chopard). 



1911. Thispis infuscata Chopard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXX, p.. 

 320. [Saint Jean du Maroni and ISouveau Cbantier, French Guiana.] 



Obidos, Rio Amazon, State of Amazonas. One male. [A. N. S. 



P-] 



This specimen agrees with two cotypes of this species now in the 



Hebard Collection. The range of the form is extended southward 



into the Amazon vaUey by the present record. 



MIOPTERYGINAE. 



TRACHYMIOPTERYX^ new genus. 



This genus is nearer to Pseudomiopteryx Saussure and Eumiop- 

 teryx Giglio-Tos than any others. Its relationship to Pseudomiop- 

 teryx is much less intimate than that with Eumiopteryx, and from 

 the former the new genus can be immediately separated by the 

 absence of a frontal spine and the angulation of the latero-cephalic 

 sections of the pronotal margins. From Eumiopteryx its differences- 

 are more subtle, yet distinctly evident. The basal outline form of 

 the pronotum is much the same as in Eumiopteryx, showing, however,, 

 a slight angulation to the expansion, which is suggestive of that 

 found in Pseiulomiopteryx, but the dorsal surface has three pairs of 

 pronounced tubercles ; the vicinity of the transverse sulcus is strongly^ 

 sellate; the occipital outline is distinctly arcuate emarginate, instead 

 of subtruncate as in Eumiopteryx, and the juxta-ocular lobes are- 

 decided and rectangulate; the facial shield is deeper in proportion, 

 while the tegmina are more ample, as in Pseudomiopteryx. 



The present genus is apparently a type intermediate between the- 

 two genera with which it has been compared, but sufficiently distinct 

 to be generically recognized. 



Genotype. — T. tuberculata new species. 



Trachymiopteryx tuberculata new species. (Plate X, figs, l and 2.) 



Type. — cf ; Goyaz, State of Goyaz, Brazil. [Hebard Collection,. 

 Type no. 216.] 



^ From tgixyyq rough and Miopieryx. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Size medium (for the subfamily) ; form but little elongate. Head 

 •svith the greatest depth contained one and one-half times in the 

 greatest width across the eyes; cephalic face of occiput moderately 

 declivent mesad with a distinct but Ioav and rounded boss or swelling, 

 laterad of which are shallow, broad, depressed areas, in which the 

 antennae lay when directed caudad; occipital outhne, when seen 

 from the cephalic aspect, distinctly though not deeply arcuate- 

 emarginate, very faintly bulbous on each side immediately mesad 

 of the juxta-ocular sulci, the juxta-ocular lobes distinct, elevated, 

 slightly acute with the apices rounded; ocelh relatively large, moder- 

 ately prominent, well separated, placed in an inverted, subdepressed 

 triangle, their vicinity without a frontal production; facial shield 

 transverse, its greatest depth contained three times in the greatest 

 width; dorsal margin of shield arcuate mesad and arcuate-emarginate 

 laterad, ventrad of the antennal scrobes; ventral margin of the shield 

 arcuate-emarginate; the curve of the median section of the dorsal 

 margin continued ventro -laterad over the plate by low ridges: clypeus 

 transverse, its surface elevated in a distinct transverse ridge, highest 

 mesad : eyes prominent, inflated, in basal outhne short ovate, close 

 to the internal margin of each eye, and between it and the nearest 

 antenna and ocellus, is placed a pair of well separated tubercles, the 

 dorsal of which is more pronounced than the ventral: antennae 

 with the joints, aside from the proximal three, moniliform, the 

 proximal jointf relatively large. 



Pronotum in general form intermediate between that found in 

 Pseudomiopteryx and Eumiopteryx, the greatest width across the 

 supra-coxal expansion contained about twice in the greatest length 

 of the pronotum, which is nearly twice the least width, this being 

 situated caudad of the middle of the shaft: collar with the lateral 

 margins appreciably depressed amphate, cephahc margin relatively 

 narrowed, rounded, with a slight angle where it passes into the 

 lateral section, thence the margins are straight and obliquely diverg- 

 ing to faintly before the middle of the shaft, where there is a dis- 

 tinct obtuse-angulate projection, the margins thence to the angle 

 of the dilation divergent arcuate-emarginate ; angles of the expansion 

 obtuse, the immediate angles narrowly rounded; margins of the 

 shaft regularly narrowing from the long expansion to the point 

 of least width, thence faintly expanding to the arcuate caudal mar- 

 gin; lateral margins in the vicinity of the expansion minutely crenu- 

 late: collar occupying two-fifths of the length of the pronotum, 

 its surface with a paired median tubercle and caudad of this a pair 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct. , 



of slightly more conical tubercles: shaft at cephaUc third with a 

 median bifid tubercle, the points of which are conical, immedi- 

 ately caudad of this is a pair of widely separated, low, conical tuber- 

 cles, and about an equal distance from this pair, but on each lateral 

 face of the shaft, is a pronounced conical tubercle, caudad of which 

 and running dorso-caudad is a carinate ridge, stronger caudad, 

 and fusing with a strumose area near the caudal margin, where 

 there is a pair of elevated, longitudinally disposed projections, 

 the crests of which are serrulate; median carinulation distinct but 

 low caudad of the median paired tubercle on the collar; when seen 

 from the side the region of the expansion is distinctly sellate, and 

 the shaft less decidedly but still distinctly so. 



Tegmina four and one-third times as long as the pronotum, its 

 greatest width contained three and one-half times in the tegminal 

 length, the greatest width at the distal third: costal margin appreci- 

 ably ciliate, very briefly arcuate proximad and in distal third moder- 

 ately arcuate to the rotundato-rectangulate apex, distal margin 

 suturad of the apex broadly rounding into the sutural margin: mar- 

 ginal field coarseh^ reticulate; discoidal vein bifurcate at distal fourth; 

 median vein bifurcate at middle; ulnar vein bifurcate near the base, 

 the sutural ramus bifurcate immediatelj^ distad of the primary bifur- 

 cation, all rami of the median and ulnar veins reaching the sutural 

 margin; anal vein arcuate in proximal half, thence straight oblique; 

 axillary veins two in number, the sutural one bifurcate near its base; 

 stigma distinct, slightly oblique, involving all veins from the median 

 to the caudal ramus of the ulnar vein ; areas between all veins of the 

 discoidal field irregularly but rather openly and finely recticulate with 

 cross-veins, which are less numerous in the immediate vicinity of 

 the main veins than in the middle of the areas. Wings when in re- 

 pose surpassing the apices of the tegmina by about the length of 

 the collar of the pronotum, the apex rotundate-rectangulate : ulnar 

 vein biramose, the proximal ramus diverging near the proximal 

 third, the distal ramus diverging at about the distal third, the 

 proximal ramus separated from the distal one by a considerable 

 space, which narrows distad: discoidal field of the wing with the 

 interspaces between the veins proximad with fairly regular cross- 

 veins, which are much more oblique in some areas than in others, 

 distad the cross-veins become irregular and anastomosing, except in 

 the narrower fields where there is a general biseriate disposition. 



Abdomen with the supra-anal plate transvei'se, triangularly pro- 

 duced mesad, moderately tectate, weakly carinate mesad, the apex 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



angulate; cerci moderately surpassing the subgenital plate, subequal 

 in width, moniliforni, slightly depressed, apical joint bluntly acum- 

 inate: internal genital plates which are apparent from the dorsum, 

 lying in the hollow of the subgenital plate, are: on the right side a 

 depressed, broad, narrowing and incurved plate, the apex of which is 

 bluntly acuminate and slightly decurved; on the left and extending 

 over to the center is a very broad, strongly depressed plate, which is 

 in general obliquely subtruncate at the distal extremity and from the 

 dorso-distal portion of which arises an erect, falcate process, which is 

 curved to the left; ventrad of this plate lies a narrow, sinuato-falcate 

 titillator, the apex of which is bluntly acuminate and reaches to the 

 dextral internal plate: subgenital plate broad, depressed, saucer 

 shaped, the margin sinuato-arcuate when seen from the dorsum, 

 styles represented sinistrad by a strong acuminate appendage, the 

 dextral equivalent of which is, possibly teratologieally, a mere node. 



Cephalic coxae subequal to the pronotum in length, subcompressed, 

 external margin lamellato-carinate, all margins very finely and 

 sparsely serrulate: cephalic femora nearly one and one-fifth times 

 the length of the pronotum, distinctly compressed, the general form 

 of the femur elongate sub-triquetrous, the greatest femoral depth 

 contained about three times in the length of the same; dorsal margin 

 of the femur lamellato-carinate, faintly sinuate; external face obso- 

 letely granulose; ventro-external margin with five relatively short, 

 conical spines, the distal one on the genicular lobe; ventro-internal 

 margin with thirteen conical spines, which are arranged according 

 to length in the following biseriate formula — (reading proximad) 

 I lililililili; discoidal spines four in number, the second (reading 

 proximad) much the longer; proximal section of the ventral surface 

 with a median row of tubercles; cephalic tibiae (aside from the 

 apical spur) half as long as the femora, moderately compressed, 

 subcarinate on the extensor surface, external margin with a series of 

 six distinct, adpressed spines on the distal half, these increasing in 

 length distad and represented proximad by weak crenulations; 

 internal margin with a continuous series of ten spines, which regu- 

 larly increase in length distad, apical claw greatly elongate, falci- 

 form: cephalic metatarsi but little shorter than the tibiae, the re- 

 maining joints of the cephalic tarsi but slightly shorter than the 

 metatarsi. Median and caudal hmbs of medium length, relatively 

 slender. 



General color ochraceous-buff to ochraceous-tawny, very thickly 

 ^and in general uniformh^ overlaid with a nebulose or punctulate 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.^ 



pattern of mummy brown to blackish-fuscous, which is in 

 general so heavy that at first glance it is supposed to be 

 the base color: eyes ochraceous-tawny overlaid with cloudings of 

 blackish fuscous; ocelli zinc orange; antennae mummy brown on an 

 ochraceous-tawny base: tegmina with the discoidal and all principal 

 veins suturad of the same regularly checked with blackish fuscous, 

 the base color of the veins being buffy, of the discoidal vein strongly 

 ochraceous-buff , the general infumation of the tegmina weak mummy 

 bi'own, with the immediate vicinity of the areal cross-veins hyaline; 

 wings infumate similar to the tegmina, but proximad and on the 

 radiate field more weakly so, the veins of the humeral field checked 

 similar to those of the tegmina, the veins of the radiate field with a 

 faint indication of similar but infrequent and attenuate checking; 

 internal face of the cephalic coxae in general uniformly pale; internal 

 face of the cephaUc femora largely blotched with fuscous; cephalic 

 tibiae with three rather indistinct bands of mummy brown; cephalic 

 metatarsi with incomplete median and distal annuli of fuscous, re- 

 maining tarsal joints each uni-annulate, median femora obscurely 

 tri- and caudal femora obscurely bi-annulate with fuscous clouds. 



Length of body, 24.2 mm.; greatest width of head across eyes, 4; 

 length of pronotum, 5.4; greatest width of pronotum, 2.8; length of 

 tegmen, 23; greatest width of tegmen, 6.4; length of exposed portion 

 of wing distad of tegmen, 2.4; length of cephahc femur, 6.1; length 

 of caudal femur, 7.2. 



The type of this interesting genus and species is unique. 



Eiuniopteryx laticoUis Giglio-Tos. 



1915. E[umiopteryx] luticollis Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Entora. Ital., XLVI, 

 p. 141. [Paraguay; Province of Sara, Bolivia.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This specimen agrees quite well with the generic and specific 

 descriptions, although very slightly smaller than the original measure- 

 ments for the sex. The individual has been much damaged about 

 the wings and the median and caudal limbs, and in consequence 

 certain venational features are not as clearly discernable as might 

 be desired. The genus is not far distant from Pseudomiopteryx, 

 and also close to the genus Trachymio-pteryx, above described. The 

 principal features of difference between the latter genus and Eu- 

 iniopteryx are given under the diagnosis of Trachymiopteryx. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



CNEPHOMANTIS'5 new namo. 



1915. Miopteryx Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XLVI, p. 139. (Not 

 Miopteryx Saussure, 1869.) 



1919. Miopteryx Giglio-Tos, Ibid., XLIX, p. 60. (Not Miopteryx Saus- 

 sure, 1869.) 



Giglio-Tos' recent reference of Miopteryx granadensis Saussure to a 

 new genus Promiopteryx,~ as its genotype, is completely in error. 

 His procedure is completely nullified by the first (the present au- 

 thor's) fixation of the genotype of Miopteryx as M. granadensis.'' 

 GigHo-Tos was, doubtless, following Kirby's fixation of rustica as. 

 the genotype, » but Kirby's fixation was made a number of months 

 posterior to the indication of granadensis. The name Promiopteryx 

 is, consequently, a pure synonym of restricted Mioptenjx. It is 

 necessary, therefore, to have a new generic name for the genus 

 called Miopteryx by Giglio-Tos, and we are here proposing Cnepho- 

 maniis, selecting as genotype the species described as Miopteryx 

 fuscata by Giglio-Tos. 



Cnephomantis-o fuscatus (Giglio-Tos). 



1915. M[iopteryx] fuscata Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XLVI, p. 

 139. [Brazil.! 

 Espirito Santo. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 



This specimen fully answers the brief description of Giglio-Tos^ 

 but has the pronotum faintly shorter (4.6 mm. instead of 5). 



Musoniella chopardi Cjiglio-Tos. 



1913. Miopteryx livida Chopard, Ann. Entom. Sor. France, LXXXII, p. 759. 

 (Nee Thespis livida Serville, 1839.) [Cuyaba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



1916. M[usoniella] chopardi Giglio-Tos, Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XLVII, p. 4. 

 (Name for liidda Chopard, nee Serville.) 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This specimen is apparently inseparable from the insect errone- 

 ously determined as Serville's Thespia livida by Chopard, and later 

 named chopardi by Giglio-Tos. The species is a rather aberrant 

 Musoniella, showing, in its pronotai form and type of head, a ten- 

 dency toward Eumusonia. 



« From Kvl(})as gloom and [Xxvc't's Mantis, in allusion to the shaded forest habi- 

 tat of many of these small Neotropical Mantidae. 



'Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XLVI, p. 138. (1915). 



8 Proc U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 566, (February, 1904). 



'Syn. Catal. Orth., I, p. 274, (not earlier than November, 1904). 



1" We find that Chopard in his recent key to the species of the genus Miopteryx 

 as understood by him (Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXII, pp. 760 and 761, 

 (1913)), has misplaced certain of the features of the species r(/.s/?;c« and argentina,- 

 the number of tibial spines given for argentina does not agree with the comments 

 of the describer, Saussure, while the color features given for the same form are 

 not those originally described, but instead those found in rustica. We have, 

 tentatively, separated as ciliata the Misiones male taken April 19, 1910, and 

 recorded by us (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 294), from the other speci- 

 mens there referred to rustica. It is the more infumate individual mentioned 

 in the comments in that paper. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Musonia" costalis new species. (Plate X, figs. 3 and 4.) 



This species is a quite interesting one, being on the borderland 

 between the genus Musonia{Promusonia GigUo-Tos'-) and Musoniella 

 GigHo-Tos, but apparently nearer the former assemblage. When 

 compared with a St. Laurent cotype of Chopard's Mionyx fusces- 

 cens,^^ which is a member of the restricted genus Musonia and to 

 which the new form is closely allied, costalis is seen to differ most 

 .strikingly in the deeper frontal shield, the shorter and broader pro- 

 notum, this showing Musoniella tendencies, the strongly infuscate 

 marginal field of the tegmina, which has a strikingly marked pale 

 line on the costal margin, and in the infuscate proximal sections of 

 the tranverse veins. The apex of the abdomen is lacking in the 

 specimens seen. From surinama, the genotype, costalis is separated 

 by a number of characters, the shorter pronotum and bicolored teg- 

 mina, with infuscate bases to the cross-veins, being sufficiently dis- 

 tinctive in costalis to separate readily the two forms. 



Type. — cf (presumably); Goyaz, State of Goyaz, Brazil. [Hebard 

 Collection, Type no. 217.] 



Size small: form moderately elongate. Head much wider than 

 the pronotal expansion, when seen from the cephalic aspect strongly 

 transverse, the greatest depth contained one and one-half times in 

 the greatest width: occipital line between the juxta-ocular sulci 

 straight transverse, between the juxta-ocular sulci and the eyes the 

 margins is slightly declivent and developed into low obtuse-angulate 

 lobes, from the side the longitudinal angle of the occiput is seen 

 to be slightly acute: oceUi large, but little separated, placed in a, 

 reversed, slightly depressed triangle: facial shield strongly trans- 

 verse, the greatest depth contained two and one-half times in the 



^^ We have nothing to add to our previous remarks regarding the generic name 

 Paramusonia (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 567, footnote, (1904)), the indi- 

 cated type of which is Thespis cubensis Saussure. Relative to GigHo-Tos' genus 

 Diainusonia, based on Mantis parva Drury, all we can say is that we do not 

 know the genotype, but we have a male of his species media from Caparo, Trin- 

 idad (April, 1913, S. M. Klages, [Hebard Chi.]) before us. However, the generic 

 name cannot be maintained, as in February, 1904, the present author first defin- 

 itely designated (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 56-5, footnote), the type of 

 Thespis Serville as Mantis parva. In consequence the name Diamusonia must 

 give place to Thespis Serville. Our species Paramusonia seclusa (Proc. Acad. 

 I\at. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 29.5, fig. 7, (1913)), from Alto Pencosa, Argentina, has 

 been referred by Giglio-Tos (Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XLVII, p. 6, (1916)), to 

 his genus Promusonia {=Musonia Stal), but a re-examination of the type shows 

 no reason for us to change our assignment, as it does not appear generically 

 separable from cubensis, the genotype of Paramusonia. 



^n^ide Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1918, p. 167, footnote 27, (1918). 



" Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXX, p. 333, (1911). [St. Laurent, La Fores- 

 tiere and Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana.] 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 22T 



greatest width, dorsal mai-gin of shield in general obtuse-angulate, 

 slightly emarginate ventrad of the antennae; lateral margins slightly 

 diverging dorsad; ventral margin faintly emarginate: eyes moderately 

 prominent, not extending caudad of the general line of the head, in 

 basal outline broad ovoid: antennae elongate, joint moniliform. 



Pronotum moderately elongate, the greatest width across the ex- 

 pansion contained nearly four times in the length of the same: collar 

 occupying about two-fifths of the pronotal length, the collar margins 

 regularly diverging caudad to the moderately indicated expansion, 

 the cephalic extremity of the pronotum regularly, but relatively 

 narrowly, rounded ; shaft of the pronotum ajDpreciably broader than 

 the collar, the margins almost subparallel, faintly diverging caudad, 

 caudal margin subtruncate, all lateral margins sparsely but dis- 

 tinctly denticulate, expansion rounded; median carina distinct^ 

 weak cephalad on the collar; transverse sulcus well indicated: collar 

 with lateral impressed areas throwing an elongate-elliptical dorsal 

 medio-longitudinal area into relief. 



Tegmina in length equal to about three times that of the pro- 

 notum: costal margin distinctly and regularly fringed with rela- 

 tively short hairs, strongly rounding to the narrowly rounded but 

 acute-angulate apex: marginal field narrow, proximal section weakly 

 expanded, the field having in the broader proximal section a false 

 longitudinal vein which forms a biseriate row of areolets: discoidal 

 vein bifurcate at distal third, median vein biramose, ulnar vein 

 biramose proximad; stigma nearly longitudinal, involving both distal 

 rami of the ulnar vein and the proximal ramus of the median vein; 

 axillary veins two in number, the distal one strongly sigmoid ; inter- 

 spaces between the veins of the discoidal field with false longitudinal 

 veins, which make a biseriate disposition of the subrectangulate 

 areolets. Wings surpassing the closed tegmina by about the length 

 of the shaft of the pronotum, the apex slightly acute. Surface of 

 the tegmina and of the exposed portion of the wings covei-ed with 

 short, plush-like, microscopic pile. Abdomen with the distal por- 

 tion missing. 



Cephalic coxae subequal to the pronotum in length, slender^ 

 strongly carinate, the margins unspined: cephalic femora equal 

 to one and one-fourth the length of the coxae, slender, the depth 

 hardly more than one-sixth of the length; ventro-external mar- 

 gin with five spines, one of which is genicular in position; ventro- 

 internal margin with thirteen spines, which are arranged in the 

 following formula (reading from the distal extremity) ilililililili, 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



of which the first, fifth and sixth of the longer spines are more ro- 

 bust than the others of that category; discoidal spines four in num- 

 ber, the distal one small: cephaUc tibiae slightly less than half 

 the length of the femora, external margin with five spines, with 

 a large proximal diastema, internal margin with nine spines, in- 

 creasing in length distad, apical claw large: cephalic metatarsi 

 very slender, elongate, in length faintly longer than the tibiae (with- 

 out claw), proximad sigmoid, remaining cephalic tarsal joints about 

 two-thirds as long as the metatarsus. Median and caudal limbs 

 very elongate and slender, the median femora subequal to the pro- 

 notum in length, the caudal femora almost half again as long as 

 the median femora. 



General color wood brown, overlaid with a finely punctulate pat- 

 tern and clouding of bone brown to fuscous. Head with the ocellar 

 region solidly, and the facial shield almost solidly, fuscous; eyes 

 broadly blotched with fuscous on the ground color; antennae of the 

 general color, weakly infuscate distad. Lateral portions of the pro- 

 notal shaft heavily blotched with fuscous. Tegmina snuff brown, 

 the marginal field solidly clove brown, the costal margin narrowly 

 but strikingly lined with light buff, this weakening distad; discoidal 

 field with a very short section of each of the cross-veins adjacent to 

 the longitudinal veins lined with clove brown; distad the longitu- 

 dinal veins show a pencilling of clove brown. Exposed portion of 

 wings colored similarly to the distal section of the tegmina. Limbs 

 with the pale base color evident on the carinae of the coxae and 

 femora; external face of the cephalic femora heavily clouded with 

 fuscous, internal face with a heavy blotch of fuscous at the ungual 

 groove; cephalic tibiae with three incomplete annuli composed of 

 fuscous blotches. 



Greatest width of head across eyes, 3 mm; length of pronotum, 

 5.6; greatest width of pronotum across expansion, 1.5; length of 

 tegmen, 17.2; greatest width of tegmen, 4; length of cephalic femur, 

 4.9; length of caudal femur, 8.6. 



The type of this species is unique. 



Eumusonia'^ livida (Serville). 



1839. Thespis livida Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 172. [Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This specimen appears, in the light of Giglio-Tos' comments'^ 

 and a re-examination of all of Serville's remarks, to be the same as, 



"Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XLVII, p. 8, (1916). 

 15 Ibid., pp. 4, 5 and 8. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



or extremely close to, Serville's species. The insect previously 

 called livida by Caudell^*' and the present author^' is quite close, and 

 we have identified it as Eumusonia viridis Giglio-Tos,^* which was 

 recently described from a single male from Salto Grande, State of Sao 

 Paulo, Brazil. The species viridis has both green and brown chroma- 

 tomorphs, the green apparently the more infrequent, but a single 

 specimen of it being in the series of six individuals of the species 

 now before us. 



Thesprotia fuscipennis Saussui-e and Zehntner. 



1894. Thesprotia fuscipennis Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 

 Orth., I, p. 171. [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Espirito Santo. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 



This specimen is fully typical of the species, but unfortunately 

 lias the supra-anal plate damaged, as did the male type, so that the 

 character of this important part is as yet unknown. 



CREOBOTRINAE. 



Acanthops erosa Serville. 



1839. Acanthops erosa Serville, Hist. Mat. Ins., Orthopt., p. 165. [Brazil.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January, 1885. One female. 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



The present species, as we understand it, is quite close to A. fal- 

 cataria, from which it readily can be separated by the narrower 

 proximal section of the marginal field of the tegmina. 



Acanthops rehni (Cliopard)." 



1913. P[lesiacanthops] rehni Chopard, Bull. Soc. Entom. France, 1913, p. 

 55, figs. 1 to 3. [Gran Chaco, Argentina.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Two males. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This species is extremely variable in size in the male sex, as a 

 series of nine males from Sapucay, Paraguay, now before us, shows. 

 Females from the latter locality are appreciably larger than the 

 type measurements. 



The genus Plesiacanthops, which was erected for tuherculata Saus- 

 sure and the present species, does not appear to us to be very sharply 

 distinguished from true Acanthops, three species {hrunneri, falcataria 

 and erosa) of which latter division are now before us. Chopard has 



16 Journ. N. Y. Entom. Soc, XII, p. 184, (1904). 



"Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 1.58; Ibid., 1913, p. 205. 



18 Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XLVII, p. 8, (1916). 



'9 This is the species recorded by us from Paraguay as Acanthops sinuata (Proc. 

 -Acad. ISiat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 1.59). We are enabled to correct this determina- 

 tion by the acquisition of true sinuata {= falcataria) from the Guianas. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



recently reduced Plesiacanthops from generic rank to that of a divi- 

 sion or subgenus of Acanthops.-'^ 



As the male sex of this species has not been described, a few notes 

 may be of value : 



cf . Sapucay, Paraguay. December 8, 1909. (WiUiam Foster.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



In general form differing from the female in the same fashion as 

 males of the other species of the genus Acanthops differ from the 

 females of their respective species. Form moderately slender, in 

 general depressed, tegmina and wings well developed, considerably 

 surpassing the apex of the abdomen. Head with its greatest depth 

 contained one and one-third times in the greatest width of the head 

 across the eyes; facial shield slightly more transverse than in the 

 female; ocelU large, subcontiguous, placed in a depressed triangle; 

 eyes much more produced than in the female, the apices' more de- 

 cidedly mammillate; antennae setaceous, but slightly heavier than 

 in the female: surface of head with faint traces of the asperities 

 found in the female. 



Pronotum relative smooth, no trace of asperities being present; 

 greatest width across the expansion contained three and one-third 

 times in the greatest length of the pronotum, subequal to the length 

 of the collar; expansion moderately indicated, rounded, margins 

 entire, no median carina or depression indicated. Tegmina of 

 the usual type found in the males of this genus, mortui-foliaceous, 

 greatest width (which is at distal fourth) contained three and one- 

 third times in the tegminal length; costal margin bisinuate, the 

 distal one shorter longitudinally than the proximal one; apex sub- 

 rectangulate with the angle slightly produced lobulate. Wings 

 infumate, with the transverse veins of the anterior humeral and 

 more distinctly of the radiate, but not of the posterior humeral, 

 fields whitish, forming a distinct pattern; greatest width of the wing 

 contained one and three-quarters times in the greatest length of the 

 same; apex narrowly rounded rectangulate, costal margin in general 

 straight, at the distal fourth rounded and thence to the apex oblique 

 truncate. 



Supra-anal plate subtransverse rounded trigonal; cerci not longer 

 than the subgenital plate, subdepressed, subequal in width, the 

 distal joint as long as the two preceding it and truncate at the ex- 

 tremity; subgenital plate shovel-shaped, subtrigonal, the distal 



2" Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXV, p. 179, (1916). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



extremity V-emarginate, the styles very brief. In structure the 

 abdomen is lamellate as in the female, but in a slightly more re- 

 duced fashion; the dorsal black pattern is some^^hat different; second 

 segment with a transverse bar caudad, third segment with an arcuate 

 figure distad taking up about two-thirds of its surface, fourth seg- 

 ment similarly but more completely occupied, fifth segment com- 

 pletely colored except that proximo-mesad the tone is weaker and 

 brownish, sixth segment broadly bordered laterad and caudad with 

 black, seventh segment distinctly and eighth and ninth segments- 

 faintly bordered caudad with blackish: venter of the abdomen with 

 the structure of the segmental margins as in the male. Limbs of 

 the type found in the female but much more slender. 



Measurements of the described specimen: length of body, 41 mm.; 

 greatest width of head across eyes, 5.8; length of pronotum, 11.5;: 

 greatest width of pronotum across expansion, 3.5; length of tegmen,. 

 38.6; greatest width of tegmen, 11.5; length of cephaUc femur, 10;^ 

 length of caudal femur, 7.5. 



VATINAE. 

 Oxyopsis lobeter Rehn. 



1907. Oxyopsis loheler Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 159,. 

 figs. 3 and 4. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Three males. [Hebard Cln.] 



The range of this species is now known to extend from the Misiones,. 



northeastern Argentina north to Goyaz, Brazil. 



Oxyopsis oculea new species. (Plate X, flgs. 5, 6 and 7.) 



A member of the section of the genus having produced and acute 

 apices of the wings, and related to 0. ruhicunda (Stoll), from the 

 Guianas, but differing from that species in the female sex in the less 

 elongate pronotum, more decidedly trigonal sectional form of the 

 shaft of the same, in the more produced (laterad) eyes, in the some- 

 what narrower marginal field of the tegmina, in the reduction in 

 number and size of the hyaline areas of the discoidal field of the 

 same, in the more acute tegminal apices, in the slightly more acumin- 

 ate apices of the wings and in the relatively shorter median and 

 caudal limbs. We are unable to compare the male very satisfac- 

 torily with nibicunda, owing to a lack of material of that sex of the 

 older species, and the rather poor character of the available descrip- 

 tions and figures of the same. 



Type. — 9 , Bonito, State of Pernambuco, Brazil. July 15, 1883. 

 [United States National Museum.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Size medium, form moderately slender. Head with the greatest 

 width across eyes twice that across the expansion of the pronotum, 

 when seen from the cephalic aspect the form of the head is depressed 

 trigonal, the greatest depth contained one and five-eighths times in 

 the greatest width across the eyes; occipital line subtruncate, round- 

 ing to the eyes laterad; region of the frons distinctly declivent, 

 slightly concave; juxta-ocular sulci and the median pair of sulci well 

 impressed on the frons; ocelli distinct, small, well separated, placed 

 in a strongly curved line; facial shield transverse, its greatest depth 

 contained one and two-thirds times in the greatest width, the dorsal 

 outline of the plate transverse truncate mesad, obliquely truncate 

 laterad, lateral margins vertical, ventral margin weakly arcuate- 

 emarginate, surface of the plate with a few depressions laterad but 

 no elevations excepting the dorsal and lateral margins, which are 

 cingulate; clypeus and labrum transverse, eyes strongly produced 

 laterad, when seen from the dorsum or from the cephalic aspect 

 the production of the eyes is rectangulate, the apex submammilate, 

 the cephalic surface of the eyes with a distinct convexity: antennae 

 simple, setaceous, relatively short. 



Pronotum elongate, the greatest width across the inflation con- 

 tained slightly more than five times in the greatest length of the 

 same, inflation little pronounced, the collar regularly narrowing 

 from this to the rather narrowly rounded cephalic extremity, the 

 shaft with the margins faintly concave, the least width of the shaft 

 being at the median third, where the margins are briefly subparallel; 

 lateral margins of the shaft distinctly dentate, the teeth sparser 

 caudad, the margins of the collar closely denticulate, on the ex- 

 pansion proper the denticulations are few and weak; in section 

 the shaft is strongly trigonal, median carina of the shaft fairly 

 decided and continuous, collar with a medio-longitudinal impression, 

 which is stronger caudad and there accompanied by a median carinu- 

 lation, transverse impression well indicated. 



Tegmina about one and one-fourth times as long as the prono- 

 tum, in form quite elongate elliptico-ovoid, the greatest width 

 contained about three times in the greatest length; costal margin 

 strongly arcuate proximad and distad but straight for the greater 

 portion of its length mesad, apex subrectangulate with the immediate 

 apex very narrowly rounded, sutural margin with the proximal 

 third faintly arcuate, the distal fourth obliquely rounding to the 

 apex: marginal field occupying aboat two-fifths of the width of the 

 tegmen, gently broadening to the distal fourth, thence narrowing 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



to the apex; oblique rami in the marginal field nine in number, oc- 

 casionally bifurcate; hyaline areolae of the proximal section of the 

 discoidal and anal areas relatively -few in number, not markedlj^ 

 conspicuous. Wings surpassing the apices of the tegmina by about 

 one-third of the pronotal length, the exposed portion of the wings 

 distinctly and regularly acute, the proximal width of the exposed 

 portion contained one and one-third times in the length of the same 

 section, the structure of the exposed area coriaceous; wing in gen- 

 eral relatively long and narrow, its greatest width contained about 

 twice in the total wing length. Abdomen incomplete. 



Cephalic coxae about five-eighths as long as the pronotum, in sec- 

 tion compressed triquetrous, dorsal (cephalic) margin with moderate 

 spines, which are biseriate in length and somewhat irregular in dis- 

 position; cephalic femora equal to two-thirds of the prono- 

 tum, slender, little compressed; discoidal spines four in number; 

 external margin with four large spines and a microscopic point on the 

 genicular lobe; internal maigin with fifteen spines, which are biseri- 

 ately arranged for length as follows (reading proximad), liilililililili: 

 cephalic tibiae (exclusive of apical claw) slightly less than half as 

 long as the cephalic femora, subcompressed, the claw heavy, ex- 

 ternal margin with eleven spines, which increase in length distacl 

 and proximad of which is a brief diastema, internal margin with 

 sixteen to seventeen spines, which increase in length distacl: cephalic 

 metatarsi slightly shorter than the tibiae, faintly longer than the 

 remaining tarsal joints. Median and caudal limVis elongate, moder- 

 ately slender; median femora slightly longer than the cephalic coxae; 

 caudal femora subequal in length to the shaft of the pronotum, 

 caudal tibiae subequal in length to the femora; caudal metatarsi 

 shghtly shorter than the collar of the pronotum, the remaining tarsal 

 joints faintly shorter than the metatarsus. 



Allotype. — cf ; same data as type. [United States National 

 Museum.] 



Differing from the description of the type in the following features. 

 Size smaller; form more slender, as usual in males of this genus. Head 

 with greatest Avidth across eyes over two and one-half times that 

 across the expansion of the pronotum, the form of the head more 

 depressed, the greatest depth contained one and three-fourths times 

 in the width across the eyes; occipital line more broadly transverse, 

 hardly rounding to the eyes; ocelU large, closely placed in a triangle; 

 facial shield strongly transverse, its greatest depth contained three 

 times in the greatest width of the shield, the dorsal line of the plate 




234 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



narrowly truncate mesad, broadly oblique truncate laterad, lateral 

 margins truncate, distinctly converging ventrad, ventral margin 

 decidedly arcuate-emarginate ; eyes slightly more prominent than 

 in the female; antennae lacking. 



Pronotum very slender, its greatest width across the expansion 

 contained more than five times in the length of the same, general 

 form much as in the male, but the form of the inflation is more 

 decided and the shaft is more strongly triquetrous, with the median 

 carina decidedly indicated and the collar margins more subparallel; 

 lateral margins very weakly crenulate, this more evident, though 

 there far from decided, on the supra-coxal inflation. Tegmina 

 missing. Wings two and one-fourth times as long as the pronotum, 

 apices rotundato-rectangulate, these less coriaceous and less sharply 

 differentiated than in the female. Abdomen with the apex missing. 



Cephahc coxae with a single series of well-spaced spines; cephalic 

 femora about five-eighths as long as the pronotum, armed as in 

 the female; cephalic tibiae with one spine less on each margin than 

 in the female. Caudal limbs missing. 



Coloration of type and allotype have been completely destroyed 

 by immersion in a liquid preservative, from which they were mounted. 

 At present both specimens are ochraceous or brownish, with the eyes 

 walnut brown. The wings of the male are hyaline with the tips 

 brownish in the coriaceous section; the wings of the female are 

 hyaline tessellate with yellow, which colors the vicinity of the cross- 

 veins, the coriaceous section of the apices of the general tone. The 

 tegmina of the female show sufficient contrast to warrant the as- 

 sumption that the marginal field and probably a portion of the 

 proximal section of the discoidal field were originally purplish or 

 brownish, while the remainder of the discoidal and the anal fields 

 were greenish or yellowish, the hyaline areas moderately contrasted. 



Measurements {in millifneters). 



Greatest 



width of 



head (across 



eyes) 



o' , allotype 5 . 8 

 9, type .... 8.6 



Greatest 

 width of 

 Length of pronotum 

 pronotum across 

 inflation 



12.4 2.2 



23.2 4.2 



Length 



Length of Width of 

 exposed exposed 

 of coriaceous coriaceous 

 tegmen jjortion of portion of 

 wing wing 



— 4.8 5.6 



29.5 7 5 



cT, allotype 

 9, type 



Length of Length of Length of 



cephahc femur median femur caudal femur 



8.5 8 



15.7 13.6 IS 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



The type and allotype of this species are the only specimens we 

 have examined. 



Parastagmatoptera glauca new species. (Plate X, flgs. 8 and 9.) 



An interesting species related to P. theresopolitana and pellucido. 

 Giglio-Tos^i, agreeing with those species in the non-tessellate wings 

 and the siibpellucid, non-fenestrate wings. From both of these 

 species, however, glauca differs in its much smaller size, more weakly 

 denticulate lateral margins of the pronotum, the narrower marginal 

 field of the tegmina and impunctate stigma, and, in addition, from 

 theresopolitana in the absence of black from the wings and cephalic 

 coxae and in the unmarked bases of the larger internal spines of the 

 cephalic femora. 



Type. — 9 ; Colonia Hansa, State of Santa Catharina, Brazil. 

 [Hebard Collection, Type no. 221.] 



Size small , form somewhat more robust than usual in the same sex 

 in this genus. Head depressed trigonal in form, with the greatest 

 width one and one-half times as great as the greatest depth of the 

 same; occipital outline sinuato-truncate between the juxta-ocular 

 sulci, juxta-ocular section (laterad of the sulci) moderately arcuato- 

 bullate, sulci moderately impressed, straight, vertical for the greater 

 portion of their length; face hardly concave; ocelli small, distinct, 

 placed in a very much depressed triangle; facial scutellum strongly 

 transverse, the greatest depth contained about two and one-half 

 times in the greatest width, dorsal margin very broadly rounded 

 obtuse-angulate mesad and faintly emarginate laterad, dorso-lateral 

 angles nearly rectangulate, ventral margin shallowly arcuato- 

 emarginate, surface faintly excavate; eyes well rounded in outUne 

 when seen from the cephalic aspect, in basal outline subovoid- 

 p>Tiform, flattened caudad; antennae fihform, in length slightly 

 shorter than the pronotum. 



Pronotum moderately robust, greatest width of supra-coxal dila- 

 tion contained three and one-third times in the greatest length; 

 collar broad, margin regularly expanding from the strongly arcuate 

 cephalic margin; supra-coxal dilation hardly differentiated from 

 the collar, passing regularly by expansion from one to the other, 

 broadly rounded and as evenly narrowing caudad to the shaft, 

 the caudal half of which is subequal in width, caudal margin trun- 

 cate mesad, well rounded laterad, entire lateral margins closely 

 denticulate; median line on collar and cephalic section of shaft 



" BoUett. Mus. Zoolog. Anat. Comp. Torino, XXIX,no. 684, pp. 20, 21, (1914.) 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



as a fine sul cation; surface with numerous scattered fine asperities; 

 transverse sulcus truncate mesad, arcuato-rectangulate laterad. 



Tegmina surpassing the apex of the abdomen, in shape ovoid, 

 one and four-fifths times as long as the pronotum, l)road, the great- 

 est width about two-fifths of the greatest length, marginal field 

 opaque, discoidal and anal fields translucent; costal margin strongly 

 and regularly arcuate, sutural margin largely straight, rounding 

 to the rotundato-rectangulate apex; marginal field forming about 

 one-third of the total tegminal width, oblique veins of the same 

 quite irregular and much forked and fused; discoidal sectors five 

 to six in number, oblique, equidistant, moderately sigmoid, trans- 

 verse nervures moderately regular, irregular false sectoi's present 

 toward the sutural margin; anal vein moderately arcuate, join- 

 ing the sutural margin slightlj^ proximad of the middle, anal field 

 wth axillary veins disposed similarly to the discoidal sectors; stigma 

 distinct, close to the humeral trunk proximad of the middle, longi- 

 tudinal, uncolored. Wings reaching to the tips of the tegmina, sul)- 

 hyaline translucent. Abdomen depressed, broad. 



Supra-anal plate produced mesad into a linguiform process which 

 is subequal to the proximal width of the plate; subgenital plate 

 strongly compresso -rostrate distad, this section deep. Cephalic 

 coxae faintly longer than the shaft of the pronotum, faintly arcuate 

 distad, dorsal margin biseriate denticulate, the larger series six in 

 number and recurved, the smaller ones minute and more numerous, 

 the numbers between the larger denticulations variable, ventral mar- 

 gin sparsely serrulato-denticulate, the external margin similar but 

 more closely armed, internal face with a few low tubercles parallel 

 to the dorsal margin; cephalic femora faintly shorter than the pro- 

 notum in length, greatest depth contained three and one -half times 

 in the greatest length, subcompressed, dorsal margin straight, ventro- 

 external margin with four large spines, slightly longer proximad, 

 lateral genicular lobe with a single rather short spine, ventro-internal 

 margin with thirteen spines which are biseriate in length, the for- 

 mulae (reading distad) being ilililililiil, discoidal spines four in 

 number; cephalic tibiae (exclusive of the apical claw) subequal 

 to one-half the femoral length, external margin armed with seven 

 spines increasing in length distad, a considerable unarmed diastema 

 present proximad, internal margin with eleven spines increasing in 

 length distad, apical claw quite long, gently arcuate; cephalic meta- 

 tarsi subequal to the remaining tarsal joints in length. Median 

 and caudal limlis elongate, tibial carinations weak. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



General color (undoubtedly discolored in drying untl probably 

 green in life) ochraceous-tawny. Head chestnut-brown (^doubtless 

 discolored). Tegmina yellowish-glaucous, mytho-green distad, the 

 latter probably the natural color of the whole tegmen. Wings hy- 

 aline, faintly yellowish. CephaUc femoral and tibial spines weakly 

 tipped with black or pitch black. 



Length of body, 28.8 mm.;'-'- length of pronotuin, 11.2; greatest 

 width of supra-coxal expansion of pronotum, 3.4; length of tegmen, 

 20.5; greatest width of tegmen, 8.5; greatest width of marginal field 

 of tegmen, 2.6; length of cephahc coxa, 8.8; length of cephalic femur, 

 10.5; length of caudal femur, 10.5; length of caudal tibia, 10. 



The type is unique. 



PHASMIDAE. 

 PYGIRHYNCHIN.AJE. 



Ceroys perfoliatus (Gray). 



1835. C[lndoniorphus] perfoliatus Gray, Synops. Spec. Ins. Fam. Phasm., 

 p. 15. [Brazil.] 



Rio de Janeiro. One female. [M. C. Z.] 



This specimen is perfectly typical of the species, but shows some 

 difference from the descriptions in having a second pair of tubercles 

 on the mesonotum cephalad of the usual pair, the extra ones being 

 developed as a strong spine (right side) or as a short conical tubercle 

 (left). 



The species has been previously recorded from this localit}'. 



PSEUDOPHASMIN.\E.23 



Olcjrphides tithonus (Gray). 



1835. P[hasma] tithonus Graj-, Synops. Phasm., p. 23. ["East Indies" (in 

 error).] 



Espirito Santo. One male. [Hebard CIn.] 



-- Approximate, as the apex of the abdomen is twisted out of its normal plane. 

 23 \\^p have examined the unique tvpe of Phasma rndiatum Scudder (Proc;. 

 Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXVII, p. 279," (1875)), and find that Kedtenbacher (In- 

 scktf. Phasm., p. 105, (1906)), has properly phiced this species in the genus »S7/-o/o- 

 cles, and has correcth^ interpreted the features of the species. Although the 

 material examined by Redtenbacher was of the female sex and the type is a 

 male, the characters assigned by him are all those of the type, except for rela- 

 tively minor ones of the abdominal and limb coloration, and these may be sexual 

 features. In the type the apex of the abdomen is solidly blackish, without any 

 indication of the lateral ferruginous and the marginal greenish mentioned by 

 Redtenbacher. The caudal tibiae in the type have the dorsal surface lined with 

 ferruginous except proximad and distad, where the general blackish-color is 

 found. Redtenbacher says the tibiae are uniformly fuscous-black, along with 

 the tarsi. The caudal tarsi are pale ferruginous in the type, while those of the 

 other limbs are as described by him. 




"238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Rio de Janeiro. November. Two males, two females. [U. S. 



:n. m.] 



This beautiful species has been reported from as far north as 

 Cayenne, south to Santos, Brazil. The Espirito Santo male has 

 the black areas on the antennae more extensive than in the other 

 specimens. 



Paraphasma marginale Redtenbacher. 



190G. P[araphas»ia] marginale Redtenbacher, Die Insektenfam. Phasm., 

 I, p. 11.5. [Santos, Minas Geraes, Rio de Janeiro, and Goyaz, Brazil; 

 Paraguay.] 



Piexe Boi, east of Para, State of Para. (H. B. Merrill.) Novem- 

 ber to December, 1907. One female. [A. N. S. P.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Two males, three females. [Hebard 

 €ln.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. April (highland). (H. H. 

 Smith.) Three males, one female. [U. S. N. M.] 



This species, or at least individuals which we feel compelled to 

 refer to this species, exhibits a most extraordinary amount of 

 variation in structure and, to a certain extent, in coloration. We 

 have before us in addition to the specimens recorded above, indi- 

 viduals of both sex from Sapucay, Puerto Cantera and Alto Parana, 

 Paraguay, and Misiones, Argentina, most of which already have been 

 rreported. These specimens show appreciable variation in the rela- 

 tive width of the head, in the relative size of the ocelli, in the rela- 

 tive length of the tegmina, in the acuteness and degree of develop- 

 ment of the tubercle of the tegmina and in the coloration of the wings 

 and the limbs. The anterior field of the wings may have the colora- 

 tion strongly bicolored, blackish and pea green, or the "ground color 

 pale with the vicinity of the longitudinal veins lined with fuscous; 

 the posterior field of the wings may be unicolored infumate with the 

 principal veins well lined, while in the other extreme the greater 

 portion of the field is pale with the distal section and part of the 

 margin infumate, the veins in the pale area non-infumate. The 

 limbs may be blackish or mummy-brown. At first examination it 

 appears that two distinct species are present, but when all the avail- 

 able material is examined it is found that there is only a partial cor- 

 relation of these characters, one male from Sapucay, for instance, 

 being in every other way characteristic of one of the extremes ana- 

 lyzed above, but having the broad head of the other extreme, while 

 the Peixe Boi individual is in most of its features intermediate be- 

 tween the two types. The genitalic features of all of the specimens 

 seem to be identical for the respective sexes. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Damasippus pulcher Redtenbacher. * 



1906. D[omasippus] pulcher Redtenbacher, Die Insektenfam. Phasm., I, 

 p. 148. [Espirito .Santo, Brazil.] 



Espirito Santo. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



This specimen has the greenish-yellow on the head less clearly 

 defined than the original description would lead one to suppose it 

 is in the type, which was also a female. The caudal femora are 

 also more clear greenish than " flavo-ferruginous " as described. In 

 all the other features, however, the present individual is typical. 



Prisopus horstokkii De Haan. 



1842. P[has)na] (Prisopus) horstokkii De Haan, Verhandl. Natuurl. Ges- 

 chied., Bijdrasen Kenn. Orth., p. 113, pi. XII, fig. 1. ["Cape of Good 

 Hope" (erroneous).] 



Rio Verde, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 

 Gahan's recently described P. fisherp* is supposed to differ from 

 horstokkii in the presence of triangular processes on the lateral sec- 

 tions of the metathorax, but our material, which fully agrees with 

 the description and figure of horstokkii, possesses the same structures, 

 yet differs from the description of fisheri in other features, as the 

 color of the ventral surface of the body and of the membranous sec- 

 tion of the wings. It is evident that either horstokkii possesses such 

 appendages on the metathorax or the coloration given for certain 

 areas, which are as a rule of fairly fixed character, varies in fisheri. 

 We feel that the first explanation is more likely the correct one, in 

 which conclusion we are strengthened by an examination of other 

 inaterial of the genus. The metathoracic processes are hidden from 

 above in spread specimens and this may explain their oversight by 

 previous workers. 



This is the first Brazihan record of the species. 



HETERONEMINAE. 

 Dyme straminea new species. (Plate X, flgs. 10 and 11.) 



This remarkably elongate and attenuate species can be distin- 

 guished by the excessively elongate and straw-like limbs, the slen- 

 derness of the body and the distinct medio-longitudinal fuscous line, 

 which reaches from the inter-antennal region to the proximal por- 

 tion of the abdomen, where it becomes obsolete. Of the species 

 treated by Brunner the only one to which it appears at all allied is 

 D. incoliimis, from Vera Paz, Guatemala, and from the description 

 of which it differs in the male (the only sex in hand) having the ventro- 

 lateral margin of the penultimate (eighth) dorsal abdominal segment 



24 The EntomoL, XLV, p. .54, fig., (1912). 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.,. 



« 



straight, its angles rectangulate, instead of I'ounded with the angles 

 obtuse, in the ultimate (ninth) dorsal abdominal segment of the 

 same sex being two and one-half times as long as broad, instead of 

 equally long and broad, and in the subgenital operculum falling 

 distinctly short of the apex of the dorsal penultimate (eighth) seg- 

 ment, instead of reaching to the apex of the same as in incolumis. 



Type. — cf ; Goyaz, State of Goyaz, Brazil. [Hebard Collection. 

 Type no. 471.] 



Size moderately large: form very elongate and slender, baciUiform. 

 Head with its length nearly one and one-half times that of the pro- 

 notum, the greatest width across the eyes contained twice in the 

 length of the head, the caudal section of the head, i. e. that caudad 

 of the eyes, subequal in width, slightly narrower than the width 

 across the eyes: ocelli absent: eyes very short oval in basal outline, 

 hardly prominent when seen from the dorsiun: antennae not com- 

 plete, in length certainly exceeding the head, pronotum and mesono- 

 tum as remaining portions show. 



Pronotum no wider than the caudal section of the head, the length 

 about twice the median width, the cephalic half faintly narrower 

 than the caudal half; cephalic margin faintly arcuate emarginate, 

 caudal margin very slightly arcuate convex; median transverse 

 indentation pronounced, medio-longitudinal sulcus indicated cepha- 

 lad. Mesonotum about three times as long as the combined length 

 of the head and pronotum, slender, faintly widening caudad, the 

 wadth elsewhere uniform, hardly greater than that of the head, 

 strongly arcuate in transverse section, near each lateral margin 

 with, a continuous but low carina; caudal margin weakly arcuato- 

 emarginate. Metanotum, including the median segment, four-fifths 

 as long as the mesonotum, in general form and sculpture similai' 

 to the mesonotum: length of the median segment contained o\er 

 three and one-half times in the length of the remainder of the meta- 

 notum; caudal margin of the median segment arcuato-emarginate. 

 Meso- and metasternum with paired, prominent lateral carinae 

 prominent throughout their length. 



Abdomen slightly longer than the combined length of the head and 

 thoracic segments, slender, faintly thickened and enlarged at the 

 sutures between the segments; first to seventh joints distinctly 

 elongate, the second to fourth joints slightly the longer; eighth dor- 

 sal segment slender, faintly shorter than the ninth segment, dis- 

 tinctly infolded ventro-distad ; ninth dorsal abdominal segment 

 three-fourths as long as the eighth dorsal abdominal segment. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



slendcM-, sul) compressed, tectate, carinate dorsad, distal extremity 

 broadly \'-emai-ginate, the margin thickened, the ventral surface of 

 the same supplied with a heavy covering of small, imbricate, ad- 

 pressed denticulations, when seen from the side the segment has the 

 lateral margins straight, the angles rectangulate; subgenital opei- 

 culum moderately compressed, rostrate distad, reaching to the 

 distal third of the eighth dorsal abdominal segment, ventral surface 

 with a inedio-longitudinal carina on distal section : cerci simple, 

 slightly incurved, subequal in width, their length equal to about 

 one-third that of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, apex blunt, 

 that section covered with i-ecurved, chaetiform spinulations. 



Limbs extremely slender, attenuate, multicarinate. Cephalic fem- 

 ora almost twice as long as the metanotum (including the median 

 segment), cephalic flexure pronounced and slightly sigmoid when seen 

 from the dorsum: cephalic tibiae surpassing the femoral length by 

 about twice the length of the head: cephalic metatarsi nearly twice 

 as long as the length of the remaining tarsal joints united. Median 

 femora equal to the length of the metanotum and the first and half 

 of the second abdominal segments, very slightly bowed: median 

 tibiae surpassing the femoral length by about the length of the pro- 

 notum: median metatarsi hardly longer than the remainder of the 

 median tarsal joints united. Caudal femora reaching to about 

 the apex of the fifth dorsal abdominal segment, almost imperceptibly 

 arcuate: caudal tibiae surpassing the femoral length by about the 

 length of the head : caudal metatarsi slightly longer than the remain- 

 ing tarsal joints united. Arolia relatively large in all tarsi. 



General color i-anging from primuline yellow on the thoracic seg- 

 ments to dull wax yellow on the abdomen, passing through buck- 

 thorn brown to cinnamon-brown on the limbs. Eyes iDuckthorn 

 brown; antennae mar's brown proximad, passing into fuscous distad. 

 Head with paired postocular lines of mummy brown; these are dis- 

 continuously indicated on the meso- and metanotum and the prox- 

 imal abdominal segment. A medio-longitudinal line of l)lackish 

 fuscous extends continuously from the inter-antennal region to the 

 sixth abdominal segment, not strongly indicated distad of the second 

 abdominal segment. 



Length of body, 113.5 mm.; length of head, 5; length of pronotum, 

 3.6; length of mesonotum, 26; length of metanotum (including 

 median segment), 21.2; length of median segment, 4.4; length of 

 cephalic femur, 43.5; length of cephalic tibia, 54.2; length of median 

 femur, 32; length of caudal femur, 37. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



In addition to the type we have before us a paratypic male, dif- 

 fering from the type solelj' in being shghtly smaller. 



PHIBALOSOMINAE. 

 Bactridium grande new species. (Plate X, fig. 12.) 



A very striking new species allied to B. dentipes Redtenbacher, 

 emortuale (Saussure) and gracile (Serville), but differing from all in 

 the much shorter operculum of the female, which does not exceed 

 the apex of the body, and also from the individual species as follows : 

 from dentipes in the larger size, in the presence of very decided teeth 

 on the dorsal and ventro-external margins of the cephalic femora, 

 in the relatively longer limbs and in the different spination of the 

 median and caudal limbs; from emortuale in the relatively longer 

 limbs and in the absence of lobes on the proximal section of the 

 ventral margins of the median femora; and from the poorly defined 

 gracile in the much greater size and the more spinose ventral carinae 

 of the median femora. 



Type. — 9; Santa Catharina, Brazil. [Hebard Collection, Type 

 no. 401.] 



Size very large; form elongate and as usual in the genus. Head 

 nearly twice as long as the pronotum, subovate in outline when seen 

 from the dorsum, the greatest width (across the eyes) contained one 

 and one-half times in the length of the head; occiput subdeplanate, 

 the caudal margin of the same weakly produced mesad and shallowly 

 divided into two by a faint longitudinal impression, laterad of which 

 production there is another faint impression in the same margin, 

 the lateral margins of the occiput moderately and regularly converg- 

 ing caudad from the eyes; no apparent ocelli present; eyes moder- 

 ately produced, subglobose; antennae missing except for the two 

 proximal joints, the first of which is quite slender and elongate, de- 

 pressed. 



Pronotum moderately longitudinal, slightly l^roader caudad than 

 cephalad; cephalic margin obtuse-angulate, strongly elevato-cingu- 

 late; lateral margins shallowly arcuate-emarginate cephalad, sub- 

 parallel caudad; caudal margin arcuato-emarginate ; cephalic inter- 

 marginal sulcus with a distinct median and paired lateral fossae, 

 median transverse impression well marked mesad, obsolete laterad. 

 Mesonotum about three times as long as the head and pronotum 

 together, non-carinate. Metanotum (with median segment) about 

 two-thirds as long as the mesonotum, of similar structure; median 

 segment subequal in length to the metanotum proper. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Abdomen with all segments longitudinal, those from one to five 

 regularly increasing from twice to four times as long as wide, sixth 

 segment slightly more than three times as long as wide, seventh seg- 

 ment strongly compressed and three times as long as wide, eighth 

 segment elongate quadrate, one and one-half times as long as wide, 

 ninth segment (anal segment) with median length faintly more than 

 greatest width, lateral margins moderately expanding caudad, caudal 

 margin obtuse-angulate emarginate, median line finely sulcate; 

 distal margin of the fourth dorsal segment transversely tuberculate 

 mesad; supra-anal plate small, placed in the emargination of the anal 

 segment, the margin arcuate; cerci slender, styliform, acuminate, 

 but faintly surpassing the lateral portions of the anal segment; 

 sixth ventral segment produced ventrad into a distinct bidigitate 

 process, which is subdepressed, with the processes well separated by 

 a deep median incision and converging distad; subgenital operculum 

 large and broad, but not surpassing the apex of the abdomen, the 

 distal margin subobtusely rounded, the surface of distal portion 

 wTinkled rugulose, a distinct median carina distad. Prosternum 

 slightly transverse, trigonal. 



Cephalic femora subequal in length to that of the head, pro- 

 notum and mesonotum combined, proximal flexure decided and 

 strongly narrowed, dorso -internal margin strongly and ventro- 

 external margin distinctly lamellate developed and serrato-dentate, 

 dorso-external margin not elevated but with six spaced dentations, 

 genicular lobes spiniform; cephalic tibiae damaged. Median femora 

 subequal in length to the three proximal abdominal segments, 

 very faintly bowed, dorso-internal margin with a high trigonal 

 recurved spiniform lobe at the proximal third, distad of which 

 there are from five to six similar but very much smaller tooth struc- 

 tures, dorso-external margin with four similar small structures 

 on distal two-thirds, ventro-external margin with nineteen similar 

 teeth, ventro-internal margin with eighteen to twenty teeth, ventro- 

 medial! carina with five to six teeth; median tibiae slightly longer 

 than the median femora, all the margins finely serrato-dentate, 

 the dorso-internal mesad with an elongate but rather low lobe end- 

 ing distad in a spine, all the carinae subcristate distad and there 

 with several fine teeth; median metatarsi subequal in length to 

 the remaining tarsal joints, dorsad with a low but distinct median 

 carina. Caudal femora slightly longer than the median femora, 

 of similar character, the margins armed with serrato-dentations 

 of a minor grade, as follows — dorso-external, four to eleven; dorso- 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF '[May-Oct., 



internal, six to fifteen; ventro-external, twenty to twenty-six; ventro- 

 internal, twenty-one to twenty-nine; ventro-mcdian carina, ten 

 to eleven, no lobes present on the margins; genicular lobes spinose, 

 subdepressecl; caudal tibiae faintly shorter than the four prox- 

 imal abdominal segments, the margins armed and developed as 

 on the median tibiae; caudal metatarsi slightly longer than the re- 

 maining tarsal joints, evenly cristato-lobate dorsad, the distal ex- 

 tremity of the lobe with three to six minute teeth. 



General coloration pinkish-cinnamon to kaiser-brown (unciues- 

 tionably green or a more uniform brownish in life), the femora, par- 

 ticularly the caudal pair, weakly washed with dark livid-purple, 

 while the tibiae are in part weakly light fluorite-green' to dull mala- 

 chite-green, this probably a trace of the original coloration. 



Length of body, 264.6 mm.; length of head, 12.5; length of pro- 

 notum, 7.3; length of mesonotum, 59.5; length of metanotum (in- 

 cluding median segment), 40.3; length of median segment, 19.7; 

 length of cephalic femur, 74; length of median femur, 56.5; length 

 of median tibia, 64.3; length of caudal femur, 59.4; length of caudal 

 tibia, 77.5; length of operculum, 24.2. 



The type of this striking species is unique. 



ACRIDIDAE. 



PROSCOPINAE. 

 Proscopia scabra Klug. 



1820. Proscopia scabra Klug, in Nees ab Esenbeck, Horae Phvsicae Berolin., 

 p. 19, pi. Ill, fig. 2. [Para, Brazil] 



Upper Amazon. Two females. [M. C. Z.] 



Brunner has recorded this species from "Provincia Alto Ama- 

 zonas." 



Corynorhynchus hispidus Klug. 



1820. Proscopia hispidn Klug, in Xees ab f^senbeck, Horae Phy-sicae 

 Berolin., p. 20, j)!. Ill, fig. 5. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



Rio de Janeiro. One male, one female. [M. C. Z.] 

 The female specimen is somewhat smaller than the original meas- 

 urements and is minus the caudal limbs, but it is clearly the opposite 

 «ex of the male now before us, and, when compared with a pair of 

 C. radula, their close relationship to the latter species is very appar- 

 ent. The specimens measure as follows: 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



cf 9 



Lenjj'th of body 62.8 mm. 83.5 mm. 



Lenccvh of head 9.3 " 14 



Len2;th of ro.stnim 1.8 " 4.4 " 



Length of pronotum 17.3 " 19.5 " 



Length of cephaUc femur 10.3 " 11.1 " 



Length of caudal femur 23 " 



Length of caudal tibia 25 " 



The form of the rostrum of the female is as figured by Brunner. 

 The apex of the male abdomen is more short clavate than in the 

 male of radula, the supra-anal plate is less sculptured and the sub- 

 genital plate' less pi'oduced, luit the general form of the region is 

 very similar. 



The species was previously known only from Bahia. 



ACRIDIXAE (Truxali)iae of authors). 



"Peruvia nigromarginata-' (Scudder). {Toropierjs mini tus of mo.st authors.) 



1875. MdchiKrocvia nigrotnarginata Scudder Proc. Boston Son. Nat. Hi-st., 

 XVII, p. 268. [Eastern slopes of the Peruvian Andes.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



This is the most eastern locality for the species. The previous 

 record from Rio de Janeiro, made by Bruner,^"^ refers to P. erisicornis 

 (Rehn), which is an east coast form. 



OMMEXECHINAE. 



Spathalium klugii (Biu-meister). 



1838. 0[f)unc.recha] klugii Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. II, 

 pt. I, p. 655. [Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Three males, one female. [Hebard Cln.] 

 These specimens are inseparable from the female from Chapada, 



Matto Grosso, previously recorded by us, first as cyanopterunf-' and 



afterward correctly as klugii ."^^ 



The species is known from Bahia, Santarem, Goyaz and Chapada, 



Brazil. 



LOCUSTINAE {Acridinae of most authors). 



Diedronotus laevipes (Stal). 



1878. T[rapidonolus\ laevipes Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. 

 Handl., V, no. 9, p. 20. [Sao Leopoldo, Brazil; Argentine Republic] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



This is the most northern as well as the extreme northeastern 



record for this species, which ranges south into northern Argentina 



and west to Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia (Bruner). 



2» For remarks on this name see Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, 

 p. 280, (1916). 



2« Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 23, (1911). 



■-' Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXVI, p. 110, (1909). 



28 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 329; footnote, fl913). 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.^ 



Zoniopoda fissicauda Bruner. 



1906. Zoniopoda fissicauda Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 653. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



This specimen, which is clearly the present species, has lost some 



of the brilliancy of its original coloration, as if it had been exposed 



to the continued action of a strong kilhng medium. It is slightly 



smaller than the measurements of the same sex given by Bruner. 



The two localities are the only ones from which the species is known. 



Zoniopoda collaris Bnmer. 



1911. Zoniopoda collaris Bruner. Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII. pp. 58, 60. 

 [Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Rio Verde, State of Goyaz. Three males. [Hebard Cln.] 

 These specimens agree with the original description of the unique 

 type except that all the pale areas are slightly pinkish, which, how- 

 ever, we feel is not normal but due to chemical action of a killing 

 medium. The species is known only from the two localities given 

 above. 



Diponthus bilineatus new species. (Plate X, figs. 13 and 15.) 



A close ally of D. crassiis Bruner (plate X, figs. 14 and 16), from 

 northeastern Argentina and eastern Paraguay, differing in the 

 slightly more elongate form (for the sex), in the slightly less de- 

 clivent fastigium, in the proportionately more longitudinal pro- 

 notum, the more distinctly angulate caudal margin of the disk of 

 the same, in the slightly more elevated medio-longitudinal section 

 of the metazona, in the more obhque caudal margin of the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum, in the more elongate, narrower tegmina, in 

 the more elongate male cerci, which surpass the apex of the supra- 

 anal plate and have their distal extremity distinctly decurved, and 

 in the coloration — the tegmina being non-reticulate but with the 

 humeral trunk and the anal angle contrastingly lined with yellow 

 on an olive-green ground, the caudal femora pinkish with a weaker 

 medio-longitudinal line on the external face and with the caudal 

 tibiae lacking the dark Hning of crassus and reddish on the internal 

 face, while the wing is more greenish hyaline, without the l)luish 

 wash seen in crassiis. 



Type — cf; Santa Catharina, Brazil. [Hebard Collection, Type 

 no. 411.] 



Size large (for the genus); form as in D. crassus; surface of the 

 head, pronotum and pleura strongly and closely cribroso-punctate. 

 Head with the vertex and fastigium considerably declivent, nar- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



rowly rounding into the slightly retreating facial line; interspace 

 between the eyes broad, ])ut little narrower than the fastigium; fas- 

 tigium distinctly broader than long, truncate cephalad, very shal- 

 lowly and broadly excavate; frontal costa dorsad nearly as wide as 

 the vertex interspace between the eyes, regularly narrowing ventrad 

 until on the lower face, at the ventral third of the face, it is less than 

 one-half the width at the fastigio-facial region, subobsolete in the 

 vicinity of the clypeal suture, closely and deeply cribroso-punctate 

 dorsad and ventrad, excavato-sulcate mesad, lateral margins well 

 indicated; lateral facial carinae arcuate, converging to the clypeal 

 base: eyes quite prominent, subovate in outline, faintly flattened 

 ventrad, in depth about one and one-half times that of the infra- 

 ocular portion of the genae: antennae about two and one-third times- 

 as long as the pronotal disk, thick, apex moderately acuminate. 



Pronotum of moderate length, the greatest caudal width of the disk 

 contained one and one-third times in the greatest dorsal length of 

 the same; in section the prozona of disk is arcuate, the metazona low 

 tectate; cephalic margin of disk broadly and shallowly angalato- 

 emarginate mesacl, caudal margin of disk regularly obtuse-angulate 

 with ■ the immediate angle narrowly truncate; prozona slightly 

 shorter than the metazona; median carina obsolete, being but faintly 

 indicated by strumosities between the punctures, lateral angles not 

 at all indicated on the prozona, well marked but not carinate on the 

 metazona; transverse sulci deeply impressed, the median one slightly 

 weaker on the dorsiun than the other two: lateral lobes with their 

 greatest depth subequal to the greatest dorsal length of the same; 

 ventro-cephalic angle of lobes obtusely rounded, ventral margin 

 obliquely truncate cephalad, thence truncate to the broadly rounded 

 ventro-caudal angle, caudal margin obliquely subconcave. Tegmina 

 reaching to but not surpassing the apex of the abdomen; costal 

 margin regularly broad arcuate, sutural margin nearly straight, apex 

 rather narrow, obliquely subtruncate; principal longitudinal veins 

 decided. Wings reaching to the apices of the tegmina. Prosternal 

 spine distinctly compressed, directed moderately caudad, blunt; 

 interspace between the mesosternal lobes faintly longitudinal, the 

 internal face of the lobes arcuate; interspace between the metasternal 

 lobes slightly transverse. 



Furcula developed as broad, depressed, well separated, acute 

 trigonal lobes, the external margin of which is straight, the internal 

 concave: supra-anal plate escutcheon-shaped, slightly constricted 

 proximad, of the same form found in D. crassus, a median rectangu- 




'248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



late transverse strumosity placed at distal third, the adjacent por- 

 tion of the lateral margins with a similar thickening, the section 

 of the plate distad of these elevations deflected from the plane 

 of the major portion of the plate; medio-longitudinal sulcus and 

 its tounding carinae indicated on the proximal two-thirds of the 

 plate, this area widening proximad: cerci straight, styliform, taper- 

 ing, the extremity moderately decurved and incurved, apex acute: 

 subgenital plate moderately full, faintly compressed dorso-proximad, 

 free margin weakly and broadly emarginate mesad. 



Cephalic and median femora moderately robust. Caudal femora 

 ■equal to slightly more than one-half the body length, similar to the 

 type found in crassus but more slender; caudal tibiae with ten 

 spines on the external margin. 



General color blackish-green, varied with shades of yellow-ocher, 

 pinkish red and purphsh. Head with a broad medio-longitudinal 

 bar of vinaceous-rufous covering occiput, vertex, fastigium and face, 

 except lateral margins of frontal costa, passing into the general 

 color on the genae; eyes tawny-olive; antennae dark slate-purple, 

 becoming dull brownish distad. Pronotum with a medio-longi- 

 tudinal bar of ochraceous-tawny, sharply delimited from the general 

 color, a narrow cephalic margin on the lateral lobes amber -yellow, 

 almost all of the metazona on the lateral lobes and a lateral section 

 of the dorsum of the same olive-ocher. Tegmina with the humeral 

 trunk and vicinity of the anal vein lined with olive -yellow; veins of 

 the general color on a greenish hyaline ground. Wings hyaline, 

 faintly washed with greenish toward the costal margins, principal 

 veins finely colored with the general shade. Abdomen tawny-olive 

 with the dorsum, aside from a continuous, narrow, medio-longi- 

 tudinal bar of the basic abdominal color, washed with blackish- 

 green, this disappearing ventro-laterad ; apex and internal margin 

 •of the furcula, strumosities of the supra -anal plate and apices of 

 cerci black. Limbs largely vinaceous -russet; caudal femora with a 

 median longitudinal line of blackish on proximal portion of the 

 paginae, internal face pale carmine, with three transverse areas of 

 blackish green — one premedian, one postmedian and the other cover- 

 ing the internal genicular area, external genicular area olive-citrine; 

 caudal tibiae on the external face colored the same as the femora, 

 on internal face pale carmine, external spines pale greenish tipped 

 with black, internal spines black. 



Length of body, 31 mm.; length of pronotum, 7; greatest caudal 

 width of pronotal disk, 5.2; length of tegmen, 22; length of caudal 

 femur, 16.8. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



The type is unique. 



• Chlorohippus roseipennis Brimer. 



1911. Chlorohippus roseipennis Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 88! 

 [Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



The present specimen agrees with Bruner's description of this 



interesting genus and species, except that the caudal margin of the 



pronotal disk is arcuate instead of subangulate as described, that 



the caudal tibiae have six instead of seven or eight spines on the 



external margin and the same tibiae are purplish-glaucous instead 



of oil-green as described. These differences appear to us to be 



individual, although future work may show the Goyaz and Chapada 



specimens to differ from one another in other unnoticed specific 



features. For the present, however, it is best to consider them as 



representing the same species. 



Copiocera erythrogastra (Perty). 



1834. Xiphiara erythrogastra Perty, Delect. Anim. Articul. Brasil., p. 122, 

 pi. XXIV, fig. 2. [Mountains of the Province of Minas Geraes, Brazil] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



It seems very probable that Marschall's euceros was based on 



the male sex of this species. The difference in antennal coloration 



mentioned by him may have been due to Perty's specimen having 



had the pale tips broken off. 



Episcopotettix sulcirostris Rehn. 



1902. Episcopotettix sulcirostris Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXIX, 

 p. 13. [Forest of San Juan, Mexico.^^j 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Two females. [Hebard Cln.] 

 These specimens appear to us to represent the previously unknown 

 female of this species. Certain features of difference from the male 

 type are very apparent, but of these several are clearly sexual and 

 the others are in all probability so. There exists, however, a possi- 

 bility that the Goyaz females may be specifically distinct from the 

 type of sulcirostris. The points of difference can be sunomarized as 

 follows. The fastigium is shorter and broader than in the type, 

 being distinctly shorter than the occiput, the dorsal surface not sul- 

 cate and distinctly lower than the level of the occiput, which latter 

 is appreciably arcuate dorsad; the frontal costa is broader, less 

 marked ventrad, with the sulcation distinct dorsad and subobsolete 



2^ We feel that the correctness of this locality is open to question, as all the 

 material seen since the original description came from South America. The 

 type had been dried from alcohol and labelled a number of years ago, by whom 

 ive do not know. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct,- 



ventrad; the fastigio-facial truncation is more rounded; antennae 

 much shorter and less strongly ensiform proximad. The wings have 

 the disk colored as in the male, but the anterior field is hyaline in- 

 stead of largely blackish-brown as it is, continuously with the disk, in 

 the male. The prosternal process, rather curiously, is unsymmetrical 

 in both females, Ireing transverse as in the male, tut having the 

 sinistral angle distinctly projecting in a moderately acute or sub- 

 bulbous projection, far more developed than the corresponding 

 dextral angle. The cerci of the female are very slender, tapering, 

 nearly reaching the tip of the supra-anal plate; ovipositor valves 

 elongate, the dorsal pair greatly produced, slightly more than twice- 

 as long as the cerci and nearly twice as long as the ventral valves, 

 strongly compressed, sublamellate, unarmed, tips blunt. The fas- 

 tigium and occiput bear a pair of fine l^lue-black lines, which gradu- 

 ally diverge caudad, these represented on the pronotum by paired 

 diffuse mottlings of the same shade, which color the punctations of 

 the regions they cover, the transverse sulci are lined with blue-black; 

 the impressed lines on the face and some of the punctations on the 

 same, blue-black; dorsum of the abdomen broadly nopal red; a 

 narrow line on the ventral section of the external face of the caudal 

 femora and the dorsal surface blue-black. 



The present specimens measure (in millimeters) as follows: 



Greatest Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of Length of Length of width caudal 



body head fastigium pronotum tegmen of tegmen femur 



44.5 9.8 4.6 5.6 37.5 (incomplete) 4.2 17 



47 10.3 4.8 6 41.3 4.2 18 



Bruner has reported a female of this species from South America 



without exact locality.^" 



TETTIGONIIDAE. 

 PHANEROPTERINAE. 



Hyperophora brasiliensis Bniuner. 



1878. H[yperophora] brasiliensis Brunner, Monogr. dor Phaneropt., p. 126. 

 [Brazil.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. March. (H. H. Smith; high- 

 land.) One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen is somewhat smaller than the original measurements 

 of the same sex, but otherwise it is not different as far as can be 

 determined from the very brief original description. The antennae 

 have well-separated pale annuli on a dark ground, the pale areas^ 



30 



Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 264; Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 90. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



more closely placed proximad, becoming more distant distad. The 

 females previously recorded by us as this species from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay,^' we find instead represent the previously unknown fe- 

 male of cerviformis Rehn.''^ The female of cerviformis is a larger 

 insect than brasiliensis, with a broader head as in the male, more 

 elongate tegmina, shorter, more regularly tapering and less attenuate 

 cerci, and much longer, more regularly arcuate ovipositor, which 

 latter has the apex acute and the margins with fewer well-spaced 

 teeth, which distad on the ventral margin are recurved. The sur- 

 face of the ovipositor in cerviformis is less shagreenous than in hrasili- 

 ensis. The selected allotype of cerviformis measures as follows: 

 length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 23.4 mm.; length of pro- 

 notum, 4.4; length of tegmen, 29.2; length of wing distad of tegmen, 

 7.5; length of caudal femur, 23.5; length of ovipositor, 9. 



Hyperophora peruviana Brunner." 



1891. Hyperophora peruviana Brunner, Verhandl. k.-k. Zool.-botan. 

 Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. .59. [Peru.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Two females. [Hebard Cln.] 

 These specimens are both in the green phase and subequal in size 

 to females from the province of Mendoza, Argentina, and appreci- 

 ably smaller than Sapucay, Paraguay representatives of the same sex. 

 The species is now known to range from Peru east to Goyaz, 

 Brazil, south to the Province of Mendoza, Corrientes and the terri- 

 tory of Misiones, Argentina. 



Uberaba brevicauda Bruner. 



191.5. Uberaba brevicauda Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 303. [Cba- 

 pada, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This specimen fully agrees with the description of this very inter- 

 esting genus and species. The genus is known only from the two 

 ocahties here mentioned. 



"Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 371, (1907). 



^^ Ibid., p. 371, figs. 2 and 6. 



'3 A revision of our previous records of H. major Brunner, and a careful examin- 

 ation of the few points given by Bruner for the separation of H. major and H. 

 peruviana have convinced us that we have examined but a single specimen of 

 the former species. This is the female from Embarcacion, Salta, Argentina, 

 recorded by us as a member of the Argentina series of major (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 360, (1913)). The remainder of the series there recorded, 

 the series from Sapucay, Paraguay {Ibid., 1907, p. 373, fig. 3, (1907)) and the male 

 from Yuto, Argentina {Ibid., 1915, p. 287, (1915)), all recorded as major, are 

 instead peruviana as we now understand it. It is possible true peruviana may 

 be different but these specimens are in accord with the very insufficient original 

 description. Peruviana as we understand it is a more elongate, more uniformly 

 narrower winged species than major, with more elongate limbs. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct..-. 



Ligocatinus sordidus new species. (Plate X, flgs. 17 and 18.) 



Allied to L. olivaceus (Brunner), from southeastern Brazil, Para- 

 guay and northern Argentina, having much in common, in addition 

 to the similar coloration of the two forms, but differing in the greater 

 size, narrower fastigium of the vertex, narrower fastigium of the 

 face, more distinctly longitudinal tegmina, which have a coarser 

 reticulation than those of olivaceus, in the proportionately more 

 slender and elongate limbs and in the decidedly more slender and 

 elongate ovipositor. We do not know the male of the species, but 

 are very certain it is not the female of L. long icercatus (Brunner) , 

 which was based on the male sex alone, as the size and coloration 

 are quite different. 



Type. — 9; Corumba, State of Matto Grosso, Brazil. March.. 

 (H. H. Smith, highland.) [United States National Museum.] 



Size medium, form more elongate and compressed than in L. 

 olivaceus. Head with the occiput and interocular space full and 

 strongly rounded, the latter moderately declivent to the fastigium, 

 which is narrow, compressed, sulcate dorsad, with the distal ex- 

 tremity weakly inflated, nearl}^ in contact with the acute-angulate 

 but apically blunted fastigium of the face, the outline of the fas- 

 tigium of the vertex, when seen from the side, being concave, the 

 juncture with the vertex proper marked by a slight inflation: eyes 

 large, quite prominent when seen from the dorsum, broad ovate in 

 basal outline with a distinct ventro-cephalic angle, their depth sub- 

 equal to that of the infra-ocular portion of the genae: antennae 

 about twice as long as the body, proximal joint nearly half as wide 

 as the eye. Pronotum not at all sellate, the dorsal line when seen 

 from the side being straight, lateral angles of the disk not marked 

 cephalad, weakly indicated caudad: disk with the cephahc margin 

 truncate, caudal margin broadly and strongly arcuate; caudal width 

 of the disk contained one and one-third times in the length of the 

 same; lateral margins of the disk gently and regularly diverging 

 caudad ; surface of the disk with a median V-shaped impressed figure : 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum with their greatest dorsal length 

 slightly less than their greatest depth; cephalic margin of the lobes 

 straight, ventro-cephalic angle roundly obtuse-angulate, ventral 

 and caudal margins broadly and regularly arcuate to the distinct, 

 rotundato-rectangulate humeral sinus. Tegmina elongate, the 

 greatest width (at proximal two-fifths) contained about six times in 

 the greatest length of the same; reticulations coarse and open com- 

 pared with those of L. olivaceus; costal and sutural margins sub-- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



parallel proxiniad, the tegmen somewhat narrowed in distal half, 

 apex narrowly rounded; humeral and discoidal veins non-attingent. 

 throughout, discoidal vein with one distinct distal ramus, mediart 

 vein diverging slightly proxiniad of the middle of the tegmina,. 

 biramose. Wings surpassing the tips of the tegmina by about two- 

 thirds of the dorsal length of the pronotum, apex of the closed wings 

 sutural and rectangulate, the costal margin arcuate to the apex. 

 Prosternum unarmed: meso-and meta-sternum strongly transverse,, 

 the former distinctly, the latter weakly emarginate mesad, caudo- 

 lateral angles of both plates strongly rounded. Supra-anal plate^* 

 moderately acute trigonal, surface plane: cerci simple, short, taper- 

 ing: ovipositor not strongly abbreviate and very deep as in olivaceus^ 

 but slightly bent at the base and faintly arcuate, the greatest depths 

 not more than one-half the length and the form narrowed distad;. 

 dorsal margin of the ovipositor very faintly arcuate-concave, the- 

 extremity of the dorsal valves narrowly rounded; ventral margin of 

 the ovipositor strongly arcuate throughout; all of the margins ex- 

 cepting the proximal third of the ventral margin with strong spini- 

 form teeth, which are directed disto-dorsad on the dorsal margin! 

 and appreciably recurved on the ventral margin, those distad on 

 the latter strongly recurved ; surface of the ovipositor with three lines. 

 of serrato-dentations and mesad irregularly scattered, low, rounded 

 tubercles: subgenital plate acute trigonal, compressed. Cephalic- 

 and median femora unarmed beneath; cephalic tibiae sulcate dorsad, 

 but margins without spines excepting the caudal apical one; fora- 

 mina open. Caudal femora four-fifths as long as the tegmina,. 

 strongly inflated proxiniad, distal half slender and the ventral mar- 

 gins there with not more than three spines, genicular lobes bispinose. 

 General color (apparently that of life) cinnamon, the tegmina 

 with their base color warm fuscous, the venation and reticulations 

 outhned in the general color proximad and in maroon distad; tibiae 

 and the distal half of caudal femora washed with ox-blood red, the 

 distal extremity of the caudal tibiae and the tarsi fuscous. Eyes, 

 brussels brown; antennae (aside from the proximal joint which is of 

 the general color) amber-brown, multi -annulate with fuscous, which 

 is the predominating color distad; face with the ventral margin of 

 the antennal scrobes, the clypeal suture and a pair of short, arcuate 

 vertical lines on the dorsal half, fuscous. Tegmina faintly greenshi 



'^ This is not clearly sepai'ated from the disto-dorsal abdominal segment, sa 

 the term is used in an analogous, not a strictly homologous, sense. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



mesad on the costal margin. Exposed portion of the wings colored 

 similarly to the distal portion of the tegmina. Abdomen with a 

 broad, medio-longitudinal, dorsal bar of shining black, which includes 

 the whole of the supra-anal plate; laterad of this bar the abdomen 

 bears a pair of deep-chrome areas. Femoral and tibial spines tipped 

 with black. Ovipositor teeth fuscous tipped. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 18.2 mm.; length of pro- 

 notum, 3.9; greatest (caudal) width of pronotal disk, 3.1; length of 

 tegmen, 24.2; greatest width of tegmen, 4.1, length of caudal femur, 

 19.1; length of ovipositor, 5. 



In addition to the type we have before us four paratypic females 

 bearing the same data as the type, except that two were taken in 

 April instead of March. The paratypes fully agree with the type 

 in all essential features. In coloration they have some variation in 

 the general tone, but the relative values remain the same. In one 

 individual, which is not the palest of the lot, the facial markings are 

 subobsolete. 



Ligocatinus minutus new species (Plate X, flgs. 19 and 20.) 



A strikingly small member of the olivaceiis-longicercatus-sordidus 

 group of the genus, which in size is hardly more than two-thirds 

 the bulk of the smallest of the previously known species. The 

 genitalia are nearest in type to those of longicercatus, but the sub- 

 genital plate is hardly emarginate, while the caudal femora are 

 unarmed beneath distad and the size, as already mentioned, is very 

 much less. From olivaceus the species differs chiefly, aside from the 

 smaller size, in the unspined ventral margins of the caudal femora, 

 the form of the cerci and in the short styles of the subgenital plate. 

 'The species sordidus is known only from the female sex, but the size 

 is quite different, the caudal femora are spined ventrad and the 

 .angle of the caudal margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is 

 more decided and less rounded. 



Type. — cf ; Goyaz, State of Goyaz, Brazil. [Hebard Collection, 

 Type no. 416.] 



Size quite small: form as usual in the genus. Occiput gently 

 rounded, regularly but strongly rounded to the fastigium, least 

 width between the eyes slightly less than the depth of one of the 

 eyes; fastigium compressed, weakly strumose proximad, distal por- 

 tion faintly bullions, sulcate dorsad, when seen from the lateral 

 aspect rounded, largely in contact with the fastigium of the face; 

 eyes moderately prominent, subreniform- ovate in basal outline, in 

 <lepth subequal to the infra-ocular portion of the genac; antennae 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



incomplete. Pronotum with the general form much as in sordidus 

 but with the disk broader, the greatest caudal width of same con- 

 tained one and one-third times in the greatest length: lateral lobes 

 with the general form more quadrate than in sordidus, the ventral 

 margin being obliquely arcuato-truncate caudad, the ventro-caudal 

 angle rotundato-rectangulate, humeral sinus as in sordidus. Teg- 

 mina but slightly exceeding the apices of the caudal femora, form 

 similar, reticulations slightly coarse; discoidal vein with three distal 

 rami, median vein diverging from the discoidal vein slightly proxi- 

 mad of the middle of the tegmina; stridulating field relatively 

 simple, no distinct tympanum, stridulating vein no stronger than 

 the other reticulations of the field. Wings surpassing the tegminal 

 apices. Sternal plates of the types found in L. sordidus, but the 

 meso-and metasternum are more decidedly transverse with the 

 caudo-lateral angles more broadly rounded. Disto-dorsal abdom- 

 inal segment arcuato-truncate dorso,-mesad, with a shallow and very 

 broad median emargination : supra-anal plate trigonal: cerci sur- 

 passing the subgenital plate, tapering, straight in the proximal four- 

 fifths, the distal fifth slightly flattened and bent inward and dorsad, 

 the immediate apex weekly uncinate, surface of the proximal por- 

 tion of the cerci delicately tuberculate: subgenital plate narrowing 

 distad, the distal margin truncate, styles very brief articulate nodes, 

 ventral surface of the plate with a medio-longitudinal carina and 

 converging paired ridges, which distad carry the styles. Caudal 

 femora four-fifths as long as the tegmina, rather strongly inflated 

 proximad, ventral margins unarmed, genicular lobes very weakly 

 l)ispinose: caudal tibiae subequal to the femora in length. 



General color chamois, becoming honey-j^ellow on the dorsum of 

 the abdomen, the tegmina with their base color and also that of the 

 wings mars -brown. Head with paired arcuate facial hues of mars- 

 brown; eyes auburn; antennae (incomplete) hazel, sparsely annulate 

 proximad with blackish. Tegmina with the stridulating field 

 largely chamois, the sutural margin netted with wax-yellow, the 

 humeral trunk, reticulations of the marginal and adjacent portion 

 of discoidal field and costal margin primuline-yellow proximad, 

 passing into bice-green distad. Abdomen with a broad medio- 

 dorsal blackish -fuscous line; cerci tipped with same. Caudal tibiae 

 pale absinthe -green, becoming ochraceous-tawny. 



Doubtless the original coloration of this insect was largely green 

 or greenish, as traces of green are evident on the disk of the pro- 

 notum. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.^ 



Length of body, 11.5 mm.; length of pronotum, 3.6, greatest dor- 

 sal (caudal) width of pronotal disk, 2.8, length of tegmen, 18.3; 

 greatest (median) width of tegmen, 3.6; length of caudal femur, 

 14.8. 



The type of this species is unique. 



Ligocatinus spinatus (Bninner). 



1878. A[maura] spinata Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 248, pi. V, 

 figs. 74a and 74b. [Buenos Aires, Argentina.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. March (one), no date (four). 

 One male, four females. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens are indistinguishable from a pair from Rosario 

 and a female from Buenos Aires, Argentina. 



The species was recorded from Corumba by Bruner.^^ 



Homotoicha fuscopunctata Caudell. 



1906. HomaLoicha (sic) fuscopunctata Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, 

 p. 236. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. May (two), June (one), July 

 (one), September (one), no date (three). (H. H. Smith.) Three 

 males, five females. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens have been compared with the male from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, previouoly recorded by us, ^*' a female from the same 

 locality and another from the Misiones Territory, Argentine, and 

 found to be identical, Bruner has recently recorded both sexes of 

 the species from Chapada,^' remarking that some little size varia- 

 tion was present in his series. The present representation shows 

 the same feature, which, however, does not interfere with the recog- 

 nition of the species, which is nearest in affinity to H. laminata 

 Brunner. The form of the male cerci is very distinctive, particu- 

 larly the structure of the apex. 



The species is known only from the localities mentioned above. 



Ceraia cornutoides Caudell. 



1906. Ceraia cornutoides Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 237. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. November. (H. H. Smith.) 

 One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. April. (H. H. Smith; high- 

 land.) One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens fully agree with males from Paraguay and a 

 female from Misiones, Argentina. It is worthy of note, from the 



35 Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 309, (1915). 



36 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. .376, fig. 9, (1907). 

 "Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 309, (1915). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



above females, that the subgenital plate of that sex is progressively 

 deeper in its emargination as material from more northern localities 

 is examined, this being shallowest in the Misiones individual and 

 almost fissate in the Chapada specimen. The lateral angles of the 

 plate are progressively produced as the incision deepens. 



Bruner has rcorded the species from both of the above localities 

 and Puerto Suarez, Bolivia. 



Scaphura nigra (Thunberg). 



1824. Gr[ylliis] niger Thunberg, Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., IX, p.. 

 415. [Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Three females. [Hebard Cln.J 

 Rio Verde, State of Goyaz. Three females. [Hebard Cln.j 

 These specimens represent about four stages in the color varia- 

 tions of this unstable species, of which numerous color forms have 

 been described as distinct species. One type is extremely close to 

 Kirby's figure of vigorsii, except that the proximal section of the 

 marginal field of the tegmina is as dark as the apex of the tegmina: 

 another is similar but paler, with the pronotum largely rufous and 

 the distal portion of the abdomen, particularly ventrad, similar- 

 probably near to ktrhii Westwood; the third has the rufescence gone 

 except from areas in the anal field, proximal section of the discoidal 

 field and a proximo-median patch in the marginal field of the teg- 

 mina, while the apex of the tegmina is pale ; the fourth form is nearly 

 typical 7iig7-a or chaJyhea, with immaculate or nearly immaculate 

 velvety black tegmina and strongly chalybeous abdomen. 



Stilpnochlora marginella (Serville). 



1839. Phylloptera marginella Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 40.5. [" Cape 

 of Good Hope."] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. (A. Koebele.) One male. [U. S, 

 N. M.] 



Theresopohs, State of Santa Catharina. One male. [M. C. Z.j 

 For comments on this species and its affinity to the other members 

 of its species group, see the recent paper by the author on the sub- 

 ject. ^^ Since the latter paper was written we have been able to 

 examine the type of Scudder's quadrata, and find it to be identical 

 with the material referred to that species by us. The type (male; 

 Guayaquil, Ecuador; Museum of Comparative Zoology) has been 

 badly damaged by insect pests at some time in the past, but its 

 characters are clearly evident. 



=»Entom. News, XXVIII, pp. 108-110, (1917). 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Anaulacomera^^ brevicauda Bninner. 



1891. Anaulacomera brevicauda Brunner, Verhandl. k.-k. Zool.-botan. 

 Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. 144. [Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. July and August. (H. H. 

 ^ Smith.) Four males. [U. S. N. M.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. July. fH. H. Smith.) One 

 Tnale. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens apparently represent the previously undescribed 

 male of the species. As far as can be determined from the ambi- 

 sexual characters given in the original description, our individuals 

 are conspecific with the female described by Brunner. The stridu- 

 lating field of the male tegmina is elongate and relatively narrow, 

 bearing two very conspicuous, ivory-white, subcircular areas, sur- 

 rounded and separated by a border of ox-blood red. The margin of 

 the disto-dorsal abdominal segment is faintly arcuato-emarginate 

 distad, while the supra-anal plate is of uncertain form, being buried 

 by the flexed cerci; the latter are simple, tapering, deplanate distad, 

 .straight in the proximal two-thirds, then moderately arcuate in- 

 wards, the apex blunt; subgenital plate rather short, narrowing dis- 

 tad, with a distinct median carina, the distal margin truncate with 

 the lateral angle produced into distinct, acute, substyliform pro- 

 cesses. A representative specimen measures as follows: length of 

 body, 14 mm.; length of pronotum, 4.3; length of tegmen, 25.5; 

 greatest width of tegmen, 5.6; length of caudal femur, 17.5 . 



The localities given above are apparently the only ones from 

 which the species has been reported, Bruner having already re- 

 corded it from Chapada.^" 



Anaulacomera bellator new specie.s. (Plate X, figs. 21 and 22.) 



Closely related to A. intermedia Brunner (plate X, fig. 23), with 

 .a male of which we have compared the new species, but differing 

 in the more roundly deflected lateral lobes of the pronotum, the 

 more narrowly rounded tegminal apices, somewhat longer limbs and 

 more strongly divergent sections of the male cerci, these divided 

 more proximad and the ventral section of which also carries on it 

 ■dorsal surface a short supplementary spine. 



^^ We find that the species described by us as Hjiperophrona signata (Peoc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907. p. 382, figs^ 14, 1.5 and l«i, (1907)), from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, is not a member of that genus, but instead an aberrant Anaulacomera, 

 more nearly related to A. brevicauda. From the latter species signata differs in 

 the proportionately broader tegmina, which are regularly elongate ovate, in the 

 less slender limbs, the more sharply hooked cereal apices and the distinctly 

 broader tymi:)anal field of the male tegmen. 



""Ann. Carncg. Mus., JX, p. 319, (191.'3). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Type. — cf ; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. November. (H.H.Smith.) 

 [United States National Museum.] 



Size medium: form moderately compressed. Head with the occi- 

 put moderately arcuate in transverse section, not at all declivent 

 cephalad; fastigium moderately compressed, faintly elevated and 

 slightly enlarged distad, sulcate dorsad, the lateral margins of the 

 dorsal surface faintly elevated proximad, cephalic face of the fas- 

 tigiimi cuneate, weakly excavate, well separated from the acuminate 

 frontal fastigium: palpi very elongate, extremely slender, the distal 

 joint moderately arcuate distad; eyes prominent, semiglobose, in. 

 basal outline circular: antennae incomplete in the type, proximal 

 joint large. Pronotum with the greatest caudal width of the disk 

 contained one and two-thirds times in the length of the same, the sur- 

 face of the disk moderately arcuate in transverse section cephalad 

 deplanate caudad, lateral angles weakly indicated caudad ; cephalic 

 margin of disk faintly arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin moderately 

 arcuate; an impressed figure, in the form of a broad W, placed 

 slightly caudad of the middle of the disk: lateral lobes of the pro- 

 notum slightly longer than deep; cephalic margin of lobes arcuato- 

 sinuate, ventro-cephalic angle obtusely rounded, ventral margin, 

 ventro-caudal angle and caudal margins broadly arcuate, regularly 

 passing from the ventro-cephalic angle to the humeral sinus, the 

 latter distinct but not deeply indicated, obtuse-angulate. Tegmina 

 elongate lanceolate, surpassing the apex of the abdomen by more- 

 than twice the length of the head and pronotum combined; greatest 

 width of tegmen contained four and one-half times in the length of 

 the same, greatest width of the marginal field at the proximal third 

 of the tegmen and there forming two-fifths of the entire tegminal 

 width; costal margin in general very weakly arcuate, very briefly 

 sharp arcuate proximad, distad regularly and decidedly arcuate to 

 the relatively narrow, but well rounded apex; sutural margin nearly 

 straight, moderately distad to the apex; marginal field irregularly 

 areolate, with about six or seven oblique, irregular rami of the 

 humeral vein, which are poorly dominant in the general areolation 

 of the field; median vein diverging from the discoidal very faintly 

 proximad of the middle of the tegmen, bifurcate, with the rami 

 reaching the sutural margin; ulnar vein markedly undulate, without 

 appreciable rami; discoidal field very closely and finely areolate, 

 these slightly larger distad, in the proximal half of the area betweeri 

 the discoidal and ulnar veins are placed a series of six to seven low 

 nodes in the reticulate areolation: stridulating field relatively nar- 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



row, moderately elongate, the margin very broadly obtuse-angulate 

 at the apex of the stridulating vein, the latter thick, depressed, 

 hardly arcuate. Wings surpassing the closed tegmina by about 

 two-thirds the length of the pronotal disk. Prosternum with a 

 broadly triangular figure: mesosternum with rounded obtuse-angu- 

 late lobes: metasternum with convergent, shallow, arcuate lobes. 

 Abdomen but little compressed, the dorsal surface rounded tectate: 

 disto-dorsal abdominal segment relatively short, subdepressed 

 dorsad, faintly declivent distad; distal margin sinuato-truncate 

 dorso-mesacl, lateral margins markedly bisinuate: cerci relatively 

 heavy, forked from the base, the rami strongly diverging, the dorsal 

 one erect, moderately inbowed or faintly inbent, tapering, the apices 

 acute spiniform, on the external and internal surfaces bearing three 

 longitudinal grooves, separated by distinct, sharp carinulae; ventral 

 ramus directed ventrad and slightly cephalad, when seen from the 

 caudal aspect directed slightly inwards toward the median hue of 

 the body, the ramus relatively thick, weakly channelled on the 

 internal face, the extremity somewhat thickened and rounded bul- 

 bous, with a blunt tooth on the internal face sUghtly proximad of 

 the extremity; at about the middle of the ventral ramus, on the 

 caudal face, there is present a slender, spiniform process, which is 

 nearly straight and is directed caudo-mesad: subgenital plate rela- 

 tively large, scoop-shaped, with a distinct, complete, median carina 

 and short lateral carinae on the distal section of the plate, the latter 

 carinae ending in very low, blunt tubercles, which form the lateral 

 angles of the distal margin of the plate; distal margin of the plate 

 not longer than two-thirds the length of the lateral margin of the 

 plate, faintly angulate emarginate; lateral margins of the plate 

 sinuato-arcuate. Cephalic femora more than five-sixths the length 

 of the pronotal disk; cephalic tibiae one-third longer than the cephahc 

 femora, very slender distad of the enlarged proximal section, audi- 

 tory foramina relatively large, elhptical on both faces. Median 

 Hmbs missing. Caudal femora but shghtly shorter than the body, 

 moderately slender, ventral margins spined distad, the external 

 with seven, the internal with five spines both genicular lobes with a 

 single spine; caudal tibiae surpassing the length of the femora by 

 about half the length of the pronotal disk, all margins continuously 

 spined, the dorsal ones more heavily so than the ventral ones. 



General color ranging from sayal-brown on the head, pronotum 

 and sides of the abdomen, to ochraceous-tawny on the dorsum of 

 the abdomen, and cinnamon-buff, the latter broadly washed with 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2G1 



light cress-green, on the tegmina and exposed portions of the wings. 

 The original color was probably more green than is now the case 

 with the type specimen, but to what extent we cannot say, and the 

 coloration described is that found in the present condition of the 

 individual. Eyes cinnamon-brown, blotched with fuscous. An- 

 tennae, except for the proximal portion which is of the general color, 

 clear kildare-green. Femora of the general color, tibiae weakly 

 light cress-green. 



Length of body, 21.8 mm.; length of pronotal disk, 5.3; greatest 

 (caudal) width of pronotal disk, 3; length of tegmen, 29.3; greatest 

 width of tegmen, 6.1; length of caudal femur, 19.8. 



The type of this most interesting species is unique. 



Anaulacomera libidinosa new species. (Plate X, figs. 24; PI. XI, fig. 25.) 



Apparently close to A. chelata Brunner, ha\Ting wdth the older 

 species a unique position in the genus by possessing an articulate 

 appendage attached to the cercus of the male, but differing from 

 chelata in the lateral lobes of the pronotum being longer than high, 

 and in the articulate arm of the cercus being of a more highly special- 

 ized, character, having the apex of the same blunt and depressed and 

 the ventral surface with an arcuate compresso-lamellate expansion. 

 Type. — cf ; Bonito, State of Pernambuco, Brazil. January 16, 

 1883. (A. Koebele.) [United States National Museum.] 



Size medium: form distinctly compressed, deep: surface of limbs 

 shining, of most of body dull. Head slightly broader across genae 

 than caudad of the eyes; face faintly bullate, slightly compressed 

 and the infra-antennal region impressed: palpi elongate, slender: 

 -eyes moderately prominent, faintly flattened subglobose when seen 

 from the dorsum, slightly projecting cephalad, basal outline sub- 

 circular: antennae slender, proximal joint relatively large. Pro- 

 notum with the disk narrow, its greatest caudal width contained 

 about one and two-thirds times in the greatest length of the same, 

 surface of the disk faintly arcuate transversely cephalad, deplanate 

 caudad, lateral angles moderately indicated caudad, more rounded 

 cephalad, surface of the disk with a fine medio-longitudinal sulcation, 

 across which, shghtly caudad of the middle of the disk, is placed an 

 obtusely-angulate sulcation, which does not reach the lateral angles 

 of the disk; surface of the cephahc portion of the disk slightly riigu- 

 lose: cephalic margin of the disk truncate, caudal margin of the disk 

 moderately arcuate : lateral lobes of the pronotum slightly longer 

 than deep, nearly vertical; cephahc margin arcuato-emarginate, 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Qct., 



ventro-cephalic angle rounded obtuse, ventral margin oblique sub- 

 truncate, ventro-caudal angle and caudal margin broadly and regu- 

 larly arcuate, humeral sinus moderately decided, rounded rectangu- 

 late. 



Tegmina about half again as long as the body, lanceolate, the 

 greatest width contained slightly more than three and two-thirds 

 times in the length of the same, the marginal field at the proximal 

 third of the tegmen forming two-fifths of the entire tegminal width: 

 costal margin well arcuate proximad and distad, flattened mesad, 

 apex moderately narrowed but well rounded, sutural margin gently 

 arcuate: marginal field with numerous but coarse areolations, which 

 are deeply etched, among which there stands out above seven poorly 

 defined ol^lique rami of the humeral vein; median vein diverging 

 slightly distad of the middle of the tegmen, this bifurcate with the 

 rami reaching the sutural margin shortly proximad of the apex, 

 these and the ulnar vein much fractured and in consequence some- 

 what zig-zag in their direction, the areolations of the discoidal field 

 in general, but particularly proximad, finer than those of the mar- 

 ginal field: stridulating field relatively small, the margin rounded 

 obtuse-angulate at the apex of the stridulating vein, the latter 

 slightly oblique, gently arcuate, distinctly depressed, thickened. 

 Wings with the normally exposed portion projecting distad of the 

 tegmina a distance equal to the length of the pronotal disk, the 

 form of the apex narrowly rounded acute. 



Prosternum with a broadly V-shaped carinate elevation: meso- 

 sternal lobes very small, rounded rectangulate, convergent: meta- 

 sternal lobes similar to the mesosternal lobes but slightly larger. 

 Disto-dorsal abdominal segment .moderately cucullate, the mar- 

 gin arcuate-emarginate laterad around the cereal bases, the distal 

 margin proper (mesad) shallowly arcuate-emarginate: cerci with 

 the main (ventral) shaft about two-thirds as long as the disk of 

 the pronotum, weakly compressed, gently falciform, tapering in 

 proximal half, subequal in distal half where the width is little more 

 than half that at the base, the apex with an unguiculate spine; 

 dorsal articulate section of the cercus about half again as long as 

 the ventral portion, straight, at the middle on the ventral surface 

 there is developed a low but distinct lamellation, which is regu- 

 larly arcuate proximad, oblique subtruncate distad, the angle nar- 

 rowly rounded, the general form of this lamellation strongly sug- 

 gesting the femoral lobes of certain mantids of the subfamilies 

 Vatinae and Empusinae, the distal section of this arm of the cercus 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



is depressed and when seen from the dorsum spatulate: subgenital 

 plate broad, shghtly scoop-shaped, regularly narrowing distad, 

 distal margin of the plate so damaged that its true form cannot 

 be determined, the styles also being missing, but the latter were 

 in all probability well developed, as tubular sockets in which they 

 were placed are indicated in the remaining section of the distal 

 portion of the plate. 



Cephalic femora subequal to the disk of the pronotum in length; 

 cephalic tibiae surpassing the femora in length by about one-fourth 

 of the femoral length, very slender except in the proximal fourth^ 

 auditory tympani elliptical. Median femora half again as long 

 as the pronotal disk; median tibiae surpassing the femoral length 

 by about that of the distal tarsal joint. Caudal femora nearly 

 three-fifths as long as the tegmina, moderately inflated proximad, 

 slender distad, moderately compressed proximad, ventral margins 

 armed with three to four (external) and two (internal) spines ; caudal 

 tibiae one and one-fifth times as long as the femora, compressed, 

 deeper proximad than distad, armed on the dorsal margins with 

 distinct spines, those of the internal margin more numerous than 

 those of the external and differing from those on the latter margin 

 in being erect and not diverging, between the spines is present a 

 continuous, distinct and deep sulcus, ventral margins with rela- 

 tively few spines, these mainly distad. 



Original coloration of the specimen destroyed by immersion at 

 some time in a liquid preservative. Present color wood-brown, 

 the tegmina verona brown. 



Length of body, 17.2 mm.; length of pronotum, 4.9; greatest (cau- 

 dal) width of the pronotal disk, 2.9; length of tegmen, 27; greatest 

 width of tegmen, 6.8; length of caudal femur, 21.2; length of caudal 

 tibia, 18.5. 



The type of this species is unique. 



Anaulacomera sulcata Brunner. 



1878. A[nanlacomera] sulcata Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., pp. 279, 

 289. [Brazil; Peru.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This specimen fully agrees with the original description and is 

 inseparable from an individual of the same sex from Rio de Janeiro, 

 in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 w^hich was determined as sulcata by Saussure, from whom it was 

 received. The species has been questionably recorded from Rio 

 de Janeiro by Bruner. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Grammadera rostrata Rehn. 



1907. Grammadern rostrata Rehn, Prof>. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 

 378, figs. 10 and 11. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. March. (H. H. Smith; low- 

 land.) One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen has been compared with the type and found to be 

 inseparable. The size is very faintly smaller, and the ovipositor is 

 faintly more arcuate proximad on the ventral margin, but otherwise 

 the two are identical. 



Corumba and Sapucay are the only localities known for the species. 



Grammadera chapadensis Bruner. 



1915. Grammadera cha-padensis Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 321. 

 [Chapada, Matto Gros.so, Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. November. (H. H. Smith.) 

 Two males, two females. [U. S. N. M.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. Four females. [Hebard Cln.] 



These specimens fully agree with the description of cha-padensis, 

 which is certainly close to albida Brunner. Just how it differs 

 from the older species is not at all clear, as the form of the supra-anal 

 plate of the male, which is said in the original description of chapa- 

 densis to be the chief characteristic of the species, shows no differ- 

 ences which would not be covered by Brunner's brief description of 

 this area in albida. 



The material from Sapucay, Paraguay and Misiones, Argentina 

 which we had previously referred to albida,*^ we now know does not 

 belong to that species, but instead represents G. steinbachi Brunerj^^* 

 a species which at the time of our references was undescribed. In 

 consequence we do not know albida Brunner, to which, however, 

 chapadensis is very close. 



The localities given above are the only ones known for the species. 



Phylloptera^' quinque-maculata Bruner. 



1915. Phylloptera quinque-maculata. Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 325. 

 [Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. July and October. (H. H. 

 Smith; campo [October].) Two males, one female. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens are perfectly typical of Bruner 's species. One 

 male is more brownish than the other individuals, while in all the 

 dorso-caudal section of the pronotal disk is strongl}^ colored. 



^1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 377, [Sapucay, Paraguay]; Ibid., 

 1913, p. 371, [Misiones, Argentina]; Ibid., 1915, p. 287> [Misiones, Argentina]. 

 ^^Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 322. [Puerto Suarez, Bolivia.] 

 ^^ At this writing we have before us the unique female type of Phylloptera 

 tripunctata Scudder (Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist.; XVII, p. 261, (1875)), described 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Phylloptera phyllopteroides (Brimner). 



187S. Plaruhli'ta] phyllopteroides Bruaner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 254. 

 [Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One male, two females. [Hebard Cln.] 



This is apparently the first record of the species with exact data. 



Phylloptera tenella new species. (Plate XI, figs. 26, 27 and 28.) 



A close relative of P. alliedea Caudell, from Paraguay," and P. 

 cognata Rehn, described below, but particularly close in its relation- 

 ship to the former. ■ From alliedea the present species differs in its 

 considerably smaller size, more robust proximal portion of the cau- 

 dal femora and the more bent, shorter and blunter ovipositor. The 

 form of the latter strongly approaches that of the ovipositor of P. 

 cognata, but in proportions it would hold an intermediate position, 

 as the apex is more acute and the disto-dorsal section of the margin 

 is by no means as coarsely spined as in cognata. 



Type. — 9; Corumba, State of Matto Grosso, Brazil. March. 

 (H. H. Smith; highland.) [United States National Museum.] 



Size medium: form compressed. Head with the fastigium narrow, 

 acuminate, sulcate, moderately declivent, hardly in contact with 

 the .fastigium of the face, the latter moderately acuminate: palpi 

 elongate, slender, the distal joint arcuate: eyes not prominent, 

 faintly compressed, slightly projecting cephalad, in basal outline 

 slightly ovate. Pronotum with the disk deplanate, relatively broad, 

 the greatest caudal width contained one and one-fifth times in the 

 greatest length of the same; cephalic margin of the disk concave 

 with a faint angulate tendency, caudal margin of the disk strongly 

 arcuate; surface of the disk with a distinct but narrow medio-longi- 

 tudinal sulcus, a median figure forming wdth the sulcus the letter ^'; 

 lateral angles distinct, rectangulate, subcarinate: lateral lobes 

 slightly deeper than long; cephalic margin of the lobes weakly con- 

 cave, ventro-cephalic angle moderately rounded, ventral margin 



from the "Eastern slopes of the Peruvian Andes." Brunner, in 1878 (Monogr. 

 der Phaneropt., p. 314), suggested the possibility of the species being the same 

 as his there described P. serva, while, in 1896, Scudder (Proc. Boston Soc. 

 Nat. Hist., XXVII, p. 213) stated it appeared to be a Homotoicha. Kirby in 

 his catalogue (Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 4.50, (1906)), placed tripunctata in Para- 

 scudderia. As a matter of fact the species is a Phylloptera, rather aberrant in 

 certain features it is true, but it is the same as either P. nigro-nuricvlata or hrevi~ 

 lamulosa Brunner (Verhand. k.-k. Zool.-botan. Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. 162, (1891 )), 

 from the Upper Amazons. It agrees in structure and coloration vevy fidly with 

 breviramidosa, but in addition has the tegminal margins and cephalic tibiae 

 colored as in nigro-annulata. The safer course appears to us to be the synonym- 

 izing of breriramulosa under tripunctata. The type is in bad condition, having 

 been dried from alcohol. 

 « Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 238, (1906). 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.,. 



broadly arcuate, ventro-caudal angle not indicated, the ventral 

 margin passing regularly into the arcuate caudal margin, humeral 

 sinus well indicated, rounded obtuse-angulate. 



Tegmina surpassing the apex of the abdomen by the greater por- 

 tion of the length of the caudal femora, its length slightly more 

 than six times that of the disk of the pronotum, its greatest width 

 contained two and four-fifths times in the greatest length of the 

 same: costal margin regularly and rather strongly arcuate, sutural 

 margin similarly arcuate, apex broadly rounded acute: marginal 

 field at its widest point forming about two-fifths of the entire teg- 

 minal width at that point: median vein diverging at two-fifths 

 of the tegminal length from the base, bifurcate, the arms reaching 

 the sutural margin very shortly before the apex; ulnar vein with 

 two distinct rami ; transverse nervures of the discoidal field rela- 

 tively few, rather regularly placed, those distad slightly oblique, 

 the "dead-" spots placed one on each of the ulnar rami close to the 

 main vein, the third covers the short transverse nervures connecting 

 the ulnar vein and the pi-oximal fork of the median vein: anal field 

 narrow, elongate. Wings but slightly projecting distad of the 

 closed tegmina, the apex moderately acute when closed, when the 

 wing is expanded the apex is rotundate rectangulate. 



Mesosternal lobes relatively small, acute: metasternal lobes 

 rectangulate, arcuate laterad. Abdomen distinctly compressed, 

 moderately carinate dorsad, aside from the two dorsal segments: 

 disto-dorsal abdominal segment short, weakly sulcate medio-longi- 

 tudinally, the margin rather briefly sinuato-emarginate on each 

 side of the sulcus : supra-anal plate trigonal, briefly and shallowly 

 sulcate proximad: cerci tapering, falciform, relatively thick proxi- 

 mad, the extremity slender: ovipositor one and two-fifths times 

 as long as the disk of the pronotum, strongly compressed, deep, 

 regularly falcate, the dorsal margin serrulate in the greater portion 

 of its length, the denticulations regularly increasing in size distad, 

 ventral margin with recurved denticulations for a short distance 

 distad, apex of the two valves together moderately acute; surface 

 of ovipositor with depressed shagreenous teeth: subgenital plate 

 trigonal, deeply sulcate medio-longitudinally, this bounded laterad 

 by converging, elevated, rounded ridges. 



Cephalic femora very slightly longer than the pronotal disk,, 

 ventro-internal margin armed distad with two to three spines; 

 cephalic tibiae with the auditory foramina elongate elliptical. Cau- 

 dal femora about three-fifths as long as the tegmen, moderately^ 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



inflated proximad, appreciably compressed, ventro-external margin 

 with six spines, ventro-internal margin with five to eight spines, 

 genicular lobes bluntly bispinose: caudal tibiae faintly longer than 

 the femora, subcompressed, particularly proximad, the dorsal mar- 

 gins sublamellate carinate, multispinose, the ventral margins less 

 thickly spined, dorsal surface moderately deplanate impressed. 



Allotype. — cf; Same data as type. [United States National 

 Museum.] 



Differing from the above description of the type in the following 

 features. Stridulating field of the tegmina with its margin oblique 

 arcuate to the apex of the stridulating vein, there rounded and 

 distad very faintly arcuate the remainder of its length; stridulating 

 vein thick, strongly depressed, in fact flattened, in the greater por- 

 tion of its length transverse, narrowing distad, the distal margin of 

 the vein with a distinct cingulate ridge. Disto-dorsal abdominal 

 segment with the sinuate-emarginate character of the margin much 

 less decided than in the female, yet appreciable: cerci strongly falcate . 

 dorso-mesad, slightly thickened proximad, elsewhere uniform in 

 thickness, the extremity not acuminate, armed with two low, very 

 blunt teeth: subgenital plate with the lateral margins regularly 

 narrowing distad, the distal extremity very narrowly arcuate- 

 emarginate, the bases of the styles developed as short projections 

 on each side of the distal emargination, these projections repre- 

 sented and continued over the plate for some distance by slightly 

 diverging rounded ridges; styles short, their length subequal to the 

 distance between their bases, simple. Caudal femora with the 

 ventro-external margin bearing fom- to five spines; ventro-internal 

 margin with four to five spines. 



General color honey yellow to clay color (doubtless discolored), 

 the distal three-fifths or all of the tegmina courge-green, the vena- 

 tion in the green sections lined with light hellebore-green, the " dead " 

 area mummy-brown. Normally exposed portion of the wings col- 

 ored similarly to the tegmina. Eyes buckthorn-brown. Limbs 

 proximad of the general color, passing on the distal section of the 

 femora and the tibiae to course- and biscay-greens, these more de- 

 cided on the caudal limbs. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



In addition to the type and allotype we have before us two male 

 and one female paratypes which bear the same data as the type, 

 except that all three of them were taken in the month of April. 

 These specimens show no noteworthy variation from the above 

 descriptions, except in furnishing data on the variability of femoral 

 spine formulae. The cephalic femora have on the internal face 

 distad from two to four spines, while the caudal femora are armed 

 on the external margin with from four to six (generally five) spines, 

 the internal with from four to eight spines. 



Phylloptera cognata new species. (Plate XI, figs. 29, 30 and 31.) 



Closely related to P. alliedea Caudell, from Sapucay, Paraguay,*^ 

 agreeing in the sulcation of the cephalic femora, the form of the 

 sternal lobes and the general form, but differing in the more elongate 

 basal outline of the eyes, the axis of which is more oblique dorso- 

 caudad, the more compressed fastigium of the face, the propor- 

 tionately narrower tegmina and the shorter, much broader (propor- 

 tionately) and distinctly bent ovipositor, the apex of which is dorsad 

 and sharply narrowed and on the distal portion of the dorsal margin 

 is strongly dentate. From the above described tenella, cognata can be 

 separated readily by its larger size, the shape of the eyes and the 

 stouter and more abbreviate ovipositor. The male of the species is 

 unknown. 



Type. — 9 ; Chapada, State of Matto Grosso, Brazil. August. (H. 

 H. Smith.) [United States National Museum.] 



Size medium: form compressed: surface dull, mat, the tegmina and 

 exposed portion of the wings coriaceous. Head in general form 

 similar to that of tenella: fastigium faintly longer and more regularly 

 narrowing than in tenella; fastigium of the face as in teiiella, median 

 ocellus large: face bullate to the same degree and laterally com- 

 pressed in similar fashion to that of tenella: palpi equally slender but 

 slightly shorter than in tenella: eyes in basal outline distinctly ovate, 

 the axis oblique: antennae reaching at least as far as the tips of the 

 tegmina. 



Pronotum as in tenella except that the ventro-cephahc angle of 

 the margin of the lateral lobes is more obtuse and less rounded. 

 Tegmina very similar to those of tenella, but the apex is slightly 

 more sharply rounded. Sternal lobes of the type found in tenella, 

 but they are individually slightly more longitudinal. Apex of 

 the abdomen as in tenella, with the following differences: oviposi- 



« Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 238, (1906). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



tor subequal in length to the disk of the pronotum, strongly com- 

 pressed, moderately deep, bent dorsad very close to the base, apex 

 of the two valves together broader and blunter than in tenella, 

 the dorsal margin serrulate distad, the ventral margin recurved 

 denticulate distad. 



Cephalic femora armed on the ventro-internal margin with four 

 spines distad. Caudal femora about four-sevenths as long as the 

 tegmen, general form as in tenella, ventro-external margin wdth 

 six to nine spines, ventro-internal margin with four to six spines: 

 caudal tibiae as in tenella. 



General color of the body and limbs antimony yellow to ochraceous- 

 buff, darkening on the ventral surface of the abdomen to tawny, 

 tegmina, exposed portion of the wings and to a certain extent the 

 dorsum of the pronotum, courge-green, the veins frequently, and to 

 a variable degree, hned with light hellebore-green, the "dead" 

 spots mummy brown and variable in size, occasionally but two being 

 present. Eyes buckthorn-brown. Tibiae courge-green, the ex- 

 tremities of the caudal femora weakly of the same color. In life 

 the body coloration was in all probal^ility green or greenish, that of 

 the, tibiae probably being a remnant of the natural color. 



Length of body, 19 mm.; length of pronotum, 4.5; greatest (cau- 

 dal) width of pronotal disk, 3.9; length of tegmen, 32; greatest 

 width of tegmen, 10.9; length of caudal femur, 18.5; length of ovi- 

 positor, 5. 



In addition to the type we have before us two paratypic females,, 

 which bear the same data as the type, except that one was taken in 

 the month of July instead of August. These specimens show no 

 noteworthy differences from the type. One of the specimens has. 

 lost the cephalic femora and the other has but a single one ; in this latter 

 the femur has but a single spine on the ventro-cephalic margin. 

 The ventro-external margin of the caudal femora has the spines 

 seven or eight in number, of the ventro-internal margin six to eight 

 in number. These figures make the known variation in the for- 

 mulae of these margins for the species, six to nine and four to eight 

 respectively. 



Phylloptera ovalifolia Burmeister. 



1838. Ph[ijUoptera] ovalifolia Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, Abth II, 

 pt. I. p. 693. [South America.] 



Rio de Janeiro, State of Rio de Janeiro. November. One male. 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



This species previously has been recorded from Rio de Janeiro, 

 Theresopolis and Santa Catharina, Brazil. 




270 PROCEEDIIsTGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Phylloptera spinulosa Brunner. 



1878. Ph[ijlloptera] spinulosa Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 314. 

 [Ypanema, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Rio Verde, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. March and April. (H. H. 



Smith; highland.) Three females. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens show a great amount of size variation, which 



appears to have some geographic correlation. 



The Corumba specimens are of a uniformly medium size, while the 



Rio Verde female is quite large, and the Goyaz male the smallest 



individual of the species we have seen, much smaller than a Sapucay 



male, the only other individual of that sex at hand. The tegmina 



of one Corumba individual are unmarked, of another with a single 



small ocellar spot on the ulnar vein at the base of its first ramus, 



and the third with a relative large greenish-white ocellar spot in the 



same position. The Rio Verde female has no tegminal spots, and 



the Goyaz male is similar in this respect to the second Corumba 



individual mentioned above. There is considerable variation in 



the relative width of the tegmina, which is apparently individual 



in character. 



The species is now known to range from the State of Goyaz west 



to at least Corumba, south to Sapucay, Paraguay and the Misiones, 



Argentina. 



Pycnopalpa bicordata (Serville). 



1825. L[ocusta] bicordata Serville, Encycl. Method., Ins., X, p. 343. [Bra- 

 zil.] 



Rio de Janeiro, State of Rio de Janeiro. November and Decem- 

 ber. (H. H. Smith.) Two males. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens show some difference in size, but are clearly 

 identical. Bruner has recorded the species from this locality. 



Pycnopalpa rubiginosa (Brimer). 



1915. Topana rubiginosa Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 330. [Cha- 

 pada, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. July. (H. H. Smith.) One 

 male. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen fully agrees with the original description except 

 for its faintly smaller size. We feel that Bruner was not correct in 

 placing this species in Topana, as a careful comparison of it with 

 the genotypes of Topana and Pycnopalpa shows more features of 

 agreement with the latter than with the former. The cingulate 

 disk of the pronotum, the form of the palpi, the number of spines 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



on the ventro-cephalic margin of the cephalic femora, the form of 

 the stridulating field of the male tegmina and the color distribution 

 at the base of the tegmina are as in Pycnopalpa, while the tegminal 

 venation and the non-erose character of the tegmina are as in To- 

 pana. As the majority of the striking features accord with Pycno- 

 palpa this association is clearly the more justifiable course to pur- 

 sue, although nibiginosa is a definite proof of the common origin of 

 the two genera. 



Topana cincticornis (StS^l). 



1873. P[lagioptera] cincticornis Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandl., 

 XXX, p. 4.3. [Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. April, July and August. (H. 

 H. Smith; one labelled ''highland".) One male, four females. 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



Bruner''« has recorded the species from this locality. These 

 specimens agree with Stal's description, but are somewhat smaller 

 than the measurements given for the species by Brunner. The 

 species has been definitely recorded from Rio de Janeiro, Nova Fri- 

 burgo, Matto Grosso and Chapada, Brazil, and Luque, Paraguay, 

 as well as general ''Brazil" and "Paraguay" records. 



Diplophyllus ensifolius Saussure. 



1859. Ph[ijlloptera {Diplophyllus)] ensifolia Saussure, Revue et Magasin de 

 Zoologie, 2e ser., XI, p. 202. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



Corumba, State of Matto Grosso. March. (H. H. Smith; 

 highland.) One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen agrees with the two previous descriptions (Saussure 

 and Brunner), which were based on the male sex, but has the teg- 

 mina shorter (33 mm. instead of 39) and narrower (10 instead of 11) 

 than Brunner's measurements of the same. When compared with a 

 female of D. pundatus (Stal), from Montserrat, West Indies, ensi- 

 folius is seen to be a more slender insect, with less globose eyes, 

 more regularly lanceolate and less angulate tegmina, and much 

 more elongate, narrower and regularly arcuate ovipositor, which 

 has the distal third of its dorsal margin crenulato-serrate and the 

 same portion of the ventral margin recurved serrato-dentate. The 

 length of the ovipositor is 9.6 mm.; the median depth of the same, 

 1.9. 



«Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 330, (191.5J. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Microcentrum lanceolatum (Burmeister) . 



1838. Ph\ylloptera] lanceolnla Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II. abth. 

 II, pt. 1, p. 692. [Brazil.] 



Rio de Janeiro, State of Rio de Janeiro. November. (H .H. 

 Smith.) Two males. [U. S. N. M.] 



The present widely distributed species has been recorded from 

 this locality by Brunner and Bruner. 



Lobophyllus reversus new species. (Plate XI, figs. 32 and 33.) 



A striking species, differing chiefly from L. legurnen Saussure, from 

 "Brazil," the genotype and only previously known species, in the 

 more subequal dorsum of the pronotum, the much more ample teg- 

 mina, the distal portion of which is much wider, in the transverse 

 veins of the marginal field of the tegmina being directed proximad, 

 in the ramus of the median vein being proximad extremely close to 

 the median vein, in the more regular disposition and correlation of 

 the rami of the median and ulnar veins and in the caudal tibiae 

 slightly surpassing instead of being shorter than the femora. The 

 ovipositor of the new species is quite different from that of legumen, 

 being proportionately shorter and broader with a rotundato-trun- 

 cate apex and the margin of the same section denticulate. 



Type. — 9 ; Goyaz, State of Goyaz, Brazil. [Hebard Collection, 

 Type no. 473.] 



Size large: form moderately compressed: surface unpolished, teg- 

 mina and exposed portions of wings coriaceous, wdth a faint gloss. 

 Head with its greatest width slightly greater than the depth from 

 the occipital margin to the clypeal suture: occiput bullato-arcuate 

 transversely, regularly arcuato-declivent from the caudal portion 

 of the occiput to the fastigial suture: fastigium of the vertex very 

 broad, faintly broader than the greatest dimension of the eye, not 

 at all elevated above the general level of the head, broadly in con- 

 tact with the equally wide and similarly constructed fastigium of 

 the face, the inter-fastigial suture straight: surface of the fastigia 

 and vicinity cribroso-punctulate, the occiput and genae with scattered 

 indications of the same: eyes little prominent, relatively small, in 

 basal outline subcircular, with a slight flattening cephalad: antennae 

 not reaching to the apex of the abdomen, aside from the two prox- 

 imal joints very slender. 



Pronotum with the length of the disk about one and one-fourth 

 times the greatest width of the head, the greatest (caudal) width 

 of the disk contained one and one-fourth times in the length of 

 the same; disk nearly subequal in width; the lateral margins faintly 

 diverging, regularly, caudad, the cephalic width equal to about 

 nine-tenths the caudal width; cephalic margin of the disk arcuate- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



emarginate with a faint median tooth, caudal margin of the disk 

 strongly arcuate with a weak, shallow median emargination; lateral 

 margins of the disk rectangulate in caudal two-thirds, olituse in 

 cephalic third, rounded in both sections, cut at one-third their 

 length from the cephalic margin by a very brief sulcus, which does 

 not extend over the disk of the pronotum, the latter with a broad 

 V-shaped figure faintly cephalad of the middle, when seen from 

 the side the portion of the disk caudad of this figure is plane, while 

 that cephalad of the same is regularly ascending cephalad: lat- 

 eral lobes of the pronotum slightly deeper than long, the dorsal 

 length contained one and one-fifth times in the depth; cephalic 

 margin arcuato-emarginate, ventro-cephalic angle rounded obtuse, 

 the ventral margin relatively short, oblique, rotundato-truncate, 

 ventro-caudal angle broadly rounded-rectangulate, caudal margin 

 flattened arcuate, slightly oblique ventro-cephalad in direction, 

 humeral sinus relatively small, but acute and sharply indicated: 

 surface of disk and lobes cribroso-punctulate, the indentations finer 

 cephalad on the disk and the dorsal section of the lateral lobes than 

 elsewhere. 



Tegmina elongate and ample, their length slightly greater than 

 one and two-thirds times the body length, the greatest width con- 

 tained two and one-third times in the greatest length of the same, 

 the general form of the tegmen acuminate ovate-lanceolate, the 

 greatest width at five-eighths of the length from the base: costal 

 margin regularly and strongly arcuate, apex slightly acute, the 

 immediate apex rather narrowly rounded, sutural margin faintly 

 arcuate distad to the distal third, thence broadly arcuate and in the 

 remainder of the margin (subapical portion) oblique subtruncate to 

 the apex: marginal field very broad in the proximal two-thirds of 

 the tegmina, distad of this point the curving of the humeral trunk 

 restricts the marginal field to a mere edging, the greatest width of 

 the field (at the proximal third of the tegmen) slightly more than 

 one-third of the greatest tegminal width and two-fifths of the entire 

 tegminal width at the proximal third; anal field relatively narrow 

 and elongate: mediastine vein short, subobsolete; rami of the humeral 

 vein, which cross the marginal field, all regularly trend in the direc- 

 tion of the base of the tegmen as they diverge toward the costal 

 margin, these rami more numerous and crowded distad; humeral 

 trunk sigmoid, the arcuate at the distal third very decided w^hen 

 compared with that at the proximal third; median vein diverging 

 from the discoidal vein very shortly before the middle of the tegmen, 




'274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



for a short distance pai-alleling the discoidal vein, bifurcate then 

 diverging from the main humeral trunk at an angle of sixty degrees 

 and in a fractured fashion reaching the oblique portion of the sutural 

 margin; ulnar vein arcuate toward the humeral trunk, which it 

 closely approaches, distad connected with the proximal ramus of the 

 median vein by a short cross- vein, the ulnar vein with two oblique 

 arcuate rami, which follow the general trend of the extremity of the 

 main ulnar vein, a number of oblique cross-veins between the humeral 

 trunk and the ulnar vein are also present, these having the same 

 trend toward the base as they approach the humeral trunk, a pecu- 

 liarity possessed by all the more prominent rami and cross-veins. 

 Wings with the exposed portion very acute, projecting distad of the 

 tegmina a distance subequal to the length of the pronotal disk. 



Mesosternal lobes elongate, acute-angulate caudad, the angle very 

 narrowly rounded, the external margin of the lobes gently arcuate, 

 the lobes held in a nearly vertical position: metasternal lobes indiv- 

 idually longitudinal, shorter proportionately than the mesosternal 

 lobes, the caudal angle moderately acute, the angle narrowly rounded, 

 the caudal and lateral margins moderately arcuate. Disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment moderately arcuate about the base of each 

 cercus, the distal margin of the plate dorsad of the supra-anal plate 

 weakly and broadly emarginate, the surface of the plate moderately 

 concave mesad: supra-anal plate trigonal, slightly longer than the 

 proximal width: cerci styliform, regularly tapering from the rela- 

 tively incrassate base to the very slender distal portion, straight: 

 ovipositor with its greatest length equal to four-fifths of the length 

 of the pronotal disk, bent arcuate in proximal third, thence very 

 gently arcuate, the greatest depth of the ovipositor equal to about 

 two-fifths of the ovipositor length, the ovipositor very faintly narrow- 

 ing in the distal half, the extremity obliquely arcuato-truncate, the 

 obliquity towards the dorsal margin, the margin of the apex with 

 deeply cut denticulations, which are larger mesad, other margins 

 of the ovipositor unarmed: subgenital plate small, compressed 

 trigonal, paired carinae converging distad. 



Cephalic femora four-fifths as long as the disk of the pronotum, 

 subcompressed, ventro-cephaUc margin with five spines, genicular 

 lobes bispinose: cephalic tibiae with the auditory foramina having 

 rimate apertures on both faces. Median femora one and one-third 

 times as long as the pronotal disk: median tibiae weakly expanded 

 in the proximal half on the ventral surface, there subcompressed. 

 Caudal femora in length equal to two-fifths of the length of the 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



tegmina. compressed, rather regularly tapering distad, the external 

 face with a well-impressed but irregular pattern of the pagina; 

 genicular lobes bispinose; ventral-external margin with a continu- 

 ous series of twenty-one to twenty-two spines, the ventro-internal 

 margin with a series of nine to ten spines restricted to the distal 

 section of the margin, the spines of both margins of similar size 

 and equally spaced, except that distad on the external margin they 

 are more crowded than elsewhere; ventral surface moderately chan- 

 nelled: caudal tibiae in actual length slightly surpassing that of 

 the caudal femora, faintly compressed proximad, the dorsal sur- 

 face moderately deplanate, dorsal margins regularly spined, the 

 ventral margins with a much sparser spination. 



General coloration of the head and pronotum light yellowish-olive 

 to ecru-olive, on the abdomen saccardo's-umber, on the venter of 

 the same bister; tegmina and exposed portion of wings courge-green 

 to light elm-green, blotched with chamois and cream-buff, probably 

 through dessication of the original green color; limbs saccardo's- 

 umber to ecru-olive. Eyes mottled prout's-browai and fuscous; 

 antennae amber-brown, greenish proximad. Pronotum with the 

 lateral angles of the disk rather obscurely hned with ochraceous- 

 buff, the short sulci (paired) which intersect the lateral angles of the 

 disk at the cephalic third are lined with black. Humeral trunk of 

 the tegmina and the principal veins of the same lined with buffy, 

 the veins other than those of the trunk with this passing into cedar- 

 green; discoidal field and the adjacent portion of the marginal field 

 with numerous, scattered, very small points of creamy-white. Ovi- 

 positor ochraceous-tawny, more or less distinctly edged with russet. 



Length of body, 29.3 mm.; length of pronotum, 7.6; greatest (cau- 

 dal) width of pronotal disk, 6.1; length of tegmen, 50; greatest 

 width of tegmen, 21.4; length of caudal femur, 20; length of ovi- 

 positor, 6.1. 



The type of this most interesting species is unique. 



Ischyra punctinervis Brimner. 



1878. I[schyra] punctinervis Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 344, pi. 

 VII, fig. 99a-b. [Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.j 

 This specimen is faintly smaller than the original measurements 

 and shows no sanguineous punctations at the base of the tegmina, 

 although the ivory areas and the rows of fuscous points bordering 

 the veins are well marked. It fully agrees otherwise with the 

 description. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



PSEUDOPHYLLINAE. 



Meroncidius flavolimbatus Brunner. 



1895. Meroncidius flavolimbatus Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophyll., p. 

 150. [Paraguay; State of Espirito Santo, Brazil.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January 11, 1883. (A. Koebele; 

 on Agave sp.). One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen fully agrees with the original description of the 

 species, which can be distinguished from marcjinatus Walker by its 

 smaller size, its relatively straighter cephalic femora, its slightly 

 more compressed pronotum, which has the marginal color contrast 

 moderately decided, and its less produced lateral angles of the meso- 

 and metasternum. The present species has the same type of mottled 

 light and dark coloration of the sutural margin of the tegmina found 

 in marginatus, but as the general color is darker the pale areas are 

 reduced in size and less conspicuous. At first glance flavolimbatus 

 might be taken for a small specimen of marginatus, but the struc- 

 tural differences appear to be sufficiently marked to distinguish the 

 two. 



Meroncidius marginatus Walker. 



]870. Meroncidius marginatus Walker, Catal. Spec. Derm. Salt. Brit. 

 Mus., Ill, p. 450. [Para, Brazil.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January 11, 1883. (A. Koebele; 

 on Agave sp.) One male, two females. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens agree with Walker's description of the species, 

 which is close to ochraceus of Stoll. The older species, however, 

 as understood by Brunner, has unicolorous antennae, the ovipositor 

 without distal rugae, very much greater general size and a distinctly 

 longer, although no deeper, ovipositor. 



Anchiptolis chapadensis Brvmer. 



1915. Anchiptolis chapadensis Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 355. 

 [Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. June and September. (H. H. 

 Smith.) Two males, three females. [U. S. N. IVl.] 



These specimens fully agree with the original description, which 

 was based on a single female. Several features of the male sex are 

 worthy of comment. The stridulating field of the male tegmina 

 occupies about one-fourth of the sutural section of the tegmina. 

 The two disto -dorsal abdominal segments are shining black, as in 

 the female sex. Supra-anal plate rather short, trigonal in form, 

 with the distal angle produced into an acute process; cerci short, 

 incrassate, faintly inliowed, the apex recurved with a straight tooth, 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



the ventro-lateral section of the shaft with a shallow longitudinal 

 impression; subgenital plate distinctly narrowed distad, the distal 

 extremity very narrowly and quite deeply U-emarginate; styles 

 rather short, cylindrical, ventral surface subsulcate. 



The measurements (in millimeters) of the present material are as 

 follows: 



Greatest Greatest Length Length 



Length Length width Length width of of 



of of of of of caudal ovipos- 



body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen femur itor 



c^ 23" 7.9 5.1 29.2 6.3 19.5 



cf 32.7 8.8 5.4 34.5 7.5 22.2 



9 33.5 8.7 5.5 38 8.7 20.6 16.9 



9 31 8.1 5.4 37.5 8 22 17.6 



9... 28 8.1 5.3 36.5 8.5 22.7 17.2 



Tanusia angulata-ooellata Bruuner 



1895. Tanusia angulaio-ocellata Brunner, Monogr. der PseudophylL, p. 

 251. [Brazil.] 



Canta Gallo, State of Rio de Janeiro. (Dr. Teuscher; Thayer 

 Expedition.) One female. [M. C. Z.] 



This specimen is typical except that the proximal three-fifths of 

 the tegmina is green, instead of ferruginous as described. We know 

 there is dichromatism in some of the Pterochrozae (i. e. Mimetica) 

 and this is apparently a case of the same sort. We have not used 

 Serville's picturata for this species, an action taken by Kirby, as we 

 do not feel convinced the older name w^as applied to the same species 

 as Brunner 's angulato-ocellaia . 



This is the first record of the species with exact locality. 



COPIPHORINAE. 

 Copiphora producta (Bolivar). 



1903. Copiophora producta Bolivar, Revista Chilena Hist. Nat., VII, p. 

 143. [Paraguay.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 

 This specimen shows a few differences from the description, which 

 was based on the female sex, but these are chiefly in measurements 

 and are probably due to sexual difference in proportions. The de- 

 velopment of the caudal section of the pronotum is exactly as de- 

 .scribed by Bolivar. 



The species has been recorded from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and 

 ''Province del Sara", Bolivia, by Bruner. 



This measurement is unnaturally small, as the abdomen is shrunken. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct.,. 



Oxyprora flavicornis Redtenbacher. 



1891. Oxyprora flavicornis Redtenbacher, Verhandl. k.-k. Zool.-botan. 

 Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. 360. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



Goyaz, State of Goyaz. One female. [Hebard Cln.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. July and October. (H. H. 

 Smith.) Three males, one female. [U. S. N. M.] 



One male is decidedly brownish, apparently indicating the pres- 

 ence of a brown phase in the species. 



Previous records were of its occurrence at Chapada, by Bruner,** 

 and Urucum, near Corumba, Matto Grosso, by Giglio-Tos." 



Caulopsis lancifera new species. (Plate XI, flgs. 34, 35, 36, 37 and 38.) 



Closely related to C. cuspidata Scudder, from Cuba, but differing 

 in the more compressed form, more elongate fastigium, which is also 

 deeper and faintly decurved distad, in the more retreating face, in 

 the much reduced stridulating field of the male tegmina, which has- 

 the tambourine hardly half the size of that found in cuspidata, in 

 the narrower and more acuminate tegmina, the more deeply divided 

 disto-dorsal abdominal segment of the male, the armament of the 

 male cerci and the more deeply emarginate subgenital plate. 



Type. — cf ; Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil. March. (H. H. 

 Smith; lowland.) [United States National Museum.] 



Size rather small: form very elongate: surface of head, pronotam,. 

 pleura and sterna cribroso-punctulate. Head with the greatest dor- 

 sal length (from apex of fastigium) nearly twice as great as the length 

 of the pronotal disk: dorsal line of occiput and fastigium in greater 

 part faintly and regularly ascending cephalad: fastigium with its 

 dorsal length subequal to the length of the occiput and inter-ocular- 

 region of vertex, lanceolate, faintly narrowed proximad, subequal 

 in width of remainder of proximo! half, then narrowing distad to 

 the strongly blunted apex; ventral line of fastigium, when seen from 

 the side, faintly concave; ventral surface non-carinate, but deeply 

 punctate, proximal tooth prominent, completely in contact with the 

 fastigium of the face; facial Une, when seen from the side, greatly 

 retreating, straight: eyes hardly prominent, ovate-orbicular in basal 

 outline: antennae at least two and one -half times as long as body. . 



Pronotum of the usual type for the genus, the greatest caudal width 

 of the pronotal disk contained nearly twice in the greatest length of 

 the same: cephalic margin of disk weakly arcuato-emarginate, cauda 

 margin of disk arcuato-truncate, lateral angles of disk distinct but 

 well rounded, except caudad, when they are sUghtly more decided 

 shoulders; transverse sulcus placed slightly cephalad of the cephalic 



« Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 389, (191.5). 



« Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XV, no. 377, p. 7, (1900). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



third, a fine medio-longitiidinal sulcus impressed for some distance 

 caudad of the transverse sulcus: lateral lobes of the pronotum dis- 

 tinctly longitudinal; cephalic margin of lobes strongly oblique, 

 arcuato-truncate; ventro-cephalic angle hardly indicated; ventral 

 margin oblique truncate; ventro-caudal angle rounded obtuse, 

 caudal margin strongly arcuate; humeral sinus deep, well rounded 

 rectangulate. Tegmina elongate lanceolate, the greatest width 

 contained slightly more than nine times in the length, surpassing 

 the apex of the abdomen by more than twice the dorsal length of 

 the head: costal margin straight except for a regular arcuation in 

 the distal third to the suturad apex, which is rather well rounded: 

 stridulating field small, in its entirety not quite two-thirds as long 

 as the dorsum of the pronotum, free margin but moderately arcuate, 

 stridulating vein not more pronounced than the other veins of the 

 field. Wings equalling the tegmina. 



Prosternal spines very elongate, aciculate, parallel; sternal lobes 

 strongly compressed, those of mesosternum rounded rectangulate, 

 of metasternum arcuate laterad, with an extremely faint obtuse- 

 angulation caudad. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment with a broad, 

 relatively shallow, obtuse-angulate depressed area on the distal 

 half of the dorsal surface, this area deepest disto-mesad and its 

 proximal outline is rectangulate, the distal margin obtuse-angulate 

 emarginate, the supra-cereal angles moderately acute, cereal emar- 

 ginations relatively deep, broad, truncate at the bottom: sub- 

 genital plate reflexed, linguiform: cerci of medium length, moder- 

 ately robust, covered with shagreenous points which give rise to 

 short chaetiform and long piliform hairs; when seen from the dor- 

 sum the cerci are nearly straight, when seen from the side they are 

 moderately regularly arcuate, subequal in depth; apex obliquely 

 subtruncate, supplied with two spines, one large and cultriform, 

 directed dorsad, the other aciculate, directed toward the median 

 line and placed distad of the cultriform spine; subgenital plate 

 compressed, relatively short, distal margin narrowly fissato-emar- 

 ginate; styles articulate, short. 



Cephalic and median limbs relatively short, comparatively slender: 

 caudal femora elongate, slender, one-half as long as the tegmina; 

 ventro-external margin Avith two to five spines, ventro-internal 

 margin with two to three spines. Genicular lobes unarmed except 

 those of the caudal femora and the caudal one on the median femora. 



Allotype. — 9; Iga, River, State of Amazonas, Brazil. (Thayer 

 Expedition.) [Museum of Comparative Zoology.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



This specimen differs from the description of the type in the fol- 

 lowing features. Size larger, form faintly more robust. Head with 

 the greatest dorsal length one and a half times as long as the pro- 

 notal disk; dorsal line of occiput and fastigium faintly and regularly 

 ascending; facial line slightly less retreating than in the male; an- 

 tennae broken. Cephalic margin of disk of pronotum very faintly 

 more angulato-emarginate than in the male; greatest caudal width 

 of pronotal disk three-fifths of length of same. Disto-dorsal ab- 

 dominal segment deeply and narrowly V-emarginate mesad: cerci 

 terete, tapering in distal third, acute, faintly arcuate when seen 

 from the side; ovipositor in length subequal to that of the dorsum 

 of the head and pronotum together, relatively broad, subeciual in 

 width, faintly decurved in distal two-thirds, apex acute: subgenital 

 plate produced trigonal, compressed, subcarinate ventrad, distal 

 margin narrow, shallowly arcuate-emarginate. Caudal femora 

 slightly less than one-half as long as the tegmina: ventro-external 

 margin armed with three to four, ventro-internal margin with two 

 to three spines. 



General color serpentine-green to old-gold above, beneath old 

 gold to dull yellow-ocher. Eyes russet; antennae dresden-brown to 

 buckthorn -brown, passing into the general color proximad. Larger 

 areas of the male stridulating field washed to a variable degree with 

 mummy brown. Tibial spines yellowish, tipped with brownish. 

 The female (allotype) has lost all trace of the original coloration, the 

 above features being derived entirely from the type and paratype. 



Measurements {in millimeters.) 



Cireatest Greatest Length Length 



Length Length Length caudal Length width of of 



of of fas- of pro- width of of of caudal oviposi- 



body tigiuni notum pro- tegmen tegmen femur tor 



notum 



12.9 



In addition to the type and allotype we have before us a paratypic 

 male bearing the same data as the type. It is a smaller insect than 



^° Apices damaged. Measurement approximate. 

 *^ Exclusive of ovipositor. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



the type, with the fastigium relatively shorter, but it is clearly the 

 same species as the described individual. The number of spines on 

 the ventro-external margin of the caudal femora is two to five in the 

 paratype. 



Neoconocephalus irroratus (Burmeister) . 



1838. C[oiiocephalus] irroralus Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. 

 II, pt. 1, p. 70.5. [Brazil.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. February, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 Three females. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens have lost all of their original coloration, from 

 liquid immersion, but they are inseparable from well preserved 

 specimens from other localities. 



Neoconocephalus vicinus Karny. 



1907. Neoconocephalus vicinus Karnv. Abb. k.-k. Zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien, 

 IV, heft. 3, pp. 26, 34. [Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil): Paraguay.] 



Chapada, State of Matto Grosso. IVTay and June. (H. H. 

 Smith). Four females. [U. S. N. M.] 



These individuals have been compared with specimens from 

 Sapucay, Paraguay. Two of the series are in the brownish phase 

 of coloration, with the costal margin of the tegmina finely lined with 

 fuscous, while the others are in the greenish phase, with the tegmina 

 not lined. The degree of completeness of the blackish marking on 

 the venter of the fastigium varies appreciably. 



We have every reason to believe that Bruner's Neoconocephalus 

 longifossor, described from Chapada, ^^, is identical with this species. 



Bucrates^^ capitatus (DeGeer). 



1773. Locusla capiiata DeGeer, Mem. Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 455, pi. 40, fig. 1. 

 [UnknowTi locality.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. February 15, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 ■One immature female. [U. S. N. M.] 



62 Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 395, (1915). 



^^ Scudder's Conocephalus clausus (Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XX, p 94, 

 (1878)), from Jalisco (in error, Jalasco), Mexico, we find, on examination of the 

 unique tj^pe, to be a Biicrates. It differs from capitatus in the more compressed 

 form, more elevated fastigium, shorter lateral lobes of the pronotum, the greatly 



^elongate tegmina, while the ovipositor is shorter, decurved in distal half and 

 there quite broad, distinctly broader than proximad. A number of other fea- 

 tures of difference in clausus, such as more prominent eyes, less deeply emargin- 



•ate subgenital plate, more deeply impressed transverse sulcus of the pronotum, 

 different areolation of the marginal field of the tegmina, etc., are also present. 



"The species has the caudal tibiae strongly expanded laterad. I\o close affinity to 

 Parabucrates is noticed, while it has no affinitj' with Homorocoryphus, or the 



.-species H. laticeps, as suggested by Karny (Gen. Insect. Orth., Copiphorinae 



•■(fasc. 139), p. 38 j. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



We have compared this individual with an adult female from La 

 Piedrita, Venezuela (II, 16, 1911; Stewardson Brown), in the collec- 

 tion of the Academy, and as far as can be determined from the im- 

 mature specimen, which is in the instar preceding maturity, the two 

 represent the same species. Redtenbacher has recorded the species 

 from Bahia. 



LISTROSCELINAE. 



Listrocelis atrata Redtenbacher. 



1891. Listrocelis atrata Redtenbacher, Verhandl. k.-k. Zool.-bot. Gesell. 

 Wien, XLI, pp. 544, 545. [Nova Friburgo (Neu Freiburg), State of Rio 

 de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Espirito Santo, Brazil. One male. [Hebard Cln.] 



This specimen is somewhat larger than the measurements given 



by Redtenbacher, but it does not appear to differ in other features. 



From the closely related L. carinata Karny, the present specimen 



differs, as does the description of atrata, in the longer and strongly 



arcuate process of the left mandible and the straight cerci. 



The localities given above are all known for the species. 



CONOCEPHALIXAE. 



Conocephalus iriodes Relin and Hebard. 



1915. Conocephalus iriodes Rehn and Hebard, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, 

 XLI, pp. 231, 258, pi. XXI, fig. 6, pi. XXII, figs. 5 and 2.3, pi. XXIII, 

 figs. 12 and 13, pi. XXIV, fig. 5. [Cuidad Bolivar and Maripa, Vene- 

 zuela; Kaiteur (type and allotype) and Rockstone, British Guiana; Ireng 

 River near Roraima, British Guiana; Bonito, Pernambuco, Brazil.) 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco, January 7 and 15, 1883. (A. Koe- 

 bele.) One male. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen, like the female from the same locality previously 

 recorded by us, has been immersed in alcohol or a similar preserva- 

 tive, so that to-day its distinctive coloration is almost entirely lack- 

 ing. The caudal limbs and the cephalic and median ones on the 

 left side are missing, but all the important structural features of the 

 species are evident. The tegmina are longer than in any of the 

 other males measured by us, being but shghtly shorter (18.3 mm.) 

 than those of the female from the same locality previously measured. ^* 



Conocephalus saltator (Saussure). 



1859. X[iphidium] saltator Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., 2e ser. XI, p. 

 208. [Guiana.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco, January 27, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 One male. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen is of the brachypterous type. 



^* Vide .supra. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



GRYLLIDAE. 



GRYLLOTALPINAE. ' 

 Scapteriscus vicinus Scudder. 



1869. Scapteriscus vicinus Scudder, Mem. Peabody Acad. Sci., I, pp. 7 

 and 12, pi. 1, figs. 4 and 23. [Rio Negro; Piauhy and Para, Brazil; 

 Panama; Rio Grande (Brazil?); Asia?] 



State of Sao Paulo. (Hanimar.) One male. [Cornell Univ.] 



GRYLLIXAE. 

 Nemobius hebardi Rehn. 



191.5. Nemobius (Argizala) hebardi Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1915, p. 290, figs. 4 and .5. [Buenos Aires (type locality) and Misiones, 

 Argentina.) 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. February 27, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen fully agrees with the typical material, and, like 

 the original individuals, has caudate wings. 



This record carries the range of the species greatly to the north- 

 ward. 



OECANTHINAE. 



Oecanthus minutus Saussiue. 



1S78. Oe[canthus] minutus Saussure, Melang. Orthopt., II, fasc. VI, p. 

 594. [Pernambuco, Brazil.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January 16, 1883. (A. Koebele; 

 collected on cotton.) One male, one female. [U. S. N. M.] 



These specimens show no differences worthy of mention from the 

 original description. The disparity in size of the two faces of the 

 foramina of the cephaUc tibiae is quite evident, while in the measure- 

 ments the female, which is the sex of the type, shows no noteworthy 

 difference except that the tegmina are about one millimeter longer. 

 The male tegmina is narrow, the greatest width of dorsal field con- 

 tained two and one-half times in the greatest length of the same. 

 Both of the present specimens are minus two to three legs and the 

 coloration has been much affected in the male. 



TRIGONIDIINAE 

 Cyrtoxipha pernambucensis new species. (Plate XI, fig. 39; text fig. 1.) 



This species is a relative of C. gundlachi (the genotype) , from which 

 it differs chiefly in the more deplanate head and more elongate 

 eyes, which in basal outline are more pyriform than reniform; the 

 head when seen from the cephalic aspect is much more strongly 

 transverse and shallower in proportion to its depth than in gund- 

 lachi. The pronotum of the male is shghtly less decidedly trans- 

 verse, with a more marked cephalic narrowing than in gundlachi, 

 while the tegmina of the male have the dorsal field shghtly narrow^er 




284 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct. 



in pernanibucensis than in gundlachi, with the specuhim and the 

 principal veins more longitudinal. Most of the limbs are missing 

 in the unique type of pernambucensis. It is probable that the 

 Pernambuco material referred to gundlachi by Saussure" belongs to 

 this species. 



Type. — cf ; Bonito, State of Pernambuco, Brazil. January, 1883. 

 (A. Koebele.) [United States National Museum.] 



Size medium (for the genus), form slender but apprecia,bly de- 

 pressed; surface of body and limbs rather thickly clothed with short 

 hairs. Head of the transverse depressed type characteristic of the 

 genus; occiput and fastigium strongly and uniformly deplanate 

 declivent when seen from the side, the fastigio-facial angle rectangu- 

 late; interspace between the eyes broad, faintly ex- 

 ceeding the greatest length of the eye, inter-antennal 

 width of the frontal costa less than one-third of 

 the interocular width, dorsum of the fastigium and 

 cephalic section of occiput with a delicate medio- 

 longitudinal sulcus: facial line, when seen from 

 the side, slightly arcuate : palpi rather short, fourth 

 joint slightly shorter than the third joint, fifth joint 

 faintly shorter than the fourth, the fifth joint form- 

 ing a nearly equilateral triangle, the distal margin 

 truncate and but faintly shorter than the length 

 of the joint: eyes distinctly longitudinal pyriform, 

 the greatest depth, which is cephalad, contained 

 about one and a half times in the eye length: an- 

 tennae with the proximal joint broad, strongly de- 

 pressed. 



Pronotum transverse, the greatest caudal width 

 one and two-thirds times the greatest length, the 

 cephalic width about two-thirds the caudal width, 

 when seen from the dorsum the pronotum is ap- 

 preciably narrowed cephalad: cephalic margin of 

 disk faintly arcuate, caudal margin of disk bisinuato- 



truncate; disk of the pronotum with a medio-longi- .^^ , ,- 



^ , • , , • p • • r , 1 , . ■ Dorsal outline of 



tudmal sulcnorm nnpression tor the greater portion male (type). 



of its length, lateral angles of disk well rounded: (X 8-^ 



lateral lobes of pronotum subrectangulate, distinctly longer than 



deep: cephalic margin, moderately oblique, truncate, ventro-cephalic 



Fig. l.—Cyr\to- 

 xipha pernambu- 

 censis new species. 



" Mel. Orth., II, fasc. VI, p. 620, (1878). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



angle well roiUKled, ventral margin suljtruncate, ventro-caudal angle 

 narrowly rounded, caudal margin straight; surface of lobes with an 

 oblique, poorly delimited, broad depression, its general trend ventro- 

 caudad. 



Tegmina moderately narrow, their greatest width contained about 

 two and one-half times in the greatest tegminal length; dorsal vena- 

 tion and areas strongly longitudinal in disposition (see figure 1); 

 lateral venation with the mediastine vein moderately bi-sinuate, 

 three short, free veins present, the second abbreviate. Wings 

 surpassing the tegmina by about one and a half times the combined 

 length of the head and pronotum. Cerei failing to reach the apices 

 of the closed wings by about one-third the length of the exposed 

 portion of the latter. Cephalic tibiae faintly fusiform: both faces. 

 with an elliptical foramen. Caudal limbs missing. 



General coloration dull colonial-buff, apparently quite greenish 

 in life. Eyes tawny, becoming russet ventro-cephalad. 



Length of body, 6 mm.; length of pronotum, 1; greatest caudal 

 width of pronotum 1.7; length of tegmen 5.3; greatest width of 

 dorsal field of tegmen, 1.9. 



The type is unique. 



Anaxipha^'^ aptera (Chopard). 



1912. C[yr(oxipha] aptera Chopard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXI, 

 p. 410, 4 figs. [Charvein, St. Laurent and Nouveau-Chanticr, B'rench 

 Guiana.] 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 One male. [U. S. N. M.] 



Anaxipha olmeca (Saussure). 



1897. Cyrtoxiphvs ohncc^is Saussure, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 236, 

 pi. XT, figs. 42 and 43. (Teapa, Tabasco, Mexico.) 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. January, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 Two females. [U. S. N. M.] 



The reference of this material to olmecus is provisional, as we have 

 no Mexican individuals for comparison, and the Bonito representa- 

 tion is not in as good condition as could be desired. It shows, how- 

 ever, no differences worthy of mention from the original description 

 and figures, and for the present must be referred here. This is the 

 first South American record of the species. 



EXEOPTERINAE. 



Podoscirtus americanus Saussure. 



1878. P[odoscirtiis] americanus Saussure, Melang. Orthopt., II, fasc. VI, 

 pp. 776, 782. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



*8 For comments on the characters separating Cyrtoxipha and Anaxipha, see 

 Rehn and Hebard, Entom. News, XXIII, pp. 411 and 412; Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Phila., 1916, i)p. 300 to 302. 




286 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Bonito, State of Pernambuco. February, 1883. (A. Koebele.) 

 One female. [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen fully agrees with the description of the present 

 species. The only really noteworthy difference is that the caudal 

 tibiae have five spines on the external and six on the internal dorsal 

 margins, instead of 5:5 or 4:3 as described. 



This is, apparently, the first record of this magnificent species 

 since the original description. 



Aphonomorphus inopinatus new species. (Plate XI, flgs. 40, 41 and 42; text figure 2.) 



Apparently related to A. mulus (Saussure), from Guiana, from 

 which it differs chiefly in the caudal margin of the pronotum being 

 hardly angulate caudad, in the lateral lobes of the pronotum being 

 more longitudinal than quadrate, in the more numerous (six) spines 

 on the dorso-internal margin of the caudal tibiae, in the fewer (two) 

 spines on the dorso-external margin of the caudal metatarsi and in 

 the distal palpal joint not being black. 



Type. — 9 ; Bonito, State of Pernambuco, Brazil. January, 1883. 

 (A. Koebele.) [United States National Museum.] 



Size medium:'* form moderately elongate, slightly 

 depressed: surface of body and limbs rather sparsely 

 pilose, of tegmina microscopically adpressed pilose. 

 Head with its caudal width but faintly greater than 

 the cephahc width of the pronotum, when seen from 

 the cephahc aspect the greatest depth is slightly greater 

 than the width across eyes: occiput weakly declivent 

 cephalad : ocelli of medium size, placed in an arcuate fine; 

 median one transverse elliptical, weakly fossetted 

 cephalad, the interspaces between the median and 

 lateral ocelli slightly greater than the short dimension 

 of the median one; lateral ocelli sublongitudinal in 

 position, ovate, lai-ger than the median one, separated 

 from the eyes by a distance subequal to that between 

 the median and lateral ocelli: inter-antennal rostrum 

 I'ounded obtuse-angulate when seen in lateral outline, 

 mina of female its least width subequal to that of the proximal-antennal 

 \yy )■ \ ■) joint, dorsal section weakly fossetted : eyes but moder- 

 ately prominent, slightly directed cephalad, subreniform and narrow 

 ventro-cephalad in basal outline: palpi with the third joint relatively 

 heavy; fourth joint subequal in length to the third, slender proximad; 

 iifth joint elongate securiform, its length greater than the breadth of 



Fig. 2.—Apho- 

 nomorphus in- 

 opinatus new 

 species. Dorsal 

 outline of tes- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



the distal margin, which latter is truncate, the flexor margin straight, 

 rouncUng into the distal margin, the extensor margin moderately 

 but distinctly concave: antennae incomplete. 



Pronotum transverse, the greatest median length contained nearly 

 one and a half times in the greatest caudal width of the pronotum; 

 in transverse section the dorsum of the pronotum is rather strongly 

 arcuate, well rounding into the lateral lobes: cephalic margin of 

 dorsum emarginato-truncate ; caudal margin bisinuate laterad, ro- 

 tundato-angulate mesad; lateral borders of the disk weakly diverg- 

 ing caudad, all pronotal margins excepting the usual lamellato- 

 cingulate portion ventro-caudad on the lateral lobes, narrowly 

 cingulate: medio-longitudinal line weakly impressed; pyriform im- 

 pressions transverse, elongate: lateral lobes longitudinal, their 

 depth contained nearly twice in their length, moderately impressed 

 ventro-caudad; ventro-cephalic angle and ventral margin arcuate, 

 ventro-caudal angle rounded obtuse. 



Tegmina very slightly surpassing the tips of the caudal femora, 

 relatively narrow, the lateral borders of the dorsal field subparallel 

 proximad, faintly arcuate convergent distad: lateral field rather 

 narrow, subequal in width in the proximal third, very gradually 

 narrowing thence to the distal fourth, from which point distad it 

 more sharply narrows; mediastine vein with four to five rami and 

 the field with five free veins proximad; dorsal field with its greatest 

 width contained about five times in the greatest tegminal length; 

 ulnar vein strongly sinuate at about its middle; anal vein with a 

 faint sinuation slightlj^ proximad of its middle; axillary veins (two) 

 simple; median vein with four oblique rami distad, which are not 

 strongly marked, yet form with the ulnar and anal veins the usually 

 distinct pattern of oblique "sectors" found in most of the species 

 of the genus; longitudinal sinuate intercalated nervures and short 

 cross-veins evident. Closed wings extending distad of the teg- 

 mina a distance equal to about one and one-third times the length 

 of the pronotum. 



Limbs moderately robust, the cephalic and median femora quite 

 deep, moderately compressed. Cephalic tibiae with a small elliptical 

 foramen on the cephalic face, the caudal face imperforate. Caudal 

 femoi-a one and two-fifths times as long as the tegmina, regularly nar- 

 rowing distad: caudal tibiae subequal to the femora in length; dorso- 

 external margin armed with five major spines, the dorso-internal 

 with six, the dorso-external margin with 3-2-2-1 intercalated spinu- 

 lations, the internal with 2-2-1-2-0; external distal spurs very 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



small, dorso-internal spur twice as long as the ventro-internal one: 

 caudal metatarsi with two spinulations on the external, and a single 

 one on the internal, margins; internal distal metatarsal spur sub- 

 equal to the metatarsus in length. Ovipositor slightly longer than 

 the caudal femora, the structure of the apices very similar to that 

 of the recently described A. surdus Rehn," the marginal teeth, how- 

 ever, slightly smaller, more regular and more acute. 



General coloration ochraceous-buff; a pronounced grouping of 

 spots along the cephalic, and a less decided row of the same along 

 the caudal, margins of the dorsum of the pronotum, fuscous; a 

 poorly defined speckling on the limbs and over much of the pronotum, 

 cinnamon-brown; eyes cinnamon-brown; tegmina pencilled in weak 

 tawny, the proximal third of the humeral vein lined ventrad with 

 fuscous; ovipositor tipped with fuscous. 



Length of body, 13.6 mm.; length of pronotum, 2.8; greatest (cau- 

 dal) width of pronotum, 3.9; length of tegmen, 15.5; greatest width of 

 dorsum of tegmen, 3; length of caudal femur, 11; length of ovipositor, 

 11.8. 



In addition to the type we have before us a paratype female with 

 the same data as the type, except that it was taken in February, 

 1883. This specimen is slightly larger than the type and has been 

 badly damaged, lacking all the limbs excepting the dextral median, 

 one and the dextral caudal femur, while the tegmina are not perfect. 

 It is in a more intensive type of coloration than the type, 

 having the punctulation much heavier, far more numerous and fus- 

 cous; washes on the fastigium, in the median area of the pronotum, 

 irregular beading along the median vein of the tegmina and a spot 

 at the base of the humeral trunk, cloucUngs on the tegminal "sec- 

 tors" and beading along the ventral margins of the caudal femora, 

 fuscous. 



Nessa vectis new species. (Plate XI, fig. 43; text figure 3.) 



This species is referred to Nessa provisionally, as it may prove to 

 be generically distinct from the poorly known genus of Walker. 

 From the description of the genus Nessa, and the genotypic N. 

 linearis, the new species differs in the pronotum being slightly broader 

 than long, in the ovipositor faintly surpassing the length of body 

 and very much longer than the abdomen, in the caudal tibiae having 

 six external and seven internal spines on the dorsal margins, in the 



" Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1918, p. 230, pJ. II, figs. 71, 72, 73 and 74,. 

 (1918). 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



289 



caudal femora being without distinct black markings and the teg- 

 mina with the veins unlined with piceous, and in the smaller size. 

 Some affinity is shown to Parametrypa and some similarity to Cylin- 

 drogryllus and Tapinopiis is noted, but from the former the new 

 species differs chiefly in the femoral spination, as well 

 as the elongate and fully developed tegmina, while 

 the shorter pronotum, elongate tegmina, tibial and 

 metatarsal spination, and the abbreviate distal caudal 

 tibial spurs are the more readily perceived features of 

 difference from Cylmdrogryllus. From Tapvnopiis the 

 new form differs in the shorter head, shorter and 

 simpler pronotum, the imperforate cephalic tibiae, the 

 short cephalic tarsi and the slender ovipositor, which 

 has the distal valves short and slender. 



Type. — 9 ; Bonito, State of Pernambuco, Brazil. 

 January 17, 1883. (A. Koebele.) [United States Na- 

 tional Museum.] 



Size medium: form quite elongate, slender, sub- 

 equal in width: surface of body and limbs with ad- 

 pressed pile, on the tegmina a similar, but more de- 

 cidedly microscopical, pile covering is present. Head 

 with, its caudal width slightly greater than the ceph- 

 alic width of the pronotum, depressed, dorsal sur- 

 face deplanate, greatest width across eyes but faintly 

 vectis new spe- less than the greatest length of the head, the great- 

 outline ofle- ^^^ depth of the head distinctly less than the greatest 

 male (type), width: occiput gently rounded, the interocular portion 

 KX 6/2). q£ ^j-^p dorsum plane, almost imperceptibly excavate; 



ocelli placed in a strongly arcuate line, small, the median one slightly 

 smaller than the lateral ones, the median ocellus fossetted cephalad, 

 all the ocelli well separated from each other and also from the 

 eyes: interantennal rostrum with the width subequal to that of the 

 proximal antennal joint, the lateral outline of the rostrum arcuate 

 obtuse-angulate when seen from the side: palpi moderately elongate; 

 fourth joint slightly shorter than the third joint; fifth joint elongate 

 securiform, its flexor length slightly greater than that of the obhque 

 subtruncate distal margin : eyes hardly prominent, elhptical in basal 

 outline, shghtly declivent cephalad in their general trend from the 

 horizontal: antennae broken. 



Pronotum with the greatest dorsal width about a fourth greater 

 than the median length, the disk weakly transverse, the lateral bor- 



Fig. 3. — Nessa 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



ders faintly bowed outward mesad, but the cephalic width is sub- 

 equal to that caudad; in transverse section the disk is arcuato- 

 deplanate: cephalic margin very faintly and broadly arcuato-emar- 

 ginate; caudal margin weakly bisinuate-laterad, very slightly and 

 broadly arcuato-angulate ; cephalic margin rather narrowly, caudal 

 margin more broadly, cingulate: surface with a narrow medio- 

 longitudinal line, which is delicately fiUform cephalad and caudad 

 more broadly and conspicuously indicated; pyriform impressions 

 distinct, rather large, moderately elongate, more approximated than 

 usual; lateral lobes strongly longitudinal, the greatest depth of the 

 lobes contained slightly more than twice in their length, the depth 

 in general subequal; ventro-cephalic angle rounded rectangulate, 

 ventral margin straight, horizontal for two-thirds of its length; 

 ventro-caudal angle obUquely rotundato-truncate, passing into the 

 caudal margin; surface of the lobes with the point of impression 

 ventro-caudad. 



Tegmina reaching to the apex of the abdomen, elongate, slender, 

 lateral borders of the dorsal field parallel: costal margin straight; 

 mediastine vein with six oblique rami, three of which are short 

 and distal and three elongate and proximal in origin; marginal field 

 with one free vein proximad; humeral and discoidal veins follow- 

 ing the curve of the mediastine vein, simple: dorsal field narrow, 

 its greatest width contained about five and a half times in the great- 

 est length of the same; median vein straight, with two poorly de- 

 fined rami distad; ulnar vein bifurcate; simple anal and two axil- 

 lary veins unbranched, regularly placed, nearly longitudinal; veins 

 of the dorsal field almost longitudinal, subparallel, the interspaces 

 with numerous, generally irregular, cross-veins, which are never as 

 distinct as the principal veins and rarely form regularly shaped 

 areolae. Wings, when closed, with their folded tips very briefly 

 surpassing the tegmina. Cerci faintly more than twice as long as 

 the pronotum, tapering, supphed with rather short hairs and elongate, 

 more erect, hairs: ovipositor slightly surpassing the body in length, 

 very slender, weakly compressed, in lateral outline weakly sinuate 

 proximad, moderately curved dorsad in distal three-fifths; surface 

 of the lateral aspects inicroscopically rugulose; distal valves little 

 inflated, strongly acuminate, ventral surface of valves with a series 

 of weakly recurved, serrate teeth, these decreasing in size distad. 



Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust, rather short ; cephalic 

 tibiae imperforate, cephahc and median tarsi short. Caudal femora 

 but faintly shorter than the tegmina, moderately robust, regularly 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



tapering distad: caudal tibiae but faintly shorter than the femora; 

 dorsal margins armed with six external major spines and seven 

 internal ones, the intercalated spinulations numbering 3-2-2-2-0 on 

 the external, and 3-2-1-1-1-0 on the internal margin; distal spurs 

 of the external side small, the internal side having the dorsal distal 

 spur slightly less than twice as long as the ventral pne: caudal meta- 

 tarsi very short, the dorsal surface with two external and one in- 

 ternal spinulations, distal spurs of both sides slightly surpassing the 

 second tarsal joint. 



General coloration pale buckthorn-brown, the head inclining to- 

 ward dresden-brown, the venter of the abdomen ochraceous-tawny. 

 Ocellar region outlined dorsad with fuscous, a V-shaped patch of the 

 same on the occiput; eyes auburn with a median and a dorsal thread 

 of fuscous. Pronotum with a fuscous medio-longitudinal line which 

 is almost completely divided by a thread of the general color, points 

 of fuscous regularly disposed along the cephalic and caudal margins 

 of the disk and along the lateral border of the same, a very faint 

 wash of russet suggesting a post-ocular bar. Tegmina with a moder- 

 ately broad bar embracing the humeral vein, fuscous, bordered 

 suturad by the pale ochraceous-buff pencilling of the median vein. 

 Abdomen with the dorsum shining blackish-fuscous. Caudal tibiae 

 dorsad weakly washed with mummy-brown. Ovipositor finely 

 lineate on the external surface with blackish-fuscous, the valves 

 chestnut with blackish-fuscous teeth. 



Length of body, 16.5 mm.; length of pronotum, 2.7; greatest (cau- 

 dal) width of pronotum disk, 3; length of tegmen 13.8; greatest 

 width of dorsal field of tegmen, 2.3; length of caudal femur, 12.3; 

 length of ovipositor, 18.5. 



The type of this very striking and peculiar species is unique. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May-Oct., 



Explanation of Plates X, XL 



Plate X. 



Fig. 1. — Trnchymiopteryx tuherculala new genus and species. Dorsum of 

 pronotum of male (type). (X 4) 



Fig. 2. — Trachymiopteryx tubcrculata new genus and species. Outline of 

 cephalic aspect of head of male (type). (X 4) 



Fig. 3. — Musonia costalis new species. Outline of dorsum of pronotum of 

 male (type). (X 6) 



Fig. 4:.—Musonia costalis new species. Outline of cephalic aspect of bead 

 of male (type). (X 4) 



Fig. 5. — Oxyopsis oculea new species. Outline of dorsum of pronotum of 

 female (type). (Natural size.) 



Fig. 6. — Oxyopsis oculea new species. Cephalic aspect of head of female 

 (type). (X 4) 



Fig. 7. — Oxyopsis oculen new species. Apex of tegmen and wing of female 

 (type). (Natural size.) 



Fig. 8. — Parastagmatoptera glauca new species. Dorsal outline of pronotum 

 of female (type). (X 3) 



Fig. 9. — Parastagmatoptera glauca new species. Cephalic aspect of head 

 of female (type). (X 3.) 



Fig. 10. — Dyine straminea new species. Dorsal outline of apex of abdomen 

 of male (type). (X 2) 



Fig. 11. — Dyrne straminea new species. Lateral outline of apex of abdomen 

 of male (type). (X 2) 



Fig. 12. — Bactridium grandc new species. Lateral outline of apex of ab- 

 domen of female (type). (Natural size.) 



Fig. 13. — Diponthus hilirieatus new species. Dorsal view of head and pro- 

 notum of male (type). (X 3) 



Fig. 14. — Diponthus crassus Bruner. Misiones, Argentina. Dorsal view 

 of head and pronotum of male. (X 3) 



Fig. 15. — Diponthus biliueatus new species. Lateral outline of apex of 

 abdomen of male (type). (X 3) 



Fig. 16. — Diponthus crassus Bruner. Misiones, Argentina. Lateral out- 

 line of apex of abdomen of male. (X 3) 



Fig. 17. — Ligocatinus so7xlidus new species. Cephalic aspect of dorsal por- 

 tion of head of female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 18. — Ligocatinus sordidus new species. Lateral view of ovipositor of 

 female (type). (X 6) 



Tig. 19. — Ligocatinus minutus new species. Lateral outline of pronotum 

 of male (type). (X 6) 



Tig. 20. — Ligocatinus minutus new species. Dorsal outline of apex of ab- 

 domen of male (type). (X 6) 



Fig. 21. — Anaulacomera hellator new species. Lateral outline of pronotum 

 of male (type). (X 6) 



F'ig. 22. — Anaulacomera hellator new species. Cercus of male (type). 

 (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 23. — Anaulacomera intermedia Brunner. Petropolis, Brazil. Cercus 

 of male. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 24. Anaulacomera lihidinosa new species. Lateral view of cercus of 

 male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 



Plate XL 



Fig. 25. — Anaulacomera lihidinosa new species. Lateral outline of right 



tegmen of male. (X 23^) 

 F'ig. 26. — Phylloptera tenella new species. Lateral outline of left tegmen 



of female (type). (X 23^) 

 Fig. 27. — Phylloptera tenella new species. Outline of eye in latero-cephalic 



aspect. Female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



293 



Fig- 28. — Phylloptera tcnella new species. 



female (type). (Greatl}' enlarged.) 

 Fig. 29. — Phylloptera cognala new species. 



of female (type). (X 2^2) 

 Fig. 30. — Phylloptera cognata new species. 



aspect. Female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 31. — Phylloptera cognata new species. 



female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 32 — Lobophyllus rei'ertms new species. 



female (type). (X IK) 

 Fig. 33. — Lobophyllus reversus new species. 



of female (type). (Natural size.) 

 Fig. 34. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. 



male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Pig. 35. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. 



male (typej. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 36. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. 



field of left tegmen of male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 37. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. Dorsal outline of apex of ab- 

 domen of male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 38. —Caulopsis lancifera new species. Lateral outline of apex of ab- 

 domen of male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 39. — Cyrtoxipha pernambucensis new species. 



of male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 40. — Aphononiorphus inopinatus new species. 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 41. — Aphonomorphus inopinatus new species. 



(Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 42.- — Aphonomorphus inopinatus new species. Cephalic face of cep- 

 ■ halic tibia of female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 JFig. 43. — Nessa vectis new species. Palpus of female (type). (Greatly 



enlarged.) 



Lateral view of ovipositor of 



Lateral outline of left tegmen 



Outline of eye in latero-cephalic 

 ;ed.) 

 Lateral view of ovipositor of 



Lateral outline of pronotum of 



Lateral outline of right tegmen 



Dorsal outline of fastigium of 



Lateral outline of fastigium of 



Dorsal outline of stridulating 



Lateral outline of head 

 Ocelli of female (type). 

 Palpus of female (type) . 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920, 



PLATE X. 



REEIN: BRAZILIAN ORTHOPTEEIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE XI. 



REHN : BRAZILIAN ORTHOPTERA. 





1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



293 



Lateral view of ovipositor of 



Lateral outline of left tegmen 



Fig. 28. — Phylloptera tenclla new species. 



female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 29. — Phylloptera cognata new species. 



of female (type). (X2J2) 

 Fig. 30. — Phylloptera cognata new species. Outline of eye in latero-cephalic 



aspect. Female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 3L — Phylloptera cognata new species. Lateral view of ovipositor of 



female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 32. — Lobophyllus reversus new species. 



female (type). (XlK) 

 Fig. 33. — Lobophyllus reversus new species. 



of female (type). (Natural size.) 

 Fig. 34. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. 



male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 3.5. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. 



male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 36. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. 



field of left tegmen of male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 37. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. Dorsal outline of apex of ab- 

 domen of male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 38. — Caulopsis lancifera new species. Lateral outline of apex of ab- 

 domen of male (tyte). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 39. — Cyrtoxipha pernambuccnsis new species. 



of male (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 40. — Aphonomorphus inopinatus new species. 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 41. — Aphonomorphus inopinatus new species. 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 42. — Aphonomorphus inopinatus new species. 

 ■ phalic tibia of female (type). (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 43. — Nessa veclis new species. Palpus of female (type). (Greatly 



enlarged.) 



Lateral outline of pronotum of 

 Lateral outline of right tegmen 

 Dorsal outline of fastigium of 

 Lateral outline of fastigium of 

 Dorsal outline of stridulating 



Lateral outline of head 

 Ocelli of female (type). 

 Palpus of female (type). 

 Cephalic face of ce- 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NuV. 



November 16, 1920. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., made a communication on "Hawaii 

 and the Pan-Pacific Scientific Conference," illustrated by lantern 

 slides. (No abstract.) 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following 

 papers for the Proceedings: 



''Scrophulariaceae of Colombia — -I," by Francis W. Pcnnell. 



"Two New Cyprinoid Fishes from Formosa," by Masamitsu 

 Oshima. 



"Mollusks from Lake Chapala, State of Jalisco, and Vicinity," 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



"New Land Shells," by E. G. Vanatta. 



"Mollusca from Central America and Mexico," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



"Notes on Arachnoidiscus," by Sarah P. Monks. 



"Records and Descriptions of Brazilian Orthoptera," by James 

 A, G. Rehn. 



"Iron Ore Artifacts from Alabama," by H. Newell Wardle. 



"Marine Mollusks of Hawaii, VHI-XIII," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



"Statistical Observations on the Texas Fever Parasite," by How- 

 ard Crawley. 



"American Dermaptera of the Museum d'Histoire Naturclle, 

 Paris," by Morgan Hebard. 



"A Colombian Pupillid Snail," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



"Ordovician Basalts and Quartz Diabases in Lebanon County, 

 Pennsylvania," by Samuel G. Gordon, 



"Marine Mollusks of Hawaii, XIV," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



"Studies on Some Flagellates," by E. Penard. 



Nominations for Officers, Councillors, and mcml3ers of the Com- 

 mittee on Accounts were made. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



The deaths of W. Lyman Bitklle and Benjamin Smith Lyman, 

 members, were announced. 



Edwin B. Bartram, John Cadwalader, 3rd, Francis L DuPont, 

 Richard Erskine, Samuel G. Gordon, JuUan K. Potter, D. W. 

 Steckbeck, Henry F. C. Stikeman, Rodney H. True, and William 

 Chatten Wetherill, were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII, Vni-XIII. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The description of material submitted to me for determination 

 by Mr. D. Thaanum, Prof. Wm. A. Bryan and Mr. J. M. Oster- 

 gaard, with other forms collected by myself in 1913, is here con- 

 tinued. Former papers of this series were published in these Pro- 

 ceedings for 1917, pp. 207-230, and 309-333 (1918). 



VIII. Stylifer, Odostomia, Acteocina 



One Hawaiian species, Stylifer rohusfus, was described by Mr. 

 Pease. The Hawaiian species referred to Scalenostoma apiculatuni 

 Souv. in a former paper' is perhaps a Stylifer or closely related 

 thereto. It is parasitic or commensal on Echinoderms. Whether it 

 is without an operculum, like the typical Stylifers, has not been noted. 



Stylifer deformis Pease, from the Paumotus, resembles both of the 

 Hawaiian forms from the Bryan collection, without exactly matching 

 them. A series of four S. de/ormis, including the figured type, is in the 

 collection of the Academy. They show considerable variation in 

 the degree and direction of curvature of the acuminate early whorls. 



Stylifer deformis hawaiensis n. subsp. Fig. la. 



Honolulu Harbor, Oahu, collected by W. A. and E. J. Bryan. 



The shell is thin, white. The upper fourth is acuminate, of 

 about eight nearly flat, smooth whorls. The rest of the shell, about 

 63^2 whorls, tapers more rapidly; the whorls increase slowly and 

 almost regularly, and are rather" strongly convex; and the surface 

 is malleate, having many spiral facets, giving some appearance of 

 having coarse, low, spiral threads on the last two whorls. The last 

 whorl is well rounded basally. The aperture is ovate. Columella 

 is slightly concave. 



Length 9.2, diameter 3.2 mm. 



iProc. A. N. S., Phila., 1917, p. 226. 




1920.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



291 



Only one specimen was ol)tained. Its host is unknown. The 

 shell tapers more regularly than any of the examples of aS. deformis 

 seen, and I am inclined to think it a distinct though closely allied 

 subspecies. 



Fig. 1. — a, SUflifer deformis hawniensis; h, c, S. deformis rcmotissimus. 

 Stylifer deformis remotlssimus n. subsp. Fig. l b, c. 



Pearl and Hermes Reef. Collected by Lieut. Munter. 



The shell is thin, white, polished, consisting of a very narrow, 

 slightly curved early stage of about 9 flat whorls, the shell then 

 abruptly enlarging in the next two whorls, after which it approaches 

 a cyUndric form, enlarging slowly to the last whorl, which is a little 

 more dilated. The 5}^ whorls of the second stage of growth are 

 convex, the last whorl rounded below. The columella and parietal 

 wall are heavily calloused. 



Length 9, diameter 3.5 mm. 



As the apex and last half whorl of the largest specimen are broken 

 away, the dimensions given are estimated. A half grown cotype 

 (fig. 1 h) is 4.6 mm. long. 



The subcylindric shape of this species is like one of the specimens 

 in Mr. Pease's sending of Stylifer deformis, bilt none of the latter has 

 a heavy parietal callus. This may, however, be a character of old 

 age. 



Stylifer mittrei Petit. Fig. 2 a, b. 



The shell is ovate with a very small, narrow apical point, white. 

 The attenuate initial portion consists of 4 somewhat convex whorls. 

 It then enlarges abruptly, the 5 to 6 whorls following being quite 

 convex, glossy, smooth, except for very faint lines of growth. The 

 moderately impressed suture is not margined. The aperture is 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



ovate, outer and basal margins obtuse. The columella is weakly 

 concave and somewhat thickened. The parietal callus is moder- 

 ately thick. There is no operculum. 



Length 10.6, diameter 6.75, apeiture 4.8 mm. 



Length 9.2 mm. Smallest adult. 



Hilo, Hawaii, on the sea urchin, Diadema. D. Thaanum. 



The apical point is more or less worn away in the adult stage. A 

 young one, 3 mm. long, is figured showing it perfect. Mr. Thaa- 

 num writes that he did not find this Stylijer on any other species of 

 sea urchin, though many others were examined. 



Fig. 2. — a, b, Slylifer mittrei Petit, adult and young; c, Siylifer thaanumi n. sp. 



This form agrees so exactly with that described without definite 

 locaUty by Petit (Journ. de Conchyl. II, p. 27, pi. 2, figs. 8, 9) that 

 the identity can scarcely be doubted. I am inchned to think that 

 it was a distinct species which Schepman and Nierstrasz^ had under 

 the name Mucronalia mittrei from Sumbawa. It was operculate, 

 6 mm. long, 4 wide. 



Mucronalia tumida Pse., mentioned by Tryon as identical with 

 8. mittr-ei, is certainly distinct from that species. 



Stylifer thaanumi n. sp. Fig. 2 c. 



The shell is shortly ovate with slender summit, white, glossy and 

 smooth, growth-striae being scarcely noticeable. About 5 early 

 whorls form the slender summit, but the transition to the broad 

 later portion of about 3 whorls is gradual. The last whorl is glo- 

 bose. Suture impressed, not margined. Aperture ovate. Outer 

 and basal lips evenly curved, blunt; columella shghtly concave, a 

 little thickened. Parietal callus distinct but rather thin. There is 

 no operculum. 



^ Siboga-Expeditie, Parasitisolie Prnsnbranohior dor Siboga-Expoclition, p. .3. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Length 5.2, diameter 3.4, aperture 2.5 mm. 

 Hilo, Hawaii, on Diadema. D. Thaanum. 

 Often found with the preceding species. 



Stylifer robustus Pease. 

 Proc. Zool. Soc. LoncL, 1860, p. 437. 



"Shell globosely ovate, light, polished; finely striated longitudi- 

 nally; whorls convex and marginated, last whorl swollen, sutures 

 well impressed, inner lip slightly reflected at its junction with the 

 columella and around the base, disappearing at about the center of 

 the outer lip. Color white. Lives on Echini." Sandwich Islands. 



This species is not contained in the Pease collection. Museum of 

 Comparative Zoology. The description does not apply well to any 

 specimens I have seen, and without measurements or figure it can 

 hardly be recognized. 



Odostomia (Chrysallida) hiloensis n. sp. Fig. 3. 



The shell ip ovate -conic, soUd, white, nuclear whorl smooth, con- 

 vex, with in turned apex; next whorl very indistinctly plicate axi- 

 ally. The whorls of the spire are nearly fiat. Suture channelled. 

 Last whorl is more convex, with sculpture of spiral furrows, unequally 



X50. 



Fig. 3. — 0. hiloensoS, with outline of apex. 



spaced, a deep one just l)elow the periphery, three less impressed 

 grooves above it, the middle one deepest; below it are 7 or 8 spirals 

 the lower three but little impressed. The aperture is ovate, colu- 

 mellar plait strong. 



Length 2.1, diameter 1.05, aperture 0.85 mm.; 5| whorls. 



Hilo, Hawaii. D. Thaanum. 



Near 0. stearnsiella, but this is smaller and differs in details of 

 sculpture. How constant the groove patterns are in these small 

 shells remains to be seen. 




300 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Acteocina hawaiensis n. sp. Fig. 4. 



The shell is minute, cylindric, white with several spiral series 

 of gray spots. The spire is moderately raised, of very convex whorls 

 parted by a deep suture. The initial whorl is prominent, tilted on 

 edge, smooth; following whorl very narrow. There are three post- 

 embryonic whorls. The last whorl is strictly cylindric, shouldered 

 below the suture, with rather coarse wrinkles of growth. The 

 columella is straightened above, excavated or obliquely truncate 

 below. Outer lip arches forward. 



Length 2.35, diameter 1 mm. 



Off Launiupoko Camp, near Lahaina, West Maui, in 25-75 feet. 

 Thaanum and Langford. Type 127746 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 4. — Acteocina hawaiensis. 



Smaller and more straightly cylindric than other known Hawaiian 

 Acteocinas, further distinguished by the rather strong sculpture 

 and the gray spots. Five series of these are seen in the type, seven 

 in another example. They are chiefly visible on the back. All of 

 the specimens sent are "dead" shells; one, somewhat defective, is 

 a little larger and relatively wider than those figured. 



IX. Terebra 



Pease's notes on Hawaiian species may be found in Amer. Journ. 

 Conch. IV, pp. 123-125, and V, 86. There are no examples of his 

 Terebra assimilis Pse. (= T. contigua Pse., 1871) in the Pease col- 

 lection, Museum of Comparative Zoology. 



T . swainsoni Dh. has been discussed by Pease, who described a 

 var. inflexa, to which he referred Reeve's figure 118, of swainsoni. 

 I believe the figure was drawn from the latter species, of which Pease's 

 inflexa becomes a synonym. It is rather common off the south 

 coast of Oahu. It differs from T. nitida and plicatella, which are 

 very closely allied, by having fine spiral striae in the interstitial in- 

 tervals. The inner lip forms a raised ledge as in T. ntfida. The 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



color ascribed to T. swainsom by Deshayes and Reeve is that of 

 faded beach shells. Twenty specimens examined, in coll. A. N. S. 

 P. and M. C. Z. 



Terebra sulcata Pease (Amer. Journ. Conch. V, p. 67, from Oahu) 

 appears to be merely a small form of swainsoni, with stronger spiral 

 sculptm'e, approaching that of T. rosacea somewhat. The speci- 

 mens seen are No. 49967 M. C. Z., agreeing exactly with 117036 

 P. A. N. S., from 6-8 fathoms, off Honolulu. D. B. Langford. 



Pease stated that he had 32 species of Terebra from the Hawaiian 

 Islands. The following species are before me, in addition to several 

 not determined, 



T. chlorata Lam. Midway Island. 



T. crenulata fimbriaia Lam. Kahuku, Oahu. 



T. gouldii Desh. Off Honolulu. 



T. inconstans Hinds. Off Diamond Head, etc., Oahu; Molokai; 

 Kauai, 



T. inconstans confusa Smith. Off Halawa, Molokai, 



T. lauta Pse. Off Honolulu ; Mokapu Point, Oahu. 



T. mtida Hinds. ^ Off Honolulu. 



T.. nodularis Desh.' Honolulu Harbor^ Kaneohe Bay. 



T. pertusa Born. Off Honolulu. 



T. ■pro'pinqua Pse. Off Honolulu and Waikiki. 



T. rosacea Pse. Off Honolulu. 



T. suffusa Pse. Off Honolulu. 



T. swainsoni Desh. Off Honolulu. 



T. venosa Hinds. Off Honolulu; Kauai; Maui. 



T. verreauxi Desh. {T. strigilata of Born and Lamarck, not of 

 Linne). Off Honolulu; Haena, Kauai, 



Partial Key to Hawaiian Terebra. 



1. No groove defining a presutural band; smooth ribbed, without 



spiral sculpture 2 



A presutural band defined by a groove or series of pits, at least 

 in the upper half of the shell 5 



2. Aperture dilated below; no canal, the emarginate base broad. 



T. inconstans Hinds. 

 Aperture not dilated below, the base narrow, somewhat chan- 

 nelled 3 



3. A series of dark spots on or below a whitish band at the suture. 



T. verreauxi Desh. 



^The specimens appear to be intermediate between nilida Hinds and plicatella 

 Desh., possibly referable to the latter. 



^This is quite distinct from T. tcxtilis Hinds, with which Tryon unites it. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Spaced brown axial lines on a pale ground ; ribs extending from 

 suture to suture as far down as the penult whorl; 38 x 6.4 mm. 



T. lanceata oahuensis n. subsp. 



White bands at suture and below periphery, a broad band of 

 brown streaks or blotches above periphery, a narrow one at 

 the base, apex purplish ; ribs very fine, retracted at suture 4 



4. 20 X 5 mm.; Honolulu T. medipacifica n. sp. 



28 X 7 mm.; Kaneohe Bay T. m. melior, n. subsp. 



5. Presutural band defined by a series of transverse pits or punc- 



tures 6 



Presutural band defined by a groove, at least on the upper half 



of the shell 10 



0. Ribs and intervals smooth 7 



Intercostal intervals below the presutural band transversely 



grooved 21 



7. Inner lip callous and raised; ribs strong 9 



Inner lip not raised 8 



8. Ribs straight, strong and subangular; brownish (fading to pink- 



ish), paler below the suture T. clappi n. sp. 



Ribs low; whitish, or with a dull purplish band. Marked with 

 flexuous axial brown lines T. venosa Hinds. 



9. A series of dark spots below the suture T. lauta Pse. 



Color nearly uniform T. nitida Hinds. 



10. Whorls flat; no sculpture except the groove 11 



Whorls having other sculpture 12 



11. 60 to 75 mm. long; maculate T. chlorata Lam. 



30 to 35 mm. long; pale fleshy T. sujfusa Pse. 



12. Without spiral sculpture below the presutural groove 13 



Having spiral sculpture below presutural groove 17 



13. Presutural band nodular, the later whorls elsewhere nearly 



smooth; large; with a few series of dark dots T. crenulata (L.). 



Presutural band with numerous ribs 14 



14. Last whorl nearly smooth below the band, with 4 rows of faint 



spots on a whitish ground; earlier whorls ribbed; whorls 

 shorter, less oblique than in T. argus. 40 x 8 mm., 12 whorls. 



T. argus hrachygyra n. subsp. 

 All whorls ribbed 15 



15. Inner lip not callous; length 60 to over 70 mm 16 



Inner lip callous throughout; whitish with fleshy intercostal in- 

 tervals and three faint gray spiral lines on last whorl; peris- 

 tome retracted above a point at termination of sulcus. Simi- 

 lar to T. cerithina Lam., but costate throughout. 29.5 x 6.9 

 mm., 12 whorls : T. spaldingi n. sp. 



16. Diameter contained about 4f times in length; maculate. 



T. gouldii Desh. 

 Diameter about 4| times in length; no distinct pattern of color; 

 last whorl much more convex and more contracted below 

 than T. gouldii; 60x13.5, aperture 14 mm., 12 whorls re- 

 maining T. thaanumi n. sp. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



17. Presutural band and surface below it axially ribbed 18 



Band and surface below it striate, not axially ribbed; band 



very convex, narrow, a cord and several smaller spirals below 

 it; ochraceous-buff ; long, slowly tapering; 41 x 7.9, aperture 

 7.2 mm.; 23 whorls T. langfordi n. sp. 



18. A tubercular cord below the presutural band, causing it to 



appear double 19 



No cord below the presutural band; surface with spiral grooves 

 in the intercostal intervals 19 



19. Pale buff; about 27 x 5 mm T. nodularis Desh. 



White with three series of tawny dots on last whorl below the 



band; columella biplicate; a recurved basal channel; 30x6.7 

 mm., 17 whorls T. waikikiensis n. sp. 



20. Tawny, with whitish streaks on band 21 



White, with 3 series of tawny dots on the last whorl, presutural 



band white; below the band there are 3 or 4 spiral cords sep- 

 arated by deep impressions across the intercostal intervals, 

 the upper cord widest; columella distinctly biplicate; a re- 

 curved basal channel; 30x6.7 mm., 17 whorls. 



T. waikikiensis n. sp. 



21. Small, slender forms with raised inner lip and rather fine spiral 



striae in the intervals of the strong ribs T. swainsoni Dh. 



Inner lip not raised; intervals spirally grooved 22 



22. Tawny, irregularly marked with whitish streaks; presutural 



band marked with purplish-brown between the white ribs; 

 50-60 mm. long T. pertusa Born. 



Tawny, ribs white on the presutural band; 30-35 mm. long. 



T. propinqua Pse. 



Smaller; pale, with 3 ochraceous-buff bands; presutural ribs 

 white, some of the intervals brownish ; intercostal spirals finer, 

 10 on penult whorl, aperture somewhat channelled and yellow 

 below. 25x5.5, aperture 5.3 mm.; 15 whorls. Maui and 

 Oahu T . flavofasciata n. sp. 



Small, length about 20 mm.; roseate and whitish, without dis- 

 tinct pattern T. rosacea Pse. 



Terebra langfordi n. sp. PI. XII, fig. 5. 



A long, slowly tapering species similar to T. straminea in appear- 

 ance; light ochraceous buff in color. The whorls are short, pre- 

 sutural fasciole a strong cord, its upper slope somewhat grooved; 

 below it a much smaller cord followed by four (rarely three) unequal 

 spirals, traversed by unequal arcuate incremental striae. Base of 

 the last whorl with numerous smaller spirals. The aperture is 

 small, with strongly obhque anterior canal. Columella short, smooth. 



Length 41, diameter 7.8, aperture 7.2 mm.; 23 whorls. 



Length 50, diameter 9, aperture 8.2 mm., 21 whorls, apex broken 



Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fms. D. B. Langford. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



In T. stramtnea the prcsiitural band and the cord following it are 

 obliquely costulate, the presutural band flattened. Otherwise it is 

 much like the present species. T. funiculata Hinds is more closely 

 related. It is decidedly more slender than T. langfordi, with more 

 spiral threads, one at the periphery more prominent. 



A form of which I found a single specimen on the dredger dump 

 at Honolulu is much more slender. The groove di\iding the sutural 

 band is deeper, and there are but three spiral cords below the one 

 accompanying the band. In the small number of spirals it differs 

 from T. jumcidata. This form may be called T. langjordi angustior 

 (PL XII, fig. 6.) 



Length 29, diameter 5, aperture 4.5 mm.; 20 whorls remaining. 



I at first thought this form was T. sculptus Pease, but that is 

 described as having a conspicuous nodose rib. 



The spiral sculpture is much more pronounced than in T. laevi- 

 gata Gray. 



Terebra argus brachygyra n. siibsp. PI. XII, fig. 4. 



The shell is smaller than T. argus with shorter^ less oblique whorls; 

 the sculpture of low ribs cut by an irregularly punctured spiral sul- 

 cus is stronger, and visible down to the penult or even on the last 

 whorl. The pattern of three series of squarish pale buff spots on an 

 almost white ground is very indistinct. 



Length 40, diameter 8 mm., 12 whorls remaining, the apex 

 broken. 



Length 39, diameter 8.7 mm.. 12 whorls remaining. 



Off Honolulu, 3 to 8 fms. D. Thaanum. 



Terebra peasei Desh. 



This species of the section Stnoterehrum has been considered a 

 synonym of T. pundiculata by Ilee\e. Pease (Amer. Journ. Conch. 

 V, p. 64) concurs in this synonymy. The locality of T. puncticu- 

 lata was unknown. The description agrees well with the Hawaiian 

 species except for the phrase "pHcis regularibiis, depressis. latis, 

 ohtusis" and the statement that the whorls are " subaequaliter 

 divisis" by the presutural line. 



In the Hawaiian shell the folds could not be called wide, and the 

 division of the whorls is well above the middle, 



Reeve's figure of T. puncticulata evidently represents the type of 

 T. peasei, agreeing \vith that, and not with puncticulata^ in measure- 

 ments. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Under the circumstancos it appear? safer to call the Hawaiian 

 form (which has been taken by Langford off Honolulu in G to 8 

 fathoms) T. peasei Desh. Two lots from Pease are in the collection 

 of the Academ3^ 



Teiehra flavescens Desh. (P. Z. S. 1859, p. 299, Reeve, C. Icon. 

 Xn, pi. 14, fig. 59) does not appear to differ much from T. peasei 

 Desh., except that the axial ribs are arcuate. I have not seen it. 

 Locality, Sandwich Islands, Cuming coll. 



Terebra thaanumi n. sp. PI. XII. figs, l, 2. 



A shell resembling T. gouldii Desh.; the whorls shorter than in 

 that species, especially the last whorl, which is much more convex; 

 aperture shorter. It is pinkish buff wath ill-defined streaks of cinna- 

 mon or russet. The sides are straight. The suture and the furrow 

 defining the presutural fasciole are subequal, deeply impressed, the 

 surface narrowly shouldered, subangular below both. The presutural 

 band occupies somewhat more than one-third of each whorl. Sculji- 

 ture of smooth ribs equal to their intervals, about 30 on the penult 

 whorl. No interstitial spiral sculpture. The last whorl contracts 

 abruptly below, the base well rounded, separated from the siphonal 

 fasciole by a furrow bounded below by a sharp ridge. The aperture 

 is subtrapezoidal. Columella straight, obliquely truncate. 



Length 60, diameter 13.5, aperture 14 mm.; 12 whorls, the apex 

 broken. Type. 



Length 51, diameter 10.7, aperture 12.3 mm.; 18 whorls, apex 

 perfect. 



Off Honolulu in 6 to 8 fms. D. B. Langford. Also off Waikiki 

 in 25 to 50 fms. 



By conchological criteria this would probably belong to Dupli- 

 caria; yet until the teeth of many more species of Terebra are ex- 

 amined, no classification of the species has much value. 



Terebra waikikiensis n. sp. PI. XII, flg. 12. 



The shell is slender, slowly tapering, white, with three spiral scries 

 of chestnut dots on the last, two on the preceding whorls; these dots 

 are also in vertical series, of which there are about 8 on the last whorl. 

 Sculptm'e of rounded axial ribs equal to their intervals, about 21 

 on the last whorl. The ribs are deeply sinuated by the presutural 

 groove, which is rather deep between them, and defines a wide 

 presutural band. Below the groove there are three or four furrows 

 across each intercostal interval, and above, near the suture there 

 is one such furrow. The last whorl is convex with numerous spiral 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



cords. Aperture small, the anterior canal recurved. The colu- 

 mella is biplicate within. 



Length 30, diameter, 6.7, aperture 6 mm.; 17 whorls. 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, in 25 to 50 fms. D. B. Langford. 



In form and color somewhat like T. decorata Desh. (Proc. Zool. 

 Soc. 1859, p. 314, no. 214), which is said by Reeve to be identical 

 with T. tessellaia Gray (P. Z. S. 1834, p. 61) ; but that species is en- 

 tirely distinct in sculpture. 



Terebra flavofasciata n. sp. PI. Xll, fig. 3. 



Shell shaped like T. prophiqua Pse.; white, part of the intercostal 

 spaces of the presutural band marked with vinaceous russet; 3 

 ochraceous-buff bands, one below the sutural band, another narrow, 

 at the periphery, and the third occupying the base. Sculpture of 

 smooth, rounded axial ribs, slightly wider than their intervals, 19 

 on the last whorl of the type, 25 mm. long, (16 in a shell 17 mm. 

 long). The intercostal intervals have many spiral cords wider 

 than their interstices, 10 on the penult whorl, below a series of 

 deeper transverse pits defining the presutural band. Upon the 

 band the interstitial spirals are finer. On the base the ribs become 

 obsolete and there are coarser spiral cords. Aperture rhombic, 

 somewhat channelled and yellow at the base. 



Length 25, diameter 5.5, aperture 5.3 mm.; 15 whorls. 



Off Launiupoko camp. West Maui; sma'l specimens, 17-18 mm. 

 long, off Honolulu, 6 to 8 fms. D. Thaanum and D. B. Langford. 



Smaller than T. propinqua and T. pertura, with more numerous 

 spirals and different coloration. Possibly to be compared with T. 

 sulcata Pease (Amer. Journ. Conch., V, 67), the type of which is lost. 



Terebra clappi n. sp. • 



The shell is slender, shaped about as in T. nitida, glossy, dark 

 vinaceous brown, the ribs and an ill-defined belt below the suture 

 paler or whitish. Whorls nearly flat, with well-impressed suture, 

 the last whorl contracting downward. Sculpture of straight, angu- 

 lar ribs, rather suddenly terminating at the base, the intervals hav- 

 ing a spiral series of impressions defining an infrasutural band; 

 these impressions sometimes nicking the summits of the ribs sHghtly. 

 In the type there are 15 ribs on the last whorl. The aperture is a 

 little dilated below. Columella one-folded. 



Length 17.5, diameter 3.8, aperture 4.2 mm. 11 post-embryonic 

 whorls. 



Length, 21, diameter 4.5 mm., 13 post-embryonic whorls. Hono- 

 lulu, Pease Coll., M. C. Z., 49964. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Off Mt. Lihau, West Maui, 25-75 feet., D. Tliaanum. Also off 

 Honolulu, 35-50 feet., D. B. Langford. 



This species differs from T. nihda by the absence of a raised 

 ■inner lip, though it is often somewhat calloused. It is much like 

 T. swainsoni, as I have identified that species, but lacks the inter- 

 stitial sculpture and the raised inner lip of that species. Seventeen 

 specimens in coll. A. N. S. P. and M, C. Z. 



It appears to be what Pease identified as T. swainsoni Desh., but 

 that is described as having the early whorls transversely striate. 



It is named for Mr. Wm. F. Clapp, who has kindly assisted in the 

 examination of Pease's species. 



Terebra lanceata oahuensis n. siibsp. PI. XII, fig. 7. 



The shell is rather smaller than lanceata and for at least half of 

 its length the ribs extend entirely across the whorls ; on the later 

 whorls they shorten, but are visible below the suture on the last. 

 The pattern of brown lines, interrupted or bent at the periphery, 

 is similar to that of lanceata. 



Length 38, diameter 6.4 mm. 



Off Honolulu, 6 to 8 fathoms. D. B. Langford. 



Dr. Dall (Bull. M. C. Z., 43, p. 249), has formed a subgenus Acu- 

 mima for Terebra lanceata (Linne); but that species is conchologi- 

 cally close to T. strigilata of Born and Lamarck, and would seem to 

 belong to Hastula. 



Terebra verreauxi Desh. 



Journ. de Concliyl., II, 1857, p. 95, pi. 5, fig. 3. 



Exactly what species was intended by B'uccinmn stricjikdum 

 Linne (Syst. Nat. X, p. 741; Hanley, Ipsa Linn. Conch, p. 261) is 

 not known. As Hanley remarked, the identification of Born has 

 been generally accepted.* He states that the shell in Linne's cab- 

 inet is T. concinna Desh. 



For the Hawaiian form we prefer to use the name given by Des- 

 hayes, whose description and figure represent this form. It is one 

 of the most beautiful of the genus. The color is from deep olive 

 to ecru-olive or more ochraceous, with white bands at sutm-c and 

 below periphery, the former decorated with regular black-brown 

 spots. It has been taken off Honolulu, 6-8 fms (D. B. Langford), 

 and at Haena, Kauai (Bryan). 



*Also by MelviU and Standen in their revision of Persian Gulf Terebridae, 

 Journ. of Conch., XV, 212. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Terebra medipacifica n. sp. PI. XII, flgs. 8, 9, 10. 



Shell rather slender with slightly convex lateral outlines; a white 

 band below the suture, followed by a broad band of brown streaks 

 and blotches on a white ground, extending to the periphery. A 

 second white band below the periphery and a narrow band of brown 

 markings just above the narrow, rather shallow furrow between 

 base and siphonal fasciole; apical whorls purplish. Sculpture of 

 fine, forwardly curved axial ribs, about 35 on the last whorl. Both 

 ribs and intervals are smooth, there being no spiral sculpture. There 

 are about 43^ smooth embryonic whorls, the last bulging, wider than 

 the following sculptured whorl: 83^2 sculptured whorls. Suture 

 is regularly crenulated by the ends of the ribs. The aperture is 

 narrow, channelled above by the retraction of the lip near its inser- 

 tion. Anteriorly it is broadly notched. Columella smooth. There 

 is no raised inner lip, though the parietal ca'lus is rather thick. 



Length 18.8, diameter 4.4, aperture 5.4 mm. 



Length 20, diameter 5, aperture 6 mm. 



Off Honolulu, 6 to 8 fathoms. D. B. Langford. 



It is much more finely ribbed than T. inconsfans, with a differently 

 shaped aperture. T. bipartita Desh. (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 

 1859, p. 284), from the Isles Sandwich, requires comparison, but 

 the description does not agree fully, and the species has not been 

 figured. 



It is one of the species which Reeve and Tryon would have placed 

 under T. hastata. 



Terebra medipacifica melior n. subsp. PI. XII, fig. 11. 



A much larger form of this species was taken in Kaneohe Bay, 

 Oahu. The brown markings are much reduced, but not more than 

 in some Honolulu shells. There are 38 ribs on the last whorl. 



Length 28, diameter 7, length aperture 8 mm., 10 post -embry- 

 onic whorls. 



Terebra spaldingi n. sp. PI. XII, flg. 13. 



Shell narrow, poHshed; whitish, the intercostal intervals fiesh 

 colored; three faint gray spiral lines on the last whorl, the upper 

 one visible on the spire. 



Sculpture of smooth, rounded axial ribs, about 22 on the last or 

 penult whorls, a little prominent just below the suture, interrupted 

 by a well impressed presutural groove; intervals smooth. Last 

 whorl with a spiral ridge bounding a narrow basal furrow, which 

 extends also above the narrowly reflected basal margin. The aper- 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



ture is rather wide below, posteriorly channelled, the outer lip re- 

 tracted a little above. Inner Up calloused, a little elevated. No 

 columellar fold. 



Length 29.5, diameter 6.9, aperture 7.5 mm. Twelve whorls. 



Off Honolulu, 6 to 8 fathoms. D. B. Langford. 



A form from Kaneohe Bay in 4 fathoms is much larger, length 

 37.3, diameter 9 mm. 



This species is closely related to T. cerithma Lam., but differs in 

 having all of the whorls ribbed. The Honolulu specimens are 

 stained with iron. T. affinis Gray differs by the interstitial sculp- 

 ture. 



Terebra dussumieri hiradoensis n. subsp. 



The shell is similar to T. dussumieri in form, but differs by the 

 smaller number of longitudinal ribs, which are wider and more 

 widely spaced, about 17 on the penult whorl. 



Length 55, diameter 11 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen, Japan. Type 81994, A. N. S. P. 



X. MiTRA AND VeXILLUM 



W. H. Pease described several forms about which little is known. 

 His notes on various Hawaiian species were published in the Ameri- 

 can Journal of Conchology, III, pp. 212-215, 233, 271; IV, pp. 119- 

 121; V, 85. 



Mitra mitra (L.) {VoJuta mitra episcopalis L.) has been taken in 

 the material dredged from Honolulu Harbor, l)ut no specimens are 

 at hand for comparison mth those of other localities. 



Partial Key to Hawaiian Species of Mitra and Vexillum. 



I. Mitra. Shell smooth, finely striate, or with spiral punctured 

 lines; throat not lirate. 



1. Shell with spiral series of spots on a light ground 2 



Shell uniform or otherwise marked 3 



2. Six spiral series of orange spots; large, the last whorl smooth. 



M. mitra (L.). 



Three irregular series of brown (tawny) spots; finely striate 



spirally throughout ; outer lip thin near the upper insertion, 



elsewhere rather thick and smooth, a low swelling behind 



it. 6 plaits; base recurved. Aperture longer than in M. 



ustulata Rve.; 50x15, aperture 26 mm. 



M. kamehameha n. sp. 



3. Suture crenulated by a series of white tubercles 4 



Suture even or nearly so q 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



4. Weakly, irregularly plicate, with coarse punctures in spiral 



and axial series 5 



Not plicate; fine punctures in spiral series, often obsolete at 

 periphery; a ragged or blotched white band near the suture 



and usually other white spots, on a dark ground. 



M. coronata aurora Dohrn. 



5. Chocolate, with a white band bordering the suture 



M. luguhis Sw. 

 A narrow whitish band a short distance below the suture, 



white sutural tubercles. Honolulu 



M. lugubris honoluluensis n. subsp. 



6. Spire and upper part of last whorl finely axially costulate, 



with spiral punctured lines 7 



Spire spirally striate, not distinctly costulate .9 



7. Aperture f or more of the total length; spire short; yellow 



(or white) with dark apex and basal spot 8 



Aperture less than f of the length, spire moderately long; 

 white with a dark brown median belt M. newcombi Pse. 



8. Last whorl sculptured only at the upper part. 



M. olivaeformis Sw. 

 Last whorl having spaced, closely punctate spiral lines through- 

 out, otherwise similar to the preceding. 



M. olivellaeformis n. sp. 



9. Fusiform, the aperture half the length or less 10 



Pupiform, with shorter spire and longer aperture 14 



10. Small species, less than 18 mm. long 12 



Larger or large species, about 20-50 mm. long 13 



12. White, smooth, with two wide orange zones; about 14 mm. 



long M. micans Rve. 



White; minutely striate spirally, 7-8 mm. long. 



M. alba Pse. 



13. Uniform cinnamon-brown; outlines rather straight above and 



below the convex periphery, sculpture of punctate spiral 

 lines, ,8 on penult whorl, weaker in the peripheral region; 

 outer lip contracting above, with crenulate edge, but with- 

 out any internal tubercle or callus; 6 plaits. 51 x 19, aper- 

 ture 24.4 mm., 8 whorls M. thaanumiana n. sp. 



Similar to the preceding, but the last whorl is somewhat flat- 

 tened peripherally; there are 6 punctured lines on penult 

 whorl; irregular crenulations below the suture; 5 plaits. 



43 X 15, aperture 22.3 mm. Orange (faded) ; Honolulu 



M. ostergaardi n. sp. 



Olivaceous or dusky, with widely spaced dark spiral lines; 



outer lip thickened or with a tubercle within 



M. astricta Rve. 



14. Speckled with buff on a dark ground M. Htterata Lam. 



Chocolate, with a pale shoulder band M. auriculoides Rve. 



Uniform dark brown 15 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



15. A callous projection within the outer lip in adult .shells, none 

 in the throat; peripheral region convex; 5 well developed 



plaits M. hrunnea Pse. 



No lip callus; a nodule in the throat; carob brown to chestnut 

 brown, the aperture chocolate; last whorl somewhat cylin- 

 dric, smooth with spirals at the base; 4 plaits. 25 x 10.4, 

 aperture 14 mm. M. ticaonica vagans n. subsp. 



II. Shell conspicuously spirally lirate, axial sculpture subordinate or 



wanting; outer lip blunt or thin, crenulate, throat smooth. 



1. Diameter nearly half the length; with smooth spiral' cords, 



very little interstitial sculpture 2 



Shell more slender, with distinct interstitial sculpture 4 



2. Shell irregularly plicate axially; very pale with a thin brown 



epidermis M. turgida Rve. 



Shell not plicate : 3 



3. Orange, often with white peripheral maculation. 



ilf . tabanula Lam. 



Thin, fulvous M. suhrostrata Sowb. 



Brown with some white maculation M. proscissa Rve. 



White, variegated with smoky brown M. pudica Pse. 



4. Interliral spaces with an intermediate thread and close axial 



sculpture leaving narrow pits M. interlirata Rve. 



Having close low riblets, making the cords tubercular; 11 

 cords on last whorl; yellowish with 2 indistinct brown 

 bands, tubercles white; 3 columellar plaits. 11.6x4,5, ap- 

 erture 6.3 mm. M. waikikiensis n. sp. 



Having spaced axial impressed lines throughout; apex pink; 

 4 or 5 plaits. 



5. Spirals narrow, brown on a white ground; smaller than M. 



granaUna Lam., the brown lines continuous; 35.3x11.4, 



aperture 18 mm.; 8 post-embryonic whorls; Honolulu 



M. langfordi n. sp. 

 Spirals blunt, alternately larger and smaller; buff with a 

 broad chestnut peripheral band, its upper half interrupted 

 into a series of large spots; 29.3x9.3, aperture 16.4 mm.; 

 7^ post-embryonic whorls; near crenifera Lam., but smaller 

 with many more impressed axial lines M. emersoni n. sp. 



III. Vexillum. Axial ribs predominating over spiral sculpture 



when the latter is present. (In baldwini the later whorls 

 are smooth.) 



1. Shell obesely fusiform, with narrow aperture; outer lip con- 



spicuously receding or excised below, lirate within, a plait 



at its upper third; 5 or 6 plaits (Section Tdiochila, new) 2 



Outer lip normal, not receding below 3 



2. Last 3 or 4 whorls very smooth and glossy, marbled or streaked ; 



early whorls costulate V. baldwini Melv.6 



^V. baldwini has been collected at Honolulu by Ostergaard and Bryan. It 

 may prove to be identical with V. flanunulata Pse., of which I have not seen 

 specimens. V. baldwini and V. turbeM form a peculiar section to be called 

 Idiochila, the type being V. turben Reeve. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Later whorls with many fine ribs, intervals spirally grooved; 

 clear yellow. 22.7 x 12 mm V. turhen kanaka n. siibsp. 



3. Rather short species with about 15 or fewer axial folds on 



the last whorl 4 



Having more numerous axial folds or ribs 7 



4. Stout shells with strongly coronate whorls and coarse spi- 



rals 5 



Whorls axially plicate, not coronate, with very fine, close 

 spiral striation 6 



5. Spiral cords strong; no lirae in the throat V. tuherosa (Rve.). 



Spiral cords less strong; throat lirate 



V. pairiarchialis (Gmel.). 



6. 12x7 mm. to 18x8 mm. V. dermestina (Lam.). 



About 9x3.7 mm.; white with brown lineolation. 



V. 7iodulosa (Pse.). 



7. Small axial ribs in some of the intervals of the larger 



V. hella (Pse.). 

 Axial ribs about equal 8 



8. A finely striate depression in the ribs a short distance below 



the suture; small, chocolate-colored, with the upper surface 



maculate with white V. tusa (Rve.). 



Without such depression or coloration 9 



9. Spiral cords running over the axial ribs 10 



Spiral sculpture appearing as transverse grooves in the inter- 

 vals only 13 



10. Whitish, with pale markings; stippled lirae in the throat 11 

 Marked with tawny or brown; stout in form; continuous 



threads in the throat 12 



11. Subtubercular and angular close below the suture; a faint 



fleshy band with sparse brown dots on the ribs. 



V. wisemani (Dhn.). 



Third spiral below suture slightly prominent; base pale vina- 



ceous V. compta (Ad.) 



12. Axial ribs rather coarse, continuous; many fulvous spiral 



bands; 18-20 mm. long V. aureolata (Sw.). 



Axial ribs very fine, cut by spiral grooves; tawny or brown 



with a white band and base; about 9 mm. long 



V. picea (Pse.). 



13. Minute species, less than 10 mm. long; dark-colored 14 



Larger shells, over 15 mm. long 15 



14. Chocolate, sometimes with a white band; about 8x3 mm. 



V. mica (Rve.). 

 Fusiform, vinaceous-tawny, with burnt umber bands at per- 

 iphery and base; about 30 rounded axial ribs on last whorl, 

 intervals with wide, low, spiral cords separated by im- 

 pressed lines, 4 on penult whorl; 4 plaits; 6.5x2.7, aper- 

 ture 3 mm.; 5| post-embryonic whorls V. micra n. sp. 



15. Fusiform, white with a cinnamon band l)elow periphery; at 



periphery are narrow brownish spots between the ribs, 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



surmounted by a cinnamon line; 11 rounded ribs on the 

 last whorl, intervals with transverse impressions, 10 or 11 

 in intervals on penult whorl; 5 plaits, 25.3x8, aperture 



12 nun.; 10 whorls V. thaanumi n. sp. 



Fusiform, white with a chestnut band below the periphery 

 and few blackish-brown spots below the suture, apex dark 

 brown, 22 smooth axial ribs on last whorl with short, trans- 

 verse impressions in the intervals, 6 in each interval on 

 penult whorl; 2 spiral cords more prominent at base; 5 thin 



plaits. 18 X 7.5, aperture 8.4 mm.; 10 whorls 



V. xenium n. sp. 



Mitra kamehameha n. ?p. PI. XII, fig. 23. 



The shell is slender, fusiform, finely striate spirally. White, with 

 three series of ochaceous orange spots, subsutural, peripheral and 

 basal, the former with few spots. On the spire these spots are more 

 or less concrescent into longitudinal stripes. 



The last whorl has a broad swelUng behind the outer lip. The 

 aperture is more than half the total length, narrow. Outer lip is 

 rather thick, excavated within and becoming quite thin near the 

 upper insertion. There are six plaits, the lower ones small. 



Length 50, diameter 15, aperture 26 mm. Type. 



Length 40, diameter 12.7, aperture 22 mm. 



Honolulu Harbor, in the dredger dump. J. M. Ostergaard. 



This species is related to M. ustuJata Rve., but it differs by having 

 the aperture ^onger, more than half the total length, while in usiu- 

 lata it is less than half. The color is doubtless darker in living 

 specimens. 



Mitra thaanumiana n. sp. PI. XII, fig. 21. 



The shell is solid, fusiform. Outlines of spire and basal part 

 straight, periphery convex; cinnamon-brown, where the thin 

 cuticle is lacking, sayal brown, the apical whorls paler. Sculpture 

 of fine, well-spaced spiral striae marked with series of small punc- 

 tures, and separated by flat intervals; on the back of the penult 

 whorl there are 8 such spirals. The basal third of the last whorl 

 has coarser, deeper spirals and punctures, with convex intervals. 

 The aperture is clouded with cinnamon within. It Is widest in the 

 lower part, the lip being straight and abruptly contracted above. 

 There are six white plaits. 



Length 51, diameter 19, aperture 24.4 mm. Eight whorls (the 

 apex worn.) 



Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Mitra ostergaardi n. sp. PI. XII, fig. 22. 



The shell is fusiform with conic spire somewhat flattened peri- 

 phery, somewhat convexly tapering base, slightly concave below; 

 ochraceous -buff to nearly as dark as ochraceous-orange, the spire 

 usually a little paler. Sculpture of widely-spaced spiral series of 

 small punctures, six on the back of penult whorl, the intervals very 

 minutely, superficially striate spirally; towards the base having 

 punctured spiral grooves. Under the suture the whorls are a little 

 prominent and finely, irregularly crenulate. 



The aperture is flesh-tinted within ; narrow, but slightly wider be- 

 low; lip contracted above. Five plaits. 



Length 43, diameter 15, length aperture 22.3 mm. (summit broken). 



Honolulu Harbor, in the dredger dump. J. M. Ostergaard. 



The color is altered, as in nearly all shells from the "dump," in 

 life it will be found to be much darker in color. It is closely related 

 to M. thaarnmiiana, but the last whorl is decidedly more cylindric, 

 and there are fewer spiral puncture lines. 



Two of the three specimens show a very faint pale line at the 

 shoulder. Some young shells which are perhaps this species 

 have a distinct whitish line at the shoulder. They have 4 colum- 

 ellar plaits. 



Mitra coronata aurora Dolu-n. 



Faded specimens are found in the dump of the Honolulu Harbor 

 dredge. Also taken alive in 150-300 feet off Waikiki by D. B. 

 Langford. Mr. Thaanum collected beautiful living ones at Keekea, 

 Hilo, Hawaii. 



Mitra lugubris Swains. 



Honolulu Harbor; off Waikiki, 35-50 fms. 

 Mitra lugubris honoluluensis n. pub.sp. PI. XII, fig. ifl. 



Similar to M. lugubris in the deep punctures and longitudina' 

 wrinkles, but having small, white subsutural tubtn'cles and a narrow 

 white band a short distance below the suture. 



Length 23, diameter 9.7 mm. 



Honolulu Harbor. 



Mitra (Strigatella) ticaonica vagans n. subsp. PI. XI 1, figs. 14, 15. 



The shell is oblong, solid. Chestnut-brown. Spire short, with 

 sculpture of five impressed spiral lines. Last whorl smooth except 

 at the base, where there are about 10 spiral furrows. 




1920.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



The aperture is long and narrow, dark brown within, the outer 

 Hp contracted above, having a deeply placed median fold in the 

 throat. Cohimellar plaits whitish, four, sometimes with a short 

 tubercle between the first and second. 



Length 25, diameter 10.4, length of aperture 14 mm. 



Length 22.5, diameter 10, length of aperture 12.3 mm. 



Hilo, Hawaii. D. Thaanum. Also collected on the Honolulu 

 Harbor dump in considerable quantity by Prof. Wm. A. Bryan 

 several years ago, and by the writer in 1913. 



Hawaiian examples have the spire less deeply grooved, and the 

 last whorl more extensively smooth than M. ticaonica Reeve of the 

 Philippines. They appear to be worthy of varietal separation. 



Strigatella Juscescens Pse. (Proc. Zool. Soc, 1860, p. 146; Amer. 

 Journ. Conch., Ill, 233) differs by the white aperture and 5-plaited 

 columella. 



The Honolulu specimens have faded to a tawny or ochraceous 

 buff tint. The largest measures, length 31, diameter 1 1 .3, aperture 

 15 mm. (fig. 14). 



Mitra olivellaeformis n. sn. 



The shell is similar to M. ohvaeforrnis Sw. except that it is more 

 slender, and the entire last whorl is provided with impressed, punc- 

 tured spirals, about 13 on the last whorl. 



Length 11.2, diameter 4.7 mm. Type, Niihau. 



Length 15, diameter 5 6 mm Viti Islands. 



Niihau. Type 67779 A. N. S. P. 



The typical M. olivaejormis Swains." has two or three puncture 

 series about the summit of the last whorl. It has been found in 

 Honolulu Harbor by Prof. W. A. Bryan, who gave me a specimen. 



Mitra langfordi n. sv. PI. XII, fig. 20. 



Closely related to M. granatina Lam. (M. scdbriuscula L., of 

 Reeve and Tryon), but constantly smaller, with smaller secondary 

 spirals and several fine striae in the intervals between major spirals; 

 of the latter there are five on the penult whorl, with a smaller one 

 above, near the suture; the brown lines of these spirals are con- 

 tinuous or nearly so (while in granatina they are much interrupted). 

 Columella with four or five plaits. The embryonic stage, of about 

 3 whorls, is smooth and pink. 



Length 35.3, diameter 11.4, length of aperture 18 mm; 8 post- 

 embryonic whorls. 



"Zoological Illustrations II, second series, 1831, Mitranae, pi. 6, fig. 3. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Off Honolulu, D. B. Langford. 



The shell is less elongate than M. gracilis Reeve, and is more 

 closely related to M. granahna than to the M. filosa complex. 



Valuta filans L. (Mantissa p. 548, 1771) is not positively iden- 

 tified, though the opinion of Hanley that it is identified with M. 

 filosa Lam. (not Born), (Kiener's pi. 5, figs. 12), seems probable. 



M. filosa Born ( + M. nexilis Martyn) and M. hernardiana Phil, 

 appear to be distinct and valid species. M. circula Kiener {"cir- 

 culata" of Reeve and Tryon) is also quite distinct. None of these 

 has been taken in Hawaiian waters so far as I know, 



Mitra emersoni n. sp. PI. XII, fig. 19. 



A species closely related to M. crenijer Lam.;^ smaller; the verti- 

 cal impressed lines about twice as far apart. 



The shell is buff with a broad, irregu'ar peripheral band of chest- 

 nut, its upper half interrupted into a series of large spots; also an 

 indistinct, brown band composed of spots and dashes at the base. 



Sculpture of alternately smaller and larger spirals and well-spaced, 

 vertical, impressed lines. Four plaits. Embryonic shell pinkish. 



Length 29.3, diameter 9.3, aperture 16.4 mm. Seven and one- 

 half post-embryonic whorls. 



Off Honolulu. D. B. Langford. 



Named in honor of Mr. Joseph Emerson of Honolulu. 



Mitra pallida Pse. (Proc Zool Soc. London, 1860, p. 146) has not 

 been described with sufficient detail for recognition. 



Mitra waikikiensis n. sp. PI. XII, flg. 17. 



The shell is fusiform, pale brown with ill-defined darker peripheral 

 and basal bands and white tubercles. Sculpture of spiral cords 

 (eleven on the last whorl behind the lip) and lower longitudinal 

 ribs, producing tubercles where they cross the cords. Aperture 

 white. Columella with three plaits, the uppei" large, the lower 

 quite small. 



Length 12.5, diameter 4.8, length of aperture 6.7 mm. 



Length 11.6, diameter 4.5, length of aperture 6.3 mm. 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, in 35-50 fms. D. B. Langford. 



VexiUum thaanumi n. sp. PI. XII, flg. .31. 



The shell is fusiform, rather slender, white, with a cinnamon 

 band below the periphery. At the periphery there are narrow vin- 



^Which perhaps = M. clathrus (Gmelin), but the figure of that is very unsatis- 

 factory. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



aceous or brownish spots between the ri])s, surmounted by a con- 

 tinuous, cinnamon Hne. On the penult whorl this hne is median. 



Sculpture of vertical ribs weakening towards the base, the inter- 

 vals with short impressed lines in a spiral direction; on the last 

 whorl there are 11 ribs and about 19 spirals, exclusive of those on 

 the siphonal fasciole. On the penult whorl there are 10 or 11 im- 

 pressions in an interval. 



The aperture is slightly pink tinted within. Urate in the throat. 

 Five columellar plaits, the lower one very small. 



Length 25.3, diameter 8, aperture 12 mm.; 10 whorls. 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, in 200-300 feet. D. B. Langford. 



Mill a mter striata Sowerby (Thes. Conch, fig. 392) resembles 

 this species somewhat in co^or, h\ii it is wider, contracted more above 

 the more prominent siphonal fasciole, and has a wider aperture. 



Vexillum xenium n. sp. PI. XII, fig. 25. 



The shell is fusiform, white with a chestnut band traversed by 

 several paler spiral lines, below the periphery, two or three paler 

 interrupted lines above it on the summits of the ribs only, and a few 

 widely spaced blackish-brown spots below the suture, on the ends 

 of some of the ribs. The first three whorls are also deep brown. 

 Sculpture of smooth, longitudinal ribs, 22 on the last whorl, 

 equal to their interstices, the latter marked with short impressions 

 in spiral series, 6 on the penult whorl in each interval; base spirally 

 grooved over ribs and intervals forming about 4 spiral series of 

 tubercles. Two obliquely spiral cords are more prominent just 

 above the siphonal fasciole. Aperture shorter than the spire, the 

 throat with 9 thin beaded lirae. Columella with 5 thin plaits. 



Length 18, diameter 7.5, aperture 8.4 mm., 10 whorls. 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, 25-50 fms. D. B. Langford. 



Turricula approxima Pease (P. Z. S. 1860, p. 146) is described as 

 convexly angulated at the sutures and with 4 plaits; it seems there- 

 fore to be a different species. 



Vexillum micra a. sp. 



• 



The shell is fusiform, vinaceous tawny with a band at the peri- 

 phery and another on the base of burnt umber. Sculpture of many 

 vertical rounded ribs, about 30 on the last whorl, the intervals with 

 wide, low spiral cords separated by impressed lines, of which there 

 are 4 on the penult whorl; base with spiral cords. Aperture colored 

 like the outside. Columella with four plaits. The embryonic 

 shell is long-conic, of about 33^ smooth w^horls. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF NoV., 



Length 6.5, diameter 2.7, aperture 3 mm.; 53^ post-embryonic 

 whorls. 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, in 25-50 fms. D. B. Langford. 



One specimen is a httle stouter and lacks the lower brown band. 



Vexillum turben kanaka n. sxibsp. PI. XII, tie;. 26. 



The shell is similar to M. turben Reeve (Philippine Islands) in 

 sculpture and the ochraceous-buff or buff-yellow color, but the spire 

 is more shortly and a little concavely conic above, the penult whorl 

 slightly swollen. There are six plaits, the upper one strong and 

 horizontal. Within the outer lip there is a small fold, more promi- 

 nent than the others about the upper third. 



Length 22.7, diameter 12 mm. 



Length, 21, diameter 10 mm. 



Honolulu, on the dredge dump, J. M. Ostergaard. 



Three specimens of this exquisite shell have been taken. On 

 comparison with a specimen of Reeve's species they show certain 

 differences of shape which seem to be of racial significance. 



The related M. haldwini Melvill is very different in color and 

 sculpture. It should be compared with T. flamimiJata Pease, which 

 may be the same. 



XII. Various other Gastropods 



Murex pele Pilsby. PL XII, figs. 29, 30. 



Murex -pele Pils., Nautilus XXXI, pi. 3, figs. 9, 12. 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, in 35-50 fathoms. D. B. Kuhns, 191G. Type 

 no. 47191 A. N, S. P. Also in the Thaanum collection. 



Closely related to M. rota, which it resembles in general form. 

 Pure white. The nuclear whorls are lost. The first 23^ remaining 

 whorls form a slender, slowly tapering style, the whorls being nearly 

 flat, the suture oblique, well impressed, bridged by a few laminae. 

 After that the shell enlarges abruptly; the next 13^ whorls being 

 carinate, flattened above the keel, very deeply excavated below it, 

 crossed by six lamellar flounced varices on a whorl. The last whorl 

 is rounded with several quite low spiral welts. The six varices, 

 which increase progressively and rapidly in prominence, are connected 

 by broad lamellae with the preceding whorl, dividing the sutural 

 region into a series of deep cavities. The varices bear long spines, 

 blunt or expanded at the ends, crenulated on the back and sides, 

 slit in front. There are two of these processes on each varix much 

 larger than the others, more expanded at the ends. A series of little 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



foliations stands at the front leases of the large processes. The 

 aperture is small, oval. The long anterior canal is nearly or quite 

 closed. 



Length 31, diameter, including spines 18.5 mm. Type, fig. 29. 



Length 40, diameter, including spines, 30 mm. 



The operculum is Purpuroid, the nucleus lateral. It has external 

 sculpture of concentric laminae, which are prominent and crimped 

 in the outer and basal parts, subobsolete in the median and inner 

 portions, which are nearly smooth, or merely wrinkled. 



Compared with M. rota Sowb., this species differs by having 

 fewer enlarged spines. M. rota has four or five subequal ones on 

 the last varix, of which at least three radiate from the aperture like 

 the spokes of a wheel, and one is on the canal. In M. pele there are 

 only two enlarged processes. Other characters of the two species 

 appear to be much aUke, though in the old specimens of M. rota, 

 which alone are at hand for comparison, the whorls of the spire are 

 worn, and the earlier ones lost. It attains a greater size than the 

 Hawaiian species. 



The largest individual of M. pele found (PI. XII fig. 30) is evidently 

 quite, old. It is much encrusted. The quite clean one selected for 

 description (fig. 29) is probably nearly a whorl short of full size. 



Murex torrefactus insulanun n. subsp. 



Specimens from off Waikiki, Oahu, in 35-50 fms. (Langford), 

 differ from the typical form of M. torrejacius Sowb., being relatively 

 larger, with somewhat less complex variceal processes, the second 

 from above nearly as long as the first and receding. M. rubigifiosvs 

 Reeve has a larger aperture, and the second variceal process does 

 not recede. 



Length 69, diameter 44 mm. 



Sistrum vitiense n. sp. 



Viti Islands, A. J. Garrett. Type and paratypes no. 3G732 A. N. 

 S. P. 



The shell is stout, ovately fusiform, solid, with straightly conic 

 spire. The ground color is buff-yellow. It is rather weakly pli- 

 cate longitudinally, with about seven low spiral cords, which are 

 enlarged to form oblong tubercles, from hazel to chestnut-brown in 

 color where they pass over the folds. The tubercles of the series 

 below the suture are lower than the others and separated from the 

 next series by a wider space. Between the tuberculose girdles there 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



are two or three low cords in each space, all being slightly irregular. 

 The rather prominent siphonal fasciole is apricot-orange colored. 



The aperture is white , outer hp having a series of five or six teeth 

 within, the upper and lower ones sHghtly larger. The columella 

 is straight, having several short, rather strong transverse folds be- 

 low the middle. 



Length 22.5, diameter 14 mm. 



It is related to S. concatenatum (Lam.), but it is a more compact 

 shell with smaller white aperture, and much less coarse sculpture. 



Cymatium species. 



Cymatium intermedium (Pease) is the most abundant Triton in 

 Oahu. C. chlorostoma (Lam.) is found in Honolulu Harbor, Hilo 

 and other places. C. tuberosum. Lam. is not uncommon on reefs. 



C. vestitum Hinds^ is represented by a race in which the tooth 

 intervals are carnehan red or rufous, the form more slender, and the 

 few intervariceal ribs are very weak. Length 74, diameter 34mm. 

 This race may be called C. vestitum msulare. Type no. 35279 A. 

 N. S. P. 



The finest specimen I have seen is in the collection of L-win Spald- 

 ing. 



Strombus ostergaardi n. sp. PI. Xll, figs. 27, 28. 



The shell is somewhat pear-shaped, rather solid, white in the only 

 examples known, which are long-dead shells. 



The rather short spire is concavely conic. In the most perfect 

 example the penult whorl is weakly angular above the suture, with 

 very weak, coarse nodes; the next earlier whorl is distinctly angular 

 and tuberculate; above this the tubercles become closer, longer, 

 so that the next two whorls are costate. The conic summit, of about 

 3 convex whorls, is smooth. The last whorl is very slightly com- 

 pressed between face and back. It is slightly swollen behind the 

 outer lip, somewhat flattened preceding the swelling, on the ventral 

 face strongly convex above. It is smooth except for oblique grooves 

 around the lower part and more or less distinct spiral threads near 

 the lip. The suture descends in the last third of a whorl, ascending 

 a little at its termination. The aperture is narrow. Outer lip not 

 excavated posteriorly, having a moderate sinus anteriorly; closely 

 lirate within. The inner lip is thick, with well defined edge, and 

 is regularly lirate throughout. 



^Zoology of the Voyage of the Sulphur, II, 1S44, p. 11, pi. 4, figs. 1, 2. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIET^CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Length 24.5, diameter 12 nun. 



Length 31, diameter 16 mm. 



Honolulu Harbor, from the dredger dump on the Harbor side of 

 Sand Island, J. M. Ostergaard. Also from the Kailua coast, on the 

 north side of Oahu, W. A. Bryan. 



This species is less distorted than S. gibherulus L., with a lirate 

 columellar callus, and no excavation of the outer lip posteriorly. 

 S. hulbulus Sowb. is more closely related, but it has a smooth, thinner 

 and less extended columellar callus, and smooth, convex whorls 

 of the spire. 



While the specimens have the appearance of fossils, it is likely 

 that the species is still to be found living. The single one before me 

 from Kailua is 21.3 mm. long, and has the short spiral threads over 

 the swelling behind the lip more distinct. 



In the largest specimen there seems to be but one nodulose inter- 

 mediate whorl of the spire, the whorls having the usual impressed 

 spiral hne below the suture; but as the spire is quite short, the 

 nodules may be concealed by the enveloping whorls. The sculpture 

 of the spire described above is therefore not a constant feature. 



This. stromb was first found by Mr. Ostergaard in 1905. Sub- 

 sequently he found three more. 



Rissoina striatula hawaiensis n. ^ubsp. 



Differ from R. striatula Pease^" by the constantly smaller size. 



Length 4.5 mm. 



Length 5.2, diameter .2 mm.; 9 whorls (type). 



Length 6.4, diametei- 2.7 mm. 



Oahu: Pamiialu, type loc; Waimea. Kauai: Haena. All col- 

 lected by W. A. and E. J. Bryan. 



R. striatula was described from the Paumotu group. Two speci- 

 mens measure: 



Length 8.3, diameter 3.5 muL 



Length 8.6, diameter 3.4 mm. (Cotype, figured in A. J. G.) 



xin. Pelecypods. 



Modiolus matris n. sp. PI. Xll, fig. 18. 



The shell is small oblong wedge-shaped, strongly inflated, thin, 

 bright colored, the prevalent colors being old rose, apricot buff, 

 picric yeUow, or white with vinaceous rays; having a thin yellowish 



"Amer. Journ. Conch. Ill, 1867, p. 296, pi. 24, fig. 31. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



cuticle, in lai'ge part deciduous, chiefly preserved near tlie posterior 

 end, and bearing very delicate raised concentric striae. Beaks are 

 rather prominent. The hinge-line is short, slightly curved under 

 the beaks. Internal margins smooth. The interior is colored like 

 the outside but usually brighter in tone. 



Greatest length 12.5, greatest breadth 6.5, diameter 6.5 mm. 



Greatest length 12.8, greatest breadth 8, diameter 7 mm. 



There is considerable variation in contour. The largest valve 

 seen, from Moomumi, Molokai, measures, length 19.3, width 10.2, 

 semidiameter 4.8 mm. 



Oahu; Rabbit Island; Paumalu; Mokapuu Point (type loc), 

 Honolulu Harbor. Molokai: Moomomi, Pukahaku. Midway 

 Island. Pearl and Hermes Reef (W. A. and E. J. Bryan). 



Modiolus peasei Newcomb. 



1870. Amer. Journ Conch. V, p. 163, pi. 17, fig. 7. ("Sandwich Islands, 

 dredged in 12 fms., outer harbor of Honolulu"). 



Off Honolulu in 6 fathoms, D. B. Langford, 1915; Off Mala Bay, 

 West Maui, 21 fathoms, Thaanum and Langford, 1918. Fi'om the 

 second locality there are very fine specimens, up to 31 mm. long. 



Mytilus crebristriatus Conrad. 



1837. Conrad, .lourn. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. VII, o. 242. 

 1916. Bryan, Nat. Hist, of Hawaii, p. 4.57, pi. 104, fig. 1. 



Oahu: Honolulu Harbor; Pearl Harbor. Molokai: Kainalu, Ha- 

 waii: Hilo. 



The large typical form of this species is particularly abundant in 

 Pearl Harbor and the adjacent fossil deposits. In Honolulu it 

 occurs on the Kewalo reef, off the mud flats where considerable 

 fresh water comes in, and Melania mauiensis is abundant. Prob- 

 ably typical M. creh) istnaius occurs only where the sslH water is 

 slightly diluted with fresh; on open shores it is replaced by a small 

 form. 



The usual length of M. crehristriatus is from 25 to 35 mm. So far 

 as we know, the only published figure is that in Bryan's Natural 

 History of Hawaii. 



A very thick form was found fossil at Waimanalo, Oahu, by Prof. 

 Bryan. 



On most of the open beaches a small form, which may be called 

 form mantima, is found in abundance; the length is 10 to 15 nmi. 

 Localities for this form follow, mainly from the Bryan collection. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Ocean Island. Mokunianu. Kauai: Hanalei, Haena, Milolii, 

 Kalalau. Oahu: Honolulu Harbor, Mokapu Point, Kailua, Pau- 

 malu, Waimanalo, Kaneohe Bay, Laie. Molokai: Moomomi, 

 Kaina'u, Papohaku. Maui: Maalaea Bay, Kahului. Hawaii: Hilo. 



At Kainalu, Molokai, a set was taken having the shell very thin 

 and frail, the corrugation weakly developed. Length 17 mm. 



Congeria bryanae n. sp. 



The shell is triangular, very much inflated along the middle of its 

 length, the ventral side flattened and subtruncate, the posterior and 

 dorsal borders, beyond the hinge, broadly rounded. Sculpture of 

 very numerous radial riblets crossed by closer and narrower concen- 

 tric threads which are more prominent in the intervals. The color 

 is green or yellow, uniform or clouded in varying shades and tints, 

 often with some irregular, maculation of brown, or whitish and pale 

 yellow with vinaceous or pink maculation The interior is whitish, 

 more or less tinted with the external colors. The septum is small, 

 There are about 10 rather strong teeth in each valve, between beaks 

 and septum, and a group of elongated crenulations at the posterior 

 end of the hinge-line. The rest of the internal margin is delicately 

 crenul'ate. 



Length 6.5, width 4.3, diameter 5 mm. 



Length 11.2, width 6.6, diameter 6 mm. 



Oahu: Mokapu Point, Kailua, Paumalu, Rabbit Island (type 

 loc), Makapuu Point, Honolulu Harbor. Kauai: Mouth of Han- 

 alei River. Molokai: Moomomi. Laysan Island. Pearl and Her- 

 mes Reef (W. A. and E. J. Bryan). 



Mytilus hifurcatus Conrad, said to be from the Sandwich Islands, 

 is a common Cahfornian species. See Nautilus XII, Oct., 1898, p. 

 69. 



Cardium thaanumi n. sp. PI. XII, flg. 24. 



The shell is small, plump, thin. Beaks full, sUght^ inclined 

 forward, nearly smooth; posterior end truncate, anterior rounded. 

 White with the beaks and numerous rays of a light coral red color; 

 the rays faint except towards the periphery. 



Sculpture of many very fine, even radial striae, which are closely, 

 minutely prickly towards the periphery and ends. Hinge-teeth 

 well developed; inner margin crenulated. 



Length 11, height 10.5, diameter 9 mm. 



Off Waikiki, Oahu, 35 to 50 fathoms. Also off Launiupoko 

 Camp, near Lahaina, West Maui 4 to 8 fathoms, Thaanum and 

 Langford. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Two other species of Cardtum are not uncommon, the large Ca?- 

 dtum orhita B. and S., Hilo, Hawaii (Thaanum); Moomomi, Molo 

 kai, Haena, Kauai (Bryan), and C. arcuatulum Sowerby, a very 

 small, angular Fragum, from Hilo, Hawaii (Thaanum); Honolulu 

 (Bryan), and Haleiwa (Pilsbry), Oahu. 



Solecardia bryani n. sp. Fig. 5. 



The shell is thin, oval, somewhat inequilateral, moderately plump, 

 white. Upper and lower margins subequally curved; anterior end 

 narrower than the posterior, both being rounded. Except the 

 beaks, the surface is minutely densely punctate, more coarsely so 

 near the ends; the points arranged in radial lines on the dorsal 

 posterior slope, elsewhere irregularly or in indistinct zigzags. Right 

 valve having a slender, erect, cardinal and a low, elongate posterior 

 tooth. 



Fig. .5. — Solpcardia bryani, n. sp., interior and dorsal view of ri^ht valve. 



Length 10.8, altitude, 7.8, diameter 5.2 mm. 

 Oahu: Paymalu, W. A. and E. L. Bryan. 



Solecardia hawaiensis n. sp. Fig. 6, a, b, c. 



The shell is thin, white, oblong, moderately plump, inequilateral. 

 Dorsal margin arched, a little more curved than the basal; anterior 

 end vertically subtruncate, anterior end rounded. Beaks \ery 

 small with more convex, orbicular embryonic caps. Surface glossy, 

 with fine growth lines only. Interior dull, the muscle impressions 

 and pallia] line rather indistinct. Right valve with a strong, erect 

 anterior tooth and an elongate, lower posterior. Left valve has 

 strong median, weak anterior and elongate posterior tooth. 



Length 7, altitude 4.8, diameter 3.4 mm. 



Hawaii: Hilo, Thaanum, type loc. Kahoolawe, on the north 

 shore (Pilsbry). Molokai: Kainalu and Moomomi (Bryan). Oahu: 

 Honolulu Harbor and Paumalu (Bryan), near Kahuku and Haleiwa 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



325 



(Pilsbry). Kauai: Hanalei river (Bryan). Laysan Island (Capt. 

 Brown) . 



Near the figure of SaniiUa deshayesi Sowb., l)ut more elongate, 

 not so abrupt posteriorly. Erycina ovata Gld." is less inequilateral, 

 and the anterior truncation is a Uttle oblique. The teeth, too, 

 appear to differ, if Gould's figure is correct. 



Solecardia hawaiensis obesior n. sub.p. Fig. 6, d, e. 



Similar to »S'. hawaiensis, but plumper, shorter, with wider beaks. 

 Length 7, altitude 5.3, diameter 4.7 mm. 

 Honolulu Harbor (W. A. and E. L. Bryan). 



Fig. 6. — a, b, Solecardia hawaiensis, interior and dorsal views of right valve; 

 c, hinge of left valve, d. c, Solecardia hawaiensis ohesior, lateral and dorsal 

 views. 



Solecardia stigmatica n. sp. Fig. 7 



The shell is very thin, fragile, somewhat ovate, the anterior end 

 narrower, posterior end broadly rounded, rather compressed, white, 

 with a median radial russet band, fading at the edges and below. 

 Surface glossy, marked with faint growth lines. Interior dull. Right 

 valve having a slender, erect cardinal tooth. Left valve with an 

 elongate, lower one. 



"U. S. Expl. Exped. Mollusca, p. 401, pi. 44, figs. 387-3876. Sandwich Is- 

 lands. 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Length 5.3, altitude 3.5, diameter 1.8 mm. 



Hilo, Hawaii, D. Thaanum. 



Easily known by the rich brown stripe. 



Fi{^. 7. — Solecardia stigmalica n. sp. Fig. <S. — Solccardia thaanumi, n. sj). 

 Solecardia (Scintilla) thaanumi n. sp. Fig. S. 



The shell is white, oblong, the basal margin slightly more curved 

 than the upper, not gaping; ends rounded, the anterior slightly 

 shorter; compressed, slightly inequilateral. Beaks very small, 

 capped with minute, orbicular embryonic valves. Surface with 

 faint growth lines. Interior dull, minutely vermiculate with white 

 on a grayish ground outside of the pallial line, which is distinct and 

 irregular. Cardinal tooth of right valve very low, indistinct. 



Length 6.75, altitude 4.25, diameter 2.4 mm. 



Hawaii: Hilo, D. Thaanum. 



Solecardia (Scintilla) chascax n. sp. Fig. 9. 



The shell is very thin, fragile, compressed, oblong, subequilateral, 

 broadly gaping below ; whitish, translucent. Hinge margin straight; 



Fig. 9. — Solecardia chascax, interior and ventral views. 



basal margin straightened in the middle, then somewhat dilated 

 anteriorly; ends rounded. Beaks very small. Both valves have a 

 very low, indistinct cardinal nodule but no other teeth. 



Length 6.9, altitude 3.8, diameter 2 mm, 



Hawaii: Hilo, D. Thaanum. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1920. 



PLATE XII. 



PILSBRY: MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAWAII, VIII-XIII. 





1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Thecodonta (?) symmetrica n. sp. Fig. 10. 



The shell is oval; white, very inequilateral, the beaks being nearly 

 terminal, moderately convex, basal margin more curved than the 

 dorsal. Exterior smooth except for very faint growth lines. In the 

 right valve there is a bilobed tooth in front of the beaks, low, elong- 

 ate lamina posteriorly. 



Length 2.65, altitude 1.9, diameter 1.1 mm. 



Oahu: Haleiwa on the beach, Pilsbry, 1913. 



Fig. 10. — Thecodonta (?) symmetrica. Fig. 11. — Nucula hawaiensis n. sp. 

 Nucula hawaiensis n. sp. Fig. H. 



The shell is white, broadly ovate, moderately plump, smooth 

 near the beaks, elsewhere very closely ridged with smooth, regular 

 concentric striae. Anterior end broadly rounded, posterior narrowly 

 rounded; basal margin more arcuate than the dorsal. The teeth 

 are rather short, 5 before and 10 behind. 



Length 2.8, altitade 2.2, diameter 1.5 mm. 



Oahu: Haleiwa, on the beach, Pilsbry, 1913. 



Probably immature. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XII. 



Fig. 1. — Terebra thaanumi n. sp. Type 117019. 



Fig. 2. — Terebra thaanumi Waikiki. 74526. 



Fig. 3. — Terebra flavofasciata n. sp. Tj^je. 46909. 



Fig. 4. — Terebra argus brachygyra n. subsp. Type. 46910. 



Fig. 5. — Terebra langfordi n. sp. Type. 117038. 



Fig. 6. — Terebra langfordi angustior n. subsp. Type. 



Fig. 7. — Terebra lanceata oahuensis n. subsp. 117041. 



Fig. 8-10. — Terebra medipacifica n. sp. Type and paratype. 117039. 



Fig. 11. — -Terebra medipacifica melior n. subsp. Type. 



Fig. 12. — Terebra waikikiensis n. sp. Type. 117030. 



Fig. 13. — Terebra spaldingi n. sp. Type. 117044. 



Fig. 14. — Mitra ticaonica vagans n. subsp. Honolulu Harbor. 



Fig. 15. — Mitra ticaonica vagans n, subsp. Type. Hilo. 46790. 



Fig. 16. — Mitra lugubris honoluluensis n. subsp. Type. 46793. 



Fig. 17. — Mitra imikikensis n. sp. Type. 46788. 



Fig. 18. — Modiolus matris n. sp. Type. 47193. 



Fig. 19. — Mitra emersoni n. sp. Type. 46804. 



Fig. 20. — Mitra langfordi n. sp. Type. 46805. 



Fig. 21. — Mitra thaanumiana n. sp. Type. 46810. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Fig. 22. — Mitra ostergaardi n. sp. Type. 46770. 



Fig. 23. — Mitra kamehameha n. sp. Type. 46793. 



Fig. 24. — Cardium thaanumi n. sp. Type. 47179. 



Fig. 25. — Vexillum xenium n. sp. Type. 116983. 



Fig. 26. — Vexillum turben kanaka m. subsp. Type. 46763. 



Figs. 27, 28. — Strombus ostergaardi n. sp. Type and paratype. 74549. 



Figs. 29, 30. — Murex pele Pils. Type and paratype. 



Fig. 31. — Vexillum thaanumi n. sp. 46820. 




1920. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



329 



A COLOMBIAN PUPILLID SNAIL. 



BY HENRY A, PJLSBRY. 



Among other interesting mollusks collected by Messrs. Morgan 

 Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn during their recent visit to Colombia, 

 there were specimens of a peculiar snail of the family Pupillidse, 

 which may be described as follows. 



Gastrocopta colombiana n. sp. Figs. 1-4. 



The shell is thin, faintly brown tinted, subcylindric, but tapering 

 very slowly from the last whorl, composed of 53^2 strongly convex 

 whorls, the last whorl somewhat flattened dorsally, with a slight 

 impression over the inner part of the lower palatal fold. Faintly 

 striate. The aperture is squarish-oval; peristome thin, well ex- 

 panded and reflected, continuous across the parietal wall, but very 

 shortly adnate there. The angulo-parietal lamella reversed y- 



Figs. 1, 2. — Gaslrocopia colombiana, enlarged aperture and front view of type. 



Fig. 3. — Columella and parietal wall seen from below, the peristome above, show- 

 ing: c, columellar lamella; p, parietal, and a, angular lamellae. 



Fig. 4. — Inside of the palatal wall, the peristome on the right, s, suprapalatal 

 fold; u, upper palatal; I, lower palatal, and b. basal folds. 



shaped, the angular sinuous, emerging to the lip edge, parietal 

 arcuate, higher, emerging much less. Columellar lamella strong, 

 lunate, the inner half descending, outer horizontal. Within the 

 outer lip there is a small, high, suprapalatal fold and a larger, more 

 immersed upper palatal. Lower palatal fold is very long, somewhat 

 immersed, oblique and indistinctly binodose in front, its upper end 

 continued inward as a slender ridge, then enlarging into a high, 

 stout fold. The basal fold is transverse, weakly bilobed. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Length 2, diameter 9 mm. 



Puerto Columbia, dept. Atlantico, Colombia, on limestone hills. 

 Morgan Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn, 1920. Type and paratypes no. 

 46634 A. N. S. P. 



While this species of the subgenus Immersidens is somewhat 

 similar to G. cochisensis, G. daUiana and other North American 

 snails of the same subgenus, it differs remarkably in the palatal 

 folds, the upper being doubled, probably by division of a primi- 

 tively single upper palatal, and the lower fold enters so deeply that 

 its full structure can be understood only by breaking out the palatal 

 wall, as in fig. 4. 



A weak-toothed form of Gastrocopfa senilis (Gld.,) referable to 

 G. s. riisei (Pfr.), was found in the same locality. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



STATISTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE TEXAS FEVER PARASITE. 



BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



The study herein described was based on material obtained from 

 two cows, Nos. 1025 and 1031, of the series of the Experiment Sta- 

 tion of the United States Bureau of Animal Industry. These, being 

 so-called northern animals, were susceptible to Texas fever, and 

 were both inoculated with this disease by infestation with infectious 

 seed ticks on June 27, 1913. Cow No. 1031 died on July 10, and a 

 series of preparations was obtained shortly after death from the 

 heart muscle, the hver, the spleen, and the kidney. Cow No. 1025 

 died July 11, and a set of smears was obtained from the heart muscle. 



The morphology of the Texas fever parasite, for which the correct 

 name appears to be Babesia hovis, has been described a number of 

 times and is in consequence a matter of common knowledge. This 

 phase of the biology of the organism was therefore not studied, but 

 since the material obtained, especially from Cow 1031, was rich in 

 parasites and parasitized cells, a statistical investigation was under- 

 taken. This had to do, first, with the relative numbers of paras- 

 itized and non-parasitized cells; second, with the number of indi- 

 vidual parasites in each parasitized cell; third, with the varying 

 conditions found in the several organs of Cow 1031 ; finally, a 

 count was made of the parasites occuring free in the preparations. 

 The exact significance of these latter is somewhat problematical, 

 since, theoretically, they may either represent elements escaped from 

 a blood cell, or merely what remains after the blood cell has been 

 destroyed.' The latter supposition seems the more probable, since 

 these parasites, like those within the cells, may occur either singly 

 or in multiple form. Indeed, the fact that these apparent free 

 parasites occur in multiple form rather suggests that they are still 

 lying in some remant of the blood cell which does not stain. The 

 impression received from an examination of this material is that 

 these "free" parasites have no especial significance, and are to be 

 placed in the same category as those still lying in intact blood cells. 



The smears were fixed in alcohol and stained with Giemsa. The 

 method of study was very simple. A small square was cut on a 




S32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



round cover glass with a diamond, and placed in the eye-piece 

 of the microscope. The square marked out a small region in the 

 smear and all the cells in this region were then taken into account. 

 These regions were selected wholly at random, in fact, without being 

 first seen. The only restriction was that those cases where the blood 

 cells were very closely crowded were not used. 



Taking up first the ratio of parasitized and non-parasitized cells, 

 the counts made gave the following results: 



Table 1. 



Cow 1031 Parasitized cells Non-parasitized cells Total 



Heart 4563 4083 8646 



Kidney 767 464 1231 



Spleen 348 249.'5 2843 



Liver 1048 1646 2694 



Totals 6726 8688 15414 



Cow 1025 

 Heart 2.50 3732 3982 



Reducing the above to percentages we obtain: 



Table 2. 



Cow 1031 Parasitized Non-parasitized 



Heart 52.8 per cent. 47.2 per cent. 



Kidney 62.3 37.7 



Liver 38.9 61.1 



Spleen 12.2 . 87.7 



Totals 43.64 56.36 



Cow 1025 



Heart 6.30 93.70 



The first distinction to be noted is that between the two cows. In 

 1031, at least as regards the heart, the split is about even, there 

 being practically as many parasitized as non- parasitized cells. On 

 the other hand, in Cow 1025, the ratio is roughly 1 to 15. This cow 

 eurvived for one day longer than did 1031, and this may be the 

 sxplanation, but a much more precise study than was made would 

 be necessary to elucidate this problem. 



Turning our attention to Cow 1031, it is easily seen that there is a 

 marked distinction between the conditions in the different organs. 

 The heart, kidney, and liver may be grouped, although the differ- 

 ences between them are too great to be accredited to a mere acci 

 dental variation. It may also be noted that the liver shows a lower 

 ratio of parasitized cells than does either the heart or kidney. This 

 is in contrast to what occurs in infections with trypanosomes, these 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



parasites tending to persist in the liver after they have disappeared 

 from other organs. At least this is stated to be the condition found 

 post mortem. 



But the \ery low percentage of parasitized cells present in the 

 spleen, only 12.2 per cent, as against the general percentage of 43.64 

 in this cow is very clearly significant. It is usual to ascribe to the 

 spleen a hemolytic function, and we appear to have an example of 

 it here. The assumption is that the cells would themselves be 

 destroyed, and along with them their contained parasites. In the 

 case in point, however, it is necessary to assume that the parasitized 

 cells are destroyed more easily than those which are still intact, but 

 this is something which would be anticipated. The presence of the 

 piroplasm in the cell would in all probability render it more suscept- 

 ible to any destructive influence. 



In the parasitized cells, the number of parasites per cell ranges 

 from one to six, the following table showing the count: 



Table 3. 



Parasites per Cell 



Cow 1031 1. 2. S. 4. 5. 6. Total. 



Heart 3537 5354 247 151 4 1 9294 



Kidney 1237 305 20 5 1567 



Liver 2372 315 10 4 2701 



Spleen 1301 85 2 10 1389 



Cow 1025 



Heart 1317 1394 29 22 2762 



Totals 9764 7458 308 183 4 1 17713 



Reducing the above to percentages, we obtain: 



Table 4. 



Cow 1031 /. 2. 3. 4- 5. 6. 



Heart 38.06 57.61 2.66 1.62 .04 .01 



Kidney 78.94 19.46 1.28 .32 



Liver 87.82 11.66 .37 .15 



Spleen 93.67 6.12 .14 .07 



Cow 1025 



Heart 47.68 50.47 1.05 .80 



Totals 55.12 42.08 1.74 1.03 02 .01 



It is perhaps desirable to mention what at first glance looks like a 

 discrepancy in the data. For example, in Table 3 there are given 

 2762 parasitized cells from the heart of Cow 1025, whereas in Table 

 1 this cow is credited with only 250 parasitized cells. This merely 

 means that in the two cases the results were based on different 

 counts. Thus, in the data given in Table 1 the cells were merely 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



separated into those that were parasitized and those that were not. 

 It was found much easier to handle the material in this manner 

 and the data given in Table 3 were based on a wholly separate set 

 of observations from those given in Table 1. It is, however, believed 

 that in obtaining the results set forth in Tables 1 and 2, the number 

 of cells counted is large enough. 



Turning our attention now to Tables 3 and 4, the percentages 

 obtained from the slides taken from the hearts of Cows 1025 and 

 1031, respectively, are probably not far enough apart to warrant 

 any conclusions, but a sharp distinction is to be seen between the 

 findings in the different organs of Cow 1031. Thus, whereas, in the 

 heart there were only some 38 per cent of the single parasites, this 

 percentage rises to nearly 94 in the case of the spleen. It has already 

 been suggested that the low percentage of parasitized cells in the 

 spleen may be explained by supposing that the parasitized cell is 

 more easily destroyed than that not parasitized. If this be so it 

 would be consistent to suppose that as the number of parasites 

 present increases, the invaded cell becomes more and more readily 

 destroyed. For, since the parasite must enter the cell as a single 

 organism, the multiplicative stages are indicative of a more pro- 

 longed occupancy, which in its turn is correlated with a greater 

 damage to the cell. Moreover, two or more parasites occupy a 

 greater volume than one, and this also would render the cell more 

 liable to destruction. It is in support of this explanation that the 

 liver stands next to the spleen both in regard to the proportion of 

 parasitized cells and in the proportion of those which contain but 

 a single parasite. These figures at least suggest that the- liver is not 

 a favorable environment for Babesia. 



In addition to the above, a number of the so called "free" para- 

 sites were counted, the results being given in Tables 5 and 6. This 

 could not be done with the spleen, which may be due either to the 

 fact that the smears from this organ are never so clean as those from 

 other situations, or to the fact that, as suggested, the parasites arc 

 here more quickly destroyed. The tables follow: 



Cow 1031 1. 



Heart 623 



Kidney 1044 



Liver 262 



Cow 1025 



304 



Totals 2233 1S20 54 63 2 1 4173 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Changing these figures to percentages we obtain : 



Table 6. 



Cow 1031 



Heart 35.46 60.16 2.16 2.22 



Kidney 81.89 17.49 .31 .31 



UvGT 90.34 9.66 



Cow 1025 



Heart 35.73 60.17 1.41 2.35 .23 .11 



Totals 53.51 43.61 1.29 1.51 .05 .03 



If Table 6 be compared with Table 4 it will be observed that there 

 is a quite close accord so far as Cow 1031 is concerned. With regard 

 to Cow 1025, howTver, there is a noticeable smaller percentage of the 

 single forms. It is also to be noted that whereas in Table 3 there are 

 a good many more parasites in the three stage than in the four, that 

 this is reversed in Table 5. 



Finally, as regards the numl^er of parasites in each group, Tables 

 7 and 8 combine lioth those present in the cells and those which were 

 apparently free. 



Table 7. 



Cow 1031 1. S. .1. 4. fj. 0. Total 



Heart 4160 6411 285 190 4 1 1 1051 



Kidney 2281 528 24 9 2842 



Liver 2634 343 10 4 2991 



Spleen 1301 85 2 10 1389 



Cow 1025 



Heart 1621 1906 41 42 2 1 3613 



Totals 11997 9273 362 246 6 2 21886 



Reducing to the usual percentages we get: 



Table 8. 



Cow 1031 ■ 1. 2. 3. Jt. 5. 6. 



Heart 37.64 58.01 2.58 1.72 .04 .01 



Kidney 80.26 18.58 .84 .32 .0 



Liver." 88.07 11.47 .33 .13 



Spleen 93.67 6.12 .14 .07 



Cow 1025 



Heart 44.87 52.75 1.13 1.16 .06 .03 



Totals 54.82 42.37 1.65 1.12 .03 .01 



The percentages of Table 8 run very close to those of both Tables 

 4 and 6, whjch was of course to be expected. It may be of interest 

 to note that of nearly twenty-two thousand cases there were only 

 six groups of five and two groups of six. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



With regard to the shape of the paired parasites, they were either 

 approximately round or approximately piriform. Of 741 cases 

 noted, in 406 the parasites were round, in 335 piriform. It 

 may be mentioned, however, that the parasites found in smears of 

 the organs made post-mortem are always smaller and rounder than 

 those in smears made from the peripheral blood of the living cow. 

 To the best of my knowledge, the only author who has emphasized 

 this fact is Theobold Smith. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



AMERICAN DERMAPTERA OF THE MUSEUM NATIONAL D'HISTOIRE 



NATURELLE, PARIS, FRANCE. 



BY MORGAN HEBARD. 



The series here treated was recently forwarded for determination 

 by Monsieur Lucien Berland, of the Paris Museum. Though in- 

 cluding but one hundred and seven specimens, the collection has 

 been found to have represented in it a number of little-known as well 

 as undescribed forms, well worth reporting as a contribution to the 

 knowledge of the American Dermaptera. 



The series has been returned to the Paris Museum, with the ex- 

 ception of a few duplicates now in the collection of the author, de- 

 posited at The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Thirty-six species are represented. Of the new species described, 

 one is from Guatemala, three from French Guiana and one from 

 Argentina. 



PYGIDICRANIDAE . 

 PYGIDICRANINAE. 



Fygidicrana bivittata Erichson. 



1848. Pygidicrana bivittata Erichson in Schomberg, Reisen in Brit. Guiana, 

 III, p. 579. [British Guiana.] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, IV to V, 1914, 1 juv. 



The present determination is made with some uncertainty, as 

 the immature example before us (length, exclusive of forceps, 11.3 

 mm.) has the pronotum heavily suffused with blackish, being pale 

 only in a medio-longitudinal line and along the lateral and caudal 

 margins. The difference from the original description may be due 

 to individual intensification of color pattern, or an undescribed 

 species may be represented. 



The head, mesonotum, metanotum and abdomen are black, ex- 

 cept the four proximal abdominal tergites, which are buffy in a 

 broad median section. The limbs are buffy, with the femora suf- 

 fused with black ventrad on their cephalic faces. The forceps are 

 long (3.7 mm.), straight and slender, subadjacent to their sharply 

 incurved and acute apices, with internal margin microscopicall}^ 

 serrulate. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF NoV., 



PYRAGRINAE. 

 Pyragra fuscata Serville. 



1831. Pyragra fuscata Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 34. [French 

 Guiana.] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 19,1 juv. St. Laurent du 

 Maroni, French Guiana, 1 9 . Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana, 

 1 juv. 



Pyragra brasiliensis (Gray). 



1832. Forjicula brasiliensis Gray in Griffith, Anim. Kingd., XV, p. 184, 

 pi. 78, fig. 2. [Brazil.] 



Curityba, Parana, Brazil, Icf. San Ignacio, Misiones, Argen- 

 tina, 1 9 . 



Pyragropsis paraguayensis (Boreili). 



1904. Pyragra paraguayensis Boreili, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Univ. 

 Torino, XIX, No. 479, p. 1. [cT, 9 ; Asuncion, lAique and Villa Rica, 

 Paraguay; Caiza and Mission of Aguairenda, Bolivia; Corumbd,, Brazil.] 



Villa Lutecia, San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, I to IV, 1910, 

 19,1 juv. 



LABIDURIDAE. 

 ESPHALMENINAE. 



Esphalmenus lativentris (Plailippi). 



1863. Forjicula lativentris Philii)pi, Zeitschr. gesam. Naturwiss., XXI, 

 p. 217. [cT, 9; Province of Valdivia, Chile.] 



Province of Aconcagua, Chile, (Jose N. Thomas), 29. 



PSALINAE. 

 Psalis americana (Beavivois). 



1817. Forjicula americana Beauvois, Ins. rec. Afr. Amer., p. 165, Orth., 

 pi. XIV, fig. 1. [San Domingo.] 



Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Bcf, 39. Havana, Cuba, 19- 



Euborellia jane'rensis (Dohrn). 



1864. F[orcinella] janeirensis Dohrn, Stett. Ent. Zeit., XXV, p. 285. [Rio 

 de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Bahia, Brazil, 1 juv.^ 



Euborellia minuta (Caudell). 



1907. Aiiisolabis minuta Caudell, .lour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XV, p. 168. |cf, 

 9 ; Arroyo and Mayaguez, Porto Rico.] 



Havana, Cuba, 1 cf , 19. 



1 Three females recorded by Rehn as Anisolahis annulipes (H. Lucas) from 

 Independencia, Parahyba, Brazil, are found to represent individuals of the pres- 

 ent species in the instar preceding maturity. Adults from that locality were 

 at the same time correctly assigned by that author. (Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, 

 XLII, p. 218, 1916.) 




1920.] NATURiVL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Euborellia annulipes (H. Lucas). 



1847. Forjicclisa tuinulipes H. Lucas, Bull. Soo. Ent. FraiUH', (2), V, j). 

 LXXXIV. [Jardiji des Plantes, Paris, France, (probably introduced).] 



Montevideo, Uruguay, 2 9 • 



Euborellia peregrina (Mjoberg). 



1904. Anisolabis peregrina Mjoberg, Ent. Tidsk. Stockholm, 1904, p. 131. 

 [ 9 ; Stockholm, Sweden, introduced from St. Anna, Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



St. Laui-ent du Maroni, French Guiana, XII, 19. Nouveau 

 Chantier, French Guiana, XII, 1 9 . 



The two females at hand agree in all important features with the 

 original description. We would note that the cephalic tibiae, in 

 addition to being well supplied with hairs distad on all but the dorsal 

 surface, have the distal margin ventrad armed with a very closely 

 placed fringe of chaetif orm spines ; these, due to the size of this spe- 

 cies, being more conspicuous than in specimens of the other species 

 of Euborellia at hand. 



Length of body (exclusive of forceps) 16.9 and 17.8; greatest 

 width of head, 2.6 and 2.8; length of pronotum, 2.7 and 2.7; cephalic 

 width of pronotum, 2.3 and 2.6; caudal width of pronotum, 2.7 and 

 3; length of forceps, laterally 3.3 and 3.7, dorsally 2.8 and 3 mm. 



For the type female the total length is given as 23, the length of 

 the forceps as 3 nun. 



Euborellia scudderi (Boimans). 



1900. Psialis] scudderi Bormans, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, (2), 

 XX, p. 449. [ 9 ; Puerto 14 de Mayo, Upper Paraguay (now in Bolivian 

 Chaco); Olivenza, Amazon River (Brazil).] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, V, 1 9 . 



Length of body 10, length of pronotum 1.3, length of tegnien 

 2.2, length of exposed portion of wing 1.6, length of forceps 1.7 mm. 



This specimen has fully developed tegmina and wings, but agrees 

 so closely with material in the Philadelphia Collections which we 

 believe to represent this species, showing a varied development of 

 the organs of flight, that we make the present assignment feeling 

 assured that we here have to deal with a species which develops a 

 remarkably wide range of tegminal and wing variation. 



The present specimen agrees closely Avith a female from Porto 

 Velho, Rio Madera, Brazil except that in that specimen the teg- 

 mina and exposed portions of the wings are not as elongate. Both 

 of these specimens have the femora more generally and not as con- 

 trastingly darkened as the specimens having short tegmina and no 



2 Recorded by Rehn as Psalis sp. Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLII, p. 219, (1916). 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF NoV. 



apparent wings at hand. In addition they are shghtly more robust, 

 with shorter and more trmicate pronotum than the specimens re- 

 corded by Rehn from Para, Brazil,^ ])ut agree fully in these respects 

 with the original description, as well as with specimens from Chan- 

 chamayo, Peru, before us, which show even greater tegminal reduc- 

 tion than the Para individuals, 



Labidura riparia (Pallas). 



1773. Forficula riparia Pallas, Reise Russischen Reichs, II, Buch 2, Anhang. 



p. 727. [cf ; shores of Irtysch (Irtin) River, western Siberia.] 



Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1 cf . 



Labidura xanthopus (Stal). 



1855. Fiorficdisa] .rantJwpus St&I, Ofv. Vet. Akad. Forh., XII, p. 348. 

 [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, III and IV, 1 9 . Tucuman, 

 (border of Rio Chilimayo), Argentina, 2 9 . Icano, Santiago del 

 Estero, Argentina, 2 9 • 



The females from the last locality alone have the wings visible 

 and fully developed. These have the pronotum proportionately 

 smaller and distinctly more slender than the others. 



LABI ID AE. 

 SPONGIPHORINAE. 

 Purex formosus ntw species. (Plate XIII, figs. 1 and 2.) 



This handsome species appears to be widely distinct from the 

 other known forms of the genus, agreeing in certain features of 

 coloration more closely with hrunneri (Bormans), from the upper 

 Amazon, than with the others. 



The male pygidium, though more highly specialized and much 

 more declivent, recalls the type developed in Vostox brunneipennis 

 (Serville), (see plate XIII, fig. 3). 



The male forceps show a much weaker curvature than is devel- 

 oped in several species of Purex and are distinctive in having a heav}^ 

 median and smaller uncinate proximal tooth on the ventro-internal 

 margin. 



Type — cf ; Gourdonville, French Guiana. October. [Paris Mu- 

 seum.] 



Size medium, form slender. Head depressed, broadly convex 

 surface between eyes showing two small and weak impressions, 



* As Pnalis scudderi with a query. Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLII, p. 218, (1916). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 341 



sutures obsolete; very weak but distinct depressions run from the 

 eyes toward the middle of the caudal margin of the occiput; cheeks 

 almost as long as eyes, caudal margin of occiput very broadly and 

 weakly concave. Antennae with first joint three times as long as 

 distal width, enlarged in distal three-fifths; second joint very small; 

 third joint three-fifths as long as first; fourth slightly shorter; suc- 

 ceedmg joints increasing regularly in length and slenderness distad. 

 Pronotum small, three-quarters as broad as head, longer than wide, 

 lateral margins almost straight and showing an almost imperceptible 

 divergence caudad, caudal margin rather strongly convex; surface 

 of prozona weakly convex and showing a faint medio-longitudinal 

 linear sulcus, other portions deplanate except narrowly toward the 

 lateral margins where they are obliquely raised. Tegmina very 

 wide at shoulders where their combined width is slightly less than 

 twice the pronotal width, their length over twice that of pronotum, 

 narrowing evenly caudad, with caudal margins weakly oblique. 

 Wings fully developed, exposed portion nearly one-third as long as 

 tegmen. Abdomen widening moderately to distal portion, glands 

 of second and third tergites moderately prominent. Ultimate ter- 

 gite very slightly produced between forceps, caudal margin laterad 

 weakly concave and very weakly oblique, mesad straight, trans- 

 verse. Between the base of each arm of the forceps and the trans- 

 verse portion of the caudal margin, this tergite is inflated, weakly 

 convex, being depressed about these areas externally and in the 

 entire median area between them. Pygidium almost perpendicular, 

 as long as wide, lateral margins straight and parallel, latero-distal 

 margins weakly concave, oblique to the minute medio-distal portion 

 which is produced in a minute bi-denticulate projection, the angles 

 formed by the lateral and latero-distal margins also each produced 

 in a slightly larger denticulation. Forceps feebly divergent in prox- 

 imal fourth, thence almost straight to near the incurved apices, 

 moderately heavy proximad, tapering gently to apices; dorsal sur- 

 face deplanate to near distal portion, with delicate rounded ridge 

 bordering the external margin; internal surface flattened, unarmed 

 except for a small ventro-proximal uncinate tooth, with apex di- 

 rected caudad, and just before the middle with a heavy and moder- 

 ately large triangular ventral tooth, directed meso-ventrad. Caudal 

 margin of penultimate sternite transverse. Caudal metatarsus with 

 ventral surface well supplied with fine hairs, combined length of 

 two succeeding joints about three-quarters that of metatarsus. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Length of body 8^., greatest width of head 1.25, length of prono- 

 tum .95, length of tegmen 2.1, greatest width of abdomen 1.7, 

 length of forceps 2.8 mm. 



Head blackish chestnut brown. Antennae with first two joints 

 prouts brown, succeeding joints paler, buckthorn brown, deepening 

 rapidly to mummy brown, which is the color of the seventh to tenth 

 joints (remaining joints missing). Pronotum and limbs immacu- 

 late ochraceous-buff tinged with tawny. Tegmina chestnut brown, 

 showing weakly the paler pronotal coloration at the shoulders and 

 distad, with a small oval of the same coloration mesad, this oval 

 half on the tegmina and half on the exposed portions of the wings 

 and as long as the tegminal width at that point (compare brunneri) , 

 remaining exposed portion of wings chestnut brown. Abdomen 

 dorsad russet tinged with cinnamon-brown distad, except laterad 

 about the glands where it is blackish chestnut brown. Forceps 

 russet tinged with cinnamon-brown. 



The type of this graceful little insect is unique. 



Vostox punctipennis (Stal) 



1860. Forficula punctipennis St&l, Kongl. Svenska Freg. Eugenie's Resa, 

 Ins., p. 304. [cf ; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 1 cf . 



Stal's punctipennis has been placed under V . hrunneipennis (Ser- 

 ville) by Burr. The specimen before us represents a species very 

 close to hrunneipennis but readily distinguished by a number of 

 features. Though Stal's description of punctipennis does not give 

 the most important of these, we believe that the species represented 

 by the specimen at hand is the same, and in consequence we restore 

 the name punctipennis. 



Compared with material of hrunneipennis from the United States, 

 the present male is seen to differ in the following respects. Cheek 

 much shorter, two-fifths instead of two-thirds as long as eye. Ex- 

 posed portion of wings about half as long as tegmen, instead of 

 distinctly less than half that length. Pygidium with marginal 

 flange narrower, lateral points more acute and distal truncation 

 narrower. Median and caudal femora and tibiae heavily suffused 

 with brown mesad. 



Length of body 8.3, length of pronotum 1.7, caudal width of pro- 

 notum 1.6, length of tegmen 2.9, length of exposed portion of wing 

 1.5, length of forceps 3.8 mm. 



^As elsewhere in this paper, the boily h^ngtb given does not include the length 

 •of the forceps. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 343 



Spongovostox berlandi* new species (Plate XIII, figure 4.) 



This species bears Vostox hrunneipennis (Serville) a general super- 

 ficial resemblance. The males at hand are, however, readily dis- 

 tinguished by the cheeks, which are longer than the eyes; the teg- 

 mina, which are keeled; the femora, which are suffused proximad; 

 the pygidium of generally similar form but more declivent, with 

 disto-lateral oblique margins much more transverse and not at all 

 emarginate, and forceps, which show a greater inward curvature 

 distad and have the larger tooth of the internal margin proximad, 

 not at the end of the proximal third. 



Type: d^; Guatemala City, Guatemala. [Paris Museum.] 

 Size medium for the genus, form weakly depressed. Head show- 

 ing a moderate depression from eyes to median point of caudal 

 margin, occipital lobes prominent, so that cheeks are longer than 

 eyes and caudal margin of occiput broadly angulate emarginate, 

 sutures obsolete. Antennae with first joint moderately large, 

 broadening so that the distal two-thirds are the more ample; second 

 joint minute; third nearly as long as first, but much more slender; 

 fom'th half as long as third, slightly longer than greatest width; 

 fifth intermediate in length between third and fourth; sixth as 

 long as third. Pronotum very slightly longer than caudal width, 

 smooth, showing a very weak medio-longitudinal linear sulcus, 

 lateral and caudal margins showing a very slight convexity, the for- 

 mer showing a very feeble convergence cephalad; prozona tumid, 

 metazona weakly concave proximo-laterad and very feebly convex 

 mesad, elsewhere deplanate. Tegmina smooth, with a very fine 

 but distinct and percurrent keel along the external margin of the 

 dorsal surface, transverse truncate caudad. Wings fully developed, 

 exposed portion about two-fifths as long as tegmen. Abdomen 

 with dorsal surface polished but microscopically punctulate, fourth 

 and fifth tergites showing laterad a weak rounded carina, these 

 tergites there slightly produced caudad. Ultimate tergite very 

 weakly depressed meso-caudad, caudal margin almost evenly trans- 

 verse. Pygidium very strongly declivent, with surface in a broad 

 triangular dorsal area deplanate, thence convex; lateral margins 

 fitting forceps tightly, latero-caudal margins very strongly conver- 

 gent, almost transverse to a broad, weakly produced median portion 

 which is truncate. Forceps elongate, showing a very feeble curva- 



^We take pleasure in naming this interesting species in honor of Monsieur 

 Lucien^Berland, Curator of Insects of the Museum National d'histoire Naturelle, 

 Paris. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



ture, which is stronger toward their incurved apices, with a few 

 irregular blunt denticulations proximad on the internal surface 

 particularly along the ventral margin, of which that on the ventral 

 margin opposite the apex of the pygidium is the largest. Penulti- 

 mate sternite simple, its caudal margin transverse, showing a sub- 

 obsolete concavity. Caudal metatarsus with ventral surface well 

 supplied with hairs and with an internal fringe of lamellae, second 

 joint very short. 



Length of body^ 8. and 7.8, width of head, 1.6 and 1.6, length of 

 pronotum 1.7 and 1.7, width of abdomen 2.3 and 2.3, length of for- 

 ceps 3.3 and 3.4 mm. 



Coloration. Entire insect glabrous. Head and pronotum dark 

 chestnut brown, the pronotum laterad becoming chestnut brown, 

 mouthparts and proximal antennal joints ochraceous-tawny, the 

 antennae thence cinnamon-brown. Tegmina chestnut brown. Ex- 

 posed portions of wings warm buff, except distad and along sutural 

 margins where they are chestnut brown. Abdomen dark chestnut 

 brown. Forceps proximad and distad russet, becoming very dark 

 mesad. In the paratype the russet invades the ultimate tergite. 

 Limbs honey yellow, the femora suffused with prouts brown proxi- 

 mad. 



In addition to the type, a paratypic male bearing the same data 

 is before us. 



Spongovostox asemus^ new species (Plate XIII, figure 5). 



This species is in many respects a smaller replica of S. herlandi 

 here described. From that species it is readily distinguished by 

 the tegmina which are not keeled, the more slender abdomen and 

 distinctive male pygidium and forceps which latter have a heavier 

 denticulation of the internal surface with a more conspicuous proxi- 

 mal tooth. 



The form of the pygidium agrees closely with that figured by Burr 

 as of Spongovostox ghilianii Dohrn var.* 



We beUeve that the material examined by Burr represents one or 

 more distinct species. Burr's characterization does not agree with 

 the original description of ghilianii ("pygidium (^ longe productum, 

 postice rotundatim") and his type designation "Venezuela (Mor- 

 itz, Typus von Dohrn) " consequently does not hold. As part at 



^ The measurements of the type are given first. 



' From aar^jxo? = insignificant. 



«Ann. k. k. Naturhist. Hofmus. Wien. XXVI, p. 335, fig. 9, (1912). 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



least of the material which was before Burr may represent the 

 present species, we feel it advisable to fix the name ghilianii. We 

 do so, therefore, by selecting the type locality of Labia ghilianii 

 Dohrn as Para, Brazil. The material which Dohrn had from 

 that locality was collected by Ghiliani and it is reasonable to suppose 

 was that actually used in describing the species named in honor 

 of that collector. 



The heavier structure and broad head and pronotum distinguish 

 this insect from the species Microvostox, in addition to its having a 

 more deplanate head with evident sutures. 



Type: cf ; San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina. [Paris Museum.] 



Size small for the genus, form moderately depressed. Head very 

 weakly depressed in area bounding the very weakly defined occipital 

 lobes, cheeks longer than eyes, caudal margin of occiput almost 

 evenly transverse, sutures very fine but distinct. Antennae with 

 first joint more elongate and slender than in herlandi, broadening so 

 that the distal half is somewhat the more ample; second joint 

 minute; third three-quarters as long as first, slender, cylindrical; 

 fourth joint slightly over half as long as third, slightly longer than 

 greatest width; fifth joint intermediate in length between third 

 and fourth; sixth joint as long as third. Pronotum smooth, show- 

 ing a very weak medio-longitudinal sulcus, length equal to width, 

 lateral margins almost straight, parallel, caudal margin showing a 

 very slight convexity; prozona tumid, metazona almost deplanate, 

 showing a very feeble convexity meso-proximad. Tegmina smooth, 

 without trace of keel, truncate caudad. Wings fully developed, 

 exposed portion about half as long as tegmen. Abdomen as in 

 herlandi except that it is more slender. Ultimate tergite rather 

 heavily punctulate except in meso-proximal section, with a weak 

 medio-longitudinal depression, caudal margin almost evenly trans- 

 verse. Pygidium strongly declivent, dorsal surface tapering with 

 a strong convexity to apex, which is briefly produced and truncate. 

 Forceps much as in herlandi except that the denticulations of the 

 internal surface are heavier both dorsad and ventrad, extending to 

 distal portion, with proximal tooth median in vertical position and 

 projecting as a small quadrate process, higher than wide, above 

 the pygidial apex on each side. Penultimate sternite with lateral 

 portions of caudal margin convex, these forming mesad a rounded 

 obtuse-angulate emargination. 



Length of body 7.5, width of head 1.1, length of pronotum 1, 

 greatest width of abdomen 1.7, length of forceps 2.6 mm. 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Coloration. Entire insect glabrous. Head mummy brown, 

 mouthparts and proximal antennal joints dresden brown, the an- 

 tennae deepening to prouts brown. Pronotum mummy brown 

 shading to buffy eaudad, lateral portions buffy. Tegmina mummy 

 brown, paler toward the external margins. Exposed portions of 

 wings broadly suffused with mummy brown along sutural margin 

 and distad, narrowly suffused with the same color along distal 

 portion of costal margin, remaining portions buffy. Abdomen 

 cinnamon brown, deepening to dark chestnut brown proximo-laterad 

 on proximal portions of tergites, the ultimate tergite entirely of this 

 color. Pygidium and forceps dark chestnut brown, the latter paling 

 to dresden brown in proximal portion. Limbs suffused buffy. 



The type is unique. 



Microvostox parvus (Biirr) 



1912. Spongovostox parvus Burr, Ann. k. k. Naturhist. Hofmus. Wien, 

 XXVI, p. 336, fig. 12. [cf : Tapanokoni, Dutch Guiana (tj^e); George- 

 town, British Guiana.] 



Cartago, Costa Rica, 1600 meters, (C. Picado), 1 cf . 



The present specimen agrees fully with Burr's figure and very 

 short analysis except in size.^ Length of body 5.3, length of prono- 

 tum, .6, caudal width of pronotum .7, length of tegmen L2, length 

 of exposed portion of wing, .6, length of forceps L8 mm. 



It belongs to the same species group as hilineatus (Scudder) and 

 pygmaeus (Dohrn), differing from the genotype, alter (Bm-r), and 

 other forms of that species group, in the more flattened head, which 

 shows a closer approach to the type developed in the genus Spongo- 

 vostox. 



Microvostox chopardi'" new species (Plate XIII, figures 6 and 7.) 



This species is apparently closely related to Borman's Spongi- 

 phora similis.^^ Compared with the original description of the male 

 of that species, the male before us is found to differ in the smaller 

 size, broader pale coloration of the lateral and caudal margins of the 

 pronotum, longer exposed portion of wings, entirely blackish limbs 



^ The type is given as 3.5 mm. long, the forceps 1.5 mm. It is poss-ble that 

 when comparison with the type of parvus can be made, the specimen here re- 

 corded may prove to be specifically distinct. 



^" We take great pleasure in naming this handsome little species in honor of 

 our distinguished friend Monsieur Lucien Chopard, whose excellent contributions 

 to the literature treating of Orthoptera are a constant source of pleasure to us. 



1^ Though that species has been referred by Burr to the genus Vostox, we 

 believe that examination of the type will show it to be a member of our sub- 

 sequently described genus Microvostox. 




1920,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



and in the pygidium and forceps which, though of very similar 

 general structure, show important differences. The former being 

 merely subconical mesad in the convex area, the latter in having 

 the internal margins entirely unarmed distad. 



Type: cf ; Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana. August. [Paris 

 Museum.] 



Size medium, form moderately broad, for this genus which in- 

 cludes very small species. Head depressed and showing weak but 

 distinct depressions which run from .the eyes toward the middle of 

 the caudal margin of the occiput, cheek one and one-half times as 

 long as eye, caudal margin of occiput showing very broad and weak 

 concavity, sutures obsolete. Antennae with first joint twice as 

 long as distal width, other joints missing. Pronotum with length 

 equal to width, very slightly broader cephalad than caudad, showing 

 a weak medio-longitudinal sulcus and on the prozona a lateral 

 sulcus on each side; lateral margins very broadly convex and very 

 weakly convergent caudad, rounding broadly into the very broadly 

 convex caudal margin. Tegmina slightly over twice as long as 

 broad, caudal margin transverse. Wings fully developed, exposed 

 portion nearly half as long as tegmen. Abdomen with dorsal sur- 

 face poUshed and punctulate laterad except ultimate tergite which 

 is smooth, shows a very feeble median depression and has its caudal 

 margin transverse. Pygidium moderately declivent, surface con- 

 vex becoming subconical mesad with a minute medio-longitudinal 

 carina running down the caudal face of this production, lateral mar- 

 gins weakly convex, with a minute tubercle on each side just beyond 

 the median point where these margins no longer touch the forceps, 

 distal margin transverse, as broad as basal margin, with a small 

 rounded tooth at each disto-lateral angle. Forceps straight, slightly 

 divergent and weakly tapering in proximal half, with a few micro- 

 scopic tuberculations on the internal face opposite the pygidium, 

 inbent at end of proximal half, the distal half more slender but gently 

 swollen meso-distad, almost straight to the slightly incurved apices 

 and wholly unarmed. Penultimate sternite and tarsi wholly con- 

 cealed by mounting slip. 



Length of body 5.2, greatest width of head (across eyes) .9, length 

 of pronotum .75, greatest width of abdomen 1.5, length of forceps 

 1.3 mm. 



Head dull black, proximal antennal joints dresden brown. Pro- 

 notum shining blackish brown, broadly margined laterad and caudad 

 with translucent whitish. Tegmina shining blackish brown, show- 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



ing a longitudinal buffy tinge on the shoulders. Exposed portion 

 of wings shining, blackish brown toward sutural margin, remaining 

 half warm buff. Dorsal surface of abdomen shining blackish, show- 

 ing a rich chestnut tinge mesad. Forceps shining blackish brown 

 with a rich chestnut tinge. Limbs shining blackish brown. 

 The type of this remarkable species is unique. 



Microvostox ghilianii Dohrn. 



1864. L[abia] ghilianii Dohrn, Stett. Ent. Zeit., XXV, p. 424. [cf , 9 : 

 Para,i2 (Brazil); Cayenne, (French Guiana); Venezuela.] 



Charvien, lower Maroni River, French Guiana, V, 1 d^. 



From examination of this specimen, which appears to agree fully 

 with the description of ghilianii, we find M. schwarzi (Caudell) to 

 be a very closely related species, differing only in its decidedly 

 broader form. As a result the pronotum of the present species is 

 distinctly smaller in proportion to its body length, while the tegminal 

 width is contained in the tegminal length three times. In males of 

 schwarzi the tegminal width is contained in the tegminal length 

 about two and one-half times. The male genitalia in these species 

 show no diagnostic differences whatever. 



These species, as well as the genotype, M. alter (Burr), belong to 

 a species group having the head more strongly and evenly convex, 

 strongly suggesting the type usually encountered in the genus Labia. 



LABIINAE. 



Labia arcuata Scudder. 



1876. Labia arcuata Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, p. 257. 

 [cf ; Vassouras, one hundred miles north of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, III, 1 cf . St. Laurent du 

 Maroni, French Guiana, XII, 1 cf, 1 9. 



Labia dorsalis (Burmeister) 



1838. F[orficula] dorsalis Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, abth. II, pt. I, p. 

 754. [Colombia.] 



Guadeloupe, West Indies, Id". St. Jean du Maroni, French 

 Guiana, V, 2 cf, 2 9. St. Laurent du Maroni, French Guiana, I 

 and XII, 2 cf,2 9. 



Prolabia unidentata (Beauvois) « 



1805. Forficula unidentata Beauvois, Ins. Recueil. Afr. Amer., p. 165, pi. 

 XIV, fig. 3. [San Domingo.] 



Port au Prince, Haiti, 1 cf . San Jaun, Porto Rico, 1 9 • 



12 Selected as the type locality on page 345, under the discussion of Spongo- 

 vostox asemus new species. It would appear very probable, from the literature 

 and Burr's figure, that the material recorded by Dohrn represented more than 

 one species. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



SPARATTINAE. 



Sparatta semirufa Kirby (Plate XllI, figure 8.) 



1896. Sparatta semirufa Kirby, Jn. Linn. Soc. London, Zool., XXV, p. 

 528, pi. XX, figs. 4 and 4a. [ [cf]; Igaurassu, near Pernambuco, Brazil.] 



French Guiana, 1 cf. St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 1 9. 

 St. Laurent du Maroni, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



These specimens agree closely and are clearly conspecific with the 

 specimen from Para, Brazil, referred tentatively to semirufa by Rehn. 

 Kirby's descriptions of species of this genus are thoroughly unsatis- 

 factory as to sex^3 and details of genitalia, hence determinations can 

 not be made with full satisfaction until the material from which 

 that author described semirufa has been studied. Kirby's figures 

 agree fully with the females before us, the genitalia of the male at 

 hand are here figured. 



All of the specimens we have seen are apparently paler than 

 Kirby's material. In these the pronotum, limbs, proximal portion 

 of tegmina and proximal portion of abdomen are immaculate ochra- 

 ceous buff, the head and antennae tinged with rosy. 



Parasparatta guyanensis new species (Plate XIII, figures 9 and 18). 



This species is related to the Mexican P. dentifera (Rehn) and the 

 Brazilian and Paraguayan P. nigrina (Stal).'* With the former it 

 agrees in abdominal coloration and form of male pygidium, with 

 the latter in antennal and limb coloration. 



The male forceps bear two teeth on each branch, as do those of 

 nigrina, but the position of these teeth is not the same, being more 

 nearly that of the two more distal teeth in dentifera. 



In the female, unlike in females of dentifera, the pygidium has the 

 ventral lamellate area completely visible from above, while the for- 

 ceps lack a proximo-internal lamellation. 



Type: cf ; St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana. April and May. 

 [Paris Museum.] 



Size and form as in dentifera. Head greatly depressed, conven- 

 tional heart-shaped, the caudal margin rather strongly concave; 

 eyes very small, sutm-es obsolete. Antennae with first joint nearly 

 four times as long as broad; second joint minute; third joint slightly 



" Either Kirby mistook a female for a male when describing semirufa, or the 

 material before us represents a distinct species. We do not believe the latter 

 to be true. 



" See Borelli's excellent comparison of these species in Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. 

 comp. Univ. Torino, XXX, No. 699, p. 3, (1915). Also discussion by Hebard, 

 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLIII, p. 420, (1917). 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



over half as long as first; joints immediately succeeding increasing 

 strongly in length distad. Pronotum as typical of genus, flattened, 

 longer than broad, briefly produced cephalad to form a collar which 

 is delimited by a delicate transverse sulcus, this produced area not 

 as long as in Sparatta, with lateral margins very feebly convex and 

 nearly parallel and caudal margin moderately convex. Tegmina 

 and wings fully developed, thickly supplied with minute hairs. 

 Dorsal surface of abdomen similarly hairy, except ultimate tergite 

 which is smooth dorsad and has a U-shaped impressed line. Pygid- 

 ium as in dentifera, a produced shaft, three times as long as basal 

 width, with dorsal surface convex, the lateral margins weakly con- 

 vex, so that it is narrowest meso-proximad, the disto-lateral angles 

 produced in acute points, the distal portion between these produced 

 caudad in a square median lamella. Forceps hairy, with shaft al- 

 most straight to distal third where it curves evenly and rather 

 weakly inward to the flattened acute apex; internal surface concave 

 in slightly over proximal two-fifths, the ventral margin there supplied 

 with minute and irregular denticulations terminated by a large tooth 

 directed meso-caudad, armed at end of proximal four-fifths with 

 another similar tooth which, however, is dorsal in vertical position 

 and is directed mesad. Penultimate ventral sternite with caudal 

 margin weakly bilobate. Caudal metatarsus as long as third tarsal 

 joint, supplied ventrad with an external row of widely spaced min- 

 ute spines and an internal very close fringe of spinuliform hairs. 

 Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Paris Museum.] 

 Agrees closely with male except in the following features. Ulti- 

 mate abdominal tergite longer, its median length equal to its caudal 

 width. Pygidium small, with dorsal surface convex and very 

 strongly declivent, the distal (caudal) portion produced in a lamella 

 shorter than wide, the lateral margins of this lamella straight and 

 divergent in brief proximal portion, thence concave and showing 

 no divergence to the apices, caudal margin straight mesad, convex 

 to the acute apices laterad; these margins resultantly forming a 

 minute proximal denticulation on each side and two large, slightly 

 recurved horns at the disto-lateral extremities. 



Head (except mouthparts), pronotum, tegmina, exposed portions 

 of wings and dorsal surface of abdomen (except ultimate tergite) 

 blackish, shining, showing a very slight brown tinge. Mouthparts 

 dresden brown. Antennae entirely blackish brown. Ultimate 

 tergite of abdomen tawny (ochraceous-tawny in recessive speci- 

 mens), shining, the dorsal surface of the abdomen having, in some 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



specimens, the preceding distal tergites tinged with tawny distad 

 as well. Pygidium and forceps mars brown. In one recessive 

 example with pygidium light ochraceous-tawny and forceps mars 

 brown, in another with pygidium and forceps ochraceous-tawny. 

 Limbs in intensi\e specimens blackish mummy brown, paling slightly 

 to prouts brown distad. In the majority of examples the femora 

 and tibiae are mummy brown paling to dresden brown distad, the 

 tarsi dresden brown. 



Measurements (in jnillimeiers) 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Length of 

 body pronotum pronotum tegmen forceps 



St. .Jean du Maroni. Type..S. 1.2 .9 1.8 2.9 



Charvien. Paratype 7.8 1.25 .9 1.8 3. 



Nouveau Chantier. Para- 

 type 7.9 1.25 .9 1.8 3.2 



9 



St. Jean du Maroni. Allo- 

 type 8.1 1.2 .95 1.8 2.7 



Charvien. Paratype 8.3 1.3 1. 1.8 2.8 



Nouveau Chantier. Para- 

 type 7.2 1.2 .9 1.8 2.9 



Coloration is apparently of considerable specific diagnostic value 

 in this and alhed species, but can not safely be used without full 

 consideration of the structural details, a frequent fault in past 

 literature. 



In addition to the described pair, we ha"ve before us eight para- 

 types from French Guiana. Of these one pair are from Nouveau 

 Chantier, taken in May; one pair from Charvien, taken in October 

 and November, the other four females without additional data. 



Parasparatta dentifera (Betan) 



1901. Sparatta dentifera Rehn, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 218. 

 [ 9 ; Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mexico.] 



Guatemala City, Guatemala, 2 9 . 



One of these specimens is smaller than the other, with special- 

 ization of the forceps less decided. Such variation is frequently 

 encountered in this and allied species. 



FORFICULIDAE. 



FORFICULINAE. 



Skalistes lugubris (Dohrn) 



1862. Forficula lugubris Dohrn, Stett. Ent. Zeit., XXIII, p. 230. [Cor- 

 doba, (Vera Cruz) Mexico.] 



Sierra de Tlalpujahua, near Toluca, Mexico, Mexico, 2400 to 2700 

 meters, 1 cf, 1 juv. Vicinity of Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico, XI, 1 9 . 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Skalistes inopinata (Burr) 



1900. Ancistrogaster inopinata Burr, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (7), VI, p. 

 85. [cf , 9 ; Costa Rica.] 



Antigua, Department of Saeatepequez, Guatemala, 1400 meters, 



1 cf, 1 9. 



The length of the forceps in the present male is 3.7 mm. 



Though inopinata has been referred by Burr to synonymy under 

 S. luguhns (Dohrn), we beheve it to be a very distinct species. 

 We have not as yet seen Mexican material referable to S. cornuta 

 (Burr), which name may prove a synonym of inopinata. 



Doru lineare (Eschscholtz) 



1822. Forficula linearis Escholtz, Entomogr., p. 81. [Santa Catharina, 

 BrazU.] 



Huejotitlan, Jalisco, Mexico, 1700 meters, VI, VII and XI, 3 cf , 

 1 9 . Guatemala City, Guatemala, 2 cf , 2 9 . Curityba, Parana, 

 Brazil, 2 9 . Gran Chaco, Argentina, 2 9 . Villa Lutecia, near 

 San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, I to IV, 2 cf, 5 9 . Icafio, San- 

 tiago del Estero, Argentina, XII, 5 cf, 6 9 . 



Two of the females from Villa Lutecia lack apparent wings. 

 These specimens have the pronotum slightly larger, but in other 

 respects agree perfectly with the other females of the series. 



NEOLOBOPHORINAE . 



Neolobophora ruficeps (Burmeister) 



1838. F{orficula\ ruficeps Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, abth. II, pt. I, p. 

 755. [Mexico.] 



Antigua, Department of Saeatepequez, Guatemala, 1400 meters, 

 19.' 

 This specimen has the tegmina impresso-punctate.'^ 



OPISTHOCOSMIINAE. 



Neocosmiella atrata Hebard. 



1919. Neocosmiella atrata Hebard, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLV, p. 96, pi. 

 XVI, fig. 4. [cf: Pamplona, Santander, Colombia.] 



Pamplona, Santander, Colombia, 1 cf . 



The specimen here recorded agrees fully with the type of this 

 interesting species. 



" See discussion by Hebard, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLIII, p. 424, (1917). 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA.. 1920 



PLATE XIII 



HEBARD: AMERICAN DERMAPTERA. 





1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Explanation to Plate XIII. 



Fig. 1. — Purex formosus new species, cf, type. Gourdonville, French Guiana. 

 Dorsal view of ultimate tergite, pygidium and forceps. (X 7J^). 



Fig. 2. — Pitrex formosus new species, cf, type. Gourdonville, French Guiana. 

 Dorsal view of pygidium. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 3. — Vo.stox hrunneipennis (Serville). d^. Arcadia, Louisiana. Dorsal 

 view of pygidium. (Greatly enlarged.) (For comparison with figures 2 

 and 4.) 



Fig. 4. — Spongovostox herlandi new species, cf , type. Guatemala City, Guate- 

 mala. Dorsal view of pygidium. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 5. — Spongovostox asemus new species, cf, type. San Ignacio, Misiones, 

 Argentina. Dorsal view of ultimate tergite, pygidium and forceps. (X 



12H). 

 Fig. 6. — Microvostox chopardi new species, cf, type. Nouveau Chantier, 



French Guiana. Dorsal view. (X 8^/^). 

 Fig. 7. — Microvostox chopardi new species. cT, type. Nouveau Chantier, 



French Guiana. Dorsal view of pygidium. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 8. — Sparatta semirvfa Kirby. cf. St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana. 



Dorsal view of ultimate tergite, pygidium and forceps. (X 7J^). 

 Fig. 9. — Parasparatta guyanensis new species, cf , type. St. Jean du Maroni, 



French Guiana. Dorsal view of ultimate tergite, pygidium and forceps. 



(X 103^). 

 y^ Fig. 10. — Parasparatta guyanensis new species. 9 , allotype. St. Jean du 



Maroni, French Guiana. Dorsal view of ultimate tergite, pygidium and 



forceps. (X 10 H)- 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



ORDOVICIAN BASALTS AND QUARTZ DIABASES IN LEBANON COUNTY, 



PENNSYLVANIA' 



SAMUEL G. GORDON. 



As no Paleozoic volcanic rocks have hitherto been discovered in 

 Pennsylvania, the occurrence of an Ordovician basalt flow in Leb- 

 anon County is of interest, especially in view of the fact that deep 

 seated intrusives occur in the Octoraro schists of similar age to the 

 southeast. 2 



The basalts and quartz diabases described below occur in the 

 Lebanon quadrangle, just, south of the Swatara Creek, between 

 Jonestown and Lebanon (see Fig. 1). The area is underlain by a 

 thick series of Martinsburg shales, whose outcrop has been con- 

 siderably extended in width by folding and faulting. Intrusive in 

 it are sills and dikes of quartz diabase, to the northwest of which 

 lie the interbedded basalt flows. 



Martinsburg Formation. The Martinsburg formation consists of 

 a thick series of gray, greenish, and reddish shales, with interbedded 

 sandstones, and thin beds of dolomite,^ — ^the last notably in the 

 vicinity of the Swatara. A white sandstone is exposed on the 

 Bunker Hills. Slaty cleavage has been developed in the shales. 

 The formation has been overturned, dipping steeply toward the 

 southeast throughout this area. 



In the vicinity of the intrusive diabases, the shales have been 

 metamorphosed to dense dark grayish, greenish, or reddish rocks 

 containing veins of epidote or vesuvianite. Such rocks are well 

 exposed just south of the Swatara, 2 miles southeast of Jonestown, 

 and one half mile east of Bunker Hill Station in a cut on the Jones- 

 town-Lebanon road. Under the microscope the rocks are seen to 

 be aggregates of orthoclase, tremolite, epidote, vesuvianite, chlorite, 

 quartz, and rounded zircons. 



^ The district was visited during the latter part of August, 1920. The writer 

 is indebted to Mr. Frank J. Keeley for the privilege of examining his sections of 

 other Pennsylvania diabases, and to Dr. Edgar T. Wherry for a critical exami- 

 nation of this paper. 



^ Basic breccia (ouachitite) and dikes of nepheline syenite, leucite tinquaite, 

 and camptonite of Post-ordovician age occur in the northwestern corner of the 

 FrankUn Furnace quadrangle, New Jersey. U. S. G. S. Franklin Furnace 

 Folio, 162, 1908. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



355 



Quartz Diabase. The quartz diabases form minor wooded ridges, 

 rising above the country occupied by the softer shales in which they 

 occur as sills and dikes. The exposures consist chiefly of enormous 

 boulders, many of which have travelled slowly down the hillsides, 

 and have been collected from the fields by the farmers to form stone 



o ^ 



"3 



i I 





M 



U 



n 



60 



u 



3 

 C 



a 



> 



a 

 a 

 <v 



Pi 



s 



3 

 o 

 O 



c 

 o 



1-i 



OS 



<v 



03 

 C3 



Q 



a 



c3 



> 

 O 





fences. When the need for road metal arose, these rocks, locally 

 known as " u*on-stone, " have been crushed. 



The quartz diabase (Fig, 2.) is typically a fine-grained, dark 

 greenish black or mottled black and gray rock, which may become 




356 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Fig. 2. — Quartz diabase, three miles northwest of Lebanon. (SHde 1, X 15). 



Structure ophitic; latbs of labradorite, euhedral augite, with interstitial 



graphic intergrowths of quartz and orthoclase. 

 Fig. 3. — Edge of fragment of basalt in glass, separated by a vein of calcite. One 



mile southwest of Jonestown. (Slide 19, X 15). 

 Fig. 4. — Basalt glass, amygdaloidal ; one mile southwest of Jonestown. (Slide 



20, X 25). Shows perlitic structure in the glass, and a calcite amygdule 



(white). 

 Fig. 5. — Ainygdule of quartz in basalt; one mile southeast of Jonestown. (Slide 



,27, X 25). 

 All in ordinary light. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



quite fine-grained at the contacts. Three miles northwest of Leb- 

 anon, the quartz diabase is porphyritic, with black augite pheno- 

 erysts up to 1 cm. in length, in labradorite. 



The textm-e is diabasic or ophitic. The labradorite is quite 

 zoisitized, and the associated augite is more or less altered to chlor- 

 ite, all stages of the alteration from incipient changes along cleavage 

 cracks to complete chloritized individuals being shown in thin 

 section. Graphic intergrowths of quartz and orthoclase form inter- 

 stitial aggregates. Magnetite and p3a-ite are the principal accessory 

 minerals, the latter being recognizable in most hand specimens. 



Basalt. The basalts are exposed along the Swatara Creek, on the 

 north slope of Bunker Hill, along the railroad cut one half mile north 

 of Bunker Hill Station, and in the road cut one half mile east of 

 Bunker Hill Station. 



The rock is chiefly a brecciated or tuffaceous amygdaloidal bas- 

 altic glass, indicating that the flow occurred under water on the 

 floor of the Ordovician sea. The brecciated character is well shown 

 on weathering, which also causes the rock to assume a vesicular 

 appearance due to the weathering out of the calcite amygdules. 



Freshly broken specimens show angular fragments of dense black 

 glass in an aggregate of greenish glass and calcite amygdules. On 

 weathering the rock becomes dark yellow. The most typical basalt 

 occurs two miles southeast of Jonestown, where it forms a dense 

 crystalline rock, with amygules of calcite, or more rarely, of quartz. 



Under the microscope, the basalt breccia (Figs. 3-5) is seen to 

 be composed of greenish glass (n < 1.60) showing perlitic structure, 

 which exhibits strain effects or incipient crystallization under crossed 

 nicols. The glass is filled with inclusions, and larger fragments of 

 crystalline basalt, consisting of aggregates of plagioclase laths and 

 augite in a dark glassy gi'oundmass, similar to the crystalline basalt, 

 two miles southeast of Jonestown. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



ADDITIONAL NOTES ON THE DEAL METEORITE. 

 BY F. J. KEELEY. 



In the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, 1830, Volume VI, page 182, Mr. Robert Vaux and 

 Dr. Thos. M'Euen described the fall of a small stone meteorite at 

 Deal, Monmouth County, New Jersey, August 14, 1829, 11.30 P. M., 

 a portion of which they presented to the Academy. 



In 1851, Shepard, who had received part of this specimen from 

 the Curators of the Academy, published some further information, 

 including a determination of its specific gravity, which he reported 

 as 3.25 to 3.30. 



At the present time, but thirty grams of this meteorite is known 

 to be in existance, hence, sufficient material for adequate investi- 

 gation is not available without too greatly impairing the specimens, 

 but it seems desirable that at least some additional description be 

 recorded. 



The Academy's specimen, which weighs 20.8 grams, and there- 

 fore constitutes over two thirds of the known material, consists of 

 one end of a stone that may have been originally three times as 

 large. Its length is about 35 mm., width 25 mm. and thickness 15 

 mm. and on more than half of it, the original surface is preserved, 

 rounded and pitted by fusion, and covered with a dull black crust 

 averaging .3 mm. in thickness. 



The broken surface, of about 30 mm. by 25 mm., when examined 

 with the microscope, is extremely fine and uniformly grained and of 

 pale pearl gi-ay color, penetrated by a few narrow black veins which 

 are continuous with the crust and branch and anastomose. Scattered 

 through the mass are innumerable minute grains of metal and sul- 

 phide, the largest of the former not exceeding 1 mm. and few being 

 over .2 mm., while the grains of sulphide average even smaller with 

 no tendency to form larger nodules. There are also a few small 

 black particles and a slight rusty tint is visible over much of the 

 surface but no exudations of molysite to indicate the presence of 

 lawrencite. A careful study of the entire broken surface under a 

 binocular compound microscope with magnification of about 40, 

 failed to reveal a single chondrule or larger crystaUine mass, but near 

 one end there is a spherical depression about 1.5 mm. in diameter 

 which looks as if it might have been the matrix of a chondrule. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Unless this very slight character is accepted as sufficient, there is 

 nothing visible on the specimen to justify classing it as a chondrite. 

 On the broken face was a partly separated spall, a few millimeters 

 in diameter, which was removed, and from it a rather unsatisfactory 

 section prepared for microscopical examination. This section, 

 which would have been entirely too small to represent the meteorite 

 generally, had not the preliminary examination demonstrated a 

 remarkable degree of uniformity throughout the stone, shows a fine 

 granular texture made up of minute angular fragments of enstatite 

 and olivine, mostly too small for satisfactory determination. There 

 are two or three individuals inthesection which exceed .5mm in length, 

 but many less than .1 mm. A portion of one of the veins passes 

 through the section. It is black and opaque, and about .02 mm. 

 thick throughout most of its length, with several lenticular thicken- 

 ings, which generally include grains of metal and sulphides. Num- 

 erous small grains of metal are likewise scattered among the silicates, 

 together with even more plentiful, but smaller, grains of troilite or 

 pyrrhotite. A few opaque black grains, with some' indications of 

 crystal faces, are probably chromite. 



The most interesting feature exhibited by the section, is the 

 presence of not inconsiderable quantities of a glassy transparent 

 substance that may be identified as maskelynite, resembling in all 

 respects that of Alfianello. This mineral, which has a refractive 

 index so close to that of balsam that the ground surfaces appear as 

 if perfectly polished, generally occupies irregular spaces between 

 the magnesian silicates and sometimes holds small grains of the 

 latter as inclusions, but in one case takes the form of a nearly cir- 

 cular grain suggesting a rounded crystal, with its interior clouded 

 with numerous small inclusions. When examined in ordinary light 

 under high powers, using good objectives and carefully adjusted 

 illumination, there occasionally appear in it systems of fine parallel 

 lamina, sometimes intersecting. On applying polarized light, such 

 spaces generally show faint double refraction, somewhat similar to 

 that of leucite. Not the comparatively strong double refraction of 

 large leucite crystals, but more closely resembling that of the small 

 crystals in fine grained Vesuvian lavas, which likewise sometimes 

 show similar parallel laminations with ordinary light. These lami- 

 nations might be interpreted as indicating incipient polysynthetic 

 twinning in a feldspathic material, but the resemblance shown by 

 all the characters of maskelynite to those of leucite, seems to furnish 

 some justification for Groth's opinion that the two minerals are 

 closely related. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV,, 



MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAW AH— XIV, XV. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Part of the Hawaiian tectibranch mollusks were considered in 

 part II of this series. ^ Others were found in the Bryan and Thaa- 

 num collections, and in material taken in 1913. Probably further 

 additions can be made when material collected this year is assorted; 

 but as the following revision has already been held some time 

 awaiting the preparation of illustrations, it is thought best to publish 

 at this time. 



Very little is known of the ecology of Hawaiian Tectibranchs. 

 Collectors of living specimens should note their stations and such 

 conditions as can be observed. 



Little additional information has come to hand on the Aplysioid 

 and Notaspidian Tectibranchs since the publication of Manual of 

 Conchology, Vol. XVI, in which the known species are described. 



Key to Hawaiian genera of cephalaspidian Tectibranchs. 



1. Shell an open, flat spiral, wholly concealed, the mantle concres- 



cent over it Aglaja Ren. 



Shell not covered by the mantle 2 



2. Spire exposed 3 



Spire deeply sunken or concealed 6 



3. Spire more or less conic, the apex not depressed 4 



Spire convex or level, apex not projecting above the following 



whorl Hydatinidoe. 



4. Larger shells, with a strong columellar fold or a basal truncation ; 



spiral grooves punctured when present 5 



Smaller, white shells with a weak columellar fold and without 

 punctured spiral grooves; apical whorl tilted on edge. 



Acteodna Gray. 



5. Columella having a strong, bilobed fold above, concave below; 



imperforate Pupa Bolt. 



Columella straight, with a small fold above and obliquely truncate 

 at base; shell oval, with close spiral sculpture; perforate. 



BuUina Fer. 



1 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 214. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



6. Summit narrowly, deeply umbilicate 7 



Summit imperforate or barely perforate 8 



7. Shell larger, in large part smooth, marbled with brown. 



Bulla7ia Raf. 

 Shell small, spirally sculptured throughout, often banded. 



Mnestia Ads. 



8. Axial margin above the summit folded Atys Helbl. 



Axial margin not folded above 9 



9. Columella abruptly truncate anteriorly Dinia Ads. 



Columella slightly concave, indistinctly truncate anteriorly; 



shell having incised spiral lines throughout. 



Haminoea, subg. Liloa. 

 Columella broadly, strongly concave, not truncate 10 



10. A thm, broad, spiral plate posteriorly on columella; shell green, 



shaped like a split bean Smaragdinella Ad. 



No such columellar plate; light colored 11 



11. Summit produced in a narrow spout; shell very fragile, showing 



the interior in a basal view Volvatella Pse. 



Summit not produced 12 



12. ■ Summit rather narrow, not impressed over the axis ; aperture 



very ample below Scaphander Montf. 



Summit rounded, impressed in the center . . Haminoea T. & K. 



ACTEONIDiE. 



Three species of the genus Pupa Bolt. (SoUdula F. deW.) have been 

 found. P. nitidula (Lam.), a widely dispersed species, is known 

 from the Islands by specimens in the collection of the Academy from 

 Dr. Newcomb. It has not been found by any recent collector, so 

 far as I know. It seems possible that Newcomb's shells were from 

 Polynesia. In his time many shells from the southern islands were 

 coming into Honolulu in the missionary schooner Morning Star, 

 and sold there for the benefit of missions. 



1. Nearly white; smooth save for a group of spiral grooves at the 



base; spire very short, apex mamillar; columellar fold very 

 heavy and prominent. Length 17, diameter 9 to 10 mm. 



P. nitidula (Lam.) 



Spirally grooved at summit and below middle of last whorl, or 



throughout; spire conic 2 



2. Deeply grooved spirally throughout; 9 x 4 to 11.5 x 5.1 mm. 



P. thaanumi Pils. 




362 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Grooves narrower, less deep; obsolete or weaker and more 

 widely spaced above the middle of last whorl; 13 to 14 mm. 

 long. Fossil, aromid Pearl Harbor P. pearlensis, n. sp. 



Pupa thaanumi Pils. 



Further specimens of this species confirm the characters of color 

 and sculpture, but show that it sometimes reaches a larger size; 

 and some specimens are broader with relatively shorter spire. Two 

 from Haena, Kanai, measure: 



Length 11.5, diameter 5.1 mm. 



Length 10, diameter 4.7 mm. 



Kauai: Haena. Oahu: Honolulu; Mokapu Point. 



Pupa pearlensis n. sp. Figure 1. 



The shell is similar in shape to P. thaanumi. It differs by the 

 larger size, the narrower, less deeply cut spiral grooves; above the 

 middle of the last whorl several grooves are lacking in typical speci- 

 mens; when present they are weaker and more widely spaced than 

 in thaanumi. No color is visible in the fossil specimens. 



Length 13.7, diameter 7.2 mm. Type. Near Waipahu. 



Length 14, diameter 6.8 mm. Near Aiea Station. 



Length 11.5, diameter 6 mm. Near Aiea Station. Young. 



Oahu: fossil in superficial deposits along the Oahu Railway in the 

 neighborhood of Pearl Harbor. The type lot is from the bank of a 

 taro patch on the west side of the railroad about half a mile west 

 of Waipahu Station. Also found east of Aeia Station, 6-10 feet 

 above level of the Eastern Loch (Pilsbry), and at Hoaeae (W. A. 

 Bryan). 



Fig. 1. — Pupa pearlensis, n. sp. 



Fig. 2. — Bullina scabra solida, n. subsp 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Bullina scabra solida n. subsp. Figure 2. 



Differing from B. scabra by its solidity, the lip being far thicker. 

 The fold near the upper end of the straight columella is much stronger. 

 It agrees with B. scabra in the sculpture of close, punctate, spiral 

 furrows, and in the color, two red lines dividing three zones which 

 have thin, waved axial red lines. 



Length 12.3, diameter 7.7 mm. 



Oahu: Honolulu, type locality; Kauai: Haena (Wm. A. Bryan). 



The ordinary thin form of B. scabra I have not seen from the Is- 

 lands. Even the young shells of the Hawaiian race are thick. 



Bullina vitrea Pease. 



Bullina vitrea Pse., P. Z. J. 1860, p. 19; repeated in Man. Conch. XV, p. 

 177. Sowerby, Conch. Icon. XVIII, pi. 1, fig. 4. 



Described as thin, fragile, with or without one or two gray bands 

 composed of two or three black lines, and with no axial lines. Other- 

 wise appears rather similar to B. scabra. Not yet found by modern 

 collectors. 



ACTEOCINIDAE (Tornatinidae).- 

 Acteocina sandwicensis (Pse.) 



Honolulu, Oahu; Haena, Kauai. 



Actepcina honoluluensis Pils. 



Honolulu and Haleiwa, Oahu; Lisiansky I. 



Acteocina hawaiensis Pils. 



Off Maui, near Lahaina. 



BULLARIIDAE. 

 BuUaria peaseana (Pils.) 



Bulla peaseana Pils., Man. Conch. XV, p. 348. 



This mottled species, very similar to the West Indian B. occi- 

 dentalis, is generally spread in the islands. Specimens are before 

 me from Oahu: Haleiwa, Kaneohe Bay, Kailua. Maui: Light- 

 house Point, Lahaina. Hawaii: Hilo. 



SC APHANDRID^ . 



Scaphander (Bucconia) alatus Dall, and Scaphander (Sab'atia) 

 pustulosus Dall, are from deep water, 234 to 298 fathoms, near the 

 Hawaiian Islands. 

 Smaragdinella viridis (Q. & G.) 



Oval, thin, green, with a thin, broad plate on the columella. 

 Koko Head, Oahu, collected by Wm. A. Bryan; taken also by 

 earlier collectors in the Islands, but not definitely localized. 



'For descriptions and figures of the three species enumerated, see Proc 

 A. N. S. Phila., 1917, pp. 215, 216; 1920, p 300. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Dinia compitorum n. sp. Fig\ire 3. 



The shell is white, oblong, perforate, rounded below, truncate and 

 imperforate at the summit. The surface has faint traces of spiral 

 striae, and at the base there are several distinct spirals. The Up 

 is inserted in the center above, rising but little; outer lip is quite 



Fig. 3. — Dinia compitorum n. sp. 



slightly curved, and in adults is rather strongly thickened within. 

 In profile view it recedes decidedly above, very little at the base, 

 and curves forward very slightly elsewhere. The columella pro- 

 jects obliquely towards the right and is abruptly truncate at base. 



Length 7.1, diameter 4 mm. 



Oahu: Honolulu, type locality and Haleiwa (Pilsbry, 1913); 

 Paumalu and Mokapu Point (Bryan). Maui: off Mala Bay, 

 near Lahaina in 25 to 75 feet. (Thaanum and Langford). 



Dinia has been considered a subgenus of Atys but it differs by 

 lacking a spiral fold in the lip ascending from the summit, and by 

 the very strong truncation of the columella, characters sufficient 

 for generic separation. There are now four Indo-Pacific species. 



ATYS. 



Five of the six species of Atys now known from the Islands were 

 figured in the first paper of this series, 1917, pp. 216-218. A fossil 

 (Pleistocene?) species, probably extinct, is now added. 



Key to the Hawaiian species of Atys. 



1. Columella rather thin, mainly vertical or weakly sigmoid, the 



edge but narrowly reflected {Atys proper) 2 



Columella thicker, its edge reflected, bounded by an arcuate 

 groove (Subgenus AUculastrum Pils.) 3 



2. Diameter about two-thirds of the length; rather inflated, often 



striped; 15.5 x 10 mm A. kuhnsi Pils. 



Smaller, less inflated, white A. semistriata Pse. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



3. Apical part of the lip biangulate at summit; diameter slightly 



less than half the length 4 



Lip not biangulate at summit; diameter about half the length; 

 19 X 9.5 mm A. kekele n. sp. 



4. Shell conspicuously widest below the middle... A. dehilis Pse. 

 Shell widest about the middle 5 



5. Surface axially weakly plicate; 5 x 2.3 mm A. costulosa Pse. 



Without noticeable axial sculpture; 10.6 x 4.8 mm. 



A. cornuta Pils. 



Atys semistriata Pease. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 217, fig. 5. 



The specimen in the Pease collection which I figured is larger than 

 any others seen, few of which exceed 10 mm. in length. Typically 

 it is distinctly wider below the middle, but sometimes the greatest 

 diameter is nearly median. There is also variation in the number 

 of engraved lines on the lower third, which are often less numerous, 

 perhaps always so in the immature shells. Specimens seen are 

 from Kauai: Hanalei River and Haena. Oahu: Waikiki beach, 

 Kahala and Waimanalu. Maui: Kahului dunes (Bryan). Kahoo- 

 lawe (Pilsbry). 



Atys semistriata mua n. siibsp. 



The shell is decidedly compressed near the summit which is nar- 

 rower than in the typical form. 



Honolulu (Pilsbry, 1913). 116611 A. N. S. P. 



Atys semistriata fordinsulae n. subsp. 



Greatest diameter about median; about 10 spiral grooves above 

 and below. Length 10.5, diameter 6.3 mm. Ford's Island, in 

 Pearl Harbor (W. A. Bryan). 



Atys kekele n. sp. Figiire 4. 



The shell is oblong, widest below the middle, tapering slowly 

 posteriorly to the rather narrow, angular vertex; outline towards 

 the base rather strongly convex. Near the summit there are 8 or 

 9 spiral grooves, the lower ones widely spaced. The convex base 

 has numerous finer and closer linear grooves. Vertex rather deeply 

 excavated. The aperture is very narrow in the upper half, moder- 

 ately dilated below. There is a strongly salient, compressed fold 

 in the sloping upper margin of the Up. Columella rather thick, 

 nearly straight, joining the basal margin in a short curve. Basal 

 margin retreating. 




366 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Length 19, diameter 9.5 mm. 



Length 17, diameter 8.5 mm. 



Oahu: on a taro patch embankment west of the Oahu raih'oad, 

 about a half mile west of Waipahu station, Pilsbry, 1913, Type 

 116610 A. N. S. P. 



Only found fossil in earth dug out of the taro field probably Pleis- 

 tocene. It is related to A. cylindrica (Helbl.), but in the present 

 species the upper part of the aperture is narrower, the excavation of 

 the summit deeper with angular margin; the base is more effuse, and 

 the columellar callus is more raised, the groove bounding it being 

 wider. 



Fig. 4. — Atys kekele, n. sp. 



rig. 5. — -Mnestia pusilla (Pse.) 



Mnestia pusilla (Pease). Figure 5. 



Haminea ■pusilla Pse., P. Z. S. 1860, p. 20; description repeated in Man. 

 Conch. XV, p. 364. 



This species was described by Pease in his earlier manner, Linnean 

 in brevity. It is not present in his collection in the M. C. Z., but 

 his allusions to its small size, solidity, cancellated surface and um- 

 bilicate apex apply well to a small shell which has been taken in 

 several localities. 



The shell is solid, nearly cylindric in the middle, contracting 

 rather abruptly towards the ends. It is whitish with an ill-defined 

 white band near the: base, some indistinct brownish markings above 

 it. The surface has strongly impressed spiral lines throughout, the 

 intervals cut by much finer, shallower, close axial impressed lines, 

 hardly visible except imder the microscope. The aperture is very 

 narrow in the upper two-thirds, but dilated somewhat below. The 

 outer lip rises well above the vertex, which is narrowly, deeply um- 

 bilicate; outer margin rather straightened. Columella nearly 

 straight and having a very slight fold. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Length 5, diameter 2.4 mm., largest specimen. 



Oahu: Honolulu, Mokapu Point and Paumalu (W. A. Bryan); 

 Haleiwa (Pilsbry). Maui: off Kaanapali in 60 feet. (Thaanum 

 and Langford). 



This species is smaller than Mnestia hizona (A. Adams), and does 

 not have the distinct bands of the typical form of that species; but 

 the relationship appears to be very intimate. 



The shore specimens are bleached quite white. 



Mnestia has been generally considered a subgenus of Cylichna. 

 Many authors consider the latter name to be a homonym of Cylich- 

 nus (Insecta), and moreover, Mnestia differs from Cylichna by its 

 well developed spiral sculptm'e; its soft parts are unknown. For 

 the present it appears best to treat the two groups as generically 

 distinct. 



AKERID.E. 

 HAMINCEA. 



Hamincea^ appears divisible into three sections by the structure 

 of the columella. These are defined in the following. 



Key to Hawaiian species of Hamincea. 



1. Columella deeply concave, the reflected columellar margin cres- 



centic, rather thick, its edge separated from the whorl by a 

 furrow. Section Haloa, new section, type H. crocata Pse 2 



Columella but slightly concave, the columellar edge free, narrow, 

 and but httle reflected, an umbilical crevice behind it. Shell 

 narrow (diameter less than half the length in our species); 

 sculptured with engraved spiral lines throughout. Subgenus 

 Liloa, new subg., type H. tomaculum Pils 4 



Columella concave, its reflected margin rather broad, thin, at 

 the edge closely appressed to the whorl. Section Hamincea 

 proper, type Bulla hydatis; not known to be represented in the 

 Hawaiian fauna. 



2. Apex perforate H. sandwichensis Sowb. 



Apex imperforate 3 



3. Oval; diameter two-thirds the length or less; yellowish when 



fresh; less than 14 mm. long H. crocata Pse. 



H. galha Pse. 



' Iredale has shown that the earliest speUing of "Haminea" was Haminaa. 

 Proc. Malac. Soc. Lond. XI, p. 172. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



More globose; white; 14 to 17 mm. long. H. aperta oahuensis 

 Pils. 



4. Diameter equalling or close to half the length . . H. curta (A. Ad.) 

 Diameter less than half the length 5 



5. Nearly cyhndric, elongate H. tomaculum Pils. 



Shorter; sides distinctly convex H. olopana, n. sp. 



Haminoea crocata Pease. Figure 6. 



Oval, light ochraceous buff. The specimen figured, received 

 from Pease, measures, length 13.2, diameter, 8.3 mm., but most of 

 those seen are smaller. H. crocata is scarcely to be distinguished 

 from H. galba Pse.; the latter (fig. 7, length 11, diameter 6.8 mm.) is 

 perceptibly less swollen, with the lip rising less at the summit; 

 according to Pease there are differences in the shape and color of 



Fig. 6. — H. crocata Pse. Fig. 7. — H. galba Pse. 



the living animals. In actual practice I find the assorting of speci- 

 mens far from easy. The historic examples figured are extremes 

 and recently collected shells often fall short of the ideal form. Both 

 forms have a close, fine, shallow and wavy spiral striation, scarcely 

 visible except under the microscope. 



Probably when the living animals are observed the conclusions 

 of Pease can be tested, and the matter put on a sounder basis. 



H. crocata is before me from Paumalu, Kailua, Koko Head and 

 Kaneohe Bay, Oahu, and Haena, Kauai. Specimens referable to 

 H. galba from Paumalu, Honolulu, Kaneohe Bay, Oahu, and Haena, 

 Kauai. 



Haminoea sandwichensis Sowerby. 



This shell is said to have an umbihcated summit and more pointed 

 ends. It is white, and rather similar to the preceding in shape. I 

 have not seen it in some hundreds of Hawaiian Hamineas examined. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



369 



Haminoea aperta oahuensis Pils. 



Oahu: IJ^ miles east of Kahuku, Pilsbry. Additional specimens 

 from Oahu are somewhat larger, up to 17 mm. long. They are 

 strongly malleate or faceted around the middle. 



In the section Haloa, containing the foregoing species, the colum- 

 ella resembles that of Bullaria or Aliculastrum. 



Haminoea curta (A. Ad.) Figixre 8a. 



Bulla curta A. Adams, Thesaurus Conchyliorum II, p. 582, pi. 124, fig. 100. 

 Pilsbry, Man. Conch. XV, p. 368. 



This species was described without locality. Specimens from 

 Fiji collected by Andrew Garrett agree with the original figure. I 

 refer to this species provisionally two smaller, perhaps immature,, 

 examples from Kaneohe Bay, Oahu, one of them figured. It meas- 

 ures, length 7, diameter 3.5 mm. The straighter lateral outlines 

 separate this from H. olopana. It has the same sculpture as H. 

 olopana, fine, clearly engraved spiral lines of which I count about 

 36. 



H. curta was first reported from the Sandwich Islands by von 

 Martens.* Cooke united as synonyms certain Red Sea forms, 

 whether correctly or not remains to be seen. 



The original figure of H. curta measures, length 14.3, diameter 

 7.5 mm. One from Fiji measures, 12.3, diameter 6.3 mm. The 

 summit is very minutely perforate, and the lateral outlines are a 

 trifle straighter than in the Kaneohe Bay form figured. 



Fig. 8. — a, Haminwa curia A. Ad. h, H. olopana n. sp. 



Haminoea olopana n. sp. Figure 8b. 



The shell approaches a cylindric form, but the outlines are notice- 

 ably convex. It is thin, translucent whitish with opaque white 

 terminations. Surface scored by fine spiral lines of which I count 

 26 just behind the outer lip. There are additional closer ones in 



* Donum Bismarckianum, p. 53. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



the columellar-basal region. These impressed Rnes are very smoothly 

 evenly engraved, widely spaced, and appear white on the translu- 

 cent ground. The rounded vertex is minutely perforate. There 

 is a fine slit behind the columellar callus. The aperture dilates 

 below. Outer lip arches forward; basal lip receding. The colum- 

 ella is only weakly concave with a narrow, expanded edge, forming 

 a long mnbihcal crevice; below it is slightly truncate. 



Length 7.8, diameter 3.3 mm. 



Kauai: Haena (W. A. Bryan). 



A less cylindric species than H. curta. 



HamincBa tomaculiun Pils. 



Haminea curta tomaculum Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 219, fig. 10. 



Further study of the Hawaiian Hamineas convinces me that this 

 form differs specifically from H. curta A. Ad. 



The three species preceding, as well as H. papyrus (A. Ad.), H. 

 hrevis (Q. & G.), H. cairnsiana Melv. and H. cuticulifera Smith, be- 

 long to the group which I have called Liloa. It is quite possible 

 that when the animal can be examined, this group will be transferred 

 to the vicinity of Ahjs. The sculpture and the form of the colum- 

 ella are much like Atys and unhke other groups of HammcBa. Atys, 

 however, has a fold in the axis posteriorly. Roxaniella Monts and 

 Damoniella Iredale^ differ by having the summit umbilicate. It is 

 barely perforate or sometimes imperforate in Liloa. 



Volvatella fragilis Pease. 



Volvatella fragilis Pse., P. Z. S. 1860, p. 20; Amer. Journ. Conch. IV, p. 

 73, pi. 7, fig. 4. Description and figures repeated in Man. Conch. XV, 

 p. 384. 



Sandwich Islands. Not found since the time of Pease. 



HYDATINID^. 



Thin, oval, capacious shells, banded, with the spire flattened or 

 convex. The Hawaiian species are widely ranging forms. 



1. Base contracted by a furrow running spirally from the insertion 

 of the columella; aperture shorter than the shell; two pink 

 and three white zones, separated by narrow blackish bands. 



Hydatina (Aplustruin) amplustre (L.). 



Base not so contracted; aperture nearly as long as the shell; 



columella broadly concave 2 



^ Damoniella Iredale, Proc. Malac. See. Lond. XIII, p. 37, new name for Rox- 

 ania Leach, not Roxana Stephens. Type Bulla cranchii. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



2. Large, with manj'' brown spiral lines ; coluinellar reflection lunate, 

 not appressed; spire level, of 3)^ whorls parted by a deep 

 suture; length 26, diameter 18 mm. 



Hydatina physis staminea (Mke.) 



Small, with two or three remote spiral lines and spaced, festooned 



axial lines of brown; spire minute, of 2J^ whorls; columellar 



reflection closely appressed; length 9, diameter 6 mm., often 



smaller Micromelo guamensis (Q. & G.) 



Hydatina physis staminea (Mke.) 



Honolulu Harbor, Oahu; Kainalu, Molokai (Wm, A, Bryan). 



All of the Hawaiian specimens seen belong to this subspecies. 

 The typical H. physis is larger and more globose. 

 Hydatina (Aplustrum) amplustre (L.) 



Honolulu Harbor and Kahana, Oahu; Kailua, Hawaii (W. A. 

 Bryan). Kahoolawe (Pilsbry). 



Easily recognized by the pink and white zones bordered with 

 wide blackish lines. One from Kahoolawe measures, length 21, 

 diameter 15 mm. 



Micromelo guamensis (Quoy & Gaimard). Figiire 9. 



Hawaii: Kailua (Wm. A. Bryan). Hilo (Garrett, for Bulla 

 scri-pta) . 



This snail appears to have been col- 

 lected rarely, though described long 

 ago. Besides the peculiarities of shape 

 and color-pattern shown in the figure 

 it has spaced spiral series of oblong 

 punctures, Adeon like, not easily seen 

 without a lens. The narrow spire is 

 level. The specimen figured measures : 

 length 9, diameter 6 mm. Others are 

 smaller. 



AGLAJID.,E. 



Aglaja, better known as Doridium, appears to be well represented 

 in the islands, though so far as I know, each species has been taken 

 but once. Two were described by Pease under the genus Philin- 

 opsis, which appears to be the same as Aglaja. 



The small shell is entirely concealed in the mantle. 

 Aglaja speciosa (Pease) , 



Above fawn, spotted and speckled with white, margins varied 

 with blackish and yellow; sides paler; foot purplish fawn closely 

 freckled with whitish. 3 inches long. 



Fig. 9. — Micromelo guamensis. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Seen only by Pease, whose full description of this species and 

 A. nigra may be found in Manual of Concho logy, vol. XVI. He 

 gave only ''Sandwich Islands" as locality. 

 Aglaja nuttalli Pils. 



Uniform black-brown above, pale with faint hghter maculation 

 below. A caudal filament. Length 40 mm. 



Sandwich Islands (Nuttall). Based on an old alcohoHc specimen. 

 Man. Conch. XVI, p. 50. 



Aglaja nigra (Pease) 



Black, two large white spots on anterior end, two on head disc, 

 and two on mantle lobes; sides white. Foot white, with throe large 

 black spots on each revolute side. Unknown to recent collectors. 



Aglaja pilsbryl hawaiensis n. subsp. Figure 10. 



Similar to A. pilshryi Eliot, « of the Samoan Islands, in having 

 figure 8 shaped black marks on both cephalic shield and mantle, but 



the figures are heavier than in that species. 

 The markings on the parapodia are reduced 

 to a few black spots along the lateral borders, 

 four on each side, one being beneath; and 

 there is an imperfect black rim on the front 

 edge of foot. The ground color is brownish 

 (perhaps stained by the alcohol, which has a 

 yellowish tint). No posterior filament. 

 Fig. 10.— Aglaja Length about 24 mm. 



pilshryi hawaiensis. jjilo, Hawaii (D. Thaanum). Type 47421 



A. N. S. P. 

 This is probably related to A. nigra (Pse.), and may possibly be 

 a less pigmented form or race of that, though I do not think so. 

 As Pease's species has not been figured, no close comparison can be 

 made. 



XV. Various Gastropods and Pelecypods. 



MURICID.E. 

 Vexilla thaanumi n. sp. 



Hilo, Hawaii. Types no. 127747 A. N. S. P., collected by D. 

 Thaanum. 



The shell is obovate, widest at the upper third, very solid. Sur- 

 face dull, regularly sculptured with very low, rounded, cantiguous 



^Doridium (Aglaia) pilsbryi, Eliot. Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1899, p. 512, pi. 

 19, figs, la, 16. Reef at Apia, Samoan Is. The type specimen is No. 47422, 

 A. N. S. P. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



spiral girdles parted by impressed lines, and themselves weakly 

 striate spirally; deep brownish drab, every third or fourth girdle 

 yellowish, or in worn shells whitish; there being 8 or 10 of these 

 pale, narrow bands. The spire is extremely short and obtuse. The 

 aperture is obhque, of about equal width almost throughout, black- 

 ish brown deep in the throat, becoming pale or white within the lip. 

 The outer lip is very thick, bevelled, liver-brown, its outer edge 

 minutely scalloped, the inner edge set with 10 or 12 small teeth. 

 The columellar border is broadly flattened, vinaceous-brown with 

 pale inner edge. 



Length 14, diameter 9.5 mm.; length of apertm'e 12.3 mm. 



Length 13.6, diameter 9.6 mm. 



The operculum is liver-brown, long and narrow, widest above, the 

 nucleus (which is worn away) at the upper, outer extremity; the 

 outer margin arcuate, inner margin straight. 



It is near V. taeniata Powys, but smaller and wider in the upper 

 part. 

 Murex cyclostoma baldwiniana n. subsp. 



The shell is similar to M. cyclostoma Sowb. in having the faces of 

 the varices cellular, in the shortly oval aperture and sculpture of 

 strong encircling cords; but the specimens from two sources are very 

 much smaller. There are 5 cords on the last, 2 on the penult whorl 

 The nearly closed anterior canal is a little shorter than the aperture. 



Length 8.2, diameter 5.2 mm. 



Kailua, Kona coast of Hawaii (Bryan); Maui (D. D. Baldwin). 



Possibly distinct from M. cyclostoma, which is a much larger shell; 

 a longer series is needed to show whether the small size is constant. 



VANIKORO. 



The following species of Vanikoro are now known from the Is- 

 lands. For references see Smith, Proc. Malac. Soc. London, VIII, 

 104-117. 



Vanikoro semiplicata Pease. Hilo, Hawaii; Paumalu, Oahu; 

 Haena, Kauai. 



Vanikoro imhricata Pease. Hilo, Hawaii; Kaneohe Bay, Oahu. 



Vanikoro acuta (Reel.). Kaneohe Bay, Oahu; Haena, Kauai. 

 Originally described from Lord Hood's Island, on coral reefs. The 

 Hawaiian specimens appear to be quite typical. 

 Vanikoro hawaiensis n. sp. 



The shell is openly umbilicate, subglobose, with small, conic, acute 

 spire; white with the apex brown. Embryonic and nepionic 3 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



whorls brown, high conic, the first smooth, the others having 3 spiral 

 cords. The next two whorls have very strong retractive ribs nearly 

 as wide as their intervals, crossed by spiral cords which bead the 

 ribs. On the first post-nepionic whorl I count 13 ribs; on the second 

 there are about 9 cords, and the ribs become very low, fading out, 

 on its last third. The last 13^ whorls have a close sculpture of 

 slightly unequal spiral threads; lines of growth are scarcely visible. 

 The umbilicus is funnel-shaped, rather weakly axially plicate within, 

 its margin smooth and rounded. The apertui-e is oblique, semi- 

 circular, the inner border slightly concave. 



Length 5.5, diameter 5.4 mm., 3J^ post-nepionic whorls. 



Hilo, Hawaii; Kaneohe Bay, Oahu; Haena, Kauai. 



Type 116963 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 10 — Vanikoro hawaiensis. 

 Vanikoro kanakarum n. sp. 



Shell openly umbiHcate, subglobose, with a short, conic spire and 

 slightly obtuse apex; white, the apex brown. The embryonic and 

 nepionic shell is semiglobose, of little more than one whorl, and 

 smooth. Retractive ribs then set in, continuing for two whorls; 

 their intervals are a little wider than the ribs, and crossed by about 

 10 spiral cords. The adult sculpture abruptly replaces this ribbed 

 neanic stage. It consists of spiral threads, between which there are 

 one to three finer threads. Lines of growth are scarcely noticeable. 

 The umbilicus is funnel-shaped, slightly plicate inside, bounded by 

 a nearly smooth rib, but slightly prominent. The aperture is semi- 

 circular. 



Length 3.7, diameter 4 mm.; 3}4 post-nepionic whorls. 



Haena, Kauai. 



The shape of the shell, in the floating stage, differs entirely from 

 that of V. hawaiensis. The ribbed neanic stage is longer. The type 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



would probably add another whorl; I think it is possibly not full- 

 grown; but I cannot identify it with any of the species hitherto 

 described. 



CJECIDM. 



In the Challenger Report, de Folin records C. sepimentum de Fol., 

 C. crystallinum de Fol., and Strehloceras suhannulatum de Fol. from 

 Honolulu. Subsequently he added Meioceras sandwichensis de Fol. 



C. sepimentum has been taken at Hilo, Hawaii, by Thaanum, 

 abundantly at Mokapu Point, Oahu, by Bryan, and at Moomomi, 

 Molokai by myself. S. suban7iulatu'm also occurs at Mokapu Point. 



Csecum oahuense n. sp. 



The shell is similar to C, sepimentum in form. It has an evenly 

 convex septum. The aperture is moderately contracted. Sculp- 

 ture of 40 rounded rings, hardly as wide as their intervals, and much 

 smaller than those of C. sepimentum. 



Length 2.2, diameter at septum 0.38, at aperture 0.5 mm. 



Mokapu Point, Oahu. 



Fossarus ecphora n. sp. 



The shell is umbilicate, white with a dark brown embryonic 

 whorl. Sculptm-e of three very prominent spiral ridges and one or 

 two minor ones on the last whorl, the upper one appearing on earlier 

 whorls, the rest of the sm-face having fine spiral threads and axial 

 striae. Spire shorter and ridges stronger than in F. lamellosus 

 Montr. 



Altitude 2.3, diameter 2.5 mm. 



Haleiwa, Oahu, Pilsbry, 1913. 



This is evidently not the young of F. garrettii Pse., which has been 

 taken at Hilo, Hawaii and Koko Head, Oahu. 



F. multicostata Pse., has been found at Waikiki and Kaneohe Bay, 

 Oahu. 

 Epitonimndecussatum (Pease). 



Not an uncommon species. Dr. Dall informs me that the name 

 is pre-occupied. 



Epitonium kanemoe n. sp. Fig. 11 b. 



It is very slender, imperforate, white, with sculpture of slender, 

 recurved ribs, 8 on the last whorl, the intervals having minute axial 

 striae and coarser, more spaced spiral threads. Whorls not quite 

 in contact except at the ribs. 




376 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Length 10.4, diameter 3.3 mm.; 10 whorls, the tip lost. 



Haena, Kauai. 



It is as narrow as E. unibilicatum (Pse.), but has fewer ribs and the 

 spirals would not be called "remote." It is more slender than E. 

 decussatum, with more delicate ribs. 



Epitonium fucatum (Pse.) Fig. 11 a. 



It is broader, than Epitonium decussatum, clouded with brown in 

 the peripheral region, with rather strong ribs, 10 on the last whorl. 

 Interstitial sculpture and form of the whorls about as in decussatum. 



Honolulu Harbor. 



Length 14.5, diameter 5.8 mm.; 7 whorls remaining, the apex 

 lost. 



a b c d 



Fig. 11. — a, Epitonium fucatum b, E. kanemoe. c, E. ulu. f, E. oahuense. 



Dr. Dall suggests that this may be the unfigured Scalaria fucata 

 Pse. 



Epitonium ulu n. sp. Fig. lie. 



Related to S. crispata Pse., of the Paumotu group, but having the 

 delicate rib lets much more widely spaced. There are about 21 of 

 these thread-like riblets on the last whorl. The base is perforate; 

 columellar lip reflected below. Aperture rather trapezoidal, the 

 parietal callus thin, outer lip narrowly reflected. White. 



Length 14, diameter 5.8 mm.; 10 whorls, the tip lost. 



Hilo, Hawaii. D. Thaanum. 



Epitonium oahuense n. sp. Fig. lid. 



Resembhng E. turricula (Sowb.). The shell is mnbilicate, rather 

 thin, suffused and clouded with brown. Glossy, having thin riblets 

 with a few wider ones, 14 on the last whorl; in the intervals minute, 

 unequal engraved spiral hues may be seen. The whorls are in con- 

 tact, well rounded. The aperture is shortly ovate, peristome adnate 

 for a short distance above. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Length 14, diameter 5.3 mm.; aperture 3.5 mm. long; 9 whorls, 

 the tip lost. 



Oahu: Honolulu Harbor and Kahana. 



Epitonium perplexum (Pse.) is the largest Hawaiian species known 

 to me, also the most generally distributed. E. alatum (Sowb.), 

 E. millecostatum (Pse.) and E. decussatum (Pse.) have been taken by 

 Prof. Bryan and Mr. Thaanmii. E. attenuatum and umhilicatum 

 of Pease I have not seen. I have provisionally identified a small 

 specimen from Waimanalo, Oahu, as E. paumotense (Pse.). The 

 curious, solute E. hyalinum (Sowb.) is represented in Kaneohe Bay 

 by specimens agreeing well with those from Luzon in shape, but of 

 smaller size, the largest 8 mm. long, 4 wide, of five whorls after the 

 slender nepionic tip; 8 ribs on the last whorl, 7 points on each rib. 

 This small race may be called E. hyalinum mokuoloense. 



Haplocochlias (Lophocochlias) minutissimus n. sp. 



The very small shell is umbilicate, turbinate, not nacreous, white 

 with a conic brownish spire. The first whorl appears to be smooth; 

 on the second fine radial folds or puckering appears below the suture, 

 becoming coarser on the following whorl. The last whorl has six 

 strong, smooth spiral keels, narrower than the intervals, which are 

 .flat;, and crossed by numerous retractively axial threads, which are 

 much narrower than their intervals. Within the umbilicus two 

 rather small spiral cords are se6n. The aperture is quite oblique, 

 subcircular. The outer lip is strengthened by a rounded external 

 rib or varix a short distance behind the edge. 



Length 1, diameter 0.9 mm.; 43/^ whorls. 



Mokapu Point, Oahu, 4 specimens. 



By the well-developed varix this shell resembles Haplocochlias 

 or Liotia. I have placed it in the former genus with doubt. It 

 differs by the very strong sculptm^e and the open though not wide 

 umbilicus, which may characterize a separate section Lophocochlias. 



This is the smallest Hawaiian sea shell I have seen. 



LEPTOTHYRA.7 



The following species have been reported from the Hawaiian 

 Islands. 

 L. verruca Gld. 



'Perhaps this name should yield place to Anadema A. Ad., but the type of that 

 group is imperfectly known. It is larger than the known Leptothyras. See 

 Man. of Conch. X, p. 255. 




378 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



L. ruhricinda Migh. 



L. Candida Pse. 



L. (?) marmorea 'Pse' Sowb. 



L. costata Pse. 



Only the first two can be considered well known. 



Leptothyra verruca manti, n. subsp., differs from the typical form 

 by the black (on the beach fading to brown or olive-brown) color 

 of the tesselation, or it may be black with whitish spots, and the 

 smaller size, altitude 4, diameter 3.8 mm. It is from Diamond 

 Head, Oahu, Haena, Kauai and other places, often abundant. 



/^'~T?^!I>s 



X 



Fig. 12. — Leptothyra Candida 

 percostata. 



Fig. 13. — L. viaria. Fig. 14. — L halnearii. 



Leptothyra Candida percostata (fig. 12) is a small, thick, white, 

 narrowly mnbilicate shell, with sculpture of 7 spiral ribs, the first 

 radially plicate, the rest smooth, below them a broad, radially plicate 

 border about the mnbilicus. The aperture is rounded, oblique. 

 Columella arcuate, narrow next to the umbilicus, very broad and 

 fiat at the base. Length 2.3, diameter 2.5 mm. It differs from 

 L. Candida as defined by Pease by the solidity and coarse ribs. 

 Has been taken at Haleiwa and Honolulu (Pilsbry) and Hilo (Thaa- 

 num). 



There are sometimes interstitial threads between the ribs. 



Leptothyra balnearii n. sp. Fig. 14 



The shell is perforate, solid and thick, red tessellated with white 

 (or entirely red), the first whorl white. Sculpture of smooth spiral 

 cords, of which four in the flattened peripheral region are large ; above 

 them there is a small cord and a flattened, radially plicate sub- 

 sutural band; below there are four small cords and a strongly pli- 

 cate band around the umbilicus. Aperture oblique. Columella 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



straightened outwardly, concave within, dilated and very broad 

 towards the base. Outer hp thin-edged. 



Altitude 2.6, diameter 2.6 mm. 



Off Waikiki, 25-50 fms. D. B. Langford. This species agrees 

 partly with Pease's L. costata (Maui), but that is said to be "mottled 

 and spotted with white, black and brown." It is also larger. 



Leptothyra viaria n. sp. Fig. 13. 



The shell is solid, narrowly umbilicate, buff-white with small 

 scattered olivaceous dots. Sculpture of about 5 smooth larger 

 cords in the peripheral region, about 4 smaller ones on the base, the 

 intervals of all finely striate spirally; above the peripheral cords 

 there are subequal spiral threads, 7 in the type specimen; the 

 penult whorl is angulated in the middle. UmbiHcus is surrounded by 

 a rounded, radially phcate ridge. The columella is narrow above, 

 very much produced basally, with a broad, excavated face. Outer 

 lip thin. 



Altitude 3.7, diameter 3.5 mm. ._:'. 



Honolulu, type locality, and Haleiwa, Pilsbry. 



Apparently related to L. costata Pse., but differing in proportions 

 and various other details from that still unfigured species. 



Siphonaria normalis Gld. 



Specimens from numerous places on all of the islands except 



Lanai and Niihau examined, often in large series. There are many 



local forms, but so far as I can see, but one species, S. normalis Gld., 



which varies extraordinarily in size, color and sculpture. The 



following names are on the Hawaiian list. 



S. normalis Gld. Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H. ii, 1846, p. 178; Otia Conch, pp. 

 12, 242; U. S. Expl. Exped., MoUusca, p. 359, pi. 30, fig. 468. 



The type was a small, dark subregular form, 10 mm. long. 

 S. amara Nuttall, Reeve, Conch Icon., IX, 1856, pi. 7, fig. 33 ("California"). 



Said by Keeve to be from California, but this was a mistake. A 

 set given by Nuttall is labelled "Atooi" (= Kauai). Carpenter has 

 noted this in his MoUusca of Western North America. 



S. funiculata Reeve, Conch. Icon. IX, pi. 7, fig. 35 (Hab. unknown). Name 

 changed to S. lirata on index page, a.s funiculata had been used for another 

 species. 



This is the very black form. 

 S. nutlalli Hanley, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1858, p. 152 (Ins. Sandwich). 



S. crehricostata Nuttall Ms. was placed by Reeve in the syn- 

 onymy of >S. sipho Sowb., but it was really a Hawaiian shell., a> 

 rather large form of S. normalis. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



The specimens of a colony are usually rather uniform. The finest 

 seen are from Lahaina, length 21, height 9 mm. In Honaunau Bay, 

 Hawaii, all seen are small, about length 10, altitude 4.5 mm., and 

 they are very black (var. lirata Rve.). Further up the coast the 

 shells are larger, often with some ribs emphasized. At Moomomi, 

 Molokai, the cavity is some shade of chestnut, border wide, whitish 

 with many brown rays. Similar shells occur at Honokowai, Maui, 

 Diamond Head, etc. These shells agree best with var. amara. 



On the north shore of Kahoolawe I found some very flat shells 

 with 4 or 5 posterior ribs very emphatic (fig. 15). This may be 

 called S. normalis form chirura. Length 10.5, alt. 2.5 mm. 



All of these forms have the same dark, oblong, Nacella-like em- 

 bryonic shell, with posterior apex, and all seem to fade into one 

 another in color and sculpture, in the series of some hundreds ex- 

 amined. 



Fig. 15. — Siphonaria normalis form chirura. 

 Stomatella concinna inconcinna n. subsp. 



Similar to *S. concinna in shape, but dull, greenish white, with some 

 opaque white flames and sometimes a few small brownish dots on 

 the base; these markings confined to the spiral cords. Spiral cords 

 more or less distinctly alternating in size. 



Greatest dimension 3.5 mm. 



Honolulu, on the reef, Pilsbry, 1913. 3 specimens. 



Heteroglypta kanaka n. sp. Fig. 16. 



The shell is oblong, compressed, white, faintly freckled with tawny. 

 The small beaks are central. Anterior part tapering, rounded at 

 the end. Posterior part wider, obliquely truncate. Sculpture of 

 rounded ribs posteriorly, divaricating from a line from the beaks 

 to the lower posterior angle, curved and running to the posterior 

 end behind, straight and running to the basal margin in front of 

 the hne of divarication. The rest of the surface has narrow impressed 

 lines running obliquely backward and downward except close to the 

 anterior end, where there is some very weak obhque corrugation, 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



381 



running to the upper anterior margin. The pallial sinus is deep, 

 extending past the beaks. The right valve has two diverging car- 

 dinal teeth, and a pink spot on the hinge margin on each side of the 

 cardinal region. 



Length 11.4, altitude 6.3, diameter 3 mm. 



Fig. 16. — Heteroglypta kanaka n. sp. 



Off Waikiki, near Honolulu, 35-50 fms. D. B. Langford. 



While it differs from H. contrarius Dh. in proportions of the shell 

 and arrangement of the sculpture-areas, I have not found any more 

 closely related species. 



Loripes (Pillucina) spaldingi n. sp. Fig. 17. 



The shell is rather strong, rounded-oval, higher than long, very 

 plump; white with some unevenly spaced grayish streaks along 

 darker lines of gi'owth-arrest. Sculp- 

 ture of rather irregular but close 

 concentric wrinkles and radial Hnes, 

 which are distinct at the ends but 

 nearly obsolete in the median part. 

 Beaks rather prominent, median. 

 Anterior end evenly rounded; post- 

 erior end less produced and less 

 convex; basal margin strongly con- 

 vex. Lunule small, rather deeply 

 impressed, wider and deeper in the 

 right valve. The internal margin 

 is finely crenulate. Cavity of the beaks narrow and deep. There 

 is a stout median cardinal tooth in the right valve, a prominent, 



Fig. 17. — Loripes spaldingi, n. sp. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



erect, triangular anterior cardinal in the left. No laterals. Anterior 

 adductor scar elongate (shown too short in the figure). 



Length 7.4, altitude 8.5, diameter 6.5 mm. 



Oahu: Kaneohe Bay, Spalding, Thurston and Pilsbry, type local- 

 ity; Paumalu, W. A. Bryan. 



This little clam is related to the Japanese Lucina parvula Gld. 

 (L. pisidium Dkr.), but it is plumper and higher. Lateral teeth 

 seem to be entirely wanting. These species appear to represent 

 a new subgenus of Loripes, Pillucina; L. spaldingi being the type. 

 Shell plump, with radial sculpture, the anterior adductor scar less 

 elongate. 



Loupes is here used as defined by Dall, Proc. U. S. N. Mus. XXI II, 

 p. 803. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



December 21. • 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 

 Fifty-seven persons present. 



Officers, Councillors, and members of the Committee on Accounts 

 were elected for the ensuing year, as follows: 



President John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., 



Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Recording Secretary James A. G. Rehn. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Curators Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D., 

 Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Councillors to serve three 



Years Charles B. Penrose, M.D., 



Charles Morris, 



WilHam E. Hughes, M.D., 



Roswell C. Williams. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris., 



Samuel N. Rhoads., 

 John G. Rothermel., 

 Thomas Stewart, M.D., 

 Walter Horstmann. 



On the election of his successor as Recording Secretary in pur- 

 suance to a resolution adopted at the meeting in November, Dr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, became Recording Secretary Emeritus for hfe. 



Annual Reports were received from the Recording Secretary, the 

 Corresponding Secretary, the Librarian, the Curators, the Treasurer, 

 the auditors of the Treasm'er's accounts, the Treasurer of the Manual 

 of Conchology, the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections, and from 

 the following sections of the Academy: Biological and Microscopical, 

 Entomological, Botanical, Ornithological, Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following 

 papers for publication: 



"Additional Notes on the Deal Meteorite," by F. J. Keeley. 



"Description of a New Cyprinoid Fish {Notropis stonei), with 

 Notes on other Fishes obtained in the United States," by Henry 

 W. Fowler. 



The deaths of Theodore C. Search, May 10, 1920, and Alfonso 

 de Figaniere, members, were announced. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW CYPRINOID FISH (NOTROPIS STONEI) WITH 

 NOTES ON OTHER FISHES OBTAINED IN THE UNITED STATES. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Several small collections of fishes obtained in various parts 

 of the United States have been received at the Academy recently. 

 A summary is presented herewith of those not reported previously, 

 mainly as short annotated lists. One species obtained in South 

 Carolina is described as new, and several others are recorded within 

 new faunal regions or at new localities. 



New Jersey. 



Mr. Henry S. Drinker has contributed interesting data on various 

 sharks secured at Beach Haven. Dr. R. O. Van Deusen visited 

 Blackwood in late April, 1920, and Tuckahoe, in Cape May County, 

 on May 23, 1920. On September 12, 1920, the writer with Mr. 

 Edwin Fowler, visited Laurie's Pond at Lakeside, near Yardville, 

 in Mercer County. Mr. Wm. T. Innes visited Corson's Inlet on 

 October 17, 1920, and sent a few notes on several common species 

 seen there. 



Carcharias taurus Rafinesque. Jaws of a small example, about 

 3 feet long, obtained at Brigantine during the past summer. 



Carcharodon carcharias (Linne). Mr. Drinker reports a large 

 example taken in a pound at Beach Haven, in early July, 1920. A 

 small section of its skin, together with some copepods with which 

 it was infested, were received later. As the specimen was largely 

 butchered, Mr. Drinker had no opportunity to secure measurements 

 or other data. This ferocious shark is only known in New Jersey 

 waters from two previous records. The first notice is by Hussakof, 

 who mentions seeing two teeth of a freshly caught specimen, alleged 

 from the New Jersey coast, in early June of 1916. He estimated 

 this specimen at 7 or 8 feet in length. Nichols reports the second 

 example from off South Amboy, July 14, 1916, which he saw mounted, 

 and measured 7^ feet in length. These records appear to have 

 been the only ones in 1916 suggesting that the shark scare of that 

 season may have been due in part to the presence of the great white 

 shark. Our record shows that the species occurs casually. It may 

 be present more frequently than is generally supposed. 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Eulamia milherti (Miiller and Henle). Mr. Drinker secured one 

 August 8, 1919, 8 feet, 6 inches in length, which weighed 300 lbs. 

 Another caught August 5, 1920, was 8 feet, 7 inches long, girth at 

 gills 45 inches, and weight 300 lbs. These were captured at Beach 

 Haven, as well as two smaller examples, without detailed data, but 

 which show the teeth slightly more serrate, or the serrse coarser. 

 Jaws from an example secured recently at St. Thomas, West Indies, 

 by Mr. N. P. Alexander, agree in every respect. 



Hypoprion hrevirostris Poey. Mr. Drinker secured a fine example 

 of this species at Beach Haven, on July 11, 1919. It measured 9 

 feet 6 inches in length and weighed 265 lbs. The jaws have been 

 received at the Academy. This is the first record, so far as I know, 

 of the occurrence of the short-nosed shark in New Jersey waters, 

 or north of the Carolinas. It is therefore another interesting addi- 

 tion to our local fauna. 



Sphyrna zygcena (Linne). Mr. L. Hoffman reported two examples, 

 each about 7 feet in length, at Beach Haven, on September 11, 

 1920. Other species also seen by him at this locality were: Mus- 

 telus canis; egg-case of large skate, containing embryo (probably 

 Raja ocellata), Pomatornus saltatrix, Roccus lineatus, Cynoscion 

 regalis, Scicenops ocellafus, Micropogon undulatus, Leiostomus xan- 

 thurus, Menticirrhus saxatilis, Pogonias cromis. 



Pomolohus pseudoharengus (Wilson). Blackwood. 



Ameiurus natalis (Le Suem-). Blackwood and Tuckahoe. 



Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). Lakeside. 



Semotilus hullaris (Rafinesque). Blackwood. 



Ahramis crysoleucas (Mitchell). Tuckahoe. 



Catostomus commersonnii (Lacepede). Blackwood and Tuckahoe, 

 also the next. 



Erimyzon sucetta ohlongus (Mitchill). 



Anguilla rostrata (Le Sueur). Tuckahoe and Lakeside, also the 

 next. 



Esox americanus (Gmelin). 



Esox tridecemlineatus Mitchill. Blackwood and Tuckahoe. 



Umbra pygmcea (De Kay). Lakeside. 



Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). Corson's Inlet, with the next two. 



Fundulus heterochtus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Cyprinodon variegatus Lacepede. 



Euleptorhamphus brevoortii Gill. The head of an adult example, 

 now in the Academy, was secured by Dr Witmer Stone. It was 

 given to him by a collector, Mr. Cunningham, who picked it up on 




i" 



1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



the beach at Cape May several years ago. But a single previous 

 New Jersey record is known, and that is still represented by the 

 example in the Academy obtained at Atlantic City in 1870 and 

 reported by Cope. The species is rare on the coast of the United 

 States. 



Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). Corson's Inlet, with the next. 



Trachinotus carolinus (Linne). 



Seserinus paru (Linne). Dr. Van Deusen sent a fine example, 

 received from Fortescue, on Delaware Bay, July 13. He also re- 

 ports 40 examples taken at Atlantic City at the same time. These 

 are the first definite records we have for this species in New Jersey, 

 as Abbott only refers to it in 18QS as Peprilus longimanus and vaguely 

 from "our coast." 



Pomoxis sparoides (Lacepede). Blackwood. 



Acantharchus pomotis (Baird). Tuckahoe, with the next two. 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Mesogonistius choetodon (Baird). 



Lepomis auritus (Linne). Blackwood, with the next. 



Lepomis incisor Valenciennes. 



Pomotis gibbosus (Linne). Blackwood and Lakeside. 



Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede). Blackwood, with the next. 



Perca fiavescens (Mitchill) . 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). Tuckahoe and Lakeside. 



Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linne). Two at Ocean City, July 30 

 by Prof. C. La Wall and one at same place, September 17, by Mr. 

 D. McCadden. 



Tauioga onitis (Linne). Corson's Inlet. 



Pennsylvania. 



Several collections were made by the writer with Dr. R. 0. Van 

 Deusen and Mr. Frederick Morrell, July 5, 1920, in Montgomery 

 County: Mine Run, a tributary of the Perkiomen near Audubon; 

 Skippack Creek near Lower Providence; western tributary of the 

 Perkiomen near Doe Run and another near Yerkes; Perkiomen at 

 Yerkes; West Swamp Creek, a tributary of the Perkiomen at 

 Zieglerville , Rich Valley Creek at Sumneytown ; North East Branch 

 of Perkiomen Creek. 



Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). Yerkes and North East Branch 

 of Perkiomen, also the next. 



Schilheodes insignis (Richardson). 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). Near Doe Run and at 

 Yerkes. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). North East Branch of Perkio- 

 men. 



Notwpis whipplii analostanus (Girard). Lower Providence, 

 Yerkes, Zieglerville, Sumneytown and North East Branch of Perk- 

 iomen. 



Notwpis cornutus (Mitchill). Same as last, except not found at 

 Zieglerville. 



Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). Three examples, 64 to 83 

 mm. in length, from Lower Providence. The smallest has a dis- 

 torted vertebral column, so that its body in the vertical axis appears 

 slightly sigmoid after the dorsal fin. The others are the largest 

 examples I ever secured, and are spawning females, full of ova. 

 Their depth is 4| to 4|. They were obtained in a pool, possibly 

 30 inches deep, and are without brilliant coloration. 



Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). Mine Run, near Doe Run and 

 at Yerkes. 



Cyprinus carpio Llnne. Yerkes. 



Catostomus commersonnii (Lacepede). Mine Run, Lower Provi- 

 dence, Yerkes and North East Branch of Perkiomen. 



Erimyzon sucetta ohlongus (Mitchill). Yerkes. 



Anguilla rostrata (Le Sueur). Yerkes and North East Branch of 

 Perkiomen. 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). North East Branch of Perkio- 

 men. 



Leporms auritus (Linne). Yerkes, Zieglerville and North East 

 Branch. 



Pomotis gihhosus (Linne). Yerkes and North East Branch. 



Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede. North East Branch. 



Perca flavescens (Mitchill). Yerkes. 



Delaware. 



Nine collections were made by the writer, with Messrs. H. E. 

 Thompson and L. Dorsey, in the lower part of the State: West 

 Branch of the Nanticoke, and East Branch, 4 miles west of Harring- 

 ton, October 3, 1920; headwaters of Brown's Branch, near Harring- 

 ton, October 4; Cedar Creek south of Lincoln City, from the P. R. 

 R. down its lower course and passing two mill-dams," October 4; 

 Indian River at Millsboro, October 5; estuary of creek flowing from 

 Dagsboro, near Indian River Bay, October 5 ; Ocean View, October 

 5; headwaters of Herring Creek, and lower fresh waters of same, 

 October 6. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). School of small ones in Indian 

 River just below Millsboro. 



Anchovia mitchilli (Valenciennes). Mouth of stream from Dags- 

 boro. 



Schilbeodes gyrinus (Mitchill). East and West Branches ofNanti- 

 coke. 



Ahramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). West Branch of Nanticoke, Cedar 

 Creek at first dam, Millsboro and lower Herring Creek. 



Notropis hudsonius amarws (Girard). West Branch of Nanticoke. 



Notropis chalybceus (Cope). Cedar Creek at first and second 

 dams, and lower Herring Creek. 



Erimyzon sucetta ohlongus (Mitchill). East Branch of Nanti- 

 coke. 



Anguilla rosirata (Le Sueur). West Branch of Nanticoke and 

 fresh pond at estuary of Herring Creek. 



Esox americanus (Gmelin). West Branch of Nanticoke and 

 Cedar Creek at upper dam. 



Esox tridecemlineatus Mitchill. Cedar Creek at both dams, 

 Millsboro and Herring Creek headwaters. 



Umbra pygmcea (De Kay) . West Branch of Nanticoke. 



Fundidus majais (Walbaum). Estuaries from Dagsboro and 

 Herring Creek. 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrokpidotus (Walbaum). Localities as 

 for last species, and in ditch at Ocean View. 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). Fresh ponds along Herring 

 Creek estuary. 



Lucania parva (Baird). Ocean View and Herring Creek, also the 

 next. 



Cyprinodon variegaius Lacepede. 



Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Lower dam on Cedar 

 Creek, Millsboro, Ocean View and Herring Creek. In ponds and 

 often in fresh water. 



Memdia benjlUna (Cope). Stream from Dagsboro and lower 



Herring Creek. 



Menidia menidta notata (Mitchill). Estuary from Dagsboro 



stream. 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill). Millsboro. 



Aphredoderus sayanus (Gilliams). West Branch of Nanticoke 

 Creek. Brown's Branch, upper Cedar Creek and first dam. 



Trachinotus carolinus (Linne). The only fish we found in the surf 

 at Bethany Beach. Along the shores of Delaware Bay, at Slaughter 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Beach, the following were reported recently or during the warm 

 period in late September: Mustelus cams, Raja eglanteria, Dasyatis 

 say, Brevoortia tyrannus, Alosa sapidissima, Pomolohus pseudo- 

 harengus, Cynoscion regalis, Leiostonius xanthurus and Micropogon 

 undulatus. But one Acipenser sturio, reported taken at the fishery 

 below, during the spring. 



Acantharchus pomotis (Baird). We captured a single adult in the 

 upper waters of Herring Creek, This is an interesting addition to 

 the fauna of the State. 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). East and West Branches of 

 the Nanticoke, Cedar Creek at both dams and Herring Creek in 

 fresh water. 



Mesogonistius choetodon (Baird). Upper dam on Cedar Creek. 



Lepo7nis auntus (Linne). West Branch of Nanticoke. 



Pomotis gibbosus (Linne). With the last, also in Cedar Creek at 

 the upper dam and in brackish water of stream from Dagsboro. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). West Branch of Nanticoke 

 and Brown's Branch. 



Boleichthys fusiforniis (Girard). West Branch of Nanticoke and 

 Cedar Creek at both dams. 



Cynoscion nebulosus (Cuvier). Estuary from Dagsboro stream, 

 also the next. 



Pseudopleurofiectes americanus (Walbaum). 



Maryland.^ 



Small collections were made in Barrow Creek, tributary to the 

 Rhodes River, and Glebe Creek, a fresh tributary of the South River 

 in Anne Arundel County, during May of 1920, with Mr. R. M, 

 Abbott. In Cecil County Mr. H. L. Mather and the writer visited 

 Elk Neck and Piney Creek Cove, on the Elk River, September 25, 

 1920. Two days later Stony Run and streams about North East and 

 Charlestown were examined. 



Ameiurus catus (Linne). Elk Neck. 



Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). Glebe Creek. 



Hybognathus nuchalis regius (Girard). Elk Neck and Piney 

 Creek Cove. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Glebe Creek, Stony Run and 

 North East. 



^ The only Virginia fishes received recently are a number of Fundulus hetero- 

 clitus macrolepidolus from the Warwick River, from partly salt water. They 

 were obtained by Dr. Henry Tucker, March 5, 1919. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Notropis hifrenatus (Cope). Piney Creek Cove. 



Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard). Elk Neck. 



Notropis ivhippUi analostanus (Girard). Stony Run and second 

 brook above Chariest own. 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). Stony Run. 



Erimyzon sucetta ohiongus (Mitchill). Piney Creek Cove. 



Anguilla rostrata (Le Sueur) Barrow Creek and North East. 



Fundulus heteroclitus macroleptdotus (Walbaum) Barrow Creek. 



Fimdulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). Piney Creek Cove and North 

 East, also the next. 



Menidia herylhna (Cope). 



Menidia menidia yiotata (Mitchill). Barrow Creek. 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill). Piney Creek Cove. 



Seserinus paru (Linne). One from the Rhodes River, obtained 

 by Mr. Abbott, September 25, 1920. 



E nneacanthus gloriosus (H.o\hvook). Piney Creek Cove. 



Lepomis auritus (Linne). North East. 



Pomotis gibhosus (Linne). Piney Creek Cove, Elk Neck and 

 North East. 



Percaflavescens (Mitchill) . Elk Neck, second brook above Charles- 

 town and North East. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmMedi (Storer). Piney Creek Cove. 



Roccus lineatus (Block). Elk Neck, North East, with next. 



Morone americana (Gmelin). 



Leiostomus xanihurus Lacepede. Barrow Creek. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linne). Barrow Creek and Elk Neck. 



Gobiosoma bosc (Lacepede). Barrow Creek. 



South Carolina. 



In May of 1917 Dr. Witmer Stone obtained an interesting small 

 collection from the PocataUgo River, near Manning. He had 

 previously visited this locality in 1914 and published a Hst of the 

 fishes obtained then.^ It is noteworthy that three of the species 

 secured then are not represented in the present collection, though 

 there are equally as many present not in the 1914 lot, and one 

 appears new to science. 



Notropis stonei.new species. Head 3|; depth 4; D. ii, 8; A. ii, 

 8; P. I, 12; V. I, 7; scales 30 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 

 more on latter; 7 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal origin, 3 below to anal 



2 Copeia, September 15, 1914. No. 10. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



origin; predorsal scales 18, snout 4 in head; eye 3|; maxillary 3j; 

 interorbital 2|; second simple dorsal ray 1|; second simple anal 

 ray ll; pectoral 1^; ventral 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2j; upper caudal lobe 1. 



Body well compressed, edges rounded, deepest at dorsal origin. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth 1| its length. 



Head conic, moderately compressed, flattened sides moderately 

 approximated below. Snout wide, conic, length f its width. Eye 

 large, advanced, hind pupil edge nearly midway in head length. 

 Mouth moderate, oblique, jaws even. Maxillary largely concealed, 

 reaches eye. Premaxillaries protractile. Jaw edges moderately 

 trenchant. Lips narrow. Mandible rather shallow and rami little 

 elevated inside mouth. Nostrils together, near last f in snout. 

 Interorbital broadly and evenly convex. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 

 small, weak, obsolete or scarcely evident. Filaments about half of 

 eye. Isthmus narrow, especially forward, where frenum narrow. 

 Pharyngeal teeth 5-4, well hooked, and broad grinding surfaces 

 entire. 



Scales large, well exposed, more or less uniform on trunk and 

 smaller on caudal base, belly and breast. Scales cycloid; basal 

 radiating striae 9; circuli rather coarse, 16 to 20, weak and obsolete 

 apically. Scales disposed in longitudinal rows parallel with 1. 1., 

 which continuous to caudal base and well decurved forward; small 

 tubes simple. 



Dorsal origin about midway between hind eye edge and caudal 

 base, second simple ray longest. Anal rather well developed, like 

 dorsal, inserted little nearer caudal base than pectoral origin. Cau- 

 dal moderate, emarginate behind. Pectoral moderate, not quite 

 reaching ventral. Last inserted well before dorsal, reaches anal. 

 Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded dull brown, paler or whitish below. Dark 

 lateral band begins at snout tip and extends to caudal base, and on 

 sides forward expanded until much wider than eye. Fins all pale, 

 ventral and anal slightly whitish. Dorsal with dusky blotch for- 

 ward near base. Lateral dark band ends in dusky blotch at caudal 

 base size of pupil, which reflected out on median caudal rays basally. 

 Along back pale longitudinal line separates color from back above. 



Length 36 mm. 



Type, No. 50,118, A. N. S. P. Pocataligo River near Manning. 

 May 1917. Dr. Witmer Stone. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Paratypes, Nos. 50,109 to 50,121, same data. Head 3f to 3|; 

 depth 4i to 4|; D. ii, 7 or 8; A. ii, 8; scales 29 ? to 32 in lateral 

 line to caudal base, and several more on latter; predorsal scales 

 15 or 16; snout 3 1 to 3 1 in head from upper jaw tip; eye 2| to 3; 

 maxillary 2| to 3; interorbital 3 to 3|; length 20 to 35 mm. 



Of this species I have seen only the above examples. They 

 apparently represent a species allied in the subgenus Alhurnops as 

 the pharyngeal teeth are uniserial and well hooked, lateral line com- 

 plete, and large scales (less than 40) well exposed. N. stonei may 

 readily be distinguished from the other lowland species of the genus, 

 A'', roseus and N. chayhoBus, by its extremely broad dark lateral 

 band and dark blotch on the dorsal fin. 



(For Dr. Witmer Stone, who collected the types.) 



Notropis stonei, new species. 



Notropis chalyhceus (Cope). Four examples. 



Fundulus nottii (Agassiz). Abundant. 



Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very abundant, females 

 more so and greatly larger than males. Largest female 58 mm, 



Chcenohryttus gulosus (Cuvier). Several. 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). Five examples, all dull in 

 color. 



Georgia. 



On March 25, 1904, Mr. J. A. G. Rehn secured a few fishes in a 

 small stream at Thomasville. 



Abramis crysoleucas bosci (Valenciennes). Fifteen examples. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Enmyzon sucetta (Lacepede). One. 



Esox ameyicanus (Gniehn) . One. 



Fundulus nottii (Agassiz). Four. 



Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque) . Ten. Also one on March 30. 



Florida. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard obtained a fine lot of small fishes from the 

 Everglades about Miami in March, 1920. Mr. Howard R. Hill 

 sent a number of specimens and notes, on the fishes noticed during 

 the fall of 1920, in Pensacola Bay near Pensacola. These are all 

 indicated by the letter P. 



Scoliodon terrce-novce (Richardson). P. 



Dasyatis sahina (Le Sueur). Three young from Allenhurst, Julj^, 

 1917. H. W. Aitken. These show the front margins of the disk 

 slightly concave opposite the nostrils. 



Elops saurus Linne. P. 



Harengula pensacolce Goode and Bean. Young from Useppa 

 Island, Lee County, obtained by Mr. Hebard in 1919. 



Brevoortia tyrannus patronus Goode. P. 



Anchovia mitchilli Valenciennes. P. 



Gymnothorax funehris Ranzani. P. 



Fundulus similis (Baird and Girard). Two smaller ones from 

 Useppa Island, Charlotte Harbor, in May, 1919, obtained by Mr. 

 Hebard. 



Fundidus grandis Baird and Girard. Abundant and all of moder- 

 erate size and variable. In alcohol many males with orange caudal, 

 ventral and anal borders. In other specimens these fins gray. 

 Tamiami Canal, Everglades. March 8 to 12. 1920. 



Fundulus confluentus Goode and Bean. Large series from the 

 Tamiami Canal. The species is more abundant than the preceding, 

 which it greatly resembles. It may be distinguished at a glance 

 by at least one blackish or dusky vertical line, or bar, on the caudal 

 basally, also the presence of a black blotch ocellated with white on 

 the last dorsal rays, which occurs in both sexes. It is very variable, 

 the back mostly finely spotted with black or dusky, which usually 

 assumes a greatly mottled appearance. In one example approaching 

 melanism the ground-color in alcohol is pale warm brown above, 

 greatly specked or spotted with blackish, the spots completely 

 covering dorsal and caudal fins and extending well down side. Dark 

 lateral bars very variable in intensity, mostly distinct or pronounced 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



in males and young. Male also with pectoral, anal and caudal 

 more or less gamboge. 



Fundulus cingulatus Valenciennes. Four from the Tamiami 

 Canal. Color in alcohol largely dull olivaceous, with rounded pale 

 scattered pearly spots on side. Anal with 9 branched rays. 



JordaneUa floridce Goode and Bean. Abundant at Muck, Tami- 

 ami Canal. In alcohol back shows 4 to 6 dull-brown saddle-like 

 blotches. Younger or smaller examples more contrasted, with 7 or 

 8 dull brown vertical bars, which may be interrupted above to form 

 alternately with dark blotches along back. All show black median 

 lateral blotch. 



MoUienisia latipinna Le Sueur. Very abundant, at Muck, with 

 the preceding. 



Corytkoichthys albirostris Kaup. One received from Mrs. George 

 Eubank, through Mr. Clarence B. Moore, from Marco in Lee County, 

 obtained in April, 1919. 



Cypselurus heterurus (Rafinesque). Many young, about 40 in 

 all, from Miami Beach, obtained by Mr. Hebard. Largest 50 mm., 

 smallest 13. These show great variation. The pectoral reaches 

 back nearly far as tip of depressed ventral. Of the specimens 

 counted anal shows 10 branched rays. Lower part of sides usually 

 with 5 large dusky blotches. Pectoral blackish. Dorsal dark, 

 though in some small examples dusky, and anal white like caudal. 



Strongylura notata (Poey). P. 



Strongyhira timucu (Walbaum). P. 



Membras vagrans (Goode and Bean). Small example from near 

 Useppa Island, in Lee County, May, 1920. 



Memdia heryllina {Cope) . Young with the last. 



Mugil cephalus Linne. Two in the Querimana stage, from near 

 Useppa Island. Both have A. ii, 9, and are 22-23 mm. in length. 



Sarda sarda (Bloch) . P. 



Scombero)norus maculatus (Mitchill). P. 



Selar crumenophthalmus (Bloch) . P. 



Selene vomer (Linne). P. 



Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill). P. 



Trachmotus falcatus (Linne). One from Miami Beach. Length 

 15 mm. D. VII, 20; A. iii, 18. 



Seserinus paru (Linne) . P. 



Coryphcena hippurus Linne. Seven from Miami Beach, largest 

 50mm. 



Gobiomorus gronovii (Gmelin). Six from Miami Beach. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Chcenohryttus gulosus (Cuvier), Abundant at Muck in the Tam- 

 iami Canal, 



Lepomis pundatus (Valenciennes). Eight from the Tamiami 

 Canal at Muck. All with long gill-rakers, and pectorals shorter 

 than head. Spots variable. 



Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). Very abundant with the last 

 two. All small and quite variable in color. Many, especially 

 larger, show a slightly darker spot on each scale basally, in alcohol. 

 Most all show pale blue bars or lines on the snout, side of head 

 and cheek. In none, though often wide, is the opercular flap pro- 

 duced. Many show dark fins. In all the rakers are short, rather 

 weak and mostly less than 10. Pectoral always much less than 

 head. 



Lepomis incisor (Valenciennes). Four from the Tamiami Canal. 

 Largely silvery when fresh in alcohol. No blue lines on side of 

 head. Pectoral long as head and rakers lanceolate. Though small, 

 these appear more slender than in the last species. 



Epinephelus striatus (Bloch).^ P. 



EpinepheJus morio (Valenciennes). P. 



Garrupa nignta (Holbrook). P. 



Promicrops guttatus (Linne). During the winter of 1905 Capt. 

 Willoughby secured a large adult example at Ft. Lauderdale, the 

 skull of which is in the collection. 



Myderoperca falcata phenax Jordan and Swain. P. 



Lutjanus aya (Bloch. P. 



Lagodon rhomhoides (Linne). P. 



Cynoscion nothus (Holbrook). P. 



Bairdiella dirysura (Lacepede). P. 



Leiostomus xanthurus Lacepede. P. 



Menticirrhus americanus (Linne). P. 



Ahudefduf marginatus (Bloch). Young example, 15 mm. long 

 from Miami Beach. 



HaUchceres bivittatus (Bloch). P. 



Alutera schcepfii (Walbaum). P. 



Chilomyderus schcepfii (Walbaum). Two from South Boca Grande 

 in Boca Grande Pass. Collected by Mr. Hebard in May, 1920. 

 These are exactly the reverse of Eigenmann's statement that "in 

 the young there seems to be more lines than in the old. Two speci- 



' Mr. Hebard secured an example of Apogonichthys stellatus Cope, 43 mm. long, 

 at North Bimini Island, Bahamas, March 13, 1920. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



mens examined, 3 inches long, have 17 hnes between the pectorals; 

 a specimen 5 inches long has 10 lines; and the largest specimen 

 examined, 10 inches long, has 12 lines."" My larger example, 155 

 mm. long, has 21 lines between the pectorals; the smaller example, 

 132 mm. long, has 10 lines between the pectorals. Their general 

 color-pattern is similar, even to the disposition of the black blotches, 

 though these are quite variable, likewise the armature. The fins 

 are pale or whitish, and uniform in color. 



Prionotus tribulus (Bloch). P. 



Citharichthys macrops (Dresel). P. 



Opsanus tau (Linne). Allenhurst. November 11, 1917. H. W. 

 Aitken. 



Gobiesox strujnosus Cope. Small one from an empty shell at 

 Captiva Pass, south end of Lacost Island. Obtained by Mr. Hebard 

 in May, 1920. 



Histrio histrio (Linne). Of 21 young from Miami Beach, largest 

 45 mm. These show great variation in color-pattern, and even the 

 smaller ones may be coarsely or finely variegated. 



Illinois. 



With two exceptions, as noted, the following were secured by Mr. 

 W. T. Innes in a small tributary of the IlHnois River at Marley, in 

 September 1, 1912. 



Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). 



Chrosomus erythrogaster (Rafinesque). 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Notropis athermoides Rafinesque. Mr. C. J. Hunt^ sent eight 

 examples from the West Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago 

 River, January 24, 1911. 



Fundulus notatus (Rafinesque). 



Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede. 



Percina caprodes (Rafinesque). Two obtained by Mr. Innes from 

 Fox Lake in October, 1920. 



Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). 



Poecilichthys coeruleus (Storer). 



Pcecilichthys fiahellaris (Rafinesque). 



Cottus hairdii Girard. 



* Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 3, 1883-5 (1885), p. 308. 



* Also several examples of Semotilus atromaculatus and Perca fiavescens from 

 Wawasee, Indiana, obtained July 12, 1913. 




398 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Wisconsin. 



Mr. H. T. Wolf obtained the following in Booth's fish market, 

 Milwaukee, during the summer of 1906: 



Coregonus quadrilateralis Richardson. Lake Superior, 



Coregonus clupeaformis (Mitchill). Lakes Superior and Michigan, 

 and Georgian Bay. 



Leucichthys nigri'pinnis (Milner). Milwaukee. 



Leucichthys prognathus (H. M. Smith). Milwaukee. 



Salvelinus fontinalis (Mitchill). Lakes Superior and Michigan. 



Cristivomer naniaycush (Walbaum). Milwaukee. 



Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede). Fox Lake. 



Stizostedion vitreum (Mitchill). Milwaukee, also next two. 



Stizostedion canadense (Griffiths). 



Perm, /Zafescens (Mitchill). 



Minnesota. 



Mr. F. L. Tappan secured the following about Minneapolis dur- 

 ing September 1911: 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 

 Notropis heterodon (Cope). 

 Notiopis cornutus (Mitchill). 

 Schilheodes gyrinus (Mitchill). 

 Umbra limi (Kirtland) . Cedar I^ake. 

 Labidesthes sicculus (Cope). 

 Eucalia mconstans (Kirtland) . 

 Ponioxis sparoides (Lacepede). 

 Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). 

 Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). 



Missouri. 



Mr. Julius Hurter sent a smaU collection in July, 1912, from Fox 

 Creek, a tributary of the Meramec River, at a point about 26 miles 

 from St. Louis : 



Ichthyomyzon concolor (Kirtland). Adult. 



Scaphirhynchus platorynchus (Rafinesque). Young example. 



Polyodon spathula (Walbaum). Young. 



Lepisosteus platostomus (Rafinesque). Young. 



Amiatus calvus (Linne). Small example. 



Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). One from St. Louis in fall 

 of 1915. 



Chrosom.us erythrogaster (Rafinesque). Several. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). One from St. Louis received 

 from Mr. W. T. Innes in 1918. 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). Adult. 



Notropis zonatus (Agassiz). Two. 



Lepomis humilis (Girard). One from St. Louis. Obtained from 

 Mr. Innes, November 1, 1920. 



Poedlichthys cceruJeus (Storer). Several. 



Coitus hairdii Girard. Several. 



Arizona.* 



Several species were secured by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry in the fall 

 of 1910 for the Academy. 



Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque) . Dr. Witmer Stone obtained 

 6 young examples in a stream in Rucker Canyon, headwaters of 

 the Rio Yaqui basin, at 6500 feet elevation in the Chiricahua Mount- 

 ains, July 8, 1919. 



Leuciscus intennedius (Girard). Very many from the Santa 

 Cruz River at Tuecon, September 4, 1910, and a single example from 

 the Salt River, tributary of the Gila at Tempe, September 5, 1910. 

 Some of the larger examples tuberculated. These and the next all 

 in Dr. Pilsbry's collections in the Academy. 



Cyprinodon macularius Baird and Girard. One from the Salt 

 River at Tempe. 



Mollienisia occidentalis (Baird and Girard). Many with the last 

 and from the Santa Cruz River at Tuecon. 



Utah. 



The following were collected by Mr. Herbert J. Pack, of Logan, 

 during the past season. 



Leuciscus lineatus (Girard). Very many small ones from Hanyton 

 Bridge, Bear River at Fielding, August 15. These all show but a 

 short lateral line, not extending beyond the dorsal in the largest. 

 Abundant in warm spring at Udy's Springs, Riverside, in Boulder 

 County, August 12. 



The largest example, from Magna, measures 100 mm. It and 

 many young from slightly muddy fresh water, July 31. 



Leuciscus phlegethontis (Cope). Two from meadow-streams in 

 western part of Logan, August 9. Length 31 to 42 mm. Color of 



« Mr. S. N. Rhoads obtained the following in the fresh waters of the Colorado 

 River delta, in the vicinity of the Hardy River, Mexico, in the early spring of 

 1905; Ameiurus nebidosus, Xyrauchen texanus, Gila elegans, Cyprinus carpio 

 and Mugil cephalus. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



larger example, when fresh in alcohol, with median dusky lateral 

 band from snout, including mandible tip, to caudal base. This 

 band very distinct and composed of rather large dots. Parallel 

 from upper eye edge back to caudal peduncle and defining color of 

 back, narrower similar band or line, mostly pale posteriorly. From 

 pectoral axil side of body below broad dark lateral band pale cad- 

 mium to anal base, and more yellowish on lower surface of caudal 

 peduncle. Axils of pectoral and ventral more or less tinged with 

 pale citron-yellow, also basal portions of paired fins. Breast, belly 

 and lower surface of head, white. Dorsal and caudal dull olive, 

 other fins pale, with dusky terminal tints. 



Also two from small pond at edge of railroad. Salt Lake City, 

 August 31. 



Agosia nuhila carringtoni (Cope). Abundant in meadow streams 

 in western Logan, August 9. Most with lateral Une incomplete and 

 barbel absent. 



Cyprinus carpio Linne. One from Hanyt.on Bridge. 



Cottus semiscaher (Cope). Abundant, in meadow streams in 

 western Logan, August 9. Largest 58 mm. 



Nevada. 



Agosia nevadensis (Gilbert). Twelve examples, largest 55 mm. 

 long, from the Amargosa River at Beatty, August 12, 1919. Ob- 

 tained by Messrs. J. A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard. These fish 

 were found in small schools, in the larger pools, and moderately 

 plentiful. 



California. 



During the late fall of 1897 the Academy received from Prof. 

 Harold Heath a collection of fishes from Pacific Grove, all of which 

 are still in good condition. These are indicated by the letter P. 

 I have also included several notes given by Mr. J. A. G. Rehn on 

 some of the larger fishes seen by him at Santa Catahna in the summer 

 of 1907. 



Polistotrema stouti (Lockington). P. 



Galeorhinus zyopterus Jordan and Gilbert. Four small gray 

 sharks at Santa Catalina, about 3 to 5 feet long, were evidently 

 this species. 



Raja hinoculata Girard. P. 



Torpedo californica Ayres. P. 



Hydrolagus colliei (Lay and Bennett) . P. 




1920.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Pogonichthys microlepidotus (Girard). Mr. F. S. Curtis forwarded 

 an example of this and the following two species from Arrayo Crista 

 Blanca at Livermore, which were received in September, 1912. He 

 says, "in the winter and early spring this stream flows into the Bay 

 of San Francisco, but in the smiimer is only a series of pools. The 

 head of the stream is coarse gravel, several feet deep, and the water 

 flows under gi'ound between the deep pools. None of the pools are 

 more than four feet deep, or usually only about two. The fish were 

 caught in strong sulphur water, as just above the pool a strong 

 sulphur-spring boiled up in the middle of the creek. This is so 

 strong that it fills the air with the odor, and the stones, etc., in the 

 pool are all coated with sulphur. About a dozen sculpins [Coitus 

 gulosus (Girard)] 1| to 2| inches long were caught, and were 

 smooth. Those taken last year at Niles were prickly, with the sides 

 rough. Together with the suckers [Catostomus occidentalis Ayres] 

 and Sacramento perch [Archo-plites interruptus (Girard)] they are 

 about the only fish found here. The game-wardens are glad to have 

 us take the dace as they are very destructive to the trout eggs and 

 fry, and in fact the chief enemies they have in these streams. " 



Ptychocheilus grandis (Ayres) . 



Myloleucus sy7nmetricus (Baird and Girard). 



Atherinopsis calijorniensis Girard. 



Cypselurus californicus (Cooper). Popular bait for tuna at Santa 

 Catalina. Retailed for 10 cents each, or prices varied with abund- 

 ance. Messrs Rehn and Hebard kindly fm-nished the note on this 

 species and the following six. 



Auxis thazard (Lacepede). Reported occasionally at Santa Cata- 

 lina. One seen by Mr. Rehn 4| feet long a mounted dry specimen. 

 Called "Japanese tuna" and "short-finned tuna." 



Thunnus thynnus (Linne). Fom* seen at Santa Catalina and a 

 number of mounted examples. Previously, or ten days before Mr. 

 Rehn's stay, 15 to 20 were taken, and many more were reported 

 since. Some were upwards of 168 lbs., and one of such size had a 

 large piece bitten out by a shark. The examples Mr. Rehn saw 

 ranged from 110 to 125 lbs. They were captured altogether by rod 

 and reel anglers, with flying-fish as bait. 



Germo alatu?iga (Gmelin). Called "albacore" and "long-finned 

 tuna." Abundant game fish at Santa Catalina. Mr. Rehn took 

 two of 18 lbs., one of 20 lbs and one of 27 lbs. The species attains 

 a weight of 50 lbs. 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Seriola dor salts (Gill). ''Yellow tail." Several fresh ones seen 

 at Santa Catalina. Taken closer in shore than the other fishes. 



Tetrapturus mitsukurii Jordan and Snyder. One example, cap- 

 tured September 21, 1910, about five miles off the southeastern 

 shore of Santa Catahna, measured nine feet in length. At the time 

 the species was irregular, or only a few taken by the anglers. They 

 break at the surface, but do not jump like the tarpon. They do not 

 strike the hook but take it gradually, so that after a short interval 

 the angler sets it with a jerk. Then a battle ensues for half an hour 

 or more, in which time the fish becomes exhausted and is finally 

 gaffed. Mr. Rehn did not hear the alleged name "marlin spike- 

 fish" for it at Santa Catalina. 



Stereolepis gigas (Ayres). "Jew fish." Mr. Rehn reports 6 or 

 8 large ones on the dock at Santa Catalina, and the largest 6 or 7 

 feet long. 



Genyonemus lineaius (Ayres). This and all the following from 

 Pacific Grove: Zalembius rosaceus (Jordan and Gilbert), Cymato- 

 gaster aggregatus Gibbons, Oxyjuiis calif ornicus (Gtinther), Sebastodes 

 paucispmus (Ayres), Sebastodes elongatus (Ayres), Anoplopoma fim- 

 bria (Pallas), ScorpcenicUhys marmoratus (Ayres), Hemilepidotus 

 jordani Bean, Taranichthys filamentosus (Gilbert), Eopsetta jordani 

 (Lockington), Parophrys vetulus Girard, Microstomus paaficus 

 (Lockington) , Glyptocephalus zachirus Lockington, Citharichthys 

 sordidus (Girard), Caularchiis neandricus (Girard), Gibbonsia evides 

 (Jordan and Gilbert), Anoplarchus atropurpureus (Kittlitz), Xip- 

 hidion rupestre (Jordan and Gilbert), Anarrichthys ocellatus Ayres, 

 Chilara taylori (Girard), Porichthys notatus Girard. 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



403 



INDEX TO GENERA AND SPECIES DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1920 



New species and genera are indicated by heavy-faced type. 



Abramis crysoleucas. . . . 386, 388-390 



c. bosci 393 



Abudefduf marginatus 396 



Acantharchus pomotis 387, 390 



Acanthops erosa 229 



rehni 229 



Achilognathus himantegus 130 



Acipenser st urio 390 



Acontiothespis bimaculata 219 



Acromantis australis 74 



dyaka. . .'. 74 



hesione. 73 



luzonica 71 



ijioultoni 70 



oligoneura 71, 72 



parvula 71 



Acrossocheilus formosanus 123 



invirgatiis 123 



Acteocina hawaiensis 300, 363 



honoluluensis 363 



sandwicensis 363 



Aetaella 44 



bakeri 45 



Aglaja nigra 372 



nuttalli .. 372 



pilsbryi hawaiensis 372 



speciosa 371 



Agosia nevadensis 400 



nubila carringtoni 400 



Alonsoa. . . 147, 166 



meridionalis 167 



serrata 167 



Alosa sapidissima 390 



Alutera schoepfii 396 



Amantis aeta 31 



basilana 34 



maculata 31 



reticulata 30 



Ameiurus catus 390 



natalis 386 



nebulosus 386, 387, 390, 399 



Amiatus calvus 398 



Amnicola tryoni 9 



Amorphoscelis borneana 17 



AmpuUaria flagellata 9 



Anaplecta chrysoptera 214 



replicata 214 



Anarrichthys ocellatus 402 



Anaulacoinera bellator 258 



brevifauda 258 



libidinosa 261 



sulcata 263 



Anaxipha aperta 285 



olmeca 285 



Anchiptolis chapadensis 276 



Anchoria mitchillii 389, 394 



Ancyclus concentricus 7 



radiatus 7 



Angela infuscata 220 



Angelonia '. . . . 147 



angustifolia 187 



.salicarisefolia 187 



Anguilla japonica 134 



mauritiana 133 



rostrata 386, 388, 389, 391 



Anisolabi.s annulipes 338 



Anodontites jaliscoensis 193 



luteolus 10 



Anoplarchus atropurpureus 402 



Anoplopoma fimbria 402 



Apeltis quadracus 389, 391 



Apercstoma dysoni 3 



Aphonomorphus inopinatus 286 



Aphredoderus say anus 389 



Aplexa fuliginea 6 



spiculata guatemalensis 6 



Apogonichthys stellatus 396 



Aquilegia canadensis 118 



Arachnoidiscus 207 



ehrenbergii cuneatus 207 



Archimantis armata 69 



latistyla 69 



Arctostaphylos uva-ursi 104 



Asplenium platj^neuron 117 



Atherinopsis calif orniensis 401 



Atys 370 



kekele 365 



semistriata 365 



s. fordinsulae 365 



s. mua 365 




404 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Auxis thazard 401 



Azalea arborescens 100 



canescens 99 



nudiflora 99, 118 



viscosa 100 



Babesia bovis 331 



Bactridium grande 242 



Bairdiella chrysura 396 



Bartsia 140 



Barbodes paradoxus 127 



Basalt 354-357 



Bolbe pygmaea 19 



Boleichthys f usif ormis 390 



Boleosoma nigrum 397, 398 



n. olmstedi 387, 390, 391 



Botrychium virginianum 116 



Bramia monnieri 144 



Brevoortia tyrannus 389, 390 



t. patronus 394 



Bucrates capitatus 281 



Bullaria peasiana 363 



Bullina scabra solida 362 



vitrea 362 



Caconapea 144, 149 



appressa 150, 152 



auriculata 150 



axillaris 150, 152 



conferta 150, 153 



debilis 150, 151 



Caecilioides domingensis 204 



Caecum oahuense 375 



Caliris elegans 39 



masoni 39 



Caltha palustris 118 



Campostoma anomalum 397-399 



Candidia barbata 130 



Capraria 143, 147 



biflora 147 



b. pilosa 148 



hirsuta 148 



Carassius auratus 122 



Carcharodon carcharias 385 



Carcharias taurus 385 



Cardium thaanumi 323 



Catostomus commersonnii. . . 386, 388 



Caularchus neandricus 402 



Caulopsis lancifera 278 



Ceraia cornutoides 256 



Ceroys perfoliatus 237 



Chaenobryttus gulosus 396 



Chamaedaphne calyculata 102 



Chandodichthys macrops 132 



Chilara taylori 402 



Chilomycterus schoepfii 396 



Chimaphila maculata 98 



umbellata 98 



Chiogenes hispidula 104 



Chlorohippus roseipennis 249 



Chrosomus erythrogaster . . . . 397, 398 



Citharichthys macrops 397 



sordidus 402 



Clarias fuscus 122 



Clethra alnifolia 97 



Cnephomantis 225 



fuscatus 225 



Cochliopa compacta 197 



guatemalensis 198 



hinkleyi 198 



infundibulum 198 



izabal 200 



minor 199 



picta 197 



riograndensis 197 



rowelli 198 



trochulus 198 



tryoniana 198 



Compsomantis semirufula 35 



Congeria bryanae 323 



Conobea. 144, 153 



scoparioides 153 



Conocephalus clausus 281 



iriodes 282 



saltator 282 



Copiocera erythrogastra 249 



Copiphora producta 277 



Coregonus clupeaf ormis 398 



quadrilateralis 398 



Corema conradii 108 



Corynorhynchus hispidus 244 



Coryphaena hippurus 395 



Corythoichthys albirostris 395 



Cottus bairdii 397, 399 



semiscaber 400 



Creobroter episcopalis 81 



granulicollis 78 



labuanae 78 



meleagris 80 



Cristivomer namaycush 398 



Cultriculus akoensis 132 



Cymatium spp 320 



vestitum 320 



V. insulare 320 



Cymatogaster aggregatus 402 



Cynoscion f usif ormis 390 



nothus 396 



regalis 386, 390 



Cyprinodon macularius 399 



variegatus 386, 389 



Cyprinus carpio 122, 388, 400 



Cypselurus calif ornicus 401 



heterurus 395 



Cyrtoxipha pernambucensis 283 



Damasippus pulcher 239 



Damoniella 370 



Dasyatis say 390 



sabina 394 



Dendrium buxifolium 101 



Deroplatys desiccata 47 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



405 



truncata 47 



Diabase. 354-357 



Diamusonia 226 



Diedronotus laevipes 245 



Dinia compitorum 364 



Diplophyllus ensifolius 271 



Diponthus bilineatus 246 



Doru lineare 352 



Drymaeus attenuatus pittieri 5 



costaricensis 5 



hegewischi 192 



josephus 6 



sulphureus 5 



D3'me straminea 239 



Eleotris oxycephala 134 



fusca 134 



Elops saurus 394 



Enneacanthus gloriosus 



387, 390, 391, 393 



Eopsetta jordani 402 



Epigaea repeiis 103 



Epilampra atriventris 216 



fallax. 216 



imitatrix 216 



latifrons 216 



Epinephelus morio 396 



striatus 396 



Episcopotettix sulcirostris 249 



Epitonium decussatum 375 



f ucatum 376 



hyalinum mokuoloense 377 



kanemoe 375 



oahuensis 376 



ulu... 376 



Epsomantis tortricoides 20 



Erimyzon succeta 394 



s. oblqngus. . . . 386, 388, 389, 391 



Esox americanus 386, 389, 394 



tridecemlineatus 386, 389 



Esphalmenus lativentris 338 



Euborellia annulipes 339 



janeirensis 338 



minuta 338 



peregrina 339 



scudderi 339 



Eubotrys racemosa 102 



Eucalia inconstans 398 



Euchomenella heteroptera 37 



molucarum 37 



Eulamia milberti 386 



Euleptorhamphus brevoortii 386 



Eumiopteryx laticollis 224 



Eumusonia livida 228 



Euryderes anisitsi 219 



Euthyrrhapha pacifica 218 



Eutrochatella microdina chryseis. 197 



Fagelia 147, 168 



alata 170, 176 



bogotensis 169, 174 



chelidonioides 171, 183 



erenata 169, 173 



f-renatiloba 171, 182 



fruticosa 168, 172 



lehmanniana 169, 17.3 



micrantha 171, 180 



microbefaria 168, 171 



nevadensis 170, 176 



ovata 170, 179 



perfoliata 170, 178 



pinnatisecta 171, I89 



radiculoides 171, 181 



saxatilis 169, 173 



scalaris 171, 184 



tolimensis 170, 177 



trilobata 169, 175 



Flutaalba......... 133 



Formosania gilberti 122 



Fossarus ecphora 375 



Fundulus cingulatus 395 



confluentus 394 



diaphanus 388, 389, 391 



grandis 394 



heteroclitus macrolepidotus 



386, 389, 390 



majalis 386, 389 



notatus 397 



notii 393, 394 



similis 394 



Galax aphylla 108 



Galeorhinus zyopterus 400 



Gambusia affinis 133, 389, 391 



Gaulthieria procumbens 103 



Garrupa nigrita. 396 



Gast rocopta colombiana 329 



Gaylussacia baccata 105 



brachycera 105 



dumosa 105 



frondosa 105 



Genyonemus lineat.us 402 



Germo alatunga 401 



Gibbonsia evides 402 



Gilda suavis 40 



Glossogobius brunneus 135 



Glyptocephalus zachirus 402 



Gnathopogon iijimae 128 



Gobiesox strumcsiis 397 



Gobiomorus gronovii 395 



Gobiosoma bosci 391 



Gonypeta borneana 35 



Grammadera chapadensis 264 



rostrata 264 



Gratiola 144, 154 



bogotensis 154 



Guppya angasi 3 



browni 3 



calverti 3 



costaricana 4 



c. elatior 5 



selenkai 3 




406 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



t rochulina 3 



Gymnothorax funebris 394 



Haania lobiceps 38 



Habenaria blephariglottis 118 



ciliaris 118 



cristata 118 



grandiflora 118 



lacera 118 



peramoena 118 



psycodes 118 



Halichgeres bivittatus 396 



Haminea 367 



Hamincea 367 



aperta oahuensis 369 



crocata 368 



curta 369 



olopana 369 



sandwichensis 368 



tomaculum 370 



Haplocochlias (Lophocochlias) 



minutissimus 377 



Harengula pensacolse 394 



Helicina abbotti 205 



deppeana parvidens 3 



funcki 3 



oaxacana 196 



Hemibarbus labeo 127 



Hemilepidotus jordani 402 



Hemimyzon formosanus 122 



Hermetica advena 218 



scrobiculata 218 



Heteroglypta kanaka 380 



Hierodula 52, 53, 63 



aruana 59 



denticulata 64 



gracilicoUis 54 



laevicollis 52, 60 



obiensis 53, 60 



patellifera 58 



rajah 58 



sorongana 52, 62 



splendida 65 



venosa 53, 57 



vitrea 53, 55 



Histrio histrio 397 



Homotoicha f uscopunctata 256 



Hyalinia (Stenopus) angasi 3 



Hybognathus nuchalis regius. . . . 390 

 Hydatina (Aplustnim) amplustre. 371 



physis staminea 371 



Hydraiithelium 145, 158 



braunii 158 



Hydrolagus colliei 400 



Hymenopus coronatus 77 



Hypalopeza tigrina 19 



Hyperophora brasiliensis 250 



peruviana 251 



Hyperophrona signata 258 



Hypopitys americana 99 



lanuginosa 99 



Hypoprion brevirostris 386 



Ichthyomyzon concolor 398 



Ilysanthes... 146, 164 



inaequalis 164 



Ischnoptera amazonica 215 



Ischyra punctinervis 275 



Jordanella floridse 395 



Kahnia angustif olia 101 



latifolia 101 



Kongobat ha 22 



diademata 23 



Kuhha marginata 134 



Labeo jordani 123 



Labia arcuata 348 



dorsahs 348 



Labidesthes sicculus 398 



Labidura riparia 340 



xanthopus 340 



Lagodon rhomboides 396 



Leiostomus xanthurus 



386, 390, 391, 396 



Lendneria 145, 161 



angulata 161, 162 



humihs 161 



Lepisosteus platostomus 398 



Lepomis auritis. . . . 387, 388, 390, 391 



humiUs 399 



incisor 387, 396 



megalotis 394, 396, 398 



punctatus 396 



Leptomantis albella 40 



fragiHs 41 



lactea 42 



tonkinse 42 



Leptothyra 377 



balnearii 378 



Candida percostata 378 



verruca manti 378 



viaria 379 



Leucichthys nigripinnis 398 



prognathus 398 



Leucisculus 128 



fuscus 129 



Leuciscus intermedius 399 



Uneatus 399 



medius. 190 



phlegethontis 399 



schisturus 189 



Leucocarpus 147, 165 



perfoHatus 166 



Ligocatinus minutus 254 



sordidus 252 



spinatus 256 



Lihum canadense 117 



superbum 117 



Liloa 370 



Limodorum tuberosum 119 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



407 



Linaria 147 



texana 188 



Liobagrus formosanus 121 



nantoensis 121 



Lissochilichthys 124 



matsudai 124 



Listrocelis atrata 282 



Liza troscheli 134 



Lobophyllus reversus 272 



Loripes (Pillucina) spaldingi 381 



Lucania parva 389 



Lutjanus aj-a 396 



Macuillamia 145, 157 



limosa 158 



Mantoida burmeisteri 219 



Mecardonia 144, 148 



ovata 148 



procumbens 149 



Membras vagans 395 



Menidia bervllina 389, 391, 395 



menidia notata 387, 389, 391 



Menticirrhus americanus 396 



saxatilis 386 



Menj'anthes trifoliata 119 



Menziesia pilosa 100 



Meroncidius flavolimbatus 276 



marginatus 276 



Mesogonistius chi3etodon 387, 390 



Mesopteryx alata 51 



Metallyticus violaceus 18 



Microcentrum lanceolatum 272 



Micromelo guamensis 371 



Micropogon undulatus. . 386, 390, 391 



Micropterus dolomieu 388, 397 



salmoides 387, 398 



Microstomus pacificus 402 



Microvostox chopardi 346 



ghilianii 348 



parvus 346 



Mimulus 146, 165 



glabratus 165 



Miopteryx 225 



Misgurnus anguillicaudatus 122 



decemcirrosus 122 



Mitra coronata aurora 314 



emersoni 316 



kawehameha 313 



langfordi 315 



lugubris 314 



1. honoluluensis 314 



olivellaeformis 315 



ostergaardi 314 



thaanumiana 313 



ticaonica vagans 314 



waikikiensis 316 



Mnestia pusilla 366 



Modiolus matris 321 



peasei 321 



Mollienisia latipinna 395 



occidentalis 399 



Monastria biguttata 217 



cassidea 218 



Monocardia 144, 155 



albida 1.56, 157 



humilis 156, 157 



lilacina 156 



violacea 155, 156 



Monotropa uniflora 99 



Morone americana 391 



Mugil cephalus 134, 395 



oeur 134 



Murex cyclostoma baldwiniana. . 373 



peW. 318 



torref actus insularum 319 



Musonia costalis 226 



Musoniella chopardi 225 



Mustelis canis 386, 390 



Mycteroperca falcata phenax 396 



Mytilus crebistriatus 322 



Nanomantis austrab's 28 



Nemobius hebardi 283 



Neoblatella conspersa 215 



Neoconocephalus irroratus 281 



vicinus 281 



Neocosmiella atrata 352 



Neolobophora ruficeps 352 



Neomantis australis 21 



Neopieris mariana 102 



Nephronaias aztecorum tolimanen- 



sis 194 



tempisquensis 9 



Nessa vectis 288 



Notolampra gibba 215 



Notropis atherinoides 397 



bifrenatus 391 



chalybffius 389, 393 



cornutus 388, 391, 397-399 



heterodon 398 



hudsonius amarus 389, 391 



photogenis amoenus 388 



zonatus 399 



stonei 391 



whipplii analostanus. . . . 388, 391 

 Nucula hawaiensis 327 



Odontomantis javana euphrosyne 77 



j. javana 76 



Odontosagda havanensis 203 



Odostomia (Chrysallida) hiloensis 299 



Oecanthus minutus 283 



Olcyphides tithonus 237 



Oligomantis orientalis 69 



Opeas beckianum 5 



Ophicephalus tadianus 134 



Opisthosiphon maynardi 204 



Opsanus tau 397 



Opsomantis tumidiceps 36 



Orchidaceae 110 



Orthodera ministralis 19 



Orthopristis chrysopterus 387 




408 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Oryzias latipes 133 



Oxydendrum arboreum 103 



Oxyjulus calif ornicus 402 



Oxyopsis lobeter 231 



oculea 231 



Oxyprora flavicornis 278 



Oxystyla f erussaci tricincta 5 



princeps 5 



Pachychilus 201 



Panchlora prasina 217 



Paramusonia 226 



Paraoxypilus verreauxii 17 



Paraphasma marginale 238 



Parasilurus brevianalis 121 



Parasparatta dentifera 351 



guyanensis 349 



Parastagmatoptera glauca 235 



Paratenodera 50 



Parhierodula 52, 53, 63 



Parophrys vetulus 402 



Perca flavescens 



387, 388, 391, 397, 398 



Percina caprodes 397 



Pernvia ingromarginata 245 



Petasodes dominicana 217 



Phasma radiatum 237 



Phegopteris dryopteris 117 



Phoraspis picta .' 215 



Photina brevis 219 



Phoxiscus kikuchii 128 



Phylloptera cognata 268 



ovalifolia 269 



phyllopteroides 265 



quinque-maculata 264 



spinulosa 270 



tenella 265 



tripunctata 264 



Physa solidissima 193 



Piliucina 382 



Pimephales notatus 399 



Pinus echinata 117 



rigida 117 



virginiana 117 



Planorbis caribaeus 6 



contrerasi 193 



hondurasensis 6 



tenuis 6 



t. chapalensis 192 



Plecoglossus altivelis 121 



Plesiacanthops 231 



Podoscirtus arnericanus 285 



Pa>cilichthys ca?ruleus 397, 399 



flabellaris 397 



Pogonias cromis 386 



Pogonichthys microlepidotus 401 



Polistotrema stouti 400 



Polyacanthopus 25 



mantispoides . 26 



Polyacanthus operculatus 134 



Polycodium stamineum 118 



Polygvra matermontana jaliscoen- 



sis 192 



ventrosula 192 



Polyodon spathula 398 



Pomatomus saltatrix 386 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus. . 386, 390 



Pomotis gibbosus. . 387, 388, 390, 391 



Pomoxis sparoides 387, 398 



Porichthys notatus 402 



Prionotus tribulus 397 



Prisopus horstokkii 239 



Prolabia unidentata 348 



Promicrops guttatus 396 



Proscopia scabra 244 



Psalis americana 338 



Pseudobagrus taiwanensis 121 



Pseudopleuronectes arnericanus. . . 390 



Pseudorasljora parva 128 



Ptychocheilus grandis 401 



Puntius snyderi 127 



Pupa pearliensis 362 



thaanumi 362 



Purex f ormosus 340 



Pycnopalpa bicordata 270 



rulnginosa 270 



Pygidicrana bivittata 337 



Pyragra brasiliensis 338 



fuscata 338 



Pyragropsis paraguayensis 338 



Pyrola americana 97 



elliptica 97 



secunda 98 



Pyxidanthera barbulata 108 



Raja binoculata 400 



eglanteria 390 



ocellata 386 



Rasborinus 130 



formosae 131 



takakii 130 



Rhinichthys atronasus 388 



Rhinogobius candidus 134 



formosanus 134 



giurinus 134 



taiwanus 134 



Rhododendron maximum.. . . 100, 119 



Rhombodera .52, 63, 66 



basalis 68 



extensicollis 67 



saussurei 69 



stalii 67 



valida 68 



Rhomboderella 52 



Rhomboderula 52, 63, 66 



Rissoina striatula hawaiensis. . . . 321 



Roccus lineatus 386, 391 



Roxaniella 370 



Russelia 147 



colombiana 186 



Salmo formosanus 120 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



409 



Salvelinus f ontinalis 398 



Sarda sarda 395 



Scaphesthes tamusiensis 125 



Scaphiodontella 125 



alticorpus 126 



Scaphirhynchus platorynchus .... 398 



Scaphura nigra 257 



Scapteriscus vicinus 283 



Sceptuchus 27 



simplex 28 



Schilbeodes gyrinus 389, 398 



insignis 387 



Schist ophragma 146, 165 



pusilla 165 



Schizaea pusilla 116 



Sciaenops ocellatus 386 



Scolodonta zeteki 195 



Scoliodon terrse-novse 394 



Scombermorus maculatus 395 



Scoparia 145, 159 



dulcis 159 



Scorpajnichthys marmoratus 402 



Sebastodes elongatus 402 



paucispinus 402 



Selar crumenophthalmus 395 



Selene vomer 395 



Semotilus atromaculatus 387, 397, 398 



bullaris 386 



Seriola dorsalis 402 



Seserinus paru 387, 391, 395 



Sicyopterus japonicus 134 



Siphonaria amara 379 



crebricostata 379 



f uniculata 379 



normalis 379 



nuttalli 379 



Sistrum vitiense 319 



Skalistes inopinata 352 



lugubris 351 



Smaragdinella viridis 363 



Solecardia bryani 324 



chascax 326 



hawaiensis 324 



h. obesior 325 



stigmatica 325 



thaanumi 326 



Sparatha semirufa 349 



Spathalium klugi 245 



Sphodropoda quinquedens 48 



tristis 47 



Sphyrna zygaena 386 



Spinibarbus elongatus 127 



hollandi 127 



Spongovostox asemus 344 



berlandi 343 



Statilia maculata 48 



nemoralis 48 



Stemodia.... . 145, 159 



durantifolia 159 



Stenomantis novae-guineae 130 



Stenopus guildingi 3 



Stereolepis gigas 402 



Stilpnochlora marginclla 257 



Stizostedion canadensc 398 



vitreum 398 



Stoastoma domingensis 206 



Stomatella concinna inconcinna. . . 380 



Streptostyla viridula 3 



Strombus ostergaardi 320 



Strongylura notata 395 



timucu 395 



Stylif er def ormis hawaiensis 296 



d. remotissimus 297 



mittrei 297 



robustus 299 



thaanumi 298 



Subulina octona 5 



Succinea guatemalensis 6 



recisa 6 



Tagalomantis 38 



manillensis 38 



Tanusia angulata-ocellata 277 



Taranichthys filamentosus 402 



Tautoga onitis 387 



Tenodera aridif olia 50 



attenuata 51 



blanchardi 51 



sinensis 50 



Terebra argus brachygyra 304 



clappi 306 



dussumieri hiradoensis 309 



flavofasciata 306 



lanceata oahuensis 307 



langf ordi 303 



medipacifica 308 



m. melior 308 



peasei 304 



spaldingi 308 



thaanumi 305 



verreauxi 307 



waikikiensis 305 



Tetrapturus mitsukurii 402 



Thecodonta (?) symmetrica 327 



Theopompa burmeisteri 18 



Theopompula ocularis 18 



Theopropus elegans 81 



Thespis.. 37 



Thesprotia f uscipennis 229 



Thunnus thynnus 401 



Thysanophora' textilis 196 



Topana cincticornis 271 



Torenia 146, 163 



Crustacea 163 



thouarsii 163, 164 



t. nivea 163, 164 



Torpedo californica 400 



Trachinotus carolinus 387, 389 



f alcatus 395 



Trachymiopteryx 220 



tuberculata 220 



Tropidomantis tenera 21 




410 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Uberaba brevicauda 251 



Umbra limi 398 



pygmaea 386, 389 



Unanuea 145, 160 



dentata 161 



TJncanc3'clus ameliae 9 



calverti 7 



Vaccinium atrococcum 107 



corymbosum 107 



erythrocarpum 108 



macrocarpon 108 



oxycoccos 108 



pennsylvanicum 106, 118 



stamineum 106 



vacillans 107 



Vandellia 146, 162 



diffusa 162 



Vanikoro hawaiensis 373 



kanakarum 374 



Vexilla thaanumi 372 



Vexillum micra 317 



thaanumi 316 



turben kanaka 318 



xenium 317 



Volvatella fragilis 375 



Vomer setapinnis 395 



Vostox punctipennis 342 



Xanthomantis flava 24, 26 



Xiphidion rupestre 402 



Xolisma ligustrina 102 



Zacco pachycephalus 130 



platypus 130 



temminckii 130 



Zalembius rosaceus 402 



Zoniopoda collaris 246 



fissicauda 246 



Zonitoides bregyi 203 



hoffmanni 5 




1920.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



411 



GENERAL INDEX 



1920 



Ashhurst, Astlev P. C, elected a mem- 

 ber, 83. 



Bartram, Edward B., elected a mem- 

 ber, 295. 



Beach, W. S., elected a member, 112. 



Biddle, W. Lvman, announcement of 

 death of, 295 



Bower, Frank B., elected a member, 

 83. 



Bower, Charles P., elected a member, 

 112. 



Bradley, Thomas, announcement of 

 death of, 112. 



Bradshaw, Hamilton, elected a mem- 

 ber, 1. 



Brown, John A., Jr., announcement of 

 death of, 11. 



Brown, T. Wistar, 3rd, elected a mem- 

 ber,- 83. 



Buckenham, J. E. B., elected a mem- 

 ber, 1. 



Cadwalader, John, 3rd, elected a mem- 

 ber, 295. 



Carpenter, A. Sidney, announcement 

 of death of, 11 



Chamberlin, Thomas Chrowder, 

 awarded Hayden Memorial Medal, 

 11. 



Cheston, D. Murray, announcement of 

 death of, 1. 



Colton, Salvin W., Jr., elected a mem- 

 ber, 1. 



Committee on Policy, 1. 



Crawley, Howard. Statistical obser- 

 vations on the Texas fever parasite, 

 331. 



Dixon, Edwin S., announcement of 

 death of, 1. 



DuPont, Francis I., elected a member, 

 295. 



Erskine, Richard, elected a member, 

 295. 



Fernald, Merritt Lyndon, elected a 

 correspondent, 112. 



Figaniere, Alfonso de, announcement of 

 death of, 384. 



Fowler, Henry W. Description of a 

 new cyprinoid fish (Notropis stonei) 

 with notes on other fishes obtained 

 in the United States, 385. 



Fox, Joseph M., announcement of 

 death of, 11. 



Frick, Childs, elected a member, 1. 



Gadow, Hans Friedrich. elected a cor- 

 respondent, 112. 



Gibson, Rebecca, announcement of 

 death of, 1. 



Gordon, Samuel G., elected a member, 

 295. Ordovician basalts and quartz 

 diabases in Lebanon County, Penn- 

 sylvania, 354. 



Grant, James E., announcement of 

 death of, 83. 



Haines, Reuben, announcement of 

 death of, 83. 



narrower, David E., elected a member 

 1. 



Hayden Memorial Award, Committee 

 on, 1. Report of Committee, 11. 



Hebard, Morgan. American Dermap- 

 tera of the Museum National d' His- 

 toire Naturelle, Paris, France, 337. 

 Studies in Malayan, Papuan, and 

 Australian Mantidaj, 14. 



Hepburn, Joseph, elected a member, 

 112. 



Keeley, F. J. Additional note on the 

 Deal meteorite, 358. 



Lotsy, Joharm Paul, elected a corre- 

 spondent, 112. 



Lovering, Joseph G., elected a mem- 

 ber, 83. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith, announce- 

 ment of death of, 295. 



McDaniel, W. G., elected a member, 

 13. 



McFadden, J. Franklin, elected a mem- 

 ber, 83. 



MacDougal, Daniel Trembly, elected 

 a correspondent, 112. 



McKean, Thomas, elected a member, 

 112. 



Mason, Frank R., elected a member, 

 112. 



Matos, William W., elected a member, 

 1. 



Meredith, Hugh Bradshaw, elected a 

 member, 13. 



Monks, Sarah P. Notes on Arach- 

 noidiscus, 207. 




412 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Morris, Lawrence J., elected a mem- 

 ber, 83. 



Munro, Hugh F., elected a member, 

 83. 



Nolan, Edward J., Recording Secre- 

 tary Emeritus, 383. 



Officers, Councillors, and Committee 

 on Accounts, 383. 



Oshima, Masamitsu. Notes on fresh- 

 water fishes of Formosa, with de- 

 scriptions of new genera and species, 

 120. Two new cyprinoid fishes from 

 Formosa, 189. 



Osier, William, announcement of death 

 of, 1. 



Pearl, Raymond, elected a correspond- 

 ent, 112. 



Peary, Robert E., announcement of 

 death of, 83. 



Pennell, Francis W. Scrophulariaceae 

 of Colombia — I. 



Pennock, Naomi, elected a member, 

 112. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Costa Rican land 

 and freshwater mollusks, 2. Marine 

 mollusks of Hawaii, yill-XIII, 296. 

 A Colombian pupillid snail. 329. 

 Marine mollusks of Hawaii, XIV, 

 XV, 360. Mollusks from Lake Cha- 

 pala. State of Jalisco, and vicinity, 

 192. Mollusca from Central Amer- 

 ica and Mexico. 195. 



Potter, Julian K., elected a member, 

 295. 



Ramborger, William K., announcement 

 of death of, 11. 



Rehn, James A. G. Records and de- 

 scriptions of Brazilian Orthoptera, 

 214. 



Ritter, William Emerson, elected a 

 correspondent, 112. 



Roland, Conrad K., elected a member, 

 13. 



Rush, Benjamin, elected a member, 

 13. 



Schaus, William, elected a correspond- 

 ent, 112. 



Sclater, William Lutley, elected a cor- 

 respondent. 112. 



Scott, Wilham Berryman, elected a 

 correspondent, 112. 



Search, Theodore C, announcement of 

 death of, 384. 



Spencer, Arthur R., elected a mem- 

 ber, 1. 



Steckbeck, D. W., elected a member, 

 295. 



Stellwagen, Thomas C, announcement 

 of death of, 11. 



Stewart, George H., 3rd. elected a 

 member, 13. 



Stewart, Henry Carlisle, elected a 

 member, 13. 



Stikeman, Henry F. C, elected a mem- 

 ber, 295. 



Street, J. Fletcher, elected a member, 

 112. 



Tobias, C. E., Jr., elected a member, 

 13. 



Trudell, Harry W., elected a mem- 

 ber, 1. 



True, Rodney H., elected a member, 

 295. 



Tyler, George F., elected a member, 

 13. 



Vanatta, E. G. New land shells, 203. 



Wardle, H. Newell. Iron ore artifacts 

 from Alabama, 209. 



Welsh, Robert F., elected a member, 

 13. 



Wetherill, William Chatten, elected a 

 member, 295. 



Wherry, Edgar T. Observations on 

 the soil acidity of Ericaceae and 

 associated plants in the middle At- 

 lantic states, 84. Correlation be- 

 tween vegetation and soil acidity in 

 southern New Jersey, 113. 



Windrim, James H., announcement of 

 death of, 112. 



Wood, Edward R., Jr., elected a mem- 

 ber, 83. 



Wood, Horatio C, announcement of 

 death of, 1. 



Woolman, Anna, elected a member, 

 112. 



Woolman, Edward, elected a member, 

 13. 






MBI. WHOI LIBRARY 



UH IflS 



L L 





