



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume Llll 



1901 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1901-1902 




■v 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



March 29, 1902. 



I hereby certif}' that printed copies 

 been presented to the meetings of the 



of the Proceedings for 1901 have 

 Academy and mailed as follows : — 



Pa2;es 1 to 16 mailed March 



17 to 128 

 129 to 1()0 

 161 to 208 

 209 to 256 

 257 to 272 

 273 to 304 

 305 to 320 

 821 to 368 

 369 to 400 

 401 to 448 

 449 to 480 

 481 to 496 

 497 to 512 

 513 to 544 

 545 to 608 

 609 to 640 

 641 to 656 

 657 to 704 

 705 to 752 



27, 

 3, 



13, 

 2, 



7, 

 9, 



April 



April 



]\ray 



M&y 



^lay 



June 



June 



July 



August 



August 



September 3, 



September 16, 



October 29, 



November 23, 



January 23, 



February 6, 



March 1, 



March 17, 



March 25, 



25, 

 31, 

 16, 

 22, 



1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1901 

 1902 

 1902 

 1902 

 1902 

 1902 



presented April 

 April 

 April 

 May 

 May 

 May 

 June 

 June 

 August 

 August 

 August 



2, 1901. 

 2, 1901. 

 16. 1901. 

 7, 1901. 

 7, 1901. 

 14, 1901. 

 11, 1901. 

 25, 1901. 

 6, 1901. 

 20, 1901. 

 27, 1901. 

 September 3, 1901. 

 September 24, 1901. 

 October 29, 1901. 

 November 26, 1901. 

 January 28, 1902. 

 February 11,1902. 

 March 4, 1902. 



March 18, 1902. 

 March 25, 1902. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



COIVIMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., riiiLir T. Calvert, Ph.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D., 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., ex-officio. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



7 / 7 J 




CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



Aaron, Carrie B. Biographical Notice of Robert Henry 



Lamborn (with Portrait), 486 



Banks, Nathan. Some Arachnida from New Mexico 



(Plate XXXIII), 568 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. A Review of the Genera and 



Species of American Snakes Noi'th of Mexico, . 10 

 On Some Points in the Phylogeuy of the Primates, . . 119 

 A New Species of Coluber from Western Texas (Plate 



XXIX), 492 



A New Species of Ophibolus fi'om Western Texas 



(Plate XXXIV), 612 



Casey, Thomas L. On the Probable Age of the Alabama 



White Limestone, 513 



Chapman, Henry C. Observations upon the Placenta and 



Young of Dasypus sexcinctus (Plate XVIII), . 366 

 CocKERELL, T. D. A. Descriptions of New Bees Col- 

 lected by Mr. H. H. Smith in Brazil, II, . . . 216 



FiELDE, Adele M. a Study of an Ant, 425 



Further Study of an Ant, . - 521 



Fowler, Henry W. Note on the Odontostomidre, . . . 211 



Description of a New Hemiramphid 293 



Fishes from Caroline Islands, 324 



Types of Fishes (Plates XII, XIII, XIV, XV), . . 327 

 Myctophum phengodes in the North Atlantic, . . . 620 

 Fox, Henry. The Development of t he Tympano-Eustachian 

 Passage and Associated Structures in the Common 

 Toad (Bufo lentiginosus) (Plates VI, VII, VIII, 



IX), 223 



i 




11 



Goldsmith, Edwakd. A Quick Method of Testing for 



Gold, . 550 



GuDE, G. K. Descriptions of New Helicoid Land Shells 



from Japan, 017 



Harsiibergkk, John W. The Limits of Variation in 



Plants, 303 



An Ecological Sketch of the Flora of Santo Domingo 



(Plates XXXr, XXXII), 554 



Cockscomb Fasciation of Pineapples^, 609 



Heath, Harold, and M. H. Spaulding. Cymbuliopsis 



vitrea, a New Species of Pteropod, 509 



HiGGiNS, Helen T. The Development and Comparative 

 Structure of the Gizzard of the Odonata Zygop- 

 tera (Plates II, III, IV), " . . 126 



JoHXSOX, C. W., and A. W, Grabau. A New Species 



of Clavilithes from the Eocene of Texas, . . . 602 



Keeley, Frank J. Structure of Diatoms, 321 



Keller, Ida A. Demonstration that Plants give off Oxy- 

 gen, 320 



A Peculiar Condition of CEdogouium, 598 



Kraemer, Henry. CrystaUine and Crystalloidal Sub- 

 stances and their Relation to Plant Structure, . . 450 



Lyman. Benjamin Smith. Lodel Creek and Skippack 



Creek, 604 



Meehan, Thomas. Biographical Notice of Charles East- 

 wick Smith, .... 4 



Contributions to the Life-History of Plants, XV: The 

 Bending of Mature Wood in Trees (Plates XVI, 

 XVII), 354 



Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr. '" Further Studies of the 

 Chromosomes of the Hemiptera Heteroptera 



(Plate X), 261 



The Identity of the Gordiacean Species, Chordodes 



Morgani and C. puerilis (Plate XI), .... 289 

 Peculiarities of the Terrestrial Larva of the Urodelous 

 Batrachiau, Plethodon cinereus Green (Plate 

 XXX), 503 




Ill 



Ortmann, a. E. Crustacea and Pycnogonida Collected 

 duriag the Priucetou Expedition to North Green- 

 land, 144 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Crustacea of the Cretaceous Forma- 

 tion of New Jersey (Plate I), Ill 



Relationships of the Genus Neobeliscus, l42 



New Species of Mollusks from South Africa and Burma, 188 

 New Mollusca from Japan, the Loo Choo Islands, For- 

 mosa and the Philippines, 193 



New Land Mollusca from Japan and the Loo Choo 



Islands, 344 



New Japanese Marine. Land and Fresh-water Mollusca 



(Plates XIX, XX, XXI), . 385 



The Land Mollusks of the Loo Choo Islands: Clau- 



siliidre (Plates XXII, XXIII), 424 



Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, IV 



(Plates XXV, XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII), . . 465 

 Notices of New Land Snails from the Japanese Empire, 496 

 New Land MoUusks of the Japanese Empire, .... 545 



Fasciolaria gigantea subsp. reevei, 552 



New Land Mollusks of the Japanese Empire, . . . 562 

 New Land Mollusca of the Japanese Empire, . . . 614 

 Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, V 

 (Plates XXXV, XXXVI, XXXVII, XXXVIII, 



XXXIX), 622 



Catalogue of the Clausiliidse of the Japanese Empire, . 647 

 Rankin, Walter M. Echinoderms Collected off the West 

 Coast of Greenland by the Princeton Arctic Expe- 

 dition of 1899, 169 



Reese, Albert ]M. The Nasal Passages of the Florida 



Alligator (Plate XXIV), 457 



Rehn, James A. G. The Forficulidse, Blattidae, Mantid?e 

 and Phasmidse Collected in Northeast Africa by 



Dr A. Donaldson Smith, 273 



A Study of the Genus Centurio, 295 



The Acrididie, Tettigonidse and Gryllidie Collected by 



Dr. A. Donaldson Smith in Northeast Africa, . . 370 

 Rhoads, S. N. On the Common Brown Bats of Peninsu- 

 lar Florida and Southern Cahfornia, 618 




Sharp, Benjamin. The Food of the Cod, 2 



Stone, Witmer. Occurrence of Hyla andersonii at Clem- 



entoii, N. J., 342 



Thompson, Caroline Burling. Zygeupolia literal is, a 



New Heteronemertean (Plates XL, XLI, XLII, 



XLIII, XLIV), 657 



Vanatta, Edward G. New Marine MoUusks (Plate V), 182 

 Vaux, George and William S., Jr. Observations Made 



in 1900 oil Glaciers iu British Columbia, . . . 213 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1901. 



January 1. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D. , iu the Chair 



Ten persons present. 



Tlie Council reported that the following Standing Committees 

 had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: 



On Library. — Dr. C. K Peirce, Thomas A. Robinson, Henry 

 C. Chapman, M.D., Charles Schaeffer, M.D., George Vaux, Jr. 



On Publications. — Thomas Meehau, Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., EdAvard J. 

 Nolan, M.D. 



On Instruction. — Uselma C. Smith, Benjamin Smith Lyman, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Charles 

 Morris. 



On Finance. — Isaac J. Wistar, William Sellers, Charles 

 Roberts, John Cadwalader and the Treasurer. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Isaac J. Wistar, 

 Theodoi'e D. Rand, Arthur Erwin Brown and Charles Roberts. 




2 proceedings of the academy of [jan.^ 



January 8. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



The death of Baron Edmond de Selys-Longchamps, a corre- 

 spondent, was announced. 



The Food of the Cod. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp called attention 

 to some observations he had made last fall on the contents of the 

 stomaclis of the common Cod. Several hundred stomachs were 

 opened with the hope of finding shells of gastropods and bivalves. 

 Kumerous valuable shells had been taken from the Cod years ago 

 by Stimpson and Gould on the New England coast, north of Cape 

 Cod, and it was supposed that similar finds would come to light 

 from the Cod caught off Nantucket. The stomachs examined 

 were filled almost exclusively with crustaceans and for the most 

 part with species of Panojjeiis. Hermit crabs, Avithout shells, and 

 a few Crepidulte Avere also seen. Here and there young lobsters 

 were found in the stomachs, occasionally two in one stomach. In 

 one Cod, weighing about thirty-five pounds, pieces of a lobster were 

 found which, when placed together, indicated that tlie })ossessor 

 was about eleven inches in length. 



The Cod examined were all taken off the eastern end of the 

 island, between the town of Siasconset and a place called Wawinet, 

 where the tide (current) runs at a maximum of about six miles 

 an hour. The bottom consists of coarse sand and is probably 

 shifting, and consequently not a good bed for mollusks, the only 

 food for the Cod found there being crustacean. 



Dr. Sharp supposed that the decrease in quantity of the lobsters, 

 which has been so marked within the past few years, is partly due 

 to their consumption by the Cod; and as these have of late greatly 

 increased in numbers, owing to the work of the United States Fish 

 Commission, the lobsters have not been able to keeji pace with the 

 increase of their enemies. 



January 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 




1901.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 3 



January 22. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The death of Gustav Hartlaub, a correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " On Some Points in the Phylogeny of the Primates," by 



Arthur Erwin Brown. 



" The Development and Comparative Structure of the Gizzard 



in the Odonata zygoptera," by Helen T. Higgins. 



January 29, 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



William F. Dreer, James Eorer, and W. ^7orrell Wagner were 

 elected members. 



H. R. H. Albert I, Sovereign Prince of Monaco, was elected a 

 correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




PlIOCKEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JaU , 



BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF CHARLES EASTWICK SMITH. 

 BY inOMAS MEEIIAN. 



Appoinled to prepare a incnioir of our late fellow-meniber, 

 Charles E. Smith, the author feels strongly a difficulty he has 

 experienced on similar occasions. The members of the Academy 

 meet for mutual improvement and study. The various subjects 

 in 'which they take interest become the chief topics of conver- 

 sation. They know little of the outside life of one another. A tree 

 is to be known only by its fruit. As it grows through successive 

 years it appears much like other trees, and no note is taken of the 

 incidents of its growth ; but Avhen the harvest time arrives, and 

 all are in praise of the bountiful crop, carrying pleasure and profit 

 around it in every direction, a natural desire arises to know more of 

 the details of such a happy career, — a desire that can only be sat- 

 isfied by recalling circumstances imperfectly remembered, or that 

 have but little bearing on the character w'e would illustrate. 



So when the subject of this memoir passed away few of his asso- 

 ciates could aid the author. All knew that he was one of Phila- 

 delphia's most prominent citizens ; ihat he had been at the head 

 of some of its great business bodies ; that he had been largely 

 concerned with the city's good name and progress; that he had 

 long been a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phil- 

 adelphia, especially interested in botany and kindred subjects, a 

 liberal contributor through the greater part of his life to its build- 

 ing funds, its collections and general progress, and that on his 

 death it was found that he had generously provided for its future 

 out of his rich estate. But few knew more than all knew. In- 

 deed, but for aid from Dr. Edward J. Nolan and Dr. Thomas C. 

 Porter the author would have been left solely to his own recollec- 

 tions and the replies to letters of inquiry sent to friends of our 

 departed associate for material for his task. 



His full name was Charles Eastwick Smith— Eastwick being the 

 maiden name of his grandmother. He was the second of that 

 name in the family, the first dyine: before he was born. His 




1901.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. O 



Philadelphia ancestors were amnug the original party with William 

 Penn and, like the founder of the city, strong believers in the 

 doctrines of the Society of Friends. Little can be learned of his 

 early life. He was born November 1, 1820, and seems to have 

 had especial care and oversight from his mother, to whom he Avas 

 deeply devoted through life, and by whose side in Laurel Hill Ceme- 

 tery he was placed Avhen his own time of rest arrived. He proba- 

 bly received his rudimentary education in Philadelphia, and at the 

 age of fifteen was sent to the boarding-school of Westtown, near 

 this city. It was here, as he related to his friend Dr. Porter, that 

 he acquired his fondness for botany, through the influence of one 

 of the instructors. He remained here three years, when he became 

 attached to an engineer corps, engaged to survey for a railroad from 

 Blossburg to Corning, in New York. He became the superinten- 

 dent of the railroad, and later of the Bloomsburg coal mines, 

 though he had scarcely attained his majority He returned to 

 Philadelphia in 1842, and established the Fairmouut Rolling Mill. 

 This was not a financial success, from the fact, as he believed, 

 that cooperation throughout the whole iron trade was needed to 

 place the industry on a firm footing. He sold it out in 1846. 



About this period an event occurred that had a material influ- 

 ence on his future life. In 1844 a fierce antagonism to Roman 

 Catholicism arose. A number of churches were burned. The 

 ^Nlayor called on all able-bodied citizens to arm in defense of law 

 and order. " The Quaker youth Avent out with a cane, but in the 

 excitement of the riot some one put a musket in his hands, and 

 he patroled the streets with it for seven nights. For this violation 

 of the principle of non-resistance he Avas called on to express 

 regret, and to give a pi-omise of strict conformity to the rule 

 thereafter. Believing himself harshly treated, he refused to do 

 so and Avas expelled from the Society. He at once dropped the 

 garb and language of the Friends and associated with other 

 bodies. He never married, and if the event detailed had aught to 

 do Avith the fact, the secret Avas faithfully kept to the last. 



For a short time subsequent to 1846 he became manager of the 

 Rensselaer Iron Works, at Troy, N. Y. , in Avhich railroad iron 

 Avas being manufactured. He returned to Philadelphia in 1849, 

 to inaugurate a convention of iron men. The poverty of the con- 

 stituency forced the association to be content with inferior printing 




6 PEOCEELINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



aud paper foi- its report. lu a letter to a friend he says: " Mr. 

 Colville told me we must go over the State and get the interest of 

 every iron-maker. I asktd him for money to pay my exptmses. 

 He said I must beg it, as he had none. ' You must ask for con- 

 tributions as you go along.' I started with $5. Sometimes I got 

 a wagon, sometimes a horse ride, sometimes on foot — sometimes I 

 got fifty cents. In one case 1 got 810. I saw them all, came 

 back with between S200 and $300, and the American Iron and 

 Steel Association became a flourishing body.'' He traveled 2,500 

 miles on this mission. 



There seems nothing on record as to his occupation for the suc- 

 ceeding ten years, but in a letter to a friend he remarks that he 

 attended faithfully to his office work during the day and employed 

 his evenings in studying and classifyiuec the plants collected on 

 Sunday. 



In le61 he was elected to the presidency of the Reading Rail- 

 road Company. From a comparatively local and almost bankrupt 

 organization, he raised it to one of broad interest and a good divi- 

 dend-paying concern — so profitable that in the trying times of the 

 beginning of the civil war his company loaned the Government 

 two millions and a half of dollars. In 1869 it stood in prosperity 

 second to none in the country. 



His health broke down. His medical adviser urged his resigna- 

 tion and suggested several things he might do At length the 

 physician, in a peculiar way, remarked that he had " better go to 

 grass." The joke had a good effect. He took the advice literally, 

 resigned, and turned to botany for consolation. He still retained 

 his position on the Board of Directors. On the 18th of April, 

 1869, he sailed on the " Scotia " for an extended tour of Europe, 

 during which botanical study was his chief recreation, although 

 he deeply enjoyed all that Avould interest a broad-minded man of 

 aflfairs. He lelurned on the loth of September, 1870. 



Some years later he discovered that the great railroad company 

 that had been the pride of his life, was bankrupt under the man- 

 agement of his successor in the presidency. The effect on his 

 health was seriously depressing. By night, as by day, the rail- 

 road was ever in his mind. While greatly troubled by insomnia, 

 he was requested by the Secretary of the Academy to read the 

 proof-sheets of a botanical paper in course of publication. To his 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



surprise he found that the mental application required for proof- 

 reading was an excellent remedy for his sleeplessness. The applica- 

 tion required for the task di'ove out thoughts of the railroad's dis- 

 aster. He begged for more, both fi'om the Academy and fi'om 

 friends, and the greater part of his subsequent life was devoted, 

 as one of the best means for preserving health, to his favorite 

 occupation of proof-reading. 



Though not courting favors, he was highly esteemed by his 

 fellow-citizens. For two successive years, 1877 and 1878, he 

 was elected president of the Union League — one of the most 

 enviable of Philadelphia's social positions. 



His eminently practical character has been well illustrated by 

 the reference to his journey through the State in the interests of 

 the iron men, and by the details of his railroad affairs. He car- 

 ried this quality into all his transactions. His close friend, Prof. 

 T. C. Porter, relates that on a trip with him, Aubrey H. Smith 

 and Dr. Joseph Leidy, in July and August, 1865, to Lake Supe- 

 rior, they were much amused by his practical test of the truth of 

 the Abbe Hue's statement that cow " cake " was better for kind- 

 ling, but that horse " apples " Avere better for holding heat in a 

 fire. The result proved the correctness of Abbe Hue's assertion. 

 Dr. Porter further notes, as illustrative of the tendency to draw 

 valuable conclusions from little things, that one of the party, 

 having placed over the fire a branch of a spruce tree to aid in 

 extinguishing it. Smith noted how the turpentine oozed from the 

 twigs, flashed into a blaze and sent up as incense a cloud of 

 fragrant white' smoke. 



With all his love of facts, he was not devoid of sentiment. 

 His private correspondence discloses an active interest in the good 

 of others of which the world will never know. Few have suc- 

 ceeded so well in preventing the left hand from knowing what the 

 right hand was doing. His selection of a burial place in Laurel 

 Hill Cemetery for his mother, on a spot that commanded the most 

 delightful views of the Schuylkill and the surroundings, is a strik- 

 ing testimony to his depth of sentiment. 



We have already seen how he was early brought into a love for 

 botany at the boarding-schocl. He was elected a member of the 

 Academy in 1851, and served in some of the administrative offices 

 until his death. He was appointed on the Publication Committee 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



in 1892, in Avliich position he rendered especially valuable service. 

 He served on the Finance Committee from December, 1890, and 

 was one of the Council from May, 1891. At the time of his 

 death he was, and had been for a number of years, Vice-Director 

 of the Botanical Section. 



His influence on American botany, and on American science 

 generally, was exerted in such a quiet way that its full im- 

 portance will never be appreciated. His critical mind led him 

 to prefer • difficult subjects; hence carices, grasses and rushes 

 had especial charms for him. He could readily see what others 

 failed to observe, and ho became an authority on these subjects. 

 While in the midst of his heavy labors in reconstructing the rail- 

 road company, he was in active correspondence with Boott, Olney, 

 Engelmaun and other specialists in the study of these difficult 

 genera. Pie rather prided himself on going over oft-trodden 

 ground and noting what others failed to see. By his persistency 

 with Dr. Gray he finally induced this great botanist to recognize 

 two new species from oft-explored localities in New Jersey, Avhich 

 he named Scirpus Smlthii and Lobelia Canbyi, and this after 

 he had failed to satisfy Boott and Olney of the distinctness of the 

 forms. In explanation of his persistency he tells a friend, " When 

 there seems to be reason for my sentiments, I must express them 

 or die." In a letter to a friend, dated October 15, 1807, he 

 remarks, "At ]\Ioosehead Lake I also got Grcvphephorum melicoides 

 and Aspidium fragrans, heretofore only known as Western plants. 

 It is a comfort to penetrate the hub of the universe and make the 

 natives acquainted with their own plants. One feels good — that 

 is to say, much like a missionary." 



Apart from the beneficent influence the concentration required 

 by good proof-reading had in counteracting insomnia, it was 

 through his chosen work as proof-reader that he has left his 

 impress, especially on botanical literature. He begged his friends, 

 as a privilege, to permit him to read proofs for them. In the 

 course of such work the contributions of his botanical friends 

 underwent his ci'itical scrutiny; and the authors received the bene- 

 fit of his watchful care. The corrections Avould often be clothed 

 in dry humor. He once wrote to Dr. Gray on the issuance of a 

 new edition of his Manual, " Have you observed from Gray's 

 Manual that Solidar/o altissima grows only two to seven inches 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADEEI'IIIA. 9 



high ?" The remarkable accuracy that marks the botanical 

 labors of the last quarter of a century is in a great measui'e due to 

 the impulse given to extra care by Charles E. Smith, The last 

 edition of Leidy's Elementary Treatise on Human Anatomy, 

 although carefully read by the author, would have described a 

 certain process of the brain as the " Hippopotamus " — instead of 

 the Hippocampus — minor, had it not been for Smith's supervision. 

 It is not only in the superior accuracy of the literature of botany 

 and allied studies that science is indebted to our friend. He was 

 ever ready tfith encouragement for all botanical enterprises, and 

 especially in the case of younger students. He took an especially 

 warm interest in the establishment of the Ladies' Botanical Club 

 of Syracuse, N. Y. , aiding the society by advice and material. 



The ablest leaders relied on his judgment. Before the appearance 

 of one of the editions of his Manual, Dr. Gray proposed extend- 

 ing the area covered by it. The question was left to Mr. Smith, 

 who decided adversely. He believed in thorough work, and held 

 that this was favored by concentration rather than diffusion of 

 effort. In this spirit he commenced a herbarium of the plants 

 growing within fifteen miles of Philadelphia. This collection he 

 bequeathed to the Academy, and it is regarded as a masterpiece of 

 accurate labor. Every locality is exactly noted, and in every case 

 the existence of the plant on the spot was verified by a personal 

 examination, its identity being carefully ascertained. 



The Recording Secretary of the Academy, whose official rela- 

 tions brought him into intimate communication Avith Mr. Smith, 

 remarks in reply to a note of inquiry : 



" Although he Avas not a frequent visitor to the xA-cademy, he 

 impressed me in the early years of his connection Avith it as a man 

 of singular directness and personal force. A tone of command 

 and authority, resonant voice, clear enunciation, and erect bearing 

 conveyed the idea of perfect mental poise and a habit of rather 

 directing than of conferring with his associates — but all this with- 

 out a suspicion of arrogance or superciliousness." 



He died on Sunday, the 15th of April, 1900, in the eightieth 

 year of his age. The Academy, proud of its contributors to the 

 advancement of knowledge among mankind, places with them in 

 grateful remembrance the name of Charles Eastwick Smith. 




10 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juu , 



A REVIEW OF THE GENERA AND SPECIES OF AMERICAN SNAKES, 

 NORTH OF MEXICO. 



BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



In recent years, investigation of the lower groups in classifica- 

 tion has largely taken the form of observing and noting the most 

 minute variations, occurring in however small numbers. Among 

 snakes, this method has lieen carried to such an extreme that 

 Prof. Cope's " Characters and Variations of North American 

 Snakes " ^ contains the names of twenty-three species and subspe- 

 cies which were founded upon one, or at most two specimens each. 



Two propositions, both fundamentally correct, have contributed 

 to this result: first, that a knowledge of the laws under which new 

 forms are developed is to be ])est gained by a study of variations ; 

 and second, that subspecies are an essential part of classification. 

 As a general truth the first proposition is unassailable, but there 

 appear to be good reasons why limits should be placed upon its 

 application to the present group and why a cautious valuation 

 should here be made of minor variations. This should be true if 

 it can be shown that unmeaning departures from type are especi- 

 ally common among its members. 



It is a law of organisms that a high degree of instability is 

 associated with degenerative processes. That the serpents, as a 

 whole, are a degenerate group is probable, and while some lines 

 among them have become much specialized, there are large num- 

 bers of small and degraded forms, always highly variable, which 

 can be connected with higher types. 



It is, furthermore, a moi'phological fact that where repetition of 

 parts is the rule, variability, in number at least, is to be looked 

 for.'^ Among snakes, generic and specific characters are chiefly 



' Proc. U. S. National Museum, 1892, pp. 589-684. 



* A very simple summary of a long series of observed facts is contained iu 

 Bateson's Materials for the Study of Variation, p. 571 (London, 1894): ''It 

 is perhaps true that, on the whole, series containing large numbers of undif- 

 ferentiated parts more often show Meristic Variation than series made up of 

 a few parts much differentiated, l)i]t throughout the evidence a good many 

 of the latter class are nevertheless to be seen." 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



found in the teeth, in the plates upon the head, and iu the numljer 

 and form of the rows of body scales; all of these are numerous, 

 and variability under the above law is common. 



Color is largely used in specific, and almost wholly in subspecific 

 determination, and this, too, we should expect to find inconstant 

 in a group whose structure is such that the whole exterior is 

 brought into close contact, surface or subterranean, with earth, 

 sometimes swamp and sometimes desert sand, and whose slow 

 metabolism brings such physiological activities as temperature, 

 nutrition and epidermal repair into close dependence upon exter- 

 nal conditions. 



There is, again, a class of anomalies not uncommon in this 

 group, such as are shown^ at times in genera like Coluber or 

 Zamenis, in which the young of some species are spotted or cross- 

 banded, becoming striped when adult. Here, occasionally, more 

 or less of the juvenile pattern is retained, showing through, as it 

 were, the later stage. Examples of such are Coluber guttatus 

 ■sellatus Cope and C. rosaceus Cope. This class of variations is 

 purely physiological, and when occurring in isolated cases, has no 

 more zoological significance than the occasional retenlion to matu- 

 rity of the youthful livery of spots in lions. 



Aside from anomalies, there are characters which are too variable, 

 normally, to be of use except in broad definitions. Form and 

 proportions, both of the whole and of parts, vary considerably; 

 among those which change with growth are the relative length of 

 the tail (which also varies with sex), and the reciprocal propor- 

 tions of some head plates; breadth of head and stoutness of body 

 change to an extraordinary degree with nutritive conditions, a 

 fact which can be best learned by observation of snakes kept in 

 captivity.* 



The system of trinomials has added greatly to the facilities for 

 expressing the relationship of transiti(mal forms, but while its 

 value is fully conceded, so also must be the existence of the danger 

 which has attended and not infrequently overtaken it — that the 

 very ease of its methods may lead the systematist to overvalue the 

 importance of individual and insignificant variations. 



^ A suggestion as to the possible origin of occasional specimens presenting 

 mixed characters, is that among snakes which breed iu captivity there seems 

 to be little orno aversion to cnss-breeding. This is especially true of 

 Eutmnia and Tropklonotus, both of which produce young free from the 

 egg, and breed not infrequently. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The chief purpose of the present paper is to inquire into the 

 nature of these variations, and to determine if possible how far 

 they are promiscuous and without meaning, or to what extent they 

 may be beheved to fall within those ideas of progressive modifica- 

 tion, without which as a guiding principle, the practice of tax- 

 onomy is mere byplay. The conception which has directed the 

 inquiry, is that a relatively high degree of constancy and isolation 

 is essential to the recognition of a species ; and that variations, to 

 be of subspecific value, must be of such a character as to offer 

 reasonable grounds for the belief that they are stages of change; 

 an important pai't of such character being that they shall occur in 

 sufficient numbers to constitute centres, so to speak, upon lines 

 leading from established forms. 



The color descriptions have in a large proportion of cases been 

 taken from the living snake ; to which it may be added that in 

 addition to the alcoholic series to which I have had access, includ- 

 ing that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 which now contains the whole private collection of the late Prof. 

 Cope, nearly four thousand living specimens of North American 

 snakes have passed under my observation, in the course of identify- 

 ing the large amount of material in this group which comes into 

 possession of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia. 



The more recent works w'hich treat with modern methods, of the 

 whole field of North American snakes, are the paper of Prof. Cope, 

 above referred to,"* and Mr. G. A. Boulenger's Catalogue of Snakes 

 in the British Museum (1893-96). 



With neither of these distinguished naturalists am I able to find 

 myself in full accord; the one appearing to mc to err in excess of 

 analysis, quite as much as the other does in the opposing method. 



The literature has been so fully worked out by Mr. Boulenger, 



■* Since the completion of the present paper (October, 1900), the E^po^•t of 

 the U. S. Natiorud MuseurnloT 1898 has appt^ared. containing Prof. Cope's 

 posthumous work on North American sealed reptiles (Serpentes, pp. G83~ 

 1198). I find that few of the conclusions which I bad reached are thereby 

 altered, for the chief additions to his previous paper of 1892 result from the 

 introduction of characters drawn from the male generative organ. Tiiese 

 were not made nse of in the present paper, for examination of much of 

 Cope's material, and some further investigations of my own, had satisfied 

 me that much verification and exteasi(ni remains to be done before their 

 valne in generic determination can be established. Such changes as I have 

 made have been introduced into the text, and references to the paper are 

 given as "Cope, Kep. Nat- Mu'^.,'" "Cope, /.c," indica'^ingthe previous paper, 

 above cited. 




1901.] >'ATUKAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELl'IIIA. 13 



that the references given in this paper are such only as aie neces- 

 sary to historical exactness, being in most cases to the original 

 description ; to the works of Cope and 'Boulenger cited ; to Baird 

 and Girard's Catalogue of North American Siud-es (1853); to 

 some late papers by Mr. Stejneger, and to a valuable paper by 

 Mr. Yan Denburg on the reptiles of the Pacific coast. ^ 



GLAUCONIID^. 

 GLAUCONIA, Grey. 



Cat. Lizards, Br. Mus., 139 (1845); Hoia B. and G., Cat. Serp. No. Am., 

 149 (1853); Glauconia and Renn Cope, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1892, 

 539, 590 ; Glauconia BouL, Cat. Snakes Br. Mus., I, 59. 



No maxillary teeth; rostral large, projecting; one nasal, 

 divided or half-divided and touching the lip; eyes covered with 

 scales; an ocular which reaches the lip; a median row of scales 

 extending to the rostral; body surrounded with cycloid scales; 

 anal entire; body cylindrical; tail short and blunt; head not 

 distinct. 



Hab. — Africa; southwestern Asia; tropical America. 



Two species are known in the United States : 



Supraoculars present, I. G. dulcis. 



Supraoculars absent, 2. G. hmnilis. 



Glauconia dulcis B. and G. 



Rena dulcis B. and G., I. c, 142; Glauconia. dulcis Cope, I. c, 590; 

 Boul., I. c, I, 65 ; Leptotyphlops dulcis Stej., Proc. U. 6. Nat. Mus., 

 1891, 501 ; Glauconia dissecta and G. dulcis Cope, Eep. Nat. Mus., 

 716, 717. 



Size small; two or three pairs of plates in front of frontal; a 

 supraocular plate on each side with a smaller one between them; 

 nasal divided; scales in 14 rows. Length about 200 mm. (tail 

 about one-twentieth). Pale brown above; white on belly. 



G. dissecta Cope, may prove to be distinct, but the inconstancy 

 of the head shields in these low, burrowing forms is a strong j^re- 

 sumption against it. 



Hab. — Texas, New Mexico and Mexico. 



' Occasional Papers of the California Academy of Science, No. 5, 1897. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Glauconia humilis B. and G. 



Rena 7iumiUs B. and G., I. c, 143, aud Cope. I. c, 590; Glauconia 

 kumilis, Boul., I. c, I, .7i>, and Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 719; Rena 

 humilis Stej., I. c, 501 ; Siagonodon humilis Van Den., I. c, 150. 



Like G. chdcis, but no supraoculars ; the oculars being separated 



by one shield instead of three. 



Hab. — Arizona, southern and Lower California; Mexico. 



BOID^. 



LICHANURA Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1861, 304 ; I. c, 590 ; Rep. Nat. Mus., 722 ; Boul., 

 /. c, I, 129. 



Hoad covered with scales; two nasals; no labial pits; eye with 

 vertical pupil; body short and stout; tail short, blunt and slightly 

 pi'ehensile; subcaudals undivided. 



Hab. — Southwestern North America. 



Lichanura roseofusca Cope. 



Proc. Acal. Phila., 1868, 2 ; L. roaeofasca and orcutti Cops, I. c, 591, 

 592, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 724, 7^6 ; L. orcutti Stej. , Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1889, 96 ; L. trieirgata (part) Boul., I. c, I, 129. 



Head slightly distinct; rostral prominent; eye surrounded with 

 a ring of nine or ten scales; anterior nasals in contact; 4-6 small 

 plates behind the nasals, rest of head covered with small scales; 

 body cylindrical; scales small and smooth, in 33-43 rows; ven- 

 trals 224-241; subcaudals 39-47. Total length about 980 mm. 

 (tail 110). 



Grayish or brownish above, sometimes with three rather indis- 

 tinct brown stripes on the body; belly yellowish or reddish, irregu- 

 larly mottled with brown. 



Mr. Stejueger has clearly shown the great variability of scutel- 

 lation in these snakes,* and the very wealth of observation which 

 he brings forward destroys the value of the chief character upon 

 which L. orcutti rests; the presence of an additional loreal. In 

 addition to which is the fact that in the Boiche these plates are so 

 inconstant as to be without classificatory meaning. 



Hab, — Southern California and Arizona. A closely ^^related 

 species, L. trivirgata, is found in Lower California. 



s Proc. IT. S. Nat. Mus., 1891, p. 511. 




1901. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 15 



CHARINA Circy. 

 Cat. Sn. Br. Mus., 113 (1849); Cope, I. c, 592 ; Boul., I. c, I, 130. 



Anterior teeth longest ; head covered with shields ; a frontal 

 plate ; two nasals, eye small with vertical pupil ; tail short, not 

 pi'ehensile; subcaudals undivided, 



Hab. — Western coast of North America. 



Charina bottae Blainville. 



Tortrix bottce Blain., Nouv. Ann., 1834, 57, PI. XXVI, fig. 1; Wenona 

 plumbea and isahella B. and G., I. c, 139, 140 ; Charina botke Cope, 

 I. c, 592, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 728 ; C. botUp. Boiil., I. c, I, 130. 



Body short and stout; rostral prominent; two nasals, the 

 anterior frequently fused with the internasals; loreal sometimes 

 fused with prefrontals; head plates variable ; upper labials 8-11; 

 scales smooth in 37-49 rows; ventrals 192-211; anal entire; sub- 

 caudals 20-37, mostly entire. Total length about 550 mm. (tail 

 50). Grayish to brownish above, yellow beneath. 



In the present genus Mr. Stejneger has again demonstrated the 

 worihlessness of characters drawn from the scales,'' although he 

 prefers to provisionally retain jylumbea B. and G. The difference 

 of four rows of scales between the type of bottce and the minimum 

 of plumbea is much less than the normal range of variability in 

 almost every known species of BokUe. 



Hab. — Oregon to Lower California and Nevada. 



Charina brachyops Cope. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1888, 88 ; I. c, 592, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 727 ; 

 Boul., I. c, I, 131. 



One specimen only is known of this species. It differs from 

 bottce in that the posterior prefrontal forms a part of the orbit, 

 and the loreal is absent, leaving the postnasal in contact with the 

 preocular. The constancy of these characters is not known, and 

 the form is retained provisionally. 



Hab. — Point Reyes, California. 



'' Proc. U. S. Nat. Jhis., 1890, p. 177. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AC.VDEMY OF [Jan., 



COLUBRID^/ 

 Key to the Genera. 



I. aglypha;: 



A. — Posterior dorsal hypapopliyses present: 



a. — Maxillary teeth longer bsliiml; scales keeled: 



a\ — Anal entire; no scale pits, .... EaT^ESiA. 

 _^ 6\ — Anal divided: 



2 interaasals; scale pits present, 



Tropidonotus. 

 2 internasals; no scale pits; keeled only on tail, 



Semixatrix. 

 1 internasal; no scale pits; keeled only on tail, 



Helicops. 

 h.- Maxillary teeth equal; scales keeled: 



a}. — Anal entire, Tropidocloxium. 



h^. — 'Anal divided: 



cr. — Loreal absent, Storeria. 



h'. — Loreal present : 



a\— 1 nasal; 1 preocular, . . Clonophis. 

 i\ — 2 nasals; preocular absent: 



2 internasals, .... Amphiardis. 



1 internasal, Haldea. 



B. — Posterior dorsal hypapopliyses absent : 

 ' a. — Maxillary teeth equal, or nearly so: 

 a\ — Anal entire: 



a^ — Scales smooth ; size large: 



Snout normal; scales less than 17 rows, 



Spilotes. 

 Snout elongate ; scales more than 25 rows, 



RHINECIIId. 



h"^. — Scales smooth; size small and slender; no 

 loreal ; pre- and postfrontals touching labials, 



Stilosoma. 

 C-. — Scales keeled; size large; 4-6 prefrontals, 



PiTYOPHIS. 



6\ — Anal divided: 



a\ — Scales keeled: 



2 nasals; size large; spotted or striped, 



Coluber. 

 1 nasal; size small; color green, 



Cyclophis. 



• Although not strictly followed here, the plan of serial arrangement of the 

 genera of C'o?«6/'i(Z(e adopted by Mr. Boulenger possesses a decided advan- 

 tage, ia that it does not pretend to a knowledge of close affinities which we 

 have not gained. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



b"'. — Scales smooth : 



a^ — Loreal and preocular present: 



1 preocular; 1 nasal; color not green, 



CONTIA. 



1 preocular; 1 nasal j color green, 



LlOPELTIS. 



2 preoculars; 2 nasals, 



DiADOPHIS. 



6^ — Preocular absent: 



2 internasals; 2 nasals; size small, 



Virginia. 

 2 internasals; 1 uasal ; large; bluisli- 

 l)lack with red stripes, . . Abastor. 

 1 internasal ; 1 nasal ; large ; bluish- 

 black with red spots, . . Farancia. 

 1-2 or no internasals; 1 nasal; small; 

 brown, Carphophis 



c\ — Loreal absent: 



Nasal usually fused with first labial, 



FiCIMIA. 



Nasal usually fused with internasal, 



Chilomeniscus. 

 h. — Maxillary teeth longer behind; no interspace: 

 a' — Anal divided : 



Rostral normal, Zamenis. 



Rostral ^vith projecting edges, 



Salvadora. 

 h\ — Anal entire: 

 a". — 2 nasals: 



Rostral normal ; subcaudals divided 



Ophibolus. 

 Rostral projecting; subcaudals entire, 



Rhinochilus. 

 Ir. — 1 nasal, rostral projecting, 



Cemophora. 

 c. — Maxillary teeth longer behind; an interspace: 



a\ — Anal entire; 3-4 loi'eals; rostral with projecting 



edges, PflYLLORHYNGHUS. 



h\ — Anal divided; 1 loreal: 



Scales keeled; rostral recurved, 



Heterodon. 

 Scales smooth, with pits; 2 preoculars, 



Hypsiglena. 

 Scales smooth, without pits; 1 preocular, 



Rhadinea. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



II. OPISTIIOGLYPHA : 



a. — Anterior maxillary teeth elongated; 2 loreals, 



Trimorphodon. 

 b. — Anterior maxillary teeth not elongated: 

 a'. — Loreal present: 



Scale pits present; eye uith vertical pupil, 



SiBON. 



Scale pits absent ; eye with round pupil, 



Erythrolamprus. 

 b\ — Loreal absent, Tantilla. 



III. PEOTEROGLYPHA : 



Scales smooth in 15 rows; red, with black and yellow rings, 



Elaps. 



EUT.a:NIA B. and G. 



I.e., 24 (1853); CMlopoma Cope, Wheeler Surv., 543; Atomarchns 

 Cope, Am. Nat., 1883, 1300 ; Eutcenia Cope, I. c, 645, and Eep. Nat. 

 Mus., 1014; Tropidonotus (part) Boul., L c, I, 192 ; T hamnophis 

 Stej., No. Am. Fauna, 7, 210.' 



Maxillary teeth smooth, gradually increasing behind, last 2-3 

 rather abruptly enlarged; head scales normal; 1 loreal; 2 nasals; 

 2 internasals ; body stout to very slender ; head distinct ; scales 

 keeled, without pits in 17-23 rows; anal entire. 



Hab. — North America and ^lexico. 



The snakes of this genus seem open to every possibility of varia- 

 tion; they exist everywhere in great numbers between the fiftieth 

 and fifteenth degrees of latitude ; many of them are of semi-aquatic 

 habits, and the complexity of their pattern easily runs into irregu- 

 larities, the reckless naming of which has added to the confusion. 

 In The Primary Factors of Organic Evolution, p. G3 (1896), 

 Prof. Cope states that he recognizes forty-nine species and sub- 

 species in this genus. Nevertheless, if the systematist will but 

 remember that heredity does not act with the exact methods of 

 mechanical reproduction, certain fairly definite groups may be 

 made out, to which these anomalies may with some certainty be 

 assigned. 



• In this paper ]Mr. Stejneger endeavors to substitute for the well-estab- 

 lished Eutcenia B. and G. Fiizinger's name Thnmnophu {Si/st. Bept., p. 26, 

 1843), and seeks to remove that author's mideiiued genera from the class of 

 nomina nuda, by the statement that "the simple tact that Fitzinger ex- 

 pressly indicated the type of the genus at once removes them from that cate- 

 gory." It is true that it does so by rule of the American Ornithologists' 

 Union, bat elsewhere, and in my opinion properly, the best usage refuses to 

 sanction these names. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Koj to the Species. 



I. Body with lougitudinal stripes; 2 labials in orbit: 



A. — Body very slender ; tail long; lateral stripe on third 

 and fourth rows; all scales keeled, in 19 rows: 

 a. — Tail I of length, ol' rather more: 



7 upper labials; brown with 3 yellow stripes, 



1. E. saurita. 



8 upper labials; olive; dorsal usually absent, 



2. E. sackeni. 

 h. — Tail -J^ of length or rather less; 8 upper labials, 



3. E. jyroxima. 

 B. — Body stouter; tail shorter: 



a. --Scales in 21 rows (occ. 19) : 



a\ — Lateral stripe on third and fourth roAvs: 



Usuall}' 8 labials; 21 rows, . 4. E. megcdops. 



Usually 7 labials; occ. 19 rows, 5. E. radix. 



y. — Lateral stripe on second and third rows; labials 



8 (occ. 19 rows and 7 labials), 6. E. elegans. 



h.— Scales in 19 rows (occ. 21) : 



Usually 8 labials; head broad, . . 7. E. eque-^. 

 Usually 7 labials ; head narrow, . 8. E. sirtalis. 

 II. Body without stripes; 21 rows: 



1 labial in orbit; brown with 7 rows of spots, 



9. E. midtimaculata. 



2 labials in orbit ; brown with small reddish spots anteriorly, 



10. E. rufojnmetata. 



Eutaenia saurita L. 



Coluber saitrita L., Syst. Nat., XII, 335 (1766); Eutmiia saurita B. 

 and G., I. c, 24 ; Cope, I. c, 650, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1020 ; Troju- 

 donotus saurita (part) BouL, I. c, I, 212. 



Upper labials 7 (rarely 8); oculars 1-3; temporals 1-2 (3); 

 body slender and elongated; tail from .36 to .28 of total length; 

 scales in 19 rows, all keeled; ventrals 150-170; subcaudals 95- 

 120; chocolate brown, with three yellow stripes, the lateral on the 

 third and fourth rows; belly yellow or greenish white; top of 

 head dark brown; a spot on parietals; labials yellow, unmarked. 

 The largest specimen I have seen is in the Academy's collection, 

 from Minnesota, and measures 865 mm. (tail 240). As is usually 

 the case with large examples, the tail is here rather short, 

 about .27. 



Hab. — United States, east of Mississippi river. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Eutaenia sackeni Kennicott. 



Proc. Ac. Phil., 1859,98; Cope, I. c. GoO, ami Kep. Nat. Mus., 1019; 

 T. saurita (part) Boul., I. c, 1,212. 



Scutellation and proportions as in saurita, but the upper labials 

 are almost invariably 8, instead of 7. The color is greenish olive, 

 or blackish in old specimens, and the dorsal stripe is usually 

 absent, in such cases showing faintly for a short distance l:)ehiud 

 the head. Total length 710 mm. (tail 255). 



Hab. — Florida. 



Eutaenia proxima Say. 



Coluber proximus Say, Long's E.Kp., I, 187 (1823); Eutceiiia proxima 

 and E. Faireyi B. and G., I. c, 25 ; E. p)roxima Cope, I. c, 65U, and 

 Eep. Nat. Mus., 1022 ; 2'. saurita (part) Boul., I. c. I, 212. 



Head small ; body slender, though stouter and with shorter tail 

 than in the preceding species; upper labials 8; oculars 1-3; tem- 

 porals 1-2 (3); scales in 19 rows, all keeled; ventrals 165-178; 

 subcaudais 91-115; dark olive or brownish to almost black; dor- 

 sal stripe distinct, bright yellow to orange; lateral stripe on third 

 and fourth rows, usually pale or greenish yellow ; belly yellow' or 

 green, usually without markings; top of head dark, with a pari- 

 etal spot; labials colored like the belly. Sometimes the dorsal and 

 lateral stripes are of the same color; very dark specimens with 

 such stripes, chiefly from the northern portions of its range, are 

 faireyi B. and G. These have often a slightly longer tail, but the 

 differences are not constant. The usual length of large examples 

 from the Mississippi valley is about 800 mm., of which the tail is 

 from .33-. 28, but a living specimen lately received by the Zoologi- 

 cal Society from Pecos, Tex., is 1160 mm. long (tail 280). In 

 this the tail is but .24 of the length, being the shortest I have met 

 with in the species. The dorsal stripe is a rich red. 



Hab. — Indiana and Illinois to southern Mexico, and west 

 through Texas. It is not certainly known from east of the Mis- 

 sissipj)i except in the States named. 



Eutaenia radix B. and G. 



I. c, 34 ; Cope, I. c, 650, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1026 ; T. ordinatus var. 

 radix Boul., I. c, I, 211. 



Body moderately stout; head broad; upper labials 7 (occ. 8); 

 oculars 1-3; temporals 1-2 ; ventrals 145-170; subcaudais 51-70; 

 scales in' 21 or 19 rows, all keeled, the outer slightly. Brown, 

 olive or' almost black, with three stripes, the dorsal usually golden 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



or orauge, aud the laterals ou the third and fourth row, paler yel- 

 low ; the spots are distinct except when the body color is so dark 

 as to obscure them; belly green to slaty black, with a dark spot at 

 the base of each ventral near the end; parietal spot usually present; 

 labials yellowish or green, heavily margined with dusky. Total 

 length 750 mm. (tail from .20-. 24). 



Although radix usually has 21 rows of scales, four out of five 

 specimens which I have lately received from eastern Missouri have 

 19. 



Hab. — From the Rocky Mountains to Indiana, and the British 

 possessions to Texas. The common species of the plains. 



Eutsenia megalops Kenuicott. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860, 330. 

 Confusion has been introduced into this species by inaccurate 

 description and identification. Typical megalops is from Arizona; 

 its Mexican representative is macrostemma Kenn. Sundry speci- 

 mens of the latter Prof. Cope described under the name insig- 

 niarum, attributing to it markings ob?cure or wanting, as com- 

 pared with macrostemma ; five specimens in the Academy's collection 

 from the City of Mexico, referred by Cope himself to insigniarum, 

 do not, however, bear out this statement, and I can see no reason 

 for regarding that form as distinct from macrostemma,^^ which 

 probably does not enter the United States. 



Eutaenia megalops megalops Kennicott. 



/. c.,330 ; E. mcgdlops and E. macrostemma insigniarum (part) Cope, 

 I. c, 650, 651; T. ordinatus var. macrostemma (part) Bonl., I. c, I, 

 212 ; E. megalops and E. macrostemma Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 1025, 

 1029. 



Body moderately stout; tail from .19-.2G of length; eye large; 



scales in 21 rows, the outer irregularly keeled; upper labials 8 (9), 



the last one small; temporals 1-2 (3). Brown or ashy with 



three narrow yellow stripes, the lateral on third and fourth rows; 



spots present, but not very distinct; belly usually green, bases of 



ventrals dusky; no j)arietal nor nuchal spots; a small post-oral 



crescent sometimes present; labials slightly margined; ventrals 



158-164; subcaudals 52-65. Total length of two specimens 



from Tucson: 740 mm. (tail 140), 690 mm. (tail 140). Three 



specimens of this snake were sent to the Zoological Society in 1891, 



i^In his latest work Cope himself abandons insigniarum in favor oi macro- 

 stemma. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF TilE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



from Tucson, Ariz., by Mr. Herbert Brown, and were ascribed by 

 Cope (^. c. , p. 051) to insirjniarum. They Avere at the time con- 

 sidered by me to be merjalops. They are now in the Academy's 

 collection, and reexamination shows that they do not correspond to 

 Cope's description of the first species, n ir to five examples of that 

 supposed form from Mexico, but they do agree in all respects with 

 Kennicott's description of megalops, except that the spots are 

 slightly more distinct and the upper labials are variable; one has 

 them 8-8, another 8-9, and the third 9-9. In the five macrostemma 

 Kenn. (^ hi'iicjniarum Cope) from Mexico, the largest of which 

 measures 990 mm., I find the tail to be about one-fourth of the 

 length, or longer than in most adult vier/alops, which reverses the 

 proportions given by Cope ; a smaller megalops from Duck creek, 

 New Mexico, in the Cope collection, 610 mm. long, has the tail 

 about .26, and more ventrals and subcaudals, but is otherwise 

 exactly like my Tucson specimens. 



Hab. — New Mexico, Arizona and northern Mexico. 



Eutaenia elegans B and G. 

 I. c, 34. 



As a rule elegans has 21 rows of scales and 8 labials, but varia- 

 tions to 19 rows and 7 labials are not uncommon, and in one form 



23 rows sometimes appear; oculars 1 (2)-3 (4); temporals 1-2 

 (sometimes 1-1 or 1-3); posterior chin shields about equal in 

 length to the anterior; head rather small; eye small or moderate ; 

 size rathftr smaller than E. sirtalis ; tail .19-25 of length; ven- 

 trals 144-180; subcaudals 53-90. The lateral stripe is on the 

 second and third rows ; the diversity of color is considerable, and 

 is best stated under subspecific heads. E. elegans is a western* 

 form, ranging from the central plains to the Pacific coast. 



Key to the Subspecies. 



ct. — Post-oral crescent absent: 



Color dark ; spots and lat. stripe often indistinct, 



1. E. e. elegans. 

 Color lighter; spots encroaching on stripes, 



2. E. e. vagrans. 

 Often 2 preoculars and 23 rows; otherwise like vagrans, 



3. E. e. biscutata. 

 b. — Post-oral crescent present: 



Spots and strijies distinct, . . . . 4. E. e. marciana. 

 Spots and stripes indistinct or absent, . 5. E. e. couchi. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 23 



Eutaenia elegans elegans B. and G. 



E. elegans B. and G., I. c, 34 ; E. e. elegans, E. e. plutonia and E. e. 

 brunnca Cope, I. c, 653, 654, and Eep. Nat. Miis., 1035, 1037; T. 

 vagrans (part) and T. ordinatus var. infcrnalis (part) Boul., I. c, 

 I, 202, 207 ; Thamnophis elegans (part) Van Den., Occ. Papers Cal. 

 Ac. of Sc, No. 5, 207 (1897); Thamnoi^his elegans Stej., No. Am. 

 Fauna, No. 7, 211. 



Color usually dark brown, olive or black, obscuring the spots; 

 dorsal stripe moderately wide and distinct, whitish, yellow or red; 

 laterals usually, but not always, distinct; there are no nuchal spots 

 and^the labials are without dark margins; belly generally light, with 

 a distinct yellowish tinge on the throat; eye moderate; posterior 

 chin shields about equal the anterior; A^entrals 155-172; sub- 

 caudals 57-80. 



E. jilutonia YaiTOw was based upon two melanistic individuals, 

 one from Arizona and the other from Washington. 



I can see no valid reason for retaining E. brunnea Cope. 



Hab. — California to Oregon. 



Eutaenia elegans vagrans B. and G. 



E. vagrans B. and G., I. c, 35 ; E. e. lineolata and E. e. vagrans Cope, 

 I. c, 655, 656, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1038, 1039 ; T. vagrans (part) 

 Boul., I. c, I, 202 ; Tlianinophis vagrans Stej., I. c, 213 ; T. vagrans 

 (part) Van Den., I. c, 210. 



E. vagrans has almost always 21 rows and 8 upper labials; ven- 

 trals 153-172; subcaudals 53-91; the eye is smaller than in 

 elegans and the posterior chin shields either equal the anterior in 

 length or are rather less. Color, greenish yellow or ashy to 

 brown ; the spots are rather small and numerous, they are usually 

 distinct and often tend to join together, forming zigzag cross- 

 bands ; they usually encroach upon the stripes, which are whitish 

 or yellow; the belly is frequently marbled with slate color, espe- 

 cially in the centre; head brown or blackish with parietal spot 

 and nuchal blotches generally present; labials rarely dark bordered 

 and then but narrowly. 



Hab. — The region of the plains and the Pacific coast from 



southern California to Oregon. 



Eutaenia elegans biscutata Cope. 



E. biscutata Cope, Proc. Acad. Phila., 1883, 21 ; I. c, 651, and Eep. 

 Nat. Mus., 1032; T. vagrans (part) Boul., I. c., I, 202; Thamno- 

 pJiis vagrans biscutata Van Deu., I. c., 212. 



This form was established by Prof. Cope upon a melanistic speci- 

 men of small size, with two preoculars and 21-22 rows of scales. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Mr. Van Denburgh has examined a nnmber which have 2, 3, 

 and occasionally 1 preocular; sometimes 7 labials and 21-23 rows; 

 all these being from Washington and Oregon. jVllowing for 

 donbt as to the significance of these variations, the form may be 

 provisionally retained as a subspecies of E. elegans. 



Eutaenia elegans marciana B. and G. 



JS. Marciana B. and G. , I. c, 36 ; E. e. marciana Cope, I. c, 656, and 

 Eep. Nat. Mus., 1045 ; E. nigrolateris A. Brown, Proc. Acad. Phila., 

 1889, 421; T. ordinaius var. mai'cianus Boa\., I. c, I, 211. 



Largest of the subspecies; 21 rows of scales; upper labials 8; 

 temporals 1-2 (3); iDosterior chin shields rather longest; ventrals 

 149-163; subcaudals 53-85. Light brown or ashy; dorsal stripe 

 narrow and not always distinct ; laterals of the same shade, but 

 frequently merged into the belly color; spots distinct and conspicu- 

 ous, sometimes encroaching a little upon the stripes; belly light 

 with a dark spot at the base of each ventral near the end; nuchal 

 and parietal spots present; labials heavily bordered, and a con- 

 spicuous pale post-oral crescent. 



E. nigrolateris A. Brown was based upon an individual from 

 Tucson, the most striking character of which, apart from obvious 

 abnormalties, was the extension of the preocular upward to meet the 

 frontal. Since then I have examined several marciana which 

 exhibit a tendency in this direction. 



Hab. — Central Texas to western Arizona. 



Eutaenia elegans couchi Kennicott. 



E. coucltii Kenn., Pac. E. R. Rep., 10 (1857), and E. hammondii 

 Kenn., Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860, 332; E. e. couchii Cope, I. c, 656, 

 and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1042 ; T. ordinatus vars. couchii and ham- 

 mondii Boul., I. c, I, 210 ; Thamnophis hammondii y am Den., I. c, 

 212. 



Moderately stout; 21 rows of scales (occ. 19); upper labials 8 

 (rarely 7); posterior chin shields longest; ventrals 159-173; 

 subcaudals 68-85. Grayish brown, dark brown or olive; dorsal 

 stripe narrow, indistinct or absent; lateral stripe not very distinct; 

 spots almost always absent, although a few black dots are some- 

 times visible on the scales; belly yellowish to black; labials dark 

 bordered; nuchal blotches present; post-oral crescent less distinct 

 than in marciana. 



Hab. — California and Arizona. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrniA. 25 



Eutaenia eques Reuss. 



Coluber eques Reuss., Mns. Senck., I, 153 ;^^ E. cyrtopsis, E. c. ocellata 

 and E. aurata Cope, I. c, 656, 659 ; 2'. ordiiuitus var. eques (part) 

 Boul., I. c, I, 209 ; E. eques Cope, Rep. Nat. 3[us., 1049. 



Body moderately stout ; head broad behind ; eye large ; scales 

 in 19 rows, the outer smooth or faintly keeled ; upper labials 8; 

 oculars 1-3; temporals 1-3; posterior chin shields much the 

 longest. Brownish olive ; dorsal stripe narrow, said to be red in 

 life; laterals paler, on the second and third rows; two series of 

 large black spots between the dorsal and latei*al stripes; anteriorly 

 and on the middle of the body the spots often fuse transversely^ 

 forming zigzag bands; the spots encroach considerably upon the 

 stripes, sometimes breaking through the lateral one, especially 

 anteriorly; a third row of spots on the outer row of scales and the 

 ends of the ventrals; belly whitish, each scutum black at the base 

 on the ends; top of head olive; large and conspicuous nuchal 

 blotches; labials yellowish white borda^ed with black; chin yellow- 

 ish ; ventrals 151-169; subcaudals 0-1-74; tail about .23 of 

 length. 



According to Dr. Coues, this species grows to quite the size of 

 E. sirtalis around Fort Whipple, Ariz. 



E. cyrtopsis ocellata Cope was founded upon specimens collected 

 by G. W. Marnock at Helotes, Tex., in which the lateral stripe 

 is cut completely through in places by the lower row of dorsal 

 spots. There are two specimens in the Cope collection from the 

 same locality and collector; one in every way corresponds with 

 Kennicott's description of cyrtopsis, the other is ocellata for about 

 four inches behind the head, and eques on the rest of the body. 



It is not easy to reconcile the original description of E. aurata 

 Cope with the type and only specimen, which is simply a well- 

 fattened and stout eques, with the spots obscure, though indicated. 

 The specimen is mutilated and the brown color has disappeared in 

 the preservative fluid, but in every character not dependent upon 

 prominence of the spots, it belongs to the present species. 



Hab. — Western Texas to Arizona; northern Mexico. 



Eutaenia sirtalis L- 



Coluber sirtalis L., Sj^st. Nat., Ed. X, 22-2 (1758). 



This is rather a stout species; head distinct and moderately 

 large; tail from .20 to .25 of the length; oculars 1 (2)-3 (4); 



11 I have been unable to verify this reference, and it is adopted here on the 

 authority of Eoulenger and Cope. 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF IHE ACADEMY OF {JaU., 



temporals 1 anterior, ^vith 1, 2 or 3 iu the second row; upper 

 labials almost always 7, but iu one subspecies 6 or 8; posterior chin 

 shields lougest; scales in 19 rows (occ, 17 or 21), the outer row 

 smooth or faintly keeled; veutrals 138-165; sub-caudals 55-85. 

 The color range is very great : bluish, green, olive, brown and 

 almost black, usually with a dorsal stripe and a lateral on the 

 second and third rows, and three rows of spots on the back and 

 side; any or all of these may be absent; belly yellow, green or 

 black, generally with a roundish spot near the end of each ventral; 

 the head is dark above, usually with a parietal sj^ot ; labials mar- 

 gined with dusky. Maximum length about 900 mm. 



Hab. — The Avhole of North America, wherever snakes are 

 found, and extending into Mexico. 



Key to the Subspecies. 



Green, with spots, usually no stripes, . . . \. E. s. ordinatm. 

 Stripes and spots present; no red on sides, . . 2. E. s. sirtalis. 

 Stripes and sj^ots often obscure; generall}^ red on sides, 



3. E. s. jiciTietalis. 

 Color very dark ; 3 stripes; belly blue-black, 4. E. s. 2nckermgi. 

 Color dark, 3 stripes; head small; often 17 rows, 



5. E. s. leptocephala. 



Eutaenia sirtalis ordinata L. 



Coluber ordinatus L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII. 379 (1766); E. s. ordinata 

 and E. s. (jraniinea (part) Cope, I. c, 662, and Rep. Nat. Mns., 1066, 

 1067; 2\ ordinatus forma typica Boul., /. c, I, -206. 



Green above; usually without stripes; spots generally distinct, 

 but in some cases obscure; belly greenish white; 19 rows of scales; 

 7 labials. 



Hab. — United Stat(!S east of Mississippi river. 



Eutaenia sirtalis sirtalis L. 



Coluber sirtalis L., Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 222 (1758); B. s. sirtalis, E. s. 

 (jraviiiiea (part), E. s. semifasciata, E. s. obsciira and E. butleri 

 Cope, I. c, 662, 663, 651, and Kcp. Nat. Miis., 1066, 1067-74, 1031 ; 

 7\ ordinatus var. sirt((lis (part) and var. butleri Boul., /. c, I, 206, 

 212; Thamnopliis butleri Stej., Proc. U.S. Nat. I\his., 1891, 593; 

 E. bruchystoma Cope, Am. Nat., 1892, 964, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 1056. 



This subspecies has almost always 19 rows of scales and 7 upper 

 labials; oculars 1-3; tem^iorals usually 1-2 (3), occasionally 1-1; 

 the color is variable, but is usually brown, bluish or green, with 

 the three light stripes well defined ; spots rather large and usually 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



distinct; top of head dark ; parietal spot present ; labials yellowish 

 or greenish, with dark borders; ventrals 138-165; subcaudals 

 61-80. Length, 750 to 950 ram., of which the tail is from .20 

 to .25. 



Some of the specimens referred by Prof. Cope to E. s. graminea 

 have the stripes more or less distinctly marked; these I assign to 

 the present form. 



E. s. semifasciata Cope is based upon a few individuals in 

 which the spots are somewhat confluent anteriorly — a disposition 

 by no means uncommon in many of the species of this genus. 



Specimens in the Academy's collection labeled obsciDxi by Cope 

 plainly show the dorsal spots, although not prominently; similar 

 individuals may be found in almost any lot of E. s. sirtalis col- 

 lected in one locality; w^estern examples of obscura are probably 

 referable to E. s. pariefalis. The only thing which appears to me 

 out of the ordinary about the form, is that any one should have 

 thought of giving it a name. 



The basis of E. butlerl Cope was a specimen from Richmond, 

 Indiana, the special characters of Avhich were: the great width of 

 the lateral stripe, covering three rows of scales ; the black borders 

 of the stripes; the absence of defined spots and of markings on the 

 head and labials, and the presence of but one temporal in the 

 second row. To these distinctions Mr. Stejneger has added, from 

 a second specimen in the National Museum, that the eye is 

 strikingly small. I have not seen the type specimen, from Rich- 

 mond, but two others (No. 6523, Ac. coll.) from southeastern 

 Indiana, labeled by Cope E. butlerl, present intermediate charac- 

 ters. In these examples, the lateral stripe nowhere " covers " the 

 second, third and fourth rows, being everywhere restricted to the 

 lower half of the fourth, and anteriorly, where it most extends on 

 the fourth, it barely covers the upper margin of the second, while 

 on the hinder half of the body it is almost wholly on the second 

 and third. The sijots are not entirely absent, though obscure 

 against the dark bod}- color, and in one of the specimens they 

 form narrow broken borders to the stripes, as in many of Cope's 

 obscura; the posterior labials have narrow dark borders, and there 

 is an indistinct parietal spot. Both have two temporals in the 

 second row; in one the lower is narrow and in contact with the 

 anterior one only by its point; in the other, the lower is much the 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau.^ 



largest; in any event E. s. sirtalis not infrequently has but one 

 second temporal. 



Examination of the type of E. hrachystoma Cope leaves little 

 ground for regarding it as anything more than a dwarfed and 

 shortened E. s. sirtalis. The colors appear to have faded; on 

 stretching the skin, indications of the dorsal spots appear, and the 

 ventral spots of sirtalis are not absent, as stated in the description, 

 but are plainly present, though small. The body is dispropor- 

 tionately short, as is the mouth, which, instead of reaching back 

 as far as the hinder end of the parietals, ends quite in advance of 

 that point; with which shortening the reduced number of labials is 

 doubtless correlated. 



Hah. —E. s. sirtalis is found over the United States and southern 

 Canada, east of the great plains, but is chiefly from east of the 

 Mississippi river. 



Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis Say. 



Coluber parietalis Say, Long's Exp., I, 18G (1823); E. s. parietalis, 

 E. s. conciiina, E. s. tetratmnia, E. s. dorsalis, E. s. obscura (part), 

 E. elegans ordinoidcs and E. infernalis infernaUs (part) Cope, I. c, 

 654-664, and Rep. Nat. Mas., 1074-1081 ; T. ordinatus var. sirtalis 

 (part) and T. o. var. infernalis (part) Bonl., I. c, I, 206, 207 ; 

 T ham nophis parietalis Stej., No. Am. Fauna, No. 7, 214 ; Van Den., 

 /. c, 201. 



This subspecies has usually 19 rows and 7 labials; occasional 

 examples have 21 rows and the labials are sometimes 8; the color 

 is dark brown, bluish, black or even green; dorsal stripe distinct 

 and variable in color, white, blue, yellow or red; the laterals are 

 distinct owing to the presence of more or less of the dark body 

 color on the outer rows and ends of the ventrals; the upper row of 

 spots commonly fuses into a longitudinal black stripe, with which 

 the lower row sometimes connects above; the skin on the sides is 

 bright red, sometimes extending on to the scales so that the sides 

 appear to have a denticulated pattern of black and red. This is 

 often seen in living snakes only when the scales are stretched apart, 

 but in alcoholic specimens the spaces between the lower row of spots 

 seem to fade rapidly to white, and the denticulated pattern is then 

 very distinct. The belly is yellow, green or bluish slate, and the 

 spots near the ends, though small, are plainly to be seen at the 

 base of each ventral; top of head olive or reddish yellow; an 

 occasional labial with a narrow dark margin. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



E. s. tetvaUenia Cope was founded upon sj ecimeiis which had 

 beeu many years in alcohol. One in the Academy's collection 

 (No. 6085) from Puget Sound, formerly known as E. conclnna, 

 seems to have had the red lateral spaces formed into a longitudinal 

 stripe, extinguishing the upper portion of the lower row of spots. 

 A small snake in the same jar, of the same date and locality, is an 

 ordinary parietalis. 



Considering the amount of variability in the joining of the spots 

 in 2)anetaMs, and also the uncertain way in which the red pigment 

 dissolves in alcohol, I am not disposed to attach much importance 

 to slight differences in these very old specimens. 



E. dorsalis B. and G. has the upper black dorsal stripe some- 

 what narrower than is usual in those examples of parietalis in 

 which the spots fuse into a stripe. 



E. onlinoides B. and G. is said to have the sides chestnut in 

 life, instead of bright red, but this difference is trivial and old 

 alcoholic specimens are distinguishable only when they have 21 

 rows of scales and 8 labials; but as ordinoides and parietalis vary 

 into each other in scutellation, I see no good reason for separating 

 them, or for assigning the former to E. elegans, as is done by Cope. 



Whatever may or may not have been injernalis Blainville, I 

 have never seen a living specimen which could be referred with 

 certainty to injernalis B. and G. or Cope, and I am persuaded 

 that those so called belong in part to the present form and in part 

 to E. elegans. 



The dimensions of parietalis are about as in E. s. sirtalis. 



Hab. — From central California norih to \Yashington and 

 Oregon, and through the plains from Montana to Texas. 



Eutaenia sirtalis pickeringi B. and G. 



£J. Phckaringii B. and G., I. c, 27 ; E. s. jnckeringii and E. s. trilineata 

 Cope, I. c, 065, and Rep Nat. Mus., 1082, 1083 ; T. o. var. infernalis 

 (part) Boul., I.e., I, 207; Thamnophis parietalis pickeringi Van 

 Den., I. c, 204. 



Color very dark, blackish brown or black, with three narrow 

 light stripes ; belly dark greenish or slate color; throal lighter. 

 E. s. trilineata Cope is simply this form with the stripes inconsid- 

 erably wider. 



Hab. — Washington, Oregon and western Montana. 




30 riiOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Eutaenia sirtalis leptocephala B. and G. 



E. leptocephala B. and G., I. c, 29 ; B. atrata and E. cooperi Kenn., 

 Pac. K. R. Survey, 296 (1860); E. leptocephala and E. infer nalis 

 vidua Cope, I. c, 658, 660, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1058, 1055 ; T. lep- 

 tocephalus (part) and T. o. var. infernalis (part) Boul., I. c, 1,201, 

 208; Thamnophis leptocephalus Stej., I. c, 214; Van Den., I. c, 

 205. 



Size smaller and tail relatively a little longer than in E. s. 

 sirtalis; body moderately stout; head small and narrow; scales in 

 17-19 rows; preoculars 1 or 2 (3); postoculars 3 or 4: temporals 

 1-1 or 1-2; upper labials usually 7, but sometimes 6 or 8; olive, 

 greenish or blackish brown, generally with three light stripes; 

 these are variable and sometimes absent; the three rows of spots 

 are hardly to be seen in dark specimens; belly yellowish, greenish 

 or dark slate; head dark, with a parietal spot; labials yellower 

 olive, sometimes narrowly bordered; ventrals 139-152; sub- 

 caudals 52-77. Total length of one specimen 724 mm. (tail 

 1G4); of another 723 mm. (tail 138). Nine specimens from 

 Washington and British Columbia, • collected by Samuel N. 

 Rhoads, have 17 rows of scales; nearly all have 7 labials; one 

 has them 7-8, and one has 8; the preoculars ai-e 1, 2 or 3, with 2, 

 3 or 4 postoculare. In all the color is dark brown or black, with 

 the spots barely visible and the lateral stripe indistinct. Indi- 

 viduals with 19 rows and 7 labials so closely resemble some forms 

 of parietalis, and in fact some Eastern E. s. sirtalis, that I cannot 

 regard it as more than a subspecies. 



In E. infernalis vidua Cope has merely redescribed two of 

 Kennicott's original specimens of E. atrata, although he does not 

 mention the fact, "while referring to the resemblance. One of 

 Kennicott's specimens (No. G359 Ac. coll. ; original number 970), 

 marked vidua by Cope, better accords with the first description 

 than with the later one. It has 19 rows at a point about three 

 inches behind the head, where the number rarely reaches a maxi- 

 mum, but on the rest of the body it has 17 as stated by Kenni- 

 cott;'- upper labials 8; oculars 1-3; temporals 1-2; ventrals 155; 

 subcaudals (35; length 622 mm. (tail 138), or .22 of the length, 

 being considerably shorter than the proportion given by Cope. A 

 second specimen (No. G584 Ac. coll.), also from San Francisco, 

 has the dorsal stripe somewhat narrower ; spots obscure, but visible 



1 * Curiously enough, Cope in his last paper, p. 1059, refers to this irregu- 

 larity ia the number of rowa as being sometimes found in leptocephala. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF nilLADELPIIIA. 31 



against the dark body color, and has the belly rather lighter, with 

 clear indications of a lateral stripe on the second and third rows ; 

 ventrals 143; subcaudals 03; length 440 mm. (tail 108, or .245 

 of the length). In one the labials are dark lead color, in the 

 other yellowish green, both wilh traces of narrow dark borders; 

 the chin shields are not subeqiial in these specimens, but the hinder 

 are noticeably the longest, as in most leptocephala, and the eye is 

 small, as in that form. Mr. Van Denburgh refers vidua to elegans, 

 but the totality of characters in the two which I have examined 

 comples me to regard them as leptocephala, to which, in fact. Cope 

 himself has already referred atrata, of which vidua in no event 

 could be more than a synonym. 



Hab. — British Columbia, Oregon, Washington and California 

 north of San Francisco. 



Eutaenia multimaculata Cope. 



Atomnrchus multimaculatus Cope, Am. Nat., 1883. 1300 ; E. mul- 

 timaculata Cope, I. c, 665, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1087 ; T. multimac- 

 ulatus Boul., I. c, I, 214. 



Posterior maxillary teeth shorter than in the preceding species; 

 occasionally an azygous plate between the internasals; scales in 21 

 rows; upper labials 8, the fourth only touching the eye; oculars 

 2-3; temporals 1-3. 



Grayish or brown above, with about 7 longitudinal series of 

 brown or reddish spots with lighter centres, some of which often 

 unite transversely; ventrals yellowish with dark edges. Length 

 about 708 mm. 



Hab. — Southern New Mexico; northern Mexico. 



Eutaenia rufopunctata Cope. 



CMlopoma rufopunctata Cope, Wheeler Survey, 544 (1875); E. 

 rufopunctata Cope, I. c, 666; 1\ rufopunctata Boul., I. c, I, 214. 



Teeth as in multimaculata ; head narrow; rostral large and pro- 

 jecting; 21 rows of scales; upper labials 8, fourth and fifth touch- 

 ing the eye; oculars 2 (l)-3; temporals 1-3; chin shields about 

 equal. 



Light brown, anteriorly with six rows of small reddish or orange 

 spots; belly brownish gray, base of ventrals dark; no markings 

 on head; labials light; ventrals 177, subcaudals 87. Only one 

 specimen known, from southern Arizona. Length 257 mm. 




32 rROCEEDiXGS OF Till: ACADEMY OF [Jaa., 



TROPIDONOTUS Kuhl. 



Isis von Oken, 1826, 205 ; Boul. (part), I. c, I, 192 ; Natrix Cope, I. c, 

 667, and Kep. Nat. Mus., 957 ; Nerodia and Rerjiaa B. and G., I. c, 

 38-45. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, gradually increasing posteriorly, the 

 last three or four rather abruptly enlarged; head scales normal; 1 

 loreal; 2 [nasals; 2 interuasals; body rather stout; head distinct; 

 scales keeled with double pits in 17-38 rows; anal divided. 



Hab. — Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia, America. 



This genus much resembles Eukeiiia, but has a divided anal and 

 scale pits. Being viviparous, like Eutcenia, these snakes breed 

 freely in captivity, and the insignificance of slight differences in 

 color and pattern may be instructively observed in almost any 

 single brood of young. 



Key to the North American Species. 



a. — Body with stripes; scales in 19-21 rovvs: 

 a\ — Preoculars 2 : 



Brown; 3 black stripes on back; 4 on belly, 



1. T. leberis. 

 Olive brown, with 4 narrow stripes on back, 



2. T. grahami. 

 Brown, with 2 narrow stripes on back, 3. T. rigida. 

 h\ — Preocular 1 : 



Yellowish brown; 4 dark brown sti'ipes on back, 



4. T. clarki. 

 h. — Body with spots or cross bands: 



a\ — Scales in 19-21 rows ; brown, with indistinct spots or 



cvoss-bands, 5. 21 conipressicauda. 



b\- Scales in 23-25 rows ; brown with alternating spots or 



cross-bands, 6. T. sipedon.^^ 



\ c\ — Scales in 27-29 rows: 



27 rows; large alternating spots, . 7. T. rhombifer. 

 29 rows; narrow coss-bands; eye with circle of scales, 



8. T. cyclopeum. 



d\ — Scales in 29-33 rows; size large; alternating spots; 



parietals broken up, T. taxisjnlotus. 



Tropidonotus leberis L. 



Coluber leberis L., Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 216 (1753); Regina leberis B. 

 and G., I. c, 45 ; JS^atrix leberis Cope, /. c, 668, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 

 993 ; T. septemvittatus Boul., I. c, 1, 239. 



Size moderate ; oculars 2-2 ; temporals 1-2 ; upper labials 7 ; 



1^ Tropidonotus bisectus Cope {Proc. U. S. Nat. 3Ius., 1887, p. 116) Is 

 obviously abnormal in some, at least, of its characters. Its locality is uncer- 

 tain and is probably referable to some form of T. sipedon. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 33 



scales iu 19 nnvs; ventrals 14G-151; subeaiulals 64-86. Dark 

 brown above Avith three narrow longitudinal l)lack stripes on the 

 back; a yellow stripe on the two outer rows of scales ; belly yellow- 

 ish with four black stripes. Length 580 mm, (tail 154). 



Hab. — United States east of the Mississippi; not common in 

 Florida. 

 Tropidonotus graliami B. and G. 



Regina Graliamii B. and G., I. c, 47 ; Natrix r/ra7iamii Cope, I. c, 

 668, and Kep. Nat. Mus., 991 ; T. grahami Boul., I. c, I, 240. 



Size moderate; oculars 2-2 (3); temporals 1-2; upper labials 7; 

 scales in 19 rows (occ. 21) ; ventrals 150-173; subcaudals 45-65, 

 A light brown or clay-colored dorsal stripe, one and a halt scales 

 wide, bordered by a narrow black line; below this, an olive-brown 

 stripe three scales wide, bordered below by another black line on the 

 fourth row; belly and three outer rows straw yellow. There is a 

 narrow black line along the juncture between the ventrals and the 

 outer scale row, and frequently another along the middle of the 

 ventrals. In old individuals the colors darken and the appear- 

 ance is sometimes presented of a brown snake with three narrow 

 black stripes on each side. Length 880 mm. (tail 130). 



Hab. — The Mississippi valley, from Michigan to Texas. 



Tropidonotus rigidus Say. 



Coluber rigidus Say, Jour. Acad. Phila., IV, 1825, 239 ; Regina rigida 

 B. and G., I. c, 49; Nntrix rigida Cope, I. c, 668, and Eep. Nat. 

 Mus., 989; T. rigidus Boul., L c, I, 240. 



Size rather small ; oculars 2-2 ; temporals 1-2 ; upper labials 7 ; 

 19 rows of scales; ventrals 132-142; subcaudals 51-71. 



Greenish brown, with two narrow black stripes on the back; 

 labials and belly yellow, with two series of black spots on the ven- 

 trals, which sometimes merge into a clouded stripe in front and 

 behind. Length 536 mm. (tail 102). 



Hab. — Pennsylvania, south and southwest to the Gulf; rare in 



Florida. 



Tropidonotus clarkii B. and G. 



Regina Clarkii B. aud G., I. c, 48 ; Natrix clarkii Cope, I. c, 669, aud 

 Kep. Nat. Mus., 987 ; T. clarkii Boul., I. c, I, 238. 



Size moderate; oculars 1-3 (2); temporals 1-3 (2); upper 



labials 8 (occ. 7); scales in 19 or 21 rows; ventrals 130-135; 



subcaudals 57-68. 



3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Dark olive brown above, witli three light olive stripes, the dorsal 

 one three scales wide, and the lateral on the third, fourth and part 

 of the fifth rows; belly yellow in the middle and light olive on the 

 sides and outer row of scales ; an irregular clouded stripe of red- 

 dish brown on each side of the median yellow tract. Length 806 

 mm. (tail 168). 



Hab. — Western Louisiana and Texas. 



Tropidonotus compressicaudus Konnioott. 

 Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860, :J35. 



Size moderate; tail somewhat compressed; scales in 19 or 21 

 rows, very occasionally 23; oculars 1-3 (2); temporals 1-3 (2); 

 upper labials 8. The pattern in this species is not disiinct, and is 

 best seen in the young. The body color is greenish olive, with a 

 dorsal row of black spots and a smaller series on each side. The 

 spots are confused and irregular, the laterals being sometimes oppo- 

 site the dorsals and sometimes alternating with them ; they tend to 

 fuse together, forming cross-bands, which when they alternate, are 

 zigzag. The anterior spots in many specimens merge lengthwise 

 into more or less distinct stripes on the neck, which at times extend 

 some distance on the body. The belly is yellowish or ashy, com- 

 monly blotched with black, more heavily posteriorly; anteriorly 

 each ventral is margined with black, leaving a transverse elliptical 

 yellow mark in the centre, with sometimes a row of similarly 

 colored small spots on each end. Top of the head greenish olive, 

 often with an elongated black lilotch on the frontal and parietals ; 

 labials yellow, more or less margined with black. 



Two color forms may be distinguished : 

 Three rows of spots; traces of stripes on neck, 



1. T. c compressicaudus. 

 Cross-bands on body ; black stripes on neck, . . 2. T. c. iistus. 



Tropidonotus compressicaudus compressicaudus Kenn. 



Nerodia compressicaudci Kenu., Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860, 3.35; Natrix 

 compressicauda Cope, I. c, 669, and IJep. Nat. Mus., 979 ; T. com- 

 pressicaudus (part) Boul., I. c, I, 233. 



Grayish olive or ashy, with about forty dark spots on the back, 

 distinct but irregular; the dorsal and lateral series mostly alter- 

 nating, sometimes forming cross-bands in front. Indications of 

 short stripes on the neck. 



A small specimen collected by ]Mr. C. B. Moore, on Pine 

 Island, Charlotte Harbor, has 133 ventrals; 74 subcaudals; length 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 35 



255 ram. (tail 68). The species reaches a length of about 

 600 ram. 



Hab.— Florida. 



Tropidonotus compressicaudus ustus Cope. 



T. ristus Cope, Proc. Aoa'1. Phila., 1860, 310; JVatrix mta. N. eom- 



pressicauda bivittafa, JSf. c. walkerii, N. c. compsolmmn Cope, I. c, 

 G68, 6G9, 670, and Hep. Nat. Mus., 981-983 ; JV. c. kc/wita Cope, Am. 

 Nat., 1895, 676; T. compressicaudus (part) BouL, I. c, I, 238. 



lu this form the spots join to form raore or less distinct cross- 

 bands, sorae thirty-five to forty on the body ; these are frequently 

 obscure, especially in adults; the neck stripes occasionally extend 

 sorae distance toward the tail. The body color is frequently pale 

 yellow, more or less suffused Avith the reddish tinge common in 

 many species of this genus. The whole pattern is indefinite and 

 hardly any two specimens are alike ; upon these trivial differences 

 the forms given in the syuouymy have been based. 



Hab.— Florida. 



Tropidonotus sipedon L- 



Coluber sipedon L., Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 219 (1758). 



Size moderate, to large and stout; scales in 23 or 25 rows; upper 

 labials 8 (occ. 9); oculars 1-3 (2); temporals 1-3 ; veulrals 125- 

 155; subcaudals 59-82. 



In this species the color is brown, yellowish or red above, with 

 darker transverse bauds or spots on the back, or both in combina- 

 tion; the beUy is yellowish, either spotted or unmarked. The 

 pattern is distinct in the young, but the body color becomes dark 

 in old specimens, until the markings are often wholly obliterated. 

 Three well-marked color forms may be distinguished, of which 

 1. s. sipedon is the common "water snake" of the Eastern 

 Middle States; T. s. fasciatus of the Southern and Gulf States, 

 and 2. s. tramversus seems to be restricted to the western part of 

 the lower Mississippi valley. 



a. — Ventrals spotted: 



Cross-bands on whole of back, . . . 1. T. s. fasciatus. 



Cross-bands in front ; spots posteriorly, . 2. T. s. sipedon. 

 b. — Ventrals not spotted; whole body with alternating spots, 



3. T. s. transversiis. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau., 



Tropidonotus sipedon fasciatus I- 



Coluber fasrAatus L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 378 (1766); Nerodia fasci- 

 ata and N. erythrogaster B. and G., I. c, 39, 40; Natrix fnsciata 

 fascinta, N. f. x>leuraUs and N.f. crythrof/aster Co-pe, I. c, 673, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mas., 963, 973, 975; N.'f. pic'tieventris Cope, Am. Nat., 

 1895, 077, and Rep. Xat. Mus., 969 ; T. fasciatus (part) Boul., I. c, 

 I, 242. 



Size large; body stout; scales in 28 rows (raiely 25); upper 

 labials 8; oculars 1-3 (2); temi^rals 1-3; veutrals 125-155; 

 subcaudals 60-82. 



YelloAvisli, yellowish red, or In'own above, witli from twenty to 

 thirty darker trausverse bands on the back, narrowing on the sides, 

 and sometimes red spots on the sides ; sometimes the bands are more 

 or less broken posteriorly; belly Avhitish yellow or salmon color, 

 blotched with yellow, red or black; very often each ventral is mar- 

 gined all around with the darker shade; top of the head uniformly 

 dark, generally olive; an oblique dark streak behind the orbit; 

 labials margined with dark brown. Old specimens become very 

 dark. A large one from Georgia, now living in the Zoological 

 Gardens, is sooty black with traces of red markings on the flanks; 

 in this specimen the posterior third of the belly is almost wholly 

 black. Anolher from Florida has the body color brick red on 

 the back, becoming almost vermilion on the sides, the cross-bands 

 being reddish with a mixture of olive; the ventrals are yellow or 

 orange, mostly bordered all around with darker orange. This 

 merely fortuitous phase is jyictieventr is Cope." 



A young specimen, now in the Academy's collection, bred in 

 the Zoological Gardens from a typical fasciatus, shows at the age 

 of one day, transverse bands, posteriorly much broken up into 

 spots. With the darkening and consequent obscurity of color, 

 especially along the dorsal area, Avhich results from age, this speci- 

 men would develop the pattern attributed to jileural is Cope. 



I have no knowledge of small individuals of erythrogaster Shaw, 

 and there is not the least "doubt in my mind that this form is again 

 the result of darkening with age of the red specimens of fasciatus 

 described above; although it may be that some northern examples 

 should be referred to T. s. sipedon. 



The largest of this subspecies which I have seen, measured 1270 

 mm. (tail 300). 



Hab. — Virginia to Florida and west to Texas. 



'* This identification is given on the anthority of Prof. Cope, who declared 

 that this specimen belonged to his new subspecies. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIliNX^ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Tropidonotus sipedon sipedon L. 



Coluber sipedon L., Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 219 (1758); JSferodia sipedon 

 B. and G., I. c, 38; JVatrix fasciata sipedon Cope, I. c, 671, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mus., 969 ; T. fasciatus (part) BouL, I. c, I, 242. 



Size moderate; almost invariably 23 rows and 8 upper labials; 

 old specimens sometimes much resemble some phases of T. s. fasci- 

 atus, but as a rule the body is less stout. When clear enough to 

 be distinguished, the pattern consists of a series of large brown 

 dorsal spots, separated by very narrow light interspaces; the dorsal 

 alternates with a series of lateral spots separated by light intervals 

 as long as or longer than themselves. Anteriorly, the lateral 

 spots are often obscure or wanting. In old dark individuals, the 

 general aspect is ihat of a dark-brown snake crossed on the middle 

 of the back by narrow light lines, about half a scale wide, mar- 

 gined with black. The ventrals ai'e spotted, but less heavily 

 than in fasciatus. Top of the head brown; there is usually no 

 post-ocular stripe, but when the general color is light, it is some- 

 times indicated. Ventrals 130-150; subcaudals 59-80, Length 

 890 mm. (tail 205). 



Hab. — New England to the Carolinas; west to Wisconsin and 

 Kansas. 



Tropidonotus sipedon transversus Hullowell. 



T. transversus Hallow., Proc. Arad. Phila., 1852, 177 ; Nerodia Wood- 

 housii and JV. iransrersa B. and G., I. c, 42, 148 ; iV. /. transversa 

 Cope, I. c, 672, and Rep. Nat. Mus , 973 ; T. fasciatus (part) Boul., 

 I. c., I, 242. 



Size rather less than T. s. sipedon; scales in 23-25 rows; upper 

 labials 8 or 9; temporals 1-3 ; ventrals 140-150; subcaudals 64— 

 80. Body color olive or brown; a dorsal series of 30-35 dark brown 

 spots about four scales long and seven or eight wide, black bor- 

 dered in front and behind; the interspaces aoout one scale wide; 

 an alternating series of upright rectangular dark brown blotches 

 on the sides, the intervals being w'ider than the blotches; 

 the dorsal and lateral series are not in contact; belly yellow, with 

 the base of each ventral dusky. Top of head dark olive, with 

 sometimes a yellowish elongated spot on the commissure of the 

 parietals and two small yellow dots on the anterior border of the 

 frontal. Length about 860 mm. (tail 186). 



Hab.- -Western Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas. 




38 PKOCEEDIXGS OF TOE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Tropidonotu8 rhombifer Hallowell. 



Pioc. Acad. Phila., 1852, 177 ; Nerodia Ilolhrookii and i\". rJiomhifer 

 B. and G., I. c, 4.'5 and 147; Natrix rhomhlfera Cope, I. c, 673, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mus., 9G3 ; T. fusciatus (part), Boul. I.e., I, 242. 



Size large; scales in 25 or 27 rows (Cope states that in thirteen 

 individuals he found only one with 25 rows; whereas, in eight, I 

 find five with 25, one with 26 and two with 27); oculars 1-2 

 (occasionally 3 or 4 post-oculars) ; tempoi-als 1-2 (3); ujiper 

 labials 8; ventrals 141-150; subcaudals 57-78. 



Reddish brown, occasionally pale yellowish brown, darker on 

 the back; a dorsal series of 35-40 black blotches, six or seven 

 scales wide and two or three long, separated by rather longer inter- 

 spaces; on each side an alternating series of vertical rectangular 

 blotches, each of which is connected by a black oblique bar from 

 its upper corners to the contiguous lower corners of the dorsal spots. 

 Irregular cross-bauds on the tail. Belly yellow or gray, with an 

 orange tinge posteriorly; a roundish black spot at the end of each 

 ventral. Top of head olive brown; upper labials lighter olive; 

 lower labials and throat yellow; all the labials narrowly margined 

 Avith brown. This snake resembles T. tazispilotus, but has fewer 

 scales and the spots are connected at the angles. Length 1,115 

 mm. (tail 220) ; probably reaches the size of T. s. fasciatus. 



Hab. — Southern Illinois and Indiana to Texas; extends south to 



Vera Cruz. 



Tropidonotus cyclopium Dum. and Bib. 



Erp. Gen., VII, 576 (1854); Cope, I. c, 673, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 961 ; 

 Boul., I. c, I, 244. 



Size large; scales in 29 rows (occ. 31); oculars 1-2 (3); tem- 

 porals 1-2 (3); upper labials 8 (7); almost always 2, 3 or 4 sub- 

 oculars, forming with the })re- and post-oculars a ring around the 

 eye; ventrals 135-150; subcaudals 64-81. 



Greenish or dark olive; irregular, broken darker bands, about 

 the width of one scale, across the back to about the seventh row, at 

 intervals of about two scales; oi)i)osite the interspaces, on each 

 side, a vertically elongated l)lack blotch extending from the third 

 to the sixth row ; l)e)ly yellowish or greenish white, the exterior 

 base of each ventral clouded with dusky, which increases posteri- 

 orly; top of head dark brown; lower half of upper labials lighter; 

 all labials witli dark mr.rgins. The whole pattern is obscure, and 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA, 39 



infold examples is not easy to make out. Length 1,200 mm. (tail 

 260). 



Hab. — Florida to New Orleans, and sparingly up the Missis- 

 sippi to southern Illinois. 

 Tropidonotus taxispilotus Ilolbrook. , 



No. Am. Herp., IV, 35, PI. 8 (1813); NerocUa tnxispilotua B. and G., 

 I. c, 43 ; Natrix taxispilota Cope, I. c, 674, anti Kep. Nat. Mus., 959; 

 T. taxispilotus Bonl., I. c, I, 215. 



Largest of the American water snakes ; body very stout ; scales 

 in 29-33 rows, strongly keeled ; oculars 1-2 (3); temporals 2-4 

 (5); the parietal shields are small, their hinder portion being 

 usually broken up into small plates ; upper labials 8, usually only 

 the fourth entering the eye: ventrals 130-148; subcaudals 70-90. 



Reddish brown, with a dorsal and lateral series of rectangular 

 blackish brown blotches, which alternate but do not touch; belly 

 yellowish white with irregular blotches of dark brown. This 

 species resembles both T. s. transversus and T. rhombifer, but may 

 always be known from the former b}'' the increased number of scale 

 rows, and from the latter by the absence of the oblique bars con- 

 necting the dorsal and lateral spots. An occasional specimen 

 shows the orbital ring of scales fouud in T. cyclopiani. Length 

 1,300 mm. (tail 290). 



Hab. — From the Potomac river to Florida and New Orleans. 



SEMINATRIX Cope. 



Am. Nat., 1895, 678, and Rep. Nat. ]\Ias., 993; Contia (part) Cope, 

 I. c, 599; Tropidonotus (part) Boul., I. c, I, 192. 



jNIaxillary teeth smooth, slightly increasing posteriorly, tin last 

 two abruptly enlarged ; body rather stout ; head small and slightly 

 distinct; head scales normal; one loreal; nasal half divided; no 

 scale pits; scales smooth on body, sometimes faintly keeled on the 

 tail. 



Hab. —Florida. 



Seminatrix pygsea Cope. 



Contia pygcea Cope, Proc. Acad. Pbila., 1871, 222, and I. c, 600; S. 

 pygcE'/s Cope, Am. Nat., 1895, 678, and Rep. Nat. Mas., 993 ; Tropi- 

 donotus pygceus Boul., I. c, I, 228. 



Size small, tail short; 20-24 maxillary ]teeth, smooth and slightly 

 increasing posteriorly, the last two abruptly enlarged; mandibular 

 teeth about 20, subequal; head scales normal; internasals small; 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



oculars 1-2; temporals 1-2, the anterior elongated; upper labials 

 variable (in six which I have examined three have 7, one has 

 7-8, one has 8 and one has 9); 17 rows of scales, smooth on the 

 body, often faintly keeled on the tail; ventrals 118-130; subcau- 

 dals 32-54. Lustrous brownish black above, with a faint pale 

 longitudinal line on each scale, most strongly marked on the sides; 

 belly yellow or salmon color, each ventral with a small black bar 

 on the exterior and outer margin. Length 484 ram. (tail 109) ; 

 of another specimen 330 mm. (tail 50). 



Hab. — Florida. 



This species was included by Mr. Boulenger in his comprehensive 

 genus Tropidonotus, but the smooth body scales and absence of 

 scale pits, together with the wide difference in form and color pat- 

 tern, appear to me to Avarrant generic separation. I have observed 

 that in captivity these little snakes are fond of hiding under stones 

 or bark in moist soil, and this habit is confirmed by ^Ir. Lcennberg.^' 

 On the whole, I suspect that pygcea is a degenerating Tropidonotus 

 in process of acquiring subterranean habits. It is possible that the 

 light line on the dorsal scales may indicate the former presence of 

 keels, but lately lost. 



HELICOPS Wagler. 



Syst. Amph., 170 (1830); Liodytes Cope, /. c, 6G6; Uelicops Boul., 

 I. c, I, 272. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, posterior slightly longest, no interspace; 

 one lorcal ; one iuternasal; two nasals; body rather stout; scales 

 more or less keeled, usually without pits; anal divided. 



Hab. — Florida, tropical America and Africa, southern Asia. 



Helicops alleni Garman. 



Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 1874, 92; Liodytes allenii Cope, I. c. , 

 667, and Kep. Nat. Mus., 1013 ; Helicops alleni Boul., I. c, I, 275. 



Maxillary teeth 16-18, syncranterian; mandibular teeth 18-20, 

 subequal; body short and stout; head slightly distinct; tail short; 

 head scales normal, except that the intcrnasal is single; oculars 

 1-3, the anterior occasionally extending upwaxxl to meet the fron- 

 tal; tempoi'als 1-2. In one specimen in my own collection the 

 parietals extend to the labials, behind the iiost-oculars ; upper 

 labials 7 or 8; scales in 19 rows, smooth excepting on the tail, 

 where a few rows are more or less distinctly keeled ; as a rule scale 



^^ Proc. V. 8. Nat. Mus., 1894, p. 323. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPPIIA. 41 



pits are absent, but in one specimen which I have examined they 

 are irregularly present; ventrals 121-129; subcaudals 58-63. 



A dark brown dorsal area six to eight scales wide, on each side 

 of this a lighter olive stripe two rows wide, then a dark lateral 

 stripe from the third to the fifth row ; belly and lal)ials yellow. 

 Length 484 mm. (tail 110). 



Hab. — Florida. 



STORERIA n. and G. 



Cat. No. Am. Serp., 135 (1853); Cope, I. c, 074, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 1000 ; Ischiiogiiathus^^ (part) Boul., I. c, I, 285. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; no loreal ; two nasals; two inter- 

 nasals; scales keeled without pits, in 15-17 rows; anal divided; 

 size small ; head distinct. 



Hab. — North and Central America. 



17 rows; 1 preocular; ventrals whitish, . . . . 1. S. dekayi. 

 15 rows; 2 preoculars; ventrals reddish, . 2. S. occipitomaculata. 



Storeria dekayi Hoi brook. 



Tropidonotus dekayi Holb., No. Am. Herp., Ill, 53, PL XIV (1842) ; 

 8. dekayi B. and G., I. c, 135 ; Cope, I. c, 675, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 

 1000 ; Ischnocjnaihus dekayi Boul., I. c, I, 286. 



Head scales normal ; no loreal ; two nasals, nostril generally 

 between them; oculars 1-2; temporals 1-1 (2); upper labials 7; 

 scales in 17 rows, notched at the tip; ventrals 120-140; subcaudals 

 40-63. Length 350 mm. (tail 70). 



Grayish to reddish brown or olive above, with a lighter dorsal 

 stripe about three scales wide, bordered by a row of black dots or 

 a black line, sometimes traces of a second and third alternating 

 series on the sides; belly w^iitish, with black dots on the ends of 

 the ventrals. 



Hab. — North America and Mexico, east of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains. 



^^ There is possibly a question as to actual piiority of publication between 

 Storeria B. and G. and Jschnognatlius Dum. and Bib., both bearing the 

 date 1853 ; the paper of Dumenl and Bibron having been read before the 

 Academie des Sciences, November 2, 1852, and the Cat. of No, Am. Ser- 

 petits being accepted for publication in the same month. Both genera Avere 

 established upon S. dekayi, but as the definition given by Baird and Giraid 

 is much more complete, usage warrants the retention of their name. Boul- 

 enger has much extended fschndf/nathus and includes in it both Clonophis^ 

 kirtlandi and Tropidoclonium lineutum. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau., 



Storeria occipitomaculata Slorer. 



IVopidonotus occipilomiculatns Sfcorer, Eep. Rept. Mas?., 230 (1839); 

 *S'. occipitomaculatus B. and G., /. c, 137 ; Cope, I. c, 6~o, and Rep. 

 Nat. Mus., 1003 ; /. occijniomaculatus Boul., I. c, I, 287. 



Head sciitellatiou like S. deJcayi, but there are two preoculars 

 and five or six upper labial.s; the nostril is usually in the pre-nasal; 

 15 rows of scales. The size and proportions are similar. Color 

 of the back much the same, but the vertebral stripe is less distinct 

 and occasionally the outer row is lighter; belly salmon color in life 

 with the ends of the ventrals clouded with darker; a light blotch 

 on the vertex with a smaller one on each side of it, and a light 

 S2)ot on the posterior labials. 



Hab. — North America, east of the Rocky jNIouutains. 



CLONOPHIS Cope. 



Prop. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1888, .391 ; I. c, 674 ; Tropidonotus (part) Cope, 

 Kep. Nat. 3Ius., 995 ; Ischnognathus (part) Boul., I. c, I, 285. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; one loreal; one nasal; two 

 iuternasals; size small, head not distinct; scales keeled; anal 

 divided; head not distinct. 



Hall. — North America. 



Clonophis kirtlandi Keun. 



Recjiiia kirtlandii Kenn.,Pi-oc. Acad. Phila., 1856, 9'5 ; Clonoplm Icirt- 

 landii Cope., I. c, 674; Tropidonotus kirtlandii Cope, Rep. Nat. 

 Mus., 995 ; IschnogriUthus kirtlandi Boul., I. c, I, 286. 



Head plates normal; 1 nasal, usually half divided; oculars 1-2; 

 temporals 1-1 (2); upper labials 6; scales in 19 rows, all keeled; 

 ventrals 123-133; subcaudals 50-59. Length 496 mm. (tail 115). 



Brown above with a dorsal series of large dark spots and a small 

 alternating series on the sides; belly yellowish or reddish, with a 

 black spot at the end of each ventral ; labials yellowish. 



Hab. — Ohio to Michigan. 



TROPIDOCLONIUM Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Pliila., 1860, 76; /. c, 666, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1011; 

 Ischnofjnathus (part) Boul., I. c, I, 285. 



INIaxillary teeth smooth, equal; one loreal; one nasal; two 

 internasals; size rather small; head not distinct; scales keeled; anal 

 entire. Resembles Clonophis, but has the anal single. 



Hab. — North America. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILA DELPiriA. 43 



Tropidoclonium lineatum Ilallowell. 



Microps Uncatus Hall., Proc. Acad. Phila., 1850,241 ; T. lineatum Cope, 

 I. c, 6Q6, and Kep. Nat. Mus., 1011; Ischnognathus lineatus Boul., 

 I. c, I, 289. 



Head plates normal; oculars 1-2; temporals 1-2 (1); upper 

 labials 5 or G ; scales in 19 rows, tlie two outer only faintly keeled; 

 ventrals 138-148 ; suhcaudals 34-37. Length 350 ram. (tail 48). 



Grayish brown w^'th a light vertebral stripe, bordered by a ro^v 

 of black dots; a light lateral stripe on the second and third rows; 

 belly light with two longitudinal series of black spots, more distinct 

 posteriorly. 



Hab. — Ohio to northei'u Texas. 



AMPHIARDIS Cope. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1888, 391 ; I. c, 67o, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1008 ; 

 Boul., I. c, I, 290. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; one loreal; two nasals; two 

 internasals; no preocular, the loreal extending to the eye; scales 

 keeled; anal divided; size small; body rather stout; head not 

 distinct; tail short. 



Hab. — Texas. 



Amphiardis inornatus Garman. 



Virginia iiiornntu Garm., No. Am. Kept., 97 (1883) ; A. inornatus Cope, 

 I. c, 675, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 1009 ; Boul., I. c, 1, 290. 



Head scales normal ; two internasals; two nasals; no preocular; 

 loreal long, and ^vitli the prefrontals, entering the orbit; one post- 

 ocular; upper labials 5; temporals 1-1; scales in 17 rows, lus- 

 trous, the outer only faintly keeled; ventrals 125-129; subcaudals 

 36. Length 260 mm. (tail 45). 



Brownish olive above; belly white, base of ventrals dusky. 



Hab. — Two specimens known, only from central Texas 



HALDEA B. and G. 



I. c, 122 ; Cope, I. c, G75, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1009 ; Boul., I. c, 1, 

 290. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, subequal; one loreal; two nasals; one 

 internasal; no preocular; scales keeled without pits; anal divided; 

 size small, body slender, head distinct, tail short. 



Hab. — North America. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Haldea striatula L. 



Coluber Htriatidm L., Syst Nat., Ed. XII, 37.5 (1766); IlnUea stri- 

 atula B. and G., I. c, 122 ; Cope, I. c, 676, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1009 ; 

 Boul., I. c, I, 291. 



Only one internasal; head plates otherwise normal; loreal long 

 and reaching the eye; no preocular; 1 post-ocular; temporals 1-1; 

 upper labials 5; .scales in 17 rows; ventrals 120-135; subcaudals 

 36-50. Length 250 mm. (tail 45). 



Uniform reddish or grayish brown above; salmon color under- 

 neath; sometimes an indistinct light band across the parietals. 



Hab. — Virginia to Minnesota and south to Texas. 



SPILOTES Wagler. 

 Syst. Amph.. 179 (1830); Georr/ia B. and G., I. c, 92 ; Spilotes Cope, 

 I. c, 636 ; Spilotes and Coluber (part) Boul., I. c. II, 2:3,24 ; Comp- 

 sosoma Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 857. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, nearly equal; head scales normal; 

 loreal sometimes absent; one preocular; scales smooth or keeled with 

 two pits, sometimes in an even number of rows;" anal entire; size 

 large ; head moderately distinct; body sometimes compressed on 

 the back. 



Hab. — North and South America. 



Spilotes corals Boie. 



Coluber corais Boie, Isis, 1827, 537. 



This large species ranges from the southern United States to 



Brazil ; typical corals is South American, but there are several 



subspecies, one of which only, enters the United States. 



Spilotes corais couperi Holbrook. 



Coluber couperii Holb., No. Ara. Herp., Ill, 75, PI. 16 (1842); Georgia 

 Couperii and G. obsoleta B. and G., I. c, 92, 158; <S'. c. couperii 

 Cope, I. c, 037; Coluber corais (part) Bonl., (. c, II, 31 ; Comp- 

 sosoma corais couperii Cope, Rep. Nat. Mns., 858. 



Maxillary teeth 17-18, slightly enlarged posteriorly; mandibu- 

 lar teeth about 16, a little longer in front; internasals small; t^^o 

 nasals; loreal quadrangular; oculars 1-2; temporals 2-2 ; upper 

 labials 8 (7), either the fifth or sixth small and triangular; scales 

 smooth in 17 rows; ventrals 184-198; subcaudals 60-73. 



Lustrous black above; belly slaty black; on the anterior ven- 



'' Tlie restriction of this genus to .snakes having the dorsal rows in even 

 number does not appear to me justifiable. The type of Spilotes Wagler is 

 .S'. pullatus, which species alone, Boalensrer admits in the genus. It, how- 

 ever, has the scales frequently in an odd number ; two specimens from 

 Trinidad, formerly in the Zoiilogical Garden, had 15 and 17 rows respectively 

 iProc. Acad. Phila., 1893, 4^2). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADKLPIIIA. 45 



trals dark red ofteu appears, which usually shows plainly on the 

 chin ; upper labials light, Avith red or blackish margins. This 

 species is one of the largest of North American snakes; in Florida 

 it reaches about 1900 mm. (tail 350), and along the lower Rio 

 Grande, in Texas, it exccds those dimensions. 



Hab. — Georgia and Florida to eastern Texas; northern IMexico. 



COLUBER L. 



Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 216 (1758); Scotoiihis B. and G., I. c, 7:i ; Elaphis 

 (part) D. and B., I. c, VII, 241 ; Coluber Cope, /. c, 630, and liep. 

 Nat. Mus., 825 ; Coluber (part) Boa!., I. c, II, 24. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal ; one loreal ; two nasals; two inter- 

 nasals; one preocular; two prefrontals; scales in 19-35 rows; 

 generally more or less keeled, with two pits; anal divided; size 

 moderately large; head distinct. 



Hab. — Northern hemisphere. 



Reliable specific characters, drawn from the scutellation, are want- 

 ing in the American species of Coluber. The proportions of the 

 frontal and parietal plates, upon which some stress has been laid, 

 are so variable with age and in individuals, that little importance 

 can be attached to them singly; except that in vulpinus, and still 

 more in llndhehneri, the anterior border of the frontal is wide and 

 the lateral angles are obtuse, so that the plate is often subtrian- 

 gular. Cope divides the species into sections, according to the 

 number of anterior temporals, but I find them by no means con- 

 stant enough to serve that purpose. The number of veutrals and 

 subcaudals is not diagnostic, the limits of variability overlapping 

 in most species; although quaclrivittatus, a long-tailed species, has 

 the largest number of subcaudals, and vidjnnus, which is short 

 and thick, has the least. There are fairly constant difl^erences in 

 pattern and color, and upon these, with a totality of other charac- 

 ters, they may be divided with some certainty. 



Key to the American Species. 



a. — Scales smooth, or fi to 13 rows weakly keeled: 



Light gray with brown spots, 1. C. emoryi. 



Red with brick-red spots, 2. (7. guttatus. 



Yellow with four brown stripes, . . o. C qxiadrivittaiiis. 

 h. — Scales with 9 to 21 rows more strongly keeled: 

 9-11 rows keeled; yellow with distinct spots, 



4. C. vulpinus. 



9-21 rows keeled; black above, or yellow with spots; lateral 



spots elongated, 5. C. obsoletns. 




4G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Coluber guttatus L. 



Sysfc. Nat., Ed. XII, 386 (1766); Scotophis fjuttatm B. and G., I. c, 

 78; C. guttatus and C. fj. sellatus Cope, I. c, 633, and Rep. Nat. 

 Mns., 833, 836 ; C, guttatus (part) BouL, I. c, II, 39. 



Froutal a trifle longer than ])road, rather broad behind, usually 

 a little shorter than the snout; oculars 1-2; temporals 2-3 (4); 

 upper labials 8, fourth and fifth entering the orbit; 11 or 12 lower 

 labials, five touching anterior chin shields ; scales usually in 

 27 rovFs (rarely 29), very slightly keeled on about five rows; 

 ventrals 215-240; subcaudals 61-79. Length 1200 mm. (tail 

 190). 



Light red, paler on the sides; dorsal blotches darker red with 

 black borders and a narrow margin of dark red outside of the 

 black ; the dorsal spots reach to about the seventh row of scales ; 

 below these there is a second alternating series of smaller spots, 

 which sometimes have a tendency to run together longitudinally, 

 and a third series on the ends of the ventrals and the two outer 

 rows. lu some specimens the dorsal spots are wider, and the 

 laterals are mostly absent or form an indistinct longitudinal 

 stripe; this is C. (j. sellatus Cope, the type specimens of which had 

 29 rows of scales, but a very similar specimen in my own collec- 

 tion from Lake Kerr, Florida, has but 27. The color beneath is 

 yellowish white, with quadrangular blotches of black on the outer 

 ends of the ventrals. The head is usually, but not always, banded 

 above. 



Hab. — Virginia to Florida and west to the Mississippi river. 



Coluber quadrivittatus Holbrook. 



No. Am. Herp., 111,89, Plate XX (1842); Scotophis quadrivittatus B. 

 and G., I. c, 80 ; G. quadrivittatus and C. rosaceiis Cope, I. c, 633, 

 and Rep. Nat. Mus., 838, 837; C. obsoletus (part) BouL, I. c, II, 51. 



Frontal narrow behind, a little longer than broad in front; tem- 

 porals 2-2 (3); upper labials 8, occasionally 9, and in one example 

 7 on one side, the fourth and fifth entering the eye; lower labials 

 11 to 13, four or five touching the anterior chin shields; 27 rows 

 of scales, of which from five to thirteen are weakly keeled; ven- 

 trals 232-250; subcaudals 86-105 (one examined by me has the 

 abnormally small number of 66). 



Body color yellow or buft, sometimes faintly greenish, with four 

 longitudinal stripes of dark brown ; the laterals on the fourth and 

 part of the third and fifth, and the upper ones on the eleventh and 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 47 



part of the tenth and twelfth rows. In some specimens the body 

 color is dark chestnut. Underneath and on top of head yellow, 

 unmarked. The young in this species are spotted, the spots at 

 subsequent stages fusing into stripes. One specimen 1720 mm. long, 

 from Florida, now living in the Zoological Gardens, shows ihese 

 spots quite plainly outlined on the back, forty-one in number from 

 head to vent, with the stripes running across them. There are also 

 faint remains of lateral spots. This mixture of immature and adult 

 characters probably accounts for G. rosaceus Cope. Reaches a 

 length of 1800 mm. (tad 300). 

 Hab. — North Carolina to Florida. 



Coluber obsoletus Say. 



Long's Exp. to Rocky Mts., I, MO (1823). 



Frontal about equals the length of snout, rather broad in front; 

 anteiior temporals usually 2, but occasionally 1 or 3; posterior 

 temporals 3 (4); usually 8 upper labials, fourth and fifth in eye; 

 11 to 13 lower labials; scales in from 25 to 29 rows, from 9 to 21 

 of which are keeled; ventrals 224-258; subcaudals 75-86. 



The color ranges from black above to gray or yellowish with dark 

 spots; the lateral spots are more or less elongated ; head not dis- 

 tinctly banded in adults. Size medium to large and stout. 



Hab. — New England to the Gulf and west to the central plains. 



Three good color forms may be distinguished: 



Black above, sometimes with indistinct spots, . 1. C o. obsoletus. 

 Yellowish wnth lead-colored spots; red on sides, 



2. Co. lindheimeri. 



Gray or pale brown with brown spots, . . . 3. C. o. conjinis. 



Coluber obsoletus obsoletus Say. 



I. c, 140 ; Scotophis alleglieniensis B. and G., I. c, 73 ; O. obsoletus 

 obsoletus (part) Cope, I. c, 635, and Rep. Nat. Miis., 844; O. obso- 

 letus (part) Boul., I. c, II, 50. 



Frontal about equals or slightly exceeds the length of snout, 

 rather broad behind; temporals 2-3; 8 upper labials, fourth and 

 fifth in eye (one large specimen in the Academy's collection has 

 7, the third and fourth in eye ; in this snake the prefrontals are 

 only partially divided); lower labials 11, four or five touching the 

 anterior chin shields; 27 or 25 rows of scales, nine to seventeen 

 keeled (in adults usually fifteen or seventeen); ventrals 224-246; 

 subcaudals 75-90. 




48 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACA-DEMY OF [Jan., 



Color black above, brownish in the young; the dorsal spots are 

 indistinctly outlined, but not enough, as a rule, to make them out 

 except in young or newly-shed individuals. In some specimens 

 the skin on the sides is more or less red. The belly is usually 

 slaty black behind, yellow anteriorly, more or less maculated with 

 black blotches; throat and chin white; labials yellow, margined 

 with black. A living specimen from Pennsylvania, 1080 mm. 

 long, shows thirty indistinct dorsal spots, and has considerable red 

 skin on the flanks, which shows between but does not invade the 

 scales. Reaches a length of about 1850 mm. (tail 320). 



Hab. — Massachusetts to Illinois and southwest to Texas; rare 

 in Florida. 



Coluber obsoletus lindheimeri B. and G. 



Scofophis LincUieimerii B. and G., I. c, 74 ; C. o. obsoletus (part) 

 Cope, I. c, 635, and Kep. Nat. Mus., 844 ; C. obsoletus (part) Boul., 

 I. c, II, 50. 



Frontal about equal, or a trifle shorter than the snout; the an- 

 terior border about equals its length and the lateral angles are 

 obtuse, so that the shape is subtriangular; temporals 2(3)-3 (4); 

 8 upper labials (in one case 9), fourth and fifth in eye; 12 to 14 

 lower labials, from four to six touching the anterior chin shields; 

 scales in 27 or 29 rows (five have 27, three have 29, one has 31), 

 from 11 to 21 keeled, never very strongly ; ventrals 227-231; 

 subcaudals 70-81. 



Yellowish above with a dorsal series of dark lead-colored spots, 

 five or six scales long and thirteen to fifteen wide, the interspaces 

 of the body color are about two scales long and many of the scales 

 have lead -colored centres; another series of elongated blotches on 

 the' third to the seventh row; ventrals with dark spots on the 

 ends and outer scale rows, at intervals of several scoles, otherwise 

 yellowish white, often clouded posteriorly. The bases and margins 

 of many scales in the light interspaces are rusty red in every living 

 specimen that I have seen; this fades rapidly in alcohol. Top of 

 head is uniform lead color without bands. The eye is rather 

 large. Length 1525 mm. (tail 230). 



Hab.— Texas. 



The distinctness of the color pattern at all ages, the red on the 

 scales of the flanks, the slight but, as it appears to me, very gen- 

 eral difference in the shape of the frontal, with an ap))arently 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



circumscribed geographical range, are quite enough, in my opinion, 

 to compel recognition of this subspecies. 



Coluber obsoletus confinis B. and G. 



Scotophis confinis nnd S. Imtus B. and G., I. c, 76, 77 ; ElapJiis spil- 

 oides Dum. and Bib., I. c, VII, 209; Coluber confinis, G. sjnloides 

 and C. 0. Icmniscatas Cope, I. c, 633, 634, 63.5, and Hep. Nat. Mus., 

 829, 841, 849 ; G. Imtus (part) Boul., I. c, II, 49 ; C. Imtus Cope, Rep. 

 Nat. Mas., 850. 



Frontal rather longer than wide, a little longer than the snout ; 

 temporals 2 (l}-3; upper labials 8, fourth and fifth in eye; five 

 lower labials touching the anterior chin shields; scales in 27-25 

 rows, eleven or thirteen .slightly keeled; ventrals 231-258; sub- 

 caudals 75-96. 



Ashy or yellowish gray above, with dark brown dorsal spots 

 narrowly margined with black, five or six scales long and thirteen 

 to fifteen wide, longitudinally quadrate in shape ; interspaces about 

 two scales long; on the second to fifth rows the lateral spots are 

 elongated, and exhibit sometimes a disposition to form an indistinct 

 stripe; belly yellow, clouded posteriorly and with dark spots on 

 the ends of the ventrals and the outer scale rows ; a dark post- 

 ocular stripe, some indistinct mottling on borders of the labials, but 

 no distinct head bands in adults. 



Hab. — From Virginia to Florida, west to Missouri and Texas. 



I am not able to satisfy myself that spiloklea Dum, and Bib. and 

 Icetus B. and G. are distinct from the present form ; Cope, indeed, 

 places them in three different sections of Coluber, assigning a 

 different number of anterior temporals to each — one to confinis, two 

 to spiloides and three to Icetus. But the single specimen in his own 

 collection, considered by him to be confinis, has two, which is the 

 normal number; while the figures of Icetus given by Baird in 

 Marcy's Report of the Red River Exp., PL VI, and Pcic. R. R. 

 Survey, PL XXX, fig. 53, both represent that species as also 

 having two. (The three temporals in Cope's fig. 196 (p. 851) 

 have every appearance of abnoi'mality.) The difference in pattern 

 slated in the description of Icetus is probably accounted for by the 

 youth of the type, which is but 460 mm. long, while the occur- 

 rence of 25 rows, as in spiloides, is quite nr^rmal, and 29, as in 

 Icetus, would not be startling in C. o. confinis. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Coluber emoryi B. and G. 



Scotophis Emoryi B. and G., I. c, 157 ; O. emoryi Cope, I. c, 636, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mus., 852 ; C. giittatus (part) Boul., I. c, II, 39. 



Frontal rather long, but little shorter than the snout; temporals 

 2 (3)-3 (4); upper labials 8, fourth and fifth in eye; lower labials 

 11, five touching the anterior chin shields; scales in 27 rows (occ. 

 29), all smooth or sometimes a few faintly keeled; ventrals 210- 

 235 ; subcaudals 72-78. 



';" Ground color rather pale gray, with a dorsal row of olivaceous 

 brown blotches with black borders, three or four scales long and 

 ten or twelve wide, separated by interspaces 1^ to 2 scales long; a 

 second series of smaller alternating spots from the third to the 

 seventh rows, subcircular in shape; a third indistinct series oq 

 the second and third rows, and a fourth indicated on the outer 

 roAV and the ends of the ventrals; belly yellowish or Avhite with 

 irregular ashy blotches posteriorly ; top of head much banded, and 

 a dark oblique post-ocular stripe. The number of dorsal spots 

 varies greatly, those now living in the collection of the Zoological 

 Society ranging from thirty-one to fifty in number on the body, 

 and from seventeen to twenty-one on the tail. Length 1330 mm. 

 (tail 190). 



Hab. — Kansas to Texas; south to Chihuahua. 



Coluber vulpinus B. and G. 



Scotophis vulpinus B. and G., I. c, 75 ; C. vulpinus Cope, I. c, 633, 

 and Kep. Nat. Mus., 831 ; Boul., I. c, II, 49. 



Frontal shorter than snout, with anterior border about equal to 

 its length, and with obtuse lateral angles ; temporals 2-3 ; upjJer 

 labials 8, fourth and fifth in eye; lower labials 11, five touching 

 anterior chin shields; 25-27 rows of scales, nine to eleven feebly 

 keeled; ventrals 196-208; subcaudals 51-69; form stout. 



Ground color light brown; dorsal spots dark brown and quadrate 

 in shape, about four scales long and from eleven to thirteen wide ; 

 interspaces about two scales long. There are from 29-42 dorsal 

 spots on the body, and 8-14 on the tail; there is a subcircular 

 alternating series on the third to the seventh rows, and another of 

 square blotches on the outer row and the ends of tne ventrals; rest 

 of the belly yellow, with dark blotches in the middle, usually 

 involving two ventrals; anteriorly the belly is unmarked; no head 

 bands in the aduL, except the oblique post-ocular stripe; edges of 

 labials slightly margined; eye small. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF FHILADELnilA. 51 



Length about 1450 mm. (tail 230). C vulpimis is relatively 

 stouter, and has a shorter tail than the other American species of 

 Coliibei'. 



Hab. — Illinois to Minnesota; south to Nebraska. 



A snake belonging to this genus, collected at Fort Davis, Texas, 

 having 9 upper labials; 27 rows of scales, of which six are slightly 

 keeled; warm grayish ash color, with a series of narrow brown 

 dorsal spots, eighty in number, and the lateral series indistinct, was 

 described by Dr. Yarrow under the name of Coluber baircU in 

 Cope, Bullet in U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 17, p. 41 (1880). The speci- 

 men remains unique and its relations are consequently doubtful. 



RHINECHIS Michahelles. 



Wagl., loon. Amph., PI. 25 (1833); Cope, I. c, 637, and Eep. Nat. 

 Miis., 862 ; Coluber (part) BouL, I. c, II, 24. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; one loreal; one preocular; two 

 internasals; two nasals; rostral entering between the interuasals 

 and projecting anteriorly; scales smooth, with two pits, in 27-ol 

 rows; anal entire; size moderate; head small and slightly distinct. 



Hab. — Southwestern United States and Mexico. 



Rhinechis elegans Kenn. 



Arizona elegtois Kenn., U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv. Kept., 18, PI. 

 XIII (1859); Van Den., I. c, 193 ; Wdnechis elerjans Cope, I. c, 638, 

 and Rep. Nat. jNIus., 863 ; Coluber arizonce BouL, I. c, II, 66. 



Body not very stout; head slightly distinct; snout projecting; 

 rostral extending posteriorly between the internasals; two nasals; 

 oculars 1 (2)-2; loreal long and narrow; temporals 2-3 (4); 

 upper labials 8; scales iu 27-31 rows; ventrals 207-227; sub- 

 caudals 45-59. 



Brownish or reddish yellow above; a dorsal series of transvei'se 

 brown spots, eight or nine scrfles wide, edged with darker brown, 

 and two alternating series on each side, the upper one subcircular, 

 the lower indistinct and on the three outer scale rows; belly white 

 or yellowish without markings : a dark oblique streak behind the 

 eye and indistinct bands or spots on the head; a few small .spots 

 on the anterior labials. The largest of two specimens from Pecos, 

 Tex., now living in the Zoological Society's collection, measures 

 1100 mm. (tail 150). The dorsal interspaces are pink. 



Hab. — Texas to southern California and northern Mexico. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



PITYOPHIS llolljrook. 



Pituophis Holb., No. Am. Herp., IV, 7 (1842); B. and G., I c, 64; 

 Cope, I. c, 638, and Eep. Nat. Miis., 865 ; Coluber (part) Boul., I. c, 

 II, 24. 



]Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; rostral exteuded behind; one 

 loreal; one preocular with sometimes a small one beneath; tAvo 

 nasals; two internasals; four to six prefrontals; scales keeled with 

 pits in 29-35 rows; anal entire; size large; head moderately 

 distinct. 



Hab. — North America and Mexico. 



The species of Pityo])his within the United States may be deter- 

 mined upon the following grounds: P. melanohucus, from the 

 eastern States, has a high rostral, in most cases reaching the pre- 

 frontals, and has large dorsal spots, 26-35 in number, on the body ; 

 usually about the four outer rows of scales are smooth. 



P. sayi, from west of the Mississippi to the Rocky Mountains, 

 has the rostral less high, usually reaching about two-thirds of the 

 distance to the prefrontals, and has smaller spots, 40-60, on the 

 body, and usually seven or eight smooth rows of scales. 



P. catenifer, from the Pacific coast, west of the Sierra Nevada, 

 has a low rostral, usually not penetrating between the internasals, 

 and agrees generally in pattern with sayi. 



These characters of the rostral and the dorsal spots are fairly 

 constant, but examination of a considerable number of specimens 

 from the region of the Great Basin leaves no doubt in my mind 

 that the form found there intergrades with both catenifer and sayi, 

 and reduces them to subspecies. The two species recognized here 

 may in almost every case be distinguished by color characters 

 alone : 



Rostral high; no head bands; spots large and few, 



1. P. melanoleucus. 

 Rostral lower; head bands distinct; spots small and many, 



2. P. catenifer. 



Pityophis catenifer Blainville. 



Coluber catenifer BL, Nouv. Ann. du Mus., IV, 290, PI. 21, fig. 2 

 (1835). 



In this species the rostral varies from low and broad to high and 

 narrow above, penetrating sometimes between the internasals but 

 not reaching the prefrontals; prefrontals usually four, but occa- 




1901.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PIIILADF^LPIIIA. 53 



gionally six; preucular 1, with occasionally a small additional one 

 below; three post-oculars ; temporals 3-4 (5); upper labials 8 or 

 9 ; scales in 27-35 rows, from three to twelve outer rows smooth ; 

 the dorsal spots are quite small and range from 40-70 in number 

 on the body; three series of more or less defined spots on the sides; 

 the head is transversely banded between the orbits, from the orbit 

 vertically downward on the labials, and obliquely from the post- 

 oculars to the angle of the mouth; ventrals 205-243; subcaudals 

 50-72. 



The three subspecies may usually be distinguished by the shape 

 of the rostral : 



Rostral low and broad, 1. P. c. catenifer. 



Rostral higher, 2. P. c, hellona. 



Rostral highest, 3. P. e. sayi. 



Pityophis catenifer catenifer Blainville. 



Coluber catenifer BL, I. c, 290; Pltuophis catenifer, P. Wilkesii and 

 P. annectens B. and G., I. c, 69, 71, 72 ; P. catenifer Cope, I. c, €41, 

 and Eep. Nat. Mns., 876 ; Coluber catenifer (part) Boul., I. c, II, 

 67; P. catenifer Van Den., I. c, 195. 



In this Pacific coast form the rostral is lowest of all and reaches, 

 without penetrating, the internasals; upper labials 8 or 9; tem- 

 porals 2 (3)-4; scales in 29-35 rows, none strongly keeled and 

 from four to eleven smooth. Usually there are not more than 

 five smooth rows, but a large specimen from Fort Tejon, Cal. 

 (No. 3,800, Academy coll.), has eleven smooth on each side. 

 Very little reliance can be placed, however, on the number of 

 smooth rows in any gf the species of PUijophis, as they not infre- 

 quently vary in different parts of the same individual. Ventrals 

 205-230; subcaudals 50-70. 



Ground color yellowish or brownish ; there are usually 50-70 

 dorsal spots on the body, but sometimes these are as few as 36, 

 from 15-21 on the tail; anteriorly the spots are black, becoming 

 brownish toward the tail; belly yellowish, with a series of dark 

 spots on the ends of the ventrals and sometimes another ill-defined 

 series on the middle; the head bands are distinct. Length 1,900 

 mm. (tail 315). 



Hab. — Pacific coast west of the Sierra Nevada. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Pityophis catenifer bellona B. aud G. 



Churchillia bellona B. and G., Stans. Exp. Salt Lake, 350 (1852); P. 

 bellona (part) B. and G., I. f , 66, and Pac. K. R. Surv. Rept., PI. 

 XXIX, fig. 4(i ; P. sayi bellona Cope, I. c, 641, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 872 ; Coluber catenifer (part) and C. melanolcucus (part) Boul., 

 I. c., II, 67, 68 ; P. catenifer deserticola Slej., No. Am. Fauna, No. 

 7, Pt. II, 206. 



Tliis form appears to be found through the so-called Great 

 Basin, from Arizona northward to Utah and jS^evada. The rostral 

 is ahnost always higher than in P. c. catenifer, but less so than in 

 P. c. sayi; it commonly penetrates between the iuternasals about 

 one-third of their length. No. 3,978 Academy collection, from 

 Ogdeu, Utah, has the rostral barely touching the interuasals, as in 

 P. c. catenifer, aud has a maximum of six rows of smooth scales. 

 No. 3,782, from Owens' Valley, Cal., has the i-ostral penetrating 

 further, fully one-third, and has three rows of smooth scales. 

 No. 10,378, from Salt Lake, has the rostral as in No. 3,782. 

 This specimen, 1,040 mm. long, was taken in 1899, and has 

 sixty-four spots on the body, with seventeen on the tail; 31 rows 

 of scales, of which four are smooth; the colors are very distinct, 

 and on the posterior two-thirds of the body the light interspaces 

 are pink. Mr. Stejneger (/. c ) has applied the name c?eseHico/a 

 to this form, on the ground that bellona B. and G. is a synonym 

 of sayi. It is probably true that the type of bellona — now lost — 

 belonged to the plains form, but, as Prof. Cope points out, Baird's 

 plate in the Pacific R. R. Survey represents the one now under 

 consideration. In such a case, when there is a question as to abso- 

 lute invalidity, I see no good reason for supflantiug an old and 

 well-known name by a new one. The intensify of color, including 

 the pink tinge on the hinder half of the body, is hardly sufficient 

 for subspecific distinction, for even if it should be constant — and 

 some examples which have been four years in alcohol do not show 

 it — it is of no great importance, and Florida specimens of P. 

 vielanoleucHs would be quite as well entitled to separation on 

 account of their rufous tints. The size of this form seems to be 

 about as in P. c. catenifer. 



Hab. — California east of the Sierra Nevada; Utah and Nevada 

 south to Arizona and New Mexico. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 00 



Pityophis catenifer sayi Schlegel. 



Coluber sayi Sch., Ess. Phys. Serp., II, 157 (1837); PituopMs bellona 

 (part), P. McCUUanii and P. sayi B. and G., I. c, 66, 68, 151 ; P. 

 sayi sayi Cope. I. c, 641, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 870 ; Coluber melano- 

 leucus (part) Boul., I. c, II, 68. 



The rostral is narrow above and penetrates the internasals about 

 two-thirds of their length ; an inferior preocular is frequently 

 present; upper labials 8 or 9 ; scales in 27-3o rows, usually five 

 to nine smooth; the dorsal spots are larger and usually fewer in 

 number than in the other forms of catenifer, but an occasional 

 specimen exhibits an equally large number. There are sometimes 

 as few as forty, but two living specimens in my possession show 

 respectively fifty-three and sixty-nine; veutrals 215-230; sub- 

 caudals 50-62. 



The body color is yellowish or reddish brown ; the spots are 

 black anteriorly and more or less blackish brown posteriorly ; the 

 belly is yellowish, with a small dark blotch on the end of each 

 alternate ventral; labials margined with dark brown; the head 

 bauds are usually distinct, but in two large specimens from Pecos, 

 Tex. , they are almost obsolete. The largest I have measured is 

 1,990 mm, (tail 190); greatest circumference 210 mm. This 

 species doubtless reaches a length of over two metres. 



Hab. — The range is very extensive: from Canada to Mexico, 



between the Mississippi river and the Rocky Mountains. It has 



also been taken in Illinois. No. 4,689 Academy collection, from 



Vernon, British Columbia, is not distinguishable from it; in fact, 



in this specimen the posterior extension of the rostral approaches 



melanoleucus. 



PityopMs melanoleucus Daudin. 



Coluber melanoleucus Daud., Hist., des Rept., VI, 409 (1803); Pitu- 

 opMs melanoleucus B. and G., I. c, 65 ; Cope, I. c, 640, and Rep. 

 Nat. 3Ius., 867 ; Coluber melanoleucus (part) Boul., I. c, II, 68. 



In the eastern form the rostral reaches the extreme of elevation, 

 in many cases completely separating the internasals and being iu 

 contact with the prefrontals; usuall}^ four prefrontals; oculars 1-3, 

 sometimes a small sub-preocular; temporals small, 4 (3)-5; upper 

 labials 8; scales in from 27-33 rows, usually 27 or 29, of which 

 in most cases four to seven are smooth (in a large specimen from 

 New Jersey there are seven smooth rows anteriorly and four on 

 the hinder part of the body). 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.» 



Body color whitish or buff, h'ghter on the sides. The dorsal 

 spots are larger than in catenifer, and range from 25-35 on the 

 body and 5-8 on the tail; they are blackish brown, more or less 

 marked with paler brown on their centres; two or three series of 

 rather indistinct spots on the sides; belly ivory white, with brown 

 spots on the ends of the ventrals at intervals of about four 

 scales. There are no distinct head bands in adults, though they 

 are shown by the young. The top of the head is yellow, each 

 plate more or less marked by pale brown; labials margined Avith 

 brown. Of nearly one hundred Florida specimens which I have 

 seen, all were uniformly tinged with rusty brown over the whole 

 upper surface. Ventrals 210-230; subcaudals 52-65. The largest 

 which I have measured was 1,837 mm. long (tail 185). 



Hab. — New Jersey to Ohio, and south to the Gulf coast; most 

 common along the seacoast. 



ZAMENIS AVagler. 



Syst. Amph., 188 (1830); Bascanion and Masticoplm B. and G., I. c, 

 93, 98 ; Bascanivtm Cope, I. c, 621 ; Zamenis fpart) BouL, I. c, 1, 

 379, and Cope, Eep. Nat. 3Ius., 787. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, increasing gradually behind, with some- 

 times a slight interspace; one loreal; two preoculars, the lower 

 very small; two nasals; two internasals; scales smooth or faintly 

 keeled, with pits; anal divided; body long and slender; head 

 distinct. 



Hab. — Europe, Asia and North America. 



The North American species (= Bascanium B. and G. ) have a 

 purely syncranterian dentition and smooth scales. The forms 

 inhabiting the southern tier of states are puzzling in the extreme. 

 To reach conclusions which shall at least have the merit of con- 

 sistency, the changes which take place with growth in the best- 

 known species from the eastern Gulf States, Z. f. flagellum, must 

 be considered. Here the young are pale brownish with narrow, 

 darker cross-bauds on the whole upper surface; an occasional 

 specimen also shows indistinct wider cross-bands anteriorly. The 

 outer four or five rows of scales (rather more anteriorly) have 

 pale edges, leaving a narrow dark line on the centre of each scale, 

 giving the appearance of four or five narrow broken stripes 

 on the sides. In eastern examples these markings usually disap- 

 pear with age, although the cross-bands occasioually persist. From 

 Texas westward there are forms in which the cross-bands have 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



become fixed, and others in wliich more or less of the lateral 

 stripes have become likewise permanent, and even more distinct, 

 although in these last the narrow cross-bands have disappeared in 

 the young, which are striped. It must also be borne in mind that 

 there is a marked inequality in the color intensity of all the 

 American species, as there is a tendency for the color to remain 

 pale on the hinder half of the body, involving the disappearance 

 of the pattern. This is the case even in the uniformly colored 

 species, as Z. e. constrictor, in which the change to the light colors 

 of v/estern specimens first shows on the tail, and Z. f. pkeiis, in 

 which the bases of the scales posteriorly are pale. 



The relative proportions in width of the hinder part of the 

 frontal and supraocular plates are also growth characters and 

 therefore irregular, and in my belief will bear only a small part of 

 the weight which lias been placed upon them. 



Duly considering the various combinations in adults, of these 

 early characters, I conclude that the Z. flagellam group extends 

 from Florida to California, with two forms in addition to the 

 typical one which demand recognition ; these are Z. f. piceus and 

 Z. f. frenatus. The striped forms, extending from Texas to Cali- 

 fornia, have become differentiated to the point of wider separation, 

 and seem to me to fall into two species: Z. txeniatus (with a sub- 

 species Z. t. ornatiis) and Z. lateralis. Z. schotti B. and G. and 

 Z. semilineatus Cope, I can regard only as fortuitous examples of 

 tceniatas and lateralis respectively. 



This is almost a complete reversal of the views held by Prof. 

 Cope, but the facts appear to me to indicate that the subspecies 

 here admitted are tending in the direction of fixed characters, 

 while those rejected are no more than instances of incomplete 

 development. 



Key to the Species. 



A. — Adults not striped; 17 rows of scales: 



7 upper labials; black, bluish, olive or green, 



1. Z. constrictor. 



8 upper labials; pale brown, or dark in front, 



2. Z. flacjelhon. 

 B. — AVith stripes on the sides: 



17 rows; brown w'ith a narrow yellow stripe on third and 



fourth rows, 3. Z. lateralis. 



15 rows; brown with 3-5 narrow dark stripes on sides, 



4. Z. tieniatus. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau., 



Zameuis constrictor L. 



Coluber constrictor L., Sj-st. Nat., Ed. X, 216 (1758). 



Body slender with long tail; head scales normal; frontal rather 

 more than half the width of supraoculars, behind; two nasals; 

 one loreal; oculars 2-2; temporals 2-2 ; upper labials 7 (rarely 

 8); scales in 17 rows; ventrals 164-189; subcaudals 79-110. 



Length 1,525 mm. (tail one-fourth to one-fifth). 



Eastern specimens are black al)ove and slate color beneath ; west 

 of the Mississippi they are usually green or olive above, yellow 

 beneath. There are transitional stages between these extremes and 

 they are good subspecies : 



Size larger; black above, slate color beneath, 1. Z. c. constrictor-. 

 Size smaller; green or olive above; yellow beneath, 



2. Z. c. Jiaviventris. 



Zamenis constrictor constrictor I- 



I. c, 216; Bascanion constrictor B. and G., I. c, 93 ; B. constrictor 

 (part) Cope, I. c, 6i3 ; Zamenis constrictor (part) Boul., I. c, I, 

 387, and Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 791. 



Examples from the east are lustrous black above; belly slate 

 color; chin and throat white. One specimen from Pennsylvania 

 now living in the Zoological Gardens presents the curious anomaly 

 of a distinctly brown snout. In the western portion of its range 

 it becomes bluish or olive black and the belly gets lighter. The 

 young are unlike the adults, being gray, spotted or cross-banded 

 with darker. Ventrals 175-189; subcaudals 83-110. The length 

 of the largest I have seen was 1,470 mm. (tail 310). 



Hab. — United States east of the central plains; northern 

 Mexico. 



Zamenis constrictor flaviventris Say. 



Coliiher jhuilventrls S.iy, Long's Exp., IT, 185 (1823) ; Bascanion flavi- 

 ventris and B. vetustus B. and G., I. c, 96, 97 ; B. constrictor (part) 

 Cope, I. c, 623 ; Zamenis constrictor (part) Boul., I. c, I, 3S7, and 

 Cope, Kep. Nat. Mus., 791 ; B. c. vetustnm Van Den., I. c, 183 ; Z. 

 stejnegerianus Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 797. 



Size rather smaller and body more slender than in B. c. con- 

 strictor ; the scutellation is similar, but an eighth labial is more 

 fi-equentiy present; ventrals 164-188; subcaudals 79-95. 



Length about 1,100 mm. (tail rather more than one-fourth). 

 In examples from the plains the color is often bright green above 

 and bright yellow underneath; chin and throat paler yellow; such 

 specimens arc usual in Kansas and Oklahoma, ^yestward and on 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -39 



•tl>e Pacific coast the color darkens to olive, more or less yellowish 

 green beneath. 



I see no reason for regarding Z. stejnegerianns Cope as anything 

 more than the present subspecies with eight labials. The sub- 

 division of the loreal is so obviously abnormal that it is not worth 

 considering. The type and only specimen came from southeastern 

 Texas. 



Hab. — United States west of the Mississippi river. 



Zamenis flagellum Shaw. 



Coluhcr jiac/dlum Shaw, Gen. Zool., Ill, Pt. 11,475 (1802); Stej., Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1894, 595. 



This species has the scutellation of Z. constrictor, but the labials 

 are 8 ; the frontal has half the width of the supraoculars behind ; 

 the muzzle is more elevated and the tail is longer; ventrals 184-- 

 210; subcaudals 80-112. 



The young are cross-banded, and this pattern persists in some 

 cases until they are grown. 



Hab. — Southern United States from Florida to California. 



There appear to be three color forms : 



Pale brown; dark brown anteriorly, ... 1. Z. f. fiagellum. 

 Brown ; narrow cross-bands in front, . . . 2. Z. f. frenatum. 

 Dark brown; pink beneath, Z. Z. j. jiiceus. 



Zamenis flagellum flagellum Shaw. 



I. c, 475 ; Mastic oplids flag elllformia and Coluber testaceus B. and G., 

 I. c, 98, 150 ; B. fl(ir/elliforme Cope, I. c, 625; Zamenis flagelU- 

 formis (part) Boul., I. c., I, 389 ; Z. /.flagellum (part) Cope, Rep. 

 Nat Mus., 799. 



Body slender with very long tail ; the upper preocular very 

 large; upper labials 8 (rarely 7); scales in 17 rows; ventrals 

 184-210; subcaudals 80-112. 



Reaches an extreme length of 1,800 mm. (tail 385 to 430). In 

 adults the head and anterior portion of the body is blackish brown, 

 then dark brown back to the posterior half or third of the body, 

 which is pale yellowish brown, each scale with a darker basal mar- 

 gin ; belly yellowish posteriorly, black or brown under the dark 

 anterior portion, somewhat spotted behind; sometimes each ven- 

 tral is mai'gined with brown ; generally a light spot on the pre- 

 oculars; chin and throat white, more or less spotted with brown. 



The young have narrow cross-bands on the body which are 

 sometimes retained to maturity. A Florida specimen 1,780 mm. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



long, now living in the Zoological Gardens, shows these bands on 

 the pale posterior portion of the body after shedding. Another, 

 also from Florida, has indistinct wide cross-bands as in Z. t. 

 ornafus. 



Examples from west of the Mississippi are often of paler colors, 

 with dark heads, and adults sometimes show the wide cross-bands 

 and even indications of the liglit lateral stripes of ornatus. 



I was formerly of the opinion that testaceuni Say should be 

 admitted as a pale desert form, but examination of a considerable 

 number of living specimens fi'om central Texas and westward, 

 satisfy me that occasional individuals only, show its extreme pale- 

 ness. 



Hab. — South Carolina and Florida to Arizona; northern Mexico. 

 Zamenis flagellum frenatus Stej. 



N. Am. Fauna, No. 7,208 (1893); Z. f. ■flagellum (part) Cope, Rep. 

 Nat. Mus., 802 ; Z. fiagelliformis (part) Boul., I. c, I, 389. 



Mr. Stejneger has proposed to regard as a subspecies the form 

 of Z. fiftfjelhim from Arizona and westward with permanent cross- 

 bands on the anterior portion of the body. This is the retention 

 of a juvenile character which was referred to under the preceding 

 subspecies, and which would doubtless be moi'e evident in eastern 

 specimens, were it not iov the dark color which pervades those parts 

 in the adult; but there is so strong a disposition for this character 

 to become permanent in the far west, that Mr. Stejneger is prob- 

 ably right in recognizing the form. 



The following description is taken from a beautiful living speci- 

 men lately received from Yuma, Ariz., through the kindness of 

 ]Mr. Herbert Brown : 



17 rows of scales; 8 upper labiais; veutrals 193; sub-caudals 

 100; length 1,400 mm. (tail 345). Body color rather pale brown 

 extending to the ventrals; most of the scales are darker at the 

 tip and faintly edged with pink; the lower edge of the outer 

 row and the adjacent ends of the ventrals are whitish, forming an 

 indistinct line, which is more obvious anteriorly and disappears 

 before reaching the tail; the three or four outer rows are faintly 

 darker in the centre, suggesting the dark lateral stripes of Z. 

 tcenlatus. The anterior fourth of the body is crossed by indistinct 

 bands, one and a half to two scales wade; top of head rather 

 darker brown, witli a light spot on the pre- and post-oculars; 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



indications of a light line from the nostril to the eye ; upper 

 labials yellow on the lower margin, more broadly behind; belly 

 yellowish, much clouded Avith pink, which tends to form longitu- 

 dinal stripes in front; throat and chin yellow, spotted with dark 

 brown. 



Hab. — Arizona, Nevada, Utah and southern California. 



Zamenis flagellum piceus Cope. 



Bascaniuni piceum Cope, I. c, 6'25 ; Z. flarjeUiformis (part) BouL, I. c, 

 I. 389 ; B.f. piceus Cope, Kep. Nat. Mus., 804 ; B. pkeiiiii Stej., No. 

 Am. Fauna, No. 7, 209. 



The type specimen, from Camp Grant, Arizona, has 19 rows of 

 scales; 17 is probably the usual number, as Mr. Stejueger mentions 

 one with that number, which agrees with a living example received 

 at the Zoological Gardens in 1894 from Tucson; this speci- 

 men had 8 upper labials on one side and 9 on the other. The 

 color in life was a rich dark brown wiih a purplish tinge, poste- 

 riorly most of the scales were light brown at the base; the belly was 

 pink slightly spotted with dusky, Avhich increased anteriorly until 

 the throat was nearly black ; there was a little pink on the pre- 

 oculars and lower labials; rest of head very dark. The pink 

 rapidly faded to yellow in alcohol. This specimen is now in the 

 Academy's collection. Ventrals 196; subcaudals 108; length 

 1,650 mm. (tail 380), Cope's specimen measured 1,263 mm, and 

 the tail was proportionately longer (355 mm), 



Hab.— The three specimens known ai-e from southern Arizona. 



Zamenis lateralis Ilallowell. 



LeptopMs lateralis Hall., Proc. Acad. Phila. 1853, 237 ; Buscanium 

 latcrale lai er ale Coi>e, I. c, 628 ; Zamenis tseniat us (part) Boul., I. c, 

 I, 300 ; B. laterale Van Den., I. c, 188 ; Z. lateralis lateralis and 

 Z. semilineatus Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 808, 805. 



Scales in 17 rows; upper labials 8; tail between one-third and 

 one-fourth of the length; ventrals 190-199 ; subcaudals 105-123, 

 Length about 1,500 mm. 



Brown above with a narrow yellow stripe on the third and fourth 

 rows, sometimes extending to the tail and often narrowly bordered 

 with black; belly yellow with a few dark spots under the throat 

 and chin; no spots on top of head; a more or less distinct light 

 spot on the temporals and a light line from the nostril to the eye; 

 labials light, a little spotted, 



Hab. — Arizona and southern California. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Zamenis taeniatus Hallow ell. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1852, 181. 



This species is characterized by the presence of 15 rows of 

 scales, 8 upper labials, and longitudinal stripes on the sides; 

 frontal about half the width of supraoculars posteriorly ; tail very 

 long; ventrals 188-210; subcaudals 120-157. The young are 

 striped. 



Hab. — Western Texas to California. 



Pale brown; often wide cross-bands; two pale lateral stripes, 



1. Z. t. ornatus. 



Dark brown; no cross-bands; 3 or 4 narrow dark lateral stripes, 



2. Z. t. tceniatus. 



Zamenis taeniatus ornatus B. and G. 



Mastkophis ornatus B. and G., I. c, 102. 159 ; Baseanium tmniatum 

 subs, ornatum Cope, Ball. U. S. Nat. IMus., I, 40 ; B. ornatum Cope, 

 I. c, 629; Zamenis tceniatus (part) Boul., I. c, I, 390; Z. ornatus 

 Cope, liep. Nat. Mus., 813. 



Scales usually in 15 rows (No. 5,362 Academy coll., from 

 Arizona, has 17); ventrals 200-206; subcaudals 130-152. 



Length about 1,700 mm. (tail 565). 



Pale brown above, with more or less distinct wide cross-bands of 

 purplish brown on the back; the whole upper surface is sometimes 

 suffused with the darker color, in which case the cross-bands are 

 obscure or absent; a yellowish longitudinal line on the outer row 

 and the edge of the ventrals, and another on the third and fourth 

 rows; the upper one is edged with black and sometimes there is a 

 faint dark line through the middle of it; belly yellow, more or less 

 blotched. 



Hab. —Western Texas. 



Zamenis tseniatus taeniatus Hallowell. 



Leptophis tceniatus Hall., Proc. Acad. Phila., 1852, 181 ; Masticopliis 

 tceniatus and 31. Schotti B. and G., I. c, 103, 160 ; B. tceniatum and 

 B. Schotti Cope, I. c, 629; Zamenis tceniatus (part) Boul., I. c, I, 

 390 ; B. tceniatus Van Den., I. c., 190 ; Z. schottii and Z. tceniatus 

 Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 811, 815. 



Snout and muzzle rather long and narrow; body slender and tail 

 very long; scales in 15 rows (very rarely 17); upper labials 8; 

 temporals 2-2; ventrals 188-209; subcaudals 120-157. 



Length about 1,300 mm. (tail 370). 



Yellowish brown to dark brown, the outer four or five rows 

 lighter, each having a narrow black line running on the centre, and 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6S 



usually another on the edge of the ventrals; most of the scales 

 on the rest of the dorsal region have dark centres; yellowish 

 beneath, without spots except sometimes on the throat; top of head 

 dark; an indistinct light line from the nostril to the eye; a light 

 spot on both pre- and post-oculars; labials yellow, a little spotted. 



I am unable to formulate a valid distinction between 7j. schotti 

 B. and G. and this species ; the stripes appear not to run as far 

 back, but they are variable in this respect in Z. t. keniatm, and 

 their disappearance on the tail is doubtless a result of the fading 

 out of color (or, more coi-rectly, the failure to develop it) poste- 

 riorly, which is common in the genus. No. 5,369 Academy coll. 

 (old number 1,973), labeled schotti, from the Rio Grande, appears 

 to be one of Schott's original specimens, and almost exactly cor- 

 responds to No. 5,363, a tieniatus from Utah, of about the same 

 date. But it must be admitted that no great reliance can be placed 

 upon color characters in specimens which have been for so man}- 

 years in spirits. 



Hab. — Arizona, Utah and southern California. 



SALVADORA B. and G. 



I. c, 104; Cope, I. c, 618, and Rep. Nat. Mus.. 817; Zamenis (part) 

 Boul., I. c, I, 379. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, increasing posteriorly, no interspace; 

 rostral widened laterally with projecting edges; one loreal; two 

 internasals; two nasals; two or three preoculars ; pupil round; 

 scales smooth with pits in 17 rows; anal divided; size medium; 

 body slender; head distinct. 



Hab. — Southwestern United States ; Mexico. 



This genus is like Zamenis, but has the rostral considerably 

 enlarged, Avith free, expanded lateral borders. 



Salvadora grahami B. and G. 



I. c, 104 ; Cope, I. c, 619, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 818 ; Zamenis (jra- 

 harni Boul., I c, I, 39:5 ; S. (irahami Van Den., I. c, 180 ; Phvmo- 

 thi/ra 7iexalei)is Cope, Proc. Acad. Phila., 18t)l, 300 ; S. (j. hexalepis 

 Stej., No. Amer. Fauna, No. 7, 203. 



Head plates normal; rostral entering between internasals; lower 

 preocular small, sometimes a third preocular ; post-oculars 2 or 3 ; 

 temporals 1 (2)-2 (3); upper labials 8; scales in 17 rows; ven- 

 trals 175-206; subcaudals 75-108. 



Length about 1,200 ram. (tail 300). 



A yellowish dorsal stripe about three scales wide, narrowing 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



toward the tail; on each side a bi'own or olive stripe about the 

 same width, bordered below Ijy a greenish olive or brown stripe 

 extending to the veutrals; the stripes are sometimes indistinct and 

 at others are broken into spots; belly yellowish; head brown, 

 usually unmarked. 



Ilab. — Western Texas to Utah and Arizona; Sonora and Lower 

 California. 



Several other species of Salvadora are found in Mexico. 



PHYLLORHYNCHUS Stej. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1890, 151 ; Cope, I. c, 617, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 831 ; Lytorhynchm (part) Boul., I c, I, 414. 



Max'llary teeth smooth, longer behind, an interspace; rostral 

 l)roniinent with pi'ojectiug lateral edges, and separating the inter- 

 nasals; two to four loreals; three preoculars; small scales between 

 the eye and the labials; two nasals; two iuteruasals; pupil verti- 

 cal; one pair of chin shields; scales smooth or partly keeled, with- 

 out pits, in 19 rows; anal entire; size medium; head slightly 

 distinct. 



Hab. — North America and INIexico. 



Phyllorhynclius browni Stej. 



I. c, 152; Cope, I. c, 618, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 821; Lytorhynchus 

 browni Boul., I. c, I, 417. 



Body slender; rostral very large, projecting, with free edges and 

 completely sej^arating the internasals; a transversely enlarged 

 shield behind the parietals; loreals 3, the upper and lower small; 

 oculars 3-4; several suboculars separating the eye from the labials; 

 upper labials 6; temporals 3; one pair of chin shields; scales in 

 19 rows, nearly smooth anteriorly, keeled behind; ventrals 159; 

 subcaudals 31. 



Length 325 mm. (tail 42). 



Whitish, with 15 brown blotches, mostly subquadrangular and 

 lighter in the centre; belly white; a dark l)ar across the head 

 between the eyes. 



Hab. — Only two specimens known, from Tucson, Arizona. 



Phyllorhynclius decurtatus Cope. 



Phimothyra dccurtata Cope, Proc. Acad. Phila., 1868, 310 ; Phyllo- 

 rhyiichiis decurtatus Stej., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1890, 154, and 

 Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 823 ; Lytorhynchus decurtatus Boul., I. c, 

 I, 417. 



Much like P. browni, but the scales are smooth; there is no 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



enlarged shield behind the parietals; the tail is shorter; the dorsal 

 spots are more numerous and there are two series of irregular 

 lateral spots. The type specimen in the Academy's collection is 

 from northern Lower California, and there is a second in the 

 National Museum from La Paz. A third, which has just reached 

 me from Mr. Herbert Brown, collected by him at Yuma, Ariz., 

 for the first time estabhshes the species within the United States. 

 This specimen differs from the type in that the rosti*al penetrates 

 between the prefrontals as in P. broumi ; there is but one subocu- 

 lar, and but two post-oculars on one side; there are four temporals; 

 the tail is rather longer, and the spots are more numerous, being 

 forty-one on the body and six on the tail (thirty-two altogether in 

 the type). Yeutrals 183; subcaudals 30. Length 403 mm. (tail 

 40). 



Hab. — Lower California; Yuma, Arizona. 



CYCLOPHIS Gunther. 



Cat. Col. Snakes, Br. Mus., Gunth., 119 (1858); Cope, I. c, 621 ; Lep- 

 tophis B. and G., ?. c, 106 ; Contia (part) Boul., I. c, II, 255. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; one loreal; one preocular; two 

 internasals; one nasal; scales keeled with two pits; anal divided; 

 size small, tail long; head distinct; color green. 



Hab. — Asia; North America. 



CyclopMs aestivus L. 



Coluber cestivus L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 387 (1766); Leptophis cestivus 

 and majalis B and G., I. c, lOG ; Cydophis cestivus Cope, I. c, 621, 

 and Eej). Nat. Mus., 784 ; Contia cestiva Boul., I. c, II, 258. 



Head scales normal; loreal rather long, occasionally absent; 

 oculars 1-2 (of two examples from New Jersey in my collection, 

 one has a sul)preocular on each side, and the other has three post- 

 oculars on one side); temporals 1-2; upper labials 7, the third and 

 fourth in orbit (one from Florida has the fourth and fifth in the 

 orbit on one side); ventrals 148-166; subcaudals 111-148; scales 

 in 17 rows, the outer smooth. Length 920 mm. (tail 330). 



Uniform bright green abov^e; labials and belly yellowish wliite 

 or bright yellow. 



Hab. — New Jersey to Florida, west to the Mississippi, southwest 

 to New Mexico. 




6Q TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan,, 



LIOPELTIS Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860. 559 ; Chlorosoma B. and G., I. c, 108 ; Lio' 

 peltis Cope, I. c, 620, and Rep. Nat. Mus.,781 ; Contia (part) BouL, 

 I. c, II, 255. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; head scales normal; a loreal, 

 occasionally absent; one nasal; scales smooth, with one pit; anal 

 divided; size small; tail long; head distinct. 



Hab. — Eastern Asia; North America. 



Liopeltis vernalis Harlan. 



Coluber vernalis Harl., Jour. Acad. Phila., V, 1827, p. 361 ; Chloro- 

 soma vernalis B. and G., I. c, 108 ; L. vernalis Cope, I. c, 0'20, and 

 Kep. Nat. Mus., 783 ; Contia vernalis Boiil., I. c., II, 258. 



Head scales normal; loreal nearly square, sometimes fused with 

 the nasal; one nasal; oculars 1 (2)-2; temporals 1-2; upper 

 labials 7, third and fourth in orbit; lower labials 8; scales smooth 

 in 15 rows; ventrals 120-138; subcaudals 69-94. 



Uniform bright green above; labials and belly yellowish green. 

 Length 500 mm. (tail 150). 



Hab. — Canada and United States east of Rocky Mountains; 

 rare in the southeastern States. 



CONTIA B. and G. 



I. c, 110 ; Cope (part), I. c, 599, and Chionactis Cope, I. c, 604, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mus., 925, 935^8 ; Contia (part) BouL, I. c, II, 255 ; ? Lodia 

 B. and G., Z. c, 116. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; one loreal; one preocular; one 

 nasal, sometimes half divided below the nostril; two interuasals; 

 scales smooth, without pits in 15-17 rows; anal divided; size 

 small; head not very distinct. 



Hab. — North America; Asia. 



Key to the American Species. 



a. — 13 rows of scales; pale brown, no cross-bars, . 1. C. taijlori. 

 b. — 15 rows of scales: 



Reddish or greenish brown; sometimes cross-bands, 



2. C. episcopa. 



AVhite, Avith bands or rings around body, 3. C. occipitale. 



Brown, with a light band on each side, . . 4. C. mitis. 



^'Prof. Cope removes all the species included here in Contia, except G. 

 mitis, to CJiionactis Cope, on account of their possession of a shallow external 

 groove on the posterior maxillary tooth. Thi.s is probably the same noted 

 by Dr. Giinther as a distinct elongated pit at the base of the hinder teeth in 

 large specimens of the Mexican Conopsis nasus (Biologia Centrali Ameri- 

 cana, Rept., p. 97). Sufficient material is not accessible to determine 

 either the constancy or the value of this character, and it seems best for the 

 present to retain these snakes in the genus Contia. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELrillA, 67 



Contia taylori Boulenger. 



I. c, II, 265, PI. XII, fig. 3 ; Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 93G. 

 Nasal not divided; oue loreal. longer than deep; oculars 1-2; 

 temporals 1-1 (2); upper labials 7; posterior chin shields very 

 small; scales in 1-3 rows; ventrals 126-137; subcaudals 37-46; 

 length 270 mm. (tail 55). 



" Pale brown above, each scale darkest along the centre; upper 

 lip and lower parts white." 



Hab. — Duval county, Texas; northern Mexico (three specimens 

 known). 

 Contia episcopa Kennicott. 



Lamprosoma episcopum Keiin., U.S. Mex. Bound. Siirv., p. 22, pi 8, 

 fig. 2 (1859). 



This species has the scales in 15 rows; an undivided nasal; an 

 elongated loreal; 7 upper labials; oculars 1-2; temporals 1-2 (1); 

 ventrals 143-167; subcaudals 35-57; tail about one-fourth of the 

 length. Ranges from Texas to Utah, Arizona and northern 

 Mexico. 



Rosy yellow to ashy; no cross-bands, . . . 1. C e. episcopa. 

 Orange, with black cross-bands, 2. C. e. isozona. 



Contia episcopa episcopa Kennicott. 



I. c, 22 ; C. e. episcopa and C. e. torquata Cope, I. c, 601 ; C. ejnscopa 

 and C. torquata BouL, I. c, II, 265, 266 ; Chiouactis episcopa epis- 

 copa and C. e. torquata Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 938, 939. 



Ventrals 143-163; subcaudals 35-57. Length about 250 mm. 



Yellowish, reddish or greenish brown, sometimes with a yellow 

 dorsal stripe three scales wide; most of the scales tipped with light 

 brown; top of head like the body, or brown or black; belly yel- 

 lowish or greenish white. 



C. e. torquata Cope rests upon degrees of color intensity which 

 are admittedly inconstant in the two specimens known. 



Hab. — Texas and northern Mexico. 



Contia episcopa isozona Cope. 



Prdc. Acad. Phila., 1866, 304. and I. c, 601 ; C. isozona Boul., I. c, II, 

 266. 



Ventrals 158-167; subcaudals 50-52; orange or red with black 

 cross-bands which almost reach the ventrals, becoming complete 

 rings on the tail; belly whitish; snout red, rest of head black. 

 Length about 250 mm. 



Hab. — Texas to Arizona and Utah; Sonora. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Contia occipitale nallowell. 



Rluiioitomn occipitale Hall., Proc. Acad. Phila. ; 1854, 95; CMonactis 

 occipitalis Cope, I. c, 605, and Kep, Nat. Mus., 941 ; Contia occipitale 

 Boul., l.c, 11,266. 



Snout prominent; nasal undivided; loreal small ; oculars 1-2; 

 temporals 1-2; upper labials 7; scales in 15 rows; tail about one- 

 fifth of total length; ventrals 147-158; subcaudals 34-44. 



Length about 300 ram. 



Color white or pale yellow, sometimes pinkish; narrow black 

 rings around the body at intervals of about five scales, sometimes 

 interrupted on the ventrals; rest of belly whitish; a Ijlack crescent 

 on the hinder part of parietals with the horns forward. 



Hab. — Arizona. 



Contia mitis B. and G. 



I. c, 110 ; ? Loilia tenuis B. and G., I. c, 116 ; C, mitis and L. tenuis 

 Cope, I. c, 601 ; Contia mitis Boul., I. c, II. 267, and YanDeu., I. c, 

 163. 



Size small; tail very short; oculars 1-1 (2); upper labials 7; 

 temporals 1-2; scales in 15 rows; ventrals 147-186; subcaudals 

 30-52; length 322 mm. (tail 40). Reaches a length of 415 mm. 



Dark brown with a yellowish stripe on the fourth row of scales, 

 and a row of black dots below it ; ventrals yellowish edged with 

 black ; a black streak on each side of head ; chin and throat 

 spotted with black. 



Lodia tenuis B. and G. , was based upon one example from 

 Puget Sound, Oregon, agreeing with G. mills except in having a 

 small additional plate between the prefrontals, and the loreal reach- 

 ing the eye under the preocular. As no further specimen has 

 come to light in fifty years, it seems safe to refer this unique 

 example to the class of anomalies, the head plates being usually 

 variable in these small burrowing forms. 



Hab. — Central California to Washington and Oregon. 



DIADOPHIS B. andG. 



I. c, 112 ; Cope, I. c, 614, and Kep. Nat. Mus., 743 ; Coronella (part) 

 Boul., I. c, II, 188. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, subequal; one loreal; two preociilars; 

 two internasals; two nasals; scales smooth with one pit, in 15-17 

 rows; anal divided; size small; head distinct. 



Hab. — North America; Mexico. 



If due attention be paid to juvenile characters, the North 




1901.] NATURAL SCIE>'CE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Americau species of Diaclophis must be limited to three. Baird 

 and Girard established two others, which with a third of his own 

 making, Cope regards as subspecies of D. amabilis. In these 

 forms the chief differences are in the shape of the frontal and 

 supraocular plates, and in the extent to which the dark dorsal area 

 invades the two outer rows of scales. But a series of the eastern 

 form, D. pundatus, of all sizes, shows that exactly these differ- 

 ences, in that species, are age characters, and in a genus whose 

 included forms are so nearly similar, there can be little doubt that 

 they are so in amabilis as well. 



Key to the Species, 



17 rows of scales; 7 (8) upper labials; ventrals 237 or less, 



1. D. r eg alls. 

 15 rows of scales; 7 (8) upper labials; ventrals 210 or less, 



2. D. amabilis. 

 15 rows of scales; 8(7) upper labiols; ventrals 160 or less, 



3 D. 2)unctatus. 



Diadophis punctatus L. 



Coluber punctatus L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 376 ; D. punctatus B. and 

 G., I. c, 112 ; D. punctatus and D. (nnabihs stictocjenys (part) Cope, 

 I. c, 616, 617, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 751, 750; Coronellu jnmctata 

 Boul., I. c, II, 206. 



Head not very distinct; head plates normal; in adults the fron- 

 tal is much narrowed behind and acute; oculars 2 (l)-2; tem- 

 porals 1-1; upper labials 8 (occ. 7); scales in 15 rows; ventrals 

 136-160; subcaudals 36-62. Leugth 355 mm. (tail ^b). 



In adults the color is bluish black or brownish above, covering 

 the whole of the dorsal scales and extending like a bar upon the 

 end of each ventral; the belly is yellow or orange, sometimes with 

 a series of transverse dark blotches in the middle of each ventral, 

 these are, however, often absent; there is usually a yellow half- 

 collar on the nape, half a scale to a full scale in width; the lower 

 half of the upper and the whole of the lower labials is yellow with 

 small spots of black. In the young, the back is bright reddish 

 brown or salmon color, which reaches only the upper border of the 

 second row of scales, and extends downward as the color deepens; 

 the top of the head is dark brown and the nuchal collar is bor- 

 dered behind by a band of the same dark color; the frontal plate 

 is also more angular in front and less tapering behind, than in the 

 adult. 



Hab. — North America, east of the Mississippi river. 




70 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Diadophis amabilis B. and G. 



I. c, 113 ; D. docilis and D. pulchellus B. and G., I. c, 114, 115 •, D. 

 a. amabilis, D. a. 'pulchellus, D. a, docilis and D. a. stictogenys 

 (part) Cope, I. c, 616, and Rep. Nah Mus., 747-750 ; Goromlla 

 amabilis Boul., I. c, II, 2(J7 ; J), amabilis Van Den., I. c, 164. 



''' In this species the frontal is broader behind than in either of the 

 others; upper labials 7 (occ. 8); temporals 1-1 (2); scales in 15 

 rows;^the form is more elongate than in pnnetatas, the ventrak 

 ranging from 182-210; subcaudals 53-63. Length 470 mm. 

 (tail 80). 



The coloration is much as in 2^unctatns ; the spots on the ventrals 

 are small and irregular, and the nuchal half-collar is almost always 

 present. 



Ilab. — Texas to the Pacific coast; south to Sonora. 



Diadophis regalis B. cand G. 



I. c, 115 ; D. regalis regalis and Z>. r. arnyi Cope, I. c, 615, and Rep. 

 Nat. Mus., 744, 745 ; Coronella regalis Boul., I. c, II, 208, 



The frontal is narrow behind, as m2mnctatus; scales in 17 rows; 

 upper labials 7 (occ. 8); temporals 1-1 (2); ventrals 183-237; 

 subcaudals 5G-75. Length 570 mm. (tail 100); being the largest 

 of the genus. 



Ashy to brownish black; belly yellow or reddish with small 

 black spots; the nuchal collar is generally absent. 



Hab. — Illinois to Arizona; south to Vera Cruz. 



OPHIBOLUS B. and (J. 



I. c, 82 ; Cope, I. c, 607 ; Osceola B. and G., I. c, 13:3 and Cope, I. c, 

 606; Coronella (part) Boul., I. c, II, 188; Osceola and Ophibolus 

 Cope, Hep. Nat. Mus., 881, 902. •* 



Maxillary teeth smooth, slightly increasing posteriorly, no inter- 

 space; one loreal ; one prcocular ; two internasals ; two nasals; 

 scales smooth, with two pits, in 19-25 rows; anal entire ; size 

 large and stout to small and slender; head slightly distinct. 



Hab. — North America and Mexico. 



Key to the Species. 



a. — Scales in 21 rows; dorsal spots brown or red with black bor- 

 ders; or rings around body, 1.0. doliatus. 



^^ Lampropeltis Filzinger, lately exhumed, is regarded as a nomen nudum 

 for the reasons given under Entwtiia. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



6.— Scales in 21-23 rows:* 



Size large; black, with centres of scales white or yellow; or 



cross-bands of :<arae color, 1.0. getuius. 



Size small; yellow and black rings; black rings more or less 



divided by red, 3. 0. zonatus. 



Size medium; pale brown; dorsal spots much wider than 



long; no head bands, ... 4. 0. rhombomaculatus. 



c. — Scales in 25 rows; size medium; grayish brown, head bands 



distinct, o. 0. calligaster. 



Ophibolus doliatus L. 



Coluber doliatus L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 379 (176G). 



Size medium to small; head scales normal; loreal small and 

 occasionally absent in one form; oculars 1-2; temporals 2 (l)-2 

 (3); frontal narrow behind in the young, broader in adults; 

 upper labials 7; scales in 21 I'ows (occasionally varying from 17- 

 23); anterior chin shields much the longest; ventrals 165-215; 

 subcaudals 31-55; tail from one-fifth to one-seventh of the length. 



This species covers the United States from the Atlantic coast to 

 the central plains, and extends southwest into INIexico, and varies 

 to an extreme degree, with the usual result in classification. Prof. 

 Cope's scheme of the directive color variations of 0. doliatus, 

 guided by " bathmisra," published in completed form in The 

 American Naturalist, 1893, p. 1066, and finally in The Primary 

 Factors of Organic Evolution, p. 29 (1896), is a remarkable 

 example of the employment of that great gift, the scientific 

 imagination, in a wrong field; for if that work be compared with 

 a large series of doliatus, it becomes evident that the subspecies 

 added by Cope to complete the chain are no more than selected 

 cases, the numberless promiscuous variations being wholly 

 ignored. The course of change from a brown -spotted to a red- 

 ringed snake has not been as orderly, nor as easily marked off, as 

 is there assumed, and iu subdividing the species, natural limita- 

 tions are not readily found. 



Key to the Subspecies. 



a. — An oblique streak behind the eye : 



Dorsal spots reaching to about fifth row; an angular mark 



on head; ventrals 190-214, . . 1.0. d. triangulus. 

 Dorsal spots reaching to third or first row; head bands 



variable; ventrals 175-203, ... 2. 0. d. clericus. 




72 rPOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



b. — No oblique streak behind eye: 



«i. — Dorsal spots reaching outer row or ventrals; no distinct 



headbands, S. 0. d. doliatus. 



b\ — Black borders of dorsal spots forming rings around 

 body; no alternating spots: 



No black blotch on ventrals opposite dorsal spots; top 



of head mostly red, . . . . 4. 0. d. coccineus. 



A black blotch on ventrals opposite dorsal spots; top 



of head mostly black, . . . 5. 0. d. gentiUs. 



OpMbolus doliatus triangulus Daudin. 



Coluber triajKjulus Daud., Kept., VI, 322 (1803); Oi^Mholus eximius 

 B. and G., I. c, 87; 0. d. triangulus Cope, I. c, 610; Coronella 

 trianriulum (part) Boul., I. c, II, 200 ; Osceola dolinta triangula 

 Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 885. 



Largest of the subspecies; temporals 2-2; scales in 21 rows; 

 ventrals 190-214; subcaudals '43-55; length about 1,100 mm. 



Body color gray; the dorsal spots are about thirteen scales wide 

 and rarely extend below the fifth row; they are chocolate brown, 

 with black borders in adults, and quite red in the young, and 

 number 40-46 on the body, and 10-13 on the tail; a second 

 smaller alternating series on the sides, which does not reach the 

 ventrals, and a third series of irregular black blotches on the ends 

 of the ventrals; the belly is whitish, blotched with black. The first 

 dorsal spot is commonly extended forward and ends in a conspicu- 

 ous angle on the frontal, the arms of which enclose a triangular 

 light patch; there is a black band across the prefrontals, often with 

 a light centre, and a narrow dark oblique streak behind the eye, 

 bordered above by a light one. 



Hab. — Massachusetts to North Carolina; west to Wisconsin. 

 Ophibolus doliatus clericus B. and G. 



Ophibolus clericus B, and G., I. c, 88 ; 0. d. collaris, 0. d. clericus 

 Cope, I. c, 609, 610, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 886, 888 ; 0. d. temporalis 

 Cope, Am. Nat., 1893, 1068 and Rep. Nat. Mus., 889 ; Coronella 

 triangulum (part) Bonl., Z. c, II, 200. 



Shorter than 0. d. triangulus; ventrals 175-203; subcaudals 

 36-49; length 950 mm. 



The dorsal spots are less numerous, from 21-36 on the body and 

 6-10 on the tail: they are wider and end from the third to the first 

 row of scales; the alternating spots are correspondingly lower and 

 invade the ventials. The head markings are sometimes much 

 as in triangulus but less distinct; there is usually an oval light 

 patch surrounded by a black ring, in place of the triangular mark; 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrill A. 73 



this is sometimes more or less extended transversely, becoming a 

 half-collar; this is the form called vollurk by Cope; often the ante- 

 rior ring is represented l)y a black bar on the nape, and sometimes 

 the ring is altogether absent and there is a light spot on each 

 supraocular and another on the parietals, the rest of the head 

 markings being more or less obsolete; this is teinporalls Cope, but 

 the intermediate stages are so many that it is quite arbitrary to 

 regard these patterns as distinctive. The spots range in color from 

 brown to red. The oblique streak behind the eye is present. 

 0. d. clericus is a transitional form of great variability, and it is by 

 no means always easy to distinguish it from 0. d. inamjulus on the 

 one side and 0: d. doliatns on the other; but I find that on the whole, 

 compared with triangidiis, it lias a greater width and lessened 

 number of dorsal spots and a want of uefiuition in the head 

 markings, associated with fewer ventrals and subcaudals; it may 

 be distinguished from 0. d. doUatus by the fact that the latter 

 lacks the oblique streak behind the eye and rarely shows any head 

 markings beyond a dark bar or blotch across the parietals. 



Hab. — This subspecies seems to occupy the southern portion of 

 the range of 0. d. triangalus. I have seen no examples from 

 further north than Trenton, N. J., and central Illinois. 



OpMbolus doliatus doliatus L. 



I. c, 379 ; 0. d. doliatus, 0. d. parallelus and 0. d. syspilus (part) 

 Cope, /. c, 609, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 889-893 ; Coronella gentilis 

 (part) Boul., I. c, II, 201. 



Form short and stout in adults: temporals '2-2 (3); ventrals 

 200-210; subcaudals 44-55; length about 670 mm. (tail 100). 



Grouud color grayish white or yellowish; dorsal spots brownish 

 red, or red, Avith black borders; they are broad and reach to the 

 first row of scales, often extending well on to the ventrals; the 

 lateral spots are small and largely upon the ventrals, wholly so 

 when the dorsals are Avidest. The belly is whitish or yellow with 

 black blotches; the lower borders of the dorsal spots sometimes 

 form nearly parallel black bands on the ventrals. The extreme 

 of this disposition is parallelm Cope. The top of the head is some- 

 times almost entirely black, but more usually this is reduced to a 

 bar across the parietals, the rest of the head being red or yellow. 

 The post-orbital stripe of the previous forms is absent. 



I cannot find characters which will bear examination in syi^pilus 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



€ope. No. 3,609, Academy coll., from Hennessey, Oklahoma, 

 collected and labeled sijqnlm by Cope himself, has more black upon 

 the head than most 0. d. doliatus, while underneath, anteriorly, it 

 has the paired ringi^ of 0. d. cocdneus, on the rest of the belly 

 having parallel lines formed by the lower borders of the dorsal 

 spots quite as close together as those attributed by him to jmral- 

 lelus. 



Hab.- -Maryland to Florida; west to Illinois, Oklahoma and 

 Texas. 



Ophibolus doliatus coccineus Schlegel. 



Coronella coccinea Sch., Ess. Phys. Serp., II, fiT, PI. ? (1837); OjM- 

 bolus doliatus and Osceola elapsoidea B. and G., I. c, 89, 133 ; Osce- 

 ola elapsoidea and 0. d. coccineus Cope, I. c, 606, 609, and Rep. 

 Nat. Mus., 900, 896; Coronella gentilis (part) and G. doliata (part) 

 Boul., I. c, II, 201, 205. 



Body rather more slender; temporals 1-2; ventrals 175-204; 

 subcaudals 31-54; length 535 mm. (tail 70). 



Body color scarlet, comj^letely encircled by pairs of black rings, 

 with interspaces white in the young, yellow in adults; no lateral 

 spots; belly paler than the back; top of head red, with the first 

 black rings crossing the parietals. The pattern is formed by the 

 obliteration of the lateral portion of the black borders of dorsal 

 spots, and the extension of their transverse portion entirely around 

 the body. The lateral spots have disappeared. 



This subspecies seems to be adopting burrowing habits in portions 

 of its range, and, as is frequent in such cases, the head plates and 

 scales are becoming variable, specimens being found without a 

 loreal and with the scales reduced to nineteen rows. This extreme 

 reduction is Ot^ceola elapsoidea B. and G., and is not common, but 

 intermediate stages are frequent; out of some thirty specimens 

 colored as in coccineus, I have met but two without a loreal and 

 with 19 rows. The case is peculiar. If constant the distinction 

 would be a generic one ; on the other hand, the importance of the 

 character involved would seem to lift it out of the ordinary cate- 

 gory of intergradation, for we appear to have a subspecies being 

 transformed into a genus under our eyes. On the whole, it may 

 accord best with a sound method to take no note of this form at 

 its present stage. 



Hab. — North Carolina to Florida and west to the Mississippi 

 river. Specimens without a loreal arc rarely found outside of 

 Florida. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Ophibolus doliatus gentilis 15- and G. 



Ophiboliis gentilis B. and G., I. c, 90 ; 0. d. annnlatus, 0. d. syspibis 

 (part), 0. a. gentili.^ anil O. multistratus Cope, I. c, 609, Gil; Coro- 

 nella geniiiis (part) and G. micro})hoUs (part) Boul., I. e., 11,201, 

 203 ; LampropcUis innltistr<(tus and L. annulaius Stej., Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1891, 502, 503 ; Osceola doliata gentilis, ((unulatris, sys- 

 piliis (part) and Ophibolus multistratus Cope, liep. Nat. Mus., 894, 

 895, 909. 



Body rather short iiud stout; temporals 2-2 (8); scales in 21 

 rows (occasionally 23); ventrals 184-200; subcaudals 42-50; 

 length about 700 mm. 



The black rings usually extend around the body as in 0. d. 

 coccineus, and the colors are very similar, but the spaces between 

 adjacent pairs of rings on the belly, opposite the red dorsal tracts, 

 are more or less filled up by black ; the whole top of the head is 

 usually black except the end of the snout, which is red. Some- 

 times the scales in the yellow rings are marked with black, and 

 often the black of the rings extends slong the dorsal line, forming 

 a dusky band on the red spaces; when the black suffusion is want- 

 ing we have anmdatm Kenn., but it exists in all degrees. 



A small specimen from Fort Harker, Kaus. , in the Cope col- 

 lection, referred by him to sypilm,-^ is .simply an immature gentilis. 



0. multistratus Kenn. was founded on an individual from Ne- 

 braska having 8 upper labials; 2.3 rows of scales; three temporals in 

 the second row, dorsal spots with borders uniting on the flanks, and 

 no rings nor spots on the belly. Mr. Stejneger reports a second 

 specimen^ ^ with but seven labials. Twenty-three rows of scales; 

 temporals 2-3; with a greater or less number of dorsal spots are 

 not without precedent in 0. doliatus ; indeed, three out of five 0. d. 

 gentilis which I have examined have three temporals in the second 

 row. No. 3,613 Academy coll., from western Louisiana, is in com- 

 pany with a gentilis lacking the dorsal suff^usion of black, and is 

 exactly like it in all other respects, except that the belly is immacu- 

 late and the dorsal spots close on the outer row of scales; cor. 

 responding very closely to Kennicott's description of multiMratus, 

 with the scutellation of gentilis. I see no reason, therefore, why 

 the first should not be included within the range of this variable 

 form; the same may be said of annulatus Kenn., the diflfereuces 

 of which are trivial. 



-" Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1888, p. 385. 

 2 1 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1891, p. 502. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The Mexican forms of Ophlbolns with rings are closely related 

 to this section. Mr. Boulenger has indeed united all of them with 

 annidatus, under the name of 0. micropholis Cope, and Dr. Gun- 

 ther" has done the same, using the name annulatus. 



The one specimen of micropholis, from Nicaragua, which I 

 have seen, is certainly very like gentilis, and if the southern forms 

 are to be united, as stated above, gentilis will probably have to be 

 added, and that name will have priority. 



Hab. — As here restricted, gentilis ranges from Nebraska to 

 western Louisiana, Texas and northern Mexico. 



Ophibolus getulus I- 



Coluber getulus L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 382 (1766). 



Size large and stout; head not very distinct ; scales in 21-23 

 rows (occ. 25); oculars 1-2; upper labials 7: temporals 2-2 (3); 

 anterior chin shields longest: tail rather more than one-seventh of 

 the length; color black or brownish black; white or yellow mark- 

 ings on separate scales, which frequently collect into lines across 

 the back. 



Hab.— The whole United States south of latitude 40°. 



Key to the Subspecies. 



a. — Scales in 21 or 23 rows: 



Scales with yellow centres, often forming cross-bands, 



l._ 0. g. sayi. 

 Black with white or yellow cross-bands, bifurcating on sides, 



2. 0. g. getulus. 

 h. — Scales in 23 or 25 rows: 



Black with white rings which widen on the sides, 



3. 0. g. boylii. 

 Black with many rings broken; short white stripes, 



4. 0. g. calijornice, 



Ophibolus getulus sayi Holbrook. 



Coronella sai/i Holb., No. Am. Herp., Ill, 99, PI. XXII (1842); Op/u- 

 bolus splendidus and 0. sayi B. and G., 83, 84 ; 0. g. sayi and 0. g. 

 splcndidus Cope, I. c, (il2, 613, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 911 and 918 ; 

 Coronella getula, (part) Boul., I. c, II, 197. 



Dorsal rows of scales 21-23 (rarely 25); ventrals 200-224; 

 subcaudals 40-60; length about 1,500 mm. 



This form is exceedingly variable in pattern, but after examina- 

 tion of many specimens from all parts of its range, both living 



^^ Bio. Cent. Amer. Kept., p. 109, PI. 23. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 7 7 



and alcoholic, I atn not able to subdivide it. Typical sai/l is 

 black, and has each scale with a white or yellow ccutre; the belly 

 is yellow with black blotches and the head is black with small 

 yellow spots. In many cases the body spots collect into narrow 

 transverse bands, leaving considerable spaces black with more or 

 less traces of the yellow spots; sometimes the lower seven or eight 

 rows of scales are spotted, and above them, on the dorsal area, the 

 spots collect into narrow bands connecting the spotted sides and 

 leaving a series of black, unspotted tracts on the back, three or 

 four scales long and seven or eight wide. This is splendidus B. 

 and G. At the present time the collection of the Zoological 

 Society contains examples of both of these and more or less inter- 

 mediate stages, collected at the same time at Pecos, Tex. On the 

 other hand, No. 4,451 Academy coll. is a very fair example of 

 splendidus collected at Reelfoot Lake, Tenn., in 1895, by Mr. 

 Samuel N. Khoads, and No. 3,585, from southern Illinois, clearly 

 indicates the same pattern, which is therefore not associated with 

 a restricted geographical area. 



Hab. — Southern Illinois to Louisiana and through the southern 

 portion of the plains to western Texas. 



Ophibolus getulus getulus I- 



Coluber getulus L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 382 (1766); Ophibolus getulux 

 B. and G., I. c, 85 ; 0. g. getulus ami 0. g. niger Cope, I. c, 613 ; 

 Coronella getula (part) Boul., I. c, II, 197 ; 0. g. getulus Cope, Kep. 

 Nat. Mus., 914. 



Size larger than 0. g. sayi ; ventrals 210-224; subcaudals 

 40-53; reaches a length of 1,800 mm. 



Black, crossed by transverse bands of white or pale yellow, one 

 and a half or two scales wide, at intervals of from five to ten 

 scales, generally bifurcating on the flanks and joining the anterior 

 and posterior ones, thus forming a chain-like pattern enclosing a 

 series of black dorsal blotches. An occasional Florida specimen 

 has some scales in the black areas with light centres. Two speci- 

 mens, one from Florida and one from Alabama, now in the 

 Zoological Gardens, have narrow white bands crossing the back, in 

 one at intervals of seven, and in the other of ten scales, without 

 bifurcating. The belly is white or yellow, with black blotches: 

 top of head black, nearly all the plates marked with Avhite or 

 yellow; labials yellow, heavily margined with black. 0. g. niger 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



does not appear to me to be more than a melanistic condition, 

 approaches to which occur in all subspecies of 0. getulus. 



Hab. — Southern New Jersey to Florida and Louisiana; chiefly 

 in the Atlantic States. 



Ophibolus getulus boylii B. and G. 



Ophiholus Boylii B. and G., I. c, 82 ; 0. [/. hoi/lii Cope, I. c, 613, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mus., 919 ; Coronella getula (part) Boul., I. c, II, 197 ; 

 Lampropeltis boylii Yan Den., I. c, 169. 



Smaller than 0. g. sayl; scales in 23 rows (occ. 25); ventrals 

 218-255; subcaudals 46-60. The largest measurement given by 

 Mr. Van Denburg is 1,089 mm. (tail 135). 



The body is black or brownish, with rings of white or yellow 

 about two scales wide on the back, which widen on the sides until 

 they are wider than the black interspaces; sometimes the direction 

 of the rings is oblique, so that on the belly and even on the back 

 the ends alternate, instead of meeting; the top of the head is 

 black with small light spots and the snout is white or yellow. One 

 of two living specimens lately received from Yuma, Ariz., by 

 courtesy of Mr. Herbert Brown, has the light bands only indicated 

 by white spots on a few lateral scales, across the back there being 

 no more than a brown shade on the deep black of the body color; 

 the top of the head is wholly black, the lower labials white, 

 heavily margined with black. 



Hab. — Nevada, Arizona and California. 



Ophibolus getulus californise Blainville. 



Coluber ( Ophis) californicB Blain., Nouv. Ann. du Mus., 1835, 293 ; 

 B. and G., I. c, 15;i ; 0. (j. californicB Cope, /. r., 614, and Rep. Nat. 

 Mus , 922 ; Coronella getula (part) Boul., I. c, II, 197 ; Lampropeltis 

 californicB Van Den., I. c, 172. 



The relations of this snake to 0. g. boylii are uncertain, and it 

 is quite possible that the specimens known are but abnormal color 

 variations of that species; there are usually 23 rows of scales; 

 oculars 1-2 (3); temporals 2-3; ventrals 226-236; subcaudals 

 50-58. The body is black or browni.sh with little constancy in the 

 mai'kings; at times more or less of the white rings of boylii are 

 present, but broken up and interspersed with short longitudinal 

 white stripes, and according to Mr. Van Denburg, there is a 

 white or yellow stripe or series of spots on the back; the head is 

 colored as in boylii, and the belly is yellow or white, with or with- 

 out black blotches. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELnilA. 79 



Mr. Van Denburg's largest specimen measured 391 mm. (tail 

 41). 



Hab. — Southern California and Lower California. 



Ophibolus zonatus Blainville. 



Coluber {Zacholus) zonatus Blain., I. c, 293; Ophibolus jyyrrJiomelas 

 Cope, I. c, 610, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 907 ; Coronella zonata BouL, 

 I. c, II, 203 ; Lamj)ropcltis zonatus Van Den., I. c, 167. 



Size rather smaller than boylll, body slender; scutellation gen- 

 erally as in that form; oculars 1 (2)-2; upper labials 7 (6); 

 temporals 2 (l)-3 (2); scales in 21-23 rows; ventrals 199-224; 

 subcaudals 45-66. Length about 900 mm. (tail one-sixth). 



The body is encircled by narrow white or yellow rings, between 

 Avhich are black ones, which are more or less replaced or divided 

 by red; all the rings are narrow, and the red is more pronounced 

 anteriorly, being often altogether absent on the hinder part of the 

 body; head yellow with a black baud across the middle and an- 

 other on the nape. 



Mr. Boulenger, as it appears to me rightly, has referred this 

 species to zonatus of Blainville. 



Hab. — Arizona and southern California. 



Ophibolus rhombomaculatus Holbrook. 



Coronella rhombomaculata, Holb., I. c, III, 103, PI. 23; 0. rJiomho- 

 maculatus B. and G., I. c, 80 ; Cope, I. c., 610, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 903 ; Coronella calligaster (part) Bonl-, I. c, II, 198 ; Lampropeltis 

 rhombomaculatus Stej., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1891, 503. 



Size moderate; body cylindrical and rigid; oculars 1-2; tem- 

 porals 2-3; upper labials 7; anterior chin shields longest; scales 

 in 23-21 rows; ventrals 200-212; subcaudals 44-51. 



Length 790 mm. (tail 110). 



Body color pale brown, with a dorsal series of small dark brown 

 blotches with indistinct black borders; these are about eight or 

 nine scales wide and not more than two long, and may number as 

 many as fifty on the body; the interspaces are wider than the 

 spots; a series of irregular small blotches on the side, often alter- 

 nating with the dorsals and reaching the ventrals, the lower end 

 sometimes breaking ofi and forming a detached spot on the end of 

 the ventrals; belly yellowish white clouded with pale brown; no 

 head bands, nor spots on the nape; a narrow oblique streak behind 

 the eye; labials whitish slightly margined with dark brown. 




80 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



Hab. — From the District of Columl)ia to South Carohna and 

 west to the Alleghenies. ISot common. 



Ophibolus calligaster Harlan. 



Coluber calligaster Harl., .Tour. Acad. Phila., 1827, 359 ; 0. calligas- 

 ter Cope, I. c, 610, and Rep. Nat. Mus., i)05 ; Coronella calligaster 

 (part) Boul., I. c, II, 198. 



Larger than rhombomaculatus ; oculars 1-2; temporals 2-3; 

 upper labials 7; anterior chin shields longest; scales in 25 rows; 

 veutrals 198-210; subcaudals 41-65. Length 1,180 mm. (tail 

 165). 



Body color pale grayish brown; a dorsal series of subquadrate 

 blotches, dark brown with narrow black borders, two to three 

 scales long, eight to ten wide, somewhat emarginate before and 

 behind; the interspaces are about equal to the sjjots; a smaller 

 alternating series on the sides, which often form irregular vertical 

 bars, and a third on the outer row of scales and ends of the 

 ventials; belly yellowish, with or without square black blotches on 

 the centre. The head markings are sometimes verj' elaborate; in a 

 beautiful specimen formerly in the collection of the Zoological 

 Society, from Minnesota, the top of the head was yellowish, with 

 a brown band across the prefrontals; an arrow-headed mark, 

 brown with a black border, the base on the frontal and apex just 

 behind the parietals; a brown spot on the hinder end of the supra- 

 oculars and a faint dark oblique streak behind the eye. Labials 

 yellow. An elongated brown blotch with black border, on each 

 side, running back from the parietals ta the neck. The markings 

 are, however, not always as distinct; a second living specimen, from 

 Missouri, has the whole color darker, the lateral spots quite 

 obscure, no dark blotches on the ventrals, and the head markings 

 indistinct. The general aspect of this snake is very like rhom- 

 homaculatm, but it has 25 rows of scales; the ground color is 

 grayish brown ; the dorsal spots are less narrow, and the head 

 bands almost always distinguish it at a glance. 



Hab. — Indiana to Minnesota and southwest to Kansas and 

 northern Texas. Has been once reported from central Ohio. 



STILOSOMA A. E. Brown. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1890. 199 ; Cope, I. c, 595, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 924 ; Boul., I. c, II, 325. 



Maxillary teeth small, smooth, subequal; body very slender and 

 cylindrical; head not distinct; tail short; internasals frequently 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HIEADELPHIA. 81 



fused with pi'efroutals; one uasal; no loreal; preocular usually 

 distinct; prefrontals and parietals in contact with labials; scales 

 smooth without pits; anal entire. 



Stilosoma extenuatum A. E. Brown. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1890, 199 ; Cope, I. c, 595, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 924; Boul., I. c, II, 325; Stejneger (fide Lcenuberg), Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1894, 323. 



Maxillary teeth 10-11, about equal in size; mandibular teeth 

 12. Body very slender, its diameter contained about one hun- 

 dred times in its length; snout rather prominent; head scales 

 variable; of nine specimens which I have examined, six have the 

 internasals fused with the prefi'ontals, one has a distinct internasal 

 on one side; two have the preocular fused with the frontal; in all 

 the loreal is absent and the prefrontals and parietals ai-e in contact 

 with the labials; upper labials 6; third and fourth in orbit, fifth 

 largest; lower labials, 5; post-oculars 2; temporals 1-1; 2 or 3 

 pairs of chin shields; scales smooth in 19 rows; ventrals 223- 

 260; subcaudals 33-40. Length 575 mm. (tail 50). 



Body color silvery gray, with 60-70 irregular dark-brown dorsal 

 spots with blackish border, on the body and about twelve on the 

 tail; on the dorsal line the interspaces are mottled with pale red; 

 belly blotched with black which extends on the sides and often 

 breaks into lateral spots; on the sides the scales are finely punctu- 

 lated with black; a dark patch on the parietals, with a smaller one 

 on each side of the neck; a dark post-ocular streak ; forepart of 

 head, chin and throat maculated with black. 



Hab — Known only from Marion and Orange counties, Florida. 

 CARPHOPHIS Genais. 



Diet. d'Hist. Nat., Ill, 191 (1849) ; C'eluta B. and G., I. c, 129; Cnr- 

 phopJnops Cope, I. c , 596, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 734 ; CarphopMs 

 Boul, I. c, II, 321. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, subequal; a loreal; internasals one, two 

 or absent: one nasal; no preocular; scales smooth, without pits, in 

 13 rows; anal divided; size very small; head flat and not distinct. 



Hab. — North America. 

 CarphoMs amBaas Siy. 



Coluber amcemis Say, Joiir. Acad. Phila., IV, 237 (1825) ; CeJuta 

 amoina B. and G., I. c, 129 ; Cehita helcnce Kenu., Proc. Acad. 

 Phila., 1859. 100 ; Carphophiops amcenus and C. vermis Cope, I. c, 

 596, 597 ; CarphopMs amcenus Boul., I. c, II, 324. 



Head small and flat; internasals often absent; no preocular, 

 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



the loreal entering the orbit; post-ocular 1; temporals 1-1 (2); 

 13 rows of scales; ventrals 120-134; subcaudals 21-36. 



Length 310 mm. (tail one-sixth). 



Chestnut brown above, dark brown in adults: salmon color 

 beneath. 



AVestern specimens usually have but one temporal in the second 

 row, and vary a trifle in the extension of the belly color on the 

 sides; but as the species is a degraded and variable one, it does not 

 seem necessary to regard them as distinct. 



Hab. — NeAV England to Kansas and southward. 



FAEANCIA Gray. 



Zool. Misc., 68 (1842) ; B. and G., I. c, 123 ; Cope, I. c, G04, and Eep. 

 Nat. Mus., 740; Boul., I. c. , II, 290. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, subequal; one loreal; one internasal; 

 one nasal half divided; no preocular; scales smooth, without pits, 

 in 19 rows; anal divided; size moderately large; body cylindrical 

 and rigid; head not very distinct. 



Hab. — North America. 



Farancia abacura Holbrook. 



Coluher abacurus Holb., No. Am. Ilerp., I, 119, PI. 23 (183G) ; 

 Farancia abacura B. and G., I. c, 123 ; Cope, I. c, 604, and Kep. 

 NM- Mus., 741 ; Boul., I. c, II, 291. 



Head small and hardly distinct from the body; one internasal ; 

 one nasal, half divided; no preocular, the loreal and prefrontal 

 entering the orbit; post-orbitals 2; temporals 1-2; upper labials 

 7; 19 rows of scales; ventrals 168-206; subcaudals 34-49. Or- 

 dinary specimens are about 1,000 mm. long, but it reaches 1,400 

 (tail one-sixth to one-seventh). 



Bluish black above with vertical red spots on the sides ; belly 

 red in life. 



Hab. — North Carolina to Louisiana; possibly in Virginia. 



ABASTOR Gray. 



Cat. Snakes Br. Mus., 78 ; B. and G., I. c, 125 ; Cope, /. c, 603 ; Boul., 

 I. c, II, 289. 



Maxillary teelh smooth, subequal; oue loreal; two internasals; 

 one nasal, half divided below the nostril; no preocular; scales 

 smooth, without pits, in 19 rows; anal divided; size moderate; 

 head not distinct; body cylindrical and rigid. 



Hab. — North America. 




1901.] ^'ATUKAL SCIKN-CES OF PHILADKLI'IIIA. 83 



Abastor erythrogrammus l>au<Iin. 



C'olabcr cri/t/irof/ramjinis Ihnu]., Hist. des. Rept., 93, PI. 83 (1303) ; 

 Abastor erythrof/ramrnus B. and G., l. c, 125; Cope, I. c, 603, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mns., 738; BouL, I. c, II, 290. 



Head scarcely larger than the body; two small mternasals; no 

 preocular, the loreal and prefrontal entering orbit; post-oculars 

 2; temporals 1-2; upper labials 7; ventrals 157-185; subcaudals 

 37-55. Length 980 mm. (tail 130). 



Bluish black above with three longitudinal red stripes; belly 

 salmon color or reddish, with a series of bluish black spots on the 

 ends of the ventrals; head dark, the plates sometimes with yellow 

 margins; labials yellow, each with a dark spot. 



Hab. — Xorth Carolina to the Gulf coast; found once in Vir- 

 ginia by Prof. Cope. 



VIRGINIA-' B.andG. 



I. c, 127 ; Cope, I. c, 599, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 1006 ; Boul., I. c, IF, 



288. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, subequal; a loreal; two iuternasals; two 

 nasals; no preocular; scales smooth, without pits, in 15-17 rows; 

 anal divided; size small; head distinct. 



Hab. — North America. 



Scales in 15 rows; 2 preoculars, 1. V. valerice. 



Scales in 17 rows; 1-3 preoculars, 2. V. elegans. 



Virginia valeriae B. and G. 



I c, 127 ; Cope, I. c, 599, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 1000 ; Boul., I. c, II, 



289. 



Head scales normal : oculars 2-2; temporals 1-2; upper labials 

 6; scales wide, in 15 rows; ventrals 115-127; subcaudals 25-37. 

 Length 280 mm. (tail 40). 



Yellowish or grayish brown, usually with small black dots form- 

 ing longitudinal lines; belly dull yellow. 



Hab. — Maryland west to the Mississippi; apparently not in 

 Texas. 



Virginia elegans Kcnnicott. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1859, p. 99 ; Cope, I. c, 599, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 1007 ; Boul., l. c, II, 289. 



Exactly like V. valerke, but the scales are narrower and in 17 

 rows and the post-oculars vary from one to three. 



'''Prof. Cope places Virginut among the genera in which the dorsal hypapo- 

 physes are continiied to the tail. This is certainly not the case iu one sp;,'ci- 

 men of V- elegans which I have examined for this character. 




SA PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau., 



A specimen in my collection, from Bay St. Louis, ]Miss., 186 

 mm. long (tail 27), has seven upper labial.s on one side; veutrals 

 117; subcaudals 29. 



Hab. — Southern Illinois to Texas. 



FICIMIA Gray. 



Cat. Snakes, 80 (1849); Gyalopium Cope, L c, 603, and Rep. Xat. 

 Mus., 947 ; Ficimia BouL, I. c, II, 270. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, equal; rostral enters between internasals 

 and prefrontals, its upper border projecting; two internasals; one 

 nasal, half divided, its anterior portion usually fused with the first 

 labial; no loieal; one preocular; scales smooth, with pits, in 17 

 rows; anal divided; size moderate; head not very distinct. 



Hab. — Southwestern United States and INIexico. 



Ticimia cana Cope. 



Gyalopium canum Cope, Proc. Acad. Pliilu., 1860, p. 243; I. c, 603, 

 and Rep. Nat. Mus., 917 ; F. canaBoxA., I. c, II, 272. 



Rostral pointed behind, not iu contact with the frontal; inter- 

 nasals small; nasal fused with the first labial, with a groove down- 

 ward and backward from the nostril; no loreal, prefrontals reaching 

 labials; oculars 1-2; temporals 1-2; upper labials 7; scales in 17 

 rows; ventrals 130-131; subcaudals 28. Length about 205 mm. 

 (tail 28). 



Eeddish or yellowish, with brown, dark-edged cross-bands, 

 about thirty in number, more or less broken into spots on the sides; 

 belly yellowish white; a brown band across the head in front of 

 the orbits, beginning on the labials, and another across the 

 parietals. 



Hab. — Western Texas to Arizona. 



CHILOMENISCUS Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860, 339 ; I. c, 593, and Rep. Xat. :\Ius., 948 ; 

 BouL, I. c, II, 272. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, subequal, the posterior sometimes a little 

 enlarged; rostral prominent and separating llie internasals; no 

 loreal; one nasal, fused with the iuternasal; one preocular; scales 

 smooth, with pits, in 13 rows; anal divided; size small; head not 

 distinct. 



Hab. — Nevada to Sonora; Lower California. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Proocular touchiug uasal ; black ci'oss-bauds on back, 



1. C. ephi])picus. 

 Preocular not touchiug uasal; black rings around body, 



2. C. cincui». 

 Chilomeniscus ephippicus Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1875, 85 ; I. c, 594 ; Rep. Nat. Mns., 951 ; BouL, 

 I. c, II, 273. 



Head small with jiromhieut suout; scales in 18 rows; rostral just 

 reaches the prefrontals; nasal elongated and touchiug the pre- 

 ocular; oculars 1-2; temporals 1-1; upper labials 7; ventrals 

 109-113; subcaudals 22-28. Length 235' mm. (tail 30). 



Yellow or red with a series of black cross-bands, the ends of 

 which are rounded; on the tail they nearly form rings; the inter- 

 spaces are quite as wide as the bauds; belly white; top of head 

 black; snout red. 



Hab. — Nevada and Arizona; probably southern California. 

 Chilomeniscus cincWs Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 18G1, 303 ; C stramineus cinctns Cope, I. c, 59t; 



0. stramineus (part) Boul., I.e., 11, 273; C. cinctus Cope, Rep. 

 Nat. Mus., 952. 



Very similar to G. ephippicas, but the nasal is separated from 

 the preocular by the prefrontals, which reach the labials. Color 

 reddish white; body completely encircled by black rings which are 

 narrower on the belly. 



But three specimens are known, aud the full value of tne char- 

 acters are in doubt. 



Hab. — Lower California and southern Arizona. 



CEMOPHORA Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860, 244; I. c, 602, aad Rep. Nat. Mus., 938 ; 

 Boul., I. c, II, 213 ; Rhinostoma B. and G., I. c, 118. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, longer behind, no interspace; a loreal; 

 one or two preoculars; one nasal, sometimes divided; rostral 

 slightly projecting; scales smooth, with pits, in 19 rows; anal 

 entire; size moderate; head not distinct. 



Hab. — North America. 



Cemophora coccinea Blumenbach. 



Coluber coccineus Blum., Voigt's Ma^. of Phys., 1788, 11, PI. 1 ; IIM- 

 nostoma coccinea B. aud G., I. c, 118; Cemophora coeci7iea Cope, 



1. c, 603, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 938 ; Boul., I. c, II, 214. 



Body slender; head not distinct; snout projecting; eye small; 

 one nasal, half divided or double; loreal small; oculars 1 (2)-2 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JtlU. , 



(1); temporal.s 1 (2)-2; upper labials 6 or 7; scales in 1!) rows; 

 veutrals 156-188; subcaudals 35-45. Length 560 mm. (tail 80). 



Back scarlet, crossed by pairs of black bands, each pair enclos- 

 ing a whitish or yellow one about three scales wide; most scales in 

 the yellow band are dotted with black; belly yellowish, un- 

 marked; top of head red or yellow, with a black bar between the 

 orbits. 



Hab. — South Carolina :md Florida, west to the Mississippi. 



RHINOCHILUS B. and O. 



/. c, 120 ; Cope, l. c, 605, and Rep. Nat. Mas., 930 ; Boul., I. c, II, 

 212. 



Maxillary teeth smooth, increasing posteriorly, no interspace; 

 one loreal ; one or two preoculars; two interuasals; two nasals; 

 rostral somewhat projecting; scales smooth, with pits, in 17-23 

 rows; anal entire; subcaudals usually entire; size medium; head 

 slightly distinct. 



Hab. — -North and South America. 



Ehinochilus lecontii B. and G. 



I. c, 120 : Cope, I. c, 606, and Rep. Nat. Mas., 931 ; Boul., I. c, II, 

 212; Van Den., I. c, 174. 



Body moderately stout; head scales normal; one large pre- 

 ocular, occasionally with a small one below; two post-oculars; tem- 

 porals 2-3 (one in my collection has a small additional temporal 

 in the first row on one side); upper labials 8; scales in 23 rows; 

 ventrals 189-212; subcaudals 40-55, not divided. The largest I 

 have seen, measured 965 mm. (tail 135). 



There is a series of blotches on the back, alternating black and 

 red or orange : the red ones nearly quadrate, the black ones 

 transversely wider; on the sides, below the blotches, some scales 

 are marked with black or yellow; belly white or yellow, with 

 black blotches on the ends of some ventrals. A living specimen 

 from Pecos, Tex., has twenty-seven brilliant scarlet blotches on 

 the body and twelve on the tail; below the scarlet l)lotches each 

 scale is yellow with a black centre, while on the corresponding por- 

 tion of the black areas, which extend to the fourth row, each scale 

 has a yellow centre; many of the scales in the outer rows are 

 tinged with red. The snout in front of the frontal plate is red, 

 behind that black, each scale marked with yellow, Lai)ials 

 3'ellow, all the upper ones posterior to the third, heavily margined 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF I'HILADELPHIA. 87 



with black. A second specimen is very similar in color, but the 

 bla<;k on the ends of the veutrals often runs up on the scales to 

 about the fourth row. 



According to Mr. Van Denburg, the spots on the back, which 

 ordinarily are red, are at times white, but I have never myself 

 seen such a specimen. 



Hab. — Southwestern Kansas and western Texas to California. 



HYPSIGLENA Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Pliila., 18G0, 24G ; I. c, 617, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 953; 

 Boul., I. c, II, 208, 



Postei-ior maxillary teeth strongly enlarged, smooth, diacrau- 

 terian; one loreal; two iuternasals; two nasals; vertical, elliptical 

 pupil; scales smooth, with pits, in 19-21 rows; anal divided; size 

 medium to small ; head distinct. 



Hab. — ^N'orth and Central America. 

 Hypsiglena ochrorhynclia Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Pliila. , 1860, p. 246 ; I. c, 617, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 953 ; 

 Boul., I. c, II, 209 ; II. chlorop7i(eu, II. ochrorhyncha and E. 

 texana Stej., No. Am. Fauna, No. 7, 205. 



Size small; body round; head distinct; head plates normal; 2 

 nasals; 1 loreal; 1 large preocular, with usually a small one below 

 it; post-oculars 2; labials 8; temporals 1-2; scales in 21 rows; 

 ventrals 168-187; subcaudals 40-55. 



Length 320 mm. (tail 60). 



Gray or yellowish, with a dorsal series of dark-brown blotches 

 and two alternating series on each side; a dark stripe through 

 each eye, running back to the nape, and a median one between 

 them; upper surface of head and labials faintly dotted with 

 brown; belly white. 



The convexity of the head attributed to H. texana Stejn. 

 appears to me abnormal, and the difference in the lateral head 

 stripe is trivial. 



Hab. — Texas to southei'n California; northern Mexico. 



RHADINEA Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1863, 100, and Dromicus, I. c, 618; Liophis 

 (part) and Rhadinea Boul., I. c. II, 127 and 160 ; Rhadinca Cope, 

 Rep. Nat. Mus., 754. 



Posterior maxillary teeth slightly lengthened, smooth, sometimes 



a slight interspace ; one loreal; one preocular; two internasals; two 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



nasals; scales smooth, without pits, in 15-21 rows; anal divided; 

 size very small ; head distinct. 



Hab. — North and South America. 



Rhadinea flavilata Cope. 



Dromkns jhivilatus Cope, Proc. Acad. Phila., 1871, p. 322, and I. c, 

 618 ; Liophis -flnvilatns Boul., I. c, II, 143 ; RJiadinea flavilata 

 Cope, Traus. Am. Phil. Soc., XVIII, 203 (1895), and Rep. Nat. 

 Mus., 759. 



Head slightly distinct; maxillary teeth 12-13, the last two 

 enlarged and separated from the others by a slight interval ; man- 

 dibular teeth 17, subequal; head plates normal; loreal obliquely 

 quadrangular; nasal indistinctly divided above and below the 

 nostril; one large preocular; two post-oculars, the lower one small; 

 temporals 1-2; upper labials 7; lower labials 8; posterior chin 

 shields longest and separated behind; scales in 17 rows, smooth, 

 without pits; ventrals 126-129; subcaudals 66-77. 



Length 270 mm. (tail 77). 



Reddish brown above, somewhat lustrous in life, each scale 

 finely dotted with dax'k brown; belly light yellow, invading the 

 edges of the two outer rows of scales; top of head a little darker 

 than the back and indistinctly vermiculated with light brown; a 

 faint dark band from the rostral to the temporals, slightly bordered 

 above with yellow and below with black; labials colored like the 

 ventrals, the upper ones slightly spotted with dark brown. The 

 foregoing description is taken from two living specimens, one from 

 Florida and one from Bay St. Louis, Miss. 



As none of the three examples of this rare snake Avhich I have 

 examined, possess scale pits, it cannot be placed in Liophis, as is 

 done by Boulenger, but falls into the section of Rhadinea with 

 slightly diacranteriau dentition. 



Hab. — North Carolina to Florida and Mississippi. 



HETERODON Latieillc. 



Hist, des Kept., IV., 33 (1800); B. and G., I. c, 51 ; I. c, Cope, 153, 

 and Rep. Nat. 3Ius., 7G0; Boul., I. c, II., 153. 



Posterior maxillary teeth much enlarged, smooth, an interspace; 

 body stout; head long and shghtly distinct; snout short; rostral 

 strongly projecting and recurved ; a small plate behind the rostral ; 

 sometimes a number of small scales separating internasals and pre- 

 frontals; eye surrounded by a circle of scales; 1 loreal; 2 nasals. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrillA. 89 



occasionally a small post-nasal below; scales keeled, with two pits, 

 in 23-25 rows; anal divided. 



Hab. — Norch America. 



The "sand snakes," "hog-nosed snakes," or "blowing 

 vipers," as they are variously called, are able to expand and flatten 

 the anterior portion of the body when alarmed, and thereby to 

 assume a threatening aspect, as in the cobras, but they are abso- 

 lutely harmless. 



Key to the Species. 



a. — Rostral narrower than space between eyes: 

 No scales between prefrontals; size larger, 



1. H. platyrhlnns. 

 Prefrontals separated by scales; size smaller, 2. B. simus. 

 b. — Rostral as broad as space between eyes: 



Prefrontals and interuasals separated by scales, 



3. H. nasicus. 



Heterodon platyrhinus Latreillo. 



I. c. 32 ; R. plati/rhinos, IT. cognatus, H. nujer and //. atmodes B. 

 and G., I. c, 51-57 ; //. plnty'r/unus Cope, I. c, 643, and Rep. Nat. 

 Mus., 761; BouL, I. c, II, 151. 



Largest of the genus; maxillary teeth 11-12, the last two much 

 enlarged and separated by a wide interval; 1, sometimes 2, small 

 azygous plates behind the rostral, separating internasals; usually 

 without small plates between the prefrontals; frontal a little longer 

 than broad; 9-11 scales in the orbital ring, in addition to the 

 supraoculars; upper labials 8 (9); temporals 4 (3)-5; 1 jtair of 

 chin shields; scales usually in 25 rows (occ. 23); ventrals 120- 

 150; subcaudals 37-60. Length 810 mm. (tail 153). 



Color variable, sometimes entirely black above; usually brown, 

 reddish brown or yellow, with a dorsal series of dark brown or 

 black spots, separated by narrow interspaces, one and a half or 

 two scales wide ; a lateral alternating series of small dark blotches, 

 and sometimes ti'aces of a third; belly greenish white, yellowish 

 or reddish, often clouded with dusky; two dark blotches on the 

 nape, a band across the prefrontals and an oblique streak behind 

 the eye. 



Hab. — New Jersey west to the Missouri river, and south to 

 Florida and Texas. 




DO rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Heterodon simus I-- 



Coluber simus L., S3'st. Xat., Ed. XII, 375 ; II. simus 1]. and G., I. c, 

 59 ; Cope, I. c, (313, and Rep. Xat. Mus., 770; Boul., I. c, II, 156. 



Smaller than ^)/a^^/7ti/io.s; snout oioderate; maxillary teeth 10- 

 11; 8 to 9 scales, in addition to the azygous plate separating the 

 internasals and prefrontals; frequently a small subpost-uasal; 

 frontal as broad as long; 10-11 scales in orbital ring; labials 8; 

 temporals small ; 1 pair of chin shields; scales in 25 rows (rarely 

 27); veutrals 114-134; subcaudals 30-55. Length 400 mm. 

 (tail 90). 



Color usually grayish or yellowish brown, with the dorsal series 

 of spots blackish brown, separated by narrow interspaces usually 

 tinged with yellow; one or two series of small blackish blotches on 

 the sides; belly white or yellow, more or less cbuded with dusky; 

 two dark blotches on the nape, parietals blackish, the bar on pre- 

 frontals and post-ocular streak present. Tn some color phases this 

 form resembles both of the other species ; but may always be known 

 from jilatyrhimis by the small plates behind the rostral being from 

 4-10, instead of one or two; and from yia^icus by the presence of 

 two more scale rows and a much lighter abdomen. 



Hab. — Georgia and Florida to the Mississippi. 



Heterodon nasicus B. and G. 



I. r., 61 ; II. n. nasicus and //. n. Kennerlyi, Cope, I. c, 641, and 

 Rep. Xat. Mus., 712, 773; II. nasicus Boul., I. c, II, 156. 



Snout very short and much recurved ; maxillary teeth 8-10; 

 azygous plates as in slintis, sometimes 20 or more; 10-11 scales in 

 orbital ring; as a rule no inferior post-nasal; sometimes an addi- 

 tional loreal; upper labials 8; 1 pair of chin shields; scales in 23 

 rows; ventrals 128-146; subcaudals 32-45 (a specimen in my col- 

 lection has one or two subcaudals undivided). The largest I have 

 seen, came from Pecos, Tex., and measured 610 mm. (tail 78); 

 another, 555 mm. (tail 100). 



Grayish brown, sometimes yellow on the back; a doi'sal and two 

 lateral rows of spots, usually smaller than in sbnm and often not 

 distinct, sometimes the dorsal spots are only indiciated by a darker 

 shade; the belly is whitish with black blotches, usually entirely 

 black in the centre; three elongated black blotches on the nape; 

 an oblique streak behind the eye; a narrow band across the frontal 

 4vnd another on the prefrontals; parietals blackish. 



Ilab. — ^Fontana to Texas and Arizona; northern Mexico. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 91 



TRIMORPHODON Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Phila.. 1861, 297 ; I. c, 678, ami Rep. Nat. Mus., 1101 ; 

 Boul., I. c, III. 53. 



Posterior maxillary teeth elongated, grooved and separated by au 

 interval; anterior teeth elongated; 2 loreals; 1 or 2 preoculars ; 2 

 interuasals; 2 nasals; pupil vertical; scales smooth, with pits, in 

 21-27 rows; anal divided; size medium. 



Hab. — North America and JNIexico. 



Trimorphodon lyrophanes Cope. 



I. c, 297 ; I. c, 679, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1102 ; Boul., I. c, III, 56. 



Seven maxillaiy teeth; head distinct; head plates normal; 2 

 loreals, one in front of the other; 2 preoculars, usually a small 

 subocular; 3 post-oculars; labials 9; scales in 21 rows; veutrals 

 236; subcaudals 70. Length 710 mm. (tail 110). 



Light gray; deep brown spots, in pairs, on the back (21 pairs iu 

 the type specimen); an irregular series of lateral spots; belly 

 white, with small dark spots on the ends of some ventrals; head 

 light gray, banded with darker. 



Hab. — Arizona and Lower California. 



SIBON Fitzinger. 



Neue Class Rapt., 29 (1826) ; Cope, I. c, 670, aufi Rep. Nat. Mus., 1106; 

 Leptodira (part) Boul., I. c, III, 88. 



Posterior maxillary teeth elongated, grooved and separated by 

 an interspace; 1 loreal; 1 to 3 preoculars; 2 nasals; 2 iuternasals; 

 pupil vertical; scales smooth, with pits, in 19-25 rows; anal 

 divided; size moderate. 



Hab. — North and South America. 



Cope appears to be justified in separating the American species 

 with divided anal, from the Asiatic with single anal; Leptodira 

 Gunther having included both, au arrangement which is followed 

 by Boulenger. 



Sibon septentrionalis Kennicott. 



Dipsas septentrionalis Kenn.. U. S. Mex. Bound. Surv., II, 16, PI. 8, 

 fig. I ; Sibon septentrionale Cope, I. c, 678, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 1107 ; Leptodira septentrionalis Boul., I. c, III, 93. 



Head very distinct; body tapering; head scales normal; 3 

 preoculars, the lower one very small; pcst-oculars 2; temporals 

 1-2; labials 8; scales in 21-23 rows; ventrals 194; subcaudals 

 "65-72. Length 750 mm. (tail about one-fifth). 




92 PROCKEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau., 



Grayish or yellow above, Avith dark-brown saddle-shaped spots, 

 six or eight scales long and nearly reaching the ventrals; belly 

 yellowish; top of head and part of the upper labials light brown 

 with blackish markings; an indistinct pale band aci'oss the nape. 



Hab. — Texas to Arizona ; northern Mexico. 



ERYTHROLAMPRUS Waglcr. 



Syst. Araph., 187(1830) ; Cope, I. c, 676 ; B3ul., I. c, III, 199 ; Conio- 

 phanes Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 1096. 



Posterior maxillary teeth elongated, grooved and separated by 

 an interspace; 1 loreal; 1 or 2 preoculars; 2 nasals; pupil round; 

 scales smooth, without pits, in 15-25 rows; anal divided; size 

 moderate. 



Hab. — North and South America. 



Erythrolamprus imperialis Baird. 



TcmiiopJiis imperMis Baird, U. S. Mex. Bound. Surv., II, 23, PI. XIX, 

 fiw. 1 ; B. imperidlis Cope, I. c, 676 ; Boul., I. c, III, 206 ; Gonio- 

 phanes imperialis Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 1097. 



Head not very distinct; size small; head shields normal; 2 

 nasals; 1 loreal; oculars 1-2; temporals 1-2; upper labials 8 (7); 

 scales in 19 rows; ventrals 120-143; subcaudals 67-94. Length 

 about 410 mm. (tail IGO). 



Light brown, with a blackish vertebral stripe, and one on each 

 side; scales below the lateral stripes pale brown; a yellow line with 

 black edges from nostril to temporals; upper labials whitish, dotted 

 with black; belly reddish, sometimes with black dots. 



Hab. — Southern Texas to Central America. 



TANTILLA B. and G. 



I. c, 131 ; Cope. I. c, 597, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1110 ; Uomalocranium^^ 

 Boul., I. c. III, 213. 



Posterior maxillary teeth slightly elongated, grooved and sepa- 

 rated by an interspace; no loreal; 1 preocular; 2 nasals: 2 inter- 

 nasals; scales smooth, without pits, in 15 rows; anal divided; size 

 small ; head flat and not very distinct. 



Hab. — North and South America. 



^' Tantilla is preferred to Homalocranium for the reasons given under 



Stoi'ena. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF riTILADELPHIA. 93 



Key to the Species in United States. 



a. — Upper labials 7: 



«\ — A yellow or white collar on nape: 



A black band behind collar; ventrals less than 158, 



1. 2\ coronata. 

 Black dots behind collar; ventrals more than 167, 



2. T. eiseni. 



h\ — No collar on nape; head black, . . 3. T. nigriceps. 



b. — Upper labials 6, 4. T. gracilis. 



Tantilla coronata B. and G. 



I. c., 131 ; Cope, I. c, 598, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1114 ; no7nalocranium 

 coronatum Boul., Ill, 218. 



Size small and slender; head not distinct; head plates normal; 

 no loreal; posterior nasal in contact with preocular; oculars 1-2; 

 temporals 1-1 (2); upper labials 7; scales in 15 rows; ventrals 

 138-158; subcaudals 35-58. Length 220 mm. (tail 35). 



Eeddish brown above; belly whitish; top of head dark brown 

 with a yellow cross-band behind the parietals, bordered behind by 

 a black one two scales wide. 



Hab. — Gulf States; Georgia to Mississippi. 



Tantilla eiseni Stejneger. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1895, 117. 



Size rather larger; post-nasal almost separated from the pre- 

 ocular by the prefrontal; ventrals 167-181; subcaudals 58-65. 

 Length 365 mm. (tail 82). Much resembling T. coronata, but 

 w^ith a more slender body, a longer tail and a greater number of 

 ventrals and subcaudals. The only specimens known have been 

 more than twenty years in spirits, but from Mr. Stejneger's descrip- 

 tion the color must have been like coronata, but the collar was 

 bordered behind by black dots in place of a band. 



Hab. — Seven specimens known, all from Fresno, California. 



Tantilla nigriceps Kennicott. 



Troc. Acad. Phila., 1860, 328; Cope, I. c, 598, aud Eep. Nat. Mus., 

 1113; H. pkmiceps (part) Boul., I. c, III, 226. 



Size small; post-nasal usually in contact with preocular; oculars 

 1-1 (2); temporals 1-1; upper labials 7; scales in 15 rows; 

 ventrals 121-168; subcaudals 42-66. Length 275 mm. (tail one- 

 fifth). 



Yellowish biown above; white underneath; top of head blackish 

 brown ; no collar. 




Q-l PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



1 Mr. Boulenger considers this form identical with Coluber plani- 



ceps Blain. ; the type of that species, however, came from 'Lower 



California, and there is no proof that nigriceps extends west even 



to California proper. Van Denburg doe^ not mention it 'as an 



inhabitant of the State, and the evidence of its 'presence even in 



Arizona is not of the best. 



Hab. — Texas and New ^Mexico; possibly Arizona. 



Tantilla gracilis B. and G. 



I.e., 132; Cope, ?. f., 598, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1111; //. gracilis 

 Boul., I. c, III, 228. 



Size small; post-nasal occasionally .separated from preocnlar by 

 prefrontal; oculars 1-1 ; temporals 1-1; upper labials 6; 15 [rows 

 of scales; ventrals 112-137; subcaudals 41-51. Length 215 

 mm. (tail 43_). 



Reddish or greenish brown above, some scales speckled with 

 darker; belly salmon color in life; top of head dark brown; 

 labials yellowish brown. Through the courtesy of Mr. JuUus 

 Hurter, of St. Louis, the Zoological Society has lately received 

 five living specimens of this little snake, taken by him in Jefferson 

 county, Mo. 



Hab — Missouri to Texas. 



ELAFS Schneider. 



Hist. Amph., II, 289 (1801); B. and G., I. c, 21 ; Cope, I. c, 679, and 

 Rep. Nat. Mus., 1119; Boul., I. c. III, 411. 



A pair of large, perforated poison fangs in front; no other max- 

 illary teeth; no loreal; 2 iuteruasals; 2 nasals; pupil vertical, 

 elliptical; scales smooth, without pits, in 15 rows; anal divided; 

 subcaudals single or double, or both; body cylindrical; head not 

 very distinct; tail short. 



Hab. — jSorth and South America. 



The snakes of this genus are beautifully ringed with black, re 

 and yellow in varying proportions. All are venomous and 

 structurally related to the cobras. Several species of harmless 

 snakes so nearly resemble them in color, especially the red and 

 yellow-ringed forms of Ophlbolus doliatas, that novices in herpe- 

 tology should beware of handling living specimens presenting these 

 colors, until assured that they are not dealing with an Elaps. 

 There arc some twenty-five known specie.*, extending from South 

 Carolina to Brazil, two only being found within the United States.' 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPniA. 95 



Snout black; pariehils yellow; first wide ring black, 



1. E. fulvlus. 

 Sntnit and parietaJs black; first wide ring red, 2. E. euryxanthus. 



Elaps fulvius I- 



Coluber fulvius L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 381 ; Elaps faUins , E. tcnere 

 and E. tristis B. and G., I. c, 21-23; E. fulvius and E. distans 

 Cope, I. c, GSO, 681, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1120, 1123; E. fulvius 

 (part) Boul., I. c , III, 422; E. fulvius Stej., Rep. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 

 1893, 359. 



Rostral small, not extending between the internasals, which ai'e 

 rather small; oculars 1-2; temporals 1-1 (2); upper labials 7, 

 third largest; ventrals 203-237; subcaudals 25-45. The largest 

 I have seen, measured 930 mm. (tail 70). 



There are 11-17 black rings from seven to ten scales long, and 

 the same number of red ones from 8-12 scales long ou the body; 

 the black ones are bordered before and behind by yellow rings, 

 one or two scales long; many scales in the red rings are mottled 

 with black; there are three or four black and an equal number of 

 yellow rings on the tail, but no red. Top of the head in advance 

 of the parietals is black, followed by a yellow ring extending to 

 the angle of the mouth; then a black one 5-8 scales long. Ex- 

 amples are said to be found in Florida with the black rings much 

 narrowed, and the snout red instead of black. These are referred 

 by Prof. Cope to E. distans Kenn. , the typo of which was from 

 Chihuahua. Such specimens must in any event be very rare, for 

 the Zoological Society has received more than eighty Elaps from 

 Florida, not one of which has exhibited the characters of distans. 



Hab. — South Carolina to western Texas and up the Mississippi 

 valley, occasionally to southern Ohio; northern Mexico. 



Elaps euryxanthus Kennicott. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1860,337; Cope, I. c, 681, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 1125 ; Boul., I. c, III, 415; Stej., I. c, 362. 



This little-known species closely resembles E. fulvius; the rostral 

 is produced posteriorly and extends slightly between the internasals; 

 the frontal is very small; the black of the snout extends back over 

 the parietals and is followed by a yellow ring, then by a wide red 

 one; the red rings do not show black mottling on the scales. Ven- 

 trals 215-241 ; subcaudals 21-29. 



Hab. — Central and southern Arizona; northern Mexico. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JaD., 



VIPERIDiE. 



Kexj to the Genera. 



a. — No rattle, Ancistrodon. 



b. — A rattle : 



Top of head with large plates, Sistrurus. 



Top of head with small scales, Crotalus. 



ANCISTRODON Beauvais. 



Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, IV, 381 (1799); Agkntrodon and ToxicopJds 

 B. and G., I. c, 17-19 ; Ancistrodon Cope, I. c, 681, and Kep. Nat. 

 Mus., 131 ; Boul., I. c, III, 519. 



A pair of large erectalile, perforated poison fangs in front of 

 npperjaw; no other maxillary teeth; a pit between the eye and 

 the nostril; no rattle; top of head covered with large plates; scales 

 keeled, with pits, in 21-27 rows; anal entire; subcaudals single or 

 double, or both; size large to medium. 



Hab. — Asia, North and Central America. 



Key to the Species of the United States. 



No loreal plate; a pair of post-parietals, . . 1. A. pisevvorus. 

 A loreal plate; no post-parietals, 2. A. contortrix. 



Ancistrodon piscivorus Lac6pi5de. 



Crotahis piscivorus Lacep., Serp., II, 130 and 424 (1789); Toxicophis 

 piscivo7' us and T. pufjnax'B. and G., I. c, 19, 20 ; ^4. liisciviorus Cope, 

 I. c, 683, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 1133 ; Boul., /. c, III, 520 ; Stej., I. c, 

 406. 



Size large; body very stout; tail short, from one-seventh to 

 one-sixth of length; head broad behind, flat on top; snout 

 rounded; canthus sharp; head plates normal, but with usually a 

 pair of small additional plates behind parietals; no loreal; pre- 

 oculars 2, the upper much the largest ;. post-oculars 2, with one or 

 two suboculars; upper labials 8 (occ. 7), the third entering the 

 orbit; scales in 25 rows, strongly keeled ; ventrals 130-147; sub- 

 caudals 39-48, more or less of which are undivided, usually the 

 anterior ones. A specimen from Florida, now living in the 

 Zoological Gardens, 1,550 mm. long and 250 mm. in circum- 

 ference, is the largest I have ever seen. 



The color pattern is obscure; half -grown examples are usually 

 dark chestnut or greeni.sh olive, with blackish brown cro.ss-bands 

 Avith irregular borders. Older ones become much darker and the 

 bands are obscured; belly yellow, clouded with brown. Head 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



blackish browu ; an obli(|ue streak behind the eye and a yellowish 

 white band on the upper labials. 



Hab. — North Carolina and Florida, through the Gulf ^States to 

 Texas; up the Mississippi valley, occasionally to Illinois. 



The name ' ' water moccasin, ' ' properly belonging to this species, 

 is often wrongly applied to large, dark individuals belonging to 

 Tropidonotus ; but the shape of the head, the presence of the loreal 

 pit, and the sharply tapering tail, easily distinguish it. 



Anoistrodon contortrix L. 



Boa contortrix L. Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 373; Agklslrodon contortrix, 

 B. and G., I. c, 17 ; Stej., I. c, 401 ; Ancistrodon contortrix Cope, 

 I. c, 683, and Rep. Nat. iMus., 1135 ; Boul. I. c. III, 523. 



Smaller and less stout than A. pisclvorus; no post-parietal plates; 

 loreal present; eye entirely separated from labials by the sub- 

 oculars; upper labials 8 (occ. 7); scales in 23 rows (rarely 25); 

 ventrak 145-155; subcaudals 31-52, some of the anterior ones 

 usually undivided. A large specimen from Pennsylvania measures 

 1,000 mm. (tail 130). 



Body color peculiar yellowish pink, often pale drab, crossed by 

 ■irregular brownish red bands with darker borders, wider and often 

 with pale centres on the sides; a series of small circular brownish 

 red spots on outer rows and ends of the ventrals, anteriorly these 

 are mostly on the ventrals; belly yellowish or pink, some.times 

 maculated with darker; chin and throat yellowish white; sides of 

 head cream color; top often bright copper, whence the name 

 " copperhead." In life, the markings vary greatly in outline and 

 richness of color. 



Hab, — Massachusetts south to Florida; west to Illinois, Okla- 

 homa and central Texas. 



SISTRURTJS Garman. 



No. Amer. Kept., 110 (1833); Crotalophorm B. and G., I. c, 11; 

 Cope, I. c, 684; Sistrurus, Boul., I. c, III., 569; Stej., I. c, 410; 

 Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 1140. 



A pair of large erectable, perforated poison fangs in front of 

 upper jaw : no other maxillary teeth; loreal pit and rattle present; 

 top of head covered with large plates; scales keeled, wuth pits, in 

 21-25 rows; anal and subcaudals not divided; sizes small to 

 medium. 



Hab. — North Amei'ica and Mexico. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau.^ 



Key to the Species in United States. 



Post-nasal in contact with preocular; the hght line to angle of 



mouth begin at nostril, 1. *S. catenatus. 



Post-nasal separated from preocular, by loreal; light line to angle 

 of mouth begins at the eye, 2. >S'. miliar ius. 



Sistrurus catenatus Kafinesqne. 



Crotaliiius calenatus Eaf., Amer. Monthly 3Iag., 1818, p. 41. 



Short and stout; tail about one-ninth of length; rattle small; 

 head plates normal; there is no large loreal, and the upper pre- 

 ocular is in contact with the post-nasal; occasionally the anterior 

 end of the preocular is cutoff, forming a small upper loreal; scales 

 in 23-27 rows, one or two of the outer smooth; ventrals 135-157; 

 subcaudals 17-34. 



The color is gray, brown or even black, with seven series of 

 blotches on the back; the dorsal series dark brown with a narrow 

 light border, anteriorly often crescent-shaped, posteriorly becoming 

 subcircular; the second series roundish and indistinct, more or less 

 alternating with the dorsals; third, vertically elongated, colored 

 like the dorsals and opposite to them; fourth small and on the 

 outer rows and ends of the ventrals; belly yellowish, more or less 

 marked with black. Top of head with a light band across the 

 anterior end of frontal; two dark bands running back from the 

 supraoculars to the first dorsal spot, and a dark spot between them 

 on the parietals and frontal ; a dark oblique streak behind the eye 

 bordered above and below by a light line, the lower one beginning 

 at the nostril and running to the angle of the mouth; two lisrht 

 lines from the loreal pit to the labial border. 



It has been customary to divide this species into a northern and a 

 southern race, but the characters ascribed to them are less constant 

 than has been supposed, and they were, in fact, united by Mr. 

 Boulenger; nevertheless, the greater proportion of the individuals 

 found within each geographical area do present sufficient differ- 

 ences to warrant their separation : 



Scales usually in 25 rows; dorsal spots usually less than 40, 



1. S. c. catenatus. 

 Scales usually in 23 rows; dorsal spots usually more than 40, 



2 S. c. eonsoi's. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



Sistrurus catenatus catenatus Italhicsque. 



I. c, 41 ; Crotalophorus tergeminus and C. Kirtlundii B. and G., 

 I. c, 14, 16. G. c. catenatus Cope, I. c, 685 ; Sistrurus catenatus 

 (part) Boul., I. c, III, 570 ; S. catenatus Stej., I. c, 411 ; S. c. cate- 

 natus Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 1146. 



In this northern race, the scale rows are usually 25, but occa- 

 sionally 23 or 27 ; the dorsal spots are larger and fewer in number 

 than in eonsors, being generally from 37-41 in number, of which 

 3-5 are on the tail, but an occasional example has them as numer- 

 ous as in the southern form. No. 7,241 Academy coll. is a 

 catenatus from Fort Kiley, Ivans., with 27 rows of scales and 44 

 dorsal blotches, of which 9 are on the tail, leaving the number of 

 body spots about as they should be. No. 7,240 has also 27 rows, 

 and only 37 spots, with a black belly. Nos. 7,243-44 are two 

 interesting specimens, collected together in INIichigan; the former 

 has 23 rows and 37 spots and the belly is immaculate yellow; the 

 other one has 27 rows and the belly is wholly black. 



The colors are usually darker and the lateral spots more distinct 

 than in eonsors. Occasional examples are entirely black. Ven- 

 trals 136-150; subcaudals 17-29. 



Length about 900 mm. 



Hab. — Ohio to Kansas, and north into Canada. Formerly 

 found in western New York, but it has now disappeared from most 

 cultivated localities. 



Sistrurus catenatus eonsors B. and G. 



Crotalophorus eonsors and C. Echcardsii B. and G., I. c, 12, 15 ; 0. 

 c. edwardsii Cofe, I. c, 685 ; Sistrurus catenatus (part) Boul., I. c, 

 III, 570 ; Garman., Bull, Ess. Inst., XXIV, 101, 1894 ; S. c. eonsors 

 and S. c. edicardsii Stej., I. c, 415, 416 ; S. c. edicardsii Cope, Rep. 

 Nat. Mus. 1144. 



!: Compared with the preceding this subspecies is probably rather 



smaller; the scutellation is similar, but the scale rows are usually 



23, though sometimes 25; the dorsal spots are smaller and more 



numerous, being in most cases 40-50 in number, of which 4-6 are 



on the tail. V^ariations toward S. c. catenatus are not uncommon, 



however; No. 7,234 Academy coll. from Hennessey, Okla., 



labeled edioardsi, has 25 rows of scales and 44 spots, and No. 



7,235, from Texas, has 23 rows of scales and but 37 spots. 



The correct name of the southwestern form of Sistrurus has 



been iu doubt, owing to the loss of Baird and Girard's type of 



C. eonsors, and the omission of some important details from their 




100 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



original description. The Zoological Society has lately received a 

 living Slstrurus from Port Lavaca, Calhoun county, Tex , practi- 

 cally the type locality of consors, which agrees with Baird and 

 Girard's description of that species in all respects, as well as with 

 Garman's Matagorda specimens. It has 25 rows of scales, the two 

 outer, smooth; 53 dorsal blotches (45 on the body and 8 on the 

 tail); ventralg 153; subcaudals 27; length 520 mm, (tail 70). 

 There is no large loreal and the preocular is in full contact with 

 the post-nasal. As edwardsi is known to sometimes present 25 

 scale rows, there is nothing to separate the two forms except an 

 insignificant difference in the number of spots. Regarding them as 

 identical, the name consors has priority. 



Hab. — Indian Territory to northern Mexico; west to Arizona. 



Sistrurus millarius L. 



Crotnlus miliarius, L., Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 372 ; Croialophorus mili- 

 arius B. and G., I. c,, 11 ; Cope, L c, 685 ; Sistrurus miliarius Boul., 

 I. c, III, 569; Stej., I. c, 418; Sistncriis miliarus, Cope, Rep. Nat. 

 Mus., 1141. 



Smaller and more slender than S. catenatus ; rattle very small ; 

 loreal present, sej)arating the post-nasal from the preocular; scales 

 in 23 rows (occ. 21); ventrals 127-140; subcaudals 20-36. 

 Length about 550 mm. (tail between one-seventh and one-eighth). 



Gray, yellowish or brbwn, more or less dark; seven series of 

 blotches on the body, disposed much as in the genus; the dorsals 

 are dark, often purplish, irregular in shape, and from 38-45 in 

 number; the interspaces on the vertebral line are often red; the 

 head markings are much as in the last species, but the dark spot 

 on the parietals is absent and the lower light line on the side of the 

 head begins on the post-oculars, instead of the nasal; belly yellow 

 with blackish blotches. 



Hab. — North Carolina and Florida to Texas; up the Mississippi 

 valley, probably to Illinois. 



CEOTALUS L. 



Sjst. Nat., Ed. X, 214 ; B. and G.,l. c.,\; Cope, I. c, 686, and Rep. 

 Nat. Mus., 1149 ; Boul., /. c, III, 572. 



A pair of large erectable, perforated poison fangs in front of the 

 upper jaw; no other maxillary teeth; loreal pit and rattle present; 

 top of head covered with small scales; scales keeled (outer sometimes 

 smooth), with pits, in 23-31 rows; anal and subcaudals not divided. 

 Size medium or large. 



Hab. — North and South America. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILA DELI'HIA. lOt 



Xotwitlistanding the wide range of this genus, through the 

 ■whole of Auiorica from lower Canada to Brazil, its members form 

 a very compact group and though many of the species resemble 

 each other closely, there is a curious absence of transitional charac- 

 ters, so that it is necessary to recognize as distinct species, forms as 

 closely similar as adamanteus and atrox, as well as confluentus and 

 oregonus (= lacifer B. and G. ), in which the differences, though 

 slight, are, as far as I can discover, absolutely constant. 



Key to the Species oj the United States. 



A. — Anterior nasal in contact with rostral: 



(I. — Back with chevron-shaped cross-bauds; tail black. 



I. C. horridus. 

 b. — Back with spots; or cross-bands posteriorly: 



a\ — Rostral as high or higher than wide; 3-5 scales be- 

 tween suboculars and labials : 

 a'. — Dorsal spots lozenge shaped: 



Lozenges distinct; a light vertical line in front 

 of nostril; bands on tail not very distinct, 



2. C. adamanteus. 



Lozenges with angles cut off; no light line in 



front of nostril; tail white with black bands, 



3. C. atrox. 



l\ Dorsal spots rhomboid ; cross-bands behind : 



Head scales larger; dark streak beginning at 



anterior corner of eye, . 4. C confluentn^. 



Head scales smaller; dark streak beginning at 



posterior corner of eye, . 5. C. oregonvs. 



(.,_ Dorsal spots with a light centre on each side of 



the median line, .... 6. C. molossm. 



^l\ Dorsal spots small, in two rows, . 7. G. pricel. 



ji_ Rostral wider than high; 2 scales between sub- 

 oculars and labials : 



(t^ Supraoculars not produced into a horn: 



Spots anteriorly; cro?s-bands behind, 



8. C. tigris. 

 Greenish, with black cross-bands, 



9. C. lepidus. 



j\ Supraocular produced into a horn, 10. C- cerastes. 



B. Anterior nasal separated from rostral by scales, 



II. C mitchellL 



Crotalus molossus B. and G. 



I. e., 10 ; Cope, I. c, .689, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1154 ; Stej., I. c, 424 ; 

 C. lerrificus (part) Boxil., I. c, III, 573. 

 Snout broad; rostral rather small, its width about equal to its 

 height; scales on top of the muzzle larger than in any other North 




102 I'llOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



American species, and usually about eight in number; five or six 

 rows of scales between supraoculars, often two larger ones in 

 front; four or five rows of scales between the suboculars and upper 

 labials; 29 rows of dorsal scales; ventrals 187-203; subcau- 

 dals 25. 



Length about 1,400 mm. 



Sulphur yellow above; tail lilack or dark brown; dorsal spots 

 chestnut brown, transversely wide and irregularly lozenge shaped, 

 usually lighter in the centres of their lateral parts; these spots are 

 ootnmonly prolonged down to the ventrals; l^elly yellowish, clouded 

 posteriorly; a dark oblique streak behind the eye. 



Hab. — New Mexico, Arizona and Sonora. 



In the size and arrangement of the plates on the muzzle, this 

 species approaches C. durmus of South America. 



Crotalus adamanteus Beauvais. 



Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, IV, 36S (1799); B. and G., I c, 3 ; C. a. ada- 

 manteus Coipe, I. c, 690, and Rep. Nat. ]Mus., 1161 ; C. durissuis^^ 

 Boul., I. c, III, 578; C. adamanteus Stej., I. c, 433. 



Largest of the genus; head broad behind, triangular; rostral 



higher than wide; usually two plates on the muzzle behind the 



nasals, the rest of the head covered with small scales; 6—8 rows 



between supraoculars; 3-5 rows between suboculars and labials; 



^* There has been disagreement as to whether the Linurean name durissus 

 belongs to this or to the South American species. Mr. Boulenger adopts it 

 for this species and uses terrifieus Laur. for the South American. To me 

 the case appears otherwise. Linnajus' scanty description does not sufficiently 

 indicate either, b;it examination of his references, to determine the basis of 

 his species, shows that Ssba's p'ates best indirate the South American form, 

 and in the text (Seba, II, 99) Mexico is the most northern locality referred 

 to. Linncens' paper in the Anicenitates Academiem, I, 500, and Gronovius 

 both treat of specimens from South America ; while the only North Amer- 

 ican rattlesnake apparently known to Kalm was the most northern of all 

 {Jiorr klus Ij.). It appears then that darissns L. is a compound, not of 

 the South American and the diamond rattlesnakes, but of the Ibrmer and 

 the Northern handed species. But Linn;eus' description, ^^ Albo jlavoque 

 'B(iri>is, maculis rhombeis disco (il/nf!,^^ cannot applj' to the latter; durissus, 

 therefore, should bs restricted to tiie South American form. Laurenti's 

 description of terrifieus is not much nmce ample tlian that of Linnreus, but 

 lie refers his species to Seba's PI. 95, fig. 1, in which the only recognizable 

 detail, t'ae scutellation on the muzzle, most clearly indicates the South 

 American species ; terrifieus Laur. is, therefore, a synonym of durissus L.; 

 durissus Laur. is a compound of Linnivus' description, above quoted, and 

 Catcsby's PI. XLI, A'ol. ii, which is horridus. I am unable to find evidence 

 than any of the>e authors knew of the existence of a rattlesnake in North 

 America other than horridus ; and the la'ge diamond rattlesnake of the 

 Gulf States remauied unrecognized until 1799, when Beauvais applied to it 

 the name adaiiui ntcus. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELriilA. 103 



scales ill 27-20 rows, as in most of the species the first and second 

 rows are faintly keeled or smooth; ventrals 169-178; subcaudals 

 25-32. The largest specimen I have seen, measured 1,910 mm. 

 and came from St. Simon's Island, Ga. It was formerly in pos- 

 session of the Zoological Society. There is little doul)t that the 

 species reaches 2, 200 mm. or more. 



Yellowish gray above, with lozenge-shaped dorsal lilotches 

 sharply defined, blackish, with centres of the l)ody color, and 

 separated by oblique yellow lines crossing each other on the Ijack; 

 on the sides in the triangular open spaces which alternate with the 

 lozenges, there is a black spot; other indistinct markings some- 

 times appear on the sides; posteriorly the colors are somewhat 

 darker and the lozenges take the shape of cross-bauds, which form 

 not very well-defined rings ou the tail, but the colors there are not 

 sharply contrasted; belly yellowish white, clouded with brown 

 toward the sides. There is a wide dark oblique streak from below 

 the eye to the labials, bordered in front and behind by a light one; 

 two light bars from the loreal pit to labials, and another in front 

 of the nostril. 



Hab. — North Carolina and Florida; west to Louisiana and prob- 

 ably eastern Texas. 



Crotalus atrox B. and G. 

 I. c, 5. 

 The western representative of the diamond rattlesnake is very 

 like it in appearance, but may always be distinguished by the 

 absence of the light vertical line in front of the nostril, by the 

 absence of sharply defined angles to the dorsal spots and by the 

 strongly contrasted black half rings on the tail. A rai*e form, 

 known only from southern California, is retained as a subspecies. 



Color grayish or brown; markings distinct, . . 1. C. a. atrox. 

 Color red ; markings not very distinct, . . . 2. C. a. ruber. 



Crotalus atrox atrox B. and G. 



I. c, 5; C. adamanteus a.trox and C. a. sautulatus Cope., I. c, 690, 

 aud Rep. Xat. Mus., 11G4, 1159; C. sciitnlatus and C. confluentus 

 (part) BouL, I. c, III, 575, 576 ; C. atrox Stej., I. c, 436. 



Size rather less than adamanteus, but form and scutellatiou very 

 similar; the supraoculars are sometimes but not always bordered 

 internally by a row of enlarged scales; rows of scales between 

 supraoculars often 4, but sometimes •! or (>; 3-4 scales between 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



suboculars aud labials; scales in 27-25 rows; ventrals 173-187; 

 subcaudals 23-28. Of many specimens the largest I have seen 

 measured 1,670 mm. 



Yellowish or grayish, sometimes quite brown, with a series of 

 dark brown or black dorsal spots, with centres of the body color; 

 the angles of the spots are not sharp as in adamanteus, but are cut 

 off, forming irregular hexagons; the lateral markings are indis- 

 tinct; tail gray or Avhite, with 3-5 dark brown or black half- 

 rings; belly yellowish, more or less clouded on the sides. The 

 oblique streak behind the eye is present, but the light line in front 

 of the nasal is always absent. Some young examples have a nar- 

 row light line across the middle of supraoculars. 



Hab. — Central Texas to Arizona; northern Mexico. 

 Crotalus atrox ruber Cope. 



I. c, 690 ; a confluentiis (part) Boul., I. c, III, 576 ; O. a. ru&er Stvj., 

 I. c, 439 ; G. ruber, Van Den., I. c, 222 ; Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 1167, 



Size smaller than C. a. atrox ; rostral wider; canthus less dis- 

 tinct; head scales small ; 8 rows between supraoculars; 5 between 

 suboculars and labials; 27 rows of scales; ventrals 183-186; 

 subcaudals 22-26. 



Length about 1,300 mm. 



Pale red; dorsal spots darker red; lateral spots and head mark- 

 ings indistinct, although a specimen from San Diego, formerly 

 living in the Zoological Gardens, plainly showed the oblique streak 

 behind the eye; belly yellowish; tail whitish with black cross- 

 bauds. 



Hab. — Southern California. 



A better acquaintance with this rare snake may require that it 

 be given specific rank, especially as Mr. Van Denburg does not 

 include C. a. atrox in his list of (California snakes. 



Crotalus confluentus Say. 



Long's Exp., II, 48 (1823); B. and G., I. c, 8 ; 0. c. confluentus and 

 G. c. puhernlentus Cope, I. r., 696, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1170, 

 1174; G. coti-ffi/entiis (part) Boul., I.e., 111,576; G. confluentus 

 Stej., I. c, 440. 



Body rather slender; rostral higher than wide; no very distinctly 

 enlarged plates behind the nasals; head scales of moderate size, 

 3-6 between supraoculars, 2-4 between suboculars and labials; 

 27-29 rows of scales; ventrals 173-188; subcaudals 23-28. 



Length about 1,400 mm. 




1901.] :SATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Grayish or yellowish brown, with a dorsal series of subquadrate 

 dark brown blotches with rather lighter centres, and soractiraos 

 a yellowish border; the corners are often rounded, and posteriorly 

 the spots become cross-l)ands; two series of smaller alternating 

 blotches on the sides; belly dull yellow; a transverse light line on 

 the centi'e of the supraoculars, which Avidens and sometimes 

 bifurcates internally; in the young this is very distinct and the 

 anterior arm of the bifurcation is continued across the vertex to 

 meet its fellow ; the oblique eye streak begins very constantly at 

 the lower anterior corner of the eye and is bordered by narrow 

 white lines; alight line below loreal pit, and the borders of the 

 rostral are light in the young. 



Examination of the type of C. e. pulvernlentus Cope does not 

 afford any good ground for distinction. 



Hab. — Southern Manitoba to central Texas; west to Idaho and 

 Arizona. 



Crotalus oregonus Holbrook. 



No. Am. Herp., Ill, 21, PI. 3 (1842); C. lucifer and C. oregonus B. and 

 G., I. c, 6, 145; O. a. adamanteus (synonomy), C confluentus lecontii 

 and C. c. lucifer Cope, I. c, 690, 692 ; C. conflaeittiis (part) Boul., 

 I. c, III, 576 ; C. lucifer Stej., I. c, 445, and No. Am. Fauna, No. 7, 

 218 ; Van Den., I. c, 216 ; C. c. lecontei and C. c. lucifer Cope, Kep. 

 Nat. Mus , 1175, 1176. 



Examination of the type of C. oregonus Holb. leaves me with 

 little doubt that it is identical with lucifer B. and G. The speci- 

 men has become much distorted and shriveled during the sixty 

 years since Holbrook examined it, but it shows no important 

 difference in scutellation. There are 6 scales between the supra- 

 oculars; 3 between the suboculars and labials; 25 rows of scales. 

 Holbrook'? plate does not quite correctly render the color pattern; 

 the dark streak behind the eye begins further back than is shown, 

 and really takes origin as in lucifer, posterior to the centre of the 

 eye. The dorsal spots are not as emarginate on the anterior border 

 as many of them are represented in the plate; they are, in fact, 

 sharply angled, giving a superficial resemblance to adamanteus 

 (which can be the only reason why Cope includes it in the syn- 

 onomy of that species) ; but much weight cannot attach to this 

 single point in which the specimen differs from lucifer, for the 

 reason that the epidermis has long since peeled off, leaving the 

 whole pattern accentuated; and the youth of the animal (315 mm. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



long) would also show these lines more sharply defined than they 

 would become later in life. The transverse light line on the supra- 

 oculars is precisely as in lucifer. 



This species comes very near to confluentus, but, on account of 

 the constancy of the slight differences, I am obliged to give it 

 specific rank; the head scales are rather smaller, the rows between 

 supraoculars numbering in six examples 4, 5, 8, 8, 8, 9; between 

 suboculars and labials 2-4; scales in 25-27 rows; ventrals 165- 

 189; subcaudals 18-26. Size about the same as co?i/?ite?iiu.s. The 

 pattern is closely similar, but the dark oblique streak behind the 

 eye always begins posterior to its centre and runs backward directly 

 to the angle of the mouth, not curving downward as sharply as in 

 confluentus; the light lines bordering it are wider; the transverse 

 light line on supraoculars is present; the belly is yellow or green- 

 ish, with the posterior border of each ventral lighter. In some 

 specimens the general color is dark, approaching even to black. 



Hab. — The Pacific coast; California to British Columbia, Idaho 



and northern Nevada and Utah. 



Crotalus horridus L. 



Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 214; C. dunssus B. and G., I. c, 1 ; C. horridus 

 Cope, 7. c, 693, and Eep. Nat. Mus., 1185; Boul., I. c, III, 578 ; Stej. 

 I. c, 426. 



Size smaller and body more slender than in adamanteus ; rostral 

 high; two I'ows of small plates behind nasals; 4-8 scales between 

 supraoculars; 2-4 between suborbitals and labials; usually but one 

 plate on canthus; scales in 23-25 rows (occ. 27); ventrals 165- 

 178; subcaudals 18-25. 



Average specimens are about 900 to 1,000 mm. long, and it is 

 doubtful if the species ever much exceeds 1,400. 



Tlie body color is variable — sulphur yellow, ashy and almost 

 black (one specimen from Alabama was in life a peculiar pale 

 drab), crossed by twenty or more irregular chevron-shaped black 

 bauds; the bauds are sometimes complete, but often broken into 

 angular spots on the sides, but they always have a ragged or zigzag 

 appeai'ance. The tail is black; belly yellow marked with dusky; 

 head dark, without distinct markings. 



Hab. — New England to northern Florida; west to Iowa, Okla- 

 homa and northern Texas. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHIA. 107 



Crotalus tigris Kennicott. 



U.S. Mex. Bound. Siirv. Eept., 14, PI. IV (1859); Cope, I. c, 69.3, 

 and Rep. Nat. Mns , 1181 ; Boul., I. c, III, 580 ; Stej., I. c, 449, and 

 No. Am. Fauna, No. 7, 214 ; Van Den., I. c, 220. 



Body ravlier slender; rostral wider than high ; two rows of small 

 plates on the muzzle; about six rows of scales between supraocu- 

 lars; generally two rows between suboculars and labials; scales in 

 21-23 rows (occ. 25); vcntrals 170-181; subcaudals 19-21. 

 Length about 800 mm. 



Grayish or yellowish, witli a dorsal series of ratlier small dark 

 blotches and an indisticct lateral series; on the posterior two-thirds 

 of the body the spots are replaced by cross-bands; belly whitish or 

 yellow; a dark oblique streak behind the eye. 



Hab. — Arizona, southern Nevada and southern California. 



Crotalus lepidus Kennicott. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1861, 206; Cope, L c, 692, and Rep. Nat. Mus., 

 1191 ; Boul., I. c, 582 ; Stej., /. c, 452. 



Size small; rostral wider than high; eight J^lates on top of 

 muzzle; 3-4 rows between su])raoculars; 2 between suboculars and 

 labials; one nasal, half divided; the upper preocular divided 

 vertically; scales in 23 rows; ventrals 153-169; subcaudals 27- 

 31. Length 600 mm. 



Greenish gray, with about 20 dark brown or black dorsal spots; 

 tail with several dark half-rings; belly whitish clouded with 

 brown; two lai'ge dark spots in contact on the nape; the dark 

 oblique streak behind the eye is sometimes indicated. 



Hab. — Western Texas to central Arizona; northern Mexico. 



Crotalus cerastes Hallowell. 



Proc. Acad. Phila., 1854, 05 ; Cope, I. c, 694. and Rep. Nat. Mus., 1196 ; 

 Boul., L c. III, 583; Stej., I. c, 450, and No. Am. Fauna, No. 7, 

 216; Van Den., I. c , 222. 



Size small; rostral as wide as high; head scales small, 5-7 be- 

 tween supraoculars; 2 between suboculars and labials; one nasal; 

 supraoculars elevated into a horn-like projection; scales in 21 

 rows; ventrals 134-146; subcaudals 10-21. Length about 

 600 mm. 



Yellowish, with a dorsal series of small brown blotches, and 

 several indistinct series of smaller ones on the sides; belly yellow- 

 ish; a narrow oblique streak behind the eye. 



Hab.— ?Ari zona, southern Nevada, Utah and California. 




108 PIlOCEKblXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juu., 



Crotalus pricei Van Denburg. 



Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 1895, 8oG ; Cope, Rep. Nat. Mus., 113t. 



This species is known from five small specimens in the museum 

 of the Leland Stanford University, California. 



From Mr. Van Denburg's description it appears to be charac- 

 terized by a rostral slightly higher than wide; enlarged ])lates on 

 the muz/le; one to three rows between supraoculars; one row 

 between suboculars and labials; and the presence of but nine 

 upper labials, the number in other species being 12-18; 21 rows 

 of scales; ventrals 153-159; subcaudals 21-27. Length to rattle 

 447 mm. (tail 41). 



Olive gray, thickly covered with small brown dots. Fifty-four 

 to sixty small brown blotches arranged in two series on the back, 

 somewhat alternating anteriorly, but forming cross-bands behind; 

 seven brown cross-bands on the tail; two or three rows of smaller 

 alternating brown spots on the sides; belly dark slate, ends of the 

 ventrals and outer row of scales whitish; a dark brown oblique 

 streak behind the eye; two small brown spots on the occiput; 

 throat yellow tinged with vinaceous. 



The peculiar characters of these specimens are'quite sufficient, as 

 far as they are now known, to entitle them to recognition. 



Hab. — Huachucha Mountains, Arizona. 



Crotalus mitchelli Cope. 



Proc. Acnd. Phila., 1^61, 293; C. mitcJieUii and C. pyrr1iusCo\)e, I. c., 

 694 ; C. rrdteheUi Bon]., I. c. III, 580; C. mitchellii Coy)&, Rep. Nat. 

 Mus., 1193 ; G. m. luUchelH and 0. m. pi/7')'/ius Ste]., I. c, 454, 456; 

 C mitc/ulUYan Den., I. c, 224. 



Differs from all others of the genus in having the rostral sepa- 

 rated from the anterior nasal by small granular scales; canthus not 

 sharp and without large plates; 6-7 scales between supraoculars; 

 3 rows between suboculars aud labials; preocular sometimes 

 divided; 23-25 rows of scales; ventrals 178-198; subcaudals 26. 



Length about 1,100 mm. 



Ordinary specimens are grayish yellow, with brown punctulations 

 on the back, which are collected into about forty transversely angu- 

 lar spots, which form cross-bands on the posterior fourth of the body; 

 tail light with distinct black half-rings; an indistinct brown stx-eak 

 behind the eye, with a light one in front of it. Occasional exam- 

 ples are more or less red of varying shades; upon such specimens 

 C. pyrrhus Cope was founded. 



Hab. — Arizona and southern California. 




190].] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELl'IIIA, 



109 



Serial Index. 



Page 



1. Glauconia Grav 13 



1. dulcis (B.' and G.) 13 



2. humilis (B. andG.).. . 14 



2. Licbauura Cope 14 



1. roseofusca Cope 14 



3. Charina Gray 15 



1. botta) (Blaiu.) 15 



2. bracbyops Cope 15 



4. Eutienia B. and G 18 



1. saiirita (L.) 19 



2. sackeni Keim 20 



3. proxima (Say) 20 



4. radix B. and G 20 



5. megalops Kenn 21 



mega lops Kenn 21 



6. elegans B. and G 22 



elegans B. and G. . . . 23 



vagrans B. and G . . . . 23 



biscutata Cope 23 



marciana B. and G . . 24 



coucbi Kenn 24 



7. eqiies Reuss 25 



8. sirtalis (L.) 25 



ordlnata(L.) 26 



sirtalis (L.) 26 



parietalis (Say) 28 



pickeringi B. and G . 29 



leptocephalaB.andG. 30 



9. multimaculata Cope... 3L 

 10. rufopunctata Cope .... 31 



o. Tropidonotus Kuhl 32 



1. leberis (L.) 32 



2. grabami (B. and G. ) . . . 33 



3. rigidus (Say) 33 



4. clarkii (B. andG.) 33 



5. compressicaudus 



(Kenn.) 34 

 compressicaudus 



(Kenn. ) 34 



ustus Cope 35 



6. sipedon (L. ) 35 



fasciatus (L.) 36 



sipedon (L.)., 37 



traiisversus Hall 37 



7. rbombifer Hall 33 



8. cyclopium Dum. and 



Bib. 38 



9. taxispilotus Holb 39 



6. Seminatrix Cope 39 



1. pyg;va Cope 39 



7. Helicops Wagl 40 



1. alleni Garm 10 



Page 



8. Storeria B. and G 41 



1. deka.vi (Holb.) 41 



2. occipitomaculata 



(Storer) 42 



9. Clonopbis Cope 42 



1. kirtlandi (Kenn.) 42 



10. Tropidoclonium Cope 42 



1. lineatum (Hall.) 43 



11. Ampbiardis Cope 43 



1. inoroatus (Garm.) .... 43 



12. Haldea B. and G 43 



1. striatula (L.) 44 



13. Spilotes Wagl 44 



1. corais ( Boie) 44 



couperi (Holb.) 44 



14. Coluber L 45 



1. guttatus L 16 



2. quadrivittatus Holb . . 46 



3. obsoletus Say 47 



obsoletus Say 47 



lindheimeri 



(B. andG.) 48 



confinis (B. and G.) . 49 



4. emoryi (B. and G. ) . . . . 50 



5. vulpious (B. and (.}.).. 50 



15. Rbinecbis Micba 51 



1. elegans (Kenn.) 51 



16. Pityopbis Holb 52 



1. catenifer (Blain.) 52 



catenifer (Blain) .... 53 



belloua B. and G. . . . 54 



sayi (Scbl.) 55 



2. melanoleucus (Daud.) . 55 



17. Zamenis Wagl 56 



1. constrictor (L.) 58 



constrictor (L. ) 58 



flaviventris (Say) ... 58 



2. flagellum (Sbaw) 59 



flagellum (Sbaw) ... 59 



frenatus (Stej.) 60 



piceus Cope 61 



3. lateralis (Hall.) 61 



4. tajniatns (Hall.) 62 



ornatus ( B. and G. ) . 62 



tffiuiatus (Hall.) 62 



18. Salvadora B. and G 63 



1. grabami B. and G 63 



19. Pbyllorhyncbus Stej 64 



1. browni Stej 64 



2 decurtatus Cope 64 



20. Cyclopbis Guntb 65 



1. ajstivus (L.) 65 




110 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Page 



21. Liopeltis Cope C6 



1. vernalis (Harl.) 66 



23. Contia B. and G (id 



1. taylori Boul 07 



2. episcopa (Kenu.) 07 



episcopa (Kenn.) ... ()7 



'isozonaCope (17 



3. occipitale (Hall.) 68 



4. mitis B. and G 68 



23. Diadophis B. and (r 68 



1. punctatus ( L. ) 69 



2. amabilis B. and G 70 



3. regalis B. and G 70 



24. Ophibolus B. and G 70 



1. doliatus (L.) 71 



triangiilus (Daud.) . 72 



clericus B. and G . . . . 72 



doliatus (L.) 73 



coccineiis (Scbl.) ... 74 



gentili-s B. and G. . . . 75 



2. getulus (L.) 76 



•sayi (Holb.) 76 



getulus (L. ) 77 



boylii B. and G 78 



californiiB (Blain.).. 78 



3. zonatus (Blain.) 79 



4. rhombomaculatus 



(Holb.) 79 



5. calligaster (Harl.) 80 



25. Stilosoma A. Brown 80 



1. extenuatuni A. Brown . 81 



26. Carphopbis Gerv 81 



1. amoenus (Say) 81 



27. Faraneia Gray 82 



1. abacura (Holb.) 82 



28. Abastor (iray 82 



1. erytbrogrammus 



(Daud.). 83 



29. Virginia B. and G 83 



1. valerite B. and G 83 



2. elegans Kenn 83 



30. Ficimia Gray 84 



1. cana (Cope) 84 



31. Chilomeniscus Cope 84 



1. epbippieus Cope 85 



2. cinctus Cope 85 



Page 



32. Cemopbora Cope 85 



I. coccinea (Blum.) 8) 



33. Rbinocbilus B. and G 86 



1. lecontii B. and G 86 



34. Hypsiglena Cope 87 



1. ochrorbyncha Cope. . . . 87 



35. Rhadinea Cope 87 



1. flavilata Cope. 88 



36. Heterodon Latr 88 



1. platyrbinus Latr 89 



2. simus (L.) 90 



3. nasicus B. and G 90 



37. Trimorphodon Cope 91 



1 . lyropbanes Cope 91 



38. SibonFitz 91 



1. septentrionalis (Kenn.) 91 



39. Erythrolamprus Wagl 92 



1. imperialis Baird 92 



40. Tantilla B. and G 92 



1. coronala B. and G 93 



2. eiseni Stej 93 



3. nigriceps Kenn 93 



4. gracilis B. and G 94 



41. Flaps Schu 94 



1. fulvius (L.) 95 



2. euryxantbus Kenn .... 95 



42. Ancistrodon Beauv 96 



1. piscivorus (Lacep.) . ... 96 



2. contortrix (L.) 97 



43. Sistrurus Garm 97 



1. catenatus (Rafiu.) .... 98 



catenatus (Rafin.).. . 99 

 consors (B. and G.). 99 



2. miliarius (L.) 100 



44. CrotalusL 100 



1. molossus B. and G 101 



2. adamanteus Beauv 102 



3. atrox B. and G 103 



atrox B. and G 103 



ruber Cope 104 



4. confluentus Saj' 104 



5. oregonus Holb 105 



6. borridus L 106 



7. tigris Kenn 107 



8. lepidus Kenn 107 



9. cerastes Hall 107 



10. pricei Van Den 108 



11. initcbelli Cope 108 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'UILADELPIIIA. Ill 



CRUSTACEA OF THE CRETACEOUS FORMATION OF NEW JERSEY. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



From the earliest exploitation of the Cretaceous beds of New- 

 Jersey, remains of Crustacea have been encountered by various 

 observers, most of whom contented themselves with merely men- 

 tioning the occurrence of crabs' claws. These remains have until 

 now escaped scientific description. 



The first notice ot crustacean fossils from the State, so far as I 

 know, is contained in Vol. I, part 2, pp. 195-198, of the Annals 

 of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York (1824), where Dr. 

 J. Van Rensselaer gives a brief account and figures of four sup- 

 posed species from " the triangular peninsula comprised between 

 the ocean and the Delaware and Raritan rivers." The species are 

 not named, and from the information given cannot be identified with 

 certainty, but Nos. 1 and 3 may be Callianassa morioni, and No. 

 4 is possibly C. conradi. 



Dr. S. G. Morton, in the American Journal of Science and Arts, 

 XVII, No. 2, p. 287 (1830), notices Van Rensselaer's work, and 

 mentions the finding of Adacus remains in Delaware; paraphras- 

 ing his remarks in the Synopsis of Organic Remains of the Creta- 

 ceous Group of the U. S., p. 74 (1834). 



The collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia contains many specimens from the deep cut of the Chesapeake 

 and Delaware canal, Delaware, and from Monmouth and Burling- 

 ton counties, N. J., together with numbers without locality further 

 than " Cretaceous, New Jersey." During the last few years various 

 members of the Academy have added specimens from Lenola, N. 

 J., a locality unknown to the earlier collectors of Cretaceous fossils. 



It is noteworthy that all the specimens thus far seen are from 

 the * ' Lower Marl ' ' beds ; none have come to my notice from the 

 Middle or Upper Marls. 



I am indebted to Mr. Charles W. Johnson, Curator of the 

 Wagner Free Institute of Science, for various references and the 

 use of material in the museum in Jiis charge, including specimens 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



collected by William Wagner, Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., and 

 himself. 



CALLIANASSA Leach. 



The glaucouitic sands of the New Jersey Cretaceous are ill- 

 adapted for the preservation of delicate structures, and therefore 

 only the hard large claws of these soft-bodied Macrura are found. 

 Most of the species descril)ed from the Cretaceous, Eocene and 

 Miocene of Europe are likewise based upon chelre. 



In the United States one Eocene species has been described, C. 

 ulrichi White, ^ from specimens collected by Mr. E. 0. Ulrich near 

 Little Rock, Ark., in a bed at first supposed to be Cretaceous. The 

 specimens before me were collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson at 

 Mabelvale, Ark. The propodite in this species is short and squar- 

 ish, much as in C. conradi ; the lower border is somewhat crenate, 

 and well-preserved specimens show a tuberculate tract on each side 

 behind the commissure between the fingers. The hand is com- 

 pressed, as in C. conradi. 



In Europe the fossil species from Mesozoic and Tertiary strata 

 are numerous and an excellent account of them has been given by 

 Milne-Edwards,* while notices and descriptions of various species 

 occur in the works of many other authors. The older species are 

 very similar to living forms, weak and soft-bodied burrowers in 

 the sand, and yet the genus has outlived most of its companions 

 on the shores of the Cretaceous seas. There is nothing like being 

 adapted to your circumstances. 



Our species apparently belong to that division of the genus in 

 which the fingers are of equal length, but they are clearly distinct 

 from any described European form. 



Callianassa mortoni n. sp. PI. I, figs. 1-7. 



Propodite (figs. 1-4) rhombic, its breadth about two-thirds the 

 length, the outer face (fig. 1) very convex, the greatest convexity 

 posterior and nearer the upper side. Surface nearly smooth, usually 

 showing a series of four distant punctures extending backward 

 from the root of the fixed finger, and two on the other or more 



' C. A. White, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., Ill, 1830, p. 161 ; IV, 1831, p. 

 137, PI. 1, figs. 10, 11 (left propodite); G. H. Harris, Ann. Rep. Qeol. 

 Surv. Arkansas, II, 1892, p. 30, PI. 1, fig. 2a, 2b (left hand). 



* Anriales des Sciences NaturelUs, 4 sen, XIV, ZojL, p. 301 (1860); a 

 supplement in Nouv. Arch, du Mas., 1870, Vol. VI. 




1901,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



convex side; the posterior mar gin abruptly falling near the joint, a 

 prominence bearing a group of small tubercles at the summit before 

 the deflection. Inner surface or palm (fig, 2) much less convex, 

 becoming concave near the lateral margins, nearly smooth, the 

 anterior margin slightly excavated between the root of the fixed 

 finger and the dactyJopodite, and bordered there with a short row 

 of small tubercles. On the median portion of the palm there are 

 two punctures, marking it off into thirds longitudinally. Lateral 

 margins of the propodite acute, closely, finely and regularly crenu- 

 late; the lower margin S'traight, with a row of punctures along the 

 inner side but extremely near the edge, and another less close to 

 the edge outwardly; upper margin deeply curved down posteriorly, 

 produced into a deflexed lobe, and similarly margined Avith spaced 

 punctures. Fixed finger about one-third the total length of the 

 whole propodite, curved at the tip, finely crenate along the grasp- 

 ing margin when unworn, and with a blunt median tooth. 



Dactylopodite with two contiguous crenulate carinte along its 

 outer edge, 



Carpopodite (PI. I, figs 5, 6) somewhat shorter than the palmar 

 surface of the propodite, equally convex inside and out, turgid 

 anteriorly, its outer face with an oblique groove bordered with 

 small tubercles near the distal lower angle. Posterior upper angle 

 produced backward in a rather slender process, 



Meropodite (PI, I, fig, 7) subtriangular in section, the upper 

 keel strongly arched, lower keel nearly straight and more strongly 

 serrate, the middle of the very convex outer surface granulose, 

 with two rounded tubercles at the anterior extremity; the opposite 

 or inner face nearly flat. In all specimens preserved with the 

 member.'? in place, the meropodite is flexed at a right angle with 

 the carpopodite. 



Measurements of propodite, in millimeters. 



Length. Length exdmivs Width in the fj,i,j,,,,,,^ 



^ of jinger. middle. 



(.') — 29 19 9.5 



(6) 25 18 11 6 



The left chela of another specimen measures: Total length of 

 propodite 27, palmar surface (without finger) 20 mm.; width in 

 middle 13 mm.; greatest length of car])opodite, measured obliquely 

 20, or from middle of distal to middle of proximal margin 




114 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



14 mm.; width in middle 12 mm.; length of meropodite 13 mm. 

 (Ko. 10,095 "Wagner Free Institute of Science, collected at Cross- 

 wicks, N. J., by Dr. Thomas H, ^Montgomery, Jr.). 



I.ower ]Marl beds of New Jersey, Lenola (C. W. Johnson, 

 Louis Woolman, H, C. Borden); Crosswicks (Dr. Thomas H. 

 Montgomery, Jr.); Tinton Falls, Monmouth county (Coll. A. N. 

 S. ). Also Delaware, deep cut of the Delaware and Chesapeake 

 canal (Coll. A. N. S.). Types in Coll. A. N. S. 



What Callianassa faujasi is in Europe to the Ma^strichtien, C. 

 mortonl is on this side of the Atlantic to the " Lower Marl " beds. 

 It is an abundant species, known by remains of over one hundred 

 individuals, chiefly the propodites only, though sometimes the 

 meropodite, carpopodite and propodite are preserved in place; 

 when this is the case, it is usually due to their being more 

 or less imbedded in hard nodules. The abrupt deflection of the 

 hind margin of the more convex face of the propodite, and the 

 downward bend, posteriorly, of its uj^per margin (as in fig. 3) 

 are characteristic of the species. 



Both chelie of a Lenola individual preserved in one nodule show 

 the right claw to be somewhat the larger. Otherwise the two 

 -claws seem to be counterparts. I can find no other difference. 



The largest specimens show a shallow, vermiculate wrinkling of 

 the surface, but the smaller are almost smooth to the eye or touch. 

 The crenulation of the margins becomes stronger with age, and is 

 'Occasionally lost or obscured by chipping of the edges. 



It is named for Samuel George Morton, one of the earliest 

 explorers of the American Cretaceous. 

 Callianassa conradi n. sj). ri. I, figs. 8, 9, lo. 



Propodite rhombic, its length (without finger) not much exceed- 

 ing the width, somewhat more convex on the outer than on the 

 inner face, the posterior margin neither abruptly nor deeply dejiexed. 

 Surface smoothish, with some small tubercles on each side of 

 the slight excavations on both sides .of the hand near the com- 

 missure between the bases of the tingers; the acute lateral edges 

 <;renulated, as in C. moHoni, l)ut the lower edge is not deflexed 

 posteriorly as in that species. Fixed finger triangular in section, 

 the angles crenulated, the flat grasping face with a short smooth 

 rib near the base, which joins the keel along the outer angle of the 

 finger. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Measurements of propodife. — Length about 30 mm.; exclusive 

 of finger 18.5; width 1(5.5; thickness 7.6 mm. 



Crosswicks and Monmouth county, N. J., with C. mortonl 

 (Coll. A. K S.). 



In a few specimens the dactylopodite remains as a short stump 

 only. iSTo carpopodite or other part is known. Thirteen propo- 

 dites, probably belonging to as many individuals, are before me, 

 the most perfect being one of two in the collection of the Wagner 

 Free Institute of Science. 



The claw of C. conradi differs from that of C. mortoni in being 

 much shorter and broader; more evenly convex on the two sides, 

 the posterior margin of the outer side and the keel along the upper 

 edge are not abruptly deflexed behind; the fixed finger of the propo- 

 dite of C. conradi has no median tooth on its grasping face, which is 

 flat with a short smooth ridge and bounded by two crenulate 

 angles, while in C. mortoni there is a median tooth, a crenulate 

 ridge on the face, and no crenate angle along the lower inner part 

 of the finger. 



The name is in honor of Timothy Abbott Conrad, the al)lest 

 of the early expositors of the Cretaceous and Tertiary faunas of 

 the United States. 



Figured type in collection of the "Wagner Free Institute of 

 Science, No. 5,478 W. 



HOPLOPARIA McCov. 

 The following species are referred to this genus with due reserve, 

 as until the cephalothorax is known their exact position in the 

 Astacoid series must remain doubtful. The specific characters of 

 the fossils, however, may be readily appreciated ; and the definition 

 of the species may call attention to the matter and lead someone to 

 search for the missing parts. 



Hoploparia gabbi n. sp. PL I, figs. 11, 12, 13, 14. 



Right propodite robust, evenly convex on both '"sides, but 

 slightly more convex above than below, the surface slightly rough- 

 ened everywhere by small flattened, separated, scale-like asperities; 

 lower margin bluntly angular and marked by a slight groove ; upper 

 margin narrowly rounded, bearing a couple of short conic spines, 

 inserted slightly below the edge and directed downward and for- 

 ward; and on each side there is a rounded tubercle at the base of 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.,. 



the dacty]oi)odite. Fixed finger rather slender, with a series of 

 coarse tubercles (worn flat) along its grasping edge. 



Dactylopodite armed with a short conic spine near its base 

 (continuing the row of similar spines on the upper margin of the 

 propodite), its grasping face with a series of coarse tubercles, 

 worn flat. 



Carpopodite (?) irregularly cylindrical, gibl)0U3, a little com- 

 pressed and faintly grooved along the outer side, bearing a series 

 of several short spines along the inner. 



Abdominal somites (PI. I, figs. 13, 14) with highly arched ter- 

 gum, the surface punctate. 



Lower Marl beds, Lenola, N. J. (C. AV. Johnson, Uselma C, 

 Smith); Monmouth county (William Cleburne). Also deep cut 

 of the Delaware and Chesapeake canal. 



Cotypes are No. 527 Coll. A. N. S. and 5,941 Coll. Wagner 

 Institute, from Lenola, N. J. 



This species is based upon a right hand and group of four 

 abdominal somites in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, and a right hand and carpopodite (?) 

 in that of the Wagner Free Institute. The fixed finger is broken 

 in both specimens, and the proximal portion of the hand is wanting. 

 In the Wagner Institute specimen the base of the dactylopodite 

 remains. 



A much smaller propodite from Monmouth county, N. J., shows 

 a series of four short spines along the upper margin; but perhaps 

 this specimen belongs to an alliea but distinct species, as it is much 

 less convex inside than the larger claws. In the large specimens 

 from Lenola only the anterior two spines remain, as described 

 above, owing to the loss of the posterior portion of the hand. 



On account of the mutilated condition of the remains, measure- 

 ments cannot readily be given; but an Astacoid somewhat larger 

 than the common Eastern crayfish is indicated. The figures are 

 of the natural size. The high arch of the abdomen may be parti v 

 due to lateral compression. Until further remains come to light, 

 and especially the cephalot borax, the generic position of the species 

 will be uncertain. It is named in honor of William M. Gabb. 

 Hoploparia gladiator n. sp. PI. I, figs. 15, 16. 



Propodite long and narrow, parallel sided, its thickness more 

 than half the width, about equally' convex on the two sides, 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



smootliish, showing scattered punctures and under a lens a very 

 fine punctulation ; on both sides of the hand a row of three or four 

 small pointed tubercles runs lengthwise along the median con- 

 vexity; lower edge bluntly biangular. Fixed finger nearly double 

 the width of the dactylopodite, pyriform in section, with a row of 

 tubercles along the grasping edge. Dactylopodite oval in section, 

 also bearing pointed tubercles opposed to those on the fixed finger. 



Length of propodite as broken 35 mm.; width 11.5, thickness 

 7 mm. 



Lower INIarl beds, Lenola, X. J. (Charles W. Johnson). Deep 

 cut of the Chesapeake and Delaware canal (Coll. A. N. S. P.). 



Types are No. 10,120 Coll. Wagner Free Institute of Science, 

 and consist of an imperfect propodite with broken dactylopodite 

 in place, a fragment of the fixed finger, apparently of the same 

 specimen, and a fragment of another hand of larger size, width 

 14, thickness 9 mm. They were exposed Iiy breaking hard nodules 

 which occur in the clay at Lenola. Another broken propodite is 

 in the collection of the Academy from the deep cut of the Chesa- 

 peake and Delaware canal, in Delaware. 



The species is readily recognizable by the long, narrow shape of 

 the hand and the minute punctulation of the surface, the biangu- 

 late lower edge of the fixed finger and hand, etc. It can hardly 

 be the smaller chela of H. gahbl on account of the different 

 surface-sculpture, etc. 



BRACHYURA (?) 



Remains of three crustaceans, probably short-tailed crabs, are 

 contained in the collection of the Academy, but while specifically 

 characteristic by their peculiar sculpture, they are too fragmentary 

 to admit of generic reference, at least from my knowledge of the 

 group. 



One fragment shows keels on a smooth surface, somewhat like 

 the hand of CalUnectes, though it is probably something very 

 different. 



Another (PI. I, fig. 17) seems to be the finger of some very 

 long-handed form. It has three rows of long tubercles along the 

 grasping (?) face, three of smaller ones along the rounded and 

 narrower outer margin, while a furrow runs along each side. This 

 and the preceding are from Monmouth county, N. J., but other 




118 PROCEEDIXOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



fragments, probably referable to the long-fingered crab, are in tbe 

 collection from Crosswicks, X. J. 



Still other fragments (PI. I, fig. 18) are strongly spinose. I 

 take that figured to be a portion of a hand from which the fixed 

 finger has been broken ofi' at the position marked f. The opposite 

 side bristles with three irregular rows of short spines, Avhile smaller 

 ones are scattered over the palm. The socket for the dactylo- 

 podite is very large. 



These fragments are so strongly marked and easily recognizable 

 specifically that I call the species Cancer (^f) whitfieldl ; the generic 

 reference being admittedly merely provisional and to call attention 

 to the necessity of examining further material; for it would be a 

 Cancer only in the Linurean limits of that genus. These fossils 

 are from Burlingtor county, N. J. The name is for Prof. R. P. 

 Whitfield, whose volumes upon the paleontology of New Jersey 

 have been of great use to workers in this field. 



There are also some densely granulose remains of portions of 

 limbs, possibly referable to Hoploparia or Adaeodes, in the collec- 

 tion of the Wagner Institute from Lenola, N. J. ; but they are too 

 imperfect to afford data of value at present. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. 



Fig. 1. Callianassa mortord. Right propodite, outside. 2. Right 

 propodite, inside; the fingers broken off. 3. Right 

 propodite, profile from above. 4. Right propodite, 

 posterior view. 5. Right carpopodite, inside. 6. Right 

 carpopodite, outside. 7. Left meroi^odite, outside 

 (No. 4,059 W, Coll. Wagner Inst.). 



Fig, 8. Calliana.%^a conradi. Left propodite, inner face (No. 

 5,478 W, Coll. Wagner Inst.). 9. Left propodite, 

 posterior view. 10. Left propodite, profile. 



Fig. 11. Hoploparia gabbi. Left propodite, outer face ; the dac- 

 tylopodite sujiplied from another specimen. 12. Left 

 propodite, profile. 13. Portions of four abdominal 

 somites. 14. Section of anterior end of same. 



Fig. 15. Hoploparia gladiator. Outlines of broken fingers of the 

 large fragment (fig. 16) (No. 10,120 Coll. Wagner 

 Inst.). 16. Propodite, with dactylopodite. 



Fig. 17. Fragment of a finger (?), species unknown. 



Fig. 18. Cancer (.^) ivhiifieldi. Fragment of a propodite. 



Figs. 1-4, 11-14, 17, 18 are from specimens in the collection 

 of the Academy. Figs. 5-10, 15, 16 are from specimens in the 

 collection of the Wagner Free Institute of Science. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11£> 



ON SOME POINTS IN THE PHYLOGENY OF THE PRIMATES. 

 BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



The suggestions liere offered, as to the possible orieriu of certairt 

 structural resemblances noted between anthropomorpha and one of 

 the family groups of existing lemurs, have resulted as a by- 

 product from a study of the interrelations of the Primates, under- 

 taken with a different purpose; they are put forth simply as a con- 

 tribution to the sum total of possibilities which, upon final sifting, 

 shall some day determine the exact degree and manner of the rela- 

 tionship between men, apes and monkeys, and not in any sense as a 

 demonstrated conclusion — for the reaching of which more de- 

 tailed knowledge of the early Tertiary mammals is required. 



In accounting for the later stages in the phylogeny of man^ 

 three hypotheses are to be considered. 



The view of Darwin,^ now held by a majority of systematists,. 

 is that the anthropomorpha (here used to include man and the 

 higher apes) branched ofl from the main stem of monkeys after 

 its divergence from the lemurs. 



In 1860, Gratiolet' was led by a study of brain chai'acters aloue^ 

 to the conclusion that each genus of anthropoid apes Avas descended 

 from an existing genus of monkeys; thus he derived Gorilla from 

 Cynocephalus ; Anthropopithecus from Macacus; Simia and Hylo- 

 bates from Semnopitheeu.<. This view has received little support 

 and the facts now known show its complete untenability. 



Lastly, Prof. E. D. Cope^ has suggested a common origin for the 

 anthropomorpha directly from the Eocene lemuroids, indepen- 

 dently of the line by which the monkeys came from the same 

 stock, being led to this conclusion by a study of the tendency in 

 certain races of men to the production of tritubercular upper 

 molars, which tendency he interprets as reversion, or retrogressive 



^ Descent of Man, Chapter VI. 

 ^ ComptesBendus, 1860, p. 801, 



^Journal of Morphology, 1888, p. 21, and Primary Factors of Organic 

 Evolution, p. 154 (1896).' 




120 PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



evolution toward an ancestral lerauroid tritubercular dentition. It 

 appears to me that this observation of Cope's does not stand alone, 

 and my })resent purpose is to indicate certain homologies which 

 appear to fall into line with it. 



In estimating the degree of relationship between men and apes, 

 on the one hand, and eatarrhine monkeys on the other, and that 

 borne by each series to their ancestral group, two sets of homolo- 

 gies are of especial value — those which the anthropomorpha share 

 with gome, at least, among lemurs (in which eatarrhine monkeys 

 have no part), and those connecting catarrhines with lemurs, which 

 are, conversely, absent from anthropomorpha. 



Some correspondences of much weight are disclosed by the teeth 

 and the vertebral column; these will be briefly recapitulated with- 

 out extended description of details, which have already been given 

 in each case by recognized authorities, although it does not appear 

 that due weight has been given to their bearing upon the present 

 question. It may be added that almost all have been verified by 

 my own observations. 



In anthropomorpha there is an oblique ridge crossing the crowns 

 of the upper molars from jt»rofocone io meiacone.* Tliis is present 

 with great uniformity in the first and second human molars, as 

 well as in the third when it presents the quad I'i tubercular form, 

 and in examination of a considerable number of skulls belonging 

 to all four genera of anthropoids, I have found it in every case 

 where the crowns were sufficiently unworn to permit its disclosure. 

 Topinard lays much stress upon this crest and expresses the opinion 

 that it represents the posterior border of the primitive three-cusped 

 tooth," from which the four-cusped has been evolved by addition of 

 a postero-internal cusp (hypocone). He states, further,* that the 

 crest is never absent in platyrrhiue monkeys — an assertion which 

 appears to me too sweeping, but traces of it are certainly found in 

 Ateles and Alouatta, and perhaps irregularly in other genera. It 

 is not found in any eatarrhine monkey, but reappears in the 

 quadritubercular lemurs of the family Nydicchidce,'^ comprising 



*Owen, Odordografliy, PI. 116, fig. 6, and Comp. Anat., Ill, p. 320 ; 

 Huxley, Anat. Vert., pp. 390, 396, 412 (direction of ridge reversed), and 

 Proc. Zool. Soc. of London, 1864, p. 314 et scq.; Mivart, P. Z. S., 1864, 

 p. 611 et seq.; Topinard, L'Anthrojiologie, 1892, p. 641 et seq. 



* ?. c, p. 650. 



^l.c, p. 683. 



'Huxley, I. c, pp. 322-324; ]\Iivart, I. c, p. 631 ; Topiuard, I. c, p. 691. 




190].] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Loris, Nyctlcebus, Perodidicus and Ardocehis, aud irregularly ia 

 Microcebus^ and Galago.^ Of especial significance is the fact that 

 some of the more recenth^ described Eocene Primates^'' present both 

 a small fourth cusp and traces of the oblique ridge on the first and 

 second upper molars. In all catarrhine monkeys both upper and 

 lower molars are quadricuspid, with strong transverse ridges con- 

 necting the opposite cusps." This arrangement is not found in 

 antliropomorpha, but is shown lioth above and below in Indris,^^ 

 w hiJe Loris and Ardocebus show it in the lower jaw. 



Mr. Mivart" directs attention to the fact that in man the spinous 

 process of the third cervical vertebra is short and bifurcated ; in 

 anthropoids it is elongated and simple, while in monkeys generally 

 it is short and simple, as is the case in lemurs excepting in the 

 Ntjdicebidce., among which in Nydlcebus it is quite human, while 

 in Perodidicus and Ardocebus it is anthropoid. Similar corre- 

 spondences are exhibited by other parts of the spinal column. In 

 anthropomorpha the spinous processes of the lumbar and the last, 

 or last two, dorsal vertebra? are directed backward, the transverse 

 processes are turned slightly backward (dorsally), and the ana- 

 pophyses and metapophyses are few in number and feebly devel- 

 oped. In catarrhine monkeys the corresponding spinous processes 

 are bent forward, so as to make a distinct point of convergence 

 about the next to the last dorsal with those of the anterior verte- 

 brae, which are inclined strongly in the opposite direction; the 

 transverse processes are horizontal or more usually slightly bent 

 forward (ventrally), and the anapophyses and metapophyses are 

 strongly developed and begin usually in advance of the seventh 

 dorsal, extending posteriorly through the whole of the lumbar 

 vertebriK?. 



In all these respects lemurs agree with monkeys, excepting again 

 the Nydicebidce, where the disposition is generally as in anthro- 

 pomorpha. 



^Mivart, I c, p. 621. 



'Huxley, I. c, p. 325, fig. 5; Mivart, I. c, p. 625; Topinard, I. c, p. 

 692. 



'"H. F. Osborn, Bi/U. Am. Mus. of Nat. Hist., 1895, p. 19, fig. 4, and 

 Intt'/r national Dental Journal, July, 1895, PI. AA, fig. 10. 



" Huxley, Anat. Vert., p. 401 ; Topiuard, I. c, p. 679. 



'2 Huxley, P. Z. S., 1864, p. 326 ; Topinard, I. c, fig. 8, T. 



''P. Z. S., 1865, p. 550. 



"Mivart, P. Z. S., 1865. p. 545 et xeq. 




122 rilOCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The sacrum in anthropoinorpha is composed of five or six 

 coalesced vertebra; in monkeys the normal number is two or three, 

 and a like number is shown by lemurs, except Indris, which ha.'i 

 four, and Perodlctlcus and Arctocebus, each of which has five.'* 



Now if we attempt, from Gratiolet's standpoint, to account for 

 the presence in anthropoids of so many of the above characters aa 

 their supposed ancestors do not possess, inheritance being excluded 

 by the very terms of the hypothesis, we are driven to analogous 

 variation as the only process with which we have any acquaintance 

 which might be held competent to explain them. 



But, so far from there being any good reason to assume that 

 analogous variation has been a frequent method in nature, there 

 is, on the contraiy, warrant for an a priori belief that the mere 

 mathematical chances against the occurrence of any single case of 

 it are very great ; so that where, as in the present circumstances, 

 seven cases of the independent development of almost exactly simi- 

 lar characters must have taken place in each of four sfenera (to say 

 nothing of man, who is not provided for by the hypothesis), the 

 improbability becomes so enonnous as to remove it from rational 

 consideration.'^ 



The theories of Darwin and of Cope remain to be examined, and 

 it may be said at once that no one of the homologies which have 

 been noted is excluded by either of them, but there is, in my belief, 

 a wide difference in their relative probability ; that of Cope being 

 so far the most simple, that it is logically indicated for our accept- 

 ance. 



Darwin's hypothesis requires us either to suppose that there has 

 been an extensive and complicated process of preservation of cer- 

 tain structures and suppression of others, in which the family 

 groups now differ, or to take refuge again in analogous variation. 

 Both are rendered difficult of acceptance by the reflection that of the 

 characters here advanced few, if any, can be believed to have been 

 adaptive. It is unsafe to dogmatically assert that a given structure 



^^Mivart, P. Z. -S'., 1805, p. 500. 



*® Furthermore, the same principle must he invoked to account for the 

 absence of the cusp-hearing heel on m^, possessed by each of the supposed 

 ancestral genera ; for the presence of three external [cusps on the lower 

 molars ; the pre.«ence of a vermiform appendix ; the independent origin of 

 the left common carotid froTu the arch of the aorta, and the converging di- 

 rection of the hair on the arms toward the elbow, all of which are peculiar 

 to anthropomorpha. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA. 123 



can never liave been of adaptive character, but we are at least 

 entitled to consider that if monkeys in general have flourished 

 luxuriantly with transverse ridges on the crowns of their upper 

 molars, and at most three sacral vertebrae, a slight oblique ridge 

 on the upper teeth and two or three additional vertebrse in the 

 sacrum can hardly be supposed to have had selective value to 

 anthropoids. 



The remaining theory, that of Cope, would account for the con- 

 ditions noted by the process of direct and simple inheritance, and 

 requires no greater amount of assumption than has more than 

 once been justified iu the course of phylogenic speculation. Frag- 

 mentary as are the remains of the Eocene lemuroids which have 

 come to light, they are enough to show that while the group as a 

 whole was generalized, it yet presented at that early period, a con- 

 siderable amount of variety in details, many of which have been 

 preserved in existing lemurs. Of these early forms we have 

 remains of little but jaws and teeth, but the many and curious 

 correspondences which have been noted betw^een anthropomorpha 

 and the Nijctlcehldce are best intelligible upon the supposition that 

 they originated in a group which, possessing the tooth characters 

 shown by each, had associated with them the other structures as 

 well; such may have existed among the Anaptomorphidce, but in 

 the present state of ignorance as regaixls the details of the remain- 

 ing skeletal structure of that group, it would be rash to attempt a 

 close specification, either of the particular form or of its geo- 

 graphical region. 



Cope's view- of the independent origin of the anthropomorpha 

 was based upon the supposed tendency in the human race to revert 

 to a tritubercular form of molar. There are minds to Avhich rever- 

 sion is but a convenient term denoting a process which it is rarely 

 possible to either prove or disprove; but whether or not it be 

 accepted in this case, ^' Prof. Osborn has figured the upper jaw of 

 a Primate^* (possibly Indrodon) from the Puerco beds, possessing 

 quadritubercular upper molars, with traces of an oblique ridge — an 

 observation which greatly fortifies Cope's position. His case of 

 reversion, if admitted, would then lead a stage further back to 



"It is to be observed that Topinard's refutation (L c, p. 707) of Cope's 

 hypothesis is ba*ed upon a misunderstandiug of its real terms. 

 ^^Bull. Am. Mus. of Xat. Hist., 1895, p. 19, fig. 4. 




124 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the primitive throe-cusped molar, which was in all certainty that 

 typical of the earliest lemuroids. 



The better agreement of this hypothesis with the successional 

 relations shown by paltTDontology, must be emphasized, for as far aa 

 can now be determined, apes of anthropoid character, such as 

 Pliopithecus and Dryopithecus, were already differentiated in the 

 middle Miocene, at which time, or even later, monkeys appear to 

 have been represented only by such intermediate forms as Meso- 

 pitheciis. No existing genus of catarrhine monkeys is known from 

 earlier deposits than Pajno and Macacus from the Sivalik beds of 

 lower Pliocene age, in which deposits other remains have been 

 found which there is reason to regard as referable to Anthro- 

 popithecus and Simla. The fact that before monkeys as now known, 

 began to exist, man -like apes were far advanced in development, 

 and that the earliest evidence of existing genera of apes is coeval 

 with that of existing genera of catarrhines, tells enormously in 

 favor of the early and independent origin of anthropomorpha. 



The objections to this view which arise from the closer corre- 

 spondence of anthropomorpha with moukevs, rather than with 

 lemurs, in many soft parts of the organism, are not to be over- 

 looked ; but the remarkable differences in placentation and in the 

 anatomy of the sexual organs disclosed by closely related genera, 

 and even species, in other groups; the smooth brains of marmosets 

 among monkeys, and the readily adaptable character of muscular 

 dispositions, and all structures relating to locomotion, renders these 

 characters of more or less uncertain value in classification. 



It is no part of the pi-esent purpose to inquire closely into the 

 corresponding stages in the pedigree of the remaining Primates, to 

 do which, indeed, we are yet too ignorant of many essential 

 details, but this much may be said : the Nyeticebidce, which sug- 

 gest so many human and simian traits, are far from being typical 

 lemurs, with which in general structure the monkeys show much 

 agreement; but catarrhines and platyrrhines are wide enough apart 

 in many ways, and the period during which they have been thus 

 separated is so immeasurable, as to suggest Ihe greater probability 

 that their chief characteristics were already differentiated in their 

 respective Tertiary forerunners. The remarkable fact that some 

 platyrrhine genera, as Ateles, present traces of nearly all the modi- 

 fications which have been noted as characteristic of anthropomorpha 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



and the Nydieebidce, perhaps supports this view, but at the same 

 time well illustrates the complexity of the problem. 



If the progress of palaeontology should justify these specula- 

 tions, it seems to follow that it is likely to also demonstrate the- 

 multiple rather than the single origin of the present Lenmro idea. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMPARATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE GIZZARD 

 IN THE ODONATA ZYGOPTERA. 



BY HELEN T. HIGGINS. 



The following study^ was undertaken on the advice and under 

 the direction of Dr. Philip P. Calvert, instructor in Zoology in the 

 University of Pennsylvania. 



Dr. Ris' work on the gizzard of the Odonata and Dr. Calvert's 

 study of Californian forms strongly suggested the phylogenetic 

 importance of this organ. 



The present study has been limited to the more primitive 

 Odonata — the suborder Zygojjtera. 



I am indebted to Dr. Calvert for the material placed at my dis- 

 posal, for many of my preparations, including his slides used in 

 his paper of 1899 mentioned later, for the determination of genus 

 and species in every case, and for the suggestion of the structural 

 formula used in describing the gizzards. 



In 1890, Dr. F. Ris published" a paper entitled Untersuchungen 

 ' iiber die Gestalt des Kaumagens bei den Lihellen and ihren Larven. 



The results of his investigations are briefly outlined here: 



In the Odonata the fore-gut extends to the third abdominal seg- 

 ment. In larva and imago alike the gizzard is found at the pos- 

 terior end of the fore-gut in the second abdominal segment. It is 

 formed by a thickening of the muscle layer, and by a modification 

 of the chitinous coat of the fore-gut to form folds armed with 

 teeth. The number of these folds is four, eight or sixteen. The 

 metamorphosis to the imago shows a regular reduction in the 

 strength and complication of the elements, but their number varies 

 greatly. At the metamorphosis, the larval lining is shed with the 

 chitinous coat of the exterior of the body; Dr. Ris states that he 

 found in a Lihellula, directly after metamorphosis, the old gizzard 

 lining enclosed within the new. He examined the larval and adult 



^ Accepted by the Uliiversity of Pennsylvania as a thesis for the degree of 

 Bachelor of Science in Biology, June, 1900. 

 ^ Zoolog. Ja/trbiicJt., IX. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



form of Calopteryx virgo, C. sj^leyidens, Pyrrhosoma minium, P. 

 ienellum, Agrion puella and pulchellum, Erythromma (najas), 

 Enallagma (cyathigennn), Ischnura (elegcms) and Platycnemis 

 pennipes, Lestes virens, Gomphus, jEschna, Anax, Corchdegaster 

 annulatus and hidentaius, Cordulia cenea, Diplax, Lihellula, 

 Orthetrum. 



The conclusions drawn by Dr. Ris from his investigations are as 

 follows : 



Larvce. — The original form of the gizzard shows a division into 

 sixteen longitudinal folds, eight broad and eight narrow, which 

 bear an armature of irregularly placed teeth. This type is found 

 in the Calopterygince. 



A higher development of the organ appears in the typical 

 group of the Agrionince ; the sixteen folds show a greater number 

 of teeth and a more complicated arrangement of these. 



The legion Lester shows a reduction of the sixteen folds to 

 eight, apparently through the loss of the smaller folds. These 

 eight folds are again divided into four broad and four narrower 

 folds. In i\\e Anisoptera {Gomphus and jE-ichna) there is reduc- 

 tion to four equal, similar folds. Finally, Corditlegaster and the 

 Libellulidce differentiate the folds into two pairs of teeth, so that 

 the original radial symmetry is changed to bilateral. 



Tmagos. — The series easily traced in the larval forms is some- 

 what confused in the images, owing to the reduction which inva- 

 riably occurs. The least reduction from larva to adult is found in 

 the Calopterygince; more is shown in the Agrionince, where is seen 

 the tendency to eliminate the smaller fold in certain individuals; 

 the strongest reduction occurs in Gomphus and jEschna; in 

 Cordulegaster and in the Libellulidce scarcely more than a hint of 

 the relation to the larva remains. 



This purely morphological development from the radial symme- 

 try of numerous elements of an organ to the bilateral symmetry of a 

 few elements runs parallel with the phylogenetic relationships of 

 the single groups. 



In a paper on the Odonata from Tepic, Mex.,* 1899, Dr. Cal- 

 vert gives notes on the gizzards of the forms studied by him. 

 Contrary to Dr. Ris and other previous writers, he finds the posi- 

 tion of the junction of fore- and mid-gut, and therefore of the 



^Proc. Gal. Acad, of Scieiices (Third Series, Vol. I, No. 12, 1899). 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



gizzard, to be very variable. lie examined the gizzards of 

 Hetizriiia, americani, Archilestes grandis, Leste-s tenuatus, Argia 

 pulla and agrioides, Eri/thagrion salvum, Ischnura Ramburii var. 

 credala, Ana.v Junius, H'irpetogomphus elaps, Pantala hymencea, 

 Pseudoleon superhm, Tramea onusta, Dythemls sterllis, Micrathyria 

 Hagenlf Orthemis ferruginea and D'lplax corrupta. 



Dr. Ris and Dr. Calvert agree generally on the morphology of 

 the forms studied by both. They differ, however, in the phylo- 

 genetic position of the legion Lestes. 



Dr. Calvert does not draw any phylogenetic conclusions from his 

 studies, considering the examination of many more forms neces- 

 sary before this can safely be done. 



Preparation of Present Material. — The present study has been 

 based upon representatives of the sub-families Calopterygince and 

 Agrionince collected from every continent. 



The preparations have largely been made from dried^ specimens. 

 From these the abdomens were cut off at the base of the third 

 segment and soaked in seventy per cent, alcohol until softened. 

 Some of these, even after long soaking, were so brittle that only 

 fragments of the gizzard could be mounted. In cases where, 

 because of its fragmentary condition, the structure of the gizzard 

 is at all doubtful, I have put an interrogation point after the 

 descriptive formula. The remainder of the material studied had 

 been preserved in alcohol or formaline. 



To obtain and prepare the chitinous lining of the gizzard for 

 study, the abdomen was slit open along one of the membranous 

 pleura, the gizzard located, and separated from the rest of the 

 ahmentary canal by a fine pair of scissors. The gizzard was cut 

 open, the muscular coat removed with nesdles, aad the chitiuous 

 lining spread out flat upon a slide. After cleaning, this was 

 mounted in Canada balsam, making a very distinct preparation for 

 study. In nearly every case the dried specimens from which the 

 gizzards have been removed have been again put together, so that 

 their value as ordinary museum material has been little, if at all, 

 impaired. 



The larvae studied belong mainly to the sub-family Agrioninoc. 

 They were collected from the vicinity of Philadelphia and were 

 either fresh or preserved in alcohol. 



* See the. report of the meeting of the Academy of Natural ficieuces of 

 Philadelphia of January 17, 1899, in Science, Vol. IX, p. 183. 




1901. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA. 129 



Development of the Gizzard. 



The gizzard is a specially thickeued aud cuticularized portion of 

 the alimentary canal, appearing at the junction of fore- and mid- 

 gut, and projecting slightly into the latter. Externally is a coat 

 of circular muscle fibres, thicker in the larvaj than in the adult 

 and varying in thickness in adults of different genera. Within is 

 a layer of epithelial cells, at first one cell in thickness, but later 

 becoming many cells thick in definite areas, to form folds project- 

 ing into the lumen of the canal. 



In the forms examined, four folds or some mvdtiple of four to 

 as many as thirty-two have been found — sixteen and eight being 

 the numbers most commonly occurring. 



From the epithelial cells is developed the inner chitinous coat of 

 the gizzard, which is thin on the spaces between folds, becoming 

 thickened on the folds aud forming here horny teeth of various sizes. 



The writer has examined Agrionine larvie from the time of 

 hatching to the period immediately preceding metamorphosis. 



In larvffi just hatched no evidence of any gizzard-armature was 

 found. 



The following statements refer to larvte of Ischnura verticalis 

 Say: 



In larviB 3 and 4 mm. in length' the gizzard is quite clearly 

 marked (fig. 25). The chitinous coat shows sixteen folds or fields, 

 eight larger alternating with eight smaller. Each larger field is 

 armed with teeth arranged in two groups, an anterior and a pos- 

 terior, the latter occupying about the centre of the gizzard. The 

 posterior group consists of two large pointed teeth, each enclosed 

 on its outer side by four to five small teeth. The anterior group 

 comprises two pointed narrow teeth intermediate in size between 

 the two sets mentioned above. 



Each smaller field has one group of three to four sjuall teeth, 

 ■which are at the same level as that of the posterior group of the 

 larger fields. 



A larva 6 mm. long shows practically the same armature, but 

 on the smaller fields also there are often two groups, the anterior 

 comprising one to two teeth, the posterior three to four. 



' In all of these larvae, by length 1 meau the distance measured from the 

 external anterior part of the head to the posterior limit of the last abdom- 

 inal segment, the gills being excluded. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



A larva 8 mm. long gliows considerable difference in the size and 

 number of the teeth (PL IV, fig. 2(i). The anterior groups of 

 both fields show an increase in the number of teeth, which remain 

 approximately the same in size. In the posterior groups the 

 smaller teeth show decrease in size with increase in number; the 

 two large teeth of the larger fold remaining the same in size. 



A larva of 10 mm. length shows much the same structure. 



Three larvte of 15 mm. length show the same line of develop- 

 ment carried a little further (fig, 27), an increase in number of 

 the teeth of the anterior groups of both folds, slight increase in 

 number with continued decrease in size of the small teeth of the 

 posterior groups of both folds. 



In all larvie studied the gizzard was found in the second ab- 

 dominal seguient. 



Young images of Ischnura verticalis were examined soon after 

 metamorphosis. In those dissected directly after the spreading of 

 the wings only the larval gizzard was observed. This lay in the 

 sixth segment. In an adult in which the coloring was distinctly 

 developed, the larval gizzard lining lay immediately within that 

 of the adult, which latter bore a very different armature (PI. Ill, 

 fig. 17). In still other individuals the adult gizzard was in the 

 sixth segment, while the lining of the larval gizzard and of the 

 fore-gut of the larva, coiled up in a mass, lay in the lumen of the 

 canal in the seventh segment. These observations suggest the 

 possibility of learning something of the structure of the gizzard 

 of the larva) of exotic species by inspecting the contents of the 

 alimentary canal of imagos whose colors show them to have but 

 recently transformed. 



To sum up the development of the gizzard lining in Ischnura 

 verticals, it is seen that from its earliest appearance (which in the 

 present study was found in a larva 3 mm. long) there is a steady 

 increase in the number of teeth on oil folds with a deciease in size 

 in those of posterior groups. At metamorphosis the gizzard 

 moves backward from the second to the sixth abdominal segment. 

 A new chitinous coat is formed on the fore-gut, with a new gizzard 

 armature. The larval lining lying within the adult lining becomes 

 loosened from it and finally separates entirely, and is found, within 

 a few hours after metamorphosis, lying coiled up within the canal. 

 It is probable that in still older imagos the cast-ofi larval gizzard 




1901.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



lining lies still further posterior in the canal, and is finally voided 

 through the anus. 



The Gizzard of Various Adults. 



The position of the gizzard in the imago was found to vaiy from 

 the third abdominal segment to the seventh. In the majority of 

 forms examined the gizzard lies in the centre or posterior extremity 

 of the sixth segment; in a small number it lies in the fifth, in a 

 still smaller in the seventh, and in a very few io the third or 

 fourth segment. 



Variat^'ons in the position are frequently found in different 

 species of the same genus and even in different individuals of the 

 same species. 



A male of Caloj)tpryx apical'is had the gizzard in the anterior 

 end of the sixth segment, a female in the centre of the fifth; 

 while in a male of C. comelia it was located in the fifth segment. 



In a male of Phaon iridijyennis the gizzard was found in the 

 posterior end of the sixih segment; in a male of P. fuliginosus 

 in the third, and in a female of the same species in the sixth 

 segment. 



In four species of Ve-sfalis the position varied only from the 

 posterior end of the fifth to the middle of the sixth segment. 

 The same variation was seen in five species of Hetcerina, and like- 

 wise in four species of Euphcea. 



In the 9 of Libellago ealigata the gizzard was found in the 

 third segment, in tne d" in the fifth, and in L. curta, cf, in the 

 fourth segment. In four individuals — two species — of Micromerus 

 it was found in the fifih; in Thore boliviana, c?, in the centre of 

 the fifth, in ? in anterior end of seventh; in Eutliore hyalina, 

 d, in the anterior end of sixth, in $ in posterior end of fifth. 



Of the Agrionince, legion Pseudostigma, its position varied in 

 eight individuals, of five genera, from the middle of the sixth to 

 the anterior extremity of the seventh segment; in the Legion 

 Podagrion, in five males and one female of Paraphlebia sp. (group 

 of Zoe), the position varied only from the anterior end to the 

 centre of the sixth segment; in five species of the genus Hettra- 

 grioii, from the posteiicr end of the fifth to the anterior of the 

 seventh; in the legion Platycnemis, in four genera, the organ was 

 found \n the sixth or seventh segment; in the \Qg\on Protoneura 




132 rKOCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan. 



— in three species of DUparoneura, in three of Neoneura and in 

 three of Protoneura — the same variation is seen, from the poste- 

 rior end of the sixth to the anterior of the seventh; of the Legion 

 Agrion it appears in the sixth segment in Hyponeura liigens, 

 Ischnura heterodieta, Eiiallarjma ebrium, geminatum and asper- 

 sum, m Nehalentiia lal-<, Ceriagrion glahrum, Anlmgrion aUoptenim 

 and JSemiphlebia mlrahiUs ; in the fifth in Argia jmtrida, Pyv' 

 rhosoma tenellum; in the seventh in LepUAgrion macrurum and Lep- 

 tohaais vacillam ; of the legion Le-ite-i it appears in the sixth 

 segment in Lestes disjiuida and L. leda. 



Armature of the Adult Gizzard. 



To save the necessity of giving lengthy descriptions of the 

 arraatui'e of each gizzard studied, and more especially to render 

 the comparison of tliese armatures more easy, it was found con- 

 venient to construct a formula whereby the general structure of 

 the armature might be indicated. 



Below is given an explanation of the formulie used: 



F, F, f, indicate specially chitinized areas of the gizzard lining, 

 whether they bear teeth or not. They may stand as abbrevia- 

 tions of "field" ("Felder" of Ris) or '''fold." When the 

 fiekls are approximately alike only one size letter may be used — 

 F ; when unlike, F will denote the largest sized areas, F medium 

 sized, f small sized When the areas are of but two sizes F and 

 f may be used. 



Arabic figHrc-^ following F, f, f, denote the number of teeth 

 borne by each field respectively; when the number is great (40 or 

 more) n is used to denote this fact. When in one and the same 

 gizzard the teeth are of different sizes this is indicated by use of 

 the marks ', ", '" ; ' denotes the largest sized teeth, " medium 

 sized, '" smallest sized. 



Wherever a gizzard consists of a repetition of similar fields, the 

 formula may be shortened by enclosing the repeated arrangement 

 within parentheses, and placing the proper coefficient before the 

 parenthesis to indicate the number of times the repetition occurs. 



When the same field contains two groups of teeth separated by 

 a distinct interval, these two groups are indicated in the formula 

 by placing one above the other with a horizontal line between them, 

 as in common fractions, the anterior group of teeth being repre- 




1901.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



seuted by the numerator, the posterior group of teeth by the 

 denoioinator. 



The abbreviation rec. is used to indicate recurved teeth, as in 

 Pamphlebia. 



To ilhistrate tlie application of the formula, I may refer to fig. 

 13, PI. Ill, of Argia h'lpuncbi.hda. In this species thfre are six- 

 teen folds, eight larger and eight smaller. The formula would be 

 therefore: 8 (F 12-14, f 1-3), where F represents the larger 

 fields, with teeth varying in number from twelve to fourteen; f, 

 the smaller folds with teeth varying from one to three. 



The teeth here are all of approximately the same size. 



For Xaidha[/rio)i erythroneurum (fig. 15), where the teeth have 

 a definite arrangement into groups, we must use a more compli- 

 cated formula. Here there are sixteen fields, each field showing 

 two distinct groups of teeth. The anterior groups are represented 

 by the numerators of the fractions, the posterior by the denomina- 

 tors. The difference in size of the teeth is indicated by the 

 marks ' and ", the former representing the larger teeth, the latter 

 the smaller ones. 



The formula therefore is 8 (F ^_~^~, f ^'). 



The omission of one or more folds from an individual gizzard 

 is not uncommon (see fig. 12), so that often it is only possible to 

 construct a fo)"mula when several specimens of a given species are 

 examined and compared. 



The following list of the species of adults whose gizzard-armatures 

 have been studied gives the number of each sex examined, the 

 abdominal segment in which the gizzard was found (and often 

 whether in the anterior or posterior part of the segment), the 

 locality whence the material came and the armature formula: 



Sub-family CALOPTERYGIN^. 

 Legion 1. — Calopteryx Selys. 



Calopteryx maculata Beau v. 2 d^. Pennsylvania. 4 (F 6-8, 

 f 2-4, p 4-5, f 2-4). 



Calopteryx apicalis Burm. cf'. 6th segment, ant. Tom's 

 River, N. J. 4 (F 6-8, f 2-4, f 5-7, f 2-4). 



Calopteryx apicalis Burm. £ . 5th segment, ant. Tom's 

 River, N. J. 4 (F 6-8, f 2-4, f 5-7, f 2-4). 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Calopteryx cornelia Selys. 2 cJ*. 5th segment, post. Japan. 

 4 (F 12-13, f 6-7, F 11-12, f 6-7). 



Sapho orichalcea McLach. 1 ? . 4-5th segments. Kame- 

 run, W. Africa. 4 (F 5-7, f 5-6, f 6-7, f 5-6). 



Sapho ciliata Fabr. 1 cf. 5th segment, post. Bismarckburg, 

 AV. Africa. 8 (F 8-9, f 3-6). 



Umma ( Cleis) longistigma Selys. 1 d^. Kamerun, W. Africa. 

 8 (F 20-25, f 3-5). 



Mnais strigata Selys. 1 ?. 4th segment. Japan. 4 (F 8-10, 

 f 7-9, F 8-9, f 7-9). 



Phaon fuUginosus Selys. 1 $ . 6th segment. Madagascar. 

 4 (F 4-8, f 3-4, F 4-5, f 3-4). 



Phaon fuUginosus Selys. 1 c?. 3d segment. Madagascar. 

 4 (F 4-8, f 3-4, F 4-5, f 3-4). 



Phaon iridipennu Burm. 1 cT. 6th segment, post. Be Kilns. 

 4 (F 4-6, f 2-3, P 5-6, f 2-3). 



Vestalis luctuosa Burm. 1 cf. 6th segment, ant. Java. 

 4 (F 25-30, f 20-25). 



Vestalis luctuosa Burm. 1 ?. 5th segment, post. Java. 

 4 (F 25-30, f 20-25). 



Vestalis gracilis B.7imh. 1 d* and 1 ?. 6th segment. Palone, 

 Burma. 4 (F 20-25, f 15). 



Vestalis amwna Selys. c? and ?. 6th segment. Deli, Su- 

 matra. 4 (F 15-20, f 10-12). 



Vestalis apicalis Selys. ?. 6th segment, ant. Nilgiris. 

 4 (F 10-15, f 8-10). 



Hetcerina occisa Selys. c? and ?. 6th segment. Mexico. 

 8 (F n). 



Hetcerina titia Drury. d and ?. 6th segment. Texas. 

 4(Fn, fn). 



Hetcerina cruentata Ramb. J'. 6th segment. Mexico. 

 8 (F n). 



Hetcerina vulnerata Selys. ?. Dublan, INIex. 4 (F n, f u, 

 F n, f n). 



Hetcerina vulnerata Selys. d. 5th segment. Dublan, Mex. 

 8 (Fn, f n). 



Hetcerina americana Fabr. 4-6th :;egmeut3. Tepic, Mex. 

 4 (Fn). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. loO 



Hetcerina americana. cf. 6tli segment. Penusylvania. 

 4 (F n" + 4'-6', f n" -r 3'-6'). 



Retcerina americana. Larval-gizzard from preceding c?'. 

 4 (F n" + 8'-12', f n" - 5'-6'). 



Legiou 2. — Euphaea Selys. 



Eupha;a impar Selys. 1 d". 5th segment, post. Borneo. 

 8 (F n, f 0-n, F n, f On). The fields, f, which are very short, 

 vary greatly in the number of teeth ; these in some cases being 

 numerous, in others 2-4, in others seeming to be absent altogether. 



Eiiphcea lara Kriiger. 

 8 (F D, f On, Fn, f 0-n). 



Eiiphcea variegata Ramb. 



Euj)hma ochracea Selys. 

 6^(F n, f n, F n, f n). 



Epallage fatime Charp. 

 Minor. 8 (F n, f n). 



1 d'. Gih segment, post. Borneo. 



d. Java. 8 (F n, f n, F n, f n). 

 d. Sixth segment, post. Burma. 



?. 4th segment. Taurus, Asia 



Legion o. — Amphipteryx Selys. 



Amphipteriix aijrioides Se^ys. 2 d. 6th segment. 

 8 (F 8-10, f 4-5). 



Legion 4. — Libellago Selys. 



Libellar/o eurta Selys. d. 4th segment. Abyssinia, 

 f 6-8, F 10-12, f 6-8). 



Libel lago calirjata Selys. d. 5 th segment. 

 4 (F 12-15, f 5-9, F 12-16, f 6-9). 



Libellago crxligata Selys. ?. 3d 

 4 (F 12-15, f 5-9, F 12-16, f 6-9). 



RhUiocypha biseriata Selys. ? and d. 

 4 (F 6-9, f 3-5, F 6-8, f 3-5). 



Rlwiocijplia Pagemtecheri Forst 

 f^5, F 7-10, f 5). 



Micromevus lineatus Burm. 3 d. 

 4 (F 10-13, f 3-5, F 9-10, f 3-5). 



Micromeras obscurus Kirby. d 

 4_;(F 10, f 4-6, F 6-S, f 4-6)'. 



Legion 5. — Thore Sely 



Thore boliviana McLach. d. 5th 

 Bolivia. 4 (F n, f n)? 



Guatemala. 



4 (F 10-14, 



Abyssinia. 



segment. Abyssinia. 



4th segment. Borneo. 



d. Sumbawa. 4 (F 8-10, 



5th segment. Java, Ceylon. 



5 th segment. Ceylon. 



segment. Chulumaui, 




13G ntOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau,, 



Thoi'e boliviana ^IcLach. ?. 7th segment, aut. Chulumani, 

 Bolivia. 4(Fn, fn)? 



Euthore hyalina Selys. ?. 5lli segment, post. Road to 

 Coroico, Bolivia. 4 (F n, f □)? 



Cora marina Selys. 2 cJ'. 5th segment, post. Vera Cruz. 

 4(Fn, fn)? 



Cora inca Selys. ?. 6th segment. Chulumani. 4 (F u, 

 f n)? These became so much broken in dissection and mounting 

 that the formula cannot be stated positively. Some seem to show 

 twelve bands. 



Sub-family AGRIONIN^. 



Legion 1. — Pseud ostigma Selys. 



Megalojjrepus cceridatusDruYy. 2 d". 6th segment. 8 (F 30-35, 

 f 20-25). 



Microstujma rotundatiim Selys. 1 cf. 7th segment, ant. 

 Bolivia. 4 (F 35-40, f 10-16, f 30-35, f 10-16). 



Mkrostigma anomalum Ramb. d'. Gth segment. Apehu^ 

 Brazil. 4 (F 18-20, f 6-8, f 10-12, f 6-8). 



Anomisma abnorme McLach. Gth segment. Rio Bobonaza, 

 Ecuador. 8 (F 18-20, f 8-10)? 



Mecistogaster viodestus Selys. S^. Bugaba. 8 (F n, f n). 



3Iecistogaster ornatiis Ramb. d\ 7tli segment. Tepic, INIex. 

 8 (F n, f n). 



Pseudostigma aberrans Selys. cJ^. 5th segment. Atoyac, 

 Mexico. 8 (F n, f n)? 



Legion 2.— Podagrion Selys. 



Paraphlebia sp. (group of Zoe). 5 cJ', 1 ?. 6th segment. 

 Guatemala. 8 (F 2' + 11"-13" -^ 4"-5" rec, f 3"-4"). 



Paraphlebia sp. (group of Zoe) var. J^. Misantla, Mexico. 

 8 (F 2' -f 8"-9" -r 2" rec). 



Philogenia Berenice Hag. cf . 6th segment. Equitos, Peru. 

 8 (Fn, f n). 



Philogenia cassandra Hag. d'. 6th segment. Chiriqili. 

 8 (F n, f n). Teeth much smaller than in Berenice. 



Megapodagrion venale Selys. d. 6th segment. Probably 

 Porto Cabello, Venezuela. 8 (F 3-7, f 1-2). 



Heteragrion eri/throgastrum Seijs. d. 7th segment. Bugaba. 

 4 (Fn, f n). 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELrHIA. 137 



Hetemgnon chrysops Hag. <^. 6tli segment, post. Guate- 

 mala. 4 (F n, f 5-8, F 30-35, f 5-8). 



Heteragrion elwysojjs Hag. cT- 7th segment, out. Guate- 

 mala. 4 (F n, f 5-8, F 30-35, f 5-8). 



Heterarjrion inca Hag. 2 d'. 5-6th segment, 7th segment, 

 ant. 4 (F u, f 20-25, f n, f 20-25). 



Heteragrion n. sp. (group of Chrysojos). cJ. Atoyac, Mexico. 

 8 (F n, f 5-35). 



Legion 3. — Platycnemis Selys. 



Tatocnemis malagcmica Kivhy. 9. 7th segment. Madagascar. 

 k n? ^' f -0'-30'n 



Lejjtocnemis h'dineata Selys. d^. Seychelle Islands. 8 (F u, 

 f 15-20). 



Leptocnemis bllmeata Selys. ?. Seychelle Islands. 4 (F n, 

 f 12-19, F n, f 12-19). 



C(eliccia octogesima Selys. d and 9. 7th segment, ant. 

 Borneo. 4 (F 6-12, f 2-4, f 5-8, f 2-4). 



Copera atomaria Selys. cf. 6th segment, post. Borneo. 

 4 (F 5'-7' + n'" rec, f l"-2", f 4", f l"-2"). 



Legion 4. — Protoneura Selys. 



Dlsparoneura analii Selys. d'. 6th segment, post. Borneo. 

 4 (F 3' + n", f 3' + n"). 



Disparoneura collaris Selys. c? and ?. 6th segment, post. 

 Borneo. 4 (F n, f n). 



Disparoneura sp. (near delia). cT. Borneo. 4 (F n, f n)? 



Caconeura dorsalis. d" and ?. 7th segment, ant. Borneo. 

 4 (Fn, f n). 



Neoneura n. sp. (group of carnatica). c?. 7th segment, ant. 

 Guatemala. 4 (F 2' -r 2"-4", f 1', f 2' + l"-2", f 1'). 



Neoneura n. sp. (group of ruhriventris). cf. 7th segment, 

 ant. Equitos, Peru. 8 (F 2' -f 20"-30", f l'-2' + 10"-20"). 



Protoneura n. sp. (group of humeraUs'). d. 6th segment, 

 post. Guatemala. 8 (F 2' + n", f 1' + n")- 



Protoneura aurantiaca Selys. c^. 7th segment, ant. Tabasco, 

 Mex. 8 (F l'-2' + n", f 1' + n"). 



Protoneura n. sp. (group of sanda). 2 d and 2 ?. 7th seg- 

 ^ , , T, 1 ,r I 8 (F 2' + n", f 1" + n"). 



ment, ant. Tabasco, Mex. | g )p 2' + n", f n"). 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Legion 5. — Agrion Selys. 



Hyponeura lugens Hag. d'. 6th segment. Guatemala. 

 8;(F 17-25. f 4-7). 



Iliiponeura lugens Hag. J*. 5th segment, post. Guatemala. 

 8 (F 17-25, f 4-7). 



Argia pntrida Hag. 6". ' 5tli segment. 8 (F 14-21, f 2-10). 



Argia blpunctxdata Hag. Xesv Jersey. 8 (F 12-14, f 1-3). 



Argia agrioides Calv. d^ and 9. San Jose del Cabo, Baja 

 Cal. 4(F .^ZJ^'l^c f 2'-5', P ll'-15', f 2'-5'). 



Argia piilla Seljs. J'. Tepic, Mex. 8 (F 7-9, f 2-3). 



Ischnura heterostlcta Burm. cf'. Gth segment. Victoria, 

 Australia. 8 (F 13-15). 



Ischnura Ramburii Selys var. credula. ?. San Jose del Cabo. 

 S (F 10-15). 



Anomalagrlon hastatum Sa,j. cJ*. Pennsylvania. 8 (F 9-10). 



Enallagma ebrium Hag. ?. 6th segment. New York. 

 ? 8 (F 16'-18' + 6"-12", f 0-3' -f u"). 



Enallagma geminatum Kell. ?, 6th segment. New York. 



4 (F 15'-18', f n", P 14'-16', f n"). 



Enallagma aspersion Hag. d^. Gth segment. New York. 

 8.(F20'-22', f n"). 



Nehalennia lais Brauer. cJ*. 6th segment. Morelos, Mex. 

 4 (F 25-30, f 18-20). 



Fyrrhosoma tenellum Yill. c?. 5th segment. Le Blanc, 

 France. 8 (F 25-30, f 8-12). : 



Pyrrhosoma minium Harr. d'. Le Blanc, France. 8 (F 2' 

 + n"). 



Xanthagrion erythroneurum Selys. d. Victoria, Australia. 



^ ^ 2' + 10"-13"' -^ 5" /• •• ~ 



Ceriagrion glabrum Burm. 3 d. 6th segment, post. Mada- 

 gascar. 8 (F 2' + 18"-20", f 5"-10"). 



Anisagrion allopterum Selys. d. 6th segment. Costa Rica. 

 8 (F 10-12, f 1-2). 



Erythagrion salvum Hag. d- San Jose del Cabo, Baja Cal. 

 8 (F 2' + 4"-6", f 1"). 



Erythagrion salvum Hag. d. San Jose del Cabo, Baja Cal. 

 8 (F 7-9, f 1-2). 



® It is quite likely that this is a larval gizzard ; compare with figa. 25-27. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



Leptagrion macrurum Burm. cf. 7th segment, ant. Brazil. 

 8 (F 6'-8' + n", f 10"-20" + 2'-3'). 



Leptobasis vacillans Selys. 2 c?. 7th segment, ant. Tabasco, 

 Mex. 4 (F 13-15, f 10-12). 



Agriocnemis femina Brauer. cf. 6th segment. Borneo. 

 4 (F 10-15, f 8-10)? 



Hemiphlebia mirabilis Selj$. ?. Victoria. 4 (F 2'-4' + n", 

 f n", F n", f n"). 



Legion G. — Lestes Selys. 



Archilestes grandis Ramb. cf . San Jose del Cabo, Baja Cal. 

 8(Fn). 



Lestes disjundus Selys. 6th segment, New York. 8 (F n). 

 Lestes vigilax Seljs. cJ'. New York. 4 (F n, f n). 

 Lestes leda Selys. d. 6th segment. Victoria. 4 (F n, f n). 

 Lestes ienuatus B^amh. ?. Tepic, Mex. 8 (F n)? 



Intra-genePvIC Variations. 



By an examination of the structural formulae given above it 

 will be seen that a classification into genera based on resemblances 

 in gizzard structure would agree in most cases with that now in 

 use based upon the structure of wings and other extei-nal features of 

 the body. If, for instance, we examine the structural formulae 

 for Sapho orichalcea and S. ciliata, we find very little difference 

 between the two species. In both we see sixteen fields, which in 

 the former are of three sizes, and in the latter of two. But the 

 number and size of the teeth are approximately equal. 



Where a number of species of one genus have been studied, 

 these all, as a rule, show the same number of folds. Exceptions 

 are seen in the genera Hetcerina and Heterafj rion. Of five speciea 

 of Hetcerina examined, four show eight folds of the gizzard lining, 

 and one, americana, four folds, although another specimen of the 

 same species (PI. II, figs. 2 and 3) shows eight folds in both larval 

 and adult gizzard linings; of four species of Heteragrion three have 

 sixteen folds; one, eight. 



Even when they vary in the number of folds, species of the 

 same genus are seen to agree almost invariably in the size and 

 number of teeth on each fold, as well as in the arrangement of 

 these. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JaU. , 



A marked exception to thi;; was found in the genus Heteragrion. 

 Of four species of this genus, three had sixteen folds, varying 

 in size, tlie largest folds bearing numerous teeth (above forty;, 

 the smaller ones bearing from five to thirty, while the fourth 

 species had but eight folds, each fold bearing numerous teeth. 



Again, of four species of Argia, three are similar, bearing 

 eight " F" folds and eight " f " folds, the teeth on all folds 

 being of equal size. But in the fourth species, A. agrloides, there 

 are four " F" folds, eight " f " folds, and four "f" folds; on 

 the two lalt.er the teeth are equal in size, but on the four " F " 

 folds they are arranged in two groups, those of the anterior group 

 being similar to the teeth on the other folds, those of the posterior 

 being much smaller and recurved. 



Data for Phylogexy. 



When the studies whose results are contained in the present 

 paper were begun, it was hoped that they would yield data of 

 value in determining the pbylogeny of the insects investigated. 

 The data are now at hand, but the desired interpretation is yet to 

 be made. One may spin several difierent theories on the lines of 

 descent of these Odonata if regard be had merely to the armature 

 of the gizzard. Bui since these theories would rest on precisely 

 the same evidence in each case, it is wise to refrain from such 

 theorizing until these results can be correlated with others drawn 

 from embryological and comparative anatomical data. 



It is worth pointiug out, however, as one present gain to our 

 knowledge which will bear on the question of phylogenies, that the 

 occurrence of numerous minute teeth only is a phenomenon of 

 frequent repetitiou, since it is met with in the genus Hetcerina of 

 the legion Caloptenjx, and in all species of the legions Evphoea 

 and Thore of the Calopterygince, while in the Agrionince it is ob- 

 served in Jlecistogader and Pseudostigma (legion Pseudostigma) , 

 Philogenia (legion Podagrion), some Disparoneura and Caconeura 

 (legion Proloncura) and all of the legion Lestes. 



The problem which this phenomenon suggests is to determine 

 whether it represents a more primitive condition, originally common 

 to all groups to which the genera named belong, or whether it 

 represents independent, parallel and similar modifications in each 

 group from some other and different form of gizzard-armature. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELnilA. 141 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES II, III AND IV. 



All the figures are camera lucida drawings, and represent por- 

 tions of the gizzard linings, spread out flat. The fraction after 

 each name indicates how much of each lining is shown. A line 

 indicting a scale length of one- tenth millimeter is placed along- 

 side most of the figui'es. 



Plate II. 



Fig. 1. Calopteryx maculata. d^. ^. 



Fig. 2. Hetcerina americana. c? from Pennsylvania. ^. 



Fig. 3. Hetcerina americana. Larva. ^. 



Fig. 4. Protoneura sp. , group of sancta. ? . l , 



Fig. 5. Hetcerina vulnerata. ?. ^. 



Fig. 6. Vestalis luctuosa. d^. ^. 



Fig. 7. Vestalis apicalis. 9 . ^. . 



Fig. 8. Amphipteryx agrioides. cT. ^. 



Fig. 9. Lihellago caligata. d^. ^. 



Fig. 10. Euphcea impar. d. 5. 



Plate III. ; 



Fig. 11. Microstigma rotunclatuni. d'. 5-. 



Fig. 12. Enallagma ebrium. $. J^. The small fold f is not 

 developed in the portion figured. 



Fig. 13. Argia hipiuictulata. ^. 



Fig. 14. Megaloprepus cKvulatus. d. «-• 



Fig. 15. Xanthagrion erythroneurum. y\. Probably larval 

 gizzard; comj)are figs. 25-27. 



Fig. 16. Megapodagrion venale. d. ^. 



F'ig. 17. Ischnura verticalis. ^. 



Fig. 18. Heteragrion inca. d. ^. 



Fig. 19. Tatocnemis malagassica. ?. |-. 



Fig. 20. Paraphlehia sp. \. 



Fig. 21. Hemij)hlehia mirahilis. ?. ^. 



Fig. 22. Lestes vigilax. d. ^. 



Fig. 23. Mnais strigata. 9. ^. On either side of the right- 

 hand f fold is a row of 2-3 teeth, representing, prob- 

 ably, a series of still smaller folds. 



Fig. 24. Leptoenemis hilineata. d. ■^^ 



Plate IV. 



Fig. 25. Zichiiura verticalis. Larva, length 4 mm. {^. 

 Fig. 26. Ischnura verticalis. Larva, length 8 mm. ^. 

 Fig. 27. Ischnura verticalis. Larva, length 15 mm. 1. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



February 5. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Marine Mollusks," by Edward G. 

 Vanatta, was presented for publication. 



Relationships of the Gtniis Neoheliscus. — Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, 

 referring to an account of the anatomy of this genus of South 

 American land snails, ^ stated that in commenting upon the pecu- 

 liarities of the reproductive organs he had overestimated their di- 

 vergence from structures of African Achatinidw, having overlooked 

 a paper by Arruda Furtado, ^ in which the anatomy of Atopocochlis 

 exaratus is described. This genus and species, the speaker con- 

 tinued, is confined to the island San Thome, in the Gulf of Guinea; 

 and resembles Neoheliscus in having the retractor muscle of the 

 penis inserted upon the right ocular band (instead of upon the dia- 

 phragm, as usual in land snails), and as in Neoheliscus the albumen 

 gland is reduced to very small proportions. The separation of 

 the male and female ducts clearly indicates that Atopocochlis is 

 viviparous, like Neoheliscus, although no information is given by 

 Furtado upon this point. The podocyst described in embryos of 

 Neoheliscus is similar to that of Achutitia. These facts indicate 

 that the South Ameiican genus has its nearest existing allies in 

 West African genera, and accordingly modify the general conclu- 

 sions set forth in his former paper. 



February 12. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



]Sline persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Species of ^Mollusks from South Africa 

 and Burma," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



» These Proceedings for 1899, p. 3(56, PI. XV. 

 ^Journal de ConchyUologie, XXXVI, p. 5, PI. II. 




1901.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 143 



Februaey 19. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



February 26. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of New Bees collected by Mr. H. H. Smith in 

 Brazil, II," by T. D. A. Cockerell. 



" Note on the Odontostomidce," by Henry W. Fowler. 



" The Development of the Tympano-Eustachian Passage and 

 Associated Structures in the Common Toad, Bufo leutiginosus," 

 by Henry Fox. 



" Farther Studies on the Chromosomes of the Hemiptera heter- 

 optera," by Thomas H. Montgomery. 



Mr. C. Hart man Kuhn was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed: 




144 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



CRUSTACEA AND PYCNOGONIDA COLLECTED DUKING THE PKINCETON 

 EXPEDITION TO NORTH GREENLAND. 



BY DR. A. E. ORTMAXX. 



A preliminary but not quite complete list of the species collected 

 during the Princeton Expedition to North Greenland (Peary 

 Auxiliary Expedition, 1899) has been published in The Princeton 

 Bulletin, Vol. 11, No. 3, February, 1900, pp. 38-40 ; in the 

 same periodical. Vol. 11, No. 2, December, 1899, pp. 25-20, a list 

 of stations has been given. It seems hardly necessary to repeat this 

 list here, since under each species not only the number of the 

 station, but also the location of the latter and the depth is given. 



Most of the localities are situated on the coast of North Green- 

 land, between Cape York and Foulke Fjords (ca. 76-79° N. L. ); 

 a few are situated on the opposite side of Smith Sound (Eilesmere 

 Land, Payer Harbor) ; the rest is farther south, on the coast of 

 West Greenland (Upernavik, Waigat Channel, and Godhavn, 

 Disco Island), and the coast of Labrador (Domino Run and 

 Battle Harbor). 



Only a few expeditions have previously collected material in these 

 parts (North water of Baffin Bay, Smith Sound and Grinnell 

 Land). The following reports on Crustacea have been pub- 

 lished : 



Hayes' Expedition, 18G0-61 (see J. J. Hayes, The Open 

 Polar Sea, 1867), published by W. Stimpson: " Synopsis of the 

 Marine In\ertebrates collected by the Late Arctic Expedition 

 under Dr. J. J. Hayes. "^ 



Naves' Expedition, 1875-70, published by E J. INIiers, in G. S. 

 Nares, Narrative of a Voyage to the Polar Sea, Vol. 2, 1878, 

 Appendix 7. 



Expedition of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 connected with the Peary Expedition of 1891, published by J. E. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELrillA, 145 



Ives: " Echinoilerms and Crustaceans collected by the West 

 Greenland Expedition of 189'l."=' 



Peary Auxiliary Expedition of 189^, published by A. Ohlin : 

 Bidrag till Kaennedomen om Malakostrakfaunan i Baffin Bay och 

 Smith Sound, Lund, 1895. 



A number of species has been mentioned by Hansen from near 

 Cape York in H. J. Hansen, " Malacostraca marina Groen- 

 landiie occidentalis. ' ' ^ 



The collections described here have been made by Prof. William 

 Libbey and the writer, by means of small hand dredges and a 

 larger beim-trawl, surface and dip nets. Since the chief value of 

 the material collected lies on the zoogeographical side, I shall take 

 particular pains to give an account of the previously known facts 

 of distribution in every species. 



CRUSTACEA. 



1. Brancninecta paludosa (Mueller). 



Packard, 12ih Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr, for 1878 part 1, 1883, 

 p. 336, PI. 9, 10, figs. 1-5. 



Station 13. Payer Harbor. Ellesmere Land. Fresh- water ponds 

 (several hundred). 



Station 46. Northumberland Island. Fresh- water ponds (many 

 hundred). 



Distribution. — Finmark, Lapland, North Siberia (Taimyr), 

 Point Barrow (Alaska), Cape Krusenstern (Arctic America), 

 Labrador, Grinnell Land, North and West Greenland. 



Grinnell Land: Discovery Bay (Miers) ; North Greenland: 

 Polaris Bay (Packard). 



2, Lepidurus glacialis (Kroeyer). 



Packard, /. c, p. 31d, PI. 16, fig. 1. 



Station 46. Northumberland Island. Fresh-water ponds (46). 



Distribution. —Lapland, Novaja Semlja, Spitzbergeu, South and 

 West Greenland, Cape Krusenstern, Point Barrow. 



There are Cladocera (a fresh water Daphnia, possibly reef ispma 

 Kr., from Stations 13 and 46) and a number of marine 04raeoda 

 and Copepoda in the collection which have not yet been identified. 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1891. 



' Vidensk. Meddel. fra den naturh. Foren. i KjoebenJiavn, 1887. 



10 




146 I'ROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



3. Balanus porcatus Costa. 



Darwin, Monogr. Oirrip. Balan., 18.")4, p. 256, PI. 6, fig. 4; Weltner, 

 Arch. f. Natnrg., 1897, p. 2G7 ; Weltner, Die Cirripedien der Arktia 

 (Fauna Arctica, Vol. 1), 1900, p. 292. 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (1). 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms (8). 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms (6). 



Dktrlhuilon. — England, Denmark, Norway, Iceland, Maine, 

 Massachusetts, Novaja Semlja, Spitzl)ergen, Bear Island, East 

 and West Greenland, Grinnell Land, Lancaster Sound, Japan, 

 New Zealand and Campbell Island. Depth : to ca. 200 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land : Cape Napoleon, Franklin Pierce Bay, Richard- 

 sou Bay and Discovery Bay.* 



4. Balanus crenatus Bragui^rc. 



Darwin, /. c, p. 261, PI. 6. fig. 6 ; Weltner, I. r., 1897, d. 263 ; Weltner, 

 I. c, 190O, p. 29S. 



Station 57. Sarkak (Waigat), 9 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Mediterranean, West Indies, Cape ot Good Hope, 

 England, Scandinavia, New England coast, Spitzbergen, Kara 

 Sfta, West Greenland, Labrador, Baffin Bay, Lancaster Sound, 

 Grinnell Land, Bering Straits, North Japan. In deeper water. 



Grinnell Land: Discovery Bay (Miers, /. c, 1881). 



5. Balanus balanoides (Linne), 



Darwin, /. c, p. 2G7. PI. 7, fig. 2 ; Weltner, I. c, 1897, p. 269 ; Weltner, 

 I. c, 1900, p. 302. 



Station 3. Godhavu, Disco Islaud. Between tides (4, and 

 several broken). 



I have seen also ou the rocKs of the shores of Foulke Fjord 

 remains of a Balanvs (bases only) which may belong to this 

 species. 



Distribution. — Azores, Portugal, England, France, Norway, 

 Atlantic coast of the United States, Novaja Semlja, White Sea, 

 Bear Island, Iceland, West and North Greenland, Labrador. 

 Within tidal limits. 



North Greenland: Port Foulke (Stlmpson). 



6. Nebalia bipes (O. Fabricius). 



Kroeyer, Naturhist. Tidsskr. (2), Vol. 2, 1849, p. 436; Grube, in 

 Arch. f. Naturg., 1853, p. 162 ; Bnchbolz, Zweite deutsche Nord- 

 polfahrt. Vol. 2, 1874, p. 388. 



Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms (1). 

 * Miers, Journ. Linn. Soc. London, 15, 1881, p. 73. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Didrlbutlon, — Englaiul, Labrador, East and West Greenland, 

 North Greenland. Depth : to 150 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Cape Dudley Digges (Ohliu). 



7. Hyperia galba (Montague). 



G. O. Sars, An Account of tbe Crustacea of Norway, Vol. 1, 1895, p. 7, 

 PI. 2, 3, fig. 1. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — France, England, Sweden, Norway, Kara Sea, 

 Murman coast, Spitzbergeu, West Greenland, Point Barrow. 

 Pelagic. 



S. Euthemisto libellula (Mandt). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 13, PI. 6. fig. 1. 



Station 6. Melville Bay, surface (4). 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (1). 



Station 41. Whale Sound, surface (2). 



Station 42. Barden Bay, surface (7). 



Didrihution. — Finmark, Novaja Semlja, Spitzbergeu, Jau 

 Mayen, East, West and North Greenland, EUesmere Land, Point 

 Barrow. Pelagic. 



North Greenland: MelviDe Bay (Ives), Inglefield Gulf (Ohliu) ; 

 EUesmere Land: Cape Faraday (Stimpson). 



9. Socarnes bidenticulatus (Bate). 



Lysianassa bid. Bate, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Ser. 3, Vol. 1, 1858, 

 p. 362 ; Lys. nugax Bate, Catal. Amphip. Brit. Mus., 1H(J2, p. 65, 

 PI. 10, fig. 3 ; Anonyx hid. Miers, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Ser. 4, Vol. 

 19, 1877, p. 138 ; Socarnes ovalis Hoek, Niederl. Arcb. Zool. Suppl., 

 1881, p. 42, PI. 3, fig. 29; Soc. bid. Sars, Den Norsk. Nonlhavs Exp. 

 Crust., 1. 1885, p. 139, PL 12, fig. 1 ; Hansen, Malac. mar. Groeal. 

 occ, 1887, p. 62. 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms (2). 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms (2). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (4). 



Distribution. — Spitzbergeu, Jan Mayen, West Greenland, 

 North Greenland, EUesmere Land ; 4-160 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Cape Dudley Digges; EUesmere Land: 

 Cape Faraday (Ohlin). 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^eb., 



10. Anonyz nugaz (Phipps). 



Cancer nug. Phipps, Voy. North Pole., Append., 1774, p. 192, PI. 12 

 fig. 2 ; Li/sianassa lagena and appendiculatd Kroeyer, Dansk. Vid 

 Selsk. Afh., 7, 1838, pp. 237 and 240, PI. I, figs 1, 2; Anonyx am 

 pulla Kroeyer, Naturii. Tidssk. (2), Vol. 1, 1845, p. 57H ; An 

 lagena Bate, Catal. Amph. Brit. Miis., 1862, p. 77, PI. \i, fig. 7 ; An 

 nugax Miers, Auu. Mag. Nat. Hi-t., Ser 4, Vol. 19, 1877, p. 135 ; Ives, 

 Proc. Acad. Philad. Ie91, p. 480 ; Sars, Crust. Norway, 1895, p. 88 

 PI. 31. 



Station 45. Bardeu Bay, 10-40 fathoms (5). 



Station 47. Northumberland Island, surface (1). 



Distribution.— ^he.t\Q.n({ Islands, Norway, northeast coast of 

 North America, Labrador, Northumberland Sound, Ellesmere 

 Land, Grinuell Land, North, West and East Greenland, Spitzber- 

 gen, Franz Joseph Land, Kara Sea, North Siberia (East Taimyr 

 and Tchukchee coast), Bering Straits, Sea of Ochotsk; 2-6o8 

 fathoms. 



Ellesmere Land : Gale Point (ten miles below Caj)e Isabella) 

 (Sdmpson) ; Grinnell Land: Floeberg Beach and 83° 19' N. L. , 

 Discovery Bay (Miers); North Greenland: Murchison Sound 

 (Ohliu), McCormick Bay (Ives). 



11. Pseudalibrotus littoralis (Kroeyer). 



AUbrotus Utt. Sars, Crust. Norway, Vol. 1, 1895, p. 102, PI. 35, fig. 2. 



Station 14. Payer Harbor, Ellesmere Land, mouth of small 

 fresh- water stream (1). 



Station 42. Barden Bay, surface (2). 



Station 44. Barden Bay, sandy beach (17). 



Station 47. Northumberland Island, surface (several hundred). 



Station 53. Littleton Island, surface (2). 



The generic name Pseudalibrotus has been proposed by Stebbing,^ 



Distribution. — Finmark, Spitzbergen, Jan Mayen, East, West 

 and ISorth Greenland, Baffin Bay, Point Barrow. Surface to 100 

 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



12. Onesimus edwardsi (Kroeyer). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 105, PI. 36, fig. 1. 

 Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (3). 

 Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (2). 

 Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (4). 

 Distribution. — Kattegat, Norway, Labrador, West Greenland, 



^Atm. Mag. Nat. Jlist., Ser. 7, Vol. 5, 19u0, p. 15. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Grinnell Land, Iceland, Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen, INIurman coast, 

 Franz Joseph Land, Kara Sea, eastern part of Siberian Polar Sea ; 

 2-60 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Discovery Buy and Floeberg Beach (Miers). 



13. Byblis gaimardi (Kroeyer). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 183, PI. 64. 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (11). 



Distribution. — Kattegat, Norway, Finmark, Labrador, West 

 Greenland (northward to Disco Island), Iceland, Spitzbergen, 

 Murman coast, Kara Sea ; 2-280 fathoms. 



14. Stegocephalus inflatus Kroeyer. 

 Sars, I. c, 1S95, p. 198. PI. 69. 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms (2). 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (2). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (11). 



Station 40. (Iranville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (1). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (19). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (65). 



Station 50. Karnah (Inglefield Gulf), 30-10 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Norway, Shetland Islands, Nova Scotia, North- 

 umberland Sound, Berry Island, North, "West and East Green- 

 land, Spitzbergen, Murman coast. White Sea, Franz Joseph Laud, 

 Kara Sea, eastern part of Siberian Polar Sea ; 7-150 fathoms. 



North Greenland : Cape Dudley Digges and Murchison Sound 

 (Ohlin). 



15. Paroedicerus lynceus (^r. Sars). 



G. 0. Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 292, Pi. 103, fig. 2, PI. 104, fig. 1. 



Station 37. Saunders Island, 5 fathoms (1). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Nova Scotia, Labrador, EUesmere ijaud, North, 

 West and East Greenland, Iceland, Spitzbergen, Barents Sea, 

 Finmark, Murman coast, Kara Sea ; 2-160 fathoms. 



EUesmere Land: Cape Faraday (Ohliu) ; North Greenland: 

 Murchison Sound and Cape Dudley Digges (Ohlin), Cape York 

 (Hansen). 



16. Monoculodes borealis Boeck. 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 298, PI. 106, fig. 2. 

 Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (1). 

 Distribution. — England, Norway, Finmark, Kara Sea, Spitz- 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



bergen, East Greenland, "West Greenland (northward to the 

 Waigat); 3-100 fathoms. 



17. Pleustes panoplus (Kroeyer). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 344, PI. 121. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (3). 



Distribution. — Norway, Nova Scotia, Labrador, North, AVest 

 and East Greenland, Iceland, Jan INIayen, Spitzbergen, Novaja 

 Semlja, Murman coast, Kara Sea, Point Barrow; 4-100 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Cape Dudley Digges (Ohlin), Cape York 

 (Hansen). 



18. Paramphithoe bicuspis (Kroeyer). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 349, PI. 123, fig. 1. 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms (3). 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (4). 



Distribution. — England, France, Kattegat, Norway, Finmark, 

 Spitzbergen, Bear Island, Iceland, Labrador, West and North 

 Greenland ; 3-60 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Cape Dudley Digges (Ohhn). 



19. Acanthozone cuspidata (Lepechin). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 370, PI. 130. 



Station 45. Bardeu Bay, 10-40 fathoms (21). 



It has been suggested (Miers, Stebbing) that the species figured 

 by Buchholz^ is different from this species. But, as Hoek points 

 out,' and Koelbel confirms,* the differences of Buchholz's figure 

 from this species are due to inaccuracies in the drawing. That 

 the drawing in fig. 1 is incorrect, especially as regards the last 

 three pairs of pereiopods, is shown conclusively by the fact that 

 Buchholz gives, in fig. Ih, a correct reproduction of the last 

 pereiopod. 



Distribution. — Norway, Fiumark, Labrador, Polar Islands of 

 North America, Grinuell Land, North, West and East Greenland, 

 Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen, Murman coast. White Sea, Kara Sea, 

 Siberian Polar Sea (East Taimyr peninsula) ; 7-100 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land : Franklin Pierce Bay, Discovery Day (Miers) ; 

 North Greenland: Cape Dudley Digges (Ohlin). 



^Zweite deutscJie Nordpolfahrt, Vol. 2, 1874, p. 362, PI. 11. 



"> Mederl. Arch. Zool. Suppl, 1881, p. 48. 



• Qisterreich. Polarstat. Jan Maijen, Vol. 3,. 1886, p. 45. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PEIILADELPIirA. 151 



20. Rachotropis aculeata (Lepcchin). 

 Sars, I. <•., 1895, p. 434, PI. 149. 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms (1). 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, ;>"> fathoms (2). 



Station 27. Cape Chalou, .35 fathoms (1). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (8). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (13). 



Station 45. Bardeu Bay, 10-40 fothoms (2). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (11). 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms (4). 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Nova Scotia, Labrador, Polar Islands of North 

 America, Baffin Bay, Grinuell Laud, North Greenland, West and 

 East Greenland, Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen, Finmark, Novaja 

 Semlja, White Sea, Franz Joseph Land, Point Barrow; 3-220 

 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land : Dobbin Bay, Cape Frazer, Franklin Pierce Bay, 

 Cape Napoleon, Discovery Bay, Floeberg Beach (Miers); North 

 Greenland: Ciipe Dudley Digges and ]Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



21. Halirages fulvocinctus (M. Sars). 



G. O. Sars, /. c, 1895, p. 436, PL 154; Pherusa tricuspis Stimpson, 

 Proc. Acad. Phila., 1863, p. 139. 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms (8). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (5). 



Station 54. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Norway, Finmark, Nova Scotia, Labrador, 

 Grinnell Land. North, West and Ea.«t Greenland, Spitabergen, 

 Novaja Semlja, Mux-man coast, Kara Sea, Franz Joseph Land; 

 2-110 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Discovery Bay (Miers); North Greenland: 

 Littleton Island (Stimpson). 



22. Pontogeneia inermis (Kroeyer). 

 Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 451, PI. 159. 



Station 4. Uperuavik, 8-10 fathoms (7). 



Station 36. Saunders Island, 6 fathoms (1). 



Station 37. Saunders Island, 5 fathoms (2). 



Station 54. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (4). 



Distribution. — Norway, Labrador, East and West Greenland 

 (northward to L'"pernavik); 0-120 fathoms. ? Siberian Polar Sea 

 (see Sars). 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



23. Amphithopsis megalops (Buchholz). 



Parampliito'e mefjalopfi Buchholz, Zweite deutsch. Nordpolf., Vol. 2, 

 1874, p. 369, PI. 12 ; Hansen, Malac. mar. Groenl occ., 1887, p. 125 ; 

 AmphitJiopsis megalops Hansen, JMeddflelser om Greenland, 19, 

 1895, p. 129. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (11). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (3). 



Station 54. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (2). 



Distribution. — So far only known from East and West Green- 

 land, 2-60 fathoms. 



East Greenland: Sabine Island, Germania Harbor, Shannon 

 (Buchholz), Hecla Havn, Tasiusak (Hansen); West Greenland: 

 from Godthaab to Upernavik (Hansen). 



24. Atylus carinatus (Fabricius). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 471, Tl. 166, fig. 1. 



Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms (1). 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms (58). 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms (1). 



Station 24. Northumberland Island, 10 fathoms (1). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (1). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (3). 



Distribution. — Grinnell Land, Ellesmere Land, North, West 

 and East Greenland, Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen, Finmark, Novaja 

 Semlja, Murraan coast, Franz Joseph Land, Kara Sea, Siberian 

 Polar Sea (East Taimyr peninsula and Tchukchee coast) ; 3-250 

 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land : Discovery Bay (Miers); Ellesmere Land: Cape 

 Faraday (Ohlin); North Greenland: JNIcCormick Bay (Ives), 

 Murchison Sound (Ohlin), Cape York (Hansen). 



25. AmatMUa pinguis (Kroeycr). 



Gammarus ptinguis Kroeyer, Dansk. Vid. Selsk. Afh., Vol. 7, 1838, p. 

 252, PI. 1, fig. 5; AmaihiUa pinguis Bnchholz, I. <\, 1874, p. 353, 

 PI. 9, fig. 2 ; Boeck, Scand. and Arct. Amphip , Vol. 2, 1876, p. 411. 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms (1). 

 Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms (2). 

 Station 17. Payer Hai'bor, Ellesmere Land, 16 fathoms (4), 

 Station 49 Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (1). 

 Sars (1895, p. 490) does not think that this is a true Amathilla. 

 Distribution. — Ellesmere Land, Grinnell Land, North, West 

 and East Greenland, Spitzbergen, Kara Sea; 2-90 fathoms. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Ellesmere Land: Cape Faraday fOhlin); Grinnell Land: 82*^ 

 24' N. L. (Miers); North Greenland: Cape York (Hansen). 



26. Gammaracanthus loricatus (Sabine). 



Gammams loricatus Sabine, in Parry's Voy. Append., 1821, p. 231, PI. 

 1, fig. 7 ; Gammaracanthus loricatus Bate, Catal. Amphip. Brit. 

 Mus., 1862, p. 202, Pi. 36, fig. 2. 



Station 4. Payer Harbor, mouth of fresh- water stream (1). 



Our individual has been taken at tlie mouth of a small stream in 

 perfectly fresh water. This fact is the more interesting, since we 

 have in fresh-water lakes of Sweden, Norway, Finland and 

 Russia a slightly different form (var. laeustris Sars = relictus Sars, 

 1895, p. 494, PI, 174). Our specimen represents the typical 

 form. 



Distribution. — Kara Sea, Spitzbergen, Greenland (rare), Grm- 

 nell Land, Ellesmere Land, Polar islands of North America, Point 

 Barrow; 0-10 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Floeberg Beach (Miers); Ellesmere Land: 

 Cape Faraday (Ohlin). 



27. Gammarus locusta (Liune). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 499, PI. 1, 17G, fig. 1. 



Station 3. Godhavn, Disco Island, beach (34). 



Station 14. Payer Harbor, fresh water (24). 



Station 44. Barden Bay, beach (3). 



Station 55. Foulke Fjord, beach (22). 



Distribution. — Norway and southward to the Mediterranean 

 Sea, Labrador, Ellesmere Land, Grinnell Land, North, West and 

 East Greenland, Iceland, Spitzbergen, Barents Sea, Franz Joseph 

 Land, Kara Sea, Siberian Polar Sea (eastern part). Point Bar- 

 row; 0-5 fathoms, rarely in deeper water; sometimes pelagic. 



Ellesmere Land: Cape Faraday (Ohlin); Grinnell Land: 

 Floeberg Beach (Miers); North Greenland: Port Foulke (Stimp- 

 son), McCormick Bay (Ives). 



28. Melita dentata (Ki-oej-er). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 513, PI. 181, fig. 1. 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (2). 



Distribution. — England, Kattegat, Norway, New England coast, 

 Labrador, Polar islands of North America, West Greenland 

 (northward to Disco Island), Iceland, Spitzbergen, Novaja Semlja, 

 White Sea, Puget Sound (north Pacific) ; 2-160 fathoms. 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



29. Ischyrocerus anguipes (Kroeyer). 

 Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 588, PI. 209. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (1). 



Station 37. Saunders Island, 5 fathoms (1). 



Didrlbutlon. — Kattegat, Norway, Finmark, Grand Manan, 

 West Greenland (northward to Upernavik (Hansen) and Duck 

 Islands in IMelville Bay (OhlinV), East Greenland, Iceland, Spitz- 

 bergen, Murmau coast, White Sea, Kara Sea; 2-110 fathoms. 



30. TJnciola leucopis (Kroeyer). 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 620, PI. 222 (={,'. irrorata Hansen, I. c, 1887, p. 

 164). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (1). 



Specimens from Labrador have been recorded by Packard as U. 

 irrorata Say, which is, according to Sars, a different species, but 

 perhaps the Labrador form belongs to U. leucopis. 



Dldrihniion. — Xorway, Finmark, ? Labrador, West Greenland 

 (northward to Disco Island ), East Greenland, Spitzbergen, Barents 

 Sea, Kara Sea; 30-120 fathoms. 



31. ParadulicMa typica Boeck. 



Sars, I.e., 1895, p. 642, PI. 232, fig. 2. 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (1 c?, 2 ?). 



This species lias been recorded hitherto only from Xorway, where 

 it seems 1o be rare. The male sex has not been observed before; 

 our male differs not materially from the female, especially the 

 structure of the posterior gnathopcds is essentially the same as in 

 the female, both in shape and size. 



Sars describes the eyes as dark red ; in our specimens they are 

 white, but this is possibly due to the action of the alcohol. Length 

 of our specimens (without antenn*) : d' 7 mm., 9 6 and 7 mm. 

 (Sars gives 5 mm. for the adult female). 



Distribution. — Xorway: Hardangerfjord, 30 fathoms (Boeck 

 and Sars). 



32. .ffiginella spinosissima (Stimpson). 



ui^gina spinosissima Stirapsou, Synops. mar. Invert. Grand Manan, 

 1854, p. 44; Miers, Anu. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 4, Vol. 20. 1877; 

 Caprella spinifera Bell, Last Arctic Voy. Belcher, Vol. 2, 1855, p. 

 407, PI. 35, fig. 2 ; Caprella spinosissima Bate, Cat. Amph. Brit. 

 Mus., 1862, p. 861, PI. 57, fig. 3 ; ^gina spinifera Sars, Den Norske 

 Nordh. Exp. Crnst., 1, 1885, p. 228, PI. 18, fig. 5 ; Ives, Proc. Acad. 

 Phila., 1891, p. 481. 



Station 21. Murchison Sound, 25 fathoms (1). 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (1). 




1901,] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF rfllLADELPIIIA. 155 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (1). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (8). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (1). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (7). 



The genus uEgmella is the same as jEgina.^ JEglna echlnata 

 Boeck seems to be different from this species. 



Distribution. — Grand Manan, Polar islands of North America, 

 Grinuell Land, North, West and East Greenland, Iceland, Jan 

 Mayen, Spitzbergen, Kara Sea, Siberian Polar Sea (West and East 

 Taimyr peninsula) ; 3-300 fathoms. 



Ginnell Land: Cape Napoleon, Dobbin Bay (Miers) ; North 

 Greenland: Northumberland Island, Cape Dudley Digges (Ohlin), 

 McCorraick Bay (Ives), Cape York (Hansen). 



83. Caprella linearis (Linne). 



Maver, Flor. and Faun. Crolf von Neapol., 6 Monogr., 1882, p. 60, figs. 

 17-19 ; Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 657, PI. 236. 



Station 60. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 12-14 fathoms (18). 



Among our material are four ovigerous females, in which the 5-7 

 segments have dorsally only slight indications of tubercles; some 

 of the other individuals are quite smooth. No adult males are 

 present. 



This species differs from C. septoitrio nails, (1) in the lack of 

 tubercles on the anterior part of the body; (2) in the arm of the 

 second pair of legs, which is longer; (3) in the reddisb color 

 (they were found in red alg?e). 



Although there are no males, I believe, we have to deal here 

 with C. linearis. C. septentrionalis grows much larger, and my 

 females with eggs are small, much smaller than ovigerous females 

 of C. septentrionalis. Among the young C. septentrionalis from 

 Godhavn (about as large as my individuals of C. linearis) are no 

 adult females, and they have all a brownish color (found among 

 brown algiii). 



Distribution. — Scandinavia, England, France, Iceland, Green- 

 land, Grand Manan (Stimpson's C. lobata), St. Johns, New- 

 foundland (Ohlin). 

 34. Caprella septentrionalis Kroeyer. 



Sars, I. c, 1895, p. 659, PI. 237, fig. 1. 



Station 3. Godhavn, Disco Island, 0-1 fathom (63 jun.). 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms (6). 



•Stebbing. Challenger Amphip., 1888, p. 1,248. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Station 9. Saunder? Island, 5-10 fathoms (1). 



Station 11. jS^orthumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms (3). 



Station 37. Saunders Island, 5 fathoms (14). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (1). 



Station 57. Sarkak, Waigat, 9 fathoms (10). 



Distribution. — Denmark, Norway, Finmark, Labrador, North, 

 West and East Greenland, Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen; 2-100 

 fathoms 



North Greenland: Cape York (Hansen). 



35. Synidotea marmorata (Packard). 



Benedict, Proc. Acad. Phila., 1897, p. 392, fig. 2. 



Station 60. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 12-14 fathoms (2). 



Distribution. — St. Lawrence Gulf (Wiiiteaves), Newfoundland 

 Bank, 36-129 fathoms (Benedict); Labrador: Kynetarbuk Bay, 

 7 fathoms (Packard). 



36. Arcturus baffini (Sabine). 



A. baffini and feildeni Benedict, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, Vol. 12, 

 1898, p. 43. 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (62). 



Station 27. Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms (13). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (3). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (several hundred). 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms (1). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (109). 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms (85). 



Station 52, Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (1). 



The large amount of material at hand enables me to pronounce 

 A. baffini and feildeni vnneties of one and the same species. We 

 possess both forms, and the var. feildeni prevails for instance at 

 Station 40, and is represented at Station 49. But, besides, there 

 are many intermediate specimens in the different hauls, especially"^ 

 in No.s. 40, 49 and 51. 



Miers found his feildeni under the same conditions, associated 

 with the typical form. Benedict's and Sars' material consisted 

 only of a few individuals of each form. 



Very young individuals are always without spines, and thus 

 young individuals always belong to the var. feildeni, although their 

 mother, to whose antennre they cling, may be a true baffini. In 

 larger individuals the spine? are developed in a different dogree^ 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



and there are all intermediate stages between the strongly spinous 

 A. baffini and the ahnost smooth xL Jeildeni. 



Sars " claims that his A. tuberosits antedates Miers' A. feildeni, 

 giving 1876 as the date of publication of the former. But the 

 Arch. Math, ocj Naturvid., Vol. 2, p. 3t0, where the diagnosis of 

 A. tuberosus is printed, bears the date 1877, not 1876. Miers' A. 

 feildeni was published in the Ann. Mag. Nat. Hid., Series 4, A'^ol. 

 20, p. 14, PI. 3, fig. 1, in the year 1877; but since this volume 

 was not issued before the second half of that yeai', we may grant 

 the priority of Sars* name, although the date of 1876 is not correct. 



Distribution. — Farces, Norway, Iceland, Spitzbergen, East 

 Greenland, Davis Straits, West Greenland, North Greenland, 

 Ellesmere Laud, Grinnell Land, 5-400 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Cape York (Hansen), McCormickBay (Ives), 

 Murchison Sound (Ohlin); Ellesmere Land: Cape Faraday 

 (Ohhn), Cape Sabine (Benedict); Grinnell Land: Cape Napo- 

 leon, Dobbin Bay, Franklin Pierce Bay, Floeberg Beach (Miers). 



37. Tole libbeyi (Ortmann). 



Ortmann, Tlie Princeton University Bulletin, V^ol. 11, No. 3, February, 

 ]900, pp. 39, 40. 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (5). 



Length of body 8 mm. Rostrum about as long as the head, 

 directed obliquely upward. Head with one lateral angulation, 

 directed forward. Eyes elliptical. Segments of pereion dorsally 

 smooth, without any spines or tubercles. First segment later- 

 ally with two angulations, both of them directed obliquely forward. 

 Second and third segments with four short angulations, the ante- 

 rior and posterior subequal, the third the smallest. Fourth seg- 

 ment with two angulations, the anterior directed forward, the 

 posterior smaller and directed a little backward. Fifth, sixth and 

 seventh segments with a large anterior and a very small posterior 

 angulation. All the angulations of these segments are compara- 

 tively short. Pleon with two bluntly triangular angulations on 

 either side of a bluntly triangular central portion. Uropods 

 about as long as pleon, styliform, outer branch a little shorter than 

 inner. Flagellum of first antenna 15 articulate ; flagellum of sec- 

 ond antenna with more than 150 annulations. 



10 Den Norske Nordh. Exp. Crust., 1, 1885, p. 109. 




158 



PROCEKDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



In [the wanting tubercles of the dorsal surface and the form 

 of the lateral angulations, this species is related to the two species 

 of the genus known from the North Pa- 

 cific, and 1 he form of the pleon recalls that 

 of J. erostrata Rich. (Aleutian Islands). 

 But it differs (1) in the presence of a 

 long rostrum, (2) in the stronger develop- 

 ment of the lateral angulations of the head, 

 (3) in the slightly different angulations of 

 the second and third segments of the 

 pereion. 



The generic name Tole has been given 

 to replace Janthe Bovallius nom. prreoccup. 

 ri865 Mars, 1867 Stal). (Type, J. spe- 

 eiosa Bov. = spinosa Harg. ) 



The following key to the species of 

 Tole = Janthe may serve to express the 

 affinities of our new species: 



a'. — Pleon produced backward into two 

 large angulations, between which 

 the uropods are inserted (6). 

 a". — Pleon produced into one small me- 

 dian extension, on each side of 

 which there are incisions for the 

 insertion of the uropods. (Rostrum very short. Two lat- 

 eral angulations of the head. Segments of pereion each 

 with one median, obtuse tubercle, J. bovallii (Studer)).^'- 



East Patagonia. 

 />' , — Segments of pereion dorsally with spines or tubercles (c). 

 b". — Segments of pereion dorsally smooth (d). 

 c'. — Segments of pereion dorsally each with two subraedian, short, 

 spine-like tubercles. First segment with one, second to 

 fourth with two large angulations, fifth to seventh with 

 <me largo and one (posterior) small angulation, 



J. sjjinosa (Harger).'* 

 Nova Scotia, Baffin Bay, West Greenland. 



^^ Abh. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 1883, p. 10, Pi. 1, fig. 2. 



12 Harger, Proc. U. S. Mas., Vol. 2, 1879, p. 158, and Rep. U. 8. Fish 

 Com,m., 1880, p. 323, PI. 2, fig. 10 {Janira spinosa); Hansen, iMal. mar. 

 Groenl. ore, 1887, p. 191 ; Janthe speciosa Bovallius, Svensk. Vet. Ak. 

 JIandl., Vol. 6, No. 4, 1881, p. 4. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELnirA. 159 



c". — Segments of pereion dorsally with one median, spine-like 

 tubercle. All segments with t.vo angulations on each side, 



J. laciniata (Sars). 



West coast of Norway. 



<l'. — Head with two lateral angulations, J. trlangnlata (Rich. ).'^ 



California, 

 d". — Head with one lateral angulation (e). 



e'. — Rostrum well developed, long, J. libbeyi. 



e". — Rostrum represented only by a small median point, 



J. erostrata (Rich.).'* 

 Aleutian Islands. 



38. Munnopsis typica M. Sars.^ 



Harger, Rep. U. S. Fish Coinm. for 1878, part 6, 1880, p. 3.30, PL 2, fig. 

 11 ; Sars, Ace. Crust. Norway, Vol. 2, 1897, p. 133, Pis. 57, 58. 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms (2). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (18). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (2). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Norway, Shetland Islands, Bay of I'undy, Gulf 

 of St. Lawrence, Baffin Bay, Grinnell Land, North, West and 

 East Greenland, Iceland, Spitzbergen, Franz Josef Land, Novaja 

 Semlja, Kara Sea, Siberian Polar ^Seaj^(East Taimyr); 5-500 

 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Cape Napoleon, Cape I'Vazer (Miers) ; North 

 Greenland: Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



The Bopyridce in the collection have not yet been identified. 



39. Diastylis rathkei (Kroeyer). 



Sars, Ace. Crust. Norway, Vol. 3, 1900, p. 44, Pis. 33, 34. 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (3). 



Distribution. — Baltic Sea, Kattegat, Norway, England, Atlantic 

 coast of North America, Labrador, Baffin Bay, North and Wast 

 Greenland, Barents Sea, Franz Josef Land, Kara Sea, Siberian 

 Polar Sea (mouth of Jenesei, East Taimyr, Tchukchee coast) ; to 

 400 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Murchison .-Sound (Ohlin). 



40. Diastylis goodsiri (Bell). 

 Sars, l. c, 1900, p. 54, PI. 41. 



Station 18. Foulke Fjord, 15-20 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Polar islands of North America, Baffin Bay, 



^^ Ja7ithe triangulata Kichardson, Proc. U. S. Mas., Vol. 21, 1899, p. 857. 

 ^* Janthe erostrata Richardson, ibid., p. 858, fig. 30. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



North and West Greenland, Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen, Barents Sea, 

 Kara Sea, Siberian Polar Sea (East Taimyr and Tchukchee coast) ; 

 to 80 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



41. Diastylis scorpioides (Lepcchin). 



Sars, I. c, 1900, p. 58, PI. 44. 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (1). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (1). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (3). 



Distrihuiion. — Finmaik, Lofoten Islands, White Sea, Kara Sea, 

 Jan Mayen, West and North Greenland, West coast of Baffin Bay ; 

 to 200 fathoms. 



North Greenland: Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



42. Campylaspis rubicunda (LDjeborg). 

 Sars, I. c, 1900, p. 84, Pis. 56, 57. 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (1 &, 1 ?). 



Distrihuiion. — Kattegat, Norway, Atlantic coast of North 

 America, West Greenland (Holsteinborg and Kekertak) ; to 70 

 fathoms. 



43. Mysis oculata (0. Fabricius). 



Sars, Moiiogr. Mysider, Vol. 3, 1879, p. 69, PI. 31. 



Station 2. Godhavn, Disco Island, 8 fathoms (1). 



Station 17. Payer Harbor, Ellesmere Land, 16 fathoms (3). 



Station 24. Northumberland Island, 10 fathoms (1). 



Station 36. Saunders Island, 6 fathoms (3). 



Station 37. maunders Island, 5 fathoms (1). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (2). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (56). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (3). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Labrador, Grinuell Land, North, West and East 

 Greenland, Iceland, Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen, Finmark, Kara 

 Sea, Siberian Polar Sea (Tchukchee coast) ; 2-30 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Cape Napoleon (Miers); North Greenland: 

 Port Foulko (Stimpson), Murchison Sound and luglefield Gulf 

 (Ohlin). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



44. Pandalus borealis Krooyor. 



Krocyer, Natiirlnst. Tidsskr., VoL 2, 1839, p. 251; ihid. (2), VoL 1, 

 1845, p. 116 ; Smith, Trans. Conoect. Ac, Vol. 5, 1879, p. 86 ; Hoek, 

 NiederL Arch. Zool. Snppl., 1881, p. 21 ; Doflein, Dekap. Krebs. 

 arkt. Meere. (Fauna Arctica, Vol. 1, part 2), 1900, p. 321. 



Statiou 59. Kudlisat, Waigat, 15-30 fathoms ('8). 



Distribtdion. — Massachusetts to Nova Scotia, West Greenland 

 (northward to Umenak), Norway, Barents Sea, White Sea, Spitz - 

 bergen, Franz Josef Laud, Bering Sea; to 260 fathoms. 



45. Spirontocaris pMppsi (Krocyer). 



Hipiiolyte phippsi Smith, Trans. Conn. Ac. Vol. 5, 1S79, p. 73 ; Han- 

 sen, Malae. Groenl. occ, 1887, p. 43 ; Doflein, I. c, 1900, p. 332. 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms (15). 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms (1). 



Statiou 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (2). 



Station 27. Cape Chalou, 35 fathoms (1). 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (3). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (5). 



Statiou 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (16). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (1). 



Statiou 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (3). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (1). 



Station 54. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (2). 



Statiou 60. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 12-14 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Norway, Sweden, Massachusetts Bay to Labra- 

 dor, Grinnell Land, North, West and East Greenland, Spitzber- 

 gen, Franz Joseph Laud, Siberian Polar Sea (Tchukchee coast). 

 Point Barrow, Bering Sea, Ochotsk Sea, North Japan; 2-125 

 fathoms. 



Grinnell Laud: Cape Frazer, Franklin Pierce Bay, Discovery 

 Bay (Miers); North Greenland: Port Foulke (Stimpson), Cape 

 Dudley Digges, Northumberland Island, Inglefield Gulf, Murchi- 

 son Sound (Ohlin). 



46. Spirontocaris spinus (Sowerby). 



Hippolyte soiccrlyi Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., Vol. 2, 1837. p. 

 3«0 ; H. spinns Smith, I. c, 1879, p. 68; Doflein, I. c, 1900, p. 332. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (2). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (1). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (2). 



Statiou 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (1). 



11 




162 FROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms (1). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (1). 



Distribution. — Scotland, Norway, ^Massachusetts Bay to Labra- 

 dor, Grinnell Land, North and "West Greenland, Jan Mayen, 

 Spitzbergen, Bering Straits, Point Barrow; 2-240 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Discovery Bay (Miersj ; North Greenland: 

 Northumberland Island, Inglefield Gulf, ]Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



47. Spirontocaris gaimardi (Milne-Edwards). 



Hippolyte r/aimardi 3Iilrie-Eiiwards, Hist. Xat. Crust., Vol. 2, 1837, p. 

 378 ; Smith, I. c, 1879, p. 67 ; Doflein, I. c, 19U0, p. 330. 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms (18). 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms (3). 



Station 36. Saunders Island, 6 fathoms (4). 



Station 37. Saunders Island, 5 fathoms (1). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (7). 



Station 54. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (47). 



Distribution. — Baltic Sea, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Scot- 

 land, Massachusetts Bay to Labrador, Polar islands of North 

 America, Grinnell Land, North and West Greenland, Iceland, 

 Jan ]Mayen, Spitzbergen, Novaja Semlja, Kara Sea, Tchukchee 

 coast. Point Barrow, Bering Sea ; 2-250 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Franklin Pierce Bay (^Nliers); North Green- 

 land: Port Foulke (Stimpson), Inglefield Gulf (Ohlin). 



48. Spirontocaris groenlandica (Fabricius). 



Hippolyte groenlandica Smith, I. c, 1879, p. 85, PI. lu, fig. 2 ; Doflein, 

 I. c, 1900, p. 336. 



Station 4. LTpei-navik, 8-10 fathoms (11). 



Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms (1). 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms (1). 



Station 18. Foulke Fjord, 15-20 fathoms (1). 



Station 21. Murchison Sound, 25 fathoms (5). 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (19). 



Station 27. Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms (20). 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (23). 



Station 37. Saunders Island, 5 fathoms (3). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (2). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (24). 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms (1). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (8). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Station 50. Karuah, oO-40 fathoms (4). 



Station 54. Foiilke Fjord, 5 fathoms (23). 



Distribution. — Norway, Massachusetts to Labrador, Polar islands 

 of North America, Griuuell Laud, North, West and East Green- 

 land, Tchukchee coast, Bering Sea, Kamchatka, Puget Sound; 

 2-200 fathoms. 



' Gi'innell Land: Franklin Pierce Bay, Dumbell Bay (Miers); 

 North Greenland: Cape Dudley Digges, Northumberland Island, 

 Murchison Sound, Inglefield Gulf (Ohliu). 



49. Spirontocaris polaris (Sabine). 



Uippolyte polar is Smith, I. c , 1879, p. 80, PI. 11, figs. 1-4 ; H. polaris 

 and borealis Doflein, I. c, 1900, pp. 334, 335. 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms (35). 



Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms (15). 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (4). 



Station 21. Mui'chison Sound, 25 fathoms (3). 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (10). 



Station 27. Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms (9). 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (51). 



Station 32 Foulke Fjord, 14 fathoms (1). 



Station 37. Saunders Island, 5 fathoms (5). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (21). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (33). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (2). 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms (4). 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms (4). 



Station 54. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (37). 



Distribution. — Sweden, Norway, Cape Cod to Labrador, Polar 

 islands of North America, Grinnell Land, North, West and East 

 Greenland, Jan Mayen, Spitzbergen, Bear Island, Franz Joseph 

 Land, north of Bering Straits; 2-260 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Dobbin Bay, Franklin Pierce Bay, Cape 

 Napoleon, Discovery Bay (Miers); North Greenland: Littleton 

 Island, Port Foulke (Stimpson), Cape Dudley Digges, Northum- 

 berland Island, Murchi-sou Sound, Inglefield Gulf (Ohliu). 



50. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) boreas (Phipps). 



Ortmann, Proc. Acad. Phila., 1895, p. 178 ; D-)flein, I. c, 1900, p. 

 323. 

 Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms (7). 



Station 21. Murchison Sound, 5 fathoms (1). 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (6). 



Station 27. Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms (6). 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, 7-25 fathoms (11). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (2), 



Stalion 40. Granville Bay , 20-30 fathoms (21). 



Station 45. Bardeu Bay, 10-40 fathoms (3). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 5-20 fathoms (10). 



Stalion 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms fO ). 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms (10). 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (8). 



Station 64. Foulke Fjord, 5 fathoms (2). 



Distribution. — -Norway, Massachusetts to Labrador, Polar islands 

 of North America, Grinnell Land, North, West and East Green- 

 land, Iceland, Jan ]\Iayen, Spitzbergeu, Novaja Semlja, Franz 

 Joseph Land, Tchukchee coast. Point Barrow, Bering Straits; 

 4-200 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land: Franklin Pierce Bay, Cape Napoleon, Discov- 

 ery Bay (Miers) ; North Greenland: Littleton Island, Port Foulke 

 (Stimpson), Cape Dudley Digges, Northumberland Island, Mur- 

 chison Sound (Ohlin). 



51. Nectocrangon lar (Owen). 



Ortmann, I. c, 1895, p. 181 ; Doflein, I. c, 1900, p. 327. 



Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms (3). 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms (2). 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms (4). 



•Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (1). 



Station 27. Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms (4). 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (5). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (20;. 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (1). 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms (1). 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms. (2). 



Distribution. — Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, Labrador, East 

 Greenland (Hecla Havu, 70° 11' N. L., Hansen, 1895, p. 125), 

 AVest Greenland, North Greenland, Point Barrow, Bering Sea, 

 Tchukchee coast; 4-120 fathoms. 



North Greenland : Inglefield Gulf (Ohlin). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 165 



52. Sabinea septemcarinata (Sabine). 



Ortmanu, /. c, 1895, p. 188; Doflein, l c, 1900, p. 328. 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms (1). 



Station 18. Fonlke Fjord, 15-20 fathoms (1). 



Station 89. Granville Bay, 80-40 fathoms (13). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (65). 



Station 48. Bardeu Bay, 20-25 fathoms (1). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (18). 



Station 50. Karnah, 80-40 fathoms (6). 



Distribution. — Norway, Massachusetts Bay to Labrador, Grin- 

 nell Land, North and West Greenland, Iceland, Spitzbergen, 

 Novaja Semlja, Kara Sea, Siberian Polar Sea (East Taimyr 

 peninsula and Tchukchee coast); 5-160 fathoms. 



Grinuell Land : Dobbin Bay, Cape Napoleon, Disco veiy Bay 

 (Miers) ; North Greenland: Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



53, Eupagurus pubescens (Kroej-er). 



Smith, /. c, 1879, p. 47; Doflein, I. c, 1900, p. oil. 



Station 61. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 0-1 fathom (1). 



Distribution — Northeast America: New Jersey to Labrador; 

 Greenland (west coast northward to Umenak, ca. 71° N. L. ), 

 North Europe, Spitzbergen, Murman coast, \yhite Sea, Bering 

 Sea, Kamchatka, Fuget Sound. 



54. Hyas araneus (Linne). 



Rathbun, Proc. U. S. Mus., Vol. 16, 1893, p. 67; Doflein, I. c, 1900, 

 p. 352. 



Station 1. Domino Run, Labrador, 0-1 fathom (1). 



Station 60. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 12-14 fathoms (3). 



Distribution. — Northern Europe to Novaja Semlja and Spilz- 

 bergen, Iceland; Northeast America: Cape Cod to Labrador; West 

 Greenland (northward to Godhavu) ; Tchukchee coast, Ochotsk 

 Sea; 0-100 fathoms. 



PYONOaONIDA. 



1. Nymphon longitarse Kroeyer. 



Wilson, Trans. Connect. Acad., Vol. 5, 1878, p. 19, PI. 7, fig. 2; Wil- 

 son, Rep. U. S. Fish Comiu. for 1878, part 6, 1880, p. 4S9, PI. 6, figs. 

 30, 31 ; Hoek, Challenger Pvcnogon. 3, 1831, p. 20; Hoek, Niederl. 

 Arch. Zool. Suppl., 1881, p. 15, PI. 1, figs. 22, 23. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (2 d"). 

 Station 40. GranviUe Bay, 20-30 fathoms (2 ?). 

 Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms (1 cf). 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Didribidion. — Massachusetts, ]Maine, Nova Scotia, Greenland, 

 Norway, Novaja Semlja. Point Barrow; 2-220 fathoms. 



2. Nymphon grossipes (Linn6). 



Wilson, I. c, 1878, p. 20, PI. 7, fig. 1 ; Wilson, J. c, 1880, p. 491, PI. 

 6, figs. 32-37, PI. 7, fig. 42 ; Hoek, Chall., 1881, p. 20, p. 44, PI. 3, 

 figs. 9-12, PI. 4, fig. 1 ; Hoek, Nied. Arch., 1881, p. 12, PI. 1, figs. 

 17-21. 



Station 26. Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms (1 ?). 



Station 27. Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms (1 juu.). 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (2 cJ, 1 jun.). 



Station 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms (1 9). 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, 15-20 fathoms (2 juu.). 



Distribufio)i. — North Sea, Norway, Long Island Sound to St. 

 Lawrence Gulf, Polar islands of North America, North Greenland, 

 East Greenland (North Shannon), Spitzbergen, Barents Sea, 

 Novaja Semlja, Point Barrow ; 0-540 fathoms. 



Norlh Greenland: Northumberland Island (Ohliu). 



3. Nymphon hirtipes Bell. 



iV. hirtipes Wilson, I. c, 1878, p. 22, PI. 5, fig. 2, PI. 6, fig. 2 ; Hoek, 

 Chall., 1881, p. 17 ; Hoek, Nied. Arch., 1881, p. 6, PI. 1, figs. 1-8 ; 

 iV. hirtum Wilson, /. c, 1880, p. 495, PI. 7, figs. 38, 41. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms (2 cf, 1 ?, 3 jun.). 



Distribution. — Massachusetts, Nova Scotia, Polar islands of 

 North America (NorJmmberland Sound), Griunell Lard, North 

 Greenland, East Greenland, Spitzbergen, Barents Sea; 10-299 

 fathoms. 



Grinnell Land : Franklin Pierce Bay, Discovery Bay, Floeberg 

 Beach (Miers); North Greenland : Inglefield Gulf (Ohlin). 



4. Nymphon serratum G. O. Sars. 



Sars, Avch. Math, og Natnrv.. Vol. 4. 1879, p. 471 ; Hoek, Nied. Arch., 

 1881, p. 10, PI. 1, figs. 24, 28, PI. 2, fig. 29. 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (2 d^). 



Distribution. — Spitzbergen Sea, 146-180 fathoms (Sars); 



Barents Sea, 160 fathoms (Hoek). 



5. Pallene discoidea Kroeyer. 



PseudopaUotc Jiispida and discoidea Wilson, I. c, 1878, pp. 10, 12, PI. 

 3, figs. 1, 2 ; Wilson, I. c., 1880, pp. 478, 479, PI. 2, figs. 9, 10 ; Pallene 

 discoidea and hispida Hoek, Cball., 1881, p. 31. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 80-40 fathoms (1 d, 1 9). 

 Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms (1 9). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



The ovigerous male of Station 39 agrees iu all esseutial points 

 with P. hispida as figured by Wilson. The two females, however, 

 show the chelaj of the mandibles (antennte) as figured by Wilson 

 for P. discoldea (1880, fig. 106), and the rostrum is more obtuse 

 than in the male, which is another diagnostic character assigned 

 to discoldea. In the shape of the end of the abdomen I do not 

 find any difference; all three individuals have it obtuse, and not 

 poiuted and slightly bifid. 



In my opinion P. hispida is not different from discoldea, but 

 represents merely the male sex. 



Distribution. — Maine, Grand JNlanau (12-55 fathoms), South 

 Greenland, North Norway, Lapland, White Sea. 



In conclusion I add here a list of species recorded pi'eviously 

 from the northern parts of Baffin Bay and Smith Sound, but not 

 found by our expedition iu the same latitudes: 



1. Balanus crenatus Brug. Grinnell Land: Discovery Bay 



(Miers, Jouni. Linn. Soc. ZooL, Vol. 15, 1881, p. 73). 



2. Balanus balanoldes (L. ). Port Foulke (Stimpson) (possibly 



seen by the present writer at Foulke Fjord). 



3. Orchomenella nilnuta {Hr.). North Greenland: Cape Dudley 



Digges, and Ellesmere Laud: Cape Faraday (Ohlin). 



4. Anonyx affinls Ohl. Cape Dudley Digges (Ohlin). 



5. Hoplonyx cicada (Fabr. ) = Anomjx gulosus Kr. Grinnell 



Land: Discovery Bay (Miers). 



6. Ampellsca eschrlchtl 'Kr. North Greenland: Murchison Sound 



(Ohlin). 



7. Haploops tublcola Lilj. North Greenland: Cape Dudley 



Digges (Ohlin). 



8. Acanthostephela malmgreni (Goes). Murchison Sound 



(Ohlin). 



9. Euslrus cuspldatus K.Y. Grinnell Land: Franklin Pierce 



Bay (Miers). 



10. Ap her usa glacial Is (Hans.). North Greenland: Wolstenholme 



Sound (Ohlin). 



11. Paratylus smlttl (Goes). Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



12. Amathila homarl (Fabr.). North Greenland Cape Dudley 



Digges, Northumberland Island; Ellesmere Land: Cape 

 Faraday (Ohlin). 



13. Neohela momtrosa (Boeck). North Greenland: Murchison 



Sound (Ohlin). 



14. Caprella monocera Sars. Cape Dudley Digges (Ohlin). 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



15. Glyptonoius sablnei (Kr. ) Cape York (Hansen), Cape 



Dudley Digges and Cape Faraday (Olilin). 



16. Diastylis spinulosa Hell. Murchison Sound (Ohlin). 



17. JVymphon stroerni Kr. Grinnell Land: Cape Frazer and 



Floeberg Beach (Miers). 



18. Nymphon robudum Bell. Grinnell Land: Discovery Bay 



(Miers, Joxirn. Linn. Soc, Vol. 15, 1881, p. 72). 




1901.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



ECHINODERMS COLLECTED OFF THE WEST COAST OF GREENLAND BY 

 THE PRINCETON ARCTIC EXPEDITION OF 1899. 



BY WALTER M. RANKIN. 



The following Echinoderms were collected by the Princeton 

 Arctic Expedition of 1899. 



In compiling the list I have eudeavored to give, in addition to 

 the identification of the species, some notes on the specimens — 

 their number, locality and peculiarities, together with a tabulation 

 of the distribution of the species in area and depth. 



I have not attempted to give a complete synonomy of the species, 

 but merely to quote the original author and, ordinarily, the refer- 

 ence where a more complete description or figure of the species may 

 be found. 



HOLOTHURIOIDE A . 



1. Cucumaria frondosa (Gunn.). 



Holothuria frondosa Gunnerus, Abhand. der Kgl. Schwed. Akad. der 



Wissenschaften, p. 115, PL IV, figs. 1, 2, 1767. 

 Cucumaria frondosa Forbes, History of British Starfishes, p. 209, 

 1841. 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 1 spec- 

 imen. 



A single small specimen, 47 mm. long, 34 mm. in diameter as 

 contracted in alcohol. One tentacle, the ventral, is dark colored; 

 the others light. 



Distribution. — Florida reefs (dredged), Massachusetts to Labra- 

 dor, Baffin's Bay (Nares Ex.), Assistance Bay (Penny's voyage), 

 Iceland, North Cape, Spitzbergen, Kara Sea, north coast of Alaska. 

 " The form discovered by Ayres at San Francisco may perhaps 

 be C. ealifornicq, a closely alhed species " (Ludwig). 



Ludwig, in Fauna Arctica, Bd. 1, pp. 142, 143 (1900), gives 

 the distribution as a two-thirds circurapolar, the species being still 

 unrepresented in the north Asian region, from 70° E. L. to 170° 

 AV. L. North and south its extreme ])oint3 of distril)utiou are. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Florida reefs, 24° N. L. on the west, and Plymouth, England, 



50° X. L. on the east of the Atlantic, to Spitzbergeu, 80° N. L. 



Its vertical distribution ranges from to 220 fathoms on the 



west coast of Iceland. The usual depth is from 3 to 30 fathoms. 



2. Myriotrochus rinkii Steeiistmp. 



3IyriotrochiLS rinkii Steeustrup, Videnskabelige Meddelelser Xaturhist. 

 Forening i Kjobenbavn, pp. 55-60, PI. Ill, figs. 7-10, 1851 ; Theel, 

 Challenger Reports, Zoology, Vol. XIV, Holothuria, p. 37, 1886. 



Station 9 Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-45 fathoms. 32 specimens. 



Distribution. — West coast of Greenland to Discovery Bay 

 (Nares Ex.), Assistance Bay (Penny's voyage); east coast of 

 Greenland, Spitzbergen, Barents Sea, Nova Zembla, Kara Sea, 

 Bering Sea, Point Barrow. 



As Cucumaria frondosa, this also is a two-thirds circum[)olar 

 form, being absent in the north Asian region, 71° E. L. to 170° 

 W. L., and in the North American, 156° W. L. to 95° W. L. 



It is a strictly Arctic form, its extreme points of distribution 

 north and south being 81° 41' N. (Discovery Bay) to 57° N. 

 (Skager Rak). 



It belongs principally to the littoral region, but has been dredged 

 at a dej)th of 360 fathoms, 



ECHINOIDEA. 



3. Strongylocentrotus drbbacliiensis (O. F. Miiller). 



Echinus drobacMensis O. F. IMiiller, Zool. Dan. Prodr., p. 235, 1776. 

 Stronfjylocentrotus drbhacMensis A. Agassiz, Revision of the Echini, 

 111. Cat. Mus. Comp. Zool. Cambridge, pp. 162-267, 1872. 



Station 17. Payer Harbor, Cape Sabine, 16 fathoms, 2 

 specimens. 



Station 26. South of Cape Alexander, 27 fathoms. 2 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, lower narrows, 7-25 fathoms. 7 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 34. Cape York, 10 fathoms. 3 specimens. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 8 specimens. 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 1 spec- 

 imen. 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms. 11 specimens. 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms. 30 specimens. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA. 171 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms. 4 specimens. 



Station 61. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 1 fathom. 83 specimens. 



The series of 101 specimens, ranging from 5 mm. to 58 mm. in 

 <liameter, shows considerable variation among themselves and from 

 the typical form, as has been noted by Duncan antl Sladen in 

 their report on the Echinoderms of the Nares Expedition.^ The 

 height in two specimens of approximately the same diameter may 

 differ by as much as 10 mm. — as 55 : 35 and 52 : 25 mm. 



The specimens on the whole are more depressed than specimens 

 of similar size collected on the Massachusetts coast, and the spines 

 are shorter and less numerous, the cleaned test showing only com- 

 paratively few large tubercles. 



Distribution. — IS^umerous stations on the west coast of Green- 

 land: Discovery Bay (jSTares Ex.), Assistance Bay (Penny's 

 voyage) ; Great Britain, Scandinavia, Spitzbergen, Xova Zembla, 

 north coast of Siberia, Ochotsk Sea, Kamschatka, Bering 

 Strait. 



An Arctic and Sub- Arctic form, extending as far south on the 

 North American coast as off Chesapeake Bay. A circumpolar 

 form, being found both in the north Atlantic and north Pacific. 

 Its extreme depth is given by YerriU as 640 fathoms. 



ASTEROIDEA. 

 4. Asterias polaris (M. andT.). 



Asteracnnthion polaris Miiller and Troschel, System der Asterideu, p. 



16, 1842. 

 Asterias polaris Yerrill, Proc. Boston Society Natural History, X, p. 



356, 1866. 



Station 1, Domino Run, Labrador, 1 fathom. 4 specimens (3 

 dry). 



Station 2. Godhavu, Discc Island, 8 fathoms. 2 specimens 

 (juventi). 



Station 61. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 1 fathom. 12 specimens 

 (4 dry). 



A six- armed species. The size of the sixteen adult specimens 

 averages from 100-200 mm. in total diameter. The smallest of the 

 young specimens has a radius of 10 mm. Four of its six arms are 

 in the form of buds. 



Distribution. — Greenland, Torske Beach, and at 65° N., 



^Annals of Natural History (IV), Vol. XX, p. 453, 1877. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



twenty-six miles from the coast, at a depth of 30 fathoms (Nares 

 Ex. ) ; Labi'ador, Gulf of St. Lawrence. 



5. Asterias groenlandica (Lutkcn). 



Asteracanthio/i fjr(£idandica Liitken, Vid. Medclel. N. Forening i 



Kjobenhavn, p. 29, 1^57. 

 Asterias grcenlandica Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 142, 



1863. 



Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms. 5 specimens 

 (2juv.). 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, lO-lo fathoms. 11 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 21. ]\Iuvchison Sound, 25 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 27. Off Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms. 2 specimens. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, lower narrows, 7-25 fathoms. 1 speci- 

 men. 



Station 32. Foulke Fjord, 14 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms. 3 specimens. 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms. 2 specimens. 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms. 7 specimens 

 (2juv.). 



The largest of this five-armed species has a radius of 37 mm. 

 Among those from Stations 9 and 52 are very young forms, the 

 smallest measuring only 5 mm. in total diameter. 



Distribution. — West coast of Greenland and extending north to 



Discovery and Assistance Bays, Labradoi-, Gulf of St. Lawrence, 



Grand ^Nlauan, Spilzbergen and Nova Zembla.^ 



6. Asterias gunneri Danielssen and Korcn. 



Asterias gunneri Danielssea and Koren, Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedi- 

 tion, Asteroidea, p. 7, Pis. II, III, figs. 8, 9, 1884. 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 1 

 specimen. 



This single fine specimen corresponds very closely to the descrip- 

 tion given by Danielssen and Koren. The size is slightly larger 

 than the type, diam. 360:330 mm., diam. of disk 54:52 mm. 

 There are some minor differences, as follows : The five rows of spines 

 on aboral surface of the rays are not so regularly arranged and 

 the middle ones are not higher than the lateral. At the sides of 



"^ Challcnfjer Report. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



the rays the spines seem to be less regular in their arrangement; 

 both the dorso- and ventral-laterals are about thirty in number. 

 The rectiform pedicellaritc are similar to the type (I. c, PI. IT, figs. 

 3 and 4). Those near the dorsal spines are smaller than those 

 round the lateral. The cruciform pedicel larite, however, seem to 

 differ, being somewhat longer than in the type, and the jaws more 

 convex on their outer surfaces. At the biting tip are two very 

 large, sharj:* teeth and smaller, scattered teeth are on the concave 

 surface. These cruciform i^edicellarise form very prominent 

 clusters around the two lateral rows of spines. 



The sjDCcies was found originally b}^ its authors in Advent Bay, 

 Spitzbergen, at a depth of 60 fathoms, and they also report two 

 specimens from the Kara Sea as a variety of A. gunnerl. 



This is the first recorded specimen from Greenland waters. The 

 color in the living state corresponds. Dr. Ortmann tells me, to the 

 description given by Danielssen and Keren, " deep red on the 

 aboral surface, Avhity-yellow on the oral surface." The present 

 alcoholic specimen is 3'ellowish -brown. 

 7. Stichaster albulus (Stimpson). 



Astcracnntltion albulus Stimpson, Synopsis 3Iarine Invertebrates of 



Grand Manan, p. 14, PL XIV, fig. 5, 1853. 

 Stichaster albulus Verrill, Proc. Boston. Soc. Nat. Hist., X, p. 351, 



1866. 



Station 4. Upernavik, 8-10 fathoms. 2 specimens. 



Station 9. Saunders Island, 5-10 fathoms. 4 specimens. 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms. 5 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 18. Foulke Fjord, 15-20 fathoms. 10 specimens. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, lower narrows, 7-25 fathoms. 3 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms. 2 specimens. 



All the specimens have the characteristic three short and three 

 long arms. Largest specimen: radius of long arm 24.5 mm., of 

 short arm 0.0 mm. 



Distribution. — Eastport, Me., and Grand Manan; south of 

 Halifax, 85 fathoms;^ Greenland, Godhavn and Holsteinborg 

 (Valorous Ex.), Port Foulke (Hayes Ex.), Franklin Pierce Bay 

 (Nares Ex.), Iceland, Spitzbergen, Nova Zembla. 



^ Challenger Report. 




174 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



An Arctic aud Sub- Arctic species. Range, from 3 to 192 

 fathoms. 



8. Cribrella oculata (Linck). 



Peatadactiilofjuster oculatus Linck, De Stellis Marinis, p. 35, PI. 



XXXVi, No. 6-2. 1773. 

 Cribrella oculata Forbes, Hist. Brif. Starfishe=!, p. 100. 1841. 

 Cribrella sanfjuinolenta Liitken. Vid. Meddel. X. Forening i Kjobea- 



havn, p. 31, 1857. 



Station 27. Off Cape Clialon, 35 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 1 specimen (dry). 



Station 45. Bardeu Bay, 10-40 fathoms. 2 specimens. 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 

 2 specimens. 



The specimens are small (from 17 to 45 mm. in diameter), except 

 the two from Station 45. These are 120 mm. in diameter, and 

 in addition to their size vary from the other specimens in the 

 greater length of the spines, the marked openness of the mesh of 

 the aboral surface, and the irregular arrangement of the spines on 

 the oral surface of the rays. In all these points, however, the 

 specimens closely I'esemble examples from Eastport, Me., which 1 

 have examined in the Peabody Museum at New Haven. 



Distribution. — A Avidely distributed Arctic and Sub- Arctic 

 species. (?)Circumpolar. 



From Nantucket shoals north, Labrador, Hall Island, Green- 

 land (Valorous Ex.), Iceland, British coasts, Scandinavia, Spitz- 

 bergen. Nova Zembla, White Sea, off north coast of Asia 

 (Brandt), Java (von Martens). 



9. Crossaster papposus (Linck). 



Triskaidecuctis papposa Linck, De Stellis Marinis, p. 43, 1773. 

 Crossaster papposus Miiller and Troschel, System der Asteriden, p. 26, 



1842. 

 Crossaster j^apposus Sladen, Challenger Reports, Asteroidea, p. 444, 



1889. 

 Solaster papposa Forhei^, British Starfishes, p. 112, 1841. 

 Solaster papposa Uanielssen aud Koren, Den Norske Xordhavs-Expedi- 



tion, Asteroidea, p. 48, 1884. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 3 specimens. 



Station 49. Olriks Bay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 2 spec- 

 imens. 



Of the specimens collected all are 10-rayed, thus differing from 

 the typical form which has 11-13 rays. 



The two specimens from Station 49 have an extreme diameter of 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



80 and 68 mm. respectively, and the proportion of the radii is as 

 two to one. The rays are broader at the base and more tapering 

 than the typical form. As to the adambulacral armature, there 

 are five or six spines in each plate of the longitudinal series and 

 six in the transverse; the former ai-e somewhat webbed at the base. 



From Station 39 one specimen resembles very closely the larger 

 one from Station 49. The other two (60 and 80 mm. in diameter 

 respectively) have longer, more slender and less tapering rays; in 

 this respect coming closer to the typical C. papposus, the proportions 

 of the radii being about 2^-2^ to 1. The longitudinal series of 

 adambulacral plates have each three or four spines to a plate, and 

 the transverse series five spines. In all five specimens the paxillce 

 have longer, more numerous and more divergent spines than does 

 the typical form, 



Danielssen and Koren {I. c, p. 44) discuss the relation of Sohis- 

 ter affinis (Brandt) to Crossaster (Solaster) pap)posus, and Sladen 

 (/. c, p. 4i) describes a form from the Faroe Islands which he 

 calls variety septentrionalis of C. pap)po-su!^, while Duncan and 

 Sladen, in the report of the Echinoderms of the Nares Expedition,^ 

 mention the variations from the type form in their specimens of C. 

 papp)osus. The present specimens agree with these cited descriptions 

 in the number of the rays (10), but otherwise there are minor 

 deviations from them all, 1 am inclined to think that all are 

 merely local varieties of an extremely variable species. 



Distribution. — Widely distributed over the whole north area of 

 the Atlantic; Arctic and Sub- Arctic: Massachusetts, Newfound- 

 land, Discovery Bay and Franklin Pierce Bay (Nares Ex.), 

 Assistance Bay (Penny's voyage), Iceland, British and north 

 French coasts, Faroe Islands, Scandinavia, Finmark, Murman 

 coast, Spitzbergen, Barents Sea, Nova Zembla, (?) Bering Straits 

 (C. affinis Brandt). 



10. Solaster endeca (Retzius). 



Asterias endeca Retzius, K. Yet. Akad. Haudl. Stockholm, IV, p. 237, 



1783. 

 Solaster endeca Forbes, ]\Iem. Werner Soc, VIII, p. 121, 1839. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



A single nine-rayed specimen, diameter 30 mm. 



Distribution. — North coast of North America, Greenland 



(dredged at 30 fathoms) (Nares Ex), Iceland, coast of Great 



* Annals of Nat. Hist. (4), XX, p. 457, 1877. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Britain, Faroe Islands, Norway, Spitzbergeu, IMurman coast. A 

 variety, decemradiata, Avith ten rays at Sitka (Brandt). 



11. Pteraster militaris (O. F. Muller). 



Asterius militaris O. F. Muller, Zool. Dau. Prorlr., p. 234, 17T6. 

 Pteraster militaris Muller and Troschel, Syst. der Asteroid., SuppL, p. 

 28, 1842. 



Station o9. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms. 2 specimens. 



The specimen from Granville Bay has R. 23, r. 10. The other 

 two specimens are badly damaged. 



Distribution. — North American coast. Bay of Fuudy and south 

 to Cape Cod, west coast of Greenland, Dobbin Bay (Nares Ex.), 

 Davis Strait (Valorous Ex.), Smith Sound, British coast, Norway 

 Finmark, Spitzbergen, Nova Zembla, Kara Sea, 



OPHIUROIDEA. 



12. Ophioglypha sarsii (Lutken). 



Ophiara sarsii Liitken, Vid. Meddel. N. Foreniug i Kjobenhavn, p. 7, 



1854. 

 OpMoglypha sarsii Lyman, 111. Cat. ]\Ius. Comp. Zool. Cambridge, 



No. 1, p. 41, figs. 2, 3, 1865. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 49. OlriksBay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 3 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



Station 51, Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms. 1 specimen. 



The specimens range in size from 20 to 30 mm. disk-diameter. 



Distribution. — Arctic and Sub- Arctic, Circumpolar (Ludwig): 

 <3oast of Maine, Massachusetts Bay and off Martha's Vineyard, 

 Greenland, Discovery Bay and Hayes Point (JSares Ex.), coast of 

 Norway, Spitzbergen, Franz Josef Land, Kara Sea, Barents Sea. 

 Range in depth, 5-2941 meters (Ludwig). 



13. Ophioglypha robusta (Ayres). 



Ophiolcpis robusta Ayres, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 134, 



1851. 

 Ophiorjlypha robusta Lyman, 111. Cat. Mus. Comp. Zool. Cambridge, 



No. 1, p. 45, 1865. 

 Op/dura squamosa Liitken, Yid. Meddel., etc., p. 6, November, 1854. 



Station 11. Northumberland Island, 10-15 fathoms. 1 speci- 

 men. 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, S5 fathoms. 2 specimens. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



177 



Station 18 

 Station 21 

 Station 27 

 Station 29 

 mens. 



Station 45 

 Station 51 

 Station 52 



Foulke Fjord, 15-20 fathoms. 1 specimen. 

 Murchison Sound, 25 fathoms. 3 specimens. 

 Off Cape Chalon, 85 fathoms. 6 specimens. 

 Olriks Bay, lower narrows, 7-25 fathoms. 3 



speci- 



d specimens. 

 2 specimens. 

 5 specimens. 



Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms. 



Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms. 



Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms. 

 The specimens vary in size from 5.5 mm. to 11 mm. disk- 

 diameter. In alcohol they have a blue-gray color. Arms are 

 usually marked with lighter transverse bars. According to 

 Lyman's description the side arm-plates do not meet above until 

 about the middle of the arm. I find that in the smaller specimens 

 the side arm -plates meet nearer the disk — at about the fifth to 

 tenth dorsal arm-plate. 



Distribution. — Arctic and Sub-Arctic, Circumpolar [(Ludwig): 

 North American coast as far south as Cape Cod, Greenland, Dis- 

 covery and Franklin Pierce Bays (Nares Ex.), Godhavn and Port 

 Foulke (Hayes Ex.); Assistance Bay, 0. fascieulata (Penny's 

 voyage); "NV^ellington Channel, north of England, Faroe Islands, 

 European Arctic Ocean. 



Range in depth, 5 to 18 meters. 



14. Ophiocten sericeum (Forbes). 



Opliiura sericea Forbes, Sutherland's Jour. Voyage Baffin's Bay, Vol. 



II, App., p. ccxv, 1852. 

 Ophiocten sericeum Ljungman, Tillag. Skan. Oph. of Kong. Akad., p. 



360, 1864. 

 Opliiocten kroyeri Liitken, Lyman, 111. Cat. Mns. Comp. Zool., No. 1, 



p. 53. 18G5. 



Stat 

 Stat 

 Stat 

 Stat: 

 Stat 

 Stat: 

 Stat 

 Stat 

 Stat: 

 Stat 

 specimens. 

 12 



on 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms. 12 specimens, 

 on 18. Foulke Fjord, 15-20 fathoms. 3 specimens, 

 on 21. Murchison Sound, 25 fathoms. 2 specimens, 

 on 27. Off Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms. 4 specimens, 

 on 34. Cape York, 10 fathoms. 4 specimens, 

 on 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 199 specimens, 

 on 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms. 53 specimens, 

 on 43. Barden Bay, 20-25 fathoms. 2 specimens, 

 on 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms. 10 specimens, 

 on 49. Olnks Bay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 



181 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Station 50. Karnah, 30-40 fathoms. .30 sijeciraens. 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms. 20 specimens. 



Station 52. Robertson Bay, 5-15 fathoms. 53 specimens. 



This was by far the most numerous Oi)hiurid found by the 

 expedition, and indeed one of the most common forms brought 

 up by the dredge or trawl. The series contains individuals ranging 

 in size from 2 mm. (Station 34) to 15 ram. (Station 45), disk- 

 diameter. 



Distribution. — Arctic and Sub-Arctic: coast of Massachusetts, 

 northeast Atlantic (1,207 to 2,435 fathoms. Porcupine Ex.), 

 Greenland, Discovery Bay, Hayes Point, Franklin Pierce Bay 

 (Nares Ex.), Assistance Bay (Penny's voyage), Iceland, Jan 

 Mayen Island, Faroe Channel, Lofoten Islands, Spitzbergen, Nova 

 Zembla, Kara Sea. Range in depth, 5-4,453 meters (Ludwig). 



15. Ophiopholis aculeata Gray. 



OpMopJioliis aculeata Gray, Radiate Animals of the British Museum, 



p. 25, 1848. 

 OphiophoUs hellis Lyman, 111. Cat. Mus. Comp. Zoo)., I, p. 96, PI. I, 



figs. 4-6, 1865. 



Station 60. Battle Harbor, Labrador, 12-14 fathoms. 1 speci- 

 men. 



This widely distributed species is represented by a single small 

 specimen (3.5 mm, disk-diameter), and thus not strictly among 

 the Greenland collections. 



Distribution. — Arctic and Sub-Arctic, Circumpolar: North 

 American coast as far south as Cape Hatteras, Greenland (Nares 

 Ex., lat. ()0°), Godhavn (Hayes Ex.), British coasts, Faroe 

 Islands, Iceland, Jau Mayen Island, Si^tzbergen, Kara Sea, 

 Bering Straits. 



Range in depth, to 1,829 meters (Ludwig). 



16, Amphiura sundevalli (Mailer and Troschel). 



Opiiiolepis sundevalli Miiller and Troschel, Syst. der Asteriden, p. 93, 



1842. 

 Amphiura sundevalli Ljungman, Oph. Viveutia of K. Akad. p. 320, 



1866. 

 Amphiura Jiolbbli Liitken, Vid. Meddel., November, 1854, p. 98. 

 Amphiura holboli Lyman, 111. Cat., etc., p. 118, 1865. 



Station 27. Off Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms. 1 specimen. 

 Station 45. Barden Bay, 10-40 fathoms. 4 specimens. 

 The disk-diameter of these specimens is from 8 to 9 mm. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Distribution. — Arctic and Sub-Arctic, Circumpolar: Europeaa 

 and Arctic seas, Greenland, Franklin Pierce Bay (Nares Ex.). 

 Range in depth, 5 to 201 meters (Ludwig). 



17, Ophiacantha bidentata (Retzius). 



Asterias bkleiitata Retzius, Dissertatio, i). 33, 1305. 

 Ophiacantha spinulosa Miill. and Trosch., Syst. Aster-, p. 107, 1842. 

 Ophiacantha hidentata, Ljuugman. Oph. Viveut. of K. Akad., p. 652, 

 1871. 



Station 12. Foulke Fjord, 35 fathoms. 1 specitnen. 



Station 26. South of Cape Alexander, 2r fathoms. 2 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 27. Otf Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms. 4 specimens. 



Station 29. Olriks Bay, lower nari'ows, 7-25 fathoms. 2 speci- 

 mens. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms, 23 specimens. 



The specimens vary in size from (3 to 15 mm. disk-diameter. 



Distribution. — Arctic and Sub- Arctic : Eastport, Me.; Grand 

 Manan, Newfoundland; Greenland (Nares Expedition). Discovery 

 and Franklin Pierce Bays and Cape Eraser — the most numerous 

 Ophiurian collected by that expedition. (Duncan and Sladen con- 

 sider the Ophiura fragilis of the Parry Expedition to be this 

 species) ; Penny's voyage — Assistance Bay, Ophiocoma echinulata ; 

 Iceland, Faroe Channel, coast of Norway from Lofoten Islands to 

 North Cape, Spitzbergen, Barents Sea, Kara Sea. Dredged by 

 "Albatross" at 1,606 fathoms (2,890 meters) off the coast of 

 North Carolina, and by the " Challenger" at 1,350 fathoms, lat. 

 40° 17' N., long. 66° 48' W. 



The reported finding by Pfeffer of this specis in Bering Strait 

 is considerd by Ludwig to be doubtful. 



CRINOIDEA. 



18. Antedon esohrichti (Muller). 



Alecto eschrichti Muller, Monatsbericbt. d. k. preuss. Akad. d. Wiss., 



Berlin, p. 183, 1841. 

 Antedon eschrichti. See Carpenter, in Challenger Report ZooL, Vol. 



XXVI, p. 138, for synonomy. 



Station 26. South of Cape Alexander, 27 fathouis. 1 specimen. 

 Station 27. Off Cape Chalon, 35 fathoms. 2 specimens. 

 Station 29. Olriks Bay, lower narrows, 7-25 fathoms. 1 speci- 

 men. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 2 specimens. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms. 3 specimens. 

 Station 49. Olriks Bay, upper narrows, 15-20 fathoms. 

 1 specimen. 



Station 51. Robertson Bay, 35-40 fathoms. 6 specimens. 



19. Antedon quadrata Carpenter. 



Antedon quadrata Carpenter, Challenger Report Zool., Vol. XXVI, p. 

 149, 1888. 



Antedon celtica Duncan and Sladen, Memoir Arctic Echinoderms, Lon- 

 don, 1881, p. 75, PI. VI. 



Station 39. Granville Bay, 30-40 fathoms. 3 specimens. 



Station 40. Granville Bay, 20-30 fathoms. 2 specimens. 



Carpenter (L c, supra, pp. 136ff. ) discusses at length the species 

 of Antedon belonging to the Eschrichtl group of Comatulse, and 

 gives a complete synonomy of the two species, eschrichti and 

 quadrata. I find the differences in the material collected by this 

 expedition to be very slight; but there are five specimens from 

 Granville Bay which seem to belong to Carpenter's quadrata. 

 Dr. Ortmann tells me that in life there is a distinct difference in 

 their appearance, but this is less evident in the alcoholic material. 

 The color of quadrata is lighter and the arms have a less feathery 

 appearance, due to the slightly greater length of the arm-joints 

 and the consequently greater distance between the pinnules. The 

 character, however, of quadrata to which Carpenter gives special 

 weight — i. e. , the shorter third pinnule as compared with the second 

 — I cannot find at all well marked, though its joints seem, as Car- 

 penter says, to be slightly longer than those of the same pinnule in 

 escliriclitl. 



According to Carpenter the two species are widely distributed 

 through the Arctic Ocean. Eschrichti reaches, in Smith's Sound, 

 79° N. lat., and quadrata, 81°. 



Both were obtained by the Challenger Expedition as far south 

 as off Halifax, at a depth of 51 fathoms. Eschrichti was found by 

 the " Vega " as far east as long. 92° 20' E. 



In depth eschrichti has been dredged from 632 fathoms, quadrata 

 from 4GG fathoms. 



The Nares Expedition reports both from Discovery Bay, and 

 other localities are, for eschrichti, Davis Strait, Melville Bay, 

 Spitzbergen, and coast of Siberia; for quadrata, Barents Sea and 

 Kara Sea. 




1901.] NATURAL SCfENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Of these nineteen species it will be observed that two, Asterias 

 polaris and Ophiopholk aculeata, are not strictly to be reckoned 

 with the others as they were collected in more southern stations — 

 the former off the coast of Labrador and off Disco, the latter in 

 Battle Harbor, Labrador. The other species are all from between 

 lat. 76° and 79° N., though some species were also found at the 

 more southern stations. 



The Arctic Echinoderm fauna has been examined with care, 

 and it was hardly to be expected that any new species would be 

 added to the list of those already known. It is interesting, how- 

 ever, to note at least a new distribution, for Asterias gunneri. has 

 before this, I believe, never been recorded from Greenland waters. 



A comparison is naturally suggested between this list and that of 

 the collection made by Capt. Nares, of the ' ' Alert ' ' and ' ' Dis- 

 covery, " in 1875-6 from the same region, and published by Dun- 

 can and Sladen in the Annals of Natural History (IV), Vol. XX, 

 1877. 



We have in addition to that list one Holothurid, M. rinkii, and 

 two Asterids, Asterias gunneri and Cribrella oculata ; while in the 

 Princeton collection Asteracanthion (^Pedicellaster) palmocrystallus, 

 Solaster forcifer, Ophioglypha struivitzii and Astrophyton ardicum 

 (a deep-water form) of the Nares collection are not represented. 



Of the nineteen species in the Princeton collection, all but Aste- 

 rias polaris are more or less widely distributed in both American 

 and European Arctic seas. 



Increased knowledge of the distribution of Arctic Echinoderms 

 seems to increase the probability that they are nearly all circum- 

 polar and not confined to local areas. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



NEW MARINE MOLLUSKS. 

 BY EDWARD G. VANATTA. 



The species herein described wei'e encountered in determining 

 material for the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. 

 Haminea zanzibarica n. sp. PI. V, fig. 12. 



Shell large, subglobose, thin, shining, translucent, pinkish 

 white, slightly orange-tinted at the vertex and the base. The sur- 

 face is covered with very close microscopic wavy spiral striae, 

 longitudinally irregularly coarsely wrinkled, sometimes with several 

 angular spiral ridges caused by spiral malleation. Vertex im- 

 pressed, imperforate, whitened by an internal thickening of the 

 shell. The aperture is narrow above, ample below. The right lip 

 rises from the left side of the apical depression. Parietal callus 

 very thin. The columellar lip is evenly concave, broadly reflexed, 

 and the edge is not aduate except at the upper end, forming a 

 crescent-shaped free plate over the axial region. 



Alt. 20, diam. 14 mm. 



Alt. 21, diam. 15.5 mm. 



Locality. — Zanzibar. 



The type is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, No. 57,552. 



This species may easily be distinguished from H. zelandics Gray 

 by its less globular form, less convex parietal wall and the micro- 

 scopic waved spiral strife and free edge of the columellar callus. 

 This species is larger than H. natalensis Krauss, and the right lip 

 does not rise so high above the vertex. The spiral malleation is 

 similar to that of Limncea palustris. 

 Haminea succinea var. solidior n. PI. V, fig. S. 



Shell sohd, imperforate, finely wave striate, color waxen white. 



This variety may be easily distinguished from the typical K. 

 succinea Conr. by being heavier and smaller. 



Alt. 7, diam. 3 mm. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Locality. -^St. Martin and St. Bartholomew, West Indies, and 

 Progreso, Yucatan. 



The type is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia, No. 57,900, collected by Dr. B, Sharp at 

 St. Martin. 



Atys sharpi n. sp. PI. V, fig. 9. 



Shell small, subcylindrical, solid, porcellanous, glossy, translu- 

 cent bluish white, very finely spirally striate, strire strongest above 

 and below. Apex with an extremely small perforation. Base 

 umbilicate. Aperture narrow above, broader below. The lip rises 

 from the right side of the apical perforation and describes a more 

 or less even arc above without the twist so common in this genus; 

 the outer lip descends in a gentle curve and the basal lip is arcu- 

 ate. The columella is concave with a slight twist. 



Alt. 7.84, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Locality. — St. Martin, West Indie?. 



Types in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, No. 60,735, collected by Dr. B. Sharp. 



This species is easily recognized by the lack of a twist on the 

 evenly curved upper part of the lip. 



Tornatina bermudensis n. sp. PL V, figs, c, 7. 



Shell small, cylindrical, porcellanous, shining bluish white, 

 smooth. The spire is composed of about three whorls, the first 

 being turned up forms a large tubercle, the other two are round- 

 shouldered. The suture is a very slightly impressed canal, body 

 whorl descending in front. The aperture is nearly four-fifths the 

 entire length of the shell, narrow above and broader below, upper 

 part of aperture with a deep wide sutural notch, parietal wall 

 and columella covered by a very heavy callus, no columellar fold. 

 The base is squarely truncate and receding. 



Alt. 2.87, diam. 1.41 mm. 



Locality. — Bermuda. 



Type in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, No. 70,160, collected by Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 



This species may be distinguished from T. canalicukda and T. 

 decurrem V. and B. by its heavy parietal callus and the lack of 

 a columellar fold. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Lncina (Divaricella) dalliana n. sp. PI. V, figs. 10. 11. 



Shell almost circular, somewhat truncate posteriorly, nearly 

 equilateral, moderately convex, shining white, ))orcellanDus, sur- 

 face sculpture divaricate; in full-grown examples there is a smooth 

 band where the diverging lines would meet. The beaks aie 

 slightly raised above the hinge line, directed forward and located 

 hardly in advance of the centre; they are sculptured with micro- 

 scopic concentric strife only which are ^vorn off in the largest speci- 

 men we have. The luuule i? about one-eighth the length of the 

 shell The anterior area under the lunule is not distinctly marked. 

 The groove of the ligament is long and narrow. The margin 

 has the interior layer very finely cn^nulate, but the outer layer 

 smooth. The hinge of the right valve is provided with a heavy 

 cardinal tooth with a pit on each side, and a single tubercular 

 anterior and posterior lateral, the posterior one being about twice as 

 far from the beak as the anterior one. The muscle scars are of 

 moderate size, the anterior one being long and narrowr, while the 

 posterior one is more elliptical, 



Alt. 19, diam. 20, thickness of right valve 4.5 mm. 



Alt. 21, diam. 22.5, thickness of right valve 5.5 mm. 



Locality. — In ballast from South Africa. 



Types in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, No. 79,380, collected by Mr. J. G. Malone. 



This species is distinguished from L. dentata Wood by not 

 having the outer layer of the margin heavily dentate; from L. 

 cumingii A. and A. in having the diverging sculpture extending 

 across the anterior area to the lunule, and the inner layer of the 

 margin is crenulate; from L. quadrisulcata Orb. in having a smooth 

 band where the diverging lines would meet in full-grown examples; 

 from L. hidtojiiana n. sp. in having the inner layer of the margin 

 crenulate, and in the smooth band. 

 Luoina (Divaricella) huttoniana n. sp. PI. v, figs. 14, 15. 



Shell almost circular, posterior extremity squarely truncate, 

 nearly equilateral, bluish white with white concentric streaks, 

 glossy, porcellanous, surface sculpture divaricate, the diverging 

 sculpture extending to the edge of the comparatively broad ante- 

 rior area below the lunule. The beaks are slightly raised above 

 the hinge line, directed forward, located slightly in advance of 

 the centre, sculptured with rather coarse close concentric costellse 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 185 



only. The lunule is very narrow, beginning as a broad impres- 

 sion under the beak and tapers forward, ending in a shallow point 

 just above the anterior lateral tooth of the hinge. The anterior 

 area under the lunule is strongly defined by the termination of 

 the diverging lines, and is sculptured with irregular rough concentric 

 striie with more or less yellow epidermis in the interstices. The 

 gi'oove of the ligament is l)ounded on the inner side by a ridge 

 which begins as an angle near the beak and gradually becomes 

 higher to a point about four millimeters from the end of the hinge 

 line, then suddenly descends almost to the end of the hinge line. 

 The inner margin of the shell is smooth, neither layer being crenu- 

 late. The hinge of the right valve has a large heav}^ cardinal tooth 

 in the centre, with a deep pit on each side and a smaller cardinal in 

 front directed forward. The anterior lateral is a large tubercle 

 with a deep chink where the adductor muscle truncates it; there is 

 scarcely any trace of a tubercle at the posterior end of the hinge. 

 The left valve has the pits for the corresponding cardinals of the 

 right valve and a rather large posterior cardinal, an anterior laterail 

 like the other valve and no posterior lateral. The anterior adduc- 

 tor muscle scar is very long and narrow, while the posterior scar is 

 short oval. 



Alt. 29.5, diam. 82, thickness of right valve 8 mm. 



Locality. — Auckland, IS^ew Zealand. 



Types in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, No. 63,758. 



This species differs from L. deniata "Wood in lacking the dentate 

 margin, from L. quadrisulcata Orb. in lacking the crenulate 

 margin. It is distinguished from L. cumingii Ad. and Ang. by 

 having a long narrow lunule, more delicate texture and lower beaks ; 

 it is also much less globose. 



Venus (Anomalocardia) malonei n. sp. PL V, figs, i, 5. 



Shell triangular, posteriorly rostrate, moderately convex, longer 

 than high, solid. The color is variable: some specimens are 

 creamy white with irresfular transvcse zigzag brown spots or 

 stripes, some are almost entirely dark brown, and others are light 

 brown with a few very light radial bands and dark-brown 

 blotches. The interior is generally purple, shading into a white 

 margin with a brown band within the pallial line, but some lack 

 the white margin. Sculpture both concentric and radial. The 




186 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



radial ribs predominate at each end, while the concentric sculpture 

 is strongest in the middle of the valve. Anteriorly the first eight 

 radial ribs are prominent and densely granulose ; the median por- 

 tions of the valves are regularly concentrically costate and radially 

 ribbed, with finer closely packed costre prominent in the interstices; 

 the concentric costie are cut into even gi*anules by the crossing 

 radial costaj ; at the posterior angle of the valve there are about 

 five or six prominent heavy squamose radial ribs; from this point 

 the radial ribs predominate, and gradually become finer to the pos- 

 terior margin. Beaks prominent, directed forward, smooth, 

 except a few concentric growth lines. Lunule impressed, a little 

 convex, narrow, about one-fourth the length of ihe shell, generally 

 of a darker color than the rest of the shell and provided with six 

 or eight longitudinal granulose ribs. The groove of the ligament 

 is linear, tapering at the extremities. The margin is dorsally quite 

 evenly arcuate; rounded anteriorly, a trifle convex at the lunule; 

 evenly arcuate ventrally; posterior obliquely truncate, with a very 

 blunt obtuse angle near the centre. The margin is very finely 

 crenulate; beginning at the anterior side of the beak it is minutely 

 crenulate along the edge of the lunule, becoming coarser ven- 

 trally, then gradually becoming finer, and ends abruptly at the 

 posterior end of the ligament. The hinge is broad under the con- 

 vex lunule, narrower posteriorly, with three teeth in each valve. 

 The right valve has the anterior tooth small, lamellar and nearly 

 parallel with lunule; the middle tooth is triangular and directed 

 forward, its posterior ejid is nearly vertical, while the anterior end 

 is oblique and almost parallel to the antei'ior tooth; posterior tooth 

 large, about the size of the triangular central, slightly bifid or 

 grooved at the summit, directed backward. The left valve is three- 

 toothed, anterior tooth lamellar, higher than the rest, directed 

 forward; central nearly lamellar, vertical, with a bifid or grooved 

 summit; posterior small, lamellar, directed obliquely backward, 

 with a pointed summit. The adductor muscle scars of nearly 

 equal size, palhal line evenly arched, with a moderately deep pallial 

 sinus. Alt. 15, diam. 21, diara. 9 mm. 



Locality. — In ballast from South Africa. 

 ' Types in collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, No. 79,395, collected by Mr. J. G. Malone. 



This species diflfers from V. squamosa Linn, by being smaller 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



and less rostrate, also in having a predominance of concentric 

 sculpture in the median portion of the valve; the posterior end 

 radially closely ribbed, narrower lunule and much finer crenula- 

 tion of the ventral margin. The crenulation of the margins inside 

 is much like V. marica. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE V. 



Fig. 1. — Vivipara henzadensis Pils., p. 188. 



Fig. 2. — Ampullaria winkleyi Pils., p. 189. 



Fig. 3. — Ampullaria winkleyi, operculum. 



Figs. 4, 5. — Venus malo7iei Yan., p. 185. 



Figs. 6, 7. — Tornatiria bermudensis Vau., p. 183. 



Fig. 8. — Haminea succinea var. soUdior Van., p. 182. 



Fig. 9. — Atys sharpi Vau., p. 183. 



Figs. 10. 11. — Lucina (Divaricella) dalliana Vau., p. 184. 



Fig. 12. — Haminea zanzibarica Van., p. 182. 



Fig. 13. — Fossarus capensis Pils., p. 190. 



Figs. 14, 15. — Lucina (Divaricella) huttoniana Van,, p. 184. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS FROM SOUTH AFRICA AND BURMA. 

 BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY. 



The Academy has received from the Rev. H. W. Winkley good 

 series of an Ampullaria and a Vivijyara from Henzada, Burma, 

 which though without striking features do not seem referable to 

 any of the numerous described species.^ 



Vivipara henzadensis n. sp. PL V, fig. i. 



Shell umbilicate, broadly ovate-conic; olive-green with some 

 narrow slightly darker streaks; surface glossy and smooth, under 

 a lens showing fine, delicate and spaced spiral strife, which become 

 crowded and somewhat granulose on the base. Spire short, obtuse, 

 the earlier whorls eroded, the eroded portion reddish, tipped with 

 black. Sutures deeply impressed, the whorls strongly swollen just 

 below them; last whorl angular at the periphery in front, the 

 angle disappearing on the last half whorl, which is rounded; 

 umbilicus narrow, excavated behind the columellar lip, sur- 

 rounded by an angle. Aperture oblique, rounded-ovate, bluish 

 white inside; peristome narrowly expanded at the edge, blunt, 

 black, with a blackish border inside and out; continuous across the 

 parietal margin. 



Alt. 23, diam. 161-17^ mm. 



Operculum chestnut-brown and slightly wrinkled outside, with a 

 conspicuous raised or reflexed cuticular border; inside with a con- 

 spicuously raised and minutely roughened ovate area nearer the 

 columellar side, radiating stria) on the outside of this area, and a 

 raised border all around. 



This species closely resembles the African T'. helieiformis Ffld. 

 in form and color. It belongs, however, to a group of south- 



* From Cochin China and neighboring countries Fischer enumerates no 

 less than fifteen species of Ampullaria and thirty-eight of Paludina, in his 

 useful Catalogue et Distribution Geographique des Moll. terr.,fluv. et 

 marins d'une partie de I'lndo-Chine (Autun, 1891). To this number a 

 few additions have been made since the publication of that catalogue. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



eastern Asia in which the operculum is peculiarly modified, as 

 described above. This subgeneric group I propose to call Idio- 

 poma, the above-described species being the type. 



AmpuUaria Winkleyi n. sp. Pi- V, figs. 2, ?.. 



Shell narrowly umbilicate, globose; yellowish -olive, uniform or 

 with few or numerous dusky olive spiral bauds, the earlier whorls 

 eroded, blackish or ruddy. Surface smooth, somewhat shining, 

 under a strong lens seen to be very densely, microscopically striated 

 spirally, the strife minutely granulose; spire low-conic; sutures 

 impressed, the whorls flattened below them, elsewhere symmetrically 

 convex. Aperture vertical, semi-rotund, narrower above, reddish- 

 tawny and sometimes banded within, becoming white near the lip; 

 peristome a trifle expanded below, white or dirty yellowish, the 

 outer margin equably curved, columella concave, blunt and more 

 or less thickened but not reflexed, parietal callus rather thin, 

 white, thinner within. 



Alt. 58, diam. 50, longest axis of aperture 43 mm. 



Operculum (fig. 3) thick and solid, concave externally, and 

 partially covered with a thin, yellowish-brown cuticle. Inside 

 bluish, with a mica-like gleam, the scar of attachment sunken, the 

 columellar side concentrically striate, the enclosed eminence nar- 

 row, curved and smooth. 



Henzada, Burma. Types No. 76,011, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. 



It is somewhat allied to A. Begini Morlet. 



Donax Bertini n. sp. 



Shell long and narrow, the height contained about 2^ times in the 

 length, thin, polished, the color varying from pure white through 

 various tints of pink to purple; beaks situated at the posterior 

 third of the length ; anterior end rounded, posterior end obliquely 

 truncate, rounded at the extremity ; the upper margin anterior to 

 the beaks straight, basal margin but slightly curved ; ridge defining 

 the posterior area rounded. Surface sculptured with slight growth 

 wrinkles, and faintly showing some fine radial strife, which, how- 

 ever, are almost completely obsolete, though plainly visible by 

 looking through the shell, except near the anterior end; the pos- 

 terior area is sculptured xdth deep oblique grooves, the summits of the 

 intervening ridges cut by finer radial strife. Interior smooth or 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



radially striate; pallial sinus exteuding nearly to the middle of the 

 shell's length ; the margin finely crenate. 



Length 15.5, all. 6, diara 4.5 mm. 



Found by Mr. J. G. Malone in ballast from South Africa. 



Types are No, 79,532, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



This species is somewhat allied to D. Oweni Gray, but the beaks 

 are nearer the posterior end, the valves are not keeled ; the poste- 

 rior costulation extends further, and between and upon the riblets 

 fine radial strise are conspicuous ; finally, the basal margin is finely 

 and strongly crenulated inside and the shell is smaller. 



It is named in honor of M. Victor Bertiu, whose excellent 

 Revision des Donacidees (1881) and various other papers on 

 bivalves give evidence of a well -trained and acute mind, unfor- 

 tunately lost to science by death at the beginning of a useful 

 career. 



The following species of Donax occurred with D. Bertini : D. 

 Madagascar iensis Wood, D. bipartittis Sowb., D. spiculum Rve., D. 

 Erythrceensis Bertin. 



Fossarus capensis n. sp. PI. V, fig. 13. 



Shell perforate, turbinate, white, the last whorl encircled by 

 three very strong, compressed, flange-like keels, the largest peri- 

 pheral in position, the smallest surrounding the columellar region, 

 another of intermediate fize between these two. Surface irregu- 

 larly striatulate, with some lamellar riblets toward the aperture; 

 densely spirally striate, especially between the keels. Spire acute; 

 whorls about 0, the last three showing the peripheral keel above 

 the sutures, Aj^erture semicircular, the peristome continuous, 

 notched at the terminations of the keels. 



Alt. fi, diam. 4 mm. 



In ballast from South Africa. 



Type in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., No. 79,820. 



The spire is more elevated than in F. ambiguus (L;) or F. 

 pusillus (GId. ), 




1901.] NATUEAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA, 191 



MaPvCH 5, 



Mr. Charles Roberts iu the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



March 12. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Browx, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Observations made in 1900 on Glaciers in 

 British Columbia," by George and William S. Vaux, Jr., was 

 presented for publication. 



March 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. , in the Chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 



" New Mollusca from Japan, Formosa and the Philippine 

 Islands," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



" The Forficulidre, Blattidje, Mantidse and Phasmidse collected 

 in Northeast Africa by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith," by James A. 

 G. Rehn. 



" The Limits of Variation in Plants," by John W. Harsh- 

 berger, M.D. 




192 rROCEEDiNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



JV^ARCH 26. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



The death of E. O. Thompson, a member, on the 21st inst., 

 was announced. 



F. S. Manderson was elected a member. . 



Y. Hirase of Kioto, and Carlos de la Torre of Havana, were 

 elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1901.] NATURAL sciExcEs OF philadp:lphia. 193 



NEW MOLLUSCA FEOM JAPAN, THE LOO CHOO ISLANDS, FORMOSA AND 

 THE PHILIPPINES. 



BY HEKRY A. PILSBRY. 



The discovery of tbe major portion of the species herein defined 

 is due to the untiring industry of Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, 

 Japan, whose researches bid fair to surpass those of any previous 

 naturalist in the extent of his additions to our knowledge of the 

 Japanese molluscan fauna. 



Illustrations of the following species will accompany a contin- 

 uation of this paper, now in preparation. 



HELICID^. 

 Eulota succincta var. amblytropis n. 



Differs from succincta in havins: the peripheral keel obsolete on 

 the latter part of the last whorl, which is quite rounded. Pale 

 yellowish, with a dark reddish-chestnut peripheral band, and two 

 somewhat lighter reddish bands, one alcove, the other wider, mid- 

 way between periphery and umbilicus. Surface rather smoother 

 than in succincta. 



Alt. 17^, diam. 26 mm. 



Alt. 16, diam. 23 mm. 



Alt. 14, diam. 21 mm. 



Formosa. Coll. A. N. S. P. (No. 78,187), and Univ. of 

 Michigan. 



Eulota Sargentiana n. sp. 



Shell narrowly umbilicate, globose-turbinate, rather thin, 

 slightly shining; light yellowish brown with a narrow red-browa 

 band or line at the periphery, and reddish within the umbilicus. 

 Spire elevated, conic, the apex acute; whorls 6, somewhat convex, 

 slowly increasing, the last angular at the periphery in front, becom- 

 ing rounded on the latter half, rather swollen below, but distinctly 

 flattened around the umbilicus, especially just behind the basal 

 lip. Aperture quite oblique, irregularly lunate ; peristome thin, 

 13 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



distinctly though narrowly expanded, the basal lip straicrhtened, 

 reflexed ; rather suddenly dilated at the columellar insertion, half 

 covering the umbilicus; parietal callus scarcely perceptible. 



Alt. 22, diam. 28 mm. 



Formosa. Coll. A. X. S. P. (Xo. 78,188), and Univ. of 

 Michigan. 



This species belongs to the group of E. succincta, differing from 

 that form in the more globose and conic shell, rather acute spire, 

 and straightened basal lip. It is named in honor of Mr. H. E. 

 Sargent, the efficient curator of the museum of the University of 

 Michigan. 



ZONITID^. 

 Lamprocystis spadix S and B., var. cinctus n. v. 



Shell white, with a supraperipheral red-brown band. Formosa 

 (J. B. Steere). Numerous examples of the typical X. 6;/x(fZi'.r were 

 also taken by Mr. Steere. 



Vitrinoconus Moellendorffi n. sp. 



Shell high-conic, thin, light broAvn ; rather strongly but irregu- 

 larly striate, the strire slightly arcuate, weaker beneath and dis- 

 appearing on the early whorls; outlines of the spire almost straight, 

 the apex obtuse. Whorls 9, very slowly increasing, very slightly 

 convex, the sutures filled by a seam-like cord ; last whorl acutely 

 keeled, the keel compressed, projecting; base slightly convex. 

 Umbilicus contained 34 times in the total diametea* of the shell, 

 well-like, with flattened sides, bordered by a projecting and com- 

 pressed cord-like keel. Aperture oblique, small; acutely angular 

 at tlie position of the peripheral keel, and emarginate where the 

 umbilical keel terminates; the basal margin arcuate; peristome 

 perceptibly thickened, the outer lip simple, basal and columellar 

 margins a little expanded. 



Alt. 7.7, diam. 10 mm.; umbilicus 3 mm. 



Alt. 8.2, diam. 10 mm.; umbilicus 3 mm. 



Panay, Philippines (J. B. Steere Exped. ). 



This species belongs to the "group of V. cyathellus" in Dr. 

 \on Mdlleudorfi's excellent arrangement of the genus (Semper' s 

 Reisen, VIII, p. 42), and to the first division of that group in 

 von Molleudorff's key, which to accommodate this species may be 

 supplemented thus: 




1901,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



A. — Umbilicus bounded by an angle : 



a. — Umbilical angle simple; wliorls 8^, . V. goniompho.lus. 

 a'. — Umbilical angle bearing a cord-like keel: 



b. — Alt. two-thirds of the diam. Width of umbilicus 

 contained 4^ times in diam. of base. Whorls 9^, 



V. omp halotrop is. 



h'. — Alt. somewhat exceeding three-fourths the diam. 



Umbilicus contained 3^ times in diam. Whorls 9, 



V. Moellendorffi. 



Besides the difierences between Moellendorffi, and omphalotropis 

 given in the above table, the former has the base decidedly more 

 flattened. 



SUOCINEID^. 

 Succinea ogasawarse n. sp. 



Shell short and broad for the genus, squarish-oblong; very thin, 

 translucent and corneous with whitish streaks and clouds, rather 

 coarsely wrinkled in harmony with the lines of growth. Sjjire 

 excessively short, obtuse, flattened above, there being barely two 

 whorls separated by a comma-shaped suture; the last whorl quite 

 convex, its earlier portion very convex. Aperture very large, 

 eleven-twelfths the greatest length of the shell, very broadly ovate 

 in form. Greatest length of shell (measured obliquely to the 

 axis) 12.5, greatest width (measured at right angles to preceding) 

 8,5; convexity 4. 8 ; longest axis of aperture 11.5, width 8^ mm. 



Ogasawara (Bonin) Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 617a). 



A remarkable species, in which the spire is reduced to a mere 

 papilla, and the last whorl is large and convex. If the measure- 

 ments were taken in the conventional manner, the diameter would 

 about equal the altitude, but in a species so oblique in two planes 

 as this one, I have preferred to give measurements not involving 

 the direction of the columellar axis. 

 Succinea punotulispira n. sp. 



Shell ovate, very thin and fragile, pale yellow, subtranslucent, 

 the spire sometimes slightly tinted with red; sculpture of moder- 

 ately coarse growth wrinkles, and upon the spire and earlier portion 

 of the last whorl minutely and densely punctate, the pits arranged 

 in spiral series. Spire rather short and conically projecting, com- 

 posed of 2^ whorls, the first one very convex; last whorl convex, 

 distinctly dilated or bell-shaped at the mouth. Aperture regularly 

 ovate, the outer lip evenly curved, columellar lip simple and 




196 rROCEEDiNGS OF THE ACADExMY OF [March, 



narrow. Leugth (measured in the ordinary manner) 13, diam. 

 9, longest axis of aperture 11, width 7.5 mm. Largest specimen 

 in type lot 14.5 mm. long. 



Ogasawara, or Bonin, Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 6176.). 



I am no enthusiast on the subject of specific differentiation in 

 the genus Succinea, but the two species described above diflfer from 

 those previously known so strongly that they become of some 

 interest. It is questionable whether these species are of common 

 ancestry with S. lauta or »S'. horticola, the two Japanese Suceineas. 

 I incline to the view that they have no direct relationship. 



Some years ago, the Abbe A. Vathelet gave me specimens of 

 Succinea lauta under the name " S. Vatheleti Mabille." I do not 

 know that this supposed new species has been published. 



COLUMBELLID^. 

 Columbella polynyma n- n. 



Oolumbella misera Sow., Dunker, Index Moll. Mar. Jap., p. 54. Not 

 C. miser Sowb., Thes. Conch., I, p. 129 bis, PJ. 38, fig. 111. 



Columbella japonica Martens, Conchol. Misc., in Archiv f. Naturg., 

 LXIII, 1897, p. 170, PI. 16, fig. 6. Not C. japonica Reeve, Conch. 

 Icon., 1858. 



Shell short-fusiform, solid, yellow or orange- yellow, typically with 

 a subsutural white band irregularly marked with black-brown or red- 

 brown, the slender lower portion of the base also whitish with dark 

 or reddish dots or stripes; two white lines or girdles likewise dark- 

 dotted upon the intermediate part of the last whorl; but sometimes 

 the dark markings are faint or in part wanting. Surface glossy, 

 sculptured with very short longitudinal folds above, scarcely 

 reaching the suture and not extending below the periphery; the 

 folds on the spire becoming weak at both sutures. Base spirally 

 lirate. Whorls about Qh. Aperture rather narrow, the outer lip 

 thick and furnished with a series of short folds within; columella 

 smooth. Length 11, diam. 5.3, length of aperture 5.5 mm. 



Kumihama, prov. Tango (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 80,556, 

 coll. A. N". S. P., from 1,097 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This pretty liltle Columbella has fared ill in the matter of names^ 

 as the references above bear witness. It is closely related to the true 

 C misera oi Sowerby, but that species has stronger folds, especially 

 those upon the spire, and a white or nearly white ground-color 

 profusely marked with blackish-brown, the summit of each fold 

 having a vertical line or a spot of that shade. In C. polynyma 

 the folds are weaker, and the color-scheme quite different. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



C. niisera Avas taken in some numbers by Mr. F. Stearns at 

 Kamakura, prov. Sagami. The specimens vary from completely 

 typical to a broader form. The habitat of the type was unknown, 

 but from the exact agreement of Japanese examples with the 

 original figure, it may not unlikely have been from Japan. I 

 know of no other positive locality for the species. 



Prof, von Martens has quoted the figures of C. miser Duclos 

 in Chenu, Illust. Conclujl., PI. 21, figs. 13-10, as representing his 

 C. japonlca; but these figures show the characteristic spots on the 

 ribs of C. misera, and in my opinion do not represent any form of 

 the present species. 



BUCCINID^. 

 Chrysodomus intersculptus var. frater n. 



Shell differing from C intersculptus Sowb.^ in having fewer and 

 comparatively stronger spiral ribs, the intervals densely and finely 

 striate spirally, the anterior canal longer, more slender, with no 

 appearance of a siphonal funicle. Length 84, diara. 45, length 

 of aperture 50 mm. 



Kizennuma, prov. Rikuzen (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Typical C. intersculptus comes from the west coast of the main 

 island. This form probably replaces it on the east or ocean coast. 



FASCIOLARIID^. 

 Peristernia ustulata var. luchuana n. 



Similar in form and sculpture to P. ustulata (Rve) from the 

 Fiji Islands, but with fewer and larger longitudinal folds, 7 on the 

 last whorl; fleshy buff, usually with a brown spot in each interval 

 at the periphery, the aperture yellow and lirate within, the end of 

 the anterior canal blackish purple. Columella with two folds, 

 stronger than in P. ustulata. Length 28, diam, 12, length of 

 aperture 14 mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This form resembles Peristernia infracincta (Kobelt)" in colora- 

 tion, but differs in wanting the subcentral stronger spiral on the 

 upper whorls, and four larger spirals below the pei'iphery of the 

 last whorl, which Kobelt found constant in ten specimens of his 



^ Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (7), IV, p. 371, Nov. 1899. Mr. Hirase sends 

 this species from Kumihama, prov. Tango. 



^ Conchylien Cabinet, "Turbinella, " p. 92, 157. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



species. P. iistulata, in the wide limits given by Tryou,* has a 

 somewhat extended range in the southwest Pacific, but it has 

 not before been reported fi'om so far north as the Loo Choo group. 



LITTORINID^ 

 Echinella Cumingi var. luchuana nov. 



Shell similar to E. cuminrii Phil, in having a circular, deep 

 umbilicus bounded by a while marginal rib; but narrower, with the 

 last whorl less depressed, the two peripheral series of tubercles 

 much less prominent, some coarse, subtuberculate cords revolving 

 between them, and also below the sutural series. Base more con- 

 vex, tvith finer and not granose spiral stride below the subperi- 

 pheral series of granules. Flesh-colored, violet or bluish, the 

 tubercles whitish. Aperture orange-brown inside; dark brown 

 with the columella purple, in violet or bluish shells. 



Alt. 16, diam, 14 mm. 

 ;,' Alt. 13, diam. 11 mm. 



' Loo Choo Islands (Frederick Stearns, Y. Hirase). 

 " This is the form I reported from the Loo Choo Islands in Catal. 

 Mar. Moll. Jap., p. 175. I have seen a great many specimens, 

 but none approach the real Cumingi of Polynesia. 



TURBONILLIDiE. 

 Turbonilla varicifera n. sp. 



Shell long and slender, white, composed of at least 15 whorls 

 (the nuclear portion broken off). Sculpture of close, rather stout 

 rounded ribs only very slightly sinuous or oblique, about 19 in 

 number on the last whorl (which ends with a broad varix), as 

 wide as or slightly wider than the intervals, and stopping abruptly 

 just below the periphery, the somewhat convex base very faintly 

 striated spirally. Scattered among the ribs there are a few stout, 

 wide, rounded varices, at intervals of several whorls. Aperture 

 small, subtrapezoidal, the columella straight and vertical. 



Length 11.8, diam. 2.6 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This rather large, many-whorled and varicose species differs 

 from T. varicosa in having the columella straight above, not 

 " superne valde sinuata, " as Duuker describes his species. 



^Manual of Conchology, III, p. 84. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCE.S OF PHILADELPIirA. 199 



TROOHID^. 

 Cantharidus ( Phasianotrochus ) Hirasei n. >!>. 



Shell ovate-pyramidal, solid, of a uniform olive or brownish- 

 olive color, or belted with numerous reddish spiral bands. Smooth 

 except for faint growth-lines above, the base scored by 5 or 6 nar- 

 row, spaced, concentric grooves, stronger near the axis. Spire 

 conic, whorls 6i, convex, the last subangular at the periphery, 

 convex beneath. Aperture oblique, brilliantly green inside, with 

 a dusky submarginal band, the edge pale; columella opaque white, 

 rounded ; the umbilical region imperforate or with a very minute 

 perforation. 



Alt. 10, diam. 6.5 to 7 mm. 



Hirado, Hizeu (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This is a true Phasianotrochm, the first made known from 

 Japan, having the green nacre of the interior iridescent with the 

 characteristic splendor of the subgenus. The other species of this 

 division are from Australia and Tasmania. 



In one banded specimen the earliest three whorls are variegated 

 with pink and white, like a Phasianella, and assimilating to some 

 Australian species of Phasiaiiotrochu.s. 

 Cantharidus bisbalteatus n. sp. 



Shell elevated conic, imperforate or minutely rimate, glossy. 

 Encircled by a crimson or scarlet l^elt at the periphery and another 

 bordering the suture below, continuous or interrupted by white 

 streaks or spots, and roseate around the umbilical tract, the inter- 

 vening spaces somewhat olivaceous, with a few narrow spirals of 

 alternate blue or white and red-brown dots; two or three of these 

 spiral lines ascending the spire. Sculpture of slight growth-lines 

 and fainter or wholly obsolete fine spiral stria^ above, and about 

 6 fine-spaced grooves around the umbilical region, stronger toward 

 the middle. Spire conic, the apex acute ; whorls about (H, quite 

 convex, separated by an impressed suture, the last whorl subangu- 

 lar at the periphery, convex beneath. Aperture oblique, rounded- 

 rhombic, pearly and iridescent within, with green, or green and red 

 reflections; scarcely showing any appearance of sulcation. Co- 

 lumella white, concave above, somewhat straightened in the 

 middle ; columellar area excavated, white. 



Alt. 12.5, diam. 8.5 to 9 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase). 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Compared with the excessively variable C. japonicus (A. Ad. ), 

 described as Zmjphhius japonicus, the present species differs in 

 being shorter and broader, with more convex whorls, less angular 

 periphery and smoother base, the concentric grooves being finer, 

 and not extending outward so far. 



Clanoulus gemmulifer n. sp. 



Shell low-trochiforra, solid, angular at the periphery, slightly 

 convex beneath. Ground-color red or dull red. Sculpture of 

 spiral cords cut into smooth rounded beads, these cords a little 

 narroAver than the intervals on the upper surface, smaller on the 

 base and about equal in width to their intervals. Above the peri- 

 phery on the last Avhorl there are five bead-rows, all of them 

 dotted, either having a black interval between two white beads, 

 or with a black and a white bead, the intervals consisting 

 of two or three red beads; base similarly ""variegated, but the dots 

 are sometimes brown. Furrow^s between the bead-rows finely and 

 densely decussate by spiral and oblique raised strire or threads. 

 Spire straightly conic, the apex acute, roseate. Whorls about 6, 

 the last deflexed in front. Aperture oblique, contracted by a sim- 

 ple, rather compressed fold at the foot of the columella, and 

 another near the upper end of the outer lip, several small folds 

 between them. Columella contorted above, deeply entering the 

 false-umbilicus, the margin of which is toothed. Parietal callus 

 strongly plicate. 



Alt. 7.5, diam. 9 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hira.se). 



Closely related to C. marf/aritarius Phil., which occurs at the 

 same locality, but is larger and more elevated, with more whorls, 

 and further differs in the trifid coluraellar tooth, more rounded 

 periphery, and in having the first and third bead-rows unspotted 

 except close to the aperture. A well -grown specimen of C. mar- 

 ffaritarim measures: alt. 15, diam. 16 mm. C. imedo is a more 

 elevated species, with heavier columellar fold and some unspotted 

 bead-rows. 



Clanculus microdon var. ater n. v. 



Shell black with a few inconspicuous whitish dots and bright 

 rose apex, the coloration resembling C. atropnrpnreas Gld. Spiral 

 lira' about 17 on the last whorl, with threads or minor lir?e in some 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



of Ihe intervals. Whorls of llie spire angular by the prominence 

 of the middle beaded cord. Whorls 6. 



Alt. 11, diam. 13 mm. 



Hirado, Hizeu (Y. Hirase). 



Seems to agree with C. mlcrodon except in coloration, greater 

 number of spiral cords and other characters given above, but will 

 probably be considered a separate species eventually. From the 

 Polynesian C. atrojmrpweits, which von Martens reports from the 

 Mergui Archipelago, it is distinct in sculpture, etc. 

 Clanculus hizenensis n. ?p- 



Shell turbinate, moderately solid, alternately whitish and dark 

 brown in broad radial flames above, whitish profusely speckled 

 with olive-brown beneath. Sculpture of four coarse, spaced, 

 beaded, spiral cords above, separated by intervals of their own 

 width, sharply and densely striate by the growth-lines; the base 

 with 9 much smaller, closer, concentric cords, slightly cut by 

 obliquely radial grooves, the outer cord larger. Whorls nearly 6, 

 the last rounded at the periphery, slightly convex beneath. Aper- 

 ture oblique, rounded, the outer lip usually weakly plicate Avithin 

 in fully mature shells; columella having a weak fold above, and 

 inserted on the right side of the umbilicus, terminating below in a 

 strongly projecting, simple, tooth-like fold. Marginal rib of the 

 umbilicus having a few weak nodules. 



Alt. 7, diam. 7.5 mm. 



Hirado, Hizeu (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Closely resembles the more plain-colored specimens of C. Thomasi 

 Crosse, from New Caledonia, but the spirals above are less unequal, 

 more strongly beaded and more spaced, with sharply striate inter- 

 vals. It is a somewhat larger shell than C. Thomasi. Sometimes 

 one or two of the spaces between the cords of the upper surface 

 bear a minute thread. 

 Euchelus ruber A. Ad., var. brunneus n. v. 



Shell similar to E. ruber, but dull brown or fleshy brown, with 

 scattered brown dots. 



Alt. 6i, diam. 6 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. 



Similar to E. ruber in sculpture, but as all the Japanese speci- 

 mens I have seen are diflerent in color, it is probably distinguish- 

 able as a dull-colored race. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Chlorostoma argyrostomum var, basiliratum n. 



Shell imperforate, smaller than the typical form, \Tith coarser 

 corrugation above, the base strongly Urate concentrically. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This form is intei'mediate between the finely corrugated Chinese 

 argyrostomum and the coarsely sculptured Japanese species of 

 Chlorostomi. I know of no authentic record of C. argyrostomum 

 from Japan. 



ACM^ID^. 

 Acmaea Heroldi var. signata uov. 



About the size and form of A, Heroldi. Nearly smooth or with 

 very low, weak radial ribs; white, with eight gray rays variegated 

 with brown. Interior white or brownish within the muscle-scar, 

 the edge dotted and maculate with brown. 



Length 13, breadth 10, alt. 4 mm. 



Otoshima, prov. Bitcliu (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



A form from Kamakura, taken by Mr. F. Stearns, seems refer- 

 able to this variety. It is smaller and higher, length 9.5, breadth 

 7.5, alt. 4 mm., without a marked internal margin or central area, 

 the rays showing through. 



It may be well to say in this connection that the Patella jyallida 

 of Gould, formerly referred by me to Helcioniscus, is a true 

 Acmcea in shell characters. Mr. Hirase has sent specimens from 

 Mashike, Teshio, in Hokkaido. 



Patella grata Gould has '* about the contour of Helcion'iscus 

 eucosmius Pils. , is quite acutely conic, with strongly spinose ribs," 

 according to a note I made on the type. No, 1,965, U. S. Na- 

 tional Museum. 



PATELLID^. 

 Patella luchuana n. sp. 



Shell small, solid, rounded-oval, conic, the altitude nearly half 

 the breadth; apex erect and acute, situated a little in front of the 

 centre; anterior and posterior slopes somewhat convex. Surface 

 dull, sculptured with many narrow riblets, several inconspicuous 

 radial threads in each interval. Greenish gray, indistinctly 

 speckled with dark brown. Interior bluish or livid white, the 

 area within the muscle-impression large, calloused, the impression 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 203 



distinct, impressed. Edge beveled, having a narrow gray or green- 

 ish border and profusely or sparingly dotted with black-brown. 



Length 12, breadth 10, alt. 4.5 mm. 



Length 13, breadth 10.5, alt. 4.5 mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



A small species with inconspicuous sculpture, but so solid that I 

 take the specimens to be adult. The base is curved in some speci- 

 mens, as though they had lived on shells, while in others it is 

 nearly level. None of the species described from the region 

 resembles this one. 



CHITONIDuE. 

 Onithochiton Hirasei n. sp. 



Oblong, moderately elevated, not carinate, the dorsal ridge 

 being rounded, side slopes straight; smooth and glossy, yellow 

 marbled with whitish, having a chestnut triangle or some chestnut 

 dots at the ridge of each valve, several blue and olive clouds or 

 blotches in front of the diagonal lines, and with more or less 

 variegation of the same colors on the lateral areas. 



Anterior valve having black eyes arranged in about 10 primary 

 radii, with many others irregularly scattered or in shorter rows. 

 Valv^e ii, as usual, longer than iii to viii; all intermediate valves 

 beaked, having the lateral areas indistinctly defined, the diagonal 

 ridge inconspicuous except near the beaks; growth-lines fine, curv- 

 ing backward on the ridge; and adults have several .spaced, deeper 

 concentric grooves near the sides and anterior margin of each 

 valve ; near the beaks the diagonal ridge becomes raised and beaded, 

 and there are irregular, forivardly-converg ing zigzag grooves upon the 

 pleural tracts. A narrow line of eyes radiates along the anterior 

 part of each lateral area; and there are pits as large as the eyes, 

 but not pigmented, scattered sparsely upon the pleural tracts. 

 Valve viii depressed, triangular, with the usual terminal apex, 

 and linear, rugose, posterior area; the breadth of the tegmentum 

 twice its length. 



Interior white, stained with dull purple and puuctulate in the 

 middle; valve-callus heavy; reflexed border rather wide; sinus 

 rather wide, finely denticulate; insertion plates moderately long, 

 finely pectinated outside; slits 9 in valve i, 1-1 in valves ii to vii; 

 a wide, flat ledge in place of the insertion-plate in valve viii. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maroll, 



Girdle dark brown Avith irregular buff patches, smooth to the 

 eye, but seen to be microscopically granulose under a strong lens. 



Length about 36, width 20 mm. 



Hirado, prov. Hizen. Types Xo. 80,571, coll. A, N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,176 of Mr, Hirase's catalogue. 



This is the first species of the genus described since the publica- 

 tion of my monograph in 1892, and the only one known from 

 north of the equator. The sculpture of the valves is unlike any 

 described Onithochiton. A very young specimen was reported as 

 " Tonicia sp. " in the JVautilus, XII, p. 50. 



It is named in honor of my esteemed Japanese correspondent. 



CRYPTOPL ACID^ . 



Two species of Cryptoplax, the first known from north of the 

 equator, have been found by Mr. Hirase, at Hirado, Hizeu. One 

 of them, which I call C. japonicus n. sp., has valve- sculpture like 

 C. Gunnii (Rve. ) of South Australia, and the spacing of the 

 valves along the back is similar; but in the Japanese species the 

 last four valves are smaller, valve viii being scarcely longer than 

 valve ii, while in C. Gunnii and G. striatus it is a fourth longer. 

 The girdle is densely spiculose, much as in C. striatus. The articu- 

 lamenta are green. 



Length of dried animal about 26, breadth 5.5 mm. 



In another species, C. rhodoplax n. sp. , the valves are spaced 

 about as in C. japonicus, but are sculptured much as in C. larvce- 

 formis, with low, irregular ridges jDarallel to the lateral margins of 

 the valves, the articulamenta being bright rose colored. Valve vi 

 is the smallest. The posterior insertion-plate of valve viii is vertical ; 

 and the sutural laminte and insertion-plates of all the valves are 

 much shorter than in C. larvceformis. 



Length of the dried animal 28 mm. 



A full account of these species will be given later; and mean- 

 time I hope to procure alcoholic specimens for description and illus- 

 tration, 



PBTRIOOLID^. 

 Petricola cyclus n. sp. 



Shell solid, white, subcircular though with somewhat irregular 

 outline, swollen, the beaks full, projecting, turned forward, situ- 

 ated at about the anterior third of the length. Periphery convex 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA. 205 



throughout, the posterior end sometimes a little produced. Sculp- 

 ture of slightly irregular radial riblets about ef[ual to their inter- 

 vals, often stronger posteriorly, gradually weakening anteriorly 

 and \vholIy obsolete on the anterior half or third of the valve; 

 rude, crowded, bluntly lamellar circular striae everywhere minutely 

 rougrhening the surface. Interior white, the pallial sinus large 

 and rounded, extending to about the middle of the shell's length. 

 Hinge rather strong, the right valve with two diverging, rather 

 compressed, and long, erect, cardinal teeth, the posterior one the 

 more slender; left valve with an erect, triangular, bilobed cardinal, 

 with a subobsolete, diverging tooth on either side. Ligament 

 short, almost entirely immersed. 



Length 15, alt, 15, diam. 12 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 80,580, coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,199 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A very short, subglobular species, somewhat related to P. lith- 

 ophaga Retz. of Europe, but rounder, with more deeply immersed 

 ligament, stouter hinge, different shaped and stronger teeth. The 

 sculpture in some specimens is not dissimilar. As usual in the 

 genus, the teeth are liable to fracture, and when broken often do 

 not show plainly that they are injui-ed. 



In a variety which may be called var. sculpturata the posterior 

 end is more prolonged, and the entire surface of the valves ribbed. 

 The teeth agree with P. eyelus. Types from Puttalam, Ceylon 

 (Coll, A, N. S. P.). One specimen from Hirado, Hizen, seems 

 to belong here. 



Petricola cyclus belongs to the section Rupellaria,* as defined 

 by Prof. Dall in his exposition of the Pelrlcolidce ; " the section 

 Clandiconcha being represented in Japan by P. monstrosa, and the 

 section Petricolaria by P. ceqiiistriata Sowb. 



VENERID.E. 

 Venus Hirasei n. sp. 



Shell rounded -oval, ventricose, inequilateral, very solid and 

 strong; cream-white, clouded and maculate with dull brown. Sur- 

 face lustreless, sculptured with 24 to 28 strong, curved, radial 



*Fleurieu-Bellevu, Journ. de Phys., LIV, 1802, p. 345; Bidl. Soc. 

 Philomath, de Paris, III, 1802, p. 106. 



* Trans. Wagner Free Institute of Science, III. Pt. 5 i December 1, 1900), 

 p. 1058. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF TFIE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ribs, fully double the width of the interstices, closely and irregu- 

 larly creuulated by low concentric blunt, crowded luminiTe, which 

 on the later growth are obsolete in the grooves, but toward the beaks 

 are narrower and sharper, less crowded, and continuous across ribs 

 and intervals. Beaks full, projecting, curved forward. Lunule 

 heart-shaped, dark brown, ribbed and defined by a groove. Area 

 well sunken, ribless and wide in the left v\ilve, indistinct in the right. 



Anterior end short, rounded ; posterior end more broadly rounded. 

 Interior pure white, the right valve with three diverging cardinal 

 teeth, the posterior two grooved; left valve with two cardinals, 

 the anterior one slender, posterior stouter, shorter and deeply 

 grooved. 



Cavity of the beaks deep. Pallial sinus small, triangular, nar- 

 row and acute. Valve margins, except the hinge line, very 

 weaklv fluted and closely crenulate. 



Length 43, alt. 37.5, diam. 29 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This species resembles V. jedoensis Lischke, but has hardly 

 more than half as many, and stronger, ribs. There is a specimen 

 before me from Susaki, Awaji Island, besides several from the 

 type locality. 

 Tapes platyptycha n. sp. 



Shell oblong, compressed, the length somewhat exceeding 

 2|- times the diameter; white, profusely marked with angular 

 red-brown reticulating lines grouped into triangular spots, or with 

 inverted V-shaped markings, and four radial series of brown 

 blotches alternating with white spots. Sculptured with concentric 

 ridges wider than their intervals, broad and flattened toward the 

 lower margin and especially posteriorly, fine and close toward the 

 beaks. Beaks low, yellow or purple, situated at about the ante- 

 rior fifth of the length, the dorsal margin behind them nearly 

 straight; posterior end obliquely truncate, bluntly regular at its 

 junction with the upper and basal margins. Anterior end short, 

 rather attenuated, much as in T. adspersa. Lunule narrow, indis- 

 tinctly defined by an impressed line, flattened, marked with some 

 oblique brown lines. Area depressed, transversely maculate with 

 groups of dark lines. Interior white, tinted with sulphur yellow 

 within the pallial line. Pallial sinus broad and rounded, not quite 

 reaching the middle of the length of the shell. Anterior cardinal 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPfllA. 207 



tooth iu each valve compressed and simple, the middle one stouter, 

 bifid. 



Length 54, alt. 37, diam. 21 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This species stands near T. qafidrinidiata Desh., differing in the 

 coarser sculpture, more distinctly truncate posterior end, and de- 

 cidedly shallower pallial sinus. The color of the interior is also 

 different. T. deshaijesii Hanley has a narrower and deeper pallial 

 sinus. 



Tapes phenaz n. sp. 



Shell oblong, rather swollen, the diameter contained 2^ times iu 

 the length; pale yellow, densely reticulated with angular reddish- 

 brown and purplish lines, darker in four wide rays, which are more 

 or less blotched with brown; pale flesh -tin ted or whitish toward 

 the beaks. Sculpture of fine, crowded, concentric rib-strise. 

 Beaks moderately prominent, at about the anterior fifth of the 

 shell's lensrth. Dorsal margin moderately curved; posterior 

 end rounded; basal margin well arched ; anterior end short, 

 rounded. Lunule rather broadly lanceolate, defined by slight 

 grooves, dark, with irregular darker lines. Area lanceolate, 

 sunken, smooth, variegated. Interior white ar the margins, ochre 

 or reddish-yellow' in the cavity. Pallial sinus broad and deep, 

 reaching the middle of the shell's length or slightly past it. 



Length 46, alt. 31, diam. 20.5 mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



7his handsome species is far more finely sculptured and more 

 inflated than T. quadrimdiata Desh., but in my opinion it is the 

 form identified as quadriradiata by Roemer iu his magnificent 

 monograph of Venus, Part 2, PI. 18, fig. 2. The crowded rib- 

 strite of the surface do not become wider on the lower and posterior 

 portions of the valves as they do in T. quadriradiata Desh., and 

 the posterior cardinal tooth of the right valve, while grooved at 

 the tip, is not broadly bifid as in Deshayes' species. 



DONACID^. 

 Donaz kiusiuensis n. sp. 



Shell small, rather thin, white with one or two ill-defined ochra- 

 ceous rays, or yellow with some dusky concentric streaks, the beaks 

 brown-tipped ; irregularly triangular, the length somewhat less 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



than twice the altitude, and nearly three times the diameter; 

 anterior end longer, tapering, rounded; posterior end slightly con- 

 vex, bluntly angular below; the beaks situated at about the pos- 

 terior two-fifths of the length. Surface glossy, sculptured with 

 slight growth-lines and exceedingly fine, subobsolete radial stria>, 

 angular posteriorly, the posterior area sculptured ivith strong, 

 ■smooth radial ribs narrower than their flat intervals and terminating 

 on the angle. Ligament very short and swollen. Interior white 

 with brown stains near the ends; posterior lateral tooth strong; 

 basal margin finely ])ut distinctly crenulated. 



Length 9, alt. 5.5, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hi rase). 



A small species belonging to the section Chion, chiefly distin- 

 guished by the strong sculpture of the posterior end. 



ANATINID^. 

 Anatina impura n. sp. 



Shell oblong, fragile, rather ventricose, widely gaping posteriorly, 

 but slightly so in front ; sculptured with low, irregular wrinkles, 

 and where unworn, with the usual granulation. White and pearly 

 above, where worn through the very thin porcellanous coat, cov- 

 ered at the margins with a dirty yellowish cuticle, which is more 

 persistent and lamellose on the posterior rostrum. Beaks at the 

 middle of the shell's length, not turned forward, contiguous, one 

 of them worn through, both slit as usual. Anterior end broadly 

 rounded; dorsal margin almost straight; posterior end narrow, the 

 margins hardly expanded; basal margin parallel with the upper 

 margin except posteriorly where it rises suddenly. Interior whitish, 

 slightly wrinkled, the chondrophore and buttress as usual. 



Length 38, alt. 20, diam. 15 mm. 



Kamakura, province of Sagami (types No. 68,536 and 70,812, 

 coll. A. N. S. P.). 



This species differs from A. japonica Lischke in the median posi- 

 tion of the beaks and different shape of the posterior end. Lischke 

 has figured two somewhat diverse forms under the head .4. 

 japonica. That represented in his figs. 9, 10, has been taken by 

 Mr. Hirase at Hirado, Hizen. Having before me all of the 

 species of Anatina credited to Japan, as well as most of the Phil- 

 ippine forms, I find myself unable to place the specimens described 

 above in any of the accepted species. A. kamakurana, of which 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



I have seen a good many specimens, differs constantly in its long 

 form and the different shape of the posterior end. 



LIMID^. 

 Lima Hirasei n. sp. 



Shell inequilateral, thin, white, broadly gaping anteriorly, 

 slightly so posteriorly, compressed, the valves but little convex; 

 beaks a trifle in front of the middle of the short hinge-line. An- 

 terior auricle minute, triangular, acuminate, bent inward; posterior 

 auricle narrow. Cavity of the beaks rather deep. A strong rib 

 runs along the posterior margin slightly within the edge. Surface 

 closely and very finely striate radially, the stxiation obsolete ante- 

 riorly and on the posterior slope and auricle. 



Length 18, alt. 21, diam. 7.5 mm.; length of hinge-line 

 6.5 mm. 



Hirado, prov. Hizen, Kiusiu, Japan (Mr, Y. Hirase). 



L. orientalis Adams and Keeve, and most of the other small 

 Oriental species, are much more coarsely sculptured than this 

 species. L. Dunkeri E. A. Smith is evenly striated throughout, 

 the stride slightly diverging from a median line, and it is nearly 

 equilateral. In L. Hirasei striation gradually becomes obsolete 

 on the anterior half of the valves, is abruptly discontinued at the 

 posterior slope, and there is no divarication from a median line. 

 The shell is conspicuously inequilateral. 



The species is named for my esteemed Japanese correspondent. 

 L. Dunkeri also occurs at Hirado, Hizen, whence specimens have 

 been received from Mr. Hirase. 



Area (Scapharca) nipponensis n. sp. 



Shell of medium size, thin, inflated, the left valve decidedly 

 larger, the beaks full, moderately elevated, incurved and turned 

 slightly forward, situated at the anterior two-fifths of the hinge- 

 line. Sculpture the same in both valves, consisting of 37 or 38 

 equal radial ribs, which are nearly flat-topped, at least near the 

 periphery, and separated by interspaces narrower than the ribs; 

 the whole marked by slight growth-lines in denuded shells. Cov- 

 ered with a thin chestnut cuticle, which is densely, minutely 

 striate, and bears spaced bristles in the intercostal spaces, on the 

 median and posterior portions of the valves, and on the anterior 

 14 




210 PROCEEDiNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



portion is lamellose and bears flat, triangular processes in the 

 interspaces. Toward the beaks the cuticle is worn off. Hinge- 

 line two-thirds the greatest length of the shell, straight, strongly 

 angular at both ends. Anterior margin evenly rounded; basal 

 margin well-arched, the posterior end noticeably arcuate, oblique, 

 meeting the basal margin in a blunt augle. Cardinal area very 

 narrow, sunken behind the beaks, with an elevated margin; 

 slightly wider and less sunken in front. Hinge teeth small and 

 vertical in the middle, well inclined and larger toward the two 

 ends; a distinct though narrow ledge below the posterior teeth. 

 Interior pure white, slightly grooved and delicately striate radially 

 in the cavity of the valves, becoming very deeply grooved toward 

 the margins, the summits of the intervening ridges concave. 



Length 45, alt. 36, diam. 29 mm. ; sometimes larger, length 

 55, all. 46 mm. 



East coast of Hondo (Miss A. C. Harts-horn). Types No. 

 79,009, coll. A. K S. P. 



This species, of which we have six specimens from two sources 

 (Nos. 79,009, 78,749, 70,970), is distinguished by its well- 

 rounded contours, unusually narrow cardinal area, the marked 

 disparity in size of the valves, and the large number of ribs. Tt is 

 somewhat allied to A. disparills Reeve, ^ of which we have speci- 

 mens from Singapore, but that is less orbicular, with more of a 

 ridge or augle defining the posterior slope, and densely lamellose, 

 not bristly, in the intercostal spaces. 



In some specimens of A. nipjyonoisls the cuticle is greenish in 

 places. 



*^. disp((rilis ol Kobelt's monograph is clearly a species different from 

 that of Eeeve. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21^ 



NOTE ON THE ODONTOSTOMIDiE. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Dr. Pilsbry, Conservator of the Couchological Section of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, has called my 

 attention to the fact that the name Odontostomus was first proposed 

 foi" mollusca in the Index Molluseorum prcesentis cevl Musei Prin- 

 cipis aiigustissimi Christiani Frederici, edited by H. Beck in 1837, 

 thus having one year of priority over its use in ichthyology. 



I take pleasure in dedicating the necessary changes to Dr. B. 

 W. Evermann, the distinguished ichthyologist of the United 

 States Fish Commission, and joint author of that monumental 

 work, The Fishes of North America. 



The natural derivative, Evermannia, is already used in ichthy- 

 ology, so I propose Evermanella. 



The changes, with nearly all of the synonymy, will result in the 

 following: 



Family EVERMANNBLLID^. 



OdontostomidcB Gill, in Goode and Bean, Oceanic Ichthyology, 1896, 



p. 121. 

 OdontostoviidcB Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, 



I, 1896, p. 597. 



Genus EVERMANNELLA. 



Odondostomus Cocco, Nuovi Annali delle Scienze Naturali, Bologna, 



II, 1838, p. 192. 



Odo7ito8tomus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., V, 1864, p. 417. 

 Odontostomus Giinther, Rep. Sci. Res. Voy. Challenger, Zool. 



XXII, 1887, p. 200. 

 Odontostomus Alcock, Desc. Cat. Ind. Fish Investigator, 1899, p. 166. 

 Odontostomus Garman, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., XXIV, Fish, 



XXVI, 1899, p. 402. 



1. Evermannella balbo (Risso). 



Scopelus Balbo Risso, IVIem. del. Reale Accad. del. Sci. Torino, XXV, 



1820-22. p. 263, PI. X, fig. 3. 

 Scopelus balbo Risso, Hist. Nat. Eur. Merid., Ill, 1826, p. 466. 

 Odontostomus balbo Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Pesci Europei, 1846, p. 37. 

 Odondostomus hyalinus Cocco, Nuovi Anuali delle Scienze Naturali, 



Bologna, II, 1833, p. 192, Tav. VIII, fig. 11. 




212 rROCEEDixGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Odontostomus hyaUnus Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, Pesci, Tomo III, 



XXVII, 1840. 139, PI. 120, fig. 6. 

 Odontostomus hyalinus Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Pesci Europei, 1846, 



p. 37. 

 Odontostomus liyalinus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 



XXII, 1849, p. 315. 

 Odontostomus hyalinus Giinther,Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., V, 1864, p. 417. 

 Odontostomus hyalinus Giinther, Kep. Sci. Res. Voy. Challenger, 



Zool., XXII, 1887, p. 200, PI. LII, fig. A. 

 Odontostomus hyalinus Goode and Bean, Oceanic Ichthyology, 1896, p. 



121, fig. 145. 

 Odontostomus hyalinus Garman, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., XXIV, 



Fish., XXVI, 1899, p. 402. 



2. Evermannella atrata (Alcock). 



Odontostomus atratus Alcock, Journ. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, LXII, Pt. 



2, 1893, p. 182, PI. IX, fig. 4. 

 Odontostomus atratus Alcock, Desc. Cat. Ind. Fish Investigator, 1899. 



p. 167. 

 Odontostomus atratus Garman, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., XXIV, 



Fish., XXVI, 1899, p. 402. 

 Odontostomus atratus Alcock, lUust. Zool. Investigator, Fish., Part 



VII, 1900, PI. XXXIII, fig. 3. 



Genus OMOSUDIS. 



Omosudis Giinther, Eep. Sci. Kes. Voy. Challenger, Zool., XXII, 



1887, p. 201. 

 Omosudis Goode and Bean, Oceanic Ichthyology, 1896, p. 122. 

 Omosudis Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, I, 



1896, p. 598. 

 Omosudis Garman, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., XXIV, Fish., XXVI, 



1899, p. 401. 



1. Omosudis lowii Gunther. 



Omosudis Zowu Giinther, Rep. Sci. Ees. Voy. Challenger, Zool., XXII, 



1887, p. 201, PI. LII, figs. C, C. 

 Omosudis lowii Goode and Bean, Oceanic Ichthyology, 1896, p. 122, 



fig. 150. 

 Omosudis loicii Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, 



I, 1896, p. 598. 

 Omosudis Lowii Garman, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., XXIV, Fish., 



XXVI, 1899, p. 401. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



OBSERVATIONS MADE IN 1900 ON GLACIERS IN BRITISH COLUMBIA. 

 BY GEORGE AND WILLIAM S. TAUX, JR. 



While the glaciers noted in the following report form but a small 

 fraction of the hundreds in the Rocky Mountains of Canada, their 

 continued recession may be taken as an indication of the changes 

 which are taking place in the glaciers of the region, A moderate 

 winter, followed by an early and warm spring melted the snow and 

 flooded the rivers at an early date. The continued wet and stormy 

 weather, which extended far into the spring and summer, did 

 much to increase the amount of melting. So far as it has been 

 possible to determine, all the glaciers of this region are still reced- 

 ing. One exception to this rule was reported, but the advance 

 could not be proved with any certainty. ^ 



Victoria Glacier. 



The rocks marked last year to determine the motion and shrink- 

 age of this glacier were again noted on July 24, 1900. The large 

 block of limestone about one mile from the tongue marked " VX 

 '99" appeared to have moved 147 feet, while a large block of 

 sandstone near the terminal moraine had an apparent motion of 

 115 feet. The general condition of the glacier appears practically 

 the same as last year. Measurements taken on the northwest side 

 indicate a shrinkage of about six feet for the year. Several very 

 fine glacier tables were noted, one being a block of sandstone 

 eighteen inches thick, from ten to twelve feet in diameter, and 

 elevated not less than five feet from the surface of the surround- 

 ing ice. 



AsuLKAN Glacier. 



This glacier has receded perceptibly since last year, the tongue 

 being twenty-four feet further up the valley than when last noted. 

 There has also been a marked shrinkage in everv dimension. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF | [March, 



Illecillewaet Glacier. 



The very small recession in the tongue of the Illecillewaet 

 Glacier during the summer of 1899 was found to have been largely 

 made up in 1900, so that the average of the two years was not far 

 from that of the past thirteen, as previously noted/ A distinct 

 shrinkage was observed in all dimensions, but this was most notice- 

 able at the tongue which was now 140 feet above the rock " C," 

 nearly twice the distance of the previous year. 



Our work the past summer consisted : (a) in taking the test pic- 

 ture of the lower part of the glacier, which was made under unfav- 

 orable conditions on August 7, 1900; (b) location of the border 

 of the ice on the map of 1899, and (c) location and measurement 

 of motion of line of plates across the glacier. 



a. Of the test picture nothing need be added except that the 

 series is now complete for three consecutive years and furnishes 

 a most interesting illustration of the comparatively slight and yet 

 none the less constant changes in the contour of the ice. 



b. The position of the edge of the ice was easily located with 

 reference to the several fixed rocks laid out on the general survey 

 of 1899. The plotting of this border line showed that the glacier 

 had receded an average of not far from twenty feet on the sides 

 and sixty-four feet on the extreme tongue. At one point the ice 

 seemed to have changed but little since last year, while at others 

 the recession was more than 100 feet. This constant yearly reces- 

 sion has been proved to be in progress at least since 1887. 



c. The location and measurement of the line of eight plates 

 across the glacier, which were first laid out on July 31, 1899, and 

 had consequently been on the ice almost exactly one year, was 

 taken up on the 6th of August, 1900, on which date plates Nos. 

 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were located. Plate No. 8 could not be 

 found, and it was not discovered till several days later, when its 

 position also was obtained. 



All the plates seem to have moved in lines almost parallel with 

 the centre line of the glacier. The following table shows the 

 motion of the plates for the year, and also repeats for comparison 

 the motions determined in the fall of 1899, after the plates had 

 been on the ice but thirty-six days. It will be noted that the con- 



^ P)'oceedmgs of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1899» 

 p. 124. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 215 



cave or northeast side has a greater daily motion than last year, 

 while the <;onvex or southwest has not moved at quite so rapid a 

 rate. Whether this change is accidental or is the result of peculiar 

 conditions has not been determined. 



While the plates were left on the surface of the glacier, it is 

 hardly likely that future measurements will be of great value, 

 should the plates be again found. They are approaching a much 

 rougher portion of the glacier, broken by crevasses, deep wells 

 and seracs, and even should they remain on the surface, in many 

 instances it will 'be impossible to see them from the base line. 

 They have, however, served their purpose in demonstrating that the 

 average motion of nearly two feet per day as determined by Dr. 

 W. S. Green in 1888 was either much greater than the actual 

 motion, or was the result of conditions which do not now exist. 



TaUe showing Total Average Daily Motion of Line of Plates on 

 lllecillcicaet Glacier, Glacier House, B. C. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



DESCKIPTIONS OF NEW BEES COLLECTED BY MR. H, H. SMITH IN 



BRAZIL.-II. 



BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Lithurgus corumbae n. sp. 



?. — Length 7 mm., black; with silvery-white pubescence, dense 

 on the face (except the elevated portion, Avhich is bare) and 

 cheeks; rather dense on metathorax (except basal area and middle 

 of sides) and pleura; hind margin of prothorax, and tubercles, 

 edged with dense white hair, forming a conspicuous white line; 

 lateral hind margins of abdominal segments 1 to 3, and the whole 

 hind margins of 4 and 5, with snow-white hair-bands; apical seg- 

 ment of abdomen, and dark parts of the two previous segments, 

 with some short black hair, but it is very inconspicuous, and there 

 is no apical fimbria; ventral scopa white, tinged with ferruginous 

 on the fifth segment; legs with white hair, that on hind tarsi long 

 and slightly ferruginous ; femora, and basal two segments of 

 abdomen, dark ferruginous; facial eminence rather low but dis- 

 tinct, obscurely bituberculate ; head and thorax strongly and 

 densely punctured; autenuai short, flagellum stout, and obscurely 

 brown beneath; tegulre dark reddish-brown; wings brownish, 

 nervures and stigma piceous; hind tibire with numerous short spines 

 on the outer side, as usual in the genus; spurs white. 



Hah. — Corumba, April. This is the smallest Lithurgus I have 

 ever seen, but L. nifipes Sm., from South Africa, is nearly as 

 small. The genus is new to the fauna of Brazil. The stigma of 

 L. cornmbce is somewhat larger than is usual in the genus. The 

 marginal cell is shaped as in the North American and European 

 species, not acutely pointed as in the Indian L. atratiis Sm. 

 Ceratina maculifrons Smith, 1853. 



Chapada, January. 1 $ . — Length 6^ mm. ; differs from 

 Smith's description by having no yellow on the four posterior 

 tibise, the sides of the metathorax having no white pubescence, and 

 the hind femora having an apical tooth or projection. The peculiar 

 face-markings, the tooth on the outer side of the hind tibia near 




1901.] KATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



the base, etc., are as described by Smith, and I have little doul)t 

 that the identification is correct. Smith's description reads as if 

 the thorax were yellow, but of course this was not intended. A 

 different Ceratma, also taken at Chapada (in December), is appar- 

 ently the uudescribed 9 of C. vlridula Sm, It is a brilliant 

 insect, and the face is without light markings. 



Temnosoma metallicum Smith, var. chapadae, n. var. 



9. — Differs from Smith's description of metallicum by the larger 

 size (about 8 J mm.); mandibles green at base; scape green; 

 mesothorax closely and more or less confluently punctured ; wings 

 little iridescent, not noticeably clouded at apex; tarsi practically 

 black, basal joint of hind tarsi green; abdomen with purple reflec- 

 tions, basal margin of second and third segments brilliant purple. 

 Enclosure of metathorax sculptured as Smith describes for 

 metallicuDi. 



<S'. — 1^ mm. long, similar to the ?, abdomen with scarcely any 

 purple. 



Hah. — Chapada, March, d^ and $; also in November. Prob- 

 ably a valid species, but I leave it as a variety until I can com- 

 pare it with authentic material of T. metallicum. 



The following table will facilitate the determination of Tem- 

 nosoma : 



Abdomen impunctate, T. Icevigatwn Sm. 



Abdomen punctate, 1 . 



1. Margin of metathoracic enclosure smooth, T. ceruginosumSm. 

 Margin of metathoracic enclosure transversely striate, , . 2. 



2. Wings smoky (Mexico), T. smaragdinum Sm. 



Wings almost clear (Brazil), 



T. vietallicwn Sm. and var. chapadce Ckll. 



T. smaragdinum occurs as far north as San Rafael, Vera Cruz, 

 Mexico, where Townseud took it at flowers of Cordia, at the end 

 of June. 

 Corynura atromarginata n. sp. 



?. — Length Sh mm., dull from the excessively close punctures; 

 black; lateral projections of prothorax, hind margin of mesothorax 

 very narrowly, postscutellum and metathorax, greenish; sides of 

 basal segment of abdomen and extreme base of second segment 

 also green; clypeus prominent, with rather sparse large punctures 

 on a tessellated surface; mandibles long and dark; antennae dark, 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



scape long, flagellura brownish beneath and delicately pubescent; 

 tegulffi very dark brown; base of metathorax with oblique radi- 

 ating strife; Avings hyaline, the costal margin, including the 

 marginal cell, very broadly dark fuliginous (as in some Tachi- 

 nidaj); legs very dark reddish-brown; abdomen with long white 

 hairs beneath; puuctures of first dorsal segment of abdomen 

 stronger and less dense than on second, which has the punctures 

 minute and as close as is possible; hind spur of hind tibia pecti- 

 nate, with three large teeth. 



Hah. — Chapada, March and April; five specimens. Very close 

 to the Mexican C discolor (Smith), thus adding another to the 

 now rather numerous instances of Brazilian bees representative of, 

 but not identical with, those of Mexico or the adjacent parts of 

 the United States. 



This might be held to differ subgenerically from the type of 

 Corynura, but in that case Cacosoma Smith is not available, be- 

 cause of the prior Cacosoma Felder, 1»74. 



C. atromarg Inata is one of five species flying at Chapada, all 

 having the first recurrent nervure interstitial with the second 

 transverso-cubital, and the mesothorax very densely punctured. 



These species are readily distinguished as follows : 



Costa fuliginous from base to marginal cell, 



atromarginata n. sp., 9. 



Costa not fuliginous from the base, or not at all, .... 1. 



1. Abdomen long and narrow, clavate, like Baccha clavata, . 2. 

 Abdomen oval or suboval, hardly or not clavate, ... 3. 



2. Head and thorax bright golden-green, pseudobaccha n. sp., cf. 

 Head and thorax dark, suliused with olive-green, 



jucmida (Smith), cf. 



3. Marginal cell fuliginous, .... semimarginatan. s])., ?. 

 Tip of wing only fuliginous, .... chapadicola u. sp., 9. 



Corynura jucunda (Sinith'i; n. syn. C. senigma (Gribodo). 



Hah. — Chapada, December; 2 cJ*. So far as I can make out, 

 C. jucunda and cenigma are the same and identical with the insect 

 now before me. This gives it a range from S. Paulo and Cha- 

 pada, Brazil, to Rioja, Argentine Kcpublic, the extremes being 

 about 1,250 miles apart. In view of what Sichel states about the 

 two sexes of Corynura, it seems likely that C. semimarg inata or 

 C. chapadicola may prove to be the 9 of C. jucunda, but as I 

 have no proof of this, I treat both for the present as distinct. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Corynura pseudobaccha n. sp. 



cJ*. — Length about 8 mm. ; size and form of C. jueunda, but 

 easily distinguished by its very brilliant golden-green head and 

 thorax; the green of the abdomen also is bright, occupying the 

 sides of the first segment, the bases of the second, third, and most 

 of the fourth and fifth segments. Clypeus very prominent, with 

 large punctures on a shining surface; cheeks and sides of face 

 with short white hair; antennae very long, flagellum ferruginous 

 beneath; tegulas bright reddish-testaceous; wings dusky at tips; 

 nervures and stigma very dark brown; second submarginal cell 

 narrow; femora and tibiie green; knees, ends of tibire and all of 

 tarsi light ferruginous. 



Hab. — Chapada, January and November; 3 d^. 



Corynura semiinarginata n. sp. 



9. — Length about 8 mm.; rather robust, black with green on 

 sides of face, hind edge of mesothorax, scutellum, poslscutellum, 

 upper parts of metathorax, and basal portions of the abdominal 

 segments ; first abdominal segment subpetiolate, decidedly longer 

 than broad, bright ferruginous at its extreme base; antennse dark, 

 scape long, red-brown; wings with the marginal cell and beyond 

 fuliginous, stigma and nervures dark brown ; second submarginal 

 cell not so narrow as in the last species; inner loNAer angle of third 

 submarginal less than a right angle, whereas in pseudobaccha it is 

 quite a right angle : basal area of metathorax with oblique radi- 

 ating striie, and some transverse ones posteriorly, recalling the 

 sculpture of Temnosoma vietallicum ; first abdominal segment with 

 sparse weak punctures, second finely rugulose with close minute 

 punctures ; hind spur of hind tibia pectinate with large teeth. 



Hab. — Chapada, April and November; 2$. Allied to C. agile 

 (Smith). 



Corynura' cliapadicola n. sp. 



?. — Length about 8 mm. ; robust, black, sides of face and hind 

 margin of mesothorax very narrowly dark green ; legs very dark 

 reddish-brown, with the pubescence mostly black or nearly so; 

 abdomen uith the first two segments black, the extreme base of the 

 second green, the remaining segments golden green, largely cov- 

 ered with very fine appressed yellowish pubescence, with black 

 bristles intermixed ; antenniie dark brown, flagellum ferruginous at 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE^tY OF [Maich, 



extreme tip ; tegulre very dark brown ; Aviugs hyaline, apex fulig- 

 inous; nervures and stigma sepia-brown; clypeus with large, sparse 

 punctures on a tessellate surface ; mesothorax microscopically tessel- 

 late, dull, with numerous minute punctures and scattered black 

 liairs ; basal area of metathorax not defined, with feeble oblique 

 stride ; lower inner angle of third submarginal cell less than a right 

 angle; most of basal segment of abdomen smooth and shining, but 

 its apical portion and all of second segment rough and minutely 

 sculptured; under side of abdomen with long yellowish-white hair; 

 hind spur of hind tibia pectinate, with three large blunt teeth. 

 The basal segment of the abdomen is broader than long, thus 

 much broader than in the last species. 



Hah. — Chapada, January, March, September, November, 

 December; 83 specimens. The middle of the third abdominal 

 segment is often black. This species evidently belongs with Cory- 

 nura ; but, at least in Ihe ?, it has the abdomen formed as in 

 Augochlora. The maxillary palpi have six subequal joints, the 

 first two stout, the third subtriangular. 



In all the species of Conjnura the anterior part of the meso- 

 thorax overlaps the middle of the prothorax, and in C. chajKidicola 

 this is particularly well marked, the projecting portion being 

 bilobed. 



CORYNUROPSIS n. subg. 



First recurrent nervure received by second submarginal cell 

 before its end; mesothorax smooth and shining, with strong very 

 sparse punctures, its anterior morgin prominently overlapping 

 prothorax; hind spur of hind tibia of 9 pectinate with large teeth. 



Type, C. danvini n. sp. 



Corynura (Corynuropsis) darwini n. sp. 



?. — Length about 7 mm. ; head circular, a trifle broader than 

 thorax, dark }^ellowish-green, eyes emarginate; sides of face with 

 appressed pale plumose hair; clypeus short, it and the supraclypeal 

 area with numerous very large punctures; ocelli small and close 

 together; front densely and closely punctured; labrum biuodulose; 

 mandibles ferruginous at apex; mesothorax shining, purple-black, 

 with large sparse punctures; parapsidal grooves very deep; other 

 parts of thorax dark green; pleura with thin white pubescence; 

 base of metathorax smooth and shining, with a deep transverse 




1901.] >^ATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 221 



sulcus; truncation of metathorax with a deep longitudiaal groove; 

 tegul?e shining, red-brown, not punclured; wings rather dusky, 

 especially at tips, minutely but conspicuously hairy ; nervures and 

 stigma dark brown, second submarginal cell narrow, legs dark red- 

 brown, anterior tibite and tarsi ferruginous; abdomen with a de- 

 cided constriction between first and second segments; first segment 

 only moderately narrowed at base; first two segments piceous, first 

 with very large close punctures, second with large and small punc- 

 tures on its anterior half, extreme base greenish; remaining seg- 

 ments greenish, pruinose with a short pubescence, their hind margins 

 testaceous; antennie dark, flagellum ferruginous beneath at apex. 



d. — Length about 6 mm. ; similar to 9, but narrower, espe- 

 cially the abdomen ; antennse much longer, flagellum dark at 

 apex; anterior femora, tibiae and tarsi entirely bright ferruginous; 

 second abdominal segment with large punctures like first; fourth 

 ventral abdominal segment emarginate. 



Hab. — Chapada; 4cJ*, 1?; January, December. 

 Corynura (Corynuropsis) sublata n. sp. 



9. — Length about 8 mm., more robust than C. darwini, with 

 the first abdominal segment broader; eyes somewhat more parallel; 

 mesothorax more decidedly purplish ; wings perhaps a little 

 browner; supraclypeal area more or less coppery red. 



Hub. — Chapada, 1 9 ; December. Perhaps only a variety of 

 the last, but it is larger and seems distinct. The pleura is rough- 

 ened, and has also sparse shallow punctures. In C. darwini the 

 second abdominal segment is conspicuously wider than the first, 

 widening from its base to iis nind margin; in C. sublata the second 

 segment has nearly parallel sides, and is very little wider than the 

 first. 

 AugocMora calli chroma n. sp. 



?. — Length about 5 mm.; head and thorax brilliant golden 

 green; legs honey-color; abdomen pale ferruginous with dark-brown 

 blotches, small at sides of first segment, large at sides of second, 

 covering all of third except a variable patch on disk, and also 

 occupying the whole of fourth and fifth segments, so that the hind 

 portion of the abdomen is dark brown; at each extreme side of 

 segments 2 to 5, quite at the base, is a clear yellow triangle, with its 

 apex directed mesad; clijpeus icith a broad apical yellow band, which 

 sends a projection upward in the middle line; mandibles yellow. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEIMY OF [Marcll, 



feiTuginous at ends; labial palpi 4-ioiuted, ihe last joint smallest; 

 antennse dark brown above, yellow beneath, the scape long and 

 slender; mesothorax with very numerous minute punctures; scutel- 

 lum sculptured like mesothorax; basal area of metathorax micro- 

 scopically tessellate, the lines mostly running in a transverse 

 direction; abdomen impunctate; hind spur of hind tihice pectinate, 

 with only three teeth; tegulre pale testaceous; wings faintly dusky 

 at tips; nervures and stigma dark brown; first recurrent nervure 

 not quite interstitial with the second transverso-cubital, being just 

 the least before it. 



Hab. — Chapada, December, January; five examples. This 

 may be compared wuth A. nana Smith and A. festivaga Dalla 

 Torre, but it is quite distinct by the yellow markings on the abdo 

 men and other characters. It has a certain superficial resem- 

 blance to the genus Nomioides. 



AugocMora beatissima n- sp. 



?. — Length 5 mm. ; head cordate, shining yellowish-green ; eyes 

 only shallowly emarginate; clypeus with strong scattered punctures, 

 its anterior half testaceous, its lower margin with a fringe of 

 orange hairs; supraclypeal area smooth and shining, with a very 

 few punctures ; mandibles yellowish, dark at apex and extreme 

 base; scape piceous, flagellum dull orange-testaceous, except at 

 base; thorax brilliant bluish-green, the mesothorax and scutellum 

 purple; the hind margin of the mesothorax very narrowly, the 

 margins and a central band of the scutellum, golden; tubercles 

 yellow; tegulse testaceous, yellow at base; mesothorax and scutel- 

 lum minutely lineolate, with very sparse weak punctures; basal 

 area of metathorax not at all defined, minutely transversely 

 lineolate; pleura with scattered short white hairs; legs reddish- 

 brown, more or less dark; anterior femora apically, anterior tibiae 

 and tarsi, chrome yellow; hind spur of hind tibia pectinate; 

 wings dusky; nervures and stigma very dark brown; lower inner 

 angle of third submarginal cell a trifle greater than a right angle; 

 abdomen piceous, scantily hairy posteriorly, the hind margins of 

 the second and third segments broadly dark ferruginous. 



Hab. — Chapada, January; one 9. A beautiful little thing. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE TYMPANO-EITSTACHIAN PASSAGE AND 



ASSOCIATED STRUCTURES IN THE COMMON TOAD 



(BUFO LENTIGINOSUS). 



BY HENRY FOX. 



A perusal of the literature relating to the subject reveals the 

 Existence of considerable diversity of opinion among investigators 

 as to the exact morphological significance of the tympano-Eusta- 

 chian passage of the higher vertebrates. So far as its adult struc- 

 ture and relations are concerned, the passage would seem to be the 

 homologue of the spiracle or hyomandibular cleft of the elasmo- 

 brauch fishes. Both structures occupy the same relative position 

 between the mandibular and hyoid arches, and, moreover, above the 

 dorsal margin of each the facial nerve divides into its two main 

 branches, one of which, the ramus palatiuus, courses in front of 

 the cleft (or tube, as in the higher forms), while the other, the 

 ramus hyomandibularis, extends ventrally along its posterior wall. 

 Embryologists, however, in studying the development of the 

 tympano-Eustachian passage in various species of the higher verte- 

 brates, have found that its homology with the hyomandibular cleft 

 is not so clearly expressed as the mature structure of the organ 

 would lead one to infer, so that certain morphologists, basing their 

 conclusions on the facts revealed by embryology, hold that the 

 tympano-Eustachian passage is a structure entirely, or in large 

 part, independent of the hyomandibular cleft. 



In order to determine, if possible, the exact relation of the 

 tympano-Eustachian passage to the hyomandibular cleft, I under- 

 took to follow out its entire embryonic history in the common toad 

 of ihe eastern United States, Bufo lentighiosus.^ Contributions to 

 the knowledge of the development of the structures under con- 

 sideration had been made in the case of the Anura by Goette,^ 



^ The investigations have been made in the Zoological Laboratory of the 

 University of Pennsylvania. 

 ^ Entwkklungsgcschichte der Unke, Bomhinator igneus, Leipzig, 1875. 




'224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Villy/ and Gaupp.'' Shortly after I had begun the present 

 research a very important paper on the subject by Dr. Hans 

 Spemann appeared, treating of the earlier stages in the develop- 

 ment of the Eustachian tube in Rana temporaria.^ All the inves- 

 tigators mentioned state that the development of the tympano- 

 Eustachian passage in the forms studied is a very indirect one and 

 that it can be traced only v.'ith considerable difficulty. This diffi- 

 culty is attributed to the almost complete atrophy of the hyoman- 

 dibular cleft, which at an early period becomes so greatly reduced 

 as to be readily overlooked unless special attention is bestowed 

 on it. 



Of the investigators mentioned Goette correctly described the 

 degeneration of the hyomaudibular cleft, but his other results con- 

 cex'niug the development of the Eustachian tube may be disre- 

 garded, since his investigations were conducted at a time when less 

 favorable methods were at his disposal than we have at present. 

 From the results arrived at by the other three investigators a fairly 

 complete history of the Eustachian tube may be made out in the 

 case of Rana temj^orar-ia. Of these the work of Villy covers 

 fairly well the period of the metamorphosis, although his descrip- 

 tions are somewhat inexact,* and his conclusion, that the Eusta- 

 chian tube '' has almost certainly nothing to do with the hyomau- 

 dibular cleft," and that " the evidence oliered by the frog tends to 

 show that the two organs have no connection whatever with each 

 other," is certainly unsound, since such a connection between the 

 two has been established by the very careful work of Spemann on 

 the earlier stages of ihe tube in the same species. The correctness 

 of Spemann' s conclusions are corroborated by the results which I 

 have obtained in Bufo. Gaupp's chief contribution consists in his 

 calling attention to the appearance of the tubal Anlage at a stage 

 earlier than that in which it was first observed by Villy. For 

 further information concerning the results arrived at by these 

 investigators the reader is referred to the papers mentioned. 



^ "The Development of the Ear and Accessory Organs in the Common 

 Frog, Kana temporaria," Quar. Jour, of Micros. Sci., 1890. 



* " Beitriige zur Morphologic des Schiidels, I, Primordial-cranium von 

 Kanafusca," 3forph. Arb., Y, 2, 1893. 



'Spemann, " Ueber die erste Eutwicklung der Tuba Eustachii iind des 

 Kopfskelets von Eana temporaria," Zoologische Ja/trbijcher, 1898. 



^ As, for instance, he speaks of the tube as extending forward beneath tbe 

 palato-pterygoid bar, which it never docs, but, instead, passes beneath the 

 quadrate. Moreover, his figures shoAV it in the latter position. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPIIIA. 225 



I. Observations and Results. 



I now turn to the description of the development of the tjm- 

 pano-Eustachian passage in the common toad. In this undertak- 

 ing I shall first treat in detail the condition and relations of the 

 structures under consideration in the different stages, beginning with 

 the earliest, and then at the end of the paper summarize the chief 

 features of this development. 



Stage I (PI. VI, fig. 1). — I begin at a stage when the hitherto 

 almost spherical embryo has elongated and when the tail has grown 

 out as a short stump. No external gills are as yet apparent. The 

 head has become diffei'entiated from the boJy proper and the 

 region immediately posterior to it is marked by two or three slight 

 dorsi-ventral grooves, indicating the position of the future 

 branchial-clefts. 



PI. VI, fig. 1 is a coronal section of the anterior portion of an 

 embryo of this stage. The section is slightly oblique, the right side 

 being cut at a higher plane than the left. In this figure one will no- 

 tice that the anterior extremity of the pharynx is still separated from 

 the exterior, the conjoined eudoderm and ectoderm forming at 

 this point a solid partition of cells — the stomatodeal plate (si.). 

 From this region posteriorly the cavity of the pharynx gradually 

 widens out until it forms a spacious chamber, the sides of which 

 are marked by four dorso-ventral grooves, marking the inner 

 openings of the visceral-clefts. Just back of the fourth visceral- 

 cleft the cavity narrows very suddenly to form the lumen of the 

 oesophagus. 



As shown by the figure, there are only four visceral- clefts 

 {Hym., 2-4 v./.) marked out at the present stage. With the 

 exception of the fourth, each of the clefts extends outward as a 

 solid, double-layered plate of eudoderm, continuous at its inner 

 end with the epithelial lining of the pharynx and externally in 

 contact with the deeper layer of the ectoderm. Only the medial 

 portion of each cleft shows a lumen. The fourth visceral-cleft 

 resembles the others, except that it does not as yet quite reach the 

 epiblast. 



® In the drawing the distal extremities of the clefts are shown separated 

 by a narrow, clear area from this layer, but this coudiiion, I think, uiust 

 have been produced by shrinkage, a supposition which receives support froni 

 the rough and irregular character of the distal edge. 



15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Between the visceral- clef ts intervene the visceral-arches. The 

 interior of each arch is made up of a mass of rather compact 

 mesenchyme, consisting of scattered cells, containing numerous 

 large yolk- spheres, barely distinguishable from those occurring in 

 the endodermic lining of the pharynx. From this circumstance 

 the limits of the endoderm are somewhat difficult to define clearly, 

 and accordingly considerable care had to be taken in outlining it. 

 The endoderm is, however, much more densely crowded with yolk- 

 spheres and hence appears as a darker layer more or less clearly 

 marked off from the surrounding lighter mesenchyme. Four 

 visceral-arches are clearly differentiated, the two anterior of which 

 are the mandibular (k.m.) and hyoid (h.in.) arches, while the 

 other two are the tirst and second branchial-arches. In the former 

 two a somewhat dense patch of mesenchyme can be seen occupying 

 the centre of each. These patches are the Anlagen of the future 

 muscles of these arches {h.m. and h.m.). 



An examination of the remaining sections of the series to which 

 fig. 1 belongs, shows that the pharyngeal cavity retains approxi- 

 mately the same size throughout its entire dorse-ventral extent 

 and that throughout their entire length the visceral-clefts have 

 about the same direction and relations as shown in the figure. 

 Hence we may look upon the clefts as being solid folds of endo- 

 derm, compressed antero-posteriorly and elongated dorso-ventrally. 

 Throughout their entire extent the first three clefts arc apparently 

 in contact with the deeper layer of the ectoderm. 



The first or hyomandibular cleft resembles the other clefts in all 

 essential respects, except that it extends slightly forward whereas 

 the second extends transversely outward, while the remaining two 

 course obliquely backward. A section of the cleft in almost any 

 coronal plane presents the condition shown in the figure. Imme- 

 diately dorsal to the outer extremity of the cleft the distal portion 

 of the facial ganglion becomes continuous with the deeper or 

 sensory layer of the ectoderm. 



Stage II (Pis. VI, VII, figs. 2-7).— In this stage all five vis- 

 ceral-clefts are present, none of which opens to the exterior. The 

 mouth is still separated from the pharynx by the stomatodeal plate. 

 The external gills have budded forth as two minute, blunt, undi- 

 vided processes from the sides of the first and second visceral- 

 arches. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 22? 



In specimens of the present stage the Anlagen of thft various 

 structures have so far differentiated that they are in most cases 

 readily recognizable. The mesenchyme is less compact than 

 hitherto. The Anlagen of the muscles are particularly well 

 marked out as prominent patches of densely aggregated mesen- 

 chyme cells, containing numerous yolk-spherules. The blood- 

 vessels also have begun to form in the head region. 



PI. VI, figs. 2, 3 and 4 are coronal sections of a tadpole of this 

 stage. Of these fig. 2 was taken at a plane a slight distance above 

 the floor of the pharynx. Comparing it with fig. 1 we find that 

 anteriorly the stomatodeal invagination (d.) has deepened very 

 considerably, although as yet not communicating with the pharyn- 

 geal cavity. The latter has much the same form as in fig. 1, 

 except that posteriorly an additional visceral-cleft is present. Of 

 these clefts the most anterior, the hyomandibular (Stjm;), can be 

 seen as a narrow, solid diverticulum of the pharyngeal wall, 

 extending outward and terminating bluntly in the mesenchyme a 

 short distance below the external ectoderm. All the remaining 

 cleft outgrowths reach to and blend with the external ectoderm, 

 although as yet not opening to the exterior. Within the body of 

 each of the two anterior visceral-arches— i.e., mandibular and 

 hyoid — the muscles can be made out as ixTegularly defined patches 

 of denser mesenchyme. That in the mandibular arch is the 

 Anlage of the muscles of mastication (^k.m.), while that in the 

 hyoid arch is the Anlage of the depressor mandibulse + depressor 

 ossis hyoidei' {h.m.). Anterior to the first cleft is a small vessel, 

 the mandibular aortic arch (m.a.), while on the left of the figure 

 another vessel is to be seen posterior to the cleft. The latter is the 

 hyoidean aortic arch (/i.«. ). 



PI. VI, fig. 3 is taken at a considerably higher level. On the right 

 side we have passed above the dorsal margins of the visceral-clefts, 

 so that the latter are shown only on the left side. This section 

 passes in a plane approximately on a level with the base of the 

 brain, the small dark patch in the median hue in front of the 

 pharyngeal cavity being the floor of the iufuudibulum (inf.). 

 The hyomandibular fold can be seen extending outward and slightly 

 forward. It will also be noticed that its distal* end approaches the 



' Spemann includes these two muscles under the term " orbito-hyoideus. ' 

 ® A word of explanation is necessary concerning my use of the terms "dis- 

 tal" and "proximal." Ordinarily these terms are used only in connection 




228 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [Marcll, 



skin more closely than in fig. 2. In fig. 4 we see the fold at it& 

 dorsal origin from the pharyngeal wall (Hym.). Here it is to be 

 seen as a rather wide, shallow, blunt diverticulum of the latter. 

 In the sections intervening between this and fig. 3 the distal end 

 progressively moves peripherally as we pass down until it comes to 

 occupy the position shown in the latter figure. Hence the dorsal 

 edge of the cleft is higher in its proximal portion than in its distal 

 part. *In fig. 4 it will also be noticed that the proximal portion of 

 the cleft in its dorsal portion approaches very closely to the origin 

 of the second visceral -cleft. In the other two figures the cleft is 

 separated throughout by a considerable interval from the second 

 cleft. It follows from this that as it descends the plane of the 

 first cleft moves forward also. 



Grouping the facts so far obtained we find the hyomandibular 

 cleft as a solid, two-layered diverticulum of the pharyngeal wall,^ 

 which extends outward and somewhat forward to a point a short 

 distance removed from the external ectoderm. Here it terminates 

 in a blunt, rounded edge, extending downward and slightly for- 

 ward and presenting throughout its course no well-marked indenta- 

 tions or depressions. Above and below, however, the outer edge 

 gradually recedes more and more from the skin until it blends 

 imperceptibly with the lining of the pharyngeal cavity. The edge 

 thus has the form of a gentle arch. In general the cleft outgrowth 

 is elongated dorso-ventrally, but it also is directed obliquely for- 

 ward. This forward direction is more pronounced in its dorsal 

 than in its ventral portion. In its lower portion the cleft is widely 

 separated from the second visceral-cleft, but in its dorso-posterior 

 portion it approaches the latter very closely, particularly in its 

 proximal, internal part. 



These observations are further confirmed by transverse sections 

 (Pis. VI, VII, figs. 5-7). In fig. 5 the hyomandibular cleft can be 

 seen as a short, blunt diverticulum from the inferior, outer angle of 

 the pharynx (^Hym.). The cleft here is cut through its antero- 



with processes or appendages of the body. In the present paper, however, 

 I designate by "distal" Ihatpoition of the hyomandibular fold (or of its 

 deri\ative. the Eustachian cord) vvhicli is farthest removed from its con- 

 nection with the pharynx, wliile I eniph>y the term "proximal " to denote 

 tliat part of the same structure which is nearest the point of orijiin from 

 the pharynx. My use of the-e terms in connection with the structure men- 

 tioned is due to the necessity of liaving some fixed term to apply to each of 

 its extremities, the relative position of which vary in the difiereut stages. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF rillLADELPIHA. 229 



ventral portion. In the fifth section posterior to this (fig. 6) the 

 cleft is cut throughout the greater part of its dorso -ventral extent, 

 and hence appears as a broad, solid mass extending out from the 

 side of the pharynx and reaching nearly to the skin, where it all 

 but meets a slight papilla projecting inward from the latter 

 {Hyih.). This figure also reveals another feature of the cleft- 

 outgrowth which is of particular importance. Il will be noted that 

 it is the upper portion of the cleft-fold which approaches most 

 nearly the skin, whereas the ventral portion recedes gradually 

 from it as we descend. About the middle of this ventral portion 

 is a small indentation in the outer edge occupied by a small 

 blood-vessel (x. ). It will be also noticed that the proximal (inner) 

 portion of the cleft is situated at a. higher level than in fig. 5. 

 From this it follows that the line of origin of the fold from the 

 pharynx extends from below upward and backward. 



Posterior to this region the hyomandibular fold bends more 

 sharply backward and accordingly in transverse section appears 

 considerably narrower (fig. 7, Hipn., right side). We next obtain 

 the c:mdition shown in fig. 5 (left side), where the fold (Hym.) ig 

 cut approximately at right angles to its surface and hence appears 

 extremely narrow. Below the fold is a large oval mass, the 

 Anlage of the hyoidean muscles, i.e., deprei«sor mandibuhe and 

 depressor ossis hyoidei (h.m.'). Spemanu has noticed a relation 

 between the subsequent development of these muscles and the 

 degeneration of the hyomandibular fold. I have found the same 

 relation to exist in Bnfo, but shall call attention to it later. The 

 fold next enlarges somewhat, and then, gradually receding moi*e 

 and more from the exterior, blends imperceptibly with the pharyn- 

 geal wall. These stages are show'n consecutively in figs. 6 and 7 

 (left sides). 



The transverse sections also show some structural features, which 

 are of impurtance in tracing certain stages in the subsequent his- 

 tory of the cleft-fold. Anterior to the cleft is the efferent man- 

 dibular aortic artery, a branch from the carotid. At the present 

 stage this vessel is rather difficult to trace, but with some care can 

 be worked out. Since, owing to the general antei'o-ventral direc- 

 tion taken by the plane of the hyomandibular fold, the anterior 

 wall of the latter faces forward and also upward, it follows that in 

 transverse section structures anterior to the fold will be seen dorsal 




230 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



to it. Thus in the figures the region immediately dorsal to the fold 

 is the mandibular arch, whereas that ventral to it is the hyoid 

 arch. In fig. 7 the efferent portion of the mandibular aortic arch 

 can be seen as a transversely placed vessel (m.a'.) just above the 

 roof of the pharynx and extending outward above the hyoman- 

 dibular diverticulum. Internally the vessel unites with the carotid 

 (car.). The course of the mandibular aortic arch can be followed 

 by comparing the figures. At first it is very small, as seen in fig. 

 5 (?n.a'.). Tracing it forward, however, it is soon found to be 

 continuous with a much larger vessel with a Avell-marked lumen. 

 This vessel is the afferent portion of the mandibular aortic arch 

 {m.a"). Immediately beneath the antcro-inferior extremity of the 

 hyomandibular fold the mandibular aoitic arch is joined by the 

 hyoidean aortic arch, and the common trunk thus formed communi- 

 cates with the large inferior jugular sinuses beneath the mouth. 



The other structure to which I desire to call attention is the 

 hyomandibular ramus of the facial nerve. The facial ganglion at 

 present lies just back of and above the dorsal margin of the 

 hyomandibular fold. The anterior edge of the ganglion is in 

 actual contact with the outer margin of the fold (fig. 7, vii). 

 From the ventral surface of the ganglion the hyomandibular ramus 

 (fig. 6, vil h.) is given off as a large nerve supplying the muscles 

 of the hyoid arch. It is hence posterior to the hyomandibular 

 fold. 



Stage ///(Pis. VII, VIII, figs. 10-14, 16-18).— Young tadpole. 

 External gills prominent and considerably branched, not covered as 

 yet to any marked extent by the opercular fold. Third visceral- 

 cleft opening to the exterior. Mouth communicating with pharynx. 

 The tail has attained its full development. 



A considerable departure from the conditions observed in the 

 preceding stage is shown in the present. The different organs are 

 (|uite clearly differentiated, while the Anlngen of the more impor- 

 tant cartilages can be made out as dense aggregations of the mesen- 

 chyme. The first visceral-cleft especially has undergone marked 

 modifications. We can follow out its course by comparing figs. 

 10-14. Consulting fig. 10, we notice that the pharyngeal wall is 

 separated from the exterior by a considerable interval occupied by 

 scattered mesenchyme cells, which in the region immediately sur- 

 rounding the pharynx are segregating to form the AnJagen of the 




1901.] XATUKAL SCIEXCE^ OF PHILADELPHIA, 231 



skeletal structures. Since it will be necessary hereafter in study- 

 ing the development of the Eustachian tube to take into consider- 

 ation the modifications undergone by the neighboring skeletal 

 parts, it may be well to point out these parts in the present stage. 

 The very dense segregated mass which may be seen in fig. 10 

 (3/. and Q.), immediately external to and beneath the pharynx, is 

 the Anlage of the cartilagiuous mandibular arch. That portion 

 of the arch which underlies the pharynx is the mandibular or 

 ^leckel's cartilage (M.), while that external to it is the quadrate 

 or suspensorium (Q-). In the figure there is no distinct separation 

 between these two portions, but more anteriorly the mandibular 

 Anlaxje can be seen to be separated from the quadrate b}'' a slight 

 space in which the mesenchyme cells are less densely aggregated 

 (fig. 11, M. — shown here owing to the oblique section, the left 

 side being cut more anteriorh'- than the right). In fig. 10 (i/. ) 

 only the most posterior part of the mandible can be seen. The 

 mandible, as in all anuran tadpoles, extends transversely beneath 

 the floor of the mouth. External to the lateral wall of the 

 pharynx (right side) is the quadrate cartilage ( Q.), which ven- 

 trally becomes continuous with the mandible and at the same point 

 sends upward and outward a strong process, the orbital process or 

 processus muscularis {Pr.M.) (Gaupp). This process with the 

 inner portion of the quadrate forms a deep concavity, underlying 

 tlie eye and containing the muscles of mastication. That portion 

 of tlie quadrate which lies in contact with the pharyngeal wall is 

 the palato-pterygoid process or commissura quadralo-cranialis ante- 

 rior of Gaupp (fig. 11, Pr.q.c.a.). At its dorsal extremity this 

 part approaches, but is still separated from, a patch of dense tissue 

 in immediate contact with the dorso-lateral border of the pharynx, 

 the Anlage of the trabecula cranii (Tr.). 



On the right side of fig. 11 (fourth section posterior to that of 

 fig. 10), the mandibular cartilage has been passed, and in its stead 

 we find a very slight aggregation of mesenchyme forming a portion 

 of the cartilaginous hyoid bar. The trabecula cranii of the same 

 side has become much less distinct, and in the third section follow- 

 ing (fig. 12) has ceased to be any longer distinguishable from the 

 surrounding mesenchyme. The trabecule cranii at present are 

 thus mai'ked out only in their more anterior portion. Of the 

 quadrate cartilage we have only the body with its processus mus- 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



cularis, having passed beyond the transversely placed commissure 

 quadrato-cranialis anterior (palato-pterygoid). Of the quadrate 

 the outer, distal portion of the processus muscularis is most dis- 

 tinct at the present stage. Above this process are the muscles of 

 mastication (^.m.) already mentioned, while to its outer or ventral 

 surface are attached two muscles, the depressor mandibula? 

 (m.d.m.^ and depressor ossis hyoidei (m.d.h.). Between these 

 two muscles courses the ramus hyomandibularis of the facial nerve 

 (vii h.). Both of these muscles belong to the hyoid or second 

 visceral-arch and have been differentiated out of the common 

 muscle mass of that arch. 



The quadrate in the region posterior to that just considered 

 blends gradually and imperceptibly with the surrounding mesen- 

 chyme. This can be followed by examining the figures consecu- 

 tively. 



We will now turn to the consideration of the hyomandibular 

 fold in the present stage. In fig. 12 the rhomboidal cavity of 

 the pharynx is sharply prolonged at its right veutro-lateral angle, 

 and from the wall of the cavity immediately above this prolonga- 

 tion a narrow, solid cord, rep^'esenting an extension of the wall, 

 extends upward and outward in close contact with the ventral sur- 

 face of the processus muscularis (Eu.). Just internal to its blind, 

 distal extremity can be seen a small vessel interposed between the 

 cord and the cartilage. This vessel is the mandibular aortic arch. 

 Ventral to the cord is a semicircular mass of procartilage, in the 

 hollow of which is placed the depressor mandibulffi. This is the 

 Anlage of the hyoid, a more complete view of which can be 

 obtained in fig. 13 {H.'). The hyoid, like the mandible, is a stout, 

 thick bar placed transversely beneath the floor of the pharynx and 

 separated from its fellow in the mid-line by a less compact tissue. 

 Anteriorly the two ai-e se])arated by the thyroid gland outgrowth 

 (TA.). At its outer extremity the hyoid turns sharply upward 

 as a flattened plate with a concave outer surface in which is lodged, 

 as already mentioned, the depressor mandibuhw Its inner surface 

 is closely applied to the outer and ventral wall of the hyomandib- 

 ular fold {Eu.). 



In the region posterior to that shown in fig. 12 the hyomandibu- 

 lar fold presents much the same appearance as in tiie last stage 

 (compare figs. 13 and 14 with G and 7). It will be noticed, how- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF rHILADELPHIA. 233 



€ver, that the fold is considerably narrower than in the precednig 

 stage, and also that its distal extremity is much farther removed 

 from the external surface. This condition Avill be more fully coii- 

 sidered presently. The narrowing of the fold, however, is more 

 apparent than real. If one will bear in mind the statement 

 already made that the fold extends downward and obliquely for- 

 ward, a true explanation of the difference will suggest itself. 

 Naturally a section which passes through in the same plane as that 

 of the fold will show the latter as a broad mass. This explains 

 the appearance of the fold as shown in fig. 6 (right side). In this 

 figure the section on the right side passes through the eye, whereas 

 on the left side it passes some distance behind the eye. Hence the 

 section traverses the right side in an obliquely forward direction, 

 thus coinciding in the main with the plane of the fold. In the 

 same specimen the fold on the left side is cut throughout trans- 

 versely, so that, except in its most posterior portion, it appears as 

 a narrow, two-layered lamina. 



It is in its distal anterior portion that the hyoraandibular fold 

 has undergone its greatest modification. In fig. 12 the fold is 

 continuous with the wall of the j)harynx. In fig. 11, which is the 

 third section anterior to that of fig. 12, this connection no longer 

 exists. The fold appears as a solid, somewhat flattened cord 

 (Ea.), closely underlying the upper, outer extremity of the pro- 

 cessus muscularis. Its internal surface is in intimate contact with 

 the mandibular aortic arch (m.a.), while externally the two muscles 

 of the hyoid arch — i.e., depressor mandibulaj (m.d.m.) and depres- 

 sor ossis hyoidei (m.d.h.) — approach it very closely. The proxi- 

 mal portion of the anterior part of the fold can be seen in the 

 figure as a relatively broad diverticulum from the wall of the 

 outer, inferior angle of the pharynx (Hym.). 



Anterior to the region just considered this cord-like extension of 

 the fold extends forward a short distance and then bends sharply 

 outward in front of the two muscles just mentioned (fig. 18, Hym., 

 right side). In this region it enlarges considerably and finally 

 terminates as a blind, bulbous sw'eDing in the mesenchyme a short 

 distance below the external epithelium. This part is shown in fig. 

 10 (Tym.), also in fig. 17 (Ttjm.). 



Perhaps a clearer conception of the state of the fold may be 

 gained by a comparison with some coronal sections. In fig. 16 we 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maii^h, 



have sucli a section, in which, however, the phiue is lower on the 

 light, side than on the left. Commencing below, we observe on the 

 right of the figure a short, blunt diverticulum of the pharyngeal 

 Avail, extending outward and slightly forward between the Anlaf/en 

 of the mandibular and hyoid cartilages. This part corresponds 

 to broad proximal portion of the fold shown in fig. 11 as continu- 

 ous with the pharyngeal wall. In the fourth section dorsal to this 

 (fig. 17) the same portion of the fold is still seen, and just exter- 

 nal to its distal extremity is an elongated strand of like nature 

 (Tt/m.'), somewhat swollen in its outer portion, where it terminates 

 just beneath the external epithelium. This part is the swollen 

 poriion of the cleft, which, as already mentioned, extends out in 

 front of the hyoidean muscles and forms the distal expanded por- 

 tion of the cord-like extension of the fold. In the second section 

 above this (fig. 18) these two parts of the fold join, so that it now 

 appears continuous throughout [Ht/n.). The present section gives 

 a very good view of the course taken by the hyomaudibular fold. 

 One will observe that it has a very broad origin from the pharyn- 

 geal wall, and that from this point it extends outward and also 

 considerably forward. In its middle portion the fold is consider- 

 ably constricted, while in its distal outer extremity it is enlarged to 

 form the swollen, bulbous portion which curves outward in front 

 of the hyoidean muscles, as is well shown in the figure. 



One notices that in fig. 18 the outer, distal extremity of the 

 fold is farther removed from the exterior than in fig. 17. If the 

 left side of fig. 16 {Hym.) — which represents a plane slightly 

 more dorsal than that of the right of fig. 18 — be now consulted it 

 will b3 seen that this portion is still farther removed from the 

 exterior, and by comparing the same fold (^Hym.) in the following 

 two figures (17 and 18) the distance between the two will be seen 

 to be still more increased. In the latter two figures the fold 

 approaches very closely the proximal portion of the second visceral- 

 cleft {3 V.J.) — a feature to which we have already called attention. 



Bringing together the facts so far obtained relating to the third 

 stage, we shall now endeavor to form a conception of the hyoman- 

 dibular fold as a whole. It arises as a solid fold of the wall of 

 the pharynx and extends downward and obliquely forward as a 

 thin plate between the first and second visceral-arches. Its origin 

 from the pharynx extends downward and forward, beginning above 




liJOl.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



just anterior to the dorsal origin of the second visceral-cleft (figs. 

 14, 17, 18, Hijm.) and terminating at the position of the future 

 quadrato- mandibular articulation (fig. 10, Hym.). The outer or 

 distal border begins dorsally in continuity with the roof of the 

 pharynx (fig. 14, Hym.), and then extends in a gentle curve 

 downward, outward and forward until it reaches the point where 

 the distal, cord-like extension is given off and which I shall now 

 designate as the " diverticulum." The latter is at first a flattened 

 cord (fig. 11, Eu.), which at first extends forward a short dis- 

 tance, but, when it reaches the anterior border ot the depressor 

 ossis hyoidei, turns sharpl}'^ outward and slightly dowuwai'd in 

 front of the latter and then expands to form a solid, bulbous 

 swelling, which terminates blindly in the mesenchyme a short dis- 

 tance below the external ectoderm (figs. 10, 17, Tym.; also fig. 

 18, Hym.). This portion of the hyoraandibular fold is the only 

 part which comes into close proximity with the external epithelium. 

 The remainder of the fold lies at a considerably deeper level. The 

 distal border of the latter, below the origin of the " diverticu- 

 lum," bends downward and inward and at its ventral end blends 

 with the floor of the jDharyux (figs. 10, 11, Hym.; 12, 13, 14, 

 Hym. [leftside]; 16, 17 [right]). This portion of the distal 

 border is continuous with the ventral border of the " diverticu- 

 lum," and, owing to the slightly downward direction taken by the 

 latter, forms with it a shallow sinus or depression, the concavity 

 of which faces downward and outward. By its anterior surface the 

 hyomandibular fold is in close contact with the quadrate, although 

 partly separated from it by the mandibular aortic arch Qm.a.). 

 Owing to the obliquely anterior direction taken by the hyoman- 

 dibular fold, this surface faces both forward and upward, so that 

 in transverse sections it appears as the dorsal border. Hence it 

 follows that all structures found above the fold are anterior to it, 

 whereas those ventral to it are posterior. The posterior surface 

 faces backward and downward and has in close relation the Anlagen 

 of the hyoid cartilage and associated muscles. Between the two 

 muscles is the ramus hyomaudibularis of the facial nerve {vii h.) 

 which occupies its definitive position posterior to the hyomandibu- 

 lar fold.' 



'The reader will do well to consult figure 3 of Dr. Spemann's paper, 

 •which shows a reconstructiou of the hyomandibular fold of liana teni'poraria 

 at a similar s'age. I find tbat the fold in B'lfo lentiyinosus is in all essen- 

 tial respects similar. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



It now remains for us to })oint out the differences between the 

 hyomandibular fold in the present and preceding stages and, if 

 possible, to ascertain how such differences have been produced. 

 In the first place, one will recall that the outer border of the fold 

 in the last stage described a gentle curve, arching from above 

 downward and forward, and that throughout the greater part of its 

 length this boi'der approached very closely the external epiblast. 

 In the present stage the arch described by the outer border ie 

 interrupted about its middle by a club-shaped " diverticulum," 

 which, again, is the onl}^ portion of the fold which approaches 

 closely the external epithelium. The remainder of the outer bor- 

 der lies a considerable distance below the skin. Again, a compari- 

 son of coronal sections shows that the anterior extension of the 

 fold is more marked than in the earlier stage. Hence there are 

 at least three differences to be accounted for, i.e., (1) the recession 

 of the outer border of the fold from the external epithelium; (2) 

 the formatiou of the blind, distal " diverticulum," which still 

 retains the original position of the fold near the skin, and (3) 

 the more anterior dii'ection taken by the fold. 



In order to account for these changes it is evident that at least 

 two factors must be borne in mind. These are (1) the growth 

 process — i.e., the general increase in size of the parts in accordance 

 with the growth of the individual — and (2) the differentiation of 

 new structures. First, as regards the recession of the outer border 

 of the fold from the skin: By comparing the figures illustrating 

 the two stages, one will observe that a considerable increase in the 

 transverse diameter of the head has taken place, whereas little, if 

 any, increase has occurred iu the vertical plane. On the other 

 hand the pharynx has not increased concomitantly in size, but, 

 instead, has undergone an actual decrease, so that it is not only 

 relatively, but also absolutely, smaller in size than in the earlier 

 stage. However, between the points of origin of the hyoman- 

 dibular fold the pharyngeal cavity i-etains approximately its orig- 

 inal width, a feature due to the fact that in this region it forms a 

 pair of shallow evaginatious (fig. 16). The smaller size of the 

 pharyngeal cavity can be readily made out in the transverse sec- 

 tions (compare figs. 5-7 with 10-14). This reduction is in all 

 probability connected with the increase in amount of mesenchyme 

 and particularly with the segregation of the latter to form the Anla- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



(jen of the cartilages and muscles. The cartilages are laid down 

 close to the wall of the pharynx, and with their increase in size the 

 latter is naturally reduced; while at the same time the increase in 

 amount of the general mesenchyme accounts for the increase in 

 width of the entire head. 



As a consequence of the retarded growth of the pharynx and of 

 the increase in width of the head it follows that, unless there is 

 sufficient rapidity of growth in the fold to compensate for the 

 arrested growth of the pharynx, the distal extremity of the 

 hyomandibular fold will be removed more and more from the exte- 

 rior and that ultimately it will come to lie quite deeply. To such 

 causes, I think, must be attributed the recession of the hyoman- 

 dibular fold from the exterior. The head has increased in width, 

 while the pharynx has remained stationary, and even been reduced 

 in size, so that its appendage, the fold, quite naturally recedes from 

 the ectoderm. 



But this explanation suggests another problem: Why does the 

 fold not exhibit sufficient rapidity of growth to enable it to retain 

 throughout its original position near the external epithelium, as in 

 the case of the remaining visceral-clefts, and, moreover, why does 

 it retain this position at one point, i.e., where the blind, bulbous 

 "diverticulum" terminates? This question brings us to our 

 second topic — the formation of the " diverticulum." This part is 

 not, I consider, a new formation, but merely that portion of the 

 fold which has managed by its normal growth to retain its original 

 position near the ectoderm. In this connection I wish again to 

 call attention to the condition in stage II. The distal border then 

 formed a gentle arch, which for a considerable part of its extent 

 was in close proximity to the skin. However, at both its dorsal 

 and ventral extremities this border recedes progressively more and 

 more from the exterior until finally it blends at both ends with 

 the lining of the pharynx. Hence in sections the dorsal and 

 ventral portions of the distal border are seen at varying levels 

 below the ectoderm, while the crown (of the arched plate) is situ- 

 ated near the latter (compare figs. 2-7). Fig. 6 is instructive in 

 this connection. Take the fold as shown on the right side. It will 

 be seen that the distal edge is in close proximity to the ectoderm 

 for a considerable part of its length. However, the upper portion 

 of this border is closer to the ectoderm than the remainder. This 




238 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^larcll, 



part represents a region slightly dorsal to the middle portion of the 

 distal border. Below this the edge recedes to a slight extent from 

 the exterior and in its middle portion forms a slight, barely per- 

 ceptible depression. If we now conceive that in the future growth 

 of the animal all the lower portion of the distal edge remains 

 stationary and that the middle depression deepens considerably, 

 while the upper portion alone remains in proximity to the ecto- 

 derm, then we should obtain a condition very similar to that shown 

 in fig. 12, except that complete outward extension of the fold is 

 not shown in the figure (see instead fig. 10). In fig. 12 the 

 arrested ventral portion can be seen as an extension of the right 

 inferior angle of the pharynx, while the concavity between it and 

 the plate-liiie hyomandibular fold is the much-deepened depression 

 (see also fig. 11). In the latter figure the lower portion of the 

 fold can be seen as a blunt extension from the ventre -lateral wall 

 of the pharynx, while the flattened, oval mass external to and 

 above it is the dorsal portion, or, as we have temporarily termed 

 it, the " diverticulum." More posteriorly, as shown in fig. 12, 

 this " diverticulum " becomes continuous Avitli the proximal por- 

 tion of the fold, and accordingly the area embraced between these 

 two portions anteriorly represents the depression, which we saw 

 beginning in fig. 6. One will notice that in this area a muscle — 

 the depressor mandibulse (m.cZ.m.) — has just attained attachment 

 to the Anlacje of the quadrate cartilage, while external to it its 

 companion muscle, the depressor ossis hyoidei Qm.d.h.), has 

 acquired attachment to the tip of the processus muscularis. The 

 ''diverticulum" lies between these two muscles and, as already 

 mentioned, extends anteriorly between them until it reaches the 

 anterior surface of the outer muscle (depressor ossis hyoidei), 

 around which it curves outward (fig. 10, also 17 and 18). In the 

 behavior of these two muscles lies the clue to the solution of the 

 problem under consideration. One will recall that both of these 

 muscles belong originally to the hyoid arch, and consequently their 

 acquirement of attachment to ^he quadrate is a later affair. In 

 stage II the original hyoidean muscle-mass, from which these two 

 are subsequently differentiated, extends in its long axis almost 

 vertically and is situated entirely behind the hyomandibular fold 

 (see figs. 2-7). Later, however, as the muscle increases in size 

 its long axis becomes extended in an obliquely anterior direction, 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIHA. 239 



tlie superior border faciDg forward. At this time the commou 

 muscle divides into an inner and anterior mass, the depressor man- 

 dibular, and an outer and posterior mass, the depressor ossis 

 hyoidei. With subsequent growth both muscles extend forward 

 more and more until one of them — the depressor mandibulse — 

 invades the area intervening between the skin and the inferior por- 

 tion of the distal edge of the hyomandibular fold at the point 

 indicated by the slight depression shown in fig. 6 (x). Here its 

 anterior extremity comes into close relation with the segregating 

 Anlage of the quadrate at a point just in front of and below the 

 fold. The outer muscle — the depressor ossis hyoidei — also acquires 

 attachment to the quadrate Anlage, but at a point above and pos- 

 terior to the fold. 



I have just mentioned that the depressor mandibulae extends for- 

 ward in the space between the lower portion of the distal border 

 of the hyomandibular fold and the skin. With this invasion an 

 effective barrier is interposed betw'een the two ; and as a result of 

 the subsequent increase in size of the muscle and of the extension 

 in Avidth of the head, it follows that this lower portion of the 

 hyomandibular fold will be arrested in its growth and will conse- 

 quently come to be more and more removed from the exterior. 

 At the same time the segregation of the mesenchyme to form carti- 

 lage Anlagen interposes additional barriers to the outward growth of 

 the fold. Hence it is possible to understand why it is that the 

 lower part of the fold should lie so far beneath tiie ectoderm as 

 shown in the present stage (figs. 11, 16, 17). On the other hand, 

 the dorsal portion of the hyomandibular fold — i.e., that which 

 forms the " diverticulum " — is situated above the depx'essor man- 

 dibul?e, so that the latter does not interfere with its normal growth 

 and as a result this portion of the fold still retains its proximity to 

 the skin. With the increase in width of the head it has been carried 

 outward with the skin. In its proximal portion, however, this 

 part also has been encroached upon by the developing depressor 

 mandibulffi, and as a result it presents the form of a long-drawn- 

 out cord, narrow and flattened in its proximal part and swollen in 

 its terminal part, where it is not encroached upon to any great 

 extent by the surrounding structures. 



Along the dorsal edge of the fold no well-marked changes, so 

 far as I have been able to determine, seem to have taken place. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



111 the figures (particularly figs. 17 and 18 [leftside]) one will 

 notice that the distal extremity is removed some distance from the 

 skin, but this appearance, I consider, is simply produced by the 

 obliquely ventral direction taken by the dorsal border, as has been 

 already described. 



This brings us to our third problem, i.e., the more pronounced 

 anterior extension of the fold. This, I consider, is correlated with 

 the growth anteriorly of the two hyoidean muscles. Naturally as 

 these extend forward they carry the fold with them. As a result 

 of this the posterior surface of the fold comes to face outward, and 

 the anterior inward. Hence in transverse sections structures 

 external to the fold are also morphologically posterior, whilst 

 those internal to it are morphologically anterior (compare trans- 

 verse with coronal sections of present stage). 



Stage IV. — Young tadpole. Opercular fold well developed, 

 ending freely posteriorly and with the ends of the external gills 

 protruding beyond its posterior margin. The various tissues for 

 the most part clearly differentiated. True cartilage developed in 

 the mandibular and hyoid arches (PI. VIII, figs. 15, 19; PI. IX, 

 figs. 23, 24). 



Beginning anteriorly the distal, blind extremity of the " diver- 

 ticulum " appears as a transversely extended cord of cells, some- 

 what expanded distally, lying in the loose mesenchyme some dis- 

 tance below the external epithelium (fig. 24, Tt/m.). This cord is 

 clearly distinguished from the surrounding fibrous tissue by its 

 greater density, which naturally causes it to stain more deeply, 

 and also by the presence within its substance of yolk spherules and 

 numerous pigment granules, similar to those found in the mucous 

 membrane of the pharynx. In the present stage the yolk spher- 

 ules, although still present, are much less numerous than in the 

 earlier stages and they soon disappear altogether, so that the dark 

 pigment becomes the distinguishing feature of the cord. The 

 lower proximal portion of the hyomandibular fold can be seen in 

 the figure as a shallow protrusion (JLjm.) from the ventre -lateral 

 angle of the pharynx (compare with figs. 10 and 11). In the 

 region immediately posterior the proximal portion is practically 

 blended with the wall of the pharynx (figs. 15 and 19). In fig. 

 19 (right side) it again becomes distinguishable and soon becomes 

 continuous with the prominent diverticulum JEii. (left side of fig. 19 ). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 241 



I will now return to the " diverticulum " in order to trace its 

 further course. From its distal extremity the " diverticulum " 

 extends inward and slightly backward in close contact with the 

 anterior surface of the depressor ossis hyoidei (vi.cl.h., fig. 24, 

 Tym.), and then ascending slightly to pass over a large vessel, the 

 mandibular aortic arch (m.a.), it comes into close relation with 

 the external surface of the processus muscularis of the quadrate. 

 As it progresses inward the cord gradually decreases in diameter, so 

 that when it reaches the quadrate it is reduced to about a half or 

 even a third of the diameter of its distal expanded portion. 



After reaching the external surface of the quadrate the reduced 

 ' ' diverticulum ' ' turns sharply posteriorly at the inner edge of the 

 depressor ossis hyoidei as a minute, cylindrical cord, (ties. 23, 15, 

 19, Eu.). Here it is closely applied to the processus muscularis 

 of the quadrate. Below and internal to it is the mandibular 

 aortic arch (m. a.), while bounding it externally is a small, acces- 

 sory slip from the depressor mandibulie (fig. 15, vi.d.m'.), the main 

 body of which is attached to the quadrate anterior and internal to 

 the cord (fig. 24, m.cl.m.). The cord extends posteriorly in the 

 same position, usually closely applied to the quadrate, and showing 

 more or less reduction in size, so that in certain parts of its course 

 it is difficult to trace clearly. Throughout its entire extent, how- 

 ever, it contains numerous pigment granules, the presence of 

 which facilitates considerably the tracing of the cord, as does also 

 the scattered yolk-bodies apparent for the last time in the present 

 stage. 



In fig. 15 the cord can be seen, much reduced, just under the 

 transversely extended processus muscularis and external to the 

 mandibular aortic arch {m.a.). In fig. 19 (right side) the cord 

 (Eu.) still occupies the same relative position. Just external to it 

 is the ramus hyomandibularis of the facial nerve (vii h.). Inter- 

 nal to it the mandibular artery (m.a.) intervenes between it and 

 the pharyngeal wall. At this point the mandibular aortic arch 

 begins to turn inward in order to reach the carotid. Immediately 

 behind the artery the cord fuses with the distal extremity of the 

 diverticulum extending up from the pharyngeal wall (see fig. 19, 

 Eu., left sixle). Here both the cord and proximal portion of the 

 hyomandibular fold become continuous. The fold becomes more 

 prominent in the following sections (fig. 23, Ea.) and ultimately 

 16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



blends with the wall of the pharvnx dorsal to the inner opening 

 of the first branchial- cleft. 



To recapitulate briefly the state of the hyomandibular fold at 

 the present stage : we have found the ventral portion of the fold 

 present only as an inconspicuous protrusion of the veutro-lateral 

 angle of the pharynx. Only the dorsalmost portion of the orig- 

 inal fold is well developed, and from this tlie greatly prolonged 

 "diverticulum" extends forward as a solid coi'd of cells. The 

 latter originates posterior to the quadrato-hyoid articulation. 

 Throughout the greater part of its length the cord is closely ajiplied 

 to the outer surface of the processus muscularis. Anteriorly, 

 however, it bends sharj^ly outward in front of the depressor ossis 

 hyoidei and terminates blindly as a somewhat bulbous enlargement 

 in the subcutaneous tissue. 



I may here describe briefly the condition of the neighboring 

 skeletal structures, since in the present stage these have acquired 

 the relations which they retain throughout the entire larval period. 

 The animal has now passed beyond the pro-cartilage stage and 

 consequently the cartilages can be readily traced. In most cases 

 they already show a well-defined perichondrium. The quadrate 

 cartilage is prolonged in an an tero- posterior direction almost parallel 

 with the corresponding trabecula cranii. Its course is thus quite 

 the reverse of that which characterizes its adult condition. Its 

 distal articular end is prolonged as the jirocessus articularis down- 

 ward and forward to a point beneath the anterior surface of the 

 eye and at a later period still farther forward. At its distal 

 extremity it bears the transversely placed mandibular cartilage 

 (Meckel's). The greater part of the quadrate is prolonged 

 upward and outward as a stout plate immediately underlying the 

 orbit — the processus muscularis — to the outer side of which are 

 attached the depressor mandibular and depressor ossis hyoidei. In 

 the concavity formed in the inner (and upper) surface are lodged 

 the muscles of mastication (fig. 24, k.m.). On the ventral surface 

 near the point of junction between the body of the cartilage and 

 the processus muscularis there is forming at the present stage a 

 shallow, concave articular surface for the head of the hyoid car- 

 tilage. The latter is a stout bar of cartilage extending trans- 

 versely beneath the floor of the pharynx and joined to its fellow 

 of the opposite side by the intervention of a median plate, the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



copula. In its outer portion the hyoid turns sharply upward to 

 form au ascending process, which articulates with the quadrate. 



In its anterior portion — i.e., where the processus articularis is 

 given off — the quadrate is joined to the ti*abecula of the same side 

 by an ascending bar of cartilage, the commissura quadrato-cranialis 

 anterior (Gaupp) or palato-pterygoid bar. Posteriorly again the 

 quadrate bends sharply upward and then as a stout bar (processus 

 ascendens, fig. 19, Pi-.A.) extends inward back of the eye and in 

 front of the auditory capsule to join with the trabecula just in 

 front of the basilar plate (parachordal). There is no distinct 

 separation between these connected cartilages, the matrix of each 

 being perfectly continuous with that of the others. 



It now remains to connect the conditions observed in the present 

 stage with those seen in the preceding. The chief differences 

 between the former and the latter are briefly these: (1) The rela- 

 tively much greater length of t?e " diverticulum," a condition asso- 

 ciated with the removal of the part connecting it with the 

 pharyngeal wall to a point more posterior, i. e. , back of the quadrato- 

 hyoid aiticulation; (2) the reduction in size of the middle portion 

 of the " diverticulum," and (3) the almost complete obliteration 

 of the ventro-anterior portion of the hyomandibular fold. 



These ditferences are, I believe, correlated with a continuation of 

 the same processes treated of under the description of the pre- 

 ceding stage. These are chiefly the modifications undergone by 

 the neighboring muscles and cartilages. The general growth of 

 the animal has had little, if anything, to do in producing the 

 differences between the two stages. There has been a considerable 

 increase in width of the head — an increase in which, however, the 

 contained structures have taken part. The greatea* length of the 

 " diverticulum " has been produced by the continued increase in 

 depth of the depression in the distal border of the fold. In stage 

 III this depression was relatively shallow, so that the " diverticu- 

 lum " was very short and blunt. In the present stage the 

 " diverticulum " is very long, having the form of a long, narrow 

 cord somewhat expanded at its distal extremity. The insinking 

 of the disial border was associated with the growth of the depressor 

 raaudibulse, in consequence of the latter' s acquisition of a point of 

 attachment to the quadrate in front of and below the distal border 

 of the hyomandibular fold. In the present stage this muscle has 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



increased in size and extended its area of attachment to the quad- 

 rate. It has also given off an accessory slip, which extends 

 upward external to the cord-like "diverticulum" to attach to 

 the processus muscularis (fig. 15, m.cl.m'.). Moreover, immedi- 

 ately behind the posterior edge of the depressor mandibulie, the 

 hyoid cartilage is drawn up to form an articulation with the quad- 

 rate, and following this the enlarged mandibular aortic arch turns 

 inward to join with the carotid (fig. 19, 7n.a.) just in front of the 

 point where the "diverticulum" joins the extension from the 

 pharyngeal wall (fig. 19, JEu., left side). Thus changes in three 

 structures have been instrumental in producing the deepening of 

 the depi'ession, i.e., (1) the increase in size and area of attach- 

 ment of the depressor mandibuhe; (2) the articulation of the 

 hyoid to the quadrate, and (3) the increase in size of the man- 

 dibular aortic arch. 



The reduction in size of the middle portion of the " diverticu- 

 lar" cord (compare figures vilth. fig. 11 of last stage) has been 

 associated with two factors: (1) the increase in size of the accom- 

 panying mandibular aorta, and (2) the differentiation and growth 

 of the outer, accessory slip of the depressor mandibulas. By 

 examining figure 15, one will notice the reduced cord tighlly 

 wedged in between the enlarged artery internally and the accessory 

 slip externally. 



The decrease of the ventro-anterior portion of the hyomandibular 

 fold to form a mere shallow protrusion of the ventro-lateral angle 

 of the pharynx (fig. 24, Hym.) has in all probability been pro- 

 duced by the deepening of the depression and its final blending 

 with the pharyngeal wall. Naturally, as the depression deepeued 

 its deepest part would ultimately blend with the pharyngeal wall, 

 so as to be no longer distinguishable (fig. 15). As the ventro- 

 anterior portion of the fold formed the lower border of the depres- 

 sion, it would naturally be drawn in with the deepening of the 

 depression until it formed the shallow protrusion mentioned (fig. 

 24, Hym. ) . This decrease is also accelerated by the increase in 

 size and density of the skeletal and muscular parts. 



Stage V. — Young tadpole of about 9 mm. Opercular cavity 

 communicating with the exterior by a single opening on the left 

 side. No external gills. 



The condition of the hyomandibular fold is essentially similar to 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 245 



that in the precediug stage. The tissues of the animal are more 

 compact and definitely limited than iu the last stage. The 

 external, distal extremity of the " diverticulum" (or, as I may 

 now term it, the Eustachian cord, since the structure under con- 

 sideration ultimately gives rise to the greater part of the tube of 

 that name) has the same general appearance as before. It, how- 

 ever, does not extend so far out from the processus muscularis as 

 before, a condition probably produced by the increase in size of 

 the process. A slight reduction has also taken part in this portion 

 of the cord (" diverticulum "). More marked, however, has been 

 the change in the middle portion of the cord. After extending 

 inward to the processus muscularis the cord rapidly degenerates, 

 becoming greatly flattened and much reduced in size, so that for a 

 part of its course it is very difficult to recognize, the presence of 

 scattered nuclei and numerous pigment granules alone serving to 

 mark its existence. This great reduction has been associated with 

 a continuation of the processes described in the last stage, i.e., the 

 growth of the hyoidean muscles (depressor maudibuloe and depres- 

 sor ossis hyoidei), the articulation of the hyoid with the quadrate 

 and the inci'ease in size of the mandibular artery (PI, VII, fig, 8 

 and PI, IX, fig, 25, En.). 



The cord retains the degenerate condition just described until it 

 reaches a point just back of the region where the nmudibular aorta 

 turns inward to join the carotid. A good idea of the condition of 

 the cord can be obtained from coronal sections (fig. 8). In such 

 it appears as a faint, narrow cord (£"«.), coursing in an antero- 

 posterior direction in contact with the outer surface of the pro- 

 cessus muscularis. This cord contains no lumen and shows no 

 indication of a tubal character. It contains throughout its course 

 scattered nuclei arranged end to end, and it is largely colored by 

 numerous black pigment-granules. The yolk-spherules have now 

 disappeared entirely. There is very little substance to the cord 

 and in places where nuclei and pigment are lacking it becomes 

 very ditScult to trace. 



Immediately posterior to the inflexed mandibular aorta the 

 Eustachian cord is joined to the pharyngeal wall by a narrow 

 strand of somewhat elongated cells. These cells are not easily 

 distinguishable from the cells of the surrounding connective tissue, 

 but they form a i-ather dense patch in the latter stretched between 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcb, 



the pharyngeal wall and 'the tubal Anlage. Immediately beyond 

 this region this conuecting'portiun broadens out considerably to form 

 a rather shallow bulging^ of cells from the roof of a "lateral 

 recess" (fig. 25, l.r.) or pouch of the pharynx, from the outer 

 extremity of which the thymus gland is given off. This " lateral 

 recess " is really formed by an extension outwax-d of the branchial 

 portion of the pharynx over the internal branchial openings, so- 

 that the latter are now situated on the floor of the cavity. In the 

 preceding stage this " lateral recess" was just beginning to form 

 as a slight bulging beneath the proximal portion of the tubal 

 Anlage. With the extension externally of the " lateral recess" 

 the proximal portion of the Eustachian cord comes to appear as 

 an inconspicuous protuberance over the inner part of the roof of 

 the " recess" (fig. 25, immediately internal to vii h). 



Stage VI. — Tadpole of 18 mm. Posterior limbs appearing as 

 minute buds below the root of the tail (PI. IX, fig. 26). 



In this stage the Eustachian cord has about reached the height 

 of its degeneration. The cord still maintains the same general 

 relations to the surrounding parts as before. Its distal, expanded 

 extremity remains distinct, and from thence the cord can readily 

 be traced to its characteristic position next to the outer surface of 

 the processus muscularis. Here, however, it soon becomes very 

 small and then can be traced only with the greatest difficulty. 

 The cord lies immediately above the mandibular aorta, and by 

 following the latter it may be traced as a minute, more or less 

 flattened pigmented patch, which in certain parts contains one or 

 two nuclei not readily distinguishable from the nuclei of the sur- 

 rounding fibrous tissue (fig. 26, En.). Immediately posterior to 

 the quadrato-hyoid articulation the cord again enlarges slightly 

 and can be traced thence for a considerable distance. Then in the 

 region where the ramus hyomaudibularis begins to come into close 

 relations with its external surface all distinct traces of the cord are 

 lost. Nothing more of the cord is to be made out until we come 

 to the region where the mandibular artery turns inward, where 

 for a short space the cord is again revealed and then terminates 

 without forming any clear connection with the pharyngeal wall. 

 This most posterior fragment of the cord is situated below the 

 quadrate, dorsal to the upper anterior end of the " lateral recess " 

 of the pharynx. There is no distinct proliferation from the dorso- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELPHIA. 247 



internal wall of this portion to indicate the proximal, connecting 

 part of the tubal cord. The proliferation has very likely opened 

 out with the formation of the " lateral recess," and has been merged 

 into the dorsal wall of the latter. 



It thus appears that in the present stage the Eustachian cord for 

 the greater part of its length has undergone remarkable fragmen- 

 tation, having broken up into a number of sections of variable 

 length. Each of these fragments, however, retains exactly the 

 same relations to the surrounding structures that the corresponding 

 part of the cord showed in the preceding stage. It is quite possible 

 that the various fragments may still be connected by the trans- 

 parent cell-walls of the cord, and in that case the apparent frag- 

 mentation is simply due to the restriction of the more vital, stain- 

 able portions to areas less subject to the action of unfavorable 

 forces. I am somewhat inclined to consider this the actual condi- 

 tion in the present stage, since in a longitudinal series I have been 

 enabled to follow out with great care a pale, almost transparent 

 cord connecting some of the fragments. Posteriorly this cord 

 approaches very closely the wall of the pharynx. I have not been 

 able to make out any distinct connection between the two, but 

 their proximity would incline me to believe such a union to exist. 

 Still I have not been able to satisfy myself on this point. 



I have not been able to determine to my satisfaction the factors 

 which have been concerned in the degeneration of the Eustachian 

 cord. One of them is probably to be found in the pressure exerted 

 by the surrounding structures, particularly by the two muscles, 

 already mentioned. Owing probably to its unfavorable position 

 the tubal cord appears to have little, if any, power of indepen- 

 dent growth. It therefore may have been acted on by the growth 

 anteriorly of the head whereby a pull has been exerted on it, 

 causing its wall to extend and its contents to be restricted to more 

 or less limited regions of the cord. 



Stage VII. — Tadpole of 21 mm. Hind limbs well developed. 



This stage very closely resembles the preceding. Owing to an 

 accident the more anterior sections of the Eustachian cord in the 

 specimen examined are lacking, but I have no doubt but that this 

 portion of the cord in the present stage corresponds in all essential 

 respects with that in the preceding, since in the succeeding stage 

 the anterior portion is very similar to that in stage VI. 80 far 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^Mavcll, 



as the reraaiuing parts are concerned, they present the same frag- 

 mentary character as in the preceding stage, being in certain loca- 

 tions almost unrecognizable. I noticed in the present series (and 

 likewise in several later ones) that there is no necessary corre- 

 spondence either in the number, length or distribution of the frag- 

 ments of the two sides. In the case of the specimen of the present 

 stage examined the sections were almost exactly transverse, so that 

 the same parts were cut on both sides. Yet the tubal cord may 

 be present for a considerable distance on one side and apparently 

 altogether absent on the other. This irregularity is a marked 

 feature during the entire metamorphic period. I find that there 

 is also marked individual variation in this respect. This vari- 

 ability would seem to indicate that the character of the fragmen- 

 tation is not due to some inherited tendency, but is produced by 

 mechanical forces exerted by the surrounding structures. 



Posteriorly the Eustachian cokI terminates suddenly in the usual 

 position, dorsal to the anterior extremity of the " lateral recess " 

 of the branchial portion of the pharynx. In the same region a 

 prominent proliferation arises from the dorsal wall of the " recess," 

 and extends upward to the same relative position as that occupied 

 by the cord in the more anterior sections. This structure may 

 represent the same mass of cells which originally established the 

 connection between the tubal cord and the wall of the pharynx, but 

 of this interpretation I am uncertain, since I was unable to discover 

 any sign of such proliferation in the preceding stage or in a num- 

 ber of later stages. Possibly its occurrence or absence is a matter 

 of individual variation. 



There has been but little change in the skeleton since the last 

 period. Posteriorly, however, the quadrate has developed a pos- 

 teriorly projecting processus oticus, which comes in contact with 

 the ventral surface of the auditory capsule. The processus oticus 

 arises at the angle formed by the body of the quadrate with the 

 processus ascendens. The stapes appears for the first time as an 

 oval chondrification within the membrane closing the fenestra 

 ovalis. There are no distinct traces of a columella auris. 



Stage VIII. — Tadpole of 21 mm. Preceding the appearance of 

 the fore-limbs. 



At this time we have the earliest distinct^ppearance of the annu- 

 lar cartilage (PI. IX, lig. 28, An.). About opposite the point where 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPIirA. 249 



the pteiygo-palatiue bar (processus quadrate- cranial is anterior) 

 joins the quadrate, a very coaspicuous proliferation from the peri- 

 chondrium of the latter occurs. This proliferation forms a dense 

 strand of cells, which reach outward in the subcutaneous tissue 

 and aggregate themselves in a somewhat concentric fashion about 

 the distal, expanded termiuatiou of the Eustachian cord (Tym.). 

 The dense patch there formed is the Anlage of the future annu- 

 lar cartilage. From this region the Eustachian cord pursues the 

 same course that characterized the preceding stages. The cord 

 is, however, much more distinct than in any of the latter, and its 

 tubular character is plainly indicated by its nuclei, which are now 

 grouped about the periphery of the cord, thus giving the latter the 

 appearance of a duct with an obliterated lumen (PI. XI, fig. 29, 

 En.). In certain parts of the cord slight indications of a central 

 lumen can be made out, but, as a rule, any cavities that do appear 

 are neither very extensive nor pronounced. The cord, however, as 

 in the preceding stages, becomes smaller as it extends posteriorly 

 and in the region of the quadrato-hyoid articulation disappears. It 

 soon reappears, however. Posterior to the hyoid articulation the 

 cord again becomes much reduced, but does not lose its continuity 

 with the most posterior portion. In the most posterior part of its 

 course the cord again enlarges, becomes clearly tubular, and ex- 

 hibits a more or less well-defined lumen. In this portion the cord 

 occupies its characteristic position, ventral to the quadrate cartilage 

 and internal to the ramus hyomandibularis, which in the region of 

 the quadrato-hyoid articulation ascends from the ventral portion of 

 the hyoid arch to come into close relation with the outer wall of 

 the cord. From the dorsal wall of the " lateral recess " of the 

 pharynx a conspicuous strand of cells arises, the dorsal end of 

 Avhich closely approaches the Eustachian cord, but before actual 

 contact takes place the cord rather suddenly terminates. I am 

 not certain of the significance of this strand. It may be the part 

 which originally connected the cord with the pharynx, but of this 

 I am uncertain, since I found no evidence of it in stage VI. 



Stage IX. — Tadpole of 18 mm. Both fore and hind limbs 

 present. 



This stage marks the commencement of the metamorphosis. 

 Since the changes which the Eustachian cord (or tube) undergoes 

 during this period are obviously correlated with modifications 




250 rROCEEDixGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



takiDg place simultaneously iu the skeletal structures, it is neces- 

 sary, in order to follow the former, to obtain a right conception of 

 the latter. Hence in the present stage I will first treat of the 

 essential skeletal parts. In the first place, the axis of the quad- 

 rate extends in a more dorso-ventral direction than formerly, so 

 that noAv the mandibular articulation lies below the anterior edge 

 of the eye, instead of being entirely in front of it as before. This 

 position implies that the lower part of the quadrate has moved or 

 rotated backward through a slight angle. The processus quadrato- 

 crauialis anterior (pterygo-palatine) is now considerably elongated 

 in an antero-posterior direction, a change obviously associated with 

 the backward rotation of the quadrate. The processus muscularis 

 (orbital) begins to show signs of degeneration, especially along its 

 dorso-external edge. The hyoid still articulates to the ventral sur- 

 face of the quadrate. Posteriorly the processus ascendens has 

 degenerated and consequently the quadrate has lost its connection 

 with the wall of the brain-case, but instead it now joins by means 

 of its processus oticus the wall of the auditory capsule anterior to 

 the fenestra ovalis. In the membrane closing the latter the stapes 

 now appears as a large, oval mass of fully differentiated cartilage. 

 The columella auris is a delicate rod of primitive cartilage, closely 

 applied to the wall of the capsule. Anteriorly it terminates with- 

 out forming any connection whatever with either the quadrate or 

 any portion of the Eustachian tube and posteriorly it unites with 

 the stapes. The columella is most distinct and its tissue most 

 compact in its posterior portion, so that it cannot be regarded as 

 a derivative of the quadrate. 



As a consequence of the posterior rotation of the distal portion 

 of the quadrate, the distal extremity of the Eustachian cord is 

 now situated somewhat posterior to its former position, but its 

 relation to the immediately surrounding structures is the same as 

 before, since these likewise have been aff^ected by the quadrate's 

 change of axis. The annular cartilage, now a dense cellular mass, 

 is situated under the anterior margin of the eye and above the 

 mandibular articulation. To its ventral sui face the more anterior 

 fibres of the depressor ossis hyoidei have acquired attachment. 

 Imbedded in the cartilage is the distal end of the Eustachian cord, 

 the future tympanic cavity. The general appearance of the cord 

 is similar to that in the preceding stage. The cord still shows 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



fragmentation, allliougli the length and distribution of the frag- 

 ments differ on the two sides. No connection between the cord 

 and the pharynx can be determined with certainty, although the 

 proliferation attached to the dorsal wall of the "lateral recess" 

 is still present. 



Stage X. — Tailed toad of 15.5 mm. Fore and hind limbs well 

 developed. 



This stage very closely resembles the preceding, the most marked 

 differences being the greater autero-posterior elongation of the 

 processus quadrato-cranialis anterior and the associated greater 

 posterior rotation of the quadrate. The Eustachian cord, also, 

 is very distinct, particularly in its anterior and posterior portions. 

 In the region just back of the quadrato-hyoid articulation it is 

 greatly reduced and traceable only with difficulty. In several 

 places the cord shows a distinct lumen. There are no distinct 

 signs of a proliferation attached to the pharyngeal wall extending 

 toward the cord. 



Stage XI. — Tailed toad, 6.8 mm., tail 1.5 mm. Close of the 

 metamorphosis. 



The processus quadrato-cranialis anterior has now increased con- 

 siderably in length, so that it extends in a direct antero -posterior 

 direction as in the adult toad. The axis of the quadrate has 

 attained an almost vertical direction, but it still extends somewhat 

 forward, its distal, articular end being located under the middle or 

 posterior part of the eye. The hyoid still maintains its union with 

 the quadrate. More posteriorly, in the region of the auditory cap- 

 sule, the columella auris can be traced farther forward. At its 

 anterior, distal extremity it is prolonged forward as a dense strand 

 of cells, which forms a connection with the posterior surface of 

 the quadrate. Only the more posterior portion of the columellar 

 rod is formed of true cartilage, the anterior portion being as yet 

 only a dense, undifferentiated mass of cells. 



The most conspicuous changes which the tympano-Eustachian 

 tube has undergone since the preceding period have been asso- 

 ciated with the change of axis of the suspensory cartilages. As a 

 result of this the tympanic portion of the tube, together with the 

 annular cartilage, has moved backward to a region below the 

 posterior portion of the eye. The tube, as a whole, exhibits the 

 same fragmentary character as hitherto, and I have remarked here. 




2'52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



as in a number of other stages, a ciitlerence in the coudiliou of the 

 tubes of the two sides. Posteriorly the tube terminates without 

 forming any connection with the phax'ynx. The proliferation 

 from the pharynx is not very distinct. It probably tends to dis- 

 appear in connection with the degeneration of the branchial appar- 

 atus. 



Stage XII. — Tailed toad, 7 mm. Close of metamorphosis. 



The quadrate cartilage now stands almost vertical, its distal, 

 articular extremity lying under the posterior border of the eye. 

 The hyoid bar has separated completely from the quadrate and its 

 dorsal extremity is now joined by the intervention of a dense 

 strand of cells to the base of the auditory capsule. 



The distal part of the tympano-Eustachian tube now lies imme- 

 diately posterior and ventral to the eye. Since the distal portion 

 of the quadrate rotates backward more rapidly than the remaining 

 part, it results that the posterior, hitherto ventral, surface of the 

 cartilage forms a shallow concavity. From this behavior it follows 

 that the distal, expanded portion of the tube — i.e., tympanic por- 

 tion— comes to lie farther posterior in relation to the rest of the 

 cord, so that the latter no longer presents an almost direct antero- 

 posterior course, but instead now hes in an almost transverse plane, 

 except for a slight antei'ior inclination. The tympanic region of 

 the tube is thus brought into relation with the auditory capsule. 

 In the present period it has not quite reached the region of the 

 latter, but is not far removed, being located just back of the eye. 

 Another feature shown by the present stage is the union of the 

 various fragments of which it was hitherto composed. This union 

 is also probably to be connected with the quadrate's change of 

 axis, since this would result in carrying the more anterior frag- 

 ments backward and thus bringing thera into closer relation with 

 the posterior parts. At present the tube can be traced without a 

 break throughout its entire course. This fact speaks strongly for 

 the view that these parts have all along been united by an attenu- 

 ated cord. The fragments are simply the contents of this cord 

 which hav^e been restricted to certain areas. As a result of the 

 backward rotation of the quadrate, the stretching to which the cord 

 had hitherto been subjected is relieved and accordingly the vari- 

 ous fragments of the substance flow together, thus producing the 

 union described. Proxiraally, however, ' the tube forms no con- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



nectiou ^vitll the pharyngeal wall, Jjut immediately internal to its 

 proximal termination the pharynx sends out a narrow cleft between 

 the hyoid and the base of the auditory capsule. Posteriorly the 

 tube ceases immediately in front of the dense strand connecting 

 the hyoid cornua with the auditory capsule, so that at this stage the 

 tube occupies its definitive position between the quadrate and hyoid 

 cartilages. As a result of the changes that have taken place in 

 the hyoid its nerve, the ramus hyomandibularis, now lies ventral 

 and posterior to the tube — a position which characterizes it in the 

 adult condition. lu the branchial region the entire branchial 

 apparatus, including the " lateral recess" of the pharynx, has be- 

 come largely obliterated. 



Stage XIII. — Young toad, G mm. Metamorphosis complete. 



This period marks the close of the metamorphosis. The infe- 

 rior, articular portion of the quadrate extends more posterior, so 

 that the quadrate on its posterior surface shows a marked con- 

 cavity. The general course of the quadrate is about as follows: 

 Dorsally from its union with the base of the auditory capsule it 

 extends forward and downward for some little distance, it then 

 describes a wide curve downward and backward for the remainder 

 of its length, so that its distal end, bearing the mandibular car- 

 tilage, now comes to lie under or even slightly behind its dorsal, 

 proximal extremity. Tiie hyoid arch is now fused completely with 

 the auditory capsule, the intervening cellular strand having become 

 cartilaginous. 



The annular cartilage is now located posterior to the eye and 

 ventral to the anterior portion of the auditory capsule. It closely 

 underlies the skin and is external to the outer surface of the 

 quadrate. The Eustachian tube itself differs but little from its 

 condition in the preceding stage, except that its lumen, where 

 present, is more distinct and extensive. A short distance above 

 the tube the distal extremity of the columella auris may be observed 

 as a dense cellular mass, which posteriorly grades into true car- 

 tilage. 



Stcuje X/F. — Young toad, about 9 mm (figs. 30, 31). 



In this stage the tympano-Eustachian passage has the same 

 general position and relations that distinguish it in the fully mature 

 animal. Relatively it is not so large as in the latter, nor is its 

 lumen complete throughout, but in all other respects it is essentially 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [jMaVcll, 



like the advilt structui-e. Figs, 30 and 31 illustrate the condition 

 of the tube at this time. In fig. 30 we have a ti-ansverse section 

 through one side of the head immediately back of the eye. To the 

 outer side is shown the quadrate cartilage, which in the present 

 stage stands almost vertical and hence is shown in the figure cut 

 throughout the greater part of its length. External to the upper 

 portion of the cartilage is the tympanic portion of the Eustachian 

 tube, showing a slight lumen (Tijm.). I have another specimen of 

 approximately the same age in wdiich the lumen is much larger, 

 forming a considerable cavity. Underlying this portion is the 

 tympanic or annular cartilage, which in its ventral portion, at 

 least, is completely chondrified {An.). The fully formed car- 

 tilage does not, however, form a complete ring. Internally the 

 tube approaches the outer surface of the quadrate, as was the case 

 in the earlier stages. Applied to the dorso-external wall of the 

 tympanic cavity is the distal extremity of the columella auris, at 

 present a very compact cellular mass, not yet differentiated into 

 true cartilage {CI.). The apparent inclusion of the columella 

 within the tympanic cavity is produced by the subsequent growth 

 of the latter around this portion of the cartilage. Attached to 

 the ventral surface of the annular cartilage are fibres of the 

 depressor ossis 'hyoidei {m.d.h.). The attachment of the muscle 

 to the cartilage was acquired soon after the earliest Anlage of the 

 latter had appeared. At its ventral end the muscle has lost its 

 attachment to the hyoid cartilage and has acquired a new insertion 

 into the angle of the mandible, so that like the depressor man- 

 dibulse it serves to depress the latter (compare also fig. 31). The 

 bulk of the muscle lies posterior to the Eustachian tube. Internal 

 to the muscle and between it and the quadrate are two blood- 

 vessels, which correspond to the original mandibular aorta {m.a.). 

 This vessel, as we have seen, was an important, one during the 

 tadpole period, but during the metamorphosis it underwent some 

 profound changes. Its middle portion largely degenerated, so 

 that the vessel became divided into a proximal and a distal half. 

 The vessel undergoes other changes, but these I have not been able 

 to follow satisfactorily with the material at hand. 



Fig. 31 shows a section thi-ough the tympano-Eustachian tube 

 near its posterior boundary. The quadrate {q. ) is here seen in 

 two separate portions, a dorsal and a ventral. This condition can 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



be readily understood by referring to the description of tlie car- 

 tilage as given in stage XIII. It suffices to mention that the 

 section passes back of the point where the quadrate curves back- 

 ward on itself, so that the dorsal is the j^roximal, the ventral the 

 distal portion of the cartilage. The distal portion bears the man- 

 dible. Underlying the proximal portion is the Eustachian tube 

 {Eu.), here shown in three detached segments. Other sections, 

 however, show these segments continuous, so that the tube is now 

 complete. jMoreover, the proximal innermost segment is continu- 

 ous with the pharynx and in reality represents a diverticulum 

 (cUv.) from the latter. In the other specimen that I have of this 

 stage this portion is continuous with the pharynx, but its distal 

 extremity ends blindly without forming a connection with the 

 Eustachian tube. In the toad of stage XIII this diverticulum of 

 the pharynx was also present, and connecting it with the widely 

 separated tubal Anlage was a dense strand of connective tissue 

 cells, whose long diameters were extended in a direction coinciding 

 with a line drawn between the separated parts. By means of this 

 diverticulum the tympano-Eustachian tube is now united to the 

 pharynx. The tube presents throughout an irregular lumen, bounded 

 by a well-defined columnar epithelium. That portion of the tube 

 which is most externally situated is the posterior pari; of the 

 tympanic cavity {Tym.). Attached to the dorsal wall of the 

 latter is the columella auris (C/. ). The ramus hyomandibularis 

 of the facial nerve is not shown in this section, since, owing to 

 the posterior flexure of the quadrate and the separation of the 

 hyoid from the latter, the nerve now lies entirely posterior to the 

 tube. 



SUMIMAPvY. 



The results recorded in the preceding pages may be briefly sum- 

 marized as follows : 



1. The tympano-Eustachian passage is in the main derived from 

 the dorsalmost portion of the hyomaudibular fold (cleft). 



2. In the earliest stages described, the hyomaudibular fold is 

 present as a solid, plate-like fold extending outward and forward 

 beneath the eye region and terminating laterally in a free edge 

 situated a short distance below the ectoderm. Its attachment to 

 the ectoderm is lost at about this stajre. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



3. At first the outer or distal edge of the hyomandibular fold 

 is smooth and uubrokeii throughout its entire extent. Later, this 

 edge becomes interrupted in its middle portion by the formation of 

 a progressively deepening depression, which ultimately reaches the 

 pharyngeal wall and divides the hyomandibular fold into two 

 parts — a dorsal cord-like portion, the future tyrapano-Eustachian 

 passage, and a ventral portion forming a shallow sacculation to 

 the ventro-lateral portion uf the pharyngeal cavity. 



4. The ventral portion of the hyomandibular fold ceases to be 

 recognizable after the late tadj)ole stages. It is this portion which 

 Villy considers as the last remnant of the hyomandibular fold. 



5. The earliest evidence of the degeneration of the hyoman- 

 dibular fold is afforded l)y the recession of its outer edge from the 

 neighborhood of the external ectoderiu. Only the dorsalmost 

 portion of the fold continues in intimate proximity to the skin. 

 The Avithdrawal of the remainder is associated with (1) the reduc- 

 tion in size of the pharynx, in consequence of the segregation of 

 the surrounding mesenchyme to form the Anlagen of muscles and 

 cartilages, and (2) the development of the muscles of the hyoid 

 arch — the depressor mandibuke and ossis hyoidei. Of these mus- 

 cles the depressor maudibulre extends forward between the skin 

 and the outer border of the hyomandibular fold and acquires 

 attachment to the developing quadrate cartilage in front of the 

 fold. It thus interposes an effective barrier to further outward 

 extension of the fold. Only the dorsalmost portion of the fold 

 remains unimpeded by the muscle, and this accordingly retains its 

 proximity to the ectoderm and in the subsequent growth of the 

 head is cari'ied outward as a narrow, cord-like strand expanded at 

 its outer extremity into a club-shaped swelling. This portion I 

 have designated the "diverticulum." It is th.^ Anlage of the 

 tympano -Eustachian passage. 



6. The outer hyoidean muscle, the depressor ossis hyoidei, also 

 acquires attachment to the quadrate Anlage at a point above and 

 posterior to the hyomandibular cleft. The "diverticulum" or 

 Anlage of the tympauo-Eustachian passage thus comes to he 

 between the two hyoidean muscles. 



7. The growth anteriorly of the hyoidean muscles produces a 

 marked antero-posterior extension of the hyomandibular fold and 

 of its derivative, the tyrapano-Eustachian Anlage. This antero- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



posterior direction taken by the tubal Anhuje is cliaracteristic of it 

 during the entire larval period, 



8. The further degeneration of the hyomaudibular fold is corre- 

 lated with the subsequent increase in size of the muscles already 

 mentioned, the union of the hyoid cartilage with the quadrate and 

 the enlargement of the mandibular aortic arch. 



9. After the degeneration of the hyomaudibular fold the 

 Anlage of the tympauo- Eustachian passage persists as a minute, 

 solid cord, extending along the outer surface of the pi-ocessus 

 muscularis of the quadrate. Posteriorly it is attached to the wall 

 of the pharynx at a point posterior to the quadrato-hyoid articu- 

 lation. Anteriorly and distally it expands to form the club-shaped 

 Anlage of the tympanic cavity. 



10. During the active tadpole period the tympano-Eustachian 

 Anlage undergoes marked degeneration. This degeneration is 

 confined to the middle and posterior parts of the Anlage, the 

 distal expanded portion retaining its original relative size through- 

 out the entire larval period. The degeneration is in all probability 

 connected with the growth of the two muscles — depressor man- 

 dibul?e and ossis hyoidei — between which it lies. Owing to the 

 lack of space it is unable to keep pace with the surrounding struc- 

 tures in the subsequent growth of the animal. 



11. In the early tadpole period the tympano-Eustachian Anlage 

 is continuous posterioily with the wall of the pharynx. Later the 

 connection between the two apparently disappears, though the time 

 of its disappearance seems to vary in different individuals. An 

 indistinct strand may continue to unite the two parts, but this 

 I have been unable to demonstrate. 



12. The degeneration of the tympano-Eustachian Anlage is 

 carried to an extreme in the later tadpole stages. Xi this time it 

 is apparently broken up into a number of fragments of varying 

 length. This fragmentation is probably more appareuC than real, 

 being produced by the restriction of the more vital staiuable sub- 

 stance of the tubal Anlage to areas less subject to the pressure of 

 the neighboring structures. The irregular distribution of tha 

 fragments, both in different individuals and on different sides of 

 the same individual, favors the view that a compressed, transparent 

 cord still connects the apparently separate parts. In one specimen 



17 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



(tadpole of about 18 mm.) I have been enabled to trace out such 

 a connecting cord. 



13. Regeneration of the tyrapano-Eustachian Anlage begins at 

 a period immediately precedina: the period when the fore-limbs 

 break out of the opercular cavity. 



14. The later metamorphosis of the tubal Anlarje is connected 

 with the modifications of the neighboring skeletal structures, par- 

 ticularly Avith the posterior rotation of the quadrate. By this 

 means the tubal cord comes into relation Avith the auditory region 

 of the skull and the various fragments are brought closer together, 

 so that they can readily unite. 



15. The acquisition of a lumen by the tubal Anlage takes place 

 gradually, beginning at the close of the metamorj)hosis. Details 

 apparently vary in difl^erent individuals. 



16. Completion of the tympano-Eustachian passage is efiected 

 by an outgrowth from the pharynx which unites with the tubal 

 A7ilage. 



17. The final position of the tympano-Eustachian tube between 

 the mandibular and hyoid bars is produced by the separation of 

 the latter from the (juadrate and its attachment to the auditory 

 capsule posterior to the tube. 



18. The annular cartilage arises at a stage immediately pre- 

 ceding the protrusion of the fore-limbs. Its Aiilage forms a dense 

 cellular strand derived from the perichondrium of the quadrate 

 and surrounding the tympanic portion of the tubnl Anlage. It 

 does not begin to form fully dififerentiated cartilage until after the 

 close of the metamorphosis. 



19. The stapes arises within the membrane closing the fenestra 

 ovalis. It has no connection with any of the visceral -arches. 



20. The columella auris is first met with in the early stages of 

 the metamorphosis, as a compact cellular strand extending forward 

 from the stapes and terminating imperceptibly in the connective 

 tissue. It continues to grow forward and acquires connection with 

 the quadrate. Continued growth brings it in contact with the 

 tympanic cavity. Choudrificatiou begins in the posterior portion 

 of the rod. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



259 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES YI, VII, VIII, IX. 



The drawings were outlined by aid of the camera lucida, and Avith the 

 exception of figures 26 and 29 were all drawn to the same scale. With the 

 exception of the two mentioned they are also slightly diagramatic — those 

 on plates VI-YIII reduced one- third ; on plate IX, one-half. 



Reference Letters. 



An. — Annular cartilage. 



Aud. — Auditory capsule. 



Car. — Carotid artery. 



C7i. — Chorda. 



CI. — Columella auris. 



dio. — Diverticulum from pharynx. 



E.—Eje. 



Eu. — Eustachian cord (or tube). 



Ext. — External gill. 



//. — Hyoid cartilage. 



h.a. — Hyoidean aortic arch. 



Ji.rii. — Hyoidean muscle mass. 



Hym. — Hyomandibular fold. 



inf. — Infundibulum. 



k.m. — Muscles of mastication. 



l.r. — Lateral recess of pharynx. 



M. — Meckel's cartilage. 



m.a. — Mandibular aortic arch. 



m.a'. — Its efferent portion. 



m.a'^. — Its afferent portion. 



m.d.h. — Depressor hyoidei. 



m.d.m. — Depressor mandibulse. 



m.d.rii' . — Its accessory slip. 



01. — Olfactory depression. 



Pr.A. — Processus ascendens. 

 Pr.q.c.a. — Commissura quadrato- 



cranialis anterior. 

 Pr.M. — Processus muscularis. 

 Q. — Quadrate. 

 St. — Stomatodeal plate. 

 T'/t.— Thyroid. 

 Tr. — Trabecula cranii. 

 Tym. — Tympanic (distal) portion of 



Eustaohian cord. 

 X. — Small blood-vessel connecting 



mandibular and hyoid aortic 



arches. 

 T. — Small blood-vessel external to 



ramus hyomandibularis. 

 2, S, 4, 5, v.f. — Second, third, fourth 



and fifth visceral-clefts. 

 V. — Trigeminal ganglion. 

 V^. — Ophthalmic ganglion. 

 V^^. — Maxillary ganglion. 

 V.m. — Maxillo mandibular nerve. 

 VII. — Facial ganglion. 

 vii h. — Ramus hyomaudibularis. 

 'eii pi. — Ramus palatinus. 



Plate VI, Fig. 1.— Coronal section through the pharynx and visceral-clefts 

 of an embryo of stage I. 



Fig. 2. — Coronal section through the same region of a slightly older em- 

 bryo (stage II). 



Fig. 3. — Coronal section of the same embryo at a somewhat higher ijlane. 



Fig. 4. — Coronal section through the dorsalmost portion of the pharynx 

 of the same embryo. 



Fig. 5. — Transverse section through the head of an embryo of approxi- 

 mately the same stage as the last. The section on the right side passes 

 through the extreme anterior portion of the hyomandibular fold [Hym.). 

 The plane of section is considerably farther posterior on the left side. 



Fig. 6. — Transverse section of the head of the same embryo. On the right 

 side the hyomandibular fold is cut throughout the greater part of its length 

 (Hym.). The dorsalmost portion of its outer (distal) border approaches 

 most closely the skin. On the left the facial ganglion gives off the ramus 

 hyomandibularis just external to the outer end of the fold (vii h.). 



Plate VII, Fig. 7. — Transverse section of the head of the same embryo 

 slightly posterior to the last. 



Fig. 8. — Coronal section of head of tadpole of stage V. One side alone 

 shown. 



Fig. 10. — Transverse section of the head of a young tadpole of stage III. 

 The section is through the anterior end of the pharynx. The plane of 

 section is more posterior on the right side than on the left. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Maicll, 



Fig. 11. — Fourth section posterior to that of Cgiire 10. Eu. designates 

 the •'diverticulum," while at Ihjm. is the autero-inferior ijortion of the 

 hyoinandibular fold. 



Fig. 12. — Third section posterior to the last. The diverticulum {Eu.) i& 

 now continuous with the antero-iuferior portion (Jli/m.) of the hyomandi- 

 bular fold. Between the two is the depression lodging tlie muscles {m.d.m. 

 and m.dJt.). The sn)all vessel above Eu. is the mandibular aortic arch. 



Fig. 13. — Sixth section posterior to the last. The mandibular aortic arch 

 is dorsal \o llym. 



Plate VIII, Fig. 14. — Third section posterior to last. The mandibular 

 aortic arch on the right side is just internal to vii pi. 



Fig. 15. — Transverse section of head of tadpole of stage IV in the region 

 immediately posterior to that shown in figure 24. 



Fig. 16. — Coronal section of the head of a young tadpole of stage II. On 

 the right side the section passes a slight distance above the floor of the 

 pharynx, Avhiie on the left it is consideraldy higher. The small vessel in 

 front oi Ilym. is the mandibular aortic arch. 



Fig. 17. — Fourth section dorsal to the last. On the right side the little 

 protrusion of the pharyngeal wall just internal to Tym. is the antero-inferior 

 portion of the hyomandibular fold jiist below the point where it becomes 

 continuous with l^ym. The space between the two is the depression. 



Fig. 18. — Coronal section of the head of the same animal a slight distance 

 below the roof of the mouth. 



Fig. 19. — Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of st£tge IV in the 

 region of the processus ascendens. 



Plate IX, Fig. 23. — Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of stage 

 IV, passing through a region slightly anterior to the auditory sac. 



Fig. 24. — Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of stage IV, showing 

 the anterior expanded portion {Tym.) of the Eustachian cord. Hym. de- 

 notes the proximal anterior portion of the hyomandibular cleft. 



I'ig. 25. — Transverse section of the head of a tadpole of stage V. On the 

 left the section is immediately posterior to the eye. The minute upgrowth 

 from the dorsal wall of l.r. just internal to vii h. is the Eustachian 

 proliferation. 



Fig. 26. — Transverse section of a portion of the right side of the head of 

 an old tadpole of 18 mm. (stage VI). This section is considerably more 

 magnified than the others and is intended to show the extremely rudimentary 

 character of the Eustachian cord at this stage. 



Fig. 28. — Transverse section of the right side of the head of a tadpole at 

 the beginning of the metamorphosis (stage VIII), showing the formation of 

 the annular cartilage. 



Fig. 29. — Transverse section of a portion of the right side of the head of 

 the same animal. The section was drawn with the same degree of magni- 

 fication as figure 26 and is intended to show the Eustachian cord when it 

 begins to regenerate. 



Fig. 30. — Transverse section through one side of the head of a young toad 

 (stage XV). The section passes through the region immediately in front of 

 the car-capsule. 



Fig. 31. — Transverse section through one side of the head of the same 

 animal. The section passes through the anterior portion of the ear-capsule. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



FUKTHER STUDIES ON THE CHROMOSOMES OF THE HEMIPTERA 

 HETEROPTERA. 



BY THOMAS II. MONTGOMERY, JR., PH.D. 



The present account deals with the relatioas of the chromosomes 

 in the spermatogenesis of certain Hemiptbva, and is practically a 

 continuation of a previous paper of mine.^ In the present paper 

 will be found a description of the chromosomal relations, as far as 

 they could be determined, in certain species not heretofore ex- 

 amined. 



The material was collected last summer at Woods Holl, Mass. , 

 and was kindly identified for me by Dr. Philip E,, Uhler, of Bal- 

 timore. The testes of some of the species (Tingis clavata, Corixa 

 verticalis, Cyvius luridus, Lygus jnatensis') were fixed simply in 

 Couklin's picro-acetic mixture, and this fixation not allowing suc- 

 cessful staining with Hermann's safiranine-gentian violet method 

 the relations of the nucleoli and of the chromatin nucleoli could 

 not be determined. But in the remaining species {Nabis annulatus, 

 Corizii-s alternatus and Harviostes reflexulus) the testes were fixed 

 in Hermann's platinic chloride-osmic-acetic mixture Avhich allowed 

 the saffraniue-violet stain, so that for these species the distinction 

 of nucleoli and chromatin nucleoli could be made. 



As in my preceding paper (I. c. ) on this subject, the term 

 " chromatin nucleolus " is applied to that peculiar nuclear ele- 

 ment which is a chromosome peculiarly modified in preserving its 

 form and dense structure, which chromosomes as a rule show only 

 in the height of mitosis, throughout every stage of the sperma- 

 togenetic cycle. With the saffranine-violet method, the chromo- 

 somes proper stain red only in mitosis, and violet in other stages, 

 but the chromatin nucleolus maintains the red stain in all stages. 

 1. Tingis clavata Stal. 



Three testes were studied, none of them showing spermatogonic 

 monaster stages. 



' "A Study of the Chromosomes of the Germ Cells of Metazoa," to be 

 published in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis 

 (PI. X, fig. 1) show seven chromatin elements of relatively equal 

 volume, and lateral views of the chromosomes in this stage show 

 that they are all dumbbell-shaped, and hence probably bivaJent 

 (fig. 2). This mitosis results in a transverse (reduction) division of 

 all these elements. Very frequeutly one of them is seen to be 

 characterized in having its two components of very unequal 

 volume. 



Since these preparations were stained merely by the iron-htemo- 

 toxylin method, the presence of chromatin nucleoli could not be 

 positively determined owing to the lack of difi^t^rential staining. 

 But in the prophases of the first maturation mitosis can be seen a 

 large true nucleolus, and two smaller rounded bodies (generally of 

 different volumes) which are soiuetimes in mutual apposition, and 

 sometimes not. If the latter are chromatin nucleoli, they are much 

 smaller than any of the seven bivalent chromatin elements of the 

 maturation division, so that the latter are possibly all unmodified 

 chromosomes. 



This species of the Tingitidce, in having such a small number of 

 chromosomes, may be regarded rather as a specialized than a j^rimi- 

 tive form. 

 2. Corixa verticalis Fieber. 



The chromosomes could not be counted in the monaster stages of 

 the spermatogonia. Two testes were examined. 



Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis 

 (PI. X, fig. 3, in which two of the chromosomes are seen laterally) 

 show twelve chromatin elements, of which one regularly is placed 

 in the centre of a circle composed of the remaining eleven. Lateral 

 views (fig. 4, in which four of the large and two of the small 

 elements are shown) show that all these elements are dumbbell- 

 shaped, and hence probably bivalent. Three are much smaller 

 than the remaiiiing nine, and the very smallest is the one that 

 occupies the centre of the chromosomal plate. All these elements 

 divide by a transverse (reduction) division, and in the daughter 

 cells (second spermatocytes) the chromosomes are arranged all close 

 together in the equatorial plane ; it is the case in a number of 

 species of the Hemiptera that the chromosomes show different plan? 

 of arrangement in the two maturation mitoses. 



In the post-synapsis stage there is found in the nucleus a peri- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



pheral, compact, densely staiuiag body of dumbbell form (Pi. X, 

 fig. 5, the chromatin reticulum not shown in this figure). This 

 possibly represents a true nucleolus and a chromatin nucleolus in ap- 

 position, but this point could not be determined. Similarly I 

 could not ascertain whether the three small chromatin elements of 

 the maturation mitoses are chromatin nucleoli. 



3. Cymus luridus Stal. 



There were no spermatogouic mitoses in the two testes examined 

 of this Lygfeid. 



Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis 

 show fifteen chromatin elements of very varying volumes (fig. 6), 

 though one (N. 2 f) is always much smaller than the others and, 

 by analogy ■with many other Hemiptera, probably represents a 

 chromatin nucleolus. Lateral views of the same stage show that 

 all these elements are dumbbell-shaped, and so probably bivalent 

 (fig. 7 showing the smallest and four of the larger elements). All 

 these elements become transversely divided. 



In the growth period of the spermatocytes, preceding the 

 maturation divisions, the micleus contains a large true nucleolus, 

 very irregular in form and peripheral in position. There are also 

 found as many as four smaller, rounded bodies, two of which are 

 frequently mutually apposed; if these be chromatin nucleoli there 

 would be potentially two bivalent chromatin nucleoli in the resting 

 spermatocyte (four univalent ones), though apparently only a 

 single bivalent one in the maturation mitosis. 



This species has a larger number of chromatin elements in the 

 first maturation mitosis than does the closely similar G. angustatus, 

 which I have shown to possess only thirteen. 



4. Lygus pratensis Linn. 



The individuals of this species of Capsid were labeled by Dr. 

 XJhler, " Lygus 2)ratensis ya.v.;'" whether Dr. Uhler regarded them 

 as simply showing slight differences in color, or as a good geo- 

 graphical variety, I cannot say. In the two testes studied there 

 were no spermatogouic monasters. 



In the monaster stage of the first maturation division are found 

 eighteen chromatin elements (PI. X, figs. 8, 9), namely, sixteen 

 larger and two (^JS\ 2) much smaller; while in the monaster of the 

 second maturation mitosis (fig. 10) are present seventeen elements, 




2G4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [jNIarcll, 



sixteen larger and one smaller (N. 2). The sixteen larger ele- 

 ments in the first mitosis are all bivalent, and probably are all true 

 chromosomes; they all divide transversely. The two small ele- 

 ments (those marked JV. 3 in the figures) of this mitosis do not 

 divide, but one of them goes nndivided into the (me daughter 

 cell (second spermatocyte), the other one into the other — this 

 explaining why in the first spermatocytes there are eighteen ele- 

 ments, in the second only seventeen. On account of these small 

 elements not dividing, each of them must be considered univa- 

 lent ; for 60 far as my observations on the Hemiptera have gone, 

 all bivalent elements divide transversely in the first maturation 

 mitosis. 



The species of Capsidce thus far examined (compare the preced- 

 ing paper, l. c. ) show a remarkable agreement in the number of 

 their chromosomes. Thus, if we count each bivalent chromatin 

 ' element of the first maturation mitosis as two, there would be the 

 following number of univalent elements (counting in also chroma- 

 tin nucleoli) in this mitosis of the following species: Lyg us 2)1X11611- 

 sis, 34; Leptopterna dolobrata, 34; Calocoris rapidus, 33; Poecilo- 

 c((psus lineatas, 35?; P. goJiipJiorus, 34 or 36. There is not found 

 in the Capsidce such a disparity in the number of chromosomes as 

 is found between the species of some other families {e.g., the 

 Lygceldce and Coreidin), so that the Capsidce wouJd appear to be a 

 mure homogeneous group. Then if the number of the chromo- 

 somes may be loosely taken as a criterion of the degree of speciali- 

 zation, a smaller number of chromosomes marking a more special- 

 ized stage (and this I hold to be true within certain bouuds), the 

 Capsidce, like the Reduviidce and Phymatidce, may be considered 

 relatively prindtive Hemiptera heteroptera, in comparison with the 

 Pentatomidcc, Lygceidce and Coreidce. This, it seems to me, is a 

 vital interest in the study of the chrotnosomes — to find critei'ia for 

 testing relationships. 

 6. Nabis annulatus Kent. 



I had only a single testis for examination, and it showed no 

 spermatogonic mitoses. 



There is no complete rest stage in the growth period of this 

 species (in which regard it is like certain of the Coreidce). In 

 the late telophase there is found in the nucleus (PI. X, fig. 11) a 

 large, usually centrally placed chromatin nucleolus (iNT. 2), with 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



more or less uneven contours; and attached to it is a smaller true 

 nucleolus (X. ) which disappears in the following prophase by gradual 

 decrease in volume. Somelimcs there are two cliromatin nucleoH, 

 generally of different volumes; since in such cases neither of these 

 has the volume of the single one, they probably represent separated 

 parts of the latter. 



In the prophases of the first maturation mitosis, which follow 

 immediately upon the stage just described, the chromatin nucleolus 

 shows itself to be composed of four dumbbell-shaped (hence bival- 

 ent) parts of unequal volumes, arranged close together (N. 2, fig. 

 13), Necessarily all four parts must have been present in the 

 preceding stage, but have been optically inseparable ; the apparently 

 single chromatin nucleolus of the growth period is made up in 

 reality of four bivalent ones. There is great divei'sity in the mode 

 of mutual apposition of the latter in the prophases; sometimes the 

 long axes of all may be parallel, but more frequently they cross 

 one another at varying angles; no case was seen where all four lie 

 in the same plane. Quite frequently there are only three chroma- 

 tin nucleoli in mutual contact near the centre of the nucleus, while 

 the fourth is separated from them and placed against the nuclear 

 membrane (fig. 12). All four are true chromatin nucleoli, main- 

 taining throughout the growth period their dense structure, even 

 contours, and red stain with the saffranine-violet method of Her- 

 mann, while the chromatin of the chromosomes proper stain 

 ■violet. In the prophase we are considering are found also six 

 bivalent chromosomes (portions of all of Avhich are seen in fig. 13) ; 

 these are tetrads with very wide longitudinal splitting of the type 

 characteristic for Aiiasa (Coreid), Toward the close of the 

 prophase these chromosomes shorten and become much more com- 

 pact structures. 



Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis 

 (fig. 14) show in every case ten chromatin elements of compara- 

 tively large size. Four of these must correspond to the four 

 chromatin nucleoli, and six to the six chromosomes proper of the 

 preceding stages, since there has been no loss nor multiplication 

 of any of these elements. Of the ten elements of the stage of 

 fig. 14, one (j).) oa pole view always appears round, on lateral 

 view (p., fig. 16) it shows a simple dumbbell shape; this one, 

 much smaller than any of the others, probably represents one of 




^^^ rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Murcll, 



the chromatin nucleoli. The nine remaining elements are likewise 

 all dumbbell-shaped, but on pole view of the spindle (fig. 14) 

 each of them appears elongate, sometimes showing a split in the 

 long axis. On lateral views of the spindle (figs. 15. 16) they 

 sometimes appear bipartite, sometimes quadripartite. As a study 

 of them in the preceding prophases demonstrates, each becomes 

 placed in the equatorial plane of the spindle so that the transverse 

 split (the line of junction of the two component univalent clu"o- 

 raosomes) lies in the equator of the spindle, and the longitudinal 

 split of each univalent chromosome lies perpendicular to this 

 plane. Thus the nine larger chromatin elements of fig. 14 appear 

 elongate on pole view of the spindle, because each of these bivalent 

 chromosomes is composed of two univalent chromosomes with 

 their long axes parallel to one another and to the equatorial plane 

 of the spindle. Hence on pole view of this spindle we see a plate 

 of (univalent) chromosomes, each seen longitudinally ; Avhereas 

 such a view in the other Hemiptera studied by me shows the 

 chromosomes seen from their ends, since in other Hemiptera it is 

 the general rule that two univalent chromosomes are joined end to 

 end, and not (as in Nahis) side to side. 



All ten elements divide transversely in this mitosis, so that whole 

 univalent elements become separated from one another. A pole 

 view of one of the plates of daughter chromosomes resulting from 

 this division (fig. 17) shows one smallest element (/>.), the half 

 of the corresponding element of figs. 14 and 16, and nine larger 

 elements, the halves of those of fig. 14. In fig. 17 each of the 

 nine larger univalent elements shows a well-marked longitudinal 

 split, which had been uauilly hiddvn in the preceding monaster 

 stage (fig. 14) ; it is a general rule in the Hemiptera that the longi- 

 tudinal split becomes temporarily hidden in the monaster stage of 

 the first maturation mitosis. 



One point needs to be emphasized: there are in the prophases 

 four chromatin nucleoli and six chromosomes, and in the monaster 

 stage of the first mitosis again ten elements, that is, ubviously 

 the same as those in the prophases. But the four chromatin 

 nucleoli of the prophases (figs. 12, 13) are smaller than any of 

 the chromatin elements of the monaster stage (fig. 14), except 

 the small element in the latter marked p. Accordingly three at 

 least of the chromatin nucleoli must have increased in volume 




1901.] NATUEAIi SCIENCES OF I'JIIEADELPHIA, 2G7 



before the latter stage. This is remarkable, since in all^'other 

 Hemiptera studied by me the chromatin nucleoli regularly"de- 

 crease somewhat in volume, generally to considerable degree, 

 before they take their position in the equator of the spindle. 



In Coriscus ferns Linn., the only other species of the Nabidce 

 studied, I found (preceding paper, ^.c. ) in the monaster stage of 

 the first maturation mitosis nine bivalent chromosomes and one bival- 

 ent chromatin nucleolus. In tlie growth period preceding there is 

 present in the nucleus one bivalent chromatin nucleolus of_large size 

 and a smaller one; but not a group of four bivalent chromatin nucle- 

 oli as in Nabis. If the chromatin nucleoli be regarded'as]^disap" 

 peariug chromosomes, for which view I have given reasons, then 

 we may conclude that Nobis annulatus, by virtue of showing four 

 of the chromatin elements on the Avay to disappearance, has 

 advanced beyond the stage of Coriscus fents. 



6. Corizus alternatus Say. 



Five testes of this species were studied. 



Only two clear cases of spermatogouic monasters were found 

 where all the chromatin elements could be readily counted; each 

 of these showed fourteen elements. As PI. X, fig. 18 shows, two 

 of the elements are rounded and much smaller than the others 

 (N. 2), and these are chromatin nucleoli. Of the twelve elongate 

 chromosomes proper, two (those marked A, fig. 18) are considerably 

 larger than the others; and one of these appears always to have 

 the form of a rod, while the other has a bent V-shape. All four- 

 teen elements are halved in the metakinesis. 



In the early portion of the growth j)eriod each spermatocytic 

 nucleus contains a clearly bipartite chromatin nucleolus, representing 

 a union of the two chromatin nucleoli derived from the sperma- 

 togonia; each of its univalent components appears occasionally 

 longitudinally split, which is unusual in the Hemiptera.^ In the 

 rest stage following (there is a complete rest stage in this species) 

 the nucleus (fig. 19) contains a bivalent chromatin nucleolus (N. 

 2), which has increased in volume and generally is ovoid in out- 

 line; but sometimes during the whole growth period the two 



'Dr. F. C. Paalmier, who has worked out the spermatogenesis of Anasa 

 iristis De G., has demonstrated to me a longitudinal splitting of the chro- 

 matin nucleolus in the growth period of the Lygaiid, Myodocha serripe» 

 Oliv. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



univalent chromatin nucleoli may remain entirely disconnected. 

 In this rest stage the nucleus contains also one or two larger, 

 irregularly shaped true nucleoli (fig. 19, N.) which are not 

 apposed to the chromatin nucleolus. 



Pole views of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis 

 (PI. X, fig. 20) show seven chromatin elements; and lateral views 

 of such cases show that all seven are dumbbell-shaped, and hence 

 bivalent. The smallest of these elements is the chromatin nucle- 

 olus (N. 2, figs. 20, 21), and, as is generally the case in Hemip- 

 iera, this divides in metakinesis before the chromosomes do. Of 

 the six chromosomes proper, one is always much larger than the 

 others (figs. 20, 21), and this one evidently represents the union 

 of the two largest univalent chromosomes of the spermatogonia 

 (in fig. 21 is shown, besides the chromatin nucleolus, X. 2, thi 

 largest chromosome and three of the five smaller cliromosomes) ; 

 and one chromosome is much smaller than the others, often little 

 larger than the chromatin nucleolus (this is the one lying nearest 

 to the largest chromosome in fig. 21). All these elements are 

 transversely divided in the metakinesis. Occasionally pole views 

 of the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis show eight 

 chromatin elements instead of seven; this is due to one of the seven 

 bivalent elements having precociously divided into its univalent 

 components. In the second spermatocyte are regularly found 

 seven univalent elements. 



Corizus annulatus in its spermatogenesis thus shows a ver}' close 

 similarity to C. lateralis Say, previously described by me. 

 7. Harmostes reflexulus Say. 



The individuals collected at Woods IIolI were marked by Dr. 

 Uhler, '' Harmonies reflexulus Say, variety "; whether a geographi- 

 cal race was thereby intended I cannot say. 



Five testes were examined. Tlie whole process of spermato- 

 genesis seems exactly similar to that described by me previously 

 for individuals of this species from Pennsylvania. 



This is one of the Hemiptera with an uneven normal number of 

 ■chromosomes, there being found in the spermatogonia thirteen 

 chromatin elements, namely, two smaller chromatin nucleoli {N. 2 

 of figs. '11 and 23) and eleven larger chromosomes proper. The 

 uneven normal luimber of chromosomes being a relatively rare phe- 

 nomenon, it having been observed so far only in four species of 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELrillA. 209 



Hemiptera (described iu my previous paper, l. e. ), I have counted 

 iu the testes of the Woods IIoll individuals the chromatin ele- 

 ments in all the cases of spermatogonic monasters which were 

 favorable for such counting, with the following results: Nine 

 spermatogonia showed exactly thirteen elements; in one case I 

 could not determine whether thirteen or fourteen were present. 

 These cases from four different testes, as well as those from four 

 testes of Pennsylvania individuals previously described by me, are 

 sufficient to show that the uneven number is not an individual 

 variation, due e.g. to some pathological condition, but is probably 

 characteristic of every individual of the species. 



The uneven normal number of chromosomes which I have 

 demonstrated also for Protenor belfragei, Ahjdus eurinus and 

 (Edancala clorsalis, represents a stage in the change of the number 

 of chromosomes from one even number to the next successive even 

 number. For Protenor I have shown that the uneven sperma- 

 togonic number is produced by a failure of two of the sperma- 

 togonic chromosomes to separate from one another. This I can now 

 prove for Harmostes also. For Avhile in most of the monaster 

 stages, as in fig. 22, all eleven chromosomes appear more or less 

 simply rod-shaped, in a few cases, as in fig. 23, one of the eleven 

 shows a well-marked transverse constriction. Were this constric- 

 tion a complele division, there would be the even number twelve. 

 Hence, for Harmostes the ancestral number of chromosomes 

 must have been twelve, and if, as is the case in Protenor, the odd 

 bivalent chromosome is "destined to change from a chromosome 

 into a chromatin nucleolus, in the course of time ten chromosomes 

 will be the number for the species. 



In conclusion, I would again call attention to the importance of 

 studying the chromosomal relations comparatively in a large num- 

 ber of species of a group. By such investigations not only may 

 much of importance be obtained regarding the evolution of cell 

 structures themselves, but by implication a criterion may thereby 

 be obtained for testing genetic relationships. In opening up this 

 line of research, I have drawn attention so far mainly to the 

 numerical relations of the chromosomes, and to the chromatin 

 nucleoli as representing chromosomes on the way to disappearance 

 during progressive evolution. These are the facts most easily 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^larcll, 



determined; and there is the surety in such study that the chromo- 

 somes are relatively large structures, which exist in fact and are 

 not artificially produced by the mode of preparation necessary for 

 their study. The chromosomes are not apparently formed de 

 novo — at least there is as yet no good proof in any case that they 

 are so formed; while, on the contrary, there is a considerable 

 amount of evidence to show that they are structures which persist 

 from generation to generation, even though this is a persistence 

 nvolving a great amount of metabolic change. Astral radiations 

 appear and disappear, or at least disappear as radiations ; nucleoli 

 are apparently accumulations of metabolic substances of no 

 morphological regularity, as I have shown in another place;' and 

 recent experimental studies would show, though perhaps in contra- 

 diction to the anatomical studies, that the centrosomes may be 

 formed anew. But the chromosomes show more fully than any 

 of these cellular structures a certain degree of morphological 

 stability, and this fact, taken in connection with their greater 

 adaptability for study, entitles them to a basic place in the study 

 of the cell's evolution, as well as in the study of evolution in 

 general. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE X. 



All figures liave been drawn to the same scale with the camera lucida at 

 the level of the base of the microscope, with the Zeiss homogeneous immer- 

 sion yV, ocular 4, tube length 180 mm. 



The bounding line in figs. 1-4, 6-10, 14-18, and 20-23 represents the cell 

 membrane ; in figs. 5, 11-13, and 19, the nuclear membrane. In lateral 

 views of the mitotic spindles (figs. 2, 4, 7, 15, IG, ^1) the mantle fibres are 

 the only achromatic elements shown, and are represented thicker than they 

 are in reality. 



Plate X, fig. 1. — Tingis clavata, pole view of monaster stage of the 

 first maturation mitosis. 



Fig. 2. — Idem, lateral view of the same stage. 



Fig. 3. — Corixa verticaiis, pole view of monaster stage of the first mat- 

 uration mitosis. 



Fig. 4. — Idem; lateral view of the same stage. 



Fig. 5. — Idern, nucleus in post-synapsis stage. 



P^'ig. G. — Cymus luridus, pole view of monaster stage of the first matura- 

 tion mitosis. 



Fig. 7. — Idem, lateral view of the same stage. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Lygus pratensis var., pole views of monaster stage of first 

 maturation mitosis. 



Fig. 10. — Idem, pole view of monaster stage of second maturation mitosis. 



Fig. 11. — J^^'abis aimulatus, nucleus in growth period (late telaphase), 



» Journal of Morphology, Vol. XV, 1898. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Figs. 12, 13. — Fdetn, nuclei in prophases of first maturation mitosis. 



Fig. 14. — Idem, pole view of monaster stage of first maturation mitosis. 



Figs. 15, 16. — Idem, lateral views of melakinesis of first maturation mi- 

 tosis. 



Fig. 17. — Idem, pole view of one plate of daughter chromosomes, early 

 anaphase of first maturation mitosis. 



Fig. 18. — Corizus alternatus, pole view of monaster stage of a spermato- 

 gonium. 



Fig. 19. — Idem, nucleus of first spermatocyte, rest stage. 



Fig. 20. — Idem, pole view of monaster stage of first maturation mitosis. 



Fig. 21. — Idem, lateral view of the same stage. 



Figs. 22, 23. — Harmostes reflexuliis var., pole views of monaster stage of 

 spermatogonia. 




272 pkoleedings of tbe academy of [Aprils 



April 2. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



April 9. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixox, ]\[.D. , in the Chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



April 16. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " The Identity of the Gordiaceaa Species, Chordodes morgan! 

 and C. pueriHs," by Thomas H. Montgomery. 



" Description of a NeAV Hemiramphid, " by H. W. Fowler. 



April 23. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Study of the Genus Ceuturio," by James 

 A. G. Rehn, was presented for publication. 



April 30. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Certain Aboriginal Remains of the Northwest 

 Florida Coast, Parti," by Clarence B. Moore, was preseutedfor 

 publication. 



Mr. Anthony W. Robinson was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PILSBRY. CRUSTACEA OF THE NEW JERSEY CRETACEOUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCr. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE II. 



HIGGINS. GIZZARD OF ODONATA ZYGOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE III. 



HIGGINS. GIZZARD OF ODONATA ZYGOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1001. 



PLATE IV. 



HIGGINS. GIZZARD OF ODONATA ZYGOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE V. 



VANATTA. NEW MARINE MOLLUSKS. 

 PILSBRY. NEW MOLLUSKS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE VI. 



FOX. TYMPANO-EUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. lOOl 



PLATE VII. 



rr\.dh. 



FOX. TYMPANO-EUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE VIII. 



(is ^ ^^ / 



FOX. TYMPANO-EUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE IX. 



...--^"^'=^: 



FOX. TYMPANO-EUSTACHIAN PASSAGE OF TOAD. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. .SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE X. 



MONTGOMERY. CHROMOSOMES OF HEMIPTERA HETEROPTERA. 






PROC. A. N. S. PHILA. 1901. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



THE FORFICULID^, BLATTID^, MANTID^ AND PHASMID^ COL- 

 LECTED IN NORTHEAST AFRICA BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH. 



BY JAMES A. (4. REHN. 



The material of Avhich the present paper is a study was collected 

 by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith on his two expeditions into northeast 

 Africa, and presented by hira to the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. The first of the expeditions was made in the 

 years 1894 and 1895, and extended as far west as Lake Rudolf, 

 the whole account of which has been published in book form.^ 

 The last expedition was made in 1899 and 1900, the route being 

 by Lake Kudolf on through the unknown to the Nile. On this 

 last expedition but two specimens of Orthoptera were collected. 

 The total number of specimens of Orthoptera secured is 239, per- 

 haps the most important collection ever brought from that country. 

 The remaining portion (Acrididie, Locmtidce and Gryllidce) will 

 shortly be reported upon. 



Family FORFICULID^. 

 Labidura sp. 



Three immature specimens ; Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland, Sep- 

 tember 23 and 27, October 3, 1894. 



Anisolabis moesta (Serville). 



1839. Forficesila moista Serville, Orthopteres, p. 28. 

 One specimen, c?; between Ginea and Dada, near the Darde 

 river, Gallaland, November 20, 1894. 



Anisolabis sp-" 



One immature female; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 

 23, 1894. 

 Apterygida buseinae n. sp. 



Types, one male and two females : 



c^, October, 5, 1894, Sheikh Husein, Gallaland. 



?, September 23, 1894, Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland. 



9, September 21, 1894. Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland, 



This species apparently has no close affinity with any of the 

 described forms. 



1 Ihrough Unknown African Countries, by A. Donaldson Smith. 

 18 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



(^. — Size large. Autenute composed of nineteen segments. 

 Pronotum quadrate, the posterior angles moderately rounded, 

 lateral margins somewhat extended, posterior section with a distinct 

 median sulcation, tumid anteriorly with a moderate depression 

 centrally, the posterior portion being moderately scabrous. Elytra 

 rather elongate, the posterior margin very broadly rounded, the 

 whole with the small exposed portion of the wing scabrous. Abdo- 

 men entirely punctate ; anterior segments with the posterior margins 

 rather indistinctly beaded, each segment laterally with two longitu- 

 dinal indistinct tuberculations. Anal segment transverse, somewhat 

 glabrous, centrolly with a broad sulcus, the median portion of the 

 posterior margin truncate. Forceps not quite half as long as the 

 body, widely separated at the base, the shafts directed inward, the 

 tips incurved, the internal margin bearing centrally a well- 

 marked tooth. Subgenital plate Avith the posterior margin trian- 

 gularly extended, the apex truncate. 



9 . —Size large. Antennse composed of twenty- four to twenty- 

 six segments Subgenital plate with the posterior margin rather 

 broadly rounded. Forceps straight, tips incurved, the internal 

 margin dentate anteriorly, crenulate posteriorly. 



General color blackish brown, the lower surface of head and 

 pronotum dull ochraceous, in one specimen this is entirely suffused 

 with dark brownish. Limits dull luteous washed with blackish. 



Meamrements. ^ „ 



Length of body (with forceps), . . 21 mm., 22 mm. 



Length of forceps, 5.75 " 5 " 



Length of pronotum, 2 " 2,75 '' 



Length of anal segment, 2.1 " 2.1 " 



Length of elytra, 4 " 3.75 " 



Width of elytra, 3.5 '' 3.75 " 



Family BLATTID-ffi. 

 Aphlebia algerica Bolivar. 



1881. Aphlebia (ibjerica Bolivar, Ami. Soc. Esp. Soc. Nat., X, p. 499. 

 Two females; Roka and Luku, Gallaland, September 11 and 

 17, 1894. 



Theganopteryx senegalensis Saussure. 



1868. Blatta senegalensis Saussure, Revue et Magasiu de Zoologie (2), 

 XX, p. 354. 



One female; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 3, 1894. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHIA. 275 



Blatta germanica Linnaeus. 



1767. Blatta germanica Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., XII ed., II, p. 688. 

 One male; Sheikh Huseiu, Gallalaud, October 6, 1894. 



Ischnoptera picea Sehulthess. 



1898. Ischnoptera picea Schulthess-Schindler, Ann. Mus. Civ. Qeuova, 

 XXXIX, p. 166. 



One male; Daro Mountains, between Ginea and Dada, Galla- 



land, November 19, 1894. 



Periplaneta atricollis Sau.ssure. 



1899. Periplaneta atricollis Saussure, AbhandL d. Senckenb. Natur- 

 forsch. Gesellsch., XXI, p. 580. 



Four specimens; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 21 and 

 25 and October 10, 1894. 



Deropeltis autraniana Saussure. 



1895. Deropeltis autraniana Saussure, Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, XXXV, 

 p. 78. 



Two females; Jara, southern Gallaland, October 23, 1899. 

 These two specimens were the only Orthoptera collected by Dr. 

 Smith on his last expedition. 



Deropeltis schweinfurthi Saussure. 



1895. Deropeltis schweinfurthi Saussure, Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, 

 XXXV, p. 79. 



One female; Daro Mountains, Gallaland, November 18, 1894. 

 Deropeltis wahlbergi (Stal). 



1856. Periplaneta wa/Ubergi 8ta.\, Ofv. Vet.-Akad. Forhand., p. 167. 



Two males; between Luku and Dago Tula, Gallaland, Septem- 

 ber 18, 1894. 



Heterogamia africana (Linnaeus). 



1764. Blatta africana Linua;us, Mus. Lud. Ulric, p. 108. 



One female; Gagap, near Milmil, Somalilaud, July 30, 1894. 

 Heterogamia sp. 



One female; no data. 



This specimen resembles S. dohmiana Saussure from North 

 China to a very great extent. In the absence of material and in 

 the face of the widely diflerent localities, it seems best not to 

 attempt to make any definite statement regarding its possible 

 identitv. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Oxyhaloa ferretti (Reiche and Fairmaire). 



1847. Blatta ferretti Reiche and Fairmaire, Ferret and Galinier's Voy. 

 en Abyssin'ie, III, p. 420, PI. 27, IJgs. 1, 2. 



Two males; one Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland, October 1, 3 894, 



the other without data. 



Nauphoeta gestriana Saussure. 



1895. Naupliata gestrieina Saussure, Ann. Mus. Civ. Geneva, XXXV, 

 p. m. 



Three specimens; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1 and 0^ 

 1894. 

 Stenopilema capucina (Gerstaecker). 



1873. JJerocalymriui capucina Gerstaecker, in Van der Decken's Reise, 

 III, Abth. II, p. 8. 

 One male and one female; the former Avithout data ; the latter 

 Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1, 1894. 

 Stenopilema somali Saussure and Zelintner. 



1895. Stenopilema somali Saussure and Zehntner, Eevue Suisse Zoolog., 

 Ill, p. 27. 



One female; no data. 



Derocalymma erythrenia Saussure and Zehntner. 



1895. Derocalymma erytJirenia Saussure and Zehntner, Revue Suisse 

 Zoolog., Ill, p. 31. 



Three females; two Hargesa and Bodele, Somaliland, July 21 

 and August 15, 1894; the other with no data. 



These specimens range from 12.5 to 20 mm. in ^otal length. 

 Calolampra aptera Schulthess. 



1898. Calolampra aptera Schultbess-Schindler, Ann. Mus. Civ. Geneva, 

 XXXIX, p. 169. 



Three females; Daro river near Laga, Somaliland, November 

 28, 1894. 

 Phenacisma peltata Kar.sch? 



189G. Phenacisma peltata, Karscb, Entomol. Zeitung, LVII, p. 243. 



One female (immature); Tug Terfa, Somaliland, August 21, 

 1894. 



This specimen is referred here with some doubt. 



Family MANTID^. 

 Eremiaphila somalica n- ^v- 



1899. E. spec. vie. arahicce Schultbess-Schindler, Ann. Mus. Civ. Gen- 

 ova, XXXIX, p. 170. 



Types, two females; one The Hand, July 13, 1894, and the 



other without locality or date (there can be little doubt but that 



it was taken in the same general region). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHrLADELPHIA. 277 



Apparently approaching E. arabica Saussure, but differing in 

 numerous details; with E. aristides Lucas, from Suez, the rela- 

 tionship is also close, but that species is described as wingless. 



The specimens (or at least one of them) were collected in the 

 same character of country frequented by the other species of the 

 genus — barren and waterless plains or absolute deserts. 



Size medium. Head, with eyes, wider than deep (excluding 

 the clypeus), anterior border viewed superiorly truncate; antennae 

 slender. Pronotum sparsely tuberculate, broader anteriorly than 

 long, posteriorly converging; anterior border with a broad, low 

 central convexity which is perceptibly impressed in the median 

 section, ihe margin free; angles rect-acute augulate; posterior 

 border apparently truncate." Tegmina as in E. arabica, except 

 that the main veins ramify and become lost in the reticulations of 

 ihe posterior portion of the tegmina. Wings well developed, 

 extending to the tips of the tegmina. A.bd'>men with the supra- 

 anal plate transverse, subsinuate centrally; subgenital plate rather 

 elongate, the apex broadly rounded. Limljs sparsely tuberculate, 

 the tubercles sometimes arranged in regular series. Anterior 

 tibise with four rather blunt spines on the external margin. Me- 

 dian and posterior femora each with a row of blunt teeth along 

 the posterior margin, the distal extremities bearing a moderate- 

 sized spine. Posterior tibise slightly longer than the femora. 



General color ranging from purplish brown on the head and 

 pronotum to clay yellow on the abdomen. Eyes, labrum and 

 lower part of clypeus ferruginous. Exposed surface of tegmina 

 pale clay yellow becoming dull reddish centrally; lower surface 

 with a liar of blackish purple. Limbs and lateral borders of 

 pronotum pale yellowish pink, in one specimen (The Hand, July 

 13, 1894) the tibiae are obscurely ringed with whitish, in the 

 other (unknown locality and date) the temora are decidedly clay 

 yellow at the bases. 



MeasuremenU. Q (The Haud. 7-13, '94.) 9 (?) 



Total length, 16.5 mm., 18 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3 " 3 " 



Anterior width of pronotum, ... 5 " 4.75" 



Length of tegmina, 7 " 7.50 " 



Width of abdomen, 7 " 6.75 " 



Length of hind femora, 9.25 " 9.50 " 



- This portioa was somewhat damaged in both specimens by the iasertiou 

 of the piu. 




278 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



It is interesting to know lliat E. arabica has been recorded from 

 Webithal, Ogaden, by Schulthess'; later the same author^ con- 

 siders specimens from Obbia somewhat removed from true arabica. 

 Tarachodes smitM "• H'- 



Types, male and female, the latter immature; Tug Terfa and 

 Tug Berka, northern Somalilaud, August 21 and 23, 1894. 



This rather peculiar species is evidently allied to T. media 

 Schulthess-Schindler^ and T. ccstuans Saussure*, systematically and 

 geographically fitting between the two. From media it differs 

 in the form of the head, which is anteriorly truncate instead of 

 irregularly arcuate, and the presternum which is unifasciate instead 

 of trifasciate ; from (sstuans it differs also in the form of the head, 

 and in the form and size of the joints of the cerci. 



c?. — Size rather large, moderately robust. Head with vertex 

 transverse, subtruncate. Pronotum about twice as long as the 

 greatest width, considerably narrower posteriorly than anteriorly; 

 the anterior and posterior margins broadly rounded, the lateral 

 margins sinuate, the whole spineless; dorsum bearing four obsolete 

 tubercles centrally. Tegmina long, surpassing the abdomen, 

 about four times as long as broad. Anterior limbs with the 

 femora rather stout and heavy, the external margin bearing five 

 large and twelve small teeth, the internal margin bearing twelve 

 teeth alternating in size. Median and posterior limbs lightly 

 built, hirsute. Abdomen rather slender. Cerci damaged. 



General color grayish brown suffused, excef)i the tegmina, with 

 dull purplish brown. Clypeus, labrum and facial shield ochrace- 

 ous with four transverse blackish bars, the superior pair continued 

 upon the olive-tinged eyes, Pronotum with the suffusing tint 

 arranged in a pair of broken parallel lines along the mediaa 

 section, posteriorly tinged with green, the lateral margins being 

 thickly speckled. Limbs irregularly marked with the suffusing 

 tint, except the anterior coxse and the lower surface of the tibiae 

 which are pale yellowish, the internal section of the tibire being 

 broadly lined with black. Below dull yellowish except a single 

 band of black across the prosternum. Tegmina hyaline, the 

 longitudinal veins blackish irregularly broken by whitish spaces. 



^Zool. Jahr., Syst., VIII, p. 69. 

 * Ann. Mus. Civ. Genotn, XXXIX, p. 170. 

 ^ Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, XXXIX, p. 171. 

 ^Ibid.. XXXV. B. 91. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



?. — Size medium, robust. Head with vertex transverse, trun- 

 cate. Pronotum less than twice as long as the greatest width ; the 

 anterior margin rather broadly rounded, the posterior truncate 

 with the angles cut off, the lateral margins sinuate, spined 

 throughout their length, one large spine anteriorly; the dorsum 

 with two obsolete tubercles near the anterior margin, and six paired 

 tubercles placed equidistant from the sulcus to within about three 

 millimeters of the posterior margin. Tegmina and wings short 

 and undeveloped. Anterior limbs with the tibije very deep and 

 robust, the external margin bearing five large and ten small spines, 

 the internal bearing ten spines. Median and posterior limbs rather 

 heavy, hirsute; the femora rather angular. Al^domen with a 

 median ridge and each segmeni with four crescentic crenulations; 

 the median ridge on the four anterior segments lobulate posteriorly. 

 Cerci rather long, the terminal segment almost as long as the pre- 

 ceding two. 



General color above wood brown irregularly suffused with darker 

 bi'own, strongest on the abdomen, weakest on the anterior limbs. 

 Eyes intense brownish black. Clypeus, labrum and facial shield 

 barred as in the male, but not so distinctly. Below pale yellowish, 

 clouded with blackish on the abdomen, the prosternum with one 

 broad transverse blackish band. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 40 mm., 



Length 0^ body, 36.5 " 29 mm. 



Length of tegmina, 29 " 



Length of pronotum, 9.25 " 7.8 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, . . . 4.40 " 4.25 " 



Length of anterior tibite, .... 8 " 6.6 " 



Tarachodes schulthessi n. n. 



1895. Chiropaclca modesta Schulthess-Eecbberg, Zool. Jabrb., Syst., 



VIII, p. 69. 

 1898. Tlarachodes'] modesta Scbulthess-Scbindler, Arm. Mus. Civ. 



Genova, XXXIX, p. 173 (not of Gerstaecker, 1869). 



Two males; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 24 and Octo- 

 ber 1, 1894. 



The name Tarachodes modesta was first used by Gerstaecker' 

 for a species of the genus from Zanzibar ; later Schulthess, in 



''ArcMv.f. Naturgesch., XXXV, p. 208. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



describing a species of Chiropacha, applied the name modesia to it,* 

 and later he used it under Tarachodei. The maintenance of two 

 identical names in the same genus not being permitted, I have 

 dedicated this species to its original describer, 

 Taracliodes sp. 



One immature specimen ; Gagap, near Milmil, northern Somali- 

 land, July 30, 1894. 



This specimen is too immature to make any definite statement 



regarding its specific affinities. 



Elaea somalica Schulthess. 



1898. FAcen somalica Schulthess-Scbindler, Ana. Mus. Civ. Geuova, 

 XXXIX, p. 170. 



Three specimens, two males, one female; Selou and Lafarok, 

 Somaliland, August 6 and 13, 1894; Fertza, Gallaland, Septem- 

 ber 12, 1894. 

 Compsotliespis falcifera n. sp. 



Type, one specimen, near the Darde river, Raia Wacheli, eastern 

 Gallaland, September 1, 1894. 



This species differs from C. cmomala Saussure in the much greater 

 size, in the non-mamillate eyes, the smaller and weaker forelimbs, 

 and various other details. 



Form slender. Head elongate with a broad, low median ridge, 

 vertex not at all prominent, ocelli small; eyes subelliptical; an- 

 tennae filiform. Pronotum rather elongate, slightly broader pos- 

 teriorly than antei'iorly, the length being more than six times the 

 greatest width; lateral margins almost straight, slightly constricted 

 anterior to the insertion of the coxse, finel}' tuljerculate; anterior 

 and posterior margins arcuate, the latter flattened centrally with 

 an obscure eraargination ; the whole surface finely tuberculate. 

 Tegmina abbreviate, semi-hyaline, rather coriaceous at the base. 

 Abdomen depressed, narrow, the lateral margins almost straight, 

 the basal and median segments one and a half times as long as wide, 

 terminal segments short, the posterior margins with a median 

 rounded lobe. Supraanal plate triangular, moderately produced, 

 the apex truncate, subemargiuate and obscurely carinate centrally, 

 the latter flanked by two longitudinal depressions, each of which 

 is laterally bordered by another carinas. Cerci broad, compres.sed, 



'^Zool. Jahrh., Syst. VIII, p. 69. 



* Ann. Mus. Civ. Qenota, XXXIX, p. 173. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



composed of six segments increasing in lengtii, the tei'minal one 

 almost half again as long as its predecessor, the whole bearing an 

 obsolete median ridge. Subgenilal plate compressed, deeply 

 folded, the central inclosure very narrow; styles moderately long, 

 subspatuiate. Anterior limbs very slight and weak; the coxce and 

 femora being about the same length and bulk, the outer margin of 

 the latter bearing four very minute spines, discoidal spines num- 

 bering three; tibice not half as long as the femora, the margin not 

 dentate ; metatarsi about as long as the tibia?. Median and pos- 

 terior pairs of limbs very long and slender; the median femora 

 each bearing two genicular spines; tibiae longer than the femora. 

 General color pinkish brown, the limbs touched with dull brown- 

 ish; eyes testaceous; lower surface of the pronotum suffused with 

 dull reddish ; elytra decidedly pinkish at base; anterior femora 

 with a line of reddish black on the lower margin. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 41 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 13.25 mm. 



Greatest width of pronotum, 2 mm. 



Gi'eatest width of abdomen, 3 mm. 



Length of tegmina, 15.5 mm. 



Length of anterior femora, 5.75 mm. 



Length of posterior femora, 12.2 mm. 



Length of posterior tibiae, 14 mm. 



Ligaria producta n. sp. 



Type, one immature female; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, Septem- 

 ber 30, 1894. 



Closely allied to T. trlgoncdis Saussure'" from South Africa, but 

 differing in the shape of the pronotum. The pronotum of trigonalis 

 is described as having " parte antice lata ac late rotundata, .... 

 marginibus baud dentatus;" while in the specimen before me the 

 pronotum is somewhat produced antei'iorly, the margin being very 

 narrowly rounded. 



Size medium. Head from the facial aspect about equally long 

 and broad; occiput subtruncate; eyes subfusiform, liltle attenuate 

 superiorly. Pronotum about two-thirds as broad as long, cen- 

 trally with moderate dilations, the borders crenula-dentate ; ante- 

 rior section diminishing in width, the margin narro wly rounded ; 



^'' Abhajid. Senckenb. Nat. Gesdlsch., XXI, p. 596. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



posterior section slightly constricted, the margin truncate. Ante- 

 rior femora stout and heavy, the inner margin spiued very much 

 as in L. trigonalls, the apical spines being alternately large and 

 small, except the two terminal spines which are large with a 

 diastema between them; tibite armed with seven spines; tarsus with 

 the first joint (metatarsus) about equaling the otlier four. iMedian 

 and posterior limbs slender, the apical spines equally visible on 

 each; the first tarsal joint (metatarsus) of tJie median pairsh'ghtly 

 shorter than the other segments. Abdomen depressed, with a 

 central carinal fold, which is more elevated posteriorly than ante- 

 riorly on each segment, the four anterior segments having the ]:)0s- 

 terior margin centrally emarginate, while the others have the same 

 truncate. Subgenital plate somewhat produced, broadly rounded, 

 with minute styles. 



General color dull wood brown, irregularly sprinkled with 

 blackish spots. The occiput bears a transverse line of grayish, 

 which is visibly continued to a greater or less extent upon the eyes. 

 The upper surface of the abdomen is tinged with yelloAvish, while 

 the limbs are obscured with blackish brown. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 15.5 mm. 



Width across eyes, 3 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.25 mm. 



Width of pronotum, 2.25 mm. 



Length of anterior femora, 4.00 mm. 



Sphodropoda rudolfae n. sp. 



Type, one female; near southern end of Lake Rudolf, western 

 Gallaland, September 1, 1895. 



Allied to S. trhnacula Saussure, but differing in the shape of the 

 anterior portion of the pronotum and the general thickness of the 

 shaft, besides the much shorter tegmina. 



Size smaller than S. irhnucxda, but very stoutly built. Head 

 rather long, the facial aspect broader than deep; occiput slightly 

 arcuate ; facial shield as wide as deep, superiorly obtuse angulate, 

 the extreme tip truncate, centrally with a pair of very obscure 

 carinse; eyes rather large, globose, the lower margin somewhat pro- 

 duced. Pronotum over twice as long as the greatest width which is 

 anterior to the middle ; the shaft bearing a prominent median carina}, 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



and somewhat constricted posterior to the dilation, the width here 

 being but half that of the latter; the collar rather acuminate, the an- 

 terior angle rather narrowly rounded, the posterior margin truncate, 

 the dilation having dentate margins. Tegraina moderately long, not 

 quite reaching the tip of the supraanal plate; the marginal field 

 coriaceous, the stigma large and opaque, the discoidal and anal 

 fields semi-hyaline, the costal margin pectinate. Anterior coxie 

 bearing on the proximal extremity a blunt tooth-like projection, 

 the inferior margin bearing five large spines, a small one occupying 

 each diastema; femora rather heavy, the external margin with 

 four spines, fifteen on the internal with some of the apical ones 

 reduced in size and presenting a formula which would give for the 

 anterior spines, reading posteriorly, Iiili ; tibise almost half as 

 long as the femora, bearing ten spines on the external and fifteen 

 on the internal margins. Median and posterior limbs moderately 

 slender; the tibite much lighter and more slender than the femora; 

 the first tarsal joint (metatarsus) very much elongate and equaling 

 the succeeding segments. Supraanal plate very broad and shallow, 

 the margin broadly rounded. Subgenital plate very large, the 

 posterior portion deeply folded and supplied with short, thick, 

 fleshy styles. 



General color dull ochre yellow tinged with dragon's blood red '^ 

 on the posterior border of each abdominal segment and on the 

 limbs, the median and posterior tibire being little sufiused. Head 

 obscurely suffused with olivaceous, this tint being especially notice- 

 able on the eyes, clypeus and mandibles. Tegmina dilute dragon's 

 blood red, palest at the anal l)order, richest around the stigma, 

 which is cream colored. 



3Ieasurements. 



Length nf body, 50.5 mm. 



Width of head, 9.5 mm. 



Length of pronotura, 17.25 mm. 



Greatest width of pronotum, 7 mm. 



Least width of pronotum, 3.75 mm. 



Length of tegmina, 26.5 mm. 



Greatest width of tegmina, 10 mm. 



Length of anterior femora, 16.5 mm. 



" Ridgway's Nomenclature of. Colors. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Sphodromantis bioculata Burmeister. 



1833. Sphodromantis bioculata Burmeister, Handb. d. Eat., Bd. II, 

 Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 537. 



One female (immature) ; Sheikh Husein, Gallalaud, October 8, 

 1894. 



Mantis sacra Thunberg. 



1815. Mantis sacra Thunberg, Mem. Acad. St. Petersb., V, p., 239. 

 One male; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 30, 1894. 



Hoplocorypha bottegi Saussure. 



1395. Hoplocoi'ypha bottegi Saussure, Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, XXXV, 

 p. 91. 



One immature specimen; Aimola, Gallaland, March 16, 1895. 



Hoplocorypha rapax Bormaas. 



1381. Hoplocorypha rapax Barmans, Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova, XVI, p. 

 211. 



One immature specimen; near the Daro Mountains, between 

 Ginea and Tulu, Gallaland, November 18, 1894. 



This specimen is referred here with some little doubt; the char- 

 acter '' tibiis tarsisque posticis nigro multipilosus " not being at 

 all appreciable. 



Miomantis fenestrata Fabricius. 



1781. Mantis fenestrata Fabricius, Spect. Ins , I, p. 319. 



One female (immature) and one male ; Luku, Gallalaud, Sep- 

 tember 17 and 18, 1894. 

 Miomantis sp- 



One female (immature); Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1, 

 1894. 

 Fischeria sp. 



One male; Sheikh Mahomet, Gallaland, October 30, 1894. 



This large specimen is unfortunately headless. 

 Ischnomantis media "• sp. 



Type, female (somewhat immature) ; near the upper Wobi 

 Shebeli, Gallaland, December 24, 1894. 



Closely allied to 7. spinigera Schulthess, ^'- but differing in the 

 length of the supraanal plate which in the new form is less than 

 the length of the anterior coxse, while in splnigera it equals the 

 anterior femora. 



'•^ Ann. Mns. Civ. Qenova, XXXIX, p. 17o. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Size large. Head viewed facially much bi'oadcr than deep, the 

 occiput arcuate; eyes prominent; clypeus bearing a transverse 

 ridge. Pronotum four times as long as its greatest width; the 

 lateral margins dentate anterior to the dilation, denticulate poste- 

 rior to the same; anterior margin somewhat produced, rounded; 

 posterior margin truncate, the angles obliquely trimmed; median 

 carina visible on the shaft, replaced by a sulcus on the collar. 

 Anteiior coxaj with the lower margin dentate, the other margins 

 denticulate; femora rather elongate, five spines on the external 

 margin, fifteen spines anteriorly and eleven to twelve denticules 

 posteriorly on the internal, the superior margin with a very slight 

 concavity; tibire Avith nine spines on the external margin with a 

 basal diastema, fourteen on the internal. Median and posterior 

 pair of limbs very slender and light; tibito with the internal mar- 

 gins spined; metatarsus of the posterior limbs very much longer 

 than the other tarsal joints, and closely spined beloAv. Abdomen 

 with lateral elongate crescentic convolutions. Supraanal plate 

 elongate, lanceolate, the apex narrowly rounded, centrally keeled, 

 the whole shorter than the anterior coxfe. 



General color wood brown,'* sprinkled and finely mottled with 

 umber, the ground tint being purest on the anterior limbs. Eyes 

 walnut brown, mottled with blackish. Anal region and lower 

 surface of abdomen tinged with ochraceous. 



Co in pa ra tive Measurem ents. 



$ media. $ spinigera 

 (from Schulthess). 



107.5 mm. 113 mm. 

 30.5 " 30 



7 " 6.3 " 



12.5 " 20 



. 19.5 " 

 24 " 

 '. 35.75 " 



Length of body, 

 Length of pronotum, . 

 Greatest width of pronotum 

 Length of supraanal plate. 

 Length of anterior cox^e, . 

 Length of anterior femoi'a. 

 Length of posterior femora. 



Paraspliendale minor Schulthess. 



1898. Paraspliendale viinor Schulthess-Schindler, Aou. Mup. Civ. 

 Geneva, XXXIX, p. 177. 



Two females, one immature; Sheikh Husein and Tulu, Galla- 

 land, September 29 and November 22, 1894. 



^^ Ridgway's Nomenclature. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Oxyophthalma gracila Saussure. 



1861. Oxyophthalmus gracilis Saussure, A.nn. Soc. Ent. France (4), I, 

 p. 470. 



One male; Bodele, Tug Terfa, Somaliland, August 20, 1894. 



As far as it i? possible to judge from Saussure' s description and 

 figure, this specimen is identical with his gracilis, except that in the 

 specimen before rae the eyes are not so mammillate as in his figure. 



Oxypila annulata Serville. 



ISSl. Oxypila annulata Serville, Rev. Orthopt., p. 23. 



Four specimens, one male, three females (one immature) ; 

 Sheikh Husein (3) and Diibuli (1), Gallaland, September 16 and 

 October 6, 1894. 

 Pseudocreobotra amarae n. sp. 



Type, female; headwaters of the Burga river, near Dagugi, 

 country of the Amara, western Gallaland, April 24, 1895. 



This species is related to P. tmhlbergii Stal from Zanzibar, but 

 it is larger and differs in the form and comparative size of the 

 pronotum. 



Size rather large. Head transverse; the vertex prolonged into 

 a shallowly bifid peduncle; ocelli very large and prominent; clypeus 

 and labrum carinate, the former triangularly produced into falcate 

 extensions; eyes very ])rominent, bluntly acuminate, each flanked 

 •on the posterior margin by a blunt tubercle. Pronotum with two 

 lateral and one posterior prominent rounded lobe.?, the anterior 

 margin being broadly rounded; the central section heavily bossed 

 forming four tubercles, the large anterior one being considerably 

 cristate; the lateral lobes thin, coriaceous and ascending. Tegmina 

 long and moderately broad, central and basal sections opaque, 

 apical section hyaline. Anterior coxse finely scal)rous, the lower 

 margin with both large and small spines to the number of 6 or 7; 

 femora bearing four spines on the exlernal margin, each spine 

 being thick and heavy at the base, the tip being constricted and 

 sub-uugiculate, the internal margin with nine .spines, the second, 

 third and fifth being reduced in size; metatarsi superiorly lamel- 

 late, the external margin sul)pectinate, the internal margin with 

 fourteen spines increasing in size from the proximal extremity. 

 ^Median and posterior limbs rather slender, the femora with apical 

 rotundate dilations on the posterior margin. Abdomen broad and 

 heavy, each segment with a lateral angular production. Sub- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



genital plate broadly rounded, with a central depression and a 

 posterior median emargination. 



General color between gamboge yellow and lemon yellow,'* 

 strongest on the head, pronotum, limbs and tegminal rings. Head 

 with the superior aspect clouded with greenish ; eyes walnut brown 

 clouded with blackish, palest inferiorly. Pronotum with the pos- 

 terior half deeply suffused with dull greenish. Tegmina basally 

 pale pea-green with a blotch of chromium green,'' the characteristic 

 rings surrounded by the latter tint, the rings arranged as follows: 

 a central black spot, a moderately broad ring of chromium greeu 

 followed by a bar of slightly greater width of modified lemon 

 yellow, and externally a narrow black ring. Limbs all ringed 

 with narrow bands of dull emerald green; the lower surface of 

 each of the anterior femora with two spots of orange. 



3feasurements. 



Total length, 33. mm. 



Width of head, 6 



Length of pronotum, 6.75 " 



Greatest width of pronotnm, 9 " 



Length of elytra, 32.5 " 



Greatest width of elytra, 7.5 " 



Length of anterior femora, 10.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 8. 25 " 



Pseudoharpax virescens (Serville). 



1839. Creobroier virescens Serville, Orthoptores, p. 162, PI. 3, fig. 7. 



Four specimens, one male, three immature females; Sheikh 

 Husein, Gallaland, September 28 and 30, October 9 and 10, 

 1894. 



The male has a broad dorsal median stripe of black on the pro- 

 notum. 

 Popa undata (Fabricius). 



1793. Mantis xindata Fabricius, Eut. Syst., II, p. 19. 



Three specimens, two males (one immature, one larval), one 

 female; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, and near Tug Lomo, between 

 Milmil and Bodele, Somaliland,"^ August 12, September 30 and 

 October 10, 1894. 



The males have the supraanal plate apically truncate, while that 

 portion of the female is much more acuminate. 



^*. ^^ Ridgway's Nomenclature. 



^^ The data with this specimen reads "Smith River, VIII 12, 94." Smith 

 River cannot be found on any of Dr. Smiths charts, and the locality above 

 s that of the datfe. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Empusa egena Charpentier. 



1841. Empusa erjena Charpentier, Germar's Zeitsebr., Ill, p. 297. 

 One larval female; Laga, Gallalaad, November 29, 1894. 



Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure. 



1895. Idolomorpha dentifrons Saussure, Grandidier's Hist, de Mada- 

 gascar, Orthopteres, Pt. I, p. 244. 



One female ; Daro Mountain.?, between Ginea and Tulu, Gal- 



laland, November 19, 1894. 



Blepharis cornuta Schulthess. 



1895. Blepharis cornuta Schulthess-Rechberg, Zoolog. Jahrb., Sjst. 

 Abth., A'lII, p. 72. 



Two immature females; vicinity of Laga, Gallaland, Xovember 

 28 and 30, 1894. 



The two specimens before me differ somewhat from the figure of 



cornuta, the anterior tibiae being longer than those figured, though 



this may be due to foreshortening in the figure. On the -whole 



the variations amount to so little that there is no doubt as to their 



identity. 



Family PHASMID^. 



Palophus reyi (Grandidier). 



1869. Ischnopoda reyi Graudidier, Revue et Magasia de Zool. (2), 

 XXr, p. 292. 



One female; no data. 



Total length, 202 mm. 



Length of tegmina, . 25 



Length of wings, 67 



Length of anterior femora, 5G 



Length of median femora, 42 



Length of posterior femora, 54 



Clonaria gracila (Burmeister). 



1838. Bacillus fjracila Burmeister, Handb. d. Ent., II, Abtb. II, Pt. 

 I, p. 561. 



One male; Berbera, Somaliland, July 3, 1894. 



The collection also includes four female specimens of Phasmidce 

 taken at the following localities : 



Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland, October 8, 1894. 



Sheikh Mahomet, Gallaland, October 30, 1894. 



Luku, Gallaland, September 17, 1894. 



Between Tug Lomo and Bodele, Somahland, August 12, 1894. 



These are damaged to such an extent that determination is very 

 difficult or impossible, many of the portions used in classification 

 being absent or badly damaged. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



THE IDENTITY OF THE GORDIACEAN SPECIES, CHORDODES MORGANI 

 AND C. PUERILIS. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR. , PH. D. 



In a preceding contribution^ I described as new and distinct 

 species Chordodes morgani and C. puerilis, the former based on 

 two females, the latter on two males. The differences in the sculp- 

 turation of the surface of the cuticle seemed then to justify the 

 separation of these two species. In a later paper^ 1 stated that 

 " Chordodes pxierilis and 0. morgani may eventually be found to 

 be the two sexes of the same species;" and the truth of this sup- 

 position is now confirmed. C. puerilis thus becomes a synonym of 

 C. morgani, since the latter was first described in the original paper. 



Matei'ial consisting of seven females and five males, all collected 

 together at the same time (July 27, 1899), on the shore of South 

 Bass Island, in the western end of Lake Erie, in the explorations 

 of the Great Lakes conducted by the U. S. Fish Commission, were 

 very kindly sent to me for identification by Prof. Jacob E. Reig- 

 hard; and I am indebted to him and to Mr. George M. Bowers, 

 Fish Commissioner, for permission to publish my conclusions. An 

 examination on cross sections of the cuticle of a number of these 

 specimens shows very considerable variation, but variation with 

 intergradation; and shows also that there is more or less of a sex- 

 ual difference in the form of the papillse of the cuticle. In each 

 individual the cuticle of the middle region of the body was ex- 

 amined. 



In the following description the original specimens, as well as 

 the new material, shall be described together. In my first paper 

 the form of the body was described, and there is nothing new to 

 be added to that account. 



' " The Gordiacea of Certain American Collections, -with Particular Eefer- 

 ence to the North American Fauna," Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Harvard 

 College, Vol. 32, Xo. 3, 1898. 



■'"Synopses of North American Invertebrates. II, Gordiacea (Hair 

 Worms)," American Naturalist, Vol. 33, No. 392, 1899. 



19 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Size and Color. — The largest female (the type of C. morgani) 

 measures 222 mm. in length, the largest male 220 mm., the 

 smallest individual seen (male, co-type of C. pueriUs) 6-i ram. 

 The color varies from a dull chocolate l)rown to a light bufi brown, 

 averaging darker in the males; the head end is always white. 



Cuticle. — Cross sections of the cuticle examined with high 

 powers show the following kinds of prominences: 



1. Low papillre of irregular outline, rarely higher than Inroad, 

 ■which bear no spines. These are shown in Plate XI, figs. 1-3, 9. 

 In general they are, next to the following kind, the most numer- 

 ous, and are generally the smallest. 



2. The most numerous are small papilUe, rounded or more 

 frequently conical on outline, each of which bears a delicate, stift 

 spine of nearly its own height. These are shown in Plate XI, figs. 

 1_3^ 5-11. Genei-ally they are rather evenly distributed between 

 the larger papillae, but in one female (fig. 7) considerable portions 

 of the cuticle show them arranged in close patches, without papilhe 

 in the spaces intervening. In none of the males was such an 

 arrangement found. 



B. Large papillse, considerably higher and broader than the pre- 

 ceding, shown in Plate XI, figs. 1, 3, 5, 6, 10, 11. In the small- 

 est female (length 125 mm.) these were entirely absent. Their 

 crowns are generally flattened or rounded, and bear each a circlei 

 of short, stifi, delicate spines, few and variable in number; in the 

 largest female, the type of C. moniani, fig. 11, most of the papilla? 

 were not provided with such spines. Sometimes, not frequently, 

 the bases of these papillce are tuberculated or deutated. In the 

 males these large papillte are generally higher than broad, except 

 in the smallest male (fig. 1, co-type of C. puerilis), where they are 

 about as broad as high. In the females they are relatively less 

 numerous than in the males, and relatively broader and shorter, 

 more rectangular in outline and with their summits more regularly 

 flattened. Fig. 11 shows their appearance in the largest female, 

 which may be compared with the appearances in the largest males 

 (Plate XI, figs. 3, 5, 6). 



4. Small rounded papillte, each of which bears on its summit a 

 long, hyaline, finger-shaped process (Plate XI, figs. 1, 3, 8, 11). 

 These are present in all the individuals, but very much less nu- 

 merous than any of the preceding kinds, generally occurring at 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



considerable distances apart. Such processes are found in most 

 species of the genus. 



0. Papilloe, each of which bears a thick, more or less curved, 

 conical spine, refractive and homogeneous in appearance (Plate 

 XI, figs. 2, 4, 11 J. These are the least numerous. I did not find 

 them in the specimens from Lake Erie, but they are present in the 

 types and co-types of morgaiii and puerilis (I had overlooked 

 them at the time of my former description). The size and form 

 of the spines is variable. 



Surface views of the cuticle w'cre given in my preceding paper. 

 In the males the large papillie (the third kind) always appear 

 darker and larger than the other papillae ; they may be arranged 

 close together or, when less numerous, show the tendency to form 

 large, irregular groups. In the largest females the cuticle on 

 surface view is like thaf of the males, except that the third kind 

 of papillae are less numerous; in females which lack the third kind 

 of papilla?, the darker disks on the surface of the cuticle represent 

 patches of papillae of the second kind. 



Diagnostic Characters. — The sculpturation of the cuticle is so 

 variable that it is difficult to give a sharp diagnosis. But the 

 regular occurrence of papilke (the second kind) of more or less 

 conical form, each bearing a short delicate spine; the quite gen- 

 eral occurrence of higher papillae (the third kind), each generally 

 with a circlet of a few similar spines, and the occasional occurrence 

 of papilke bearing each a thick conical spine, seem to distinguish 

 C. morgani from any hithero described species of the genus. But 

 the degree of variation in this form, individual and sexual, shows 

 how necessary it is to examine large series of individuals in 

 separating the species of the Gordiacea ; an individual variation 

 about as great is found in C. occidentalis Montg. , as has been 

 shown by me in a preceding paper. ^ 



All the specimens seen by me of Chordodes morgani were from 

 the United States of America, from the following localities: Lake 

 Erie, Maryland, Iowa and Pennsylvania; thus it would seem to be 

 a species of the eastern portion of North America. 



^ Proc. California Acad. Sciences, Third Series, Vol. I, No. 9, 1898. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apri], 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XL 



All the figures represent portions of transverse sections of the cuticle, ex- 

 cept fig. 4, which represents a single papilla ; all were drawn with the 

 camera lucida at the height of the microscope stage Avith a Zeiss microscope, 

 length of tube 100 mm., ocular 4, homogeneous immersion objective j'^th. 



Figs. 1, 2. — Male (co-type of (J. pucrilis, length 64 mm.). 



Figs. 3, 4. — Male (type of C. puerilis, length 228 rum.). 



Fig. 5.— Male (length 150 mm.). 



Fig. 6.— Male (length 220 mm.). 



Fig. 7. — Female (length 127 mm.). 



Figs. 8, 9.— Female (length 190 mm.). 



Fig. 10.— Female (length 180 mm.). 



Fig. 11. — Female (type of C. morgani, length 220 mm.). 




lOOl.j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW HEMIRAMPHID. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The specimen described below was found amoug; a miscellaneous 

 collection of small and young fishes presented to the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia many years ago by Dr. William 

 H. Jones, of the United States Navy. 



I propose a new genus and species for this specimen after a 

 comparison with equally small examples, some smaller, of Hypo- 

 rhamphm and Hemirami^hus. These seem to differ but little 

 from the adults, and that principally in the shorter beak, which 

 is absent altogether in some. Perhaps a comparison of the adults 

 and young of the other members of the Hemiramphidce may 

 result in still greater diflferences. 



The specimen in question is strikingly like Fodiator aeutus 

 (Cuvier and Valenciennes), which it resembles in many respects, 

 though differing altogether in having a beak one and a half times 

 the length of the head. The young of all the Exocoetidce exam- 

 ined do not differ materially from the adults, and it seems hardly 

 likely that a beak as long as the present specimen possesses is 

 developed in l,he young of Fodiator. Undoubtedly we have in 

 this specimen an annectant form between Euleptorhaviphus among 

 the Hemiramphidce and Fodiator among the Exocoetidce. 



HEMIEXOC(ETUS gen. nov. 

 Body moderately elongate, compressed and covered with rather 

 large deciduous scales. The sides of the body are more or less 

 rounded and not especially flattened or compressed. The dorsal 

 and ventral lines are more or less parallel. The upper jaw is very 

 short, and the lower jaw is produced into a long, pointed, slender 



\^^ 



beak, at least one and a half times as long as the head. Teeth 

 minute. Head large and the eye is also large. No finlets. Cau- 

 dal forked and the lower lobe much the longest and strongest. 

 D. and A. more or less similar, and the origin of the former in 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



advance of the latter. P. very long, reaching the origin of the 

 D. V. very long, reaching half-way in the space between their 

 own origins and the base of the caudal. 



Hemiexocoetus caudimaculatus ^p- ""v. 



No. 7,508. Type." Taken in lat. 23° N. long. 106° W. 

 (Mazatlan, Mexico). Dr. William H. Jones. 



The form of the body is somewhat elongate, moderately com- 

 pressed, with the sides more or less rounded, and with the dorsal 

 and ventral profile lines equally convex. The greatest depth of 

 the body is nearly median, and it is contained in the total length 

 (exclusive of the beak and the caudal; about six times. The 

 head is large and compressed, not veiy broad above, and contained 

 in the body (as measured before) about four times. The eye is 

 large and superior, and it is contained in the head (exclusive of 

 the beak) about three times. The eye is also greater than the 

 interorbital space. The mouth is small and superior, and fur- 

 nished with minute teeth. Opercles large. The origin of the P. 

 is superior, level with the upper part of the eye, and near the 

 branchial aperture. Branchial apertures large. The P. are 

 exceedingly large and long, reaching at least to the origin of the 

 D., and thus for about half the length of the V. The origin of 

 the V. is nearer the branchial aperture than the base of the caudal, 

 and the fins reach posteriorly for at least half the distance between 

 their own bases and the base of the caudal. The origin of the 

 D. in advance of that of the A., the fins similar, but the longest 

 rays of the former equal to the depth of the body at that point. 

 The general color of the body is a rich plumbeous brown above 

 and silvery beneath. The upper or outer rays of the P., except 

 the first, are blackish. The first ray of the P., together with the 

 5 basal rays, white. D. and A. brownish. V. edged upon the 

 outer and inner rays with white, the inner rays blackish like the 

 same of the P. Caudal whitish, except the bases of the rays and 

 the jet black spot upon the outer portion of the lower lobe. The 

 body was covered with rather large scales, but as the squamation 

 is injured I am unable to give any count. Traces of a lateral 

 line existed upon the inferior scales along the sides of the ventral 

 region. D. 10, A. 11, P. 11. 



This small example measures 25 mm. from the tip of the upper 

 jaw to the base of the caudal. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



A STUDY OF THE GENUS CENTURIO. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



A recent study of the Bats in the collection of the Academy 

 revealed the fact that three alcoholic specimens of the curious 

 genus Centurio were preserved therein. As comparatively little 

 material of the genus had ever been examined, I secured, through 

 Mr, Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., a loan of the three representatives con- 

 tained in the collection of the United States National Museum. 

 The acquisition of these specimens considerably enlarged the series 

 for examination so that it numbered five alcoholic specimens, one 

 skin and one odd skull. 



With this series, probably the largest ever gathered together, I 

 have made some notes and observations, the results of which have 

 induced me to publish a summary of our knowledge of the genus. 



Record of Specimens. — The first specimen of Centurio known to 

 naturalists was collected on the cruise of H. M. S. " Sulphur," 

 and was examined by Dr. Oray, of the British Museum, who 

 described the genus and applied the specific name senex to the 

 specimen.^ The locality was stated to be Amboyna, but later^ 

 Gray seemed doubtful of this, as he says : * * Captain Sir Edward 

 Belcher informed me this bat was found in Amboyna, but Mr. 

 Hinds (surgeon of the expedition) does not appear to be so confi- 

 dent on the subject, and rather suspects it came from South 

 America. It was taken from a bottle containing animals from 

 both countries." 



In 1854 Lichtenstein and Peters described a specimen supposed 

 to be from Cuba, as C. flavogularis,^ but later Alston^ informs us 

 Dr. Peters had written him that the locality was erroneous. 



Saussure was the next author to inform us further regarding this 

 genus, a specimen from * ' les re'gions chaudes du 3Iexique ' ' being 

 described by him as C. mexicanus.^ 



The acquisition by the Smithsonian Institution of a specimen 



^ Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., X, p. 259. 1842. 



'^ Voyage of th'. "Sulphur," Mamm., p. 26. 1844. 



' Monatsh. K. Preuss. Akad. WissenscJi., Berlin, p. 335. 1854. 



* Biol. Cent. Amer., Mamm., p. 51. 1879. 



'"Rev. ei Mag. de Zool., 2e ser., XII, p. 381. 1861. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



from Mirador, Mexico, with the throat folds greatly developed 

 caused Dr. Harrison Alien to describe the subgenus Trichocoryes 

 and the sjiecies mcmurtrii, which he placed therein/ A specimen 

 of C. mexicanus from the same locality accompanied the one 

 described. Alston mentions' that Dr. Peters had informed him 

 that the Berlin ^Museum possessed a specimen of C. mcmurtra as 

 well as one of C. senex. 



The only remaining published record of specimens of this genus 

 is that of one female from Cerro de los Pajeros, Las Vegas, Vera 

 Cruz, Mexico, which was described by ]Mr. Henry L. "Ward as a 

 new species, Centurio minor.* 



General Relations. — A very superficial examination of a speci- 

 men of Centurio reveals the gap which exists between it and the 

 other genera of the subfamily in which it has previously been 

 placed. Of the genera of the Stenodermatince I have examined 

 all but two, i.e., Ametrida and Ectophylla, and the resulting belief 

 is that Centurio should stand apart. The singular facial structure, 

 throat folds, absence of true nose-leaf, and peculiar canines all 

 present an individuality not shared by the other genera, 



Accordingly I propose to separate Centurio as a new subfamily, 

 the differential characters of which would be as follows : 



CENTURIONINiE. 



Rnstral portion of skull very 

 broad. 



STENODERMATJX.E. 



Rostral portion of skull not very 



broad (except in Sjyhceronyc- 



teris and probably Ametrida). 



Upper canines without anterior i Upper canines with anterior 



basal concavity. basal concavity. 



Face with distinct nose-leaf. Face without distinct nose-leaf, 



. and without distinct cutaneous i and with distinct cutaneous 



facial ornaments (except in facial ornaments (nostrils not 



Sphceronyderis^. j opening directly upon the sur- 



I face). 



Upper lip not emarginate. Upper lip centrally emarginate. 



Ears without additional lobe on Ears with additional lobe on the 



the internal margin. internal margin. 



Throat without transverse folds Throat with transverse folds of 



of skin. i skin. 



^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp. 359-361. 1861. 

 ''Biol. Cent. Amer., Mamm., p. 52. 1879. 

 ^Amer. Natur., XXV., p. 750. Augiist, 1891. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELnilA. 297 



The Centurionince have no close affinity with the other divisions 

 of the Phyllostoimdidce, for while some of the above characters are 

 shared by the Mormoopbue, the absence of enlarged cutaneous 

 plates on the lower lip immediately shows the distinctness of the 

 subfamilies. The genetic relations are undoubtedly with the 

 Stenoder matinee, but to which portion of it seems doubtful, though 

 Sphceronycteris is possibly the closest related of any. 



CENTURIO Gray. 



1842. Centurio Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., X, p. 259. Type, 



Centurio senex Gray. 

 1861. TricJiocorijcs H. Allen, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 359. 



Type, Centurio mcmurtrii H. Allen { = C'enturio senex Gray). 



Generic Characters. — The same as those of the subfamily of 

 which it is the only genus. Dentition i. ^3;, c. ^^, p. ~~jy, m. ~^. 



The characters used by most of the describers of these species 

 were color and the form of the upper incisors. 



The color differences are slight and can readily be accounted for 

 by the difference of time of immersion in alcohol. The upper 

 incisors also appear to be both two and three lobate, beside 

 bluntly conic. 



Centurio senex Gray. 



1842. Centurio senex Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., X, pp. 259-260 



(" Amboyna," very probably some point on the west coast of Mexico 



or Central America). 

 1844. Centurio senex Gray, Voyage of the Sulphur, Mammalia, pp, 



26, 27, PI. VIII. 



1878. Centurio senex Dobson, Catal. Chirop. Brit. Mus., pp. 543-545, 

 PI. XXX, fig. 6. 



1879. Centurio senex Alston, Biol. Cent. Amer., Mammalia, p. 51. 



1854. Centurio flavocjularis Lichtenstein and Peters, Mouatsber. K 

 Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, p. 335 ("Cuba"). 



1855. Centurio flavogulciris Lichtenstein and Peters, Abhandb. K 

 Akad. Wissensch., Berlin (1854), pp. 87-89, taf. I. 



1860. Centime mexicanus Sanssure, Eevue et Mag. d. Zool., 2e ser. 

 XII, pp. 381-383 (warm region of Mexico). 



1861. Centurio mcmurtrii H. Allen, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp 

 360-361 (Mirador, Vera Cruz, Mexico). 



1879. Centurio mcmurtrii Alston, Biol. Cent. Amer., Mammalia, p 



51, PI. Ill, fig. 8. 

 1891. Centurio minor Ward, American Naturalist, XXV, pp. 750-753 



fig. (Cerro de los Pajeros, Las Vegas, Vera Cruz, Mexico). 



Type Locality. — Erroneously given as "Amboyna" (East 

 Indies). As Gray afterward believed, it in all probability came 

 from America, and a comparison of the route of the " Sulphur " 

 (on the voyage of which the specimen was collected) with the 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



present distribution of the species shows that the specimen was 

 evidently collected on the west coast of Mexico or Central Amer- 

 ica, at some one of the points visited between San Bias and 

 Panama. 



Distribution. — The only accurate records for the occurrence of 

 this species giv^e us little information as to its exact distril)ution. 

 Aside from Mirador and Cerro de los Pajeros, Vera Cruz, Mexico, 

 the only other accurate captures are from Guatemala' and Cartago, 

 Costa Rica; U. S. Nat. Mus., No. iflH- 



It has been recorded from " les regions chaudes du Mexique " 

 by Saussure, and erroneously from Cuba by Lichteustein and 

 Peters. The whole data shows the species to range from south - 

 central Mexico (Cerro de los Pajeros) to Costa Rica (Cartago), 

 probably within zonal limits, but as to this we know little, for 

 while both of the localities in the State of Vera Cruz are well 

 elevated (above 6,000 feet), Cartago lies in a valley between moder- 

 ately high ranges of mountains, and Saussure' s specimen was stated 

 to have come from the warm section of Mexico. 



General Characters. — Those of the genus and subfamily of 

 which it is the only representative. 



Head. — Short, broad and deep; the upper lip emarginate, the 

 lower jaw extending beyond the upper, both with the margin 

 beaded. Face with a median depression between the eyes, this 

 being flanked by a fold of skin with a sinuate border, superior to 

 this lies a semicircular thickening, above which, between the ears, 

 is a large appressed fan-like structure with a crenulate border; 

 above each eye lies an irregular protuberance, bet\veen the eyes 

 extends a narrow sinus which forms the lower margin of the folds 

 mentioned abov^e; between the nostrils lies a flat oblong plale, the 

 upper bordc of which is rounded in some specimens and produced 

 in others, the nostrils being laterally bordered by raised converg- 

 ing ridges which terminate below in lobes on the upper lip on each 

 side of the central emargination, the latter having a small central 

 lobule. The chin folds in the male are highly developed, num- 

 bering three, the anterior one extending from one corner of the 

 mouth to the other, and the posterior one from antitragus to 

 antitragus, the whole being more or less thickly and heavily haired ; 



'Peters, see Alston, Biol. Cent. Amer., Mamm., p. 53. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29^ 



the anterior fold bears a central thickening which is enlarged and 

 extends back toward the second fold which bears a central glandu- 

 lar structure, the third fold having a fold of skin of very consid- 

 erable lateral extent, the whole when pulled forward covering the 

 lower part of the face as a mask ; the female presenting rudimen- 

 tary folds on much the same pattern. Ears not exceeding the 

 muzzle and bearing a large, rather elongate, apically rounded lobe 

 on the internal margin; tragus moderately long, the external mar- 

 gin bearing several lobules, those near the apex usually little 

 developed. 



Limbs. — Forearm of moderate length, the thumb compressed, 

 the third finger moderately long. Tibia and foot rather weak. 

 Calcaneum short. 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes moderately tough; the inter- 

 space between the fourth and fifth digits and the digital area of 

 the mesopatagium transversely gathered, the tension bars being 

 corded. Uropatagium reaching beyond the middle of the femora, 

 the margin haired. The fur extends upon the wing membrane to 

 a line drawn between the elbow and knee. 



Color. — General color above between drab and broccoli brown 

 (Ridgway's Nomenclature, PI. Ill), tending toward isabelline in 

 some alcoholic specimens and mummy bi'own (PL III) in others; 

 below isabelline. Membrane rather pale mars brown (PI. Ill), 

 the interspace between the second and third digits, the gathered 

 portions of the mesopatagium and of the interspace between the 

 fourth and fifth digits semi-transparent. 



Skull. — The skull is short and deep, with the rostral portion 

 very broad and steeply descending. Zygoma flaring. Palate 

 short, twice as broad as long, the cleft being acute-angulate ante- 

 riorly. Auditory bull?e flattened and not very conspicuous. The 

 figure given by Peters (^.c. ) is excellent and will show many 

 points hard to bring out in a description. 



Teeth. — Upper incisoi-s small, the central pair largest though 

 little exceeding the others in vertical extent; apex bluntly conic, 

 bifid or trifid; upper canines robust, with an anterior basal con- 

 cavity; upper premolars very unequal in size, the first half the 

 size of the second which bears several lobules on the posterior 

 margin; upper molars twice as broad as long, the crowns rather 

 flat with three principal cusps, the anterior one larger, the external 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



margin of each bearing one prominent anterior lobe and several 

 posterior to this, the last one of which is considerably developed 

 in the first molar. Lower incisors small, uniform, bifid; lower 

 canines hastate, with an external l)asal shoulder; lower premolars 

 unequal, the first a simple cone, the second larger, with a posterior 

 shoulder; lower molars low, the anterior somewhat larger than the 

 posterior, the latter ranging from subquadrate to subtriangulate in 

 section, each bearing two low angulate cusps. 



Remarks. — It is evident that the species presents some diversity 

 in size and probably some in color, but it is quite as evident that 

 such variation is individual or sexual (the males ))eing on an aver- 

 age slightly larger than the female), and cannot be separated into 

 geographic forms. The single specimen from Costa Rica cannot 

 be separated from specimens from Vera Cruz, jNIexico, and the five 

 specimens (three males, two females) from ]Mirador present con- 

 siderable variation among themselves. 



The species described by Lichtensteiu and Peters ( C. flavogu- 

 laris) and Saussure ( C. mexicanus) can readily l)e jilaced as syno- 

 nyms of C senex, Peters afterward admitting such to be the case 

 with C. flavogidaris ; and Saussure' s C. mexieanus can be matched 

 with specimens of senex, the difference in color ])eing very likely 

 due to the length of immersion in the preserving fluid. The species 

 C. mcmurtrii H. Allen was based on the adult male," the folds 

 being in all px'obability secondary sexual characters. 



A close examination of the description of C. minor Ward shows 

 that the describer was probably misled by Dobson's description of 

 the chin folds, and in the absence of material for comparison he 

 described a female which agrees exactly with two females before me; 

 the discrepancies in measurement beng simply individual, while 

 the second lower premolar of all the available specimens is more 

 than half the size of the first and some are decidedly not triangu- 

 lar in section. The describer of C. minor stated that he would not 

 be surprised " if minor should eventually prove to be but a variety 

 of senex." 



Specimens Examined. — Sex'en: one skin, five alcoholics and one 

 odd skull. 



U. S. N. M., AWe, ale, Mirador, V. C, Mex. d. Coll. 

 Dr. C. Sartorius. Type of Centurio mcmurtrii H. Allen. 



^ " A fact quite evident on the examination of four males, one of which is 

 the type of the species. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



U. S. N. M., HHt, ale, IMirador, V. C, Mex. d. Coll. 

 Dr. C. Sartorius. 



A. N. S., 1,788, ale, Mirador, V. C, Mex. d. Coll. Dr. 

 C. Sartorius. 



A. N. S., 1,787, ale, Mirador, V. C, Mex. 5. Coll. Dr. 

 C. Sartorius. 



A. N. S., 5,500, ale, Mirador, V. C, Mex. 9. Coll. Dr. 

 C. Sartorius. 



A. N. S., 5,063, skull. Pres. Dr. Harrison Allen, 



U. S. N. M, mil skin, Cartago, Costa Riea. d. Decem- 

 ber, 1877. Coll. C. Cervantez. Pres. J. C. Zeledon. 




302 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



1-5 p C 



•snSBJX "J 





1^ : 



gcS 



aS^ 



1^ 



ao 



: £» 



' (^ "S 



■^ ^ ^ ■> X X . o"^ 



<j ^ <; v2 p M_ 

 *^ S **= S -' « 'c 





5 ;_ ^ -I" ~*i" P,rH S r^ 2 in 5 H" , § 

 >■ si ^ i-j i_r _>i L2 iL^ :2 !_:•-; 









5^ ;^ 








1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



THE LIMITS OF VARIATION IN PLANTS. 

 BY JOHN W. HAPvSHBERGER, PH.D. 



One of the most important questions on which the work of the 

 biologist should be brought to bear is the problem of species. We 

 see all living nature — animals and plants — divided into groups 

 which are denominated species. These groups are often clearly 

 and sharply defined, and, on the other hand, often very 

 irregularly characterized. What are the causes which have 

 brought this about ? What are the facts underlying the phe- 

 nomenon of species ? Two difficulties are presented to the earnest 

 student who attempts to formulate an answer to the above-men- 

 tioned questions. The well-known reasoning starts from the fact 

 that more animals or plants are born than can survive; some must 

 therefore perish and leave no descendants, and only those persist 

 which have structures and aptitudes that fit those organisms pos- 

 sessing them to bear their part in the struggle for existence. On 

 the whole, we find that the fittest will survive and breed. 



The first difficulty which presents itself is one which hangs on 

 the magnitude of the variations by which new forms ai*ise. What 

 are the limits of variation ? The older books on evolution consider 

 that the variations by which new species arise are at first small. 

 But if they are small, how can they be sufficiently useful to give 

 to those organisms possessing them an advantage in the struggle for 

 existence ? This is the difficulty of small or initial variations. 



The second difficulty is one known as that of the swamping efiiect 

 of intercrossing. Granting that variations do occur, how can they 

 be perpetuated ? For if the varying individuals breed with each 

 other, will not these variations be obliterated ? 



The following statistical study was undertaken with the purpose 

 of answering the first question, viz. : By what steps — by what 

 integral changes, of what size — did the new form come into exist- 

 ence? At the International Botanical Congress, held in Paris in 

 1900, M. Angel Gallardo spoke highly of the employment of the 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



statistical method in the study of variation/ and it appears to the 

 writer that this method is the only accurate and scientific one that 

 can be employed. Several plants, therefore, were chosen, because 

 of their easy procurement, and measurements were made of their 

 several parts and these measurements tabulated. Several striking 

 facts were brought out during the course of the statistical inquiry, 

 and these are referred to in their proper place throughout the 

 paper. 



The following common plants were chosen for a somewhat 

 detailed measurement of the parts mentioned, viz. : Fruits of the 

 May apple {Podophyllum j^e/tofwju), leaves of the tulip poplar 

 {Liriodendron tulipifera), leaves of the Japanese ivy {Ampelop.m 

 VeitchW), fruits of white oak (Quercus alba), fruits of the swamp 

 chestnut oak (Qaercus prinus paludris), leaves of the moon-seed 

 {MenUpermum eanadense), entire plants of Indian turnip {Ari- 

 scema triphyllum), leaves of bloodroot (^Sanguinaria canadensis), 

 leaves of the tree of heaven (^Ailanthus glandxdosa) — the latter 

 plant not being studied statistically, but in a comparative way to 

 bring out some peculiarities of its pinnation. The material was 

 used either in the green condition or it was used in the preserved 

 state (dry or alcoholic). In all cases where leaves were taken, 

 careful tracings were made by a sharp-pointed lead pencil upon 

 ordinary drawing or raanila paper, and these tracings were after- 

 ward accurately measured. The character of the material, 

 whether fresh, dry or alcoholic, is mentioned in connection with 

 the subjoined tables. Prof. Halsted' has shown that leaves suffer 

 in drying, but in drying, as they all maintain the same relative 

 size, the results which are mainly comparative do not seem 

 to be vitiated. 



The measurement of the linear dimensions of the leaves and 

 parts of the plants was made by a standardized boxwood scale 

 manufactured by Keuffel & Essler Co., New York, which ruler 

 was divided into centimeters, millimeters and half-millimeters, the 

 length of the scale being twenty centimeters in all. Superficial 

 dimensions, in order to be accurate and expressive of the real size 

 of the leaf or other part, require a detailed trigonometrical calcu- 



' 1900, Botanical Qazette, " Account of the International Botanical Con- 

 gress,'' XXX, p. 405. 



^Halsted, Bulletin lorrey Botanical Club, xxi, p. 127. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



lation of areas by means of the angles and the sides of plane and 

 spherical triangles, the sides of squares, rectangles, Irapezoids 

 and the like. Nothing being gained by such a mathematical 

 study, measurements of the superficial extent of the vegetal parts 

 are omitted. Linear dimensions in the tables are given in deci- 

 meters, centimeters and millimeters. 



The weight of the fiuit and seeds of the May apple are given in 

 grams and decimals of the gram. The volume in cubic centime- 

 ters nas determined by the amount of distilled water displaced by 

 putting the fruits, the carefully cleaned and dried seeds, in a vessel 

 filled to the brim Avith that liquid. 



The linear measurements of the veins of the leaves used were 

 obtained by adopting the following method of procedure. The 

 midrib was first carefully measured, then the first line drawn on 

 the left side from the base of the leaf to the apex of the first left 

 lobe, and the second and third lines were also measured in the 

 same manner.' The length of the parts on the right side was then 

 determined, as also the depth in certain cases of the sinuses, 

 beginning with the first sinus on the left of the middle lobe. 

 Proceeding in the same way, after completing the measurements on 

 the left, the right-hand side of the leaf was measured, the apex 

 pointing away from one's person. The greatest width, of the 

 several lobes is also given in the tables, and the width of the 

 widest portion of the leaf itself is also stated by way of a com- 

 parison. 



Measurements. 



Podophyllum peltatum (Mayapple). 



Twenty fruits were gathered in an open wood, carefully washed 

 and wiped to remove adhering soil particles. After weighing, the 

 volume of each fruit was determined, and afterward the seeds were 

 removed, dried carefully, cleaned and weighed. The volume of 

 the seeds was also ascertained by displacement. By subtracting 

 the weight of the seeds from the weight of the fruit, the weight of 

 the pulp may be ascertained, and in the same manner, by sub- 



* Measurements of the fifth and sixth leaves of Table IV, part 1 were made 

 from a base line drawn from lowest part of the two basal lobes. In the 

 same manner also for leaves 1, 2, 3 of Table III, part 1, for D and E leaves 

 Table Y. 



20 




30() 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



tracting volumes, its volume. The following table (I) presents 

 the results of these determinations: 



I. Fi'esJi Fruits of May apple {Podophyllum peltaUnn). 



A study of this table shows that the fize of the fruits and the 

 number of the seeds varies within wide limits. The largest fruit 

 with 52 seeds (No. 2) weighed 35.50 grams and displaced 36 c.c. 

 of water. The smallest fruit (No. 19) with 2 seeds weighed 25.20 

 grams less, and displaced 10 c.c. of water, a difference of 26 c.c. 

 This difference is due, without doubt, to imperfect fertilization of 

 the ovules of the nineteenth plant. However, if we compare 

 fruits No. 3 and No. 11, having the same number of good seeds, 

 Ave find a very considerable difference; or if we institute a com- 

 parison between fruits No. 5 and No. 17, we find the variations 

 to be even more striking. The table also shows that the weight of 

 the fruit largely depends on the amount of the pulpy pericarp. 



Sanguinaria canadensis (Bloodroot). 



There arise from the rootstock of this plant two lanceolate, 

 membranous scale leaves, and a single palmate, glaucous foliage 

 leaf variously lobed, sometimes only undulate. A reference to the 

 table will show that the thirty-three leaves taken for comparison 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



are extremely variable, the variations beiug within wide limits. 

 The first leaf, au evolved one, was the largest one measured. If 

 it is contrasted with a juvenile leaf No. 15, one of the smallest 

 leaves, a wide divergence is noted. It is important, however, to 

 notice here that an absolute comparison cannot be drawn, because 

 of the wide variation in parts of. the leaves themselves. For ex- 

 ample, although in most of its dimensions leaf No. 15 is a small 

 one, yet its midrib is longer than the midrib of No, 9, which is 

 a middle-sized one. Therefore in comparing the large leaf No. 1 

 with the smallest leaf No. 15, these variables must be taken into 

 consideration. 



It is important to distinguish between the juvenile and adult 

 forms of leaves. The differences in the construction of the juve- 

 nile and adult form are in general more different when the external 

 conditions to which they are severally adapted are different, 

 whilst if these do not operate, the primary leaves with which we 

 have here first to deal are only arrested formations. In many plants 

 reversion of the adult to the juvenile form frequently occurs. 

 Evidently leaf No. 15 represents a juvenile form of leaf, that is, 

 one derived from a rootstock which has been directly formed from 

 the seedling plant, and the larger more deeply lobed leaves, such 

 as No. 1, represent forms derived from a rhizome which has per- 

 sisted for some years. In making these statistical measurements, 

 therefore, the amount of the difference between the juvenile and 

 adult forms is clearly set forth, as also the adult leaf variations 

 mathematically expressed. 



In the accompanying tables (II and Ila), L. = length, W. = 

 width of lobe, a star (*) beside a number indicates that the deter- 

 mination of the width of that lobe was made by measuring the 

 length of a perpendicular from a line drawn from the base of a 

 leaf to the apex of the lobe. The measurements were made from 

 a basal point where the primary veins of the leaf meet. Fresh 

 leaves were used in making the sketches from which the dimensions 

 later were taken. The lowest point of the leaf was ascertained by 

 measuring from the vein of the last and lowest lobe of the leaf on the 

 right and left sides to the apex of the most projecting curve or 

 angle toward the base of the leaf. The breadth of the leaf was 

 determined by measuring across the widest portion of the leaf 

 lamina. 




308 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Liriodendron tulipifera (Tulip Poplar). 



The leaves of this tree ai*e extremely variable, aud different 

 forms of leaves are found by careful examination on the same tree, 

 as so clearly shown by Holm/ who has reduced many of the 

 fossil species established by Heer, Lesquereux and Saporta to the 

 tulipifera form, by finding that a large number of the fossil leaves 

 upon which specific characters were founded are duplicated by the 

 leaves from living trees. GoebeF has shown that it is necessary, 

 in studying leaf forms, to contrast the juvenile and adult condi- 

 tions, because these vary from each other within wide limits. It 

 is of course impossible to limit these sharply. The difference 

 between these juvenile stages and the adult form may be more or 

 less great. The present statistical inquiry is intended to mathe- 

 maticallv contrast these variations. The juvenile forms of leaves 

 in Liriodendron, beginning with the first leaf above the cotyle- 

 dons, may be described as follows : The first leaf is obreuiform, 

 i.e, two rounded lobes and rather deep angular sinus; the second 

 leaf is approximately bilobed, somewhat squarer than a typical 

 obcordate leaf; the third aud fourth leaves are deltoid with shallow 

 apical sinus, and therefore almost horizontal on top; the fifth 

 leaf from the cotyledons is four-lobsd with deep, rounded left and 

 right sinuses, shallow apical sinus and two distinct obtuse apical 

 lobes; the sixth leaf is entire, almost square, with two small lateral 

 lobes and narrowed apical portion. In general, the first four or 

 even five leaves on the very young tulip tree have the same form 

 as the oldest and youngest on the branches of the full-grown tree. 

 The best description of the adult leaf is by A, Michaux,^ as fol- 

 lows: " Foliis abscisso-truncatis, quadri-lobatis," and this descrip- 

 tion has been accepted by such authorities as Bentham and Hooker, 

 aud Gray. Britton' describes the leaves in this manner: " Leaves 

 glabrous, very broadly ovate or nearly orbicular in outline, trun- 

 cate or broadly notched at the apex, truncate, rounded or coi'date 

 at the base, 3'-6' long with 2 apical and 2-4 basal lobes with 

 rounded sinuses, or occasional!}^ entire." The juvenile leaves, as 

 above described, vary remarkably from those adult forms described 



* 1890. Holm, " Notes on the Leaves of Liriodendron," Proceedings of th& 

 Neitioned Museum, XIII, p. 15. 

 'Goebel, Organograpliie der Pflanzen, I. Theil, pp. 121-15L 

 ®1803, A. Michaax, Flora Boreali-Ainerkunn. p. 326. 

 ' 1897, Britton and Brown, Illustreited Flora, II, p. 49. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



SO carefully by Britton and Michaux. In order to correlate the 

 different varieties with one another, it is necessary to ask tAVO ques- 

 tions: Is the leaf form an arrested one, or does it represent an 

 advanced condition of growth ? I believe that all the forms known 

 can be classified either as arrested, evolved or reverted forms. 

 Before, however, making this classification, it is necessary to state 

 the fact that the oldest and youngest leaf on the same branch 

 show an entirely different form from the intermediate ones, of 

 which the form with four-lobed leaf may be taken as the normal 

 one for our Lirlodendron tuUpiJera^ The fact that the oldest 

 and youngest leaf on the same branch can differ so much from the 

 other ones seems to be almost constant for the full-grown tree. It 

 must also be emphasized that the intermediate leaves have, in- 

 stead of four lobes, sometimes six or even eight lobes as teeth. 



Arrested Leaves. — The oldest and youngest leaves which have a 

 shape somewhat like those of the seedling plant are evidently 

 arrested ones. The primordium of the youngest leaf of a normal 

 branch has been arrested in its development at a certain stage, and 

 therefore the leaf exhibits an evident often extremely different 

 configuration. 



Reverted Leaves. — The gigantic leaves from the sprouts (meas- 

 ures below) evidently belong to this category, and are in shape 

 like leaf No. 5 of the seedling tree. 



Evolved Leaves. — The four-lobed leaves, whether provided with 

 deep or shallow sinuses, and the six to eight-lobed leaves referred 

 to above have acquired their different character by passing through 

 a further transformation. In other cases where this rough classi- 

 fication does not apply, the form of the leaf may be explained by 

 the persistence or duration of the juvenile form, which produces 

 leaves scarcely less variable than the others mentioned above. All 

 of these facts have been taken into consideration in making the 

 msasurements. 



In Table III are presented the measurements of two terminal 

 normal branches, the leaves being counted from the base in an 

 ascending direction. The amount of variation is shown by com- 

 paring the leaves of the same position on the two shoots. The 

 statistical study of the youngest, oldest and intermediate leaves of 

 the normal branch brings out quantitatively the effect which the 

 light exercises upon the development of the leaves. That light is 



*Holm, I. c. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIEKCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 



311 



tlie coutrolliug influence in regulating the size of dorsiventral 

 organs, such as foliage leaves, has been abundantly proven. The 

 measurements presented in Table III will at some future time be 

 compared with those obtained from seedling plants, so as more 

 clearly lo present statistically the similarity of the youngest and 

 oldest leaves of the normal shoot and the juvenile ones of the 

 seedling tree. 



Table IV presents the statistical study of the leaves of a normal 

 shoot taken from a tree growing at Raven Rock, Pa. In compar- 

 ing the figures of this table with those of Table III, it is necessary 

 to read from the bottom up, leaf No. 7 of Table IV being com- 

 pared with leaf No. 1 of Table III. 



The leaves obtained from sprouts growing from a stump were out 

 of all proportion to the size of the leaves on normally produced 

 shoots. Table V shows the largest of the leaves studied to be .370 

 mm. long and .432 mm. wide. A comparison also of the leaves of 

 the sprouts Avith each other indicates that a very considerable vari- 

 ation occurs. By contrasting these sprout leaves with normal ones, 

 the limits of the variations in this one plant are clearly set forth. 

 Variations which are due to the reversion of the sprout leaves to 

 the juvenile forms on the seedling plants, however, enormously 

 increased in size. It should be mentioned, also, that the stipules 

 of the leaves on the sprouts are correspondingly increased in size, 

 are permanent and assimilative, not caducous, as the small stipules 

 of normal leaves. Measurements of these stipules are also given: 



///. Fresh Leaves of Liriocletulron tulipifera {two terminal shoots count- 

 ing from bctse to apex). 



Second Shoot. 




312 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



IV. Normal Tree, Liriodendron tuUpifera, Raven Rock, July 4., 1900 

 {open leaves counted from top). 



V. Leaves of Liriodendron tuUpifera Produced on Sprouts from the Stump 

 {alcoJioUc material). 



* Unopened leaves. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



313 



Menispermum canadense (Moonseed). 



The leaves of two entire plants of this species were taken, the 

 leaves being numbered from the apex toward the base. In the 

 first place, the table shows the limits of variability in the adult 

 leaves of the same stem, and also contrasts the individual leaves 

 of the two plants, leaf 5 or 6 of one plant being compared with 

 leaf 5 or 6 of the other plant: 



VI. Menispermum canadense {tico plants in fresh state). 



Quercus alba (White Oak). 



The size of the nuts enclosed by the cupule in the oak varies in 

 an interesting manner. The fruits of two species of oak collected 

 by Dr. J. T. Kothrock on October 19, 1863, were studied statis- 

 tically. It is supposed that the fruits in drying preserved the same 

 relative size that they had when in the fresh, fully ripe condition. 

 The three swamp chestnut oaks from which the fruits were obtained 

 were standing close together, and each was fully three feet iu 

 diameter. Table VIII presents the measurements of the swamp 

 chestnut oak acorns, and Table VII those of the white oak : 




314 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 

 VIL Quercus alba. 



[April, 



VIII. Quercus prinus var. palustris. 




1901.] 



NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



315 



Arissema triphylluni (Indian Tuniip). 



Two plants were collected in the woods at Shawmont, Pa., grow- 

 ing under exactly similar conditions of soil and light exposure. 

 The following measurements present in a statistical manner the 

 variations which occur in the leaves and other parts of the two 

 plants. The number of perfect fruits depended upon the success 

 of the process of fertilization. The number of seeds in each 

 berry varies from 1 to 4 in number: 



IX. Ariscema triphyllum {tioo plants). 



X. Arismma triphyllum {leaves of two plants). 



Ampelopsis Veitchii (Japanese Ivy). 



The measurements of the leaves of this plant are presented in 

 Table X. The young plants have normally trifoliate leaves and 

 unifohate ones interspersed. The seedlings always have trifoliate 

 leaves without any unifoliate ones. This points to the ancestor of 




316 



I'ROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



both the Japanese species (Amjielopsis Veitchii) and the American 

 species (A. quinquefolia) as oue with three leaflets, the Japanese 

 species later becoming uuifoliate, the American species developing 

 five leaflets, the seedlings of both plants being trifoliate. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 317 



Ailanthus glandulosa (Tree of Heaven). 



Some interesting facts were brought out in the study of the leaves 

 of this species. Two kinds of leaves were met with, viz., trans- 

 formed or evolved leaves and arrested ones. In order properly to 

 understand the variations which have taken place, it is necessary 

 to refer to the seedling condition as a starting-point. According 

 to Lubbock,' the first leaves are compound, trifoliate, petiolate, 

 exstipulate; terminal leaflets acuminate, subacute, entire; lateral 

 ones slightly toothed, ultimately glabrescent, petiolate, light green, 

 alternately pinnate-nerved ; petioles ribbed or striated, covered 

 with short glandular hairs; the young leaves are also covered with 

 fine silky hairs near their edges. The normal fully developed 

 leaves are pinnate with an odd leaflet provided, as a rule, with 

 from 5 to 9 pairs of lateral leaflets. The youngest leaves of the 

 side or terminal branches are juvenile in form and of two kinds, 

 viz., undeveloped or arrested juveniles and seedhng juveniles. For 

 example, on one branch the lowest leaf is broadly lanceolate with 

 two small lobes with glandular apices on the upper entire margin; 

 the lower side has a larger glandular tipped lobe and an acute 

 sinus. This leaf is an arrested juvenile one, the primordium 

 growing out into the terminal leaflet before the formation of the 

 paired lateral ones. The second leaf of the same branch is pin- 

 nately trifoliate; the lateral j)aired leaflets asymmetric, cut away 

 obliquely on the lower margin and rounded on the upper, while the 

 terminal leaflet is broadly ovate, acuminate with a single basal, 

 glandular-tij^ped lobe on the upper margin. The other leaves of 

 this branch are pinnate with an odd leaflet provided with 5 to 6 

 pairs of lateral leaflets. The odd leaflet is lanceolate with two 

 glandular teeth on the lower margin and one on the upper. 



The second branch studied shows a somewhat similar condition 

 of affairs; the earliest formed leaf is more deeply lobed at the 

 base, each lobe with rather deep sinuses, the upper narrow sinus 

 cutting in almost to the midrib. The terminal leaflets of the 

 pinnate leaves are also narrowly lanceolate with glandular teeth 

 at the base. One leaf, however, is abruptly pinnate by the non- 

 development of the terminal odd leaflet. 



Two divergent types of leaves may be said thus to exist on the 

 same tree, one type of leaf being due to the arrestment cf the 



»1892, Lubbock, Seedlinc/s, I, p. 327. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



terminal odd leaflet. Several steps in this suppression of the odd 

 leaflet were gathered. One pinnate foliage leaf shows a very 

 narrow somewhat unequally trilobed odd leaflet; another a still 

 narrower almost linear, glandular-toothed terminal leaflet. A 

 third one has a filiform odd leaflet; a fourth pinnate foliage leaf 

 has a simple boss in place of the odd leaflet, this small protuber- 

 ance seeming to persist as a rudiment in all of the leaves studied. 

 This arrestment of the normal development is carried a step far- 

 ther, the terminal paired lateral leaflets beginning to manifest a 

 reduction in size, becoming in one leaf studied small, elliptical in 

 outline with a retuse apex, all the other leaflets studied having an 

 acuminate apex. The other line of variation stai-ts with the 

 lanceolate odd leaflet which becomes increasingly broader. Some 

 have a rounded, retuse apex, others have an acuminate point. 

 From simple glandular teeth at the base of the odd leaflet, these 

 glandular teeth increase in size until they become glandular tipped 

 lobes separated from each other by rather shallow, acute sinuses, 

 this line of advanced development proceeding until the terminal 

 leaflet reaches a broadly ovate, trilobed form, each lobe being 

 narrowly acuminate. Finally, as if to approach a climax, one of 

 these lobes becomes almost distinct at the base, but is still concres- 

 cent with the basal part of the leaflet and the upper side of its 

 petiole. In another leaf gathered, as representing the climax, 

 this lanceolate entire basal lobe is separated by the cutting in of 

 the sinus to the midrib; the asymmetric upper portion also becomes 

 deeply lobed by the formation of rounded depressions. The lateral 

 intermediate leaflets of the pinnate leaves are all asymmetric with 

 an oblique base, the obliquity inclining downward. A glandular 

 tooth is usually found on the upper and lower margins; if three 

 glands are present, two are found on the lower margin, oue^on the 

 upper. If only one gland is present it is always on the rounded, 

 oblique lower edge. Occasionally a basal, rounded, glandular- 

 tipped lobe is found on the lower edge of the lateral pinuie of a 

 large foliage leaf. We cannot doubt that asymmetry of leaflets 

 chiefly appears when their parts are unsymmetrically related to 

 their environment."' We may say in general, with Herbert Spen- 

 cer, that that side of the leaf is the smaller which is shaded, and 



^^ Herbert Spencer, Principles of Biology, II, p. 113. 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIKMCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



that the obliquity of the leaf is occasioned by its fitting itself to 

 utilize the space at its disposal. 



Summary and Conclusion. 



1. This study of the limits of variations in plants was under- 

 taken as, in part, a contribution to the problem of species. 



2. Moreover, this study was undertaken to provide statistical 

 data which would throw light upon the difficulty, from an evolu- 

 tionary standpoint, of small or initial variations. 



3. Considerable vai'iation in the size and shape of leaves is evi- 

 dent, and the amount of the variation was determined statistically; 

 the weight and volume of fruits were calculated ; the number of 

 seeds was determined. 



4. The quantitative amount of variation in the juvenile, arrpsted 

 and transformed leaves of a number of plants was also determined 

 and tabulated. 



5. In Liriodendrontulljjifera, Sanguinaria canadensis, and Ailan- 

 thus glandulosa it was ascertained that variation in the size and 

 configuration of the leaves of these plants is in part due to t he 

 persistence of juvenile forms, to the arrested development of such 

 leaves, to their evolution and transformation to higher forms. The 

 amount of these diflereuces Avas also tabulated. 



6. In conclusion, it may be stated that these changes in most 

 cases are due to two causes: the internal hei^editary impulse deter- 

 mining, as in Ailanthus glandulosa, the asymmetry of the lateral 

 paired leaflets, and the direct environmental influence fitting 

 the leaf to utilize the space at its disposal, and thus enabling it 

 to present the largest amount of leaf surface to light action. We 

 have, therefore, in the tables an exact mathematical expression 

 of the influence of the various operating factors which determine 

 plant form. 




320 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[^lay, 



May 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, jNI.D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



May 14. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M. D. , in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



Demonstration that Plants (jive off Oxyrjen. — Dr. Ida A. Keller 

 remarked that there is no process in plant life of greater import- 

 ance than the evolution of oxygen in the synthetic preparation of 

 starch by the chlorophyll in the presence of sunlight. In teaching 

 such physiological phenomena it is important to demonstrate them 

 in such a manner as to leave no doubt in ihe mind of the pupil. 

 The method usually described (by Detmer and others) to illustrate 

 this process is quite familiar to all students of botany. It is repre- 

 sented by figure 1. 



A piece of Elodea Canadensis is placed in a jar containing 

 water. A funnel is inverted over the plant and a test tube filled 

 with water is inverted over the funnel. The water is charged with 

 carbon dioxide and the apparatus is placed in the sunlight. Ver}' 

 soon bubbles of gas are disengaged and collected in the test tube. 

 The gas may then be shown to be oxygen. Oq account of ihe 

 limited capacity of the apparatus employed and the comparatively 

 small extent of the assimilating surface, this method is not very 

 useful for purposes of demonstration because of the small volume 

 of gas liberated. 



2 s 



She had found the following extremely satisfactory : — A receiver 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



holding two or three litres is employed and into this a considerable 

 quantity of Cabomba Carolinlana or Myrio2:>hyllam sjncatuvi is 

 introduced (fig. 2). The water is thoroughly charged Avith carbon 

 dioxide and the plants are then exposed to the sunlight. Little 

 streams of gas are seen to pass upward from various points, and 

 when sufficient gas has collected at the top of the flask, the latter 

 is immersed in a tank of water in a horizontal position in such a 

 manner that the gas is directly under the opening (fig. 3). On 

 turning the stop-cock and applying a splinter of wood with a 

 spark on the end of it the gas will be found to be oxygen. 



When the supply of carbon dioxide in the water has been 

 exhausted the plant will no longer give off bubbles of oxygen. 

 The process may be again initiated by passing carbon dioxide into 

 the receiver. Before testing it is best to allow the carbon dioxide 

 to become exhausted, since in recharging the water it is impossible 

 to avoid collecting some of this gas over the liquid and adulter- 

 ating the oxygen. On standing it is gradually absorljed by the 

 water and consumed by the plant. In any case the gas collected is 

 not pure oxygen, but it is sufficiently rich in this substance to 

 make an eflectiv'e demonstration. 



The deaths of D. Shepherd Holman, a member. May 13, and 

 of Thomas C. Porter, a correspondent, April 27, were announced. 



May 21. 



Mr. Charles INIorris in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 

 " Fishes from the Caroline Islands," by Henry W. Fowler. 

 " Types of Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler. 



Strudure of Diatoms. — Mr. Frank J. Keeley remarked that 

 in studying ihe structure of diatom valves some years ago the 

 method employed : mounting broken valves at right angles to the 

 cover glass, proved efficient for most of the coarsely marked forms, 

 but failed with certain species of Aulacodlscus. 



Such forms as ^-1. SoUittianns, A. uiargarataceous, etc., yielded 

 satisfactory sectional views and proved not to differ materially in 

 structure from Coscmodiscus ; but another group, including A. 

 Oreganus, A. Rogersii, A. Jaaischii, etc., proved too opaque for 

 the elucidation of their structure by this method. Further exam- 



21 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ination of fragments in which the plates were separated indicated, 

 however, that the typical "honeycomb" cellular structure was 

 likewise present in these species, but masked by the unusual char- 

 acter of the external plate, which differs from that of other dia- 

 toms in having the finer secondary structure between, rather than 

 over, the large cells of the middle plate. 



Recently, with the view of further determining the relations of 

 this structure to that of other species, a special mount was pre- 

 pared, including A. Oreganus, A. RogersH, with typical species of 

 Coscinodiscus, Triceratlwn, Actinocydus, Actinoptyclius, etc. The 

 various forms were arranged in a line on a square cover-glass, 

 supported on the slide by bands of cement at two opposite edges, 

 thus permitting fluids of varying refractive indices to be passed 

 under the cover and withdrawn by the use of blotting paper in the 

 manner familiarly known as " irrigation." 



The fluids employed consisted of absolute alcohol, cedar oil, oil 

 of cassia and mixtures of same, giving refractive indices from 

 about 1.37 to over 1.60. Starting with the lowest refractive 

 index, the appearance of each diatom was carefully noted under 

 low, medium and high aperture objectives, and it was found that 

 all the species represented, with the exception of the two Aulaco- 

 discii, became fainter as the refractive index was increased up to 

 about 1.435, when they were entirely invisible, except where in 

 contact Avith the cover glass. As the index of the medium sur- 

 rounding them was increased above this point they became more 

 distinct, the coarser forms being almost opaque in oil of cassia. 

 This is exactly what should have been expected, either on theo- 

 retical grounds or based on previously published experiments, but 

 in the case of the two species of Aulacodiscus mentioned the 

 distinctness of visibility under a low power seemed to increase from 

 the start, and in the medium where other forms disappeared they 

 were even more strongly outlined than in alcohol, while under an 

 oil immersion-objective no difference could be noted in the sharpness 

 and contrast with which the secondary structure was shown in any 

 of the various fluids, although portions of the internal j^lates, which 

 extended beyond the external plate in broken forms, were extin- 

 guished with the rest of the diatoms on the slide, showing that the 

 ■anomalous behavior of these siiecies was confined to the external 

 plate, containing the secondary structure. Neither heating to 

 redness on platinum foil nor boiling in strong acids has the least 

 effect on the appearance of the secondary structure, nor is there 

 anything to indicate that its appearance is due to diflerence in 

 composition rather than of structure. With the facts at present 

 available it would be useless to hazard a conjecture as to the true 

 nature of this structui-e, but it may be safely affirmed that in the 

 external plate of this group of species of Aulacodiscus we have a 

 structure essentially difierent from that found among other diatoms. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Aulacodiscu-s Oregamus is one of the few diatoms that show bright 

 colors with central transmitted light. The two valves of this 

 species included on slide under observation, when examined with a 

 three-fourths-inch objective of .25 IST. A., were bronze-yellow when 

 dry, yellowish gray in alcohol, bluish gray in medium of 1.41 

 R.I., iridescent blue in medium of 1.44 R.I., deep greenish blue in 

 cedar oil, dark green and pink in oil of cassia. 



The question of colors shown by diatoms in direct light has 

 recently been treated in the Journal of the Queckett Club, with special 

 reference to Actinocyclus Ealfsil, by E. jM. Nelson, who has shown 

 that the color cannot be due to diftraction. The two valves of 

 A. Ralfsii which were included in the previously described slide 

 showed only pale brown and grayish tints in media of R.I. below 

 1.50, and extinguished with the other forms in one of R.I. about 

 1.48. In cedar oil one valve showed a blue color and in oil of 

 cassia both became brilliant with green, blue, purple and yellow. 

 Under wide aperture objectives the color is not visible when diatom 

 is sharply in focus, but appears as soon as thrown slightly out of 

 focus. This color appears to be due to dispersion, and its nature 

 and cause might possibly be further elucidated by studying the 

 effect produced by different media such as were employed in this 

 case. 



May 28. 

 ]\[r. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 

 " Contributions to the Life History of Plants, No. XV," by 



Thomas Meehan. 



" Observations on the Placenta and Young of Dasypus sex- 



ciuctus, " by Henry C. Chapman, M.D. 



The death of Dr. D. B. McCartee, a corresj)ondeut, July 1, 

 1900, was announced. 



]Mr. Adolph Fredholm was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



FISHES FROM CAROLINE ISLAND. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



In the Proeeeclings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia for 1899, pp. 482 to 496, the writer has wrongly 

 ascribed to the Caroline Islands a collection of fishes the Academy 

 had lately received. 



The error was due in part to the similarity of names and in part 

 to confusion of labels. 



The Caroline Islands, sometimes called New Philippines, com- 

 prise the greater part of IMicrouesia, and are entirely different 

 and remote from the Caroline Island. Caroline or Thornton 

 Island is a group of low coral islands on a single reef seven 

 miles long and one mile wide, situated in Lat. 10° 0' 01" S., Long. 

 150° 14' 30" W. 



Since the collection referred to came into the Academy's posses- 

 sion, others from the estate of Prof. E. D. Cope have been re- 

 ceived. Among these were a few fishes from Caroline Island, none 

 of which are recorded in the preceding paper. To Dr. H. A. Pils- 

 bry, who has examined these later collections, I am indebted for 

 more complete and precise data. 



He states that the collections were made by Mr. C. D. Voy, 

 who was an enthusiastic collector residing in California a number 

 of years ago. He accumulated private collections, of which he 

 disposed, using the proceeds to make an expedition across the 

 Pacific to New Zealand. Upon this expedition he visited the Sand- 

 wich Islands and several of the islands of the south seas, among 

 them Caroline Island, where all the fishes were collected. At least 

 the Academy has not received any from other localities visited 

 on this expedition. How Prof. Cope obtained the collection I 

 do not know. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



1, CarcharMnus melanopterus (Quoy and Gaimanl). 



CarcJiarias melanopterus Quoy aud Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie, 

 Zool., 1324, p. 194, PI. 43, figs. 1 et 2. 



No. 23,768. (Dried skin.) 



Form of the body elongate. Head rather flattened or com- 

 pressed and with a rounded obtuse snout. Eyes lateral. No 

 spiracle. The origin of the D. is much nearer the origin of the 

 P. than the origin of the V. The tip of the D. not reaching the 

 origin of the V. when depressed. The origin of the posterior D. 

 is slightly in advance of the origin of the A. Upper lobe of the 

 caudal long. All of the fins with a black distal spot or edge. 

 Above dark brownish, below whitish. Total length with caudal 

 47 cm. 



HOLOOENTRID^. 

 8. Holooentrus microstomus (Gunther). 



Holoce/iti'um microstoma Giiuther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., I, 1859, p. 

 34. 



No. 23,769. 



A single small specimen, appearing to agree in most particulars 

 with the descriptions of the present species. The black D. spots 

 upon the upper portion of the membranes between the first 4 spines 

 distinct. There are also 4 blackish spots upon the upper surface 

 of the head. 



SOARID^. 



3. Scarus T 



There are a number of pharyngeal teeth in the collection which 

 belong either to species of the present genus or Pieudoscarus. 



TEUTHIDID^. 



4. Teuthis triostegus (Liunteus). 



Cheetodoii triostegus LiarKsas, Syst. Nat. Ed. X, 1753, p. 274. 

 Nos. 23,771 and 23,772. 



5. Teuthis sp.? 

 No. 23,770. 



A young specimen resembling species of Acronurus described by 

 Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus,, III, 1861, p. 346. 



The depth of the body is Ih iu the length without caudal. 

 Crests of the head serrated. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



TETRAODONTID^. 



6. Spheroides sp'? 

 No. 23,773. 



The skin is perfectly smooth above, and the inflated abdomen is 

 beset with rather large and sparsely distributed prickles. The eye 

 is contained about twice in the somewhat flat interorbital space. 

 The origin of the D. in advance of the A. Above blackish, 

 below lighter, and the caudal with a median black blotch. Sides 

 of the body with a number of blackish spots about the size of the 

 eye. 



This example is in very bad condition. 



OANTHIGASTERID^. 



7. Canthigaster margaritatus (RUppel). 



Tetraodon margaritatus Riippel, Atlas zu der Reise ira Xiirdl. Afrika, 

 1826, p. 66. 



Nos. 23,774 and 2-3, 77-5. 



SCORP^NID^. 



8. Pterois radiata Cu\ier and Valenciennes. 



Pterois radiata Cavier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IV, 1829, 

 p. 271. 



Nos. 23,776 and 23,777. 



BLENNID^. 



9. Salarias periophthalmus Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Salarias periophthalmus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 

 XI, 1836, p. 230, PI. 328. 



No. 23,778. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



TYPES OF FISHES. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The history of the Academy's collection of fishes, like that of 

 others in possession of the Society, begins with contributions during 

 the early days of its existence. These contributions were at first 

 mainly small donations from members and others, the number 

 gradually increasing by additions from special regions. In 18(38 

 we find that owing to the then greatly increased size of this depart- 

 ment of ihe museum, a joint report of a Committee on herpetology 

 and ichthyology was printed. Exploration of different parts 

 of America then furnished the xVcademy with many of the most 

 valuable additions. Accessions were received from Dr. J. K. 

 Townseud, Prince Charles Lucien Bonaparte, Drs. W. 0. Ayres, 

 \V. S. W. Ruschenberger, Charles Hering, William A. Hammond, 

 Charles C. Abbott, J. H. Slack, H. C. Woo.l, W. II. Jones, 

 Messi's. Samuel Ashmead, P. Duchaillu, Samuel Powel, Rev. 

 Alden Grout, Prof. William M. Gabb, the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion, Prof. E. D, Cope, and the United States Fish Commission. 

 Many other collections of greater or less size were also received, 

 but as tlie writer wishes to call attention to only a few of the more 

 important reference to them may be omitted. INIost of these have 

 been treated of fully or in part in the publications of the Academy 

 or other American journals. 



The collection of Prince C. L. Bonaparte was purchased and 

 presented by Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, who was also a generous con- 

 tributor to many other departments of the Academy. This collec- 

 tion, consisting for the most part of Italian fishes, contained all 

 the species figured and described in the Fauna Italiea, most of 

 which are still well preserved. The greater part of ihis collection 

 consisted of alcohohcs, though there were 177 examples of dried 

 skins. 



Mr. Ashmead' s collections were mostly local, like those of Dr. 

 Abbott, who published a number of his observations. Dr. Ayres 




828 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



made collections principally in California, Dr. Hammond in Kan- 

 sas and Mr. Powel in Rhode Island. In the West Indies Dr. Van 

 Rijgersma collected at St. Martins, Dr. Griffith in St. Croix and 

 Dr. H. C. Wood in New Providence. Dr. Hering collected fishes 

 in Surinam and Dr. Ruschenberger at Rio Janeiro and various 

 other localities. Many of the most valuable additions were pre- 

 sented by the Smithsonian Institution, among which are a series 

 of typical examples, mostly Catostomidse and Cyprinidae. The 

 explorations in the west and southwestern regions of tlie United 

 States secured many novelties described by Dr. Charles Girard and 

 Prof. S. F. Baird. 



The most extensive and numerous contributions are due to the 

 exertions of Prof. E. D. Cope. Collections from the Kanawha, 

 Holston and Roanoke rivers included large series of species with 

 many types. His entire alcoholic collection was bequeathed to the 

 Academy, including many fresh -water fishes from the upper 

 Amazons, made by Prof. James Orton and John Hauxwell. 



The fishes obtained in the province of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, 

 should be mentioned, as they are the basis of Cope's last im- 

 portant contribution to South American ichthyology. His other 

 noteworthy collections are from Pennsylvania, North Carolina, 

 Texas and Florida. 



In the present paper it is intended only to treat of the Marsi- 

 pobranchii, Selachii and Ganoidei, and it is believed that refer- 

 ences to all the typical representatives of these groups that are pre- 

 served in the collections are included. 



I have appended rather rough descriptions of the alimentary or 

 enteric canal to most of the species fit for dissection, which are 

 represented by duplicates. 



To the authorities of the Academy I am much indebted for per- 

 mission to make these dissections from duplicate specimens. 



PETROMYZONID^. 



1. lohthyomyzon concolor (KirUund). 



Ammoc(£tes concolor Kirtland, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., Ill, 1841, p. 

 473, PI. XXVII, %. 1. 



No. 354. Type of Ammoaeies mpytera Abbott, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Fhila., 1660, p. 327. Ohio river. Dr. Hildreth. 



As I am unable to determine this larval specimen satisfactorily, 

 I have followed Profs. Jordan and Evermann in provisionally 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF FHILADELPHIA. 329 



referring it lo the above species. It has about 5G muscular bauds 

 between the posterior gill-opening and the anus. 



SCYLLIORHINID^. 

 2. Pristiurus melastomus (Rafines<iue). 



Galeus UTelastomus Rafinesque, Caratt. Anim. Sicil., 1810, p. 13. 



Nos. 566 to 574. Types of Scyll'mm melanostomum Bonaparte, 

 Fauna Italica, Pesci, Tomo III, vii, 1834, 89, PI. 131, fig. 3 

 (two figures). Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (No. 253). Dr. T. B. 

 Wilson. 



Mouth. — Moderately large, somewhat spacious and compressed. 

 The jaws aloue are furnished with teeth. Tongue a little free in 

 front, broad and flat, though somewhat rounded anteriorly. The 

 inside of the mouth is lined with smooth integument altogether 

 destitute of shagreen. 



Pharynx. — Spacious, elongate and compressed. Upon the walls 

 of the branchial arches are patches of fine shagreen, otherwise the 

 rest of the integument lining this region is perfectly smooth. 

 There are 5 gill-openings within the pharynx, which lead into as 

 many gill-pouches, and finally communicate externally by as many 

 gill- slits. Of the internal gill-openings, which are greater than 

 those which are external, the anterior is the largest, and they all 

 gradually diminish in length until the last, which is not more 

 than ^ the length of the first. The gill- pouches contain the gill- 

 filaments, and they are separated from each other by means of 

 inter-branchial septa. The gill-filaments are distributed in each 

 gill-pouch, so as to appear continuous, except in the last, where 

 they are only upon the anterior walls. They are of moderate 

 number, compressed, and adnate, except distally, to the walls of 

 the gill- pouches. There is a well-developed spiracle aperture 

 within the pharynx, anterior and superior to the first gill-opening. 

 It is furnished with pseudobranchiss. 



CEsophar/ns. — Short and somewhat constricted. The walls more 

 or less plicate. 



Stomach. — Spacious and bulky, and the walls greatly plicated, 

 except in the pyloric region. The tissues of this division of the 

 enteric canal are thicker than any other. 



Intestine. — The duodenum is very short, existing as a simple 

 tube greaiy constricted, until the presence of the colon is indicated 




330 PR0CEEDINC4S OF THE ACADEMY OF [^1^7, 



by the spiral valve. The diameter of the colon is much greater 

 than auy other division of the intestine, and posteriorly its boun- 

 daries are fixed by the terminus of the spiral valve, and the last 

 division of the intestine is formed. This is the rectum. It is of 

 more constricted dimensions than the colon, persisting as a short 

 simple tube to the cloaca, into which its contents are conveyed by 

 means of the rectal aperture. There is a rectal gland which is 

 confluent with the rectum. 



Liver. — Large and bulky, the left lobe greatly exceeding the 

 right in dimensions. 



Spleen. — Present in the usual position. 



Pancreas. — Developed. 



GALEID^. 



3. Galeus mustelus (Linnaeus). 



Squalus Mustelus Linnfeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 235. 



Nos. 605 to 608. Types of Madelus equestris Bonaparte, 

 Fauna Italica, Pesci, Tomo HI, vii, 1834, 43, PI. 132, fig. 2. 

 Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (^o. 254). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Moidh. — Moderately large, somewhat spacious and compressed. 



Sharp teeth upon the jaws. Tongue broad, flat and free in 

 front. Inside of the mouth roughened more or less with fine 

 shagreen. 



Pharyn-v. — Spacious, elongate and compressed. The walls of 

 the branchial arches are roughened and also the floor of the 

 pharynx. Gill-openings 5 within the pharynx, which lead into as 

 many gill-pouches, and finally communicate externally by as many 

 gill-slits. The internal gill-openings, in fact the entire branchial 

 system, resembles that of Pristiurus melastomus so far as ob- 

 served. The spiracle aperture within the pharynx, anterior and 

 superior to the first gill-opening. 



CEsophagus. — Short and constricted, with the walls plicate. 



Stomach. — Rather long, spacious and bulky. There are few 

 plications upon the walls of the cardiac region. Pyloric region 

 short. 



Intestijie. — Duodenum short. Colon large and very bulky, 

 especially its median portion, and furnished with a spiral valve. 

 The rectum short and simple, terminating in the cloaca. A rectal 

 gland is developed which is confluent with the rectum. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Liver. — Exceedingly large, occupyiug the greater part of the 

 abdominal cavity. Both lobes are equal. 

 4. Galeus mento (Cope). 



Mustelus mento Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XVII, 1877, p. 47. 



No. 21,104, Type of Mudehis merito Cope. Pacifi<; Ocean at 

 Pecasmayo, Peru. Coll. of Prof. James Orton, 1876-77. Prof. 

 E. D. Cope. 



Body elongate, slender, and tapering much after the first J)., 

 whei'e the greatest depth is located. Head large, with a flattened 

 snout which is pointed. The interorbital space is broad, broader 

 than the snout. Eye of moderate size, lateral, and its anterior 

 margin over the tip of the mandible. Posterior to the eye and 

 very near its posterior edge is the spiracle which is furnished with 

 small pseudobranchise. The nostrils are each furnished with a flap. 



The snout anterior to the mouth is greater than the space between 

 the external borders of the nostrils, and it is also greater than the 

 width between the external corners of the mouth. The teeth are 

 smooth, rounded and rhombic. Mouth furnished with a broad 

 flattened tongue, and there are also two entire buccal flaps at the 

 bases of the jaws. Gill-slits 5, about equal, and the last above 

 the base of the P. Origin of the first D. about over the middle 

 of the P. The fin itself is large, and its base is greater than its 

 height. It has a posterior projection, the tip of which seems to 

 me to be slightly in advance of the origin of the V. The origin 

 of the second D. is much in advance of that of the A., and its 

 posterior base is about over the last third of the base of the A. 

 The base of the second D. is much greater than the height of the 

 fin, and it is also furnished with a posterior projection which is 

 attenuated. The middle of the first D. is about midway between 

 the posterior root of P. and anterior root of the V. The P. very 

 broad, and flattened. The space between the inner edges of the 

 bases of the P. less than the width of the mouth. The V. broad 

 and blunt, and without inner posterior projections. The A. is very 

 small and with a sharp posterior projection. Caudal notched. 

 Lateral line present, its course somewhat deeurved posteriorly in 

 the region of the second D. 



The coloration is not entirely uniform as described by Prof. Cope. 

 The general color of the body is a leaden -brown, somewhat 

 darker dorsally. There are sevei-al bands of dark blackish-brown 




332 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



upon the upper anterior portion of the body. These are about 

 6 in number, and the two behind the eye, and over the anterior 

 gill-slits, are the most distinct. Below light brownish, with a pale 

 buff or ochraceous tinge. 



6. Galeorhinus galeus (Linnceus). 



Squalm Galeus Linnaeus, Sjst. Nat., Ed. X, 1753, p. 234. 



Nos. 617 to 620. Types of Galeus canis Bonaparte, Fauna 

 Italica, Pesci, Tomo HI, viii, 1834, 43, PI. 132, fig. 3. Italy. 

 Bonaparte Coll. (No. 248). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Mouth. — Moderate, spacious and compressed. Jaws furnished 

 with more or less flattened teeth. The tongue is flat, free ante- 

 riorly, and of a slightly triangular shape with the front margin 

 rounded obtusely. Patches of fine shagreen upon the roof of the 

 mouth and the tongue. 



Pharynx. — Of the usual spacious, elongate, and compressed 

 pattern. Patches of fine shagreen upon the walls of the branchial 

 arches. There are 5 gill-openings within the pharynx, leading in 

 turn into as many gill-pouches, and communicating externally by 

 as many gill-slits. The internal gill-openings are largest anteriorly, 

 and gradually diminish until the last, which is the shortest. Each 

 gill-pouch contains the usual complement of gill-filaments, the last 

 pouch with only h the number of the others and adnate to the 

 anterior walls. Spiracle developed within the pharynx anterior 

 and superior to first gill-opening. No pseudobranchioe. 



CEsophagus. — Short, spacious and walls plicated. 



Stomach. — Elongate and spacious, the walls sparingly plicate. 

 Pyloric region moderate. 



Intestine. — Duodenum short. Colon large and bulky, also fur- 

 nished with a spiral valve. Rectum short and simple, and opening 

 into a cloaca. Rectal gland present. 



Liver. — Large, occupying the greater portion of the abdominal 

 cavity. Both lobes about equal. 



Spleen. — Present in jn-oximity to the pyloric region. 



Pancreas. — Present. 



DALATIID^. 

 6. Dalatias licha (Bonnaterre). 



Squalus Licha Bonnaterre, Tabl. Eucycloped., Icbth., 1783, p. 12. 

 Nos. 478 and 479. Scymnorhinus Bonaparte, Cat. Meted. Peso. 

 Europ., 1846, p. 16 = Dalatias Rafinesque, Caratt. Anim. Sicil., 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



1810, p. 10 = Scynuius Ciivier, Beg ne Animal, II, 1817, p. 130, 

 Avhich is preoccupied in Insects. Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (No. 

 240). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



RHINOBATID^. 



7. Rhinobatis columnse (Bonaparte). 



Rhinohatus columnm Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, Pesci, Tomo III, 

 xiv, xvii, 1835-36, 86, PI. 152 (two figures) . 



Nos. 476 and 477. Types of Rhinohatus columnce Bonaparte. 

 Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (No. 228). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



There is also a dried specimen of this species. No. 16,920, 

 Bonaparte Coll. (No. 73). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



8. Platyrhinoides triseriatus (Jordan and Gilbert). 



Platyrhina triseriata Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mu?., 

 1880, p. 36. 



No. 528. Cotypical of Platyrhina triseriata Jordan and Gilbert. 



Santa Barbara, Cal. From the U. S. Fish Commission (No. 26, 



893). This is one of the several specimens described by Profs. 



Jordan and Gilbert, and they have indicated an adult male, taken 



at Santa Barbara, Cal., February 8, 1880, by A. Larco, an 



Italian fisherman, as the type. This specimen is in the collection 



of the U. S. National Museum. 



RAJID^. 



9. Raja punctata Risso. 



Raja Punctata Risso, Icbth. Nice, 1810, p. 12. 



Nos. 503 to 515. Types of Dasybatis asterias Bonaparte. 

 launa Italica, Pesci, Tomo III, xxix, 1840, 154, PI. 149, fig. 2. 

 Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (No. 230). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



J/ouf^.— Broad or compressed. Teeth only upon the jaws. 

 Tongue absent. Superior buccal flap bilobed and fringed. Infe- 

 rior buccal flap entire. The inside of the mouth is smooth, and 

 destitute of fine shagreen patches. 



Pharynx. — Of the usual spacious, compressed and elongate 

 pattern. The posterior portions of the roof and floor of the 

 pharynx, together with the inner surfaces of the branchial arches^ 

 with patches of fine shagreen. Gill-openings 5, the median the 

 longest, the second and fourth next in size, and the first and fifth 

 the smallest and about equal. The gill-openings lead into as many 

 gill-pouches, and finally communicate externally by as many gill- 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



slits. All the gill-pouches, except the last, and that has only its 

 anterior half, furnished with the usual continuous complement of 

 gill-filaments. These gill-filaments are adnate to the iuter- 

 Ijranchial septa for the greater part of their length, and are free 

 only at their distal extremities. Spiracle aperture well developed 

 within the pharynx, superior and anterior to the first gill-slit. It 

 is furnished with pseudobranchise. 



(E'iopharjus. — Short and constricted, the walls more or less 

 plicate. 



Stomach. — Moderate and rather bulky, the walls more or less 

 smooth though furnished with a few convoluted plications, espe- 

 cially in the lower cardiac region. Pyloric region moderate. 



Intestine. — Duodenum short. Colon large and bulky, furnished 

 with a spiral valve. Rectum a short simple tube finally merging 

 into the cloaca. Rectal gland developed and confluent with the 

 rectum. 



Liver. — Large and trilobed, though the median and left lobes 

 are rightly two divisions of one and the same lobe. Gall-bladder 

 developed. 



Spleen. — Developed. 



Pancreas. — Present. 



10. Raja miraletus Linnreus. 



Buja Miraletus Linuseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 231. 



Nos. 404 and 405. Types of Raja quadrimaculata Bonaparte, 

 Fauna Itallca, Pesci Tomo III, iii, 1833, 18, PI. 146, fig. 2. 

 Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (No 221). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Mouth. — Broad, flat and compressed. Teeth only upon the 

 jaws. No tongue. Superior buccal flap quadrilobate and fringed. 



Inferior buccal flap broadest medianly and also fringed. Inside 

 of the mouth smooth and destitute of shagreen, 



Pharyn.v. — Spacious, elongate and compressed. Patches of 

 shagreen are distributed upon the inner surfaces of the branchial 

 arches, the roof and the floor of the })harynx. The gill-openings 

 within the pharynx are 5, the median the longest, the second and 

 fourth next in size, and the first and fifth the smallest, and equal. 

 The gill-openings communicate next with as many gill-pouches and 

 finally open externally by as many gill-slits. There is a continuous 

 complement of gill-filaments within each gill -pouch, except the 

 last, and that is furnished only upon the anterior half. The gill- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PIIII^JiUELPHIA. 335 



filaments are adnate to the iuter-bi-aucliial septa for their greater 

 portion, only free proximally. The spiracle aperture is anterior 

 and superior to the first gill-opening, and it is furnished with small 

 pseudobranchire. 



CEioj)hagus. — Short and constricted, with wrinkled walls. 



Stomach. — Sac-like, moderately bulky, and the walls somewhat 

 plicate, especially in the lower cardiac region. 



Intestine. — Short duodenum which is simple. Colon spacious 

 and with a spiral valve. The rectum a short simple tube merging 

 finally into a cloaca. A rectal gland is developed which is con- 

 fluent with the rectum. 



Liver. — Large and trilobed. The median and left lobes are 

 proi^erly two divisions of the left lobe. Gall-bladder well 

 developed. 



Sjileen. — Kather large. 



Pancreas. — Present. 



This sjDecies preys upon small fishes, as remains of small Tele- 

 osts, one three inches or more iu length were taken from the gullet. 



11. Eaja radula De la Roche. 



Eaja radula De la Eoche, Ann. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, XIII, 1809, 

 p. 321. 



No. 389. Bails Bonaparte, Cat. Meted. Pesc. Euro})., 1846, p. 



12. Italy. Bonaparte Coli. (No. 233). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



12. Raja circularis (Conch). 



Raia Circularis Couch, Cornish Fauna, Part I, 1838, p. 53 ; pre- 

 liminary description in Loudon's Magazine of Natural History, 

 Ciiarlesworth, New Series, Vol. II, 1838, p. 71 (with fig.). 



No. 406. Type of Raja falsavela Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, 

 Pesci, Tomo III, xxvi, 1839, 136, PI. 148, fig. I. Italy. Bona- 

 parte Coll. (No. 221), Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



This specimen is almost dissolved and I identify it only from the 

 original label which is certainly referable to this species. 



13. Raja oxyrinchus Linnaus. 



liaia Oxyrinclius Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 231. 



Nos. 523 to 527. Laeviraja Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, Pesci, 

 Tomo III, XXV, 1839, 130, PI. 151, fig. 2. Italy. Bouai)arte 

 Coll. (No. 226). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



14. Raja stellulata (Jordan and Gilbert). 



Rata stellulata Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, p. 

 133. 



No. 414. Typical of Raia stellulata Jordan aud Gilbert. 

 Monterey. From the U. S. Fish Comm. (No. 26,975). 



This species was described from eight examples, of which this 

 is one, and were at that time said to have been in the U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. 



15. Psammobatis brevicaudatus Cope. 



Fsammobaiis brevicaudatus Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. See, XVII. 

 1877, p. 48. 



No. 21,261. Type of Psammobatis brevicaudatus Cope. Bay 



of Pecasmayo, Peru. Coll. of Prof. James Orton. Prof. E. D. 



Cope. 



NARCOBATID.^. 



16. Tetronaroe nobiliana (Bonaparte). 



Torpedo nohiliana Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, Pesci, Torno III, xii. 

 Ib35, 63, PI. 154 (two figures). 



Nos. 426 to 440, 461 to 470, and 16,948. Types of Torpedo 

 nobiliana Bonaparte. Italy. Bonapaite Coll. (Nos. 234 and 

 15). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



In these specimens the first D. is inserted almost over the poste- 

 rior edge of the V. 



Mouth. — Moderate, though not particularly spacious. Teeth 

 only upon the jaws. Tongue absent. Buccal flaps both entire, of 

 rather even width, and not papillose or fringed. Inside of the 

 mouth smooth and entirely destitute of shagreen. 



Pharynx. — Elongate and spacious and with apparently smooth 

 integument, except upon the inner surfaces of the branchial arches 

 which are asperous with fine shagreen. Gill-openings 5, the 

 median the largest, the second and fourth next in size, and the first 

 and fifth the smallest, and about equal. The gill-openings open 

 into 5 gill- pouches, which also communicate externally by 5 gill- 

 slits. The gill-pouches are separated from each other by the inter- 

 branchial septa, and each one contains a continuous complement of 

 gill-filaments, except the last, which has only its anterior half fur- 

 nislied. The gill-filaments are joined for most of their length to the 

 walls of the inter-branchial septa, though their distal extremity is 

 free for a short distance. Spiracle aperture anterior and superior 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



to the first gill-openiug from which it is separated by a consider- 

 able space. It is furnished with small pseudobranchiw, though in 

 moderate number. 



CEsophagm. — Constricted and somewhat short, the walls much 

 plicated. 



Stomach. — INIoderate and bulky, and the walls strongly plicated. 



Litesiine. — Duodenum the usual short simple tube merging into 

 the short and very bulky colon which is furnished with a spiral 

 valve. The rectum is a short simple tube, finally terminating in 

 the cloaca. A rectal gland is developed and confluent with the 

 rectum. 



Liver. — Large and bilobed, and with the left lobe the largest. 

 It is furnished with a gall-bladder. 



Spleen . — Presen t. 



Pancreas. — Present. 



DASYATID^. 

 17. Dasyatis brucco (Bonaparte). 



Trygon brucco Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, Pesci, Tomo III, VI, 1834, 

 34, PI. 151 (two figures). 



Nos. 378 and 379. Types of Trygon brucco Bonaparte. Italy. 

 Bonaparte Coll. (No. 218). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Mouth. — Moderate and broadly compressed. Teeth only upon 

 the jaws. Tongue absent. Superior l^uccal flap of almost uni- 

 form width and with a fringed edge. Inferior buccal flap entire, 

 except 5 or so filaments which are distributed at nearly equal dis- 

 tances. Integument of the inside of the mouth smooth and with- 

 out any shagreen. 



Pharyn.c. — Broad and compressed, and without any shagreen 

 patches, even upon the inner surfaces of the branchial arches. 

 Gill-openings 5, the median the largest, the second and fourth next 

 in size, and the first and fifth the smallest. They open into as 

 many gill-pouches and externally by as many gill-slits. Gill-fila- 

 ments in the usual continuous series in each gill-pouch, except in 

 the last, where they are only upon the anterior portion. They are 

 flattened or compressed, and aduate to the inter-branchial septa, 

 except distally for a very short portion, which is free. Aperture 

 of the spiracle superior and anterior to the first gill-opening. No 

 pseudobranchiffi appear to exist. 



(Esophagus. — Short and constricted with plicate walls. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Stomach. — Moderate aud not very bulky, though it may be very 

 distensible. Its walls are plicate. Pyloric region moderate. 



Intestine. — Duodenum a simple tube of short length. Colon 

 bulky and furnished with a spiral valve. Rectum a short simple 

 tube, merging into the cloaca. Rectal gland present. 



Liver. — Exceedingly large, consisting of two lobes, of which the 

 left is the largest. A gall-bladder is present. 



Spleen. — Large. 



Pancreas. — Present . 



This species preys upon small Teleosteans, as a number of scales 

 and other remains were taken from the pharynx of the example 

 described. 



18. Dasyatis violacea (Bonaparte). 



Trygon violacea Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, Pesci, Tomo III, /, 1833, 

 6, PI. 155 (two figures). 



Nos. 385 and 386. Types of Tri/gon violacea Bonaparte. Italy. 

 Bonaparte Coll. (No. 22*0). Dr. T. B, Wilson. 



Mouth. — Moderate and broadly compressed. Teeth only upon 

 the jaws. Tongue absent. 



Pharynx. — Broad aud compressed. Gill-openings 5 and like the 

 preceding. In fact, the pharynx in general is much like the 

 preceding. 



CEsophagus. — Short and constricted. 



Stomach. — Rather large and bulky, more so in the lower cardiac 

 region. Pyloric region developed. 



Intestine. — Duodenum short. Colon very large and bulky, and 

 furnished with a spiral valve. Rectum short and simple, empty- 

 ing its contents into the cloaca to which it is joined. Rectal gland 

 confluent with the rectum. 



Liver. — Large and bilobed, the left lobe the largest. Gall- 

 bladder present. 



Spleen. — Present. 



Pancreas. — Present. 



ACIPENSERID^. 



19. Acipenser naccarii Boiiai>artc. 



Aclpcnser ndccdrii^onap^xte, Fauua Italica, Pesci, Tomo HI, XVI, 

 XVII, 1836, 87, PI. 129, fig. 2. 



Nos. 624 and 625. Types of Acipenser naccarii Bonaparte. 



Mediterranean. Bonaparte Coll. (No. 2). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Mouth. — Moderately large and capacious. No asperities what- 

 ever upou the walls aud teeth absent. No buccal flaps. A broad 

 tongue, bluntly rounded aud hardly free in front. 



Pharynx. — Rather large, long and compressed, and also destitute 

 of asperities. The apertures of spiracles are placed superior and 

 anterior to the first gill-opening. The gill-openings are 5 in num- 

 ber, the first the largest and the others gradually decreasing in size 

 until the last, which is the smallest or shortest. They all commu- 

 nicate with the branchial chamber, forming 4 separate or free 

 branchial arches and one adnate to the posterior part of the 

 pharynx. The four free branchial arches are furnished with the 

 usual complement of gill-filaments, distributed along their outer 

 edges. No gill -filaments upou the last branchial arch. Upon the 

 inner anterior and posterior edges of the branchial arches are short, 

 fleshy, filamentous gill rakers. They are not very numerous, not 

 A- the length of the longest gill-filaments, and longest medianlv. 

 The branchial arches themselves seem rather broad. 



CEsophagus. — The enteric canal is now somewhat consiricted, 

 jDersisting posteriorly until under the posterior portion of the air- 

 bladder, when it turns and is produced anteriorly until posterior to 

 the pericardial cavity. Here it forms a somewhat exaggerated 

 condition known as the stomach. 



The oesophagus is connected by a large tube, though short, with 

 the air-bladder. This is placed a short distance from the pharynx 

 and upon the first or upper division of the oesophagus. 



Sto)iiach. — Rather small and apparently not very capacious or 

 distensible. The walls are considerably thickened, the tissue being 

 muscular. After this the pyloric region is marked by a large, 

 compressed and rounded sac, which is nearly as large as the stomach 

 itself. 



Intestine. — The duodenum persists first posteriorly, then runs 

 forward a short distance, after which the colon is formed. Its 

 walls are porous and not muscular. 



The colon is furnished with a spiral valve and no rectal gland is 

 present. The rectum is well developed. 



Liver. — Large, anterior and superior, and bilobed. 



Ryder ^ says under Acijyenser brevirostris Le Sueur: "How 

 much more extensive than the Delaware River its range may be I 



1 Bull. U. S, Fish Comm., VIII, 1888, p. 236. ~ 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



have no rneans of knowing, as I have found only one specimen, 

 besides the five obtained by myself at Delaware City, which can be 

 regarded as an authentic example of the species. This single 

 specimen is in the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, and consists of a dried and stuffed varnished skin 

 marked in white paint ' 84.' It agrees in every essential external 

 particular with my own alcoholic specimens, but no record of its his- 

 tory is accessible amongst the catalogues of the collections of that 

 institution ; all traces of the old manuscript catalogues of the 

 Bonaparte and the other old collections of fishes belonging to the 

 Academy's museum having been lost. I have, however, the strongest 

 suspicion that this specimen, which is evidently very old, judging 

 from its present condition, may be one of the originals of 

 Le Sueur's description published in the Transactions of the Ameri- 

 can Philosophical Society for 1818, though it does not correspond 

 in minor details. That it may possibly be one of the types of the 

 species seems to me not 'at all improbable, from the fact that 

 Le Sueur was also one of the early members of the Academy and 

 may have presented the specimen." 



I have not been able to find this specimen, and so far as I know 

 the only specimen from Le Sueur's collection at present in the 

 Academy is his Cyprinus maxUlingiia. Many of the typical speci- 

 mens he described were in the old Philadelphia Museum, and after 

 its dissolution they may have been destroyed in the conflagration of 

 P. T. Barnum, who purchased part of the natural history material. 

 For a short account of Peale's Museum see Stone, Auk, XVI, 

 1899, pp. 167 to 169. 



LEPISOSTEID^, 



20. Lepisosteus osseus (Linnaus). 



J^so£ osseus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 313. 



No. 16,971. Type of Lepldosteus crassus Cope, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 86. (Dried skin.) 



Cope says: " The type specimen was probably taken in brackish 

 water at Bombay Hook, near the mouth of the Delaware river." 

 In the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, a Lepisosteus, most 

 likely this specimen, is entered among the donations to the museum 

 on the 8th of March as " Gar Fish. Lepldosteus bison? Caught 

 in the Delaware river at Bombay Hook. Presented by INIr. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Andrew Vauderslice. " No. 14,405 is a specimen belonging to the 

 present species which was secured in the Delaware Bay many years 

 ago. It is labeled as having been obtained from Mr. Holbrook. 



No. 1^0,968. Type of Lepidosteus otarius Cope, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 86. (Dried skin.) 



This specimen was one of a collection of fishes said by Prof. 

 Cope,' to have been " brought from the Platte river, near Fort 

 Riley, by Dr. William A. Hammond." It is very evident, as 

 Profs. Jordan and Evermann have observed, " Fort Riley was on 

 the Kansas river." 



21. Lepisosteus platostomus Rafinesque. 



Lepisosteus platostomus Rafinesque, Ichth. Oh., 1820, p. 72. 



No. 16,958. Type of Cylindrostrem productus Cope, Proc. Acad. 

 Ned. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 86. San Antonio, Tex. (Dried 

 skin. ) Dr. A. L, Heermann. 



EXPLANATION TO PLATES XII, XIII, XIV, XV. 



Plate XII, fig. 1. — Acipenser naccarii Bonaparte. 



Fig. 2. — Pristinrus melastomus (Rafinesque). 



Plate XIII, fig. 3. — Galeus mustelus (Linnains). 



Fig. 4. — Gnleorhinus galeus (Linnteus). 



Plate XIV, fig. 5. — Raja punctata Risso. 



Fig. 6. — Dasyatis ciolacea (Bonaparte). 



Fig. 7. — Raja miraletus Linnaeus. 



Plate XV, fig. 8. — Tetronarce nobiliaua (Bonaparte). 



Fig. 9. — Dasyatis brucco (Bonaparte). 



The letters referring to the different parts of the viscera are the same in 

 all the figures : a. left lobe of liver ; h. right lolje of liver ; c. stomach ; 

 d. pyloric region ; t'. spleen ; /. small intestine ; g. colon ; h. rectal gland ; 

 i. rectum ; k. median Jobe of liver ; I. air bladder ; m. oesophagus. 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PMla., 1865, p. 85. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juue, 



June 4. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Japanese Marine and Fresh-water j\Iol- 

 lusca, " by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



Occurrence of Hyla andersonii at Clementon, jS\ J. — ]\Ir. Wit- 

 imer Stone exhibited a specimen of Hyla andersonii obtained at 

 Clementon, N. J., May 12, 1901, by Mr. Henry L. Viereck, and 

 presented by him to the Academy. 



The species was heretofore known only from five examples — the 

 type secured at Anderson, S. C. ; one oblained by Dr. Joseph 

 Leidy, at Jackson, N. J., July 1860 ; one from May's Landing, 

 N. j'., J. E. Peters, June 1, 1888, and two from Pleasant Milfs, 

 June 17, 1889, Dr. J, Percy Moore. 



Mr. Stone stated that, though probably of restricted distribu- 

 tion, the species wquld no doubt prove more abundant if specially 

 sought for, the comparative remoteness of the New Jersey barrens, 

 where most of the specimens were found, and the retiring habits 

 of the animal both tending to make its detection difficult. 



A few months since he had heard some tree frogs in a swamp 

 near Medfoi'd, N. J., whose call was different from that of any 

 other species with which he was acquainted, and he was inclined 

 to attribute it to the present form; diligent search, however, failed 

 to discover the animals. 



June 11. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " Zygeupolia litoralis, a New Heteronemertean, " by Caroline 

 Burling Thompson. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



"New Moll iisca from Japan and the Loo Choo [Islands," by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 



" A Peculiar Condition of^G^dogoniuni," by Ida A, Keller. 



" Crystalline and Crystalloidal Substances and their Relation 

 to Plant Structure," by Henry Kracmer. 



June 18. 

 Mr, Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



Papers under the following titles wei-e presented for publication : 

 " The Acrididse, Tettigonidte and Gryllidre Collected by Dr. A. 

 Donaldson Smith in Northeast Africa," by James A. G. Rehn. 



June 25. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Nasal Passages of the Florida Alliga- 

 tor," by A. M. Reese, was pi*esented for publication. 



Henry Kraemer was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



NEW LAND MOLLUSCA FROM JAPAN AND THE LOO CHOO ISLANDS. 

 BY HENEY A. FILSBRY. 



The collectors sent out by Mr. Hirase in the early mouths of this 

 year have already transmitted much new and valuable material, 

 in the study of which it is my 2)rivilege to assist. As Mr. Hirase 

 desires to supply such species as have been collected in copious 

 quantity to his correspondents in America and Europe, the prompt 

 publication of full descriptions of the novelties is necessary to 

 avoid the inconvenience attending the publicity of manuscript 

 names. The full report, with figures of the new forms, may best 

 be deferred until the results of the season's collecting can be pre- 

 sented in connected form. Most of the following species are from 

 Kunchan, the northern and least setiled province of the island 

 Okinawa, or Great Luchu (Loo Choo), and from Oshima, hitherto 

 unexplored for land moUusks. 

 Trochomorpha horiomphala (Pfr.). 



Specimens have been sent by Mr. Hirase (No. 631) from Kun- 

 chan, the northern province of Okinawa. They are more depressed 

 than Pfeiffer's type, but there is considerable variation in the 

 species in this respect. Trocliomorpha Fritzei Bttg. is a synonym. 

 No definite locality has been known hitherto for Pfeiffer's species, 

 which, moreover, has been lost, so to speak, in the group Plecto- 

 tropis. Il was doubtless this error of classification which led 

 Boettger to redescribe the shell as T. Fritzei. 

 Trochomorpha Gouldiana n. sp. 



Shell low-conic above, convex beneath, umbilicate, the umbilicus 

 one- fourth the diameter of the shell, broadly open to the apex ; of 

 a dark reddish brown color, glossy ; delicately striate, the strise cut 

 into minute granules by finer, very shallow spiral strise, both 

 above and below. Spire straightly conic, the apex slightly ob- 

 tuse. Whorls 0^, slowly widening, shghtly convex below, and 

 slightly concave above each suture; the last whorl acutely carinate, 

 concave above and below the keel; base convex in the middle, 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



the margin of the umbihcus abrupt but not keeled. Aperture small, 

 rhombic, the peristome simple, obtuse and whitish in fully adult 

 s^^ecimens. Alt. 5.3, diam. 12.7 mm 



Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 650). 



This species differs widely from T. cathcartce (Rve. ) and T. hori- 

 ompliala (Pfr. ), the two species known from the Loo Choo group, 

 in its higher spire and less spreading form. It is closely related 

 to T. Shermcmi (Pfr.) of Formosa, but differs in being smaller, 

 with straightly conic spire, the whorls concave above keel and 

 suture, and the aperture narrower, less rounded below. 



It is named in honor of Dr. A. A. Gould, who descril^ed the 

 Japanese shells collected by the Ringgold and Rogers Expedition. 

 I find two specimens in the collection of the Academy, labeled 

 " H. horiomphalo, Pfr. Oosima." 



Macrochlamys perfragilis n- ^'■ 



Shell perforate, depressed, excessively thin, transparent, pale 

 yellow, fragile. Surface brilliantly glossy, with faint gi'owth-lines 

 and almost obsolete, scarcely perceptible spiral striie. Spire low- 

 conic. Whorls 4^, somewhat convex, rather slowly widening, 

 separated by a narrowly margined suture, the last Avhorl much 

 wider, rounded at the periphery, rather convex beneath, narrowly 

 impressed around the perforation. Aperture very broadly lunale, 

 somewhat oblique, the lip fragile, columellar margin with a short, 

 triangular reflection partially concealing the perforation. 



Alt. 10, greater diam. 18, lesser 15 mm. 



Alt. 8^, greater diam. 10, lesser 14^ mm. 



Kunchau, Okinawa (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 637). 



A capacious, very fragile species, somewhat like M. Stearnsi Pils. 

 of China, and quite different from anything yet described from 

 Japan or the Loo Choo group. 



Macrochlamys Gudei n. sp. 



Shell minutely perforate, depressed-conoidal, thin, somewhat 

 translucent, corneous-brown. Surface glossy, sculptured with 

 weak growth-wrinkles, and on the base some coarse but shallow 

 and inconspicuous spiral sulci, obsolete in places. Spire conic; 

 whorls 6f , rather strongly convex, slowly widening, the last wider, 

 subangular at the periphery, the angle obvious in front, but dis- 

 appearing near the aperture. Base convex, sunken around the 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



perfoiation. Aperture liiuate, the lip simple and thiu, coluraellar 

 margin hardly thickened, dilated above, a triangular reflection 

 partially covering the perforation. 



Alt. 7, diam. 10 mm. 



Kunchan, Okinawa (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 635). 



This species has about the size, form and appearance of the 

 American Gastroclonta ligera (Say), though the whorls are more 

 convex and less striate above, and there is, of course, no callus 

 lining the basal part of the interior. The generic position assigned 

 is somewhat doubtful. 



It is named in honor of my friend G. K. Gude, who has pro- 

 duced several meritorious papers upon Japanese land snails. 



Kaliella borealis n. sp. 



Shell minutely perforate, pyramidal with slightly convex lateral 

 outlines and flattened base, thin, corneous-brown. Surface some- 

 what shining, sculptured above with regularly spaced, very delicate 

 whitish hair-like striae, the base showing fine spiral stride, and ex- 

 cept near the periphery, minutely bnt rather roughly pitted. 

 Whorls 7, nearly flat, the suture but slightly impressed, narrowly 

 margined; the last whorl acutely carinate. Apei'ture rhombic, the 

 pei'istome thin and fragile, columellar margin abruptly dilated and 

 reflexed partly over the perforation. 



Alt. 3f, diara. 3^ mm. 



Kayabe, Ojima, Hokkaido Island (]Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 641). 



A rather straightly pyramidal species, distinct from any of the 

 numerous species known to me from Hondo. 



Eulota (Euhadra) oshimae n. sp. 



Shell globose-subdepressed, umbilicate, rather thin but solid, of 

 a rich reddish chestnut color, darker within the umbilicus and on 

 the back of the lip, and with a very dark chestnut, almost black 

 band just above the periphery, bordered above and below with 

 greenish -yellow bauds; the convexity of the base sometimes fading 

 to the same pale tint. Surface rather glossy, but in part dull, 

 sculptured with slight growth-striie only ; several inner whorls, 

 after the apical one, minutely wrinkled and marked with points in 

 oblique lines. Spire conic, moi'e or less elevated. Whorls varying 

 from 6;J in large to 5f in small specimens, quite convex, slowly 

 widening, the last rounded at tlie periphery, very slightly and 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA. 347 



slowly desceuding in front, convex beneath. Aperture broadly 

 lunate, slightly oblique, bluish and showing the band inside ; peris- 

 tome expanded and rather narrowly reflexed, thickened within, 

 purple, with 'the extreme edge pale ; columellar margin broadly 

 dilated, very dark, half covering the umbilicus. 



Alt. 35, diam. 43 mm. 



Alt. 29, diam. 37 mm. 



Alt. 26, diam. 33 mm. 



Alt. 25, diam. 32 mm. 



Alt. 20*, diam. 27 mm. 



Alt. 19|, diam. 26 mm. 



Oshimaf (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 357). 



This magnificent species is related to both E. callginosa^ and E. 

 merccdoria,^ but is more globose than either, with more convex 

 whorls. It differs conspicuously from E. caliginosa in having the 

 base of the shell and aperture rounded, not conspicuously flattened, 

 as they are in caliginosa. The basal lip, moreover, is not sinuous. 

 E. oshimce resembles E. mercatoria in the form of the aperture, 

 but differs in being more globose, with a larger umbilicus in shells 

 of the same size, and the whorls are more convex. 



The variation in size, as shown by the above measurements, is 

 extraordinary, but there seems to be a complete series of interme- 

 diate specimens. The smaller shells are those most resembhng E. 

 mercatoria. E. oshimce is thus related to species of Okinawa, and 

 not to the luchuana group of Japan proper. 



Chlorites euoharistus n. sp. 



Shell umbilicate, thin, concave above, of a rich, dark chestnut 

 color. Densely hairy, the hairs long, regularly ari'anged in 

 diagonal lines descending forwardly and backward, the surface 

 between them minutely papillose. Whorls 4i, the earlier ones 

 forming a rather deeply sunken spire, the last third of the last 

 whorl deeply descending to the periphery, the whorl preceding this 

 coiled in a plane. The first whorl is glossy and smooth; the last 

 whorl widens toward the aperture, and is obscurely gibbous and 

 then contracted behind the lip; the base convex, having a small 

 excavation behind the basal lip, producing a low prominence just 

 within the basal margin of the aperture. Aperture very oblique, 



1 Catal. Marine Moll. Japan, PL 10, figs. 1-3, 6. 

 ^ Ibid., fie. 5. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



very broadly lunate; peristome rather narrowly reflexed, purple, 

 the margins somewhat approaching, connected across the parietal 

 wall by a slender, raised cord. 



Alt. 9, greater diam. 19, lesser 15^ mm. 



Alt. 9^, greater diam. 18, lesser 15 mm. 



-^'^- '^h greater diam. 15, lesser 12 mm. (small form). 



Oshima, (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 354). 



This fine species has the sunken spire of the typical forms of the 

 genus from the Moluccas, etc. It is a larger and much finer species 

 than the two hitherto described from Japan, C. oscitam (jNIartens) 

 and C. fragilu Gude, neither of which has the well-developed per- 

 istome of C. eucharistus. Three of the specimens sent are of 

 about the same size, but another is conspicuously smaller, with the 

 spire perceptibly more sunken, and the low "tooth" within the 

 basal margin of the peristome is subobsolete. 



Suocinea Hirasei n- sp. 



A species grouping with S. pfeifferi of Europe and S. return of 

 America. Elongate, fragile, reddish or corneous, amber-colored, 

 composed of 2\ very rai)idly enlarging whorls, the last one very 

 large, roughened by rather coarse growth-wrinkles. Aperture long- 

 ovate, somewhat eifuse below, the margins regularly arcuate. 



Length 16, diam. 9, longest axis of aperture 13, width Qh mm. 



Tsuchiura, Hitachi, in eastern Hondo (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 

 642). 



Both of the Succineas prexaously known from Japan, S. lauta 

 Gld. and S. Jiortlcola Reinh. , belong to the group of species having 

 very convex whorls, like S. putris or S. obliqua. This new one 

 goes with the lengthened species, and is very like S. retiisa Lea 

 (ovalis Gld.), but the Japanese form is rather less efiuse than the 

 American. 



Cyclophorus Hirasei n. sp. 



Shell narrowly umbilicate, turbinate, with elevated spire, solid ; 

 greenish yellow', with a rather wide black belt just below the peri- 

 phery, which is marked with a pale belt, and several dark lines 

 and bands beneath, more or less interrupted at short intervals; the 

 upper surface marked with numerous dark bands, interrupted 

 obliquely or in zigzag fashion; the bands retaining their distinct- 

 ness or more or less confluent into zigzag stripes. "Whorls 5i to 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



nearly 6, veiy convex, the last tlattened below the suture, else- 

 where well rounded. Aperture circular, somewhat oblique, bluish 

 and showiui;^ the bands inside; peristome rather narrowly reflexed, 

 its face roundetl, faintly red-tinted or bright red, continued in a 

 callus across the very short parietal wall; the columellar margin 

 overhanging and partially concealing the small umbilicus. 



Alt. 30, diam. 32 mm. ; antero-posterior diameter of aperture 

 21, width 19| mm. 



Alt. 29, diam. 31 mm. ; antero-posterior diameter of aj^erture 

 20i, width 19 mm. 



Operculum circular, multispiral, concave externally; diam. 

 15^ mm. 



Oshima, (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 644). 



Related to G. jourdyi Mori., fuUjuratus Pfr. , courbeti Anc. , and 

 their allies, species of Tonquin and Burma. It is remarkable for 

 its elevated spire and brilliant peristome. 

 Pupinella oshimae n. sp. 



Shell pupiform, dark purplish brown under a papery whitish outer 

 color, apparently the result of weathering, densely and finely striate 

 when unworn. Whorls 6, slightly convex, the first four forming 

 a conic spire, the penultimate and last whorls of about equal diam- 

 eter ; last whorl somewhat produced forward below. Aperture 

 vertical, the opening small and circular ; peristome broadly reflexed, 

 white or nearly so, very heavily thickened on the face, produced 

 forward in a flange around the opening, interrupted by minute 

 channels at the base of the columella and posterior end of the lip, 

 these channels expanding funnel-like outwardly; parietal callus 

 very strong at its right end, emitting a branch which rises high 

 above the termination of the outer lip. 



Length 10, diam. 4.8 mm.; diam. of aperture, inside of jjeris- 

 tome, 2.2 mm. 



Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 645). 



This species difiers strongly from F. rufa Sowb. and its slightly 

 differentiated local forms fruhstorferi and tsiishimana, in the rela- 

 tively enormous development of the peristome, reducing the open- 

 ing of the aperture; in the vertical, not oblique plane of the aper- 

 ture, and especially in having the tongue of the parietal callus 

 defining the posterior canal, very much longer, rising high above 

 the termination of the outer lip. The latter is abruptly truncated 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



on a level with the suture, not produced upward, as iu the otner 

 species mentioned. The upper foramen of the lip shows from in 

 front as a slit, not an orifice, as in P. rufa. 



P. Jruhdorjerl and tnishimcuia, from Iki Island and Tsushima 

 respectively, are hardly distinguishable from rufa. With a series 

 of P. rufa before me from Kobe, Awaji, Hyuga province in 

 Kiushiu, and other localities, and specimens of fruhdorferi and 

 tsushimana Mlldtf. received from Fruhstofer, 1 am unable to find 

 any differential characters for Dr. von Mollendorft''s supposed spe- 

 cies and subspecies except their distribution. The deeply dissected 

 western coast of Kiushiu indicates subsidence of an area long ex- 

 posed to denudation, and points to the recent isolation of Tsushima 

 and neighboring islands. Their fauna has much in common with 

 Kiushiu, and, so far as we now know, but few special species 

 strongly differentiated from those of the greater island. 



DIPLOM M ATINID^. 



The Japanese Dlplommatinidce fall into three groups : D. 

 pusilla V. Mart, and its var. omiensis Pils. are sinistral forms, 

 pusilla being placed in the genus Palaina, subgenus Cylin- 

 dropalaina by Kobelt and Mollendorfff but their genera Palaina 

 and Diplommat'ma seem to stand in need of some rearrangement, 

 judging by the lists of species. 



All ot the other Japanese species apparently belong to the sec- 

 tion Sinicn of the genus Dlplommatlna, with the single exception 

 of D. turris, which diftei's strongly from all other known Japanese 

 species. 



Diplommatina turris n. sp. 



Shell minute, tapering-turreted, whitish; the last two whorls of 

 about equal diameter, those above slowly tapering. AVhorls 7^ 

 to 8, extremely convex, the first two smooth, the apex obtuse; the 

 last whorl but slightly ascending iu front. Surface regularly sculp- 

 tured with rather widely spaced thread-like rib-striaj. Aperture 

 subcircular, the columellar tooth hardly visible from in front, but 

 seen in an obli(|ue view in the aperture to be moderately strong; 

 peristome narrowly expanded, its inner edge built forward beyond 



Catalog dcr gegenwartig lebencl hekannten Pneumonopomen, p. 53. 




1901. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



the expansion; continued in an adnate callus across the parietal 

 wall. Palatal fold short, to the left of the parietal callus. 



Length 2.2, diam. 0.9 mm. 



Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. G48). 



This species is not related to any other form known from Japan 

 or the Loo Choo group. The t arreted shape, extremely convex 

 whorls, and regular spaced rib-strire are its prominent features. 



Diplommatina saginata n. sp. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, shortly oblong-conic, obese, amber- 

 colored or white, densely sculptured with delicate thread-like rib- 

 strise, about 25 in the space of a millimeter on the penultimate 

 whorl, slightly wider apart on the earlier whorls; no spiral stria- 

 tion. Penultimate whorl widest, those above forming a regularly 

 conic spire. Whorls Q^, the first obtuse and smooth; last whorl 

 much smaller than the penultimate, strongly ascending in front. 

 Aperture subcircular; columellar tooth strong, as usual. Peris- 

 tome narrowly reflexeil, thickened on the face, continuous in a 

 delicate cord across the parietal margin. Palatal fold above the 

 columella, rather long. 



Length 2,3, diam. 1.2 mm. 



Nase, Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 6495) ; also Furuniga, 

 Oshima (No. 649«). 



A smaller, shorter species than D. Insularam of Kunchau, 

 Okinawa, or D. cassa of Hondo. In one specimen tlie outer lip 

 is duplicate, in the others merely thickened. The upper margin of 

 the peristome rises nearly to the preceding suture. A specimen 

 from Furuniya measures, length 2.24, diam. 1.28 mm. 



Diplommatina osliimae n. sp. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, bright red -amber colored, the penulti- 

 mate whorl widest, those above regularly tapering, forming a long, 

 <dtenuated spire. AYhorLs 7, convex, the first two or three dark 

 red, smooth, the next two having conspicuous thread-like, wide- 

 sjMced riblets, the last two whorls densely sculptured with low, more 

 delicate rib-striie; the last whorl somewhat contracted, ascending 

 in front, gibbous on the base behind the columellar lip. Aperture 

 circular, the peristome reflexed, not doubled, its inner edge a httle 

 thickened and built forward, scarcely continuous, the parietal callus 




352 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



being but slightly developed. Columellar tooth strong, as usual. 

 Palatal fold wanting. 



Length 3, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 651). 



This species has a longer, more attenuated spire than D. 

 luchuana, and it differs from that and all other described Japanese 

 species in the widely spaced riblets of the spire. Moreover, no 

 palatal fold is seen through the front of the whorl, and upon open- 

 ing a specimen I found it wanting. 



Diplommatina luchuana n. sp. 



Shell small, dextral, oblong-conic, brown, finely striate, the strife 

 much less strong than in other described species of Japan or the 

 Loo Choo Islands. Whorls 6, convex, the penultimate and last 

 of about equal diameter, those above regularly tapering, forming 

 a long, conic spire. Last whorl ascending to the aperture, con- 

 stricted at its beginning in front. Aperture somewhat longer than 

 wide, the left margin straightened ; peristome continuous, the outer 

 lip reflexed, duplicate by a narrow crest close behind it; columellar 

 tooth strong; palatal fold very short. Length 2.3, diam. 

 1.15 mm. 



Province of Kunchan, Okinawa (Loo Choo) Island (Mr. Y. 

 Hirase, No. 629). 



Decidedly conic above, as in the larger D. Kobelti Ehrm. The 

 striatiou is weaker than in other Japanese species of the group, 

 none of which, except D. Kobelti, have so tapering a spire. The 

 palatal fold is shorter than in the other species of the region. The 

 surface seems to have no sj^iral stri:^ between the longitudinal strioe. 

 Diplommatina septentrionalis n. sp. 



Shell dextral, corneous or pale brown, cylindric-oblong, finely 

 rib-striate, about 12 striie in the space of a millimeter on the penul- 

 timate whorl, the stripe more Avidely spaced on the last whorl ; 

 under a high magnification showing excessively minute, close, 

 creoulated spiral striae between the rib-strise. Whorls nearly 6^, 

 convex, the first three forming a short terminal cone, the others 

 wide, last whorl ascending to the aperture. Aperture subcircular, 

 the lip continuous, reflexed, duplicate by a narrow crest close behind 

 it; columellar tooth moderately sti'ong; palatal fold rather long. 

 Length 2.9, diam. 1.5G mm. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Kayabe, prov. Ojima, Hokkaido Island (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 

 639). 



This is one of the northernmost known species of the genus. It 

 is somewhat larger than D. uzenensis, the rib-striie are more widely- 

 spaced and under a high power there are fine, dense, spiral strire, 

 wanting in D. uzenensis. D. cassa is somewhat more cylindric. 

 with finer striation. 



D. pusilla Mart, also occurs at Kayabe, Ojima, whence speci- 

 mens have been sent by Mr. Hirase. They measure 2.1 mm. long, 

 1 wide, and have about 11 or 12 i-iblets in the space of a millimeter, 

 measured on the last or penultimate whorls. The surface between 

 the riblets has excessively fine spiral strire, and I find that these 

 are present in var. omiensis, as well as in what I take to be typical 

 D. pnsilla, although I overlooked them on the occasion of a former 

 examination.* I cannot see that the specimens from Hokkaido 

 Island differ from those of middle Hondo. 



* These Proceedings for 1900, p. 382. 



23 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTORY OF PLANTS. No. XV. 



by thomas meehan. 



The Bending of Mature AYood in Trees. 



At the meeting of the American Association for the Advance- 

 ment of Science held in Philadelphia in 1884, Prof. Charles E. 

 Bessey exhibited a drawing of the trunk of a Balsam Fir that had 

 blown over and had bent in such a manner that the curvature could 

 only have occurred after the trunk had become several years old. 

 The prevalent impression is that trees and branches grow into their 

 various forms; or, as the popular phrase expresses it, " as the twig 

 is bent the tree's inclined." Ko one was prepared to believe that 

 the tree, once inclined, could at any time thereafter change its 

 form. There was nothing in the text-books to indicate the possi- 

 bility of such phenomena. Prof. Bessey 's specimen was looked 

 upon as interesting and curious, but it has had no influence in 

 our text-book teachings. Up to the present time we are taught 

 to look to light, gravitation, tension, turgescence, or some one or 

 another of the surrounding conditions to account for the direc- 

 tion which stems or branches assume — the independent energy 

 developed from plant life itself receiving but slight recognition, 

 probably because its exact nature is so far incomprehensible. 

 Prof. Bessey' s experience seemed to throw more light on some 

 of my own observations. In the Proceedhujs of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for 1866, p. 401, appears 

 my paper " On the Consumption of Force by Plants in Over 

 coming Gravitation," in which is clearly shown that life-energy, 

 sustained by nutrition, was an enormous power in the life- 

 history of the plant. I was encouraged to make actual experi- 

 ments and wide observations, that have extended from that time 

 till now, only to find the surprising fact that the recurving and 

 incurving of mature growth is among the commonest of phenomena 

 in the vegetable world. Before proceeding to prepare this paper, 

 I inquired of Prof. Bessey if he had investigated the matter fur- 

 ther, and received the following interesting letter: 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



"Lincoln, Neb., Dec. 29, 1900. 



''My Dear Professor Meehan .-—In regard to the bending of the 

 mature internodes of conifers, I may say that it was in 1884 that I 

 made the lirst pubhc statement before the Botanical Chib of the 

 A. A. A. S., or possibly before the Biological Section itself. It was 

 to the effect that in the spring of the year 1882 (exactly April 8) a 

 tornado crossed the campus of the Agricultural College at Ames, 

 la , aud among other things which it did, it partly uprooted a 

 number of conifers, bending them over almost to the ground in 

 some cases. After a while I noticed that these trees were bending 

 upward, and that the bending was not confined to the youngest 

 internodes, but that the older internodes were more or less bent 

 also. I noticed this particularly in the case of some Balsam Fir 

 trees, Abies balsamea, in which the bending extended several years 

 back of the time when the trees were first partly uprooted. 



" This year (.in August) I had the opportunity of noticing the 

 same thing in connection with the Foxtail Pine, Pinus fiexilis 

 var. Marruyana, in the Yellowstone Park A slender tree had 

 been bent to the ground by the fall of a larger tree, and yet the 

 smaller tree had been able to bend a considerable portion of its 

 top so as to bring it approximately erect. A careful examination 

 of the larger tree in regard to the time of its fall made it certain 

 that several of the mature internodes of the smaller tree bent 

 after reaching the horizontal position. I have seen something 

 like this in case of the destruction of the central * leader ' of the 

 Austrian Pines on the University campus, during the past ten or 

 twelve years, but these cases are not as striiiing as those cited 

 above. 



" I am glad that you are to bring this out, as I know that it 

 will be so done that there will be no doul)t at all in regard to it. 

 " I am very truly, etc., 



"Charles E. Bessey." 



My own work began by inclining an Arbor Vita, Thuja occiden- 

 talis, to an angle of about 45°. It was about eight feet high and 

 perfectly straight. About the middle of May the following year 

 the apex began to curve upwardly. The process continued for 

 about three weeks, by which time the curving had extended down 

 to some three feet, reaching the five-year-old wood of the main 

 stem. In the course of this process the upper portion, that had 

 commenced the incurving motion, would again become erect, so 

 that the curve would only occupy a few feet in extent in the region 

 of the three to five-year-old wood. The upper or erect portion 

 would, however, be considerably out of line with the perpendicular 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



of the tree's original growth from the grouud. The following 

 year the incurve extenrled down to the six or seven-year wood, 

 and the upper portion recurved so that it might again assume a 

 perpendicular position. No further curving occurred in after 

 years. The tree is yec one of the curiosities on my grounds. 



Following this was an experiment with a Lawsou Cypress, 

 Cupressm Laiosoniana. The results were similar, the incurving 

 being just after active growth in spring. 



So far we have the lesson from direct experiment. But when 

 we look around us we see the bending power abundantly illus- 

 trated. The Galena Weeping Elm, a form of Ulmus Americana, 

 grafted on stems eight or ten feet high, starts from the first with 

 cord-like pendent branches reaching to the grouud. But I have 

 trees between thirty and forty years old that are nearly as many 

 feet high. I have never seen an erect one-year-old branch on the 

 trees. At the end of every branch there is pendent a growth of 

 two or three years. For several yeax's I have watched a leading 

 branch that is straight and nearly horizontal, now over twenty feet 

 in length ; a pendent growth of three years is always at its termi- 

 nus. I find that in June the third year's growth straightens, the 

 new growth still forming a continuous three-year bend. The Weep- 

 ing Willow will occasionally make a few vigorous straight stems to 

 aid in the upward growth, but the majority of the curved 

 branches take to straightening after two or three years. The 

 Hemlock Spruce, Abies canadensis, curves its new growth, which 

 continues curved till the next season, when it rapidly becomes 

 erect, the new growth taking the curve of the previous year. 



The most interesting features of the study relate to the incurv- 

 ing and recurving of very old branches. In many trees there is 

 no evidence of a tendency to bend till after the fifth year. For 

 some ten years after this, or in ten- or fifteen-year-old wood, the 

 phenomena is common. It may often be seen in the Tulip Poplar, 

 Liriodendron tulipifera, the White Ash, Fraxinu-'^ Americana, 

 the Pear tree, and many others. One of the best illustrations is 

 afforded by the Hoi'se Chestnut, jKicxdus Hippocastamim. The 

 branches all keep at an acute angle till the tree reaches an age of 

 about twenty-five years. Then the ten-year-old branches begin to 

 droop from near the basal region at the trunk. They spend several 

 years in curving downward, and then make an incurve between 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



the recurve and the apex. This method of first becoming a little 

 more horizoutal, then recurving near the base and incurving 

 toward the apex is quite common among coniferous trees. The 

 actual bending of the main trunk, which Prof. Bessey and myself 

 ascertained by actual observation in three species of conifera^, may 

 have another illustration in a specimen of the Himalayan Pine, 

 Pimis excelsa, on the estate of Caspar Heft in Germantowu. It is 

 about fifty years old, and probably among the earliest introduced 

 to American gardens. The heavy trunk is curved from near the 

 ground to about twenty feet upwardly. The verticels of branches 

 in this species of Pine extend all around the trunk in a regular 

 horizontal line. In the curved portion of this tree the straight 

 branches on one side are directed above the horizontal line, ou the 

 other side they point below. There can be no other explanation 

 of this than that the tree blew over when about twenty-five feet 

 high, and that the whole of this early twenty-five-year growth had 

 been made to curve. 



Most species of trees will have some of their mature branches 

 incurve or recurve at various ages; and this curving is often char- 

 acteristic of the species. The list is made up from specimens 

 growing on my own property, with the exception of a few left of 

 the original forest, all planted by myself within the past forty 

 years: 



Magnolia. 



In 31. tripetela, M. Fraseri, M. conspicua and M. macrophylla I 

 observe no disposition to curve at any age. But M. acuminata 

 sends out its upper branches at an acute angle, with the apices 

 incurved. After about five years they commence to descend bv 

 a curve near the base. These curves of the lower branches increase 

 in width, until finally the upper portions of the branches again 

 incurve, as noted in many coniferse, especially of the Spruce 

 family. Plate XVI represents a thirty-five-year-old tree. 



Tilia. 



The Lindens : No curving observed in T. Europcea, but in 

 mature trees of T. Americana they are common and striking. 



Ilex. 



I have no large specimens of /. Aquifoliicm. In bushy speci- 

 mens of I. opaea no curving noticed ; but where the plant has 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



assumed a tree-form descent commences in the five-year-old 

 branches, and they finally curve and recurve as in the Spruces. 



Koelreateria. 



This seems naturally tortuous ; but the branches, once formed, 

 seem unchangeable. 



^sculus. 



A. Hippocastanum recurves remarkably, even in Ijranches of 

 considerable age. 

 Acer. 



The Maple family : A. dasycarpum, the Silver Maple, is remark- 

 able for its eccentricity as regards the curving of its branches. 

 One form known in gardens as " Wier's Cut-leaved," has cord- 

 like pendulous branches, some of which straighten eventually and 

 ascend. The leading branches are mostly erect, and aid in the 

 heightening of the tree. Some individuals of the ordinary trees 

 recurve branches in great numbers when these are several years 

 old ; other specimens show no recurving of individual branches. 

 The recurving of weaker branches is a common feature. A. 

 saccharinum, the common Sugar Maple, seldom recurves the larger 

 branches; but the weaker ones fi'equently begin to curve when two 

 or three years old, and continue to such an extent as often to 

 form almost a circle. The species can be recognized at long dis- 

 tances by this character. In A. rubrvm, the Red Maple, I see no 

 disposition to curve; in A. platanoides none; but it occurs to a 

 small extent in A. Pseudo-Platanus. A. macrophyUum, the Oregon 

 Maple, has the branches at a rather acute angle, with an incurved 

 apex. This character seems unchangeable, and my thirty-year- 

 old tree has a broomy character. A. camptestre, A. latum show 

 no curving characters. 

 Negundo. 



In the Ash-leaved Maple I observed no tendency to curve in 

 either the Atlantic or Pacific coast species. 



Sophora. 



Neither in this nor in Rohlnia, Gleditschia nor any leguminose 

 plant have I noted any disposition to curve mature branches. 



Pyrus. 



In the rosaceous family the Pear is characteristic in recurving its 

 mature branches as it advances in life. In mv earlier vears the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. . 359 



familiar archipg was attributed to the weight of fruit. This I have 

 found erroneous. The curving of the large branches does not 

 begin until the tree has reached nearly the height it is (o eventually 

 become. It is not seen on younger trees, no matter how much 

 fruit they may have to bear. This is also true of the Apple. The 

 Cherry does not curve. The Cerasus serotina, Wild Cherry, shows 

 no disposition to curve, but in old specimens of C. Padm the 

 maturer lower branches often curve considerably. In Cratcegus, 

 Amelanchier, and allies no tendency is observable. 



Cornus. 



Old bushes of Cornus Mas have the branches curved considerably 

 with age. Xyssa, the Sour or Black Gum, starts horizontally from 

 the first. 



Diospyros. 



Diospyros Virginiana, the Persimmon, has its branches more or 

 less tortuous at an early stage, but in about ten years the laterals 

 become more horizontal, and the ends of the branches curve up 

 from the fifth year's growth. 



Halesia. 



In H. tetrajitera and H. diptera there is no apparent curving, 

 but H. Meehani, a remarkable seedling sport in my garden from 

 H. tetraptera, has erect branches that recurve remarkably when a 

 few years old, giving the ti-ee a curious wind-swept appearance. 



Catalpa. 



Catalpa hignonioides and C. speeiosa, old trees, give the impression 

 of curvature with age, but I have not been able to decide this to 

 my satisfaction. The tortuosity may be due to early growth 

 alone. 



Laurus. 



The branchlets of Laurus Sassafras start out in early life at an 

 angle of about 45°, but after about five years assume a horizontal 

 direction. The succeeding branch system is tortuous, but seldom 

 becomes decumbent. 



Morus. 



The Mulberry family shows little disposition to depart from the 

 original plan of divergence. In some specimens of Morus alba I 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



have seen 'some of the lower branches curved, which must have 

 occurred late in life, but this seems exceptional. 



Flatanus. 



In P. occidentalis I have found no sign of adult curving, but in 

 P. 07'ienkdis, the European species, the laterals change from 

 angular divergence to horizontal positions, and even recurving in 

 many cases. 



Juglans. 



The Walnut family, I believe, retain their early character 

 through life, though the English Walnut has a tortuous appear- 

 ance. 

 Quercus- 



It is in QuevcHs, or the Oak family, Ihat we find the most inter- 

 est, as the numerous species afford material for comparison. The 

 angular divergence and ultimate positions seem so characteristic 

 that we may have a reasonable assurance of the species when a 

 tree is seen from a rapidly passing railroad train. Qiiercus pa/us- 

 iris, the Pin Oak, is a good illustration of what occurs in many 

 species (Plate XVII). 



The upper branches grow at an acute angle, but after about 

 five years proceed to decline, the point of departure being at the 

 base, near the main trunk. By fifteen years they have l^ecome 

 horizontal, and continue declining until the divergence again 

 reaches an acute angle. Much the same procedure marks Quercus 

 Phellos, the Willow Oak. Quercus tindoria, the Black Oak, has the 

 lateral brauches horizontal at an early age, but I have never found 

 any go lower. This is true of the Quercus coccinea, the Scarlet 

 Oak, though to a less degree (Plate XVII), Quercus bicolor, the 

 Swamp White Oak, departs from its angular position toward the 

 horizontal when about ten years old, but never gets below the hori- 

 zontal line. Quercus macrocarpa (the Burr Oak), Q. hjrata (the 

 Over-cup), Q. Prinus (the Kock Chestnut), Q. rubra (the Red), I 

 have not found to vary from the original framework. This also 

 seems true of the European Quercus Robur, Q. Cerris (the Turkey 

 Oak), and of the Japan Q. dentata. Q. alba, with iis frame of 

 branchlets almost as huge as its trank, has been a puzzle to me. I 

 am inclined to believe that the angular divergence of the lateral 

 branches has not changed from the original plan. It imiy be noted 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



that most species of Oak, when growing and in nursery rows, pro- 

 duce some weak side branches that soon become horizontal and 

 finally curve. 



Liquidambar. 



The Sweet Gum, Liquidambar styraciflua, seems never to change 

 the angular divergence of its laterals so far as a few inches from 

 the base is concerned, but at a little beyond this they commence to 

 decline at about ten years old in much the same manner as the Pin 

 Oak, but eventually they take an upward bend, so that there is a 

 curving and incurving feature as in the Norway Spruce. 



Fraxinus. 



The Ashes, as a rule, retain their original plan through life, but 

 F, Americana and F. sambucifolia, the 'White Ash and the Black, 

 become very much curved in the older branches. 



Salix. 



In the Willow family I have noted no departures from the original 

 plan; the weeping variety of Salix Japonica, the well-known 

 "Weeping Willow, excepted, as already noted. 



TJlmus. 



There seems to be some tendency in young plants of U. racemosa, 

 the Thomas Elm, to have the weaker brauchlets recurve; but I have 

 no mature specimen. 



Coniferse. 



In the Cypresses, Junipei's and some Pines I have found no evi- 

 dence of the curving of mature branches, but in the Pines, Firs and , 

 Spruces the fact is self-evident. The upper series of about ten 

 years of branching take an acute angle, then a horizontal direc- 

 tion at the base, which is eventually recurved, and finally an 

 incurving occurs toward the younger portion of the branches. In 

 many Pines — Pinus pungens, for instance — when the natural height 

 is about reached, the upper brauchlets become horizontal. The 

 top of the tree is often as flat as if sheared to make a plane sur- 

 face. Judging by pictures of European scenery Pinus Pinea has 

 this habit in the Old World. 



Among monocotyledons, I have noted in the South specimens of 

 Chamcerops Palmetto, that had been evidently turned aside some- 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



what in their earher growth, that had curved the maiu stem iu the 

 effort to secure agaia the upright position. 



The facts adduced reveal to us a stupendous power iu plant life, 

 of which biologists hitherto have taken little heed. True we have 

 had casual noles of mushrooms lifting heavy paving stoces in a 

 single night ; of the roots of trees throwing down stone walls and 

 cleaving dense rocks in wedge-like fashion. I have myself re- 

 corded a case where a large tree growing on a rock had by accre- 

 tions below lifted the whole of its immense weight of trunk and 

 branches, so that it did seem that the trunk had elongated and 

 that a side branch had been carried several inches alcove its orig- 

 inal distance from the ground, but the great significance of these 

 facts has not been made clear to us. The action of light, of 

 gravitation, or of any external condition as a factor in direction 

 fails to satisfy us. It has been usual, especially of recent years, to 

 refer to conditions of environments as accounting for many of the 

 phenomena of life. Undoubtedly these conditions must operate to 

 some extent, or the speculations based on them could not command 

 the assent of so many great minds. We know, for instance, that 

 a plant growing vigorously in a cellar or dark room will incline 

 toward the light ; but I have shown in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy that in the dense darkness of mines species of Agaric, 

 growing from the roof or sides, curve their stipes upwardly, as do 

 mushrooms that spring up in a dark night on the side of a sloping 

 bank. T have also shown in the same publication that many plants 

 closely observed by me carry on their curving operations by night 

 rather than in the light of day. So in regard to the thought that 

 the operations of plant life are carried on for individual good — the 

 great weapon in the battle for life among modern hynotheses of 

 evolution, this must be ti'ue to a limited extent. In the case of 

 the Magnolia acuminata herewith illustrated (Plate XVI), we can 

 see that if the curvings of the young shoots continued witliout any 

 change in the original direction of the main laterals, the head of 

 the tree would become as round as a cabbage and the interior 

 branches would be smothered out. The declination iu time gives 

 scope to the young growth, and even tlie final uprising of the 

 branch toward its apex is. still kept within regulation distance of 

 its fellows. In the Fir and Spruce the self-utility of the curvatures 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



is clearly apparent. The tree could scarcely keep a mass of foliage 

 in healthy condition wholly to the ground if it adhered strictly 

 to the acute-angular method that marks the upper growths. 



So far we may trace the effort for individual benefit in the direc- 

 tion changes, but that conditions of environment are active forces 

 in the work may well be doubted from the fact of great variation 

 in the degrees of curvature. 



It has already been stated that the observations were made on 

 my own grounds. Comparing, however, trees of my own with 

 other.s of the same species on neighboring properties, we find wide 

 divergencies. In some trees of the same species there will be few 

 illustrations of curving, while in others nearly every large branch 

 will take on an arcuate form. This fact is illustrated in Plate 

 XVI of Magnolia acuminata. The two trees are within thirty 

 feet of each other. The one on the right shows considerable 

 incurving. The upper branches have retained their original 

 angular divergence, and the bend toward the horizon as age 

 advanced has been gradual ; only a few at the base and on the one 

 side have reached that point. We can see that if this tree had 

 wholly lost the recurving power we should have a fastigiate indi- 

 vidual, closely imitaling a Lombardy Poplar in form. But the 

 one on the left took early to recurving, and to such an extent that 

 it seemed to the good of the tree that these should ultimately 

 incurve in order to afiord room for a healthful branching devel- 

 opment. 



"With all these individual variations there is still a general char- 

 acter assumed by each species, by which it may be distinguished as 

 well as by the characters derived from leaves, flowers or fruits. 

 In Quereus paludris, for instance (Plate XVII), there is little dis- 

 position to curvature in the decumbent branches. They bend very 

 close to the main trunk. They commence to diverge when about 

 five years old, and the continuously increasing degree of divergence 

 can be seen at a glance. This character will vary more or less in 

 different trees, but there is almost always enough in evidence to enable 

 one to distinguish the Pin Oak from other species. The Scarlet Oak, 

 Quereus coccinea, rarely shows any disposition to curve mature 

 branches. A representation of this species is given on the right 

 hand of the Pin Oak (Plate XVII). But hei-e we may note again 

 that there is no necessity for it, as the original angle of divergence 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juue, 



is sufficient to allow for a fair development without subsequent 

 change. May we not borrow a simile frotn a class of metaphysicians 

 who contend that " man is not merely a creature of cii'cumstauces, 

 but his character is mainly made for him and not by him," and 

 believe that an inborn direction, and not environment to :iny great 

 extent, is the ruling power in vegetable life ? 



What is the nature of this power that is capable of bending 

 with ease and without a break an old branch or trunk of a thick- 

 ness thai would require an immense mechanical pressure for man 

 to accomplish ? How does it operate ? 



In the paper already cited' I drew attention to the fact that the 

 life-growth of a plant was in a measure a struggle against gravita- 

 tion, and that a great part of the nutrition prepared by the plant 

 was spent in supplying energy in this struggle. Consequently when 

 a plant received extraneous aid in the contest, the extra nutrition 

 saved by this assistance was diverted to extra growth and luxu- 

 riance. Many observations have since shown that to energy trans- 

 muted from nutrition we have to look for the various forms that 

 plants assume. To the highest degree of energy we may attribute 

 the chief triumph of growth force over gravitation. This is ex- 

 emplified in the leading shoot of Pine trees. Observers know that 

 in this leading shoot the highest vegetative force is exhibited. It 

 so successfully resists all gravitating influences that it is drawn in 

 no degree from an exact perpendicular. If, however, the main 

 growing shoot of a vigorous tree is broken off, the extra nutrition 

 diverted from the centre to the lateral branches supplies one of 

 these with an extra degree of energy, and a new leader arises in 

 place of the lost one. From this Ave deduce the law that plants 

 are engaged in a contest with gravitation, and that geotropism is 

 in proportion to the degree of energy lost in the contest. 



Going over the list of plants enumerated in this paper, we note 

 that decumbency is in proportion to the decline of vigor, and we 

 find this to be the case in individual trees generally. Whal are 

 known in gardens as fastigiate trees, of which the Lombardy 

 Poplar is a type, ai-e remarkable for the vigor of the central shoot 

 and laterals. Weeping trees, on the other hand, are characterized 

 by decreased vigor. The normal form of Salix Japonica, of 

 which the so-called Babylonian Willow is an offspring, is very 



^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PInln., 1866, p. 401. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



strong in comparison with the variety. The Kihuarnock Weeping 

 "Willow is weak in comparison with Salix caprea, its parent, and 

 this is true of all the Aveeping trees in gardens — they are all in 

 various degrees more slender and delicate than the normal forms 

 of the same species. 



The ability to overcome gravitation has been lost, iu proportion 

 to the lessened degree of energy. 



How does this view account for the case of the incurving of 

 branches that have become decumbent ? 



It seems like a mere restatement of the fact to say that the 

 incurving branch has simply regained a power to successfully lesist 

 gravitation it had never wholly lost. When we note, however, 

 that these incurves are all methodical, and onlv occur when they 

 are evidently beneficial to the plant, we may infer that energy 

 itself is not blindly directed, but is under the control of a life- 

 power within the plant that is able to strengthen a weak position 

 when it is for the general good. AVe see this when it undertakes 

 to heal a wound ; we only extend our view of this power to meet 

 these new cases. 



In conclusion, trees have the power, not merely to grow into 

 various forms as it is usually understood, but to bend mature 

 branches when exigencies require it; and this display of power 

 results from varying degrees of energy employed by i^lants in 

 their struggle with gravitation. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juue, 



OBSERVATIONS UPON THE PLACENTA AND YOUNG OF 

 DASYPUS SEXCINCTUS. 



BY HEXRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



The Edentata, so called by Cuvier on account of the teeth being 

 so imperfectly developed or absent in the representatives of the 

 order, includes a very heterogeneous assemblage of animals — ant- 

 eaters, sloths, armadillos — differing very much in their internal 

 organization, especially in the character of their placeutation. 

 Thus the placenta in the Cape ant-eater, Orijctwopiis, is deciduous 

 and, according to some authorities,^ discoidal, to others^ zonular 

 inform. In theTamandua, T. tetradactyla, it is possibly deciduous 

 and discoidal;' in the sloths, Chokcpus Hoffnianni, it is decidu- 

 ous and loboid in form;'' in the Pangolin, Manis, f non-decidu- 

 ous and diffuse;" in certain species of armadillos, e. g. Dasypus 

 novemcindus, possibly deciduous and discoidal/ 



In view of the fact that such profound differences exist in the 

 placentation of the Edentata, il is hoped that the following obser- 

 vations upon the placenta and young of the six-banded armadillo 

 born in the Philadelphia Zoological Garden and submitted to the 

 author for examination by JNIr. A. E. Brown, Secretarv of the 

 Society, will prove acceptable. It should be mentioned in this 

 connection that in the case of the placenta of Dasypus novemcinc- 

 tas as described by Milne-Edwards," four foetuses wei'e found 

 enclosed in one chorion. Such a disposition, far from being an 

 abnormal one, would seem to be that usually obtaining, at least in 

 that species of armadillo, since the same number of foetuses were 



* T. H. Huxley, Introduction to the Classification of Animals, LondoD, 

 1869, pp. 98, 104. 



'^W. Turner. Journal of Anat. and Phys., Vol. 10, 1876, p. 69o. 



^ A. Milne-Edwards, Ann. des Sciences Nat., CinquiemeS6rie,Zool., XV, 

 1672, p. 2. 



*W. Turner, Trans, Royal Society of Edinburgh, Vol. XXVII, 1876, 

 pp. 76, 78. 



^T. H. Huxley, op. cit., p. 104. 



''' Alpb. Milue-Edwards, Annalcs des Sciences Naturrllcs, Sis.ii:me Sitrie, 

 Zoologie, VIII, 1879, pp. 2, 3. 



' Oj). cit., p. 2. 




1901.] Nj^TURAL sciences of PHILADELPHIA. 367 



observed enclosed iu a coiumou chorion by Kolliker" before, and 

 by Duges" after Milne -Edwards' observations. Different explana- 

 tions have been offered by anatomists of this apparent anomaly of 

 one chorion enclosing a number of foetuses. The most satisfac- 

 tory as yet offered, though hypothetical, the early development of 

 the armadillo being unknown, is that originally the number of 

 chorions correspond to the number of foetuses, but that as devel- 

 opment advances the adjacent walls of the primitively distinct 

 chorions fuse together and ultimately break down, the result being 

 the formation of one chorion. In the case of the six-banded arma- 

 dillo, Dasypus sexdnctus, the mother gave birth to but one young, 

 and there were no reasons for supposing that more than one was 

 developed during the pregnancy. 



The young armadillo (Plate XVIIl, fig. 1), the fu'st born at the 

 Philadelphia Zoological Garden, a aiale which lived but a few 

 hours, was perfectly developed and measured from snout to end of 

 tail 25 centimeters (10 inches). The most striking feature of the 

 young animal externally was the size of the penis, it measuring 3.7 

 centimeters (1.5 inches). It is well known that this organ attains 

 an enormous size in the adult armadillo, absolutely as well as 

 relatively. Six distinct broad bauds and two indistinct narrow 

 ones were observed on the dorsal surface, but they were as yet soft 

 to the touch. 



No trace was found of an umbilical vesicle, amnion, or any 

 part of the chorion except that entering into the formation of the 

 placenta. The umbilical cord measured 22.5 centimeters (9 

 inches), the vessels not being spirally disposed, as was also observed 

 by Milne-Edwards to be the case in the Tamandua. The umbilical 

 vessels were so much torn (having been apparently gnawed l)y the 

 mother) as to make it impossible to inspect the placenta through 

 them. A mixture of gelatine and carmine was, however, forced 

 directly into a few of the small vessels of the placenta, which 

 consisted of the villous processes of the chorion only, without 

 admixture of any maternal tissue, and was therefore nou-decidu- 

 ate. The foetal villi were disposed as a girdle or zone (Plate 

 XVIII, fig. 2) on that part of the chorion in contact with the 



* EnhoicklungsgescMchte des McnscJien, 1879, S. 362. 



' Annales des Sciences KafnreUes, Sixicme Ser. , Zoologie, IX, 1879-80, p. 1. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



uterus. The zoue measured from outer edge to outer edge about 

 5 centimeters (2 inches), the average breadth of the rim of the 

 zone 1.2 centimeters (.5 inch), the breadth of the space between 

 the inner edges of the zone and destitute of villi 2.5 centimeters 

 (1 inch). The placenta in the six-banded armadillo is not, how- 

 ever, a zonular one in the sense in which that word is used by- 

 anatomists. It does not surround the chorion as a broad baud, the 

 poles of the latter being bare as in the " diffuse " non-deciduate 

 placenta of the pig ; nor as a narrow one as in the " zonular " 

 deciduous placenta of the Carnivora, etc. It should be regarded 

 morphologically rather as a discoidal placenta, the central portion 

 of the disk — ihat is, the part of the chorion lying within the inner 

 edges of the rims of the villous zoue — presenting, however, no 

 villi. The placenta in Dasypus sexcinctiis being therefore ring- 

 shaped, rather than discoid in form, if it be permitted to introduce 

 a new name in anatomical nomenclature, it might be described as 

 a non-deciduate cricoid placenta." The villi, measuring on an 

 average 20 mm. (.8 inch), were not simple as in the Pachy- 

 dermata, Camelidte and Tragulid^e, but compound as in Man. 

 They presented a beautiful arborescent appearance (Plate XVIII, 

 fig. 3), the terminal twigs ending in bulbous or rounded extremi- 

 ties (fig. 4). As is well known, Von Baer,'' Eschricht,^' the elder 

 Milne -Edwards," Huxley," and in recent times Haeckel,^' advo- 

 cated classifying the monodelphous mammalia according to the 

 character of the placentation. It is obvious, however, as shown 

 by the summary given below, that on such a basis the diff^ercnt 

 members of the Edentata would be associated with mammals with 

 which they have no natural affinities, just as, according to such 

 classification, totally different animals like the Hyrax, Elephant, 

 and Carnivora are associated, and which constitutes one of the most 

 important objections that have been urged to the acceptance of 

 such classification. 



If KpiKo?, a ring. 



" Untermclmnrjen uber die Gefassverbindung zwischen, Mutter und 

 Frucht, 1828. 



^^ De Orrjunis qum Respiratione et Nutritioni Fcetus Mammalium inser- 

 viunt, 1837. 



" Annales des Sciences Natxirelles, Serie 3, Tome I, 1844, p. 65. 



^* Elernents of Comparative Anatomy, p. 112. 



^^ Anthropocjenie, 1891, S. 591. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 



369 



Deciduous 



Placenta -{ 



Discoidal 



Zonular 



f Diffuse 



I Non -deciduous 



Cotyledonary 

 Cricoid 

 i. Discoidal 



Primates, etc. 



Brady pus. 



Elephant. 



Carnivora. 



Orycteropus. 

 f Sus. 

 \ Manis. 

 r Bos. 

 I Ovis. 



Dasypus sexciactus. 

 f Dasypus novemcinctus."' 

 t Tamandua tridactyla. '* 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVIIL 



Fig. 1. — Young Armadillo and foetal face of placenta. 



Fig. 2 — Uterine face of placenta. 



Fig. 3. — A villous process of the chorion. 



Fig. 4. — A portion of the same as seen when magnified. 



^® Incertum sedis. 



24 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



THE ACRIDID5;, TETTIGONID^ AND GRYLLID^ COLLECTED BY 

 DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH IN NORTHEAST AFRICA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



As a portion of this collection has been previously reported on,* 

 it is not necessary to repeat any of the preliminary remarks then 

 made. 



Family ACRIDIDJE. 

 Subfamily Acridinse {Tryxalince and.). 



Acrida nasuta (Linna-us). 



1758. Oryllus {Acrida) nasuta Linniseus, Sy.st. Nat., X ed., I, p. 427. 



Ten specimens, four males, two females, four immature. 



Grorgora, Gallaland, September 13, 1894. d. 



Near Hargeisa, Somahland, July 21, 1894. c?, ?• ■ 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 21, 1894. cT, 3 imma- 

 ture. 



Near Lake Abaya, country of the Amara, western Gallaland^ 

 May 9, 1895. c?. 



No data. ? and 1 immature. 



Acrida unguiculata (Rambur). 



1838. Tryxalis unguiculata Rambur, Faune de I'Audal., p. 72. 



Four specimens, two males, one female, one immature. 



Tug Berka, Somaliland, August 23, 1894. d". 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 6, 1894. Immature. 



Daro Mountains, Gallaland, November 19, 1894. ?. 



Le, southern Gallaland, March 29, 1895. d 



The single female resembles the specimen figured by Klug" as 

 T. conspiu'cata. 



Machaeridia bilineata Stal. 



187:; Maclueridia hilineata Stal, Receusio Ortbopterorum, I, p. 100. 

 Two females ; near Lake Abaya, countiy of the Amara, western 

 Gallaland, Mav 9, 1895. 



' S 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, pp. 273-288. 

 * Symbolce Pltysico', II, tab. xvii, fig. 1. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



These specimens lack the l)Lick on the lower surface of the pos- 

 terior femora. 



Fhloeoba mossambicensis Brancsik? 



1895. PJilceoha mossambiccnsii^ Eraiicsik, Jahresli. Xatnrw. Ver. 

 Trencsen, XVII, p. 249, tab. VIII, jig. 1. 



One female; Luku, Gallaland, September 17, 1894. 



This specimen very likely belongs to Brancsik's species. It is 

 clearly not P. antennata Schulthess, ■which was described from 

 Soraalilaud, and with the other species of the genus it exhibits no 

 affinity, 

 Locusta sp. 



One ? ; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 23, 1894. 



This specimen is so badly distorted and discolored that it is not 

 possible to determine more than the genus. For the use of this 

 generic name in place of Stenohoihrus Fischer, see Canadian En- 

 tomologist, XXXIII, p. 121, 



Epacromia thalassina (Fabricius). 



1793. Gryllus ihalassinus Fabricius, Ent. Syst., II, p. 57. 



One female; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 27, 1894. 



The collection contains six immature specimens of Acridince, 

 which it is hardly possible to determine. They were collected at 

 the following localities and dates : 



Xear Lake Abaya, country of the Amara, western Gallaland, 

 May 9, 1895 (2). 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 5, 1894 (2). 



Sheikh Mahomet, Gallaland, November 6, 1894. 



No data. 



Subfamily CEdipodinae. 

 Gastrimargus verticalis (Saussure). 



1884. (Edaleus verticalis Saussure, Proclr. Qi^dipod., p. Ill, 



Two specimens, one ?, one immature. 



Daror, Gallaland, September 15, 1894. 



Budda, west of Sheikh Mahomet, Gallaland, November 11, 

 1894. 



The adult has the maculations of the elytra decidedly blackish. 



Gastrimargus marmoratus (Thunberg). 



1815. Gryllus marmoratus Thunberg, Mem. Acad. St. Petersb., V, p. 

 232. 



One d"; Sheikh Husem, Gallaland, October 5, 1894. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



CEdaleus instillatus Burr. 



1900. Gidalei(S instillatus Burr, Pioc. Zool. Soo. London, p. 39. 



One cJ'; near Hargeisa, Somaliland, July 21, 1894. 



It is interesting to note tliat the specimen before me has a gen- 

 eral pinkish suffusion. 



Pachytylus migratoroides (Reiche and Fairmaire). 



1847. (Edipoda migratoroides Eeiche and Fairmaire, in Ferret and 

 Galiuier, Voy. en Abyss., Ill, p. 430. 



Four specimens, two males, two females. 

 Sheikh ]\Iahomet, Gallaland, Xovemher G, 1894. 

 Between Luku and Dago Tulo, Gallaland, September 18, 1894. 

 To one specimen is attached the following data: " Caught from 

 swarm. Migrating flocks of predaceous birds following them," 



Cosmorhyssa fasciata (Tliunbcrg). 



1815. Gryllus fasciatus Thunl)erg, Mem. Acad. St. Petersb., V, p. 230. 

 Two males; Tug Terfa, eastern Gallaland, August 21, 1894. 

 Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 30, 1894. 



Dittopternis couloniana Saussure. 



1884. Dittopternis cotdoniana Saussure, Prodr. Q^dip., p. 125. 



One d'; near Tug Lomo, between Lefkei and Bodele, Soniali- 

 land, August 12, 1894. 



This species was previously known from "West Africa. 



Chloebora gracilis Schulthess. 



1895. Chlabora gracilis ScbulthessRechberg, Zoolog. Jabrbucb, Syst. 

 Tb., VIII, p. 74. 



Two females; Hargeisa, Somaliland, July 21. 1894. 

 The Hand, between Hargeisa and Gagaap, Somaliland, July 

 25, 1894. 



Pycnodictya galinieri (Reiche and Fairmaire). 



1847. (Edipoda galinieri Eeicbe and Fairmaire, in Ferret and GaUnier, 

 Voy. en Abyss., Ill, p. 432, PI. 28, fig. 3. 



Two females, one immature; Tug Dado, near Laga, Gallaland, 

 December 2, 1894 (1). 



No data (1). 

 Acrotylus longipes (Charpentier). 



1845. (Edipoda longipes Charpentier, Ortbop descr., tab. 54. 



Two females, one immature; Berbera, Somaliland, July 3, 1894. 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 30, 1894. 



The collection contains a number of specimens of CE dipodince, 




1901.] NATUARL SCIEXCES OF PIIILADKLrillA. 373 



which I have not attempted to determine. They were collected as 

 follows: 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 30, 1894 (1). 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1, 1894 (1). 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 5, 1894 (5). 



Northern end of Lake Stephanie, western Gallaland, June 5, 

 1895 (1). 



No data (1). 



Subfamily Pyrgomorphinse. 



Atractomorpha aurivillii Bolivar. 



1884. Atractouiorpha aurivilUi Balivar, Anu. Soc. Esp. Hist. Nat., 

 XIII, Cuad. I, p. 67. 



One ? ; Dabuli, Gallaland, September 16, 1894. 



OchropMebia subcylindrica Bolivar. 



1881. Ochrophlebia subcylindrica Bolivar, Jouru. de Sc. Math. Lisboa, 

 XXX, p. 109. 



One female; between Berbera and Hargeisa, Somaliland, July 

 14, 1894. 



Except' for a few discrepancies in color, this is essentially the 

 same as Bolivar's specimens. 

 Cawendia gallae n. sp. 



Type, c?; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 30, 1894. 



Differing from C glabrata Karsch ' in the absence of pubes- 

 cence, the subequal vertex, the presence of lateral carinre and the 

 greater length of the tegmina. 



General outline fusiform. Head fairly elongate; face sharply 

 retreating, concave; vertex horizontal, anteriorly subtruncate, the 

 apex equal to the interspace between the eyes; frontal costa very 

 strongly compressed from the vertex to between the autennte, the 

 sulcus below this point being fairly broad, slightly ampliate at the 

 ocellus; eyes subspherical, moderately prominent; postocular line 

 of tubercles very marked, extending downward as well as back- 

 ward ; antennae filiform, as long as the head and jDronotum. Pro- 

 notum strongly puactate posteriorly, the dorsum well rounded and 

 with very insignificant traces of a median cai'ina; anterior margin 

 truncate with a shallow central emargination, posterior margin with 

 a central emargination which divides the border into two rounded 



5 Era. Nachr , XIV, p. 345. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



lobes; lateral carinre consisting of broken callous ridges, only 

 sliglitiy marked on the metazona, each cut l)y two sulci ; lateral 

 lobes with tlie lower margin sinuate with a post-median lobule, this 

 section of each lobe having a longitudinal series of large tubercles, 

 thus forming a continuation of the liuo on the head. Tegmina 

 elongate, not appreciably expanded. Abdomen with the basal 

 segments strongly punctate; subgenital plate large, the posterior 

 portion produced and superiorly forming a keel which extends 

 from the tip to the genital aperture; supraanal plate and cerci 

 elongate, acuminate. Posterior femora with all the carime well 

 marked, genicular lobes rather small; tiljite with eight spines on the 

 external and nine spines on the internal margin. 



General color brownish olivaceous varied with ochraceous, under 

 parts yellowish. Posterior portion of the pronotum and a median 

 line on the abdomen dull reddish. Tubercles on the head, lower part 

 of the lateral lobes, metapleurpe and four lines (^two superiorly and 

 two laterally) on the abdomen ochraceous. Posterior femora with 

 a dull ochi'aceous bar on the lower portion of the external face ; 

 tibipe tinged Avitli purplish, the spines tipped with reddish black. 



Length of body, 24 mm. 



Length of head, 5 " 



Length of pronotum, 5.5 " 



Length of hind femora, 12.5 " 



Poecilocerus vittatus (Klug). 



1829. Decticm vittatus Klug, Symbol. Physicne, t. XXV, figs. 6 and 7. 

 Two males; between Berbera and Hargeisa, Somaliland. July 

 14, 1894. 



Phymateus aegrotus (Gerstacker). 



1869. Pmcilocerus mgrota Gerstajcker, Archiv. f. Naturg., XXXV, p. 

 216. 



One ? ; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 15, 1894. 



Phymateus morbillosus (Linna'us). 



1758. Gryllm {Locusta) viorbillosiis Linuteus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 

 431. 



Seven specimens, one male, six females: 



Feji, near the Darde, eastern Gallaland, September 7, 



1894 (?). 



Duror, Gallaland, September 15, 1894 (d", ?). 



No data (4 ?). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



Phymateus sp. 



Eight immature specimens : 



Dabuli, Gallaland, September 16, 1894 (2). 



Daga Tula, iiear Sheikh Huseiu, Gallalaud, September 19, 

 1894 (5). 



No data (1). 



Taphronota thselepliora (Stoll). 



1789. Oryllus (Locuskt) thwlephora Stoll, Represent., PI. XVI/?, fig. 

 59. 



One ? ; Dumbohx Kalta, country of the Boran, east of Lake 

 Stephanie, western Gallaland, April 20, 1895. 



Fetasia grisea Reiehe and Fairmaire. 



1817. Petasia grisea Reiehe and Fairmaire, in Ferret and Galiuie, Voy. 

 en Abyss., Ill, p. 428, PI. 28, figs. 2 and 2a. 



Two specimens; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 8, 1894; 

 Ginea, Gallaland, October 28, 1894. 



These specimens show a decided approach to P. anchietce Boli- 

 var, in the markings and form of the posterior part of the prono- 

 tum, though their closest affinity is with grisea. 



Petasia sp. 



One immature specimen; Sheikh Mahomet, Gallaland, Novem- 

 ber 6, 1894. 



Subfamily Pamphaginse. 

 Xiphocera brunneriana Saussure. 



1887. Xiphocera brunneriana Saussure, Spicil. Ent. Genav., 2, p. 43. 

 Three females ; Daga Tula, near Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, Sep- 

 tember 20, 1894; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 29, 1894; 

 no data. 



Xiphocera ensicornis Saussure. 



1893. Xiphocera ensicornis Saussure, Entom. Mouth. Mag., XXIX, p. 

 152. 



One ? ; no data. 

 Xiphocera sp. 



One c?; Daga Tula, near Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 

 20, 1894. 



Owing to the great difficulty of satisfactorily determining speci- 

 mens of this genus without a series of others for comparison, I 

 have not attempted to determine this specimen, which is badly 

 crushed and twisted. It is quite evident that it is not hranneriana. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Subfamily Calopteninae (Acridince auct.). 



Anthermus cephalicus Bolivar? 



1890. Anthermus cephalicus Bolivar, Journ. Scienc. Math. Pbys. Xat., 

 Lisboa, (II) I, p. 157. 



Two immature females; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1 

 and 7, 1894. 



Cyrtacanthacris tataricus (Linnaus). 



1758. Gryllus (Locusta) tataricum Linnpeu=i, Syst. Xat., X ed., I, p. 

 432. Tbe use of the name^ Cyrtacanthacris is preferable to Aery- 

 dium, the status of which is' rather uncertain. 



Three specimens, one male, two females : 

 Luku, Gallaland, Septeml:)er 17, 1894. 

 Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 29, 1894. 

 No data (1). 



Cyrtafenthacris ruficornis (Fabricius). 



1793. Gryllus ruficornis Fabricius, Entom. Syst., II, p. 54. 



Six specimens, one male, three females. 



No data. 



Near Bodele, eastern Gallaland, August 15, 1894. 



Grorgora, eastern Gallaland, September 13, 1894. 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 25, 1894 (2). 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 10, 1894. 



Acrostegastes affinis Sclmlthess. " 



1898. Acrostegastes affinis Scbulthess, Ann . ISIus. Civ. Genova, XXXIX, 

 p. 192. 



One female ; no data. 



This specimen differs from the one described by Schulthess in 



having ten spines on the external margin of the posterior tibise. 



Exochoderes aurantiacus Bolivar. 



1881. Exochoderes axirantiacus Bolivar, Jorn. Scien. Math. Phys. Nat., 

 Lisboa, XXX, p. 114. 



Two females; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1, 1894; 

 Kurava Wells, lietween Aimola and Le, southern Gallaland, 

 March 25, 1895. 



Sauracris lacerta Burr. 



1900. Sauracris lacerta Burr, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, p. 41. 



Four females. 



Tug Berka, eastern Gallaland, August 23, 1894. 



Near Lefkei, Somaliland, August 7, 1894. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Tulu, between Ginea and Laga, Gallalaud, November 23, 1894. 



No data. 



The specimen from Tulu is much larger, more deeply colored 

 and more coarsely scabrous on the vertex than the other specimen?, 

 and the spines on the outer border of the hind tibiic number eight 

 against six in the others, though Burr says, ' ' tibiae posticse spinis 

 extus 6-8." On the whole, the large specimen may represent a 

 geographical race. As comparative measurements might be of 

 interest, I have taken some of ihe dimensions. 



Average of 

 3 small sp. Large sp. 



Total length, 32 mm., 41 mm. 



Width across eyes, 5.8 " 6.8 " 



Length of pronotum, 6.1 " 7.8 



Greatest width of pronotum, , . . 7.1 " 8.25 " 



Length of hind femora, 12.2 " IST" 



Catantops melanostictus Schaiim. 



186-2. Catantops melanostictus Scbanm, in Peter's Reise nach Mossam- 

 bique, Zool., V, p. 134. 



Eight specimens, three males, five females (two immature). 

 Duror, Gallaland, September 15, 1894. 

 Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 21, 1894. 

 Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1, 1894, (2) 

 Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 7, 1894. 

 No data (3). 



Stenocrobylus festivus Karscli. 



1892. Stenocrohylus festivus Karsch, Berlin Ent. Zeitsch., XXXVI, 

 p. 190. 



One female; Rassa Allah, western Gallaland, September 6, 

 1894. 



This specimen agrees very well with Karsch's description of the 

 structural characters of festivus, but the color shows a marked 

 difference. As to whether the specimen in the collection is faded or 

 represents a race distinguished by a more uniform coloration re- 

 mains to be seen. 



Eyprepocnemis somalicus n. sp. 



Types; oue male and two females; Gagap, Somaliland, July 

 30, 1894; Berbera, Somaliland, July 3, 1894; near Lefkei, 

 Somaliland, August 6, 1894. 



This new form evidentlv belongs to the section of the genus con- 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



tiiining hcrbacivs Serville and charpenlierl Stal, though it shows a 

 rather close relationship to E. cjuineensis Krauss. 



Form rather elongate. Head Avith the face somewhat declivent; 

 the frontal costa broad, slightly expanded iuferiorly, not sulcate; 

 vertex broad, rounded ; eves rather elongate. Antenme filiform, 

 longer than head and pronotuni. Pronotum slightly expanding 

 posteriorly, median carina well marked, cut by two transverse 

 sulci; anterior and posterior margins very slightly rounded; lateral 

 lobes sharply deflected, the lower margins sinuate, angles obtuse- 

 aagulate. Tegmina long, rounded at the tips which reach the 

 extremities of the hind femora. Pleurae strongly puuctate. Hind 

 femora robust, elongate, genicular lobes well developed; tibia) with 

 12-15 spines on the external and 10-12 on the internal margins. 

 Tarsi with the areoke large. Hubgenital plate of the male large 

 and spatulate, the apex with a subelliptical fissure ; supraanal 

 plate broad and flat, the apex angulate; cerci apically expanded, 

 flabellate, the tips decurved. 



General color ochraceous-rufous (Ridgway's Nomenclaiure, PI. 

 V, No. 5), marked with brownish-black, as follows: a median 

 stripe on the pronotum, the upper margin of the prozona and the 

 posterior region of the metazona, a line of spots on the anal field 

 of the tegmina, and the regular subcircular spots on the radial 

 field of the same. Upper surface of the hind femora pinkish, the 

 outer face of the same with two superior blackish blotches ; genicu- 

 lar arches blackish. 



d> ? 



Length of body, 40 mm., 47.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 7 " 9 " 



Length of tegmina, 32 " 43 



Length of hind femora, 26 " 30 



Euryphymus erythropus (Tlumberg). 



1815. Gryllus erythropus Thunberg, Mem. Acad. St. Tetersb., V, p. 

 248. 



One immature female; Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 

 21, 1894. 



This immature specimen agrees with the descriptions of Thun- 

 berg' s erythroj^us, a species apparently known only from South 

 Africa. 

 Euryphymus sp. 



Que immature female; Berbera, Somaliland, July 3, 1894. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHIA. 879 



Sphodromerus sanguiniferus n. sp. 



Type; c?; no data. 



Closely allied to .S'. inconqncun,^ Schu]thess^ but differing in the 

 number of spines on the external margin of the hind tibia> (incon- 

 ispicuus 9, sang uinif eras 7), and the alisence of a black fasciatiou 

 on the same. A close relationship also exists with >S. decoloratus 

 Finot/ but several characters are (juite at variance. 



Form thickset and robust. Head with the vertex decliveut, 

 posteriorly with a slight carina; frontal costa expanding inferiorly, 

 sulcate except immediately around the ocellus; eyes prominent, 

 globose; antenna? depressed, longer than head and pronotum. 

 Fronotum rugose, posteriorly expanding, median carina well devel- 

 oped, cut by three sulci ; anteriol* margin subtruncate, posterior 

 rectangulate, the border somewhat sinuate; lateral lobes separated 

 from the dorsum by well-marked lateral carinre, posterior angle 

 subrotundate, the matazona punctate. Tegmina short, not reaching 

 the tip of the femora. Anterior and median femoi'a robust, 

 slightly bowed. Posterior femora very robust, the superior and 

 inferior margins well developed, the former serrate; tibire stout, 

 armed with seven spines on the external and internal margins. 

 Subgenital plate bowl-shaped, the posterior portion very slightly 

 produced; supraanal plate subtriangular with two median ridges, 

 subobsolete anteriorly; cerci very heavy, with an external blunt 

 denticle. 



General color ferruginous ; lower part of head, outer face of 

 posterior femora and lower surface yellowish, the head very pale. 

 Pronotum and tegmina washed with dull reddish. Tegmina with 

 four longitudinal rows of blackish spots. Lateral and. superior 

 surfaces of the hind femora with two obsolete blackish bars, the 

 inferior internal face of the same sanguineous. Posterior tibire 

 sanguineous, the spines ochraceous with black tij^s. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 26 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.5 " 



Length of tegmina, 13 " 



Length of hind femora, 13 " 



*Zool. Jahrb., Si/st. Abth., VIII, p. 78. 

 ^Ann. Soe. Eat. France, LXIII, p. xiii. 




380 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juue, 



The collection contains six specimens of the CalopteniiKZ too 

 immature to be identified. 



Erer river, eastern Gallaland, August 18, 1894. 

 Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1, 3 and 7, 1894. 



Family TETTIGONID^. 



The greater part of the material belonging to this family is so 

 badly broken and crushed that I am unable to determine fifteen 

 specimens, collected as follows: 



East of Milinil. Somaliland, July 25, 1894. 



Sheikh Mahomet, Gallaland, October 30, 1894. 



Sheikh Mahomet, Gallaland, November 9, 1894. 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 30, 1894 . 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, September 29, 1894. 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 7, 1894. 



Sheikh Husein, Gallaland, October 1, 1894. 



Between Tulu and Abdula, Gallaland, November 24, 1894. 



Near Lake Abaya, country of the Amara, western Gallaland, 

 May 9, 1895. 



Cymatomera hyperborea n. sp. 



Types; two males, one female; Higo, country of the Boran, 

 Gallaland, April 8, 1895 (2); near the Galena Amara, between 

 Lenja Amara and El He, Gallaland, May 25, 1895. 



This species is allied to C. modeda, from which it dififers in numer- 

 ous particulars, as the truncate anterior margin of the pronotum, 

 the different development of the metazona of the same, besides the 

 almost total absence of black in the coloring. The new form also 

 exhibits a close affinity to C. brunneri Brancsik,'^ but it differs from 

 that species in the much lower metazonal crest and the absence of 

 any foliaceous development of the superior margins of the posterior 

 femora. 



General form elongate. Head with the vertex produced, the apex 

 narrowly truncate, the lateral margins being sinuate; front broad and 

 flattened, finely punctate; eyes very prominent, spherical; antennte 

 exceeding the total length. Pronotum with the anterior margin trun- 

 cate, posterior subrotundate ; prozoua with a central lamellate ridge, 

 the margin being dentate, the exact number of teeth (3-7) being 



^Juhresb. Naturw. Ver. Trencsen, XVII, p. 257. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



variable, the anterior lateral augle with a spiue followed after a 

 short space by another; central metazonal ridge lamellate, the 

 margin crenulate, in one case decidedly bidentate, the postero- 

 lateral angle occnpied by a bifid process which roofs the humeral 

 sinus ; lateral lobes with the lower margin centrally emargiuate, the 

 median area of the lobes occupied by three spines arranged longi- 

 tudinally, the central one smaller than the others. Tegmina with 

 the apex subacute, the cross veins of the discoidal area very 

 prominent. Femora of all the limbs with both margins with foli- 

 aceous extensions, except the superior surfaces of the anterior and 

 posterior femora, the extensions with the margins crenulate ; fora- 

 mina on the anterior femora very prominent ; posterior femora 

 feebly spined below on both margins. Sternal plate with very 

 large foveohie. Ovipositor considerably longer than the pronotum. 

 General color pale ferruginous (probably green in life, as one 

 specimen bears traces of that color), varied with whitish on the 

 head, pronotum and limbs, and sienna on the transverse veins of the 

 discoidal area of the tegmina. Lower surface pale yellow. An- 

 tennae whitish, anuulated with umber; head and pronotum laterally 

 dusted with whitish. Costal area of the tegmina anteriorly 

 blackish. 



Measurements. 



Length of head and body, 26 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.5 " 



Length of tegmina, 36.5 " 



Length of hind femora, 12.5 " 



Conocephalus mandibularis (Charpentier). 



1825. Locusta mandibularis Charpentier, Horse entom., p. 106. 

 One female; Daga Tula, Gallaland, September 19, 1894. 



Pomotrips horridus (Burmeis-tei). 



1838. Hetrodes horridus Burmeister, Handb. d. Eut., II, p. 679. 

 One female ; no data. 



Family GRYLLID^. 

 Gryllotalpa africana Palis, d. Beauv. 



1821. Gryllotalpa africana Palis, d. Beauv., Ins. d'Afr. et d'Amer., n. 

 229, PI. lie, fig. 6. 



One male; near Tug Berka, east of Finik, Gallaland, December 

 18, 1894. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Gryllus ater Saussnre. 



1877. Gryllus ater Saassure, Melanges Orthopterplogiques, V, p. 337. 

 Two specimens. S" and ? ; Sheikh Hnsein, Gallaland, Septem- 

 ber 23, 1894. 



Gryllus sp. 



Three immature specimens. 



Hargeisa (Argassa), Somaliland, July 18, 1894. 



Dubuli, Gallaland, September 16, 1894. 



Between Budesa and Guo Soti, country of the Borau, western 

 Gallaland, May 17, 1895. 



Phaeophyllacris abyssinica Saussurc.; 



1678. PhcEophyllacris abyssinica Saussure, Melanges Orthopterologi- 

 ques, VI, p. 587. 



One female; Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland, September 21, 1894. 



(Ecanthus pelluceus (Scopoli). 



1763. Gryllus pelluceus Scopoli, Ent. Carn., p. 32. 



One male; Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland, September 30, 1894. 



Brachytrupes membranaceus (Drury). 



1773. Gryllus membranaceus Drury, lUust. Ms., II, tab. 43, fig. 2. 

 One immature male; Sheikh Huseiu, Gallaland, September 29, 

 1894. 



Heterotrypus africanus Saussure. 



1878. Heterotrypus africanus Saussure, Melanges Orthopterologiques, 

 VI, p. 680. 



Two specimens, S' and immature ? . 



East of Tug Berka, near Finik, Gallaland, December 19, 1894. 

 Near Abdula, between Tulu and Laga, Gallaland, November 

 20, 1894. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PPIILADELPIIIA. 383 



July 2. 



Mr. Charles Morris iu the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Land Molhisks of Loo Choo Islands," 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry, -was presented for publication. 



July 9. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' A Study of an Ant, ' ' by Adele M. Fielde, 

 was presented for publication. 



July 16. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Eight persons present . 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Tombigbee River," by 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



" Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, IV," by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 



" The Spermatogenesis of Oniscus asellus Linn., with Special 

 Reference to the History of the Chromatin," by M. Louise 

 Nichols. 




384 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jllly> 



July 23. 

 Mr. Charles Morrls iu the Chair. 



Six persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 '' Cymbuliopsis vitrea, a New Species of Pteropod," by Harold 



Heath. 



" Biographical Notice of Robert Henry Lamborn,'' by Carrie 



B. Aaron. 



The Publication Committee reported Jul}' 29 in favor of pub- 

 lishing papers entitled " Certain Aboriginal Remains of the North- 

 west Florida Coast, Part 1," and " Certain Aboriginal Remains 

 of the Tombigbee River," by Clarence B. Moore, in the Journal, 

 and on the following for publication in the Proceedings : 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



NEW JAPANESE MARINE, LAND AND FRESH-WATER MOLLUSCA. 

 EY HENRY A. PILSBRY'. 



The present paper contiuues the description of new species of 

 mollusks discovered by INIr. Y. Hi rase. I have taken this oppor- 

 tunity to illusti'ate the Japanese marine shells described in a former 

 communication.^ 



PLEUROTOMID^. 

 Daphnella fragilis var. articulata nov. PI. XXI, fig. 26. 



General form of D. fnajilis (Rve. ) or D. lymnceformis (Kien. ). 

 Apical two whorls smooth; several whorls following sculptured 

 with unequal spiral cords, as coarse as those on the last whorl, 

 densely crenulate or beaded by close fine longitudinal laminae, 

 much less prominent and closer than the spirals. Last whorl 

 densely and evenly latticed by alternately larger and smaller spiral 

 cords intersecting scarcely less prominent, but rather closer, longi- 

 tudinal rib-stria;. Pale brown, every fourth cord marked with 

 browu in narrow lines along the cord, alternating with diffused 

 white spots; a row of alternately brown and white squarish spots 

 below the suture: the early whorls l)rown. Aperture smooth 

 witliin, the outer lip thin, regularly arcuate, rather strongly 

 retracted above. Length 19, diam. 7, largest axis of apei'ture 

 • 11 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen, in western Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 903), 

 types No. 80,634 Coll. A. N. S. P.; Kamakura, just below Tokyo 

 Bay, on the eastern side of Hondo (Acad. Coll.). 



Mr. Tryon has lumped several totally distinct species under D. 

 lyhimejormis, but the form so called by Kiener is less plump than 

 articulata, with even, close spirals and inconspicuous longitudinal 

 sculpture on the last whorl, while the spire has comparatively 

 strong costae and rather coarse spirals. The color, well shown in 

 Kiener' s figure, is whitish, Avith tawny, waved and anastomosing 

 longitudinal stripes. D. fragilis has not yet, to my knowledge, 

 '^ThesQ Proceedings, p. 193. 

 25 




386 rROCEEDlXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



been adequately defined; but the form I have considered to be that 

 species has a small, elevated nucleus of 2^ Avhorls, followed by 

 about three costate whorls, the ribs crossed by two or three coarse 

 spiral cords; after which the sculpture becomes comparatively fine. 

 If I am correct in this identification, then articulata is a distinct 

 species; but as Hedley has lately hinted, many of the more critical 

 or difficult species of the " London School" of conchologists, of 

 which A. Adams and Reeve were shining lights, can be identified 

 with certainty only by visiting the British ^Museum." Under the 

 circumstances I subordinate my form from Japan to D. fragilis as 

 a variety, content to have a name for this well-marked shell, evi- 

 dently of wide distribution in Japanese waters. 



D. supercodata of E. A, Smith seems, from a specimen before 

 me, to belong near fragilis, though clearly distinct in both form 

 and sculpture. D. oruata Hinds fi'om Xew Guinea is evidently 

 allied, though with a different color-pattern. 



MITRIDu^. 

 Mitra (Costellaria) hizenensis n. sp. ri. XXI, fisr. 31. 



Shell slender, solid, dusky olive, with a brown or orange-brown 

 and rather prominent subsutural line and an ill-defined white zone 

 at the shoulder, in which the summits of the ribs are transversely 

 marked with short scattered brown lines; the narrow portion of 

 the base is pale yellow, with brown spots and dots. Surface rather 

 glossy, sculptured with rounded longitudinal ribs, nearly or quite 

 as wide as their intervals, 13 or 14 in number on the penultimate 

 whorl, becoming gradually weaker below the periphery of the last 

 Avhorl, and in adults obsolete toward the aperture; the concave in-* 

 tervals c^sed by very low, flat spirals, rather wider than the shal- 

 low, oblong pits between them, and about G in number on the 

 penultimate whorl. The last whorl is attenuated below, and has a 

 number of large spiral ribs and small cords and strioe, the largest 

 rib continuous with the upper columcllar plait. Whorls about ; 

 apex dark. Aperture small, dark purple-brown within, the lip 

 thin, white-bordered, multilirate inside. Columella with four sim- 

 ple plaits. Length 14.5, diam. 5, longest axis of aperture 7.5 

 mm,; length 17, diam. 6.5 mm. 



^ Or by imposing upon the pre.sent custodian of the collection of Mollusca, 

 wbo-se g- ocl nature is admitted to be well-nigh inexhaustible. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



Hirado, Hizeu, western Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 

 80,475 Coll. A. N. S. P., from G88« of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Near M. fiiscoapicata E. A. Smith, but it has more and shallower 

 spiral sulci in the intervals between the ribs, which are fewer in 

 number; it is smaller, the upper two plaits of the columella are 

 not grooved, and the coloration is somewhat different. M. gotoeiisis 

 and M. colluisoni have more numerous ribs. In adult specimens 

 of M. hlzenensis the latter third of the last whorl is smooth, the 

 costre disappearing. 



Mitra (Costellaria) vanattai n. sp. ri. XXI, tig. 2S. 



Shell rather slender, solid, brownish olive, with a wide dark- 

 brown baud below the periphery, and a light brown line at the 

 shoulder, the base bi*owu. Surface rather glossy, sculptured with 

 rounded longitudinal ribs, as wide as the smooth concave intervals, 

 14 in nuuiber on the penultimate whorl, obsolete on the latter half 

 of the last whorl ; the attenuated base sculptured with spiral cords, 

 the largest continuous with the upper plait of the columella, those 

 below it (about 4) progressively smaller; a few small spirals above 

 the large cord. Whorls remaining 8 (the apex being eroded), 

 somewhat convex. Aperture bluish and finely lirate deep within, 

 purple brown toward the white-bordered ihin ]\p. Columella with 

 5 plaits, the upper strong, not grooved. Length 17, diam. 7, 

 longest axis of aperture 8 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr Y. Hirase). Types No. 80,470, from 6886 

 of Ml'. Hirase's collection. 



This species was sent with the preceding, from which it is easilv 

 separated by the want of spiral sculpture between the ribs. Some- 

 what allied to JL semisculpta, but it differs in the smooth intervals. 

 M. ana/ogica Reeve has fewer plaits, according to the descrijtion. 



MURICIDuSl. 

 Tritonidea submenkeana n. sp. pi. xxi, fig. 24. 



Shell short-fusiform, very solid and strong. Sculptured with 

 longitudinal ribs, 12 to 15 in number on the last whorl, the last 

 rib very much larger, forming a large, swollen varix behind the 

 lip; crossed by spiral cords which are low in the intercostal spaces 

 but rise and widen into transverse, oblong, glossy tubercles where 

 they cross the ribs; the penultimate and earlier whorls having 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



three such spiral cords, the last whorl with ten (counted just 

 behind the outer lip) ; the intervals between the spiral cords every- 

 where densely, finely striate. Surface lustreless, black, Ihe inter- 

 vals between ribs and a peripheral belt largely white; the tubercles 

 of the subsutural cord are mostly bi'own, the others chiefly black. 

 Whorls about 8, but slightly convex, the spire being rather 

 straightly conic; last whorl impressed below the suture, concave 

 below the periphery, produced and spirally striated anteriorly. 

 Aperture less than half the length of the shell, blue-white inside, 

 the lip beveled, with a brown spot at the termination of each spiral 

 cord, thickened within and contracted by six rounded teeth, the 

 upper one more widely separated than the others, the second from 

 above largest. Columellar margin concave above with a pliciform 

 tooth near the posterior angle, straightened and rather wide below, 

 bearing five or six transverse tubercles. Length 15, diam. 7, 

 longest axis of aperture 7.5 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen, Avestern Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 

 80,538 Coll. A. K S., from 1,087 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This little black-and-white species groups with T. menkeana 

 Dkr., a shorter shell with similar coloration. The unusual promi- 

 nence of the tubercles on the columellar lip, and the sculpture of 

 ribs tuberculate at the intersections of spiral cords, give it much the 

 a2:)pearance of a S'lstrum. 



PURPURA. 



The luteostoma group of Purpura was too much lumped in my 

 Catalogue of Japanese Marine Mollusks. From a renewed study 

 of them, with much moi'e material, it seems that the following four 

 Japanese forms are recognizable: P. luteostoma (Chemn.) Dillwyn, 

 P. hronni Dkr., P. clavigera Kiister, P. tumulosa var. problematica 

 Baker (^ tumulosa Lischke not Reeve). I formerly followed 

 ISIr. E. A. Smith' in referring the latter to P. alveolata Reeve; 

 but I am now convinced that alveolata is, as Reeve stated, a 

 Panamic species. We have specimens from Panama in our collec- 

 tion exactly like his figure. 



Mr. Hirase sends the Californian species P. saxicola Val. from 

 Kisennuma, Rikuzen, on the east coast of Hondo. 



^RZ. S., 1879. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Euthria hokkaidonis n. sp. PI. XIX, fig. 17. 



Shell slender, fusiform, moderately solid, yellowish or purplish 

 ashen. Surface lustreless, sculptured with slightly oblique longi- 

 tudinal rounded folds as wide as their intervals, 13 or 14 in num- 

 ber on the penultimate whorl, wanting on the base of the last 

 whorl, where they disappear just below the periphery; crossed by 

 spiral cords alternating with threads or strife, of which there are 

 usually two in each interval; the coarser cords about 5 iu number 

 on the whorls of the spire, slightly widening as they cross the longi- 

 tudinal folds; the spirals alone developed on the base. Spire high; 

 whorls about 9, very convex, separated by deep sutures; the last 

 whorl concave below, produced in a slender, somewhat recurved 

 rostrum; siphonal ridge convex. Apei'ture small, ovate, acumi- 

 nate above, livid dull purple inside, with 8 to 10 acute folds within 

 the thin-edged outer lip; canal short and open. 



Length 22, diara. 8.5, length of aperture 10 mm. 



Length 22, diam. 8, length of aperture 9 mm. 



Nakauta, prov. Teshio, Hokkaido (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types 

 No. 80,394, from Xo. 102 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Apparently related to E. fmcolahlata E. A. Smith, from which 

 it differs conspicuously in the much more slender figure. 



COLUMBELLID^. 

 Columbella misera Sowerby. PI. XXI, figs. 37, 3S. 



C. miser Sowb., Thes. Conch., I, p. 129 bi>^, PI. 38, fig. 111. 

 This species is figured to illustrate its difference from the follow- 

 ing. It was taken iu some numbers at Kamakura, province Sag- 

 ami (below the mouth of Tokyo Bay), by Mr. Frederick Stearns. 

 It is very strongly ribbed, especially on the spire, the ribs being 

 about half the width of the interstices, about 11 or 12 in number 

 on the penultimate whorl, or on the last, wheu they are not obsolete 

 on its latter part, which is frequently the case. On the front of 

 the last whorl these ribs extend well over the periphery, but they 

 become much shorter on its latter half, or wholly obsolete. The 

 base is sculptured with coarse spiral cords, which become increas- 

 ingly weaker and obsolete as they appi'oach the periphery. Color 

 white, ivith one or tico dark brown spots on each rib and a checkered 

 striped basal zone; the back of the last whorl irregularly striped or 

 reticulate; a white zone, UfUully brov.'u-dotted on each rib, re- 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



volvcs below the suture. The form varies widely. Alt. 11, diam. 

 5.2 mm; alt. 12, diam. 6 mm. 



Figured specimens are No. 70,765 Coll. A. IST. S. P., from 

 Kamakura, Sagami. 



Columbella misera var. polynyma Pils. I'l- XXI, fis,'. 39. 



This vol., p. 196 Types No. 80,556 Coll. A. K S. P., from 

 No. 1,097 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Study of more specimens 

 causes me to doubt whether the characters of this form are con- 

 stantly different enough from misera to require specific rank. The 

 follovviiig variety connects them to some extent. 



Columbella misera var. californica Reeve. PL XXI, fiir. 36. 



ColiiinheUii californica Reeve, Conch. Icon., VI. fig. 165 (1859). 

 Kobelt, Coiichyl. Cab., p. 59, PI. 8, figs. 8, 4. Not C. californiana 

 Giiskoin, P. Z. S., 1851, p. 12. 



Specimens agreeing exactly with Reeve's figure were taken by 

 .Mr. Hirase at Hirado, Hizen. They are larger than C. misera, 

 but agree with that in sculpture, except that there are one or two 

 more ribs to a whorl. The coloration is much darker. There is a 

 white subsutural zone pied with black, and a white basal area 

 striped with black-brown; the intermediate space being more or 

 less suflfused with rich brown and copiously lineated with black- 

 brown. The ribs are black below the subsutural zone. Whorls 

 over seven. Alt. 13.5, diam. 6.5 mm.; alt. 14, diam. 6 mm. 



Prof, von Martens has quoted this race as a synonym of his C. 

 jaj)onica, but I think incorrectly. It is much nearer the true 

 misera, and in my opinion is a southern variety of that species. The 

 name given by Reeve is unfortunate, as it is not a Californian 

 species. The sj^ecimen figured is No. 80,597 Coll. A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,230 of Mr. Hirase's collection 



C misera inhabits the ocean coast of Hondo; C. misera var. 

 polynyma the opposite shore of the same island, and both C. misera 

 var. jiohjnyma and C, misera var. californica occur in southwestern 

 Kiusiu. 



FASOIOLARIID^. 



Peristernia ustulata var. luchuana I'ils. PI. XIX, fig. is. 



See p. 197. Type is No. 80,418 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 298 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



P. crocea Gray, scabrosa Reeve, xaidhostoma Nutt. and va- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



rious other forms of the Polynesiau chlorostoma Sowb. are all 

 markedly shorter shells. The variety of scabrosa figured by Ko- 

 belt (Conchyl. Cab. Tavbinella, PI. 23, f. 4, p. 96) may possibly 

 be the same, but it is nameless. 



BUCOINID.^. 



Chrysodomus intersculptus var. frater I'ils. PI. XX, fig. 21. 



See p. 197. Type is No. 80,379 Coll. A. K S. P., from No. 

 59 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Buccinum Hirasei n. sp. PI. XX, fig. 22. 



Shell solid, turreted, ^lartly covered with an olive-brown cuticle; 

 composed of about 8 whorls, which are convex at the periphery, 

 contracted below, and channeled above; the channel rather wide, 

 flat, bounded by a strongly elevated, slightly uneven carina. 

 Sculpture of faint growth- lines and a few low spiral cords, hardly 

 noticeable on the last whorl. Aperture slightly ovate, angular at 

 the termination of the carina, the basal notch not very deep. 

 Outer lip smooth, not thickened, somewhat expanded. Operculum 

 unknown. 



Length 104, diam. 43, longest axis of aperture 37 mm. 



Kizennuma, Rikuzen (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 556). 



This magnificent species is known to me by the single specimen 

 figured, which was collected dead. The outer lip is broken above 

 the middle, so that its true outline in that part is not given in the 

 figure. The cuticle has nearly all been lost, and the shell is over- 

 grown with Pulyzoa, Sjiirorbis, etc. 



The conspicuous channel at the suture is formed almost exactly 

 like that of Chnjsodomus pericoehlloii (Schrenk), a species occur- 

 i-ing with B. Hirasei at Kizennuma. The similarity is so great 

 that I have figui'ed Schrenk' s species for comparison. 



Chrysodomus pericochlion (Schrenk). PI. XX, fig. 23. 



The specimen here figured is longer and less inflated than the 

 original type of the species as figured by Schrenk. The dark 

 olive cuticle, wanting from the base of the shell, resembles that 

 of Buccinum Hirasei, and reminds one of the cuticle of such fresh- 

 water snails as Viviparus or Campeloma. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jul}', 



CERITHIID^. 

 CLAVA Martyii. 



This genus has been used to cover certain species formerly re- 

 ferred to Potamides, by Jousseaume in 1884,* and by Dollfus and 

 Dautzenberg in 1891),^ and for the group long known as Vertagus 

 by Dall in 1892/ The latter usage I find to be correct. In the 

 first volume of the Universal Co7icholof/ij Martyn introduces Clava 

 for the Cerithiidce known to him — a group which had i)reviously 

 been referred to Miirex by Linnaeus. He gives the following 

 species: 



Clava rugata Martyn (^ Cerithium lineatum Lam.). 



Otava herculea Martyn (= Cerithium eheidnum Brug. ). 



Clava maculata Martyn (= Cerithium maculosum auct. ). 



Clava rubus Martyn (= Cerithium echinatum Lam.). 



In following volumes of the same work, Martyn adds still other 

 forms of Clava. But it is obvious that a type for the genus must 

 be selected from species contained in his first volume. Now the 

 C. herculea of his list was made type of the genus Pyrazus by 

 Montfort in 1810,' under the name Pyrazus baudini Montf. C. 

 rubus falls into Cerithium as now restricted.' This leaves C. 

 maculata^ and C. rugata to bear the name Clava. The two species 

 are not closely related, and the latter may be considered type of 

 Martyn's genus. The name Vertagus, used for this group by many 

 authors, had no standing in binomial nomenclature until long after 

 the foundation of Clava. 



*Bull. Soc. Zool. de France, IX, 1884, p. 191. 



^ Journ. de CJonchyl., 1899, p. 2. 



^ Trana. Wagner Free Iristitute of Science, III, p. 290. 



' Conch. Syst., II, pp. 458, 459. 



8 CeritJiium was established by Bruguiere to contain species of Vertagus 

 and Potamides of authors, as well as the forms to which it is now restricted. 



Clava rubus of Martyn is the well-known Ccritldnm echinatum of La- 

 marck, which name it must replace. It is not the Cerithium rubus of English 

 monographers or of Tryon. who followed their error. Kohelt, in his mono- 

 graph in the new edition of Chemnitz's Conchylien Cabinet, p. 213, 

 quotes "C. rubus I'ilsbry, Manual, IX, p. 103, PL 23, fig. 9," as a synonym 

 of C. serratum Wood. I was not responsible for volume IX of the Man- 

 ual, my work beginning in volume X. With a "?" he also quotes "Clavus 

 rubus Martyn." But Martyn's Clava rubus was a totally different shell, 

 the C. echinatum of authors, a common Polynesian species. The failure on 

 the part of monographers to recognize this f;ict was due to want of care ; 

 neither the Universal Concltology nor Chenu's reprint have been consulted 

 by them. 



• C. maculata is the "C. maculosum" of English monographers and of 

 Tryon ; another curious error. 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



No species of the type proposed by Dr. Jousseaume and ^Messrs. 

 Dollfus and Dautzenberg was contained in Martyn's original list. 

 Their use of the name Clava is therefore without proper founda- 

 tion, while Ball's course is clearly supported by the evidence of 

 Martyn's original work. 



The Vertagus pfefferi of Dunker is not a Vertagus or Clava, but 

 a true Cerithlum, which I have received from Hirado, prov. Hizeu, 

 Japan (collected by Mr. Hirase). and from Hong Kong (B. 

 Schmacker). It is very close to C. granosum Kiener (not of 

 Searles Wood, 1848), which was described from the Red Sea, and 

 has been reported by Lischke (^Jap. Meeres-Conchyl., I, p. 68) 

 from Nagasaki. C. mitrceforme Sowb. seems to differ but little, if 

 at all, and C. eximium Sowb. and rubus of Sowerby and Tryon^* 

 may be the same thing. As there is great uncertainty about the 

 species of Kiener and Sowerby, I prefer to use the name given by 

 Dunker, based upon Japanese specimens, and with a good descrip- 

 tion and figures, for the Japanese form. 



Cerithium chemnitzianum n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 14, 15. 



Shell oblong-conic, strong, pale yellow, sparsely maculate and 

 densely dotted with rich brown. Sculptured with many very low 

 spiral cords which are weakly gi-anose, the grains irregularly alter- 

 nating brown and white; the upper two cords with stronger grains. 

 There are about 10 of these cords on the latter part of the last 

 whorl, 4 on the penultimate, and 3 on each of the earlier whorls. 

 The intervals between cords are densely striate spirally, the strise 

 usually very unequal, a median one generally larger, sometimes 

 nearly as large as the primary cords, and brown-dotted. Outlines 

 of the spire convex below, becoming straight above. Whorls 

 remaining 8 (the apex being eroded), the upper ones flattened, 

 the last three somewhat convex just below the sutures, the last 

 whorl having a very strong, tumid, oblique varix on the back, and 

 another less elevated one strengthening the outer lip. Aperture 

 slightly oblique, the base being a little advanced, white within; 

 outer hp strongly arched, almost forming a semicircle. Columellar 



^" That the English monographers and Tryon should have identified this 

 small species as Martyn's Clava rubus is inexplicable. Jliirex serratus 

 of Wood, in the Index Testaceologiciis, PI. 28, fig. 158, is a much reduced 

 and poor figure of the true O. rubus Martyn ; but C. serratum of the Eng- 

 lish and German monographs is quite another thing. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



lip calloused, bearing a strong entering callous ridge above. Canal 

 very short, deep and narrow. 



Length 27, diam. 13.5, longest axis of aperture 11.5 mm. 



Length 29, diam. 14, longest axis of aperture 11.5 mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 80,631 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 279 of Mr. Hirase' s collection. 



The sculpture is much more feeble than in C. morus or its imme- 

 diate allies, though some forms referable to morus resemble this 

 species in form. 



The figure of C. janellii var. in the zoology of the Astrolabe 

 d Zelee, Atlas, PL 24, fig. 22, resembles C. chemnitzianum some- 

 what, but differs iu the plicate spire. la the monographs by Reeve, 

 Tryon and Kobelt I fail to find anything much like the present spe- 

 cies. This shell is named for the author of the most extensive shell 

 iconography of the eighteenth century, a work of utility up to this 

 day. Would that A. Adams, a hundred years later, had defined 

 his species lialf as well! is one's thought on working with Japanese 

 mollusks. 



LITTORINID^. 



Echinella cumingi var. luchuana Pils. PI. XIX, fig. IG. 



See p. 198. Types are No. 70,902 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



This variety resembles Tectarius spinulosa Phil. (Abbild. Ill, 

 Littorina, PI. 6, f. 24), but that is imperforate, while this has an 

 open, cylindrical umbilicus. 



PYRAMIDELLID^. 

 Syrnola bacillum u. sp I'l. XXI, fig. 2,5. 



Shell slender, rod-like, marbled reddish-brown and white, with 

 a uarrow baud of alternate brown and white spots revolving mid- 

 way between sutures and on the middle of the upi)er surface of the 

 last w'horl, which has a white peripheral belt; this coloring 

 sometimes very faiut. Nuclear whorl standing obliquely on edge, 

 the very short spire iuclined downward; subsequent whorls 12^ or 

 13, flat, separated by deeply cut sutures, sculptured with faint 

 growth -lines and an impressed line revolving below the suture; 

 some very faint spirals showing elsewhere iu certain lights. Periph- 

 ery rounded, the base convex, subperforate. Aperture small, 

 narx'owly ovate; columella bearing a single strong fold. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Length 9.7, diam. 2, longest axis of aperture 2 mm.; diam. of 

 the upturned apical whorl .27 mm, 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hi rase). Types No. 80,605 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,239 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A very narrow species, with a particular style of coloration, 

 which at times, however, is very faint. The widely distributed 

 Syrnola brnnnea also occurs at the same locality. S. aciculata A. 

 Ad., of which I have compared specimens from Fiji, is a larger 

 species with more convex whorls. 



TURBONILLID^. 



Turbonilla varicifera Pils. PI. XXI, fig. 27. 



See p. 198. Types are No. 80,603 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,238 (part) of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



EULIMID^. 



Eulima dunkeriana n. sp. PI. XXI, Alt. 30. 



A glossy, white, straight species, remarkably thick above, being 

 thus somewhat cylindric. Whorls 9^, a trifle convex, the linear 

 suture being margined below (at least on ihe upper half of the 

 shell) with a translucent band (sometimes enclosing a white band), 

 one-fourth to one-third the width of the whorl, the lower margin 

 of which, in some lights, looks like the suture itself, though there 

 is no impression at that place. At the last half-whorl there is an 

 impressed varix-line ; another in liue with it is on the preceding 

 whorl, while the next earlier whorl shows a similar impression 

 somewhat in advance of these. On another specimen about 1 mm. 

 shorter, and evidently not full grown, there is on the last whorl a 

 single varix-line. The aperture is narrowly and acutely ovate; 

 lip simple, a little obtuse. Length 11.2, diam. 2.6, longest axis 

 of the aperture 3.2 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 80,637 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,222 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Close to E. philippiann (Dunker),'^ which was taken at Kama- 

 kura by Mr. Frederick Stearns; but E. dunkeriana dilfers in the 

 much broader foi-m. E. philipjnana has not been well figured. 

 A specimen from Kamakura before mo has an impressed varix-line 

 near the end of the penultimate whorl, and only falling a little 



^^ Erroneously referred to the genus Eulimella by Danker. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



short of corrcspoading with the position of the peristome; another 

 ou line with it is upon the preceding whorl; the next earlier whorl 

 has a varix-line near its beginning, almost a whorl being thus with- 

 out a varix, A young shell, 6 ram. long, has one varix-line on 

 the back of the penultimate whorl. E. j^hilippiana measures, alt. 

 10.2, diam. 2.15, longest axis of aperture 2.67 mm, Dunker gives 

 alt. 11, diam. 2 mm. for the type. 



Evidently these species have resting stages at irregular intervals, 

 and the varix-lines are inconstant in position and number. 



Both of these species are remarkable for the thickness of the 

 upper part of the spire, though this feature is more exaggerated in 

 E. dunkeriana. 



Eulima luchuana n. sp. PI. XXI, fig. 2i. 



Shell white and glossy, conic, curved slightly to the right, that 

 margin being about straight while the left side is a little convex, 

 regularly tapering, 9^ whorls remaining (the apex being decollate), 

 slightly convex, the penultimate whorl having an impressed varix- 

 line at its last sixth, the preceding whorl with one on line with 

 the peristome, the next earlier whorl with a varix-line correspond- 

 ing in position to that on the penultimate whorl; the varices thus 

 being all on the right or incurved side. Apei'tui*e ovate-acuminate, 

 the lip a little obtuse. 



Alt. 12, diam. 3.85, longest axis of aperture 4.15 mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 80,628 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,275 of Mr. Hirase' s collection. 



The aperture is longer than in E. nitidula A. Ad., which, 

 though a smaller species, is described as having 11 whorls. 



Assiminea angustata n. sp- 



Shell minute, imperforate, or nearly so, long ovate-conic, solid, 

 red-brown, glossy and smooth. Whorls about 5i, rather flattened, 

 the last one convex. Aperture small, rounded-ovate, oblique; 

 peristome simple, the columellar and parietal margins somewhat 

 thickened. Length 3, diam. 1.7, longest axis of aperture 1.2 mm. 



Rishiri, Kitami (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 1,277 of marine mollusk 

 list). 



Unusually lengthened for Assiminea, but with the color aud 

 texture of that genus, though it may possibly be Rissoid. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



NERITID^. 

 Nerita martensiana n. sp. 



Shell globose, small, solid, rather bright sulphur yellow, paler 

 and somewhat mottled with gray or blackish toward the aperture. 

 Surface dull, sculptured with low, rather coarse spii'al cords, about 

 15 on the last whorl, the upper one appressed against the preceding 

 whorl. Spire short, whorls about 3, the last a little depressed below 

 the suture, which is bordered below by a somewhat more promi- 

 nent cord. Aperture semicircular, yellow or Avhitish; lip-rib 

 smooth, with a small tubercle above, and another well within near 

 the base of the columella. Columellar area white or yellowish, flat 

 and smooth, the outer border well defined; edge of columella 

 straight, with two or three low, subobsolete teeth, the upper one 

 strongest. 



Alt. 10, diam. 9.5 mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 80,489 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 729 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Small as this species is, the specimens are apparently adult. The 

 smooth columellar area, wnth well-defined outer margin, weak 

 deuticulatiou and smooth rib within the outer lip are its more 

 prominent characters. I find no species agreeing with these sj^eci- 

 mens in the monographs, the best of which is that by Prof, von 

 Martens in the new edition of Chemnitz. 

 Nerita helicinoides var. tristis nov. 



Shell black with some white spots along the basal margin, and 

 sometimes a few angular pink and white spots elsewhere. Colu- 

 mella three-notched in the middle; area smooth, yellow-tinted in 

 the middle; lip-rib weakly crenulate, a small denticle near its 

 upper end. 



Alt. 13|, diam. 11^ mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 218). Types No. 80,406 

 CoU. A. N. S. P. 



This variety is like tne typical form in the deuticulatiou of 

 columella and lip. In var. Icevilabris Pils. the lip-rib is smooth 

 throughout, and the columellar denticles very weak; these charac- 

 ters being constant in a large number of specimens. 



N. helicinoides is apparently closely related to the small form of 

 y. striata Burrow described by Prof, von Martens in the new edi- 

 tion of Chemnitz, p. 39, PI. 7, figs. 19, 20. 




398 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jul}', 



TROCHID^. 



Cantharidus hirasei Pils. Page 199. PI. XXI, fig. 32. 

 Cantharidus bisbalteatus Pils. Page 199. PI. XXI, fig. 33. 

 Clanculus gemmulifer Pils. Page 200. PI. XXI, fig. 34. 

 ClaECulus hizenensis Pils. Page 20i. PI. XXI, fig. 35. 



Some of A. Adams' blanket "descriptions" might cover these 

 species, but none of them indicate the specific characters of either 

 of them. The sane judgment of scientific malacologists now de- 

 mands that a description shall describe. 



TURBINID^. 



Leptothyra rubra var. laevicostata nov. 



Shell depressed-globose, coral-red, with pale and red dots alter- 

 nating on the ribs. Whorls 4^, the last deeply descending anteri- 

 orly. Sculpture of about 8 rather strong, almost smooth spiral 

 ribs above and upon the I'ounded peripheral region, with one or 

 several fine threads in some of the interspaces; 8 to 10 smaller, 

 closer smooth ribs upon the rather flattened base. Alt. hardly 4, 

 diam. 5 mm. 



Northern shore of province Tango, western side of Hondo (M. 

 R. Gaines). Types No. 70,704 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



Specimens from Mr. Hirase, taken at Hirado, Hizen, vary 

 from coral-red to almost purple, and some of them are rather 

 larger with the .spire elevated, the largest measuring alt. 5.2, 

 diam. 5.5 mm. 



This form difiers from L. rubra (Dkr. ) in the smoothness of the 

 spiral ribs, which are not rougher than in the Mediterranean L. san- 

 (juinea (L. ), and in the smaller size, rubra measuring, alt. scarcely 

 6, diam. 6 to 6^ mm. In L. sangalnea the ribs of the base are 

 not noticeably smaller, as they are in all of the Japanese Lejito- 

 thyras I have seen. Perhaps this variety is what Dunker and 

 others have reported from Japan as sanrjainea L. 



AOMuEID^. 

 Acmaea heroldi var. signata Pils. PL XIX, figs. 10, 11. 



See p. 202. Types No. 80,497 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 748 of Mr. Hirase' s coJiection. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 399 



SOLENIDuE. 

 Solen roseomaculatus n. sp. PL XIX, lig. 13. 



Shell small, thin, moderately curved, the upper aud lower mar- 

 gins parallel, both ends truncated, with rather rounded angles; 

 compressed, open at both ends, glossy and smooth except for faint 

 growth -sti'ite. White with very irregular, more or less confluent pur- 

 plish-roseate maculation throughout, the spots coarser toward the 

 distal end. Beaks roseate. Anterior end obliquely truncate, the 

 margins narrowly expanded or flaring, thickened within. A single 

 prominent, erect tooth in each valve, that in the right valve ante- 

 rior to the other and compressed, that in the left triangular, being 

 buttressed posteriorly. 



Length 31, alt. 6.3, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen, western Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 

 80,565 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 1,0-14 of Mr. Hirase' s col- 

 lection. 



This rose-variegated little Solen is curved like an Ensis, and has 

 some similarity to S. pidus Philippi,'- S. vaginoides Pbil.^^ non 

 Lam. = S. j^hillppkums Dkr. " and S. asperstis Dkr.'* Solen pic- 

 tus is comparatively shorter and markedly inflated or cyliudric, while 

 the present Japanese species is strongly compressed. *S', pldlippianiis 

 measures 66 by a little over 10 mm. (" 2" 8'" lang, und wenig 

 iiber b'" hoch"), and is thus a narrower shell, and it is more 

 attenuated anteriorly, with smeared coloration, according to the 

 figure. S. aspersua is decidedly more slender, and anteriorly 

 below it is more square-cornered. The proportions of the three 

 species are as follows, the altitude aud diameter being compared 

 with the length: 



Lcii.ijth. Alt. Diam. 



S. roseomaculatus, 1 I ^ of the length. 



S. jihilippianus, 1 — }. " " 



S aspersus, 1 ]■ — -^ " " 



S. jnctm, 1 I i " 



'^Philippi, ZeUschr.f. Malal:, 18iS, p. 17 i. Habitat nuknowii. It has 

 not been figiired, to my knowletlge. 



^^Philippi, Ahhild. v. Beschreib, etc., I, Solen, PI. 1, fig. 3. From ;Xew 

 Holland. 



'* Dunker, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond , 1861, p. 420, under S. aspersus. 



'^ Dunker, I. c, Australia. The type has been figured in Conch. Icon., 

 XIX, Solen, PI. 7, fig. 'iZa. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



PETRICOLID^. 

 Petricola cyclus Pils. PI. XIX, figs. 3, 4. 



Seep. 204. Types are No. 80,580 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,199 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It has .some merely super- 

 ficial resemblance to P. typica Jonas. 



Petricola cyclus var. sculpturata Pils. PI. xrx, fig. 7. 



See p. 205. Types are No. 10,130 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 Puttalam, Ceylon. 



VENERID^. 

 Venus Hirasei PHs. PI. XIX, flg l ; PI. XX, flg. 20. 



See p. 205. Types No. 80,447 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 492 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It is curiously like the Panamic 

 T^. columbiensis Sowb., but ditiers in having fewer ribs separated 

 by much wider intervals, and a deeper, narrower pallial sinus. 

 The cardinal teeth are more deeply bifid than in V. columhiensis. 

 The largest specimen I have seen measures, length 52, alt. 44, 

 diam. 33|^ mm. It is from Oyama, Tsushima. 



Tapes platyptycha Piis. PI. XIX, fig. 6. 



Page 206. Types are No. 81,218 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,196 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Tapes phenax Pils. PI. XIX, fig. 5. 



Page 207. T^-pes are No. 80,436 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 432 of Mr. Hirase's collection 



DONACIDuE. 



Donax kiusiuensis Pils. PI. XX, fig. 19. 



Page 207. Types are No. 80,505 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 847 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



TELLINID^. 

 Tellina (Merisca) pristiformis ". sp. PI. XIX. fig. 8. 



Shell equilateral, subtriangular, slightly inequivalve, the poste- 

 rior end being bent to the right; moderately convex, solid, white. 

 Surface dull and lustreless, sculptured with densely crowded fine, 

 concentric lamelhe, a little stronger and more spaced toward the 

 two ends; the intervals sculptured with fine, subobsolete, radial 

 striae, which are fainter in the middle, and often hardly percepti- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



ble anywhere, even with a lens. Beaks somewhat prominent, 

 small and in contact. Anterior end rounded, the slope above 

 straight; posterior slope straight or slightly convex, finely serrate; 

 the posterior end narrowly subrostrate and bi angular, the right 

 valve having two prominent posterior keels, the space between tliem 

 concave, left valve with one posterior keel, a narrow furrow close 

 before it, with a slighter second depression, the basal margin well 

 rounded, ascending and sometimes slightly sinuous behind. Lunule 

 lanceolate, very deeply cut, bounded by acute ridges, that of the 

 right valve rising well above the left, and with a wider excavation. 

 Area also deeply excavated, bounded by keels, the ligament promi- 

 nent. Interior white, the hinge strong, with two cardinal teeth in 

 each valve, the left anterior tooth and the right posterior bifid. 

 Left valve without laterals, right valve with low, distant anterior 

 and posterior lateral teeth. Hinge-line straight behind the beak, 

 concave in front. Pallial sinus very large, reaching to within a 

 millimeter or two of the anterior adductor scar, confluent with the 

 palUal line below for about half its length. Scars of the cruciform 

 muscle distinct. 



Length 38, alt. 29.5, diam. 11.5 mm. 



Inland Sea of Japan. Types No. 71,029 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



This species is closely related to T. pridis Lam. and T. concen- 

 trica Gld, It has a Avider lunule than the former, its bounding 

 keels without the irregularity, * ' saw ' ' or serration seen in T. 

 prisfis. The posterior area is more deeply excavated, the posterior 

 keel of the right valve is stronger, and the end is much more bent 

 to the right. The hinge-plate is wdder, and the anterior lateral 

 tooth is further removed from the cardinals. Finally, the dorsal 

 slopes are steeper, meeting at a smaller angle, and hence the whole 

 outline is more triangular. In T. concentrica Gld. (Fiji Islands) 

 the form is more elongate, the lunule and posterior area far less 

 impressed, and the interior is more glossy, with shallower, less dis- 

 tinct muscular scars, and the shell is thinner. T. diaphana Desh. 

 difiers by having the pallial sinus abut against the anterior adduc- 

 tor scar, according to Deshayes' description. T. siamensis v. 

 Martens is a longer, less high species, by the description. It has 

 not been figured, so far as I can learn, and is doubtfully distinct 

 from T. diaphana Desh. 



26 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



ANATINID^. 

 Anatina impura I'ils- Pi- XIX, tig. 0. 



rage 208. Types are Nos. 68,536 and 70,812 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



LIMIDiE. 



Lima Mans var. hirasei Pils. PI. XIX, fig. 12. 



Page 209. Types No. 80,525 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 901 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Closely allied to L. Mans Gm. of Europe, but the sculpture is 

 finer, the gape of both ends less widely open, and the anterior rib 

 inside is not so strong. 



ARCID^. 

 Area nipponensis Pils. PI. XIX, fig. 2. 



See p. 209. Types are No. 79,009 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



Land and Fresh-^vater Species. 



Buliminus reinianus var. hokkaidonis nov. 



Similar to reinianus except in being shorter and broader, with 

 very obtuse apex, the upper part of the spire broader. Whorls 8. 

 Length 23, diam. above aperture 8, longest axis of aperture 9 mm. 



Kayabe and Shukunobe, prov. Ojima, Hokkaido. 



Typical B. reinianus is not known from Hokkaido Island. I 

 now believe that it will be difficult, if indeed practicable or desirable, 

 to distinguish extorris or omiensis as races distinct from the variable 

 reinianus, though typically the forms are separable. There is also 

 a rather small and more striate form of the species occurring at 

 Okinoshima and some other places in Shikoku Island, but I have 

 not seen enough specimens to be satisfied that it requires varietal 

 distinction. 



HELICID^. 



Mandarina mandarina var. ponderosa nov. 



Shell large and very heavy, reddish-brown or purple-black with 

 a light umbilical patch; whorls 5^, the last one distinctly carinated 

 at the periphery. Surface coarsely decussate, the impressed spiral 

 lines being much stronger than in the typical form. Alt. 21, 

 diam. 28 ram.; alt. 19, diam. 26 mm. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Ogasawara (Bouiu) Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 

 80,812 Coll. A. N. S., from 4676 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



As yet we know nothing of the distribution of species on the 

 several islands of this little group, the investigation of which will 

 be of the greatest interest. We look to Mr. Hirase to throw light 

 upon it. 



Trishoplita daoostag var. awajiensis nov. 



Shell depressed-conoicZ, thin, hardly glossy, corneous with a 

 faint brown tint, often in streaks, paler or a little whitish below 

 the sutures. Spires somewhat elevated; whorls 5f, the last 

 obtusely subangular in front. Sculpture of slight, rather irregular 

 growth-strine, a strong lens showing some almost obsolete spiral striae 

 near the umbilicus. Aperture oblique, short-oval, almost round, 

 a little excised by the parietal wall. Peristome thin, narrowly 

 expanded and subreflexed. Alt. 6.2, diam. 9 mm. ; width of 

 umbilicus about 1 mm. 



Anaya, Awaji Island (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 6415). 



This form is duller, more couoidal, with the last whorl more 

 depressed than T. goodwini var. kyotoensis. It is smaller than 

 T. dacoske, with the aperture less rounded. It is the first Tris- 

 lioiilita known from Awaji Island. 

 Trishoplita goodwini var. strigata nov. 



Shell similar in general characters to T. goodwini, but rather 

 faintly streaked obliquely with brown on a whitish corneous 

 ground, usually whitish below the suture. Finely obliquely 

 striate, and densely decussate by close spirals. Whorls 5f to 6. 

 Alt. 9^, diam. 13, width of umbilicus 1^ mm. 



Hirado, Hizen, in western Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase). Type, 

 No. 78,844 Coll. A. N. S. P., No. 344 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form was recognized as somewhat ditferent from the typical T. 

 goodidni of Hondo, when received from Mr. Hirase about a year 

 ago; but I did not then think it desirable to distinguish it by 

 name. Since such forms of goodidni as tosana and daeostce have 

 beeti so distinguished, it would seem advisable to recognize this 

 also. Upon the whole, it is well to have names for these sub- 

 species, which have become differentiated in various areas of the 

 empire. T. goodwini var. strigata differs from tosana and daeostce 

 by its decussate surface. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



ZONITID^. 

 Kaliella subcrenulata n. sp. 



Shell narrowly perforate, depressed-trochiform, pale brown, 

 somewhat trauslucent. Sculpture of very flue, close, thread-like 

 stride and subobsolete spiral stria; the base smooth. Spire conic, 

 the apex obtuse. Whorls 4, nearly flat, the last acutely carinate 

 in the middle, the carina smooth-edged; base very convex. Aper- 

 ture narrow, somewhat rhombic; peristome simple. Alt. 1.5, 

 diara. 2.4 mm. 



Kochi, Tosa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Similar to K. cremdata Gude, but much more depressed. It 

 occurred with specimens of K. cremdata (Gude), and an elevated 

 variety of K. midfi^olvis Pils. 



K. ruida Pils. is a larger and more coarsely sculptured but 

 evidently allied species. 



Kaliella lioderma n. sp. 



Shell perforate, pyramidal with flattened base, obtuse apex and 

 straight lateral outlines; pale yellowish-corneous. Whorls 7, 

 rather convex, the last acutely carinate, somewhat convex below. 

 Surface glossy, smooth except for slight growth-strije. Aperture 

 basal, rhombic, nearly twice as wide as high; peristome simple, the 

 margins remote, the columellar margin reflexed. Alt. 2.5, diam. 

 2.2 mm. 



Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



More elevated than K. cremdata, and distinguished by its plain, 

 smooth surface. 



Kaliella harimensis n. sp. 



Shell perforate, obtusely conoidal, fragile, amber colored, trans- 

 lucent. Whorls 5, Comdex, slowly increasing, the nucleus rather 

 large;, last whorl obtusely subangular in front, elsewhere rounded 

 at the periphery, the base convex. Sculpture of extremely fine, 

 densely crowded, thread-like stria3 above, giving the surface a some- 

 what silken lustre; almost obsolete on the glossy base, which shows 

 weak spiral stride near the middle. Aperture truncate-cresceutie, 

 the peristome thin, a little reflexed at the perforation. Alt. 2, 

 diam. 2h mm. 



Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 655). 



This species is much more depressed than the allied K. pagodu- 

 hides Gude. It has not the peripheral keel of K. fraterna Pils. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



REALTID^. 



Omphalotropis japonicus n. sp. 



Shell narrowly umbilicate, acutely ovate-conic, rather thin, 

 yellowish brown; surface glossy and smooth. Spire straightly 

 conic, the apex rather acute. Whorls 6, convex, the last with a 

 strong basal keel around the umbilicus. Aperture slightly 

 oblique, ovate, the outer and basal margins of the peristome a 

 trifle expanded, columellar margin reflexed. Length 5.8, diam- 

 eter 3.5, length of aperture 2.5 mm. 



Kashiwashima, Tosa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 588). 



This is, I believe, tlie first Omphalotropls found in Japan. 



AMNICOLID^. 



Bithynia striatula var. japonica nov. 



Shell pale amber tinted or corneous, glossy, similar to B. striatula 

 of China, but differing in sculpture, the spiral ridges being much 

 stronger; 3 or 4 large and irregularly spaced ones above the peri- 

 phery, those on the base smaller and closer. Alt. 10 (specimens 

 with the early whorls lost by erosion), diam. 6.5 mm.; longest 

 axis of aperture 5 mm. 



Manabe, Hidachi (type locality), and Osaka (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Types No. 80,683 Coll. A. N. S., from No. 152 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



Specimens from Osaka have less strong sculpture than those from 

 the province Hidachi, though it is still stronger than in any Chinese 

 specimens of B. striatula in the series before me. The peristome 

 is rather less expanded, too, though well thickened in adults, and 

 either black (Manabe) or pale (Osaka). B. striatula has already 

 been reported from Japan by Prof, von Martens,^'' who in ltt60 

 found it at Yokohama, on the muddy bank of the small river, at 

 the first bridge, in quite fresh water. I suppose it was this strongly 

 sculptured form which he found. The Vega Expedition collected 

 shells identified by Westerlund as B. striatula at Jokogava (near 

 Tokyo), and at Lake Biwa (Vega Exp., IV, p. 182). In China 

 the species is widely diffused, from the Yangtse to the Amur drain- 

 ages; and Pere Heude" has split it into some four species. Of 



i« Sitzungsber. nnturf. Freunde zu Berlin, 1877, p. 114. B. striatula 

 was described from Clnisan, as Paludina (BiiJiinia) striatula Bens., Journ. 

 Asiat. Soc. Beng., XXIV, 1885, p. 131. Schmacker found it at Shanghai. 



1' Memoires concernant V Hist. Nat. de l' Empire Ohinois, pp. 171, 172. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julj, 



these his B. chine)isis seems to me to be typical B. striatxda, while B. 

 spiralis is a more slender, B. scalaris a stouter form, perhaps not 

 more than varietally distinct. B. striatula Bens, of Heude is a 

 strongly keeled form, certainly not the typical striatula of Benson. 

 His identification of it was possibly due to a remark of von Mar- 

 tens in Jahrb. D. Mai Ges., 11, 1875, p. 133. 



I have no great faith in the distinctness of any of these sup- 

 posed species ; but if several Chinese forms are to be distinguished, 

 the Japanese shells evidently deserve at least varietal rank. They 

 are nearer B. striatula Heude non Benson than to any other of 

 the Chinese varieties. 



SPH^RIIDJE. 

 Sphserium inutilis n. sp. 



Shell oval, much inflated, thin, equilateral, grayish-brown, with 

 a pale basal zone; glossy, minutely striate; anterior end curved 

 in a semicircle; posterior end a little more obtuse, though still 

 well curved. Beaks small, projecting, " calyculate, " or tipped 

 with a distinctly demarked protoconch. Interior bluish-white; 

 cardinal teeth subobsolete, extremely compressed, parallel with the 

 hinge-line, divided in the right valve, single in the left; lateral 

 teeth moderately strong, double in the right, single in the left 

 valve. Length 10, alt. 8.6, diam. 6.2 mm. 



Nishigo, Uzen (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Three species of Si^hceriuni are now known from Japan : »S. 

 jcfponicum Westerlund, ^' S. heterodon Pilsbry," and the present 

 sj)ecies. All belong to the subgenus Cahjeulina. S. jajjonicum is 

 an elongate " subtrapeziform " species. S. inutilis differs from 

 S. heterodon in having higher beaks, a more curved hinge-line, 

 rounded ends and it is more globose. 



No Pisidium or Cyrena is yet known from Japan proper, although 



the latter genus occurs in the middle group of the Loo Choo 



Islands. 



CYRENID^. 

 Corbicula sadoensis n. sp. 



Shell triangular-oval, moderately inflated, solid; glossy, nearly 



black in adults, sculptured with very close, irregularly raised and 



^* Calyculina japonica West., Nachr''bl. d. D. Malak. Ges., 1883, p. 58 

 (April); Vega Exp., IV, p. 216, PI. 6, fig. 31, from Jokogava, near Tokyo. 



*» Cat(d. Mar. Moll. Jap., p. 159, PI. 3, figs. 15, 16, 17, from Hizen, in 

 Kiusiu. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



thread-like concentric striae. Beaks moderately raised and full, 

 deeply eroded in adults. Interior whitish, or light violet outside 

 of the pallial line. Hinge rather narrow, the cardinal teeth 

 slightly grooved at their summits ; anterior and posterior laterals of 

 equal length, single in the left, double in the right valve. Length 

 33, ale. 27, diam. 18 mm. 



Sado, Japan (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



It fills me with sadness to add another Corbicula to the Japanese 

 fauna, but these specimens cannot without violence be referred to 

 any of those known. C. martensi Clessin is perhaps the nearest, 

 but aadoeusis is more transverse, the lateral teeth diverge at a wider 

 angle, and the stripe are far closer. The very close, comparatively 

 fine striation is the chief differential character of the species, 

 distinguishing it from all the other forms. 



Corbicula awajiensis n. sp. 



Shell oval, compressed, the diameter about half and the alt. 

 three-fourths the length, bright yellowish green, with buff spots- 

 and patches toward the beaks; strongly and regularly ribbed con- 

 centrically. Beaks rather low, not projecting much, eroded and 

 deep violet. iSTearly equilateral, the anterior end sometimes slightly 

 narrower, the two ends about equally rounded, upper and lower 

 margins equally and similarly curved. Interior dark violet, with 

 a darker, often light-bordered spot under the beaks. Hinge deli- 

 cate, the cardinal teeth small; anterior and posterior laterals of 

 about equal length, somewhat curved, very strongly crenulate, 

 double in the right, single in the left valve. Length 16, alt. 12, 

 diam. 8^ mm. 



Noda, Awaji (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



The valve-margins \newed from within are seen to form a sym- 

 metrical oval figure, the upper and lower borders having almost 

 exactly the same curvature, and the anterior and posterior ends 

 beiug about equal. There is no suggestion of the subtriangular 

 shape of most Japanese species of Corbicula. The beaks are low 

 and the sculpture strong and regular. It is a small species, the 

 first known from Awaji Island, and seems quite distinct from any 

 other. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES XIX, XX, XXI. 



Plate XIX (figures natural size), Fig. 1. — Vemis Idrasei. pp. 205, 400. 



Fig. 2. — Area nipponensis, pp. 209, 403. 



Figs. 3, 4. — Petricoln cyclus, pp. 204, 400. 



Fig. 5. — Tapes plienax, p. 207. 



Fig. 6. — Tapes platyptycJui, p. 206. 



Fig. 7. — Peiricola cyclus var. scuJpturata, p. 205 (Ceylon). 



Fig. 8. — Tellina pristiformis, p. 400. 



Fig. 9. — Anatina wipura, pp. 208, 402. 



Figs. 10, 11. — Acmcea heroldi v?kv. n(jiiat<t, p. 202. 



Fig. 12. — Lima Mans var. hirasei, pp. 209, 402. 



Fig. 13. — Solen roseomaculatus, p. 399. 



Figs. 14, 15. — CeritMum chemnitziaiium, p. 393. 



Fig. 16. — Echinella cumingi hichuana, pp. 198, 394. 



Fig. 17. — Euthria Jiokkaidonis, p. 389. 



Fig. 18 — Peristernia tistulata var. luchuana, pp. 197, 390. 



Plate XX (fig. 19 much enlarged, the others natural size), Fig. 19. — 

 Donax kiusiuensis, p. 400. 

 Fig. 20. — Venus hirasei, p. 400. 



Fig. 21. — G?irysodomus intersculptus \a.T. frater, pp. 197, 391. 

 Fig. 22. — Buccinmn Jiirasei, p. 391. 

 Fig. 23. — Chrysodomus pericocJilion, p. 391. 



Plate XXI (figures much enlarged). Fig. 24. — Tritonidea submen- 

 keana, p. 387. 

 Fig. 25. — Syrnola bacillum, p. 394. ^ 



Fig. 26. — Daphnella frag His var. artieulata, p. 365. 

 Fig. 27. — Turhonilla taricifera, pp. 198, 395. 

 Fig. 28. — Mitra vanattai, p. 387. 

 Fig. 29. — Eulima luchuana, p. 396. 

 Fig. 30. — Eulima dunkcriana, p. 395. 

 Fig. 31. — Mitra hizenensis, p. 386. 

 Fig. 32. — Cantharidus hirasei, p. 199. 

 Fig. 33. — Vanthctriilus hislalteatus, p. 199. 

 Fig. 34. — Clanculus (jemmulifer, p. 200. 

 Fig. 35. — Clanculus hizenensis, pp. 201, 398. 

 Fig. 36. — Columhella misera Y&x. calif arnica, p. 390. 

 Figs. 37, 38. — Colmnhella miser a, p. 389. 

 Fig. 39. — Columhella misera var. polynyma, pp. 196, 390. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 409 



THE LAND MOLLUSKS OF THE LOO CHOO ISLANDS: OLAUSILIID^. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Seven or eight years ago, at the time of my first studies upon 

 Japanese moUusks, only two species of Claunlia were known from 

 the Loo Choo Islands: C. vcdida Pfeiffer/ described from speci- 

 mens collected by Largilliert, and C. ^jrtec/ara Gould,'- collected by 

 William Stimpson, naturalist of the U. S. North Pacific Explor- 

 ing Expedition, under Commanders Ringgold and Rodgers. 



Mr. Frederick Stearns brought a third species, taken on Oki- 

 nawa, which I described in 1894 as C. Stearmii,^ and a fourth was 

 sent in 1900 by Mr. Hirase, C. hjperoptyx,* from the same 

 island. 



Two other species, C. BernarcUi Pfr. and C. ptychoGliila Bttg., 

 supposed to be from Siam and China respectively, seem from their 

 characters to be so near Loo Chooan species that I think their 

 formerly assigned habitats were probably erroneous, and that both 

 really came from the Loo Choo Islands. Acting upon this 

 hypothesis, I provisionally include them in the following account. 



Through the researches conducted by my esteemed correspondent, 

 Mr. Y. Hirase, the number of species known from these beautiful 

 and interesting islands has now been increased to eleven, ° not 

 counting the two species of doubtful provenance alluded to above. 



Up to this time w^e have received species from only three islands : 

 Yayeyama in the southwestern group, Okinawa or Great Luchu in 



1 Zeitselir.f. Malak., 1849, p. 106 ; Mon. Hel. Viv>., III. p. 591. Kiister, 

 Conchyl. Cah., Clausilia, PI. 23, figs. 1-3, figures of Pfeiffer's type. 



■"Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., VI, p. 425, February, 1859 ; Otia Coneh., p. 

 103. The name prcBcktm being preoccupied in Clausilia, Pfeiffer changed 

 it to C. excellem, Jour, de ConcJiyl., p. 263 (1361), basing the new name 

 on Gould's description. 



^Nautilus, VIII, p. 47 (August, 1894); Catal. Mar. Moll. Jap., Appen- 

 dix, p. 163, PI. 1, fig. 12. 



* These Proceedings, 1900, p. 446, PI. XIV, figs. 12-14. 



' This includes the species of Oshima, as this island belongs both geo- 

 graphically and faunally to the Loo Choo group. Being politically a part of 

 Kagoshima Ken or prefecture, it is not usually considered by the Japanese 

 to be one of the Loo Choo group, which in ordinary parlance includes merely 

 the Central and Further groups of islands, belonging to Okinawa Ken. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



the centx'al group, aud Oshima in the northeastern group. There 

 can be no doubt that when other islands are explored many more 

 species will be brought to light, and our zoogeographic knowledge 

 correspondingly expanded. 



The known species fall into five subgenera or sections: Stereo- 

 phcBdusa, Luchuphcediisa, Hemiphcedusa, Tyrannophcedusa (/) and 

 Zaptyx. Of these, the section Luchupluedusa, comprising about 

 half the species now known, has been found nowhere but on these 

 islands. Zaptyx extends into the southernmost provinces of 

 Kiusiu, in the neighborhood of Kagoshima Bay; and probably 

 borne by the " Kuro Shi wo " has reached Hachijo, an islet a 

 hundred miles off Izu province; but a Loo Chooan origin of the 

 group seems probable. Stereophtulusa and Hemiph(Edusa range 

 further, being common throughout Japan, and the latter group is 

 widespread on che Chinese mainland ; but the species of the Loo 

 Choo Islands belong to a fecial group of Hemiphcedusa which has 

 not been found elsewhere. The single species referred doubtfully 

 to Tyrannophcedusa has no close relatives, but seems nearer ta 

 Japanese than to any Chinese species known to me. The sections 

 EiLphcedusa and Megalophcedusa, so characteristic of Japan, are 

 wanting in the Loo Choos, so far as present information goes; and 

 Relnia has not been found. So much for the distribution of the 

 groups. Descending to species, we find not one common to the Loo 

 Choo Islands and any other land. 



The general affinities of the dciusilia fauna, we may conclude, 

 are closest with Japan, though the endemic element is so strong 

 that no relationship at all intimate can be claimed. No character- 

 istic Formosau forms of Chtusilia have been found in the Loo 

 Choo group. 



Section STEREOPH^DUSA Bttg. 



Clausilia valida Pfr. 



Originally described from the " Liew Kiew " Islands, this 

 species is known from Okinawa Island only. It has been collected 

 there by the Japanese collectors sent by Dr. Adolph Fritze in 

 1891, by Mr. Frederick vStearns about the same time, aud has also 

 been taken by Mr. Hirase's collector. The typical form is uniform 

 brownish yellow. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



The chestnut- banded form with the coai'se sculpture of the type 

 has been named var. fasciata by ISIr. E. R. Sykes/' 



Another banded variety may be called var, perfasciata. It is 

 similar to C. valida fasciata Sykes, but larger, the broad purpie- 

 l^rowu band more strongly contrasted with the whitish or pale buff 

 bands above and below it; aperture longer, more piriform. The 

 sculpture is perceptibly finer than in valida. The types of this 

 form are from the province Kuuchan, Okinawa Island (No. 633 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection). 



A third form of the species, var. striaiella, nov., has the color- 

 ing of var. fasciata, but darker on the last two whorls, with the 

 same rather wide aperture, dusky purplish within; but the surface 

 is far more finely striated, there being fully twice as many stride as 

 there are in valida. The size is about the same. 



Length 28, diam, 6 mm., 71 whorls remaining. 



Length 25-j, diam. 61 mm., 61 whorls remaining. 



The types ^are 79,116 Cdl. A. N. S. P., from 462 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection, labeled " Loo Choo." 

 Clausilia Stearnsii Pilsl^ry. 



The types were taken on Okinawa by the collector sent by Mr. 

 Frederick Stearns in 1891-2. They measui*e, length 26 to 31, 

 diam. 5 mm. Specimens sent this year from Yayeyama by Mr. 

 Hirase (No. 622) measure 26-28 by 5 mm. Others sent from 

 " Loo Choo" are more slender, length 25-251, diam. 4^ mm., 

 with 12 whorls and a less distinct lunella than the tyjDes. 



C. Stearnsii is very distinct by its receding inferior lamella and 

 the development of a lunella, both being characters unlike most 

 other species of Stereopihczdusa. 



Section LUCHUPHiEDUSA nov. 



Clausilium wide, trunmte or notched distaUy, and with a thick- 

 ened lobe or finger-like process on Ihe columellar side of the apex, 

 standing at nearly a right angle with the body of the plate. 



Shell fusiform, the right margin of the peristome usually crenate, 

 outer margin excavated above to form a sinulus; superior lamella 

 marginal, projecting, continuous with the long spiral lamella; 



^ The Coachologist, II, p. 118. Figure 52 of Sowerby's monograph in the 

 Conchologia Iconica, XX, evidently is intended to represent one of the 

 specimens mentioned by Mr. Sykes. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



inferior lamella strongly spiral within, calloused below ; subcolu- 

 mellar lamella dilated adjacent to the very long and strong lower 

 palatal plica, which is united with the lunella, when that is pres- 

 ent; principal plica long; upper palatal plica developed, sometimes 

 coalescent with the lunella. 



The shell in this section is similar to that of the La-oup of C. 

 ptychochila in general characters, but differs in the dilation of the 

 subcohimellar lamella and in the much higher, simple spiral plate 

 of the inferior lamella within the last whorl. Like the group 

 mentioned, its peculiarities are an exaggeration of the platydera 

 group of HemipjJuvdusa, which may be looked upon as a sort of 

 unspecialized branch of the common stock. The clausilium, how- 

 ever, is so peculiar and unlike any Phtedusoid group hitherto 

 known, that the erection of a new section is reriuired. The 

 lamellse and plic?e are all very strongly developed within, and the 

 former are unusually long, passing the ventral position. 



Luchuphcedusa has much in common with the section Emargina- 

 ria Bttg. of the German upper Miocene, in which a similar emar- 

 ginate or notched clausilium and the same interlamellar plication is 

 developed ; but the Miocene forms retain a primitiv e structure of 

 the palatal region, where several plicae are developed, while Luehu- 

 phcednsa is very highly specialized there. The resemblance is pai'- 

 tially due to convergent evolution. 



Key to species of Luc hup heed iisa, by external characters. 



1. — Right margin of the peristome crenulate: 



a. — Aperture narrow, the sinulus strongly developed; princi- 

 , pal plica reaching to the lip; last whorl strongly com- 



pressed (Oshima). 

 b. — Subcolumellar lamella wholly immersed (though the 

 lip is crenate at its position), . . . C. oshinue. 

 b'. — iSubcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, 



C. pseudoshimce. 



a'. — Aperture moderately wide, of noi'mal proportions, piri- 



form-ovate; principal plica immersed, as usual. 



b. — Rather large, the broad right lip deeply plicate; 



length about 23 mm. (Okinawa), C. callistochila. 



b'. — Small, length about 12 mm. : the right lip narrow 



and not very strougly crenate (Oshima), C mima. 



2. — Right margin of the peristome smooth; aperture semicircular; 



inferior and subcolumellar lamellfe emerging to the lip-edge; 



length 30-34 mm. (Oshima), .... C. nesiothauma. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



All of the species of this section are new, and from the two 

 islands Okinawa and Oshima. 

 Clausilia callistochila n. sp. PI. XXII. figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Hhell thick and strong, pale brown, or green from adhering algte, 

 rimate, turreted, the upper third of the length attenuated, with 

 slightly concave outlines, the lower two-thirds rather swollen, the 

 penultimate whorl widest, the last half of the last whorl contracted, 

 compressed laterally. The apex is obtuse. Whorls 11|-, the early 

 ones worn smooth, the I'est closely rib-striate, the riblets on the last 

 whorl coarser and more widely spaced, somewhat undulating and ir- 

 regular. Aperture vertical, rhombic-piriform, with distinct sinulus, 

 the peristome expanded and reflexed, thick, white, the left margin 

 wide aud thick as far up as the sinulus, where it is abruptly exca- 

 vated; right margin, froin the superior lamella to the base, deeply cut 

 into rounded entering u)r inkles, which deeply crenulate the lip-edge. 

 Superior lamella subvertical, rather thick, emerging to the margin, 

 continuous with the high, long and strongly developed spiral 

 lamella. Inferior lamella subhorizoutal, strongly approaching the 

 superior lamella within, heavy, not reaching the lip-margin, very 

 strongly spiral inside. Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip- 

 edge, where it forms one of the series of lip-folds. Pi-incipal plica 

 strong and nearly a whorl long, reaching nearly to the lip; extend- 

 ing inward far beyond the lunella. Upper palatal plica long, con- 

 verging inwardly toward the principal plica ; lunella short and very 

 obliquely running inward, arising below from a very strong and 

 high, angularly bent, long, lower j^xdatal plica. 



Clausilium (PI. XXII, fig. 4) broad, irregularly curved, 

 abruptly truncate below, slightly thickened along the palatal mar- 

 gin, the apical end of the columellar margin much thickened, bent 

 nearly at a right angle with the rest of the surface, producing a 

 blunt tooth or lobe. 



Length 24, diam. 5f, longest axis of aperture 5f mm. 



Length 22f , diam. 5f , longest axis of aperture 6 mm. 



Province Kunchan, Okinawa (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 634). 



An extraordinary species, not only by the interpalatal lamellae 

 which deeply crenulate the lip, but also by the long and high lower 

 palatal fold and very oblique lunella; the two united in such 

 fashion as to make the figure of an almost prostrate letter /, 

 reminding one of the lunella of some of the C. platydera group of 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-Tuly, 



Hemiphiediisa, but unlike that group, an upper palatal plica is 

 developed. The clausilium is very peculiar. 



Clausilia nesiothauma n. .sp. PI. XXII, figs. 19, 20, 21. 



Shell large, fusiform, rather obese below, moderately tapering 

 above, fleshy-whitish, the surface lustreless and (where not over- 

 grown with algse or worn smooth) sculptured with moderately 

 coarse, somewhat waved rib-striie, branching or with intercalated 

 striie on the upper half of the last whorl. Apex small, the first 

 wiiorl rapidly enlarging, sometimes self- amputated and plugged. 

 Whorls 10, the la.st tapering below, having a broadly rounded basal 

 crest running to the lower angle of the aperture. Aperture verti- 

 cal, semicircular in general contour, obtusely angular at the sinulus 

 and at the foot of the columella; the inner margin being straight- 

 ened, the outer rounded. Peristome white, the outer and basal 

 margins flaring, broadly reflexed, the inner margin sloping, emar- 

 ginate at the termination of the superior lamella, arcuate along 

 the interlamellar space, then straightened. Superior lamella 

 strong, slightly oblique, marginal, continuous with the spiral 

 lamella. Inferior lamella very strong, calloused and thick, forming 

 a squarish columellar fold, abruptly lower or sometimes bifid where 

 it extends upon the peristome. Subcolumellar lamella emergmg, 

 very strong and prominent, extending to the lip-edge. Principal 

 plica about one-third of a whorl long, lateral in position. Lunella 

 arcuate, its upper end curving well inward (being completely united 

 with, and curving into, a short upper palatal plica); below, the 

 lunella becomes strong and high, and joins the middle of an ex- 

 tremely strong, long, arched lower palatal fold, the summit of which 

 curves downward and almost meets a broad, erect plate which at 

 this point rises from the subcolumellar lamella. The lower end of 

 the lower palatal plica is visible from the aperture, in a front or 

 slightly oblique view. The inferior lamella is continued inward as 

 a strongly spiral erect plate, rather distant from the spiral lamella 

 on the dorsal side, but approaching it and becoming rather abruptly 

 lower v-entrally, both penetrating to beyond the middle of the ven- 

 tral side. The subcolumellar lamella inward from the expansion 

 toward the lower palatal plica, is slightly sigmoid, and not parallel 

 inside with the inferior lamella. 



Clausilium (figs. 15, 16) rather broad in the middle, slightly 

 tapering toward each end, the lower end abruptly truncate, emar- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



ginate or notched, a somewhat thickened, finger-like and more 

 curved process extending downward on the coluraellar side ; 

 proximal end passing gradually into the rather broad filament. 



Length 34, diam. 7.8, lougest axis of aperture 9.4 mm. 



Length 30.5, diam. 7.5, longest axis of aperture 9 mm. 



Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 652). 



Readily known by its large size and the peculiar shape of the 

 aperture. 

 Clausilia oshimae n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. .5, 6. 



Shell fusiform, the upper third slender and somewhat attenuated, 

 the lower half rather swollen; penultimate whorl Avidest. Very 

 solid and strong. Pale brownish, more or less eroded. Closely 

 and rather strongly striate. Apex small, the first whorl rapidly 

 increasing, next three or four whorls very slowly widening; whorls 

 about 11|^, the last whorl tapering, laterally compressed, flattened, 

 having a shallow pit behind the middle of the outer lip, rounded 

 at the base. Aperture ear-shaped, oblique, produced in a deep 

 retracted sinulus above. Peristome reflexed, thickened, a slight 

 ridge running # behind the outer lip parallel with it; outer lip 

 obtusely toothed at the termination of the principal phca, thin 

 above, rather broad below the tooth. Inner lip projecting in the 

 middle, cut into six or eight rounded, unequal interlamellar folds, 

 and similarly or more weakly crenate to or below the subcolumellar 

 lamella. Superior lamella vertical, emerging beyond the general 

 level of the peristome, continuous with the spiral lamella. Infe- 

 rior lamella very prominently projecting into the aperture, subhori- 

 zontal and somewhat thickened below. Subcolumellar lamelUt 

 wholly immersed, but replaced on the lip by rugie occupying its 

 place. Principal plica very long, reaching to the lip and running 

 inward over a whorl; very strong. Upper palatal plica short, 

 weak and lateral; lower palatal plica very strong and long, its 

 lower end visible within the aperture, in an obhque view. Lunella 

 apparently wanting. Within, the inferior lamella is a very high, 

 strongly but somewhat irregularly spiral plate; the spiral lamella 

 is also very high, almost touching the principal plica; and both 

 lamellae penetrate far past the ventral side. The subcolumellar la- 

 mella is short as usual, but strong near its deeply immersed lower end. 



Length 22.5, diam. 4.5, longest axis of aperture 5.6 mm. 



Length 21, diam. 4.5, longest axis of aperture 5 mm. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



The clausilium (PI. XXII, figs. 12, 13, 14) is strongly curved 

 below, and becomes very thick toward the apex. The distal end 

 has two apices separated by a notch, the outer one conic and 

 rather broad, the inner blunt and bent nearly at a right angle with 

 the body of the plate. 



Xase, Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 653a). 



This exceedingly peculiar species has the crenulate right lip of 

 most of its group, but it differs from all known species except the 

 next in the great development of the posterior bay or " sinulus " 

 of the aperture. It is difficult to gain a correct conception of the 

 closing apparatus, so contracted is the cavity of the last whorl 

 by the enormously developed lamellse and plicre. The deeply 

 immersed subcolumellar lamella is a prominent feature, differentiating 

 C. oshimce from C. j^seudoshimce ; but as I have remarked above, 

 this is masked by the sulcation of the lip, by which rounded 

 lamellae are produced in the subcolumellar position. 



Clausilia pseudoshimae n. sp. PI. XXII, titrs. 7, S, 9, 10. 



Shell very similar externally to C. oshimce; a little smaller; 

 aperture and lip the same, except that the subcolumellar lamella 

 emerges to the Ui)-edrje. Internal structure the same, except that 

 the spiral trend of the inferior lamella, as seen from the back in 

 an opened shell, is made irregular by two prominent angles; there is 

 a rather long, latero-dorsal, uj^per palatal plica opposite the great 

 lateral dilation of the inferior lamella. The very long lower 

 palatal plica gives off a very short and extremely oblique lunella 

 in a ventral position, where the clausilium lodges. The clausilium 

 (PI. XXII, fig. 11) has two subequal blunt apical points, sepa- 

 rated by a rather wide notch. 



Length 19.3, diam. 4, longest axis of aperture 5 mm. 



Length 17, diam. 4, longest axis of aperture 4.7 mm. 



Furuniya, Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 6536). 



Strikingly like C. oshimce in general aspect, yet readily distin- 

 guishable by a number of important interna) characters. On 

 cutting the shell it is found to be decidedly less strong than in the 

 other species. The clausilium lodges in a ventral position. The 

 form of the basal lip is poorly represented in fig. 8. The other 

 fiirures show it correctlv. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



Clausilia mima n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 37, 38, 39. 



Shell small, fusiform, rather obese, but rapidly tapering and 

 conspicuously attenuated above ; thin and not very strong, pale 

 brown, densely and finely rib-striate. Whorls 8^ to 9, convex, 

 the apex rather large, next three or four whorls widening but 

 little; last half of the last whorl much contracted, flattened. 

 Aperture somewhat oblique, small, piriform, with moderately well- 

 defined sinulus. Peristome reflexed, slightly thickened, the outer 

 margin excavated above, the upper and right margins more or less 

 crenulate, the creuulation varying from strong to subobsolete in 

 difterent specimens. Superior lamella vertical, emerging a little 

 beyond the general level of the peristome, slightly wider or bifid 

 at the margin; continuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior 

 lamella forming a rather strong subhorizontal fold within, not 

 emerging to the peristome. Subcolumellar lamella emerging, 

 marginal. Principal plica about a half whorl long, extending 

 from the dorsal to the middle of the ventral side. Upper palatal 

 plica lateral, arcuate, converging inward toward the principal 

 plica, the outer end contiguous to the lunella, the upper end of 

 which curves toward and is almost united with it. Lunella lateral 

 in position, oblique, weak above, strong below, where it unites 

 with the middle of a long, very strong and angularly bent lower 

 palatal plica. The subcolumellar lamella is abruptly and strongly 

 dilated in the region of the lower palatal plica, and is bent over 

 toward it; beyond this dilation it curves abruptly and ascends the 

 internal column in the usual manner, expands again and turns 

 toward the right, parallel to the other lamellre upon the roof of 

 the penultimate whorl. The inferior lamella within the last 

 whorl is stout, liigh, very strongly spiral, and with the spiral 

 lamella continues inward past the ventral side, upon which the 

 three lamellte run parallel. 



Length 13^, diam. 3^ mm. 



Length 11^, diam. 3 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXII, figs. 17, 18) broad, strongly curved, 

 broadly rounded along the outer margin, truncate at the apex, and 

 produced on the columellar side into a long finger-like process. 



Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 654). 



Much smaller than other species of the section, and strongly 

 attenuated above, like C. hrevior v. Mart. The process of the 

 27 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



clausiliuiu is also longer, and the whole plate is strongly twisted 

 spirally. ~_.. . 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Bttg. 



Grouj) of C. 2)tychochila. 



In this group the right lij) or iuterlaraellar space is more or less 

 creuate; the superior and sul:)colamellar lamella are marginal, the 

 inferior lamella somewhat receding, thickened below, strongly sig- 

 moid within, and in the middle of the dorsal aspect it is low, wide 

 and bifid, as if composed of two cords twisted round one another. 

 The lower palatal plica is very strong, elevated in the middle where 

 the lunella joins it, the latter being very strong below, weak above. 

 The clausilium (PI. XXIII, figs. 26-29) is wider in the middle 

 than in Ilemiphcedusa, tapering above and below, strongly curved 

 toward the thickened, obtuse apex, and with the lateral margins 

 bent nearly at right angles with the rest of the plate, forming a 

 sort of spout-like distal extremity (PI. XXIII, figs. 27, 28). 



This group is probably entitled to separate sectional rank. It is 

 related to the Japanese group of C. jylntydera, but differs in the 

 form of the inferior lamella within the last whorl, and iu the 

 clausilium. 



Key to species. 



1, — Inferior lamella thickened but simple below: 



a, — Surface strongly ribbed; subcoluraellar lamella somewhat 

 dilated in the part adjacent to the lower palatal plica, 



C. Bernardii. 

 a'. — Surface more finely costulate : 



h. — Lunella becoming very weak and curving inward 



above, strong and high below; subcolumellar 



lamella not dilated near the lower palatal plica; 



upper palatal plica weak, . . C. crenilabium, 



I'. — Lunella straight; shell more obese, C. jdychochila. 



2. — Inferior lamella bifid below, C. excel! ens. 



Clausilia Bernardii Pi'r. V\. XXIII. fes. 30, 31, 32. 



C. Bernardii Pfr., Journ. de Concliyl., IX, 1861, p. 267, PI. 15, figs. 1, 

 2 ; ]\ronogr. Ilel. Viv., VI, p. 426. 



This species was described as from Siam. It has not been found 

 by any later collectors in that region, and there are grave reasons 

 for considering the locality erroneous. 



The origmal specimens from. Beruardi's collection were dis- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



tribiited to Pfeiffer, the Academy of Katural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, and perhaps to other collections; and I suppose the figured 

 type is preserved in the collection of the Journal de Conchyliologie 

 in Paris. 



Upon examining the species, I find that it is very closely related 

 to my C. crenilabium of Kunchan, Okinawa; in fact, so inti- 

 mately, that I have no doubt that C Bernardii really came from 

 Okinawa or some other island of the Loo Choo chain. No species 

 of the same group has been found in China, Tonquin or elsewhere 

 on the mainland, and it is apparently a local group, specialized 

 on these islands. 



The source whence Bernard! procured his specimens is not 

 stated, but it is significant that in the same volume of the Journal 

 several species from Japan and the Loo Choo Islands, collected 

 by a French naval officer, M. Thomas, are described. Probably 

 G. Bernardii was one of the species taken by him in Loo Choo. 



C. Bernardii differs from C. crenilabium in having the surface- 

 sculpture very much coarser. The lunella is very strong below, 

 where it joins the middle of an elevated conic lower palatal fold, 

 the apex of which overhangs or curves downward in the middle. 

 Above, the lunella rapidly weakens, and curves backward into the 

 low upper palatal fold, which also has a low continuation on the 

 other side — apertureward — of the lunella. The projecting squar- 

 ish inferior lamella is much thickened below, and within the last 

 whorl it has the peculiar shape seen in C. crenilabium, the spiral 

 portion being superposed at the side of, rather than continuous 

 with, the externally visible part of the inferior lamella. It is 

 very strong, somewhat expanded in the region of the lunella. 

 The spiral and inferior lamella3 are of equal length, and continue 

 inward past the ventral position, to a point in line with the supe- 

 rior lamella. In G. crenilabium both lamellte extend further 

 inward, and the spiral lamella is decidedly longer than the othei*. 

 The crenulation of the interlamellar space is coarser in Bernardii 

 than in crenilabium. There are 11 whorls, the upper ones more 

 attenuated than in crenilabium, and the color is corneous-white, not 

 brownish. 



The clausilium of G. Bernardii is shaped almost exactly as in 

 C. crenilabium, broad in the middle, tapering and strongly curved 

 toward the apex, which is obtuse, slightly thickened and spout- 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



like, from having the lateral edges of the tapering portion abruptly 

 bent toward the convex side of the clau.silium. The jialatal 

 margin is especially widely reflexed and flattened. 



Clausilia ptychocMla BoottKcr. ri. xxill, figs, -lo, ll, 12. 



Clausilienstudien, p. 66 (1877); Jahrb. d. I). Malak. Ges., V, p. 57, PI. 

 3, fig. 8 (1878). 



The habitat of this species is unknown. It was described from 

 a single specimen, supposed to be from China, but without record 

 of locality. From its characters I think it will be found on 

 Okinawa or some neighboring island. 



The type measures, length 24^, diam. 6^, length of apertui-e 6^, 

 width 4^ mm. ^It is swollen-fusiform, densely costulate and 

 whitish-corneous, the spire concavely attenuated. Whorls 11. 

 The aperture is rhombic-piriform, peristome much thickened, sin- 

 uate and appressed above. There is a groove separating the 

 superior lamella from the numerous folds which corrugate the 

 interlamellar space. The inferior lamella is callous below. " The 

 small upper and the longer lower palatal plicse are united with 

 the short, straight lunella, which at its base gives off a distinct 

 branch backward." The clausilium has not been described. 



Boettger's description and figures show this to be a species closely 

 related to C. crenilahium and G. Bernardu. It differs from the 

 former in being more inflated, with the lunella apparently straight, 

 not curving inward above, and nothing is said to indicate that 

 the lower palatal plica has the great height at its junction with the 

 lunella and the strong development seen in C. crenilahium. It is 

 apparently more finely sculptured than C. Bernardii. Further 

 collections are needed to determine whether these three species are 

 constantly distinct or united by intermediate examples. Num- 

 bers of specimens of C. Bernardii and C. crenilahium show no 

 tendency toward intergradation, and with present knowledge I 

 would not feel justified in uniting the three species. 



Dr. von ]\[ollendorff has placed ptychochila in the synouomy of 

 excellens (Jahrh. D. Mai. Ges., X, p. 2(59). This union is inadmis- 

 sible. 

 Clausilia crenilabium n. sp. PL XXIII, figs. 23, 21, 25, 33. 



Shell thick and strong, brownish buff, rimate, turreted, attenu- 

 ated above, moderately swollen below, the last whorl contracted, 

 penultimate whorl widest. Whorls about l\h, slightly convex. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 421 



sculptured with close, regular and rather fine rib-strite, coarser on 

 the last whorl. Aperture vertical, rhombic-piriforni, the peris- 

 tome white, reflexed, somewhat thickened, the outer lip excavated 

 above to form an indistinct sinulus; the uppei- margin to the right 

 of the superior lamella is cut into 3 to 5 entering folds, deeply crenu- 

 latiug the lip-edge; the rest of the right margin is rveakly and irregu- 

 larly subcrenulate. Superior lamella strong, slightly oblique, attain- 

 ing the margin, continuous with the long and high spiral lamella. 

 Inferior lamella strong, approaching the superior, not reaching 

 upon the lip, very heavy and callous below, strongly spiral and 

 with a superposed callus within. Subcolumellar lamella emerging. 

 Principal plica rather long and strong, visible within the aperture, 

 extending inward slightly beyond the latero -ventral lunella. 

 Upper palatal plica small and low, united with the lunella. Lower 

 palatal phca short and high, angularly elevated and overhanging 

 downward in the middle, where the strong lunella joins it. 



Clausilium (PI. XXIII, figs. 26-29) well curved, wide above, 

 the lower half tapering, narrow, terminating in a blunt apex, 

 which is channeled and spout-like outside. Columellar margin 

 thickened near and at the apex; palatal margin sinuous, bearing 

 a sharp, high, keel-like thickening on the outside along its lower 

 half; proximal end emarginate on the columellar side of the fila- 

 ment. 



Length 32, diam. 7, longest axis of aperture 7.8 mm. 



Length 30, diam. 7.3, longest axis of aperture 8.3 mm. 



Length 26, diam, 6.3, longest axis of aperture 7 mm. 



Kunchan, Okinawa (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 632a). 

 ' ' This species differs from C. callistochila in the weak crenulatiou 

 of the right lip, shorter principal plica, shorter and diff^erently 

 shaped lower palatal plica, the smaller upper palatal, which is 

 united with the lunella, and especially in the different form of the 

 olausilium. 



'^ Specimens No. 6326 of Mr. Hirase' s collection, also from Kun- 

 <;han, the northern province of Okinawa, are green from adhering 

 algse, evidently having lived in a moist place. The crenulation of 

 the lip is much less marked, thei-e being but one or two inter- 

 lamellar folds close to the superior lamella; the lower palatal fold 

 and lunella are shortened, forming a sort of triangular buttressed 

 pyramid; the lunella is very low above, and curves into a sub- 




422 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



•[July, 



obsolete upper palatal fold. The clausilium is the same as in the 

 typical form. The tip of the spire is sometimes lost. 



Length 28, diam, 6.3, longest axis of aperture 7.2 mm. 



Length 28,7, diam. 6, longest axis of aperture 7.2 mm. 



Clausilia excellens Pfeiffer. PL XXIII, (ig. 43. 



This species was originally described by Gould as C prceclara, 

 but this name being preoccupied it was changed by Pfeiffer to C. 

 excellens. The species was known to Pfeiffer by Gould's descrip- 

 tion only." Through the kindness of Prof. William H. Dall I am 

 A able, to give a figure of the type specimen, from 



^ Loo Choo, in the National Museum. 



It differs from C. crenilahlum in the slightly 

 stronger striation and the better development of the 

 interlamellar crenulation; and from C. crenilabium, 

 ptychochila and Benidrdli in the grooving of the 

 top of the inferior lamella, which is almost bifid. 

 In C erenilahiwn and C. Bernardii the inferior la- 

 mella is only bifid far within, in a dorsal position, 

 as shown in PI. XXIII, fig. 25. In C. excellens 

 this bifid structure has apparently moved downward 

 to the lower end of the lamella. 



The clausilium of C. excellens is still unknown, 

 ^*«u.^.--' as the type specimen has not been opened ; and the 



subgeneric position of the species cannot, therefore, be considered 

 certain. It may possibly be a Luchuphcedusa. 



1 



Grouj) of C. munus. 



A group of uncertain systematic position, probably referable to 

 Tt/raiinopJuedasa rather than to Hem Ip heed usa ; but more material 

 and further study is needed to determine to what extent Ileml- 

 pluedusa is heterogeneous, and how it may best be subdivided. 

 The heavy thickening of the distal end of the clausilium on the 

 columellar side, and its short form, remove the species described 

 below from Hemiphczdxisa, but it differs from the typical forms 

 of Tijrannopluedihsa in the comparatively few-whorled shell and 

 in details of the palatal armature. 



^See p. 409, footnote No. 2. There is a very poor figure of C. excellens in 

 the Concholixjia Iconica^ XX, PI. X, fig. 89. 




1901.] :^fATURAL sciences of PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Clausilia niunus n. sp. PL XXIII, liss. 34. 35. 36. 



Shell rather small, fusiform, slender and much attenuated above, 

 rather obese below; brown and glossy when unworn, but often 

 lustreless and more or less eroded. Finely and closely striate, the 

 later half of the last whorl much more coarsely so. Whorls 9 

 to 9^, rather convex, the penultimate whorl widest, the last whorl 

 contracted, tapering. Aperture rhombic-ovate, the peristome 

 whitish, reflexed, moderately thick, slightly emarginate at the 

 position of the superior lamella. Superior lamella vertical, reach- 

 ing the margin, continuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior 

 lamella immersed, receding, not visible in a front view, but seen 

 by looking obliquely into the aperture; almost straightly ascend- 

 ing inside. Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, with 

 a groove on each side. Principal plica nearly a half whorl long, 

 its end visible within the throat from the aperture, extending 

 inward slightly beyond the closing apparatus. Upper palatal 

 plica short, converging a little inwardly toward the principal plica; 

 not connected with the arcuate, obhque, rather strong lunella, the 

 lower end of which curves inward somewhat. 



Length 15, diara. 3.5 mm. 



Length 13.5, diam. 3.6 mm. 



Length 13, diam. 3 mm. 



Clausilium rather broad and short, tapering to a mucronate apex, 

 heavily thickened on the columellar side at and near the apex, 

 nearly straight, curved only near the filament, where it is abruptly 

 narrowed, and deeply excavated or emarginate on the columellar side. 



Oshima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No 646). 



In general form this species resembles G. brevior and C. axca- 

 jiensis. It differs from the latter in the wider peristome, in having 

 the lunella free from the upper palatal plica, and in the shape of 

 the clausilium, which in this species resembles that of TijrannophcB- 

 diisa, it being shorter and broader than in Hemiphcedusa, and 

 strongly thickened toward the apex, along xhe columellar side. 



Section ZAPTYX Pilsbry. 



Vide these Proceedings for 1900, pp. 446, 672. 

 Clausilia hyperoptyx Piisbrj-. 



This species was sent by Mr. Hirase as from " Loo Choo " — 

 that is, I suppose. Great Loo Choo (Luchu), Nawa, or Okinawa 

 Island. A further lot, No. 4576, has been sent from Yayeyama. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^llj, 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES XXII AND XXIII. 



Plate XXII, Figs. 1-3. — Clausilia caUistochila. 



Fig. 4. — Clausilia caUistochila. Clausilium, showing form of the apex. 



Figs. 5, 6. — C. osldmoi. I, Inferior lamella; P, lower end of the lower 

 palatal plica ; 6', subcolumellar lamella ; /Sp., spiral lamella ; 5mj)., superior 

 lamella. 



Figs. 7-10. — C. pseudosJiimcB. 



Fig. 11. — C. pseitdo»himm. Clausilium, turned to show form of the apex. 



Fig. 12. — C oshim(e. Clausilium, interior face; 13, profile from colum- 

 ellar side ; 14, inner face, turned to show form of the apex. 



Fig. 15. — 0. nesiothduma. Clausilium, interior face ; 16, the same, 

 turned to show form of the apex. 



Fig. 17. — C. tnima. Clausilium, turned to show form of the apex ; 13, 

 interior face of the same. 



Figs. 19-21 — C. nesiotfiauma. Fig. 20 showing the spiral and inferior 

 lamellre, and on the left side part of the lunella and lower palatal plica, 

 with the dilated portion of the subcolumellar lamella. 



Plate XXIII, Figs. 23-25. — C. crenilaUum. I, inferior lamella , L, 

 lunella ; P, lower palatal plica ; S, subcolumellar lamella. 



Fig. 26. — G. crenilabium. Clausilium, seen in profile from the columellar 

 side ; 27, apical view ; 28, interior face ; 29, the same turned to show shape 

 of the apex. 



Figs. 30-32.— C. BernarcUi. 



Fig. 33. — C. crenilahium. 



Figs. 34-36.— C munus. 



Figs. 37-39. — G. miina. 



Figs. 40-42. — C. ptycliocJdla (copied from Boettger). 



Fig. 43. — G. excellens (type specimen of G. jivoeclara Gld., drawn by Dr. 

 J. C. McConnell). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



A STUDY OF AN ANT. 

 BY ADELE M. FIELDE. 



The colonies of Stenamma (Ajyhoinogaster) fulvum Mayr, sub- 

 species aquira Buckley, variety piceum Emery, a jNIyrmicid ant 

 found commonly in the neighborhood of Wood's Hole have varied 

 in the numbers of their inmates from a few individuals to many 

 thousands. The nests are near the surface, in mellow soil, by 

 roadsides, in meadows, and in woods, and are usually neai', among, 

 or under loose stones.^ 



^ Unless otherwise iudicated the ants under observation were kept in the 

 portable nests described by the author in Vol. 2, No. 2, of the Biological 

 Bulletin. The species mentioned in this paper were identified for the 

 writer by Prof. William Morton Wheeler, of the University of Texas. 

 The colonies under inspection were kept at the Marine Biological Labora- 

 tory at Wood's Hole, Mass., from July to the end of September, 1900, 

 and in New York City from then until the first of June, 1901, when 

 they were carried back to Wood's Hole. The temperature of the room 

 in which they were kept in New York varied from 40^ to 90 J F., or 5^ 

 to So-' C, and this variation often occurred during single days. The 

 word day is used thronghout this narrative as representing a period of 

 twenty-four hours' duration. The use of Petri double-dishes in the study of 

 living ants was suggested to the author by Prof. Wheeler. Those referred 

 to in this study were about 100 millimeters in diameter and 10 ram. deep on 

 the inside. The cell formed by the double dish was set upon a disk of card- 

 board, covered with white Turkish towelling, to which a tiny patch of black 

 silk was attached. The Petri cell was set upon this disk, which was wider 

 than itself, and the cell was covered with another disk of thick dark blotting 

 paper. Within the cell were two sections of very fine-meshed sponge about 

 6 mm. thick, covering one-third the floor of the cell, and so placed as to leave 

 a passageway for the ants between the sponge and the cell-wall, and also a 

 triangular space where the ants could settle between the sponges and above 

 the black patch. The sponges were kept saturated with water, to give drink 

 to the ants and moisture to the air, and to prevent the hiding of the eggs in 

 the interstices of the sponge. Care was taken that the sponges should not 

 overflow and inundate the young. 



Particles of food, from three to six kinds, known to be acceptable to the 

 ants, were constantly provided, and laid on that part of the floor farthest 

 from the sponges. The air, the water, and the food were kept always fresh 

 and clean. The sponges were dipped in alcohol and well rinsed once a 

 week. 



The cells were set upon the shelves of a dark, well-aired cupboard, with the 

 food-side of the cell toward the source of light. Not more than seven ants 

 were permanently housed in a single cell. Among the ants kept several 

 months in this manner there were scarcely any deaths from natural causes. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [July> 



The workers ai'e brown in their general color, and are from four 

 to seven millimeters in length, and, although they arcr apparently 

 alike in all except size, they are here referred to as majors, minors 

 and minims, the majors being from six to seven millimeters long. 

 the minors from five to six, and the minims from four to five. 

 When the colony moves the majors do the main part of the work 

 of transporting the inert young, and they often seize, lift and 

 carry to the new abode such ants as adhere too persistently to the 

 old habitation. The minors appear to do a large part of the scout- 

 ing and purveying. The minims are greatly devoted to the care of 

 the eggs, larvpe and pupre. All assiduously serve the queen, and 

 all engage in battles with enemies. 



The queens are from seven to eight millimeters in length without 

 their wings, and are redder than the workers. The kings are 

 from six to seven millimeters long, with the wings projecting 

 another millimeter beyond the end of the body, and are jet black 

 in color. 



The Avorkers are efficient fighters, and at close quarters will kill 

 Formica fusca, double their bulk. They evince extreme hostil- 

 ity not only to ants of other species, but to those of other or alien 

 colonies of their own species and variety. In this paper the term 

 alien is used to denote a different colony of the same species and 

 variety. Queens of different colonies, when placed together in a nest 

 or a Petri cell, ostracize each other, remaining as far apart as possible. 

 ]f forced into close quarters, they interlock mandibles and push 

 and pull one another until one dies. An alien queen, introduced 

 into and unable to flee from a queenless colony, is attacked by its 

 workers, and though she may make a brave fight, is eventually 

 killed. When a queen is alone she will sometimes fight in defense 



and after a day or two of quiet residence in this abode they showed 

 little disposition to leave it, but carried on their normal occupations with 

 an appearance of contentment. 



In deaninff the cell, the cover was gently removed in a dim light, the left 

 hand was placed snngly over the part of the cell occupied l)y the ant family, 

 and the ants stayed in the agreeable warmth and daikness thus provided for 

 them while the nnficcu])ied part of the cell was cleaned. By externally 

 covering any portion of the cell floor with the black patch, antl setting the 

 cell in a dim light, the ants were made to move to the selected site without 

 serious disturbance or h ss of eggs. 



For prolonged observation of the ants I n^ed a weak light, natural or 

 artificial, hand lenses, and a background, under the glass lloor, of whatever 

 color best showed the object. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



of her egg?, larvre aud pup:e; but if there be workers belonging 

 to her, she retires to a place of safety, and remains there until the 

 fracas subsides and the workers seek her out. 



"Workers from different colonies shut into the same nest will fight 

 until but one party remains. I put into a Janet nest, which one 

 colony had occupied for a week, another colony that had for two 

 weeks been in a Lubbock nest. The following day the Lubbock 

 colony was congregated with a mass of its young in three stages 

 in the food-room; the Janet colony was likewise congregated with 

 its young in the adjoining nursery, and a battle was raging between 

 groups of two, of three, of four and of five, the attacks being 

 always upon single ants. A day later eighty ants had been slain, 

 and the warfare continued. On the fifth day the young of both 

 colonies had all been brought together into the nursery and the 

 victorious remnant of the Janet colony was alone Avith its spoils. 



When a single alien Sfenamma falvum piceujn is introduced into 

 a colony, it at once exhibits signs of terror, endeavors to flee or to 

 hide, and keeps apart from the habitants; but sooner or later an 

 inmate comes upon it, and though it may slay its opponent in a 

 duel or two, it is sure to be destroyed, as no Stenamma fulvum 

 piceum code of honor intervenes against an attack of many upon 

 one. 



Long-continued isolation does not abate the hostility of Sten- 

 amma fulvum piceitm to an alien. I have tried many experiments 

 with queens that had lived solitary for several months, introducing 

 to their respective domiciles alien workers of all ages, from loag 

 mature adults to callows just beginning to walk, and I have but 

 rarely succeeded in efTecting a reconciliation between the two. 

 The hostility of the worker to the queen was usually as marked as 

 was that of the queen to the worker. The few cases in which 

 affiliation Avas induced were all between the queen and very young- 

 callows, whose impudence appears sometimes to be condoned by 

 their elders. An instance of this toleration was given by a queen 

 and one major worker that had been isolated in a Petri cell for 

 more than three months. After killing several older callows, 

 introduced one by one, they had permitted an alien minim, intro- 

 duced when but a few hours old, to remain with them. Five days- 

 later I introduced two sisters of their adopted young worker, the 

 newcomers being minims about twenty days old. These newcomer* 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



at once attacked the queeu and the major. The major acted solely 

 on the defensive. Curling her abdomen in, and sitting on the 

 small of her back, with her tough thorax presented to her small 

 enemy, she permitted much nabbing of her body and much pulling 

 of her limbs, making no retaliation. The queen, on her part, 

 caught her little adversary by its antenna and held it firmly and 

 quietly for some minutes, then released it and stood head to head 

 with it without nipping it. The whole conduct of the adults was 

 like that often seen in big dogs that are playing with obstreperous 

 puppies. It appeared as if the adults liked their adopted callow 

 aud were unwilling to harm its sisters. The three callows perfectly 

 affiliated from the start; but the newcomers often renewed their 

 attacks on the queen and the major, and after some hours were 

 killed by the adults. The adopted callow continued to live in 

 that cell. 



The kings of different colonies are indifierent or friendly to one 

 another, and they have no steady foes either in their own or other 

 households of their kind. They are the only active representatives 

 of their colony that are ever cordially received in any other colony, 

 and strong inducements are apparently offered for their permanent 

 •residence among the aliens. I have seen two workers, one on either 

 side of an alien king, holding to his wings and gently conducting 

 him through the grass to the entrance of their domicile; and I have 

 •repeatedly seen the workers capture, lift and carry alien kings 

 home with them. If, about swarming time, an alien king is 

 dropped into one of my glass nests, the workers seize him by his 

 wings and forcibly detain him among them. If he later wanders 

 away, they follow, lift and bring him back. The kings are much 

 petted by the workers; their bodies are licked clean, their wings 

 are straightened and smoothed, and their heads are patted with the 

 antennae. If the colony is forced to change its place of residence 

 the kings are picked up by the small of the back and carried to 

 the new abode. Young winged queens manifest great friendliness 

 toward alien king.s. Probably cross-fertilization is common if not 

 universal. 



Stenamma fulvum piceum of the same colony, queens, kings and 

 workers, generally live amicably together. The queen is followed, 

 tended, licked and patted, and is the evident centre of attraction 

 in the crroun. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrillA. 429' 



Colonies captured and confined in my nests just before swarming 

 time, within a few days divided into as many groups as there were 

 queens, the queens disposing themselves as far apart as the limits 

 of the nest permitted. When a queen was then x-eraoved by me, 

 the workers at once carried the young and settled down by another 

 queen. 



A wingless queen, after wandering for some days alone in a 

 Lubbock nest, cleared an irregularly oval space about three centi- 

 meters long and two centimeters wide, building a smooth solid wall 

 with the particles of earth that she removed from her floor. The 

 wall was compact and vertical, and for more than half the circum- 

 ference of the structure extended a distance of five millimeters 

 from the floor to the glass roof. She worked industriously for 

 several days on this structure and then laid an egg, which she 

 lifted and carried between her mandibles whenever light was 

 admitted to her dwelling. The day after the laying of the first 

 egg, a visitor lifted the glass roof of the nest and spoiled her 

 work. I then marked her, using a fine camel' s-hair brush and 

 dotting the top of her abdomen with a fleck of quickly drying 

 varnish into which water colors had been rubbed, and I then re- 

 turned her to her own colony, from which she had been absent 

 three weeks. The first worker that she there met stood head to 

 head with her for some minutes, while the two tapped each other 

 with antennte and the v/orker regurgitated food to the queen. 

 Other ants greeted her with the same ordinary signs of satisfaction. 

 Xine queens taken on their emergence from the nest at swarming 

 in September and placed in Petri cells, each \vith an alien king, 

 retained their wings from two to three months, and only one of 

 them laid eggs before shedding her wings. One of my queens shed 

 her wings the day she was captured, and another retained hers 

 nearly four months. One laid her first egg twenty-seven days 

 after swarming in September, and one laid no eggs until January, 

 one hundred and six days after swarming. None of the score of 

 queens that I have isolated at their swarming with alien kings has 

 failed sooner or later to lay eggs. 



The eggs are deposited one at a time, without regularity in the 

 intervals. Only once have I known so many as six to be deposited 

 in a single day, one or two a day being the ordinary number. If 

 the queen is agitated or troubled she ceases from egg-laying, some- 




430 PKOCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jllb'» 



limes for many days together. Some of the queens in my Petri 

 cells have averaged more than one egg a day during every month 

 from September to the following July, and they and their workers 

 appear to be in good health, though they have had during the 

 winter no respite from the labor of rearing the young. 



The eggs laid by the queens are visible to the unassisted eye, are 

 a pearly translucent white, and are oblong in shape, the thickness 

 being about half the length, which is half a millimeter. When 

 the queen is about to deposit an egg, workers stand about her, as 

 if aware of a new duty, aud they pick up the egg as soon as it is 

 deposited aud add it to the packet, which is constantly tended, 

 kept clean, watched over and carried about by the workers. The 

 egg -packet, after being carried about for some time by one worker, 

 is passed over to another, who appears to assume the burden 

 eagerly. If the queen is alone she takes care of her own eggs. 



In order to ascertain the time of incubation, I placed queens 

 each in a clean Petri cell, some with workers, some without workers, 

 and cleaned each cell daily until the first egg was deposited in it. 

 I examined the cell two or three times a day, and recorded the 

 time of deposit of the first egg and of a few succeeding ones. In 

 some cases I removed the queen after a few eggs had been depos- 

 ited, leaving the eggs to the care of the workers alone. I counted 

 the eggs daily to see that there was no diminution in their number, 

 aud I cast out from my calculations all cases in which there was a 

 diminution of the number of eggs during the time of my observa- 

 tions. I was also careful that there should be no manipulation nor 

 disturbance of the eggs except by the ants themselves. The eggs 

 recorded were laid between the 7th of October and the 8th of the 

 following May, aud were laid by ten diff^erent queens. Twenty- 

 two simultaneous or successive broods were thus observed, with the 

 result that in two cases the first larva appeared on the eighteenth 

 day after the laying of the first egg; in nine cases on the nine- 

 teenth day; in ten cases on the twentieth day; in one case on the 

 twenty-first day. The time of incubation was not influenced 

 solely by temperature, for eggs laid by different queens on the 

 same day did not invariably hatch on the same day. In six of 

 the twenty -two broods two eggs were deposited by the same queen 

 on the first day, and these six broods each produced its first two 

 larvre within the same day. Furthermore, the appearance of 




1901.] I NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPPIIA. 431 



larvie succeediug the first iu each brood correspouded closeiy with 

 the times of the deposit of eggs succeeding the first laid. Various 

 broods, removed to weak alcohol or hot water aud examined under 

 a len8, showed the larva well formed iu the egg at about the seven- 

 teenth day and no earlier. Broods iu which the first larva 

 ajjpeared on the nineteenth day were immersed iu alcohol and 

 examined under a lens, and they always showed earlier, but never 

 later, stages of larval existence ; while broods in which no larva 

 had appeared on the twentieth day showed, when examined in like 

 manner, a larva perfectly formed within the egg membrane. I 

 therefore conclude that the period of incubation varies between 

 seventeen and tweuty-two days, with nineteen days as the common 

 period. The variation in the ])eriod of incubation bears no fixed 

 relation to the size of the future adult. Eggs of different periods 

 of incubation followed to the adult form were found to produce 

 the same sort of worker. 



]My ants have furnished no evidence that they ever devour the 

 eggs, larvie or pupje of their own colony. One worker, isolated in 

 a Petri cell twenty-one days without food, died leaving five eggs 

 intact during the last sixteen days of her starvation. In all the 

 score of Petri cells in which I have for months watched the condi- 

 tion aud counted the numbers of the eggs, no diminution of them 

 could be logically charged to the mature ants, whose skill and 

 diligence in keeping them clean, safe, dry and iu humid darkness, 

 merits high renown. 



The feeding of the larva, which is bent nearly double in the 

 egg, with regurgitated food begins as soon as it straightens itself and 

 protrudes its mouth. When the larvre begin to appear in the egg- 

 pacKet, the workers lift the packet and hold it free aud still, while 

 one of their number holds a translucent white globule of regurgi- 

 tated food to the larval mouth projecting from the surface of the 

 egg-packet. I have repeatedly seeu the workers thus feeding the 

 very young larva?, a single globule of regurgitated food serving 

 for a meal of which four or five larvi^e successively partook. 



When the larva first emerges, its leugth is nearly double that of 

 the egg. When well fed its growth is rapid and iu a day or two 

 its length is three or four times that of the egg. When about 

 two millimeters loug it is usually removed from Ihe egg-packet 

 and laid on the floor, or associated with others of its size iu a 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July^ 



separate bundle, the individuals being fastened together by the 

 hooks on their .surfaces, as the eggs were by their sticky shells. 

 The habit which is observable in Stenamnia fulvuin ])iceum, 

 in common with some other species of ants, of assorting the young 

 in accordance with the size and form, doubtless economizes labor 

 and also tends to the preservation of the young. The flexible neck 

 of the larva enables it to reach to a distance equal to a quarter of 

 its body-length, and to fix its mouth upon anything edil)le that is 

 witfiin its reach. I have observed a gradual diminution of the 

 eggs in every cell where the smallness of the working force pre- 

 vented that segregation of the larvre and that assortment accord- 

 ing to size which prevails in large communities; and I have also, 

 in such circumstances, seen full-grown larvae, and even pupaj, fall 

 victims to the voracity of the unfed younger larva3. 



The older larvre are often fed when lying upon their backs, the 

 ventral side serving as a place of deposit for food reached by the 

 curving of the neck, as described for Ponera coarctata by Prof. 

 Wheeler in the Biological Bulletin, Vol. 2, No. 2. But this 

 feeding posture is with Stenamma fulvum picenm scarcely more 

 common than are others. Sometimes one larva is used as a table, 

 not only for its own feeding, but for the feeding of two or three 

 other larvie that are inclined against its sides to take their portion 

 of the same morsel. I have also seen five larvre set on end around 

 half the abdomen of a bisected house-fly, feeding voraciously from 

 its interior, like pigs around a trough. Sometimes the larva is 

 laid with its ventral side against a succulent portion of the insect, 

 and is left there to take its fill; sometimes it has a portion of meat 

 held to its mouth and forcibly removed as soon as it has had a 

 brief repast, and sometimes a worker stands with her head over 

 that of the larva and allows it to take food from her crop in a 

 manner resembling that in which a mother-pigeon feeds her young. 

 In my nests the very young larv?e have been fed solely upon regur- 

 gitated food. The older larvre have been given particles of flies, 

 mealworms, roaches, beetles, spiders, sponge-cake, white bread 

 moistened with sweetened water, and of dried yolk of hens' eggs. 

 They have also fed upon fragments of ants of other species, on 

 pupaj of alien colonies, and on the pup;e and larvic of Cremastogas- 

 ter lineolata and of Lasiiis tunbratiis. 



Larvic deprived wholly of insect food did not during a period of 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 433 



one hundred days produce one pupa. But larvae grew from the 

 egg to nearly full size without insecl food, and one pupa, that later 

 on became a minim, had no insect food during the last twenty-two 

 days of its larval stage. The adult ants appear able to live on 

 indefinitely without insect food ; but there is a noticeable diminu- 

 tion in the number of eggs laid by the queen, and in the number 

 of the larvre simultaneously fed by the workers. I have seen no 

 instance of the eating of members of their own colony by these 

 ants, nor of their feeding their larvji) upon dismembered kin. But 

 they will eat and feed to their larvte the flesh of dismembered alien 

 callows, and probably thickness of integument is all that protects 

 alien adults from being commonly used as food. 



The responsibility taken by the workers in the care of the 

 young may have brought about an incapacity on the part of some 

 of the queens to regurgitate food, and may have disabled them for 

 solitary rearing of the larvre. 



Two sister queens that were taken at swarming on September 17, 

 lived each with a king of another colony until the death of both 

 kings, when I placed them, on November 13, together without 

 workers in a Petri cell where they lived until the following June. 

 The first egg was laid on December 8, and the first larva appeared 

 on December 28, when there were fifteen eggs, cared for by both 

 queens. The queens continued to lay eggs, and young larvte 

 frequently appeared among the eggs, but no larva lived longer 

 than two or three days. Up to April 28, four months after the 

 appearance of the first larva, no larva had been reared in this cell, 

 although more than one brood had meantime been successfully 

 reared in all similar cells where the queens were assisted by 

 workers. I then thoroughly cleaned the cell and replaced the 

 two queens. That same evening two eggs wei'e deposited, and 

 when, on May 7, the eggs had been increased to eleven, I put in 

 two full-grown alien larvie, and later on a white pupa, all of which 

 were accepted by the queens. On "May 24 the pupa became a 

 minor ant, and at once began to assist the queens in the care of 

 the eggs. On May 25 two new larv;c were to be seen among the 

 eggs, and these larvte continued to grow and live. The two intro- 

 duced larva? also thrived, and on June 10 the two queens and 

 three callows were together engaged in tending a promising group 

 of larvte, the first that were reared from eggs in this cell. 

 28 




434 PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['^ll'v, 



Three solitary widowed queens of the five iu my Petri ctills, 

 during four or more months after beginning to lay egg?, failed to 

 rear any larvte, although other queens to the number of seven, at 

 the same time and iu exactly similar conditions, with the exception 

 of having worker-assistants, all reared oue or more broods. The 

 fourth solitarj queen brought up a single male, I myself having 

 given her much help in the feeding of one larva, the sole survivor 

 among many that appeared and perished during four months. 

 The fifth solitary queen had the assistance of workers in rearing 

 her first larvse, and later on when the workers were removed, she 

 indisputably fed and reared larvae all the way from the egg 

 upward. 



The length of the larval period has, iu my uests of Stenamma 

 fiilvum piceiun, as is generally thought to be the case with other 

 ants, been apparently dependent on the amouut and quahty of the 

 food-supply. Between October 27 and May 9 I recorded the 

 beginning and end of the larval stage of twenty-six larvre from 

 queens' eggs. There was one of twenty days, one of twenty-one, 

 one of twenty-two, three of twenty -four, one of twenty- five, one 

 of twenty-six, oue of twenty-seven, four of tweuty-eight, oue of 

 twenty-nine, three of thirty, one of thirty-one, two of forty-two, 

 one of fifty-three, one of eighty-four, three of uinety-three, and 

 one of ninety-seven days' duration. ^11 the larval periods shorter 

 than forty-three days were in domiciles where the queen was pres- 

 ent, and all over forty- three days were in cells where the larvse 

 were reared by workers alone. The assiduity of the worker is even 

 obviously greater when the queen is present. The shortest period 

 recorded was that of the larva iu whose feeding I myself assisted 

 ttie queen. 



The length of the larval period does not determine the sex nor 

 the size of the ant. In the cases above recorded, one larva having 

 a period of twenty, one of thirty and one of ninety-three days 

 all ultimately became males. Oue larva with a period of twenty- 

 four, one of ninety-three and oue of ninety-seven days all ulti- 

 mately became miuims. The only queen hatched iu my uests had 

 a larval period of fifty-three days. A queens' -egg-larva now 

 under the care of three workers in one of my Petri cells has been 

 in the larval stage a hundred and forty days. 



From four to eight days previous to emergence from the larval 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



stage, the larva expels the contents of the alimentary canal, ceases 

 to feed, and changes in color from translucent white with a brown 

 core to creamy and more opaque white. Deprivation of food for 

 some days will cause any half-grown larva to make these prepai*a- 

 tions for becoming a pupa, and minims can be reared at will. 



The larva; are kept resplendently clean by the licking given by 

 the workers. In my nests the workers appeared lo learn a use 

 for the sponge, and when I at various times soiled a larva with 

 stale insect juices, they rubbed it upon the sponge to clean away 

 what they apparently disliked to lick off'. 



Either majors, minors, or minims alone can feed larva?, but in ray 

 Petri cells, where food is always near, they have rarely reared 

 more than three larvae to each adult worker. A minim alone with 

 a queen reared three larvse simultaneously, and five majors together 

 reared sixteen. The anxiety which impels the nurses to lift the 

 immature young whenever the cell is uncovered probably hinders 

 their rearing large numbers in these abodes. When disturbed, 

 the workers first lift the oldest in the nest, the pupte, the larvje or 

 the egg-packet. This order is also followed by the solitary queens. 



After the larvae are large enough to be removed from among 

 the eggs of a packet and to lie separately on the floor, they are so 

 fed as to bring them to about the same size. As the eggs are laid 

 rather regularly, one or two a day, and are nearly equal in their 

 periods of incubation, the larvte, if evenly fed, would reach the 

 pupa stage one by one. But great naturaL possibilities of shorten- 

 ing or prolonging the larval period by increase or diminution of 

 the supplied nutriment, and the method of feeding the larva? so 

 unequally as to keep them nearly equal in size, causes the normal 

 nest to be at times without pupa?, and at times to be destitute of 

 advanced larvte. I have observed in natural nests, and also in my 

 artificial nests, that at times there are a great number of larva? 

 and no pupse, and at times countless pupa? with no advanced 

 larvie. 



The larva? grow to the length of the pupa? perfected within their 

 integument, varying from two to five millimeters. When the thin, 

 transparent-white integument bursts, the ants clean the snow-white 

 naked pupa, and constantly watch over and tend it. Its first color 

 appears in the eye-spots, which are grayish on the third day and 

 brown on the fifth. On the tenth day, with the utmost regularity. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



there is a deposit of pigment on the dorsal side of the largest 

 segments of the abdomen, and tliis color spreads and deepens 

 until, on the twelfth day, the sex of the future ant can thereby 

 be foretold, the worker-pupa being yellowish all over, the male- 

 pupa gray-bodied with white limbs, the queen-pupa mottled brown 

 and orange with yellowish limbs. Two days later the worker-pupa 

 acquires the rich dark amber color which it retains as a callow ; 

 the slate color of the male-pupa deepens to black, and the queen- 

 pupa has the tints of an adult queen. The length of the pupa- 

 stage was ascertained by me for seventy-three pupa, all presumably 

 the issue of queens' eggs, in fifteen different habitations, between 

 January 5 and May 27. I took the time from emergence from 

 the larval sheath to the assumption of the standing posture as the 

 period of pupa-existence. Forty-four of my number proved to be 

 minims, and of these two became such on the fourteenth day, 

 twenty-three on the fifteenth day, and nineteen on the sixteenth 

 day. 



Fourteen became minors, and of these eleven became such on 

 the seventeenth day and three on the eighteenth day. 



Ten became majors, and of these five became such on the nine- 

 teenth day, four on the twentieth day and one on the twenty-first 

 day. 



The pupa-stage of the sixty-eight workers varied, therefore, 

 between thirteen and twenty-two full days; but the minims may 

 be said to have a pupa-period of about fifteen days, the minors a 

 pupa-period of about seventeen days, and the majors a pupa- 

 period of about nineteen days. 



Four of the seventy-three pupte became kings, and of these one 

 became such on the eighteenth day, two on the nineteenth day 

 and one on the twentieth day. 



One only became a queen. She was a pupa nearly seventeen 

 days, and died soon after beginning to walk about among the three 

 workers that reared her from a queen's egg. 



Of some hundreds of larvte that have successfully been reared 

 to the pupa-stage by my captive ants, not more than ten have 

 failed to safely pass the pupa-stage and to live on as ants. The 

 small proportion of deaths among the ant-children, in so unnattiral 

 an environmeut as is created by a glass nest and a human pur- 

 veyor, surely indicates a more than human skill on the part of the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPIIIA. 437 



adults iu their care of the offspring, or else wonderful tenacity of 

 life on the part of the young ants. 



The workers care for the pupfc with the same assiduity that dis- 

 tinguishes their attention to the eggs and the larvte, but this atten- 

 tion does not appear to be necessary to the survival of the pupa?. 

 I isolated ten pupaj in a Petri cell, having the same warmth, 

 moisture, and general environment as had those pupre remaining 

 under the care of the workers, and although half of them were 

 taken from their nurses before any color had been deposited in 

 their integuments, every one of them came safely to the adult- 

 stage. When, as callows, they were one by one returned to their 

 adult kin, they received such an extraordinary amount of licking 

 as to suggest the well-known theory that the pupre exude a sub- 

 stance which is liked by the ants, and that the attention of the 

 latter to the pupre is not wholly altruistic. 



These ants are very cleanly. In every nest where I have long 

 kept them they have chosen a fixed place for the throwing of re- 

 fuse, as remote as possible from the inert young. 



They carry morsels of food and lay them on the sponges, as if 

 with intent to moisten edibles that are too dry for their eating. 



They follow their usual occupations both by day and by night. 

 Individual ants rest sometimes for hours, standing motionless and 

 apparently asleep. I have seen a worker spend more than an 

 hour upon her toilet, combing or licking ever}' part of her body 

 as tar as she could reach. Much willing service is renderd by the 

 adults to each other in the cleaning of their integuments. I saw 

 one worker hold another by a foot, apparently insisting upon such 

 service, which was rendered at intervals and was renewed only 

 when a limb was again nipped, during forty minutes. On the final 

 release of the operator the two ants turned mouth to mouth and 

 one regurgitated food to the other. 



The muscular endurance of these ants seems to be great. They 

 will fight with no cessation during several hours, holding an enemy 

 by a limb or mandible. When the fight is a duel, the stronger ant, 

 or the ant that first succeeds in nipping a leg or an antenna, 

 thereby drags its opponent over objects, itself keeping the higher 

 ground, until the limb is severed. In the Lubbock nests, the 

 stronger fighter always threw the weaker into the moat, either 

 before or after the death of the unfortunate. AVhen a battleground 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



presents a precipice, the attempt to push the enemy over it is 

 always noticeable. The successful use of the sting does not appear 

 to be fatal to an ant-enemy, although it gives pain in the human 

 hand for an hour or more. 



Notwithstanding the general harmony and mutual helpfulness in 

 a colony of Stenamma fulviun 2^i'(^eum, the ants have their indi- 

 vidual quarrels. Three queens had lived by themselves serenely 

 in a Petri cell for five months, giving common care for four 

 months to their single group of eggs, when two of the queens- 

 began a tug of war, standing head to head, one holding the other 

 by a mandible, and dragging or pushing her over and around 

 the sponges. Uncovering the cell, watering the sponges, intro- 

 ducing an alien worker caused no cessation of the fray. The 

 third queen, distinguished from the other two by a fragment of 

 wing on one side, made frequent excursions to inspect the two 

 belligerents, and then returned quickly to continue her care of 

 the eggs. The battle persisted, with biief intervals, for four days, 

 and then one of the two combatants was left on the side of the cell 

 opposite the eggs, and there she remained in isolation for the 

 ensuing ten days. I several times lifted her and placed her close 

 to the other two queens and the eggs, but every time her wingless 

 enemy seized her by the small of her back, carried her across the 

 cell, and cast her down in the place for refuse, or else attacked and 

 drove her back lo her place of banishment. On the eleventh 

 day the banished queen, was permitted to return to her two sister 

 queens and the eggs, but she died on the following afternoon. 



One who watches the proceedings of these ants through many 

 months finds numerous occasions when the sequence of events 

 strongly suggests a designed punishment of individual offenders in 

 the colony. Twice I have seen an assembly of older ants, its 

 members ranged at nearly equal distances, forming a circle with all 

 heads toward the centre, remaining motionless except in vibrations 

 of the antennae or a curious shaking of the abdomen, certainl}^ 

 for some hours, and jirobably for some days. These assemblages 

 were each succeeded by an execution. In the one case an ant was 

 torn asunder and cast in the kitchen-midden. In the other case 

 one ant was dismembered, and another ant picked up the head and 

 thorax of the dismembered victim and carried it about in the food- 

 room. She was carrying it at all the many times when I looked 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



at. her during the succeedipg three days. Of course, the sequences 

 noted may have been merely double coincidences in two unusual 

 proceedings of the ants. 



Both majors and minors among the Stenamma fulvum jiic&um 

 sometimes lay eggs, especially Avhen no queen is present in their 

 habitation. The number of eggs laid is sometimes considerable. 

 I have seen as many as three hundred at once in a nest of fifty 

 workers from which a queen had been for several months absent. 

 One of my Petri cells, in which the eggs of five isolated workers 

 came to the larval stage, indicated that the time of incubation 

 of these eggs may be the same as for queens' eggs, eighteen or 

 nineteen days. The first egg was laid on February 21, the second 

 on February 23, and the eggs were gradually increased to ten. 

 The first larva appeared on the 12th and the second on the 14th 

 of March. 



The larval period of workers' -egg-larvte under the care of 

 workers alone, appears to be much longer than for the queens' - 

 egg-larvre under the care of queens alone, or under the care of 

 queens and workers, or under the care of workers alone. Judging 

 from data recorded from five groups of isolated workers that have 

 been rearing their own progenv in ray nests during ten months, I 

 think these Jarvte sometimes take more thon two hundred days in 

 their growth from egg to pupa. 



The workers' eggs are about half as large as are the queens' 

 eggs; the larvre on issuing from the eggs are but half as large as 

 those issuing from queens' eggs; the pupte are also much smaller 

 than are those of males produced from queens' eggs, and the adult 

 males are dwarfs, being from four to five millimeters in length of 

 body, without the wings. 



A colony captured by me on July 13, 1900, lost its only queen 

 on August 25. It was transferred from a Janet to a new, clean 

 Fielde nest on September 6, and after that date had no communi- 

 cation with any other nest. Between the 17th of the following 

 February and the 7th of June, 1901, twelve dwarf males were 

 successively produced. No ants of any other sort were during 

 four months produced in this queenless colony. All twelve of 

 these dwarf males, with the utmost regularity, showed eyespots and 

 ocelli of pale gray on the third day of pupal existence, and the 

 color deepened to black on the fifth day. On the tenth day the 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



dorsal side of the abdomen became grayish, and on the twelfth 

 day the head, thorax and abdomen were slate color, while the 

 limbs remained white. Thereafter the color deepened to black, 

 and in each of the twelve cases the pupa became an ant on the 

 seventeenth day. 



Four of these dwarf males, that remained during their natural 

 lives with their worker-progenitors, lived respectively fifteen, thirty- 

 two, thirty-four and forty-five days. 



The food which the Stenamina fulvum j^iceum were seen to eat in 

 captivity was, in the order of their apparent preference, fragments 

 of flies, roaches, mealworms, beetles and spiders ; morsels of 

 sponge-cake, white bread moistened with sweetened water or white 

 syrup; apple, banana, boiled sweet-potato ; fat of boiled fresh 

 beef; soft gum-drop, almond paste, pie crust, hickoiy nut and 

 honey. They showed no lively interest in other than insect food 

 of which they had been for some days deprived. They appeared 

 to avoid all raw or cooked meats other than particles of fat. 

 Their liking for a varied diet and their attention to unusual deli- 

 cacies indicate a highly developed sense of taste. 



Though the attitude ordinarily assumed in eating is that of 

 standing on all six legs and lapping the food, I have twice seen 

 an ant stand on four legs, using the front feet to hold an insect- 

 egg to its mouth, suggesting the posture in which a squirrel com- 

 monly eats nuts. 



The amount of food required to sustain life must be small. I 

 isolated sixteen workers in groups in clean Petri cells, containing 

 nothing but sponges that were frequently cleaned with ninety-five 

 per cent, alcohol and then saturated with water. Of these ants one 

 lived five days, five lived six days, two lived seven days, one lived 

 eight days, three lived nine days, one lived twelve days, one sixteen 

 days, one twenty-one days, and one thirty-four days without visible 

 food. That these ants died from starvation and not from other 

 cause was indicated by the conti'ol experiments in which other ants 

 similarly placed, but with a supply of food, continued to live on for 

 months. The ability of Stenamma fulvum to endure starvation 

 is, however, exceeded by the less active Formica fusca and the 

 sluggish Ponera coardata, one of the former haviag lived in my 

 Petri cell forty-one days, and one of the latter forty-three days, 

 ■without visible food. Formica sanguinea shows lesser tenacity of 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 441 



life, as uoue of several subject to the same experimeut lived more 

 than six days. 



The Stenamma fulvum jylceum also meet extreme cold with impu- 

 nity. At about 50° F. , or 10° C. , they become sluggish, remaiu- 

 iug almost or quite motionless in their usual attitudes. I froze a 

 two-queen colony fur twenty-four hours, the thermometer going 

 down to 23° F. , or 5° C. On gradually thawing the ants, all 

 survived, including callows but two days old, and the fi'ozen 

 pupa', larvte and eggs developed perfectly later on. Another 

 small colony was frozen continuously for five days, the thermome- 

 ter going down to 15° F., or 10° C. The queen and all ihe 

 workers survived thawing, but a fifth of the workers died soon 

 after, and the queen, who had previously laid eggs almost daily 

 for five months, laid no egg thereafter for eighteen days. 



It is probable that these ants, being highly thermotactic, seek 

 the deeper, warmer recesses of their nests in the ground in autumn, 

 and there hibernate until the warmth of spring draws them toward 

 the surface. 



The color of these ants manifestly deepens with age. The newly 

 hatched callows are translucent amber. The brown tint of the 

 adult first begins lo appear on the dorsal side of the largest seg- 

 ments of the abdomen. Some of the majors have already this 

 beginning of brown coloration before they pass the pupa stage. 

 The head, which is throughout life darker than the thorax, takes 

 on color next after the abdomen. In three or four mouths the 

 young worker has the color of an adult, but very old ants, queens 

 as well as workers, attain deeper shades of brown with passing 

 years. The males are fully colored, a glossy jet black, even before 

 leaving the puj^a stage. 



I have not yet the data from which to draw conclusions concern- 

 ing the longevity of queens and workers, though I have those in 

 my nests that are certainly over one year old. The shorter-lived 

 males have furnished me the following record relating to their 

 longevity : 



Longevity Table for 20 males, i^resumahly the issue of queens* eggs. 



«. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony, iso- 

 lated with queen of another colouy in a Petri cell, 

 lived 5 daj's. 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



h. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony, iso- 

 lated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell, 

 lived 7 days. 



c. Swarmed S^ptembsr 17 from roadside colony, iso- 



lated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell. 



lived 13 " 



d. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony, iso- 



lated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell, 



lived 20 " 



e. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colonv, iso- 



lated with queen of another colony in a Peti'i cell, 



lived ' 20 " 



/. Swarmed September 17 from roadside colony, iso- 

 lated with queen of another colony in a Petri cell, 

 lived 102 " 



(J. Captured September 11 from nest in woods, iso- 

 lated with queen of another colony, lived . . . 18 " 



h. Captured September 11 from nest in woods, iso- 

 lated with (|ueen of another colony, lived. . . 19 " 



i. Captured September 11 from nest in woods, isolated 



with queen of another colony, lived .... 19 " 



j. Captured September 11 from nest in woods, isolated 



with queen of another colony, lived, .... 40 " 



k. Hatched in Fielde ant-huuse, November 22, lived 



with his sister-workers, no queen, lived ... 14 " 



/. Hatched in Fielde ant-house, November 22, remained 



there with queen-mother and workers, lived . . 24 " 



m. Hatched in Fielde ant-house, November 22, domi- 

 ciled with sister- workers, no queen, lived . . 40 " 



n. Hatched in Fielde ant-house, November 27, domi- 

 ciled with sister-workers, lived 42 " 



0. Hatched iu Fielde ant-house, November 27, re- 

 mained there with mother-queen and workers, 

 lived 72 " 



p. Hatched in Fielde ant-house, December 1, domi- 

 ciled with sister-workers, no queen, lived ... 87 " 



q. Hatched in Fielde ant-house, December 1, remained 



there with mother-queen and workers, lived . 100 " 



The king that lived longest, having been taken at the swarming, 

 must have lived considerably more than 102 days, and his resi- 

 dence with a queeu did not manifestly shorten his days. 



The history of this little pair illustrates interesting traits of these 

 ants. The two were taken from different colonies on a sunny 

 morning after heavy rain, September 17, 1900. They were 

 immediately placed l)y themselves in a Petri cell, and were at once 




1001.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



frieuclly. The courtship or honeymoon was distinguished by 

 mutual devotion. The one was rarely beyond the touch of the 

 other, and the satisfaction of the two in tlieir companionship Avas 

 apparently equal. If the queen moved the king usually followed. 

 If the king failed in constancy of attention to her, the queen 

 approached and by a side stroke of her antenna made him aware 

 of herself. This queen was exceptional in retaining all her wings 

 until after she deposited her first two eggs, on the 15th of Novem- 

 ber, two months after swarming. She had laid twenty-eight eggs 

 before she lost the wings of one side, on December 7, and she laid 

 many more before her last wing fell off in January. 



From the time of first egg laying, the king and queen both 

 watched over the eggs, one of them remaining on guard when 

 the other went to the opposite side of the cell to eat. The king 

 watched over the eggs in the absence of the queen, but he never 

 lifted them nor carried them about as did the queen. 



On the death of the king, December 28, after more than a 

 hundred days of wedlock, as he lay prone on his back with out- 

 spread wings, the queen piled her twenty eggs upon him, and hung 

 over the body persistently. On ensuing days I separated the 

 body, the queen and the eggs, first by a distance of a half-inch, 

 then of an inch, then of two inches, then of three inches, and in 

 a few hours after each separation the queen had brought the body 

 and the eggs again together and stood with her head lowered over 

 them, her mouth usually near the king's mouth. On the fifth day 

 after his death, I moved his body to the opposite side of the cell, 

 and separated it from the eggs by an inti'icate route between the 

 sponges. The distracted queen at once set out iu search of her 

 treasures, and in her efforts during the next two days to bring the 

 body and the eggs together, she so scattered the eggs that, fearing 

 the loss of them, I took out the shriveled body, collected the eggs, 

 and left the queen alone with them in a cleaned cell. 



Two males, one the issue of a workers' egg, the other of a 

 queens' egg, were later on introduced separately into her cell, aud 

 were killed and dismembered by her. 



The queen continued to lay eggs, and the eggs at frequent inter- 

 vals produced larva?, but this queen was evidently unable to feed 

 her young larvce, and I had no workers of her own colony to 

 offer her. Up to the end of May, 1901, she continued to lay 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['l^ulv, 



eggs and the young larvaj continued to perish. Meantime two of 

 her eggs, given on January 31 to the care of three alien workers 

 living in a cell by themselves, had producea one queen and one 

 king. 



After four months of failure had sufficiently shown the inability 

 of this queen to alone rear her larvse, I attempted to reconcile her 

 to alien helpers, putting in at different times from other colonies five 

 young workers of ages varying from a few days to a few hours, and 

 all were killed by her, or were removed on account of endangering 

 her life. One callow minor, after having been nine days in the 

 cell with the queen, nipped her so viciously and tenaciously that I 

 could release her only by decapitating her enemy. The mutual 

 fear and hostility of the queen and the alien workers, with the 

 common desire to possess and care for the eggs, always resulted in 

 the scattering and eventual loss of the eggs. 



However, two other alien workers, one minor and one minim, 

 introduced into the cell when but a few hours old, after several 

 days' residence with the queen and numerous timid tentative 

 approaches, perfectly affiliated with her. She laid no eggs there- 

 after until the ninth day in an eggless cell, and then she continued 

 to lay an egg or two daily, to be picked up and taken care of by 

 her adopted callows. Two white pupa3 were also introduced into 

 the eggless cell and there became ants, and in June the long 

 solitary and childless queen had four devoted workers caring for 

 her own young larvpe. 



Ants have great aptitude in the recognition of their kin of the 

 same colony. A colony found in the woods just previous to its 

 swarming, on September 7, 1900, was divided and placed in two 

 nests, C-e and C-d, each with one queen. After eight months of 

 separation, ants brought together from the two nests j^erfectly and 

 immediately affiliated. 



Sister-queens of this colony, kept apart in Petri cells with a few 

 workers to June 17, 1901, were after nine months' separation 

 from their colony, received back with distrust. They were nabbed 

 and held by the workers, but they were themselves quiescent. 

 The attacks of the workers were hesitating and tentative, and after 

 they had passed their autennte over the whole body of the visiting 

 queen, they left her alone. After a few hours in the nest, she was 

 beside her former associate, and the svorkers w'ere gathered around 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrHIA. 445 



the two ill the manuer usual witli colonies that have two esteemed 

 (jueetis. 



That the recognition of the ants is not personal is proven by 

 the following fact: Workers hatched in nest C-c during the first 

 half of ISToveraber, 1900, were isolated in nest A-a, while workers 

 hatched in nest C-d during the same period of time were isolated 

 in nest A~b. The two sections C-e and C-d had each its own 

 queen, workers and young, and there was no communication 

 between the two nests after the division of the original colony on 

 September 7. Between nests A-a and A-h there was no com- 

 munication, and these two nests contained workers only. The 

 workers of nest A-a had never during their active lives met those 

 in A-b nest until six mouths after they all became ants, when I 

 put them together in a Petri cell. There was at first an exhibi- 

 tion of mutual distrust, and even of animosity, which gradually 

 disappeared when the antennae had been passed over the bodies of 

 the strangers, and in a half-hour all were amicably congregated 

 in a single group. 



These ants have a habit of bringing their bodies to a low level, 

 stretching their legs wide asunder, and creeping slowly up to an ob- 

 ject of suspicion, in a manner that is quite catlike in its stealthiuess; 

 and this mode of appnmching was often used toward the straugei's, 

 after the antennte had once touched. 



I also transferred pupie fnmi C-d nest to the care of queens of 

 other colonies, and left them there in the care of aliens until they 

 became ants and reached the age of about sixteen days. On 

 returning these callows to the C-d nest, which they had left as 

 pupa3, they exhibited great fear of their relatives and hosts, sought 

 to stay in parts of the nest most remote from the resident com- 

 munity, hid themselves, and showed all the trepidation usual in 

 ants that are put into a nest of aliens. On the other hand, the 

 resident ants made no unfriendly demonstrations toward the new- 

 coniers, and aft^r these callows were forced iui;o association with 

 them by confinement with a few of the adults in a small space, 

 the callows lost their fears and thereafter mingled freely and hap- 

 pily with all in the nest. In less than a day they were incor- 

 porated in the community where they accomplished their larval 

 career. 



Callows of the same stock, C-d, of the same age and the same 




446 mocKEDixos of the academy of [-July, 



rearing as the above, were introduced the same day into an abso- 

 lutely alien community, B-b, were instantly attacked, and were 

 dismembered and then fed to the larvjc or eaten ])y the ants. 



Four adult workers, two majors and two minors, that I took in 

 August, 1900, from an apple-core by the roadside and isolated in 

 a Petri cell, on December 4 killed two alien callows that had just 

 come from the pupa-stage in C-d nest. The next day they 

 received three amber pup;c from C-d nest, and one of these pup»? 

 that same day became an ant, and of it the adult ants appeared 

 to be very fond. On the 6th and 8th of December they killed 

 two of its sisters, introduced when but a few hours old into their 

 cell. On December 9, when the callow hatched in this cell was 

 four days old, I put in an ant only seven hours old, also from the 

 C-d nest. The four-day-old callow was the first to meet the baby 

 ant in the Petri cell. It licked its junior from end to end, and 

 Avhen the adults repeatedly approached and snapped with their 

 mandibles at the latest comer, the older callow stood over and 

 appeared to wittingly protect the younger. It then picked up the 

 baby ant, which was a minim quite as large as itself, and carried 

 it into the shade of the sponge where two pupre were attended by the 

 adult ants. There it stood between the adults and the baby, giving 

 attention alternately to it and to the pupj^e, and often touching the 

 adults with its antennre, until after many minutes the adults left 

 all to its care. From that time the adults showed no further hostil- 

 ity toward the younger minim, and it continued to live in that cell. 



While it is generally true thai Stenamma fulvuni pieeum will cap- 

 ture and care for the eggs, larvre and pupre of alien colonies, they 

 do not invariably rear these to adult life. 



A queen alone will not usually accept any worker from an alien 

 colony, but persistent effort may induce her to accept a very young 

 worker. 



A queen alone with her eggs will not usually accept alien pupa?. 

 She carries them away and casts them in her rubbish heap. But 

 if alien larvic are introduced she will accept them, and then she 

 will later on accept ])upro from the same stock. She will at any 

 time accept alien eggs. 



Queens assisted by numerous workers will receive alien eggs, 

 larvic or pupaj, separately or together, the workers assuming 

 immediate charge of them. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



I have seen queeulcss workers break up and feed alieu j)upie to 

 the larvie they were roaring, but wlieu they had no larva- they 

 took excellent care of pupa^ from the same alien stock. As one 

 pupa will furnish an ample meal to a great number of larvie, there 

 may be much economy in thus utilizing an alien pupa that appears 

 unseasonably in their nursery. 



An exj^lanatiou of the somewhat erratic behavior (»f the ants 

 toward alien young will be suggested in a subsequent paragraph. 



In many of the experiments made to test the power of these ants 

 in recognizing those of their own colony, I used a small number 

 of ants in each cell, and, without marking the ants, I could, by 

 choosing those of one shade from one colony and those of another 

 shade from another colony, always identify the colony to which 

 any ant used in the experiment had originally belonged, and could 

 invariably return her to her own. 



The power of Stenamma fidvum piceum to recognize another of 

 her own colony is not destroyed by freezing and thawing either 

 one or both of the individuals. 



Neither is it destroyed by merging one or both for an instant in 

 alcohol, in diluted oil of anise-seed or of bergamot, in tincture of 

 valerian or of asafoetida. The adult workers will survive dipping 

 in eighty per cent, alcohol or in the above-mentioned oils and tinc- 

 tures duly diluted. On returning the dipped workers to their 

 colony they are nut attacked as are aliens, though they may be for 

 a time avoided, and on recovering from the bath they join their 

 comrades in the common vocations of the nest. 



I repeated one of the experiments of Bethe and obtained with 

 my ants results similar to his. When I mashed ants of colony 

 C—e and with the juices thus obtained smeared ants of the alien 

 colony B-b, the C—e colony received the smeared ants without hos- 

 tility, and the smeared ants exhibited the trepidation usual at 

 finding themselves in an alien nest. Likewise, ants from the C-e 

 colony, freshly smeared with the juices of B-b ants, were not 

 attacked in the B-b nest, but they were evidently terrified in being 

 there. 



I then smeared a small number of B-b ants with the juices of 

 C-e ants, and put them into a new Petri cell with an equal number 

 of uusmeared C-e ants; and I smeared a small number of C-e 

 ants with the juices of B-b ants and put them into a new Petri 




4i8 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



cell with au equal uumber of unsmeared B-h ?lwU. In no ease 

 did the unsmeared ants attack the ants that had been merged in the 

 juices of their kin; but the smeared ants attacked the unsmeared 

 ants as they commonly attacked aliens. The smeared ants never 

 attacked each other. 



After a worker had been smeared in the juices of ants of an 

 alien colony and then isolated for about thirty hours it was 

 returned to its colony, and every worker that touched it with the 

 antennaj started back in alarm, but it was not attacked nor 

 harmed. The juices probably wore off gradually, since smeared 

 workers returned to their colony after one week of isolation were 

 received with no sign of distrust. 



A queen that had for over three months peacefully shared the 

 cell and labors of a sister-queen and five workers was smeared with 

 the juices of aliens and at once returned to the cell. She was 

 immediately attacked by the workers as if she were an alien. 

 She evinced dread and submission in the usual manner of these 

 ants by cowering low, tightly shutting her mandibles, folding her 

 antenure and holding them close down upon her head. Three 

 Avorkers together attacked her, but the attacks were intermittent, 

 and she soon crept up to her sister-queen. The queen prodded he 

 curiously with the ends of the antenuit and showed no animosity. 

 Then a worker came and nabbed her in places and licked her in 

 places, as though she was a composite of alien and kin. She was 

 kept aloof from the group for a day or two and then resumed 

 without harm her former associations. 



Workers merged in alien juices were likewise attacked on being 

 restored to their kiu, but the attacks were not persistent and 

 none were slain. The losses of life or limbs all occurred through 

 the attacks of the smeared workers upon the aliens, among whom 

 they were as wolves in sheep's clothing. The smeared ants, in 

 spite of their disguise, must have retained some evidences of their 

 lineage which protected them from extreme violence. 



When two parties, each consisting of several workers that had 

 been merged in the juices of the kiu of the other party, were 

 placed together in a new Petri cell, there were no violent attacks 

 from either side during the first two or three days. A tendency to 

 congregate according to colony showed itself from the beginning, 

 but by keeping the cell clean and preventing separate settlement of 




1901,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



the two parties I secured the safety of both for eight days. When 

 I put in larvaB there was strife for its possession, and at the end of 

 tl|iree weeks the only survivor of one party defended the larvai 

 against the sole survivor of the other party that, with but five 

 legs and a single antenna, still made stealthy approaches toward 

 the coveted young. 



My observations of Stenamma Julvum piceum sustain the usual 

 view that ants have an inherent and hereditary odor, or something 

 akin to odor, whereby they are identified as friends or enemies, and 

 that they impart this odor to places which they frequent. All the 

 phenomena that I have observed in the lives of Stenamma Julvum 

 piceum indicate that the distinctive odor may appear first in the 

 larvoe, and a little less faintly in the pupre; that it intensifies with 

 age as does the color; that the sensitivity of the queen to this odor 

 is greater than is that of the workers; that any distinctive odor 

 to wliich an ant is accustomed and with which it associates secu- 

 rity and satisfaction is attractive to it, while ant-odors to which it 

 is unaccustomed excite alarm and hostility in proportion to their 

 strangeness. For such causes, ants that have come from the eggs 

 of colony M and in their pupa-stage were transferred to colony N, 

 while they affiliate perfectly with the iVants that they live among, 

 quickly recognize the odor of the M ants because it is their own. 

 As to the origin of the distinctive colony odor, it appears possi- 

 ble that it may be traced to a king. 



Among Stenamma Julvum j^i^eum there are difiereuces in indi- 

 vidual traits. Some are more truculent than are others of their 

 sex, age and size; or are more assiduous in their attention to the 

 young; or more devoted to the queen or the males; or more grega- 

 rious in habit; or more attached to the home ; or more hostile toward 

 aliens. Every characteristic of a typical Stenamma Julvum piceum 

 appears strongly in certain individuals and is comparatively weak 

 in others. 



The increasing tameness of my captive ants has been observable. 

 After some months of acquaintance, these ^Nlyrmicid ants have 

 wholly ceased to sting me when I handle them. 



So domesticated have they become in their artificial nests that 

 they rarely run outside their houses w'hen uncovered, and the 

 accustomed routine of cleaning their dwellings agitates them 

 scarcely at all. 

 29 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



CRYSTALLINE AND CRYSTALLOIDAL SUBSTANCES AND THEIR 

 RELATION TO PLANT STRUCTURE. 



BY HENRY KRAEMER, PH.D. 



Nageli and Schwendener,^ in the preface to their chapter on mor- 

 phology, give us probably the most comprehensive idea of the scope 

 of the subject. They say: " Zur Morphologic im weiteren Sinue 

 des Wortes gehort die ganze Lehre vom Aufbau der Oganismen 

 aus den Elementen, woraus sie bestehen — von den Micellen, 

 welche die Bausteine der Zellen bilden, bis hinauf zu den Einhei- 

 ten der hochsten und letzten Ordnung, Avelche den vielfach 

 gegliederten Bau der hohern Gewilchse zusammensetzen. Die 

 Morphologic hat zu ermitteleu, unter welchen bestimmten Form — 

 und Lagerungsverhiiltnissen die Micellen und Micellarschichten 

 sich vereinigen, um die Zelle und deren Theile zu bilden und 

 wiihrend des AVachsthums weiter aufzubauen; sie hat hierauf die 

 Zelle als gegebeu zu betrachten und zu untersuchen nach welchen 

 Gesetzen die Vermehrung derselben erfolgt, wie gleichsam Zelle 

 auf Zelle gesetzt wird, um die grossen Complexe zu bilden, die wir 

 als Organe kennen; sie hat ferner dir Differenzierungen zu verfol- 

 gen, welche in solchen Zellencomplexen nachtriiglich stattfindeu, 

 und endlich auch die Entwicklung neuer Organe aus schon vor- 

 handenen, sowie die Natur und Stellungsverhaltnisse derselben in 

 Belracht zu ziehen." 



As a result of having given considerable attention to what might 

 be termed the morphology of plant constituents and having made 

 a number of observations while trying to produce artificially from 

 chemical solutions crystalline and crystalloidal substances resem- 

 bling those formed naturally in the plant, such as calcium salts, 

 inulin, hesperidin, etc., a number of questions have arisen in the 

 author's mind concerning morphological development which are 

 set forth in this pa2:)er. 



Sphere-crystals are spherical aggregates of crystals with sharp 



1 Das Mikroskop, von Carl Niigeli und S. Schwendener. Zweite Auflage. 

 Leipzig : William Engehuann, 1877, p. 532. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 451 



augular contours which are made up of but one substance, the 

 molecule of which is simple, or at least not very complex. This 

 class includes carbon compounds as well as inorganic substances. 

 Of these may be mentioned calcium phosphate, calcium carbonate, 

 calcium oxalate, amygdalin, strychnine, berberine, etc. Some of 

 these compounds are soluble in water while others are not, hence 

 we may say that there are both soluble and insoluble sphere-crys- 

 tals. As examples of the former may be mentioned the glucosides 

 and alkaloidal salts, while as examples of the latter we have cal- 

 cium phosphate and oxalate, the alkaloids, etc. 

 ""The spherites resemble somewhat the sphere -crystals, but are 

 distinguished from them by the fact that they have a more com- 

 plex composition and the individual crystals have either a somewhat 

 rounded outline or are imbedded in colloidal substances in which 

 the ^crystalline or crystalloidal character is more or less obscured 

 and hence with difficulty discerned. 



The spherites also admit of a classification into soluble and 

 insoluble bodies. The soluble spherites, or those directly soluble 

 in water, include hesperidin, inuliu and allied carbohydrates, and 

 their crystalline character is most apparent when the specimens are 

 dehydrated with alcohol. 



The insoluble spherites are not directly soluble in water, but may 

 be reudei'ed so by treatment with certain reagents. These include 

 starch and the fundamental substances entering into the composi- 

 tion of the cell-wall. The spherite character of these substances 

 is not at once apparent, but can be demonstrated by the use of 

 reagents which cause a swelling of the substances in the starch - 

 grain or in the cell wall. In a paper' communicated to the Society 



'•^ See also Journal of American Chemical Society, 1899, p. 650, and 

 American Journal of Pharmacy, 1899, p. 174. The following are the re- 

 agents that were used : 



(1) Chloral iodine + iodine solution ; of each 5 parts. 



(2) Chlor-zinc-iodide solution. 



(3) Chromic acid solution (15 per cent. )• 



(4) Calcium nitrate solution (30 per cent.). 



(5) Chloral solution (saturated), water and glycerin ; of each 5. parts. 

 To this solution as much iodine is added as the solution will take up. 



(6) Saliva. 



(7) Silver nitrate (2 per cent.). 



(8) Sulphuric acid (C. P. acid 90 parts and water 10 parts). 



(9) Taka-diastase (saturated solution). 



(10) Sodium acetate solution (50 per cent.). 



(11) Potassium hydrate solution (y^ of 1 per cent.). 




452 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



of Plant Morphology and Phj^siology, 1899, the author enumer- 

 ated the substances which could be used to bring out the spherite 

 structure in the starch-grain. The same kind of reagents, but in 

 stronger solutions, may be used to bring out the spherite structure 

 in the wall of thickened parenchyma cells, as endosperm, or 

 lignified cells, as stone cells. In eases where the cell-wall has been 

 metamorphosed into mucilage, simple treatment with water, as has 

 also been shown with the starch-grain, is sufficient to bring out 

 the structure.* The reason that this structure is not apparent 

 under natural conditions is because the refractive properties of the 

 crystalloidal substance so nearly resembles that of the associated 

 colloid. The use of certain reagents, however, which are more or 

 less penetrating in their action, cause an imbibition of water by 

 the colloidal portions with consequent swelling of the grain, or cell- 

 wall, and a contrast in refractive power with the more insoluble 

 and hence unaffected crystalloidal substances. 



Sphere-crystals are further distinguished from spherites in that 

 the latter are capable of taking up or holding certain coloring 

 principles, as safranin, gentian violet, etc. It is questionable, 

 however, if the crystalloids contained in the spherite take up the 

 coloring matters, it being probable that the colloid associated with 

 the crystalloid is the portion that is colored, as I -have already 

 shown in my studies on the structure of the starch-grain. 



In the cell-wall the crystalloids occur in very close radial and 

 tangential rows and constitute by far the greater proportion of the 

 wall. In the starch-grain, on the other hand, there is apparently 

 a greater preponderance of colloidal matter which takes up certain 

 stains. This layering, which is well marked in the starch-grain, 

 is scarcely distinguishable in the cell-wall. The reason that it is 

 not so well marked in the cell-wall is because of the difference in 

 amount of the crystalloidal and colloidal substances, the close 

 arrangement of the crystalloids and also the difficulty of obtaining 

 uniform microscopical sections, as can be readily obtained with the 

 starch-grain, 



(12) Potassium nitrate solutiou (saturated). 



(13) Taunin solution. 



(14) Potassium phosphate solution (saturated). 



(15) Hydrochloric acid (5 per cent.). 



(16) Water between the temperatures of 50- C. and 70^ C. 



^ This wouUl tend to show that the crystalline structure is not due to the 

 precipitation of substances by the reagents used. 




190].] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



The structure, as well as the mode of formation, of spherites 

 and sphere-(!rystals is apparently the same. The mode of forma- 

 tion is, furthermore, apparently the same whether observed in 

 nature or as carried on artificially. The different stages in their 

 natural formation can be followed comparatively easily in those 

 parts of plants containing hespcridin (as the epicarp of citrous 

 fruits) or inulin (as roots of artichoke, etc.). It is interesting to 

 compare these crystals or spherites with those formed artificially 

 by evaporation of solutions of inulin or hesperidin. It is also 

 instructive to compare the natural oxalates, phosphates, and car- 

 bonates of calcium Avith those formed artificially by precipitation of 

 soluble calcium salts with alkaline oxalates, phosphates or car- 

 bonates. 



After a comparison of the artificially produced spherites or 

 sphere- crystals with those formed naturally in the plant, one cannot 

 but conclude that there is a play of similar forces in their forma- 

 tion. 



Furthermore, if we examine the crystal masses remaining in a 

 watch-crystal after the spontaneous evaporation of solutions of 

 various substances, under varying conditions of temperature, etc., 

 we observe not only the formation of crystals which resemble those 

 produced in the plant cell, but other rather striking forms of com- 

 bination which are very suggestive indeed; leading one to a com- 

 parison of the arrangement of the products of crystallization with 

 the apparent multiplicity of forms found in plant life. Indeed, 

 the arrangement of the crystals in such a watch-crystal reminds 

 one of the appearance of our woods in winter, when the absence 

 of leaves permits the observance of fundamental lines of develop- 

 ment in shrubs and trees. 



If we take an alum solution (such as a Delafield's H^matoxylon 

 Solution), dilute it with water and allow it to evaporate sponta- 

 neously in a watch-crysl al, the result will be the formation of con- 

 centric rows of acicular crystals Avhich show an analogy to the 

 structure of the wheat starch-grain after treatment with the re- 

 agents mentioned. 



The crystalline residue from a cocaine solution resembles a group 

 of sclerenchyma cells in transverse section, the individual sphere- 

 crystals resembling single cells, the portion corresponding to the 

 wall being made up of radiating acicular crystals which even join 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



with those of the adjoining sphere-crystals. The latter arrange- 

 ment may be likened to the pores in such thickened cell-walls. 



A resemblance to the wav}' contour of the walls of transverse 

 sections of epidermal cells is exhibited in the residue formed by 

 the evaporation of bruciue solutions. 



The iufoldiugs in the parenchyma cells in piue stems and leaves 

 is exemplified in the arrangement of the crystals which result from 

 the evaporation of solutions of amygdalin. 



From solutions of caffeine hydrobromate there separate crystals 

 which in abundance and in arrangement resemble a dense mycelial 

 development of penicillium with conidia. 



The crystalline residue from solutions of berberine shows a 

 marked resemblance to the outer morphology of certain Lycopc- 

 diums, species of Juniper and other similar arborescent plants. 

 Illustrations of this kind could be multiphed Avhich would lend to 

 show a relationship between the form of crystalline groups and 

 the ultimate arraugetnent of the substances entering into the com- 

 position of the plant. 



The chemist has considered but one phase of the subject of 

 crystallization, namely, the form and nature of individual crystals. 

 The botanist, however, until recently has considered the aggre- 

 gation of morphological units, as is evidenced in his studies od the 

 outer and inner morphology of plants. But as the form and 

 nature of the individual units are seen to depend more or less upon 

 the nature of the substances comprising them, it becomes of fun- 

 damental importance to study the composition of these units in 

 their relation to form and structure. 



In the case of inorganic bodies chemical as well as physical tests 

 are necessary to prove the identity of a substance. In the organ- 

 ized, or organic, world it has been impossible to define a si^ecies or 

 designate the limitations of a species because our studies have been 

 directed almost entirely to the outer morphology of individuals , 

 rather than to the study of the substances which, grouped 

 together, form these individuals and the physical and chemical 

 forces underlying their structural arrangements. 



The same substance may under different conditions develop 

 different outer forms, as, for example, alum may crystallize in 

 monoclinic prisms, hexagonal prisms, or in arborescent forms or 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



spliere-crystals. Chemical tests are necessary to prove the identity 

 of the substance in these various forms. 



Not all substances, however, show this tendency to variation in 

 form of crystals, as, for example, caffeine, berberine, and still 

 other substances which show a tendency to uniformity in general 

 outhne. 



If, then, there is so much variation in the form and arrangement 

 of crystals of the same substance when artificially formed, to 

 what extent may not variation in form take place in bodies of 

 complex composition and therefore influenced by comj)lex attrac- 

 tions and repulsions ? Now while we see in the crystal a decided 

 tendency to uniformity of structure under similar conditions, yet, 

 admitting of modifications under varying conditions, we must 

 allow that in organized structures this tendency to uniformity is 

 modified over and over again. 



In the plant world similar variations are observed, not only in 

 forms of the elements (roots, stem, leaves, flowers, fruits and 

 seeds) comprising the individual, but also in cell-contents. In 

 some so-called species individuals vary greatly as regards form of 

 elements, as in oaks, violets, etc. In others a constancy is 

 observed, as in Enjthronium. In still others a variation in the 

 form assumed of some of the cell- contents is observed, as in the 

 crystals of calcium oxalate in Datura stranioniitm,^ while in other 

 crystals a constancy of form is observed, as with calcium oxalate 

 in the genus Viola. Even in the study of starch-grains one 

 observes a constancy in the form of the grains in all plants. 

 There is, however, a sufficient modification in some of the grains 

 in the reserve underground parts of such plants as potato, maranta, 

 etc., to justify one in pronouncing on the origin of the starch. 

 The same may be said of other substances, as calcium oxalate, 

 inulin and other carbohydrates, etc. 



^ The selection of certain constant forms of cell-contents or of cell- 

 walls would appear to be of as much, or greater, importance in 

 designating the limitations of a species as the outer form of ele- 

 ments, which it is evident are dependent upon the arrangement of 

 aggregates of substances making up the individual. As this 

 arrangement is due, on the one hand, to the chemical factors, food 



* The author, Proc. Amer. Assoc, for Add. of Science, 1899 ; see also 



Bulletin of Torrey Botanical Club, 1899. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juljr 



and air, and, on the other, to the physical factors, light and tem- 

 perature, variations are bound to occur. If, however, these varia- 

 tions are constant for a series of successive generations and can be 

 demonstrated in cell-contents, cell-walls and cell-functions, then a 

 species has been formed, but not otherwise. 



In the inorganic world, as we well know, physical and chemical 

 tests both are oftentimes necessary to prove the identity or specific 

 nature of a substance. Likewise in the biological world physical 

 and chemical tests of cell-contents, cell- walls and the products of 

 cell-function are necessary to establish the specific character of an 

 individual. 



The author desires to acknowledge his indebtedness to Florence 

 Yaple, of Philadelphia, for valuable assistance in the preparation* 

 of this paper. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



THE NASAL PASSAGES OF THE FLORIDA ALLIGATOR. 

 BY ALBERT M. REESE, PH.D. 



The material upon which the followiog work was done was 

 received by the writer from southern Georgia, about the first of 

 August, whence it had been sent by express to Baltimore.^ It 

 consisted of about thirty eggs of Alligator mississipplensls, most of 

 which contained embryos in an advanced stage of development. 

 These embryos were fixed in Kleinberg's dilute picro -sulphuric 

 mixture, giving a fair fixation, and were stained in borax carmine 

 and Lyon's blue. Serial sections w^ere cut through the head in 

 transverse, horizontal and sagittal planes. Although the structure 

 of the nasal cavity, even of so advanced an embryo, cannot be 

 taken to represent that of the adult, there have been so few figures 

 of this character published that the following account may be of 

 interest. 



As may be seen from Plate XXIV, figs, la and 16, the embryo 

 is in an advanced state of development, and already shows distinct 

 reptilian characters. The first series of sections (figs. 2a-l) was 

 cut at right angles to the long axis of the snout of the embryo 

 (fig. lb, x-y), or rather it was intended to be an exactly trans- 

 verse series but, by faulty orientation, the sections were so cut that 

 the right side is inclined, somewhat, toward the base of the snout. 

 This departure from the exact transverse position is the cause of 

 the lack of symmetry in the two sides of the nasal cavity, as seen 

 in this series of sections. Fig. 2a represents a section through 

 the tip of the upper jaw. On the left it passes through the ex- 

 treme edge of the wall of the nasal cavity, while on the right side, 

 which is nearer the base of the snout, it cuts through the right 

 nasal aperture, r.n.a. Near the centre of the section is seen the 

 extreme tip of the nasal cartilage, n.c. The body wall, h.w., in 

 this section, as in all following sections, is represented by a heavy 

 black line. 



^American Naturalist, VoL XXXV, No. 411, pp. 193-195. 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



Fig. 26 is somewhat further from the tip of the suout and cuts 

 through the extreme point of the lower jaw, l.j. On either side 

 of the large, median, nasal cartilage, n.c, is seen the nasal canal, 

 l.n.c. and r.yi.c. On the left, the canal is, at this point, somewhat 

 circular in cross section, while on the right, which, it will l)e 

 remembered, is nearer to the base of the snout, the canal is more 

 elongated in a dorso-veutral direction. The walls of the nasal 

 passages are lined with cilia, and are, in most places, many cells 

 thick. On account of the low magnification used, no attempt has 

 been made to represent the cilia and cell outlines in these figures. 

 The collections of cells, t.r., in this and the following sections are 

 the rudiments of the teeth. At the point represented in fig. 2e, 

 the nasal cartilage, ?i.c., has increased considerably in extent and 

 almost completely surrounds the nasal passages on each side. In 

 this and the following two sections, the plate of cartilage, b. , which 

 lies ventral to the nasal passage on each side, seems no longer to 

 be continuous with the vertical septum, s., as in the preceding 

 figure, although it is still in close contact with it. The nasal 

 canals are drawn out, in this section, in a ventro-lateral direction, 

 until their passages are reduced to mere slits. The passage on the 

 right is drawn out, laterally, toward a small group of cells, r.n.g., 

 the apparent rudiment of one of the nasal glands. The teeth 

 rudiments, t.r., are seen in both upper and lower jaws, in the 

 former of which they are very large, in proportion to the size of 

 the jaw. The cartilages of the lower jaw are seen on each side, 

 m.c. 



In fig. 2d the nasal canals are still more closely invested by the 

 nasal cartilages. On the right, the section passes through the open- 

 ing of the right nasal gland, r.n.g., into the nasal passage of the 

 •corresponding side. On the left side of the section is seen the left 

 nasal gland, l.n g., cut in front of its opening into the uasal pas- 

 sage, that is, between this opening and the tip of the suout. In 

 all the following figures anterior will mean toward the tip of the 

 snout, posterior will meau toward the base of the snout or of the 

 head. 



Fig. 2e is a short distance posterior to the last figure. On the 

 right it passes through the extreme anterior edge of the right eye, 

 c, while on the left the section is anterior to the eye. The nasal 

 cartilage, n.c, on the right, completely encloses the nasal passage 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



of that side, and thus lies between that passage and its nasal 

 glaud. The section is cut posterior to the opening of the right 

 nasal gland, r-.n.g., into the right nasal passage, r.n.c. The left 

 side of the section passes through the opening of the left nasal 

 gland, l.n.g., into the left nasal passage. 



In the next section (fig. 2/) the complexity of the nasal appar- 

 atus has, apparently, considerably increased. In the first place, 

 the ventral portions of the nasal cartilage, which, anterior to this 

 point, formed a more or less complete wall ventral to the nasal 

 passages, have disappeared, and on the right the dorsal portion of 

 the'cartilage has separated from the median, s., and is now repre- 

 sented by a short straight piece, n.c'., and a long curved piece, 

 n.c, enclosing a part, c, of the right nasal passage. On the left 

 the dorsal, wall of cartilage is still connected with the median sep- 

 tum. The nasal passages are here of quite different shape from 

 what they w^ere in the preceding section. They are still more 

 •elongated in a dorso-ventral direction, and that on the right, 

 which is nearer the base of the snout, is cut at the point, v. p. , at 

 which it opens ventrally into the narrow ventral passage, which, 

 in turn, leads posteriorly to open at the posterior nares. d. repre- 

 sents a narrow diverticulum, projecting in a ventro-lateral direc- 

 tion, which may be followed almost to the jiosterior end of the large 

 dorsal passage. ,A large branch of the main nasal passage, r.n.c, 

 is represented at c, and the following section passes through the 

 point at which this lateral passage opens ventrally into the main 

 passage. 



On the hift side of the section is seen the left nasal gland, l.n.g., 

 cut posterior to its opening into the left nasal passage. On either 

 side of the ventral end of the median cartilage, s., is seen a small 

 collection of cells, j., which, according to Rose, is the rudimentary 

 Jacobson's organ. These two collections of cells, which will be 

 spoken of as " Jacobson's organ," extend from this point poste- 

 riorly for a considerable distance, as two solid rods of cells; they 

 then become hollowed out to form tubes, which soon open ven- 

 trally into the ventral nasal passages, v.j). , as will be shown in one 

 of the following figures. The section represented in fig. 2/ passes 

 near the extreme anterior end of Jacobson's organ. 



In fig. 2g, which is only a short distance posterior to the one 

 just described, Jacobson's organ is still seen as two solid rods of 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



cells. On the right, the ventral nasal passage, v.])., is cut posterior to 

 its opening into the main nasal passage and is hence seen as an inde- 

 pendent, circular passage. On the left, the section passes through 

 the opening of the left ventral passage, v.p'., into its adjacent 

 main nasal passage. The ventro-lateral diverticula, d. and d'., are 

 seen on either side. The right side of the section passes through 

 the oi)ening of the cavity c. into the ventral part of the right nasal 

 passage, r.7i.c., while on the left the corresponding cavity, c'., is 

 cut anterior to its opening and is surrounded on all sides by the 

 nasal cartilage. In the preceding section the cavity c. Avas cut pos- 

 terior to the region at which it was completely surrounded by car- 

 tilage. 



In fig. 2h the nasal cartilages have about the same outline as in 

 the figure just described, the sections represented by these two 

 figures being close together. Jacobson's organ, j., has increased 

 somevv-hat in size, but there is still no trace of a cavity in either 

 part. Both ventral nasal tubes, v.p., are now entirely distinct 

 from the main nasal cavities and are somewhat circular tubes lined 

 with columnar cells. On the left the side cavity, c'., is still sur- 

 rounded by cartilage, being again cut anterior to its opening into 

 the left nasal passage, l.n.c, while on the right of the section, at 

 the point c. , the side cavity is seen to open dorsally into the main 

 nasal cavity. The relation of this side cavity to the main nasal 

 cavity is made plain by reference to fig. 3a, which represents a 

 section cut in the plane a-b, fig. lb. The section passed through 

 the dorsal part of the nasal cavities, cutting the cavity on the right 

 so far dorsally that but little indication of the side cavity, c, is 

 evident. It is plain, from this figure, that what ha« been called 

 a side cavity, c'., is merely the posterior end of the main nasal 

 cavity which has bent around until it projected outward and for- 

 ward, and thus gave the idea, in transverse section, of a distinct 

 ofishoot frorh the main nasal cavity, l.n.c. Fig. 3a shows how 

 the nasal cartilage, ».c., pushes in between the cavity c' and the 

 main cavity, l.n.c, giving the impression, in transverse section, 

 that the cavity c' is completely surrounded by cartilage. In a 

 section ventral to this one, what has been called the main nasal 

 cavity, l.n.c, is seen to extend somewhat further toward 

 the brain, br., and in that way the cavity c'. is made to appear 

 more like a branch of the main cavity than simply a forward 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrHIA. 461 



bendiug of the larger cavity. This posterior extension of the 

 main nasal cavity is shown in fig. 21, l.n.c. Fig. 3a shows that 

 the median nasal cartilage, s., extends back between the eyes, and 

 becomes continuous with the cartilage surrounding the brain. It 

 is somewhat swollen at a point about half-way between the nasal 

 cavities and the brain. 



The section repi*esented in fig. 21 passes through the extreme 

 posterior part of the main nasal cavities, l.n.c. and r.n.c, and 

 cuts the ventral canals, v. p., posterior to the point at which Jacob- 

 son's organ opens into them. The way in which this takes place 

 will be described later. The lateral parts, n.e., of the nasal carti- 

 lages have diminished considerably in size, and now lie much 

 nearer to the median cartilage, s. This section passes through the 

 anterior ends of the two olfactory lobes, o. I. 



In fig. 2/ is represented a section cut posterior to the nasal 

 cavity, so that neither of the main or dorsal nasal chambers are 

 seen. The ventral passages, v.jj., have about the same size and 

 position as In the preceding figure, while the lateral cartilages, 

 n.e., are reduced to mere rods, lying close against but not fused 

 with the median cartilage, 6\ A short distance posterior to this 

 point these cartilages end. 



The section seen in fig. 2k is some distance posterior to the one 

 just described, and shows how the ventral canals, v.j)., unite to 

 form a single median canal, before they open posteriorly as the 

 posterior nares. 



This section does not cut the lateral parts of the nasal cartilage, 

 but the median septum, s. , is seen extending dorsally, b.c, on 

 ei-ther side of the olfactory lobes, o.l. The outlines of the muscles 

 of the eyes are shown in this as well as in the following figure by 

 dotted lines, m. 



Fig. 2ns somewhat posterior to fig. 2k, and passes through the 

 opening of the ventral passages, the jioscerior nares, p.n. The 

 other points brought out in this figure are about the same as in 

 fig. 2k, and need no further description. 



Fig. 4a represents, under a much higher magnification, a part 

 of one of the sections of the series that has just been described. 

 The veuti-al end of the median cartilaginous septum is shown at s., 

 and the ventral ends of the right and left nasal passages are seen 

 at r.n.c and l.n.c. The walls of these passages are made up of 




462 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jwly, 



one or more layers of cubical or columnar ciliated cells. The 

 ventral passages, v. p., are lined Avith similar cells, except that no 

 cilia could be made out. On the left is seen, dorsal to the left 

 ventral passage, the tubular organ of Jacobson, j., which is cut 

 anterior to its opening into the ventral passage, v.jy; its cavity is 

 small, in cross section, and only extends for a short distance ante- 

 riorly, the greater part of the organ being a solid rod of cells with- 

 out any visible cavity. On the right side of the figure, which, it 

 will be remembered, is posterior to the plane of the left side, is 

 seen the opening of Jacobson' s organ, J., into the right ventral 

 canal, v. p. The united cavities of the ventral canal and Jacob- 

 son's organ have a sharply triangular outline, which is maintained 

 for a considerable distance posterior to the point at which they 

 first come together. The walls of the organ are of about the same 

 structure as those of the ventral passages. For the sake of sim- 

 plicity the mesoblast cells in this and in all of the preceding sec- 

 tions have not been represented. They are typical mesoblast cells 

 and surround numerous blood vessels. 



Fig. 5a represents a sagittal section of an embryo of the same 

 stage of development as the one represented in fig. la. The sec- 

 tion is nearly, but not exactly, in the median plane, so that some of 

 the organs are cut medianally while others are cut to one side of 

 the median plane The general outline of the head is well shown 

 and the relative positions of the main regions can be seen. The 

 brain, br., and spinal cord, s.c, are represented in the heavier 

 shading; the cartilaginous parts, including the vertebral column, 

 V.C., in the lighter areas. The great size of the nasal cavity is due 

 to the fact that the section passes through one of the main nasal 

 passages in the plane of its greatest diameter, fig. 2/. The 

 other parts of the head will be easily understood by reference to 

 the letters. As in the previous sections, the mesoblast has been 

 omitted for convenience and simplicity. 



Letter I XG of Figures. 



b. — Basal plate of cartilage. 



b.c. — Cartilage around the brain. 



hr. — Brain. 



h.w. — Body wall. 



c. — Later.il part of nasal canal. 



d. — Diverticulum of uasal canal. 



e. — Eye. 



7i. — Hypophysis. 



j. — Jacobson's organ. 



L — Lens. 



l.j. — Lower jaw. 



I. /I.e. — Left uasal canal. 



l.n.g. — Left nasal gland. 



7/i. — Muscle of the eye. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPIIfA. 



46? 



ni.c. — Cartilage of lower jaw 

 n.c. — Na«al cartilage. 

 0. — CEsophagus. 

 I. — Olfactory lobes. 

 'p.n. — Posterior nares. 

 r.n.a. — Kight nasal aperture. 

 r.n.c. — Right nasal canal. 

 r.ii.g. — Eight nasal gland. 

 s. — Nasal septum. 



s.c. — Spinal cord. 



t. — Tongue. 



ta. — Trachea. 



t.r. — Tooth rudiment. 



v.c. — Vertebral column. 



v.p. — Ventral passage. 



X. — Septum projecting back between 



main nasal canal and its side 



branch. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIV. 



(All sections icere drawn with a Zeiss Camera.) 



Fig. \a. — Side view, from a photograph, of an embryo of the stage repre- 

 gented in the sections. The yolk is not represented, but the cut stalk may 

 be seen projecting from the abdominal wall just anterior to the hind legs 

 (mag. f diam.). 



Fig. 16. — This is merely an outline drawing of the preceding figure to 

 show the planes of the sections represented in the following figures. 



Fig. 2a. — Transver.>e section through the tip of the snout. The section is 

 so near the tip of the snout, that it does not cut the lower jaw (mag. 4 

 diam.). 



Fig. 2h. — Transverse section posterior to fig. \a. It passes through the 

 extreme tip of the lower jaw (mag. 4 diam.). 



Fig. 2c. — Transverse section still further toward the base of the snout. 

 The details of the figure will be understood from the lettering (mag. 4 

 diam.). 



Fig. 2d. — Transverse section posterior to the preceding (mag. 4 diam.). 



Figs. 21 to h. — Transverse sections posterior to the preceding, passing 

 through the right eye, but anterior to the left eye (mag. 4 diam.). 



Fig. 2J. — Transverse section passing through the .extreme posterior part of 

 the main nasal passages (l.n.c. and r.n.c). The section passes through the 

 anterior edge of the left eye and through the anterior ends of the olfactory 

 lobes (mag. 4 diam.). 



Fig. 2/. — Transverse section just beyond the posterior end of the main 

 nasal cavities. It passes through the extreme posterior ends of the lateral 

 nasal cartilages {n.c.) (mag. 4 diam.). 



Fig. 2k. — Transverse section through the point where the two ventral 

 canals (yp.) unite to form a single large median canal. The section 

 passes through the eyes at about their central points, and shows the sets of 

 muscles by which their motion is controlled. The lower jaw is cut at the 

 point at which it becomes continuovis with the neck, which accounts for the 

 break in the ventral side of this and the following figure (mag. 4 diam.). 



Fig. 21. — Transverse section, a short distance posterior to the one immedi- 

 ately preceding, passing through the posterior nares (p.n.), and through 

 the upper end of the trachea {ta.) which appears in the figure to be three 

 distinct cavities (mag. 4 diam.). 



Fig. "ia. — Horizontal section through the plane a-&, fig. \h. Shows the 

 general anatomy of the head as seen in horizontal section, and especially the 

 way in which the main nasal passages {l.n.c. and r.n.c.) curve outward 

 and forward, as has been above described (mag. 4 diam.). 



Fig. 4a. — Transverse section, under a much greater magnification, to 

 show the structure and position of the paired Jacobsou's organ (j.) (mag. 

 18 diam.). 




404 pkocp:edixgs of the academy of [July, 



Fig. 5rtf. — Sagittal section of the head of the embryo under consideration. 

 The section is not exactly in a median plane, so that some of the unpaired 

 organs are cut medianally while others are not (mag. 4 diam.). 



Literature. 



Beard, J. Morphological Studies, No. 4: The Nose and Jacobson's Organ. 



Zool. Jahrbiicher, Bd. Ill, 1889, S. 753. 

 Broun, H. G. Nasal Cavity of Crocodilia, in Thier-Reichs, Bd VI, 3 Ab., 



Reptilien, II, S. 874. 

 Howes, G. B. On the Probable Existence of a Jacobson's Organ among the 



Crocodilia. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, February, 1891, p. 148. 

 Meek, A. On the Occurrence of a Jacobson's Organ, with Notes on the 



Development of the Nasal Cavity, the Harderian Gland in Crocodilus 



porosus. Jour, of Anat. and Physiol., Vol. XXVII. 

 Sluiter, C. Ph. Das Jacobson'sche Organ von Crocodilus porosus (Schn.). 



Anat. Anz., 1892, S. 540. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA, IV. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



lu the present coninmnicatiou the description of Japanese 

 Clausiliidie is continued, and that of the Pupidce begun. The 

 genesis of ^a^m-like forms in Japan is considered in some detail, 

 together with various other divergent branches from the Euphsedu- 

 soid phylum. 



For most of the material described I am indebted to the liber- 

 ality of Mr. Y. Hirase, a corresponding member of this Academy. 



Mr. E. R. Sykes also has entrusted to me certain specimens col- 

 lected in Japan by Dr. Hungerford, many years ago, representing 

 species described but not figured by Dr. O. von Mollendorff; and 

 I have included herein some account of such of these as are closely 

 related to my new forms. IMy thanks are due to both of these 

 co-workers for their kind assistance. 



Section ZAPTYX Pils. 



Proc. A. N. 8. P., 1900, p. 672. 



This strongly differentiated group has hitherto been known from 

 southern Kiushiu and the Loo Choo Islands only ; but a represen- 

 tative has now been found to the north and east in an island 

 belonging to the province of Izu, I have attempted below to 

 explain its presence there. 



Typical Clausilia (Zaptyx) Hirasei occurs at Kagoshima, the 

 type locality, and on Sakura Island in Kagoshima Bay. A more 

 slender form, of a richer, darker brown color, but the same internal 

 structure, has been sent by Mr. Hirase (No. 557) from Kikai,^ 

 Osumi, at the head of Kagoshima Bay. Many specimens are 

 very small, length 7^ mm., but others reach 10 J mm. in length. 

 As the shell is quite slender, this is one of the smallest Clausilias 



^ In treating of Eulota cormivens, Proc. Malac. Soc. Lond., IV, p. 77, 

 Mr. Glide has confused this locality with the island Kikai-ga shima, of the 

 Oshima group, south of Kiushia. This island is in the Loo Choo group, 

 broadly speaking, but belongs for administrative purpeses to Kagoshima 

 Ken or prefecture. 



30 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['I^lv, 



knowu, as well as one of the most complicated in internal struc- 

 ture. 



Clausilia hachijoensis n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 39, 40. 



Shell fusiform, rimate, rather thin, of a dark, rich brown color; 

 rather weakly wrinkle-striate, the latter part of the last whorl 

 distinctly and sharply striate. "Whorls 8 to Sh, slightly convex, 

 the apex obtuse, the last whorl somewhat flattened laterally, and 

 gibbous or sack-like below. Aperture trapezoidal-piriform, the 

 peristome continuous, brown, narrowly expanded and subreflexed. 

 Superior lamella rather small, compressed, vertical, distant from the 

 spiral lamella. Spiral lamella short, lateral, not reaching a ventral 

 position, a short lamella Julcrans lying parallel to it. Inferior 

 lamella receding, immersed, visible in an oblique view in the aper- 

 ture, moderately spiral within; subcolumellar lamella either emerg- 

 ing or immersed. Principal plica short and lateral, one or two 

 short sutural plicre lying above it; dipper palatal plica exceedinrjhj 

 short and joining the lunella. Lunella lateral, rather long and 

 straight. 



Clausilium strongly curved throughout, the apex rounded, 

 straightened or slightly emarginate ou the palatal side, near the 

 apex. 



Laugth 10, diam. 2 J to 2^ mm. 



Bachijo (or Hachijo) Island, prov. Izu (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 

 638). 



This species is about the size of the largest specimens of C. 

 Hirasel and C. hyperoptyx, but is a trifle wider. It difiers from 

 both in wanting a parallel lamella, and the upper palatal plica is 

 extremely short, a mere dilation of the upper end of the lunella. 

 In C Hirasel it stands free of the lunella, and in C. hyjjeroptyx is 

 united with it and is much longer. The principal plica is shorter 

 than in the other two species. The clausilium is much more 

 curved than iu either of these species, and its apical end has a 

 somewhat different shape. 



The specimens were sent with C. Tryoni, an Euphcedusa much 

 resembling this species in size and color. 



Bachijo or, as most charts spell it, Hachijo (or sometimes 

 Fatsizio) Island lies iu the Pacific just above the 3.3d parallel Is^. 

 lat., and near 140° E. long. It is somewhat over 100 miles from 

 the nearest mainland, and is about iwenty-oue miles long by seven 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 467 



and a half wide. A chain of islets reaches northward to 'the 

 Sagami Sea; but I am disposed to believe that its molluscan fauna 

 has been derived chiefly from the islands south of Kiushiu by means 

 of drift, as it lies directly in the Kuro Shi wo, or " Black Current," 

 and Zaptyx, the group to which C. Haehijoensis belongs, is dis- 

 tinctly a southern group, unknown in Hondo Island. Small islets 

 at wide intervals are scattered down to the Bonin (Ogasawara) 

 group, but they rise from a submarine ridge in the sea bed between 

 1,000 and 2,000 fathoms depth. 



The two s])ecies of Clausilia here described and Clausllla 

 (Reinia) varlegata var. nesiotica Pils. are the first land shells 

 known from the island. 



, Section EUPH^^DUSA Bottger. 



Clausilia Tryoni n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell small, rimate, thin, fusiform, dark purplish brown, glossy. 

 finely striatulate, the last whorl more coarsely rib-striate. Whorls 

 8, rather convex, the apex obtuse, next three or four whorls 

 attenuated, the last whorl flattened on its last half. Aperture 

 piriform, the peristome rather thin, narrowly expanded and sub re- 

 flexed, continuous, adnate or very shortly free above, deeply emar- 

 ginate at the position of the superior lamella. Superior lamella 

 thin but high, continuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella 

 rather small, weak below, though emerging nearly to the lip-edge, 

 rather abruptly becoming stronger and converging toward the 

 superior lamella within, strongly spiral. Suheolumellar lamella 

 emerging. Principal plica short, its lower end visible from the 

 aperture, deep within the throat, the other end extending past the 

 palatal plicae to a lateral position. Upper and lower palatal pliae 

 small, oblique and parallel, lateral in position, the lower one 

 smaller. There is no trace of a lunella. The inferior and spiral 

 lamellre are of equal length within, and reach to the middle of the 

 ventral side. 



The clausilium is broad, strongly curved, a little pointed or 

 tapering toward the apex, and very slightly thickened there. 



Length 11^, diam. 3 mm. 



Bachijo (Hachijo) Island, prov. Izu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 

 638). 



This pretty little Eapha;dasa was sent with Clausilia (^Zaptyx) 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JuIy, 



hachijoensis, which it resembles iu size aud color. It will be 

 known by the unusually strong superior lamella, emerging sub- 

 columellar lamella and total absence of a lunella, the two palatal 

 folds being small, remote and parallel. The clausilium though 

 YTJde is a little tapering below, aud less thickened at the apex thau 

 in most of the related species. 



There is some variation in sculpture, one specimen being densely 

 and rather sharply striate, while the others are smoother. 



Group of C. Hunfjerjordiana. 



Shell with the ordinary slender contour and piriform aperture of 

 Eupluulusa. Superior lamella wanting, or represented merely by 

 a slight thickening of the lip-edge. Inferior lamella rather 

 strongly developed. Lunella subobsolete or wanting; palatal plicte 

 2; the principal plica short. Shell usually variegated with white 

 streaks. 



This new " Formenkreis" contains two species, both Japanese. 



Clausilia Hungerfordiana Mlldff. PI. XXV, fig. 4. 



Von MoUendorff, Journ. Asiatic Soc. of Bengal, LI, Ft. 2, No. 1, p. 

 2, PI. 1, fig. 1 (July, 1882). 



The specimen figured is fi'om Hungerford's collection, and is 

 DOW in that of Mr. E. R. Sykes. It is slender, thin, conspicu- 

 ously streaked and maculate with buff-white on a brown ground. It 

 is finely, rather irregularly striatulate, the striie becoming coai-ser 

 and distinct on the back of the last whorl. The superior lamella 

 is represented by a slight thickening of the lip-margin. Inferior 

 lamella strong. Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immei-sed. 

 The lather short principal plica is lateral, the lunella subobsolete, 

 upper aud lower palatal plicpe being developed. 



Length 12, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Nara, Yamato. 



Thus far known from the type locality only, a town lying east 

 from Osaka, in northern Yamato. 



Clausilia monelasmus Pils- PI- XXVII, tig. 6. 



Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Pbila., 1900, p. 674, PL 24, figs. 4-6 ; PI. 25, 

 figs. 26-29. 



The specimen here figured has the inferior lamella more receding 

 than in the tyj^, and the shell is variegated with white. 



It is evident that this is a northern species very closely related 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



to C. Hung erf ordiana, from Avhich it differs in being smaller and 

 more graceful, decidedly more attenuated above, with much 

 stronger striation. There is no trace of a lunella. It is from 

 Hokkaido Island, while C. Huugerfonliana is from southeastern 

 Hondo. Perhaps northern Hondo will supply specimens of inter- 

 mediate character. 



The shell figured is 10 mm. long. 



Group of C. euholodoma. 



Shell shorter than in normal Eaphcedusce, the whorls reduced to 

 7-7^; aperture broad, squarish-oval, scarcely narrower above than, 

 below; peristome continuous, the broadly arched parietal margia 

 in part adnate, though distinct. JVo superior lamella. Inferior 

 lamella strong; spiral lamella and principal plica very short; no 

 lunella; upper and lower palatal plicfe developed. Clausilium 

 Euphredusoid. 



The single species of this group approaches Reinia in contour, 

 but, like the preceding group, the superior lamella is obsolete and 

 the inferior lamella strong. 



Clausilia euholostoma Pils. PI. XXV, fii,'s. 6, 7, s. 



Pilsbry, Nautilus, XIV, p. 108 (January 1, 1901). 



Shell rimate, slenderly pupiform, brown, finely striate. Apex 

 rather acute; spire rapidly tapering above; whorls 7-7i, quite 

 convex, the last two forming much more than half the shell's 

 length, and of about equal diameter. Aperture of a broad, 

 squari^ih-oval form, scarcely narrower above than below; peristome 

 white, reflexed, continuous, the strong j9«)'tefa/ margin arcuate and 

 in part adnate. Sujjerior lamella ivanting. Spiral lamella reduced 

 to a short plate deeply immersed, developed in a lateral position. 

 Inferior lamella appearing in a front view as a strong triangular 

 plate, strongly spiral within. Subcolumellar lamella very deeply 

 immersed. Principal plica reduced to a short fold, lateral in posi- 

 tion and about twice as long as the small upper and lower palatal 

 plicse. No lunella. Clausilium very similar to that of C. comes,^ 

 but the palatal margin is more straightened near the apex, and the 

 columellar margin is more strongly notched near the filament. 



Length 8.6, diam. 2.4 mm.; length of aperture 2.3 mm. 



Length 7. 3, diam. 2. 2 mm. ; length of aperture 2 mm. 



2 See these Proceedings for 1900, PI. XXV, figs. 35, 36. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



" Mikuriya, prov. Suruga (Y. Hirase). Types Ko. 79,724 Coll. 

 A. K S. P., No. 563 of Mr. Hirase' s collection. 



This species is one of the most extraordinary modifications of the 

 Eupluedusan stock yet known. The large aperture resembles in 

 form that of no other Clausilia known to me, and shows but one 

 lamella, the inferior; the superior lamella being wholly atrophied, 

 and the spiral lamella and principal plica reduced to short laminpe 

 in the region where the clausilium lodges. There is no trace of a 

 lunella. The clausilium remains well developed, is slightly thick- 

 ened distally, and has all the characters of that of Eujjhcedum. 



In the strong development of the inferior lamella, C. euholostoma 

 resembles C. Hungerfordiana IMlldff. and C. moneloismus Pils., 

 which are likewise deficient in the superior lamella. C. euholo- 

 stoma agrees with the typical forms of Reinia in having the aper- 

 ture wide above, not piriform as in the group of C. Hunger- 

 fordiana. It is intermediate between the two groups in number 

 of whorls and in general contour. 



Sectioa EEINIA Kobelt. 



Seinia Kob., Jahrb. d. D. Malak. Ges., Ill, 1876, p. 34, proposed as a 

 section of Balea ; type Balea variegata A. Ad. 



The type of Reinia is a small tapering-pupoid species, with 

 discontlnuom peristome, the aperture being Buliminoid, deficient in 

 lamelhT and ivitliout pliae, lunella or clausiluim. It was included 

 by Bottger next to Balea; but that group as usually constituted 

 consists of no less than three series of species, each totally dis- 

 tinct and unrelated. 



It was Dr. O. von MollendorfT who with keen insight first 

 pointed out the fundamental distinction between Balea and 

 Reinia.^ He recognized in the Chinese C. eastlakeana a less 

 modified form of Reinia, and after discussing the characters of the 

 groii]), declared it to be related to the eastern Asiatic grou]) 

 Fhcedusa. The relation of Reinia to Phcedusa, von jMollendorfi^ 

 further held, is comparable to that of Alopia to the true Clausilia 

 of Europe: " Phylogenetisch diirfte Reinia als der lebende Rest 

 der Vorfahren der heutigen Phceditsa- Avien aufzufassen sein, wie 



2 Jahrb. d. D. Malak. Ges., X, p. 2G2-205, 1833, under description of C. 

 eastlakeana, a species from Fu-dshow, on the island Nan-tai, province of 

 Fu-dshien, southern China. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIirA. 471 



die Baleo-Clausilien die direkten nachkommea des Prototyps der 

 Europiiischen Clausilien siud. "* 



The couclusiou that Reinia stands in close relationship with 

 Plucdusa, and has nothing to do with Balea, was forced upon 

 me by the study of a series of Japanese species, before I knew 

 that von iVIoIlendortt', nearly twenty years ago, had been led to 

 the same result by the structure of a Chinese form. Only in one 

 point of view the data before me seem to modify the ideas of the 

 Oerman savant: the Japanese series establishes such a connection 

 between Reinia and Eaphcedusa that the descent of the former 

 from the latter is strongly indicated. Reinia is not a 2>'^i>nitive 

 Pluedusa, but a degenerate one. I regard Reinia variegata as the 

 secondarily simplified end of a series leading from typically 

 Euphredusoid ancestors, just as Balea perversa is a secondarily sim- 

 plitied, and not a primitive, Clausilia. The east Asiatic series 

 leads from forms with many whorls, well-developed clausilium, 

 lamelhe and folds, and continuous peristome, to those with few 

 Avhorls, no clausilium, the lamelke and plica; reduced and in part 

 lost, and the peristome adnate above and finally interrupted. 

 Bottger has demonstrated that the older tertiary Clausiliidce of 

 Europe had a narrow clausilium and the superior lamella was 

 continuous with the spiral lamella; the widening of the clausilium 

 and separation of the superior and spiral lamellse being modern 

 chai'acters. Now Reinia and its nearest allies have the spiral 

 and superior lamella) interrupted, and the clausilium when devel- 

 oped is of the very broad type. These considerations seem to 

 render the hypothesis that Reinia is a primitive Phcedusa quite 

 inadmissible. 



The chief characters of Reinia and the Euphredusoid forms 

 leading toward it, are stated in the following table : 



*L. c, p. 265. 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



The interrelations of the above species are further illustrated in 

 the following diagram, the median portion of which shows the 

 probable phylogeny of the forms under consideration : 



r 



Aperture 

 wide 

 above. 



Aperture 

 piriform. 



Peristome 

 incomplete 



Peristome 

 j complete, 

 1^ no sup. lam. 



f No superior 



I lamella. 



I 



Superior la- 

 mella de- 

 L veloped. 



variegata 

 nesiotica 



No clausilium or 

 palatal plicae. 



[ Eastlakeana — 



— euholostoma 



monelas7nus 

 -Hungerfordian a 



normal 



Eupfuedusa 



Clausilium and 

 palatal plicre de- 

 veloped. 



It will be seen from the table and diagram that no sharp line 

 can be drawn between Reiiila and Euphccdasa. The number of 

 whorls varies, by easy stages; the form of the aperture is not cor- 

 related with other characters; and upon the whole, it is obvious 

 that we have to deal with forms in various stages of change and ot 

 degeneration of the closing- apparatus, from an Euphaidusoid ances- 

 tor. In fact, it is not quite certain that they had a single common 

 progenitor; they may be descendants from three species of Euphce- 

 dusa ; but however this may be, it is obvious that the original 

 stock, whether one or three, belonged to the aeulus group of 

 Euphcediisa; and some apparently trivial features of the whole 

 series, such as the peculiar coloration, give me reason to believe 

 that the phylogeny indicated above is not far wrong. 



Clausilia (Reinia) variegata (A. Ad.). PL XXV, figs. 11, 12. 



Balea variegata A. Adams, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (ser. 4), I, p. 

 469 (1868); Kobelt, Fauna Jap., p. 63, PI. 9, fig. 20 (1879) ; Mai- 

 tens, Sitzungsber. Ges. Naturforsch. Freunde zu Berlin, 1877, p. 105. 



The shell is sinistral, rimate, thin, tapering-pupiform, the last 

 whorl widest; streaked xvlth opaque buff on an olivaceous or 

 brownish corneous ground, and more or less marked with spiral 

 lines of the darker color. The surface is irregular striatulate, the 

 last half of the last whorl being striate. Whorls 6, convex and 

 regularly increasing. The aperture is broadly ovate, with white. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['Tulj, 



reflexed peristome; the right and left margins scarcely converging 

 above, xvidehj separated, connected by a thin, adnate jmrietal 

 callus. The superior lamella is minute, short and removed from 

 the edge of the parietal callus. It is widely separated from the 

 rather short, spiral lamella. Inferior lamella receding, small, 

 becoming higher inside, extending to a dorsal position. Sub- 

 columellar lamella very deeply immersed, a long pit between it 

 and the inferior lamella. There are no plicse. Clausilium want- 

 ing. Length 8.3, diam. above aperture 2.6, length of aperture 

 2.8 mm. 



Tago (A. Adams) (Tako, in western Shikoku, province of 

 lyo) ; Uweno, near Tokyo, and Ujeno (Hilgendorfj ; Tokyo 

 (Donitz); Takasaki, prov. Kozuke (Y. Hirase, jSTo. 525). 



This species was found by Hilgendorf under the bark of trees, 

 by Donitz in hollow trees. It is viviparous, one specimen I 

 opened containing a young shell. 



Clausilia Eastlakeana Mlldff., of which I have specimens, from 

 the original locality, is undoubtedly nearer variegata than any 

 Japanese species, having the same discontinuous peristome; but it 

 has longer, stronger lamellae, palatal phcse and an Euphredusoid 

 clausilium. 

 Clausilia (Reinia) variegata var. nesiotica nov. PI. XXV, flgs. 9, 10. 



Whorls &h; striatiou stronger than in variegata, the last whorl 

 with fine incised spiral strife. Inferior and spiral lamella de- 

 cidedly more strongly developed. 



Length 8.3-9.5, diam. 2.7 mm. 



Hachijo Island, off Izu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 5256). 



This insular race has slightly less degenerate lamella; than the 

 typical form from Hondo. Some specimens from the outlying 

 Ogasawara (Bouin) Islands, Mr. Hirase's No. 469, apparently 

 belong here, though as only young ones have been received, I am 

 not certain of them. 



Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA Pilsbry. 



This section is not allied to Eaphcedusa, as I formerly supposed, 

 but to Heviiphitdnsa, with which it agrees in the receding inferior 

 lamella, straightly ascending within, and remote from the superior 

 lamella. Whether it will stand as a separate section, or become a 

 subordinate group of Hemiphcednsa, depends upon the emphasis 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



placed upon the different form of the clausiliuin. Hemiphcedusa 

 now comprises vai^pus shell- forms, especially among Chinese 

 species, and will probably require to be more or less subdivided. 



As the figure of C. mikado Pils. was on too small a scale to 

 show the form of the spire well, 1 give here an enlarged outline, 

 PI. XXVII, fig. 35. 



Clausilia iotaptyx Pilsbry. PI. XXVII, fig. 3S. 

 These Proceedings for 1900, p. GT4. 



The reference to plate in my former paper should read PL 

 XXIV, not " PI. XXV." In the description, p. 675, eighth 

 line from lop, the luuella was stated to be " lateral," whereas it 

 is, in fact, nearly ventral. The same correction should be made in 

 the third line from bottom of same page. 



The systematic position of this species was left in doubt in my 

 former paper; but further study inclines me to place a good deal 

 of weight upon the characters of the clausilium in deciding on the 

 classification of any Phsedusoid species; and this would throw 

 C. iotaptyx into my section Ti/rannopJuedusa. The definition of 

 that group must then be extended to include species with fewer 

 whorls, but having the same type of closing apparatus. As in C. 

 mikado, the upper half of the shell is attenuated. 



Clausilia iotaptyx, var. clava Pilsbry. PI. XXVII, figs. 36, 37. 

 Pilsbry, Nautilu.«, XIV, p. 108 (January, 1901). 



Much smaller than C. iotaptyx, but similar in form; whorls 

 lH-12, the first globose, following 7 or 8 attenuated, last 3 swol- 

 len and forming more than half the length of the shell, the last 

 whorl tapering below, impressed at the position of the principal 

 plica, more or less distinctly ridged behind a wide shallow constric- 

 tion behind the lip. Finely striate where not eroded; whitish or 

 dirty buflf, and lustreless. Aperture as in C. iotaptyx, but the 

 subcohunellar lamella is sometimes wholly immersed. Closing 

 apparatus more lateral than in iotaptyx, the upper palatal plica 

 strong but short, lower plica shorter, connected with a rudimen- 

 tary, straight lunella, which does not reach the upper palatal fold. 



Alt. 12, diam. 2.8 mm. 



Alt. 11.5, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Senzan, A.waji Island (Y. Hirase). Types Xo. 79,723 Coll. 

 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 292 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 




47G rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



This insular subspecies has one-half to one whorl more than the 

 typical form fi'om Omi province, although it « much smaller; the 

 spire is somewhat more slender, and the lunella is comparatively 

 degenerate. 



Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg. 



Group of C. validiuscula. 



Clausilia gracilispira Mlldff. PI. XXVII, figs. 27-31. 



Von MoUeadorff, Journ. Asiatic Soc. of Bengal, LI, Pt. 2, No. 1, p. 

 5, PI. 1, fig. 3 (July, 1882); LIV, Pt. 2, No. 1, p. 63 (1885). 



Two specimens labeled as this species were transmitted to me 

 by ]Mr. E. R. Sykes. They formed part of Brigade Surgeon 

 Hungerford's collection, and were taken by him near Kobi, 

 Japan, about twenty years ago. 



One of the specimens is slightly stouter and reddish, the other 

 more slender and pale yellowish green. I shall refer to them as 

 the reddish and the green examples. 



The green specimen (PI, XXVII, figs. 27-29) is slender, much 

 attenuated above, and has 9^ convex whorls. It is rather strongly, 

 regularly striate. The last whorl is somewhat cylindric, and on 

 its last half the space above the po.sition of the princii^al 2)lica is 

 distinctly swollen. The aperture is decidedly oblique and ovate; and 

 from its obliquity appears abnormally short in the figures, from 

 being foreshortened. The peristome is rather widely re flexed, 

 shortly free, a little emarginate above, and viewed from the base, 

 it is seen to be distmctly notched to the right of the superior lamella. 

 The superior lamella is marginal and slightly projecting, rather 

 short, and distinctly fla^-topped ; continuous with the spiral lamella. 

 The inferior lamella is very receding, hardly visible in a front 

 view. Within it ascends straightly, is rather stout, and terminates 

 below in a perceptible "knot" or callous thickening. The 

 subcolumellar lamella is very deeply immersed, not visible within 

 the mouth. Both spiral and inferior lamellae ascend to a ventral 

 positicm, the former being higher in the region where the clausilium 

 lodges. The principal plica is visible within the aperture, and 

 penetrates to a lateral position, being thus fully a half-whorl long. 

 Below it there are four plicre, the upper and lower well devel- 

 oped; two very short, indistinct, minute callous nodules or plicae 

 lying between them. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



The clausilium (PI. XXVII, figs. ^30, 31) is parallel-sided, 

 acumiuate below, abruptly and deeply emargiuate above ou the 

 columellar side of the filament. 



Length 10, diam. 2 mm. 



This specimen agrees with von MollendorfTs description of C 

 grac'dispira in color and form, but differs in having fewer whorls, 

 9i instead of 10-11, and in having two minute intermediate 

 palatal plicae instead of only one. Moreover, the lip is rather 

 broadly reflexed, not merely " hreviter expansum." 



The reddish specimen (PI. XXVII, figs. 32-34) is wider than 

 the green, with the space above the principal plica very convex 

 (fig. 34). Whorls 9^. The aperture is less oblique than in the 

 green specimen, but otherwise similar; the oblique flattening of 

 the top of the superior lamella, and the notch in the pei'istome to 

 the right of it being well marked. Internally it is similar to the 

 green specimen except in the following respects: the spiral and 

 inferior lamellpe are longer, ascending almost j)ast the ventral 

 position; and between the upper and lower palatal plicre there is 

 one very low, nodule-like callus or intermediate plica. 



Length 10, diam. 2.2 mm. 



This specimen agrees with von Mollendorff's description in 

 having an identical palatal armature. In color and general 

 appearance it is a good deal like C. atirantiaca var. Erberi Bttg. 

 I did not examine the clausilium. The rather peculiar form of 

 the superior lamella, in a front view, is the same in the two speci- 

 mens; and when the intermediate palatal plicfe are so reduced as 

 in these shells, I am disposed to beheve that the differences above 

 recorded are not of specific value. 



It is obvious, however, that more material is needed to satisfac- 

 torily elucidate the characters of the species. 



Groiqj of C. sublunellata. 



This group was defined by von Mollendorft' in 1885. It js 

 characterized by the palatal armature, the species examined by 

 him having " below the principal plait, first an upper palatal, after 

 this a very short second one, and then a short, straight lunella, 

 which in some forms is somewhat obsolete, but always discernible." 



In my opinion the group should be enlarged to include species 

 which have below the principal plica or jilait, one upper palatal 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['Tulj, 



plica, followed by a straight Junella, or a short, low callous uorlule 

 representing the lunella. There is no lower palatal plica, nor 

 inward curve of the lower end of the lunella, representing such 

 plicq^. 



Since the lunella is a secondary evolution-product, formed by 

 the coalescence of primitive palatal plicre, it is natural that species 

 representing certain intermediate stages should occur, 



Clausilia micropeas Mlldff. PL XXVIII, figs. 41, 42, 43. 



Von ?iI()llendorff, Journ. Asiatic Soc. Beng., LI, Pt. 2, No. 1, p. 12 ; 

 LIV, Pt. 2, No. 1, p. 64. 



"^A specimen from Hungerford's collection, doubtless one of the 

 original lot, Avas kindly lent me by Mr. E. R. Sykes. On account 

 of its relationship with the following species, figures and descrip- 

 tive notes are here given. It has not before been figured. 



The pale buft, slender shell is attenuated above, and consists of 

 nearly 9, moderately convex whorls. It is delicately costulate- 

 striate. The aperture is piriform-ovate, with moderately reflexed 

 lip, which is quite deeply eraargiuate above. The superior lamella 

 is vertical, rather slender and high, marginal, and continuous with 

 the spiral lamella. The inferior lamella is deeply receding, not 

 visible from in front. "Within it ascends straightly. The sub- 

 columellar lamella is wholly immersed. Within, the spiral and 

 inferior lameilre are of equal length, ascending to a point on the 

 ventral side just above the superior lamella. The principal plica 

 is rather short, not quite a half -whorl long, its lower end visible 

 deep within the throat, whence it extends almost past a strictly 

 lateral position. Below it there is a rather long upper palatal 

 plica, and then a very low, rather wide and straight lunella. No 

 lower palatal plica. 



The long, narrow clausilium (PI. XXVIII, figs. 44-46) is 

 parallel-sided, slightly acuminate below, and not emarginate pos- 

 teriorly. 



Length 10.5, diara.'2 mm. 



In this specimen the lunella is apparently better developed than 

 in that opened by Dr. von MollendorfF, who in his first description 

 states that there is a short upper palatal plica and sometimes a 

 second punctiform one, the latter evidently being the vestige of a 

 lunella. In his second article he finds " that there is an indica- 

 tion of a lunella below the second (generally 2)unctiform) ^^'il^ital 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



plait." In the specimen before me, the structure is clearly a& 

 described above and figured on my plate. When low, ill -developed 

 or " puuctiform," these palatal structures are doubtless subject to a 

 somewhat wide range of variation, although the difference between 

 a " puuctiform plica with the indication of a lunella," and a 

 " low, ill-defined lunella" occupying the same position, appears 

 greater in the statement than the structure itself. 



Compared with C. perpallida, this species differs in having the 

 principal plica longer, and the superior lamella a little more 

 prominent. The striation is also a trifle coarser, and the form 

 more cylindric, less tapering. These differences do not seem to 

 me to be of specific importance. 



Clausilia micropeas var. perpallida Pilsbry. PI. XXVIII, figs. 50, 51, 52. 

 C. perpallida Pils., Nautilus, XIV, p. 108 (January, 1901). 



Shell rimate, slenderly fusiform, finely and distinctly striate, 

 pale corneous. Apex obtuse, the first whorl globose; spire some- 

 what attenuated above. Whorls 9^, convex, the sutures impressed, 

 last whorl but slightly narrower than the penultimate, somewhat 

 compressed. Aperture piriform, slightly oblique, with rather 

 distinct, slightly retracted sinulus. Peristome somewhat thick- 

 ened, reflexed, continuous, Superior lamella vertical, continuous 

 with the spiral lamella, arising at the edge of the parietal li[). 

 Inferior lamella deeply receding, visible only in an oblique view, 

 within straightened and thickened below. Both the spiral and the 

 inferior lamellse penetrate inwardly to a fully ventral position, 

 and are of about equal length; the former becoming very high 

 for a short distance, just within the position of the palatal arma- 

 ture. Subcolumellar lamella is deeply immersed and either not 

 visible within the aperture, or showing the end only in an oblique 

 view. Principal plica less than a half-whorl long, the end visible 

 within the aperture, inner end extending a little beyond a short, 

 slightly curved, or forwardly diverging lateral upper palatal 'phca; 

 below this, and not connected with it there is a low callous pad 

 representing the lunella; no lower palatal fold. Clausilium long, 

 slender and parallel-sided, somewhat acuminate toward the a^Dcx, 

 tapering to the filament, the sides and apex thin; in profile seen 

 to be curved, bow-like. 



Length 11.4, diam. 2.6 mm. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OI" THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Xisliigo, province Uzpii (]Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 79,725 

 Coll. A. K S. P., from No. 4606 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Distinguished by the pale color, subobsolete lunella, and absence 

 of any lower palatal plica. It is closely related to G. mleropea-s, 

 from which the shorter principal plica separates it. 



Clausilia micropeas var. hokkaidoensis Pilsbry. PI. XXVIII, figs. 47, 48, 49. 

 C. hokkaidoensis Pils., Nautilus, XIV, p. 103 (January, 1901). 

 Shell similar to var. jierpallida except in the following charac- 

 ters: it is of a light brown color; the spire is a little less attenuated 

 above; the peristome and superior lamella are thinner; the spiral 

 and inferior lamelke penetrate somewhat deeper; and the lunella 

 is more distinctly developed, narrow and straight, extending down- 

 ward to the position of the (wanting) lower palatal fold. Whorls 



Length 11.2, diani. 2.3 mm. 



Length 10, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Kayabe, Ojima, Hokkaido Island. Types No. 79,321 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 5466 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the HemiiihcBdum referred to in these Proceedings for 

 1900, p. 674, as occurring with C. monelasmus. I at first consid- 

 ered it specifically distinct, but am now disposed to look upon it as 

 merely a northern race of C. micropeas of Hondo Island. It 

 tapers more than C. micropeas which has a somewhat cyliudric 

 contour. 



Group of C. aivajiensis. 



Clausilia harimensis Pilsbry. PL XXVI, figs. 16, 17, is. 

 Pilsbry, Nautilus, XIV, p. 108. 



Shell rimate, slender, gradually tapering to a rather acute apex, 

 light brown, finely and weakly striate, more strongly and regu- 

 larly so on the last two whorls, especially t^ie last one. Spire 

 gradually tapering, the last two whorls of about equal size. 

 Whorls slightly over 9, moderately convex. Aperture trapezoidal- 

 piriform, sinulus well developed; peristome thin, whitish, narrowly 

 reflexed, continuous, emarginate at the position of the superior 

 lamella. Superior lamella marginal, rather high but slender, 

 oblique, disconnected from or sul)Continuous with the spiral lamella. 

 Spiral lamella ascending to a merely ventral position, very high 

 inside. Inferior lamella deeply immersed, visible in an oblique 




I'JOl.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



view only, straighteueJ inside, thickened below. Subcoluniellar 

 lamella immersed, the end visible in an oblique view, bat usually a 

 weak continuation reaches to the edge of the peristome. Princi- 

 pal plica a half-whorl long, the lower end visible within the aper- 

 ture ; extending inward beyond the lunella. Upper palatal plica 

 short, joined in the middle to the uari'ow, well -developed lunella, 

 which descends obliquely, and curves backward below; the re- 

 curved lower end representing a lf)wer palatal fold. Clausilium 

 (PI. XXVII, figs. 19, 20, 21) narrow, parallel-sided, abruptly 

 curved where it passes into the wide filament, stralghlened toward 

 the rounded, hardly angular apex; columellar side emarginate at 

 the origin of the filament. 



Length 11.5, diam. 2.8 mm. 



Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types Xo. 79,133 Coll. 

 A. X. S. P. 



Allied to G. awajiensis Pils. , bat that species is far more obese, 

 with tapering, compressed last whorl. 

 Clausilia perignobilis n. sp. PI. XXVI, figs. 13, 14, !.'>. 



Shell rimate, fusiform, attenuated above, moderately swollen 

 below, pale brown, densely and finely striate. Whorls about 10, 

 moderately convex, the early ones corneous, forming a slender 

 apical portion, the last whorl somewhat compressed laterally. Aper- 

 ture trapezoidal-piriform, slightly oblique, the siuulus somewhat 

 retracted; peristome whitish, more or less emarginate above, very 

 narrowly reflexed. Superior lamella small, vertical, reaching the 

 margin, continuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella very 

 deeply receding, hardly visible from the mouth except in an 

 oblique view. Subcoluniellar lamella emerging, usually distinct to 

 the lip-edge. Principal plica fully a half-whorl long, visible in 

 the aperture, and extending inward beyond the upper palatal 

 plica. Lunella lateral, oblique, shaped like the letter J, the lower 

 end curving inward, the upper end joining the middle of a rather 

 short upper palatal plica, which converges inwardly toward the 

 principal plica. 



Length 14.5, diam. 3 mm.; longest axis of aperture 3.2 mm. 



Length 12.3, diam. 2.7 mm. 



Length 12.3, diam. 3 mm. 



Okinoshima, Tosa, Shikoku Island (types Xo. 80.813 Coll. 

 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 584 of Mr. Hirase's collection). 

 31 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



I at first identified this species with C. ir/)whilis Sykes/ described 

 from Kinuayarna, Shikoku Island, but upon requesting a com- 

 parison with the type of that species, Mr. Sykes noted several 

 important differences. The first two or three whorls in C. ignobilis 

 are much larger, not so slender and pointed as in C. perignobilis ; 

 and the lunella is#bow-shaped, as in C. shikohiensis, not J-shaped. 



In other words, the lunella in ir/nobllis and shlkoknensls unites 

 with the lower, outer end of the upper palatal plica, curving 

 gradually and imperceptibly into it, the united plica and lunella 

 having the shape of a drawn bow, Avhile in C perignobilis the 

 lunella unites with the middle of the upper palatal plica, like the 

 letter J. 



In C. perignobilis the spiral and inferior lamellffi are both high 

 and lamellar within, of equal length, attaining barely a ventral 

 position. The inferior lamella ascends rather straightly, and is 

 not spiral, seen from the back in a broken specimen, but is rather 

 thick. It gives off a branch toward the superior lamella, on the 

 parietal wall. 

 Clausilia perignobilis var. kocMensis nov. 



Similar to C. jjerignobilis Pils. , from which it differs in the more 

 robust, broader contour, more widely reflexed peristome and 

 coarser striation of the latter part of the last whorl. 



Length 15.5, diam. 4 mm. 



Length 13.6, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Kochi, province of Tosa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 

 6576). 



The t7-shaped lunella has the form of that of C. perignobilis. 



Section STEREOPHiEDUSA Bttg. 

 Clausilia japonica var. perobscura nov. 



Similar to japonica, but of a very dark, almost blackish, brown 

 color, and sculptured with much coarser, more widely spaced rib- 

 strise. Suture with a whitish margin below. Lower palatal fold 

 very small. 



Length 25, diam. hardly 6 mm. Whorls 11. 



Shirono, Buzen (Mr. Y. Hirase;. 



It occurred with, or at least was sent with, a rather obese form 



*Proc. Malac. Soc. Lond., I, p. 261, and these Proceedings for 1900. ]). 

 G82, footnote. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



of C japonlca, having the usual fine, sharp striation of that 

 species. 



Section MEG.4L0PH.EDUSA Boettger. 

 Clausilia Hiraseana Pilsbry. PI. XXVI, flgs. 24, 25, 2G. 



Shell rimate, strong, the last two whorls of about equal diameter,, 

 and forming half the shell's length, those above rapidly diminish- 

 ing, the lateral outlines becoming somewhat concave toward the 

 apex, the earlier three whorls being of about equal diameter; dark 

 reddish brown, with a pale band below the suture, the earliest 

 whorls white. Surface usually with a brilliant gloss, sculptured 

 with coarse, stronrj, slightly ivaved or uneven ribs, which occa- 

 sionally anastomose or branch, and become finer on the upper, 

 imperceptible on the earliest whorls. Whorls 11^ to 12, but 

 several are self- amputated in old individuals; they are convex and 

 parted by well-impressed sutures. The last whoid, viewed dorsally, 

 is narrower than the swollen preceding whorl, and is rather com- 

 pressed, hardly convex. Aperture rhombic-ovate, vertical; peris- 

 tome continuous, reflexed, flesh-tinted, whitish at the edge. Supe- 

 rior lamella small, marginal, oblique, continuous with the spiral 

 lamella. Inferior lamella low and i-eceding, within rather 

 straightly ascending and strongly thickened below. Subcolumellar 

 lamella deeply immersed, not visible in a front view, but its end 

 may be seen by looking obliquely into the aperture. Principal 

 plica short, its lower end visible deep within the aperture, upper 

 end scarcely extending inward beyond the palatal armature. 

 Palatal pliciB or folds lying a little dorsal of a lateral position, 

 four in number, equidistant, all strongly developed though short; 

 the upper fold a little longer, diverging from the principal plica, 

 the lower (fourth) fold slightly longer than the two median, and a 

 little arched upward in the middle. No lunella. 



Oausilium evenly and rather strongly arcuate, long and rather 

 narrow, parallel-sided. The apex is slightly acuminate on the 

 columellar side, being rounded and strongly thickened; on the 

 palatal side straightened, a little concave (PI. XXVI, figs. 

 22, 23). 



Length 27 to 29-J, diam. 6 mm. 



Okinoshima, province Tosa (Y. Hirase). 



A fine, handsome species, easily known by its strong sculpture. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['Tuly, 



which fiufls no parallel among known Japanese Clausiliidce. It 

 is allied to C. Fultoni Sykes, described from Kinnayama, Shikoku 

 Island, a species with fine striation. 



Family PUPID^. 

 Bifidaria armigerella var. luchuana no v. PL XXVI I r, fig. 54. 



Shell similar to ^. armigerella (Reiuh.), but with aa infra- 

 parietal lamella developed. Length 2.25, diam. 1.2 mm. 



Kunchan, Okinawa (types No. 80,992 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 6196 of Mr. Hirase's collection), and Yayeyama (No. 619 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection). 



The type lot contains one sinistral specimen. B. armigerella 

 (Reinhardt) is described and figured as with but two teeth on the 

 parietal margin, evidently the angular and parietal lamellie. It is 

 from ^Nlisaki, in the province of Sagami. 



Vertigo Hirasei Pilsbry. PI. XXVIII, fig. 53. 



Pilsbry, Nautilus, XIV, p. 128 (March 1, 1901). 



Shell very minute, openly rimate, ovate, brown, glossy, some- 

 what transparent, faintly striatulate. Whorls 4i, the last a little 

 contracted and straightened near the aperture. Aperture trun- 

 cate-ovate; peristome thin, hardly expanded, the outer margin 

 straightened but not inflexed to form a sinulus, although it pro- 

 jects forward in a slight point or angle, visible when viewed in 

 profile. Parietal wall bearing a rather strong lamella in the mid- 

 dle; columella with a somewhat smaller lamella; palatal plicoe 

 two, near together, the lower larger, elongated, the upper tuber- 

 cular, sometimes obsolete. 



Alt If, diam. 1 mm. 



Yanagawa, province Chikugo, Kiushiu Island (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Types No. 79,738 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 570 coll. Hirase. 



Belonging to the V. modesta group, this species is smaller 

 than its allies. As in some forms of V. modesta, the upper palatal 

 fold is sometimes obsolete. The only other Japanese Vertigo 

 described, to my knowledge, is V. hijdrophila (Reinh. ), from the 

 opposite end of the empire, Hakodate, Hokkaido Island. Rein- 

 hardt' s species belongs to the group of V- ovata, and has five or 

 .«ix teeth. It is about the size of T^ Hirasei, measuring If by 

 1 mm. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



EEFERENCE TO PLATES XXV, XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII. 



Plate XXV, Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Clausilia {Euphoidusa) Tryoni. Hachijo 

 Island. 



Fig. 4. — Clausilia {Euphcedusa) Hunfjerfordiana. Kara, Yamato. 



Fig. 5. — Clausilia (Evphwdusa) monelasmns. Kayabe, Ojima. 



Fis-s. 6, 7, 8. — Clausilia (Euphcedusa) cuholostoma. Mikuriya, Surnga. 



Figs. 9, 10. — Clausilia {lieinia) varic(jata var. nesioticu. Hachijo 

 Island. 



Figs. 11, 12. — Clausilia (Reinia) 'cariegata A. Ad. Takasaki, Kozuke. 



Plate XXVI, Figs. 13, 14, 15. — Clausilia {Hcmiphcedusa) peritjnohilis. 

 Okinoshima, Tosa. 



Figs. 16, 17, 18. — Clausilia (Hemiphcedusa) liarimensis. Kashima, 

 Harima. 



Figs. 19, 20, 21. — Clausilia {Hemiphcedusa) liarimensis. Clausilium. 

 Fig. 19, profile view from coliimellar side ; fig. 20, view of interior face, 

 tilted to show shape of the apex ; fig. 21, the same, showing posterior 

 emargination, the apical end foreshortened. 



Figs. 22, 23. — Clausilia {McgalopheEdusa) Iliraseana. Clausilium. 

 Fig. 22, showing shape of apex ; fig. 23, shape of posterior end, the apical 

 end foreshortened. 



Fig-f. 24, 25, 26. — Clausilia {Megalophcedusa) Hiraseana. Fig. 26, nat- 

 ural size. 



Plate XXVII, Figs. 27, 28, 29, 30, 31.— Clausilia (Hemiplimlusa) 

 graciUspira, green specimen. Fig. 30, showing form of the apex of the 

 clausilium ; fig. 31, the posterior emargination. 



Figs. 32, 33, 34. — Clausilia {Hemiphcedusa) gi'acilispira, reddish speci- 

 men. 



Fig. 35. — Clausilia {Tyrannophcedusa) mikado. 



Figs. 36, 37. — Clausilia {Tyrannophmdusa) iotaptyx yar. clava. 



Fig. 38. — Clausilia {Tyrannophcedusa) iotaptyx. 



Figs. 39, 40. — Clausilia {Zaptyx) hachijoensis. 



Plate XXVIII, Figs. 41, 42, 43. — Clausilia {Hemiphcedusa) micropeas. 



Figs. 44, 45, 46. — Clausilia {Hemiphoidusa) micropeas, Clausilium. 

 Fig. 44 showing shape of ape.x; ; fig. 45, profile from columellar side ; fig. 

 46, shape of posterior end, the distal end foreshortened. 



Figs. 47, 48, 49. — Clausilia {Hemiphcedusa) micropeas yar. hokkaicloensis. 



Figs. 50, 51, 53. — Clausilia {Hemiphcedusa) micropeas var. perpallida. 



Fig. 53. — Vertigo Hirasei. 



Fig. 54. — Bifidaria armigerella var. luchuana. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF ROBERT HENRY LAMBORN. 

 BY CARRIE B. AARON. 



At Horublue Hill, Chester county, Pa., not far from the his- 

 toric Kennett, whose beauties have been the theme of Bayard 

 Taylor's pen, Robert Henry Lamborn was born, October 29, 1835. 



His boyhood was spent in the home of his fathers, and he was 

 thus surrounded by the advantages of inhei'ited prosperity. His 

 father was a member of the Society of Friends, and was an intel- 

 ligent man of refined tastes, a close observer, a bright conversa- 

 tionalist and a wide reader. The son inherited his prepossessing 

 appearance, courteous manner, dignified bearing and agreeable 

 disposition. 



Young Lamborn's education was given a scientific turn by the 

 influence and patronage of his uncle, Jacob Pierce, who served as 

 Librarian of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia from 

 December, 1817, to December, 1826, and who, in the early days 

 of the institution, had, at one time, all its collections stored in 

 one of his spare back rooms. No doubt the youth received his 

 first inspiration for " collecting " while in such environment. 



After receiving a common-school education and a special train- 

 ing at the Polytechnic College in Philadelphia, he determined to 

 continue his studies in civil engineering abroad. He secured means 

 to do so by the publication of original essays on the metallurgy of 

 copper, silver and lead,^ works which, although long superseded, 

 were considered ably written and used as lext-books both here and 

 abroad. He became a student of the Royal Saxon Mining Acad- 

 emy of Freiberg, and the School of Mines in Paris, graduating 

 from the University of Giessen, from which he later received the 

 degree of Doctor of Philosophy. 



Soon after the outbreak of the Civil War, Dr. Lamborn returned 

 from Europe and joined the army, serving with the Anderson 



^ A Treatise on the Metallurgy of Copper, J. Weale, London, 1860, and 

 A Treatise on the Metallurgy of Silver and Lead, J. Weale, London, 1361 . 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPIIIA. 487 



■Cavalry at the Battle of Anlietam, under Captain Palmer. He 

 became captain on ihe staff of Gen. John F. Reynolds in 1862. 



After the war he was twice elected City Surveyor of Trenton, 

 N. J. He was engineer in charge of fuel and iron rails on the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad when coal was displacing wood as fuel for 

 engines, and steel was finally supplanting iron. He was Secretary 

 of the American Iron and Steel Association at the period of its 

 development into an institution of national importance, and when 

 the publication of iron and steel statistics became a necessity. He 

 was Secretary, Ti*easurer and Director of the first railroad to con- 

 nect the Mississippi river and Lake Superior, and founder, Treas- 

 urer and Director of the Western Land Association, which began 

 the building up of Duluth when the town consisted of but seven 

 houses. He was made President and Director of the National 

 Land Improvement Company. He participated in founding the 

 towns of Colorado Springs and Manitou, and in colonizing the 

 country at the base of Pike's Peak. 



Early in his career, while residing in Pittsburg, where he was 

 appointed the first chemical expert for the Pennsylvania Railroad, 

 Dr. Lamborn became acquainted with Mr. Andrew Carnegie and 

 others who have done so much for the development of the indus- 

 trial resources of western Pennsylvania, with whom he maintained 

 a life-long friendship. Mr. Carnegie writes of him: "As a 

 young man he was thoroughly practical, quiet, reserved, dignified, 



eminently scientific He wore kid gloves, which were then 



rare in western Pennsylvania; this fact rendered him somewhat 

 an object of suspicion at first, something rather effeminate ; one 

 had only to know him to see how he survived his kid gloves. Year 

 after year he gained more and more the respect and confidence of 

 all of us, and finally became a friend and one of the circle whose 

 loss was deeply deplored." 



Dr. Lamborn, as General Manager of various Western rail- 

 ways, introduced the first coke blast furnaces and the first Besse- 

 mer steel ingot and rail works west of the Missouri river. 



While engaged in extensive railroad and mining interests, he 

 lost no opportunity of studying the clifl!' dwellers and other primi- 

 tive inhabitants, making at the same time collections of pottery 

 and ethnological objects which he presented to various institutions. 



While in Mexico he devoted much attention to the art of that 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jul\% 



country, subsequently publishing his observations in 1891 under 

 the title, Mexican Paintings and Painter.'?, Bouton, N. Y. The 

 Lamborn Collection in Memorial Hall, Philadelphia, contains the 

 material secured in Mexico, as well as many specimens gathered 

 in Europe to illustrate the history of civilization in the Italian 

 Peninsula, beginning with relics from the prehistoric Terra Mane 

 period and from the almost j^rehistoric Etruscan times. 



While engaged in building the Lake Superior Railroad, Dr. 

 Lamborn suffered so from the attacks of countless mosquitos, that 

 he became interested in extermination of the insect, and later 

 offered prizes for the three best essays on the subject. These were 

 published under the title Drag onflies vs. Mosquitos: The Lamborn 

 Prize Essays, D, Appleton, New York, 1890. 



As a beekeeper Dr. Lamborn will long be remembered by many 

 friends who had received from him colonies of Italian bees. He 

 enjoyed the careful study of the social organization of a hive, 

 his special interest being the development of a stingless bee. While 

 intent upon these investigations his identity as a railroad magnate 

 would be quite lost under his bee hat and veil. 



While the name of Robert H. Lamborn will not be found 

 recorded among those of the great scientists of the world, his 

 environments, the natural bent of his mind, his broad views of 

 life, together with an executive and business ability far beyond the 

 average, constituted a unique personality. His interests in mining 

 and metals and the demands of business made him a constant 

 traveler over large areas. It was thus impossible for him to give 

 the sustained attention necessary to effectively cultivate the many 

 subjects of natural history which he loved, and in which he might 

 have become eminent if his interests had been more concentrated. 



Philadelphia was his favorite city. During the last years of his 

 life he retained here a domicile, and would probably have made 

 his home here had his life been prolonged. 



Dr. Lamborn expressed his opinions of the unequal distribution 

 of wealth in a manner which showed his altruistic notions as to- 

 the power and influence of money when used productively. He 

 believed that great fortunes should be regarded as capital in trust 

 for the permanent benefit of society, and that the owner of a large 

 amount of money could erect no better monument to himself, than 

 by systematically employing a great number of persons with the- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHrA. 489 



aim of improving their social couditious. He was opposed to 

 indiscriminate charity, regarding it as one of the canses of 

 pauperism and the natural demoralization which is the usual 

 result of receiving something for nothing. 



That Dr. Lamborn recognized the institutions which foster the 

 various branches of science as fitting beneficiaries of his wealth was 

 evidenced by the placing of his collections of ai'clueological books, 

 ethnological objects, Etruscan relics, Mexican pottery, etc., where, 

 free to the public, they ma}'' be used for reference and instruction 

 as additions to the educational resources of the several repositories. 

 He advocated the opening of all museums, parks, art galleries 

 and places of healthful recreation to the public on Sunday, that 

 all might be brought in contact with the beautiful in nature and 

 with man's best handiwork. He placed none of his collections in 

 any museum which exacted an admission fee. 



Although Dr. Lamborn was a man of large means, he fre- 

 quently suggested money-making schemes to young people whom 

 he wished to employ, by offering work on a profit-sharing basis, 

 his object being to engage the earnest attention of students and 

 to develop a love of research, ends more likely to be secured by 

 copartnership than by patronage. As an incentive to study, he 

 frequently offered prizes of money for the investigation of vari- 

 ous scientific questions, his interest being esj^ecially in the direction 

 of the cultivation of bees and flowers. 



Shortly before his death Dr. Lamborn placed a sum of money 

 with the President of Swarthmore College to be paid in prizes for 

 the two clearest and most useful essays upon the theme, " AVhat 

 important inventions, discoveries, observations, ideas or acts tend- 

 ing to advance civilization have been contributed by members of 

 the Society of Friends, or by persons descended from members of 

 that Society, or by persons guided or employed by such members, 

 with an estimate of the number of members composing the Society 

 each twenty years since its foundation." Some essays were 

 written in response but have not been published. 



During the greater part of his active life Dr. Lamborn was 

 conscious of the existence of organic cardiac weakness, which, it 

 is believed, deterred him from marrying, and resulted in his sud- 

 den death in New York, after a slight, apparently trivial, indisj)o- 

 sition, January 14, 1895. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Dr. Lamborn's success in life was due to his persistent efforts to 

 master difficulties, the possession of the loftiest aims and an invin- 

 cible purpose of acting for the right. 



^Vll knowledge which he acquired by personal research or through 

 his patronage of students he cheerfully gave to the world. Science 

 has been enriched by his benefactions to the several institutions in 

 which his library and collections have been placed. 



His special interest in the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, his devotion to its objects and his approval of its 

 administration have been most practically indicated by the terms 

 of his last will which left to the Society without conditions his 

 entire estate for the advancement of its work in l)iology and 

 anthropology. Although, because of a legal technicality — a ques- 

 tion of domicile and a provision of New Yoi'k law which seems to 

 have been framed solely for the benefit of lawyei's — his benevo- 

 lent intention has not been entirely fulfilled, the portion of his 

 estate of which the Academy has become possessed by an agree- 

 ment with the heirs-at-law, forms a most important addition to its 

 resources and will enable the Society to effect such development in 

 the departments indicated as will constitute a lasting memorial of 

 its generous benefactor, who, by the magnitude of his gift, stands 

 first among the many earnest men devoted to the advancement of 

 knowledge who have substantially manifested their interest in its 

 well-being. 



Miss Anna Wharton, in the following ode, has briefly given 

 expression to the feelings of many who hold Dr. Lamborn in 

 grateful and appreciative memory : 



Esteem he won from many loyal friends, 



To whom his well-stored mind and humor keen, 

 His generous heart, where kindly traits convene, 



Had drawn him by that bond which nothing rends. 



And now where his remembered image blends 

 With thronging shadows of tiie world unseen, 

 That honored figure of the stately mien 



Is crowned with light which grateful memory lends. 



His life so full of thought and effort high, 



Brought that success which is to sloth unknown, 



But as he had not formed that dearer tie 



Which makes a home and kindred of one's own, 



There at the last no helping hand was nigh, 

 No love to soothe him, and he died alone. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



August G. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notices of Xew Laud Snails from the 

 Japanese Empire," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for pub- 

 lication. 



The death of D. Calvin INIensch, M.D., Ph.D., a member, 

 July 30, and of Charles Mohr, a correspondent, July 17, 1901, 

 were announced. 



August 20. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



"A New Species of Coluber from "Western Texas," by Arthur 

 Erwin Brown, 



' ' Peculiarities of the Terrestrial Larva of the Urodelous Batra- 

 chian Plethodon cinereus," by Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr. 



The death of Louis Schneider, a member, August 14, 1901, was 

 announced. 



August 27. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



Thomas Lauder Bruuton, of London, was elected a (Correspondent. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



A NEW SPECIES OF COLUBER FROM WESTERN TEXAS. 

 BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



On June 18 a large and handsome Coluber was received at the 

 Zoological Gardens from Mr, E. Meyenberg, a resident collector 

 of the Society at Pecos, Texas, Avhich both in color and scutellatiou 

 differs greatly from any species of the genus previously collected in 

 the United States. 



The locality of its capture was given by Mr. Meyenberg as the 

 Davis Mountains, fifty miles southwest of Pecos, near the head of 

 Toyah creek. 



As it seemed unlikely that so large and striking a snake could 

 have hitherto escaped notice in a region comparatively well known 

 to collectors, description of the species was withheld and a liberal 

 reward was offered for additional specimens, the fortunate result of 

 which has been the receipt on August 13 of two younger, living 

 snakes from the same locality, presenting similar characters, and 

 a fourth specimen on August 16. 



All doubt as to the fixed characters and the place of origin of 

 these snakes being removed, the species is here described : 

 Coluber subocularis sp. nov. Plate XXIX. 



Specific characters : Head broad and flat on top. Body stout. 

 Tail short. Rostral broad and low. A row of small accessory 

 plates below the eye and preocular. Preocular in contact with 

 the frontal. Temporals small and numerous. Scales in 31-35 

 rows. Anal divided. Body color yellow, with a series of black 



H-shaped dorsal blotches with pale cen- 

 tres, the lateral arms being continued 

 by a paler shade, and forming a pair 

 of longitudinal stripes. Head and belly 

 unmarked. 



Type specimen. Xo. 13,733 Acad- 

 emy Collection, from the Davis jNIountains, Jeff. Davis county, 

 Texas. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



In the type specimen, which is adult, the head is broad, flat on 

 top and distinct from the neck, which is rather slender; the body 

 is stout and the tail a little less than one-eighth of the total 

 length. 



Rostral nearly twice as broad as high, barely visible from above, 

 luternasals narrow in front, half the length of prefrontals. One 

 pair of pi'efrontals. Frontal rather broad behind, one-third longer 

 than ils greatest breadth, the anterior corners cut ofi^ to form an 

 oblique suture with the preocular. Suture between the parietals 

 equals the length of the frontal, or the distance between the frontal 

 and rostral. Two large nasals, the nostril between them, situated 

 high up and directed rather upward. Loreal longer than high, 

 its upper border sloping downward and backward. One large 

 preocular, reaching the frontal. In each of the specimens a row 

 of two or three small accessory plates more or less completely sepa- 

 rates the eye, the preocular and the hinder end of the loreal from 

 tne labials, but they present variations in detail. The type has 

 9 upper labials on one side, and there are three accessory plates, the 

 first lying on the 3d and 4th, the second on the 4th and 5th, and 

 the third on the 5th labial; ou the other side there are 11 labials, 

 the first accessory lying on the 4th and 5th, the second on the 5th 

 and 6th, and the third on the 6th, the labials being wholly ex- 

 cluded from the orbit ou both sides. The largest of the smaller 

 specimens has 10 labials on each side, and the accessory plates are 

 as in the type. In the third specimen there are 11 labials on each 

 side, on one of which only the two anterior accessory plates are 

 present, and the sixth labial enters the orbit behind them; on the 

 other side, the 6th labial also reaches the eye, and all three 

 accessory plates are present, but the two hinder are small and are 

 pushed forward. In the smallest specimen the labials on one side 

 are 10, the first and second accessory plates only are present, 

 permitting the fifth labial to enter the eye; ou the other side, the 

 labials are 11, and the three plates completely shut out the 

 labials, as in the type and the second specimen. Three postocu- 

 lars, the inferior extending forward under the eye. The temporals 

 are small and irregular, from 3 to 5 in the first row. Lower 

 labials 14, the hinder ones small and scale-like. Five lower 

 labials in contact with the anterior chin shields; the hinder pair 

 shorter and widely separated. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugllSt^ 



Scales in 33 rows, with two pits; the outer row very slightly 

 enlarged; 27 to 29 rows faintly keeled. 



Ventrals 270; anal divided; subcaudals 70 pairs. 



Total length 1,590 mm. (tail 190). 



Color bright yellowish buff, with an orange tinge anteriorly; 

 head more ashy, without markings on top or sides. Two very dis- 

 tinct black stripes, two or three scales wide, separated by three and 

 two hall rows, begin on the neck and run back to the tail, becom- 

 ing blackish brown posteriorly. At intervals of about eight scales 

 they are connected by narrow crossbars of the same color, the 

 first of which is about three inches behind the head. The stripes 

 are at first jet black, but after a short distance the portion mid- 

 way between the crossbars fades to maroon, leaving the black 

 sections outlined as a series of H-shaped dorsal blotches, the cen- 

 tres of both the crossbars and the lateral arms being paler. There 

 are 24 of these spots on the body and 8 on the tail, where they 

 lose much of their characteristic shaj^e. On each side is a row of 

 ill-defined, cloudy spots, rather higher than long, extending to the 

 ends of the ventrals; they mostly alternate with the dorsal spots, 

 but an occasioual one is opposite. Traces of a short, broken black 

 line on the sides of the neck suggest a second stripe parallel to 

 that on the back. Belly white with a faint yellowish tinge, 

 unmarked, except for a dusky shade on the suture between the 

 subcaudals, and a cloudy spot on the hinder margin of each scutum 

 on the anterior half of the tail. Chin and throat pure wliite. 



The above color description was taken from the type in life, 

 ■when freshly caught, but much of the intensity has already faded, 

 after two weeks' immersion in spirits. 



The largest of the three specimens now living in the Zoological 

 Society's collection measures 915 mm. (tail 125). It has 35 rows 

 of scales, of which about 15 are very faintly keeled. As 

 nearly as it is possible to count them in a living snake, the ven- 

 trals are about 240; subcaudals about 77. There are 25 dorsal 

 spots and 8 on the tail, and the body color is paler and more ashy 

 than in the type. 



The third specimen is 684 mm. long (tail 98) ; the scales are in 

 31 rows, about 13 of which are faintly keeled; ventrals about 

 245; subcaudals about 68. The color is similar to the last 

 described, but there is a small dusky spot at each of the anterior 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



and lateral angles of the frontal plate. There is the same number 

 of dorsal spots as in the type. 



The fourth example is 472 ram. long (tail 67) ; scales in 81 

 rows, of which 15 are keeled; ventrals about 240; subcaudals 

 about 63. The color is very similar to the type, but less intense, 

 and there are but 20 dorsal spots on the body, with 8 on the tail. 



In all the young individuals the light portion of the dorsal 

 stripes, continuing the lateral arms of the H-shaped spots, is less 

 distinct than in the adult, and the whole under surface is pearly 

 white, with indications of the cloudy markings under the tail ; the 

 carination of the dorsal scales is so indistinct that it is hard to 

 determine its exact extent. 



The bright colors and the strong contrasts shown in life by the 

 adults, render this one of the most beautiful of North American 

 snakes. The pattern on the dorsal region is simply the extreme 

 development of the tendency toward longitudinal extension of the 

 corners of the spots, which is shown at times in some other species, 

 such as C. ohsoletus confinis, which occasionally exhibits even the 

 neck-bands. It is also suggested on the forepart of the body in 

 C. llneatlcollis Cope, but from these it differs widely in scutella- 

 tion, and its real relations are with the section of Coluber repre- 

 sented by the Mexican C. triaspis and C. mutahUis, which tend in 

 the direction of the nearly related genus Pltyophis through P. 

 vertebndls, from which, however, it is abundantly distinguished by 

 the generic characters and by the curious fact that the color shading 

 is completely reversed, the spots in C. subocularis being black 

 anteriorly and fading toward the tail, while in all species of 

 Pltyophis the exact opposite occurs. 




496 riiocEEDixcis of the academy of [August, 



NOTICES OF NEW LAND SNAILS FROM THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 

 EY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Continuiug his zoological researches in the islands south of 

 Kiusiu, Mr. Hirase has had the two principal islands of the 

 *' Northeastern group " of the Loo Choo chain explored for land 

 snails. These islands, Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-no-shima (Yaku- 

 shima), belong politically to the Province of Osumi, and hence in 

 Japan are not ordinarily included in the Loo Choo Islands. I 

 shall discuss their faunal relations more fully at another time, but 

 it may be said here that while there is one species of land snail, 

 Trochomorpha Gouldiana Pils., identical with a species of Oshima, 

 the rest of the fauna, though composed almost wholly of endemic 

 species, is more nearly related to that of Kiusiu than to the Loo 

 Choo fauna proper. 



OYOLOPHORID^. 

 Spiropoma Nakadai n. sp. 



Shell discoidal, with very wide, bowl-shaped umbilicus, and 

 nearly flat spire, except that the first whorl projects when not worn; 

 solid, yellowish-brown, rather dull, sculptured Avith slight growth- 

 lines only. Whorls 4^, convex, the last one very deeply descend- 

 ing in front. Aperture quite oblique, nearly circular, the peris- 

 tome built forward, becoming free from the preceding whorl, and a 

 little contracted. Diam. 10, alt. 4.8 mm.; diam. 9, alt. 

 4.7 mm. 



Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 658). 



In the larger S. jcqmnicum the last whorl descends much less in 

 front; the peristome is expanded and not so much, usually not at 

 all, built forward. It is named for Mr. Nakada, an earnest and 

 successful collector for Mr. Hirase. 



Spiropoma is a new name recently substituted for Cozlopoma, 

 which was found to bo j^reoccupicd. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Pupinella rufa var. tanegashimae nov. 



Smaller than P. rufa from Hondo, Awaji or Kiusiu, or the 

 Tsushima or Iki forms; whorls 6; peristome very heavy. Alt. 

 9.5, diam. above aperture 4.3 mm.; alt. 8.3, diam. 4 mm. 



Pupinella Funatoi n- ^]i- 



This species differs from P. rufa in being much smaller, with only 

 5^ whorls, the spire more abruptly tapering above; more solid; 

 darker colored. The aperture is vertical, the lower margin not in 

 the least carried forward as it is in P. rufa. The whole peristome 

 is exceedingly thick and strong, with an inner elevated rim about 

 the orifice. The posterior orifice is not channel-like; and the 

 columellar orifice is a small slit, which does not deeply penetrate 

 the lip, as it does in P. rufa. A glossy callus spreads much fur- 

 ther up on the ventral face of the whorl than in P. rufa. Length 

 7^, diam. above aperture oh mm. 



Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 665a). 



It seems curious that there should be a slightly differentiated 

 race of the widespread P. rufa, and a well-characterized species 

 of the same genus, on so small an island as Tane-ga-shima. This 

 species is named for Mr. Funato, one of the efticient assistants who 

 have enabled Mr. Hirase to make such notable additions to our 

 knowledge of Japanese mollusks. 



Diplommatina tanegasliimse n. sp. 



Shell small, obese, pupiform, light red, composed of 5^ convex 

 whorls, the penultimate whorl widest, those above tapering regu- 

 larly; last whorl much contracted. Sculpture of widely spaced, 

 delicate riblets on the spire, the last two whorls with very much 

 finer, far closer rib-strire. Aperture circular, the peristome ex- 

 panded, thickened Avithiu, slightly duplicate. Columellar tooth 

 strong and acute; palatal plica short, distinct, situated above the 

 columella. Length 2.6, diam. 1.6 mm. 



Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 668). 



Somewhat allied to D. saginata, of Oshima. 



HELIOINID^. 



Helicina yaeyamensis n. sp. 



Shell very small for the genus, thin, rather pale red, dull, 

 faintly marked with growth-lines, and a few spiral striae are 

 usually developed ; shaped like H. verecunda. Whorls 4i, con- 

 32 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [AugUSt,. 



vex, the last rounded at the periphery, a little compressed above 

 and below. Aperture oblique, semicircular, the outer lip simple, 

 unexpanded, 7iot thickened. Umbilical callus whitish, rather large 

 and densely pitted. Alt. 2.2, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Yaeyama, in the southwestern group of the Loo Choo Islands 

 (Mr. Y. Hirase, >so. 624). Types No. 80,967 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



About half the dimensions of H. verecimcht of Okinawa, but 

 with tlie same number of whorls, and a simple, unexpanded lip. 

 I at first supposed the specimens were young, but the receipt of a 

 second lot from Mr. Hirase, agreeing in size and other characters 

 with the first, indicates that they are full grown. 



ZONITIDuE. 

 Microcystina Hiraseana n- sp. 



Shell trochiform, with minute, nearly covered perforation; 

 brown, glossy and smooth, slightly transparent. The periphery 

 has a narrow, acute, projecting keel, visible in the suture above. 

 Spire conic, the apex obtuse. Whorls 5^, quite convex ; base con- 

 vex, narrowly impressed in the centre. Aperture shaped like a 

 crescent with truncate ends, slightly oblique; peristome simple and 

 acute, the columellar margin reflexed at the perforation, thickened 

 within with a white callus, sometimes sinuous. Alt. 3, diam. 

 3.5 mm. 



Tane-gashima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 667). 



This species resembles 31. ceratodes (Gude) in general features, 

 but is more elevated, with more exserted keel, a less varnish-like 

 gloss, and more closely coiled whorls. 



MacrocWamys tanegashimae n. sp. 



Siiell small, depressed, minutely perforate, smooth and glossy, 

 rich brown, somewhat translucent. Spire low-conoidal, obtuse at 

 the apex. Whorls 4^, moderately convex, rather closely revolving, 

 appressed at the suture, which appears margined; the last whorl 

 nearly double the width of the preceding, rounded at the periphery, 

 moderately convex beneath. Aperture crescentic, slightly oblique, 

 the lip simple and thin, abruptly reflexed at the columellar inser- 

 tion. Alt. nearly 2, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 666). 



About the size and general appearance of the shell I called 

 Vitrea Iiariiaeusis, but which I subsequently decided to be young 




1901.] NATURxVL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



Macrochlamys Doenitzi (Reiuh.); but the species from Tane-ga- 

 shima has a narrower umbilical perforation, and the spire is more 

 developed, with an additional whorl. 



CLAUSILIID^. 

 Clausilia oscariana n. sp. 



Shell fusiform, rather slender, not subject to truncation, brown, 

 finely striate, the last whorl more coarsely so. Whorls lOi to 11-|, 

 the upper part of the spire decidedly attenuated. Aperture piri- 

 form, the peristome thickened and reflexed, with several more or 

 less distinct folds on its face, adjacent to the subcolumellar lamella. 

 Superior lamella rather small, oblicpie, not connected with the 

 spii'al lamella. Inferior lamella deeply I'ecediug, straightened and 

 subvertically ascending within. Subcolumellar lamella emerging. 

 Principal plica long. Lunella curved inward above, straightened 

 and connected with a short palatal plica below, being thus shaped 

 like an inverted letter J. Length 12-14.5, diam. 2.8-3.3 mm. 



Fukuregi, Province of Higo, Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 674). 



This Hemiphcedasa belongs to the group of C. plieUabris A. 

 Ad. (bilabrata Smith), but this is a much smaller species and 

 difters in various structural characters. It is named in honor 

 of Dr. Oscar Boettger, the acute and lucid master in the study of 

 ClausiliidoB. 



Clausilia higoensis Q. sp. 



Shell fusiform, very much attenuated above, brown, finely 

 striate, the last whorl tapering. Whorls 10, the last more coarsely 

 striate dorsally, having a low, inconspicuous wave or prominence 

 behind the outer lip. Aperture piriform, the peristome slightly 

 reflexed, somewhat thickened. Superior lamella rather small, 

 oblique, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior 

 lamella deeply receding, rather straightly ascending inside. Sub- 

 columellar lamella immersed, or nearly emerging. Principal plica 

 extending beyond the lateral lunella. Lunella strongly curved 

 inward below, straightened above, where it joins the middle of a 

 short, oblique upper palatal plica. Length 14-15, diam. 3.7— 

 3.8 mm, 



Midumate, Province of Higo, Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 

 677). 



A species of the Hemiphaedusan group of C. aivajiensis, perig- 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



nobills, etc., more attenuated above than any of the known species 

 except C. awajiensls, Avhich is a more obese form with narrow lip 

 and emerging subcolumellar lamella. 



Clausilia ischna n. ?p. 



A slender and elongate member of the group of C. aivajiensis, 

 the length five times the greatest diameter; rather thin, brown, 

 ■with about 11^ wliotls; finely striate. Aperture small, the i:)eri- 

 stome reflexed, rather narrow. Superior lamella compressed, 

 oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella very 

 deeply receding. Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed. Lu- 

 nella curved inward below, straightened above, and connected with 

 a short, oblique upper palatal plica, being shaped like the letter 

 J. Length 16.5, diam. 3 to 3.3 mm. 



Kochi, Tosa (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 657a). 



More slender than any other known species of the group of C. 

 awajiensis. 



Clausilia ischna var. neptis nov. 



Paler, nearly corneous or whitish; less slender, the last whorl 

 more coarsely striate; peristome broader; sinulus more retracted. 

 Whorls 11. Length 15.5 to 16.5, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Occurred with the preceding. 



Clausilia tanegasMmae n. sp. 



Fusiform, rather slender, obsoletely marked with growth-lines, 

 the last whorl striate, pinched up in a rather acute strong wave 

 behind the peristome. Whorls 10^. Aperture ovate, the peri- 

 stome well expanded. Suj^erior lamella small, oblique, marginal. 

 Inferior lamella receding, not visible from in front. Sub- 

 columellar lamella emerging. Lunella curved inward above, 

 straight below, its lower end joined to a lower palatal plica near 

 its inner end. Length 18i, diam. 4^ mm. or smaller, length 

 16^ mm. 



Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, Xo. 602). 



The Hemlphcedusce of the northeastern Loo Choo Islands belong 

 to several groups special to those islands. The group of C. tane- 

 gashimce has the internal structure of the plieilahris group, l)ut 

 there is a strong wave or crest behind the outer lip parallel with it. 

 The shell is very solid and strong. 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Clausilia ptychocyma n. sp. 



Obesely fusiform, nearly smooth except the last whorl, which 

 has a wave-like ridge aud several strong wrinkles behind the lip. 

 Whorls about 8-|. Aperture squarish-ovate, the peristome thick, 

 narrowly reflexed. Superior lamella small and obtuse. Inferior 

 lamella very deeply receding. Subcolumellar lamella immersed. 

 Lunella very low, narrow, straight above, curved inward and 

 meeting the outer end of a short lower palatal plica below. 

 Length 11, diam. 3 mm. 



Tane-ga-shima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 6()4a). 



Clausilia ptychocyma var. yakushimae nov. 



Wrinkles on the latter part of the last whorl more numerous 

 aud less prominent; superior lamella often subobsolete; subcolu- 

 mellar lamella less deeply immersed, or emerging. Lunella more 

 distinct. 



Yakushima (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 6646). 



The following species belong to another group of Ilemiphcedusa, 

 characterized by the very strongly spiral inferior lamella. 



Clausilia entospira n. sp. 



Fusiform, rather slender, yellowish, smooth, the latter half of 

 last whoii coarsely striate, whorls about 8i, moderately convex. 

 Aperture small; peristome narrowly reflexed, very much thick- 

 ened, flattened. Superior lamella small, remote from the spiral 

 lamella. Inferior lamella forming a prominent, heavy fold rather 

 deep within the mouth, strongly spiral within the last whorl. 

 Subcolumellar lamella immersed. Lunella very strong, strongly 

 curved inward below, straight, above. No palatal plicae except the 

 principal plica. Length 10, diam. 2^ mm. 



Tane-ga-shima, 

 Clausilia pinto n. sp. 



Shell small, fusiform, dull brownish-olive, nearly smooth. 

 Whorls 8, moderately convex. Aperture small, squarish-ovate; 

 peristome thick, expanded, subreflexed. Superior lamella small, 

 vertical, marginal, barely continuous with the spiral lamella. In- 

 ferior lamella very deeply receding, straightened within the last 

 whorl. Subcolumellar lamella emerging. Lunella connected 

 above with the middle of a short upper palatal plica, strongly 




502 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



curving'inward at its lower end, being shaped like the letter J. 

 Ivength 9.3, diam. 2.4 mm. 



Tane-ga-shiraa (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 663 j. 



This species looks like a Zaptyx, but wants the accessory lamellse 

 and plici^e of that group. I am disposed to consider it a degener- 

 ate^member of that subgenus. Otherwise, the receding inferior 

 lamella would cause it to be ranked as a Hemiphcedusa. 



Clausilia (Stereophgedusa) stereoma n. sp. 



Excessively strong, glossy, olive-yellow, weakly striate ; very 

 obese below, the upper third very much attenuated, latter half of 

 the last whorl compressed. "Whorls about 8^. Aperture piri- 

 form, the peristome thickened, narrowly reflexed. Superior 

 lamella rather small, continuous with the spiral lamella; inferior 

 lamella forming a strong, subhorizontal fold; subcolumellar 

 lamella emerging. Principal plica rather short, lateral; upper 

 and lower palatal plicae of moderate length, oblique, two minute 

 palatal plic?e between them. Length 21i, diam. 6 mm. 



Yaku-shima (No. 670 of Mr. Hirase' s collection). 



Specimens from Taue-ga-shima, which may be called var. cog- 

 nata, are referable 'to the same species. They are a little larger, 

 reddish-brown, perceptibly thinner than the types though still very 

 strong, and with 9i whorls (No. 661 of iMr. Hirase's collection). 



There is also a Avell-marked variety found ou Yaku-shima, much 

 smaller, length 14^^ to 17 mm., more slender, but the color of the 

 type. This may be called var. nugax. 



These forms closely resemble C. brevior v. ]\Iart. in the obese 

 contour, very much attenuated above; but they are excessively 

 strong, while brevior is thin. One species of the brevior group 

 occurs in southeastern Kiusiu, C. Addisoni Pils. This was orig- 

 inally described as a variety of C. brevior, but on opening addi- 

 tional specimens I find that there is a more or less distinct, straight 

 lunella between the second and lower palatal plicte, not present in 

 C. brevior. jNIoreover, C. brevior seems to be widely separated 

 geographically from Addisoni. I think therefore that the latter 

 will stand as a distinct species. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



PECULIARITIES OF THE TERRESTRIAL LARVA OF THE URODELOUS 

 BATRACHIAN, PLETHODON CINEREUS Green. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR., PH.D. 



To the -writer's knowledge no description has been published of 

 the larval stage of this strictly terrestrial species, which occurs 

 through the United States of America east of the Mississippi river. 

 Cope^ states: " Its habits are entirely terrestrial, as it is never, 

 even in the larval stage, found in the water. It is abundant under 

 stones and logs in the forests everywhere, and does not occur in 

 open fields. The eggs are laid in a little package beneath a stone 

 in a damp place. When the young emerge they are provided with 

 branchiae, but these soon vanish, and they are often found in this 

 young stage apparently quite developed." I have collected several 

 hundred individuals near West Chester, Pa., at all seasons of the 

 year, and have never found, them in streams or boggy places, but 

 most generally in woods on hillsides at varying elevations above 

 water-courses, sometimes several hundred feet from any water, and 

 occasionally in open fields and hillsides which in the summer season 

 become very dry. For the most part they are found beneath wood 

 and stones, and even in mid -winter may be found in these places, 

 though at that time generally deeper in the ground than in summer. 



This being, then, such a strictly terrestrial species, it was to be 

 anticipated that its larval stage would show deviations from the 

 larvse of the other Urodelea which develop in the water. In July 

 ■of the present year I found five eggs of Plethodon einereus under a 

 stone, and curled around them, on guard, an adult which dissection 

 proved to be a female; these ova were larval stages, and the exam- 

 ination of them showed many interesting modifications, as follows: 



The eggs are relatively very large for the size of the species, and. 

 •each enclosed in gelatinous envelopes. Active movements of the 

 heads and tails of the larvae could be observed within the innermost 

 membrane. But the striking peculiarity, even to the naked eye, 



i"The Batrachia of North America," Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 34, 

 1889. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



is a large, uearly spherical yolk-mass arouud which the larva is 

 curled, or rather into which it is pressed by the tension of the 

 egg-envelopes. Plate XXX, fig. 1 shows a larva freed from its 

 envelopes before killing so that it had straightened out; and fig. 2, 

 an older larva, similarly treated, but which had still retained much 

 of its normal position. The surface of the yolk -sphere is well sup- 

 plied witli blood-vessels, as shown in fig. 1, an antero-ventral one 

 being particularly prominent. The figures show' that there are three 

 pairs of gills present (in fig. 2 only one gill is shown on the right 

 hand, for the sake of clearness) ; and in the older larva the gills 

 are of great size, much branched, the first the smallest, the second 

 largest, lamellar and richly vasculated. The fore and hind limbs 

 are already well marked, the toes on both faintly outlined; but 

 most remarkable is the fact that the posterior limbs are larger 

 than the anterior, which might indicate that the former develop 

 first, in contradiction to what is known of other Urodelea. The 

 head, the limbs, and all the trunk region of the embryos, except 

 the end of the tail, are dorso-ventrally flattened, due undoubtedly 

 to pressure against the yolk-sphere, but become more cylindrical 

 after removal from the egg-envelopes. The head and trunk are 

 pigmented with dark-brown chromatophores, which in the trunk 

 region are arranged metamerically, while the yolk-sphere is not 

 pigmented and of a yellow color; and as the figures show, the eyes 

 are very large. A mouth was present in'^both cases, but there 

 appeared to be no sucking disks upon the lower side of the head. 

 In fig. 3 is shown a camera drawing of a section through a 

 stage somewhat younger than that of fig. 1 ; this section was made 

 through an embryo curled closely around the yolk-sphere, in such 

 a manner that the anterior region of the head, shown on the 

 upper side, is cut medially, while a portion of the bend of the 

 trunk, seen on the right-hand lower side, is cut obliquely. This 

 figure is to illustrate the relations of the intestine to the yolk-mass. 

 The mouth {Mo.) leads through the pharynx (Ph.) and oesoph- 

 agus ( CE-s.) to the stomach (St.), and posteriorly to the latter is a 

 short diverticulum (-D.). The small intestine (/ui. ) is seen to be 

 tubular in its proximal portion, but more distally to pass over 

 into the wall of the yolk-mass (Yk.). The yolk-mass of this 

 stage is seen to be composed of large yolk-cells, the boundaries of 

 which are very distinct. In this fig. 3 the relative diniensions of 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



yolk-mass to the body are not shown, since the head hides a part 

 of the yolk-raass, and since the head is cut obliquely and so 

 appears larger than it would he in strictly median section. 



But the relations of the intestine to the yolk-mass are more 

 clearly shown in the camera drawings 4 and 5, which are dorsal 

 portions of cross-sections of the larva shown in its entirety in 

 fig. 1. Fig. 4 is in a plane behind the gill region, and shows how 

 the intestine (Int.) is connected with the yolk-sphere {Yk.'). 

 The epitheMum of the intestine, the nuclei of which are shown as 

 black spots, expands ventrally into ihe yolk-sphere on the dorsal 

 aspect of the latter. The epithelium of the intestine ends abruptly 

 against the peripheral layer of the yolk-sphere, and does not pass 

 over into it gradually. The nuclei of the yolk-sphere are much 

 smaller and peripherally placed, and in places are found small 

 clusters of nucleated cells. The yolk-mass of this larva shows 

 that the cell boundaries of the yolk-cells have disappeared, and 

 consequently the latter are undergoing regressive changes ; the 

 yolk appears as a mass of globules of different volumes suspended 

 in a structureless fluid and without nuclei. Fig. 5 represents the 

 dorsal half of a cross-section through the same larva, in a plane 

 about half-way between the anterior and posterior limbs. In 

 this region there is no tubular intestine, nor any open groove of 

 intestinal epithelium upon the yolk-sphere, the entoderm being 

 represented simply by the yolk-sphere (Yk.), the small nuclei of 

 which are on its periphery. 



These sections make clear the nature of the yolk-mass, and its 

 relation to the intestine. From the mouth to the commencement of 

 the small intestine the alimentary tract is tubular, and has the same 

 appearance in* its epithelial lining as in like stages of other Ba- 

 trachia; the same is true also for the rectal region of the alimen- 

 tary tract, which is likewise tubular. But the middle region of 

 the intestine is composed of the yolk-mass, which in the earlier 

 stage shown in fig. 3 is made up of large yolk-cells, and in the 

 latter stage of figs. 4 and 5 of a mass of yolk-globules with a 

 peripheral layer of small nucleated cells. Accordingly the large 

 yolk-sphere is not a yolk-sac, since it is an integral part of the 

 intestine. 



The larva shown in fig. 1, of which figs. 4 and 5 represent sec- 

 tions, is in quite an advanced stage. Externally can be seen the 




506 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



gills aud l)oth pairs of limbs. The sections show that prouephroi 

 are present in the anterior trunk somites, and metanephroi (M. T., 

 fig. 5) in the posterior somites. There is a cartilaginous brain 

 capsule, cartilaginous vertebral arches {V.C., figs. 4 and 5), and 

 cartilages for the bones of the limbs. The notochord {N. C. ) is 

 undergoing degeneration; the somatic mesoderm (*So.J/. ) is 

 divided into its various components — muscle somites, sclerotom, 

 etc. The segmental ducts {S.D.) extend posteriorly and open 

 into the rectum. The coelom ( C) is large, the median* mesenteries 

 well formed (J/.), the liver (L.) aud hepatic ducts present. The 

 epidermis (Ed.) is thick and glandular on the dorsal side of the 

 body, aud the genital ridges (G.R., fig. 5) developed. All these 

 points show an advanced stage of development, Avhich makes it 

 the more remarkable that the middle iutestiue should be represented 

 by a large yolk -sphere. 



The sides aud ventral aspect of the yolk-sphere are covered with 

 a very thin envelope composed of three cell layers closely apposed, 

 the flattened ectoderm (Ect, figs. 4, 5), the somatic mesoderm 

 (So. 31.) and the sphlanchiuic mesoderm (»S/;.Ji. ). The fact that 

 the body wall is excessively thin upon the ventral side of the yolk- 

 sphere, svould show perhaps that this wall had extended around 

 the yolk not until late in the development. The blood-vessels of 

 the yolk-sphere have their position iu the mesodermal layers. 



In conclusion, we find the principal modification of these larval 

 stages to consist in the presence of a large yolk-sphere, which is 

 an integral part of the mid-gut, while the anterior and posterior 

 portions of the gut are tubular. Peculiar also is the great size of 

 the posterior limbs and of the gills (fig. 2), and the continuance 

 within the egg-envelopes after a time v/heu in other Urodelea the 

 larva has emerged from them. All these modifications must be 

 referred to the terrestrial life; and the great size and long continu- 

 ance of the yolk-sphere may l)e accredited the value of a source 

 of nourishment. A life under still dryer surroundings, and 

 longer life within the egg-envelopes necessitating a larger yolk- 

 sphere, might lead to the formation of a yolk-sac in the strict 

 sense by the holoblastic cleavage becoming mesoblastic. The case 

 of Pletliodon cinereus is but another to show how readily develop- 

 mental processes become modified by change of the environment, 

 and how much care must be used iu interpreting them in the 

 search for affinities. 




1901.] NATUIIAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 507 



A number of cases are known in the Anura of terrestrial ]arva3 

 with a large yolk-sphere, Avhich have been collected together in a 

 contribution by Miss L. Y. Sainjjson,^ but terrestrial development 

 in the Urodelea appears to be much less frequent. In the Ca^cilian 

 genus, IcJithyophiii, the embryology of which has been carefully 

 studied by the Sarasins/ there is a large yolk-sphere, which at first 

 becomes segmented only peripherally and not until much later 

 through its entire mass, so that here the development is at first me- 

 soblastic much as in a Sauropsidan. That may perhaps be found 

 to be the case in Plethodon also Avhen its early cleavage is studied. 

 In Ichthyophls the intestine lies at first as a straight open groove 

 upon the yolk (cf. the chapter in the Sarasins' monograph. Das 

 Schicksal des Dotters) ; then the yolk bends into a number of 

 lobes, which later become elongated and entirely covered by the 

 body wall. The intestinal groove of Ichthijophis is supposed by 

 these investigators to become a closed tube without growing round 

 the yolk- mass, but they did not have the necessary stages to show 

 the final fate of the yolk. The Sarasins laid particular stress 

 upon the peculiar development of the Civcilia in discussing their 

 relationships, as, e.g., in allying them with Amphiuma, which 

 Hay^ has shown to have quite a similar development. But the 

 fact that Amphiuma, the Cceeilia and Plethodon show great simi- 

 larity in their development, might prove rather that the formation 

 of a large yolk-mass with the embryo curled around it may be 

 merely the consequence of terrestrial development, and the simi- 

 larity express rather a case of convei'gence than of phyletic 

 affinity. The relationshi[)S of the Amphibia must be shown from 

 comparative anatomical standpoints, and not from the larval 

 development which obviously may be easily modified by change in 

 environment, as is particularly well shown in the Anura. 

 Brauer, who studied the development of the Ccecilian genus 

 Hypocjeophis from the Seychelles, where it lives wholly terrestrial, 

 concludes:* " Wenn auch kein Zweifel dariiber aufkommen kann, 



^ "Unusual Modes of Breeding and Development Among Anura," Amtri- 

 can Naturalist, 34, 1900. 



^ '' Ergebnisse naturwisseuschaftlicher Forschungen auf Ceylon,'' Wies- 

 baden, 1«87-1890. 



" Observations on Amphiuma and Its Young," American Naturalist, 



* '' Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Entwicklungsgeschichte und der Anatomie 

 der Gymnophiouen,'' Zool. Jahrh., 10, 1897. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



(lass die grosse Dottermasse bei den untersucliten Gymnophiouen 

 erst secuudiir erworben ist, uachdem die Entwicklung iiicht mehr 

 im Wasser ablief, sondern ganz aiif deni Laude, .... so ist 

 deslialb audi die Annahme, dass die Entwicklung durch die 

 grossere Dottermasse derart modificirt sei, dass eiu Yergleich mit 

 den iibrigen Amphibien nicht beriehtigt sei, meiner Ausiclit nach 



niclit zutreftend Aus diesen Betrachtungen ergiebt sich 



somit, dass der Keim der Cocilien im Wesentlichen denselben Ban 

 am Ende der Furchung hat wie der iibrigen Amphibien und dass 

 die scheinbar meroblastische Furchung in Wirklichkeit uur eine 

 durch den grossern Dottergehalt bedingte Variation der iniiqualen 

 Furchung anderer Amphibien ist. ' ' 



The only other case known to me of a Urodele with terrestrial 

 development (except the European viviparous Salamandra macu- 

 losa) is that of the Californian Autodax lugubris, as described by 

 Ritter and Miller.^ In this species the eggs are laid attached by 

 pedicels to stones on the land, there is a large yolk-sphere, large 

 gills, and apparently quite close similarity to the larval stages of 

 Flethodon. 



®"A Contribution to the Life History of Autodax luyulris Hallow.,'' 

 American Naturalist, 33, 1899. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



CYMBTJLIOPSIS VITREA, A NEW SPECIES OF PTEROPOD. 

 BY HAROLD HEATH AND M, H. SPAULDING. 



Ou tlie 27th of Deceral)er, 1900, a large number of iudividuals 

 of the species about to be described were taken at or near the sur- 

 face of Monterey Bay, California, and twice since that lime great 

 shoals have been noted in the same locality. With the use of 

 formalin, formalin-alcohol and picro-formalin their natural appear- 

 ance and structure have been ^ireserved with exquisite fidelity, and 

 will be more fully discussed in a later paper. 



This species falls naturally into the genus Cymbiiliopsis proposed 

 by Pelseneer^ which was made to embrace the two species C. ovata 

 and C. calcola, but differs from these in several important respects. 

 The " shell " or casque (Peck),^ slightly asymmetrical, possesses 

 the characteristic slipper form and bears on its external surface 

 numerous small rounded tubercles which become smaller and more 

 closely grouped together near the posterior-dorsal surface. Its 

 aperture is large, unarmed and much wider than in C. ovata, but 

 is almost identical with that of C. calceola, and as in the latter, 

 its large cavity extends to the dorsal extremity. The maximum 

 length of the casque is 4 cm., with a width of 2.5 cm. 



The broad, perfectly symmetrical flattened proboscis constituting 

 the head region is in contact with the upper surface of fin, yet 

 free from it to a point immediately in front of the central nervous 

 system. Its edges are grooved and lead into the wide funnel- 

 shaped mouth and oesophagus. Dorsal to the latter and symmet- 

 rically placed are the tentacles having the form of small knob-like 

 projections, each of which is supplied with a strong nerve from the 

 cerebral ganglia. Peck noted the occasional absence of these 



^ Report ou the Pteropoda collected by H. M. S. Challenger during the 

 years 1873-1876, Part LXV, p. 96. Vide also The Nautilus, III, p. 30, 

 1889, where Dall shows CymhuUopsis to be identical with his earlier genus 

 Corolla. 



^ Peck, J. I., "On the Anatomy and Histology of Cymbuliop^is calceola," 

 Studies from the Biological Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University, Vol. 

 IV, No. '6. 




510 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



structures in C. calceola, but it was found to be present in each of 

 the fifty specimens of C. vitrea examined on this point. The 

 oesophagus leads directly backward into the visceral mass, where it 

 joins the relatively voluminous stomach provided with five large 

 and several small teeth. The intestine makes one turn on the 

 ventral surface of the stomach and opens into the mantle cavity 

 shghtly to the left of the median line. The remainder of t the 

 visceral mass is composed of the large liver and the gonad, which 

 has the form of a thin sheet investing the surface of the visceral 

 mass except at its forward extremity, where the albumen 'gland 

 and seminal receptacle are situated. 



Cymbulioj)sis vitrea, ventral view, natural size. C, casque or "shell ;" 

 /., foot or fin ; k., kidney within mantle cavity represented by stippled line ; 

 tt., nucleus or visceral mass, showing termination of intestine and pigmented 

 cap ; p., pallial gland. 



The mantle cavity is placed on the ventral side of Ciimbuliopsis, 

 and anterior to the visceral mass a portion of the bounding epithe- 

 lium is modified into the pallial gland. This is crossed by one 

 complete and two incomplete transparent bands. Peck states that 

 the pallial gland is " almost symmetrical in this genus, being 

 twisted somewhat to the right, but the asymmetry was not marked." 



In C. vitrea the asymmetry is not especially apparent, but it is 

 twisted in the reverse direction to that described and figured bv 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



Peck, and it also differs iu being relatively larger and mucli nearer 

 the anterior margin of the casque. Beyond the pallial gland the 

 mantle cavity narrows and again enlarges to form the space 

 surrounding the visceral mass, kidney and heart. Peck's figure of 

 C. calceola represents the foot as extending to the anterior border 

 of the casque, while in G. vitrea this organ is relatively much 

 larger and projects beyond the shell almost half its width. Three 

 sets of muscles operate it as in the other species of the genus, and 

 a large number of pigment spots, probably sensory in function, are 

 scattered along its maro-iu. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



September 3. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, iu the Cliair. 



Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Probable Age of the Alabama White 

 Limestone," by Thomas L. Casey, was presented for publication. 



The death of Adolf Eric Nordeuskiold, a correspondent, was 

 announced. 



September 10. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



September 24. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled " Further Study of an Ant," by Adele M. 

 Fielde, was presented for publication. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XI. 



MONTGOMERY ON CHORDODES MORGANl AND C. PUERILIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XII. 



FOWLER. TYPES OF FISHES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XIII 



FOWLER. TYPES OF FISHES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XIV. 



FOWLER. TYPES OF FISHES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XV. 



FOWLER. TYPES OF FISHES. 





PROC, ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XVI. 



MAGNOLIA ACUMINATA. 



MEEHAN. BENDING OF MATURE WOOD IN TREES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XVII. 



yUERCUS PALUSTRIS. Q. COCCINEA. 



MEEHAN. BENDING OF MATURE WOOD IN TREES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XVIII. 



1 



CHAPMAN ON DASYPUS SEXCINCTUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XIX. 



14 15 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XX. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXI. 



PILSBRY DEL 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXII. 



PILSBRY DEL. 



PILSBRY. CLAUSILIID^ OF LOO CHOO ISLANDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXIII. 



PILSBRY DEL. 



PILSBRY. CLAUSILIID^ OF LOO CHOO ISLANDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901 



PLATE XXIV. 



REESE. FLORIDA ALLIGATOR. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1001. 



PLATE XXV. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXVI. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXVII. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXVni. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE X.XI.X. 



A. E. BROWN. COLUBER SUBOCULARIS sp. nov. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXX. 



MONTGOMERY. LARVA OF PLETHODON CINEREUS. 





1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51o 



ON THE PROBABLE AGE OF THE ALABAMA WHITE LIMESTONE. 

 BY THOMAS L. CASEY. 



The Jackson stage of the marine Eocene may, and probably 

 does, offer several lithological characters in common with the Vicks- 

 burg, but in the nature of its fossils it differs so profoundly that 

 it is impossible to conceive of aught else than the lapse of a greatly 

 prolonged time interval between the two horizons. Among some 

 240 species of the Jackson group I collected at Moody's 

 Branch and at Montgomery, La., and the bluffs below, I am 

 unable to recognize more than eight or ten which are unmis- 

 takably identical with any of a still larger series which 1 have 

 found in the Vicksburg beds during a residence of nearly two 

 years. It is true that there are quite a number of Vicksburg 

 species so closely related to analogues of the Jacksonian as to con- 

 clusively indicate a direct descent from the latter, but many of 

 these species belong lo ibat class which, from the isolation of their 

 environment, are peculiarly slow in evolutionary changes, such, for 

 example, as Dentallum and Cadulus and some of the small 

 bivalves, which from their frailness must live very secluded lives. 



The fact which most distinctly proclaims the revolution of 

 environmental conditions that must have been brought about 

 during the interval in question, and the probably great lapse of 

 intervening time;, is that so mauy highly characteristic Eocene 

 forms, such as Venericardia planicosta, Verticordia eocense, Galyp- 

 traphorus, Pseudoliva, Capidus, Volutilithes, Papillina, Lapparia, 

 and other mollusks, besides a number of very characteristic Tur- 

 binolid corals, completely disappear and leave no descendant in 

 any way related to them, for there are no species occurring in 

 the Vicksburg strata which recall any of these forms. And 

 again, there are many distinct types in the Vicksburgian, such 

 as Tritonopsu and Lyria costata, the ancestry of which cannot 

 be satisfactorily traced from the Jackson, and which must have 

 required a long time for their evolution. In addition to these 

 33 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



facts, there are several broad and striking differences between the 

 two faunas, such, for example, as the great abundance of Bryozoa 

 in the Jackson and the insignificant representation of this great 

 class of animal life in the Vicksburg. 



Because of the existence of most of these Eocene forms in the 

 Red Bluff bed, I am inclined to consider that horizon more 

 closely related to the Jackson than to the Vicksburg, in spite of 

 the greater' proportion of its species which have been identified 

 with the Vicksburgian. It is possible, also, that many of these 

 supposedly identical forms may prove to be more or less well 

 marked subspecies, and not exactly the same as their Vicksburgian 

 successors. However, not having visited the Red Bluff deposit as 

 yet, it would be unreasonable to pass any definite opinion on this 

 point. 



If my memory serves, Mr. Vaughan informed me some time 

 ago that he had found Alveiniis minutus at Claiborne, Alabama. 

 This species literally swarmed throughout the Jackson stage, and, 

 in fact, is one of the most characteristic upper Eocene species, but 

 no trace of it or of any allied species has occurred in either hori- 

 zon at Vicksburg, even upon diligent special search on the part of 

 the writer and careful washing of considerable quantities of marl 

 from various parts of the beds. The discovery of a species of 

 this genus in the Oligocene of Floi'ida by Dr. Dall is therefore 

 the more surprising. 



As a broad statement, therefore, it may be said that the diver- 

 gence of the Jackson and Vicksburg faunas is so radical as to 

 abundantly justify the assignment of them to different epochs of 

 the Tertiary — the Eocene and the Oligocene. 



It is here necessary to discuss the distribution in time of the two 

 species, Orbitoides mantelli and Pecten poulsoni, before alluding 

 to the White Limestone of Alabama, for these two species seem to 

 have been regarded, especially by Hilgard, as the conclusive ear- 

 marks of the Vicksburg formation. This is an error which has 

 caused much misapi^rehensiou, for there is abundant testimony to 

 prove that they both persist through such an extended range in 

 time as to deprive them of any such value. 



As for Orbitoides mantelli, I personally collected in two partial 

 days at Moody's Branch, and a portion of a day al Montgomery, 

 La., with subsequent washing of a little marl, seventeen speci- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



mens, some of which represented large and well-developed indi- 

 viduals. This species was therefore at least tolerably abundant 

 throughout the Jackson stage, and was probably in existence long 

 before. 



At Vicksburg there are two distinct horizons, as recognized by 

 Meyer,' but very inadequately and in part erroneously elucidated 

 by Hilgard. The lower Vicksburgian consists of alternate thin 

 strata of gray sands, sandy clays and variably, but usually loosely, 

 compacted white or gray limestone. The upper consists of a 

 much thinner bed of more or less red-brown marl, often indurated 

 into nodular masses, or subindurated, and without Irace of lime- 

 stone, having rarely, however, thin layers of glauconitic sands 

 and comminuted shells, in which entire specimens when found are 

 generally much distorted by pressure. 



The faunas of these two beds differ very markedly, and there 

 are probably not one-half of the species of either common to the 

 two. One of the chief points of distinction resides in the fact 

 that Orbitoides mantelli is virtually altogether wanting in the 

 lower or limestone bed and is abundant and fully developed in the 

 upper or marl bed. As this species existed in Jacksonian times, 

 however, it seems as though it must certainly occur in the lower 

 Vicksburg limestone, but at any rate it is so rare that I have 

 never observ^ed a specimen. The incongruity, therefore, of call- 

 ing the Vicksburg limestone an Orbitoidal limestone is sufficiently 

 evident; possibly the error occuri'ed by reason of the washing 

 down into the ravines of some material from the upper marls. It 

 is consequently certain, from the facts above mentioned, that 

 Orbitoides mantelli and its varieties existed through a considerable 

 portion of the entire duration of our early middle Tertiary, inclu- 

 ding and subsequent to the Jackson stage, and that it became alter- 

 nately abundant or semi-extinct according 'as surrounding condi- 

 tions favored or retarded its development. 



In regard to Pecten poidsoni, it is only necessary to refer to the 

 report on the Coastal Plain of Alabama, by Dr. E. A. Smith, where, 

 on page 237, this species will be found listed with the Bashi fossils 

 of the Lignitic stage. As there is no more reason to doubt the 

 correctness of this identification than there is to doubt the identity 



^ The two lower horizons of Meyer constitute, in ray opinion, but one. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



of the Vicksburg forms with the species iu question, it will be 

 readily perceived that Peden poulsoni, because of its extended 

 duration in time, is deprived of any decisive value as a criterion. 

 Besides this, however, I find that there are at Vicksburg two well- 

 defined subspecies, or perhaps closely allied distinct species, one 

 characterizing the lower and the other the upper horizon, which 

 have been indiscriminately alluded to as mulsoni for many years; 

 it is quite possible that neither of them is exactly the same as 

 that species, which was apparently described originally from the 

 White Limestone itself. 



On the Tombigbee river, near St. Stephens, and on the Ala- 

 bama river, near Claiborne, there appear more or less conspicuous 

 bluffs composed of a white limestone, which has been designated 

 the Alabama White Limestone. The lower portion of the bluff at 

 St. Stephens has been considered to be Jacksonian, while the 

 upper part, which is apparently a conformable continuation, 

 although differing noticeably in lithological character, has been 

 identified as Vicksburgian, primarily because the limestone here 

 becomes orbitoidal, and, secondarily, because it also contains a 

 few fossils, especially Peden poulsoni, which bear a strong resem- 

 blance to species occurring at Vicksburg. In accepting this as a 

 fact we are forced to admit that two horizons, diftering at least 

 quite as radically in their fauna as any other two consecutive stages 

 of the American Tertiary, are here conformably united in a con- 

 tinuous blufi of limestone. This would seem to be incongruous 

 and highly improbable on general reasoning, but in my opinion it 

 is not a correct statement of the case, and the above discussion of 

 Orbitoides and Peden poulsoni renders it quite unnecessary to form 

 any such conclusion. It seems much more probable that the 

 entire White Limestone of Alabama, including the coral lime- 

 stone, is intermediate in age between the Claiborne and Jackson 

 stages." I feel the more confident in this statement on again con- 



^The examples of Orbitoides coutaiued in a specimen of the White Lime- 

 stone from Clarke conuty, Ala., from the lir.>t bed above the Claiborne 

 sand, which I have before me, ditTer very nuuh from tliose occurring at 

 either Jackson or Vick>biirg in their much larger size; in fact they would 

 almost appear to constitute a distinct species, and in any event they repre- 

 sent the maximum development of the genus in the Southern Tertiary. 

 The Jackson and Vicksburg form is a degradational type derived from the 

 White Limestone, and, as the White Limestone form is the one which was 

 originally published under the name mantelli, it is the Vicksburg niodifica- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



suiting the report of Dr. Smith, where, ou page 109, it is said that 

 Venericardia planlcoda was found by INIr. Aldrich in the upper 

 part of the limestone near Claiborne, which is presumably the 

 orbitoidal part, and this at once proves that it cannot at least be 

 Vicksbmviau. If this is not conclusive, however, it can be sup- 

 plemented by another significant remark, made by Mr. Cunning- 

 ham on page 254 of the same report, to the effect that the orbi- 

 toidal or upper portion of the White Limestone contains large 

 numbers of " minute coralline branches." These are exceedingly 

 abundant in the fauna of the Moody's Branch beds of the Jack- 

 sonian, and constitute one of its conspicuous features, but they are 

 completely unknown from either the lower or upper horizons of the 

 Vicksburgian. 



It is probable that the uplift of the true Vicksburg beds was 

 very limited in geographical extent, and confined to the vicinity 

 of the capes or elbows of the coast separating, on both sides, the 

 Bay of Mississippi from the ocean to the south, and that the 

 so-called Vicksburg localities in eastern Mississippi are to be viewed 

 with suspicion. It will require something more than Dentalium 

 mississipjiiense, Pecten poulsoni and Orbitoides mcmteUi to prove 

 them even approximately synchronous, as these classic species are 

 all noticeably extended in vertical range. 



Mr. D. W. Langdon enumerates^ the fossils collected by him at 

 Byram Station, on the Pearl river. They are all Vicksburgian 

 with the exception of Capulus americanus, which is Jacksonian. 

 As this species has never been found at Vicksburg, the presump- 

 tion is that the Byram beds are older than the true Vicksburg- 

 ian, and this is further borne out by the fact, which I have 

 noted from personal observation, that the Byram deposit con- 

 tains, besides the species quoted by Mr. Langdon, a consider- 

 able number peculiar to it and apparently occurring nowhere 

 else. The evidence adduced by Mr. Langdon would seem to 

 show that there is a notable thickness of marine, though 

 scarcely fossiliferous, deposits between the true Jackson and 

 Byram, and it is probable that during this interval the Red Bluff 



tion which must be considered to be undescribed. In the Lower Claiborne 

 at Natchitoches, Li., another form of Orbitoides occurs, which is smaller 

 and thicker than that of Jackson and Vicksburg and probably specitically 

 different. 



■^ Amer. Jour, ^ci , XXXT, p. 205. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



beds were formed. The order of emergence of the various de- 

 posits — which were all more or less local — may therefore be stated 

 to be: (1) Jackson stage, (2) Red Bluff substage, (3) Byram sub- 

 stage, and (4) Vicksburg stage. The Scohinella ccelata men- 

 tioned by Mr. Langdon among the Byram fossils, is not exactly 

 the same as the form described from Vicksburg under that name, 

 but is a very well-marked variety or subspecies, related, in fact, 

 more closely to the form occurring at Red BlufT. The degenera- 

 tive Vicksburg modification, strangely enough, appears to be 

 entirely wanting in the lower — limestone — horizon, but is suffi- 

 ciently common in the upper marls, as in the case of OrMtoides 

 manteUi alluded to above. 




1901.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 519 



October 1. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" A New Species of Clavilithes from the Eocene of Texas," by 

 C. W. Johnson and A. ^Y. Grabau. 



" New Mollusks of the Japanese Empire," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



" A Quick Method of Testing for Gold," by Edward Gold- 

 smith. 



October 8. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



October 15. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 




620 proceedings of the academy of [oct. , 



October 22. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , iu the Chair. 



Miss Nichols requested permission, which was granted, to with- 

 draw her paper entitled " The Spermatogenesis of Oniscus asellus- 

 Linn," presented for publication July 16, 1901. 



October 29. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in^the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



Henry Fox and Howard Crawley were elected members. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : 




1901.] XATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



FURTHER STUDY OF AN ANT, 

 BY ADELE M. FIELDE. 



Argument. — That Stencunma fiUvmn piceurn^ is the bearer of 

 three distinct odors, perceived through the three distal segments of 

 her antennae: (a) A scent deposited by her feet, forming an indi- 

 vidual trail, whereby she traces her own steps, discerned through 

 her tenth segment; (6) an inherent and inherited odor, manifested 

 over her whole body, identical in quality for queens and workers 

 of the same lineage, a means for the recognition of blood-relations, 

 discerned by contact of the eleventh segment; (c) a nest-smell, 

 consisting of the commingled odors of all animate members of 

 the colony, diffused by them in air or ether, constituting an aura 

 whereby they distinguish their nest from those of aliens and 

 discerned through the twelfth, the distal, segment. 



That her behavior is influenced by a sensory memory; and that 

 while, without experience or instruction, she capably constructs 

 the dwellings of her species and tends the young, her criterion of a 

 nest-aura is established solely by association, and may be changed 

 many times during her life. 



That her care of the young is a reflex from the eighth and ninth 

 segments of her anteunre ; and that she receives an immediate 

 reward for her labor in the sustenance thereby obtained. 



That the gregarious habit of the ant is a conjoint result of the 

 reflexes from the five distal segments of her antennse. 



An Oriental folk-story ascribes to the ant a keen sense of 

 smell,'' and Occidental biologists grant its possession of this faculty. 



I have recently carried on experiments,^ using the maze heroin 

 described, whereby I believe it to be shown that Stenamma fidvum 

 piceum, aided by a sensory memory, finds her way by means of an 

 individual scent deposited from her feet, and that her perception of 

 this scent is through the tenth segments of her antennce. 



^ Stenamma {Aphanognster) fulvtim., Mayr ; subspecies aquia, Buck- 

 ley ; vaxieij piceum, Emery. 



^"The Origin of Ants," in Chinese Nights' Entertainment, hy A. M. 

 Fielde : G. P. Putnam's Rons, 1894. 



* At the Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Mass., May fo Octo" 

 ber, 1901. 




522 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



The Maze. 



The floor of the maze was a pane of clear glass laid ujiou white cardboard, 

 upon which the runs were indicated by letters and figures. The runs were 

 twelve milliineters or a half inch wide, and Avere separated by W'alls twelve 

 millimoteis high and twelve millimeters thick, built of strips of glass closely 

 joined to one another and 1o the floor by LePage's liquid glue, and dried 

 during several months before the nia/e was used in experiment. Tlie walls 

 were topped liy a layer of cotton wadding which was removed and renewed 

 whenever the maze was cleaned for a new exp-riment. The roof, laid upon 

 the wadding and closing the maze at the top, was a square of thin clear 

 glass diagonally divided across «''-&■', for convenience in uncovering only 

 half the maze at a time. Effort, was made to secure the same degree of light, 

 warmth and humidity in every ])art of tlie maze. 



At / a straight glass tube seven centimeters long communicated with a 

 small nest in which the ant household used in the experiment had been 

 long established. The tube i, as well as the nest, was completely darkened, 

 and was opposite the source of light. 



At 7 a glass tube, bent upward at its outer end, gave ingress to the ants 

 from n)y hand and was stopped by a plug of cotton when not in use. 



The distance from 7' to / was twenty-one centimeters, a little more than 

 eight inches. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIIIA. 523 



I placed some hundreds of pupre at the T corner, and taking 

 marked and unmarked ants from the nest I, introduced them to 

 the maze through the tube, T. In no case, except when mani- 

 festly lost, did any ant carry^ in a pupa without having first made 

 the journey without a burden. Sometimes an ant traversed more 

 than one run before she began the labor of carrying in, and if she 

 afterward used more than one of the runs she never used other 

 than those she had previously traversed, no matter how many of 

 her fellow burden-bearers were travelling the other routes. If the 

 glass floor was clean she apparently had greater difficulty in estab- 

 lishing her trail than when the floor was covered by Avood or by 

 earth. In the first case, she would go a short distance, as from 

 T to a^ or n'^, and return, and then would prolong her next jour- 

 ney as far as a* or n^, and she might make many excursions from 

 T over the same path before she discovered the entrance to the nest 

 at I. When the floor was covered with earth a single trip often 

 sufficed, and she began to carry in when on her second excursion 

 from T. The structure of the ant's feet adapts them to the partial 

 clasping of particles of earth, and it may be that pressure assists 

 in the deposit of the scent. 



Having begun to carry in, an ant usually continued her work 

 incessantly, making from thirty-seven to seventy round journeys in 

 an hour. No burden-bearing ant ever made a loop in her own 

 trail. The shortest run, c-d, was not oftenest taken, but no ant 

 ever carried in by a route longer than a single run, o, m, c-d, 

 n or h. 



The c-d run virtually counted as but one, for when any ant 

 had made the c or the d passage, she afterward used either side of 

 the central block c with little hesitation. 



There was no evidence that any ant was influenced by the fact 

 that the c-d run was shortest, and that there were certain ad- 

 vantages in following a straight line; but we should not therefore 

 hastily declare that ants have no reasoning power. The Chinese, 

 for reasons ^vell known to themselves, generally make their roads 

 crooked. 



The ingoings and returns of several marked ants during one 



*Tlie ants withdraw their youuo; from currents of air even more quickly 

 than from Hglit. If the ants liuddled upon the pupif, making their own 

 bodies a screen from the light, tbej were impelled by my gently blowing 

 into the tube 2' to search for a tranquil refuge iu the nest. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



liour were recorded. Dot One made seventy-two journeys, going 

 in and returning by the e-d run. Deviations, apparently caused 

 by pressure or by momentum, were sometimes made on departing 

 from Tor from I, but she never deviated from her trail more than 

 four times her own length without discovering her error and retrac- 

 ing her path into the c-cl run. 



Dot Two made sixty-one round journeys by the c-d run. Other 

 ants were at the same time going in and returning by the same and 

 by other routes. 



Dot Three made forty round trips. The first fourteen were all 

 by the n run. She was then carried, apparently by her own 

 momentum under a heavy burden, into the a run, and there 

 wandered to and fro, utterly lost, notwithstanding the frequent 

 passing of her comrades. She eventually made her way by the a 

 run into /. Somewhat later, under similar momentum, she like- 

 wise floundered through c-d, and then at intervals she afterward, 

 with no hesitation, four times took the e-d route to /. All her 

 other ingoings and all her returns were via the n run. A few 

 hours later, when I again set the ants to work. Dot Three again 

 took the n route, and in an hour made forty-eight round trips 

 thereby. A few times she made impetuous starts into other runs, 

 but she every time retraced her steps and followed her best-known 

 path. I then removed her to a Petri cell, closed the entrances to 

 all runs other than c-d and m, and put several unmarked ants to 

 the work of carrying in pupre. During that afternoon and the 

 succeeding forenoon, these ants made over three hundred round 

 trips through vi and c-d. When these two runs had thus been 

 thoroughly scented by other ants, and while their trails were yet 

 fresh, I unclosed all the runs and put Dot Three in through T. 

 After an absence of nineteen hours, she made ner first trip, with- 

 out a burden, through )i, and then resumed tJje carrying in of 

 pupoe, making fifty-four round journeys in an hour, going in forty- 

 eight times by the n run and six times by the c-d run, and return- 

 ing fifty-two times by the n run and twice by the c-d run. Not 

 once did she enter the m run, which had duriug the previous hour 

 been traversed hundreds of times by her comrades. 



The following day, no use having been made of the maze in the 

 interval, I again put Dot Three in at T. She at once went, with- 

 out a burden, through a, and returned through n. During the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIirA. 525 



next hour she made forty-six burden-bearing joui*neys through n, 

 returning forty-five times through ;; and once through e. She 

 undertook to carry in a larva larger than lierself and, after pro- 

 tracted and ineffective effort, dropped it at n:\ returned, and then 

 carried in a very small larva. On subsequent journeys she repeat- 

 edly passed over or close beside the dropped larva, but she seemed 

 to be aware that it had proven too heavy for her, and did not 

 renew her attempt to lift it. 



I then, during her absence in the nest, removed the earth over 

 a space of one centimeter from the floor at n"^, and washed the 

 glass floor and the neighboring walls and roof. On her return she 

 crossed the space unhesitatingly to the pupre pile at T, made two 

 burden-beariug journeys, one via c, one via a, with both returns 

 via n. She then came and examined the cleaned space, burrowed 

 in the bank at its sides, went to and fro several times over it, and 

 resumed her carrying in through this n run. 



Dot Four having first made without a burden excursions 

 through the 6, c, n, m and a runs, made fifty-five consecutive 

 burdeQ-bearing journeys, going in forty-five times by the a, twice 

 by the m, four times by the c-d, and four times by the n run. 

 Her returns were forty- nine times by the a, once by the m, twice 

 by the c, and three times by the n run. The b run was not again 

 entered. I then isolated her in a Petri cell, and tw'o days later, 

 having stopped the a run with plugs of cotton, I returned her to 

 the maze through T. She at once tried to enter a, pushing at the 

 cotton and endeavoring to creep under or over it. Finding it 

 impassible, she made several journeys through m. I then isolated 

 her two days more, unstopped «, and returned her to the maze 

 through T. She resumed her route through m, and made six 

 round trips by that run which she had used while a was stopped, 

 then she made a return through o, her older jDath, and from that 

 time all her ingoing journeys and returns were made by that route. 



Dot Five made sixty round trips, of which twenty-eight ingoing 

 journeys were made by the m, thirty-one by the a, and two by the 

 c-d run. Of her returns fifty-two w'ere made by c-d and nine, 

 at intervals, by m. When she had passed thirty-seven times 

 through m, I laid across its floor, at m^, while she was at T, a 

 strip of paper one centimeter wide. As soon as she reached it she 

 turned back with her burden and went in by c-d, returning as 




526 



PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF 



[Opt., 



usual by c-d. Twice more she likewise came to the paper, and 

 although several other ants had meantime passed over it, she 

 retraced her steps into c-d, and thereafter made no more excur- 

 sions into m, going always through c-d. 



Dot Six entered the maze at T, made her first round trip, with- 

 out a burden, through vi, then took a false start into c-d, wan- 

 dered there, reached 2, returned to m^ and followed the m run to 

 the nest. Thereafter she made nineteen journeys, going in fifteen 

 times through m and four times through n, and returning once 

 through n, and eighteen times through c-d. I then put a barrier 

 across 2, expecting her to turn back and take the m or n route, 

 but in returning on her trail she discovered what neither the ants 

 nor I had before observed, a small hole in the glass wall at h, and 

 through this hole she reached n. After that her journeys, made 

 with no hesitation, were as follows : 



25 " n-7i-d 



After Dot Six had several tens of times passed through the hole 

 in the wall, I stopped the runs from c-d at 2 and at 3, enclosing 

 two burden-beariug ants and a dropped pupa. The two ants had 

 trails directly to I, and when they found themselves unable to 

 proceed through .2 they turned back and repeatedly explored all 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



parts of c-d. If was plain that the trail of Dot Six through the 

 hole gave them no guidance. At last one of the two ants found 

 the hole, passed through it, made her way in, returned and carried 

 in the dropped pupa, passing the hole the second and third times 

 with no hesitancy. The trail of this ant, added to that of Dot Six, 

 apparently gave no clue to the remaining ant, for she continued to 

 hunt for an exit until she, too, finally found the hole for herself, 

 and went through it to I. During succeeding hours, after 2 and S 

 were unstopped, no more than the three ants, including Dot Six, 

 ever used the hole as a passageway. 



While the ants were cai-rying in pupie, one of the two queens in 

 the nest twice came out to the T corner, examined the pupse pile 

 and went back, but no woi'ker changed her route to follow that of 

 the queen. 



It is evident from the foregoing records, giving examples taken 

 from among many made, that the ant followeii her own trail, 

 taking it in either direction with equal facility. She was doubtless 

 influenced in her course by the topography of the ground. Dot 

 Seven always went in through the h run, passing close to the outer 

 wall at 6^ On returning she usually mounted a corner of the 

 inner wall near ¥' and scrambled down its vertical face. The 

 latter route was feasible for a return journey, but impi-acticable 

 for her when she carried a burden. 



When the ants regularly took one route for the outgoing and 

 another for the ingoing trip, they appeared to follow the line of 

 least resistance, or to be influenced by convenience. I have repeat- 

 edly seen ants change their customary route when they found their 

 progress hindered by other ants that were taking the same or the 

 opposite course. When ants journey in numbers they go by one 

 route and return by another, as human throngs divide, for mutual 

 advantage, into two processions for crossing a bridge, one moving 

 to the right, the other to the left. 



The ants cannot follow the trail of a foe. An intruder whose 

 aura has alarmed the colony may pass close to a resident, alert on 

 the warpath, and the resident will run to and fro with no clue 

 to the exact location of the enemy until the touch of an antenna 

 reveals it. 



Bethe holds that there is a polarization of the scent,* showing 



' Albrecht Bethe, Durfenwir denAmeisen und Bienen physchisehe Quali- 

 tiiten zuschreiben. Pfliiger's Archiv, Vol. 70, Jan., 1898. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the ant the direction toward or away from the nest. He caused 

 ants to make a path across a board, a section of which could be 

 made to revolve 180°. When the section was reversed, an ant 

 reaching the section from either direction w'as unable to directly 

 proceed. If the section was not reversed until the ant was upon 

 it, the ant AYould continue its way across the section, but on 

 coming to the end of the section would stop and give evidence of 

 having lost its trail. 



Perhaps by reversing the section the continuity of the indi- 

 vidual trail was broken, the ant being therefore unable to directly 

 proceed. My experiments show that the theory of polarization of 

 the scent is untenable. Dot Five, after establishing her trail, 

 made, in thirty minutes, twenty-eight round trips through a. 

 During her absence in the nest, at the end of every ingoing journey, 

 I changed the relative position of at least three centimeters of 

 earth forming her path, and I gradually extended the displace- 

 ments as far as from a^ to a^, being careful to make the road 

 level and quiet before her return. Not once did she hesitate or 

 wander during all these journeys, although in the twenty-eight 

 stirrings every millimeter of her trail had been displaced. Other 

 ants were equally able to follow their trail over displaced portions 

 of their path. 



I also caused many marked ants to make trails over strips of 

 wood covering the floor of the runs, and after the trails were 

 established I turned the strips end for end, being careful to 

 replace them so exactly that the continuity of the individual trail 

 should not be broken. In no case did an ant give sign of having 

 lost her trail. The advance of the ant over the reversed trail was 

 unhesitating even when the reversed strip was so much as eight 

 centimeters in length. 



A layer of washed earth* a millimeter or two in depth may be 

 sprinkled upon the trail without destroying it, as does a thicker 

 layer. The thin layer is doubtless pervious to the scent. The 

 trail may also be moistened for a distance of several centimeters 

 without destroying its continuity. Bui, as Bethe has pointed out, 

 the ant can be thrown off its trail by wiping the floor on which the 

 scent is laid, or by covering it with a strip of wood or of paper 



^ Earth taken from any Stenamma fulvum pieeum nest, well washed in 

 running water and then dried. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



529 



irom five to teu millimeters wide. The action of ihe ant when 

 the scent is obscured proves that her trail is individual, and that 

 it is under foot. She does not more readily pass the point of 

 obscuration on account of it having been previously traversed by 

 her comrades. Her action is the same whether she be the first to 

 arrive at the newly-laid flooring or whether many ants have ci'ossed 

 it before her. 



The power of perceiving the individual trail lies in the tenth 

 segments of the antennse. When 

 deprived of this segment the ant 

 is no longer able to find her way 

 in wilh the pupse, but wanders 

 about helpless and bewildered. 

 Ants deprived of nearly all of 

 the eleventh and all of the 

 twelfth segments continued to 

 carry the pup^ through the runs 

 of the maze, though with dimin- 

 ished physical vigor. The ant 

 could pick up her scent so long 

 as a tenth segment was intact, 

 and no louger. For experiments 

 in following the trail, I selected 

 ants that had been previously 

 distinguished by diligence in the 

 carrying in of pupre and later on 

 set them to work with clipped 

 antennse.' 



That memory 2)^oys ci part i)i 

 the journeys as well as in other 

 proceedings of ihe ant, is shown 

 by experiments made by me in 

 gradually increasing the width of 



' For removing the whole or any part of the antennse of the ants used in 

 the experiments described in this paper, tlie antennse were clipped with 

 sharp scissors, Ihe wound was merged for five seconds in eighty percent, 

 alcohol to coagulate the blood ; the aut was isolated upon a wet sponge in a 

 Petri cell, without food, for a day. and was thereafter daily placed upon some 

 acceptable food, such as moistened sponge cake, soft pie crust, or bread 

 touched with honey. No insect food was given, and the cell was kept very 

 clean. After fifteen days or longer about forty per cent, of the ants recov- 



34 



Left Antenna of Stenamma 

 fulvum piceum. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Strips of paper or of wood-shavings laid over the trail. When the 

 ant had well established her trail across the paper or shaving I could 

 sometimes in her absence change it, replacing it exactly by a new 

 one of the same color and material, and I have gradually increased 

 its width from five millimeters to fifteen, or from one to three times 

 her length, without causing the slightest distraction of the ant from 

 her steady journeys to and fro over it." This proves that the ant 

 does not smell her way at every point, and that familiarity with 

 certain objects under her feet is gradually acquired. A dissimilar 

 object, or an old object in a different place, never failed to distract 

 the ant. The frequent placing of new objects upon her path, or 

 repeated interruptions of her vvork, always caused her to change 

 her route or to abandon her work. 



]\rany ants, where records were kept, gained speed in the carry- 

 ing in of pupje, the number of journeys accomplished during an 

 hour increasing always with experience of the runs, unless special 

 hindrances occurred. If there be no greater stimulus in the greater 

 amount of scent laid down, the gain in speed must arise from 

 added familiarity with the road. 



I occasioned one of my colonies to move from a Lubbock nest to 

 its annex over a bridge eight inches long, once or twice a day 

 during ten days, and the colony gradually reduced the time 

 required for a complete change of loca'ion from over an hour to 

 twenty minutes. 



When an ant discovers a barrier across one of the runs in the 

 maze, she does not more than two or three times follow her trail 

 to the barrier, but altogether changes her route. In the change 

 she does not merely cut off the loop in her own path, but she 

 frequently takes a different direction. 



erefl from shock-effect and by their activities in()icated their readiness for use 

 in experiment. Before their recovery the ants were listless and al)nornially 

 irritable ; and they attacked with self-destructive violence any moving thing 

 that touched them. One antenna performs all the functions of a pair. In 

 examining hundreds of ants, I found many with a single antenna, or with 

 one antenna and the long proximal joint of the other, and these ants, in- 

 cluding queens so maimed, were living normal lives. But I never found in 

 its native nest any antennaless ant. The sense of taste is not lost Avith the 

 antennai. Ants kept without food for three days lapped honeyed cake with 

 evident relish immediately after they were deprived of their antennae. 

 Their sensitivity to light, heat and humidity also remains unimpaired. No 

 part of an antenna that had been clipped was regenerated during three sub- 

 sequent months that I kept the clipped ants under my observation. 



* My best results were in using moistened brown blotting paper, care being 

 taken that its edges across the path should be exactly even with the surface 

 of the earth covering the floor. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



The aptness of these ants to seek a new domicile whenever their 

 nest is disturbed is perhaps correlated with the necessity of main- 

 taining associations which give efficiency to a sensory memory. 



Three worker-ants, without kindred, have lived in one of my 

 Petri cells more than a year. They are perfectly at home in any 

 new similar cell to which I transfer them. This surely indicates 

 that they have become acquainted with their environment through 

 other senses than that of smell. 



Beside the scent whereby the ant lays her individual trail, every 

 Stenamma fulvum piceum has an odor manifest in all parts of her ani- 

 mate body, and discerned by herself and by other ants through the 

 eleventh segments of the antennae. 



It is improbable that the environment of the ants impart to 

 ih(nn iheir odor. I found beside an old stone fence a colony rear- 

 ing young under loose stones fifty yards apart. Workers taken 

 from the discovered extremes of this colonial manor affiliated per- 

 fectly. From a space no larger than a quart-pot I took thirteen 

 deiilated queens in September, and eleven more the following June. 

 Queens and workers of this colony met one another amicably after 

 a full year of separation, although the one had spent that time in 

 native soil, while the other had endured vicissitudes of travel, 

 living in a glass house, feeding on human confections, and drink- 

 ing water containing unlike mineral ingredients. I am also 

 acquainted with two colonies whose swarming exits are but two 

 yards apart, and these two colonies evince the intensest hostility to 

 one another. 



From among more than a hundred experiments that I have 

 madC; all yielding corroborative results in a study of the ant-odor, 

 I give but a few examples: 



The ant has an inherent odor. A callow five days old, that 

 had been isolated nine days before emergence from the pupa-stage, 

 was attacked and killed by the first ant it ever met, a callow of 

 another colony. 



Ants reared all the way from the larval stage without ant- 

 nurses attract or repel other ants. 



Ants were reared without ant-nurses, in sequestered groups, 

 from pup?e of the same colony. When these ants were twenty days 

 old the groups were united, and the ants at once affiliated. 



Young ants, reared in an alien group, were returned to their 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



blood-relations. They were repeatedly dragged away from the 

 nursery and were kept on probation until their personal odor was 

 ascertained, and were within a day received into full association 

 with their kindred. 



A queen of colony D with four workers that she had reared 

 from larvse of the C colony, together reared three callows from 

 pupae of the E colony. When the callows were twenty days old, 

 I put them in a Petri cell with adults of the E colony. The 

 callows attacked the adults as with intent to kill, but they met 

 with great toleration, and within a day all the inmates of the cell 

 were living together in unity. In every case where callows were 

 returned from among aliens to their own stock, the action of the 

 adults bore a strange similitude to patient and forbearing discipline 

 directed toward the reclamation of Avayward offspring. 



In a nest containing a queen and workers of colony C, I put a 

 few young ants that had been reared in another section of the 

 C colony from pupse of the E colony. The young ants showed no 

 fear of their new host, and were received with but slight sign of 

 suspicion. They were treated as are alien ants smeared with ihe 

 juices of kindred.^ But the superficial gloss did not long deceive, 

 and at the end of the second day the young ants had all been killed 

 and dismembered. Incorporation into one section of a colony 

 never gave permanent safety in another section of the same 

 colony that I had divided. 



Workers of colony D alone reared four callows from pupse of 

 colony C. I segregated these callows and introduced to their cell 

 four adults from another section of colony C. The adults imme- 

 diately attacked the callows, indicating that they were overlaid 

 with the odor of the workers that had fostered them; but the 

 inherent odor of the callows was also influential, for none were 

 killed, and the next day all the eight ants were clustered serenely 

 in one group. 



The odor is inherited through the queen. Five queens of the C 

 colony, each sequestered with a few of her workers, reared from 

 her own eggs several young ants. I am uncertain whether the 

 five kings associated with these queens were of different colonies. 

 The issue of any one queen would live in amity with the issue of 



• " A Study of an Ant," A. M. Fielde, Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, September, 1901. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



any other one of these queens, and all of the young ants would 

 congregate around any one of the sister-queens. 



Queens of the same colony have the same odor. Two queens, 

 each having a similar mixed family made up of her own and a 

 different stock, were interchanged with no disturbance of the 

 domestic life in either nest. 



Isolated queens of colony D reared each a few workers from 

 pupa3 of the C colony. The workers so reared w'ould live amica- 

 bly with any sister of the queen that reared them and also with 

 one another, 



A colony C queen and her issue reared two ants from pupje of 

 the E colony. When the two ants were a month old they were 

 removed from the fostering family and were introduced into a cell 

 containing a queen and adult workers of the C colony all deprived 

 of the smell-sense. The young ants at once snuggled the queen 

 and affiliated with the adults. They manifestly found in this 

 sister-queen and her workers the exact odor to which they were 

 accustomed. 



I took two queens of the C colony and segregated each with 

 pupie of the E colony. After the pupte had become ants fifteen 

 days old, an exchange of queens caused no demonstration of sur- 

 prise or of hostility. 



The inherent odor of the queens and that of the ivorkers in the 

 same colony is of like quality, though the odor of a queen is prob- 

 ably stronger than that of a worker. 



The behavior of kings in the nests proves them to be unable to 

 distinguish between queens and large workers. 



Workers removed from the C colony and segregated when eight 

 days old received amicably, after nine months of separation, the 

 two sister-queens in whose nests they had spent the first few days 

 of active life. Unless their own odor was similar to that of these 

 queens they must have had a personal memory of them. These 

 workers rejected queens of another colony. 



I isolated queens of the C colony and caused each to rear four 

 callows from pupre of the E colony. When the callows were six- 

 teen days old I introduced into every queen's cell two colony C 

 adults deprived of smell-sense. These adults were all received 

 amiably by the callows, indicating that they had the same sort of 

 odor as had the queen . 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Ants hatched and reared to the age of twenty days with no 

 association with any other ant received and affiliated with a queen 

 of their lineage, though with some tentative nabbing. 



Into a cell containing eight workers, of which equal numbers 

 had been together reared from pupie of two colonies, C and E, I 

 introduced a C colony queen deprived of smell-sense. She was 

 dragged away from the larvse pile, but was not injured, and in six 

 hours she was a fully accepted member of the mixed group. 



Probably the odor discerned by the ants is something different 

 from any discovered by human nostrils. 



The odor ju'eferred by the individual ant is determined by associa- 

 tion, naturally during the first few days of its active life. Cal- 

 lows no more than three days old, having spent these days with a 

 queen alone, with workers alone, or with both queen and workers, 

 will thereafter withdraw from or fight any queen or worker belong- 

 ing to any colony other than their own ancestral one, or those 

 represented in their earliest nurses. 



Pupre of the E colony were isolated the last thirteen days of 

 their pupa-stage, and their first meeting with any ant was when 

 they were two days old, and was with a queen of the colony. 

 Within an hour the queen and the callows had perfectly affiliated. 

 This queen had not been deprived of smell-sense; but during the 

 long isolation of the pupa3, the E colony odor that earlier overlaid 

 them had doubtless been dissipated, and they therefore presented 

 to her nothing stronger than their own inherent odor as callows. 

 Young callows from pupoe that have been isolated during the 

 whole or nearly the whole pupa-period are safe in any colony. The 

 immediate affiliation of these callows with an alien queen is the 

 point to be here observed. 



I sequestered pupa3 from colony C and isolated the emerging 

 unlicked callows. When these uunursed callows were two days 

 old I put them into a Petri cell with a colony E queen and workers 

 deprived of the smell-sense. The callows made no attack on the 

 alien adults, but congregated beside the queen or workers as ami- 

 cably as if all were of their own lineage. But callows likewise 

 sequestered, isolated and reared to five days old with no association 

 w^ith other ants, could not be induced to affiliate with aliens. They 

 established for themselves a criterion of correct odor, and withdrew 

 from or seized any ant varying from their standard. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



Queens and workers will usually live peaceably with auy ant 

 that they have reared from the pupa, and they may be caused to 

 rear successive broods of unlike lineage, or to rear at one time a 

 brood from eggs, larvte or pupse of div^erse stock. But both queens 

 and workers appear to be less at ease and to filiate less closely 

 with such associates than with those of their own line, unless they 

 greatly outnumber the introduced members of their group. If 

 pupse of alien stock are given to them in large numbers, shortly 

 before the pupte become callows, many of the callows are immedi- 

 ately killed. 1 segregated three groups, each consisting of a colony 

 C queen and seven adult workers, and gave to each group eight 

 pupse from colony E. In two of these groujDS the pupte all became 

 callows within four days and all were killed. In the third group 

 the pupse were younger, none became active before the seventh day 

 after being introduced, and five were permitted to live. These 

 five callows had doubtless, during their longer residence in the 

 group fostering them, been overlaid with the odor of the C colony, 

 and therefore when they became active they bore an odor inofien- 

 sive to their adult companions. They were doubtless smeared 

 with the odor of their hosts. 



I have repeatedly seen a queen, with numerous workers of alien 

 stock, flee from the group of ants that I had induced her to rear 

 in her own nest. She had been unable to lick so many pupse into 

 her own likeness. 



Ants remember, or are for some time positively chemotropic to, 

 the odor to which they were earliest accustomed. An isolated queen 

 of the D colony first reared four workers from larvse of the C 

 colony, and later on this mixed group reared three callows from 

 pupse of the E colony. When these callows were fifteen days old 

 I removed them to the E colony, where they were happily domes- 

 ticated five days. I then sequestered them in a Petri cell, and 

 found that they instantly affiliated with either the D colony queen 

 or the C colony workers that had earliest fostered them. They also 

 affiliated with C colony adults deprived of the smell-sense. 



Two queens of the C colony separately reared eight callows from 

 pupse of the E colony. When the callows were from eight to fifteen 

 days old, I put the two queens into one Petri cell and the eight 

 callows into another, and kept the C and E ants thus apart for 

 thirty days. I then reunited the queens and the young ants and 

 thev again filiated, with no sign of distrust or aversicm. 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



An artificially mixed group, now in my possession, was created 

 partially by design and partially by incident, and it curiously 

 illustrates my theme. As mentioned by Dr. W. ^I. Wheeler,''^ 

 Stenamma fulvum piceum sometimes feed their larvae upon pieces of 

 the pupre of Cremastorj aster Uneolata. Desiring to know whether 

 these ants would, when without larvre, themselves devour ihe 

 Cremastogaster pupse, I gave a goodly number of such puppe to 

 each of several groups of Stenaramas living in Petri cells. In 

 every group of Stenammas some portion of the Cremastogaster pupse 

 was adopted and taken care of, at least during several days. In 

 one group only, three of the Cremastogasters were brought to the 

 active stage, and continued to live with the Stenammas and to share 

 their labor of rearing a single introduced male pupa. Probably 

 these three Cremastogaster pup?e were so long in the care of the 

 Stenammas that they were overlaid or smeared with the Stenamma 

 odor before they became animate, and that their inherent odor was 

 therefore obscured. Their own standard of congenial odor would, 

 by earliest impression, be that of the Stenamma group. These 

 Stenammas, which were of the C colony, had previously reared 

 four workers from pupse of the E colony, and I had removed these 

 workers from their cell before the Cremastogaster pupie therein had 

 become active. The four workers had meantime been segregated 

 in another cell. When the Cremastogasters were about twelve 

 days old, I returned the E Stenammas, after an absence of twenty 

 days, to the C Stenamma cell. They were cordially received by, 

 and at once filiated with, their foster C queen and workers, and 

 they made no attack on the previously unknown Cremastogasters. 

 But the little Cremastogasters attacked them frequently, until, in the 

 course of a day or two, experience had shown them the futility of 

 attempts on the life of newcomers so much stronger than them- 

 selves. Cremastogaster Uneolata introduced from outside were killed 

 under attacks from all the ants in this mixed group. 



That there is a relationship between the inherent odor of the an^ 

 and its color, which gradually deepens with age, and that the odor 

 of the queen is stronger than is that of her workers, is shown by 

 the following experiment. I brought a colony from the woods, 

 placed it in its native earth upon a Lubbock nest, and sequestered 



*"" Habits of Ponera and Stigmatorama,'' Biological Bulletin, Vol. 2, 

 No. 2. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



many of its pupse. I then segregated all callows that appeared 

 on the same day among the pupre, and in my experiment used 

 none that had been nursed bv any ant during the last three days 

 of the pupa-stage, or that had ever met any ant other than those of 

 her own age and lineage. When the callows were from sixteen 

 to twenty days old, I introduced into a Petri cell containing several 

 of the segregated callows single ants from among their blood- 

 relations in the Lubbock nest. Ants of about their own age were 

 always received with little attention and no nabbing; older workers 

 with considerable attention and occasional nabbing; and very old 

 workers or queens were attacked and pulled about by as many as 

 three or four callows at once. The amount of excitement produced 

 by the newcomer, and the number of attacks made upon her 

 person, bore a direct ratio to the depth of her color. When an 

 old worker had first been introduced and domiciled, the introduc- 

 tion of a second adult caused little excitement ; but that of a queen 

 called forth all the usual demonstrations of interest or distrust. 

 If a queen was first introduced and domesticated, then the intro- 

 duction of an old worker was an unimportant event. A second 

 queen or a second adult was always received with lesser attention. 

 I therefore think that the ants discriminate not only in regard to 

 the quality of the odor presented, but also as to its intensity, and 

 that the queen presents the ancestral odor in a more concentrated 

 form than do her workers. None of these introduced ants 

 attacked the callows, and all callows affiliated with the introduced 

 ants within a day; but the fighting instinct of the callow is evi- 

 dently aroused, not only by ant-odors to which it is unaccustomed, 

 but by an intenser expression of its own inherent odor. If the 

 older ants bore an adventitious odor through association with aliens 

 reared in their nest, then the young ants would have borne the 

 same odor and would have offered the same reason for attack. 



With the purpose of ascertaining Avhether the odor of the ant 

 was perceptible to other ants when deposited upon inanimate objects, 

 I took a new unused maze and smeared the floor and walls of the 

 a and the n rung with the juices of kindred queens and workers, 

 and the in and b runs with the juices of aliens, leaving the c and 

 d runs unsmeared. This smearing did not manifestly influence the 

 ants in their choice of a route in carrying pupae from T to I. 



I then laid upon the floor of the a and n runs earth newly 




o38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



taken from their own E nest, and upon the m and b runs earth 

 newly taken from the nest of aliens, making the earth from the 

 two nests to meet in the middle of the passages, 1, 2, 3, 4. Into 

 c-d I put washed earth. Immediately after such distribution of 

 the earth I put many ants from the E nest into the maze at T 

 upon the pupte pile, and recorded the number of journeys made 

 through each run. Fully half the journeys were made upon the 

 earth from the alien nest. 



I then closed the a and the n runs and sent many ants of colony 

 C over the m and b runs. While the trails were yet fresh, I 

 removed the C ants and their nest, and gave the maze over to the 

 E colony. The E ants in no wise avoided the m and b runs that 

 had just been used by the C ants, but they traversed them as often 

 as they traversed the runs through which no aliens had passed. 

 Variations and repetitions of this experiment gave results always 

 similar. I therefore think that the odor of the ant is discernible 

 to other ants only when it is either perceived upon or is immedi- 

 ately disseminated from the living body of the ant. This \new is 

 sustained by the fact that alien pupre placed in the nest just before 

 they emerge from the pupa-stage are at first accepted by the ants, 

 and are nevertheless often killed as soon as they cease to be inert. 



I have found that the ant's power of perceiving this odor lies 

 in the eleventh segments of her antennre. The contact of these 

 segments with any part of the body of another ant is followed 

 by reflexes denoting either satisfaction or repugnance. When the 

 ant is deprived of these segments by a cut across the tenth seg- 

 ment, she no longer discriminates between friend and foe. De- 

 prived of these segments, marked ants of two or of five colonies 

 lived peaceably together or fought one another with absolute 

 impartiality. Forel discovered that ants of alien colonies ceased 

 from hostile demons1;ration when deprived of the antenn?e; but in 

 my experiments this effect is as complete when no more than the 

 two distal segments are removed. The removal of the twelfth 

 segment alone is not effective, and as the segments telescope each 

 into its proximal neighbor, the destruction of the tenth is necessary 

 for^the complete removal of the eleventh. 



A healthy ant, with or without antenna), will fight a dead ant, 

 kindred or alien, if the dead ant be made to simulate an attack 

 upon the live ant; and an ant will sometimes continue a battle 




1901.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



when all of its body except the head aud one pair of legs has 

 been clipped off. I have seen an ant, deprived of the smell-sense, 

 continue through eighteen hours its grip upon an adversary's 

 antenna. An auteunaless ant will fight with energy and endur- 

 ance, the difference between its battles and those of a whole ant 

 being in that it fights indiscriminately the ants of its own and 

 other colonies. In the complete ant the odor appears to modify, 

 control or determine the fighting reflex. 



In all cases of transfer from one kindred group to another there 

 are evidences that the whole ants discern differences in the indi- 

 viduality of their companions whether queens or workers. Every 

 newcomer is examined, sometimes from end to end, by touches of 

 the antennae; there is often much hesitating and tentative nabbing 

 of an ant that is ultimately received into full fellowship, and two 

 or three impetuous onsets often precede complete filiation. 



In determining through their actions the affinities and repulsions 

 of the ants, I have considered final relationships more important 

 than first behavior. 



The removal of the antennae does not destroy the odor of the 

 ants so maimed, for neither their enemies nor their kindred 

 change on this account their usual behavior toward them. But 

 the excision of these prominent organs reduces greatly their 

 liability to seizure. 



The commingled odors of all the ants in the nest constitutes what 

 Bethe calls the Neststoff, or what I shall call the aura of the nest. 

 It is diffused in air or ether from the animate occupants of the nest, 

 and it is discerned by the ant through the twelfth, the distal, segments 

 of her antennce. 



By this aura every ant recognizes its own abode and distinguishes 

 it from the abode of other colonies. The aura of the nest may be 

 superadded to, but does not extirpate, the individual scent nor the 

 inherent body odor. 



The creation of a new nest-aura is always possible through the 

 gradual admixture of different odors produced by and disseminated 

 from living ants reared from eggs, larvae or pupse of alien colonies. 



Any ant bearing the preponderating odor is apt to gain easy 

 admission to the nest. The countless variations observed in the 

 treatment of newcomers are due to the infinitely variable propor- 

 tions in the odors borne by the ants. If an ant permanently bears 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF fOct., 



an odor which is a component of the aura, she may be eventually 

 accepted as an associate. If, in a group of ants reared in equal 

 numbers from the pupa? of two colonic?, C and E, I introduce an 

 ant, deprived of smell-sense, from either the C or the E colony, 

 the fearless newcomer is received with excitement and alarm and 

 may be attacked with violence. But the attack is never fatal, 

 and the blood-relative of half the group is eventually permitted to 

 remain peacefully in the nest. ^Yheu a whole ant from either C 

 or E colony is introduced, the newcomer manifestly discerns an 

 unfamiliar aura and either flees or else fights to a fatal end. 



The sensitivity of the normal ant to the aura of an alien nest 

 causes her to flee from it when escape is possible, and to endeavor to 

 hide hei'self when she cannot escape. I have deprived many ants 

 of the distal segments of the antennae, and have found that on 

 complete recovery from shock-effect their behavior was to be dis- 

 tinguished from that of normal ants by the absence of an exhibition 

 of alarm when introduced into the nest of aliens. Such maimed 

 ants do not flee, nor do they endeavor to hide, nor do they hesitate 

 in close approach to a dense swarm of aliens. Their conduct when 

 introduced into the nests of other colonies is strikingly different 

 from that of the whole ant. Their action, whether in their own or 

 an alien nest, evinces unconsciousness of the aura that determines 

 the advance or retreat of the whole ant, or causes it, with uplifted 

 and waving anteunte, to pursue an object that is beyond its reach. 

 Callows reared from the third day of the pupa-stage with no asso- 

 ciation with other ants until the tenth day of active life, had then 

 established their owa aura, without the presence of a queen, and 

 manifested alarm at the introduction of aliens. 



If the subtile aura of the nest, imperceptible as it is to human 

 nostrils, is diffused by a vibration in the body of the living ant 

 which it envelops, the aura should be strongest where the greatest 

 number of ants have lougest lived. Its allurement in the air 

 or ether may be what sometimes causes an ant to return to an old 

 and empty habitation, and to carry back pupai that have already 

 beeii transported to a newly occupied nest. 



The excitement occasioned by the intrusion of an alien among 

 ants that are a few millimeters from the point at which the alien 

 passes, indicates that the aura borne by the introduced ant extends 

 at least a few millimeters from its body. The behavior of the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



resident ants shows that the aura pervades the air or the ether, and 

 gives intimation of the presence of the intruder without denoting 

 her exact location. 



The aura of an ant of the same colony appears often to deter- 

 mine the route of a companion not within touch of the antennre, 

 when burdens are being carried into the nest. 



The distance to which the nest-aura is diffused may depend upon 

 the number and quality of the living inmates. 



Before an ant is five days old it has all its reflexes established, and 

 ai:)pears to have sprung as from the head of Jove, full grown and 

 completely accoutred, into active existence. 



Callows that became such in the T corner of the maze straightway 

 found a way into the nest, and commenced the carrying in of the 

 inert young. 



Callows less than five days old, that had never seen a queen, 

 nor adults, nor earth, were transferred from their Petri cell to a 

 handful of their ancestral soil, and they immediately built a nest 

 with runs and recesses such as are made by experienced workers of 

 their kind. 



Prolonged captivity in a glass house does not diminish their 

 ability to use earth in nest-making. I transferred to the earth 

 on a Lubbock nest, when they were nine months old, some queen - 

 less ants that had always lived without earth in one of my artificial 

 nests, and gave them a few larvse and pupse. Within ten hours 

 they had made as perfect runs and recesses as any ever constructed 

 by their species, and had disposed the young in the same manner 

 as do their free congeners. 



The unremitting attention habitually given by the workers to 

 the young is hardly demanded by the necessities of the latter. I 

 segregated eggs, larvpe and pupre, and found that eggs untouched 

 during several days bring forth normal larvre; that with no atten- 

 tion from the ants the full-grown ld,rva may successfully become a 

 pupa; and that the whole pupa-stage may be safely passed with 

 no more tending than such occasional changes of position as will 

 prevent the growth of raovdd. Penicillium Grustacemn^^ grows to 

 ripeness, in either darkness or light, upon eggs, larvre or pupa?, if 

 left for a few days unattended in the humid atmosphere required by 



" The moulds here mentioned were identified for me by Dr. George T. 

 ISIoore, of Dartmouth College. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the ants, and its sprouting spores may be seen on their surfaces 

 under a magnification of about five hundred diameters. If the 

 spores are left undisturbed they cover the young with a delicate 

 dense white coat that becomes sage-green with the ripening of the 

 new spores. It appears j^robable that the ants find nuti'iment in 

 the new mycelium of the mould, from which they relieve the young 

 by licking them frequently and thorouglily. If the surfaces of 

 the ant-children be a kitchen-garden spontaneously supplying the 

 nurses with aliment, then these ants enjoy an economic indepen- 

 dence surpassed only liy that of an ideal creature that could lay 

 eggs sufficient for its own nourishment. 



This delicate mould does not grow upon the bodies of dead 

 ants, but is there replaced by Rhyzopus nigricans, with long and 

 spreading hyphse, and in this may lie the cause for the carrying off 

 and casting away of all ants that die or are kiUed in the nest. 



So long as the eighth and ninth segments of the antennce are unin- 

 jured, the ant may continue to lift and care for the eggs, larvce or 

 pupce, but after the removal of these segments she loses all interest in 

 the young and performs no further ivork in the nursery. I proved 

 this to be true in several CDlonies. In ray colony B, which had 

 been queenless during many months, the workers had been singu- 

 larly devoted to the larvse and pupse from their own eggs,^" and from 

 among these ants I selected several that never failed to lift a larva 

 when the cover of their Petri cell was taken away. Some of these 

 assiduous nurses took all usual precaution for the safety of their 

 young so long as the eighth segments of the antennre were unin- 

 jured, but none lacking the eighth segment ever gave heed to 

 nursery duties of any sort. From none of the other ants could I 

 secure any attention to the young after the excision of the ninth 

 segment. 



Marked ants of two hostile colonies, when clipped across the 

 tenth segment, associated freely and amiably with one another 

 during several days in the care of pupas belonging to one of the 

 two colonies. A whole queen resident in the small nest appeared 

 unable to tolerate the alien odor among the nurses, and often with- 

 drew from the ever-alluring pupio pile where they congregated. 

 When the callows appeared, the queen aggressively took her place 



'- One of these worker's-egg-larv£e, separately reared, was oue hundred 

 and forty days in the larval stage. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHIA. 543 



amoug the young, and drove the ahen nurses out from the nursery 

 to the food-room, where they remained until I removed them. 

 The queen's clipped workers continued to tend the young in the 

 manner of whole ants. 



On clipping the anteonre to the seventh segment, the middle of 

 the segmented portion below the elbow, the ants lose all com- 

 munity of interest. In one of m}'- large nests, '^ used as a hotel 

 ties invQ.lides, the ants never congregate, but stand separately and 

 sometimes almost equidistant throughout the three rooms. The 

 gregarious habit is probably a conjoint result of the reflexes from 

 the five distal segments. 



The instinct of following or huddling, common in young ani- 

 mals, is manifest in this ant during the first hours of its activities, 

 when it keeps close to any accessible queen or Avorker. 



The huddling instinct is apparently strong in its relation to ants 

 of the same or lesser age. I isolated 2:)upre during the whole pupa- 

 stage, thus freeing them, in their casting off of both the larval 

 and the pupal integument, from all except the inherent odor, and 

 I found that the callows huddled as soon as they were able to walk 

 toward one another. The isolation of such callow's for twelve 

 days or longer did not diminish their tendency to huddle with ants 

 of their own age or with younger ones of the same lineage. But 

 from the twelfth to the twentieth day of isolation there was a 

 marked diminution of the disposition to follow the queen and to 

 huddle with adults. Dr. Edward Thorndike says" that " if 

 chicks do not have a chance to follow a hen in the first ten or 

 twelve days they will not go near one if they have a chance." I 

 have found no limit to the age at which a worker will follow a 

 queen, but the attraction exercised by the queen is apparently due 

 solely to association. When she or her kind has not been known 

 during ant-infancy, her acquaintance is made with caution and 

 reserve, if not with signs of distrust or dislike. 



The ants appear to exhibit personal likings, aversions, affinities 

 and antipathies. They seem to make and to keep individual 

 acquaintances. They exhibit true social proclivities, and they 

 manifest a possibility of surmounting race prejudices. Living 

 mainly in darkness, they receive impressions through the antennae 



1^ "Portable Ant-Nests," Biological Bulletin, Vol. 2, No. 2. 

 " "The Human Nature Club," p. 26, Chautauqua Press, 1901. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



rather than through the eyes, and they suggest the idea that the 

 sense of smell may be as efficient as that of sight in ai)i)ropriately 

 connecting a creature with its environment. 



I have observed that these ants, like the Termites, are able to 

 carry water for domestic uses. They probably lap the water into 

 the pouch above the lower lip and eject it at its destination. A hun- 

 dred or two of ants that I brought in and left in a heap of dry 

 earth upon a Lubbock nest, during the ensuing uighi took water 

 from the surrounding moat, moistened a full pint of the earth, built 

 therein a proper nest, and were busy depositing their larvae in its 

 recesses when I saw them on the follo\ving morning. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



NEW LAND MOLLUSKS OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Eulota (Plectotropis) shikokuensis n- sp. 



Shell openly umbilicate. rather thin, reddish-brown, low-conic 

 above, convex beneath, irregularly striate, and covered with short, 

 triangular cuticular scales, a series of longer ones along the per- 

 iphery. Whorls 5|^ to 6, slightly convex, the last carinated at the 

 periphery, more or less deflexed in front. Aperture very oblique, 

 subcircular, the peristome narrowly reflesed, dilated at the colu- 

 mella, the ends approaching. 



Alt. 8, diam. 14 mm. 



Alt. 7, diam. 12^ mm. 



Yoshida, Prov. lyo. Type No. 81885, Coll. A. K S. P., from 

 No. 694 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Similar in contour to trochula, of Tsu-shima. The cuticular 

 scales are less densely crowded than in scepasma. 



Eulota mercatoria var. daemonorum nov. 



Shell solid, with well-elevated spire and rounded periphery, 

 slightly plicatulate above, as in mercaforla, from which it differs in 

 the straighter, slightly bent forward, basal lip, with an impressed 

 line or two behind it, as in E. cuHginosa. 



Alt. 27, diam. 36 mm. ; whorls Qj^. 



Alt. 20^, diam. 29 mm. ; whorls 5f . 



Kikai, Osumi (Mr. Y. Ilirase, No. 683 ). It occurs fossil with 

 a form of Eulota liihuana, a large form of E. sieholdiana, 

 Cyclophorus turgidus, and fragments of a Clausilla, in a calcareous 

 deposit consisting largely of foramiuifera. 



Eulota (Plectotropis) omiensis n. sp. 



Shell small, openly umbilicate, low-conic above, convex beneath, 

 carinate at the periphery, brown. Surface of the last whorl 

 shaggy with triangular cuticular scales, large for so small a shell, 

 and longer at the periphery. Whorls 4^, convex, those of the 

 spire roughly striate, the last slightly and slowly descending in 

 85 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



front. Aperture oblique, subcircular, the parietal wall excising 

 about one-fourth of the circle. Peristome thin, narrowly ex- 

 panded throughout, more dilated at the columellar insertion. 



Alt. 3|-, diam. 7^ mm. 



Itanami, Orai (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 752). 



Much like E. lepidophora var. temiis Gude, but with fewer 

 whorls and more shaggy, large-scaled cuticle. 



Ganesella fausta n. sp. 



Shell resembling G. pagodula Ehrm. in contour; umbilicate, 

 very glossy, light chestnvit colored. Sculpture of faint growth- 

 lines and excessively fine, subobsolete spiral strise. Spire high, 

 convexly conic. Whorls 5^, convex, the last rounded at the 

 periphery, very slightly descending in front, a trifle constricted 

 behind the lip. Base convex, impressed in the middle. Aperture 

 less oblique than in G. pagodula, rounded, the parietal wall excis- 

 ing slightly less than a third of the circle ; peristome narrowly 

 expanded, the outer lip hardly reflexed, columellar margin dilated 

 above, half covering the umbilicus. Columella subvertical above. 



Alt. 13|, diam. 12| mm. 



Mikuriya, Suruga (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 734). 



This form differs from G. pagodula in its smaller size, fewer 

 whorls, dark color and glossy surface, the hollow axis and different 

 form of the columella. I do not think it directly related to G. 

 pagodula. The two species are apparently independent offshoota 

 from the G. japonica stock. 



Ganesella Adelinae n. sp. 



Shell pyramidal, narrowly umbilicate, thin, pale yellow or rose- 

 whitish, with three equidistant blackish chestnut bands ; the first 

 above the middle of the upper surface of the last whorl, the 

 second at the periphery, the space between these two varying from 

 light red-brown to almost as dark as the bauds themselves, which 

 are then confluent; the third band is wider, in the middle of the 

 basal surface; the interior of the umbilicus also dark. Surface 

 rather glossy but with a dull " bloom" as in some forms of G. 

 Largilliertl, having slight wrinkles of growth and fine, subobso- 

 lete, spiral strire. Spire straightly conic, the apex obtuse, whorls 

 6 to 6^, slightly convex, the last angular at the periphery, mod- 

 erately convex beneath, but slightly descending in front. Aper- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



ture wide, semicircular, banded within, somewhat oblique; peris- 

 tome thin, narrowly expanded throughout, white-edged, the 

 columellar margin dilated, purple-black, partially covering the 

 umbilicus. 



Alt. 26^, diam. 25 mm. 



Alt. 24, diam. 221-23^ mm. 



Oshima (Amani-Oshima), Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 352. 



This charming species is closely related to G. Largillierti of 

 Okinawa, and has also some superficial resemblance ^ to Eulota 

 •calUzona var. Dixoni. It differs from the former in the larger 

 umbilicus and the pyramidal rather than turbinate contour. 



A specimen I dissected has the exceedingly long' kidney and 

 characteristic genitalia of Ganesella. As its close relationship to 

 Largillierti is obvious, that species can no longer be placed in 

 Eulota, as some authors have done, 

 Trishoplita hilgendorfi var. tenuis nov. 



Closely resembling T. hilgendorfi (Kob. ), this'^form differs in 

 being thinner with perceptibly larger aperture, and the surface is 

 seen under a lens to be finely decussate, the fine growth-wrinkles 

 being cut into spiral series of long granules. Pale corneous- 

 brown, with inconspicuous darker streaks. 



Alt. 9|^, diam. 14-15 mm. 



Ibuki, Omi (xMr. Y. Hirase, No. 310c). 



Trishoplita coUinsoni var. okinoshimae nov. 



Similar to var. casta, but not papillose, distinctly decussate, 

 especially beneath, with a reddish-chestnut band at the slightly 

 angular periphery. Whorls 5| to 6. 



Alt. 10|, diam. 15 mm. 



Alt. 9, diam. 13 J mm. 



Okinoshima, Tosa. Type No. 81,884, Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 691 of Mr. Hirase' s collection. 

 Kaliella praealta n. sp. 



Shell perforate, pyramidal, pale brown, the surface glossy and 

 smooth. Spire very high, straightly conic, the apex obtuse, 

 whorls 9, convex, the last angular at the periphery, convex 

 beneath. Aperture semicircular, the lip thin as usual, columella 

 vertical, triangularly dilated above. 



Alt. 4, diam, 2|- mm. 



Ryozen, Omi (Mr. Y. Hirase, No, 743), 




548 PKOCEKDI>fGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



This species is distinguished among the crowd of Japanese 

 Kaliellas by its high, pyramidal contour and numerous whorls. 

 In outline it resembles Buliminopsis hirrita (Gude). It has not the 

 minute vertical striation of most species of the genus. 



Kaliella kyotoensis n. sp. 



Shell imperforate, obtusely pyramidal, the apex obtuse ; thin, 

 yellowish brown, smooth but rather dull, more glossy beneath. 

 Whorls 6, very convex, the last rounded at the periphery and 

 beneath, impressed around the axis. Aperture lunate, chiefly 

 basal; peristome thin and acute, abruptly reflexed over the umbili- 

 cal perforation. 



Alt. 3, diam. 3 mm. 



Kyoto (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Much larger than nanodes, pagodii/oides or harimensis, and well 

 rounded at the periphery. 



Kaliella modesta n. sp. 



Shell minutely perforate, similar to K. pagoduloide.s, but less 

 elevated and larger. Whorls 4f , very convex, the last rounded 

 at the periphery, impressed in the centre beneath. Sculpture of 

 excessively fine, close, subobsolete strife, the base most minutely 

 striate spirally. Aperture lunate. 



Alt. 2.4, diam. 2.7 mm. 



Oshima, Prov. Higo (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Kaliella nahaensis (Gude). 



Naha (or Kafa), in southern Okinawa, on the west side. A 

 new variety of this species is represented by specimens sent by Mr. 

 Hirase from Kunchan, the northern province of Okinawa. It 

 differs from nahaensis in being slightly smaller, with decidedly 

 sharper striation; and may be called var. kunchana. 



Alycaeus satsumana n. sp. 



Shell with the general form of A. melano])oma, red-brown 

 becoming pale-brown beneath. AVhorls 3-J, the first smooth and 

 projecting nipple-like, the next spirally striate, the last 1^ whorls 

 costulate, the riblets narrow, rather widely spaced and accompanied 

 by spiral stria? on the first half of the last whorl, which then be- 

 comes more swollen and sculptured with crowded riblets. At the 

 end of the swollen portion the sutural process is given off. This is 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



rather long and lies backward in the suture; the whorl is then 

 rather strongly constricted and almost smooth, the riblets reappear- 

 ing behind the lip. Aperture oblique, circular, peristome narrowly 

 reflexed and doubled. Operculum thin, reddish-corneous, smooth 

 externally. 



Alt. 2.3, diam. 3.7 mm. 



Kagoshima, Satsuma, Kiusiu (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 704), 

 The " neck" is more constricted than in A. melanojyoma, and 

 the operculum is thin. It differs in sculpture from the other 

 Japanese species of Alycceus, which are all a good deal alike in 

 form. 



Cyclophorus turgidus var. angulatus nov. 



Substance of the shell roseate ; thick and strong, distinctly angu- 

 lar or carinated at the periphery ; interior orange or orange-red. 

 Whorls 5. 



Alt. 23|, diam. 29 mm. 



Alt. 16, diam. 20 mm. 



Loo Choo (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 713). ^ 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



A QUICK METHOD OF TESTING FOR GOLD. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



The volcanic rocks of the crater in which the towns of Cripple 

 Creek and Victor, Colo., are built, according to Mr. Moore, the 

 chief mining engineer of the district, all contain gold. The rock 

 mined, however, is thrown on the dump and many thousands of 

 tons, not worked for the gold at j^resent, are piled up outside the 

 mines. 



The vein gold, in the form of sylvanite, telluride, and prob- 

 ably calaverite, is separated by hand from the gangue or rock and 

 sent to the smelters for reduction. A specimen was secured from 

 a depth of about 800 feet below the surface. Its general appear- 

 ance was not very promising, inasmuch as the minerals were so 

 finely divided tliat a mechanical separation for a test seemed ta 

 involve a waste of time. Separation, melting and cupellation are 

 practiced extensively and are well known. A quicker and simpler 

 method for at least a qualitative determination of the gold in the 

 rock can, 1 think, be devised. Since these and other gold com- 

 pounds are very fusible, it seemed probable that the small particles 

 of the gold salts may be fused together before the blowpipe in the 

 rock, and by shaking and driving with the pointed flame larger 

 globules may be formed. This proves to be the case. During 

 the process the tellurium and selenium, if present along with 

 other volatile bodies, are roasted, i. e., oxydized and expelled. The 

 flame is bluish green. After the volatile substances are thus 

 removed dark-colored globules project upward on the surface of 

 the rock-splinter, which was about one inch long and a quarter of 

 an inch thick. To clean these under the flame I covered the whole 

 surface with cyanide of potassium, a reducing fire finishing this 

 part of the work. 



The rock-splinter was disintegrated; it broke easily and the 

 globules of dark metal could be picked up with the pointed pin- 

 cette or separated with a knife. These were put into the agate 

 mortar and pressed and rubbed with the pistil to thin plates. A 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlIIl.A DELl'llIA. 551 



little nitric acid was added and rubbed, then poured into a capsule; 

 a second dose of nitric acid was given and worked as before. The 

 gold appeared now, after washiug with water, in its bright yellow 

 color. The acid solution, after settling, poured cleanly into a test- 

 tube, gave with a few drops of hydrochloric acid the well-known 

 white precipitate of chloride of silver soluble in ammonia. 



The gold was, as may be expected, in very thin plates, and, 

 although not absolutely pure, showed the two distinct colors of the 

 •metal — the fine yellow by reflected light, and the violet color 

 when a ray of ordinary light passed through it and was observed 

 under the microscope by sunlight. By artificial light the color is 

 modified to a greenish tint. The test of a gold-containing mineral 

 in a rock, as described above, can be made within ten minutes. 

 The microscopic part of the test is, of course, unnecessary, as the 

 gold can be seen as readily without it after the treatment with 

 nitric acid. 



The ease and quickness of this blowpipe process^^and the little 

 preparation required may recommend it to prospectors for gold 

 ore, who, we are well aware, often overlook gold-containing min- 

 erals in the absence of an easy and simple test. The above-described 

 method, if followed, may be found helpful, inasmuch as no new 

 instrument or apparatus is required. 



The finely and sparsely distributed gold compounds in the Crip- 

 ple Creek volcanic rock have a similarity in appearance to com- 

 mon pyrites. Iil volcanic rocks, therefore, wherein both minerals 

 may occur, the gold and iron compounds present cau only be deter- 

 mined by the application of the proper tests. 




552 proceedixgs of the academy of [nov,, 



November 5. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty -seven persons present, 



A paper entitled " An Ecological Sketch of the Flora of 

 Jamaica," by John W. Harshberger. was presented for publica- 

 tion. 



Fasciolaria gigantea, subsp. reevei. — Dr. H, A. Pilsbry exhib- 

 ited specimens from Little Sarasota Bay aud Clearwater Harbor, 

 Fla., the former collected by Mr. Henry Hemphill, the latter by 

 Dr. J. W. Velie, who in sending a sj)ecimen to the Academy had 

 directed attention to the peculiarities of the form. Dr. Pilshry 

 stated that the specimens are referable to the form described by 

 Philippi' as Faseiolarla reevei Jonas. That form has been lost sight 

 of by later observers. Those authors who have noticed it have con- 

 sidered it to be a synonym of F. jj?';'?i.cej3S, a species of the Panamic 

 zoological province, from which it differs in the gradual decrease in 

 prominence of the sculpture with age aud the smooth operculum. 



It seems to be a local subspecies of F. gigantea, differing from 

 that by its much smaller size, the obsolescence or absence of nodes 

 on the last whorl, the longer and narrower anterior portion, etc. 

 The shell reaches a length of 24 cm., and is covered with a dark 

 cuticle, blackish-chestnut on the last whorl, yellowish-chestnut on 

 the spire. Under this cuticle and in the mouth the shell is pale 

 salmon-pink. Fine lirie may usually be felt deep in the aperture, 

 but they are not colored as in F. prlnceps. 



November 12. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, iu the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



November 19. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " Some Arachnida from New Mexico," by 

 Nathan Banks, was presented for publication. 



f ' Abbildungen und Beschreibungen neuer oder icenig beknimter Con- 

 chylien, III, p. [121], Fasciolaria, PI. 3, fig. 2 (September, 1850). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



NoVEMBliR 26. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. , in the Chair, 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 



" Cockscomb Fasciation of Pineapples," by John W. Harsh- 

 berger. 



" Myctophum phengodes in the North Atlantic," by H. W. 

 Fowler. 



" New Land Mollusks of the Japanese Empire," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



The death of Thomas Meehan, Vice-President of the Academy, 

 on the 19th inst., having been announced, the following minute 

 was unanimously adopted : 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is 

 again called on to recoi'd its sense of loss in the death of one of its 

 oldest and most devoted associates. Since Mr. Meehan's election to 

 membership forty-one years ago he never neglected an opportunity 

 to manifest his interest in the society, and for much the greater part 

 of that period he gave freely of his time, means and best thought 

 for the increase of its prosperity. His special care for the welfare 

 of the Botanical Department was manifested with singular devo- 

 tion until physical exertion was no longer possible, and the Academy 

 is well aware that the present prosperous condition of the herba- 

 rium is mainly due to his intelligent efforts. 



While his extraordinary accuracy as an observer and his clear- 

 ness as a recorder of natural phenomena place a high value on his 

 scientific work, he was personally endeared to his fellow-members 

 by unfailing courtesy, integrity and generosity. Their regard 

 enables them to appreciate the more fully the loss sustained by his 

 wife and family, to whom they tender this assurance of their 

 heartfelt commiseration. 



John M. Macfarlane, D.Sc. , was requested to prepare a bio- 

 graphical notice of Mr. Meehan, to be read at a meeting of the 

 Academy and published in the Proceedings. 



Messrs. Roswell C. Williams, Jr., Henry C. Savage, WiUiam 

 B. Davis and S. Harbert Hamilton were elected members. 



T. D. A. Cockerell, of East Las Vegas, N. M., was elected a 

 correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




654 FROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.y 



AN ECOLOGICAL SKETCH OF THE FLOKA OF SANTO DOMINGO 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



The it-land of Santo Domingo (Hispaiiola of Columbus) is 

 politically divided into an eastern and a western portion. The 

 eastern section, by far the largest, comprises the Republic of 

 Santo Domingo, and the western area, the smallest, is dominated 

 by the blacks of the Haitian Republic. The island of Santo 

 Domingo is one of extreme fertility. Columbus, and travelers 

 since, speak in the highest terms of the rare beauty and natural 

 grandeur of the island, which has been called without exaggera- 

 tion " The Queen of the Antilles." 



Topography. 



Hispanola by nature is the geographic centre of the Greater 

 Antilles. Thomas Jefferys in 1760 said: " Its situation with 

 respect to the rest of the Antilles is the most advantageous imag- 

 inable, as it stands, you may say, in the centre of this great cluster 

 of islands, and looks as if intended by nature to give laws to 

 them. The other three great Antilles lie in such a manner as to 

 prove its superiority, and their own dependence; for it has three 

 points of land corresponding respectively to each island " (Puerto 

 Rico, Cuba, Jamaica). Santo Domingo excels Puerto Rico, Cuba 

 and Jamaica in altitude, diversity of configuration, picturesque 

 aspect and natural fertility. It is continental in its topographic 

 make-up, being the radiating centre of the great Antillean uplift. 

 The outline of Hispanola is the most irregular of all the Greater 

 Antilles, its periphery being nearly a thousand miles, its length 

 400 miles, and its breadth 160 miles. The great Gulf of Gonaives 

 is enclosed by the western peninsulas, and is an immense semicircu- 

 lar bay with a coast line of two hundred miles. Samana Bay on 

 the northeast, Barahona Bay on the south coast and ^lanzanilla 

 Bay on the north are also conspicuous indentations. Approached 

 from the ocean, the island presents a huge mass of mountains 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA. 55/) 



risiug precipitously from the sea, extendiDg in all directions and 

 apparently jumbled up in hopeless confusion. The mountains 

 consist of lofty forest-covered peaks, resembling the Alleghenies, 

 the Alps or the Pyrenees, but with this difference, that they are 

 always without snow. There are four ranges of mountains which 

 run in a general east-and-west d'rection, as follows: The northern 

 fragment is the Monte Cristi Range; the main orographic section, 

 the Sierra Cibao, consists of lofty mountains, with the third range 

 as an outlier toward the southwest, and the fourth mass is formed 

 by the tall mountains of the southwestern peninsula. Between 

 these ranges lie extensive fertile valleys, threaded by streams of 

 limpid water. Many of these streams debouch on the plains which 

 fringe the sea-coast, and irrigate those coastal areas which are 

 more or less arid in condition, beiug shut off from the prevailing 

 winds and rains by lofty mountain summits. There are many 

 central valley plains in the island. The largest of these, lying 

 between the Monte Cristi Range and the Coi'dillera Cibao, extends 

 from the sea at the Haitian border to Samana Bay, its eastern 

 prolongation. The western portion, watered by the Yaqui, is an 

 arid region covered by chaparral, where arborescent opuntias and 

 cereuses abound. The windward area, or eastern division, watered 

 by the Yuna, is covered by beautiful deciduous plants. South of 

 the Cibao Range is the extensive plain of Seylo, covered in part by 

 open prairie and forest. The terraced Caribbean coast supports a 

 belt of forest averaging twelve miles in width. The tension line 

 between coastal forest and inland prairie is parklike in aspect, 

 carpeted by green grass and dotted by clumps of trees. At Azua,^ 

 the whole neighborhood is barren, dry and thorny. The only 

 lakes are salt, occupying the east-and-west depression which sep- 

 arates the southern peninsula of Haiti from the main portion of 

 the island. This basin, formerly an oceanic inlet, is said to be 

 inhabited still by sharks, porpoises and even crocodiles. 



The coutiguration of the Haitian division of the island appears 

 an agglomeration of mountains, hills and valleys most irregular in 

 form. There are precipices, deep hollows, vales apparently with- 

 out outlet, but with water glistening below. The whole of the 

 Republic is more or less mountainous. The La Haute Mountains 

 are most noted and they form a continuation of the great axial 

 sierra of the island. There are many beautiful slopes and valleys. 




556 J'ltOCKEDINGS Ol' THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Those of Port-au-Priuce, Gonaives. Artibouite, Arcahaie. Port 

 Margot, Leogane, Aux Cayes being the most famous. Three 

 large islands are attached to the Haitian coast — Tortuga on the north, 

 Gonave on the west are noted for their mahogany trees; L'lle-a- 

 Vache on the south coast lies m a sound of the same name. 



Climate. 



The dry season covers the period of the year from October to 

 April, when the temperature is some 10° lower thau during the 

 so-called rainy season, which lasts from April to October, when 

 rains fall, as a rule, late in the afternoons or evenings. In gen- 

 eral, the climate of the island of Santo Domingo is most diversi- 

 fied, presenting wide extremes of moisture, aridity and tem- 

 perature. At the sea-level, in sheltered places, the heat is intense, 

 but as one ascends the mountains of the interior the heat of 

 the seaboard becomes moderated. At 1,600 feet, European and 

 American travelers complain of cold at night, although there the 

 mercury never falls below 45°, Rain is almost lacking on the 

 lower slopes of sheltered mountains, but above 2,000 feet rains and 

 dews are copious. The nights are from 10° to 20° cooler than the 

 days. 



Ecology. 



The information for the following ecologic sketch was obtained 

 from three sources: (1) The observations of the Avriter made 

 upon the flora of Haiti during July, 1901, when he visited the 

 island, stopping at four ports, viz.. Cape Haitien, Port-au-Prince, 

 Aux Cayes and Jacmel; (2) The information gleaned by conversa- 

 tion with inhabitants of the island familiar with its vegetation ; 

 (3) A cai'cful perusal of Tippenhauer's book, Die Insel Haiti. 

 It is impossible to give a detailed sketch of the phytogeography 

 of the island of Ilispaiiola. It seems, therefore, best to assemble 

 the species in an ecologic manner as a basis for a future work 

 upon this rich and most luxuriant insular vegetation. 



Ilijdropluites. — Living along shore in the bays and shallow estua- 

 ries is found an abundant mangrove vegetation. In Port-au-Prince 

 Bay, at Cape Haitien, at Aux Cayes, are found extensive man- 

 grove swamps and islands. The three trees concerned in forming 

 the mangrove association are Rhizophora mangle L. , Avicennia 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF TfllLADELPHIA. 557 



officinalis L. and Laguncularla racemosa Gaertn. Pistia stratiotes 

 L. floats iu the fresh- water streams of the island, or loosely 

 attached to the soil along their banks. Sagittaria lancifolia L. 

 may also be classed as a hydrophyte. 



Mesophytes. — The plants composing the vegetation of a tropical 

 forest are in superimposed layers, or stories. The different levels 

 at which tropical plants grow is in direct response to the environ- 

 mental conditions of light and moisture. These storied layers 

 may be termed vegetal strata. It may be staled, iu this con- 

 nection, as axiomatic, that in a tropical forest, when one ascends 

 from the ground to the crowu of the dominant forest trees, as the 

 light increases the moisture content ot the air decreases. On the 

 ground in the forest, mosses, ferns and fungi abouud in the deep 

 shadow and growing in the mould arising from fallen leaves and 

 rotting Avood. In the forests, on the trees, ferns, aroids and orchids 

 are found, while serpent-like lianes clamber from limb to limb 

 and from tree to tree, uutil they reach abundant light in the 

 crowns of the trees above. Epiphytes and parasites, more or less 

 xerophytic in habit, are found iu the tops of the dominant species 

 of trees. 



Forest Vegetation. — The richness of the tropical flora and the 

 lush growth of the vegetation iu general is most marked in those 

 situations that are exposed to the copious rains that fall during the 

 summer months. The drenching rainfall, the richness of the soil 

 in the mountain valleys and coastal plains are such as to encour- 

 age to the highest degree a luxuriant fern and arboreal vegetation. 

 Along the banks of streams occur Bamhusa vulgaris Schrad. , 

 Heliconia sp. , Amomuni sp., and of the palms, Oreodoxa oleracea 

 Mart., Thrinax argentea Lodd, 2\ ^xf/'ivy/ora Sw., Acroeomia 

 sclerocarpa Mart., Euterpe oleracea Engelm. 



The component vegetation of damp Avoods consists of Musa 

 sapientiim L. , 31. coecinea Andr., Heliconia bihai L., H. psitta- 

 corum L., Arundo occidentalis Sieber, Canna edulis Ker-Gawl, 

 Sivietenia mahagoni Jacq., Hmnatoxylon carapecJiianum L., Madura 

 tinctoria D. Don., Cedrela odorata L., Artocarpus incisa L., 

 Chrysophyllum cainito L , Catalpa longisshna Sims, Sloanea dentata 

 L., Swartzia tomentosa D.C., Ilex obcordaia Sw., Ceerojjia pieltata 

 L., and other arborescent species. The larger trees are draped 

 by lianes of the following species: Passiflora caerulea L., P. lauri- 




o58 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Jolia L., p. perfoUata L., Aristolochla arborescens L. , Entada 

 scandens Benth., Philodendron laceriim Schott. and Vitis carihosa 

 D.C. 



Savanna Vegetation. — The green covering of the open park- 

 like areas, or savannas, consists of grasses and other herbaceous 

 plants. The grasses are of most interest from an economic stand- 

 point and should be mentioned first. The following seem to be 

 the chief components of the grassy stretches of savanna land: 

 Paspalum platycaule Poir, P. distichum Linn., P. virgatum Linn., 

 P. panieulatum Linn., Chloris ciliata S\v., C. crudata Sw., C. 

 barbata Sw., Panicum colomim Linn., P. maximum Jacq. , P. 

 hirsiduvi Sw., Andrcpogon saccharoides Sw., A. gracilis Spreng.^ 

 A. fastigiatus Sw. , A. bicornis L. , A. leucostachys H. B. and K., 

 Eragrostis ciliata, with herbaceous plants, Desmodium axillare 

 D, C. and Boerhaavia erecta Linn. 



Epiphytes. — The large trees, such as the figs, the mahogany, the 

 silk cotton, are loaded down with a considerable number of 

 epiphytes belonging to the orchid, fern, cactus and aroid families. 

 Foremost among these air-dwellers are two members of the natural 

 order Cactacese, viz., Cereus triangularis Mill and Bhipsalis cas- 

 sxjtha Gaertn., which live in the crotches or attached to the upper 

 side of the limbs of tropical forest trees. Here are seen, also, 

 Philodendron laccrum Schott., Polypodium aurenm L., Vittaria 

 lineata Swartz, species of Epidendrum, and the following plants of 

 the genus Tillandsia : T. angustifulia Sw., T. complanata Benth., 

 T. biilbosa Hook., 1\ compressa Bert., T. excelsa Griseb., T. 

 fasciculata ^w., T. fiexuosa Sw., T. fe.ca Griseb., T. pruinosa Sw., 

 T. setacea Sw., T. usneoides Linn. 



The aerial life, therefore, seems to be of incontestible value to 

 these plants. Here they are installed in a position which offers the 

 largest amount of sunlight, and this advantage of increased 

 illumination seems to outweigh any disadvantage which the species 

 might have in running a constant risk of death by desiccation. 



Parasites. — There are a number of true parasites to be found 

 attached to and living upon the trunk and limbs of various tropi- 

 cal forest trees. Parasites of the genus Phoradendron, with 

 rounded or four-cornered stems, opposite or whorled, palmately 

 veined, leathery leaves, are among the most prominent. The 

 following species of the genus have been recorded as occurring in 




iOOl.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



the island: Phoradendron herterianum Nutt., P. fiavescens Nutt., 

 P. schottu Nutt., P. ruhrum Nutt. The geuus Dendrophthora 

 (formerly included in Arceuthobium) consists of parasites, that 

 arc represented in the Santo Doraingan flora by Dendrophthora 

 cupressoides Eichl., D. grac'ile Eichl., D. opmitioides Eichl. 



Xerophytes. — The writer has briefly alluded to the stretches of 

 country that may be said to be of arid nature in referring to the 

 topography of Santo Domingo. These desertic areas are usually 

 found on the slopes of mountains and in valleys that are sheltered 

 by their position from the prevalent summer rains. These rains 

 may be denominated trade-wind rains, because they owe their 

 origin to the strong evaporation of water within the zone of the 

 trades. If the trade wind encounters a mountainous island, or a 

 bald continental coast, the ascent of air over such obstructions 

 cools it, and the water in the clouds, thus formed, descends as 

 rain. For this reason the windward slopes of Santo Pomingo are 

 well watered, while the leeward slopes are comparatively dry. 

 Again, if the trade winds blow over a land of moderate elevation 

 no precipitation occurs, but the winds reduce its surface to a dry 

 desert by depriving it of moisture. In the Republic of Haiti, as 

 well as in that of Santo Domingo, there are many arid situations 

 which owe their barrenness to just such causes. Consequently in 

 such arid districts we naturally look for a xerophytic flora. The 

 species which exist in such situations are the following: Opuntia 

 tuna Mill., 0. spinossissima Mill., Cereus moniliformis D.C. , C. 

 fjrandiflorus Mill., Nopalea coccinellifera Salm Dyck, Mammillaria 

 simplex Haw., Melocactus communis Link and Otto, Pereskia 

 aculeata Mill. To this list of succulents belonging to the cactus 

 order should be added several other fleshy plants, viz., Agave sobo- 

 lifera Salm Dyck and Aloe vulgaris Lam. The arid hillsides are 

 generally covered, in addition to the xex'ophytes mentioned above, 

 with thickets of Acacia far nesianaWiWd., A. spha;roccphala Cham. 

 and Schlecht., the mezquite, Prosopis juliflora D. C, Yucca 

 aloifolia Linn, and Yucca gloriosa Linn. 



The native flora has been undisturbed on the slopes of the higher 

 mountains inland. Some of the most valuable timber trees have 

 been removed, but cutting them has rather improved the botanical 

 interest of the country, because the smaller plants have thus had 

 a chance^ to grow. Around the dwellings, however, and in the 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



cultivated valleys, great changes have been worked in the flora. 

 The indigenous plants have been slowly replaced by introductions 

 from tropical and temperate climes. 



A. typical valley which has been modified by human agency was 

 visited by the writer near the town of Cape Haitien, on the north 

 coast of the island. A description of the flora of this valley will 

 serve to illustrate the influence of cultivation upon the primitive 

 surroundings. The ravine in question is situated just back of the 

 town of Cape Haitien, between the mountain of the cape and the 

 main range to the south and southwest. A mountain stream of 

 limpid water runs down through the depression, and a bridle path 

 winds its way to the top of the hills overlooking the sea. Both 

 banks of the brook are covered with arborescent vegetation, except 

 where the gardens of houses are found, or where banana plantations 

 are made. The following trees are met in the rich soil of the 

 valley: The bread-fruit, Artocarpus incisa Linn. ; the star-apple, 

 Chrysophyllum eainito Linn. ; the mango, Mangijera indica Linn. ; 

 the banana, Musa sapientum Linn. ; the bamboo, Bambusa 

 vulgaris Schrad. ; the coffee, Coffea arahica Linn. : the guava, 

 Fsidium guajava Ijiun.; the trumpet tree, Cecropia peltata Linn.; 

 the chocolate, Theohroma cacao Linn. ; the alligator pear, Persea 

 gratisdma Gaertn. The banana fields are planted on the steep 

 declivities and consist of a pure growth without the admixture of 

 coffee plants and chocolate shrubs. Along the roadside are found 

 the following : Adiantamjiedatwn Linn., Asp/eniuni jjeUucidum (f), 

 Argemone mexicana Liun., Lepidium virginieum Linn., Mimosa 

 jmdica Linn., Momordka cliarantia Linn., Hibiscus trilobus Aubl. 



An occasional small maize field is interspersed with banana 

 plantations. The gardens of the houses along these roads are not 

 rich in species or in showy plants. Most of them sufier from 

 neglect. There is an apparent poverty of decorative plants and a 

 great uniformity is noticeable in the garden plants of adjacent 

 properties. A list of a few garden plants may here be given : 

 Musa sapientHm Linn., Hibiscus esculentus Linn., H. sabdariffa 

 Linn., Lycopersicum esculentum Mill., Solanum melongena Linn., 

 Cucurbita pej)o Linn., Gynandropsis pentaphylla D. C, Capsicum 

 annuum Linn., C baccatum Linn., Zingiber officinale Rose, 

 Dioscorea alata Linn., Punica granatum Linn., Fragaria vesca 

 Linn. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



Near Port-au-Prince a hillside was visited^which supported au 

 almosti pure growth of lignum vitte, Guaiacum officinale Linn.; the 

 mezquite, Prosopis jxdlflora D. C, and the acacias, Acacia S2)hcero- 

 cephaki Cham, and Schlecht., Acacia faimesianaWiUd., while on 

 rocky outcrops in open places in these woods was found a growth 

 of yuccas, probably Yucca aloifolia Linn. 



This brief sketch of the ecology of the flora of Santo" Domingo 

 suffices to show that an interesting and profitable field of investiga- 

 tion lies at the doors of the American botanist. The West Indies, 

 in their varied topographical configuration, are especially adapted 

 for philosophical inquiry into the causes which have influenced 

 the distribution of plants on the Korth American continent. The 

 writer believes, since his visit to Haiti and Jamaica, that the solu- 

 tion of this phyto-geographic problem will follow a careful biologi- 

 cal survey of the fauna and flora of the Greater and Lesser Antilles. 



36 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



NEW LAND MOLLUSKS OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY'. 



Alycaeus tanegasliimae n. sp. 



Shell similar in shape to A. harimensis. Pale brown, the early 

 whorls orange-red, or uniform whitish-corneous. Whorls 3^, the 

 last slowly descending, moderately constricted, then swollen again. 

 Sculpture of crowded rib-strise, finer at the constriction; no spiral 

 strire. Aperture very oblique, circular, the peristome double. 

 Operculum nearly smooth, the edges of the whorls slightly pro- 

 jecting. 



Alt, 1.7. diam. 3 mm. 



Tane-ga-shima, Osumi (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 723). 



Closely related to A. harimensis, but that is a much larger 

 species. 

 Carychium pessimum n. sp. 



Shell very minute, corneous-white, fusiform-conic, minutely 

 striate. • AVhorls 4f . convex. Aperture ovate, the peristome well 

 expanded, very much thickened within, with a strong tooth-like 

 prominence just above the middle of the outer lip, marked by a 

 groove behind the lip. Columella truncate below, the coluraellar 

 lamella small, receding. 



Length 1.8 mm. 



Tane-ga-shima, Osumi (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 729). 



This species is smaller and less conically tapering than C. nodu- 

 liferum Reinh. The columellar lamella is smaller, much less 

 prominent than in either C. noduliferum or C. cymatoplax. 

 Macrochlamys dulcis n. sp. 



Shell depressed, brownish -yellow, rather transparent, narrowly 

 perforate. Surface brilliantly glossy, weakly marked by growth- 

 lines, and under a strong lens seen to be engraved with excessively 

 fine, crowded spiral Hues, which are obsolete on the upper and 

 peripheral portions of the last whorl. Spire a little convex, nar- 

 row. Whorls 4^, sldwly widening, the last very wide, concave at 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 56''> 



the suture, rouuded peripherally and less so beneath, narrowly 

 impressed around the umbilical perforation. Aperture large, but 

 slightly oblique, very broadly lunate; peristome simple, a little 

 retracted at the upper insertion, basal margin straightened, the 

 coluraellar margin short, subvertical, dilated. 



Ait. 6, greater diara. 11^, lesser 10 mm. 



Nachi, Pvov. Kii (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 785). 



Well marked by the narrow perforation, small spire, sculpture 

 and the shape of the aperture. M. perfmgills Pils. of Kunchan, 

 Okinawa, is a closely related species, differing in the much larger 

 size, smaller perforation, etc. 



Eulota (Plectotropis) pannosa n, sp. 



Shell similar to trochula A. Ad. in general shape; light brown, 

 somewdiat translucent. Surface slightly shining, sculptured with 

 very minute spiral strise under sparsely scaly oblique cuticular 

 striae, with, at the periphery, a long, ragged fringe of flattened 

 filaments, triangular at their bases. Spire low-conic. Whorls 

 slightly over 6, slowly and regularly increasing, a little convex, 

 acutely carinate peripherally, convex beneath, being elevated and 

 subangular around the deep, broadly open umbilicus; the last 

 whorl very slightly descending in front. Aperture oblique, the 

 peristome hardly expanded above, thickened within and expanded 

 and somewhat reflexed below. 



Alt. 8J, diam. (exclusive of fringe) 17 mm.; width of umbili- 

 cus (from suture to suture) 4^ mm. 



Atsumi, Prov. Uzen (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 773). 



This s|)ecies differs from E. trochula in being much more angular 

 around the umbilicus, trochula being rounded there. E. vulgivaga 

 is a more solid shell, with the umbilicus wider and the base more 

 convex. 

 Eulota (Plectotropis) deflexa n. sp. 



Shell small, biconvex, widely and openly umbilicate, brown. 

 Surface dull, sculptured with subobsolete, fine spiral stride and slight 

 spaced growth-wrinkles, bearing a few cuticular threads and scales 

 above, more numerous short scales beneath, with a peripheral fringe 

 of flattened, ragged filaments. Spire low-conic. Whorls 5^, the 

 first ]^ convex, following whorls less so, the last whorl acutely 

 carinate, descending near the aperture for some distance and rather 




564 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



deeply below the keel; the base convex, subangular around the 

 umbilicus. Aperture oblique, rounded, the peristome arcuate, 

 unexpanded and thin above, narrowly expanded and subreflexed 

 below the periphery, the margins approaching, separated by the 

 nearly straight parietal margin, which forms less than one-fourth 

 the total circumference of the peristome. 



Alt. 5.5, diam. 10.8 mm.; width of umbilicus (from suture to 

 suture) 3 mm. 



Tobishima, Prov. Ugo (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 774). 



This species is related to Eulota {PlectotrojiLs) cenmla Gude, but 

 it is smaller with fewer whorls, the last descending in front and 

 with a developed, though usually incomplete, peripheral fringe. 

 E. defiexa is also less conic above, and the nepionic 1^ whorls pro- 

 ject somewhat. 



Eulota (.ffigista) aperta var. cavata "ov. 



Larger and more elevated than aperta, with 6J to 6f whorls, the 

 umbilicus larger, more widely open. Aperture more oblique, the 

 basal margin more deeply arcuate. 



Alt. 9, diam. 16, width of umbilicus 6 mm. 



Alt. 8, diam. 17, width of umbilicus 6h mm. 



Tomisato, Kii (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 761). 



This form approaches E. {jE<jista) kobensis somewhat, but that 

 is still more open beneath, with the aperture more elliptic. Some 

 specimens from Gojo, Yamato (Mr. Hirase's No. 567), are to some 

 extent intermediate between aperta and cavata in shape, as they 

 are in geographic position. 



Trishoplita Hilgendorfi var. chikubashimae nov. 



Shell smaller and thinner than hUgendorJi from the top of Mt. 

 Ibuki, Omi; very densely and minutely but subobsoletely granu- 

 losc; angular at the periphery in front, the umbilicus smaller. 

 Spire conic; whorls 5 in small, 5|- in large specimens. Aperture 

 rounded-lunate, the peristome thin, expanded. 



All. 7^, diam. 10| mm. 



Alt. 7, diam. 9J mm. 



Alt. 6, diam. 8^ mm. 



Chikubashima, an island in Lake Biwa (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 

 746). 



In describing T. Hilgendorfj var. tennis in these Proceedings, p. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5G5 



547, I neglected to state that wliile Hilgendorfi occurs at the top of 

 Mt. Ibuki, the var. tenuis is found in a valley below. '_^ 



Trishoplita tosana var. anozona nov. 



Shell thin and glossy like tosana, and resembling that species in 

 shape and the size of the umbilicus, but differing from it in want- 

 ing a pale zone below the suture. It has a narrower umbilicus than 

 T. Hilgendorfi var. tenuis. 



Alt. 8^, diam. 13 ram. 



Alt, 7, diam. 11|- ram. 



Akasaka, Mino (Mr. Y, Hirase, No. 7516). 



Still another form of this terrible genus, which I will call T. 

 tosana var. rufa, occurs at Kashiraa, Harima. It resembles ano- 

 zona, but is dull, russet-colored, densely striate spirally beneath, 

 subangular at the periphery in front. Whorls 5i to 5'^, the spire 

 conic. 



Alt, 8, diam. 11| ram. 



Chloritis Hirasei n. i^p. 



Shell openly umbilicate, depressed, thin and fragile, flattened 

 above, the earher whorls a trifle sunken; pale brown. Surface 

 lustreless, densely beset with delicate hairs arranged in oblique 

 sweeps. Whorls 4^, the last wide, rounded at the periphery and 

 beneath, hardly descending in front. Aperture lunate, the peri- 

 stome thin, a little expanded, somewhat dilated at the columellar 

 insertion. 



Alt. 8^, greatest diara. 17^, width of umbilicus 2f mm. 



Kurozu, Prov. Kii (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 786). 



This species is larger and flatter than C. fmgilis Gude, with 

 more densely placed hairs, and a much wider umbilicus. C. osci- 

 tans V. Mart., a form of which Mr. Hirase sends from Mikuriya, 

 Prov, Suruo;a, is a smaller, almost imperforate species, the most 

 northern of its genus. No exact locality has hitherto been reported 

 for von Marten's species. C. eucharistus Pils., of Oshima, also 

 brought to light by Mr. Hirase, is the finest Chloritis of the 

 Japanese Empire, these four species being all known from Japan 

 to this time. 

 Ganesella tanegashimae var. dulcis n. var. 



Similar to the type except in color, the shell being of a very 

 dark and beautiful chestnut color, with a blackish peripheral 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



band. The interior is purple Avith a bluish gleam, and the lip 

 purple. 



Alt. 18|, diam. 26 mm. 



Tane-ga-shima. 



Only two living specimens of this superb variety Avere taken. 

 Dead shells are reddish rather than chestnut. 

 Ganesella selasia n. sp. 



Shell umbilicate, trochiform, brovvu or corneous-brown, very 

 glossy, striatulate, finely malleate in places. Spire conic; whorls 

 of, convex, slowly inci'easiug, the last depressed, subangular at 

 the periphery, somewhat convex below, slightly descending in 

 front, narrowly constricted behind the lip. Aperture oblique, 

 somewhat triangular, the peristome thin, arcuate and narrowly 

 expanded above and outwardly, the basal margin straight or sinu- 

 ous, reflexed, thickened (like a low, wide tooth) within; columel- 

 lar margin short, dilated. 



Alt. 11|^, diam. 16, Avidth of umbilicus 1^ mm. 



Alt. llj, diam. 15, width of umbilicus 11 mm. 



Nachi, Prov. Kii (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 788). 



The glossy surface, narrow whorls and open umbilicus separate 

 this from all forms of G. japonica.'^ 

 Ganesella cristata n. sp. 



Shell imperforate, globose- trochiform, pale russet, with a faint 

 broAvn line at the periphery, a pale line below it. Surface very 

 obsoletely and indistinctly papillose, somewhat dull. Spire a little 

 convexly conic. Whorls 5f to 6^, con\'ex, the last rounded per- 

 ipherally. Abruptly descending in front, expanding in a conspicuous 

 ridge or crest and then strongly contracted behind the lip. Aperture 

 oblique, someAvhat triangular, the upper and outer margins ex- 

 panded, thickened within, basal margin straightened, reflexed, 

 indistinctly toothed or thickened Avithin; columellar margin short, 

 abruptly expanded over and covering the umbilicus. 



Alt. 14, diam. 16 mm. 



Alt. 11^, diam. 15 mm. 



Nachi, Prov. Kii (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 783^>). 



The absence of spiral lines on the slightly dull, silken surface, 

 the closure of the umbilicus, and the crest behind the lip all mark 

 this as a species distinct from the G. japonica series. The smaller 

 specimens are obtusely subangular in front. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



Ganesella japonica var. granulosa "ov. 



In this race the shell is trochiform, umbih'cate, strongly carinate 

 at the periphery, irregularly wrinkle-striate, minutely, very obso- 

 letely granulose, with some faint spiral lines or none. It is light 

 brown, not corneous or corneous-brown, as in japonica. Two 

 forms have been received, a larger and smaller. 



Alt. 14, diam. 19 mm. (large form, No. 5136 of Mr. Hirase's 

 Coll.). 



Alt. 13, diam. 14^ mm. (small form. No. 513c of Mr. Hirase's 

 Coll.). 



Alt. 11, diam. 15 mm, (small form. No. 513c of Mr. Hirase's 

 Coll.). 



Ibuki Mountain, Prov. Omi. The small form occurs also at 

 Kyoto. 



Ganesella japonica var. carinata Pilsbry and A. Gulick, nov. 



This is a large, very strongly carinate shell, openly umbilicate, 

 yellowish-corneous, and finely striate spirally like G. japonivd. 

 Whorls 5J to nearly 6. 



Alt. 18, diam. 26 mm. 



Alt. 16, diam. 23 mm. 



Ibuki, Omi (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 513a). Types No. 79,202, 

 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



This is apparently the "Helix patnielis Ad.," "H. tabuensis 

 Ancey," of authors; but after a careful examination of the 

 evidence, a year or two ago, Mr. Gulick and I concluded that it 

 could not be identical with the form described by Adams and 

 renamed by Ancey. It is apparently an independent local moun- 

 tain race of G. japonica. 



The sculpture, paler color, and less trochiform shape separate it 

 from the large form of G. japonica granulosa, which is apparently 

 a parallel modification of the papillose or granular type of the G. 

 japonica stock. 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



SOME ARACHNIDA FROM NEW MEXICO, 

 BY NATHAN BANKS. 



The following list of New Mexican Araclmida is based chiefly 

 on material collected during the past few years by Prof. T. D. A. 

 Cockerell. A few species were collected by his wife and son. 

 Prof. C. H. T. Townsend, when connected with the New Mexico 

 Agricultural Experiment Station, collected and sent to me a small 

 lot of spiders from the vicinity of Las Cruces. The late Mr. 

 Hugo Soltau sent me a very interesting collection from Albu- 

 querque, containing a number of forms not taken by others. I 

 have added the few species recorded by other writers from Nevv 

 Mexico, but not seen by me. 



The total sums up to 148 species, nineteen of which appear to 

 be new and are here described. The leading groups may be 

 tabulated as follows: 



Araneida, 123 



Phalangida, 6 



Pseudoscorpionida, 3 



Scorpiouida, 2 



^. Solpugida, 3 



Acax'ina, 11 



Total, 148 



The spiders are included in seventeen families; the leading 

 family in point of numbers is the Attidoe with twenty- tAvo species; 

 the others are : Thomisida) with sixteea, Thei'idiidte with sixteen, 

 Epeiridse with thirteen, and the Lycosidse with ten species. Of 

 especial interest are the species of Paehylomerus, Meriola, Corlnna, 

 Oxyopes, Fuentes and Taraais. The list shows many northern as 

 well as southern forms. The species of Northern distribution are 

 mostly from Beulah and Las Vegas. The Southern forms come 

 mostly from Mesilla and Las Cruces. Of the species of northern 

 distribution, many of which occur across the northern part of 

 our country, attention may be drawn to the following forms : 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF riULADELPllIA. 5G*J 



Drassodes robustus, Piecilochroa montamt, Gnaphosa cunspersa, 

 Titanceca americana, Grammonota pictilis, Telracjnatha extensa, 

 JEpeira aculeata, Xysticus mo)itane)isis, Lycosa modeda, Pardosa 

 gladalis, Icius simllii, llahroeestum oregonense and Phalangium 

 cinereum. These species ally the fauna very strongly to that of 

 Colorado. 



The Southern element coutaius several species not previously 

 known from north of the Mexican boundary. The most charac- 

 teristic of these species are Physocydus globosus, Gnaphosa distinda, 

 Sysjnra sp., Dictyiia texana, Epeira nepkiloides, Epeira oaxensis, 

 Ebo mexicana, Olios fasdculatus, Phidippus bicolor, Sadala distinda, 

 Ammotrecha peninsxdana and Lit hyp hantes fulvKS. There does not 

 appear to be any particular connection between this fauna and that 

 of Arizona, although, of course, there are a number of foi'ms com- 

 mon to both. These forms are such as are rather widely distributed 

 in the West. Of the six harvest-men, one is a northeastern form, 

 one a northwestern one, two are typical Colorado species, and two 

 are known chiefly from New IMexico. Of the three Pseudoscorpions, 

 one is a typical Colorado species and two are Cahfornia forms. 



The collection, as a whole, contains few bright-colored species, 

 and none are of very large size. In fact, many of the specimens 

 are smaller than those from more noi'therly regions. 



Mr. Cockerell gives the following notes on localities : 



(1) The Mesilla Valley, about 3,800 feet, includes Mesilla 

 Park and Mesilla (collections by Cockerell) and Las Cruces 

 (collections by Townsend; a few specimens by Cockerell). These 

 places are all close together, and are in the Middle Sonorau zone. 



(2) Organ Mountains; collections at La Cueva and Fillmore 

 Caiion by Townsend, and at Dripping Spring by Cockerell, These 

 mountains may be considered LTpper Sonoran ; they form the 

 eastern boundary of the Mesilla Valley. 



(3) White Mountains; collections by Townsend. This includes 

 the localities cited as Ruidoso creek and Eagle creek. The moun- 

 tains form an isolated range of considerable altitude, and possess 

 some endemic mollusca, at least. 



(4) Albuquerque; collections by Soltau. This is Upper Son- 

 oran. 



(5) Las Vegas; collections by Cockerell. This has an altitude 

 of about 6,400 feet, and is Upper Sonoran, tinged with Transi- 




570 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.^ 



tioD. Las Vegas Hot Springs (collection by Cockerell) is more 

 decidedly Transition. 



(6) Santa Fe (collections by Cockerell) is Transition. Altitude 

 7, 000 feet. 



(7) Beulah, Sapello Caiion (collections by Cockerell), is in the 

 Las Vegas range, and has an altitude of about 8,000 feet. This 

 belongs to the Canadian zone; the only other arachnids of this 

 zoae listed are some from the White Mountains. 



(8) Top of range between the Sapello and Pecos rivers, about 

 11,000 feet; collection by Cockerell. This belongs to the Hud- 

 sonian zone. 



THERAPHOSID^. 



Eurypelma steindachneri Ausserer. 



Eurypclma steindacJinei'i Ansaerev, Yerh. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1875, 

 p. 199. 



A male and young female, collected by Prof. Townsend, without 



definite locality. Mr. Cockerell states that it is common in the 



Mesilla Valley. 



Pachylomerus modestus "• sp. 



Cephalothorax and mandibles shining black; abdomen dull 

 black above, no markings; sternum and coxse yellow-brown; legs 

 blackish, tarsi paler; tibia and tarsus of palpus pale; spinnerets 

 pale. Cephalothorax broad, truncate in front, surface finely and 

 uniformly granulate, from the eye-region backward there are two 

 submedian lines. Posterior eye-row procurved; the P. M.E. fully 

 three times their diameter apart, and touching the slightly larger 

 P.S.E. ; anterior eye-row strongly procurved, the A. M.E. equal 

 to the P.M.E., rather more than their diameter apart, closer to 

 the much larger A.S.E. Dorsum of abdomen corrugate. Tibia 

 of male palpus about three and one-half times as long as broad, 

 somewhat swollen below at base, palpal organ of usual form, the 

 stvlet very long, curved before middle and again at tip. Eight 

 short spines in the inner row on the inner side of tibia L 



Length 12 mm. 



One male, collected by Townsend, probably near Las Cruces.] 



FILISTATIDJE. 

 Filistata Mbernalis Hentz. 



Filistata Mbernalis Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., IV, p. 237 (1843). 

 Several females from Albuquerque (Soltau), and two males 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIHA. 571 



from Prof. Townsend, without definite locality. The male (as T. 

 capitata) is recorded by Dr. Marx. 



SOYTODIDJE. 



Scytodes thoracioa (Latrcilk). 



Aranea tJioracicn Latreille, Tabl. Meth. ties Ins , p. 134 (1804). 

 Dr. Marx identifies this among material sent him by Prof. 

 Townsend. 



Loxosceles unicolor Kcyserling. 



Loxosceles unicolor K^jsevMng, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1887, p. 474. 

 Described from New Mexico, and I have one specimen collected 

 by Prof. Townsend; also recorded by Dr. Marx. 



PHOLOID^. 

 Psilochorus puUulus (Hentz). 



Therkllon puUtilum Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., VI, p. 282 (1850). 

 Pholcus coriiutus Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1887, p. 208. 



Two males from Albuquerque; the species appears to be moder- 

 ately common in the Southwest. 



Physocyclus globosus (Taczanowski). 



Pholms globosus Taczanowski, Horsse Soc. Entom. Ross., Vol. X, p. 105 



(1874). 

 Pholcus gibbosus Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1877, p. 208. 



One female from Mesilla Park, April; young from Las Cruces. 



DRASSID.,^. 

 Prosthesima atra (Hentz). 



Berpyllus atra Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., V, p. 455 (1846). 

 Several examples from Albuquerque (Soltau) and from first 

 Ruidoso camp, Eagle creek, White Mountains, third week in 

 August. 



Prosthesima cockerelli u. sp. 



Cephalothorax nearly uniform pale yellowish-brown, a black 

 marginal line and around anterior eyes black; the mandibles and 

 sternum more red-brown; the legs pale yellow-brown, the tibise 

 and beyond of anterior legs* more red -brown; abdomen gray 

 above, blackish on sides and behind, below more yellowish; 

 spinnerets pale; epigynum red-brown; the male with a yellow 

 shield on base of abdomen above. The cephalothorax is quite 

 narrow in front; posterior eye-row nearly straight; P.M.E. 




o72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



round, fully diameter apart, about same distauce from the equal 

 P.S.E. ; A.M.E. much larger thau P.M.E., much less than 

 diameter apart, and much closer to the rather smaller A. S. E. 

 Mandibles rather long. Legs of moderate length, tibire I and II 

 with one spine below at middle and a pair at tip, these metatarsi 

 with a pair near the base; tarsi and metatarsi slightly scopulate; 

 one spine above on base of tibia III. Sternum narrowed in front, 

 pointed behind. Abdomen quite large, depressed, nearly twice as 

 long as broad, with some stiff black bail's at base; the epigynum 

 shows a broad area divided in front, and behind enclosing a trian- 

 gular septum. The tibia of male palpus shows on the outer side a 

 slender projection, the tip of which is slightly recurved. 



Length 9 10 mm., cj^ 8 mm. 



Several specimens from Mesilla Park (Cockerell). 

 Prosthesima blanda Banks. 



Prosthesima blanda Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., 1892, p. 18. 



Two specimens (one immature) from Albuquerque. Previously 

 known from Ithaca, N. Y., and Colorado. 



Drassodes robustus (Emcrton). 



Drassus robushis Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., VIII, p. 15 (1890). 

 Several specimens, none quite adult, from Albuquerque, also 

 Las Vegas, February. They agree with Colorado specimens, and 

 there is no probability that an adult would show a different vulva. 

 This species extends across the country from New Hampshire to 

 Washington. 



Foecilochroa montana Emerton. 



Pmeiloehroa montana Emerton, Trans. Conu. Acad. Sci., YIII, p. 11 

 (1890). 



One female from first Ruidoso camp. White IMountains, latter 

 half of July. A sub-boreal species, known from New Hamp- 

 shire, northei'n New York, Colorado and Washington. 

 Gnaphosa conspersa Thorcll. 



Gnaphosa conspersa Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 2, 

 p. 489 (1877). 



One female from Beulah. 



Gnaphosa distincta Banks. 



Gnaphosa distincta Banks, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 3d Ser., Zool., Vol. 

 I, p. 222 (1898). 



Two specimens from the White IMountains appear to belong to 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHFA. .57-> 



this Mexican species, not previously recorded from the United 

 States. 



Gnaphosa hirsutipes n. sp. 



Cephalothorax pale yellow-brown, darker around eyes, margin 

 black, at base of pars cephalica are two oblique blackish spots, 

 more or less distinct. Mandibles and sternum red-brown, the 

 latter with dark margin. Legs pale yellow-brown, the tarsi rather 

 darker. Abdomen uniform light brown above, below rather 

 paler, spinnerets yellowish; epigynum reddish. Posterior eye-row 

 slightly recurved, P.M.E. oval, oblique, at hind ends about their 

 short diameter apart, nearly twice as far from the slightly larger 

 P.S.E. ; anterior eye-row shorter, straight; A.M.E. no larger 

 than P.M.E., about diameter apart, and plainly closer to the 

 slightly larger A.S.E. Legs short and stout, quite thickly 

 clothed with fine hairs, very few spines, none under tibia I, one at 

 tip under metatarsus I, a fine one at tip of tibia II, and one at tip 

 of metatarsus II. Sternum short and broad, truncate in front, 

 rounded behind; abdomen depressed, one and one-half times 

 longer than broad, truncate at base where there are many stiff 

 hairs. The epigynum shows a cavity, narrow behind; the anterior 

 part mostly filled by a broad, tapering septum. 



Length 8 mm. 



Two females from Albuquerque (Soltau). 



Micaria albocincta n- sp. 



Cephalothorax uniform dark red-brown : mandibles nearly black ; 

 sternum black; legs yellow-brown, tips of tarsi yellow, femora I 

 and II dark brown, base of femur III also dark; abdomen black, 

 covered with iridescent scales, a narrow median white band extend- 

 ing well down on each side, and an indistinct one near base. 

 Cephalothorax moderately slender; P.M.E. round, nearly twice 

 their diameter apart, slightly more than the diameter from larger 

 P.S.E. ; A.M.E. a little larger than P.M.E., scarcely the diam- 

 eter apart, closer to the equal A.S.E. ; quadrangle of M.E. 

 higher than broad. Tibite I and II each with a pair of spines at 

 base, a pair at middle, and a single one at tip, none on metatarsi; 

 metatarsi and tarsi beneath with scant scopula of clavate hairs. 

 Abdomen fully twice as long as broad, not constricted in middle. 



Length 5.7 mm. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



One specimen from Beulah (Cockerell) ; another from top of 

 Las Vegas range, 11,000 feet, last of June. 



CLUBIONID^. 



Chiracanthium inclusum (Hentz). 



Cluhiona inclusa Hentz, Jour. Best. Soc. N. H., V, p. 451 (1846). 



Some immature specimens from Mesilla Park (Cockerell). 

 Anyphaena sp- 



One immature specimen from Mesilla Park, January, and 

 another from Mesilla. 



It has a black clypeus and black mandibles, a brown stripe on 

 each side of the cephalothorax, broadest behind; and two rows of 

 connected spots on the dorsum of abdomen, united behind. It is 

 possibly A. futilis Banks, a Mexican species. 

 Gayenna marginalis n. sp. 



Cephalothorax yellowish, margin black, two black stripes above, 

 not reaching hind margin, and two within these near eyes, eyes on 

 black spots; mandibles pale yellowish; legs yellowish, femora with 

 three incomplete narrow black rings, two on the tibite, and some 

 spots on the hind pairs of metatarsi. Sternum pale, margined 

 with brown; abdomen pale gray, quite densely marked above with 

 pale brown spots, those on the sides being oblique dashes ; venter 

 with a dark stripe each side, and a bi'oader median one, all ending 

 at the ventral furrow. P. M.E. scarcely their diameter apart, 

 barely closer to the rather smaller P.S.E. ; A.M.E. much 

 smaller, not one-half their diameter apart, and fully as close to 

 the subequal A.S. E. Tibia I below with five spines in front and 

 four behind; tibia II with four in front and three behind ; meta- 

 tarsi I and II with three pairs beneath. 



Length 6 mm. 



One female from near Beulah, March, 8,000 feet altitude 

 (Cockerell). 

 Meriola inornata n. sji. 



Cephalothorax, mandibles and sternum dark red-brown; legs 

 pale yellowish, fore pairs little, if any, darker; abdomen above 

 and below pale yellowish, a faint basal brown spear-mark. Cephalo- 

 thorax and sternum rugosely granulate; posterior eye-row nearly 

 straight, P. M.E. about their diameter apart, no closer to the 

 rather smaller P.S.E. ; A.M.E. equal to P.M.E., nearly their 




1901.] XATCRAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELI'IIIA. 575 



diameter apart, much closer to the nearly equal A.S.E. ; quad- 

 raugle of M.E. a trifle broader than high. Mandibles large and 

 slightly porrect; sternum truncate in front; hind coxa) widely 

 separated. Legs quite long and slender, no spines, but with many 

 hairs ; beneath on tibiae, metatarsi and tarsi are rows of serrated, 

 semi-clavate hairs, each arising from a pointed granule; these are 

 most evident on anterior legs. Abdomen slightly depressed, 

 about one and one-half times as long as broad, nearly truncate at 

 base. The epigynum shows two elliptical approximate marks be- 

 neath the surface, in each outer posterior corner is a black circular 

 cavity, between them are two smaller black dots from which lines 

 extend to the furrow. 



Length 3.5 mm. 



One female from Albuquerque (Soltau). 



Thargalia modesta n. s]\ 



Cephalothorax pale reddish yellow, black around the eyes; man- 

 dibles and femora like cephalothorax, rest of legs pale yellowish, 

 except the fourth pair, which have the tibise and metatarsus brown, 

 the former pale on base and tip; sternum brown; venter black; 

 palpi pale yellow; abdomen black, with black hairs and scales, a 

 white band at base, a spot each side behind this band, and a nar- 

 row white baud before the middle. Cephalothorax quite long and 

 blender, about the length of tibia plus patella IV ; head not ele- 

 vated. Posterior eye-row procurved; P. M.E. round, nearly twice 

 their diameter apart, over diameter from equal P. S.E, ; anterior 

 row shorter, nearly straight, A. M.E about their diameter apart, 

 closer to the equal A.S.E., S.E. about diameter apart and sub- 

 equal ; quadrangle of M.E. much higher than broad, broader behind 

 than in front. Abdomen scarcely longer than the cephalothorax, 

 broadly rounded behind, with a horny shield at base. 



Length ? 6 mm. 



One female from Albuquerque (Soltau). 



Thargalia ^p- 



One immature specimen from Dripping Springs, Organ Moun- 

 tains, in April. Probably represents an undescribed species, 

 Corinna bicalcarata Simon. 



Coriana bicalcarata Simon, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., 1896, p. 416. 



One female from Las Cruces. It was described from Arizona, 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Phrurolithus •^p- 



Two specimens, both females, from the White Mountains, first 

 Ruidoso camp, latter half of July. Very near P. pacjnatus 

 Emer. , and quite possibly identical ; a male from Las Vegas, 

 February. 



Syspira sp. 



One immature specimen from a deep hole in the ground, Janu- 

 ary 24, at Mesilla Park. Like aS'. tigrma but paler, yet may, be 

 identical; both of the described species come from Lower Cali- 

 fornia, and this is the first record of the genus in our country. 



AGALENID^. 

 Agalena longistylus n. sp. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish, with a brown stripe each side, 

 broadest behind, leaving a pale median area, narrower behind; side 

 margins narrowly brown; eyes on black spots; mandibles yellowish 

 brown; sternum yellowish, broadly margined with brown ; legs 

 pale yellowish, femora marked with oblique brown spots, tibise 

 and metatarsi brown at tips; abdomen brown, a broad pale area 

 above, enclosing a brown basal spear-mark ; venter yellowish 

 brown, a brown line on each side; upper spinnerets brown, last 

 joint long and slender like that of A. ncevia. Structure similar to 

 A. ncevia, but the stylet of the male palpus is very much longer, 

 making two full circles, the outside process is proportionally larger 

 and sharper pointed, the tibia extends over the base of tarsus as 

 in ^. n<evia. 



Length c? 7 mm. 



One male from first Ruidoso camp, White Mountains, August 

 10 (Townsend). 



Agalena naevia Hcntz. 



Agalena nmvia Hentz, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H., Vol. Y, p. 465 (1847). 

 One small male from Eagle creek. White Mountains, August. 

 The stylus is of the usual length, a trifle moi-e than one circle; the 

 femora are unmarked. 



Cicurina arcuata Kcyserling. 



Cicurina arcuata Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1884, p. 460. 

 One female from Las Vegas Hot Springs, January. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



DICTYNID^. 

 Dictyna arundinacoides Kcyserlins. 



I)i('ti/n<( ((ruiuUnacoides Keyserliiig, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1883, 

 p."6«5. 



Several specimens from Beulah. A pair from top of Las Vegas 

 range, 11,000 feet, last of June. 



Dictyna texana Banks. 



Dktiina texana Batiks, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci. (3), Vol. I, p. 233 



(1898). 



Two immature specimens from Mesilla Park 

 Dictyna sii. 



One female of a small species from Las Cruces. It is much like 

 D. suhlata, but different. 



Titanceca americana Emerton. 



Titanoeca americana Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., VII, p. 453 (1888) 



One broken specimen from Las Vegas, at the limestone ledges 

 by Gallinas river, January. Does not appear to differ from Eas- 

 tern form. 

 Lethia trivittata n. sp. 



Cephalothorax dark red -brown, with three stripes of white hairs 

 on the head uniting behind at the dorsal groove; mandibles red- 

 brown; sternum and legs more yellow-brown, paler toward tips; 

 abdomen grayish white above, with a broad median brown stripe 

 with serrated margins. Legs quite long and hairy, no spines ; 

 mandibles of male long and slightly concave; palpus of male short, 

 the tibia with a plate-like projection below near the tip, palpal 

 organ simple, a long stylet on outer side, bent over at tip; epigy- 

 num shows two transverse cavities in front, and two smaller 

 oblique cavities behind. Posterior eye-row straight, P.M.E. 

 fully their diameter apart, about as far from the equal P.S.Li.; 

 A.M.E. equal to P.M.E., about their diameter apart, and closer 

 to the equal ^.S. E. ; quadrangle of M. E. broader than high. 



Length ? 6 mm.; d^ 4. 2 mm. 



One pair from Albuquerque (Soltau). 



THERIDIID^. 

 Theridium neomexioanum n- ;^i'. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish, with a marginal black line, head 

 with four reddish brown lines, converging back from the eyes and 

 37 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



uniting at dorsal gi'oove; mandibles and sternum pale yellowish; 

 legs pale, tips of patellte and tibise, and sometimes of metatarsi, 

 reddish; abdomen white, a few scattered black dots on dorsum, 

 and two larger black spots above the spinnerets. Cephalothorax of 

 usual shape; P.M.E, rather large, a little less than diameter 

 apart; the A.M. E. smaller, fully diameter apart; quadrangle of 

 M.E. forming a square. Legs of moderate length, metatarsus 

 I a little longer than tibia I. Sternum triangular, the sides 

 slightly rounded. Abdomen (when full of eggs) globular, higher 

 than long; the epigynum shows as a simple median black opening. 



Length 4 mm. 



Two females from Las Cruces (Cockerell). 



Theridium diiferens Emerton. 



Theridimn differ ens Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., VI, p. 9 (1882). 

 A young male from Mesilla Park, iS'ovember oO, appears to 

 belong to this species (Cockerell). 



Steatoda grandis n. sp. 



Cephalothorax and mandibles uniform dark red-brown ; legs a 

 brighter red-brown, still paler on the tarsi, tips of tibiic plainly 

 darker; sternum black; abdomen black above, with a naiTow white 

 line around base, extending back about one-third the distance to 

 tip; venter pale, with a black mark similar in shape to that of S. 

 borealis, but heavier. The posterior eye-row is straight, the 

 P.M.E. fully their diameter apart, i-ather closer to the slightly 

 larger P.S.E. ; the A. M.E. much larger than the P.M.E., about 

 one-half their diameter apart, and still closer to the much smaller 

 A.S.E. , the latter nearly touching the P.S.E. The epigynum 

 shows a nearly circular, depressed corneous lid, with a small trans- 

 verse opening behind. The legs are of moderate length, but 

 rather large and stout. 



Length 7.5 mm. 



One female from Albuquerque (Soltau). It has much resem- 

 blance to the common S. borca/is, but is larger and heavier; this is 

 particularly noticeable in the size of the legs. 



Steatoda borealis (Hentz). 



ThcridiaiH, borealis Henlz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., VI, p. 274 (1850). 

 One from first Ruidoso camp, White Mountains, latter half of 

 July. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



Lithyphantes fulvus Keyst•l■lin.^. 



Lithypliantes fnlvus Keys., Die Spinn. Amer., Theridiidic, p. 112, 



1884. 



One immature specimen from Las Cruces (Cockerel!). 



Lithyphantes corollatus (LinnC"). 



Aranea corolhita Linne, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, i, p. 621 (175H). 

 A female from Las Vegas (Cockerell), and a pair from Prof. 

 Townsend. 



Lathrodectus mactans (Fabricius)."; 



Aranea mactans Fabricius, Eutom. Syst., II, p. 410 (1793). 

 ' 'An adult female from Mesilla Park in April, also young from 

 Las Cruces (Cockerell) ; one female from Las Vegas Hot Springs, 

 January. It is also found commonly at Santa Fe (Cockerell, 

 Bull. 15, N. M. Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 81). 



Euryopis funebris (Ilentz). 



Theridimn funehris Hentz, Jonr. Bost. Soc. N. H., VI, p. 276 (1850). 

 Several specimens from Beulah. 



Grammonota pictilis (Cambridge). 



Erigone pictilis Cambridge, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1875, p. 396. 

 Three females and a male from Albuquerque; do not appear to 

 differ from Eastern specimens. 



Ceratinella occidentalis n. sp. 



Cephalothorax uniform dark red-brown, shining; abdomen dull 

 gray, with a dark red-brown'' dorsal shield, containing four black 

 submedian impressions forming a trapeze; sternum red-brown; 

 mandibles paler red-brown, fang black in middle; legs pale red- 

 dish, the patellre paler, especially from beneath; abdomen with 

 many small dark pits from which arise hairs. Cephalothorax 

 rather short and broad; P.M.E. fully one and one-half their 

 diameter apart, and as far from the equal P.S.E. ; A.M.E. 

 small, close together, farther from Ihe larger A S.E. Sternum 

 broad, broadly truncate between hind coxre which are widely sepa- 

 rated. Abdomen with a large rounded dorsal shield, about one- 

 third longer than broad, and rather pointed behind ; on the venter 

 there is a somewhat semicircular shield each side of the epigynum, 

 another in front of the spinnerets, and several corneous dots as 

 follows: Two behind epigynum, two in front of the anal plate, 




580 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



aud a series each side, of which the basal one is the largest. Legs 

 hairy, without spines. 



Length 1.6 mm. 



Two females from Beulah, March, 8 ,000 feet altitude (Cockerell). 

 Tmeticus sp. 



One specimen, a male from Eagle creek camp, White Moun- 

 tains. In many respects similar to T. perplexa, but different; not 

 in very good condition. 

 Tmeticus brevipalpus n. sp. 



Cephalothorax yellowish brown, more or less mottled with dull 

 black, eyes on black spots; mandibles more red-brown; legs pale 

 yellowish; sternum dark brown; abdomen black, with some small 

 scattered white spots above. Cephalothorax rather broad, head 

 shghtly elevated ; posterior eye-row nearly straight; P.M.E. 

 about their diameter apart, and about as far from the equal 

 P.S.E. ; A.M.E. smaller, about diameter apart, aud rather 

 farther from the lai'ger A.S.E. ; quadrangle of M.E. broader 

 beliind than in front, and a little higher than broad. Mandibles 

 vertical, slightly diverging, unarmed. Sternum very broad, 

 rounded behind. Legs long, with many hairs, but few spines; 

 metatarsus I scarcely as long as tibia I. The tibia of palpus shows 

 above two projections, a long one at tip and a smaller one toward 

 base. Stylet long and curved once around the tip. 

 Length 2 mm. 

 One specimen from the White Mountains (Townsend). 



Tmeticus perplexus (Kcyserling). 



Eri(jonc perplexa Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., Therid., II, p. 190, 



1886. 

 Tmeticus pcctinatus Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., IX, p. 409, 1894. 



One male from Albuquerque. 



LinypMa communis (Hentz). 



Lifill'phia coiivmunis Hentz, Jour. Bost. Sec. N. H., VI, p. 280 (1850). 

 One female from La Cueva, Organ Mountains, in August; 

 another from one-half mile below first Ruidoso camp. White 

 Mountains, August 8, by sweeping. 



Linyphia phrygiana Koch. 



LinypMa phrygiana Koch, Die Arach., Ill, p. 83, 1836. 

 Several specimens from top of Las Vegas range, 11,000 feet, 

 last of June. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. •'JSl 



Microneta soltaui n. sp. 



Cephalothorax and legs yellowish, the mandibles and sternum 

 often more brownish, eyes on black spots, femora of male more 

 reddish; the abdomen is gray above and below, spinnerets yellow- 

 ish. Posterior eye-row is slightly procurved, P.M.E. about 

 diameter apart, rather closer to the equal P.S.E. ; A.M.E. 

 small, close together, much farther from the much larger A.S.E. 

 which are some larger than the P.S.E. to which they are closely 

 approximated; quadrangle of M. E. much higher than broad, 

 broader behind than in front. Mandibles divergent, no teeth in 

 front. Tibia of male palpus swollen below, above, as well as the 

 patella tipped with several strong hairs; tarsus broad, rather angu- 

 lar above near base; the palpal organ broadest near tip; a dark piece 

 extending across the base, close to the surface, tapering and 

 twisted, but little curved; a large and prominent hook on inner 

 face, curved and twisted at the tip where it is bifid. The epi- 

 gynum is prominent and triangular in form, with a small median 

 finger behind. 



Length cJ' 2.4 mm.; $2.8 mm. 



Several specimens from Albuquei'que (Soltau). 



TETRAGNATHIDu^. 

 Tetragnatha extensa (LimiC). 



Aranea extensa Linue, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, p. 021 (1767). 

 One pair from Beulah, and a male from the White jNIountains, 

 Eagle creek camp, third week in August. 



Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz. 



Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., VI, p. 27 (1850). 

 Several specimens from Las Cruces ; one from one-half mile 

 below first Ruidoso camp, August 4, by sweeping. 



Eugnatha pallida Banks. 



Tetragnatha pallida Banks, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. , 1892, p. 51. 

 One male from Beulah. 



EPEIRIDiE. 



Argiope transversa Emerton. 



Argiope transversa Emer., Trans. Conn. Acad., VI, p. 330, 1884. 

 Epeira fasciata Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., V, p. 468 (1847). 



One fine specimen from Las Vegas, September (Miss Ada 

 Springer). 




582 PROCPiEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



Argiope aurantia Lutas. 



Argiope aurantia Lucas, Ana. Soc. Eatora. France, 1833, p. 86. 

 Epeira riparia Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., V, p. 468 (1847). 



'/ One specimen collected by Prof. Townseml. 

 Gasteracantha cancriformis (Linn6). 



Aranea cancriformis Linne, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, p. 1037 (1767). 

 Recorded from New Mexico by Dr. Marx, in his Catalogue. 

 Mr. Cockerell says he has never seen it, so far as he can remember. 



Epeira placida Uentz. 



Epeira placida Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., V, p. 475 (1847). 

 Two females from one-half mile below first Ruidoso camp, 

 White Mountains, August, by sweeping. They are not quite 

 adult, aud difler considerably from the usual form. There are no 

 stripes on the cephalothorax ; the abdomen is light chocolate-brown, 

 with some white marks in front aud where the stripe should be, 

 behind there are two black spots each side. The spinnerets are 

 black, with the usual two spots each side. Structurally there are 

 no diflerences from the Eastern specimens, but the male might show 

 differences in the palpus. E. j)lacida has not previously been 

 recorded from the West. 



Epeira oaxensis Keyserling. 



Epeira oaxensis Keyserling, Sitzungsber. Isis, Dresden, 1863, p. 121. 

 Epeira vertebrata McCook, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888, p. 19G. 



Several specimens from Las Cruces, September 6 (Cockerell), 

 aud Eagle creek camp and Ruidoso creek, White Mountains, 

 third week in August. An abundant species in the extreme South- 

 west and in Mexico. 



Epeira aculeata Emerton. 



Epeira aculeata Emerton, Bull U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 3, 

 p. 528 (1877). 



A few specimens from Beulah (Cockerell). A species common 

 in the foothills of Colorado. 



Epeira labyrinthea Heutz. 



Epeira labyrinthea Hentz, Jour. Bo.st. Soc. N. H., V, p. 471 (1847). 

 Three specimens from ^Eagle creek camp, jAVhite ^lountains, 

 August. 



Epeira displicata Heutz. 



Epeira displicata Hentz, Jour. Bust. Soc. N. H., V, p. 476 (1847). 

 One specimen swept from Solidago patch on Ruidoso side of 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



divide, about 200 feet below top of divide, White Mountains, 

 August 17. 



Epeira trivittata Keyscrlins. 



Epeira tricittata Keyserling, Sitzuiigsber. Isis, Dresden, 1863, p. 95. 

 Recorded by McCook from New Mexico; one specimen collected 

 by Prof. Townsend, and one each from Mesilla Park and Ruidoso 

 creek. 



Epeira nephiloides CamT)ridge. 



Epeira lu'p/iiloides Cambridge, Biol. Cent.-Amer. Arach.-Araa., I, p. 32 



(1890). 



Dr. Marx records a specimen from Fort Canby. 



Epeira gemma McCook. 



Epeira gemma IMcCook, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888, p. 193. 

 A female from Rio Ruidoso, 200 feet above first Ruidoso camp; 

 a large female from East Las Vegas. 



Epeira trifolium Hentz. 



Epeira trifolium Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., V, p. 471 (1847). 

 Several from top of ridge near Eagle creek, White Mountains, 

 August, September. 

 Epeira moesta Keyserling. 



Epeira mmsta Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., IV, p. 108 (1892). 

 Dr. Marx had a specimen from New Mexico, without more 

 definite locality. 



THOMISID^. 

 Xysticus bicuspis Keyserling. 



Xi/sticus bieuspis Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1887, p. 478. 



One male from Dripping Spriftgs, Organ Mountains, and a 



female from Las Graces, which probably belongs to the male. The 



epigynum consists of a simple transverse elliptical cavity without 



any indentation. 



Xysticus montanensis Keyserling. 



Xysticus montanensis Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1887, 



p. 479. 

 Xysticus pulverulentus Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., IX, p. 417, 1894. 



One female from Beulah; it may possibly be a different species, 

 but the differences are so slight that, in the absence of males, I 

 refer it to this species. The epigynum has the same general shape, 

 but is longer. 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF , [NoV. , 



Xysticus emertoni Keyscrliiif?. 



Xi/sticus emertoni Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., I, Latr., j). 39 (1880). 

 Xysticus elegans Keyserling, ibid., p. 31. 



A female from Beulah and a male from Las Vegas Hot Springs 



appear to belong here. The male is like males from New England, 



which both Emerton and myself consider X. elegans. The female 



is not, however, so certain. 



Xysticus cunctator Tliorell. 



Xysticus cunctator Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 2, 



p. 495 (1877). 

 Xysticus quiaquepanctatus Keyserling, Die .Spinn. Amer., I, Latr., p. 



12 (18::i0). 



Several specimens from Albuquerque (Soltau), and Beulah and 

 Mesilla Park (Cockerell). This gives the species a vertical 

 range from 3,800 feet to 8,000 feet. 



Xysticus gulosus Koyserlius. 



Xysticus gulosus Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., I, Latr., p. 43 (1880) 

 One young female from summit of range between the Pecos and 

 Sapello rivers, August (Cockerell); adult female from Las Vegas, 

 February. ^ 



Coriaracline versicolor Keyserling. 



Co riarachiie versicolor Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., I, p. 53 (1880) 

 An immature male from Mesilla. 



Misumena oblonga Keyserling 



Miswmeuii oblonga Keyserling, DieSpiun. Amer., I, Latr., p. 79 (1880). 

 One female from Mesilla Park. 



Misumena vatia (Clerk). 



Araneus vatia Clerk, Sven. Spindlar, p. 128 (1757). 

 A few from top of ridge near Eagle creek, White Mountains, 

 August and September; also from Eagle creek camp. 



Misumena ^\>- 



Three immature specimens of a species new to the United States, 

 but may be young of some Mexican form. It has the anterior legs 

 evenly sprinkled with red dots, and many similar dots on cephalo- 

 thorax and dorsum of abdomen ; the cephalothorax has a dark 

 stripe on each side. 



Taken in White Mountains, one-half mile below forks, August 6, 

 sweeping ; another, nearly adult, from one-half mile below first 

 Ruidoso camp, August 4, by sweeping. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



Ebo mezioana Banks. 



BJbo mexicaaa Banks, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci., 3d Ser., Zool., Vol. I, p. 

 265 (1898). 



Several sj^ecimeas from Mesilla Park, January. Among them 

 is the male, not previously known; it is a little smaller than the 

 female, but marked like it. Previously recorded only from Her- 

 mosillo, Mex., but I have some specimens from El Paso, Tex. 



Thanatus coloradensis KcysLTlin.u:. 



Thanatus coloradensis Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., I, La'terigradse, 

 p. 206 (1880). 



A pair from Las Cruces (Townsend). Readily separated from 

 T. 7'ubicundm by the fact that the eyes of the anterior row are of 

 equal size; in the latter species the side eyes are much larger than 

 the median ones. 



Thanatus rubicundus Keyscrlius. 



Thanatus rubicundus Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., I, p. 204 (1880). 

 Two specimens from Beulah. 



Tibellus duttoni (Heutz). 



Thomisua duttoni Hentz, Jour. Best. See. N". H., V., p. 488 (1846). 

 Several specimens from Albuquerque (Soltau),'"ancl^Mesilla Park 

 and Beulah (Cockerell) ; young from Las Vegas. 



PMlodromus alaskensis Keyserling. 



Philodromus alaskensis Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1883, 

 p. 674. 



An immature specimen from Las Vegas (Cockerell). 



Philodromus spectabilis Keyserling. 



Philodromus spectabilis Keyserling, Die Spinn. Amer., I, p. 210 (1880). 

 ^ Several specimens, mostly immature, from Mesilla Park, in 

 January. 



Philodromus inquisitor Thorell. 



Philodromus inquisitor Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, 2, 

 p. 502 (1877). 



One female from top of Las Vegas range, 11,000 feet, last week 

 in June. 



SPARASSID^. 

 Olios fasoiculatus Simon.' 



Olios fasciculatus ^imoxi, Act. Soc.Linn. Bord., XXXIV, p. 307 (1880). 

 Olios giganteus Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1883, p. 681. 



xin immature specimen from La Cueva, Organ Mountains, Sep- 

 tember. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



Olios abnormis Keyserling. 



Olios ahnormis Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. "Wien, 1883, p. 679. 

 The species was described from Santa Fe, N. M. 



Olios concolor Keyserling. 



Olios concolor Keyserling Verli. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1883, p. 682. 

 This species was described from Pimta del Aqua, N. M. 



OTENID^. 



Ctenus hibernalis Hentz. 



Ctemis hibernalis Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. X. H., IV, p. 393 (1843). 

 This is recorded from New Mexico in Dr. Marx's Catalogue. 



LYCOSID^. 

 Lycosa helluo Walckenaer. 



Lycosu helluo Walckenaer, Ins. Apt., I, p. 337 (1837). 



Lycosa babingtoni Blackwall, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 30, 



(1846). 

 Lycosa nidcola Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., VI, 482 (1885). 



One female and several young from Albuquerque; apparently 

 identical with Eastern specimens. 



Lycosa modesta (Thorell). 



Tarentula modesta Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Saw. Terr, III, No. 2, 

 p. 520 (1877). 



Several specimens from Beulah. 



Lycosa coloradensis Banks. 



Lycosa coloradensis Banks, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 1894, p. 50. 

 Two specimens from Las Cruces, not quite adult. 



Lycosa e^p 



Two immature specimens from Las Vegas, limestone ledges by 

 Gallinas river. The cephalothorax is dark brown, with three 

 pale stripes, the median the broadest, and of nearl}^ equal width 

 from eye-region to tip; sternum dark; coxse pale, legs more or 

 less marmorate above with brown, the hind tibia broadly bauded 

 at base and tip with black; abdomen discolored. 



Lyoosa caroliniensis Ilentz. 



Lycosa caroliniensis Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc, Nat. Hist., IV, p. 230 

 "(1843). 



One adult male, fully colored, from Eagle creek canon, AVhite 

 Mountains, August 15; under a log. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



Troohosa parva Banks. 



Trochosa parvn Banks, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc., 1894, p. 52. 



Several examples from Albuquerque (Soltau), Beulah 

 (Cockerell), aud Eagle creek camp, White Mountains, third week 

 in August. 

 Trochosa cmerea (Fabricius). 



Araneus cinereus Fabricius, Entom. Syst. II, p. 42:5 (1793). 



A female from Las Cruces, September 2; at light. 

 Trochosa sp. 



One female of a pale species from Albuquerque. It is appar- 

 ently new, but does not show any marked characters in this sex. 



Pardosa glacialis (TlioroU). 



Lycom glacialis Thorell, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forli., 1872, p. 159. 

 Lycosa concinna Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 2, 

 p» 506 (1877). 



One male and several young from Albuquerque, aud adults 



from summit of range between the Pecos and Sapello rivers, 



August, July. 



Pardosa sternalis (Thorell). 



Lycosa sternalis Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 2, p. 



504 (1877). 

 Pardosa luteola Emerton, Traus. Conn. Acad., IX, p. 427, 1894. 



One male from the White Mountains. 



OXYOPID^J. 

 Oxyopes pictipes n. sp. 



Cephalothorax uniform gray-brown on sides and in front, eye- 

 region black, above a broad pale area, broader in front than 

 behind, with a narrow median extension forward to the eyes, and 

 each side at base of pars cephalica is a short extension, in front 

 on the clypeus is a small median pale spot; mandibles dark brown ; 

 palpi pale, banded with black; legs pale, a longitudinal black 

 line beneath on the femora of anterior pairs, apical halves of all 

 femora mostly black, patellae mostly black, bands on middle aud 

 apex of tibiae, and on base, middle and apex of metatarsi, black. 

 Sternum pifle ; coxae dark ; venter mostly black ; dorsum of abdo- 

 men pale, nearly interrupted beyond middle by an extension 

 upward of the black sides. Head of the cephalothorax rather 

 high, sloping off gradually behind. Posterior eye- row procurved; 

 P. M.E. about twice their diameter apart and fully as far from 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



the e<jual P.iS. E. ; eyes of second row larger than P.M.E., 

 about twice their diameter apart, closer to the P.S.E. ; eyes of 

 first row very small, and directly below the second row. Abdo- 

 men rather short, and acute at tip. Legs of moderate length. 



Length 7 mm. 



One specimen from Albuquerque (Soltau). 

 Hamalatiwa grisea Keyscrling. 



Hmnalatiwa grisea Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, 1887, p. 458. 



Dr. Marx determined this in the material Prof. Townsend sent 

 him. 



ATTIDJE. 

 Phidippus opifex McCook. 



Phklippus opifex McCook, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1878, p. 276. 

 One male from Las Graces. Parncenu.s (?) grv^em Peckham, 

 recently described from the same locality, is probably this species. 

 Phidippus bicolor Keyserling. 



Phidippus bicolor Keyserling, Verb, zool.-bot. Ges. Wieo, 1884, p. 496. 

 Phidippus ardens Peckham, Trans, Wise. Acad. Sci., XIII, 288 (1901). 

 Phidijypus ealifornicus Peckhaiu, ibid., p. 289. 



A few specimens from Las Cruces, September 6; La Cueva, 

 August; Fillmore Caiion (near the falls), Organ Mountains; 

 White Mountains, September 11; and limestone ledges by Gallinas 

 river near Las Vegas. I have also seen the species from Arizona 

 (Yuma). Peckham describes the sexes as separate species, although 

 noting the possibility of their identity. Keyserling' s specimen 

 came from Utah. 



Phidippus comatus Peckham. 



Phidippus comatus Peckbaru, Trans. Wise. Acad. Sci., XIII, p. 291 

 (1901). 



Described from Las Vegas. 

 Phidippus tyrellii iVckham. 



Phidippus tyrellii Peckbani, Trans. Wise. Acad. Sci., XIII, 296 (1901). 



A few specimens from Beulah, August, and Eagle creek. White 

 Mountains. A very pretty species in the male sex. I also have 

 it from Bear, Idaho. 

 Dendryphantes ootavus (Hcntz). 



Attus oetmuH Hentz, Jour. Best. Soc. X. H., V, p. 365 (1846). 



Several specimens from Las Cruces (Cockerell) and first Ruidoso 

 camp. White Mountains, latter half of July. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



Dendryphantes nubilus (Hcntz). 



Attus nuhihis Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., V, p. 358 (1846). 

 Several examples from under bands on apple and pear trees at 

 Mesilla Park, January (Cockerell). The bands were those which 

 had been put on to catch the larvse of the Codling Moth, 



Dendryphantes vitis Cockerell. 



Dendriiphantes vitis Cockerell, The Entomologist, 1894, p. 207. 

 Described from Las Cruces, April ; also occurs at Mesilla Park, 

 under bands on apple and pear trees (Cockerell). 



Philaeus rimator (Walckenaer). 



Attus rimator Walckenaer, Ins. Apteres, I, p. 446 (1837). 

 F/iidippus auctus Koch, Die Arachn., XIII, p. 148, 1845. 



One female on Larrea at Mesilla Park, January 22. 



Sadala distincta Peckham. 



Sadala distincta Peckham, Trans. Wise. Acad., VII, p. 53 (1888). 

 Recorded from New Mexico in Dr. Marx's Catalogue; described 

 from Mexico. 



Plexippus paykulli ( And. ct Sav.). 



Attus paykulli Audouin et Savigny, Descrii). Egypte, XXII, p. 172 



(1827). 



I have seen a few specimens from New Mexico, Avithout definite 

 locality. 



Marptusa californica Peckham. 



Marptusa californica Peckham, Trans. Wise. Acad., VII, p. 81 (1888). 



Young specimens from Mesilla Park (Cockerell), and also from 

 Prof. Townsend. 



loius neomexicanus n- ^P- 



Cephalothorax reddish, eyes on a black band, two indisiinct dark 

 spots in middle of eye-region, a white stripe each side below eye- 

 region and extending backwaixl, lower sides black, some golden 

 hairs around the anterior eyes; mandibles reddish; sternum red- 

 brown; femora red-brown, rest of legs clear pale yellow, except 

 the patella, tibia and metatarsus of leg I, which are red-brown 

 like the femora; abdomen reddish brown above, with faint indica- 

 tions of a few black spots, the sides of the abdomen are distinctly 

 white, the venter nearly black, spinnerets black. Cephalothorax 

 low and rather long ; the eye-region scarcely as broad behind as 

 in front, eyes of second row rather closer to laterals of first row 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



tliau to third row; the autcrior row is curverl, the top of laterals 

 being even with top of median eyes, the latter are very large, 

 close together and close to the anterior margin, so that the clypeus 

 is extremely narrow. The mandibles are small and vertical; leg I 

 much thickened, tibia and metatarsus T with two pairs of spines 

 below; tibia III with a spine near base below, and a pair at tip; 

 tibia IV with one at tip; metatarsi III and IV with several spines 

 grouped at tip. Anterior coxjb separated by more than Avidth of 

 lip, hind coxje nearly touching, the sternum much longer than 

 broad. Abdomen about once and two-thirds as long as broad. 

 The tibia of male palpus has a stout curved hook on outer tip; the 

 palpal organ is tipped with three short black stylets, all of them 

 only visible directly from below. 



Length c? 3.8 mm. 



One male from Beulah, 8,000 feet (Cockerell). 



Icius peckhamae Cockerell. 



Ictus peckhaina; Cockerell, Can. Entom., 1897, p. 233. 

 Several specimens from Mesilla Park. It is often found on fruit 

 trees in the orchards. 



Icius similis Banks. 



Icius similis Banks, Can. Entom., 1895, p. 100. 



^ Some immature examples from under bauds on apple and pear 

 trees, Mesilla Park (Cockerell). 



Icius piraticus IVckbam. 



Icius piraticus Peckham, Trans. Wise. Acad., VII, p. 49 (1888). 



One male from San Augustine (Cockerell). 

 Fuentes vittata n- sp. 



Cephalothorax blackish in eye-region and on sides, red-brown in 

 thoracic part; sparsely clothed with white hair, and longer black 

 ones; clypeus densely clothed with hair; many long black hairs 

 above first row of eyes ; dorsum of abdomen brown, rather 

 mottled, with a whitish tapering stripe from base to tip, its sides 

 ragged but distinct; on lower posterior sides a few pale oblique 

 spots; venter pale brown; mandibles and sternum red-brown; leg 

 I mostly red-ljrown, metatarsi and tarsi paler, other legs pale 

 yellowish, all banded, especially above with blackish; these bands 

 principally at tips of femora, middle of patellre, base and middle 

 of tibiaj and base and tip of metatarsi. Cephalothorax rather 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 591 



long and flat ; first eye-row like that of F. pertinax, the second, 

 however, is full as near to the dorsal as to lateral eyes. Legs 

 moderately slender, and well spincd; metatarsi III and IV spined 

 along their length; leg 1 much enlarged, except the metatarsi and 

 tarsi; three pairs of spines under tihia I, two paii's under metatar- 

 sus I; tibia and patella I rather more hairy than the other joints; 

 coxa) I separated by width of lip. Abdomen nearly twice as long 

 as broad, tapering behind, somewhat depressed. The epigynum 

 shows a broad tapering cavity, limited behind by two approaching 

 corneous pieces, leaving a median emarginatiou. 



Length 6 mm. 



Two females from Albuquerque (Soltau). Readily known 

 from our two other species by its coloration as well as the structure 

 of the vulva. 



Pellenes oregonense Peckham. 



Habrocestum oregoneiise'Peckh^m, Trans. "Wise. Acad., VII, 188S, p. 66. 



One male from Las Vegas Hot Springs. It is much rubbed, 

 but the male palpus agrees with Peckham' s figure. 



Pellenes hirsutum Peckham. 



Habrocestum hirsutuui, Peckham, Trans, Wise. Aead., VII, p. 64, 



(1888). 



Prof. Peckham so named a specimen sent him by Prof. Town- 

 send from Las Cruces. 



Pellenes cockerelli n. sp. 



Cephalothorax above black, with black hair, a narrow white 

 stripe each side arising above the lateral eyes and running just 

 below the dorsal eyes back and then down to the hind margin, 

 below this is a black stripe, and the lower sides are clothed with 

 white hair; between the M.E. and on the anterior part of the 

 eye-region is a median white line ; the male shows a more distinct 

 pale V-mark connecting the dorsal eyes; clypeus with white hair; 

 mandibles reddish, with some white hair on basal part; all legs 

 pale in both sexes, dotted and mottled with dark brown, more 

 densely so on the hind pairs, all with black hairs and white scales ; 

 patella I of male paler than the tibia, patella III not modified ; 

 male palpus short, patella and base of tibia very pale, beyond 

 very dark. Abdomen gray above and on the sides, clothed with 

 white hair, with two broad black submedian stripes from base to 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



tip, iu the male broader and nearly connected behind, in the 

 female interrupted behind by a prominent oblique white mark on 

 each side; venter dark, with two pale submedian lines on basal 

 part. 



Length 9 7 mm. ; c? 5 mm. 



One pair from top of Las Ve^as range, 11,000 feet; last week 

 in June. 

 Pellenes klauserii Pcckhiim. 



PelkneH khinserU Y&c^h&m, Bull. Wise. N. H. Soc., Oct., 1900, i p. 216. 



Peckham describes this from two males from New Me.^lco, 

 without more definite locality. The figure of the palpus looks 

 nuich like that of P. cockerelll, but the description does not apply. 

 Pellenes birgei I'rckham. 



Pellenes birgei Peckbam, Bull. Wise. N. H. Soc., Oct., 1900, p. 217. 



Described from one male from Mesilla Park. 

 Pellenes politus Peckham. 



Pelle7ies polUus Peckham, Bull Wise. N. H. Soc, Oct., 1900, p. 223. 



Described from two females from New Mexico, without more 

 definite locality; quite probably they are females of P. klauserii. 

 Pellenes cognatus I'ockham. 



Pellenes cognatus Peckham, Bull, Wise. N. H. Soc., Oct., 1900, p. 224. 



Peckham records one female from New Mexico. 

 Pellenes sp. 



A male, one moult from maturity, from Ruidoso creek, one-half 

 mile below forks, August 6, sweeping. It has black legs, with 

 the bases of all femora pale; the palpi pale, with a large black 

 spot on the patella; the abdomen is black, with a few small white 

 spots. 



Sassacus popenoei Peckham. 



Sassacus papenhmi Peckham, Occ. Pap. Wise. N. H. Soc., Vol. II, 

 No. 3, p. 177 (1895). 



Two young specimens; one from Prof. Townsend, the other 

 vmder bands on apple and pear trees, Mesilla Park (Cockerell). 

 Homalattus cyaneus (llentz). 



Attus cyaneus Hentz, Jour. Bost. Soc. N. H., V, p. 3G5 (1846). 



One from Mesilla Park, January 23, on Larrea (Cockerell). 



' Dated October, 1900, but not distributed till July, 1901 ; paper not com- 

 pleted till early iu 1901. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



PHALANGIDA. 



Homolophus biceps (Thorell). 



Mitopns biceps Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 2, p. 525 

 (1877). 



Several specimens from Beulah, Eagle creek, White Mountains, 

 and ridge between Sapello and Pecos rivers, 11,000 feet. This is 

 a common species in Colorado. In New Mexico it appears to 

 belong to the Canadian and Hudsonian zones. 



Trachyrhinus marmoratus Biinks. 



Trachyrhi/ius marmoratus Banks, Jour. N. Y. Entom. Soc, 1894, p. 145. 

 Described from Santa Fe; also found at Las Cruces, September 

 (Cockerell). 



Liobunum townsendi Weed. 



Liobunum totcnsendi Weed, Amer. Nat., 1893, p. 295. 



Described from Las Cruces (Townsend). Specimens have been 

 examined from Las Cruces, Beulah, and various places in the 

 White Mountains, some under logs and rocks, July, August and 

 September. By far the most abundant Fhalangid. 



Taracus packardi Simon. 



2'aracus p«c'^•a?'fZ^ Simon, C. R. Soc. Ent. Belg., 1879, p. Lxxiv. 

 A pair from Beulah (Cockerell). Described from Colorado, but 

 not taken by recent collectors. It is one of the rarest and most 

 interesting of our " daddy-long-legs." 



Phalangium cinereum Wood. 



Phalangium cinereuui Wood, Comm. Es.se.x. Inst., VI, p. 25 C18G8). 

 One specimen from Raton, Colfax county (Cockerell). Not 

 previously known from the West; a common species in the extreme 

 northeastern States. The specimen was taken on the railroad track 

 at Raton station, and may possibly have been introduced with 

 freight in some way. 



Sclerobunus robustus (Packard). 



Scotolemon robustus Packard, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, p. 164, 



(1877). 



Specimens come from Beulah (Cockerell), from Eagle creek 

 camp, White Mountains, August 21, in dead, rotten, wet pine log, 

 and ridge of Eagle creek camp. White Mountains, under log, 

 August. It belongs to the Canadian zone, both in New Mexico 

 and Colorado. 

 38 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



PSEUDOSCORPIONIDA. 



Chelanops validus Banks. 



Chclanops vnlidus Banks, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 1895, p. 7. 

 Two specimens from Mesilla. They are larger, but differ little 

 in structure from the Lake Tahoe specimens. 



Chelanops grossus Banks. 



Chelanops (ji'ossns, Banks, Can. Eutom. 1893, p. 65. 

 Two specimens from Eagle Creek, White Mountains ; the fingers 

 are a trifle longer than in Colorado specimens. 



Chelifer scabrisculis simoa. 



Chi-lifer scabrisculis Simon, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, 187rt, p. 154. 

 Chclifer degeneratus Balzan, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, 1891, p. 532. 



Three specimens from Eagle creek, White Mountains; they are 

 like specimens that I have seen from Utah. 



SOORPIONIDA. 



Vejovis punctipalpi Wood. 



Vejovis punctipalpi Wood, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad.,1803, p. 109. 

 One from Mesilla, June, and a young one from La Cueva, 

 Organ Mountains, xVugust 30, under a rock. 



Centrurus carolinianus (Beau vols). 



Scorpio carolmianus Beanv., Ins. rec. Afr. Amer., p. 190, 1S05. 

 One immature specimen from Las Vegas (Cockerell). 



SOLPUGIDA. 

 Eremobates sulphurea (Simon). 



Datames stilphiirea Simon, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, 1879, p. 142. 

 One male from San Augustine, eastern base of Organ Moun- 

 tains. Two females, one from Las Cruces, September 3, the other 

 from Las Vegas, June 29, 1899 (W. Porter and M. D. Cockerell). 



Eremobates californicus (Simon). 



JJatamcs californica Simon, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, 1879, p. 143. 

 One male from Mesilla valley is probably this species. 



Eremobates pallipes (Say). 



Oalcodes pallipes Say, Long's Exped. Rocky Mts., Philad., 1823, 

 Vol. II. 



One specimen from Aztec, San Juan county, October (C. A. 



Grommet), appears to be this species. 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. o95 



Ammotreoha peninsulana (Banks). 



Clcobis jx'/iinsfildna Banks, I'roc. Calif. Acad. Sci. (3), Zool., I, 290, 



1898. 



One specimen from La Cueva, Organ Mountains, September 2, 

 at light in tent running over the blanket ; another from Las 

 Vegas Hot Springs, January. 



ACARINA. 

 Trombidium gemmosum n. sp. 



Body above densely clothed with short, thick, but scarcely 

 clavate, hairs; below with short, stiff, pointed bristles ; legs and 

 palpi with fine slender hairs. Body once and one-half as long as 

 broad, broadest in front, plainly constricted near middle above the 

 third legs, the dorsum with several small impressed spots. Legs 

 very short; leg I about as long as width of body, last joint but little 

 swollen, no longer than preceding joint; fourth legs not reaching 

 beyond tip of body. Palpi short; second joint much swollen 

 above, below with long hairs; third rather longer than broad and 

 plainly narrower at tip; fourth quite long, ending in a long stout 

 claw; fifth, or thumb, clavate, hardly reaching beyond the claw, 

 with short, simple hairs. Color red. 



Length 2.4 mm. 



Several specimens from Las Vegas in January (Cockerell), one 

 from Eagle creek, White Mountains (Towusend). Closely related 

 to T. smbruin, but with shorter legs,, and shorter terminal joint to 

 leg I. Mr. Cockerell states that this species is extremely abundant 

 at Las Vegas. 



Trombidium magnificum Le Conte. 



Trombidium magnificum Le Conte, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., 1853, 

 p. 145. 



I have seen specimens from several parts of southern New 

 Mexico. 



Rhyncholophus sr>. 



Several specimens from Beulah. Very similar to R. simjilex, 

 but, I think, different. 



Tetranychus bimaculatus Harvey. 



Tetrani/chxs bimaculatus Harvey, Kept. Me. Exp. Sta., f. 1892 (1893), 

 p. 133. 



Specimens from Mesilla Park on violet leaves (in cultivation) 

 appear to belong to this common species. They were found by 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Mr, Fabian Garcia, and the species was doubtless imported with 

 the violets. 



Tetranychus desertorum Banks, 



TetranychuK desertorum Banks, Bull No. 8, Tecb. Ser., Div. Entom., 

 U. S. Depfe. Agric, p. 76 (1900). 



Described from specimens from Mesilla Park on Larrea tn'den- 

 tata and Phacelia crenulata. The latter, at least, were probably 

 collected by Prof. J. D. Tinsley. Mr. Cockerell says the Phacelia 

 was doubtless P. intermedia Wooton, until recently confused with 

 P. crenulata. 



Bryobia pratensis (iarman. 



Bryobia pratensis Garman, 14th Rept. State Entom. Ill, p. 73 (1885). 



Prof. Cockerell has seen it from various parts of the Territory — 

 Mesilla, Mimbres, etc. 



Argas saucliezi Neumann. 



Argas sanchezi Neumann, Mem. Soc. Zool. France, 1896, p. 16. 

 I have seen specimens from Deming. 

 Ixodes diversifossus Neumann. 



Ixodes divei'sifossus i^eumann, Mem. Soc. Zool. Fiance, 1899, p. 136. 



Described from two specimens taken from Procyon lotor from 

 New Mexico ; I have not seen it. 



Dermacentor reticulatus (Fabricius). 



Acarus reticulatus Fabricius, Ent. Syst., IV, p. 428, 1794. 



Recorded by Neumann from the Territory; it is moderately com- 

 mon in the Western States. 



BoopMlus anuulatus Say. 



Ixodes aiinulatus Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbilad., II, 1821, p. 75. 

 Ixodes bovis Riley, Spec. Kept. U. S. Dept. Agric, 1869. 



Neumann records the well-known cattle-tick from New Mexico. 

 Mr. Cockerell has not met with it. 



Laelaps «!>• 



An undescribed species was taken under a rock at Las Vegas, 

 April 7, in company with Lasius interjectus. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXIII. 



Fig. 1. — Pachylomerus modesius, palpus. 



Fig. 2. — Prosthesima cockerelli. vulva. 



Fig. 3. — Prosthesima cockerelli, \yA\^ns. 



Fig. 4. — Onaphosa hirsutipes, vulva. 



Fig. 5. — Thargalia modesta, vulva. 



Fig. 6. — Meriola inornata, vulva. 



Fig. 7. — Tmeticus perplexus, palpus. 



Fig. 8. — Microneta soltaui, palpus. 



Fig. 9. — Letliia trivittata, vulva. 



Fig. 10. — LetJiia trivittata, palpus. 



Fig. 11. — Ceratinella occidcntnUs, venter. 



Fig. 12. — Ceratinella occldentalis, vulva. 



Fig. 13. — Microneta soltaui, vulva. 



Fig. 14. — Tmeticus brevipalpus, palpus. 



Fig. 15. — Xysticus bicuspis, palpus and vulva. 



Fig. 16. — hillenes cockerelli, palpus. 



Fig. 17. — Pelhnes cockerelli, vulva. 



Fig. 18. — Phidippus tyrelli, palpus. 



Fig. 19. — Xysticus montanensis, vulva. 



Fig. 20. — Fuentes vittata, vulva. 



Fig. 21. — Icius neomexicanus, palpus. 



Fig. 23. — Oayenna marginalis, vulva. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. , 



A PECULIAR CONDITION OF (EDOGONIUM. 

 BY IDA A. KELLER. 



For several years I have kept a jar of water at my window, in 

 which I have found interesting things at different times. Last fall 

 there was a luxuriant growth of a dense green mat, which turned 

 out to be a species of (Edogonimn. Later on, as the color gradu- 

 ally disappeared, I took for granted that the plant was about to die, 

 and gave it no further attention. The next time I happened to 

 observe the jar the alga seemed to have been replaced by a heavy 

 growth of the mycelium of some fungus. This remained in a 

 thriving condition all winter, and proved on examination, to my 

 great surprise, not to be a fungus at all, but the Q^dogonium 

 which had lost its chlorophyll. In all other respects the alga Avas 

 apparently in a perfectly healthy condition, its filaments Avere 

 rooted fast to pieces of rock which were in the bottom of the jar, 

 the cells showed absolutely no signs of decomposition — further- 

 more, they were remarkably well packed with granules which 

 turned out to be starch. 



This phenomenon seemed to me an unusual one. I know of no 

 alga which continues to live after it loses its chlorophyll, nor can 

 I recall any parallel case among the higher plants — a water-plant 

 which ceases its assimilating activity, full of the most attractive 

 bait for bacteria, in nowise protected from them, and yet of suffi- 

 cient vitality to withstand all attacks of these ever-present enemies. 



The condition of the plant in May may be summed up as fol- 

 lows: The filaments are rooted to pieces of rock. To the naked 

 eye they seem perfectly colorless and form a dense tuft of white 

 threads. Fig. 1 represents a typical case. It shows absolutely no 

 sign of chlorophyll and is full of starch. 



In fig. 2 I have represented what may be regarded as a transi- 

 tion stage. It is also full of starch, but the cell has a faint green- 

 ish tinge. It is impossible to say whether the plant is just regain- 

 ing its chlorophyll or whether it is just losing it. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENf'ES OF PHrLADELPHIA. 



599 



The condition of a dead cell is represented in fig. -S. Here the 

 protoplasm is contracted, and the starch granules are lumped 

 together in the centre of the cells, in striking contrast to the case 

 represented in fig. 1, 



n 



s 



UJ 



El 



n 



Microscopic examination further showed that green threads were 

 interspersed here and there among these white filaments ; one of 

 these is shown in fig. 4, the green color being indicated by shading. 

 I regret not having made the examination sooner, since it would 

 thea have been possible for me to say whether or not the green 

 color is newly acquired. It seems quite probable that some of the 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. 



threads remained green over the winter, but, being few, they were 

 not noticeable to the naked eye. 



The quantity of starch in the bleached cells varied considerably. 

 The extreme condition, on the one hand, where the cells were 

 quite full of starch, as in fig. 1, is markedly different from the 

 rather starved condition of figs. 5 and 6. In the latter cases the 

 cells are doubtless still alive, but they contain comparatively little 

 starch and great vacuoles. The vacuoles are well brought out on 

 treating the cells with iodine (fig. 6). 



The plant, as a whole, is certainly in a living and, I believe, 

 actively growing condition, and it looks as though it were i*egaining 

 its normal activity. Extremes and transitions, as regard the 

 quantity of chlorophyll present, can easily be observed. Com- 

 parisons of figs. 1, 7, 9 and 2 will illustrate this point. Fig. 1 

 shows the perfectly bleached cell, figs. 7 and 9 show cells contain- 

 ing a little chlorophyll, while fig. 4 repressats the deep green 

 cell, which consists of one large mass of connected chromatophores. 

 Furthermore, such cases as that of fig. 2, which I mentioned above, 

 were to be found where the whole cell was colored, but the green 

 tinge a very faint one. 



The filaments come singly or in groups from basal cells (figs. 8, 

 9. and 10). In many cases these basal cells are green, while the 

 remainder of the filament may be either green or bleached. Fig. 

 9 represents a case where the basal cell is white. 



The normal state of affairs is the following: The vegetative 

 condition finally results in the formation of oogonia. These are 

 the only portions of the plant which survive the winter, and are 

 protected from cold and moisture by their thick cell walls.* In 

 this instance the oogonia Avere not formed, and the food which the 

 plant had stored up for this normal function remained in the form 

 of starch. Naturally it will be of interest to find out if the plant 

 will again resume its assimilating activity. It would also be of 

 interest to determine if the plant behave similarly out of doors, 

 which it might well do under the conditions of a mild winter or in 

 protected places. At all events, the fact that the plant continues 

 to live in its present ghostlike condition seems an interesting reve- 

 lation, so far as the physiology of algie is concerned. 



In Leunis' Synopsis der Botanik^ I found the following state- 



^ Luerssen, Orundzuge der Botanik, p. 191. 



' Leiinis, Synopsis der Botanik, Bd. Ill, pp. 163, 164. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 'iOl 



ment, which seems of interest in this connection. Of GEdogonium 

 capillare this author says : " It is a form frequent in stagnant waters, 

 and forms when the water disajipears a felt-like mass, the so-called 

 'Meteor Papier' (Meteor Paper). Such masses are also found 

 on meadQws which have been submerged for some time, the so- 

 called Wiesentuch, Wiesenleder (meadow cloth, meadow leather). 

 The same formations have been repeatedly found on meadows 

 along the River Oder after floods and are called Oder Haut (Oder 

 skin). A piece which was examined in 1736 by Ehrenberg, and 

 one observed by Cohen in 1849, consisted principally of Clado- 

 phora /raeto and diatoms. " In commenting on this phenomenon 

 Leuuis makes the following statement : " This comparatively rare 

 formation is the result of a number of conditions — appearance of 

 vigorous algoid growth, rapid evaporation of water in consequence 

 of sunshine and high temperature, and a soil which does not long 

 retain its moisture, so that the Confervte are not decomposed." 



The condition described by Leunis resembles the one I have just 

 observed in the fact that in both cases the alga is bleached and not 

 decomposed. It differs from it, however, in the fact that in drying 

 all activity is forced to cease, while the plant under consideration 

 continues its existence in its normal medium ; and it is this, together 

 with the fact that decomposition does not set in, which makes this 

 condition of CEdogonium a very remarkable one. 




602 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



A NEW SPECIES OF CLAVILITHES FROM THE EOCENE OF TEXAS. 



BY C. W. JOHNSON AND A. W. GEABAU. 



Clavilithes chamberlami n. sp. 



The spire of this species is long and slender, as in C. henne- 

 dyanus Harr., with which the early whorls of the shell agree 

 pretty well. Only a portion of the protoconch has been observed, 

 but it is apparently of the same character as that of the American 

 species of this genus generally, unless more slender than the 

 normal. The spire contains about seven ribbed whorls; the suture 

 is moderately depressed ; the ribs are swollen near the middle, but 



become obsolete toward the suture; they are at first more than their 

 width apart, but later become broader and the interspaces corre- 

 spondingly narrower. A subsutural band occurs, and is quite 

 strongly marked on the later ribbed whorls, indicating a pro- 

 nounced posterior canal at this stage. 



Spirals on the first five whorls, single, coarser in the centre, but 

 becoming finer toward the sutures; interspiral spaces broader than 

 the spirals. Intercalation of secondary spirals begins on the sixth 

 whorl. On the seventh whorl the ribs become broad and ill 




1901.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. (503 



defined, tending toward obsolescence. Before they have quite dis- 

 appeared, a sutural shelf sloping somewhat outward and bordered by 

 a slightly outward projecting margin appears; this very soon de- 

 velops into a serrated flange. At the same time the whorls become 

 almost smooth, the spirals usually only occurring on the narrowed 

 anterior portion or canal of the body whorl. Length of the adult 

 specimen figure 39 mm., diameter 18 ram. 



This is a parallel species to C. scalaris Lam. of the Paris Basin 

 (Calcaire Grossier) and C. longccvm Sol. of the London Clays 

 (Barton Beds). Compared with C. humerosus variety iexanus 

 Harris it has more ribs on the spii'e, which are more regular and 

 bulging, stronger spirals and the v.'ell -marked serrated flange. It 

 also differs somewhat in outline, the last whorl being broader than 

 the corresponding one of texanus. It differs from its European 

 parallels in many features, chief of which are the protoconch, the 

 long-ribbed spire, the character of the sutural shelf and flange, and 

 other points readily seen on comparison. 



From the Lower Claiboi-nian Eocene, Bald Mound, nine miles 

 southeast of Jewett, Leon county, Tex. 



Type No. 9,409, "Isaac Lea Collection of Eocene Mollusca," 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. This species is 

 respectfully dedicated to Rev. L. T. Chamberlain, D.I)., Curator 

 of the Isaac Lea Collection. 




604 



rROCEEDIXGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



December 3. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D. , in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



A paper entitled " A ]Sew Species of Ophibolus,'' by Arthur 

 Erwin Brown, was presented for publication. 



The death of Herman Strecker, a member, was announced. 



Lodel Creek and Skippack Creek. — Mr. Benjamin Smith 

 Lyman remarked that on October 26, 1901, the Mineralogical 

 and Geological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences made 

 an excursion to Fisher's quarry, some twenty yards south of Lodel 

 creek (on the U. S. Geological Sui'vey's topographical sheet incor- 

 rectly called Landis brook, which is really the name of the next 

 stream to the north). The quarry is near a small highway bridge, 

 one mile northwest of Grater's ford, on the Perkiomen railroad. 

 The rockbeds of the quarry belong to the American New Red, 

 and, as observed in 1889, at the time of the State Geological Sur- 

 vey, show the following section from above downwards: 



Dark red, rather soft shales, about 5 feet. 



Dark dull red, rather hard, thin-leaved shales, with fossil 

 impressions and calcai'eous seams, about 4 " 



In all, about 9 " 



The shales are close withiu the upper limit of the beds marked on 

 the State Geological map of Bucks and Montgomery counties as 

 the Lausdale shales. They dip here 13° N. 30^° W. (true 

 bearing). 



The excursion party was so fortunate as to find a large slab of 

 the stone of irregular shape, about five feet long by three feet wide 

 and perhaps five inches thick, that proved to be particularly rich 

 in interestinir impressions. The whole of one side was covered 

 with unusually perfect ripple marks, of about three-quarters of 

 an inch in amplitude. In spite of the rij)ples, somewhat indistinct 

 traces of two Dinosaur tracks, with three forward-pointing toes, 

 could be discerned, each track about six inches iu extreme length 

 and about thi'ee inches in width. The two tracks are in line, and 

 about twenty inches apart, centre to centre, evidently formed by 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 605 



one animal moving forward. The hinder track seems to have, at 

 a couple of inches in front of it and a little to the right, a small 

 track, as if of the forefoot of the same animal. The forward 

 track is too near the edge of the slab to have that accompaniment. 

 At twenty inches back of the foremost toe-point of the hinder 

 track there appears at the other edge of the slab to be the toe- 

 point of another track, and a couple of inches in front of it per- 

 haps very indistinct traces of the small forefoot. Other less dis- 

 tinct footmarks can be perceived to the left of this principal line 

 of tracks. 



On liftino up the slab, however, it was found that the other side 

 had, in the absence of ripple marks, the cast of a number of other 

 Dinosaur tracks of about the same size, and likewise two or three 

 in succession at the same distance apart, and more distinctly accom- 

 panied by the impression of the small forefoot. In addition there 

 are a number of smaller tracks, about half an inch across, that 

 appear to be the footmarks of Labyriuthodonts. A. few other less 

 perfect impressions of ripple marks, raindrops and footmarks were 

 found by the party in other parts of the quarry. 



At the meeting of the Section on October 28, Messrs. Woolman 

 and Lyman were appointed a Committee to revisit the quarry, and, 

 if possible, send the slab to the Academy for preservation, which 

 was accordingly done on the '2d of November, Mr. Uselma C. 

 Smith kindly aiding in the work. It was found, however, on 

 arriving at the quarr}', that the ripple marks had in great part 

 been broken ofl from the slab by the members of the previous 

 excursion party, and the best of the tracks also removed from the 

 other side. Nevertheless, a number of tracks as well as a consid- 

 erable extent of the ripple marks were still left, and the slab was 

 taken. Another slab of equal surface and like shape was found, 

 and on turning over, proved to be the mate of the other, and to 

 have a complete and perfect cast of the ripple marks, as well as 

 some similar tracks on the other side. The uninjured slab was also 

 taken and sent to the Academy. Mr. Josiah H. Fisher, the 

 owner of the quarry, readily and freely made a gift of the speci- 

 mens, with admirable public spirit. 



A couple of smaller slabs showed very good ripple marking. 

 One of them, of irregular shape, about eleven inches long by nine 

 wide, and half an inch thick, has, on one side, shallow ripple 

 marks of about two and a half inches in amplitude; and, on the 

 other side, ripple marks of about the same dimensions, but sur- 

 mounted by what seem to be smaller ripple marks of about half 

 an inch in amplitude, or perhaps rillmarks: but may possibly be 

 very confused impressions of Dendrophycus. It appears, how- 

 ever, to be an interesting example of more than usually compli- 

 cated ripple marking. The slab has also very perfect worm tracks, 

 and several suu cracks. At the original examination of the 




606 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



quarry, in 1889, all the above-mentioned kinds of impressions were 

 found, except the Dinosaur tracks; and, in addition, impressions 

 of a plant were collected that may be a Baiera. 



The excursion party of October 26 also, on tlie way home, visited 

 a quarry on the roadside, on the southeast side of Skippack creek, 

 about three-eighths of a mile southwest of the main road between 

 CoUegeville and Norristown, near a mill across the creek. The 

 (|uarry is in dark red, hard, shaly sandrock of what is marked on 

 the State Geological map of the two counties as Gwynedd shales, 

 some 900 feet geologically below their top. The dip here is about 

 12° northwesterly. Here a large fossil Cycad leaf was found, 

 about twenty-one inches long by eight inches wide. It is expected 

 that this block will also be brought to the Academy. It may be, 

 as Miss ^Valter suggests, Pterophyllum spatulatiim. 



The party thence proceeded southward to Eagleville, on the top 

 of a hill of the Gwynedd shales. These comparatively hard dark 

 shales all along their outcrop make j^rominent hills, with the lower 

 lands formed on the southeast of them by the softer and in greater 

 part red, but further south gray, Norristown shales, and on the 

 northwest by the likewise softer and almost universally bright red 

 Lansdale shales, succeeded northward by the harder and in great 

 part greenish or blackish Perkasie shales, again with higher hills, 

 and yet further north by the softer red Potlslown shales. This 

 succession of beds of distinct character, with their outcrop of 

 special topographical character extending throughout the two coun- 

 ties, all conforming uniformly to several variations of structure, 

 with corresponding curves in the strike of the beds and everywhere 

 with correspondence in the dips, and with no evidence whatever of 

 any repetitions of the same sets of beds (except near the great 

 Buckingham ISIountain fault), is convincing proof that there is no 

 overthrust fault parallel to the strike that could diminish the 

 apparent total thickness of the beds. Such a fault, indeed, would 

 have to be of wonderful shape, in conformity to a somewhat com- 

 plicated folding of the beds. It is, moreover, in the highest degree 

 improbable that such faults, the result of excessive horizontal pres- 

 sure, with beds of great stiffness and cohesion, necessarily causing 

 extremely steep and overturned dips, could occur in a region of 

 gentle dips and mainly soft beds. 



The foot tracks, ripple marks, raindrop impressions and sun 

 cracks found at Fisher's (piarry, the Cycad leaves and the raindrop 

 impressions at the Skippack quarry, and other impressions and sun 

 cracks at many other points in the New Red of this region, show 

 clearly that the rocks were laid down in an estuary that was 

 shallow through a great part of the process, if not throughout. 

 There must have been submergence to correspond with the accumu- 

 lating beds, and doubtless caused oy their weight upon this portion 

 of the earth's crust. As the sedimentary material has plainly 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



come from both sides of the narrow estuary, the accumulated thick- 

 ness of the beds must have been far greater, perhaps six times 

 greater, than it would have been with equally far-reaching and 

 rapid drainage on the single shore of an ocean where the sediments 

 would be carried three times as far from land. This consideration 

 may make belief in the thoroughly demonstrated great thickness of 

 the New Red in Montgomery county a little easier to those, if any 

 there be, who still fondly cling to the old purely conjectural esti- 

 mates. 



December 10. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D,, in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 

 " Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna, V," by Henry 



A. Pilsbry. 



" Catalogue of the Clausiliid?e of the Japanese Empire," by 



Henry A. Pilsbry. 



December 17. 

 Mr. Charles ^Morris in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



The deaths of William F. Norris, M.D., and Rush S. Huide- 

 koper, M.D., members, were announced. 



December 24. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " On the Common Brown Bats of Peninsular Florida and 

 Southern California," by S. N. Rhoads, 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



" New Land Mollusca of the Japanese Empire," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



" Description of New Helicoid Land Shells from Japan," by 

 G. K. Gude. 



The death of Edward Lewis, a member, was announced. 



December 26. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Cliair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



New Year's Eve (December 31) falHng on Tuesday, the meet- 

 ing, under the By-Laws, was held on the preceding Thursday. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



609 



COCKSCOMB FASCIATION OF PINEAPPLES. 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



A remarkable case of fasciation, probably one of the most strik- 

 iug of that teratologieal couditiou kuowu to botanists, is one 

 recently found by the writer in the pineapple, Ananassa saliva. 

 The fruit of the pineapple plant is a multiple one, formed from 

 many spicately arranged flowers and their bracts consolidated into 

 one mass upon a succulent, fleshy axis. Ordinarily, only a single, 

 conical fruit with its tuft of green, slerile, bract leaves is borne at 

 the summit of the plant, surrounded at the base by the large, 

 leathery, awl-pointed, spirally-arranged, sword-shaped, vegetative 

 leaves. In teratologieal specimens, shipped to Philadelphia from 

 Jamaica and displayed in the windows of prominent fruiterers, 

 several pineapples produced on a single plant were found united 

 bv conireniral growth into a fan-like mass. One of the most 



^^-\- 




^'10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dcc.^ 



Striking of these, presented to the writer by Henry Hallowell & 

 Son, was an almost completely open fan, the individual fruits 

 being arranged in a semicircular manner, as shown in the accom- 

 panying figure, reproduced from a photograph of one of the largest 

 fasciated specimens. These fasciated pineapples, known to the 

 trade as " Freak " or " Cockscomb Pineapples," seem to be not 

 at all uncommon, Henry Hallowell & Son had at least a dozen 

 or more specimens, besides the one presented to the writer. The 

 smallest of these consisted of two united pineapples, and the largest 

 (twenty inches across, twelve inches high) showed the union of a 

 dozen or more. The fasciated fruits in nearly all instances were 

 arranged regularly side by side; in some illustrations, however, 

 one or two fruits crowded out of the fan-shaped mass during growth 

 projected in several directions, so that the combined mass consisted 

 of an irregularly disposed row of united pineapples. A stem, one 

 to two inches in diameter, common to all of the united fruits, was 

 present in all the cases examined. 



Apparently from a count of the more concave, flat side of the 

 monstrosity shown in the plate, there were ten pineapples united 

 together, as outlined by the deep grooves which ran between them. 

 On the other, more convex- face, twelve united masses were 

 discernible, all arising from a common stalk one and a half inches 

 in diameter, with a number of lanceolate, involucral leaves about 

 six to eight inches long at the base of the clustered fruits. A 

 count, however, of the tufts of crown leaves would indicate, if 

 each fruit in the bunch had only one crown tuft, that many more 

 fruits than ten or twelve were aggregated together. The coronal 

 tufts of leaves form a continuous growth over the entire top of 

 the fasciation, as shown in the plate. It was difficult to count 

 the tufts therefore, on account of their massing together, but the 

 most careful count possible under the circumstances gave fifty tufts 

 as the result of the enumeration. It seeiped hardly likely, how- 

 ever, that the fasciated mass consisted of that many fruits, and to 

 decide the matter a section was made through the monstrosity by 

 means of a saw, and such a section showed twenty distinct upward 

 projecting divisions of the fleshy fasciation. Whether each division 

 represented a fruit, it was not possible to determine by the exam- 

 ination. 



The monstrosity, which had a pleasant pineapple aroma, was 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Oil 



succulent, but very fibrous, with many fibres radiating from the 

 common stalk and running to the semicircular summit of the 

 edible mass. The flavor was (juite good, although the specimens 

 tried lacked the juiciness of the finer Ripley pines, and reminded 

 one of the taste of the inferior grades of Cowboy pineapples 

 raised in Jamaica and consumed by the negroes of that island. 



The ripened individual flowers of the fasciated pineapples were 

 apparently normal, consisting of the succulent inferior ovary, succu- 

 lent sepals and fleshy base of the subtending bract. The succulent, 

 diamond-shaped floral masses were flattened laterally, or became 

 mere vestigial structures, wherever they had been pressed together 

 by the union of the pineapples of which the monstrosity was com- 

 posed. 



One is tempted to theorize with these unique specimens taken 

 into consideration, for fasciation appears in plants subjected to 

 conditions of nourishment above the normal, occasionally as a result 

 of disease or injury. Did these factors influence the production of 

 fasciated pineapples in Jamaica ? Who can say! 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



A NEW SPECIES OF OPHIBOLUS FROM WESTERN TEXAS 

 BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



Ophibolus alternus *!> "ov. Plate XXXIV. 



Maxillary teeth 13; mandibular 14-15. Body moderately slen- 

 der; bead distinct, muzzle contracted; eye rather large. Rostral 

 low and broad, barely visible from above; internasals about half 

 tlie length of prefrontals ; frontal a little longer than the suture 

 between parietals, longer than the snout; parietals large, wide in 

 front, narrow behind; nasals 2, the nostril between them; loreal 

 small, longer than high; preocular 1 ; post oculars, 2 on one side, 3 

 on the other; temporals, 2-3 on one .side, 3-4 on the other; upper 

 labials 7, third and fourth in orbit; lower labials 11. Posterior 

 chin shields a little shorter than the anterior, not separated by 

 scales. Scales smooth, with two inconspicuous pits, in 25 rows. 

 Ventrals 217; anal entire; subcaudals 60 pairs. Total length 710 

 mm. (tail 115). 



The ground color is slate gray, crossed on the back, at intervals 

 of 3 to 5 scales, by bands of black which are alternately wider 

 and narrower, the wide ones covering from 2 to 8 scales on the 

 middle of the back, and more or less divided transversely on their 

 centres with scarlet. The narrow bands are about one scale wide 

 and wholly black, occasionally broken through by the ground color. 

 On the neck the bands are narrower and less defined, while the red 

 is more pronounced on the posterior part of the body. There are 

 nineteen red and black bauds on the body, and an equal number 

 of the intermediate black ones. On the tail there are 5 bands, 

 which form quite distinct rings, on the last two of which the red 

 is absent. The head, including the labials, is dark gray with 

 small dark mottlings, not well defined, and a narrow black streak 

 from the postoculars to the angle of the mouth. Ventral surface 

 grayish white, heavily blotched with 1)lack, into which the black 

 portion of the cross bands runs. 



Type, No. 14,977 Academy Coll. From the Davis Mountains, 

 Jeff Davis count v, Texas. Collected bv E. Mevenberg. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



The snake here described was received alive at the Zoological 

 Gardens, on October 22, and came from the same locality and 

 collector as the lately described Coluber subocularis. In propor- 

 lions and scale formula it comes nearest to 0. zonatus Blain. 

 (^ 0. pyrrhomelas Cope), but the head is narrower, the snout 

 more contracted and there are two more rows of scales, while the 

 peculiar disposition of the doi'sal cross bands is quite unlike any 

 Ophibolus previously known. The species is perhaps intermediate 

 between 0. zonatus and 0. leonls Gunth., the type of which came 

 from Nuevo Leon, Mexico. 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC., 



NEW LAND MOLLUSCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Eulota (^gista) aperta v.u-. trachyderma Pils. and Gurte, iiov. 



Resembling E. aperta iu general characters, but smaller, more 

 depressed, less distinctly angular at the perij^hery in front, whorls 

 5^ to 5f ; base a little more widely umbilicate. Surface densely 

 clothed with short, crowded, thread-like cuticular processes, 

 visible only under a lens, and in large part rubbed off of most 

 specimens. Peristome thin, expanded, narrowly reflexed below. 



Alt. 6f, diam. 12 mm. 



Alt. 5, diam 10^ mm. 



Ikoma, Kii. Types No. 82,464, Coll. A. N. S. P, from No. 787 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Eulota (Euhadra) luhuana var. pachya nov. 



A fossil form characterized by the thickness of the large shell, 

 the somewhat swollen latter third of the base, which is also swollen 

 immediately around th6 umbilicus. The peristome is very thick 

 and heavy, especially along the columellar margin. Traces of a 

 reddish band above the periphery, and copious opaque-white streaks 

 and flecks are visible on some specimens. The type measures, alt. 

 23, diam. 46 mm. 



Kikai-ga-shima, Oshiina group, Osumi. Types No. 81,921, 

 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 682 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Eulota luhuana var. nesiotica nov. 



In this race the shell is rather small, comparatively smooth and 

 glossy, with slightly flattened base, passing into the umbilicus in a 

 regular curve, not in the least angular. Umbilicus much smaller 

 than in any other known form of luhuana, rapidly contracting 

 within. Yellow, either uniform or with reddish- brown bands 

 according to the formuhv 00300, 00340, 00345. 



Alt. 22^, diam. 35, diam. of umbilicus 3 mm.; whorls 6^. 



Alt. 20^, diam. 30|, diam. of umbilicus 2§ mm.; whorls 6. 



Tane-ga-shinia, Osumi (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 736). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



The absence of any trace of angulation around the umbilicus, 

 and the small size of the latter, give this race an appearance of 

 distinctness. 



Clausilia ducalis Kobelt. 



This magnificent species was described from a specimen of un- 

 known locality further than the indefiDite " interior of Nippon " 

 which served as habitat for Rein's Japanese collection. The type 

 is described as yellowish horn-colored, and 36 mm. long, 8 wide, 

 the aperture 9 mm. long. Mr, Hirase has lately sent specimens 

 from Miya-mura, in Hida Province, which agree with ducalis in 

 the brilliant gloss and large apex, but have the last two whorls 

 <iark vinaceous-browu, with a yellow sutural border and sprinkled 

 with fine yellow dots; the two next earlier whorls are rather bright 

 yellow, still earlier ones are worn. 



Length 32 J to 34^, diam. 8 mm. 



It is a magnificent species. 



At Kiyomi-mura, Hida, an interesting variety occurs, the 

 shell being longer and narrower, less glossy, the surface more 

 striate, last whorl more cylindric. Color light olivaceous yellow. 



Length 35, diam. 6i mm.; whorls 11|^. 



This race I call var. dorcas. Some specimens are shorter, length 

 28^, diam. 6^ mm. ; whorls 10. 



Truncatella kiusiueusis n- »]>■ 



Shell nearly cylindric, slightly tapering, pale red, composed of 

 4^ Avhorls, the upper one truncate and plugged. Sculpture of 

 strong, regular, nearly straight ribs, about 20 on the last whorl. 

 There is a high, narrow rib behind the outer and basal lips, and 

 a rounded rib or prominence around the umbilical region. Aper- 

 ture oval; the inner lip covered with a heavy callus. 



Alt. 7, diam. 2.6 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 844a). Also Taue-ga- 

 shima (Hirase, No. 811c). 



This is one of the few Old World species of Truncatella in 

 which there is a rib or crest behind the lip. It differs in this 

 respect from T. valida Pfr., which is found in Okinawa or Riukiu 

 Island. The latter is also larger and has more numerous, smaller 

 ribs. 



Tnmeatella Pfelferi 3Iarteus is the only species of the genus 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



hitherto reported from Japau. It was described from a specimen 

 or specimens in the Leyden ]\Iuseum, collected by Siebokl, and 

 bearing the locality " Japau." It has not been figured, but from 

 the description it differs from T. kiusiuensis in being shorter and 

 wider, with the ribs disappearing on the last whorl. No crest or 

 rib behind the lip is mentioned. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 617 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW HELICOID LAND SHELLS FROM JAPAN. 

 BY G. K. GUDE. 



Chloritis (Trichochlorites) pumila n. sp. 



Shell imperforate, depressed, dark coi'neous. Spire flat, apex 

 obtuse, suture iixipressed. Whorls 4:^, convex, increasing slowly 

 at first, the last widening rapidly; very densely covered with very 

 short bristles, arranged in oblique rows. Last whorl scarcely 

 descending in front, iuflated below. Aperture a little oblique, 

 rounded lunate, peristome thin, straight; margins distant, united 

 by a thin callus on the parietal wall. Columellar margin dilated 

 above, completely covering the umbilicus. 



Diam. maj. 12, minor 10.5; alt. 9 ram. 



Hab. — Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase, No. 735). Type in my 

 collection. 



This makes the third species of Chloritis recorded from Japan. 

 It differs from both C. oscitans and C. fragilis by its smaller 

 size, by the completely covered umbilicus and by the bristles being 

 shorter, stiffer and much more crowded. In the shape of aperture 

 it is nearest to C. oscitans. 



Eulota (.Sgista) mimuloides n s)>. 



Shell rather narrowly umbilicated, depressed conoid, ruddy 

 corneous, paler below. Spire depressed, apex obtuse, suture linear. 

 Whorls 5, closely coiled, increasing very slowly, somewhat flat- 

 tened above, rounded below, with a thin deciduous cuticle, which 

 is densely covered with short silky processes, like adnate hairs. 

 The last whorl angulated at the periphery, scarcely descending' in 

 front. Aperture oblique, subcircular, peristome not thickened, a 

 little expanded; raai'gius distant, columellar a little dilated above. 

 Umbilicus rather narrow. 



Diam. 7.5, alt. 4.25 mm. 



Hab. — Itanami, Omi (Hirase, No. 753). 



Allied to JEgisia mimula, but it is smaller, the spire is more 

 depressed, the whorls are more closely coiled, the last is less ample, 

 the umbilicus narrower, and the cuticular processes are more 

 crowded and smaller. 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. , 



ON THE COMMON BROWN BATS OF PENINSULAR FLORIDA AND 

 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA. 



BY S. N. RHOADS, 



Exaraiuatiou of a series of skins and skulls and alcoholic speci- 

 mens of the Florida Brown Bat, in the author's collection and in 

 the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 shows constant racial diflferences from typical Eptesieus ftiscus of 

 Philadelphia county. These difierences are similar and in the same 

 degree and direction as those separating the two forms of Red Bat 

 inhabiting the regions named. The Florida race may be distin- 

 guished as follows: 

 Eptesieus fuscus osceola subsp. nova. 



Type No. 875, ad. d^, in Coll. of S. N. Rhoads. Taken April 

 29, 1892, at Tarpon Springs, Fla., by W. S. Dickinson, 



Description. — Similar in size and cranial characters to fusciis ; 

 colors deeper and darker, being of slightly varying shades of cin- 

 namon brown as contrasted with the bistre and sepia of fuscus. 

 This character is uniform in a series of eight dry skins which have 

 never been immersed in a liquid preservative, and is peculiar to 

 them in a comparison with a similar series of fifteen topotypes of 

 fuscus. 



Measuretnents of type, made by collector from fresh specimen : 

 Total length 101 mm, ; tail 38 mm. ; hind foot 9^ mm. Average 

 measurements of four topotypes, 113-44-10,6. 



The skull of type indicates it to be an old adult, quite as large 

 as adult skulls of fuscus, but the measurements given by the 

 collector are less than a normal average. This average corresponds 

 -closely with that of ten specimens ot fuscus from Sing Sing, N. Y., 

 as given in Miller's monograph of North American Vespertilionidce. 



Whether this subspecies is found outside the limits of peninsular 

 Florida I am unable to state. As Miller classes the Eptesieus from 

 Alabama, Georgia and Mississippi examined by him under fuscus, 

 I conclude that T^. caroliniensis of Geoffrey cannot apply to the 

 Florida race. 




lUOl.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. tU^ 



In Miller's monograph, above cited, all the California Eptesicus 

 examined by him are classed under fuscuf<. A specimen in the 

 author's collection from the San Bernardino Valley, near San Ber- 

 nardino, indicates a phase of coloration separating it from typical 

 fuseas, in a manner such as might be reasonably predicted by any 

 one having a knowledge of the climatic effect of this locality upon 

 other mammals thus living on the outskirts of the Mojave Desert 

 region. It is quite probable that Mr. Ilerron collected this speci- 

 men on his ranch, a few miles west of San Bei*nardino, or in one 

 of his eastern trips into the edge of the desert. The exact locality 

 is not stated on the label. The specimen may be thus charac- 

 terized : 



Eptesicus fuscus bernardiniis subsp. nova. 



Type No. 1,247, ad. d". Coll. of S. N. Khoads. Taken by R. 

 B. Herron, May 26, 1893, in the "San Bernardino Valley" 

 (near San Bernardino), Cal. 



Description. — Size and cranial characters as in Eptesicus fuscus 

 typicus. 



Color. — Pallid bistre above, brownish drab below; the hairs 

 below being unicolor nearly to their roots, and those above darken- 

 ing slightly only in the basilar fourth of their length. In fuscn^s 

 the upper body hairs are darkly sooty for more than half their 

 basilar length, the brown tips not concealing the dark under-fur. 

 Wing membranes and ears in bernardinus very dark- 



Measurements of type: Total length 114 mm,; tail 51 mm.; 

 •hind foot ?; alar extent 304 mm. These measurements were 

 made by the collector before skinning the s])ecimen. 



A series of four specimens from the same collector taken in 

 the "San Bernardino Mts." in September, 1893, shows that the 

 mountain form is inseparable from fuscus ; one of these, however, is 

 a perfect intergrade. Bernardinus differs from peninsular, O. 

 Thomas, from southern Lower California, in its large size ; penin- 

 -sulce appearing to be a distinct species. 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF £DeC. , 



MYCTOPHUM PHENGODES IN THE NORTH ATLANTIC. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Myctophum phengodes (LUtken). 



S.[copelus'] phengodes Liitken, Kongel. Dansk. Vidensk. Selsk. Skrift. 

 (K^benhavn), 6e Ra5ke, VII (1890-94), 1892, p. 253, fig. 11. 



No. 7,987. From the Atlantic Ocean, in 60° N. Lat., ])et\veen 

 Greenland and North America. Dr. I. I. Hayes. 



Form of the body of the fish elongate and compressed, and 

 much as in Goode and Bean's figure (No. 84) of Myctophum 

 remiger. The greatest depth of the body is about the pectoral 

 region, and it is contained in the body (excluding caudal) about 

 4 times. 



The head is rather large and about 3f times in the body (^'ith- 

 out caudal), blunt and compressed. Ej'es large and anterior in 

 position, about 2|^ in the head, and while less than the greatest 

 posterior part of the interorbital region they are larger than the 

 least, or anterior, width of the same. Mouth large, the distal 

 expanded extremity of the maxillary posterior to the eye for nearly 

 the length of the snout, and the mouth-cleft itself occupies f the 

 length of the head. Margin of the preoperculum slopes slightly 

 posteriorly and forms a slightly convex curve which bulges poste- 

 riorly. Nostrils directly anterior to the eye and placed laterally 

 upon the blunt snout. Pseudobranchia? large. Gill-rakers long 

 and slender upon the first arch, some longer than the gill-fila- 

 ments. Tongue narrow, knobbed, and free anteriorly. ^linute 

 villose teeth upon the jaws. 



Origin of the D. nearer the tip of the snout than the base of 

 the caudal. Base of D. a little more than h the base of .the A. 

 Base of last D. ray over the origin of the A. The P. are long 

 and pointed, and with their tips extending nearly to the anus and 

 almost to the medio-laleral photophores. Origin of the V. a little 

 anterior to the origin of the D. and the tips of the fin extending 

 to the origin of the A. Adipose D. a little nearer the base of the 

 caudal than the base of the last D. ray, though the posterior mar- 

 gin of its own posterior moiety is anterior to the base of the last 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHFA. 621 



A. ray. The least depth of tlie caudal peduncle is equal to the 

 anterior interorbital region. 



The photophores are as follows: 3 mandibulars on each side of 

 the mandibles ; 2 operculars near the lower part of the margin of 

 the preoperculum ; 5 thoracic on each side; 4 ventrals on each 

 7«ide; 8 anals, a gap, then 9 more, in all 17 on each side; 3 pec- 

 torals on each side; 1 antero-lateral on each side a little posterior, 

 though above, the bases of the V., but nearer to the latter than to 

 the lateral line; 3 medio-laterals on each side, forming an oblique 

 ^ieries on each side, the lower a little anterior to the last ventral 

 photophores, and the uppermost immediately below the lateral line 

 and in advance of the first anal photophore; a single photophore, 

 the postero-lateral, almost on the lateral line and above and ante- 

 rior to the eighth anal photophore; 2 caudals upon each side inferi- 

 orly, and a single siipercaudal at the origin of the rudimentarv 

 caudal rays. The caudal, though somewhat damaged, was forked, 

 the lobes most likely rounded, and the lower a trifle the larger. The 

 lateral line consists of a single well -developed pore on each scale of 

 its course, which is supei'ior, and parallel with the dorsal profile of 

 the back. Scales 42 (?). Radii of D. 12. Radii of A. 22. 



My first impression was to regard this specimen as Myctophum 

 reiniger Goode and Beau, but a careful examination has revealed 

 the facts mentioned above ; and if, as Goode and Bean contended, 

 " the arrangement of the luminous spot is of the greatest value 

 in the classification of these fishes," there can be no reasonable 

 doubt that it is Liitken's Scopelus phengodes. 



Although the localities where Liitken obtained his examples were 

 all in southern latitudes, and very remote from that where the 

 present example was taken, I identify it with the above species 

 without any hesitation, as it agrees perfectly with the essential 

 characters given. Specimens from widely remote localities in the 

 case of deep-sea and oceanic fishes do not always necessarily form 

 u barrier to their identity as one and the same species. 



That M. phengodes and 31. reviiger are allied is also evident by 

 their long P., the large eye and .shape of the head, as seen on com- 

 parison with an example of the latter species. 



The example described above is in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. It po ssesses a median 

 infero- caudal photophore. 




622 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA.-V. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The descriptioa of Japanese ClausiliidoB is resumed in the preseut 

 paper. Enough material is dow at hand to permit some work 

 looking beyond merely descriptive treatment, while every sending 

 from Mr. Hirase adds to the data on one or another of the prob- 

 lems presented by these intricately constructed creatui-es. I have 

 below considered the evolution of the " lunella," as shown in some 

 newly discovered species of Stereophcedusa, in which young shells 

 show a series of distinct palatal folds, like the European tertiary 

 Clausiliidoi and the more primitive forms of Eastern Asia, while 

 old shells have a true lunella. A similar transformation has like- 

 wise been observed in a Mcgaloph(edusa just received. The evi- 

 dence indicates that the lunella has been independently acquired, 

 in different phyla, by a process of parallel evolution. 



Diagrams showing chief modifications of the palatal armature in Eemi- 

 phiBdusa : Fig. 1, C. aulacophord ; fig. 2, C. crenilabmm ; fig. 3, G. attrita ; 

 fig. 4, C. hakonensis ; fig. 5, C. hyperolia ; fig. 6, C. shikokuensis ; fig. 

 7, G. perifjnobilis ; fig. 8, G. munus : fig. 9, G. micropeas ; fig. 11, G. 

 firaeilispira. 




1IM)1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



I must again express ray deep obligation for material to Mr. Y. 

 Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan. His tireless researches, critical eye for 

 detecting species, and exactness in recording localities are worthy 

 of high commendation. Without these qualities the new and 

 relatively exact literature of Japanese land mollusks would not 

 exist. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Boettger. 



The system of groups set forth by Dr. Boettger in the Clau- 

 silienstudlen, while sufficient at that time, is quite inadequate for 

 the classification of the great number of Chinese and Japanese 

 species now known. For Japanese species my studies lead me to 

 adopt the arrangement offered below. The clausilium in all the 

 groups is rounded or tapering at the end, and not thickened or 

 only slightly so. 



a. — Inferior lamella spirally ascending within, visible in a front 

 view, receding less deeply than in other Hemiphiedusoi ; shell 

 rather large ; superior lamella continuous with the spiral. 

 h. — Interlamellar space corrugated; lucella united to the mid- 

 dle of a lower palatal plica, contiguous to or united with 

 an upper pala'al plica near the middle (fig. 2). 

 Clausilium tapering below, recurved and spoutlike at 



the apex, Group of C. ptychochila. 



h\ — Interlamellar space smooth; luuella curving inward above, 

 uuited below to the middle of the lower palatal plica 

 (figs. 3, 4). Clausilium narrowly tongue-shaped. 



Group of C. platyauchen. 

 a\ — Inferior lamella receding, inconspicuous or not visible in a 

 front view. 

 b. — Several palatal plicie; no lunella (fig. 11), 



Group of C. validluseida. 

 6\ — A short or rudimentary lunella below one or two palatal 

 plicje; no lower palatal plica (figs. 9, 10), 



Group of C. suhlunellata. 

 h'\ — A lunella developed. 



c. — No palatal plicje; plica principalis subobsolete or 

 wanting; superior lamella separated from the 

 spiral lamella (fig. 5), . Group of C. hyperolia. 

 (•'.—Superior continuous with the spiral lamella; principal 

 plica well devel 'ped ; an upper palatal plica px'esent. 

 Clausilium curved, concave on the inner face. 

 d. — Lunella bow-shaped (fig. H) or J-shaped (fig. 7), 

 united to the upper palatal plica, curved in- 

 ward below; superior and spiral lamelkc united, 

 Group of C. awajien--<i-^. 




624 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACxVDEMY Ol' [DeC. , 



d'. — Lunella slightly curving inward below, not united 

 above with the upper palatal plica (fig. 8). 

 Clausilium rapidly tapering to the mucronate 



apex, Gronj) of C. vinnus. 



d\ — Lunella straight, joined to the middle of the 



upper and lower palatal plicse, like the letter 



I (fig. 1), . . . Group of C. aulacophora. 



c^ — Superior and spiral lamella? contiguous or separated; 



lunella curving inward below, joining the short 



palatal plica above. Clausilium unusually straight 



and flat, rounded at the apex, Group of C. Pinto. 



A somewhat different sequence of groups would result from using 

 the characters of the clausilium for the primary divisions, but 

 while probably more natural, such an arrangement would be more 

 difficult in practical use. The clausilium is variously specialized 

 in the groups of C ptychochila, G. munus and G. Pinto, much 

 alike in the other groups. The only species, so far as I know, not 

 provided for in the above key is C. platydera, which belongs with- 

 out doubt to the platyauchen group, but has the receding and 

 sti'aightened inferior lamella of the other division; but there are 

 also some forms partially intermediate between the groups of G. 

 validiuscula, G. -mhlunellata and C. aulaeophora, and further 

 knowledge will doubtless reveal various other intermediate species. 

 The group of G. validiuscula is probably a composite one. 



Group of G. .nibluiiellata. 

 Clausilia sericina var. rhopalia n<'v. 



Shell rimate, fusiform, rather obese below, the upper half atten- 

 uated; pale yellow; very finely striate throughout, the sculpture not 

 coarser on the last whorl. Outlines concave above, the apex 

 obtuse. Whorls 10, moderately convex, the last compi'essed later- 

 all v. Aperture ovate, somewhat oblique; peristome continuous, 

 white, reflexed and thickened, the upper margin in contact with 

 prc(!cding whorl. Superior lamella oblique, marginal, continuous 

 with the spiral lamella which ascends to the middle of the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella thick and forming a rather conspicuous 

 fold deep in the aperture, straightly ascending within, and pene- 

 trating as far as the ?i)iral lamella. Subcoluraellar lamella deeply 

 immersed, terminating about a half whorl withiu. Principal plica 

 visible deep in the throat, ascending to a lateral position. Upper 




1 !)()).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 62-") 



palatal plica narrow, oblique, lateral, well separated from the 

 straight, oblique, low aud narrow lunella. Lower palatal plica 

 subobsolete or wanting. 



Length 18.3, diain. 4.3 mm. 



Length 17, diam. 4.3 mm. 



Clausilium very narrow, parallel-sided, a little excised on the 

 palatal side of the apex. 



Mikuriya, Suruga. Types No. 82,298 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 7365 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This somewhat club-shaped form is noticeable for its fine stria- 

 tion and pale color. The narrow lunella is longer than in other 

 species of the group which I have seen. C. sericiaa, which has 

 not been figured nor very fully described, seems to be its nearest 

 relative. 



Group of C. aivajiensls. 



This group comprises Hemiphcedusce in which the lateral or 

 latero-dorsal lunella is J-shaped or bow-shaped, its upper end 

 l)eing united to the middle, or sometimes to the lower end, of a 

 short upper palatal plica, the lower end curving inward. The 

 clausilium is typical of Hemiphcedusa, being parallel-sided, not 

 oblique or thickened at the distal end, and usually it is emarginate 

 on the columellar side of the filament. 



The species are numerous on Shikoku Island, and will probably 

 prove difficult to limit when more localities are explored aud fur- 

 ther slightly differentiated races come to light. Others are known 

 from Awaji, western Nippon aud Kiushiu. None have come to 

 my hands from middle or northern Nippon, or from Yesso. 



Species with J-shaped lunella: C. awajiensis Pils., C perigno- 

 bilis and var. koehiemis Pils., C. ii^chna aud var. neptis Pils., C. 

 .iubawantiaca Pils., C. harimensis Pils. and C. higoends Pils. 



Species with bow-shaped lunella: C. ignobllis Sykes, C. shiko- 

 taenf^is Pils. 

 Clausilia higoensis Pilsbry. PI. XXXV, figs. 1, 2, 3, 1. 



Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, p. 499 (October 2, 1901). 



Distinct by its inflated shell, attenuated above, and with a more 

 or less developed wave or crest behind the outer lip. In some speci- 

 mens this is strongly developed (PI. XXXV, fig. 3), much as in 

 40 




()26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY 01' [DeC. , 



6'. oxijcyma ; in others (fig. 4) it is hardly noticeable; but there 



are intermediate specimens. 



The type locality is not oNIidumate, as at first announced, but 



Minamata, Higo. The specimens figured are from that place. 



Perfectly similar forms have been sent from Togo, Satsuraa, Xo. 



760 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Clausilia ischna Pilsbry. PI. XXXV. figs. 15, 16. 



rils})ry, these Proceedings for 1901, Vol. LIII, p. 500 (October 2, 

 1901). 



Shell rimate, fusiform, very slender, the length about five times 

 the diameter, attenuated above, brown or pale brown, somewhat 

 glossy, finely striate, more coarsely so behind the lip. Whorls 

 11^, moderately convex, the last somewhat flattened above, having 

 a low swelling some distance behind the lip, a little produced for- 

 ward. Aperture piriform, small, slightly oblique. Superior 

 lamella rather strong, marginal, slightly oblique, continuous with 

 the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella receding, not visible in a 

 front view, but in oblique view seen to be quite strong; straightly 

 ascending within the last whorl, and giving off a distinct branch 

 toward the spiral lamella; its spiral portion weak, shorter and 

 much lower than the spiral lamella, reaching inward to a ventra 

 position. Subcolumellar lamella deeply immersed, its lower end 

 barely visible or not visible within the aperture. Principal plica 

 visible in the throat, extending inward a little past a lateral posi- 

 tion. Lunella lateral, straight and joining the middle of a very 

 short upper palatal plica above, curving strongly inward below. 

 Peristome reflexed, continuous, emarginate at the termination of 

 the superior lamella. 



Clausilium long and parallel-sided, deejily emarginate on the 

 columellar side of the filament. 



Length 1G.5, diam. 3.3, length of aperture 3 mm. 

 Length 15.7, diam. 3 mm. 



Kochi, Tosa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Y. Hirase, No. 657a). 

 Types No. 81,580 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



The somewhat stouter, paler var. JiejMs is similar to C. ischna 

 internally. 



This species is more slender than any other known member of 

 the group of C. awajiensis, and has more whorls. The closing 

 apparatus is similar to that of several other species of the group. 

 It differs from C. subaurantiaca from Deyai, Nagato, in the follow 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



ing respects: The surface is more coarsely striate: the last whorl 

 does not have a convex belt aboVe the position of the principal 

 plica, and has more of a swelling on its latter portion; the spire 

 has one more whorl. It remains to be seen whether intergrades 

 exist between this species from Shikokn and subaurantiaca from 

 the Province of Nagato in western Nippon. They are certainly 

 closely related. 



Group of C. Phito. 



Small, solid Hemipluedusw with the clausilium unusually straight 

 and flat, rounded or a little tapering at the apex, abruptly bent 

 near the filament and emarginate or excised on the columellar side 

 thereof. Superior lamella contiguous to or separated from the 

 spiral lamella, which is short, barely reaching the ventral side. 

 Inferior lamella deeply receding, straightened and strong inside. 



This group has some affinity to Zaptijx in both shell and claus- 

 ilium, but it has not the accessory lamellae and plicre of that sec- 

 tion. It is not closely related to other Hemiphredusan groups. 



Two species, from the islands Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-shima, 

 are known : C. Pinto, in which the last whorl is normal, and C. 

 jdychocyma, which has a wave or crest and several strong wrinkles 

 behind the outer lip. 

 Clausilia Pinto Pilsbry. PI. XXXV, figs. 12. i:;, IJ. 



Pilsbry, these Proceedings, Vol. LIII, p. 501 (October 2, 1901j. 



Shell very small, fusiform, solid and strong, flesh-colored, 

 weakly marked with slight growth-wrinkles, eroded in irregular 

 spots. Spire regularly tapering to a rather small apex. "Whorls 

 about 8, the last without crest or bther conspicuous sculpture 

 behind the lip. Aperture small, squarish-ovate, the lip somewhat 

 reflexed, very thick, white, hardly free above. Superior lamella 

 marginal, contiguous to the spiral lamella, which penetrates barely 

 to the ventral side. Inferior lamella very deeply receding, high 

 •and stout within the last whorl, subvertically ascending, a trifle 

 sinuous, extending inward as far as the spiral lamella. Subcolu- 

 mellar lamella emerging. Principal plica less than a half whorl 

 long, extending shortly beyond the lunella. Lunella lateral, 

 straight and joining a short upper palatal plica above, curving well 

 inward and ending in a slight nodule below. 



Length 9.5, diam. 2.6 mm. 



Length 8.5, diam. 2.3 mm. 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Clausilium (PI. XXXV, iig. 13) remarkably straight, rounded 

 at the apex, abruptly bent near the filament, and very doeply ex- 

 cised on the columellar side of the latter, 



Tane-ga-shima, CJsumi, in the northeastern group of the Riukiu 

 Islands. Types Xo. 82,553 Coll. A. X. S. P., from Xo. 663 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A smaller species than C. j^tychocyma, with the last whorl plain 

 and normal, not strongly sculptured, as C. piychocyma is. The 

 solid, smoothish shell, short spiral and columellar lamella, and 

 peculiarly flat clausihum are the same in both species. 



At the time I wrote a preliminary account of the Tane-ga-shima 

 and Yaku-shima snails these points of relationship were not 

 appreciated, and I took a wrong view of the affinities of C. pinta. 

 Clausilia ptyjjhocyma Pilsbry. PI. XXXV, figs. 7. 8, 9. 



Pilsbry, these Proceediurja for 1901, Vol. LIU, p. 501 (October 2). 



Shell obesely fusiform, rather acutely tapering above, buff or in 

 part pale reddish, extremely solid and thick, weakly striate, 

 almost smooth. Whorls 9, the latter part of the last whorl having 

 a strong wave or crest, accompanied by several smaller but strong 

 wrinkles, behind and parallel to tiie outer lip. Apei'ture small, 

 squarish-ovate, the peristome slightly expanded, thick, hardly 

 free above. Superior lamella low and small but stout, separated 

 from the spiral lamella, which runs inward barely to the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella very deeply receding, strong and obliquely 

 ascending inside, penetrating as far as the spiral lamella. Sub- 

 columellar lamella immersed, its lower end visible in an oblique 

 view in the aperture, sometimes very weakly emerging. Principal 

 plica rather short, visible deep in the throat and extending shortly 

 past the lunella. Lunella lateral, weak, straight above, curving 

 inward below and joining or contiguous to a very short, nodule- 

 like lower palatal plica. 



Length 11, diam. 8 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXXV, fig. 10) parallel-sided, remarkably 

 straight in profile, tapering on both sides and slightly acuminate 

 below, excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Tane-ga-shima, Osumi. Types No. 81,932, Coll. A. X. S. P., 

 from No. 664a of Mr Hirase's collection. 



An exceedingly solid lictle Clausilia, quite unlike C. tanega- 

 shinuc in its immersed or nearlv immersed subcolumellar lamella, 




1901. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



and especially iu the clausilium, which is unusually straight and 

 not in the least oblique at the apex. 



Clausilia ptychocyma var. yakushimae Pilsbry. PI. XXXV, fig. 11. 

 Pilsbry, /. c. 

 Yaku-shiraa, Osumi. Types No. 81,934 Coll. A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 6646 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA Pilsbry. 



Clausilium obliquely truncate distally, the columellar side of the 

 apex slanting, strongly thickened along the inner face. Shell 

 having the superior and spiral lamelliTC contiguous or separated, 

 the inferior lamella deeply receding, straight or obliquely ascend- 

 ing inside; spiral and columellar lamella usually continued within 

 past the ventral side; luuella united to both upper and lower 

 palatal plicse or separated from the upper plica, usually latero-ventral 

 or ventral in position. Type C. mikado Pils. 



The characters of this section were only imperfectly perceived 

 when it was originally proposed last year. Further investigation 

 shows it to be quite distinct from HemlpJucditsa (which resembles 

 it in the receding inferior lamella), by the oblique and thickened 

 end of the clausilium. Moreover, the lamellae extend further 

 inward, the closing apparatus retreats more deeply: there is often 

 a crest on the neck parallel to the outer lip, and in some species 

 the lip is plicate in the subcolumellar region, and there may be 

 interlamellar folds. 



The section includes three groups of species, distinguished as 

 follows : 



a. — A strong ci'est behind the outer lip, Group of C. tauegashimce. 

 a*. — No distinct crest. 



h. — Lunella curving inward above (coucrescent with the outer 

 end of the upper palatal plica), Group of C. hilahratu. 

 b\ — Lunella straight ; together with the palatal plica^ forming 

 an I-shaped barrier, or separated from the upper pala- 

 tal plica, Group of C. viikado. 



Group of C. hilahrata. 



Tyrannophpedusse of ordinary form, with the clausilium oblique 

 and thickened at the apex, excised on the columellar side of the fila- 

 ment. Superior and spiral lamella? sepai-ated or nearly so, the 

 spiral and inferior extending inward to or past the ventral side. 




G3y Pll()CEEDIX(;8 OF THE ACADEMY Ol" [DcC. , 



Inferior lamella obliquely or somewhat spirally ascetidiug withiu. 

 Siibcolumellar lamella emerging, usually in a group of lip-folds. 



Lunella ventral or lateral, rather straight above, united below to 

 a lower palatal plica. No upper palatal plica. 



The oblique end of the clausilium, disconnected superior and 

 spiral lamellte, and frequent development of a group of lip-fold'^ 

 are the chief characters of this group. It differs from the mikado 

 group ])y the absence of an upper palatal plica and the discontinu- 

 ous superior and spiral lamelko. The plication of the lip in the 

 region of the inferior and subcolumellar lamellce varies from 

 strongly developed to obsolete in each of the species known 

 among individuals from most localities. 



a. — Peristome notched on the left side of the superior lamella- 

 Shell obese below, the upper, attenuated portion thick, api- 

 cal whorl large; length about 15 mm., . C sururiensk- 

 a\ — Peristome not notched or emargiuate near the superior lamella- 

 b. — Early whorls almost always self-amputated in adults. 

 Length 17-25 mm., dependent upon the number of 

 whorls retained, as well as upon the size of the indi- 

 vidual; diam. 4^-6 mm., . . . . C. bilabrata. 

 b^. — Apex entire; shell slender, acutely tapering above, the 

 first whorl minute; length 12-15, diam. 3-3^ mm., 



C. Oscariana. 



Clausilia bilabrata Smith. PI. XXXM, figs. 17-24. 



ClausiU'a bilabrata E. A. Smith, Quarterly Jouru. of Conchology, I, 

 p. 120. Boettger, Jahrb. d. D. Malak. Ges., 1878, p. 103, wUh var. 

 ptycholmna, PI. 4, fig. 6. Kobelt, t. c, p. 96, PI. 9, fig. 12. Molleu- 

 dor£f,Nachr'bl. d. I). Malak. Ges., 1900, p. 109. 



As no good illustration of this species has appeared, it is figured 

 here for comparison with the two new forms of the same group, 

 and to show the local variations. 



The shell is strong, almost always truncate and plugged in 

 adults, 7 to 10 whorls usually remaining. It varies in color from 

 straw-yellow to rather dark brown. It is very finely striate, 

 attenuated above, the last whorl laterally compressed. Aperture 

 ovate, the peristome reHexed and well thickened, very shortly free 

 above, usually but not always corrugated by several or many folds 

 grouped around the subcolumellar lamella. The superior lamella 

 is marginal, rather small, and separated from or sometimes almost 

 continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates past the ven- 

 tral side. The inferior lamella recedes very deeply, is not visible 




1901. J NATLliAJ. SCIENCES OK I'lIILA UELl'IIIA. Hoi 



from the mouth, except for a slender continual ion across the lip 

 parallel with the subcolumellar lamella in most specimens, but 

 often wanting. It ascends rather straightly but obliquely inside, 

 and continues inward as far as the spiral lamella. The principal 

 plica is almost a whorl long, approaching the aperture, and con- 

 tinued within past the ventral side. The luuella is latero-ventral 

 or almost ventral, oblique, almost straight, but curved a trifle 

 inward above, and connected with a strong lower palatal plica very 

 near its inner end. 



The clausilium (PI. XXXVI, figs. 20, 21) is parallel -sided, 

 very obliquely cut off and thickened on the columellar side of the 

 apex. It is deeply emargiuate or excised on the columellar side 

 of the filament. 



I have received specimens from the following localities: Nippon 

 — Kobe, Setsu; Takaya, Bitchu; Toyonishikami, Nagato. Sen- 

 zan, Awaji. Shikoku: Ushirogawa and Okinoshima, Tosa, 

 Kiushiu : Fukuregi and Yatsushiro, Higo. 



The distribution of C. hllabraia includes southwestern Nippon, 

 Awaji and Shikoku Inlands, Kiushiu and the Iki Islands; the 

 latter locality on the authority of Dr. (). von Mollendorff, who 

 records specimens collected by Fruhstoi'fer. 



While there is some variation fi*om place to place, I do not see 

 grounds for the definition of any races or subspecies, except the 

 variety defined by Boettger, which I have not seen. The degree 

 of plication of the right margin of the peristome is subject to wide 

 individual variation in C. hilahrata, C. Oscariana and C. suru- 



Specimens from Kobe are pale colored, retain 7^-9 whorls, and 

 either have the right margin plain, except for the emerging inferior 

 and subcolumellar laraellie (fig. 17), or many-folded (fig. 19). 

 They measure between, alt. 22.5, diara. 5.5 mm., whorls 9, and 

 alt. 20, diam. 4.8 mm., whoi-ls 8. At Takaya, Bitchu, the shells 

 are larger, and vary from a single emerging lamella, the subcol- 

 umellar. to three or four folds. Alt. 25, diam. 5.8 mm., whorls 

 8i; alt. 21, diam. 6 mm., whorls 7^. They are corroded, and 

 more or less clothed with green ajgre on the back (figs. 23, 24). 



Toyonishikami, Nagato. Dark reddish-brown, with the lunella 

 decidedly fa^ero-ventral, and the px-incipal plica shorter; lip with 

 numerous folds. Alt. 23.5, diara. 5.Q mm., whorls 9i. 




032 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Senzan, Awaji. Like Kobe' shells, but sometimes smaller. Alt. 

 20, diam. 5 mm., whorls 8; alt. 17, diam. 4.5 mm., whorls 7^. 



Okinoshima, Tosa. Specimens like those from Kobr, but the 

 lip is sometimes appresse(l,,i]ot free above, aud the superior lamella 

 scarcely marginal. Plication of the subcolumellar region variable. 



Ushirogawa, Tosa. Slightly smaller than Kobe shells and, like 

 the preceding lot, more opaque, the lunella not visible from the 

 outside. 



One specimen, sent at a different time from this locality (PI. 

 XXXVI, fig. 22), retains the apex perfect, is reddish-brown, 

 slightly translucent, and has a much shorter principal plica, ex- 

 tending but a short distance beyond the lunella. There are 18 

 whorls, the earlier ones translucent-white. Length 25.5, diara. 

 5.9 mm. 



Fukuregi, Higo, Kiushiu. Rather small, with few or many 

 subcolumellar plications. Alt. 19, diam. 5 mm., whorls 9. 



Yatsushiro, Higo. Larger than the preceding; peristome often 

 somewhat more solute than in Kobe shells, and the mouth a little 

 narrower. Alt. 2.4, diam, 5 mm., whorls 10^; alt. 21, diam. 

 5 mm., whorls 8^. 

 Clausilia plicilabris var. ptycholsema Boettger. 



'* Shell larger, more distinctly striate, the last whorl more 

 strongly rib-striate. Aperture longer, the peristome less calloused 

 andreflexed. Length (decollate) 20^27^, diam. 5^-6£ ram." 



" Seluchi, between Hiuga and Bugo " (Rein). 



Clausilia Oscariana Pilsbry. PI. XXXVI, figs. 30, 31. 



rilsbry,iu these ProceediiKjs for 1901, Vol. LIU, p. 409 (Octol)er 2, 

 1901). 



Shell rimate, fusiform, rather acutely attenuated above, the 

 early whorls retained in adults; dingy brown; finely striate. 

 Whorls 10^ to 11^, slightly convex, the last perceptibly constricted 

 behind the lip. Aperture ovate-piriforra, the sinulus a little 

 retracted; peristome very shortly free above, not emarginate at 

 the position of the superior lamella, reflexed and thickened, crossed 

 by several folds {sometimes subobsolete) in the vicinity of the sub- 

 columellar lamella. Superior lamella marginal, rather low, 

 slightly oblique, widely separated from the spiral lamella, the latter 

 reaching a ventral position within. Inferior lamella very deeply 

 receding, scarcely visible from the mouth, extending inward nearly 




1901.] NATURAL SCIKNX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. G3o 



as far as the spiral lamella. Subcoluinellar lamella emergin>j to 

 the liji-edge, several folds usually grouped around it. Priucipal 

 plica strong, reachiug from the dorsal to the ventral side. 

 Lunella lateral, strong, slightly curving inward above, united 

 below to the lower palatal fold near its inner end. 



Length 14.7, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Length 12, diam. 3 ram. 



Fukuregi, Province Higo, Kiushiu. Types No. 81,930 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 674 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Related to G. bilabrata Smith, but only about half as large, 

 with fewer whorls, not subject to truncation, and more attenuated 

 above. The lunella is more lateral. In C. suriigensis the spire 

 is much less slender. Named in honor of Dr. Oscar Boettger. 

 Clausilia surugensis n. sp. PI. XXXVI, figs. 25, 26, 27. 



Shell rimate, obese below, attenuated above, whitish under a pale 

 brownish-yellow cuticle, which is mainly eroded from the specimens 

 examined; finely striate. Whorls 10, the first rather large, next 

 three or four scarcely increasing in diameter, the last two or three 

 whorls quite swollen. Aperture piriform with rather distinct 

 sinulus, peristome narrowly refiexed and thickened, varying from 

 nearly smooth to densely j^licate along the columellar margin ; 

 notched to the left of the superior lamella. Superior lamella rather 

 small, a more or less distinct groove on each side of it, and a very 

 small fold or lamella close to it on the left; not continuous with the 

 spiral lamella, the latter continued inward past the ventral side. 

 Inferior lamella very deeply receding, strongly spiral within, con- 

 tinuing inward as far as the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella 

 emerging. Principal plica a half whorl long, extending from a 

 dorsal to a ventral position. The lunella is subventral, curves in- 

 ward above, and is weakly united with, or slightly separated from, 

 the middle of a i-ather long, oblique, lower palatal plica. 



Length 15, diam. 3.7 mm. 



Length 14.3, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXXVI, figs. 28, 29) oblique and somewha 

 thickened at the apex, a little excised or emarginate on the colu- 

 mellar side of the filament. 



Mikuriya, Suruga. Types No. 81,902 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 Mr. Hirase's No. 688. 



This species is much smaller than C. bilabrata, which is not 




r)o4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dcc. , 



known from so far north or northeast. It is more attenuated 

 above, and the peristome is notched on the left side of the terra i- 

 aiation or the superior lamella. 



Group of C taiief/ashimce. 



Solid and strong Tyrannophcediisw with the clausilium oblique 

 and thickened distally, the superior lamella separated from the 

 spiral lamella, which penetrates past the ventral side, accompanied 

 by the inferior lamella; lunella subventral; subcolumellar lamella 

 strongly emerging. There is a strong ridge or crest behind the 

 outer lip, parallel with it. 



Similar to the group of C. bilabnda in internal structure, but 

 differing in the crest behind the lij). Species are known from the 

 northeastern grou{) of Riukiu Islands, and from southern Kiushiu. 

 Species two: C. oxycyma, with a distinct upper palatal plica devel- 

 oped, length 14 mm., and C. tanegashinuc, which has the upper 

 palatal plica represented only by an inward bend of the upper end 

 of the lunella, length 16-18^ mir. 



Clausilia oxycyma n. sp. P). XXXVII, ligs. 35, 36, :',7, M^. 



Shell rim ate, fusiform, rather slender, attenuated above, glossy, 

 rather dark red-brown when unworn ; finely striate, a little more 

 coarsely so pn the last whorl. Whorls 9!^ to nearly 11, moderately 

 convex, the last three whorls of almost equal diameter, last whorl 

 compressed laterally, tapering, rising into a strong, rather acute 

 ridge or crest a short distance behind the lip and parallel with it. 

 Aperture piriform, slightly oblique, brown within; peristome nar- 

 rowly reflexed, continuous, white, scarcely emarginate at the posi- 

 tion of the superior lamella. Superior lamella small, marginal, 

 slightly oblique, not continuous u^ifh the spiral lamella. Spiral 

 lamella very high within, of equal length with the inferior lamella, 

 both continuing past a ventral position. Inferior lamella very 

 deeply receding, twisted within. Subcolumellar lamella emerging 

 to the lip-edge, bounded by grooves. Principal plica strong, 

 reaching from the dorsal to the ventral side. Lunella latere- ven- 

 tral, oblique, joining the middle of strong, rather long, oblique, 

 upper and lower palatal plicse. 



Length 14, diam. 3 to 3^ mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXXVII, figs. 41, 42) moderately curved, the 




iyOl.] NAirUAL S( IKXCKS OF I'HILADELl'IIIA. 035 



<listal end very oblique and thickened ou the columellar side, the 

 proximal end emarginate on the columellar side of the filament. 

 The middle of the palatal margin project r*. 



Kagoshima, Satsuma, in southern Kiushiu. Types No. 81,925 

 Coll. A. N. S. v., from Mr. Y. Hirase's No. 695. 



Similar to C. tanec/ashiina' and C. ptychocyma in the strong crest 

 behind the outer lip, but different from both in palatal armature. 

 No other Japanese species has any similar structure of the last 

 whorl. 

 Clausilia lanegashimae Pilsbry. I'l. XXXVII, figs. :'.■_>, 33. 3i. 



Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, Vol. LIII, p. 500 (October 2). 



Shell fusiform, rather acutely tapering above, very solid, some- 

 what glossy, brown, very weakly striate except the last whorl. 

 "Whorls about lOi, moderately convex, the last having a strong, 

 acute ridge or crest a short distance behind the outer and basal 

 lips. Aperture ovate- piriform, the sinulus a trifle retracted ; peris- 

 tome reflexed, somewhat thickened, very shortly free or almost 

 adnate above. Superior lamella small, vertical, marginal, widely 

 .separated from the spiral lamella, the latter extending inward past 

 the ventral side. Inferior lamella emerging in a slender cord 

 parallel to the subcolumellar lamella, otherwise very deeply reced- 

 ing, within very strong and obliquely ascending, penetrating as far 

 as the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip- 

 edge, bounded by grooves. Principal plica about a half-whorl 

 long, extending from a dorsal position (visible within the throat) 

 to just past the lunella. Lunella w'ell developed, subveutral, some- 

 what curved inward above, connected below with the inner end of 

 a long oblique lower palatal plica. 



Length 18.5, diam. 4.2 nun. 



Length 16, diam. 4 mm. 



Length 16.2, diam. o.T mm. 



The clausilium (PI. XXXVII, %s. 89, 40) is similar to that of 

 C. bllabrata, being oblique and thickened at the apex, and excised 

 on the columellar side of the filament. 



Tane-ga-shima, ( )sumi. Northeastern Group of the Riukiu Islands. 



Types No. 81,933 Coll. A. N. S. P., from No. 662 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. Also occurs on Yakushima, No. 0626 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



This is a much larger species than C. ptycJiociiina, with emerging 




636 I'KOCEEIHNGS OI' THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



subcoluraellar lamella aud sharper, higher crest behind the outer 

 lip. C. oxyeyma scarcely differs from fanega-'thimre externally 

 except in its smaller size, but it has a well developed upper palatal 

 plica, which is represented in tanegashimce by only a short inward 

 bend of the lunella. The palatal marfiin of the clausilium is 

 straight in C. tanegashinue. 



Specimens from Yaku-shima agree with those of Taue-ga-shima 

 in solidity and size. The lunella is losv above and its inward bend 

 above, though low, is rather pliciform. I did not receive these 

 specimens until recently, or I would have named the species 

 differently, since it proves to extend beyond Tane-ga-shima. 



Group of C. mikado. 



This group is well developed in the provinces about the upper 

 (eastern) end of tne Inland Sea. Probably C. plicilahrls A. 

 Ad., described from Tanabe, Kii, will prove to belong here, near 

 C. aurantiaca and the following species. I formerly thought it 

 might be identical with C. bilabrata Smith. 



Clausilia orthatracta n. sp. PL XXXVII, figs. 44, 45, 46. 



Shell rimate, slenderly aud straightly fusiform, rather solid, of 

 a pale brown tint. Surface lusterless, finely striate, the stride per- 

 ceptibly coarser, though still fine and close, on the latter part of 

 the last whorl. The upper whorls are almost smooth from wear in 

 the specimens seen. Spire nearly straight-sided, attenuated and 

 nearly cylindric above, the apex rather large. Whorls 12, the 

 earlier convex, the later ones Hatteued, last whorl compressed later- 

 ally, noticeably constricted behind the lip, especially near and at 

 the base; and there is generally a stronger riblet where the expan- 

 sion of the lip begins (fig. 45). Aperture obli(|ue, retracted at 

 the base and sinulus, piriform and small. The peristome is con- 

 tinuous and stands forward free from the preceding whorl; is white, 

 thickened, expanded and reflexed, weakly emarginate at the posi- 

 tion of the superior lamella or not noticeably so. Superior lamella 

 marginal, oblique, continuous with tlie spiral lamella, which is low 

 at first, but rises high in the region of the closing apparatus, and 

 penetrates inward past the aperture to a lateral position on the 

 left side. The inferior lamella recedes deeply, though the lower 

 end continues to the lip-edge. It is straightened within, and pene- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. (537 



I rates nearly or quite as deeply as the spiral lamella. The sub- 

 columellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge, is bounded by grooves, 

 and there is sometimes some weak crenation of the lip below it. 

 The principal plica approaches the lip, and is about one whorl 

 long. The narrow, straight lunella stands in a ventro-lateral 

 position, and is connected above and below with short but higher 

 upper and lower palatal plicse (fig. 46). 



Length 16, diam. nearly 3, length of aperture 3 mm. 



Length 15, diam. 3, length of aperture 3.2 mm. 



The clausilium (fig. 43) resembles that of C. oxycyma ; the 

 palatal edge being a little swollen in the middle. The distal end 

 is oblifjue and strongly thickened, as usual. 



Akasaka, Province Mino, Japan. Type? No. 82,273 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 748 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This TyvannoplKedusa stands between C. aurantiaea Bttg. and C. 

 iotapty.c Pils. It is more slender than either, and differs from 

 them in the shape of the spire and the relatively smaller aperture. 



Compared wilh C. mirantiaca var. Iiypoptychia Pils., the present 

 species is seen to differ in the straigliter lateral outlines and larger 

 apex. 



Section .STEKEOPH.EDUSA Bttg. 



This section comprises four groups of species: The group of C. 

 valida, restricted to the middle Riukiu Islands;^ the group of C. 

 japonica, known from Nippon and Shikoku; the group of C. 

 brevior, now known from Nippon, Kiushiu and the Riukiu Islands, 

 and the gi'oup of C. eutospira, containing a single species from 

 Tane-ga-shima. 



The group of C. japonica includes the following large species: 

 1. C. japonica Crosse. Synonyms of the typical form are C 

 kobensis Smith and C. nipponensis Kobelt. There cannot 

 be much doubt that C. eurystoma v. Mart, is a pathologic 

 individual of the same. 



A var. pallens has been distinguished by von Mollendorff, 

 and I have defined var. interplicata. There remain several 

 other more or less well-marked races, which it seems to me 

 inadvisable to name until their distribution can be more fully 

 studied. In Idzurao Province a large, dark race occurs, which 



' These Proceedinys for 1901, Vol. LTII, p. 410. 




038 PROCKEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l^CC. ^ 



agrees with C. Hilgemlorfi v. Mart, iu everythiuir except 

 the sutural plica which is said to characterize that species. 



2. C Hllgendorfi V. Mart. Probably a subspecies of C. ./o/jom'm. 



3. C. oostoma v. Moll. I have considered my C. japoniea var. 



surugce to be this species. The latter has a synoriyin, C. 

 eurystoma subsp. brac/u/ptychla Mlldff. 



4. C. subjaponica Pils. 



The group of C. hrevior consists of smaller species, of which the 

 first two, from the middle part of Nippon, have no lunella, while 

 in C. Stearnsii, Addlsoni, Jacobiamc and hondana a lunella is 

 developed, at least in some individuals. 



5. C. brevior v. Mart. Includes C tetrajAiix Mlldff. 



6. C nikkoensis Mlldff. 



7. C. hondana Pils. 



8. C. Stearnsii Pils. 



9. C. Jaeobiana Pils. 



10. C. Addisoni Pils. 



11. C. stereoma Pils. with varieties nar/ax and cocjnata. 



I have elsewhere described and figured C hondana and C. 

 Stearnsii. C. nikkoensis I have not yet seen. The other species of 

 the brevior group are described below. 



In the typical Stereophcedusce there are either several palatal 

 plicre, or only the upper and low'er. In C. hondana, Addisoni, 

 Stearnsii, Jaeobiana and stereoma a low, straight lunella stands 

 between the upper and lower plicie. This lunella, in fully adult 

 individuals, is a smooth ridge, without higher points or irregulari- 

 ties; but in some individuals, viewed from the outside, a row of 

 short light markings is seen, as though a series of palatal plicw 

 stood in place of the lunella. When this is not obvious from the 

 outside, it appears Avhen the shell-wall and lunella are viewed by 

 transmitted light. This indicates local differences in the substance 

 of the shell, affecting its refracting qualities; and it occurred to 

 me that a row of plicre is firsi; formed, and subsequently the spaces 

 between them are filled in. Upon examining specimens of C. 

 Jaeobiana not quite mature, in which the peristome was not fully 

 formed, I found that this was what actually takes place. Such 

 shells have no lunella whatever, but in its place a series of four or 

 five short plicie (Pi. XXXIX, fig. 68). 



These facts indicate that the ancestral Strreophcedus(K had a 




11)01 ] NATURAL 8CIEXCES OF FIIILADELPHIA. 6o9 



palatal armature of short palatal plicte, precisely similar to the 

 structure still extant in certain other groups, Megalophadimt for 

 instance. This became modified in two modes: (1) The interme- 

 diate plicte degenerated, resulting in such forms as typical C. 

 japonica, in which only the upper and lower plicfe remain, or (2) 

 the intermediate plicte coalesced to form a lunella. 



That the loss of an even series of plicte has been a very recent 

 one in Steveophmdasa is indicated by several facts. In species 

 which normally have but two palatal plicre so'metimes individuals 

 or races occur in which small intermediate plicie are developed ;^ 

 and in species with a lunella, the earlier structure of a row of 

 plicte is perfectly developed in the stage of growth immediately 

 preceding the adult stage. 



Incidentally I may observe that the ])erplexiug structural varia- 

 tion I formerly recorded in describing C. hondana is at least par- 

 tially explained by what I find to occur in the Stereophcedusce of 

 Kiushiu and Tane-ga-shima. I was dealing with a small series of 

 shells, part of which were not absolutely mature. 



Clausilia brevior v. Martens. PI. XXXVIII, tigs. 47, 4s, 49, 50, ^A. 



Vou 3Iarten.s. Sitzungsberichfce der Ges. Natnrforsch. Freuiule in Ber- 

 lin, 1877, p. 109. Kobelt, Fauna Moll. Extramar. Jap., p. 78, PI. 9, 

 fig. 4 (bad). 



C. tetrnptyx v. Mollendorff, Journ. Asiatic Soc. Beng., LI, p. 7, PI, 1, fig. 

 7 (188:2); 1885, p. 61. 



This species is not recognizably figured in Kobelt' s work. For 

 the purpose of more exact comparison with C. Addlsoni, a fuller 

 account of the species than has been published is given below. 



The shell is thin, obesely fusiform, much afieniuded and con- 

 cave-sided near the apex, the last three whorls inflated, the last 

 half of the last whorl more or less compressed, often conspicuously 

 narrower than the preceding whorl, as in the " nipponejisis ^ ' form 

 of C. japonica. Pale yellowish brown; sharply, very obliquely 

 striate or rib-striate. Whorls about 9i, the apex minute, but the 

 following whorl disproportionately large; next few whorls very 

 slowly increasing. Aperture squarish-ovate, the peristome ex- 

 panded, somewhat reflexed, thickened and w^hite, hardly free 

 above, the upper margin parallel to Ihe sutures. Superior lamella 

 thin and high, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella which 



''The evidence of this will be presented in a future paper dealing with the 

 C. japonica group of Stereophcedusa. 




H40 riiOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. , 



penetrates to or past the middle of the ventral side. Inferior 

 lamella approaching the superior, forming a strong, subhorizontal 

 fold; inside it ascends with a broad spiral trend, and j)enetrate3 

 nearly or quite as far as the superior lamella. The subcolumellar 

 lamella emerges to the lip-edge. The principal plica is visible 

 <leep in the throat and ascends to a latero-ventral position. Pala- 

 tal plicae three or four, the first and fourth long, oblique ; the 

 second shorter; third very small or wanting, leaving a space. 



Length 14 to 17, diam. 4 mm. (Von Martens' type). 



Length 17.2, diam. 4.3 mm.; length 14, diam. 4 mm.; length 

 13.4, diam. 3.5 mm. ; specimens from Tokyo. 



Length 14. 5, diam. 4.1 mm.; length 12, diam. 3.5 mm.; 

 specimens from Nikko. 



Length 17, diam. 3.7 to 4 mm.; specimen from Numazu, 

 Suruga. 



Clausilium (PI. XXXVIII, figs. 52, 53) short and wide, broadest 

 below, strongly arcuate, a little tapering and thickened at the 

 apex, somewhat excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Misaki, Sagami, at the mouth of the Bay of Tokyo (Hilgen- 

 dorf, type locality); Ashima, Izu (Hirase); Yokohama (B. 

 Schmacker); Tokyo (F. Stearns); Nikko, Shimotsuke (Loomis); 

 Fujisawa (Hungerford, type locality of C. tetraptyx): Isumazu, 

 Suruga (Hirase). 



The small size for a Stereophcedusa, strongly attenuated early 

 whorls, and thin shell are the more prominent differences between 

 ('. hrevlor and other species of the group. 



The area of distribution so far indicated is a rather restricted 

 district in middle Nippon. Mr. Hirase's fruitful researches in the 

 southwestern half of Nippon and in Shikoku have not revealed the 

 species there; uor has it yet appeared from as far north as the 

 Province Uzen, whence a considerable number of small species 

 have been sent. It seems to be a very abundant shell in the region 

 about Tokyo Bay. 



The variety tetraptyx Mlldff. is a little darker brown, the peri- 

 stome brown-tinted, at least in part, the palatal plicie slightly 

 longer than in typical brevior ; but in the lot of some hundreds of 

 specimens I have seen, these characters, except as to the tint of the 

 lip, vary by insensible degrees, so that I do not see that tetraptyx 

 has a valid claim to varietal distinction. One of the original 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 041 



specimens of tetraptyx, collected by Hungerford, is before me, 



kindly lent from the collection of Mr. E, R. Sykes. 



Clausilia Addisoni Pilsbry. PI. XXXVIII, iigs. 5G, 57. 



C. brevior var. Addisoni Pils., these Proceedings for 1900, p. G77 

 (January 28, 1901). C. Addisoni Fils., t. c, p. 502, under C ster- 

 eoma. 



Shell obesely fusiform, much attenuated and with concave out- 

 lines above, inflated below, the last whorl narrower and tapering. 

 Light brown or corneous. Rather strongly and coarsely striate, 

 more coarsely so on the last half whorl. Aperture squarish-ovate, 

 the lip reflexed, somewhat thickened, white. Lamelhe about as 

 in C. hrevior. The subcolumellar lamella barely emerges or is 

 continued to the lip-edge. The three palatal plicre are slightly 

 shorter than in C. hrevior, and there is a very low, subobsolete, 

 straight lunella, or at least a low callous deposit between the second 

 and the lowest plic?e, and connected with the latter. 



Length 18, diam. 4.2 to 4.7 mm., whorls 9^. 



Length 16, diam. 4.5 mm., whorls 9. 



Ari-mura, a village on the southern side of Sakura Island, in 

 Kagoshima Bay (Addison Gulick) ; Kagoshima and Kajima, 

 Satsuma (Mr. Hirase); Isshochi, Higo (Hirase); all in southern 

 Kiushiu. 



This form is very much like ('. brevior, of which I at first con- 

 sidered it a variety. It is slightly stronger, larger than any but 

 the largest specimens of brevior, and difiers in having a callous 

 pad or rudimentary lunella above the lower palatal fold, and in 

 the decidedly coarser striation. The clausilium is thicker at the 

 apex, and the palatal side is more convex (figs. 54, 55). 



Geographically it is very widely separated from all parts of the 

 range of C. brevior; and as Mr. Hirase has not found either 

 species at any of the multitude of intermediate localities explored 

 by him or his collectors, it seems unlikely that there are any con- 

 necting forms in the intermediate territory — the southwestern half 

 of Nippon and northern Kiushiu. 



It is named in compliment to Mr. Addison Gulick, formerly of 

 Osaka. 

 Clausilia Jacobiana r\. sp. PI. XXXIII, figs. 58-r.-> ; PI. XXXIX, figs. 66-09. 



Shell thin, brown, rimate, fusiform, the upper half rapidly 

 tapering, several earlier whorls attenuated, the penultimate whorl 

 41 




642 TROCEEDINGS OF Till-: ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



swolleu, latter half of the last whorl compressed. Surface glossy, 

 sculptured with strong, threadlike oblique strite, 3 or 4 earlier 

 whorls smooth, usually worn or eroded. Whorls 9 to 0^, quite 

 convex, and separated by deeply impressed sutures. • Aperture 

 slighlly oblique, ovate-piriform, the peristome very shortly free 

 above, expanded and reflexed, whitish, slightly emarginate at the 

 position of the superior lamella, the sinulus a little retracted. 

 Superior lamella slender, vertical, continuous with the spiral 

 lamella, which extends iuward to the middle of the ventral side. 

 Inferior lamella forming a rather small but subhorizontal fold, not 

 reaching out upon the hp, extending inward as far as the superior 

 lamella. Subcolumellar lamella varying from barely immersed to 

 rather weakly emerging. Principal plica a half-whorl long, ex- 

 tending from a dorsal position (visible deep in the throat) to a 

 latero-ventral position. Upper and lower palatal plicae rather 

 short, lateral. Below the upper palatal plica there is a delicate 

 second plica, from the outer end of which a low straight lunella 

 runs to the lower palatal plica. 



Length 15.5, diam. 3.6 mm. ; length 13.6, diam. 3.5 mm. 



The clausilium (PI. XXXIII, figs. 61, 62) has the general 

 shape and curvature of that of T*. hrevior and Addisoni, but differs 

 fr(jm both in having the apex more pointed, and it is more concave 

 on the ])alatal side of the apex. The end is also more thickened 

 than in ('. brevior. 



Tane-ga-shima, Osumi. Types No. 82,277 Coll. A. X. S. P., 

 from No. 754 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Yaku-shima, No. 

 778 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is related to (J. Stearnsli Pils. of Okinawa and ( '. 

 Addisoni Pils. of southern Kiushiu. It is much more slender than 

 the latter, with more convex whorls and a more pointed clausilium. 

 (. Stearnsii is a longer species, in which the early whorls are not so 

 attenuated. These three species have a low and more or less well- 

 developed lunella when adult, a structure occurring also in some 

 specimens of C hondana, but otherwise unknown in the StcreopJue- 

 dasi^e of Nippon. In immature shells a row of short palatal plicae 

 stands in place of the lunella (fig. 68). 



This Claimlia has the thin shell of the other species of the 

 brevior group, while all other ClauiiUtc known from Tanc-ga- 

 shima are extremely thick and strong. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELnilA. 643 



It is named in honor of Dr. Arnold Jacobi, author of excellent 

 papers upon the soft anatomy of Japanese snails, the fauual rela- 

 tionships of Japan, etc. 



The specimens from Yaku-shima are more solid than those from 

 Tane-ga-ghima, and the palatal armature seems to be less devel- 

 oped, the lunella being less distinct or absent. There are three 

 palatal plicse below the principal plica, the first, second and lowest. 

 The sculpture and shape are not noticeably different, the largest 

 and smallest sent raeasuriag: 



Length 13.8, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Length 11.3, diam. 3 mm. 



Clausilia stereoma Pilsbry. PI. XXXIX, (igs. 70, 71. 



Pilsbry, these Proceedings for 1901, Vol. LIII, p. 502, with varieties 

 nugax and cognata (October 2, 19Ul). 



Shell rimate, obeselij fusiform, the spire tapering rapidly, its 

 tipper fourth venj slender; thick and e.vtre)nely strong ; olive yellow, 

 glossy; the spire distinctly striate, last two whorls smoother except 

 near the suture. Whorls about 8^, convex, the penultimate whorl 

 swollen, latter half of the last whorl compressed, tapering. 

 Aperture ovate, vertical, flesh-tinted w^thiu; peristome white, 

 reflexed and thickened within, continuous, though almost in con- 

 tact with the preceding whorl above. Superior lamella rather 

 slender, oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior 

 lamella strong, subhorizontal, approaching the superior lamella, 

 strongly spiral within, both spiral and inferior lamellic penetrating 

 to the middle of the ventral side, Subcolumellar lamella emerg- 

 ing but not extending to the lip-edge. Principal plica very short, 

 lateral; palatal plicae four, the upper one long, converging in- 

 wardly toward the principal plica, the lower plica shorter, strong, 

 a little curved; two intermediate plicw minute, punctiform, hardly 

 perceptible. 



Length 2H, diam. G mm. 



Length 19i, diam. 5^ mm. 



Clausilium very short and broad, acuminate and thickened dis- 

 tally, very strongly arcuate (PI. XXXIX, figs. 03-65). 



Yaku-shima, Osumi, in the Northeastern Group of the Piukiu 

 Llan>ls. Types No. 81,737 Coll. A. N. S. P., from Xo. (hO of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This fine species is the most solid and strong Stereophcedma 




644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



kuown. The obese lower whorls and strongly attenuated spire 

 show relationship to C. Adduoni Pils. of Kiushiu, and (\ hrevior 

 V. Mart, of middle Nippon — both com])aratively thin shells. The 

 two intermediate palatal plieie are likely to prove inconstant. 



Clausilia stereoma var. nugax rilsbry. PL XXXIX, figs. 78, 79. 



]\Iuch smaller and more slender than the type, which it resem- 

 bles in color and sculpture. Very solid. 



Length 13^ to 14^, diam. 4 mm. 



Length 16^, diara. 4\ mm. 



Also from Yaku-shima, probably from a different locality. 

 Types No. 81,576 Coll. A. N. S.' P., from No. 671 of Mr. 

 Hi rase' s collection. 



Clausilia stereoma var. cognata Pilsbry. 



Rich reddish-brown, thinner than the types, though still very 

 strong, with about 9 whorls. Palatal plicre four or five, the inter- 

 mediate ones very small. 



Length 23|^, diam. 6^ mm. 



Length 22, diam. 6^ mm. 



Length 21|, diam. 6^^^ mm. 



Tane-ga-shima. Types No. 81,578 Coll. A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 661 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



As in the type, the palatal plicie are often visible through the 

 shell, and from the outside appear longer and more prominent 

 than they are found to be on opening the shell. 



' ' " ''/[ Group of C. entospira. 



Shell thick, small, the inferior lamella thick and squarish below 

 (not forming a spiral fold on the columella, as in other Stereo- 

 2}hiedime), very strongly spiral within; a stout, lunate lunella 

 developed, but no palatal plica) except the principal one. Clau- 

 silium very strongly arcuate, slowly and much tapering below to 

 the subacute, thickened apex, wide above, deeply eraargiuate on 

 the columellar side of the filament. 



The single species known of this very distinct group has obvi- 

 ously arisen from the Stereopha^dusan stock; but it is more special- 

 ized than any other known member of Stereopluedusa, both in 

 palatal armature and clatisilium. 




1901.] >^\TURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPiriA. 645 



Clausilia entospira Pilsbry. ri. XXXIX, figs. 72-75. 



Pilsbry, tlieso Proceedings, Vol. LIII, p. 501 (October 2, 1901). 



Shell rathei" obosely fusiforin, attenuated, with somewhat concave 

 outlines above, extremely thick and strong, nearly .smooth, glossy, 

 the latter half of the last whorl becoming coarsely striate; flesh- 

 colored with buff patches and streaks, eroded in spols. Whorls 

 about 8^, convex, the last tapering below. Aperture long-ovate, 

 the peristome slightly reflexed, very much thickened within, shortly 

 free above. Superior lamella small but rather stout, marginal, 

 very widely separated from the spiral lamella, which is quite small, 

 short and latero-ventral. Inferior lamella receding, in oblique 

 view (fig. 72) appearing very prominent and squarish; very 

 dronrjhj spiral xvltlun, heavily thickened at the lower end, ascend- 

 ing merely to a lateral position. Subcolumellar lamella immersed, 

 interrupted within. Principal plica slender, short and low, lateral. 

 Lunella latero-ventral, oblique, curved, running inward below, 

 tapering at the ends, exces-nvehj thick and strong in the middle. No 

 palatal plicise 



Length scarcely 10, diam. 2.4 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. XXXIX, figs. 76, 77) moderately long, but 

 being strongly curved near the middle, nearly at a right angle, it 

 appears short; distal half rapidly tapering, straight along the 

 palatal, convex at the columellar side, thickened at the apex. 

 Proximal half rather wide and parallel-sided; deeply excised on 

 the columellar side of the filament. 



Tane-ga-shima, Osumi, one of the Xortlieasteru Group of the 

 Riukiu Islands. Types Xo. 82,558 Coll. A. X. S. P., from Xo. 

 663a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A few examples were with the specimens of ('. Pinto. Mr. 

 Hirase remarks that it is very rare. It is an excessively peculiar 

 species, and I was formerly at a loss as to its affinities. The broadly 

 spiral trend of the inferior lamella, which is moreover very short 

 within, the weak, short spiral lamella and principal plica and the 

 peculiar lunella are a cirabination of features unlike any Oriental 

 species known to me. The squarish lower end of the infei'ior lamella 

 is sometimes visible in a front view (fig. 74), but in other speci- 

 mens it recede-9, and is seen, only in oblique view (figs. 72, 73). 

 The clausilium is quite unlike that of any other known Japanese 

 species. The lunella might almost as well be considered a greatly 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. , 



developed lowei' palatal plica, as it is no doubt iu part homologous 

 Avith that. 



The shell is excessively solid aud thick, sti'onger in fact than any 

 other species of such diminutive stature known to me; but unusual 

 solidity is a characteristic of the Clausiliffi of Tane-ga-shima and 

 Yaku-shima, common to the StereopJuedusa', Hemiplwdusa' and 

 TyramioplueduHa' alike, aud clearly to be correllated with some 

 factor in the environment acting upon the entire series. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES XXXV-XXXIX. 



Plate XXXV (Hemiph^edusa). Figs. 1-6. — ClausiUd Mgoensis. Types. 



Figs. 7-10. — Ctausilid ptychocyma. Type. 



Fig. 11. — Clausilia ptychocyma vav. YakusMince. Type. 



Figs. 12-14. — Olaiisilia Pinto. Type. 



Fig8. 15, 16. — Clausilia ischna. Type. 



Plate XXXVI (Tyraxnoph^edusa). Figs. 17-21. — ChtusiUa hilabrata. 

 Specimen-^ Irom Kobe, the type locality. 



Fig. 22. — Clausilia. hilabrata. Specimen retaining the apical whorls, 

 from U.shirogawa, Tosa, No. 81,926 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 23, 24. — Clausilia hilabrata . Specimens from Takaya, in which 

 the snrlace is corroded, covered with algse dorsallv. No. 79,719 Coll. 

 A. N. S. P. 



Fig>. 25-29. — Clausilia surugensis. Types. 



Figs. SO-31. — Clausilia Oscariana. Types. 



Plate XXXVII (Tykaxxoph.edusa). Figs. 32-34.— Claasilia tanega- 

 sMmce. Type. 

 Figs. 35-38. — Clausilia oxycyma. Types. 

 Figs. 39, 40. — Clausilia tanegashitna. Clausilium. 

 Figs. 41, 42. — Clausilia oxycyma. Clausilium. 

 Fig. 43.— Clausilia orthatracta. Clausilium. 

 Figs. 44-46. — Clausilia orthatracta. Type. 



Plate XXXVIII (Stereoph^edusa). Figs. 47, 48. — Clausilia brevier. 

 Specimen from Coll. E. R. Sykes 



Figs. 49-53. — Clausilia brevior. Specimens from Tokyo. No. 18,801 

 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 54-57. — Clausilia Addisoni. Types. 



Figs. 53-62. — Clausilia Jacobiana. Tancgashima, Osumi. 



Plate XXXIX (STEREOPHYf:r)USA). Figs. 03-65. — Clausilia stereoma. 

 Clausilium, Fig. 64, from the coiumellar edge. 



Fig.i. 66-69. — Clausilia Jacobiana. Fig. 68 represents the palatal arma- 

 ture of an immature shell. 



Figs. 70, 71. — Clausilia stereoma. Type. 



Figs. 72. 73. — Clausilia entospira. Fig. 72 is an oblique view in the 

 aperture, from below and the left side. 



Figs. 71-77. — Clausilia entospira. Type. Figs. 76, 77 reconstructed 

 from a broken clausilium. 



Figs. 7S, 79. — Clausilia stereoma var. nugax. Type. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 647 



CATALOGUE OF THE CLAUSILIID5: OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.' 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBKY. 



The general sequence of species in the following list is from 

 primitive to specialized forms; but this end is only imperfectly 

 attained, as there are several highly specialized groups terminating 

 wholly independent phyla, making a serial arrangement quite 

 arbitrary. The forms with narrow clausilium and sevei'al palatal 

 plicte in place of a lunella are the more primitive, retaining the 

 structure of early Tertiary groups. Meg alop heed usa and the typi- 

 cal Hem ij) heed usee are of this kind. Zaptijx, Luchuphcedusa and 

 Ti/rannojjheeelusa seem to be three independent specializations from 

 an early Hemipha^dusan stock. Stereophcvdusa stands a little more 

 remote; while Pseudonenia, Eaphaxlusa and Reinia probably 

 separated from the pro-Hemipha^dusan stock at a still earlier period. 



The East Asiatic ClausiU'uhe are much more closely related to 

 early Tertiary than to modern European groups. The evidence 

 indicates that, like the Belogonous Helicidte, a common stock of 

 Clausiliida: spread over Asia and Europe, at least as early as the 

 Eocene. Subsequent evolution has been along independent lines 

 in the East and the West; and just as I have demonstrated in the 

 Helicidce, the European stock has forged ahead, while the Oriental 

 looks backward, many a group retaining old characters. 



Ninety-three well-established species of Clau-nlia are now known 

 from Japan, more than half of them first described in this journal. 

 Of this number forty-four were brought to light by jVtr. Hirase. 

 The localities of many others, previously uncertain, have been 

 ascertained from specimens collected by him. In addition to these 

 species, thirty-five subspecies or varieties have been described. 

 The list of species is encumbered with eleven additional .specific 

 names, standing for forms so inadequately described that their rela- 

 tionships with other species are not ascertainable from published 



1 Exchisive of Formosa. 




648 rPvOCEEDixGS of the academy of [Dec, 



(lata, though part of them can be identified specifically when 

 specimens jVo^j the original localities come to competent hands. 



Section MEGALOPH.EDUSA. Bttg. 



C. Martensi ' Herklots ' v. Mart. (^ C. yokohaviensis Crosse 



and ('. Reiniana var. , Kob., Jahrb. iii, PI. 5, f. 8). 



Yokohama (Crosse); Hakone Mountains (Schmacker); 



Mikuriya, Suruga; Gojo and Kambe, Yamalo; Kobe, 



Setsu; Kashima, Harima. 

 Form TiNCTiLABRis Pils. Nachi and Tomisato, Kii (Hirase). 

 Var. Reiniana Kobelt. Ibuki, Omi (Hirase); Aichi (U. S. 



Nat. Mus. ). 

 C. MiTSUKURii Pils. Tomisato, Kii.- 

 C. DDCALis Kob. " Interior of Nippon" (Rein); Miya-mura, 



Hida (Hirase), 

 Var. DORCAS Pils. Kiyomi-mura, Hida (Hirase). 

 C. VASTA Bttg. Nagasaki (Rein, Schmacker); Seluchi (Rein); 



Fukuregi, Higo (Hirase). 

 C. FuLTONi Sykes. Shikoku: Kinnayama, type locality; Ushi- 



rogawa, Tosa; Nametoko, lyo; Goto, Uzen (Hirase). 

 C. HiRASEANA Pils. Okiuoshima, Tosa, Shikoku (Hirase). 



Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg. 



Group of C. ralidiusenla. 



C. DECUSSATA V. Mart. Tsukuba-sau, a mountain in Hitachi 



Province, north of Tokyo (Hilgendorf). A species of 



uncertain position in the system. 

 C. VALiDiuscuLA V. Mart. Seluchi, Kiushiu (Rein). 



Var. I!ILa:\iellata Bttg. " Seluchi, between Hiuga and 



Bugo" (Rein). 

 C. l^TERLAMELLARrs V. INIart. Kiushiu. 

 C. .ETHiops Mlldff. Near Nagasaki, Kiushiu. 

 C. viRiDiFLAYA Bttg. "Interior of Japan," "Kiushiu" 



(Rein). 



^Smaller than Martensi; somewhat Buliminus-shaped. Whorls 9J, the 

 upper ones not amputated. Aperture about as in Martensi. Length 29, 

 (liam. 8 mm. 




1901.] >\\TUUAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. G49 



C. HicKoxis Bttg " Interior of Nippon " (Rein). 



Var. BixoDiFERA Bttg. " Interior of Nippon" (Rein). 

 C. NoLANi Pils. Fukura and Ikari, Awaji (Hirase). 

 C. GRACiLisPiRA Mlldff, Near Kobe, Setsu. 

 C. CARYOSTOMA MlldfF. Kobe, Setsu. 



Var. Jayi Pilsbry. Jo, Kii (Hirase). 

 C. TOSANA Pils. Ushirohawa, Tosa, and Nametoko, lyo,^ Sliikoku 



Island. 

 C. Oracle Pils. Nacbi, Kii (Hirase, No. 794). 



Group of C. suhhuiellata. 



C. suBLUNELLATA Mlldff. Nikko Mountains (Hungerford). 

 C. HETEROPTFX Pilsbrv. Toiuisato and Naehi, Kii (Hirase). 

 C, OPEA8 Mlldff^, Nikko Mountains (Hungerford). 

 C. MiCROPEAs Mlldff. Nikko (Hungerford) ; Mikuriya, Suruga 

 (Hirase). 

 Var. PERPALLiDA Pils. Nisbigo, Uzen, 

 Var. HOKKAiDOENSis Pils. Kayabe, Ojima, Hokkaido. 

 C. suBULiNA Mlldff. Nikko Mountains and Lake Chusenji, 

 Sbimotsuke. 

 Var. LEUCOPEAS Pilsbry. Ikoma and Samotonakamura, Kii 

 (Hirase). 

 C. SERiciNA Mlldff. Lake Cbusenji, Sbimotsuke and Yuniagaai- 

 sbi (Hungerford). 

 Var. RiioPALiA Pilsbry. ^Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase). 



Group of (J. hyperoUa. 



C. iiYPEROLiA V. Mart. Uweuo, near Yeddo (Hilgendorf, type 

 locality). Oshima, Izu ; Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase). 

 Var. RECTALUNA Mlldff, Kamatokogiro. 

 Var. APTYCniA Mlldff'. Hakone and Cbusenji. 

 Var. PLANULATA Mlldff'. Kobe. 



Group of C. mvajiensls. 



C. AWAjiENSis Pils. Fukura, Awaji. 



C. HARiMEXSis Pils. Kasbiwa, Harima; Sbirono, Buzen. 



^ In tbe specimens of C. tosana from Nametoko, lyo, the intermediate 

 palatal plicae coalesce to form a somewhat I-shaped lunella. They are a 

 transition form to the group of C. aulacophora. 




650 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OV [DeC, 



C. PERiQNOBiLis Pils. Okinoshinia, Tosa; Dogo, lyo. 

 C. KOCiiiENSis Pils. Kochi, Tosa; ^liuamata and Yatsushiro, 

 Higo; Togo, Satsuma. (C. higoe^uis Pils. is a synonym. ) 

 C. SUBAURANTIACA Pils. Deyai and Toyonishihami, Nagato. 

 C. i.sciiNA Pils. Kochi, Tosa, Shikoku Island. 



Var. XEPTis Pils. Kochi, Tosa. 

 C. iGNOBiLis Sykes. Kinnayama, Shikoku. 

 C. siHKOKUEXsis Pils. Ushirohawa, Tosa, Tairiuji, Awa, and 



Nametoko, lyo, Shikoku Island. 

 C. STRICTALUNA Bttg. Nagasaki (Lischke). 



Var. MAJOR Bttg. Seluclii, between Hiuga and Bugo (Rein). 



Var. XAXA :Mlldff. Nagasaki. 



Group of C. aulacopliora. 



C. AULACOPHORA Pils. Fukura, Awaji (C hrevlluna MWAH.) . 

 0. riGRA Pils. Kashima, Harima (Hirase). 



Group of C. platyauchen. 



C. PLATYAUCHEN V. Mart. (C. fuscmgensis Mlldff. ). Tsukuba- 

 san, a mountain north of Tokyo (Hilgendorf, type local- 

 ity) ; Lake Chusenji (Schmacker) ; Nishigo, Uzen; 

 Mikuriya, Suruga (Hirase) ; Prov. Suruga (F. Stearns); 

 Prov. Yamato (Rein). 



€. ATTRiTA Bttg. Japan (Rein); Ibuki, Omi, and Kiyomi- 

 mura, Hida (Hirase). 

 Var. INFAUSTA Pils. Nachi, Ikoma, and Jo, Prov. Kii 

 (Hirase).^ 



C. HAKONENsrs Pils. Hakone Mountains (B. Schmacker); 

 Oshima, Izu (Hirase). 



C. scHMACKERi Sykes. Kinnayama (Sykes) ; Kochi, Tosa 

 (Hirase); Shikoku Island. 



C. r.uscHii Kiister. Japan (Siebold). Position uncertain. 



C. PLATYDERA V. Mart. Kobi' (Schmacker); Prov. Yamato, at 

 Gose, Matsunotoge, Kambe and Nara, and Hieisan, west 

 of Lake Biwa (A. Gulick!). 

 Var. LAMBDA Bttg. Japan (Rein); Nohara, Yamato (Hirase). 



* Somewhat smaller than altritd ; the subcohimellar lamella immersed, 

 inferior lamella contiuned inward decidedly farther than the si^iral lamella. 

 Other characters substantially as in nttrita. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 651 



Var. KIIENSI8 Pils. Kurozu, Naclii and Tomisato, Prov. Kii 

 (Hirase).^ 



Grovp of C. ptychochi/a. 



C. BERNARDii Pfr. [Siaui ? liiukiu Islands ?] 

 0. CRENiLABiUM Pils. Prov. Kunclian, Okinawa (Hirase). 

 C. PTYCHOCHiLA Bttg. [China ? Kiukiu Islands ?] 

 C. EXCELLENS Pfr. ( ( '. pivrc/ara Gld. preoc. ). Okinawa 

 (U. S. N. P. Exp.). 



Group of C. Pinto. 



C. Pinto Pils. Tane-ga-shima, Osumi (Hirase). 

 C. PTYCHOCYMA Pils. Taue-ga-sliima, Osumi (^Hirase). 

 Var. YAKLTSHiM.E Pils. Yaku-shima, Osumi (Hirase). 



Group of C. munus. 

 C. MUNUS Pils. Oshima, in the Piukiu Islands (Hirase). 



Section ZAPTYX Pilsbiy. 



C. HiRASEi Pils, Kagoshima and Sakura Island, Satsuma 



(Hirase). 

 Var. KiKAiENSisPils. Kikaigashinia, Osumi (Hirase, Nos, 557, 



5576\ 

 C. HYPEROPTYx Pils. Okinawa; Yaeyama (Hirase). 

 C. HACHiJOENSis Pils. Hachijo Island, Izu. 



Section TYEAXNOPH.EDUSA Pilsbry. 



Group of C. mikado. 



C. MIKADO Pils. (C omiemis Mlldff. ). Ibuki, Onii, and Akas- 



aku, Mino (Hirase). 

 C. lOTAPTYX Pils. Ibuki and Ryozen," Omi (Hirase). 



Var. CLAVA Pils. Senzan, A^yaii; Ikoma, Kii (Hii-ase). 

 C. ORTHATRACTA Pils. Akasaka, Mino (Hirase). 



^Smaller than platydera ; more swollen below and more attenuate above- 

 Whorls 8i-10. Lenfith 16-17, diani. 4i mm. 



"Specimens of C. iotapti/x irom liyozen, Omi, have 12 to 13 whorls, but 

 otherwise are like the types from Ibuki, Omi. The shells from Ikoma, Kii, 

 are somewhat intermediate between iotaptyx and clava, but nearer the latter. 




652 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



C. AURANTiACA Bttg. "Interior of Nippon" (Rein); Kobe 



(Schmacker) ; Naclii, Kii, Ikari, Awaji, and Suimura, 



Awa (Hirase), 

 Var. HYPOPTYCHiA Pils. Kashima, an iskind near Tanabe, 



Kii (Hirase).' 

 Var. Eeberi Bttg. (minor MMR.). Nara, Nohara and Gojo, 



Yaraato; Chlkubushima, iuLakeBiwa; Kashiraa, Harinia; 



Tomisato, Aiga, and Kurozu, Kii (Hirase). 



Group of ('. bllabrata. 

 C. PLiciLABRis A. Ad. Tanabe, Kii. (Subgeneric position 



doubtfuk ) 

 C. BiLABRATA Smith. Kobi', type locality; southern half of 

 Nippon; Shikoku, Kiushiu and Iki Islands. 

 Var. RTYCHOL.EMA Bttg. " Seluchi, between Hinga and 

 Bugo " (Rein). 

 C. OscARiANA Pils. Fukuregi, Higo, Kiushiu (Hirase). 

 C. suRUGESSis Pils. Mikuri3'a, Suruga (Hirase). 



Group of C. tanegashima'. 



C. OXYCYMA Pils. Kagoshima, Satsuma, in southern Kiushiu 



(Hirase). 

 C. TANEGASHiM.E Pils. Tane-ga-shima and Yaku-shiuia, Osumi 



(Hirase). 



Section LUCHUPH/EDUSA Pilsbry. 



C. CALLiSTOCHiLA Pils. Prov. Kunchan, Okinawa (Hirase). 



C. MIMA Pils. Oshima, Rinkiu Islands (Hirase). 



C. NESiJTHAUMA Pils. Oshima, Riukiu Islands (Hirase). 



C. 0SHiM.EPiIs. Nase, Oshima (Hirase). 



C. PSEUDOSiiiM.E Pils. Furuniya, Oshima (Hirase). 



Section STEREOPH/EDUSA Bttg. 

 Group of C. valida. 

 C. VALIDA Pfr. Okinawa. 



Var. FASCiATA Sykes. Okinawa. 



Var. PERFASCIATA Pils Pro\\ Kunchan, Okinawa. 



Var. STRiATELLA Pils. Okinawa. 



'Larger than aurantiaca, with narrower, less developed lip, more whorls, 

 and several plica in the subcolumelhir ret^ion. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHrA. 653 



Group of C. japordca. 



C. JAPONICA Crosse. Middle aud southern Nippon; AAvaji and 

 Shikoku Islands. (Includes ('. kobensis Smith, type loe. 

 Kobe; C. nipponensis Kobelt; aud C. eury stoma v. Mart., 

 type loe., Tsukuba-sau, a mountain north of Yeddo, in 

 Hitachi Province, Hilgendorf. ) 

 Var. FALLENS INIDdff, " Koma-kasunga." 

 Var. PEROBscuRA Pils. Shirono, Buzen (Hirase). 

 Var. iNTERPLiCATA Pils. Nishigo, Uzen; Takeya, Idzumo; 

 Kyozen, Omi (Hirase). 



C.^MiLGENDORFi V. Mart. Prov. Idzumo (Hilgendorf). 



C OOSTOMA Mlldff. Hakoue (? ('. japonica var surugce Pils. + 

 ('. eurystoma subsp. hrachyptyehia Mlldff., both from 

 Mikuriya, Suruga; also occurs at Kashiwa, Awaji). 



C. SUBJAPONICA Pils. {= ('. fultoni subsp. clavula Mlldff.). 

 Ibuki, Omi; Tomisato, Kii (Hirase). 



Group of C. hrevior. 



C. BREViOR V. Mart. (('. tetraptyx Mlldff.). Misaki, Sagami 

 (Hilgendorf); Yokohama (Schmacker) ; Tokyo (Stearns); 

 Nikko, Shimotsuke (Loomis) ; Oshima, Izu, and Goto, 

 Uzen (Hirase). 

 C. NiKKOENSis Mlldff. Near Nikko (Eastlake). 

 C. HONDANA Pils. Coast of Prov. Suruga (F. Stearns). 

 C. Jacobiana Pils. Tane-ga-shima and Yakushima, Osumi 



(Hirase). 

 C. Addisoni Pils. Provinces Satsuma and Higo, Kiushiu. 

 C. S EARNSii Pils. Okinawa; Yayama (Hirase, Stearns). 

 C. STEREOMA Pils. Yakushima, Osumi, south of Kiushiu. 



Var. COGNATA Pils. Tane-ga-shima, Osumi, south of Kiushiu. 

 Var. NUGAX Pils. Yaku shima. 



Group of C. eritospira. 



C. EN.ospiRA Pils. Tane-ga-shima (Hirase). 



Section PSEUDONEXIA Boettger. 



C. siEBOLi>i Pfr. Kashiwashima, Tosa; Toyonishikami, Nagato; 

 Sasebo, Hizen; Yatsushiro, Higo (Hirase). 




<io4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. , 



Section EUPH^DUSA Boettger. 

 Group of C. jos. 

 C. SUB9IBBERA Bttg. Japau. 



C. EXPAXSILABRIS Bttg. 



Var STKOPiio^TOMA Bttg. laterior of Nippon (Rein). 

 Var. NANA Bttg. Interior of Nippon (Rein). 

 C. ONCAUCHEN Mlldfl. Tsu-sliima (Fruhstorfer). 



Group of ('. shanghaiensis. 



C. ACQLUS Bans.' Nagasaki (Rein) ; also China. 



C, DiGONOPTYX Bttg. " Interior of Nippon " (Rein); Manabe, 



Hitachi; Takasaki, Kozuke; Yaraaguchi, Tajinia; Nishigo, 



Uzen. 

 C. TAU Bttg. (C. j)roha Mlldff., 1885, not A. Ad.). Kyoto 



(Rein, Hirase); Nohara and Gojo, Yamato; Takasaki, 



Kozuke (Hirase) ; Tokyo ; Yokohama. 

 C. COMES Pils. Kashinia, Harima (Hirase). 

 C. Tryoni Pils. Hachijo Island, Izu (Hirase). 



Group of ('. Hungerfordlana. 



C. HuNGERFORDiANA Mlldff. Nara, Yamato. 

 C. MONELASML's Pils. Kayabe, Ojiraa, Hokkaido. 



Group of ('. euholodoma. 



C. EUHOLOsroMA Pils. IMikuriyn, Suruga (Hirase). 

 C. HOLOTREMA Pils. Nachi, Kii (Hirase).* 



Section IJEINIA Kobelt. 



C. VARiEGATA (A. xVd. ). " Tago " (A. Ad.); Uweno, near 

 Tokyo; Tokyo; Takasaki, Prov. Kozuke; Hirado, Hizen. 

 Var. NESioncA Pils. Hachijo Island, Izu. 



* C. holotrema resembles G. euholostoma, but is larger, purplish-brown 

 with a yellow bslt below the sutures, the bise yellowish. ^Principal and 

 I)alatul pliciie longer. Whorls 8|. xilt. 12, diam. o."2 mm. 




190].] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 655 



Species of unknoivn suhgeneric positio)i. 



The following forms have been too imperfectly characterized to 

 permit their reference to siibgeneric groups: 

 C. ciNCTicoLLis Ehrmann. Province Tosa, Shikoku. 

 C. CRASSiLAMELLATA Ehrmann. Province Tosa, Shikoku. 

 C. GouLDii A.. Adams. Tago. 

 C. IJIM.E Ehrmann. Province Tosa, Shikoku. 

 C. LiRULATA A. Adams. Mososeki. 

 C. XODULIFERA V. Mart. Nippon, probably from near Yeddo 



(Donitz). Based upon a single, perhaps abnormal, 



specimen. 

 C. PiNGUis A. Adams. Kiuo-o-sima. 

 C. PROBA A. Adams. Kino-o-sima. 

 C. SPRETA A. Adams. Tago. 

 C. STENOSPIRA A. Adams. Kino-o-sima. 

 C. sriMPSONi A. Adams. Tsu-sima and Awa-sima. 



APPENDIX. 



The following species have been received since the preparation 

 of the foregoing list, bringing the, number of I'ecognized species to 

 99, with 37 subspecies or varieties ; exclusive of 11 species of inde- 

 terminate position, enumerated above. 



Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg. 



C. !?UBiGNOBiLis Pils." Hirado, Hizen (Y. Hirase). 

 C. TANTILLA Pils.'° Goto, Uzen (Y. Hirase). 



' O. snbignobilis n.sp. Rather stout, fusiform, light brown, lightly 

 striate, compoieil of 9^ \vhorls. Spire strongly attenuated above, the apex 

 small. Aperture subfrapezoidal, the lip reflexed and thickened. Superior 

 lamella rather small, infeiior very deeply receding, subcolumeliar emerging. 

 Principal plica rather short. Lunella lateral, arcuate or bow-shaped. 

 Length 15, diam. 3.3 mm. Like C. ignobilis Syke.-;, but with smaller 

 tarly whorls. 



^° 0. tantllla n.sp. Small, brownish, fusiform, striatulate, the last 

 whorl distinctly striate ; whorls 8, the second nither large. Apertun* 

 small, squarish-ovate, the lip well retiexed, somewhat thickened. Superior 

 lamella small, iuferior deeply receding, subcolumeliar either immersed or 

 emerging. Luuella oblique, united above with the middle of a short upper 

 palatal plica. Length 9.5, diam. ?..5 mm. 




656 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. , 



C. AULACOPOMA Pils." Hirado, Hizen (Y. Hirase). 

 C. BioENERi?) Pils.'- Goto, Uzen (Y. Hirase). 



Section TYRAXNOPH^EDUSA Pils. 

 C. DALLi Pils/' Tairiuji, Awa, Shikoku Island (Y. Hirase), 



Section STEREOPH^DUSA Bttg. 

 C. UNA Pils.H Goto, Uzen (Y. Hirase.) 



1' C. aulaco'poma n.sp. Fusiform, slowly tapering above to a subacute 

 apex, light reddish brown, -weakly striatulate, the last whorl somewhat pro- 

 duced forward. Whorls 9^. Aperture piriform, the lip well reflexed, thick- 

 ened. Superior lamella low ; inferior deeply receding ; subcolumellar 

 emerging to the lip-edge. Principal plica long. Upper palatal plica short, 

 joined in the middle to the lunella, which is curved inward below (j-like), 

 with a nodule at its inner termination. Clausilium somewhat spout-like 

 disfally, but wider there than in species of the ptycltocftila group. 



12 C. biyencris n.sp. About the size and shape of C. ignobilis ; pale- 

 brownish, faintly striate. Subcolumellar lamella immersed ; lip broadly re- 

 flexed. Principal plica rather short, dorsal and lateral ; upper palatal 

 plica oblique, almost joined in the middle to a long, slender lunella, the 

 lower end of which curves far inward. Length 14.3, diam. 3.5 mm. 



^' G. Dalli n.sp. With the general form of (J. inikado, the aperture is 

 much as in C. iotaptyx. Whorls 14 to 16. The subcolumellar lamella 

 emerges stronglj^, and sometimes the lip is puckered above it. Lunella as 

 in C. hilabrata. Length 18.5, diam. 4 mm. Thi.s excee<lingly peculiar 

 many-whorled Clausilia belongs to the group of G. bilabrata by its palatal 

 armature, but in contour it resembles species of the group of G. mikddo. 



1* G. una, n.sp. General contour of G. oostoma MUdlL, pale yellowish- 

 corneous, striate. Whorls Hi. Entire inferlamellar margin of the lip 

 closely and deeply plicate. Upper palatal plica short, oblique ; lower long 

 and arcuate, a short, rudimentary lunella rising from it. An extraordinary 

 fStereop/iwdusa, with' interlamellar p ication like Luchujj/nedusd callisto- 

 chila. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 657 



ZYGEUPOLIA LITORALIS, A NEW HETERONEMERTEAN. 

 BY CAROLINE BURLING THOMPSON, PH.IX 



I. Introduction. 



At the end of August, 1899, four specimens of Zygeupolia litor- 

 alis were discovered by the writer at Wood's Hole, Mass. The 

 following summer the worms wei'e found in great abundance in the 

 same locality, and from fifty to one hundred specimens were 

 obtained. 



The work on this paper has been mostly done in the Zoological 

 Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania, under the direction 

 of Prof. E. G. Conklin and Asst. Prof. T. H. Montgomery, Jr., 

 and it is a pleasure to express my thanks to both for their interest 



^ Contribution from' the Zoological Laboratory of the University of 

 Pennsylvania. 



42 




658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec.^ 



and generous assistance. To Dr. ISIontgomery, who has more di- 

 rectly supervised my work and kindly helped me in many ways, I 

 am especially grateful. I would also thank Dr. C. O. Whitman for 

 the courtesies extended me at the Marine Biological Laboratory at 

 Wood's Hole, and I am indebted to Dr. Wesley R. Coe for many 

 kindnesses. 



Methods. — Owing to the great contractility of the Neraerteans, 

 it is best to use some stupefying agent before fixation, otherwise 

 the specimen becomes so twisted that it is unfavorable for section- 

 ing. After removing the shme sheaths with a needle, the worms 

 were usually placed in a shallow dish of sea-water, and crystals of 

 magnesium sulphate were slowly added. If dropped in too quickly 

 they will irritate the worms and fragmentation will occur. In this 

 solution the worms were left until they ceased to respond when 

 touched, the time varying from one and a half to three hours, 

 according to the amount of the sulphate. When the worms were 

 sufficiently relaxed the water was drawn off, and the killing fluid 

 added; or they Avere lifted out of the water with brushes and 

 placed in the fixative. 



The fixatives used are (1) corrosive sublimate, a concentrated 

 solution in fifty per cent, alcohol, for thirty minutes; an excellent 

 general fixative, and one that has been extensively used in this 

 Avork. (2) Gilson's mercuro-nitric mixture, formula ac<;ording 

 to Lee (1896), for about half an hour; to be highly recom- 

 mended, especially for the structure of gland cells and connective 

 tissue. (3) Flemming's fluid (chromo-aceto-osmic acid), for 

 twenty-four to sixty hours; especially good for nerve tissue and 

 cilia. (4) Flemming's fluid (stronger mixture), for forty-eight 

 hours, followed by pyroligneous acid for twenty-four hours. After 

 employing this method the material may be sectioned and mounted 

 without staining. It is excellent for tracing nerves, and for the 

 gross anatomy of most parts, but it is not adapted for histological 

 or cytological details, except for cilia. Specimens fixed in this way 

 may afterward ^be stained with iron-hiematoxylin, but the results 

 are not so good as when Flemming's fluid alone is used. (5) 

 Ninety -five per cent, alcohol ; a good fixative, except for the body 

 epithelium. 



The stains used are Ehrlich's h?ematoxyhn, undiluted, fifteen 

 minutes to one hour, washed with alcohol containing a few drops 




1901.] NATITRAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 659 



of ammonia and followed by eosin in concentrated aqueous solu- 

 tion, three to five minutes. This is the stain that has been most used, 

 and is a very satisfactory one. The longer time in hoematoxylin 

 is best for nerve fibrous tissue and epithelial structures. The 

 Biondi-Ehrlich mixture, three hours, has been employed, but is 

 not very satisfactory except for connective tissue. The iron- 

 hrematoxyliu method together with Bordeaux red is an excellent 

 stain after a Flemming fixation, and the Hermann triple stain — 

 saffronin twenty-four hours, gentian violet six minutes, iodine 

 three hours — has also been used. 



Habitat. — Zygeupolla was found at Wood's Hole, in a sandy 

 beach of limited extent, bordering on a little arm of Buzzard's Bay 

 that is sepax-ated from the main bay by the point of land known 

 as Penzance. Here, just in the angle made by the bay shore and 

 Penzance, the sand has drifted in, replacing the usual stony or peb- 

 bly beach; and in this small area, which is uncovered at low tide, 

 are found, together with many other marine worms, especially 

 Annelids, several genera and species of Nemerteans. Both Gere- 

 hratulm leidyi Verr. and C. ladem Verr. occur there, but the 

 latter not abundantly; Mlcrura cceca Verr., Cephalothrix linearis 

 Oers. and Carinoma tremaphoros Thomp. With such a rich supply 

 of material in a spot very convenient to the INIarine Biological 

 Laboratory, it seemed unprofitable at that time to work over any 

 other localities, so I am unable to say anything in regard to the 

 distribution of Zygeupolia. Dr. Coe found this genus last sum- 

 mer in Quisset Harbor, about two miles farther north on Buzzard's 

 Bay, in a very similar habitat. 



When the sand, either above or below the low-water mark, is 

 turned over, Zygeupolia may be found, usually about a foot below 

 the surface. The turning up of the sand frequently breaks the 

 worm, but a number of })erfect specimens have been preserved. 



The Living Worm. — In life the worms vary considerably in 

 length, chiefly owing to different states of contraction, so that it is 

 difficult to say accurately what the true length is. The same worm 

 seems to have two normal states, beside that of actual contraction. 

 The first is that of comparative rest, seen in PI. XL, figs. 5, 

 6, which are sketches from living worms. In this condition, as 

 when lying undisturbed in a dish of water, the average length is 

 from 6-8 cm. . But Avhen in motion, crawling along the sides of 

 the dish, the worm becomes greatly extended, so that the indi- 




660 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



vidual that in rest measured 6-8 cm. may now be 10-12 cm. or 

 longer. 



A change in color accompanies the elongation. At rest 

 the body has a decidedly pink color ; in extension the body is more 

 transparent and dull brownish. This may be seen by comparing 

 the extended worm in fig. 4 with figs. 5 and 6. As the pink color 

 is most pronounced in the contracted condition, becomes less so at 

 rest and disappears in extension, it is probably due to muscular 

 contraction. The width varies in different specimens from 

 1^3 mm. ; it also varies in the same specimen according to the 

 state of contraction. 



In the living worm, PJ. XL, figs. 4, 5, 6, four different re- 

 gions may be distinguished: (1) the head, (2) the anterior part 

 of the body, (3) the posterior part of the body, and (4) the 

 caudicle. 



The head is about 6 mm. long, not sepai'ated from the body, 

 pure white and tapering to a very fine point. There are no lateral 

 slits, the ciliated pits of the cerebral organs opening directly to the 

 exterior. The mouth is a very small round opening on the ven- 

 tral surface. The shape and color of the head, together with the 

 absence of lateral slits, are good criteria for determining the genus. 



The anterior part of the body is the region extending from the 

 mouth to the beginning of the lobed middle intestine. The length 

 is from 1^3^ cm., and the color varies from pale yellow to pink- 

 ish. It is rounded and more or less swollen, owing to the presence 

 there of the greater part of the proboscis. 



The posterior part of the body is the most extensive. It is 

 somewhat flattened in life but is always rounded in preserved speci- 

 mens. The color varies from rose color to pale yellow, light 

 brown and chocolate brown, A pinkish median line on the dorsal 

 surface represents the rhynchoco}! ; the alternating cross lines of 

 light and dark on each side of the median line, fig. 5, are the 

 gonads and intestinal cseca respectively. 



A series of observations were made to ascertain if there are 

 any appreciable color variations corresponding with sexual ma- 

 turity or difference of sex. The conclusions reached are (1) that 

 there is no difference in the color of sexually mature and immature 

 individuals, except that the increased size of the gonads in the 

 mature specimen causes the cross lines mentioned above to be more 

 pronounced; (2) that the general color of the body is the same for 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 661 



males and females; (3) that the color of the inteslinal cieca is de- 

 pendent upon the amount and character of the food contents. The 

 intestine in freshly taken worms is much darker in color than in 

 specimens that have been kept in an aquarium for several days 

 without food. 



The caudicle in life appears as a slender white thread at the 

 posterior end of the body, figs. 4, 5, 6. It is usually much 

 twisted and is easily broken oft". It should be mentioned here that 

 in none of the four specimens that were first obtained in 1899 was 

 the caudicle preserved, so that the presence of this appendage is 

 not mentioned in my preliminary note, Thompson (1900 a). 



The wdiite spots in the posterior part of the worm, slightly exag- 

 gerated in fig. 6, are parasites and will be described under that 

 heading. 



On account of its transparency the living worm is a most favor- 

 able and interesting object for study with the low powers of the 

 microscope. It should first be slightly stupefied to prevent exces- 

 sive movements and contractions, so that when it is placed on the 

 slide with a few drops of sea-water and covered, the muscles 

 relax and it lies quietly there, fully extended. With a magnifica- 

 tion of about 70 diameters, it is possible to study the brain lobes and 

 commissures, the cerebral organs, the blood vessels of the head, 

 the proboscis and rhyuchoda}um, the alimentary system and the 

 gonads. In only two cases could the nephridia be distinguished, 

 but nothing was determined as to their structure. Several attempts 

 were made to study the worm by treatment with methylen blue, 

 after the method of Burger (1891, p. 327, footnote), but without 

 success. 



The results obtained from the study of the organs in life will be 

 incorporated in the several sections relating to the different organ 

 systems. 



II. Anatomy. 



Body Wall.— a. Body Epithelium. — The body epithelium, fig. 

 2, is a high one-celled layer, consisting of ciliated supporting cells, 

 S.C, and gland cells, Gl.-i, GL^, resting upon a basement layer, 

 B.L. Interstitial connective tissue cells are always present in 

 varying numbers between the bases of the epithelial elements. 



The supporting cells, fig. 1-1, are about .035 mm. in height, 




662 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. , 



brotul at the free distal eiuls where the cilia are borne, and taper- 

 ing proxinmlly to a slender stalk, st., which constitutes about two- 

 thirds of the length. In fig, 15, drawn from a sublimate prepara- 

 tion, the stalk is somewhat shrunken and appears less than half 

 the length of the expanded distal part; in fig. 14, a Flemming's 

 fluid preparation, the stalks are relatively longer, and probably 

 more as they appear in life. The oval nucleus, N., lies in the 

 tapering part of the cell, just above the stalk. The chromatin 

 forms a prominent reticulum. 



The cilia, CiL, are about as long as the expanded distal part of 

 the cell. Each cilium is composed of several parts. The basal 

 knob, fig. 14, b.k., rests on the distal surface of the cell, and is 

 connected by a fine thread with a second smaller granule, the 

 upper knob, u.k., which bears the terminal hair of the cilium. 

 The cilium is continued into the cytoplasm by a line of very fine 

 granules, fig. 14, x., which seem to reach the nucleus. This, 

 however, can only be seen with a very high magnification. 



The gland cells are abundant in the body epithelium, and are 

 uniformly distributed throughout the body. Two types may be 

 distinguished, in the first the secretion stains with eosin, fig. 2, 

 Gl.i, in the second with hsematoxylin, fig. 2, Gl... In both types 

 a delicate cell membrane is present, the nucleus is small and lies at 

 the base of the cell embedded in cytoplasm. The relative amounts 

 of cytoplasm and secretion depend upon the phase of the cell. 

 In fig. 2 the blue- staining cell on the left contains less secretion 

 and more cytoplasm, and is therefore in an earlier phase than the 

 blue-staining cell to the right. In like manner, the red-staining 

 cell on the right of the figure contains less secretion and is in an 

 earlier stage than the red-staining cell on the left. The red-staining 

 secretion is homogeneous, evidently fluid or viscous ; the blue- 

 staining secretion apparently contains flaky masses within a fluid. 

 The latter cells are more apt to assume the flask-like shape, the 

 former are oftener rod- shaped. Cells are frequently found with 

 the secretion entirely discharged from the delicate cell membrane, 

 the nucleus remaining at the base. 



The basement layer, fig. 2, B.L., separates the epithelial cells 

 from the underlying musculature. It is not a true basement mem- 

 brane, being not the product of the bases of the epithelial cells, 

 but a formation from the interlacing fibres of connective tissue 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



cells. The nuclei of the component connective tissue cells are seen 

 with difficulty, but occur here and there embedded in the fibres. 

 With a low power the basement layer has a homogeneous, rather 

 gelatinous appearance, but with higher magnification its true fibrous 

 structure is seen. The avei'age height of the basement layer in the 

 head region is about .006 mm., but it is not a layer of uniform 

 thickness, for its outer surface is thrown into a series of small eleva- 

 tions and depressions. The ridges on the surface bear the stalks 

 of the supporting cells, while the gland cells are inserted into the 

 pits or _ depressions. The basement layer does not stain with 

 hsematoxylin-eosin, but takes a faint pink with the Biondi-Ehrlich 

 stain. 



An epithelial musculature of circular muscle fibres, fig. 2, 

 Ei^.m., is present immediately beneath the basement layer. It is 

 especially well developed in the head region, consisting of a num- 

 ber of fibres like those of the body wall. Posterior to the oesopha- 

 geal region the epithelial muscle layer becomes very thin and finally 

 disappears, but reappears at the posterior end of the body. 



h. The Cutis. — The cutis is defined by Burger (1895) as the 

 subepithelial glandular layer, usually containing numerous nmscle 

 fibres, which is found in the Heteronemerteans. 



In Zygeupolia any distinction between the outer longitudinal 

 muscle layer and the cutis would be merely an artificial one. The 

 fibres of the outer longitudinal muscle layer extend from the cir- 

 cular layer out to the epithelium of the body wall, and although 

 subepithelial gland cells are present, frequently in great numbers, 

 they are not restricted to the peripheral portion of the layer, but 

 often extend in as far as the circular muscle. It is thus evident 

 that in Zygeupolia the term cutis is synonymous with outer longi- 

 tudinal muscle layer. In this respect Zygeupolia differs greatly 

 from the genus Eupolia, in which a cutis distinct from the outer 

 longitudinal muscle layer is present. 



The finer structure of the cutis, or of the outer longitudinal 

 muscle layer, may be seen in fig. 2. Each longitudinal muscle 

 fibre, L.M.j., is surrounded by a sheath of connective tissue, com- 

 posed of the slender processes of the connective tissue cells which 

 are present between the muscle fibres. These cells are greatly 

 branched, their nuclei, Cn.T.N., are oval, and contain a small 

 amount of chromatin. Slender radial muscle fibres, r.m.f., trav- 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



erse the cutis, aud here aud there detached circularly running 

 fibres, M.S., occur. 



The subepithelial gland cells, or, as Burger terras them, the cutis 

 gland cells, are present throughout the body in the outer longitu- 

 dinal muscle layer. Two, and possibly three, types of glands may 

 be distinguished. 



The first type is a multinucleate structure, fig. 2, Cu.Gl.2, stain- 

 ing with hematoxylin. Such a gland is the probable result of the 

 fusion, phylogenetically, of several simple cells. The proximal 

 portion resembles a bunch of grapes, each grape representing a cell 

 with its nucleus ; the distal part is a long, slender duct, opening to 

 the exterior between the epidermal cells. The length of the blue- 

 staining cells varies in different parts of the body. In the head 

 region, fig. 2, they are very long, extending in from the epithe- 

 lium nearly to the rhynchodajum. In the posterior part of the 

 body, fig. 15, Cu.Gl.2, their length has diminished more than 

 one-half. 



The second type is a cell, staining red with eosin, having the 

 shape of a very slender flask with a long neck, figs. 2, 15, 

 CuGl.i. Only one nucleus is present, at the basal end of the cell, 

 and a delicate cell membrane may be distinguished. 



Two quite distinct appearances have been observed in the red- 

 staining cells. These may be morphologically different cells, or 

 merely phases of the one type. In the one, figs. 2, 15, (Ju.Gl.i, 

 the granules are very fine, close together, and stain a rose red ; in 

 the other, fig. 15, Chi.Gl.n, the granules are large, rounded and a 

 brighter, more metallic red. The facts that no transition stages 

 have been observed, and that the two varieties have a slightly 

 different distribution, may indicate that they are morphologically 

 different. 



The distribution of the cutis gland cells is a point of some in- 

 terest and, so far as I am aware, has not been worked out in any 

 detail among the other Nemerteans. In certain parts of th6 body 

 the gland cells are aggregated into very prominent zones, and it 

 seems probable that these glandular areas have some important 

 physiological function, which is as yet undetermined, aside from 

 the usual one of producing the slime sheath for the body. 



Diagram 1 illustrates the distribution of the cutis gland cells. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



665 



It is seen here that the most 

 anterior part of the head is 

 entirely free from cutis gland cells, 

 but that about 0.5 mm. behind 

 the tip the blue-staining cells 

 are very abundant, distributed 

 uniformly on all surfaces of 

 the body. The red -staining 

 cells occur in small numbers 

 and ax'e mostly on the ventral 

 surface; they are of the finely 

 granular variety. From the 

 mouth back to some distance be- 

 hind the nephridia the blue- 

 staining cells are quite numer- 

 ous, interspersed with the red- 

 staining cells. Just behind the 

 great rhynchoccelomic expansion, 

 where the circular muscle of the 

 body wall is considerably thick- 

 ened, comes a region that might 

 properly be called a glandular 

 zone, Gl.Z., owing to the enorm- 

 ous increase in the number of 

 the cutis gland cells. The 

 whole outer longitudinal muscle 

 layer is so crowded with them 

 that in a cross section the muscle 

 fibres seem nearly obliterated. 

 The cells increase also in size, 

 or perhaps are more distended 

 with secretion. The blue-stain- 

 ing cells are more abundant 

 than the red. This zone ex- 

 tends backward for about 3 mm. , 

 then suddenly ends, just in front 

 of the two lateral grooves, L. G. 



In the lateral groove region, fig. 

 23, Ca.Gl.,, Cu.Gl.,, the blue 

 cells are confined to two tracts, one 

 on eacn side of the body, above 

 the lateral nerves. The red-stain- 

 ing cells are in four tracts, dorsal 



LG 



Diagram 1. — The head and part of 

 the body of ZygeupoUa, illustrating 

 the distribution of the cutis gland 

 cells. — The outline of the alimen- 

 tary tract is given as a means of 

 orientation. Gl.■^, red-staining cu- 

 tis gland cell ; Gl..^, blue-staining 

 cutis gland cell ; Gl.Z., glandular 

 zone; L.G., lateral groove; M., 

 mouth. 




666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



and veutral to the lilue tracts. The red -staining cells in this 

 region and in the preceding glandular zone are of the coarse granu- 

 lar variety. 



After the beginning of the middle intestine and its pouches, the 

 l)lue-staining cells are no longer present, except at the most poste- 

 rior end of the body. The four tracts of red-staining cells, how- 

 ever, continue along the entire length of the intestine. Owing to 

 the increased size of the intestinal cieca and the gonads, the body 

 wall is stretched and the muscular layers are thin, so that the red 

 gland cells can reach down only a short distance, and are conse- 

 quently short, often appearing more like epithelial cells. 



At the extreme posterior end of the body both red and blue 

 cells are present in great numbers all around the body. The red 

 cells are the more abundant, and are considerably larger than the 

 blue (see fig. 15). Both fine and coarse varieties occur. 



There is no cutis in the caudicle, so that cutis gland cells are 

 necessarily absent. 



c. The Body Musculature. — The entire region of the head in 

 front of the brain, Plate XLI, fig, 18, from the epithelium, Ep., in 

 to the rhynchodseum, Rd., is made up of longitudinal muscle fibres, 

 L.M., with interlacing radial muscle fibres, r.m.J. Except for the 

 cerebral nerves, C.N., and the cutis gland cells, Cu.Gl.2, and 

 probably some very fine blood lacunse, no other organs are present. 

 The wall of the rhynchodieum, which will be described under that 

 heading, contains four stout bundles of longitudinal muscle, Ed. 31. 



Just anterior to the attachment of the proboscis to the body 

 wall, the inner ends of the radial fibres interlace more 

 closely about the rhyuchodreum, until a ring of circular muscle, 

 fig. 18, CM., is formed, which becomes the circular mus- 

 cle of the proboscis sheath. Behind the attachment of the 

 proboscis, fig. 19, y., the outermost circular fibres separate off 

 from the rest, thus forming the circular muscle of the body 

 wall, fig. 19, CM., outside the proboscis sheath. The longitu- 

 dinal fibres lying between, fig. 20, i.L.M., represent the be- 

 ginning of the inner longitudinal muscle. 



Both dorsal and ventral brain lobes, fig. 19, D.L. and V.L., lie 

 outside the circular muscle, CM., in the outer longitudinal layer; 

 but the cerebral organs, fig. 21, C Org., which are directly behind 

 the dorsal lobes and receive their nerve supply from them, lie within 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 667 



the circular muscle, in the iuuer longitudinal layer. At the pos- 

 terior end of the dorsal lobes the followiug changes may be uoted. 

 The circular fibres, figs. 19, 20, CM., at first all ruu along the 

 inner surface of the end of the dorsal ganglion and beginning of 

 the cerebral organ, then a few fibres bend out and curve around 

 the sense organ on its outer side, until finally all the muscle fibres 

 lie ou the outside of the cerebral organ, fig. 21, CM. The ven- 

 tral ganglia lie as before, outside the circular muscle. 



Just in front of the mouth a strong baud of muscle, fig. 21, 

 H.M., runs from side to side, beneath the rhyuchocoel and above 

 the median blood vessel. 



In the oesophageal region, fig. 22, there is nothing unusual in 

 the structure of the muscle layers; the outer longitudinal, o.L.M., 

 is the thickest, and next the circular, CM. This arrangement 

 continues past the nephridia into the region of the expanded rhyn- 

 choctel, where all layers of the body wall are greatly stretched, 

 and consequently very thin. 



A short distance anterior to the middle intestine the rhyncho- 

 coelomic dilation ceases aud the diameter of the rhynchocwl is about 

 equal to that of the oesophageal region, while its walls are fre- 

 quently folded and constricted. In this part of the body the cir- 

 cular muscle of the body wall becomes greatly thickened (see Plate 

 XLIV, fig. 62, CM.). 



Inner Circular Muscle. — Fig. 23, Plate XLI, is a cross section 

 of the body just antecior to the beginning of the middle intestine. 

 The diameter of the body is less than in the (esophageal region 

 (of. fig. 22)j and much less than in the great exjianded portion 

 which is not figured. The outer longitudinal muscle in fig. 23 

 needs no description ; the circular muscle is relatively thicker than 

 in the anterior part of the body, but not greatly enlarged. The 

 circular muscle of the proboscis sheath has increased greatly in 

 size and some of its outer fibres ruu ventrally, making a baud of 

 circular muscle, i.CM., that encircles the stomach, S. Other 

 fibres, apparently from the circular muscle of the body wall, join 

 with these, running dorso-ventrally, and crossing the inner longi- 

 tudinal layer dorsal ly and ventrally. In short, an inner circular 

 muscle layer is here present; and muscular crosses occur between 

 it and the outer circular layer, both dorsally and ventrally (see 

 fig. 23, D.m.cr., V.m.cr.). A few sections posterior to the one 




668 TROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



figured in fig. 23, tl e inner circular muscle layer suddenly ends 

 and the first pair of cfeca of the middle intestine appear. On 

 examining the sections anterior to fig, 23, it is found that the 

 inner circular muscle extends forward for about 1.8 mm. as a very 

 thin layer of a few fibres (see Plate XLII, fig. 30, i.C.M.), 

 the thickened region, as in fig. 23, only extending over a few sec- 

 tions. 



At its beginning the inner circular muscle, as seen in cross sec- 

 tions, measures about .006 mm. dorso-ventrally; over the greater 

 part of its extent the measurements range from .012— .017 mm. ; 

 then suddenly increase from .023 to .06 in about five sections of 

 6/x each; finally just before the end, fig. 23, the layer is .087 mm. 

 thick. 



The inner circular muscle encloses a band of longitudinal muscle 

 fibres on the dorsal side of the stomach, below the rhynchocoel, Plate 

 XLII, figs. 23, 30, i.L.M. 



The fibres of the inner circular muscle layer are direct continua- 

 tions of fibres from the circular layer of the proboscis sheath. 

 Furthermore, in the anterior part of the layer, the fibres come 

 from the inner surface of the proboscis sheath, bend out, ci'oss the 

 outer fibres and then continue down around the stomach. This 

 bending out and crossing is shown in fig. 30, z. In a more poste- 

 rior position, the inner circular layer becomes thicker and consists 

 of fibres from the outermost part of the proboscis sheath, together 

 with fibres from ihe circular muscle of the body wall. It is thus 

 seen that the partial origin of the inner circular muscle layer of 

 Zyge^ipoUa from the proboscis sheath circular muscle is beyond a 

 doubt. 



An inner circular muscle layer has not been heretofore described, 

 as such, for any Heteronemertean. I have found a very similar 

 layer in Micrnra cteca, with a considerable thickening at the poste- 

 rior end, but this has not Ijcen mentioned in any published work, 

 so far as I am aware. Coe (1901) describes in Micrnra alaskensis 

 a structure that might properly be called an inner circular 

 muscle layer. He says, p. 72: " The delicate layer of circu- 

 lar and longitudinal muscular fibers which surrounds the epi- 

 thelial lining of the esophagus in most of the Heteronemer- 

 teans becomes remarkably developed in this species. At the 

 very posterior end of the esophagus — just anterior to the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 669 



first intestinal pouches — the circular muscles of the esophagus 

 increase so greatly in number that they form a most conspicuous 

 layer. In the region of its maximum development this layer 

 becomes nearly half as thick as the circular layer of the body walls in 

 the same section. In no other species of the Lineidse has this 

 muscle been found of even approximately this thickness. Its fibers 

 connect in part with the circular layer of the body walls and to a 

 lesser degree with the circular muscles of the proboscis sheath. 

 But few fibers lie on the dorsal wall of the esophagus, so that this 

 organ is largely bound up with the proboscis sheath in a continu- 

 ous layer of muscles, and one cannot fail to see the striking resem- 

 blance between this circular layer and the inner circular muscles 

 that are so highly developed in precisely the same region in 

 Carmoma." 



Since, as Dr. Coe says, the I'esemblance between this mus- 

 cular layer and the inner circular layer of Cariiioma is so striking, 

 why should we not regard them as one and the same structure, that 

 is, as homologous ? In what particulars do they differ ? 



Biirger (1895), p. 234, gives the following definition for the 

 inner circular muscle layer of the Protonemerteans and Carinoma. 

 *' Die Leibesmusculatur. Zu dieser recline ich einen aus Riugfibril- 

 len zusammengesetzten Muskelschlauch, welcher bei den Protone. 

 mertinen, vor allem bei Cariaina grata, und Carinella polymorpha, 

 superha und linearis, und unter den Mesonemertinen bei Carinoma 

 armandi um Vorderdarm und Rhynchocolom entwickelt ist, diese 

 beiden Hohlcylinder einschliessend. Diesen Muskelschlauch nenne 

 ich die inuere Ringmuskelschicht." Biirger also states that the 

 fibres of the inner circular muscle differ in no way from those of 

 the body wall. 



Biirger further speaks, p. 235, of the crossing of fibres that 

 frequently occurs in the dorsal and ventral median line of the 

 body, between the inner circular and the outer circular layer of 

 the body wall. " Eine sehr merkwiirdige Erscheinung wird 

 dadurch hervorgerufen, dass die innere Kingmuskelschicht in 

 Beziehung zur iiusseren Ringmuskelschicht, also der Ringmuskel- 

 schicht des Hautmuskelschlauchs tritt. Das geschieht, indem 

 dorsal und ventral in der Medianebene des Thierkorpers von links 

 und rechts Muskelfasern aus dem Verbande beider Ringmuskel- 

 schichten heraustreteu, und, die Liingsmuskelschicht des Haut- 




670 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



rauskelschlauchs durchdringend, die von der eiueu Ringmuskel- 

 schicht kommendeu iiber Kreuz an die andere hinantreten." 



The definition, then, of the inner circular muscle is a layer of 

 circular muscle fibres that encloses the rhynchocoel and anterior 

 intestine, the individual fibres being just like those of the body 

 wall. 



Since there is a common agreement Avith Burger's definition 

 among the three muscle layers under discussion, namely, that in 

 Mlerura alaskensis, that in Zijrjeupolia, fig. 23, i.C.M., and that in 

 Micnira cceca ; and furthermore, since all three layers have muscu- 

 lar crosses between themselves and the circular muscle of the body 

 wall, I can see uo reason why each should not with all propriety 

 be termed an inner circular muscle layer, homologous with that of 

 the Proto- and Mesonemerteans. 



The only difference between the inner circular muscle layer of 

 Zygeupolia and that of the Carinellas and Carinoma is in the 

 amount of surrounding connective tissue, the body " parenchym " 

 of Burger. In Zygeupolia this tissue is present only around the 

 blood vessels, so that the inner circular muscle layer adjoins the 

 inner longitudinal muscle layer, except where the blood vessels 

 intervene. In this particular Zygeupolia resembles Carinina, for 

 in Carinina the inner circular muscle borders directly on the longi- 

 tudinal muscle, and there is no intervening layer of " Leibes- 

 pareuchym." 



The presence of the inner circular muscle layer and the muscular 

 crosses in Zygeupolia and Micrura is important when viewed from 

 a phylogenetic standpoint. This peculiar region of the body, just 

 in front of the middle intestine, is by far the most interesting part 

 of the whole trunk, for it has unaccountably remained in a primi- 

 tive condition, as comparison with other Nemerteans will show. 



Diagram 2 is a representation of the stages, illustrated by 

 living, more primitive genera, through which the inner circular 

 muscle of Zygeupolia and Micrura may have passed. A, represents 

 the most primitive condition, found in Carinella annulata, in 

 which the inner circular muscle is a thin layer of uniform thick- 

 ness, extending throughout the body; in B, Carinella polymorj)ha, 

 the muscle is co-extensive with the body, but is thickened in a 

 certain region ; in C, Carinella linearis, the muscle ends shortly 

 behind the thickened region; in D, Carinoma, the muscle ends 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



671 



B 



D 



Diagram 2. —Showing the comparative extent of the inner circular muscle 

 layer fn certain Nemerteans.— A, Carinellu an/iulata ; B, Carinella 2ioly- 

 morpha; C. Carinella linearis; D, Carinoma ; E, Zygenpoha and Mi- 

 crura cmca. The heavy lines represent the extent of the inner circular 

 muscle, the broken lines the outline of the alimentary tract. 




672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. , 



with an enormous thickening just in front of the middle intestine; 

 E, shows the condition in Zygeupolia and Micrura. In the last two 

 forms the inner circular layer is absent from the entire oesophageal 

 I'egion, and is represented merely by the thickened part in front of 

 the middle intestine, and a short, thin, anterior extension of this." 



In this connection it is interesting to note that in Cephalothrix 

 aliena, a new species from the Maldive Islands recently described 

 by Punnett (1901 a), a very delicate inner circular muscle layer is 

 present in the oesophageal region. 



From the facts just enumerated it is evident that the inner cir- 

 cular muscle of the Heteronemerteans may be regarded as the rem- 

 nant of a layer once continuous throughout the body. 



The accompanying table shows the comparative extent of the 

 inner circular muscle layer in the different genera in which it 

 occurs. 



The second part, relating to the muscular crosses between inner 

 and outer circular layers, shows that there is great variation in 

 this respect in the genus Cavinella. 



^ The facts in regard to the .distribution and structure of the inner circu- 

 lar muscle in the genus Carinella have been obtained from Burger's mono- 

 graph. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



673 



Inner Circular Muscle. 



Carinina grata, 



CarineUa— 



a. superba, 



b. annulata, 



CarineUa 



banyulensis, 



CarineUa 



rubicunda, 



CarineUa 



polymorpha, 



CarineUa 



Unearis, 



Structure. 



thicker in ne- 

 phridial region 



uniform 



ness 

 uniform 



ness 



lliick- 

 thick- 



thinner in ne- 

 phridial region 



thinner posterior 

 to uephridial 

 region 



thicker in ne- 

 phridial region, 

 very thin poste- 

 rior to nephri 

 dia 



thicker in ne 

 phridial region 

 thin posterior 

 to nephridia 



CaUinera thinner behind 



biirgeri Berg., | " rhynchoccel 

 muscle sack " 



Hubrechtia, 



Carinoma, 



luniformly thin 



great thickening 

 at nephridia 



Cephalot.hr ix aU- wery tliin, deli- 

 oia Punnett, i cate layer 



ZygeupoUa, 



Micrura, 



absent in oesopha- 

 geal region, ap 

 pears as a thin 

 layer about 

 mm. anterior to 

 middle intes 

 tine, very thick 

 at posterior end 



absent in resopha- 

 geal region, ap- 

 pears as a tliin 

 layer a short 

 distance in 

 front of the 

 middle intes- 

 tine.quite thick 

 at posterior end 



Extent. 



throughout body 



(?) 



throughout body 

 throughout body 



throughout body 



throughout body 



throughout body 



from the mouth 

 to nephridia, 

 and a short dis- 

 tance behind 

 them 



from the mouth 

 to close behind 

 the "rhyncho- 

 ccel muscle 

 sack" 



Crosses between 



Inner Circ. 



Muscle and Outer 



Circ. Muscle. 



Position 



of 

 Crosses. 



ventral cross only in region posteri- 

 or to nephridia 



dorsal and ven- throughout body 



tral 

 dorsal only throughout body 



dorsal cross only in uephridial re- 

 gion 



wanting 



dorsal cross faint, throughout body 

 ventral cross 

 wanting 



wanting 



wanting 



throughout body wanting 



(?) ' 



from mouth to dorsal and ven- from the mouth 



endof nephrid- 

 ial region 



(esophageal re- 

 gion only 



extends forward 

 for 2 mm. just 

 anterior to mid- 

 dle intestine 



tral 



(?) 



dorsal and ven- 

 tral 



extends forward! dorsal and ven 

 a short distance I tral 

 in frontof mid- 

 dle intestine 



to end of ue- 

 phridial region 



at posterior end 

 of the inner cir- 

 cular muscle 



at posterior end 

 of the inner cir- 

 j cular muscle 



The question now arises, can the so-called " oesophageal mus- 

 cle " (Darmmusculatur, Burger) be correlated in any way with 

 the inner circular muscle ? 

 43 




674 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Burger (1895), p. 257, speaks of a musculature ("Darmmuscu- 

 latur") that is developed in the Meso-, Meta- and Heteroneraer- 

 teans around the posterior part of the esophagus, consisting of both 

 longitudinal and circular fibres, the fibres being more slender than 

 those of the body wall. 



On p. 237 the same writer says that the dorso-ventral fibres that 

 occur so frequently between the intestinal cseca, and also in the an- 

 terior part of the liody, may be regarded as parts of a formerly con- 

 tinuous inner circular muscle layer. " Wir konnen die dorsoven- 

 trale Musculatur als eine innere Kingmuskelschicht, welche in 

 lauter, in gewissen Abstilnden aufeinanderfolgende Ringe zerlegt 

 wurde, vorstellen." He adds that sections of Eupolia and Lmeus 

 geniculatus, the latter figured on Taf. 20, Fig. V, strengthen this 

 opinion. In L. geniculatus the dorso-ventral fibres have bent 

 around the intestine, on its dorsal as well as on its ventral face, 

 making a continuous ring of circular muscle, and a crossing be- 

 tween these fibres and the circular muscle of the body wall takes 

 place in the median ventral line. 



P S 



^CAf 



i C M 



I nt 



Diagram 3. — Cross section through the body of Ccrehratulus lacteus, 

 illustrating the deflection of the dorso-ventral muscle fibres into the inner 

 circular muscle layer around the intestine. — P.S., proboscis sheath ; o. CM., 

 outer circular muscle ; Int., intestine ; i. CM., inner circular muscle ; I)v.f., 

 dorso-ventral muscle fibres. 



From my own observations upon Cerehratulus lacteus, Lineus 

 lacteus and a Lineus sp. , all preparations kindly lent by Dr. Mont- 

 gomery, 1 find there is frequently quite a considerable layer of 

 circular muscle fibres beneath the intestine, and also on its dorsal 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



675 



side. These fibres may he almost invariably traced out of the 

 circular sheath around the intestine into dorso-ventral fibres coming 

 from the circular muscle of the body wall, or else into the circular 

 muscle of the proboscis sheath. This is illustrated by Diagrams 3 

 ^nd 4. The same is true in regard to the scattered fibres occa- 



PS 



oC M 



Dv f 



B 



/;// 



Diagram 4. — Cross section thronoh the body of Linens sp. ; illustrating 

 the deflection of the dorso-ventral muscle tibres into the inner circular mus- 

 cle layer around the intestine. — P.S., proboscis sheath; o.C.M., outer 

 circular muscle ; Int., intestine; i.C'.M., inner circular muscle; Dv.f., 

 dorso-ventral muscle tibres. 



sionally found above or below the oesophagus in Zygeupolia, which 

 come from the body wall or the proboscis sheath, see Diagram 5. 



It therefore seems that, if we accept the view of Biirger that the 

 dorso-ventral fibres are derived from an original inner circular 

 muscle layer, we may profitably go a stej) farther and say that 

 the " Darmmusculatur " or " esophageal muscle," found around 

 the dorsal as well as the ventral side of the oBSophagus, is derived 

 from the dorso-ventral fibres which have turned aside from their 

 dorso-ventral course and have curved around the oesophagus so as 

 to partially encircle it. If this is accepted we may then say that 

 the " oesophageal muscle" is secondarily derived from the inner 




676 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



circular muscle, two steps being involved in the phylogeuy: first, 

 the inner circular layer breaks up into detached groups of dorso- 

 ventral fibres, then the latter turn out of their course and bend 

 around the intestine to form the encircling " oesophageal muscle." 



. o C Af 



^ iC M 



A 



Inf 



Diagram 5. — Cross section through the body of Zygcupolia, illustrating 

 the deflection of the dorso-ventral muscle fibres into the inner circular 

 muscle layer around the intestine — P.S., proboscis sheath; o.C.M., outer 

 circular muscle; Int., intestine; i.C.M., inner circular muscle; Dv.f., 

 dorso-ventral muscle fibres. 



This view is foreshadowed by Hubrecht (1887), p. 71, where 

 he says: " I will not at present attempt to decide whether any of 

 the muscular layers of the oesophagus, noticed both in Eapolia and 

 Cerebratulus' (PI. VI, fig. 9, ce.m.; PI. XIII, fig. 6, mto.), may 

 also be looked , upon as derivatives of this inner circular 

 layer. . , .;" and "Here, too [alluding to the Schizonemerteans], 

 I would be tempted to hazard a comparison between the absent 

 inner circular layer and the musculature of the proboscis sheath." 



To briefly summarize my views in regard to the presence and 



'The Cerebratulus here alluded to is C. corrugatm ^= Lineu8 corrugatus, 

 described by M'Intosh (1879). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 677 



origin of the iauer circular muscle layers iu the Heterouemerteans : 

 (1) the more or less delicate layer of circular muscle fibres encir- 

 cling the alimentary tract in the oesophageal region of Zygeiqyolia 

 and Micrura is a primitive structure, the remnant of a once 

 extensive layer; (2) further investigation will probably demon- 

 strate the presence of similar primitive remnants of an inner 

 circular muscle layer in other Heterouemertean genera; (3) the 

 *' oesophageal muscle " fibres that frequently encircle the alimen- 

 tary tract in the higher Lineidse are continuations of deflected 

 dorso-ventral muscle fibres. They are not primitive but of more 

 recent structure, secondarily derived from the inner circular mus- 

 cle layer by a breaking down of the latter into groups of dorso- 

 ventral fibres. 



The inner circular muscle layer ends with its great thickening 

 just in front of the beginning of the middle intestine, so that 

 posterior to this region the body musculature consists of the usual 

 three layers — outer longitudinal, circular and inner longitudinal 

 (see figs. 24, 25, 26) — which are very thin in the region of the 

 gonads. 



Histology of Muscular System. — Very little neel be said in regard 

 to the histology of the muscle. Each muscle fibre, as Burger first 

 demonstrated in 1890, is a single cell. The nuclei are long and 

 stain deeply. 



In Plate XL, fig. 13 is shown a portion of the circular muscle 

 layer from the posterior end of the body, drawn from a section 

 stained with iron-haematoxylin. At regular intervals, dark areas, 

 contr., are seen, alternating with light areas. The dark portions 

 represent the most contracted part of the layer, the light a region 

 of less contraction, or of rest. In the middle of the light areas, 

 very faint indications may be seen of a smaller region of contrac- 

 tion. The contraction caused by fixation has evidently occurred in 

 waves, as the regular intervals show. These contracted areas were 

 first noticed in the jS^emerteans by Hubrecht (1887). 



Wagener (1863) describes "striated" muscle from a Nemer- 

 tean, the genus of which is not mentioned. He says the striated 

 areas (*' Querstreifungen ") alternate with thinner, lighter parts, 

 and that the cross-striping merges into a non-striated portion. 

 A fibre separated from the bundle has a series of swellmgs 

 ( " Ansehwellungen " ) on its surface. Wagener's Fig, 1, Taf. 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. ^ 



IV, shows that what he regards as cross striatious are evidently 

 merely swollen, i.e., contracted areas of the fibres. 



2. The Nervous System. — a. Anatomy. — Burger (1895) 

 divides the nervous system of the Nemerteans into a central and a 

 peripheral system. The former comprises the brain and lateral 

 nerve chords, which have a thick investing layer of ganglion cells; 

 the latter, all other nerves and nerve layers, provided with a thick 

 ganglion cell envelope. Montgomery (1897 b), p. 382, includes 

 in the central nervous system all parts provided with ganglion 

 cells, namely: " (1) the dorsal and ventral brain lobes and com- 

 missures; (2) the lateral nerve chords . . . ; (3) the paired 

 oesophageal nerves; (4) the longitudinal nerves of the probos- 

 cis . . . ; (5) the dorsal, unpaired, larger median nerve of the 

 body wall; and probably also (6) the lesser, unpaired median 

 nerve. ' ' 



The anatomy of the brain of ZijgeupoUa may be readily studied 

 in life from a specimen compressed beneath a cover glass, for the 

 head is so transparent that the parts are easily distinguished (see 

 figs. 1, 16). The brain lies about 4 mm. behind the tip of the 

 head, directly in front of the mouth, encircling the rhynchocool, 

 and consists of four lobes or ganglia of about equal size, two dorsal 

 and two ventral. A^iewed from the dorsal surface, the dorsal 

 lobes, fig. 10, D.L., are most prominent, and at their posterior 

 ends are situated the pear-shaped ce/ebral organs, C.Org., which 

 are about one-third the length of the dorsal lobes and about one- 

 half their width. The dorsal lobes are connected above the rhyn 

 choctel by a slender commissure, which is very difficult to see in 

 life, figs. 1, 16, D.Comm., but is easily made out from sections. 

 Its dorso-ventral measurements vary in different specimens from 

 .04-07 mm., probably owing to diftereut states of contraction, 

 or to the plane of the section. In the sections of one si^ecimen, 

 fig. 19, the dorsal commissure appeared to be composed of fibres 

 coming from both dorsal and ventral lobes, an unusual condition, 

 and one not previously described in Nemerteans, so far as I am 

 aware. The ventral lobes are united by a stout commissure, about 

 14 mm. measured dorso-ventrally, that in life may be plainly seen, 

 figs. 1, 16, shining through the rhynchocciel, which lies above it, 

 and extending backward posterior to the dorsal commissure. Meas- 

 ured from side to side, both commissures are short, owing to the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rill LADELFIKA. 679 



close proximity of the braia lobes. The dorsal and ventral lobes of 

 each side are connected anteriorly, as may be seen from sections, but 

 the conuectiou ends just posterior to the end of the ventral com- 

 missure, and from this point backward the dorsal and ventral lobes 

 are quite separate. In life the ganglion cell layer appears distinct 

 from the fibrous core of the brain and lateral chords, the former 

 as a greenish-yellow investing layer, the latter as a clear silvery- 

 gray central mass. 



From sections it may be seen that both dorsal and ventral lobes 

 are continued forward into the tip of the head as numerous slen- 

 der nerves, which are approximately represented in Plate XL, fig. 

 1. No especial nerve endings have been observed. The dorsal 

 lobes terminate as such just in front of the cerebral organs, and from 

 their posterior ends arise the nerves that supply the cerebral 

 organs. Immediately in front of the cerebral organ, the dorsal 

 lobe gives off on its dorsal side a horn or prolongation of the 

 fibrous core surrounded by ganglion cells. This horn ends shortly 

 and is replaced posteriorly by the cerebral organ, but there is no 

 connection between the two structures, for the cerebral organ derives 

 its nervous matter from the ventral part of the dorsal lobe. The 

 cerebral organ nerve enters the cerebral organ on the ventral side 

 and afterward branches and ramifies, so that the nervous material 

 is well distributed throughout this sensory organ. 



The ventral lobes are continued backward throughout the body 

 and caudicle as the lateral nerve chords (" Seitenstiimme "), fig. 1, 

 L.N., but do not unite posteriorly in an anal commissure. 



The paired cesophageaJ nerves, fig. 16, Oc.N., arise from the ven- 

 tral lobes in the same frontal plane as the cerebral organs, but con- 

 siderably ventral to them. A slender commissure, fig. 16, Oe.N. 

 Comm., is formed between them, .08 mm. behind their origin, out- 

 side the circular muscle layer, just anterior to the mouth, 31. 

 ]5ehind the commissure the nerves pass through the circular and 

 inner longitudinal muscle into the tissue around the mouth, occa- 

 sionally giving off branches, and continue backward into the 

 oesophageal region. Here they break up into numerous fine 

 branches which ramify in the walls of the oesophagus, not only on 

 the ventral side but also laterally, and which are very abundant 

 on the dorsal side. 



From the dorsal commissure arises the median unpaired upper 




680 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



dorsal nerve, first termed by Hubrecht the " Riisselsclieidennerv, " 

 later the "medullary nerve;" by Biirger denominated the " oberen 

 Riickennerv. " The dorsal nerve extends throughout the body 

 and ends about .06 mm, in front of the anal opening. No con- 

 nection could be traced between the end of the dorsal nerve and 

 the lateral nerves, but it is probable that a delicate plexus exists. 

 The position of the dorsal nerve is constant, just above the circu- 

 lar muscle in the median plane of the body. A second doi*sal 

 nerve (" Riisselscheidenucrv," Hubrecht; " unterer Riickennerv," 

 Burger), separates off from the first shortly after its origin, passes 

 inside the circular muscle of the body wall and lies just above the 

 proboscis sheath. Both nerves are of fair size, about .017 mm. 

 in diameter in the anterior part of the body, but both become 

 much enlarged in the region of the muscular crosses between the 

 greatly thickened inner circular muscle and that of the body wall, 

 Plate XLI, fig. 23. Here for a short distance the diameter of the 

 inner nerve reaches a thickness of .03-. 06 mm. There is consider- 

 able variation in the respective sizes of the two nerves in different 

 specimens. Sometimes the upper nerve is the larger one, but more 

 often the lower nerve attains the greate" size. The greatest size 

 observed was in a specimen whose lower dorsal nerve measured 

 .117 ram. dorso-ventrally and .058 mm. across; the upper dorsal 

 nerve measuring .017 mm. iu both directions. This enlarged con- 

 dition coincided with the thickest part of the inner circular muscle 

 layer. The same coincidence has been noted in the Protonemerteans 

 and OaH/io?Ha by Hubrecht (1887), who says, p. 80: '' The fact that 

 in this (oesophageal) region of Carinoma the proboscidian sheath- 

 nerve comes into the foreground so strongly that it might easily be 

 mistaken for the medulla, may probably be ascribed to the mas- 

 sive development of the inuer circular muscular layer 8, which iu 

 Carinina, Carinella and Carinoma acts at the same time as part of 

 the wall of the proboscidian sheath. The fact was already noticed 

 as a peculiar feature of the species by INI'Intosh (1875), when he 

 first described Carinoma (under the name of Valenciniaarmaiidi)." 

 Posterior to the region of the iuner circular muscle the two dorsal 

 nerves resume their normal size, and then gradually decrease until 

 they terminate near the end of the body. 



Throughout the greater part of the body the lateral nerves are 

 connected with each other and with the upper dorsal nerve by a 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 681 



nervous layer of fibrous substance (" plexus " of Ilubrecht, " Ner- 

 venschicht " of Burger), situated outside the circular muscle. It 

 is especially strong in the (esophageal part of the body, and in the 

 inner circular muscle region, fig, 23, n.p. Posteriorly the layer 

 is very thin, or may be entirely absent. 



In one specimen a peculiar condition of the lateral chords was 

 observed, Plate XLIV, fig. 62, L.N. A part of the fibrous sub- 

 stance extends toward the centre of the section in between the fibres 

 of the circular muscle, CM. : the fibres in the same radial line as 

 the nerve are bent out of their course, and in the space thus 

 formed is the apparent branch of the nerve, running inward. This 

 condition was not confined to a few sections, but extended over 

 several slides, a distance of at least 1.5 mm. It at first seemed 

 as if a series of nerves was being given oflf from the inner lateral 

 face of the nerve chord, instead of from tlie dorsal and ventral 

 sides, the usual method in Nemerteans (Burger), Several other 

 specimens were examined, but this peculiarity was not found in 

 them, and I am unable to account for it. 



The proboscis is innervated by two slender branches that arise 

 from the dorsal surface of the ventral commissure and immedi- 

 ately run dorsally into the proboscis, which is attached at this point 

 to the body wall. The two proboscis nerves, Plate XLII, fig. 35, 

 P.N., are distinct in the anterior part of the proboscis, but in the 

 " middle region," as will be described in that section, they become 

 a continuous nervous layer, fig. 40, n.p., separating again near 

 the end of the proboscis into, two distinct nerves, fig. 41, P.N. 



h. Histology of Nervous System. — The brain lobes, as described by 

 Burger (1895) and Montgomery (1897 b), consist of (1) the 

 fibrous core, (2) the inner neurilemma, (3) the ganglion cell layer, 

 and (4) the outer neurilemma. 



There is little to be said in regard to (1) and (2), as these 

 structures in Zygeupolia conform to the usual Nemertean type. 



In the ganglion cell layer of the brain occur the three types of 

 nerve cells, the small, the medium-sized and the large, described 

 by Burger and Montgomery and denoted as I, II and III. Mont- 

 gomery describes the cells of the first type, p. 385, as " densely 

 massed together and of a shortened pyriform shape. The nucleus 

 is very large in proportion to the cell body, in fact, nearly filling 

 it . . . ." This de.-cnption may also be applied to the cells of 




682 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the first type in Zijfjeupolia, figs. 20, 9, G.C.u which are found 

 abundautly on tlae dorsal and outer lateral sides of the dorsal 

 lobes, and on the outer lateral sides of the ventral lobes. They 

 are very numerous around and in the cerebral organs. 



The cells of the second type, figs. 20, 10, G.C.n, are elongated 

 and pear-shaped. The cytoplasm is more abundant than in I, 

 the nucleus is oval and centrally placed, containing relatively less 

 chromatin than that of I. These cells are arranged usually in 

 radiate clusters, and their distribution in Zygeupolia agrees with 

 that described for other Nemerteans by Biirger and Montgomery, 

 namely, on the ventral lobes and along the lateral chords, never 

 in the dorsal lobes. 



The cells of the third type, figs. 20, 8, G. C. i„, are much larger 

 than either I or II, but vary considerably in size. They are 

 long, pear-shaped cells, with the greatest diameter proximally. 

 The nucleus is lai'ge, round, and centrally placed, with a large 

 nucleolus, and the chromatin distributed throughout the nucleus. 

 Montgomery states that " while the cell bodies vary considerably 

 in size, their nuclei remain of nearly uniform dimensions." 

 These cells are found in both dorsal and ventral lobes and along 

 the lateral chords. 



A fourth type of cell has l)eeu discovered and named by Burger 

 (1894), namely, the colossal neurochorcl cells. Burger (1899), 

 p. 105, states: " Neurochordzellen fand ieh bei alien von mir uuter- 

 suchteu Cerebratuleu, ferner bei Lanrjia formosa. Das Gehirn 

 besitzt stets nur ein eiuziges Paar von Neurochordzellen, welches 

 an der medialen Fliiche der ventralen Ganglien dort gelagert ist, 

 wo die Schlundnerven entspringen. Zahlreiche Neurochordzellen 

 befindeu sich indessen im GanglienzellbelagderSeitenstiimme . , , ." 

 Biirger also found in the Metanemerteans Drepanopliorus and 

 Prosadenoporus one pair of neurochord cells in the braiu, but 

 none along the lateral chords. The presence of neurochord cells 

 in Cerebratalus lactem has been demonstrated by jNIoutgomery 

 (1897 6), who found that " the colossal ganglion cells (IV) of 

 Cerebndidas are present in three pairs in the ventral brain lobes, 

 and are distributed irregularly along the lateral chords, but are 

 wholly absent in both ends of the latter (namely, in the oesopha- 

 geal region and in the caudicle)." 



In ZijgeupoUa a pair of large cells is found on the median sides 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 683 



of the ventral braiu lobes, about .00 mm. behind the ventral com- 

 missure. Both cells lie in the same transverse plane. In one 

 very favorable specimen the nerve tubule of one coll could be 

 traced into the fibrous core of the ventral lobe. These cells are 

 elongated, with the greatest diameter at the rounded proximal 

 end, and surrounded by a sheath of connective tissue fibres, 

 Plate XL, fig. 3, Cn. T. S. The length of the cell body is about 

 .058 mm., the greatest width about .029 mm., the diameter of the 

 nucleus .012 mm. The cytophism stains a pale violet, htematoxy- 

 lin and eosin stain, and has a slightly granular appearance. The 

 somewhat oval nucleus is proximally placed, the chromatin is dis- 

 tributed around the periphery, and one large nucleolus is present. 



From the position, size and structure of these cells it seems not 

 unfitting to term them neurochord cells. 



Biirger has observed that neurochord cells occur in those forms 

 that swim freely, and he thinks there may be some correlation 

 between the occurrence of neurochords and the swimming habit. 

 While it would be hasty to say that Zjgeupolia has not the power 

 of free swimming, it has not been observed swimming, either in 

 nature or in captivity. In its native habitat it is always found 

 below the surface of the sand, and while in an aquarium it never 

 rises to the surface, but remains on the bottom, burrowing in the 

 sand, if there is any present, and surrounds itself as soon as possi- 

 ble with a slime sheath to which particles of sand adhere. When 

 placed in a shallow dish of water the head is usually kept erect 

 and continually swaying about, but there is little or no movement 

 of the body as a whole. 



It should be mentioned here that one pair of large ganglion 

 cells, from their structure and position evidently neurochord cells, 

 has lately been observed by the writer in Micrura caxa. It is not 

 improbable that the occurrence of these cells among the Nemer- 

 teans is more common than is generally supposed. 



The outer neurilemma is but slightly developed in Zijgeupolia . 

 It is found around the ventral lobes, but does not occur to any 

 extent around the dorsal lobes or along the lateral chords. 



3. Sense Organs. — a. The Cerebral Organs. — The cerebral 

 organs appear in life, Plate XL, figs. 1, 16, ('. Org., as rather pear- 

 shaped bodies situated at the posterior ends of the dorsal brain lobes, 

 above the ventral lobes. They are silvery gray, except the poste- 




684 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [Dec. , 



rior ends, which are dark greenish and contain large globules that 

 have an oily appearance, the secretion from the posterior gland 

 cells. The large blood vessels, in which the posterior ends of the 

 cerebral organs lie, are very noticeable in life, fig. 16, C.Org.V. 

 They are usually expanded, and the floating blood corpuscles may 

 be seen even with a low power. 



Each cerebral organ consists of the following parts: (1) the 

 ciliated pit, opening directly to the exterior; (2) the ciliated canal, 

 leading from the jDit to the anterior end of (3) the cerebral organ 

 proper. 



The ciliated pit is the most anterior part of the cerebral organ. 

 It is a flask-shaped cavity, lined with a ciliated epithelium that is 

 differentiated histologically into several regions which will be de- 

 scribed below. The pit opens directly on the surface of the head, 

 there being no lateral slits, and in life is usually widely expanded, 

 the long cilia beaiing vigorously. In fixed preparations the pit 

 has a small external aperture, a narrow neck and the inner flask- 

 shaped portion, Plate XLI, fig. 21, Cil.P. 



The ciliated canal, Cil.C, is a narrow duct, a continuation of 

 the inner end of the ciliated pit. It extends in the transverse 

 plane of the body from the ciliated pit to the anterior end of the 

 cerebral organ proper, then, making a sharp turn at right angles to 

 itself, it enters the cerebral organ and continues backward to the 

 posterior end, where it terminates blindly. 



The cerebral organ proper is a, pear-shaped structure, wide at 

 the anterior end and gradually becoming narrower at the posterior 

 extremity. The cerebral organ nerve, which arises ventrally from 

 the posterior end of the dorsal brain lobe, enters the anterior end 

 of the cerebral organ on the dorsal surface, just in front of the 

 entrance of the ciliated canal, and then ramifies throughout the 

 organ. 



The basement layer of the body epithelium is continued beneath 

 the epithelium of the ciliated pit and forms around the cerebral 

 organ an envelope of connective tissue, fig. 21, Cn.T.S., of a 

 thickness about equal to that of the inner neurilemma of the brain 

 lobes. In fig. 21 the thickness of the basement layer and cerebral 

 organ sheath is slightly exaggerated. The most anterior part of 

 the cerebral organ is completely surrounded by muscular tissue — 

 the inner longitudinal muscle on the inner surface, the circular 

 muscle on the outer side. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrillA. 685 



The change in the relative position of the circular muscle in 

 respect to the dorsal brain lobes and the cerebral organs has 

 already been described, the circular muscle lying on the inner side 

 of the dorsal lobe, but, with the beginning of the cerebral organs, 

 bending out so as to adjoin their outer surfaces (cf. figs, 19 and 

 21). 



From fig. 16 it may be seen that the cerebral organ vessels, 

 C.org. v., lateral branches from the median vessel, J/. V., run for- 

 ward, partly encircling the cerebral organs and ending blindly near 

 their anterior ends. The anterior part of the cerebral organ (see 

 fig. 21, right side) is but partly surrounded by the blood vessel, 

 while the posterior end,* fig. 21, left side, lies nearly free in the 

 blood vessel, being attached at the extreme tip to the body wall. A 

 noticeable thinning of the connective tissue envelope accompanies 

 the increase of the surface in contact with the blood vessel, and at 

 its posterior end the cerebral organ is covered only by a low 

 epithelium of square flattened cells, except at the point of attach- 

 ment to the muscular wall, where a small portion of the connective 

 tissue sheath persists, fig. 21, left side. 



Histology. — The epithelium of the ciliated pit consists of three 

 sharply differentiated regions: (1) the epithelium of the outer 

 part, or the neck of the pit; (2) the epithelium lining the median 

 jDart of the pit; (3) the innermost epithelium, 'adjoining that of 

 the ciliated canal. These three regions may be seen in fig. 21, 

 Oil. P. The epithelial cells have the same general structure in all 

 three regions, except that the cilia of the cells in the median part 



(2) are much longer. A cell from the median part (2) is shown 

 in fig. 7. It is a slender cell, with an expanded distal end on 

 which the long cilia, CiL, are borne, and tapering into a fine stalk 

 at the proximal bae^^al end; the small nucleus, N., lies just above 

 the stalk. Each cilium consists of a basal knob, an upper knob 

 and a ciliary thread. 



Between the ciliated supporting cells of the outer (1) and inner 



(3) regions, numerous large interstitial connective tissue cells are 

 present, and their nuclei, fig. 21, Cn.T.N., are very noticeable in 

 sections. The median (2) region is characterized by its longer 



* The section drawn in fig. 21 is rather obliquely cut, so that on the 

 right the plane of the section passes through the ciliated pit and the begin- 

 ning of the cerebral organ, while on the left only the posterior part of the 

 cerebral organ is seen. 




686 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADExMY OF [DeC, 



cilia and the complete absence of the interstitial connective tissue 

 cells. In a horizontal section of the ciliated pit the contrast 

 between the three regions is very marked. In a preparation 

 stained with hiematoxylin eosin, the outer and inner regions are 

 studded with the deep-blue nuclei of the connective tissue cells, 

 while the median region appears pink, from the cytoplasm of the 

 supporting cells, their small nuclei being very inconspicuous. 



The epithelium of the ciliated canal is a one-celled layer. The 

 cells are much lower and wider than those of the pit and bear 

 shorter cilia. 



The anterior part of the cerebral organ proper, fig. 21, right 

 side, is richly provided with gland cells, GL-^. These are large 

 pear-shaped bodies with long slender ducts that open into the 

 ciliated canal. The cytoplasm is abundant, especially at the base 

 of the cell where the large spherical nucleus is situated. The 

 secretion is homogeneous and stains red, hrematoxylin-eosin stain. 



The posterior part of the cerebral organ, fig. 21, left side, con- 

 tains other gland cells of a different character, Gl.^. The cyto- 

 plasm is inconspicuous, the nucleus is small, and the secretion has 

 the form of large globules that stain a faint bluish-gray. These 

 cells are prominent in life, evidently containing oily globules. 



The cerebral organs are well supplied with nervous substance. 

 Ganglion cells of the first type, fig. 21, G. Cu ^^^ very numerous. 



b. The Lateral Grooves. — The lateral grooves are two shallow 

 elongated pits extending horizontally, one on each side of the 

 body, above the lateral nerve chords. Each has a length of about 

 1.5 mm. 



The grooves are constant in position in the different specimens 

 examined, always beginning at the posterior end of the glandular 

 zone, Diagram 1, Gl.Z. and L.G., and ending about 1.5 mm. in 

 front of the great thickening of the inner circular muscle and the 

 beginning of the middle intestine. 



The lateral grooves are distinctly seen in cross sections of this 

 region of the body, appearing as small pits or depressions in the 

 epithelium external to each lateral nerve chord, but they are not 

 macroscopically distinguishable in cither living or preserved speci- 

 mens, although they have been repeatedly sought. The shallowness 

 of the grooves has probably rendered them indistinguishable 

 except by the microscope. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrBIA. 687 



The lateral areas of sections of the eutire body have beeu care- 

 fully examined, but no indication of any constantly recurring de- 

 pressions could be found in any other region of the body, either 

 anteriorly or posteriorly. Here and there, of course, as in most 

 Nemerteans, are small depressions of the surface due to contrac- 

 tion and shrinkage, but their extent is very limited, and they may 

 occur in any position, dorsal, ventral or lateral. 



Fig. 62 is a cross section of a portion of the body wall through 

 one of the lateral grooves. It shows that the lateral groove, 

 L.G., is a depression both of the body epithelium, Ep., and of 

 the outer longitudinal muscle layer, o.L.M. The epithelial cells 

 in the groove are rather closely crowded together, and the indi- 

 vidual cells are not distinguishable with the magnification used. 

 With a higher magnification, it may be seen that the epithelium is 

 composed of supporting cells, gland cells and interstitial connec- 

 tive tissue cells, just like the rest of the body epithelium. There 

 is no differentiation of the epithelial cells in the groove. Culis 

 gland cells of the blue-staining type, Cu.Gl.^, are present in the 

 outer longitudinal muscle layer around the lateral nerve chord 

 below the groove, and their ducts open between the epithelial 

 cells of the groove. 



The peculiar appearance of the lateral nerve, as shown in fig. 

 62, has already been discussed. 



The question now to be considered is, What are the lateral 

 grooves ? Are they the result of contraction — i.e., artifacts — or 

 are they organs of the body ? 



The question whether the lateral grooves are merely contractions 

 seems to me to be disposed of by the facts of their constant posi- 

 tion, extent and regular occurrence in several individuals. The 

 alternative, then, is that they are paired organs of the body ; but 

 with what function ? 



When these grooves were first observed, I believed that they 

 were sense pits, comparable to the lateral sense organs ("Seiten- 

 organe") of the Protonemerteans, and I hoped that further study, 

 both upon living worms and sections, would demonstrate the pres- 

 ence of sensory cells and possibly of nerves. 



The careful study of sections has not revealed any differentia- 

 tions of the epithelial cells of the lateral groove, although no 

 especial nerve technique, such as the Golgi or methylen blue 




688 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



methods, has been employed. The possibility remains that under 

 such treatment nerves and sensory cells may yet be demonstrated. 



The strongest evidence in favor of considering the lateral grooves 

 as sense organs is the fact that dermal sense organs — aside from 

 the well-known lateral sense organs ( " Seitenorgane" ) of the Pro- 

 tonemerteans, and the frontal organs of other forms — have lately 

 been discovered in certain Nemerteans. 



In the anterior part of the body of ParapoUa aurantiaca Coe^ 

 there occur paired structures, resembling the lateral grooves of 

 Zygeupolia, and in the same relative position — that is, in the sides 

 of the body posterior to the nephridia and anterior to the middle 

 intestine. Plate XLIV, fig. 03, represents a transverse section of 

 a part of the body wall of ParapoUa through one of the lateral 

 grooves. From this it may be seen that the outer longitudinal 

 muscle, just outside the lateral nerve chord, contains an abundance 

 of large swollen cutis gland cells, Ca. Gl..>. These cells stain blue 

 with hfematoxylin and are present only in the vicinity of the lat- 

 eral nerves, being absent from the rest of the cutis. The section 

 figured shows that the " lateral groove" is elevated above the 

 general surface level, but in other sections it is depressed into a 

 groove. 



This elevation and depression of the "groove" is interesting 

 when one recalls that, according to Burger (1895), the Protone- 

 mertean lateral sense organs and the Metanemerteau frontal organs 

 may be both invaginated and everted. ]N"o differentiated sense 

 cells or nerves are distinguishable in the " grooves " of ParapoUa. 



The length of the groove of ParapoUa is about the same as 

 that of ZijgeupoUa, and they are probably homologous structures. 



In the twelve dermal sense organs of the head, lately described 

 by me (1900 b) for Carinoma tremaphoros, although undoubted 

 sensory cells are present, only in one case could a nerve, running 

 to the pit, be demonstrated. 



The recent discovery of a pair of lateral sense organs in the 

 new Ileteronemertean Micrella rufa Puunett (1!)01 b) is of great 

 interest and value. Punnett describes " a lateral sense organ on 

 either side (fig. 2) shortly behind the excretory pore. In the pre- 



^ Dr. Coe has very kindly allowed me to exaiiine the slides of his tj'pe 

 specimen of ParapoUa and to make drawings of the sense organs. One of 

 these is shown on PI. XLIV, fig. 63. 




1901.] NATUIIAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 689 



served animal it is conspicuous as a small longitudinal slit (fig. 5) 

 about .75 mm. long on either side. It is lined with characteristic 

 glandular epithelium, resembling that found in the head slits 

 (fig. 6)-" 



These facts suggest the possibility that the lateral grooves of 

 ZijgeupoUa may be sense organs that are cither in process of forma- 

 tion, or that have degenerated and lost their sensory character. 



There remains one other interpretation of the lateral grooves, 

 which has been suggested by the presence of the great glandular 

 zone in front of the grooves and the situation of the gonads poste- 

 rior to them. The glandular zone may have a function like the 

 clitellum of the Annelids, and the lateral grooves may be like the 

 grooves found along the sides of the body of an earthworm, and 

 serve to conduct the mucous secretion to the Qgg cells. This last 

 hypothesis could be substantiated only by a careful study of the 

 habits of Zygeupolia. 



4. The Rhynchod.eum. — Immediately behind the tip of the 

 head on the ventral surface may be found a very small opening, 

 the proboscis pore (" Rtisseloffnung "), which is the external open- 

 ing of the rhynchodieum. 



The rhynchodseum is the rather cylindrical cavity that extends 

 through the head from the point of attachment of the proboscis 

 with the body wall, Plate XL, fig. 1, y, forward to the proboscis 

 pore, P.J)., at the tip of the head. It is the path of exit for the 

 evaginated proboscis. 



A transverse section through the rhynchodseum shows that its 

 walls are provided with four stronf? bundles of longitudinal muscle, 

 seen in Plate XLI, fig. 18, Rd.M., and that it is lined with a cili- 

 ated epithelium. This lining is very delicate and liable to be torn 

 away, and usually can be seen only at the most anterior part of the 

 rtiynchodieum. It may persist farther back, but the cilia are 

 mostly broken off in the preparations that have been sectioned. 

 The cilia of this epithelial lining are considerably longer than those 

 of the body epithelium. 



5. Rhyxchoccel axd Proboscis Sheath. — The proboscis, fig. 

 1, P., lies in a spacious cavity, the rhynchocrel. Be, the muscular 

 walls of which form the so-called " proboscis sheath." The rhyn- 

 chocoel is cl jsed anteriorly by the attachment of the proboscis to 



44 




690 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



the body wall, figs. 1, 16, t/, and posteriorly ends blindly about 

 .8 mm. in front of the anus, fig. 17, Re. 



In the brain region the rhynchocoel i3 very narrow, passing 

 between the dorsal and ventral commissures, fig. 20, Re. A con- 

 stant widening of the rhynchoccel takes place in the esophageal 

 region, fig. 22, and the widest, most expanded part usually lies above 

 that portion of the body extending from the nephridia to the 

 beginning of the middle intestine (see fig. 1). At the latter 

 point the great increase of the circular muscle layer of the probos- 

 cis sheath and of the inner circular layer causes a sudden con- 

 striction of the rhynchocoel, fig. 23. Posterior to this narrowed 

 region, which is quite short, the rhynchocoel again widens, then 

 gradually narrows more and more until near the end of the body 

 the cavity is scarcely demonstrable. 



The rhynchocoel is filled with a fluid in which float numerous 

 long narrow cells, fig. 43, the " rhynchocoel corpuscles" of Biir- 

 ger, " Navicula " of Quatrefages (1846) and Keferstein (1862). 

 These cells are long and spindle-sha^Ded, larger in the middle 

 where the nucleus lies, and tapering to a fine point at each end. 

 They are flattened and ribboulike, as may be seen when the cell is 

 twisted. Biirger (1892) has described an "attraction sphere" 

 in the cytoplasm by the side of the nucleus. These do not appear 

 in my preparations and, unfortunately, the rhynchoca^ corpuscles 

 were not studied in life. In one cell, however, the nuclear mem- 

 brane curves in on one side, and a lighter zone in the adjoining 

 cytoplasm may be seen, but there are no astral radiations. In 

 another cell, fig. 43, jS\, two nuclei are present, probably the 

 result of amitosis. 



A second, smaller type of cell, fig. 42, is also found in the 

 rhynchoc(cl, resembling the free corpuscles in the blood vessels. 

 These cells are rouTided, with finely granular cytoplasm and 

 prominent nuclei. 



The layers of the proboscis sheath are as follows (see figs. 20, 

 50;: 



1. The circular muscle layer, C.M.p.s. 



2. The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M.p.s. 



3. The basement layer, B.L. 



4. Tli(! epithelium, Rc.Ep. 



The muscular layers are rather thin in the head region, except 




1901.] NATURAL scii:ncks OF riiir,Ai)i::i.piiiA. 691 



when especially contracted. The basement layer is a homoj^e- 

 neous, gelatinous-looking, fibrous connective tissue layer, resem- 

 bling that of the proboscis and body epithelia. The epithelial cells 

 in the anterior part of the rhynchoccid, Plate XLllI, fig. 50, are 

 not in close contact with each other and do not form a flattened 

 endothelium. They are small, slender, pear-shaped cells, attached 

 by their proximal ends to the basement membrane, with the nuclei 

 at their distal ends, which project freely into the rhynchocoel. 

 Farther back these cells become a flattened endothelium. 



The dorsal blood vessel in this region is bordered on its ventral 

 surface by numerous bundles of longitudinal muscle, evidently 

 derived from the longitudinal muscle of the proboscis sheath. 



From the end of the (esophageal region to the beginning of the 

 middle intestine the rhynchocoel is usually greatly dilated, the pro - 

 boscis is intricately coiled and much of the rhynchocoelomic fluid is 

 centred here. Frequently the entire proboscis is drawn forward 

 into this region, leaving the posterior part of the rhynchoco?l quite 

 empty. 



The proboscis sheath in the expanded region is stretched to its 

 greatest extent, so that it appears in cross section as an extremely 

 thin sheet of tissue, and its component layers are scarcely distin- 

 guishable. 



In the posterior part of the rhynchocrel — t.e., in the part lying 

 above the middle intestine — the circular muscle is the predominating 

 layer in the proboscis sheath, the longitudinal muscle being repre- 

 sented by a very small number of fibres. 



A word may be said here in regard to the comparative extent 

 and character of the rhynchocad and proboscis sheath in the differ- 

 ent groups of Nemerteaus, and of its position in respect to other 

 organs. 



In the Protonemerteans the rhynchocal is short, its extent being 

 only about one-third that of the body. It is widest in the ne- 

 phridial region, then l)ecomes constricted, owing to the thickening 

 of the inner circular muscle, but again widens somewhat before its 

 termination, just in front of the beginning of the middle intestine. 

 In the words of Burger (1895), p. 95 : ** Das Rhynchocolom 

 ist vor der Xephridialregion am geriiumigsten, in derselben wird 

 es durch die miichtig angeschwollene innere Kingmuskelschicht 

 sehr beti-iichtlich eingeengt und erweitert sich wieder etwas, nacli- 




692 PKOCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



flem jene abgenomraeri hat, hiuter den Nepbridien." In Hu- 

 hrecldia the rhynehoca'l is short, ending just in front of the begin- 

 ning of the middle intestine. To quote Burger again, p. 106: 

 " Der Mitteldarm von H, beginnt in der hinteren Region des 

 Rhynchocoionis. In diesera vordersten Abschnitt des Mitteldarms 

 erscheinen die Taschen nur als flache seitliche Ausbuchtungen des 

 ^ehr geriiumigen centralen Darmrohres. Sobald das Rhyn- 

 ehocohini aufhort, verengt sich aber das centrale Rohr, und uun- 

 mehr werden die Taschen sehr umfangreich, sie erfiillen die Korper 

 fastvollig." 



Cur'nioma has the rhynchoca>l extending throughout the body, 

 but the character of the proboscis sheath is very diverse. In no 

 other Nemertean is the inner circular muscle so highly developed, 

 and as this muscle layer increases in thickness, the muscle of the 

 proboscis sheath becomes thinner and finally disappears altogether. 

 But with the ending of the inner circular muscle in the 

 nephridial region, the proboscis sheath again acquires a muscula- 

 ture of its own. This region is also the beginning of the middle 

 intestine — " Sowie der Vorderdarm aus dera inneren Ringmuskel- 

 schlauch herausgetreten ist, beginnt der Mitteldarm," Burger 

 (1895), p. 113. In Callinem hurgeri, Bergeudal (1900 a), the 

 rhynchoecx;! ends in the anterior part of the middle intestinal region 

 by a great muscular swelling of its lateral and ventral walls. 

 Bergendal, p. 314, describes this as follows: " Das Rhyncho- 

 coelom besitzt schwache Wiinde, bis dasselbe sich dem zweiten 

 Drittel des Korpers nlihert. Da erhiilt es zuerst eine sehr starke 

 Grundschicht, die bald weiter nach liiuten wieder verdiinnt wird 

 und in einen miichtigen Muskelsack eindriingt Die dor- 

 sale Wand des Rhynchocoeloms schwindet und bosteht nur in einer 

 etwas verstiirkten Gi'undschicht. Die seitliche und ventrale Wand 

 wird um so dicker und besteht aus sehr schonen bogenformigen 

 ^luskelbiindern .... diese Schicht ist beinahe so niiichtig wie 

 die halbe Dicke des Kurpers. " 



From these daia it is seen that in Nemerteans with a short rhyn- 

 chocoel, the termination of the latter is near the end of the nephri- 

 dial region and the beginning of the middle intestine, and usually 

 ooinciding with the thickening, when present, of the inner circular 

 tnuscle. Carlnoma is no exception to this, for we may regard its 

 long rhynchocffil as merely a secondary development backward 




1901.] N^\TURAL SCIKJS'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 693 



behind the usual point of termination. The same may be said of 

 Zygeupolla. The exjianded rhynchoca-l is constricted in the region 

 of the inner circular umsclc at the beginning of the middle intes- 

 tine, and instead of ending here, as may have been the case primi- 

 tively, has secondarily developed backward through the whole 

 length of the body. 



6. The Proboscis. — The proboscis, Plate XL, tigs. 1, 16, P., 

 is attached to the body vrall in the brain region, just anterior to 

 the dorsal commissure. It lies in the rhynchoctel, Re, bathed by 

 the rhynchocoelomic fluid. The posterior end is not attached to the 

 wall of the rhynchoc«d but is entirely free, there being no retractor 

 muscle. 



In regard to its histology the proboscis may be divided into 

 three regions, which, however, pass very gradually into one an- 

 other. These parts are (1 ) the anterior region, which is compara- 

 tively short, being of about the same length as the (lesophagus, 

 above which it lies; (2) the middle region, comprising the greater 

 part of the proboscis; and (3) the extreme posterior region, only 

 a few millimeters in length. 



In the following description the nomenclature of Burger (1895) 

 will be followed, by which in the unevaginated proboscis the layers 

 nearest the central cavity are termed the inner layers, those toward 

 the periphery the outer. 



The Anterior lieyiou. — This part of the proboscis is usually 

 straight and the average diameter is 0.116 mm. A cross section, 

 Plate XLII, fig. 85, has the following layers: 



1. The outer epithelium, o.Ej). 



2. The subepithehal layer of circular muscle fibrils, Ep.M.J. 



3. The outer basement layer, o.B.L. 



4. The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M. 



5. The lateral nerves, P.N. 



6. The inner basement layer, l.B.L. 



7. The inner epithelium, i.Ep. 



The outer epithelium, fig. 44, o.Ep., in the most anterior part 

 of the anterior region, consists of low, rather brick-shaped cells, 

 in which the cytoplasm is quite abundant, and whose nuclei are 

 large and prominent. Farther back the cells are lower and 

 finally form a flattened endothelium, that is frequently toi-n away 

 in my preparations. 




694 PROCEEDIXGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Just beneath the outer epithehum is a layer of very fine muscle 

 fibres, Ep.m.f., running circularly around the proboscis. These 

 may be termed the subepithelial circular muscle layer'' of the pro- 

 boscis. In a cross section of the proboscis, fig. 35, these fibrils 

 are in longitudinal section, but in a longitudinal section of the 

 proboscis, fig. 38, they are cut transversely, ana it may be seen 

 that the layer is only one fibril thick. 



The basement layer, or ground substance, is a homogeneous, 

 gelatinous-looking structure of considerable thickness. It is a pro- 

 duct of the fibres of connective tissue cells, and their nuclei may 

 be found scattered here and there among the fibres. The thick- 

 ness varies considerably in different specimens. It may be most 

 favorably studied in a specimen fixed with Gilson's fluid, one of 

 the best fixatives for connective tissue. The region of the greatest 

 thickness is always in the anterior part of the proboscis and rapidly 

 diminishes toward the middle region. 



The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M., consists of bundles of fibres, 

 about eight to ten fibres in each. 



The two jiroboscis nerves, P.N., are distinct from one another, 

 each surrounded by a sheath of connective tissue. 



The structure of the inner basement layer, i.B.L., is similar to 

 that of the outer layer but is only about one-third as thick. The 

 inner epithelium, i.Ep., is a one-celled layer. The cells are square 

 in cross section, the cell-membranes distinct and the nuclei large 

 and rounded. Between the epithelial cells are numerous gland 

 cells, Gl.^, the contents of which stain dark blue with hsematoxy- 

 lin. The central cavity of the proboscis is quite large in this 

 region. 



The transition stages between the anterior and middle regions 

 are characterized by the decrease in thickness and the almost total 

 disappearance of the outer basement layer. Its diminution is 

 coincident with the establishment of a circular muscle layer on 

 the axial side of the longitudinal muscle. A considerable amount 

 of connective tissue appears Avithin the new circular muscle layer, 

 forming the core of the papilhc into which the inner surface 

 of the proboscis is now raised. A considerable increase in the 



® The subepithelial muscle fibrils are uot seen in fig. 14, which represents 

 a portion of the proboscis only a few sections behind its point of attach- 

 ment, but they begin a short distance farther back and I'orni a continuous 

 layer to the posterior tip of the proboscis. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLAlJELl'lIIA. ()95 



height of the inner epithelial cells may be noticed, and gland cells 

 are becoming more numerous. 



The Middle Region. — The proboscis is usually greatly twisted 

 and coiled, and the maximum diameter is found here, about 

 0.4 mm. The layers are as follows (see figs. 38, 40) : 



1. The outer epithelium, o.Ep. 



2. The subepithelial layer of circular muscle fibrils, Ep.m.f- 



3. The outer basement layer, o.B.L. 



4. The longitudinal muscle layer, L.M. 



5. The circular muscle layer, CM. 



6. The nervous plexus, n.-p. 



7. The connective tissue of the papillse, Gn. T. 



8. The inner epithelium, i.Ep. 



1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 have essentially the same structure as in the 

 transition stages. The notable features of this region are found in 

 the circular muscle and the inner epithelium. Shortly after the 

 appearance of the circular muscle layer, there is a crossing of the 

 circular ^fibres at one point out through the longitudinal layer. 



DX 



JDX 



yx 



Diagram 6. — Zygcupolin, cross 

 section of "middle region" of pro- 

 boscis, with one muscular cross — 

 D X, dorsal muscular cross ; i.Ep., 

 inner epithelium. 



Diagram 7. — ZygeiipoUa, cross 

 section of "middle region" of pro- 

 boscis, -with strong dorsal and faint 

 ventral muscular cross — D.X., dor- 

 sal muscular cross ; V.X., arm of 

 ventral cross ; i.Ep., inner epithe- 

 lium ; Ji., abnormal, enlarged region 

 of longitudinal muscle. 



The fibres of the cross are very thin, and after crossing are appar- 

 ently continued as the subepithelial circular layer of fibrils before 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



described. It is a fact worthy of note that although the crossing 

 of the circular fibres takes place first in the middle region, the 

 subepithelial layer of circular fibrils extends almost to the anterior 

 end of the proboscis. 



In some specimens the muscular cross is present on the dorsal 

 surface only (see Diagram 6, D.X.), in others there is a weaker 

 cross on the ventral side, fig. 40, and in still other specimens the 

 two arms of the ventral cross are very faint, and lie about 120° 

 apart (see Diagram 7, V.X.). In this latter case there is an 

 exceptional arrangement of the longitudinal muscle fibres of the 

 proboscis. The dorso-ventral diameter is about .145 mm., and 

 almost one-half of the area of the proboscis is occupied by the 

 circular muscle of the ventral side, Diagram 7, K. The muscle 

 fibres have, increased enomiously on this side, and spaces filled 

 with a connective tissue reticulum separate the wide part of the 

 layer from the narrower, normal part. Through these connective 

 tissue areas run the fibres of the ventral cross. 



The lateral nerves are separate at the beginning of the middle 

 region, I)ut farther back they spread out into a thin nervous layer, 

 fig. 40, n.p., which forms a continuous ring around the proboscis, 

 along the inner surface of the circular muscle. 



The glandular inner epithelium of the middle region is charac- 

 terized by a structure that will be termed the glandular ridge, 

 Plate XLTI, fig. 40, Gl.B. The dorsal surface bears an eleva- 

 tion consisting of a core of connective tissue, C'n. T., which is con- 

 tinued throughout the middle region. The epithelium clothing the 

 ridge is very specialized. The entire surface of the ridge is thrown 

 into a series of lesser elevations, or knobs, covered by masses of rod- 

 shaped bodies that are aggregated in clusters, each cluster on a small 

 papilla. With hiematoxylin-eosiu these rods stain a bright red, 

 and are evidently glandular secretions. Biii-ger (1895) has 

 descril)ed and figured, from the probosces of living worms, very 

 similar structures, which he has termed rhahdites. Burger con- 

 siders each rhabdite as the product of a single cell. As the red- 

 staining bodies in Zijgeupolla bear a close resemblance to the rhab- 

 dites of Biirger, they will receive the same term. Unfortunately 

 the proboscis of Zygeupolla was not studied in life, so that the de- 

 scriptions here given are based wholly on sections.' 



' The best fixation for the rhabdites is 95 per cent, alcohol ; their structure 

 is also shown, but not so well, with corrosive sublimate and 50 per cent. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPIIIA. 697 



Fig. 36 shows a small branch of the glandular ridge, on the sur- 

 face of which are several clusters of rhabdites. The section has 

 passed through the centre of the branch, exposing the central 

 connective tissue core, the lightly shaded area, Cn. T. No nuclei 

 have been seen in the rhabdite cells, probably owing to the great 

 number and the close proximity of the glandular secretions. 



The inner epithelium of the ventral surface is of quite a different 

 character. A certain amount of interstitial connective tissue is 

 present at the base, but there are no elevations. The most promi- 

 nent constituents of the epithelium are the large pink-staining 

 (hrematoxylin-eosin) gland cells, fig. 40, GL^. These cells are 

 quite elongated, the distal ends are large, and the proximal ends 

 are narrowed into a slender stalk. The cell body is entirely filled 

 with the granular secretion, and the nucleus lies just above the 

 stalk. Between the gland cells are very slender cells, somewhat 

 resembling epithelial supporting cells in shape. The nucleus is at 

 the base of the slender cell body, and in the distal cytoplasm may 

 be found one, or sometimes two, rods shaped like a thorn, with 

 flat base and pointed end. The base is embedded in the cyto- 

 plasm, the pointed ends project beyond the cell. These structures, 

 fig. 40, Th., stain a deep blue, hrematoxylin-eosin ; brownish with 

 the Ehrlich-Biondi stain. 



The Posterior Region. — The diameter of the proboscis in the 

 posterior region, fig. 41, is constantly decreasing, until at the 

 extreme tip it measures only .04 mm. 



The outer epithelial cells, fig. 39, o.Ep., like those of the ex- 

 treme anterior region, are ratlier brick-shaped cells with abundant 

 cytoplasm, and do not form a flattened endothelium. The muscle 

 layers have decreased relatively to the other tissues; and instead of 

 the nervous plexus of the middle region, there are, again, two 

 separate lateral nerves, P.X. The amount of connective tissue, 

 Cn. T.N., has increased, and as the nuclei of these cells are large, 

 with but little cytoplasm, the effect produced is that of a layer of 

 undifferentiated tissue. The glandular ridge has disappeared, and 

 the inner epithelium is of a uniform character, consisting of pink- 

 staining gland cells, GV.j, like those in the ventral epithelium of 

 the middle region. 



alcohol ; while they are ewollen and quite unrecognizable with Flemming's 

 fluid. 




6^8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



At the extreme tip of the proboscis the muscular layers ahnost 

 disappear, the couuective tissue cells become even more abundant, 

 and the gland cells of the inner epithelium are replaced by low, 

 flattened endothelial cells. 



7. The Blood Vascular Svstem. — The anterior part of the 

 head of Zijgeujjolla differs from that of most Nemerteans in being 

 quite devoid of blood vessels, and even of blood spaces that are 

 large enough to be seen, although there is no doubt a network of 

 capillaries too fine to be distinguishable either in life or in fixed 

 preparations. 



Tlie blood system makes its first appearance in the brain region, 

 just behind the insertion of the proboscis, Plaie XL, fig. 16. 



In the blood system the following parts may be found (see figs. 

 16, 17): 



(1) The fine paired head vessels, H.V.,* which unite to form 

 (2) the unpaired median vessel, M. F.; (3) the paired cerebral 

 organ vessels, C. Org. V.; (4) the unpaired dorsal vessel, D. V.; 

 (5) the paired lateral vessels of the body, L. V.; (6) the ventral, 

 connectives of the lateral vessels (fig. 22), V.bl.con.; (7) the 

 paired dorso-lateral vessels at the posterior end of the body, derived 

 from the forking of the unpaired dorsal vessel, DI. V., and (8) the 

 central blood lacuna in the caudicle, Bl.L. 



In sections of the brain region, fig. 19, H. Y., the head vessels 

 appear as two irregular clefts running dorso-ventrally, one on each 

 side of the proboscis, just behind its insertion. These narrow slits 

 lie in the limited area between the proboscis sheath and the circular 

 muscle of the body wall, and in the vicinity of the veurral brain 

 commissure their ventral ends coalesce, forming an unpaired cres- 

 cent-shaped vessel, the median vessel, which encircles the lower 

 half of the proboscis sheath, fig. 20, M. Y. 



The median blood vessel extends from this point backward as far 

 as the mouth. In its course it becomes considerably deeper dorso- 

 ventrally, and is very noticeable in sections of this region. It 

 assumes a horseshoe shape, with the apex pointing ventrally and 

 the two long slender arms prolonged dorsally. In the vicinity of 

 the cerebral organs, fig. 21, the arms are cut off by a horizontal 

 band of muscle fibres, H.M., that lies beneath the cerebral organs 



' The reference line from H.V., in fig. 16, should extend in as far as the 



red lines indicAtin"; the head vessel. 




1901,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 699 



and the rhyuchocwl, so that only the triangular middle part of 

 the median vessel now remains. 



Immediately behind the ventral brain commissure the unpaired 

 dorsal blood vessel arises from the median vessel, figs. 16, 21, D. V. 

 It passes up through the muscle layers of the proboscis sheath into 

 the rhynehoccel, and continues in this position — on the floor of the 

 rhynchoca?l in the median line, but bounded dorsally by the rhyn- 

 chocoilomic epithelium — until about the middle of the nephridia} 

 region, fig. 22. Here the dorsal vessel passes down through the 

 proboscis sheath and out again into the tissue that is just beneath 

 the rhynchociel and above the alimentary canal; and this position 

 is retained throughout the remainder of its course, figs. 23, 24. 



In ihe anterior tesophageal region the lateral blood vessels are 

 united beneath the oesophagus by ventral connectives. In one speci- 

 men the connectives are broad and dilated, fig. 22, V.hl.con., in 

 others they are almost entirely shrunken together. The ventral con- 

 nection of the lateral trunks is continued throughout the ffisopha- 

 geal region, forming a network of fine anastomosing branches. It 

 is probably further continued, in the remainder of the body, but 

 I have been unable to follow it in my specimens. 



In the oesophageal region the lateral trunks he on the dorso-lateral 

 side of the alimentary canal; in the middle intestinal region they 

 have moved ventrally and lie on the ventral side of the intestine. 



No connection between the dorsal vessel and the lateral trunks 

 has been observed, except at the extreme posterior end of the 

 body. Some little distance in front of the end of the body 

 proper (see fig. 17) the dorsal vessel divides into two, which for a 

 time lie side by side, their walls adjoining. They then move apart, 

 and lie in about the same relative distance from one another as do 

 the two ventral lateral trunks, so that in a section of this region, 

 fig. 26, four vessels ai-e present, symmetrically placed. 



Just anterior to the anal opening the two dorsal vessels, or rather 

 the dorso-lateral vessels, descend and unite with their ventral fellows 

 in a large blood lacuna, fig. 27, Bl.L. This lacuna now occupies 

 most of the area inside the body musculature, for the intestine curves 

 dorsally and shortly opens to the exterior on the dorsal surface 

 of the body. The large lacuna passes on into the caudicle, fig. 

 17, Bl.L., and continues throughout its length. It has no definite 

 walls, but is bounded bv the muscular wall of the caudicle, on the 




700 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



inner surface of which are irregular groups of large raesenchym 

 cells, figs. 27, 28, mes., many of which become detached and float 

 freely in the lacuna. 



Hidolocjii. — The wall of the median blood vessel is a one-celled 

 layer, fig. 29, of low, somewhat flattened cells that are wider than 

 high. The nuclei are oval and vather prominent and the cyto- 

 plasm clear and hyaline. In places the wall becomes a flattened 

 endothelium, often appearing in cross section like a thin membrane, 

 along wh'ch the nuclei lie. 



The lining of the cerebral organ blood vessels is of a similar 

 character. 



The dorsal blood vessel, as already mentioned, lies, in the ante- 

 rior part of its course, in the mid-ventral wall of the rhynchocoel, 

 and posteriorly, beneath the rhynchoccel. 



Fig. 50, a section through the dorsal blood vessel shortly behind 

 its origin, shows that the vessel is surrounded ventrally and later- 

 ally by bundles of longitudinal fibres, which are more numerous 

 here than on the other surfaces of the rhynchoco?l wall, and proba- 

 bly take part in the contractions of the vessel, while the dorsal 

 surface of the vessel is bounded by the epithelial lining of the rhyn- 

 chnccel, Rc.Ep. 



The wall of the dorsal vessel consists of an endothelium. End., 

 of low, rather brick-shaped cells with large nuclei. The cells of 

 the ventral part of the wall are very regularly arranged, Plate 

 XLIIl, fig. 50, but the regularity of the dorsal wall is interrupted 

 by the proliferation of numerous blood-forming cells, Bl.f. C, that 

 project into the lumen of the vessel and remain for some time at- 

 tached to the dorsal wall by their slender stalks. 



The boundary between the dorsal wall of the blood vessel and 

 the epithelium of the rhynchocud is marked by a fine line, Bl.M., 

 that varies in distinctness in different preparations. After the 

 luematoxylin-eosin stain it appears pink, after iron-hrematoxyliu, 

 black, so that it is probable that a few muscle fibres are present 

 here, forming a very delicate circular layer around the dorsal side 

 of the vessel. This line might also represent a deeply stained 

 connective tissue layer, but, since the dorsal vessel after leaving the 

 rhynchocfel has a well-defined muscle slieatli, it seems more likely 

 that this is the beginning of a muscle layer. 



The blood-forming cells are evidentlv enlarged endothelial cells. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIlILADELl'HIA. 701 



that gradually separate off and become free. At first pear-shaped, 

 with a slender stalk, they later become rounded and are frequently 

 amoeboid in outline, fig. 51, Bl.f. C. The cytoplasm is finely granu- 

 lar in appearance and quite f)rominent. In the anterior (rhyn- 

 choca?lomic) part of the dorsal vessel the blood-forming cells arise 

 only from the dorsal side, but posteriorly from all sides of the 

 dorsal vessel (cf. figs. 50, 51). 



The dorsal blood vessel after leaving the rhynchoccel lies beneath 

 it and above the intestine, figs. 22, 2S, immediately surrounded by 

 a network of connective tissue cells. The wall, fig. 51, consists of 

 an inner endothelium, End., and an outer circular muscle layer, 

 BLM., that in this region is continued around the entire vessel, 

 and is not confined to the dorso-lateral surface, as in the anterior 

 region. The muscle fibres are very fine, but are clear and distinct, 

 and are especially well seen in tangential sections of the vessel. 

 The endothelium. End., is very irregular, being interrupted by the 

 proliferation of cells from all sides of the vessel. In places, many 

 consecutive sections of the vessel may be examined without finding 

 a single true endothelial cell, while numerous blood-forming cells 

 are present in each section. Two explanations for this are possible: 

 either all the endothelial cells have been changed into blood- 

 forming cells, or the endothelium has been rubbed or torn off. The 

 latter is supported by the fact that a thin lining of cytoplasm may 

 nearly always be seen on the inner side of the muscular layer, even 

 though no nuclei are present. 



The two dorso-lateral vessels at the posterior (:nd of the body, 

 figs. 26, 49, have the same histological structure as the dorsal ves- 

 sel — the outer, circular muscle layer, and the inner, more or less 

 interrupted endothelium and numerous blood-forming cells. 



The lateral vessels, figs. 46, 47, L.V., and their ventral con- 

 nectives, V. hi. con., are lined anterioi'ly by low, brick-shaped cells 

 like those of the median vessel, with prominent nuclei and hyaline 

 cytoplasm. This endothelium soon becomes more flattened and 

 membraneous. Here and there a blood-forming cell is given off, 

 fig. 46, Bl.f.C, but there is no abundant proliferation of these 

 cells as in the dorsal vessel. In the nephridial region the endo- 

 thelium of the lateral blood vessels is discontinuous, being absent 

 from the surfaces of the terminal bulbs. Xo muscular layer is 

 present in the anterior part of the lateral vessels, the wall consist- 




702 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Ing merely of the endothelium. Outside of the membraneous en- 

 dothelium, in the more posterior part of the lateral vessels, fine 

 librils are seen. These may be either fine muscular fibrils, or the 

 end processes of the branched conpective tissue cells that are so 

 numerous around the blood vessels. From their general appear- 

 ance, and from the absence of muscle fibres in the more anterior 

 part of the lateral vessels, I am inclined to regard them rather as 

 connective tissue fibres. 



8. The Excretory System. — The paired nephridia,' fig. 1, 

 Nph., lie in the anterior part of the body, about 6-7 mm. behind 

 the mouth, bordering on the ventral surface of the lateral blood 

 vessels and running parallel with them; they are about 2.5 mm. 

 in length, and there is no communication between the two nephri- 

 dia. Each nephridium may be briefly described as a slightly con- 

 voluted tube (the main duct) that opens to the exterior by a nar- 

 row duct (excretory duct) at its posterior end, and which ante- 

 riorly gives off a number of slender, thin-walled branches (the 

 ductules), each of these ending blindly in a group of specialized 

 cells, known as a terminal l)alb (" Eudkiilbcheu, " Burger). 



The most anterior part of the nephridial system, consisting of 

 the terminal bulbs, fig. 47, T.B., and their ductules, Nph.d., is 

 found along the ventral surface of the lateral blood vessels, L. V., 

 and their ventral connectives, Plate XLI, fig. 22, Y. hi. con. No 

 main duct is present in this region, and the irregular network of 

 the fine ductules and their blind ends at first seemed a hopelessly 

 confused mass of tissue, but by the careful study of serial sections 

 the relative arrangement of the parts has been made out. 



The terminal bulb, Plate XLIII, fig. 47, T.B., is the blind en- 

 larged end of the fine ductule, N2)h.d., coming from the main duct. 

 fig. 46, Npli.D. Each bulb consists of a number of cells, probably 

 eight to ten or more, but it is difiicult to determine this exactly as a 

 bulb does not always lie wliolly in one section. The cells of the bulb 

 are placed side to side about a central lumen, so that the walls of 

 the bulb are one cell thick. The height of the cells — that is, the 



'Several attempts were made to study the nephridia in life, but they 

 could be seen in two specimens only. In these, merely the presence of the 

 main duct was made out, and in one case the excretory dnct. The methy- 

 leu blue metliod, employed ])y Biirger (1892, p. 327, Ibotuote) for the study 

 of the nephridia of Eapoliu and various Metanemerteaus, was tried ])ut 

 without success, so that the following description is based entirely upon the 

 study of sections. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrillA. 703 



distance faora the lumen to the periphery of the bulb — is greater 

 than their width. The peripheral ends are considerably enlarged 

 and often irregular in outline; the luminal ends are frequently 

 produced into long slender processes that seem to take some part in 

 the formation of the stem of the bulb. The cytoplasm of the 

 peripheral (proximal) end takes a bright pink, hsematoxylin-eosin 

 stain; the distal processes, however, stain very faintly. The nu- 

 cleus is large and fusiform, but appears round in cross section, and 

 is situated in the expanded proximal end of the cell. 



After finding the terminal bulb cells so well preserved in sec- 

 tions, it seemed most probable that the long branches of vibratile 

 cilia, the " ciliary flames " (" WimperQammen, " Burger), present 

 in the terminal bulbs of other Nemerteans, might also be found; 

 but although they have been carefully looked for, they have 

 net been seen. Cilia, fig. 46, Cil., are found on the cells of 

 the nephridial duct and of the ductules, and generally in a good 

 state of preservation, so that it seems improbable that the cilia of 

 the bulbs should have been destroyed by fixation. On the other 

 hand, the analogy with the terminal bulbs of those Nemerteans that 

 have been exhaustively studied is in favor of their presence in Zy- 

 f/eujjolia also. 



The bulbs project freely into the blood vessel all along its ven- 

 tral surface, and in one case a ductule was observed that passed 

 through the vessel, so that its bulb came to lie on the opposite, 

 dorsal, surface. The epithelial lining of the blood vessel is fre- 

 quently broken and discontinuous in*' the region of the bulbs, figs. 

 46, 47, and in no place are the bulbs covei'ed by it, so that the 

 ends of the bulbs are directly bathed by the blood. The absence 

 of the blood vessel epithelium from the ends of the bulbs may fa- 

 cilitate the absorption of waste substance from the blood, and this 

 may account for the disappearance of the lining from around the 

 bulbs of the nephridia. 



No internal openings between the nephridium and the blood 

 vessel, such as Oudemans describes in Carinoma armandi, have 

 been seen. 



The nephridial ductules, figs. 46, 47, Npli.d., the slender tubes 

 that connect the terminal bulbs and the main duct, are very sinu- 

 ous, and it is probable that several terminal bulbs may connect 

 with one ductule. Some ductules are quite long, especially those 




704 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



that run along the ventral blood connectives. The wall of the 

 ductule is a one-celled layer and encloses a narrow lumen. The 

 cells are wider than high, with but little cytoplasm and elongated 

 nuclei. The cell surface turned toward the lumen bears cilia. No 

 basement membrane is present. 



About 3-4 mm. behind the first appearance of the terminal bulbs 

 the main nephridial duct begins, fig. 46, Nph.D. It is situated on 

 the ventral side of the lateral blood vessel, in the angle made by 

 the junction of the ventral connective with the lateral vessel; the 

 main duct does not project into the blood vessel, but merely adjoins 

 it with one surface, the other surfaces being surrounded by the fibres 

 of the inner longitudinal muscle layer. The main duct is about 2 

 mm. long and composes the greater part of the nephridium. Into its 

 anterior end for some little distance the ductules open, but behind 

 that there are no diverticula until the excretory duct at the pos- 

 terior end is reached. The main duct is thick-walled, fig. 46, and 

 slightly convoluted throughout its length. The cells of the wall 

 are considerably higher than wide, with quite sharply defined cell 

 membranes. The nuclei are prominent and are situated near the 

 outer or basal side of the cell, i.e., away from the lumen of 

 the duct. The outer surfaces of the cells are usually irregular, 

 and often bear amoeboid processes, no basement membrane being 

 present. The surface bordering on the lumen is ciliated, and the 

 liasal knobs of the cilia are very distinct. 



In the cells of the main duct and ductules of one specimen 

 that had been fixed in a solution of sublimate in 50 per cent, 

 alcohol, and stained with hjeraatoxyliu and eosin, were found 

 numerous prominent red-staining bodies of the same size as the 

 nucleus, but neither larger nor smaller ones. Wherever these red 

 bodies occurred they were found one to a cell, and at first it seemed 

 as if they were degenerating nuclei. Careful examination, how- 

 ever, detected the nucleus in each cell, of normal size, but 

 staining less deeply than usual. It is possible that these bodies 

 may be excretory masses, but their absence from the lumen 

 of the duct and the fact that no intermediate stages in their for- 

 mation have been seen would discredit this view. Burger (1890), 

 p. 93, describes in the uephridia of Carinella what may be simi- 

 lar masses: " Schon in den Zellen der .... Endkaniilchen und 

 Eudkolben, fielen mir bis kerngrosse glunzende griine Konkremente 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA. 705 



auf. Ueber ihre Natiir musste ich im Unklareu bleibeu ; niemals 

 beobachtete ich solche im Excretioiisgcfassliiinen selbst." 



The excretory duct, figs. 1, 45, Exc.d., is the small, thin-walled 

 tube that connects the main duct with the exterior. Its course is 

 in a plane at right angles to the plane of the main duct, and it 

 opens to the exterior just dorsal to the lateral nerve chord. Since 

 the excretory duct runs in a direct line to the epidermis with but 

 little turning or twisting, its length is merely the distance from the 

 main duct to the surface of the body wall. The cells composing 

 the wall are much lower than those of the main duct, and are 

 wider than high, the height being about .006 mm. Cilia are 

 borne on the ianer surface. No basement membrane is present. 

 The cells of the excretory duct meet those of the body epithelium 

 at the surface of the body, there being little or no invagination of 

 the epidermis. 



A good deal of evidently foreign matter from the exterior is 

 usually found in the excretory duct. 



9. The Alimentary System. — The alimentary canal of the 

 Heteronemerteans is usually divided into the following regions: 

 (1) The mouth; (2) the a^sophagus, or anterior intestine (" Vor. 

 derdarm," Biirger), a straight tube without lateral diverticula; (8) 

 the middle intestine (" Mitteldarm," Burger), with lateral out- 

 growths or cieca throughout its length; (4) the anal portion of the 

 intestine ("Enddarm"), a short region where the lateral cceca ar 

 no longer present, terminating in (5) the anal opening. Burger 

 (1895), p. 240, says: " Wir nennen den uugegliederten vorderen 

 Darmabschnitt Vorderdarm, den gegliederten, welcher der mittleren 

 und hinteren Korperregion characteristisch ist, den Mitteldarm. 

 Wir bezeichnen feruer am Mitteldarm den rohrenformigen Theil 

 als axiales Rohr, die peripheren Ausstiilpuugeu desselben als Darm- 

 taschen." 



According to Biirger, the (esophagus (Vorderdarm) has fre- 

 quently two regions, an antei'ior and a posterior, that differ histo- 

 logically from one another. In Garinella Biirger finds the epithelium 

 of the anterior part of the "Vorderdarm" very rich in gland 

 cells, while the posterior part consists mostly of supporting cells 

 with a few scattered gland cells; and in Cerebratulus marginatas 

 he finds the same differentiation of anterior and posterior parts? 

 45 




706 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



only in this genus the anterior glandular part is more extensive 

 than Ihe posterior part. Burger's own words, p. 250, are: ** Im 

 Vergleich mit Carinella setzt sich das Driisenepithel der j\Iund- 

 hohle, welches dort ja ganz ahnlich wie bei Cerehratulus marginatus 

 beschaffen ist, aber nur die Mundhohle und den allervordersteu 

 Abschnitt des Vorderdarnis auskleidet, bei den Ccrebratulen weit 



nach hinlen fort Aber es fehlt auch nicht jener zweite 



Abschnitt des Vorderdarnis bei Cerehratulus, welcher sich durch 

 seine Driisenzellen wesentlich von dem ersten unterscheidet und den 

 Uebergang in den bei den hoheren Formen durch die Darmtaschen 

 auch morphologisch von dem vorderen Darmabschuilt differenzirten 



Mitteldarm bildet Es giebt also bei Cerehratulus, just wie 



bei Carinella, einen iiusserst driisenreichen vorderen und einen 

 auffalleud driisenarmen hinteren Vorderdarmabschnitt. " 



In Zygeupolla the differences between the anterior and the pos- 

 terior parts of the tube-like portion of the alimentary canal 

 (Vorderdarm) are so great that in this description the two parts 

 will be termed respectively the oesophagus and the stomach. My 

 reasons for this are partly for the sake of brevity and clearness, 

 since the expressions "anterior part of anterior intestine" and 

 " posterior part of anterior intestine" are lengthy and awkward 

 to use; and partly to emphasize the very considerable differences in 

 the structure of the two regions. It is my belief that while the 

 oesophagus is evidently derived from the ectoderm, the stomach, 

 together with the middle intestine, owes its origin to the entoderm. 

 The term stomach is not altogether a happy one, since it at once 

 suggests the " Magendarm" or stomach intestine of the Metanemer- 

 teans, which may have a different embryological history; and yet, 

 on the other hand, the function of both is evidently digestive, 

 and the resemblances in the histology very striking. Both have a 

 truly glandular epithelium, as will be seen by comparing the sec- 

 tion of the epithelium of the " Magendarm" oi Drepanophorus latus, 

 figured by Burger (1895), Taf. 27, Fig. 17, with the epithelium 

 of the stomach of Zygeupolia, Plate XLII, figs. 32, 33. 



Thei'efore, in Zi/geupolia the alimentary canal will be subdivided 

 into the following regions (see fig. 1): (1) The mouth, 31.; (2) 

 the oesophagus, Oes.; (3) the stomach, S. ; (4) the middle intes- 

 tine, 3I.I.; (5) the end intestine, E.L (Enddarra), and (6) the 

 anus, fig. 17, A. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 707 



The mouth, figs. 1, 16, 31. , is situated on the ventral surface of 

 the body, shortly behind the brain, and about 5 mm. from the tip 

 of the head. lu a passive condition the mouth is a small round 

 opening, with crinkled edges forming a kind of circular lip, but 

 it is capable of great ex])ansion, enabling the worm to swallow prey 

 nearly as large as itself. The tissue immediately encircling the 

 mouth is conspicuous in life by its greenish hue, caused by the secre- 

 tions of the numerous gland cells, figs. 16, 31, w., that are situated 

 in the subepithelial tissue of the anterior oesophageal region. 



A cross section of the body through the mouth opening shows 

 that the mouth is lined with an epithelium of ciliated suj^porting 

 cells resembling those of the body epithelium, but with longer 

 cilia. No gland cells could be distinguished in the epithelium of 

 the mouth-opening proper, nor in the cutis beneath it. 



In the semi-transparent living Zygeupolia the oesophagus and the 

 stomach may be easily seen under a low power in a slightly com- 

 pressed specimen. The diflEerenl degrees of refraction of the two 

 parts makes them easily distinguishable. The oesophagus, fig. 1, 

 Oes , appears rather light, while the stomach, *S'., is darker, 

 denser tind of a more granular appearance. It will be seen from 

 fig. 1 that the oesophagus is rather shorter than the stomach. These 

 two regions do not pass gradually into one another, but there is a 

 sudden transition which might be indicated by a straight line 

 drawn at right angles to the long axis of the alimentary canal (see 

 fig. 1), and sections show that there is an abrupt change in the 

 cell elements. In life there is an appearance of a fold at the be- 

 ginning of the stomach, which probably serves as a valve. 



Fig. 33 is a somewhat oblique cross section of the alimentary 

 canal through the line of division of oesophagus and stomach. The 

 slight obliquity takes the section through both oesophagus and 

 stomach; the oesophageal epithelium, Oe.Ep., being present on the 

 ventral surface, the stomach epithelium, S.Ep., on the dorsal sur- 

 face. In the upper right hand part of the figure indications of a 

 fold, /., are seen, where the oesophageal epithelium apparently 

 passes over the stomach epithelium. 



The beginning of the stomach has a constant relative position, 

 occurring always in the same frontal plane with the anterior neph- 

 ridial region (see fig. 1). This fact is helpful in trying to find 

 the nephridia in life. 




708 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



The oesophagus extends backward from the mouth a distance of 

 about 9-12 ram., according to the size of the worm. The wall 

 of the oesophagus, figs. 31, 33, consists of an epithelium oE ciliated 

 supporting cells, S.C., and gland cells, GL^, about .023 mm. in 

 height, very similar to that of the epidermis (cf. figs. 2 and 31). 

 The supporting cells are like those of the epidermis, only more 

 slender. The gland cells are flask-shaped, with finely granular 

 contents that stain a bright pink, htematoxylin-eosin staiu. Blue- 

 staining gland cells are entirely absent. Both supporting and 

 gland cells rest on a delicate basement membrane, B.M., and 

 some interstitial connective tissue cells are found between the 

 bases of the epithelial cells. 



At the extreme posterior end of the oesophagus some of the epi- 

 thelial cells become much higher, but otherwise their structure is 

 the same. 



The subepithelial gland cells, that have been described above as 

 giving the greenish color in life to the circular "lip" of the 

 mouth, are present in great numbers immediately around the mouth, 

 and less abundantly throughout the greater part of the oesophagus. 

 A group of these cells, w., is shown in fig. 31, from the anterior 

 part of the oesophagus. The gland cells are large, the cell body- 

 containing a secretion that is probably fluid in life, but appears 

 finely granular in the fixed preparations and stains rose red, 

 hsematoxylin-eosin stain. Some cells seem to have but one nucleus, 

 others more than one, but the latter case may be due to the crowd- 

 ing together of the cells or to the presence of the adjacent connec- 

 tive tissue nuclei, so that this point has not been definitely settled. 

 The ducts, dt, are long and slender, and open into the oesophagus 

 between the epithelial cells. Farther back in the oesophagus these 

 subepithelial gland cells entirely disappear. 



The inner surface of the oesophagus is usually thrown into 

 numerous high papillre, especially the ventral surface (see fig. 33). 

 The papillse are formed chiefly of hmgitudinal muscle fibres, but 

 contain also connective tissue cells and the subepithelial gland 

 cells, when they are present. The papilla) come to an end together 

 with the oesophagus (cf. the dorsal and ventral surfaces of fig. 33). 



A few isolated strands of circularly running muscle fibres, fig. 

 33, M.S., are frequently found beneath the papilla), partly encir- 

 cling the oesophagus, but no continuous " oesophageal " muscle 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 709 



layer is formed. The origin of these strands has been traced in 

 some cases to the circular muscle of the proboscis sheath, in other 

 cases to dorso -ventral fibres coming from the outer circular muscle 

 of the body wall. 



The change between the oisophagus and stomach is not only a 

 sudden but a very marked one (see fig. 33). Instead of the oesoph- 

 agus, with its low epithelium and its great extent of surface 

 caused by the high papillte, there is the stomach, without folds or 

 papillse and consisting of a very high epithelium, about four 

 times higher than that of the oesophagus, in which the large gland 

 cells are the principal element. The ciliated supporting cells, 

 S. C. , are present, apparently in equal numbers with the gland 

 cells, but are so small and inconspicuous that they are easily over- 

 looked. In fact, four specimens were studied before their presence 

 was detected, and they were seen for the first time in an over- 

 stained specimen, where the deep blue stain taken by their cyto- 

 plasm and their ciliary bases was in strong contrast to the pink of 

 the adjacent gland cells. 



The gland cells of the stomach, fig. 32, Gl.-i, are large, measur- 

 ing .087 mm. in height and .011 mm. in width. The distal end 

 is slightly narrowed into a neck, and the basal end into a slender 

 process that is inserted into the basement membrane, -B.il/. The 

 cell membrane is very distinct, and the cell body is filled with a 

 network of cytoplasm, in which are embedded large homogeneous 

 secretion globules that stain pink with eosin. Some slight color 

 differences seem to indicate difierent phases in the secretion, and a 

 few cells appearing lighter in color had evidently discharged 

 most of their secretion. The rather small oval nucleus, N., lies 

 near the base of the cell, not far above the basal process. 



Alternating with the gland cells are the small ciliated supporting 

 cells, fig. 32, S. C. They have a small cell body, about .004 mm. 

 in width, cm a very long stalk, *S'^., the basal ends of which are 

 inserted into the basement membrane. The cilia are short and 

 their structure could not be determined. A surface view of these 

 cells shows that there is one stout cilium in the middle of the cell, 

 while the other more slender ones ax'e arranged in a ring around 

 the periphery of the upper surface. The stouter cilium may occa- 

 sionally be seen in sections, and then appears slightly longer than 

 the peripheral ones. A few small interstitial connective tissue 




710 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. , 



cells are present among the bases of the gland and supporting 

 cells, and are demonstrable chiefly by their nuclei. 



The basement membrane of the stomach rests directly upon the 

 inner longitudinal muscle of the body wall. The stomach is fre- 

 quently greatly flattened by the pi*essure exerted by the expanded 

 rhynchocoel. For the study of this region, a specimen from which 

 the proboscis has been cast out is the most favorable. 



The middle intestine, M.I., according to definition, begins with 

 the first pair of lateral intestinal creca, but the cells that are pecu- 

 liarly characteristic of the middle intestine are not found in the 

 most anterior caeca or pouches, which are lined by cells similar to 

 those of the stomach. In other Avoi'ds, the most anterior pouches 

 of the middle intestine belong histologically to the stomach. 



The transition from the gland cells and ciliated supporting cells, 

 exactly similar to those of the stomach, that are found in the 

 most anterior pouches, to the absorptive cells characteristic of the 

 middle intestine is a very gradual one, and varies in different in- 

 dividuals. In some specimens the transition begins in the second 

 pair of cicca, in others it takes place farther back. There is no 

 abrupt line where gland cells end and absorptive cells begin, like 

 the sharp line between the end of the (esophagus and the beginning 

 of the stomach, but the gland cells and their companion support- 

 ing cells gradually become less numerous and are replaced by the 

 absorptive cells that belong to the middle intestine. Throughout 

 the course of the middle intestine, here and there are found gland 

 cells, fig. 34, Gl.i,, just like those of the stomach and the anterior 

 pouches. 



It is the presence of these gland cells, characteristic of the 

 stomach, in the anterior pouches and scattered through the rest of 

 the middle intestine, that has led me to believe that probably the 

 stomach and the middle intestine have a common origin from the 

 entoderm. The fact that there is not a well-defined histological 

 dividing line between the cell elements of the two regions, but a 

 gradual replacement of the gland cells by the absorptive cells, is in 

 confirmation of this opinion. And furthermore, to return to the 

 difterences between (esophagus and stomach, here we do find a 

 sharply defined and sudden transition from an epithelium resem- 

 bling that of the outside of the body to a truly glandular epithe- 

 lium; also, the opening to the stomach provided with a primitive 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 711 



valvular fold. Here is certainly the division line between ectoder- 

 mal and entodermal derivatives. 



The characteristic absorptive cells of the middle intestine, fig. 

 34, Abs.C, are long slender cells, about .14 mm. high, rather 

 flattened at the base and inserted by slender lateral processes into 

 the basement membrane, B.M., and bearing several very long cilia, 

 CIL, on the distal surface. The cilia are about as long as the cell, 

 and are inserted on a basal knob. The nucleus is rather elon- 

 gate, and is situated near the base of the cell. The cell contents 

 are of a variable nature; usually the cell is filled with a finely 

 granular pink -staining substance, h?ematoxylin-eosiu stain, in 

 which are numerous spherical masses that stain a dark red. Other 

 cells present a vacuolated appearance, as if filled with a foamy 

 fluid substance. Since the function of these cells is absorption, 

 the different appearance of the contents should correspond to the 

 different stages in the absorptive process. Throughout the greater 

 part of the middle intestine the cells are swollen with the food con- 

 tents, and so closely pressed together that it is impossible to make 

 out the details of a single cell. All cell walls have apparently 

 disappeared, and the result is a chaotic mass of cytoplasm filled 

 with globules and granules of food, bordered by cilia on the side 

 toward the intestinal lumen, and with a row of nuclei along the 

 base, above the basement membrane. 



The gland cells that have been mentioned as occurring occa- 

 sionally in the middle intestine, fig. 34, Gl.i, cannot be distin- 

 guished from the absorptive cells — except by their absence of cilia — 

 in preparations stained with iron-hsematoxylin, since with this stain 

 both the secretion globules and the absorptive particles stain black. 

 With the hi3ematoxylin-eosin staia, howev^er, the differences are 

 strongly brought out, the food granules staining a brighter red, 

 and having a different degree of refraction from that of the gland- 

 ular secretion globules. 



It has already been mentioned that the two anterior pouches 

 consist of different histological elements from the subsequent ones. 

 They are also somewhat smaller and are deflected slightly forward 

 (see fig. 1). In the more anterior part of the middle intestine, the 

 ca?ca are but little deeper than the axial part of the canal, but 

 farther back the cseca increase in depth at the expense of the axial 

 portion. 




712 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



In the breeding season, when the gonads are swollen and en- 

 larged, the intestinal ctcca are under such- pressure that their 

 opposite walls are frequently in contact. Wilson (1900) believes 

 that the lateral ca^ca do not function under these conditions, and 

 quotes the statement of M'Intosh (1873), that " the glandular 

 elements in the wall of the digestive tract undergo a certain 

 amount of atrophy during the period of reproductive perfection." 

 Wilson adds, in respect to (Jerebratulus ladeus, p. 115: " For a 

 long time, therefore, these intestinal pouches can function very 

 little, if at all, and so they contribute nothing to the nourishment 

 of the body." I should be unwilling to state that the lateral 

 pouches in Zygeupolia take no part in the absorption of food, for 

 I have found some cells of the lateral cseca that evidently con- 

 tained food vacuoles, in spite of the fact that the ctecum was 

 greatly pressed by the adjoining gonads; but the cells of the creca 

 are certainly under great disadvantages at this period. 

 • Toward the posterior end of the body (see fig. 17), the lateral 

 cseca decrease more and more in size, until finally the intestine is 

 once more a simple tube, Plate XLI, fig. 26, E.I. This portion 

 of the alimentary tract is variously termed the "anal portion of 

 the intestine," the " end intestine" ("Enddarm," Burger) and 

 the "rectum" (Coe, 1895 a). 



The end intestine, as it will here be termed, in Zygeupolia is 

 about .8 mm. long. The cells are the same absorptive cells that 

 are found in the middle intestine, with an occasional gland cell, so 

 that histologically the end intestine is the same as the middle intes- 

 tine, and may be regarded as merely the terminal portion of that 

 region. 



At the junction of the caudicle and body, fig. 27, the intestine 

 curves dorsally and opens, by the anus, to the exterior on the dor- 

 sal surface of the body. The anal opening, fig. 17,^1., is small, 

 and the edges are clothed with cilia. 



10. The Reproductive System. — Zijgeupolia is dioecious. 

 The gonads, figs. 1, 24, 25, are found between the pouches of 

 the middle intestine, metamerically arranged, throughout its 

 length, the first pair of gonads occurring between the first and 

 second pairs of intestinal CiTca, and so on regularly, the gonad of 

 one side lying between two consecutive intestinal ca^ca, and oppo- 

 site to its fellow of the other side. Near the end of the middle 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 713 



intestine, about 7 mm. anterior to the anus (see fig. 17), where 

 the caeca become more and more shallow and finally disappear 

 altogther, leaving the simple tube of the end intestine, the gonads 

 terminate (cf. fig. 26). 



The Testis. — The testis is a simple sac, the wall consisting of a 

 one-celled layer of large, rather flattened cells with prominent 

 nuclei. In cross section, Plate XLI, fig. 24, the wall of the gonad 

 appears like a membrane, along which the nuclei are placed; in tan- 

 gential section, Plate XLIII, fig. 53, the cells appear elongated, 

 dovetailing into one another, with strong cell walls which are wavy 

 in outline, and granular cytoplasm that stains pink with the haema- 

 toxylin-eosin stain. Each testis has a single duct, figs. 24, 55, T.d., 

 opening on the dorsal surface of the body, very near the side of the 

 rhynchoca'l. The duct passes dorsally from the testis through the 

 inner lougitudinal and circular muscle layers, and then expands into 

 a bulb-like portion with slightly thickened walls, fig. 55, h, and again 

 narrows before opening to the exterior. The duct meets the body 

 epithelium at the surface, and no bending in of the latter has been 

 observed. 



The youngest male cells are found at the margin of the testis, 

 attached by their bases to the gonad walls, figs. 24, 57. The 

 youngest cells are the largest — .023 mm. long, .005 mm. wide. 

 They are rather pear-shaped cells, fig. 57, with the distal end rounded 

 and the basal end prolonged into a slender stalk. The nuclei, 

 N., are large, with a prominent chromatin reticulum and one 

 nucleolus, n. The cytoplasm is finely granular and no cell mem- 

 branes are present. From their size it is probable that these cells 

 are spermatogonia. They form a layer, one or two deep, around 

 the periphery of the testis, and are occasionally found far in toward 

 the middle. 



On the median side of the spermatogonia comes a zone of smaller 

 cells, arranged in radial rows. These are probably spermatocytes. 

 Many of them are in division stages, and the tiny spindles are very 

 distinct, but are too minute for any exact study. 



In the innermost part of the testis the spermatozoa, Plate XLI, 

 fig. 24, Spz., are found, and near them very small cells that are no 

 doubt the spermatids. The spermatozoa are about .06 mm. long, 

 and three parts may be distinguished in them, the head, the middle 

 piece and the tail, Plate XLIII, figs. 58, 50. The head is longer 




714 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. , 



than wide, and is slightly broader at its posterior end. It stains 

 deep black with iron-ha3matox3'lin, and blue with hieraatoxylin-eosin. 

 In some iron-hsematoxylin preparations that had been strongly de- 

 stained, the head appeared ashy gray with a minute black point at 

 the tip, fig. 58. The middle piece, m.b., is a four-lobed etructure. 

 In fig. 59 there is a middle piece that has been detached from a 

 spermatozoan and which resembles four small spheres. In side view 

 only two of the lobes are seen. The middle piece stains black with 

 iron-hfematoxylin, and red with hsematoxylin-eosin. The tail is a 

 slender filament, in which no structure could be made out, many 

 times longer than the head. 



The Ovary. — The wall of the ovary, like that of the testis, is a 

 flattened epithelium, fig. 54, Gon. W. 



No ovarian duct has been found, although several specimens of 

 different ages have been examined. It is possible that a duct may 

 form in an older stage than those studied, but it seems more prob- 

 able that the eggs are discharged by rupture of the wall. The 

 latter view is supported by the fact of the difficulty in keeping 

 the body wall intact while studying living females with large 

 ova. When a perfect specimen was placed on a slide with sea 

 water and covered, a method that was repeatedly used without 

 difficulty for males, and for females with smaller ova, the posterior 

 part of the body would almost invariably fragment. It was also 

 difficult to fix and harden a mature female without rupturing the 

 body wall. No especial importance was attached to these facts at 

 the time, but since finding from the study of sections that there is 

 no preformed ovarian duct, I am inclined to believe that the 

 fragmentation observed in the female specimens w^as caused by the 

 rupture of the body wall above the gonads, the break then extend- 

 ing farther around the body wall. 



Closely pressed against the wall of the ovary and attached to it 

 by their broad bases are the youngest egg cells." Fig. 54 is a cross 

 section of a portion of the wall of one of the youngest ovaries. 

 Although most of the smallest ova are distinct cells, here and there 

 several are seen, so close together that their boundaries cannot be 

 distinguished, and it is therefore probable that the ova arise from a 



'"As all the material exainineil was quite advanced in age, I liave had no 

 opportunity to study the youngest stages of the ova, so that therefore the 

 cells that are here describe! as the youngest are probably well on in their 

 development. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELI'IIIA. 715 



cell syncytium. The smallest separate egg cells, O.,, are rather 

 square, having as yet no stalk. The cytoplasm is clear and slightly 

 granular, with no yolk granules, and there is a delicate cell mem- 

 brane. The nucleus is round, about .0058 mm. in diameter; a 

 small nucleolus is present, but no chromatin is demonstrable, proba- 

 bly on account of admixture with plastin, and the whole nucleus 

 takes a plasma stain, pink with hsematoxylin-eosin. 



In the next stage, the young ovum, 0..,, has lengthened, the 

 distal end is somewhat rounded and the proximal end more 

 slender, so that the whole cell is now pear-shaped. The proximal 

 end constricts more and more until it becomes a slender stalk, by 

 which the rounded distal end or cell body remains attached to the 

 gonad w'all. The nucleus has enlarged, measuring about .023 mm. 

 in diameter, likewise the nucleolus, in which scattered vacuoles are 

 forraiug. Yolk granules are beginning to appear in the cytoplasm. 



After the appearance of the yolk the cytoplasm has quite a 

 difierent look, being denser with the fine yolk granules scattered 

 throughout. The nucleus of this stage, O.3, is much larger, .035 

 mm. The nucleolus has not increased much in size, but the small 

 scattered vacuoles have fused into one large disk-shaped vacuole, 

 n.vac, at the periphery of the nucleolus. 



The ovum is now surrounded by two egg membranes, the outer 

 of which, o.O.mh., is considerably thicker than the inner and 

 stains blue, while the inner takes a faint pink, ha3matoxylin-eosin 

 stain. The formation of the egg membranes has not been fol- 

 lowed with any exactness, but I believe that both membranes are 

 formed by the egg. Bohmig (1898) believes this is the case in 

 Stichostemma gravense. Montgomery (lo95) states that in S. 

 eilhardl only the inner egg membrane is a " yolk membrane," the 

 outer being derived from the germinal epithelium and is therefore 

 a true chorion. 



The oldest stage found, figs. 25, 52, is that of a free ovum iu 

 the centre of the gonad, no longer attached to the wall by its 

 stalk. Both membranes are present, the outer one, fig. 52, 

 0. O.mb., being often broken and discontinuous, as if it were about 

 to be sloughed off. This appearance, however, may be an artifact, 

 as the specimen from which it is drawn was badly shrunken. At 

 this stage the gonad contains twenty or more ova of equal size, in 

 such close contact with each other that they assume a polygonal 




716 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



form. This is seen in fig. 56, a slightly younger stage, drawn 

 from life. It is likely that several or many ova ripen in one gonad 

 tit once, and not one at a time as in many Nemerteans. 



The cytoplasm of this oldest stage stains a bright pink with the 

 hiematoxylin-eosin stain, and is charged with yolk; the nucleus is 

 very large, its diameter being about half that of the cell, the greater 

 part of its contents still taking the plasma stain. The nucleolus is 

 either one large rounded body, usually placed peripherally, or it is 

 broken up into numerous small fragments, which lie around the 

 periphery near the nuclear membrane, fig. 61, n. Several vacuoles 

 of varying size are present in the nucleolus. 



The attempt has been made to determine whether there is any 

 priority in the ripening of the sexual products of either end of 

 the body. No difference in the respective ages of the gonads of the 

 two ends has been observed in the specimens studied. In any one 

 immature gonad different stages may be found, the youngest cells 

 lying pei'ipherally, attached to the gonad wall, the older cells 

 toward the centre and free. 



11. The Caudicle. — The caudicle, a term suggested by Mont- 

 gomery (1897 a) as a translation of Burger's "Schwanzchen," may 

 be defined as the slender, thread-like process at the posterior end of 

 the body of certain Heteronemerteans." 



The caudicle of Zygeiipolia in life, figs. 4, 5, 6, appears as a 

 slender white filament, and a low magnification reveals a ciliated 

 surface and what seems to be a quite regular segmentation. A 

 closer examination, however, shows that the apparent annular 

 constrictions are merely the result of muscular contractions, and 

 are constantly varying in size and position. A light area along 

 the mid-line, bordered by denser areas, indicates the presence of a 

 central cavity — the blood lacuna. 



In connection with the caudicle, a description of the position of 

 the organs in the extreme posterior end of the body may be of 

 interest. The division of the dorsal blood vessel into two has 

 already been mentioned, and the subsequent fusion of the four 

 vessels into a central blood space; the termination of the rhyn- 

 choccel; the disappearance of the gonads and the dorsal opening of 

 the anus. A short distance in front of the anus the lateral nerves 



^^ It will be shown in the historical review of the literature of the caudicle, 

 that the structure described as a caudicle by Montgomery (1897 «) is in 

 reality a regenerating posterior end. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 717 



assume a more ventral position, finally lying on the ventral surface 

 of the body, Plate XLI, i\g. 27. In this position they pass over 

 into the caudicle. In the caudicle, fig. 28, C.L.N., the nerves lie 

 latero-ventrally, and extend to the posterior end. 



The transition from the end of the body to the caudicle is also 

 marked by the sudden disappearance of the cutis and outer longi- 

 tudinal muscle layer. This is seen in fig. 27, a slightly oblique 

 cross section, that passes through the wall of the body dorsally and 

 the wall of the caudicle veutrally. 



A cross section through the caudicle, fig. 28, shows that it is 

 a hollow tube with the following structure: (1) the epithelium, 

 (2) the two lateral nerves in the epithelium, (3) the circular mus- 

 cle, (4) the inner longitudinal muscle, and (5) mesenchyme cells 

 bordering on the central blood space. 



The epithelium is composed of ciliated supporting cells, fig. 12, 

 «S'. C, very similar to those of the body, but with a smaller cell body 

 and longer stalk (cf. figs. 2 and 12) ; large gland cells, fig. 11, lying 

 mostly on the dorsal surface, the secretion staining red with eosin, 

 with very large nuclei at the base and abundant cytoplasm enclosing 

 the secretion ; and very numerous interstitial connective tissue cells 

 between the bases of the epithelial cells, above the basement 

 membrane. The epithelium of the caudicle as a whole is slightly 

 higher than that of the body, measuring about .04 mm. in height. 

 The nuclei of the connective tissue cells, fig. 28, Cii.T.N., are so 

 prominent and the cells so numerous that the effect is like that of 

 undifferentiated tissue. Biirger^- (1895), p. 239, .says in this con- 

 nection: " Es lasst der Reichthum an Kernen wohl keinen an- 

 deren Schluss zu, als dass die Zellelemente der Gewebsschichteu 

 und des Parenchyms des Scliwiinzchens im Vergleich zu denen des 

 Korpers ganz ausserordentlich klein sind." 



The lateral nerves, fig. 28, C.L.N. , lie in the epithelium outside 

 the circular muscle layer, latero-ventral in position. No ganglion 

 cells could be detected around the fibrous core. The circular muscle 

 layer, CM., is reduced to a very thin layer of two or three fibres; 

 the longitudinal muscle, i.L.M., is also a layer of but little thick- 

 ness. The central blood space, Bl.L., is bordered by scattered 

 mesenchym cells, mes., large pear-shaped cells, attached at first to 

 the muscular wall, but later floating freely in the lacuna. 



'- For the sake of clearness the great numbers of the connective tissue cells 

 in the epidermis are not represented in fig. 28. 




718 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. , 



It is thus seen that the caudicle of Zygeupolia is a structure 

 from which many organs of the body are absent, namely: the ali- 

 mentary canal, the gonads, the rhynchocoel, the outer longitudinal 

 muscle layer and the cutis. 



The significance of the caudicle, however, is not clear, and 

 several explanations may be suggested : (1) The caudicle has 

 remained in a simple, primitive or embryonic condition, while the 

 rest of the body has become differentiated. 



(2) The caudicle is a degenerate structure, the degeneration of 

 certain organs having begun at the posterior end and continued 

 gradually forward. 



(3) The caudicle is a coenogeuetic structure, with a certain 

 physiological function. 



Of these views, no positive proof can be brought forward in 

 regard to the first two. The varying complexity of the caudicles 

 of different genera — for example, that of Zygeupolia and the caudi- 

 cle described by Burger (1895; for Cerebratulus marginatus, con- 

 taining all the organs of the posterior end of the body — might sup- 

 port the view of degeneracy, but this argument may hardly be 

 used until we know more of the origin and phylogeny of the cau- 

 dicle. 



It seems much more probable that the caudicle of the Nemer- 

 teans has arisen coenogenetically, and an explanation of its mode 

 of origin has been suggested by the comparison with a Rhabdocoel 

 Turbellarian, Macrostoma hystrix Oe., described by Graff (1882), 

 and figured on Taf. IV, Fig. 1. In this worm the posterior end is 

 expanded laterally and provided with abundant gland cells, making 

 an adhesive surface. Graff says, p. 240, the body is " hinten in 

 einen platten spatelformig erweiterten Schwanz ausgezogen. " It 

 would not be difficult to imagiue this posterior end becoming elon- 

 gated and more slender, until it is finally a thin filament. In a 

 similar way the Nomertcan caudicle may have arisen from a pos- 

 terior end, originally differentiated as au adhesive surface. The 

 observations of Johannes Muller (1854) and M'Intosh (1869) 

 show that at the present time the end of the caudicle frequently 

 acts as a sucker. 



M'Intosh (1869) believes that the central space in the caudicle 

 of Micrura purpurea is connected with the -circulatory system. 

 This, as stated above, is certainly true in Zygeupolia. The fact 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 719 



that the large hlood lacuna occupies the entire space within the 

 muscular wall of the caudicle of Zijgeupolia, and that the mesen- 

 chym — blood-forming — cells are very abundant, suggests that one 

 function of the caudicle may be the formation of new blood cells. 

 This, however, also takes place throughout the blood vessels of the 

 body. The large blood lacuna of the caudicle is probably a 

 means of aerating the blood, making respiration another possible 

 function of this jiroblematical structure. 



Literature of the Caudicle. — The caudicle has been known in 

 literature under various other names, and considerable confusion 

 has arisen from the multiplication of terms, and from the fact that 

 the caudicle, which is an adult structure, has been confounded 

 ^vith the regenerating " papilla" so frequently found at the poste- 

 rior end of Nemerteans that have been broken. 



For this reason an account of the history and synonymy of the 

 caudicle and the differences between the true caudicle and the 

 regenerating posterior end will be given, at perhaps greater length 

 than the importance of this small structure demands. 



The following papers will be separated under two headings I, 

 those describing the true caudicle; II, those in which other struc- 

 tures have been mistaken for the true caudicle.^' 



I. Ehrenberg and Hemprich (1831) describe the new genus 

 Micrura with " anus sub caudo," and Micrura fasciolata nov. 

 sp. , " . . . . anus terminalis sub processu caudali parvo, albo." 



Busch (1851) (cited by J. Miiller, 1854) mentions and figures, 

 Taf. II, Fig. 8, a Nemertean with a caudicle (" Schwanzan- 

 hang"). The worm is described under the name of Alardus 

 caudatus. 



Diesing (1851) refers to Micrnira Hemp, et Ehr. = Nemertes 

 Oersted, as with a " processu terminali postico filiformi brevis- 

 simo. " He describes the new species Meckelia Knerii Diesing, 

 ' ' corpus depressuni retrorsum parum augustatum processu brevis- 

 simo filiformi." 



Dalyell (1853), Vol. II, (cited by Krohn, 1858), describes 

 under the name Gordius four Nemerteans that would now be 



'^ lu this review of the history of the caudicle some of the earliest and 

 some of the most important papers in Nemertean literature are referred to, 

 but no attempt has been made to give a complete list of all the observations 

 on the subject. 




720 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec.^ 



recognized as Micrurce. They are G. viridis spinifer, G. purpureii» 

 spinifer, G. frarjUls spinifer and G. fasciahis spinifer. 



Johannes Miiller (1854) reports finding a young worm within 

 the larva Pilidium gyrans, and also others in the water which 

 have a " Schwanzanhaug, " 'and resemble the Alardus caudatus 

 Busch. The latter is figured, after Busch, on Taf. IV, Fig. 2. 

 Miiller says " Mit dem Schwanzauhang kann sich das Thierchen 

 auf dem Glase anhalten und wie festleimen und ist dann schwer 

 von der Stelle zu bringen." He believes that the young worm 

 within the larva, resembling the Alardus of Busch, is the same as 

 Micrura faseiolata Ehr. et Hemp. Miiller also quotes a letter 

 from A. Krohn, dated November 19, 1851, in which Krohn speaks 

 of finding at Naples a young worm within the Pilidium yyrans: 

 " Der Leib desselben ist liinglich oval, nach voru zu etwas ver- 

 schmiichtigt. Mitten am hinteren Ende findet sich ein ganz kurzer 

 cylindrischer Anhang, der durch wenige aufeinander folgende 

 Querwiilste wie gegliedert erscheint. Die Oberfliiche des Leibes, 

 so wie audi die des Anhanges ist wie bei den Turbellarien dicht 

 mit schwingenden Cilieu besetzt. " 



Krohn (1858), referring to the young worm within the Pilidium 

 gyrans, says: " In Helgoland sah ich 1854 mehrere arteu von 



Pilidium Der Schwanzauhang wird an den mehrsten 



Nemertinen von Pilidien beobachtet, und wird nur selteu ver- 



misst Die Nemertinen mit Schwanzauhang gehoren zu 



der Gattung Micrura Ehr., vioxmt Alardus Busch identisch ist." 

 On p. 300, Krohn gives a list of the Micrurce found in the North 

 Sea, and an account of the synonymy of the genus. 



Leuckart (1858) summarizes the work done on Neraerteans. 

 On p, 186 he mentions the " Anwesenheit eines retractilen Schwanz- 

 fadens " in a Nemertean. 



Leuckart and Pagenstecher (1858) describe a new Pilidium, 

 P. auriculatum: " Ein Schwanzfortsatz, wie er so hiiufig bei den 

 in Pilidien gebildeten Nemertinen gefunden wird und nach J. 

 Miiller auch bei dem Sprosslinge eines Helgoliinder Pilidium 

 vorkommt, fehlt unserm Thier. " 



Metschnikoff (1809) mentions the presence of a caudicle on the 

 young worm within the pilidium. This is figured on Taf. X, 

 Fig. 15. On p. 55 he says: " Es bildet sich am liinterrande der 

 jungcn Nemertine ein kleines konisches Schwiinzchen, welches 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCii;S OF PHlLADELt-HlA. 721 



einen einfachen Auswuchs der Korperwaud darstellt, uud wie 

 diese mit Flimmerhaaren bedeckt erscheiut. " 



M'Intosh (1869) desci'ibes the following structure: " The pos- 

 terior end of the body in Micrura {Stylus) requires special mention, 

 since there is superadded a peculiar elongated and contractile style. 

 This appendage seems to be formed by a prolongation of the cuta- 

 neous and part of the muscular (longitudinal and circular) textures 

 of fhe body wall of the animal. The entire organ in contraction 

 has a granular appearance, the coarsest granules and occasionally 

 a few circular masses of brownish pigment, being at the tip. 

 Within these coats is a circular chamber, which undergoes various 

 alterations in size, and contains a transparent fluid. This cavity 

 is not connected with the digestive tract, which opens by a termi- 

 nal pore at the base of the process, nor can proboscidian discs be 



seen therein its connection with the circulatory [system] 



appears most probable." 



M'Intosh (1874) says that the genus Micrura has " a soft fili- 

 form caudal process, capable of attachment." He further alludes 

 to " a pale caudal filament" and " a slender styliform process 

 attached to the tail " which " can be elongated to an extreme 

 degree. ' ' 



Hubrecht (1887) used the term " caudal papilla " throughout 

 his description of the caudicle. 



Verrill (1893), in defining the genw?, Micrura, says: "Poste- 

 rior end of the body provided with a median slender cirrus, above 

 the anus. This genus, as here defined, differs from Lineus in little 

 else than the presence of a well-marked contractile anal cirrus, 

 which may often be distinguished even in alcoholic specimens. 

 From Cerebratuhis, which also has the anal cirrus, it differs in the 

 form and muscular structure of the body posteriorly. " In other 

 parts of this work the terms " anal papilla," " caudal papilla" 

 and " caudal filament " are indiscriminately used. 



Verrill (1895) employs the expression " caudal cirrus." 



Burger (1895) describes " ein diinnes 5-15 mm. langes, meist 

 borstenartig starres, weissliches Anhiingsel," which he terms " das 

 Schwanzchen." On p, 24, in reviewing the work of Dalyell, 

 Burger employs another term, saying that Dalyell " den Appendix 

 beobachtet und gut gezeichnet hat." 

 46 




l22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Coe (1895 a), in regard to Cerehratulus lacteus, says : " The amis 

 is at the end of the body, just beneath the caudal papilla." 



Coe (1901) gives as one of the generic characters of Cerebratu- 

 lus, ". . . . the posterior end extremely flattened and provided 

 with a delicate caudal cirrus, which extends beyond the opening 

 of the intestine." 



Wilson C.B. (1900) uses Hubrecht's term "anal papilla" 

 for the caudicle of Cerehratulus lacteus. 



Punnett (1900) speaks of a " caudal appendage." 



11. O. F. Muller (1788) describes and figures, p. 38, tab. 68, 

 figs. 18, 20, a Planaria filaris : " Planaria linearis cauda filiformi 

 contractili." The length of the " cauda filiformis coutractilis " 

 in fig. 20, equal to the length of the body, suggests the thought 

 that it may be the evaginated proboscis. Burger (1895), p. 8, 

 says that this worm is probably a Tetrastemma. 



Grube (1855) describes two new species of Mechelia. The 

 first, M. annulata, resembles the 31. Knerii Diesing. Grube 

 thinks that the " processus terminalis " described by Diesing is more 

 probably a regenerating end ; he says : ' ' Der processus brevissimus 

 filiformis konnte ein reproducirtes noch junges Schwanzeude sein." 

 The second species, M. aurantiaca, has the following character- 

 istics: " Der Korper verschmalert sich nach hinten sehr allmah- 

 lich, und endete bei einem Exemplare in ein viel diinneres, war- 

 scheinlich vor kurzem reproducirtes Schwiinzchen." 



Montgomery (1897 a), Taf. 2, Fig. 16, has described as a cau- 

 dicle what is evidently a regenerating posterior end." The char- 

 acters that make the structure described by Dr. Montgomery in 

 Cerehratulus lacteus, and figured by him on Taf. 2, Fig. 16, a 

 regenerating posterior end rather than a true caudicle are (1) the 

 size, (2) the presence of the alimentary canal, (3) the presence 

 of the outer longitudinal muscle layer, and (4) the presence of the 

 three distinct blood vessels with definite walls. 



The chief external differences between the true caudicle and the 

 regenerating papilla of Cerehratulus lacteus are in size and general 



"My attention was called to this error by Dr. Montgomery himself, who 

 has suggested that it be rectified. Dr. Montgomery has kindly lent me his 

 own preparations upon which the observations were made, so that I have 

 been able to compare them with slides of my own, made from a Cerehratu- 

 lus lacteus found in life with a good -sized regenerating papilla, which bore a 

 short caudicle at its posterior end. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 723 



appearance. The true caudicle is slender and thread-like, contrac- 

 tile and usually twisted; the regenerating papilla is stouter and 

 rod-like, and does not twist and contract like the caudicle. C. B. 

 Wilson (1900) contrasts the two structures as follows. On p. 

 116, alluding to the regenerating end, he says: " Such a papilla 

 is slender and almost pure while in colour. At first it it is difficult 

 to distinguish it from the true anal papilla with which the body 

 normally terminates, but it may be recognized by the fact that it 

 always possesses a very broad base which fades gradually into the 

 body wall, while the anal papilla is narrow and ends abruptly at 

 the emargination. ' ' 



The papilla on the Cerehraiulus found by the writer was about 7 

 mm. long, light in color and rather rounded, not yet having assumed 

 the typical flattened shape of the body. At its posterior end a 

 short, but in all respects a true caudicle was borne. A cross sec- 

 tion through this true caudicle shows that it consists merely of a 

 thin body wall enclosing ia central blood space. The body wall is 

 composed of the epidermis, in which the two lateral nerves lie, and 

 of the circular and inner longitudinal muscle layers. The blood 

 lacuna has no definite lining, but is bordered by numerous mesen- 

 chym cells. From the caudicle of Cerebratulus lacteus, like that 

 of Zygeupolia, the alimentary canal, the gonads and the rhyn- 

 choccel are absent. 



A cross section through the regenerating papilla of my Cerebra- 

 tulus has the same structure that is found in the section figured by 

 Dr. Montgomery. The outer longitudinal muscle layer and the 

 alimentary canal are present, and three blood vessels — one dt^rsal 

 and two lateral — instead of the central blood lacuna. This proves 

 finally that the structure observed by Dr. Montgomery is a regen- 

 erating posterior end and not a caudicle. 



In both worms the end of the body tapers quite gradually into 

 the regenerating portion, and it would be difficult to say where the 

 old tissue ends and the new begins, as differentiation has evidently 

 gone on for some time in the anterior part of the new tissue. The 

 most posterior sections of Dr. Montgomery's worm show that a 

 true caudicle had likewise begun to form there, but had subse- 

 quently been broken off just at its base. It is seen from the meas- 

 urements of the two worms that there is an abrupt change in size 

 between the end of the body proper and the caudicle, the caudicle 




724 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



measuring less than half the width of the body. The diminution 

 in size is due to the sudden disappearance of the outer longitudinal 

 muscle layer, and to the ending of the alimentary canal with the 

 body. 



A word must be said here in regard to the relative position of 

 the anus and the caudicle. 



Verrill (1893) states that the caudicle of the genus Mlcrura is 

 above the anus, and Coe (1895) says the same in regard to Cere- 

 hratulus lacteus. From my study of sections of Micrura coeca and 

 Cerebratulus lacteus I find that the anus undoubtedly opens dor- 

 sally above the caudicle, Nothing is easier than to confuse the 

 dorsal and ventral surfaces of a living worm, but in serial sections, 

 with definite structures for orientation, there can be no such diffi- 

 culty. The anus in Zygeupolia hkewise opens dorsally above the 

 caudicle, and Burger (1895) states that the dorsal position of the 

 anus is usual in Nemerteans. From these data it seems likely that 

 a thorough investigation of all species with caudicles will prove that 

 the dorsal position of the anus is of general occurrence. 



Burger (1895), p. 238, says in regard to the caudicle of Cerebra- 

 tulus, Micrura and Langia: " Morphologisch stellt das Schwanz- 

 chen uichts anderes dar als das stark und meist plotzlich verjiingte 

 hintere Korperende, in das sich von Organen der Darmtractus, 

 die drei Blutgefiissstamme, die Genitaltaschen und die Seiten- 

 starame fortsetzten, und in welchem wir auch alle Schichten der 

 Korperwand bis auf die Cutis, welche giinzlich verschwunden oder 

 in ihrer Ausbildung fast unterdriickt ist, antreff^en." According 

 to this all the organs of the posterior part of the body are repre- 

 sented in the " Schwanzchen," except the rhynchoccel, and even 

 this organ, Burger states, is present in the anterior part of the 

 caudicle of Cerebratulus marginatus. 



The observations of M'Intosh (1869) in regard to Mici-ura 

 purpurea^ those of Verrill (1893) on the whole genus Mier-ura, 

 and my own upon M. cceca are contradictory to the above state- 

 ment of Burger. In like manner Coe's work upon the American 

 species of Cerebratulus and my own upon the one species Cerebra- 

 tulus lacteus show that the caudicles of these forms cannot be 

 regarded as merely " verjiingte hintere Korperenden." From the 

 very limited space devoted to the subject of the caudicle in Burger's 

 great monograph, it is likely that his study of this structure was 




1901,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 725 



hasty, aiid the question has arisen in my mind, could Burger have 

 mistaken a regeneratin<)j posterior end for a true caudicle ? 



Without wishing to criticise the statement of this distinguished 

 investigator, it seems probable that a further investigation of the 

 caudicles of the European species of Mlcrura and Cerebratulus 

 will result in an agreement with the structure of the American 

 species. 



III. Parasites. 



A monocystid Gregarine in its adult form is frequently present 

 in the middle intestine of Zijgeupolla. Large cysts, surrounded 

 by a thick cuticle and containing various developing stages, are also 

 found in the iutestiue. From their proximity to the adult Grega- 

 rines, and from their resemblance to the stages figured by different 

 authors, it seems likely that these are Gregarine cysts. Outside 

 of the cyst, in the lumeii of the intestine, are small amoeboid 

 masses, resembling some of the stages within the cyst. These 

 amoeboid masses also penetrate between or into the cells of the 

 intestinal wall and probably into the gonads. 



In some living specimens large white spots may be noticed 

 among the gonads, fig. 6. They are so large that they are easily 

 seen with the unaided eye. They appear stalked, like the ova, and 

 have a large nucleus with one or more nucleoli. Fig. 56, a hori- 

 zontal optical section drawn from life, shows one of these structures 

 in a gonad together with several ova. In life the cytoplasm appears 

 denser and darker than that of the small ova, and the conclusion 

 first reached after studying these living bodies was that they were 

 the oldest, nearly mature ova. 



The examination of sections in which these large bodies are 

 present has shown that the first conclusion was erroneous and 

 has proved that they are the encysted stages" of some parasites 

 within the cytoplasm of the ovum. Fig. 60 is a transverse section 

 through the body wall and the wall of the gonad, showing the 

 cyst, surrounded by egg cytoplasm, ey., and attached to the 

 gonad wall, Gon. W. The cyst is surrounded by a striated cuticle, " 

 CtL, and outside the cuticle is a delicate membrane staining like 

 the cell membrane. In the cytoplasm of the base are two egg 



''' The reference line from CtL, fig. 60, only extends as far as the egg mem- 

 brane, instead of to the cuticle within. 




726 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



nuclei, N. The cytoplasm of the cyst has a very diSerent staining 

 reaction from that of the egg, staining a faint violet with hoema- 

 toxylin-eosiu, and having a finely granular appearance. The 

 nucleus of the cyst, N.par., is irregular in outline, in some speci- 

 mens with amoiboid processes. It stains homogeneously a bright 

 red, hajmatoxylin-eosin, while the nucleoli are darker and fre- 

 quently vacuolated. 



The presence of the additional egg nuclei in the cytoplasm at 

 the base, of the cyst render it probable that the parasite entered 

 the cytoplasm when the ovum was in a syncytium. The presence 

 of the parasite may have caused an abnormal growth of the egg 

 cytoplasm, or the latter may have merely expanded with the growth 

 of the cyst. In its appearance the cytoplasm around the cyst is 

 like that of the normal, uninfected eggs. 



Figs. 48, 61, show two infected egg cells from a different indi- 

 vidual, with amoeboid, probably earlier stages of the parasite, 

 Par. In tiiis particular worm almost every Qgg has been infected. 



As a rule, the gonads of the male specimens that were studied 

 were not infected, but in a few worms the testes contained large 

 bodies that were evidently parasites, and that resembled some of 

 the stages found in the ovaries. 



The relation, if any exists, between the amoeboid masses found 

 in the intestine and those within the egg cells has not as yet been 

 worked out, as it is not within the scope of the present jjaper, 

 but in consideration of the prominence of these parasites and of 

 their position in the ova, this brief description has been given. If 

 sufficient material can be obtained for the intermediate stages, this 

 subject may later be studied in detail. 



The presence of adult Gregarines in Nemerteans has been 

 known for a long time, and they are mentioned and described by 

 several of the earlier Nemertean writers — Frey and Leuckart 

 (1847), Kolliker (1848) and Johnston (1865), Appendix, p. 290. 



I have found no references in literature to any structures quite 

 similar to those found in the ova of Zygeupolia. M'Intosh (1867) 

 and Wheeler (1896) describe parasites that have a certain degree 

 of likeness. 



M'Intosh found adult Gregarines in Borlasia octoculata = Lineus 

 sanguineus and Borlasia olivacea = Lineus gesserensis. Besides 

 the adult Gregarines, M'Intosh found what he called " certain 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 727 



ova that accompany the Gregarines. " The "ova" measured 

 about 5^(j inch in diameter and each contained an "embryo" 

 that made evident movements. They have two coats, an inner 

 faintly striated and an external without markings. The con- 

 tained " embryo " is finely granuhxr and has a large pale nucleus. 

 M' Intosh regards these ' ' ova ' ' as altogether diSerent from the 

 true ova of the Borlasia. 



Wheeler found in the body cavity of the Annelid Myzostoma 

 glabrum great numbers of amoeboid masses that he regards as pos- 

 sibly the young stages of some Gregarine. The body cavity was 

 distended with ova, and among them occurred the parasites. He 

 says: " In most cases the uniformly staining and rather shrunken 

 body of the parasite was produced into a long fine point which 

 had penetrated the cytoplasm of an ovum. In a few instances a 

 single amoeba had two points, each entering the body of an adja- 

 cent ovum (fig. 54). ' The cytoplasm of the ova thus attached 

 contained large granules which took up the hsematoxylin with 

 avidity. These granules were larger and more numerous than 

 those which occur in normal ova of about the same size." The 

 amoebae are also found outside the ova. 



IV. General Conclusions. 



The description of the organs of Zygeupolia given in the ana- 

 tomical section of this paper makes it evident that this genus is a 

 primitive one and that it has affinities with both Proto- and Hetero- 

 nemerteans. 



The questions now to be discussed are (1) the relationship of 

 Zygeupolia to other orders, especially the Protonemerteans ; 

 (2) the position of Zygeupolia within its own order. 



The following characters undoubtedly entitle Zygeupolia to a 

 place in the order of the Heteronemerteans: the position of the 

 lateral nerves, outside the circular muscle layer; the presence of 

 the cutis and outer longitudinal muscle layer ; the situation of the 

 mouth behind the brain; the absence of stilets in the proboscis 

 and of a blind intestine. 



The alimentary system of Zygeupolia conforms with the general 

 Heteronemertean plan, which, however, is essentially the same as 

 that of the Mesonemerteans and such Protonemerteans as Cari- 

 nina and Hubrechtia. 




728 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The blood system of Zygeupolia is of the Heteronemertean type, 

 Huhreclitia being the only Protonemertean that approaches it ia 

 any way, namely, in the presence of a dorsal blood vessel. 



In the structure of the nervous system and the cerebral sense 

 organs Zygeupolia is again a Heteronemertean ; but by no means 

 the highest tj'-pe of brain or sense organ is represented, Zygeupolia 

 having a very simple Heteronemertean brain and cerebral sense 

 organ. 



The presence of muscular crosses in the proboscis and its general 

 structure are further characters in common with certain Hetero- 

 uemerteans. 



The absence of lateral slits is a primitive character, and one 

 common to all the Protonemerteans and to the more primitive 

 Heteronemerteans. This character, as we know, is possessed 

 by Zygeupolia. The inner circular muscle layer of Zygeupolia is, 

 in my belief, a primitive character, and the short extent of the 

 layer is explicable on the grounds that the thickened region in 

 front of the middle intestine is only the remnant of a layer that 

 was once continuous throughout the body. 



The presence of this muscle layer in a limited region in Micrura 

 ccBca, and of a similar layer in M. alaskensis, Coe (1901), shows 

 that an inner circular muscle layer exists in two genera of the 

 Heteronemerteans. The dorso-ventral fibres of the Hetero- 

 nemerteans, regarded by Burger as derived from an inner circular 

 layer, and the so-called "oesophageal muscles" ("Darmrauscu- 

 latur") which, according to my view, are derived from the deflec- 

 tion and bending around of dorso-ventral fibres, are other evi- 

 dences of the remains of an inner circular muscle among the 

 Heteronemerteans. 



The lateral grooves of Zygeupolia, if they are sense organs, may 

 possibly be homologized with the side organs of Carinella. Their 

 position in the median lateral line of the body, and their charac- 

 ter as epithelial grooves, both agree with the side organs; but 

 until their undoubted sensory character is proved, the comparison 

 should not be emphasized. 



A brief summary of the structure of Zygeupolia shows that it is 

 a Heteronemertean, on account of the presence of the outer longi- 

 tudinal muscle layer, the position of the lateral nerves, the struc- 

 ture of the alimentary system, of the blood system, of the nervous 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHIA. 729 



system and cerebral sense organs, and of the proboscis; while the 

 affinities with the Protonemerteans — and certain Heteronemerteans 

 — are in the absence of lateral slits, in the presence of an inner cir- 

 cular muscle layer and of crosses between this layer and the outer 

 circular, and in the lateral grooves, if souse organs. 



The general simphcity of its Heteronemertean structure and the 

 several Protonemertean characters bring Zijgeiqjolia very near to 

 the Protonemerteans, and through Zygeupolia the whole Hetero- 

 nemertean ordex is more closely connected with the Protonemer- 

 teans. 



The question now arises, To which of the families of the Hetero- 

 nemerteans does Zygeupolia belong — to the Eupoliida?, or to the 

 Lineidie ?'* 



The chief characteristics of the two families Avill now be giv^en, 

 according to Biirger (1895): 



The Eupoliidce. — (1) No lateral slits in the head, the cerebral 

 canal opening directly outward or into shallow ventral furrows. 



(2) No muscular crosses in the proboscis. 



(3) The proboscis musculature consists of two layers, an outer 

 circular and an inner longitudinal muscle layer. 



(4) A head gland is prominent, the gland cells reaching back 

 into the oesophageal region. 



The Lineida'. — (1) The canal of the cerebral organ opens 

 usually, not directly outward, but into deep, or sometimes shallow, 

 lateral slits in the head." 



(2) Two muscular crosses in the proboscis. 



(3) The proboscis musculatur consists of three layers — longitu- 

 dinal, circular and longitudinal muscle layers; if any one of these 

 layers is absent it is the inner longitudinal one. 



(4) The head gland is represented by a few gland cells, and 

 does not extend posterior to the brain. 



^^In my preliminary note upon ZygenjJoUa ''1900 a) this genus is placed 

 in the Enpoliidse, on account of the absence of lateral slits and the supposed 

 absence of muscular crosses in the proboscis. As I have since found muscu- 

 lar crosses in the proboscis, I wish to correct this error. 



" Biirger's own words in regard to the lateral slits are here given (1895, 

 p. 613): ''Der Canal des Cerebral organs miindet in der Kegel nicht direct 

 nach aussen, sondern in tiefe laterale hoiiznntale Taschen, welche durch die 

 Kopfspalten gebildetslnd. Die Kopfspalten sind wechselnd tief : sie schnei- 

 den haufig bis auf das Hirn ein, aber sie sind auch, obwohl in seltenen 

 Fallen, nur durch flache laterale Langsbuchten angedeutet." 




730 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



The Lineidse are subdivided into the Araicrurse, forms without 

 a caudicle, and the Micrune, forms with a caudicle. 



Zygeupolia agrees with the above description of the Eupoliidse in 

 one point only, i.e., in the absence of lateral slits iu the head. 

 The number of the muscle layers of the proboscis is the same iu 

 both, but the position of the layers is reversed in Zygeupolia, the 

 longitudinal muscle being the outer; the circular, when present, 

 the inner. It will be recalled that the circular layer is absent 

 from the " anterior region " of the proboscis of Zygeupolia. 



The structure of the proboscis musculature of the " middle 

 region" in Zygeujiolia agrees with what Biirger evidently regards 

 as the less common condition in the Lineidte, namely, in the 

 absence of the innermost of the three muscle layers. 



Muscular crosses are found in the proboscis of Zygeupolia ; but 

 this is a very variable character, for different individuals may 

 have a dorsal and ventral cross of equal size, a strong dorsal with 

 a faint ventral cross, or a dorsal cross only. 



The absence of a definite head gland and the presence of a cau- 

 dicle are common to both Zygeupolia and the Micruran Lineidse. 



The neurochord cells of Zygeupolia are an evidence of speciali- 

 zation, for hitherto these cells have been found only in highly 

 organized genera. 



It is evident that Zygeupolia agrees best with the exceptional 

 members of the Lineidre — i.e., with those Lineidse whose cerebral 

 canals open directly to the exterior, and from whose probosces 

 the inner longitudinal muscle layer is absent. 



When we therefore consider the position of Zygeupolia in 

 respect to the Eupoliidse and the Lineidse, it seems to belong 

 entirely to neither, but to have affinities with both. It possesses 

 the leading characteristic of the Eupoliidse, but all the other attri- 

 butes of that family are greatly modified. In general structure 

 Zygeupolia comes nearest to the Micruran Lineidse, although it is 

 evident that it must be regarded as an aberrant member of that 

 family. 



But is Zygeupolia a retrograde member of the Lineidse, or 

 merely a more simple, primitive form in process of becoming more 

 complex ? 



It is generally accepted that the Eupoliidre are more primitive 

 than the Lineidre. Now Zygeupolia, in the absence of the lateral 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 731 



slits, possesses a character that is general in the Eupoliidse and 

 exceptional in the Liueid^e; the number and arrangement of the 

 muscular layers of the proboscis make a second character only 

 occasional in the Lineidu>, and, finally, variations occur in the num- 

 ber of the proboscis crosses in ZijgeupoUa, a character that is con- 

 stant in the Lineidie. Therefore Zygeupolia, with one primitive 

 character, a second corresponding to a reduced number of parts 

 in the Lineidte, and a third that varies in different individuals, 

 is undoubtedly a form in transition from a more simple and primi- 

 tive condition to a complex state. It may be regarded as the 

 most primitive member of the Lineidse yet described." 



In general external characters, Zygeupolia comes nearer to the 

 genus Mierura than to any of the other genera of the Lineidse. 

 The generally small size, the body more or less rounded poste-" 

 riorly and the presence of a caudicle are characters common to 

 both. To Mierura caca, Zygeupolia bears a most striking resem- 

 blance in size, shape and color, and the two can scarcely be distin- 

 guished except with a hand lens, which reveals the presence of 

 lateral slits in the former and their absence in the latter. 



The relation of the Heteronemerteans to the Protonemerteans 

 is an interesting question. The position of the lateral nerve 

 chords is relatively the same in both, the outer longitudinal muscle 

 layer of the Heteronemerteans being merely a later formation from 

 the ectoderm (Burger, 1894), and the cutis glands being formed 

 by the sinking beneath the surface of certain epithelial gland cells. 

 Lateral slits are absent among the more simple Eupoliidse, and I 

 hope to have shown in this paper that an inner circular muscle 

 layer, or its derivatives, is quite common among the Heterone- 

 merteans. 



It seems to me that the Heteronemerteans are very closely related 

 lo the Protonemerteans, the Lineidai being connected by forms like 

 Zygeupolia, the Eupoliidse and HuhrechUa, and that the Metane- 

 merteans and the Mesonemertean Cephalothrix are widely divergent 

 forms. 



'* Since the above was written the new Heteronemertean, jll/tcre??a ?•«/« 

 Punnett (1901 6), has been described as the most primitive member of the 

 Lineida-. But Zygeupolia, in entering the family of the Lineida% must 

 assume the lowest position until an even more primitive form is discovered. 

 Within the last few years so many new Nemertciin genera have been found 

 that we may look confidently lor further additions to the group. 




782 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. , 



lu regard to Carinoma, I agree with the view recently advanced 

 by Bergendal (1900 b) that it is more of a Protouemerteau than 

 a Mesonemertean, for its points of agreement with the Protone- 

 raerteans are far more numerous than with Cephaloihrix. Bergen- 

 dal's suggestion to retain Hubrecht's broader order of the Palseo- 

 nemertini, including the four families of the Cariuellidce, Carino- 

 midoe, Hubrechtidse and Cephalotliricidse, seems a very excellent 

 one. This suggestion is based upon a comparative study of Carinoma 

 and upon the discovery of the interesting form Callinera burgeri, 

 a true Protouemerteau, in which the cerebral organs are absent. 



In all zoology, as our knowledge advances and more and more 

 new forms are discovered, the gaps between old and once widely 

 separated families and groups are gradually filled and the results 

 tend toward a more elastic and broader classification. 



The view is held by some zoologists that the Kemerteans, on 

 account of their general uniformity, are a comparatively recent 

 group, so that a large number of the members are probably still in- 

 existence. If this is true, we may expect some day, when our 

 present species are better known and all the intermediate forms 

 have been added to them, to see our existing lines of classification 

 laid aside, and in their place one broad comprehensive group. 



Literature. 

 [The papers not seen by the writer are marked with an asterisk.] 



1900rt. Bergendal, D. Ueber ein Paar .sehr eigeuthiimliche nordische 



Nemertioen. Zool. Am. Bd. 23, No. 617. 

 1900/^. Bergendal, D. Bor ordingen Pateow^wer^/zi/Hubrechtuppdelas i 



tvjinne ordningar Friitoiieincrtini och Mesonemertini? Kongl. 



Vetenskaps-Akad. ForhandUugar, No. 6. Stockholm. 

 1900c. Bergendal, D. Till kannedomeu om de nordiska Nemertinerna. 



Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akad. ForJuindUngar, No. 5. Stockholm. 

 1898. BOHMIG, L. Beitiiigezur Anatomie und HistologiederNemertiuerna 



(Stichostemma grsecense [Bohmig], Geonemertes chalicophora 



[Graff]). Zeit.f.Wiss.Zool. Bd. 64. 



1890. BtJRGER, O. Untersuchungen iiber die Anatomieund Histologic der 



Nemertinen, nebst Beitriigen zur Systematik. Zeit. f. Wiss. 

 Zool. Bd. 50. 



1891. BtJRGER, O. Die Enden des excretorisehen Apparates bei den Ne- 



mertinen. Zeit.f. Wiss. Zool. Bd. 53. 



1892. BtiRGER, O. Wassind die Attractionsphihen und ihreCentralkorper? 



Anat. Am. Bd. 7. 



1894. BiJRGER, O. Studien zii einer Revision der Entwicklungsgeschichte 



der Nemertinen. Ber. d. Nat. Ges. Freiburg. Bd. 8. 



1895. BiJRGER, O. Die Nemertinen des Golfes von Neapel. Flora u. 



Fauna des Golfes von Neetpel. XXII. Monographie. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 733 



1897-99. Burger, O. Nemertini. Bronns Klassenu. Ordnungen. Bd. 



IV, Suppl. 

 *185l. BUSCH. Eeobachtungen iiber Anatomic uud EntwickluDg einiger 



wirbellosen iSeethiere. Berlin. 

 1895ff. CoE, W. K. On the Anatomy of a Species of Nemertean ( Cerebra- 



tulus lacteus Verrill), with Remarks on certain oUier Species. 



y'rans. Connect. Acad. Vol. 9. 

 18956. CoE, W. R. Description of Three New Species of New England 



Palaeonemerteans. Ibid. 

 lyOl. CoE, W. R. Papers from the Harriman Alaska Expedition. XX. 



The Nemerteaus. Froc. Wanhingion Acad. Sci. Vol. 8. 

 *1853. Dalyell, J. G. The Powers of the Creator. London. 

 1851. DiESiXG, C. M. Systema Helminthum. Vol.1. Vindobonse. 

 *1847. Frey, H., and R. Leuckakt. Beitrage zur Kenntniss wirbelloser 



Thiere. Braunschweig. 

 1882. V. Graff, L. Monographic der Turbellarien. 1. Rhabdocoelida. 



Lei pzig. 

 1855. Grube, E. Bemerkungen iiber einige Helminthen und Meerwiirmer. 



Arch. f. Naturges. Jahrg. 21. 

 1831. Hemprich et Ehrknberg. Symbolai Physicre. Animalia everte- 



brata exclusis Insecta percensuit Dr. C. G. Ehrenberg. Berolini. 

 1887. HuBRECHT, A. A. W. Report on the Nemertea collected by H. M. S. 



"Challenger" during the years 1873-1876. "Challenger" Re- 

 port, Vol. 19. 

 1865. JonxsTON, G. A Catalogue of the British Non-Parasitical Worms in 



the Collection of the British Museum. 

 1862. Keferstein, W. Untersuchungen iiber niedere Seethiere. Zeit. f. 



Wiss. Zool. Bd. 12. 

 1848. KoLLlKER, A. Beitrage zur Kenntniss niederer Thiere. Zeit. f. 



WiSS. Zool. Bd. 1. 

 1858. Krohn, a. Ueber Pilidium und Actinotrocha. Arch. f. Anat., 



Physiol, und wiss. Mtd. Jahrg. 25 

 1896. Lee, A. B. The Microtomist's Vade-Mecum. London, 4th ed. 

 1858. Leuckart, R. Bericht iiber die Leistungen in der Naturgcschichte 



der Niederen Thiere wiihrend des Jahi es 1858. Arch. f. Naturges. 



Jahrg. 25, Bd. 2. 

 1858. Leuckart und Pagen.stecher. Untersuchungen iiber niedere See- 

 thiere. Arcli. f. Anat., Physiol, u. iciss. Med. Jahrg. 25. 

 1869. Metschxikoff, E. Studien iiber die Entwicklung der Echinodermen 



und Nemertinen. 3Iem. de V Acad. Imp. des Sci. de St. Peters- 



bourg. VIP Ser., T. 14. 

 1867. M'Intosh, W. C. On the Gregariniform Parasite of Borlasia. 



Trans. R. Micr. Soc. London. Vol. 15. 

 1869. M'lxTOSH, W. C. On the Structure of the British Nemerteans and 



some new Biitish Annelids. Trans. R. Soc. Edinburgh. Vol. 



25. 



1874. M'lxTOSH, W. C. A Monograph of the British Annelids. Pt. 1 con- 



tinued. The Nemerteans. London. Ray Society. 



1875. M'Intosh, W. C. On Valencinia Armandi, a new Nemertean. 



Trans. Linn. Soc. London (2). Vol. 1. 

 1879. M'lXTOSH, W. C. Marine Annelids from Kerguelen Land. Phil. 



Trans. Roy. Soc. London. Vol. 168. 

 1894. MoxTGOMERY, T. H. Stichostemma eilhardi nov. gen., nov. spec. 



Eio Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Nemertinen. Zeit. f. Wiss. Zool. 



Bd. 59. 

 1897a. MoxTGOMEEY, T. H. On the Connective Tissue and Body Cavities of 



the Nemerteans, with Notes on Classification. Spengel's Zool. 



Jahrl. Vol. 10. 




734 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. , 



I897i. Montgomery, T. H. Studies on the Elements of the Central Nervous 

 System of the Heterone martini. Journ. Morph. Vol. 13. 



1854. MuLLER, J. Ueber ver.^chiedene Formen von Seethieren. Arch. f. 



Anat., Physiol, u. wiss. Med. Jahrg. 21. 

 1788. MiJLLER, O. F. Zoologica Danica. Havnifc. 



1855. OUDEMAXS, A. C. The Circulatory and Nephridial Apparatus of the 



Nemertea. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. Vol. 25. 

 1900. FuxxETT, E. C. On a Collection of Nemerteans from Singapore. 



Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. Vol. 44. 

 1901a. PUNNETT, R. C. Nemerteans. Fauna and Georj. of Maldive and 



Laccadive Archipelaf/oes. Vol. I, Pt. 1. 

 19016. PuNNETT, R. C. On Two New British Nemerteans. Quart. Jonr. 



Micr. Sci. Vol. 44. 

 1846, QuATREFAGES, A. de. Etudes sur les types inferlenrs de I'embran- 



chement des Anueles. Ann. des. Sci. JVat. (3) T. 6. 

 1900a. Thompson, C. B. Preliminary Description of Zygenpolia litoralis, 

 a new Genus and new Species of Heteronemertean. Zool. Am. 



Bd. 23, No. 610. 

 19006. Thompson, C. B. Carinoma tremaphoros, a new Mesonemerteaa 



Species. Zool. Am. Bd. 23, No. 631. 

 1893. Verrill, a. E. The Marine Nemerteans of New England and 



Adjacent Waters. Trans. Connecticut Acad. Vol. 8. 



1895. Verrill, A. E. Supplement to the Marine Nemerteans and Planar- 



ians of New England. Trans. Connecticut Acad. Vol. 9. 

 1863. Wagener, G. K. Ueber die MuskelfaserderEvertebraten. Arch.f. 

 Anat., Physiol, u. wiss. Med. Jahrg. 30. 



1896. Wheeler, W. M. The Sexual Phases of Myzostoma. Mitt, aus 



der Zool. Stat, zn Neapel. Bd. 12. 

 1900. Wilson, C. B. The Habits and Early Development of Cerebratulns 

 lacteus (Verrill). Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. Vol. 43. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES XL-XLIV. 



All figures, except fig. 63, refer to Zygeupolia. The outlines of all 

 figures, except figs. 1, 4, 5, 6, have been drawn with the camera lucida of 

 Zeiss. 



The following reference letters are used in the figures : 



A., anus. 



Abs.C, absorptive cell. 



b., swollen portion of testis duct. 



B.L,, basement layer. 



P.M., basement membrane. 



PI. 31.. muscle of blood vessels. 



P. W., body wall. 



b.k.., baoal knob. 



Pl.f. C, blood-forming cell. 



Pl.L., blood lacuna. 



C, caudicle. 



C. W., caudicle wall. 



C.L.N., caudicle nerve. 



Cn.T., connective tissue. 



Gn.T.N., count'ctive tissue nucleus. 



Cn.T.S., connective tissue sheath. 



Contr. , contracted area. 



Chr., chromatin. 



Gil., cilia. 



Ctl., cuticle. 



Cu.Gl.-i, red-staining cutis gland 

 cell — coarse type. 



Cu. Gl-iy, red-staining cutis gland 

 cell — fine type. 



Cu,. Gl.2, blue-staining cutis gland 

 cell. 



Gy., cytoplasm. 



C.-V., cerebral nerve. 



G. Org., cerebral organ. 



G. Org. v., cerebral organ blood ves- 

 sel. 



CM., circular muscle. 



C.M.p.s., circular muscle of probos- 

 cis sheath. 



Gil. C, ciliated canal. 



Cil.P., ciliated pit. 



D. Comni., dorsal commissure. 



D.L., dor.sal lobe. 



D.N., dorsal nerve. 



D.V., dorsal blood vessel. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



735 



D.m.cr., dorsal muscular cross. 



Dl. V-, dorso-lateral blood vessel. 



(It., duct. 



E.I., end intestine. 



Ep., epithelium. 



Ep.3I., epithelial muscle. 



Bp.p.s., epithelium of proboscis 



sheatb. 

 Ep.m.f., epithelial muscle fibrils. 

 End.., endothelium. 

 Exc.d., excretory duct. 

 G. C, ganglion cell. 

 O.C.i, ganglion cell I. 

 G. Cii, ganglion cell II. 

 G. Cm, gang ion cell III. 

 Gl-i, red staining gland cell. 

 01.2, blue-staining gland cell. 

 Gl.R., glandular ridge. 

 Gon., gonad. 

 Gon.W., gonad wall. 

 H.M., horizontal muscle. 

 H. v., head blood vessel. 

 i. CM., inner circular muscle. 

 i.L.M., inner longitudinal muscle. 

 i.B.L., inner basement layer. 

 i.Ep., inner epithelium. 

 i. O.mb., inner egg membrane. 

 f. Cce., intestinal caecum. 

 L.O., lateral groove. 

 L.M., longitudinal muscle. 

 L.M.f., longitudinal muscle fibre. 

 L.M.p.s., longitudinal mu.?cle of 



proboscis sheath. 

 L.N., lateral nerve. 

 L. F., lateral blood vessel. 

 I.D.N. , lower dorsal nerve. 

 mes., mesenchym. 

 M., mouth. 

 m.b., middle piece. 

 M. v., median blood vessel. 

 M.I., middle intestine. 

 M.S., muscle strand. 

 N.J nucleus. 

 N.^, nucleus that has divided ami- 



totically. 

 N.Par., nucleus of parasite. 

 n., nucleolus. 

 n.tiac., nucleolar vacuole. 

 n.p., nerve plexus. 

 Nph., nephridia. 

 Nph.D., nephridial main duct. 

 NpJi.d., nephridial ductule. 

 Oes., oesophagus. 

 Oe.N., oesophageal nerve. 



Oe.NComm., oesophageal nerve 

 commissure. 



Oe.Ep., cesophageal epithelium. 



Oo., ovary. 



0., ovarian egg. 



<7 ,, youngest ovarian egg figured. 



0.2, slightly older than 0,. 



0.3. slightly older than O^. 



0. O.mb. , outer egg membrane. 



o.Ep., outer epithelium. 



0. CM., outer circular muscle. 



O.B.L., outer basement layer. 



P., proboscis. 



P.N., proboscis nerve. 



P.S., proboscis sheath. 



P.p., proboscis pore. 



Par., parasite. 



Pc, rhynchoccel. 



Rd., rhyncbodajum. 



Rd.m., rhynchodseum muscle. 



Rc.Ep., rhynchocoel epithelium. 



Rhb., rhabdites. 



r.m.f., radial muscle fibres. 



8., stomach. 



S.Ep., stomach epithelium. 



S. C, supporting cell. 



Sec, secretion. 



St., stalk. 



Spff., spermatogonia. 



Spz., spermatozoa. 



1\, testis. 



T.d., testis duct. 



Th., secretions (?) of proboscis epi- 

 thelial cells. 



T.B., terminal bulb. 



U.D.N., upper dorsal nerve. 



it.k., upper knob. 



V. Comm., ventral commissure. 



V.L., ventral lobe. 



V.bl.con., ventral blood connective. 



V.m.cr., ventral muscular cross. 



w., subepithelial cesophageal gland 

 cells. 



.v., intracellular ciliary prolongations. 



A'(/., dorsal muscular cross of probos- 

 cis. 



Xv., ventral muscular cross of pro- 

 boscis. 



y., attachment of proboscis to body 

 wall. 



yk., yolk. 



s., bending out of fibres from inner 

 part of proboscis sheath. 



Plate XL, Fig. 1. — Diagrammatic horizontal optical section of the 

 anterior part of the body. 



Fig. 2. — Combined drawing of parts of a cross section of the body epi- 




736 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



thelium and the outer longitudinal muscle layer, from the brain region. 

 Gilsoa's fluid. X 601. 



Fig. 3. — Ganglion cell IV (ueurochord cell), from the ventral brain lobe. 

 X 1120. 



Fig. 4. — Sketch of living worm, natural size and color. This represents 

 the appearance of the worm in extension; the posterior end is thin and 

 flattened and the colors are dull. The light colored median line represents 

 the rhynchoccel. 



Fig. 5. — Sketch of living worm, natural size. The worm is at rest, but 

 not contracted, and the colors are brighter than in the extended s'ate. The 

 cross lines in the posterior part indicate the intestinal caica and the gonads. 



Fig. 6. — Sketch of living worm, natural size, at rest. The white spots in 

 the posterior part represent parasites. 



Fig. 7. — Supporting cell from the epithelium of the ciliated pit of the 

 cerebral organ. X 1120. 



Fig. 8.— Ganglion cell III, from the brain. X 1120. 



Fig. 9. — Ganglion cell I, from the brain. X 1120. 



Fig. 10. — A cluster of ganglion cells of type II, from the ventral brain 

 lobe. X 1120. 



Fig. 11. — Two gland cells from the epidermis of the caudicle, in an early 

 phase of secretion. X 1120. 



Fig. 12. — Portion of a cr<)ss section of the caudicle epidermis. X 604. 



Fig. 13. — A part of the circular muscle layer from the posterior end of the 

 bo ly, in longitudinal section. Flemming's fluid, iron-haematoxylin. 

 Gontr. represents the contracted fibrillar areas which occur at regular inter- 

 vals, with light non-contracted regions between. Smaller contracted streaks 

 may be seen half-way between the larger ones. X 320. 



Fig. 14. — Two supporting cells from a cross section of the body epithe- 

 lium. Flemming's fluid, saffronin, gentian violet and iodine. The stalks 

 are relatively longer than in preparations from different fixatives, x. indi- 

 cates the intracellular ciliary prolongations. X 32U0 circ. 



Fig. 15. — Cells of the body epithelium and cutis gland cells, from poster- 

 ior end of the body. The blue-staining cutis glands of this region are much 

 shorter than the red-staining glands, and both are smaller than the similar 

 glands of the anterior end. Gilson's fluid. X 604. 



Fig. 16. — Optical horizontal section of the brain and mouth region. The 

 main outlines drawn from life and diagrammatized. The blood system (in 

 red) and the oesophageal nerve commissure are reconstructed from sections. 

 X29. 



Fig. 17. — Optical horizontal section of the posterior end of the body and 

 the caudicle. The main outlines drawn from life and diagrammatized. 

 The blood system (in red) is reconstructed from sections. X 29. 



Plate XLT, Fig. 18. — Part of a cross section through the head, anterior to 

 the brain. The rhynchodajum, Rd., surrounded by four bundles of longi- 

 tudinal muscle, lid. in., occupies the centre of the section. From the interlac- 

 ing of the radial muscle fibres, r.itif., a layer of circular muscle, CM, is 

 formed, which becomes the circular muscle of the proboscis sheath, x 70. 



Fig. 19. — Part of a cross section of the brain through the dorsal comtnis- 

 sure, showing that the dorsal commissure in this ."pt-cimen is composed of 

 fibres coming from both dor.*al and ventral lobes. The attachment of the 

 proboscis to the body w.ill is also shown. X 70. 



Fig. 20. — Part of a cross section of the body through the ventral brain 

 commissure. The section is rather obliquely cut, so that the right and left 

 sides are not quite similar. X 70. 



Fig. 21. — Part of a cro.ss section of the body through the cerebral organs. 

 The section is quite oblique, so that its plane paKSses through the anterior 

 part of the cerebral organ and the ciliated pit, Oil.P., but through the pos- 

 terior end of the left cerebral organ. X 70. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 737 



Fig. 22. — rart of a cross .section of the body through the oesophageal 

 region. The anterior end of tlie uephiidial main diut, NjiIlD., is shown, 

 and the large expanded \eutral blood connectives, V.bl.con., are very prom- 

 inent. X 70. 



Fig. 23. — Part of a cro«s section of the body immediately in front of the 

 beginning of the middle iutestine, showing the inner circular muscle layer, 

 i.O.M., and the dorsal and ventral nni.scular crosses, D.m.cr., V.m.cr., 

 between the inner and outer circular muscle layers. The much enlarged 

 upper and lower dorsal nerves, u.D.N., I.B.N., are very prominent. 

 X 70. 



Fig. 24. — Part of a cross section of the body of a male in the region of the 

 gonads. The plane of the section passes througli one of the intestinal cscoa, 

 I.Cae., and the narrower part of the testis. The duct of the right band 

 testis is shown, T.d. The sexual products of this individual are only partly 

 mature, most of the cells being in the spermatogonic stage, Spg. X 70. 



Fig. 25. — Part of a cross section of the body of a female in the region of 

 the gonads. The oldest ova, 0., are free in the centre, the youngest are 

 attached to the wall of the gonad. Two encj'sted parasitic bodies, Far., are 

 present in the left-hand ovary. X 70. 



Fig. 26. — Cross section through the posterior region of the body, showing 

 the simple end intestine, E.I., without lateral caeca, and the two dorso- 

 lateral blooil vessels, DL V., that have resulted from a forking of the dorsal 

 vessel. The gonads are absent from this region. X 70. 



Fig. 27. — Cross section through the junction of the caudicle with the body; 

 the upper part of the figure belongs to the body, the lower part to the cau- 

 dicle. The different character of the walls of the two parts is very evident. 

 The end intestine, -£'./., has a dorsal position, and is about to open into the 

 anus. 



Fig. 28. — Cross section through the caudicle, showing the caudicle wall 

 and the central blood lacuna, Bl.L. The great numbers of connective tissue 

 cells, Cii.T.N., actually present are, for the sake of clearness, only approx- 

 imately represented. X 320. 



Plate XLII, Fig. 29. — Portion of a cross section of the epithelium of the 

 median blood vessel. X 604. 



Fig. 30. — Part of a cross section of the proboscis sheath, about 1.8 mm. in 

 front of the beginning of the middle intestine, showing the origin of the in- 

 ner circular muscle layer from circular fibres of the proboscis sheath. The 

 innermost circular fibres of the proboscis sheath bend outward at z. and run 

 beneath the stomach, thus forming the inner circular muscle layer, x 240. 



Fig. 31.— Part of a cro~s .section of the epithelium of the oesophagus, from 

 the anterior region, showing the subepithelial gland cells, w. X 604. • 



Fig. 32. — Portion of the epithelium of the stomach, from a cross section. 

 X 604. 



Fig. 33. — Half of a cross secetion of the alimentary tract through the 

 junction of the oesophagus and the stomach. The upper part of the figure 

 shows the epithelium of the stomach, S.Ep.; the lower part that of the 

 oesophagus, (Je.JEp. A fold, /., probably represents a primitive valve. 

 X 320. 



Fig. 34. — Part of a cross section of the epithelium of the middle intestine 

 from the posterior region. The cilia are slightly diagrammatic, being 

 usually massed together in fixed preparations. X 604. 



Fig. 35. — Cross section through the "anterior region" of the proboscis. 

 X 320. 



Fig. 36. — Cross section through a portion of the "glandular ridge" of the 

 proboscis, showing several aL'gregations of rhabdiies, lihb. X 604. 



Fig. 37. — Tangential section of a portion of the proboscis from the " mid- 



47 




738 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



die region," showing the longitudinal muscle, L.M., with the subepithelial 

 muscle fibrils above, running transversely. X 004. 



Fig. 38. — Part of a longitudinal section of the proboscis, from the "mid- 

 dle region," showing the subepithelial muscle fibrils in transverse section. 

 The outer flattened epithelium is extremely thin. X 1120. 



Fig. 39. — Part of a longitudinal section of the proboscis, from the " poster- 

 ior region." The outer epithelium, o.Ep., is composed of cells of consider- 

 able height, with abundant cytoplasm. The subepithelial muscle fibres, 

 Ep.m.f., are thickened in this region. X 1120. 



Fig. 40. — Cross section through the "middle region" of the proboscis, 

 showing both dorsal and ventral muscular crosses, Xcl., Xc. The lateral 

 nerves form a continuous plexus, n.p. The glandular ridge of the dorsal 

 surface is very prominent, Gl.R. X 330. 



Fig. 41. — Cross section through the " posterior region " of the proboscis, 

 some distance anterior to its termination. The proboscis nerves are again 

 separate, P.N. X 320. 



Fig. 42. — Small "rhynohocoel corpuscles." X 1120. 



Fig. 43. — Large cells from the fluid of the rhynchocoel, "rhynchocffil cor- 

 puscles." The two nuclei, N., are probably the result of amitosis. 

 X 1120. 



Fig. 44. — Portion of a cross section of the proboscis immediately poster- 

 ior to its insertion, showing the regular brick-shaped cells of the outer 

 epithelium, o. Ep. The subepithelial muscle fibrils are absent from this, the 

 most anterior, region. X 604. 



Plate XLIII, Fig. 45. — Portion of a cross section through the body wall, 

 showing the excretory duct of the left nephridium. Excel. X 128. 



Fig. 46. — Portion of a cross section of the body, showing the left lateral 

 blood vessel, L. V., with the adjacent nephridial main duct, Nph.D., and a 

 ductule, Nph.d. X 320. 



Fig. 47. — Portion of a cross section of the body, showing the right lateral 

 blood vessel, L. V., into which project two terminal bulbs of the nephridia, 

 T.B. The epithelium of the blood vessel is not continued around the ends 

 of the terminal bulbs. X 604. 



Fig. 48. — Cross section of an ovum infected with a stage of a parasite 

 older (?) than that shown in fig. (Jl. X 604. 



Fig. 49. — Cross section of one of the dorso-lateral blood vessels. X 604. 



Fig. 50. — Portion of a cross section through the anterior part of the 

 rhynchocoel, showing the dorsal blood vessel. The endothelium. End., of 

 the ventral wall of the vessel is very distinct, but that of the dorsal wall is 

 interrupted by the proliferation of blood-forming cells, Bl.f. C. X 604. 



Fig. 51. — Cro-ss section of the dorsal blood vessel after it has left the 

 rhynchocoel. A network of connective tissue cells, Cii.T.N., surrounds the 

 blood vessel. X 604. 



Fig. 52. — Cro.ss section of the oldest stage of an immature ovum, free in 

 the centre of the gonad. The thick outer, o. O.mb., and the thin inner, 

 i. O.mb., egg membranes are shown. X 604. 



Fig. 53. — Surface view of the gonad epithelium. X 604. 



Fig. 54. — Portion of a cross section through an ovary, containing only 

 young stages. O.j represent the youngest ova figured, O.j and 0.^ older 

 forms. X 240. 



Fig. 55. — Portion of a cross section of the body wall, showing a testis 

 duct, T.d., with an expanded distal portion, h. The longitudinal muscle 

 layers of the body wall are not indicated. X 320. 



Fig. 56. — Horizontal optical section of a portion of the posterior body 

 region. Drawn from life, showing gonads filled with ova between the 

 intestinal caeca. The large body, Par., in the middle gonad is the cyst of a 

 parasite. X 70. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 739 



Fig. 57. — Portion of a cross section through the testis, showing the mar- 

 ginal spermatogonia. X 6()4. 



Fig. 58. — Spermatozoa, the middle piece seen in side view and appearirg 

 bilobed. A minute point is present at the tip of the head. Iron-haima- 

 toxyliu, strongly destaiued. X 1120. 



Fig. 59. — Spermatozoan, and a detached middle piece, m.h., which is four- 

 iobed. Iron-hiBniatoxyliu, not strongly destaiued. X 1120. 



Fig. 60. — Portion of a cross section through the body wall and ovary, 

 showing an encysted stage of a parasite, P*^?'. The stiiated cuticle, Ctl., is 

 surrounded by a delicate membrane. Two egg nuclei, N., are to be seen in 

 the cytoplasm at the base of the cyst.'^ The nucleus within the cyst, N.Far., 

 is amcEboid. X 320. 



Fig. Gl. — Cross section of an ovum infected with a young (?) stage of a 

 parasite, Par. x 604. 



Plate XLIV, Fig. 62. — Part of a cro^s section of the body wall through 

 one of the •' lateral grooves," L. G. The individual cells of the groove are 

 not clearly distinguishable with this magnification. 95 per cent, alcohol. 

 X 320. 



Fig. 63. — Portion of a cross section through the body wall of Partipolia 

 mii'antiaca Coe, showing the "lateral gioove." The " lateral groove " is 

 here everted, and appears as an elevation above the general surface level. 

 The cutis glands, C>i.G[.„ of the "groove" are large and ai e not found in 

 other parts of the section. X 40. 



^'The reference line from Ctl. only extends as far as the egg membrane, 

 instead of to the cuticle within. 







Dec, 1901.] NATURAL 3CIE^fCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 741 



The following reports were ordered to be printed : 

 REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT. 



Upon the removal of the Academy to its present location in 

 1876, the President, Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, prepared a 

 brief history of the institution, with a summary of its collections 

 and publications, which appeared in the popular guide to the 

 Museum in that year. 



Subsequently throughout his term of office, Dr. Ruschenberger 

 presented a President's annual report, the last appearing in the 

 Proceedings for 1881. 



His successors having discontinued this practice, there has been 

 no summarized account of the operations of the Academy during 

 the past twenty years, and it is my purpose, to present such a 

 resume in the following pages. 



During this period three members have occupied the President's 

 chair, Dr. Joseph Leidy, Gen. Isaac J. Wistar and Dr. Samuel G. 

 Dixon. William S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, Henry C. McCook 

 and Arthur Erwin Brown have served as Vice-Presidents ; William 

 C. Henzey, Isaac C. Martindale, Charles P. Perot and George 

 Vaux, Jr., as Treasurers; George H. Horn and Benjamin Sharp 

 as Corresponding Secretaries, while Edward J. Nolan has contin- 

 ued as Recording Secretary and Librarian throughout the entire 

 period. 



To the membership there have been added 505 names, while 374 

 have been lost by resignation or death. Among the latter are 

 many of the Academy's staunchest supporters, to whom her present 

 prosperous condition is largely due, and many of her most brilliant 

 students, who by their labors have spread her reputation to aU 

 parts of the world. 



During this period the regular weekly meetings of the Academy 

 have been held, the attendance decreasing as natural history 

 became more and more specialized. Verbal communications of 

 importance have been made both by members and visitors, and 

 various explorers have by request presented reports of their expedi- 




742 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



tions before the society. The specialists have continueJ to hold 

 their independent meetings with most satisfactory results. Of 

 late years, by a mutual arrangement, the several Sections have been 

 given precedence at certain specified meetings of the Academy, 

 with the object of bringing before the general meetings the more 

 important communications presented at the less formal Section 

 meetings. 



■ With the object of fostering and encouraging small scientific 

 organizations, especially those composed of younger students, the 

 Academy has freely granted the use of its halls for meetings, and 

 during the past decade the Geographical Society, Delaware Valley 

 Ornithological Club, Philadelphia Botanical Club, Students' Min- 

 eralogical Club, Students' Entomological Society, Myeological 

 Club, Leidy Association, Philadelphia Moss Chapter, Wood's Hole 

 Biological Association, Odontographical and Auti -Tuberculosis 

 Societies and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have availed themselves 

 of this privilege, thus bringing many people in touch with the 

 Academy and eventually adding to its membership. 



Besides these organizations, a number of State and National 

 societies have, during this period, been invited to hold their con- 

 ventions in the building, notably the American Society of Natural- 

 ists, in 1891; the Pennsylvania Veterinarian Society, in 1894; 

 and the American Ornithologists' Union, in 1899. 



The Proceedings and Journal of the Academy have been issued 

 continuously since 1881, as previously. Twenty-one volumes of the 

 former and four of the latter have appeared, comprising in all 

 12,100 pages. These contain contributions not only from the 

 members of the Academy, but from eminent scientists from various 

 parts of America and Europe. 



During the past twenty years the Proceedings have been sent in 

 exchange to a constantly increasing list of scientific societies 

 throughout the world. Beginning with the year 1900 the Acad- 

 emy, through its increased endowment, has been enabled to distrib- 

 ute the volumes to its inembeis, a course that had long been 

 desired. There have also been issued from the Academy and 

 allied societies the Transactions of the American Entomological 

 Society, the Entomological News, and the Manual of Conehology, 

 while the Nautilus has been edited by the Conservator of the Con- 

 chological Section. 




1901. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 743 



In 1885 the Committee on Lectures and Instruction established 

 an annual series of lectures by men of eminence iu various 

 branches of science, as well as afternoon classes conducted by the 

 Academy's professors. For both series a charge was made to cover 

 expenses. These courses were held annually until the w'inter of 

 1896-7, when a proposition was made by the Ludwick Institute, 

 whereby the Committee of the Academy should cooperate with the 

 Institute in an'angiug courses of lectures on natural science and 

 allied subjects, to be given in the Academy's Lecture Hall and to be 

 free to the public, though primarily for the benefit of public school 

 teachers, the Ludwick Institute bearing all the expenses. 

 „ Under this arrangement six to eight courses of five lectures each 

 have been given annually by members of the Academy. 



The Jessup Fund, originally established iu 1860 for the assistance 

 of young men fitting themselves for scientific work, has during 

 the past tw^enty years aided many students, who have in turn ren- 

 dered most important assistance to the Academy in the care and 

 arrangement of collections. In 1888, Mrs. Clara Jessup Moore 

 established a similar fund of S5,000 for the assistance of young 

 women, three having up to this time profited by this endowment. 



From 1890 to 1899 a medal and cash payment were annually 

 bestowed by the Academy upon the geologist who had accom- 

 plished the most meritorious work during the year. Since then 

 a gold medal has been awarded triennially. This award, known 

 as the Hayden Memorial, is secured by a fund given by Mrs. 

 Hayden in memory of her husband, Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Up to the year 1900 the Academy's growth had far exceeded its 

 endowment. The funds at the disposal of the institution were 

 entirely consumed in the expenses incident to supporting the 

 museum, the publications and the library. The salaried assistance 

 was wholly inadequate to the needs of the institution, and, as pre- 

 viously, most of the work of arranging and caring for the collec- 

 tions was performed voluntarily or by students of the Jessup Fund. 

 Members had always been most liberal iu contributing to special 

 funds for the purchase of collections, but the Endowment Fund, 

 owing to the broadening of the work of the Academy, became 

 yearly less adequate. 



Since 1890, however, the Academy has received liberal bequests. 




744 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



which have been of the utmost importance hi the consummation of 

 plans for future development. 



George S. Pepper, in 1900, bequeathed to the Academy S25,000 

 and a percentage of his residuary estate, the amounts to be held in 

 trust, the income only to be applied to the uses of the institution. 



The James Aitken Meigs Fund was erected on the legacy of 

 John G. Meigs, of $20,000, and the library of his son, James 

 Aitken Meigs, M.D., a former Librarian of the Academy. Ten 

 thousand dollars of this was left for the care and increase of the 

 library and the remainder without condition. 



From Miss Anna T. Jeanes was received the gift of $20,000, to 

 be known as the Mary Jeanes Fund, the interest to be used for the 

 care and increase of the museum. 



In addition to amounts noted in earlier reports, S16,650 have 

 been received from the Henry N. Johnson estate for the general 

 purposes of the Academy. 



Robert T. Lamborn, M.D. , who died iij 1895, bequeathed his 

 estate to the Academy, " to be used in biological and anthropological 

 researches, the income only to be Uf^ed and the principal reinvested." 

 A question as to the validity of the will under the New York State 

 law having been raised by the heirs-at-law, a compromise was 

 effected on the basis of one- half the estate coming to the Academy 

 and the balance to them. Up to the present time $365,000 have 

 been realized for the society. A conservative estimate places the 

 value of the Academy's portion of the estate at half a million. 



Charles E. Smith, in 1900, bequeathed his botanical books, 

 maps, collections and one-sixth part of the sum realized from the 

 sale of refjl and personal property, the interest accruing from such 

 sum to be applied to and expended on maintenance and for no other 

 purpose whatever. Twenty -five thousand dollars have been realized 

 from this source to date, with the certainty of important additions 

 in the future. 



As soon as the earlier of tliese legacies became available, steps 

 were at once taken to broaden the work of the institution in vari- 

 ous directions. The Proceedings were distributed to members; the 

 salaries of the scientific staff were increased; three new assistants 

 engaged; improvements were made to the buildings; new cases 

 were substituted for those originally erected in the museum, and 

 important additions to the shelving capacity of the library were 




1901,] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 745 



provided. The work of expansion is still in progress, and to 

 understand properly the advance that has been made it is necessary 

 to revert again to the removal of the Academy to its present quar- 

 ters in 1876. 



At that time only a ])art of the building as originally planned 

 had been completed, and the collections and library of the Academy 

 even then practically filled all the available space. The constant 

 inci'ease during the subsequent ten years caused such overcrowding 

 that the systematic arrangement of the museum became an impos- 

 sibility, and much valuable material was practically inaccessible. 



In 1889 and 1891 two appropriations of 650,000 each were 

 secured from the State Legislature. These sums, together with 

 private subscriptions, made possible the much-needed additions to 

 the premises. The Lecture Hall was completed the following year, 

 and formally opened on February 22, 1892. Lectures previously 

 given in the Library have since then been delivered in the new 

 Hall, which has been furnished with a lantern and screen and 

 seating accommodations for 350 persons. 



The new wing of the museum was not completed until some 

 years later and was finally opened on October 20, 1896. 



Owing to the lack of funds only two floors could then be 

 opened, and only a part of one of them was furnished with new 

 cases. Since then, however, new cases of plate glass with oak or 

 mahogany woodwork have almost entirely replaced the old ones on 

 these floors, as well as in portions of the old building, and the 

 furnishing of the third floor of the new Museum is so far advanced 

 that it will be opened during the coming year. 



In the character and care of the various collections the greatest 

 changes have taken place, mainly since the recent increase in our 

 endowment, though in several departments the plans were laid 

 and work begun several years ago. The old idea of exhibiting 

 every specimen has been dispensed with, and the need of study 

 collections of large series of specimens has been recognized. 



Large numbers of birds and mammals, especially types and 

 unique specimens, have been unmounted and stored in moth-proof 

 cabinets, free from light and dust, and their preservation insured. 

 These have been arranged in the study rooms, whei'e they can be 

 easily examined, while still larger numbers of similar study speci- 

 mens have been added by purchase and gift. A corresponding 




746 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



arrangement of the mollusca has also been instituted. The entire 

 series of alcoholics has been removed from the exhibition rooms 

 and placed in compactly arranged cases in the basement, where 

 some 100,000 specimens are within easy reach of the student who 

 desires to consult them, being at the same time largely shielded 

 from the light, the great destroyer of pigment. For exhibition 

 there is being installed by the liberality of Mr. Clarence B. Moore 

 a series of plaster casts of snakes, colored and mounted amid 

 natural surroundings, which are far more instructive to the general 

 public than the alcoholics that have been removed. 



In the Botanical department the modern plan of mounting the 

 specimens upon uniform standard herbarium sheets, begun some time 

 ago, has been finished during the present year, with the exception 

 of certain special collections. 



The museum catalogues are the Avork of recent years. In 1893 

 uniform catalogues were provided for all departments, except En- 

 tomology and Botany. In some only the accessions since that date 

 have beeu entered, but in the cases of the mammals, birds, rep- 

 tiles, fishes and minerals every specimen has been numbered and 

 entered in its respective catalogue. In the case of disarticulated 

 skeletons every bone has been numbered. 



These catalogues are necessarily ouly accession lists, but a sys- 

 tematic card catalogue of the mammals has been prepared, showing 

 at a glance exactly what the Academy possesses in this department 

 of the museum. 



The character of the exhibition specimens has also beeu much im- 

 proved. In 1892, a taxidermist was employed and all mammals 

 and birds since prepared for exhibition have been mounted in the 

 most approved manner. A large number of mammals have beeu 

 jn-epared during the past ten years, and so far as the larger forms 

 are concerned, they have replaced the grotesque and faded stuffed 

 specimens of earlier years, while a local collection of birds, 

 mounted in groups, with nests and eggs, has replaced the old 

 series. 



The Academy's efforts of late years have been mainly devoted 

 to the renovation of the museum, the increase of the collections 

 and library, and the expansion of the publications. Nevertheless, 

 a number of expeditions have been sent out in its interest through 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 747 



special subscriptions, while many private individuals have con- 

 tributed results of their explorations to the institution. 



Under the former head may be mentioned the expeditions to 

 Bermuda in 1888, Mexico in 1890, under the leadership of Angelo 

 Heilprin; the Greenland Expeditious of 1891 and 1892; Prof. 

 Cope's trip through the fossil beds of the "West in 1893, and many 

 minor collecting ti'ips. 



Among private expeditions may be mentioned those of Dr. Ben- 

 jamin Sharp to Hawaii and Alaska, Dr. W. L. Abbott to Africa, 

 Dr. A. Donaldson Smith to Somaliland and Lake Rudolf, the 

 Messrs. Faruum to Mongolia, while Mr. Alfred C. Harrison and 

 Dr. H. M. Hiller are at present exploring Sumatra, partially in the 

 Academy's interest. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore's archaeological explorations in Florida 

 and Georgia ; the exploration of the Port Kennedy fossil deposit, 

 in the years ] 894-96, under the direction of Dr. Samuel G. 

 Dixon, assisted by Mr. H. C. Mercer; Mr. C. W. Johnson's expe- 

 ditions to the Southern fossil beds, under the direction of Dr. L. T. 

 Chamberlain, and Mr. Henry G. Bryant's expeditions to Labra- 

 dor, Greenland and Alaska have also been productive of important 

 results. 



The increase in collections, especially since modern methods have 

 been instituted in the Museum, has been so continuous and impor- 

 tant that it is impossible even to summarize it in this brief space. 

 Some idea, however, may be gained from the statements furnished 

 by several special departments. 



The Ornithological collection, which was formerly regarded as 

 the Academy's most notable department, contained at the time of 

 Dr. Ruschenberger's last report 24,000 specimens; to-day it num- 

 bers 46,000. The Conchological department since 1887 alone has 

 added 30,000 lots to what was before regarded as the leading col- 

 lection in the world. Other collections have increased at nearly 

 the same rate, as illustrated by 6,000 additions to the department 

 of reptiles, mainly the private collection of Prof. Edward D. 

 Cope, and one prepared by Mr. A. E. Brown; 14,000 to the col- 

 lection of butterflies; the William S. Vaux Collection of Minerals; 

 the Isaac Lea Collection of eocene fossils, for which we are 

 indebted to the Rev. Leander Trowbridge Chamberlain, D. D., and 

 the Clarence B. Moore Archreological Collection. 




748 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Only passing mention has been made of the growth of the 

 library, not because of any lack of development in this depart- 

 ment, but because the Librarian purposes, in his annual report, to 

 review the history of the library since the organization of the 

 society. The development of this important section of the Acad- 

 emy, it will be seen, has kept pace with that of its other depart- 

 ments. 



The present condition of the society, in its museum, its library 

 and the work of its Publication Committee, is most encouraging, 

 and gives every assurance of future success in maintaining the high 

 standards established by the devoted men who have contributed 

 so much intellectually and financially to the advancement of 

 science. 



Sajiuel G. Dixon, 



Pre-ndent. 



' REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The meetings of the Academy have been held during the year 

 with three intermissions, due to the lack of a quorum on July 30, 

 August 13 and September 17. The average of attendance at the 

 sessions that were held was sixteen. Verbal communications were 

 made by Messrs. Rand, Rhoads, Pilsbry, Arthur E. Brown, 

 Harshberger, Woolmau, MacElwee, Sharp, Chapman, Dixon, 

 Roseberger, U. C. Smith, Skinner, J. Cheston Morris, T. H. Mont- 

 gomery, Calvert, Conklin, Seiss, Gerson, Keeley, J. P. Moore, 

 Goldsmith, Lyman, Keller, Murlin^ Stone, Palmer, Kraemer, 

 Crawley, S. Brown, Ravenel and McCarthy. Interesting discus- 

 sion occasionally followed these communications, the substance of 

 which was frequently embodied in the more formal papers pre- 

 sented later for publication, hence but few of the verbal contribu- 

 tions to the meetings have been prepared for the published Pro- 

 ceedings. 



Seven hundred and thirty pages of the Proceedings, with thirty- 

 four plates, have been issued since the last report. The fourth 

 number, or the conclusion of the eleventh volume of the Journal, 

 consisting of ninety-eight pages, copiously illustrated by text 

 figures, was also published, the expense of printing and il lustra- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA . 749 



tions being defrayed by Mr. Clarence B. Moore, to whom the 

 Academy is again indebted for this proof of his continued interest. 



The Eatomological Section (American Entomological Society) 

 has published two hundred and seventy six pages of the Trans- 

 actions with ten plates and three hundred and twenty-eight pages 

 of the Entomological News with thirteen plates. 



The Manual of Conchology has been continued under the auspices 

 of the Conchological Section, two hundred and seventy-one pages 

 and sixty plates having been issued during the year. 



The published contributions to science by the Academy and its 

 Sections during the year amount, therefore, to 1703 pages and 117 

 plates. 



The statistics of distribution are as follows : 



Proceedings, delivered to members, 548 



" exchanged for other publications, - . . . . 574 

 ' ' sent to subscribers, . . 40 



1,162 



Journal, exchanges, 68 



" subscribers, 34 



102 



The published edition of the Proceedings is 1,500; of the Jour- 

 nal, 500. 



Fifty-six papers have been presented for publication during the 

 year, as follows: Henry A. Pilsbry, 10; Henry W. Fowler, 6; 

 James A. G. Rehn, 4; John W. Harshberger, 4; Thomas H. 

 Montgomery, Jr., 3; Clarence B. Moore, 2; T. D. A. Cockerell, 

 2; Arthur E. Brown, 2; Adele M. Fielde, 2; S. N. Rhoads, 1; 

 Helen T. Higgins, 1; A. E. Ortmann, 1; Walter M. Rankin, 1; 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 1 ; Henry Fox, 1 ; George and AVilliam S. 

 Vaux, 1: Thomas Meehan, 1; Henry C. Chapman, 1; Caroline 

 B. Thompson, 1; Ida A. Keller, 1; Henry Kraemer, 1; Benja- 

 min H, Smith, 1 ; A.. M. Reese, 1 ; M. Louise Nichols, 1 ; Harold 

 Heath and M. H. Spauldiug, 1 ; Carrie B. Aaron, 1 ; Thomas L. 

 Casey, 1; C. W. Johnson and A. W. Grabau, 1; E. Goldsmith, 

 1 ; Nathan Banks, 1. Forly-seven of these have been printed in 

 the Proceedings, two in the Journal, three were withdrawn by the 




750 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



authors, one was returned to the author, one was transferred to the 

 Entomological Section, and two await action. A communication 

 from F. Rynchowski, of Lemberg, embodying his researches on the 

 " Electroid (Eceroid) " was, with the author's consent, referred 

 to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



The first year of the new century sees the completion of the 

 fifty-third volume of the Proceedings and the eleventh volume of 

 the quarto or second series of the Journal. The first series in 

 octavo, in eight volumes, extended from 1817 to 1842. The 

 Academy's entire serial contributions to science, therefore, now 

 consists of seventy-two volumes. The earlier issues, especially, 

 formed almost tbe only means by which the working naturalists of 

 America could communicate with those of kindred interests else- 

 where, and much of the results of the original investigations of 

 Say, Ord, LeSeuer, Nuttall, Maclure, Horner, Mitchell, Rafiu- 

 esque. Lea, Hentz, Troost, Vanuxem, De Schweinitz and many 

 others of the leading naturalists of America are to be found in 

 these volumes. An index to this collection of scientific papers is 

 manifestly desirable, and would j^robably be regarded by students 

 as a valuable aid in their work. The present time is especially ap- 

 propriate for its publication, because it would not only form a 

 guide to all that the Academy has given to the world during the 

 last century, but it would be continued without break or repetition 

 by the proposed index to scientific literature which is about to be 

 prepared under the auspices of the Royal Society of London, as 

 the result of international cooperation. The compilation is recom- 

 mended of an index that will be a complete and reliable guide to 

 the contents of the Academy's serial publications, consisting of 

 perhaps three sections devoted to author, subject and species 

 entries. It does not seem desirable in the course of the work to 

 attempt the decision of questions of priority or the determination of 

 synonymy. 



Fourteen members and five correspondents have been elected. 

 The deaths of five members and six correspondents have been 

 announced and the following members have resigned: Edw. H. 

 Coates, Robert S Davis, Edw, Gideon, William DeCou, Vickers 

 Oberholzer, A. H. Stewart, W. E. Barrows and Thomas Stesv- 

 ardson. 



A severe loss was sustained in the death, November 19, of Mr. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 751 



Thomas Meehan, whose conscientious devotion to the welfare of 

 the Academy, and especially of its Botanical department, during 

 more than for(y years of membership, is warmly appreciated by 

 his associates. A minute embodying the Academy's sense of its 

 loss has been published in the Proceedings and a biographical 

 notice, to be read at an early meeting, is in course of preparation by 

 Dr. John MacFarlane. 



A reception was tendered to Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, to whom 

 the Academy is indebted for valuable additions to the Museum, on 

 his last return from Africa. The occasion was enjoyed by many 

 who were interested in Dr. Smith's work as an explorer. 



The President has appointed Mr. Clarence B. Moore a? a repre- 

 sentative of the Academy to serve on the General Committee of 

 x\rrangements for the International Congress of Americanists to be 

 held in New York next year. 



Messrs. Vaux, Nolan, Wistar, Roberts and Schaeffer have been 

 appointed a committee to consider and report on the subject of 

 memorial tablets to contain the names of benefactors of the Acad- 

 emy, and to be placed at the entrance to the Museum. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the past year, there have been received from ninety-five 

 societies, museums, libraries, etc., one hundred and sixty-three 

 acknowledgments of the publications of the Academy, and from 

 thirty-seven societies, libraries, etc., fifty-two notices of transmis- 

 sion of their publications. 



Fourteen applications for exchange of publications and for sup- 

 plies of deficiencies, together with six circulars and invitations for 

 the Academy to participate in congresses, etc., and five announce- 

 ments of the deaths of scientific men, have also been received. 



Four correspondents have been elected during the year, and 

 the deaths of six have been recoi'ded. 



Six letters on miscellaneous subjects have been received and 

 eleven written. 




752 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Seven hundred and one acknowledgments of gifts to the library 

 and museum and three diplomas to correspondents have been 

 mailed. 



Respectfully sabmitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



KEPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The growth of the Library, as far as the ordinary current acces- 

 sions are concerned, has been unprecedented during the past year. 

 A total of 6,184 additions have been received, classified and cata- 

 logued; 4,678 of these are pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 

 1,380 are complete volumes, 124 maps, and one photograph. 



Thev have been received from the following sources: 



Societies, .... 2,293 

 I. V. Williamson Fund, 1,309 



Editors, 861 



General Fund, .... 846 



Authors, 169 



U. S. Department of the 



Interior, 160 



Meigs Fund, . . . . 145 

 U. S. Department of Agri- 

 culture, 121 



Wilson Fund, .... 37 

 U. S. Department of State, 16 

 Special Exchange, . . 27 

 Geological Surv^ey of New 



Jersey, 11 



Ministere des Travaux 



Publics, France, 

 Albert I, Prince of Mo- 

 naco, 



Pennsylvania State Li- 

 brary, 



Royal Geographical Society, 

 London, 



11 



9 



Geological and Natural 

 History Survey of Can- 

 ada, .... 



Library of Congress, 



H. C. Chapman, . 



Thomas Meehan, . 



Henry G. Bryant, 



Comite Geologique Russe, 



Kommissiou zur wissen- 

 schaft lichen Untersuch- 

 ungen der deutschen 

 Meere in Kiel und der 

 Biologischen Anstalt 

 auf Helgoland, . 



Pauline L. Neidhard, 



Geological Survey of India, 



William J. Fox, . 



Department of ]\Iines 

 (Geological Survey), 

 Victoria, 



H. A. Pilsbry, . . . 



Biuroului Geologicu, Rou- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1901.] 



Maryland Geological Sur- 

 vey, 



Trustees of British Mu- 

 seum, 



Department of Mines, 

 New South Wales, . . 

 U. S. Treasury Depart- 

 ment, 



U. S. Commission of Fish 

 and Fisheries, . . . 

 Conch ological Section, 

 Academy, .... 

 Geological and Natural 

 History Survey, Min- 

 nesota, 



U. S. War Department . 

 U. S. Coast and Geodetic 



Survey, 



U. S, Board on Geograph- 

 ical Names, .... 

 Koyal Swedish Academy 

 of Sciences, .... 

 'sLands Plantentuin, Java, 

 Department of Mines, 

 Nova Scotia, .... 

 Bentham Trustees, Kew 



Gardens, 



Comission Geologica. Mex- 

 ico, 



Naturforschende Gesell- 



schaft, Basel (special). 



Academic des Science de 



Cracovie (special), 

 Trustees of Indian Mu- 

 seum, 



Botanical Survey of India, 

 Geological and Natural 

 History Survey, Wis- 

 consin, 



48 



75.3 



Mrs. Jonas Gilman Clark, 1 



Government of Uruguay, 1 



Geological Survey of 



Michigan, .... 1 



Commissioners of Inland 

 Fisheries and Game, 

 Massachusetts, ... 1 

 Department of Agricul- 

 ture, Cape of Good 



Hope, 1 



Samuel G. Dixon, . . 1 



Smithsonian Institution, . 1 



Financial Publishing Co., 



Philadelphia, ... 1 



Geological Survey of 



Georgia, 



Government of India, 

 R. Academia di Cien- 

 cias, etc., Barcelona, . 

 E. R. Sykes, .... 

 Council of the Fridtjof 

 Nansen Fund for the 

 Advancement of Sci- 

 ence, 1 



Geological Survey of Mis- 

 souri, 1 



Bergeu's Museum, ... 1 



A. W. Vogdes, ... 1 

 California State Mining 



Bureau, 1 



K. Akaderaie der Wissen- 



schaf ten, Wien (special), '^1 

 Department of Geology, 



etc., Indiana, ... 1 



W. N. Newton, ... 1 

 Illinois State Board of 



Labor, 1 



Messrs. Werner and Swasey, 1 




754 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Madras Government Mu- 

 seum, 1 



Home Secretary's Office, 

 Queensland, .... 1 



Hungarian Central Bureau 

 for Ornithology, , . 1 



Geological Survey of Iowa, 1 



Commission des Travaux 

 G^ologiqucs, Portugal, . 1 



Bernice Pauahi Bishop 

 Museum, 1 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Societe HoUandaisc des 

 Sciences (special), . 



Magyar Tudomanyos Aka- 

 demia (special), 



Royal Society of Denmark 

 (special), . . . . 



Geological Survey of Ala- 

 bama, 



Department of Marine 

 and Fisheries, Canada, 



They were distributed to the several departments of the library, 

 as follows: 



Fourteen hundred and seventy-two volumes have been bound, 

 making a noticeable improvement in the library, especially in the 

 department of periodicals. Only those who have been compelled 

 to consult unbound sets of journals, the numbers unavoidably mixed 

 and the indexes probably misplaced, can appreciate the comfort of 

 working with volumes bound to date. Large appropriations for 

 the work arc still required, nearly three thousand volumes in the 

 department of periodicals alone still requiring binding, but it is a 

 cause of sincere congratulation that they will now be handled as 

 rapidly as the necessary collation will permit. An important 

 addition to the cases has been provided in the central entresol 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 755 



room, relieving for the present the pressure on some of the more 

 crowded sectionvS of the periodicals. The growth of the library 

 in this department, as indeed in all the others, is likely to be so 

 rapid in the future, in view of the comparatively liberal appro- 

 priations which can now be made, that the question of additional 

 shelving and room for its accommodation will soon become a press- 

 ing one. Another important need is a case for the arrangement 

 and storage of maps, the necessity of which was brought to the 

 attention of the Academy as early as 1889. 



Among the more important accessions of the past year have been 

 a number of early sets of journals secured from the catalogues of 

 second-hand dealers. As the Academy has special reason to set 

 store by what is believed to be its well-nigh unequaled collection of 

 journals and transactions, it is desirable that desiderata be secured 

 as promptly as possible, as the opportunities of doing so are yearly 

 becoming fewer because of the very liberal means at the disposal 

 of many scientific libraries recently started and the vigor of their 

 administration. The Academy has had the advantage of being 

 early in the field, and, though having no means of its own for many 

 years, the devotion of William Maclure and Thomas B. Wilson 

 secured for it bibliographical treasures which can no longer be 

 bought. 



A list of the serials now received in exchange or subscribed for 

 is appended. 



The works on Philology have been selected from the Meigs 

 Library and from the department of Anthropology, and uow^ form 

 a separate section containing 296 volumes. 



The card catalogue is being carefully revised and certain un- 

 avoidable duplications and irregularities are being corrected. 



A portrait of the late Thomas Meehan, in oil, by James L. 

 Wood, was presented by Mr. Chai-les Roberts in May. While it 

 has distinct value as a work of art, it forms a most desirable 

 memorial of the senior Vice-President, whose recent death is 

 referred to elsewhere. 



Dr. John G. LeConte presented a crayon portrait of Mr. Charles 

 E. Smith, a benefactor whose death was announced last year. 

 The picture has been placed in the herbarium. 



The present extent of the library, determined by a careful 

 count, is as follows : 




756 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Journals 



Geology 



General Natural History . . . . 



Botany 



Voyages and Travels 



Anatomy and Physiology . . . . 



Entomology 



Anthropology , . . . 



Conchology 



Medicine 



Ornithology 



Encyclopedias, Dictionaries, 



etc , 



Physical Sciences 



Mineralogy 



Mathematics 



Bibliography 



Geography 



Agriculture 



23,007 

 3,039 

 2,860 

 2,429 

 1,870 

 1,719 

 1,207 

 1,120 

 1,073 

 903 

 863 



816 

 630 

 554 

 551 

 428 

 421 

 407 



Ichthyology 323 



Mammalogy 304 



Miscellaneous 299 



Philology 296 



Helniinthology 295 



Chemistry 275 



Herpetology 186 



Meigs Library (miscellane- 

 ous) 1,916 



Warner Library (miscellane- 

 ous) 128 



American Entomological So- 

 ciety Library (Entomologi- 

 cal Section) ■ 3,160 



Unbound pamphlets, 2524, 



forming volumes 170 



51,249 



In considering the growth of the library since the last enumera- 

 tion, it must be remembered that about 450 volumes, bibliographical 

 and non-scientific, have been, by direction of the Council and the 

 Library Committee, transferred to the Free Library, 



Many of the works in the library of the Entomological Section 

 (American Entomological Society) are duplicates, while those in 

 the James Aitken Meigs Library are foreign to the purposes of 

 the Academy, being retained under an agreement with the legatee. 



It may not be out of place, at the beginning of the new ceu- 

 tur}", to review briefly the history of the library, so as to deter- 

 mine with some degree of clearness what has been accomplished by 

 this department of the Academy during its ninety years of existence. 



It will be remembered that on the evening of January 25, 1812, 

 " a meeting of gentlemen, friends of science and of rational dis- 

 posal of leisui'e moments," was held to consider the advisability 

 o£ forming a scientific society. After mature deliberation it was 

 decided that such a society was desirable, and preliminary steps 

 were taken toward its organization. The men who met on that 

 occasion took themselves with entire seriousness, as is evidenced by 

 the dignified wording of the minutes and the care with which they 

 were kept by the fii-st Recording Secretary, Dr. Camillus McMahau 

 Mann. They evidently attached due importance to the formation 




1901.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 757 



of a library, for a committee consistiDg of Messrs. Troost and 

 Shiun was appointed to consider, among other weighty matters, 

 " which are the fittest periodical works to engage in the first in- 

 stance for the accommodation of the society." 



No report seems to have been received from this, the first Library 

 Committee, but under date of March 17 of the same year, a mem- 

 orandum records tliat " Mr. Shinn will accommodate the society 

 with the Mlneralogical Journal of Dr. Bruce ; Mr. Speakman 

 will furnish the National Intelligencer ; Dr. Parmentier, the Aurora 

 and a map of Switzerland; Dr. Mann, the Monthly Magazine for 

 1807. Drs. Troost and Parmentier have engaged for account of 

 the society the Annales de Chymie and the Annales des Arts et de 

 Commerce. Mr. Shinn is commissioned to procure for account of 

 the society the Archives of Useful Knoivledge of Dr. Mears, and 

 the Medical Museum of Drs. Mitchell and Millar. Agreed to pro- 

 cure the Repertory of Arts from London." 



On April 18, " the Secretary makes homage to the Academy of 

 The Bureau, weekly newspaper recently commenced, which he has 

 subscribed for. " A.t the same meeting it was "referred to the 

 Committee to purchase at least one portfolio, for the purpose of 

 depositing extracts from newspapers announcing recent discoveries 

 and extraordinary facts, with a view to have them afterward 

 arranged in a proper book and inquiries instituted thereupon." 

 The Secretary was requested " to procure a report of Prof. Davy 

 of the Loudon Institution's lectures lately delivered on the subject 

 of Zoology." He was also requested " to procure report on Prof. 

 Davy's experiments and conclusions on the subject of the oxymuri- 

 atic acid, and to require report from Dr. Mitchell at time of 

 writing to that gentleman his letter of notification." It was 

 ordered, Mr. Troost seeming to have dropped out, " that Mr. 

 Shinn be requested to make his report on the periodical works 

 eligible for the Academy, and if possible to procure the latest 

 number of Nicholson's Journal.'' 



Then more definitely, on August 15, the Secretary was " re- 

 quired to obtain the following works on science : Nicholson' s Journal 

 from the commencement of the year 1810; a periodical work said 

 to be conducted by Dr. Thompson, of London, from its com- 

 mencement; Repertory of Arts from the beginning of 1810; Mur- 

 ray's Chemistry, last edition; Thompson's Chemistry, edition of 




758 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



1810, if none since published; Davies' Elements of Chemistry; 

 Tilloch's Magazine from the beginning of 1810; best comparative 

 statement of the experiments relative to the oxymuriatic acid." 



These are the brief records concerning the library in the earliest 

 minutes of the Academy. It will be seen that they all relate to 

 intentions for the future, except in the one case where the Secre- 

 tary " makes homage" or presents The Bureau, a periodical for 

 which he had recently subscribed, and of this, curiously enough, 

 no record is to be found in the earliest published catalogue of the 

 library. The list of desiderata indicates how largely the first 

 members were concerned with physics and chemistry, subjects 

 which now receive little or no attention in the Academy. 



The growth of the library was slow until 1816, when Mr. 

 William Maclure, who was elected President the following year, 

 began his liberal donations, which in 1819 had reached nearly 

 1,500 volumes. A contemporary notice of the Academy says: 

 " The valfte of these acquisitions was enhanced by the fact that 

 they were possessed by no other institution on this side of the 

 Atlantic. The Academy, therefore, derived from this source a 

 prosperity and prominence which, under other circumstances, must 

 have been extremely slow and uncertain; while science at the 

 same time received an impulse which has never faltered and which 

 has been subsequently imparted to every section of our country." 

 Mr. Maclure transferred his library at New Harmony to the 

 Academy in 1834. Dr. Pickering, then Librarian, the following 

 year superintended the conveyance of the collection, embracing 

 2,259 volumes on science, literature and art, to the Academy. 



A catalogue of the library was begun in the first issue of the 

 Journal in 1817, and was completed in the fourth volume, pub- 

 lished in 1824. The collection then seems to have consisted of 

 1,675 volumes, embracing 672 titles. 



Another catalogue, published in 1836, gives the number of vol- 

 umes then in the library, excluding a collection of historical 

 documents, at 6,890, of which no less than 5,232' are thankfully 

 credited to Mr. Maclure. The classification was practically that 

 which is still maintained, but the collection embraced hundreds of 

 volumes on finance, law, morals, literature, religion, amusements, 

 military art and other subjects not at all pertinent to the Academy, 

 and which have long since been disposed of by sale or exchange. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 759 



In a note to Morton's biographical notice of William Maclure, 

 prepared in 1841, it is stated that the library then consisted of 

 7,000 volumes. 



At this time certain designated books were permitted to be bor- 

 rowed, but the Committee expresses grave doubt as to the advis- 

 ability of continuing the practice, as serious loss of works which 

 could not be replaced had been detected during the preparation of 

 the catalogue of 1836. It was strongly recommended, in harmony 

 with the desire of Mr. Maclure, that the library should be exclu- 

 sively for use within the building. It was considered, however, 

 that this was scarcely practicable until the services of a salaried 

 Librarian could be secured. 



In May, 1845, Dr. Thomas B. Wilson presented Owen's His- 

 tory of British Fossil Mammalia and Birds, and from that date 

 until bis death, March 15, 1865, more than 10,000 volumes in 

 all branches of natural history were received from this liberal 

 patron of the Academy. These formed the rarest and most expen- 

 sive portions of the library — complete sets of early transactions 

 and superbly illustrated monographs. Week after week the Wil- 

 son package was examined with delight, as it was sure to contain 

 not only contributions indispensable to the workers, but also gifts 

 of the highest artistic value, such as Gould's Monographs, Wolf .s 

 Zoological Sketches, Chenu's Illustrations Conchy liologiqties, Reich- 

 enbach's Xenia Orchidacea, Lindley and Moore's Ferns of Great 

 Britain, etc. Dr. Wilson's earlier contributions were placed with 

 the society on deposit, but were given outright in 1850 on condi- 

 tion that they should not be removed from the building, a rule 

 which was then extended to the entire library. 



Dr. Thomas B. Wilson was not the only member of his family 

 who took an active interest in the Academy. Between the years 

 1850 and 1857 his brother, Mr. Edward Wilson, residing in 

 England, presented to the society 4,184 rare volumes and pam- 

 phlets of the last century, and after Dr. Wilson's death a valuable 

 selection from his library was received from another brother, Mr. 

 Rathmell Wilson. Nor did the benefit derived by the Academy 

 from the liberality of Dr. Wilson cease at his death. He be- 

 queathed to the society §10,000, directing that S300 of the annual 

 income should be contributed toward the payment of the salary of 

 the Librarian, the balance to be expended for the continuation of his 




"60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. y 



subscriptions and for the purchase and binding of kindred books. 

 By means of this fund the Academy has been enabled from time to 

 time to add to the library many costly monographs which, until 

 quite recently, it would otherwise have been unable to procure. 



In 1850 the collection had increased to 12,057 volumes. 



Apart from these gifts and olhers from friends of the society, 

 the growth of the library had depended on a system of exchange 

 with other scientific societies, begun in 1817 when the Journal of 

 the Academy was first issued. This important source of supply 

 has since been maintained, with the result of securing the earliest 

 information regarding original research from all parts of the world. 

 Very inadequate sums for the purchase of books were secured 

 from time to time by subscriptions or sales of material not germane 

 to the Academy. The historical documents received from Mr. 

 Maclure were sold to the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in 

 1861 for $500. This was known as the Maclure Fund. A mo- 

 tion to invest the amount and expend the interest only was voted 

 down and the entire sum was placed at the disposal of the Library 

 Committee for the purchase of books. 



The Conarroe Fund was a small amount arising from the sale of 

 books presented by George M. Conarroe. Sums of money for 

 special needs were frequently contributed by Mr. Joseph Jeanes and 

 a Library Fund was started in 1860, to which twenty-seven sub- 

 scribers contributed $25 each annually until 1868. Some dupli- 

 cates were sold in 1870 for SlOO, and others were exchanged for a 

 copy of Elliott's Birds of North America. 



These were all helps, but a permanent endowment was sadly 

 needed, for the income from the Wilson Bequest, after the sum 

 toward the salary of the Librarian had been deducted, did not 

 always yield a sufficient balance to pay the subscriptions. It can 

 therefore be readily understood with what joy Mr. Isaiah V. 

 Williamson's gift in 1875 of S25,000 in ground rents was re- 

 ceived. The income only was to be expended on the purchase of 

 scientific books, and the I. V. Williamson Fund, inaugurating a 

 period of prosperity up to that time unknown, continues to yield 

 an important part of the resources at the disposal of the Library 

 Committee. 



In 1882 eighteen hundred and ninety-seven volumes — 1,272 on 

 religion, history, politics, general literature, 422 duplicates and 201 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 761 



on fine arts and architecture — were sold for $1,825.14 By an ar- 

 rangement with Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., one-half this sum was 

 devoted to the Conchological Section, and the other was appro- 

 priated for binding. 



The Warner Library, consisting of 1,045 volumes and 1,200 

 pamphlets, mostly on mathematics, came into the possession of the 

 society in 1892, on the coming of age of Mr. Warner's daughter 

 and heiress. 



The library of James Aitken Meigs, consisting of 5,089 

 volumes, 1,916 of which were on other than scientific subjects, was 

 bequeathed to the Academy by his father, John G. Meigs, who 

 also left to the society $20,000, one-half for the exclusive use of 

 the library. Before his death Mr. Meigs intimated his desire 

 that even the volumes not pertinent to the Academy should be 

 kept together as the James Aitken Meigs Library, and this desire 

 has been so far complied with. 



The first catalogue of the library was published, it will be 

 remembered, at irregular intervals in the first four volumes of the 

 Journal from 1817 to 1824. , ]Nb classification is indicated in this 

 list. The carefully compiled catalogue of 1836 is divided into broad 

 subject sections. Dr. Fisher reports the beginning of a new cata- 

 logue in 1859, but the intention, it would appear, was not carried 

 out. The catalogues then in use were manuscript hand-lists, 

 arranged alphabetically for each separate department. They were 

 not kept strictly up to date. They were added to and copied by a 

 special clerical assistant in 1863 and 1864, and were again tran- 

 scribed in 1878. They remained in use until 1885, when they 

 were finally replaced by a card catalogue which, in a very crude 

 form, had been begun in 1874 and completed in 1880. The num- 

 bering of the library was begun with the Conchological Department 

 in 1869, and gradually extended, as a matter of convenience, to 

 the other sections of the library in connection with the prepara- 

 tion of the card catalogue. Shelf lists of the several departments, 

 indispensable for the proper placing of the books and in accounting 

 for missing volumes, were also prepared. 



From 1883 to 1894 much-needed clerical assistance was secured 

 in a more or less intermittent way. The expenses were defrayed 

 by subscriptions secured by Mrs. Annis Lea Wister and Dr. 

 Henry M, Fisher. The old card catalogue was transcribed on 




762 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



regulation library cards, arranged in drawers in three sections 

 devoted to authors, subjects and periodicals. It was begun in 

 1885, is the basis of the catalogue now in use and meets measur- 

 ably the requirements of modern library administration. The 

 clerk also did much good work in the endeavor to secure supplies of 

 deficiencies from corresponding societies. 



Mr. William J. Fox was appointed messenger March 26, 1888. 

 Proving himself intelligent and trustworthy in the performance 

 of such work as was assigned him, he was promoted to the position 

 of Assistant Librarian in 1890, and has since been efficient iu 

 forwarding the interests of the Academy. 



To provide for the supposed wants of students the experiment 

 of keeping the library open until 10 P.M. was begun in 1873 and 

 continued until 1876, when it was abandoned as not serving any 

 useful end on account of the extremely limited number of members 

 using the books in the evening. 



A catalogue of duplicates was printed and distributed in 1899. 

 A number of sales have been effected, but the larger part of the 

 collection remains yet on hand. 



Up to 1847 the library had been arranged in connection with 

 the Museum, manifestly to the great discomfort of students who, 

 as Dr. Zantzinger says in his report for that year, were excluded 

 from the hall when it was open to the public. The society then 

 occupied the building at the corner of Broad and Sansora streets 

 (Plate C), into which it had moved from Twelfth and Sansom streets 

 (Plate B) seven years before. During the year mentioned the books 

 were arranged in a department expressly designed as a library 

 and meeting room at the western end of the ground floor. The 

 Librarian was then required to be on duty during part of the fore- 

 noon, his place being supplied in the afternoon by the Chairman 

 of the Curators. The eastern hall, in which the collections of 

 minerals and fossils had been arranged, was given up to the Library 

 in 1855, and was used from 1857 as a meeting room. Finally the 

 western section, formerly used for this purpose, was divided in 

 two by a partition of cases erected from time to time by the liber- 

 ality of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, thus providing on the floor and 

 gaUery additional room and placing the library in the condition 

 in which it remained until removal to the present building in 1876. 

 The present system of alternating alcoves and study rooms with the 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 763 



spacious gallery above for the arrangement of periodicals is well 

 known to all now using the library. 



The accompanying plates, D, E and F, illustrate the ground-plaa 

 of the building vacated in 1876 and the present distribution and 

 aspect of the library. 



The first Librarian was John Speakmau, who was elected Novem. 

 ber 29, 1814, and served until December 26, 1815, when he was 

 succeeded in rapid succession by Caleb Richardson, Jacob Pierce, 

 S. W. Conrad, Charles Pickering, Paul Beck Goddard, Joseph 

 Carson, Robert Bridges, Alfred L. Elwyn, Joseph Leidy, and 

 William S. Zantziuger. Several of these served only one or two 

 years. Dr. Zantzinger alone reaching an incumbency of ten years. 

 Then came Dr. James Aitken Meigs, from August, 1856, to May, 

 1859, and Dr. James C. Fisher, from June 28, 1859, to August 

 27, 1861, when he entered the army as contract surgeon and was 

 succeeded by Dr. R. E. Griffith, who served only one year. 



It was becoming hard to find any one who was willing to take the 

 office. There were certain duties which manifestly had to be per- 

 formed. As exchanges came in and the Wilson packages were 

 delivered, the accessions, must be shelved and recorded, even 

 though they were not systematically catalogued, and some few, 

 from time to time, had to be prepared for the binder. Dr. Robert 

 Bridges devoted much time at irregular intervals to the latter duty, 

 although not officially. He deserves, also, the grateful remem- 

 brance of the Academy for his supervision, in connection with Mr. 

 William S. Vaux, of the distribution of the Proceedings and Jour- 

 nal to subscribers and exchanges, the editorial work being per- 

 formed by Dr. Joseph Leidy, then and until his death, Chairman 

 of the Publication Committee. 



Mr. J. Dickinson Sergeant was finally prevailed on to take the 

 Librarianship, but only on condition that an assistant should be 

 engaged to perform the routine duties of the office. The financial 

 resources of the Academy were not such as to permit the engage- 

 ment of a trained bibliographer, and a boy was employed who 

 owed his selection to the good offices of Mr. John Cassin. The 

 Assistant's first record of accessions was made February 4, 1862, 

 within a few days of the beginning of the second half century of 

 the society's history. 




764 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Mr. Sergeant held the Librarianship until December, 1867, 

 when the Assistant, who had in the meantime taken a degree from 

 the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania, under 

 the preceptorship of the" beloved Leidy, was appointed to the 

 ofBce which he has held continuously ever since. If the situation 

 be unchanged, therefore, in February of next year, he will have 

 had the supervision of the Academy's Library, in conjunction with 

 the Library Committee, as Assistant and Librarian for forty years. 

 He begs to be allowed,' on this occasion, to put on record his obliga- 

 tion to his first and only chief, J. Dickinson Sergeant, for the 

 kindly forbearance, helpful council and unfailing courtesy and 

 encouragement which filled the life of the boy with interest and 

 gladness and turned the daily task which, under an unsympathetic 

 master, might well have been irksome enough, into a labor of 

 love. Dr. Leidy, also, was invariably helpful and encouragiug, 

 and the Librarian is unceasingly thankful thai early in his life it 

 was given to him to know, and in a measure to appreciate, the high 

 ideals embodied in those two men. 



A like acknowledgment of obligation is, in a measure, due to 

 nearly every one with whom he has been brought into asso- 

 ciation during his forty years of service in the Academy. Only 

 the most cordial associations are called up by the names of Lea, 

 Wilson, Bridges, Hays, LeConte, Slack, Cassin, Tryon, Vaux, 

 Jeanes, Allen, Horn, Redfield and Meehan, not to mention the 

 dear friends who are still met with every day, to all of whom he 

 is indebted for kindliness, courtesy, and forbearance. His paths 

 have been made by them paths of pleasantness. 



The Librarian hopes that he may be forgiven these personalities. 

 It can be safely asserted that he will not have an opportunity, 

 after an additional equal term of service, to record his obligation 

 to his associates living and dead. 



The statistics presented above show that the Academy possesses, 

 including all the books in the building, except duplicates set apart 

 for sale, a library of over 50,000 volumes. Their arrangement 

 is practically what the present Librarian inherited from his prede- 

 cessors in 1862. It is far from meeting the requirements of 

 modern library classification, but in practice it has been found to 

 be not far short of what is wanted by the worker. Books as they 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 765 



are received are placed under their respective headings, for the 

 most part consecutively, a separate running number being used iu 

 each department. The subject catalogue in a measure supplies 

 the needs of a more philosophic arrangement, and it is easy to 

 make a memorandum of the position of books on a giv^en subject. 

 Still, the adoption of the decimal system of arrangement would 

 be, in some respects, desirable ; but reclassification and recata- 

 loguiug will involve great inconvenience and a heavy expense, as 

 the employment of a corps of trained assistants will be unavoid- 

 able. It may be that some one interested in the welfare of the 

 library will volunteer to defray the cost of making such a change 

 in the prompt way which would involve the least discomfort, or the 

 Academy in the future may find itself in a position to make the 

 required appropriations. Until that time arrives it is a satisfac- 

 tion to know that few or no complaints are heard from the earnest 

 workers who use the library in yearly increasing numbers, and 

 who are intelligently informed as to what they desire in the prose- 

 cution of their work of original research. 



The statistics of work and growth for the year are sufficient 

 evidence that this department is actively benefitted by the improved 

 financial condition of the Academy. Every book added to the 

 shelves as the result of the judicious administration of its resources 

 is a memorial of the liberal and enlightened men who have selected 

 the Academy as their agent iu the advancement of science. 



Mr. William J. Fox has continued to render intelligent and 

 willing assistance to the Librarian, and also in many important 

 ways to "the Recording Secretary. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, 



lAbrarian. 




766 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators are able to report many iraprovemenis in the 

 museum and buildings of the Academy during the past year, as 

 wcill as important advances in the arrangement and growth of the 

 collections. 



In the early part of the year, through the increased funds at their 

 disposal, the services of Dr. Henry Skinner and Mr. E. G. 

 Vanatta were secured as Assistants ; Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry was 

 appointed Special Curator of Mollusca, while Mr. Henry W. 

 Fowler has been employed identifying, arranging and caring for 

 the collection of fishes. 



With these additions the salaried staff of the Academy is now 

 greater than ever before, and the work accomplished ■ during the 

 year has been correspondingly increased. 



During the summer the outside woodwork of the buildings, 

 which has been for some time badly in need of attention, has been 

 entirely repainted, and necessary repairs have been made to the 

 roofs. 



A number of cases have been erected for the extension of the 

 library and for the accommodation of additions to the herbarium 

 and the study collection of mollusks, while eighteen moth-proof 

 tin cases have been purchased for the study series of birds and 

 mammals, in addition lo five large wooden ones uniform with those 

 provided last year. 



In the museum seven plate glass cases have been constructed 

 from the general appropriations and the income of the " Mary 

 Jeanes Museum Fund." Three of these are of large size, two for 

 birds and one for mammals, and cover collectively over six hun- 

 dred square feet of floor space. Two other cases hiive been pre- 

 sented by Mr. Clarence B. Moore, uniform with those already 

 installed, to accommodate the accessions to the " Moore Archaeo- 

 logical Collection." The large slab of fossil ferns presented by 

 Mr. C. B. Nichols has also been enclosed in glass. 



The opening of the museum on Sunday afternoons has been con- 

 tinued throughout the year, to the gratification of large numbers 

 of persons who are unable to visit it on weekdays. 



During the past summer the Academy has for the first time 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 767 



maintained a table at the Wood's Hole Biolot^ical Laboratory. 

 It was occupied through the season by Mr. H. W. Fowler. 



Much of the work accomplished during the past year in the 

 arrangement of the collections is described in detail in the reports 

 of the Botanical, Conchological, Ornithological and Mineralogical 

 Sections which follow, while the more important work of other 

 departments is briefly outlined below. 



Mr. Stone has spent the greater part of the spi'ing and summer 

 in the arrangement of the reptiles and batrachians, with the result 

 that all the groups uot handled last year have been catalogued and 

 systematically arranged and many unidentified specimens named. 



Mr. Fowler has continued his study of, and completely rearranged 

 and relabeled the carp-like and deep-sea fishes, the eels and their 

 allies, and the Cypriuodonts, comprising about two-fifths of the 

 entire collection. 



During the year the whole series of alcoholic vertebrates have 

 been carefully examined and the alcohol replenished. 



The mammalian skeletons and skulls have all been relabelled 

 wil h special tags and a systematic card catalogue of all the mammal 

 collections, has been prepared by Mr. Reha. 



In the Archaeological department Miss H. N. Wardle has cata- 

 logued and arranged a large number of specimens, including most 

 of the Haldeman Collection, 



Through the generosity of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, Mr. C. W. 

 Johnson has continued his care of the Isaac Lea Collection of 

 Eocene Mollusca. Six hundred and fifteen species have been 

 added during the year, mainly through exchange. 



Many important additions to the collections have been received 

 since the preparation of the last report. The Zoological Society of 

 Philadelphia has presented a number of specimens, one of the 

 most notable being a full-grown Indian Rhinoceros, which has been 

 mounted by Mr. David McCadden, the taxidermist. 



Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, has continued to add most liberally 

 to ihe conchological collection, furnishing many rare and hitherto 

 unknown species. Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown has added largely to 

 the department of reptiles, while a fine series of Porto Rican fishes 

 was received from the United States Fish Commission. 



Dr. A. Donaldson Smith presented a number of valuable birds, 

 mammals and mollusks secured during his recent expedition to Lake 




768 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Rudolf, Africa. Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. 

 Hiller, who are at present conducting an expedition in the interior 

 of Sumatra, have generously promised to the Academy such of 

 their collections as are pertinent to its work, a portion of the 

 material having been already shipped. 



The Curators would express the indebtedness of the Academy to 

 the late Thomas Meehan, Dr. P. P. Calvert, Theodore D. Raud, 

 Lewis Woolman, Charles Liebeck and other members for aid in 

 various departments, as well as to the students of the Jessup Fund, 

 Miss H. N. Wardle, Edward G. Vanatta, James A. G. Rehn and 

 H, L. Viereck. 



Besides the frequent consultation of the collections by visiting 

 naturalists, specimens have been loaned for study to C. D. Beadle, 

 E. L. Morris, W. B. Scott, G. S. Miller, Jr., M. J. Rathburn, 



C. H. Ball, W. B. Clark, W. D. Matthew, B. L. Robinson, E. 



D. Merrill, J. W. Gidley, G. C. Martin, H. M. Smith, R. Ridg- 

 way, M. W. Lyon, Jr., J. Dwight, Jr., O. P. Hay, R. Bowdler 

 Sharpe, R. Arnold, R. H. Howe, Jr., E. A. Mearns, A. W. 

 Evans, B. G. Wilder, D. G. Elliott and Alpheus Hyatt. 



Henry C. Chapman, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Arthur E. Brown, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, 



Curators. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections would respect- 

 fully report that the specimens added have been fewer than in 

 prior years, but have been unusually fine. Among them may'be 

 particularly mentioned a crystallized native copper from Lake Su- 

 perior ; five tourmalines, including an unusually fine achroite, two 

 showing cat's-eye reflections ; an excellent green tourmaline and 

 rubellite, and a very remarkable opal from Australia. 



Much interest has been manifested in the collections by the 

 visitors to the museum. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theodore D. Rand, 



Curator. 




H 

 I 

 m 



> 



o 

 > 



D 



m 



< 



O 



Tl 



z 

 > 



H 

 C 



> 



r 



CO 



O 







> 5 ^ ? H 

 z -I I S I 



< I ? H < 



• ° o o o 

 0580 



o o 

 o 5 





BROAD ST. 





•133yiS H1N3313N1N 



gssssg 



« » 5i^ < V 



HOC- O^Zp 



>0>? Ocio- TTT 



" - S 

 c o "" 



"5? 



C) O I > o < 



J 2 Z I = O 5 

 i; o O I 



2<o2 H<OmO 



cm 



J [ 



1. 1 I I 

 3 D 



L=J I M ¥ 







1901.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 769 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



The Section has held the usual meetings during the year with 

 increased membership. It has lost by death a valued member, 

 Mr. David S. Holman. 



The Conservator reports that the apparatus and slides belonging 

 to the Section are in fair condition, and some progress has been 

 made in cataloguing the latter. 



Additions during the year include thirty-six slides of wood sec- 

 tions purchased and twenty-six volumes, principally of microscopi- 

 cal journals, presented by Mr. Jo';n C, AVilson. 



At a joint meeting with the Biological Society of the Univer- 

 sity of Pennsylvania, the latter was represented by Prof. Conkliu, 

 who spoke upon " Fertilization and Inheritance," and the Section 

 by Mr. Frank J. Keeley, who gave a history of the " Develop- 

 ment of the American Microscope." Dr. Morris also spoke upon 

 the " Theory of Vibration." 



Communications have been made by Mr. Palmer on Spirogyra 

 and desmids; by Mr. Keeley on rock-inclusions, various appliances 

 of the microscope, and the Abbe diffraction theory; by Mr. Wool- 

 man on artesian well deposits, by Mr Boyer on diatoms; by Dr. 

 Stewart on white blood corpuscles and bacteria, and by Dr. Morris 

 on pathology. 



At the meetings with the Academy Dr. Benjamin Sharp spoke 

 upon the " Food of the Cod;" Dr. Pilsbry on the " Relationships 

 of the Genus Neobeliscus ;" Mr. Keeley on the "Structure of 

 Diatoms" and "Colored Illumination," and Drs. Ravenel and 

 McCarthy on the ' ' Pathology and Treatment of Rabies. ' ' 



The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 



Director, .... J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



Vice- Director, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator^ . 

 Corresponding Secretarn, . 

 Recorder, 



49 



T. Chalkley Palmer. 

 Lewis Woolman. 

 Frank J. Keeley. 

 Silas L. Schumo. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 




770 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The growth of the collection of mollusks during the year has 

 been satisfactory. The total number of accessions, 2,705, although 

 less than in several years, comprises a large amount of material 

 preserved in alcohol aud also more species new to the collection 

 than has'e been added in any year since the A. D. Brown Collec- 

 tion was received. 



The chief accessions are as follows: Over 800 species of Japanese 

 mollusks received from Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan; a large 

 lot of South Sea shells collected by C. D. Voy in 1872-3, and 

 presented by Mrs. Annie P. Cope; a small series of shells from 

 Hawaii and Torres Strait, sent to our Treasurer, Mr. Roberts, by 

 Mr. D. Thaanum, consisting largely of species new to the collec- 

 tion, aud a second collection from British East Africa from Dr. 

 A. Donaldson Smith. The series of American mollusks has been 

 increased by about 200 species from the Galapagos and Cocos 

 Islands, collected by an expedition from Leland Stanford, Jr. 

 University; a selected series from the Gulf of California from 

 Mr. J. G. Malone, and a small series of C. B. Adams' Panama 

 shells; while Messrs. E. H. Ashmun, A. C. Billups, G. H. Clapp, 

 T. D. A. Cockerell, M. J. Elrod, J. H. Ferriss, Dr. Henry 

 Skinuer, Bi-yant Walker, aud many others have added valuable 

 material to the collection of United States mollusks, both dry and 

 in alcohol. A portion of this material has been worked up by Mr. 

 Vanatta and the Conservator in special papers. 



The Academy purchased 328 species of air-breathing proso- 

 branch snails new to the collection. Progress has been made in the 

 rearrangemcmt of the Pelecypoda and the alcoholic collection. 

 The remainder of the Bulimulid(z and the geuus Cerion have been 

 revised in the progress of monographs of these groups. 



The officers elected at the annual meeting, held December 5, 

 1901, are as follows: 



Director, ..... Uselma C. Smith. 



Vice- Director, 

 Recorder and Librarian, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



John Ford. 

 Edward J. Nolan. 

 Charles W. Johnson. 

 S. Raymond Roberts. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 771 



The continued assistance of Mr. E. G. Vanatta has largely 

 increased the work accomplished in the department. Advice and 

 assistance have also been rendered by Mr. C. W. Johnson and 

 other members of the Museum Committee. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Conservator. 



KEPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The usual meetings liave been held and entomological communi- 

 cations of interest and scientific value have been made by members 

 and associates. The attendance has been good, the average being 

 fourteen persons. 



Seven associates have been elected during the year. 



The Entomological News and Froeeedings of the Entomological 

 Section of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has 

 been continued with increased success. During the year the 

 twelfth volume has been completed with three hundred and 

 twenty-eight pages and thirteen plates. 



The Section has had a very eventful year, due to the large and 

 valuable additions of specimens to the collections of the depart- 

 ment. Two representative collections of Hymenoptera have been 

 presented: the Cresson Collection and the collection of Gallflies 

 made by INIr. Homer F. Bassett, of Waterbury, Conn. The 

 former collection contains 2,867 types and 3,511 species and the 

 number of specimens is estimated at 87,775. The Bassett Collec- 

 tion contains 315 boxes, estimated to contain 6,300 specimens and 

 over 300 types. The collection of Orthoptera made and presented 

 to the Section by Mr. J. A. G. Rehu numbers 1,653 specimens. 

 In addition the Academy has purchased 3,500 specimens. These 

 collections, in conjunction with the material already in the posses- 

 sion of the Section, form the best museum collection of these 

 insects in America. The Conservator has added over a thousand 

 specimens collected in San Miguel county, N. M., during the 

 summer. About forty species of these are new to science, and 

 many are new to the collection. The specimens added to the cab- 

 inets during the year will number nearly 104,000. 




772 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



The collections are in a good state of preservation, but additional 

 cases are needed and more space for the department is desirable. 



At the annual meeting, held December 26, the following were 

 elected to serve as officers for the year 1902: 



Director, 



Vice- Director, 



Treasurer, . 



Recorder and Conservator, 



Secretary, 



Publication Committee, . 



Philip Laurent. 

 H. W. Wenzel. 

 E. T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 C. W' Johnson. 

 J. H. Ridings, 

 C. W. Johnson. 



Henry Skinner, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Botanical Section reports that the herbarium is in a gener- 

 ally satisfactory condition. Much progress has been made in the 

 work of arrangement during the year. 



About 5,500 specimens have been added to the collections, 

 largely through purchase, the most important being a portion of 

 the collections of Mr. A. A. Heller, from Virginia, North Caro- 

 lina, Texas, Arizona, Wyoming, Idaho, Washington, Oregon and 

 California, numbering twenty-five hundred specimens and contain- 

 ing about 250 types, cotypes and authentic specimens, with many 

 from original tyj^e localities. These will add very materially to 

 the North American series of plants. 



Other purchases have been 129 specimens of Porto Rican plants 

 from A. A. Heller, 190 specimens of Mexican plants from C. G. 

 Pringle, 776 specimens of Canary Island plants from Dr. Theo- 

 dore Bornmuller, and 250 specimens of West Australian plants 

 from Dr. Pritzei. 



Donations numbering about 2,000 specimens have been received 

 from Col. C. A. H. McCauley, William M. Canby, Benjamin H. 

 Smith, Uselma C. Smith, C. F. Saunders, Witmer Stone, E. G. 

 Vanatta and Stewardson Brown. 



The mountinsr of the general herbarium was completed in Septem- 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 773 



ber, largely through the untiring efforts of the late Mr. Meehan, it 

 having been his expressed desire to see this work accomplished dur- 

 ing his life, and strangely enough it was practically the last work 

 he was able to do in the herbarium. 



In the early part of the present year the Curators had con- 

 structed eleven additional cases in the north room, which has 

 enabled the Conservator to rearrange all the specimens of the 

 Anthophyta in the two rooms on the library floor, the Pteridophyta 

 being arranged for the present in the south room on the gallery 

 floor. 



All of the cases have been marked on the outside with printed 

 labels, in brass holders with transparent fronts, greatly facilitating 

 the reference to specimens. 



The mounting of the Charles E. Smith Herbarium was com- 

 pleted during the year, the local material being arranged in one of 

 the cases in the south room on the gallery floor ; the balance of the 

 specimens will be incorporated with tlie general collections during 

 the coming year. 



During the year much work has been accomplished on the C. 

 W. Short Herbarium, about ten thousand sheets having been 

 mounted, all of which will be incorporated with the general collec- 

 tions as rapidly as possible. It is the desire of the Conservator to 

 push this w^ork during the coming year, so that the many valuable 

 specimens contained in this collection may be made available for 

 study at as early a date as possible. 



At the meeting of the Botanical Section, held on Monday, De- 

 cember 9, 1901, the following were elected as the ofiicers to serve 

 for the coming year : 



Director, ..... Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice- Director, . 



Corresponding Secretary, . 



Recorder, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



Joseph Crawford. 

 John T. Pennypacker. 

 John W. Harshberger, 

 Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 



Coiiservator, 




774 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOG- 

 ICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section respect- 

 fully reports that nine meetings have been held during the year, 

 besides six excursions to points of geological or mineralogical 

 interest. The average attendance at the meetings has been eight 

 members, on the excursions thirty-two. 



Additions to the Academy's collection of mineral and geological 

 specimens include many of interest, though in number not as 

 great as in previous years. 



An elaborate paper was read before the Section by Mr. John S. 

 Ash on the Buckingham Fault, which elicited considerable discus- 

 sion, participated in by Messrs. Lyman, Woolman and others. 

 There were read also other papers on Arizona lignite, New Jersey 

 gravels, and on various questions relating to the geology of Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley exhibited a number of rock sections pre- 

 pared by himself, and made remarks upon them, particularly upon 

 their inclusions. 



The first excursion was made to Langhorne and vicinity, for the 

 examination of the New Red Rocks in that neighborhood, and to 

 Van Artsdalen's quarry ; the second and third to the vicinity of 

 Yardley and New Hope, the fourth to Lodel creek, near Grater's 

 ford on the Perkiomen, and to Skippack creek. At Lodel creek 

 a slab was obtained showing ripple marks and reptilian and 

 amphibian footprints. The fifth was to West Chester, where the 

 cabinet of Mr. W. W. Jefferis was inspected and also Mr. Sharp- 

 less' collection of Indian relics, after which a number of localities 

 in Ihe vicinity were visited. The sixth excursion was to the fossil 

 beds in the Mattewan and other formations in the vicinity of 

 Swedesboro and Mullica Hill. 



The following officers of the Section for the ensuing year were 

 elected : 



Director, ..... Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 

 Recorder, 



Benjamin Smith Lyman. 

 Emma Walter. 

 F. J. Keeley. 

 Charles Schiiffer. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Theodore D. Rand, Director. 




1901.] NATUKAJ, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 775 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Duriug the past year a large part of the Conservator's time has 

 been occupied by his (kities as assistant to the Curators in other 

 departments. It has, however, been possible to make considerable 

 progress in the rearrangement of the ornithological collections. 

 All of the mounted water bu'ds, with the exception of the Anatidcz 

 and Laridw, have been carefully examined by the taxidermist, 

 relabeled with both common and technical names, and installed on 

 the ornithological floor of the new building. They completely fill 

 the large case erected last year, and show to much better advan- 

 tage than they did in the old gallery. During the close of the 

 present year three additional cases have been furnished by the 

 Curators, which it is estimated will accommodate about one-third 

 of the entire mounted collection. Labels for most of the remain- 

 ing water birds have ah-eady been prepared, and it is expected all 

 the new cases will be filled and the new floor opened to the public 

 in the spring. 



For the study collection eighteen moth-proof cans and three 

 large wooden cases have been purchased, permitting the abandon- 

 ment of almost all of the temporary storage boxes that we were 

 forced to make use of some years ago. With a similar provision 

 next year the entire collection of bird skins will be accommodated 

 in modern cases and rendered absolutely safe from moths and dust. 

 Considerable time has been required to effect the systematic arrange- 

 ment of the skins in the new cases, but as a result they are now 

 more accessible than ever before. The Mcllhenny collection of 

 Alaskan birds, which was formally acquired early in the year, has 

 been incorporated with the general collection, as also a valuable 

 local collection of water birds, the gift of Mr. H. W. Fowler. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings in the build- 

 ing and have done a great deal to stimulate the study of birds at 

 the Academy. Much aid has been rendered during the year to 

 ornithologists in other institutions, both by correspondence and by 

 loan of specimens, and many visiting naturalists have made use of 

 the collections. 



Among other important additions to the department may be 

 mentioned a series of birds from Lake Rudolf, Africa, from Dr. 




776 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Dec, 



A. Donaldson Smith; a series of several hundred skulls and sterna 

 of American birds from H. W. Fowler and Witraer Stone, and a 

 valuable collection of nests and eggs from Robert T. Young. At 

 the annual meeting, held December 18, 1901, the following officers 

 were chosen: 



Director, ..... Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice- Director, . 



Secretary, 



Recorder, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



George Spencer jNIorris. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Wither Stone, 

 Conservator. 



The election of Officers, Councilors and Members of the Com- 

 mittee on Accounts to serve during 1902 was held with the follow- 

 ing result: 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, .... 



Councilors to serve three years. 



Committee on Accounts, . 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 

 George Vaux, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Henry C. Chapman,M. D. , 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, jNI.D. , 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 

 Uselma C. Smith, 

 Charles Roberts, 

 John Cadwaladf^r, 

 AVilliam Sellers. 

 Uselma C. Smith, 

 Charles JMorris, 

 William L. Baily, 

 Harold Wingate, 

 Lewis Woolman. 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



n I 



COUNCIL FOR 1902. 



Ex-officlo. — Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., Arthur Erwin Browu, 

 Edwin G. Couklin, Ph.D., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy 

 Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry C. 

 Chapman, M.D. 



To serve Three Years. — Charles Roberts, Uselma C. Smith, 

 John Cadwalader, William Sellers. 



To serve Two Fear^. —Charles Schaeffer, M.D., Dr. C. Newlin 

 Pierce, Theodore D. Rand, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



To serve One Year. — Thomas A. Robinson, Charles H. Cramp, 

 Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar. 



Curator of Mollusca, 

 Assistant Librarian, 

 Assistants to the Curators, 



Taxidermist, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



William J. Fox. 



Witmer Stone, 



Henry Skinner, M.D. , 



Stewardson Brown, 



J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Edward G, Vanatta, 



Charles W. Johnson. 



David McCadden. 



Jes.mp Fund Students, 



J. A. G. Rehn, ^^ 

 H. L. Viereck, 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Harriet Newell Wardel, 



Janitors, 



Charles Clappier, 

 John Mcllhenny, 

 Daniel Heckler. 




778 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



ELECTIONS DURING 1901. 



MEMBERS. 



January 29. — William F. Dreer, James Rorer, A. Worrell 

 Wagner. 



February 26. — C. Hartmau Kuhn. 



March 26.— F. S. Manderson. 



Ap7-il SO. — Anthony W. Robinson. 



May ^.5.— Adolph Fredholm, Ph.D. 



June 26. — Henry Kraemer. 



October 29. — Howard Crawley, Henry Fox, Jr. 



November 26. — Roswell C. Williams, Henry Savage, William 

 B. Davis and S. Harbert Hamilton. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



Janary 29. — H. R. H. Albert I, Sovereign Prince of Monaco. 

 March 26. — Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan; Carlos de la Torre, of 

 Havana, Cuba. 



August 27. — Sir Thomas Lauder Brunton, of London, England. 

 November 26. — T. D. A. Cockerell, of East Las Vegas, N.M. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 779 



xVDDITIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Mammals. 



Otto Behr. Pine Marten, Mustela americana ; four Weasels, Putorius 

 noveboracensis ; Rabbit, Lepus floridanus transiiionalis ; Red-backed 

 Mouse, Evotoinys gapj^eri; skins and skulls ; and Brewer's Mole, Parasca- 

 lops breioeri ; Short-tailed Shrew, Blarina brevicanda ; White-footed 

 Mouse, Peromyscus canadensis ; House Mouse, Mus muscidus, and four 

 Weasels, Putorius noveboracensis, alcoholic ; all from Wyoming county. Pa. 



Stewardsox Browx. Red Bat, Lasiurus borealis, Philadelphia. 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D. Foetus of Felis domestica, Bus scrofa, Dasy- 

 pus sexcinctus. Monkey sp., and placenta of Oryx. 



William E. Hughes, M.D. Collection of twenty-one mammal skins 

 and skulls from Chihuahua, Mex. 



Charles D. Kellogg. Mongoose, Ilerpestes griscus, skin and skull. 



Purchased. Collection of skins and skulls of mammals from Texas and 

 Colorado ; skull of Black Bear, Ursus americanus, from Clinton county, 

 Pa., and Virginia Deer, Odocoileus virginianus, male (for mounting), 

 Wyoming county. Pa.; Florida Manatee, TricJiicJius latirostris, skeleton. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Five skins and skulls of Pennsylvania mammals. 



Samuel N. Rhoads. (Collected for the Academy.) Five Field Mice, 

 Microtus pennsylvanicus ; four Short-tailed Shrews, Blarina brevicauda, 

 and eleven White-footed Mice, Peromyscus leucopus, skins and skulls. 



Alfred Satterthwait. Jumping Mouse, Zapus Iiudsonius ameri- 

 canus (mounted), Chester county, Pa. 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Skin of Pocket Gopher and Shrew, British 

 Columbia. 



WiTMER Stone and J. A. G. Rehn. (Collected for the Academy.) 

 Two Red-backed Mice, Evotomys gapperi rhoadsi, skins and skulls, New 

 Jersey. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as indi- 

 cated : Mounted : Prevost's Squirrel, Sciurus prevosti ; Indian Rhinoceros, 

 RJiinoceros unicoriiis. To be mounted : Red Deer, Cermis elaphus ; 

 Black-backed Jackal, Canis mesomelas ; Ring-tailed Lemur, Lemur cntta; 

 Rufous-necked Wallaby, Ealamciturus ruficollis ; Red-handed Spider Mon- 

 key, Ateles paniscus. Skins and skulls : Entellus Monkey, Semnopithecus 

 entellus ; White-throated Monkey, Cercopithecus albogularis (no skull) ; 

 Gray-cheeked Mangaby, Cercocebus collaris ; Lion-tailed Macaque, Macacus 

 silenus ; Black Ape, Cynopithecus niger ; Silky Marmoset, Midas rosalia (no 

 skull) ; Lion, Felis leo (male) ; Florida Otter, Lutra hudsonica vaga ; Bas- 

 saris, Bassariscus astutus flavus; Black-backed Jackal, Canis mesomelas ; 




780 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Slow Loris, Tardigradus tardigradus (no skull) ; three Arizona Cottontails, 

 Lepus arizonm minor ; two Spermophiles, Sjiermophilus mexica7ius and S. 

 spilosoma ; Texan Cotton Rat, Sigmodon hispidus texianus ; two Wood Rats, 

 Neotoma micropus and iV". albigula ; Gopher, Cratogeomys castanops ; two 

 Kanj^aroo Rats, Dipodomys ambiguus and D. spectabilis ; Rufous-necked 

 Wallaby, Ilalmaturus ruficollis. Skin and skeleton : Female Buffalo, Bison 

 bison ; European Otter. Lutra Intra. Skulls : Green Monkey, Cercopithe- 

 cus calUtriehus ; Rhesus Macaque, Macacus rhesus ; Ring-tailed Coati, 

 Nasua narica. Skeletons : Indian Rhinoceros, B. unicornis ; two Spotted 

 Hyenas, Uyoena crocuta ; Striped Hyena, H. hymna ; Sacred Monkey, 

 Semnopithecus entellus ; Gibbon, Hylobates lar ; Black-backed Jackal, 

 Canismesomelas. Alcoholic: ivio Neotoma micropus, Tardigradus tardi- 

 gradus, Dipvs jaculus, Ursus arctos (very young), two SpermopJiilus 

 mexicanus. 



A. Donaldson Smith, M.D. Collection of thirty skins and skulls of 

 African mammals, several mounted heads and mounted Antelope. 



In Exchange. Twospecimens of GJiilonycteris, from Porto Rico. 



R. T. Young. Two skins of Weasel, Putorius noveboracensis, Princeton, 

 N. J. 



Birds. 



Col. G. T. Anderson. Two bird skins from the Philippines. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Three skins of Zonotrichia leucophys and 

 egg of Corvus cryptoleucus (?), Pecos, Tex. 



J. L. Buck. Parrot skull ( Chrysotis sp.). 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Three nests, two sets of 

 eggs and three mounted birds. 



H. W. Fowler. Collection of skulls and sterna, mainly of Pennsylvania 

 birds, and collection of skins of water birds from Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey. 



Alfred C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. Skin of Ibis 

 papiUosus, Borneo. 



Susan Hayhurst, M.D. Twelve skins of Colorado birds. 



Charles D. Kellogg. Several eggs of sea birds from Bird Rock. 



David McCadden. Skin of Harlequin Duck, Histrionicus histrionicus. 



Charles B. Penrose, M.D. Skin of Franklin's Grouse, Dendragapus 

 franklini. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Four skins of Pennsj'lvania birds. 



Tho>ias a. Rohinson. Ca^e of twelve mounted birds from Africa. 



A. Donaldson Sjiith. Collection of one hundred and twenty-nine bird 

 skins from Lake Rudolf and vicinity, Africa. 



Witmeu Stone. Collection of skulls and sterna of North American 

 birds. 



H. W. Wenzel. Specimen of Hudsonian Godwit, Limosa hmmastica 

 Anglesea, N. J., prepared as skin. 



Robert T. Young. Collection of nests and eggs of North American 

 birds from Nova Scotia, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, etc. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 781 



Zoological Society of PiiiLADELrHiA. Prepared as skins : THclio- 

 glossisforsteni, Chrysotis salvini, Rhampliastos brevicarinntus, Ohondestes 

 grammacus, Comirus patagonicus, Lanius ludomcianus excubitorides, 

 Ploceus baya, Pyrrhulopsis tabuensis, Amazona pretrci. Skull and 

 sternum : Coscoroba coscoroba, Falco fusco-cmrulescens. Skeleton : Den- 

 drocitta vagabunda, Pelecanus erythrorhyncJius, Gyps fulvus. 



Pdrchased. Mcllhenny collection of Alaskan birds, three hundred and 

 forty-seven skins. 



Eeptiles axd Batkachia. 



Arthl'R Eravin Brown. One hundred and forty-five specimens, repre- 

 senting seventy-five species, of snakes and lizards ; also type of Coluber sub- 

 ocular is Brown. 



Herbert Brown. Pliyllorhynchus decurtatus, Yuma, Ariz. 



Otto Beiir. Eattlesnake, Crotalus liorridus, and small collection of rep- 

 tiles, Wyoming count}'. Pa. 



E. D. Cope Estate. One hundred and fifty specimens of reptiles and 

 batrachia . 



Philip Laurent. A collegtion of reptiles and batrachia from Florida 

 and several specimens from Philadelphia. 



David McCadden. Specimen and plaster cast of Coluber obsoletus. 

 Stone Harbor, N. J. 



Clarence B. Moore. Three casts of snakes. 



Mrs. Scattergood. Pine snake, Pityophis melanoleucus, Brown's 

 Mills, N. J. 



Henry Skinner, jVI.D. Several reptiles and batrachia from Sapello 

 Canyon, N. M. 



Wither Stone and J. A. G. Rehn. Small collection of reptiles and 

 batrachia from the New Jersey Pine Barrens, including Rana mrgatipes 

 and Liolepisma laterale. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Tiliqua scincoides, Aus- 

 tralia. 



Fishes. 



Charles W. Buvinger. Five jars of fishes from Atlantic City, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Collections from Wood's Holl, Mass., Philadelphia and 

 New Jersey coast, and specimen of Salmon. 



David McCadden. Specimens of Pipe fishes, Siphostoma fuscum. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Jar of fishes from Florida. 



Mrs. L. J. RusHTON. Head of Sword-fish (mounted). 



J. B. Samuel. Bone of Sturgeon. 



J. A. ScHULTz. Mounted specimen of Grayling, Michigan. 



Benjamin Sharp, M.D. Sand Shark, Carcharias littoraUs, and Bill- 

 fish, Tylosurus acris, Nantucket, Mass. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Collection of Porto Rican fishes. 



E. D. Cope Estate. Several jars of fishes . 




782 proceedings of the academ's of [dec, 



Insects, etc. 



W. M. Bakeu. Larva of moth. 



H. F. Bassett. Three hundred and fifteen boxes of Cynipid;e and their 

 galls. 



Frederick Blanchard. One Coleopter. 



G. W. Bock, M.D. Thirty Hemiptera, nine hundred Coleoptera. 



A. E. Browx. One Coleopter, nine Orthoptera, three 'ihelyphorus, fifty 

 Hymenoptera. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Forty-three Hymenoptera, three Diptera, twenty- 

 two Lepidoptera, three Neuroptera, one Hemipter. 



Emily Gooper. Nest of Tarantula. 



E. T. Cresson. 3,511 species of Hymenoptera — 87,775 specimens, 2,367 

 types. 



J. S. Dixox. Eight Arachnida. 



S. G- Dixox. One Coleopter. 



George Elliot. Larva of Citheronia regaUs. 



Joseph W. Fell. Larva of Citheronia regalis. 



W. F. Fiske. One Lepidopter. 



George Fraxck. Forty Lepidoptera. • 



ARTHUR Frcehl. Dolomedes sp. 



A. Hempel. One hundred Neuroptera. 



M. E. Hoeg. Seven Lepidoptera, eleven Hymenoptera, five Coleoptera, 

 ten Neuroptera. 



Herjian Hornig. Two hundred and fifty Hymenoptera, thirty-five 

 Lepidoptera. 



C. W. JoHXSox. Six Diptera, two Lepidoptera. 



Philip Laurext. Two Orthoptera. 



C. W. Leng. Six Coleoptera. 



F. a. Merrick. One hundred and twenty-nine Lepidopteia. 

 H. B. Meyers. Fenodera sinensis. 



O. C. PoLiXG. Fourteen Lepidoptera. 



Charles Robertsox. Twenty-four Hymenoptera (co-types). 



J. A. G. Rehx". 1,653 Orthoptera. Collection of insects from New Jersey 

 Pine Barrens. (Collected for the Academy. ) 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Nine Hymenoptera, twenty-one Diptera, 

 three Lepidoptera, forty-seven Coleoptera, two Orthoptera, one Hemipter, 

 ten Neuroptera. 



Hexry Skinner. Three hundred and fifty-three Hymenoptera, one 

 hundred and seventy-two Diptera, five hundred and eighty-six Coleoptera, 

 two hundred and fourteen Homiptera, twenty-five Neuroptera, one hundred 

 and seventy-four Lepidoptera, fitty-one Orthoptera. 



Dr. a. D. Smith. Fortj'-seveu Coleoptera, thirty-one Lepidoptera, two 

 Hemiptera, two Oitlioptera. 



UsELMA C. S.mith. Four Hemiptera. 



Lancaster Thomas. Thirty-six Coleoptera, three Orthoptera, nine 

 Neuroptera. 




1901.] NATUIIAL SCIENCI<i3 OP FIIILADELPHIA. 783 



E. G. Vanatta. One thousand insects, various orders. 

 H. L. ViERECK. Thirty Hymenoptera. 



J. L. Webb. Two Coleoptera. 



H. W. "Wenzel. One hundred and forty-five Hymenoptera, eighteen 

 Coleoptera. 



W. M. Wheeler. Thirty Hymenoptera. 



J. S. Whitejian. Three Coleoptera. 

 • Stewardson Brown. Twelve Hemiptera, one Lepidopter. 



West Indian Fruit Co. Mygale sp. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Scolopendria sp., Pecos, Tex. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Rev. E. H. Ashmun. Sixty-seven species of land and fresh-water shells 

 from Idaho and Arizona. 



Carl F. Baker. Fifty-six trays of shells from the Southern States. 



F. C. Baker. Ten species of fresh-water shells from Illinois. 



W. T. Bend ALL. Oxystyln iindata Brug., from New Providence, 

 Bahama Ishxnds. 



A. C. BiLLUPS. Thirty -five species of laud shells from Indiana. 



Botanical Section. Two species of fresh- water shells from Bethlehem, 

 Pa. Three species of land and fresh-water shells from Bermuda. 



J. H. Britts, M.D. Fifty-seven species of Uniouidae from Missouri. 



F. W. Bryant. Three species of California land shells. 



Fred L. Button. Pecten diegoensis Dall, from Monterey, Cal. 



Emilio F. Cabada. Twelve trays of Cuban land shells. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Five species of marine shells from Bar Harbor, 

 Me. 



Geo. H. Clapp. Thirteen trays of American land shells. 



T. D. A. and W. P. Cockekell. Ninety lots of land and fresh-water 

 shells from New Mexico. 



O. Collett. Twenty-six species of shells from Ceylon, in exchange 



Annie P. Cope. Three hundred and seventy-three trays of shells from 

 the United States and Polynesia. 



O. A. Crandall. Physa rhomboiden and P. walkeri Crandall, cotypes. 



L. E. Daniels. Twenty-three lots of United States land shells. 



O. Debeaux. Six trays of Algerian land shells. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. Fifteen trays of marine shells from Cuba. 



S. M. Edwards. Pyramidula from Colorado. 



Sir Charles Elliott. Six trays of marine sliells from New Zealand. 



M. J. Elrod. Fifteen trays of land and fresh-water shells from Montana. 



J. H. Ferriss. Eighty-two lots of American land shells. 



Wm. H. Fluck. Seven species of marine and fresh-water shells from 

 Nicaragua. 



John Ford. Four species of shells from Florida and Pennsylvania. 



H. W. Fowler. Ten trays of marine shells from Martha's Vineyard, 

 Mass. 



L. S. Frierson. Quadrula lananensis Friersou. 




784 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



]Mrs. E. M. Gaylokd. Two species of E^nphrarjmophora from Santa 

 Catalina Island, California. 



Harold Heath. Four species of marine shells from California. 



Henry Hemphill. Eighteen species of California land shells. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Five species of land shells from Haiti. 



Y. Hiease. Eight hundred and thirty -six lots of Japanese shells. 



C. W. Johnson. Five species of American land and fresh-water shells. 



Howard Jones. Seven species of marine shells from New Jersey. ( 



Faith Keely. Five species of marine shells from New Jersey. 



R. E. B. IMcKenney, M.D. Ten species of European land mollusks, in 

 formalin. 



R. J. KiRKLAND, M.D. Planorhis from Michigan. 



E. J. Letson. Amnicola letsoncs and Ooniobasis niagarensis. 



O. S. Lewis. Four trays of fresh-water shells from Indiana. 



H. LooMis. Ten species of Japanese shells. 



H. N. Lowe. Four species of Limax and tectibranchs from Long Beach, 

 Cal. 



J. G. Malone. Seventy-five species of marine shells from Santa Rosalia, 

 Lower California. 



George T. Marston. PJiysa Integra Hald. from Quincy, 111. 



O. O. Nylander. Eighteen species of shells from Maine. 



Charles B. Penrose, M.D. Pisidium from Idaho. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, D.Sc. Twenty species of American land shells. 



Purchased. Three hundred and twenty-eight sjiecies of operculate land 

 shells. 



"W. M. Rankin. Two species of land and fresh-water shells from Ber- 

 muda. 



S. N. Rhoads. Forty-two trays of land and fresh-water shells from 

 New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 



S. Raymond Roberts. CyprcBa anncB Roberts, from Hawaii. 



Rev. J. KoWELL. Two trays of Pacific marine shells. 



W. H. Rush, M.D. Three trays of marine shells from Honolulu. 



Silas L. Schumo. Three trays of marine shells from Europe. 



B. Sharp, M.D. Seven trays of West Indian shells. 



C. T. Simpson. Pleurodonte bizonalis from Haiti. 



Henry Skinner, M.D. Eight species of land shells from New Mexico. 



R. E. C. Stearns. Vivipara stelmaphora Bgt. and Limax maximus from 

 California. 



Steere Expedition. Two trays of South American shells. 



WiTMER Stone. Donaxfossor from New Jersey. 



A. Donaldson Smith, M.D. Thirty-four species of shells from British 

 East Africa. 



Uselma C. Smith. Five trays of shells. 



Robert E. Snodgrass. One hundred and seventy-five trays of marine 

 shells from the Galapagos Islands. 



D. Thaanum. Thirty-six trays of marine shells from Hawaii, Australia 

 and New Guinea. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 785 



U. S. National Museum. Seven traj's of land shells from Japan and 

 Brazil. 



E. G. Vanatta. Eight species of American land shells. 



T. Van Hyning. Twenty -six species of American land and fresh-water 

 shells. 



J. W. Velik, M.I). Seven species of American shells. 



Bryant Walker. Twenty -two species of land and fresh-water shells 

 from Michigan. 



A. G. Wetpierbv. Nine species of American land and fresh-water shells. 

 J. J. "White. CeritMum costatnia from Bahama Islands. 



Wm. Wood. Six trays of shells. 



WiLLiARD Wood. Two trays of shells from California. 



L. WoOLMAX. L'nio from Greenbrier river, West Virginia. 



Other Invertebrates. 



Eev. E. H. Ashmun. lielicopsyche from Arizona. 



Botanical Section. Lingula ariaiina Brug., Australia. 



Stewardson Brown. Gambarus from Ganoga Lake, Pennsylvania. 



CiiAS. W. Buvinger. Two jars Crustacea, Atlantic City, N. J. 



H. C. CuAP.MAN, M.D. Seven jars of invertebrates from Bar Harbor, Me. 



T. D. a. Cockerell. Two specimens of Cambarus gallinus P. and C. 

 and lielicopsyche from New Mexico. 



Catharine G. Dixon. Lirmdus polyphemus from Ballast Point, Fla. 



J. E. Duerden. Fi%'e specimens of Peripatus from Bath, Jamaica. 



H. W. Fowler. Two jars of invertebrates from Martha's Vineyard, 

 ]Mass. 



C. L. FuRBUSH. Hyalonenia sp., Philippines. 



Y. HiRASE. Six species of Balanus and Brauhiopods from Japan. 



H. W. Nagle. Physalia from Anglesea, N. J. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Twenty-nine jars of invertebrates from Florida. 



Purchased. Thiity-five trays of invertebrates, collected by C. D. Voy in 

 the Pacific Ocean. Collection of Crustacea from Caroline Island, South 

 Pacific. 



S. N. Rhoads. Two trays of invertebrates from Cuba and New Jersey. 



W. H. Rush, M.D. Two jars of invertebrates from the Pacific Ocean, 



Paul Sartain, M.D. Specimen of coral. 



B. SH.4RP, M.D. Carcinus mmnas L. from Nantucket. 



UsELMA C Smith. Segartia spongicola Verr. from Spray Beach, N. J. 



WiTMER Stoxe. Suberites from Cape May, N. J. 



E. B. Williamson. Cambarus dubius from Nashville, Tenn. 



Fossil Vertebrates. 



Edward D. Cope Estate. A small miscellaneous collection. 



MiNERALOGiCAL SECTION. Two slabs of red shale, showing Dinosaur 

 tracks and ripple marks, from near Grater's Ford Station, Perkiomen R. R., 

 Montgomery county, Pa. 



UsELMA C. Smith. Fossil Fish, Green River, Wyoming. 

 50 




786 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Fossil Invertebrates. 



Rev. Leander Trowbridge Chamberlain. Six hundred and fifteen 

 lots from the Eocene and Oligocene of Europe. 



11. C. Chapman, M.D. Three species of Brachiopods from Maine and 

 Europe. 



Annie P. Cope. Three trays of North American fos.sils. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. Two trays of moUnsca from Cuba. 



George Cuthbert Gillespie. Baculites ovatus Saj', from Maple Shade, 

 N. J. 



C. W. Johnson. Teredo from Caloosahatcliie river, Florida. 



Clarence B. Moore. Ezoqrjra costata Say, Hoskins Landing, Miss. 



Jose N. Rovirosa, Osirea contractu Conr., Mexico. 



John Torpy. One tray of fossils from County Kilkenny, Ireland. 



J. T. "Walton. Two trays of fossils from near Cardiff, N. Y. 



S. "SVoolverton, M.D. Three trays of Canadian fossils. 



Fossil Plants. 

 Pauline L. Niedhard. Several Carboniferous plants. 



Plants. 



Hugo Bilgram. Drachma siibsissilis. Physarum pallidum and Phy- 

 saruvi variabile. 



Botanical Section. One hundred and ninety specimens of Mexican 

 plants, collections of C. G. Pringle ; one hundred and twenty-nine speci- 

 mens of Porto Rico plants, collections of A. A. Heller ; seven hundred and 

 seventy-six specimens of Ciuary Island plants, collections of Dr. Theodore 

 Bornmiiller. 



Stewardson Brown. Five hundred specimens of Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey plants. 



William M. Canby. One hundred and thirty-nine .specimens of North 

 American plants, principally from Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas. 



Zephaniah Hopper. Leptorchis lillifolia (L.). 



E. L. IMoRRis. BatracMum hederallum. 



Col. C. a. H. McCauley. Nine hundred and eighty specimens of plants 

 f roai Cjlorado and New ^lexio. 



C. F. Saunders. Thirty specimens of North American plants. 



Benjamin H. Smith. One hundred and thirty specimens of Colorado 

 plants. 



UsELMA C. Smith. Forty-one specimens of Colorado plants : twenty 

 specimens of Crata^guti. 



Wjtmer Stoxe. Two hundred and fifty specimens of Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey plants. 



E. G. Vanatta. Twenty specimens of Maryland plants. 



CONTRIBt^TORS TO FUND FOR PURCHASE OF .\. A. HELLER COLLECTION. 



Botanical Section, Stewardson Brown, Ida A. Keller, Ph.D., Arthur N. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 787 



Leeds, Francis S. Mandersou, Thomas Meehan, Adolph Miller, M.D., Silas 

 L. Schumo, Benjamin H. Smith, William C. Stevenson, Jr. 



Minerals. 



Bell's Asbestos Co. Asbestos and Serpentine, Ontario. 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. Limonite Geode, Pennsylvania; Chalcedony, 

 Florida. 

 W. H. Jarman, M.D. Sulphur found at Tampa, Fla. 

 Frances E. Peirce. Small case of minerals. 

 F. KiTSCHL. Taraspite and Asbestos. 

 T. H. Ryan. Specimen of Bituminous Coal, Colorado. 

 J. T. Walton. Two specimens of Limonite. 

 S. Woolveeton. Several minerals from Ontario. 

 William S. Vaux Collection. Specimens added by purchase. 



Archeology and Ethnology. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Arrowheads and Indian Mill, Pecos, Tex.; 

 Mexican Water Vessel, Ft. Davis, Tex. 



Robert Casperson, M.D. Four Metates, Costa Rica. 



Howard Eaton. Zuni Ceremonial Clothes. 



Cl.^rence B. Moore. Many additions to the Moore Archaeological 

 Collection. 



Purchased. Eskimo Coat, Rattle and Boots ; Beaded Saddle Bags. 



F. W. Putnam. Indian Mill, Metate. 



Charles G. Sower. Egyptian Mummy. 



J. F. Syfeit. Eskimo Kyak Model. 




788 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL 

 SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Journal of The Academy of Nutunil Sciences of Pliiladelphia. 8vo. 

 I, 1817-18— VIII, 1839-42. 



JouKNAL of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Second 

 Series. 4to. I, 1847-50— XI, 1897-1901. 



Kepokt of the transactions of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phil- 

 adelpliia, during tlie years 1825-1826. Submitted bj*^ S, G. Morton, 

 M.D., Recording Secretary. Philadelphia, 1827. 8vo. Pp. 1-15^ 

 Same, 1827-28. 8vo. 1829. Pp. 1-16. 



Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 8vo. I, 1841-43— LIII, 1891. 



Annual reports of the Treasurer have been published separatelj^ since 

 1890. 



Circular (small pamphlet containing instructions for collecting and 

 preparing specimens of natural history. Undated, but probably 

 about 1830). 12mo. Pp. 1-11. 



Act of incorporation and b3'-laws of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. Philadelphia, 1836. 8vo. Pp. i-iv, 

 1-8. The first edition of the Act of Incorporation and Constitution 

 Avas published in 1817 as part of the first number of the octavo 

 Journal. Republished with By-Laws in Vol. VI, 1829. 



Issued with the Proceedings, XXI, 



List of members and correspondents of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, from the origin of the Society on the 25th 

 of JanuarJ^ 1812, to the 1st of November, 1836. Philadelphia, 

 1836. 8vo. Pp. 1-16. 

 Same, 1841. 8vo. Pp. 1-19. Issued with Proceedings, I, 1841-43. 

 Same, 1848. 4to. Pp. 1-8. 

 ;Mkmi5ers and correspondents oi The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 1868. Philadelphia, 1868. . 8vo. Pp. 1-27. 

 Issued with Proceedings, XXI, 1870. 

 Same, 1877. 8vo. Pp. 1-18. 

 Same, 1893. 8vo. Pp. 1-62. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 789 



The Academy OF Xatural Sciences of Philadelphia. 1890. 13mo. 

 Pp. 1-11. 2 plates. Small descriptive pamphlet, issued iu cou- 

 nection witli application to the Legislature for an appropriation 

 toward the completion of the building. 

 Another edition, with modilications. 1895. Pp. 1-7. 



Catalogue op the library of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Phikidelphia. Philadelpliia, 1837. 8vo. Pp. i-x, 1-300. The 

 first catalogue of the library was begun in the Journal, No. 1, Vol. 

 I, 1817, and continued in Vols II, III, IV. 



Guide to the museum of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1876. Pp. 1-128. 



Handbook to the museum of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. Edited by J. H. Slack, M.D. 13mo. Pp. 1-116. 

 Philadelphia, 1862. 

 Same, 2d edition, 1866. 12mo. Pp. 1-30. 



Notice of the Academy of Natural Sciences op Philadelphia. 

 Second edition. Philadelphia, 1831. Pp. 1-16. (The first edition 

 was published in the American Journal of Science and Arts, 

 XIX, pp. 88-96.) 

 Same, 3d edition, 1836. Pp. 1-32. 

 Same, 4th edition, 1837. Pp. 1-24. 



A notice op the origin, progress and present condition of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger, M.D., Surgeon U. S. Navy. (Read before the 

 Society, February 10. 1852.) 8vo. Philadelphia. Pp. 1-78. 

 (Contains list of members.) 

 Same, 2d edition, 1860. 8vo. Pp. 1-102. 



Address delivered on laying the cornerstone of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences, May 25, 1839. By Walter R. Johnson, A.M , M.A.N.S., 

 etc. Published by order of the Academy. Philadelphia, 1839. 

 8vo. Pp. 1-8. Issued with Proceedings, I, 1841-43. 



Discourse in commemoration of the founding of The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By William Parker Foulke. 

 Delivered March 30, 1854, in the Hall of the University of Penn- 

 sylvania. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1854. Pp. 1-58. 



Addresses delivered on laying the cornerstone of an edifice for The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, October 30, 1872. 

 Philadelphia, 1873. (W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D., Rev. E. R. 

 Beadle, J. Aitken Meigs, M.J)., and Horatio C. Wood, M.D.) 

 8vo. Pp. 1-29. Issued with Proceedings, XXIV, 1872. 



Address delivered on the occasion of the opening of the new lecture 

 hall of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Febru- 

 ary 22, 1892. By the Rev. Henry C. McCook, D.D., Vice- 

 President. 8vo. Pp. 1-4. 



Remarks of Mr. John Welsh, Chairman of a Committee appointed 

 by certain citizens of Philadelphia, addressed to a special com- 

 mittee of the House of Representatives of Pennsylvania, com- 




790 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



posed of tlie members from the city of Philadelphia, to which was 

 referred the Senate Bill, giving permission to the Councils of 

 Philadelphia, to authorize the erection on the Penn Squares, of 

 buildings for the Promotion of Natural Science, Literature, the Fine 

 Arts, and the Mechanic Arts. February 26, 1868. 8to. Pp. 1-7. 



Annual reports (first, 1868, to eleventh, 1878) of the Board of Trustees 

 of the Building Fund of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phil- 

 adelphia to the Contributors to the Fund. 8vo. 

 (No reports were published between 1878 and 1891.) 



Annual keports of the Trustees of the Building Fund of The Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadeli)hia to the Contributors to the 

 Fund, January, 1891, 1892 and 1893. 8vo. 



An address. The claims of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia lo public favor. By W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Philadelphia, 1871. 8vo. Pp. 1-32. Three plates. 



Repobt op the condition of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, on moving into its new edifice southwest corner of 

 Race and Nineteenth streets. Made to the contributors to its 

 building-fund, April 28, 1876. By W. S. W. Ruschenberger. Phil- 

 adelphia, 1876. 8vo. Pp. 1-56. 



Summary history of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 By W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D, Philadelphia, 1877. 8vo. 

 Pp. 99-119. {Published as part or Guide to the 3Iusei(m. 1876.) 



Catalogue of the Strigid.e in the collection of The Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences of Philadelphia. B}^ John Cassin. 8vo, 19 pp. 

 (Issued with Proceedings, IV, 1848-49.) 



Catalogue of the Vulturid.e in the collection of The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By John Cassin. 8vo, 7 pp. 

 (Issued with Proceedings, IV, 1848-49.) 



Catalogue of the Caprimulgid.e in the collection of The Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By John Cassin, November 

 1, 1851. 8vo, 15 pp. (Issued with Proceedings, V, 1850-51.) 



Catalogue op the Hirundinid^e in the collection of The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By John Cassin, July 1, 1853. 

 8vo, 15 pp. (Issued with Proceedings, VI, 1852-53.) 



Catalogue of the IIalcyonid.e in the collection of The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By John Cassin, November 

 1, 1852. 8vo, 19 pp. (Issued with Proceedings, VI, 1852-53.) 



Catalogue of the Oological Collection in The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. By A. L. Ileermaun, M.D., March 1, 

 1853. 8vo. Pp. 1-36. (Issued with Proceedings, VI, 1852-53.) 



Catalogue of human crania in the collection of The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadeli>liia : Based upon the third edition of 

 Dr. Morton's "Catalogue of Skulls," etc. By J. Aitken Meigs, 

 M.D., Librarian of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, etc. 8vo. Philadelphia: Pp. 1-112. (Issued with Pro- 

 ceedings, VIII, 1856.) 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF nilLADELPIIIA. 791 



Catalogue op the invektebrate fossils op the Cretaceous 

 Formation of the United States, -with references. By William 

 M. Gabb, September, 1859. 8vo. Pp. 1-20. (Issued with Proceed- 

 ings, XI, 1859.) 



Catalogue op the pishes op the Eastern Coast op North Amer- 

 ica, from Greenland to Georgia. By Theodore Gill. January, 

 1861. 8vo. Pp. 1-G3. (Issued with Proceedings, XIII, 1861.) 



A Memoir op William Maclure, Esq., late President of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By Samuel George Morton, 

 M.D., one of the Vice-Presidents of the Institution. Read July 

 1, 1841, and published by direction of the Academy. Philadel- 

 phia, 1841. 8vo. Pp. 1-37, Portrait. (Issued with Proceedings, 

 I, 1841-43.) 

 Same, 2d edition. Philadelphia, 1844. 8vo Pp. 1-34. 



A Memoir of Samuel George Morton, M.D., late President of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. By Charles D. 

 Meigs, M.D, Read November 6, 1851, and published by direction 

 of the Academy. Philadelphia, 1851. 8vo. Pp. 1-48. 



A Syllabus op the courses of lectures and laboratory study and 

 work provided for students in the Natural Sciences. Philadelphia: 

 Printed for the Committee on Instruction, 1884. 8vo. Pp. 1-33. 



Biological and Microscopical Section. 



By-Laws and list of members. 1877. 8vo. Pp. 1-14. 



By-Laws with a list of members and contributors. Philadelphia, 1888. 

 8vo. Pp. 1-13. 



(Proceedings of the) Biological Department of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 1858, 1859, 1860. (Issued with Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy of corresponding dates.) 



(Proceedings of the) Biological and Microscopical Department of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences. 1868, 1869, 1870, 1871. (Issued 

 with Proceedings of the Academy of corresponding dates.) 



CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



By-Laws established for the government of the Conchological Section 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (n. d.). 

 8vo. Pp. 1-19. 



Manual ofConchology ; Structural and Systematic. With illustrations 

 of the species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 8vo. I, Cephalopoda, 



1879, 316 pp., 112 plates. II, Muricidfe, including Purpuriua?, 



1880, 289 pp., 70 plates. Ill, Tritonidfe, Fusida, Buccinidte, 1881, 

 310 pp., 87 plates. IV, Nassid*, Turbinellidjie, Volutida?, Mitridse, 



1882, 276 pp., 58 plates. V, Margiuellidie, Olividie, Columbellidse, 



1883, 276 pp., 63 plates. VI, Conidic, Pleurotomidffi, 1884, 400 pp., 

 65 plates. VII, Terebrida\ Cancellariida*, Strombid:e, Cyprseidte, 

 Ovulid;T?, Cassididie, Doliid«, 1885, 309 pp., 75 plates. VIII, 




792 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



NaticidfP, Calyptrandaj, Onustidtv, Tuiritellidas Vermelidix', Cte- 

 cidjB, Enlimida", Pyramidcllida', Turbonil]ida^ 1880, 4G1 pp., 79 

 plates. IX, Solariida-, lanlliinida, Trichotropida, Scalariida% 

 Cerithiida, Kissoida, Littorinidas 1887, 488 pp., 71 plates. X, 

 Nerilida, Adrorbiida, Cyclostrcmatida, Liotiida, 1888. 

 Manual of Conciiology, Structural and Systematic. "With illustra- 

 tions of the species. By George W. Tryon, Jr., continued by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. Phasianellina, Turbinida, Delpliinulina, 

 1888, 323 pp., 09 plates. XI, Trochida, 1889, 519 pp., Gi plates. 

 XII, Stoiuatellida, Scissurellida, Pleurotoraariidse, Ilaliotidse, 

 Scutelliuida, Addisoniida, Cocculinida, Fissurellida, 1890, 

 323 pp., 65 plates. XIII, Acmseida, Lepetida, Patellida, Titis- 

 caniida, 1891, 195 pp., 74 plates. XIV, Lepidopleurida, 

 Ischuochitonida, Chitonida, Mopaliida, 1893, 350 pp., 68 plates. 

 XV, Acanthochitida, Cryptoplacida, Actaonida, Tornatinida, 

 Scaphandrida, Bullida, Akerida, Ilydatinida, Hingiculida, 

 1893-94, 436 pp., 61 plates. XVI, Philinida, Aglajida, Gastrop- 

 terida, Aplysiida, Pleurobranchida, Umbrellida, etc., 1895, 262 

 pp., 75 plates. XVII, Scaphopoda. By H. A. Pilsbry and B. 

 Sharp. Aplacophora, Index to Series, 1897-8, 348 pp., 48 plates. 



Second Series : Fulmonata. Manual of Conchology, structural and 

 sj'stematic. With illustrations of the species. By George W. 

 Trj^on, Jr. I, Testacellida, Oleacinida, Streptaxida, Helicoidea, 

 Vitrinida, Limacida, Arionida, 1885, 364 pp., GO plates. II, Zon- 

 itida, 1886, 265 pp., 64 plates. Ill, Helicida, 1887, 313 pp., 63 

 plates. IV, Helicida, 1888, 266 pp., 69 plates. 



Second Series : Pulmonata. Manual of Conchology, structural and 

 systematic. With illustrations of the species. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr., continued by Henry A. Pilsbry. V, Helici- 

 da, 1889, 216 pp., 64 plates. VI, Helicida, 1890, 324 pp.. 68 

 plates. VII, Helicida, 1891, 225 pp., 61 plates. VIII, Helicida, 

 1892, 314 pp., 58 plates. IX, Guide to the Study of Helices, 1894- 

 95, 306 pp., 71 plates, and Index to Helices, 126 pp. X, American 

 Bulimi and Bulimuli, Strophocheilus, Plekocheilus, Auris, Buli- 

 mulus, 1895-6, 212 pp., 51 plates. XI, American Bulimulida : 

 Bulimulus, Xeopetraus, Oxychona, and South American Drymaus, 

 1897-8, 339 pp. 51 plates. XIT, American Bulimulida^ : Nortli 

 American and Antilleau Drymaus, Leiostracus, Orthalicina and 

 Amphibulima, 1899, 358 pp., 64 plates. XIII, Australian Buli- 

 mulida : Bothrienibrj'on, Placostylus. Helicidae]: Amphidromus, 

 1900, 253 pp., 72 plates. 



(Of the Manual of Conchology from Vol. I to the first part of Vol. X 

 of the first series and Vols. I, II, III and IV of the second series 

 were published by ^Ir. George W. Tryon, Jr. The work was 

 bequeathed by him to the Conchological Section of the Academy 

 and has since been continued by Henrj- A. Pilsbry, D.Sc.) 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELFHIA. 793 



Catalogue and synontmy of the geuera, species and varieties of recent 

 mollusca, described prior to January 1, 1867. With dates of 

 publication, references to plates and localities. Compiled and 

 published under the authority of the Conchological Section of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Part I, Pholada- 

 cea, by G. W. Tryon, Jr.; Solenidae and Mactridte, by T. A. Conrad, 

 Xovember, 1867, 47 pp. II, Anatinidte, by T. A. Conrad ; Saxi- 

 cavidfe, Myid«, Corbulidre, Tellinidne, by G. W. Tryon, Jr.; 

 Pandoridji>, by P. P. Carpenter, May, 1869, 78 pp. Ill, Corbicu- 

 lad;¥, by Temple Prime, October, 1869, 61 pp. IV, Porcellanidae, 

 Amphiperasidte, by S. R. Roberts, November, 1869, 26 pp. V, 

 3Iarginellidfe, by John H. Redfield ; Melaniida?, by A. Brot, M.D., 

 November, 1870, 111 pp. (Issued in the American Journal of 

 Conchologj'.) 



Amekicax Journal OF CoNgiiOLOGv, Vols. I and II. edited by George 

 W. Tryon, Jr., 1865, 1866. Vols. III-VII, published by the 

 Conchological Section of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. 8vo. 1867-1872. 



MONOGKAPH OF THE FRESH-WATER UNIVALVE MOLLUSCA of the United 



States. In continuation of Prof. S. S. Haldeman's work, pub- 

 lished under the above title. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Turbidaj, 

 Physadte, 1871. 8vo, 238 pp., 17 plates. 



Entomological Section (American Entomological 

 Society). 



Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Philadelphia, I, 1861— 



VI, 1867. 8vo. 

 The Practical Entomologist, I, 1865-66—11, 1866-67. 8vo. 

 Transactions of the American Entomological Society, I, 1867 — XXVII, 



1901. 8vo. 

 Proceedings of the monthly meetings of the Entomological Section of 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. (Issued with 



Transactions of the American Entomological Society, VII — XV.) 

 Entomological News and Proceedings of the Entomological Section of 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Editor, Henry 



Skinner, M.D. I, 1890— XII, 1901. 8vo. 

 Synopsis of the families and genera of the Hymenoptera of 



America, north of Mexico, by E. T. Cresson, 1887, 8vo, 350 pp. 

 The Butterflies op North America, by Wm. H. Edwards. [Vol. I.] 



1868-1872. 4to, 153 pp. 50 colored plates. 

 Synopsis op North American Butterflies, by Wm. H. Edwards. 



1872. 4to, 52 pp. 

 Catalogue of the Lepidoptera of America, north of Mexico, bj' AV. 



H. Edwards. Part I, Diurnals, 1877, 8vo, 68 pp. 

 Revised Catalogue of the Diurnal Lepidoptera of America, north of 



Mexico, by W. H. Edwards, 1884, 8vo, 95 pp. 




794 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



LiSTOF.THE CoLEOPTER.v of America, nortli of Mexico, hy Samuel Hen- 

 shaw, 1885. Supplemeut Xo. 1, 1887 ; No. 2, 1889 ; Xo. 3, 1895. 



By-Laws of the American Entomological Society, 1889 



List of the Lepidopter.v of Boreal America, by J. B. Smith, 1891. 



Entomologists' Directory, by Henry Skinner, 1900. 



Synonymic Catalogue of the North American RiiorALocERA, by 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., 1898, 8vo, 130 pp. 



List of members of the American Entomological Society, resident and 

 corresponding, 1897. 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Proceedings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. No. 1, 1877-1879. 

 Pp. 241-329. Issued in Proceedings of the Academy, XXXII, 

 1880. No. 2, 1880-1881, pp. 36-68. 8vo. Issued in Proceedings 

 of the Academy, XXXIV, 1882. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 795 



SERIALS RECEIVED BY THE ACADEMY. 



Those marked icith an asterisk are subscribed for. 



E. Academia de Cieucias exactas, fisicas y naturales. Madrid. 



Anuario. 



Memorias. 



Nomina Personal Academico. 



R. Academia de Ciencias medicas, fisicas y naturales. Habaua. 



Anales. 



R. Academia de Cieucias naturales y Artes. Barcelona. 

 Boletin. 



Academia nacional de Ciencias exactas. Cordoba. 

 Actas . 

 Boletin. 



Academic d'Hippone, Bone. 



Bulletin. 



Compte.s Rendus des Reunions. 



Academic de Metz. 

 Mt5moires. 



Academic royale des Sciences. Bruxelles. 



Annuaire. 



Bulletin. 



MiSmoires. 



M6moires couronnes, 4to. 



M^moires couronnes, Svo. 



Notices biographiques. 



Academic des Sciences. Paris. 

 Comptes Rendus. 



Academie des Sciences. Rouen. 



Precis analytique. 



Academie imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg. 



Annuaire du Mus6e zoologique. 



Bulletin. 



M6moires. 



Academie des Sciences de Cracovie. Krakau. 



Bulletin Internationale. 



Academie des Sciences, Belles- Lettres et Arts. BesanQou. 

 Proces-Verbaux et M6moires. 



Academie nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Caen. 

 Mi^moires. 



Academie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Dijon, 



Memoires. 

 Academie nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Bordeaux. 



Actes. 



Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Lyon. 

 Memoires. 




796 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Academie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. Toulouse. 



Bulletin. 

 M6moires. 



Academie des Sciences, des Lettres, et des Arts. Amiens. 

 Memoires. 



Academie des Sciences et Lettres. Montpellier, 



Memoires. 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



.Tournal. 

 Proceedings. 



Academy of Sciences of St. Louis. 

 Transactions. 



E. Accademia dei Fisiocritici. Siena. 



Atti. 



Processi verbali. 



Accademia gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Catania. 



Atti. 



Bullettino mensile. 



R. Accademia dei Lincei. Roma. 



Atti. 



Accademia lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Lucca. 



Atti. 



Accademia delle Scienze. Bologna. 



Mcniorie. 

 Reudiconti. 



R. Accademia delle Scienze. Torino. 



Atti. 



Memorie. 



Observazioni meteorologiche. 



R. Accademia delle Scienze fisiche e matematiche. Napoli. 



Atti. 

 Rendiconti. 



R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Modena. 

 Memorie. 



R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Pad ova. 

 Atti e Memorie. 



R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere et Arti degli Zelanti. Acireale. 

 Atti e Rendiconti. 



R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere e Belle Arti. Palermo. 



Atti. 

 Bollettino. 



Aertzlicher Verein. Frankfurt a. IM. 



Jahresbericht. 



Agricultural (The) Journal. Cape Town. » 



K. Akademie gemeinniitziger Wissenschafteu. Erfurt. 

 Jalirbuch. 



K. Akademie van Wetenschappen. Amsterdam. 



Jaarboek. 



Proceedings of the Section of Sciences. 



Verhandelingen. 



Verslagcn en Mededeelingen. 



Verslagen der Zittingen. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 797 



K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Berlin. 



Abliandlungen. 

 Sitzungsberichte. 



K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Wien. 



Commission fiir oceanographi.sche Forschungen. 



Deiikschriften. 



Mittheilungen der prahistorischen Commission. 



Sitzungsbericlite matli.-naturw. Klusse. 



Albany Institute. Albany. 

 Transactions. 



Allgemeine Zeitschrift fiir Entomologie. Neudaram (E. S.). 



American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

 Memoirs. 

 Proceedings. 



American Association for the Advancement of Science. Salem. 

 Proceedings. 



*Americau Anthropologist. New York. 



American (The) Antiquarian. Chicago. 



American Antiquarian Society. Worcester. 

 Proceedings. 



American Cliemical Journal. Baltimore. 



American Chemical Society. Easton. 

 Journal. 



American Climatological Association. Philadelphia. 



Transactions. 



American Entomological Society (Entomological Section of the Academy). 

 Philadelphia. 



Transactions. 

 EntorQological News. 



American Geographical Society. New York. 

 Bulletin. 



^American (The) Geologist. Minneapolis. 



American Institute of Mining Engineers. New York. 

 Transactions. 



*American Journal of Anatomy. Baltimore. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. Philadelphia. 



* American (The) Journal of Physiology. Boston. 



American Journal of Psychology. Worcester. 



American (The) Journal of Science. New Haven. 



American Journal of Mathematics. Baliimore. 



American (The) Monthly Microscopical Journal. Washington. 



American Museum of Natural History. New York. 



Annual Reports. 



Bulletin. 



Memoirs. 



American Naturalist. Cambridge. 



American Ornithologists' Union. New York. 

 The Auk. 




798 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



American Pharmaceutical Association. Philadelphia. 



Proceedings. 



American Philosophical Society. Philadelphia. 



Proceedings. 

 Transactions. 



American Society of Microscopists. 

 Proceedings. 



*Anatomischer Anzeiger. Jena. 



Anatoniische Gesellschaft. Jena. 



*Verhandlungen. 



*Anatomische Hefte. Ergebnisse der Anatomie nnd Entwickelungs- 

 geschichte. Wiesbaden. 



*Annales de Geographie. Paris. 



*Anuales de Geologic et de Palcontologie. Torino. 



Annales des Mines. Paiis. 



*Annales (Les) de la Psychologic zoologique. Paris. 



*Annales des Sciences naturelles. Paris. 



Annali di Neurologia. Napoli. 



*Annals of Botany. Oxford. 



*Annals and Magazine of Natural History. London. 



*Ann6e (L') biologique. Paris. 



*Annuaire geologique universel. Paris. 



Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. London. 



♦.Journal. 

 *Man. 



Anthropological Society of Australia. Sydney. 

 Science of Man. 



♦Anthropologic (L'). Paris. 



Anthropologische Gesellschaft in Wien. 



*Mittheilungen. 



Anuario estadistica. La Plata. 



Appalachian Mountain Club. Cambridge. 



Appalachia. 

 Register. 



Aquila. A magyar Madartani Kozpont Folyoirata. Budapest. 



*Arbeiten auf dem Gebeite der pathologische Anatomie nnd Bacteriologie 

 aus dem pathologisch-auatomischeu Institut zu Tiibingen. 



*Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologic. Leipzig. 



*Archiv fiir Anlhropologie. Braunschweig. 



*Archiv fiir Entwickelungsmechanik der Organismen. Leipzig. 



*Archiv f. d. gesammte Physiologie des Menschen u. d. Thiere. Bonn. 



Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab. Kristiania. 



*Archiv fiir mikroskoj^ische Anatomie. Bonn. 



Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Berlin. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 799 



*Archiv der iiaturwissenschaftlicheu Landesdurchforschung von Bolimen. 

 Prague. 



*i\rchives d' Anatomic microscopique. Paris. 



^Archives de Biologic. Gand. 



^Archives de Physiologie. Paris. 



*Archives italieunes de Biologie. Eoma. 



*Arehives de Zoologie experimentale et gcncralc. Paris. 



*Archivio italiano di Anatomia e di Embriologia. 



Asiatic Society of Bengal. Calcutta. 



Journal. 

 Proceedings. 



Royal Asiatic Society, Ceylon Branch. Colombo. 

 Journal. 



Associacao do3 Engenheiros civis portugezes. Lisboa. 



Revista de Obras publicas e miuas. 



Association franQaise pour I'Avancement des Sciences. 

 Comptes Rendus. 



Astronomical and Physical Society. Toronto. 

 Transactions. 



Ateneo di Brescia. 



Commeutari. 



Ateneo (L') veneto. Venezia. 



Australian Association for the Advancement of Science. Sydne}'. 

 Report. 



Australian Mnseum. Sydney. 



Catalogue. 



Memoirs. 



Records. 



Report of the Trustees. 



Bataafsch Genootschap der proefoudervindelijke Wijsbegeerte. Rotterdam. 



Nieuvve Verhaudelingen. 

 Programme. 



Bayerische botanische Gesellschaft zur Erforschung der heimischen Flora. 

 Miinchen. 

 Berichte. 



K. bayerische botanische Gesellschaft. Regensburg, 



* Flora. 



K. b.^yerische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Miinchen. 



Abhaudluugen. 

 Sitzuugsberichte. 



K. bayerische Oberljergamt. Miinchen. 



Geognostische Jahreshefte. 

 *Beitriige zur Biologie der Pflanzen. 



*Beitrage zur chemischeu Physiologie und Pathologic. Braunschweig. 

 *Bntriige zur Palilontologie Oesterreich-Ungarns und des Orients. Wien. 



Belfast Natural History and Philosophical Society. Belfast. 

 Proceedings. 




800 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Belfast Naturalists' Field Club. 

 Annual Report. 



Bergens Museums. Bergen. 



Aarbog. 

 Aarsberetning. 



Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. 

 Berlin. 



* Nachrichten iiber deutsche Alterthumsfunde. 

 Verhandlunpeu. 



* Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie. 



Bernice Paiiahi Bishop Museum. Honolulu. 



Fauna llawaiiensis. 



Memoirs. 



O casional Papers. 



*Bibliographia geologica. Bruxelles. 



Biblioteca nazionale centrale. Firenze. 

 Bollettino. 



*Bibliotheca botanica. Stuttgart. 



*Bibliotheea zoologica. Leipzig. 



BLbliotbeque universelle. Geneve. 



* Arcliives des Sciences physiques et naturelles. 



Biological Society. Washington. 



Proceedings. 



Biologische Abtheilung fiir Land- und Forstwirthschaft am k. Gesuncl 

 heitsamte. Berlin. 

 *Arbeiteu. 



Biologische Station zu Plon. 



* Forschungsberichte. 



"Biologische Untersuchungeu. Stockholm. 



*Biologisches Centralblatt. Erlangen. 



Birmingham Philosophical Society. Birmingham. 

 Proceedings. 



BiurouluiGeologicu. Bucharest. 

 Harta geologica generala a Romaniei. 



K. bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissen^chaften. Prag. 



Jahresbericht. 

 Siizungsberichte. 



Boston City Hospital. Boston. 

 Report. 



Boston Public Library. Boston. 



Annual Report. 

 Monllily Bulletin. 



Boston Society of Natural History. Boston. 



Memoirs. 



Occasional Papers. 

 Pro: euUiUL'S. 



Royal Botanic Garden. Calcutta. 



Annals. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 801 



Kojal Botanic Gardens. Port of Spain. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



Botanical Garden. Tiflis. [In Eussian.] 

 Report. 



Botanical (The) Gazette. Chicago. 



Botanical Society. Edinburgh. 

 Transactions and Proceedings. 



Botanical Survey of India. Calcutta. 

 Records. 

 Report of Director. 



*Botanische Jahrbiicher. Leipzig. 



*Botanische Mittheilungen aus dem Tropen. Jena. 



*Botani;che Zeitung. Berlin. 



Botanischer Verein. Landshnt. 



Bericht. 



Botanischer Yerein der Provinz Brandenburg. Berlin. 



Gartenflora. 

 Verhandlungen. 



*Botanisches Centralblatt. Cassel. 



Botaniske Forening. Kjobenhavn. 

 Botauisk Tidsskrift. 



British (The) Bee Journal. London (E. S.). 



Botaniste (Le). Paris. 



Bristol (The) Museum and Reference Library. Bristol. 

 Report. 



Bristol Naturalists' Society. Bristol. 



l^ist of the Society. 

 Proceedings. 



British Association for the Advancement of Science. London. 

 * Report. 



British Museum [Natural History]. London. 

 fPublications.] 



Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. Buffalo. 

 Bulletin. 



Bulletin scientifique de la France et de la Belgique. Paris. 



■^Bulletins of American Paleontology. Ithaca. 



Bureau of American Ethnology Washington. 



Annual Report. 



Bussey Institution. Cambridge. 

 Bulletin. 



California Academy of Sciences. San Francisco. 



Memoiis. 



Occasional Papers. 

 Proceedings. 



California State Mining Bureau. San Francisco. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



51 




802 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Cambridge Philosophical Society. Cambridge. 

 Proceedings. 

 Transactions. 



Canadian Institute. Toronto. 

 Prooeedinjrs. 

 Transactions. 



Cape of Good Hope Department of Agriculture. Cape Town. 



Annual Report of the Geological Commission. 

 Marine Investisations in South Africa. 

 Report of the Colonial Veterinary Surgeon. 

 Report of the Government Botanist. 

 Report of the Government Entomologist. 

 Report of the Marine Biologist. 

 Reports of the Agricultural Assistants. 

 Reports of the Conservators of Forests. 



Cardiff Naturalists' Society. Cardiff. 

 Report and Transactions. 



Carnegie Library. Atlanta. 



Annual Report. 



Carnegie Museum. Pittsburg. 



Annal-s. 



Annual Report, 

 Memoirs. 



Catholic (The) University of America. Washington. 



Catholic (The) University Bulletin. 



♦Cellule (La). Lierre. 



Centraal Bureau voor de Kennis van de Provincie Groningen. Groningeu 

 Bijdragen tot de Kennis van de Provincie Groningen. 



K. k. Central -Anstalt fiir ]\[eteorologieund Erdmagnetismus. Wien. 

 Jahrbttcher. 



*Centralblatt fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie, und Urgeschichte. Jena. 



*Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde. Jena. 



Centralblatt fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Palseontologie. Stuttgart. 



*Centralblatt fiir Physiologic. Berlin. 



Ceska Akademie Cisare Frantiska Josefa. Prague. 

 Bulletin international. 

 Palaeontographica Bohemlse. 

 Rozpravy. 

 Vestnik. 



Chemical Society. London. 



Journal. 

 Proceedings. 



Chicago Academy of Sciences. Chicago. 



Annual Report. 



Bulletin. 



Bulletin of Geological and Natural History Survey. 



Chicago Public Library. Chicago. 



Annual Reports. 



Cincinnati Society of Natural History. Cincinnati. 

 Journal. 



Club alpin de Crimee. Odessa. 

 Bulletin. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 803 



Club alpiu Suisse, Sections romandes. Geneve. 

 L'Kcho des Alpes. 



Colorado College. Colorado College. 



Colorado College Studies (Annual Publication). 



Colorado Scientific Society. Denver. 



Bulletin. 

 Proceedings. 



College of New Jersey. Princeton. 

 Catalogue. 



Columbia College. New York. 

 Contributions from the Herbarium. 

 School of Mines Quarterly. 



Comision geologica de Mexico. Mexico. 

 Boletin. 



Comite geologique russe. St. Petersburg. 



Bulletin. 

 Memoires. 



Commissao geographica e geologica do Estado de S. Paulo. 



Boletin. 



Dados climatologicos. 



Commission of Agricultural Parasitology. Mexico. 



[Publications.] 



Commission geologique de Finlande. Helsingfors. 



Bulletin. 



Commission des Travaux geologiques du Portugal. Lisboa. 



Communicacoes. 

 [Publications.] 



Commission for Ledelsen af de geologiske og geographiske Undersogelser i 

 GiOnland. Kjobenhayn. 



* Meddelelser om Gr0nland. 



Commissioners of Inland Fisheries and Game. Boston. 



Report. 



Congies Internationale de Zoologie. 



* Compte Rendu des Sciences. 



Congves scientifique International des Catholiques. 



* Compte Rendu. 



Cooper Ornithological Club of California. Santa Clara. 



* Bulletin. 



* Pacific Coast Avifauna. 



Congres geologique internationale. 



* Compte Rendu. 



Congies internationale des Americanistes. 



* Compte Rendu. 



Congreso cientifico latiuo-americano. 



Trabajos. 



Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. New Haven 

 Transaction.'. 



Cornell University, Agricultural Experiment Station. Ithaca. 



Bulletin. 




804 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF , [DeC, 



Croydon Microscopical and Natural History Clnb. Croydon. 

 Proceedings and Transactions. 



"Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Loudon. 



K. danske videnskabernes Selskab. Kjobenliavn. 



Oversigt. 

 Skrifter, 



Darlington Botanical Society. West Chester. 



Leaflet. 



Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences. Davenport."" 



Proceedings. 



Dayton Public Library and Museum. Dayton. 



Annual Report. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Philadelphia. 

 Abstracts of the Proceedings. 



Denison University. Granville. 

 Bulletin of the Scientific Laboratories. 



Department of Marine and Fisheries. Canada. 

 Report of the IMeteorological Service of Canada. 



Department of Mines, Nova Scotia. Halifax. 

 Report. 



Dental (The) Cosmos. Philadelphia. 



Deutsche botanische Gesellschaft. Berlin. 



* Berichte. 



*Deut3che botanische Monatsschrift. Arnstadt. 



Deutsche entomologische Gesellschaft. Berlin. 

 Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift. 



Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Berlin. 



Zeitschrift. 



Deutsche malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Frankfurt a. M. 



Nachrlchtsblatt. 



Deutsche zoologische Gesellschaft. Leipzig. 



* Verhandlungen. 



Deutscher Fischereiverein. Berlin. 



Allegemelne Fischerei-Zeitung. 

 Zeitschrift fUr Fischerei. 



Deutscher naturwissenschaftlich-medicinischer Verein fiir Bohmeu "Lotos. ' " 

 Prag. 



Abhandlungen. 

 Sitzungsberichte. 



Deutscher uud oesterreichiscber Alpenverein. Salzburg. 



Mittheilungen. 



Wisseiischaflliche Ergiinzungshefte. 



Zeitschrift. 



Deutscher Seefischerei- Verein. Berlin. 



Mittheilungen. 



Deutscher Verein zuoj Schutze der Vogelwelt. Gera. 

 Monatsschrift. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.' 805 



Rojal Dublin Society. Dublin. 



Economic Proceedings. 



Proceedings. 



Transactions. 



Echange (L'). Eevue linndenne. Lyon. 

 Ecole d'Anthropologie. Paris. 



* Revue Mensuelle. 



Ecole polytechn^ique. Paris. 

 Journal. 



Edinburgh Geological Society. Edinburgh. 

 Transactions. 



Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society. Chapel Hill. 



Journal. 



Engineers' Club of Philadelphia, 



Proceedings. 



Engineers' Society of Western Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh. 



Proceedings. 



Entomological Society of London. 

 Transactions. 



Entomological Society of Ontario. London. 



Annual Report. 

 Canadian Entomologist. 



Entomological Society of Washington. 

 Proceedings. 



Entomologischer Verein in Berlin. 

 Berliner entomologische Zeitschrift. 



Entomologischer Verein. Stettin. 

 Stettiner entomologische Zeitung. 



Entomologiska Forening. Kjobenhavn. 



*Entomologiska Meddelelser. 



Entomologiska Forening. Stockholm. 

 Entomologiska Tidskrift. 



*Entomologist (The). London. 



^Entomologist's (The) Monthly Magazine. London (E. S.). 



*Entomologist's (The) Record and Journal of Variation. London (E. S.) 



Eidelyi Museum-Egylet. Kolozsvart. 



Orvos-Termeszettudomanyi Ertesito. 



Essex Institute. Salem. 



Bulletin. 



R. ethnographisch Museum. Leiden. 



Verslag van der Directeur. 



Faculte des Sciences, Marseille. 



Ann ales. 



Fairmount Park Art Association. Philadelphia. 

 Report of the Board of Trustees. 



Ferdinandeum. Innsbruck. 



Zeitschrift. 




806 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Feuille des jeunes Naturalistes. Paris. 



Field Columbian Museum. Chicago. 



Annual Exchange Catalogue, 

 rnblications. 



Field Naturalists' Club of Victoria. Melbourne. 



Victorian (The) Naturalist. 



Finska vetenskaps-Societeten. Helsingfors. 



Acta. 



Kidrag. 



Ofversigt. 



Fondazione scientifici Cagniola. Milano. 

 Atti. 



Forest and Stream. New York. 



*Forschungen zur deutschen Landes- und Volkskunde. Stuttgart. 



Franklin Institute. Philadelphia. 



Journal. 



Free (The) Library of Philadelphia. Philadelphia. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



Free Public Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery. Liverpool. 



Annual Report. 



Gardeners' (The) Chronicle. London. 



Royal Geographical Society. London. 



The Geographical Journal. 

 Supplementary Papers. 



Geographical Society. Philadelphia. 

 Bulletin. 



Geographische Gesellschaft und naturhistorisches Museum. Liibeck. 

 Mitteilungen. 



K. k. geographische Gesellschaft in Wien. 



Abhandlnugen. 

 Mittheilungen. 



* Geological (The) Magazine. London. 



Geological Society. London. 



Geological Literature added to Library. 



List. 



Quarterly Journal. 



Geological Society of America. 



Bulletin. 

 R. Geological Society of Cornwall. Penzance. 



Transactions. 



R. Geological Society of Ireland. Dublin. 

 Journal. 



Geological Survey of Alabama. 

 Bulletin. 

 [Publications.] 



Geological Survey of Georgia. 

 Bulletin. 

 [Publications.] 

 Report of Progress. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA. 807 



Geological Survey of India. Calcutta. 



General Report. 



Memoirs. 



Memoirs, Palceontologia ludica. 



Records. 



Geological Survey of Louisiana. New Orleans. 

 Report. ; 



Geological Survey of Michigan. Lansing. 

 [Publications.] 



Geological Survey of Missouri. Rolla. 



Biennial Report of the State Zoologist. 

 Report. 



Geological Survey of New Jersey. Trenton, 

 Annual Report of the State Geologist. 



Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada. Ottawa. 

 Annual Report. 



Contributions to Canadian Palasontology. 

 Contributions from the Herbarium. 



Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota. Minneapolis. 



Annual Report. 



Bulletin. 



Geology (The) of Minnesota. 



Report, Botanical Series. 



Report, Zoological Series. 



*Geologische und palasontologische Abhandlungen. Jena. 



K. k. geologische Reichsanstalt. Wieu. 



Abhandlungen. 



Jahrbuch. 



Verhandlungen. 



*Geologisches Centralblatt. Leipzig. 



Geologisches Reichs-Museum in Leiden. 

 Sammlungen. 



Geologiska Forening i Stockholm. 

 Forhandlingar. 



Geologists' Association. London. 

 Proceedings. 



Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten Naturwissenschafteu. Mar- 

 burg. 

 Schriften. 

 Sitzuugsberichte. 



Gesellschaft deutscher Naturforscher und Aerzte. 

 * Verhandlungen. 



Gesellschaft fiir Erdkunde. Berlin. 



Verhandlungen. 

 Zeitschrift. 



Gesellschaft von Freundeu der Naturwissenschaften. Gera. 



Jahresbericht. 



Gesellschaft Iris. Dresden. 



Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift (E. S.). 



Gesellschaft fiir Morphologie und Physiologic. Miinchen. 



Sitzungsberichte. 




808 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde. Berlin. 



Sitzungsberichte. 



Gesellschaft fiir Volkerkunde und Erdknnde zu Stettin. 

 Bericht. 



K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. (iottingen. 

 Nachrichten. 



* Giornale di Mineralogia. Milano. 



* Globus, illustrirte Zeitschrift fiir Lander und Volkerkunde. Braun- 



schweig. 



Gloversville Free Library, Gloversville. 

 Annual Report. 



Goteborgs K. Vetenskaps och Vitterhets Samhtilles. Goteborg. 

 Handlingar. 



Guernsey Society of Natural Science. Guernsey. 



Report and Transactions. 



Gymnase bulgare des GarQons St. Cyrille et Method. Salonica. 



Bulletin annuaire de la Station meteorologique. 

 Hamilton Association. Hamilton. 



Journal and Proceedings. 



Hartford (The) Public Library. Hartford. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



Harvard College. Cambridge. 



Annual Reports. 

 Catalogue. 



*Hedwigia. Organ fiir Kryptogamenkunde. Dresden. 



L'Herbier Boissier. Geneve. 



Bulletin. 

 Memoires. 



Hertfordshire Natural History Society. Hertford. 

 Transactions. 



*Histologische Beitrage. Jena. 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia. 

 Pennsylvania Jlagazine of History and Biograpby. 



Historical Society of Southern California. Los Angeles. 

 Annual Publication. 



Historischer Verein von Oberpfalz und Regensburg. liegensburg. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Hollandsche ]\Iaat«chappij der Wetenschappen. Haarlem. 



Natuurknndige Verhandelingen. 



*Hoppe-Seyler's Zeitschrift fiir physiologische Chemie. Strassburg. 



Horticultural Society. London. 

 Journal. 



Hortus Petropolitanus. St. Petersburg. 

 Acta. 



Hortus Universitatis imperialis Petropolitanse. St. Petersburg. 

 *Scripta Botanica. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 809 



*Ibis (The). London. 



Illinois Bureau of Labor Statistics. Springfield. 



Annual Coal Keport. 



Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History. Urbana. 

 Biennial Report. 

 Bulletin. 



*Index and Review. Washington. 



Indian Museum. Calcutta. 



[Publications.] 

 Annual Report. 



Indiana Academy of Sciences. Indianapolis. 



Proceedings. 



Indiana. Department of Geology and Natural Rei-ources. Indianapolis. 



Reports. 



Insect (The) World : a monthly magazine edited by Y. Nawa. Gifu (E.S.) 

 Insekten-Borse. Internationales W(chenblatt der Entomologie (E.S. ). 



Institut botanique. Buitenzorg. 



Bulletin. 



Institut colonial. Marseille. 



Annales. 



Institut national genevois. Geneve. 

 Bulletin. 

 Mtoioires. 



Institut grand-ducal. Luxembourg. 

 Publications. 



Institute of Jamaica. Kingston. 

 Annals. 

 Journal. 



Instituto geografico argentine. Buenos Aires. 

 Boletin. 



Instituto medico nacional. Mexico. 



Anales. 



Datos para la Materia Medica mexlcana. 



R. Institution of Cornwall. Truro. 

 Journal. 



R. Institution of Great Britain. London. 

 Proceedings. 



Instructor (El). Aguascalientes. 



* Internationale Monatsschrift fiir Anatomic und Physiologic. Leipzig. 



* Internationale Archiv fiir Ethnographic. Leyden. 



Iowa Academy of Science. Des Moines. 

 Proceedings. 



Iowa Geological Survey. 

 Annual Keport. 



Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Art.=. Des Moines. 

 Contributions from the Department of Zoology and Entomology (E. S.). 




810 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Koyal Irish Academy. Dublin. 



List of Members. 

 I'ruceedings, Science. 

 Tiausactious, Science. 



Irish Naturalist. Dublin. 



R. Istituto botanico di Eoma. Roma. 



♦Annnario. 



Istituto botanico dell' Universita de' Pavia. 



*Atti. 



R. Istituto d'Incorraggiamento alle Scienze naturali, ecouomiche e tech- 

 uologiche. Napoli. 



Atti. 



R. Istituto lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Milano. 

 Rendiconti. 



R. Istituto di Studi superiori pratici e di perfezionamento. Fireuze. 

 Publicazioni. 



R. Istituto tecbnico sui)eriore. Milano. 

 Programma. 



R. Istituto veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Venezia. 



Atti. 



*Jaarboek van bet Mijnwesen in nederlandsch Oost-Indie. Amsterdam. 



Furstlich jablonowski'scbe Gesellscbaft. Leipzig. 



Jahresbericht. 

 Preisschrifteu. 



Jardin botanique. Buitenzorg. 

 Annales. 



Jardin imperial botanique. St. Petersburg. 



*Jahresbericbte liber die Fortscbritte der Anatomie uud Entwickelungs- 

 geschichte. Jena. 



*Jahresbericbt liber die Fortscbritte in der Lebre von den pathogenen 

 Mikroorganismen. Leipzig. 



*Jabresbericht liber die Fortscbritte der Physiologie. Bonn. 



*Jahres-Beiicbt liber die Fortscbritte der Thier-Chemie oder der pbysiolog- 

 iscben und patbologisclien Chemie. "Wiesbaden. 



*Jahresbericbt liber die Neuerungen und Leistungen auf dem Gebiete des 

 Pflanzenscbutzes. Berlin. 



*Jabrblicher flir wissensebaftlicbe Botanik. Leipzig. 



John (The) Crerar Library. Chicago. 

 Annual Reports. 



Johns Hopkins University. Baltimore. 

 Circubirs. 

 Studies from the Biological Laboratory. 



*Journal de I'Anatomie et de Physiologie. Paris. 



* Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. London. 

 Journal of Applied Microscopy. Rochester. 

 *Jourual de Botanique. Paris. 



* Journal of Botany. London. 




190].] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 811 



*JourDal (The) of Comparative Medicine and Veterinary Archives. Phila- 

 delph'a. 



Journal (The) of Comparative Neurology. Granville. 



Journal of Conchology. Manchester. 



Journal de Conchyliologie. Paris. 



Journal (The) of Geology. Chicago. 



Journal of Malacology. London. 



■^Journal of Marine Zoology and Microscopy. London. 



*Journal fi'ir Ornithologie. Leipzig. 



*Journal of Physical Chemistry. 



*Journal de Physiologic et de Pathologic g^n^rale. Paris. 



^Journal of Physiology. London. 



*Just's botanischer Jahresbericht. Leipzig. 



Justus Perthes geographischer Anstalt. Gotha. 

 * Mitteilungen (und Erganzungshefte). 



Kansas Academy of Sciences. Topeka. 

 Transactions. 



Kansas City Public Library. Kansas City, Mo. 



Public Library Quarterly. 



Kansas State Historical Society. Topeka. 

 Report. 

 Transactions. 



Kommission zur wissenschaftlichen Untersuchungen der deutschen Meere 

 in Kiel (Abtheilungen Kiel und Helgoland). Kiel. 

 Wissenschaftliche Meeresuntersuchungen. 



Kruidkundig Genootschap Dodonoea. Gent. 

 Botanisch Jaarboek. 



Laboratoria der Gouvernement's Kinaondernening. Batavia. 



Mededeelingen. 



Laboratorium et Museum et Clinicum. Berlin. 



Landesmuseum von Karnten. Klagenfurt. 



Carinthia. 

 Jahrbuch. 



'sLands Plantentuin. Biiitenzorg. 



Mededeelingen. 

 Verslag. 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society. Leeds. 

 Annual Report. 



Leland Stanford Junior University. Stanford University. 



Bulletins. 



Contributions to Biology from the Hopkins Laboratory of Biology. 



Register. 



K. leopoldinisch-carolinisch-deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher. Dres- 

 den. 



Katalog der Bibliotbek. 



Leopoldina. 



Nova Acta. 



Repertorium zu den .\cta und Nova Acta. 




812 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



*Letha'a geognostica oder Besthreibung und Abbildung der fiir die 

 Gebirgs-Formatioiien bezeichnendsten Versteinerungen. Stuttgart. 



Leyden Museum. Leyden. 



Notes. 



Library of Congress. Washington. 



[Bibliographical Publications.] 

 Report of the Librarian. 



*Library Journal. New York. 



*Lindenia: Iconographie des Orcbidees. Bruxelles. 



Linnean Society. London, 



Journal. 

 List. 



Proceedings. 

 Transactions. 



Linnean Society of New South Wales. Sydney. 

 Proceedings. 



Linnean Society. New York. 

 Abstract of the Proceedings. 



Literary and Historical Society. Quebec. 

 Transactions. 



Literary News. New York. 



Literary and Philosophical Society. Liverpool. 

 Proceedings. 



Liverpool Biological Society. Liverpool. 

 Proceedings. 



Liverpool Geological Society. Liverpool. 



Proceedings. 



Liverpool Marine Biology Committee. Liverpool. 



* Memoirs. 



Lloyd Library of Botany, Pharmacy and Materia Medica. Cincinnati. 



Bulletin. 



Lloyd Mycological Museum. Cincinnati. 



Mycological Notes. 

 Report. 



♦London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. London. 



Lotos Verein. Prag. 



Jahrbuch fUr Naturwissenschaften. 



Lowell Observatory. Flagstaff. 

 Annals. 



Lunds Universitets. Lund. 



Ars-Skrift (Acta). 



K. Lyceum Hoseanum. Braunsberg. 



Arbeiten aus deni bolanischen Institut. 



Madras Government Museum. Madras. 

 Bulletin. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrillA, 813 



Magyar tudomanyos Akademia. Budapest. 

 Almanach. 



Ertekezesek a mathematikai tudomanyok Korebol. 

 Ertekezesek a termeszettudoinanyok Korebol. 

 Mathematikai es termeszottudomanyi F>testito. 

 Mathematikai es termeszettudomanyi Kiizlem^nyek, etc. 

 Mathematische und naturwissenfcliaftliche Berichto aus Ungarn. 

 Rapport. 

 Term(!;szetrajzi Fiizetek. 



K. k. mahrisch-schlesische Gesellseliaft zur Beforderung des Ackerbaues, der 

 Natnr- uud Landeskuude. Briinn. 



Centralblatt. 



Notizblatt. 



Malacological Society of London. London. 



* Proceedings. 



*Malpighia. Genova. 



Manchester Geological Society. Manchester. 



Transactions. 



Manchester Institute of Arts and Sciences. Manchester. 



Proceedings. 



ISIanchester Literary and Philosophical Society. Manchester. 

 Memoirs and Proceedings. 



Manchester Microscopical Society. Manchester. 



Transactions and Annual Report. 



Marine Biological Association. London. 



* Journal. 



]\Iarlborough College Natural History Society. Marlborough. 

 Report. 



Maryland Academy of Sciences. Baltimore. 

 Transactions. 



Maryland Geological Survey. Baltimore. 

 [Publications.] 



Maryland State Weather Service. Baltimore. 

 [Maryland State Weather Service.] 



Massachusetts Agricultural College. Hatch Experiment Station. Amherst. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin 



Mazama. Portland. 



Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Jeua. 



Zeitscbrift. 



Meehans' Monthly. Philadelphia. 



*Memoires concernant I'Histoire naturelle de I'Empire chinois. 



Mercantile Library Association. New York. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



Meriden Scientific Association. Meriden. 

 Transactions. 



Michigan Academy of Science. Lansing. 

 Report. 




814 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Michigan College of Mines. Houghton. 



Catalogue. 

 Microscopical Bulletin. Philadelphia. 



Royal Microscopical Society. London. 



Journal. 

 Mineral (The) Collector. New York. 

 ♦Mineral (The) Industry. New York. 



Mineral ogical Society. London. 



Mineralogical (The) Magazine and Journal. 



K. mineralogisch-geologisches und praihistorisches Museum. Dresden. 



Mittheilungen. 



*Mineralogische und petrographische Mittheilungen. Wein. 



*Minerva Jahrbuch der gelehrten Welt. Strassburg. 



Minis! ere des Travaux publics [France]. Paris. 

 Annales des Minfes. 

 Etudes des Gitesmin6ranx de la France. 



Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences. Minneapolis. 



Bulletin. 

 Occasional Papers. 



Missouri Botanical Garden. St. Louis. 

 Annual Report. 



*Monitoie zoologico italiano. Firenze. 



*Morphologische Arbeiten. Jena. 



*Morphologisches Jahrbuch. Leipzig. 



Miinchener Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte 

 Miinchen. 

 * Beitrage zur Anthropologie und Urgeschichte Bayerns. 



Musee du Congo. Bruxelles. 



Annales. 



Musee d'Histoire naturelle. Geneve. 



Revue Suisse de Zoologie (Annales). 



Musee d'Histoire naturelle. Lausanne. 

 Rapports Annuels des Conservateurs. 



Musee d'Histoire naturelle. Marseille. 



Annales. 

 Musee royale d'Histoire naturelle de Belgique. Bruxelles. 



Annates. 



Musee Teyler. Haarlem. 



Archives. 



Musei di Zoologia ed Anatomia coraparata della r. Univeisiia. Torino. 

 Bollettino. 



Museo civico di Storia uaturale. Genova. 

 Annali. 



Museo de Hiatoria natural. Valparaiso. 

 Bolctin. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA, 815 



Museo nacional. Bueuos Aires. 

 Anales. 



Comunicaciones. 

 Memoria. 



Museo nacional. Mexico. 



Anales. 



Museo nacional. IMoutevideo. 

 Anales. 



]Museo nacional Republica de Costa Rica. San Jos6. 



Informe. . . . 



Museo de La Plata. La Plata. 



Anales. 

 Revista. 



Museu nacioual. Rio de Janeiro. 

 Revista. 



Museu paraense. Para. 



Boletin. 



Museu paulista. Sao Paulo. 

 Revista. 



Museului de Geologia si de Paleontologia. Bucuresci. 



Museum (The) of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. Brooklyn 

 Science Bulletin. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology. Cambridge. 

 Bulletin. 

 Memoirs. 

 Report. 



Museum francisceum. Briinn. 

 Annales. 



Museum fraucisco carolinium. Liuz. 

 Jahres-Bericht. 



Museum d'Histoire naturelle. Paris. 

 Bulletin. 

 Nouvelles Archives. 



*Museum d'Histoire naturelle des Pays-Bas. Leiden. 



K. Museum fiir Volkerkunde. Berlin. 



* Veroffentlichen. 



*Museums (The) Journal. London. 

 Muskauer Baumschule. Muskau. 



Haupt-Catalog. 



Nassauischer Verein fiir Naturkunde. Wiesbaden. 

 Jahrbiicher. 



National Academy of Sciences. Washington. 



Memoirs. 



*National (The) Geographic Magazine. Washington. 



Naturae Novitates. Berlin. 



Natural History Association of Miramichi. Chatham. 



Natural History Society of G'asgow. Glasgow. 

 Transactions. 




816 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Natural History Society. Moatreal. 

 Canadian Record of Science. 



Natural History Society of British Columbia. Victoria. 



Bulletin. 



Natural History S jciety of New Brunswick. St. John. 

 Bulletin. 



Natural History Society of Northumberlanl, Durham and Newcastle-upon- 

 Tyne. Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 

 Transactions. 



Natural Science Association of Staten Island. New Brighton. 

 Proceedings. 



♦Naturalist (The). London. 



Naturalista (II) siciliano. Palermo. 



Nataraliste (Le). Paris. 



Naturaliste (Le) canalien. Chicoutimi. 



Naturalists' Field Club. Liverpool. 



Proceedings. 



Naturalists' (The) Journal. Haddersfie^d (E. S.). 



Nature. London. 



*Nature (,La). Paris. 



Naturfonschende Gesellschaft. Bambsrg. 

 Bericbt. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Basel. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bern. 

 Mitthellungeu. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Danzig. 



Schriften. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Emden. 



.Tahresberichte. 

 Kleine Schriften. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Freiburg i. B. 

 Berichte. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Gorlitz. 

 Abhandlungen. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Halle. 



Abhandlungen. 

 Bcricht. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Leipzig. 



Sitznngsberichte. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Ziirich. 



Vierteljahrsschrift. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft Graubiindens. Cliur. 

 Jahresbricht. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft des Osterlandes. Altenburg. 

 Mittheilungen ans dem Osterlandes. 




1901,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 817 



Naturforschencler Verein. Briinn. 



* Bericht der meteorologischen Commission. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Natuiforscher Gesellschaft. Dorpat ( Jurjew). 

 Schriften. 

 Sitzungsberichte. 



Natnrforscher Verein. Riga. 

 Arbeiten. 

 Correspondenzblatt. 



Niiturhistoriscb-medicinischcr Vereia. Heidelberg. 



Verhandlungen. 



Naturhistorische Gesellscbaft. Colmar. 

 Mittheilungen (Bulletin). 



Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. Hannover. 



Jahresbericht. 



Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. Ni'irnberg. 

 Abhandlungen. 



Naturhistorischer Verein der preussischen Rheinlande und Westphalens 

 Bonn. 



Verhandlungen. 



Naturhistorisches Museum. Hamburg. 



Mittheilungen. 



Naturhistorisches Museum. Strassburg. 

 Bericht. 



K. k. naturhistorisches Hofmuseum. Wien. 

 Annalen. 



Naturbistoriske Forening. Kjobenhavn. 



Videnskabelige Meddelelser. 



Naturwissenschaftlicbe Gesellschaft. Chemnitz. 



Bericht. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicbe Gesellschaft Isis. Bautzen. 



Sitzungsberichte. 



Naturwissenschaftlicbe Gesellschaft Isis. Dresden. 



Sitzungsberichte und Abhandlungen. 



Naturwissenschaftlicbe Rundshau. Braunschweig. 

 Naturwissenschal'tlicbe Wocbenschrift. Berlin. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Augsburg. 



Bericht. 



Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein. Bremen. 



Abhandlungen. 



Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein. Elberfeld. 

 Jahres-Berichte. 



Naturwissenschafllicher Verein. Frankfurt a. O. 



Helios. 

 Societatum Litterse. 



Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein fiir !-acnsen nnd Thliringen. Halle a. S. 



Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissenschaftcn. 



52 




818 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Hamburg. 



Abhandlimgen. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Karlsruhe. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Kiel. 



Schriften. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Liineburg. 



Jahreshefte. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Magdeburg. 



Jahresbericht and Abhandlungen. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Osnabri'ick. 



Jahresbericht. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Passau. 



Bericht. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Eegensburg. 



Berichte. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Trencsen. 



Jahreshefte. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein an der Universitiit. Wien. 

 Mittheilungen. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein von Neu Vorpommern iind Riigeu. Greifs- 

 wald. 



Jlittheihmgen. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Steiermark. Graz. 



Mittheilungen. 



Natuurkundig Genootschap. Groningen. 



Verslag. 



Natuurkundig Vereeniging in Nederlandsch-Indie. Batavia. 



Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch-Indie. 



Nautilus (The). Philadelphia. 



K. nederlandsch meteorologisch Instituut. Utrecht. 

 Jaarboek. 



Nederlandsche botanische Vereeniging. Nijraegen. 

 Nederlandsch Kruidkundig Archief. 



Nederlandsche dierkundige Vereeniging. Leyden. 



Catalogus der Bibliotheek. 

 Tijdschrift. 



Nederlandsche (De) eutomologische Vereeniging. 'sGravenhage. 



Tijdschrift voor Entomologie. 



*Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Palseontologie. Stuttgart. 



Newberry Library. Chicago. 



Report. 



New England Botanical Club. Boston. 

 * Rhodora. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 819 



New Mexico College of Agriculture. Agricultural Experiment Station. 

 Mesilla Park. 



Annual Reports. 

 Bulletin. 



Newport (The) Natural History Society. Newport. 

 Proceedings. 



New South Wales Department of Mines and Agriculture (Geological Survey 

 of New South Wales). Sydney. 



Annual Report. 



Memoirs. 



Memoirs, Paleontology. 



Mineral Resources. 



Records. 



New York Academy of Sciences. New York. 

 Annals. 

 Memoirs. 

 Transactions. 



New York Agricultural Experiment Station. Geneva. 

 Bulletin. 



New York (The) Botanical Garden. New York. 



Bulletin. 

 ♦Journal. 

 * Memoirs. 



New York Entomological Society. New York. 

 Journal. 



New York Medical Journal. New York. 



New York Microscopical Society. New York. 

 Journal. 



New York State Library. Albany. 

 Bulletin. 



New York State Museum of Natural History. Albany. 



Annual Reports. 

 Bulletin. 



New York Zoological Society. New York. 



Annual Report. 

 News Bulletin. 



New Zealand Institute. Wellington. 

 Transactions. 



Niederrheinische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde. Bonn. 



Sitzungsbericht. 



K. nordiske oldskrift Selskab. Kjobenhavn. 



Memoires. 

 Tillaeg. 



K. norske Videnskabers Selskab. Trondhjem. 



Skrifter. 



North Carolina Geological Surrey. Chapel Hill. 



Bulletin. 

 Economic Papers. 



North Staffordshire Naturalists' Field Club. Stafford. 

 Annual Report and Transactions. 



Northamptonshire Natural History Society and Field Club. Northampton, 



Journal. 




820 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



Northern Indiana Historical Society. South Bend. 

 Publication. 



Xorwegische meteorologische Institut. Kristiania. 

 Jahrbuch. 



Nova Scotian Institute of Science. Halifax. 

 Proceedings and Transactions. 



*Novitates zoologicse. London. 



Novorossiyskoye Obshtchestvo Yestesvoispytateley [Societe des Naturalistes 

 de la Nouvelle Russie]. Odessa. 

 Zapiski (Memoirs). 



Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Montreal. 

 Canadian Antiquarian. 



Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Philadelphia. 



Proceedings * 



Nuovo (La) Notarisia. Pad ova. 



Nuttall Ornithological Club. Cambridge. 

 * Memoirs. 



Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde. Giessen. 

 Bericht. 



Oberlausitzische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Gorlitz. 

 Neues lausitzisches Magazin. 



Oberlin College. Oberlin. 

 Laboratory Bulletin. 



Observatoire de I'Universite. Upsala. 



Bulletin mt'teorologique. 



Observatorio. Madrid. 



Observaciones mcteorologioas. 

 Kesumen de las Observaciones. 



Observatorio. Rio de Janeiro. 



Annuario. 

 Boletin mensal. 



Obshtchestvo liubiteley yestestvoznaniya antiopologii i etuografia sostoy- 

 ashtchiye pri Moskovskom Universitetye. [Imperial Society for 

 Natural History, Anthropology and Ethnography.] 



Izviestiya. 



Ohio State Academy of Science. Columbus. 



Annual Report. 

 Special Paper. 



O. (The) S. U. Naturalist. Columbus. 



*Ornithologische ]\Ionatsberiehte. Berlin. 



Ornilhologischer Verein. Mi'inchen. 

 Jahresbericht. 



Ottawa Field Naturalists' Club. Ottawa. 

 Ottawa Naturalist. 



Ottawa Literary and Scientific Society. Ottawa. 

 Transactions. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 821 



Owens College. Manchester. 



Museum Handbooks. 



Notes from the Manchester Museum. 



Report of the Manchester Museum. 



Studies in Biology from the Biological Departments. 



Psedologisch Jaarboek. Antwerp. 



*Pal8eoutographica, Beitrage zur Nafcargeschichte der Vorzeit. 



*Pala?ontographica Italica, 



*PaljeontographicaI Society. London. 



[Publications.] 



Peabody Institute. Baltimore. 

 Annual Report. 



Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology. Cambridge. 



Annual Reports. 



ArchEeological and Ethnological Papers. 



Memoirs. 



Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture. Harrisburg. 



Annual Report. 



Bulletin. 



Report of Division of Forestry. 



Pennsylvania State Board of Health. Harrisburg. 



Annual Report. 



Pennsylvania State College. State College. 

 Report. 



Pennsylvania Commissioners of Fisheries of the State of Pennsylvania. 

 Harrisburg. 

 Report. 



Pennsylvania Forestry Association. Philadelphia. 



Forest Leaves. 



Pennsylvania Hospital. Philadelphia. 



Report of the Board of Managers to the Contributors. 



Pennsylvania Library Club. Philadelphia. 

 Occasional Papers. 



Perthshire Society of Natural Science. Perth. 

 Proceedings. 



Philadelphia City Institute. Philadelphia. 

 Annual Report. 



Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. Philadelphia. 



Alumni (The) Report. 



Philadelphia (The) Museums. Philadelphia. 

 Scientific Bulletin. 



Philadelphia Mycological Center. Philadelphia. 



Bulletin. 



Philosophical Society. Glasgow. 



Proceedings. 



Philosophical Society of Washington. Washington. 



Bulletin. 



R. Physical Society. Edinburgh. 

 Proceedings. 




822 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Physical Society. London. 

 Proceedings. 



Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. "Wiirzbuig. 

 Sitzungsberichte. 

 Verhandlungeu. 



Pliysikalisch-medicinische Societat. Erlangen. 



Sitzungsberichte. 



Pliysikalischokonomische Gesellschaft. Konigsberg. 



Schriften. 



Pliysikalische central-Observatorium. St. P^tersbourg. 

 Annalen. 



Phjsikaliscber Verein. Frankfurt a. M. 



Jahresbericht. 



Physiographiska Forening. Kristiania. 



Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne. 



*Pittonia. Washington. 



PoUichia. Durkhelm a. d. Haardt. 



Mitteilungen. 



*Popular Science Monthly. New York. 



Portland Society of Natural History. Portland. 



Proceedings. 



K. Preussische geologische Landesanstalt und Bergakademie. Berlin. 



Jalirbuch. 



*Princeton Contributions to Psychology. Princeton. 



Procession (The). Los Angeles. 



Provinciaal utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen 



Utrecht. 



Aanteekeningen. 

 Verslag. 



Psyche, a Journal of Entomology. Cambridge (E. S.). 

 *Public Libraries. Chicago. 



Public Museum of the City of Milwaukee. Milwaukee. 

 Annual Report. 



*Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. London. 



Queckett Microscopical Club. London. 

 Journal. 



Queensland. Home Secretary's Department. Brisbane. 



Korth Queensland Ethnography Bulletin. 



Queensland Museum. Brisbane. 



Annals. 



Annual Report of the Trustees. 



Kay Society. London. 

 * Transactions. 



.*Recueil de Travaux au Laboratoire Boerhaave. Leiden. 



Regias Societas Scientiarum. Upsala. 

 Nova Acta. 



Revista chilena de Historia natural. Valparaiso (E. S. ). 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 823 



*Revue critique de Paleozoologie. Paris. 



*Revue gen^rale de Botatiique. Paris. 



*Revue g^nerale des Sciences. Paris. 



Kevue mycologique. Toulouse. 



Revue des Sciences naturelles de I'Ouest. Paris. 



*Revue scientifique. Paris. 



*Rivista di Mineralogia e Cristallografia italiana. Padova. 



Rivista di Patologia vegetale. Avellino. 



Rochester Academy of Sciences. Rochester. 



Proceedings. 



Roemer Museum. Hildesheim. 



Mittheilungen. 



Rovartani Lapok. Budapest (E. S.). 



Royal Gardens. Kew. 



Bulletin. 



Royal Society. London. 



List. 



Proceedings. 



Kecord (The). 



Reports to the Malaria Committee. 



Transactions. 



Yearbook. 



Royal Society of Canada. 



Proceedings and Transactions. 



Royal Society of Edinburgh. 



Proceedings. 

 Transactions. 



Royal Society of New South Wales. Sydney. 

 Journal and Proceedings. 



Royal Society of Queensland. Brisbane. 

 Proceedings. 



Royal Society of South Australia. Adelaide. 

 Transactions. 



Royal Society of Tasmania. Hobarton. 



Proceedings. 



Royal Society of Victoria. Melbourne. 



Proceedings. 

 Transactions, 



Russisch-kaiserliche mineralogische Gesellschaft. St. Petersburg. 

 Materialien zur Geologie Russlands. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Imp. russkoye geografitcheskoye Obshtchestvo. [Imperial Russian Geo- 

 graphical Society.] St. Petersbourg. 

 Izviestiya (Bulletin). 

 Ottchet (Report). 



K. sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Leipzig. 



Abhandlungen, math-phys. Classe. 

 Berichte. 




824 PROCEEDIl^GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Sallskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fennica. Ilelsingfors. 



Acta. 

 Meddelanden. 



St. Gallische naturwissenschaftliscbe Gesellchaft. St. Gallen. 

 Bericht. 



K. Sammlungen fiir Kunst und Wissenschaft. Dresden. 



Bericht. 



Schlesische Gesellschaft fiir vaterlandische Cultur. Breslau. 



Jahres-Berichte. 



Schweizer alpen Club. Zurich. 

 Alpina. 

 Jahrbuch. 



Sell weizerische entomologische Gesellschaft. ScbafEhausen. 



Mittheilungen (E. S. ). 



Schweizerische paliiontologische Gesellschaft. Geneve. 



» Abhandlungen. 



*Sclenee. New York. 



*Scientia. Lyon. 



Scientific Alliance of New York. New York. 

 Directory. 



Scientific (The) Roll. London. 



Scottish Microscopical Society. Edinburgh. 

 Proceedings. 



Scottish Natural History Society. Edinburgh. 



Transactions (E. S.). 



R. Scuola superiore d'Agricoltura. Portici. 



Annali. 



Sei-i-Kwai, or Society for the Advancement of IVIedical Science in Japan. 

 Tokyo, 



Sei-i-Kwai Medical Journal. 



Senckenbergische naturforschende Gesellschaft. Frankfurt a. M. 



Abhandlungen. 

 Bericht. 



Serbische geologische Gesellschaft. Belgrade. 



Sitzungsberichte. 



Royal Servian Academy. Belgrade. 



Annual Report. 



Memoirs. 



Report. 



Sevcenko-Gesellschaft derWissenschaften. Lemberg. 

 Chronik. 

 Mittheilungen. 



Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de Fomento. Mexico. 



Carta de la Republica Mexicana. 



Section g6oIogique du Cabinet de sa Majestd. St. Petersburg. 

 Travaux. 



Section fiir Naturkunde des oesterreiohischen Touristen Club. Wien. 



Mittheilungen. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 825 



Siebenbiirgischer Verein fiir Naturwissensohaften. Hermannstadt. 

 Verhandlungeii und Mittheiluiigen. 



Sierra Club. San Francisco. 

 Bulletin. 



*Skandinavisches Archiv fi'ir Pbysiologie. Leipzig. 



Smithsonian Institution. Washington. 

 Annual Report. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

 Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 



Sociedad cientifica "Antonio Alzate." Mexico. 

 Memorias. 



Sociedad cientifica argentina. Buenos Aires. 



Anales. 



Sociedad espanola de Historia natural. Madrid. 



Anales. 



Sociedad geografica argentina. Buenos Aires. 



Revista. 



Sociedad de Geografia y Estadistica. Mexico. 

 Boletin. 



Sociedad mexicana de Historia natural. Mexico. 

 La Naturaleza. 



Societa adriatica di Scieuze natural i. Trieste. 

 Bullettino. 



Societa botauica italiana. Firenze. 



Bullettino. 



Memorie. 



Nuovo Giornale botanico italiano. 



Societa entomologica italiana. Firenze. 

 Bullettino. 



Societa geografica italiana. Roma. 



Bollettino. 

 Memorie. 



Societa italiana di Antropologia e la Etnologia. Firenze. 

 Archivio per 1' Antropologia, etc. 



Societa italiana di Scienze naturali. Milano. 

 Atti. 

 Memorie. 



Societa di Letture e Conversazioni scientificbe. Geneva. 



Rivista Ligure. 



Societa ligustica di Scienze naturali e Geografiche. Genova. 



Atti. 



Societa malacologica italiana. Pisa. 

 Bullettino. 



Societa del Naturalisti. Modena. 



Atti. 



Societa dei Naturalisti in Napoli. Xapoli. 



Bullettino. 

 Societa di Scienze nattirali ed economiche. Giornale. 



Giornale. 




826 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DaC, 



Societa degli Spettroscopisti italiana. Koma. 

 Memorie. 



Societa toscana di Scienze natural!. Pisa. 

 Atti. 

 Atti (Memorie). 



Societa veneto treatina di Scienze naturali. Padova. 



Atti. 

 Bullettino. 



Societa zoologica italiana. Roma, 



Bullettino. 



Societas entomologica. Ziirich-Hottingen (E. S.). 



Societas entomologica rossica. St. Petersburg. 

 Horse. 



Societas zoologica Tokyoensis. Tokyo. 

 Annotationes zoologicse Japonensis. 



Societatea geografica romina. Bucharest. 

 Marele Dictionar Geographic al Rominiei. 



Societatii de Sciinte. Bucuresci. 

 Buletinul. 



Societe nationale d'Acclimatation de France. Paris. 



Bulletin. 

 Journal. 



Societe nationale d'Agriculture de France. 



Bulletin. 

 M 4 moires. 



Societe d'Agriculture, Histoire naturelle et Arts. Lyou. 

 Annales. 



Societe nationale d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Angers. 

 M^moires. 



Societe d'Agriculture, Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts. Orle.in<. 

 M(5moires. 



Societe des Americanistes. Paris. 

 Journal. 



Societe d'Anthropologie. Paris. 

 Bulletin et Memoires. 



Soci6te des Antiquaries de Picardie. Amiens. 

 Bulletin. 

 M 6 moires. 



Societe royale beige de Geographie. Bruxelles. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe de Biologic. Paris. 

 Comptes Rendus. 



Societe royale de Botanique. Bruxelles. 

 Bulletin. 



Soci6t6 frauQaise de Botanique. Toulouse. 

 Revue de Botanique. 



Societe bulgare des Sciences naturelles. Sofia. 



Annuaire. 

 Travaux. 




1901.] NATUKAL SCIKJSCiiS OP PHILAJDELf HIA. 827 



Societe euloqiologiquc de Belgique. Bruxelles. 

 Annales. 

 Memoires. 



Societe entoinologique de France. Paris. 

 Annales. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe d'Etude des Sciences naturelles. Beziers. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe d'Etudes scientifiques. Angers. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe roj^ale de Geographic. An vers. 



Bulletin. 

 Memoires. 



Societe de G^ograpliie. Paris. 



Bulletin. 



Compte Rendu des Seances. 



Society beige de Geologic, de Paleontologie et de Hydrologic. Brux- 

 elles. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe geologique de France. Paris. 

 Bulletin. 

 *M6moires. 



Societe geologique du Nord. Lille. 



Annales. 

 M6moires 



Societe geologique de Normandie. Havre. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe d'Histoire uaturelle. Autun. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe d'Histoire naturelle. Macon. 

 Bulletin trimestrial. 



Societe d'Histoire naturelle de Toulouse. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe linneenne. Bordeaux. 

 Actes. 



Societe linneenne. Lyon. 

 Annales. 



Societe linneenne du Nord de la France. Amiens. 



Bulletin. 

 Memoires. 



Societe linneenne de Normandie. Caen. 



Bulletin 

 Memoires. 



Societe royale malacologique de Belgique. 



Annates. 

 Proces-Verbaux. 



Societe beige de Microscopie. Bruxelles. 



Annates. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe franqaise de Mineralogie. Paris. 

 Bulletin. 




828 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Soci^te imperiale des Naturalistes. St. Petersburg. 

 Com pies Rendus. 

 Tnivaux. 

 Trudy (Travaux). 



Societe des Naturalistes de Kiew. 

 Mumoires (Zapiski). 



Society imperiale des Naturalistes. Moscow. 

 Bulletin. 

 Nouveaux Mt5tnoires. 



Societe des Naturalistes a I'Universit^ imperiale. Kharkow. 

 Travaux. 



Societe neuchateloise de Geographie. Neuchatel. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe philomathique. Paris. 



♦Bulletin. 



Societe de Physique et d'Histoire naturelle. Geneve. 

 M6moiies. 



Societe hollandaise des Sciences. Haarlem. 

 Archives. 



Societe royale des Sciences. Liege. 

 Memoires. 



Societe des Sciences. Nancy. 

 Bulletin. 

 Bulletin des Stances. 



Societe des Science, des Arts et des Lettrcs du Hainaut. Mons. 

 Memoires. 



Societe des Sciences de Finlande (Institut meterologique centrale). 

 Helsingfors. 

 Observations. 

 Observations meteorologiques. 



Society des Sciences liistoriques et naturelles de I'Youne. Auxerre. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe des Sciences liistoriques et naturelles de Semur-en-Auxois. 

 S6mur. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe nationale des Sciences naturelles. Cherbourg. 



Memoires. 



Society des Sciences naturelles. Neuchatel. 

 Bulletin. 



Societe des Sciences naturelles et arch^ologiqucs de la Creuse. Gueret. 

 M6moires. 



Societe des Sciences naturelles de I'Ouest de la France. Nantes. 

 Bulletin. 



6oci6te des Sciences physiques et naturelles. Bordeaux. 



Memoires. 



I'roccs-Verbaux des StSances. 



Society scientifique et Station zoologique. Arcaclion. 

 Travaux des Laboratoires. 




1901,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 829 



Societe de Speloologie. Paris. 



♦Bulletin (Speluuca). 

 *M^moires. 



Societe vaudoise des Sciences naturelles. Lausanne. 

 Bulletin. 



Soci^t^ zoologique de France. Paris. 



Bulletin. 

 M6moires. 



Society of Arts. London. 

 Journal. 



Society for Psychical Research. London. 

 Proceedings. 



Somersetshire Archaeological and Natural History Society. Taunton. 

 Proceedings. 



South African Museum. Cape Town. 



Annals. 



Report of Trustees. 



South African Philosophical Society. Cape Town. 

 Transactions. 



South Dakota School of Mines. Rapid City, 

 Bulletin. 



Southport Society of Natural History. Southport. 

 ♦Report. 



State Agricultural College. Agricultural Experiment Station. Fort 

 Collins. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



State Agricultural Experiment Station. Amherst. 

 Annual Reports. 

 Bulletin. 



State Historical Society, Iowa City. 

 Iowa Historical Record. 



State University Laboratories of Natural History. Iowa City. 

 Bulletin. 



Stavanger Museum. Stavauger. 



Aarshefte. 



K. Sternwarte. Miinchen, 

 Neue Annalen. 



Straits Branch of the Ro3'al Asiatic Society. Singapore. 



Journal. 

 Studi Sassaresi. Sassari. 



Svenska Sallskabet for Antropologi och Geografi. Stockholm. 

 Ymer. Tidskrift. 



K. svenska vetenskaps-Akademien. Stockholm. 



Bihang till Handlingar. 



Handiingar. 



Lefnadsteckningar. 



Ofversigt. 



Sveriges geologiska Undersokniug. Stockliolm. 

 Af handlingar och uppsatser. 




830 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. , 



Texas Academy of Science. Austin. 

 Transactions. 



Tliurgauische naturforscliende Gesellscliaft. Frauenfeld. 

 Mitthelluugen. 



Tokyo Botanical Society. Toljyo. 

 Botanical (The) Magazine. 



Torrey Botanical Club. New York. 

 Bulletin. 

 *Memoirs. 

 ♦Torreya. 



Tridentum. Trento. 



Rivista mensile cli Studi scientifici. 



Tromso Museum. Tromso. 



Aarsberetning. 

 Aarshefter. 



*Tropenflanzer (Der). Berlin. 



Tufts College. Tufts College. 

 Tufts College Studies. 



United States Board on Geographic Names. Washington. 

 Report. 



United States Civil Service Commission. Washington. 

 Report. 



United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Washington. 

 Bulletin. 

 Report. 



United States Department of Agriculture. Washington. 



Farmers' Bulletin. 



Report. 



Report of the Secretary. 



Special Report. 



Yearbook. 

 Bureau of Animal Industry. 



Annual Report. 



Bulletin. 



Circular. 

 Division of Agricultural Soils. 



Bulletin. 

 Division of Agrostology. 



Bulletin. 



Circular. 

 Division of Biological Survey. 



Bulletin. , 



Circular. 



North American Fauna. 

 Division of Botany. 



Bulletin. 



Circular. 



Contributions from the U. S. National Herbarium. 



Inventory. 

 Division of Chemistry. 



Bulletin. 

 Division of Forestry. 



Bulletin. 



Circular. 

 Division of Entomology. 



Bibliography of tlie more important contributions to American Economic Ento- 

 mology. 



Bulletin, New Series. 



Circular. 



Technical Series. 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 831 



Divitsion of Publications. 

 List. 



Division oj Vegetable Physiology and Pathology. 



Bulletin. 



Circular. 

 Office of Experiment Stations. 



Bulletin. 



Experiment Station Record. 

 Office of Fibre Invesligalions. 



Report. 

 Office of Road Inquiry. 



Bulletin. 



Circular. 



Ohio Section of the Climate and Crop Service of the Weather Bureau. 



Report. 

 Section of Foreign Markets. 



Bulletin. 



Circular. 



Washington Sectio7i of the Climate and Crop Service of the Weather Bureau. 

 Report. 



United States Department of the Interior. Washington. 

 Bureau of Education. 

 Circular. 

 Reporter the Commissioner of Education. 



United States Geological Survey. 



Annual Report. 



Bulletin. 



Geological Atlas of the United States. 



Mineral Products of the United States. 



Monographs. 



Topographic Map of the United States. 



Water-supply and Irrigation Papers. 



United States Department of State. Washington. 



Consular Reports. 

 Special Consular Reports. 



*United States Government Publications. A Monthly Catalogue. 

 Washington. 



United States National Museum. Washington. 

 Abstracts from the Proceedings. 

 Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 

 Proceedings. 

 Special Bxilletin. 



United States Treasury Department. Washington. 



Annual Report of the Lighthouse Board. 



United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. 



Report. 



Special Publication. 



United States War Department. Washington. 



Annual Report of the Chief of Ordnance. 



Report of Chief ot Engineers, United States Army. 



Index Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office. 



Universidad de La Plata. La Plata. 

 Publicaciones. 



R. Universita degli Studi. Siena. 



BuUettlno del Laboratorio ed Orto Botanico. 



Universite imp^riale. Upsala. 



Observations faites :\ I'observatoire metoorologique. 



Universite catholique. Louvain. 



Annuaire. 



Programme des Cours. 

 [Theses, etc.] 




832 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



University de Lausanne. 



Index bibliograpbique de la Facult(5 des Sciences. 



Universite. Lille. 



Livret de I'Etudiant. 

 Travaux et Memoires. 



Universite. Lyon. 

 Annates. 



Uuiversitetets zoologiske Museum, Kjobenhavn. 

 E Museo Lundii. 



University of California. Be^keleJ^ 



Bulletin of Department of Geology. 

 Register. 



University. Chicago. 

 Annual Register. 



University of Illinois. Champaign. 

 The University Studies. 



University (.The) Geological Survey of Kansas. 



Annual Bulletin of Mineral Resources of Kansas. 

 [Publication.] 



Imperial University of Japan. Tokyo. 

 Calendar. 

 Journal of the College of Science. 



University of Kansas. Lawrence. 



Kansas University Quarterly. 

 Experiment Station, Annual Report. 

 Bulletin of Department of Entomology. 



University of Minnesota. State Experiment Station. Minneapolis. 

 Annual Report of the Entomologist. 

 Bulletin. 



University (The) of Missouri. Columbia. 

 Studies. 



University of Nebraska. Lincoln. 



Bibliographical Contributions from the Library. 

 Agricultural Experiment Station, Bulletin. 



University of New Mexico. Albuquerque. 

 Bulletin [of the Hadley Laboratory]. 



University of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia. 

 Catalogue. 

 . Contributions from the Botanical Laboratory. 

 Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory. 

 University Bulletin. 



University of the State of New York. Albany. 



Annual Report (College Department). 

 Annual Reports of the Regents. 



University of Tennessee. Agricultural Experiment Station. Kuoxville. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



L'niversity of Texas. Austin. 



Contributions from the Zoological Laboratory. 



University of Upsala. Upsala. 

 Bulletin of the Geological Institution. 



University of Wisconsin, Madison. 

 Bulletin 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 838 



University of Wyoming. Laramie. 

 Catalogue. 



*l7atersucliungeii zur Naturlelire des Menscheu und der Thiere. Giessen. 



Vassar Brothers Institute. Pouglikeepsie. 

 Transactions. 



Verein der Aerzte in Steiermark. Graz. 

 Mittheilungen. 



A'erein fiir Erdkunde. Darmstadt. 

 Notlzblatt. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Dresden. 

 Jahresbericht. 



Verein fiir Erdlvuude. Halle a. S. 

 Mittheilungen. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Leipzig. 

 Mittheilungen. 

 Wissenschaftliche Veroftentlichungen. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Metz. 

 Jaliresbericht. 



Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg. Giistrow. 

 Archiv. 



Verein fiir Geschichte und Naturgeschichte der Baar und der angrea 

 zenden Landesteile. Donaueschingen. 

 Schriften. 



Verein fiir Kunde der Natur und der Kunst. Hildesheim. 

 Bericht. 



Verein luxemburger Naturfreunde. Luxemburg. 

 Fauna. 



Verein fiir Natur- und Heilkunde. Presburg. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Kassel. 

 Bericht. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Offenbach am Main. 

 Bericht. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Zwickau. 

 Jahresbericht. 



Verein fiir Naturwissenschaft. Braunschweig. 

 Jahresbericht. 



Verein fiir naturwissenschaftliche Unterhaltung. Hamburg. 

 Verhandlungen. 



Verein fiir siebenbiirgische Landeskunde. Hermannstadt. 



Archiv. 

 Jahresbericht. 



Verein fiir vaterlaudische Naturkunde in Wiirtemberg. Stuttgart. 



Jahreshefte. 



Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftliche Kenntnisse. Wien. 



Schriften. 



53 




834 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [DeC, 



Victoria. Department of Mines (Geological Survey of Victoria). Mel- 

 bourne. 



Monthly Progress Report. 

 [Reports.] 



Victoria Institute of Trinidad. Port of Spain. 

 Proceedings. 



Videnskab-Selskab. Kristiania. 

 Forhandlingar. 

 Ofversigt. 

 Skrifter. (Math.-naturv. Klasse). 



Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station. Blacksburg. 

 Bulletin. 



K. Vitterhets Historic och Antiquitets Akademien. Stockholm. 



Antiquarisk Tidskrift for Sverige. 

 Mduadsblad. 



Vlaamsch Natuur-en Geneeskundig Congres. 

 Handelingen. 



Wagner Free Institute of Science. PhiladelpMa. 



Transactions. 

 Washington Academy of Sciences. Washington. 



Proceedings. 



*Washington (The) Book Chronicle and Bulletin of Government Publi- 

 cations. Washington. 



West (The) American Scientist. San Diego. 



Western Society of Engineers. Chicago. 



Journal. 

 Western University of Pennsylvania. Alleghenj'. 



Catalogue. 

 Westfalischer Provinzial-Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst. Munsfer. 



Jahresbericht. 

 Wiener eutomologische Zeitung. Wien (E.S.). 

 *Wiener illustrirte Garten-Zeituug. Wien. 

 Wilson Ornithological Chapter of the Agassiz Association. Oberlin. 



' Bulletin. 

 Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters. Madison. 



Transactions. 

 Wisconsin Geological and Natural History Survey. Madison. 



Bulletin, 

 llydrographic Maps. 



Wisconsin Natural History Society. Milveaukee. 



Occasional Papers. 



Wyoming Agricultural College and Experiment Station, Laramie. 



Annual Report. 

 Bulletin. 



Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. Wilkesbarre. 



Proceedings and Collections. 

 Yale University. New Haven. 



Catalogue. 

 Report. 



i 




1901.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 835 



Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic Society. Halifax. 

 Proceedings. 



Yorkshire Naturalists' Union. Leeds. 



Transactions. 

 Zeeuwsch Genootschap der Wetenschappen. Middleburg. 



Archief. 



*Zeitschrift fiir Biologic. Miinchen. 



*Zeitschrifl fiir Krystallcgraphie nnd Mineralogie. Leipzig. 



*Zeitschrift fiir Morphologie iind Anthropologic. Stuttgart. 



*Zeitscrift fiir Planzenkraukheiten. Stuttgart. 



*Zcitschrift fiir praktische Geologic. Berlin. 



*Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftlichc Mikroscopie. Leipzig. 



*Zcitschrift fiir wissenschaftlichc Zoologie. Leipzig. 



Zoe. San Diego. 



*Zoologica. Original-Abhaudlungcn aus dem Gesammtgebiete der 

 Zoologie. Stuttgart. 



*Zoological Bulletin. Boston. 



♦Zoological Record. London. 



Zoological Society. Loudon. 



Proceedings. 

 Transactions. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Philadelphia. 

 Annual Report. 



K. k. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Wien. 



Berichte des Comit6s fiir ornithologische Beobachtungsstationen in Oesterreich. 

 Verhandluiigen. 



Zoologisch-zootomisches Institut. Wiirzburg. 



*Arbeiten. 

 *Zoologische (Der) Garten. Frankfurt a. M. 



Zoologische Gesellschaft. Hamburg. 



Bericht. 

 *Zoologische Jahrbiicher. Jena. 



Zoologische Station zu Neapel. Napoli. 

 *Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel. 

 *Zoologischer Jahresbericht. 

 Mittheilungen. 



*Zoologischer Anzeiger. Leipzig. 



K. zoologisches und anthropologisch-ethnographisches Museum. Dres- 

 den. 

 *Abhandlungen und Berichte. 



*Zoologisches Centralblatt. Leipzig. 

 Zoologisches Institut der Universitiit. Wien. 

 *Arbeiten. 



Zoologisches Museum. Berlin. 

 Mittheilungen. 



♦Zoologist (The). London. 




836 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



INDEX TO SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND KEFERRED 

 TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1901. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abastor 82 



erythrogramraus 83 



Acacia farnesiana 559, 561 



sphserocephala 559, 561 



Acanthostepheia malmgreui . . 167 



Acanthozone cuspidata 150 



Acarina 568, 595 



Acarus reticulatus 596 



Acer campestre 358 



dasycarpum 358 



lactum 358 



macrophyllum 358 



platanoides 358 



pseudo-platauus 358 



rubriim 358 



sacchariniim 358 



Acipenser brevirostris 339 



naccarii 838 



Acipenseridse 338 



Acmsea 203 



Heroldi 202 



Heroldi var. signata..202, 398 



Acmaeidse 202, 398 



Acrida nasuta 370 



unguiculata 370 



AcrididsE 370 



Acridinse 370, 376 



Acrocomia sclerocarpa 557 



Acrostegastes afflnis 376 



Acrotylus longipes 372 



Acrydium 376 



Actinocyclus 322 



Ralfsii 323 



Actinoptychus 322 



Adlantum pedatum 560 



^gina echinata 155 



spinifera 154 



^Eginella spiuosissima 154 



^gista niimula 617 



iEschna 127 



-^sculus Hippocastanum . . 356, 358 



I Agaleua longistyliis 576 



ngevia 576 



Agalenidse 576 



Agave sobolifera 559 



Agkistrodon 96 



contortrix 97 



Agria bipunctata 133 



putrida 132 



Agriocnemis femina 139 



Agrion 132, 138 



puella 127 



pulchellum 127 



Agrioniuae 136 



Ailanthiis glandulosa.304, 317, 319 



Alardus caudatus 719, 720 



Alecto eschrichti 179, 180 



Alibrotis littoralis I4S 



Alligator mississippiensis 457 



Aloe vulgaris 559 



Alopia 470 



Alouatta 120 



Alveinus minutus 514 



Alycfeus liarimensis 562 



melanopoma 548, 549 



satsumana 548 



tanegashimse 562 



Alydus eurinus 269 



Amathilla homari 167 



pinguis 152 



Amelauchier 359 



Ammocoetes sepytera 328 



concolor 328 



Ammotrecha peninsulana. .569, 595 



Amnicolidae 405 



Ampelisca eschrichti 167 



Ampelopsis Veitchii. .304, 315, 316 



Amoruum 557 



Amphiardis 43 



inornatus 43 



Amphipteryx 135 



agrioides 135 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



837 



Ampliithopsls megalops 



Amphiuma 



Amphiura liolboli . . 



sundfcvalli 



Ampullaria 



Begini 



Winkleyi 



Anaetrida 



Ananassa sativa 



Anasa 



tristis 



Aaatina impura 208 



japonica 



kamakurana 



Anatinidse 208 



Anax 



Junius 



Ancistrodou 



contortrix 



piscivorus 



Andropogon bicornis. . . . 



fastigiatus 



gracilis 



leucnstachys 



saccharoides 



Anisagrion allopterum.. 



Anisolabis mcesta 



Anomalagrion bastatum 



Anomisma abuorme 



Anonyx affiuis 



ampulla 



bideuticulatus 



lasena 



132 



nugax 



Antedoa celtica 



esclirichti 



quadrata 



Anthermus cephalicus 



Antbropopithecus 110, 



Aaura 2215, 



Anypbaeua 



Apberusa glacialis 



Apblebia algerica 



Apterygida buseina" 



Aranea cancriformis 



corollatus 



extensa 



mactans 



thoracica 



Araneida 



Araneus ciuereus 



vatia 



Area disparilis 210, 



(Scapbarca) nipponensis 

 209, 



Arceutbobium 



Ai'cbilestes grandis 128, 



Arcidaj 209, 



152 



507 

 178 

 178 

 188 

 189 



189 

 296 

 609 

 265 

 267 



, 402 

 208 

 208 



, 402 

 127 

 128 

 96 

 97 

 96 

 558 

 558 

 558 

 558 

 558 

 138 

 278 

 138 

 136 

 167 

 14s 

 147 

 14s 

 148 

 ISO 

 179 

 180 

 376 

 124 

 507 

 574 

 167 

 274 



273 

 582 

 579 

 581 

 579 

 571 

 568 

 587 

 584 

 402 



210 

 559 

 139 

 402 



Arctocebus 121, 122 



Arcturus bafflni 156 



feildeni 156 



Argas saucbezi 596 



Argemone mexicana 560 



Argia agrioides 128, 138, 140 



bipunctulata 138 



pulla 128, 138 



putrida 138 



Argiope aurantia 582 



transversa 581 



Arisa^ma tripbyllum 304, 315 



Aristolocbia arborescens 558 



Arizona elegans 51 



Artocarpus iacisa 557, 560 



Arundo occidentalis 557 



Aspidiura fragrans 8 



Asplenium pellucidum 560 



Assiminea angustata 396 



Astacodes 118 



Asteracantbion albulus 173 



grreulandica 173 



(Pedicellaster) pakeo- 



crystallus 181 



polaris 171 



Asterias bidentata 179 



endeca 175 



grcenlandica 172 



gunueri 172, 181 



militaris 176 



polaris 171, 181 



Astropbyton arclicum 181 



Ateles 120, 124 



Atomarcbus 18 



Atopococblis exaratus 142 



Atractomorpba aurivillii 373 



Attidae 588 



Attus cyaneus 592 



nubilus 589 



octavus 588 



paykuUi 589 



rimator 589 



Atylus cai'inatus 152 



Atys sharpi 183 



Augocblora beatissima 222 



callicbroma 221 



festivaga 223 



nana 222 



Aulocodiscus Janiscbii 321 



mavgaritaceus 321 



Oreganus 321, 322 



Rogersii 321, 322 



Sollittianus 321 



Autodax lugubris 503 



Avicennia officinalis 557 



Baccba clavata 218 



Bacbytrupes membranaeeus . . 382 

 Bacillus gracila 288 




S38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Baiera 606 



Balanus balanoides 146, 167 



crenatus 146, 167 



porcatus 146 



Balea 471 



variegata 470 



T.ambusa vulgaris ~)51, 560 



Bascanion 56 



constrictor 58 



constrictor vetustum 5S 



llaviventris 58 



vetustus 58 



Bascanium flagelliforme 59 



latcrale 61 



laterals lateralo 61 



ornatum 6S 



piceum 61 



Schottii 63 



tseniatum 6S 



toeniatus 62 



tfeniatum subs, ornatum. . 62 



Batis 335 



Bifidaria armigerella var. lu- 



cliuana 484 



Bithynia cliiueDsis 406 



scalaris 406 



striatula 405, 406 



striatula var. japonica . . . 405 



Blatta africana 275 



ferretti 276 



germanica 275 



seuegalensis 274 



Blattidae 274 



Blennidse 326 



Blepharis coruuta 288 



Boerliaavia erecta 558 



Boa contortrix 97 



Boidse 14 



Boophilus annulatus 596 



Borlasia 727 



octoculata 726 



olivacea 726 



Brachyura 117 



Branchinecta paludosa 145 



Bryobia pratensis 596 



Buccinidai 197, 391 



Buccinum Hirasei 391 



Bufo lentiginosus 223 



Buliminopsis turrita 548 



Bulimiuus reinianus "402 



reinianus var. hokkaidoni8 402 



Byblis gaimardi 149 



Cabomba Caroliniaua 321 



Caconeura 140 



dorsalis 137 



Cacosoma 217 



Cadulus 513 



rallianassa 112 



Callianassa conradi 114 



faujasi 114 



mortoni 112-115 



Callinectes 117 



Callinera biirgeri 673, 692, 732 



Calocoris rapidus 264 



Calolampra aptera 276 



Calopteninaj 376 



Caloptery srinaj 133 



Calopteryx 133, 140 



apicalis 131, 133 



Cornelia 131, 134 



maculata 133 



spleudens 127 



virgo 127 



Calyculina 406 



Calyptrophorus 513 



Campylaspis rubicunda 160 



Cancer nugax I48 



whitfieldi 118 



Canna edulis 557 



Cautharidus bisbalteatus. .199, 398 

 (Pliasianotrochus) Hirasei 



199, 398 



japonicus 200 



Canthigaster margaritatus .... 326 



Canthigasteridse 326 



Caprella linearis 155 



lobata 155 



monocera 167 



septentrionalis 155 



spinifera 154 



spinosissima 154 



Capsicum annuum 560 



baccatum 560 



Capsidae 264 



Capulus 513 



americauus 517 



Carcharias melanopterus 325 



Carcliarhinus melanopterus. . . 325 

 Carinella....680, 704, 705, 706, 728 



annulata 670, 673 



linearis 669, 670, 673 



polymorpha 669, 670, 673 



rubicunda 673 



superba 673 



Carinina 680, 727 



grata 673 



Carinoma 673, 680, 692, 732 



armandi 669, 703 



tremapborus 659, 688 



Carpbopbiops 81 



amocnus 81 



vermis 81 



Carpliopbis 81 



amoenus 81 



Carychium cymatoplax 562 



noduliferum 562 



I 




1901.] 



NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



839 



Carychium pessimuni 562 



Catalpa bignonioides 359 



longissima 557 



speciosa 359 



Catantops melanostictus 376 



Cawendia gallse 373 



glabrata 373 



Cecropia peltata 557, 560 



■C'edrela odorata 557 



Celuta SI 



amoena 81 



lielenae 81 



Cemophora 85 



coccinea 85 



C'entrurus carolinianus 594 



Ceuturio 295-300 



flavogularis. .295, 297, 300, 302 



mcmurtrii 296, 297, 302 



mexicanus. . .295, 297, 300, 302 



minor 296, 297, 300, 302 



senex 297, 300, 302 



Centurioninfe 297 



Ceplialothrix 731, 732 



aliena 672, 673 



linearis 659 



Cerasus Padus 359 



serotina 359 



Ceratina maculifrous 216 



viridula 217 



Ceratinella occidentalis 579 



Cerebratulus 676, 706, 721, 724 



lacleus, 659, 674, 682, 712, 722- 

 724 



leidyi 659 



marginatus 705, 718, 724 



Cereus grandifiorus 559 



moniliformis 559 



triangularis 558 



Ceriagrion glabrum 132, 138 



Cerithiidse 392 



Cerithium cbemnitzianuni . . . . 393 



ebeninum 392 



• echinatum 392 



eximium 393 



lineatum 392 



maculosum 392 



mitraeforme 393 



morus 394 



rubus 392, 303 



Cbsetodon triostegus 325 



Chamserops Palmetto 361 



Charina 15 



bottae 15 



brachyops 15 



C helanops grossus 594 



validus 594 



Chelifer degeneratus 594 



scabrisculis 594 



Chilomeniscus 84 



cinctus 85 



ephippicus 85 



stramineus 85 



stramineus cinctus 85 



Chilopoma 18 



Chion 208 



Chionactis 66 



episcopa episcopa 67 



occipitalis 68 



Chiracanthium inclusum 574 



Chiropacha modesta 279 



Chitonidse 203 



Chlcebora gracilis 372 



Chloris barbata 558 



ciliata 558 



cruciata 558 



Chloritis eucharistus, 347, 348, 565 



fragilis, 348, 565, 617 



Hirasei 565 



oscitans 348, 565, 617 



(Trichochlorites) pumila, 617 



Cblorosoma . ". 66 



vernalis 66 



Chlorostoma argyrostoraum . . 202 

 argyrostomum var. basili- 



ratum 202 



Cholcepus Hoff manni 366 



Chordodes morgani 289-292 



puerilis 289-292 



Chrysodomus intersculptus. . . 197 



intersculptus var. frater.. . 197 



391 



pericochlion 391 



Chrysopbyllum cainito . . .557, 560 



Cburchillia bellona 54 



Cicurina arcuata 576 



Cladocera 145 



Clanculus atropurpureus. . .200, 201 



gemmulifer 200, 398 



bizenensis 201, 898 



margaritarius 200 



microdon 201 



microdon var. atcr 200 



Tbomasi 201 



unedo 200 



Claudiconcha 205 



Clausilia 467, 470, 471, 647 



aculus 654 



Addisoni, 502, 638, 639, 641. 

 642, 644, 653 



sethiops 648 



attrita 650 



attrita var. infausta 650 



aulacophora 624, 649, 650 



aulacopoma 656 



aurantiaca 636, 637, 652 




840 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Clausilia aurantiaca var. Er- 



beri 477, G52 



aurantiaca var. hypopty- 



chia 652, G37 



awajiensis, 423, 480, 481, 499, 



500, 623, 625, 626, 049 



Bernardii, 409, 418, 419, 420, 



422, 651 



bigeneris 656 



bilabrata, 499, 629-631, 636, 

 652, 656 

 bilabrata var. ptycholaema, 652 

 brevior, 417, 423, 502, 637, 638, 

 639, 641, 642, 644, 653 

 brevior var, Addisoni .... 641 



buschii 650 



callistochila, 412, 413, 421, 652 



caryostoma 649 



cincticollis 655 



comes 654 



crassilamellata 655 



crenilabium, 418, 419, 420, 422, 

 651 



dalli 656 



decussata 648 



dlffonoptyx 654 



ducalis 615, 648 



ducalis var. dorcas 648 



eastlakeana. 470, 472, 473, 474 



entospira, 501, 637, 644, 645, 



653 



euholostoma, 469, 470, 472, 



473, 654 



eurystoma 637, 653 



eurystoma subs, brachyp- 



ty chia 638, 653 



excelleus, 409, 418, 420, 422. 

 651 



expansilabris 654 



expansilabris vai-. nana. . . 654 

 expansilabris var. stroph- 



ostoma 654 



Fultoni 648 



fultoni subsp. clavula .... 653 



fusauajeusis 650 



gouldii 655 



GracisB 649 



gracilispira 476, 477, 649 



bachijoensis 466, 467, 651 



(Zaptyx) hacliijoensis. . . . 467 



bakonensis 650 



harimcnsis 480, 625, 649 



beteroptyx 649 



hickonis 649 



bigoensis 499, 625 



Hilgendorli 638, 653 



Ilirasei 466, 651 



(Zaptyx) Ilirasei 465 



Clausilia Ilirasei var. kikai- 



ensis 651 



Iliraseana 483, 648 



bolotrema 654 



hokkaidoensis 4S0 



hondana 638, 642 



Hungerfordiana, 468, 469, 470, 

 472, 473, 654 



byperolia 62S, 649 



hyperolia var. aptycliia . . 649 

 byperolia var. planulata. . 649 

 byperolia var. rectaluna.. 649 

 liyperoptvx. .409, 423, 466, 651 

 iscbua . . ^ . .500, 625, 626, 650 



iscbna var. neptis 500 



iguobilis 625, 650, 656 



ijinise 655 



interlamellaris 648 



iotaptyx 475, 636, 651, 656 



iotaptyx var. clava. . . .475, 651 

 ischna var. nei)lis, 625, 626, 650 



Jacobiana 638, 641, 653 



.japomca 637, 639, 653 



japonica var. iuterplicata. 637, 

 653 

 japonica var. pallens. .637, 653 

 japonica var. perobscura, 482, 

 653 

 japonica var. surugaj. .638, 653 



j OS 654 



kobensis 637, 653 



kocliiensis 650 



lirulata 655 



Martensi 648 



Martensi var. Reiniana. , . 648 

 Martensi form tinctilabris . 648 



micropeas 478, 480, 649 



micropeas var. bokkaido- 



ensis 480, 649 



micropeas var. perpallida, 479, 



480, 649 

 mikado.. 475, 629, 636, 651, 656 



mima 412, 417, 652 



Mitsukurii (i48 



monelasmus, 468, 470, 472, 473, 



480, 654 



munus 422, 423, 624, 651 



nesiotbauma. . . . 412, 414, 653 



nikkoensis 638, 653 



nipponensis 637 



nodulifera 655 



Nolani 649 



omiensls 651 



oostoma 638, 653, 65(> 



opeas 649 



ortbatracta 636, 651 



Oscariana....499, 630-632, 652 

 oshimaj 412, 415, 652 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



841 



Clausilia oxycvma...626, 634, 636, 



652 

 perignobilis, 481, 482, 500, 625, 



650 

 perignobilis var. kocliiensis, 



482, 625 



perpallida 479 



pigra (550 



pinguis 655 



pinto. . .501, 624, 627, 645, 651 



platyauchen 623, 650 



platydera....4t.3, 418, 624, 650 

 platydera var. kiiensis. . . .651 



plaiydera var. lambda 650 



plicabilis 636 



plicilabris 499, 500, 652 



plicilabris var. ptycliola?ma 



632 



prseclara 409, 422, 651 



proba 654, 655 



pseudoshimse . . . .412, 416, 652 

 ptychochila, 409, 412, 418, 420, 

 623, 624, 651 

 ptychocyma, 501, 627, 628 

 635, 651 

 ptvcbocyma var. yaku- 



sbimse 501, 629, 651 



Reiniana 64S 



nipponensis 65S 



schmackeri 650 



sericina 649 



sericina var. rhopalia, 624, 



649 



sbanghaiensis 654 



shikokuensis 482, 625, 650 



sieboldi 653 



spreta 655 



Stearnsii, 409, 411, 638, 642, 



643, 653 



stenospira 655 



(Stereophsednsa) stereoma, 



502, 638, 641, 653 

 stereoma var. cognata, 502, 



644, 053 

 stereoma var. nui^ax, 502, 644. 



653 



stimpsoni 655 



strictaluna 650 



strictaluna var. major. . . . 650 



strictaluna var. naua 650 



subaurantiaca . . . .625, 626, 650 



subgibbera 654 



subignobilis 655 



subjaponica 638, 653 



sublunellata, 477, 623, 624, 649 



subulina 649 



subulina var. leucopeas . . .649 

 surugensis . .630, 631, 633, 652 



Clausilia tanegashimas, 500, 628, 

 629, 634, 635, 652 



tantilla 655 



tau 654 



tetraptyx 639, 640, 653 



tosana 649 



Tryoni 466, 467, 654 



una 656 



valida 409, 410, 637, 652 



valida var. fasciata 411, 652 



valida var. perfasciata, 411, 652 

 valida var. striatella 411, 652 



validiuscula 623, 624, 648 



(Reinia) variegata 473, 654 



(Reinia) varietjata var. ne- 



siotica, 467, 472-474, 054 



vasta 648 



viridiflava 648 



yokobamensis 648 



Clausiliidse 465, 499 



Clava 392, 393 



berculea 392 



maculata 392 



rubus 392, 393 



rugata 392 



serratum 393 



Clavilitbes chamberlaini 602 



humerosus var. texanus . . 603 



kennedyanus 602 



longeevus.^ 603 



scalaris 603 



Cleobis peninsulana 595 



Cleonaria gracila 288 



Clenophis 42 



kirtlandi 41, 42 



Clubiona inclusa 574 



Clubionidaa 574 



Coecilia 507 



Coeliccia octogesima 137 



Coelopoma 496 



Coffea arabica 560 



Coluber 44, 45, 51, 52 



abacurus S2 



sestivus 65 



amcenus SI 



arizonse 51 



(Opbis) californiyj '78 



calligaster 80 



catenifer 53-54 



coccineus 85 



confinis 49 



constrictor 5S 



corais , . .... 44 



couperii 44 



doliatus 71 



emoryi 00, 50 



eques 35 



ervthrogrammus SS 




842 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Coluber fasciatus 36 



flagellum 59 



flaviventns 58 



lulvius 95 



getulus 76, 77 



guttatus 46, 50 



guttatus seltatus 11, 46 



itBtus 49 



leberis 33 



lineaticollis 495 



melanoleucus 54, 55 



mutabilis 495 



obaoletus 46, Al, 48 



obsoletus confinis 49, 495 



obsoletus lemniscatus .... 49 



obsoletus lindheimeri 48 



obsoletus obsoletus 47, 48 



parletalis 28 



planiceps 94 



proximus SO 



punctatus 69 



quadrivittatus 46 



rigidus 33 



rosaceous \\, 46 



saurita 19 



sayi 55 



simus 90 



sipedon : 37, 55 



sirtalis .?5, 26 



spiloides .- 49 



striatulus 43 



subocularis 492, 495, 613 



testaceus. 59 



triangulus 73 



triaspis 495 



vernalis 66 



Tulpinus 50 



(Zacholus) zonatup 79 



Colubridae 16 



Colurabella californica ....... 390 



japonica 196 



"luisera 196, 197, 389 



misera var. californica 390 



luisera var. polyny ma .... 390 



polynyma 196 



Columbellidas 196, 389 



Compsosoma 44 



corals couperi 44 



Compsothespis auomala 280 



falcifera 280 



Coniferae 361 



Coniophanes 92 



imperialis 92 



Conocephalus mandibularis . . . 381 



Contia 5>'>, 65, 66, 66 



aestiva 65 



episcopa 67 



episcopa episcopa 67 



Contia episcopa isozona 67 



episcopa torquata 67 



isozona 67 



mitis 68 



occipitale 68 



pygsea 39 



taylori 67 



vernalis 66 



Copepoda 145 



Copera atomaria 137 



Cora inca 136 



marina 136 



Corbicula awajiensis 407 



martensi 407 



sadoensis 406 



Cordia 217 



Cordulegaster annulatus 127 



bidentatus 127 



Cordulia senea 127 



Coreidae 264 



Coriarachne versicolor 584 



Corinna 568 



bicalcarata 575 



Coriscus ferus 267 



Corixa verticalis 261, 262 



Corizus alternatus. . . .261, 267, 268 



annulatus 268 



Cornus Mas 359 



Coronella 68, 70 



amabilis 70 



calligaster 79, 80 



coccinea 74 



doliata 74 



gentilis 73-75 



getula 76-78 



micropholis 75 



punctata 69 



regalis 70 



rhombomaculata 79 



sayi 76 



triangulum 73 



zonata 79 



Corynura aenigma 218 



atromarginata 217 



chapadicola 218, 219 



(Corynuropsis) darwini. . 220 



discolor 217 



jucunda 218, 219 



pseudobaccha 218, 219 



semimarginata 218, 219 



(Corynuropsis) sublata. . . 221 



Corynuropsis 220 



Coscimodiscus 321, 322 



Cosmorhyssa fasciata 372 



C rang on (Sclerocrangon) 



boreas 163 



Crataegus 359 



Cremastogaster lineolata. .432. 536 



I 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPlIlA. 



843 



Creobroter virescens 287 



Ciibrella oculata 174, 180 



sanguinoleata llli. 



Ciinoidea 179 



Crossaster papposus 174 



Crotalinus catenatus 98 



Crotalophorus 97 



catenatus catenatus 99 



censors 99 



censors edwardsii 99 



Edwardsii 99 



Kirtlaudii 99 



miliarius 100 



tcrgeminus 99 



Crotalus 100 



adamanteus 102 



adamanteus adamanteus 



102, 105 



adamanteus atrox 103 



adamanteus scutulatus lOS 



atrox 103 



atrox atrox 103 



atrox ruber 104 



cerastes 107 



confluentus. .103, IO4., 104, 105 

 confluentus confliTentus. . . 104. 



confluentus lecontii 105 



confluentus lucifer 105 



confluentus pulverulentus IO4. 



durissus 102, 106 



horridus 106 



lepidus 107 



lucifer 105 



miliarus 100 



mitchelli 108 



mitchelli mitchelli lOS 



mitchelli pyrrhus 108 



molossus 101 



oregonus 105 



piscivorus 96 



price! 108 



pyrrhus 108 



ruber I04 



scutulatus 103 



terrificus 101 



tigris 107 



Cryptoplacidse 204 



Crvptoplax 204 



Gunnii 204 



japonicus 204 



larvaeformis 204 



rhodoplax 204 



striatus 204 



Ctenidse 586 



Ctenus hibernalis 586 



Cucumaria californica 169 



frondosa 169, 170 



Cucurbita pepo 560 



Cupressus Lawsoniaua 356 



Cyrenida; 406 



Cyclophorus courbeti 349 



fulguratus 349 



Hirasei 348 



jourdyi 349 



turgidus 545 



turgidus var. angulatus . . 549 



Cylindropalaiaa 350 



Cylindrostreus productus 341 



Cyclophis 65 



oestivus 65 



Cyclophoridse 496 



Cymatomera brunneri 380 



hyperborea 380 



modesta 380 



Cymbuliopsis 509, 510 



calceola 509-511 



ovata 509 



vitrea 509, 510, 511 



Cymus luridus 261, 263 



Cymocephalus 119 



Cyprinus maxillingua 339 



Cyrena 406 



Cyrtacanthacris ruflcornis .... 376 



tataricus 376 



Dalatias licha 332 



Dalatiida; 332 



Daphnella fragilis var. articu- 



lata 385 



lymnaeformis 385 



ornata 386 



supercostata 386 



Daphuia rectispina 145 



Dasyatida; 337 



Dasyatis brucco 337 



violacea 338 



Dasybatis asterias 333 



Dasypua novemcinctus 366 



sexcinctus 366 



Datames californica 594 



sulphurea 594 



Datura stramonium 455 



Decticus vittatus 374 



Dendrophthora 559 



cupressoides 559 



gracile 559 



opuntioides 559 



Dendrophycus 605 



Dendryphantcs 589 



octavus 588 



vitis 589 



Dentalium 513 



mississippiense 517 



Dermacentor reticulatus 596 



Derocalymma capucina 276 



erythrenia 276 



Deropeltis autraniaua 275 




844 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Deropeltis schweinfurtlii 275 



wahlbergi 275 



Desmodium axillare 558 



Diadophis 68 



amabilis 70 



amabilis amabilis 70 



amabilis docilis 70 



amabilis pulcbellus 70 



amabilis stictogenys 69, 70 



docilis 70 



pulcbellus 70 



punctatus 69 



regalis 70 



regalis arnyi 70 



regalis regalis 70 



Diastylis goodsiri 159 



rathkei 159 



scorpioides 160 



spinulosa 168 



Dictyna 577 



arundinacoides 577 



sublata 577 



texana ."iOg, 577 



Dictynida) 577 



Dioscorea alata 560 



Diospyrus Virginlana 359 



Diplax 127 



corrupta 128 



Diplommatina 350 



cassa 351, 353 



insularum 351 



kobelti 352 



luchuana 352 



osbimaj 351 



pusilla 350, 353 



saginata 351, 497 



septentrionalis 352 



tanegashim;E 497 



turris 350 



uzenensis 353 



Diplommatinida;' 350 



Dipsas septentrionalis 91 



Disparoneura 132, 140 



analis 137 



collaris 137 



Dittopternis couloniana 372 



Donacidse 207, 400 



Donax Bertini 189 



bipartitus 190 



Erytbraiensis 190 



kiusiuensis 207, 400 



Madagascariensis 190 



Oweni 190 



spiculum 190 



Drassida 571 



Drassodes robustus 509, 573 



Drassus robustus 572 



Drepanopborus 682 



latus 706 



Dromicus 87 



flavilatus 88 



Dryopitbeeus 124 



Dy tbemis sterilis 128 



Ebo mexicana 569, 585 



Ecbinella Cumingi *198 



Cumingi var. lucbuana . . 198, 

 394 



Ecbmoidea 170 



Ecbinus drobachiensis 170 



Ectopbylla 296 



Elapbis 45 



spiloides lf,9 



Elaps 94 



distans 95 



euryxantlius 95 



fulvius 95 



tenere 95 



tristis 95 



Erythrolamprus 92 



Elita somalica 280 



Elodea Canadensis 320 



Emargiuaria 412 



Empusa egena 288 



Enallagma aspersum 132, 188 



cyatbigenim 127 



ebrium 132, 138 



geminatum 132, 138 



Entada scandens 558 



Epacromia tbalassina 371 



Epallage fatime 135 



Epeira aculeata 569, 582 



displicata 582 



fasciata 581 



gemma 583 



labyrinthea 582 



moesta 583 



nephiloides 569, 583 



oaxensis 569, 582 



placida 582 



riparia 5S2 



trifolium 583 



trivittata 58S 



vertebrata 5S2 



Epciridoe 581 



I-Cpidendrum 558 



Eptesicus fuscus 618 



fuscus bernardinus 619 



fuscus osceola 618 



fuscus tyjMcus 619 



peninsular 619 



Eragrostis ciliata 558 



Eremiapbila arabica 276 



aristides 277 



somalica 276 



spec. var. arabicai 27G 



Eremobates 594 



californicus 594 



pallipes 594 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



845 



Erigone perplexa oSO 



pictilis 579 



Erythagrion 128 



salvum 138 



Erythrolamprus imperialis. ... 92 



Erythromma najas 137 



Erylhronium 455 



Esox osseus 34.O 



Euchelus ruber 201 



ruber var. brunnens 201 



Euleptorhamphus 293 



Eugnatha pallida 581 



Eulima dunkeriana 395, 396 



luchuana 396 



nitidula 396 



pliillppiana 395, 396 



Eulimella 895 



Eulimidse 395 



Eulota 547 



(Plectotropis) semula 564 



(iEgista) aperta var. ca- 



vata 564 



(^gista) aperta var. tachy- 



derma 614 



caliginosa 347, 545 



callizoaa var. Dixoni 547 



connivens 465 



(Plectotropis) deflexa. . . . 



563, 564 



(^gista) kobensis 564 



lepidophora var. tenuis. . . 546 



luhuana 545 



luhuana var. uesiotica. . . . 614 

 (Euhadra) luhuana var. 



pacbya 614 



mercatoria 347 



mercatoria var. dgemorum 545 



f -^gista) mimuloides 617 



(Plectotropis) omiensis. . . 545 



(Euhadra) oshimse 346 



(Plectotropis) pannosa . . 563 



Sargentiana . . 193 



(Plectotropis) shikokuen- 



sis 545 



sieboldiana 545 



succincta 194 



succincta var. amblytro- 



pis 193 



trochula 563 



vulgivaga * 563 



Eupagurus pubescens 165 



Euphaea 131, 140 



impar 135 



lara 135 



ochracea 135 



variegata 135 



Euphsedusa 410, 466, 467, 468. 471, 

 473, 474, 647, 654 



Eupolia 674, 676, 702 



Euryopis funebris 579 



Eurypchna steindachneri .... 570 



Euryphymus 378 



erythropus 378 



Eusirus cuspidatus 167 



Eutnsnia 11,18 



brachystoma 26 



butleri 26 



couchii 24 



cyrtopsis 25 



c. ocellata 25 



elegans 22 



e. biscutata 23 



e. brunuea 23 



e. couchi 24 



e. elegans 23 



e. lineolata 23 



e. Marciana 24 



e. ordinoides 2S 



e. plulonia 23 



e. vagrans 23 



eques 25 



Faireyi 20 



iiammondii 24 



iufernalis infernalis 2S 



insigniarum 21 



macrostemma 21 



megalops 21 



m. megalops 21 



nigrolateris 24. 



Pickeringii 29 



proxima 20 



radix 20 



sackeni 20 



saurita 19 



sirtalis 25 



s. concinna 28 



s. dorsalis 2S 



s. graminea 26 



s. obscura 26, 28 



s. parietalis 28 



s. pickeringi 29 



s. semifasciata 26 



s. sirtalis 26 



s. tetratsenia 28 



s. trilineata 29 



Euterpe oleracea 557 



Euthemisto libellula 147 



Euthore hyalina 131, 136 



Euthria fuscolabiata 389 



hokkaidonis 389 



Evermanella 211 



atrata 212 



balbo 211 



Evermannellidae 211 



Evermannia 211 



Exochoderes aurantiacus 376 




846 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Exoccetidse 293 



Eyprepocnemis charjientieri. . 378 



guineensis 378 



herbaceus 377 



somalicus 376 



Farancia 82 



abacura 82 



Fasciolaria gigantea 552 



gigantea subsp. recvci . . . 552 



princeps 552 



reevei 552 



Fasciolariidse 197, 390 



Ficimia 84 



cana 84 



Filistata hibernalis 570 



Filistatidae 570 



Fischeria sp 284 



Fodiator acutus 293 



Forficesila moesta 273 



Forficulidae 273 



Formica fusca 420, 440 



sanguiuea 440 



Fossarus ambiguus 190 



capensis 190 



pusillus 190 



Fragaria vesca 560 



Fraxinus Americana ooG, 361 



sambucifolia 361 



Fuentes 568 



pertinax 591 



vittata 590 



Galago 121 



Galeodes pallipes 594. 



Galeorhinus galeus 332 



Galeidaj 325, 330 



Galeus cauis 332 



Melastomus 329 



mento 331 



mustelus 330 



Gamarus locusta 153 



Gammaracanthus loricatns . . . 153 



Gammarus loricatus 153 



pinguis 152 



Ganesella 547 



Adelina; 546 



cristata 566 



fausta 546 



japonica 540, 566, 567 



japouica var. carinata. . . . 567 



japonica granulosa 567 



japonica var. granulosa. . 567 



Largillierti 546, 547 



pagodula 546 



selasia 566 



tanegashiuiic var. dulcis. . 565 



Gasteracantha cancriformis. . . 582 



Gastrimargus marmoratu? .... 371 



verticalis 371 



Gastrodonta ligera 346 



Gayenna marginalis 574 



Georgia 4i 



couperii 44 



obsoleta 44 



Glaucoiiia 13 



dissectu 13 



dulcis 13 



humilis 14 



GlauconiidiE 13 



Gleditschia 358 



Glyptonotus 168 



Gnapliosa conspersa 569, 572 



distincta 569, 572 



hirsutipes 573 



Gomphus 127 



Gordius 719 



fasciatus spinifer 720 



fragilis spinifer 720 



purpureus spinifer 720 



viridis spinifer 720 



Gorilla 119 



Grammonota pictilis 569, 579 



Graphephorum melicoidis 8 



Gryllidse 381 



Gryllotalpa africana 381 



Gryllus ater 382 



erythropus 37S 



fasciatus 372 



marmoratus 371 



membranaceus 382 



(Locusta) morbillosus. . . . S74 



(Acrida) nasuta 370 



pelluceus 382 



ruficornis 376 



sp 382 



(Locusta) tataricum S76 



(Locusta) thielepbora. . . .' 375 



tbalassinus 371 



Guaiacum oflBcinale 561 



Gyalopium 84. 



canum 84 



Gynandropsis pentaphylla. ... 560 



Habrocestum birsutum 591 



oregonense 569, 591 



Hsematoxvlon campecbianum. 557 



Ilaldea..: 43 



striatula 43 



Halesia diptera 359 



Mechani .' ■ 359 



tetraoptera 359 



Halirages fulvocinctus 151 



Ilamalatiwa grisea 588 



Haminea natalensis 182 



succinea var. solidior 182 



zanzibarica 182 



zelandiae 182 



Haploops tubicola 167 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELnilA. 



847 



Haploparia gladiator IIG 



Harmostes 269 



reflexulus 361, 368 



Helcioniscus 303 



eucosmius 303 



Helicidaj 193, 403 



Helicina verecunda 497 



yseyamensis 497 



Helicinidse 497 



Heliconia 557 



bihai 557 



psittacorum 557 



Helicops 40 



alleni 40, 40 



Helix patruelis 567 



tabuensis 567 



Hemiexoccetus 293 



caudimaculatus 294 



Hemiphaedusa, 410, 413, 418, 474, 



475, 476, 499, 500, 501, 502, 



623, 625, 629, 648, 655 



Hemiphlebia mirabilis . . . .132, 139 



Hemiptera 261-269 



Hemiramphidge 293 



Hemiramplins 293 



Herpetogomphus elaps 128 



Herpyllus atra 571 



Hetaerina 131, 139, 140 



americana 128, 134, 135 



cruentata 134 



occisa 134 



titia 134 



vulnerata 134 



Heteragrion 131, 139, 140 



chr^sops 137 



erythrogastrum 136 



inca 137 



Heterodon 88 



atmodes S9 



cognatus S9 



nasicus 90 



nasicus kennerlyi 90 



nasicus nasicus 90 



niger 89 



platyrhinus 88, 88 



simus 90 



Heterogamia africana 275 



sp 375 



Heterotypus africanus 383 



Hetrodes horridus 381 



Hibiscus borealis 163 



esculentus 560 



sabdariflEa 560 



trilobus 560 



Hippolyte gaimardi 162 



grcBnlandica 162 



phippsi 161 



polaris 163 



Hippolyte sowerbyi 161 



Ho.ocentridce 335 



Holoceutruni microstomus . ■ . . 325 



Holocentrus microstomus 325 



Holothuria frondosa 169 



Holothuroidea 169 



Homalocranium 92 



coronatum 93 



planiceps 93 



Homalattus cyaneus 592 



Homolophus biceps 593 



Hoplocorypha bottegi 284 



rapax • • • 284 



Hoplonyx cicada - - . 167 



Hoploparia gabbi 115, 117 



Hubrechtia. .673, 692, 727, 738, 731 



Hyas araneus 165 



Hyla andersonii 342 



Hylobates 119 



Hyperia galba 147 



Hypogeophis 507 



Hyponeura lugens 132, 138 



Hyporhamphus 293 



Hypsiglena 87 



cliloropbaja 87 



ocbrorhyncha 57, 87 



texana 87 



Ichthyomyson coucolor 328 



Ichthyophis 507 



Icius neomexicauus 5189 



peckhamse 590 



piraticus 590 



similis 569,590 



Idolomorpha dentifrons 388 



Ilex Aquifolium 357 



obcordata 557 



opaca . . ■ 357 



Indris 131, 133 



Indrodon 133 



Ischnognatlius U, 4^ 



dekayi 4^ 



kirtlandi 4^ 



liueatus 43 



occipitomaculatus 4^ 



Ischnomantis media 284 



spinigera 384 



Ischnopoda reyi 288 



Ischnoptera picea 375 



Ischuura elegans 137 



heterosticta 133, 138 



Ramburii var. credula.138, 138 



verticalis 139 



Ischyrocerus anguipes 154 



Ixodes annulatus 596 



bo vis 596 



diversifossus 596 



Janthe bovallii 158 



erostrata 158, 159 




848 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Junthe laciniata 159 



libbeyi 159 



spinosa 158 



triangulata 159 



Juglans 360 



Juniper 454 



Kaliella borealis 346 



crenulata 404 



fraterna 404 



harimensis 404, 548 



kyotoensis .... 548 



]ioderma 404 



modesta ... 548 



multivolvis 404 



nahaensis 548 



nahaensis var. kunchana. 548 



nanodes 548 



pagoduloides 404, 548 



prsealta 547 



ruida 404 



subcrenulata 404 



Koelreuteria 358 



Labidura 273 



Lselaps 596 



Lseviraja 335 



Laguncularia racemosa 557 



Lamprocystis spadix var. ciuc- 



tus 194 



Lampropeltis annulatus 75 



boylii 78 



californise 78 



multistriatus 75 



rhombomaculatus 79 



zonatus 79 



Lamprosoma episcopum 67 



Lan gia 724 



formosa 682 



Lapparia 513 



Larrea 589, 592 



Lasius interjectus 596 



umbratus 432 



Lathrodectus mactans 579 



Laurus Sassafras 359 



Lepidium virginicum 560 



Lepidosteus bison 340 



crassus 340 



osseus 340 



otarius 341 



platostomiis 341 



Lepidurus glacialis 145 



Lepisosleidae 340 



Leptagrion macrurum ....132, 139 



Leptobasis vacillans 132, 139 



Leptocnemis bilineata 137 



Leptodira 91 



septentrionalis 91 



Leptophis 65 



sestivns 65 



Leptophis lateralis 61 



majalis 65 



tifiuiatus 62 



Leptopterna dolobrata 264 



Leptothyra rubra 398 



rubra var. laevicostata . . . 398 



sy nguinea 398 



Leptotyphlops dulcis 13 



Lestes 127, 140 



disjunctus 132, 139 



leda 132, 139 



tenuatus 128, 139 



vigilax 139 



virens 127 



Lethia trivitatta 577 



Libellago caligata 131, 135 



curta 131, 135 



Libellula 126, 127 



Lichanura 14 



orcutti 14. 



roseofusca 14 



trivirgata I4 



Ligaria producta 281 



trigonalis 281 



Lima Dunkeri 209 



bians 402 



hians var. birasei 402 



Hirasei 209 



orientalis 209 



Limidse 209, 402 



Limnaea palustris 182 



Lineus 721 



geniculatus 674 



gesserensis 726 



lacteus 674 



sanguineus 726 



Linypliia communis 580 



pbrygiana 580 



Liobunum townseudi 593 



Liodytes 40 



allenii 4(^ 



Liopeltis 66 



vernalis 66 



Liophis 87 



flavilatus 88 



Liquidamber styraciflua 361 



Liriodendron tulipifera, 304, 309 

 -312, 319, 356 



Lithurgus atratus 210 



corumbse 216 



rufipes 216 



Lithyphantes corollatus 579 



fulvus 569, 579 



Littorinidse 198, 394 



Lobelia Canbyi 8 



Locusta 371 



mandibularis S81 



Lodia 66 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



849 



Lodia tenuis 6S 



Loris 121 



Loxosceles unicolor 571 



Luchiiphsedusa, 410, 411, 433, C47, 



653 



callistocbila 656 



Luciua cumingii 184, 185 



(Divaricella) dalliana 184 



deutata 184, 185 



(Divaricella) huttoniaua . 184 



liuttouiana 184 



quadrisulcata 184, 185 



Lycopersicum esculeutum. . . . 560 



Lycosa babiugtoni 556' 



carolinieusis 586 



coloradensis 586 



concinna 587 



glacialis 5S7 



iiellus 586 



luodesta 569, 586 



uidcola 586 



sternalis 587 



Lycosidoe 586 



Lygaeidaj 364 



Lygus prateusis 361, 363, 264 



Lyria costata 513 



L^'sianessa appeudiculata 14S 



bidenticulatus I47 



lagena 148 



nugax 147 



Lj'torbyncbus 64 



brown! 64 



decurtatus 64 



Macacus 119, 134 



Machoeridia bilineata 370 



Madura tinctoria 557 



Macroclilamys Doenitzi 498 



dulcis ..'. 562 



Gudei 345 



perfragilis 345, 563 



, tanegasbimae 498 



Macrostoma bystrix 718 



Magnolia acuminata. .357, 363, 363 



couspicua 357 



Fraseri 357 



macropbylla 357 



tripetela 357 



Mammillaria simples 559 



Mandarina mandariua var. 



ponderosa 402 



Mangifera iudica 560 



Manis 366 



Mantidae 376 



Mantis fenestrata 384 



sacra 384 



undata 3"*7 



Marptusa californica 589 



Masticopbis 56 



54 



Masticopbis flagelliformis 59 



ornatus 62 



Scbottii 62 



tajniatus 62 



Mecistogaster 140 



modestus 136 



ornatus 136 



Meclvclia annulata 733 



aurautiaca 733 



Knerii 719, 733 



Megalopbtedusa, 410, 483, 639, 647, 



648 



Megapodagrion veuale 136 



Megaloprepus 136 



Melita dentata 153 



Melocactus communis 559 



Meuispermum canadense, 304, 313 



Meriola 568 



inornata 574 



Micaria albocincta 573 



Micratbyria Hageni 138 



Micrella ruta 688, 731 



Microcebus 131 



Microcystiua ceratodes 498 



Hiraseana 498 



Micromerus 131 



lineatus 135 



obscurus 135 



Microueta soltaui 581 



Microps lineatus 4^ 



Microstigma anomalum 136 



rotundatum 136 



Micrura 673, 677, 731, 734 



alaslvensis 668, 670, 738 



C3eca,659, 668, 670, 734, 738, 731 



fasciolata 719, 730 



purpurea 718, 734 



Mimosa pudica 560 



Miomantis fenestrata 3S4 



sp 384 



Misumena 584 



oblonga 584 



vatia 584 



Mitopus biceps 593 



Mitra analogica 387 



collinsoui 387 



fuscoapicata 387 



gotoensis 387 



(Costellaria) bizenensis . . 386 

 (Costellaria) vauattai .... 387 



semisculpta 387 



Mitridae 386 



Mnais strigata 134 



Momordica cbarantia 560 



Monoculodes borealis 149 



Morus alba 359 



Munnopsis typica 159 



Murex 393 




850 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Muricidae 387 



Musa coccinea 557 



Bapientum 557, 560 



Mustelus equetris 330 



mento 331 



Myctophum pliengodes 620 



remiger 620 



Myodocba serripes 267 



Myriophyllum spicatum 321 



Myriotrochus rinkii 170 



Mysis oculata 160 



Myzostoma 737 



Nabis annulatus 261, 264 



Narcobatidse 336 



Natrix 32 



clarkii 33 



compressicauda S4. 



c. bivittata 35 



c. compsolaema 35 



c. tajniata 35 



c. walkerii 35 



fasciata erytbrogaster 36 



f. fasciata 36 



f. pictieveutris 36 



f. pleuralis 36 



f. sipedon 37 



grabamii 33 



Icberis 32 



rbombifera 38 



rigida 33 



taxispilotus 3i) 



iista 35 



Nauphoeta gestrianu 276 



Nebalia bipes 14(j 



Nectocrangon lar 164 



Negundo 358 



Nebaleunia lais 133, 138 



Nemertes 719 



Neobeliscus 142 



Neobela monstrosa 167 



Neoneura 132, 137 



Nerita helicinoides var. losvi- 



labris 397 



helicinoides var. tristis . . . 397 



niarlensiana 397 



striata 397 



Neritidae 397 



Nerodia 32 



compressicauda 34. 



erytbrogaster 36 



fasciata 36 



fasciata transversa 37 



Ilolbrookii 38 



rbonibifer 38 



sipedon 37 



taxispilotus 39 



transversa 37 



Woodbousii 37 



Nomioides 223 



Nopalea coccinellifera 559 



Nycticebus 121 



jSTymphon grossipes 166 



hirtipes 166 



liirtum 166 



longitarse 165 



robustum 168 



serratum 166 



stroemi 168 



Nyssa 359 



Ocbropblebia subcylindrica. . . 873 



Odonata 126 



Odondostomus 211, 212 



Odontostomus 211 



atratus 212 



balbo 211 



hyaliuus 211 



CEcantbus pelluceus 382 



(Edaleus instillatus 372 



verticalis 371 



(Edancala dorsalis 269 



Gi^dipoda galinieri 372 



longipes 37S 



migraloroides 372 



(Edipodinse 371 



(Edogonium. 598-601 



Olios abuormis 586 



concolor 586 



fasciculatus 569, 585 



giganteus 585 



Omosudis 212 



lowii 212, 212 



Ompbalotropis japonicus 405 



OnclostomidiE 211 



Onesimus edwardsi 148 



Ouitbocbiton 204 



Hirasei 203 



Opbiacantba bidentata 178 



spinulosa 179 



Opbiocoma ecbinulata 179 



Ophibolus 70 



alternus 612 



Boylii 78 



calligaster 80 



clericus 72 



doliatus 71, 7^, 94 



d. annulatus 75 



d. clericus 72 



d. coccineus 74 



d. doliatus 73 



d. gentilis 75 



d. parallelus 73 



d. syspilus 73, 75 



d. temporalis 72 



d. triangulus 72 



eximius 72 



2;entilis 75 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



851 



Ophiocoma getulus 76, 77 



g. boylii 78 



g. californine 78 



g. getulus 77 



g. sayi 76 



g- niger 77 



g. splendidus 7G 



leonis 613 



multistratus 7^, 75 



pyrrhoraelas 79, 613 



rhombomaculalus 79 



sayi 76 



splendidus 76 



zonatus 79, 613 



Ophiocten kroyeri 177 



sericeum 177 



Ophioglypha robusta 176 



sarsii 176 



struwitzii 181 



Ophiolepis fasciculata 177 



robusta 176 



sundevalli 17S 



Ophiopholis aculeata 178, 181 



bellis 17S 



Ophiura fragilis 179 



sarsii 176 



sericea 177 



squamosa 176 



Ophiuroidea 176 



Opuutia spiuossissima 559 



tuua 559 



Orbitoides 516 



mantelli 514-518 



Orchomenella iiiinuta 167 



Oreodoxa oleracea 557 



Ortbemis ferru^iiiea 128 



Orthetrum ''. 127 



( )rycturopus 366 



Osceola 70 



annulatus 75 



doliata triangula 73 



elapsoidea 74 



syspilus 75 



Ostracoda 145 



Oxyliaboa ferretti 276 



Oxyopes 568 



pictipes 587 



Oxyopbthalma gracila 286 



()xyopida3 587 



Oxypila annulata 286 



Pacbylomerus 568 



modestus 570 



Pacbytylus migratoroides .... 372 



Paliana 350 



Pallene discoidea 166 



hispida 106 



Palophus reyi 288 



Paludina 188 



Pampbaginai 375 



Pandalus borealis 161 



Panicum colonum 558 



birsutum 558 



maximum 558 



Panopeus 2 



Pantala hymensea 128 



Papillina 513 



Papio 124 



Paradulichia typica 154 



Parampliitboe bicuspis 150 



megalops 152 



Paraphlebia 131, 133, 136 



Parapolia aurantiaca 688 



Paraspbeudale minor 285 



Paratylus smitti 167 



Paroedicerus lynceus 149 



Pardosa glacialis 569, 587 



luteola 5S7 



sterualis 587 



Parnasnus griseus 588 



Paspalum disticbum 558 



paniculatum 558 



platycaule 558 



virgalum 558 



Passitlora coerulea. 557 



laurifolia 558 



perfoliata 558 



Patella grata 202 



luchuana 202 



pallida 202 



Patellidte 202 



Pecten poulsoni 514-517 



Pellenes birgei 592 



cockerelli 591, 591 



coguatus 592 



birsutum 591 



klauserii 593 



oregonense 591 



politus 592 



Penicillium crustaceum 541 



Pentadactylogascer oculatus.. 174 



Pentatomidge 264 



Pereskia aculeata 559 



Periplaneta atricolli.s 275 



wablbergi S75 



Peristernia crocea 390 



infracincta 197 



scabrosa 390, 391 



ustulata 198 



ustulata var. Ir.cbuana 197, 390 



xantbostoma 390 



Perodicticus 121, 122 



Persea gratissima 560 



Petasia grisea 375 



sp 375 



Petricola cyclus 204, 205, 400 



cj'clus var. sculpt urata . . . 400 




852 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Petricola litbophaga 205 



monslrosa 205 



sculpturata 205 



typica 400 



Petricolaria 205 



sequistriata 205 



Petricolidae 204, 400 



Phfedusa 470. 471 



Phgeophyllacris abyssiaica 382 



Phalangida 568, 593 



Phalanginm cinereum 509, 593 



Pliaou fuliginosus 131, 134 



iridipeunis 131, 134 



Phasianella 199 



Phasianotrochus 199 



Phasmidse 288 



Phenacisma peltata 276 



Pherusa tricuspis 151 



Phidippus ardens 588 



auctus 589 



bicolor 569, 588 



californicus 588 



comatus 588 



opifex 588 



tyrelli 588 



Philseus rimator 589 



Philodendron lacerum 558 



Philodromus alaskensis 585 



iuquisitor 585 



spectabilis 585 



Philogenia 140 



Berenice 136 



Cassandra 136 



Phimothyra decurtata Gif 



hexalepis 63 



Phlceoba antennata 371 



mossambicensis 371 



Pholcidic 571 



Pholcus cornutus 571 



gibbosus 571 



globosus 571 



Phoradendron berterianuni. . . 559 



flavescens 559 



rubrum 559 



schottii 559 



Plirurolitlius 576 



Phyllorhyncbus 64 



brow ni 64 



decurtatus 64 



hyllostomatidse 297 



^ hymatens aegrotus 374 



morbillosus 374 



sp 375 



Phymatidae 264 



Physocyclus globosus 569, 571 



Pilidium auriculatum 720 



gyrans 720 



Pinus exceha 357 



Pinns flexilis var. Murravana. 355 



Pinea " 361 



pungens 361 



Pisidium 406 



Pistia stratiotes 557 



Pituophis 52 



belloua 55 



catenifer 53 



melanoleucns 55 



Wilkesii 53 



Pityophis 52, 495 



annectens 53 



bellona 5J^ 



catenifer 52 



c. bellona 54 



c. catenifer 53 



c. deserticola 5U 



0. sayi 55 



McClellanii 55 



melanoleucns 55 



sayi 55 



s. bellona 5/^ 



s. sayi 55 



vertebralis 495 



Planaria filaris 722 



Platanus occideutalis 360 



orientalis 360 



Platycnemis 131, 137 



pennipes 127 



Platyrhina triseriata 333 



Platyrhinoides triseriatus 333 



Plectrotropis 844 



Plethodon 507, 508 



cinerens 503-508 



PleurotomidiB 385 



Pleustes panoplus 150 



Plexippus paykulli 589 



Pliopitbecus 124 



Podagrion 131, 136 



Podophyllum peltatum 304 



Pcecilocapsus goniphorus 264 



lineatus 264 



Pcecilocerus aegrota 37 ^ 



vittatus 374 



PcEcilochroa montaua 569. 572 



Polypodium aureum 558 



Ponera coarctata 432, 440 



Pontogeneia inermis 151 



Popa undata 287 



Pornotrips horridus 381 



Potamides 392 



Pristiurus 329 



melastomus 330 



Procyon lotor 596 



Prosadenoporus 682 



Prosopis 561 



juliflora 559 



Prosthesima atra 571 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 



853 



Prosthesiraa blanda 572 



cockerelli 571 



Protenor 269 



belfragei •• 269 



Protoneura 131, 133, 137 



aurantiaca 137 



Psammobatis brevicaudatus . . 336 



Pseudalibrouis littoralis 148 



Pseudocreobotra amarsE 286 



wahlbergii 286 



Pseudoharpax virescens 287 



Pseudoleon siiperbus 128 



Pseudoliva 513 



Pseudonenia 647, 653 



Pseudopallene discoidea 166 



hispida ■ • • • ^^^ 



Pseudoscorpionida 568, 594 



Pseudostigma 131, 140 



aberrans 136 



Psidium guajava 560 



Psilochorus pnllulus 571 



Pteraster militaris 1*76 



Pterois radiata 326 



Pteromyzonidts 328 



Pterophyllum 606 



Punica granatum .... 560 



Pupid^ 402,465,484 



Pupinella fruhstorferi 349, 350 



Funatoi 497 



oshimce 349 



rufa ..• 349, 350, 497 



rufa var. tanegashima 497 



tsushimana 349, 350 



Purpura 388 



alveolata 388 



browni 388 



clavigera 3S8 



luteostoma 388 



saxicola •_ • • 388 



tumulosavar. problematica 388 



Pycnodictya galinieri 372 



Pycnogonida 165 



Pyramidellidse 394 



Pyrazus baudini 392 



Pyrgomorphina; 373 



Pyrrhosoma minium 127, 138 



tenellum 127,132,138 



Pyrus 358 



Quercus alba 804, 313, 314, 360 



bicolor 360 



Cerris 360 



coccinea 360, 363 



dentata 360 



lyrata 360 



macrocarpa 360 



palustris 360, 363 



Phellos 360 



pinus palustris 304 



Quercus Priuos 360 



Robur 360 



rubra ^«" 



tinctoria ^^ 



Rachotropis aculeata 151 



Raja circularis 335 



miraletus 3d4 



oxyrinclius 335 



punctata 333 



quadrimaculata 334 



radula i 335 



stellulata 336 



R-yidai 333 



Rana temporaria -i^* 



Realiidfe 405 



Reduviidse 264 



Regina ^^ 



^Clarkii 33 



Grahamii 33 



kirtlandii 4^ 



leberis 32 



rigida 33 



Reinia. 410, 470, 471, 647, 654 



Rena ^3 



dulcis ^3 



humilis ^4 



Rhadinea 8^ 



flavilata ^^ 



Rliinechis 51 



elegans 51 



Rbiuobatidse 333 



Rbinobatis columnie 333 



Rbinochihis 86 



lecoutii 86 



Rhiuocypha biseriata 135 



Pageusteclieri 135 



Rhinostoma ^^ 



coccinea "55 



occipitale 68 



Rhipsalis cassytba 558 



Rhizopbora mangle 556 



Rbyncholophus 595 



simplex 595 



Rbyzopus nigricans 542 



Robinia 358 



Rupellaria 205 



Sabinea septemcarinata 165 



Sadala distincta 569, 589 



Sagittaria lancifolia 557 



Salamandra maculosa 'f/)8 



Salarias perioptbalmus J^~6 



Salix caprea 365 



Japonica 361, 364 



Salvadora 63 



grahami 63 



grabami bexalepis 63 



Saneuinaria canadensis. . .306-308, 

 ^ 319 




854 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Sapho ciliata 134, 139 



oriclialcea 134, 139 



Sassacus popenoei 592 



Sauracris lacerta 376 



ScaridsE 325 



Scarus 325 



Schwartzia tomentosa 557 



Scirpus Smithii 8 



Sclerobimus robustus 593 



Scobinella coelata 518 



Scopelus Balbo Sll 



phengodes 620 



Scorptenidse 326 



Scorpio carolinianus 594 



Scorpionida 568, 594 



Scotoletaon robustus 593 



Scotophis 45 



allegheniensis 47 



coniinis 4^ 



emoryi 50 



guttatus 4^ 



laetus 49 



Lindheimerii 48 



quadrivittatus 4^ 



vulpiuus 50 



Scylliorhinidaj 329 



Scyllium melanostomum 329 



Scymnorlimus 332 



Scymnus 333 



Scytodidfe 571 



Semiuatrix 39 



Pyg«a 39 



Semnopithecus 119 



Siagonodon humilis I4 



Sibon 91 



septentrionalis 91 



Simia 119, 124 



Sistrum 388 



Sistrurus 97 



catenatus 98 



catenatus catenatus 99 



c. consors 99 



censors consors 99 



c. edwardsii 99 



miliarius 100 



Sloanea dentata 557 



Socarnes bidenticulatus 147 



ovalis 147 



Solanum melongena 560 



Solaster affiuis 175 



endeca 175 



papposa 174 



Solen aspersus 399 



Ensis 399 



philippianus 399 



pictus 399 



roseomaculatus 399 



vaginoidos 399 



Solenidse 899 



Solidago altissima 8 



Solpugida 5ti8, 594 



Sopliora 358 



Sparassidse 585 



Sphserium heterodou 406 



iuutilis 406 



japonicum 406 



Spheriidse 406 



Spheroides 326 



Sphodromantis bioculata 284 



Sphodromerus decoloratus .... 379 



inconspicuus 359 



sauguiniferus 379 



Spodropoda rudolftc 282 



trimacula 283 



Spilotes 44 



corais 44 



corais couperi 44 



pullatus 44 



Spiromtocaris gaimardi 162 



grcenlandica 162 



phippsi 161 



polaris 163 



spinus 161 



Spiropoma 496 



japonicum 496 



JSTakadai 496 



Squallus Galeus 332 



Muslelus 330 



Licha 332 



Steatoda borealis 578 



grandis 578 



Stegocephalus inflatus 149 



Stenamma fulvum 425, 440 



(Aphsenogaster) fulvum. . 521 



fulvum aquira 425 



fulvum piceum, 427-449, 521, 

 528, 531, 536 



Stenobotlirus 371 



Stenocrobylus festivus 376 



Stenodermatiuse 296 



Stenopilema capuciua 276 



somali 276 



Stereophaedusa, 410, 482, 637, 643, 

 644, 647, 652, 656 



Stichaster albulus 173 



Slilosoma 80 



exteuuatum 81 



Storeria 41 



dekayi 41 



occipitomaculata 42 



Strougylocentrotus drobachi- 



ensis 170 



Succinea Hirasci 348 



horticola 196, 348 



lauta 196, 348 



obliqua 348 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



855 



Succinea ogasawarre 195 



pfeifferi 348 



puuetulispira 195 



putris 348 



retusa 348 



Vathelcti 196 



Succiueidne 195 



Swietenia mahagoui 557 



Syctodes thoracica 571 



Synidotea marmorata 156 



Syrnola bacillum 394 



brnnnea 395 



Syspira 5G9, 576 



tigina 576 



Tamandua tetradactvla 366 



Tantilla \ 92 



coronata 93 



eiseni 93 



gracilis 94 



nigriceps 93 



Tapes adspersa 206 



deshayesii 207 



phenax 207, 400 



platyptycha 206, 400 



quadriradiata 207 



Taphronota thailepliora 375 



Tarachodes ^stuans 278 



media 278 



modesta 279 



scluiltliessi 279 



smit hi 278 



sp 280 



Taracus 568 



packardi 593 



Tarentula modesta 586 



Tatocnemis malagassica 137 



Tectarius spinulosa 394 



Tellina concentrica 401 



diaphana 401 



(Merisca) pristiformis . . . . 400 



pristis 401 



siamensis 401 



Tellinidse 400 



Temnosoma oerugiaosum 217 



Isevigatum 217 



metallicum 217 



metallicum var. chapadaj. 217 



smaragdiuiim 217 



Tetragnatha extensa 569, 581 



laboriosa 581 



pallida . oSl 



Tetragnathidte 581 



Tetranychus bimaculatus 595 



desertorum 596 



Tetraodon margaritatus 326 



Tetraodontidse 326 



Tetrastemma 722 



Tetronarca nobiliaua 336 



TettigonidtB 880 



Teuthidid* 325 



Teutliis triostegus 325 



Thamnopliis 18 



elegans 23 



hammondii 24 



parietalis 28 



parietalis pickeringi 29 



vagrans 23 



V. biscutata 23 



Thanatus coloradensis 585 



rubicundus 585 



Thargalia 575 



modesta 575 



Theganopteryx Senegal ensis. . 274 



'I lieraphosidae 570 



Theridiidaj 577 



Theridioii pullnlum 571 



Theridium boreal is 578 



difterens 578 



funebris 579 



ueomexicauum 577 



Thomisida? 583 



Thomisus duttoni 585 



Thore 140 



boliviana 131, 135 



Thrinax argeutea 557 



parvitiora 557 



Throbroma cacao 560 



Thuya occideiitalis 355 



Tibellus duttoni 585 



Tilia Americana 357 



Europaja 357 



Tillandsia augustifolia 558 



bulbosa 558 



complanata 558 



compressa 558 



excelsa 558 



fasciculata 558 



flexuosa 558 



laxa 558 



pruiuosa 558 



setacea 558 



usneoides 558 



Tingis clavata 261 



Tingitidfe 262 



Titanoeca americana 569, 577 



Tmeticus 580 



brevipalpus 580 



pectinatus 580 



perplexus 580 



Tonicia 204 



Tole libbeyi 157 



Tornatina bermudensis 183 



canaliculata 183 



decurreus 183 



Torpedo nobiliana 336 



Tortrix bottae 15 




856 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Toxicopbis 96 



piscivorus 96 



pugnax 96 



Trachyrhinus marinoratus. . . . 593 



Tramea ouusta 128 



Triceralium 322 



Trichocoryes 296, 297 



Trimorphodon 91 



lyrophaues 91 



Trishoplita collinsoni var. 



casta 547 



colliasoni var. okinoshimoe 547 



dacostse 403 



dacostae var. awajiensis. . . 403 



goodwini 403 



goodwini var. kyotoensis. 403 

 goodwini var. strigata. . . . 403 



Hilgendorfi 547, 564, 565 



Hilgendorfl var. chikuba- 



sbiinae 564 



bilgendorfivar. tenuis 547, 564, 

 565 



tosana var. anozona 565 



tosana var. ruf\i 565 



Triskaidecactis papposa 174, 



Tritonidea menkeaua 388 



submenkeana 387 



Tritonopsis 513 



Trocbidse 199, 398 



Trocboniorpba catbcart;c 345 



Fritzei 344 



Gouldiana 344, 496 



boriomphala 344, 345 



Sliermani 345 



Trochosa 587 



cinerea 587 



parva 587 



Trombidium gemmosum 595 



magnificum 595 



scabruni 595 



Tropidocloniuni 42 



lineatum 41, 43 



Tropidonotus 11, IS, 32, 39, 42 



bisectus 32 



clarkii 33 



compressicaudus 34 



c. compressicaudus 34 



c. ustus 35 



cyclopium 38 



dekayi 4.I 



elegans 23 



fasciatus 37, 38 



kirtlandii 42 



grahami 33 



leberis 33 



occipitomaculatus 4.2 



ordinatus 20, 21 



ordinatus var. butleri .... 26 



Tropidonotus ordinatus var. 



coucbii 24. 



ordinatus var. bammondii 24, 

 ordinatus var. infernalis. . 23, 

 28,29 

 ordinatus var. marcianus. . 24 

 ordinatus var. sirtalis . . .26, 28 



pygseus 39 



rbombifer 38 



rigidus 33 



saurita 19,20 



septemvittatus 32 



sipedon 35 



sipedon fasciatus 36 



s. sipedon 37 



s, transversus 37 



taxispilotus 39 



transversus 37 



ustus 35 



vagrans 23 



Truucatella kiusiueusis 615 



PfeiflFeri 615 



valida 615 



Trygon brucco 337 



violacea 338 



Tryxalinae 370 



Tryxalis conspurcata 370 



unguiculata 370 



Turbiuida;' 398 



Turbonilla varicifera .... 198, 395 



varicosa 193 



Turbonillidae 198, 395 



Tyrannopbsedusa, 410, 422, 474, 

 475, 629, 647, 651, 656 



Ulmus Americana 356 



racemosa 361 



Umma (Cleis) longistigma. . . . 134 



Unciola irrorata 154 



leucopis 154 



Urodelea 503, 504, 506, 507 



Valeucinia armandi 680 



Vejovis punctipalpi 594 



Venericardia plauicosta. . .513, 517 



Veneridae 205, 400 



Venus columbiensis 400 



Hirasei 205, 400 



jedoensis 206 



( Amomalocardia) malonei 185 



squamosa 186 



Vertagus 392, 393 



pfefteri 393 



Verticordia eocense 513 



Vertigo Hirasei 484 



bydropbila 484 



modesta 484 



ovata 484 



Vespertilio caroliniensis 618 



Vestalis 131 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



857 



Vestalis amocna 134 



apicalis 134 



gracilis 134 



hictuosa 184 



Yiola 455 



Vipeddfe 96 



Virginia 83 



elegans 83 



inornata 43 



Valeria? 83 



Yitis caribcea 558 



Yitrea harimensis 498 



Yitriuocomus cyatliellus 194 



goniomphalns 195 



Moellendorffi 194, 195 



omphalotropis 195 



Yittaria liueata 558 



Yivipara lienzaclensis 188 



Yolutilithes 513 



Weuona Isabella 15 



lilumbea 15 



Xauthagrion erythroneurniii, 



133, 138 



Xipliocera brunneriana 375 



ensicornis 375 



sp ;->75 



Xysticus bicuspis 583 



cunctator 584 



elegans 584 



eraertoni 584 



gulosus 584 



montanensis 569, 583 



Xysticus pulverulcnsis 5S3 



quinquepunctatus 5^4 



Yucca alvifolia 559, 561 



gloriosa 559 



Zamenis 56, 63 



constrictor 58 



constrictor constrictor. ... 58 



c. flaviventris 5S 



flagelliformis .79-61 



flagellum 59 



flagellum flagellum 59 



f. frenatus 60 



f. piceus 61 



grahami 63 



lateralis 61 



lateralis lateralis 61 



ornatus 62 



schottii 62 



semilineatus 61 



stejnegerianus 5S 



tseniatus 61, 63 



tseniatus ornatus 62 



t. ta;niatus 62 



Zaptax, 410, 423, 465, 467, 502, 627, 

 647, 651 



Zizypliinus japonicus 200 



Zingiber officinale 560 



Zoe 131 



Zonitidfe 194, 404, 498 



Zygeupolia litoralis 657-739 



Zygoptera 126 




858 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



GENERAL INDEX, 

 1901. 



Aaron, Carrie B. Biographical 

 Notice of Robert Henry Lam- 

 born (with portrait), 384, 48G. 



Additions to the Museum, 779. 



Annual Reports (Plates A, B, C, 

 D, E and F), 741. 



Banks, Nathan. Some Arachnids 

 from New jMexico (Plate 

 XXXIII), 553, 5G8. 



Botanical Section, report of the, 

 772. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of the 

 Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 769. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of the, 769. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. On some 

 points in the phylogeny of the 

 Primates, 3, 119. A review of 

 the genera and species of Amer- 

 ican snakes, 10. A new species 

 of Coluber from western Texas 

 (Plate XXIX), 491, 492. A new 

 species of Ophibolus (Plate 

 XXXIV), 604, 612. 



Brown, Stewardson. Report of 

 the Botanical Section, 772. 



Case}% Thomas L. On the prob 

 able age of the Alabama white 

 limestone, 512, 513. 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. Obser- 

 vations on the placenta and 

 young of Dasvpus se.xcinctus 

 (Plate XVIIl),' 323, 366. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Descriptions 

 of new bees collected by ]V{r. 

 H. H. Smith in Brazil, II, 148, 

 216. 



Committees, Standing, 1. 



Conchological Section, report of 

 the, 770. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 of the, 751. 



Curator of the William S. Vaux 

 Collections, report of the, 768. 



Curators, report of the, 766. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M.D. Report 

 of the President, 741. 



Elections during 1901, 778. 



Entomological. Section, report of 

 the, 771. 



Fielde, Adele M. A studv of an 

 ant, 383, 425. Further study of 

 an ant, 512, 521. 



Fowler, Henry W. Note on the 

 Odontostomidaj, 143, 211. De- 

 scription of a new Hemiramphid, 

 272, 293. Fishes from Caroline 

 Islands, 321, 324. Types of 

 fishes (Plates XII-XV). 321, 

 327. Myctophum pliens;odes in 

 the North Atlantic, 553,''620. 



Fox, Henry. The development 

 of the TympanoEustachian 

 Passage and associated structures 

 in the common toad, Bufo lentig- 

 iuosus (Plates VI-IX), 143, 223. 



Goldsmith, Edward. A .quick 

 method of testing for gold, 519, 

 550. 



Gude, G. K. Description of new 

 Helicoid land shells from Japan, 

 608, 617. 



Harshberger, John W. The limits 

 of variation in plants. 191, 303. 

 An ecological sketch of the flora 

 of Santo Domingo (Plates 

 XXXI, XXXII), 552, 554. 

 Cockscomb fasciation of pine- 

 apples, 553, 609. 



Ilartlaub, Gustav, announcement 

 of death of, 3. 



Heath, Harold, and M. H. Spauld- 

 ing. Cymbuliopsis vitrea, a new 

 species of Pteropod, 384. 



Higgins, Helen T. The develop- 




1901.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



859 



ment aud comparative structure 

 of the gizzard of the Odonata 

 Zygoptera (Plates II, III, IV), 

 8, 126. 

 Holman, D. Sheplierd, annouuce- 



ment of death of, 331. 

 Huidekoper, Rush S., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 607. 

 Index to species, etc., 836. 

 Johnson, C. W., and A. W. Gra- 

 bau. A new species of Clavili- 

 thes from the Eocene of Texas, 

 519, 603. 

 Keeley, Frank J. Structure of 



diatoms, 331. 

 Keller, Ida A. Demonstration 

 that plants give oft" oxygen, 320. 

 A peculiar condition of ffidogo- 

 nium, 343, 598. 

 Kraemer, Henry. Crystalline and 

 crystalloidal substances and 

 their relation to plant structure, 

 343, 450. 

 Librarian, report of the, 752. 

 Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Lodel 

 creek and Skippack creek, 

 604. 

 McCartee, D. B., announcement 



of death of, 333. 

 Macfarlane, John M., appointment 

 to prepare obituary notice of 

 Thomas Meehan, 553. 

 Meehan, Thomas. Biographical 

 sketch of Charles Eastwick 

 Smith, 4. Contributions to the 

 life-historv of plants. No. XV 

 (Plates XVI, XVII), 333, 354. 

 Announcement of death of, 552. 

 Mensch,D. Calvin, M D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 491. 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of the, 774. 

 Mohr, Charles, announcement of 



death of, 491. 

 Montgomer}% Thomas H, Further 

 studies on the chromosomes of 

 the Hemiptera heteroptera (Plate 

 X), 143, 261. The identity of 

 the Gordiacean species, Chordo- 

 des Morgan! and C. puerilis 

 (Plate XI), 273, 289. Peculiar- 

 ities of the terrestrial larva of 

 the Urodelous Batrachian, Pleth- 

 odon cinereus (Plate XXX), 

 491, 503. 

 Moore, Clarence B. Certain ab- 

 original remains of the northwest 

 Florida coast. Part I, 272, 384. 



Certain aboriginal mounds of 

 the Tombigbee river, 383, 384. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D. Report 

 of the Recording Secretary, 748. 

 Report of the Librarian, 753. 



Nordenskiold, Adolf Eric, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 512. 



Norris, William F., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 607. 



Officers, Council and Attachees, 

 777. 



Ornithological Section, report of 

 the, 775. 



Ortmann, A. E. Crustacea and 

 Pycnogonida collected during 

 the Princeton Expedition to 

 North Greenland, 144. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Crustacea of 

 the Cretaceous formation of New 

 Jersey (Plate I), 111. Relation- 

 ship of the genus Neobeliscus, 

 142. New species of mollusks 

 from South Africa and Burma, 

 142, 188. New mollusca from 

 Japan, Formosa and the Philip- 

 pines, 191, 193. New Japanese 

 marine, land and fresh-water 

 mollusca (Plates XIX-XXI), 



342, 385. New mollusca from 

 Japan and the Loo Choo Islands, 



343, 344. The land mollusks of 

 the Loo Choo Islands : Clausi- 

 liidEE (Plates XXn, XXHI), 383, 

 434. Additions to the Japanese 

 land snail fauna, IV (Plates 

 XXV-XXVIII), 383, 465. No- 

 tices df new land snails from the 

 Japanese Empire, 491, 496. New 

 mollusks of the Japanese Em- 

 pire, 519, 545. Fasciolaria 

 gigantea subspecies reevei, 553. 

 New land mollusks of the 

 Japanese Empire, 553, 563. Ad- 

 ditions to the Japanese land 

 snail fiuna, V (Plates XXXV- 

 XXXIX), 607, 623. Catalogue 

 of the Clausiliidte of the Japan- 

 ese Empire, 607, 647. New land 

 mollusca of the Japanese Em- 

 pire, 608, 614. Report of the 

 Conchological Section, 770. 



Porter, Thomas C, announcement 

 of death of, 331. 



President, report of the, 741. 



Publications of the Academy, 788. 



Rand, Theodore D. Report of the 

 Curator of the William S. Vaux 

 Collections, 768. Report of the 




860 PROC. OF ACAD. OF NAT. SCIENCES OF PHILADA. [DeC, 1901. 



Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 774. 



Rankiu, Walter M. Eclunoderms 

 collected off the west coast of 

 Greenland by the Princeton 

 Arctic Expedi'tion of 1899, 1G9. 



Recording Secretary, report of 

 the, 748. 



Reese, A. M. The nasal passages 

 of the Florida Alligator (Plate 

 XXIV), 343, 457. 



Rehn, James A. G. The Forficu- 

 lidse, Blattidse, Mantidae and 

 Phasmidse collected in northeast 

 Africa by Dr. A. Donaldson 

 Smith, 191, 273. A study of the 

 genus Centurio, 272, 295. The 

 Acrididpe, Tettigonidfe and'Gryl- 

 lidse collected by Dr. A. Don- 

 aldson Smith in northeast Africa, 

 343, 370. 



Rhoads, S. N. On the common 

 brown bats of Peninsular Flor- 

 ida and Southern California, 

 607. 618. 



Schneider, Louis, announcement 

 of death of, 491. 



Selys-Longchamps, Edmond de, 

 announcement of death of, 2. 



Serials received by the Academj', 

 795. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. Food of 

 the Cod, 2. Report of the Cor- 

 responding Secretary, 751. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D, Report of 

 the Entomological Section, 771. 



Stone, Witmer. Occurrence of 

 Hyla andersonii at Clementon, 

 N. J., 342. Report of the Orni- 

 thological Section, 775. 



Thompson, Caroline Burling. 

 Zygeupolia litoralis, a new 

 Heteronemertean (Plates XL- 

 XLIV), 342, 657. 



Thompson, E. O., announcement 

 of death of, 192. 



Vanatta, Edward G. New marine 

 mollusks (Plate V), 142, 182. 



Vaux, George and William S., Jr. 

 Observations made in 1900 on 

 glaciers in British Columbia, 191, 

 213. 




> 



in 



X 



o 

 m 



7^ 



m 

 o 

 o 

 r 

 o 

 o 

 < 



o 



en 



> 



D 

 O 



Z 



o 

 o 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXXIII. 



BANKS. SPIDERS OF NEW MEXICO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. lyoi. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



BROWN. OPHIBOLUS ALTERNUS SP. NOV. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXXV. 



/V_ 



« 



/S. 



^--.^ 



% 



iy 



V 



,'^ 



V 



/i\ 



.••i^ 



:y 



t>>. 



S^^aV 



w ^ 



'.■■' 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901- 



PLATE XXXVI. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXXVII. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXXVm. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XXXIX. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAN D SNAIL FA UN A. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHII.A. 1901 



PLATE XL. 



OtrollDe B. Thompien. 



THOMPSON. ZYGEUPOLIA LITORALIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XU. 



Garollne B. Thompi 



THOMPSON. ZYGEUPOLIA LITORALIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XLII. 



^£. 



aB.L.-''?c;r. 







fr»:s 



. 3S. 



THOMPSON. ZYGEUPOLIA LITORALJS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XLIII. 



\f ■A.JIph.. d. 



THOMPSON. ZYGEUPOLIA LITORALIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1901. 



PLATE XLIV. 



c.L,M. ,^^i- ^^-t 



CarollDe B. Thompson, del. 



THOMPSON. ZYGEUPOLI A LITORALIS. 







'nimmK^.'. I IBRARY 



WH IflRz Y 



VI 





