

^ 10 iy; 



H 









PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



1921 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



1922 




9 V 

 i 



^■76 



The Academy op Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



April 24, 1922. 



I hereby certify that the printed copies of the Proceedings for 1921 were 

 mailed as follows: 



V I -' Pages 1-32 September 12, 1921- 



33-48 September 17, 1921. 



49-04 October 6, 1921. 



G5-96 October 11, 1921. 



97-192 October 14, 1921. 



193-224 December 9, 1921. 



225-240 December 24, 1921. 



241-304 January 3, 1922. 



30f>-352 January 4, 1922. 



353-416 January 18, 1922. 



417-430 January 23, 1922. 



437-408. . . .' April 6, 1922. 



469-500 April 11, 1922. 



501-532 April 13, 1922. 



533-552 Apiil 24, 1922. 



WILLIAM J. FOX, Editor. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Milton J. Greenman, M.D. 

 The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., L.L.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: William J. Fox. 




9 



CONTENTS 



For Announcements, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Alexander, Charles P. New or Little-known Craneflies 



from the Amazonian Region 39 



Braun, Annette F. Two Weeks' Collecting in Glacier Nat- 

 ional Park 1 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Hemibranchiate and Lopho- 



branchiate Fishes. 437 



Gordon, Samuel G. Desilicated Granitic Pegmatites 169 



The Chromite Deposits of the State Line Serpentines 449 



Hebard, Morgan. South American Blattidae from the Mus- 

 eum d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France 193 



Penard, E. Studies on some Flagellata, = . . 105 



Pennell, Francis W. Scrophulariaceae of the West Gulf 



States 459 



Pilsbry, Henry A. A Revision of W. M. Gabb 's Tertiary 



Mollusca of Santo Domingo 305 



Wanner, H. E. Some Faunal Remains from the Trias of 



York County, Pennsylvania 25 



Wetmore, Alexander. A Fossil Owl from the Bridger 



Eocene 455 









PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



921 



TWO WEEKS COLLECTING IN GLACIER NATIONAL PARK. 

 BY ANNETTE F. BRAUN. 



During the summer of 1920, the writer had a brief, but very- 

 successful collecting trip in Glacier National Park, Montana, which 

 disclosed an unexpectedly rich insect fauna. A total of fourteen 

 days, in whole or part, was spent in collecting between July 14 and 

 July 29, inclusive. 



Glacier National Park lies in northwestern Montana, including 

 within its boundaries a mass of mountain peaks, the highest of which 

 rises to an elevation of 10,438 feet. It is traversed in a northwest- 

 southeastwardly direction by the Continental Divide. On the west 

 side, the waters flow into the Pacific through the Columbia River; 

 on the east side, in the south, to the Missouri River, in the north 

 beyond the Hudson Bay Divide, to Hudson Bay. Adjoining the 

 park on the east lie the foothills and plains; at the lower altitudes 

 on this side of the park, about 5000 feet, there is a blending of foot- 

 hills and mountain vegetation which may in part account for the 

 richness and diversity of the fauna in the dry mountain meadows 

 at this altitude. It was on the east side of the park that most of 

 my collecting was done. 



Although my attention was directed principally toward securing 

 as adequate a representation of Microlepidoptera as possible within 

 the limited time spent in the park, specimens in other groups of 



(1) 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Lepidoptera were collected when the opportunity offered. The 

 number of such species perhaps totals in the neighborhood of one 

 hundred. In addition a few general observations on the abundance 

 and distribution of other orders of insects in the various ecological 

 regions and at different altitudes were made and will be referred 

 to below. 



The region is forested except at the higher altitudes and on wind- 

 swept mountain sides, with a rather dense growth of coniferous 

 trees. Some of the steeper rocky slopes are comparatively treeless, 

 with a scanty herbaceous vegetation of many species, with scattered 

 spruce and pine. In addition to these, there are two other types of 

 comparatively treeless areas, which furnished the best collecting 

 grounds, both as to species and numbers of individuals. One of 

 these is the open dry rocky meadow, which supports a great variety 

 of herbaceous plants and which yielded the greatest number of 

 Microlepidoptera. The other is a moister meadow, with taller, 

 more luxuriant vegetation. 



The coniferous forest proved to be the poorest collecting ground 

 in the park. This was especially true where the predominant under- 

 growth was the Indian basket grass; here practically nothing was 

 secured. Where the undergrowth was of a more varied character, 

 particularly near the margins of streams, a greater number of spe- 

 cies was found. The Geometridae led in numbers here. 



The rather open steep rocky slopes and cliffs, of which the sides 

 of Goat Mountain above St. Mary Lake are an example, yielded 

 some species which were not found elsewhere. Collecting here was 

 only successful early in the morning, at sunrise just as the sun strikes 

 the rocks, or in the late afternoon. 



The moister meadow referred to above may be found in forest 

 openings, on the moister mountain slopes, or in the more sheltered 

 valleys, such as the valley of Canyon Creek or the upper part of 

 Swiftcurrent Valley. The most conspicuous herbaceous plants of 

 these meadows in July are the cow parsnip, Heracleum lanatum, and 

 the false forget-me-not, Lappula floribunda. Shrubs abound and 

 a dense growth of alders occurs where the water supply is plentiful 

 enough. Such localities proved to be prolific collecting grounds. 

 In the Microlepidoptera the most abundant and characteristic spe- 

 cies here was Choreutis occidentella Dyar. Simaethis fabriciana var. 

 alpinella Busck, several species of Incurvariidae flying in sunshine, 

 and Pterophoridae were usually present in considerable numbers. 

 Butterflies in limited numbers were seen also. Toward the end of 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



July, Gnophaela latipennis var. vermiculata became very plentiful, 

 flying by dozens in the air above the alders. The numerous shrubs, 

 most of which were in bloom at the time of my stay, attracted 

 many Coleoptera, chiefly Longicorns, Clerids and Mordellids; Hy- 

 menoptera, of which the parasitic forms were especially noticeable, 

 and many Diptera, of which by far the greatest number were Syr- 

 phidae. The Coleoptera were most plentiful during the first four 

 or five days of my stay, and dwindled in numbers very markedly 

 toward the end of July. These meadows lie at altitudes of 4500 

 feet to 5500 feet. 



The dry meadow occupies drier, rocky and more exposed situa- 

 tions usually at altitudes around 5000 feet; good examples of such 

 meadows where extensive collections were made are found at Glacier 

 Park Station, the lower end of Two Medicine Lake, the north end 

 of McDermott Lake, and on the gentle slopes near the mouth of 

 Canyon Creek. These meadows are veritable flower gardens, ex- 

 hibiting an unsurpassed richness of flora. At the end of July, the 

 blooming period was about over at Glacier Park Station, and the 

 meadow was becoming dry and brown, with a corresponding dwind- 

 ling in species of Lepidoptera. These meadows are by far the 

 richest of any of the localities where collections were made in point 

 of species and numbers of individuals. Microlepidoptera were most 

 active early in the morning, while the dew was still on the leaves, 

 and in the evening at dusk. In most instances specimens taken in 

 the evening were of different species from those flying in the morn- 

 ing. Coleophora, Elachistidae, some Incurvariidae, many species of 

 Gelechiidae were the most characteristic groups present among the 

 Tineina; Tortricids were represented by a great number of species, 

 many very numerous in individuals, notably Cnephasia argentana 

 Clerck which flew in swarms; Pyralids, among which perhaps the 

 most common was Pyla sp., and many Crambids were present. 

 Butterflies flew plentifully during the middle of the day; these 

 were fairly numerous at all places during my stay in the park, but 

 became especially abundant during the last five or six days of July; 

 swarms of them congregated on every moist stream bank and on 

 the trails. The flowering shrubs, scattered through the meadows 

 and fringing the forests, attracted as in the moist meadows, many 

 Coleoptera, Hymenoptera and Diptera. 



The subalpine meadows occurred at the higher altitudes, 6000 

 feet or over, depending upon slope exposure, topographic conditions 

 and persistence of snow. These meadows produced a disappoint- 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



ingly small number of species. The Gelechiid, Gnorimoschema och- 

 reostrigella, was the only really common micro; some species of 

 Tortricids were found, and Crambids were fairly numerous. Butter- 

 flies were not uncommon; and representatives of several genera of 

 day-flying Noctuids were captured on flowers. The most striking 

 feature of the insect fauna at the higher altitudes at this time was 

 the presence of great numbers of Syrphus flies, representing many 

 species. Bumble-bees were common in the meadows here, with a 

 mimicking Syrphus fly. 



The microlepidopterous fauna of the region shows a mingling of 

 elements derived from several physiographic areas; as might be 

 expected from its situation at the eastern edge of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, with the plains to the east, and its connection with the Pacific 

 Coast and Sierra Nevada through the Columbia River Basin. Its 

 position in the Northern Rocky Mountain Region relates its flora 

 and fauna to that of the north and makes possible connections with 

 more easterly forms. Thus we have species here hitherto reported 

 from Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, from the more southern 

 Rocky Mountains, from the Sierra Nevada of California, from 

 Oregon, and species whose range includes the whole northern United 

 States and Canada. The Lepidoptera of the Kootenai District 

 of British Columbia (Dyar, 1904) is on the other hand, most nearly 

 related to that of the Sierra Nevada. This region, although not far 

 from Glacier National Park, lies entirely on the Pacific side of th e 

 Continental Divide in the Columbia River drainage basin. 



All of the localities mentioned in the following pages may be 

 found on the U. S. Geological Survey topographic map of Glacier 

 National Park. The altitudes of the chief points at which collec- 

 tions were made are as follows : 



Glacier Park Station, 4796 feet. 



Two Medicine Lake, 5175 feet. 



St. Mary, 4472 feet. 



Going-to-the-Sun Chalets, on St. Mary Lake, about 4600 feet. 



McDermott Lake, 4860 feet. 



Swiftcurrent Pass, 7176 feet. 



Granite Park, 6500 feet. 



In this paper only those species belonging to the families formerly 

 grouped together as Tineina are included. The Tortricid families of 

 which many species were collected are omitted here. In addition 

 to the species of Tineina recorded in this paper as occurring in 

 Glacier National Park, many others, chiefly Gelechiidae and Cole- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



ophoridae, some of them belonging to genera not reported from 

 this country, were collected. Strangely, no member of the family 

 Tineidae, which is usually well represented in collections from west- 

 ern localities, was secured. 



The types and paratypes of the new species are all for the present 

 in the writer's collection. 



COSMOPTERYGIDAE. 



Cyphophora tricristatella Chambers. 



Occurring most commonly in dry meadows at the lower altitudes 

 in the region (about 5000 feet); one specimen at Granite Park, 

 July 26 (6400 feet). 



Psacaphora deceptella n. sp. 



Palpi dark brown outwardly, with a silvery metallic luster in- 

 wardly; antennae dark brown, apical four or five segments black 

 preceded by six or seven white segments. Head and thorax leaden 

 metallic, with a purplish iridescence, base of wing silvery metallic 

 with blue and purple iridescence, followed by a large dark brown 

 patch on costa extending a little below fold. Ground color of 

 remainder of wing golden orange. The dark brown patch is edged 

 outwardly and beneath by bluish silvery metallic scales, which 

 extend outward beneath the fold to a large patch of dark brown 

 raised scales. A similar large patch of raised scales at tornus, pre- 

 ceded by a streak of metallic scales which forms its inner border 

 and then extends obliquely upward over the end of the cell to the 

 costal cilia; on the end of the cell these metallic scales form a slightly 

 convex patch. First discal spot round, silvery, edged with black. 

 A white costal spot at three-fourths. Extreme margin of the wing 

 around apex and cilia dark brown, with a faint purple luster; a 

 row of iridescent metallic scales around apex at base of cilia from 

 the white costal spot to the tornus. Hind wings dark brown. Legs 

 dark brown, tips of segments whitish. Abdomen dark brown above 

 and below. Expanse, 10 mm. 



Type (o 71 ), Glacier Park Station, July 29. 



Close to terminella Westwood ; at first glance mistakable for it. 

 The chief points of difference are the different coloration of the 

 antennae, the orange apex of the wings, and the details of the silvery 

 markings. 



Psacaphora sexstrigella n. sp. 



Palpi silvery white, the second segment densely dusted with 

 black in transverse rows, third segment with a few blackish specks. 

 Face yellowish, shading to dull leaden metallic on the crown. Tho- 

 rax and fore wings dark brown, mixed with leaden metallic scales, 

 which predominate in the basal two-thirds of the wing. Basal 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



fifth of wing purplish; an orange spot at basal fifth below fold but 

 not reaching dorsum; a large black scale tuft near middle of wing 

 below fold; a similar tuft at tornus, bordered toward base with white 

 scales; a little behind this, on costa, a large white spot; a series of 

 six white streaks, three costal and three terminal, around apex, 

 arranged fan-like, not reaching into the cilia. Cilia brown, paler 

 at the base. Hind wings and cilia brownish gray. Legs black, 

 with tips of segments and a bar across the hind tibiae white. Ab- 

 domen dark brown, tip orange. Expanse, 9 mm. 



Type ( 9 ), McDermott Lake. 



The larva mines leaves of fireweed, Chamaenerion angustifolium, 

 making a linear mine which enlarges into a pale greenish blotch. 

 The imago emerged August 14. 



Mompha unifascieUa Chambers. 



The galls common throughout the park on stems of fireweed. 

 Imagoes emerged from August 12 to 22. 



GELECHIIDAE. 



In addition to the species which are referred to or described be- 

 low, a limited number each of other species were collected. 



Aristotelia rubidella Clemens. 



Common in the dry mountain meadows at about 5000 feet. 



Telphusa praefixa n. sp. 



Labial palpi dark fuscous, paler inwardly; a very narrow whitish 

 annulus is faintly indicated at the basal third of the second segment, 

 a broad white annulus at apical third; base, an annulus before the 

 tip and extreme tip of third segment white. Antennae fuscous, 

 annulate with pale gray above, most distinctly toward the apex. 

 Head pale gray, scales tipped with white. Thorax and fore wings 

 dark fuscous, sprinkled with black scales in the middle and apical 

 part of the wing; scales of the thorax and wing near the base min- 

 utely tipped with whitish. From basal fourth of costa an out- 

 wardly oblique pale fascia (scales pale gray, white-tipped, con- 

 colorous with the head), narrowing toward dorsum, reaches a little 

 beyond the fold; it is bordered inwardly by a heavy line of black 

 scales, which ends in a small patch of raised black and whitish scales 

 just below the fold. A small patch of raised black and white scales 

 on the fold beyond the fascia. An indistinct pale spot in the middle 

 of costa; an irregular transverse pale fascia at three-fourths con- 

 colorous with the oblique fascia, scarcely reaches the dorsum, and 

 sends a short broad inward projection basalwards in the middle of 

 the wing. At the inner edge of this projection is a small patch of 

 raised black scales. Cilia gray, speckled with white-tipped black 

 scales. Hind wings and cilia fuscous. Legs fuscous, barred with 

 white, tarsi white-tipped. Expanse, 13.5-14 mm. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



Glacier Park Station, July 29, in a pine and aspen thicket. 

 Type and two paratypes in the writer's collection. 



Gnorimoschema ochreostrigella Chambers. 



This species is very common in the open meadows at the higher 

 altitudes. Many specimens collected at Granite Park and Swift- 

 current Pass, 6400 to 7100 feet; July 25-26. 



Some specimens show distinctly the ocherous streaking on the 

 fore wings; in others there is scarcely a vestige of the ochreous 

 tint, and the wing is of a dull drab color, dusted with fuscous. The 

 expanse of wings varies in these specimens from 12 to 17 mm. 



Gnorimoschema triocellella Chambers. 



Glacier Park Station, July 14. In some specimens the apical 

 portion of the wing except on the extreme margins is densely dusted 

 with nearly black scales. 



Gnorimoschema erigeronella o. sp. 



Palpi white inwardly, densely dusted with black beneath and 

 outwardly; base and a more or less distinct band near apex of second 

 segment whitish; base and extreme tip of third segment whitish. 

 Antennae whitish ochreous, banded with fuscous. Head and thorax 

 white, speeked with black, with some ochreous on the crown, and 

 on the patagia and median line of thorax. Fore wings ochreous, 

 marked with lines of white black-barred scales, which follow the 

 veins and the margins of the wing, leaving the fold ochreous. The 

 lower margin of the cell is broadly thus clothed, and the dorsal 

 part of the wing below the fold has only a short longitudinal streak of 

 ochreous which is sometimes entirely wanting. Around the apex 

 the scales on the interspaces are more broadly barred with black 

 than those along the veins. An elongate black spot or dash at the 

 middle of the cell just below and in contact with the line of scales 

 along the upper margin; a similar spot at the end of the cell. These 

 are the two most distinct spots, but there is usually an aggregation 

 of blackish scales on the fold just below the first discal spot; a similar 

 spot on the ochreous ground color just within the costal margin near 

 base. Hind wings silvery gray in the female, darker in the male; 

 cilia gray with ochreous bases. Legs white, densely dusted with 

 fuscous, hind tibiae faintly barred with white; tarsal segments tipped 

 with white. Expanse, 11.5-14 mm. 



Glacier Park Station, July 28; a specimen reared emerged Aug- 

 ust 13. 



Type (cT) and two paratypes ( 9 ) ; one of the females reared from 

 an irregular mine on Erigeron speciosus DC., collected July 14, 

 when most of the mines were untenanted. 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



This species is very close to artemisiella Kearf . ; the two are almost 

 identically marked, but erigeronella is a narrow, more slender-winged 

 species and is considerably larger. 



Gnorimoschema contraria n. sp. 



Labial palpi blackish, minutely peppered with white; second seg- 

 ment whitish inwardly, third with a white spot within near base. 

 Antennae dark brown with narrow paler rings. Head and thorax 

 dark fuscous, patagia and tip of thorax reddish brown. Costal 

 two-thirds of the fore wing reddish brown, with the costa and veins 

 marked with lines of white broadly black-barred scales, the lines 

 sometimes confluent in the apical half of the wing; the dorsal third 

 of the wing from the base to the apex is clothed with white scales 

 barred before their tips with black of varying width. The dorsal 

 margin is distinctly lighter than the remainder of the wing. The 

 paler dorsal portion is irregular indented with blunt tooth-like 

 projections of the brown ground color; these teeth are partially 

 filled up and edged with blackish scales, heightening the contrast 

 between the two areas. Three of these patches of black scales stand 

 out prominently; an elongate one near base, one in each of the two 

 succeeding teeth and extending up onto the cell. Cilia fuscous, 

 specked with whitish black-barred scales. Hind wings and cilia 

 gray, with a faint reddish tinge. Legs densely dusted with fuscous. 

 Expanse, 15-16 mm. 



Type (d 71 ), McDermott Lake, July 22; three paratypes (cf and 9 ), 

 Glacier Park Station, July 14; in dry meadows. 



Although allied to the other longitudinally streaked species, the 

 paler dorsal margin gives it a very different aspect; the pattern 

 of the dorsal half of the wing is that of serratipalpella Chambers. 

 In the female, the brown ground color is less obscured by the dusted 

 lines than in the males. 



Anacampsis niveopulvella Chambers. 



Common at Glacier Park Station, where the larvae feed on willow 

 and aspen. Both this and the following species are referable to 

 Compsolechia Meyrick, if this genus is maintained distinct from 

 Anacampsis. 

 Anacampsis paltodoriella Busck. 



One specimen of this beautiful species taken on the car window, 

 exact locality not known, presumably western Montana. 

 The type locality is New Mexico. 



Gelechia lugubrella Fab. 



McDermott Lake, July 22; Glacier Park Station, July 29; in dry 

 meadows. Previously reported in this country from Maine. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Gelechia unifasciella Busck. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 15-16; in dry mountain meadows. 

 These specimens answer minutely the description of this species, 

 the types of which came from Williams, Arizona, but the expanse is 

 somewhat less (14-15 mm.). 



Gelechia metalLca n. sp. 



Palpi bronzy broWn, brush on second segment blackish. An- 

 tennae dark brown. Head, thorax ano\ fore wings lustrous dark 

 bronzy brown, the wings entirely immaculate; on underside of the 

 fore wings of the male a patch of yellowish oval slightly convex 

 scales covers the disc. Hind wings shining pale fuscous, with 

 slightly yellowish elongate scales on the disc. Abdomen purplish 

 black above, underside of abdomen and legs shining dark bronzy 

 brown. Expanse, 9.5-11.5 mm. 



Glacier Park Station, July 14 and 29, Going-to-the-Sun, July 20- 

 21; McDermott Lake, July 24; in dry mountain meadows, flying in 

 the early morning. 



Type (cf) and thirty paratypes, all males. 



Very unlike any other described American species. In the hind 

 wing, veins 3 and 4 are stalked, veins 6 and 7 closely approximated. 



Gelechia abradescens n. sp. 



Palpi, antennae and head dark brown; outer side of second seg- 

 ment of palpi with a few scattered whitish scales. Thorax and 

 fore wings shining dark brown, under a lens slightly irrorated; some- 

 times a few scattered whitish scales along the veins; an indistinct 

 elongate blackish spot at about the middle of the fold, and obliquely 

 above and beyond it in the cell a small blackish spot; a similar 

 but larger spot at the end of the cell; at apical third a whitish spot 

 on the costa, usually confined to the extreme costa, occasionally, 

 especially in the female, extending about one-quarter across the 

 wing. Cilia brownish gray, with a faint line of brown scales through 

 the middle. Hind wings brownish gray, cilia brown at their bases. 

 Underside of body and legs uniformly dark brown without paler 

 markings. Expanse, 17-20 mm. 



Glacier Park Station, July 14, in dry meadows. 



Type ( cf ) and eleven paratypes ( cf and 9 ) . 



This species seems to be allied to pravinominella, ornatifimbriella 

 and amorphaeella. 



The wings are very easily abraded, having then more of a dusted 

 appearance, due to exposure of the paler bases of the scales. In 

 such specimens the black spots are more conspicuous. 



Gelechia conspersa n. sp. 



Palpi pale grayish brown, mixed with whitish, third segment with 

 a minute black spot at the base outwardly. Antennae brown, 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



banded with whitish. Head and thorax pale grayish brown. Fore 

 wings pale grayish brown, bases of scales whitish, dusted with scat- 

 tered whitish scales, which occur singly except in the apical third of 

 the wing, where they form ill-defined spots. A row of these extends 

 around the apex from the apical third of costa to the tornus. The 

 costal margin is slightly darkened before the first of these spots. 

 A faint darker small spot on disc and a larger one at end of cell. 

 Cilia whitish at their bases, brown at the tips with an indistinct 

 brownish line through the middle. Hind wings pale brownish gray, 

 cilia whitish at the base. Upper side of abdomen gray, tuft whitish. 

 Underside of body and legs, except the hind tibiae and tarsi, dark 

 brown, sparsely dusted with white. Hind tibiae and tarsi whitish 

 inwardly, dusted with brown outwardly except at tips of segments. 

 Expanse, 18-19 mm. 



Type (cf), McDermott Lake, July 24; one paratype, St. Mary, 

 July 18. 



Gelechia alternatella Kearfott. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 16, in dry meadows. 



Gelechia versutella Zeller. 



Very common on trunks of aspens, on the leaves of which the 

 larva feeds, Glacier Park Station, July 29. The moths are prac- 

 tically invisible except when moving, so closely do they resemble 

 the darker patches of bark. 



OECOPHORIDAE. 



Agonopteryx rosaciliella Busck. 



Reared from larvae sewing together leaves of sweet cicely, Os- 

 morhiza sp., near Going-to-the-Sun Chalets. Larvae collected 

 July 21; imago, August 7. 



Agonopteryx nivalis n. sp. 



Palpi creamy white, slightly shaded with brownish; antennae 

 brownish, darker toward the tips. Head, thorax and fore wings 

 creamy white; fore wings with a faint rusty tinge beneath fold near 

 base of dorsum and along apical third of costa. Minute brownish 

 and blackish spots along costa, three or four larger and more diffuse 

 on apical third; last row of scales along termen between veins, 

 brown; a few scattered brown scales, chiefly along the veins; a very 

 small black spot within the costa near base; a small black spot on 

 middle of cell and obliquely above and before it, a second similar 

 spot; a larger transverse spot at end of cell. Hind wings creamy 

 white. Legs white, dusted with fuscous, the fore pair most densely. 

 Expanse, 23 mm. 



Type (cf), Two Medicine Lake, July 16. 



Perhaps most like pallidella Busck, but without demarcation be- 

 tween basal area and remainder of wing. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



Enicostoma quinquecristata n. sp. 



Labial palpi with the anterior edge of second segment pale reddish 

 ochreous, a black spot near base and above middle; remaining scales 

 of brush gray with white tips; third segment yellowish, with an 

 annulus near base and the tip bJack. Antennae gray. Scales of 

 head and thorax gray, with white tips. Fore wings ashen brown, 

 more or less thickly bestrewn with dark gray, minutely white-tipped 

 scales, with a tendency to longitudinal streaking in the apical third 

 of the wing; groups of brown white-tipped scales form a series of 

 indistinct marginal spots around the apex. Five scale tufts formed 

 of white-tipped black scales; at one-third, a very large tuft on fold 

 and' a smaller one above in the cell ; a large tuft at the lower angle 

 of the cell and a smaller one above it; between these two pairs, 

 on the middle of the cell, a fifth large tuft. Cilia grayish brown, 

 with scales white-tipped. Hind wings pale gray, cilia fulvous at 

 the base. Legs densely dusted with gray, hairs on upper side of 

 hind tibiae pale brownish, spreading scales on underside gray with 

 white tips. Expanse, 17-19 mm. 



Type (cf), Two Medicine Lake. 



The type and twelve paratypes ( cf and 9 ) reared from larvae 

 webbing leaves of Penstemon confertus Dougl., a common small- 

 flowered pale yellow species, collected on the trail to Dawson Pass, 

 Two Medicine Lake, altitude about 5500 feet. The larva lives 

 under a web in a folded leaf, eating out patches of the leaf. The 

 web is usually on the upper side, sometimes on the lower side of the 

 leaf near the base. Surface of pupa clothed with fine erect hairs. 

 Imagoes, August 6-17. 



Although the food plant' was common everywhere throughout the 

 region in the dry meadow at the lower altitudes, the larva of this 

 species was not observed elsewhere. 



The generic position of the species was determined by Dr. Ed- 

 ward Meyrick, who states that it agrees with the type of the genus 

 in all essential particulars, except in the palpi. In E. quinquecristata, 

 the second segment of the palpi is more thickened with scales, and 

 these are more expanded toward apex than in the type. 



The genus Enicostoma is given in Dyar's "List" as a synonym of 

 Semioscopis. 



For convenience of reference, a detailed statement of the generic 

 characters as shown by E. quinquecristata follows: 



Head with loosely appressed scales, side tufts projecting in front; 

 tongue developed, densely scaled except towards tip. Antennae 

 two-thirds, with slightly spreading whorls of scales at apices of 

 segments, alike in both sexes, basal segment without pecten. Labial 

 palpi very long, recurved; second segment clothed with a dense 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



triangular brush of scales beneath and above, laterally compressed, 

 sharp-edged in front, .brush horizontally truncate at apex; third 

 segment slender, acute, seeming to arise from center of the brush of 

 second, visible portion about one-third the length of the second. 

 Maxillary palpi short, appressed to tongue, third segment equaling 

 in length the two preceding segments. Posterior tibiae clothed 

 with long hairs above, and rough spreading long scales beneath. 

 Fore wings with large tufts of raised scales; lb furcate at base, 

 2, 3 and 4 about equidistant, 2 from near end of cell ; 2 and 3 arising 

 perpendicular to lower margin of cell, curving outward and running 

 straight to termen; 5 nearer 4, 7 and 8 stalked, 7 to costa almost 

 at apex, 11 from before middle. Hind wings 1, elongate-ovate, 

 cilia 1; 3 and 4 connate, 5-7 parallel, 5 nearer 6. 

 Epicallima quadrimaculella Chambers. 



Amongst rocks, near Going-to-the-Sun, on St. Mary Lake, July 20- 

 21. All of the specimens were taken flying in the sunshine at sun- 

 rise, and none were seen later than 7.30 A. M. 

 Epicallima dimidiella Walsingham. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 15; Going-to-the-Sun, July 18 and 21. 

 Flying actively only in early morning; several taken flying in com- 

 pany with E. quadrimaculella. 



Borkhausenia haydenella Chambers. 



Two males and one female of this species were collected, one male 



at Two Medicine Lake, July 15, the other two specimens on the 



cliffs on Goat Mountain above Going-to-the-Sun Chalets, July 18. 



The female has the wing more densely dusted with white than the 



male, and the transverse spot at the basal third large and more 



clearly defined. 



ETHMIIDAE. 



Ethmia albistrigella Walsingham. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 16; Granite Park, 6500 feet, July 25. 

 Collected near plants of false forget-me-not, Lappula floribunda, 

 which may possible be the food plant. 



GLYPHIPTERYGIDAE. 

 Simaethis fabriciana var. alpinella Busck. 



St. Mary, July 18; Canyon Creek, 5500 feet, July 23, in openings 

 in the forest. 



Choreutis pernivalis n. sp. 



Head and palpi whitish, scales of tuft fuscous towards tips. Basal 

 half of fore wing light brown, with a broad straight pure white 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



fascia across the middle of the brown; fascia margined outwardly 

 along the middle of its length with silvery scales; a basal streak of 

 silvery scales just within the costal margin. Outer half of wing 

 white, except a narrow band around apex and along termen, which 

 is ochreous, dusted with white and fuscous. White patch with two 

 longitudinal black and , one or two fuscous lines of scales; the two 

 black lines ending at the outer border of the white patch in con- 

 fluent black spots, nearly overlaid with silvery scales; a wedge- 

 shaped black spot beneath these, silvery margined, and a large 

 quadrate black patch just above fold, with two transverse lines of 

 silvery scales and a few silvery scales at its upper outer angle. Cilia 

 white with a pale fuscous line through the middle. White marks 

 more or less distinctly repeated on the underside. Hind wings 

 more pointed than usual, brownish fuscous, underside with a whitish 

 irregular submarginal patch; ground color shading darkest next to 

 this patch. Underside of thorax white, abdomen fuscous. Legs 

 whitish, tibiae and tarsi brownish. Expanse, 11.5-12 mm. 



Type (cf), and one paratype (9), Glacier Park Station, July 14. 



Very close to extrincicella Dyar, from which it differs by the pure 

 white of the fore wings, the whitish irregular patch on the under- 

 side of the hind wings, and the narrower wings, particularly the 

 narrower more pointed hind wings. 



Choreutis caliginosa n. sp. 



Palpi fuscous and white intermixed; antennae dark brown, with 

 white annulations. Head and thorax dark brownish gray, a few 

 scales at the posterior margin of the head and a very narrow line 

 along the inner edge of the patagia whitish. Fore wings dark brown ; 

 a curved whitish fascia at basal fourth, palest and broadest on the 

 dorsum and not reaching the costa; a basal streak of iridescent 

 scales just within the costa; outer half of the wing, except the apical 

 part, occupied by a paler patch of whitish-tipped brown scales, 

 marked at the inner and outer edge on the costa by a white spot, 

 below which are a few iridescent scales; before the pale patch on the 

 dark brown ground color in the middle of the wing is a black spot, 

 nearly overlaid with iridescent scales. On the pale patch, above the 

 middle, a small black spot with iridescent scales, three or four longi- 

 tudinal black lines running out into the ground color in the apex; 

 below, a large quadrate patch, sometimes divided transversely, 

 containing two transverse patches of iridescent scales. A few iri- 

 descent scales along termen below apex. Hind wings dark brown, 

 on underside an irregular paler submarginal band. Expanse, 10.5- 

 11 mm. 



Type (cf), paratype (9), Two Medicine Lake, July 16; in dry 

 meadows. 



Close to occidentella Dyar, but smaller and darker, and with the 

 oblique iridescent streak beyond the basal fascia in that species 

 replaced by a black spot overlaid with iridescent scales. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Choreutis occidentella Dyar. 



This is one of the commonest micros in the region at altitudes 

 from 4500 to 5500 feet in moist meadows or forest openings. Speci- 

 mens taken at Glacier Park Station, July 14; Two Medicine Lake, 

 July 15-16; St. Mary, July 18; Canyon Creek, July 23. In some 

 of these specimens the small black spot with iridescent scales above 

 the large quadrate spot is absent; the ground color varies from 

 an ochreous brown to dark grayish brown. 



Choreutis balsamorrhizella Busck. 



Near Going-to-the-Sun Chalets, St. Mary Lake, July 20; flying 

 around the food plant. 



PLUTELLIDAE. 



Plutella vanella Walsingham. 



Glacier Park Station-, July 29. 



Plutella maculipennis Curt. 



This species was observed to be abundant in the park. 



YPONOMEUTIDAE. 



Argyresthia oreasella Clemens. 



One specimen taken at Glacier Park Station, July 29, cannot 

 be differentiated from eastern specimens. Oak cannot be the food 

 plant here, at least, as there are no oaks here. 



COLEOPHORIDAE. 



Judging from the number collected during the short stay in the 

 park, the region is unusually rich in species of Coleophora. Twelve 

 species were collected of which ten seem to be undescribed. Of 

 these, but two are here described, the others are either represented by 

 too short series, or are not sufficiently striking in the absence of a 

 knowledge of the life history, to be described except in monographic 

 work. 

 Coleophora tenuis Walsingham. 



One specimen, Two Medicine Lake, July 16, taken in dry meadows, 

 answers well the description of this species, but is slightly smaller 

 (15 mm. expanse). 



Coleophora albacostella Chambers. 



Very common, Glacier Park Station, July 14 and July 28, flying 

 amongst patches of Polygonum erectum, upon which it probably 

 feeds. Chambers' type came from Texas, which is included in the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



range of this plant. There is one other specimen in my collection 

 from Tolland, Colorado. 



Coleophora brunneipennis n. sp. 



Palpi brownish ochreous, shaded with fuscous beneath and on the 

 outer side, second segment rather long, slightly tufted, third seg- 

 ment a little over one-half the second. Antennae brown, banded 

 with whitish, basal segment thickened with scales. Head, thorax 

 and fore wings of a uniform light brown or brownish ochreous color, 

 rarely duller with a grayish suffusion, but always entirely without 

 markings or dusting. Cilia concolorous, toward tornus brownish 

 fuscous. Hind wings and cilia fuscous. Legs brown. Expanse, 

 12-17 mm. 



Type (cf), Glacier Park Station, July 14, eighteen paratypes 

 (d* and 9 ), Glacier Park Station, July 14 and 28. 



This species was much commoner on July 14 than at the later 

 date, when only four specimens were secured. A number of the 

 specimens were taken on flowers of Erigeron speciosus; some speci- 

 mens were taken at the same time and place as the preceding species, 

 amongst Polygonum. It is possible that one of these plants is the 

 food plant of the larva. 



Coleophora crinita n. sp. 



Second segment of labial palpi very long, porrected, clothed with 

 long scales, roughened above, with a long projecting truncate tuft 

 beneath at apex, exceeding the short third segment and sometimes 

 concealing it, whitish, fuscous beneath and on outer side. Head 

 and basal segment of antennae whitish ochreous, the latter slightly 

 thickened with scales, antennal stalk white, banded above with 

 dark brown. Fore wings pale ochreous or brownish ochreous, with 

 the costa from base to apex white, the dorsal margin more narrowly 

 white from base to apex of wing, a rather broad white streak from 

 base above and parallel to the fold, a narrow parallel streak close 

 to it just below the fold, four oblique white streaks running out 

 into the costal cilia along the veins , two less distinct streaks running 

 into the cilia below apex. Hind wings and cilia grayish ochreous. 

 Legs whitish, with a fuscous line along the outer side. Expanse, 

 12-18 mm. 



Type (cf), July 22, McDermott Lake, eighteen paratypes (cf and 

 9), Going-to-the-Sun, July 20-21, McDermott Lake, July 22 and 

 24, Glacier Park Station, July 29, all in dry meadows. 



The long palpi, with the unusually long projecting tuft of the 

 second segment, are the chief characters for recognition of this 

 species. The markings of the fore wing are exactly those of C. 

 acutipennella Wlsm.; in fact, the figure and description of the wing 

 of that species would serve equally well for the present species. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Walsingham, however, mentions no unusual features of the palpi 

 in his species. 



ELACHISTIDAE. 



Elachista stramineola n. sp. 



Palpi whitish inwardly and above ; second segment black outwardly 

 except at extreme tip; third segment blackish outwardly except at 

 base and extreme tip. Antennae blackish, faintly marked with 

 narrow paler annulations. Head yellowish gray. Thorax gray, 

 patagia whitish, sparsely speckled with fuscous. Fore wings fus- 

 cous, a little dusted with yellowish white, especially in the basal 

 third. At base of dorsum a yellowish white patch, not extending 

 onto the costal half of base, is specked with a few fuscous scales; a 

 white slightly irregular fascia at one-third nearest base on costa; 

 a triangular costal spot at two-thirds reaching halfway across the 

 wing, and a little nearer base on dorsum a short broad whitish spot. 

 Scales along termen yellowish toward their bases; last row of scales 

 along termen with a whitish bar immediately preceding the black 

 tip. Cilia gray. Hind wings and cilia pale fuscous. Legs fuscous, 

 tips of segments and a bar across basal third of hind tibiae yellowish 

 white. Abdomen grayish above, yellowish white beneath. Ex- 

 panse, 11.5 mm. 



Type ( 9 ), Glacier Park Station, July 29, in dry meadows. 



This species may be distinguished from all other species with 

 white at the base of the wing by the* dull yellowish white of the 

 markings and the position of the basal pale patch, which is confined 

 to the dorsal half of the wing. Venation as figured in Meyrick's 

 "Handbook." 



-Elachista agilis n. sp. 



Palpi dark brown, antennae dark brown. Head and thorax dark 

 leaden metallic. Fore wings dark brown, somewhat shining, with 

 metallic silvery or golden markings: at basal fourth on dorsum, 

 an oblique spot reaching the fold, at middle of costa a nearly per- 

 pendicular transverse spot nearly reaching the fold, in a line with 

 this spot a small roundish spot below the fold, a spot at tornus and 

 farther out, a curved costal streak, sometimes nearly enclosing the 

 apex. Hind wings and cilia brownish gray. Underside of body 

 silvery. Legs dark brown, femora, apex and spurs of tibiae, and 

 tips of tarsi of the hind legs silvery. Expanse, 7 mm. 



Type (d") and one paratype, Goat Mountain, above Going-to- 

 the-Sun Chalets, about 5000 feet, July 18. 



An easily recognized species, quite different from any of our 

 described species. Venation as figured in Meyrick's "Handbook." 



Elachista aurocristata n. sp. 



Palpi white, antennae white, shading outwardly to fuscous in the 

 male. Head, thorax and fore wings white, with a scarcely percep- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



tible yellowish tinge in the female. Fore wings usually entirely 

 immaculate, sometimes with a few scattered brownish ochreous 

 scales; one or two such scales near end of fold, at end of cell and in 

 the apex and along termen. A faint narrow blackish line some- 

 times present in the cilia at apex and along termen. Hind wings 

 white or pale gray. Legs white, shaded with fuscous. Abdomen 

 white, in the male shaded with golden yellow beneath, and with a 

 golden yellow anal tuft. Expanse, 12 mm. 



Glacier Park Station, July 14 and 29; in dry meadows. 



Type ( cf ) and three paratypes (one d 71 and two 9 's) . 



Only in one of the males are the scattered ochreous scales present 

 on the fore wings ; the wings in the other three specimens are entirely 

 immaculate. 



Allied to E. orestella Busck, with which it agrees in venation; 

 but easily distinguished by the golden anal tuft of the male. 



Tinagma gigantea n. sp. 



Labial palpi yellowish white above, scales of tuft grayish. An- 

 tennae grayish, tinged with ochreous beneath. Head and thorax 

 dusted about equally with whitish and pale gray. Scales of the 

 ground color of the fore wings are pale gray at their bases, shading 

 into white of varying width, followed by a black tip. A broad 

 blackish transverse fascia just before middle of wing, ill-defined 

 on its inner edge, . narrowly margined with white on its outer edge, 

 and outwardly obtusely angulated on the cell; a similar dark shade, 

 its margins not defined, crosses at two-thirds, fading out into the 

 general ground color toward apex. Marginal row of scales nearly 

 black, cilia dark gray. Hind wings dark gray. Legs blackish, 

 slightly dusted with gray; tips of tarsi pale' gray. Expanse, 14-15 

 mm. 



McDermott Lake, July 22-24; Going-to-the-Sun ,July 20; Glacier 

 Park Station, July 28-29; in dry meadows. 



Type (cf ), July 24; twenty-one paratypes. 



This species flies at dusk. The moth has the peculiar habit of 

 slowly raising and lowering the wing. 



The markings are similar to those of T. obscurofasciella Chambers, 

 but T. gigantea is much larger and lacks the brownish tint of that 

 species. 



Tinagma pulverilinea n. sp. 



Labial palpi white, with black specks outwardly. Antennae pale 

 gray. Head and thorax white, dusted with black. Scales of the 

 general ground color of the fore wing with base gray, followed by a 

 usually broad white bar, black-tipped. A broad dark transverse 

 fascia just before middle of wing, convex outwardly and bordered 

 outwardly by a row of scales which are almost entirely white. A 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



similar dark fascia at two-thirds, convex inwardly and bordered 

 inwardly by a broken line of white scales. In some specimens, the 

 effect of these two white margins with the whitish dusted scales 

 between them is that of a bi-concave dusted white-margined fascia. 

 The second dark fascia sometimes passes imperceptibly into the white 

 dusted apex, sometimes is more or less limited outwardly by an 

 incomplete line of white scales. Marginal line of scales fuscous, 

 cilia gray. Hind wings gray. Legs white, dusted with black, hind 

 pair most densely. Thorax beneath nearly pure white, abdomen 

 dusted with black. Expanse, 9-11 mm. 



On cliffs on the side of Goat Mountain, above Going-to-the-Sun 

 Chalets, July 18, flying in the sun. 



Type ( cf ) and four paratypes ( o* and 9 ) . 



In general appearance quite different from the other two Amer- 

 ican species of the genus, but with the same type of markings. 



GRACILARIIDAE. 



Lithocolletis oregonsis Walsingham. 



Mines collected near Baring Creek, July 20, on Symphoricarpos 

 sp. The mine is a small tent mine on the underside of the leaf, 

 with epidermis much wrinkled and a patch of leaf tissue in the 

 middle of the mine not consumed. Imago, July 28. The species 

 was described from Oregon. 



Acrocercops astericola F. and B. 



McDermott Lake, July 24. I also have specimens of this species 

 from southern Oregon. 



Gracilaria acerifoliella Chambers. 



I refer with little doubt to this species, specimens reared on a 

 bush maple (Acer sp.), near Going-to-the-Sun Chalets. 



In these specimens, there is none of the brown dusting described 

 by Chambers for this species, but the wings are pale brownish or 

 reddish ochreous, with purple reflections and a pale costal triangle 

 produced along the costa. Inasmuch as similar undusted forms 

 occur in other species (for example, G. ostryaeella Chambers), the 

 identification is probably correct. The larval habits agree closely 

 with those described for G. acerfoliella; a large leaf is often entirely 

 folded up by the time the larva finishes eating. 



Larvae collected July 18, imagoes August 6-14. 



Gracilaria alnivoreUa Chambers. 



The larvae were very common at the lower altitudes on alder. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



SCYTHRIDAE. 



Scythris magnatella Busck. 



Larvae in webs on fireweed (Chamaenerion angustifolium) , imagoes 

 August 5. 



Scythris impositella Zeller. 



Glacier Park Station, July 29. Mines, presumably of this spe- 

 cies, were observed on Aster and on Arnica sp. 



Scythris eboracensis Zeller. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 16; Going-to-the-Sun, July 20-21. 

 Some of these specimens are unusually pale and grayish. 



LYONETIIDAE. 

 With the exception of Tischeria heliopsisella Chambers, which 

 was a common miner on sunflower near Baring Creek, only one 

 other member of this family was observed, a Bucculatrix feeding 

 on Arnica sp. 



INCURVARIIDAE. 



Lampronia quieta n. sp. 



Palpi brownish yellow, outer side of labial palpi dark brown; 

 antennae dark brown, face and head brownish yellow. Thorax 

 brown, patagia and a small spot on the middle of the base of the 

 fore wing buff. Fore wing brown, scarcely shining, marked with 

 pale buff spots; a large oblique quadrate spot at basal fourth on 

 dorsum, reaching a little more than halfway across the wing; a 

 large costal spot at two-thirds, concave on its inner side, convex 

 on its outer side, and produced a little along the costa towards apex; 

 a dorsal spot just before tornus, with its inner edge perpendicular 

 to the margin, its outer edge oblique; a narrow elongate spot along 

 termen below apex; costal cilia brown, buff -tipped towards apex, 

 cilia buff at apex and on termen to the lower end of the buff spot, 

 thence dark brown to the tornus. Hind wings and cilia gray. Legs 

 buff, the two anterior pair with fuscous shading. Expanse, 18 

 mm. 



Type ( 9 ) , Canyon Creek, 5500 feet, July 23 ; resting on a rock 

 near the water. 



Nearest to taylorella Kearf., but without the purple and coppery 

 luster of that species. 



Lampronia obscuromaculata n. sp. 



Palpi gray, second segment of labial palpi white above; antennae 

 gray, white scaled toward base, cilia of the male 1 ; head with gray 

 and whitish hairs intermixed. Fore wings shining very pale gray, 

 with a few scattered fuscous scales, base of costa fuscous; marked 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



with scarcely defined white spots and fasciae placed- as follows: 

 a spot in the fold near base; a quadrate spot on basal third of dor- 

 sum reaching just beyond fold; just beyond middle a transverse 

 fascia; at apical fourth of costa a spot reaching about halfway across 

 the wing. Hind wings and cilia gray, darker than the fore wings, 

 with purplish iridescence, thinly scaled. Legs gray. Expanse, 15 

 mm. 



Type (cf), Two Medicine Lake, July 16; in dry meadows. 



In this specimen, veins 7 and 8 of the fore wing are coincident 

 as in Greya, but the other characters and the general habitus of the 

 insect are those of Lampronia. As shown by the following species, 

 such individual variations occur. 



Lampronia variata n. sp. 



Palpi brownish gray, labial palpi with whitish scales above; an- 

 tennae black ; head brownish, some whitish hairs on the face. Tho- 

 rax and fore wings shining bronzy brown; at basal third of dorsum 

 a pale yellowish spot reaching the fold; just before tornus a pale 

 yellowish spot reaching two-thirds across the wing. Tips of cilia 

 whitish. Hind wings dark brown with a faint purple luster. Legs 

 c/ark brown. Expanse, 11 mm. 



Type (cf ), Two Medicine Lake, July 16; paratypes (c? and 9 ), 

 Two Medicine Lake, July 15, in forest openings. 



In some of these specimens 7 and 8 of the fore wings are coin- 

 cident. 



Lampronia politella Walsingham. 



Three males, Two Medicine Lake, July 15, Going-to-the-Sun, 

 July 21, collected in early morning in the dry meadows. The ex- 

 panse, 18-20 mm., is somewhat more than that given by Walsing- 

 ham; but in other respects, these specimens agree closely with the 

 description, showing very markedly the aeneous tinge of the fore 

 wings. 

 Lampronia piperella Busck. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 15, in dry meadows; one female speci- 

 men which has all the veins of the fore wing present and palpal 

 characters as in the other species of the genus, and not as described 

 for the very similar Greya punctiferella Walsingham. 



CHALCEOPLA nom. nov. 



This generic name is proposed to replace Cyanauges Braun (Ohio 

 Jour. Sci., XX, 24, 1919), preoccupied by Cyanauges Gorham in 

 the Coleoptera. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 21 



Chalceopla itoniella Busck. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 16; Canyon Creek, July 23; Swift- 

 current Valley, July 27 ; flying in sunshine. 



In Chalceopla itoniella veins 7 and 8 of the fore wing are separate, 

 as is also the case in the two following species. The genus Chal- 

 ceopla is most easily recognized by the spreading bristles below 

 and at apex of second segment of the labial palpi, the minute or 

 small maxillary palpi and the two kinds of scales, the greenish or 

 bluish broad scales and the elongate metallic scales. 



Chalceopla cockerelli Busck. 



Two Medicine Lake, July 16. 



Chalceopla ovata n. sp. 



Second segment of labial palpi white, with black bristles, terminal 

 segment black; hairs of head whitish; antennae black. Thorax and 

 fore wings shining bronzy brown, with pale yellowish markings; a 

 small elongate spot in fold near base; a spot on middle of dorsum 

 reaching fold; an oblique curved patch at three-fifths of costa is 

 narrow on the costa, but expands into an oval in the middle of the 

 wing. Hind wings dark brown with a purple tinge, and with dull 

 golden metallic scales on the margin projecting into the cilia. Legs 

 dark brown with a bronzy luster. Expanse, 7.5 mm. 



Type ( 9 ), July 18, on the cliffs on Goat Mountain above Going- 

 to-the-Sun Chalets. 



There is no differentiation in shape between the metallic over- 

 scales and the ordinary scales in this species in the fore wing; on 

 the hind wing, metallic scales are only found at the extreme margin. 



Greya subalba n. sp. 



Labial palpi whitish, third segment black beneath; maxillary 

 palpi short, folded portion reduced to a short segment, which is 

 usually not bent over in the dead insect; antennae gray; head white. 

 Fore wings varying in color from shining white to pale buff, with 

 base of costa fuscous. Hind wings gray, with whitish cilia. Legs 

 white, fuscous shading on the two anterior pair. Expanse, cf , 

 14-16.5 mm.; 9 , 11-14 mm. 



Type (d 1 ), Two Medicine Lake, July 16; twenty-two paratypes 

 (cf and 9), Glacier Park Station, July 14, Two Medicine Lake, 

 July 15-16, McDermott Lake, July 23, all in dry meadows. 



The whitish immaculate fore wings distinguish this species from 

 the others of the genus. The terminal segment of the maxillary 

 palpi is only about half the length of the corresponding part in 

 Greya solenobiella Wlsm. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



MICROPTERYGIDAE. 



ACANTHOPTEROCTETES new genus. 



Labial palpi very short, directed outwardly. Maxillary palpi 

 long, filiform, folded. Tongue short. Head densely rough-haired. 

 Antennae four-fifths, slender, filiform, smoothly scaled, basal seg- 

 ment slightly swollen. Middle tibiae with one apical spur, posterior 

 tibiae smooth, middle and apical spurs long. 



Fore wing: elongate lanceolate, fibula large, second and third 

 anal veins separate and distinct to the margin, Cu and 1st A co- 

 alesced at base, posterior arculus distinct, Cui and Cw 2 distant, 

 base of media distinct, not forked within the cell, forming an almost 

 straight linewith M 3 + 4 , transverse vein perpendicular between Cvi 

 and Ms + 4 , and nearly meeting the very oblique transverse vein 

 between Ms + 4 and R t + 5 , which becomes obsolescent near M 3 + 4 , 

 M2 arising near the middle of the oblique transverse vein, Mi from 

 middle of stalk of R A and Z? 5 , R* and R 6 long stalked, R & to apex, 

 R t + 3 coincident, from near end of cell, #1 from before middle, with 

 an accessory vein, Sc not forked, humeral vein present. 



Hind wing: elongate lanceolate, 

 a little narrower than the fore 

 wing, without frenulum, but with 

 series of costal spines, venation 

 similar to that of the fore wing, 

 with the exception of the anasto- 

 mosis of the first and second anal 

 veins near the base, the absence of the transverse vein between 

 Cui and M 3 + 4 , absence of accessory vein from R t . 

 Genotype, Acanthopteroctetes tripunctata n. sp. 

 The forking of the base of media nearer to the margin than in 

 other Micropterygid genera has resulted in a nearly straight discal 

 vein, and a consequent configuration of the discal cell similar to 

 that in other Lepidoptera. The presence of three separate anal 

 veins in the fore wing is an unusual feature. The presence or ab- 

 sence of a cross-vein between the first and second anal veins of the 

 fore wing could not be observed without injury to the unique type. 

 This genus belongs in the subfamily Eriocranianae, but is not 

 closely related to any described genus. It is nearest to Eriocrania. 

 In addition to the species described below, I have a single speci- 

 men, in rather poor condition, of another species of this genus from 

 the southern Sierras. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



Acanthopteroctetes tripunctata n. sp. 



Palpi brown with a slight golden tinge, hairs of the head reddish 

 brown; antennae blackish brown, basal segment paler. Fore wings 

 brown, with a faint golden and purplish luster, bases of scales a 

 little paler; a slightly irregular yellowish spot on the disc at one- 

 third, at three-fifths, a yellowish costal and an opposite dorsal spot 

 nearly meeting. Scales at apex a little paler. Hind wings brown, 

 a little darker than the fore wings. Legs dark brown. Abdomen 

 dark brown, median line beneath paler. Expanse, 11 mm. 



Type (o"), Canyon Creek, 5500 feet, July 23; flying in sunshine 

 in a forest opening. 



The general appearance of this moth suggests a Tineid rather 

 than a Micropterygid. 




(24) 




SOME FAUNAL REMAINS FROM THE TRIAS OF YORK COUNTY, 

 PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY H. E. WANNER. 



Plants from the Trias of York County have been reported and 

 described under thirty-three species, twelve of which are new. 1 

 In the same region, so productive of fossil flora, faunal remains 

 have been less in evidence. Only three species*, all based on frag- 

 mentary saurian remains, have been described, two by Cope and 

 one by Sinclair. 2 



In the hope that a contribution to the knowledge of the faunal 

 life of this locality would be an acceptable addition to the palaeon- 

 tology of the Newark System, this paper is presented. 3 



1 am indebted to my father for inspiration and for whatever love 

 of the science of geology I possess. He materially assisted in the 

 field work and in the collection of specimens. I am also under obli- 

 gations to Dr. H. A. Pilsbry for counsel and assistance and for the 

 extension of every courtesy in granting me access to the data in 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; to him also 

 belongs the credit for the description and identification of the 

 Mollusca. Dr. John M. Clarke, of the New York State Museum, 

 kindly gave me the benefit of his wide knowledge in the consider- 

 ation of Spirorbis. 



Descriptive Geology. 



The Trias of York County rests, non-comformably, on the Lower 

 Cambrian. 4 This is shown in the railroad cut just north of Emigs- 

 ville. The triassic rocks, dipping N. W. at an angle of 16 degrees, 

 rest on the Lower Cambrian shale and limestone. The latter dip 



^hrenfeld, F. A study of the igneous rocks at York Haven and Stony 

 Brook, Pa. Univ. of Penna., 1898. Wanner, A. Triassic flora of York County, 

 Pa. U. S. Geol. Survey, Ann. Rept., pp. 233-255, 1898-99. 



2 Cope, E. D. Description of vertebrata from the Triassic formations of the 

 United States. Amer. Phil. Soc. Proc, vol. XVII, p. 232, 1878. Sinclair, W. J. 

 A large Parasuchian from the Triassic of Pennsylvania. Amer. Jour. Sci., 

 vol. XLV, pp. 457-462, June, 1918. 



J Most of the field work and the collection of material were done in the sum- 

 mer of 1920. 



* Walcott, C. D. The Cambrian rocks of Pennsylvania. U. S. Geol. Survey, 

 Bull. 134, 1892. 



(25) 




26 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part I 



to the S. W. 5 The basal layer here is a limestone conglomerate. 

 Sandstones, shale and conglomerates occur in the succeeding layers 

 and farther north a large intrusion of diabase. This forms the 

 elevation known as the Conewago hills. All of the rocks examined 

 dip N. W. at an angle varying from 15 to 24 degrees. No evidences 

 of faulting or folding were observed. 



Mf>nChie.5Tl T R 



Fig. 1.— Localities of triassic exposures mentioned herein. 



The localities described in this paper are about three miles north 

 of Emigsville (fig. 1). Taking the average dip as 20 degrees and 

 calculating from the dip and horizontal distances, the productive 

 layers are, approximately, 6600 feet above the basal conglomerate. 7 

 Correlation and definite location of these layers is difficult without 

 a section across the Trias. 



Two columnar sections are given (figs. 2 and 3) showing the rela- 

 tive positions of the productive strata. These sections are of interest 

 because they show the rapid alternation of the sediments. The 

 physical and lithological character of the shale varies considerably 

 even in the same layer. In one place it may be hard and compact 



5 Frazer, P. Penna. Geol. Survey, Report C 3, Sec. 2, 1876. 



6 Russell, I. C. The Newark System. U. S. Geol. Survey, Bull. 85, p. 34, 

 1892. 



7 Ehrenfeld, F. A study of the igneous rocks at York Haven and Stony 

 Brook, Pa. Univ. of Penna., 1898. Wanner, A. Triassic flora of York County, 

 Pa. U. S. Geol. Survey, Ann. Rept., pp. 233-255, 1898-99. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Sin:, 



-Character and 

 v distribution 



}o* 



Heavily bedded 

 micaceous red 

 sandstone 



Triable red 

 shale 



IX 



Green shal'e 



'rfpil ^■i fig - trm ' > 



Green rhale 



Slick shalp 



dcaceoup 

 gr^en eandr-tone 



3o + 



;ir«"en shple 

 "i th -nita 



TK.'.«,I 

 flit 



Character and»- 

 distribution 



Thinly bed led 

 sandstone fith 

 mica and feld- 

 spar, with 

 Tracks 



/? 



Red snale 



Red sandstone 

 Tith co.-1gl~.1- 

 er«\t*" inter- 

 bedded 

 Tooth in the 

 coifclorr.erate 



Thinly bedded 

 friable red 

 r>h,alf> and sand 

 stone riti 

 nica tufa feld- 

 spar. 



He-wily oedded 

 red sandstone 

 »ith mica 



Figs. 2 and 3. — Sections showing relative positions of fossiliferous strata. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



and in another friable and soft. The color may be red or green. 

 Its content of silica, clay, feldspar and mica varies. 



Historical Geology. 



In general, geologists now regard the theory of continental origin 

 of the beds of the Newark System as definitely proven. 8 9 10 



From the floral remains the triassic rocks of York County are 

 placed by Fontaine in the Upper Trias and correlated with the 

 Rhetic of Bavaria. 11 Lull, from the faunal remains of the Con- 

 necticut valley, states that "the Newark System may bridge the 

 time between the Triassic and Jurassic." 12 



The presence of at least five different fresh-water mollusca in 

 the York County Trias is indicative of fresh rather than saline- 

 water conditions. The carbonaceous black shale containing the 

 fish scales and fossil plants proves the presence of luxuriant vege- 

 tation in swamps, or lakes. This conclusion is still further verified 

 by the occurrence of thin coal lenses and numerous casts of limbs. 13 



CRUSTACEANS. 



The shells of two species of small crustaceans are found closely 

 associated in the black shales. These were identified as Candona 

 rogersi (Lea) and Estheria ovata (Jones). 14 The former are found more 

 abundantly and often cover the surface of the matrix in densely 

 crowded masses. Localities: Carbonaceous shale, Little Cone- 

 wago (loc. 3); Black shale, York Haven (loc. 4). 



FISHES. 



The great variety of fish scales (Plate I, figs. 1-17) warrants their 

 presentation. Some of the specimens are sufficiently different from 

 known forms to indicate the presence of new species. The scales 



8 Russell, I. C. The Newark System. U. S. Geol. Survey, Bull. 85, Chapter 

 V, 1892. 



9 Davis, W. M. The Triassic formation of Connecticut. U. S. Geol. Survey, 

 18th Ann. Rept., pp. 32-34, 1898. 



10 Barrell, J. Relations between climatic and terrestrial deposits. Jour. 

 Geol., vol. XVI, pp. 182, 259, 1908. 



11 Ward, L. F. Status of the Mesozoic floras of the United States. U. S. 

 Geol. Survey, 20th Ann. Rept., p. 255, 1898-99. 



12 Lull, R. S. Triassic life of the Connecticut Valley. Geol. and Nat. Hist. 

 Survey of Conn., Bull. 24, p. 20, 1915. 



13 Wherry, E. Sihcified wood from the Trias of Pennsylvania. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Proc, Phila., 1912. 



14 Jones, T. R. A monograph of fossil Estheriae. Palaeontographical Soc, 

 pp. 84, 124, London, 1862. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



occur in a matrix containing macerated and obscured remains of 

 vegetation, an occasional fish spine, and minute fragments of bones. 

 A striking characteristic of nearly all the scales found is their highly 

 enamelled coating. By reason of the fragmentary nature of the 

 material, no attempt has been made at identification. However, 

 because of the enamelled surfaces of the scales, there is probably 

 sufficient justification for provisionally classifying the fishes as 

 ganoids. 15 



Locality: Carbonaceous shale, Little Conewago (loc. 3). 



REPTILIAN REMAINS. 



Coprolites (Plate I, figs. 18, 19) are found associated with the 

 fish remains. These are usually of an elongated, oval form, vary- 

 ing in shape, and from 2 to 60 mm. in length. A cross section made 

 through one of these reveals fish scales and microscopic fragments of 

 bones. 



Localities: Shale, York Haven (loc. 4); Carbonaceous Shale, 

 Little Conewago (loc. 3). 



A few bones and teeth have been found in the Trias of York 

 County. Some of these have been referred to species by Cope and 

 Sinclair. 16 No attempt was made by either of these authorities 

 to locate the horizon. The conglomerate layer shown in the sec- 

 tion made along the Big Conewago creek yielded a fragment of a 

 tooth with serrated edges. An extensive search failed to uncover 

 additional fossil remains, but further search may be productive. 



Locality: Conglomerate, Big Conewago (loc. 2). 



TRACKS. 



Reptilian footprints have been reported from the Trias of York 

 County. 17 Two new localities have produced small tracks on thinly 

 bedded micaceous sandstone. These differ from any previously 

 described from this region. They can be referred to three types. 



One consists of two parallel rows of crescent-shaped impressions 

 with the longer diameter at right angles to the trend of the trail. 

 Spread of track 10 mm. and average distance between successive 

 footprints, 4 mm. (fig. 4, no. 1). 



16 Newberry, J. S. Fossil fishes and fossil plants of the Triassic rocks of New 

 Jersey and the Connecticut Valley. U. S. Geol. Survey, Mon. XIV, 1888. 



16 Cope, E. D. Description of vertebrata from the Triassic formations of 

 the United States. Amer. Phil. Soc. Proc, vol. XVII, p. 232, 1878. Sinclair, 

 W. J. A large Parasuchian from the Triassic of Pennsylvania. Amer. Jour. 

 Sci., vol. XLV, pp. 457-462, June, 1918. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



The second type consists of indistinct, circular tracks. The dis- 

 tance between successive imprints is 15 mm. Running parallel 

 on the same slab, 90 mm. distant, is a similar series; the two are 

 probably associated. Their rounded outlines indicate that these 

 trails were made under water by a creature either wading or swim- 

 ming (fig. 4, no. 2). 



The third type consists of three related impressions, similarly 

 placed. The distance between impressions is 30 mm. The lack 

 of distinctness prevents a more detailed description. From their 

 appearance they were evidently produced under water (fig. 4, no. 3). 



Locality: Sandstones, Big Conewago (loo. 1 & 2). 







O 

 



o 



I) 



V 



o 



Fig. 4.— Tracks. 



MOLLUSKS. 



Shells and casts of different Mollusca were found. Some of them 

 evidently represent new species. Since the literature on the Tri- 

 assic fresh-water Mollusca is meager, it was considered desirable 

 that these specimens should be identified and described by an 

 authority. In consonance with this decision, they were referred 

 to Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, whose report follows. 



The Mollusca so far found belong to the fresh-water families 

 Unionidae and Mutelidae. Species of the former family have been 

 described from the Trias of the Dockum beds of the Staked Plains 



17 Wanner, A. The discovery of fossil tracks in the Trias of York County, 

 Pa. Second Geol. Survey of Penna., Ann. Rept., pp. 31-35, 1887. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



of Texas by C. T. Simpson,^ and from the Connecticut Valley by 

 Emerson and Troxell. 19 All of these authors referred their species 

 to the northern genus Unio; but Simpson subsequently 20 decided 

 that at least part of the Texan species were related to South Amer- 

 ican genera, though he did not expressly alter the generic references. 

 A list of American Triassic species follows : 



Species from the Dockum beds, Staked Plains of Texas: Unio 

 subplanatus, Unio dumblei, Unio graciliratus, Unio dockumensis, all 

 of Simpson. 



Species from Trias of the Connecticut Valley: Unio emersoni 

 Troxell, Unio wilbrahamensis Emerson. 



The third and fourth species, at least, might better be referred 

 to the genus Diplodon, having radial beak sculpture. Probably 

 the others will also prove to have similar sculpture when material 

 sufficiently well preserved comes to hand. 



In three of the York species the radial sculpture of the beaks 

 shows relationship with South American genera, being like that of 

 Diplodon and Hyria, and totally unlike that of Unio and allied 

 genera of the Northern Hemisphere. These species are herein re- 

 ferred to the genus Diplodon. In two other York species the beaks 

 themselves are not preserved well enough to make out their sculp- 

 ture; but as there is corrugation of the posterior slope, it is likely 

 that the beaks are radially folded and that these also are referable 

 to Diplodon. 



The genus Mycetopoda, here recognized as a Mesozoic fossil for 

 the first time, is a South American genus belonging to the Mutelidae, 

 a family of the southern continents. 



The records for Triassic Unionidae are as yet few; but the wide 

 separation of the localities, the presence of several species and 

 their considerable diversity in shape and sculpture in each area, 

 may permit the inference that Triassic North America possessed 

 a large and varied Naiad fauna of South American type, Hyriinae 

 and Mutelidae. The next fauna of these mussels of which we have 

 any definite knowledge is that of the Jurassic in Colorado and Wyo- 

 ming. Here the South American types have entirely disappeared, 

 and in their place are distinctively Holarctic Unioninae, in which 



18 Description of four new Triassic Unios from the Staked Plains of Texas. 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1895, pp. 381-385. 



19 American Journal of Science (4), vol. 38, 1914, p. 460. 



20 Synopsis of the Naiades or Fresh-water Pearly Mussels, 1900. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



the beak sculpture when known is of the concentric type. 21 These 

 were probably immigrants from Asia. Similar forms occur more 

 abundantly in the Laramie. 



Williston, from a study of the reptiles, holds that America was 

 isolated from the Old World throughout the Permian and well 

 into the Triassic, a broad connection being established in the Upper 

 Trias. 22 It appears likely that the subfamilies of Unionidse were 

 differentiated in this long interval from the Pennsylvanian to the 

 Trias, the Unioninse in Eurasia, while America had Hyriine mussels, 

 which disappeared with the. advent of Old World forms in Upper 

 Trias or Jurassic. The migration of Unionidse would doubtless 

 lag far behind that of reptiles after the connection was established. 



Diplodon pennsylvanicus n. sp. PL II, figs. 1 (type), 2, 3; pi. Ill, fig. 4. 



The type consists of the two valves of one individual, spread 

 open. On the same piece of hard gray shale there is another imper- 

 fect valve of the same species. 



The shell is oblong, not unlike a young Unio complanatus (Sol.) 

 in shape, being rather compressed. The beaks are at about the 

 anterior third. The posterior ridge is rounded, a radial depression 

 above it on the posterior slope. Sculpture of numerous folds radi- 

 ating from the beaks and reaching to about the middle of the valve 

 except posteriorly, where they are longer. Below the radial folds 

 there are some low, concentric wrinkles. 



Length 21 mm.; alt. 10.5 mm.; diam. about 6 mm. 



Locality: Shale, Little Conewago Creek (loc. 5). 



The specimen selected as type is not full grown, but the valves 

 are free from distortion, and the sculpture is finely preserved. Adult 

 shells, such as that shown in Plate III, figure 4, reach a length of 32 

 mm., alt. about 18 mm., diam. about 10 mm. The radial sculpture 

 covers a relatively smaller part of the valves, though actually about 

 the same area as in the type. 



Another specimen, obliquely compressed, is shown in dorsal aspect 

 in Plate II, fig. 2. Alt. about 20 mm. 



21 In some of the Laramie and later Uniones there are oblique folds, super- 

 ficially like those of Diplodon, as in Unio (Loxopleurus) belliplicatus Meek; 

 but on the beaks the sculpture is concentric. Certain Uniones described by 

 Whitfield, Bull. Amer. Mus. N. H., XIX and XXIII, from the Montana Laramie, 

 have sculpture recalling Diplodon, but more like the Asiatic Parreysia. They 

 form, I think, a special group, near Parreysia or a subgenus thereof, which may 

 be called Proparreysia, the type being Unio percorrugata Whitfield. 



22 This connection is usually mapped as across the North Atlantic (see Arldt, 

 Handbuch der Palaeogeographie, I, 1919); but it may have been in the north- 

 west. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



The interior of a left valve (Plate II, fig. 3) shows a moderately- 

 deep beak cavity. The muscle scars are indistinct, but so far as 

 visible seem as in Unio. The pseudocardinal teeth are moderately 

 strong, double, nearly smooth. The single blade-like lateral tooth 

 is well developed but short, and rather widely separated from the 

 pseudocardinals. This shell was 32 or 33 mm. long. 



This is the most abundant species; remains of some 14 individuals 

 have been found. 



This species appears to be related to Unio dockumensis Simpson, 

 from the Trias of Garza County, Texas, having similar though more 

 extensive radial corrugation. That shell is about double the size 

 of pennsylvanicus. 



Diplodon borealis n. sp. Figs. 5, a, b, c. 



Three specimens represent a species resembling D. pennsylvanicus, 

 but plumper, smaller (if these are of full growth), with the beaks 

 nearer the middle, at about the anterior two-fifths of the length. 



b c 



Fig. 5. — Diplodon borealis n. sp. 



The sculpture consists of rather widely spaced radial furrows, much 

 narrower than their intervals, which are flattened and show irregular 

 weakly festooned concentric wrinkles in places. At the anterior 

 and posterior ends the radii are finer, and have the form of corru- 

 gations. The best preserved specimen measures: 



Length 14.5 mm., alt. 8.5 mm., diam. 7.3 mm. (fig. 5a). 



Another distorted shell is 20 mm. long (fig. 5b). This is also about 

 the length of the third specimen, in which one valve is partially 

 imbedded in hard shale, and the other somewhat compressed towards 

 the base (fig. 5c). 



Locality: Gray shale, Little Conewago Creek (loc. 5). 




34 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part I 



Diplodon wanneri n. sp. Plate III, flg. 5. 



The shell is oblong, compressed, with small beaks, but little pro- 

 jecting, at about the anterior fourth of the length. The dorsal 

 outline is moderately arched ; anterior end evenly rounded, posterior 

 end somewhat oblique, rounded; basal margin straightened. The 

 posterior ridge is prominent but rounded. Surface is smooth, ex- 

 cept for unequal wrinkles of growth. There is a gray-white cal- 

 careous layer about the thickness of writing paper, covering the 

 shell like a periostracum (broken away in places). The interior 

 is unknown. 



Length 37 mm.; alt. 22 mm.; diam. 11.7 mm. 



No traces of beak sculpture are discernible in the type specimen, 

 which, as mentioned above, is covered with a thin layer of calcite. 

 A much flattened specimen shows the beak sculpture (fig. 6) . There 

 are fine corrugations diverging from the posterior ridge, gradually 

 weakening, and finally disappearing about 17 mm. from the beak. 

 In the median part of the valve the fine corrugations radiating 



Fig. 6. — Beak sculpture of Diplodon wanneri, paratype. Diagrammatic. 



from the beaks are gently curved towards the middle, though only 

 a few -of them meet (Hyria fashion). The branching of the corru- 

 gations produces some faint appearance of zigzag pattern in the 

 middle. In this region the sculpture reaches only about three or 

 four mm. from the beaks. Total length of this shell is about 33 mm. 

 Locality: Shale, Little Conewago Creek (loc. 5). 



Diplodon carolus-simpsoni n. sp. Plate II, figs. 4, 5, 6. 



The type is a left valve, imperfect in the anterior-basal region, 

 with part of the right valve almost wholly imbedded in the hard, 

 dark gray shale. 



The shell is oblong, plump, rather thick (1.6 mm. at about the 

 posterior third). The beaks are full and prominent, near the an- 

 terior end, which is rounded. Posterior end is oblique, being pro- 

 duced at the post-basal extremity. The posterior ridge is prominent 

 and rounded. Sculpture of rather strongly marked lines and wrinkles 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



of growth, and on the posterior ridge, radiating, fine folds; dorsad 

 of the ridge, on the posterior slope, the folds form a dorsally curved 

 corrugation. The ligament is strong and prominent. 



Length 34 mm. ; alt. 22 mm. ; diam. 19 mm. 



Another specimen (Plate II, fig. 6) from the same locality, but 

 from a different bed, is in the conglomerate of a deep brownish 

 drab color. As usual in this rock, the surface is not well preserved, 

 but the outlines are perfect. The corrugation of the posterior slope, 

 distinct in the type, is not legible. It measures: 



Length 45.5 mm.; alt. 25 mm.; semi-diam. 9.5 mm. 



In outline, this species resembles Unio graciliratus Simpson of the 

 Dockum beds, Dickens County, Texas; but in that shell the lira- 

 tions of the posterior slope appear to run parallel to the posterior 

 ridge, not diverging upwards towards the ligament, as in the Penn- 

 sylvanian species; also they continue to the posterior end, while in 

 our species the corrugated area is much less extended. 



It is named in honor of Mr. Charles T. Simpson, whose work 

 initiated the modern classification of Unionidae. 



Locality: Shale, Little Conewago Creek (loc. 5). 



Diplodon yorkensis n. sp. Plate III, figs. 2, 2a. 



The type is a nearly perfect specimen showing nothing suggesting 

 distortion of the original form. 



The shell is long, narrow and plump, the diameter and altitude 

 about equal. The moderately full beaks are about 28 per cent, of 

 the length from the anterior end, which is rounded. The posterior 

 end slopes obliquely, the posterior-basal angle being produced. 

 The posterior ridge is prominent, rounded, the basal margin straight, 

 the middle of the valves flat. The surface shows rather strong, 

 unequal wrinkles of growth where best preserved. On the dorsal 

 slope there appears to be some trace of fine, curved, radial corru- 

 gation posterior of the beaks. 



Length 32 mm.; alt. 11.5 mm.; diam. 11.7 mm. 



This species is quite distinct by its long, plump shape. Since 

 the above account was written a second specimen has been found. 

 In this the valves are spread partly open. Each shows a depression 

 running from the beaks obliquely downward and backward to the 

 basal margin. There are radial riblets on the beaks, though mostly 

 obliterated, and a fine corrugation on the dorsal slope behind the 

 beaks, the corrugations radiating from the posterior ridge and curv- 

 ing towards the dorsal margin, thus confirming the indistinct traces 

 of such sculpture shown by the type specimen. This shell is larger 

 than the type, 40 mm. long, and similar in other proportions. 



Locality: Shale, Little Conewago Creek (loc. 5). 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Mycetopoda diluculi n. sp. Plate III, flg. 1. 



The single example is imbedded in reddish shale, showing part 

 of one side and a section, from presumably near the anterior end, 

 which is broken away. 



The shell is quite compressed, apparently rather thin, of long, 

 narrow, straight form. The surface shows distinct wrinkles of 

 growth, which by their outlines indicate a rather strongly tapering 

 posterior end. 



The length of the part preserved is 99 mm. Alt. at broken end 

 30 mm.; further back, where the ventral margin is visible, the alt. 

 is about 25 mm. Diam. at broken end 9.5 mm. 



Mycetopoda is a recent genus of South America, with a few species 

 as far north as Nicaragua and Guatemala. While the generic refer- 

 ence of the fossil is not positive, the interior being unknown, its 

 characters, so far as they are legible, agree well with Mycetopoda, 

 and appear to indicate this genus or one closely similar. 



Locality: Shale, Little Conewago Creek (loc. 5). 



POLYCHAETA. 



Spirorbis inexpectatus n. sp. Plate III, flg. 3. 



In the "red" (deep brownish drab) shale there are small, spiral 

 bodies resembling the tubes of Spirorbis. They occur in groups 

 scattered on surfaces of uncertain nature, or sometimes shells. They 

 occur about half immersed in the matrix, or somewhat deeper. 



The spiral is in one plane. The largest individuals measure 

 2 mm. About one and a half turns seem to be present, but only 

 the last is clearly seen. This increases in width rather slowly, 

 always in clockwise direction. The surface of the spiral shows 

 sculpture of weak, retractively radial folds on the lateral convexity, 

 and there are also fine striae in the same direction. The tube appears 

 to be oval in section, its periphery rounded. 



From the uniform direction of coil it appears that the same side 

 is always exposed, the under side probably being attached. 



Locality: Shale, Little Conewago Creek (loc. 5). 



Feeling some uncertainty about these fossils a specimen was 

 submitted to Dr. John M. Clarke, who reported as follows: 



"I think there is little doubt that the specimen you have sent 

 to me is Spirorbis. These tube-secreting worms show themselves 

 to have been highly adaptable throughout Mesozoic and Paleozoic 

 history. In the Carboniferous their tubes cover the leaves of coal 

 plants and they are not unknown to us attached to terrestrial water- 

 carried plants of the Devonian. 



"This specimen before me carries the impression of a leaf or the 

 interior of some thin-shelled mollusk which might well have been 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921 



WANNER: FAUNAL REMAINS FROM YORK COUNTY. 





• V 



PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE II. 



WANNER: FAUNAL REMAINS FROM YORK COUNTY. 





,(- 



PROC. ACAD. NAT. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE III 



tft>lf - 



WANNER: FAUNAL REMAINS PROM YORK COUNTY. 





1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



washed out from the land into the brackish or salt waters and thus 

 given the worm a chance for attachment. You will notice that 

 with the coiled shells there are little ostracodes which are also in- 

 dicative of brackish water conditions. It would be perfectly orderly 

 to find this specimen in continental sediments." 



Explanation or Plates I-III. 



Plate I. — Figs. 1-17. Various forms of fish scales. 

 Figs. 18, 19. Coprolite, exterior and section. 



Plate II. — Fig. 1. Diplodon pennsylvanicus n. sp. Type. 



Fig. 2. Diplodon pennsylvanicus. Dorsal view of an obliquely compressed 



specimen. 

 Fig. 3. Diplodon pennsylvanicus. Interior of another specimen. 

 Figs. 4, 5. Diplodon carolus-simpsoni n. sp. Type, dorsal and lateral 



views. 

 Fig. 6. Diplodon carolus-simpsoni. Lateral view of a larger specimen, in 



red shale. 



Plate III. — Fig. 1. Mycetopoda diluculi n. sp. Type, lateral view. 



Figs. 2, 2a. Diplodon yorkensis n. sp. Type, dorsal and lateral views. 



Fig. 3. Spirorbis inexpectatus n. sp. Type and paratypes. 



Fig. 4. Diplodon pennsylvanicus n. sp. 



Fig. 5. Diplodon wanneri n. sp. Type, lateral view. 




(38) 




NEW OR LITTLE-KNOWN CRANE-FLIES FROM THE AMAZONIAN REGION. 



BY CHARLES P. ALEXANDER. 



The crane-flies that inhabit the vast extent of the Amazonian 

 basin are, unfortunately, still very insufficiently known. The pi- 

 oneer collecting of Henry W. Bates has been supplemented in recent 

 years principally by the work of Herbert S. Parish, whose two trips, 

 in 1912 and in 1919-1920, have given us almost our sole knowledge 

 of this remarkable fauna. The crane-flies collected on Parish's 

 first trip have been recorded by the writer in other papers (1912- 

 1914) that are cited in the bibliography at the end of the paper. 

 The material secured on the second and more extended excursion 

 has been discussed in part in three short papers by the writer (1920). 

 Most of the new species secured on this trip, especially in the terri- 

 tory of the Upper Amazons, are reserved for consideration in the 

 present paper. In order to complete the report, the comparatively 

 few and scattered records of Amazonian Tipuloidea described in 

 other papers are included herein. The types are in the collection 

 of the writer; and paratypes of many of the species in the collection 

 of the American Entomological Society. 



Mr. Parish has kindly supplied the writer with a brief account 

 of his trip which is recorded here to give a clear idea of the itinerary 

 of the 1919-1920 excursion: 



"I left New York on the 25th of May, 1919, and after a pleasant 

 voyage of fourteen days arrived off the Brazilian coast. * * * 

 The first place which I was to visit was the city of Para, situated 

 175 miles up the Para River, one of the tributaries of the Amazon. 

 Para or Belem is one of the finest cities in the tropics. Its parks 

 and buildings are strictly up-to-date and it also boasts of having 

 a completely equipped electric car-line. A branch of this line runs 

 out to Waterworks, the first place where I collected on this trip. 

 Here in the dense woods that surround the waterworks, and for 

 miles around in this district, I collected many different species of 

 insects, including numerous crane-flies. After remaining in this 

 place for ten days, I travelled by railroad eastward to Igarape- 

 Assii and Prat a, where the collecting proved excellent, but great 

 numbers of the insects collected were destroyed by ants and mold 

 caused by the damp climate. From here I continued up the Ama- 

 zon, my next stop being Santarem, about 400 miles from the coast. 

 The forest here was scanty and the insects correspondingly scarce, 



(39) 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



so I remained for only three days. The next stage of the journey 

 was on a river steamer travelling to Obidos (Obydos, Bates). On 

 board the steamer I was able to collect numbers of insects around 

 the electric lights. The thick forest around Obidos is rich in game 

 and insects are plentiful. It is what might be called a "Natural- 

 ist's Paradise." Here the largest of its genus, a tree-top flyer, 

 Morpho hecuba, is found. To offset the pleasures of this paradise, 

 mosquitoes are extremely bad both day and night. I left Obidos, 

 travelling by night about 150 miles up the Trombetas River to a 

 village called Oximinia, a small place with about 600 people, situ- 

 ated on the edge of the forest. This place is very secluded and 

 rarely visited by naturalists. After ten days of good collecting I 

 returned to Obidos. From Obidos I continued my way up the 

 Amazon to Parintins and thence to the town of Itacoatiara (Ita- 

 coatiara or Serpa, Bates). I remained there for three weeks and 

 then pushed on to Manaos (Barra or Manaos, Bates), a beautiful 

 city situated on a hill. After collecting about the outskirts of this 

 city for a few days, I moved on to a place called Flores, about ten 

 miles out from Manaos on the electric line. Here I was successful in 

 making a large catch of insects, many being new to science. 



Teffe (Ega, Bates), about 300 miles up the Solimoes River, an- 

 other of the main tributaries of the Amazon, was my next objective. 

 The settlement here seemed to be almost the same as when Bates 

 was here over sixty years ago, excepting the fine brick building 

 erected by the Roman Catholics as a residence for their priests. 

 The most striking thing to me was the luxuriance of the vegetation 

 around Teffe Lake and the abundance of Micro-Lepidoptera and 

 Diptera. While at Teffe I managed to ward off a severe attack of 

 malaria which was threatening me. I stayed in this vicinity for 

 two months and then boarded the steamer "Belem," travelling 

 further up the Solimoes to Iquitos, in the Peruvian Department of 

 Loreto. This trip required ten days. While on board the steamer 

 I was able to catch a number of inseets attracted to the electric 

 lights at night. Landing at Iquitos, I found it to be a large, up-to- 

 date city, not very far behind our northern cities. The forest about 

 the place proved excellent for collecting. One day while walking 

 in the forest, I noticed a hole in the side of a bank, apparently the 

 entrance of some animal's burrow. By swishing my net about 

 the entrance, I caught four or five crane-flies and later on found 

 the same occurrence, the crane-flies representing one or two spe- 

 cies. At this place, crane-flies were noted in numbers swarming 

 in the sunlight. After two weeks' time, I caught a steam launch 

 that plies between this place and Yurimaguas on the Huallaga 

 River, a distance of some 550 to 600 miles. Here I lived with an 

 Indian family who were very hospitable. Looming up in the west 

 I could see the Andes Mountains. I procured a guide through my 

 Indian host and took a walk into the forest. The air here seemed 

 much fresher than that of the low-lying regions of the Amazonian 

 Basin. I remained at Yurimaguas for about a month and then 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



returned to Iquitos. Here I accepted the invitation to accompany 

 a prospector who was going up the Napo River. We left Iquitos 

 at about three o'clock one afternoon in a small canoe. Our party 

 consisted of five, including the Indian paddlers. The first night, 

 after supper, I got out my collecting apparatus, consisting of a white 

 sheet, lamp, cyanide bottles and net, and after fixing the sheet and 

 lighting the lamp, I was ready for the insects. They started to 

 come in twos and threes, but in about ten minutes they came so 

 fast that I had to call my prospector friend to my assistance. Even 

 then they were in such numbers that we could not get them all. 

 It took me all of the next day to pin and paper this material. Each 

 succeeding night while on the Napo River, I was able to add numer- 

 ous specimens to my collection. The animal life, especially the 

 birds and fishes, was extremely abundant. I was very sorry when 

 the time came to leave this place and return to Iquitos. From 

 here I caught the river steamer down the Amazon and returned 

 to Canada after an absence of more than a year." 



The Facies of the Amazonian Tipulid Fauna. 



The known Amazonian crane-flies represent a comparatively large 

 number of species distributed in a few relatively large genera. The 

 tribes and subfamilies of the Tipulidae found here are the Limno- 

 biini, Hexatomini, Eriopterini and Tipulinae. The families Tany- 

 deridae, Ptychopteridae and Rhyphidae, and the Pediciini and 

 Cylindrotominae of the Tipulidae, have not been discovered in 

 Amazonian territory. The following genera are comparatively well 

 represented in number of species: Dicranomyia, Geranomyia, Rhi- 

 yidia, Gonomyia, Erioptera, Gnophomyia, Trentepohlia, Psaronius, 

 Polymera, Ozodicera and Brachypremna. Other genera that are 

 very characteristic of this general region, although more scantily 

 represented in number of species, are as follows: Rhamphidia, 

 Diotrepha, Ceratocheilus, Toxorhina and Lecteria. The following 

 genera and subgenera appear to be confined to the Amazonian 

 and Guianian sub-regions: Molophilus (Eumolophilus) , Ctenolim- 

 nophila, and Microtipula. A few genera in the Amazonian region 

 have been taken as yet only on the Upper Amazons in Peruvian 

 territory; these are as follows: Elephantomyia, Cryptolabis and 

 Orimarga. 



Genus GERANOMYIA Haliday. 

 1833. Geranomyia Haliday, Ent. Mag., vol. 1, p. 154. 



The very large and complex genus Geranomyia finds its center 

 of distribution in the Neotropical Region. Many species are widely 

 distributed but others seem to be rather local in their range, this 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



latter condition possibly being explainable in many instances by 

 our still insufficient knowledge of tropical American Tipulidae. 



Geranomyia recondita sp. n. 



Rostrum relatively short; head yellowish gray with a narrow 

 silvery gray line extending the length of the vertex, behind the 

 eyes bordered with dusky black; mesonotal praescutum ochreous, 

 heavily striped with reddish brown to plumbeous brown; scutellum 

 pale, pleura suffused with greenish; legs uniformly brown in color; 

 wings yellowish gray with a relatively heavy brown and gray pat- 

 tern, this including three conspicuous costal areas, the two largest 

 at the origin of Rs and the stigma; Sc short, extending but a short 

 distance beyond the origin of Rs. 



Male. — Length (excluding rostrum) 7-7.2 mm.; wing 7-8.7 mm. 

 rostrum about 3.3-3.4 mm. . 



Female. — Length (excluding rostrum) 7-7.5 mm.; wing 8.2-9.3 

 mm.; rostrum about 3.2 mm. 



Rostrum relatively short, black. Antennae black. Head yellow- 

 ish gray; a narrow median line of silvery gray extending the length 

 of the vertex; on either side of this line, behind the eyes, a dusky 

 black area. Mesonotal praescutum ochreous, heavily striped with 

 darker; a narrow reddish brown median stripe that becomes obliter- 

 ated before the suture; lateral stripes darker brown, sometimes 

 plumbeous, behind the pseudosutural foveae broadly expanded lat- 

 erad, behind crossing the suture onto the scutal lobes; median area of 

 the scutum and the scutellum pale greenish white; postnotum with 

 the median sclerite brownish plumbeous, the lateral sclerites pale. 

 Pleura whitish, slightly pruinose, with very strong light green tints 

 in fresh specimens. Halteres pale brown, the knobs darker. Legs 

 with the coxae greenish testaceous; trochanters testaceous; re- 

 mainder of the legs brown, the tarsi darker; the femora are unvari- 

 egated with other colors; claws small, at the base of each with a 

 comb of four or five teeth that decrease in size toward the base. 

 Wings with a yellowish gray tinge; cells C and Sc strongly yellow- 

 ish; wings with a heavy brown and gray pattern, there being three 

 conspicuous brown spots along the costal margin; one at the super- 

 numerary crossvein in cell Sc, the second at the origin of Rs and 

 tip of Sc, the third at the stigma; less distinct, gray, clouds and 

 seams along the cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 and at the ends 

 of veins R 2 +z, 1st A and 2nd A; veins dark brown, yellow in the 

 pale costal areas. Venation: Sc relatively short, Sci ending a short 

 distance beyond the origin of Rs, this distance about equal to r; 

 Sd at the tip of Sc x ; Rs long, gently arcuated; basal deflection of 

 7^4+s shorter than the basal deflection of Cui\ cell 1st M 2 long and 

 narrow, longer than vein M 3 beyond it, about equal to vein Mi+i 

 beyond it; basal deflection of Cui at or beyond the fork of M. Ab- 

 domen reddish brown, the sternites more greenish. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Iquitos, May 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Allotopotype, 9 . 



Paratopotype, 2 9 's, May 6-25, 1920; paratypes, 8 d" 9 , Yuri- 

 maguas, April 6-22, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Geranomyia xanthoplaca sp. n. 



Head dusky black; a narrow yellowish gray stripe extending 

 from the front to the occiput; flagellar segments with long verticils; 

 mesonotal praescutum orange-rufus, the lateral margins narrowly 

 greenish; femora pale brown, the tips broadly pale yellow; a broad 

 subterminal dark brown ring; wings faintly yellow; five conspicuous 

 brown spots along the costal region, the third covering the origin 

 of Rs and the tip of Sc, the latter short, extending but a short dis- 

 tance beyond the origin of Rs. 



Male. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 4.8 mm.; wing 6 mm.; 

 rostrum alone about 2.8 mm. 



Female. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 4.6 mm.; wing 5.5 

 mm. ; rostrum alone about 2.7-2.8 mm. 



Rostrum black, comparatively short but slender. Antennae with 

 the scapal segments black, the flagellum paler, dark brown; flagellar 

 segments cylindrical or elongate-oval with long verticils in both 

 sexes. Head with a conspicuous yellowish gray stripe extending 

 from the front to the occiput, subequal in width to the space between 

 the eyes at their narrowest point; remainder of the vertex and occi- 

 put dusky black. Mesonotal praescutum intense orange-rufous, 

 without apparent darker stripes, the lateral margin narrowly green- 

 ish, the sublateral regions paler than the median stripe; remainder 

 of the mesonotum yellowish testaceous, the posterior half of the 

 postnotum darkened. In the female the scutal lobes are slightly 

 darkened. Pleura yellow with greenish tints. Halteres pale, the 

 knobs greenish brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters green- 

 ish testaceous; femora pale brown, paler basally, the tips broadly 

 (0.65 mm.) pale yellow; a broad subterminal dark brown annulus, 

 this about equal in extent to the pale tip; the femora basad of this 

 brown ring are narrowly and indistinctly yellowish; tibiae and tarsi 

 greenish brown, the tips of the tibiae and distal tarsal segments 

 darker; third and fourth tarsal segments with a series of fine comb- 

 like bristles; claws with the basal shoulder indistinctly toothed. 

 Wings with a faint yellowish tinge, the costal and subcostal cells 

 brighter yellow; five conspicuous brown spots along the costal mar- 

 gin, arranged as follows: at ar cuius; at the supernumerary cross- 

 vein in cell Sc; the third at the origin of Rs and tip of Sc 2 ; the fourth 

 at the stigma, large and elongate; the last mark at the tip of R 2 + 3 ; 

 large gray clouds at the ends of the anal veins; comparatively nar- 

 row gray seams along the cord and outer end of cell 1st M*; veins 

 yellow, brown in the infuscated areas. Venation: Sc short, Sci 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



extending but a short distance beyond the origin of Rs, Set close 

 to the tip of Sci; Rs long, slightly angulated at origin; r more than 

 its own length from the tip of R u - cell 1st M 2 long and narrow, longer 

 than any of the veins issuing from it; basal deflection of Cu t before 

 to immediately beyond the fork of M. Abdominal tergites light 

 brown, the sternites a little paler. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d", Iquitos, May 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotype, 9, Yurimaguas, April 22, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Geranomyia bicincta sp. n. 



Head dusky black; a narrow silvery gray stripe extending from 

 the front to the occiput; flagellar segments with very long verticils; 

 mesonotal praescutum orange, the lateral margins broadly pale 

 brown, margined internally by a delicate gray line; femora obscure 

 yellow, brightened at the end of the segment, the tip and a narrow 

 subterminal ring dark brown; penultimate tarsal segment with a 

 comb of about eight spines on the distal half; wings faintly yellow- 

 ish with four small brown spots along the costa, the one at the 

 origin of Rs separated from the one at the tip of Sc, the latter vein 

 long, extending to beyond midlength of Rs. 



Male. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 4.5 mm.; wing 5.8 mm., 

 rostrum alone about 2.8 mm. 



Female. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 6.8 mm.; wing 6.7 

 mm.; rostrum alone about 3.8 mm. . 



Rostrum moderately long and slender, brownish black. Anten- 

 nae black, the distal flagellar segments a little paler; flagellar seg- 

 ments with unusually long verticils. Head with the vertex between 

 the eyes narrow, silvery gray, this color continued caudad to the 

 occiput; remainder of the vertex dusky black. Mesonotal prae- 

 scutum orange, the lateral margins broadly pale brown; viewed 

 from above these lateral margins appear much darker brown and 

 there is a narrow silvery gray line between them and the orange 

 disk; remainder of the mesonotum obscure yellowish. Pleura yel- 

 lowish testaceous, the dorsal sclerites diffusely plumbeous. Halteres 

 pale, the knobs brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters testa- 

 ceous; femora obscure yellow, the end of the segment brighter than 

 the base, the extreme apex narrowly dark brown; a short distance 

 from the tip is a narrow dark brown ring, this about equal in extent 

 to the yellow subterminal ring; tibiae and tarsi brown; the pen- 

 ultimate and antepenultimate tarsal segments each bear a comb of 

 spines on the inner face but that on the penultimate segment is here 

 confined to the distal half of the segment and is composed of only 

 about eight spines; terminal tarsal segment comparatively short 

 and without a distinct comb; claws slender, the outermost of the 

 teeth at the base of the claws produced into a long, hairlike point. 

 Wings with a faint yellowish tinge, brighter in the costal and sub- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



costal cells; four small brown spots along the costa, the first at the 

 supernumerary crossvein in cell Sc; the second at the origin of Rs; 

 the third at the tip of Sc; the last at the stigma; narrow and indis- 

 tinct seams along the cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 ; veins yellow, 

 darker in the infuscated areas. Venation: Sc long, Sci extending 

 to about opposite two-thirds the length of the long Rs, Sc 2 at the 

 tip of Sc t ; Rs long, slightly angulated at origin; cell 1st M 2 moder- 

 ately long, about equal to vein Mi +2 beyond it; basal deflection 

 of Cui at the fork of M, subequal to Cu 2 . Abdomen light brown; 

 the sternites paler, brownish yellow. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, <?, Iquitos, May 10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, o 71 . 



Geranomyia bicincta angusticincta subsp. n. 



Male. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 5 mm.; wing 6.4 mm.; 

 rostrum alone 3.5 mm. 



Female. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 6.4 mm.; wing 6.1- 

 6.3 mm. 



In general resembling typical bicincta. Size slightly larger. 

 Mesonotal praescutum, viewed from above, with indications of a 

 pale brown median stripe. Femora without the darkened apices; 

 terminal three segments of tarsi with a comb of spinous bristles, 

 those on the penultimate segment including the entire length with 

 the exception of a narrow space at base; ultimate segment with a 

 comb on the distal half. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, cf, Yurimaguas, April 10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Allotopotype, 9 . 



Paratopotypes, 4 c? 9 , April 10-16, 1920; paratype, 9 , Iquitos, 

 Peru, May 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Geranomyia ptlipes Walker. 



1856. Geranomyia pilipes Walker, Insecta Saundersiana, vol. 1, Dipt., 

 p. 440. 



This species was described from the Amazonian Region. Mr. 

 Edwards writes me that the type is not to be found in the British 

 Museum collection. The species is notable by its unusual size 

 (length 10 mm.; wing expanse 20 mm.). 



Geranomyia separata sp. n. 



Head dark brown, the pale line on the anterior part of the vertex 

 not reaching the occiput; mesonotum reddish yellow, the prae- 

 scutum with three narrow dark brown stripes; femora brownish 

 yellow, the tips broadly light yellow with a narrow subterminal 

 brown ring; wings grayish subhyaline, spotted with brown, the 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



spots at the origin of Rs and the tip of Sc separate; Sc rather long, 

 extending to about one-third the length of Rs. 



Male. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 6.4 mm.; wing 6.4 mm. 

 Female. — Length (excluding rostrum) 7.6 mm.; wing 8 mm.; ros- 

 trum alone 2.6 mm. 



Rostrum black, in the male type broken, in the females rela- 

 tively short. Antennae brownish black. Head dark brown, the 

 vertex between the eyes more grayish, this color extending back- 

 ward but not attaining the occiput. Mesonotal praescutum reddish 

 yellow with three distinct narrow dark brown stripes; lateral mar- 

 gins of the praescutum infuscated; scutal lobes with the proximal 

 margins dark brown, the median area and the scutellum whitish; 

 postnotum dark brown, somewhat plumbeous. Pleura obscure yel- 

 low; the dorso-pleural region darker. Halteres pale brown, the 

 knobs dark brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light 

 yellow; femora pale brown, yellowish basally, darkening to beyond 

 midlength, thence suddenly light yellow, at about midlength of 

 this yellow tip with a narrow brownish black annulus; tibiae light 

 brown, the tips blackened; tarsi light brown, passing into black at 

 the tips. Wings grayish subhyaline, cells C and Sc more yellowish; 

 a rather heavy brown pattern arranged as follows : Base of cell Sc; 

 a broad seam on the supernumerary crossvein in cell Sc; a seam 

 at the origin of Rs, continued some distance down the vein; an 

 entirely separate seam at the tip of Sc; stigma large, subtriangular ; 

 cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 seamed with brown; a cloud along 

 vein 2nd A near its outer end. Venation: Sc rather long, Sci ex- 

 tending some distance beyond the origin of Rs, about opposite 

 one-third the length of Rs; Rs long, slightly angulated near origin; 

 r-m short; cell 1st M 2 a little shorter than ikfi-H beyond it; basal 

 deflection of Cux just before the fork of M. Abdomen dark brown, 

 the sternites paler. 



Habitat. — Brazil, Peru. 



Holotype, cf, Yurimaguas, April 16, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotopotype, 9 , April 12, 1920. 



Paratype, 9 , Teffe, Brazil, January 9, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



The paratype from Teffe is larger and brighter colored than the 

 allotype but undoubtedly pertains to this species. Geranomyia 

 separata resembles G. insignis Loew and related species, but is 

 readily told by the longer subcosta with the dark marking at the 

 origin of Rs separate from that at the end of Sc. 



Geranomyia cinereinota Alexander. 



1913. Geranomyia cinereinota Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 24, p. 407. 



Teffe, Brazil, December 7, 1919, to February 4, 1920 (H. S. 

 Parish) . 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Yurimaguas, Peru, April 5, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 6-16, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus DICRANOMYIA Stephens. 

 1829. Dicranomyia Stephens, Cat. Brit. Ins., vol. 2, p. 243. 



In the territory of the Brazilian Amazons, species of the genus 

 Dicranomyia appear to be very uncommon both as regards species 

 and individuals. In Peruvian territory, however, they become 

 more numerous. 

 Dicranomyia capnora sp. n. 



Antennae dark brown, the first scapal segment white; front and 

 anterior part of the vertex silvery-white pubescent; vertex with a 

 conspicuous conical tubercle; mesonotum yellowish orange, the 

 lateral margins darkening into clove-brown; legs pale testaceous 

 yellow, the tarsi and tips of the tibiae white; wings deep smoky, 

 the costal and apical regions more intense; a narrow dark pattern 

 along the cord, outer end. of cell 1st M 2 and origin of Rs; Sc long. 



Male. — Length 5.5-6.5 mm.; wing 7.7-8.3 mm. 

 Female. — Length 6.6 mm. ; wing 7.8 mm. * 



Rostrum and palpi brownish black. Antennae with the first 

 segment of the scape silvery-white; remainder of the antennae dark 

 brown; the flagellar segments in the male are long-cylindrical, each 

 with a short basal pedicel that is paler than the rest of the segment. 

 Head moderately broad; front and anterior part of the vertex pure 

 silvery-white; remainder of the head dark brown; vertex produced 

 into a conspicuous conical elevation that is directed dorsad and 

 slightly caudad. Mesonotal praescutum with the broad median 

 area conspicuous yellowish orange, gradually darkening into clove- 

 brown on the lateral margins of the sclerite; median area of the 

 scutum and the scutellum yellowish orange, the lateral areas darker ; 

 postnotum pale brown. Pleura testaceous yellow. Halteres dark 

 brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light yellow; femora 

 and tibiae pale testaceous yellow, the apex of the tibiae and the 

 tarsi excepting the terminal segment white; last tarsal segment and 

 the claws blackish. Wings with a strong smoky tinge, more intense 

 along the costal and apical regions; the basal, posterior and anal 

 cells sometimes with paler centers; a sparse darker brown pattern, 

 these spots arranged as follows : at origin of Rs; tip of Sc; r; along 

 the cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 ; veins dark brown. Venation: 

 Sc long, extending to beyond midlength of the long Rs, Sc 2 at the 

 tip of Sci; Rs strongly angulated to slightly spurred at origin; de- 

 flection of Ri+s about equal to the basal deflection of Cu^; cell 

 1st M 2 closed, comparatively short; basal deflection of Cui close 

 to the fork of M but slightly variable in position, longer than Cu 2 . 

 Abdominal tergites dark brown, the sternites and hypopygium 

 more yellowish brown. Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



appendage a rather stout, almost straight, flattened hook with the 

 tip slightly curved; ventral pleural appendage an oval flattened 

 lobe, the inner face produced proximad into a flattened glabrous 

 lobe, the tip with a few delicate setae. Gonapophyses appearing 

 as broad flattened plates with the outer proximal angle narrowed 

 into a point. Ovipositor with the valves very short, the tergal 

 valves slender, acicular, strongly curved; sternal valves compressed, 

 the tips subacute. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Napo River, June 12, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotopotype, 9 , June 16, 1920. 



Paratopotypes, 6 cf's, June 12-14, 1920; paratype, 9, Yuri- 

 maguas, March 31, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Dicranomyia capnora is a striking species that finds its closest 

 relative in D. lutzi Alexander (British Guiana) from which it differs 

 in the details of coloration of the body, wings and legs. 



Dicranomyia optabilis sp. n. 



Antennae dark brown; head yellowish gray; mesonotal prae- 

 scutum reddish with a broad black median stripe ; postnotum, scutel- 

 lum and lobes of the scutum dark brown; pleura yellow and dark 

 brown; halteres yellow; fore coxae dark brown; hind coxae yellow; 

 femora brownish yellow with a very broad black subterminal ring; 

 wings yellowish, the basal quarter and a conspicuous seam along 

 the cord brownish; vein Sc long; abdominal segments dark brown, 

 the distal half of each segment yellowish. 



Female. — Length 6.6 mm.; wing 7.5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae dark brown, the 

 flagellar segments cylindrical, each with a short pedicel. Head 

 dark, yellowish gray pruinose. Mesonotal praescutum shiny red- 

 dish castaneous with a broad black median stripe; lateral stripes 

 short, confluent with the posterior ends of the median stripe; a 

 large circular brown spot on the posterior margin of the sclerite; 

 scutal lobes shiny brownish black, the median area paler; post- 

 notum and the median area of the scutellum black, the lateral por- 

 tions pale. Pleura with the propleura, mesosternum, mesepisternum 

 and the lateral sclerites of the postnotum shiny dark brown; re- 

 mainder of the pleura yellowish. Halteres yellow, the outer por- 

 tion of the stem a little darkened. Legs with the fore coxae dark 

 brown; middle coxae slightly infuscated, hind coxae yellowish; tro- 

 chanters obscure yellow; femora brownish yellow, before the tips 

 passing into a broad black subterminal ring, the extreme apices 

 very narrowly obscure yellow; remainder of the legs black, the 

 bases of the tibiae a little paler. Wings with a yellowish tinge, 

 variegated with brown; stigma ova), dark brown; a broad basal 

 crossband, slightly paler brown than the stigma, occupies more 

 than the basal quarter of the wing; a broad brown seam along the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



cord, tip of Sc and origin of Rs, broader and more diffuse posteriorly; 

 wing-tip and a faint seam along the outer end of cell 1st M 2 faintly- 

 darkened; veins yellow, brown on the infuscated areas. Venation: 

 Sc long, Sci extending to about opposite two-thirds the length of 

 Rs, Sc 2 at the tip of Sci; Rstraiher short, angulated and slightly 

 spurred at origin, inner end of cell 1st M 2 and m slightly arcuated; 

 basal deflection of Cui just beyond the fork of M. Abdominal 

 segments with the basal half of each dark brown, the apical half 

 yellowish. Ovipositor with the tergal valves slender, strongly up- 

 curved, the tips acute; sternal valves long, terete, tapering gradually 

 to the subacute apices. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, 9 , Napo River, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Dicranomyia eiseni (Alexander) 



1912. Furcomyia eiseni Alexander, Can. Ent., vol. 44, pp. 338, 339. 



Igarape Assii, Brazil, July 14, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Manaos, Brazil, November 4, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Dicranomyia amazonica Alexander. 



1920. Dicranomyia amazonica Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 28, 

 pp. 2, 3. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, July 16, 1919 (H. S. Parish); Type. 

 Obidos, Brazil, September 10, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Dicranomyia egae sp. n. Plate IV, fig. 10. 



Antennae brownish black, flagellar segments cylindrical, short- 

 petiolate; mesonotal praescutum brownish yellow with a very broad 

 shiny black stripe ; legs dark brown, the bases of the femora yellow- 

 ish; wings brownish gray; Sc long; abdomen dark brown; male 

 hypopygium highly complicated in structure. 



Male. — Length 6.4 mm.; wing 6 mm. 

 Female. — Length 6.8 mm. ; wing 6.4 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi brownish black. Antennae brownish black 

 throughout; flagellar segments oval to cylindrical, each with a short 

 basal petiole. Head dark brown. Pronotum yellowish, black medi- 

 ally. Mesonotal praescutum brownish yellow with a single, very 

 broad shiny black stripe that widens out strongly behind, suffusing 

 the scutal lobes; extreme lateral margin of the praescutun with a 

 brownish spot; median area of the scutum yellowish; scutellum 

 dark brown, narrowly margined caudally with pale; postnotum 

 dark brown. Pleura obscure yellow, the mesepisternum largely dark 

 brown. Mesosternum brownish. Halteres yellow, the knobs dark 

 brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light yellow; remainder 

 of the legs dark brown, the femoral bases yellowish, narrowest on 

 the fore legs, broadest on the posterior legs; claws slender with no 

 teeth except at the base. Wings brownish gray, the costal region 

 and the apex indistinctly darkened; stigma slightly darker brown, 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



ill-defined; veins brown. Venation: Sc long, ending just before 

 the fork of the long sector, Sc 2 at the tip of Sci; Rs long, almost 

 straight; r at the tip of R h ' basal deflection of # 4 + s about twice 

 r-m; cell 1st M 2 pentagonally rectangular, a little longer than vein 

 Cui beyond it; basal deflection of Oui just before the fork of M, 

 longer than Cu 2 alone. Abdomen dark brown, the ninth segment 

 paler; hypopygium with the pleurites a" ark reddish brown, the ap- 

 pendages blackened. Male hypopygium (Plate IV, fig. 10) large 

 and highly complicated in structure; pleurites cylindrical with two 

 pleural appendages; the outer of these is a small, brown, clavata 

 lobe that is provided with a few long bristles; the inner or apical 

 pleural appendage is large, roughly triangular, the cephalic angle 

 produced into a conspicuous claw-like hook; along the caudal mar- 

 gin there is a comb of about 30 slender teeth; proximal face of this 

 lobe produced into a short, blunt, blackened lobe. On the proximal 

 face of the pleurite near the base is a short cylindrical lobe capped 

 by a brush of very long yellowish bristles, the inner (cephalic) ones 

 shortest, the outer ones very long and conspicuous; basad of the 

 pleurite is a larger but somewhat similar lobe, the apical tuft of 

 hairs very dense but short, not exceeding the lobe in length. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, d", Teffe, December 20, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotopotype, 9 • 



Paratopotypes, 2 cf's. 



Dicranomyia napoensis sp. n. Plate IV, fig. 11. 



Male. — Length about 5 mm. ; wing 5 mm. 



Generally similar to D. egae sp. n., differing as follows: Size 

 smaller. Praescutal stripes confluent as in egae. Wings a little 

 broader, more grayish than brown, with the stigma more clearly 

 defined, oval, brown; Sc shorter, cell 1st M 2 longer and narrower. 

 Male hypopygium (Plate IV, fig. 11) with the setigerous lobes on 

 the proximal face of the pleurites different in form; the basal lobe 

 is elongate-cylindrical, darkened, bearing a rather short tuft of 

 bristles at the apex; immediately caudad of this is a smaller lobe, 

 paler, with the bristles of proportionately equal length. Near mid- 

 length of the proximal face of the pleurite is a small cylindrical 

 lobe bearing two very powerful flattened bristles or fascicles of 

 bristles ; at the base of this lobe is a larger one with a powerful bristle 

 at its tip, the apex with abundant smaller bristles. The pleural 

 appendage has the comb-like teeth very irregular in size and dis- 

 tribution, not evenly spaced as in egae. Gonapophyses flattened, 

 the apices appearing as slender, erect, slightly curved pale blades. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, o", Napo River, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Dicranomyia rapax sp. n. Plate IV, fig. 12. 



Head dark grayish pruinose; mesonotum reddish yellow, un- 

 marked with darker; wings with Sc long; male hypopygium with 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



the pleural appendage powerful, shaped somewhat like the head 

 and neck of a bird of prey. 



Male. — Length about 5 mm. , wing 6 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennal scape dark brownish 

 black, flagellum broken. Head dark, gray pruinose. Mesonotum 

 light reddish yellow, the praescutum and scutum unmarked with 

 darker as in the three other species of this group described at this 

 time. Pleura yellowish testaceous, the dorsal sclerites a little darker. 

 Halteres brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters pale testa- 

 ceous , remainder of the legs brown, the femora paler basally . Wings 

 with a brownish tinge; stigma oval, darker brown; veins dark brown. 

 Venation: Sc long, Sci ending far beyond midlength of Rs, Sd 

 near the tip of Sci; basal deflection of Cu x some distance before 

 the fork of M, this distance slightly variable. Abdomen dark 

 brown, the sternites paler. Male hypopygium (Plate IV, fig. 12) 

 very distinct from the other species of the group; pleurites very 

 short and stout, on the proximal face near the base with a very 

 stout lobe that is slightly enlarged and bifid at its outer end and 

 here provided with several powerful bristles. Pleural appendage 

 very large and powerful, shaped somewhat like the head of a bird 

 of prey, the short curved apex being the beak, the neck region pro- 

 vided with dense acute spines. Gonapophyses appearing as flat- 

 tened blades, the lateral angles produced laterad into a conspicuous 

 cylindrical lobe, the apex blackened. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d", Yurimaguas, April 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, d", March 31, 1920. 



Dicranomyia acuminata sp. n. Plate IV, flg. 9. 



Antennae black, the flagellar segments provided with an apical 

 pedicel; head dark, yellowish gray pruinose; mesonotal praescutum 

 reddish yellow with three dark brown stripes that are not conflu- 

 ent; wings with Sc long; male hypopygium with the pleural append- 

 age produced proximad into a long, tapering point. 



Male. — Length 5 mm.; wing 6.1 mm. 

 Female. — Length 6.2 mm. ; wing 6 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae rather long for a 

 member of this genus, black; each flagellar segment with a moder- 

 ately long apical pedicel; flagellar segments covered with a con- 

 spicuous white pubescence, the pedicels glabrous. In the female, 

 the antennae are shorter, the flagellar segments without the apical 

 pedicels. Head dark, yellowish gray pruinose. Pronotum reddish 

 yellow, dark brown medially. Mesonotal praescutum reddish yellow 

 with three conspicuous dark brown stripes, the median one becoming 

 obliterated far before the suture; scutum obscure reddish, the lobes 

 dark brown; remainder of the mesonotum dark brown. Pleura 

 obscure reddish brown, sometimes a little darker. Halteres dark 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters yellowish testaceous; 

 remainder of the legs brownish black, the femoral bases paler. 

 Wings with a distinct brownish tinge; stigma small, subcircular, 

 slightly darker brown; veins dark brown. Venation: Sc long, Sci 

 extending to some distance beyond midlength of Rs, Sd close to the 

 tip of Sci; Rs rather long, gently arcuated; r at the tip of R t ; basal 

 deflection of Ri+ 5 about equal to or longer than the basal deflection 

 of Cui; cell 1st M 2 closed, shorter than the veins beyond it; basal 

 deflection of Cu x just beyond the fork of M. In the allotype, cell 

 1st M2 is a little longer; basal deflection of Cui just before the fork 

 of M. Abdominal tergites dark brown; sternites pale obscure 

 yellow; hypopygium yellowish. Male hypopygium (Plate IV, fig. 9) 

 with the pleurites rather stout, provided with rather sparse long 

 bristles; near the inner distal angle with about four snorter but 

 powerful bristles in alignment; pleural appendage with the proximal 

 end drawn out into a long acuminate point that is strongly curved 

 near the outer end; this point is provided with a few delicate setae; 

 closely applied to this pleural appendage but possibly representing 

 a second appendage is a small blackened beak with four or five 

 points, the whole suggesting a cock's-comb. Gonapophyses appear- 

 ing as flattened blades, the tips slightly blackened and curved 

 laterad. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, cf , Yurimaguas, April 10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Allotype, 9 , Iquitos, May 12, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Paratopotype, cT, April 16, 1920; paratype, cf , Iquitos, May 19, 

 1920. 



Dicranomyia fumosa (Alexander) 



1912. ? Furcomyia fumosa Alexander, Can. Ent., vol. 44, p. 364. 



Napo River, Peru, June 12, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus RHTPIDIA Meigen. 

 1818. Rhipidia Meigen, Syst. Beschr., vol. 1, p. 153. 

 Four species of this genus have been taken within the Amazonian 

 Region but there are doubtless many others yet to be discovered. 



Rhipidia (Rhipidia) perarmata sp. n. 



Antennae of the male long, bipectinate, bicolorous; head dark; 

 mesonotal praescutum reddish brown with a darker median stripe; 

 pleura dark brown ; femora brown with a narrow darker subterminal 

 ring; wings brownish gray, sparsely variegated with darker brown 

 and subhyaline; Sc long; abdomen annulated reddish brown and 

 dark brown; male hypopygium complicated in structure. 



Male. — Length about 5.6 mm. ; wing 6.5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae of the male elongate, 

 bipectinate; flagellum badly injured by insect pests; pectinations 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



very long and slender, much longer than the segments that bear 

 them; between the bases of the pectinations a small hairy tubercle; 

 the first flagellar segment apparently bears pectinations but this is 

 uncertain, as this part of the organ is badly injured by pests; scapal 

 segments dark brown, flagellar segments with the basal swelling 

 and pectinations dark brown, the elongate terminal pedicel of each 

 segment conspicuously ivory-white to produce a bicolorous appear- 

 ance. * Head dark grayish brown, the eyes practically contiguous 

 on the vertex. Mesonotal praescutum dull reddish brown with a 

 broad darker brown median stripe and very indistinct and abbrevi- 

 ated lateral stripes; remainder of the mesonotum dark brownish 

 testaceous. Pleura dark brown, sparsely pruinose; sternites beneath 

 obscure yellow. Halteres light yellow, the knobs broken. Legs 

 with the coxae dark brown on the basal half of the outer face, the 

 apical half suddenly pale yellow; trochanters yellow; femora brown, 

 paler basally, the tips broadly and indistinctly paler and including 

 a narrow brown subterminal ring; tibiae and tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings with a strong brownish gray tinge, sparsely variegated with 

 dark brown and subhyaline ; cell Sc yellowish ; the dark brown areas 

 appear as clouds at the origin of Rs, tip of Sc, along the cord, outer 

 end of cell 1st M 2 and at the stigma; wing-apex darkened; the sub- 

 hyaline areas occupy the radial cells before the origin of Rs, most 

 of cell 1st R h cell 2nd Ri beyond the stigma; in cell R 3 one before and 

 one beyond the level of r; veins dark brown. Venation: Sc long, 

 Sd extending to about opposite two-thirds the long Rs, Sd near 

 the extreme tip of Sc u ' Rs long, strongly arcuated at origin; r at 

 the tip of Ri; r-m about one-half the basal deflection of M } + t ; cell 

 1st Mi long and narrow, rectangular, about equal to vein M 3 beyond 

 it; basal deflection of Cui just beyond the fork of M. Abdomen 

 reddish brown, the apical two-fifths of each segment dark brown. 

 Male hypopygium very large and complicated in structure ; pleurites 

 small, about as large as the ventral pleural appendages, the proximal 

 face produced inward into a cylindrical dark brown arm that is 

 fringed with bristles along the cephalic face; the caudal face bears 

 near midlength a tubercle tipped with two long bristles. Ventral 

 pleural appendage fleshy, the proximal face produced inward as a 

 yellow, slightly curved arm that bears two slender spines beyond 

 midlength on the caudal face, these spines with the tips squarely 

 truncated. Dorsal pleural appendage a long, cylindrical, slightly 

 curved arm with the tip suddenly narrowed and acute. Gona- 

 pophyses flattened pale blades, the proximal angles produced caudad 

 into narrow knife-like blades that are blackened at their tips. What 

 appears to be the anal tube is very large, blackened, narrow basally, 

 expanded into a conical structure apically, the margin crenulated. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Yurimaguas, April 1, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Rhipidia perarmata is related to R. calverti Alexander (Costa 

 Rica) and R. bipectinata Williston (Lesser Antilles) but differs strik- 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



ingly in the coloration and very peculiar structure of the male hy- 

 popygium. 



Rhipidia (Conorhipidia) punctipennis Alexander. 



1914. Rhipidia (Conorhipidia) punctipennis Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. 

 Soc, vol. 22, pp. 117, 118. 



A large female which may represent a new race of this species 

 was taken at Iquitos, Peru, May 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). The 

 typical form has not been found outside of Costa Rica. 



Rhipidia Arhipidia annulicornis Enderlein. 



1912. Rhipidia annulicornis Enderlein, Zool. Jahrb. Syst., vol. 32, pp. 

 80, 81. 



Sex? Napo River, Peru, June 8, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Rhipidia (Arhipidia) domestica amazonensis Alexander. 



1912. Rhipidia domestica amazonensis Alexander, Bull. Brooklyn Ent. Soc. 

 vol. 8, p. 17. 



Teffe, Brazil, December 25, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 9-15, 1920 (H: S. Parish). 



Rhipidia (Arhipidia) domestica angustifrons Alexander. 



1912. Rhipidia domestica angustifrons Alexander, Bull. Brooklyn Ent. Soc, 

 vol. 8, pp. 16, 17. 



Napo River, Peru, June 9-12, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 The pectinations on the male antennae are distinctly longer than 

 in typical domestica. 



Genus F.HAMPHIDIA Meigen. 

 1830. Rhamphidia Meigen, Syst. Beschr., vol. 6, p. 281. 

 Rhamphidia miranda sp. n. 



General coloration reddish yellow; wings grayish subhyaline with 

 a conspicuous brown band along the cord; cell R i long and narrow; 

 cell 1st Mi rectangular, the basal deflection of Cu t beyond the fork 

 of M; male hypopygium with the shortest pleural appendage pro- 

 duced into a simple curved hook. 



Male. — Length about 5.5 mm.; wing 5.2-5.6 mm. 



Female. — Length 6.7 mm.; wing 5.4 mm. 



Rostrum about as long as the remainder of the head, pale brown- 

 ish yellow; palpi short, dark brown. Antennae short, light brown; 

 flagellar segments elongate-cylindrical with very long verticils. 

 Head light gray. Mesonotum reddish yellow without markings. 

 Pleura slightly darker. Halteres pale, the knobs brown. Legs 

 with the coxae and trochanters reddish yellow; remainder of the 

 legs pale testaceous, the terminal tarsal segments slightly darker. 

 Wings grayish subhyaline, cells C and Sc more yellowish; stigma 

 oval, brown, occupying the middle portion of cell Ri and the distal 

 end of cell Sc t ; from the stigma a broad but ill-defined band con- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



tinues across the wing following the cord to the fork of Cu; wing- 

 base and wing-tip very slightly darker than the ground-color; veins 

 pale brown, more yellowish in the costal region, darker in the infus- 

 cated areas. Venation: Sci ending a short distance beyond the 

 fork of Rs, Set at the tip of Sci; Rs straight, in alignment with the 

 basal deflection of Ri+ b ; cell Ri very long, the sides parallel; r-m 

 distinct, about one-half of m; celil 1st M 2 rectangular, a little longer 

 than vein Cu x beyond it; basal deflection of Cu x about one-half to 

 its full length beyond the fork of M. Abdomen reddish brown, 

 with a black subterminal ring on segments seven and eight. Male 

 hypopygium with the shortest pleural appendage with the tip black- 

 ened, produced into a simple curved hook; in R. mirabilis the ex- 

 treme tip is bifid. 



Habitat. — Brazil, Peru. 



Holotype, 6% Teffe, Brazil, February 3, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotype, 9 , Yurimaguas, Peru, April 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish) ; 

 condition fragmentary. 



Paratopotypes, 2 d"'s, mounted in balsam; paratypes, 2 9 's, 

 with the allotype, April 5 and 6, 1920; badly injured by insect pests; 

 d\ with the allotype, April 23, 1920. 



Rhamphidia miranda bears a strong superficial resemblance to 

 R. mirabilis' Alexander but differs in the coloration and venation 

 of the wings and in the details of structure of the male hypopyg- 

 ium. 



Rhamphidia mirabilis Alexander. 



1914. Rhamphidia mirabilis Alexander, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, 

 pp. 230, 231. 



Prat a, Brazil, July 5, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Igarape Assu, Brazil, July 15, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 6, 15, 17, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 16, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Rhamphidia sanguinolenta sp. n. 



General coloration light reddish yellow; head gray; mesonotal 

 postnotum and a dorsal longitudinal pleural stripe dark brown; 

 legs yellow, the femora narrowly tipped with dark brown; wings 

 pale yellow; stigma oval, dark brown; two pale brown crossbands; 

 wing-tip indistinctly darkened; basal section of ilf ,+ 2 long, oblique, 

 the inner end of cell 1st Mi being strongly arcuated; abdominal 

 tergites annulated dark brown and obscure yellow. 



Male. — Length 4.8 mm.; wing 4.5 mm. 

 Female. — Length 5 mm.; wing 4.6 mm. 



Rostrum about as long as the head, light yellow; palpi pale brown. 

 Antennae short; scapal segments yellow; flagellum pale brown. 

 Head gray. Mesonotal praescutum light reddish yellow, the post- 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



notum dark brown. Pleura pale testaceous yellow, the dorsal 

 pleurites with a brown longitudinal stripe, extended caudad to the 

 postnotal region. Halteres light yellow. Legs with the coxae and 

 trochanters pale yellow, the margins of the latter narrowly dark 

 brown; femora yellow, the tips narrowly but distinctly dark brown; 

 tibiae and tarsi pale yellow. Wings with a pale yellowish tinge; 

 stigma oval, dark brown, conspicuous; much paler brown crossbands 

 arranged as follows : Just beyond the base of the wing, beginning 

 in cell M, continued to the anal margin at the end of vein 2nd A; 

 an ill-defined band along the cord; outer end of cell 1st Mi seamed 

 with darker; wing-apex in cells R 3 , Rs and 2nd M 2 indistinctly dark- 

 ened; veins yellow, more brownish in the infuscated areas. Vena- 

 tion: Sci ending at about opposite four-fifths Rs, Sc 2 a short distance 

 from its tip; Rs short, gently sinuous to almost straight; R t + Z rela- 

 tively short, about equal to or approximately a fifth longer than 

 Rs, gently bisinuous; r-m a little longer than the deflection of Rt+&; 

 cell 1st M? large, the proximal margin arcuated, oblique; basal 

 section of M 1+2 longer than the second section, r-m being near mid- 

 length of the cell 1st M*_; m a little shorter than the outer deflection 

 of M 3 ; basal deflection of Cui at or close to the fork of M. Basal 

 abdominal tergites annulated dark brown and obscure brownish 

 yellow, the basal two-fifths of each segment being dark brown, 

 the apical three-fifths brownish yellow; sternites yellow. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d" , Iquitos, March 2, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotopotype, 9 , March 5, 1920. 



Paratopotypes, 2 d" 's, March 4, 1920. 



Rhamphidia uniformis Alexander. 



1914. Rhamphidia uniformis Alexander, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, 

 p. 230. 



Prata, Brazil, June 30, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, January 28, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 4-15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Rhamphidia albitarsis Osten Sacken. 



1887. Rhamphidia albitarsis Osten Sacken, Berl. Ent. Zeitsch., vol. 31, 

 p. 184. 



Yurimaguas, Peru, March 31-April 22, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



A variety of R. albitarsis with the white of the fore and middle 

 tarsi very narrowly restricted was taken at Iquitos, Peru, May 6, 

 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus ORTMARGA Osten Sacken. 

 1859. Orimarga Osten Sacken, Mon. Dipt. N. Amer., part 4, p. 120. 



Orimarga paUidibasis sp. n. 



General coloration brown, grayish pruinose; pleura with a dark 

 brown longitudinal stripe; legs with the tibiae and tarsi white, the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



femora and tibiae broadly tipped with black; wings faintly grayish, 

 the cosW region slightly infuscated; wing-base conspicuously pale; 

 distal section of Ri longer than Rs. 



Male. — Length about 5.5 mm.; wing 5.7 mm. 

 Female. — Length about 7 mm. ; wing 6.4 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennal scape dark brown, 

 the flagellum broken. Head gray, clearer and lighter gray adjoin- 

 ing the inner margins of the eyes. Mesonotum gray pruinose, 

 the median area broadly brownish, the extreme lateral margins 

 narrowly whitish; remainder of the mesonotum brown, sparsely 

 dusted with grey. Pleura brown, darker dorsally; sternum dark 

 brown, paler medially beneath. Halteres pale: Legs with the 

 coxae brownish testaceous; trochanters similar, the margin with a 

 black spot ; anterior femora whitish, the tips broadly and conspicu- 

 ously blackened and with an indistinct whitish subterminal ring; 

 posterior femora brown, gradually darkening to the black tips; 

 tibiae white, the tips broadly and abruptly black ; tarsi white. Wings 

 with a faint greyish tinge, more brownish in the costal region; wing- 

 base before the ar cuius conspicuously whitish; veins pale brown. 

 Venation: Sc moderately long, Sci ending opposite about three- 

 fourths the length of Rs, Sd rather indistinct, at the tip of Sci; 

 Rs long, strongly arcuated at origin; r about mid-distance between 

 Se 2 and the tip of R ly the distal section of #1 being a little longer 

 than Rs; r-m shorter than the basal deflection of Mi+ 2 ; petiole 

 of cell Mz longer than vein M 3 ; basal deflection of Cui about its 

 own length before the fork of M. Abdominal tergites dark brown, 

 the sternites a little paler. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d", Yurimaguas, April 8, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotopotype, 9 , April 1, 1920. 



Paratopotype, Sex ?, April 5, 1920. 



Orimarga pallidibasis is readily told from the other known spe- 

 cies of the genus by the position of the radial crossvein, vein Ri 

 beyond it being a little longer than the sector ; in most species of the 

 genus, r lies close to the tip of Ri. 



Genus DIOTREPHA Osten Sacken. 

 1878. Diotrepha Osten Sacken, Cat. N. Amer. Dipt., p. 219. 

 1888. Thambeta Williston, Synopsis N. Am. Dipt., p. 32. x 



Diotrepha atribasis Alexander. 



1914. Diotrepha atribasis Alexander Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, p. 240. 



Flores, Brazil, November 18, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, December 22-24, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Iquitos, Peru, June 7, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Diotrepha fumicosta sp. n. 



General coloration dark brown, legs pale yellow, wings brown, 

 the costal margin broadly seamed with darker brown, basal deflec- 

 tion of Cui about one-half the length of the sector before the origin 

 of the latter. 



Female. — Length 6.5 mm. , wing 5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae pale brown. Head 

 brown. Mesonotum and pleura dark brown. Mesosternum slightly 

 paler than the pleura. Halteres dark brown, the base of the stem 

 paler. Legs with the coxae dark brown, trochanters obscure yellow; 

 remainder of the legs pale yellow, only the terminal tarsal segments 

 a little darkened. Wings with a strong brownish tinge, the costal 

 region, continued to the wing-apex, broadly darker brown, this color 

 paler on the basal third of the wing; a brownish cloud in the base 

 of cell 1st A; veins brown. Venation: Sc moderately long, Sc t 

 ending opposite midlength of Rs, Sc* near the tip of Sci; Rs long, 

 gently arcuated; r on.R 2 + 3 and on 12 1, the distal section of Ri being 

 a little longer than the strongly arcuated basal deflection of JK 4 +&; 

 basal deflection of Cu x before the level of the origin of Rs, the dis- 

 tance about one-half of Rs. In the paratype, Rs is considerably 

 longer than R 2 +s. Abdomen dark brown, the stout valves of the 

 ovipositor horn-colored. Tergal valves of the ovipositor much 

 smaller and shorter than the powerful, blade -like sternal valves. 



Habitat. — Brazil, Venezuela. 



Holotype, 9, Pratd, Para, Brazil, June 30, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotypes, 2 9 % one in the collection of the British Museum 

 of Natural History. 



Paratype, 9 , Boqueron, Yaracuy, Venezuela, March 17, 1920 

 (J. H. and E. B. Williamson and W. H. Ditzler). 



The only described species with which the present form agrees 

 at all is D. concinna Williston. Mr. F. W. Edwards, of the British 

 Museum, has compared a paratype of the present species with 

 Williston's types of D. concinna and reports the differences as follows: 



"D. concinna: Thorax light brown. Wings clear (legs missing). 

 Palpi longer. Wings narrower, especially cell Sc. Crossvein sc 

 (Set) beyond the tip of Sc, in one specimen another crossvein in 

 cell Sc beyond the first. Rs half as long again as Ri+ 3 , hence all 

 apical cells very short. Cui a (basal deflection of Cui) nearer base 

 of wing, at a distance about equal to R 2 + 3 before base of Rs. 



" D. fumicosta: Thorax darker brown. Wings with broad brown 

 margin on apical part of costa. Palpi shorter. Wings rather 

 broader. Crossvein sc just before tip of Sc. Rs a little shorter 

 than .R2+3, apical cells longer than in above. Distance of Cui a 

 from base of Rs equal to less than half of 122+3." — F. W. Edwards. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Although the remaining specimens of the type-series of D. fumi- 

 costa do not agree in all particulars with the specimen described by- 

 Mr. Edwards, yet they are in so close agreement that practically 

 all of the distinctions indicated hold throughout the series. 



Genus ATARBA Osten Sacken. 

 1869. Atarba Osten Sacken, Mon. Dipt. N. Amer., part 4, pp. 127, 128. 



Atarba is a.rather small genus of crane-flies that reaches its great- 

 est specific development in the tropics of the New World. The 

 genus has been referred to the old tribe Antochini but the presence 

 of tibial spurs in the typical forms would indicate that the present 

 reference is more nearly correct despite the reduced venation. 



Atarba megaphallus sp. n. 



Antennae of the male elongate; flagellum dark brown, both ends of 

 each segment narrowly pale; wings grayish yellow; Rs short, cell 

 1st Mi small; male hypopygium with the penis-guard greatly en- 

 larged, the apex widened into a hood-shaped structure. 



Male. — Length 5-5.5 mm.; wing 5-5.8 mm. 

 Female. — Length 6.5 mm. ; wing 6.2 mm. 



Rostrum brownish yellow. Antennae of the male elongated, 

 longer than 2 one-half the body; scapal segments brownish yellow; 

 first flagellar segment pale brown, passing into dark brown before 

 the tip, the extreme apex pale; remaining flagellar segments dark 

 brown, the extreme base and apex of each segment pale to produce 

 a narrowly annulated appearance; flagellar segments elongate- 

 cylindrical, clothed with an abundant erect white pubescence and 

 provided with a few verticils arranged unilaterally. Head pale 

 brownish yellow. Mesonotum pale brownish yellow, the prae- 

 scutum without markings. Pleura brown, fading into yellow on the 

 sternum. Halteres pale brown, the knobs dark brown. Legs with 

 the coxae and trochanters obscure yellow; femora obscure yellow- 

 ish, the extreme tips indistinctly darker; remainder of the legs 

 brownish yellow, only the terminal tarsal segments darker brown. 

 Wings with a strong grayish yellow tinge, the stigmal region indis- 

 tinctly darker; veins pale brownish yellow. Venation: Sc short, 

 Sci ending just beyond the origin of Rs; *Sc 2 some distance from 

 the tip of Sci, the latter alone being nearly equal to the short sector; 

 Rs short, but little longer than the deflection of Rt + f,; Rz+ 3 almost 

 straight, running rather close to R x ; cell Ri much narrower than 

 R 3 at the wing-margin; cell 1st M 2 very small, pentagonal; basal 

 deflection of Ctii beyond the fork of M. Abdominal tergites obscure 

 yellowish brown; sternites clearer yellow; in the male a conspicuous 

 subterminal blackish ring on segments five and six, hypopygium 

 obscure yellow. Male hypopygium with the pleurites and append- 

 ages about as in the other species of the genus; penis-guard greatly 

 enlarged, the apex widened and concave above, hood-like. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OT [Part I 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, d\ Teffe, December 22, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Allotopotype, 9 , December 25, 1919. 

 Paratopotypes, 2 o" 's, with the type. 



Genus ELEPHANTOMYIA Osten Sacken. 

 1859. Elephantomyia Osten Sacken, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 220. 



The genus Elephantomyia has long been referred. to the tribe 

 Antochini and later to the Eriopterini. The presence of distinct 

 tibial spurs would indicate that this genus, like Atarba, is an aberrant 

 hexatomine form. 



Elephantomyia supernumeraria sp. n. 



General coloration dark brown; thoracic pleura gray pruinose 

 with two narrow dark brown longitudinal stripes; legs black; wings 

 subhyaline with a heavy brown pattern; a supernumerary cross- 

 vein near the outer end of cell R 2 . 



Male. — Length (excluding rostrum) about 5.4 mm.; wing 5.8 mm.; 

 rostrum about 3.9 mm. 



Rostrum long and slender, dark brown. Antennae dark brown; 

 verticils elongate. Head gray. Mesonotum dark brown. Pleura 

 pale brown, sparsely pruinose, with two narrow dark brown longi- 

 tudinal stripes, the dorsal stripe beginning at the cervical sclerites, 

 extending beneath the wing-root; the ventral stripe begins on the 

 mesosternum before the middle coxa, passing beneath the halter to 

 the base of the abdomen. Halteres yellow, the knobs infuscated. 

 Legs with the fore and middle coxae infuscated; posterior coxae 

 less darkened; trochanters obscure yellow,the margin with a brown 

 spot; remainder of the legs black, the bases of the femora narrowly 

 pale; the joint between the femur and tibia is narrowly and indis- 

 tinctly pale. Wings subhyaline with a heavy and conspicuous 

 brown pattern, distributed as follows: At arculus; a large area at 

 the origin of Rs, extending caudad to vein M; a small spot at the tip 

 of Sci; a conspicuous seam at the stigma, continued along the cord 

 to the fork of M; rounded spots at the tips of veins Ri and R 2 , the 

 latter extending onto the supernumerary crossvein in cell R 2 ; wing- 

 tip infumed; brownish seams along the outer end of cell 1st M 2 and 

 the basal deflection of Cui; veins light brown, slightly darker in the 

 infuscated areas. Venation: Sc long, Sc t extending to about oppo- 

 site four-fifths the long Rs; Rs strongly arcuated at origin; R t 

 very short, a little less than m; a supernumerary crossvein in cell R 2 

 near its outer end, the tip of vein R 2 beyond it pale and without 

 macrotrichiae ; cell 1st M 2 large, rectangular, about as long as as a 

 little shorter than vein Mi+ 2 beyond it; basal deflection of Cui at 

 or beyond midlength of cell 1st M 2 , a little longer than Cu 2 . Abdo- 

 men dark brown, the base of the hypopygium a little brighter. 

 Male hypopygium with the two pleural appendages subequal in 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



length, the outer appendage more slender, at the tip split into two 

 short, subequal points. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, cf , Napo River, June 8, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, <?. 



Elephantomyia supernumeraria is distinguished from all the de- 

 scribed American species of the genus by the heavily patterned wings 

 and from all known species of the genus by the presence of a super- 

 numerary cross vein in cell R 2 of the wings. 



CTENOLTMNOPHILA gen. n. 



Antennae with sixteen segments, the flagellar segments short- 

 cylindrical. Tibiae provided with spurs. Wings with Sc t at the 

 tip of Sc u - a supernumerary crossvein in cell R 2 ; cell 1st M* very 

 long and narrow, irregular in outline, approximately twice as long 

 as the cells beyond it; cell Mi lacking. Male hypopygium with 

 the outer pleural appendage provided with very long, appressed 

 teeth on the outer face before the tip. 



Genotype. — Ctenolimnophila bivena, sp. n. (Amazonian Region). 



The general appearance of the two species now known to belong 

 to this genus is much more like a Gnophomyia than a Limnophiline 

 form. Gnophomyia decisa Alexander, described from imperfect ma- 

 terial, is now known to be a member of this genus. The tibial spurs 

 in C. decisa are much shorter and stouter than in C. bivena. The 

 type of hypopygium is strongly suggestive of Ephelia and Atarba. 

 Ctenolimnophila bivena sp. n.- 



Male. — Length 4.5 mm.; wing 4.8-5.3 mm. 



Generally similar to C. decisa but differing in several important 

 details. The general coloration is dark brown, the legs conspicu- 

 ously light yellow. The hairs of the legs are longer and more out- 

 spreading than in decisa. The principal differences between the 

 two forms are found in the wings, as follows: 



Wings with a supernumerary crossvein in cell R 3 in addition to 

 the one in cell R 2 , the former lying a short distance proximad of 

 the latter. Wings more uniformly darkened, the radial cells uni- 

 formly dark brown, the cubital and anal cells grayish brown; narrow 

 seams and spots at the origin of Rs, along the cord, outer end of 

 cell 1st M% and the supernumerary crossveins darker brown; no in- 

 dications of the three pale spots along the costal margin as in decisa; 

 the only pale areas on the wing are the centers of cells 1st Mt, 2nd 

 Mi, M 3 and a faint wash before the cord in the end of cell R. 



Habitat. — Peru, Brazil. 



Holotype, cf , Napo River, Peru, June 22, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Paratopotype, cf ; paratype, sex?, Teffe, Brazil, December 24, 

 1919 (H. S. Parish). 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Ctenolimnophila decisa (Alexander) 



1914. Gnophomyia decisa Alexander, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, pp. 

 245, 246. 



Prata, Brazil, June 30, 1919 (H. S. Parish). This specimen 

 differs in a few minor points from typical decisa but with the scanty 

 material available it is impossible to separate the species. 



Genus LIMNOPHTLA Macquart. 

 1834. Limnophila Macquart, Suites a Buffon, Tome 1, Hist. Nat. Ins., 

 Dipt., p. 95. 



Limnophila (Limnophilella) epiphragmoides Alexander. 



1913. Limnophila epiphragmoides Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, 

 pp. 543, 544. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 30, 1912 (H. S. Parish); Type. 



Limnophila diversipes sp. n. 



General coloration brownish yellow; legs brown, the tips of the 

 tibiae, bases and tips of the metatarsi and the remaining tarsal 

 segments white; wings petiolate, the anal angle practically lacking; 

 membrane hyaline, the tip slightly infuscated; petiole of cell M t 

 very short; 2nd Anal cell long and narrow. 



Sex? — Wing 9 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi brown. Antennae broken. Head reddish 

 brown, more yellowish caudally and on the genae. Mesonotum 

 small, pale brownish yellow, unmarked. Pleura yellowish. Hal- 

 teres broken. Legs with the coxae testaceous yellow; trochanters 

 with a decided greenish tinge; femora brown; tibiae dark brown, 

 the tips broadly (2.4 mm.) and abruptly snowy white; metatarsi 

 brownish black, the extreme bases and the apical third to fifth 

 snowy white, this color most extensive on the posterior legs; re- 

 mainder of the tarsi white, the terminal segments tinged with green- 

 ish. Wings elongate, petiolate; anal angle practically lacking; mem- 

 brane hyaline, the apex beyond cell 1st Mi distinctly but faintly 

 infuscated; stigma very small, oval, brown; veins dark brown. All 

 the longitudinal veins beyond the cord with long, conspicuous macro- 

 trichiae; Rs, M, Cu and the Anal veins likewise with macrotrichiae, 

 smaller and more scattered toward the base of the wing. Venation : 

 Sc long, iSci extending to slightly beyond midlength of Ri+ 3 , Sc t 

 at the tip of Sci; Rs long, strongly angulated at origin; #2+3 almost 

 in alignment with Rs, a little shorter than the distal section of R*; 

 r on i?j at about three-fifths its length and on R x a little more than 

 its length from the tip; basal deflection of # 4 + 5 short, strongly ar- 

 cuated, a little longer than the basal deflection of Cui; cell 1st Mi 

 long and narrow, rectangular; petiole of cell M x very short, less 

 than m, cell Mi consequently very deep; basal deflection of Cu x 

 about one-third its length beyond the fork of M; Cui approximately 

 four times the basal deflection of Cu x ; 2nd Anal vein long, running 

 close to and parallel with the anal margin of the wing so that cell 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 64 



2nd A is very long and narrow, widened distally; the two Anal 

 veins run parallel for the greater part of the length of the 2nd. Ab- 

 domen broken. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, Sex?, Yurimaguas, April 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus EPIPHRAGMA Osten Sacken. 

 1859. Epiphragma Osten Sacken, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 233. 



Epiphragma fabric ii Alexander. 



1913. Epiphragma fabricii Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, 

 p. 536. 



Iquitos, Peru, March 9 to May 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Epiphragma varia (Wiedemann) 



1828. Limnobia varia Wiedemann, Aussereur. zweifl. Ins., Thl. 1, p. 573. 



Teffe, Brazil, January 28, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, March 31, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 16, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus PSARONIUS Enderlein. 

 1912. Psaronius Enderlein, Zool. Jahrb., Abt. Syst., Bd. 32, H. 1, p. 50 



Psaronius obscurus (Fabricius) 



1805. Tipula obscura Fabricius, Syst. Antl., p. 27. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 29, 1912, to February 4, 1912 

 (H. S. Parish). 



Psaronius pallipes Alexander. 



1920. Psaronius pallipes Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 31, p. 73. 



Known only from the types, taken at Pratd, Brazil, June 30 and 

 July 5, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Psaronius pygmaeus Alexander. 



1914. Psaronius pygmaeus Alexander, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, pp. 

 249, 250. 



Obidos, Brazil, September 6, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 1, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Psaronius trianguliferus sp. n. 



General coloration yellowish brown, the mesonotal praescutum 

 with three darker stripes, the lateral ones incurved to the median 

 stripe at their anterior ends, femora with a narrow, dark brown 

 subterminal ring, wings brownish yellow, the veins broadly seamed 

 with grayish; cell 2nd Ri elongate-triangular, veins Ri and R* being 

 subcontiguous at their distal ends. 



Female. — Length about 16 mm.; wing 11.5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae with the scapal seg- 

 ments obscure yellow, the basal segments of the flagellum brownish 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Fart I 



yellow, passing into dark brown before the tip of the organ. Head 

 obscure yellow with a delicate brown median line. Mesonotal prae- 

 scutum yellowish brown with three darker brown stripes; median 

 stripe pale anteriorly but becoming better denned toward the su- 

 ture; lateral margins and a capillary median vitta darker brown; 

 lateral stripes brown, their cephalic ends directed proximad, indis- 

 tinctly confluent with the median stripe, isolating two pale s^b- 

 median areas immediately before the suture; scutum brown, each 

 lobe with a brownish yellow circle, enclosing a dark center; scutellum 

 and postnotum brown. Pleura obscure yellow with a relatively 

 narrow dorsal brown stripe; mesosternum also brown, these two 

 dark areas enclosing between them an ill-defined longitudinal pale 

 stripe. Halteres with the stem yellow, the knobs dark brown. 

 Legs with the coxae and trochanters obscure yellow; femora yellow- 

 ish, before the tips with a narrow, subterminal brown ring; tibiae 

 yellow, the extreme bases narrowly infuscated, the tips narrowly 

 dark brownish black; tarsi obscure yellow, the terminal segments 

 slightly darker. Wings with a strong brownish yellow tinge, the 

 costal cell more brownish, the subcostal cell clear yellow; darker 

 brown clouds at the base of cell R; at origin of Rs; fork of Rs and 

 at the stigma; all the veins are very broadly seamed with greyish, 

 these seams restricting the ground-color to narrow longitudinal 

 streaks; basal third of cell R 2 yellow, the distal two- thirds greyish; 

 veins brown. Venation: Sci ending immediately beyond r; Rs 

 long, strongly angulated at origin, a little longer than Ri+ t ; R t 

 subcontiguous with R x at costa so that cell 2nd R i has an elongate- 

 triangular shape; petiole of cell Mi a little shorter than the basal 

 deflection of R t +s', m about one-half the outer deflection of M 3 ; 

 Cu 2 shorter than the basal deflection of Cui. Abdominal tergites 

 brown, each segment slightly paler basally; sternites yellow. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, 9 , Yurimaguas, April 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



By means of the author's key to the species of the genus Psaronius 

 (Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, p. 250. 1914), P. trianguliferus 

 runs out to couplet 3, both of the included species having the meso- 

 notum practically unicolorous. From the more recently described 

 P. pallipes Alexander (Brazil), the present species differs in the 

 venation and the coloration of the tarsi. 



Psaronius mancus sp. n. 



Mesonotal praescutum brownish yellow with three darker brown 

 stripes, the median stripe with a capillary darker brown line that 

 continues back to the base of the abdomen; femora with a narrow 

 subterminal brownish black ring; tibiae light brown, the base and 

 tip blackened; wings brownish yellow, the veins conspicuously 

 seamed with brown; vein R 2 entirely lacking; cell Mi shorter than 

 its petiole. 



Female. — Length 21-22 mm.; wing 14.2-15 mm. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae short, the scape and 

 first flagellar segment brownish yellow; remainder of the flagellum 

 dark brown. Head brownish yellow, the dorso-median area of the 

 vertex darker brown. Mesonotal praescutum brownish yellow with 

 three darker brown stripes; median stripe with the lateral margins 

 and a capillary median line still darker brown; pseudosutural foveae 

 conspicuous; scutum dark brown, the median area with a capillary 

 dark line; scutellum pale brownish testaceous with a narrow brown 

 median line; postnotum pale brown, the median line darker. Pleura 

 light brown, variegated with darker brown. Sternum light yellow- 

 ish brown. Halteres dark brown, the base of the stem paler. Legs 

 with the coxae light brown, dark brown basally; trochanters brown- 

 ish yellow; femora brownish yellow, a narrow (0.6 mm.) brownish 

 black subterminal ring, preceded by a broad but ill-defined yellow- 

 ish ring, the apex narrowly pale; tibiae light brown, the tip and 

 the slightly narrower base black; metatarsi light brown, the tips 

 dark brown; remainder of the tarsi dark brown. Wings with a 

 strong brownish yellow tinge; cell C brown, cell Sc yellowish; very 

 broad brown clouds at the base of cell R, origin and fork of Rs and 

 as conspicuous seams along the longitudinal veins, in cells M, 1st A 

 and 2nd A suffusing most of the cells; veins dark brown, darkest 

 in the clouded areas. Venation: vein Rz entirely lacking as in 

 P. abnormis Alexander and P. brevitibia Alexander; Rz+ 3 consider- 

 ably longer than the deflection of Ri+ 6 ; r-m longer than the basal 

 deflection of Mi+ 2 ; cell Mi considerably shorter than its petiole; 

 fusion of Cui and M 3 slight; vein Ciiz longer than the basal deflec- 

 tion of M i+ 2 ; 2nd Anal vein rather long, ending a trifle before the 

 origin of Rs. Abdomen dark brown. Ovipositor with the valves 

 comparatively short, blackened basally; tergal valves gently up- 

 curved, their apices pale. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, 9 , Teffe, December 20, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, 9 , December 12, 1919. 



Psaronius mancus is readily told from all described species of the 

 genus by the diagnostic characters given above. Its only close 

 relative is P. brevitibia Alexander, likewise from the Amazonian 

 Region. 



Psaronius brevitibia Alexander. 



1920. Psaronius brevitibia Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 31, p. 74. 



Still known only from the type specimen, taken at Obidos, Brazil, 

 August 28, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus POLYMERA Wiedemann. 

 1821. Polymera Wiedemann, Dipt. Exot., p. 40. 



Polymera includes nearly a score of species that are confined to 

 tropical and subtropical America. The genus is abundantly rep- 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



resented in the Amazonian region, where it must be considered as 

 being one of the most characteristic Tipulid genera. 



Polymera conjuncta Alexander. 



1913. Polymera conjuncta Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, 

 p. 529. 



The types were taken at Igarape Assu, Brazil, February 4, 1912 



by H. S. Parish. 



Polymera conjunctoides Alexander. 



1920. Polymera conjunctoides Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 31, pp. 74, 75. 



Itacoatiara, Brazil, October 16, 1919 (H. S. Parish); Type. 

 Manaos, Brazil, October 31, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 9-15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Polymera parishi Alexander. 



1920. Polymera parishi Alexander, Can. Ent., vol. 52, pp. 143, 144. 



Manaos, Brazil, October 31-November 4, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 The above three species belong to the subgenus Polymerodes 

 Alexander, in which the tibial spurs are quite lacking. 



Polymera pleuralis Alexander. 



1913. Polymera pleuralis Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, pp. 

 528, 529. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 19-February 7, 1912 (H. S. Par- 

 ish) ; Types. 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 1, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Polymera obscura Macquart. 



1838. Polymera obscura Macquart, Dipt. Exot., Tome 1, pt. 1, p. 65. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 19-February 4, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Itacoatiara, Brazil, October 12-22, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, December 4-27, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Iquitos, Peru, May 18, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 17, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Polymera thoracica Alexander. 



1913. Polymera thoracica Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, pp. 

 533, 534. 



Known only from the type locality, Igarape Assu, Brazil, Feb- 

 ruary 7, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 



Polymera hirticornis (Fabricius) 



1805. Chironomus hirticornis Fabricius, Syst. Antliat., p. 46. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 23, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Obidos, Brazil, September 10, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



Polymera superba Alexander. 



1913. Polymera superba Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, pp. 

 530, 531. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 24, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, December 24-26, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Polymera niveitarsis Alexander. 



1913. Polymera niveitarsis Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, 

 pp. 532, 533. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 29, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 



Prata, Brazil, June 30, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Iquitos, Peru, May 11-15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Yurimaguas, Peru, April 7-10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Polymera crystalloptera sp. n. 



Close to P. niveitarsis Alexander; wings crystalline hyaline; r 

 close to the tip of R x ; r-m before the fork of Rs. 



Male. — Length 7.5-8.5 mm.; wing 6.5-7.5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi orange-yellow. Antennae of the male elon- 

 gate, approximately as long as the body; scapal segments tumid, 

 brownish orange; flagellar segments black, in structure quite as in 

 P. niveitarsis, elongate-cylindrical, not constricted, provided with 

 abundant erect black hairs. Head dark brown. Mesonotal prae- 

 scutum reddish yellow with a broad reddish brown median stripe 

 that is sometimes obliterated; scutum and scutellum reddish brown, 

 the postnotum slightly paler. Pleura obscure reddish yellow. Hal- 

 teres brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters obscure yellow; 

 femora dark brown, paler basally; tibiae and tarsi dark brown, 

 posterior metatarsi with the apical half snowy white; remaining 

 tarsal segments similar, only the terminal segment infuscated. 

 Wings crystalline hyaline, highly iridescent ; veins very conspicuous, 

 brownish black. Venation: Arculus interrupted; r far out near 

 the tip of Ri, the distal section of the latter vein from one to two 

 times r; r-m connecting Rs immediately before the fork; basal de- 

 flection of Cut before the fork of M, the distance about equal to r; 

 cell M i small, vein Mi being about equal to or shorter than the 

 basal deflection of Cu u - petiole of cell M z about two-thirds to three- 

 fourths the cell. Abdominal tergites dark brown; basal sternites 

 yellowish, becoming more obscure toward the tip of the organ; 

 hypopygium pale brown, the appendages black. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, cf 1 , Yurimaguas, April 2, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, cf , April 8, 1920. 



Genus PENTHOPTERA Schiner. 

 1863. Penthoptera Schiner, Wien. Ent. Monatsch., vol. 220. 

 Penthoptera batesi sp. n. 



Antennae of the male rather short; general coloration reddish 

 yellow, the pleura testaceous yellow; tarsi white, this color including 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



all but the basal fifth of the posterior metatarsus ; wings subhyaline, 

 the wing-tip a little darker; cell Mi lacking; basal deflection of 

 R 4 +i distinct. 



Male. — Length 9.2 mm.; wing 8.3 mm. 



Rostrum obscure brownish yellow; palpi dark brown. Antennae 

 of the male rather short, if bent backward extending about to the 

 wing-root; scapal segments obscure yellow, the flagellum dark brown. 

 Head brown, more grayish adjoining the margin of the eyes. Meso- 

 notum reddish yellow without apparent darker stripes. Pleura 

 testaceous yellow. Halteres brown. Legs with the coxae and tro- 

 chanters testaceous yellow; remainder of the legs dark brown, the 

 femoral bases paler; terminal tarsal segments snowy -white, on the 

 fore legs including the apical fifth of the metatarsus; on the middle 

 legs, the white includes a little less than the apical half; on the 

 posterior legs, the white includes the apical four-fifths, the basal 

 fifth being darkened. Wings subhyaline, cell Sc faintly darker; 

 stigma very indistinct to practically lacking; apex of the wing be- 

 yond the level of r and the outer end of cell 1st M 2 darkened. Vena- 

 tion: Sc long, Sci ending a little beyond the level of r-m; Rs long, 

 arcuated at origin; R 2 + 3 about two-fifths of Rs, in alignment with 

 R 2 ; r on R 2 about the length of r-m beyond the fork of Ri+ 3 , the 

 distal section of Ri being about twice r; basal deflection of i^+s 

 longer than r; cell 1st Mi elongate-rectangular, about as long as 

 vein Mi +2 beyond it; cell M x lacking; basal deflection of Cui a little 

 less than half its length beyond the fork of M ; basal deflection of 

 Cui about equal to CW Abdomen dark brown; sternites obscure 

 yellow. Male hypopygium with the pleural appendages very long 

 and slender. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, d\ Teffe, January 28, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Penthoptera batesi is dedicated to the memory of the great natur- 

 alist, Henry W. Bates, who spent more than four years at Teffe' 



Genus ERIOCERA Macquart. 

 1838. Eriocera Macquart, Dipt. Exot., Tome 1, p. 74. 



Eriocera macrocera Alexander. 



1914. Eriocera macrocera Alexander, Psyche, vol. 21, p. 40. 



This interesting crane-fly is still known only from the unique 

 type, taken at Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 30, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 



Eriocera amazonicola Alexander. 



1920. Eriocera amazonicola Alexander, Can. Ent., vol. 52, p. 144. 



Manaos, Brazil, November 4, 1919 (H. S. Parish) ; Type. 

 Flores, Brazil, November 12, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Genus ERIOPTERA Meigen. 

 1803. Erioptera Meigen, Illiger's Mag., Bd. 2, p. 262. 



Species of the genus Erioptera are relatively abundant in the 

 Amazonian Region. Many of these species belong to the subgenus 

 Mesocyphona which reaches its greatest specific development in the 

 Tropics of the New World. A few other forms belong to the typical 

 subgenus .Erioptera, although the species of the annulipes group 

 must be considered as being somewhat aberrant. 



Erioptera (Erioptera) micromyia Alexander. Plate IV, fig. 8. 



1920. Erioptera {Erioptera) micromyia Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., 

 vol. 28, p. 8. 



The type female was from Prata, Brazil, June 30, 1919 (H. S. 

 Parish). A male specimen was taken by Parish at Yurimaguas, 

 Peru, April 17, 1920, and is herewith described as the allotype. 



Allotype. — Male, length about 2.5 mm.; wing 2.5 mm. 



Similar to the type female. Male hypopygium (Plate IV, fig. 8) 

 with the pleurites comparatively large and stout ; two pleural append- 

 ages, the outer one deeply bifid, the outer branch a slender chitinized 

 spine, the inner branch shorter, stout, the apex a little enlarged 

 and covered with minute spinules; inner pleural appendage a flat- 

 tened arm whose apex is obtusely rounded and provided with a 

 few tiny setae. Gonapophyses very large and powerful, about as 

 long as the pleurites themselves, each apophyse appearing as a 

 blackened blade directed caudad, the acute tips curved proximad 

 and subcontiguous with one another at the midline of the body; 

 before the tip on the proximal face, each apophyse is dilated into 

 a thin, flaring blade whose margin is weakly serrate. 



Erioptera (Erioptera) cladophora Alexander. 



1920. Erioptera {Mesocyphona) cladophora Alexander, Can. Ent., vol. 52, 

 p. 142. 



The types are from Manaos, Brazil, October 31 to November 4, 



1919 (H. S. Parish); Itacoatiara, Brazil, October 22, 1919 (H. S. 

 Parish). Additional specimens were taken at Iquitos, Peru, March 

 10 to May 12, 1920 (H. S. Parish); Yurimaguas, Peru, April 17, 



1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Erioptera (Erioptera) annulipes Williston. 



1896. Erioptera annulipes Williston, Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1896, p. 294. 



Igarape Assii, Brazil, January 19, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 



Yurimaguas, Peru, April 7, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Amazonian material was sent to Mr. Edwards, of the British 

 Museum, for comparison with Williston's types (females). Mr. 

 Edwards reports the following differences: basal section of R t 

 shorter than crossvein, less than half as long as Ri+%; white pleural 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



stripe less conspicuous; white rings on legs rather narrower, the 

 seven black and white rings on hind tibiae all equal in length. Mr. 

 Edwards thinks that the two forms are probably specifically the 

 same, an opinion in which the writer concurs. 



Erioptera (Erioptera) apicialba sp. n. 



Sex? — Wing 2.8 mm. 



The type is badly eaten by ants. The species is related to E- 

 annulipes Williston, differing as follows: General coloration much 

 darker. Mesonotal praescutum dark gray with a broad brownish 

 median stripe that is narrowly divided by a pale line, the tuber- 

 culate pits lying one on either margin of this pale line; a small ob- 

 scure yellow area before the pseudosutural foveae; margin of the 

 praescutum narrowly whitish. Pleura dark brown; a narrow, but 

 conspicuous, ventral silvery white longitudinal stripe extending 

 from behind the fore coxae to the base of the abdomen; above the 

 hind coxae a much abbreviated similar stripe lying parallel with the 

 first; sternum heavily gray pruinose; dorso-pleural membranes sul- 

 phur yellow. Legs with the trochanters brown; tibiae with three 

 black bands, on the middle legs these being much broader than the 

 pale interspaces, on the posterior legs as wide as or narrower than 

 the interspaces. Wings with a uniform gray tinge; an indistinct 

 whitish suffusion across the disk in the region of the cord; the costal 

 margin, including cells C and Sc, white, interrupted by three small 

 dark brown spots, one each at the tips of Sc h Ri and R if these dark 

 areas being smaller than the interspaces; the entire wing-apex is 

 broadly white excepting a narrow seam along vein R t +& which 

 continues almost to the margin; rounded white spots in the ends of 

 cells 2nd R lf M 3 , Cui and Cu; veins dark brown, paler in the hya- 

 line areas, the veins that traverse the wing-apex being snowy-white, 

 including their macrotrichiae ; narrow brown seams at Sc 2 and along 

 the cord. Venation: cell 1 st M« open by the atrophy of m as in this 

 group of species; vein 2nd A gently arcuated near its tip. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, Sex?, Teff6, December 29, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Erioptera Mesocyphona parva brasiliensis Alexander. 



1913. Erioptera parva brasiliensis Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,vol. 44, 

 p. 514. 



The types were from Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 19-Febru- 

 ary 7, 1912 (H. S. Parish). Other material is available as follows: 

 Prata, June 30, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Manaos, Brazil, November 1, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, January 16, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Iquitos, Peru, March 20, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, March 25- April 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 




19211 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Erioptera (Mesocyphona) bicinctipes Alexander. 



1913. Erioptera bicinctipes Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, 

 pp. 519, 520. 



The types were from Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 25 to Febru- 

 ary 7, 1912 (H. S. Parish). The following additional records are 

 now available: 



Pratd, June 30, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Itacoatiara, Brazil, October 24, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Flores, Brazil, November 19, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Teffe, Brazil, December 22, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Iquitos, Peru, March, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Yurimaguas, Peru, April 7, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Napo River, Peru, June 6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Erioptera (Mesocyphona) diffusa sp. n. 



Related to E. eiseni Alexander; coloration of the mesonotum 

 yellowish, without markings; wings pale brown with large, ill- 

 defined whitish subhyaline spots; tip of vein M 3 lying free in the 

 membrane. 



Female. — Length 3.2 mm.; wing 2.9 mm. 



Head badly eaten by ants. Mesonotum yellow without darker 

 markings. Pleura light yellow with two narrow, rather ill-defined 

 brownish longitudinal stripes. Halteres broken. Legs with the 

 coxae and trochanters light yellow; femora pale brownish yellow, 

 the tips conspicuously golden yellow; a broad but ill-defined brown 

 subapical ring; sometimes there is a second dark ring near mid- 

 length of the segment; remainder of the legs yellow. Wings broad, 

 the costal region brown, the remainder of the membrane rather 

 pale yellowish brown, with about sixteen whitish subhyaline spots 

 arranged as follows: at arculus, at origin of Rs, at Sd, along the 

 cord and about ten at the apices of the cells between the ends of 

 the longitudinal veins; veins pale yellow. Venation: tip of vein 

 Mi lying free in the membrane, its basal connection with M1+2 

 lost by atrophy; tip of vein 2nd A curved strongly toward the wing- 

 tip. Abdomen brownish yellow, the sternites paler. Ovipositor 

 with the valves long and slender, the tergal valves acute at their 

 tips. 



Habitat. — Brazil . 



Holotype, 9 , Teffe, December 23, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Erioptera (Mesocyphona) invariegata sp. n. 



General coloration uniformly dark brown, this color including 

 the legs; wings uniformly brownish gray. 



Female. — Length about 2.5 mm. ; wing 2.9 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae dark brown, the 

 flagellar segments cylindrical. Head dark brown. Thorax dark 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



brown, the pleura faintly dusted with gray. Halteres pale brown, 

 the knobs darker brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters 

 dark brown; remainder of the legs uniformly brown. Wings uni- 

 formly brownish gray; veins pale brown. Venation: Sc long, Sci 

 ending about opposite one-third the length of Ri+ 3 ; r on R 2 a little 

 more than its own length beyond the fork of # 2 + s ; cell 1st M 2 open 

 by the atrophy of the outer deflection of M s ; basal deflection of 

 Cui immediately before the fork of M; 2nd Anal vein weakly bisinu- 

 ous. Abdomen dark brown; valves of the ovipositor long and 

 slender, acute; in the type, the tips of the tergal valves are decurved. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, 9 , Yurimaguas, March 23, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Erioptera invariegata differs from the other species of Mesocyphona 

 with unmarked wings in the uniformly dark brown legs. 



Genus MOLOPHILUS Curtis 

 1833. Molophilus Curtis, Brit. Ent., p. 444. 



EUMOLOPHILUS subgen. n. 



Generally similar to Molophilus, differing as follows: The tibiae 

 and metatarsi of the hind legs in both sexes are adorned with con- 

 spicuous erect fringes of long, dark hairs that give to the legs a 

 fan-like appearance. Male hypopygium with a conspicuous lyri- 

 form plate. 



Type of the subgenus. — Molophilus (Eumolophilus) thaumastopodus 

 Alexander (Brazil). 



This subgeneric group is proposed for two species of Amazonian 

 crane-flies that present a remarkable appearance, due to the con- 

 spicuous trichiation of the legs, especially the posterior tibiae and 

 metatarsi. The general appearance of the flies is not unlike that of 

 certain species of the Culicid genus Sabethes inhabiting this same 

 region. Although the general appearance of the two species referred 

 to this subgenus is very unlike typical Molophilus, the structural 

 details show the two groups to be closely allied. Besides the type 

 of the subgenus, the new species M. (E.) pennipes belongs to this 

 group. 



Molophilus (Eumolophilus) pennipes sp. n. 



Male. — Length about 5 mm. ; wing 4.5 mm. ; hind leg, femur, 4.9 

 mm.; tibia 3.9 mm. 



Female. — Length about 5 mm.; wing 4.8 mm.; hind leg, femur, 

 5.1 mm.; tibia 4.1 mm. 



Generally similar to M. (.E.) thaumastopodus Alexander, differing 

 as follows: size much larger as shown by the measurements. An- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



tennae of the male elongate, bicolorous, the base and apex of each 

 flagellar segment pale, the middle portion of each segment provided 

 with long, conspicuous, outspreading hairs, very much as in males 

 of the genus Polymera. The oar-like brushes on the posterior legs 

 with conspicuous violaceous reflexions. Male hypopygium with the 

 lyriform plate small, the two arms powerful, divergent, the tips 

 incurved; a little more than the apical third of each arm is pro- 

 vided on the inner face with conspicuous erect spines, those toward 

 the tip more appressed; among these spines, at about two-thirds 

 the length of the arm is an extensive cushion of short, erect, bristle- 

 like spines. In M. thaumastopodus, the arms of the lyriform plate 

 are slender, directed caudad and laterad, with only the tips directed 

 a little proximad; these arms are entirely smooth with the exception 

 of four or five appressed spines at the very tip on the inner face; 

 there is no evidence of a cushion of shorter bristles. 



Habitat. — Brazil, Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Santa Felipe, Brazil, June 26, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotype, 9 , Iquitos, Peru, May 25, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Molophilus (Eumolophilus) thaumastopodus Alexander. 



1913. Molophilus thaumastopodus Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 vol. 44, pp. 510, 511. 



The types were from Para and Igarape Assu, Brazil. Other ma- 

 terial is from Flores, Brazil, November 10, 1919; Manaos, Brazil, 

 November 1, 1919 (H. S. Parish); and Teffe, Brazil (H. S. Parish). 



Genus CRYPTOLABIS Osten Sacken. 

 1859. Cryplolabis Osten Sacken, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 224. 

 Cryptolabis (Cryptolabis) tenuicincta sp. n. 



General coloration whitish testaceous, thoracic pleura with a 

 conspicuous brown longitudinal stripe; wings subhyaline with a 

 brown spot at the arculus and a narrow brown crossband at the 

 cord; cell M 3 very deep, extending basad almost to the fork of M, 

 an apparent m-cu cross vein being formed. 



Sexf— Wing 4.2 mm. 



Head lacking in the unique type. Mesonotum pale whitish testa" 

 ceous, unmarked with darker. Pleura concolorous with the dor" 

 sum, the dorsal sclerites with a broad, dark brown, longitudina 1 

 stripe extending from the cervical sclerites to beneath the nxr 

 of the halteres. Halteres pale, the knobs broken. Legs with th e 

 coxae and trochanters whitish testaceous; femora and tibiae pale; 

 tarsi broken; femora and tibiae with conspicuous, erect, pale hairs. 

 Wings subhyaline; a brownish spot at the arculus; a narrow and 

 indistinct brownish seam along the cord, beginning as a faint double 

 marking on Rs and R 2 + 3 , continued caudad across the wing to the 

 posterior margin; veins pale, darker in the infuscated areas. Sparse 

 macrotrichiae in the distal ends of cells 2nd R h R t , R*, Rs, Mi, M 3 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



and Cui. Venation: Rs short, straight or feebly convex as in the 

 genus, cell 1st Ri consequently subtriangular as in C. paradoxa and 

 allies; Ri+ 3 a little more than one-half Rs; basal deflection of R* 

 perpendicular to Ri+ 3 , in alignment with r; basal deflection of 

 Ri+ b punctiform, almost in alignment with Rs; r-m long, about two- 

 thirds of Rs; cell M 3 very deep, vein M 3 originating basad of the 

 deflection of Cu h in all other species of the genus, vein M 3 arises 

 distad of the deflection of Cui and cell M$ is consequently petiolate; 

 in the present species, cell M 3 is entirely sessile; there thus appears 

 to be a long m-cu crossvein preserved that is about half as long as 

 the deflection of Cu x . Abdomen lacking. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, Sex?, Yurimaguas, April 10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Although the type specimen of this interesting new species of 

 Cryptolabis is badly eaten by Psocids, it is described in order to 

 present a new venational peculiarity in the tribe, the apparent re- 

 tention of the m-cu crossvein. The discovery of this fly lends sup- 

 port to Tillyard's theory of a four-branched media in the gener- 

 alized Diptera. By adopting this theory in the present instance, 

 the apparent m-cu crossvein becomes the basal section of Mi and 

 this would seem to be a far more logical interpretation than to 

 consider the element as being m-cu, since this is lacking in almost 

 every known Limnobiine crane-fly. 



Genus GNOPHOMYIA Osten Sacken. 

 1859. Gnophomyia Osten Sacken, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 223. 



Species of Gnophomyia are rather numerous in the Amazonian 

 Region. Additional species will very probably be discovered, es- 

 pecially in Peruvian territory. 



Gnophomyia rubicundula sp. n. 



General coloration black, the mesonotum and dorsal thoracic 

 pleurites reddish orange; wings with a brownish tinge; no macro- 

 trichiae in the cells of the wing; Sc long, ending opposite r; Rs rela- 

 tively short and straight; veins Ri and R 3 long and parallel; basal 

 deflection of R t +i very short, in alignment with Rs. 



Male. — Length about 7.8 mm.; wing 7.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi black. Antennae black, moderately elong- 

 ated; flagellar segments cylindrical. Head black. Pronotum black, 

 the lateral margins of the scutellum yellowish. Mesonotum reddish 

 orange, unmarked. Propleura and ventral portions of the meso- 

 pleura and metapleura blackish; dorsal pleurites reddish orange. 

 Sternites black. Halteres black, the base of the stem obscure 

 orange. Legs with the coxae and trochanters black; remainder 

 of the legs black, the extreme bases of the fore femora a little bright- 

 ened. Wings with a brownish tinge; costal and subcostal cells and 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



the anal angle a little darker; stigma very narrow and indistinctly 

 brownish; veins brownish black. Venation: Sc long, Sci extending 

 to just beyond r, Sc 2 some distance from the tip of Sc 1} the latter 

 alone being longer than the basal deflection of Cui; Rs relatively 

 short and almost straight; R 2 + 3 about one-third longer than the 

 basal deflection of Cu x and more than one-half of Rs; r on R 2 a little 

 more than its own length beyond the fork of #2+3; veins R 2 and 

 Rs long, running parallel to one another; basal deflection of R t +s 

 very short, almost in alignment with Rs and the distal section of 

 Ri+&; cell 1st M 2 long and narrow, widened distally, m and the 

 outer deflection of M 3 subequal; basal deflection of Cui at about 

 one-third the length of cell 1st M 2 ; vein 2nd A straight. Abdomen 

 black. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Yurimaguas, April 1, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gnophomyia axillaris sp. n. 



General coloration black; wings subhyaline, the costal and sub- 

 costal cells, the stigma and the wing-axil brown. 

 Male. — Length about 6 mm. , wing 6.3 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi black. Antennae black. Head black. Tho- 

 rax deep black, including the legs and halteres. Wings subhyaline; 

 costal and subcostal cells, the stigma and the wing-axil brown; 

 faint brown seams along Cu and at the wing-apex; veins 'dark brown. 

 Venation: Sc long, Sci extending to beyond two-thirds the length 

 of Rs; Set some distance from the tip of Sci, the latter alone being 

 nearly equal to R 2 3 ; Rs straight, in alignment with R, + s , the 

 deflection of the latter obliterated; R 2 + 3 straight; r faint, on R t 

 at about its own length beyond the fork of R 2 + 3 ; cell 1st M 2 long 

 and narrow, widened distally; basal deflection of Cui at just before 

 one-third its length. Abdomen black. Male hypopygium with the 

 longest pleural appendage acicular, tapering to the subacute tip. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, o 71 , Iquitos, May 24, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gnophomyia nigrina (Wiedemann) 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, July 16, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Prata, Brazil, July 1-4, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, December 25, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, March 21- April 20, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gnophomyia subhyalina Alexander. 



1913. Gnophomyia subhyalina Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, 

 p. 523. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Prata, Brazil, July 4, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Flores, Brazil, November 14, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, December 22, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Gnophomyia bisecta Alexander. 



1920. Gnophomyia bisecta Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 31, pp. 72, 73. 



The type was from Parintins, Brazil, October 3, 1919 (H. S. 

 Parish) . Other specimens were taken at Manaos, Brazil, October 31, 

 1919, and at Teffe, Brazil, December 16-23, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gnophomyia osten-sackeni Skuse. 



1887. Gnophomyia fascipennis Osten Sacken, Berl. Ent. Zeitsch., Bd. 31, 



pt. 2, pp. 199, 200 (preoccupied). 

 1889. Gnophomyia osten-sackeni Skuse, Proc. Linn. Soc. New South Wales, 



ser 2, vol. 4, p. 825. 



The type was collected along the Amazon River by Bates. 



Gnophomyia leucoplaca sp. n. 



General coloration black; mesonotal scutum, scutellum and post- 

 notum and the dorsal sclerites of the pleura orange; wings dark 

 brown with a broad whitish crossband near midlength; cells of the 

 wing beyond the cord with abundant macrotrichiae. 



Female. — Length 7.7 mm. ; wing 7 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi black. Antennae black, rather long for this 

 sex, the segments oval. Head black. Pronotum black. Meso- 

 notal praescutum black, the lateral margins obscure orange; re- 

 mainder of the mesonotum orange. Pleura with the ventral sclerites 

 black, the dorsal region abruptly orange; a brownish spot beneath 

 the wing-root. Halteres brownish black, the extreme base of the 

 stem indistinctly paler. Legs black. Wings dark brown with a 

 broad whitish crossband near midlength; costal and subcostal cells 

 uniformly dark; base of the wing darkened to slightly beyond the 

 level of the origin of Rs, paler brown in the anal cells, this color 

 continued indistinctly along vein Cu to the wing-margin; wing- 

 apex dark brown, this including all of cells 2nd R u R i} R 3 , R*, 2nd 

 M 2 , the outer end of 1st Ri; the cephalic half of 1st Mi, all but the 

 base of M 3 and the outer cephalic end of Cu x ; the white crossband 

 includes all but the base and tip of cell 1st R h - ends of cells R, M 

 and Cu; bases of cells 1st Mi, M s and Cu u Conspicuous macro- 

 trichiae in cells 2nd R lf R t , R 3 , R h 1st Mi, 2nd Mi, M 3 and Cu i} 

 thus occupying practically all the wing-disk beyond the cord. Vena- 

 tion: Sc moderately long, Sci extending to just before the end of 

 Rs, Sd rather close to the tip of Sc h the latter being a little shorter 

 than m; Rs long, gently arcuated; Ri+ 3 shorter than the basal de- 

 flection of Cui; r on Ri+ 3 immediately before the fork; basal de- 

 flection of Ri+i weakly angulated; cell 1st Mi small, subquadrate; 

 m and outer deflection of M 3 subequal; basal deflection of Cu t shortly 

 beyond the fork of M ; vein 2nd A sinuous. Abdomen black. Ovi- 

 positor with the tergal valves slender, strongly upcurved. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Hole-type, 9 , Teffe, January 12, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus GONOMYIA Meigen. 

 1818. Gonomyia Meigen, Syst. Beschr., Bd. 1, p. 146. 



The genus Gonomyia is one of the characteristic Tipulid genera 

 throughout the tropics of the New World. Species of the sub- 

 genus Leiponeura Skuse are especially abundant in the Amazonian 

 Region. 



Gonomyia (Progonomyia) parsensis Alexander. 



1920. Gonomyia (Gonomyella) paroensis Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 

 vol. 28, pp. 7, 8. 



The types were taken at Prata, Brazil, June 30, 1919 (H. S. 

 Parish) . 

 The name Progonomyia is a re-naming of Gonomyella Alexander. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) pleuralis (Williston) 



1896. Atarba pleuralis Williston, Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1896, p. 289. 



Manaos, Brazil, October 31-November 4, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Flores, Brazil, November 10, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) amazona Alexander. 



1912. Gonomyia (Leiponeura) amazona Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 23, 

 pp. 418-420. 



Napo River, Peru, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



The male hypopygium was described and figured by the writer 

 at the time of the original characterization of the species. The 

 details of the pleurites and appendages are not clearly indicated 

 there and may be further discussed as follows : 



Outer lateral angle of the pleurite produced into a large, fleshy 

 cylindrical lobe; two pleural appendages, the ventral appendage 

 small, chitinized, appearing as a small blackened* cylinder with the 

 tip narrowly split, at the base with an acute blackened spine ; dorsal 

 pleural appendage fleshy, much larger than the chitinized append- 

 age, before the tip with a small acute spine, at the tip with two 

 powerful bristles; proximal face with about a dozen additional 

 bristles. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) acuminata sp. n. Plate IV, flg. 1. 



Belongs to the cinerea group; antennal flagellum orange-yellow 

 on the basal half; head yellow with a brown vertical mark; thoracic 

 pleura with a conspicuous longitudinal yellow stripe; wings with 

 Sc short; male hypopygium with four pleural appendages, the longest 

 acuminate, bearing a long, acute spine a short distance beyond 

 the base. 



Male. — Length about 3.8 mm.; wing 3.7 mm. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part 1 



Female. — Length about 4.6 mm.; wing 4.5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae with the scape dark 

 brown; flagellar segments orange-yellow, on the outer half of the 

 organ passing into brown; flagellar segments provided with very- 

 long verticils in the male. Head light yellow, the vertex with a 

 large median dark brown mark. Pronotum yellow, dark brown 

 medially, the scutellum light sulphur yellow. Mesonotum dark 

 brown, the scutellum narrowly margined posteriorly with obscure 

 yellow. Pleura deep purplish brown, sparsely pruinose; dorsal 

 sclerites obscure brownish yellow; a very conspicuous, moderately 

 broad yellow longitudinal stripe extending from the posterior face 

 of the fore coxae, passing above the mid and hind coxae to the 

 base of the abdomen. Halteres yellow, the base darker; knobs 

 broken. Legs with the fore coxae purplish brown with a yellow 

 spot on the posterior face; mid-coxae purplish brown; posterior 

 coxae obscure yellow, only slightly darkened basally; trochanters 

 obscure yellow; femora pale yellow with a narrow brown subter- 

 minal ring; the fore legs are broken but the femora are probably 

 dark brown as in this group of species ; tibiae and metatarsi yellow, 

 the tips narrowly infuscated; remainder of the tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings with a strong grayish tinge; cells C, Sc and most of R i china- 

 white; stigma oval, brownish gray; veins pale brown, the costa 

 china-white. Venation: Sci ending far before the origin of Rs, 

 this distance being greater than the length of Rs; Rs short, strongly 

 arcuated at origin; cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of the outer 

 deflection of M 3 ; basal deflection of Cui at the fork of M . Abdomen 

 dark brown, the tergites narrowly margined posteriorly with obscure 

 yellow, broader on the posterior segments; sternites more uniformly 

 brown. Male hypopygium (Plate IV, Fig. 1) with the pleurites 

 rather short and stout, shorter than the longest pleural appendage; 

 pleural appendages four in number ; the longest or ventral appendage 

 is a slender, slightly curved, chitinized arm that tapers gradually 

 to the rather blunt apex, near the base on the inner face with a 

 prominent, acute spine that is about two-fifths as long as the apical 

 point; the second appendage is an apical, elongate needle-like rod 

 directed proximad, tapering to the acute blackened point; third 

 appendage elongate-triangular, the apex a slightly curved black 

 spine; the fourth or dorsal appendage is a pale fleshy lobe, roughly 

 triangular in form, the apex produced into a cylindrical arm, this 

 arm and the proximal face of the appendage set with about seventeen 

 mostly powerful bristles. The penis-guard is a small, feebly chitin- 

 ized structure that is subtended by the much longer gonapophyses, 

 these appearing as two delicate setigerous cushions. 



Habitat. — Peru, Argentina. 



Holotype, d", Iquitos, Peru, May 18, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Allotopotype, 9 , May 11, 1920. 



Paratype, cf, Famailla, Tucuman, Argentina, October 12, 1920 

 (V. Weiser). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) falcifer sp. n. Plate IV, fig. 2. 



Belongs to the cinerea group ; male hypopygium with three pleural 

 appendages, the ventral appendage elongate, falcate, on its proximal 

 face near the base with two erect spines; dorsal appendage a small, 

 pale, setigerous lobe; penis-guard and gonapophyses without con- 

 spicuous chitinized parts. 



Male. — Length about 3.5 mm.; wing 3.8 mm. 



Generally similar to G. (L.) acuminata sp. n., differing as follows: 

 Posterior lateral margins of the mesonotal scutum more distinctly 

 yellowish. Fore legs present in the type; femora dark brown with 

 only the bases narrowly paler. Wings with Rs a little straighter. 

 Male hypopygium (Plate IV, Fig. 2) conspicuously different from 

 any described species. The pleurites are a little longer than in 

 acuminata; pleural appendages only three in number; the longest 

 or ventral of these is broad basally and here produced on the prox- 

 imal face into two short, subacute spines that are directed caudad, 

 one of these blackened and with the margin weakly serrulate, the 

 other spine a little longer, pale, only the acute tip a little darkened ; 

 the outer or lateral face of this appendage runs caudad into a long, 

 moderately slender curved point that is approximately as long 

 as the pleurite itself, the tip obtusely and indistinctly recurved, 

 the inner margin weakly serrulate; the intermediate pleural append- 

 age is a small, flattened blade, pale at the base, the tip produced 

 into two conspicuous blackened spines ; the third or dorsal appendage 

 is a small, roughly subglobular lobe, pale, provided with about 

 ten conspicuous setae. Penis-guard and gonapophyses pale with 

 few evident chitinized parts; the gonapophyses appear as two pale 

 cushions that are microscopically setigerous. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, cf, Yurimaguas, April 13, 1920 (H. S. Parish). . 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) machaeria sp. n. 



Closely related to G. helophila Alexander; male hypopygium with 

 the ventral pleural appendage sword-like, the basal half dilated; 

 dorsal appendage entirely fleshy with a small, oval, glabrous lobe 

 at its base; no intermediate appendage. 



Male. — Length about 3.2 mm.; wing 3 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennal scape orange; flagel- 

 lum broken. Head brown, paler behind. Pronotum light yellow. 

 Mesonotal praescutum gray with four narrow, brown, longitudinal 

 stripes, the intermediate pair longer and almost confluent ; scutal 

 lobes brown; scutellum and postnotum light gray pruinose. Pleura 

 dark brown, with a broad white longitudinal stripe, beginning im- 

 mediately behind the fore coxae, passing ventrad of the halteres 

 to the base of the abdomen ; dorsad of this conspicuous white stripe 

 is a very narrow and less distinct silvery-gray stripe that branches 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



out ventrad of the wing-root, passing dorsad of the halteres; the 

 dark brown line that separates these two pale stripes is about as 

 wide as the narrow dorsal stripe. Halteres light brown, the knobs 

 broken. Legs with the coxae and trochanters yellow; fore femora 

 dark brown; other femora brownish yellow, with a narrow apical or 

 subapical darker brown ring; tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Wings 

 with a faint grayish tinge; stigma indistinctly brownish; veins pale 

 brown, the costal margin whitish; veins comprising the cord darker 

 brown. Venation: Sc short, Sc t ending a short distance before 

 the origin of Rs, the distance being about equal to r-m or a little 

 less; Set a short distance from the tip of Sci; Rs short, subangulate 

 at origin; cell 1st Mi open by the atrophy of the outer deflection of 

 M 3 ; basal deflection of Cut immediately before the fork of M . Ab- 

 dominal tergites dark brown, the sternites more obscure brown. 

 Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage somewhat sword- 

 like in appearance, heavily chitinized, before midlength dilated into 

 a flattened wing; apex of this appendage subcylindrical, the tip 

 suddenly narrowed; dorsal pleural appendage entirely fleshy as in 

 G. helophila, at the base with a small, oval, glabrous lobe; the en- 

 larged apex of the appendage with numerous setae; no intermediate 

 pleural appendage as in G. helophila. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Iquitos, March 5, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) phcrcctenia sp. n. Plate IV, fig. 7. 



Rostrum reddish orange; antennae dark brownish black; meso- 

 notum brown, the scutum with the anterior median area yellow; 

 scutellum broadly margined caudally with yellowish; pleura dark, 

 blue-gray pruinose, the dorso-pleural membrane and a broad, longi- 

 tudinal stripe yellowish; halteres with the knobs yellow; wings 

 strongly tinged with brown ; male hypopygium with a single pleural 

 appendage; penis-guard and gonapophyses complex and asymmet- 

 rical; region of the ninth tergite with two combs of small spines. 



Male. — Length about 4 mm.; wing 3.8 mm. 



Rostrum reddish orange; palpi dark brown. Antennae dark 

 brownish black, the second scapal segment enlarged, suboval; flagel- 

 lum with very long verticils in the male. Head dark, the vertex 

 behind yellowish pollinose. Pronotal scutellum light sulphur yellow. 

 Mesonotal praescutum brown, the lateral margins caudad of the 

 level of the pseudosutural foveae more bluish; scutum dark with a 

 brownish bloom, the anterior median area dull yellow; scutellum 

 broadly dull yellow behind; postnotum light gray pruinose. Pleura 

 with the dorso-pleural membranes dull yellow; remainder of the 

 pleura dark, blue-gray pruinose, with a broad but ill-defined yellow-, 

 ish white longitudinal stripe that extends from behind the fore coxae 

 past the root of the halteres to the abdomen. Halteres pale, the 

 knobs yellow. Legs with the coxae blue-gray; trochanters dusky; 

 remainder of the legs dark brown. Wings relatively broad, with a 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



strong brownish tinge; cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 seamed 

 with slightly darker brown; stigmal region barely darkened; veins 

 brown. Venation: Sc relatively long, Sci ending immediately be- 

 fore the origin of Rs, So* a short distance from the tip of Sc l} Sci 

 alone being a little longer than the outer deflection of M 3 ; Rs slightly 

 sinuous; Rt+ 3 nearly straight; cell Ri nearly parallel-sided. Ab- 

 dominal tergites brown, the sternites a little paler. Male hypo- 

 pygium (Plate IV, Fig. 7) with the pleurites long and slender, clothed 

 with erect bristles of which two or three on the outer distal end 

 are very long; a single pleural appendage, this roughly subcircular 

 in outline, entirely pale, the inner face produced proximad into 

 a large, pale, compressed bristle or fascicle of bristles; surrounding 

 this powerful bristle are about five smaller setae. The penis-guard 

 and gonapophyses form a powerful cylindrical mass that occupies 

 about all of the genital chamber; the penis-guard is long and slender, 

 sinuous, as in the manca group of the subgenus. Of the gona- 

 pophyses the two longest are unequal in size, both blackened apic- 

 ally, elongate, flattened, with one margin serrulate; at the base of 

 these appendages is a small, powerful black tooth with numerous 

 plush-like hairs at its base. What appears to be projections of the 

 ninth tergite are cylindrical arms tipped with a palmate cluster of 

 about eight powerful spines, the more lateral of these shorter, gradu- 

 ally lengthening proximad, the innermost being replaced by abun- 

 dant long bristles. 



Habitat . — Peru . 



Holotype, d\ Iquitos, May 18, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gonomyia phoroctenia, together with two other species described 

 at this time, G. ctenophora and G. crepuscula, form a group of three 

 very closely related species with the general body coloration very 

 similar but the details of structure of the male hypopygium strik- 

 ingly different. To these there should probably be added G. bi- 

 spinosa sp. n., although in this form there are two pleural append- 

 ages and the comb on the ninth tergite is reduced to a pad of deli- 

 cate appressed setae. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) ctenophora sp. n. Plate IV, fig. 6. 



Male. — Length about 3.8 mm.; wing 3.5 mm. 



Generally similar to G. (L.) phoroctenia sp. n., differing as follows: 

 Size slightly smaller. Scutellum even more brownish yellow behind. 

 Dorso-pleural membranes and pleural stripe brighter yellow. Wings 

 a little narrower and paler. Male hypopygium (Plate IV, Fig. 6) 

 with the pleurites long and slender, clothed with long bristles that 

 become longer toward the apex of the sclerite on the outer face; 

 a single pleural appendage, this roughly cylindrical in form with a 

 conspicuous blackened spine on the outer margin near midlength; 

 the narrowed cylindrical tip produced into a bristle or fascicle of 

 bristles; a few additional setae are grouped on this narrowed apex. 

 The penis-guard and gonapophyses are not as large or complicated 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



in structure as in phoroctenia, there being two elongate, blade-like 

 structures that are blackened at their tips. The penis-guard itself 

 is flattened, the margin produced into an acicular spine; at the base 

 of the penis-guard is a small bottle-shaped appendage with the 

 neck heavily blackened. On the ninth tergite are two cylindrical 

 arms as in phoroctenia, these bearing a comb of six powerful curved 

 teeth, shortest proximally, gradually lengthening toward the out- 

 side; the outer lateral angles are replaced by long yellowish hairs. 

 In the slide mounts of phoroctenia these arms are directed cephalad 

 and the teeth are on the lateral side but this condition may be due 

 to torsion in mounting. The -figures show the hypopygia as they 

 appear on the slides. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Iquitos, May 17, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, <?, May 15, 1920. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) crepuscula sp. n. Plate IV, figs. 5, 5A. 



Male. — Length about 3.7 mm. ; wing 3.8 mm. 



Generally similar to G. (L.) phoroctenia, sp. n., differing as follows: 

 Sci ending a short distance before the origin of Rs; basal deflection 

 of Cui a short distance before the fork of M. Male hypopygium 

 (Plate IV, Figs. 5, 5A) with the pleurites long and slender, clothed 

 with bristles as in phoroctenia. A single pleural appendage, this 

 appearing as a short curved chitinized horn, the tips acute. Gona- 

 pophyses and penis-guard forming a complicated mass as in phoroc- 

 tenia, there being two elongate organs, one slightly bent at the 

 apex and heavily blackened, the second, which is presumably the 

 penis-guard, pale, narrowed to the acute tip. Besides these there 

 is a blackened flattened plate surrounding the penis-guard. The 

 general arrangement of teeth on the ninth tergite is here approxi- 

 mately as in phoroctenia and ctenophora but the number of teeth is 

 greatly reduced, there being but three or four of these, the outer- 

 most being very much more powerful than any of the others, the 

 inner angle clothed with delicate appressed hairs. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Napo River, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) bispinosa sp. n. Plate IV, figs. 4, 4A. 



Rostrum obscure reddish orange; antennae dark brown; pleura 

 pale yellow, heavily pruinose with snowy white, the longitudinal 

 stripe being very broad and ill-defined; knobs of the halteres yellow; 

 male hypopygium with the pleural appendages two in number, 

 similar to one another in shape, cylindrical, curved, each tipped 

 with a powerful curved spine; penis-guard relatively long and slender. 



Male. — Length about 3 mm.; wing 3.3 mm. 



Rostrum obscure reddish orange. Antennae with the second 

 scapal segment enlarged, subglobular, dark brown, the lower sur- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



face more reddish; flagellum dark brown. The thoracic pleura is 

 largely pale yellow, snowy- white pollinose, this appearing as an 

 ill-defined, very broad, longitudinal stripe. Halteres brown, the 

 base pale, the knobs yellow. Legs with the coxae brown; trochanters 

 more testaceous; remainder of the legs brown. Wings grayish sub- 

 hyaline; veins pale brown. Venation: Sc rather short, ending 

 some distance before the origin of Rs; Ri+ 3 nearly straight, at the 

 outer end curved suddenly cephalad; basal deflection of Cui just 

 before the fork of M. Abdomen dark brown, the sternites paler. 

 Male hypopygium (Plate IV, Fig. 4, 4A) with the pleurites rela- 

 tively short and stout ; two pleural appendages borne at the extreme 

 apices of the pleurites; these appendages are very similar to one 

 another in general shape but the outer one is slightly larger than 

 the inner one. They appear as pale, cylindrical, gently curved 

 appendages, the tips suddenly narrowed into powerful blackened 

 spines; before the blackened tips with three or four small setae. 

 The penis-guard is relatively long and slender, tapering gradually 

 to the apex. The two patches of spines borne by G. phoroctenia 

 and allies are here represented by two pads of delicate appressed 

 setae, no spines being evident. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Iquitos, May 25, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) spicata sp. n. Plate IV, fig. 3. 



Rostrum brownish black; antennal scape yellowish, flagellum 

 black; thoracic pleura brown with a broad, conspicuous, yellowish 

 white longitudinal stripe; knobs of the halteres yellow, male hypo- 

 pygium with two pleural appendages, the ventral appendage being 

 a powerful, chitinized spike with the tip prolonged into an acute 

 point; the dorsal appendage is very small and fleshy; gonapophyses 

 and penis-guard arranged in pairs. 



Male. — Length about 3 mm.; wing 3.2-3.3 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi brownish black. Antennae with the scapa- 

 segments yellow, the flagellum black, the segments with conspicuous 

 verticils. Head yellow, the vertex marked with dark brown. Mesol 

 notum brown, narrowly yellowish laterally; median area of the 

 scutum broadly yellow; scutellum broadly obscure yellow behind; 

 postnotum obscure yellow anteriorly, passing into brown on the 

 caudal half. Pleura brown, the dorso-pleural membranes and the 

 posterior sclerites light yellow; a broad, conspicuous yellowish white 

 longitudinal stripe extending from the fore coxae to the base of 

 the abdomen, passing immediately beneath the base of the halteres. 

 Halteres light brown, the knobs yellow. Legs with the fore coxae 

 yellowish on the outer face; middle and hind coxae with the outer 

 faces infuscated basally, sparsely pruinose; trochanters light brown; 

 remainder of the legs brown. Wings with a strong brownish tinge, 

 the costal and subcostal cells paler; veins pale brown. Venation: 

 Sci ending opposite the origin of Rs, Sc 2 rather close to the tip, 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Sci alone being about equal to m; Rs slightly angulated at origin; 

 basal deflection of Cu x immediately beyond the fork of M. Ab- 

 dominal tergites light brown, more yellowish laterally; sternites 

 paler. Male hypopygium (Plate IV, fig. 3) with the pleurites mod- 

 erately stout, the outer lateral angle extended into a pale fleshy 

 lobe; two pleural appendages, the ventral appendage a powerful 

 chitinized spike, the base cylindrical, soon bent strongly proximad, 

 slightly enlarged, gradually narrowed to the acute, needle-like point; 

 in the paratype figured, there is a small, acute spine on the cephalic 

 side opposite the bend; dorsal pleural appendage a relatively small, 

 pale, fleshy lobe, the truncated apex provided with about a dozen 

 setae of which one is much more powerful than the others. Gona- 

 pophyses and penis-guard arranged in pairs, there being three sets 

 of structures; the ventral pair arise from an enlarged base, slender, 

 the obtuse tips a little dilated and directed slightly ventrad; the 

 middle pair which are presumably the guards of the penis are longer, 

 the obtuse apices a little dilated; the third or dorsal pair consist 

 of two parallel, cylindrical lobes that bear two or three bristles 

 along the outer margin and two others at the apex of each. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d 71 , Napo River, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratype, cT, Yurimaguas, April 17, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus PARATROPESA Schiner. 

 1866. Paratropesa Schiner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, p. 932. 



The only species of Paratropeza known from the Amazons is 

 P. collaris Osten Sacken. 



Paratropesa collaris Osten Sacken. 



1887. Paratropesa collaris Osten Sacken, Berl. Ent. Zeitsch., Bd. 31, 

 pt. 2, p. 190. 



The type was collected by Bates along the Upper Amazon River, 



possibly at Teffe. 



Genus TEUCHOLABIS Osten Sacken. 

 1859. Teucholabis Osten Sacken, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 222. 



Teucholabis is one of the dominant crane-fly genera in the Tropics 

 of the New World. 



Teucholabis pulchella Alexander. 



1913. Teucholabis pulchella Alexander, Psyche, vol. 20, p. 44. 



The type is from Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 30, 1912 (H. S. 

 Parish) . 



Teucholabis decora Alexander. 



1920. Teucholabis decora Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 31, pp. 71, 72. 



The type is from Igarape Assu, Brazil, June 25, 1919 (H. S. Par- 

 ish). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Teucholabis melanocephala (Fabricius) 



Flores, Brazil, November 10, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, January 9, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 1-17, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, July 10, 1920 (Native Collector). 



Teucholabis mendax Alexander. 



1920. Teucholabis mendax Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 28, 

 pp. 5, 6. 



The type was from Prata, Brazil, June 30, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Additional records are as follows : 

 Iquitos, Peru, March 16, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 9-10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 14, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Teucholabis lugubris Alexander. 



1914. Teucholabis lugubris Alexander, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, 

 p. 234. 



This interesting species had hitherto been known only from British 

 Guiana. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, July 15, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Teucholabis anthracina sp. n. 



General coloration shiny coal-black; wings subhyaline with a 

 broad brown crossband at the cord; wing-apex broadly darkened 

 but the apical cells with pale centers; no distinct basal band. 



Male. — Length 4.6 mm. ; wing 5.2 mm. 



Rostrum slender, nearly as long as the remainder of the head, 

 black; palpi black. Antennae black. Head black. Pronotum and 

 mesonotum shiny coal-black. Pleura black, sparsely gray pruinose. 

 Halteres black. Legs black, the extreme bases of the femora very 

 slightly paler. Wings subhyaline; a broad brown crossband at the 

 cord, wing-tip brown, this coloration continued basad along the 

 veins as broad seams that extend almost to the level of the outer 

 end of cell 1st Ms, the centers of the cells being pale; the band along 

 the cord begins at the large oval stigma, continuing caudad but 

 becoming narrow and indistinct at the fork of Cu; the centers of 

 the cells in the wing- tip that are pale include cells R h R h 2nd M t 

 and M 3 ; there is no distinct basal band as in T. rostrata Enderlein, 

 merely a faint cloud in the base of cell Cu; veins dark brown. Vena- 

 tion: Sc long, Sci extending to just beyond midlength of Rs, Sd 

 alone being a little shorter than r; Rs long, arcuated; r on R 2 +z 

 about half its length beyond the fork of Rs; Ri beyond r a little 

 longer than r; cell 1st M 2 long and narrow, widened distally; basal 

 deflection of Cu 1 beyond the fork of M, the distance about equal to 

 r-m. Abdomen coal-black. Male hypopygium with the pleural 

 appendages complex, consisting of three appendages; the outermost 




86 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



one is an elongate cylindrical rod that terminates in a curved chitin- 

 ized hook, the inner face before the hook fringed with erect yellow 

 hairs; the intermediate appendage is a little longer, bearing a sharp 

 spine on the inner face beyond midlength, the surface of this append- 

 age with scattered coarse bristles ; the proximal appendage is smaller, 

 irregularly bifid, complicated in structure. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Napo River, June 14, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Teucholabis jocosa Alexander. 



1913. Teucholabis jocosa Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 24, pp. ,440, 441. 



Teffe\ Brazil, December 27, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, March 28, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Teucholabis omissinervis sp. n. 



General coloration yellow, the anterior median area of the meso- 

 notal praescutum slightly darkened; legs yellow, only the terminal 

 tarsal segments darkened; wings yellow, unmarked; cell 1st Mi 

 open by the atrophy of the outer deflection of M 3 . 



Male. — Wing 4.4 mm. 

 Female. — Wing about 4.2 mm. 



Head lacking. Pronotum yellow. Mesonotum clear reddish yel- 

 low, the anterior median area of the praescutum in some specimens 

 a little darkened. Pleura whitish yellow, a little darker dorsally 

 to produce an indistinct longitudinal stripe. Halteres pale, the 

 knobs a little darker. Legs yellow, the terminal tarsal segments 

 infuscated. Wings with a yellowish tinge, more saturated in the 

 costal region; stigma rather indistinct, yellowish; veins yellow. 

 Membrane with the microtrichiae larger than usual in the genus. 

 Venation: Sc of moderate length, Sci ending just before midlength 

 of Rs; Rs long, gently arcuated; r on Ri+ 3 less than its length beyond 

 the fork of Rs; cell 1st Mi open by the atrophy of the outer deflec- 

 tion of M 3 ; petiole of cell 2nd Mi about equal to the cell; basal de- 

 flection of Cui at or a short distance beyond the fork of M . Abdo- 

 men brownish yellow. Male hypopygium with the pleural append- 

 ages moderately complicated, a long, digitiform hairy lobe and 

 two chitinized blades, the outer of which is acicular, the inner one 

 flattened, shaped somewhat like a pruning knife, the apex black- 

 ened. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d", Yurimaguas, April 7, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotopotype, 9 , April 7, 1920. 

 » Paratopotypes, 3 9 's, April 7-10, 1920. 



Teucholabis omissinervis is readily told from all described species 

 of the genus by the open cell 1st M t . 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Teucholabis parishi Alexander. 



1913. Teucholabis parishi Alexander, Psyche, vol. 20, pp. 46, 47. 



The unique type of this species was taken at Igarape Assu, Brazil, 



January 30, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 



i 



Teucholabis persimilis Alexander. 



1920. Teucholabis persimilis Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 28, 

 pp. 6, 7. 



The unique type of T. 'persimilis was taken at Igarape Assu, 

 Brazil, July 15, 1919 (H. S. Parish). - 



Genus TRENTEPOHUA Bigot. 



Trentepohlia is well represented in tropical America, almost all 

 the species belonging to the subgenus Paramongoma Brunetti. 



Trentepohlia (Paramongoma) extensa (Alexander) 



1913. Mongoma extensa Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, pp. 

 501, 502. 



Obidos, Brazil, August 27-September 20, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Parintins, Brazil, October 10, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Itacoatiara, Brazil, October 17, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Specimens of this species and T. longifusa were sent to Mr. Ed- 

 wards for comparison with Williston's types. He points out the 

 following differences between the present species and Trentepohlia 

 manca (Williston). 



"T. manca (Williston). Thorax bright ochreous, almost orange. 

 Legs light brown. Wings with a suggestion of clouding along the 

 veins towards the apex and on the crossveins. R 2 longer and more 

 oblique, cell R t distinctly stalked; branches of Cu diverging at an 

 angle of about 150°; 2nd A longer, ending distinctly beyond the 

 anal angle; cell 2nd A broader. 



'T. extensa (Alexander). Thorax dull brown. Legs darker 

 brown. Wings clear except for stigma. Ri shorter; cell Rt sessile; 

 angle of Cu at most 120°; 2nd A shorter, ending at the barely per- 

 ceptible anal angle. 



"I should consider the two species distinct. Williston had three 

 d\ one 9 •" — F. W. Edwards. 



Trentepohlia (Paramongoma) longifusa (Alexander) 



1913. Mongoma longifusa Alexander, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, p. 502. 



The type locality is Igarape' Assu, Brazil, January 19, 1912 (H. S. 

 Parish). One other specimen was taken at Prata, June 30, 1919 

 (H. S. Parish). This latter specimen was sent to Mr. F. W. Ed- 

 wards, of the British Museum, who very kindly compared it with 

 the type of T. pallida (Williston). Mr. Edwards writes as follows: 



"T. longifusa differs from T. pallida Will, as you have indicated, 

 and also in the much darker legs and wing veins. It is also rather 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



smaller, but no other differences are obvious. Nevertheless, I 

 should say quite distinct." — F. W. Edwards. 



Trentepohlia Paramongoma > geniculate (Alexander) 



1914. Mongoma geniculata Alexander, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, p. 247. 



One female from Pratd, Brazil, July 4, 1919 (H. S. Parish). The 

 species had been known only from British Guiana. 



Trentepohlia (Paramongoma) pallipes (Alexander) 



1914. Mongoma pallipes Alexander, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, vol. 40, pp. 

 247, 248. 



Teffe, Brazil, December 16, 1919 (H. S. Parish). Like the last, 

 T. pallipes had previously been known only from British Guiana. 



Trentepohlia (Paramongoma) fuscipes sp. n. 



Wings with the costal and apical cells strongly infumed; legs 

 entirely dark brown; abdominal tergites dark brown, the sternites 

 paler. 



Male. — Length 7.8 mm.; wing 7.7 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi yellowish. Antennae with the scapal seg- 

 ments brownish yellow; flagellum dark brown. Front pale brown, 

 whitish pruinose; vertex dark brown. Mesonotal praescutum red- 

 dish brown, with two indistinct narrow brown lines; scutum obscure 

 yellow, the lobes dark brown; scutellum and postnotum dark brown. 

 Pleura brownish yellow. Halteres pale brown, the knobs darker. 

 Legs with the coxae and trochanters yellowish testaceous ; remainder 

 of the legs uniformly dark brown, the tarsi insensibly paler. Wings 

 subhyaline; stigma small, subcircular, dark brown; cells C and Sc 

 brown; cells 2nd Ri, Ri, R 3 and the outer two-thirds of i? 6 strongly 

 infumed; a broad brown seam along Rs; basal half of cell M brown- 

 ish, this color continued distad along vein Cu; cord and outer end 

 of cell 1st Mi narrowly and indistinctly seamed with brown; veins 

 dark brown. Venation: almost exactly as in T. pallipes (Alex- 

 ander). Abdomen with the tergites dark brown; hypopygium and 

 sternites brownish yellow. 



Habitat . — Brazil . 



Holotype, d\ Teffe, December 19, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Trentepohlia fuscipes belongs to the bromeliadicola group of the 

 genus despite its uniformly darkened legs. The wing-pattern and 

 venation agree closely with T. pallipes (Alexander). 



Trentepohlia (Paramongoma) femorata sp. n. 



Wings subhyaline, the sector and vein Cu broadly seamed with 

 brown; wing apex indistinctly darkened; legs dark brown, the 

 femoral tips narrowly but distinctly brownish yellow; abdomen 

 dark brown, segments two to four with the apical half broadly 

 obscure yellowish. 



Female. — Length 12.5 mm.; wing 9 mm. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Rostrum and palpi brown. Antennae dark brown, the basal 

 scapal segment sparsely pruinose. Head pale brownish yellow. 

 Mesonotal praescutum reddish brown, with three rather ill-defined 

 darker brown stripes, confluent behind; scutum and scutellum dark 

 brown, the latter narrowly margined with pale; postnotum dark 

 brown, sparsely gray pruinose. Pleura reddish brown, the mes- 

 episternum darker brown. Halteres brown, the base of the stem 

 more yellowish. Legs with the coxae yellowish testaceous; troch- 

 anters brownish yellow, the posterior pair darker, the margins of 

 the trochanters narrowly chitinized; femora dark brown, only the 

 apices narrowly (0.7 mm.) brownish yellow; remainder of the legs 

 dark brown. Wings subhyaline; stigma subcircular, dark brown; 

 cell C yellowish; Sc yellow basally, thence passing into dark brown; 

 broad brown seams along Rs, Cu, the cord and outer end of cell 

 1st Mi; a very faint brown tinge over the wing-apex, continued 

 basad in cell R*; veins dark brown. Venation: Sci longer than 

 r; Rs slightly angulated before midlength; r connecting with R2+3 

 and Ri, the tip of the latter a little greater than that section of 

 R2+3 beyond r; cell 1st M 2 pentagonal, moderately long; vein M 3 

 beyond cell 1st M 7 much longer than this cell; basal deflection of 

 Cui just before the fork of M; distance on wing -margin between 

 veins Cui and 1st A a little more than one-half m. Abdomen dark 

 brown, the apical half of segments two to four broadly obscure red- 

 dish; ovipositor pale at the base; tergal valves rather short, deep 

 wine-brown in color, slightly upcurved, the tips acute. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, 9 , Teffe, December 24, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Trentepohlia femorata is readily told from all described American 

 species of the genus by the coloration of the legs. 

 Trentepohlia (Paramongoma) flavella sp. n. 



Sex?— Wing 3.4 mm. 



Related to T. (P.) pallida (Williston) but readily distinguished 

 by the following characters: Size very small, by far the smallest 

 American species of the genus as yet made known. Legs pale 

 throughout. Wings with a very strong grayish yellow tinge, the 

 costal region brighter yellow; veins conspicuous yellow; stigma in- 

 distinct, only slightly darker than the surrounding membrane; 

 macrotrichiae on the veins very sparse — a series on costa for its 

 entire length; a few on the end of R h others on M1+2 and others 

 scattered on various veins. Venation: Sc long, ending just before 

 the fork of Rs; Sci rather indistinct, slightly removed from the 

 tip of Sci; r near the tip of R h connecting with R t + t beyond two- 

 thirds its length; cell 1st M 2 large, longer than vein M t beyond it; 

 m about one-half the outer deflection of M 3 ; basal deflection of Cui 

 a short distance before the fork of M; Cu 2 widely separated from 

 1st A at the wing-margin, this distance being approximately as 

 long as Cui alone ; some of the veins are very faint and evidently in 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



process of atrophy, such being all the veins beyond cell 1st M 2 except 

 Ri+s,; most of the veins distad of the cord are very weak and entirely 

 without macrotrichiae. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, Sex 9 , Teffe, December 26, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus TOXORHINA Loew. 

 1851. Toxorhina Loew, Linnaea Entomol., Bd. 5, p. 400. 



Toxorhina is a very characteristic genus in the Amazonian fauna. 

 There has been some attempt made to restrict the name Toxorhina 

 Loew to the species of the genus that we call Elephantomyia Osten 

 Sacken. The basis for this reference consists in a preliminary paper 

 (Bernst. und Bernst.-fauna, 1850) by Loew in which the genus 

 Toxorhina is briefly characterized and keyed and three species be- 

 longing to it are mentioned but not described. There are at least 

 three genera to which Loew's diagnosis would apply and his genus 

 would be unrecognizable were it not for a more detailed account 

 with figures that appeared in 1851, as cited above. In this paper, 

 in addition to the three amber species which are briefly discussed 

 and figured, there appears in this paper a full description, with many 

 figures, of the recent T. fragilis Loew of Porto Rico, which species 

 Coquillett selected as type of Toxorhina in 1910. In the opinion of 

 the writer, the 1850 name Toxorhina has no more status than the 

 famous 1800 names of Meigen, since it must depend entirely on the 

 1851 paper for its accurate diagnosis and recognition. If this latter 

 fact is admitted then there can be no valid objection against select- 

 ing any of the species included in this paper as type as was done 

 by Coquillett. Unless further and more convincing arguments are 

 brought forth, the writer will follow the generic concepts as advo- 

 cated by Osten Sacken and other later students of the Tipulidae. 



It has long been held that Elephantomyia and Toxorhina are 

 closely allied. The former genus possesses small but distinct tibial 

 spurs which appear to be quite lacking in the species of Toxorhina. 

 For the time being, at least, the writer is referring Toxorhina to the 

 Eriopterini. The discovery of the immature stages is very de- 

 sirable. 



Toxorhina brasiliensis (Westwood) 



1835. Limnobiorhynchus brasiliensis Westwood, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, 

 Tome 4, p. 683. 



Itacoatiara, Brazil, October 16-21, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Teffe, Brazil, December 22-27, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Toxorhina centralis (Alexander) 



1913. Toxorrhina centralis Alexander, Psyche, vol. 20, pp. 52, 53. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil (H. S. Parish). 



Teffe, Brazil, January 20, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Toxorhina meridionalis (Alexander) 



1913. Toxorrhina meridionalis Alexander, Psyche, vol. 20, pp. 51, 52. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 26-February 4, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Flores, Brazil, November 14-19, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Toxorhina flavida (Alexander) 



1913. Toxorrhina flavida Alexander, Psyche, vol 20, p. 51. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, February 1-7, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Napo River, Peru, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus CERATOCHEILUS Weschg. 

 1910. Ceralocheilus Wesche, Journ. Linn. Soc, Zool., vol. 30, p. 358. 



Ceratocheilus americanum Alexander. 



1913. Ceratocheilus americanum Alexander, Psyche, vol. 20, pp. 49, 50. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 30, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus SIGMATOMERA Osten Sacken. 

 1869. Sigmatomera Osten Sacken, Mon. Dipt. N. Amer., pt. 4, p. 137. 



Sigmatomera amazonica Westwood. 



1881. Sigmatomera Amazonica Westwood, Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., pt. 3, 

 pp. 366, 367. 



The type of this beautiful crane-fly was taken in Amazonia by 

 Bates. The allotype female was described by the writer (Can. 

 Ent., vol. 52, pp. 142, 143; 1920) from material taken at Flores, 

 Brazil, November 12, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus LECTERIA Osten Sacken. 

 1887. Lecteria Osten Sacken, Berl. Ent. Zeitsch., Bd. 31, pt. 2, p. 206. 



Lecteria armillaris (Fabricius) 



1805. Tipula armillaris Fabricius, Syst. Antl., p. 26. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 29-30, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Manaos, Brazil, October 31-November 4, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Flores, Brazil, November 12-19, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Iquitos, Peru, March 17-May 4 to 21, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 1-22, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus BRACHYPREMNA Osten Sacken. 



1886. Brachypremna Osten Sacken, Berl. Ent. Zeitsch., Bd. 30, p. 161. 



Brachypremna Candida Alexander. 



1912. Brachypremna Candida Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 20, 

 p. 234. 



Manaos, Brazil (Miss Merrill). 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Teffe, Brazil, December 22-26, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Iquitos, Peru, May 25-June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Yurimaguas, Peru, March 31, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Napo River, Peru, June 14-15, 1920 (H. S. Parish); August 3, 

 1920 (Native Collector). 



A few additional details concerning the leg pattern may be given: 

 The black of the tibiae is very extensive on the fore and middle 

 legs, only the narrow bases and slightly broader apices being yellow- 

 ish white. On the posterior tibiae, however, the apical one-half 

 or more is whitish, the dark area being a comparatively narrow 

 ring (5 to 6 mm.) wide, ending before midlength of the sclerite. 



Brachypremna breviventris (Wiedemann) 



1821. Tipula breviventris Wiedemann, Dipt. Exot., Bd. 1, p. 43. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil (H. S. Parish). 



Teffe, Brazil, December 25, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Yurimaguas, Peru, April 5-6, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Brachypremna williamsoni Alexander. 



1912. Brachypremna williamsoni Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc. , 

 vol. 20, pp. 231, 232. 



Prata, Brazil, July 2, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Parintins, Brazil, October 2, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Manaos, Brazil (Miss Merrill) ; paratype. 



Flores, Brazil, November 6-12, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Teffe, Brazil, December 12, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Santo Antonio, Brazil, February 16, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Iquitos, Peru, May 25, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Brachypremna dispellens (Walker) 



1860. Tipula dispellens Walker, Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., n. ser., vol. 5, 

 p. 334. 



Igarape Assu, Brazil, 1912 (H. S. Parish). 

 Prata, Brazil, July 9, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Brachypremna uniformis Alexander. 



1920. Brachypremna uniformis Alexander, Ent. News, vol. 31, p. 75. 



Parintins, Brazil, October 8, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Manaos, Brazil, November 1, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Flores, Brazil, November 15, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Iquitos, Peru, May 17, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Brachypremna basilica sp. n. 



Similar to B. Candida Alexander but very much larger (wing of 

 male over 20 mm.); palpi yellow, the terminal segment abruptly 

 dark brown with the extreme tip orange; tarsi light yellow, the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEPHIA. 93 



tibial tips concolorous, broadest on the posterior legs, wings with a 

 brownish tinge, the stigma with a pale center. 



Male. — Length 17.5-18 mm.; wing 22-24.5 mm. 



Fore leg, femur, 13.6 mm.; tibia, 17.7 mm.; middle leg, femur, 

 16.3 mm.; tibia, 17.8 mm.; hind leg, femur, 16.4 mm., tibia, 18.6 

 mm. Frontal prolongation of the head light yellow above, includ- 

 ing the nasus; dark brown laterally; mouthparts dark brown, palpi 

 with the three basal segments light yellow, the terminal segment 

 abruptly dark brown with the extreme tip dull orange. Antennae 

 short, the scape yellow; flagellar segments bicolorous, the base of 

 each segment dark brown, the apex broadly yellow; terminal flagel- 

 lar segments more unicolorous. Head brown, more yellowish an- 

 teriorly. Mesonotal praescutum brown with four very indistinct 

 darker brown stripes, the intermediate pair very indistinctly sep- 

 arated from one another; an obscure yellow lateral spot on the sides 

 of the sclerite before the suture; scutal lobes dark brown, the median 

 area paler; scutellum and postnotum dark brown. Pleura light 

 brown, spotted with darker brown. Halteres brown, the knobs 

 darker. Legs with the coxae yellowish testaceous, the outer face 

 variegated with darker; trochanters yellow; femora dark brown, 

 the bases paler, the tips rather broadly (1.3 mm.) whitish yellow; 

 tibiae dark brown, the bases whitish yellow, co-extensive with the 

 pale femoral tips, the tips fading into dull yellow, narrowest (3.5 

 mm.) on the fore legs, broadest (9 mm.) on the hind legs; tarsi dull 

 yellow. Wings with a strong brownish tinge, most intense in cells 

 C and Sc; stigma ocelliform, dark brown, the center pale, occupying 

 the end of cell 1st R 1} ' veins conspicuously seamed with brown; 

 veins dark brown. Venation: tip of Rt perpendicular to the re- 

 mainder of the vein; Sd long, extending almost to the tip of R t ; 

 Rs strongly arcuated at origin; deflection of Rt+s distinct; petiole 

 of cell Mi shorter than m; vein 2nd A very short. Abdominal ter- 

 gites brown, the bases of each segment narrowly pale; sternites 

 obscure yellow, each sclerite with a linear black mark occupying 

 about the distal half of each segment. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Yurimaguas, March 31, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, cf . 



Brachypremna basilica is one of the largest and most conspicuous 

 species of the genus yet described. In the pattern of the legs, it 

 closely parallels B. Candida Alexander, but in other respects the 

 two insects have little in common. 



Genus TANYPREMNA Osten Sacken. 

 1886. Tanypremna Osten Sacken, Biol. Cent. Am., Dipt., vol. 1, p. 19; 



Tanypremna longipes (Fabricius) 



1805. Tipula longipes Fabricius, Syst. Antl., p. 25. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Man&os, Brazil (W. M. Mann). 



Yurimaguas, Peru, March 29-April 20, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus MEGISTOCERA Wiedemann. 

 1828. Megistocera Wiedemann, Aussereur. zweifl. Ins., Bd. 1, p. 55. 



Megistocera longipennis (Macquart) 



1838. Tipula longipennis Macquart, Dipt, exot., Tome 1, pt. 1 p. 57. 



Obidos, Brazil, September 23, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Yurimaguas, Peru, April 8, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus OZODICERA Macquart. 

 1834. Ozodicera Macquart, Suites a Buffon, Tome 1, Hist. Nat. Ins., 

 Dipt., p. 92. 



Ozodicera (Dihexaclonus) triguttata sp. n. 



Flagellar segments two to seven pale yellowish brown, each with 

 two short, pale pectinations; mesonotum light brown, the prae- 

 scutum with four slightly darker stripes; femora broadly tipped 

 with brownish black; wings reddish brown with three dark brown 

 spots, situated at the origin of Rs and along the cord; abdomen 

 reddish brown, the lateral margins of the tergites darker; apices 

 of the ninth sterno-pleurite of the male hypopygium produced into 

 slender spatulate blades. 



Male. — Length 26.5 mm. ; wing 22 mm. ; abdomen alone, 18.5 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head brown; palpi dark brown. An- 

 tennae with the scape and pectinated flagellar segments pale yellow- 

 ish brown, the terminal flagellar segments dark brown, flagellar 

 pectinations pale, a very little longer than the segments that bear 

 them. Head reddish brown; vertex between the eyes very narrow, 

 as in the genus. Mesonotum light brown, the praescutum with four 

 very slightly darker, indistinct stripes; median area of the scutum, 

 scutellum and postnotum dark brown. Pleura light brown, sparsely 

 pruinose. Halteres dark brown. Legs with the coxae pale brown- 

 ish yellow; trochanters light yellow; femora brownish yellow, the 

 tips broadly and conspicuously brownish black; tibiae brownish 

 yellow, the tips narrowly dark brown; tarsi dark brown. Wings 

 with a very strong reddish brown tinge, more saturated in the 

 costal and subcostal cells; base of the wing, in the anal cells, pale, 

 three dark brown spots arranged as follows: a small one at the 

 origin of Rs; a large blotch along the cord, extending from the fork 

 of Rs to the fork of M ; the third spot is slightly smaller than the 

 last, at the fusion of Cui and M 3 ; stigma pale brownish yellow; 

 veins brownish yellow. Venation as in the genus ; tip of Ri atrophied ; 

 tip of Ri semiatrophied, pale; fusion of Cu t and M z about equal 

 to r-m. Abdomen dark reddish brown, the lateral margins of the 

 tergites broadly darker brown, narrowly interrupted at the caudal 

 margins of the segments; sternites brownish yellow. Male hypo- 

 pygium with the sterno-pleurite produced caudad into slender spatu- 

 late blades that are subequal in length to the outer pleural append- 

 age. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, c?, Teffe, January 1, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Ozodicera triguttata is distinguished from the other members of 

 the subgenus by its large size and comparatively heavily spotted 

 wings. It is closest to 0. (D.) fumipennis Loew, likewise from 

 Brazil, in which the male measures between 17 and 18 mm. in length, 

 the antennal flagellum is almost black, the wings dark yellowish 

 brown with only a smoky black cloud at r-m and with the body 

 coloration different. 



Ozodicera (Ozodicera) noctivagans Alexander. 



1914. Ozodicera noctivagans Alexander, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc. vol. 40, 

 pp. 253. 254. 



9 , Para, Brazil, June 7, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



c? 9, Flores, Brazil, November 10-19, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



The female sex has not been described and one of the present 

 specimens is made the allotype. 



Allotype, 9 , length 15 mm.; wing 11.8 mm. 



Generally similar to the male, differing as follows: Flagellar 

 pectinations a little shorter than in the male, the longest being 

 about as long as the segments that bear them. Abdominal tergites 

 brownish yellow with a narrow median line and narrow lateral 

 margins dark brown. Ninth tergite dark brown. Sternites uni- 

 formly yellow. Ovipositor with the tergal. valves long and slender; 

 sternal valves shorter, compressed. 



Allotype.— 9 , Flores, Brazil, November 19, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 



Ozodicera (Ozodicera) extensa sp. n. 



Antennal pectinations long, each strongly bent at about one- 

 third its length, at the angle with a short spur that bears a bristle; 

 mesonotal praescutum brown, the stripes very indistinct; wings 

 strongly brownish, the costal and subcostal cells darker; a dark 

 brown cloud at the fork of Rs; male hypopygium with the lobes 

 of the tergite provided with brushes of long yellow hairs; each 

 sterno-pleurite produced caudad into a long, slender, chitinized 

 rod that is dilated into a spinulose apex, at the extreme tip bearing 

 a spine. 



Male. — Length 15.5 mm.; wing 13.6 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head brown; palpi dark brown. An- 

 tennae uni-pectinate , scapal segments obscure yellow, flagellar seg- 

 ments brown, the pectinations dark brown; flagellar pectinations 

 elongate, each strongly bent at about one-third the length, at the 

 angle with a slight spur that is tipped with a small bristle. Head 

 brown. Mesonotal praescutum brown, the stripes very indistinct; 

 scutellum and postnotum gray pruinose. Pleura pale brown, gray 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



pruinose; dorso-pleural region dark brown. Halteres brown. Legs 

 with the coxae and trochanters testaceous; femora obscure yellow, 

 the tips broadly dark brown; tibiae similar, the tips narrowly dark 

 brown; tarsi dark brown. Wings with a strong brownish tinge, 

 the costal and subcostal cells dark brown; stigma oval, dark brown; 

 a dark brown cloud at the fork of Rs and along the cord to the fork 

 of M. Venation: Rs strongly arcuated at origin, a little longer 

 than -R 2 4- 3 ; basal deflection of Mi+ t a little shorter than that of 

 Mi+ t ; m about three times the deflection of ilf 2 . Abdomen dark 

 brown, the basal sternites obscure yellow; hypopygium brownish 

 yellow. Male hypopygium with the ninth tergite having a deep, 

 V-shaped notch, each lobe with a dense brush of long light yellow 

 bristles. Each sterno-pleurite produced caudad into a long, chitin- 

 ized blackened rod, the apex slightly dilated, spinulose, the extreme 

 apex with a large and conspicuous conical spine; pleural appendage 

 a simple curved arm, slightly dilated at the base, gradually nar- 

 rowed to the apex. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, o", Teffe, January 9, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Ozodicera (Ozodicera) attenuate Alexander. 



1920. Ozodicera attenuata Alexander, Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 28, 

 pp. 8, 9. 



Prata, Brazil, July 5, 1919 (H. S. Parish) ; type. 

 Flores, Brazil, November 15, 1919 (H. S. Parish). 

 Ozodicera (Ozodicera) bispinifer sp. n. 



Antennal pectinations short, the longest about equal to the seg- 

 ments that bear them; mesonotum brown, the four narrow stripes 

 more reddish brown; pleura buffy brown, sparsely pruinose; legs 

 brown, the tips of the segments not distinctly darkened; wings 

 brown, the costal and subcostal cells more yellowish; male hypo- 

 pygium with the inner pleural appendage very complex, the lateral 

 portions produced into two conspicuous parallel reddish spines; 

 proximal portion of the appendage a slender blade that juts toward 

 the notch of the ninth tergite. 



Male. — Length 22 mm. ; wing 18 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head brown, darker laterally; nasus 

 stout; palpi dark brown. Antennal scape obscure yellow; flagellum 

 dark brown, the first segment paler basally; flagellar segments two 

 to seven unipectinate, the longest branches about equal to the 

 segments that bear them. Head brown. Mesonotal praescutum 

 brown with four narrow reddish brown stripes, the intermediate 

 pair narrowly separated from one another, each gradually narrowed 

 behind, ending before the suture; remainder of the mesonotum 

 brown, sparsely pruinose. Pleura light buff-brown, sparsely gray 

 pruinose. Halteres dark brown, the base of the stem a little paler. 

 Legs with the coxae concolorous with the thoracic pleura; trochanters 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



obscure yellow ; remainder of the legs brown, the tarsi darker. Wings 

 with a strong brownish tinge, the costal and subcostal cells more 

 yellowish; stigma oval, brown; veins brown. Venation: Rs longer 

 than Ri+z; r-m about one-half the deflection of -R 4 + 8 ; deflection of 

 M 2 a little longer than r-m; basal deflection of M 3 +* about one-half 

 longer than the deflection of M\+%. Abdomen light brown, the 

 basal tergite gray pruinose, eighth segment darker brown; tergites 

 with an indistinct sublateral stripe. Male hypopygium having the 

 ninth tergite with a very large U-shaped median notch, the lateral 

 lobes but feebly provided with bristles. Outer pleural appendage 

 slender at the base, at the apex dilated into a flattened blade; inner 

 pleural appendage complex, the lateral portion produced into two 

 long, parallel, reddish spines, the caudal margin of the posterior 

 spine with a single row of setigerous tubercles, each tubercle bearing 

 a long yellow bristle, the outermost tubercle enlarged into a slender 

 tooth; proximal portion of the appendage produced into a slender, 

 arm-like blade that juts towards the notch of the ninth tergite. 



Habitat. — Brazil. 



Holotype, tf, Teffe, February 3, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus MICROTIPULA Alexander. 

 1912. Microtipula Alexander, Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 5, pp. 360, 361. 



Microtipula amazonica Alexander. 



1912. Microtipula amazonica Alexander, Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 5, 

 pp. 361, 362. 



The types were collected at Igarape 1 Assu, Brazil, January 27-29 

 1912 (H. S. Parish). 



Genus TIPULA Linnaeus. 

 1758. Tipula Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., edit. 10, p. 585. 



Tipula parishi Alexander. 



1912. Tipula parishi Alexander, Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 5, pp. 355, 

 356. 



The type was taken at Igarape Assu, Brazil, January 26, 1912 

 (H. S. Parish). 



Tipula diacanthos sp. n. 



Belongs to the monilifera group; antennal flagellum uniformly 

 brownish black; general coloration shiny yellow, the abdomen with 

 a subterminal black ring; wings yellowish gray, the costal and sub- 

 costal cells brighter; male hypopygium with the ninth tergite tri- 

 dentate; eighth sternite very large, terminating in two conspicuous 

 spines that are directed caudad and dorsad. 



Male. — Length 15.5 mm.; wing 14.2 mm.; antenna 11 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head very stout, comparatively short, 

 yellow, the dorsal surface with erect black hairs that terminate in 

 a tuft at the apex of the stout nasus; palpi elongate, pale brownish 




98 PROCEEDINGS .OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



yellow, the tip of the terminal segment dark brown. Antennae of 

 the male elongate; scape and first flagellar segment obscure yellow; 

 flagellar segments dark brown, the extreme tips of the segments a 

 little paler; basal enlargements of the segments conspicuously globu- 

 lar as in the monilifera group. Head brownish yellow. Mesonotal 

 praescutum shiny testaceous yellow with three indistinct reddish 

 stripes; remainder of the mesonotum testaceous yellow. Pleura 

 shiny yellow. Halteres yellow, the knobs a little darker. Legs 

 with the coxae shiny yellow; trochanters yellow; femora brownish 

 yellow, the extreme tips narrowly and indistinctly darkened; tibiae 

 yellowish brown; tarsi dark brown. Wings with a yellowish gray 

 suffusion; cells C, Sc and the wing-base more saturated yellow; 

 stigma oval, pale brown; veins dark brown. Venation: Sc t extend- 

 ing to just before midlength of Rs; Rs very gently arcuated to nearly 

 straight, about equal to R2+3', cell R 2 comparatively small, R2+3 

 in alignment with R z ; cell 1st Mz elongate-pentagonal; petiole of 

 cell Mi about one-half longer than m; m-cu distinct. Abdomen 

 obscure brownish yellow, the basal tergites and the sternites brighter; 

 eighth sternite and bases of eighth tergite and ninth sternite black; 

 hypopygium reddish yellow. Male hypopygium with the caudal 

 margin of the ninth tergite tridentate, the median lobe more acute 

 than the subequal lateral lobes; apex of the median lobe directed 

 slightly dorsad, of the lateral lobes slightly ventrad. Ninth sterno- 

 pleurite very reduced, not at all conspicuous. Eighth sternite very 

 extensive, jutting caudad of the level of the other elements of the 

 hypopygium, broad, the caudal lateral angles produced caudad into 

 two very conspicuous spines that are directed caudad and dorsad; 

 immediately cephalad of each of these lobes is a smaller conical 

 tooth. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, o", Yurimaguas, March 31, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Tipula armatipennis napoensis subsp. n. 



Allied to T. armatipennis; head pale yellow, the vertex with a 

 narrow brown median line; general coloration fulvous yellow; wings 

 yellowish gray, the costal and subcostal cells more saturated; R 2 

 subperpendicular to the tip of R2+3) valves of the ovipositor sub- 

 fleshy. 



Female. — Length 18 mm.; wing 14.5 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head obscure yellow; palpi elongate, 

 especially the terminal segment, pale yellow. Antennae bicolorous ; 

 scape and first flagellar segment obscure yellow: remaining flagellar 

 segments with the basal swelling black, the remainder of each seg- 

 ment brownish yellow, on the terminal segments darkening to 

 yellowish brown. Head pale yellowish, the vertex with a narrow 

 brown median line. Mesonotum light yellow, without darker mark- 

 ings of any kind. Pleura light yellow. Halteres brownish yellow, 

 the knobs dark brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



yellow; femora brownish yellow, a little darkened apically; tibiae 

 light brown, the tips narrowly darkened; tarsi brown. Wings with 

 a strong yellowish gray tinge, darkest in the cells beyond the cord; 

 cells C, Sc and the wing-base more saturated yellow; stigma sub- 

 circular, brown; veins brown. Venation: Set extending to about 

 opposite two-thirds Rs, the latter short, almost straight, feebly 

 angulated near one-fourth its length; R 2 +z a little shorter than Rs; 

 R 2 short, straight, at a strong angle (65°) to Ri+ 3 ; r practically 

 eliminated by atrophy; R 3 very long, nearly three times R 2 + 3 ; cell 

 1st M2 rather small, pentagonal; petiole of cell Mi about two-fifths 

 cell Mi, nearly three times m; m-cu barely evident. An obliterative 

 streak before the stigma, extending across the base of cell 1st M 2 , 

 from Ri into the base of M t . Abdominal tergites brownish yellow, 

 the dorso-median area broadly, the lateral margins very narrowly, 

 darker ; sternites yellow. Ovipositor moderately elongate, very much 

 smaller than the preceding segments; tergal valves stout, compressed, 

 slightly narrowed before the obtusely rounded tips; sternal valves 

 flattened, the tips obliquely truncated. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, 9 , Napo River, June 15, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Based on the structure of the female, the present insect must 

 be considered as being a race of armatipennis Alexander (Chapada, 

 Brazil) but the discovery of the male might result in giving the 

 form full specific rank. In typical armatipennis the flagellar seg- 

 ments are a little longer, there is no dark line on the vertex, the 

 thoracic coloration is more fulvous and the structure of the ovi- 

 positor is slightly different. 



Tipula bezziana sp. n. 



Frontal prolongation of the head very short, stout, nasus lacking; 

 head yellow, the inner margins of the eyes broadly margined with 

 black; mesonotum obscure brownish yellow, the praescutum with a 

 broad black median stripe; wings hyaline, cells C, Sc and the stigma 

 dark brown; wing-tip darkened; Rs short, strongly arcuated; cell 

 1st M 2 large, subquadrate; fusion of Cui and M 3 extensive; abdomen 

 of female elongate. 



Female. — Length 15-18 mm.; wing 10.2-10.3 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head very short, entirely without a 

 nasus, yellow, more brownish dorsally and here provided with con- 

 spicuous black bristles; palpi brown. Antennae short, scapal seg- 

 ments yellowish testaceous; flagellar segments dark brown with 

 long verticils. Head yellow, the vertex adjoining the inner margins 

 of the eyes broadly black, restricting the ground-color to a com- 

 paratively narrow median stripe on the vertex, broadening on the 

 occiput. Pronotum yellow. Mesonotal praescutum obscure brown- 

 ish yellow with a broad dark brown median stripe, the lateral stripes 

 indistinct; pseudosutural foveae distinct; scutal lobes brownish 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



black; scutellum brown; postnotum brownish yellow, the median 

 area broadly black. Pleura testaceous yellow. Halteres yellowish 

 brown, the knobs dark brown. Legs with the coxae concolorous 

 with the thoracic pleura; trochanters with a faint greenish tinge; 

 femora brown, testaceous basally, passing into dark brown at their 

 tips; remainder of the legs dark brownish black; claws simple. 

 Wings hyaline, the costal cell brown, the subcostal cell dark brown; 

 stigma dark brown; wing-apex broadly darkened; veins beyond the 

 cord broadly seamed with brown; veins brownish black; veins, with 

 the exception of C and R, destitute of macrotrichiae. Venation: 

 Sc ending opposite or slightly beyond the fork of Rs, Sci indistinct, 

 Rs very short, arcuated, less than R2+3, tip of _R 2 preserved but 

 weak; R s more than twice E2+3; r-m short to very short; cell 1st Mz 

 very large, roughly quadrate; petiole of cell Mi shorter than m; 

 fusion of Cui with M 3 extensive, about equal to the petiole of cell 

 Mi; 2nd Anal vein straight, not close to the axillary margin. Ab- 

 domen elongate in the female; basal tergites dark brown, each 

 segment with a narrow yellowish transverse band shortly before 

 midlength of the segment; sternites obscure yellow, terminal seg- 

 ments uniformly dark brownish black. Ovipositor with the valves 

 chitinized ; tergal valves straight, considerably exceeding the sternal 

 valves. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, 9 , Yurimaguas, April 10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Paratopotype, 9 , March 23, 1920. 



Tipula bezziana is a strikingly beautiful fly that is probably not 

 a true Tipula but there is no genus known to the writer that can 

 receive it. The very short frontal prolongation of the head, with- 

 out a nasus, is very like Nephrotoma, whereas the venation is some- 

 what suggestive of Brachypremna. The discovery of the male sex 

 will be of exceptional interest. It is with great pleasure that this 

 interesting species is dedicated to my friend, the distinguished 

 Dipterologist, Dr. Mario Bezzi. 



Tipula effeta sp. 11. 



General coloration grayish brown, the pleura testaceous ; antennae 

 of the male elongated, flagellum black; wings with a brownish tinge, 

 the costal region and the stigma darker; inner pleural appendage 

 of the male hypopygium terminating in two stout spines. 



Male. — Length 12 mm., wing 11.5 mm. 



Female. — Length 12 mm., wing 12.4 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head short, obscure yellow, darker 

 brown dorsally ; palpi dark brown. Antennae of the male elongated, 

 if bent backward extending to beyond midlength of the second 

 abdominal segment; scapal segments testaceous, flagellum black, 

 the segments elongate, Covered with a delicate white pubescence 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



and provided with a few long bristles. Head dark brown, narrowly 

 paler adjoining the inner margin of the eyes. Mesonotum uni- 

 formly grayish brown, the postnotum more plumbeous. Pleura 

 testaceous. Halteres dark brown. Legs with the coxae yellowish 

 testaceous, trochanters obscure yellow; femora brown, paler basally; 

 tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Wings with a strong brownish tinge, 

 especially in the cells beyond the cord; cells C, Sc and the stigma 

 darker brown; veins dark brown: a pale area immediately before 

 the stigma; wings petiolate. Venation: Sc 2 ending opposite two- 

 thirds Rs; Rs long, arcuated near its extreme origin, slightly more 

 than one-half longer than # 2 + 3 ; cell 1st M 2 elongate pentagonal; 

 petiole of cell Mi nearly twice m; vein 2nd A close to the posterior 

 margin, cell 2nd A being very narrow. Abdominal tergites dark 

 brown; sternites and hypopygium obscure brownish yellow. Male 

 hypopygium of simple structure, the ninth tergite ending in a median 

 conical lobe that is heavily blackened; inner pleural appendage 

 terminating in two acute stout spines, in addition to an apical, 

 very slender, curved spine. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, d\ Yurimaguas, April 1, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Allotopotype, 9 , April 23, 1920. 



Paratopotype, 3 9 % March 29-April 13, 1920. 



Tipula effeta, together with the species next described, T. plumbei- 

 thorax, is not a typical member of the genus Tipula but will prob- 

 ably be found to represent a new genus or subgenus when more and 

 better preserved specimens are available. 



Tipula plumbeithorax sp. n. 



General coloration dark plumbeous, the pleura light gray pruinose ; 

 wings faintly grayish, the stigma dark brown; 2nd Anal cell long 

 and narrow. 



Female. — Length 15 mm.; wing 12 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head comparatively short, dark brown 

 above, more yellowish laterally and beneath; nasus short and blunt, 

 bearing several long, black bristles; palpi dark brown. Antennal 

 scape reddish brown, the flagellar segments brownish black, ver- 

 ticillate, one bristle on each segment being longer than the others. 

 Head plumbeous, light gray pruinose. Mesonotum uniformly dark 

 plumbeous, the scutellum and postnotum light gray pruinose. 

 Pleura with a light, blue-gray pruinosity. Halteres dark brown, 

 the base of the stem a little paler. Legs with the fore and middle 

 coxae gray, the posterior coxae reddish testaceous, very sparsely 

 pruinose; trochanters brownish yellow; femora brown, paler basally; 

 remainder of the legs brownish black. Wings with a grayish tinge; 

 stigma conspicuous, dark brown; cell Sc light brown; obliterative 

 areas before the stigma, crossing cell 1st M 2 into the base of cell 

 M A ; veins black, wings petiolate at base. Venation: Sc moder- 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



ately long, Sc 2 extending to just beyond midlength of Rs, Sci lacking, 

 Rs long, arcuated at origin; Rs about one-half longer than R t +i', 

 cell 1st M« elongate, pentagonal; petiole of cell M i short, about one- 

 half m; m-cu short but distinct; 2nd Anal vein straight, cell 2nd A 

 being very long and narrow. Abdominal tergites black, sternites 

 more testaceous brown. Ovipositor with the tergal valves rather 

 stout, compressed, the tips broadly and obtusely rounded; sternal 

 valves very short, flattened, the tips obliquely truncated. 



Habitat. — Peru. 



Holotype, 9 , Iquitos, March 10, 1920 (H. S. Parish). 



Tipula plumbeithorax, like T. ejfeta, is an aberrant member of the 

 genus Tipula but the material is insufficient upon which to base 

 a new group. The general appearance of the flies suggests Tany- 

 premna but the claws are simple. 



Bibliography. 



Alexander, Charles P. 



On the tropical American Rhipidiae (Tipulidae, Dipt.). Bull. Brooklyn Ent. 

 Soc, vol. 8, pp. 6-17; 1912. 



A new tropical Gonomyia (Tipulidae, Dipt.). Ent. News, vol. 23, pp. 418- 

 420; 1912. 



A revision of the genus Brachypremna Osten Sacken (Tipulidae, Diptera). 

 Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 20, pp. 225-236; 1912. 



New Neotropical Tipulinae (Tipulidae, Dipt.). Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 5, 

 pp. 343-362; 1912. 



New Neotropical Antochini (Tipulidae, Diptera). Psyche, vol. 20, pp. 40- 

 54; 1913. 



A synopsis of part of the Neotropical crane-flies of the subfamily Limnobiinae. 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, pp. 481-549; 1913. 



New or little-known Neotropical Hexatomini (Tipulidae, Diptera). Psyche, 

 vol. 21, pp. 33-45; 1914. 



A revision of the American species of Tanypremna Osten Sacken and Megis- 

 tocera Wiedemann (Tipulidae, Diptera). Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 22, 

 pp. 205-218; 1914. 



New or little-known crane-flies from tropical America (Tipulidae, Diptera). 

 Can. Ent., vol. 52, pp. 141-144; 1920. 



Undescribed Tipulidae collected by Mr. H. S. Parish in Brazil (Dipt.). Ent. 

 News, vol. 31, pp. 70-75; 1920. 



Records and descriptions of Neotropical crane-flies (Tipulidae, Diptera) — II. 

 Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 28, pp. 1-13; 1920. 

 Osten Sacken, C. R. R. 



Studies on Tipulidae — Part 1. Review of the published genera of the Tipu- 

 lidae longipalpi. Berl. Entomol. Zeitsch., Bd. 30, pp. 153-188; 1886. 



Studies on Tipulidae — Part 2. Review of the published genera of the Tipu- 

 lidae brevipalpi. Berl. Entomol. Zeitsch., Bd. 31, pp. 163-242; 1887. 

 Walker, Francis 



Insecta Saundersiana, vol. 1. Diptera, pp. 1-474; 1850-56. 

 WestWood, J. O. 



Notae Dipterologicae — No. 5. Descriptions of new species of Exotic Tipu- 

 lidae, with an annotated summary of species belonging to the same family, 

 previously described. Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 1881, part 3, pp. 363-385. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE IV. 



ALEXANDER: NEW OR LITTLE-KNOWN CRANE-FLIES. 





1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Explanation of Plate IV. 



Male hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) acuminata sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) falcifer sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) spicata sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) bispinosa sp. n. 



Pleural appendages of the same; enlarged. 

 Male hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) crepuscula sp. n. 



Penis-guard and gonapophyse of the same. 

 Male hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) ctenophora sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) phoroctenia sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Erioptera (Erioptera) micromyia Alexander. 

 Male hypopygium of Dicranomyia acuminata sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Dicranomyia egae sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Dicranomyia napoensis sp. n. 

 Male hypopygium of Dicranomyia rapax sp. n. 

 V = Ventral pleural appendage; D = Dorsal pleural appendage; PI = Pleurite; 

 Pgd = Penis-guard; Gon = Gonapophyse. 





STUDIES ON SOME FLAGELLATA. 

 BY E. PENARD. 



While studying Infusoria, in the neighborhood of Geneva, 

 Switzerland, during the years 1914 to 1918, I often happened to 

 meet with particularly interesting Flagellata, and sometimes inter- 

 rupted my ordinary work to study some of these organisms. The 

 results of these investigations appear of sufficient interest for pub- 

 lication, and it is a particular pleasure for me to make them known 

 here. The species to be discussed are: Pteridomonas scherffeli 

 Lemm., Dimorpha tetramastix sp. n., Dimorpha monomastix sp. n. 

 Bicoeca exilis sp. n., Histiona campanula sp. n., Salpingoeca poly- 

 gonatum sp. n., Salpingoeca lepidula sp. n., Chrysamoeba radians 

 Klebs, Chrysopyxis bipes Stein, Hyalobryon ramosum Lauterborn, 

 Cryptomonas ovata Ehrenberg, Astasia mobilis (Rehberg) Alexieeff, 

 Euglena pseudomermis sp. n., Trentonia flagellata Stokes. 



Pteridomonas scherffeli Lemm Plate V, figs. 1-3. 



Though the description of the genus Pteridomonas dates back as 

 far as 1890 (Penard, 28), the first concise diagnosis which we possess 

 is due to Lemmermann (24), and I can do no better than to repro- 

 duce it here, at least in its most important points: 



Pterdomonas Petard. Cells naked, mostly stalked; 1 flagellum, 

 and rarely, besides, 2 slowly vibrating accessory flagella. At the 

 base of the flagellum, a crown of fine radiating pseudopodia. One 

 or two contractile vacuoles. Nucles with distrinct caryosom. 

 Multiplication unknown. Food taken by the pseudomopodia, or 

 by means of special food-vacuoles. Movement freely rotating, 

 swinging, or by sudden leaps backward, due to the contraction of 

 the stalk. 



As for Pteridomonas scherffeli, which was found by Scherffel in 

 Hungary, then by Lemmermann at Bremen, Germany, its specific 

 characters are indicated as follows: "Cells generally longer than 

 broad, in optical longitudinal section rounded with 5-6 angles. 

 Stalk long and fine. Nucleus near the base of the flagellum. Be- 

 sides the anterior crown of pseudopodia, some lateral radiating 

 pseudopodia." 



This Pteridomonas scherffeli was found in great quantities in 

 the month of September last (1918), among the decaying leaves 

 that filled the bottom of a pond, at the Ariana Park, near Geneva. 



(105) 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



I was then enabled to study this very interesting organism at some 

 length, and should like to discuss here some of the most important 

 points of its structure. 



Regarding the identity of my specimens: Lemmermann speaks 

 of "cells longer than broad, in optical longitudinal section rounded 

 with 5-6 angles," while in the Ariana specimens the breadth of 

 the body was normally at least equal, and very often superior, to 

 the length; and at the same time the anterior part was broader 

 than the posterior (Plate V, fig. 1); in optical longitudinal section 

 the form, rather than "rounded with 5-6 angles," was that of a 

 top with a truncated point. In short, this Ariana form was but 

 in a very general manner in accordance with Lemmermann's de- 

 scription; but as this very small organism is difficult to study, and 

 is perhaps subject to great variation in its shape, it seems best 

 at present to consider the two forms as representing the same or- 

 ganism. 



Pteridomonas in form, as we just said, is more or less that of a 

 top; the size is about 8-9[l, often rather less, and rarely more. In 

 the anterior part of the body we find, right and left, two small con- 

 tractile vesicles, and also, in the posterior part, two other vaculoes, 

 but of a special nature; the body, in fact, seems to be hollowed out 

 to form two small depressions, one at the left and the other at the 

 right, with a clear space or vacuole in the center; they hardly look 

 like contractile vesicles, especially -since these depressions are some- 

 times wanting, yet sometimes I have seen the vacuoles suddenly 

 collapsing, as contractile vesicles generally do. The flagellum, whose 

 length is equal to three or four times that of the body, is relatively 

 strong, and easily seen. From the middle of the anterior part of 

 the body, which is itself somewhat flattened or even excavated, 

 this flagellum points directly upwards during the first part of its course, 

 then curves right or left, and when vibrating becomes hardly visible. 

 At its point of fixation it is provided with a basal granule, very 

 small and mostly quite invisible, but which I could detect once on 

 a gradually and strongly compressed specimen. 



In Lemmermann's diagnosis we noted the following lines: "One 

 flagellum, and rarely besides, two slowly vibrating accessory fla- 

 gella. At the base of the flagellum, a crown of fine radiating pseu- 

 dopodia." We must treat at some length of these rather important 

 organs. 



The central flagellum is normally surrounded by a crown of very 

 fine threads, perhaps about one dozen in number, quite rigid and 

 motionless, which point straight into the surrounding liquid, at an 

 angle of about 45° from the central flagellum. These threads, 

 which have generally been described as pseudopodia, and indeed 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



certainly appear to be such ; very often seem to start, not from a middle 

 region quite near the fiagellum, but further away from the middle, 

 even from near the extreme border of the body, like an anterior 

 crown above the equatorial girdle of setae which we shall soon 

 speak of. But it only appears so, and in fact one can easily see, 

 on specimens favorably oriented for such observations, that all the 

 threads of the crown have their origin in the immediate vicinity 

 of the central fiagellum. Sometimes, left and right of the fiagellum 

 are seen two much smaller flagella, slowly undulating, and quite 

 independent from the big central one. These two small accessory 

 flagella, whose meaning has not yet been understood, seem to have 

 been a great puzzle for those few observers who noticed them; but 

 more protracted observations, with adequate material, would have 

 allowed of more certain conclusions. In fact, there are not always 

 two accessory flagella, but sometimes one or two, or more; or, on 

 a specimen where none was at first detected, suddenly there may 

 be seen to appear a crown of small flagella, which begin vibrat- 

 ing, and after a very short time slowly retract, getting thicker 

 the more they shorten — as if an axial thread were retracting into 

 the body while the enveloping protoplasm accumulated outside — 

 and finally collapsing each of them into a small roundish pearl. 

 But after a time, each of these little pearls rapidly lengthens again 

 into a long, fine thread, that becomes mixed among the other threads 

 or "pseudopodia" which had remained expanded and rigid. 



These observations, which have been repeated several times, 

 seem to justify the following statement: The threads which compose 

 the anterior crown are not pseudopodia, but flagella, which are 

 capable of changing rapidly in their appearance and function; 

 straight and rigid as a rule, they may for a time appear as flagella, 

 with slow, flexuous undulations. However, these accessory flagella 

 widely differ in their nature from the central one, which is a true 

 fiagellum. They are also completely independent from each other, 

 one of them, for instance, is seen to vibrate while its next 

 neighbor remains stiff; or some developing into a vibrating crown 

 of flagella, while others persist in the shape of a rigid external crown 

 of pseudopodia (Plate V, fig. 2). 



As to the function of these special elements, for which we might 

 use the term "flagellopodia," in their rigid, pseudopodian state, 

 they must be considered as prehensile organs, stopping on their 

 way very small organisms or food particles and bringing them to- 

 wards the body; on two different occasions, for instance, I have seen 

 a small green particle caught by one of the rigid filaments, and the 

 thread curving over it, then slowly retracting and finally depositing 

 it on the surface of the body. This process is, however, not the 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



only one possible, and much more frequently the small food particle, 

 without coming into contact with the extended threads, directly 

 gets to the surface of the body, where a big vacuole is immediately 

 formed around it; but it remains certain that these rigid filaments, 

 twice or three times as long as the body, form together some- 

 thing like a net, and as such are of very evident importance. But 

 besides these functions as prehensile organs, such as are observed 

 in the pseudopodial state, could not we imagine functions of a differ- 

 ent nature, due to the flagelliform state of these particular threads? 

 When describing for the first time, in 1890, the genus Pteridomonas, 

 I felt confident I had seen the small pearls at the base of the central 

 flagellum suddenly unroll and fling the little animal backward; 

 the flagellopodia, in fact, were to be compared to the frond of a 

 fern and not to a compact shapeless body. But Scherffel, in 1901, 

 proposed another explanation; — he looks upon the threads as true 

 pseudopodia, quite incapable of passing into another condition; the 

 two smaller flagella, which are at times seen left and right of the 

 central flagellum, "are in no way two pseudopodia which have 

 taken to an undulating condition, as Penard thinks. Their func- 

 tion is unknown"; and a little further on he adds: "The jumps are 

 due to the energetic and sudden contractions of the fixed stalk." 

 Much later, in 1904, after observing some specimens of Pterido- 

 monas from the Lake of Geneva, I had myself abandoned my former 

 explanation to adopt the Scherffel theory, and today, after a much 

 more thorough examination, I feel confident the rolling and unroll- 

 ing explanation was a mistake; but is the sudden jerk backward 

 due really to a contraction of the pedicle? 



In Pteridomonas, the body is protracted behind into a thread of 

 extraordinary thinness, like the thread of a spider; and this 

 thread or pedicle, four, six, or as much as eight times as long as 

 the body, firmly holds the animalcule to the substratum. In 

 such an attached condition, the little organism is generally seen 

 fishing, with its central flagellum actively swinging, and the threads 

 of the anterior crown rigid, unmoved, and expanded at their full 

 length, but from time to time the animalcule suddenly disappears 

 from sight, and rapidly comes back, a jerk has thrown him to one side 

 but the fixed pedicle prevented any definitive removal. This pos- 

 terior thread is thus very important in enabling, for instance, the 

 animalcule to escape the contact of an enemy and yet remain in 

 the same region; but it is hardly to be expected that the pedicle 

 might do more than attach the body, and be comparable to the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



retractile pedicle of a Vorticella. Its whole appearance is that of 

 a very thin, thread-like secretion, where no structure is to be found; 

 and indeed, facts may be cited which go against the retractile ex- 

 planation: 



Looking at a fixed Pieridomonas for a sufficient time, a moment 

 at last comes when the pedicle suddenly loses its hold, the crown 

 of pseudopodia retracts, and the little animal swims rapidly away, 

 while the detached posterior thread or pedicle trails behind. In 

 such a state of rapid locomotion, with pedicle trailing or sometimes 

 with no pedicle at all (owing to its having been ruptured or having 

 collapsed), when coming into contact with some Infusorian or any 

 other obstacle in its way, the animalcule may suddenly jerk back- 

 ward, just as it did when attached. 



Under these conditions it seems hardly possible that the stalk 

 might be the cause of the sudden jerk; and we must look for another 

 explanation. 



The most evident distinctive character between Pter. scherffeli 

 and Pter. pulex is the possession, by the first of these species, of 

 lateral filiform appendages, which are wanting in the second. Lem- 

 mermann speaks of these appendages as follows: "Besides the 

 anterior crown of pseudopodia, lateral radiating pseudopodia are 

 found." Neither Scherffel nor Lemmermann speak of these "pseu- 

 dopodia" as being regularly distributed, and the first of these ob- 

 servers speaks of both anterior crown and lateral appendages in 

 the following terms: "The fine setose cilia, which radiate mostly 

 from the anterior part of the body, around the flagellum, but some- 

 times also start, in a smaller number, from the sides of the body, are 

 true pseudopodia." Both these authors, in fact, seem to consider 

 these lateral appendages as identical with those of the anterior 

 crown, and at the same time as irregularly located on the sides 

 of the body. But the reality is, that these particular threads, six 

 in number (or perhaps eight ?), are inserted in a single equatorial 

 line, or girdle, which itself is, in most of the individuals, indicated 

 by a slight groove that divides the body into two parts, superior 

 and inferior. These threads are extraordinarily thin, are straight 

 and rigid, and are twice or even three times as long as the body; 

 they never are converted into flagella, and never retract into sep- 

 arate pearls, and are in no way comparable to the constituent 

 parts of the anterior crown — they rather seem to be identical with 

 those setae with which some Infusoria (e. g., Mesodinium pulex) 

 are provided. Now in these Infusoria the setae always work as a 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



jumping organ; and why should their function not be the same in 

 Pteridomonas? There is a fact, indeed, which seems to contradict 

 such a theory, — Pteridomonas pulex, which has no such setae, jumps 

 just as well as PL scherffeli which possesses setae, but . . . it is 

 not quite certain that Pier, pulex is unprovided with setae. None 

 have been seen, it is true, but they are so extremely indistinct, in 

 Pter. scherffeli, that during the first days of my observations I had 

 no idea it was not Pter. pulex I had to do with, and only later on 

 the mistake was found. 1 



It is, then, to that aequatorial girdle of setae that I should be 

 disposed today to attribute the jerks of Pteridomonas, but the ques- 

 tion yet remains in doubt. 



When speaking of the anterior crown, we saw that each of its 

 " flagellopodia" is liable to collapse into a small globular body, 

 and that all of these small pearls constitute then a sessile ring around 

 the central flagellum. Now it is rather interesting to notice that 

 this very sort of ring sometimes is found also at the posterior ex- 

 tremity (Plate V, fig. 1). In that particular locality, the Ariana 

 Park, which furnished practically all my material, this posterior 

 crown existed in one out of five individuals, being sometimes well 

 developed, more often more or less reduced in the number of the 

 "pearls", but none of these pearls ever could be seen to develop 

 into a thread; they were always in the retracted state, and very 

 likely were unable to change in any way. 



As to the meaning of that posterior crown of pearls, at first sight 

 it seems that it would indicate the anterior part of a new individual, 

 to be formed by an act of division which must then prove trans- 

 verse. In spite of the fact that a transverse division would be 

 very exceptional in a Flagellate, I was inclined to consider it as 

 very probable here, till meeting one particular specimen which 

 certainly was dividing (Plate V, fig. 3). It was much broader than 

 long, with two flagella, a nucleus elongated transversally to the ver- 

 tical axis of the body, and two posterior threads, each with some 

 pearls around its base. This specimen showed the beginning of a 

 longitudinal division. We must then conclude that the meaning 

 of the posterior crown is not yet understood. 



1 The first description of Pter. pulex is dated 1890. At that time I had at my 

 disposal only a small, student's microscope, and practically the aequatorial setae 

 must have been invisible. Besides, Pter. pulex hardly ever seems to have been 

 studied afterwards. Scherffel and Lemmermann had Pter. scherffeli under ob- 

 servation, and though some other observers cite Pter. pulex, I do not know of 

 any who studied it. 




1921 J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Such are the observations which I could make on Pteridomonas, 

 a very small and delicate organism, but one whose structure proves 

 very particularly interesting; and in my opinion the principal in- 

 terest attaches to the special threads or "flagellopodia," whose 

 functions are double, now pseudopodia, now flagella. Scherffelie, 

 1911, whilst treating of Chrysopyxis bipes and its pseudopodia, ob- 

 serves that the existence of food-capturing flagella has never been 

 proved in any of the Protozoa; but in Pteridomonas we find some- 

 thing quite exceptional: the food is caught by pseudopodia, the 

 undulating movements are due to flagella, but these very flagella 

 were pseudopodia some minutes before, and next moment will be 

 so again. 



Dimorpha tetramastix sp. n. Plate V, figs. 4-6. 



"Cells with distinct periplast, free-swimming. Pseudopodia nu- 

 merous, with axial threads that radiate from a central granule 

 situated inside the body. Two flagella, originating in the neighbor- 

 hood of the central granule. Nuculus with distinct caryosome. 

 One to several contractile vesicles. . . ." 



Such is the diagnosis given by Lemmermann (in Pascher's ' 'Siiss- 

 wasser-Flora," p. 51) of the genus Dimorpha, which Gruber (14) 

 created in 1881 for a small Protozoan whose characters are at the 

 same time those of a Heliozoon and a Flagellate. 



Dimorpha mutans is the only species that has been described; 

 however, one other has been at least indicated. Blochmann (3), in 

 1894, after treating of Dimorpha mutans, concludes in the following 

 terms: "I myself found, in the summer of 1885 in a pond of the 

 Schwetzinger Garden, another form, of which I unhappily took 

 only a few incomplete sketches. It differed from D. mutans in 

 the possession of four flagella, and also in the fact that it always 

 swam about with fully expanded pseudopodia." 



In the month of July last, and later in August and September, I 

 found in the same pond of the Ariana Park a species of Dimorpha 

 provided with four flagella. Is it the same as that mentioned by 

 Blochmann? Possibly so, but, as we shall see later, it is not cer- 

 tain. Is it even a Dimorpha? According to the first diagnosis of 

 the genus, which mentions two flagella, it is not; but, like Bloch- 

 mann, I should rather insist on the fact of the resemblance with 

 an Heliozoon than on the possession of one, two or more flagella. 



Dimorpha is indeed now a Heliozoon, and now a Flagellate. Let 

 us first consider our Dim. tetramastix in the Heliozoon, that is, in 

 the resting state (Plate V, fig. 4) : 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



The spherical body, 30 to 33pi in diameter (much larger than 

 Dim. mutans) is naked, but not smooth, owing to the presence of 

 numerous granules of a relatively large size, some of which project 

 a little outside the surface. Two layers, in fact, may be distin- 

 guished in the plasma, the ectoplasm with the above-mentioned 

 granular bodies, and the clearer endoplasm; but the difference be- 

 tween the two layers is here much less distinct than in typical Heli- 

 ozoa, those for instance which constitute the group of the Chalaro- 

 thoraca. Around the body, and radiating in every direction, but 

 less numerous anteriorly, are the pseudopodia, straight and very 

 fine, whose length attains to 1 3^ to 2 times the diameter of the body. 

 Just as in Heliozoa, they are covered with small granulations, but 

 are even smaller here; and besides, they have sometimes a peculiar 

 appearance, which does not seem to have been observed in Heliozoa 

 as a rule : as long as they have not attained to their entire develop- 

 ment, their tip is blunt, truncated at a right angle to the longitudinal 

 axis; but when fully extended, they are pointed; one might suppose 

 that in the first case the layer of viscous plasma which covers the 

 axial thread did not extend further than the axial thread itself, 

 and in the second case it had gone farther, lengthening to a point. 

 Axial filaments exist here indeed, as in typical Heliozoa, and in 

 favorable conditions they may be seen to penetrate the plasma and 

 converge towards a central granule, which itself is easily distin- 

 guishable, and with carmine stains quickly. But this "central 

 granule" is in fact never quite central but lies at a greater or less 

 distance from the center toward the anterior extremity. 



This central granule is itself surrounded by the special apparatus 

 which Gruber (14), Blochmann (3), Schouteden (31) have already 

 described in Dimorpha mutans, but which is here of a rather differ- 

 ent nature, consisting of very small, yellow, spherical grains, which 

 are set around the central granule like numerous radiating chap- 

 lets, owing, very likely, to their being attached to the axial fila- 

 ments which converge towards the centre. All together, they build 

 up a kind of spherical cage, quite characteristic of Dimorpha 

 tetramastix and allowing one easily to distinguish this species from 

 any Heliozoon in the vicinity. 



Food is caught by the pseudopodia, and in a very characteristic 

 manner. On four or five different occasions I observed the cap- 

 ture, and always it was the same small Infusorian, Balanitozoon 

 agile, which suddenly came into contact with one or several of the 

 pseudopodia; these then tightened around their captive, and at 

 the same time a very thin film or velum came creeping over the 

 pseudopodia, lengthened into a cup, and finally closed behind the 

 Infusorian. This latter, which had been suddenly killed as by some 

 special poison, became more and more elongated, then was cut into 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



two parts, the first of which entered the body of the Dimorpha; 

 the second fragment then divided again, and finally each of the 

 separated portions got into the Dimorpha and quickly rounded 

 itself into a small pellet. Our Dimorpha seemed in fact to feed 

 exclusively on this little Infusorian, and proved excessively glutton- 

 ous. Three minutes are sufficient for the conversion of a living 

 Balanitozoon into a number of pellets inside the Dimorpha, and this 

 latter, which measured at first say about 30fji in diameter, increases 

 to 40[jl in diameter after the capture. 



We must now consider the flagella somewhat at length. In a 

 Dimorpha favorably oriented for good observation, one can dis- 

 tinguish in the body an anterior part, slightly flattened, and even 

 sometimes depressed to form a shallow median cup, and from that 

 cup arise four very fine threads, hardly visible, about twice the 

 length of the body; they appear and suddenly disappear, and when 

 lost are very difficult to trace again, owing to their extraordinary 

 tenuity. Two of them are often seen to cross each other at a short 

 distance from their base, which fact is due to their being in pairs, 

 one of the pairs originating left and the other right of a central 

 point of fixation (Plate V, fig. 4) . 



Gruber could not ascertain the presence of a nucleus, at least 

 in the living animalcule, but says he easily demonstrated it with 

 reagents. Blochmann, however, and afterwards Schouteden (31), 

 each gave a rather complete description of what they considers a 

 the nuclear apparatus, and it is interesting to quote what the latter, 

 of these observers writes upon the subject: "The nucleus is already 

 visible in the living animal, more or less distinctly according to 

 the individuals. But it is easy to make it appear by killing the 

 organism with a solution of picric acid, which colors the nucleus 

 yellow. One sees then that chormatin is united in a thick mass 

 which in optical section appears like a crescent with more or less 

 rounded or obtuse points; really this mass constitutes something 

 like a hemisphere (or segmant of a sphere, smaller or sometimes 

 larger,) hollow but with a thick wall. 



"Inside that peculiar mass, in the cavity which it surrounds, 

 one sees the axial threads of the pseudopodia, which pass through 

 the body, to converge toward the same point, namely to a shining, 

 very distinct granule, which is indeed already visible, with some 

 attention, in the living animal. In this same place, besides, is the 

 insertion of the flagella, which diverge from the common point 

 inside the plasma and come out of the body in two distinctly sepa- 

 rated regions .... Blochmann was rather puzzled by the fact that the 

 axial threads of the pseudopodia thus converge through the nucleus 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



toward a common point. He does not think probable that there 

 could be there a continuous axis which would pierce through the 

 nuclear substance. And yet, according to my observations, the 

 complicated apparatus of Dimorpha must indeed be thus explained. 

 The axial threads which are seen converging run completely through 

 the chromatic mass, pierce it in fact, and nevertheless they are 

 absolutely continuous and homogeneous." 



These observations are interesting, in so far as they show the 

 flagella to be inserted quite near the central granule; but both 

 Blochmann and Schouteden are certainly wrong when they consider 

 as a nucleus that particular apparatus which we have seen in Di- 

 morpha tetramastix consists in radiating lines of pearls. In reality, 

 the true nucleus, generally concealed by the accumulation of gran- 

 ules and food -particles, easily comes to view by means of a slight 

 compression of the animal. It quite conforms in character to an 

 ordinary Heliozoan nucleus, being rather large, homogeneous, vari- 

 able in its shape, and always somewhat excentric in position. 2 There 

 are several contractile vesicles, variable in number, but so obscured 

 by the mass of granules and food-particles that fill the external 

 layers of the body, that one hardly sees them. 



Such is the Heliozoan form of Dimorpha tetramastix; but if we 

 keep the animalcule under observation for a while, after five, ten, 

 twenty minutes or more, we can see its transformation into the 

 flagellate state. Suddenly, and without any apparent motive, the 

 pseudopodia are seen to retract, at the same time as the body length- 

 ens, and the central granule with the surrounding chaplets of pearls 

 moves forward; and after a single second of time, or at most two, 

 the Heliozoan has disappeared, and instead we have a true Fla- 

 gellate (Plate V, fig. 5), more or less lengthene, with an anterior 

 depression from which arise the two pairs of flagella. Something, 

 however, is frequently left of the pseudopodia, in the form of lateral 

 or, more often, posterior appendages, more or less covered with 

 granules (Plate V, fig. 6); and some of the axial threads are still 

 visible, trailing inside the body, behind the central granule 

 which is now quite near the anterior extremity. 



It is possible only under particularly favorable conditions to 

 get a clear view of the phenomenon of the mechanism of that sud- 

 den transformation, but I was able to observe it several times and 



2 Blochmann, in his figure of D. mutans in the Heliozoan state, has in fact 

 represented the nucleus, but as a "particle of food." 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



with sufficient clearness to be able to explain the facts. The pseu- 

 dopodia, at the same time that they retract and shorten, move 

 backward while the central granule is brought forward; this dis- 

 placement of the pseudopodia is, in fact, to be compared to the 

 shutting of an umbrella, whose ribs are brought down and collapse 

 together. As for the cause of the shutting, it must very likely 

 be sought in internal movements inside the plasma, which result 

 in an accumulation of clear pure ectoplasm at the anterior extremity, 

 if we can imagine a current coming from behind and pushing the 

 central granule forward along the longitudinal axis of the body, 

 and at the same time lateral backward currents pushing the axial 

 rods downward, we can get an idea of the transformation. 



As it is, the Flagellate, which now measures about 37[x in length, 

 i. e., 7[i more than in the Heliozoan shape, immediately takes to 

 swimming, rapidly drawn forward by its flagella. As already noted, 

 some of the pseudopodia, or rather some of the axial threads with 

 their covering of granulations, are very often seen trailing laterally 

 or behind, but I never could see, as Blochmann said of his unidenti- 

 fied Dimorpha, the animalcule swimming with completely and nor- 

 mally expanded pseudopodia. 



Swimming never lasts very long; the most trifling cause is suffi- 

 cient to instigate reversion to the Heliozoan type; the animalcule 

 is seen to stop, and suddenly the pseudopodia make their appear- 

 ance, lengthening at the same time as they are brought forward, 

 while the central granule moves downward toward the center of 

 the body The same kind of phenomenon has taken place, which 

 we compared to the shutting of an umbrella, but it is now the open- 

 ing, and it has been even more rapid. 3 This transformation from 

 the Flagellate state to the Heliozoan type is brought about by any- 

 thing that might be supposed to indicate trouble or danger — a 

 small Infusorian in the vicinity, a current of water, etc. — while 

 the inverse, the transformation from the Heliozoan into a Flagel- 

 late, is much more difficult to produce; a strong light, however, 

 which provokes the displacement of the animalcule toward a cooler 

 region, is often successful. Very probably, the Heliozoan form is 

 the form of defense, the pseudopodia firmly affixing the body to 

 resist currents, and at the same time it is the fishing-form, allowing 

 small organisms to be caught by the pseudopodia. 



3 This reversion is still more shortened by the action of a chemical reagent; 

 in one particular case, for instance, I have seen the transformation entirely 

 effected in the half of a second, under the influence of a very weak current of 

 glycerin and carmine. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



Must we consider Dimorpha as a Heliozoon or as a Flagellate? 

 As a Flagellate, of course, since it is an understood fact that all 

 organisms are to be considered as such, which possess flagella in 

 the adult state; but the affinities with Heliozoa are so great that, 

 in fact, we might look upon this organism as a Heliozoon also. In 

 some of the representatives of this latter group, for instance, Clath- 

 rulina, an embryonic stage is known, where the little being is in 

 possession of flagella ; and one might be entitled to ask if Dimorpha 

 could not be a member of the same group, in which the flagella 

 persist up to the adult state? 



In this connection I should like to relate a rather curious coin- 

 cidence: in the same locality there was living, in still much greater 

 abundance, a genuine Heliozoon, of a yet undetermined type, and 

 whose likeness to Dimorpha tetramastix was such that only the 

 possession of the characteristic pearl apparatus and the non- 

 existence of a flagellated state allowed an easy distinction. At the 

 same time, there were occasions when I never could detect any 

 trace of flagella in otherwise typical Dimorphas, and sometimes 

 also the pearl apparatus was hardly to be seen. Dimorpha might 

 be supposed to lose finally its flagella, as well as the pearl apparatus 

 which in some unknown way might be in relation with them? But, 

 leaving that supposition aside, what more beautiful example of 

 mimicry could we imagine? 



Dimorpha monomastix sp. n. Plate V, flgs. 7. 8. 



The preceding species was characterized by the presence of four 

 flagella; now we find only one. Dimorpha monomastix was found 

 in the same locality, and in a much greater abundance, but its small 

 size makes it rather more difficult to study. 



The little organism is about lOtx in diameter, transparent and 

 colorless; in a superficial region are seen dispersed all sorts of gran- 

 ules and food-particles, surrounding an indistinctly delimited clearer 

 central region or endoplasm, which contains the nucleus. This 

 latter is spherical, with a distinct nuclear membrane and a large 

 central caryosome. Very likely this endoplasmic region also con- 

 tains a central granule, which, however, I did not see. There are 

 several contractile vesicles, all very small, except one that might 

 be considered as the principal one, the others being accessory. All 

 around the body are the pseudopodia, of the typical Heliozoan 

 type, but relatively short, measuring about 1 % times the diameter 

 of the body. The flagellum, always single, is of a moderate length 

 also, about the same as that of the pseudopodia, but strong and 

 thick, much thicker, in fact, than in Dimorpha tetramastix. How- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



ever, it is extremely transparent, and there is some difficulty in 

 distinguishing it; a moderate enlargement, indeed, which allows of 

 a very small diaphragm, is better for its detection than very strong 

 magnificat ion. 



During the Heliozoan state of rest, the flagellum remains quiet, 

 and nearly always with a peculiar shape, somewhat like a figure 8 

 (Plate V, fig. 7); from time to time, however, it is seen slowly to 

 unroll, and to perform one or two slight movements, soon coming 

 at rest again. 



This Heliozoan type is the less frequent form, and the animal- 

 cule never keeps it for a very long time. After a few minutes of 

 observation, the swinging of the flagellum grows quicker and more 

 frequent, and suddenly the whole body seems to be subjected to a 

 disturbance, a rupture of its internal equilibrium. It collapses, in 

 fact, and one might take it to be disorganized and dead; but after 

 hardly one or two seconds have passed, the whole mass, as by en- 

 chantment, lengthens into a fusiform body, having anteriorly a 

 quickly-moving flagellum. 



The little flagellated being (Plate V, fig. 8), which from 10[jl in 

 the Heliozoan state has now increased to 18[x in length, and even 

 sometimes more, has the appearance of a fish, broader at the an- 

 terior part, and drawn posteriorly into an often very thin and long 

 extremity, which seems to result from the fact that the axial threads 

 have joined together and trail behind. The nucleus, very distinct, 

 has come forward, very near the anterior extremity, and is seen 

 surrounded by very small, hyaline granulations. The flagellum 

 comes straight from a slight excavation in the middle of the anterior, 

 rounded extremity. Several small contractile vesicles are visible, 

 one of them larger, near the posterior end of the body. 



The animalcule goes straight forward in a rapid course and swims 

 for a very long time, for hours probably; then suddenly it stops, 

 the flagellum becomes quiet and takes the characteristic figure 8 

 shape; again a commotion, which shakes the whole body, and rays 

 are seen to protrude from every part of the surface. In two sec- 

 onds, the Flagellate has turned into a Heliozoon. 



The transformation is effected here in the same way as we saw 

 it in Dimorpha tetramastix, but is much less evident to the eye. 



Bicoeca exilis sp. n. Plate V, flgs, 9-13. 



This elegant little Flagellate was found, in February, 1918, rather 

 abundant in one of the aquaria of the Zoological Laboratory of 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



the University. Most generally it was attached to the threads of 

 a small Nostoc, either solitary or with one or two companions, but 

 never in big colonies. 



The little capsule (Plate V, fig. 9), very thin and colorless, is 8[x 

 in length; ovoid or somewhat fusiform in shape, pointed behind and 

 opened anteriorly in a large aperture, at right angle to the longi- 

 tudinal axis. This opening, however, is rather variable in breadth, 

 according not only to the individuals, but also to the orientation 

 of the animal; the capsule, in fact, is a little compressed, more so 

 at the opening than anywhere else, and at the same time proves 

 somewhat elastic; when the animalcule protrudes for half its length 

 out of the shell, it presses against the sides and makes the opening 

 rounder, and when suddenly retracting the edges of the aperture 

 contract. The capsule is affixed to the substratum by means of 

 a very thin pedicle, a simple colorless filament, whose length is 

 exceedingly variable, and is commonly twice or three times as great 

 as that of the capsule, sometimes even more. Frequently it is 

 seen to terminate at the point of fixation in a small bluish knob 

 or cushion, and from the fact that the volume of the knob is in 

 inverse proportion to the length of the pedicle, one can infer that 

 it furnishes the material for the lengthening of this thread. This 

 growth of the pedicle, however, must be very quick, and reaches its limit 

 a very few moments after the fixation of the animalcule; such is, at 

 any rate, the inference that might be drawn from the fact that speci- 

 mens with very short stalks (Plate V, figs. 9, 12), kept under ob- 

 servation for ten, twelve and twenty-four hours, never showed 

 during that time any lengthening of their stems. Very likely the 

 length of the pedicle is in some relation with the conditions of the 

 medium; for instance, in some material which had been kept a long 

 time since it was collected, I once found all the individuals short- 

 stalked (Plate V, fig. 12). The animalcule hardly fills half of the 

 capsule. In its perfectly expanded state, it is pear-shaped. At the 

 anterior extremity and on one side is seen projecting a protoplasmic 

 appendage which looks at first sight like a very short pseudopodium ; 

 but in reality the ectoplasmic layer developed here in a collar-like 

 expansion, hardly conspicuous on one side but very extended on 

 the other, and whose function is to hold fast the small particles of 

 food that the flagellum has thrown down. The flagellum, which 

 starts from the anterior depression, is strong and very distinct, 

 and of very remarkable length, attaining five or even six times the 

 length of the body. When the animalcule is quietly fishing, with 

 its body half protruded from the shell (Plate V, fig. 9) , the flagellum 

 is seen pointing directly upwards, and hardly seems to move, but 

 sometimes is only distinguishable up to the half of its length, the 

 tip only vibrating. The animalcule does not, as a rule, remain 

 very long in the extended state ; it suddenly retracts inside the shell 

 and becomes ovoid in shape, but for a very short time only, soon ex- 

 panding again. The behavior of the flagellum is then very inter- 

 esting to follow: when the animalcule retracts, the flagellum coils 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 119 



in a perfectly regular manner, so as to simulate a coil of rope with 

 four or five turns, which stands upright over the retracted body (Plate 

 V, fig. 1 1) ; then as soon as the animalcule begins expanding (Plate V, 

 fig. 12), the coils rapidly unroll and are flung far out like a lasso 

 thrown by an invisible arm. The retraction of the body down to 

 the bottom of the cell is effected by means of a thread, which is 

 seen affixed to the very tip of the inside wall, and looks — but only 

 looks — like a continuation of the pedicle inside the envelope; from 

 this basal point the thread passes up along the body and comes to 

 an upper fixation quite near the base of the anterior flagellum ; in 

 fact, this posterior thread is nothing but a flagellum, which has 

 temporarily lost its normal functions to acquire those of a retractile 

 organ. The nucleus is spherical, and situated posteriorly, near 

 one side of the body; it is rather pale, not very distinct, and shows 

 a large central caryosome. The contractile vesicle is at the pos- 

 terior extremity, behind the nucleus; sometimes a second one is 

 to be seen, but though being able to empty and fill again from time 

 to time like an ordinary contractile vesicle, it can hardly be con- 

 sidered as such, but is rather an accessory vacuole, whose function 

 is to refill the true vesicle when empty. 



I was not able to study the division inside the envelope, but on 

 the 16th and 17th of February, I found, among a great number of 

 empty cases, a good many small Flagellata which were rapidly 

 swimming about, and whose appearance was that of individuals 

 belonging to this species after leaving their shell; all characteristics 

 were the same, except for the form of the body, that of a true, naked 

 Flagellate, with two flagella, one of which was trailing behind (Plate 

 V, fig. 13) ; it was certainly the retractile thread, which in this new 

 flagellated state had recovered its true nature. It would have 

 been interesting to notice the fixation of these small Flagellates 

 and the construction of the shell, but my attempts in that direc- 

 tion were not successful. 



The rather numerous species which make up the genus Bicoeca 

 are all of very small size, and the distinctive characters are some- 

 times very hard to recognize; the form of the capsule, however, is 

 very constant, and the length of the flagellum, and the position 

 and number of the contractile vesicles, also furnish important facts. 

 The taxonomy of the genus is however, anything but clear. Bicoeca 

 and the construction of the shell, but my attempts in that direc- 

 lacustris J. Clark, for instance, as indicated by Lemmermann (27), 

 is considerably different from the same species as figured and 

 described by S. Kent (this latter observer speaks also of a second 

 very small anterior flagellum, which character would refer to 

 Stokesiella) , and at the same time both forms are not very far from 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



our Bicoeca exilis; but the special shape of the capsule, as also the 

 very exceptional length of the flagellum, seem to point to a special 

 organism, which has not yet been described. 



Histiona campanula sp. u. Plate VI, flgs. 14-19. 



During the autumn of 1917,, I found in a pond at Pinchat, a small 

 Flagellate which seems to belong to Histiona, a genus itself very 

 little known. It was most generally found fixed on the threads of 

 a certain Zygnema, very often forming long colonies of indi- 

 viduals, standing next to each other along the mucilaginous sheath 

 of the alga. 



The protoplasmic body, very clear and delicate, occupies less 

 than half of the capsule (Plate VI, fig. 14), which latter is itself 

 so thin and transparent that its structure is not determined without 

 some difficulty. It may be compared to an inverted bell, broadly 

 open upwards, and whose closed end would be stretched on one 

 side, so as to make a horn-like prolongation; and owing to this 

 special form the little case, which rests with its posterior point just 

 on the surface of the mucilaginous sheath, appears bent down like a 

 small flower (Campanula) on its stalk, the concave side of the cap- 

 sule being towards the Zygnema (Plate VI, fig. 14). The little 

 capsule is at the same time laterally compressed, and seen from 

 behind looks somewhat like a sugar-loaf (Plate VI, fig. 15). The 

 capsule is provided with a pedicle, thin and colorless, which goes 

 right through the jelly and joins the surface of the cellulose mem- 

 brane of the Zygnema, where it is most generally seen to attach by 

 means of a shining little cushion. The pedicle, we must observe, 

 is not a true pedicle in fact, but is rather a protoplasmic thread 

 more solidly affixing 'the cell to the substratum; the jelly alone 

 would not allow of a sufficient hold; and, by the way, we must add 

 that the mucilaginous layer being generally perfectly invisible, the 

 capsule seems to be provided with a stalk, as for the length of this 

 stalk, it is of course equal to the thickness of the mucilaginous layer, 

 about 13[x or sometimes a little more or less. The protoplasmic 

 body, which appears as if suspended inside the capsule without 

 anything to keep it in place, is also very individual in its appear- 

 ance: rounded behind, cup-shaped anteriorly, it is drawn up on 

 one of its borders (always the same, that which is in contact with 

 the convex face of the shell) into a long trunk-like appendage, which 

 passes beyond the capsule and protrudes into the surrounding 

 liquid. From the tip of that peculiar appendage stretch right and 

 left two thin and broad protoplasmic curtains, which, passing over 

 the intervening space join at last the opposite border of the cell. 

 In fact, these curtains, or veils, may be considered as representing 

 the extreme borders of the cup-shaped body, which have grown 

 very thin and transparent. One of these veils, moreover, is much 

 more developed than the other, and about the middle of its course 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



is drawn up in an angular lobe, to be affixed there to the inside of 

 the wall of the capsule, and this in a very curious way, by means of 

 a "nail," a very small bluish spot, which is never wanting. Very 

 likely this very fixation of one of these curtains to the border of 

 the cell is a result of the necessity for the cup (or anterior part of 

 the body) to remain open, for the veil, if it passed straight over to 

 join the border at the opposite side, would prevent small food- 

 particles falling into the cup. 4 The flagella are perhaps more curi- 

 ous than any other element in this already somewhat para- 

 doxal being. There are two : the first one, which we might call the 

 principal flagellum, starts (or rather seems to start?) from 

 one of the borders of the cup, which we may consider as the right 

 one, and very soon bends to the left, describing thus the figure of 

 an arc, and finally terminates freely somewhat to the left of that 

 appendage which we called the trunk. This flagellum nearly al- 

 ways proves perfectly quiet, like a bow stretched over the cell 

 as if for aprotection against the intrusion of any enemy. It is a 

 genuine flagellum, however, and from time to time begins vibrating, 

 but becomes quiet again after a moment. The second flagellum 

 is perhaps even more curious: upon looking attentively at the left 

 border of the cup, and more especially at the tip of the " trunk," we find 

 there (Plate VI, fig. 16) two very small bluish granules, one behind 

 the other, and from the upper granule is seen to start a rigid, straight 

 thread, whose length nearly equals that of the body, the structure 

 of the thread, which diminishes in breadth from the base to the 

 summit, seems to be that of an axial filament covered with a thin 

 layer of hyaline plasma. This thread immediately turns some- 

 what to the left, and there remains quiet, like a tactile organ or 

 seta, from time to time, however, it is seen to move right or left, 

 like the hand of a watch, or, very rarely, to swing in a few longi- 

 tudinal undulations, but only to come quickly to rest again. Indeed 

 it hardly looks, like a flagellum, but is such in fact, only it 

 temporarily departs from its normal functions to acquire a new 

 importance. If we look very attentively at the anterior small 

 corpuscle of which we were just speaking, and not above but be- 

 hind it, we can just distinguish a very fine median line or thread, 

 which passes the posterior granule, then continues its way down 

 towards the bottom of the cup-shaped body. 



In short, Histiona campanula is in possession of two flagella, 

 but both seem to have been considerably modified in either struc- 

 ture or function. 5 



4 1 never could see the second of these two "curtains" affixed to the 

 capsule, and this second curtain is in fact so much smaller than the first that it 

 might be considered simply the normal border of the cup. 



6 These statements about the flagella are the result of a good many observa- 

 tions, but the animalcule is exceedingly small and delicate, and more than one 

 doubt is left in my mind about some points of its structure. I have seen, for 

 instance, on two different occasions a very short flagellum beating at the floor 

 of the cup; was it a normal structure, or perhaps the basal part of the right 

 flagellum, torn off from the affixing blue grannule ? 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



It is not likely that these modified elements should be considered 

 as the principal agents in the capture of food. Rather must we 

 think that the large surface displayed by the cup with its velum- 

 like borders has the function of a net; I have very often observed 

 small nutritive particles to be thrown, or rather to get caught on 

 the surface of the expanded cup; and suddenly, when it hardly 

 touches the net, a vacuole is formed, inside which the microbe 

 (most frequently microbes were the normal food) violently struggles 

 for a time, then suddenly collapses, as if killed by some poisonous 

 substance. The food-vacuole then glides along the velum and 

 finally disappears inside the body. 



The nucleus, spherical and with a big central caryosome, is very 

 distinctly seen, in the hind-part of the body. There is only one 

 contractile vesicle, not far from the nucleus; some other vacuoles, 

 however, are at times visible, either containing food-particles or 

 not. 



Phenomena were not observed concerning the division of the 

 body, but I have frequently met with individuals in the naked 

 state, which either resulted from an act of division, or, in a ma- 

 jority of the cases at least, had left their envelope to take to a swim- 

 ming existence. Their appearance is quite characteristic (Plate VI, 

 figs. 17, 18), nearly that of a mandolin, whose handle would be 

 represented by that peculiar "trunk" we have spoken of; but then, 

 from this very extremity where the small blue granule is still to 

 be seen, starts now, not a rigid thread, but a true flagellum, which, 

 beating normally, draws the animalcule forward in a rapid course; 

 the functions, indeed, of the thread have changed, and have be- 

 come those of a normal flagellum. 



As for the other flagellum, which we looked on formerly as the 

 principal one, it is now seen to start from the posterior, slightly 

 pointed extremity of the body, and immediately curves upward, 

 describing an arc whose tip becomes lost behind the body, near the 

 base of the trunk; this bow-like curvature seems at first sight to 

 delineate the very contour of the body (Plate VI, fig. 17), which 

 fact gives the little being a very peculiar appearance. 



After swimming for a time, the little Flagellate comes to rest; 

 it sets itself down on the surface of a Zygnema-th.rea,d, and firmly im- 

 plants itself there by its posterior pointed extremity; and hardly 

 is the contact effected when a small root begins piercing the jelly 

 (Plate VI, fig. 19), growing longer and longer, till after a few min- 

 utes it reaches the solid wall. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



I could not ascertain how the animalcule constructs the new 

 envelope. It seems likely that the naked individual, when already- 

 fixed, can remain a very long time unprovided with any covering; 

 I found once a colony where all the animalcules, about six in number, 

 were naked, and three days afterwards, though living and ap- 

 parently in good health, only one of them was provided with a 

 capsule. It is interesting to note that the animalcule, as seen en- 

 closed in the shell, does not occupy the same position as he did 

 when free; the posterior point, from which arises the arcuated fla- 

 gellum, must have become displaced upwards and to the right, 

 at the same time that the body became free from the pedicle and 

 climbed up towards the opening of the shell. 



Salpingoeca poly gona turn sp. n. Plate VI, flgs. 20-28. 



This small organism was found in the same locality as the last 

 one, at Pinchat, on the long filaments of Zygnema pectinatum, and 

 as a rule the threads were either abundantly provided with the 

 little Flagellate, or had none at all. 



The capsule (Plate VI, fig. 20-28) is about 17[x in length with a 

 breadth of 43^ to 5^ only; it is nearly cylindrical for most of its length, 

 but is somewhat broadened at the aperture, and is rather abruptly 

 narrower behind, 6 terminating in a point which itself rests on a 

 thin, very short stalk; but note that, as in Histiona campanula, 

 the stalk is not a true pedicle, rather a root, which pierces the muci- 

 laginous sheath of the Zygnema and becomes attached to the cellu- 

 lose wall below. It may be observed at the same time that His- 

 tiona and Salpingoeca chose two different Zygnamas as a sub- 

 stratum, and that in the former of those animalcules the jelly coat- 

 ing was thicker than in the second; hence the longer stalk in His- 

 tiona. The protoplasmic body (Plate VI, fig. 20), cylindrical in 

 shape, and about IO^jl in length, looks as if hanging down inside 

 the cell, its upper end reaching as far as the aperture, while the 

 lower, rounded end is at some distance from the bottom. It re- 

 mains entirely quiescent, as a rule, but from time to time the little 

 organism shakes weakly from head to foot, or suddenly retracts 

 to the very bottom of the shell. The nucleus, spherical with a big 

 central caryosome, is in the anterior part of the body, normally 

 between two layers of very small hyaline granules. The contractile 

 vesicle, rather large, has its place in the posterior portion of the 

 body. When the animalcule is seen somewhat retracted in the 

 shell, but still with its cylindrical shape, it proves to be deprived 

 temporarily of that special protoplasmic collar which is known 



6 The form is nearly that of the flower in the genus Polygonatum, hence the 

 specific name. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



in Craspedomonads, but instead, there is a thick layer of delicate 

 purely ectoplasmic substance, which constitutes, in fact, the ma- 

 terial for the building up of the collar. After a moment's observa- 

 tion, one notices the protoplasmic layer growing upwards, becoming 

 cup-shaped and more and more lengthened, and at last it has grown 

 into a funnel, whose length nearly equals that of the animalcule 

 itself, but it is so thin and delicate that only the two borders, right 

 and left, can be seen, and as for the anterior rim it remains (as in 

 most of the Craspedomonadina) entirely invisible. 



In Salpingoeca polygonatum, as well as in several other rep- 

 resentatives of the group, one might easily believe in the presence 

 of two concentric protoplasmic collars; but it would be a mistake, 

 and I can only agree with the conclusions of Lemmermann (24: 

 p. 564) relative to Diplosigopsis frequentissima: "As there is, in 

 fact, in that species but one plasmatic collar, it must pass to the 

 genus Salpingoeca." But when the same observer continues 1 "How 

 it is with the other Craspedomonads where two plasmatic collars 

 have been mentioned, remains to be investigated," I should go 

 further yet and should not be astonished if both the genera Diplosiga 

 and Diplosigopsis had to be abandoned. 



The flagellum, about XYi times as long as the animalecule, is rather 

 thick and distinct, and points straight upward, swinging with longi- 

 tudinal undulations that sometimes affect the whole length of the 

 flagellum, and at other times only concern the tip. 



I very often had the opportunity to observe the reproductive 

 phenomena, which are very interesting here. In Craspedomonads, 

 transverse division, quite an exceptional fact among Flagellata, has 

 been several times mentioned, and S. Kent, for instance, figures it 

 in Salpingoeca gracilis, on Plate VI of his great classical work. 

 Within the capsule are seen the two products of the division, still 

 united to each other by a very thin tubular film, which soon will 

 cut in the middle and form the two new collars. My own observa- 

 tions quite confirm the facts; first the body retracts, then loses its 

 shape and appears an ovoid mass, and finally this mass becomes 

 transversally sectioned ; the upper of the two animalcules thus formed 

 then rapidly rises towards the aperture of the shell, drawing out 

 at the same time an axial, varicose filament or future flagellum, 

 which gets thinner and thinner, and forming also around the cir- 

 cumference a thin tubular protoplasmic film, which unites the two 

 new individuals (Plate VI, fig. 21). Each of these then lengthens, 

 and the upper one becomes somewhat curved, leans with its con- 

 cave side against the border of the capsule, and disengages its fla- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



gellum (either by a simple cutting, or perhaps, as it sometimes 

 seemed to be, by separation of two flagella, which existed before 

 but were glued together); at the same moment, the plasmatic tube 

 divides and soon retracts on each of the new individuals. As soon 

 as the separation is achieved, the upper individual oscillates on the 

 rim of the shell, turns slowly down, and' its flagellum is then seen 

 pointing forwards. The little organism contracts somewhat, and 

 remains quiet for some time, then suddenly darts forward, carrying 

 in front of it a very long flagellum, longer, it seems, that it will be 

 afterwards (Plate VI, fig. 22). It swims very rapidly, describing 

 large circles, then suddenly stops, rests for a time, starts and swims 

 again, rests, and so on for probably a long time, but I could not 

 determine the period. The length of the animalcule is 7[i. One 

 sees easily the anteriorly placed nucleus, and behind a large con- 

 tractile vesicle, sometimes with an accessory one; a short proto- 

 plasmic collar is also present. The entire process, from the moment 

 when both individuals are distinctly separated but yet quite near 

 each other, to the darting away of the little flagellated animalcule, 

 has lasted but six or seven minutes. As for the lower individual, 

 which remained in the cell, it expanded in a few minutes also. 



But things are often quite different: the young animalcule, which 

 has just disengaged from the cell, instead of darting forward, re- 

 mains quiet for a time, as if hesitating, then, with a few very weak 

 downward beatings of the flagellum, slips along the exterior wall of 

 the shell it has just left, and soon settles quite near, lying along the 

 mucilaginous covering of the Zygnema (Plate VI, fig. 24, a). How- 

 ever, it very soon stands up straight on the jelly (Plate VI, fig. 24, 6), 

 and ten minutes after the first contact with the substratum it is 

 already seen to have produced a very short root (c), which soon 

 will reach the cellulose wall {d, e, /). But during that time also, 

 the first rudiments of the new envelope are deposited, a thin film 

 around the body, along which the animalcule soon rises, leaving 

 the empty posterior end of the capsule behind. In fig. 23, which 

 is an enlargement of / in fig. 24, the body is seen to swell out later- 

 ally, so as to press everywhere on the anterior part of the cell and 

 enlarge it, somewhat like a potter who moulds his clay, but in- 

 stead of a finger, the whole body is here employed. A little later 

 (Plate VI, fig. 24, g), the body has retracted a little, the widened 

 borders of the capsule are free, and are even too much expanded 

 but will soon contract a little. The animalcule, however, moves 

 more and more upward, and finally shapes up the aperture of the 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



cell, very likely in the same manner as will be described in the next 

 species; but I could not follow the events to the end, owing to the 

 animalcule being lost by accident. 



But such a division into equal parts is not the only one that can 

 be observed. I happened twice to meet with quite another process. 

 Instead of an equal transverse division of the individual, a very 

 small portion only was seen to detach; first a little bud (Plate VI, 

 fig. 25, a) at the anterior end of the body, then (Plate VI, fig. 25, b), 

 after complete separation, a spherical little being was formed, hardly 

 5[i. in diameter, with a long flagellum and a normal contractile vesicle; 

 then it lengthened into a little flagellate, whose small size was the 

 only character to distinguish it from the normal individuals. I 

 could not, however, follow the little swimming organisms very 

 far, and cannot suggest any explanation of the phenomena. Per- 

 haps the cases were purely pathological. 



Encystment was often observed. 7 The body becomes a yellow- 

 ish olivet green, then a golden yellow, and finally brown; a mem- 

 brane has gradually been secreted, which grows finally very thick; 

 at first it is transparent enough to allow of the contractile vesicle 

 to be distinctly seen, but finally it looks quite opaque. A very 

 curious fact which remains to be noted (Plate VI, fig. 26) is that 

 up to the completion of the construction of the cyst, the anterior 

 part is open, and from the opening are seen still protruding either 

 the collar or both the collar and the flagellum. Only when the 

 construction is entirely finished, these plasmatic appendages 

 begin to retreat, disappearing in the cyst itself; this latter, then, 

 is seen to be cylindrical, or somewhat swollen in the middle (Plate 

 VI, fig. 27), and may be compared to a cannon shell, provided 

 anteriorly with a circular opening, which also, however, will soon 

 be shut. Old cysts, in fact, generally have no opening, yet some- 

 times an anterior aperture is visible, but in empty cysts only, 

 whose contents have very likely been liberated. 



The encystment takes place inside the capsule, yet sometimes 

 cysts are met with which are completely free from any surrounding 

 envelope, and, besides, are provided with a short yellowish stem 

 attaching them to the jelly. The fact might perhaps be explained 



7 Lemmermann (27), in his diagnosis of the genus Salpingoeca, speaks of the 

 cysts in the following terms: "Cysts inside the capsule spherical or oval, with 

 a thin membrane or naked." My observations on Salpingoeca polygonatum 

 are such as to furnish us with new or different data. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



by the encystment of swimming naked specimens, which hardly 

 arriving into contact with the Zygnema, encysted directly, rather than 

 building their normal envelope. Plate VI, fig. 28, which also rep- 

 resents a cyst of Salpingoeca polygonatum, such as I have seen several 

 times, formed during the night from specimens which had been seen 

 expanded the evening before, shows yet another kind of cyst. The 

 animalcules in these cases contract into a perfect spherule, yellowish 

 and shining, and besides a thin shell has been constructed also, but 

 balloon-like and without any opening at all. 



A few words might be added here, about the taxonomy. In 

 Salpingoeca, a very large genus and one which soon will . become 

 much larger still, the form of the capsule is very constant, and fur- 

 nishes a very good — perhaps the only good — diagnostic character. 

 Now I could find nowhere such a description as might apply to the 

 species just described. It is very near to Salp. gracilis J. Clark, 

 but the capsule in that species is not cylindrical, being rather drawn 

 out into a long narrow point, which appearance I never could detect 

 in Salp. polygonatum. 



Salpingoeca lepidula sp. n. Plate VI, figs. 29-33; Plate VII, figs. 34-40. 



As stated in the preceding chapter, it is sometimes very difficult 

 to come to a precise determination of the species in the genus Sal- 

 pingoeca; and only after much hesitation have I come to the con- 

 clusion that the present form ought to be described as new. It is, 

 in fact, very nearly related to Salp. buetschlii Lemmermann, butin 

 this latter, the larger size as well as the more rounded and swollen 

 contour, and, more than all, the very considerable enlargement of 

 the cup -like opening, do not allow identification with the present 

 species. The affinity would be more evident with Salp. ampho- 

 ridium S. Clark, and also Salp. vaginicola Stein, at least as Burck (6) 

 figures them in his 1909 work, 8 but in these the form of the capsule 

 is not the same, being more like S. buetschlii in general appearance, 

 and having a narrow pedicle which is not present in Salp. lepidula; 

 this latter, also, always possesses two contractile vacuoles. 



However it may be, the species which we are now going to con- 

 sider was found covering in great quantities the threads of a Nos- 

 toccacean, itself abundant in one of the aquaria of the Zoological 

 Laboratory at Geneva. 



8 In Pascher's "Siisswasser-Flora" (27), these two species are figured on p. 82. 

 but with quite a different form from that given by Burck. It is quite possible, 

 indeed, that Burck had studied new forms, which it would have been advantge- 

 ous to give as such. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART 1 



The capsule (Plate VI, fig. 29), about lAy. in height, has the shape 

 of an urn, elegantly lengthened, resting by a broad, truncated base 

 on a very distinct flattened cushion, which itself is applied to the 

 substratum. From that flattened base, the lateral curve first some- 

 what contracts, but very soon dilates regularly, up to a distance 

 a little above the middle of the height of the shell; then contracts 

 again, to finally dilate in an expanded border. The protoplasmic 

 body, rounded behind and itself elegantly urn-shaped, fills only 

 half of the shell; the nucleus is very distinct, as a bluish spherule 

 about the anterior third of the body; two contractile vesicles are 

 found, one right and the other left, one posterior and the other 

 inferior, and they regularly alternate in their function, emptying 

 about each third minute; one of them, somewhat larger, seems to 

 be the principal one, the other being accessory. The f lagellum, about 

 1 3^2 times as long as the body, is most of the time visible only up to 

 the middle of its length, on account of the rapid vibration of its 

 anterior portion. The protoplasmic collar, which is particularly 

 interesting, is mostly found with the appearance normal in Cras- 

 pedomonadina, being like a funnel, whose height may be equal to 

 that of the animalcule itself; but this protoplasmic funnel is sub- 

 ject to extraordinary deformations. The peculiar accumulation of 

 very pure ectoplasm which generally fills the funnel all around 

 the flagellum is seen, for instance, to move up along the funnel 

 itself (Plate VII, fig. 40), or the very thin film of hyaline plasma 

 which surrounds the plasmatic neck — perhaps the "Schleimhulle" 

 or mucilaginous layer Burck speaks of — expands and covers the 

 exterior surface; and the collar itself, now persisting, now collapsing 

 or getting mixed with the invading ectoplasm, takes on the most 

 diverse appearances. Plate VII, fig. 37, for instance, shows a short- 

 ened, thickened collar, whose border has especially thickened; in 

 fig. 38, the same structures are represented, one minute later than 

 in fig. 37; in fig. 39, at the same time that the ectoplasm expands 

 on the inside of the wall of the collar, it climbs up along the fla- 

 gellum; in fig. 40, the ectoplasmic film it seen left and right climb- 

 ing upwards, many more figures might have been drawn, showing 

 the most varied structure, for instance a film of plasma moving up 

 on one side only and leaving the other free, or a big plasmatic spher- 

 ule filling the entire opening of the capsule. Plate VII, fig. 36 

 gives an idea of a very peculiar process, which I was able once to 

 follow quite at length: a big mass of ectoplasmic matter protruded 

 from the mouth of the capsule, and became rounded, uniting with 

 the material of the now retracted collar, and after a few minutes, 

 from that protoplasmic spherule started lobes and thread-like pro- 

 tuberances, some of which got very thin and long, and at last reached 

 down to the supporting alga and there became affixed. After a 

 time, however, all the lobes and threads began retracting back- 

 wards. At 11 h., 10 min., the appearance was that shown by fig. 36, 

 Plate VII; at llh., 30 min., everything was beginning to re-enter 

 the shell; at llh., 35 min., the rudiments of a new funnel were seen 






1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



to be expanding upwards ; at 1 1 h . , 45 min. , the collar was normal again, 

 and the flagellum, which had for a time disappeared from sight, 

 extended freely in the axis of the funnel. 



The overflowings of plasmatic matter, which are frequently met 

 in this particular species, are very little known; in some forms 

 similar facts have been mentioned, and Burck. who, however, did 

 not happen to meet with any such cases, speaks of the subject in 

 the following words: "I have not found in normal individuals such 

 formation of pseudopodia as Sav. Kent says he sometimes met 

 with. According to this observer, Choanoflagellata may even pass 

 through amoeboid stages. Zacharias assigns some importance to 

 the pseudopodia in the capture of food, and does not hesitate to 

 call them organs of prehension. France also observed Lobopodia 

 in several places on the body. In my opinion such structures occur 

 only in wounded individuals, which are not far from death." 



I do not think such occurrences must necessarily be associated 

 with a state of disease, but could not help sometimes observing a 

 certain coincidence between the development of these pseudopodia 

 and the abundance of food, the animalcules capturing then with 

 increased quickness very small special organisms (sulfureous algae?) 

 which were extremely abundant all around. But this way of cap- 

 turing food is certainly exceptional; the nutritive elements are 

 mostly thrown down straight upon the plasmatic funnel, either on 

 its outer surface or more often on the inner surface. When the 

 prey are very small, they seem to be digested inside the wall of the 

 collar itself; a small shining globule, for instance, such as was mostly 

 the case, was seen to lose by and by the sharpness of its outline, 

 then to swell up, turn pale, and at last disappear, without having 

 moved at any time from the place it occupied. But when the prey 

 are caught quite near the bottom of the funnel, a vacuole immedi- 

 ately forms around them, and they are quickly seen to disappear 

 downwards. In one particular case, I saw a small shining particle 

 fall on the naked neck of an animalcule that had not yet constructed 

 more than half its shell; it was immediately caught in a vacuole, 

 and slowly slipped down along the surface of the body, to stop after 

 five minutes quite near the posterior extremity (Plate VI, fig. 33). 

 The downward course seemed to have been effected in a spiral line, 

 but I no more than Burck could detect the least sign of a fine spiral 

 tracing, itself representing, as France will have it, the border of a 

 spirally coiled funnel. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



Burck (6: page 183) discusses in a few lines the evacuation of 

 foecal material: " As regards defecation, my opinion is the same as 

 that of Clark and Butschli, who observed the elimination of digested 

 food to take place very near the base of the flagellum inside the 

 plasmatic collar." And further on he adds: "An evacuation of 

 ingesta at any point of the body surface, as Fisch supposes it to 

 occur, is certainly not correct." Though agreeing with these 

 statements in general, I should propose a slight restriction concern- 

 ing the last of these conclusions: if it must be considered certain 

 that the evacuation of foeces is not possible at all points of the 

 body indiscriminately, an exception ought to be made at least for 

 the plasmatic funnel; I have often seen captured granules (which 

 very likely were not to the taste of the animalcule) slowly glide 

 upwards, and when near the very border of the funnel, be suddenly 

 hurled away (as if by a sharp undulation of the border?),, and curi- 

 ously enough, these very small granules or microbes, which were 

 probably provided with invisible flagella, after having proved quite 

 inert and unmoved as long as they were included in the vacuole, 

 when cast out at once began to toss about in a rapid dance, soon 

 disappearing. 



On the 9th and 10th of February, I met with a considerable num- 

 ber of small naked Flagellates (Plate VII, fig. 34), which could be 

 referred without any hesitation to this same species; the size, the 

 two contractile vesicles, nucleus, flagellum, protoplasmic collar, 

 everything, in fact, indicated specimens which had left the shell 

 and had adopted a free life. They swam quickly about, in small 

 circles, without ever getting very far away; or they went straight 

 forwards, for a distance hardly more than five or six times their own 

 length, then stopped for a second or two, darted forwards again, 

 and so on for a long time, proceeding by sudden intermittent ad- 

 vances. Perhaps some correlation might be supposed to exist be- 

 tween this sort of progression and a very curious fact, other exam- 

 ples of which are hardly to be expected in the whole series of the 

 Flagellata, but which could easily be ascertained in each of the 

 specimens observed, namely, that the flagellum, instead of drawing 

 the body, was pushing it from behind; the flagellum, in fact, is pos- 

 terior. But the small animalcule has itself changed in shape, it 

 has shortened, and at the same time has taken the form of a top, 

 pointed in front (in front when swimming, in reality it is the hind 

 part of the body), and as for the plasmatic collar, it is seen reduced 

 to one-quarter of its former length, but is rather thick and very 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 131 



distinct and still. The most interesting fact about that change in 

 shape is perhaps the pointed extremity which never exists in the 

 resting stage, and certainly seems an adaptation for swimming. 



Plate VI, fig. 30 illustrates a case of division, nearly completed, 

 such as I met with on the 8th of February. Very likely the process 

 had been the same as that described in the previous chapter, for 

 Saljringoeca polygonatum. The new Flagellate, ovoid in shape, is 

 seen about to draw its flagellum from the shell it has just left, and 

 beginning to glide down towards the supporting Alga. It is seen 

 about $i of a minute later, nearly touching the ground but with 

 its flagellum still attached to the border of the cup (Plate VI, fig. 31) ; 

 one minute more, and the flagellum was free, pointing straight up- 

 wards, the protoplasmic collar had begun to develop, and the in- 

 ferior extremity had become pointed. Very likely the rudiments 

 of a new capsule were already beginning to appear; but at that 

 very moment, the supporting Nostoc passed into some rubbish and 

 was lost to sight. Other specimens, however, were found that 

 same day and the next, at the stage just described (Plate VI, fig. 32), 

 and they allowed of further observations: 9 



Immediately after fixation, the little body takes the form of a 

 long top, with a distinct plasmatic collar, in which food particles 

 are already caught; but the characteristic posterior point immedi- 

 ately changes into a very fine thread, and as the body gets higher 

 and higher, leaving the ground behind, the thread gets longer, being 

 just sufficient to prevent the escape of the Flagellate, but certainly 

 unable to keep it upright. The body, in fact, is kept upright by 

 a very thin envelope, which has already formed, the appearance 

 being" that of an egg in its cup (in Fig. 33, Plate VI, dotted lines 

 indicate the rudiments of the shell). The new envelope is so thin, 

 that one hardly can detect it, like two fine lines left and right of 

 the point of fixation, and which diverge more and more to meet 

 the body in its most swollen portion. The animalcule, in fact, 

 rose while propping itself against the very borders of the partly 

 constructed cell; but after a normal height has been reached the 

 body ceases to get higher, the posterior thread disappears, the ani- 

 malcule swells and moulds its body into the very form the shell 

 will invest afterwards, and deposits all over its own surf ace a very 

 thin pellicula, then retracts when the pellicula has become hard. 



•Several of these specimens seemed from their particularly large size to rep- 

 resent adults, which had left their shell without previously dividing. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PaRT J. 



The capsule is now nearly complete, and its walls soon will grow 

 thicker; but one thing is wanting, namely the neck, or rather its 

 widened border; and now — if two observations, both agreeing, 

 suffice for the statement — the difficulty is removed in a very in- 

 genious way. The animalcule lengthens somewhat, then bends 

 first to one side (Plate VII, fig. 35), then to another side, leaving 

 some material behind, acting in fact like the finger of a potter 

 about to broaden the aperture of a cup, but here the displacements 

 are exceedingly slow, very likely because, before leaving the con- 

 tact portion of the border, the animalcule must wait till the de- 

 posited film is hardened. 



From my observations, the construction of the capsule takes a 

 long time, from morning to evening; but it is quite possible that 

 in nature things go much quicker, owing to more favorable con- 

 ditions. 



Chrysamoeba radians Klebs. Plate VII, flgs. 41-44. 



Chrysamoeba radians, which Klebs described in 1892 (21), is not 

 fare, and yet remains little-known; every observer has seen it, but 

 very few have gone to the trouble of studying it at length. This 

 study, it must be said, is little encouraging in itself, doubts and 

 uncertainties are met with on many points, contractile vesicle, 

 chromatophore, flagellum, division, capture of food, even the very 

 existence of this Flagellate as a distinct species has been doubted, 

 and so many little organisms are met with, whose study looks more 

 profitable, that this particular one is easily neglected. 



Scherffel, in 1901 (29), treats in a few pages of this little organ- 

 ism, and says in regard to the flagellum: "Besides the pseudqpodia 

 a swinging flagellum is sometimes seen, probably only when the 

 amoeba is about to change to the Flagellate state, but as a rule there 

 is none." A little further on, he says concerning animal feeding: 

 "Klebs was not able to observe the capture of foreign bodies, and 

 Senn says, in 1900, holozoic nutrition has not yet been observed. 

 Yet in 1890 I had observed in a vacuole a little rod with the appear- 

 ance of a Bacterium. This year in the spring I was able to verify 

 the direct capture of green Algae and the evacuation of brown 

 undigested remnants of food." Later on, in 1911 (30) the same 

 observer, in his chapter under the title "Chrysamoeba and Chromu- 

 lina nebulosa," seems to doubt his former observations about a 

 flagellate stage, thinking the observed Flagellates might not have 

 belonged to Chrysamoeba. "I consider more and more as probable 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



the opinion that the genus Chrysamoeba is in fact a purely amoeba- 

 like form, with never any flagella, comparable to those of organisms 

 like Chromulina or even Ochromonas, but owing to this very absence 

 of flagella, these forms are so characteristic in themselves that it 

 seems advisable to retain Chrysamoeba as representing an inde- 

 pendent genus." 



Pascher, in the fascicle of his "Siisswasser-Flora" (27), which 

 treats of the Chrysomonadina and is dated 1913, does not even 

 mention the name Chrysamoeba in his list of accepted genera but 

 only devotes a few lines to the subject, in a foot-note on page 13: 

 "Klebs has created the name Chrysamoeba for Chromulina-like 

 Chrysomonadina with two large chromatophores and an anterior 

 contractile vesicle, which may turn into Rhizopods and develop 

 pseudopodia after losing their flagella." In the same work, on 

 page 90, Pascher comes again to the subject, and considers this 

 same organism as belonging to the genus Rhizochrysis, "an arti- 

 ficially created genus that includes several Chrysomonadina of differ- 

 ent origin, whose Flagellate-stage has been lost or in which, if pres- 

 ent, it is not yet known." Chrysamoeba, such as Scherffel under- 

 stood it, has now become Rhizochrysis scherffelii Pascher. 10 



During these last four years, while looking for Infusoria, 

 I have often met with Chrysamoeba, in several localities and in all 

 seasons of the year, and at the end of 1914 and the beginning of 

 1915, I devoted some time to its study (perhaps it is not quite use- 

 less to state that most of my collections of material were made 

 after breaking a thick layer of ice), and was able to come to some 

 interesting conclusions. The little organism I had to do with was, 

 I must say, at the same time, Chrysamoeba radians Klebs, Rhizo- 

 chrysis scherffelii Pascher, and also the Chrysamoeba-like Chromu- 

 lina Scherffel speaks of. In my opinion, one single organism i? 

 here concerned, Chrysamoeba radians Klebs, a very distinct and 

 characteristic species and genus. 



Let us first insist on the fact that Chrysamoeba is a colonial or- 

 ganism. Scherffel, in 1908, sometimes found "large colonies of 

 Chrysamoeba-like amoebae, where more than a hundred typical 

 and well-developed specimens, all without any flagellum, were in- 

 cluded in an amorphous, free-swimming jelly." At Pinchat, these 

 colonies were very abundant, sometimes very much reduced and 



10 According to Pascher, the Chrysamoeba which Scherffel observed is not the 

 same as that described by Klebs. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



with only a few individuals, sometimes with 50 or more, and even 

 100; in one particular case, one of the colonies seemed to contain 

 about 200 little amoebae; there are no limits, in fact, to the size 

 of the colony, and as for the isolated specimens, which, it must be 

 said, are always met with in greater numbers, they may very well 

 be supposed to have been detached from the colony. 



If we now look at one of these little Chrysamoebae (Plate VII, 

 fig. 41), we shall recognize a small amoeba, 15 or 18(jl in diameter, 

 star-shaped or made more or less irregular by thin clear pseudo- 

 podia, finely granulated superficially, sometimes bifurcate or rarely 

 branching, and whose length can be double the diameter of the 

 body. These amoebae very slowly change in shape, and hardly in 

 position, and the pseudopodia are seen to change also, retracting 

 or reappearing, but without seemingly playing an important part 

 in the locomotion of the animal. 



The plasma, very clear, and often with many small vacuoles, 

 contains a pale nucleus, whose structure is rather exceptional; most 

 generally, a central caryosom is to be seen, around which is a nar- 

 row annular ring of light liquid substance, then an exterior ring of 

 more compact matter; sometimes, however, only small vacuoles 

 are seen in a homogenous grey nuclear substance. The nucleus 

 is generally indistinct, hidden from view by the more evident 

 chromatophore. This latter is in the form of a large golden-brown 

 lamina, crescent-curved; it very often looks double, being first 

 lengthened, then bent in its middle so as to acquire the form of 

 the letter V. The contractile vesicle, very small and in an eccen- 

 tric position, often can hardly be distinguished; its activity is seen 

 to be very slow, and some patience is needed to become sure of its 

 periodic emptying and filling, but I could ascertain that it func- 

 tions normally, though its reappearance after closing is very slow. 

 Here and there are seen scattered in the clear plasma more or less 

 numerous small shining granules, and sometimes a large rounded 

 mass of leucosine is found, of a very pure bluish grey. There is no 

 stigma, and as for a flagellum, only in very rare instances is one to 

 be seen, extremely thin and very slowly undulating; and its occur- 

 rence is always a sign that the amoeba is beginning to prepare for 

 its swimming Flagellate form. 



It is rather curious that the question of the capture of food should 

 have been so long obscure, and still is so. Klebs could not ascer- 

 tain its reality, nor did Senn observe more about it. Scherffel, how- 

 ever, as we said before, proved the fact, leaving no doubt at all. 

 For my part, I observed in many instances the capture of small 

 green particles, and more especially certain large (sulfureous?) two- 

 segmented bacteria, which happened to come into contact with 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



the amoeba and immediately were enclosed in a vacuole, soon dis- 

 appearing inside the body, sometimes the pseudopodia were the 

 means of capture, and the bacteria were seen to glide along them 

 towards the central plasma. On two special occasions, diatoms 

 were met with, nearly as long as the Chrysamoeba itself, and in 

 course of digestion. 



Such is the amoeba form of Chrysamoeba radians; but there is 

 another form, that of a typical Flagellate, which Klebs had already 

 seen and Scherffel afterwards described, only to doubt later his own 

 observation and believe in a confusion with another organism. 

 My observations, however, are such as to leave no obscurity. Chrys- 

 amoeba really passes through a flagellate state, or rather, one might 

 say, voluntarily abandons one state for another. I have made, 

 between December 29 and January 3, several experiments on the 

 subject, which all gave the same results, five colonies of Chrysamoeba, 

 nine, thirteen, twenty-four and fifty specimens in number respec- 

 tively, were isolated on five excavated slides in clear pure water, 

 and the amoebae were seen one after another to leave the jelly, 

 which after two, three and four days was quite free of any tenant, 

 while small Flagellata were swimming about. As an example, I 

 may give here a textual copy of the brief notes taken for the small- 

 est of these colonies : 



Dec. 29. 12 o'clock. Nine fine specimens in their jelly; not one of them 

 showing any flagellum; all are expanded as small star-like amoebae, 

 15 to 18[X in diameter. 



4:30 o'clock. The same. 

 Dec. 30. 8:30 o'clock. Only four are left, a single one of them still in the 

 star form; the others are rounded, and two of them quivering; on one ol 

 them 1 can distinguish the slowly undulating flagellum. 



9 o'clock. The undulations are more rapid. 



1 o'clock. Nothing is left in the jelly, and a small flagellated individual is 

 swimming about. 



On three or four different occasions, I was able to follow in one 

 single animalcule, from beginning to end, the passage to the fla- 

 gellated state. The amoeba slowly retracts its pseudopodia, then 

 becomes spherical, and begins quivering from time to time, but 

 without the flagellum, still too delicate, being yet visible; but it 

 soon becomes distinct, and ten minutes after the first quivering 

 of the spherule, it is seen rapidly to vibrate at the anterior pole 

 of the now ovoid or pyriform animalcule; this latter then moves, 

 leaves the jelly, and goes in a straight course, revolving on its long 

 axis and swinging in a pendulum-like movement. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



This Chrysamoeba-FlageWate (Plate VII, fig. 43), 18 to 20[x in 

 length, is ovate, with the broader extremity either anterior or poste- 

 rior according to the individuals, sometimes it is somewhat stretched 

 behind. It contains a distinct, curved chromatophore, a small con- 

 tractile vesicle near the anterior extremity, very small shining gran- 

 ules, and often a large spherule of pure leucosine; the nucleus gen- 

 erally remains indistinct, hidden in the curve of the golden-green 

 chromatophore; the flagellum, very thin, hardly longer than the 

 body, takes its origin from a very small notch, above which the 

 anterior extremity rises in a small prominence. 



After swimming about for a time whose duration I could not 

 make sure of, 11 the Flagellate again comes to the amoeba stage, and 

 contracts into a spherule (Plate VII, fig. 42), the surface of which 

 soon begins showing small projecting denticulations, then each of 

 these protuberances develops into a very thin pseudopod, which 

 soon thickens, at the same time the flagellum gets more indistinct, 

 it is thin, flabby, and remains for a long time at rest; now and then, 

 however, it seems to come to life again, and oscillates for a brief 

 moment; and finally it disappears, either collapsed, or rather — if 

 a single observation entitles to ajudgment — resolves into a chaplet 

 of tiny pearls, which are lost by and by. 



Division has rarely been observed. As far as I know, Klebs and 

 Scherffel alone have mentioned a few cases, and one cannot but be 

 somewhat surprised at the rarity of the occurrence, when thinking 

 of these big colonies whose constituent members might be sup- 

 posed to arise from a single primary individual. As it is, I was 

 able to verify a few cases of division, but only one of these could 

 be studied at length. The animalcule was found already somewhat 

 stretched in length (Plate VII, fig. 44, a), and was provided with 

 two chromatophores, still united, which together had the shape 

 of a W; to the left, a big mass of leucosine; to the right, a very large 

 vacuole. Two minutes after that first observation, the chroma- 

 tophores were separated, the vacuole had grown bigger still, and 

 the leucosine globule had elongated (Plate VII, fig. 44, b); a little 

 later, the 8-form of the body was much more apparent (Plate VII, 

 fig. 44, c), the leucosine body was still more elongated; the big vacu- 



11 The resting or amoeba state, whose duration is not difficult to notice, can 

 last for days, but this duration may also be much reduced, and 1 have seen for 

 instance a flagellated individual transform into an amoeba and develop pseu- 

 dopods; but two hours later the little organism had disappeared again as if 

 not satisfied with the new condition. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 137 



ole, after having acquired an immense size, burst and disappeared 

 (Plate VII, fig. 44, d); the leucosine globule became divided into 

 two parts, one of which passed to each of the new individuals just 

 when the bridge between them was breaking (Plate VII, fig. 44, e) ; 

 and the two new amoebae slowly went their way (Plate VII, fig. 44, 

 /). The whole process, from a to/, had lasted twenty minutes. At no 

 time had it been possible to detect the least indication of a flagel- 

 lum. Scherffel, in the first case he studied, observed (1911, p. 315) 

 that one of the new individuals, long before the separation, already 

 possessed a slowly oscillating flagellum, but later on, when he again 

 had the opportunity to observe a second case of division, he found 

 that neither of the new individuals ever developed any. For my 

 part, I consider it quite possible that in both cases Scherffel had 

 seen rightly: in the first one, the amoeba immediately prepared for 

 the flagellate stage, in the second it remained an amoeba. 



But if this case of division is the only one I could study at length, 

 there is another which I should like to mention, which though not 

 proving successful at last, is indeed hardly less interesting. The 

 amoeba, when found, was already narrowed in the middle, and in 

 possession of two distinct chromatophores, each of them in a V form, 

 but united together by their adjacent extremities, like a W; so firmly 

 united, in fact, that when but a narrow bridge alone separated the 

 two new individuals, one of the chromatophores, which should have 

 entered the new individual, had not been able to follow the move- 

 ment, and remained in what we might call the "old" individual, 

 while the "new" animalcule, quite deprived of any green matter, 

 was just going away. A very narrow bridge, however, a mere 

 protoplasmic. thread, was still uniting the two amoebae; but danger 

 was coming, an air-bubble approaching more and more, and to get 

 rid of it I added some water to the side of the cover. The bubble 

 retracted, but, as a consequence of a violent temporary shaking, 

 the couple seemed to give up dividing, the bridge got wider, and 

 by and by the new pale individual slowly "re-entered" the old one, 

 after a moment a single amoeba was seen, with two chromatophores 

 instead of one. But without that disastrous commotion, certainly 

 an entire separation was quite near, and the new amoeba would 

 have been colorless, just like the specimen which Scherffel once 

 found, and figures on Plate VI of his 1901 work. 



To conclude with Chrysamoeba, I ought perhaps to speak of the 

 encystment. Some observations have been made which allowed 

 curious conclusions, so eurious, indeed, that ... it would be 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



better not to mention them, as possibly they relate to some other 

 organism. 



Chrysopyxis bipes Stein. Plate VI11, figs. 45-49. 



"Chrysopyxis bipes has often been discussed in the literature, 

 and yet seems to me not to be at all well understood in its organi- 

 zation." Such are the words with which, in 1911 (30), Scherffel 

 begins his chapter about Chrysopyxis, and though the following 

 pages of the work threw a good deal of light on the most in- 

 teresting points, it will not be quite useless to report some further 

 observations here. But before relating my own experiences, I 

 should like to reproduce the lines with which Scherffel introduces 

 the subject: 



"According to the existing descriptions, Chrysopyxis is a fla- 

 gellated Chrysomonad, provided with a shell. According to Stein, 

 the animalcule is in possession of two flagella. Other observers, 

 like Lemmermann, and Pascher, are of the opinion that there is 

 only one flagellum. Iwanoff (1899) tried to explain these different 

 statements by the fact that normally a single flagellum exists, but 

 that this under special circumstances appears ravelled out in 

 threads, so as to look branched. The two flagella of Stein would 

 thus be reduced to a single branched one. Pascher (1909) accepts 

 Iwanoff's opinion, and gives in his Plate XI, fig. 26, a hypothetical 

 drawing of a specimen in which the individual threads of the 

 branched flagellum are wound up together at the base, and so ex- 

 plain the simple, thick, basal part of the flagellum. I had myself 

 a good many occasions to observe Chrysopyxis in life, but I never 

 succeeded in distinguishing an undulating flagellum, nor that 

 "ravelling into threads" (Zerfaserung) which Iwanoff and Pascher 

 speak of, and the existence of which I must confess to being very 

 skeptical about." 



Chrysopyxis is often met with, but my observations upon that 

 interesting little Chrysomonad nearly all refer to a single station, 

 that same shallow marsh at Pinchat where so many Protozoa have 

 been found, and where in the spring of 1916 it was seen to cover 

 in great numbers the long threads of Zygnema. 



The capsule (Plate VII, fig. 45), about 13;x in length, is ovoid in 

 shape, and at the same time pyriform, its anterior extremity being 

 drawn into a very short tube, which, however, is hardly distinct 

 enough to deserve the name. This little case stands upright on 

 the vegetal filament, posteriorly drawn to one side in a very thin 

 thread which turns down around the Zygnema, and describes a 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



complete circle to rejoin the base of the cell on the opposite side. 12 

 In most of the specimens, the capsule is quite colorless, but with 

 age it grows yellow; it is mainly of a cellulose nature, as is easily 

 shown by the chloride of zinc reaction. Iwanoff (19), however, 

 speaks of the violet coloration as only in the shell, the annular ring 

 remaining colorless. Yet I have seen that very ring distinctly 

 colored, and probably IwanofFs negative results were due to a 

 defective quality of the reagent. 



The protoplast itself, which hardly fills one-half of the capsule, 

 contains a large olive-green or olive-golden chromatophore,intheform 

 of a curved transverse lamina; then very small pure and shining 

 globules, often a large spherule of leucosine, and, in the anterior 

 part, a large vacuole, or sometimes two. Does this vacuole, or 

 one of them, represent here a contractile vesicle? Iwanoff indicated 

 it as such; but in one of the observed individuals I happened to 

 see, at the posterior extremity, a very distinct vacuole suddenly 

 collapsing, just like a normal contractile vesicle, and it may be 

 asked if its true position would not be there, the anterior vacuole 

 being concerned with the capture of food? A nucleus was not 

 seen, being hidden, very likely, in the concavity of the green lamina. 

 Iwanoff, however, mentions the existence of "a small nucleus, some- 

 what above the middle." As to the pseudopodia, which we mast 

 consider somewhat more at length, the spherical protoplast does 

 not reach with its upper extremity so far as the aperture of the 

 shell; it appears, in fact, suspended inside the cavity, and held in 

 place by means of a plasmatic stalk, which arising from the median 

 upper point of the body, goes straight to the mouth of the shell. 

 But there, at the very opening, this stalk abruptly divides into 

 four, five, six, and up to eight lateral threads, which diverge in all di- 

 rections ; they are very thin, smooth and rigid, genuine pseudopodia, in 

 fact, and they behave as such; tiny microbes are caught, slowly glide 

 towards the mouth of the shell, then reach the central stalk, along 

 which they are seen to descend with a ten-fold rapidity. It often 

 happens, when the fishing district proves rich, that the captured 

 microbes come down in too great numbers, and are then obliged 

 to accumulate, waiting for their turn; it is, indeed, a very interesting 

 sight to notice them swallowed one after another down the main 

 trunk (Plate VII, fig. 49). 



I have never been able, among these rigid pseudopodia, to detect 

 any appearance of a flagellum, nor any transformation of a rigid 

 thread into a swinging one, and my own observations entirely con- 

 firm those of Scherffel (30), when he says: "Then also with Chry- 

 sopyxis animal-like ingestion of food occurs!" and when he adds: 



12 According to Iwanoff (19), the construction of this ring is effected in a very 

 curious manner: the animalcule, in the state of a naked zoospore, turns several 

 times around the Zygnema thread, depositing behind itself a fine train of muci- 

 laginous matter, which soon will harden into a complete ring. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



"The protoplasmic body does not possess any flagellum, any more 

 than does the amoeba stage of Chrysamoeba." 

 "The protoplasmic body does not possess any flagellum, no more 

 than does the amoeba stage of Chrysamoeba." 



But here also, as in Chrysamoeba, a flagellated state may appear, 

 not only after an act of division, 13 but as the result of a total trans- 

 formation, a process hitherto unknown in Chrysopyxis, but which 

 I happened to verify on several occasions: the body becomes spheri- 

 cal, the pseudopodiar etract, and the little spherule begins quivering 

 in its cell, a flagellum, in fact, is there already; then the spherule 

 lengthens, reaches the aperture, becomes swollen anteriorly, so as 

 to press on the tubular opening and force the exit (Plate VII, fig. 47), 

 and finally leaves the cell. It looks now almost like a small fla- 

 gellated Chrysamoeba, yet relatively broader and more rounded, 

 with an anterior rapidly swinging flagellum, a normal chromato- 

 phore, small granules and often a leucosine body (Plate VII, fig. 48). 



Both figs. 46 and 49, Plate VII, and especially the latter figure, 

 represent cells which are entirely without the normal tubular ex- 

 tremity. A good many such specimens were met with, generally 

 smaller than the type, about 11 or 12[a in length as well as in 

 breadth. Were they young individuals? or was it a different 

 species, perhaps Lauterborn's Chrysopyxis stenostoma (Susserwas- 

 ser-Flora," p. 28, fig. 43), which, however, is described as possess- 

 ing two chromatophores. At any rate, it is well to reproduce here 

 the words accompanying Pascher's diagnosis of Chrysopyxis: 

 "a genus too little studied, and whose several forms are relatively 

 little known." 



Hyalobryon ramosum Lauterborn. Plate VIII, flgs. 50-54. 



In that same marsh at Pinchat was often found, in every season 

 and often in great abundance, the Flagellate for which Lauterborn 

 (23) created the name Hyalobryon. "The present genus of Chryso- 

 monadina," says the German observer, "deserves its name rightly 

 to this extent, that it is positively difficult to distinguish clearly 



13 Plate VII, fig. 46 shows such a case of division, which is well known today, 

 whose process Pascher summarizes in the following words ("Susswasser-Flora," 

 p. 28): "Multiplication by longitudinal division of the protoplast, after which 

 one of the parts leaves the shell in the form of a zoospore with a single flagellum." 

 In this fig. 46, it is to be noted that, in spite of the process being already very 

 far advanced towards its end, one pseudopod was still to be seen, relatively 

 thick, and pointing straight up; microbes were still caught, and slowly glided 

 along towards the body. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



even the outlines of the colonies; as a rule one sees only the numerous 

 golden-brown Flagellates, placed next to each other, without its 

 being possible to decide how they are arranged." 



" Hyalobryon constitutes, like the well-known Dinobryon, tree- 

 like or brush-like colonies, but which, different from the latter 

 genus, do not swim freely about, but are fixed on water-plants or 

 any other substratum. The number of the individuals united into 

 a colony is very variable and sometimes goes to a hundred. Like 

 Dinobryon the Flagellates inhabit special capsules, which here are 

 of a tubular form and often are more or less, even strongly, bent; 

 the basal extremity terminates in a short cone. Towards the an- 

 terior end, the tubes become somewhat narrower, and at their bor- 

 der look finely toothed. This apparent denticulation is due to 

 the fact that the Flagellates, which always stand near the aperture 

 of their capsule, periodically leave here a deposit in the shape of 

 new rings of growth, on the inside of the somewhat enlarged border. 

 As the process is often repeated, the tubes lengthen more and 

 more; and many of them are seen, whose anterior part is formed 

 of ten and more rings, resting cup-like in each other." 



My observations are such as to confirm in a general way those 

 of Lauterborn, but the accordance is not complete in some of the 

 details. In the Hyalobryon I had the tubes were never nar- 

 rowed near the summit; on the contrary, they were perfectly 

 cylindrical up to very near their distal extremity, where they some- 

 what expanded (Plate VIII, fig. 50) instead of narrowing. Lauter- 

 born's "Anwachsringe," or so-called "lines of growth," were mostly 

 absent; sometimes, however, they were present, either on some of 

 the members of the colony, or more rarely on nearly all of them, 

 but they could in no case be considered as rings of growth; they 

 were tubes, set in each other, each of them of some length (Plate 

 VIII, fig. 54). There was even no difficulty in ascertaining the 

 manner in which the construction had been accomplished; little 

 Flagellates approaching had undoubtedly become attached just 

 inside an empty tube, very near the opening and on one side only 

 of the wall, then they grew up, forming first a whistle-like, then a 

 regular, tube. Plate VIII, figure 54, shows this special arrange- 

 ment of the new tubes inside the old ones, and at the top is seen, 

 in the form of a simple sharp scale, the beginning of a tube whose 

 construction was not continued, the Flagellate having, it must be 

 supposed, left the place very soon after finding it. 



It would then be necessary to modify the terms used by Lauter- 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART 1 



born concerning the fixation of these Flagellates: "While in Dino- 

 bryon the younger cells are set inside the inner border of the old 

 ones, in Hyalobryon it is the outside wall that is chosen as a point of 

 fixation, and this point is very far from the aperture." Now there 

 seems to be here some misunderstanding , Lauterborn is here speaking 

 of the fixation as quite a different thing from the "lines of growth," 

 which latter would in his opinion point to a single individual build- 

 ing a formal row of rings above each other, while according to my 

 observations there are no "lines of growth" at all, but the animal- 

 cules would settle down in two different ways: either inside empty 

 tubes, as we just described, or outside and generally very far away 

 from the opening, these latter individuals would enlarge the colony 

 in size and breadth, the former would only lengthen the existing 

 tubes. 



The second way, by simple juxtaposition, is by far the more fre- 

 quent of the two (atleastitwasatPinchat), and colonies are formed, 

 whose appearance is very curious and variable , now it is a branching 

 thicket, now the tubes seem to start from a single point (Plate VIII, 

 figs. 51, 52), now they are parallel to each other, now straight or 

 very often in a contorted bundle (Plate VIII, fig. 52). 



The small inhabitant of the tube is indeed of a very timid nature, 

 and leaves its tube at the first appearance of danger, the very trans- 

 portation of a colony from the general collection to an excavated 

 slide for purpose of better observation is enough to cause more 

 than half its members to escape during the journey, and those which 

 still are left also very soon take to flight. It is quite probable that 

 the animalcules are just as ready to settle down as they are to leave, 

 and empty bundles of tubes may very well get the preference, they 

 then affix themselves either against or inside the tubes, but in this 

 latter case quite near the opening, and according to the conditions 

 the changes may be of such frequency that after a time a formal set 

 of rings are seen one behind the other. 



As for the tubes themselves, whose length may reach as much as 

 150[x (Lauterborn speaks of 55\i) for only 5 or 6(x in breadth, they 

 are perfectly colorless, and "for an exact study it is necessary to 

 have recourse to staining, which does not present any difficulty, 

 as they very quickly absorb aniline colors" (Lauterborn). I may 

 add that Dahlia tincture instantly colors the tubes a very fine peach- 

 blossom tint, but this lasts only for a moment. 



The Flagellate, 18^ in length and 3 or 4 in breadth, is spindle- 

 shaped, with at its anterior extremity a short beak-like prolonga- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



tion, and, behind, it is drawn out into a point, itself continued in 

 a very thin thread, whose length may be nearly double that of the 

 fusiform body (Lauterborn calculates it to 12|jl; but I have seen 

 it attain 30;x and more), and which attaches by its extremity far 

 away on some point of the inner surface of the tube. This attach- 

 ing filament is highly retractile, and from time to time draws the 

 animalcule very far inside the tube. Its normal position is at some 

 little distance from the opening. In the anterior part of the body 

 is seen the chromatophore, a golden-brown lamina, but which only 

 appears distinct on one of its sides, where it is seen double becauses 

 of its recurving there on itself. Sometimes it looks broken in its 

 middle, and the appearance is that of two rods joining each other 

 at an angle. At its anterior extremity is a very small, but distinct 

 stigma. In the same part of the body is a small contractile vesicle 

 (Lauterborn found two), and behind the chromatophore lies gener- 

 ally a large, egg-shaped mass of leucosine; in the very pure and 

 transparent plasma, tiny shining granules are disseminated; a very 

 pale globular nucleus, with a small central caryosom, occupies the 

 middle of the body, being mostly very indistinct on account of the 

 chromatophore, in the folds of which it is lost. From the slight 

 notch that is seen at the anterior extremity, two fiagella arise; one 

 of them, the principal one, about as long as the body, swings in 

 rapid longitudinal vibrations, while the other, the accessory fla- 

 gellum, only 5 or 6[l in length, remains motionless at an angle of 

 35° to the former. 



A little further consideration is necessary as to the systematic 

 position of this small organism. Lauterborn did not unhesitatingly 

 propose this Flagellate as new. As far back as 1890, Imhof (18) had 

 described, with the name of Dinobryon buetschlii — but in a few 

 words only, and without any accompanying figure — a small Flagel- 

 late, very similar indeed to Lauterborn's Hyalobryon, but in this 

 form the tubes are expressly stated to be set one within another, 

 and nothing is said of the characteristic "rings of growth. 14 



The form I studied also looks rather different from Lauterborn's 

 Hyalobryon, and this typical insertion of the tubes, in place of Lauter- 

 born's "rings of growth," would seem to indicate another species, 

 perhaps Imhof's Dinobryon buetschlii? But Imhof insists on 

 the fact that in his Dinobryon "the anterior third part of the tube 

 grows gradually narrower, down to one -third of the diameter next to 

 the opening," while nothing of the sort is to be seen in Hyalobryon as 

 I could verify in hundreds of specimens. Perhaps a third species 



14 Stokes' Epipyxis sodalis (34), which presents some likeness to Hyalobryon, 

 seems to me,, even more perhaps than to Lauterborn, very different from Hyal. 

 ramosum. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART J 



is in question, or a particular variety, but the facts are not clear 

 enough to allow any definite conclusion. 



Cryptomonas ovata Ehrenberg. Plate VIII, figures 55-57. 



Pascher, on page 105 of the second fascicle of his "Siisswasser- 

 Flora," accompanies the diagnosis of the genus Cryptomonas with 

 the following reflections: "A very widely distributed genus, that 

 sometimes forms "water-flowers" (Wasserbliiten) and is frequently 

 associated with Euglenae ; is particularly frequent in water rich in 

 organic substances and in sewer refuse. Nearly all of the forms 

 are also planktonic. Only few of them are known, and an exact 

 study would furnish with a swarm of species." In a note at the 

 foot of the page, Pascher adds: "I hope to give within two years a 

 detailed monograph of the freshwater Cryptomonadinae." To my 

 knowledge, the work has not been published yet, and any informa- 

 tion about this interesting, somewhat paradoxal little group, might 

 have its importance. 



Cryptomonas is indeed found everywhere, but most of my 

 observations, dating from 1916, have been made on specimens from 

 that same marsh at Pinchat of which mention has so often been 

 made; later on, in January, 1917, a collection was studied from 

 another station, Rouelbeau, where individuals were found at rest, 

 enclosed in a gelatinous envelope, and often in course of division; 

 and lastly, in December, 1918, a special form from a pond at 

 Florissant, in the near neighborhood of Geneva, was studied again. 

 In all these different stations, the species was the same — the same, 

 at least, after determination by means of the keys in "Stisswasser- 

 Flora" — namely, Cryptomonas ovata; but such was the difference 

 between the forms of Pinchat and Rouelbeau on one side and Floris- 

 sant on the other, that one might ask if it was right indeed to re- 

 unite finally Ehrenberg's two species ovata and curvata into one 

 (ovata). The Pinchat-Rouelbeau type was in fact Crypt, ovata (with 

 the variety curvata Lemmermann), and the Florissant type was the 

 genuine Crypt, curvata Ehrenberg. 



Ehrenberg, on page 41 of his classical work (" Infusionsthier- 

 cheh"), gives the following diagnosis of Cryptomonas ovata: "Monad 

 with an oval carapace, with compressed body, oval, large, twice 

 as long as broad, fa millimeter in length, color green." Pascher 

 (Siisswasserflora, p. 105), in his diagnosis of the genus, describes 

 the general appearance in more precise terms: "Cell typically show- 

 ing dorso-ventral differentiation, with generally a more flattened 

 or even somewhat concave ventral side and often a highly convex 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



dorsal side, which at the anterior end is not infrequently drawn 

 out into a point. Anterior end diagonally truncated. . . ." In 

 spite of all descriptions, however, it would be very difficult to recog- 

 nize a Cryptomonas without a few explanatory figures, so much 

 the more, that the form of the body is exceedingly variable, from 

 that of an egg to that, of a curved spindle. The size also varies 

 within very wide limits, most of the specimens measure from 30 to 

 55[x in length, but some are very much smaller. At the end of 

 September, for instance, a multitude of very small individuals sud- 

 denly appeared, which though certainly belonging to this species, 

 measured only from 12 to 13[x (Plate VIII, fig. 56), they were nearly 

 oval in form, but grew nearer and nearer the typical form, in the 

 same proportion as the size augmented. 



Let us now consider in its more intimate structure, such an indi- 

 vidual as is shown by Plate VIII, fig. 55, which represents fairly 

 well the typical Cryptomonas ovata. The organism is seen with 

 its ventral side to the right, the dorsal convex one to the left, 

 terminating in a point, or beak-like extremity, the posterior part of 

 the body is rounded, the anterior diagonally truncated, and hollowed 

 into a depression whose deepest part is nearer the ventral side. 



The most exterior part of the body is represented by a colorless 

 periplast, of a cellulose nature, in the substance of which extremely 

 fine granulations are dispersed, whose significance, as we shall later 

 see, is that of trichocysts. Inside the colorless investing layer are 

 the chromatophores, olive-green as a rule, in the form of two curved 

 laminae which are applied to nearly the whole inner face of the 

 external layer, and joining each other by their respective borders 

 with such precision that one might think of one chromatophore 

 instead of two. They are, however, not very distinct, except on 

 their right and left sides, on account of their being seen there through 

 a greater thickness. The green laminae are paralleled on their 

 internal face by a continuous sheet of grains of starch, sometimes 

 so much pressed against each other as to deform into hexagona 

 facets, but always making only a single layer. These starch grains 

 must be regarded as a direct product of the chromatophores, and 

 at the same time as a food-reserve, for they disappear in twenty- 

 four hours with unfavorable conditions of life. Besides these amy- 

 laceous grains, others of quite another nature are found; large shining 

 bodies, very generally two in number (sometimes one and rarely three) 

 showing indistinct crystalline forms which might apparently be 

 referred to the hexagonal system; they are always found in the 

 same position, not far from the dorsal side, and just dorsal to the 

 characteristic "cage" that will be spoken of later. These special 

 bodies, which might be compared to the oxalate crystals of Rhizo- 

 pods and Infusoria, are nearly always present, an interesting fact 




146 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



to note, in comparison with Cryptomonas curvata where they never 

 exist. Very near the anterior extremity, and under the dorsal 

 prominence, is a very distinct contractile vacuole, which collapses 

 about every half minute, slowly to fill up again. The nucleus, 

 lying in the posterior region, is round, very large, very clear, and 

 has a small central caryosom. Around the nucleus is clear, pure 

 protoplasm, in which are dispersed shining globules of an extremely 

 small size, whose appearance is that of leucosine. The two flagella 

 are seen to start from the base of that beak-like prolongation that 

 terminates the dorsal side of the body, but they arise nearer the 

 ventral than the dorsal side, that is to say, on the ventral wall of 

 that deep cavity which has been erroneously called the pharynx. 

 When the little organism is swimming, nothing can be seen of the 

 flagella; at rest, one of them is generally seen rolled into a wide curve, 

 on the ventral side of the body the other extending backward, on 

 the dorsal side. In one single instance, and in a very much com- 

 pressed individual, whose body was spread into a broad layer, I 

 was able to detect a very small basal granule. The pharynx is a 

 deep, tubular or, more exactly, fusiform fossa, which plunges into 

 the body down to the middle of its length, and even sometimes 

 lower. At its lower end, this cavity is conical; near the upper end it 

 narrows to a tube, then again somewhat expands, and opens funnel- 

 like to the exterior. It is now seen to be carpeted, all along its 

 inner wall, by a continuous sheet of clear granules, in one single 

 layer and in perfect setting, disposed in such a manner that the eye 

 can divide the surface either in longitudinal or in diagonal parallel 

 lines, in two series crossing each other (somewhat like the appear- 

 ance of the shell in Arcella or, better, Cyphoderia. 16 In reality, 

 these small granules or pearls are disposed along diagonal lines 

 going from left to right and from above below, and constitute a 

 kind of "cage" whose lower end reaches far down into the pit, and 

 whose anterior end suddenly terminates in a broad truncature. 

 The number of the diagonal rows may be counted (in big specimens 

 at least) as sixteen, and each row comprises about the same number 

 of pearls also, so that we arrive to a total number of 256 pearls. 

 The cage, however, if my observations are right, is not absolutely 

 continuous; it seems to be split on one of its sides, the dorsal one, 

 and from end to end, one of the borders of the longitudinal fissure 

 being somewhat incurved; the whole cage, in fact, might be com- 

 pared to an enrolled leaf, whose edges do not completely join. The 

 layer of pearls, as we said before, carpets the inside of the pit, but 

 the actual form of the pit is not easy to determine; it is neither a 

 tube nor a fusiform cavity. Could we suppose, for instance, liquid 

 plaster to be cast into the fossa and then removed in the hardened 



16 Belar (4) gives these grains, in Chilomonas paramaecium, as forming 8 

 longitudinal rows, with 10-16 grains for each row. In Cryptomonas ovata, 

 which differs from Chilomonas only in the possession of chromatophores, the 

 grains are more numerous, and the rows also. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 147 



state, it would perhaps give a figure somewhat in the shape of a 

 very thick spoon without a handle. 



In regard to the significance of this tessellated cage, B61ar (4), 

 in his chapter devoted to Chilomonas paramaecium, has studied 

 the subject somewhat at length, and says: "I should not, as Nagler 

 does, consider these granules as supporting elements (stutzende 

 Gebilde), but rather apply that term to the fibrillae on which they 

 are set, and whose existence, if not clearly proved, may be inferred 

 from the regular arrangement of the granules, and which in face-view 

 could occasionally be seen indicated in Iron-Hematoxiline prepara- 

 tions. . . . Rather must these granules be considered as rudi- 

 ments of the jelly-trichocysts (Schleimtrichocysten) of the Crypto- 

 monads. . . . Kunstler's and Ulehla's statement, that, after the 

 crushing of the animalcule, threads come out of the pharynx, which 

 had not been there before, I can confirm myself, a fact, however, 

 which can but very rarely be observed." 



My own observations are also such as to confirm the existence 

 of the ejected threads, I have seen them on three different occasions 

 twice in the living animalcule and once after the action of sublimate, 

 but they are so very thin, so difficult to observe, that I did not, 

 at the time, consider my observations as sure, and I should hardly 

 dare to mention their existence, if my sketches, which date from a 

 time when neither the works of Belar nor those of Kiinstler or Ulehla 

 were known to me, were not in accordance with those of the Austrian 

 observer. 



After these considerations upon these special granules, Belar passes 

 to a somewhat different subject, which we must also treat of here: 

 "We might speak now of the superficial "trichocysts" of our Flagel- 

 late. Butschli was the first to observe them, after him they were 

 described by several authors, lastly by Alexieeff; Dangeard and 

 Nagler do not mention them. They appear as more or less rigid, 

 fine threads from 10 to Z0[l in length, which cover the whole surface 

 of the body. They were mostly found after treatment of the ani- 

 malcules with acetic acid. I have examined living individuals, as 

 well as others treated by acetic and other acids, but without suc- 

 ceeding, either with the simple microscope or by dark -ground il- 

 lumination, in finding anything of the sort. Only after fixation 

 with osmic acid and coloration by Lofner's method for flagella, could 

 I distinguish these elements, but then they were found in every one 

 of the individuals. They do not color intensely, but are sufficiently 

 visible. Each of the animalcules seems to be surrounded by an 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART 1 



assemblage of fine supple threads. These threads have received 

 many explanations. Blitschli considered them as trichocysts, ho- 

 mologous to those of the Ciliata; Kunstler as dead pseudopodia; 

 Lanessan as cilia, which are rendered invisible by interposition of 

 mucilage. In my opinion the first of these explanations has the 

 more probability. These thread-like elements, indeed, are only 

 found on dead animals, for if present in life they would not escape 

 observation, owing to the obstacle they would profer to locomotion. 

 We must then look for corpuscles in the body, which would explain 

 the threads themselves. And indeed, in Iron-hematoxyiin prepa- 

 rations siderophile granules are to be found in a moderate number, 

 close under the pellicula, which might eventually be considered as 

 trichocysts not yet exploded. As for an homology with the tricho- 

 cysts of Ciliata there can naturally be none. The whole question, 

 especially that of the significance of these elements, needs further 

 study." 



I have not been able to detect the presence of these special fila- 

 ments, yet must confirm the presence of the siderophile granules 

 of which Belar speaks, and with which we shall soon have to deal 

 more at length. Before going, however, into that particular sub- 

 ject, I must now consider for a time the second form I spoke of, 

 and which was found at .Florissant, Ehrenberg's Cryptomonas cur- 

 vata. The diagnosis, as given by this author, is the following: 

 "Monad with a curved carapace, with a very much compressed 

 body, large, twice as long as broad, 2V millimeter in length, anteriorly 

 and posteriorly curved somewhat in the form of the letter S; color 

 green." 



In short, the diagnosis is here nearly exactly the same as that of 

 Cryptomonas ovata; the only difference is in the slight $-curve, and 

 one can easily understand the two forms having been united into 

 one, so much the more since Cr. ovata, with its special characters 

 not found in Cr. curvata, is also sometimes in the form of an S. But 

 there are, really, differentiating characters which we must now 

 examine. The anterior curvature (towards the ventral side), and 

 the posterior (towards the dorsal side) are not of great importance, 

 yet it must be observed that the curvature was present in all the 

 specimens at Florissant, though it was exceptional in the other 

 localities. The ectoplasmic colorless pellicle was thicker, and the 

 small globular bodies (siderophile granules) were more numerous, 

 more distinct also, the chromatophores, curved behind, were more 

 distinctly separated from each other. But there are two more 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



distinguishing characters, of much greater importance: the layer 

 of starch grains which lies upon the inner surface of the chromato- 

 phores in Crypiomonas ovata was quite absent in Cr. curvata, and 

 the same relations obtained in the case of the two big crystalloid 

 bodies, which never are present in these species ; besides, a curious 

 fact was seen in curvata: if from the bases of the flagella their line 

 of direction was followed downwards, as far as the middle of the 

 pharyngeal pit, one invariably found there a special granule, very 

 distinct after compression of the animalcule, of a pale bluish hue, 

 and which immediately reddened with borax -carmine, a kineto- 

 nucleus, very probably, which could not be detected in Cr. ovata. 



After these considerations of a systematic nature, I come now 

 back to phenomena which proved common to both species, and 

 which, indeed, were the only inducement to my observing Crypto- 

 monas at some length: I mean those sudden leaps or jumps, which 

 have long been known in the genus, and those explanation has 

 never been given, or at any rate has not been proved. 



From time to time, without any apparent reason or on account 

 of some discernible danger, the animalcule suddenly leaps back- 

 ward, in an amazing jump, five, ten, twenty times its own length, 

 describing an arc or even a nearly complete circle, and always to- 

 ward the same side, its ventral or concave side facing towards the 

 center of the described arc. When danger grows extreme, and the 

 irritation is at its greatest, the jumps succeed each other without 

 intermission for a few seconds, and at last the little Flagellate falls 

 down exhausted, or sometimes bursts altogether, as if some inside 

 rupture of equilibrium has been produced, which dislocates its 

 different constituents, leaving the animalcule as a shapeless body, 

 with nucleus, starch grains, chromatophores, etc., scattered here 

 and there. 



Where are we to find the cause of these sudden jerks, the organ 

 that might produce them? The flagella are out of the question; 

 they are too weak, and besides, those individuals that happen to 

 be deprived of flagella jump just as well as the others. Ehrenberg 

 looks for the explanation in a contraction of the " lateral trunk" 

 the beak -like prolongation, if indeed such is the meaning of the only 

 line he devotes to the subject: "Das rasche Anstossen des seitlichen 

 Riissels veranlasste offenbar das Hupfen." But neither beak nor 

 trunk are in the least degree susceptible of any displacement, An- 

 other explanation has been proposed, to which Pascher ("Suss- 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [PART I 



wasserflora," p. 5) refers: "In some particular groups (Crypto- 

 monadinae), springing movements are effected by sudden contrac 

 tions." 



This explanation, which seems to be commonly accepted today, 

 but without anybody trying to prove the fact, has in my opinion 

 hardly any probability. If we take a frog, for instance, and cut 

 its four legs quite close to the body, how can we imagine it to make 

 sudden leaps two and three yards distant, by means of a contraction 

 of its body? Our Cryptomonas, after all, very much resembles a 

 frog, and even supposing its whole body to be contractile, ft would 

 be difficult to explain in this way even a mere trifling displacement. 

 Such general contractility in Cryptomonas is, besides, nothing but 

 a supposition, I don't think any observer ever noticed any contrac- 

 tions, and for my part, I could find no sign of contractility at all. 

 But even supposing the contractility to exist, the solution of the 

 question would not be much advanced, I happened on several occa- 

 sions to see the animalcule leaping, for one or two seconds at least, 

 when (under the influence of a current of glycerine) the ectoplasmic 

 layers of the body were already crumpled, inert and dead. Crypto- 

 monas, in fact, jumps after death. 



In short, the contraction theory remains a mere supposition, 

 and I may feel entitled to propose another explanation, which, if 

 not necessarily certain, seems based at least on real phenomena. 

 But before developing the subject, I must state a fact, which does 

 not seem to have been mentioned yet: beside these long leaps 

 backward, other leaps may be seen to occur, even much more fre- 

 quent, but of much less importance; the body becomes displaced 

 to right or left, forward or backward, by very slight quiverings, 

 and the same appearance is noticed as in Infusoria while they are 

 discharging their trichocysts. Now we have seen that according 

 to the researches of Belar and others, the very tiny granules that 

 are found in the periplast of Cryptomonas may be considered as 

 trichocysts ; in fact, one might compare them also to the "slime 

 trichocysts" which we shall later on speak of in Trentonia flagellata; 

 and it can hardly be doubted, I think, that the slight quiverings in 

 Cryptomonas are due to superficial trichocysts also. 



My supposition, then, could be formulated in the following words : 

 the sudden jumps backward are due to the explosion of big tricho- 

 cysts, and these are represented by the granules which line the 

 pharyngeal cavity. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



There are, of course, several objections against this statement. 

 For instance, after jumping, the animalcule seems not to have 

 suffered any change in the state of the pharyngeal "cage." But 

 that objection is not strong, in fact is perhaps in favor of the 

 theory. After one jump, even two or three, the "cage" looks 

 complete, but it would be practically impossible to detect the 

 loss of one or two granules, and one of them, indeed, on account 

 of its large size compared to one of the small superficial trichocysts, 

 would suffice to cause a leap, its sudden transformation into a con- 

 siderable mass of some light matter (fine granules, liquid material, 

 slime, or gas?), which would find its way out through the nar- 

 rowed aperture of the fossa, would certainly cause a violent reaction 

 backward. But though after two or three of these leaps the pharyn- 

 geal cage is still intact, it appears, indeed, very different when fre- 

 quent and violent leaps have rapidly succeeded one another; the cage, 

 then, is seen to be disrupted, the granules, much diminished in 

 number, are scattered in a shapeless mass; sometimes a very few 

 persist, perhaps immature ones, which did not explode. Sometimes, 

 when the animalcule is subjected to the greatest possible excitation, 

 as when a chemical reagent, for instance, comes into play, the jumps 

 rapidly succeed one another without intermission, then the body 

 collapses, bursts, and in the remaining (more or less homogeneous) 

 mass, no trace of the cage is left; as if the granules, not finding a 

 sufficiently wide way of egress, had all exploded inside the body. 



A second fact seems to argue for the same theory : the line of 

 the leap, the figure described in space by the displacement of the 

 body. It is always, as we said, an arc, or a circle when the com- 

 motion is particularly violent, and always — if I observed well — 

 with the same orientation. Now the pharyngeal pit is narrowed 

 in its anterior part into a tubular passage, somewhat curved towards 

 the ventral side, and on the supposition of a sudden emission of 

 matter through this aperture, the backward jumping must describe 

 a circular figure with the concave side of the body facing towards 

 the center. The very form of Cryptomonas might be supposed to 

 necessitate that particular direction, but, as we saw before, Crypto- 

 monas may present the most different forms, the smaller individuals 

 being even oval in shape, and yet the jumps never show any differ- 

 ence at all. 



But I must now point to a fact, which though appearing at first 

 not to be related to this subject, might on the contrary prove of 

 the greatest importance. At the end of January, 1917, in my col- 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART 1 



lections from Rouelbeau, most of the specimens were found in the 

 state of rest, enclosed in a thick gelatinous envelope, just like a 

 larva in its cocoon. 16 Now, as often as I managed to cause a slight 

 current of carmine-glycerine to come into contact with the cocoon, 

 I could see the animalcules, violently distressed and yet unable to 

 jump, revolve on their longitudinal axis, like a top, and at an extra- 

 ordinary rate, perhaps twenty turns in a second , the whirling lasted 

 for two or three seconds, and the animalcule collapsed — dead. 



The only explanation of these phenomena seems to be, that the 

 animalcule must have been submitted to a violent whirling current, 

 in a circular or spiral direction, and the current could only take 

 its origin from the inside of the cocoon itself, from the discharge, 

 in fact, of some matter which only the animalcule itself could have 

 produced. Now the direction of the tubular opening in Crypto- 

 monas is such, that on the supposition of ejected material, there 

 must have been produced the exact whirling current whose effect 

 we have noticed. 



As for the composition of the ejected matter, we remain in com- 

 plete uncertainty. We shall see later on, that in Trentonia flagellata 

 the spherules which fill the ectoplasm explode in a finely granu- 

 lar mucilaginous material, easily demonstrated as a white little 

 cloud by using India ink. In Cryptomonas, the same result might 

 have been expected, but some experiments with this method have 

 proved fruitless. I distinctly detected, in some particular cases, 

 displacements in the dark mass of infinitely small black grains, 

 and which were certainly not due to oscillations of the flagella (which 

 give quite a different appearance), but no white cloud was formed. 

 The granules did not resolve in these cases into mucilage, but per- 

 haps into very fine granules, mingled with liquid substance, whose 

 effect in India ink would hardly be conspicuous. 



Astasia mobilis (Rehberg) Alexieeff. Plate VIII, figures 58-61. 



Under the name Astasia mobilis, Alexieeff (1) described in 1912 

 a Flagellate belonging to the group of the Euglenina, and which 

 he had found in the intestine of a Cyclops. That Flagellate, how- 

 ever, had already been described by Rehberg in 1880, as Lagenella 

 mobilis, but a genus Lagenella had been created in 1850 by Schmarda 

 for another organism, and the name had to be abandoned here. 



16 Some of the animalcules, inside the gelatinous pellet, were seen to divide 

 longitudinally; but my observations on the subject are very few, and though 

 confirming in the main those of Belar on the same subject, would not add any 

 phenomena of importance. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Alexieeff, besides, pointed out that Astasia (Lagenella) mobilis is 

 very nearly related to de Beauchamp's (2) Astasia captiva, found 

 in a Rhabdocoele, Catenula lemnae, and perhaps might even be the 

 same. 



I have met at different times, in the intestine of several species 

 of Cyclops — prasinus and others much bigger and which were not 

 identified — an Astasia which easily corresponds to the two forms, 

 mobilis and captiva, at least in its general characters, but was 

 mostly of a much larger size. Alexieeff, and de Beauchamp both 

 speak of 30-40[i, Rehberg indicates 102-103[a, but in the form I 

 studied, while the very young individuals which we shall soon speak 

 of were within these limits of size, normal adult or old ones, very 

 likely much enlarged by accumulation of food, reached a much great- 

 er size, some, which in the spherical state generally shown when 

 first isolated from the host, reached as much as 88[i in diameter, 

 and after a moment, in their full state of elongation, developed to 

 a length of 300^. 



Let us now examine one of these large individuals (Plate VIII, 

 fig. 58): 



As in all the other species of the group, the organism continually 

 changes in form, its progression being effected by means of swellings 

 and undulations passing from behind forwards. "The metabolic 

 movement," says de Beauchamp, "is perfectly regular; the flow 

 moving from behind forwards, like a large drop which glides along 

 a wire, and there is nearly always a single wave, the posterior end 

 hardly beginning to enlarge by the time the drop reaches the an- 

 terior end." These swellings are sometimes so broad, in compari- 

 son with the narrow interspaces, that the appearance of the animal- 

 cule becomes most singular, like that, for instance, of a tee-totum. 

 The limiting periplast is colorless, thin, but very tough; striated 

 all over with very fine and regular diagonal lines, about Y^- distant 

 from each other. The body is nearly always entirely filled with 

 grains of paramylum, in the shape of rectangles, but rounded at 

 the ends, 3, 4, and up to 8[i in length, greenish-opalescent when 

 examined singly; but when seen as a general mass they have a black- 

 ish appearance. These grains represent undoubtedly nutritive re- 

 serves, and diminish in size the longer the animalcule fasts. At 

 the posterior extremity, these grains suddenly turn much smaller. 

 In the plasma are also found a considerable number of tiny, shining 

 granulations, colorless, ljx in diameter. The nucleus (Plate VIII, 

 figs. 58, 61), lying about in the middle of the body, is spherical, 

 and entirely filled with extremely small granules, which are of 

 variable size according to the individuals. When after compression 

 the very tough nuclear membrane is suddenly rent, there is seen 

 flowing out a large clear area of plasma in which all these tiny gran- 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP ]PART I 



ules are dispersed. These instantly become red when treated with 

 carmine stain. The contractile vacuole is often encircled by a crown 

 of smaller vesicles, which after the systole will fill up the vacuole 

 again. It is at the anterior part of he body, and empties into a large 

 reservoir, which we must consider a little more at length. The fore- 

 part of the body terminates in a slight prominence, a very small point, 

 which itself borders the entranceof a very narrow tubular opening, this 

 tube then plunges straight down, to open into a vast pouch or reser- 

 voir. But, f romthe bottom of the reservoir, or rather a little higher up 

 on one of the sides, are seen arising two very short threads, one of which, 

 the longer, is directed upwards in a diagonal course and reaches 

 up to near the top of the reservoir, whilst the other, much shorter, 

 hardly reaches the middle. 17 These two filaments, which must be 

 considered as two flagella that never extend any higher, each have 

 a basal granule, and the two granules, very near each other, some- 

 times appear enclosed in a common layer of very pure, bluish plasma. 

 This narrow bluish spot, however, is so indistinct that, doubting 

 its reality, I should not have mentioned it here, if de Beauchamp, 

 with whose observations I only became acquainted long after my 

 own were made, had not said that after the action of reagents he 

 found a small crescent-like black spot upon the wall of the principal 

 vacuole. 18 



Such is the structure of the body in these big specimens of Astasia. 

 But it may be added, that very large individuals, 80[jl in diameter 

 when in the spherical state, and 300[x when in full activity, are of 

 exceptional occurrence; they are mostly so large when only one in- 

 dividual inhabits the intestine of the Cyclops; more generally there 

 are two, four, eight or more individuals, in which cases they are smaller, 

 and it must be considered as probable that they all came from one 

 specimen, which divided and redivided inside the host. They are, in 

 fact, commonly of the same size in the same Cyclops and, if we have in 

 mind the extraordinary differences that are noticed between the 

 individuals one happens to meet with outside the hosts, we cannot but 

 recognize in this special uniformity in size the result of origin from 

 the same parent organism. 



17 The existence of rudimentary flagella does not seem to have been observed. 

 Alexieeff simply says of his Astasia that it presents a flagellum or has none; 

 and de Beauchamp that "sometimes a flagellum is present, but in most cases 

 it is impossible to find any trace of one." Neither of these authors, however, 

 has seen anything inside the reservoir, and de Beauchamp speaks of the flagellum 

 as taking its origin — when present at all — from the entrance to the buccal tube. 



18 It is not impossible that Pascher considered de Beauchamp's black spot 

 as a rudimentary stigma, for in the diagnosis of that species he says: "Stigma 

 rudimentary, on .the principal vacuole." But de Beauchamp certainly did not 

 see it in this light, as he expressly declares he did not find any trace of a stigma. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



Division is very frequent, and it seems curious that neither Alexi- 

 eeff nor de Beau champ were able to observe it; de Beau champ states 

 that when outside their host, the animals died in a few hours. 

 Moroff (25) , successfully cultivated his Euglena quartana, very nearly 

 related to Astasia, in an organic medium (pea-soup, etc.), and declares 

 that they thrive in purely inorganic cultures, but that after a very 

 little while they perish. 



For my part, I did not find any difficulty in keeping these organ- 

 isms in very good health for three to five and even six days, after 

 isolation in a drop of clear water on an excavated slide and under 

 protection of a cover. 



After creeping for a few hours, one of these big specimens con- 

 tracts into a perfect spherule, and there lies unchanged, for a vari- 

 able time, a whole day for instance; but if after having abandoned 

 the animalcule in the evening we examine our slide early next morn- 

 ing, we find then not one spherule but two, sometimes already four, 

 at 10 o'clock in the morning, those four are dividing again, con- 

 stricted in the middle, at 12 o'clock, eight spherules are present, 

 at 6 o'clock, sixteen are to be seen. On the following morning, the 

 number will be 64, and finally in the evening, after the 8th division, 

 one may count (approximately) as many as 256 small Astasia, 

 some contracted, some elongated and lanceolate, many of them 

 creeping or swimming round a lump of mucilaginous material where 

 most of the individuals are still imbedded. Eight divisions have 

 then successively taken place, after which the primitive single indi- 

 vidual has been turned into 256 little Flagellates. This number, 

 it must be said, must be considered as a maximum, which I never 

 saw exceeded, but have observed to be reached four times in my 

 eight experiments. At other times, however, long before attaining 

 that number the young animalcules begin to detach from the com- 

 mon mass; we should also note that this mass itself is not always 

 homogeneous, but may be very irregular in appearance. It is not 

 a cyst, in fact, just as the little spherules in the mass are not spores; 

 the jelly is more a fugitive secretion, which is easily destroyed, 

 and perhaps it is only on account of the absolute quiescence after 

 isolation on the excavated slide that the common mass remains 

 compact to the end. But, if we take the mass of jelly and carefully 

 compress it under the cover, these little spherules, born from di- 

 vision and destined to divide again, immediately begin to lengthen, 

 creep about, and change their form, just like adults, and this may be 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



made to occur at any of the phases of division, the second, third, 

 fourth, etc. 



The animalcules of the same generation are all alike, and of the 

 same size but after the third (or fourth?) division, they differ from 

 those which came from the first and second (perhaps also the third) 

 division in an important regard : they have, or they may have, a 

 flageJlum. 



In one of these small Flagellates, such as was born from the eighth 

 division (Plate VIII, fig. 61), the vermiform body is very clear and 

 still full of paramylum grains, but these are now very small; just 

 at the posterior extremity two or three larger globules are seen 

 (excretion granules), colorless and highly refractive. The hind- 

 part of the body is itself pointed, sometimes drawn out into a glutin- 

 ous thread-like tail. The nucleus is central, with the character- 

 istic granulations. The contractile vesicle and reservoir are quite 

 as we have already described, and from the bottom of the reservoir 

 are seen to arise two flagella; but while one of these remains in a 

 rudimentary state, just as it was* in the big individuals, the other 

 projects through the buccal tube to the outside, rapidly beating, 

 and trailing the animalcule behind. This flagellum, however, is 

 very slender, and comes off on the least excuse; many of the speci- 

 mens do not have it, either having lost it already or never having 

 possessed it. 



According to Moroff (25), in his diagnosis of Euglena quartana, 

 a very near relative to Astasia, division takes place as follows: 

 "Division after loss of the flagella, either longitudinally into two 

 new individuals, or into four parts after acquiring the globular 

 condition." According to this observer, the second division 19 is 

 at right angles to the first, and seems then to be transverse, the first 

 being longitudinal; but if we keep in mind that all the indications 

 of transverse division in Euglenae have been considered by Klebs 

 and others as very doubtful, we must hesitate in accepting Moroff's 

 statement. It is quite possible that even in the globular condition, 

 after a first division, the two segments insensibly move or displace, 

 and the next division, which is for the observer at right angles to 

 the first, i. e., transverse, is longitudinal in reality. In all circum- 

 stances where I could follow the process in its details, the division 

 proved to be longitudinal; and in some individuals, which though 

 already creeping about were yet in a state of division, one could 



19 Moroff never obtained more than two divisions, that is, four young indi- 

 viduals. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEPHIA. 157 



foresee that the next division would be longitudinal also, this on 

 account of the nucleus, which begins lengthening at right angles 

 to the longitudinal axis of each of the new individuals, even before 

 the separation of the couole is effected (Plate VIII, fig. 60), and 

 which then will be divided along a line parallel to the line of the 

 next division. 



In these young Flagellates, just beginning to divide, the anterior 

 part of the body broadens, and at the same time hollows into a 

 slight concavity, so as to take the form of a heart; the fissure gets 

 deeper and deeper (Plate VIII, fig. 60), and in proportion as it 

 lengthens downward, the lobes of the heart-shaped body become 

 more and more separated, moving in a respectively right and left 

 direction, with the result that at the moment the fissure reaches 

 the end of the body, the lobes, or new individuals, have each of 

 them turned 90 degrees, and lie with their posterior ends united 

 only by a narrow bridge, the ultimate phase of the division, cutting 

 right through the bridge, will then appear to be transverse, while 

 in reality the division has been longitudinal. But this very narrow 

 bridge, which at last consists only of the very tough periplast sub- 

 stance, is not easy to break, the animalcule, or rather now both, 

 animalcules, struggle right or left, stretch and retract alternately, 

 and above all, twist and turn on their longitudinal axis as they 

 lie tail to tail; one of them, sometimes, is seen to twist to the left 

 while the other twists to the right (in fact each twists toward its 

 own right side), and at last the separating bridge, very thin and 

 contorted to the utmost, breaks and liberates the two young Flagel- 

 lates. The little Astasia is now free, and creeps or swims about 

 with an activity more remarkable than that observed in the adult 

 condition, no difference, however, is to be seen between those very 

 young individuals and the old ones, except, as already said, in the 

 normal possession of a flagellum. 



Speaking of his Euglena quartana, a colorless species also, Moroff 

 (25, p. 102) writes as follows: "I succeeded in obtaining individuals 

 which showed with some distinctness a stigma. At the beginning 

 none of the animals showed any trace of such an organ; but after 

 a few weeks I was able to obtain some, in which the eye was apparent 

 as a very small yellow spot, later on it had acquired an orange hue 

 and looked larger, but later still the eye remained in the same con- 

 dition, without my obtaining any further results." 



Astasia mobilis never shows any stigma, yet I found once, not 

 in a Cyclops but in a watch-glass where some Cyclops had been 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



isolated, an Astasia (or Euglenaf) seeming identical, at first sight, 

 with the habitual parasite, but its paramylum grains were of a 

 more distinctly greenish hue, and besides a small red stigma could 

 be detected distinctly. On another occasion, I got from the in- 

 testine of a Cyclops an Astasia in which two small red eyes existed, 

 one to the right and the other to the left on the anterior part of the 

 body. This specimen, it must be added, was relatively broad and 

 short, and perhaps not far from dividing. 



That these two individuals belonged to Astasia mobilis is not 

 certain. Alexieeff observes that in the Euglena group "transitional 

 forms are found which lead from facultative to definitive para- 

 sitisms." Must Astasia mobilis be considered as a Euglena whose 

 evolution terminated in parasitism, and in which individuals may 

 be found, which retain some ancestral characters? 



Euglena pseudomennis sp. n. Plate VIII, figures 62, 63. 



This elegant little Euglena, which looks at first sight so much like a 

 Nematode that one sometimes mistakes it for one, was found in 

 two different localities, Pinchat and Rouelbeau, in every season of 

 the year but always very rare. 



The form is that of a needle (Plate VIII, fig. 62), 20 very straight, 

 165 to 190[jl in length for only 734 to 8^ in breadth, and it is quite 

 near the anterior part of the body, on a level with the contractile 

 vesicle, that the maximal breadth is found; from this region it di- 

 minishes in width by insensible gradation to the posterior extremity, 

 whose thinness is quite extraordinary. Owing to a slight lateral 

 compression, a transverse section of the needle would give a broadly 

 elliptical figure. Seen along the narrower of the sides, it shows a 

 characteristic swelling (Plate VIII, fig. 62), coinciding with the 

 dilatation of the internal reservoir. The periplast looks shining 

 and smooth, but in reality proves longitudinally striated, but the 

 striae are so delicate and thin that only in very favorable conditions 

 can their reality be ascertained. At the anterior end (Plate VIII, 

 fig. 63), which is somewhat expanded, and in optical section appears 

 to be provided with two tips, the periplast curves and invaginates 

 towards the interior, but for a short distance only, and from this 

 point is continued as a simply plasmatic film which lines the reser- 

 voir. 



This characteristic pouch or reservoir, very long, broad and 

 rounded at the base, becomes narrower towards the top, and at 

 last joins the buccal opening. Into the hind part of the reservoir, 

 and on one of its sides, empties at regular times the contractile 

 vacuole, which is sometimes surrounded by very small accessory 

 vesicles. A short flagellum is seen arising from the buccal funnel, 



20 In the figure, the animalcule is represented too broad relatively to its length. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



a little behind the opening; it looks as if held in place by a basal 

 granule, and at the same time appears to be lengthened posteriorly, 

 like a hardly visible tracing, until it reaches a very distinct swelling 

 about level with the middle of the reservoir. This swelling is caused 

 by the presence, just outside the wall of the reservoir, of a large and 

 very distinct globule, or kinetonucleus. Opposite the kinetonucleus, 

 and on the other side of the reservoir, is the stigma, of a delicate 

 brick-red tint; its form is that of a saucer, and seen from the side 

 looks like a crescent whose convexity is turned towards the reser- 

 voir. Viewed from the dorsal side, it is seen to be a small roundish 

 spot. In the immediate vicinity are sometimes seen very small 

 red particles, which later on will join the principal mass. The in- 

 ternal protoplasm, very clear, and with myriads of extremely fine 

 granules, is in its major portion occupied by a more or less con- 

 siderable number of rod-like elements, which look like chromato- 

 phores, but without color. These are needle-shaped, of a very 

 pure opalescent hue, generally 25 to 30[x in length for only 2 or 3jx 

 in breadth, and often even much thinner, especially those which 

 fill the posterior end of the body. They are set longitudinally, 

 imbricating upon each other, and lie along the whole length of the 

 body. They seem, in fact, to take the place of absent chromato- 

 phores, and if we keep in mind the statements of several observers 

 that green chromatophores are susceptible, under certain influences, 21 

 of being reduced to the state of leucoplasts, it seems that in our 

 Euglena pseudomermis also we are entitled to think of the struc- 

 tures as leucoplasts rather than as paramylum bodies or any other 

 sort of pyrenoid. We might then consider this species as one of 

 those very rare green Flagellates, which have lost their colored 

 constituents, but which still keep the stigma, but only as a vestige 

 of a preceding state. 



Is this species, although deprived of true chromatophores, still 

 absolutely holophytic, or would it to a certain extent take food 

 from the outside in the form of microbes or particles of some other 

 form? I have found in several instances small vegetal particles 

 in the reservoir, and also inside the body protoplasm some small 

 vacuoles have been met with, which contained little granules, like 

 food-vacuoles in fact, but the explanation might be different, and 

 the subject remains still obscure. 



About in the middle of the body is seen the nucleus, whose appear- 

 ance is most peculiar. It is generally found as a spherule, sur- 

 rounded by a clear halo of lighter material, but this nucleus proper 



21 Light would be the more important agent. According to Zumstein (1900) 

 the chromatophores disappear as such in the dark, but persist as leucoplasts, 

 and reform into chloroplasts again if brought back into the light. Euglena 

 pseudomermis was always collected with a small net dipped into the black mud 

 of the bottom of the ditch; it is quite possible that it lives in semi-darkness 

 inside that "organic felt" which is found carpeting the ground. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



is itself a constituent part of a long, pale, grayish rod-like mass, 

 which stains red with carmine, but much less easily than does the 

 spherical nucleus. Sometimes, there are two of these cylindrical 

 masses, with the nucleus in one of them only, or the cylindrical 

 mass may contain, not one nucleus in its center (as is most gener- 

 ally the case, (Plate VIII, fig. 63), but several, regularly disposed, 

 for instance three at equal distances, or four in two groups which 

 are separated by a longer interval (Plate VIII, fig. 62). 



Euglena pseudomermis slowly progresses forward in a straight 

 line, then suddenly stops, and takes up its course again, slightly 

 shaken by the beating of the flagellum. The little moving needle 

 looks rigid, not deformable, but is not so in fact; from time to time 

 it is seen to curve feebly, or become deformed by longitudinal un- 

 dulations, very weak indeed but adding in a remarkable manner 

 to the resemblance to a small Nematode. 



The only two Euglenae which I could find in literature to have 

 any similarity to Euglena pseudomermis are Eugl. acus Ehrenberg 

 and Eugl. acutissima Lemmermann. But both are relatively much 

 less lengthened, fusiform rather than like real needles; and besides, 

 they have characteristic green chromatophores. I long hesitated 

 as to the genus to which this little Flagellate might belong. Menoi- 

 dium differs from Euglena in the complete absence of chromato- 

 phores. Would it have been better to make a Menoidium of this 

 species? 



Trentonia flagellate Stokes. Plate VIII, figs. 64r-67 a, b. 



In the analytical table which concerns the group of the Chloro- 

 monadinae, as given by Pascher (27, p. 177), the subdivision of the 

 colored forms is into three genera, which are distinguished from 

 each other as follows: 



I. No highly refractive trichocyst-like corpuscles in the peripheral 

 plasma layer. 



A. Cells changeable in form, more or less pyriform, narrower 



at the anterior end. Vacuolaria. 



B. Cells less changeable in form; at the anterior end diagonally 



truncate, long and narrowed posteriorly. Trentonia. 



II. In the peripheral plasma, highly refracting trichocyst-like cor- 

 puscles. Gonyostomum. 



Vacuolaria would then differ from Trentonia only in having a 

 more pronounced change of form, and also by some difference in 

 shape, the narrower part being anterior whilst in Trentonia it is 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



posterior. As far as I could observe, there is no importance in the 

 first of these distinctive characters, the changes of form in Tren- 

 tonia being much greater than is generally thought, and as for the 

 general shape of the body, if Cienkowsky's Vacuolaria virescens 

 proves to be in accordance with the above-mentioned diagnosis, 

 Senn's Vacuolaria viridis, which according to Pascher is intermediary- 

 between Trentonia and Vacuolaria, is in fact like Trentonia being 

 described as inversely pyriform (verkehrt birnformig), rapidly nar- 

 rowed at the tail-like posterior end, strongly broadened and ex- 

 cavated anteriorly. On the same page 177, Pascher adds a note: 

 "We must probably reunite with Vacuolaria Stein's Coelomonas, 

 which differs from the former only in the possession of a single 

 flagellum. The second flagellum, which lies very close to the body, 

 probably escaped Stein's attention." 



As for Gonyostomum, or more especially Diesing's Gonyostomum 

 semen which is synonymous with Ehrenberg's Rhaphidomonas 

 semen, it is nothing but a Trentonia again, but one in which are found, 

 under the periplast, small highly refracting rod-like bodies which 

 at times develop as cilia. Speaking of Rhaphidomonas, S. Kent 

 (20) writes as follows: "Excepting for the presence of numerous and 

 variously distributed trichocysts it closely resembles Coelomonas," 

 and Stokes (34) says of his Trentonia flagellata: "This is very simi- 

 lar to Rhaphidomonas semen (Ehrbg.) Stein, with two flagella and 

 no apparent trichocysts. When first observed it was without hesi- 

 tation identified with the above-mentioned European form." In 

 the classical treatise of Engler & Prantl (12), one reads, page 171, 

 concerning Coelomonas: "Doubtful genus. Like Vacuolaria, but 

 with only one flagellum. Stein has probably missed the second 

 flagellum. . . . The genus Coelomonas Stein must also very 

 likely be abandoned." 



Between all these Flagellates, Vacuolaria viridis, Coelomonas 

 grandis, Trentonia flagellata, and even Goniostomum semen, the 

 differences are so obscure, the general form of the body, the tri- 

 angular reservoir, the chromatophores — everything, in fact, is so 

 identical, that it is difficult to fancy anything but one and the 

 same organism; in Coelomonas, the second flagellum, which in Tren- 

 tonia is at the very limit of visibility, might not have been detected ; 

 in Rhapidomonas, the trichocysts have been exaggerated in their 

 appearance. However it may be, it is as Trentonia flagellata Stokes 

 (33), undoubtedly identical with what I have seen myself, that I 

 shall consider the curious Flagellate we now come to speak of. It 




162 PROCEEDINVS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



was found, rather numerous, in two different localities: Pinchat, 

 where I found it in every season of the year, and Rouelbeau, where 

 it was seen on one occasion only. 



The most striking quality of this Flagellate is perhaps found 

 in its special coloration, a beautiful bright green, which invests 

 the whole body, and at once distinguishes it from the many other 

 colored organisms that are swimming about. It is the pure green 

 of chlorophyll, such as is found in the spherical granules of the 

 higher plants, being without admixture of blue or brown. 



The body (Plate VIII, fig. 64), measuring 40, 50, and up to Q0[i 

 and more, is in the form of a fish, two to three times as long as broad, 

 somewhat compressed laterally, broader at the anterior end, nar- 

 rower posteriorly, and often terminating in a point. The form 

 of the whole body is slightly changeable, subject to alteration here 

 or there, becoming now and then contorted or even excavated, 

 but coming after a time to its original shape. The little green 

 organism goes straight on its way, with a single flagellum visible, 

 which is thin and straight, about as long as the body, and which 

 hardly seems to move. From time to time, a sudden advance or 

 leap is noticed, somewhat as in Cryptomonas but to a much shorter 

 distance, and not always backwards but forwards just as well. 

 To get an adequate understanding of the intimate structure of 

 Trentonia, it is necessary to have recourse to compression, gentle, 

 weak enough not to deform the body to more than a moderate de- 

 gree, and yet strong enough to stop its movements (Plate VIII, 

 fig. 65). The result required is, however, easily obtained, as the 

 periplast is absent (or rather represented by a very thin hardened 

 pellicula) and nothing prevents the body expanding. The body, 

 in fact, may be considered as naked, so much so that with a stronger 

 compression the animalcule is seen to transform into the shape of 

 an Amoeba, displaying lobes or even extending into pseudopodia. 

 Inside the very thin surface pellicle is a rather thick layer of very 

 pure ectoplasm, of a peculiar appearance, opalescent and shining, 

 and in it are seen dispersed a number of very small light vesicle, 

 or vacuoles, which seem to be provided with a distinct wall. But 

 in that external opalescent layer other elements are found, tiny 

 spherical granules, very clear and brilliant, which often are seen 

 to protrude over the surface of the pellicula, sometimes even in 

 the shape of short setae. 22 They must probably be considered 

 as trichocysts, the very structures which are represented by Stein 

 in Rhaphidomonas semen as rod-like in form, but in the present 

 species globular. Inside this ectoplasmic layer are the chromato- 



22 In an animalcule that had been much compressed, along its longitudinal 

 axis (Plate VIII, fig. 66), without any addition of a reagent, the whole surface 

 was seen surrounded by very short radial filaments, which must have resulted 

 from tho. exploding of these tiny bodies. 




1921] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



phores. They consist entirely of small fusiform bodies, regularly 

 disposed in two or three superimposed layers, with their long axes 

 in a line parallel to the surface of the body. They are very delicate, 

 and when compressed become rounded, showing at the same time 

 a central lighter region. All together, these fusiform corpuscles 

 make up a thick envelope, limiting a large clearer endoplasm, color- 

 less, half-liquid in appearance, which contains the nucleus. This 

 latter, very pale, consists of a homogeneous grayish plasma, with 

 here and there a few very small nucleoles. At the anterior end of 

 this colorless endoplasm, a large triangular space appears, the char- 

 acteristic reservoir, into which from time to time is seen to empty 

 the adjacent contractile vesicle; the reservoir itself communicates 

 with the outside by means of a narrow channel, which opens not 

 quite at the anterior extremity, but somewhat laterally. 



Of the two flagella, only one of them, the locomotor flagellum, 

 can usually be detected. Both, however, have their origin in the 

 small depression where the channel of the reservoir opens, and, 

 so far as I could observe, start from the same spot, a little 

 within the opening and on the ventral side of the tube. Stokes 

 describes the locomotor flagellum as "apparently originating in the 

 oval fossa; the other taking its origin on the ventral or lower sur- 

 face a short distance behind the anterior extremity, and usually 

 trailing, but I should not be surprised if there was a mistake in 

 this statement. Further on the American observer continues: 

 "The trailing flagellum is ordinarily extremely difficult to see. 

 When the Infusorian is rendered uncomfortable and sluggish by 

 prolonged confinement beneath the cover, or partially poisoned by 

 iodine, then the vibratile flagellum, which is usually held stiffly 

 in advance, the tip alone trembling, is flashed into sight as a rapidly 

 undulating spiral, and the trailing appendage is also momentarily 

 directed forward. . . . It is scarcely possible to believe that 

 Stein would have failed to notice so important an appendage." 

 My own observations entirely confirm Stokes's statements; but as 

 for a mistake by Stein, I regard it indeed as quite possible. The 

 trailing flagellum is so extraordinarily thin, and its refracting 

 properties are so much like that of water, that it is only detected 

 with the utmost difficulty. I studied Trentonia for many days 

 without noticing any second flagellum, which, however, was there; 

 afterwards, I was able to see it on many occasions. Some of my 

 observations seem to prove that when the animalcule is at rest, 

 the accessory flagellum lies stretched behind, and adheres with its 

 tip to the substratum, keeping the body in place. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



When describing the thick layer of opalescent ectoplasm which 

 surrounds the body, I mentioned but two kinds of included ele- 

 ments, the tiny trichocysts and the small round vesicles; but we 

 must now consider a new sort of inclusions. They are spherules, 

 2(x in diameter, of a very pale and pure bluish hue, and though 

 extremely numerous, generally escape any notice, or rather are 

 ascertained only after compression of the body; and the greater 

 the compression the more numerous they are seen to be, they are 

 in such numbers, in fact, that they seem to make up the whole of 

 the plasma. 



Singly examined (Plate VIII, fig. 67a), they are seen to possess 

 a distinct membrane, very thin and smooth but suddenly, after a 

 few seconds of observation, the membrane happens' to burst, and 

 through the opening expands a voluminous mass of mucilaginous 

 material, mingled with a number of extraordinarily fine dust-like 

 particles (Plate VIII, fig. 67). These globules, in fact, must be 

 considered as quite a special form of trichocysts, the "Schleim- 

 trichocysten" of German authors. But during all the time that 

 the gradual compression of the animalcule is continued, there are 

 seen to take place inside the compressed plasma small commo- 

 tions, sudden disturbances of equilibrium, explanation of which 

 is difficult to determine; but if India ink is used, the most external 

 of the spherules, which are easily examined singly, are seen to eject 

 a little white cloud when bursting, at the same time that a slight 

 commotion is noticed in the adjacent lining ectoplasm; all these 

 successive commotions that we saw occurring inside the animalcule 

 must then also have their cause in exploding internal trichocysts. 



India ink experiments enable us to observe still more curious 

 phenomena: if the black current is made to touch an animalcule 

 which is in perfect health, and is moving freely under the cover 

 glass, the organism is seen to throw out here and there, now back- 

 wards, now forwards, or on one side, these same wh te little clouds 

 which we observed before, and at each of these characteristic ex- 

 plosions, the animalcule leaps backward or forward or to one side. 

 It is, indeed, a very interesting thing to follow one of these little 

 animals while swimming at full speed, discharging without inter- 

 mission its projectiles, like a man-of-war that would bombard the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



enemy. To these successive explosions we must attribute the char- 

 acteristic leaps in Trentonia™ 



I must mention, before concluding, the existence of gelatinous 

 cysts, which I found numerous at Pinchat, in the month of May. 

 They are very similar to those of Cryptomonas ovata, and contain 

 either one single individual, or very often two, longitudinally applied 

 to each other, undoubtedly a result of division. Sometimes, in- 

 stead of two individuals, four are found, or two couples, one to the 

 right and the other to the left inside the gelatinous cyst, which 

 would certainly indicate a second division. 



Bibliography. 



1. Alexieeff, A. Le Parasitisme des Eugleniens et la Phylog nie des Sporozo- 



aires. Arch, de Zool. exper. et gen. Notes et revue, Ser. 5, torn. 10. 1912. 



2. Beauchamp, P. de. Astasia captiva n. sp., Euglenien parasite de Catenvla 



lemnae. Ibid., Notes et revue, torn. 6. 1911. 



3. Blochmann, F. Zur Kenntniss von Dimorpha mutans. Biol. Centralbl., 



Bd. 14. 1894. 



4. Belar, K. Protozoenstudien — II. Arch. f. Protistenk., Bd. 36. 1916. 



5. Berliner, E. Flagellaten-Studien. Ibid., Bd. 15. 1909. 



6. Burck, C. Studien liber einige Choanofiagellaten. Ibid., Bd. 16. 1909. 



7. Bctschli, O. Mastigophoren. In Bronn's Thierreich. Bd. 1. 1883. 



8. Conrad, W. Contributions a I 'etude des Flagellates. Arch. f. Protistenk. 



Bd. 34. 1914. 



9. Delage et Herouard. Traite de Zoologie concrete. Tom. 1. La Cellule 



et les Protozoaires. 1896. 



10. Dunkerly, J. S. Flagellata and Ciliata, Clare Island Survey. In Proceed. 



Royal Irish Acad., parts 61-62. 1913. 



11. Ehrenberg. Infusionsthierchen als vollkommene Organismen. Berlin, 



1838. 



12. Engler and Prantl. Natiirliche Pflanzenfamilien. Bd. 2. 1900. 



13. Franza, C. La flagellose des Euphorbes. Arch. f. Protistenk. Bd. 34. 



1914. 



14. Gruber, A. Dimorpha mutans, eine Mischforma von Flagellaten und Helio- 



zoon. Zeitsch. f. wiss. Zool. Bd. 36. 1881. 



15. Hartman and Jollos. Die Flagellatenordnung Binucleata. Arch. f. Pro- 



tistenk. Bd. 19. 1910. 



16. Hartog, M. The Cambridge Natural History. Vol. 1. Flagellata. 1906. 



17. Hofeneder, H. Ueber eine neue Koloniebildende Chrysomonadine. Arch. 



f. Protistenk. Bd. 29. 1913. 



18. Imhof, O. E. Das Flagellatengenus Dinobryon. Zool. Anzeiger. Bd. 13. 



1890. 



19. Iwanoff, L. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Morphologie und Systematik der 



Chrysomonaden. Bullet, de l'Acad. imp. des Sci. de St. P6tersbourg. 

 Ser. 5, torn. 41. 1899. 



20. Kent, S. A Manual of the Infusoria. 1880-82. 



21. Klebs, G. Flagellaten-Studien— I, II. Zeitsch. f. wiss. Zool. Bd. 55. 1892. 



22. Lang, A. Handbuch der Morphologie der wirbellosen Thiere. 3e. Aufl. 



1913. 



23 When discussing Cryptomonas ovata, we had recourse to the trichocyst 

 t heory for explaining the sudden backward jumps, and the facts here obtained 

 may be of considerable value as indicating greater probability in the former 

 suggestion. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



23. Lauterborn, R. Protozoenstudien — IV. Flagellaten aus dem Gebiete des 



Oberrheins. Zeitsch. f. wiss. Zool. Bd. 65. 1899. 



24. Lemmermann, E. Notizen tiber einige Flagellaten. Arch. f. Hydrobiol. 



d Planktonkunde. Bd. 8. 1912-13. 



25. Moroff, T. Beitrag zur Kenntniss einiger Flagellaten. Arch, f . Protistenk. 



Bd. 3. 1903. 



26. Pascher, A. Rhizopoden und Palmellastadien bei Flagellaten. Ibid. Bd. 



25. 1912. 



27. Pascher, A. Siisswasserflora Deutschlands, Oesterreichs und der Schweiz. 



Jena, 1913-14. 



28. Penard, E. Ueber einige neue oder wenig bekannte Protozoen. Jahrb. 



Nassauischer Vereins f. Naturkunde. Bd. 43. 1890. 



29. Scherffel, A. Kleiner Beitrag zur Phylogenie einiger Gruppen niederer 



Organismen. Botan. Zeitung. 1901. 



30. Scherffel, A. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Chrysomonadinen. Arch. f. Pro. 



tistenk. Bd. 22. 1911. 



31. Schouteden, H. Notes sur quelques Flagellees. Ibid. . Bd. 9. 1907. 



32. Stein, F. von. Organismus der Infusionsthiere. 1878. 



33. Stokes, A. A preliminary contribution toward a history of the freshwater 



Infusoria of the United States. Journ. of the Trenton Nat. Hist. Soc. 

 Vol. I. 1888. 



34. Stokes, A. Notices of new freshwater Infusoria. Proceed, of the Amer. 



Philos. Soc. Vol. 28. 1890. 



35. Voigt, M. Beitrage zur Kenntniss des Planktons Pommerscher Seen, Th. 



IV. Forschungsber. Plon. Th. 9. 1902. 



Explanation of Plates V, VI, VII, VIII. 



Plate V. — Figs. 1-3. — Pteridomonas scherffeli. 



1. Normal aspect; at the left side, captured food; at the lower end, the 

 posterior crown of pearls. 



2. Another specimen, with some " flagellopodia" vibrating. 



3. Another, in course of division. 



[Note — The flagella of the above figures have been strengthened 

 slightly to insure reproduction. — Editor.] 

 Figs. 4-6. — Dimorpha tetramastix. 



4. Heliozoan state. 



5. Flagellate state. 



6. Flagellate state, with some trailing pseudopodia. 

 Figs. 7-8. — Dimorpha monomastix. 



7. Heliozoan state. 



8. Flagellate state. 

 Figs. 9-13. — Bicoeca exilis. 



9. Typical appearance. 



10. Another individual, seen from the side. 



11. Disposition of the fiagellum in the enrolled state. 



12. An animalcule retracted in the capsule, and about to throw off its 

 fiagellum. 



13. Swimming form. 



Plate VI. — Figs. 14-19: — Histiona campanula. 



14. Typical form. 



15. Another specimen, seen from another viewpoint. 



16. Extremity of the trunk-like appendage. 



17. Swimming form, with anterior fiagellum undulating. 



18. Another individual, with posterior fiagellum vibrating. 



19. An animalcule in successive stages of the act of attaching after swim- 

 ming. 



Figs. 20-28. — Salpingoeca polygonatum. 



20. Normal aspect. 



21. Division, nearly completed. 



22. The flagellated animalcule, as it comes from division. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



23. An animalcule swelling up to construct the capsule. 



24. a to g, a young individual, resting on the mucilaginous substratum, 

 then straightening, pushing down a pedicle and beginning the con- 

 struction of the capsule. 



25. a, unequal division; b, the small flagellate which comes from the un- 

 equal division. 



26. Encystment; the cyst is complete, except at the anterior extremity, 

 where the protoplasmic collar and the flagellum are seen expanded. 



27. Another cyst, entirely closed. 



28. Another form of encystment, in a balloon-like capsule. 

 Plate VI. — Figs. 29-33. — Salpingoeca lepidula. 



29. Typical form. 



30. Division; the young animalcule sliding down the old capsule. 



31. The same animalcule, ^ minute later; nearly reaching the substratum. 



32. A young animalcule attaching. 



33. Construction of the capsule; above to the left is shown a large microbe 

 which fell upon the neck, then slowly glided along the ectoplasm and 

 stopped opposite the contractile vacuole. 



Plate VII. — Figs. 34-40. — Salpingoeca lepidula. 



34. Swimming form of the animalcule, after abandoning the capsule. 



35. An individual completing the construction of the capsule; the primi- 

 tive fixation thread is still to be seen. 



36. An animalcule, whose ectoplasm is expanding in filamentous pseudo- 

 podia. 



37. Thickening of the protoplasmic collar, by means of intruding ecto- 

 plasmic material. 



38. The same, a few minutes later. 



39. Another specimen, with ectoplasmic material climbing up along both 

 the collar and the flagellum. 



40. An individual with a sheet of ectoplasm, climbing up along the inner 

 surface of the collar. 



Figs. 41-44. — Chrysamoeba radians. 



41. The Amoeba state. 



42. A flagellate, about to revert to the Amoeba state. 



43. Flagellate state. 



44. Division. In a, the division is as yet but little advanced; the two 

 V-shaped chromatophores, together forminga W,are seen in the middle; 

 to the left, a large mass of leucosine. In b, the body has lengthened; 

 in c, it begins to be distinctly narrower in the middle; the leucosine 

 mass has lengthened ; the large vacuole is larger still ; in c, the leucosine 

 body is already rod-like in form; in d, the large vacuole has burst. 

 In e, the separation is nearly effected; half of the leucosine body passes 

 to each of the new individuals. In /, the new individuals are sepa- 

 rated. 



Figs. 45-49. — Chrysopyxis bipes. 



45. Normal appearance. 



46. Special form, without tubular opening; the body is in process of di- 

 vision; one pseudopod only, down which microbes are gliding. 



47. An animalcule about to leave the capsule. 



48. The same, swimming about after leaving the capsule. 



49. No tubular opening. At the base of the psudopodia, an accumula- 

 tion of microbes, about to disappear into the common trunk. 



Plate VIII. — Figs. 50-54. — Hyalobryon ramosum. 



50. Normal aspect of the animalcule, with its caudal adhesive filament 

 (which is represented too short, as well as the enveloping tube also). 



51. A bunch of empty tubes, straight. 



52. A bunch of empty tubes, contorted. 



53. Tubes in a fascicle, attached to a diatom. 



54. Several tubes inserted one within the other. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART I 



Figs. 55-57. — Cryptomonas ovata. 



55. Normal appearance, with starch grains lining the chromatophores, 

 and on the left the characteristic crystalloid bodies. 



56. A very young specimen, ovate. 



57. The "curvata" form, without starch or crystalloid bodies; on the right, 

 near the pharyngeal fossa, is the kinetonucleus. 



Figs. 58-61. — Astasia mobilis. 



58. One of the large specimens. At the anterior end, the reservoir, with 

 the two rudimentary flagella, and beside it, the contractile vacuole. 



59. Nucleus. 



60. Division. 



61. A very young, flagellated individual. 

 Figs. 62, 63. — Euglena pseudomermis. 



62. The animalcule seen from the side (represented too broad, relatively 

 to the length). 



63. Details of the anterior portion. Reservoir and kinetonucleus; to the 

 right, the stigma; lower down, the contractile vesicle. Inside the 

 plasma, leucoplasts, and the nucleus with its two cylindrical prolonga- 

 tions. 



Figs. 64-67. — Trentonia flagellata. 



64. Normal appearance. 



65. Compressed body. 



66. An animalcule, which was compressed along the longitudinal axis, 

 showing radial setae (exploded trichocysts). 



67. a. A mucilage-bearing spherule, in a small protoplasmic vesicle. 

 67, b. Exploded spherule, with a mucilaginous granular cloud. 






PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE V. 



PENARD: NOTES ON FLAGELLATA. 





.♦ 



PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE VI. 



PENARD: NOTES ON FLAGELLATA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE VII. 



i):-TO 



44 a 



44 \j 





44 c 



44d 



44e 



43 



44f 



46 



47 



PBNARD : NOTES ON FLAGELLATA. 





V 



ROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE VIII. 



62 



63 



66 



67 



PBNARD: NOTES ON FLAGELLATA. 







DESILICATED GRANITIC PEGMATITES 1 . 

 BY SAMUEL G. GORDON. 



The granitic pegmatites are among the most interesting mineral 

 assemblages known to the mineralogist, containing as they frequent- 

 ly do so many rare minerals. The present paper describes an ab- 

 normal group of granitic pegmatites, composed either of plagioclase, 

 usually albite, alone (albitite); of plagioclase and corundum (plu- 

 masite); or largely of corundum; all of which occur exclusively in 

 peridotites or their altered equivalents. The conclusion has been 

 reached that they owe their peculiarities to the reactions which oc- 

 curred between the original pegmatitic solutions and the peridotite 

 or serpentine into which these solutions were intruded. Such an 

 origin has been demonstrated for the plumasite of South Africa by 

 Du Toit 2 ; a study of the albitites of Pennsylvania and Mary- 

 land indicates a similar genetic history ; and the corundum deposits 

 of Pelham and Chester, Massachusetts, of western North Carolina, 

 and of Georgia present analogies which show them to belong in this 

 group. 



Previous Work. 

 Albitite. 



California : The name albitite was given by Turner 3 in 1896 to 

 an albite rock occuring as dikes in serpentine in the Grizzly Hill area, 

 about Meadow Valley, and near Big Bar Hill, Plumas County, 

 California. The albitite dikes were composed of large grains of 

 albite with marked cleavage, and showing occasionally a twin 

 lamella. 



Previous to this, Palache 4 had described a soda amphibole (cros- 



1 The writer is indebted to Dr. Edgar T. Wherry and Dr. N. L. Bowen for a 

 critical examination of this paper. The Pennsylvania and Maryland albitite 

 were studied during the summer of 1920. An account of the minerals of the 

 district will appear shortly in The American Mineralogist, and a description of 

 the chromite deposits in a later paper in the Proceedings of this Academy. 



2 Trans. Geol. Soc. S. Africa, 21: 53-73, 1919 (see abstract below). 



3 Am. Geol. 17: 375-388, 1896; Fourteenth Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., 1892- 

 93, (1894) 477; U. S. Geol. Surv. Folio 43, 1898. 



4 Charles Palache, Univ. of Calif. Publ., Dept. Geol., Bull. 1: 181-192, 

 1894. 



(169) 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



site) from a large boulder of white saccharoidal albite which was 

 found in the bed of a stream at the foot of the Sierras near Berkeley. 

 The boulder contained also veins of actinolite. 



France: In 1900, Lacroix noted the occurrence of albitite dikes 

 in the peridotites of Bellongue (Ariege), France, consisting essenti- 

 ally of albite-oligoclase. 6 



Ural Mountains: Duparc and Pamfil have described albitite 

 from Koswinsky, in the northern Ural Mountains, where it forms 

 aplitic dikes in dunite. 6 As in the case of the California and French 

 occurrences no data was given as to the relation of the albitite to 

 the country rock, beyond the fact that it formed intrusives in ser- 

 pentine or peridotite. 



The Russian albitite is associated with a series of related rocks 

 which have been named granulite, gladkaite and plagiaplite. 



The granulite is a rock composed essentially of quartz, andesine, 

 and biotite, forming veins in the dunite of Koswinsky. 



Gladkaite is a fine grained aplite composed of oligoclase and an- 

 desine, with much quartz, some hornblende and biotite, and secon- 

 dary muscovite and epidote. It forms dikes in the dunite at Glad- 

 kai Sopka, and Kamenouchky.* 



Plagiaplite is an equigranular aplite composed of oligoclase or 

 andesine, with variable amounts of quartz and hornblende, and 

 subordinate muscovite or biotite. This rock forms dikes in the 

 pyroxenites of Koswinsky and Kamenouchky. 



This series may represent granitic pegmatites which differ in the 

 degree of desilication which they have undergone. Analyses of 

 them are given by Duparc and Pamfil. 



The occurrence of albitic dikes in the serpentines of New South 

 Wales was noted by Benson 7 who considered them as being geneti- 

 cally related to the peridotites. 



Plumasite. 



California: The name plumasite was given by Lawson to an 

 oligoclase-corundum rock forming a fifteen foot dike in a serpentin- 

 ized peridotite on the lower flank of Spanish Peak, Bidwell Bar 

 quadrangle, Plumas County, California. 8 



8 Alfred Lacroix, Comptes Rendus du VIII Congres International de Geologie, 

 1900: 806-838, Paris, 1901. 



6 Bull. Soc. Franc. Min., 33: 347-375, 1910. 



7 Proc. Linn. Soc. New South Wales, 38: 691, 1913; Am. J. Sci., (4) 46: 715, 

 1918. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 171 



The plumasite is a coarse allotriomorphic granular aggregate of 

 white oligoclase (Ab 6 An 2 ) in which are imbedded pale violet blue 

 idiomorphic crystals of corundum. Scaly films of margarite occur 

 in fractures in the corundum. One hundred feet northwest. of 

 the corundiferous portion of the dike, the rock consists of coarse 

 granular plagioclase without corundum, but with occasional nests 

 of a grayish-green fibrous monoclinic amphibole. Twenty-five 

 feet southeast of the corundiferous portion, the dike consists of 

 microcrystalline and porphyritic andesine. An analysis of the oli- 

 goclase is given below. 



Italy: In 1903, Lacroix 9 called attention to the occurrence of 

 plumasite near Mosso Santa Maria, Biella, Italy, from which Gon- 

 nard 10 had described corundum crystals. An analysis of the oligo- 

 clase is given below. 



New Caledonia: Subsequently, Romeu 11 noted the occurrence 

 of plumasite in New Caledonia. 



Transvaal: The Transvaal corundum deposits have been des- 

 cribed by Wagner. 12 South Africa is the leading corundum-pro- 

 ducing country at present, the greater part coming from the Zout- 

 spansberg and Pietersburg districts of the Transvaal. Most of the 

 corundum recovered occurs as alluvial crystals or fragments and 

 boulders. The source of the material was found to be a plumasite 

 composed essentially of andesine, (Ab 5 5An 46 ), greenish biotite 

 and corundum. The corundum occurs in crystals up to 6 inches 

 in length scattered through the plumasite, which, however, may 

 consist wholly of andesine. 



Natal: In 1919, Du Toit 13 described the plumasite of Natal, 

 with details concerning its relation to the country rock, and mode 

 of origin. 



The Natal plumasite forms dikes in the serpentine bodies of the 

 Tugela Valley. The area is underlain by hornblende-schists, 

 granulites, and basic gneisses, riddled with dikes and veins of peg- 

 matite and aplite. In this complex are sills of serpentine., a light 

 gray to dark green fine grained rock composed almost entirely of 

 antigorite, with occasional plates of talc and black particles of 



"Univ. of Calif. Publ., Dept. Geol., Bull. 3: 219-229, 1903. 



9 Bull. Soc. Franc. Min., 26: 147-150, 1903. 



10 Bull. S^c. Franc. Min., 20: 177-181, 1897. 

 "Bull. Mus. d'Hist. Nat., 12: 594-596, 1906. 

 u Trans. Geol. Soc. S. Africa, 21: 37-42, 1919. 

 "Trans. Geol. Soc. S. Africa, 21: 53-73, 1919. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



magnetite and chromite. Microscopic study indicates that the 

 original rock was a saxonite composed of predominant enstatite or 

 bronzite. 



The plumasite dikes are very irregular in thickness and direction, 

 and are composed of white granular oligoclase on the margins; to- 

 wards the center corundum makes its appearance with silvery white 

 margarite ; in places corundum and margarite may occur to the ex- 

 clusion of the oligoclase. The composition of the plumasite veins 

 varies considerably, in some places being entirely feldspathic, and 

 elsewhere quite rich in corundum. The oligoclase forms granular 

 aggregates, only one third of which exhibits repeated twinning, 

 although the bulk of the remainder possesses a higher index of re- 

 fraction than balsam. The corundum forms dark gray, grayish 

 green or bluish crystals, which are frequently sheathed by a thin 

 shell of primary margarite. At times secondary margarite pene- 

 trates the basal cleavage plates of the corundum, or forms margari- 

 tized individuals with remnants of corundum. 



The most interesting plumasite dike pierced a large sill of serpen- 

 tine flanked below by granulite which was exposed through a ver- 

 tical range of 150 feet. In the granulite the dike was a normal 

 granitic pegmatite composed of quartz, orthoclase, and subordinate 

 plagioclase, with hardly any biotite, and no corundum. In the 

 serpentine above the dike had contracted in width, lost all its 

 quartz, but now carried corundum. 



Du Toit advanced the view that the plumasite owes its genesis 

 to the desilicating action of the serpentine walls upon the originally 

 acid magma constituting the dike. Evidence of reaction between 

 the invading acid magma and its ultrabasic walls is quite evident. 

 Between the plumasite and the serpentine is a contact zone from 

 a few feet to 10 feet in width. Adjacent to the plumasite the zone 

 consists of a belt of brown mica, variable in width, which passes 

 laterally into a proportionally wider belt of massive or foliated 

 talc. The mica is brownish, with weak to moderate pleochroism, 

 and an axial angle of 2° to 20° or 30°, and considered to consist of 

 both biotite and phlogopite. 14 Irregular or lenticular patches of 

 the mica occur as xenoliths in the plumasite. Isolated patches of 

 the talc may occur in the serpentine. In the reaction between 

 the pegmatitic solutions and the serpentine the serpentine received 

 an addition of silica, alumina, potash and fluorine to form the 



14 More probably vermiculite. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 173 



zones of biotite and talc, resulting in the impoverishment of these 

 constituents in the dike which crystallized into an aggregate of 

 oligoclase, corundum, and margarite, with occasional tourmaline. 



Table I. Analysis of Oliogclase. 



A B 



SiO, 61.36 62.76 



A1 2 3 22.97 21.95 



CaO 5.38 2.68 



Na 2 8.08 10.31 



K 2 1.08 



H 2 0..... 1.72 0.29 



99.51 99.07 



Sp.gr 2.633 2.628 



A. Oligoclase, Spanish Peak, Plumas County, Calif.; Lawson, loc. cit., analysis 

 by J. Newfield. 



B. Oligoclase, Mosso Santa Maria, Biella, Italy; A. Cossa. 15 



PENNSYLVANIA AND MARYLAND ALBITITES. 



Albitite has long been quarried for feldspar in the serpentine 

 area along the Pennsylvania-Maryland line, which includes south- 

 ern Lancaster and Chester counties, Pennsylvania, and Cecil Coun- 

 ty, Maryland. 



The geology of part of the district has been described by Bas- 

 com/ 6 and the principal quarries by Hopkins' 7 andBastin. 18 



The district is underlain by an igneous complex, to the north of 

 which lies a mica gneiss thoroughly injected by a fine grained gra- 

 nite. The igneous rocks form a batholithic mass, in which the 

 following interesting series is exhibited in passing from the south- 

 east to the northwestern part of the district: biotite granodiorite, 

 hornblende granodiorite, quartz-biotite-hornblende gabbro, quartz- 

 hornblende gabbro, hornblende-norite and quartz-norite, norite, 

 pyroxenite, and peridotite. All are more or less metamorphosed, 

 the granodiorites assuming a gneissic structure, while the perido- 

 tite is usually altered to serpentine. 



The more important albitite dikes are limited to the largest ser- 

 pentine mass which lies along the Pennsylvania-Maryland line 



15 A. Cossa. Ricerche chimice e microscopiche su roccie e minerali d'ltalia, 

 Feldispathe corindonifero della Biellese. Torino, 1881, 65. 



16 Maryland Geolog. Survey, Cecil County, 83-148, 1902. 



17 Ann. Rep. Penna. State College, 1898-99: 7-20. 

 "U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull. 420: 63-77, 1910. 




174 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part I 




192l| 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



175 



Fig. 2. — Albitite and plumasite occurrences of the West Chester quadrangle, 

 Chester County, Penna. B, Brinton's serpentine quarry, containing veins of 

 albitite; Co. abandoned corundum mines in plumasite near Unionville. 




176 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part I 



(fig. 1). Small irregular dikes occur also in Brinton's serpentine 

 quarries, three miles south of West Chester (fig. 2). Extensive 

 quarries lie west and northwest of Sylmar in Chester County, and 

 southeast of Rock Springs, and northeast of Pilot, Cecil County. 

 In two cases, east of Bald Friar, and a mile northeast of Pilot, Ce- 

 cil County, quarries have produced commercially both albite and 

 talc. But two quarries are at present worked: Wiant's quarry 

 three-quarters of a mile northeast of Pilot, and Garrison's quarry, 

 three-quarters of a mile east of Rock Springs, Cecil County. The 

 others are abandoned and filled with water, but their size gives 

 evidence of the great quantity of albite which they formerly pro- 

 duced. 



The albitite dikes range in size from a few inches in width, such 

 as at Brinton's quarry, south of West Chester (fig. 2), to great 

 masses four or five hundred feet in length, and more than a hundred 

 feet in width, such as were quarried at the Rock Springs quarry, 

 and at the Sparvetta, Keystone, and Brandywine quarries, one 

 and a half miles west of Sylmar, and at Campbell's quarry, two 

 miles northwest of Sylmar. 



Fig. 3 



Fig. 4 



One hundred feet 



Fig. 3. — Horizontal section of an albitite dike quarried one and a quarter miles 

 northwest of Sylmar, Chester County, Pennsylvania. 



Fig. 4. — Horizontal section of an albitite dike quarried two miles northwest of 

 Sylmar. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 177 



As is characteristic of pegmatites in general, the albitite dikes 

 are exceedingly irregular, pinching and swelling, and very frequent- 

 ly bifurcating. Examples of the irregularities are shown in fig. 3 

 and fig. 4. 



The albitites consist almost entirely of granular white, yellowish, 

 or bluish gray, translucent albite. 19 Most of the albite is un- 

 twinned, — a peculiarity noted above as being shown by the albite 

 of the California albitite, and in the oligoclase of the Natal pluma- 

 site. A yellowish-white untwinned albite from Campbell's quarry, 

 two miles northwest of Sylmar gave the following indices of refrac- 

 tion upon immersion, indicating a quite pure albite: a = 1.526, 

 £=1.530, y= 1.536, all=0.0005 A granular grayish white al- 

 bite from the vicinity of the L^ne Pit (probably from the present 

 site of Garrison's quarry, three-quarters of a mile west of Rock 

 Springs) was analyzed by Brush 20 with the following results: 



Table 2. Analysis of Albite. 



Granular, grayish-white; near the Lancaster County chrome mines. Analysis 

 by Brush. 



SiOi 66.65 



ALC-3 20.79 



MgO 0.52 



CaO 2.05 



Na*0 9.36 



99.37 

 Sp.gr 2.619 



Quartz is conspicuous by its absence, having been noted at but 

 one locality, a quarry north of Black Run, one and a half miles 

 northwest of Sylmar, where it occurs with much muscovite and 

 anorthoclase (fig. 7) . The most frequent accessory minerals are 

 hornblende and biotite. Hornblende forms minute radiating groups 

 while biotite occurs in minute crystals, scattered through the al- 

 bite, at times occuring locally in large amount. Tourmaline is 

 abundant in the albitite of Brinton's quarry, and molybdenite has 

 been found in the quarries northwest of Sylmar. Actinolite some- 

 times occurs in beautiful greenish radiations through the albite, 

 especially near the margins of the dikes. The albitite of Wiant 's 

 quarry, three-quarters of a mile northeast of Pilot, Cecil County, 

 is filled with miarolitic cavities which are lined with minute, color- 



18 Called "leelite" in some of the earlier lists of Pennsylvania minerals. 

 20 Am. J. Sci. (2), 8: 390, 1849. 




178 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part I 



Fig. 5 



Fig. 6 



Fig. 7 



Fig. 8 



Fig. 5. — Albite, Garrison's quarry, west of Rock Springs, Cecil County, Mary- 

 land. Crossed nicols, x 15. 



Fig. 6. — Albite, showing both albite and pericline twining. One mile southwest 

 of Nottingham, Chester County. Crossed nicols, x 15. 



Fig. 7. — Albite (black), anorthoclase (twinned), and quartz (white), one and a 

 half miles northwest of Sylmar, Chester County, Penna. Crossed nicols, 

 xl5. 



Fig. 8. — Aggregates of zoisite (gray in center), in serpentine (white groundmass) 

 through which are dispersed needles and blades of actinolite (dark). One 

 and a half miles northwest of Sylmar. Plain light, x 15. 




1-921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 179 



less albite crystals. Minute, transparent, greenish, highly modi- 

 fied beryl crystals occur rarely implanted on the albite, while not 

 infrequently the rest of the cavity is filled with matted masses of 

 dark greenish actinolite needles. Occasionally a peculiar green 

 and white porphyritic rock occurs near the margin of the dikes, 

 especially in the Sylmar district. Examination of thin sections of 

 of this material shows the phenocrysts to be aggregates of zoisite 

 in a groundmass of serpentine, and actinolite needles, (fig. 8). Such 

 an association in which the zoisite was pink in color has been briefly 

 described by Wherry. 21 



Adjacent to the albitite dikes are usually three distinct zones of 

 minerals formed by the reaction of the pegmatitic solutions with 

 the serpentine walls. In passing from the albitite to the serpentine 

 their order is: vermiculite, actinolite with more or less talc, and 

 talc — beyond which lies the serpentine (fig. 9). 



The vermiculite zone consists of brown scaly vermiculite, repre- 

 senting a weathered biotite. Analyses of the variety jefferisite 

 from Brinton's quarry, Chester county, are given below. Masses 

 of vermiculite may occur in the albitite. The actinolite zone, 

 which is thinner than others, consists of greenish radiating crystals 

 of actinolite with more or less talc. The talc zone consists of silvery 

 white to light greenish, massive or foliated talc, in which are us- 

 ually disseminated many minute octahedral crystals of magnetite. 



It will be observed that there is a gradual increase of magnesia 

 and water in passing from the albitite to the serpentine. From 

 this it seems probable that the peridotite had been serpentinized 

 prior to the intrusion of the albitite, which had the effect of par- 

 tially dehydrating the serpentine in the vicinity of the intruded 

 mass. In the formation of the biotite (now vermiculite), actinolite, 

 and talc zones, the pegmatitic solutions were more or less depleted 

 of silica, alumina, lime, potash, and fluorine. The potash, fluorine, 

 and alumina went to form the biotite zone, magnesia and perhaps 

 iron being furnished by the serpentine. Most of the silica was used 

 in silicating the serpentine to actinolite and talc, the physico-chemi- 

 cal conditions being such as to cause the formation of hydroxy- 

 silicates. The result was that the original pegmatitic solutions, 

 which under normal circumstances would have crystallized into a 

 rock composed of quartz, microcline, albite or oligoclase, muscovite 



21 Edgar T. Wherry, Some Minerals from Sylmar, Pennsylvania, Am. Min., 

 3: 47, 1918. 




180 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part- 1 



and biotite, lost practically everything but the constituents of al- 

 bite, and consequently solidified to a rock consisting almost wholly 

 of this mineral. 



Fig. 9. — Generalized diagram of the contact phenomena shown by the Penn- 

 sylvania and Maryland albitite dikes. Ab = albite; V = vermiculite (alter- 

 ed biotite); A = actinolite, with more or less talc; T = talc; Sp = serpentine. 



Table 3. Analysis of Jefferisite, Brinton's Quarry, Chester 



County, Pa. 



A. Clarke and Schneider; 22 B. Koenig; 23 C. Chatard. 24 An earlier but er- 

 roneous analysis by Brush is omitted. 26 



A B C 



SiO, 34.20 33.35 34.40 



A1,0, 16.58 17.78 16.63 



FeX), 7.41 7.32 8.00 



FeO 1.13 2.11 (2.11) 24 



MgO 20.41 19.26 19.30 



H,0 21.14 19.87 19.03 



100.87 99.69 99.47 



22 Am. J. Sci. (3), 40: 452, 1890. 

 M Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 13: 392, 1873. 



"Am. J. Sci. (2), 31: 370, 1861. Previous to this the mineral had been known 

 to collectors under the name of phlogopite. 

 25 Taken from Koenig 's determination. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



181 





Fig. 10. — Albitite and plumasite occurrences of the Chester quadrangle, Delaware 

 County, Penna. A, Albitite occurrences; Co, abandoned corundum mines in 

 plumasite. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



PENNSYLVANIA PLUMASITES. 26 



Plumasites or corundum-bearing pegmatites occur in Pennsyl- 

 vania at the following localities: Morgan Station and Black Horse 

 in Delaware County, (fig. 10), and near Union ville, Chester 

 County (fig. 2) . All form intrusive masses in serpentine, or at the 

 contact of serpentine and gneiss. 



The geology of the region has been described by Rogers, 27 Frazer 

 and Hall, 28 Rand, 29 Bascom 30 and others. The area is underlain 

 by Precambrian gneisses and schists into which have been intruded 

 bodies of granite, gabbro, peridotite and pyroxenite. The basal or 

 Baltimore gneiss is a banded quartz-feldspar rock with massive 

 granitic facies. Overlying this is the Wissahickon mica gneiss, a 

 schistose quartz-feldspar rock with an excess of biotite or muscovite. 

 The peridotites and pyroxenites, which are genetically related to 

 the gabbros, in most cases have been hydrated to serpentine. 



Morgan Station (Village Green.) This locality is situated on a 

 very small patch of serpentine intrusive in Wissahickon gneiss one- 

 quarter mile south of Morgan Station, Aston township (fig. 10). 

 Large bronzy brown corundum crystals were found sheathed with 

 white pearly margarite. 31 



Black Horse, Middletown Township. An old corundum mine 

 was formerly situated in a large area of serpentine about one-quarter 

 mile south of Black Horse, on the west side of the road to Elwyn 

 (fig. 10). Many loose crystals of corundum were found in the soil 

 in the vicinity of the pit, and elsewhere in the township. One half 

 mile to the west are exposed granite gneisses. The corundum in 

 slender bipyramidal crystals, of a white to brown color, often as- 

 teriated, 32 was found in a granular white albite-oligoclase. 



26 As it has been stated that corundum was first found in America in Laurens 

 County, S. C, in 1819, it is desirable to point out an earlier discovery of this 

 mineral at Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia: Adam Seybert, Adamantine spar and 

 basaltes, Medical Repository, 3: 202, 1800; also J. C. Delametherie, J. de Phys. 

 (53), 9: 404-405, 1801. 



27 Henry D. Rogers, Geology of Pennsylvania, 1858. 



28 Second Geological Survey of Penna., Reports C4 and C5, 1883 and 1885. 

 29 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1900: 160-338. 



"Bull. Geol. Soc. America, 16: 289-328, 1905; U. S. Geol. Surv. Folio 162, 

 1909. 



31 Am. J. Sci. (2), 379-380, 1849. 



32 Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 13: 361-406, 1873; Ibid., 20: 381-404, 1882; Joseph 

 Willcox, Second Geoh Surv Penna., Rep. C4: 346-354, 1883. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 183 



Unionville, Chester County. 33 The Unionville corundum mines, 

 now abandoned, are situated in Newlin township, respectively one 

 and a half and two miles northeast of Unionville (fig. 2), at the con- 

 tact of serpentine and mica gneiss. Many boulders of corundum 

 were obtained in the fields by the farmers who systematically 

 dropped a crow-bar in the soil in the trail of the plow. 



At the pits one and a half miles northeast of Unionville the cor- 

 undum was found in a rock consisting of granular white albite, cor- 

 undum, black tourmaline, margarite, and euphyllite — a basic so- 

 dium and potassium mica. The corundum occurred in white or 

 grayish crystals. Zoisite was abundant, and occasionally black 

 octahedra of spinel were obtained. Adjacent to the vein the fol- 

 lowing minerals were noted : talc in white foliated masses and green- 

 ish actinolite with much dark green chlorite. 



At the mine one-half mile north of the preceding one a vein of 

 corundum and margarite seven feet thick was uncovered, which 

 was separated from the serpentine by a zone of foliated talc. In 

 this a vein of fawn-colored diaspore measuring three by two feet in 

 length and width, and two inches in thickness was discovered, some 

 of the crystals of which were two inches long. 34 The corundum 

 was white, brownish gray, to bluish. Crystals not infrequently 

 were sheathed with margarite or damourite. Margarite formed 

 in yellowish or pinkish foliated masses, or secondary aggregates of 

 scales with cores of corundum. Associated with the margarite 

 were honey-yellow or fawn colored laminated masses of diaspore, 

 occasionally in perfect spendent crystals up to two inches in length. 

 Beautiful translucent bluish or greenish prismatic crystals of tour- 

 maline penetrate the diaspore. The association is such as to in- 

 dicate the order of crystallization: tourmaline, diaspore, margarite. 

 Jefferisite (vermiculite) is found in large yellowish green plates. 



The plagioclase at the Unionville mines varies from white albite 

 to yellowish striated oligoclase. Analyses of these are given be- 

 low. 



33 H. D. Rogers, Geology of Pennsylvania, I, 1858, 170. Joseph Willcox, Sec. 

 Geol. Surv. Penna. Rep., C4: 346, 1883. Joseph Leidy, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1872: 238-239. Frederick A. Genth, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 13: 361^06, 

 1873; 20: 381-404, 1882. The statement "about one mile from Unionville on 

 the Kennett Square road" means from the upper mine, and not the village of 

 Unionville. 



34 Isaac Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 19: 44-45, 1867. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Table 3. Analyses of Albite and Oligoclase, Unionville, 

 Chester County, Pa. 



A. Albite, white; mean of two analyses. J. L. Smith and George J. Brush, 

 Am. J. Sci. (2), 15: 211, 1853. 



B. Albite, white, crystalline. Martin H. Boye, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 2: 150, 

 1841. 



C. Albite, white, crystalline; analysis by Weld. Benjamin Silliman, Jr., 

 Am. J. Sci. (2), 8: 377-394, 1849. 



D. Oliogoclase, brownish-white; analysis by Thomas M. Chatard. Frederick 

 A. Genth, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 13: 361-406, 1873. 



A B C D 



SiO, 64.27 67.72 66.86 59.35 



Al 2 Oa 21.21 20.54 21.89 24.16 



FeA tr. 



MgO 0.58 



CaO 0.81 



Na s O 10.94 



K,0 1.36 



Ignition 1.08 



100.25 

 Sp.gr 2.61 



LOCALITIES OF PLUMASITE IN OTHER STATES. 



Pelham, Massachusetts: The occurrence of corundum and 

 its associated minerals at Pelham, Mass. has been described by 

 Emerson. 35 The locality is an asbestos mine, one mile southwest 

 of Mount Lincoln, Pelham township, where a great block of black 

 saxonite is enclosed in Pelham granite gneiss. 



The saxonite is a fine granular dark gray rock composed of color- 

 less enstatite darkened by abundant chromite and magnetite, and 

 containing porphyritic plates of bronzy enstatite. Between the 

 Pelham granite gneiss and the saxonite a thick contact "reaction 

 rim" has been developed. The granite gneiss is a light gray rock 

 consisting of a granular mixture of quartz, microcline, streaked 

 with biotite scales and epidote grains. Near the contact the gra- 

 nite is more massive, less biotitic and quartzose, and grades into 

 a layer of snow-white, fine grained anorthite containing some an- 

 desine crystals, and much disseminated tourmaline, rutile, zircon, 

 and allanite. This layer passes into an interrupted layer of black 

 massive tourmaline in many places two feet thick, at times con- 

 taining some large imperfect crystals of the mineral, with small 



35 U. S. Geol. Surv. Monograph, 29: 47-55, 1898; U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull., 

 597, 215-216, 1917. See also Earl V. Shannon, Am. Min., 4: 37-39, 1919. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 185 



crystals of apatite and zoisite. The last zone is composed of 

 coarsely matted reddish-brown biotite from four inches to four feet 

 thick containing many nodules of dark green fibrous actinolite and 

 large nodules and crystals of corundum. Beyond this lies the sax- 

 onite which for a distance of three to twelve feet contains a network 

 of veins of colorless, fibrous anthophyllite, — the asbestos for which 

 the pit was worked. 



The tourmaline, rutile, and allanite are characteristic of peg- 

 matitic assemblages, and in this case a pegmatitic facies probably 

 developed at the margin of the Pelham granite gneiss which reacted 

 with the saxonite to form the interesting series of contact minerals. 

 Beyond the contact zones siliceous solutions entered the fractured 

 saxonite and silicated the saxonite minerals to anthophyllite. 



Chester, Massachusetts: The Chester emery deposits have 

 been described by Jackson, 36 Shepard, 37 and Emerson. 38 The 

 Chester emery deposits occur as a series of small disconnected len- 

 ses up to sixteen feet in thickness, but averaging four feet, between 

 the Chester hornblende schist and serpentine. The hornblende 

 schist is a dark-green to black foliated or ligniform epidotic quartz- 

 hornblende schist considered by Emerson to be of sedimentary 

 origin. The hornblende schist is bordered at several places with 

 lenticular intrusive masses of serpentine. 



The emery vein consists of a mixture of chlorite and magnetite 

 containing in abundance bronze colored crystals of corundum, and 

 a considerable quantity of tourmaline in black crystals or stellated 

 aggregates. In passing from the hornblende schist to the serpen- 

 tine the following sequence is noted: hornblende schist, biotite layer, 

 chloritic band with tourmaline, emery vein with various minerals, 

 corundophilite zone, talc zone, and finally serpentine. The corun- 

 dophilite zone may be wholly replaced by a white to reddish, fine 

 grained saccharoidal oligoclase up to twelve inches in thickness. 



One of the most interesting sections is that of the mine at the 

 base of South Mountain. The serpentine on the east passes into 

 a zone of pure, light-green, schistose or massive talc, through 

 which are scattered remnants of serpentine from which the talc was 

 derived. The width of this zone varied from five to fifteen feet. 



36 Am. J. Sci. (2) 39: 87, 1865. 



37 Charles U. Shepard, A description of the emery mine of Chester, Hampden 

 County, Mass., London, 1865. 



38 U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull., 597: 159-161, 1917. 



See also Earl V. Shannon, Am. Min., 4: 69-72, 1919. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



Beyond this is the corundophilite zone 39 composed of plates of cor- 

 undophilite 20 mm. broad, which may be wholly replaced by oligo- 

 clase. The corundophilite often penetrates the emery vein in 

 sheets filling fissures, on which may occur in cavities fine foliated 

 sheets of pearly margarite, and thick masses of interlaced blades 

 and crystals of violet diaspore, frequently enclosing bright red 

 needles of rutile, or broad plates of ilmenite. 39 Rarely associated 

 with these are radiating yellowish green needles of epidote, or brown 

 crystals of brookite. To a much later period of mineralization be- 

 long veins of specular hematite in small rosettes, pyrite, chalcopy- 

 rite, calcite, and aragonite. 



It will be seen that the mineralogy of this deposit is quite com- 

 plex. However, the presence of such minerals as tourmaline, oligo- 

 clase, rutile, brookite, etc., the evidence of reaction with the serpen- 

 tine, and the features resembling the plumasites described above, 

 all indicate that this deposit probably owes its origin largely to the 

 desilication of a granitic pegmatite intruded along the contact of 

 the hornblende schist and serpentine.- 



Georgia: The Georgia corundum deposits have been described 

 by Francis P. King. 40 All of the deposits occur in ultrabasic rocks 

 forming intrusive masses in the gneisses and schists. The veins 

 vary in form, and are from one to twelve feet in width. The fol- 

 lowing four types were recognized by King: (a) lime-soda feldspar 

 with quartz and phlogopite or vermiculite, (b) lime-soda feldspar 

 with actinolite ; (c) a coarse-grained aggregate of lime-soda feldspar, 

 black hornblende, and margarite; (d) a massive vein made up of 

 light grass-green amphibole ("smaragdite"), lime-soda feldspar, 

 and a little chromite. All these types have walls of compact, scaly 

 chlorite, which quite frequently contains corundum. The second 

 type (b) is rare, and the corundum crystals usually possess a sheath- 

 ing of secondary margarite. The third type (c) is more common 

 than (b), but it differs from the first two in its massive, pegmatitic 

 character. The fourth type (d) is very rare, being known only at 

 the Bell Creek mine, Towns County, and in Clay County, North 

 Carolina. The rock is made up of a beautiful grass-green bladed 

 smaragdite, and feldspar, through which are scattered pink and 

 ruby-red corundum. 



At the Hog Creek mine, Town 's County, a boulder of zoisite en- 



39 Known to the old miners as the "fringe rock." 



40 Francis P. King, Geological Survey of Georgia, Bull., 2, 1894. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



187 



cased in finely fibrous actinolite was found. The most important 

 mine, however, was that at Laurel Creek, Rabun County, which 

 occurred near the contact of peridotite and gneiss. 



North Carolina: The corundum deposits of North Carolina 

 have been described in detail by Joseph Hyde Pratt and J. Volney 

 Lewis. 41 They occur largely in areas of peridotites and pyroxeni- 

 tes intrusive in the gneisses and schists in the mountain belt ex- 

 tending from Georgia through Clay, Macon, Transylvania, Jackson, 

 Haywood, Buncombe, Madison, Yancey, and Mitchell Counties. 

 The peridotites are usually dunite or saxonite, but secondary ser- 

 pentine, talc, chlorite, and amphibole schists occur. 





ill 



iiuiiiiiPiiiiiiife 



Fig. 11. — Ideal section of a border vein of corundum at the Corundum Hill 

 mine, Macon County, N. C. (Pratt and Lewis) ; (a) gneiss, hornblendic or 

 micaceous, unaltered; (b) gneiss, decomposed: (c) yellowish vermiculites, 

 often merging into (d), and sometimes absent; (d) green chlorites of vary- 

 ing thickness; (e) the corundum vein consisting of chlorite and corundum, 

 often with some vermiculites; (f) green chlorites; (g) enstatite, in places 

 hard and compact, usually merging into (h); (h) talcose rock, usually fibrous; 

 (i) a seam of yellowish clay often carrying masses of quartz and chalcedony, 

 sometimes absent; (j) more or less altered dunite; (k) fresh dunite. An im- 

 portant variation is the development of a zone of corundum-bearing plagio- 

 clase either in the corundum -bearing zone of chlorites or vermiculites (e) 

 or entirely replacing this zone. 



Two types of corundum veins were recognized by Pratt and Lew- 

 is: the peripheral or border veins at the contact of peridotite and 

 gneiss, and interior veins which occurred wholly within the peri- 



41 J. Volney Lewis, N. C. Geol. Surv. Bull., 11, 1896. Joseph Hyde Pratt, U. 

 S. Geol. Surv. Bull., 180, 1901; and 269, 1906. Joseph Hyde Pratt and J. Vol- 

 ney Lewis, North Carolina Geol. Surv. I, 1905. Am. J. Sci. (4) 8: 227-231, 1899. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



dotite. In all cases interesting series of contact zones are ex- 

 hibited (figs. 11 to 13). 



Important deposits were worked in Clay County near Elf on 

 Shooting Creek, on Chunk Gal Mountain, and at Buck Creek. At 

 the Buck Creek or Cullakenee mine, the corundum occurred as 

 grayish-white, bluish, or pink crystals with a deep green smaragdite, 

 and a white granular plagioclase, ranging in composition from an- 

 desine to anorthite. Associated with these were grayish columnar 

 masses of zoisite, and lamellar crystals of margarite. Analyses 

 of the plagioclase are given below. 



Fig. 12. — Ideal cross-section of an interior vein of corundum at the Corundum 

 Hill mine, Macon County, N. C. (Pratt and Lewis); (1 and 11) normal 

 dunite; (2 and 10) somewhat friable and discolored dunite; (3 and 9) fibrous 

 talc; (4 and 8) grayish, somewhat fibrous, enstatite; (5 and 7) green chlor- 

 ites; (6) central corundum-bearing zone consisting of chlorites, corundum, 

 and spinel. An important variation is the development of a zone of corun- 

 dum-bearing plagioclase either in zone (6) or entirely replacing it. 



At this mine two zeolites, wellsite and chabazite , were found in 

 veins in the feldspar. 



One of the most important mines was the Corundum Hill or 

 Cullasaja mine, seven miles northeast of Franklin, Macon County. 

 The veins were of both the border and interior types (figs. 11 and 

 and 12). An analysis of oligoclase from this locality is given be- 

 low. In addition, large masses of black tourmaline containing cor- 

 undum were found, and very rarely margarite, and minute crystals 

 of diaspore. 



At the Cowee Valley, Macon County, small ruby crystals have 

 been found enclosing rhodolite, a garnet of the composition: 

 3Mg 3 Al £ (Si0 4 ) 3 :Fe 3 Al 2 (Si0 4 ) ,. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



189 









Fig. 13. — Ideal vertical section of corundum in amphibolite at Hunters, Iredell 

 County, N. C. (Pratt and Lewis); (a) a feldspar vein more or less altered 

 to kaolin and often bearing corundum; (b) vermiculite zones carrying corun- 

 dum; (c) radiating sheaths of actinolite enclosing some amphibolite; (d) 

 amphibolite often reduced to a mass of ocherous clay containing needles 

 of hornblende and scales of vermiculite. 



Table 5. Analyses of the Plagioclase Feldspars of 

 the North Carolina Corundum Veins. 



A. Oligoclase, Corundum Hill mine, Macon County, N. C. H. M. Keller, 

 U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull., 74, p. 55. 



B. Andesine. Buck Creek mine, Clay County, N. C. Snow-white to bluish- 

 white masses, striated. G. A. Koenig, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 13: 375, 1873. 



C. Andesine. Buck Creek mine, Clay County, N. C. T. M. Chatard, Proc. 

 Am. Phil. Soc, 13: 375, 1873. 



D. Labradorite. Buck Creek mine, Clay County, N. C. White lustrous 

 cleavage masses. W. H. Jarden, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., 74, p. 54. 



B 



I) 



Si0 2 63.32 



A1 2 3 35.19 



FejO...... 



MgO 



CaO 5.01 



Na 2 8.02 



KjO 0.25 



Ignition .... 



101.79 

 Sp.gr 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part I 



The origin of the North Carolina deposits has been a much dis- 

 cussed question. The contact zones were described early by She- 

 pard, 42 Chatard, 43 and others. 



Julien, 44 although regarding the dunite beds as metamorphosed 

 sediments, believed that the veins originated by the introduction 

 of deep seated solutions of soda and alumina into fissures during 

 the period of metamorphism. 



Chatard pointed out the progressive increase in magnesia as the 

 dunite is approached and a gradual decrease in the amount of 

 alumina. He regarded the corundum veins as the result of altera- 

 tions along the contact of aluminous-alkaline silicate rocks and 

 magnesian-silicate rocks, probably effected by surface solutions. 



Because of the circumstance that many of the corundum deposits 

 occurred at the margins of peridotite masses, Pratt and Lewis 45 

 presented the theory of their origin as magmatic segregations of a 

 peridotite magma. It was believed that the corundum was held 

 in solution in the molten peridotite when it was intruded, and that 

 the corundum was among the first minerals to crystallize out. This 

 solidification would take place first at the outer border of the mass 

 where it cooled first. Convection currents would tend to bring a 

 new supply of material carrying alumina to this outer zone where 

 it would crystallize. 



Holland 4 ', and Teall 47 , presented objections to this theory based 

 on the rather old experiments of Morozewicz 48 , which indicated 

 that in a magma supersaturated with silica, that is, one in which 

 the molecular ratio of A1 2 3 to the bases CaO, K 2 0, and Na 2 is 

 more than 1:1, the excess of silica would separate out as corundum 

 if MgO and FeO were absent and Si0 2 were not present in an 

 amount sufficient to form sillimanite. With the presence of MgO 

 and FeO spinel would form, or if enough silica were present iolite 

 (cordierite). 



More recently the ternary system MgO-Al 2 3 -Si0 2 was studied 

 in detail by Rankin and Merwin. 49 The results of their precise 



«Am. J. Sci. (3) 4: 109-114, 175-180, 1872. 

 43 U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull., 42: 45-63, 1888. 

 44 Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 22: 141-149, 1882. 

 46 Loc. cifc. 



46 Mem. Geol. Surv. India, 30: 209, 1901. 

 47 Proc. Geol. Assoc, 16: 72, 1899. 



«Tschermak's Min. u. Petr. Mitth., 18: 1-90, 105-240, 1899. 

 49 Am. J. Sci., (4) 45: 301-325, 1918. See also Olaf Andersen, Ibid., 39 : 407- 

 454, 19i5. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 191 



work indicate that corundum would not be expected as an early- 

 phase in the crystallization of a dry magma near peridotite in com- 

 position. It is clear that evidence of magmatic segregations of. cor- 

 undum in ultrabasic rocks is lacking. , 



On the other hand the presence of abundant tourmaline, much 

 plagioclase, with garnet, zoisite, vermiculite, etc., is indicative of 

 pegmatitic assemblages, and it is therefore more probable that 

 these corundum veins represent granitic pegmatites which have so 

 reacted with the wall rocks as to almost lose their identity. The 

 contact zones are somewhat different from those of the plumasites 

 described above, but wide variations are to be expected depending 

 on the composition of the original pegmatitic solutions, and even 

 more so on the character of the peridotite or pyroxenite, and on 

 whether these had already been hydrated to serpentine. It may 

 be noted that much magnesia was assimilated by the pegmatitic 

 solutions with the formation of much chlorite and biotite (since al- 

 tered to vermiculite) and some spinel in the corundum veins. The 

 distinct chloritic zones are evidence of reaction with the wall rock, 

 whereby alumina was furnished by the pegmatitic solutions, and 

 magnesia by the peridotite. The zone of enstatite may be ex- 

 plained by silication of the olivine, perhaps by the reaction 

 Mg i Si0 4 + SiO.=2MgSi0 3 or the mineral may have been produced 

 by abstraction of some of the magnesia. Incidentlyit is rather unus- 

 ual to find enstatite rather than anthophyllite. The position of the 

 talc zone between the dunite and the enstatite is anomalous, but it 

 might be noted that most of the analyses of the North Carolina dun- 

 ites show the presence of water, and more or less alteration to serp- 

 entine. 



Summary of Mineralogy of Desilicated Granitic 

 Pegmatites. 



The mineralogical composition of this group depends largely on 

 the composition of the original pegmatitic solutions, that of the 

 wall rock (peridotite, pyroxenite, serpentine, etc.), and the degree 

 of desilication or extent of reaction between the two. Variations in 

 the character of the zones also occur. In some cases different per- 

 iods of mineralization, some distinctly later than others, may occur. 

 The minerals, exclusive of those occurring in the contact zone, 

 which are more properly to be regarded as contact metamorphs of 

 the peridotites, serpentines, etc., are listed below. 




Primary. Trisilicdtes (feldspars): albite, oligoclase, andesine. 

 labradorite, anorthite. Metasilicates (amphiboles) : actinolite, 

 hornblende (edenite), (miscellaneous) beryl. Orthosilicates (gar- 

 nets): almandite, rhodolite, (boro-) tourmaline, (oxy-) sillimanite, 

 (hydroxy-) epidote, zoisite, allanite; (micas) muscovite, damourite, 

 euphyllite, biotite, margarite; (chlorites) corundophilite, etc. 

 Hydrous metasilicates: chabazite, wellsite. Phosphates: apatite. 

 Oxides: corundum, spinel, diaspore, rutile, brookite, ilmenite, 

 quartz (rare). Sulfides: molybdenite, pyrite. 



Weathering Products. Hydrous silicates: kaolinite, colerainite, 

 vermiculite (jefferisite), etc. Carbonates: aragonite. Hydrous 

 oxides: limonite. 



(192) 




SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE FROM THE MUSEUM NATIONAL 

 D'HISTOIRE NATURELLE, PARIS, FRANCE. 



BY MORGAN HEBARD. 



Having recently reported on the undetermined American Der- 

 maptera of the Paris Museum, 1 the undetermined American Blat- 

 tidae were next sent us for study by Monsieur Lucien Berland of 

 that institution. The North American material does not include 

 any large collections and will be reported on in several papers based 

 largely on the Philadelphia collections and now in the' course of 

 preparation. 



The South American series, on the other hand, proved to be large 

 and intensely interesting. As it was almost entirely from three very 

 distinct regions (French Guiana, southeastern Brazil and northern 

 Argentina), we have prepared a single report on the collections, divid- 

 ing it into three sections on a geographic basis and have included 

 material of our own collections which had not previously been 

 studied. 



The series sent by the Paris Museum has been returned, with the 

 exception of sets of duplicates, now in the collection of the author, 

 deposited at The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 We have also been most generously permitted to retain certain 

 unique individuals of previously known species, of great importance 

 in our futher studies on the subject. For these, an equivalent in 

 other material has been sent the Paris Museum. 



The 637 specimens recorded represent 49 genera and 99 species, 

 of which 8 genera and 34 species are described as new. 



We wish to thank most heartily, Monsieur Lucien Berland and 

 Docteur Lucien Chopard, for their kind assistance in affording us 

 the opportunity to study this material. 



Section I. French Guiana. 



This series represents the first large collection of Blattidae to be 

 studied from French Guiana. The series includes 103 specimens, 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1920, pp. 337 to 353, (1921). 



(193) 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Part II 



representing 23 genera and 32 species, of which 3 genera and 9 

 species are new. Though large, the collection probably includes 

 only a small percentage of the Blattidae to be found in French 

 Guiana, one of the richest regions of tropical South America. 



Among the new species, most remarkable and interesting are; 

 Sciablatta poecila, Leuropeltis atopa, Zetoborella gemmicula and 

 Oulopteryx dascilloides. The large Panchlorid, Schizopilia fissi- 

 collis, is one of the most interesting species of the region, due to 

 the extraordinary pronotal specialization. This species appears 

 to be rare in collections. 



ECTOBIINAE. 



Anaplecta maronensis new species. Plate IX, figure 3. 



This minute insect agrees closely with A. cabimae Hebardin size 

 and form; differing in the buffy pronotal disk with large prouts 

 brown suffused area above the head, buckthorn brown and conse- 

 quently distinctly less tawny tegmina and decidedly longer appen- 

 dicular field of the wings. 



Type : 9 : La Forestiere, Upper Maroni River, French Guiana. 

 [Paris Museum.] 



Size very small, form slender for the genus. Head scarcely longer 

 than broad ; vertex evenly convex, without distinct ridges over the 

 antennal sockets; ocellar spots subobsolete. Pronotum approach- 

 ing oval, the caudal margin showing no more truncation than the 

 mesal portion of the cephalic margin, very feebly obtuse-angulate 

 convex; surface weakly convex, with no trace of discal sulci. Teg- 

 mina extending a brief distance beyond apex of abdomen, narrow; 

 costal margin very feebly convex to near the apex, where it bends 

 more sharply to meet the sutural margin, which is almost straight, 

 apex sharply rounded; costal veins inconspicuous, not numerous 

 ( 8 ), with a few spurious intermediate veins distad; discoidal sectors 

 two in number. Wings not broad; costal veins simple, subobsolete 

 in clouded area ( 4 to 5 ), combining with the similar distal veinlets 

 (4 to 5), which also spring from the discoidal vein as it curves to 

 meet the median vein at the distal extremity of the medio-discoidal 

 area; medio-discoidal area, before this point, without transverse 

 veinlets; appendicular field in length about four-fifths that of re- 

 maining portion of wing, length appreciably greater than width. 

 Supra-anal plate roundly produced, showing scarcely any angulation. 

 Subgenital plate of the valvular type characteristic of the genus. 

 Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora with a single very slender 

 and elongate proximal spine, succeeded by a row of microscopic, 

 very short, rather closely set spinulae, terminated distad by two 

 very slender spines, very elongate in increasing ratio distad. Other 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



femoral margins, pulvilli, tarsal claws and arolia as characteristic 

 of the genus. 2 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Specimen much damaged. Agrees with type in ambisexual char- 

 acters, differing as follows. Form almost imperceptibly more slen- 

 der. Genitalia so damaged that the subgenital plate alone can be 

 seen to bear two simple styles, much of the type found in A. lateralis 

 Burmeister, the sinistral being the longer and heavier and directed 

 dextrad. 



Head chestnut brown. Pronotum with disk ochraceous-buff, 

 with a large suffusion of prouts brown in area above the head, lat- 

 eral portions translucent buffy. Tegmina translucent buckthorn 

 brown, except in narrow marginal field which is translucent buff. 

 Wings with appendicular field heavily tinged with mummy brown. 

 Cerci, underparts and limbs warm buff. Ventral surface of ab- 

 domen ochraceous-buff, suffused broadly but not heavily both lat- 

 erad and distad with prouts brown. 



Length of body d 71 4, 9 4.1; length of pronotum cT 1.2, 9 1.2; 

 width of pronotum cf 1.7, 9 1.7; length of tegmen cf 3.6, 9 3.9; 

 width of tegmen c? 1.4, 9 1.4; length of appendicular field of wing 

 cT 2.5, 9 2.5 mm. 



This strikingly colored species is known from the described pair. 



Anaplecta pulchella Rehn. 



1906. Anaplecta pulchella Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 262. 

 [ 9 ; Demerara, British Guiana.] 



Albina, Maroni River, Dutch Guiana, lcf. 



This specimen, the first male of the present species to be studied, 

 is seen to have the supra-anal plate large, extending as far as the 

 subgenital plate, with lateral margins converging weakly, then more 

 strongly and curving into the truncate distal portion. The sub- 

 genital plate with distal margin between the styles transverse and 

 moderately hairy, the dextral margin simple, oblique, the sinistral 

 margin transverse to sinistral style, with surface of plate in that 

 section broadly channeled, this portion produced into the sinistral 

 style, which is straight, produced for a brief distance, the margin 

 at the inner margin of this style suddenly produced for a short dis- 

 tance, in consequence of which the sinistral style is deeply inset, its 

 projecting portion equal in size and extending caudad the same 

 distance as the well-socketed, simple dextral style. 



2 Described in Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 4, p. 17, (1920). 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



PSEUDOMOPINAE. 



Sciablatta poecila 3 new species. Plate IX, figures 12, 13, 14 and 15. 



The comparatively thorough color description of Walker's Blatta 

 varicornis from Santarem, Brazil, 4 leaves little doubt but that the 

 present species is very closely related. From that description, 

 varicornis appears to differ only in the tegmina; "brown, with whit- 

 ish veins, and with a broad whitish hyaline costal space which tapers 

 towards the tip." The structural characters will probably show 

 much more important differences for that species, though we feel 

 that it may safely be assigned to Sciablatta. 



Compared with the genotype, S. mamatoco Hebard, described 

 from Santa Marta, Colombia, 5 poecila differs in the male sex in the 

 smaller size, broader form, delicate but more intricate and extensive 

 markings, proportionately much broader pronotum, proportionately 

 broader tegmina, with apices more nearly median in position and 

 discoidal sectors slightly more oblique and subgenital plate, with 

 the fused styles, much more elongate and slender. 



In the specialization of the male subgenital plate and dorsal sur- 

 face of the abdomen, greatest convergence in the known species of 

 the Blattellae to the characteristic type found in the Oxyhaloid 

 genus Chorisoneura is shown by this species. 



The intricate markings of this insect are so delicate, except on 

 head and antennae, that their real beauty is not realized until a 

 microscopic examination is made. 



Type : cf ; St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana. March. [Paris 

 Museum.] 



Size medium small for the Group Blattellae, form very broad 

 for the Group. Interocular space moderately broad, three-quarters 

 as wide as that between the antennal sockets, flattened and show- 

 ing weak, irregular impressions. Lateral margins of cheeks con- 

 verging distinctly ventrad. Maxillary palpi very short, third joint 

 very slightly longer than the enlarged fifth joint, fourth joint two- 

 thirds as long, enlarged regularly and considerably distad. Tegmen 

 with discoidal vein an equal distance from the costal and sutural 

 margins mesad, costal margin rounding toward sutural slightly 

 more than is usual in the Group, discoidal sectors (13 and 15) de- 

 cidedly oblique, as oblique as the costal veins. Wings with (8) 

 proximal costal veins moderately thickened in distal portions, 

 mediastine vein unbranched, ulnar vein with (8, including two sub- 



3 From zockIXt) = dappled. 



4 Cat. Blatt. Br. Mus., p. 216, (1868). 

 'Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLVII. p.115, (1921). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



divisions) complete branches, intercalated triangle ample, nearly 

 two-thirds as broad as long. Dorsal surface of abdomen with sixth 

 tergite shallowly concave meso-proximad, this area transverse oval 

 in outline, its surface carpeted with agglutinated hairs. Seventh 

 and eighth tergites distinctly narrower, moderately exposed along 

 their caudal margins. Supra-anal plate triangular with apex 

 blunted, subchitinous, subemarginate, its length approximately 

 two-fifths its basal width, showing no slight emargination at the 

 cereal bases as does that of mamatoco. Cerci much as in that species, 

 but smaller, the (10) joints similarly well defined. Paired plate 

 beneath supra-anal plate large and unspecialized. Subgenital 

 plate with surface very weakly convex, very short, sinistral portion 

 slightly more produced than dextral, caudal margin nearly trans- 

 verse, showing very slight production to median fourth, dextrad 

 very feebly concave, median portion fusing with the large, elongate 

 and lamellate styles, which are represented by nearly vertical 

 plates, attingent at their distal extremities, each about two and 

 one-half tunes as long as its basal width, the disto-dorsal angle very 

 broadly convex, the disto-ventral angle bluntly, but much more 

 sharply, convex. These plate-like cerci in the present species give 

 to the subgenital plate a strongly Chorisoneurine facies. Limb 

 armament, pulvilli, arolia and tarsal claws as characteristic of the 

 genus. 6 



General coloration buffy, with a faint tinge of buckthorn brown. 

 Head very pale flesh color, occiput with four irregular, vertical 

 streaks and flecks of dark prouts brown , a transverse band of prouts 

 brown between the eyes just above the ocelli, narrow laterad but 

 wider mesad, due to the greater convexity of its dorsal margin, a 

 very broad transverse band of prouts brown between the antennal 

 sockets, which contains a very broadly V-shaped transverse buffy 

 area mesad. Mouthparts and palpi clear clay-color. Antennae 

 in proximal (24 joints) portions clear clay-color, succeeding ten 

 joints mummy brown, followed by a striking and broad annulus (in- 

 cluding 5 joints) of warm buff, the remaining distal joints mummy 

 brown. Pronotum with disk light ochraceous-buff, broad lateral 

 portions transparent, the whole faintly tinged with buckthorn 

 brown, disk thickly tessellate with minute dots and a few lines of 

 prouts brown, as figured, broad lateral portions and cephalic mar- 

 gin marked with more scattered and even smaller dots of prouts 

 brown, the entire immediate margin, from point of greatest width 

 caudad, of this color. Tegmina transparent, faintly tinged with 

 buckthorn brown, marginal field with many very minute flecks of 

 ochraceous-tawny, other portions with minute areas between veins, 

 spurious veins and veinlets ochraceous-tawny, these proximad ir- 

 regularly square or transverse, distad longitudinally linear and all 

 so fine as to be individually scarcely appreciable to the naked eye. 



« Described in Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLV1I, p. 115, (1921). 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



Wings transparent, showing a faint tawny tinge, area of costal veins 

 in proximal portion clouded, in basal portion with bister and in 

 area of enlarged portions of veins buffy, in distal portion with nar- 

 row, interrupted suffusions of bister between the veins, this more 

 weakly continued around the distal margin of the anterior field in 

 buckthorn brown. Remaining dorsal surface ochraceous-buff, 

 shading to chestnut brown laterad and on supra-anal plate, the 

 immediate latero-caudal angles of the tergites and free margin of 

 the supra-anal plate buffy, these areas, however, not sharply denned. 

 Cerci clear ochraceous-buff. Limbs clear ochraceous-buff, coxae in 

 large external portions dark prouts brown, median femora in a 

 small area and caudal femora in a much larger area flecked ventro- 

 distad on caudal faces with dark prouts brown, the corresponding 

 tibiae with several heavy flecks of this color on dorsal and caudal 

 faces, the cephalic tibiae with fewer and smaller weak brownish 

 areas. Ventral surfaces of abdomen light ochraceous-buff, with an 

 irregular fleck and suffusion, as well as dots, of prouts brown laterad 

 toward the laterad margins. 



Length of body 10, length of pronotum 2.6, width of pronotum 

 4, length of tegmen 11.2, width of tegrtien meso-proximad 4, width 

 of tegmen mesad 3.9, length of wing 10.6, width of wing 6.3, width 

 of intercalated triangle 1.7, length of caudal femur 3.7 mm. 



The type of this extraordinary insect is unique. 



Neoblattella platystylata new species. 



Charvein and St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana. 

 Described on page 229. 



Neoblattella adspersicollis (Stal) 



1861. Blatta adspersicollis Stal, Kongl. Svenska Freg. Eugenie's Resa, Ins., 

 p. 308. [ cf ; Rio de Janeiro, [Brazil]. ] 



La Forestiere, Upper Maroni River, French Guiana, 1 cf . 

 This large species is of particular interest as genotype of Neoblat- 

 tella, see page 232. 



LEUROPELTIS 7 new genus. 



This genus is erected to include one of the most aberrant forms 

 of the Group Blattellae known to us. The broad flattened head 

 and prominent eyes suggest a further development of the type 

 usually shown by species of the Group Euphyllodromiae. The flat 

 pronotum and armament of the ventro-cephalic margins of the 

 cephalic femora afford distinctive characters. 



Though agreeing in the flattened form (though this is more decided 

 in the present insect), character of limb armament, pulvilli, tarsal 



7 From Xeupo? = flat and x!Xttq= a light shield. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



claws and arolia, Leuropeltis differs very strikingly from the Nycti- 

 borine genus Pseudischnoptera in the even more decidedly flattened 

 and shorter head, eyes which are more decidedly developed laterad 

 and extend ventrad well beyond the antennal sockets, more trans- 

 verse, oval pronotum with greatest width mesad and lateral portions 

 not at all deflexed, broader tegmina with longer anal field, spurious 

 veins absent and discoidal sectors decidedly oblique, broader wings 

 with area of costal veins much wider and ulnar vein with all branches 

 complete, unspecialized median segment but specialized sixth 

 abdominal tergite of male, very distinctive genitalic development 

 in this sex, ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora with two 

 heavier terminal spines and both cephalic and caudal ventral mar- 

 gins of other limbs armed, the caudal margins less heavily than in 

 Pseudischnoptera. 



In linear arrangement, the genus can not be satisfactorily assigned, 

 due to the fact that many aberrant genera of the Group Blattellae 

 exist, radiating away from the normal toward other totally different 

 types. We place Leuropeltis after Liosilpha Stal, from which genus, 

 however, it is very widely separated. 



Genotype. — Leuropeltis atopa new species. 



Generic Description. Genus known only from the male sex. 

 Head flattened, eyes large, widely separated and prominent, 

 antennae coarse and well supplied with short hairs. Pronotum 

 rectangularly oval, moderately transverse, greatest width mesad, 

 surface flat, the disk showing two pairs of oblique impressions. Teg- 

 mina long and broad, anal field elongate, discoidal sections strongly 

 oblique. Wings fully developed, marginal field extending over half 

 distance to apex, scapular field very broad in distal half, costal 

 veins thickening but not clubbed distad, ulnar vein with branches 

 complete, intercalated triangle subobsolete. Abdomen with latero- 

 caudal angles of five proximal tergites sharp, rectangulate, weakly 

 produced, tergites decidedly narrower after sixth, sixth tergite 

 specialized mesad. Cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic margin 

 unarmed except in distal third, where it is supplied with short, stout 

 spines, terminating in two heavier elongate distal spines, of which 

 the more distal is slightly the more elongate ; ventro-caudal margin 

 unarmed except in distal third, where it is supplied with a few mod- 

 erately large, elongate spines. Other ventral femoral margins 

 moderately supplied with similar spines, which, particularly on the 

 cephalic margins, are not as heavy or as large as those often 

 developed in the Pseudomopinae. Caudal metatarsus armed 

 ventrad with two rows of minute spinulae and supplied distad with 

 a moderately large pulvillus, three succeeding tarsal joints supplied 

 with similar pulvilli, occupying their entire ventral surfaces. Large 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



chitinous arolium present between the bases of the rather stout, 

 simple, symmetrical tarsal claws. 



Leuropeltis atopa new species. Plate X, figures 11, 12 and 13. 



This species is so distinctive that a helpful comparison can hardly 

 be made with any known Blattid. The rich brown of the tegmina 

 and pronotal disk, pale lateral portions of the pronotum and bicol- 

 ored antennae, are the more striking features of coloration. 



Type: o" ; Gourdonville, French Guiana. October. [Paris Mu- 

 seum.] 



We add the following features to those given in the generic diag- 

 nosis. Interocular space (1.1 mm.) three-quarters as wide as that 

 between the antennal sockets. Ocellar spots small. Inter-ocular- 

 ocellar area flattened, very weakly concave. Maxillary palpi with 

 distal joint equal in length to third, the dorsal margin showing a 

 very weak concavity, fourth joint three-quarters as long as third, 

 enlarging evenly and rather strongly distad. Pronotum with mar- 

 gin above head transverse, showing a very feeble convexity, caudal 

 margin transverse very broadly and weakly convex, lateral margins 

 evenly convex; first pair of impressions on disk situated slightly 

 cephalad of the median line and parallel to the normally placed latero- 

 caudal sulci. Tegmina with greatest width at apex of anal field, 

 thence narrowing very feebly to distal portion where the narrowing 

 is more decided, particularly on the sutural margin, with apex sit- 

 uated slightly beyond the median point toward the costal margin. 

 Wings with (12) thickened costal veins; ulnar vein with six branches, 

 two of which again divide before the margin of the wing. Sixth 

 tergite subchitinous in median portion, with a small, rounded prom- 

 inence mesad near the caudal margin of the preceding tergite, the 

 bases of which prominence latero-cephalad are supplied on each 

 side with a minute tuft of agglutinated hairs. Supra-anal plate 

 triangularly produced, with apex curving ventrad and broadly 

 rounded, length two-fifths distance between cereal bases. Cercus 

 with ten joints, the tenth moderately elongate oval. 8 Subgenital 

 plate moderately asymmetrical, the sinistral margin situated 

 further caudad than the dextral, straight, transverse to median 

 section; the dextral margin broadly concave oblique to median 

 section; median section with two large and roughly triangularly 

 rounded plates on each side, the sinistral more inset, due to the 

 position of the sinistral free margin, between these the median por- 

 tion of the plate is produced in a large, but no more produced, like- 

 wise roughly triangular plate, the emarginations between this and 

 the styles (developed into plates in this species) rather broadly V- 

 shaped. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora with (6 and 7) 

 short stout spines distad, ventro-caudal margin with (3) heavier, 



8 The sinistral cercus is apparently deformed in the present specimen. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



longer spines in homologous portion of margin. Caudal metatarsus 

 one and one-quarter times as long as combined length of succeeding 

 joints. 



Head and palpi chestnut brown, obscurely vertically streaked 

 with paler on occiput, ocellar spots buffy. Antennae blackish 

 chestnut brown in proximal third, thence hazel. Pronotum black- 

 ish chestnut brown in large truncate-trigonal area, margined very 

 narrowly laterad with warm buff; lateral portions transparent, very 

 feebly tinged with buff. Tegmina weakly translucent, clear solid 

 hazel tinged with chestnut brown, particularly at the humeral trunk 

 and along the costal margin. Wings transparent, anterior field 

 tinged with saccardos umber, heaviest in area of enlarged portion 

 of costal veins, very weak between discoidal and ulnar veins except 

 distad and very weak between unbranched portion of ulnar vein 

 and anal sulcus; radiate field very weakly tinged with saccardos 

 umber, the veins of that color. Dorsal surface of mesonotum, 

 metanotum and abdomen shining and very dark chestnut brown. 

 Cerci dark chestnut brown. Ventral surface and limbs blackish, 

 the subgenital plate and limbs beyond the femora paling to very 

 dark chestnut brown. 



Length of body 15, length of antenna 18.8, length of pronotum 

 4, width of pronotum 5.7, length of tegmen 17.9, width of tegmen 

 5.9, length of wing 15, greatest width of costal field of wing 2, length 

 of cercus 2.9, length of caudal tibia 5.7, length of caudal metatarsus 

 2.1 mm. 



The type of this remarkable insect is unique. 



Euphyllodromia literate (Burmeister) 



1838. Bl[atta] Uterata Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 497. 

 [Surinam [= French Guiana].] 



1839. Blalta alternans Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 114. [ 9 , Cayenne 

 [ = French Guiana].] 



1903. Pseudophyllodromia pavonacea Rehn, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XXIX, 

 p. 262. [ c? ; Bartica, British Guiana.] 



Study of the Guianan material now in the Philadelphia collec- 

 tions and of the literature, furnishes much evidence indicating the 

 above synonymy. Rehn 's pavonacea was described at a time when 

 little material was available, and the generic association of the 

 American Blattidae in chaos. The description of Serville 's alter- 

 nans was thus apparently overlooked, while nothing could be done 

 with Uterata of Burmeister, until much Guianan material could 

 be secured. 



It is unfortunate that Burmeister 's wretched description of 

 Uterata, occupying less than two lines, has a year's priority over 

 Serville 's readily recognizable diagnosis of alternans. 



Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana, 1 cf • 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, October, 1 9 . 



La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, 2 9 . 



Euphyllodromia chopardi 8 new species. Plate XV, figures 1 and 2. 



This species is related to E . fasciatella (Saussure), differing in the 

 slightly larger eyes, slightly narrower interocular space, heavier 

 latero-caudal depressions of pronotal disk, heavier and differently 

 specialized appendages of the male subgenital plate and longer 

 caudal metatarsi. 



In coloration it differs in having the maxillary palpi not immacu- 

 late, as the distal joint is suffused with mummy brown in its ventral 

 marginal portion; the pronotal disk margined with a narrow whitish 

 suffusion and not immaculate, but having two heavy, extensive 

 lateral suffusions of dark brown, which fuse caudad, and the teg- 

 mina with similar translucent and transparent areas, but entirely 

 lacking pearl gray lines and spots. 



Type: d 1 ; Bartica, British Guiana. December 19, 1912. (H. S. 

 Parish. ) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5369.] 



Size rather small, form moderately slender for the genus, delicate 

 structure normal. Head with interocular space (.6 mm.) about 

 three-fifths width between antennal sockets. Ocellar spots small 

 and weakly defined. Maxillary palpi with third joint three-quarters 

 as long as fourth; fourth very strongly triquetrous, widening evenly 

 distad so that it becomes fully two and one-half times as wide as 

 third; fifth joint three-quarters as long as fourth, moderately ex- 

 panded, greatest width near base, ventral margin sub-convex and 

 oblique from that point to apex. Pronotum rather decidedly trans- 

 verse; cephalic margin weakly convex, truncate; lateral margins 

 rather strongly convex, this greatest caudad ; caudal margin trans- 

 verse, but showing an even and very broad obtuse-angulation, with 

 angle very broadly convex; discal sulci very broad but well devel- 

 oped. Tegmen and wings elongate and very delicate. Dorsal 

 surface of abdomen as described for E. decastigmata Hebard, 10 appar- 

 ently characteristic of the genus, sixth tergite very shallowly con- 

 cave in mesal portion, there rather thickly supplied with agglutin- 

 ated hairs. Supra-anal plate strongly transverse, broadly and 

 weakly triangularly produced between the cereal bases, with rounded 

 apex obtuse-angulate. Cercus as in decastigmata, tapering to the 

 acute apex. Paired plate beneath supra-anal plate large and un- 

 specialized. Subgenital plate almost symmetrical, the sinistral mar- 

 gin almost straight, the dextral margin rather strongly concave to 

 the median portion; median portion with two deeply inset, large 



9 In honor of the distinguished Orthopterist, Dr. Lucien Chopard. 

 10 Mem. Am. Ent. Soc. No. 4, p. 84, (1920). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 203 



plates, which are attingent distad; the sinistral as long as broad 

 and nearly triangular, with broad apex rounded; the dextral twice 

 as long as broad and nearly rectangular, with similar apex; fitting 

 tightly between the bases of these styles is a triangular plate, with 

 dextral margin curled slightly caudad and armed with minute, 

 sharp, straight teeth, which slant slightly proximad. Armament 

 of limbs, pulvilli, tarsal claws and arolia as characteristic of the 

 genus. Succeeding tarsal joints only half as long as caudal meta- 

 tarsus. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type, but taken February 10, 1913. 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Agrees closely with type in coloration, color-pattern and in 

 structural features except the following. Interocular space slightly 

 over half width between antennal sockets. Dorsal surface of abdo- 

 men unspecialized. Supra-anal plate very strongly transverse, the 

 free margin very weakly obtuse-angulate convex on each side to 

 the weakly concave median portion. Subgenital plate with lateral 

 margins feebly convex and hardly convergent to opposite cereal 

 bases, thence rounding strongly and oblique, broadly concave to 

 distal portion, which is strongly V-emarginate, the apices thus 

 formed broadly rounded, the emargination occupied by a soft 

 mantle. 



Head, underparts and limbs weak ochraceous-tawny, the occiput 

 slightly deeper than the face, abdomen ochraceous-tawny with 

 styles largely suffused with chestnut brown. Maxillary palpi light 

 buff, the half of the distal joint toward the ventral margin heavily 

 suffused with mummy brown (this showing variation in width in 

 the series), broader on the caudal than on the cephalic face. An- 

 tennae with first joint ochraceous-tawny, succeeding joints blackish 

 mummy brown, the proximal joints sometimes ochraceous-tawny 

 dorsad. Pronotum in all but discal portion transparent, faintly 

 tinged with buckthorn brown and with a weakly defined, narrow, 

 opaque margin of whitish about the disk; disk tawny, with two 

 large suffusions of mummy brown, which unite caudad and send 

 a very short stout ray cephalad into the median paler area. In 

 intensive examples these suffusions almost completely obliterate 

 the paler median area, leaving only a medio-longitudinal line and 

 fleck of ochraceous-tawny cephalad. Tegmina with marginal field, 

 areas between discoidal and median veins and anal sulcus and the 

 two mesal areas between veins of anal field transparent, very faintly 

 tinged with buckthorn brown; remaining portions more heavily 

 tinged with buckthorn brown, becoming cinnamon-brown in proxi- 

 mal area of costal veins proximad and tapering to a weak mars 

 brown suffusion in this area distad; the sutural margin, particularly 

 in the anal field and area between anal sulcus and first vein of anal 

 field, rather heavily suffused with mars brown; a broad suffusion 

 of ochraceous-orange sweeping obliquely across the discoidal field, 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



beyond the apex of the anal field. Wings transparent, iridescent, 

 feebly suffused distad, veins chestnut brown, a median suffusion 

 of chestnut brown in area of costal veins, beyond which the narrow 

 marginal area is buffy. Mesonotum ochraceous-tawny, heavily 

 and extensively suffused with mummy brown in latero-cephalic 

 portions covered by the pronotum, this showing through that trans- 

 parent portion of the pronotum and giving it the appearance of 

 being darkened caudad, with a meso-caudal fleck of warm buff; 

 metanotum similar except that there is no median fleck, but a 

 similar fleck of warm buff on each side caudad of the dark suffusions. 

 Dorsal surface of abdomen ochraceous-orange, the median segment 

 with a heavy transverse suffusion of mummy brown, which in in- 

 tensive examples occupies the entire segment and is blackish. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 

 body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 

 c? 

 Bartica, British Guiana, type 10.3 2.8 3.7 10.3 2.8 

 Bartica, British Guiana, para- 

 types (9) 10.-10.9 2.6-2.8 3.6-3.7 9.6-10.3 2.6-2.8 



Gourdonville, French Guiana 9.2 2.6 3.6 9.8 2.6 



9 

 Bartica, British Guiana, alio- 10 2.7 3.7 9.8 2.8 



type 

 Bartica, British Guiana, para- 9.2-10 .3 2.7-2.7 3.5-3.6 9 . 8-10 2.5-2.6 



tlJDSS ^2^ 



Demerara, British Guiana, (4) 9.9-10.5 2.7-2.7 3.6-3.7 9.7-9.9 2.7-2.7 



Specimens Examined; 20; 12 males and 8 females. 

 Bartica, British Guiana, December 10 to June 12, 1912 and 1913, 

 (H. S. Parish), 10c? , 49, type, allotype, paratypes, [A. N. S. P. ]. 

 Demerara, British Guiana, 1901, (R. J. Crew),4 9 n ,[Hebard Cm.] 

 Gourdonville, French Guiana, October, lcf, [Paris Mus.]. 

 Charvein, French Guiana, November, ld\ [Hebard Cln.]. 



NYCTIBORINAE. 



Pseudischnoptera lineata (Olivier) Plate XI, figure 14. 



1789. Blatta lineata Olivier, Encycl. Method., Ins., IV, p. , 17. [No loc- 

 ality given. 12 ] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 1 cf. 



Kourou, French Guiana, April, 1 cf 1 . 



This strikingly colored and extraordinary species has been dis- 



11 Recorded by Rehn as Pseudophyllodromia obscura Saussure, Proc, Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 264, (1906). 



12 This species has subsequently been recorded from Cayenne and the Antilles, 

 the latter v ery possibly in error. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



cussed at considerable length by Saussure. 13 The following fea- 

 tures have, however, never been given. 



Pronotum very much flattened but with comparatively narrow 

 pale lateral portions showing some slight deflection, greatest width 

 at latero-caudal angles. Tegmina with discoidal sectors almost 

 longitudinal, false longitudinal veins as decided as the veins them- 

 selves and with supplementary false veinlets between these in dis- 

 tal portions. Limbs comparatively short and heavy. Ventro- 

 cephalic margin of cephalic femora armed in distal third with (5 

 and 8) short but decidedly stout spines, terminating in three heavier 

 spines, slightly more elongate in slightly increasing ratio distad, 

 ventro-caudal margin with (4) heavier, longer spines in distal 

 third. Large pul villi present between the rather stout, simple, 

 nearly symmetrical tarsal claws. Median segment with a large, 

 transverse, median depression, formed by the fusion of two circular 

 depressions. 14 Supra-anal plate triangularly produced, with a 

 large, straight, heavy spine directed caudad at each side of the 

 broadly rounded apex. Concealed genitalia including at least 

 three very heavy, slightly curved spines. Subgenital plate as 

 figured. 



Length of body 17-17.6, width of interocular space .9, length of 

 pronotum 4.8-4.8, width of pronotum 6.6-6.5, length of tegmen 

 17.7-18, width of tegmen 5.3-5.7, length of wing 14, width of wing 

 7.7 mm. 



This insect does not belong to the Pseudomopinae, as has been 

 supposed, but is clearly a member of a distinctive group of the 

 Nyctiborinae. This is shown by the general structure, character 

 of tegminal and wing venation, limb characters and type of male 

 subgenital plate, which type is found in numerous species of this 

 subfamily only. The genus does not agree with the majority of the 

 genera of the Nyctiborinae, showing complete absence of pilosity 

 and only very slightly asymmetrical tarsal claws. 



Nyctibora holosericea Burmeister. 



1838. N\yctibora] holosericea Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, 

 p. 502. [Cameta, Brazil. ] 



Gourdonville, French Guiana, 1 cf . 



Charvien, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



The present specimens appear to agree with Burmeister 's two 

 line description of holosericea better than any we have previously 

 seen from South America. Comparing the material here recorded 

 with Central American specimens of N. noctivaga Rehn, the two 

 species, as here recognized, are seen to be very closely related. 



13 Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, p. 66, (1870). 



14 Partially filled with a pale waxy substance, which in drying has become hard, 

 like shellac. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



In the Guianan material the interocellar area is not dark, being 

 as pale as, or paler than, the face; in the specimens of noctivaga the 

 interocular area, to slightly below the ocelli, is very dark, darker 

 than the face in paler examples, as dark as the face when the face 

 is very dark. The dorsal surface of the abdomen is comparatively 

 pale, darkening slightly caudad, without striking markings. In 

 the males the supra-anal plate differs. 



Length of body d* 30, 9 36; length of pronotum o* 8.3, 9 10; 

 width of pronotum cf 12.8, 9 14.1; length of tegmen cf 37.5, 9 

 38.6; width of tegmen cf 13.9, 9 15 mm. 



Paratropes elegans (Burmeister) 



1838. Ph[oraspis] elegans Brumeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 

 493. [Surinam?] 



La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



EPILAMPRINAE. 



Epilampra azteca Saussure. 



1868. Epilampra azecta Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XX, p. 356. 

 [cf, Mexico. 15 ] 

 Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana, 1 o* . 



Epilampra grisea (De Geer) 



1773. Blalta grisea De Geer, Mem. l'hist. Ins., Ill, p. 540, pi. 44, fig. 9. 

 [Surinam. ] 



Charvein, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



Epilampra abdomen-nigrum (De Geer) 



1773. Blatta abdomen-nigrum De Geer, Mem. l'hist. Ins., Ill, p. 538, pi. 44, 

 fig. 5. [[d 1 ], Surinam. ] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 1 o* , 19. 



Epilampra maculicollis (Serville) 



1839. Blalta maculicollis Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 92. [ 9 , 

 Brazil. ] 



La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



Epilampra conspersa Burmeister 



1838. E[pilampra] conspersa Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, 

 p. 505. [Para, Brazil.] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 1 9 . 

 Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana, 1 9 . 

 Tollinche, Maroni River, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



16 The Cuban material, originally included, represented a distinct species. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Hyporhicnoda maronensis new species. Plate XII, figure 5. 



This species is very closely related to H. litomorpha Hebard, 

 from Colombia. Decided similarity is shown by the color and 

 texture of the dorsal surface in the female sex. It differs in the 

 more slender form, head with narrower interocular space and slightly 

 heavier impressed punctae, stronger convexity of the thoracic seg- 

 ments and in the decidedly greater reduction of the limb armament. 



Type: 9 ; La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana. 

 [Paris Museum]. 



Size medium, form elongate and rather narrowly oval for the 

 genus, the greatest width being across the abdomen mesad. Head 

 hidden under pronotum, broad, the reduced eyes widely separated 

 by a distance (1.8 mm.) slightly greater than that between the 

 weakly defined ocellar spots; exposed surface coarsely and rather 

 thickly impresso-punctate, face flattened, very feebly convex, with 

 two transverse impressions just below and between the ocellar areas 

 and showing very slight concavity on each side above the labial 

 suture. Pronotum extending well beyond head, showing a very 

 feeble subcucullate condition, very strongly convex to the scarcely 

 reflexed, narrow lateral portions of the cephalic margin; this margin 

 subcingulate, broadly convex mesad but more strongly so than in 

 litomorpha, with lateral margins broadly convex to the latero-caudal 

 angles, which are rounded and weakly produced caudad, forming 

 an angle of slightly less than ninety degrees; caudal margin broadly 

 convex mesad, showing broad and very weak convexity laterad, 

 so that it is nearly transverse. Mesonotum and metanotum with 

 latero-caudal angles produced and sharply rounded. Entire dorsal 

 surface apparently smooth, somewhat polished, but under high 

 magnification seen to be supplied with minute flattened rounded 

 rugae, these slightly more apparent on the caudal margins of the 

 segments, so that they appear very finely beaded. Tegmina and 

 wings absent. Supra-anal plate heavily chitinous, over twice as 

 broad as long, the free margin convex, showing slight flattening 

 laterad and a trace of median emargination. Cerci very short 

 and lamellate, scarcely projecting beyond the body outline. Sub- 

 genital plate very large. Limbs showing very decided atrophy of 

 armament. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora armed with 

 three heavy spines, succeeded by an irregular row of rather elongate 

 chaetiform spines, terminated by a heavy distal spine. Other ven- 

 tral femoral margins, except caudal margins of caudal femora, 

 which are wholly unarmed, supplied with a single heavy distal spine, 

 all with widely spaced large spiniform hairs. Tarsi heavy, caudal 

 metatarsus as long as combined length of succeeding tarsal joints, 

 with two rows of spines ventrad and more distantly placed spines 

 on the sides. Four proximal tarsal joints supplied with pulvilli, 

 these occupying the entire ventral surfaces except that of the meta- 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



tarsus, the pul villus of which is distal and about twice as long as 

 wide. Tarsal claws simple, symmetrical, with very heavy bases. 

 Arolia absent. 



Dorsal surface blackish brown, the pronotum with a paired suf- 

 fusion of sayal brown, extending a brief distance along the cephalic 

 margin each side of the median point. Head tawny, the face dark- 

 ened to mars brown. Antennae and palpi ochraceous-tawny. Ven- 

 tral thoracic surface and limbs buckthorn brown, the latter with 

 femora tinged with tawny, the tibiae deepening to mars brown in 

 distal portions, spines mars brown. Ventral surface of abdomen 

 deep carob brown, paling to rich chestnut meso-proximad. 



Length of body 28.8, length of pronotum 9.5, width of pronotum 

 12.2, greatest body width 15.6, length of caudal femur 7.1, length 

 of caudal metatarsus 2 mm. 



In addition to the type, a single half-grown female, from Ilet la 

 Mere, French Guiana, is before us. This specimen bears an addi- 

 tional spine on the median portion of the ventro-cephalic margin of 

 the median femora, two similarly situated spines on the caudal fem- 

 ora and four and five proximal spines on the ventro-cephalic margins 

 of the cephalic femora. 



BLATT1NAE. 



Periplaneta brunnea Burmeister. 



1838. P[eriplanela] brunnea Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, 

 p. 503. [cT, 9 : Chile; Demerara, [ = British Guiana]. ] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana. 



PANCHLORINAE. 



Panchlora cubensis Saussure. 



1862. P[anchlora] cubensis Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XIV, p. 

 230. [ 9 , Cuba. ] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, Id", 19. 

 Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana, Id". 

 La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, Id". 

 Ouanary, French Guiana, 1 d" . 



Schizopilia fissicollis (Serville) Plate XII, figure 6. 



1839. Blatta fissicollis Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 85. [ 9 , Cayenne* 

 [ = French Guiana].] 



St. Laurent du Maroni, French Guiana, Id" . 



La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, Id", 39 . 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Depth of Length of Width of 

 body pronotum pronotum pronotal tegmen tegmen 



d" fissure 



St. Laurent 33.5 10.7 18. 3.1 31.8 15.2 



La Forestiere . 39.7 11.9 20. 3.9 34.7 17. 



9 



La Forestiere 38. 11. 18.7 3.6 32.7 16. 



La Forestiere 38. 11.1 19.7 3.7 33. 16.7 



La Forestiere 39.8 11.7 20. 3.7 33.8 16.9 



This very remarkable insect was previously known from the 

 type and a single specimen, sent Guerin by Poey from Havana, Cuba. 

 The latter specimen, with certain others recorded by Guerin, 16 al- 

 most certainly came from South America and was included in the 

 Cuban list in error. 



Three immature individuals are before us from the same local- 

 ity and one from Cayenne, taken in April, 1906, which we believe 

 represent this species. The largest, apparently in the last stage 

 preceding maturity, like the others, shows no trace of lateral pro- 

 notal fissation and is in shape strongly flattened patelliform. 



Zetobora emarginata Burmeister. Plate XII, figures 11 and 12. 



1838. Z[etobora] emarginata Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, 



p. 511, No. 5. [Para, Brazil.] 

 1838. Z[etobora] cicalricosa Burmeister, ibid., p. 511, No. 6. [Para, Brazil.] 



La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, lcf, 1 9 . 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, Id", 19. 



Association of the sexes and comparison with a topotype in the 

 Academy Collection and with the original description, furnish 

 convincing evidence that Burmeister 's emarginata represents the 

 male and his cicatricosa the female of the same species. In this 

 insect the female is slightly larger, with broader pronotum and teg- 

 mina than the male, the lateral angles of the pronotum subemar- 

 ginate caudad, not minutely but distinctly emarginate as in the 

 opposite sex. 



Walker's perspicua is an unquestioned synonym, as indicated by 

 Kirby. That author is, however, incorrect in placing limbata of 

 Brunner under emarginata and it is by no means clear that he is 

 justified in placing rudis of Walker in the same synonymy. 



16 In Ramon de la Sagra, Hist. Cuba, Ins., (1857). 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 



c? body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



La Forestiere, French Guiana 23 . 2 



St. Jean du Maroni, French 



Guiana 21. 

 9 



La Forestiere, French Guiana 22.6 

 St. Jean du Maroni, French 



Guiana 23 . 



Para, Brazil 22.6 



ZETOBORELLA new genus. 



This genus is erected to include the smallest and one of the most 

 remarkable species of those referable to the genus Zetobora and its 

 allies. 



In addition to the small size, the present genus is distinctive in 

 the extremely transverse pronotum, with latero-caudal angles bi- 

 emarginate, the caudal emargination being conspicuous. This 

 shows a further development of the type found in Zetobora emargin- 

 ata Burmeister. The pronotum has the cephalic margin very 

 broadly convex, without being broadly though conspicuously re- 

 flexed, in the latter respect agreeing with species of Tribonidium. 

 The pronotal surface is distinctive in being smooth and polished 

 over its greater portion, the remaining areas impresso-punctate. 

 The tegmina are suddenly emarginate mesad, when at rest leaving 

 the lamellate lateral marginal portions of the third to sixth tergites 

 exposed. The tegmina, though broad, are, as in Tribonidium, much 

 narrower than in Zetobora. 



Genotype. — Zetoborella gemmicula new species. 



Generic Description. Size very small for the group, form broad, 

 but with tegmina much narrower than in Zetobora. Head flat, with 

 face broadly and shallowly concave, dorsal outline semicircular, 

 width between the reduced eyes considerable. Ocelli represented 

 by shallow but moderately large concavities. Distal joints of 

 maxillary palpi very short, the last broad. Pronotum with cephalic 

 margin very broadly convex, caudal margin transverse, latero- 

 caudal angles bi-emarginate ; surface weakly trilobate, showing very 

 feeble reflection toward the lateral portions of the cephalic margin 

 and none mesad, surface smooth and shining except latero-caudad 

 and mesad toward the caudad margin, where it is impresso-punctate. 

 Mesonotum impresso-punctulate in the exposed scutellar area. 

 Tegmina and wings well developed, showing very slight reduction 

 in the female sex. Tegmina with very broad and short marginal 

 field, the scapular field narrowing suddenly and very strongly 

 proximad, discoidal field with veins and numerous cross-veins mod- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



erately irregular, the former radiating. Wings with costal veins 

 almost obliterated beyond the elongate mediastine vein. Abdomen 

 with first to sixth tergites lamellate produced laterad, the first with 

 latero-caudal angles broadly rounded, the second to sixth with 

 these angles produced caudad and sharply rounded, seventh tergite 

 much narrower, eighth with very narrow caudal portion only ex- 

 posed. Supra-anal plate sub-bilobate. Cerci small and moderately 

 slender, with (9 or 10) joints strongly differentiated. Subgenital 

 plate of male of the usual asymmetrical lobiform type, with two 

 simple styles; of female ample, moderately emarginate at cereal 

 bases, truncate distad. Limbs completely unarmed, 17 lacking 

 genicular or other spines, ventro-caudal margins of median and cau- 

 dal femora supplied with well spaced hairs. Four proximal tarsal 

 joints scarcely longer than distal joint, supplied with large pulvilli. 

 Large arolia present between the simple, symmetrical tarsal claws. 



Zetoborella gemmicula new species. Plate XIII , figures 1 and 2. 



The shining surface, smooth and very transverse pronotum and 

 emarginate tegmina, which leave the lateral portions of the dorsum 

 of the abdomen exposed, give this beautiful little insect a very dis- 

 tinctive appearance. 



Type: cf; St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana. April and May. 

 [Paris Museum.] 



In addition to the features discussed above, we note the following. 

 Interocular width three times ocular depth. Fourth joint of maxil- 

 lary palpi half as long as third, fifth joint three-quarters as long as 

 third, greatly expanding, its greatest width equal to length of fourth 

 joint. 18 Pronotum extending well beyond head, with cucullation 

 above head flattened, surface broadly concave before the two latero- 

 caudal emarginations, the first of these very weak and lateral in 

 position, the second decided and caudad in position, twice as long 

 as broad, with angulate-emargination formed sharply rounded at 

 slightly less than a right angle. Tegmina extending slightly be- 

 yond cereal apices. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Paris Museum.] 



Very similar to male, except as follows. Interocular width three 

 and one-half times ocular depth. Maxillary palpi with fifth joint 

 as long as third and wider than length of fourth. Pronotum slightly 

 less strongly transverse, with latero-caudal emarginations less de- 

 cided, so that the caudal emarginations have the angulate-emar- 



17 In the specimens of Tribonidium here recorded the limbs are unarmed except 

 the ventro-cephalic margin of the cephalic femora, which is supplied in distal 

 portion with a row of minute, chaetiform spines, terminated by a single stout, 

 though very small, distal spine. The metatarsus is equal in length to the distal 

 tarsal joint. 



18 Apparently somewhat variable, as in the allotype it is even wider. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



gination formed more broadly rounded at more than a right angle. 

 Tegmina extending almost to cereal apices. 



Head shining blackish brown. Antennae blackish brown, with 

 a very broad buff annulus (including ten to twelve joints) in distal 

 portion. Pronotum shining blackish brown in caudal section and 

 extending cephalad in median convexity above head, remaining 

 portions transparent, tinged with warm buff, the caudal margins 

 of this area transverse laterad, with what appears to be a blackish 

 brown suffusion at the angles, due to the fact that there the blackish 

 brown area extends slightly farther cephalad on the ventral surface 

 than on the dorsal face, cephalic margin very finely blackish brown. 

 Tegmina mummy brown, blackish brown when closed, translucent, 

 except marginal field which is opaque. Wings transparent, tinged 

 with mummy brown, this weak in radiate field. Dorsal surface of 

 abdomen blackish brown, with lamellate lateral sections of second 

 and third tergites warm buff in the female, this marking in the male 

 the same for the third tergite, but reduced to a small spot on the 

 second tergite. 19 Limbs and ventral surface prouts brown, deepen- 

 ing to blackish brown toward the abdominal periphery, but with 

 lamellate ventral portions of second and third tergites warm buff. 



Length of body cf 14 2 °-13, 9 15; length of pronotum tf 1 3.8-3.7, 

 9 3.8; width of pronotum <? 7.2-7, 9 6.7; length of tegmen d* 11.8- 

 12.7, 9 10.8; width of tegmen proximad cf 4.7-4.7, 9 4.4; width of 

 tegmen distad <? 4-4, 9 3.7; width of tegminal marginal field d 1 

 1.8-1.95, 9 1.8 mm. 



The species is known from the described pair aud a paratypic 

 male from St. Laurent du Maroni. 21 



Phortioeca nimbata (Burmeister) Plate XIII, figure 3. 



1838. Z[etobora] nimbata Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. 1, p. 

 511. [Para, Brazil.] 



La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, 2 cf , 1 9 ,1 juv. 

 9. 



Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana, 2cf. 



Pariacabo, French Guiana, 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . 



Charvein, French Guiana, 1 juv. 9 • 



This species was placed by Saussure in what he considered the 

 second division of the genus Zetobora, (Phortioeca) . It unquestion- 

 ably belongs to Phortioeca and not to Zetobora (as assigned by Kirby) 

 This is shown by the type of pronotum, with section above head 

 more distinctly cucullate, cephalic margin not broadly reflexed 



19 The greater portion of this conspicuous pale marking is exposed when the 

 tegmina are at rest, due to the sudden emargination of those organs. 



20 The measurements of the male type are given first. 



21 An immature female from Tollinche, Maroni River, French Guiana, repre- 

 sents this or a related species. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



and greater portion of surface granulate, not everywhere impresso- 

 punctate. The present material agrees fully with Saussure's ade- 

 quate description of his synonymous Zetobora (Phortioeca) castanea. 

 It is of interest to note that the measurements given by Burmeis- 

 ter of the body length of this and the two preceding species are in 

 all cases considerably less than that of specimens subsequently, 

 and apparently correctly, recorded as these species. 



Length of body cf 20.7-23, 9 25; length of pronotum d" 6.2-6.8, 

 9 7.3; width of pronotum d 1 9.7-10.3, 9 11.7; length of tegmen 

 d 1 20.2-21, 9 23; width of tegmen d 1 7.8-8 7, 9 9.7 mm. 



BLABERINAE. 



Blaberus giganteus (Linnaeus) 



1758. B[latta] gigantea Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, I, p. 424. [America.] 

 1802. Blalta colossea Illiger, Mag. Insektenkunde, I, p. 186. [Demerara, 

 [ = British Guiana]. ] 



La Forestiere, upper Maroni River, French Guiana, 1 large juv. cf . 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 2 cf , 1 9 . 



The above synonymy has been recently established by us. 22 In 

 the present specimens the width of the marginal field of the tegmina 

 is: d" 7.2, 9 7.9 mm. 



Eublaberus biolleyi (Rehn) Plate XIV, figure 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. 



1906. Blaberus biolleyi Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 792, 

 fig. 1. [ 9 ; Reventazon River, plains of Santa Clara, Costa Rica. ] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 1 d\ 1 9 , 1 juv. 



These specimens, like a female from Trinidad, in the Hebard Col- 

 lection, differ from the type in having the pronotal markings fused 

 to different degrees. Such is the individual variability in these 

 markings that we feel confident that but one species is represented. 23 

 This species is clearly distinct from E. posticus (Erichson), but the 

 other described species 24 can not be vouched for, until extensive 

 series can be secured. The difficulty is that, at present, there is no 

 means of telling whether the various conditions described, with 

 pronotum more heavily marked and suffused, represent distinct 

 species or, in some cases, merely manifestations of decided intensive 

 coloration in individuals of the same species. 



22 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLVII, p. 148, (1921). 



23 We figure the pronotum of the specimens before us, to show the individual 

 variability of these markings. 



24 In chronological order the species are; 1848 posticus (Erichsen), 1857 sulzeri 

 (Guerin), 1869 femorata (Scudder), 1894 thoracica (Saussure and Zehntner) ( = 

 posticus), 1894 immacula (Saussure and Zehntner), 1903 distanti (Kirby), 1906 

 biolleyi (Rehn). 




214 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



The two specimens here recorded show marked size diversity. 

 Length of body o" 41.5, 9 49; length of pronotum <? 11.3, 9 13.3; 

 width of pronotum cf 16, 9 19.1, length of tegmen cf 40, 9 46; 

 width of tegmen cf 15.7, 9 18 mm. 



CORYDIINAE. 



ODLOPTERYX 25 new genus. 



This genus of comparatively medium-small species is one of the 

 most distinctive found in tropical South America. 



Ocelli are absent, the pronotum is transversely strongly impressed 

 just before the cephalic margin, the pronotum and tegmina are 

 coriaceous and polished, thickly impresso-punctate, except distad 

 on the tegmina and very weakly to well supplied with hairs, the 

 wings are exceptionally large for the body bulk and have a large 

 appendicular field, which is not only folded but curled into a tight 

 roll when these organs are at rest, the ventral femoral margins are 

 unarmed except for a single distal spine on the ventro-cephalic mar- 

 gin of the cephalic femora, while pulvilli and arolia are absent. 



The curled tegmina show a further development of the type found 

 in the Ectobine genus Theganopteryx. The more than usually 

 coriaceous tegmina, particularly in one species, gives to the species 

 a decidedly coleOpteroid facies. 



Taking all of the characters into consideration the genus appears 

 to be an aberrant member of the Corydiinae, and we place it in 

 linear arrangement after Buboblatta Hebard and before Ceuthobiella, 

 here described, though showing a development from a very different 

 stock. 



Genotype. — Oulopteryx meliponarum new species. 26 



Generic Description. Size medium small, form elongate elliptical. 

 Head slightly longer than broad, supplied with a few scattered 

 hairs, eyes well separated, ocelli absent, maxillary palpi rather short 

 and heavy. Pronotum shining, coriaceous, with cephalic margin 

 transverse, caudal margin very broadly and weakly convex, greatest 

 width meso-cauded; surface heavily impresso-punctate and very 

 weakly to well supplied with scattered hairs, with a strong trans- 

 verse impression before the cephalic margin, the discal section ir- 

 regularly bossed, the narrow lateral portion weakly reflexed. Teg- 

 mina fully developed in male, showing slight reduction in female, 

 shining, moderately to decidedly coriaceous, with apex rather sharp- 

 i . . . 



25 From ouXo-XTepu^, in allusion to the curled wings. 



26 Described on page 247. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



ly rounded, surface heavily impresso-punctate, this disappearing 

 meso-distad, without hairs or well supplied with hairs, discoidal sectors 

 longitudinal; veins invisible except in certain lights, except in por- 

 tion of dextral tegmen concealed when at rest, which is subchitinous. 

 Wings very large in porportion to body bulk, costal veins not clubbed, 

 discoidal and median vein forming an elongate acute ellipse, crossed 

 by numerous transverse veinlets, an irregular network of veinlets 

 distad in area between the unbranched ulnar, anal and first branch 

 of the axillary vein; appendicular field with basal line rounded 

 obtuse-angulate, length nearly equal to width in males, length 

 distinctly less than width in females, this area folding and curling 

 into a tight roll when at rest; radiate field folding fanwise. Dorsal 

 surface of male abdomen with median segment specialized. Cerci 

 short, flattened dorsad, lateral margins complete. Male subgenital 

 plate symmetrical, with similar, unspecialized styles. Female sub- 

 genital plate valvular. Limbs with femora unarmed except as 

 follows: cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic margin supplied dis- 

 tad with minute, piliform but well separated spines, or lacking these, 

 with a single elongate heavy distal spine ; median and caudal femora 

 with a similar distal spine on both ventral margins. Tarsi pilose 

 ventrad, lacking pulvilli, caudal metatarsus as long as combined 

 length of succeeding joints. Tarsal claws delicate, symmetrical, 

 unspecialized; arolia absent. 



Oulopteryx dascilloides 27 new species. Plate XV, figures 5, 6. 



This species, though congeneric, differs in many respects from 

 0. meliponarum, with which it is compared on page 247. 



The blackish brown, usually coriaceous pronotum and tegmina 

 and general contour strongly resemble certain species of Coleoptera. 



Type: cf ; Pariacabo, French Guiana. [Paris Museum.] 



In addition to the characters given in the generic description, 

 we note the following. Size smaller, form not as elongate as in 

 meliponarum. Head somewhat shorter than in that species, very 

 slightly longer than broad. Interocular space three-quarters 

 width between antennal sockets. Maxillary palpi shorter than in 

 meliponarum. Pronotum smaller, discal boss stronger and giving 

 the pronotum a decidedly less flattened appearance. Tegmina 

 extending beyond cereal apices, decidedly coriaceous, sutural and 

 costal margins rather strongly oblique to rounded apex in distal 

 third. Wings with rolls of folded appendicular field lying obliquely. 

 Median segment rather strongly impressed meso-proximad, with 

 a short transverse ridge mesad on each side, the impressed area in- 

 vaded by a blunt angulation meso-caudad, with a heavy tuft of 

 agglutinated hairs springing from the depression in front of that 

 point, directed cephalad. Supra-anal plate with length approxi- 



27 In allusion to the superficial resemblance shown by this species to members 

 of the coleopterous genus Dascillus. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



mately equal to one-third basal width, lateral margins weakly con- 

 cave and convergent to broadly rounded median portion, except 

 in a very small area mesad where a small rounded production oc- 

 curs, the surface of this concave, the entire distal margin well sup- 

 plied with elongate hairs. Concealed genitalia not visible in this 

 specimen. Subgenital plate nearly symmetrical, the lateral mar- 

 gins convergent, the sinistral very feebly convex, then as feebly 

 concave, the dextral as feebly concave to the style sockets, between 

 these the distal margin is roughly broadly convex, weakly oblique 

 in proximal portions, mesad truncate but when seen in caudal as- 

 pect as weakly obtuse-angulate ventrad, the angles formed all 

 rounded. Styles similar, simple, straight, cylindrical, rounded at 

 apex, each about two and one-half times as long as its width, 

 slightly over one-quarter as long as the distance between the style 

 bases. Limbs very slightly heavier and shorter than in meliponarum. 

 Cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic margin supplied distad with 

 a very few, minute, piliform spines, which are scarcely distinguish- 

 able, terminated by a single elongate distal spine. Caudal meta- 

 tarsus equal to combined length of the succeeding tarsal joints. 



General coloration shining blackish chestnut brown, paling to 

 hazel along costal margin. Tegmina, when held against light, chest- 

 nut brown paling to hazel along costal margin. Wings transparent, 

 almost colorless, veins buffy, costal veins distad opaque, ochraceous- 

 buff. Dorsal surface of mesonotum, metanotum and abdomen 

 buffy, the latter suffused with blackish chestnut brown laterad and 

 in broad distal portion. Head shining blackish chestnut brown, 28 

 mouthparts and limbs mars brown, coxae and abdomen, except 

 proximo-mesad where it is slightly paler, blackish chestnut brown. 



Length of body 7.7, length of pronotum 2.2, width of pronotum 

 2.9, length of tegmen 7.1, width of tegmen 2.7, length of caudal 

 tibia 2.4 mm. 



The type is unique. 



Latindia dohrniana Saussure and Zehntner. 



1894. Latindia dohrniana Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Am., Orth., 

 I, p. Ill, pi. V, fig. 7. [ 9 , Guatemala. ] 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



Previously known from tropical Mexico to Panama, an additional 

 female from Trinidad is before us. 29 Thepronotal proportions of 

 these two specimens are identical, length 1.8, width 2.05 mm. 



Sphecophila polybiarum (Sbelford) 



1907. Sphecophila polybiarum Shelford, Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 1906, p. 

 518. [ cf ; Sainte Marie, Oyapock [River], French Guiana. ] 



28 The antennae are missing. 



29 Recorded by Bruner as L. castanea Brunner (Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XIV, p. 

 143, (1906).), which name is very possibly a synonym, as Brunner 's pronotal 

 measurements for the female type from Balthazar, Granada, (length 1.5, width 

 1.3 mm.), alone disagree and may easily be incorrect. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



Sainte Marie, lower Oyapock River, French Guiana, 1900, (F. 

 Geay; in nest of wasp, Polybia pygmaea Fabricius), 1 d% 4 juv., 

 topotypes, taken with type. 



It would appear that fifteen specimens in all were secured from 

 the same nest, eleven of them being adult males. 



Holocompsa nitidula (Fabricius) 



1781. B[lalta] nitidula Fabricius, Spec. Ins., I, p. 345, [[9], Surinam.] 



Demerara, British Guiana, 1901, (R. J. Crew), 4 cf, 49, [He- 

 bard Cln.] 



St. Georges, Oyapock River, French Guiana, 1 cT. 



OXYHALOINAE. 



Chorisoneura lata Rehn. 



1916. Chorisoneura lata Rehn, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLII, p. 253, pi. XV, 

 figs. 28 to 30. [ & ; Para, Brazil. ] 



Gourdonville, French Guiana, 1 9 . 



This specimen is more intensively colored than the type. In this 

 genus, which includes a multitude of species, often very closely re- 

 lated, we believe the present association to be correct, though it 

 is impossible to be certain without males from the same locality. 



In the male type of lata, the head coloration is destroyed, traces of 

 a paler band between the eyes and a pair of dark flecks alone being 

 discernible. In the female at hand the head coloration is apparent- 

 ly as it would be in the type, had its coloration been retained. 

 Head with occiput ochraceous-tawny, terminating in a straight 

 line between the eyes, upon which are situated two slightly im- 

 pressed dots of dark brown, below this is a band of buff which widens 

 slightly laterad, in that portion having a larger impressed dot of 

 dark brown on each side, below this band the face is pale ochraceous- 

 tawny. 



Compared with C. panamae Hebard, this cephalic marking is seen 

 to differ principally in having the more widely separated pair of 

 dots, the larger and the pale areas confined to a transverse band in- 

 stead of spreading ventrad over the face. 



Chorisoneura guianae new species. Plate XIV, figures 11 and 12. 



This species is closely related toC. lata Rehn, 30 differing in its 



30 Referred to the Pellucida Group by Hebard, Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 4, p. 

 127, (1920). In addition to the species assigned to that group, C. poststriga 

 (Walker) also apparently belongs. From the description of that species it may 

 be distinguished from the present by the dark face and differently colored teg- 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part II 



very slightly smaller size, distinctive and unspotted cephalic mark- 

 ing, pronotum with disk proportionately smaller when compared 

 with the ample lateral portions and tegmina with venation broadly 

 pale in all portions, so that the small remaining darker areas give 

 these organs a delicately tessellate appearance. 



Type:<?; Bartica, British Guiana. April 14, 1913. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 537.] 



Size rather large for the genus, form depressed, in outline elongate 

 elliptico-ovoid. Head broad, decidedly depressed; from the dor- 

 sum practically the entire occiput and cephalic half of the eyes are 

 seen to be exposed, occipital outline truncate, the eyes almost im- 

 perceptibly projecting beyond the interocular area; interocular 

 space broad (.6 mm.), one and one-half times occipital ocular 

 depth, about four-fifths as wide as space between antennal sockets. 

 Maxillary palpi with third joint elongate and slender; fourth joint 

 three-quarters as long as third; fifth joint slightly longer than 

 fourth, moderately enlarged. Pronotum transverse elliptical, 

 with a marked rectangulate tendency, due to the wide and strongly 

 transverse cephalic and caudal margins, cephalic margin showing 

 a trace of convexity only above the head, caudal margin showing a 

 very feeble convexity, lateral margins broadly convex, rounding 

 evenly into cephalic and caudal margins; greatest width mesad; 

 disk with a shallow medio-longitudinal impression and a pair of 

 brief oblique sulci laterad, very slightly but appreciably smaller 

 in proportion to lateral portions than in lata; lateral portions 

 weakly declivent cephalad, where the surfaces are very shallowly 

 concave, weakly bossed over tegmina. Tegmina elongate, extend- 

 ing briefly beyond cereal bases, greatest width at proximal third, 

 thence narrowing evenly to near the sharply rounded but acute apex; 

 marginal field very broad; costal veins (17) with a number of false 

 veinlets between, discoidal sectors (16) strongly oblique. Wings 

 with intercalated triangle forming an angle of appreciably less than 

 ninety degrees. Sixth abdominal tergite with a very shallow 

 round depression mesad, rather thickly supplied with minute agglu- 

 tinated hairs. Supra-anal plate damaged in this specimen. Sub- 

 genital plate with flattened bases of the shallowly inset styles 

 occupying almost all of free margin; styles very elongate, nearly 

 three times as long as basal width, broad at base, tapering to the 

 lamellate and rather sharply rounded apices, unarmed on external 

 surfaces. Between the styles the median portion of the plate is 

 produced in a very slender, chitinous shaft, three-quarters as long 

 as one of the styles, showing a very slight and even curvature cau- 

 dad throughout its length and tapering to the aciculate apex. 

 Limbs and their armament, tarsi, claws, pulvilli and arolia as 

 characteristic of the genus. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type, except taken December 11, 1912. 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 






1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Agrees closely with type. Tegmina slightly shorter. Inter- 

 ocular space slightly wider. Supra-anal plate triangularly pro- 

 duced, strongly notched at apex, this rounded emarginate, deeper 

 than wide, the two sharply rounded portions thus formed with sur- 

 faces moderately convex, lateral margins feebly concave. Sub- 

 genital plate ample, narrow distal portion reflexed, longitudinally 

 cleft mesad. 



Head with vertex to point of least width between eyes auburn, 

 the line of demarcation there sharp, weakly convex dorsad in 

 male, transverse in female, face whitish buffy shading to ochraceous- 

 buff ventrad. Antennae in males mummy brown in proximal 

 fourth, thence much paler, buckthorn brown, in female pale buck- 

 thorn brown throughout. Pronotum with marginal portions trans- 

 parent, very faintly tinged with ochraceous-buff ; disk tawny, mesad 

 with a pair of small, parallel, longitudinal markings of ochraceous- 

 buff. In the female the disk is russet laterad, the area between and 

 about these markings alone tawny. Tegmina transparent, marginal 

 field and along costal margin very faintly tinged with ochraceous- 

 buff, the veins and veinlets in the other portions (except the hum- 

 eral trunk for a brief distance proximad, where it is ochraceous- 

 tawny) all broadly defined in this color, the very small intervening 

 areas in these portions weakly tinged with ochraceous-tawny, this 

 giving the tegmina a delicately tessellate appearance. Wings 

 transparent very faintly tinged with buff, except in proximal por- 

 tion of costal veins (strongly tinged with prouts brown in this area 

 in the intensively colored allotype) and about the intercalated 

 triangle, where they are weakly tinged with ochraceous-tawny, the 

 enlarged (distal) portions of the costal veins whitish. Limbs och- 

 raceous-buff. Ventral surface pale orchraceous-buff, showing a 

 whitish bloom. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length Length Width Length Width 



of of of of of 



c? body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Bartica, British Guiana, type 11. 2.2 3.5 9.8 3. 



Cayenne, French Guiana, paratype 10.7 2.2 3.55 10. 3.15 



9 



Bartica, British Guiana, allotype 10. 62. 3 3.6 9.3 3. 



In addition to the described pair, a paratypic male from Cayenne, 

 French Guiana, property of the Paris Museum, has been examined. 



Chorisoneura barticae new species. Plate XIV, figure 13. 



This insect may be distinguished from the multitude of related 

 species by the small size (tegminal length 8 mm. or less), the dis- 

 tinctively marked head, nearly unicolorous pronotum, which is 

 obscurely paler mesad, unicolorous tegmina except for the paler mar- 

 gins and male styles, which are developed as foliaceous plates taper- 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



ing distad to their acute apices and less than twice as long as broad, 

 between the bases of which the subgenital plate is triangularly- 

 produced and unarmed. 



To the known Panamanian species it will be seen that nearest 

 affinity is with C. cabimae Hebard, that species differing in the mark- 

 ing of the head, wider interocular space, very much more elongate 

 fourth joint of maxillary palpi and differently shaped male styles. 



Type: <? ; Bartica, British Guiana, January 10, 1913. [H. S. 

 Parish.] [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Type no. 5370.] 



Size medium for the small species of the genus; form depressed, 

 surface glabrous. Head with occiput largely exposed. Interocular 

 space (.45 mm., in cabimae .55 mm.) two-thirds the width be- 

 tween the antennal sockets. Maxillary palpi with fifth joint 

 slightly shorter than fourth, fourth joint approximately four-fifths 

 as long as third. Pronotum transverse, subelliptical; greatest 

 width meso-caudad; cephalic and caudal margins transverse, 

 feebly convex; latero-cephalic angles distinctly more broadly 

 rounded than latero-caudal angles. Tegmina surpassing apex of 

 abdomen by about the pronotal length, strongly elongate lanceo- 

 late, with apex sharply rounded, distinctly more acute than in 

 cabimae; discoidal vein with numerous branches, the more distal 

 of which are subobsolete; discoidal sectors (9) oblique. Wings and 

 venation very delicate; appendicular field nearly as long as broad, 

 basal outline forming very slightly more than a right angle ; costal 

 veins moderately heavily clubbed distad. Dorsal surface of abdo- 

 men with sixth segment weakly specialized mesad, as characteristic 

 of the genus. Supra-anal plate strongly transverse, very weakly 

 triangularly produced. Subgenital plate with lateral portion of 

 free margin weakly oblique, nearly transverse, straight to the two 

 short styles, which are deeply inset, between these the subgenital 

 plate is minutely triangularly produced and unarmed. Styles 

 heavy, nearly twice as long as greatest width near base, 31 the lat- 

 eral margins from that point to the small apical portion, which is 

 formed by a folding over of the style, forming a small triangular 

 apex, directed dorso-laterad. Limbs and their armament, pulvilli, 

 tarsal claws and arolia as characteristic of genus. 32 



Allotype: 9 ; same dataastype, except taken on January 30, 1913. 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Agrees closely with male, differing in the following features. 

 Interocular space broader (.65 mm.). Tegmina slightly less elon- 

 gate. Dorsal surface of abdomen not specialized. Supra-anal 

 plate triangular and rather strongly produced, with lateral margins 



31 In the male paratype these styles are distinctly shorter than in the type, with 

 contour, however, similar. 



32 Fully described, Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 4, p. 135, (1920). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



broadly concave to the narrowly bilobate apex, the area intervening 

 between these lobes forming an angle as deep as its basal width, with 

 lateral margins weakly concave. Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, 

 with marginal convexity greatest latero-caudad, distal portion 

 sharply reflexed, broad mesad, with a medio-longitudinal cleft, 

 this reflexed portion narrowing rather strongly to opposite cereal 

 bases, where it disappears. 



Head with vertex to between ocellar areas ochraceous-tawny, 

 there this area of coloration is terminated by a very fine, transverse 

 line of mummy brown, below which the face is entirely pale och- 

 raceous-buff and likewise opaque, 33 antennae and mouthparts 

 weakly tinged with translucent ochraceous-buff. Pronotum with 

 marginal portions transparent, faintly tinged with ochraceous-buff; 

 disk ochraceous-tawny, in some examples paling mesad to och- 

 raceous-buff tinged with ochraceous-tawny, this more extensive 

 caudad. Tegmina transparent evenly and weakly tinged with 

 ochraceous-buff. Wings transparent, with a very faint buffy 

 tinge, this becoming stronger in the area of the costal veins and 

 showing a very weak tawny suffusion about the intercalated triangle. 

 Dorsal surface of abdomen ochraceous-buff, faintly tinged with 

 ochraceous-tawny. Limbs ochraceous-buff. Ventral surface pale 

 ochraceous-buff, in the best preserved specimens showing the same 

 opaque whitish condition as found on the face. 



Measurements ( in millimeters ). 



Length Length Width Length Width 



of of of of of 



d" body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Bartica, British Guiana, type 9.34 1.8 2.8 8.1 2.7 



Bartica, British Guiana, paratype 8. 1.8 2.85 8. 2.7 



9 



Bartica, British Guiana, allotype 8. 1.85 2.9 7.8 2.8 



Bartica, British Guiana, paratype 9. 34 1.8 2.9 7.8 2. 75 



Demerara, British Guiana, paratype 34 1.8 2.85 7.8 2.75 



Specimens Examined: 5; 2 males and 3 females. 

 Bartica, British Guiana, I, 10 to 30, 1913, (H. S. Parish), 2 c? , 2 9 , 

 type, allotype and paratypes, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Demerara, British Guiana, 1901, (R. J. Crew,) 1 9 , 35 [Hebard Cln.] 



Section II. Southeastern Brazil. 



This collection is of particular interest, due to the fact that it is 



33 Specimens of the genus, in drying, apparently often lose this whitish pigmen- 

 tation, these areas in such becoming translucent weakly tinged with ochraceous- 

 buff. In such specimens, however, the areas originally more strikingly defined 

 are usually detected with little difficulty. 



34 Abdomen squeezed out, in life probably about 8 mm. in total length. 



35 Recorded by Rehn as Chorisoneura gracilis (Saussure), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1906, p. 271, (1906). 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



in large part from the vicinity of Rio de Janeiro, type locality of 

 many of the older species described from South America. 



As a result, the present study has aided greatly in clearing up the 

 identity of a number of older names. Several of these are of great 

 importance in that they represent genotypic species. Such are; 

 Neoblattella adspersicollis, Liosilpha pumicata, Phoraspis picta, 

 Petasodes mouffeti, Monastria biguttata, Brachycola tuberculata and 

 Parahormetica bilobata. 



The 155 specimens treated, represent 27 genera and 38 species, 

 of which 3 genera and 9 species are new. 



Among the new species described, Dasyblatta thaumasiahom~PeLr&, 

 and Oulopteryx meliponarum from near Passa-Quatro, Minas Geraes, 

 represent extremely unusual types. The latter species is of addi- 

 tional interest, in being the first Blattid known to be symbiotic 

 with bees. 



ECTOBIINAE. 



Anaplecta bivittata Brunner. 



1865. A [naplecta] bivittata Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 63. [ 9, Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 800 to 900 meters, 1 cf. 



Though in a poor state of preservation, the present specimen is 

 seen to agree closely with a male, previously recorded by Rehn, 

 from Para, Brazil. The squarely truncate tegminal maculation is 

 a striking feature of coloration in the species. Slightly darker 

 transverse suffusions across the face, suggested in these specimens, 

 may prove to be a more conspicuous feature of coloration in better 

 preserved material. Length of body 5.6, length of tegmen 5.3 mm. 



Anaplecta xanthopeltis new species. Plate IX, figures 1 and 2. 



This insect appears to be closely related to A . fusca Shelf ord, des- 

 cribed from a unique female from Cachabi, Ecuador. The present 

 male differs from the description of that species in the larger size, 

 pale head and pronotum and in features of wing venation. 



In the present specimen the interval between the discoidal vein 

 and its branch caudad 36 is wider and is crossed by three transverse 

 veinlets, this area being very weakly defined distad, the branching 



36 In Shelford's description of fusca termed the " medio-discal ." field, though the 

 area so termed elsewhere and designated as the medio-discoidal field by us, is 

 shown by that author's figure of fusca to be the area caudad of that to which he 

 has referred. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



of the axillary vein is regular, while the anal vein in the appendic- 

 ular field curves strongly toward the caudad margin distad. 



The male of fusca will probably show other differences of more 

 diagnostic value than those of the wing venation. 



Type: cf ; Rio Itaya, Peru. 37 February. [Paris Museum.] 



Size small for the genus of very small species, form relatively 

 moderately slender, coleopteroid. Head distinctly longer than 

 broad, with no distinct ridge above ocellar areas, ocellar spots 

 subobsolete 3i Pronotum almost perfectly oval, surface weakly 

 convex. Tegmina comparatively narrow, rather strongly chitinous, 

 venation inconspicuous, costal margin very feebly convex proxi- 

 mad, thence nearly straight to distal portion, where it is oblique 

 and more markedly convex to the acute-angulate though bluntly 

 rounded apex, this apex situated beyond the axis of the tegmen 

 toward the sutural margin. Wings very elongate and narrow, over 

 twice as long as greatest width, costal veins (five) straight and 

 scarcely thickened distad, medio-discoidal area with two transverse 

 veinlets, the more distal heavy and appearing as a gradual curvature 

 of the discoidal vein to join the median vein, this veinlet sending 

 three veinlets distad; appendicular field in length slightly over two- 

 fifths that of remaining portion of wing, length equal to width. 

 Supra-anal plate with free margin broadly convex, about twice as 

 wide as long; dorsal surface with a delicate transverse ridge mesad, 

 which bears mesad on its cephalic face a tuft of microscopic hairs, 

 cephalad of which it is concave, the caudal margin of the preceding 

 tergite being roundly emarginate about this concavity. Subgenital 

 plate simple, bearing two very minute, short, simple, conical styles. 

 Limbs and their armament, tarsal claws and arolia as character- 

 istic of genus. 



Head light ochraceous-tawny, suffused with mummy brown 

 laterad above the clypeus, maxillary palpi dresden brown, with dis- 

 tal joints deepening to mummy brown. Antennae deep dresden 

 brown. Pronotum with disk immaculate light ochraceous-tawny, 

 lateral portions transparent, tinged with buff. Tegmina deep 

 chestnut brown, except the narrow marginal field, which is trans- 

 parent, tinged with buff. Wings tinged with mummy brown, this 

 weak proximad, very heavy in distal portion of anterior field and 

 anterior portion of radiate field. Ventral surface of abdomen 

 buffy brown mesad, shading to prouts brown laterad. Limbs and 

 cerci ochraceous-buff, the cephalic tibiae and tarsi weakly suffused 

 with brown. 



Length of body 5, length of pronotum 1.2, width of pronotum 

 1.6, length of tegmen 3.9, width of tegmen 1.3 mm. 



37 We describe this species here, as it is one of the two new species in the Paris 

 Museum collection from Peru, both of which are indeed representatives of the 

 fauna of the upper Amazonian drainage. 



38 Possibly due to discoloration. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



The type of this handsome, though plainly bicolored species, is 



unique. 



DASYBLATTA 39 new genus 



This genus is erected to include two anomalous species, thaumasia, 

 described on page 225, and chopardi, described on page 257, appar- 

 ently referable to the Group Blattellae, but exceptionally distinc- 

 tive in being clothed with microscopic hairs and in having the in- 

 tercalated triangle curled and tubuliform when at rest. 40 



The insect further shows decided similarity to some of the smaller 

 species of the genus Ischnoptera, belonging to the Group Ischnop- 

 terae, in the general contour, and particularly that of the head and 

 pronotum. 



In linear position we place Dasyblatta after Platylestes and before 

 Chromatonolus, no close relationship to any previously described 

 genus, however, being indicated. 



Genotype. — Dasyblatta thaumasia new species. 



Generic Description. Based on the male sex. Size small, form 

 slender, structure not as delicate as is usual in the Group, entire 

 surface, when tegmina are closed, decidedly hairy. Interocular 

 space rather broad to decidedly narrow; ocelli distinct, with flat 

 surfaces of ocellar areas forming a rather sharp angle with the 

 interocellar space. Eyes extending ventrad nearly to maxillary palpi. 

 Maxillary palpi comparatively short, with fifth segment longest 

 of all. Pronotum moderately convex, laterad decidedly so to the 

 very narrowly concave lateral portions, disk with two broad but 

 distinct sulcations mesad, which converge caudad; cephalic margin 

 transverse, much broader caudal margin weakly convex, point of 

 greatest width meso-caudad. Tegmina and wings fully developed. 

 Tegmina hirsute, anal field very elongate, discoidal sectors longi- 

 tudinal. 41 Wing with costal veins not enlarged, discoidal and un- 

 branched median vein connected by numerous transverse veinlets; 

 ulnar vein with (1) complete branch, showing numerous transverse 

 veinlets and very numerous bases of these toward fold of the wing, 

 intercalated triangle very broad and conspicuous, curling in a tube 

 when the wings are at rest. Dorsal surface of abdomen unspecial- 

 ized. Subgenital plate with a process sinistro-proximad, which 

 lies outside of, and alongside, the cereal base. Limbs heavy for the 

 group. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora armed with a 



39 From Sacru-/3\xrT3 ■ A hairy cochroach. 



40 In these features only, agreement with the genus Oulopteryx, described in 

 the present paper and assigned to the Corydiinae, is shown. The ensemble of 

 characters, however, leads us to believe that the present genus is a member of 

 the Pseudomopinae. 



41 In the specimen described as D. chopardi on page 257, the discoidal sectors of 

 the dextral tegmen toward the sutural margin are, however, moderately oblique. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



few well-spaced, heavy spines, succeeded by a row of (15-17) 

 minute chaetiform spines, terminating in three heavy spines, very 

 elongate, in increasing ratio distad. Ventro-caudal margin of 

 cephalic femora armed with (1 median, 1 subdistal and 1 distal) 

 heavy, elongate spines. Other femoral margins well supplied with 

 heavy elongate spines. Four proximal tarsal joints supplied distad 

 with minute, simple pulvilli. Tarsal claws simple, symmetrical. 

 Very small arolia present. 



Dasyblatta thaumasia new species. Plate IX, figures 9, 10 and 11. 



The many astonishing characters of this insect are discussed in. 

 the generic treatment. The male sex only is known. 



Type: cf ; Para, Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., Type no. 5377.] 



In addition to the characters given in the generic description, the 

 following are noteworthy. Interocular space slightly over one- 

 quarter occipital ocular depth, about one-third width between 

 antennal sockets; impressed punctae, the sockets of hairs, particul- 

 arly conspicuous in the inter-ocular-ocellar area. Third joint of 

 maxillary palpi slightly shorter than the large fifth joint, slightly 

 longer than the fourth joint. The hirsute tegmina have, to the 

 naked eye, a coriaceous appearance, due to the fact that the hairs 

 are not visible except under the microscope; area of dextral tegmen, 

 concealed when at rest, without hairs; discoidal sectors (8 and 9) 

 longitudinal. Wings with distal portion of anterior margin hirsute. 

 Metanotum with a minute subchitinous projection mesad on the 

 caudal margin, which is twice as long as broad; large and very de- 

 cided rounded ridges diverge from this across the median segment, 

 terminating before the latero-caudal portions of that segment. 

 Seven proximal tergites with latero-caudal angles rectangulate 

 and sharply rounded. Eighth tergite narrowly visible, normal 

 dextrad but with sinistral folded portion (including the latero- 

 caudal angle) strongly produced beside the super-anal plate to near 

 the cereal base. Supra-anal plate two-thirds as long as proximal 

 width, weakly chitinous in distal portion; lateral margins straight, 

 parallel, to bases of cerci, straight and strongly oblique to within 

 these, the remaining portion roundly produced, showing a weak indi- 

 cation of a symmetrical, trapezoidal contour. Springing from the sin- 

 istral base of the subgenital plate and from within the production 

 of the eighth tergite, a straight, cylindrical, chitinous process ex- 

 tends caudad along the outer margin of the cercus nearly as far as 

 does the supra-anal plate, this process six times as long as thick, 

 with apex moderately enlarged and bearing a cluster of elongate, 

 straight, chaetiform spines. Subgenital plate with all but base 

 of sinistral portion curled upward to just within and beneath sinis- 

 tral cercus, bearing on its internal surface a stout conical project- 

 ion which terminates in several adjacent, very elongate chaetiform 

 spines, directed mesad, the margin of this portion weakly curved, 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



rounding at its extremity, then declivent to the not upcurled median 

 portion of the plate, the median section of the margin undulate, 

 bearing in its median depression a small, cylindrical process (sinis- 

 tral style) slightly longer than wide, directed dorsad and armed 

 with two sharp, slender spines, which curve weakly sinistrad; bear- 

 ing in its dextral depression a much more elongate process (dextral 

 style) which is sinuous, directed dorso-mesad and terminating in 

 a sharp, slender spine; beyond the dextral, portion of the plate is 

 strongly curled upward and inward, overhanging the dextral style 

 and folded beneath the cereal base, its margin broadly convex. 



Head with occiput to above ocelli auburn, ocelli light buff; re- 

 maining portions, including proximal antennal joints and palpi, 

 ochraceous-buff with a tawny tinge, with twin weak suffusions of 

 auburn between the antennal sockets. Remaining portions of 

 antennae dresden brown. Pronotum cinnamon brown with a very 

 faintly paler, subobsolete medio-longitudinal line and flecks, lateral 

 portions very narrowly ochraceous-buff with a tinge of buckthorn 

 brown. Tegmina translucent buckthorn brown, very brief mar- 

 ginal field ochraceous-buff with a tinge of buckthorn brown, humeral 

 trunk and between humeral and very brief mediastine vein, cin- 

 namon-brown for a very short distance. Wings transparent, 

 faintly tinged with brown, except in area of costal veins, where they 

 are heavily tinged with dresden brown. Dorsal surface of abdo- 

 men buckthorn brown, mottled with cinnamon brown. Limbs 

 pale orange-yellow, ventral surface of abdomen ochraceous-buff 

 tinged with orange. 



Length of body 10.8, length of pronotum 2.7, width of pronotum 

 3.3, length of tegmen 10.9, width of tegmen 3.3, length of caudal 

 tibia 4.2, length of caudal metatarsus 1.9 mm. 



This diminutive and commonplace looking insect is one of the 

 most highly specialized and distinctive forms of the Blattidae 

 known to us. The type is unique. 



Supella supellectilium (Serville) 



1839. Blatta supellectilium Serville Hist. Nat. Ins v Orth., p. 114. [Mauri- 

 tius.] 

 Bahia, Brazil, IcT, 19. 



Neoblattella janeirae new species. Plate IX, figures 17, 18 and 19. 



Though showing the general structure and color pattern of sev- 

 eral of the larger groups of this genus, this species differs from all 

 others known to us in the armament of the cephalic femora. The 

 ventro-cephalic margin of these members is armed with a row of 

 heavy spines which decrease suddenly in size and length mesad, those 

 distad being very minute and closely placed, but too heavy to be 

 termed piliform. This is seen to agree more closely with the type 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



termed "A," than with type "B," the latter the characteristic 

 armament for the other species of Neoblattella. 



We do not feel warranted in considering this species generically 

 distinct solely on this condition; in numerous other characters 

 janeirae shows much closer affinity to the Conspersa Group than 

 to the genotypic Adspersicollis and other Groups of the genus. 



The very narrow interocular space and symmetrically highly 

 specialized male subgenital plate constitute particularly distinctive 

 features. The proportionately decided amplitude of the organs 

 of flight is only exceeded in males of N. carrikeri Hebard, of the 

 species at hand. 



Though simply and not strikingly colored, this is one of the most 

 interesting species of the genus, due to the unusual armament of 

 the cephalic femora and remarkable specialization of the male 

 supra-anal plate. 



Type: d"; Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Elevation 500 to 1000 

 meters. May. [Paris Museum.] 



Size medium for the genus, form moderately slender. Inter- 

 ocular space comparatively narrow, one-third that between the 

 antennal sockets. Ocellar spots distinct, their surfaces oblique 

 to, but rounding smoothly into, the flattened inter-ocular-ocellar 

 area. Maxillary palpi elongate. Pronotum with surface very 

 weakly convex, greatest width distinctly caudad of median point, 

 caudal margin showing an exceedingly broad and rounded, feeble 

 obtuse-angulate production. Tegmina delicate and elongate with 

 (10 sinistral, 11 dextral) longitudinal discoidal sectors; cross-veinlets 

 distinct, particularly in distal portion, where they are darkened. 

 Wings with mediastine vein and (7) proximal costal veins showing 

 elongate thickened distal portions, ulnar vein with (6) 42 complete 

 branches, intercalated triangle well developed, its width over one- 

 half its length. Dorsal surface of abdomen without distinct 

 specialization, but with meso-caudal section of sixth tergite sub- 

 chitinous in an irregularly triangular area, extending over half 

 the distance to base of the tergite, the sides of which area are con- 

 cave. Supra-anal plate two-fifths as long as basal width, very 

 bluntly triangularly produced, with apex broadly sub-bilobate and 

 lateral margins showing very broad and feeble concavity opposite 

 the cereal bases. Concealed genitalia hidden. Subgenital plate 

 ample, symmetrical, very deeply cleft on each side, the lateral por- 

 tions thus separated, nearly vertical, elongate and very slenderly 

 triangular plates curling outward to their blunt, rounded apices, 

 which extend slightly further caudad than the median production 



42 Two of these branches again divide in the type. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



of the plate; that portion weakly chitinous, roundly produced, 

 leaving a very deep, narrow cleft on each side between it and the 

 lateral portions, snowing a blunt but decided medio-longitudinal 

 carina extending to its small apical portion, which portion is sud- 

 denly directed cephalad, its surface flat, its lateral margins cutting 

 in at the base so that, with the lateral margins of the basal portion, 

 very small but moderately deep concavities are formed. From the 

 bases of the very deep lateral clefts of the subgenital plate spring 

 similar, simple, elongate, straight and nearly cylindrical styles, 

 which, lying in these clefts between the median portion and the 

 lateral portions, extend half the distance to the apices of the lateral 

 portions of the plate, each about five times as long as its proximal 

 width. Cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic margin armed with 

 (4) large, elongate, moderately heavy, well-spaced spines, succeeded 

 by a row of (18) very minute but moderately stout spinulae, ter- 

 minated by three 43 large, moderately heavy spines, elongate in in- 

 creasing ratio distad; ventro-caudal margin armed with (3 and 1 

 distal) spines. Other femoral margins armed with spines, as 

 characteristic of the genus. Caudal metatarsus very elongate and 

 slender, nearly twice as long as the combined length of the succeed- 

 ing tarsal joints. Pulvilli on four proximal tarsal joints small, acute- 

 angulate produced. Tarsal claws symmetrical, the moderately 

 well-developed flange margined with very minute teeth. Arolia 

 between the tarsal claws moderately-well developed. 



General coloration buckthorn brown. Head with occiput 

 ochraceous-buff , with suffused vertical streaks of prouts brown; a 

 broad band of prouts brown between the eyes;ocelli and inter-ocular- 

 ocellar area ochraceous-buff, this extending over face, but weaker 

 and more embrowned ventrad, a small fleck of prouts brown below 

 each ocellar spot, four similar flecks below which are placed in a 

 transverse line showing convexity ventrad, area below antennal 

 sockets suffused with prouts brown, with a fleck of prouts brown 

 on each side meso-ventrad. Antennae clay color. Pronotum 

 transparent, faintly tinged with brown laterad; disk ochraceous- 

 buff, heavily though finely pictured with lines and dots of prouts 

 brown. Tegmina transparent, faintly tinged with brown, except 

 distad and in area of dextral tegmen concealed when at rest where 

 the tinge is darker, mummy brown, this very heavy and blackish 



43 A correction for this character for Neoblattella, as given by us in our key, is 

 necessary, (Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 4, p. 28, (1921).). We find that three 

 heavier distal spines occur in all of the species of the genus before us excepting 

 eudromielloides, berlandi and the numerous species of the Impar Group, in which 

 but two heavier distal spines are shown. In some species virtually an inter- 

 mediate condition is reached, the first of the three distal spines being sufficiently 

 reduced so that it would be counted by some and regarded as one of the series of 

 smaller spines by others. Of the Group Blattellae, Neoblattella is much the larg- 

 est American genus and it is to be expected that much more decided differences 

 will be found between some of its component groups and species than occur 

 in any of the related genera. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



in the inner portion of the area concealed when at rest, the distal 

 veins and veinlets more strongly defined in mummy brown. Wings 

 transparent, faintly tinged with mummy brown, this heavier distad 

 and in area of costal veins ; clubbed portions of costal veins opaque, 

 mummy brown. Mesonotum and metanotum prouts brown with 

 a medio-longitudinal line of whitish, which on each segment expands 

 caudad. Dorsal surface of abdomen clear cinnamon-buff, each seg- 

 ment very heavily suffused with mummy brown lateral. Underparts 

 clear cinnamon-buff, suffused with prouts brown laterad; abdomen 

 with flecks of this color laterad and with a medio-longitudinal suf- 

 fusion of blackish brown, which expands caudad to include the 

 entire subgenital plate. 



Length of body 13.8, length of pronotum 3.3, width of pronotum 

 4.8, length of tegmen 16.2, width of tegmen 4.9, length of wing 14.8, 

 width of wing 8.7, width of intercalated triangle 1.8, length of 

 tibia 6.2, length of caudal metatarsus 2.9 mm. 



The type of this remarkable species is unique. 



Neoblattella platystylata new species. Plate IX, figures 21, 22 and 23; Plate X, figure 1. 



Closely related to N. conspersa (Brunner), the present species 

 agrees in general structure, minute and scattered tegminal dots and 

 general character of specialization of the subgenital plate in both 

 sexes, (figured for conspersa, plate IX, figure 20). 



The styles of the male subgenital plate are much heavier, decid- 

 edly broader than long, while the production of the meso-caudal 

 portion of that plate is much more sudden and pronounced, form- 

 ing there a stout projection. 



The female subgenital plate is specialized very much as described 

 for conspersa on page 261; the inner projections, however, usually 

 produced in but one or two stout spines. 



Though the dark marking of the ventral surface of the abdomen 

 is carried out broadly to the extremity of the subgenital plate in 

 all of the males, the majority of the females have this marking 

 narrower and in individuals of extreme recessive coloration it is 

 greatly reduced, not reaching as far as the base of the subgenital 

 plate. 



As in conspersa, the number and intensity of the dark scattered 

 tegminal dots is individually variable, as is the usually conspicuous 

 pale band below the dark interocular band on the head. 



Type: c? ; Igarape-Assu, Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5376.] 



Size medium small for the genus, slightly larger than the average 

 for conspersa from the same region, form moderately slender. In- 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



terocular space wide, slightly narrower than that between the 

 antennal sockets. Ocellar spots distinct. Maxillary palpi elong- 

 ate, fourth joint four-fifths as long as third, fifth very slightly shorter 

 than fourth. Pronotum with surface very weakly convex, greatest 

 width slightly caudad of mesal point. Tegmina very delicate, 

 with (9) longitudinal discoidal sectors, veins with scattered dark 

 dots, representing the bases of microscopic hairs; cross-veinlets 

 moderately developed, moderately darkened in distal portions. 

 Wings with costal veins heavily clubbed distad, ulnar vein with 

 (3) complete branches, intercalated triangle small. Abdomen with 

 dorsal surface unspecialized. Supra-anal plate weakly triangularly 

 produced, about one-third as long as proximal width with apex 

 broadly rounded. Concealed genitalia including a process ter- 

 minating in a broad whorl, its surface covered with very closely 

 placed, minute spines. 44 Subgenital plate convex and curled dorsad 

 on each side, but broadly and shallowly concave in large median 

 portion, distal margin approximately transverse, on each side pro- 

 duced in short, very broad, styles which fuse with the plate at their 

 bases; between these the plate is produced mesad a nearly equal 

 distance, the sides of this portion slanting upward and the free mar- 

 gins concave oblique to the apex; due to the contour of this pro- 

 duction, its apex appears truncate in ventral aspect, but V-emargin- 

 ate in caudal aspect. Each of the styles is nearly twice as broad as 

 its greatest length, the greatest length being on the internal margin, 

 the roundly truncate, broad apex being in consequence oblique 

 to the caudal margin of the subgenital plate. The apices of these 

 styles are moderately thickly supplied with minute but stout spines, 

 directed caudad and curving ventrad. Limbs, their armament, 

 pulvilli,arolia and tarsal claws as characteristic of the genus. The 

 first three of the five or six microscopic teeth on the margin of the 

 flange of the tarsal claws are relatively decided. 



Allotype: 9 ; same date as type. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 

 Agrees closely with male in size and development of organs of 

 flight, differing as follows. Supra-anal plate with free margin more 

 convex and roundly notched at the apex. Subgenital plate short, 

 scoop-shaped, bearing on each side just within the cerci a small 

 lamellate projection, with truncate apex armed with (5 to 7 in the 

 series) closely placed, chitinous spines, resembling the teeth of a 

 comb; within at the base of this process is another projection 45 the 



44 The concealed genitalia in the species of this group appear to be very delicate. 

 In the great majority of specimens before us these parts are mashed, and in none 

 do they appear to have dried in a normal position. 



45 The series shows that these processes are variable in contour, as well as 

 occasionally having more teeth and in themselves a very weak character to sep- 

 arate this sex of platystylala from the very similar females of conspersa. An 

 average lesser number of teeth on the inner processes of females of platystylata 

 from Para has appeared to us to be a guide to distinguish them from females of 

 conspersa from that locality. It is evident that females of the species of the pre- 

 sent Group will be found as difficult to separate as those of the Impar Group of 

 the genus; determination of female material, without males from the same local- 

 ity, being often out of the question. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



231 



sinistral of these bearing a stout chitinous spine, the dextral armed 

 with two spines. 



General coloration buckthorn brown. Head of this color, a 

 broad transverse band of cinnamon brown between the eyes, 

 sharply delimited ventrad by a much narrower transverse band of 

 cinnamon-buff between and including the ocellar spots, below this 

 with a narrow marginal suffusion of cinnamon brown, which laterad 

 runs down beside the antennal sockets, and another transverse 

 suffusion of the same above the clypeus. 46 Pronotum with disk 

 weak ochraceous-tawny, with the characteristic fine picturing of 

 cinnamon brown, this sometimes very weak, occasionally much suf- 

 fused ; lateral portions transparent, very faintly tinged with brown- 

 ish. Tegmina transparent, very faintly tinged with brownish, 

 particularly along costal margin, the veins with minute scattered 

 dots of prouts brown and with distal cross-veinlets slightly dark- 

 ened except in recessive examples, where even the dots are con- 

 siderably reduced in number. Underparts and limbs buckthorn 

 brown, with flecks of prouts brown on the latter at bases of spines. 

 Ventral surface of abdomen with a broad medio-longitudinal black- 

 ish band, broad on subgenital plate of male, narrow or failing to 

 reach this portion in female. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 

 cf body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



These individuals are exceedingly delicate in structure, the man- 

 ner in which the abdomen has dried having a marked effect upon 

 the body length of the material preserved. 



46 These markings are heavier in intensive examples. As in conspersa, however, 

 the interocellar pale band is always conspicuous except in discolored specimens. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Specimens Examined: 37; 18 males, 18 females, 1 immature in- 

 dividual. 



Bartica, British Guiana, XII, 19, 1912 to III, 15, 1913, (H. S. 

 Parish), 5c?, 3 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, IV and V, 2d\ 1 9 , 1 small 

 juv. 



Charvein, French Guiana, 1 9 • 



Igarap6-Assu, Para, Brazil, 1, 17 to 11, 6, 1912, (H. S. Parish,) 

 11 cf, 13 9 . type, allotype and paratypes, [A. N. S. P. ]. 



NeoblatteHa adspersicollis (Stal) 



1861. Blatta adspersicollis (Stal), Kongl. Svenska Freg. Eugenie's Resa, Zool., 

 I, p. 308. [ cf ; Rio de Janeiro, [ Brazil ]. ] 



Bahia, Brazil, 1 9 . 



Tijuca, Rio de Janerio, Brazil, 600 to 900 meters, 1 cf, 1 9 , 1 juv. 



The specimens from Rio and Bahia show the dark flecks on the 

 face, arranged in nearly transverse lines, as described by Stal; the 

 others have these markings very weak, indicated by fewer and 

 faint suffusions. 



The considerable variation in tegminal length is shown by the 

 following measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 

 cT body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Neoblattella eudromielloides new species. Plate X, figures 2, 3 and 4. 



This handsome little insect is closely related to N. berlandi, des- 

 cribed on page 234, differing in the smaller size, paler head, broader 

 interocular space, pronotum with medio-longitudinal portion nearly 

 immaculate, tegmina with proximal portion of anal sulcus as heavily 

 suffused as costal marginal area toward the discoidal vein and male 

 subgenital plate which, though similar in type of specialization, 

 differs strikingly in the deep concavity of the lateral margins and much 

 smaller cucullate areas protecting the spines which replace the 

 usual cylindrical styles. 



These species, with N. fasciata (Brunner), from a group which we 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



designate as the Berlandi Group, distinguished by their compara- 

 tively graceful structure and strikingly bicolored tegmina. 47 



The superficial resemblance of this insect to Eudromiella bicolorata 

 Hebard is striking; closer examination, however, showing the great 

 differences between these species. 



Type: cf; Passa-Quatro, Rio Las Piedras, MinasGeraes, Brazil. 

 Elevation 1000 meters. [Paris Museum.] 



Size small and form slender for the genus. Eyes large, inter- 

 ocular space nearly two-thirds that between the antennal sockets. 

 Ocellar spots not large but distinct, these and the maxillary palpi 

 much as in berlandi. Pronotum much as in that species, but show- 

 ing latero-cephalic as well as weaker latero-caudal shallow depres- 

 sions. Tegmina and wings fully developed, extending well beyond 

 cereal apices. Tegmina with (6 and 7) longitudinal discoidal 

 sectors. Wings with clubbed apices of costal veins elongate and 

 heavy, ulnar vein with (5) complete branches, intercalated triangle 

 distinct, width one-half length. Dorsal surface of abdomen un- 

 specialized, latero-caudal angles very bluntly rounded. Supra- 

 anal plate transverse, one-third as long as proximal width, feebly 

 obtuse-angulate produced, but with apex moderately bilobate. 

 Subgenital plate nearly symmetrical; 48 lateral portions briefly 

 produced, with straight margins, then suddenly emarginate for 

 an equal distance, forming a projection which is less than rectangul- 

 ate sinistrad, rectangulate dextrad; from these points the plate 

 is again produced and shallowly curled upward, the margins 

 hardly convergent, feebly concave to the broad, transverse apex, 

 the lateral emarginations thus formed being nearly rectangulate 

 and feebly rounded. The lateral portions are thickened and more 

 strongly curled at the latero-caudal angles, thus forming a minute 

 rounded cone, the open base of which is caudad and from within 

 which, springing from its base, on each side, project caudad two 

 minute, strongly curved spines, the apices of which reach the caudal 

 margin. Limb armament, pulvilli, arolia and tarsal claws as given 

 for berlandi. 



Surface shining. Head clay color, the vertex approaching cin- 

 namon-buff, with a very broad interocular band of bister, ocelli 

 buffy, below are three broken bands of bister on the face; the first 

 two each formed by two transverse suffusions which are connected 

 laterad along the antennal sockets, the third formed by four suf- 

 fusions arranged in a line which is strongly convex ventrad. Pro- 

 notum translucent, tinged with cinnamon-buff laterad, with two 

 broad blackish prouts brown longitudinal bands which are separ- 



47 From the description of Phyllodromia minor Brunner, it appears probable 

 that that species is either a member of the present group, or of the genus Eudromi- 

 ella. 



48 The dextral emargination is slightly deeper than the sinistral. 




234 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



ated by a brief distance at the cephalic margin, diverging moder- 

 ately caudad ; median area between these ochraceous-buff with two 

 microscopic flecks of prouts brown caudad. Tegmina translucent, 

 tinged with cinnamon-buff in proximal portions and just beyond 

 discoidal vein in entire costal marginal area, from there to dis- 

 coidal vein suffused with mummy brown, anal sulcus also broadly 

 suffused with mummy brown, this narrowing and becoming sub- 

 obsolete distad, discoidal field weakly tinged with dresden brown 

 in all but proximal portion. Wings transparent, moderately 

 heavily tinged with mummy brown; the narrow area of the en- 

 larged portions of the costal veins, which is broader than in berlandi, 

 light ochraceous-buff. Dorsal surface of abdomen ochraceous- 

 buff, with a weak mottled suffusion of prouts brown. Cerci light 

 ochraceous-buff, the distal joints flecked with black. Ventral 

 surface and limbs light ochraceous-buff, the abdomen with weak 

 brownish suffusions and an impressed fleck of prouts brown laterad 

 on each of the larger segments. Limbs flecked with prouts brown 

 at the bases of the spines, these flecks heavy on the tibiae. 



Length of body 10.7, length of pronotum 2.3, width of pronotum 

 3, length of tegmen 11, width of tegmen 3.2 mm. 



The type is unique. 



Neoblattella berlandi new species. Plate X, figures 5, 6 and 7. 



This species, like N. eudromielloides described on page 232 and 

 N.fasciata (Brunner), has the tegmina distinctly bicolored 



Nearest relationship is with eudromielloides, under which species 

 the two are compared. 



Type : c? ; Upper basin of Amazon River, on frontier between Peru 

 and Bolivia. 49 (From Captain Mailles.) [Paris Museum.] 



Size medium small and form slender for the genus. Eyes promi- 

 nent, interocular space slightly more than half width between 

 antennal sockets, ocellar spots weakly indicated but flattened sur- 

 faces of these areas oblique, rounding into the intervening flattened 

 area; lateral margins of face subparallel to clypeal suture. Max- 

 illary palpi very slender and elongate, the fourth joint gradually 

 widening distad, fifth joint three-fifths as long as fourth. Pro- 

 notum moderately convex to lateral portions, showing a pair of 

 shallow but distinct latero-caudal depressions, caudal margin 

 very broadly convex, showing a very feeble tendency toward 

 an obtuse-angulation. Tegmina and wings fully developed, ex- 

 tending well beyond cereal apices. Tegmina with (9) longitudi- 

 nal discoidal sectors. Wings with clubbed distal portions of (13) 

 costal veins elongate and heavy; discoidal vein with (6) complete 

 branches; intercalated triangle distinct, width equal to one-half 



49 We describe this species here, as it is one of the two new species in the Paris 

 Museum collection from Peru, both of which are indeed representatives of the 

 fauna of the upper Amazon drainage. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



its length. Dorsal surface of abdomen unspecialized, latero-caudal 

 angles very bluntly rounded. Supra-anal plate simple, transverse, 

 curled ventrad, about half as long as width between cerci, free mar- 

 gin concave about cerci, broadly convex in portion between these. 

 Subgenital plate symmetrical, lateral margins broadly convex and 

 forming a weakly defined obtuse-angulation beneath cerci, con- 

 vergent one-quarter the distance between the cerci on each side, 

 there sharply but briefly emarginate and at these points curled in- 

 ward, forming a short cone, the open base of which is caudad and 

 within which, springing from the extremities of the median sec- 

 tion of the caudal margin, project caudad on each side, two minute, 

 slightly curved spines; median section of caudal margin transverse, 

 subchitinous. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora armed 

 with a row of spines which decrease gradually in size distad, ter- 

 minating in two elongate spines, of which the more distal is the 

 longer. Limb armament, pul villi, tarsal claws and arolia as char- 

 acteristic of the genus. Teeth of flange on tarsal claws well de- 

 veloped, the last tooth half as large as the point of the claw. 



Surface shining. Head with vertex blackish brown to ocellar 

 areas, there with a broad transverse band of ochraceous-buff, mar- 

 gined ventrad by a band of blackish brown which is nearly as broad, 

 eyes hazel, antennae and remaining portions of face translucent 

 clay color, the latter with two interrupted bands of blackish brown. 

 Pronotum translucent, tinged with cinnamon-buff laterad, with 

 two broad blackish longitudinal bands which fuse at the cephalic 

 margin and diverge caudad, area between these clay color, with a 

 longitudinal heavily suffused streak and two lateral dots of blackish 

 brown and a dot of cinnamon-buff cephalad. Tegmina translucent, 

 tinged with cinnamon-buff proximad in anal field and beyond to 

 first branch of median vein and also from just beyond discoidal 

 vein in entire costal marginal area, from there to discoidal vein 

 suffused with mummy brown and in entire discoidal field suffused 

 with dresden brown as is the anal sulcus. Wings transparent, 

 rather heavily tinged with mummy brown, the narrow area of the 

 enlarged portion of the costal veins light ochraceous-buff. Dorsal 

 surface of abdomen prouts brown, deepening to mummy brown 

 distad. Cerci dresden brown, tinged with mummy brown proximad. 

 Ventral surface of abdomen dresden brown, maculate with mummy 

 brown. Limbs and spines buckthorn brown, cephalic femora suf- 

 fused dorsad and along ventro-caudal margin with mummy brown, 

 tibiae with blotches of mummy brown at base of each dorsal spine. 



Length of body 11.5, length of pronotum 2.7, width of pronotum 

 3.3, length of tegmen 12.1, width of tegmen 3.3 mm. 



The type is unique. 



LIOSILPHA Stal. 



1874. Liosilpha Stal, Bihang till K. Svensk. Vet.-Akad. Handl., Band 2, 

 No. 13, p. 10. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



This genus, erected to include Blatta pumicata Stal, adspersi- 

 collis Stal 50 and dilatata Saussure, 61 was restricted to the first species 

 by Kirby 's genotypic designation in 1904 52 and briefly diagnosed by 

 Shelf ord in 191 1 63 . 



A specimen of the genotype now before us, enables us to place the 

 genus definitely as an aberrant member of the Group Blattellae, 

 its broad form and moderately, reduced organs of flight giving a 

 rather close general resemblance to the actually very widely separ- 

 ated Old World genus Allacta. 6 * 



We find Liosilpha to be a distinctive genus, showing no close re- 

 lationships, but best placed on linear arrangement after Blattella 

 Caudell. In heaviness of limb armament, convergence toward 

 the normal in the Blattinae is shown, but the ensemble of characters 

 clearly demonstrates the proper assignment to be that indicated 

 above. 



The following generic characters are shown by the female before 

 us. Size medium large for the group, form very broad, structure 

 not as delicate as is usual in the group. Interocular space broad 

 (slightly narrower than that between the antennal sockets), ocellar 

 spots ample but weakly defined. Lateral margins of cheeks weakly 

 convergent ventrad. Maxillary palpi moderately elongate, (fourth 

 joint intermediate in length between third and fifth, the latter 

 with greatest width mesad). Pronotum broad, weakly convex, 

 becoming decidedly convex laterad, caudal margin broadly truncate. 

 Tegmina showing some reduction (extending nearly to the cereal 

 apices in the specimen at hand), moderately corneous, except in 

 area, of dextral tegmen concealed when at rest, with veins not dis- 

 tinguishable unless held up to the light, anal sulcus finely impressed, 

 delimiting the elongate-pyriform anal field, discoidal sectors (6 to 

 8) longitudinal. 55 Wings showing moderate reduction, the vena- 

 tion slightly irregular, (8) costal veins weakly clubbed, median 

 vein (once or twice) forked, ulnar vein with (2 56 ) complete branches, 

 intercalated triangle very weakly developed. Supra-anal plate 

 with apex rather deeply V-emarginate. Subgenital plate simple, 

 short. Cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic margin armed with 



60 Genotype of Neoblatiella. 



61 Belonging to the genus Laliblattella. 

 52 Syn. Cat. Orth., I, p. 96. 



63 Ent. Mo. Mag., (2), XXII, p. 156. 



54 Our statement in 1907, that we did not believe this species to be a member 

 of this group, was due to the fact that, without material for study, the characters 

 as far as described seemed to indicate other association. 



55 We are at a loss to explain Shelf ord 's characterization of these veins as 

 oblique. He apparently had material of pumicata before him, as his comments 

 on the genus agree in all other respects. 



56 One of these again branches. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



a series of decidedly heavy, elongate spines, which gradually de- 

 crease in length distad, terminating in spines which are elongate 

 in increasing ratio distad ; ventro-caudal margin in distal half with 

 (3 and 1 distal) heavy, elongate spines. Other femora with ventral 

 margins armed with numerous heavy, elongate spines, and with 

 very elongate genicular spines. Four proximal tarsal joints sup- 

 plied with large pulvilli. Large arolia present between the simple, 

 very weakly asymmetrical tarsal claws, 



Liosilpha pumicata (Stal) Plate X, figures 9 and 10. 



1860. Blatta pumicata Stal, Kongl. Svenska Freg. Eugenie's Resa, Zool., 

 I, p. 309. [ o 71 ; Rio de Janeiro, [ Brazil ]. ] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



This specimen has the dorsal surface shining, clay color, except 

 for the lateral portions of the pronotum and marginal fields of the 

 tegmina, which are transparent, tinged with cinnamon-buff. The 

 dorsal surface of the abdomen is suffused with bister laterad and 

 distad, leaving the lateral margins of the wider tergites cinnamon- 

 buff. The cerci and limbs are cinnamon-buff, the latter with very 

 small flecks of brown at the spine bases. The ventral surface of 

 the abdomen is more narrowly suffused with bister laterad, with a 

 large pale marginal spot on each sternite, the subgenital plate bis- 

 ter proximo-laterad and opposite the cerci, these latter suffusions 

 extending mesad and connecting, but very weak in median portion. 



Length of body 12, length of pronotum 4.3, width of pronotum 

 5.7, length of tegmen 10.8, width of tegmen 4, length of caudal femur 

 5.2 mm. 



LITOBLATTA new genus. 



This genus is erected to include the single species, "Ischnoptera" 

 brasiliensis of Brunner. 



The males differ from those of Ischnoptera in being of a more de- 

 licate structure, wings with area between discoidal vein and anterior 

 margin broader, unspecialized dorsal surface of abdomen, transverse 

 supra-anal plate and cephalic femora with spines not distinctly 

 biseriate. 



Females differ in having lobiform, lateral tegmina, sixth tergite 

 bluntly triangularly produced over the similarly produced supra- 

 anal plate and almost completely concealing the latter and cephalic 

 femora with spines even less appreciably biseriate than in males. 



The production caudad of a tergite, which almost entirely con- 

 ceals the supra-anal plate in the female sex, is a feature unknown 

 to us for any other species of the American Pseudomopinae. 



In linear arrangement we place this genus before Symploce Hebard, 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



as the first of the known genera of the Ischnopterae having the 

 cephalic femoral spine armament of the uniseriate type. 



Generic Description. Structure of males very delicate, of females 

 strongly chitinous. Head elongate, ocelli distinct; flat surfaces of 

 ocellar areas forming a rather sharp angle with the interocellar space 

 in males, this area much reduced and less distinctly defined in fe- 

 males. Pronotum of male moderatly convex, with oblique sulci 

 present and caudal margin very weakly and broadly convex; of 

 female more decidedly and evenly convex, with caudal margin 

 truncate and showing scarcely any convexity. Tegmina of male 

 fully developed, with discoidal sectors weakly radiating; of female 

 represented by coriaceous lateral pads. Wings of male with area 

 between discoidal vein and anterior margin moderately broad; 

 mediastine vein extending more than half the distance to apex of 

 wing, from which spring a number of the costal veins, none of the 

 costal veins enlarged distad; discoidal vein branching, the forks 

 dividing toward apex of wing; ulnar vein almost straight, with in- 

 complete and complete branches; intercalated triangle small and 

 inconspicuous. Wings absent in female. Dorsal surface of male 

 abdomen unspecialized. Supra-anal plate of male transverse. Fe- 

 male with sixth tergite (PI. X, fig. 17A) bluntly triangularly pro- 

 oduced over the similarly produced supra-anal plate (PL X, fig. 

 17B) and almost completeley concaling the latter. Cephalic femora 

 with ventro-cephalic margin armed with heavy elongate spines, 

 which decrease strongly but irregularly in size distad," terminating 

 in three heavy and elongate spines, elongate in increasing ratio dis- 

 tad. Very small distal pulvilli present on four proximal tarsal joints 

 in males, absent in females. Small arolia present between the elon- 

 gate, slender, simple, symmetrical tarsal claws. 



Litoblatta brasiliensis (Brunner) Plate X, figures 14, 15, 16 and 17. 



1865. I[schnoptera] brasiliensis Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 130, pi. Ill, 



fig. 12. [d\ Brazil.] 

 1897. L[oboptera] laurenziana Giglio-Tos, Bull. Mus. Zool. Anat. comp. 

 Univ. Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 2. [ 9 ; San Lorenzo, Jujuy and Tala. 

 Salta, Argentina.] 



Passa-Quatro, Rio Las Pedras, Minas Geraes, Brazil, 1000 meters, 



I cF. . 



The description shows that Giglio-Tos failed to associate the sexes 

 of brasiliensis, erecting the synonymous Loboptera laurenziana, 

 based on the female sex of the species. 



87 In males of brasiliensis this series may be called uniseriate only because the 

 transition from the heavy elongate proximal spines to the small, but not piliform, 

 distal spines is irregular and not abrupt. In some males a number of the more 

 distal spines, being smallest and of subequal size, might lead one to term the spine 

 armament of this margin biseriate. 



In the females the decrease averages less but shows similar individual varia- 

 bility. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



The large Argentinian series before us is recorded on page 264 

 and a table of measurements for the species is supplied on page 265 

 of the present paper. 



NYCT1BOPJNAE. 



Nyctibora sericea Burmeister. 



1826. Blatta limbata Thunberg, (not of Charpentier, 1825), Mem. Acad. 



Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., X.,. p. 278. 

 1838. Nyctibora sericea Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 501. 

 [Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 



Shelf ord has pointed out that Burmeister 's sericea was the same 

 as Thunberg 's limbata, but failed to note that the latter author's 

 Blatta limbata was preoccupied. 



EPILAMPRINAE. 



Phoraspis navipes Blanchard. 



1837. Phoraspis fiavipes Blanchard, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, VI, p. 291, pi. 

 XI, fig. 2. [Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 500 to 1000 meters, VIII to X, 



19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Phoraspis brachytaenia 58 new species. Plate XV, figure 3. 



This insect is very closely related to P. picta (Drury) and may 

 prove to be a geographic race of that species. It may, however, be 

 quickly recognized by its slightly more slender appearance and 

 shorter tegminal bands. 



Type: cf ; State of Santa Catharina, Brazil. [Hebard Collection, 

 Type no. 753.] 



Size smaller and form slightly more slender than in picta. In 

 other respects agreeing closely with that insect, except that the vin- 

 aceous-rufous lateral band on each of the tegmina is, both dorsal and 

 ventrad, much shorter, being abruptly terminated distinctly before 

 the median portion of the tegmen, while in picta it extends consid- 

 erably caudad of that point and narrows more gradually to its apex. 



Allotype: 9 ; Morretes, Parana, Brazil. [Paris Museum.] 



Agrees closely with the male sex, except in its somewhat larger 

 size. In form the sexes are similar, the present female being 

 slightly more slender than the males of picta at hand. 



General coloration shining black. Interocular space broadly 

 ochraceous-tawny, marbled with buff which shows a tinge of orange. 

 First three joints of antennae blackish brown, varying to ochraceous - 



68 From ^paxu-xatvia, in allusion to the reduced band of the tegmina, which 

 is much shorter thna in the very closely allied P. picta. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



tawny. Pronotum with lateral portions of cephalic margin rather 

 narrowly translucent warm buff, the internal margins of those areas 

 as broadly convex as the external margins. Tegmina dorsad and 

 ventrad with a broad proximal band of vinaceous-rufous, terminat- 

 ing abruptly before the median portion, this band of about equal 

 width throughout, covering the space from the humeral trunk to 

 near the costal margin proximad, the mediastine vein running 

 obliquely through its distal portion. i9 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Phoraspis picta (Drury) Plate XV, figure 4. 



1782. [Blalta] picta Drury, 111. Exot. Ent., Ill, p. 76, ind. (2), pi. 50, fig. 3. 

 [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 800 to 1000 meters, 2 c?. 

 These specimens are discussed, measured and compared under 

 the treatment of the preceding closely related insect. 



Epilampra verticalis Burmeister. 



1838. E[pilampra] verticalis Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, 

 p. 505. [Brazil.] 

 Passa-Quatro, Rio Las Pedras, Minas Geraes, Brazil, 1000 meters, 

 2 9. 



Hedaia yersiniana (Saussure) Plate XII, figures 3 and 4. 



1864. Epilampra yersiniana Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XVI, p. 

 324. [9, Brazil.] 

 Curityba, Parana, Brazil, Id", [Hebard Cln.]. 



69 Though weakly indicated, this is the only vein distinctly discernible on the 

 heavily and very thickly im^resso-punctate tegminal surface. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



This is the first specimen of this magnificent cockroach, largest 

 of the known American Epilamprinae, we have seen. 



Length of body 38, length of pronotum 8.3, width of pronotum 

 12.7, length of tegmen 51.2, width of tegmen 15 mm. 



The limb armament, tarsi, pulvilli and tarsal claws are similar 

 to those of the species of Epilampra here recorded, except that the 

 large spines are so large that their margins can be seen to be strongly, 

 though microscopically, serrulate, while the three tarsal joints after 

 the metatarsus all have minute spines bordering the large pulvilli 

 laterad, these briefly continued proximad in the proximal section 

 of the second joint, the ventral surface of which is not fully occupied 

 by the pulvillus. 



The form of the pronotum, strongly convex above the head and 

 flat in the produced meso-caudal portion, is very different from that 

 of any of the species assigned to Epilampra, while the apices of the 

 tegmina are on the median line and rather sharply rounded. 



BLATTINAE. 



Periplaneta americana (Linnaeus) 



1758. [Blatta] americana Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 424. [America.] 

 Bahia, Brazil, Id". 

 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 3 d 71 , 1 juv. 



PANCHLORINAE. 



Leucophaea maderae (Fabricius) 



1781. BUatta] maderae Fabricius, Spec. Ins., I, p. 341. [Madeira.] 

 Bahia, Brazil, 2 cf , 1 small juv. 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linnaeus) 



1767. [Blatta] surinamensis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, p. 687. [Sur- 

 inam.] 



Bahia, Brazil, 19,1 juv. 



Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1 9 . 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 800 to 900 meters, 1 9 . 



Panchlora cubensis Saussure. 



1862. P[anchlora] cubensis Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XIV, p. 

 230. [ 9 , Cuba.] 

 Bahia, Brazil, 5 cf , 3 9 • 



Panchlora prasina Burmeister. 



1838. P[anchlora] prasina Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I. p. 

 507. [Rio [de Janeiro], Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 500 to 900 meters, 1 9 . 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



We agree with Brunner in considering Saussure 's P. glauca, des- 

 cribed from Brazil, a synonym of this species. 



Of the green and plainly colored species of this genus, prasina 

 attains the largest size, apparently usually exceeding even the larg- 

 est individuals of P. exoleta Burmeister. The measurements for 

 the present specimen are: length of body 25, interocular width .7, 

 length of pronotum 7.7, width of pronotum 9.5, length of tegmen 

 27.2, width of tegmen 9.2 mm. 



Tribonium conspersum (Guerin and Percheron) Plate XII, figure 7. 



1835. B[latla] conspersa Guerin and Percheron, Gen. Ins., 2e Livr., No. 3, 

 pi. 2. [Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 19,7 juv. d\ 3 juv. 9 . 



This species has been synonymized under T. spectrum (Eschscholtz) . 

 We find that the tegmina and wings scarcely surpass the apex of 

 the abdomen in the female here recorded, as so splendidly figured 

 by Guerin and Percheron, and described by Serville. 60 In addition, 

 the reflexed proximal portion of the tegminal marginal field is dis- 

 tinctly lower than wide, with a weak emargination of the costal mar- 

 gin at its base. As a result, the name conspersum is restored. This 

 condition may be found to represent a geographic race of spectrum, 

 but at present insufficient material is at hand to determine whether 

 or not that is true. 



The measurements of the present female are; length of body 22.1, 

 length of pronotum 4.9, width of pronotum 9.1, length of tegmen 20, 

 width of tegmen 7.6 mm. 



Four instars of the handsome and very differently marked im- 

 mature condition (shown by the figure here given) are represented. 



Tribonidium signaticollis (Burmeister) Plate XII, figure 8. 



1838. Z[etobora] signaticollis Burmeister, Handb. Ent , II, Abth. II, Pt. I, 

 p. 510. [Brazil.] 



Curityba, Parana, Brazil, 1 cf, [Hebard Cln.]. 



At first glance, this specimen would appear to be solidly blackish 

 chestnut-brown in general coloration, except for the transparent 

 portion of the pronotum cephalad, which is tinged with warm buff. 

 On closer examination, however, the pronotum is seen to have 

 patches of very slightly paler color mesad and latero-caudad, show- 

 ing a rich deep mahogany red tinge, the marginal and anal fields 

 of the tegmina very faintly tinged with this color. 



60 Recorded by that author and later by Guerin, from Cuba, almost certainly 

 in error. The material recorded as this species by Burmeister, Saussure and 

 Brunner represents instead the closely related spectrum. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



The present specimen is apparently somewhat larger than the 

 individual originally described; length of body 17, length of prono- 

 tum 4.6, width of pronotum 6.7, length of tegmen 16, width of teg- 

 men 5.6 mm. 



The genus Tribonidium includes species with pronotum impresso- 

 punctate and cephalic margin convex, as in Zetobora. The prono- 

 tum is, however, not broadly though conspicuously reflexed toward 

 the cephalic margin, agreeing in this respect with Phortioeca instead. 

 The species are of small size compared with those of the allied genera 

 and in the present species the pronotal magnitude is comparatively 

 very small. 



Tribonidium amplum new species. Plate XII, figures 9 and 10. 



This insect is evidently closely related to T. transversum (Brun- 

 ner), 61 differing in the larger size, more ample pronotum and tegmina 

 and. wings, which in the male sex, show no reduction whatever. 



Compared with the male of T. signaticollis (Burmeister) recorded 

 above, the present males are seen to differ in the conspicuously 

 broader pronotum, with impressed punctae smaller and nearly ab- 

 sent in the cucullate portion, scattered and minute caudad of that 

 area, entire cucullate and discal portions of pronotum appreciably 

 flattened and more ample organs of flight. 



Type: cf; Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. [Paris Museum.] 



Size large, form moderately broad, for this genus of small and 

 moderately broad, though graceful, species. Head flat, interocular 

 space broad, slightly over half as broad as that between the antennal 

 sockets, interocellar area shallowly concave; ocelli large, their sur- 

 faces at a decidedly obtuse angle to the interocellar area. Maxil- 

 lary palpi very short, third joint subequal in length to the enlarged 

 fifth joint, fourth joint three-fifths as long, expanding strongly dis- 

 tad. Pronotum ample; cephalic margin broadly convex to the 

 rounded lateral angles, weakly reflexed in lateral portions; lateral 

 angles situated slightly caudad of median point, latero-caudal mar- 

 gins to shoulders of equal obliquity and convexity to lateral portions 

 of cephalic margin, caudal margin between humeral shoulders trans- 

 verse, with median angulation feebly suggested Pronotum cucul- 

 late above head, this and the area caudad to the shoulders raised 



61 It appears doubtful from the literature that Saussure's assignment of trans- 

 versum under his monasticum is correct. From his description and figure of the 

 latter species it would appear to differ from transversum in having a pale trans- 

 verse band on the vertex, the pronotum more ample (5.5 by 8.5 mm.), with caudal 

 margin more strongly transverse, but with tegminal and wing length apparently 

 proportionate. Unfortunately Saussure did not give separate measurements 

 for the sexes. A smaller Brazilian female recorded by that author, having the 

 head dark and immaculate is apparently referable to transversum. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



and flattened, with a few small, weak depressions and minute widely 

 scattered impressed punctae in caudal portion, which portion laterad 

 is bounded by low rounded ridges, strongly divergent from base of 

 hooded portion, then parellel to the shoulders; surface latero-caudad 

 thickly impresso-punctate, though not as heavily or thickly as in 

 signaticollis. Tegmina and wings fully developed, showing no re- 

 duction whatever and extending well beyond apex of abdomen. 

 Abdomen, including asymmetrical Panchloroid subgenital plate, 

 with straight, elongate, similar styles; limbs short; cephalic femora 

 supplied with a few minute chaetiform spines distad, terminating 

 in a single stout though greatly reduced spine; other femora unarmed, 

 lacking even genicular spines; large pul villi and large arolia between 

 the simple, symmetrical tarsal claws, all as characteristic of the 

 genus. 



Allotype: 9 ; State of Minas Geraes, Brazil. [Paris Museum.] 



Agrees with the type, except as follows. Size larger, form some- 

 what broader, tegmina and wings showing some reduction, reach- 

 ing to base of supra-anal plate. Head broader and more flattened, 

 interocular space three-fifths that between antennal sockets, ocelli 

 smaller. Pronotum broader, the lateral angles slightly more caudad 

 in position, the cucullate and other raised portions minutely and 

 rather thickly impresso-punctate, though by no means as thickly 

 as in the male of signaticollis before us. Subgenital plate large, 

 simple, free margin broadly concave opposite cerci. 



General coloration (of males) deep chestnut-brown; the trans- 

 lucent latero-caudal portions of the pronotum and tegmina, when 

 held to the light, chestnut brown. Pronotum with cephalic third 

 dully transparent warm buff, the darker color invading this area in 

 cucullate portion to near the cephalic margin, the caudal borders 

 on each side straight, transverse, considerably cephalad of the lat- 

 eral angles. Ventral surface cinnamon-buff, the abdominal seg- 

 ments with lateral areas and femora distad paler, buckthorn brown. 

 Antennae blackish brown, becoming chestnut brown proximad. 



The female is similar but darker, more solidly blackish brown, 

 with cephalic third of pronotum dully transparent antimony yellow. 



Length of body d" 18.3 62 -18.8, 9 20.7; length of pronotum cf 

 4.9-5, 9 5.3; width of pronotum d" 7.-7.8, 9 8.2; length of tegmen 

 <? 17.3-17.7, 9 15.2; width of tegmen & 6-6.2, 9 6.1 mm. 



In addition to the described pair, a paratypic male and five im- 

 mature examples, bearing the same data, are at hand. 



The immature condition is strongly patelliform, the dorsal sur- 

 face minutely and thickly tuberculate, these interspersed with more 

 prominent tubercles. 



General coloration verona brown, beautifully and symmetrically 

 m arked with cinnamon-buff. Transparent portion of pronotum ceph- 

 alad ochraceous-buff, other segments streaked laterad and punct- 



62 The measurements of the type are given first. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



ate at caudal margins with cinnamon-buff, a medi-olongitudinal band 

 of this color on mesonotum and metanotum, the abdomen with 

 broadly projecting portions of tergites paler, tessellate, and with 

 a concentric paler tessellate area, this inclosing the median portion 

 of the median segment and first two tergites, which area is of 

 the darker ground color, the tergites each with a fleck cinnamon- 

 buff between the lateral and median areas. 



Without much larger series than have ever been assembled, the 

 separation of many of the species of such genera as the present, 

 Phoraspis, Paratropes and Tribonium, is a most difficult problem. 

 The differences shown by the forms recognized by us as Tribonidium 

 monasticum, transversum and amplwn, may indicate full specific 

 distinction, geographic racial differentiation or, indeed, mere in- 

 dividual variation in a single exceptionally plastic species. Addi- 

 tional material with full data would throw much light on this prob- 

 lem, if not definitely solving it. Color differences such as are 

 shown and different degrees of structural and tegminal and wing 

 modification are sometimes unimportant, sometimes of great diag- 

 nostic value. It is clear that in genera such as the present, where 

 limb armament is so greatly reduced and the genitalic features may 

 show generic but not specific differences, we are forced to weigh 

 the recognizable differences and to form conclusions as to their 

 value in each individual case, without the degree of assurance poss- 

 ible when familiar with other groups and working with even unique 

 individuals of many of the species. 



BLABERINAE. 



Petasodes mouffeti (Kirby) Plate XIII, figure 4. 



1817. B[latta\ mouffeti Kirby in Spence, Introd. Ent., II, p. 329. [Brazil* 



1818. B[latta] mouffeti Kirby, Trans. Linn. Soc, XII, p. 448. [Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 19,2 juv. 9 . 



Kirby first proposed this name for a species he recognized as 

 having large pulvilli and no arolia between the tarsal claws, referring 

 to Mouffet's figure published in 1634. That figure is extremely un- 

 satisfactory, though we do not agree with Burmeister in considering 

 it to resemble more closely Leucophaea maderae (Fabricius) than 

 the species now assigned to the genus Petasodes. In 1818, Kirby 

 has given a description of the insect, decidedly more comprehensive 

 than many of that time, and we follow Burmeister, but not sub- 

 sequent authors, in recognizing mouffeti as a distinct species. 



Compared with females of the other species of the genus before 

 us, the present female is seen to be decidedly narrower,with prono- 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



tal margin, both cephalad and caudad, pale, the tegmina elongate and 

 the wings fully developed. 



Length of body 36, length of pronotum 11, width of pronotum 

 19.8, length of tegmen 35, width of tegmen 15.8 mm. 



The immature condition of this species is extraordinarily hand- 

 some. Though moderately supplied with microscopic spines on 

 the dorsal surface (particularly on the thoracic segments, very spar- 

 ingly on the median segment and proximal abdominal tergites) 

 those before us have few particles of foreign matter adhering and 

 appear smooth and shining to the naked eye. The general coloration 

 is warm buff, the lamellate margins weakly transparent and light 

 buff, the insect beautifully marked with rich blackish brown, shad- 

 ing to prouts brown as shown by the figure. Adults and immatures 

 may be readily separated from those of Monastria biguttata (Thun- 

 berg) by the femoral spination. In the present species the cephalic 

 femora have on their ventro-cephalic margin a minute but heavy 

 distal spine, preceded by a few irregularly placed chaetiform spinu- 

 lae; the median and caudal femora bear only a minute but heavy 

 genicular spine. 



Monastria biguttata (Thunberg) 



1826. Blalta biguttata Thunberg, Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., X, p. 

 276, pi. 14. [ 9 , Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, I cf , 4 juv. 



Adults and immatures may be quickly separated from those of 

 Petasodes mouffeti (Kirby) by the femora, which entirely lack heavy 

 spines, the cephalic femora being supplied distad on the ventro- 

 cephalic margin with minute chaetiform spines and dorsad along the 

 caudal portion of the distal margin with a few similar spinulae. 



All of the juveniles are heavily coated with foreign particles, 

 which gives them a dingy unattractive appearance. These particles 

 are seen under the miscroscope to be adhering to a multitude of 

 closely placed, minute and usually curved spines, which cover the 

 dorsal surface and marginal portions of the ventral surface. A 

 color pattern, somewhat resembling that of juveniles of P. mouffeti, 

 is barely discernible on the dorsal surface of the abdomen through 

 its dingy coating. 



CORYDIINAE. 

 CEUTHOBIELLA new genus. 

 1920. Melestora Hebard (not of Stal), Mem .Am. Ent. Soc, No. 4, p. 121. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



To this genus belong the species described as Melestora minu- 

 tissima byRehn, fromlgarape-Assu, Para, Brazil, and as Melestora 

 micra by Hebard from Paraiso, Canal Zone, Panama. 



Genotype. — Ceuthobiella minutissima (Rehn). 



The genus is closely related to Ceuihobia, described on page 292, 

 males agreeing in the comparatively slender form, interocular space 

 not wrinkled, pronotum broadest meso-caudad with latero-caudal 

 oblique sulci moderately well defined but no trace of medio-longitu- 

 dinal sulcation, sinistral tegmen without a diagonal channel, wings 

 with radiate field folding fan-wise and dorsal surface of abdomen 

 with median segment specialized. 



It differs in the even smaller size, 63 darker general coloration, 

 minute and inconspicuous ocelli, tegmina with discoidal sectors al- 

 most longitudinal, 64 much narrower wings which are only slightly 

 over half as broad as long, scarcely appreciable costal veins which 

 are not clubbed distad, subobsolete intercalated triangle, sub- 

 genital plate more asymmetrical and showing a different type of 

 specialization and complete absence of genicular or other spines 

 on the femora. 65 



It would appear probable that Nothoblatta Bolivar (Mitth. Schweiz. 

 Ent. Ges., XI, p. 139, (1905).), including the single species, was- 

 manni Bolivar, belongs to the present group of genera and is nearest 

 to Ceuthobiella. From the literature, that genus apparently differs 

 in cephalic, palpal, pronotal, genitalic and tibial features. Un- 

 fortunately the description is vague concerning some of the most 

 important characters. 



Oulopteryx meliponarum new species. Plate XV, figures 7, 8, 9 and 10. 



This striking species is first Blattid known to inhabit the nests 

 of bees. The series from which it is described was taken from the 

 nest of the diminutive, black, stingless bee, Melipona nigra Lepele- 

 tier. 



Compared with 0. dascilloides, described on page 215, the pres- 

 ent insect is seen to differ in the much paler brown coloration, 

 somewhat less coriaceous and much more hairy pronotum and teg- 



63 The two described species are the smallest of the fully winged American 

 Blattidae known. Length of body, in normal position, approximately 4.5 mm. 



64 Only the last of these toward the sutural margin is seen to be weakly oblique 

 to that margin. 



65 The ventro-cephalic margins of the cephalic femora are supplied in distal 

 portion with a row of hairs, approaching the condition we term piliform spines, 

 (from type of A .minutissima) . 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



mina, more ample and distinctly more flattened pronotum, teg- 

 mina with costal margin less decidedly oblique in distal portion, 

 features of the genitalia and somewhat less decidedly atrophied 

 armament of the cephalic femora. 



The annulate antennae afford a striking feature of coloration. 



Type: o* ; Fazenda do Sobrado, near Passo-Quatro, Minas Geraes, 

 Brazil. June. [Paris Museum.] 



In addition to the characters given in the generic description on 

 page 214, we record the following. Eyes extending briefly ventrad 

 of antennal sockets, convergent lateral margins of cheeks to clypeal 

 suture brief. Interocular space slightly over half width between 

 antennal sockets. Maxillary palpi with fifth joint large, slightly 

 shorter than third, fourth joint two-thirds as long as third joint. 

 Pronotum with bosses of disk smooth, showing a somewhat lyrate 

 pattern; other portions, including weak bosses at humeral shoulders, 

 heavily impresso-punctate. Tegmina moderately coriaceous, ex- 

 tending distinctly beyond cereal apices, margins converging evenly 

 distad. Wings with rolls of folded appendicular fields lying ob- 

 liquely. Median segment as described for dascilloides. Supra- 

 anal plate with length equal to about one-fourth proximal width, 

 suddenly and strongly concave in meso-distal portion, lateral mar- 

 gins convergent and forming rather broadly convex projections on 

 eacji side of this area, moderately supplied with long hairs in these 

 portions, median section of margin nearly transverse, showing a 

 very feeble convexity, without hairs. The ventral surface of this 

 plate is symmetrically specialized, mesad on each side at the base 

 of the projecting portions it is produced in a transverse and chiti- 

 nous triangular projection, with apex acute and curved outward 

 toward each side, these fang-like processes lie on the deeply concave 

 faces of two large subchitinous, symmetrical plates, which, spring- 

 ing from near the cereal bases, are transverse and vertical, reaching 

 to the anal opening. Subgenital plate small and nearly symmetri- 

 cal, lateral margins equally oblique, the sinistral very feebly convex, 

 the dextral as feebly concave, rounding into the transverse distal 

 margin at the style sockets. Styles similar, simple, straight, cylin- 

 drical, not tapering except at the rounded apex, each about six 

 times as long as its width, three-quarters as long as the distance 

 between the style bases. Cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic 

 margin supplied distad with minute, piliform, well separated spines, 

 terminated by a single elongate, heavy distal spine. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Paris Museum.] 



Agrees closely with the male sex, differing in the following fea- 

 tures. Interocular space wider, nearly as wide as that between the 

 antennal sockets. Tegmina and wings showing some slight reduc- 

 tion, extending to cereal apices. Dorsal surface of abdomen un- 

 specialized. Supra-anal plate slightly over two-fifths as long as 

 proximal width lateral margins nearly straight, oblique to the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



rather broadly truncate apical portion, the surface of which is 

 weakly concave. Subgenital plate broad, the meso-distal portion 

 (approximately one-sixth of the entire surface) moderately pro- 

 duced, occupied by two rounded-triangular plates, forming nearly 

 vertical valves and separated proximad from the basal portion of 

 the plate by a strongly concave margin. 



Coloration of sexes similar. Head bright ochraceous-tawny, be- 

 coming ochraceous-orange on occiput, which portion is marked 

 with suffused vertical stripes of rich chestnut brown. Proximal 

 antennal joints, mouthparts and all but distal joint of maxillary 

 palpi ochraceous-buff, last joint of maxillary palpi cinnamon-brown. 

 Antennae in remaining portions mummy brown, near distal ex- 

 tremity with an annulus of light buff (occupying usually three, 

 rarely as many as five, joints). Pronotum shining russet. Teg- 

 mina translucent, shining mars brown, paling slightly laterad and 

 distad to russet; portion of dextral tegmen, concealed when at rest, 

 transparent, weakly tinged with tawny. Wings delicate, trans- 

 parent, very faintly tinged with ochraceous-buff, this more decided 

 in area of costal veins and in radiate field toward its juncture with 

 the appendicular field. Dorsal surface of mesonotum, metanotum 

 and abdomen light ochraceous-buff, the latter in all but proximal 

 portion with a broad marginal suffusion of prouts brown, which 

 broadens distad to include the supra-anal plate and preceding ter- 

 gites. Cerci cinnamon brown. Ventral surface ochraceous-tawny, 

 often pale and tinged with orange, suffused laterad with prouts 

 brown, this not as broad as dorsad. Limbs ochraceous-buff tinged 

 with tawny. 



In the immature condition the shining dorsal surface is tawny or 

 russet, deepening to mars brown laterad. The striking antennal 

 and other markings are as in the adults. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 



c? body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Type 10 2.8 3.6 10.6 3.5 



Paratypes (5) 9.8-10.8 2.8-2.8 3.4-3.6 10.8-11.1 3.4-3.8 



9 

 Allotype 9.2 3 3.8 9.2 3 



Paratypes (3) 9.2-9.4 2.9-3 3.7-3.8 8.6-8.8 3-3 



In addition to the type and allotype, a series of five males, three 

 females, three immature males, five immature females and three 

 very small immature specimens are before us, bearing the same 

 data. Of these the adults are designed paratypes. Five different 

 instars of immaturity are apparently represented. 



In the paratypes with wings spread, the following measurements 

 are shown : length of wing d" 11.7, 9 9; width of wing cf 8.2, 9 6.8; 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



length of appendicular field o" 3.8, 9 3.05; width of appendicular 

 field & 4.7, 9 3.4 mm. 



MELESTORA Stal. 



1858. Melestora Stal, Kongl. Svenska Freg. Eugenie's Resa, Zool., I, p. 311. 



We regret to state that, from the material now available, we are 

 convinced that our recent characterization of the genus 66 is incor- 

 rect, applying instead to the genus Ceuthobia, described on page 292. 



The genus Melestora as here defined, includes the South American 

 species adspersipennis Stal, fuscella Stal and argentina (Rehn). 67 



Genotype. — Melestora adspersipennis Stal. 68 



This genus shows, in the male sex, nearest relationship to Comp- 

 sodes, agreeing in the elliptical pronotum with a medio-longitudinal 

 sulcus 69 and somewhat impressed disk, femora not strikingly en- 

 larged, sinistral as well as dextral tegmen with a conspicuous diag- 

 onal channel 70 and discoidal sectors oblique, wings with anterior 

 field over twice the area of the radiate field, with ulnar vein develop- 

 ing complete arcuate branches and radiate field proximal in position 

 and not folding, dorsal surface of abdomen with third tergite spec- 

 ialized mesad 71 and pulvilli absent. 



We find that Melestora as properly restricted, 72 differs from Comp- 

 sodes in the male sex in having the interocular area decidedly 

 wrinkled, the median and caudal femora supplied on their ventro- 

 cephalic margins with a single distal spine, as well as having the 

 genicular spine, which is present in both genera. 



These genera represent a distinctive group, particularly striking 

 in having the anterior field of the wings very large, in area approxi- 



66 Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 4, p. 121, (1920). 



67 Incorrectly referred by us to the genus Compsodes, at the time that genus 

 was described. Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 2, p. 209, (1917). 



68 Selected by Kirby, Syn. Cat. Orth., I, p. 167, (1904). 



69 In the aberrant Compsodes cucullatus (Saussure and Zehntner), the pronotum 

 is produced over the head, the cephalic margin showing greater angulation, while 

 the medio-longitudinal sulcus is subobsolete. 



70 This channel is not shown by Stal's figure. That author's description of 

 the interocular area and pronotum leads us to the present conclusion and the 

 belief that the diagonal channel was by accident omitted from the figure. 



71 This was not noted by us in our description of Compsodes schwarzi (Caudell) , 

 Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 2. p. 211, (1917). In that species the third tergite is 

 weakly impressed meso-proximad, with a minute node mesad, surrounded by very 

 minutely microscopic hairs, the caudal margin of the preceding tergite weakly 

 raised, thus showing a broad convexity above this. 



72 Judging from the data given by Stal, material of argentina at hand and a 

 series representing all of the known species of Compsodes. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



mating that of the tegmen, and radiate field very small and not 

 folding. 



Though very close, we believe that Melestora and Compsodes 

 represent distinct generic units, occupying the same position in 

 the biota of the regions where they are found, the former in the 

 southern portion of tropical South America, the latter in tropical 

 North America. 



Euthyrrhapha pacitica (Coquebert) 



1804. Blatta pacifica Coquebert, Illustr. iconogr. Insect., Ill, p. 91, pi. XXI, 

 fig. I. [Islands of the Pacific Ocean.] 



Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1 cf • 



This species was apparently introduced into Brazil, probably 

 from Oceania, a very long time ago; it was recorded from Brazil 

 at an early date and definitely from Rio de Janeiro by Gerstaecker 

 jn Van der Decken. 73 



Hypercompsa cynipsoides Walker. 



1868. Hypercompsa cynipsoides Walker, Cat. Blatt, Br. Mus., p. 62. [<f; 

 Tijuca, [Rio de Janeiro], Brazil.] 



Curityba, Parana, Brazil, 2 cf. 



The present material is assignable without question to Walker's 

 cynipsoides, which name has been placed in synonymy under H . 

 fieberi (Brunner) by Kirby. We do not believe Kirby's action to 

 be correct, but examination of the type of fieberi alone can verify 

 this. It would seem probable that Brunner would have described 

 the large and strikingly pale spot of warm buff, on each side of 

 the abdomen latero-proximad, had his material shown this feature. 

 This marking is, as described by Walker, conspicuous, occupying the 

 lateral portions of the first and second tergites and corresponding 

 area ventrad, and shows through the fenestrate tegmina when these 

 are at rest. 



Holocompsa nitidula (Fabricius) 



1781. B[latta] nitidula Fabricius, Spec. Ins., I, p. 345. [[ 9 ], Surinam.] 

 Bahia, Brazil, 1 9 . 



OXYHALOINAE. 



Chorisoneura perlucida (Walker) 



1868. Blatta perlucida Walker, Cat. Blatt. Br. Mus., p. 99. [ 9 J Tijuca, 

 [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil].] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, May, 2d*. 

 The sinistral style in males of this species has its base produced 

 dextrad and somewhat swollen, bearing a small tuft of agglutinated, 

 73 Roisen in Ost-Afrika, III, Abth., II, p. 9, (1873). 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



spiniform hairs. The dextral style bears mesad on its external face 

 a stout chitinous spine, directed proximo-dextrad and curved proxi- 

 mad. The intervening triangular production between the bases 

 of the styles has a minute but stout spine at its apex, another much 

 smaller spine on the dextral margin, the sinistral margin being 

 broadly subchitinous. 



The general structure and very faintly tessellate tegmina indicate 

 the close affinity of this species to those of the genus recorded below. 



Chorisoneura gracilis (Saussure) 



1862. Bl[atla] gracilis Saussure, Rev. et Mag, de Zool., (2), XIV, p. 167. 

 [[91, Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 3 o", 1 9 . 



The males have the styles longer than in C. perlucida (Walk- 

 er), the dextro-proximal specialization of the sinistral style and 

 intervening triangular production between the bases of the styles 

 in every way similar, the dextral style with a much smaller, minute, 

 spine mesad on its dorsal margin, directed proximad. 



Saussure 's original description would appear to have been taken 

 from a smaller individual, the material before us agreeing better 

 with Brunner's characterization of his Brazilian flavoantennata and 

 with Saussure and Zehntner's discussion of material from Rio 

 Grande do Sul, Brazil, at the time those authors placed flavoanten- 

 nata in the present synonymy. 



The tegminal tessellation in these specimens agrees closely with 

 that of C. perlucida (Walker). It is, however, a trifle more distinct, 

 while in two individuals the veins proximad are weakly whitish. 



Chorisoneura nigrifrons (.Serville) 



1839. Blatla nigrifrons Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 109. [d\ 9; 

 Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1 cf , [Hebard Chi.]. 



Closely agreeing with the two previous species in size, form and 

 general coloration, the striking cephalic marking would appear 

 to be a feature by which this species may be readily recognized. 

 The genitalia of the present specimen are in a poor state of preser- 

 vation. 



PERISPHAERINAE. 



BrachycoLi tuberculata (Dalman) 



1823. Blalta tuberculata Dalman, Analecta Ent., p. 87. [Brazil.] 

 Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 3 9,2 small juv. 

 The very early stage, represented by the immature individuals 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



before us (length 7 mm.), is generally buffy, the antennae dark 

 with annuli as in the adult, the pronotum with a homologous dark 

 paired patch which, however, sends a ray of the same color latero- 

 caudad instead of cephalad on each side, the mesonotum and meta- 

 notum dark in broad meso-proximal portion. In this stage arolia 

 are absent. 



HORMETICA Burmeister. 



1838. Hormelica Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 511. 

 1865. Dasyposoma Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 387. 



After considerable study of the problem, we are now convinced 



that Dasyposoma is a synonym of Hormetica ; the genotype and other 



species referred to, representing immature individuals of Hormetica 



in the later instars, as discussed below. 



Hormetica ventralis Burmeister. 



1838. H[ormelica] ventralis Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 



512. [Rio de Janeiro, [Brazil].] 

 1865. D[asyposoma] nigra Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 388, p.. XIII 

 figs. 57 A to C. [d 1 , 9 ; Brazil.] 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1 large juv. cf . 



This specimen agrees closely with an immature female in the 

 same instar from Puerto Bertoni, Paraguay, recorded by Rehn 

 as Dasyposoma nigra and apparently referable to Hormetica atlas 

 Rehn, which species is very closely allied to the present. 



Recent studies of a large series of both sexes, including adults and 

 immatures, of Hormetica apolinari Hebard, from Colombia, have 

 shown that in that species the early stages lacked pulvilli, the adults 

 having well-developed pulvilli. Futhermore it was found that 

 Saussure 's Dasyposoma marmorata was based on the immature 

 condition of a species of Hormetica closely related to apolinari. 



The present material is, we believe, referable to Hormetica ventralis, 

 and it is highly probable that Brunner 's Dasyposoma nigra is 

 based on the immature condition of this species; certain it is that 

 the name is referable to this or one of the very closely related species 

 of Hormetica. 14 The two immatures of Brazilian species at hand 

 also lack arolia though the surface of the tarsal joint between the 

 tarsal claws is swollen in this instar, apparently the last preceding 

 maturity. 



74 Of these we have before us adults, representing both sexes, referred to laevi- 

 gata Burmeister, atlas Rehn and scrobiculata Burmeister, which have been fully 

 discussed by Rehn, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLIII, p, 341, (1917). 




254 * PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



As nigra has been designated gentoype of Dasyposoma, that genus 

 inconsequence falls in synonymy under Hormetica. 



The coloration of the immature here recorded is as follows. 

 Dorsal surface blackish brown, shining and polished except caudad, 

 where minute subdenticulations roughen the surface; cingulate mar- 

 gins of pronotum, mesonotum and metanotum mars brown. Head 

 mars brown paling to russet on occiput and mouthparts, eyes 

 ochraceous-tawny, ocellar areas more buffy. Antennae with two 

 proximal joints ochraceous-tawny, remainder dark mummy brown, 

 except for a meso-distal annulus of light ochraceous-buff, occupy- 

 ing five joints. Limbs chestnut brown paling to ochraceous-buff 

 on trochanters, bases of tibiae and ventral surfaces of tarsi. Ven- 

 tral surface of abdomen shining and polished blackish brown, pal- 

 ing to ochraceous-tawny meso-proximad. 



Length of body 29.4, greatest width of body (meso-caudad) 17, 

 width of interocular space 3.9, length of caudal tibia 8.7 mm. 



Parahormetica tumulosa Brunner. 



1865. P[arahormelica) tumulosa Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 385, pi. 

 XII, figs. A to c'. [cf, $; Brazil.] 



Minas Geraes, Brazil, 100 meters, 1 cf , 1 juv. 



Passa-Quatro, Rio las Pedras, Brazil, 1000 meters, 1 d 1 , 19,2 juv. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Exposed length Proximal 



body pronotum pronotum of tegmen width of 



cf tegmen 



Minas Geraes, Brazil 28 10.7 14 6.9 6.7 



Passa-Quatro, Minas 30.3 11.6 14.4 7.7 6.3 

 Geraes, Brazil 

 9 



Passa-Quatro, Minas 28 9 12.7 5 8 5.6 



Villa Luteiia, Misiones, 27.2 8.2 12.8 5.7 5 



Argentina 



The immatures are very dark brown with limbs slightly paler 

 and more reddish. Those recorded on page 299 from Argentina are 

 solidly colored above, those from Minas Geraes having the pronotum 

 ochraceous-buff in broad meso-caudal portion and mesonotum, 

 metanotum and proximal abdominal tergites dresden brown in 

 the same areas. 



Parahormetica bilobata Saussure. 



1864. Parahormetica bilobata Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XIV, p. 

 345. [ 9 ; Province of Minas Geraes, Brazil.] 



Curityba, Parana, Brazil, 1 o". 



Brazil, 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.J. 



The size of the specimens here recorded is much greater than that 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



given by Saussure. With a species subject to as great size variation 

 as is shown by the two specimens, here associated without hesitation, 

 as representing the same species, we feel that we are justified in re- 

 ferring this material to Saussure 's bilobata. Saussure has des- 

 cribed two decided color variations for that species. The two 

 specimens before us agree closely in coloration. 



Length of body cf 41.8, 9 36.7; length of pronotum & 16.7, 9 

 11.7; width of pronotum cf 19.5, 9 16; length of exposed portion 

 of tegmen & 11.7, 9 8; width of tegmen cf 9.8, 9 7.7; width of 

 interval between tegmina c? 7.5, 9 5.5 mm. 



Section III. Northern Argentina. 



The collection from this region, belonging to the Paris Museum, 

 is large and to it have been added a considerable series from the 

 the Hebard Collection, originally the property of Professor Law- 

 rence Bruner. A total of 370 specimens has been recorded, in- 

 cluding 22 genera and 37 species, of which 2 genera and 16 species 

 are new. 



As a result we have been able to study a much larger series of 

 Argentinian Blattidae than has ever previously been assembled. 

 The species recorded from the subtropical section of northern Ar- 

 gentina represent we believe, a fairly large proportion of the cock- 

 roaches which there occur. 



Though the Blattidae of Argentina have been by no means ne- 

 glected in past literature, the fact that over forty-five percent of 

 the species here treated represent new forms, shows that this 

 family has previously received scant attention by collectors. The 

 extremely rich fauna of southern Brazil is continued into tropical 

 northern Argentina, and it is probable that but a small proportion 

 of the Blattidae of that region are as yet known. 



Of particular interest are the brachypterous species of the genera 

 Cariblatta and Neoblattella, the large number of species of the genus 

 Ischnoptera ( of which the species caracana shows extraordinary 

 male dimorphism), the distinctive Pseudischnoptera rhabdota, the 

 species of Epilampra in which the sexes show decided to very great 

 dissimilarity and the five small species of the Corydiinae. 



Eudromiella aglaia new species. Plate IX, figures 4 and 5. 



Males of the present species agree closely with males of the geno- 

 type,^, bicolorata Hebard, described from Panama, differing in the 

 more contrasting coloration, the pronotum with paired longitudinal 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



lines broader and with all but a caudal patch of the intervening 

 area very dark, as well as in characters of the genitalia, particularly 

 the distinctive specialization of the sixth tergite. 



Type: o"; Carcarafia, Santa Fe, Argentina. [Hebard Collection, 

 Type no. 680.] 



Size small, form graceful, structure delicate as characteristic of 

 the genus. Interocular space about three-quarters as wide as that 

 between antennal sockets. Ocellar spots distinct, ocellar areas 

 rounding into interocellar area. Maxillary palpi moderately elong- 

 ate, third and fifth joints of equal length, fourth joint slightly 

 shorter. Lateral margins of face rather strongly convergent to 

 clypeal suture. Pronotum broadly rounded, symmetrically trap- 

 ezoidal, the greatest width near the caudal margin, that margin 

 transverse, very broadly convex; surface of pronotum weakly con- 

 vex. Tegmina and wings extending well beyond cereal apices. 

 Tegmina with numerous, decidedly oblique, discoidal sectors. 

 Wings with (7) heavily clubbed costal veins, with (6) complete 

 branches of the ulnar vein, intercalated triangle small but distinct. 

 Sixth tergite with a large projection meso-caudad, formed by two 

 rounded ridges which unite cephalad, thus forming a V-shaped prom- 

 inence,' surface strongly concave cephalad and laterad of this 

 prominence, supplied cephalad with numerous agglutinated hairs, 

 directed caudad and reaching as far as the blunt apex of the prom- 

 inence. Supra-anal plate broadly transverse. Paired plate be- 

 neath supra-anal plate large and unspecialized. Other concealed 

 genitalic processes complex. Subgenital plate asymmetrical; sinis- 

 trad more produced than dextrad, with dextral portion curled up- 

 ward and inward ; styles inset, the dextral decidedly the more so. 

 Sinistral style a flattened lobe, about twice as long as broad, ex- 

 panding slightly to the truncate apex, the angles of which are broadly 

 rounded. Dextral style somewhat similar but more elongate and 

 slender and curled strongly dextrad toward apex, the base of which 

 portion touches that of the sinistral style. Between the rather 

 irregularly formed styles the median portion of the plate is triangu- 

 larly produced, nearly filling the interspace between them. Limbs, 

 armament, pulvilli and arolia as characteristic of genus. 75 



Head with occiput ochraceous-buff tinged with tawny, deepening 

 ventrad, with inter-ocular-ocellar area auburn and remaining por- 

 tions of face blackish chestnut, ocellar spots light buff, antennae 

 snuff brown, the first joint darker proximad. Pronotum with two 

 broad longitudinal bars of deep chestnut brown, which broaden and 

 diverge slightly caudad throughout their length, intervening area 

 mars brown, except in a transverse, rectangulate area caudad which 

 is ochraceous-buff; lateral portions of pronotum transparent, feebly 

 tinged with buff. Tegmina with marginal field and marginal por- 



75 Described, Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 4, p. 35, (1920). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



tion of scapular field transparent, feebly tinged with buff, thenee 

 becoming suddenly rich chestnut brown, which gradually becomes 

 more dilute distad and toward the costal margin and is there weakly 

 tawny. Wings almost clear hyaline, showing a very faint tawny 

 tinge toward the free margins of the anterior field and with enlarged 

 portions of costal veins white. Abdomen with dorsal surface to 

 sixth tergite blackish brown, narrowly margined laterad with och- 

 raceous-buff, except that the sixth has a suffusion of blackish brown 

 on each side. Cerci chestnut brown, shading to prouts brown dis- 

 tad and narrowly buffy proximad toward the internal margin. Ven- 

 tral surface of thoracic segments and bases of trochanters chestnut 

 brown, limbs light ochraceous-buff. Ventral surface of abdomen 

 with lateral margins ochraceous-buff, proximad and laterad black- 

 ish brown, this leaving the median portion of the mesal section and 

 all of the distal portion ochraceous-buff. 



Length of body 9.7-9.3, 76 length of pronotum 2.7-2.7, width of 

 pronotum 3.7-3.6, length of tegmen 10.3-9.9, width of tegmen 3-3 

 mm. 



In addition to the type, a paratypic male, bearing the same data, 

 is in the Hebard Collection. 



Dasyblatta chopardi 77 new species. Plate IX, figures 6, 7 and 8. 



This interesting species is distinguished from the genotype, D. 

 thaumasia, described on page 225, both known only from the male 

 sex, by its smaller size, pale coloration, much wider interocular 

 space and striking genitalia. 



The genitalic specialization in these species is seen to represent 

 a distinctive type, the two agreeing in general character of develop- 

 ment. 



Type: cf; Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco, Argentina. 

 [Paris Museum.] 



In addition to the characters given in the generic description on 

 page 224, the following are considered of specific value. Inter- 

 ocular space slightly over one-half occipital ocular depth, three- 

 fifths that between antennal sockets; impressed punctae, the sockets 

 of hairs, particularly conspicuous in the inter-ocular-ocellar area. 

 Third joint of maxillary palpi four-fifths as long as the large fifth 

 joint, slightly longer than the fourth joint. Hirsute tegmina sub- 

 coriaceous in appearance, due to the fact that the hairs are invisible 

 except under the microscope; area of dextral tegmen, concealed 

 when at rest, hairless; discoidal sectors (9-10) best termed longi- 

 tudinal, though toward the sutural margin the last of those in the 

 sinistral tegmen is weakly oblique to that margin, while toward the 

 sutural margin several in the dextral tegmen are slightly irregular 



76 The measurements of the type are given first. 



77 In honor of our friend, Dr. Lucien Chopard. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



and moderately oblique. Abdominal tergites apparently much as 

 described for thaumasia on page 225. 78 Subgenital plate curled 

 upward and inward sinistro-proximad beside the base of the supra- 

 anal plate and there with a small rounded node, produced caudad 

 beside the lateral margin of the supra-anal plate, its apex armed 

 with two straight chaetiform spines directed caudad. Supra-anal 

 plate three-fifths as long as its proximal width, weakly chitinous in 

 distal portion, this area defined from the proximal area by a delicate 

 but distinct, straight, transverse sulcus, lateral margins feebly con- 

 cave, not convergent to bases of cerci, straight and strongly oblique 

 to within these, the remaining portion roundly produced, with median 

 emargination feebly suggested. Subgenital plate with sinistro-proxi- 

 mal portion specialized as described above, beyond this with surface 

 moderately convex so that the very broadly and irregularly convex 

 margin nearly touches the cercus, bearing on its internal surface at 

 the margin beneath the cercus a stout straight spine, directed dorso- 

 mesad, this section of the margin terminating at the small simple sin- 

 istral style, situated just within the sinistral cercus; this style cylin- 

 drical, about twice as long as broad, directed dorso-mesad; beyond 

 this point the margin is very deeply and roundly concave to the dex- 

 tral style, similar but smaller and more tapering, situated slightly sin- 

 istrad of the median point and directed dextro-caudad, the internal 

 surface of the plate at the base of this style bearing two stout spines 

 of equal length curved caudad; remaining large dextral section of 

 the plate curled inward beneath dextral cercus and supra-anal plate 

 to slightly beyond this point, the dorsal outline of the projection 

 triangular, with apex bluntly rounded. Concealed genitalia com- 

 plex, the paired plate beneath the supra-anal plate apparently 

 developed into projections armed with minute teeth. 79 



General coloration of entire insect ochraceous-buff. Vertex to 

 between ocelli suffused with dresden brown. Eyes blackish brown. 

 Ocelli light buff. Disk of pronotum with a tawny orange tinge. 

 Tegmina showing an exceedingly faint and even tinge of buckthorn 

 brown. 



Length of body 9.4, length of pronotum 2.4, width of pronotum 

 3.2, length of tegmen 9.8, width of tegmen 2.9, length of caudal tibia 

 3.8, length of caudal metatarsus 1.6 mm. 



Though even less striking in general appearance than thaumasia, 

 this unique specimen also represents actually one of the most re- 

 markably specialized forms of the Blattidae known to us. 



Cariblatta mesembrina 80 new specie?. Plate IX, figure 16. 



This species shows the greatest tegminal reduction known in the 

 genus. In C. lutea minima Hebard, from the United States, the 



78 The sinistral portion of the eighth tergite is damaged in this specimen. 



79 Dissection of this unique individual is inadvisable. 



80 From [xeaT]^^piva= Southern. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



tegmina are reduced sufficiently to leave exposed the distal portion 

 of the abdomen, but in that race these organs narrow to the rather 

 sharply rounded apices. In mesembrina the tegmina are truncate 

 distad, the costal margin rounding very broadly into the transverse 

 distal margin, so that these organs leave almost the entire dorsal 

 surface of the abdomen exposed. 



Though apparently nearest lutea minima, the present species is 

 seen to approach that race only in features governed by reduction 

 in the organs of flight and to be derived from a different phylum, 

 the development of the pronotal picturing and cephalic marking 

 being distinctive. 



From the pronotal picturing, we believe it best to place the species 

 in linear arrangement after C. fossicauda Hebard, described from 

 Trinidad. 



The adult male probably shows distinctive genitalic features, 

 as is indicated by the immature examples of that sex at hand. 



Type: 9 ; Carcararia, Santa Fe, Argentina. [Hebard Collection, 

 Type No. 681.] 



Size small, form moderately robust for the genus of very small and 

 moderately slender species . Head with interocular space very slight- 

 ly wider than that between antennal sockets. 81 Ocellar spots poor- 

 ly denned. Pronotum with surface evenly and weakly convex, 

 greatest width near caudal margin, that margin transverse, show- 

 ing practically no convexity. Tegmina strongly reduced, over- 

 lapping but not reaching beyond median segment, costal margin 

 rounding very broadly into transverse distal margin, sutural margin 

 straight, rounding suddenly into distal margin a short distance 

 beyond the anal field, with longitudinal trend of discoidal sectors 

 discernible. Wings minute aborted pads, reaching to base of 

 median segment. Supra-anal plate triangularly produced with 

 immediate apex minutely emarginate, length one-third prox- 

 imal width. Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, projecting moderately 

 mesad, the lateral portions raised so that the plate appears broadly 

 V-shaped mesad when seen from the rear. Ventro-cephalic margin 

 of cephalic femora armed with a row of spines which decrease rapidly 

 and irregularly distad, terminated by two elongate spines; ventro- 

 caudal margin armed with two widely spaced spines meso-distad 

 and a single distal spine. Other ventral femoral margins moderately 

 supplied with spines. Succeeding tarsal joints two-thirds as long 

 as caudal metatarsus, the four proximal tarsal joints supplied with 

 moderately well-developed pul villi. Large arolia present between 

 the very feebly specialized, symmetrical tarsal claws, these claws 



81 This is slightly narrower than in lutea minima and appreciably narrower 

 than normally in the West Indian genotype, C. delicatula (Guerin). 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



having lost an internal flange and with weak serrulations of ventral 

 margin visible only under very high magnification. 82 



Head with occiput ochraceous-buff, a broad band of prouts 

 brown between the eyes, the ventral margin of which is broadly 

 concave, succeeded by a slightly broader band of white, in which 

 laterad are located the ocellar spots and the ventral margin of 

 which is transverse, below this the face is heavily suffused with 

 prouts brown, the remaining portions ochraceous-buff, with flecks 

 of prouts brown below the antennae, which send an oblique ray 

 toward the median portion of the face. Antennae ochraceous-buff, 

 with slight suffusions of darker on the three proximal segments. 

 Maxillary palpi ochraceous-buff, the last joint tinged with tawny 

 and becoming cinnamon brown distad. Pronotum with lateral por- 

 tions transparent, very faintly tinged with buff; disk ochraceous- 

 buff, beautifully and heavily pictured with cinnamon brown, as fig- 

 ured. Tegmina transparent, very faintly tinged with buff. Dor- 

 sal surface of abdomen blackish brown and cinnamon brown, with 

 lateral margins irregularly bordered with ochraceous-buff and three 

 rows of irregular spots of the same color. Cerci ochraceous-buff, 

 ventral surface and dorsal surface proximad suffused with prouts 

 brown, the latter with a fleck of prouts brown meso-distad. Limbs 

 ochraceous-buff, the cephalic femora delicately margined dorsad 

 and all the dorsal spines of the tibiae with flecks at their bases of 

 prouts brown. Abdomen with ventral surface bordered narrowly 

 laterad with light ochraceous-buff, this margined internally with 

 prouts brown, within which is a fleck of the same color on each seg- 

 ment, remaining portions ochraceous-buff, ecxept for a broad medio- 

 longitudinal band of blackish chestnut brown, which expands caudad 

 on the subgenital plate. 



Length of body 7, length of pronotum 2.1, width of pronotum 3, 

 length of tegmen 2.7, width of tegmen 2.1 mm. 



In addition to the type, a large immature male bearing the same 

 data and a smaller immature individual from Ceres, Santa Fe, 

 Argentina, are in the Hebard Collection. 



Neoblattella conspersa (Brunner) Plate IX, figure 20. 



1865. Ph[yllodr omia] conspersa Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 106. [d\ 

 Brazil.] 



Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco, Argentina, 1 d\ 1 9 . 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio Misiones, Argentina, 4 9,1 juv. 



The species has been once previously recorded from Argentina, 



by Rehn from the Misiones. The male genitalia are here figured 



82 The specialization of the tarsal claws was not recognized at the time the 

 genus Cariblatta was described. It is apparent that in degenerate forms this 

 specialization is much reduced or obsolete. In delicatula and other long-winged 

 species, a flange, minutely but conspicuously serrulate, is found, but in lutea lutea 

 and lutea minima this has entirely disappeared, leaving no trace even of ser- 

 rulation. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



for the first time, showing the contrasting differences between 

 conspersa and platystylata, described on page 229. 



The females of these species are separated with difficulty, as com- 

 mented upon under platystylata. In the present insect the lateral 

 margins of the female subgenital plate on each side of the meso- 

 distal portion are produced dorsad in small plates, the truncate 

 apices of these armed with a regular series of (usually 7) equal, 

 chaetiform spines. At the base of these plates, within the anal 

 chamber on the dorsal surface of the subgenital plate, are situated 

 projections of similar character, but more reduced and bearing a 

 lesser number of spines. The size and form of these appendages 

 is subject to some individual variation. In all but these two species 

 of the genus Neoblattella known to us, the female subgenital plate 

 shows no trace of such specialization. 



The males at hand have the meso-distal portion of the supra-anal 

 plate showing some individual variation. In this sex the sub- 

 genital plate is immaculate, the dark marking of the ventral sur- 

 face of the abdomen not extending that far caudad; this is true for 

 the Argentinian females also, but not for the more intensively col- 

 ored females from Igarape-Assu, Para, Brazil. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 



cf body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Bonito, Pernambuco, Brazil 9.6-10.7 2.6-2.8 3.6-3.7 11.3-11.4 3.3-3.4 



(2) 



Igarape-Assu, Para, Brazil 10.8 2.7 3.3 11.6 3.2 



Contamano, Rio Ucayali, 9.7 2.8 3.3 11.4 3.1 



Peru 83 



Colonia Florencia, Chaco, 11.8 3.1 4.1 12.3 4 



Argentina 



Misiones, Argentina 11 3 3.8 12.8 3.8 



9 

 Igarape-Assu, Para, Brazil (5) 9.1-10.3 2.7-2.8 3.4-3.7 10.4-113.3-3.4 

 Sapucay, Paraguay 84 9.8 2.8 3.5 10 3.2 



Colonia Florencia, Chaco, 3.2 4.2 12.2 3.8 



Argentina 

 Villa Lutecia, Misiones, 11-12.5 3-3.1 4-4 12.4-12.6 4-4 



Argentina (4) 



Distinctly greater size is shown by the Argentinian series, appar- 

 ently a geographic feature. 



83 This specimen, in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, was 

 taken October to December, 1912. 



84 This specimen, belonging to the United States National Museum, was re- 

 corded as Blattella conspersa by Caudell, the individual being mistaken for a male, 

 Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XII, p. 183, (1904). 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Neoblattella puerilis (Rehn) 



1915. Ceratinoplera puerilis Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, p. 

 273, fig. I. [cf; Misiones, Argentina.] 



The type of this species now before us, shows that it agrees in 

 all valid generic features with the genus Neoblattella. Species of 

 that genus, however, showing decidedly reduced tegmina, were 

 previously unrecognized. 



The insect is clearly of more recent common ancestry with the 

 genotype, A T . adspersicollis (Stal), than many of the species which 

 we believe to be properly referable to Neoblattella and it would 

 appear advisable to assign it to the Adspersicollis Group, though 

 additional evidence may show it and the species described below 

 to belong to a distinct, though closely related, group. 



The broad form; arrangement of dark punctae on face and disk 

 of pronotum; simple, straight, elongate similar styles; large pulvilli, 

 and decided serration of the flange of the tarsal claws, are all features 

 shared by adspersicollis. 



The smaller spines of the ventro-cephalic margin of the cephalic 

 femora are irregularly interspersed with a few (3 and 4) chaetiform 

 spines, showing some slight divergence from the condition usually 

 shown by the species of the genus. 



Neoblattella tapenagae new species. Plate X, figure 8. 



Close relationship to N. puerilis (Rehn) is shown. Compared 

 with the male type of that species, females are readily distinguish- 

 able by the richer coloration and distinctive markings of head, 

 pronotum and tegmina, the type "B" armament of the ventro- 

 cephalic margins of the cephalic femora and even larger pulvilli. 



This is the first case in our studies of the Blattellae where, in the 

 same genus, the armament of the ventro-cephalic margin of the 

 cephalic femora is found to be of type "A" in most species, but as 

 clearly of type "B" in one case. Transitional stages are shown in 

 N. puerilis (Rehn) and N. janeirae, described on page 226. This 

 difference, we feel we can safely state, may be used as a criterion 

 for generic separation in most genera of the Blattellae, but the 

 characterization of Neoblattella, much the largest genus of the group, 

 must be changed to include both types. 



Type: 9 ; Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco, Argentina. 

 [Paris Museum.) 



Size large, form very broad for the genus. Interocular space wide, 

 slightly narrower than that between antennal sockets. Ocellar 

 spots moderately large, distinct, these areas rounding broadly into 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



the adjacent portions. Lateral margins of cheeks weakly conver- 

 gent ventrad. Maxillary palpi moderately short for the genus, 

 fourth joint nearly as long as third, large fifth joint three-quarters 

 as long as fourth. Tegmina decidedly reduced, covering slightly 

 less than half the dorsal surface of the abdomen; costal margin very 

 gently arcuate, broadly rounding distad into the broadly rounded 

 distal margin, sutural margin nearly straight, rounding much more 

 suddenly, though broadly, into the distal margin; venation dis- 

 tinct, the cauda] margin cutting the veins abruptly, the discoidal 

 sectors (3 to 6 in the series) cut off before reaching a truly longitudi- 

 nal direction, so that the portions shown appear very weakly oblique 

 to the sutural margin 85 . Wings vestigal, extending to the caudad 

 margin of the metanotum. Supra-anal plate two-fifths as long as its 

 basal width, lateral margins broadly concave-convergent to dis- 

 tal portion, which is bilobate, due to a moderate meso-distal emar- 

 gination (which is sharp in the type, rounded in the paratype). 

 Subgenital plate simple, large, weakly produced, the free margin 

 weakly concave beneath the cerci and mesad, weakly convex be- 

 tween these portions. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora 

 armed with (4 to 6; in the case of the greater number, with the last 

 two considerably smaller) heavy, elongate, well-spaced proximal 

 spines, succeeded by a row of (11 to 15) minute, closely placede 

 chaetiform spinulae, terminated by three heavy spines, elongats 

 in increasing ratio distad. Pulvilli of four proximal tarsal joint, 

 unusually large for the genus, occupying the entire ventral surfaces 

 of the three tarsal joints succeeding the metatarsus, apices acute, 

 Tarsal claws symmetrical, well-developed flanges with (5) teeth 

 decided. Moderately well-developed arolia present. 



Head with vertex light ochraceous-tawny with an orange tinge, 

 a large transverse suffusion of chestnut-brown between the ventral 

 portions of the eyes and dorsal portions of the antennal sockets, 

 ocellar spots and face ochraceous-buff, the latter with a narrow, 

 transverse suffusion of chestnut-brown above the clypeus, which 

 broadens on the cheeks. In one paratype there is an additional 

 narrower transverse suffusion of the same color between these. 

 Pronotum in median portion light ochraceous-tawny with an orange 

 tinge, this bordered on each side by a longitudinal suffusion of 

 chestnut-brown, which broadens caudad; disk with light flecks of 

 chestnut brown, 86 three in an oblique row on each side mesad, two 

 caudad ; lateral portions transparent, faintly tinged with buff y, mar- 

 gins themselves buffy with an orange tinge. Tegmina showing a 

 continuation of the pronotum coloring, the suffusion of the humeral 



85 This is not true of puerilis, in which the tegminal reduction is as great, but 

 the brief portions of the discoidal sectors are plainly longitudinal to the sutural 

 margin. It would appear that reduction of these organs affects the direction of 

 the veins more in some species than in others. 



86 In one paratype of more intensive coloration these flecks are supplemented 

 by small, weak suffusions and lines, giving a more nearly pictured appearance. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



trunk a continuation of the darker pronotal areas, beyond this with 

 veins paler, dresden brown, but intervening areas chestnut-brown. 

 Mesonotum and metanotum ochraceous-buff. Abdomen dorsad 

 shining blackish brown, the broader tergites narrowly margined 

 laterad with ochraceous-buff and with weak, paired, small buffy 

 flecks mesad. Cerci blackish brown, becoming buffy disto-dorsad. 

 Limbs light ochraceous-buff with an orange tinge, very narrowly 

 marked with prouts brown at bases of spines, tarsal joints each heav- 

 ily suffused with prouts brown distad. Ventral surface of abdomen 

 shining blackish brown, narrowly margined laterad with ochraceous- 

 buff, this including the proximal portion of the subgenital plate. 



In a large immature female before us the coloration is much darker. 

 Dorsal surface, except hyaline lateral portions of thoracic segments, 

 which are tinged with dresden brown, blackish brown, this slightly 

 deeper laterad, with slightly paler flecks on the broader abdominal 

 tergites. 



Length of body 87 13.1-13.3, length of pronotum 4.1-4.2, width 

 of pronotum 5.9-5.9, total length of tegmen ,s 6.9-6.7, width of teg- 

 men 4-4.2, length of caudal tibia 5.3-5.5 mm. 



In addition to the type, a paratypic female and a large immature 

 female, bearing the same data, as well as a paratypic female, with- 

 out further data than "Gran Chaco, " have been examined. 



Blattella germanica (Linnaeus) 



1767. [Blatta] germanica Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, p. 668. [Denmark.] 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, March 

 and April, I 9 . 



Rio Parana, IX, 29, 1897, 2 d\ 2 9 with oothecae, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1 juv. d". 



Litoblatta brasiliensis (Brunner) Plate X, figures 14, 15, 16 and 17. 



1865 I[schnoptera] brasiliensis Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 130, pi. Ill 

 fig. 12. [, 6 Brazil.] 



Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco, Argentina, Id". 



Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 14 d", 3 9 . 



Las Garzas, Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Argentina, 1 d" • 



Cruz del Eje, Cordoba, Argentina, 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina, (F. Schultz), 2 d", [Hebard Cln.]. 



San Rafael, Mendoza, Argentina, 680 meters,February, Id", 19- 



The new genus Litoblatta is erected to include this species on page 

 237. We have there placed Loboptera laurenziana Giglio-Tos in 

 synonymy as representing the female sex of this species. 



87 The measurements of the type are given first. 



88 The exposed length of these organs is slightly over one millimeter less. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 

 c? body pronotum pronotum tegmen 89 tegmen 



As indicated above, the series of this species from the vicinity of 

 Icafio, shows an exceptional amount of individual size variation. 



Ischnoptera ignobilis Saussure 



1864. Isch[noptera] ignobilis Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XVI, p. 



313. [cf , nee 9 ; 90 Buenos Aires, Argentina.] 

 1869. I[schnoptera] vilis Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XXI, p. 112. 



[[cf], Argentina.] 

 1897. L[oboptera] borellii Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. comp. Univ. 

 Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 3. [ 9 ; Caiza and San Francisco, Bolivia; Tala. 

 Argentina. ] 

 Gran Chaco, Argentina, 7 cf , 1 9 . 

 Colonia Florencia, Chaco, Argentina, 4 d\ 1 juv. 

 Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 14 6*, 4 9 • 

 Tucuman, Tucuman, Argentina, 3 9,2 juv. 

 Las Garzas, Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Agrentina, 3 cf . 

 Carcarafia, Santa Fe, Argentina, 8 cf , 4 9 , 10 juv., 1 ootheca, 

 IHebard Cln.]. 

 Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina, February, 1 juv. 

 Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina, (F. Schulz), 3 d" , 1 9 • 

 Montevideo, Uruguay, 3 juv. 



89 The exposed length of the tegmen is given for females. 



90 It appears almost certain that a male, possibly with subgenital plate damaged 

 or missing, was described by Saussure; which specimen he recorded as a female. 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



After careful study of the series at hand, the material previously 

 recorded as /. vilis Saussure from Paraguay and the Argentine, and 

 the literature, we are convinced that a single variable species is 

 represented. In coloration, a series of males from Sapucay, Para- 

 guay, agree with the male type of vilis, desribed from Corrientes, 

 Argentina, in having the lateral portions of the pronotum slightly 

 paler and more reddish than the dark brown remaining portions. 

 Three Paraguayan males, however, are at hand with pronotum 

 solidly colored. In the Argentinian material all of the males have 

 the pronotum solidly colored, varying from dark brown to rather 

 light reddish brown. In all specimens showing the bicolored prono- 

 tal condition before us, the femora are very dark brown the remain- 

 ing portions very contrastingly colored ; this limb coloration appears 

 in the Argentinian material, but shows slightly less decided con- 

 trast, varying to a condition in which the limbs are uniform light 

 brown. This latter condition is shown by the majority of the Ar- 

 gentinian males, as well as by two of the three Paraguayan males 

 with unicolorous pronotum. The vertex is individually dark or 

 pale. 



In the concealed genitalia we find the paired plate beneath the 

 supra-anal plate to be very large, the dextral plate much the larger, 

 with periphery rounded, bearing along its ventral margin numerous 

 spiniform hairs and near the distal portion of this margin with a 

 small, irregular, chitinous area, flanked byachitinous spine directed 

 distad. In the entire Paraguayan series this spine, though variable 

 in heaviness and length, is free and averages heavier than in the 

 Argentinian material showing that condition. In other Argentinian 

 specimens the spine is indicated only as a sharp, slender, chitinous 

 projection along the external margin of thesubchitinous area, which 

 is not free. It would appear to be true that the Paraguayan ma- 

 terial shows incipient racial differentiation, but this has not, in our 

 opinion, yet reached either sufficient degree or stability to war- 

 rant nominal recognition. 



Comparison of the females before us, with Giglio-Tos ' description 

 of Loboptera borellii, shows that name to be based on material re- 

 presenting that sex of the present species. 



Measurements (in millimeters). . 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 



c? body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Sapucay, Paraguay (10) 16-17 4-4.2 5.5-5.9 16.7-17.3 5-5.5 



Carcarafia, Argentina (9) 12-15 3.2-3.8 4.4-5 14-16.7 4.1-5.3 



9 



Tucuman, Argentina (3) 17-17.2 5-5.3 7.3-7 5-5.1 3.3-3.4 



Carcarafia, Argentina (4) 14-15.6 4.3-4.5 5.9-6.2 3.6-4.7 2.8-3 



Cordoba, Argentina 14.3 4.3 6 3.9 2.9 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



The elongate triangular, pad-like, lateral tegmina of females of 

 the present species show a differentiation in this sex somewhat simi- 

 lar to that developed in J. deropeltiformis (Brunner) . These species, 

 however, do not belong to the same species group, as stated by us 

 in 1917. 91 One striking feature of difference between the females 

 of these species is that in those of ignobilis vestigial wings are present 

 as minute pads beneath the apices of the tegmina, their very apices 

 alone sometimes projecting and scarcely extending beyond the 

 caudal margin of the metanotum. 



The Gran Chaco specimens average large for the species, all but 

 one having the pronotum solidly blackish brown. A single speci- 

 men has the pronotum dull mahogany red, becoming bay caudad; 

 the tegmina, as in the others, chestnut tinged with bay proximad. 



The individuals in the Icano series average smaller, all having the 

 pronotum solidly colored, blackish brown to chestnut brown, the 

 tegmina agreeing with the pronotum in coloration except in two, 

 which have the pronotum very dark but these organs deep chestnut. 



Ischnoptera car car ana new species. Plate XI, figures 1, 2 and 3. 



This is a small species, showing, however, closer relationship to 

 the much larger I. ignobilis Saussure than to the numerous other 

 small species of the genus. 



The general coloration is darker than in ignobilis ; the limbs strik- 

 ingly bicolored, as is sometimes the case in that species. The con- 

 cealed male genitalia are distinctive, while in the brachypterous 

 males and the females the triangular lateral tegminal pads are 

 smaller than in females of ignobilis and wing pads are not present. 



A feature which we have never hitherto met with in studying the 

 Blattidae is the complete and non-intergrading dimorphism de- 

 veloped in the male sex of this species. Two males before us have 

 fully developed tegmina and wings. Three males show the general 

 contour, tegmina represented by minute lateral pads and complete 

 absence of wings, such as is true for the two females at hand. 



Though certain species are known to develop all degrees of teg- 

 minal and wing reduction, from a fully developed to a much re- 

 duced type, it would appear unlikely that intermediate conditions 

 occur in males of carcarana, so extreme and clear cut are the mac- 

 ropterous and brachypterous conditions shown. The brachypter- 

 ous type, in fact, shows for both sexes a retention in the adult con- 



91 Mem. Am. Ent. Soc, No. 2, p. 62. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



dition of many features of the early stages. The macropterous 

 males show the usual differentiation from the early stages developed 

 by adults of the normal macropterous species of Ischnoptera. 



The close agreement of the brachypterous males and females 

 offers ample evidence that they represent a single species. The 

 macropterous males are assigned to the same species through their 

 close similarity in genitalic characters, limb armament and color- 

 ation, the differences shown being wholly attributable to the fac- 

 tors discussed above. 



Type: cf; Carcarana, Santa Fe, Argentina. [Hebard Collect- 

 ion Type no. 704.] 



Size small, form rather slender for the genus. Interocular space 

 broad, as wide as that between the antennal sockets. Ocellar spots 

 moderately large, though small and poorly defined for the genus, 

 the area which they occupy not sharply delimited from the inter- 

 ocular-ocellar and rounding into it. Maxillary palpi with fourth 

 joint three-quarters as long as third, third joint three-quarters as 

 long as the elongate fifth joint. Latero-caudal sulci of pronotal 

 disk deep and strongly defined. Tegmina and wings extending 

 well beyond the cereal apices. Wings with a small intercalated 

 triangle, ulnar vein with (3) incomplete and (1) complete branches. 

 Dorsal surface of abdomen specialized as characteristic of genus. 

 Supra-anal plate symmetrical, trapezoidal with angles rounded, 

 width between cerci about twice length, surface weakly concave 

 except above cereal bases and meso-distad on each side where it is 

 weakly convex, distal margin transverse, showing weak lateral 

 convexity and very broad and weak median emargination, so that 

 a sub-bilobate condition is developed; ventral surface with a very 

 delicate transverse ridge between cereal bases and supplied distad 

 with elongate hairs. Paired plate beneath supra-anal plate de- 

 veloped into very large, flattened lobes; the sinistral forming an 

 unarmed transverse ridge toward its dorsal margin, the dextral 

 with a heavier transverse ridge mesad, this ridge, as well as the por- 

 tion of the plate ventrad, armed with a number of minute but stout 

 spines. Titillator elongate and very slender, widening slightly be- 

 fore the aciculate apex but unspecialized. Subgenital plate with 

 surface strongly convex, except in produced area where it is 

 weakly concave; sinistral margin oblique and rather strongly con- 

 cave to median portion, dextral margin oblique and more broadly 

 concave a greater distance, the portion of the margin between being 

 short, straight, transverse. Sinistral style situated on sinistral mar- 

 gin mesad of the cercus, simple, cylindrical, weakly tapering to the 

 sharply rounded apex, with shaft weakly decurved, covered with 

 coarse hairs as is the subgenital plate. Dextral style situated me- 

 sad on the short, transverse distal margin, very similar but slightly 

 shorter, with decurvature slightly greater and apex slightly blunter 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



269 



and armed with minute spines. Armament of limbs as character- 

 istic of the genus. Four proximal tarsal joints supplied distad 

 with small but readily observed pulvilli. Moderately well devel- 

 oped arolia present between the slender, simple, symmetrical tarsal 

 claws. 



Allotype: 9 ; Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina. [Paris 

 Museum.] 



Agrees with macropterous male type except in the following 

 characters. Size larger, form broader. Interocular space dis- 

 tinctly wider than that between antennal sockets. Ocellar spots 

 smaller, ocellar areas not differentiated. Pronotum with latero- 

 caudal sulci of disk obsolete; greatest width at latero-caudal angles; 

 caudal margin truncate, very broadly convex, transverse. Teg- 

 mina minute, rounded triangular, broad, lateral pads, extending 

 only slightly beyond caudal margin of mesonotum, but with ven- 

 ation distinct. Wings absent. Supra-anal plate slightly less than 

 half as long as its basal width, triangularly produced with apex 

 sharply rounded. p Subgenital plate convex, with free margin 

 broadly convex. Limbs slightly heavier. 



Three brachypterous males, which we have discussed above, 

 agree in all but genitalic features with the allotype, except that 

 the interocular space is only slightly wider than that between the 

 antennal sockets. 



Head shining blackish, ocellar spots buffy, palpi blackish chest- 

 nut brown, mouth-parts cinnamon brown. Pronotum solidly black- 

 ish. Tegmina of male blackish and opaque proximad, weakening 

 mesad, becoming translucent tinged with prouts brown, and trans- 

 parent distad, very weakly tinged with prouts brown, as is the area 

 of the dextral tegmen which is concealed when at rest. Tegmina 

 of female blackish and opaque. Body, cerci, coxae and femora 

 blackish chestnut brown. Tibiae and tarsi tawny. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 

 c? body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Carcarana, type 



Carcarafia, paratype 



Rosario, paratype 



Buenos Aires, paratype 



Buenos Aires, paratype 

 9 



Buenos Aires, allotype 



Buenos Aires, paratype 



Specimens Examined: 13; 5 males, 2 females and 6 immature in- 

 dividuals. 92 



92 Two immature individuals from Montevideo, Uruguay, are before us, which 

 represent this or a very closely related species. They differ from the Carcarana 

 juveniles in having the limbs almost unicolorus, the tibiae distad and the tarsi 

 being only slightly less dark than the other portions, which are black. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Carcaraiia, Santa F6, Argentina, 2 c\ type and paratype, 4 juv. 

 cT, 2 juv. 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Rosario, Santa Fe, Argentina, (H. Stempelmann,) 1 cf, paratype, 

 [Hebard Cln.]. 



Vicinity of Buenos Aires, Buenos, Argentina, February, 2 cT, 

 2 9 , allotype and paratype, [Paris Museum], 



Ischnoptera argentina new species. Plate XI, figures 4, 5 and 6. 



This species is very closely related to J. rufa (De Geer), differing 

 in important features of the male genitalia, the distinctly less red- 

 dish general coloration of the males and differently shaped female 

 supra-anal plate. 93 



It is probable that it was the present, or a related undescribed 

 speces, which Giglio-Tos has recorded as rufa from San Lorenzo, 

 Argeintina and San Francisco and Caiza, Bolivia. 94 



Rehn's records of rufa from Misiones, Argentina, are based on 

 very light specimens of I. ignobilis Saussure. 95 



Type: cT; San Nicolas, Buenos Aires, Argentina. November 5, 

 1897. [Hebard Collection Type no. 671.] 



Size medium large, form moderately stout. Head with inter- 

 ocular space appreciably narrower than that between the ocelli, 

 (varying in male paratypes to nearly that width). Ocelli distinct, 

 flattened surfaces of ocellar areas slanting rather strongly mesad, 

 very slightly more so than in rufa. Maxillary palpi rather short. 

 Pronotum with discal sulci decided. Tegmina and wings elongate, 

 more so than in rufa, much as in I. angustifrons Hebard. Supra- 

 anal plate produced ; lateral margins weakly convergent, distal mar- 

 gin transverse, three-quarters length of plate; surface subchitinous 

 in a large transverse oval, just proximad of distal margin; ventral 

 surface with very short, stout bristles, near sinistral margin and on 

 a moderately prominent convex area adjacent to the dextral margin 

 of the subchitinous area. Paired plate beneath supra-anal plate spe- 

 cialized : at base of sinistral style produced mesad in a chitinous re- 

 curved spine, the dorso-proximal portion of which is subchitinous; 

 at base of dextral style produced mesad in a heavy shafted, chitinous 

 spine, over twice as long, directed caudad and then curving broadly 

 inward to its aciculate apex. Titillator with apex similarly special- 



93 Though the female supra-anal plate varies in having the lateral margins 

 straight convergent to rather broadly concave convergent in rufa (upon which 

 apparent difference was based Saussure 's consobrina, a synonym of rufa occi- 

 dentalis Saussure), the lateral emargination of this plate shown by females of 

 argentina is of a different quality and much more decided than is shown by any 

 of tbe large series of the females of the races of rufa before us. 



94 Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. corap. Univ. Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 5, (1897). 

 95 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 276, (1913); ibid., 1915, p. 272, (1915). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



ized to that of rufa, but shorter and proportionately broader. Sub- 

 genital plate strongly asymmetrical as characteristic of genus, much 

 as in rufa except that the larger style is slightly heavier, less than 

 three times as broad as long and not twice as long (varying in the 

 series to nearly twice as long) as the unarmed sinistral style. 

 Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Similar to male in ambisexual characters except those of color- 

 ation. Size larger, form appreciably broader with pronotum more 

 ample. Head with interocular space slightly narrower, (varying 

 in the series to slightly wider) than that between the ocelli. Pro- 

 notum with discal sulci weak. Tegmina and wings broader than 

 in male, surpassing the cereal apices (to different degrees in the 

 series but never by as much as in the opposite sex). Supra-anal 

 plate with lateral portions of free margin very strongly convergent 

 and broadly convex to median produced portion, this portion with 

 margin convex, nearly forming a semicircle (one paratype shows 

 slightly greater convexity at the apex than elsewhere in the margin 

 of the produced portion). Subgenital plate convex, free margin 

 broadly convex, except below cerci, where it is broadly concave. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 

 cf body 



Paraguay 13 



San Nicolas, Argentina, type 14 . 3 

 San Nicolas, Argentina, para- 13-15 



types (3) 

 Carcarafia, Argentina 12 . 5 



Cordoba, Argentina 12.5 



9 

 San Nicolas, Argentina, alio- 18 



type 

 San Nicolas, Argentina, para- 15-18.7 



types (10) 

 Carcarafia, Argentina (2) 14.8-16.7 

 Icano, Argentina 16.3 



Coloration. Male. Head with vertex and inter-ocular-ocellar 

 area auburn, ocelli warm buff, other portions cinnamon-buff show- 

 ing a very faint tawny tinge. Antennae with proximal joints 

 cinnamon-buff, remaining portions bister. Pronotum light och- 

 raceous-tawny. Tegmina ochraceous-buff, tinged with tawny ex- 

 cept in marginal fields. Dorsal surface of abdomen blackish chest- 

 nut brown. Ventral surfaces of thoracic segments and all of limbs 

 cinnamon-buff showing a very faint tawny tinge, spines tawny. 

 Ventral surface of abdomen cinnamon brown, gradually deepening 

 to blackish chesinut brown laterad and distad. 



Female similarly colored except that the pronotum is tawny, the 

 tegmina tawny, except in marginal field, which is ochraceous-tawny. 

 The series of females at hand shows, a considerable amount of in- 

 tensification and recession of color, all, however, being more tawny 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



than the more uniformly colored males. As a result, there is a color 

 contrast between the sexes, a condition which does not occur in 

 rufa. In the maximum intensive female (Carcarafia) the vertex 

 to below the ocelli is rich deep chestnut brown. The pronotum is 

 similarly colored, becoming almost black in the mesal portion. The 

 tegmina are ochraceous -tawny, weakly suffused with chestnut brown 

 proximad, with marginal field buckthorn brown showing a weak 

 tawny tinge. 



Specimens Examined 19; 7 males and 12 females. 



Paraguay, 1 cf , [Hebard Cm.]. 



Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco, Argentina, 1 cf , [Paris 

 Museum]. 



San Nicolas, Buenos Aires, Argentina, November 5, 1897, 4 cf , 

 11 9 , type, allotype, paratypes, [Hebard On.]. 



Carcarafia, Santa Fe, Argentina, 1 cf, 2 9 , (1 with ootheca), 

 [Hebard Cln.]. 



Icafio, Santiago del Estero, 1 9 , ]Paris Museum]. 



Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina, (F. Schulz), 1 cf , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Ischnoptera bilunata Saussure. 



1869. I[schnoptera] bilunata Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XXI, p. 

 111. [cf; Chiquitos, [Bolivia].] 



Sapucay, Paraguay, February 10, 1901, (W. T. Foster), 1 cf , 96 

 [U. S. N. M. ]. 



Gran Chaco, Argentina, 2 9 , [Paris Museum]. 



Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco Argentina, 1 cf, 1 9, 

 [Paris Museum.]. 



La Palisa del Bracho, Laguna Mamaita, Santiago del Estero, 

 1 cf, 19, [Paris Museum]. 



Troncal, Santiago del Estero, 1 9 , [Paris Museum]. 



Icafio, Santiago del Estero, 1 cf, 1 9,1 juv. cf , [Paris Museum]. 



Las Garzas, Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Argentina, 2 9 , [Paris 

 Museum]. 



Carcarafia, Santa Fe, Argentina, 4 cf , 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Comparison has been made with a specimen from Santa Cruz, 

 Bolivia, in the Academy collection. 



jschnoptera litostylata new species. Plate XI, figures 7 and 8. 



This diminutive species would appear to be a paler and smaller 

 type, related to I. saussurei and I. icano here described. Closer ex- 

 amination shows, however, that it belongs to a distinct phylum of 



96 Bearing label "Blattella germanica, 9 " and so recorded by Caudell, Jour, 

 N. Y. Ent. Soc. , XII, p. 183, (1904). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



the small species of the genus, particularly distinctive in having the 

 styles of the male subgenital plate simple, straight, cylindrical and 

 virtually unarmed. 



As we have elsewhere noted, a great number of small species of 

 the genus exist, divisible by color features and pattern into only 

 a few very large groups. The specialization of the male genitalia 

 is distinctive in these species, often showing an astonishingly in- 

 tricate development. Females are ,however, exceedingly difficult 

 ot separate and should never be recorded as this or that species 

 without the aid of some definite sex correlation. 



Type: d"; Las Garzas, 97 Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Argentina. 

 [Paris Museum.] 



Size small, smaller than in saussurei or icano, form moderately 

 slender. Interocular space very broad, slightly wider than that 

 between the large ocelli, four-fifths as wide as that between the 

 antennal sockets. Ocellar areas, maxillary palpi, few microscopic 

 hairs of pronotum and tegmina, tegmina, wings and specialization 

 of dorsal surface of abdomen as described for icano on page 276. 

 Eighth tergite with caudal margin not as decidedly concave as in 

 that species. Supra-anal plate nearly symmetrical, length approxi- 

 mately half basal width, surface very weakly convex in all but small 

 latero-proximal portions, lateral margins straight and moderately 

 convergent in brief portions to beyond cereal bases, thence less 

 strongly convergent and feebly convex to distal portions, this polr- 

 tion broadly and weakly bilobate, the dextral slightly broader than 

 the sinistral lobe, the median emargination thus formed broadly 

 obtuse-angulate and rounded. Ventral surface of supra-anal plate 

 with a small but heavy conical projection, slightly mesad of the 

 base of the sinistral cercus; with a large, heavy tuft of agglutinated, 

 chaetiform spines, which curve sinistrad, situated a brief distance 

 before the base of the distal emargination, and with the dextral 

 margin somewhat thickened ventro-proximad and armed with 

 chaetiform spines. Paired plate beneath supra-anal plate large., 08 

 Subgenital plate rather decidedly convex laterad; sinistral margin 

 nearly transverse to median production, a brief distance before 

 that supplied with an elongate, slender, straight, cylindrical style, 

 over four times as long as broad ; dextral margin moderately oblique 

 produced, broadly convex to median production, that area very 

 small, about twice as broad as long, with margin broadly convex 

 sinistrad to the rectangular, sharply rounded dextral angle, before 

 which is situated the dextral style, slightly inset, but in every other 

 way similar to the sinistral style." These styles are virtually un- 



97 Twenty five kilometers west of Ocampo. 



98 In greater part hidden in the specimens at hand. 



99 In the paratype these styles average even longer, fully five times as long as 

 board. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



armed, though one or two minute spines may be discerned dorad 

 near their apices. Armament of limbs as characteristic of genus. 

 Pulvilli, tarsal claws and arolia as described for icano on page 276. 



Head auburn, shading ventrad to buffy, ocelli light buff. Ant- 

 ennae buffy proximad, shading rapidly to dresden brown. Palpi 

 warm buff, with distal joint slightly darkened. Pronotum och- 

 raceous-buff, weakly translucent cephalad and laterad, disk very 

 faintly tinged with ochraceous -tawny except latero-caudad, where 

 this becomes slightly heavier. Tegmina strongly translucent, 

 ochraceous-buff , very faintly tinged with ochraceous-tawny, except 

 in marginal field; veins not darkened. Wings transparent, even 

 more weakly tinged with the same coloration, area of costal veins 

 not darkened. Dorsal surface of abdomen buffy proximad, marbled 

 with cinnamon-brown meso-distad, solidly cinnamon-brown distad. 

 Cerci cinnamon-brown, becoming slightly paler distad. Limbs 

 ochraceous-buff, the spines ochraceous-tawny. Ventral surface 

 of abdomen cinnamon-brown. 



The Paraguayan male is slightly darker, the pronotal suffusion 

 slightly heavier and the proximal portions of the tegmina more 

 strongly tinged with ochraceous-tawny. 



Length of body 100 9.3-9.5, length of pronotum 2.4-2.4, width of 

 pronotum 3-3.1, length of tegmen 9-9.2, width of tegmen 2.9-3 mm. 



In addition to the type, a paratypic male from Sapucay, Paraguay, 

 collected in October, by W. T. Foster and belonging to the United 

 States National Museum, has been studied. 101 



Ischnoptera saussurei 10 new species. Plate XI, figures 9 and 10. 



It is certain that Saussure 's Blatta fusca, described in 1869, 103 

 represents this or a closely related species. That name is preoccup- 

 ied by Blatta fusca Thunberg, 1784. As a result we here describe 

 saussurei in full, the insect requiring a new name if not actually re- 

 presenting a new species. 104 The importance of the male genitalic 

 development was not recognized at the time Saussure described 

 fusca and it will, as a result, be necessary to examine the type be- 

 fore that name can be definitely placed. 



The present species agrees closely with/, icano here described on 



100 The measurements of the type are given first. 



101 This specimen was recorded as Blattella germanica by Caudell, Jour. N. Y. 

 Ent. Soc. XII, p. 183. (1904). 



102 In honor of that illustrious Orthopterist, Henri de Saussure. 



103 Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2) ,XXI, p. 110. Described from Argentina, later 

 given as Corrientes, Argentina. 



104 Rehn suggested that fusca might prove to be a synonym of I. marginata 

 (Brunner) before the now large series of this section of the genus in the unstudied 

 collections had been assembled. At that time it was supposed that the number 

 of species, included in this section of the genus Ischnoptera, was much smaller 

 than we now know to exist. Proc. Acad. Nat . Sci. Phila., 1915, p. 272, footnote 4. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



page '276, differing signally only in the male genitalic specialization. 



Type: cf; Carcarafia, Santa Fe, Argentina. [Hebard Collection, 

 Type no. 752.] 



Size small, form moderately slender. Interocular space, ocellar 

 areas, maxillary palpi, intercalated triangle of wings, dorsal surface 

 of abdomen, titillator, armament of limbs, pulvilli, tarsal claws and 

 arolia as described for icano. Latero-caudal sulci of pronotal disk 

 moderately decided. Tegmina and wings fully developed, extend- 

 ing considerably beyond the cereal apices. Supra-anal plate sym- 

 metrical, two-fifths as long as basal width, brief lateral margins 

 nearly straight and almost transverse to within cereal bases, the 

 remaining produced portion symmetrically trapezoidal with angles 

 broadly rounded, its surface broadly convex, weakly chitinous meso- 

 distad, the latero-caudal angles thickened and well-supplied on 

 their ventral surfaces with spiniform hairs directed cephalad, the 

 dextral margin of this production mesad produced ventrad in a 

 large, rounded lobe, its caudal margin also supplied with spiniform 

 hairs directed meso-caudad. Within the anal chamber the socket 

 of the sinistral cercus is produced mesad in a minute conical pro- 

 jection; adjacent to the dextral cercus the corresponding section 

 is produced in a slender finger, which is directed mesad and then 

 curves, with considerable angulation, ventrad, its apex armed with 

 a few very minute spines. Paired plates beneath supra-anal plate 

 developed into large lobes, the sinistral plate extending two-thirds 

 the distance to the dextral cercus but more irregular and not as 

 strongly or evenly swollen as in icano. Subgenital plate with sur- 

 face supplied rather heavily with microscopic hairs, strongly convex, 

 free margin thickened sinistro-proximad and lying just outside the 

 sinistral cereal base, briefly inbent dextro-proximad beneath the 

 dextral cercus, sinistral margin very broadly concave and showing 

 very weak obliquity to the dextral style, which is situated a brief 

 distance mesad of the cercus, dextral margin broadly convex to 

 dextral style, where it forms an acute angulation, being very briefly 

 directed caudad to base of the style. Dextral style heavy, curving 

 sinistrad from its thickened base, two and one-half times as long as 

 its basal width, tapering to its blunt apex, with entire dorsal sur- 

 face thickly supplied with minute spines. Sinistral style on sinistral 

 margin a distance equal to its basal width from dextral style, taper- 

 ing and curved weakly dextrad beyond its slightly thickened base, 

 only slightly shorter but decidedly less heavy than dextral style 

 and unarmed. 105 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Agrees closely with male in all ambisexual characters, differing 

 in the following respects. Head slightly broader, the interocular 



108 Compared with icano, the marginal contour of the subgenital plate at the 

 styles and their general structure is found to be very similar. In satLssurei the 

 styles are appreciably heavier. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



space four-fifths as wide as that between the slightly less prominent 

 ocelli, but fully two-thirds that between the antennal sockets. 

 Supra-anal plate half as long as distance between cereal bases, pro- 

 duced and nearly semicircular between these, subchitinous in dis- 

 tal portions. Subgenital plate short, rather decidedly convex, free 

 margin broadly and nearly evenly convex. 



Coloration as described for icano. The male type has the medio- 

 longitudinal paler streak of the pronotum even more suffused, 

 while the allotype has this marking nearly obliterated. In the male 

 type the coxae are less darkened and the tegmina are more evenly 

 suffused, while in the female allotype the coloration is darker. 

 These features are due to intensification and recession in coloration 

 and it would appear that in color features saussurei and icano are 

 similar. 



Length of body o 71 10.2, 9 11 106 -10.7; length of pronotum cf 2.7, 

 9 3.1-2.9; width of pronotum tf 1 3.6, 9 4-3.8; length of tegmen o 71 

 12, 9 12.3-11.8; width of tegmen o 71 3.7, 9 3.9-3.7 mm. 



In addition to the type and allotype, a paratypic female, bear- 

 ing the same data, is before us. 



Ischnoptera icano new species. Plate XI, figures 11, 12 and 13. 



This species is very closely related to I. saussurei here described, 

 showing, however, distinctive features in the male genitalia. 



Of the small brown species of the genus, with pronotum margined 

 laterad and cephalad with buffy, five distinct species are before us 

 from the Argentine and Paraguay. Recent studies have shown 

 that an enormous number of forms belonging to this section of the 

 genus occur in tropical and subtropical America, frequently separ- 

 able on male genitalic characters alone, these parts, however, often 

 showing an intricacy of specialization of astounding degree. 



Type: c? ; Border of Rio Salado, near Icano, Santiago del Estero, 

 Argentina. [Paris Museum.] 



Size small, form moderately slender. Interocular space moderate- 

 ly broad, four-fifths as wide as that between the large ocelli, nearly 

 half that between the antennal sockets. Flattened surfaces of 

 ocellar areas forming a rather blunt angle with the interocellar area. 

 Maxillary palpi short, fifth joint very slightly longer than third, the 

 fourth two-thirds as long as the third joint. Latero-caudal sulci 

 of pronotal disk very decided. Microscopic hairs scattered over 

 lateral portions of pronotum and proximal portions of tegmina. 

 Tegmina and wings fully developed, extending a short distance be- 

 yond apices of cerci. Wings with a moderately well-developed 

 intercalated triangle. Dorsal surface of abdomen specialized as 

 is characteristic of the genus, eighth tergite with caudal margin 



106 The measurements of the allotype are here given first. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



rather strongly concave. Supra-anal plate nearly symmetrical, 

 slightly over half as long as basal width, brief lateral margins weakly 

 convex and almost transverse to median produced portion; this 

 portion strongly convex, the convexity extending to the base of the 

 plate, the free lateral margins consequently curled downward, round- 

 ing distad into the transverse, subchitinous distal margin, this por- 

 tion as long as its basal width, tapering evenly and gently distad 

 where it is supplied with a few, elongate, scattered hairs; ventral 

 surface unspecialized but furnished thickly at the disto-lateral 

 rounded angles of the produced portion with minute spiniform 

 hairs, these slightly the heavier on the dextral side and there ex- 

 tending to the base of the produced portion. Within the anal cham- 

 ber, adjacent to the sinistral cercus, the socket is developed in a 

 minute rounded lip without production, adjacent to the dextral 

 cercus the corresponding section is produced in a triangular pro- 

 jection, twice as long as its basal width, the caudal surface of which 

 is very deeply concave. Paired plates beneath supra-anal plate 

 developed into large lobes, apparently unarmed; the sinistral plate 

 expanding mesad into a very large rounded lobe, which extends 

 two-thirds the distance to the dextral cercus. Titillator with apex 

 simple, aciculate. Subgenital plate strongly convex, with surface 

 supplied rather heavily with microscopic hairs, lateral margins con- 

 sequently dorsal in position, straight produced, then curving broadly 

 ventrad, so that the margin beyond in dorsal aspect is transverse; 

 internal surface toward free margins and styles as hairy as external 

 surface. Sinistral style a stout, straight, cylindrical process, tap- 

 ering, slightly shorter than dextral style. Dextral style heavier, 

 springing from a minute offset of the margin, curved weakly sinis- 

 trad with a weak median angulation, proximal half stout and 

 slightly tapering, distal half more strongly tapering to the apex, 

 which, like the dorsal portion of the distal half, is armed with min- 

 ute spines. Armament of limbs as characteristic of the genus. 

 Four proximal tarsal joints supplied ventro-distad with small but 

 readily observed pulvilli. Moderately well developed arolia pre- 

 sent between the bases of the slender, simple, symmetrical tarsal 

 claws. 



Head auburn, shading to buffy on mouthparts; ocelli warm buff. 

 Antennae buffy proximad, shading rapidly to dresden brown. Dis- 

 tal joint of palpi prouts brown. Pronotum shining, auburn, with 

 a medio-longitudinal suffused tawny line and cephalic and lateral 

 margins narrowly translucent buffy, caudal margin tawny, these 

 paler marginal portion not sharply defined. Tegmina translucent, 

 light chestnut brown with costal field dark chestnut brown in inner 

 half and warm buff in half toward costal margin, costal veins dis- 

 tinctly darker than intervening areas. Wings very weakly suffused 

 with brown, area of costal veins darker, particularly the veins them- 

 selves. Dorsal surface of abdomen buffy proximad, the greater 

 portion laterad and distad chestnut brown. Cerci chestnut brown. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Cephalic coxae proximad and proximal half of median and caudal 

 coxae blackish chestnut brown, remaining portions of limbs buffy 

 with spines tawny. Ventral surface of abdomen chestnut brown, 

 shading to ochraceous-tawny meso-proximad. 



It is to be noted that the coloration of I. panamae Hebard, I. 

 tolteca Saussure and /. nana Saussure and Zehntner, shows close 

 agreement to that of this species. 



Length of body 11.2, length of pronotum 2.7, width of pronotum 

 3.4, length of tegmen 11.1, width of tegmen 3.3, length of cercus 2.2, 

 length of caudal femur 3.8, length of caudal metatarsus 1.9, length 

 of succeeding caudal tarsal joints 1.8 mm. 



In addition to the type, two paratypic males are before us from 

 La Palisa del Bracho, Laguna Mamaita, Santiago del Estero, 

 Argentina. 



Pseudomops neglecta Shelford. 



1906. P[seudomops] neglecta Shelford, Trans, Ent. Soc. London, 1906, p. 256. 

 [ 9 ; Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.] 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, 1 cf . 

 Gran Chaco, Argentina, 1 cf. 



Icano, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 1 cf , 2 9 . 

 Averias, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 1 9 . 

 Las Garzas, Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Argentina, 1 cf , 3 9 . 



NYCTIBOR1NAE. 

 Pseudischnoptera rhabdota 107 new species. Plate XI. figures 15, 16 and 17. 



This handsome insect is structurally very similar to P. lineata 

 (Olivier) ; differing only in the narrower interocular space, the very 

 broadly and weakly convex pronotal disk, which is fiat in that spec- 

 ies, and specialization of the meso-distal portion of the male supra- 

 anal plate. The coloration and color-pattern of tegmina and wings 

 is very distinctive in this insect, however, and very different from 

 the striking type shown by lineata. 



Type : cf ; Border of Rio Salado, near Icano, Santiago del Estero, 

 Argentina. [Paris Museum.] 



Size small, form relatively slender for the subfamily. Head elong- 

 ate, flattened; eyes not extending ventrad of the antenna! sockets 

 laterad; inter-ocular space moderately broad, two-fifths as wide as 

 that between the antennal sockets; ocellar spots small but distinct. 

 Maxillary palpi short, third joint as long as the decidedly expanded 

 fifth joint; fourth very slightly over half as long, expanding strongly 

 distad, with dorsal surface suddenly minutely impressed at the dis- 



107 From p^/3S(0T-rj= streaked. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



tal margin. Pronotum with disk broadly and very weakly convex, 

 the comparatively narrow lateral portions weakly declivent; pro- 

 notum triangular in shape with angles broadly rounded ; the lateral 

 margins diverging from the head to the latero-caudal angles, these 

 and the transverse caudal margin nearly straight, very feebly con- 

 vex; greatest width at latero-caudal angles. Tegmina and wings 

 fully developed, extending well beyond cereal apices, narrower but 

 showing similar venation to those of the species of Nyctibora. Dor- 

 sal surface of abdomen with median segment showing transverse 

 median depression, formed by the fusion of two circular depressions, 

 this depression partially filled with a pale substance which, in drying, 

 has become hard, like shellac. Fourth, sixth, and eighth tergites, with 

 latero-caudal angles alone produced and rounded. Supra-anal 

 plate bluntly triangularly produced, median portion depressed, 

 this area forming a distal longitudinal subchitinous area terminated 

 distad as the broadly convex apex of the plate, the chitinous portion 

 on each side terminating in a large, stout, straight, elongate spine, 

 directed caudad. 10S Subgenital plate deplanate, with lateral por- 

 tions narrowly bent dorsad as far as insertion of styles, the lateral 

 portions straight in ventral aspect and moderately convergent to 

 the broad and very weakly convex apex; sinistral style proximad, 

 springing from a point beneath base of sinistral cercus, straight, 

 cylindrical, tapering to its rounded apex and slightly over three 

 times as long as its basal width, lying along margin of plate; dextral 

 style springing from dextro-distal angle, similar, but only half as 

 large and only slightly over twice as long as its basal width, like- 

 wise lying along margin of plate. Cephalic femora armed in dis- 

 tal third of cephalic margin with (five to ten in the series) small, 

 stout spines, terminating in three large spines, more elongate in in- 

 creasing ratio distad ; ventro-caudal margin armed in corresponding 

 portion with (three or four) heavy, elongate spines. Ventro- 

 cephalic margins of other femora armed only distad with (one to 

 five in the series) small, stout, irregular spines; ventro-caudal mar- 

 gins well-supplied with stout and elongate spines. Caudal metatar- 

 sus unarmed; four proximal tarsal joints supplied with large pul- 

 villi. Large chitinous arolia present between the nearly symmetri- 

 cal, simple tarsal claws. Important features of coloration given 

 below. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Paris Museum.] 

 Agrees closely with male except in the following characters. 

 Eyes smaller, but with interocular space no wider. Pronotum 

 broader, with lateral margins slightly more convex. Tegmina and 

 wings reduced, reaching meso-distal portion of abdomen. Abdo- 

 men with dorsal surface unspecialized. Supra-anal plate hairy, 

 half as long as width between cerci, produced between these, the 



108 These spines similar to those found in lineata, but with depressed and sub- 

 chitinous intervening area distinctive. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



margins there broadly convex-convergent to a small distal emargina- 

 tion. Subgenital plate large, convex; margins below cerci concave, 

 broadly convex between these points. 



Coloration of sexes similar. Entire insect shining blackish brown, 

 except as follows. Eyes tawny olive, ocellar spots buffy. Ant- 

 ennae and limbs paling to chestnut brown distad. Pronotum mar- 

 gined cephalad and laterad with a band of warm buff, this band 

 narrowest cephalad, the immediate lateral margins narrowly black- 

 ish brown. Tegmina translucent except in darker portions; mar- 

 ginal field warm buff, the cingulate margin blackish brown paling 

 to ochraceous-tawny distad; humeral trunk suffused with blackish 

 brown in proximal two-thirds, remaining portions ochraceous- 

 tawny with interval between costal veins and veins of anal and 

 proximal portion of discoidal field buffy. Frequent individuals are 

 more strongly ferruginous in area between the humeral trunk and 

 sutural margin of the tegmina. Wings transparent, anterior field 

 tinged with ochraceous-tawny, the veins and entire area of costal 

 veins of this color; radiate field weakly tinged with ochraceous- 

 tawny. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 



cf body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Icafto, Argentina, type 20.5 4.9 6.7 19 6 



Icafio, Argentina, paratypes (4) 19.3-22 4.3-4.8 6.2-6.8 18-19.6 6-6.3 



Barrancas, Argentina 17.8 4.8 6.6 18.7 6.2 



9 



Icano, Argentina, allotype 19.2 5 6.8 12 '2 5.1 



Icafio, Argentina, paratype 17 4.8 6.7 11.8 5.7 



Barrancas, Argentina (3) 19.8-20 4.7-5.3 6.5-7 12.7-13.1 5.1-5.8 



Troncal, Argentina 18.8 4.8. 6.8 12.2 5.2 



It is of interest to note that, though the adults of this species do 

 not show the microscopic prostrate hairy covering usual in Nycti- 

 borids, that condition is shown, though not strongly, in the im- 

 mature stage. The immature individual before us has the prono- 

 tum marked as in the adults, the mesonotum and metanotum 

 bordered laterad more broadly with buffy, each of these areas 

 crossed by a band of blackish brown, the four larger abdominal 

 tergites with an elongate, narrow, longitudinal marking on each 

 side of buffy, the immediate lateral margins being dark. 



Specimens Examined: 14; 7 males, 6 females and 1 immature in- 

 dividual. 



Border of Rio Salado, near Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 

 2 cf, 2 9, type, allotype, paratypes,! juv. 



Guarda Escolta, near Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 4 cf . 



Barrancas, Banados del Rio Dulce, Santiago del Estero, Ar- 

 gentina, 1 cf , 3 9 . 



Troncal, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 1 9 . 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Nyctibora sericea Burmeister. 



1838. Nyctibora sericea Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 501 . 

 [Brazil.] 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, 1 9 . 

 The confusion which has existed, concerning the proper name to 

 be used for this species, is pointed out on page 239. 



Nyctibora glabra Giglio-Tos. 



1897. N[yctibora] glabra Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. comp. Univ. 

 Torino, XII, No. 302, p. 9. [cf, 9 ; San Francisco and Caiza, Ecuador.] 



Gran Chaco, Argentina, 1 cf, 1 juv. 



Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 1 cT, 2 9 . 



Rio Salado, near Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 2 9 . 



Guarda Escolta, near Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 13 

 cf , 3 9, 11 juv. 



Barrancas, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 2 9 . 



Cruz del Eje, Cordoba, Argentina, 3 juv., [Hebard Cln. ]. 



The size variation, shown by the males from Guarda Escolta, is 

 as follows; length of body 22-27.5, length of pronotum 5.3-6.4, width 

 of pronotum 7.7-9, length of tegmen 23.8-29, width of tegmen 7.8- 

 9 mm. 



EPILAMPRINAE. 



Epilampra cinerascens K runner. 



1865. E[pilampra] cinerascens Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 173. [cf 

 Brazil.] 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, 1 9 , [Heb- 

 ard Cln] 



The wing coloration is a distinctive feature in the present species. 

 The anterior field is rather strongly suffused with ochraceous-tawny, 

 slightly darkened in proximal two-thirds and particularly in area 

 of costal veins and with a few dark points on the margin distad; 

 the radiate field is weakly suffused with mummy brown, except 

 for a border around the peripheral margin which is weakly suffus- 

 ed with ochraceous-tawny, this border widening toward the ante- 

 rior field. 



Length of body 21, length of pronotum 5.1, width of pronotum 6.7, 

 length of tegmen 17.9, width of tegmen 5.9, leu I n of caudal femur 

 6.9 mm. 



Epilampra heusseriana Saussure. 



1864. Epil[ampra] heusseriana Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool., (2), XVI. 

 V, p. 321. [[9], Uruguay.] 



Montevieo, Uruguay, lcf, 19, [Hebard Cln. ]. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



This species has been assigned to the genera Calolampra and 

 Audreia, due mainly to the fact that the type female had short 

 truncate tegmina. Though this is true for the female sex, the male 

 before us is seen to have fully developed organs of flight, and shows 

 no characters which would warrant its being placed other than in 

 the genus Epilampra. The sexual diversity here shown is seen to 

 be in a way intermediate between that found in E. jorgenseni 

 (Rehn) 109 and the usual condition in the genus in which the sexes agree 

 closely. 



The female before us agrees closely with Saussure's figure, 110 ex- 

 cept in being more reddish, the ground coloration of pronotum and 

 tegmina being ochraceous-buff, tinged with ochraceous-tawny. 



The male shows the correctness of the sex association particularly 

 in many of the delicate features of color-pattern. As it had not 

 been previously recognized, we give the following data as to the 

 coloration of this sex. 



Head light ochraceous-buff, occiput with four irregular, vertical, 

 linear suffusions of blackish brown, below these a patch as long as 

 wide, of blackish brown. 111 Antennae ochraceous-buff. Pronotum 

 light ochraceous-buff, with very many microscopic dots of prouts 

 brown, numerous larger though minute dots and a delicate, inter- 

 rupted lyrate discal pattern of blackish brown. Tegmina trans- 

 parent light ochraceous-buff, with numerous minute dots (which 

 become smaller distad) and a few flecks of blackish brown, humeral 

 trunk blackish brown to nearly opposite apex of anal field. Limbs 

 light ochraceous-buff; femora margined dorsad with blackish brown, 

 a narrow medio-longitudinal weak suffusion on the cephalic face, 

 both faces with a heavy blackish brown suffusion disto-ventrad ; 

 tibiae dark brown in entire ventral half; distal portions of tarsal 

 joints suffused with dark brown. 



In the female the abdomen has the caudal margins of the tergites 

 regularly marked with small longitudinal patches of blackish brown, 

 which do not project. 112 



Length of body cf 20, 9 21.7; length of pronotum cf 5.7, 9 6.1; 

 length of tegmen cf 24, 9 7.1 113 ; width of tegmen cf 6, 9 5.5; 



109 See page 283, footnote 115. 



110 Mem. l'Hist. Nat. Mex., Ill, pi. II, fig. 24. 



111 In the female this patch is more extensive, fusing with the occipital lines 

 dorsad. 



112 Saussure describes these as "saiilies", this may be in error, as our specimens 

 agrees with the description very closely in all other respects. Many species of the 

 genus have longitudinal projections in place of the markings shown by the ex- 

 ample before us. 



113 Exposed length, 6 mm. 




1921] STATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



length of caudal femur cf 7.8, 9 6.8; length of caudal metatarsus 

 d" 3.2, 9 3 mm. 



The female recorded by Rehn from Para, Brazil, as this insect, 

 represents a distinct species, having in that sex transversely truncate 

 tegmina and immaculate tibiae. 



Epilampra berlandi 114 new species. Plate XII, figures 1 and 2. 



This handsome little insect is one of the smaller species of the 

 genus, showing in the male sex affinity to the larger, but in general 

 similarly colored, males of E. jorgenseni (Rehn). 115 Compared with 

 the male of that species, the present males are found to differ in the 

 decidedly smaller size, wider interocular space, less produced caudal 

 portion of pronotum, less diaphanous tegmina, with much more 

 numerous and smaller maculations and darker wings, with area of 

 costal veins opaque and very dark. Considering the affinity to 

 jorgenseni, we believe that the female of this species will also be 

 found to differ very greatly from the male. 



The size, rather depressed form, grayish coloration and shape 

 and marking of the tegmina give the species a much closer super- 

 ficial resemblance to certain North American species of the Poly- 

 phagid genus A renivaga than is shown by any of the other known 

 species of Epilampra. 



Type: c? ; Icano, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. December. 

 [Paris Museum.] 



Size rather small, form depressed for the genus. Head very 

 slightly projecting beyond the pronotum, considerably depressed; 

 interocular space nearly twice the occipital ocular depth; ocelli very 

 large. Pronotum of the type characteristic for the genus, the sur- 

 face more flattened and production caudad weaker than is usual, 

 agreeing closely with that of jorgenseni except in these respects. 

 Tegmina extending beyond apex of abdomen slightly more than 

 pronotal length, moderately broad, the median half subequal in 



114 Named in honor of Monsieur Lucien Berland, of the Paris Museum, through 

 whose kind cooperation the present collections have been put in our hands for 

 study. 



116 A detailed comparison of the type of Rhicnoda jorgenseni Rehn, a female, 

 (described from the Misiones, Argentina, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 

 277, fig. 1) and males, including the type of Epilampra stigmatiphora Rehn, 

 (described from the Misiones, Argentina, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 

 279, fig. 2) convinces us that but a single species is represented, of which the 

 sexes are widely dissimilar. The males show no features which would warrant 

 generic separation from the other species of Epilampra. The female, however, is 

 a patelliform type, evidently retaining in the adult numerous features character- 

 istic of the early stages and having tegmina alone represented by small, lateral, 

 triangular pads. As a result the species is recognized as Epilampra jorgenseni 

 (Rehn), the first species of the genus known to show wide dissimilarity in the sexes. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



width; distal margin arcuate oblique from sutural margin to the 

 well rounded apex, which is situated nearer the costal margin ; anal 

 field very elongate pyriform. Wings ample; area of costal veins 

 rather broad, opaque; ulnar vein with (seven) incomplete and (two) 

 complete branches. Abdomen strongly depressed. Supra-anal 

 plate bilobate, with apices rather sharply rounded, length two-thirds 

 distance between cerci. Cerci small, tapering distad, with apical 

 portion very slender. Subgenital plate as characteristic of genus; 

 moderately asymmetrical, lobate; styles very small, straight, simple. 

 Armament of limbs (except that, as in jorgenseni, the ventro- 

 cephalic margin of the cephalic femora is armed with one, instead 

 of the usual two, heavy distal spines), pulvilli and arolia as charact- 

 eristic of Epilampra. 



Head cream color, the occiput obscurely striate vertically with 

 buffy, with a broad interocular band of blackish mummy brown, 

 which sends a ray ventrad along the ventral margin of each ocellus. 

 Eyes mummy brown. Underparts warm buff, limbs light och- 

 raceous-buff. Pronotum cream color, rather thickly and very 

 minutely dotted with mummy brown, these dots enlarging slightly 

 mesad and forming minute longitudinal maculae on the margin of 

 the caudal production, the disk further marked with minute flecks 

 of prouts brown. All of the pronotal markings are so small that 

 it appears merely more strongly suffused mesad, without noticeable 

 picturing, the sublyrate median pattern being even more obscure 

 than in jorgenseni. Tegmina with marginal field opaque, cream 

 color, with very few punctae of mummy brown; other portions trans- 

 lucent, tinged with saccardos umber and thickly flecked with 

 mummy brown, with a few larger flecks meso-distad; humeral trunk 

 to near end of marginal field heavily suffused with mummy brown. 

 Area of dextral tegmen, concealed when at rest, bister, flecked only 

 in its inner portion. Wings with area of costal veins opaque, bister 

 with immediate margin slightly paler, beyond thiswith a few mar- 

 ginal flecks of bister; other portions transparent, tinged with bistre, 

 the veins bister. Dorsal surface of abdomen clay color, shading 

 to bister distad. 



Length of body 116 15.7-15.7, length of pronotum 4.3^4.4, width 

 of pronotum 5.6-5.8, length of tegmen 15.9-16, width of tegmen 

 5.6-5.6 mm. 



In addition to the type, a single paratypic male bearing the same 

 data, two immature males and one immature female from Cruz 

 del Eje, Cordoba, Argentina, in the Hebard Collection, are before 

 us. 



116 The type measurements are given first. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



BLATT1NAE. 



Blatta orientalis Linnaeus. 



1758. [Blatta] orientalis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, I, p. 424. [America; 

 the East; Russia; Stockholm, Sweden; Finland.] 



Tucuman, Tucuman, Argentina, 1 d\ [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 2 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Periplaneta brunnea Burmeister. 



1838. P[eriplaneta] brunnea Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, Pt. I, p. 

 503. [d\ 9 ; Chile; Demerara (= British Guiana).] 



Las Garzas, Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Argentina, 1 9 . 



PANCHLORINAE 



Panchlora thalassina Saussure and Zehntner. 



1893. Panchlora thalassina Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent -Am., Orth., 

 I, p. 93. [<?, 9 ; Guatemala; Santa Catharina, Brazil; La Plata, Argen- 

 tina. 117 ] 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, January to 

 April, 1 o 71 , 2 9. 



Bella Vista, Rio Parana, Corrientes, Argentina, 1 9 . 



Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco, Argentina, 1 cf. 



Barrancas, Banados del Rio Dulce, Santiago del Estero, Argen- 

 tina, 1 ?. . 



Troncal, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 19,1 juv. 9 . 



Las Garzas, Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Argentina, 1 9 . 



Tribonium guttulosum (Walker) 



1868. Nauphoela guttulosa Walker, Cat. Blatt, Br. Mus., p. 184. [cfi 

 Brazil.] 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, 1 9 . 



This species appears to be extremely close to T. conspurcatum 

 (Burmeister) . From Brunner 's detailed description of that species, 

 it would appear to differ in the unicolorous black antennae, and in 

 pronotum, the proportions of which are given as 4 by 5.6 millimeters. 



Length of body 19, length of pronotum 4, width of pronotum 7.1, 

 length of tegmen 15, width of tegmen 5.6 mm. 



Tribonium spectrum (Eschscholtz) 



1822. Blatta spectrum Eschscholtz, Entomographien, p. 85. [Santa Cath- 

 arina, Brazil.] 



117 We here select La Plata, Argentina, as the type locality of this species. It is 

 closely related to P. cubensis Saussure and, in the very large series of the genus be- 

 fore us, is recognizable only from material from Paraguay and northern Argentina. 

 The Santa Catharina record may, therefore, represent the same species, but we 

 are confident that that from Guatemala is based on either a misidentification or 

 material incorrectly labelled. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, 1 o". 

 On page 242 of the present paper we have compared T. conspersum 

 (Guerin and Percheron) with the present species. 



BLABERINAE. 

 Blaptica interior new species. Plate XIV, figure 1. 



This species is very closely related to B. dubia (Serville), differing 

 in the male sex in the more slender form, in the strikingly smaller 

 pronotum, with lateral portions of cephalic margins not weakly 

 refiexed and lateral margins broadly rounded, showing hardly a 

 trace of the angulation distinctly developed (though to varying 

 degrees) in dubia, and in the narrower interocular space. In ad- 

 dition the ventral surface is paler, that surface with subgneital plate 

 and sometimes the preceding segment alone solidly dark, while the 

 dark marking of the pronotal disk is truncate cephalad, ceasing 

 abruptly before the convex section above the head. 



Females of these species are very similar, those of interior being 

 less robust, with interval between the tegmina decidedly less. 



Type: d* ; Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina. [Hebard Collection, 

 Type no. 672.] 



Size rather small for the genus, very small for the Blaberinae; 

 form slender for the genus. Interocular space narrower than in 

 dubia, one-third (varying in the series to two-fifths) as wide as the 

 interocellar space. Ocelli large and prominent, each with a cir- 

 cular and similarly subchitinous spot of about half the size immedi- 

 ately ventrad. Maxillary palpi with distal joint very slightly 

 longer than fourth. Pronotum with impressed lyrate pattern of 

 disk and convex area above head as in dubia, but differing decidedly 

 in the almost perfectly oval outline, without lateral angles and 

 weakly cingulate, but not moderately refiexed, lateral portions of 

 the cephalic margin. Tegmina elongate and narrow, with margins 

 parallel for a considerable distance; anal field ample and elongate, 

 as in dubia. Supra-anal plate broadly truncate, bilobate. Sub- 

 genital plate forming an asymmetrical lobe, with two very small, 

 simple styles. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora supplied 

 with a row of closely placed, moderately elongate, spiniform hairs, 

 terminating in a single large distal spine. 118 Other ventral femoral 

 margins (excepting in many paratypes the entirely unarmed ventro- 

 caudal of the caudal femora, and in this the normal condition in the 

 species) armed with a single large distal spine, the ventro-caudal 



118 This condition is also found in dubia, but in that species frequent specimens 

 have one or more short, heavy, proximal spines and two heavy spines distad on 

 the ventro-cephalic margin of the cephalic femur. Variation in that species is 

 decided, as will possibly be found to be true for interior also. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



margins of the median and caudal femora supplied with elongate 

 hairs. Four proximal tarsal joints with large pulvilli, 119 that of the 

 metatarsus linear in large portion, running to the base; last (fifth; 

 joint with ventral surface subchitinous in a longitudinal, linear 

 area. Tarsal claws heavy, symmetrical, simple; arolium suggested 

 by a very minute chitinous convexity between their bases. 



Allotype: 9 ; Cruz del Eje, Cordoba, Argentina. [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



Very different in general appearance from male. Size larger, 

 form broader. Interocular space narrower than in dubia, though 

 much broader than in male, slightly narrower than that between 

 the somewhat less prominent ocelli. Pronotum larger, rather 

 strongly convex to the cingulate lateral margins, which meso- 

 cephalad are weakly and narrowly reflexed; margin nearly semi- 

 circular to the truncate caudal margin, the latter showing a sub- 

 obsolete convexity between the shoulders; latero-caudal angles 

 rectangulate and sharply rounded. Tegmina greatly reduced, ex- 

 tending caudad as far as (varying in the series to slightly beyond) 

 caudal margin of median segment, oblique truncate from bluntly 

 rounded apex to near base of sutural margin (often with section in 

 anal field less oblique and showing some convexity) ; unlike females 

 of dubia, separated by a very brief interval (varying to attingent in 

 the series) . Abdomen much larger and heavier in structure. Cerci 

 moniliform, very small, projecting only slightly beyond the abdo- 

 minal outline. Limbs and their armament and specialization simi- 

 lar to male, except that they aresomewhat shorter and heavier. 



Coloration of male. Head blackish liver brown, the ocelli 

 and subocellar areas, proximal antennal joint, palpi and mouth- 

 parts ochraceous-buff . Pronotum translucent ochraceous-buff ; disk 

 blackish prouts brown with flecks of ochraceous-buff mesad, 120 this 

 dark area spreading and including the shoulders and intervening 

 area caudad, becoming deep cinnamon-brown latero-caudad. Teg- 

 mina ochraceous-buff in proximal portion of anal field, all of mar- 

 ginal field and more narrowly distad on costal margin, humeral 

 trunk heavily suffused with blackish chestnut brown, this spread- 

 ing over all portions of the tegmina except those mentioned above, 

 but becoming dilute toward the sutural margin and distad. In one 

 paratype the entire anal field is pale, while in another the dark suf- 

 fusion is very weak everywhere except toward the humeral trunk. 

 Wings transparent, tinged with dresden brown in anterior field, 

 but opaque, buffy, in area of costal veins, faintly tinged with brown 



119 This and the following features we believe to be of generic rather than specific 

 value. 



120 In the series of paratypes there are individuals with disk lacking pale flecks 

 or showing one or two lateral linear flecks and a single mesal or meso-caudal fleck. 

 In the type there is an additional fleck mesad, while in other paratypes there is a 

 distinct lyrate area of this paler coloration. Intensification and recession of 

 color pattern account for these differences. 




288 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



in radiate field, veins prouts brown. Dorsal surface of abdomen 

 weakly mottled tawny olive, laterad rather broadly margined on 

 each side with pinkish buff. Underparts and limbs ochraceous-buff , 

 spines blackish becoming russet proximad. Ventral surface of 

 abdomen with each segment flecked laterad with blackish prouts 

 brown, the subgenital plate and meso-caudal portion of preceding 

 sternite entirely of this color, the preceding sternites washed weakly 

 laterad and in an obscure transverse median band with prouts brown. 



In the females the coloration is generally similar, the exposed dor- 

 sal surface of the abdomen ochraceous-buff, often tinged with 

 tawny, each segment heavily marked with blackish brown except 

 laterad and caudad, frequently with patches mesad on each side 

 and along the median line of the paler coloration, so that in such ex- 

 amples the abdomen shows five distinct longitudinal, pale, inter- 

 rupted bands. 



For purposes of comparison the measurements, in millimeters, 

 for interior and dubia are given in the following table. 



121 The pronotum is strongly asymmetricalin this specimen, one side being im- 

 perfectly developed. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



289 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of Width of 

 body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen interval 



Specimens Examined: 55; 15 males, 35 females and 5 immature 

 individuals. 



Gran Chaco, Argentina, 1 <?. 



Chaco Santa Festino, Argentina, August to October, 1911, (W. 

 H. Schladitz), 1 9 . [Hebard Cln. ]. 



Icafio, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 4 d", 3 9 . 



Averias, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, December, 



1 <?, 1 juv. d". 



Paso de Don Jose, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 

 29. 



Troncal, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 19,1 juv. cf . 



La Palisa del Bracho, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 

 December, 4 d\ 1 9 . 



Guarda Escolta, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 1 

 d\ 14 9.1 juv. 9. 



Cruz del Eje, Cordoba, Argentina, 2 & , 13 9 , allotype, paratypes, 



2 juv., 3 oothecae, [Hebard Cln., A. N. S. P., and U. S. N. M.J. 

 Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina, 1 d", type. 



Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1911, (Dr. C. C. Craft; 

 on ship), 1 d\ [U. S. N. M. ]. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Blaptica dubia (Serville) Plate XIV, figure 2. 



1839. Blabera dubia Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins. Orth., p. 78. [ 6 , Brazil ; Buenos 

 Aires, Argentina.] 



Montevideo, Uruguay, 2 9 



Rosario, Santa F6, Argentina, 2cf , 1 ootheca, [A. N. S. P. and He- 

 bard Cln.]. 



Carcaraiia, Santa Fe, Argentina, 1 cf , 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



San Nicolas, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 3 cf , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 2 cf , 1 9,2 juv., [Paris 

 Museum, A. N. S. P. and Hebard Cln.]. 



Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina, 2 cf, [Hebard -Cln.]. 



The series shows no very decided intensification or recession of 

 color pattern. The paler individuals, however, do not have the 

 pronotal maculation solidly dark; in some, paired buffy flecks occur, 

 in occasional females the face-like marking, developed in certain 

 species of Blaberus is shown, while in some males a blurred lyrate 

 pattern is developed. 



Blaberus fraternus Saussure. 



1864. Blabera fraterna Saussure Mem. l'Hist. Nat. Mex., Ill, p. 241. [cf ; 

 South America, (The Antilles, Cuba?).] 



Gran Chaco, Argentina, 2 cf . 



Colonia Florencia, Rio Tapenaga, Chaco, Argentina, 1 cf, 1 9 . 



Chaco Austral, north of Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 



2 cf. 



Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 4 cf, 3 9 . 



Rio Salado, near Icauo, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 2 cf, 1 9 . 



La Palisa del Bracho, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. 

 December, 1 cf. 



The species has previously been recorded from Argentina only 

 from Jujuy, in the province of the same name. 



Considerable color variation is shown by the series. In one male 

 and the three females, the dark pronotal marking spreads caudad, 

 covering the shoulders; in but one of these specimens do pale points 

 show mesad in this dark area. In the males the most recessive 

 specimen shows a short medio-longitudinal pale streak and latero- 

 caudad of it two large oblique flecks of the same color in this area. 

 In one male with perfectly shield-shaped pronotal marking, this 

 area is solidly dark. In all, the dark pronotal area is terminated 

 by the caudal margin of the pronotum. 



Eublaberus argentinus new species. Plate XIV, figure 8. 



This species appears to be nearest E. immacula (Saussure and 

 Zehntner), described from a female from Pernambuco, Brazil. 




1921J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



The female at hand differs from the description of that species 

 in the somewhat smaller size, with pronotum solidly suffused, leav- 

 ing only the lateral marginal portions pale and buffy, not rufescent. 



We have found that the species of Eublaberus are separable almost 

 entirely on features of coloration and color pattern. We know that 

 coloration is, as a rule, though by no means invariably, unsafe for 

 diagnostic purposes, while color pattern is often subject to decided 

 variation, particularly when marked individual recession or intensi- 

 fication occurs. Thus, in E. posticus (Erichson) and E. biolleyi (Rehn), 

 the coior pattern is decidedly affected by the latter factor, the gen- 

 eral type remaining the same. 



In argentinus we have a form showing the maximum extension 

 of the pronolal dark marking. Recessive examples will probably 

 show reduction of this marking, but we feel satisfied that the mate- 

 rial before us does not represent merely an intensive condition of 

 some other described species and we are of the opinion that the 

 pattern shown by less heavily marked individuals of argentinus will 

 exhibit distinctive features. 



Type: 9 ; Mistol Passo, near Icafio, Santiago del Estero, Argen- 

 tina. January and February. [Paris Museum.] 



Size and form, average for the genus. Head with interocular 

 space slightly narrower than that between the moderately large 

 ocelli, three-fifths as wide as that between the antennal sockets. 

 Antennae incrassate, moderately pilose. Pronotum with a distinct, 

 rounded angulation at point of greatest width meso-cephalad. Teg- 

 mina and wings fully developed, extending beyond the apex of the 

 abdomen a distance approximating the pronotal length. Supra- 

 anal plate delicate, bilobate. Subgenital plate simple, large and 

 chitinous. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora with (3 to 

 4) proximal and (1 or 2) distal heavy spines, between which is a 

 fringe of elongate hairs. Ventro-cephalic margin of median and 

 caudal femora armed with a single heavy distal spine. Ventro- 

 caudal margin of cephalic and median femora armed with two 

 heavy, closely placed distal spines. Ventro-caudal margin of med- 

 ian and caudal femora fringed with elongate hairs. Ventral margins 

 of caudal femora unarmed. Median and caudal femora with a 

 heavy, elongate genicular spine. Caudal metatarsus unarmed 

 ventrad, with a large pulvillus, rounded distad, linear and running 

 to near base of this joint; three succeeding tarsal joints with large 

 pulvilli. Tarsal claws simple, symmetrical. Arolia absent. 



Head and antennae chestnut brown, eyes prouts brown, ocelli 

 and mouth-parts ochraceous-buff. Pronotum almost solidly black- 

 ish chestnut brown, the moderately broad lateral marginal portions 

 apricot yellow. In the less intensively ^colored paratype the pro- 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



notum is chestnut brown, deepening to blackish along caudal mar- 

 gin, with flecks of the same latero-cephalad and slightly paler, ap- 

 proaching tawny, in large median portion of this dark area, which 

 runs to the cephalic margin above the head, leaving only the moder- 

 ately broad lateral marginal portions ochraceous-buff. Tegmina 

 transparent, light ochraceous-buff, humeral trunk chestnut brown 

 to slightly beyond forking of mediastine vein, the humeral vein dark- 

 ened a brief distance beyond, other veins very weak ochraceous- 

 tawny. Dorsal surface of abdomen buckthorn brown shading to dres- 

 den brown distad on each tergite, broadly margined laterad and all 

 but meso-proximal portion of supra-anal plate ochraceous-buff tinged 

 with buckthorn brown. Ventral surface chestnut brown and buffy, 

 ochraceous-tawny with buffy maculations in paratype, ventral sur- 

 face of abdomen apricot yellow and broadly bordered with chestnut 

 brown, this including all but a median fleck on the subgenital plate, 

 the other sternites very narrowly margined laterad with buffy, in 

 the paratype ochraceous-tawny, the darker lateral markings more 

 suffused and breaking laterad into buffy areas on the proximal ster- 

 nites. Limbs brussels brown, margins brown in paratype; the 

 spines darker and more reddish. 



The measurements for the two females are as follows, those of 

 the type being given first. Length of body 34.7-36.3, width of 

 interocular space 2.3-2.1, length of pronotum 10.2-10.7, width of 

 pronotum 15.3-14.8, length of tegmen 38.3-38.8, width of tegmen 

 15.2-14 mm. 



In addition to the type, a female paratype is before us, taken at 

 La Palisa del Bracho, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, 

 in December. 



CORYDI1NAE. 

 CEUTHOBIA 15 - new genus. 



This genus is erected to include the Argentinian species Melestora 

 fulvella Rehn and lepta, here described. With it, the closely allied 

 genus Ceuthobiella is compared on page 247. 



Genotype. — Ceuthobia lepta new species. 



The male sex only is known for the species included. 



Generic Description. Size minute, form elongate elliptical, slen- 

 der when compared with the allied genera. Exposed surface very 

 weakly to moderately supplied with minute erect hairs. Head with 

 interocular area not rugose, distinctly wider than interval between 

 antennal sockets. Pronotum with greatest width meso-caudad and 

 caudal margin very broadly convex; latero-caudal oblique sulci 

 moderately well defined, no trace of medio-longitudinal sulcation. 

 Tegmina with first discoidal sectors longitudinal, but those toward 

 the sutural margin oblique, veins connected by well-defined cross- 



122 From ksu0o<; and ^(ow, in allusion to the secretive habits of the species. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



veinlets. Wings with width much greater than half their length; 

 costal veins clubbed distad, ulnar vein unbranched, intercalated 

 triangle moderately large, radiate field folding fan-wise. Dorsal 

 surface of abdomen with median segment specialized mesad. Sub- 

 genital plate asymmetrical, but not as strongly so as in Ceuthobiella 

 and of a distinct general type. Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic 

 femora armed with (1 or 2) moderately heavy, elongate spines 123 

 succeeded by a row of minute spiniform hairs, terminated by two 

 slender, elongate spines, elongate in increasing ratio distad ; ventro- 

 caudal margin unarmed. Median and caudal femora with a few hairs 

 on the ventral margins, the more distal of which are replaced by spines 

 in lepta, but not in fulvella. Pulvilli absent. Moderately well-de- 

 veloped arolia present between the simple, symmetrical tarsal claws. 



Ceuthobia lepta 124 new species. Plate XIII, figures 5 and 6. 



Males of the present species are recognizable by their slender form, 

 weak pilosity of head, pronotum and tegmina, elongate tegmina 

 with numerous costal veins, armed caudal femora and specialization 

 of the subgenital plate. 



The general type of the latter feature is much as in C. fulvella 

 (Rehn), though distinctive specific difference is shown. The color- 

 ation of these two species is similar. 



Type: cf ; Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina. (E. Schulz.) [Hebard 

 Collection, Type no. 674.] 



Size very small, form very slender, surface polished and very 

 weakly supplied with minute, erect hairs. Head projecting, sur- 

 face smooth and polished, supplied with scattered, minute, erect 

 hairs; space between antennal sockets three-quarters as wide as 

 interocular space, the latter slightly over twice the occipital depth 

 of the large eyes. Ocellar areas large, their flattened surfaces form- 

 ing a sharp angle with the intervening area. Distal joint of maxil- 

 lary palpi as long as combined length of second and third joints, 

 expanding evenly to beyond median point, thence with ventral mar- 

 gin oblique to the acute apex; third joint very slightly longer than 

 fourth. Pronotum rounded symmetrically trapezoidal in form, 

 surface weakly convex, latero-caudal sulci of disk represented by 

 broad and weakly concave areas diverging cephalad much as in 

 fulvella, surface supplied with a few minute, erect, scattered hairs. 

 Tegmina delicate, . very elongate, with pilosity subobsolete, apex 

 broadly rounded; costal veins numerons (13 to 14) and weakly 

 oblique as in fulvella, anal field elongate pyriform, anal sulcus dis- 

 tinct; discoidal sectors (6) broken beyond apex of anal field, con- 

 nected by moderately well developed cross-veinlets which form 



123 In fulvella decided reduction is shown, these proximal spines being absent 

 and but one distal spine being developed. 

 m From Xsxrr) = slender. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



rectangular interspaces, the majority regular in form. Wings fully- 

 developed, (7) costal veins heavily clubbed distad, interval between 

 median and discoidal veins not as wide as greatest width between 

 median and ulnar veins, supplied with transverse veinlets, ulnar 

 vein unbranched, intercalated triangle well-developed. Median 

 segment mesad with a V-shaped rounded ridge, the apex cephalad 

 and supplied with agglutinated hairs, opposite this toward the ce- 

 phalic margin of the segment is a small tuft of agglutinated hairs 

 directed caudad. Supra-anal plate transverse, free margin broadly 

 convex, showing a slight angulation. Subgenital plate asymmetri- 

 cal, sinistral margin weakly convex and moderatey oblique to 

 slightly beyond median point, dextral margin weakly convex and 

 scarcely more strongly oblique. Sinistral style springing from a 

 slight emargination proximad on sinistral margin beneath cercus, 

 simple, cylindrical, very slender and nearly five times as long as wide. 

 Dextral style situated at apex of plate, simple and unarmed, very 

 similar to sinistral style except that it is slightly bent sinistro-caudad 

 at end of proximal third, thence tapering to the acute apex. 

 Ventro-cephalic margin of cephalic femora supplied with (1 or 2) 

 heavy proximal spines (in the latter case with spiniform hairs be- 

 ween) succeeded by a row of minute spiniform hairs, terminated by 

 two slender, elongate spines, of which the more distal is the longer; 

 ventro-caudal margin unarmed. Median femora with ventral mar- 

 gins supplied with hairs and distad with one, but no distal, slender, 

 chaetiform spine. Caudal femora with ventro-cephalic margin armed 

 distad with three, but no distal, well-developed though slender spines, 

 ventro-caudal margin armed distad with two similar spines. Geni- 

 cular spines of median and caudal femora small and very slender. 

 Caudal metatarsus slightly longer than combined length of succeeding 

 joints, pilose, with hairs of ventral surface almost spiniform, pulvilli 

 obsolete. Arolia small, but extending slightly over half distance to 

 apices of claws. 



Head buffy suffused with ochraceous-tawny, ocelli light buff, 

 eyes blackish mummy brown. Pronotum with disk dull ochraceous- 

 tawny, other portions transparent, weakly tinged with ochraceous- 

 buff as are the tegmina. Wings transparent very faintly tinged 

 with prouts brown, except between mediastine vein and costal mar- 

 gin where they are paler. Abdomen ochraceous-buff, slightly suf- 

 fused distad. Cerci ochraceous-tawny. Ventral surface and limbs 

 ochraceous-buff with a slight tawny tinge, except abdomen distad, 

 which is weakly suffused with cinnamon-brown. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 

 cf body pronotum pronotum tegmen tegmen 



Averias, Argentina, paratype 7.2 1.8 1.95 7.3 2.2 



Icafio, Argentina, paratype 7.2 1.7 6.7 2 



Cordoba, Argentina, type 8.5 125 1.7 1.95 7.8 2.3 



125 Abdomen considerably distended. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



In addition to the type, two paratypic males are at hand, one 

 from Averias, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, taken in 

 April, the other from Icafio, Rio Salado, Santiago del Estero, 

 Argentina. 



Ceuthobia fulvella (Rehn) 



1913. Melestora fulvella Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, p. 283, 

 fig. 3. [cf; Misiones, Argentina.] 



Carcarafia, Santa Fe, Argentina, 5 cf, [Hebard Cln. ]. 



The present specimens are so much smaller than the type that 

 we at first believed a distinct species to be represented. Careful 

 examination shows, however, that no feature of sufficient impor- 

 tance occurs to warrant separation. 



The specialization of the median segment of the male abdomen 

 is the same as described for C. lepta on page 294. The male sub- 

 genital plate was not originally described. It is asymmetrical, 

 with sinistral margin weakly oblique and feebly concave to beyond 

 the mesal point, supplied at end of proximal third with a minute, 

 simple, straight style, set in a socket; dextral margin almost straight, 

 produced, showing slight convexity distad and there terminating at 

 apex of plate in a large socket, in which is set the dextral style; 

 this style rounded, with a slender, elongate spine dextrad which 

 curves sinistrad and at its base sinistro-caudad another similar spine 

 of about half the length. The material here recorded agrees with 

 the type in this and all other features, except size and a very slightly 

 greater interocular width. 



Length of body 5.5-6, length of pronotum 1.3-1.3, width of 

 pronotum 1.8-1.8, length of tegmen 5.9-6.2, width of tegmen 1.85- 

 1.9 mm. 



LANTA new genus. 



This genus includes two previously unknown Argentinian species. 

 Nearest relationship is with Ceuthobia, males agreeing in the small 

 size, moderately wide and not wrinkled interocular area, compara- 

 tively large ocellar areas, general form and contour of pronotum, 

 sinistral tegmen without a diagonal channel, generally longitudinal 

 character of discoidal sectors, wings of similar general proportions 

 with radiate field folding fan-wise, absence of pulvilli and presence 

 of well developed arolia. 



It differs in the more regular tegminal venation with discoidal 

 sectors all parallel to each other but weakly oblique to the sutural 

 margin, wings with more numerous costal veins which are thickened 

 (not clubbed) distad, smaller intercalated triangle, unspecialized 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



dorsal surface of male abdomen, different character of specialization 

 of subgenital plate and more distinct limb spination. 126 



Genotype. — Lanta scotia new species. 



Generic Description. Size minute, form moderately broad, ellip- 

 tical; weakly convex surface polished, regularly but not thickly 

 clothed with silky, erect, pile. Head with occiput slightly roughened 

 and interocular area regularly and minutely pitted (from which 

 spring the minute hairs), but not decidedly and irregularly rugose 

 as in Melestora; interocular space wider than that between antennal 

 sockets. Ocelli comparatively large, flat surfaces of ocellar areas 

 forming a decided angle with plane of interocellar area. Pronotum 

 elliptical, showing very slight flattening of the curvature of the 

 latero-cephalic portions; surface convex, the lateral portions show- 

 ing marked deflection; latero-caudal sulci of disk represented by 

 broad and well defined concave areas, which diverge cephalad, the 

 intervening section evenly and weakly convex. Tegmina coriace- 

 ous, bluntly elongate elliptical, but shorter and broader than in 

 the related genera, width nearly subequal through mesal half, apex 

 broadly rounded; numerous costal veins very strongly oblique; anal 

 field elongate pyriform, anal sulcus distinct; discoidal sectors longi- 

 tudinal or nearly so, connected by moderately well-developed cross- 

 veinlets, which form regularly rectangulate interspaces. Wings 

 fully developed, exceedingly delicate; costal veins thickened except 

 near base; interval between median and discoidal veins broad, with 

 transverse veinlets; ulnar vein bifurcate; intercalated triangle small 

 but distinct; radiate field folding fan-wise. Dorsal surface of abdo- 

 men unspecialized. 



Cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic margin armed with a 

 single elongate spine, succeeded by a row of minute spiniform hairs, 

 terminated by one or two elongate spines. Other ventral femoral 

 margins, except the wholly unarmed ventro-caudal margin of the 

 cephalic femora, supplied with minute hairs but unarmed except 

 for a single elongate distal spine; median and caudal femora with 

 an elongate genicular spine. Caudal tarsus about three-quarters 

 as long as caudal tibia, succeeding joints three-quarters as long as 

 metatarsus, pilose but with ventral surfaces unspined. Pulvilli 

 absent. Arolia moderately large, extending to near apices of simple, 

 symmetrical tarsal claws. 



Lanta scotia 12 ' new species. Plate XIII, figures 7 and 8. 



This species and L. peniculiger, described on page 298, are quite 

 similar in general appearance. Known only from the male sex, 

 the diminutive individuals are of a solidly dark brown coloration, 



126 This is due to the fact that in the present genus the few heavier spines are 

 stout and the ventral femoral margins are not supplied with hairs which increase 

 n size to become slender spines distad, as is true for C. lepta here described. 



127 From okoziz = dark. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



with tegmina comparatively broad and short, broadly rounded dis- 

 tad, with venation more regular than in the forms of nearest affinity. 



Compared with peniculiger, the present species differs in the 

 larger size, slightly less delicate character of wings and portion of 

 dextral tegmen concealed when at rest, dorsal surface of abdomen 

 without hairs and distinctive type of genitalic specialization. 



Type: o 71 ; Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina. (F. Schulz.) [Hebard 

 Collection, Type no. 673.] 



In addition to the features given in the generic description, we 

 would note the following characters which appear to be of specific 

 value. Interocular space slightly wider than that between antennal 

 sockets and wider than the occipital depth of the large eyes by 

 about one-fourth. Distal joint of maxillary palpi as long as com- 

 bined length of second and third joints, expanding evenly to beyond 

 median point, thence with ventral margin oblique to the acute apex; 

 third joint very slightly longer than fourth. Costal veins of teg- 

 mina numerous (16 to 19, including mediastine vein and its branches) 

 discoidal sectors (5 to 7 in series) longitudinal, except in area be- 

 yond apex of anal field where three or four are weakly oblique. 

 Dorsal surface of abdomen without hairs. Supra-anal plate trans- 

 verse, free margin broadly and evenly convex. Paired plate be- 

 neath supra-anal plate with dextral portion developed ventrad 

 from beneath cercus in a slender, straight finger, directed meso- 

 dorsad and twice as long as the sinistral style, back of which is a 

 large plate, subchitinous in all but peripheral portion; sinistral 

 portion developed into a smaller though large chitinous lobe, which 

 tapers and curves dorsad to its acute apex. Subgenital plate asym- 

 metrical, sinistral margin weakly sinuous and very weakly oblique 

 to slightly beyond median point, with sinistral style mesad on this 

 margin, springing from a socket on the dorsal edge; dextral margin 

 more strongly oblique to just before median point, from the socketed 

 apex of the weak triangular production formed by these margins 

 springs the dextral style. Styles small, simple; the sinistral straight 

 two and one-half times as long as its basal width, tapering slightly 

 to the rounded apex; the dextral style heavier, blunter and shorter, 

 scarcely twice as long as its basal width, showing a slight curvature 

 ventrad and with dorsal surface thickly armed with very minute 

 spines. 



General coloration deep bister. Head blackish chestnut brown; 

 ocelli light buff, (type with ocelli discolored, dark) ; antennae, palpi 

 and mouthparts snuff brown. Pronotum deep bister. Tegmina 

 weakly transparent, heavily and evenly suffused with dresden 

 brown, except in portion of dextral tegmen, concealed when at rest, 

 which is transparent and very weakly suffused. Wings transparent, 

 colorless except in area of costal veins and distad in anterior field 

 where they are suffused with dresden brown. Dorsal surface of 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



abdomen cinnamon-buff, deepening to warm sepia distad, the supra- 

 anal plate of this color, the cerci snuff brown. Limbs and ventral 

 surface clay color, deepening to prouts brown distad on abdomen . 

 In some of the paratypes before us the limbs and ventral surface are 

 snuff brown, the latter becoming blackish toward the margins. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Width of Length of Width of 



In addition to the type, three paratypic males from Icano, 

 Santiago del Estero, Argentina, and one paratypic male from La 

 Palisa del Bracho, Santiago del Estero, Argentina, taken in De- 

 cember, have been examined. 



Lanta peniculiger 128 new species. Plate XIII, figures 9 and 10. 



The species is related toL. scotia, under which species a compari- 

 son is made on page 297. 



Type: d"; Las Garzas, Rio Las Garzas, Santa Fe, Argentina. 

 [Paris Museum.] 



We give the following characters, supplementing those described 

 in the generic treatment. Size smaller, structure more delicate 

 than in scotia. Space between antennal sockets three-quarters as 

 wide as interocular space, the latter wider than the occipital depth 

 of the large eyes by slightly over one-fourth. Maxillary palpi as 

 described for scotia. Tegmina with numerous (15 and 16) costal 

 veins, discoidal sectors (4 and 5) longitudinal. Dorsal surface of 

 abdomen unspecialized, but with median segment supplied with a 

 number of very fine microscopic hairs in median portion, succeeding 

 tergites with fewer similar hairs mesad. Supra-anal plate trans- 

 verse, free margin laterad straight, oblique, mesad straight, trans- 

 verse in broad section, the angles thus formed rounded. Paired 

 plate beneath supra-anal plate with dextral portion developed into 

 a large plate extending to median line, subchitinous mesad, with a 

 minute projection mesad on its ventral margin; sinistral portion 

 as in scotia, developed into a smaller though large chitinous lobe, 

 which tapers and curves dorsad to its acute apex. Subgenital plate 

 asymmetrical, sinistral margin weakly convex and weakly oblique 

 to median point, with sinistral style just before that point; dextral 

 margin more strongly convex and oblique to median point, where 

 by a sudden small offset the juncture of these margins is formed, 

 the specialized dextral style projecting from this angulation, the 



128 The brush carrier, in allusion to the brush- like dextral style. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



margins of which are subchitinous. Sinistral style simple, straight, 

 cylindrical, about four times as long as basal width, tapering to the 

 rounded apex; dextral style represented by a brush of agglutinated 

 spiniform hairs, nearly as wide as the length of the sinistral style, 

 the median length of these hairs slightly shorter than the width of 

 the brush, this brush springing from the dorsal surface of the plate 

 just within the free margin. 



General coloration deep bister. Head blackish chestnut brown; 

 ocelli light buff; proximal antennal joints, palpi and mouthparts 

 prouts brown, remaining portions of antennae buckthorn brown 

 tinged with tawny. Pronotum deep bister. Tegmina weakly 

 transparent, heavily and evenly suffused with saccardos umber, 

 except in portion of dextral tegmen concealed when at rest, which 

 is hyaline, transparent, the wing beneath showing whitish. Wings 

 transparent, almost colorless, except area of costal veins and dis- 

 tal margin of anterior field, where they are strongly suffused with 

 saccardos umber. Abdomen, underparts and limbs dresden brown, 

 the abdomen deepening to prouts brown distad. 



Length of body 6, length of pronotum 1.7, width of pronotum 2, 

 length of tegmen 5.9, width of tegmen 2.3, length of wing 5.5, width 

 of wing 3.7 mm. 



The type is unique. 



Melestora argentina (Rehn) Plate XIV, figures 9 and 10. 



1915. Latindia argentina Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, p. 276, 

 figs. 2 and 3. [cf; Misiones, Argentina.] 



Falls of the Rio Iguazu, Misiones, Argentina, 1 cT • 

 The present insect would appear to be extremely close to M . 

 fuscella Stal. Examination of the type, or material from Rio de 

 Janeiro, Brazil, is necessary before the validity of argentina, or its 

 synonymy, can be established. We have discussed the genus 

 Melestora on page 250 of the present paper. 



PERISPHAERINAE. 



Parahormetica tumulosa Brunner 



1865. P[arahormelica] tumulosa Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 385, pi. XII, 

 figs A to c'. [cf, 9 ; Brazil.] 



Villa Lutecia, near San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina, January 

 to April, 19,4 juv. 



In this adult, as well as in those recorded on page 254, the teg- 

 mina are immaculate. The present material is there further dis- 

 cussed. 



The following list shows the linear arrangement of the species 

 treated in this paper. It is furnished as an aid to the student, 

 particularly in finding the position of the new genera and species 




300 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



described, since the paper itself is divided into three sections on a 

 geographic basis. The names of the new species, described in this 

 study, are preceded by an asterisk. 



Page. 

 Anaplecta biviltata 222 



* Anaplecta xanthopeltis 222 



Anaplecta pulchella 195 



* Anaplecta maronensis 194 



*Eudromiella aglaia 255 



*Dasyblatta chopardi 257 



*Dasyblatta lhaumasia 225 



*Sciablalta poecila 196 



Supella supellectilium 226 



*Cariblalta mesembrina 258 



Neoblattella conspersa .... 198 and 260 



*Neoblattella platystylata 229 



* Neoblattella janeirae 226 



Neoblattella adspersicollis . 198 and 232 



Neoblattella puerilis 262 



*Neoblattella tapenagae 262 



*Neoblattella eudromielloides 232 



^Neoblattella berlandi 234 



Blattella germanica 264 



Liosilpha pumicala 237 



*Leuropeltis alopa 200 



Ischnoptera ignobilis 265 



*Ischnoptera carcarana 267 



* Ischnoptera argenlina 270 



Ischnoptera bilunata 272 



*Ischnoplej a litostylata 272 



*Ischnoptera saussurei 274 



*Ischnoptera icano 276 



Litoblalta brasiliensis .... 238 and 264 



Euphyllodromia liter ata 201 



* Euphyllodromia chopardi 202 



Pseudomops neglecla 278 



*Pseudischnoptera rhabdota 278 



Pseudischnoptera lineata 204 



Nyclibora holosericea 205 



Nyclibora sericea 239 and 281 



Nyctibora glabra 281 



Paratropes elegans 206 



Phoraspis flavipes 239 



*Phoraspis brachytaenia 239 



Phoraspis picta 240 



EpUampra azleca 206 



Epilampra grisea 206 



Epilampra abdomen-nigrum 206 



Epilampra maculicollis 206 



Epilampra cinerascens 281 



Epilampra heusseriana 281 



*EpUampra berlandi 283 



Epilampra verticalis 240 



Epilampra conspersa 206 



Page. 



Hedaia yersiniana 240 



*Hyporhicnoda maronensis 207 



Blatta orientalis 285 



Periplanela americana 241 



Periplanela brunnea 208 and 285 



Leucophaea maderae 241 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis 241 



Panchlora cubensis 208 and 241 



Panchlora thalassina 285 



Panchlora prasina 241 



Schizopilia fissicollis 208 



Tribonium guttulosum 285 



Tribonium conspersum 242 



Tribonium spectrum 285 



Tribonidium signaticollis 242 



*Tribonidium amplum 243 



Zetobora emarginata 209 



*Zetoborella gemmicula 211 



. Phorlioeca nimbata 212 



Petasodes mouffeti 245 



Monastria bigultata 246 



*Blaptica interior 286 



Blaptica dubia 290 



Blaberus giganteus 213 



Blaberus fraternus 290 



Eublaberus biolleyi 213 



*Eublaberus argentinus 290 



Ceuthobiella minutissima 247 



*Ceuthobia lepta 293 



Ceuthobia fulvella 295 



*Lanta scotia 296 



*Lanta peniculiger 298 



*Oulopteryx dascilloides 215 



*Oulopleryx meliponarum 247 



Latindia dohrniana 216 



Melestora argentina 250 and 299 



Specophila polybiarum 216 



Euthyrrhapha pacifica 251 



Hypercompsa cynipsoides 251 



Holocompsa nitidula 217 and 251 



Chorisoneura lata 217 



*Chorisoneura guianae 217 



Chorisoneura perlucida 251 



Chorisoneura gracilis 252 



Chorisoneura nigrifrons 252 



^Chorisoneura barticae 219 



Brachycola tuberculata 252 



Hormelica venlralis 253 



Parahormetica tumulosa . . 254 and 299 



Parahormetica bilobata 254 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



301 



Explanation of Plates IX to XV. 



d\ type. Rio Itaya, 



Rio Itaya, Peru. 



Plate IX. — Fig. 1. Anaplecla xanthopeltis new species. 



Peru. Dorsal view of wing. (X5). 

 Fig. 2. Anaplecta xanthopeltis new species. d\ type. 



Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.) 

 Fig. 3. Anaplecta maronensis new species. 9 , type. La Forestiere, French 



Guiana. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X15). 

 Fig. 4. Eudromiella aglaia new species, o", type. Carcarana, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Dorsal view. (X4). 

 Fig. 5. Eudromiella aglaia new species. d\ type. Carcarana, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 6. Dasyblatta chopardi new species, d 1 , type. Colonia Florencia, 



Chacc, Argentina. Dorsal view of distal portion of abdomen. (Much en- 

 larged). 

 Fig. 7. Dasyblatta chopardi new species, d\ type. Colonia Florencia, 



Chaco, Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Same scale as 



figure 6). 

 Fig. 8. Dasyblatta chopardi new species. d\ type. Colonia Florencia, 



Chaco, Argentina. Caudal view of subgenital plate. (Same scale as 



figure 6). 

 Fig. 9. Dasyblatta thaumasia new species, d\ type. Para, Para, Brazil. 



Dorsal view of distal portion of abdomen. (Same scale as figure 6) . 

 Fig. 10. Dasyblatta thaumasia new species. d, type. Para, Para, Brazil. 



Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 6). 

 Fig. 11. Dasyblatta thaumasia new species, d , type. Para, Para, Brazil. 



Caudal view of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 6). 

 Fig. 12. Sciablatta poecila new species, d, type. St Jean du Maroni, 



French Guiana. Dorsal view. (X4). 

 Fig. 13. Sciablatta poecila new species. d\ type. 



French Guiana. Cephalic view of head. ( X8). 

 Fig. 14. Sciablat'a poecila new species. d, type. 



French Guiana. Ventral view of subgenital plate. 

 Fig. 15. Sciablatta poecila new species. d, type. 



French Guiana. Lateral outline of style. (Greatly enlarged). 

 Fig. 16. Cariblada mesembrina new species. 9 , type. Carcarana, Santa 



Fe, Argentina. Dorsal view. (X 5). 

 Fig. 17. Neoblatlellajaneirae new species. d,type. Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, 



Brazil. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X4). 

 Fig. 18. Neoblattella janeirae new species. d\ type. Tijuca, Rio de 



Janeiro, Brazil. Caudal view of apex of subgenital plate. (Greatly en- 

 larged). 

 Fig. 19. Neoblattella janeirae new species, d, type. Tijuca, Rio de 



Janeiro, Brazil. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 20. Neoblattella conspersa (Brunner). d- Contamano, Rio Ucayali, 



Peru. Ventral \iew of subgenital plate (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 21. Neoblattella plaiystylata new species, d, type. Igarape-Assu, 



Para, Brazil. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 20). 

 Fig. 22. Neoblattella plaiystylata new species. 9 , paratype. Igarape-Assu, 



Para, Brazil. Dorsal view of distal portion of subgenital plate, showing 



armament. (Greatly enlarged). 

 Fig. 23. Neoblattella platystylala new species. 9 , paratype. Igarape-Assu, 



Para, Brazil. Caudal view of distal portion of subgenital plate, showing 



armament. (Same scale as figure 22). 



Plate X. — Fig. 1. Neoblattella platystylala new species. 9 , paratype. Igarape- 

 Assu, Para, Brazil. Cephalic view of head. (Much enlarged). 



Fig. 2. Neoblattella eudromielloides new species, d, type. Passa-Quatro, 

 Minas Geraes, Brazil. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X6). 



Fig. 3. Neoblattella eudromielloides new species. d, type. Passa-Quatro, 



St. Jean du Maroni, 



St. Jean du Maroni, 

 (Much enlarged). 

 St. Jean du Maroni, 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Minas Geraes, Brazil, Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 4. Neoblatiella eudromielloides new species, d, type. Passa-Quatro, 



Minas Geraes, Brazil. Caudal view of subgenital plate. (Greatly enlarged) . 

 Fig. 5. Neoblatiella berlandi new species, d, type. Upper Amazon Basin, 



between Peru and Bolivia. Dorsal view. (X4). 

 Fig. 6. Neoblaitella berlandi new species. d,type. Upper Amazon Basin, 



between Peru and Bolivia. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Same scale 



as figure 3). 

 Fig. 7. Neoblatiella berlandi new species. d,type. Upper Amazon Basin, 



between Peru and Bolivia. Caudal view of subgenital plate. (Same scale 



as figure 3). 

 Fig. 8. Neoblatiella tapenagae new species. 9 , type. Colonia Florencia, 



Chaco, Argentina. Dorsal view. (X3). 

 Fig. 9. Liosilpha pumicata (Stal). 9- Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 



Cephalic outline of cephalic femur. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 10. Liosilpha pumicata (Stal). 9 . Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 



Distal outline of tarsal claws and arolium. (Greatly enlarged) . 

 Fig. 11. Leuropeltis atopa new species, d, type. Gourdonville, French 



Guiana. Dorsal view. (X3). 

 Fig. 12. Leuropeltis atopa new species. d, type. Gourdonville, French 



Guiana. Cephalic outline of cephalic femur. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 13. Leuropeltis atopa new species, d, type. Gourdonville, French 



Guiana. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 14. Litoblatta brasiliensis (Brunner). d- Cordoba, Cordoba, 



Argentina. Dorsal view (X3). 

 Fig. 15. Litoblatta brasiliensis (Brunner) . d". Cordoba, Cordoba, Argen- 

 tina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 16. Litoblatta brasiliensis (Brunner). 9 . San Rafael, Mendoza, 



Argentina. Dorsal outline. (X3). 

 Fig. 17. Litoblatta brasiliensis (Brunner). 9. San Rafael, Mendoza, 



Argentina. Dorsal-caudal view of distal portion of abdomen, showing the 



manner in which the sixth tergite (A) is produced over the supra-anal 



plate (B). 129 



Plate XI. — Fig. 1. Ischnoptera carcarana new species, d , type. Carcarana, 



Santa Fe, Argentina. Dorsal outline. (X4). 

 Fig. 2. Ischnoptera carcarana new species, d, paratype. Carcarana, 



Santa Fe, Argentina. Dorsal outline of head, pronotum and tegmina, 



showing the brachypterous form. (X4). 

 Fig. 3. Ischnoptera carcarana new species, d, type. Carcarana, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 4. Ischnoptera argentina new species, d, type. San Nicolas, Buenos 



Aires, Argentina. Ventral view of supra-anal plate, showing appendages 



at bases of cerci. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 5. Ischnoptera argentina new species, d, paratype. San Nicolas, 



Buenos Aires, Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much en- 

 larged). 

 Fig. 6. Ischnoptera argentina new species. 9 , allotype. San Nicolas, 



Buenos Aires, Argentina. Dorsal view of supra-anal plate. (Much enlarged) 

 Fig. 7. Ischnoptera litostylata new species. d, type. Las Garzas, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Dorsal view of supra-anal plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 8. Ischnoptera litostylata new species. d,type. Las Garzas, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 9. Ischnoptera saussurei new species. d,type. Carcarana, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Dorsal view of supra-anal plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 10. Ischnoptera saussurei new species. d,type. Carcarana, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 



m In direct dorsal aspect, a very narrow caudal marginal portion ol the sub- 

 genital plate is alone visible. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Fig. 11. Ischnoptera icano new species, cf , type. Border of Rio Salado, 



near Icano, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. Dorsal view of pronotum. 



(X7). 

 Fig. 12. Ischnoptera icano new species, cf, type. Border of Rio Salado, 



near Icano, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. Dorsal view of supra-anal 



plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 13. Ischnoptera icano new species, cf, type. Border of Rio Salado, 



near Icano, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital 



plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 14. Pseudischnoptera lineata (Olivier), cf. St. Jean du Maroni, 



French Guiana. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 15. Pseudischnoptera rhabdota new species, cf , type. Border of Rio 



Salado, near Icano, Satiago del Estero, Argentina. Dorsal view. (X3) 

 Fig. 16. Pseudischnoptera rhabdota new species, cf , type. Border of Rio 



Salado, near Icano, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. Ventral view of 



subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 17. Pseudischnoptera rhabdota new species. 9 , paratype. Border of 



Rio Salado, near Icano, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. Dorsal outline. 

 • (X3). 



Plate XII. — Fig. 1. Epilampra berlandi new species, cf , type. Icano, San- 

 tiago del Estero, Argentina. Dorsal view. (X4). 

 Fig. 2. Epilampra berlandi new species, cf, type. Icano, Santiago del 



Estero, Argentina. Cephalic view of head. (X9). 

 Fig. 3. Hedaia yersiniana (Saussure). cf. Curityba, Parana, Brazil. 



Dorsal view 130 . (XI H). 

 Fig. 4. Hedaia yersiniana (Saussure). cf. Curityba, Parana, Brazil. 



Dorsal outline of pronotum. (X1J4)- 

 Fig. 5. Hyporhicnodi mironensis new species. La Forestiere, French 



Guiana. Dorsal view. (X2). 

 Fig. 6. Schizopilia fissicollis (Serville). cf. St. Laurent du Maroni, 



French Guiana. Dorsal outline of pronotum. (XlJ^). 

 Fig. 7. Tribonium conspersum (Guerin and Percheron). Immature 6 . 



Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Dorsal view. (2^). 

 Fig. 8. Tribonidium signaticollis (Burmeister) . cf. Curityba, Parana, 



Brazil. Dorsal view. (X3). 

 Fig. 9. Tribonidium amplum new species. <^,type. Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, 



Brazil. Dorsal view. (X3). 

 Fig. 10. Tribonidium amplum new species. 9 , allotype. Tijuca, Rio de 



Janeiro, Brazil. Dorsal outline. (X3). 

 Fig. 11. Zetobora emarginata Burmeister. cf. La Forestiere, French 



Guiana. Dorsal outline of pronotum. (X3). 

 Fig. 12. Zetobora emarginata Burmeister. 9 . La Forestiere, French 



Guiana, Dorsal outline of pronotum. (X3). 



Plate XIII. — Fig. 1. Zetoborella gemmicula new species, cf , type. St. Jean du 

 Maroni, French Guiana. Dorsal view. (X3). 



Fig. 2. Zetoborella gemmicula new species. 9 , allotype. St. Jean du 

 Maroni, French Guiana. Dorsal view of pronotum. ( X3). 



Fig. 3. Phortioeca nimbata Burmeister. cf. La Forestiere, French Guiana. 

 Dorsal view. (X2^). 



Fig. 4. Petasodes mouffeti (Kirby). Immature 9. Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, 

 Brazil. Dorsal view. (X13^)- 



Fig. 5. Ceuthobia lepta new species, cf , type. Cordoba, Cordoba, Argen- 

 tina. Dorsal view. (X6). 



Fig. 6. Ceuthobia lepta new species, cf , type. Cordoba, Cordoba, Argen- 

 tina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged) . 



130 Due to the decided declivity cephalad of the pronotum, this dorsal view of 

 the entire insect actually gives a dorsal-caudal view of the pronotum. We have 

 herefore given a directly dorsal outline of the pronotum itself in figure 4. 




Fig. 7. Lanta scotia new species, d\ type. Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina. 



Dorsal view. (X6). 

 Fig. 8. Lanta scotia new species. d\ type. Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina. 



Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 9. Lanta penicvliger new species, cf, type. Las Garzas, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 10. Lanta penicvliger new species. d\ type. Las Garzas, Santa Fe, 



Argentina. Dorsal view of the simple sinistral and remarkably specialized 



dextral style. (Greatly enlarged). 



Plate XIV. — Fig. 1. Blaptica interior new species, d", type. Cordoba, 



Cordoba, Argentina. Dorsal view. (Xl%). 

 Fig. 2. Blaptica dubia (Serville). <?. Cordoba, Cordoba, Argentina. 



Dorsal view. (Xl%). 

 Fig. 3. Eublaberus biolleyi (Rehn). 9, type. Plains of Santa Clara, 



Reventazon River, Costa Rica. Dorsal view of pronotum. (Xl^). 

 Fig. 4. Eublaberus biolleyi (Rehn). 9. Cabima, Panama. Dorsal view 



of pronotum. (XlK)- 

 Fig. 5. Eublaberus biolleyi (Rehn). d" . St. Jean du Maroni, French 



Guiana. Dorsal view of pronotum. (XlJ^)- 

 Fig. 6. Eublaberus biolleyi (Rehn). 9. Caparo, Trinidad. Dorsal view 



of pronotum. (XlH). 

 Fig. 7. Eublaberus biolleyi (Rehn). St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana. 



Dorsal view of pronotum. (XlJ^). 

 Fig. 8. Eublaberus argentinus new species. 9 , type. Mistol Passo, 



Santiago del Estero, Argentina. Dorsal view of pronotum ( X 1 Vi) ■ 

 Fig. 9. Melestoraargentina (Rehn). <?. Falls of the^Rio Iguazu, Misiones, 



Argentina. Dorsal outline of sinistral tegmen. (X5^). 

 Fig. 10. Melestoraargentina (Rehn). cf. Falls of the Rio Igazu, Misiones, 



Argentina. Dorsal outline of wing. (X5J^). 

 Fig. 11. Chorisoneura guianae new species, d\ type. Bartica, British 



Guiana. Dorsal view of the tegmen. (X5). 

 Fig. 12. Chorisoneura guianae new species, <?, type. Bartica, British 



Guiana. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 13. Chorisoneura barticae new species, d 1 , type. Bartica, British 



Guiana. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 



Pltate XV. — Fig. 1. Euphyllodromia chopardi new species, d 1 , type. Bartica 



British Guiana. Dorsal view. (X4). 

 Fig. 2. Euphyllodromia chopardi new species. d\ type. Bartica, British 



Guiana. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 3. Phoraspis brachytaenia new species. d\ type. State of Santa 



Catharina, Brazil. Dorsal view of sinistral tegmen. ( X2J^). 

 Fig. 4. Phoraspis picta (Drury). cf, topotype. Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, 



Brazil. Dorsal view of sinistral tegmen. (X2}4)- 

 Fig. 5. Oulopteryx dascilloides new species, d* , type. Pariacabo, French 



Guiana. Dorsal view. (X5). 

 Fig. 6. Oulopteryx dascilloides new species, cf , type. Pariacabo, French 



Guiana. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged). 

 Fig. 7. Oulopteryx meliponarum new species. d\ type. Fazenda do 



Sobrado, Minas Geraes, Brazil. Dorsal view. (X5). 

 Fig. 8. Oulopteryx meliponarum new species, d", type. Fazenda do 



Sobrado, Minas Geraes, Brazil. Caudal view of supra-anal plate and 



fang-like processes beneath it, within the anal chamber. (Greatly enlarged) . 

 Fig. 9. Oulopteryx meliponarum new species, d", type. Fazenda do 



Sobrado, Minas Geraes, Brazil. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Same 



scale as figure 6). 

 Fig. 10. Oulopteryx meliponarum new species. 9 , paraiype. Fazenda do 



Sobrado, Minas Geraes, Brazil. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Same 



scale as figure 6). 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE IX. 



HEBARD: SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE X. 



HEBARD: SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



HEBARD: SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



."N 



PLATE XII. 



HEBARD: SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921 



HEBARD: SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE. 






'I i' 




o 



PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 192-1. 



PLATE XIV. 



HEBARD: SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



HEBARD: SOUTH AMERICAN BLATTIDAE. 





REVISION OF W. M. GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSCA 

 OF SANTO DOMINGO. 



By Henry A. Pilsbry. 



The Tertiary beds of northern Santo Domingo were first brought 

 to scientific notice by the receipt in London of a collection of fossils 

 made by Mr. T. S.Heneken, 1 and described by J. Carriker Moore 

 and G. B. Sowerby. 2 Subsequently Mr. Heneken reported on the 

 geology and Mr. Moore on another sending of fossils. 3 The Hene- 

 ken collection also served as the basis of a paper by Mr. R. J. L. 

 Guppy, 4 describing further species, and for numerous notes in other 

 publications by the same author. 



William More Gabb, in the course of a geological reconnaissance 

 of Santo Domingo in the years 1869-1871, collected extensively 

 in and about the region covered by Mr Heneken 's work. His ob- 

 servations on the geology and descriptions of the fossils were pub- 

 lished by the American Philosophical Society, 5 and the fossils were 

 presented to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Unfortunately, Gabbwas not able to figure his species. The de- 

 scriptions are not always sufficiently full to insure their recognition 

 when encountered in other beds except by reference to the original 

 specimens. The progress of tropical American paleontology ha? 

 undoubtedly been impeded by the uncertainty attaching to many 

 of Gabb's Santo Domingan species. 



A certain number of fossils of Santo Domingo and Haiti have 

 been described or discussed by Dr. W. H. Dall, in his great work on 

 the Tertiary fauna of Florida and in the Proceedings of the U. S. 

 National Museum. Others have been published by Dr. A. P. 

 Brown and the writer in papers on fossils of the Canal Zone, Col- 

 ombia, and Haiti. 



1 Mr. Heneken 's name was spelled Heniker in the original publication. 



2 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, vol. vi, 1849. 



3 Same Journal, vol. ix, 1853. 



4 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, vol. 32, 1876, pp. 516-532. 



5 Notes on the Topography and Geology of Santo Domingo. Trans. American 

 Philosophical Society, XV, pp. 49-259. Separate copies with special title-page 

 dated 1873. The exact date of publication remains uncertain. Dr. I. Minis 

 Hays, Secretary of the Society, informs me that the records of the Publication 

 Committee were not preserved; but a proof of Gabb's map was exhibited at the 

 meeting of October 2, 1873. The paper was reviewed in the American Journal of 

 Science for March, 1874. It may be inferred that the work was not actually dis- 

 tributed until late in 1873 or early in 1874. In the absence of proof to the con- 

 trary, the date of the title-page may be accepted. 



Gabb described the new genera and illustrated their type species in : Description 

 of some new genera of Mollusca. Proc. A. N. S. Phila. for 1872, pp. 270-274, pi. 

 9-11, published Feb. 11, 1873. 



(305) 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Some years ago Mr. Charles W. Johnson and the writer under- 

 took to supplement Gabb's work by the preparation of figures of 

 his type specimens with notes on these and other specimens con- 

 tained in his collection. The work was interrupted by Mr. John- 

 son 's removal to Boston, and its completion, devolving upon the 

 senior author alone, was delayed by the pressure of other duties. 

 The paper was finally submitted to the Academy for publication 

 February 27, 1917, 6 Under existing conditions prompt publication 

 could not then be made, so that an extract containing descriptions 

 of new species was published. 7 Meantime, Miss C. J. Maury had 

 issued the text of a report on the geology and paleontology of Santo 

 Domingo, 8 anticipating the appearance of our paper by a few days. 

 Having access to a partial set of Gabb's specimens, Miss Maury, 

 with great enterprise, anticipated our revision by renaming certain 

 of the Gabb species having invalid names, and described others 

 from his collection. In now publishing our notes and figures, such 

 synonymy as was obvious in' looking over Miss Maury's work has 

 been noted, and some paragraphs which now appear superfluous 

 have been deleted; otherwise the paper is left as originally written. 9 

 When a critical comparison of the Gabb and Maury specimens can 

 be made doubtless some further cases of identity will be apparent; 

 but it is clear that each collection contains many species not in the 

 other. It is an evidence of the remarkable richness of the faunas. 



Gabb had selected a type series of his fossils. In a few cases 

 which we have noted below, his trays contained more than one 

 form, but practically all of the species described by us as new were 

 shells which Gabb had determined incorrectly, others which he had 

 set aside as duplicates; or they were selected from packages which, 

 from their condition and the dates of newspapers used as wrappings, 

 apparently had not been opened since they were packed in Santo 

 Domingo. 



6 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 82. 



7 New Mollusca of the Santo Domingan Oligocene, by H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. 

 Johnson. Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, pp. 150-202. The separate copies were 

 dated May 4, but on the reverse of title-page of the Proceedings the date is given 

 as May 5, 1917. 



8 Santo Domingo Type Sections and Fossils. Bull. American Paleontology . v, pp. 

 1 -120 March 31, 1917, pp. 121 - 251, April 20,1917. The plates appeared May 

 29, 1917. 



9 Certain recent changes in generic nomenclature might have been adopted, 

 but it seemed better to leave the latter uniform with our paper of 1917. The 

 valuable papers of C. W. Cooke, 1919, and B. Hubbard, 1920, were received 

 since this paper was completed. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



With two exceptions 10 the species enumerated in Gabb 's paper 

 are furnished with labels (names only) in his hand, under card labels 

 written by Professor Heilprin ; all of the small species were in vials, 

 the large ones loose in the trays. We found no cases of trans- 

 position of specimens, and with two exceptions 11 every species or 

 specimen mentioned by Gabb has been found, together with its 

 proper label. 



With two or three exceptions, none of the labels bore any indi- 

 cations of locality or horizon further than "Santo Domingo." 

 What little information exists of more definite character is contained 

 in Gabb 's paper, or sometimes may be inferred from his specific 

 names. The zonal relations of many of the species have been deter- 

 mined by Miss Maury. 



In a few cases the gangue indicates that certain species are from 

 the Orthaulax zone, which is apparently synchronous with the Tampa 

 Silex beds, while the remainder so far as we can judge is later, having 

 much in common with the Gatun and Bowden beds, now generally 

 considered Miocene. This was also Gabb's opinion. 



Gabb 's descriptions give evidence of haste and the use of a lens 

 of low power only. Dimensions of the shells were often omitted, 

 and when given are almost invariably inexact, as though estimated 

 rather than actually measured. There are many typographical 

 errors, due to the circumstance that the paper was printed after his 

 departure for Costa Rica. He did not see the proofs. We note 

 these things merely to account for occasional discrepancies between 

 the original descriptions and the supplementary descriptive notes 

 to be found in this revision. 



Certain species not Santo Domingan have been named incident- 

 ally in the course of this work, as follows: 



Conus maculospira n.n. for planiliratus Sowerby. Recent. 



Conus consobrinus ultimus Pils. & Johns. Pliocene, Costa Rica. 



Conus pseudomarginatus, n. n. for C. marginatus Cossm., not 

 Sowb. Martinique. 



Xancus textilis jamaicensis. Bowden, Jamaica Miocene. 



Bursa crassa bowdenensis. Bowden, Miocene. 



Cyprcea raymondrobertsi bowdenensis. Bowden, Miocene. 



Pyramidella insularum, n. n. for P. canaliculata Sowb. Recent. 



10 u The specimens of TeUina alternala and T. vunicea (?) in the collection have 

 lost their labels; it is not certain that they are Gabb 's examples, or that the former 

 is from Santo Domingo. 




308 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



Area idiodon. Wilmington, N. C. 



Pecten usehnce Pils. & Johns. Bowden, Miocene. 



PTEROPODA. 



LIMACINIDAE. 



Limacina inflata (Orbigny) Text-flg. 1. 



Planorbella imitans Gabb, Trans Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 201; Proc. A. 



N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 270, pi. 11, fig. 2 (1873). 

 Atlanta inflata Orbigny, Voy. dans l'Amer. Mcrid. v, p. 174, pi. 12, figs. 16^-19. 

 Limacina inflata (d'Orb.), Pelseneer, Challenger Reports, Zoology, xxiii, p. 



17. 



Gabb 's figure of this species is poor, giving the idea of a bilater- 



Fig. 1. Planorbella imitans Gabb, upper, profile and basal views of the type 

 (= Limacina inflata). 



ally symmetrical discoidal spiral, 

 whereas the spire is very little sunken, 

 and the umbilicus is deep. The type is 

 somewhat broken and not quite ma- 

 ture, 1 mm. in diameter. We do not 

 hesitate to refer it to the recent L. 

 inflata, for which there are many At- 

 lantic and Antillean records. 



Besides the type of Planorbella im- 

 itans, no. 2895 A. N. S. P., there are 

 two smaller examples and some frag- 

 ments. 



The term Planorbella Gabb (not 

 Haldeman) may be added to the syno- 

 nymy of Limacina. It is identical with 

 Embolus, which includes openly um- 



Fig^2. ya^Mat^aMGabb)^^ 



two views of the type. spire, and more or less of a median 



projection of the lip in the adult stage. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



309 



Vaganella undulata (Gabb) Text-flg. 2. 



Balantium undvlatum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 200. 



The curved shell, with three low 

 waves on the concave side, is char- 

 acteristic. Length 6.5, greatest di- 

 ameter 1.8 mm. 



Type no. 2892 A. N. S. P. One 

 specimen. 



Styliola sulcifera Gabb. Text-flg. 3. 



S. sulcifera Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. 

 Soc. xv, 1873, p. 200. 



This is a rather rapidly tapering 

 species, with the sulcus slightly 

 spiral. The section is not quite cir- 

 cular. The larger end is broken as 

 shown in the figure. 



Length 3.9, diameter at larger end 

 0.9, at smaller 0.3 mm. 



Type is no. 2893 A. N. S. P. 



i 



Fig. 3. Styliola sulcifera Gabb, 

 lateral view and outline of oral end. 



Diacria bisulcata Gabb. Text-flg. 4. 



Diacria bisulcata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 200. 

 The broader, smooth, mesial convexity will distinguish this species 



Fig. 4. Diacria bisulcata, Gabb, type. 



fromjthe recent D. trispinosa. The type, no. 2894 A. N. S. 

 measures, length 4.3, width 4.2, thickness 1.4 mm. 




310 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



GASTROPODA. 



TECHTIBRANCHI ATA . 

 ACTEONIDAE. 

 Acteon subtornatilis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXIII, flg. 15. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1817, p. 150. 



Acteon punctostriatus (C. B. Ad.) 



Actceon cvbensis Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 245. 

 Actaeon riomaensis Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. V, p. 11. 



Somewhat abundant. Another decidedly more slender species 

 is represented by one imperfect shell. 



Rictaxis oryza (Gabb) Plate XXIII. flg. 12. 



Actceonidea oryza Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 245; Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila. 1872, p. 273, pi. 11, figs. 8, 8a (Feb. 11, 1873). 



This species is type of Actceonidea Gabb. The sole specimen, 

 no. 3181 A. N. S. P., measures, length 6.7, diam. 2.5 mm. 



ACTEOCINIDAE. 



Tornatinidae of authors. 



Acteocina canaliculata (Say) 



Acteocina wetherilli (Lea) 



Tornatina wetherilli Lea. Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, p. 15. 

 Tornatina coixlacryma Guppy, Geol. Mag. iv, p. 500. 



Acteocina recta (Orb; 



Tornatina recta Orb., Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 246. 



Acteocina candei (Orbigny) 



All of these species were taken in some abundance. 



Fig. 5. Acteocina svbbullata P. and J. 

 Acteocina subbullata Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 5. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 150. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



311 



Retusa biforis Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 151. 



Fig. 6. 



Cylichnella bidentata (Orb.) 

 (recent) 



Fig. 7. 



Cylichnella ovum- 

 lacerti (Guppy). 



Fig. 8. 

 Retusa biforis P. & J. 



Retusa sulcata fossilis n. subsp. 



Cf. Bulla sulcata Orb., Moll. Cuba i, p. 129, pi. 4<bis, figs. 9-12. 

 Cylichna sulcata d'Orb. Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 245. 



The fossils agree in sculpture with R. sulcata but they are larger 

 and relatively narrower, three of the largest measuring : 

 Length 2.8, diam. 1.15 mm. 

 Length 2.8 diam. 1.35 mm. 

 Length 2.9, diam. 1.25 mm. 



The last two are conspicuously swollen near the base. 

 Type no. 3186 A. N. S. P. 



Cylichnella ovumlacerti (Guppy) Text-fig. 7. 



Cylichnella bidentata d'Orb., Gabb, Trans Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 246; 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 273. Not Bulla bidentata d'Orbigny. 

 Tornatina (Cylichnella) ovum-lacerti Guppy, Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 XVIII, p. 27. 



The Santo Domingan shells are cylindric-oblong, obtusely rounded 

 below, narrowly truncate at summit ; glossy, encircled by many im- 

 pressed spiral lines in the lower half. The vertex is concave, sur- 

 rounded by a rather sharp keel. Aperture somewhat racket-shaped. 

 Columella having a strong, upper spiral plait which continues to the 

 outer edge of the columellar callus, and a small, subvertical, sig- 

 moid fold below. Outer lip very thick, bevelled to the edge. 



Length 4, diam. 2.4 mm. 




312 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



This species is far more solid than C. bidentata (Orb.), and con- 

 stantly broader in a considerable series of both examined. For 

 comparison a figure is given of a specimen of C. bidentata measuring 

 length 3.7, diam. 1.9 mm., from Albatross Station 2275, off North 

 Carolina (Text-fig. 6). 



The only published figure of C. ovumlacerti is so inadequate that 

 one of Gabb's specimens is illustrated in text-fig. 7. 



Cyclichna (?) aff. Cylichnella, bidentata d' Orb., of Toula, Jahrb. K. 

 K. Geol. Reichsanst., Bd. 61, 1911, p. 510, pi. 31, fig. 25, maybe 

 the young of this species. 



The genus Cylichnella has been subordinated to Cylichna by some 

 authors, to Tornalina by others; but it appears to us gen- 

 erically distinct from both, being distinguished from Cylichna by 

 characters of the columella and from Tornatina by the wholly 

 buried spire. 



Volvula oxytata Bush 



Volvula cylindrica Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 246. (Not 

 of Carpenter, 1865, or of E. A. Smith, 1871.) 



This species was taken rather abundantly. It appears to be 



quite identical with the recent form. 



The type lot of V. cylindrica is no. 3179 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 9. Volvula cylichnoides P. and J. Fig. 10, Atys cinctorii P. and J. Fig. 

 11, Volvula paralella P.& J. Fig. 12, Atys sulculorum P. and J. Fig. 13, Volvula 

 ornata P. and J. 



Volvula ornata Pils. and Johns. Text-ng. 13. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 151. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



Volvula parallela Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 11. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila.. 1917, p. 151. 



Volvula cylichnoides Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 151. 



Cf. Retusa yaquensis Maury, which, however, has spiral sculp- 

 ture. 



SCAPHANDRIDAE. 



Atys cinctorii Pils and Johns. Text-fig. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 152. 



Atys sulculorum Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 12. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 152. 



Atys (Aliculastrum) caribaea (Orb.) 



A. caribaea Orb., Pilsbry, Man. Conch, xv, p. 274, pi. 48, fig. 12. 

 1A. riiseana Morch, Malak. Bl. xxii. p. 173. 



A few specimens agree with recent shells which the writer has 

 referred to d'Orbigny's species. Cf. also Atys gracilis Da 11, from 

 the Chipola horizon. 



AKERIDAE. 



Hamincea granosa (Sower by) 



Bulla granosa Sowerby, Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond. iv, 1849, p. 51, pi. 10, fig.10. 



This species is unusually solid for the genus, and more strongly 

 sculptured than the recent forms. 



BULLARIIDAE. 



Bullaria solida (Gmel.) 



Bulla solida Gmel., Pilsbry, Man. Conch, xv, p. 335. 



Several specimens, the largest 40.5 mm. long, 30.5 wide, appear 

 to be referable to this recent species. It has been described as 

 Bullaria sarahberlinera? Maury. 



Bullaria pauper cula (Sowerby) 



Bulla paupercula Sowb., Gabb. Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 246. 



Gabb has identified a series of specimens very similar to the re- 

 cent B. amygdalus Dillw., with the imperfectly defined species of 

 Sowerby. Without access to Sowerby 's type, the question of 

 specific identity cannot profitably be taken up. 



RINGICULIDAE. 



Ringicula semilimata Dall. 



Ringicula semilimata Dall, Proc. U. S. N. Mus. xviii. 1895, p. 24; Trans. 

 Wagner Inst. Sci. iii, pt. 6, pi. 60, fig. 24. 




314 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



Ringicula semistriata? Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 

 Ringicula dominicana Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. v, p. 21. 



225. 



Minute Ringiculas, from 1.3 to 1.9 mm. long, are abundant in 

 the Santo Domingo material. In shape and sculpture they show 

 a good deal of diversity — forms like R. semilimata, R. guppyi, and 

 others; there maybe three or four species, as species go in this genus. 

 Without more extended study than we have time for, exact identi- 

 fications cannot be made. R. hypograpta Brn. & Pils., from the 

 Gatun formation, is another similar, but slightly larger, form. 



NUCLEOBRANCHIATA. 



ATLANTIDAE. 



Atlanta rotundata Gabb. Text-fig. 15. 



Atlanta rotundata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 201. 



The shell is rather extensively broken. It consists of 5| whorls 

 the first 4 rather closely wound, with sculpture of four spiral threads 

 on the visible part of the penult whorl. The last whorl shows very 

 minute spiral striation under strong magnification, and there is an 

 inconspicuous groove on each side of the periphery, which shows no 

 trace of a keel. If present it must have been membranous. The 

 diameter, as broken, is 2.5 mm. 



Fig. 14. Atlanta cordiformis Gabb. Fig. 15. Atlanta rotundata Gabb. 



The rounded whorl, without peripheral keel, is similar to that 

 of Oxy gyrus, but the embryonic shell is that of Atlanta. It may 

 form a subgenus of Atlanta to be called Atlantidea. Atlanta souleyeti 

 Smith appears to belong to the same group. It differs from rotun- 

 data by the more prominent spire. In the figure of the ventral face 

 (fig. 15, above) the spire is concealed behind the lip. 



Type no. 2891 A. N. S. P. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Atlanta cordiformis Gabb. Text-fig. 14. 



Atlanta cordiformis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 201. 



A very minute species, composed of A\ whorls, the last carinate 

 and bearing the usual peripheral lamina, which is mainly broken 

 away. The aperture is cordiform, its inner edge in contact with 

 the preceding whorl, not supported on the peripheral lamina. This 

 may be a feature of immaturity. It is a much smaller shell than 

 A. peronii having the same number of whorls. 



Diameter 1.5, greatest width of aperture 0.55 mm. 



Type and two other specimens are no. 2896 A. N S. P. 



Atlanta peronii Leseuer. 



Two small specimens, the largest 3.7 mm. in diameter. It is evi- 

 dently adult, somewhat over half a whorl being in contact with the 

 peripheral lamina only. On account of its small size, the reference 

 to A. peronii is made with some doubt, yet in other characters we 

 find no material difference. 



PROSOBRANCHIATA. 

 TEREBRIDAE. 



The larger Terebras of Santo Domingo are in some confusion, 

 owing chiefly to the absense of figures of the types of three species 

 described by Sowerby. Guppy 13 figured "T. sulcifera Sowerby, " 

 from the Heneken collection, but as he united sulcifera, inequalis 

 and bipartita of Sowerby, we do not know definitely which was fig- 

 ured, nor whether his shell was from the original or the second 

 Heneken collection. The T. bipartita of Dall 14 appears to us to be 

 a different species from that of Sowerby. 



Gabb 's identifications were apparently erroneous. His T. inae- 

 qualis is T. haitensis of Dall, 15 and his bipartita is the form we refer 

 to inaequalis Sowerby. T. robusta Hinds, of Gabb, is T . gabbiDoM, 



13 Quarterly Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. 32. pi. 29, fig.8. 



14 Terebra (Acus) bipartita Sowerby, Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xviii, p. 38, 

 with vars. spinifera, oligomitra, and cirrus, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, pi. 59, figs. 13, 

 28, 29. 



15 Terebra (Hastula) haitensis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xviii, p. 35. Terebra 

 (Oxymeris) bipartita, etc., Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, pi. 59, fig. 30; Potrero, 

 Rio Anima, Santo Domingo. 



16 Terebra gabbi Dall, Proc. U. S. N. M. xviii, p. 34; Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, pi. 59, 

 fig. 31; Portrero, Rio Anima. T. robusta Hinds, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. 

 Soc. xv, p. 224. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



a form which needs comparison withT 7 . sulcifera Sowb. There is a 

 considerable amount of material in the collection, but as Gabb 

 described no new species in this group, we will not enter into the 

 subject further. No revision of any value can be made until 

 Sowerby's types are figured and more fully described. 



In addition to the species named above, Terebra amitra Dall 17 has 

 been described from the Potrero, Rio Amina. 



A very large species of Terebra, distinct from all of the above, is 

 represented by one broken and much worn specimen no. 2972. It 

 has slightly over 4 whorls, with a length of 85.5, diam. 26 mm. 

 There are two raised bands around the posterior part of the whorls. 



Terebra gatunensis Toula. 



Terebra (Oxymeria) gatunensis Toula, Jahrb. K.-K. Geol. Reichsanst., vol. 



58, 1909, p. 705, pi. 25, fig. 14. 

 Terebra gatunensis Toula, Brown and Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1911, 



p. 339, pi. 22, fig. 2. 



An abundant species in the Santo Domingo beds. Gabb referred 

 the specimens to T. dislocata. About half of them have spiral lines 

 upon the superior band, as in T. wolfgangi Toula, but there are more 

 spiral cords below the band than in typical wolfgangi. 



Terebra dislocata Say. 



The series referred to this recent species is highly variable, and 

 a further revision may eventually be made. 



There is also a series of small specimens possibly related specific- 

 ally to T. protexta Conr. 



Terebra baculiformis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXII, figs. 5, 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 152. 



Terebra bitia Pils. and. Johns. Plate XXII, fig. 1, 2. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 152. 



TURRITIDAE. 



Turris albida (Perry) 



Pleurotoma albida Perry, Conchology, 1811, pi. 32, fig. 4. 

 Pleurotoma haitensis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 50, 

 Pleurotoma barretti Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc., xxii, 1866, p. 290, pi. 17, fig. 6. 

 Turris (Surcula) virgo Lam. Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 206. 

 Turris albida Perry, Dall, Bull. 90, U. S. Nat. Mus., p. 38. 



This well-known species is abundant in the Santo Domingan 



collection no. 2942. 



17 Terebra (Acus) amitra Dall, Proc. U. S. N. Mus. xviii, p. 39. Terebra (Oxy- 

 meris) amitra Dall. Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, pi. 59, fig. 19. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Turns rara Gabb. Plate XVII. fig. 1. 



Turris (Surcula) rara Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 207. 



This is represented by one imperfect specimen. The whorls are 

 fiat, sculptured with spiral raised lines, about fifteen between su- 

 tures on the penult whorl. There are crowded, sharp and irregular, 

 axial striae. The upper whorls have a slight median angle. The 

 slit-fasciole is not distinctly differentiated on the last two to two- 

 and-a-half whorls, but above that it is slightly prominent and weakly 

 nodose. 



Length (broken at both ends) 42.5, diam. 16 mm 



Type no. 2941 A. N. S. P. 



Surcula jacquensis (Sowerby) Plate XXII, fig. 21, 22. 



Pleurotoma jacquensis Sowerby. Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 51. 



Considered by Gabb to be a synonym of Drillia henekeni, but it is 

 a distinct species of Surcula. The last whorl has nine or ten large 

 axial ribs which are crossed on the whorls of the spire by six spiral 

 cords, the upper one sometimes accompanied by one or two threads. 

 On the last whorl these cords and threads number about twenty-five, 

 and in many specimens alternate in size, especially towards the 

 anterior end. There is a spiral raised line just below the suture, 

 and the anal fasciole has weak growth-lines or is smooth. 



Length 67.3, diam. 26 mm. 



Type no. 2939 A. N. S. P. 



Surcula longicaudata (Gabb) Plate XVII, fig. 2. 



Turris {Surcula) longicaudata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 208. 



This species resembles Drillia consors somewhat in form and sculp- 

 ture, but has the generic characters of Surcula. The two apical 

 whorls are smooth, remaining whorls of the spire with large, rounded 

 slightly protractive ribs, which are crossed by six acute, spiral 

 threads, which are a little widened where they cross the ribs. Be- 

 low the suture, and extending to the angle of the anal fasciole, there 

 is a series of short, slightly retractive riblets. The last whorl is 

 evenly reticulated with axial and spiral ridges, tubercular at their 

 intersections. The interstices are minutely papillose. 



Length 26, diam. 7.3 mm.; whorls 10. 



Type no. 2938 A. N. S. P. 



Surcula humerosa (Gabb) Plate XVII, figs. 4. 5,. 



Turris (Surcula) humerosa Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv. 1873, p. 208. 



A variable species represented by three specimens, fig. 4 represent- 

 ing the intermediate form. One extreme approaches very close 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



to Pleurotoma servata Conr., from the Vicksburg Oligocene. The 

 chief difference is the greater sinuosity of the growth lines of the 

 body whorl, which run backward both above and below the convex 

 portion of the whorl to near the suture; also in having a more pro- 

 minent angle at the periphery. 



Length of specimen figured 20.5 mm.; a larger specimen, fig. 5, in 

 which the spire is broken, measures 24.5 mm. Another example 

 has the nodes partially obsolete on the last whorl. 



Type no. 2940 A. N. S. P. (fig. 4), 



Drillia fusiformis (Gabb) Plate XVII, flg. 8. 



Defrancia fusiformis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 209. 



Two apical whorls are smooth, the rest having large, rounded, ax- 

 ial ribs crossed by four keel-like ridges on the whorls of the spire, 

 and about twenty on the last whorl, the intervals densely striated 

 spirally. The sinus is deep and strongly contracted in front when 

 the lip is perfect. 



Length 36, diam. 11.5 mm.; 12 whorls. 



The shell is variable in the length of the anterior canal, but the 

 extremes are connected in the series before us. 



Type no. 2937 A. N. S. P. 



Drillia henekeni (Sowerby) Plate XVII , flg. 3. 



Pleurotoma henikeri Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 50, pi. 10, fig. 6. 

 Turris (Surcula) henekeni Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 207. 

 Not Drillia henekeni (Sowerby), Cossmann, Journ. de Conchyl., lxi, 1913, pi. 

 3, figs. 10, 11. 



This shell is well shown in Sowerby 's figure. There are many 

 specimens in the Gabb collection, the largest 69 mm. long, 18 wide. 

 No. 2936. 



Drillia sororcula Pils. and Johns. Plate XVII, flg. 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 153. 



Drillia subgibbosa Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 14. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 153. 



Drillia elocata Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 153. 

 Drillia Winchesters n. sp. Plate XVI, figs. 7, 8. 



Very similar to D. elocata, but it is more slender with a longer 

 anterior canal and a deeper posterior sinus, the anal fasciole and 

 the spaces between the spiral ridges being distinctly striate spirally, 

 in each interval about 6 striae. There are seven broad, rounded 

 axial folds on the penult whorl and on the last, weakening on the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



anal fasciole. On the face of the last whorl there are 18 narrow, 

 high spiral ridges, a smaller cord above the upper one and a strong, 

 acute cord below the suture. The outer lip is smooth within; inner 

 lip a little raised. The anal sinus is deep, rounded posteriorly, con- 

 tracted a little anteriorly. 



Length (the early whorls lost) 26.5, diam. 8.3 mm.; 6^ whorls 

 remaining. 



Type no. 3980 A. N. S. P. 



This species was at first considered a slender form of D. elocata, 

 but it is clearly distinct. Named for Miss Helen Winchester, who 

 has illustrated this paper. 



Drillia consors (Sowerby) Plate, XVI, fig. 3. 



Turns (Drillia) militaris Hinds, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873,p.207, 



(not of Hinds, Proc. Zool Soc. 1843; Reeve, Conch. Icon, No. 53.). 

 Pleurotoma consors Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 50; Guppy. Q. J. 

 Geol. Soc. 1876, p. 527, pi. 28, fig.7. 



It seems strange that in the absence of specimens of D. militaris, 

 Gabb referred D. consors to that recent species. 



A specimen of D. consors, 41.6 mm. long, 12 wide, has 23 axial ribs 

 on the last whorl, and about 18 spiral cords. A strong presutural 

 keel revolves above the anal fasciole. 



It is an abundant shell. No. 2935. 



Drillia macilenta rectaxis n. subsp. Plate XVI, figs, l, 2. 



Cf. Drillia alesidola Dall, var. macilenta Dall, Rep. Blake Gastrop., in Bull. Mus . 

 Comp. Zool. xviii, 1889, p. 85, pi. 36, fig. 1. 



Judging by the description and figure, this is very near D. ales- 

 idota macilenta Dall, but it differs by the columellar lip, which is 

 straight to the base, and by the narrower aperture. 



Length 44, diam. 10.5 mm. 



Type no. 2934 A. N. S. P.; 17 other specimens. 



Drillia gatunensis alia o. subsp. Plate XVII, fig. 7. 



Closely related to D. gatunensis Toula, but it differs by having the 

 spiral grooves simple throughout, not occupied by minor spirals on 

 the base; the vertical ribs do not retract strongly above the shoulder 

 as they do in D. gatunensis, in which the growth lines are much more 

 deeply sinuated at the anal fasciole. 



Length 31, diam. 10.5 mm. 



Length 41 mm. 



Type no. 2919 A. N. S. P. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Drillia venusta (Sowerby) Plate XVII, fig. 14. 



Pleurotoma venusta Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 50, pi. 10, fig. 6. 



This species has been well figured by Sowerby and is represented 

 by many examples in the Gabb collection (no. 2931). It has no 

 direct relationship with D. jamaicensis Guppy, which has been 

 united with it (Proc. U. S. N. Mus. vol. 19, 1896, p. 305). They 

 are conspicuously diverse in sculpture, form and size, in large series 

 of both we have examined. D. venusta attains a length of over 45 

 mm., while 19 mm. is about the maximum size of jamaicensis. 



Drillia jamaicensis (Guppy) 



Pleurotoma jamaicensis Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc. xxii, 1866, p. 290, pi. 16, fig. 6. 

 Drillia ebenina Dall, Trans. Wagn. Free Inst. Sci. iii, pt. 1, 1890, p. 33, pi. 

 2, fig. 8. 



Dr. Dall says of his D. ebenina, "Miocene of Santo Domingo 

 (Gabb) ; Pliocene of the Caloosahatchie beds. Recent on the shores 

 of the Gulf of Mexico from Florida to Vera Cruz." And after the 

 description, "This fine species was first found living in shallow water 

 on the Florida Keys by H. Hemphill. I find specimens of it to- 

 gether with several other species confused together under the name 

 of jamaicense Guppy in the Gabb collection at Philadelphia." 

 Some error is involved in these statements, as there is no such shell 

 in the Gabb collection, and Gabb makes no reference to "jamai- 

 censis" in his work. There are specimens of Pleurotoma jamaicense 

 Guppy, from Jamaica, in the collection of the Academy, obtained 

 from Mr. Vendryes and from other sources. These agree well 

 with Dr. DalPs description and figure of D. ebenina, and with speci- 

 mens from the Caloosahatchie Pliocene. 



While this species may occur in Santo Domingo, we have at 

 present no evidence that it does. 



Drillia squamosa (Gabb) Plate XVI, figs. 4, 5. 



T. {Drillia) squamosa Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 208. 

 Pleurotoma squamosa Gabb, Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc. 1876, p. 527, pi. 29, fig. 7. 



The whorls bear stout oblong, peripheral nodes, about 9 on the 

 penult, each over-ridden by an acute protractive raised line which 

 is a former free lip-edge. There is a strong varix a short distance 

 behind the lip. The whole surface has a fine sculpture of irregular, 

 interrupted, crimped spiral threads, the intervals densely and much 

 more minutely crossed by raised growth striae. The outer lip is 

 broken in all of the specimen. 



Length 56.5, diam. 23 mm., with 8 whorls remaining, the early 

 ones lost. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Length 59. diam. 22.3 mm., with 9| whorls remaining (type). 



Type no. 2922 A. N. S. P. 



A paratype is figured, since the type, while larger, has the aper- 

 ture more broken. The dimensions given by Gabb were merely 

 approximate. He seems rarely to have actually measured his speci- 

 mens. 



Drillia callistura PiL. and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 12. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 154. 



Drillia ischnatracta Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 15. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 154. 



Drillia scala Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI, figs 16, 17. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 155. 



Drillia hexapleura Pils. and Johns. Plate XVIII, flg. 1. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 155. 



Drillia mimula Pils and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 13. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 155. 



Drillia esculenta Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 18. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 156. 



Drillia orthopleura Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 19. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 156. 



Drillia callistopleura Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI, flg. 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 157. 



Drillia lissotropis dorsuosa Pils. and Johns. Plate XVIII, flg. 5. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 157. 

 Type no. 2959 A. N. S. P. 



Drillia foveolata Pils. and Johns. Plate XVI. flg. 20. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 157. 



Drillia parkeri (Gabb) Plate XVI, flg. 21. 



T. (Drillia) parkeri Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 207. 



A much lengthened, fusiform shell, with plain, subacute axial ribs, 

 and protractive growth-lines, which are strongly arcuate at the pos- 

 terior part. Eleven ribs are on the penult whorl. 2\ apical whorls are 

 smooth and convex. There is no spiral striation except towards the 

 end of the anterior part. The aperture is broken in both examples. 



Length 26.8, greatest diam. 7 mm., 11| whorls. 



Type and another specimen are no. 2924 A. N. S. P. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Mangilia dominicensis (Gabb) Plate XXXV, flg.l. 



T. (Bela) dominicensis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 208. 



The type specimen has about 13 axial ribs on the last whorl. 

 Under sufficient magnification it shows close spiral lines of granules, 

 every fourth line slightly larger. On the spire the whorls are strong- 

 ly angular in the middle, but this angle weakens a good deal on the 

 last whorl. 



Length 5.5, diam. 1.75 mm., with 8£ whorls, having lost one or 

 two. 



A young specimen in the lot shows 2| convex whorls forming the 

 conic embryonic shell; these seem to be microscopically punctate. 

 They are followed by | of a whorl (nepionic) which is closely sculp- 

 tured with protractive riblets. 



Cythara heptagona (Gabb) Plate XVII, flg. 9. 



Mangelia heptagona Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 211, 

 Cythara terminula Dall, Trans Wagner Free Inst. Sci.III, pt. 1, 1889 p. 38, 

 PL 2, fig. 5. 



After \\ rounded apical whorls, there is a half whorl having num- 

 erous ribs. On subsequent whorls there are seven narrow, acute 

 axial ribs, continuous from whorl to whorl. Fine, but clearly en- 

 graved spiral lines run over ribs and the broad concave valleys. 

 The outer lip has a longitudinal callus inside below the posterior 

 sinus. 



Length 15, diam. 6.5 mm., 8 whorls. 



The type and another specimen are no. 2915 A. N. S. P. 



Specimens from the Pliocene of the Caloosahatchie River and 

 Shell Creek seem to be specifically identical. They have 7, 8 or 9 

 longitudinal ribs. 



Cythara polygona (Gabb) Plate XVII, fig. 10. 



Mangelia polygona Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 211. 



The first 2 whorls are convex and smooth, the following half whorl 

 multicostate. Following whorls are subangular below the middle, 

 the angulation decreasing gradually to the penult, which is rounded. 

 Last whorl has 15 narrow axial ribs. Spiral striation is fine and close. 



Length 11, diam. 4.4 mm., 7| whorls (type, no. 2916 A. N. S. P.). 



Other specimens of the type lot show varying numbers of ribs, 

 from 11 to 18 on the last whorl. When numerous, the ribs are not 

 continuous from whorl to whorl throughout. Another specimen 

 is labelled Cibao Valley. 



C. gibba Guppy, from the Oligocene of Jamaica (Proc. U. S. Nat. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Mus., XIX, 1896, p. 306, pi. 27, fig. 9.), seems to resemble closely the 

 young of this species. 



Cythara elongata (Gabb) Plate XVII I, fig. 6. 



Mangelia elongata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 211; Journ. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 2 Ser., viii, 1881, p. 351, pi. 46, fig. 31, 



This species has 6 ribs, continuous from whorl to whorl. There 

 is a group of faint spiral striae in the region of the anal fasciole, but 

 none elsewhere on the last whorl. Gabb's figure is bad, the last 

 whorl being represented as far too convex. 



Length 7, diam. 2.3 mm. 



The single specimen is no. 2917 A. N. S. P. 



Cythara elevata (Gabb) Plate XVIII. fig. 3. 



Mangelia elevata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 211. 



This small species has 6| whorls, of which the first 3 comprise the 

 embryonic shell. These whorls are smooth and convex until the 

 last half-whorl, which has close, fine backwardly arched riblets. 

 Subsequent whorls have slightly protractive rounded ribs, eleven 

 on the penult whorl, rather high, and compressed below the sutures; 

 in the lower half of each whorl crossed by three spiral threads, in 

 the intervals of which there are about three very low spirals. On 

 the last whorl there are about 20 major spirals; they are closer anter- 

 iorly, where there are fewer of the low minor spirals, there being 

 four in the upper intervals, down to one in the lower. The aperture 

 is of nearly the same width throughout. Anal sinus rounded. 



Length 6.3, diam. 2.5 mm. ; 7 whorls. 



Type is no. 3224 A. N. S. P. A single specimen. 



Clathurella paupercula (Gabb) Plate XVIII, fig. 4. 



Defrancia paupercula Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 209. 



The sculpture is of close, small vertical folds which curve back- 

 ward close below the suture, crossed by numerous spiral cords, 7 

 on the penult whorl below the fasciole, one cord above it. The 

 anal sinus is oblique and moderately deep. Lip arches forward, 

 and is strengthened by a rather strong, rounded varix. 



Length 8.5, diam. 3.3 mm., about 4| whorls remain. 



Type no. 2918 A. N.S. P. 



Clathurella gracilis (Gabb) Plate XVI, fig. 10, 11, 



Defrancia gracilis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 209. 



On the penult whorl there are sixteen axial ribs, crossed by five 

 or six narrow spiral cords; on the last whorl about eighteen narrow, 

 spiral cords, which are slightly enlarged where they cross the ribs 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



and widely spaced in the peripheral region and above. Between 

 them are many minute spirals and rather sharp axial striae (Plate 

 XVI, fig. 11). 



Length 28.5, diam. 7.5 mm., aperture 12.5 mm. long; 10 whorls 

 (not 11 as stated by Gabb). 



The type is no. 2914 A. N. S. P. 



Clathurella arnica Pils. and Johns. Plate XVII, flg. 13. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 158. 



Glyphostoma dentiferum (Gabb) Plate XVII. flg. 15. 



Glyphostoma dentifera Gabb, Proc. A., N. Sci. 1872, p. 971 [=271], pi. 11 



fig. 4. (Feb. 11, 1873). Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 210. 

 Clathurella (Glyphostoma) dentifera (Hinds), Cossmann, Journ. de Conchyl. 

 xi, 1913, p. 31, pi. 2, figs. 15-17,with var. martinicensis Cossm., figs 18-20. 



Gabb's figure is not very good. The whorls of the spire have 

 stout, short ribs or nodes at the periphery. On the penult whorl 

 they become smaller and bifurcate below the shoulder, and the 

 last whorl has numerous narrow ribs, part of them uniting by pairs 

 at the shoulder. In the series of 9 individuals, there is very great 

 variation in size and shape. It is possible that with further large 

 series, an assortment into several species would be practicable, 

 though this seems unlikely. The smallest one having a complete 

 adult aperture is 14.5 mm. long, of 9 whorls. Others measure: 



Length 32.4, diam. 13 mm.; 9| whorls (type). 



Length 31 (estimated), diam. 10 mm. 



Length 26.4, diam. 10 mm.; 10^ whorls. 



This is type of the genus Glyphostoma. It is certainly distinct 

 from the recent Clavatula dentifera Hinds, but if that species is a 

 Glyphostoma, as seems likely, the name dentiferum Gabb will have 

 to be changed. Perhaps martinicensis Cossmann will be available; 

 but the figures are imperfect and I am not sure that the forms are 

 specifically identical. 



Clavatula labiata Gabb. Plate XVII, figs. 11, 12. 



Clavatula labiata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. xv. 1873, p. 209. Guppy, 

 Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. 1876, p. 527, pi. 28, fig. 3. 



This species has a mamillar embryonic shell of If whorls, the 

 first rounded and very bulbous, though small, the last third of the 

 last embryonic whorl becoming angular in the middle. After that 

 the neanic sculpture appears abruptly, strong, protractive peripheral 

 nodes crossed by fine, sharp, spiral threads. On the last whorl the 

 spirals are hardly noticeable except near the base. The crenula- 

 tions within the ©uter lip are short and sharp. 




1921 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



325 



Length 20.5, diam. 9.9 mm. 



The type is the largest of six specimens catalogued under no. 2928 

 A. N. S. P. 



Scobinella magnifica (Gabb) Plate XVII, flg. 16. 



Cordiera magnifica Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 210. 



This beautiful species is much larger and more slender than S. 

 caelata Conrad, of the Vicksburg Oligocene, which it resembles in 

 sculpture. The columella has four plaits, which diminish downward 

 from the upper one, as in Mitra. 



Length 70.5, diam. 16.4, length of aperture 34.7 mm.; 12 whorls, 

 those of the embryonic shell being lost. 



Type is no. 2926 A. N. S. P. 



A Scobinella has been described from Mindi, Canal Zone, under 

 the name Euchilodon morierei Laville MS., by M. Cossmann. 18 It 

 has a shorter anterior canal than either of the Santo Domingan 

 species, and differs in some details of sculpture, but it evidently 

 stands close to-S. tristis. These species cannot belong to the genus 

 Eucheilodon, which differs conspicuously by having a numerous series 

 of ten or twelve short subequal transverse folds on the collumella, 

 somewhat as in some Columbellas. In Scobinella the structure is 

 like Mitra. 



Scobinella tristis Pils. & Johns. PL XVII, fl^s. 17, 18. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 158. 



Borsonia (Paraborsonia) varicosa (Sowerby) Plate XVII, figs. 19, 20, 21. 

 Mitra varicosa Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 46. 

 Cordiera varicosa Sby., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv. p. 210. 



A handsome, very elaborately sculptured species. The anal 

 fasciole forms a strongly elevated band at the shoulder. This band 

 is bilirate, the two cords tuberculate, the tuberles being connected 

 across the interval. Below the shoulder there is a close sculpture 

 of larger alternating with smaller spiral cords and threads crossed 

 by close but very much interrupted axial threads, the intersections 

 graniferous. Near the anterior end the axial sculpture disappears. 

 Above the shoulder there are crowded, granose spirals. The rather 

 small anal sinus is continued inward as a furrow. Below it are 

 many sharp lirae within the lip. The columella has two strong 

 plaits, the upper one larger and flat-topped. The lower plait is 

 about midway between the ends of the inner margin. In half- 

 grown individuals there is a third distinct plait, and in one the weak 



18 Journ. de Conchyl., LXI, 1913, p. 34, pi. 3, figs. 6, 7. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



trace of a fourth may be seen. A complete shell should have about 

 9 whorls. 



The embryonic shell consists of 1| smooth convex whorls, the 

 summit a little obtuse. 



Length 24, diam. 9.1, length of aperture 13 mm. 



This species differs from Borsonia, as defined byM. Cossmann, 

 by the large upper plait high on the columella, and the sinus at the 

 shoulder, terminating an elevated anal fasciole; the sculpture other- 

 wise much as in Scobinella. We propose for it the new subgenus 

 Paraborsonia. 



Rouaultia has the sinus in the same situation, but it differs widely 

 in other characters. 



Borsonia recurvirostris Gabb. Plate XV1I1, flg. 2. 



Borsonia recurvirostris Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 210. 



There are fourteen nodes on the periphery of the last whorl, below 

 which are numerous, strongly unequal spiral cords and threads. On 

 the whorls of the spire only three spirals are visible,, the upper one 

 being peripheral. Between the concave anal fasciole and the suture 

 there is a prominent spiral ridge. The single columellar plait is 

 strong and but little oblique. 



Length 9.6, diam. 3.9 mm.; 8| whorls. 



It probably belongs to the subgenus Borsonella Dall, though the 

 sculpture is rather diverse. 



The type is no. 2912 A. N. S. P. 



CONIDAE. 



Conus haytensis Sowerby. Plate XIX, flg. 1. 



Conus haytensis Sowb., Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vi. 1849, p. 44. 



Conus haitensis Sowb.,Gabb,Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv,1872,p. 231 (in part). 



The largest species of the genus in the Santo Domingan formation * 

 The spire is conspicuously striated spirally; also the anterior part 

 of the last whorl. These striae are not granulous. The base is 

 less contracted than in C. domingensis. 



Length 107, diam. 65 mm. (Fig. 1). 



Length 91, diam. 55 mm. 



Length 85, diam. 58 mm. 



In some specimens the spire is very low or almost flat except for 

 a central mucro. 



Length 61.5, diam. 44 mm. 



Length 54, diam. 32.5 mm. 



I 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Conus haytensis politispira n. subsp. Plate XIX, flg. 5. 



Spiral striae on the spire are very faint or wanting, the surface 

 being somewhat polished. It does not attain so large a size as the 

 typical form. 



Length 66, diam. 35 mm. 



Type no. 2565 A. N. S. P. 



Conus domingensis Sowerby. Plate XIX, flg. 7. 



Conies domingensis Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 45. 



This was included by Gabb in C. haytensis, but it may be distin- 

 guished by the pyriform contour, distinctly contracted near the 

 anterior end, and the usually more acute spire. Four or five of the 

 upper whorls are conspicuously nodose. The spirals of the anterior 

 half are more or less granulous. On comparing a good series of dif- 

 ferent ages with C. symmetricus we consider them quite distinct spe- 

 cies. 



Length 89.5, diam. 49 mm. 



While abundant, it was not taken in such copious quantity as C. 

 haytensis. 



Conus recognitus Guppy. Plate XIX, flg. 2. 



Conus solidus Sowerby, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xv, 1849, p. 45. Guppy, Q. J. 



Geol. Soc. xxii, 1866, pi. 16, fig. 1. Not C. solidus Sowb., Thes. Conch. 



1841, p. 580. 

 Conus pyriformis Reeve, Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv. 1872, p. 229. Not 



of Reeve, Conch. Icon. fig. 70. 

 Conus recognitus Guppy, Proc. Sci. Asso. Trinidad, 1867, p. 171; Geol. Mag. 



1874, p. 409; Q. J. Geol. Soc. 1876, p. 527. 



This species is undoubtedly close to the recent C. pyriformis Reeve 

 from the west coast of Central America, which is probably a des- 

 cendant. C. recognitus is quite readily distinguished by the small 

 nodes on the spiral whorls being obsolete, or present only on three 

 or four of the upper whorls, while in C. pyriformis they are promi- 

 nent on at least seven. It is also less pyriform. 



Length 70, diam. 41 mm. 



Conus imitator Brown and Pilsbry. 



Conus imitator B. and P., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1911, p. 342, pi. 23, fig. 2, 3. 



The largest specimen of a series collected by Gabb is 67 mm. long. 

 The shoulder of the last whorl is acutely angular in the adult stage, 

 and the spire is lower than in C, catenatus. It is related to C. 

 planiliratus, but is larger and smoother, and not contracted near 

 the anterior end. 



Conus stenostoma Sowerby. Plate XXI, flg. 1. 



Conus stenostoma Sowb., Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Soc. xv, 1849, p. 44. 

 Conus stenostoma Sowb., Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxii, pi. 16, fig. 2. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Mr. Guppy's otherwise good figure does not show the marked 

 retraction of the lines of growth at the shoulder, which is one of the 

 important characters of C. stenostoma. 



Length 74, diam. 40 mm.; a larger, imperfect shell has a diameter 

 of 43 mm. 



Conus furvoides Gabb. Plate XX, flg.l. 



Conus furvoides Gabb. Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 232. 



A narrow species, having a prominent ridge projecting above the 

 suture of the last 4 whorls. Spiral striae on the spire are wanting 

 or very faint. There are a few weak spirals towards the base. 



Length 51.5, diam. 24.5 mm. 



Length 44.5, diam. 22.7 mm. Fig. 1. Type. 



The type and eleven other specimens are included in no. 3576 

 A. N. S. P. 



Conus furvoides brachys Pils. and Johns. Plate XX. flg. 3. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 158. 



Conus catenatus Sowerby. Plate XXII, figs. 3, 4. 



Conus catenatus Sby., Q. J. Soc. xv, 1849, p. 45, pi. 9. fig. 2. 



Conus inlerstinctus Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc. xxii, 1866, p. 288, pi. 16, fig. 3. 



This was originally described and figured from a very young ex- 

 ample. It attains the size and has the form of C. consobrinus, but 

 differs by lacking tubercles on the spire. The upper whorls have 

 a smooth, sharp carina projecting above the sutures, becoming 

 blunt on the last 2 or 3 whorls in adults. Above the angle there 

 are very fine spiral striae. Lower half or more of the last whorl is 

 spirally striate, some of the spirals bearing granules. Young shells 

 have more granulose spirals, as usual in this genus. 



Length 65, diam. 29. mm. Fig. 3. 



Length 48, diam. 23.5 mm. 



Length 28, diam. 13 mm. Young. Fig. 4. 



Conus xenicus Pils. and Johns. Plate XX, flgs. 11, lla. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917. p. 159. 



Conus symmetricus Sowerby. Plate XX, flgs. 2, 2a, 2b. 



Conus symmetricus Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc. VI., 1849, p. 44, pi. 9, fig. 1. 



The spire is striate, as in C. haytensis but the early whorls are 

 not nodose above the suture. The granulation occupies from one- 

 third to the whole of the last whorl. Ordinarily there are several 

 nearly smooth, smaller spiral threads between the beaded spirals, 

 but in some examples these secondary threads are as large as the 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



primaries, and nearly all are beaded. The very large series also 

 comprises specimens transitional in sculpture. 



It is much smaller than C. hay iensis, the maximum size seen having 

 a length of 48.5, diam. 28.5 mm. 



There is a different Conus symmetricus of Deshayes, Descr. Anim. 

 s. Vert. Bassin Paris iii, 1866, p. 426, pi. 100, figs. 27, 28. 



C. s. var. semiobsoletus Maury is not separable from symmetricus, 

 being merely the mature stage. This is demonstrated by the very 

 large series in the Gabb collection. 



Conus aratus Gabb. Plate XX, fig. 4. 



Conus aratus Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 232,. 

 Conus ornatus Gabb, Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. v, p. 41. 



This species resembles C. haytensis somewhat in form, but differs 

 by having conspicuous, widely spaced spiral grooves on the lower 

 two-thirds of the last whorl. These grooves are very sharply cut 

 in half-grown shells ; in the largest example some of them are a little 

 less deeply cut. There are about 12 widely spaced grooves and an 

 equal number of close ones near the anterior end. The spire has 

 close and rather deep spiral striae, 4 or 5 on each whorl. The inner 

 whorls are inconspicuously tuberculate above the suture. The 

 growth-lines retract strongly at the shoulder, as in C. stenostoma. 

 which is allied. 



Length 63, diam. 34 mm. Type. 



Length 38, diam. 23.5 mm. Immature. 



Type and 7 others are no. 2572 A. N. S. P. 



C. ornatus Gabb of Maury is the half grown stage of C. aratus. 



Conus planiliratus Sowerby. Plate XX, figs. 6, 9, 



Conus planiliratus Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 44. Guppy, Q. J. 



Geol. Soc, xxii, 1866, p. 287, pi. 16, fig. 7. 

 Conus regularis Sby., Gabb. Journ. A. N. S. Phila., viii, p. 359, pi. 46, figs. 

 45-48. Not of Sowerby. 



Gabb misunderstood this species. What he called C. planiliratus 

 is an undescribed species which will be called C. perlepidus. 



C. planiliratus is an extremely variable shell in sculpture of the 

 last whorl, but the shape and the sculpture of the spire are quite 

 constant. In large specimens the spirals are weak on the upper 

 half of the last whorl (fig. 9). 



Length 42, diam. 21 mm. or smaller. 



We agree with Guppy 's determination of this species. He has 

 figured a Jamaican specimen. 



For Conus planiliratus G. B. Sowerby, Jr., Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



1870, p. 255, pi. 22, fig. 1, we propose the name Conus maculospira 

 Pils. & Johns. 



Conus perlepidus Pils. and Johns. Plate XX, fig. 5. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 159. 



Conus consobrinus Sowerby . Plate XX, figs. 7, 7a, 7b. 



Conus consobrinus Sowb. Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 45. 



The high, straightly conic spire with coronated whorls is distinct- 

 ive. In large specimens from one to two or rarely three latest 

 whorls are without nodes. Spiral . sculpture of the last whorl is 

 variable and in adults generally restricted to the lower half. In 

 some young specimens the last whorl is covered with spiral threads, 

 partly granose. The posterior sinus of the aperture is very deep. 



Length 56, diam. 25 mm. 



Length 50, diam. 22.5 mm. 



There is a large series of various ages in the Gabb collection. 

 Also found in the Bowden formation, and in a modified form it ex- 

 isted into the Pliocene. 



Conus consobrinus ultimus Pils. and Johns. Plate XX, fig. 8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 160. 

 Pliocene of Costa Rica. 



Conus gaza Johnson and Pilsbry. 



Conus marginatus G. B. Sowerby, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 44. 



Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxxii, 1876, p. 528, pi. 29, fig. 5. Gabb, 



Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 230. Not Conus marginatus J. de C. 



Sowerby, 1837. 

 Conus gaza J. and P. in Brown and Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1911, p. 342, 



pi. 23, figs. 2, 3. 



The figured type and 8 other specimens are no. 2554 A. N. S. P. 



Conus marginatus Sowerby, of Cossmann, Journal de Conchy- 

 liologie 1913, p. 44, pi. 3, figs 14, 15, is evidently another species. 

 It may be called Conus pseudomarginatus. 



Conus trisculptus Pils. and Johns. Plate XIX, fig. 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917 p. 160. 



Conus longitudinalis Pils. and Johns. Plate XIX, fig. 4. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 160. 



Conus strombiformis Gabb. Plate XXI, fig. 2. 



Conus strombiformis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 232. 



The upper part of the spire is regular, but the penultimate whorl, 

 at its last third, begins to descend more rapidly, this continuing in 

 the last whorl. The earliest whorls are worn, but the intermediate 

 ones have low and obtuse but strong nodes, and no spiral striation. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 331 



The nodes become weaker on the penult whorl and almost disappear 

 on the last. The last two whorls have the periphery unusually 

 rounded for a Conus. There are about 9 coarse spiral cords near 

 the anterior end. 



Length 63, diam. 35.5 mm. Probably about 12 whorls. 



Type no. 2571 A. N. S. P. A single example. 



This shell has a rather abnormal appearance, but the sculpture 

 of the spire is unlike other known cones of the same beds. 



Conus yaquensis Gabb. Plate XXI, fig. 6. 



Conus yaquensis Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 233,. 



This cone resembles C. proteus closely in shape except that the 

 the spire is lower, with much less concave outlines, the apical angle 

 much wider. The spiral furrow below the suture is deeper. In 

 color it is a "negative" of C. proteus, the spots being white, the in- 

 tervals ferrugineous. This color affects the texture of the shell, 

 the white spots resisting erosion. In one worn specimen there are 

 spiral series of pits along the colored bands. The anterior third 

 of the last whorl has a few narrow raised spirals. 



Length 49, diam. 30 mm. Type. 



Length 40, diam. 23 mm. Paratype. 



The two specimens are no. 2547 A. N. S. P. 



Conus mus Hwass. 



Conus mus Hwass, Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 230. 



Two specimens are catalogued under no. 2562 A. N. S. P. 



Conus bonaczyi Gabb. Plate XIX, fig. 3. 



Conus bonaczyi Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 233. 



This small species has the whorls of the spire flattened, very 

 slightly concave, and marked with arcuate radial striae only. 

 Shoulder rounded; lateral outline convex except near the base, 

 where it is contracted. There are 18 spiral riblets, much wider than 

 the intervening grooves in the upper part, about equal to them in 

 the lower. The riblets are slightly concave on top. The grooves 

 have fine, close, sharp axial striae. 



Length 21.5, diam. 12 mm. 



Type no. 2551 A. N. S. P. 



A specimen 15.3 mm. long has 20 spiral riblets. which are narrower 

 than in the type. 



Conus proteus Hwass. 



The specimens agree well with recent shells in form and markings. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Conus proteus humerosus n. subsp. Plate XXI, fig. 4. 



Some specimens in the lot of proteus have fewer spots, as noted 

 by Gabb. In the one figured there are 6 spiral rows of spots on 

 narrower continuous bands. In another there seem to be 7 such 

 spotted bands, but the color is nearly obliterated. Both of these 

 shells are very broad-shouldered; otherwise they agree with C. 

 proteus. 



Length 65 (apical whorls lost), diam. 45 mm. (Type, no. 2548). 



Length 64, diam. 40.5 mm. 



This cone agrees with C. williamgabbi Maury in general shape 

 and dimensions, but the whorls of the spire are concave, without 

 spiral threads, and there are no spirals in the lower part of the shell. 



Conus simplicissimus Pils. and Johns. Plate XXI, flg. 3, 5. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 161. 



Conus cercadensis Maury (porcellus Pils. and Johns.)- Plate XX, fig. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 161. 



This is apparently synonymous with C. cercadensis Maury. 



Conus pernodosus Pils. and Johns. Plate XXI, flg. 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 162. 



Conus gabbi Pils. and Johns. Plate XXI , flg. 8, 9. 

 Conus gabbi Proc. A. N.S. Phila., 1917, p. 162. 

 Comus gracilissimus Guppy, Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. v, p. 40. 



In Bowden specimens of Conus gracilissimus the spiral cords are 

 flattened and slightly wider than their intervals. In C. gabbi they 

 are much narrower than the intervals and not at all flattened. This 

 is not a matter of age. We have not seen the Bowden species from 

 Santo Domingo. 



Conus larvatus Pils. and Johns. Plate XXI, fig. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 163. 



CANCELLARIIDAE. 



Cancellaria barretti Guppy. 



Cancellaria reticulata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 236. Not of Linne. 

 Cancellaria barretti Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxii, 1866, p. 289, pi. 17 > 

 fig. 11. 



While this species doubtless was the ancestral form of the recent 

 C. reticulata (L.), it differs in several minor characters. The shell 

 is thinner and the whorls of the spire are slightly more convex, giv- 

 ing the spire a less attenuated appearance; the reticulations are 






1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



much finer and more regular, while the varices are more prominent; 

 the columellar plaits are smaller, the large upper one is thin and 

 acute, showing no trace of bifurcation. 



Cancellaria guppyi Gabb. Plate XXII, fig. 7. 



Cancellaria guppyi Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 236. 



Similar to C. barretti in sculpture, but smaller and much thicker, 

 the whorls more ventricose, the suture deep, narrowly channeled; 

 plaits of the columella prominent, the large upper one bluntly bifid. 



Length of the type figured 28, diam. 18.4 mm. 



The type and seven other specimens are no. 2990 A . N. S. P. 



Cancellaria rowelli Dall. 



Cancellaria rowelli Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 1896, p. 307, pi. 29, fig. 1. 



Many specimens of this species were found associated with C. 

 barretti. "It is perhaps most nearly related to C. urceolata Hinds, 

 found living on the west coast of Middle America". 



Cossmann's figures, Journ. de Conch. LXI, 1913, p. 53, pi. 4, fig. 

 5, 6, are probably not this species. 



Cancellaria epistomifera Guppy. Plate XXII, fig. 13. 



Cancellaria moorei Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 236. Not of Guppy. 

 Can cellaria epistomifera Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, xxxii, 1876, p. 520, 

 pi. 28, fig. 9. 



Gabb erroneously referred this to C. moorei Guppy, a common 

 species in the Bowden beds. A specimen is figured for comparison 

 with C. gabbiana. 



Cancellaria laevescens Guppy. 



Cancellaria laevescens Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxii, 1866, p. 289, pi. 

 17, fig. 12. 



This species resembles somewhat the recent C. obesa Sowb., from 

 the west coast of Central America. The Santo Domingo specimens 

 are a small, finely sculptured form of the species, length 28, d am. 

 17.8 mm. 



Cancellaria ellipsis n. sp. Plate XXII, figs. 8. 9. 



Cancellaria tessellata Sowerby, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 

 236. Not of Sowerby. 



The shell is small, oblong, with conic spire of nearly 6 whorls, of 

 which the apparently smooth embryonic si ell comprises 1|. Sub- 

 sequent whorls have an even cancellate sculpture of equally prom- 

 inent axial riblets which are distinctly narrower than their in- 

 tervals, and spiral cords equal to their interstices, the intersections 

 raised. On the last whorl there are 24 spirals. The aperture is 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



somewhat oblique, narrow; outer lip obtuse, evenly arcuate, with 

 marginal crenulations corresponding to external spirals, and a 

 much smaller number of lirae (12) extending further within. The 

 columella has two strong plaits and further out there are several 

 oblong tubercles on its face. A thin callus spreads a short dis- 

 tance forward over the ventral face. 



Length 12, diam. 6.7 mm. 



Type and a second specimen no. 2909 A. N. S. P. Both are 

 figured. 



C. tessellata Sowerby, besides being a much larger shell, differs 

 by the copious callous deposit which spreads over most of the ven- 

 tral face of the last whorl, and the embryonic shell is larger. A 

 specimen 27.3 m. long has nearly 7 whorls, of which about 2f be- 

 long to the embryonic stage. 



Possibly this is a younger stage of C. islacolonis Maury,' which 

 has a more developed lip and a widely spreading callus in front. 

 The two examples however appear to be adult. 



Cancellaria gabbiana Pils. and Johns. Plate XXII, fig. 12. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 163. 



The last whorl is shorter and the aperture broader than in C. 

 epistomifera. There is a trace of the characteristic spout of the lip, 

 but much less marked than in that abundant species. The axial 

 ribs are fewer, more widely and less regularly spaced in gabbiana. 



Cancellaria (Trigone-stoma) insularis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXII, fig. 11. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 163. 



After the If smooth embryonic whorls the sculpture begins ab- 

 ruptly; there are about 14 retractive ribs on the first neanic whorl, 

 crossed by about 7 very much finer, spiral threads. The last whorl 

 has two somewhat enlarged ribs or varices next behind the lip, and 

 one but slightly prominent on the left side of the ventral face. 

 There are no varices on the earlier whorls. The spiral sculpture 

 of the last whorl is far less coarse than in C. gurabis Maury. There 

 are no spirals in the sutural excavation. 



While evidently related to C. gurabis, this differs in so many de- 

 tails that with present materials it appears to be distinct. 



OLIVIDAE. 

 Oliva reticularis Lam. 



The specimens which we refer to typical 0. reticularis are read- 

 ily separated from 0. cylindrica, in the large series at hand. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



335 



Oliva cylindrica Sowerby. Plate XXIII, flgs. 2, 3. 



Oliva cylindrica Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 45. 

 Oliva giraudi Cossmann, Journ. de Conchyl., hi, 1913, p. 56, pi. 5, figs. 1, 6-8 

 (Martinique), figs. 4, 5, (Saint-Domingue.) 



This abundant Olive is distinguishable from 0. reticularis by the 

 wider, more cylindric form, the lower spire composed of flat (not 

 concave) whorls. The shape is much more like Oliva splendidula 

 Sowb., of the west coast of Central America. 



There is the usual variation in height of the spire and degree of 

 concavity of its outlines, such as occurs in most species of Oliva. 



Length 52, diam.25mm. (PI. XXIII, fig. 2). The largest specimen 

 of a very long series is 60.5 mm. long. 



M. Cossmann has figured a quite small specimen from Santo 

 Domingo, under the name Oliva giraudi, but which appears to us 

 indistinguishable from 0. cylindrica except by its smaller size. The 

 length he gives for the species, 93 mm. is probably an error for 33 

 mm. 



Oliva proavia Pils. and Johns. Plate XXIII, flg. 1. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 164. 



This fine Olive requires comparison with 0. cristooalcoloni Maury, 

 which may prove to be an immature specimen of the same species. 

 It is relatively broader, with a differently shaped spire and more 

 fully developed plaits on the inner lip. 



Oliva brevispira Gabb. Plate XXIII, flg. 4. 



Oliva brevispira Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 215. 



This species 'resembles 0. reticularis in form, but is distinguished 

 from other Tertiary and recent species of the region by its very 

 short spire. The greatest width is above the middle. About 30 

 small plaits are on the inner lip. These are somewhat unequal and 

 unevenly spaced, some being spaced by pairs. The siphonal fas- 

 ciole is strongly oblique, its upper ledge entering above the middle 

 of the inner lip. 



Length 34.5, diam. 14 mm., length of aperture, measured to the 

 suture, 30 mm. 



The type, no. 2997 A. N. S. P., is somewhat worn, and none of 

 the six examples is quite perfect. By the shape of the columella it 

 has some resemblance to 0. nebulosa Lam. 0. brevispira of Maury 

 is a different species. 



Oliva gradata Gabb. Plate XXIII, flgs. 10, 11. 



Oliva gradala Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 215. 



The special character of this species is that there is a sharp though 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



slight off-set or ledge encircling the last whorl a short distance 

 (nearly 3 mm.) below the suture. On the whorls of the spire this 

 is concealed by a smooth callus deposit over the inter-sutural space. 

 The spire is straightly conic up to the nipple-like 2 or 3 apical whorls. 

 The inner lip has about 15 strong, evenly spaced plaits. 



Length 28.5, diam. 12 mm.; aperture, measured to suture, 20 mm. 



The type, with two slightly smaller specimens, is no. 2998 A. N. 

 S. P 



Oliva dimidiata Pils. and Johns. Plate XXIII, fig. 8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 165. 



Olivella muticoides (Gabb) Plate XXIII, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



Oliva muticoides Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 215. 

 Oliva canaliculata Gabb, torn. cit. p. 215. Not of H. C. Lea. 



Gabb's two descriptions apply to the high- and low-spired ex- 

 tremes of a single species. The large series before us contains com- 

 pletely transitional examples. 



A thick labial callus extends from the basal fasciole to the suture, 

 its abrupt edge straight and parallel with the lip. 



Length 19.8, diam. 8 mm., length of aperture 13 mm. (type of 

 multicoides) . 



Length 18, diam. 8.5 mm., length of aperture 13.3 mm. (type of 

 canaliculata) . 



Of the three specimens figured, fig. 7 represents the type of muti- 

 coides fig. 6 a transitional example, and fig. 5 the type of canalic- 

 ulata. 



The type and two other specimens of 0. muticoides are no. 2805 

 A. N. S. P.; the type of 0. canaliculata is no. 2806 A. N. S. P.; nu- 

 merous other specimens. 



Olivella floralia (Duclos) 



Olivella oryza Lam., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 215. 



Olivella indivisa Guppy, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xlx, 1896, p. 308, pi. 30, fig. 10. 



We can find no character to distinguish this from the recent spe- 

 cies of the same region. 



Olivella mutica (Say) 



Oliva mutica Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., ii, 1822, p. 22. 



Voluta nitidula Dillwyn, in part, and of authors; not of Deshayes, 1837. 



Several specimens agree in every way with the recent form. Vo- 

 luta nitidula Dillwyn was a composite species, including mutica 

 Say and 0. pusilla Marratt. If the name is used at all, we suggest 

 that it be taken for 0. pusilla. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



337 



Olivella nivea (Gmelin). 



One specimen is referable to this recent species. 



OliveJla rosalina (Duclos). 



Two specimens having entirely the form of this recent species. 



HARPIDAE. 



Harpa amehcana n. sp. Plate XXIII, fig. 13. 



H. rosea Lam., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 214. 



The shell is ovate, of about 6 whorls, of which three smooth ones 

 form the nipple-shaped embryonic shell, the last whorl of which, 

 together with part of the first sculptured whorl, are very narrow. 

 The last whorl has about eleven low and narrow axial ribs which 

 rise into small spines where they pass over the angle bounding a 

 narrow flattening below the suture. The whole surface below this 

 angle is spirally striate, the striation strongest in the concavity of 

 the sides below. The aperture is narrow for this genus. A thin 

 callus spreads forward over the ventral convexity. 



Length 33.3, diam. 28.6 mm. 



This form is very similar to the recent Harpa rosea Lam. (H. 

 doris Bolt.), but specimens of that species of the same size have 

 more ribs and a wider aperture. 



Type no. 4061 A. N. S. P. 



MARGINELLIDAE. 



Marginella sowerbyi Gabb. Plate XXIII, flg. 14. 



Marginella sowerbyi Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. x\, 1873, p. 221. 



A markedly biconic species. The second and third columellar 

 plaits have flattened and slightly furrowed summits, the fourth 

 being flattened. 



Length 14.5, diam. 8.1, length of aperture 10.5 mm. 



A much smaller example, length 8.2 mm., with the type, shows 

 traces of coloration. There are 5 spiral zones, the upper, middle 

 and lower vertically lineolate with white, the other two having spot- 

 ted borders and uniform median bands. 



Type no. 2498 A. N. S. P. 



Marginella nugax Pils. and Johns. Plate XXIV, flg. 14. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 165. 



Marginella coniformis Soweiby. 



Marginella coniformis Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 45. Guppy, I. c. 

 xxii, 1866, p. 288, pi. 17, fig. 2. Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 1896, p. 

 309. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Several specimens. Guppy 's figure is very poor, even for a Ja- 

 maica specimen. As a rule these are somewhat narrower than shells 

 from Santo Domingo. It seems very close to, if not identical with, 

 M. aurora Dall, from the Oligocene bed of the Chipola River; but 

 we have not been able to compare specimens of the latter. 



Marginella domingoensis Dall. 



Marginella domingoensis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 310, 1896. 



Four specimens we refer to this species. Dr. Dall writes: "This 

 species is close to M . aurora Dall, from the Chipola marl, but has 

 the tip of the spire less conspicuous and the aperture quite flexuous 

 instead of nearly straight. " Length 24 mm., greatest diam. 14 mm. 



Marginella cercadensis Maury. 



Marginella chrysomelina Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 221. 



Four specimens, no. 3269. On two, traces of the spiral color lines 



may be seen. 



Marginella latissima Dall. 



Marginella latissima Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 1896, p. 308, pi. 29, 

 fig. 11. 



The specimens of this species from Santo Domingo represent 

 a great range of variation, but with many before us it seems im- 

 possible to assort them except by sizes. Gabb referred these doubt- 

 fully to M. apicina on the label, but he did not mention the species 

 in his work. 



Marginella amina Dall. 



Marginella amina Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 1896, p. 309, pi. 29, fig. 15. 



Two specimens are labeled in Gabb's handwriting " M. antiqua 

 Redfield", but they are not mentioned in his work. 



VOLUTIDAE. 



Lyria pulchella (Sowerby) 



Voluta pulchella Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 46, pi. 9, fig. 4. 



Lyria pulchella Sby., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv. p. 219. 



Lyria pulchella Sby., Dall, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 90, p. 58, pi. 10, fig. 11. 



Sowerby has given a good figure of this species. In some speci- 

 mens the axial ribs become obsolete on the last whorl. 



Lyria mississippiensis (Conr.) of the Vicksburg Oligocene is a 

 closely related form. Dr. Dall has recorded L. pulchella from the 

 silex beds at Ballast Point, Florida. 



Lyria soror (Sowerby) Plate XXIV, figs 11, 12. 



Voluta soror Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 46. 



The axial ribs are somewhat flexuous and much more delicate 






1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



than in L. pulchella; the anterior spirals are stronger; finally the 

 apical whorls differ. In L. pulchella there are \\ smooth whorls, 

 the first one globose and bulging, the second narrower. In L. soror 

 the summit is smaller, the whorls increasing regularly, and there 

 are If smooth ones. These differences certainly indicate specific 

 divergence. 



Aurinia striata (Gabb) Plate XXIII, fig. 9. 



Scapha striata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 219. 



Scaphella (Aurinia) striata Gabb, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, 1890, p. 88. 



The rounded summit (f of a whorl) is worn; after that all of the 

 whorls are closely striate spirally. The first 2f whorls have a sub- 

 cylindric shape; then small nodules appear above the middle, which 

 becomes subangular. The last whorl has a prominent rounded ridge 

 at the shoulder, closely set with about 22 compressed nodes. Two 

 columellar plaits remain on the type, which is broken anteriorly. 

 In a very young one there are three. 



Length as broken 25, diam. 11.5 mm. Nearly 5 whorls. 



Gabb's type, nb. 3274 A. N. S. P., is a young shell; another 

 13 mm. long was taken. The consideration of the species by Dall 

 referred to above, should be consulted. 



MITRIDAE. 



Mitra henekeni Scwerby. 



Mitra henikeri Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, p. 46, 1849, pi. 9, fig. 5. 



Adult specimens have but two columellar plaits, with sometimes 

 the very weak trace of a third; in young specimens the third plait 

 is more distinct. Sowerby 's illustration is good, though the speci- 

 men was incomplete. 



M . henekeni resembles the following species, but it is less slender, 

 the whorls are more convex, and are acutely carinate below the chan- 

 nelled suture. 



Length 58, diam. 15 mm. Broken specimens indicate that it 

 reaches a length of about 65 mm. 



Mitra longa Gabb. Plate XXIV, flg. 3. 



Mitra longa Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 219. Brown and Pilsbry, 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1911, p. 346, pi. 24, fig. 11. 



A very slender shell with three well-developed columellar plaits 

 and traces of two more. The acute spiral cords alternate with 

 smaller ones, the intervals having some spiral threads, more num- 

 erous near the base. The intervals are crossed by even, fine axial 

 threads. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Length 61.3, diam. 13.6 mm. The largest one is somewhat 

 broken, but evidently had a length of about 75 mm. 

 Type and 12 other specimens are no. 3263 A. N. S. P. 



Mitra titan Gabb. Plate XXIV, figs 1, 2. 



Mitra titan Gabb, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. xv. 1873, p. 220. 

 Mitra symmetrica Gabb, I. c. 



This large species reminds one of M. millingioni Conr., from the 

 Jacksonian Eocene, but has finer revolving and more prominent 

 longitudinal lines, it is also somewhat wider in proportion to its 

 length. 



The adult stage is represented by one specimen, broken at both 

 ends (PI. XXIV, fig. 2), in its mutilated condition measuring, length 

 106.3, diam 43 mm. The spire shows fine spirals, every fourth one 

 deeper; tapering base densely striate spirally, the peripheral region 

 of the last whorl being smooth. In the young stage, represented 

 by Gabb's Mitra symmetrica (PI. XXIV, fig. 1), the whole surface is 

 closely sculptured with spiral cords, on the upper part of the last 

 whorl alternating with smaller threads ; the intervals being beauti- 

 fully sculptured with very fine axial threads as in M . longa. Length 

 of M. symmetrica 51.2, diam. 13.8 mm. The types of both M. titan 

 and M . symmetrica show four columellar plaits, the lower one small 

 and hardly visible in a front view. 



Five specimens around 50 to 80 mm. long, afford the stages con- 

 necting symmetrica and titan. 



Type of M. titan no. 3261 A. N. S. P. 5 smaller specimens are 

 contained in no. 3267. 



Type of M. symmetrica no. 3260 A. N. S. P. 



Mitra rudis Gabb. Plate XXIV. figs. 4, 5. 



Mitra rudis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 220. 

 Mitra quemadica Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. v, p. 75. 



The last whorl has about nineteen low, rounded, spiral cords, 

 five of which are visible on the whorls of the spire. These are 

 crossed and made subgranular by very irregular, subobsolete, axial 

 wrinkles or growth lines. In the adolescent shell there are raised 

 threads across the intervals, which appear pitted. Between the 

 upper spiral cord and the next, there is a wider interval. 



Length (summit broken) 31.3, diam. 13.8 mm. 



Type is no. 3262 A. N. S. P., with 5 smaller examples. 



Mitra granulosa Lamarck. 



We refer a young specimen 18 mm. long to this recent species. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Mitra barbadensis (Gmelin) 



The single specimen is rather worn, but agrees well with recent 

 specimens. 



Mitra mesolia Pils. and Johns. Plate XXIV, fig. 10. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 166. 



Vexillum tortuosellum (Pils. and Johns.) Plate XXIV. fig. 9. 



Mitra tortuosella Pils. and Johns., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 165. 



Vexillum tortuosellum frater (Pils. and Johns.) Plate XXIV, fig. 13. 



Mitra tortuosella frater Pils. and Johns., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 166. 



Vexillum tortuosum (Gabb) Plate XXIV, fig. 8. 



Mitra torluosa-Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 220. 



There are about fifteen sharp, axial ribs on the last, eleven or 

 twelve on the penult whorl. Between them are many impressed 

 spiral lines, eleven or twelve on the penult whorl, parted by convex 

 intervals which become spiral cords towards the anterior end of the 

 shell, the axial ribs disappearing there. There are four columellar 

 plaits, and the outer lip is closely Urate within. 



Length 32.3, diam. 11.5 mm. 



Type and 4 other specimens are no. 3284 A. N. S. P. 



Plochelaea crassilabrum Gabb. Plate XXIV, fig. 6. 



PlocheUen crassilabra Gabb, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 272, pi. 11, fig. 5 



(Feb. 11, 1873.) 

 Plochelaea crassilabrum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 216. 



The shell is smooth, oblong, widest above the middle, solid; spire 

 straightly conic; suture scarcely impressed, ascending in front. 

 Last whorl swollen above, the anterior two-thirds slowly tapering: 

 terminating in a massive but low and rounded varix. The aperture 

 is sinuous, the upper half narrow, lower half dilated; lip thick, blunt, 

 the outer margin inflected, widest in the middle, dilated near the 

 base. Anterior canal deep. Columella crossed by an emerging 

 callus which is thickened in the lower half; bearing five low, round- 

 ed, parallel and contiguous entering plaits, the third one slightly 

 the strongest. 



Length 44.2, diam. 19.8 mm. Length of aperture measured 

 from base to the end of the suture, 35.4 mm. 



The type, represented by Gabb's figure and ours, is no. 3289 

 A. N. S. P. The eroded seat of an Hipponix scars the spire. In his 

 later specific description, Gabb confused this species with the fol- 

 lowing one; his measurement and the phrase relating to the columellar 

 plaits relating to the latter. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



The spire is somewhat worn above, so that the number of whorls 

 is uncertain. 



The genus Plochelcea Gabb belongs, no doubt, to the Mitridae. 

 It stands close to, if not to be united with, the genus Mutyca H. & A. 

 Adams, 1853, type M . ancillides Swains., with which Mitroidea Pease 

 1865, (typeilf. multiplicata Pse.), and Mauritia H.Adams, 1869, type 

 M. barclayi H. Ad., are to be united as synonyms or sections. 

 Dibaphus Philippi (1847), is another allied genus. With a knowl- 

 edge of the above mentioned genera it seems strange that Gabb re- 

 ferred Plochelcea to the Olividae. 



The type of Plochelcea is P. crassilabrum Gabb. 



Plochelaea gabbi Pils. and Johns. Plate. XXIV, fig. 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 166. 



XANCIDAE. 



Turbinellidae of authors. 



The replacement of the name Turbinella by Xancus is one of the 

 outrages against scientific nomenclature consequent upon the 

 adoption of Bolten's Museum as a source of generic and specific 

 names. The disappearance of the name Turbinella necessitates 

 alteration of the family name. 



This family is remarkably well developed in the Santo Domingo 

 beds. 



Xancus rex Pils. and Johns. Plate XXVI, figs. 5, 8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 167. 



The spire is longer than usual in X. scolymus, not shorter as stated 

 in the original description. The inner lip often has the callus de- 

 tached at the edge. The size of adults varies a good deal. 



It is an abundant species, mistaken for X. validus by Gabb, 

 Maury and others. 



Xancus validus (Sowerby) Plate XXV, fig. 3. 



Turbinellus validus Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 50. Not of Gabb or 

 Maury. 



This species has been misunderstood by Gabb and Maury, owing 

 to Sowerby 's qualified comparison with Turbinella scolymus. 

 The original description, however, is good, and the comparison not 

 strained when one remembers that in 1849 Turbinella comprised 

 also Vasum, Latirus and other genera. 



The shell is obesely fusiform, ponderous. The embryonic stage 

 is unknown, but the early and middle neanic whorls have thick, 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



rounded axial folds, weak below the suture, 6 or 7 on a whorl, and 

 fine axial costulation, over which about 8 rather acute, narrow 

 spiral threads run. On the last 2 or 3 whorls the axial folds are 

 replaced by small, rounded tubercles disposed along a slight shoul- 

 der angle; the spirals become weak and sparse except towards the 

 base. The suture is rather narrowly, deeply channelled. At rest- 

 ing stages and the final lip the suture rises very little. There are 

 three strong plaits, the anterior one lowest and thickest. The largest 

 shell measures 176 mm. long, 80 wide. This species differs from 

 X. rex "in its tubercles, which are small and rounded, "and the less 

 emphatic sculpture generally. 



X. validus differs from Turbinella ovoidea Kiener by the channelled 

 suture and the more prominent axial folds of the spire. T. regina 

 Heilpr. is more elongate than X. validus at all stages of growth. 

 T. scolymoides Dall has more elaborate sculpture, the axial folds 

 persisting longer, and the columellar plaits are smaller. T. wilsoni 

 Conr. is more shouldered, with larger nodes. T. polygonata Heilpr. 

 seems to resemble T. wilsoni rather closely, but no good adult speci- 

 mens have been found. 



Fasciolaria textilis Guppy 19 is less excavated below the periphery 

 than the present species, but a form of the Bowden bed which we 

 had provisionally called Xancus textilis jamaicensis (PI XXV, figs. 5, 6) 

 is rather closely related. It has conspicuous axial wrinkles above 

 the shoulder, which is more developed and has larger nodes than 

 X. validus. The first whorl following the embryonic stage has 

 about twice as many axial folds as the succeeding whorls, and the 

 suture is not in the least channelled. 



A variety of X. validus with somewhat larger nodes at the shoul- 

 der was taken by Mr. L. B. Smith west of Azua, Haiti.. 



Xancus prseovoideus Maury. 



Turbinella ovoidea Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 218; not T. ovoidea 



Kiener, 1840. 

 Xancus ■proozvoideus Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. v, p. 83. 

 Xancus praovoideus Maury, op. cit. p. 241. 



This fine shell, which Gabb collected in considerable quantity, 

 differs from the recent X. ovoideus by the strong sculpture of the 

 neanic whorls, as Miss Maury has pointed out. It reaches a length 

 of 175 to about 200 mm. The suture usually rises abruptly at rest- 

 ing stages and behind the final peristome. 



It differs from X. validus by the smoother later whorls. In a 



19 Geol. Mag. 1874, p. 140, pi. 16, fig. 5. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



few specimens weak traces of the shoulder tubercles can be seen, 

 suggesting a transition to X. validus, which has exactly the same 

 early sculpture; but no evidence of an actual intergradation is at 

 hand. 



Vasum dominicense Gabb Plate XXVII, figs. 4, 5. 



Yasum dominicensis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 218. 



Closely related to the recent V. capitellum (L.), but the shoulder 

 is less developed. There are eight obtuse, massive folds on the 

 last whorl, the intervals clathrate. The outer lip is rather weakly 

 Urate within and the columella has three rather small plaits. 



Length 60, diam. 37.5 mm. Type, fig. 5. 



Length 32, diam. 19 mm. Fig. 4. 



Type and a smaller shell are no. 2623 A. N. S. P. 



Vasum haitense (Sowerby) 



Turbinella haitensis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, p. 50. Guppy, Q. J. Geol. 



Soc. xxxii, 1876, p. 523, pi. 29, fig. 3. 

 Vasum haitense Sowb., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 218. 



Twelve specimens. It becomes very large and ponderous. 



Vasum tuberculatum Gabb. Plate XXVII, flgs. 2, 3. 



Vasum tuberculatum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv. 1873, p. 218. 



This species is very distinct from V. haitense, and in fact from 

 all others known to us. The spire is much higher than in haitense. 

 Seven very large tubercles on the shoulder of the last whorl are bifid 

 at their summits, a swelling being superposed below the crest. The 

 inferior tubercular ridge is somewhat smaller than in haitense, and 

 there are slightly tubercular, very much smaller ridges above and 

 below it. Five weak columellar plaits. 



Length 112, greatest diam. 87 mm. 



Type is no. 2624 A. N. S. P. 



Vasum edincatum (Guppy) 



Turbinellus edificatus Guppy, Q. J. Gecl. Soc, xxxii, 1876, p. 523, pi. 28, fig. 5- 

 Vasum subcapitellum Heilprin, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., i, 188, p. 109> 



pi. 15, fig. 44. Dall, same Trans., iii, 1890, p. 99, pi. 4, fig. 12. 

 ? Vasum dominicense Gabb, var. gurabicum Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. v, p. 84. 



Vasum subcapitellum, from the Oligocene of Ballast Point, differs 

 only in being somewhat smaller than Santo Domingo specimens. 



The neanic stage is rather profusely spinose. Guppy 's figure 

 shows the much less spinose adult stage. 



Vasum pugnus Pils. and Johns. Plate XXVII, fig. 1. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 167. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



FASCIOLARIIDAE. 



Leucozonia rhomboidea (Gabb) Plate XXVI, flg. 9. 



Lagena rhomboidea Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 218. 



The first whorl is globose with a depressed tip; 1| smooth whorls 

 form the embryonic shell. The following whorl has axial folds and 

 spiral threads, the folds weakening and finally disappearing on the 

 succeeding whorls, but persisting as low, rounded peripheral nodes 

 on part of the last whorl. The narrow furrow encircling the base 

 has raised edges in the latter part. Outer lip is lirate within. 

 There are three small columellar plaits. 



Length 13.6, diam. 8 mm.; 6£ whorls. 



It is probably ancestral to the recent L. cingulifera. 



Type and a smaller specimen are no. 2947 A. N. S. P. 



Latirus infundibulum (Gmel.) 



Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 27. 



Four specimens. The secondary spirals are a little more de 

 veloped than in recent shells. 



Latirus brevicaudatus santodomingensis n. subsp. Plate XXV, fig. 4. 



Differs from recent L. brevicaudatus by the smaller, more nu- 

 merous primary spiral cords. On the convexity of the later whorls 

 secondary spiral threads occupy the intervals, and on the last part, 

 of the last whorl there are some threads of the third order. 



Length 57, diam. 24.5 mm. 



Type is no. 2952 A. N. S. P. 



Latirus fusiformis Gabb. Plate XXVI, figs. 2, 3. 



Latirus fusiformis Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv. p. 217. 



Smaller and more slender than L. infundibulum, with narrower 

 and more numerous axial folds, rather abruptly terminated above, 

 nine on the last whorl. The spiral cords are also smaller. There 

 are some rather widely spaced, unequally grouped and irregular 

 axial lamellae below the suture. 



Length 31.5, diam. 12 mm. 



Type no. 2954 A. N. S. P. 



Latirus elongatus Gabb. Plate XXVI, flg. 4. 

 Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 217. 

 This species is distinguished by its unually long anterior canal. 

 The penult whorl has ten, last whorl nine axial folds. Spiral cords 

 are small above, larger and more spaced on the canal. Only the 

 last two whorls of the type are preserved. As broken the specimen 

 measures : 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Length 49.5, diam. 17.5 mm. 

 Type no. 2955 A. N. S. P. 



Latirus angustatus Gabb. Plate XXVI, flg. 1. 



Latirus angustalus Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 217. 



The single specimen, in poor preservation, differs from L. elongatus 

 by the greater number of axial folds, 11 on the last whorl. There 

 are some very weak lirae within the outer lip, the lower ones broken 

 into granules, as in L. elongatus. We suspect that augustatus is 

 merely a young elongatus. 



Length 27 mm (spire and canal broken), diam. 11 mm. 



Type no. 2950 A. N. S. P. 



Latdrofusus exilis (Gabb) Plate XXV, flg. 1. 



Latirus exilis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 217. 



The last whorl has five broad, rounded axial folds, which extend 

 upon the narrow anterior part. Whorls of the spire with four spiral 

 cords, the lower partly concealed in the suture. There are four 

 acute lirae within the outer lip, and two small, subhorizontal plaits 

 on the columella. 



Length 31.4, diam. 9.3 mm. 



This is a typical species of Latirofusus Cossmann. The genus 

 is represented in the American Oligocene (Vicksburg) by L. per- 

 ' exilis (Cordieria per exilis Conrad), and in the Eocene (Lower Clai- 

 borne) by L. harrisi Johns., (which proves to be a synonym of L. per- 

 exilis), and L. obtusa Johns. ; in the Jackson bed by L. leaensis Harris. 



Type no. 2948 A. N. S. P. 



Fasciolaria kempi Maury. 



Fasciolaria intermedia Sby., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 217. 



In some specimens the last whorl has a rounded shoulder, with- 

 out tubercles. In others the tubercles extend to the lip. Up to 12 

 cm. long. 



Fasciolaria semistriata Sowerby. 



Fasciolaria semistriata Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 49. 



Fasciolaria semistriata Sowb., Guppy Q. J. Geol. Soc. xxii, 1866, p. 288, pi. 16, 



fig. 12. 

 Fasciolaria semistriata Sowb., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 216. 

 Fasciolaria intermedia Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 49. 



The great convexity of the whorls and the concavity below the 

 suture are characteristic. It seems to have had dark spiral lines, 

 like F. distans, with sculpture more like F. tulipa. Anterior canal 

 is very long and slender. The early neanic whorls have low axial 

 folds and spiral striae. Length 104 mm. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



347 



Fusinus haitensis (Sowerby) 



Fusus haitensis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi. 1849, p. 47. 

 Fusus henekeni var. haitensis Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, pp. 524, 532, pi. 

 28, fig. 2. 



One broken specimen and two young ones with subangular whorls 



are referred to this species. Without more material we cannot say 



whether it is distinct from F. henekeni or a variety thereof. 



Fusinus henekeni (Sowerby) Plate XXVI, figs. 6, 7. 

 . Fusus henikeri Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 49. 



Fusus henekeni Sowb., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 204. 

 Fusus henekeni Guppy, Q. J. Geol Soc. xxxii, 1876, p. 524, pi. 28, fig. 6. 



The figure given by Guppy is poor; the whorls should be more 

 convex, and the spiral ridges larger and less numerous, there being 

 only six or seven visible an the whorls of the spire. Many of the 

 specimens show alternating spiral ridges on the larger whorls. 

 Sowerby does not mention this character, but as Guppy 's figure 

 shows it indistinctly, we would consider the form with alternating 

 sculpture to be typical. 



It probably represents the ancestral form of F. eucosmius Dall, 

 now living in 27-73 fathoms in the Gulf of Mexico and West Indies. 



Length of the form with subequal spirals 71, diam. 22 mm. A 

 specimen with prominent alternating spirals on the two large whorls 

 (obsolete on the next earlier) measures length 89, diam. 26 mm. 



It appears to be an abundant species. 



Melongena (?). antillarum (Gabb) Plate XXVIII, flgs. 10, 17. 



Hemifusus antillarum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 204. 



The largest cotype (fig. 17)has lost- all of the spire, the last whorl 

 measuring, length 79, diam. 49.5 mm., aperture 63 mm. There is 

 a small ridge in the position of the inferior spine-series of the recent 

 Gulf species of Melongena. The strongly Urate interior is a prom- 

 inent feature. The smaller cotype (fig. 10) is a young shell 43.6 

 mm. long. 



A fragment of the canal indicates a size somewhat exceeding the 

 larger specimen. Two cotypes, with an additional fragment, no. 

 2797 A. N. S. P. 



Melongena consors (Sowerby) 



Pyrula consors Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 49. 

 Melongena melongena L., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 205. 



Very closely related to M. melongena, but differing by having 

 strong spiral striation in the adult stage. It is also more ponderous. 

 The height of the spire varies a good deal. The variations in the 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



spines are the same as in M. melongena. The largest in the series is 

 about 15 cm. long. 



The early neanic stage is unarmed as in M . melongena, and some- 

 times it is Urate within the aperture. 



A single specimen with all the appearance of an adult is only 36 

 mm. long (no. 2798 A. N. S. P.). It is probably a dwarf, compar- 

 able to the well known dwarf form of M. corona, inhabiting inlets 

 probably deficient in salinity. (PI. XXXI, fig. 5) 



Melongena orthacantha Pils. and Johns. Plate XXVIII, figs. 13-16. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 168. 



Nassaria corrugata (Gabb) Plate XXII, fig. 15 (N. brevis). 



Muricidea corrugata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 203. 

 Nassaria brevis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 213. 



The characters of the types of these species are the same except 

 that brevis is larger. The latter has a rather bulbous embryonic 

 shell of 1| smooth whorls. The following ^ whorl has numerous 

 narrow axial ribs, after which there are strong, evenly spaced axial 

 folds, 9 on the last whorl. These are traversed by acute spiral cords, 

 of which there are six on the penult whorl, with minor threads in 

 two or three of the intervals. The two cords above the suture are 

 small, following two at periphery larger. The mouth is strongly 

 lirate within, and the columella has four short, somewhat ascending 

 plaits. There is also an entering cord near the posterior angle of 

 the mouth. 



Length 20, diam. 13 mm.; 1\ whorls. 



The type of M . corrugata has 8 folds on the last /horl. It meas- 

 ures: length 15, diam. 9.4 mm. 6% whorls. As it has been broken 

 and repaired, and there is no question of the absolute identity with 

 N. brevis, the latter only has been figured. 



Type of M . corrugata is no. 3247 A. N. S. P.; of N. brevis, no. 3246 

 A. N. S. P. 



BUCCINIDAE. 



Phos semicostatus Gabb. Plate XXII, figs. 23. 24. 25.. 



Phos semicostatus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 212. 



A variable species. Typically the coarse folds of the spire give 

 place to fine axial folds on the last whorl, with one to three variceal 

 folds, but sometimes the stronger folds are somewhat numerous, 

 a few examples having seven or eight on the last whorl. 



Length 34, diam. 16.6 mm. Type no 3241 A. N. S. P. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Length 34, diam. 18 mm. 

 Length 33.3, diam. 15.6 mm. 



Phos metuloides Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 310, pi. 28, 

 fig. 15, from Ponton, Santo Domingo, was not obtained by Gabb. 



Phos gabbi Dall. 



Phos veraguensis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 212. (Not 



Hinds.). 

 Phos gabbi Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 310, pi. 29. fig. 4. 1896. 



Though undoubtedly distinct, this species is closely related to 



P. moorei Guppy, from the beds at Bowden, Jamaica. 



Phos elegans Guppy. 



Phos elegans Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. xxii, 1866, p. 290. pi. 16, fig. 11. 



Numerous specimens referable to this species were found asso- 

 ciated with the specimens labeled veraguensis by Gabb. 



Phos guppyi Gabb. Plate XXII, flgs. 16, 17, 18. 



Phos guppyi Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 212. 



The few longitudinal costae and numerous fine revolving raised 

 lines distinguish this species. The sculpture of the neanic stage 

 is sometimes continued in the adult, as in fig. 18. 



Length 38, diam. 17.4 mm. (Type fig. 17). 



Length 33.4, diam. 15 mm. (Fig. 16). 



Type no. 3243 A. N. S. P. 



Phos (Strongylocera) costatus Gabb. Plate XXII, flgs. 10, 14. 



Phos costatus Gabb, Trans. Amer, Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 212. 



Phos fasciolatus Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 311, pi. 28, fig. 12, 1896. 



The number of longitudinal folds on the last whorl varies from 

 8-12. Dall 's P. fasciolatus from the Oligocene at Potrero, Rio Amina, 

 Santo Domingo, is a form or variety of costatus characterized by 

 having 14 somewhat narrower ribs, but entirely similar in other re- 

 spects. 



Length 31 mm., greatest diam. 17 mm. 



Type no. 3242 A. N. S. P. 



Metula cancellata Gabb. Plate XXII, flgs. 19, 20. 



Metula cancellata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv., 1873, p. 205. 



There are two specimens of this exquisite species, the larger one 

 (type) measuring, length 24.5, diam. 8 mm., aperture 13.3 mm. It 

 has lost the embryonic whorls. 



Type no. 3244 A. N. S. P. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



COLUMBELLIDAE. 



Columbella inflate (Gabb) Plate XVIII, flg. 14. 



Strombina inflata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 221. 



This species is distinguished by its inflated form, the last four 

 whorls being subangular near the suture. There is a very broad, 

 low varix occupying the last fifth of the last whorl, giving it a gib- 

 bous appearance, then contracting to the lip. 



Length 25.6, diam. 13.4 mm. 



The type is no. 3287 A. N. S. P. One specimen only. 



Anachis exiUs (Gabb) Plate XVIII, flg. 13. 



Strombina exilis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 222. 

 Anachis exilis Gabb, Dall, Tr. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., iii, p. 139. 



The whorls have about 15 straight axial ribs, the last one with 

 spiral cords on the anterior third. Over a small area behind the lip- 

 varix the axial ribs are effaced except near the suture. 



Length 4.3, diam. 2 mm. 



Type no. 2807 A. N. S. P. Twelve other specimens. 



Anachis gracilicosteta Pils. and Johns. Plate XVIII, flg. 17. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 168. 



Anachis (?) quadrate (Gabb) Plate XVIII, flg. 8. Text-flg. 16. 



Fusus quadratus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 204. 



The smooth embryonic shell has 2\ whorls. 

 First post-nuclear whorl has 10 rounded ribs, 

 after which the ribs rapidly become more widely 

 spaced, until on the last whorl there are five, and 

 in a basal view (text fig. 16) the shell has a square 

 outline. There is no bend in the delicate growth- 

 lines to indicate a posterior sinus, though the aper- 

 Basal outline ture otherwise has a Drillia-like appearance. In 

 of A. quadrata. the concavity below the periphery there are fine 

 spiral striae. The columella is broad with rounded face. 

 Length 8.7, diam. 4 mm. ; 8 whorls. 

 Type no. 3234 A. N. S. P. 

 The generic place of this strongly marked little shell is uncertain. 



Strombina caribaea Gabb. Plate XVIII, flg. 9. 



Strombina caribaea Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 221. 



This species has a slender, acuminate spire. The surface is 

 smooth except on the narrow anterior part, which has about 12 

 spiral cords. The lip has a very heavy varix, and six large and sev- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



eral small teeth within, below the middle. There is a very heavy- 

 callus on the parietal wall, and about 6 teeth on the columella. 



Length 10.2, diam. 5.2 mm.; length of aperture 5.8 mm. 85 

 whorls. 



Type and two other adult and three young specimens are no. 3996 

 A. N. S. P. 



It is well distinguished from S. haitensis by the slender, smooth 

 spire. 

 S. caribaea micra n. var. Plate XVIII, figs. 10, 11. 



Smaller and narrower than the preceding, with 8 basal cords, 

 three teeth within the outer lip and none on the columella. 



Length 5.8, diam. 2.7 mm.; *I\ whorls. 



The two figures represent the same specimen, fig. 11 being the 

 same scale as fig. 9. 



Type no. 2800 A. N. S. P. 



Strombina haitensis (Sowerby) 



Columbella haitensis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 46. 

 Strombina haitensis Sby., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 221. 



Distinguished by the straight axial ribs of the spire, and small 



ridge revolving immediately below the suture. Length 8.5 mm. 



Strombina politissima Pils. and Johns. Plate XVIII, fig, 15. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917,p. 168. 



S. mira Dall, from Gatun, has a small prominence below the su- 

 ture, wanting in politissima, and the last whorl is striate from the 

 periphery down. Otherwise our species appears very close to it. 



Strombina prisma Pilsbry and Johnson. 



Strombina prisma P. and J., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1911, p. 352, footnote, pi. 



25, figs. 9, 10. 

 Strombina gradata Guppy, in part, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 



221. Not of Guppy. 



The type and six other specimens are no. 3292 A. N. S. P. 



Strombina cyphonotus Pilsbry and Johnson. 



Strombina cyphonotus P. and J., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1911, p. 353, footnote» 



pi. 25, figs. 6, 7. 

 Strombina gradata Guppy, in part, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, 



p. 221. Not of Guppy. 



The type and eight other specimens are no. 3893 A. N. S. P. 



Strombinella acuformis Dab. 



Strombinella acuformis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, p. 312, pi. 29, fig. 6. 



Potrero, Rio Amina, Dall; Santo Domingo, Gabb, no. 2960, four 



specimens. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Metulella venusta (Sowerby) 



Columbella venusta Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 46, pi. 9, fig. 6. 

 Metulella venusta Sowb., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 206. 



This species reaches a length of 30 mm. It is the type of the genus 

 Metulella. 



Nassaria isthmica Bose var. elongata Toula. Jahrb., k. k. Geol. 

 Reichsanst 1911, pi. 29, fig. 8, appears to be a related Metulella. 



Metulella fusiformis Gabb. Plate XVII I, fig. 16. 



Metulella fusif or mis Gabb, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 270, pi. 11, fig. 3 

 (Feb. 11, 1873); Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 206. 



The embryonic shell is like that of the following species. Subse- 

 quent whorls have many narrow, rounded vertical ribs crossed by 

 somewhat flattened but prominent spiral cords, of which there are 

 five between sutures. There is a low swelling behind the outer lip. 

 Suture is somewhat channeled. 



Length 18.6, diam. 6 mm. ; 9£ whorls. 



Type no. 3216 A. N. S. P.; 5 other specimens. 



Metulella dominicensis Pils. and Johns. Plate XVIII, fig. 18. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 169. 



Perhaps not distinct from M. williamgabbi Maury, but that is de- 

 scribed as having "spiral striae faint, obsolescent" which is not the 

 case with our two specimens, in which the spirals are strongly de- 

 veloped. 



MURICIDAE. 



Murex (Chicoreus) brevifrons Lamarck. 



Murex brevifrons Lam., An. sans Vert, vii, 1822, p. 161. 



Murex {Chicoreus) megacerus Sby. Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1876, p. 



202. (Not of Sowerby). 

 Murex cornurectus Guppy, Q. J. Geol Soc. xxxii, 1876, p. 521, pi. 28, fig. 4. 



There appears to be no character distinguishing the Miocene 

 specimens from the recent. Ten specimens, no. 3256. 



Murex rufus compactus Gabb. Plate XXVIII, fig. 1. 



Murex (Pteronotus) compactus Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 202. 



This differs from the recent M. rufus in being much thicker, the 

 frondose structure of the varices is more compact, forming almost 

 solid varices squamose in front. Only one tubercle is present be- 

 tween the varices on the last two whorls, two on the preceding whorl. 

 The greater number of recent specimens have two intervariceal 

 tubercles. 



Length 56.4, diam. 32.3 mm. 



Type and four other specimens are no. 3258 A. N. S. P. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Murex (Pteropurpura) textilis Gabb. Plate XXVIII, flg. 4. 



Murex (Pteronotus) lextilisGabb, Tr. Am.Philos. Soc.,xv, p. 202. Dall, Trans. 



Wagner Free Inst., iii, p. 142, pi. 9, fig. 4. 

 Murex (Pteropurpura) textilis Dall, t.c. pt. 2, 1892, p. 243. 



This beautiful species is also found in the Pliocene of the Cal- 



oosahatchie River, Florida. It has been well figured by Dr. Dall. 



Length 31, diam. 17 mm. 



Type no. 3257 A. N. S. P. 



Murex recurvirostris Brod. 



Murex recurvirostris Brod., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 201. 

 Murex messorius Sowb., Reeve, Conch. Icon., Murex, fig. 90. 



This is an extremely variable species. In the large series before 

 us from both the West Indies and the west coast of Central Amer- 

 ica and Mexico, we can find no invariable character by which to 

 separate them aside from their geographic distribution. This 

 does not seem ground for specific distinction, for the two have ap- 

 parently existed unchanged since the Oligocene, when the Alantic 

 and the Pacific Oceans were still connected. 



Murex domingensis Sowerby. 



Murex domingensis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 49, pi. 10, fig. 5. 

 This differs from M. recurvirostris in usually having a noticeably 

 higher spire, less spinose and slightly more elevated varices, with 

 usually four intervariceal folds that are more evenly nodose (not 

 tuberculate) ; the fine spiral lines alternating with the nodose spirals 

 are more prominent, and the anterior canal is apparently shorter. 



Murex yaquensis Maury. 



Murex antillarum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 202. Not of Hinds. 



While resembling somewhat the extreme form of M. domingensis, 

 this is no doubt specifically distinct. It is a more slender shell, with 

 rounded, convex whorls, narrowly horizontal below the suture, var- 

 ices smaller but more spinose; with six intervariceal costae that are 

 crossed by alternating spiral cords, the larger of which where they 

 pass over the costae form compressed nodes, about twelve to each 

 rib. The smooth embryonic shell consists of two trochoidal whorls 

 that are but slightly convex, and much less oblique than in M . dom- 

 ingensis. 



Length 42, diam. 23 mm. 



Length 36, diam. 18.4 mm. (Type of M . antillarum Gabb.) 



There was an error in Gabb's measurements. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Trophon dominicensis Gabb. Plate XXVIII, figs. 2, 3. 



Trophon dominicensis Gabb. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. XV, 1873 p. 202. 

 Murex dominicensis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, 1896, p. 313. 



Whorls seven, strongly angular, the axial ribs armed on the shoul- 

 der with a hollow spine; above the shoulder they are inflated and 

 elevated above the suture. Above, and a short distance below the 

 carina, the surface is smooth, except for a few very fine lines that are 

 visible under the lens. Below there are conspicuous spiral cords. 



Length 17.5, diam. 11 mm. (including spines). 



Type no. 3252 A. N. S. P. 



Probably Murex (Trophon) werneri Toula, Jahrb. k. k. geol. Reich- 

 sanstalt lxi, 1911, p. 479, pi. 29, figs. 9a, b, should be added to the 

 synonymy of T. dominicensis. 



Muricidea striata Gabb. Plate XXVIII, fig. 7. 



Muricidea striata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 203. 



Resembles M. spinulosa Heilprin (M. heilprini Cossmann) from 

 the Oligocene of Ballast Point, in general appearance, but is much 

 smaller and less elongate; the spire and anterior canal are shorter, 

 the latter being more recurved; also less spinose. 



Length 12.3, diam. 7.2 mm. 



Type no. 3249 A. N. S. P. 



Typhis alatus Sowerby. 



Typhis alatus Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 48, pi. 10, fig. 4. 



Represented by only one immature specimen, no. 3250. 



Typhis obesus Gabb. Plate XXVIII, figs. 5, C. 



Typhis obesus Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 203. Dall, Proc U. 



S. N. M. xix, p. 313. 

 Typhis alatus var. obesus Dall, Trans. Wagner Free Inst, iii, p. 151. 



The type, a single perfect specimen, no. 3251, measures: length 

 24.8, diam. 18 mm. Whether it is to be considered a variety of T. 

 alatus depends upon the finding of specimens of intermediate form. 

 The Bowden (Jamaica) series seems to fall into a longer and a shorter 

 race, both smaller than those of Santo Domingo, but of similar shape. 



Coralliophila abbreviata (Lam.) 



Muricidea lata Gabb, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 203. 



Gabb's two specimens seem to be identical with this well known 

 recent West Indian species. The type of M. lata is no. 3248 A. N. 

 S. P. 



Thais santodomingensis Pils. and Johns. Plate 28, figs. 8, 9. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 169. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Cymia henekeni Maury. 



Cuma tectum Kiener, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 214. 

 Cymia woodii (Gabb), in part, Dall, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., iii, p. 154. 

 Cymia woodii Gabb, Maury, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (2), xv, p. 82. 

 Cymia henekeni Maury, Bull Amer. Pal. v, p. 104. 



This is a variable species, as the figures given show, but careful 

 comparisons of the series of over 100 specimens with the type of 

 Cymia woodii (Gabb) , from the Shiloh Miocene, convince us that the 

 Santo Domingo species is distinct. The Miocene species has more 

 even spiral sculpture, a rounded periphery, and none of the peri- 

 pheral tubercles, which are present on some part of every specimen 

 of henekeni. 



In addition to the generic synonyms of Cymia given by Dall (Tr. 

 Wagn. Free Inst. Sci. iii, 154), we may mention Cumopsis Rovereto, 

 Atti Soc. Ligust. Sc. Nat. e Geogr., X, 1899, p. 105. C. tectum may 

 be taken as type. 



Cymia woodii is probably a derivative from C. henekeni, being the 

 last member of the genus in Atlantic waters. 



Cymia henekeni tectiformis n. subsp. Plate XXVIII, figs. 11, 12. 

 Cuma tectum Gabb, I. c. in part. 



The shell is similar to C. henekeni as far as the middle of the pen- 

 ult whorl, where larger tubercles appear at the peripheral angle. 

 On the last whorl there are about 8 such tubercles, those on the back 

 being very prominent and widely spaced. Above the periphery 

 there are many spirals, and below it the spiral striation is under-laid by 

 about six low spiral ridges. Dense growth-striae as in C. henekeni. 



Alt. 46, diam. 30 mm. Type; PI. XXVIII, figs. 11, 12, no. 2794. 



Alt. 45, diam. 32.5 mm. 



A very large specimen, length 54.4 mm., has but six large tubercles 

 on the last whorl. As the tubercles become progressively more 

 widely spaced, the addition of a half whorl to the usual size de- 

 creases the number. 



While the adult stage is conspicuously different, the half grown 

 and young specimens are not distinguishable from C. henekeni. The 

 two forms were mingled in Gabb's collection. 



This form is superficially like C. tectum; but that recent Panamic 

 species differs from all of the fossils by having comparatively few, 

 flat spirals, parted by narrow, deeply ejigraved grooves. The col- 

 umellar plait also, is heavier and more prominent. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



CYMATIIDAE. 



Cymatium pileare (Lamarck) 



Tritonium (Lampusia) lineatum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, 

 p. 211. 



The two shells are identical with recent specimens. 



Cymatium domingense (Gabb) Plate XXIX, fig. 2. 



Tritonium (Ranularia) domingense Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, 

 p. 212. 



This species approaches C. vespaceum (Lam.) in many respects, 

 but the more convex whorls, the prominent varices on the whorls of 

 the spire, where there are also more numerous vertical ribs, are 

 differential characters. Moreover, the embryonic shell is more de- 

 pressed, the post-embryonic whorls enlarge more rapidly, forming 

 a far thicker spire. The anterior canal is noticeably shorter. 



Length 28.7, diam. 16 mm. 



The type and a smaller specimen are no. 3226 A. N. S. P. 



Cymatium prsefemorale Maury. 



Tritonium femorale Linn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 213. 



Five specimens, the largest 10 cm. long. 



Distorsio constrictus simillimus (Sowerby) 



Triton simillimus Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 48. 



Distortia simillimus Sby., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 212,. 



Distortio simillimus Sby., Gabb, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., viii, p. 353. 



The Santo Domingan form, which was named Triton simillimus 

 by Sowerby, equals the recent D. constrictus in form and size (length 

 60 to 65 mm), but differs by having the spiral threads and striae 

 between the spiral cords more conspicuous. The length of the an- 

 terior canal varies a good deal; when short it is often more reflexed. 

 Except in the detail of sculpture mentioned, this form is identical 

 with the recent D. constrictus. 



Bowden specimens are smaller, with fewer minute spirals. The 

 form reported by Gabb from the Pliocene of Costa Rica is entirely 

 like the Santo Domingan examples. 



D. gatunensis Toula, from the Gatun formation, has fewer and 

 smaller spiral threads among the striae of the intervals, but is other- 

 wise identical with the Santo Domingo race in adult sculpture; but 

 it differs specifically by the larger embryonic shell, as stated by 

 Brown and Pilsbry 20 . 



The genus Distorsio seems to have had its inception in the early 



20 Proc A. N. S. Phila. 1911, p. 356. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



357 



Eocene of the Gulf or mid-American littoral. The D. septemden- 

 tatus of Gabb, a Lower Claibornian species of Texas, corresponds 

 perfectly with what, on theoretical grounds, the earliest form of the 

 genus should be. 



It would seem that the groups Ranularia, Lampusia, and Dis- 

 torsio, diverged about this time from a common stock. D. septem- 

 dentatum is but slightly distorted. The irregular bulging of the 

 whorls, correllated with the rise and fall of the sutures and conse- 

 quent alternate widening and contraction of the' body chamber, 

 has just begun, and is yet far less strongly developed than in any 

 later species. The spreading callus, which masks the front in re- 

 cent forms, has not appeared. The teeth are small, and the mouth 

 not contracted in a grimace. The sculptural features of Distorsio 

 are present, but the earlier whorls retain those of other small Eo- 

 cene Tritons. 



Acceleration along the lines foreshadowed in D. septemdentatus 

 rapidly ensued, typical Distorsios appearing in the Vicksburg Oli- 

 gocene. We may suppose that the group spread westward through 

 the open strait between the Americas, and the swimming Sinusigera- 

 like larvae, caught in the Equatorial current, were carried to the 

 West Indies. In southern Europe the genus appeared in the middle 

 Miocene, but whether derived from America or the eastern seas is 

 doubtful. 



Of the recent species, D. anus (L.),the type of Distorsio, has 

 strongly defined characters, everywhere recognized. The others 

 have suffered great vicissitudes in nomenclature, and in order to 

 determine the status of the Oligocene forms a revision of the specific 

 nomenclature was undertaken. The following names and probably 

 some others, have been proposed in the group: 



1807 Distortrix reticulata Link, Beschr. Rostock Samml, 122. 



Murex cancellinus Lam., Ann. du Mus. n, p. 225. 



Distorta acuta Perry, Conchology, pi. 10, fig. 1. 



Murex mulus Dillwyn, Catal. n, p. 704. 



Murex tortuosus Borson, Mem. Reale Accad. Sci. Torino, xxvi, p. 306, 



1. fig.4. 



Triton clathratus Lam., Anim. s. Vert, ix, p. 186. 



Triton personatum M. de Serres, Geogn. Terr. Tert., p. 118, pi. 3, fig. 

 11, 12. 

 1833 Triton constrictus Broderip, P. Z. S., p. 5. 



Triton ridens Reeve, Conch. Icon., fig. 46. 



Triton decipiens Reeve, 1. c. fig. 102. 



Triton crassidens Conrad, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. I. 118, pi. 11, fig. 40. 



Triton simillimus Sowerby, Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, vi, 48. 



Triton subclathratum d'Orbigny, Prodr. Pal. Fr., Ill, 77, 175. 



Distorsio pusilla Pease, P. Z. S. p. 397. 



1809 

 1811 

 1817 

 1821 

 pi. 

 1822 

 1829 



1844 

 1844 

 1848 

 1849 

 1852 

 1860 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



1860 Dislorsio septemdentata Gabb, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., iv, p. 380, pi. 



67, fig. 21. 

 1873 Triton grasi (Bellardi), in d'Anconi, Malac. Plioc. Ital. II, p. 70, pi. 



16, fig. 1. 

 1909 Distorsio gatunensis Tuola, Jahrb. K,-K. Geol. Reichsanst. lviii, 1908, 



p. 700, pi. 25, fig. 10. 



Recent monographers have lumped all the living forms under one 

 or other of the above names, but there seem to be three or four 

 valid species among them. The principal synonomy of the recent 

 forms is given below; that of the European Miocene species has 

 been duly set forth by Bellardi. 21 



Distorsio reticulata Link. Includes acuta Perry, cancellinus 

 Lam. (?), mulus Dillw., pusilla Pse., cancellinus Reeve. 



This species is the common Indo-Pacific form. Its chief, and so 

 far as we know, invariable character is the presence of a prominent 

 and somewhat gibbous bilirate ridge or keel at the shoulder, on the back 

 of the shell. 



The strong entering fold on the upper part of the parietal wall 

 is more distant from the oblong tubercle above it than in the 

 Antillean species, and the typical form has a wider sinus on the 

 columella, and less prominent third tooth within the outer lip. 

 Reeve's figure of cancellinus (Conch. Icon. pi. 12, fig. 45) well re- 

 presents the face of the shell. 



The Murex cancellinus, attributed to Roissy by various authors, 

 was originally described by Lamarck, the account in Sonnini's 

 Buffon being merely a repetition. Lamarck described the shell as 

 a Grignon fossil, but there cannot be much doubt that it was either 

 a stray bleached example of one of the recent species or the European 

 Miocene D. tortuosum. As he refers to Martini's figures, those 

 who used the name for the recent D. reticulata are not without 

 justification; but in view of the uncertainty attending it, and its 

 later date than Link's name, it had better be placed in the syn- 

 onymy. No later author has recorded M. cancellinus, or any 

 Distorsio, from the Parisian Eocene. 



D. decipiens(Rve.) is a smaller form with reddish apertural 

 callus and a series of four short folds on the parietal wall above, in 

 place of the two large ones of typical reticulata. The third tooth 

 of the lip is prominent; the back angular as in reticulata. While it 

 may turn out to be a subspecies of D. reticulata, the differential 

 characters are constant in the small series examined. 



21 1 Moll. Ter. Terz. Piemonte e della Liguria, I, 231. 






1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Distorsio clathrata (Lamarck). This is the ordinary Antillean 

 species, and has no synonyms except the several misapplications 

 of names really pertaining to the Eastern species, unless Triton 

 ridens of Reeve belongs here, which we are unable to determine in 

 the absence of information on its sculpture. 



It differs from the Oriental species (reticulata) in the evenly 

 rounded back of the last whorl, sculptured with regularly spaced 

 spirals. It is not keeled at the shoulder and the lirae are not con- 

 tiguous there. The two folds on the parietal wall posteriorly are 

 much more nearly contiguous than in reticulata: the third tooth 

 within the outer lip is prominent, and the columellar sinus is deep 

 and narrow- Kiener's figures of a specimen from Lamarck's col- 

 lection are characteristic. (Icon. Coq. Viv., Triton, pi. 14, fig. 1.) 



So far as we know this species does not occur in the Miocene of 

 Santo Domingo; but in the doubtless somewhat later Bowden 

 Miocene a small, but otherwise practically typical race occurs, 

 which has been figured by Guppy as "Persona simillima Sowb." 

 (Quarterly Jour. Geol. Soc. XXII, 288, pi. 17, f. 13.) 



Distorsia constricta (Broderip), ( Triton constrictus Brod., P. Z. S. 

 1833, p. 5), is similar to D. reticulata in the angular back, this form 

 is more like D. clathrata in the aperture. At the peripheral angle 

 there are two contiguous spiral cords; below these are about ten spi- 

 rals, and above them only one. The intervals between spiral cords 

 have fine spiral striae. 



The third tooth of the outer lip is enlarged; the two posterior 

 folds of the parietal wall are rather near together, as in Distorsio 

 clathrata. 



The recent form belongs to the Panamic fauna. It was doubtless 

 derived from the Antillean tertiary fauna where the stock is now 

 extinct. 



The first recognized member of the series is D. crassidens Con- 

 rad, 22 of the Vicksburg Oligocene. This is small, and differs from 

 the recent forms by having many unequal spiral threads and 

 striae in the intervals between the spiral cords. Its genetic rela- 

 tion to the. later Miocene D. c. simillima and the recent D. con- 



22 Triton crassidens Conr., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I, 1848, p. 118, pi. 11, 

 fig. 40. 

 Distortrix crassidens Conr., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vii, 1854, p. 31. 

 Distorlio eras sidens Conr., Amer. Journ. Conch. I, 1865, p. 20. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



stricta might perhaps be expressed best by a trinomial name, D. 

 constricta crassidens. 



Bursa bufoniopsis Maury. 

 Bursa amphitrites Maury. 



See: Bull. Amer. Pal. v, pp. 108, 109. 



Tritoniurn commutatum Dkr., Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 211. 



These two forms of the B. affinis group were not differentiated 

 in the Gabb collection, though both are present. 



Bursa crassa proavus n. subsp. Plate XXIX, figs. 4, 5. 



Bursa crassa Desh., Gabb., Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 212. 



The shell differs from B. crassa (Dillw.) by the broader form and 

 more strongly developed granulation ; the anal sinus is more oblique and 

 shorter, its end is not so high as the summit of the varix behind it. 

 The smooth embryonic shell is Naticoid, while that of B. crassa has 

 a more elevated and conic spire. 



Length 25, diam. 19 mm.; 33^ embryonic and 3^ later whorls. 



Type no. 3227 A. N. S. P. 



The Bowden form of B. crassa 23 is that which approaches the 

 present form most closely, having similar coarse granulation; but 

 it differs by the more conic embryonic stage, and at all stages of 

 growth the anal canal is longer and more direct. It may be called 

 Bursa crassa bowdenensis n. subsp., PI. XXIX, fig. 8. Type no. 3747 

 A. N. S. P. 



In the recent form the granulation is perceptibly finer, or often 

 subobsolete on the last whorl, and another character has come in; 

 in the most progressive examples the peripheral tubercles disappear 

 and one or two intervariceal nodules take their place. 



CASSIDIDAE. 



Cassis sulcifera Sowerby. 



Cassis sulcifera Sowb., Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vi, 47, pi. 10, fig. 7, 1849. 

 Gabb, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, xv, 222. 



An ancestral form of C. tuber osa L., from which it differs chiefly 

 by the smaller size and the stronger axial riblets, which almost 

 disappear, however, in the largest adults. Sowerby 's figure was 

 from a young specimen. Old ones become triangular, in an apical 

 view, by the predominance of a dorsal tubercle. The largest ex- 

 ample measures: 



Length 90, diam. 80 mm. 



23 Ranella crassa Dillw., Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, p. 288, pi. 18, fig. 9. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



In three peculiar specimens with hypertrophic ventral callus 

 the width exceeds the length. They occurred in a series of 25 normal 

 adult shells. 



Cassis (Cypraecassis) testiculus (L). 



Cypraecassis testiculus Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 222. 

 Three rather small specimens 33 to 35. 5 mm. long. In one the 

 spiral grooves appear only around the base, the axial folds being 

 smooth. 



Cassis inflata monilifera Guppy. 



Cassidea granulosa Gabb, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, xv, 222, 1873. 

 Cassis monilifera Guppy, Quar. Jour. Geol. Soc, xxii, 287, pi. 17, fig. 8. 



This form is almost exactly intermediate between C. inflata 

 granulosa of the Antillean fauna and C. abbreviata of the Panamic 

 region, and may well have been their common progenitor. It has 

 the somewhat coronated whorls of abbreviata, there being two 

 prominent granose spirals at the shoulder. The rest of the body- 

 whorl, in the Santo Domingo shells, is granose at the intersect- 

 ions of narrow vertical folds with the spirals, in small examples, vary- 

 ing to nearly free from longitudinal sculpture in some large ones; and 

 irregularly plicate but not granose in others. The smooth embryonic 

 shell is perhaps a little smaller and shorter than in the Pacific C. 

 abbreviata, similar to that of C. granulosa. 



Sconsia laevigata (Sowerby) 



Cassidaria laevigata Sowb., Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, vi. 47, pi. 10, fig. 2. 1849. 

 Cassidaria laevigata Sowb., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 222. 



The Santo Domingo form is closely related to S. lintea, a local 

 lateral branch which left no descendants. It differs from S. lintea of 

 the Vicksburg beds only in being free from spiral sculpture in the 

 middle, in the absence of a coronal series of slight pointed tubercles 

 or folds, usually developed in S. lintea, and in attaining a more 

 ponderous growth. The young shells, being striate throughout, are 

 indistinguishable. The Pliocene and Recent S. striata is more coarse- 

 ly sculptured than any laevigata, and does not become so broad. 



The Jamaican S. subloevigata is intermediate between lintea and 

 striata in character, but nearer the latter, of which it may fairly be 

 reckoned a subspecies. 



The genus Sconsia Gray has an interesting history in the 

 American tertiaries, wherein both its origin and development are 

 revealed. The series begins in the Claibornian Eocene with S. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



nupera (Conrad), 24 which varies so markedly toward Cassis (Pho- 

 lium) brevicostatus Conr., that it is evident the two are but slightly 

 divergent mutations of a common ancestor. In S. nupera the den- 

 ticulation of the lip and columella is but weakly developed; varices 

 are present but not strong; the columellar callus is adnate, the si- 

 phon as much recurved as in some Eocene species of Phalium, and 

 the siphonal fasciole moderately prominent. The initial whorl 

 is smaller than in later forms, but the whole embryonic shell is 

 more globose. A direct descendant of S. nupera appears to be S. 

 hodgei Conr., in the Miocene of Duplin Co., North Carolina, which 

 is modified chiefly by the loss of a convex siphonal fasciole. 



A lateral branch from S. nupera leads to S. lintea Conr., of the 

 Vicksburg Oligocene, which differs from the parent stock mainly in 

 the more slender embryonic shell. From S. lintea probably arose 

 S. laevigata Sowb.,of the Santo Domingo beds, and S. sublaevigata 

 Guppy, of the still later Bowden bed: The latter leads directly to 

 the recent Antillean 8. striata through the intermediate Pliocene 

 form of Costa Rica. 



Sconsia therefore branched from the Phalium stock of Cassididae 

 in the early Eocene, and its progress has been marked by the re- 

 duction of the columellar callus, shortening of the anterior siphon 

 and loss of a convex siphonal fasciole. It is not allied to Morio, as 

 Fischer held. 



The mutation series may be graphically represented thus : 



Recent, Antillean Province S. striata C. inflata & var. granulosa 



I I 



Pliocene, Costa Rican S. striata sublaevigata C. inflata granulosa 



Miocene, S. hodgei j .C. caelata | 



. C. inflata monilif era 

 . . C. inflata monilif era 



I Bowden . 



| Santo Domingan. 



Oligocene, Vicksburgian . 



.S. striata sublaevigata 

 IS. I. laevigata 



\ / 



S. lintea C. caelatura 



/ / 



Eocene, Claibornian. .S. nupera -\-brevicoslata. .C. taitit 



\ / I 



Subgenus Sconsia — Subgenus Phalium 



On the right side, the ancestry of the modern Cassis (Phalium) 

 inflata is indicated, but with no attempt to arrange the other species, 



u Cassis nuperus Conr., Fossil Shells of the Tertiary Formations of North Am- 

 erica. Vol. I, no. 4, p. 46, October 1833. Buccinum sowerbyi Lea, Cont. to Geol. 

 p. 164, PI. 5 f. 169, Dec. 1833. Semicassis nuperus Conr., Amer. Jour. Conch. 

 Vol. I, p. 26, 1865. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



which are not known to be represented in the Santo Domingo beds. 

 Phalium, in a slightly generalized form, was already well developed 

 at the dawn of the American marine Eocene as now known; and the 

 differentiation of the main groups of Cassididae apparently took 

 place earlier. 



Morum domingense (Sowerby) 



Oniscia domingensis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 47, pi. 10, fig. 3. 

 Morum domingensis Sowb., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 223. 



This species is closely related to Morum harpula (Conr.), of the 

 Vicksburg Oligocene, but it differs by having the expanded callus 

 of the ventral side much less coarsely granulose, and only the peri- 

 pheral row of sharp tubercles appears upon the whorls of the spire. 

 In M. harpula two such rows are visible. 



Length 36, diam. 22.3 mm. 



DOLIIDAE. 



Malea camura Guppy. 



Malea camura Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, xxii 1866, p. 287, pi. 17, fig. 9. 

 Malea ringens Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 223. 



This is apparently distinct specifically from M . ringens, now liv- 

 ing on the Pacific coast of Central America and Mexico; but camura 

 undoubtedly is ancestral to the living form. The difference is more 

 noticeable in the younger than in the adult individuals. In M. 

 camura the lip is less expanded and flattened, and has a uniform 

 slope toward the interior. The callous projection on the parietal 

 wall is always bilobed, not trilobed as in ringens; the columellar 

 prominence consists of a large bifurcate tooth with a smaller one 

 below it, the latter usually destinctly separated from the former. 



Guppy 's type is a young shell, but all of the Jamaica specimens 

 seem to be much smaller than the larger ones of Santo Domingo 

 and Gatun. Santo Domingo examples measure: 



Length 71, diam.' 55 mm., 4% post-embryonic whorls. 



Length 27.5, diam. 20.5 mm., 2f post-embryonic whorls. 



In specimens of all sizes, the furrows are nearly or quite as wide 

 as the spiral ridges, thus differing from the two forms following. 

 62 examples in the Gabb collection. 



Malea elliptica Pils. and Johns. Plate, XXIX, flg. 3. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 169. 

 Malea goliath Pils. and Johns. PL 29, figs. 1, 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 170. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Probably Malea sp. indet. Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal., V, p. 113. 

 The figures are much reduced in size 



Pyrula pilsbryi B. Smith. 



Ficus papyratia Say, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 223. 

 Pyrula pilsbryi Smith, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1907, p. 213. 



Dr Smith has indicated the differential characters of this species. 



Pyrula carbasea Guppy. 



Ficus mississippiensis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv. Not of Conrad. 

 Pyrula carbasea Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, 1876, p. 580, pi. 26, fig. 7. 



Although Guppy (Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxxiii, 525) subsequent- 

 ly considered his species a synonym of Pyrula mississippiensis, he 

 probably did not actually compare specimens. The two species 

 agree closely in sculpture, the prominent revolving carinae being 

 slightly wider apart in P. carbasea than in P. mississippiensis. The 

 chief difference however is in the apical whorls. P. carbasea has only 

 one smooth, blunt uptilted embryonic whorl, while P. mississippien- 

 sis shows 2\ or 3 regular smooth whorls. Dr. Burnett Smith has 

 illustrated the embryonic whorls of P. mississippiensis in Proc. A. 

 N. S. Phila., 1907, pi. XVII, fig. 5. 



One specimen in the Gabb collection, somewhat broken , measures : 



Length 29, diam. 13 mm. 



CYPRAEIDAE. 



Cypraea dominicensis Gabb. Plate XXX, figs. 7, 8. 



Cypraea dominicensis Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 235. 



The type has the form of C. lurida, being a little produced at both 

 ends. There are 36 teeth on the outer lip, 29 on the inner. 

 Length 39.5, lateral diam. 23.2, dorso-ventral diam. 19 mm. 

 Type is no. 3003 A. N. S. P. 



Cypraea cinerea Gmelin. 



We refer one of the specimens included by Gabb in C. dominicen- 

 sis to this recent species. 



Cypraea isabella Linne (patrespatrix Maury) 



Cypraea isabella L., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 235. 



Two specimens, which present no characters differing from the re- 

 cent shells. The larger one closely resembles a recent C. isabella 

 mexicana Stearns which we compared. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Cypraea henekeni Sowerby. 



Cypraea henikeri Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 45, pi. 9, fig. 3. 

 Cypraea henekeni Sby., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 235. 

 Cypraea henikeni Sowb., var., Brown and Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1911, 

 p. 356, pi. 26, figs. 9, 10. 



This species resembles the recent C. raws, and has parallel var- 

 iations, both having smooth and bicornute or bituberculate forms. 

 In C. henekeni the tuberculate form predominates, and the tubercles 

 are larger, being thus more specialized than the modern race of the 

 same stock. It has been well figured by Sowerby. A variety occurs 

 in the Gatun bed. 



Length 38 to 66 mm. 



Cypraea spurcoides Gabb. Plate XXX, figs. 4, 5. 



Cypraea spurcoides Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 235. 



Gabb has compared it with C. spurca, but of recent species it 

 seems to us closest to large examples of C. annulus in shape. 

 Length 32.8, diam. 20.3 mm. Type no. 2999 A. N. S. P. 

 Length 24, diam. 15.7 mm. 



Cypraea raymondrobertsi n. sp. Plate XXX, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



The shell is subovate in basal outline, solid, with the sides heavily 

 calloused, laterally angular, the callus rising high, especially on the 

 left side, and covering the spire, which is marked by a shallow irregu- 

 lar pit. Ends but little produced. The outer lip has 19 strong teeth, 

 narrower than their intervals. Inner lip with 17 teeth. The base 

 is rather strongly convex. 



Length 27, lateral diam 19.2, dorso-ventral diam. 14.9 mm. 



Somewhat like C. arabicula Lam. by its angular sides, the aper- 

 ture as in C. albuginosa Mawe. 



Type no. 3995 A. N. S. P. 



In the Bowden bed there is a form similar in having angular lat- 

 eral calluses, but differing by having fewer teeth, 16 and 13 on the 

 outer and inner lips respectively. They extend further upon the 

 base, which is less convex. Length 25.5, width 17.3 mm. This form 

 may be called Cypraea raymondrobertsi bowdenensis (PI. XXX, fig. 6). 



Type no. 11146 A. N. S. P. 



Cypraea spurca Linne. 



A series of six. We find no character to differentiate them from 

 recent shells. 



Cypraea campbelliana n. sp. Plate XXX, figs. 9, 10. 



The shell is oblong-oval, but slightly produced at the ends, mod- 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



erately calloused laterally, the callouses dappled with rather small 

 dark spots; dorsal outline evenly arched, spire concealed. Outer 

 lip having 24 teeth. Inner lip with 20 short teeth, not running in- 

 ward as in C. cinerea. In the lower part of the columella an inner 

 series of 5 short teeth ma3 r be seen. 



Length 30.3, lateral diameter 18.7, dorso-ventral diam. 15 mm. 



It is less convex than C. cinerea, the posterior slope of the dorsal 

 outline less abrupt. Moreover, the markings of the lateral cal- 

 louses seem to be of a different character. The teeth are far less 

 numerous than in C. dominicensis. Named for Mr. John Campbell, 

 an enthusiastic student of the Cypraeidae. 



The type and three other specimens are no. 3000 A. N. S. P. 



Pustularia gabbiana (Guppy) 



Piistularia nucleus Linn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 236. Not 



Cypraea nucleus L. 

 Cypraea gabbiana Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxxii, 1876, p. 528, pi. 29, fig. 10. 



While this species has a general resemblance to P. nucleus L., it 

 differs by the following characters: the raised transverse lines 

 which net the tubercles together are more numerous and conspic- 

 uous; the tubercles along the lateral margins are larger; the trans- 

 verse ridges of the base alternate in size, but the smaller ones ter- 

 minate at the margin of the aperture in teeth equal to those ter- 

 minating the larger ridges; the teeth of the columellar side do not 

 extend entirely within the aperture, but end on a sort of projecting 

 ledge, inward from which a latticed-granulose sculpture is seen. 

 Finally, the aperture curves more to the left at the upper end. 



Length 15.4 to 20.2 mm. 



STROMBIDAE. 



S trombus haitensis Sowerby. 



Strombus haitensis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 48, pi. 9, fig. 7. 

 Strombus bituberculatus Lam. in part, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 233. 



While this may be an ancestor of S. bituberculatus, there are con- 

 siderable differences. The spire is much higher, and the spiral 

 striation differs. ' 



Strombus galliformis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXI, figs, 1, 2. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 170. 



Compare S. maoensis Maury, which may be the same. It has a 

 shorter spire, and the lip appears to be unknown. 



Strombus dominator Pils. & Johns. PI. XXXII, figs. 1, 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 171. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



A very large Stromb, approaching S. gigas in size. 



Strombus ambiguus Sowerby, 



Strombus ambiguus Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc. vi, 1849, p. 48. 



Strongly sculptured spirally, narrower than proximus with less 

 developed spines. There are several strong wrinkles on the col- 

 umellar lip posteriorly. 



Strombus ambiguus form bifrons Sowerby 



Strombus bifrons Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 48, pi. 9, fig. 9. 



This form or incipient race, becomes somewhat larger than typ- 

 ical ambiguus; the tubercles of the penult whorl are larger and 

 less numerous. It is therefore a more advanced form, in the accele- 

 ration of this sculptural feature forming a transition to S proximus. 

 It has not the posterior wrinkles of the columellar lip of typical S. 

 ambiguus, and the outer lip is smooth or nearly so within. The 

 external spiral sculpture is strongly developed. 



Length 66, diam. 42. mm. 



Strombus proximus Sowerby. 



Strombus proximus Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi. 1849, p. 48, pi. 9, fig. 8. 

 Strombus pugilis L., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 233. 



In this extremely abundant form, the penult whorl bears fewer 

 and larger tubercles or spines than in S. a. bifrons. In the prevalent 

 form of the race they are larger than on the last whorl. There is 

 almost invariably an inferior series of tubercles on the left side or 

 very rarely continuing to the lip. Typically the surface is spirally 

 striate; but there are transitions to the form having spirals at the 

 base only. The lip is either rugose or almost plain within. The 

 presence of wide, rounded variceal swellings on the antepenult whorl 

 appears to be variable. The maximum length is about 75 mm., but 

 55 to 60 mm. is more usual. 



Strombus proximus pugiloides Guppy. 



Strombus fragilis Moore, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xix, p. 511. 

 Strombus pugiloides Guppy, Geol. Mag. 1874, p. 433. 



The earliest form of this race appeared in the Santo Domingan for- 

 mation in a form smaller than most proximus. The spines have 

 disappeared from the last whorl or half-whorl, and spiral striae are 

 only at the base. The interior of the lip is either smooth or rugose. 

 There are sometimes traces of tubercles of an inferior series. These 

 specimens are transitional between proximus and pugiloides. 



The typical form of pugiloides is that of Bowden. It often shows 

 rufous chevrons on the back, and has invariably a smooth lip. An 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



inferior series of tubercles is never developed. It is also somewhat 

 larger than most Santo Domingan examples. 



S. p. pugiloides may be the ancestor of S. pugilis, or perhaps it is 

 not in the direct line. S. pugilis appears in its typical form in the 

 Pliocene of Florida and Costa Rica 



Strombi of the proximus-group are abundant shells in the Santo 

 Domingan beds. There are about 150 specimens in the Gabb col- 

 lection. 



As a whole, the series differs from S. pugilis and its varieties by 

 having the peripheral series of spines (or when spines are wanting, 

 the rounded shoulder) situated lower on the back of the last whorl, 

 the slope above it longer relative to that below it. This differen- 

 tial character is invariable. Also by the tendency to have an in- 

 ferior series of tubercles. These may be much reduced, or, in some 

 individuals wanting, yet there is never any trace of them in S. pugi- 

 lis. It appears to us that the evolutionary changes of the stock are 

 lost sight of if the forms ambiguus, bifrons, proximus and pugiloides 

 are submerged as synonyms of S. pugilis. Nothing with the char- 

 acters of the recent S. pugilis has been found in the Santo Domingan 

 or Bowden beds. 



Orthaulax inornatus Gabb. Plate XXX, figs. 13, 14. 15. 



Orthaulax inornatus Gabb, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 273, pi. 9, fig. 3, 4, 

 (Feb. 11, 1873). Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 234. Guppy, Q. J. Geol. 

 Soc, 1876, p. 520, pi. 28, fig. 8. Dall, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 90, p. 86, 

 pi. 11, fig. 4. Proc. U. S. N. Mus. LI, 1916, p. 509, pi. 88, fig. 9. 



Gabb selected a specimen of medium size for type (his fig. 3, 

 our PI. XXX, fig. 15). The callus envelopes the spire but does not 

 cover the apex. There is a low longitudinal callous swelling in 

 front of the posterior end of aperture and extending up the spire, 

 and a somewhat more distinct one opposite this on the left side, 

 becoming dorsal on the spire. The shell is thus somewhat com- 

 pressed dorso-ventrally. Anteriorly there are rather weak spirals. 



Length 55, diam. 27, dorso-ventral diam. 21.7 mm. 



The largest specimen (PI. XXX, fig. 14) is injured at the apex and 

 shows no calluses, the outline seen from above being regular, not it 

 flattened dorso-ventrally. 



Length 91.3, diam. 41.7 mm. 



In a young example (Gabb 's fig. 4, our PI. XXX, fig. 13) the su- 

 ture has begun to rise at the beginning of the tenth whorl. The 

 ninth has callous swellings on each side, and is therefore a little flat- 

 tened between face and back. The cavity is also somewhat narrow- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



ed within the last swelling. The whorls of the spire show low, round- 

 ed varices, two or three on each after the first three or four, This 

 specimen is 30.2 mm. long with 9 whorls and a small part of the 

 tenth above. 



Dall 's figure of a fragment of the spire shows a somewhat greater 

 apical angle than either of Gabb's specimens. 



Orthaulax inornatus altilis n. subsp. PI. XXX, figs. 16, 17, 18. 



Four of Gabb's specimens differ from the above by the shorter 

 spire. Possibly they intergrade with the typical form, as this is 

 not a character of much constancy in Strombidae; but in the ab- 

 sence of evidence on this point it may be well to notice this form. 

 PI. XXX, figs. 17,18 represent the largest example. The apex is 

 wholly covered. There is a longitudinal callous hump on the left 

 side opposite the aperture; but as the lip is broken back the hump 

 appears to be dorsal. There are faint traces of a few spirals towards 

 the base. 



Length 52, diam., 28 mm., antero-posterior diam. 29.5 mm. 



A young example of 9 whorls, 27.5 mm. long. (Plate XXX, fig. 

 16), is similar to the young shell described under 0. inornatus ex- 

 cept that the spire is shorter, with fewer varices on the whorls. The 

 last whorl is wider and has not begun to ascend, The lower half 

 of the last whorl has numerous (about 17) spiral grooves defining 

 rather flattened cords. 



Type no. 4065 A. N. S. P. 



TRIPHORIDAE. 



Triphora Eigrocincta C. B. Adams. (?). 



Triphoris nigrocinctus? Adams, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 239. 



We can add nothing to Gabb 's note on the single young specimen 

 of this form. It at least indicates a species of the perversa group and 

 is probably identical with Triforis calypsonis Maury. 



CERITHIIDAE. 



Cerithium microlineatum Gabb. Plate XXXII, figs. 2, 3. 



C. microlineatum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 236. 



The upper whorls show small irregular axial folds. The later ones 

 have a series of low nodes below the suture and fine unequal spirals, 

 part thread-like, part wider, the principal ones granulose. The 

 last whorl has one low, broad varix, the earlier ones rather numerous 

 varices at irregular intervals. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Length 50, diam 18.5 mm. (Type). 



It seems to have reached a length of about 60 mm. or more. Re- 

 sembles somewhat the figure of C. caloosaense var. heilprini Dall, 

 of the Floridian Pliocene. 



Type and nine other specimens no. 2597 A. N. S. P. 



Cerithium turriculum Gabb. Plate XXXIII, figs. 1, 2, 8.. 



C. turriculum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 238. 



Sculpture of strong axial folds, angular at the shoulder, on the 

 median whorls; earlier whorls have lower folds, not angular, and 

 the last whorl has very short folds next the suture. Spiral striation 

 of unequal threads. The broken type specimen figured is 24 mm. 

 long, and has twelve folds on the last whorl. 



The sculpture varies a good deal among the 23 examples. 



This is probably an ancestral form of the more robust C. moenensis 

 Gabb, from the Pliocene of Costa Rica. 



Type no. 4067; 22 other specimens no. 4068 A. N. S. P. 



Cerithium dominicense Gabb. Plate XXXIII. figs. 3, 4. 



Cerithium dominicense Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873. p. 328. 



The last 2| whorls have prominent rounded tubercles below the 

 suture, about 9 on a whorl. Below these there are about 6 tuber- 

 culiferous cords on the last whorl, with finer, unequal threads in 

 their intervals. The earlier whorls have axial folds crossed by 4 or 

 5 principal spiral cords; at first every third fold is somewhat larger, 

 then every fourth ; but on the last three whorls such variceal folds 

 do not appear. None of the specimens has a perfect aperture. 



Length 25.7, diam. about 11 mm. 



Type and three other specimens no. 2594 A. N. S P. 



Cerithium uniseriale Sowerby. Plate XXXIII, figs. 16, 20. 



Cerithium uniseriale Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 51. Not of Guppy. 



One specimen, broken at the aperture, has the characters called 

 for by Sowerby 's diagnosis. It is related to C. obesum Gabb, but 

 there is a band of low tubercles below the suture, separated from the 

 principal series by a depression, and the spiral striation is coarser, 

 uneven, with some weakly granose spirals. 



We believe that Gabb's identification of this species is correct. 

 Guppy 's interpretation (Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxxn, pi. 29, fig.4) is 

 not in accord with Sowerby 's diagnosis. It is C. obesum ventricos- 

 ior. C. obesum of Guppy, tab. cit. f. 9, may be a young C. simplex 

 Gabb, though this is not certain. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



C. uniseriale is an obesely conic shell. There is an infra-sutural 

 series of rather short axial folds, interrupted by a spiral depression 

 or concavity, the folds stronger below it. On the last whorl the 

 folds are smaller than on the penult. About every fourth or fifth 

 fold is stronger on the penult whorl. The surface is rather finely 

 striate spirally, and on the last whorl there are several low cords 

 which are weakly tuberculate, and there is a variceal swelling op- 

 posite the aperture. The last half whorl is broken away. There is 

 a strong callous ridge at the posterior part of the inner lip, as in C. 

 obesum. As broken the single specimen (no. 2595) measures, length 

 23, diam. 11 mm. 



This form stands near C. obesum, but differs by the impression 

 below the suture and the coarser spirals of the last whorl. 



Cerithium obesum Gabb. Plate XXXIII. figs. 5, 6. 



Cerithium obesum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 237. 



Gabb's description is somewhat elastic, drawn to cover several 

 forms which he included under obesum, but several phrases apply 

 to only one specimen of the type lot: " Outer lip effuse, internally 

 thickened. Length 1 inch, diameter .5 inch" "expanded lip". 

 These phrases must have had in view the specimen shown in our 

 plate XXXIII, figs. 5, 6, since this is the only one in the lot which 

 retains any part of the outer lip, and agrees in size. It measures 

 24 mm. long, 12.5 wide, aperture 11.8 mm. long. The last whorl 

 rises conspicuously in its last third. The last three whorls have 

 rounded tubercles below the suture, very small and weak on the 

 antepenult. The whole surface is covered with a fine, nearly even 

 spiral striation. Eight whorls are present, the apex being slightly 

 worn. The basal part of the lip is broken. 



Type no. 2596 A. N. S. P.; some 13 immature or broken examples- 

 varying in tuberculation, are no. 2596 a. 



Cerithium obesum ventricosior n. var. Plate XXXIII, figs. 9, 10, 11, 12, 

 Cerithium uniseriale Guppy, not Sowerby. 

 The shell differs from C. obesum by the wider angle of the spire 

 and relatively large last whorl. This obese form is represented by 

 numerous examples, all having the last third or half of the last whorl 

 broken away. It seems to be what Guppy has figured as C. uniser- 

 iale Sowb. 2 ' 



25 Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxxn, pi. 29, fig. 4. Maury, Bull. Am. Pal., 29, p. 

 124, pi. 21, figs. 14, 15. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



The infrasutural tubercles are seen on two to four whorls, but 

 they are very weak except in the last whorl, or sometimes the last 

 two. They may disappear for a half whorl, to reappear later. In 

 some examples there are only weak traces of tubercles, and these 

 appear to form a transition to C. gurabense Maury. In all there is a 

 minute but distinct spiral striation, either nearly even, or sometimes 

 about every eighth thread is slightly larger. 



Length as broken 27, diam. 13 mm. Type no. 4074, figs. 10-12. 



Length as broken 26, diam. 11.5 mm. Fig. 9. 



The loss of the last half whorl makes the diameter much less 

 than in a perfect shell. 



A peculiar specimen, no. 4075, in which the last whorl is rather 

 short and rounded, and the subsutural tubercles very small, is photo- 

 graphed in Plate XXXIII, figs. 18, 19. It is a young shell, perhaps 

 referable to C. o. ventricosior . 



Length 25, diam. 13 mm.; 8 whorls. 



Cerithium obesum harrisi n. var. Plate xxxm, figs. 14, 15. 



A variety which may be called harrisi, was found among unas- 

 sorted shells. It seems to be a degenerate form, perhaps from an 

 unfavorable station. It is smaller, narrower, covered with slightly 

 unequal spiral striae; there are about 6 tubercles on the back of the 

 last whorl. The suture rises steeply towards the aperture. 



Length 22, greatest diam. 9.4, antero-posterior diam. 7.6 mm.; 

 10^ whorls. 



Type no. 4073 A. N. S. P. 



Cerithium (obesum?) gurabense Maury. Plate xxxm, figs. 13, 17. 



In another form the size is about the same as the last, but alter- 

 nate threads are granose. On the last whorl there are infrasutural 

 tubercles, on those preceding, two series of enlarged granules. This 

 appears to be C. gurabense Maury. 



Length as broken 20 mm. ; diam. 7.5 mm. 



Cerithium simplex Gabb. Plate xxxm, fig. 7. 



Cerithium simplex Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 238. 

 ? Cerithium obesum Gabb, Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxxii, 1876, p. 519, pi. 29, 

 fig. 9. Not of Gabb. 



A species of simple, conic form, without varices on the later whorls, 

 though some very low, inconspicuous ones may be seen on the upper. 

 It is spirally grooved, the intervals slightly convex and very unequal, 

 not in the least granose. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3/3 



The aperture is broken. Columella concave, truncate at base. 

 No callus on the inner lip above. An isolated species. 

 Length 26, diam. 12.7 mm.; 8£ whorls remaining. 

 Type and five others, no. 2604 A. N. S. P. 



Cerithium (?) venustum Gabb. Plate XXXII, ng. 4. 



? Cerithium venustum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 238. 



Sculpture of numerous axial folds, tuberculate at the intersections 

 of three low, equal spiral cords, and a narrower one close below the 

 suture. There are some spiral threads between the cords. There 

 are low, rounded varices on the last six whorls, all being on one side 

 of the shell, one varix on a whorl. 



The type, no. 2598 A. N. S. P., is broken at both ends. No other 

 specimen was found. 



Length 29, diam. 7 mm.; 10| whorls remaining. 



Gabb questioned the genus. It is perhaps impossible without 

 the aperture to define its relations. 



Clava plebeia (Sowerby) 



Cerithium plebeiwn Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 51, Guppy, xxii, 

 1866, p. 290, pi. 16, fig. 9 (not good). 



An abundant species, perhaps ancestral to the West American 

 C. gemmata (Hinds). 



Clava has been placed between Drillia and Mangilia in Bull. Amer. 

 Pal. V, p. 57. 



Potamides haitensis (Dall) 



Pyrazisinus ? haitensis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, p. 319, pi. 29, fig. 8. 

 A single mutilated specimen. No. 3197 A. N. S. P. 



Potamides prismaticus (Gabb). Plate XXIX, fig. 12. 



Cerithium prismaticum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 236. 



Represented by one imperfect shell, no. 2601 A. N. S. P., measur- 

 ing, length 57.3, diam. 28 mm. It is well distinguished by the 

 short, heavy ribs or nodes and the deep, "square-cut groove below 

 the suture". Length of the broken specimen 57.3 mm. 



Potamides suprasulcatus (Gabb) Plate xxix, figs. 10, 11. 



Cerithium suprasulcatum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv. 1873, p. 236. 

 Potamides ormei Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. v, p. 126. 



The early whorls have three spiral ridges cut into granules by 

 longitudinal sulcations (fig. 10). The space between the upper and 

 the second spiral ridge is deeper than the other spaces, and on the 

 later whorls it becomes a deep, square-cut furrow, defining the su- 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



tural cingulus. It is this stage which Miss Maury described as P. 

 ormei. The longitudinal sulcations disappear on the last two or 

 three whorls, which are not granose. The base has several shallow 

 spiral grooves. 



Length 29.5, diam. 17.3 mm.; 5 whorls remaining. 



Type and 13 others no. 2600 A. N. S. P. 



All of the 14 specimens have been more or less rolled and worn, 

 probably indicating that we have to do with an estuarine snail which 

 had been washed out into the beds of marine deposition. 



Potamides roumaini Pils. (Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1910, p. 487, from 

 between Las Caobas and Hinche, Haiti, W. W. Webster and Ed- 

 mond Roumain) is a smaller and narrower species than P. supra- 

 sulcatus, with stronger spiral sculpture.. Length 24, diam. 13 mm. 

 Type no. 1314 A. N. S. P. 



Potamides caobasensis Pilsbry. 



Potamides caobasensis Pils. Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1910, p. 488. 

 The shell is smooth, the whorls prominent below the suture. Length 

 (broken) 23 mm. Type no. 2603 A. N. S. P. Not collected by Gabb. 



Potamides dentilabris (Gabb) Plate XXIX, figs. 6, 7. 



Cerithium dentilabre Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 237. 



This shell resembles the East Indian P. palustris (L.). There are 

 four spiral cords about equal to their intervals running over small 

 axial folds and an occasional rounded varix about double the size 

 of the folds. Coincident with the varices, two lip-teeth are formed 

 internally, and there is also a callous fold on the parietal wall. Col- 

 umella has a strong oblique plait. Probably none of this armature 

 would be visible in an entire adult shell, but it is exposed in the 

 fossils, most of which are broken back to the last varix. All have 

 been rolled, and probably were washed out of a lagoon or estuary. 



Length 49.5, diam. 21 mm.; 8 whorls remaining. 



Type and six other specimens no. 2502 A. N. S. P. 



Potamides gastrodon Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXII, figs. 5, 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 171. 



This species differs from P. transecta Dall, of the Tampa Silex bed, 

 in details of sculpture, having three instead of four main spirals on 

 each whorl, nodules at the intersections of the axial riblets, and a 

 very prominent varix on the left of the last whorl. The type has 

 a weak thread dividing the spiral interstices on the last whorl. In 

 other specimens of the lot these secondary spirals are well developed. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



Bittium yaquense (Gabb) Plate XXXV, fig. 12. 



Cerithium yaquensis Gabb, Trans Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 238. 



There are about two varices on a whorl. On the spire there are 

 vertical rounded ribs between the varices, but these disappear on 

 the last one or two whorls. The whole shell is spirally striate. In- 

 side there are short spiral lirae within the varices. 



Length 10, diam. 3.8 mm.; 9 whorls remaining. 



Length 9, diam. 3.1 mm.; 11 whorls. 



Type no. 2619 A. N. S. P. 



The type figure is from a shell not quite mature. Most of the 

 specimens are either immature or somewhat broken. 



Bittium asperoides Gabb. Plate XXXV, fig. 4, 



Bittium asperoides Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv. 1873, p. 239. 



There are four spiral threads on each whorl, with another visible 

 in the suture, and on the last two whorls traces of one or two faint 

 ones between the major threads. Base with six equal spiral threads. 

 On the penult whorl there are 15 axial ribs, counting the two varices. 



Length 4.1, di?m. 1.4 mm.; aperture 0.85 mm.; 11 whorls. 



Type no. 2616 A. N. S. P. It is an abundant species. 



In a form which we take to be a variety (var. asperandum) there 

 are more spiral threads, 8 between sutures, and slenderer, more num- 

 erous and more arcuate ribs, about 19 on the penult whorl. Length 

 2.8, diam. 0.95, aperture 7 mm.; 11 whorls. 



Type no. 3100 A. N. S. P. 



Alabina canaliculata (Gabb) Plale XXXV, fig. 2. 



Bittium canaliculatum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 239. 



Shell imperforate, rather thin, turrited. The sculpture consists 

 of even, rounded, backwardly arched ribs which scarcely pass over 

 the periphery of the last whorl, the base being sculptured with about 

 seven spiral cords, the lower ones very weak. The suture is very 

 deeply impressed, the channel mentioned by Gabb being extremely 

 narrow. In the type specimen there is a low varix at the beginning 

 of the last whorl. Columellar margin reflected above. 



Length 3.3, diam. 1.25 mm.; aperture 0.85 mm.; 10 whorls. 



Length 4.6, diam. 1.6 mm.; 10^ whorls. (Type). 



Type no. 2618 A. N. S. P. 



Bittium (Styliferina) cerithidoides Dall, differs from this species 

 by its carinate upper whorls. 



In some of the specimens one or two weak spiral cords may be 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



seen below the suture, or even very faintly in the intercostal spaces 

 over the whole last whorl, about 6 above the periphery. In the 

 type and most others the ribbed portion shows no spirals. 



Alabina angustior n. sp. Plate XXXV, flg. 3. 



The shell is decidedly narrower, with fewer axial ribs, about 14 on 

 the last whorl. Base with about 6 spiral cords, the lower ones very 

 weak. Otherwise like A. canaliculata. 



Length 3, diam. 1 mm.; 10 whorls. 



Type no. 4062 A. N. S. P. 



LITIOPIDAE. 



Alaba maoensis (Gabb) Plate XXXV, flg. 11. 



Cerithium maoensis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 239. 



The type has lost the tip of the spire, and the last whorl is broken. 

 The whorls are strongly convex, with sculpture of grooves separating 

 low, convex spirals, about 13 grooves on the penult whorl. There 

 is a broad rounded varix on each whorl. 



Length 10, diam. 4.7 mm.; nearly 9 whorls remaining. 



Type no. 2617 A. N. S. P. 



MODULIDAE. 

 Modulus sp. undet. 



This genus is represented by a young shell 6 mm. in diameter, 

 and a fragment of the spire of another. They differ from M. catenu- 

 latus by wanting the low radial plications of that species. It is 

 evidently close to M. wilcoxi Dall, of the Chipola beds, but there 

 are some differences, and without adult shells a positive identifica- 

 tion cannot well be made. 



VERMETIDAE. 



Serpulorbis papulosus (Guppy) 



Vermeius papulosus Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc„ xxii, 1866, p. 292, pi. 17, fig. 3. 



Thought by Gabb to be the straight portion of Petaloconchus 

 domingensis; but some of the specimens show that the early whorls 

 are very irregularly contorted. The straightened part has three 

 striae between the rows of pustules, the central one larger. The 

 largest tube has a diameter of 10.5 mm. 



Vermetus (Petaloconchus) laddfranklinae (Maury) 



The lower whorls are very irregularly coiled, circular in section. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



No internal septa were seen in these specimens. The erect, nearly 

 straight portion is cylindric, and has about 12 spiral ridges, and 

 close, fine circular striae. Diameter 4.5 mm. A larger specimen 

 with more slowly revolving spirals has a diameter of 5.2 mm. No. 

 2812 A. N. S. P. It was referred to V. decussatus Gmel., by Gabb 

 (I. c. p. 240). 



Vermetus (Petaloconchus) domingensis Sowb. 



Petaloconchus domingensis Sowb., J. Geol. Soc. Lond., vi, 18, p. 51, pi. 10, 



fig. 9. 

 Petaloconchus sculpturatus H. C. Lea, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 240. 



This is the most abundant species of the family in Gabb's col- 

 lection. We think it a subspecies of V. sculpturatus Lea. 



TURRITELLIDAE. 



Turritella perattenuata praecellens Pils. and Brn. 



Turritella -perattenuata -praecellens P. and B., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 36. 



pi. 5, fig. 12. 

 Turritella tornata Guppy, in part, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 240 



Not of Guppy. 



The type (broken) and parts of two other specimens are no. 2608 

 A. N. S. P. 



Turritella tornata Guppy. 



Turritella tornata Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, 1866, p. 580, pi. 26, fig. 12 

 Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 240, (in part). 



Seventeen specimens, more or less imperfect, represent this species. 



Guppy 's figure is from one of the most distinctly granose examples. 



Turritella calostemma Pilsbry and Brown. 



Turritella calostemma P. and B., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 36, pi. 5, fig. 15. 



Between Las Caobas and Thomonde, Haiti ; not yet found in Santo 

 Domingo. 



Type no. 2610 A. N. S. P.; also no. 2609. 



Turritella megalobasis Dall. 



Turritella exoleta Linn., in part, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 240. 

 Turritella megalobasis Dall, Pilsbry and Brown, Proc. A. N . S. Phila., 1917 

 p. 36, pi. 5, fig. 14. 



A broken specimen 42.5 mm. long, of somewhat over 4 whorls, 



has a basal diameter of 20.4 mm. The last whorl has a peculiar 



sculpture, figured by Pilsbry and Brown. 




378 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



Turritella domingensis Pilsbry and Brown. 



Turritella domingensis P. and B., Proc. A N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 35, pi. 5, 



figs. 7, 7a, 9. 

 Turritella exoleta Linn., in part, Gabb, I. c. 



Type and parts of six smaller specimens are 2611 A. N. S. P. 



Turritella sulcigyrata Pils. and Johns. Plate XLII, fig. 15. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 171 



CAECIDAE. 



Caecum (Meioceras) constrictum Gabb. Text-fig. 17. 



Caecum constrictum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 241. 



Fig. 17. Ccecum constrictum. 



The smooth shell is not much arched, has a prominent, irregular- 

 ly dome-like plug, and is decidedly contracted at the aperture which 

 is not very oblique. 



Length 2.05, greatest diam. 0.6 mm. 



Type no. 3017 A. N. S. P. 



This species differs from C. nitidum Stimps. by the far less oblique 

 aperture. The single specimen is evidently adult. 



Caecum anellifer Pils. and Johns. Text- fig. 18. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 172. 



Fig. 18. Caecum anellifer P. and J. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



MELANIIDAE. 



Hemisinus truncatus (Gabb) Plate XXXIV, figs. 14, 15, lfi. 



Ectracheliza truncata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873. p. 214; Proc. 

 A. N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 271, pi. 9, fig. 2. (Feb. 11. 1873). 



Specimens in good condition show more or less minute, weak 

 spiral striation, such as may be traced in the smoother recent species. 

 Traces of color bands, somewhat wider than in the recent Cuban 

 H. ornatus, can be made out on some examples. As in many of the 

 melanians, the spire is extensively truncated, often leaving little 

 more than the last whorl. The shell is larger than any recent An- 

 tillean Hemisinus, and further differs by the shorter spire and long 

 last whorl, characters which may possibly give Ectracheliza stand- 

 ing as a "section" of Hemisinus; yet it belongs unquestionably 

 to that genus. The largest example measures, length 36.4, diam. 

 24 mm. The author has elsewhere alluded to the evidence for Ant- 

 illean land areas afforded by the Oligocene (or Miocene) freshwater 

 shells (Nautilus XXVIII, p. 84). 



Type and 8 others, no. 2878 A. N. S. P. 



ARCHITECTONICIDAE. 



Solariidae of authors. 



Architectonica quadriseriata (Sowb.) 



Solarium quadriseriatum Sowb, Journ. Geol. Soc, Lond., vi, 1849, p. 51, pi. 

 10, figs. 8a, b. c. 



Sowerby's figures represent a half grown example . It reaches a 

 diameter of 37 mm. 



Torinia rotundata Gabb. Plate XXXIV, figs. 18, 19, 20. 



Torinia rotundata Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 228. 



There are two spiral cinguli at the periphery, with an intermedi- 

 ate thread, the upper cingulus somewhat wider and prominent. 

 Above it there are four flat cinguli, the upper one narrowest, with 

 fewer granules. Several preceding whorls show five spirals. Un- 

 der the lens delicate spiral striae are seen upon them. On the base 

 there are five cinguli, the outer one narrowest, with a thread in the 

 grooves on each side of it. The inner cingulus is toothed around the 

 umbilicus, within which two cords and one or two threads run on the 

 last whorl. The whole surface is closely ribbed radially, the riblets 

 more prominent on the cinguli than in their intervals. 



Alt. 9.6, diam. 13.5 mm.; 6 whorls. 



The holotype is no. 2816 A. N. S. P. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



RISSOIDAE. 



Not many members of this family are in the collection. Gabb 

 had no luck with his classification of the few obtained, the species 

 of Rissoina being referred to four genera. The new genus Iopsis 

 was based upon the young stage of a Rissoina. 



The Rissoinas of the Santo Domingan Miocene seem to have 

 changed very little since that time, all of those known being iden- 

 tical with, or very closely related to, modern species of the same region. 



The genus Crepitacella Guppy, 1867 (-{-Dolophanes Gabb, 1873) 

 is closely related to Rissoina, but may be held distinct by the simple 

 lip, which is sharp, without any trace of the external varix which 

 strengthens the lip of Rissoina. Otherwise it has essentially the 

 structure of Rissoina. 



Crepitacella cepula (Guppy) Plate XXXIV, figs. 12. 13. 



Melanopsis capula Guppy, 26 Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc.,xxii, 1866, p. 580, pi. 26, 



fig. 14. (Melanopsis cepula on p. 590). 

 Crepitacella cepula Guppy, Geol. Mag. iv, 1867, p. 500,; Quart. Journ. Geol. 



Soc, xxxii, 1876, p. 524. 

 Dolophanes melanoides Gabb, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1872, (1873), p. 273, pi. 



11, fig. 7; Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 235. 

 Pleurotoma {Mangilia) columbella Dall, Bull. M. C. Z. ix, 1881, p. 60. 

 Pleurotoma (melanoides var.?) columbella Dall., Rep. "Blake" Gastrop. 1889. 



p. 271. 

 Dolophanes (melanoides Gabb, var.) gabbi, Dall, Rep. "Blake" Gastrop. 



1889, p. 270, pi. 29, fig. 7. 



As the affinities of this snail have been variously estimated by 

 the conchologists who have considered it, some statement of the 

 changes of opinion may not be out of place. Melanopsis capula 

 (cepula) was described from a formation thought to be Upper Mio- 

 cene, at Cumana, Venezuela. Mr Guppy says: 



"I do not know of any form resembling this species, which was 

 probably not a freshwater shell. It may possibly have been an estu- 

 arine form. It reminds one of a shortened and widened Eulima, or 

 even a Slylifer." 



In forming the new genus Crepitacella for the species, in 1&67, 



Mr. Guppy notes: 



"The true position of this shell is probably in the neighborhood 

 of the family Buccinidae, in which I have provisionally placed it. Its 

 nearest relation known to me is Cyllene pulchella Adams." 



In 1876, Guppy again referred to Crepitacella cepula, placing Dolo- 

 phanes melanoides Gabb in the synonymy. 



26 The name capula was no doubt a typographical error, as in all subsequent 

 references Mr. Guppy called the species cepula (a diminutive of cepa). The syn- 

 onymy was worked out by Mr. C. W. Johnson. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



In 1873, Gabb described Dolophanes melanoides as a new genus 

 and species, with the following note on its systematic position: 



"The first impression produced on looking at this little shell is 

 that it is probably a Melania; but apart from all of its three hundred 

 associates being marine, which would render such a reference im- 

 probable, it has a grouping of characters which ally it so closely to 

 Struthiolaria, that I am convinced that it is most probably a near 

 related genus. Its spire is very like that of many species of Strombidae, 

 and in the details of its mouth it differs from Struthiolaria in having 

 a thinly encrusted inner lip, an acute outer lip and an obsolete um- 

 bicilus, instead of the thickened margins and no umbilicus of that 

 genus. I have tried to identify this species with the shell de- 

 scribed by Guppy as Melanopsis capula which it seems to resemble 

 somewhat in form and size. But that author gives his shell but 

 seven whorls, and does not describe or figure the flattened tops of 

 the volutions, which are a marked character of the present species. 

 There are also other differences which, however, might be explained 

 by want of care in the artist, but which nevertheless, lead me to 

 believe that, while there may be a generic relation between the two 

 shells, they are most probably different species." 



In 1881 Dr. W. H. Dall followed the description of Pleurotoma 

 (Mangilia) columbella with the following remarks: 



"This is a species, which in the absence of the soft parts, is dif- 

 ficult to locate. It is possible it should be referred to Beta. It is 

 not unlike one or two Arctic species." 



In the "Blake" Report, 1889, Dr. Dall refers P. columbella, with 

 doubt, to Dolophanes melanoides as a variety; also placing Melanop- 

 sis capula in the synonymy, with a query. He further notes : 



"Two specimens of this form are in the collection. Guppy 's 

 specimen, from the figure, was evidently deformed. These differ 

 from it, due allowances being made for deformity, in being narrower 

 and in the narrow shoulder in front of the suture. 



"The specimen originally serving as type of M. columbella is the 

 roundest and the groove behind thesiphonal fasciole is reduced to a 

 mere chink. In the Havana specimen the chink is considerably 

 larger and the shoulder more prominent. It seems to stand about 

 one-third of the way from D. columbella to D. gabbi. I cannot be 

 sure, with so little material, but I suspect this gap might be filled 

 up by a graduated series of specimens if we had material enough. 

 Still, as the forms are not yet connected, and have already been 

 named, it seems best to leave them separate for the present. " 



Dr. Dall further writes, under the description of Dolophanes 

 (melanoides var.?) gabbi, ("Blake" Report, p. 270): 



"This genus was referred to the Struthiolariidae by its author, a 

 reference which has been questioned by all those who have had 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



occasion to refer to it since. The occurrence of a specimen in the 

 "Blake"dredgings, which, if not identical with Gabb's type is evi- 

 dently closely related to it, enables me to state that its proper position 

 is probably in this family [Trichotropidae] Unhappily, the operculum 

 and soft parts are wanting so that I cannot confirm my opinion by 

 reference to the details of its organization. I am inclined to be- 

 lieve that another form, also represented in the "Blake" dredgings, is a 

 representative of a shell described as a Melanopsis by Guppy, which 

 Gabb himself suspects to be closely related to his Dolophanes 

 melanioides. All these specimens are fresh, but the slight traces of 

 epidermis, which they retain, are not of the character of the northern 

 species of Trichotropis. Their variations are such that I am led to 

 believe all three may be merely mutations of one specific form. If 

 this be confirmed, the specific name of capula, given by Guppy, is 

 the oldest. Whether the differences are sufficient to constitute for 

 Dolophanes a rank higher than that of a mere section of the genus 

 Trichotropis, a more thorough knowledge of its characters is needed 

 to determine. This pretty and peculiar form is named in honor of 

 the late Wm. Gabb, to whom the generic name is due. I cannot be 

 certain without a comparison of specimens whether the present 

 shell is the same as that described by Prof. Gabb, or not. But the 

 figure is so much like our shell that I can hardly doubt they are very 

 closely related if not the same." 



After a careful comparison with the groups mentioned above and 

 others, we are convinced that Crepitacella belongs to the Rissoidae. 

 According to the principles of the arrangement in Tryon 's Manual 

 of Conchology, Vol. IX, it would be a subgenus of the genus Ris- 

 soina, close to the Section Morchiella Nevill; but the absence of a 

 labral varix may make it expedient to treat the group as generic, 

 though close to Rissoina. 



As to the specific synonymy, we are satisfied that the form of the 

 Bowden bed, Jamaica, and that of Santo Domingo named D. melan- 

 ioides by Gabb, are specifically identical, though there are some 

 differences, the Jamaican form being of a somewhat stouter, more 

 robust shape. The type of D. melanoides measures, alt. 13.7, diam. 

 7 mm., length of aperture 6.8 mm. (Plate XXXIV, fig. 12). From 

 the descriptions and figures it does not appear likely that any of 

 the other forms included in the list given above is specifically dis- 

 tinct. 



The type of D. melanoides is no. 4077 A. N. S. P. 



Rissoina (Zebina) laevigata (C. B. Ad.) Plate XXXIV, flgs. 3, 4. 



Eitlima crassilabris Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 227. Not 



Rissoa crassilabrum Garrett, 1857, also a Zebina. 

 Rissoa laevigata C. B. Ad., Contrib. to Conch, 1850, p. 114. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



Rissaina laevigata C. B. Ad., Tryon, Man. Conch., viii, p. 390. Dall, Tr. 



Wagner Free Inst. Sci., iii, p. 342. 

 Iopsis fusiformis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 228; Proc. A. 



N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 272. (Feb., 1873). 



The shell is smooth except for faint growth-lines, the first two 

 whorls somewhat convex, the rest flat. The outer lip has a low 

 external thickening, and no denticles within. 



Length 3.85, diam 1.75 mm.; 8| whorls (Type). 



Length 3.35 mm. 



These notes and the figures of Gabb's type and a smaller para- 

 type are given to show the exact form he had. The type is slightly 

 larger than Adams indicates for his laevigata, the other shell about 

 the same size. They agree well with recent specimens so named. 



The type of E. crassilabvis and another specimen are 

 no. 2606 A.N. S. P. 



Iopsis fusiformis Gabb (Text-fig. 19) is the neanic stage 

 of this species. There are two specimens in the type lot. 

 The larger one, text fig. 19, measures 2.2 mm. long, 1.2 

 diam., having 7 whorls. The outer and basal lip is some- 

 what broken. The other specimen measures 1.65 by 0.85 

 mm., with 6 whorls. The outer lip is protractive, thin, ^-.19- . 

 and the base has a distinct if short and shallow spout, formis. 



These cotypes are no. 2621 A. N. S. P. 



Rissoina minuta (Gabb) Plate XXXIV, fig. 1. 



Cerithidea minuta Gabb Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 239. 



The sculpture consists of many slightly protractive and weakly 

 sinuous axial riblets, which became very weak at and below the peri- 

 phery. There are very feeble and fine spiral striae above, becoming 

 much stronger at the periphery and below it, where they are blunt, 

 cord-like, and run over the less prominent ribs. Two of the spiral 

 cords are visible on the penult whorl. There is a strong varix out- 

 side the sinuous lip. The aperture has a narrow channel above, 

 and a broad, shallow sinus below. The columellar margin is worn 

 away in the middle, as though by a hermit crab. Apical whorls 

 wanting. 



Length 4.7, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Type is no. 2818 A. N. S. P. 



This species is a little stouter than recent specimens labelled R. 

 multicostata (C. B. Ad.). Except for the difference in the spiral 

 sculpture, it agrees rather well with Schwartz von Mohrenstern 's 

 figure of R. multicostata (which represents R. krebsi Morch, accord- 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



ing to Tryon). As the exact identity of Adams's species appears 

 to be in doubt, and the correspondence with Gabb 's shell is not ab- 

 solutely exact, we leave open the question of possible identity with 

 a recent species. 



Rissoina bryerea (Mont.), variety? Plate XXXIV, flg. 2. 



Biltium costatum Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 239. 



The type of B. costatum is an immature shell, lacking a half whorl 

 perhaps, 3.65 mm. long. It agrees with R. bryerea (Mont.) except 

 that there are more ribs, which are therefore somewhat smaller, 

 but not so small as in R. minuta (Gabb), or R. multicostata (C. B. 

 Ad.) The name used, by Gabb had already been given to anoth- 

 er species by C. B. Adams. If distinct from bryerea it may be call- 

 ed var. binominis. 



The type is no. 2819 A. N. S. P. 



Rissoa epulata Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIV, flg. 5. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 172. 



Rissoa (Alvania) proavita Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIV. flsr. 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 173. 



CAPULIDAE. 



Capulus inornatus Gabb. Plate XXX, flgs. 11, 12. 



Capulus inornatus Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 242. 



The embryonic shell has \\ whorls, the spire in a plane. It is 

 very close to the columellar margin of the last whorl. The last 

 whorl shows faint, fine and close radial sculpture in some places. 

 The columellar margin is coarsely crenulated, probably due to the 

 supporting object. 



Length, from umbo to opposite margin 14, width 13, convexity 

 7 mm. 



The holotype is no. 2829 A. N. S. P. 



HIPPONICIDAE. 



Hipponix pilosa Desh. 



Scurria milra Esch., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 245. 



Two somewhat worn examples agree well with this common West 

 Coast species of the recent fauna. We can find no significant dif- 

 ferences except those of time and space. 



Hipponyx otiosa Pils. and Johns. Plate XXX, flgs. 19, 20. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 173. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



CALYPTRAEIDAE. 



Crepidula plana Say. 



Crypta fornicata Linn., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 242. 



There can be no doubt of the identity of the single specimen. 



Crucibulum auricula (Gmel.) 



Crucibulum spinosum Sby., in part, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos, Soc, xv, p. 241. 

 Crucibulum auricula Gmel., Dall, Tr. Wagn. Free Inst. Sci., iii, p. 349. 



A large specimen, length 25, alt. 11.7 mm., is seated on the spire 



of a Conus. Another 26 mm. long became smooth after attaining 



a length of 9 mm. 



Crucibulum auricula spinosum Sowerby. 



Crucibulum spinosum Sby., in part, Gabb, I. c. 



Two rather small examples. 



Crucibulium striatum (Say) 



A single small specimen, 5.4 mm. long, is identified with some 

 doubt. The cup is more angular anteriorly than in recent shells. Ex- 

 terior smooth. 



Calyptraea centralis (Conrad) 



Trochita sp. undet., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 242. 



The single small specimen agrees with recent shells from St. 

 Thomas, identified as C. candeana Orb., a name which Dall con- 

 siders a synonym of centralis (Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, 353). 



XENOPHORIDAE. 



Xenophora dilecta (Guppy) Plate XXXII, flgs. 7, 8. 



Phorus agglutinans Lam., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 241. 

 Phorus dilectus Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxxii, 1876, p. 529, pi. 28, fig. 10. 



This form was described and figured by Mr. Guppy from a young 

 specimen. The shell is far less profusely loaded with shells and 

 other objects than the recent X. conchy liophor a, and shows a much 

 greater part of the proper surface, which is copiously sculptured 

 with fine protractive wrinkles. Base as in X. conchyliophora ex- 

 cept that the umbilical chink is larger. The parietal wall is honey 

 yellow. Largest example has a diameter of 68 mm. 



This Xenophora may perhaps be a local race of X. conchyliophora, 

 but its characters indicate at least subspecific distinction. 



Xenophora imperforata (Gabb) Plate XXXI, flgs. 3, 4. 



Onuslus imperforatus Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 241. 



The upper surface has the usual sculpture of fine, crowded, pro- 

 tractive wrinkles, which are not granulous. The last 3£ whorls 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



show no trace of attached objects, but several preceding whorls have 

 little pits or facets where bits of shell or pebbles were no doubt at- 

 tached, as in the recent X. indica (Gm.), though the agglutinating 

 stage was shorter, not lasting beyond the size of about 8 mm. diam- 

 eter. The base is nearly smooth, having growth-lines only. The 

 narrow umbilicus is more than half covered by the dilated colu- 

 mellar lip. There is no spiral welt near the periphery, as in the recent 

 X. caribaea (Petit), which also has a wider umbilicus and carries 

 more load. 



Alt. 30, diam. 72 mm. 



Type is no. 3221 A. N. S. P. 



NATICIDAE. 



Natica sulcata (Born) 



Natica sulcata Born, Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 223. 



Nearly all of the numerous examples lack the spirals of typical 

 N. sulcata, being the form called rugosa (Gmel.). 



Natica canrena (L.) 



Natica canrena Linn., Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 223. 



The specimens agree fully with recent shells, but they are without 

 opercula. 



Natica youngi Maury (finitima Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIV, fig. 21). 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 173. 



This appears to be identical with the prior N. youngi Maury. 



Polinices mamillaris (Lam.) 



Mammilla mamillaris Lam., Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 223. 

 Natica subclausa Sowerby, Q. Journ. Geol. Soc, vi, p. 51. 



This species was taken in abundance. 



Amauropsis guppyi (Gabb) Plate XXXIV, flgs. 25, 26, 27. 



Amaura guppyi Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 224. 

 ? Natica phasianelloides D'Orb., Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, 1866, p. 291, 

 pi. 17, fig. 1. 



This graceful shell varies in length of the spire, as the figures show. 

 The type measures, length 32.3, diam. 21.5 mm., and has 8 whorls, 

 the apex not quite perfect, having lost one whorl perhaps. Others 

 are larger, 37.4 mm. long, with h\ whorls remaining. 



The type and numerous other specimens are no. 2881 A. N. S. P. 



Amauropsis ocalana Dall 27 has been reported from the Rio Anima, 



27 Proc U. S. Nat. Mus., li, 1916, p. 519, pi. 88, fig. 11. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



Santo Domingo. 28 It resembles P. guppyi, and the Santo Domingan 

 specimens should be compared with that species. The specimens 

 reported from the Canal Zone as Lupia perovata Conr. also need 

 comparison with A. guppyi. Mr. Guppy appears to have identified 

 this species with Natica phasianelloides Orb., 29 but that is a very 

 large species, 70 mm. long, and otherwise different in shape. 



This species and the next have not the channelled suture of A maur- 

 opsis, and perhaps belong to Ampullina or Lupia. 



Amauropsis altispira (Gabb) Text-flg. 20. 



Eutropia allispira Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 242. 



The shell is imperforate, polished, composed of 5| 

 rounded whorls, which slope below the suture. The 

 columella is slightly thickened, and is dilated slight- 

 ly above the axial region. Outer lip is broken. 



Length 4.4, diam. 2.75 mm. 



In our opinion, this is not a Phasianella (Eutropia). 

 It appears to be a rather narrow species of Am- 

 auropsis. The specimen is probably not adult, but 

 Fig. 20. it is not the young of A . guppyi or of any other 

 ahis m ira r ° PSlS known species of these beds. 



Type no. 2877 A. N. S. P. 



Amauropsis burnsii meridionalis n. subsp. Plate XXXIV, figs. 23, 24. 



Close to Polynices (Amauropsis) burnsii Dall, of the Chipola bed, 

 but differing by the shallower, fiat-bottomed channel along the su- 

 ture, the parapet bounding it being narrower. The aperture is not 

 so wide as in burnsii. Lip very narrowly reflected. 



Length 23.4, diam. 18 mm.; 5 whorls remaining. 



Type No. 2876 A. N. S. P. 



Sinum excentricum (Guppy) 30 is not represented in the Gabb col- 

 lection. 



EPITONIIDAE. 

 The fragmentary specimens which Gabb referred to Scalaria 



28 Ibid., xix, p. 329. 



29 Paleontologie of de la Sagra's Cuba; p. 9, pi. 1, fig. 7. It was found near 

 Havana. Some doubt has been expressed by Doctor Dall as to whether the 

 Paleontologie was ever properly published, but I have seen two copies of both 

 text and plates. The text (French edition) bears date of 1853 on the title page, 

 and as d'Orbigny dates the new species 1852, it is likely that the plates were pub- 

 lished in that year, or perhaps that was the date of the Spanish edition. 



,0 Sigarelus excenlricus Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxxii, 1876, p. 519, pi. 29, fig. 11 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



denticulate. Sowerby do not seem sufficient for a positive determin- 

 ation. 



Epitonium amplum (Gabb) Plate XXXIV, fig. 22. 



Scalaria ampla Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 224 



On the last whorl the ribs become wider downwards, until near 

 the axis they run together. In the intervals two or three low spiral 

 cords may be seen above the much stronger basal cord. There are 

 10 ribs on the last whorl. 



Length 14, diam. 10.8 mm., 4 whorls remaining. 



Type is no. 2823 A. N. S. P. It is from the brown shale east of 

 Guayubin. 



Sthenorytis toroensis Dall, from Limon Bay, has much in common 

 with this species, but the varices are recurved, and there is no bas- 

 al cord. 



Epitonium minutissimum (Gabb) Plate XXXIV, flgs. 10, 11, 



Scalaria minutissma Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos: Soc, XV, 1873, p. 224. 



Two of the twelve ribs on the last whorl are distinctly larger, both 

 higher and thicker. All bear short points near the suture. In the 

 intervals of the major spirals there are several, usually three, smaller 

 spirals, and the whole is delicately latticed by axial threads. 



Length 6, diam. 2.3 mm., 8^ whorls remaining. 



Type and 4 other specimens are no. 2824 A. N. S. P. 



Epitonium santodominganum n. sp. Plate XXXIV, flgs. 8, 9. 



The shell is imperforate, slender, with about 3| smooth embryonic 

 and 5^ sculptured whorls. Sculpture of thin ribs on the spire, some- 

 what thicker on the last whorl, where there are two varices, one near 

 its beginning, the other on the back. There are about 18 ribs in all 

 on the last whorl. The intervals have sculpture of narrow low spiral 

 cords, with several smaller, less distinct threads between them on 

 the last two whorls. The cords slightly crenulate the posterior edges 

 of the ribs. Aperture short-ovate. 



Length 3.9, diam. 1.5 mm. 



Type no. 4064 A. N. S. P.; with Scalaria minutissima Gabb. 



Epitonium amosbrowni n. sp. Plate XXXIV, fig. 7. 



A minute, imperforate, rather thin species, with about 2 smooth, 

 convex embryonic whorls followed by 4| very convex whorls with 

 deep suture. Sculpture of thin, equal ribs each rising in a blunt 

 point at the shoulder, 16 on the last whorl. The intervals have low 

 indistinct spiral cords on the lower half of each whorl, but not ex- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



tending to the axis on the last whorl. Aperture very shortly oval. 



Length 3.3, diam. 1.5 mm. 



Type and two young specimens No.4063 A.N.S.P.; with Scalaria 

 minutissima Gabb and the preceding species. 



Aclis (Amblyspira) bartschiana Pils. and John.-,. Plate XXXV, fig. 5. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 174. 



Aclis (Hebetaclis) alta (Gabb) Plate XXVII, fig. 6. 



Auriculina alia Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, XV, 1873, p. 226. 



The surface of this shell is not plain, as stated by Gabb. It is 

 densely covered with slightly waved spiral striae, several of those 

 below the suture being larger. The apex is obtuse, the first whorl 

 being naticoid, glossy and smooth, with nearly level top and the tip 

 a little turned down; subsequent whorls are convex, separated by a 

 narrow, very deeply impressed suture. The thin concave columella 

 passes continuously into the parietal wall. 



Length 3.3, diam. 1.1 mm., 5§ whorls. 



The type, no. 3170, is the largest of five specimens. 



The generic position of this graceful and delicate shell is not clear 

 to me, but it has some resemblance to Aclis. The obtuse summit 

 and the small number of relatively long whorls have caused its segre- 

 gation as the type of a new subgenus to be called Hebetaclis. The 

 aperture recalls that of Bcrthais Melvill, but the apical whorls differ. 



PYRAMIDELLIDAE. 



Doctor Bartsch's table of classification 31 has proved indispens- 

 ible in dealing with this group. Unfortunately he has not yet 

 treated of the Antillean species. 



The Santo Domingan Turbonillas all conform pretty closely to 

 modern types, but part of the Odostomias do not fit readily into the 

 tables arranged for recent species. This may be due to our frag- 

 mentary knowledge of the recent Caribbean Odostomias. 



In addition to the species enumerated below, there are some 

 Turbonillas and Odostomias still to be worked out. 



Several species of Turbonilla&nd Odostomia have been described 

 by Miss Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. V, pp. 147-151, but the figures 

 are so poor that no satisfactory comparisons with our species can 

 be made from them. 



31 A Monograph of West American Pyramidellidae, Bull. 68 U.S.N. Mus., 1909. 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Pyramidella (Longchaeus) jamaicensis Dall. 



Pyramdella (Longchoeus) jamaicensis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xix, p. 315> 

 pi. 29, fig. 10. 



CaUolongchaeus jamiicensis Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, p. 1584. 



A single young example, length 2.3 mm., was found in the bottle 

 with P. canaliculata. 



Pyramidella (Triptychus) nivea (Morch) 



Obeli ens niveus Morch, Malak. Blatter, xxii, 1875, p. 159. 

 Cerithium biseriaium Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. Phila. (N . Ser."), viii, p. 361, pi. 46, 

 fig. 50. 



A single young specimen agrees with Gabb 's type of C. biseriaium, 

 which came from Costa Rica; also with the young of the recent form. 

 Oscilla indiscreta Guppy is a closely related Bowden species. 



Pyramidella canaliculata (Gabb) Plate XXXV, flg. 14. 



Obeliscus canalicvlatus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 225. 



The shell is straightly conic. The sutural channel is formed by 

 the excavation of the lower border of each whorl and a narrower 

 excavation of the upper border, which is minutely crenulated just 

 below the suture, and when quite perfectly preserved, at the shoulder 

 angle also, at least on some of the whorls. A little thread just above 

 the suture divides the sutural channel. There is a not very large 

 gutter immediately below the periphery. The whorls are quite flat 

 and plain between the channels. There are three columellar plaits, 

 the upper one wide and subhorizontal. Within the outer lip are 

 four plicae, the lower one small, the upper very small. Umbilicus 

 narrow, circular, bounded by a strong, convex fasciole. 



The largest entire specimen (type) is 9.5 mm. long, 3.5 wide, with 

 12 whorls, the tip of the spire lost. Another shell was larger, diam. 

 4.6 mm., the spire and last whorl broken, three strong teeth within 

 the outer lip. 



Type no. 4080 A. N. S. P. 



Gabb's description and his vial of specimens were composite. 

 The latter contained in addition to the form we select as typical 

 P. canaliculata, specimens of the following species : one Pyramidella 

 jamaicensis, and several Odostomia pyrgulopsis, which were doubt- 

 less put in as young P. canaliculata. 



Gabb's measurements were evidently estimated from what the 

 largest examples would measure if the lip and spire were perfect. 

 We select an immature shell as type, since it accords best with 

 most of his definition. 



There is a Pyramidella canaliculata of Sowerby (Proc. Zool. Soc, 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



London, 1873, p. 720). I am informed by F. Martin Duncan, Li- 

 brarian of the Zoological Society, that the number of the Proceedings 

 containing this page was published about March, 1874. It was 

 therefore later than Gabb's species. Sowerby's P. canaliculata 

 may be called Pyramidella insularum. 



Pyramidella forulata famelica Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXV, fig. 13. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 174. 



Type no. 4079 A. N. S. P. This is probably P. olssoni Maury. 



Turbonilla (Careliopsis) turritelloides Gabb. Plate XXXVI, flg. 1. 



Turbonilla turritelloides Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 226. 



The nucleus is helicoid, spire rather low, of about 2\ whorls, early 

 post-nuclear whorls convex, becoming flattened in the lower two- 

 thirds. There are faint traces of vertical ribs and numerous, un- 

 equal spiral striations. 



Length 6.5, diam. 1.2 mm.; 14 post-nuclear whorls. 



Type no. 3029 A. N. S. P. Numerous other specimens. 



Turbonilla (Pyrgiscus) dominicensis Gabb. Plate XXXVI, flg. 3. 



Turbonilla dominicensis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 225. 



The nucleus is small, helicoid, subsequent whorls sculptured with 

 strong, straight rounded ribs, which are very slightly protractive on 

 the upper part, changing to slightly retractive in the last three whorls. 

 On the penult whorl there are 20 ribs. On the last whorl the ribs 

 gradually disappear just below the periphery. Spiral sculpture of 

 weak, unequal striae, not visible on the summits of the ribs; the 

 base is convex, with more regular spiral striae. The whorls are 

 somewhat convex throughout. The columella is thin, slightly 

 sinuous, the edge reflected and appressed above. 



Length 6, diam. 1.4 mm., 9^ post-nuclear whorls. 



Type no. 3031 A. N. S. P. 



Turbonilla (Pyrgiscus) santodomingensis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 4. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 175. 



Turbonilla (Pyrgiscus) beatula Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 2. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 174. 



Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) galeata Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 5. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 175. 



Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) peraequa Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 175. 




392 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



Turbcmilla (Nisiturris) angustula Pils.and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 176. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) aratibacillum Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 176. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) insititia Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 176. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) undecimcostata Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 177. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) pertenuis Gabb. Plate XXXVI, flg. 11. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p 177. 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) contexta Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 12. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 177. 



It may be noted here that Turbonilla bartschiana and T. gatunen- 

 sis Brn. & Pils. 32 belong to the subgenus Nisiturris, not to Chemnitzia 

 as originally stated. 



Turbonilla (Tragula) egressa Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, flg. 13. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 178. 



Fig. 21 . Odostomia Fig. 22. O. ingloria Fig. 23. 0. santo- Fig. 24. O. myr- 

 ingloria. calvata. domingensis. mecoon. 



Odostomia (Odostomia) ingloria Pilse and Johns. Text-flg. 21. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 178. 



Odostomia santodomingensis Pils. and Johns. Text-flg. 23. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 179. 



Odostomia myrmecoon Pils. and Johns. Text-flg. 24. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 179. 



Odostomia (Eulimastoma) pyrgulopsis Pils. and Johns. Text-flg. 25. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 179. 

 32 Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1912, pp. 509, 510. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



393 



Odostomia (Eulimastoma) bathyraphe Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 26. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 180. 



Fig. 25. Odostomia 

 pyrgvlopsis.. 



Fig. 26. 0. bathy- 

 raphe. 



Fig. 27. O. vex- 

 ator. 



Odostomia (Evalea?) vexator Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 27. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917. p. 180. 



Odostomia (Goniodostomia) superans Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 28. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 180. 



Fig. 28. Odostomia 

 superans. 



Fig. 29. O. cir- 



cumvincta. 



Odostomia (Goniodostomia) circumvincta Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 29. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 181. 



Odostomia (Parthenina?) cyclocephala Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, fig. 14. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 181. 



Odostomia (Odostomidea) bartschiana Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVI, fig. 15. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 182. 



Odostomia (Odostomidea) mogindo n. sp. Plate XXXVI, fig. 16. 



The shell resembles 0. bartschiana, but has the whorls swollen 

 and shouldered below the suture. The first whorl is smooth, strongly 

 convex above, turned in at the apex, the suture deep from the be- 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



ginning. The second whorl is convex, weakly ribbed; third and 

 later whorls are swollen and subangular below the suture, then flat- 

 tened with sculpture of large, well-spaced, axial ribs, the concave 

 intervals finely striate, with in some places the faintest traces of 

 spiral striae also. On the last whorl there are eleven ribs, on the 

 penult ten. On the dorsal part of the last whorl the ribs disappear 

 towards the base. The small aperture is ovate and oblique, with 

 continuous peristome and a strong submedian fold on the inner 

 margin. 



Length 2.35, diam. 0.83 mm. ; slightly over 6 whorls. 



Type no. 3016 A. N. S. P. 



Odostomia (Chrysallida) dulcis Pils, and Johns. Plate XVIII. flg. 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 182. 



MELANELLIDAE. (Eulimidae) 



Niso grandis Gabb. Plate XXXIV, flg. 17. 



Niso grandis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 227. 



This shell is represented by a specimen of 4 whorls, the upper 

 part and the last half whorl wanting. The remaining whorls a J e 

 a trifle more convex and shorter than the corresponding part of 

 Niso willcoxiana Dall, indicating a distinct though allied species. 

 The length is 19.3, diam 12.4 mm. 



Type no. 3018 A. N. S. P. 



Niso minuta Gabb. Text-flg. 30. 



Niso minuta Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 227. 



A single example, no. 3019. The 6 whorls are just perceptibly 

 convex. The last three have slender white axial lines, which appear 

 to be very slightly raised on the pale gray ground. There is a strong 

 keel about the umbilicus, but none at the periphery. 



Length 1.85, diam. 0.95 mm. 



Further specimens are needed to show whether it attains a greater 

 size. 



Melanella astuta Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXV, flg. 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 182. 



Melanella gabbiana Pils and Johns. Plate XXXV, flg. 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 183. 



Strombiformis sarissiformis Pils. & Johns. PI. XXXV, flg. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 183. 



The aperture is wider in the unbroken adult stage than in the 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



395 



type, which has lost about one-fourth of a whorl. 



Strombiformis praelubrica Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXV, fig. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 183. 



Strombiformis ischnon Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXV, fig. 8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila.,1917, p. 183. 



Fig. 30. 

 Niso minuta. 



Fig. 31. 



Strombiformis stimulus. 



Strombiformis stimulus Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 31. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 183. 



This minute shell is not a Subularia, as it lacks the axial keel near 

 the base and is not noticeably flattened dorso-ventrally. 



TURBINIDAE. 



Turbo dominicensis Gabb. Plate XLII, figs. 16, 17. 



Turbo dominicensis Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 242. 



Seven specimens are all imperfect, but the species is well char- 

 acterized. There is a conspicuous, beaded spiral cord below the 

 suture, followed by five minor beaded spirals, alternately smaller 

 and larger; then another prominent cord followed by three minor 

 spirals the middle one larger. At the periphery there is a third 

 larger cord, and below it about 9 spirals, those on the base subequal, 

 and all cut into beads by axial grooves. Around the axial region 

 there is a broad and conspicuous callus. The shell was unusually 

 thin for a Turbo. The specimen selected as type (fig. 16) consists 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



of little more than two whorls. Another (fig. 17) shows the conic 

 spire usual in the genus. 



Diameter of type 25 mm. 



Many opercula of Turbo collected probably belong, at least in 

 part, to this species. Unworn specimens vary remarkably in the 

 degree of callous filling over the nucleus, the number of spiral fur- 

 rows and the amount of granulation ; the series forming a transition 

 from the operculum of Senectus to that of Callopoma. It appears 

 likely that several species of Turbo are involved. 



Type no. 2843 A. N. S. P. 



Astrsea domingensis Pils. and Johns. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 184. 



This is perhaps Astralium sublongispinum Maury. It resembles 

 A. karlschmidti in shape, but has more numerous spirals above. 



PHASIANELLI D AE . 



Phasianella affinis C, B. Ad. 



Lacuna punctata Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv. 1873, p. 240. 



The umbilical groove appears slightly deeper, its bounding angle 

 shorter than in recent specimens compared ; yet the difference is so 

 small that we have no doubt of the specific identity. 



Gabb 's type lot, 13 specimens are no. 2820 A. N. S. P. 



Eutropia altispira Gabb is a Naticid gastropod. 



NERITIDAE. 



Smaragdia viridis (L.) 



Nerita viridis L., Syst. Nat., x, 778. 



Neritina viridis L., Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 242. 



The specimens are all small, up to 3.8 mm. long, and show a trace 

 of the green ground color, as well as the linear markings. They are 

 more like European than recent West Indian specimens. 



TROCHIDAE. 



Tegula viridula (Gmel.) 



Omphalius viridulus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. 

 Soc, xv, p. 243. 



Calliostoma leve n.n. Text-flg. 32. 



Calliostoma conica Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, 

 xv, 1873, p. 243. Not Trochus conicus Donovan, also 

 a Calliostoma. 



The shell is imperforate and straightly 

 conical. Each whorl has 6 spiral cords, sep- 

 arated by narrow grooves, above the peri- 

 pheral cord. On the upper whorls these Fig ' 32> Calliostoma leve ' 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



397 



cords are distinctly beaded by retractive grooves, but the beading 

 is weaker on the last whorl. The flat base has about 12 small 

 smooth cords. 



Alt. 5, diam. 4.6 mm., 6 whorls. 



Type is no. 2821 A. N. S. P. One specimen. 



Solariella (?) tricarinata (Gabb) Text-flg. 33. 



Margarita tricarinata Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 243. 



This minute shell has three strong coarinae in 

 the peripheral region and rounded beads be- 

 low the suture and on the umbilical angle. 

 There are some short radial folds external to 

 the latter. The initial 1| whorls are smooth 

 and rounded. It is obviously a very young 

 shell and possibly belongs to Liotia. 



Alt. 1.15, diam. 1.4 mm.; 3 whorls. 



Type is no. 2836 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 33. 

 tricarinata. 



Solariella 



CYC LOSTREMATIDAE. 



Circulus pentagona (Gabb) 



Vitrinella pentagona Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 243; Journ. 

 Acad. N. S. Phila. viii, p. 368, pi. 47, fig. 68. 



This species resembles C. trilix (Bush), but is much smaller. The 

 unique type measures, alt. 0.9, diam. 1.9 mm.; 3f whorls. The 

 front part of the last whorl is broken, but shown restored in Gabb 's 

 figure. 



Type no. 2831 A. N. S. P. 



Circulus domingensis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVII, figs. 6, 6a, 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p: 184. 



In a smaller, more perfect specimen found among Gabb's du- 

 plicates, there are more numerous, smaller spirals within the umbili cus 

 (Plate XXXVII, fig. 7). In the type the ribs are worn on the peri- 

 phery, hence appear weaker in the figure than in perfect specimens. 



Vitrinella (Episcynia) naso (Pils. and Johns.) Plate XXXVII, flgs. 5, 5a. 

 Discopsis (?) naso Pils. and Johns., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 184. 



Adeorbis carinata Gabb is thought by Dall to be "probably iden- 

 tical with Vitrinella (Episcynia) inornata Orb." (Trans. Wagner 

 Inst. Ill, 420). This note was overlooked at the time we redescribed 

 the form in 1917. While it is apparently related to that recent spe- 

 cies (which we know only by Orbigny's account and figures), we con- 

 sider it specifically distinct. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Vitrinella (Solariorbis) amosbrowni n. sp. Plate XXXVII, figs. 4, 4a. 



The shell is perforate, conic, of 4| rather rapidly increasing, mod- 

 erately convex whorls, the earlier ones smooth, the penult showing 

 some weak spirals above the suture, the last whorl having about 

 five weak well-spaced spiral cords in the peripheral region, a few 

 still weaker ones traceable above them, and about five smaller, 

 closer spirals below them, occupying all but the central region of 

 the base. Under the compound microscope the surface between 

 the spirals appears densely, irregularly pitted or granose. In the 

 middle part of the base it is finely radially striate and granose. The 

 aperture is somewhat squarish in front view, oblique; the basal lip 

 arches forward a little in a basal view. The peristome is thickened 

 within, the columellar margin strongly so. 



Alt. 1, diam. 1.55 mm. 



Type no. 4059 A. N. S. P. 



Teinostoma angulatum (Gabb) Plate XXXVII. figs. 1, la, 16. 



Cyclops angulatus Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 214, 



The last whorl does not cover the spire completely, as a segment 

 of the suture is exposed, and the rest is visible through the trans- 

 parent last whorl. There seem to be about 2\ whorls. In the last 

 whorl the suture leaves its former course at a right angle and de- 

 scribes a semicircle to the periphery. The last whorl is angular 

 peripherally in front, but becomes rounded at the end. The dome- 

 like upper surface is covered with very fine spiral striae. The axial 

 callus is large, and formed as in Umbonium or Helicina. 



Alt 1.7, diam. 3.7 mm. 



Type no. 2837 A. N. S. P. 



This species and the next belong to a section of Teinostoma which 

 may be called Idioraphe, type T. angulatum, characterized by having 

 the whorls enveloping, the suture at first closely coiled, but in the 

 last whorl deviating abruptly. T. cryptospira Verrill is an allied 

 recent species. T. sandomingensis, which we have not seen, is pro- 

 bably near T. angulatum. 



Teinostoma depressum (Gabb) Plate XXXVII, figs. 2, 2a, 26. 

 Cyclops depressa Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 214. 



In this tiny species the tip of the spire is exposed, the periphery 

 is rounded, and there are no spiral striae. 

 Alt. 0.65, diam. 1.3 mm. 

 The single example no. 2830 A. N. S. P., is probably not adult. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



We think that the suture might become curved or tangential with 

 further growth. 



Teinostoma vitreum (Gabb) Plate XXXVII, figs. 3, 3a. 36. 



Umbonium vitreum Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873. p. 243. 



Parkeria vitrea Gabb, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. viii, p. 368, pi. 47, fig. 69. 



This is an Umbonium-like shell of 3f whorls. Faint, close spiral 

 striae may be seen on the upper part of the last whorl under strong 

 magnification. The basal callus is like that of Helicina, its outer 

 edge rather indistinct. There is a thick parietal callus somewhat 

 exaggerated in Gabb's figure. 



Alt. 1.1, diam. 1.85 mm. 



Type no. 2833 A. N. S. P. 



This species belongs to the subgenus Pseudorotella. It is type 

 of Parkeria Gabb, not Parkeria Carpenter & Brady, 1869 (Protozoa). 



FISSURELLIDAE. 



Diadora alternata henekeni Maury. 



Lucapina alternata Say, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 244. 

 Fissuridea henekeni Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. V, p. 157. 



The four specimens, no. 3163, differ somewhat from recent F. 

 alternata; the concentric cords are closer, rising into higher scales 

 on the radial ribs, and the orifice is relatively a little longer, one- 

 sixth the total length. 



SCAPHOPODA. 



As the Scaphopoda have been already described and illustrated 

 in a special paper, it is not necessary to repeat the matter here. 



Dentalium rudis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 244, ap- 

 pears to be a worm tube. It has been figured in Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila., 1897, p. 471, pi. 10, figs. 4, 8. 



DENTALIIDAE. 



Dentalium cossmannianum Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Dentalium cossmannianum Pilsbry & Sharp, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1897, p. 

 467, pi. 10, fig. 11; pi. 11, figs. 10, 11. 



Type no. 2709 A. N. S. P. 



Dentalium callioglyptum Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Dentalium callioglyptum P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 468, pi. 10, 

 figs. 11, 12; pi. 11, fig. 21. 



Type no. 2713 A. N. S. P. 



Dentalium tryoni Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Dentalium tryoni P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 468, pi. 10, figs. 5, 

 9; pi. 11, fig. 22. 



Type no. 2710 A. N. S. P. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE' ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Dentalium dissimile Guppy. 



Dentalium dissimile Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, xxii, 1866, p. 292, pi. 

 17, fig. 4. Pilsbry and Sharp, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 469, pi. 11, 

 figs. 3, 4. 5. 



The specimens are no. 2712 A. N. S. P. 



Dentalium dissimile ponderosum Gabb. 



Dentalium -ponderosum Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 244. 

 Dentalium dissimile var. ponderosum Gabb, Pilsbry and Sharp, Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila. 1897, p. 470, pi. 10, figs. 1, 2, 3; pi. 11, figs. 15, 16. 



Type no. 2708 A. N. S. P. 



Dentalium gabbi Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Dentalium affine Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 244. Not of 



Deshayes. 

 Dentalium gabbi P. and S.. Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 470, pi. 10, figs. 6, 7, 



13; pi. 11, figs. 1,2. 



Type no. 2711 A.N. S. P. 



Dentalium haytense Gabb. 



Dentalium haylensis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 244. 

 Dentalium haytense Gabb, P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 471, pi. 11, 

 figs. 8, 9. 



Type no. 2715 A. N. S. P. 



Dentalium pyrum Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Dentalium pyrum P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1873, p. 472, pi. 11, figs. 6, 7. 



Type no. 2714 A. N. S. P. 



Dentalium praecursor Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Dentalium praecursor P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1873, p. 472, pi. 11, figs. 

 12, 13, 14. 



Type no. 2717 A. N. S. P. 



Dentalium sagittarii Pils. and Johns. Plate XVIII, fig. 12. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 185. 

 Dentalium eboreum Conrad (?) 



A series of small, very slender Graptacmes, probably none of them 

 mature, is referred provisionally to this recent species. 



No. 2882 A. N. S. P. 



SIPHONODENTALIIDAE 



Cadulus phenax Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Ga&us dominguensis d'Orb., Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc, Xv, p. 472. 

 Cadulus phenax Pils. and Sharp. Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 472, pi. 11, figs. 

 23, 24. 



Type no. 2883 A. N. S. P. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Cadulus elegantissimus Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Cadulus elegantissimus P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 473, pi. 11, 

 figs. 28, 29, 30. 



Type no. 2885 A. N. S. P. 



Cadulus depressicollis Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Cadvlus depressicollis P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 473, pi. 11, figs. 

 25, 26, 27. 



Type no. 2884 A. N. S. P. 



Cadulus colobus Pilsbry and Sharp. 



Cadulus colobus P. and S., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1897, p. 474, pi. 11, figs. 17-20. 



Type no 2886 A. N. S. P. 



PELECYPODA. 



NUCULIDAE. 



Nucula (Acila) tuberculata Gabb. Plate XXXVIII, fig. 5. 



Nucula (Acila) tuberculata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873 r> 255 



The right valve is a trifle larger and its lunule is smaller, that of 

 the left valve being large. The narrow escutcheon is smooth. Pos- 

 terior dorsal slopes are obliquely corrugated, the rest of the valve 

 tuberculate in the middle and upward, the tubercles obsolete in the 

 lower third, which has sculpture of growth striae and fine, not prom- 

 inent, radial threads. There are 8 anterior teeth, 16 posterior, in 

 a specimen 6.5 mm. long. 



Length 7, alt. 6.2, diam. 4 mm. 



Type and numerous separate valves are no. 2658 A. N. S. P. 



Nucula tenuisculpta Gabb. Plate, XXXVttI, fig. 6. 



Nucula tenuisculpta Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p 255. 

 ? Nucula crenulata A. Ad.,Dall, "Blake" Pelecypoda, Bull. M.C. Z. xii, no. 6, 

 p. 247; Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 577. 



Dall has identified Gabb's species with the recent N. crenulata, 

 which appears to be typically much more coarsely sculptured. As 

 the numerous specimens from Santo Domingo are very uniform in 

 sculpture it seems possible that they form a recognizable race or 

 perhaps a species. 



N. tenuisculpta is finely wrinkled concentrically, and radially 

 closely striate, the striae appearing as gray lines, which so far as we 

 can tell are little if at all impressed. Internal border finely crenu- 

 lated. The largest of numerous valves measures, length 3.35, alt. 

 2.8 mm. 



Gabb's type is no. 2656 A. N. S. P. 




402 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



Specimens of this species were found in the mud washed out of 

 Cymatium praefemorale, no. 3222. 



LEDIDAE. 

 Leda extricate Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVIII, flgs. 1, la. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 185. 



Toldia ovalis Gabb. Text-flg. 34. 



Yoldia ovalis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc., xv, 1873, p. 255. 



Externally there are some low concentric wrinkles in the lower 

 half of the otherwise smooth valve. Length 8 2, alt. 4.5, diam. of 

 one valve 1.5 mm. 



Type no. 3319, a single left valve. 



Fig. 34. Yoldia ovalis Gabb, Type. 

 LIMOPSIDAE. 



Limopsis ovalis Gabb. Text-fig. 35. 



Limopsis ovalis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 255. 



The sculpture consists of many fine thread-like radii and much 



Fig. 35. Lrimopsis ovalis Gabb. 



more prominent and coarser, unequal concentric wrinkles, 

 hinge has 8 teeth on each side of the median hiatus. 



Length 9, alt. 9.7, semidiam. 2.5 mm. (Type). 



Type is no. 2657 A. N. S. P. 



The 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Two smaller valves are nearly circular in outline. It becomes 

 oval with age, as Gabb remarked. 



ARCIDAE. 



Area umbonata Lamarck. 



Area imbricata Brug., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 254. 

 Area umbonata Lamarck, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 620. 



Characteristic specimens of this well known species are con- 

 tained in no. 2647. 



Area bonaczyi (Gabb) Plate XXXIX, figs. 1, 2. 



Barbatia bonaczyi Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 254. 



This species stands very close to A. Candida Gmel., and a fuller 

 series may show that it is not separable. It differs by the narrower 

 form and very slight byssal sinuosity, which indeed is not visible in 

 the type valve, though noticeable in a smaller one. 



Length 34, alt. 18, diam. of right valve 7 mm. 



Type no. 2649 A. N. S. P. 



Area inaequilateralis Guppy. 



Area inaequilateralis Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, 1866, p. 293, pi. 18, figs. 

 2a, b. 



Two specimens. It appears to be more abundant in the Bowden 

 bed. 



Area (Scapharca) pennelli Gabb. Plate XXXIX, figs. 3, 4. 



A. (Anadara) pennelli Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 254. 



The type, a left valve, has 36 ribs. They are closely granose ex- 

 cept at the ends, where granulation is obsolete. The intervals 

 have sharp, irregular transverse striae. The cardinal area is narrow- 

 marked with a few waved longitudinal grooves, and defined by a 

 narrow strong keel. The hinge has a continuous tooth row of 16 

 and 35 teeth, irregular where the series meet. 



Length 36, alt. 27, diam. of left valve 13 mm. 



Type is no. 2651 A. N. S. P. 



In the right valve of another specimen the ribs are smooth. 



Area (Scapharca) sobrina Pils. and Johns. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 186 

 = Area henekeni Maury. 



Area (Scapharca) copiosa Pils. and Johns. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 186. 

 — A. margaretoe Maury. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Area (Scapharca) devexa Pils and Johns. Plate XL], figs. 8, 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 187. 



Area (Scapharca) intumulata Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIX, figs. 7, 8, 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 187. 

 Area (Scapharca) proletaria Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIX, figs. 5, 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 188. 



Area grandis Broderip and Sowerby. Plate XL, fig. 1. 



Area grandis B. and S., Zool. Journ. iv, 1829, p. 365. Reeve, Conch. Icon. 



ii, pi. 1, fig. 4. Kobelt, Syst. Conch. Cab. p. 41, pi. 12, fig. 1. Carpenter, 



Rep. B. A. A. S., for 1856, pp. 1, 249, pi. 6, figs. 1^. 

 Area (Anadara) grandis Brod. and Sby., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 



p. 253, in part. 

 Area patricia Maury. Bull. Amer. Pal. v, pi. 27. 



There are twelve large valves of this species in the Gabb collec- 

 tion from Santo Domingo (no. 2720, 2721), two from 20 miles west 

 of Azua, Haiti, collected by Mr. Lloyd B. Smith (no. 2662), and 

 nine from near Cartagena, Colombia (no. 2661), also taken by Mr. 

 Smith. We formerly thought that the fossils of the Caribbean area 

 were separable from A . grandis of the recent Panamic Province, but 

 a close study of all the material shows that no separation can be 

 made. 33 



While somewhat related to A. chiriquiensis Gabb, this species 

 differs in shape and by the smaller number of ribs, 24 to 26; chiri- 

 quiensis having 28 to 30. They are larger, and remain better de- 

 veloped on the posterior dorsal slope. The shell is nearly equi- 

 valve, extremely large, solid and heavy, The posterior lower angle 

 is produced, anterior end rounded, basal margin nearly straight. 

 The beaks are extremely large, giving the shell a triangular con- 

 tour, and projecting far above the hinge. Cardinal area very broad, 

 in form of a nearly symmetrical triangle, being scarcely or not longer 

 posteriorly than in front of the beaks; marked with grooves meeting 

 at a wide angle (but in adults usually eroded, showing the striation 

 derived from growth of the teeth). Sculpture of 25 strong radial 

 ribs, the anterior ones slightly granulated (this is more obvious in 

 the young) ; the granules, transverse, rather widely and unevenly 

 spaced. Intercostal spaces show rather sharp growth-striae. The 



33 Mr. Gabb reached the same conclusion; but as he included A. chiriquiensis, 

 and thought A. tolepia the young, his decision has not influenced the opinion ex- 

 pressed above. 



It maybe noted that J. C. Moore identified A. grandis, with some doubt, from 

 Mr. Heneken's second sending of Santo Domingo fossils, in Q. J. Geol. Soc, ix, 

 1853. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



hinge is heavy, set with thin, very close, vertical teeth, the tooth-row 

 being curved down a little at the posterior end. Basal margin very 

 coarsely fluted within. 



Length 117, alt. 106, diam. of right valve 56 mm. 



Area chiriquiensis Gabb. Plate XL, figs 2, 3, (Chiriqui), 4-6 (S. Domingo). 

 Area chiriquiensis Gabb, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1860, p. 567, (1861). 

 Area (Scapharca) chiriquiensis Gabb, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 642. 

 ? Area patricia Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 52. 



The figures represent a type (Plate XL, fig. 2) and paratype (Plate 

 XL, figs. 3) . Plate XLI, figs. 1-3 are other specimens from the black- 

 ish shale at Chiriqui. It is equivalve, and the valves are alike ex- 

 cept that two or three more of the ribs are granulose in the left valve 

 than in the right. The prominent beaks are moderately to widely 

 separated by a broad, flat cardinal area marked with some angulate 

 grooves. The valves convex before the middle, flattened or even 

 very little concave behind it; about 10 posterior ribs in the left valve, 

 12 in the right, are nearly smooth, the rest being closely, or some- 

 times somewhat sparsely, granose. The ribs are weak on the pos- 

 terior slope. Intervening grooves are irregularly marked with 

 growth striae. 



Length 43, alt. 43 mm.; 29 ribs. 



Length 40, alt. 34, diam. 36 mm.; 30 ribs. 



Length 73, alt. 70mm.; 31 ribs (largest). 



Gabb subsequently considered A. chiriquiensis a synonym of 

 A. grandis, but it is not even closely related. 



The granulation is best developed in young or half-grown ex- 

 amples becoming more or less obsolete in old ones. Th,e degree of 

 separation of the beaks also varies. The lot of about 40 examples 

 from Chiriqui, collected by Dr. John Evans, shows but little other 

 variation. 



Santo Domingan specimens (Plate XL, figs 4, 5, 6) are less ex- 

 tensively granose and the beaks are less widely apart than in many 

 of the type lot, though agreeing with others. The concavity be- 

 hind the middle is slightly more marked. All of the specimens are 

 somewhat worn. 



Length 55, alt. 51, diam. of right valve 23 mm. 



Length 35, alt. 33, diam. 36 mm. 



Besides the above (no. 2722 Gabb Coll., numerous specimens), 

 some fragments were obtained by Mr. W. W. Webster on a stream 

 between Las Caobas and Hinche, Haiti. 



It appears likely that this species is the lost Area patricia of 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Sowerby, which has also been identified with A . grandis. It agrees 

 better than any other Santo Domingan species with the brief and 

 inconclusive diagnosis of that shell. Sowerby states that his species 

 has "rather more numerous" ribs than A. grandis, and that it "is 

 much more rounded at the inferior margin", "margine inferiori ro~ 

 tundato". As far as it goes, this applies to A. chiriquiensis; yet as 

 no definite information on the type specimen is available, the name 

 given by Gabb is preferred, since there is no doubt about its iden- 

 tity. 



Area chiriquiensis websteri Pilsbry. Plate XLI, fig 4. 



Area websteri Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1910, p. 488. 



This form is more lengthened than A. chiriquiensis and more of 

 the ribs are granose ; yet it is probably a form of chiriquiensis. The 

 type valve is figured. 



Length 44, alt. 35, semidiam. 18 mm. 



On a stream between Las Caobas and Hinche, Haiti, W.W. Web- 

 ster. 



Type no. 1312 A. N. S. P. 



Area dolaticosta Pils. and Johns. Plate XLI, figs. 5, 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 188. 

 Chiriqui. 



Area Scapharca) coccopleura Pils. and Johns. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 188. 

 = A. hispaniolana Maury. 



Area (Argina) tolepia (D?ll.). 



Scapharca (Argina) tolepia Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 649, pi. 33, figs. 7, 8 



This is one of the most abundant arks. By Gabb the specimens 

 were referred to A . grandis as young. It is somewhat variable. From 

 the adhering material it is evident that several beds are represent- 

 ed. 



Three forms seem to be distinguishable, additional to the typical 

 form. Whether these are species, or successive or synchronous mu- 

 tations of A . tolepia, cannot be determined until their stratigraphic 

 place is known. 



A . arthurpennelli Maury appears to be based upon part of Gabb 's 

 specimens. It may be distinct from tolepia, described from Rio 

 Amina. 



Area tolepia saxea Pill . and Johns. Plate XXXIX, fig. 10, 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 189. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



407 



Area tolepia scapularis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIX, figs. 13, 14. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 189. 



Area tolepia crassicardinis Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIX, figs. 11, 12. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 189. 



Area cyclica Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIX, figs. 15, 16. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 189. 



Area perfaceta Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXIX, flgs. 17, 18, 19, 20. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 190. 



Area pomponiana Pils. and Johns. Plate XLI1, flgs. 4, 5, 6. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 190. 



Area multilineata Gabb. Plate XL1I, flgs. 13, 14. 



Area multilineata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 254. 



This small, plump shell has triangular rounded contour, the an- 

 terior end narrowly, the posterior broadly rounded. Sculpture of 

 many radial ribs crossed by concentric threads over ribs and inter- 

 vals. In the median fourth the ribs widen towards the basal border 

 and the intervals remain simple, but over the rest of the valve inter- 

 stitial riblets arise in the intervals, about midway, and many of them 

 become as large as the primary ribs near the basal margin. The 

 cardinal area is narrow and smooth. Tooth row continuous, with 

 9 and 11 teeth, those of the posterior part strongly oblique, in the 

 anterior part slightly oblique. 



Length 10, alt. 9.5, diam. of right valve 4 mm. 



Type and three other right valves are no. 2652 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 36. Area maoica. 



Area maoica Maury. Text-flg. 36. 



Area cuneolus Pils. and Johns., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 191. 

 The figure represents the type of A. cuneolus, which is apparent- 

 ly a synonym of A . maoica Maury. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Area idiodon Pils. and Johns. Plate XLII, figs. 3, 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 191. 

 Wilmington, N. C. 



Glycymeris acuticostatus (Sowerby) 



Pectuncidus acuticostatits Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. SoC, vi, 1849, p. 53, pi. 10, fijr. 



13. 

 Axincea acuticostaia Sby., Gabb, Tr. Am. Philos Soc. XV, p. 255. 



A very abundant shell. No. 2645 A. N. S. P. 



Glycymeris approximans (Gabb) Plate XLII, figs. 7, 11, 13. 



Axincea approximans Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 255. 



A very thin species having about 42 rather strong, rounded ribs, 

 crossed by delicate, equally spaced concentric threads. The hinge 

 is remarkably narrow, but little curved, having 15 short but rather 

 high teeth. Margin with the deeply fluted band very narrow. 



Length 8.6, alt. 8.6, diam. of type valve 2.4 mm. 



Type and a smaller valve are no. 2650 A. N. S. P. 



There is another lot containing much larger but badly worn or 

 broken examples. The largest has an alt. of 21 mm., hinge with 

 about 18 teeth, the row interrupted mesially. 



Glycymeris santodomingensis Pils. and Johns. Plate XLII, flgs. 12, 18. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 192. 



Glycymeris diffidentiae Pils. and Johns. Plate XLII, flgs. 8, 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 192. 



PINNIDAE. 



Atrina sp. undet. 



Pinna sp., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 253. 



This species has more dorsal ribs than A. chipolana Dall. The 

 fragment is scarcely sufficient for specific definition. 



» 



PTERIIDAE. 



Pteria inornata (Gabb.) Plate XLII. figs. 6, 7. 



Avicida inornata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 253. 



All the specimens are broken. The largest (type) measures 24.7 

 mm. long, as figured. It is strongly convex. There is also an in- 

 terval cast no. 2641, which shows the shape much better than the 

 shells (Plate XLII, fig. 7). 



Type and numerous imperfect valves, no. 2748 A. N. S. P. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 

 OSTREIDAE. 



409 



Ostrea haitensis Sowerby. 



Ostrea haitensis Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 53. 



Ostrea haytensis Sby., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 257. 



It attains a length up to 14£ cm. 



Ostrea frons L. 



O.frons L., Gabb, Trans. Amei. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 258. 



Two valves, no. 2639, do not appear distinguishable from the 

 recent mangrove oyster. 



Ostrea vaughani insularis Pilsbry and Brown. 



Ostrea vaughani insularis Pils. and Brn., Proc A. N. S. Phila, 1917, p. 40, pi. 



6, figs. 1, la. 

 Ostrea virginica Gmel., in part, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 



267. 



Type is in no. 2635 A. N. S. P. No. 2634 contains young speci- 

 mens. 



Ostrea cahobasensis Pilsbry and Brown. 



Ostrea cahobasensis Pils. andBrn., Proc. A.N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 40, pi. 6, fig. 8. 

 Ostrea virginica Gmel., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 257. 



Numerous large and solid valves apparently belong to this species, 

 described from Haiti. 



Ostrea bolus Pils. and Johns. Plate XLIII, flgs. 2, 3. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 192. 



ANOMIIDAE. 

 Anomia sp. undet. 



A subcircular valve of 19 mm. diameter in which the muscle im- 

 pressions are not visible. Externally there is an excessively minute 

 and delicate sculpture of radial striae, visible only near the borders. 

 It is extremely similar to young shells of Anomia lisbonensis Aldrich 

 of the same size. The sculpture of the recent A . aculeata is far 

 coarser. 



Anomia gabbi PiLs. and Johns. Plate XLIII, fig. 1. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 193. 



PECTINIDAE. 



A single specimen identified by Gabb as Pecten magnificus Sby. 

 (p. 256) appears to be P. nodosus L., as Dr. Dall has stated (Trans. 

 Wagn. Inst. III). It retains the color almost as in a living shell. 

 We are much disposed to think that it may be Pleistocene. The 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



shell was not collected by Gabb personally, and nothing is known of 

 its stratigraphic position. 



Doctor Dall has recorded Pecten cactaceus Dall from "Tertiary 

 of Santo Domingo, Gabb"; but the species is not represented in 

 this collection. The same is true of Pecten (Plagioctenium) gabbi 

 Dall. 



Pecten soror (Gabb) Plate XLIV, figs. 1, 2. 



Janira soror Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873., p. 257. 



Gabb 's description was from right and left valves of two individ- 

 uals. His measurement is from the concave valve catalogued under 

 no. 2862, which may be considered type. It has about 19 rounded 

 ribs (not counting a few very faint ones on the submargins) parted 

 by wider intervals, the whole elegantly sculptured with close, reg- 

 ular and delicate concentric laminae (fig. 2). Alt. 47 mm. 



The convex valve has 23 strong ribs, slightly wider than their in- 

 tervals, somewhat flattened, and with similar concentric sculpture. 



Length 42.5, alt. 40.5, convexity 14.5 mm. 



There are also valves of several smaller individuals showing the 

 same characters. 



Pecten thetidis Sowerby. Plate XLIV, figs. 3, 6. 



Pecten thetidis Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 52. Not Pecten {AequU 



pecten) thetidis Sowerby, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, p. 714. 

 Pecten eugrammaticus Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, p. 712, pi. 34, fig. 2. 



The characteristic sculpture of this species has been well though 

 briefly described by Sowerby, in terms which preclude the identifi- 

 cation of thetidis with a species of the exasperatus group, by Guppy 

 and Dall. 



The shell is rather convex, slightly inequilateral, with 21 ribs 

 separated by V-shaped furrows. Except near the ends the ribs are 

 square-topped, having flat or furrowed summits and more or less 

 flange-like edges bearing unequal asperities. There is a beautiful 

 sculpture of fine, nearly regular concentric threads over the furrows 

 and slopes of the ribs. Submargins nearly or quite ribless. Ears 

 are small, and have about 5 slender ribs. No ctenolium. 



Length and alt. 24 mm. 



The species here defined and figured is the only one in the large 

 series which agrees with the Sowerby diagnosis. Gabb's collec- 

 tion covered the ground where the Heneken shells were obtained, and 

 contains practically all of the Heneken species, so that it may fairly 

 be inferred that the only species fulfilling the requirements of the 

 original diagnosis is the true thetidis. It is not an uncommon shell, 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



and varies rather widely in the degree of development of the rib- 

 ornamentation. 



In a form of this species which may be called Pecten thetidis pelei 

 (Plate XLIV, figs. 4, 5 ) the ribs have wider summits, more strongly 

 developed spinose flanges, and on the slopes of the ribs there are 

 one or two spinose riblets. The submargins and ears have a close 

 sculpture of spinose riblets. Alt. and length 28, semidiam. 11 mm. 



Type no. 2853 A. N. S. P. 



Pecten plurinominis Pils. and Johns. Plate XLV, figs, l, 2. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 193. 



Pecten scissuratus Dall. 



Pecten (Aequipecten) scissuratus Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, p. 715, pi. 34, 

 fig. 4. Brown and Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1911, p. 364, pi. 28. figs. 

 2, 5. 



The sculpture is highly developed in this species. 



Pecten interlineatus Gabb. Plate XLV, fig. 3. 



Pecten interlineatus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc ., xv, 1873, p. 256. 



On the left valve there are 15 or 16 rounded and not very high 

 major ribs, a riblet running in each interval; close to the base there 

 are two or three in each interval. Anterior submargin with about six 

 riblets, posterior ribs and riblets are granose. The anterior ear 

 has few fine riblets, posterior ear coarse ribs. There is a fine con- 

 centric sculpture of regular hair-lines, but more or less wholly worn 

 from the summits of the ribs. The right valve is a trifle less convex 

 with the same sculpture except that both ears have fine riblets. 

 Four well-developed teeth in the short ctenolium. 



Length 23, alt. 24.7, diam. 7.2 mm. 



Type no. 2856 A. N. S. P. 



Pecten oxygonum Sowerby. Plate XLV, flgs. 4, 5, 6. 



Pecten oxygonum Sowb., Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 52. 



A series of 26 valves seems to be referable to Sowerby 's species. 

 Doctor Dall has shown that neither of the specimens now pre- 

 served in the typical tray of Sowerby 's collection agree with the 

 diagnosis. 



The 18 or 19 ribs have either distinctly angular or very narrowly 

 rounded summits. There are fine, thread-like concentric striae. 

 Submargins plain. The left valve is more convex than the right. 

 There is no ctenolium. 



Length and alt. 26.3, convexity 7.2 mm. (Left valve figured). 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Peten augusticostatus Gabb, Plate XLV, figs. 7, 8. 



Pecten augusticostatus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 256. 



The sole specimen of this species is a left valve. It has 22 ribs. 

 These are very high and acute, in section like an inverted V. Their 

 slopes and intervals have an extremely fine, regular raised concentric 

 striation. The anterior submargin has several very low ribs, and 

 there are a few delicate riblets on the adjacent ear. 



Length 24.3, alt. 23.8, convexity 8 mm. 



Type no. 2866 A. N. S. P. 



While this species is closely related to the preceding, it should 

 be retained distinct until connecting specimens are found. It 

 differs by the more numerous, far sharper ribs, the low ribs on the 

 anterior submargin, the greater convexity, and the finer concentric 

 striation. 



There cannot be much doubt that the name as printed is an 

 error for augusticostatus. Gabb was in Costa Rica when his paper 

 was printed, and did not see the proofs. 



Pecten uselmse Pils. and Johns. Plate XLV, fig. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 194. 



Bowden, Jamaica. Type no. 11124 A. N. S. P. 



Pecten inaequalis Sowerby. Plate XLV, fig. 11. 



Pecten inaequalis Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 52. Not P inaequ- 

 alis of Guppy or of Dall. 



This is an abundant Aequipecten in the collection. It is nearly 

 equilateral, distinctly inequivalve. There are rounded ribs and 

 concave intervals in both valves, the ribs in the left valve as wide 

 as the intervals, in the right valve decidedly narrower. The great- 

 est number of specimens have 19 ribs; many have 20 and the ex- 

 tremes, represented by a few, are 18 and 22 ribs. A very fine con- 

 centric sculpture of hair-like threads runs over both ribs and in- 

 tervals, but is usually a good deal worn. 



Length 38.5, alt. 37.3 mm. 



The figures represent both valves of one individual. So far as we 

 know, the species has been found only in Santo Domingo. 



Pecten eccentricus Gabb. Plate XLV, fig. 12. 



Pecten eccentricus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 256. 



Pecten (Plagioctenium) excentricus Gabb, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 717. 



This species is distinctly inequilateral. The type has 21 ribs, 

 separated by wide, rather shallow intervals, and sculptured with 

 very fine, close concentric threads, mainly lacking anteriorly. The 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



narrow tops of the ribs are a little flattened. Ears wanting in the 

 type. It is a good deal like the right valve of P. inaequalis except 

 that it is inequilateral. 



Length 32, alt. 30 mm. 



Type no. 2854 A. N. S. P. 



Pecten (Amusium?) correctus Pils. and Johns. Plate XLV. flg. 13. 



Pecten opercidaris Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 256. 

 Pecten correctus Pils. and Johns. Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 194. 



Pecten ischnon Pils. and Johns. Plate XLIV, flgs. 7, 8 (type), 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 194. 



The concentric lineolation appears to be confined to the more 

 convex valve. 



Amusium papyraceum Gabb Plate XL1II, figs. 8, 9. 



Pleuronectia papyracea Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 257. 



Smooth, with unsculptured beaks. The flatter valve is gently 

 convex in the middle, with a broad, shallow concavity on each side. 

 The type measures: Alt. 52, length 54 mm. 



Type no. 2864 A. N. S. P. 



SPONDYLIDAE. 



Spondylus bostrychites Guppy. 



Spondylus bifrons Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, p. 53. Not of Goldfuss, 



1835. 

 Spondylus bostrychites Guppy, Proc. Sci. Soc, Trinidad 1867, p. 176. Gabb, 

 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 257. Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 758; 

 Bull. 90, U. S. N. M. p. 124. 



Abundant, and in fine preservation. 



Spondylus gumanomocon Brown and Pilsbry. Plate" XLIII, flgs. 4, 5. 



Spondylus americanus Lam., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 257. 

 Spondylus gumanomocon Brown and Pilsbry, Proc A. N. S. Phila., 1912, p. 

 514, footnote 4. 



Type no. 2869 A. N. S. P. 



A ponderous, very large species. The figures are much reduced. 



Plica tula gibbosa Lamarck (variety). 



Plicalula cristata Lam., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 257. 

 The single perfect specimen reported by Gabb appears to be 

 identical with this common recent species, except that in places 

 fine radial striation or crinkling may be seen under the lens. No 

 color markings are preserved. 



DIMYACIDAE. 



Dimya grandis Dall. 



Dirnya grandis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 328, with var. divaricala; 

 Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 764, pi. 35, fig. 8. 

 Three valves of the typical form and two of var. divaricala were 

 found among unassorted oyster valves. 




414 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



MYTILIDAE. 



Modiolaria sp. undet. 



Modiola sp. Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 252. 

 Two very small valves (length about 3.25 mm), belong apparently 

 to the typical section of Modiolaria. 



Modiolus sp. undet. 



An internal cast, found with the following species. 



Lithophaga antillarum Orbigny. 

 Lithodomus corrugalus Phil., Gabb, Trans.. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 253. 

 These mussels were preserved in their burrows. They appear 

 typical of the species. 



Fig. 37. Crenella diuturna. Fig. 38. Crenella rota. 



Crenella diuturna Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 37; Plate XXXVIII, fig. 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 195. 



Crenella rota Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 38. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 195. 



PANDORIDAE. 



Pandora inconspicua Gabb. Plate XXXVIII, figs. 8, 9. 



Pandora inconspicua Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 248. 



Convex (fig. 8) and flat (fig. 9) valves are photographed. The 

 former is selected as type; length 7, alt. 3.3 mm. 



Type and paratypes are no. 2676 A. N. S. P. 



CUSPIDAR1IDAE. 

 Cuspidaria ornatior Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVIII, figs. 11, 12. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 195. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



415 



Cuspidaria gabbi Pils. and Johns. Plate XXXVIII, fig. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 195. 



Very similar to C. islahispaniolce Maury, but the figure of that 

 shows a longer rostrum. 



CRASSATELLITIDAE . 



Crassatellites reevei (Gabb). 



Crassatella antillarum Reeve? (C. reevei Gabb), Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. 



Soc, xv, 1873, p. 252. 

 Crassatellites reevei Gabb, Brown and Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1912, p. 



515, pi. 23, fig. 5. 



Type is no. 2687 A. N. S. P. 

 Crassatellites (Crassinella) guppyi radiata n. subsp. Plate XXXVIII, fig. 4. 



The shell is similar to C. guppyi Dall in having narrow concentric 

 ribs (twelve in number in the type), and in having a distinct mi- 

 croscopic concentric striation over ribs and intervals, but it differs 

 from Bowden guppyi compared by having a fine, even radial stria- 

 tion, barely visible under a good hand lens, the striae impressed, 

 cutting the concentric striation and passing over ribs and intervals. 



Length 3.55, alt. 3.35, semidiam. 0.9 mm. 



Type no. 3994 A. N. S. P. 



Crassatellites (Crassinella) microdelta Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 40. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 196. 



Crassatellites (Crassinella) dolatus Pils. and Johns. Text-fig. 39. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 196. 



Fig. 39. Crassatellites dolatus. Fig. 40. C. microdelta. 



Veneiicardia aversa Pils. and Johns. Plate XLV, fig. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 196. 



Venericardia santodomingensis Pils. and Johns. Plate XLV, fig. 14. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 197. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



CHAMIDAE. 



Chama chipolana Dall. 



Chama macrophylla Chemn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 



251. 

 Chama chipolana Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1398; Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. 



90, p. 135, pi. 25, figs. 9, 11. 



One characteristic valve. 



Chama tampaensis Dall. 



Chama tampaensis Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, 1903, p. 1398, pi. 54, fig. 6; 

 Bull. 90, U. S. N. M., p. 135, pi. 24, fig. 1. 



One specimen, the valves together, agrees with Tampa examples. 



Chama involuta Guppy. 



Chama involuta Guppy, Geol. Mag. Dec. ii, vol. i, 1874, p. 444, pi. 17, figs. 5a- 

 c. 



Five characteristic valves, like Guppy 's fig. 5c, and agreeing with 

 Bowden examples. 



This and the two preceding species were labelled Chama macro- 

 phylla in the Gabb collection. They have been compared care- 

 fully with numerous specimens from type localities of the respective 

 species. 



Echinochama yaquensis trachyderma Pils. and Johns. Plate XL VI, figs. 1, 2. 

 Echinochama trachyderma P. andJ., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 197. 

 Echinochama antiquata Dall, Maury, Bull. Amer. Pal. V, pi. 33, fig. 10. 



A smaller form with fewer, less prominent radial ribs has been 

 named Echinochama antiquata var. yaquensis Maury. A few of 

 these are in the Gabb collection. The larger form with more ribs 

 which we named trachyderma should apparently be called C. yaquen- 

 sis trachyderma. 



Type 2786 A. N. S. P. 



» 



LUCINIDAE. 



Phacoides riocanensis Maury. 



Lucina jamaicensis Chemn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 251. 

 Three fine specimens (no. 2666), the largest with an altitude of 

 of 84 mm. Very close to P. hillsboroensis (Heilpr.). 



Phacoides perplexus Pils. and Johns. Text-flg. 41. Plate XXXVIII, fig. 3. 

 Phacoides perplexus Pils. & Johns., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 197. 

 Lucina antUlarum Reeve, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 251. 



This species has fewer radial ribs than P. actinus Dall, and their 

 intervals are quite shallow. The lunule in the left valve is semi- 

 cordiform, being about half as wide as long. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



417 



Phacoides (Parvilucina) pupulus Pils. and Johns. Text-flg. 42; Plate XXXVIII flg. 2. 



Phacoides (Parvilucina) pupulus P. & J., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 198. 



Lucina crenulata Con., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 251. 

 Phacoides (Lucinisca) muricatus (Spengler) 



Lucina tigerina Linn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 251. 



Phacoides (Lucinisca) muricatus Spengler, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1373. 



Six specimens, no. 3162, appear to us identical with this recent 

 species. 



Phacoides (Parvilucina) yaquensis (Gabb) 



Lucina yaquensis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 251. 

 Phacoides (Parvilucina) yaquensis Gabb, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1382. 



The sculpture is of delicate, raised, concentric lines and almost 

 obsolete radials. Length 3.8, alt. 3.5 diam. of a right valve 

 1.2 mm. Type no. 2772 A. N. S. P. There are many other valves 

 in the lot. 



Fig. 41. Phacoides perplexus P. and J. Fig. 42. Phacoides pupulus P. and J. 



Lucina janus Dall. 



Lucina janus Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1353, pi. 51, fig. 9. 

 A number of specimens show variation in degree of inflation, 

 but none are so nearly spherical as L. corpulenta Dall. I have had 

 the advantage of a comparison with the Chipolan type by Doctor 

 Dall. 



Lucina mauryae Pils. and Johns. Plate XLV1, flg. 3. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 198. 



The dimensions of the type should be, length 36.3, alt 33.5. diam. 

 18.5 mm. It becomes a little larger. 



Lucina bulla (Gabb) Plate XLVI. flg. 6. 



Cardium (Serripes) bulla Gabb. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 251. 

 The somewhat prosogyrate beaks are a little in front of the middle. 

 There is an extremely narrow and small lunule. The surface is 

 somewhat roughened by growth-lines; on the posterior and anterior 




418 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



slopes the rugosity is greater. Posteriorly a few minute short 

 wrinkles run more obliquely towards the basal margin. In suitable 

 light, very weak traces of radial sculpture are discernible. It 

 was probably very little alate in front of the beaks, but the shell is 

 broken away there. 



Length 44; alt. 40, diam. 23.7 mm. 



Type no. 2763 A. N. S. P. 



The type is an excellent specimen except for some breakage of the 

 anterior margin. The hinge is not visible, but the characters, so 

 far as shown, are those of a Lucinid shell and not of a Cardium. 



There is also a broken and distorted specimen. 



Divaricella proletaria Pils. and Johns. Plate XLII, flg. 1, 2. 



Divaricella proletaria P. & J., Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 198. 

 Lucina dentata Wood, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 251. 



D. prevaricata Guppy is of the same size, but according to Dall 's 

 figure of the type (Proc. U. S. N. Mus., XIX, plate XXX, fig. 4) it 

 has closer divaricating grooves. 



DIPLODONTIDAE. 



Diplodonta (Phlyctiderma) gabbi Dall. Text-fig. 43. 



Mysia subquadrata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 252. Not 

 Diplodonta subquadrata Carpenter, P. Z. S., 1855, p. 230. 

 D. [iplodonta] gabbi Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1183, footnote. 

 Diplodonta (Phlyctiderma) puncturella Dall, t. c, p. 1183. 



Externally this species has an extreme- 

 ly minute, irregular but dense puncta- 

 tion, the pits more or less anastomosing, 

 forming a sort of network where most 

 perfectly preserved. There is some vari- 

 ation in contour, some examples having 

 the anterior end less rounded than that 

 figured. The largest valve (figured) 

 measures, length 5.6, alt. 5.4, diam. 1.65 

 mm. 



Type is no. 2693 A. N. S. P. 

 We have not compared specimens of the Bowden D. puncturella 

 Dall, which from the description and figure appears not to differ 

 from gabbi. Dall had not seen the latter, apparently. 



Fig. 43. Diplodonta 

 gabbi Dall. Type. 



Diplodonta dedecoris n. sp. Text-fig. 44d.e. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 198. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



419 



Diplodonta (Sphserella) capuloides (Gabb) Text-fig. 44 a, b,c, 



Mysia capuloides Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 252. 



The shell is much inflated, with sculpture of very minute, but well 



developed concentric striae. Beaks large and prominent. The 



right anterior and posterior cardinal teeth are both bifid. The edge 



of the valve is noticeably reflected upward above the cardinal teeth. 



Length 5.2, alt. 5, semidiam. 2.4 mm. 

 ' Type arid two paratypes no. 2694 A. N. S. P. All are right valves. 

 On account of the inflated form and peculiar hinge this species 

 appears to belong to the subgenus Sphcerella Conrad. 



Fig. 44. a, b, c. Diplodonta capuloides Gabb; d, e, D. dedecoris P. and J. 



SPORTELLIDAE. 



Sportella lioconcha Dall. 



Sportella lioconcha Dall, Trans. Wagner Inst., iii, p. 1128, pi. 44, fig. 24 (Oligo- 

 cene sands of Oak Grove, Florida). 



A valve agreeing with this species measures, length 11.5, alt. 8, 

 semidiam. 2.6 mm. 



Neaeromya quadrata (Gabb) Text-flg. 45a-e. 



Nearomya quadrata Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 247; Proc. 



A. N. S. Phila. 1872, p. 274, pi. 10, figs. 4, la, 46. 

 Nemomya (=Erycina) quadrata Gabb, Dall, Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., 



iii, pt. 5, p. 1140, 1143. 



Besides some fragments, there are in Gabb 's type lot three specimens 

 showing the hinge. Two of these, the originals of Gabb's figures 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



la, 46, are redrawn. The valve shown in fig 45 a, 6, c, may be taken 

 as type of the species and genus. The lateral teeth described and 

 figured by Gabb do not exist, the surfaces where they would stand 

 being flat. The hinges of small Leptonid bivalves are hard to make 

 out, and we attribute Gabb 's mistake to the use of a low-power hand 

 lens, instead of the compound microscope. 



The external surface shows an extremely minute radial rugosity, 

 or irregular lineolation, under high magnification. Concentric 

 sculpture is very slight. The prodissoconch has a circular outline, 

 like that of Sportella (fig. e) . 



Length 6.2, alt. 4.2 mm. (Fig. 45 a) . 



It is plain that the species is not a typical Erycina; the hinge being 

 more like Pseudopythina or Sportella. Not being expert in the study 

 of Leptonacea, the species is left under the original generic name. 



Fig. 45. Neceromya quadrata Gabb, a, b, interior and dorsal views of right 

 valve, type; c, enlarged cardinal detail of same;d, e, interior and dorsal 

 views of a smaller left valve. 



Type no. 2787 A. N. S. P. 



CARDIIDAE. 



We may note in this connection that by a typographical error 

 Cardium durum was spelled durun in Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1912, p. 

 516. It was correctly spelled on pp. 501 and 519. 



Cardium (Trachycardium) domincanum Dall. 



Cardium (Trachycardium) dominicanum Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1082 7 . 



pi. 48, fig. 16. 

 C. {Trachycardium) subelongatum Sby., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 



p. 250. 




1921 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Cardium (Trachycardium) dominicense Gabb. Plate XXV, figs. 8, 9. 



Cardium dominicense Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 250; Journ • 

 A. N. S. Phila. viii, p. 344. Pilsbry and Brown, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1911, 

 p. 367 (Gatun). 



The ribs, except on the posterior slope, are smooth and rounded, 

 separated by narrow grooves. On the anterior end the ribs show- 

 small erect processes or the scars where they have been. There are 

 also quite small processes along the posterior sides of the rest of the 

 ribs, nearly all worn off. On the posterior area each rib is split, 

 alternate ones of the resulting riblets bearing erect, oblique pro- 

 cesses. The posterior end is deeply serrate, each primary rib pro- 

 jecting. There are about 54 primary ribs. 



The whole basal margin is broken away, so that the true length 

 does not show in the figure. The type measures : length 38, alt. 44 

 (estimated), diam. of one valve 15 mm. 



Several young shells are more rounded in outline, and the ribs are 

 very closely spinose towards the margins. The posterior ribs show 

 only a trace of splitting. (No. 2769 A. N. S. P.). 



Type no. 2764 A. N. S. P. 



Cardium linguatigris Maury appears to resemble this species 

 rather closely. 



Cardium tintinnabularum Maury. 

 One imperfect valve. 



Cardium (Trigoniocardia) haitense Sowerby. 



Cardium haitense Sowerby, Q. J. Geol. Soc, vi, 1849, p. 52, pi. 10, fig.ll. 

 C. (Fragum) haitense Sby., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 251. 

 Cardium (Laevicardium) serratum L. 



Cardium (Laevicardium) serratum L., Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1112. 

 Not recorded by Gabb, who left the specimens without name. 

 They are rather small, alt. 23 mm., but characteristic. 

 Cardium (Laevicardium) venustum Gabb. Plate XXV, figs. 2. 7. 



C. (Laevicardium) venustum Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 251 . 

 The shell is longer than high, transversely oval, with very convex, 

 but somewhat narrow and markedly prosogyrate beaks, which 

 project far more above the hinge outline than in C. serratum. The 

 anterior and posterior areas are smooth, the median portion finely 

 ribbed, the ribs low, flattened, much wider than the intervals, which 

 are closely and finely striated transversely. There are about 50 ribs. 

 The right anterior cardinal tooth is peg-like, higher than the poste- 

 rior. Lateral teeth compressed, the posterior, especially, much 

 thinner than in C. serratum. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Length 33, alt. 31, diam. of one valve 13 mm. 



Type no. 2768 A. N. S. P. 



This species has been placed in the synonymy of C. serratum, but 

 it seems to me distinct by the far larger beaks, of a different shape, 

 and the differences in the teeth. In C. serratum the beaks are much 

 wider and lower, even in specimens of far greater size. The sculp- 

 ture described may possibly be due to disintegration of the outer 

 layer, though we see no evidence that this is the case. 



VENERIDAE. 



Macrocallista Chionella macula ta (L.) 



M. (C.) maeulata L., Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1256. 

 Agrees closely with recent specimens externally. As the valves 

 are together the interior could not be compared. 



Macrocallista (Chionella) planivieta (Guppy) 



Cytherea (Callista) planivieta Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc.,xxii, 1866, p. 292, pi. 



18, fig. 3. 

 Callista planivieta Guppy, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 250. 



One typical right valve (no. 2670). 



Pitar tryonianus (Gabb) Plate XLVI1, flg. 11. 



Callista tryoniana Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 250. 



This shell is not unlike the recent P. fulminata Mke. (varians 

 Hanley), but is thinner, a little plumper, with the beaks turned for- 

 ward a little more. The sculpture is of very fine, close, even and 

 smooth concentric threads, which are flattened and wider in the 

 median part, where unworn; the beaks smooth in the median con- 

 vexity. The lunule is defined by a weakly impressed line. 



Length 28, alt. 23.3, semidiameter 8.4 mm. 



Type no. 2757 A. N. S. P.; a left valve. 



Cf . Pitaria cercadica Maury, which appears to be the same species. 



The emendation of Pitar into Pitaria was an arbitrary proceed- 

 ing. There are many non-Latin generic and specific names which 

 might equally well be changed to give them a Latin dress. 



Pitar i Hyphantosoma carbaseus (Guppy) 



Cytherea (Circe) carbasea Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, 1866, p. 292, pi. 18, 



fig. 13. 

 Callista carbasea Guppy, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 250. 

 Pitaria (Hyphantosoma ) carbasea Guppy, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 

 1266. 

 Six specimens contained in trays no. 2664 and 2679. 



Pitar (Lamelliconcha) acuticostatus (Gabb) Plate XLVII, flg. 10. 



Callista acuticostata Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, 1873, p. 250. 

 The sculpture consists of close, nearly equal, thin concentric ribs 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



of which every second one rises lamina-like at the anterior end. The 

 lunule is quite small, marked by a rather weak impressed line. The 

 pallial sinus is horizontal, rounded at the end, and reaches beyond 

 the middle of the length. 



Length 25.5, alt. 22, semidiameter 7.2 mm. 



Type is no. 2776 A. N. S. P., a left valve. A series of smaller 

 valves is contained in no. 2775. 



This shell is shorter and more acutely sculptured than P. concin- 

 nus Sowb. 



Cytherea > Antigona) tarquinia (Dall) 



Venus magnified Hanley, Gabb, Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. xv, p. 259. 



Venus tarquinia Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1194, pi. 38, fig. 2. (Ballast 



Point, Florida). 

 Cytherea tarquinia Dall, t. c. p. 1274. 

 Antigona tarquinia Dall, U. S. Nat. Mus., 90, p. 147. 



Fine specimens, up to a length of 77 mm. It is probably ances- 

 tral to the recent C. listen, in which the concentric sculpture is much 

 more strongly developed. 



While Cytherea magnified is related, it differs by the wider, flatter 

 radial striae. 



Chione Lirophora paphia (L.) 



Chione pappia Linn., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 249. 

 ? Chione (Lirophora) hendersonii Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1295. 



Five valves, no. 2669. We cannot distinguish them from the re- 

 cent species. Numerous specimens from Jamaica (no. 11041), which 

 are apparently referable to C. hendersonii Dall, do not seem to be 

 specifically distinct. 



Chione santodomingensis Pils. and Johns. Plate XL VII, figs. 1, 2. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 199. 



Chione socia Pils. and Johns. Plate XL VII , figs. 12, 13. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 199. 



Chione primigenia Pils. and Johns. Plate XLVII, figs. 6, 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 199. 



Chione guppyana Gabb. Plate XLVII, figs. 3, 4, 5. 



Chione guppyana Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 249. 



A peculiarity of this species is that the ventral faces of some or all 

 of the concentric lamellae have about twice as many ribs as there 

 are in the intervals. This is shown in the detail photographed in 

 fig. 4. It is a rather plump, rounded shell, related to C. woodwardi 

 Guppy. 



Length 31.3, alt. 30 mm. Type no. 2773. 



Length 32.5, alt. 29, diam. 22.3 mm. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Cytherea (Ventricola) blandiana (Guppy) 



Chione circinata Born, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 250. 



Venus blandiana Guppy, Geol. Mag. Dec. 11, vol. i, 1874, p. 444, pi. 17, fig. 8. 



Cytherea (Ventricola) blandiana Guppy, Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 1277. 



This fine species reaches a length of 43 mm. Guppy 's figure is 

 very inadequate. 



Cyclinella cyclica domingensis Pils. and Johns. Plate XL VII, fig. 8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 200. 



Dosinia azuana Pils. and Johns. Plate XL VII, fig. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 200. 



TELLINIDAE. 



Tellina sp. undet. 



? Tellina jmnicea Born, Gabb. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 248. 

 An imperfect internal cast in a hard rock, no. 2788, resembles this 

 species in outline but is more convex. It was not labelled, but may 

 possibly represent Gabb's T. punicea. No specimens were found 

 under that name in the collection. 



Tellina .Eury tellina) n. sp. 



A weakly grooved left valve, which has been broken into several 

 pieces and repaired, apparently belongs to an undescribed species. 

 It is no. 3200 A. N. S. P. 



Tellina alternata Say. 



Tellina alternata Say, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 248. 

 There is a set of T. alternata in the collection labelled "U. S." 

 possibly from Santo Domingo or Costa Rica, but without Gabb's 

 MS. label. We cannot, therefore, confirm or reject Gabb's record. 

 This and T. punicea are the only species mentioned by Gabb which 

 we have not been able to trace in the collection. 



Tellina minuta Gabb. Text-fig. 46a, b. 



Tellina (Perorweoderma) minuta Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, 

 p. 249. 



The shape is subcircular rather than "suboval". Left valve 

 without lateral teeth, and a little plumper than the right. Exter- 

 nally there are very fine, evenly spaced concentric lines with flat 

 intervals, much as in T. alternata except that the sculpture is very 

 flat and superficial. It is quite thin, and the internal impressions 

 are faint. 



Length 5.5, alt. 4.75 mm. 



Type no. 2789 A. N. S. P. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



425 



Semele delimata Pils. and Johns. Plate XLVI, flg. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 200. 



Semele firma Pils. and Johns. Plate XLVI, flg. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 200. 



Tellina (Merisca) errati Pils. and Johns. Plate XLI, flg. 7. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 201. 



Tellina (Moerella) simpsoni Dall. 



T. (M.) simpsoni Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, p. 1024, pi. 46, fig. 12. 

 According to Dall, "this form is what Gabb identified as T. 

 cuneata d'Orb. " but in the vial labelled T. cuneata (no. 2663) we 

 find only a worn valve of some Erycinid form. 



Fig. 46. Tellina minuta Gabb; inside and exterior of the type valve. 



Tellina (Cyclotellina) fausta Donovan. 



T. (Arcopagia ) fausta Don., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p, 249. 

 . The outside of a single almost perfect specimen (no. 2695) does 

 not differ materially from this recent species. As the valves are 

 closed, no details of the interior are accessible. 



Metis efferta Pils. and Johns. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 201. 



Metis chipolana Dall (?).. Plate XLVI, flg. 7. 



Metis chipolana Dall, Trans. Wagn. Inst., iii, 1900, p. 1042, pi. 47, fig. 21. 

 Tellina (Macoma) constricta Brug., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 

 249. 



. A single Santo Domingan example (no. 2671) differs from the 

 type by having the posterior end broader, the radial striation is less 

 distinct, and the concavity of the right valve more extensive; yet 

 we do not think it specifically separable. Length 37.3, alt. 32, diam. 

 15 mm. 




426 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part II 



Metis postrema Pils. and Johns. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 201. 



Strigilla pisiformis (L.) 



Strigilla pisiformis Linn., Gabb, Trans. Amsr. Philos. Sac. XV, p. 249. 

 Abundant. 



DONACIDAE. 



Donax aequalis Gabb. Text-flg. 47. 



Donax aequalis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 249. 



Fig. 47. Donax aequalis Gabb. 



The shell is unusually equilateral for this genus. The type, a 

 right valve, measures, length 7.8, alt. 5.5, semidiameter 2 mm. No. 

 2668 A. N. S. P. 



SOLENIDAE 



Siliqua subaequalis Gabb. Text-flg. 48. 



S. subaequalis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 247 . 



Fig. 48. Siliqua subaequalis Gabb. 



This shell is extremely delicate and fragile. The rather strong 

 internal rib extends two-thirds of the distance to the lower border. 

 Length 19, alt. 7, semidiameter 1.5 mm. 

 Type and four other valves no. 2677 A. N. S. P. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



MACTRIDAE. 



Mactra dariensis Dall. 



Mactrella alata Spengler, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos., Soc, xv, p. 248. 



Two specimens in hard gray rock, one an internal cast, the other 

 retaining part of the shell, seem to be referable to this species de- 

 scribed from the Oligocene of the Canal Zone. The best specimen 

 has the sharp grooves on both sides of the beaks described by Dall, 

 and the shape agrees well. 



Gabb's identification was evidently hasty, as little resemblance 

 to M . alata can be traced. 



Labiosa (Raeta) gabbi. Pils. and Johns. Plate XLVI, fig. u. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1917, p. 202. 



CORBULIDAE. 



Corbula vieta Guppy. 



Corbula disparilis d'Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 247. 

 Corbula vieta Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, xxii, p. 580, pi. 26, fig. 8. 



Da!l, Trans. Wagn. Inst, iii, p. 849. 

 Erycina tensa Guppy, Q. J. Geol. Soc, xxii, p. 582, pi. 22, fig. 6, (left valve). 



Gabb. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 252. 



Gabb considered vieta to be identical with disparilis; the resem- 

 blance is certainly great, but according to Dr. Dall, the small 

 differential features are constant. 



Corbula sericea Dall. 



Corbula lavaleana d'Orb., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 247. 

 Corbula sericea Dall, Tr. Wagn. Inst., iii, p. 848, pi. 36, fig. 8. 



Corbula knoxiana fossilis n. subsp. Plate XLVI, fig. 14. 



Corbula contracta Say, Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 247. 

 Not of Say. 



The specimens agree well in form with C. knoxiana C. B. Ad. 

 except that the carina projects decidedly less. The type, a right 

 valve, measures length 8.7, alt. 6, diam. 3 mm. 



Type no. 2689 A. N. S. P. 



Corbula dominicensis Gabb. Plate XLVI, figs. 12, 13. 



Corbula dominicensis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 247. 



The right valve is slightly larger. Sculpture of concentric ribs, 

 abrupt on their upper edges, sloping on the lower. On the posterior 

 half the number of ribs is nearly doubled, by splitting. In the left 

 valve the ribs are simple throughout, not split posteriorly. 



Ridge to the sharp posterior angle is acute. 



Length 14.6, alt. 9, diam. 6 mm. 



Type is no. 2691 A. N. S. P. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Corbula Bothrocorbulai viminea Guppy. 



Bothrocorbida viminea Guppy, Gabb, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 247. 

 Bothrocorbula viminea Guppy, Gabb, Proc. A. N. S. Phfla. 1872, p. 274, pi. 

 10, figs. 3, 3a. 

 The specimens agree well with those of the Bowden bed. 



GASTROCHAENIDAE. 



Rocellaria sp. undet. 



Rocellaria sp.? Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 246. 

 Two minute valves about 3 mm. long scarcely permit identifica- 

 tion of species, though showing presence of the genus. No. 2678. 



PHOLADIDAE. 



i ■ 

 Martesia sanctipauli Maury. 



Martesia sp. indet. Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, p. 246. 

 An imperfect valve is apparently referrable to M. sanctipauli. 

 The length of the specimen as broken is 3.7 mm. No. 2672 A. N. 

 S. P. 



TEREDINIDAE. 



Teredo (Kuphus) mcrassata (Gabb) 



Kuphus incrassatus Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 249; Journ. 

 A. N. S. Phila., viii, 1881, p. 342, pi. 44, figs. 12 a-c. 



Type lot is no. 2785 A. N. S. P. 



Teredo sp. undet. 



? Teredo sp. undet., Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, xv, 1873, p. 246. 

 Two groups of tubes about 10 mm. in diameter, in hard rock. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Explanation of Plates XVI-XLVII. 



Drawings, photographs and retouching by Helen Winchester. The line figures 

 in. the text were drawn by the author. 



Plate XVI. — Fig. 1,2. — Drillia macilenta Dall. Length 37.5 mm. and 44 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Drillia consors Sowb. Length 41.5 mm. 

 Fig. 4, 5. — Drillia squamosa Gabb. Type. Length 56.5 mm. 

 Fig. 6. — Drillia callistopleura Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 22.4 mm. 

 Fig. 7, 8. — Drillia ivinchesterae n. sp. Type. Length 26.3 mm. 

 Fig. 9.— Drillia elocata n. sp. Type. Length 25.4 mm. 

 Fig. 10, 11. — Clathurella gracilis Gabb. Type. Length 28.3 mm. 

 Fig. 12. — Drillia callistura Gabb. Type. Length 21.7 mm. 

 Fig. 13. — Drillia mimula Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 16.7 mm. 

 Fig. 14. — Drillia subgihbosa Pils. & Johns. Cotype. Length 46 mm. 

 Fig. 15. — Drillia ischnatracta Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 53.4 mm. 

 Fig. 16, 17. — Drillia scala Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 45.4 mm. 

 Fig. 18. — Drillia esculenta Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 13.2 mm. 

 Fig. 19. — Drillia orlhopleura Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 13.7 mm 

 Fig. 20. — Drillia foveolata Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 14.1 mm. 

 Fig. 21. — Drillia parkeri Gabb. Type. Length. 26.8 mm. 



Plate XVIL— Fig.l— Turris rara Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 2. — Surcula longicaudata (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 3. — Drillia henekeni (Sowb.). 



Fig. 4, 5. — Surcula humerosa (Gabb). Type and paratype. 

 Fig. 6. — Drillia sororcula Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Drillia gatunensis alia n. subsp. • Type. 

 Fig. 8. — Drillia fusiformis (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 9. — Cythara heptagona (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 10. — Cythara polygona (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 11, 12. — Clavatula labiata Gabb. Type and paratype. 

 Fig. 13. — Clathurella arnica Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 14. — Drillia venusta (Sowb.). 

 Fig. 15. — Glyphostoma dentiferum Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 16. — Scobinella magnifica (Gabb). Type. 



Fig. 17, 18. — Scobinella tristis Pils. & Johns. Back and face of type. 

 Fig. 19, 20. — Borsonia varicosa Gabb. Views of opposite sides of the sum- 

 mit of a quite perfect paratype. 

 Fig. 21. — Borsonia varicosa Gabb. Type. 



Plate XVIIL— Fig. 1.— Drillia hexapleura Pils. & Johns. Type. No. 2908. 

 Fig. 2. — Borsonia recurvirostris Gabb. Type. Length 9.6 mm. 

 Fig. 3.— Cythara elevala (Gabb). Type. No. 3224. 

 Fig. 4. — Clathurella paupercula (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 5. — Drillia lissotropis dorsuosa Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 6.— Cythara elongata (Gabb). Type. No. 2917. 

 Fig. 7. — Odostomia dulcis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 8. — Anachis (?) quadrata (Gabb). Type. Length 8.7 mm. 

 Fig. 9. — Strombina caribaa Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 10, 11. — Strombina caribcea micra Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 12. — Dentalium sagittarii Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 13. — Anachis exilis (Gabb). Type. 



Fig. 14. — Columbella inflata (Gabb). Type. Length 25.6 mm. 

 Fig. 15. — Strombina politissima Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 16. — Metulella fusiformis Gabb. Type. Length 18.5 mm. 

 Fig. 17. — Anachis gracilicostala Pils. & Johns. Type. No. 2803. 

 Fig. 18. — Metulella dominicensis Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 16.4 mm 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Plate XIX. — Fig. 1. — Conus haytensis Sowb. Length 107 mm. 



Fig. 2. — Conus recognitus Guppy. Length 69 mm. 



Fig. 3. — Conns bonaczyi Gabb. Type. Length 21.5 mm. 



Fig. 4. — Conus longitudinalis Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 35 mm. 



Fig. 5. — Conus haytensis polilispira n. subsp. Type. Length 65 mm. 



Fig. 6. — Conus trisculptus Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 34^ mm. 



Fig. 7. — Conus domingensis Sowb. Length 89 mm. 



Plate XX. — Fig. 1. — Conus furvoides Gabb. Type. Length 44.5 mm. 

 Fig. 2, 2a, 2b, Conus symmetricus Sowb. Lengths 25, 27.5 and 49 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Conus furvoides brachys Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 37.5 mm. 

 Fig. 4. — Conus aratus Gabb. Type. Length 63 mm. 

 Fig. 5. — Conus perlepidus Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 44 mm. 

 Fig. 6. — Conus planiliratus Sowb. Length 32 mm. . 

 Fig. 7, la, 7b,.— -Conus consobrinus Sowb. Length 27, 30 and 50 mm. 

 Fig. 8. — Conus consobrinus ultimus Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 52 mm. 

 Fig. 9. — Conus planiliratus Sowb. var. Length 42 mm. 

 Fig. 10. — Conus cercadensis Maury, (porcettus Pils. & Johns. Type). 



Length 29 mm. 

 Fig. 11, 11a. — Conus xenicus Pils. & Johns. Type and paratype. Lengths 



28.5 and 27 mm. 



Plate XXI. — Fig. 1. — Conus slenostoma Sowb. Length 75 mm. 

 Fig. 2. — Conus strombiformis Gabb. Type. Length 63 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Conus simplicissimus Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 63 mm. 

 Fig. 4. — Conus proteus humerosus n. subsp. Type. Length 65 mm. 

 Fig. 5. — Conus simplicissimus n. subsp. Length 68 mm. 

 Fig. 6. — Conus yaquensis Gabb. Type. Length 49 mm. 

 Fig. 7. — Conus pernodosus Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 23 mm. 

 Fig. 8, 9. — Conus gabbi Pils. & Johns. Paratype and type. Lengths 33 



and 42.5 mm. 

 Fig. 10. — Conus larvatus Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 33 mm. 



Plate XXII. — Figs. 1, 2. — Terebra hitia Pil». & Johns., with detail of penult whorl. 

 Figs. 3, 4. — Conus calenalus Sowb. Lengths 65 and 28 mm. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — Terebra bacidiformis Pils. & Johns., with detail of penult whorl. 

 Fig. 7. — Cancellaria guppyi Gabb. Type. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Cancellaria ellipsis Pils. & Johns. Type and paratype. 

 Figs. 10, 14. — Phos costatus Gabb. Type and paratype. Lengths 31 and 



30.5 mm. 

 Fig. 11. — Cancellaria insularis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 12. — Cancellaria gabbiana Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 13. — Cancellaria epistomifera Guppy. Length 37 mm. 

 Fig. 14. — Phos costatus Gabb. 



Fig. 15. — Nassaria brevis Gabb. Type. Length 20 mm. 

 Fig. 16, 17, 18. — Phos guppyi Gabb. Type and paratypes. Lengths 31.5, 



28, 33.5 mm. 

 Figs. 19, 20. — Metula cancellata Gabb. Type. Length 24.5 mm. 

 Figs. 21, 22. — Surcida jacquensis (Gabb). Type and paratype. Lengths 45 



and 67.3 mm. 

 Figs. 23, 24, 25. Phos semicostatus Gabb. Lengths 33.5, and 34. mm. 



Fig. 23 is the type. 



Plate XXIII. — Fig. 1. — Oliva proavia Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Figs. 2, 3. — Oliva cylindrica Sowb. Lengths 35 and 31 mm. 



Fig. 4. — Oliva brevispira Gabb. Type. 



Fig. 5. — Olivella canaliculata Gabb. Type. (= muticoides var.). 



Fig. 6. — Olivella muticoides Gabb, intermediate form. Length 17. 3 mm. 



Fig. 7. — Olivella muticoides Gabb. Type. 



Fig. 8. — Oliva dimidiata. Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Fig. 9. — Aurinia striata Gabb. Type. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



Figs. 10, 11. — Oliva gradata Gabb. Paratype and type. 



Fig. 12. — Rictaxis oryza (Gabb). Type. Length 6.7 mm. 



Fig. 13. — Harpa americana n. sp. Type. 



Fig. 14. — Marginella sowerbyi Gabb. Type. 



Fig. 15. — Adeon subtornatilis Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Plate XXIV. — Fig. 1. — M it ra symmetrica Gabb. Type (=titan Gabb). Length 

 51 mm. 

 Fig. 2. — Mitra titan Gabb. Type. Length 106 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Mitra longa Gabb. Type. Length 61.3 mm. 

 Figs. 4, 5. — Mitra rvdis Gabb. Type and a young specimen. 

 Fig. 6. — Plochelcea crassilabrum Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Plochelcea gabbi Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 27.5 mm. 

 Fig. 8. — Vexillum tortuosum (Gabb). Type. Length 32.3 mm. 

 Fig. 9. — Vexillum tortuosellum (Pils. & Johns.). Type. 

 Fig. 10. — Mitra mesolia Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 11, 12. — Lyria soror (Sowerby). 



Fig. 13. — Vexillum tortuosellum frater (Pils. & Johns.). Type. 

 Fig. 14. — Marginella nugax Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Plate XXV. — Fig. 1. — Latirofusus exilis (Gabb). Length 31.4 mm. 



Fig. 2. — Cardium venustum Gabb. Type. 



Fig. 3. — Xancus validus (Sowb.). Length 178 mm. 



Fig. 4. — Latirus brevi,caudatus santodomingensis P. Length 57 mm. 



Fig. 5. — Xancus textilis jamaicensis Pils. & Johns. Length 123 mm. 



Fig. 6. — Xancus textilis jamaicensis. Length 42 mm. 



Fig. 7. — Cardium venustum Gabb. Type. 



Fig. 8, 9. — Cardium dominicense Gabb. Type. 



Plate XXVI. — Fig. l.~ Latirus angustatus Gabb. Length 27 mm. 

 Fig. 2. — Latirus fusiformis Gabb. Length 31.5 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Latirus fusiformis Gabb. Length 28.7 mm. 

 Fig. 4. — Latirus elongatus Gabb. Length 49 mm. 

 Fig. 5. — Xancus rex Pils. & Johns. Length 220 mm. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — Fusinus henekeni (Sowb.). Lengths 71 and 89 mm. 

 Fig. 8. — Xancus rex Pils. & Johns. Length 156 mm. 

 Fig. 9. — Leucozonia rhomboidea Gabb. Length 13.6 mm. 



Plate XXVII. — Fig. 1. — Vasum pugnus Pils. & Johns. Length 80 mm. 

 Figs. 2, 3. — Vasum tuberculatum Gabb. Length 112 mm. 

 Figs. 4, 5. — Vasum dominicense Gabb. Lengths 32 and 60 mm. 

 Fig. 6. — Aclis alta Gabb. Type. 



Plate XXVIII. — Fig. 1. — Murex rufus compactus Gabb. Type. Length 56.4 mm. 

 Figs. 2, 3. — Trophon dominicensis Gabb. Type. Length 17.5 mm. 

 Fig. 4. — Murex textilis Gabb. Type. Length 31 mm. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — Typhis obesus Gabb. Type. Length 24.8 mm. 

 Fig. 7. — Muricidea striata Gabb. Type Length 12.3 mm. 

 Figs. 8, 9. — Thais santodomingensis Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 45 mm. 

 Fig. 10. — Melongena antillarum (Gabb). Young paratype. Length 43.7 mm. 

 Figs. 11, 12. Cymia henekeni tectiformis n. subsp. Type. Length 46 mm. 

 Figs. 13, 14. — Melongena orthacantha Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 29.6 mm. 

 Figs. 15, 16. — Melongena orthacantha Pils. & Johns. Adult paratype. Length 



36.4 mm. 

 Fig. 17. — Melongena antillarum Gabb. Type. Length 79 mm. 



Plate XXIX.— Figs. 1, 9.—Malea goliath Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 129 mm. 

 Fig. 2. — Cymatium domingense (Gabb). Type. Length 28.7 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Malea elliptica Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 53.5 mm. 

 Fig. 4, 5. — Bursa crassa proavus Pils. Length 25 mm. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — Potamides dentilabris (Gabb). Length 49.6 mm. 

 Fig. 8. — Bursa crassa bowdenensis Pils. Length 48.7 mm. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Fig. 9.—Malea goliaih Pils. & Johns. Back of type. 



Figs. 10, 11. — Potamides suprasulcatus (Gabb). Lengths 29.5 and 20.5 mm. 



Fig. 12. — Potamides prismati6us (Gabb). Length 57.5 mm. 



Plate XXX. — Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Cyprcea raymondrobertsi n. sp. Type. Length 27 



mm. 

 Fig. 4, 5. — Cyproea spurcoides Gabb. Type. Length 32.5 mm. 

 Fig. 6. — Cyprcea raymondrobertsi bowdenensis n. subsp. Type. Length 



25.5. mm. 

 Figs. 7, 8. — Cyproea dominicensis Gabb. Type. Length 39 mm. 

 Figs. 9, 10. — Cyproea campbelliana Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 30 mm. 

 Figs. 11, 12. — Capulus inornatus Gabb. Type. Length 14 mm. 

 Fig. 13. — Orthaulax inornatus Gabb. Young specimen 30 mm. long. 

 Fig. 14. — Orthaulax inornatus Gabb. Largest specimen. Length 91.3 mm. 

 Fig. 15. — Orthaulax inornatus Gabb. Type. Length 55 mm. 

 Fig. 16. — Orthaidax i. altiiis n. subsp. Young specimen 27 mm. long. 

 Figs. 17, 18. — Orthaulax i. altiiis n. subsp. Type. Length 52 mm. 

 Figs. 19, 20. — Hipponix otiosa Pils. & Johns. Type and a small specimen; 



the upper left margin of the peristome broken in the former. Length 9.2 



and 5 mm. 



Plate XXXI. — Figs. 1, 2. — Strombus galliformis Pils. & Johns. 

 Figs. 3, 4:.—Xenophora imperforata Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 5. — Melongena consors (Sowb.). Dwarf form. 



Plate XXXII. — Fig. 1. — Strombus dominator Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Figs. 2, 3. — Cerithium microlineatum Gabb. Type and paratype. Length 



49 and 50 mm. 

 Fig. 4. — Cerithium venustum Gabb. Type. Length 29 mm. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — Potamides gastrodon Pils. & Johns. Type. Length 22.5 mm 

 Figs. 7, 8. — Xenophora dilecta Guppy. Diam. 51 and 56 mm. 

 Fig. 9. — Strombus dominator Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Plate XXXIII. — Figs. 1, 2. — Cerithium turriculum Gabb. Type. 

 Figs. 3, 4. — Cerithium dominicense Gabb. Type. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — Cerithium obesum Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Cerithium simplex Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 8. — Cerithium turriculum Gabb. 



Figs. 9-12. — Cerithium obesum ventricosior n. var. 10-12 are the type. 

 Figs. 13, 17. — Cerithium obesum gurabense Maury. No. 4076. 

 Figs. 14, 15. — Cerithium obesum harrisi n. var. Type. 

 Figs. 16, 20. — Cerithium uniseriale Sowb. No. 2595. 

 Fig. 17. — Cerithium obesum gurabense Maury. 

 Figs. 18, 19. — Cerithium obesum ventricosum (?). No. 4075. 

 Fig. 20. — Cerithium uniseriale Sowb. Enlarged view of No. 2595. 



Plate XXXIV. — Fig. 1. — Rissoina minuta (Gabb). Type. 



Fig. 2. — Bittium costalum Gabb. Type. = Rissoina bryerea (Mont.), var. 



binominis Pils. & Johns. 

 Figs. 3, 4. — Eulima crassilabris Gabb. Type (=Rissoina laevigata C. B. Ad.). 

 Fig. 5. — Rissoa epulata Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 6. — Rissoa proavita Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Epitonium amosbrowni n. sp. Type. 

 Figs. 8, 9. — Epitonium santodomingense n. sp. Type. 

 Figs. 10, 11. — Epitonium minutissimum (Gabb). Type. 

 Figs. 12, 13. — Dolophanes melanoides Gabb. Type. (=Crepitacella). 

 Figs. 14 - 16. — Hemisinus truncatus (Gabb). Fig. 14, 36 mm. long. 

 Fig. 17.' — Niso grandis (Gabb). Type. 

 Figs. 18, 19, 20. — Torinia rotundata Gabb. 

 Fig. 21. — Natica finitima Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 22. — Epitonium amplum Gabb. Type. Diam. 13.5 mm. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Figs. 23. 24. — Amauropsis burnsi meridionalis n. subsp. Length 23.3 mm. 

 Figs. 25-27. — Amauropsis guppyi (Gabb). Lengths 32, 28, 38 mm. 



Plate XXXV. — Fig.l. — Mangilia dominicensis (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 2. — Alabina canaliculata (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 3. — Alabina angustior n. sp. Type. 

 Fig. 4. — Bitlium asperoides (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 5. — Aclis bartschiana Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 6. — Melanella gabbiana Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Melanella astuta Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 8. — Strombiformis ischnon Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. S. — Strombiformis sarissiformis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 10. — Strombiformis pralubrica Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 11. — Alaba maoensis (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 12. — Bittium yaquense (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 13. — Pyramidella forulata famelica Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 14. — Pyramidella canaliculata Gabb. Type. 



Plate XXXVI. — Fig. 1. — Turbonilla turritelloides Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 2. — Turbonilla beatula Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 3. — Turbonilla dominicensis Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 4. — Turbonilla santodomingensis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 5. — Turbonilla galeata Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 6. — Turbonilla perozqua Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Turbonilla angustula Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 8. — Turbonilla aratibacillum Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 9. — Turbonilla insititia Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 10. — Turbonilla undecimcostaia Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 11. — Turbonilla pertenuis Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 12. — Turbonilla contexta Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 13. — Turbonilla egressa Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 14. — Odostomia cyclocephala Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 15. — Odostomia bartschiana Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 16. — Odostomia mogindo n. sp. Type. 



Plate XXXVII. — Figs. 1, la, 16. — Teinostoma angulaium (Gabb). Type. 

 Figs. 2, la, 2b. — Teinostoma depressum (Gabb). Type. 

 Figs. 3, 3a, 36. — Teinostoma vitreum (Gabb). Type. 

 Figs. 4, 4a. — Vitrinella amosbrovmi n. sp. Type. 

 Figs. 5, 5a. — Vitrinella naso Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 6. 6a. — Circulus domingensis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Circulus domingensis Pils. <fc Johns. Base of a more perfect speci- 

 men. 



Plate XXXVIII. — Fig. 1, la. — Leda extricata Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 2. — Phacoides pupulus Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 3. — Phacoides perplexus Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 4. — Crassinella guppyi radiala n. subsp. Type. 

 Fig. 5. — Nucula luberculata Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 6. — Nucula 'tenuisculpla Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Crenella diuturna Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 8, 9. Pandora inconspicua Gabb. Type and paratype. 

 Fig. 10. — Cuspidaria gabbi Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 11. — Cuspidaria ornalior Pils. & Johns., variety. 

 Fig. 12. — Cuspidaria ornatior Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Plate XXXIX.— Figs. 1, 2.— Area bonaczyi (Gabb). Type. 

 Figs. 3, 4. — Area pennelli Gabb. Type. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — Area proletaria Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 7, 8, 9. — Area intumulata Pils. & Johns. Type and paratype. 

 Fig. 10. — Area tolepia saxea Pils. & Johns. Type. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART II 



Figs. 11, 12. — Area tolepia crassicardinis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 13, 14. — Area tolepia scapvlaris Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 15, 16. — Area cyclica Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Figs. 17, 18, 19, 20. Area perfaceta Pils. & Johns. Type and another speci- 

 men. 



Plate XL. — Fig . 1. — Area grandis Brod. Santo Domingo. No. 2720. 

 Figs. 2, 3. — Area chiriquiensis Gabb. Chiriqui. Type and paratype. 

 Figs. 4, 5, 6. — Area chiriquiensis Gabb. Santo Domingo. No. 2722. 



Plate XLI. — Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Area chiriquiensis Gabb. Chiriqui. No. 2724. 

 Fig. 4. — Area c. websteri Pils. Type. 

 Figs. 5, 6. — Area dolaticosta Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Tellina errati Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 8, 9. — Area devexa Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Plate XL11. — Figs. 1, 2. — Divaricella proletaria Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 3, 10. — Area idiodon Pils. Type. Wilmington, N. C. 

 Figs. 4, 5, 6. — Area pomponiana Pils. & Johns. Type and paratype. 

 Figs. 7, — Glycymeris approximans Gabb. Type. Alt. 8.6 mm. 

 Figs. 8, 9.— -Glycymeris diffidentice Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 10. — Area idiodon Pils. Type. 



Fig. 11. — Glycymeris approximans Gabb. Large specimen, alt. 21 mm. 

 Figs 12, 18. — Glycymeris santodomingensis Pils. & Johns. Type. : 

 Figs. 13, 14. — Area mullilineata Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 15. — Turritella sulcigyrata Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 16, 17. Turbo dominicensis Gabb. Type and paratype. 

 Fig. 18. — Glycymeris santodomingensis Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Plate XLIII. — Fig. 1. — Anomia gabbi Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Figs. 2, 3. — Ostrea bolus Pils. & Johns. Type and paratype. 

 Figs 4, 5. — Spondylus gumanomocon Brown & Pils. Paratype and type. 

 Fig. 6. — Pleria inornata (Gabb). Type. 



Fig. 7. — Pleria inornata (Gabb). No. 2641. An internal cast. 

 Figs. 8, 9. — Amusium papyraceum (Gabb). Type and internal cast of an- 

 other valve. 



Plate XLTV. — Figs. 1, 2. — Pecten soror (Gabb). Concave valve and detail o 

 sculpture Type. 



Figs. 3, 6.— Pecten thetidis Sowb. No. 2858. 

 Figs. 4. 5. — Pecten thetidis pelei Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 7, 8, 9. — Pecten ischnon Pils. & Johns. Type and paratype. 



Plate XLV. — Figs. 1, 2. — Pecten plurinominis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 3. — Pecten interlineatus Gabb. Type. 



Figs. 4, 5, 6. — Pecten oxygonum Sowb. No. 2867, with detail of basal margin. 

 Figs. 7, 8. — Pecten augusticostatus Gabb. Type, with detail of basal edge 



of same. 

 Fig. 9. — Pecten uselmce Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 10. — Venericardia aversa Pils. & Johns. Type.* 

 Fig. 11 — Pecten inaequalis Sowb. No. 2847. 

 Fig. 12. — Pecten eccentricus Gabb. Type. 

 Fig. 13. — Pecten correctus Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 14. — Venericardia sedbricostata Gabb. Type. 



Plate XLVI. — Figs. 1, 2. — Echinochama yaquensis trachyderma Pils. & Johns. 

 Type and paratype. 

 Fig. 3. — Lucina mauryce Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 4, 5. — Metis efferta Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 6. — Lucina bulla (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 7. — Metis chipolana Dall. No. 2671. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



Fig. 8. — Metis postrema Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Fig. 9. — Semele delimata Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Fig. 10. — Semele firma Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Fig. 11. — Labiosa gabbi Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Figs. 12, 13. — Corbula dominicensis Gabb. Cotypes. 



Fig. 14. — Corbula knoxiana fossilis Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Plate XLVII. — Fig. 1, 2. — Chione santodomingensis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Figs. 3, 4, 5. — Chione guppyana Gabb. Type. 

 Figs. 6, 7. — Chione primigenia Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 8. — Cyclina cyclica domingensis Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 9. — Dosinia azuana Pils. & Johns. Type. 

 Fig. 10. — Pitar acuticostatus (Gabb). Type. 

 Fig. 11. — Pitar tryonianus (Gabb). Type. 

 Figs. 12, 13. — Chione soda Pils. & Johns. Type. 



Figs. 8, 9 natural size, the others enlarged. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XVI. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





fst 



PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XVII. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XVIII. 



11 16 " 17 '<m 18 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSOA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





.PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XIX. 



I 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XX. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXI. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXII. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXIII. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXIV. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





J ROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA, 1921 



PLATE XXV. 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLTJSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921 



PLATE? XXVI. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXVII. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PLATE XXVIII. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOT.LUSOA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXIX. 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXX. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXXI. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PLATE XXXII. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXXIII. 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 




• 




PROC.'ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA, 1921. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLTJSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXXV. 



11 12 13 14 



PILSBRY; GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXXVI. 



12 ^P 13 ^ 14 15 I 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXXVII. 



la 



l\3 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PLATE XXXVIII. 



12 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XXXIX. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XL. 



mm 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921 



PLATE XL1. 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA, 1921 



PLATE XL1I. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSOA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XLIII. 



PILSBRY; O-ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSOA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XLIV. 



PILSBRY: G ABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSCA OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XLV. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XLVI. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1921. 



PLATE XLVII. 



PILSBRY: GABB'S TERTIARY MOLLUSC A OF SANTO DOMINGO. 





NOTES ON HEMIBRANCHIATE AND LOPHOBRANCHIATE FISHES. 



By Henry W. Fowler. 



The fishes belonging to the above-named groups contained in 

 the collection of the Academy are listed in this paper. Besides 

 notes on variation, interesting records are given for some species 

 for the first time, and two species are described as new. 



GASTEROSTEIDAE. 

 Spinachia spinachia (Linne) 



British Isles and Sweden. 



Pungitius pungitius (Linne) 



Europe, Sweden, Rostock in Germany, Magdalen Islands, 

 Massachusetts, Salem, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey. 

 My largest examples show: Head 3f to 4; depth 5f to 6; D. 

 ix, often x, rarely xi, 9 or 10; A. i, 9, often 10; length 62 to 70 mm. 

 In the entire series the dorsal shows mostly x, often ix, seldom or 

 rarely viii or xi. In view of the great variation of these spines, 

 even as low as n have been given by some authors, it is not pos- 

 sible to use them as distinctive characters. The Japanese Pygo- 

 steus steindachneri Jordan and Snyder and P. undecimalis Jordan 

 and Starks are nominal forms supposed to be distinguished chiefly 

 according to their dorsal spines, and may therefore be merged 

 in the synonymy. Gasterosteus pungitius brachypoda Bean has 

 been placed as the Greenland representative, on the alleged char- 

 acter of its short ventral spine, which is a little less than half of 

 the head. None of my examples shows the ventral spine more than 

 half of the head, and most of them much less. In the young or 

 small examples, these spines are quite short or small. It is there- 

 fore quite likely Pungitius pungitius is entirely circumpolar. 



Gasterosteus aculeatus Linne. 



Prince Edward Island, Magdalen Islands, Halifax, in Nova Scotia, 

 Maine, Long Island, New Jersey, Virginia. Many from the Medi- 

 terranean, Lago Nemi and Italy as var. brachycentrus. This large 

 series of all ages shows great variation, individual as well as geo- 

 graphical. It is impossible to clearly define the latter. All the 



(437) 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Mediterranean and Italian specimens are naked or partly armed. 

 They show usually 4 plates, less frequently to 5. In young ex- 

 amples from Prince Edward Island the armature is often incomplete, 

 and the long ventral spines slender, frequently extending even £ 

 beyond the pubic process or even twice length of the dorsal spines. 

 All my Canadian examples have the armature less complete, or 

 less in depth than in New Jersey specimens. This may, however, 

 be due to age, as my largest ones are somewhat less than Long 

 Island and New Jersey material. The Canadian specimens all 

 agree with the Virginian examples, all of which are uniformly 

 small. They have variously long or short spines. All show but 

 a single ventral ray. The characters given by Jordan and Ever- 

 mann for the nominal American forms 1 are entirely fallacious and 

 my specimens violate all their alleged distinctions. 



Gasterosteus aculeatus cataphractus (Pallas) 



G. microcephalus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 133. Four 

 Creek, San Joaquin Valley, Cal. 



Nos. 14,275 to 14,289, A. N. S. P., cotypes of G. microcephalus 

 Girard. Others from San Francisco and Oakland, California; 

 Puget Sound; Alaska. The distinctions given by Jordan and 

 Evermann for this nominal form, — its robust form and longer spines, 

 do not hold. A nearly equal variation is found in my Pacific 

 specimens as in the Atlantic, and the present form is only admitted 

 nominally. 



Eucalia inconstans (Kirtland) 



Gasterosteus micropus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 81. Fort 

 Riley, Kansas. 



Nos. 14,184 and 14,185, A. N. S. P., cotypes of G. micropus Cope. 

 Others from New York, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Iowa and' Minne- 

 sota. They show D. v, rarely vi, unsually 10, often 9, sometimes 

 8 and rarely 7 or 11; A. i, 9 or 10, rarely 7, 8 or 11; ventral spine 

 \ to l+i; length 24 to 65 mm. 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill) 



Prince Edward Island, Magdalen Islands, Maine, Rhode Island, 

 Long Island, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Mary- 

 land. This large series shows a wider range of variation than is 

 usually credited to the dorsal spines. Seven examples have in, 152 

 have iv, 283 have v, and 9 have vi. These spines are all very 



1 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., no. 47. pt. 1. 1896. p. 746. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 439 



variable in length, position and projection. In only one case were 

 2 closely situated spines found at the soft dorsal origin, the rays of 

 the fin ranging 10 to 12. Only a single oval spine in all the 

 examples, the rays 7 to 10. A young Delaware example shows un- 

 usually short or hardly developed innominate bones. The color 

 pattern is also extremely variable, and in no two examples exactly 

 alike. 



Four examples Cope reported in 1865 2 , labeled as having been 

 brought from Sukertoppem, Greenland, by Dr. I. I. Hayes, 

 are not Eucalia inconstans, with which he sought to identify them. 

 I subsequently wrongly referred four examples, labeled "Godhavn, 

 Disco Island, Davis Straits" from Dr. I. I. Hayes 3 to Gasterosteus 

 aculeatus, which suggests they may have changed labels. 



AULOSTOMIDAE. 

 Aulostomus maculatus Valenciennes. 



Two from Santa Cruz, W. I. Eye 2\ to 2f in postorbital. 



Aulostomus chinensis (Linn6) 



Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands, Oahu, Pacific Ocean. Eye 2\ to 

 2f in postorbital. 



FISTULARIIDAE. 



Fistularia tabacaria Linne. 



Manasquan, Ocean City, Beesley's Point, Angelsea, N. J.; Rio 

 Janeiro, Brazil; Trinidad W. I.; Banda Point, West Africa. This 

 material shows the variations quite extensively. The characters 

 pointed out by Jordan and Starks in their distinctions for F. 

 petimba and F. depressa are in some instances covered by my mate- 

 rial. However the median ridges on the snout above are slightly 

 divergent anteriorly. In all cases the skin is smooth. 



Fistularia petimba Lacepede. 



Hawaiian and Philippine Islands. I have not found any struc- 

 tural differences for this species, in attempting to distinguish it 

 from the preceding. "Upper lateral edges of snout with few 

 serrations or none" as given by Jordan and Evermann for their F. 

 tabacaria in comparison with "upper lateral edges of snout sharply 

 serrated" for F. petimba, are surely worthless. The blue spots for 



2 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 81. 

 • L. c. 1914, p. 365. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



F. tabacaria are not found in any of my preserved specimens, either 

 old or recent, apparently soon fading after death. My examples 

 of F. petimba are smooth. All show the hind portion of the lateral 

 line armed with firm plates, only less developed in the young, and 

 in small examples some apparently affected by formaline. The 

 same is true of F. tabacaria. The examples of F. petimba all agree 

 in a slightly less deeply depressed interorbital, with narrower sup- 

 raorbitals. Even some of the examples of F. tabacaria show a 

 similar condition, and this is hardly a likely character for distinction. 



MACRORHAMPHOSIDAE. 

 Macrorhamphosus scolopax (Linne) 



Head If to 2f; depth 3f to 4£; snout If to 3f in head; 

 eye 2\ to 4| in snout; D. v or vi — 11 or 12; A. 18 or 19. All show 

 great variation in the length of the dorsal spine, as in some it does 

 not depress much beyond the soft dorsal and in others it extends 

 beyond the caudal tips. Its armature also quite variable, though 

 usually distinct. In smaller or young examples obsolete or only 

 few denticles. Young also have shorter snouts, deeper basally. 

 Length 27 to 158 mm. Twenty-six from Italy. 



Jordan and Starks state they have compared their M . sagifue with 

 two specimens of the present species from the Canaries. They con- 

 tend M. sagifue differs "in being a little more slender and in having 

 a slightly smaller eye and longer snout." All these characters are, 

 however, covered by my material, as the note above will show. 

 Though they fail to note the length of their type it appears to 

 measure according to their figure, about 115 mm. The correct 

 distinctions therefore remain unknown for the nominal M. sagifue. 

 None of my specimens appears to represent M . gracilis (Lowe) as 

 described by Gunther. It is said to have the body depth 2f to 3 

 in space between opercle and caudal base, which is If to 2\ in my 

 specimens. A further distinction is the alleged weak armature of 

 the dorsal spine. 



Macrorhamphosus scolopax elevatus (Waite) 



Head 2^; depth 4f, or 2\ from gill-opening to caudal base; 

 dorsal spine well armed, not depressible beyond soft dorsal. Victoria. 



Centriscops humerosus (Richardson) 



One from Victoria, Australia, 110? mm. (caudal damaged). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 441 



CENTRISCIDAE. 



Centriscus scutatus Linne. 



One without data. 



Centriscus strigatus (Gunther) 



One without data. Aeoliscus Jordan and Starks, based on this 

 species, would appear only of sub-generic rank. 



PEGASIDAE. 



Parapegasus natans (Linne) 



Padang, Sumatra. 



SYNGNATHIDAE. 



Entelurus aequoreus (Linn§) 



Osphyolax pellucidus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1875, p. 450, PI. 

 25, figs. 1-4. Open Atlantic Ocean. 



No. 860, A. N. S. P., type of 0. pellucidus Cope. Duncker has 

 correctly placed this nominal form as a synonym of Syngnathus 

 aequoreus Linn£ 4 and although the type has been overlooked until 

 now, its identity is unquestioned. It is, however, still in good 

 preservation and shows: Rings 29+62?; D. 37, on 8" +3 rings; head 

 4f to vent; vent about opposite last third in dorsal base. Length 

 283 mm. On the basis of the very general type locality this species 

 could hardly be included in the North American ichthyfauna. 



Cope gives "thirty-one transverse rows of scuta" though my 

 count shows the above formula. Also he says " dorsal radii sixteen, " 

 his figure showing 18, whereas there are actually 37. Also he gives 

 "total length 23 m.," while his specimen is actually 283 mm. long. 



Nerophis macula tus Raflnesque. 



Rings 21 or 22 +50 to 67; D. 21 to 25, on 2 or 3 +5 rings. Three 

 from Italy. 



Gastrotokeus biaculeatus (Bloch) 



Bacon and Philippines. 



Doryrhamphinarum lineatum (Valenciennes) 



Santo Domingo, W. I. Duncker sets aside Doryrhamphinarum 

 Kaup 5 . Kaup included Syngnathus heterosoma Bleeker monoty- 

 pically, and such is here acknowledged as its type. It therefore 

 supersedes Microphis as used by Duncker. 



* Mitteil. Nat, Mus. Hamburg, 32, 1914 (1915), p. 32. 



* Cat. Lophobr. Fish, 185, p. 62. 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Doryrhamphinarum brachyurum (Bleeker) 



Rings 21 or 22+22 to 25; D. 38 to 43, on 1 or 2+7 or 8 rings. 

 Eleven from Tahiti. 



Corythoichthys fasciatus (Gray) 



C. elerae Evermann and Seale, Bull. U. S. Bur. Fisher., 26, 1906 (1907), p. 

 57, fig. 2. 



No. 33,252, A. N. S. P. , paratype of C. elerae Evermann and Seale. 



Corythoichthys conspicillatus (Jenyns) 



Rings 16+40; D. 31 to 33, on 6 rings. Twelve from Tahiti. 

 Corythoichthys albirostris Kaup. 



Rings 16+32; D. 28, on 4+5 rings. Marco, Lee County, Florida. 



Micrognathus jonesi (Giinther) 



Rings 15 or 16 +37 or 38; D. 25, on 1 +3 or 4 rings. Three from 

 Anclote Bay and three from Point Pinellos, west coast of Florida, 

 both obtained by Prof. Angelo Heilprin in 1886. This species has 

 not previously been recorded from the coast of the United States. 

 These examples show fewer body rings and more caudal rings than 

 the Porto Rican material reported by Evermann and Marsh. 



Compared with Syngnathus elucens the present species differs 

 in the median lateral ridge continuous with the lower caudal ridge, 

 and the lower lateral trunk ridges end abruptly close before begin- 

 ning of the lower lateral caudal ridge. 



Syngnathus spicifer Ruppell. 



Philippines. Rings 16+40; D. 26, on 7 body rings. This example 

 agrees in most every respect with Ruppell's figure and description. 

 It has upper right body and caudal keels continuous, though a little 

 deflected below the dorsal base. Along this latter area an auxiliary 

 short superior parallel keel. As the color has faded the usual dark 

 abdominal cross-bands are not evident. 



Syngnathus matterni (Fowler) ♦ 



Corythroichthys matterni Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1918, p. 11, fig. 

 5. Philippines. 



Type, No. 47,484, A. N. S. P., of C. matterni Fowler. In the 

 original account the misleading statement "this species differs 

 from the preceding chiefly in its greatly elongated tail and shorter 

 snout," refers to the specimen of S. spicifer, its reference having 

 been deleted from my paper. Abdomen pale brownish, but with 

 indistinct cross-bars. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 443 



Syngnathus elucens Poey. 



Marquesas and Big Pine Keys, Florida. Rings 16 to 18+28 to 

 33 ; D. 28 to 30, in 3 or 4 +4 or 5 rings. Length 55 to 1 17 mm. 



Syngnathus schlegelii Kaup. 



Yokohama and Otaru, Japan. Rings 19 or 20+40 to 43; D. 34 

 to 39, on 1+8 to 10 rings. Largest 229 mm. 



Syngnathus californiensis Storer. 



S. griseolineatus Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 1854., p. 14. San Fran- 

 cisco Bay. 



No. 835, A. N. S. P., type of S. griseolineatus Ayres. In 

 very poor condition. Other examples from Monterey and Cali- 

 fornia, and Willamette River, Oregon. Rings 19 to 21 +42 to 52; 

 D. 37 to 44, on 1+8 to 10 rings. 



Jordan and Evermann say S. griseolineatus Ayres differs in a 

 somewhat shorter snout, number of dorsal rays and rings, more 

 keeled snout and dorsal covering or 1+9 rings. My material all 

 appears to be S. californiensis and the type of S. griseolineatus 

 has at least 18 body rings and not one of the other specimens show 

 less than 19. 



Syngnathus pelagicus I Jim.'. 



Many examples; 5 labeled "Delaware Bay"; N. Lat. 24° 21' West 

 Long. 34° 32'; N. Lat. 23° 20' West Long. 57° 29'; N. Lat. 23° 59' W. 

 Long. 37° 59'; Lake George, Florida. Rings 16 or 17+29 to 32; 

 D. 28 to 33, on 2 to 4+4 to 7 rings. All this material is charac- 

 terized by the vertical white lines on the trunk, one on each ring 

 inferiorly. 



Jordan and Evermann place this species in their key under the 

 group with "dorsal covering 4 or 5 body rings" and immediately 

 below as "on 1+9 rings." In only one example (Lake George) 

 have I found the dorsal on 4+4 rings. I cannot find Siphostoma 

 scovelli Evermann and Kendall is distinct, and in fact its alleged 

 distinctions are covered by the variations in my material. 



Syngnathus fuscus (Storer) 



Massachusetts, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia. 

 Also one labeled "Neuse River, North Carolina." Rings 17 to 20 

 +36 to 40; D. 32 to 40, on 4 to 6+4 to 6 rings. Largest 240 mm. 



Syngnathus mackayi Swain and Meek. 



Marquesas and Big Pine Keys, Florida. Rings 17 or 18+31 to 

 35; D. 29 to 31 on 1 to 3 +5 to 7 rings. Largest 160 mm. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Syngnathus louisianae (Giinther) 



Marquesas and Big Pine Keys, Hailer's Rock, West Palm Beach 

 and Pensacola, Florida. Rings 20 to 23+35 or 36; D. 33 or 34, on 

 3 or 4 +4 to 6 rings. Largest 283? mm. 



Syngnathus acus Linne. 



Italy and Sweden. Rings 15 to 20+33 to 43; D. 33 to 39, on 1 to 

 3+6 to 9 rings. Largest 333 mm. In most upper lateral caudal 

 keel continuous with median lateral keel of trunk. 



Syngnathus pellegrini Fowler. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 56, 1919, p. 265, fig. 11. Gabun, West 

 Africa. 



Nos. 975 to 978, A. N. S. P., type and paratypes. 



Typhlinus typhle (Linn6) 



Italy and Gulf of Spisia. 



Stigmatophora argus (Richardson) 



One from "Fiji" wrongly identified by me as S. nigra Kaup. 

 Rings 19 +48?; D. 42, on 8 +6 rings. Likely this specimen is actually 

 from Australia. 



Leptonotus tristriatus n. sp. Fig. 1. 



Head 2f to vent; depth 11; D. 42, on 3+8 rings, P. 12; rings 

 21+40? (tail damaged); snout about 1\ in head; eye 2| in post- 

 orbital region. 



Body elongated, slender, well compressed, and apparently deepest 

 midway in trunk, and combined head and trunk at least less than 

 tail. Upper keels on each side of back extend back to seventh 

 caudal ring. This replaced by similar parallel keel, beginning on 

 last trunk ring and entirely continuous posteriorly. Median 

 lateral keel from pectoral axis, and ends on last keel of trunk. 

 Median belly keel complete from breast to vent. Lower keel along 

 each side of body complete. 



Head slender, attenuate, compressed, upper profile nearly straight. 

 Snout greatly longer than rest of head. Eye rounded, small, though 

 now little left but orbital rim, which at least f of head depth at 

 that point. Mouth .small, terminal. Interorbital flat. Opercle 

 without horizontal keel and fine striae radiating above and below. 



Gill-opening? 



Rings firm, and keels without spines. Each ring with numerous 

 fine striae, vertical on plates. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



445 



Dorsal origin well before vent, fin small and rays rather short. Anal 

 very small. Pectoral half length of postocular region. 



Color in alcohol largely faded dull brownish. Back dull brown, 

 with obscure paler dots or minute rounded spots. Dorsal pale 

 brown. Brown band along side of snout to eye, and continued back 

 over opercle and upper side of back, gradually merging in color of 

 latter before dorsal. Median narrow streak of same color on upper 

 surface of snout, continued over upper surface of head to predorsal, 

 and much narrower than lateral head bands, or across interorbital 

 about one-third its width. All these bands on head with margins 

 darker or as if bordered with dusky-brown lines. 



Length about 136 mm., measured to end of broken tail. 



Type, No. 33,136, A. N. S. P. Fiji. Mrs. Agnes F. Kenyon. 



Fig. 1. — Leptonotus tristriatus n. sp. 



This species is related to Leptonotus norae Waite 6 in the number of 

 its rings and length of its snout. It differs, however, markedly in 

 color-pattern. Originally I wrongly recorded this species as Syng- 

 nathus semistriatus (Kaup), a species which it appeared to re- 

 semble in structure, though it also differs strikingly in color-pattern. 



(Tri, three; stria, stripe; for the color-pattern chiefly on the head.) 



Solenognathus guntheri Duncker. 



Rings 25 or 26+56 or 57; D. 40? to 43? Two adults from Victoria, 

 Australia, and two without data. They all agree with S. hardwickii 

 Waite 7 , which has been named S. guntheri by Duncker. 



Phyllopteryx foliatus (Shaw) 



Two males and 4 females from Portland, Victoria. Syngnatus 

 taeniloatus Lacepede 8 is synchronous with Shaw. 



Hippocampus hippocampus (Linne) 



Italy and Port Mahon, Minorca. D. 16 to 19, on 3+1 rings; 

 rings 12+35 or 36. Also a number of dried examples without data. 



Hippocampus hudsonius De Kay. 



Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware. 



D. 17 to 20, on 3 or 4+1 



6 Records Canterbury Mus., I, No. 3, 1911. p. 173, PI. 27, fig. 1. 



7 Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, (2) 9, 1894, p. 221, PI. 17, figs. 2-4. 7. 



8 Ann. Mus. Hist. Nat. Paris, 4, 1804, p. 211, PI. 58. fig. 3. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



rings; rings 11 to 13+34 to 38. This species is very close to the 

 preceding, and may not eventually prove to be distinct. The 

 specimens fail to show any tangible structural characters and the 

 variations are in most every way conformable. Both have a similar 

 general style of. coloration, even to the dark median ventral keel and 

 submarginal dark band on the dorsal. The female likewise shows 

 the vent in a dark area. 



Hippocampus punctulatus Guichenot. 



Bermuda; Vera Cruz, Mexico; Port of Silam, Yucatan; Bahamas; 

 Santa Cruz, W. I. ; Key West, Marquesas Keys and Useppa Island, 

 Florida; Maldonado Bay, Uruguay; Sao Thome, Portuguese Guinea. 

 The Useppa Island example agrees in most every respect with the 

 nominal color variety H brunneus Bean 9 . Possibly H. stylifer 

 Jordan and Gilbert is another variation, though none of my examples 

 shows so few as 16 D. rays. 



Hippocampus sindonis Jordan and Snyder. 



A dried example labeled "coast of Japan," from Dr. W. N. 

 Whitney, conspicuous for its extremely high bony occipital crest. 



Hippocampus ingens Girard. 



Two in bad preservation, from Panama. 



Hippocampus zosterae Jordan and Gilbert. 



Marquesas Keys, Florida. 



Hippocampus kuda Bleeker. 



H. taeniops Fowler, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) 12, 1904, p. 501, PI. 

 7 (upper left fig ). Padang, Sumatra. 



No. 27,469, A. N. S. P., type of H. taeniops Fowler. 



Hippocampus abdominalis Lesson. 



H. bleekeri Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 426, fig. 4. Victoria, 



Australia. 

 H. agnesae Fowler, 1. c, 429, fig 5. Victoria. 



No. 33,122, A. N. S. P., type of H. bleekeri Fowler. 

 No. 33,123, A. N. S. P., type of H. agnesae Fowler. 



Hippocampus ecuadorensis n. sp. Fig. 2. 



Head, measured to gill opening, lj in trunk; depth of trunk 2 

 in its length; width of trunk about 4; trunk 2\ in tail; D. 22; A. 5; 

 P. 16; rings 11+36; depth of head at coronet If in its length; 

 width of head %\\ snout 2\\ eye 6£; dorsal base 2|; interorbi- 

 tal space \\ in eye. 



9 Field Mus. Pub. Zool., 7, July 1906, p. 39, fig. 1. Bermuda. 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



447 



Body long, moderately deep, trunk short and well compressed. 

 Trunk long, slender, slightly compressed. 



Head moderately large, compressed. Snout slightly attenuated, 

 wide as deep basally. Eye moderate, midway in head length. 

 Mouth terminal, broad, superior, and closed lower jaw slightly in- 



Fig. 2. — Hippocampus ecuadorensis n. sp. 



eluded. Nostrils small, close together and close before front rim 

 of orbit. Interorbital narrow, triangular, concave. 



Gill-opening about half of eye, inclined in vertical, laterally superior 

 on nape. 



Coronet moderately elevated, with two lateral ridges and median 




posterior ridge. Below and slightly in advance, a strong spine 

 directed laterally. Slight median ridge above nostrils. Supraocular 

 spine broad and directed laterally. Very small postorbital tubercle, 

 close behind eye. Shoulder-girdle with three moderately large 

 tubercles. Opercle with rather obsolete radiating striae. Body- 

 rings with edges as ridges, without spines, though at some junc- 

 tures slight tubercles. Ridges on tail-rings more or less obsolete. 



Fins moderate, rays simple. Dorsal base moderate, on 2 body 

 and 2 caudal rings. Anal long as eye. Pectoral base broad, fin 

 little longer than eye. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol dull brown. Body marked with numerous small 

 round obscure spots of dull brown. Also many pale or whitish dots 

 sprinkled about irregularly, often as short lines or specks. Dorsal 

 and pectoral, pale, uniform or unmarked. 



Length, from tip of coronet to tip of extended tail, 145 mm. 



Type, No. 24,198, A. N. S. P. Bahia, Ecuador. September, 

 1884. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Differs from H. ingens Girard in more dorsal rays, larger eye, blunt 

 body and tail rings, and the absence of dermal flaps. 



(Named for Ecuador.) 



(448) 




THE CHROMITE DEPOSITS OF THE STATE LINE SERPENTINES. 1 



By Samuel G. Gordon. 



The chromite deposits described below occur in a belt of ser- 

 pentine situated on the Pennsylvania-Maryland line, in Lancaster 

 and Chester counties, Pennsylvania, and Cecil County, Maryland. 

 In the last century the district was an important producer 

 of chromite, and during the recent war attempts were made to re- 

 open the mines, but with little success. Aside from economic 

 considerations, the deposits are of considerable scientific interest, 

 as the data regarding chromite deposits are rather meager, beyond 

 the fact that they appear to be true magmatic segregations without 

 the aid of "mineralizers." 



General Geology. 



The geology of the district has been described by Rogers 2 , 

 Chester 3 , Frazer 4 , and Bascom 5 . The serpentines of the belt 

 represent hydrothermal-metamorphosed peridotites and pyroxen- 

 ites, part of an igneous complex forming a large batholithic mass 

 overlain on the north by mica gneisses. The following interesting 

 petrographic succession is exhibited in passing northwestward 

 across the batholith-biotite-grandiorite, hornblende-biotite-grano- 

 diorite, quartz-biotite-hornblende-g abbro, quartz-hornblende-gab- 

 bro, hornblende-norite and quartz-norite, norite, pyroxenite, and 

 peridotite. The main types are considered by F. Bascom to re- 

 present differentiation of the magma before intrusion, while their 

 gradations are thought to represent subsequent differentiation. 



1 The writer is indebted to Dr. Edgar T. Wherry for a critical review 

 of the manuscript, and to Mr. F. Lynwood Garrison for various courtesies 

 extended to him during his visit to the district in April and August, 1920. The 

 albitites were described in a previous article in these proceedings, and an account 

 of the minerals of the district will appear in The American Mineralogist. 



2 Henry D. Rogers, Geology of Pennsylvania, 1858 



3 Frederick D. Chester. Ann. Rep. Second Geol. Surv. Penna. 1S87, 93-105, 

 1889. 



4 Persifor Frazer, Jr., Second Geol.Surv. Penna. Reports C3 and C4, 1880 and 

 1883, Geology of Lancaster County and Chester County. 



6 F. Bascom, Cecil County; Maryland Geol. Surv. 1902, 83-148. 



(449) 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Chromite Deposits. 



The chromite deposits occur exclusively in the meta-pyroxenite 

 and meta-periodotite area. The principal mines, now all abandoned, 

 are listed below, with their reputed production. 6 



Line Pit, three-quarters of a mile northwest of Rock Springs 

 cross-roads, Maryland; 1,000 tons. This chromite body presents 

 a number of unusual features, and is in some respects the most 

 remarkable deposit in the district. 



The deposit may be described as a rough, irregular cylindrical 

 mass, with the average diameters of 5 by 8 feet, which has been 

 worked to a depth of about 250 feet. The chromite body pitches 

 S 75° E at an angle of about 60°. 



This rough cylindrical mass is surrounded by a thick sheathing 

 of a translucent green, jade-like serpentine known as williamsite, 

 averaging about a foot in thickness, beyond which lie the ordinary 

 types of serpentine. Thick tabular masses of williamsite form 

 partings in the chromite deposit, while veins of it may extend 

 into the serpentine walls. Fractures in the chromite are filled 

 . with clinochlore or kammererite. Many veins of magnesite, 

 containing residual masses of green serpentine, were found cutting 

 the chromite deposit and the serpentine in the lower levels. 



Reynolds' Mine, one and a half miles south of Wrightsdale; pro- 

 duction small. 



Wood's Mine, one mile southwest of Lee's Mill; 120,000 tons. 

 The Wood's Mine chromite deposit formed an enormous, irregular 

 mass, in a dark green serpentine, which assumes a brown coating on 

 weathering. The deposit was worked to a depth of 720 feet. The 

 greatest length along the strike was 300 feet, with a width of 10 

 to 35 feet, and a pitch of 40° to 60°. The strike was nearly E. and 

 W. at the outcrop, and N. and S. on the lower levels. Branches of 

 the chromite body occasionally extended into the serpentine. 7 



Adjacent to the chromite, the serpentine showed a prismatic 

 structure, the cracks of which extended normally to the chromite 

 for a distance of a half inch or more, and were filled with deweylite 

 or magnesite. This secondary phenomenon occurred during the 

 serpentinization of the peridotite or pyroxenite, and indicates that 



6 For a map see these Proceedings Vol. 73, p. 174. 



7 Persifor Frazer, Jr., Second Geol. Surv. Penna. Rep. C3, 1880, 192-196. 

 William Glenn, Trans. Am. Inst. Min. Eng. 25, 481-499, 1896. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



the chromite deposit was formed prior to the serpentinization. A 

 similar structure is found in the serpentine adjacent to magnetite 

 veins in Brinton's Quarry, three miles south of West Chester, Chester 

 County, Penna. 



The following minerals were found associated with the chromite, 

 clinochlore, kammererite, uvarovite, brucite, hydromagnesite, 

 genthite, and zaratite. 



Red Pit, one-half mile northeast of Line Pit ; production unknown. 



Jenkin's Pit, three-eighths of a mile northeast of Red Pit; 1,000 

 tons. This mine has been abandoned for a number of years, and the 

 writer's observations were limited to the material on the dumps. 



In addition to massive chromite much disseminated chrome, 

 known as "birds-eye ore" was mined. The chromite deposits occurred 

 in dark brown, light to dark-greenish, or almost black serpentines, 

 which under the hand lens are seen to consist of greenish translucent 

 grains. Under the microscope the serpentine shows characteristic 

 mesh structure with residual grains of olivine (fig. 1). The dissem- 

 inated chromite occurs as rounded grains in a light greenish ser- 

 pentine, with residual olivine. Occasional grains of serpentinized 

 olivine are found entirely enclosed by chromite (fig. 2), and study 

 of thin sections indicates that the chromite crystallized out from 

 the magma contemporaneously with the olivine. 



The clinochlore and kammererite form druses in the chromite, 

 having been deposited by hydrothermal solutions, perhaps during 

 the process of serpentinization. The genthite and zaratite are due 

 to the weathering of minute amounts of an undetermined nickel sul- 

 fide present in the chromite. 



Carter's Mine, three-eighths of a mile east of Wood's Mine; 400 tons. 



Scott's Mine, two miles southwest of Nottingham; 3,000 tons. 



Moro Phillips' Mine, one mile south of Nottingham; 250 tons. 



In addition a number of smaller pits have produced from 20 to 

 50 tons, while more than 5,000 tons of sand chrome has been reported 

 to have been obtained by washing the stream sands of the region. 



An abandoned magnetite mine is situated one-and-a-quarter miles 

 northeast Rock Springs cross-roads, Maryland. 



The Serpentines. The serpentines forming the country rock are 

 largely brownish or greenish rocks, which are seen under the hand 

 lens to consist of small greenish, translucent grains, separated by 

 films of magnetite particles. Under the microscope some of the 




452 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part III 



grains exhibit mesh structure and contain residual olivine, indi- 

 cating that the parent rocks were largely peridotites of the type 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 4. 



Fig. 1. Serpentinization proceeding along cracks in olivine. Jenkin's Mine. 

 Ordinary light, x 15. Fig. 2. Chromite, "birdseye ore," in more or less ser- 

 pentinized olivine. Note rounded form of chromite and serpen tinized olivine 

 crystal in the chromite. Jenkin's Mine. Ordinary light, x 15. Fig. 3. Chro- 

 mite in fibrous williamsite. Line Pit. Polarized light, x 15. Fig. 4. Chro- 

 mite in williamsite. Note fractured character of the chromite. Line Pit, ordi- 

 nary light, x 15. 




1921 [ NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



saxonite, composed of olivine and enstatite. A pseudo-porphyritic 

 type is found consisting of a light grayish-green serpentine, with 

 small patches rich in magnetite, the particles of which are arranged 

 in definite patterns, indicating a possible derivation from a fer- 

 riferous pyroxene, probably hypersthene. 



The williamsite is a compact, green, translucent, jade-like ser- 

 pentine, which under the hand lens shows a fibrous structure. 

 Under polarized light the rock is seen to be composed of aggregates 

 of fibres polarizing in first order gray and yellow colors (fig. 3). 

 Rarely minute particles of a silver-white undetermined nickel 

 sulfide may be found in the williamsite. Mesh structure is absent 

 and no traces of the parent mineral from which the williamsite is 

 derived occurs. The writer considers the mineral to have been 

 derived from enstatite by hydrothermal metamorphism. 



Analyses of the williamsite are given below, showing it to be a 

 pure serpentine. 



Analyses of Williamsite 



Line Pit, Lancaster County, Penna. Smith and Brush; Am. J. Sci. (2) 15 



213, 1853. 



A B 



SiC-2 41.60 42.60 



A1 5 3 '. tr. tr. 



NiO 0.50 0.40 



FeO 3.24 1.62 



MgO 39.71 41.11 



H 2 12.70 12.70 



99.15 99.22 



Chromite. The chromite forms granular black masses, and 

 contains some disseminated williamsite. In very thin sections the 

 mineral shows a reddish translucency, and evidence of fracturing 

 during the period of sarpentinization (fig. 4). 



Origin of the Line Pit deposit. It is at once apparent from the 

 form and position of the Line Pit deposit that it was formed later 

 than the surrounding rock. Unfortunately but little is known re- 

 garding the behavior of chromite in igneous melts, beyond the 

 fact that its occurrence is limited to the ultrabasic rocks and that it 

 begins to crystallize early, and the period of its crystallization 

 may overlap that of the enstatite. 



That the chromite deposit had been formed previous to the ser- 

 pentinization is indicated by the evident fracturing of the chromite 

 grains (fig. 4) which occurred during this process. 




It seems, therefore, that after most of the magma had crys- 

 tallized into the peridotite, and the pipe-like mass of liquid was in- 

 jected into the peridotite, where after further differentiation, the 

 material crystallized into enstatite and chromite. Hydrothermal 

 solutions later altered the enstatite to williamsite. 



The Line Pit, Red Pit, Jenkins' Mine and Reynolds' Mine deposits 

 all fall on a line on the map. The significance of this is not known. 



(454) 




A FOSSIL OWL FROM THE BRIDGER EOCENE. 

 BY ALEXANDER WETMORE. 



In 1873, Dr. Joseph Leidy described some fragments of bone, 

 supposed to be those of a large lizard from the Bridger deposits of 

 Wyoming as Saniwa major, basing this name on the distal end of a 

 humerus and two fragmentary vertebrae. The type specimens 

 preserved in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia were borrowed recently by Mr. C. W. Gilmore, who 

 had recognized that the type material was probably composite, and 

 to him and to Dr. Witmer Stone, I am indebted for permission to 

 study the humerus in question, which proves to be that of a bird. 



Though Dr. Leidy considered this humerus as lacertilian, and 

 compared it with that of a monitor, it is readily seen that it does 

 not belong in this group as there is no sign of an epiphysis on the 

 articular end of the bone. The specimen is well fossilized, and is 

 dark green in color save along the condyles, where it is lighter and 

 has a somewhat chalky appearance, a circumstance that perhaps 

 led to its allocation in the Sauria, as it may have been thought that 

 this lighter area was epiphysial in character. 



The two broken vertebrae mentioned must stand as the type of 

 Saniwa major Leidy and are hereby so designated. The avian hum- 

 erus, representing an owl of the family Bubonidae, may be known as 



Minerva saurodosis sp. nov. 



Characters. — Distal end of humerus (figs. 1 and 2) similar in 

 general form to Bubo virginianus (Gmelin) but smaller, with radial 

 and ulnar trochleae reduced in size; ulnar trochleae less produced 

 distally toward outer end; angle at base of ulnar condyle on inner 

 anterior face sloping gently (not abrupt) ; surface above entepicondy- 

 lar process broader, less elevated, sloping gradually into brachial 

 depression; entepicondylar process slighter, lateral margin of bone 

 above ectepicondylar process relatively less broadened, with more 

 rounded margins, expanding to support entepicondyle ; shaft ex- 

 panding somewhat to support ectepicondylar process. 



Description. — Type, Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, no. 9131, 

 distal end of left humerus, from near "Lodge-Pole Trail Crossing 

 Dry Creek," about ten miles from Fort Bridger, Wyoming; Eocene 



(455) 




456 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part III 



(Bridger formation), collected by Dr. James Van A. Carter, between 

 1869 and 1872. 



A bird slightly larger than the Barred Owl, Strix varia Barton; 

 smaller than the Great Horned Owl, Bubo virginianus (Gmelin). 



Distal end of humerus much expanded as in other owls, the dia- 

 meter across the condyles nearly twice that of the shaft ; end of ecte- 

 picondylar process broken away, the shaft sloping out to support 

 base of process; lateral epicondyle produced, shelf-like, between 

 base of ectepicondylar process and radial trochlea, confluent in- 

 wardly with base of shaft, with outer margin below ectepicondylar 

 process raised so that the shelf appears excavated (concave), changing 

 outwardly to a shallow groove delimiting the external face of the 

 radial trochlea and disappearing as it comes to the summit of the 

 articular surface; radial trochlea short, roundly elevated, slightly 

 sigmoid in outline, bulging over shelf of lateral epicondyle, sharply 

 declivous on opposite side, at inner end forming a right angle with 

 shaft; ulnar trochlea relatively small, not abruptly elevated above 

 shaft on inner side (articular surface slightly weathered away so 

 that a slight angular tip was formerly present), slender toward outer 

 margin, so that rounded articular head is reduced; intertrochlear 

 groove narrow, with sharp slope toward radial side 

 and more gradual one opposite toward ulnar 

 trochlea; attachment for pronator brevis exten- 

 sive, roughly elliptical in outline, relatively more 

 extensive than in modern owls as it is nearly as 

 long as globular portion of ulnar trochlea; attach- 

 ments for pronator longus and flexor carpi ul- 

 naris roughly rounded, well impressed; outer face 

 of median epicondyle expanded on both margins, 

 appearing as a somewhat elliptical expansion at 

 lower end of shaft, slightly impressed on outer 

 face above base of entepicondylar process; depression 

 for brachialis inferior distinct but only slightly impres- 

 sed, more distinct toward ulnar margin; olecranal 

 depression fairly deep, abruptly delimited against 

 median epicondyle, with extent less sharply cut off 

 by expansion of ulnar trochlea, merging impercepti- 

 bly into shaft forward; sulcus anconei lateralis nar- 

 row, shallowly and regularly concave, disappearing 

 after leaving lateral epicondyle; sulcus anconei 

 medius broad, divided into two unequal parts by a 

 slightly raised line passing from upper margin of olecranal fossa ob- 

 liquely to margin of shaft at point where the lateral epicondyle ta- 

 pers gradually into straight shaft; bone hollow. 



Measurements (in millimeters). — Lateral breadth of shaft above 

 depression for brachialis inferior 8.5; breadth across distal end 18.7; 



Fig. 1. 

 Minerva sauro- 

 dosis. Anterior 

 view of type. 



Fig. 2. 

 Minerva sauro- 

 dosis. View of 

 condyles. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



extreme length of radial trochlea 7.8; greatest length of attach- 

 ment for pronator brevis 6. 



Range. — From Bridger formation, Eocene, near Fort Bridger, 

 Wyoming. 



Remarks. — The broken humerus described above, here exhumed 

 from a resting place among its cold-blooded relatives, the lizards, 

 represents an owl smaller than Bubo virginianus, similar in size to 

 Pulsatrix perspicillata (Latham), that does not resemble closely any- 

 existing genus of modern North American owls but in a way combines 

 characters pertaining to several. Minerva saurodosis was apparently 

 a bird of moderate flight, as processes for muscle attachment, while 

 strong, are not rugged as they are in the Great Horned and Snowy 

 Owls that perform extended migrations. In general outline the 

 humerus of M. saurodosis suggests that of Bubo but with the 

 processes and tubercles developed even to a less degree than in the 

 Barred Owl, Spotted Owl, or Pulsatrix perspicillata. It is judged 

 that it may have been a resident species. 



The generic allocation of this ancient owl is more or less tentative. 

 In 1913, Dr. R. W. Shufeldt 1 described as Aquila antiquq the hind 

 claw of a bird collected August 4, 1905, by W. J. Sinclair in the 

 Bridger formation at Church Buttes, Wyoming. Later 2 , Dr. 

 Shufeldt, after study of further material, decided that this species 

 should be relegated to the owls and set up the genus Minerva to 

 receive it. The species, of a size much larger than any exist- 

 ing North American Owls, was characterized by the great pro- 

 longation of the dorsal articular surface of the hind claw. This 

 upper angle projects until the articular facet forms almost half of a 

 circle. This character, while more pronounced in owls than in other 

 groups that I have examined (much more than in available Accip- 

 itriformes) reaches a development in Minerva far beyond that of any 

 modern owl that I have seen. To allow flexibility in movement it 

 must have been received in a deeper pit than ordinary on the distal 

 end of the digital phalanx. Otherwise the hind claw would have had 

 little power of backward flexion. A structure similar to this type 

 of articular facet would be formed by ankylosis of the sesamoid 

 found at the upper end of the claw articulation in many lizards, 

 with the end of the bone. 



1 Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., Vol. XXXII, Aug. 4, 1913, p. 297. 



2 Trans. Connecticut Acad. Arts Sci., Vol. 19, Feb., 1915, p. 43. 




As Minerva antiqua represents a specialized type of owl from the 

 Bridger formation it seems more logical at present to describe the 

 present species, also a peculiar form from the same deposits, in the 

 genus Minerva than to erect for it a new genus. With further ma- 

 terial the two may be found widely and trenchantly separated. 

 For the present, Minerva saurodosis is to be distinguished from M . 

 antiqua by its much smaller size. Strangely enough M. saurodosis 

 as represented by this broken humerus has little resemblance to 

 Tyto, a possible indication of the archaic origin of the Barn Owl, 

 while to go farther afield it shows little to suggest any of the Goat- 

 suckers or the Oil-bird (Steatornis) . In other than generalized group 

 resemblances there is in fact slight connection evident between it 

 and any of the other Coraciiform suborders. There are certain 

 resemblances to the Anisodactylae (Kingfishers, Todies, Motmots, 

 etc.), as well as to the superfamily Galbuloidae of the Picariae, 

 containing the Jacamars and Puff-birds, but these similarities are 

 not close. 



(458) 




SCROPHULARIACEAE OF THE WEST GULF STATES. 



By Francis W. Pennell. 



This study deals with the plants of the family Scrophulariaceae 

 occurring in the area west of the Mississippi and east of the Pecos 

 rivers, in the states of Arkansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Texas. 

 It follows closely the manner of presentation of the account of the 

 "Scrophulariaceae of the Southeastern United States," which 

 appeared in these Proceedings 1 in 1920, and the introduction to that 

 paper will in most points apply to this. 



To the West Gulf states I have made two collecting-trips, one 

 in spring and one in early autumn. The latter, the first in point 

 of time, was in 1913 through central Oklahoma, central and south- 

 eastern Texas, Louisiana, and Arkansas, and was in search of the 

 plants herein classed in the tribe Buchnereae. Nearly every species 

 of these genera was found and descriptions were made of the form 

 and color of corolla and other evanescent features. This study 

 was undertaken on behalf of the University of Pennsylvania and 

 its results still await publication in the "Contributions from the 

 Botanical Laboratory" of that institution. Unexpectedly there- 

 fore, a number of new species and geographic varieties will first ap- 

 pear on these pages. 



In late April and May of 1920 I visited all of these states for 

 early-flowering species, obtaining in chief variety species of the 

 genera Penstemon and Castilleja. This second journey, made in the 

 interests of the New York Botanical Garden, took me across 

 southern Louisiana and Texas to Corpus Christi, inland through 

 central Texas and up to the Staked Plains of the northwest, across 

 Oklahoma from west to east, and across the Ozark Mountains 

 and into the pineland of eastern Arkansas. Neither route need 

 now be cited in detail, as all localities are given in the lists which, 

 classified by counties, accompany each species. Suffice it to say 

 for both trips, the field-descriptions obtained, and the observa- 

 tions of the limits of variation of each species, have been beyond 



^roc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71: 224-291. 1920. 



(459) 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



value. In this manner, group by group, should all our vast body 

 of herbarium-conclusions be checked and re-valued in the field! 



The tribe least studied in this area is the Gratioleae. These 

 are summer-blooming and unfortunately were not included among 

 the special objects of search of my first journey. However, only 

 in Gratiola do I feel this loss, and it remains for some future worker 

 to give us needed information of G. gracilis and G. fiava. Most 

 of the tribe but slightly enter the area from the East Gulf states 

 and are species well-known eastward. Of other tribes, I par- 

 ticularly deplore not finding in blossom Leucophyllum, said to be 

 one of the finest ornamental shrubs of Texas. Species of still 

 other tribes were missed, but, while it would have been a pleasure 

 to have seen what must be among the most showy members of their 

 respective genera, Penstemon murrayanus and Castilleja pur- 

 purea, j r et such distinct species are not in need of close analysis. 



When the attempt is made to express in terms of natural areas 

 of distribution the ranges of various species over an area such as 

 this, one realizes how far ahead is still any comprehensive out- 

 lining of phytogeographic areas in our country. However, I have 

 tried to use terms that have some definiteness, physiographic or 

 geologic. In Louisiana and eastern Texas we have some prelimin- 

 ary sketches by Roland M. Harper 2 , in Texas the outlines of 

 Vernon Bailey 3 , W. L. Bray 4 , and R. T. Hill 5 , and in both Texas 

 and Oklahoma excellent geological maps. In each state careful 

 state surveys of plant and animal distribution are needed, and 

 such tasks should call forth local enthusiasm. Mr. Bailey's study 

 is the most accurate of those seen, and applies carefully the 

 system of life-zones evolved by the Biological Survey. Al- 

 though I am an ardent devotee of this system when applied in 

 mountainous regions, I can but wonder what value a life-zone 

 outline can be in such a land as Texas. Life-zones lay stress upon 

 the one factor of temperature; in the Rockies and Andes the limits 

 of bands of temperature-controlled vegetation are distinct enough, 

 but surely across flat and rolling Texas the student of distribution 

 must pay more attention to moisture and soil. However, for 



2 Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 47: 289-317. /. 1-5. 1920. 

 3 N. Am. Fauna 25: 1-222. pi. 1-16, f. 1-24. 1905. 

 4 Bull. Univ. Texas 82: 1-108. pi. 1-14, /• 1~4- 1906. 



6 Physical Geography of the Texas Region (Topog. Atlas XT. S. A., Folio 3) 

 1-12. /. 1-66. 1900. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



species of upland Texas, following Bailey's map, I have given 

 life-zone — but only to make as definite as possible my statement 

 of range. Usually I have been content with other terms. Nearly 

 everywhere through the West Gulf states, I have found collections 

 so few and remote as to make any statement of range only a skeleton 

 outline and a study of probabilities. 



We have quite insufficient collections from the West Gulf states. 

 Yet that there are many who have had some interest in this flora 

 the list of collectors at the close of this article testifies. To all 

 these collectors I feel my indebtedness; as also I am under obliga- 

 tions to the curators of the several herbaria, also listed herewith, 

 who have placed at my disposal the material in their care. The 

 Missouri Botanical Garden has undertaken a special investi- 

 gation of the plant-life of the West Gulf states, and Mr. Ernest J. 

 Palmer's work is giving us our best understanding of their flora. 



In the present outline, as in the study of southeastern Scrophula- 

 riaceae, are given full keys to contrasts noted, but these made to 

 apply only to species of the area considered. A further modifi- 

 cation of the phylogeny of this family, one which was introduced 

 in my study of the " Scrophulariaceae of Colombia," is to consider 

 Mimulus as a tribe apart from the Gratioleae. Synonomy is now 

 given, and the application of each name explained; again this 

 data is only given as it pertains to native species or to species 

 proposed from this area. Available typic and isotypic material 

 has been studied, and the Academy's herbarium has proven rich 

 in the types of Nuttall's and of Leavenworth's Arkansas species. 



To show the basis for the summaries of distribution, and to enable 

 others from other view-points to work with this data, I am citing for 

 native species all localities from which specimens have been seen. 

 These are listed by states, and alphabetically by counties, the name 

 of the county being followed by a colon. One collection to a county 

 is cited. The letters in parentheses following the collection-entry 

 refer to the herbarium in which the specimen may be consulted, 

 and their application may be found from the list of herbaria given 

 at the end of this paper. 



Corolla with the posterior lobes external in the bud. 



(ANTIRRHINOIDEAE.) 

 Capsule septicidal or loculicidal by a simple slit, the septum 

 breaking from the capsule-wall or rupturing. Corolla not 

 spurred nor saccate anteriorly. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Stigma two-lipped. Inflorescence simply racemose. Leaves 

 opposite. Herbs. 

 Capsule septicidal, or secondarily also somewhat loculici- 

 dal; placentae simple. Sepals distinct or nearly so. 

 Leaves and capsule somewhat glandular-punctate. 



I. Gratioleae. 

 Capsule loculicidal (only tardily septicidal, if at all) ; placentae 

 branched and widely spreading. Sepals united over one 

 half length. Leaves and capsule not glandular-punctate. 



II. MlMULEAE. 



Stigma capitate. Capsule septicidal. 



Leaves alternate. Plant frequently with stellate hairs. 

 Corolla slightly zygomorphic. Filaments all with fertile 

 anthers. Inflorescence simply racemose. 

 Corolla yellow or white, rotate, its lobes much longer 

 than the tube. Filaments five. Herbs. 



III. Verbasceae. 

 Corolla rose-pink with orange markings, campanulate, 

 its lobes snorter than the tube. Filaments four (the 

 posterior lost). Shrub. IV. Leucophylleae. 

 Leaves opposite. Plant never with stellate hairs. Corolla 

 tubular-campanulate, zygomorphic, its lobes shorter than 

 the tube. Filaments five, the posterior without anther, 

 the others didynamous. Inflorescence simply racemose, 

 or of cymose fascicles. Herbs. 



V. Cheloneae. 

 Capsule loculicidal, the septum and adjacent capsule-wall per- 

 sisting, the remaining wall splitting irregularly. Corolla 

 saccate or spurred at base of anterior petal. Leaves alternate. 

 Herbs. VI. Antirrhineae. 



Corolla with the anterior lobes external in the bud. Herbs. 



(RHINANTHOIDEAE.) 

 Stamens two, the postero-laterals present, the anterolaterals 

 completely lost. Antero-lateral lobes of corolla external in bud. 

 Not parasitic. Sepals four, the posterior lost. Posterior 

 lobes of corolla completely united. Capsule loculicidal. 



VII. Veroniceae. 

 Stamens four, didynamous, the anterolaterals usually slightly 

 the longer. Usually, perhaps always, parasitic on the 

 roots of other plants. 

 Sepals five, alike, more or less united. Corolla-lobes all 

 somewhat distinct, the two posterior spreading or arched 

 or flattened; anterior lobe external in the bud. Capsule 

 loculicidal. VIII. Buchnereae. 



Posterior sepal shorter or wanting. Corolla decidedly two- 

 lipped, the posterior lobes united and arched nearly to apex, 

 the anterior lobes shorter; anterior or one antero-lateral 

 lobe external in the bud. Capsule septicidal or loculicidal. 



IX. Rhinantheae. 




1921] natural sciences of philadelphia. 463 



1. Gratioleae. 



Leaves entire to serrate. Seeds brown or yellow. 



Corolla with the ridges to the antero-lateral sinuses low and 

 not projecting beyond those points (so anterior fila- 

 ments simple). Posterior lobes of the corolla little 

 shorter than the anterior. Seeds reticulate or lon- 

 gitudinally striate. Pedicels frequently bibracteolate. 

 Anther-sacs proximate, no connective arms developed. 

 Seeds reticulate. Leaves not cordate clasping at base. 

 Pedicels bibracteolate (or in Gratiola the bractlets 

 sometimes several, one or wanting). Leaves 

 pinnately veined (except in Hydrotrida). Styles 

 united throughout. Sepals five, acute or obtuse. 

 Pedicels bracted at base (remote from the calyx). 

 Corolla yellow or white, pubescent within at base 

 of posterior lobes. Stamens four. Sepals unequal, 

 and leaves serrate. Plants erect or ascending. 



1. Mecardonia. 

 Pedicels bracted at apex (just beneath calyx). 



Fertile filaments two, the anterior being rudim- 

 entary or wanting. Corolla yellow or white, 

 its tube much longer than the lobes. Outer- 

 most sepal never more than twice width of 

 innermost. Plants erect. 

 Corolla-tube broad, within densely pubescent 

 on the posterior side. Sepals of nearly uniform 

 length. Plants relatively lax or succulent, 

 the leaves and sepals plane. 



2. Gratiola. 

 Corolla-tube very narrow, within uniformly short- 

 pubescent on all sides. Sepals very unequal 

 in length. Plant stiff, the leaves and sepals 

 re volute. 3. Sophronanthe. 



Filaments four,, all with anthers. Corolla blue 

 or white, its tube little longer than the lobes. 

 Outermost sepal over twice width of inner- 

 most. Plants repent. 

 Corolla pubescent within over bases of all lobes, 

 blue throughout; posterior lobes united to 

 apex. A circle of bristles surrounding the 

 base of the ovary. Outer sepal slightly 

 cor date, evidently exceeding the linear- 

 a ttenuate innermost. Capsuje less than one 

 half as broad as long. Pedicels spreading 

 in fruit. Leaves clasping, broadest proxi- 

 mally, crenate, with five to seven longitudinal 

 nerves. Stem pubescent. Plant lemon-scent- 

 ed. 4. Hydrotrida. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Corolla glabrous within, the throat yellow, the 

 lobes white; posterior lobes distinct. No 

 hypogynous bristles. Outer sepal ovate, 

 scarcely exceeding the lanceolate innermost. 

 Capsule over one half as broad as long. Ped- 

 icels reflexing in fruit. Leaves cuneate at 

 base, spatulate-oblong, entire, with one evident 

 longitudinal nerve. Stem glabrous. Plant 

 inodorous. 5. Bramia. 



Pedicels not bracteolate. Leaves palmately veined. 

 Styles distinct near apex. Sepals four or five, 

 very obtuse, unequal in width. Corolla white. 

 Plants repent; the stems pubescent. 

 Corolla 7-8 mm. long, five-lobed (because the two 

 posterior and the three anterior lobes are all 

 developed and distinct). Stamens four. Sepals 

 five or four. Leaves entire. 



6. Macuillamia. 

 Corolla 2 mm. long, three-lobed (because the two 



posterior lobes have united, and the anterior 

 petal is lost leaving the anterior lip two-lobed). 

 Stamens three (only one of the antero -lateral 

 pair developed). Sepals four. Leaves repand. 



7. Hydrathelium. 

 Anther-sacs separated on short arms of the connective. 



Seeds longitudinally striate, the striae tuberculate. 

 Leaves cordate-clasping at base. Corolla blue. Pedi- 

 cels bibracteolate. Plants erect or repent ; the stems pub- 

 escent. 8. Stemodia. 

 Corolla violet-blue or white, with two raised ridges (each 

 formed by the adherence of a filament) to the antero- 

 lateral sinuses and which project as knob-like pro- 

 cesses beyond those points (the free portion of the 

 filament appearing as a lateral outgrowth of the ad- 

 herent portion.) Posterior lobes of the corolla less 

 than two thirds the length of the anterior. . Seeds with 

 with fine transverse lines. Pedicels never bracteolate. 

 Perfect stamens two. 

 Corolla violet-blue, 6-11 mm. long, the posterior lobes 

 distinct distally. Postero-lateral stamens perfect, the 

 antero-lateral filaments without anthers. Style with 

 an enlarged white base. Sepals five. Capsule two- 

 celled, oval in outline, 2-5 mm. long. Plants erect or 

 ascending. 9. Ilysanthes. 

 Corolla pale-lavender or white, 1.5-2 mm. long, the 

 posterior lobes united throughout. Postero-lateral sta- 

 mens lost, the antero-lateral filaments with anthers. 

 Style filamentous to base. Sepals four (the posterior 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



465 



lost). Capsule one-celled at maturity (by loss of 



septum distaliy, the placentae being short), globose, 



1 mm. long. Plant repent. 10. Globifera. 



Leaves bipinnatifid. Seeds pale greenish-yellow, ridged, with 



faint transverse lines. Corolla lavender. Pedicel not 



bracteolate. Plant erect. 11. Leucospora. 



II. MlMULEAE. 



12. Mimulus. 



III. Verbasceae. 



13. Verbascum. 





IV. Leucophylleae. 



14. Leucophyllum. 

 V. Cheloneae. 



Seeds angled, maturing many to a cell. Corolla-lobes uni- 

 formly colored, shorter than the tube which is not pouched 

 at base posteriorly. Posterior filament a conspicuous pro- 

 cess. Sepals nearly or quite distinct. Inflorescence com- 

 pound. Plants perennial, stiff, 3-20 dm. tall. 

 Corolla 15-50 mm. long, red, blue, or white, its three ante- 

 rior lobes projecting or slightly recurving. Sterile filament 

 elongate, slender, white. Sepals 3-13 mm. long. Seeds 

 irregularly polyedral. Inflorescence a thyrsus or relatively 

 narrow panicle. Cauline leaves sessile, mostly clasping. 

 Stem terete. 15. Penstemon. 



Corolla 6-12 mm. long, red-brown, its antero-lateral lobes 

 vertically projecting and its anterior lobe deflexed. 

 Sterile filament wider than long, two-lobed, yellow or 

 brown. Sepals 2.5-3 mm. long. Seeds oblong, ridged. 

 Inflorescence a panicle. Cauline leaves petioled. Stem 

 quadrangular. 16. Scrophularia. 



Seeds rounded, smooth, maturing one to each cell. Anterior 

 corolla-lobes blue, the posterior white, all longer than the 

 tube which is strongly pouched at base posteriorly. Poste- 

 rior filament a crescentic scarcely raised process. Sepals 

 united over one third length, enclosing over half the capsule. 

 Inflorescence racemose, often several flowers to an axil. 

 Plant annual, lax, 1-3 dm. tall. 17. Collinsia. 

 VI. Antirrhineae. 



Corolla broad (10 mm. wide), blue, with prominent yellow 

 palate, its tube saccate at base anteriorly. Sepals 8-10 mm. 

 long. Leaves petioled, the blade triangular, hastate with 

 broad lobes. Stems elongate, twining. 



18. Maurandya. 

 Corolla narrow, yellow or blue, its tube with a conspicuous 

 spur at base anteriorly. Sepals 3 mm. long. Leaves 

 sessile, linear. Stems erect. 19. Linaria. 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



VII. Veroniceae. 



Leaves whorled. Corolla white or pinkish, its lobes shorter 

 than the tube. Capsule acute, longer than wide, <not flat- 

 tened, dehiscing by short apical slits. Seeds slightly re- 

 ticulate. Plant 10-20 dm. tall. 20. Veronicastrum. 



Leaves opposite or alternate. Corolla blue or white, its 

 lobes longer than the tube. Capsule truncate to deeply 

 notched, wider than long, flattened, dehiscing its entire 

 length. Seeds not reticulate. Plants lower. 



21. Veronica. 



VIII. BUCHNEREAE. 



Corolla yellow or pink, the throat inflated and the orifice 

 widely open. Stamens all with anthers two-celled. 

 Filaments and style nearly as long as or longer than the 

 tube of the corolla. Capsule exserted from the calyx- 

 tube. Pedicels not bracteolate. 

 Anther-cells glabrous or with a few bristle-like hairs at apex. 

 Stigma short, punctiform or capitate. Filaments 

 dilated-flattened and pubescent. Corolla yellow. 

 Corolla densely pubescent within on all sides, its lobes 

 all distinct and slightly shorter than the tube. Fil- 

 aments clearly didynamous, dilated and pubescent 

 throughout. Anther-sacs each opening by a slit its 

 entire length. Style short, thick, more or less bilobed, 

 persistent and reflexed on the capsule. Pedicels 1-2 

 mm. long. Plant stout, 15-20 dm. tall, the leaves 

 10-30 cm. long. 22. Dasistoma. 



Corolla slightly pubescent within (in a ring about the 

 base of the filaments and below the posterior sinus), 

 its lobes longer than the tube, the two posterior united 

 nearly one half their length. Filaments nearly equal, 

 dilated and pubescent proximally for not over half 

 their length. Anther-sacs each opening by a slit not 

 over half its length. Style long, slender, entire, decid- 

 uous, straight. Pedicels 3-12 mm. long. Plants more 

 slender, 2-10 dm. tall, the leaves 1-3 cm. long. 



23. Afzelia. 

 Anther-cells lanose on the valvular surface. Stigma linear, 

 consisting of a line down each side of the linguiform 

 style-apex. Filaments slender, not dilated, more or 

 less lanate. 

 Corolla yellow. Capsule acute to acuminate. Leaves 

 lanceolate to ovate, entire to bipinnatifid, petioled. 

 Stem stout, over 5 dm. tall. 24. Aureolaria. 

 Corolla pink, with red spots within on the anterior side. 

 Capsule rounded, with a mucro. Leaves filiform to 

 lanceolate, sessile. Stem usually slender. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



Stem ascending-scabrous to glabrous. Leaves lan- 

 ceolate to filiform, entire or slightly lobed at base. 

 Pedicels 1 mm. long or more. Calyx-lobes linear to 

 subulate, slightly longer than to much shorter than 

 the tube. Anther-sacs of both pairs of stamens uni- 

 form. Capsule oblong to globose, 3-11 mm long. 

 Seeds closely reticulate. 25. Agalinis. 



Stem retrorse-hispid. Leaves lanceolate and usually 

 auricled at base, or bipinnatifid. Pedicels less than 

 1 mm. long. Calyx-lobes ovate, longer than the 

 tube. Anther-sacs of posterior stamens shorter. Cap- 

 sule ovate, 8-13 mm. long. Seeds reticulate with 

 raised ridges. 26. Otophylla. 



Corolla purple-blue or white, salverform, the tube very narrow 

 and densely pilose within, the lobes widely spreading. Sta- 

 mens each with but one anther-sac developed. Filaments 

 and style less than one half length of corolla-tube. Cap- 

 sule mostly or quite enclosed within calyx-tube. Pedicels 

 bibracteolate. 27. Buchnera. 



IX. Rhinantheae. 



Sepals five, all distinct, the posterior shorter than the others. 

 Pedicels bibracteolate. Capsule turgid, septicidal, only 

 tardily slightly loculicidally dehiscent. Seeds linear, 

 flat, 2 mm. long. 28. Schwalbea. 



Sepals four, those of each side united, the posterior one wanting. 

 Pedicels not bracted. Capsule flattened, loculicidal, 

 splitting even across the septum. Seeds turgid. 

 Corolla greenish to yellow distally, the posterior lobes pro- 

 jecting, not hooded at apex, the anterior lobes much 

 shorter and at least proximally somewhat thickened and 

 deep-green. Capsule cylindric, equally two-celled, in 

 dehiscence splitting on both posterior and anterior sides; 

 shorter than and enclosed within the calyx. Seeds many, 

 reticulate. Bracts foliaceous, usually distally yellow or 

 red. Leaves entire to pinnatifid-lobed. 



29. Castilleja. 

 Corolla yellow throughout, the posterior lobes arched, 

 hooded at apex, the anterior lobes well-developed, mem- 

 branous, thin, colored. Capsule ensiform, unequally 

 two-celled, splitting only on the posterior side; exserted 

 from and twice the length of the calyx. Seeds few, 

 not reticulate. Bracts not colored. Leaves bipinnatifid- 

 lobed. 30. Pedicularis. 



1. MECARDONIA Ruiz and Pavou. 

 Mecardonia R. and P., Syst. Veg. Fl. Peruv. et Chil. 164. 1798. 

 Type species, M. ovata Ruiz & Pavon, of Peru. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Corolla white, its posterior lobes united §-§ their length. Outer 

 sepals lanceolate, rarely more than twice width of inner. Leaf- 

 blades prevailingly lanceolate, conspicuously cuneate at base. 

 Erect or somewhat diffuse. 1. M. acuminata. 



Corolla yellow, its posterior lobes united nearly to apex. Outer 

 sepals narrowly ovate to ovate, more than three times width 

 of inner. Leaf -blades prevailingly ovate or oval, more shortly 

 cuneate at base. Procumbent or ascending. 



2. M. peduncularis. 



1. Mecardonia acuminata (Walt.) Small. 



Gratiola acuminata Walt., Fl. Carol. 61. 1788. Type not verified, but de- 

 scription evidently of plant here considered. Doubtless from lower South 

 Carolina where this plant is common. 



Pagesia leucantha Raf., Fl. Ludov. 49. 1817. "Chelone 2. Rob. p. 406." In 

 Robin, Voy. Louisiane . . . 3: 406. 1807, is a description unmistak- 

 ably of the plant here considered. Robin even mentions two little leaf- 

 lets in each leafaxil, by which are evidently denoted the bractlets sub- 

 tending the base of the pedicel, the presence of which has been general- 

 ly overlooked. Type of genus Pagesia Raf., 1. c. 48. 



Gratiola rigida Raf., Atl. Jour. 1: 176. 1833. "Texas (or) Arkanzas, in my 

 Herbarium." Type not known to exist. Description can apply to only 

 this species, the rigid stems, leaf-outlirie, and narrow calyx-lobes with 

 the superior one broader, being distinctive. 



Mecardonia acuminata (Walt.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1065, 1337. 1903. 



Corolla white, within with longitudinal pink veins on the pos- 

 terior side. Flowering from May to September, and soon ripen- 

 ing fruit. 



Moist sandy loam, or heavier loam soil, usually near streams, 

 in pineland or deciduous woodland, frequent or common through 

 the Coastal Plain of eastern Arkansas, Louisiana and eastern Texas 

 (probably absent from the Mississippi bottom-land); also inland, 

 probably along sandy river- and creek-beds to eastern Oklahoma. 

 Ranges from Maryland to Florida and Texas, extending inland 

 to western Kentucky, southern Missouri and eastern Oklahoma. 



Arkansas. Hot Spring: Eggert(Y). Jefferson Springs, Pennell 

 10662 (Y). Miller: Texarkana, Letterman (Y). Nevada: Pres- 

 cott, Letterman (U). Pulaski: Little Rock, Hasse (Y). 



Oklahoma. Creek: Sapulpa, Bush 407 (U, Y). 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Gregg (A). Calcasieu: De- 

 Quincy, Pennell 10229 (Y). West Carroll: , Moseley (U). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4170 (A, U, Y). Brazoria: 

 Columbia, Bush 1413 (A, Y). Harris: Harrisburg (U); Hous- 

 ton, Fisher 1744 (U). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



2. Mecardonia peduncularis (Benth.) Small. 



Herpestis peduncularis Benth. in Compan. Bot. Mag. 2: 56. 1836. "Hab. 



Texas on the Rio Brazos, Drummond (v. s.)." Type not verified, but 



description sufficiently distinctive. 

 Mecardonia viridis Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1065, 1338. 1903. "Type, 



Heller, PI. So. Tex., no. 1460, in Herb. C. U." Type, collected at Corpus 



Christi, Nueces Co., Texas, Mar. «L 4-21, 1894, seen in Herb. Columbia 



University at the New York Botanical Garden. 

 Mecardonia peduncularis (Benth.) Small, 1. c. 1065, 1338. 1903. 



Closely allied to the wide-spread Tropical Mecardonia procumbens 

 (Miller) Small, but apparently distinguishable by narrower outer 

 sepals and longer pedicels. M. tenuis Small of the Florida Keys 

 and the Bahamas seems to differ constantly from this in possess- 

 ing sepals 5-6 mm. long instead of 7-9 mm. long. 



Corolla yellow, within with longitudinal brown veins especially 

 on the posterior side. Flowering from March to May, and soon 

 ripening fruit; lingering blossoming later. 



Sandy or clayey soil, prairie or open woodland, common on the 

 Coast Prairie of middle coastal Texas, frequent inland across the 

 Coastal Plain and along stream-courses entering the hills of the 

 Edwards Plateau and the Burnet Metamorphic Region; ranges 

 from Walker and Brazoria to Burnet, Bexar and Duval counties, 

 Texas. 



. Texas. Austin: Kenney, Pennell 10305 (M, T, Y); Wallis, 

 Pennell 10269 (C, P, U, Y). Bexar: Comanche Spring, Lind- 

 heimer 1054 (A, T, U, Y); San Antonio. Blanco: Blanco, Rev- 

 erchon 1574 (U). Brazoria: Columbia, Bush 134 (U, Y). Burnet: 

 Fairland, Pennell 10475 (A, H, K, Y). Marble Falls. Comal: 

 Bracken; New Braunfels, Lindheimer 1055 (U, Y). Dewitt: 

 Cuero, Bray 127 (U). Duval: San Diego, Croft (U). Gillespie: 

 Jermy 168 () . Harris : Harrisburg, Pennell 10249 (H, Y) ; Houston, 

 Pennell 10247 (Y), 10252 (C, M, Y), 10260 (A, H, J, L, M, O, P, 

 S, T, U, Y). Hays: San Marcos, Stanfield (Y). Kerr: Kerrville, 

 Pennell 10378 (Y). Lampasas: Lampasas, Plank (Y). Nueces: 

 Corpus Christi, Heller 1460 (A, U, Y). Travis: Barton Springs; 

 Shoal Creek, Young (T). Victoria: Victoria, Lewton 96 (U). 

 Walker: Huntsville, Young (T). 



2. GRATIOLA Linng. 

 Gratiola L., Sp. PI, 17. 1753. 

 Type species, G. officinalis L., of Europe. 

 Corolla slightly exceeding calyx, externally glabrous. Capsule 

 nearly pyramidal, acuminate. Pedicels very short. Leaves 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Part III 



lanceolate-ovate to crenate, rounded at base. Plant pubes- 

 cent with several-celled hairs. 1. G. pilosa. 

 Corolla at least twice as long as the calyx. Capsule broader, 

 acute to rounded. Pedicels longer. Stem glabrous or pubes- 

 cent with one-celled hairs, these frequently gland-bearing. 

 Corolla within throat on posterior side densely pubescent with 

 knobbed hairs. Capsule ovate in outline, 1-5 mm. long. 

 Seeds .3-5 mm. long, semi-globose to oblong. Pedicels 

 slender, at least twice the length of the sepals. 

 Capsule 1-2 mm. long, much exceeded by the sepals. Stem- 

 leaves clasping by a broad base, denticulate, usually at least 

 the upper with resinous dots. Root-stocks developed, peren- 

 nial, slender. 2. G.ramosadrummondii. 

 Capsule 3-5 mm. long, about equaled by or longer than the 

 sepals. Stem-leaves narrowed to a sessile or slightly clasp- 

 ing base, obscurely or not resinous-dotted. Roots appar- 

 ently annual, the main root short. 

 Corolla-lobes white, the tube yellowish. Capsule globose- 

 ovate, about equaled by the sepals. Seeds yellowish, the 

 reticulations relatively fine and not making the seed 

 rough in contour. Stems relatively thick and fleshy. 

 Corolla externally glandular-puberulent. Leaves 2-5 cm. 

 long, ovate-lanceolate, serrate-dentate distally. 



3. G. neglecta. 



Corolla externally glabrous (apparently). Leaves .5-1-5 

 cm. long, nearly linear, entire. 



4. G. gracilis. 



Corolla golden yellow throughout, glabrous externally. 



Capsule ovate-pyramidal, nearly twice as long as the 



sepals. Seeds brown, the reticulations relatively coarse 



and making the seed rough in contour. Stem thin, not 



fleshy. 5. G. flava. 



Corolla within throat on posterior side pubescent with unknobbed 



hairs. Capsule globose, 5-6 mm. long. Seeds .7 mm. long, 



linear. Pedicels stout, less than twice the length of the 



sepals. Leaves and root as in neglecta. 



6. G. virginiana. 



1. Gratiola pilosa Michx. 



Gratiola pilosa Michx., Fl. Bor. Am. 1: 7. 1803. "Hab. in Carolinae inferioris 

 uliginosis [A. Michaux]." Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Corolla white, throat distally with faint bluish-purple lines on 

 all petals. Flowering from June to September, and soon ripening 

 fruit. 



Moist sandy soil, pineland- or deciduous woodland, through the 

 Coastal Plain of eastern Arkansas, Louisiana, and eastern Texas. 

 Ranges from New Jersey to Florida, central Arkansas, and eastern 

 Texas. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Arkansas. Jefferson: Kearney, Pennell 10656 (Y). Pulaski: 

 Little Rock, Letterman 359 (U, Y). 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: De Quincy, Pennell 10237 (Y). Rapides: 

 Alexandria, Hale (Y). 



Texas. Austin: Kenney, Pennell 10304 (Y). Smith: Swan, 

 Reverchon 3218 (U, Y). Welter: Hempstead, Hall 413 (U, Y). 



2. Gratiola ramosa drummondii (Benth.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Gratiola drummondii Benth. in DC, Prod. 10:05. 1846. "In .... 

 Texas (Drummond! coll. 3. n. 285) ... (v. s.)" Isotypes seen in 

 herbaria of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden and 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Corolla with tube dull-yellow, the lobes dull-white, the tube with 

 longitudinal brown lines. Flowering from April to September, and 

 soon ripening fruit. 



Moist or wet sandy pineland, edge of ponds, in and near pineland 

 in the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and eastern Texas, probably in 

 southeastern Arkansas; inland seen from the gravelly bed of the 

 San Bois River in Haskell county, Oklahoma. 



Arkansas. : Leavenworth (Y). 



Oklahoma. Haskell: San Bois River, Bigelow (XL Y). 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: De Quincy, Pennell 10222 (A, H, K, L, 

 M, T, U, Y); Lake Charles, Allison 296 (U, Y); St. Landry: Chat- 

 eigner, Langlois (Y). 



Texas. Angelina: , Reverchon 3930 (U). Montgomery: 



Harmon's Creek, Dixon 453 (Y). Waller: Hempstead, Hall 412 

 (U, Y). 



Apparently Gratiola ramosa Walt. (Fl. Carol. 61. 1788) in- 

 cludes two incipient species to be distinguished as follows: 



Capsule usually wider than long. Sepals more than twice as long 

 as the capsule, usually subtended by one or two sepal-like bract- 

 lets. Stems 2-4 dm. long, more laxly ascending, its leaves 

 usually 1.5-2.5 cm. long. Plant usually less fleshy. South- 

 western Georgia and northcentral Florida to Texas and Okla- 

 homa. G. ramosa drummondii. 



Capsule as long or longer than wide. Sepals usually about twice as 

 long as the capsule, subtended by one small bractlet or none. 

 Stems 1-2 (-3) dm. tall, strictly erect, its leaves usually less 

 than 1.5 cm. long. Plant more fleshy. South Carolina to South- 

 ern Florida, and, occasionally, westward to eastern Louisiana. 



G. ramosa. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



3. Gratiola neglecta Torr. 



Gratiola neglecta Torr., Cat. PI. N. Y. 89. 1819. "Within thirty miles of 

 the City of New York." Probable type seen in Herb, of Columbia 

 University at the New York Botanical Garden. For discussion see 

 Torreya 19: 146. 1919. 



Corolla with tube greenish-yellow, the lobes white, at times 

 pinkish. Flowering from April to June, and soon ripening fruit. 



Wet loam, frequently sandy, usually in deciduous woodland, 

 through the Coastal Plain of Arkansas, Louisiana, and eastern Texas; 

 more common in the upland of Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma. 

 Ranges across the continent northward. 



Arkansas. Jefferson: Jefferson Springs, Pennell 10673 (Y), 10674 

 (A, C, H, K, L, M, U, Y). Pope: Russellville, Pennelf 10624 (M, 

 Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, Hasse (Y). 



Oklahoma. Rogers: Verdigris, Bush 410 (U). 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (L). St. Landry: Ville 

 Platte, Langlois (Y). 



Texas. Bowie: Dalby, Milligan (U). Harris: Hockley, Thuron 

 (U). Liberty: Dolen, Young (T). 



4. Gratiola gracilis Benth. 



Gratiola gracilis Benth. , in DC. Prod. 10 : 402. 1846. " In Texas prope Harris- 

 burgh (Drummond! Coll. 3. n. 284) . . . (v. s.)". Type not verified, 

 and my search for the plant at Harrisburgh in May, 1920, failed. 



Gratiola tarreyi Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1066, 1338. 1903. "Type, Wright 

 Mex. Bound. Surv., in Herb. C. U." Type collected on the " Colorado 

 .and Blanco Rivers, Texas," seen in the Herbarium of Columbia Uni- 

 versity at the New York Botanical Garden. Plant smaller and leaves 

 narrower than described for G. gracilis. Although described as " corolla 

 golden-yellow," the lobes as shown in the type were clearly white. 



Apparently in the Coastal Plain of middle coastal Texas, ex- 

 tending to the base of, or entering along streams, the hills of the 

 Edwards Plateau of central Texas. Little-known. 



5. Gratiola flava Leavenworth, nom. nov. 



Gratiola pusiUa Torr.; Benth. in DC. Prod. 10:402. 1846. "In campis 

 humidis Texas! Arkansas! ... (v. s. comm. a cl. A. Gray.)" Prob- 

 ably based on collections of Dr. Leavenworth. Not G. pusilla Willd., Sp. 

 PL 1: 105. 1797. 



The name "Gratiola flava" occurs with a specimen of Dr. Leaven- 

 worth's, labeled as from "prairies near the Sabine River, Texas," 

 and which is in the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. Very probably this is an isotype of G. pusilla 

 Torr., as specimens of the same collection are in the Herbarium of 

 Columbia University. 



Sandy prairies in and near the pinelands of southern Arkansas, 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



western Louisiana and eastern Texas. Little-known. Flowering 

 in May and June, and soon ripening fruit. 



Arkansas. Leavenworth (Y). 



Louisiana. Hale (Y). 



Texas. Waller: Hempstead, Hall 414 (A, U, Y). 



6. Gratio'a virginiana L. 



Gratiola virginiana L., Sp. PI. 17. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." For 

 discussion of the type of this see S. F. Blake in Rhodora 20: 65. 1918. 



Corolla white, within with longitudinal purple lines, more 

 pronounced on posterior side. Flowering from March to May and 

 soon ripening fruit. 



Wet loam, in shade, usually along streams, in the Coastal 

 Plain of eastern Arkansas, Louisiana and eastern Texas. Ranges 

 from New Jersey to Florida and Texas, inland in the Mississippi 

 Valley to Illinois and Missouri. 



Arkansas. Jefferson: Eggert (Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, Hasse 

 (Y). 



Louisiana. "New Orleans," Drummond (Y). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Letterman (Y). Harris: Houston, 

 Biltm. hb. 1215a (U). 



3. SOPHRONANTHE Bentham. 

 Sophronanthe Benth.; Lindl., Nat. Syst. Bot. ed. ii. 445. 1836. 

 Type species, S. hispida Benth. 



1. Sophronanthe hispida Benth. 



Sophronanthe hispida Benth., 1. c. 445. 1836. "The plant was gathered by 

 Drummond at Apalachicola." Isotype, Drummond 20, seen in Her- 

 barium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Corolla with tube externally yellowish-white, within and on 

 lobes white. Flowering from May to September, and soon ripening 

 fruit. 



To be expected in the dry sandy long-leaf pineland, but speci- 

 mens have been seen only from Cameron Parish, Louisiana. 

 Ranges within this belt, from Southern Georgia and Florida west- 

 ward to Louisiana. 



Louisana. Cameron: Cameron, Tracy 8710 (Y). 



4. HYDROTRIDA Small. 

 Hydrotrida Small, Fl. Miami 165. 1913. 

 Type species, Obolaria caroliniana Walt. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



1. Hydrotrida caroliniana (Walt.) Small. 



Obolaria caroliniana Walt., Fl. Carol. 166. 1788. Type not verified, but de- 

 scription sufficiently distinctive. Doubtless from lower South Carolina, 

 a district where the species now considered is frequent. 



Hydrotrida caroliniana (Walt.) Small, 1. c. 165. 1913. 



Corolla uniformly sky-blue. Flowering from May to September 

 and soon ripening fruit. 



Aquatic in shallow water, sandy soil, edges of ponds and in small 

 streams in long-leaf pineland of southern Louisiana. Ranges 

 within this belt, from North Carolina to Florida and Louisiana. 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Allison 209 (U, Y); Per- 

 kins, Pennell 10213 (Y). Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (C, U) . 



5. BRAMIA Lamarck. 

 Bramia Lam., Encyc. Meth., Bot. 1: 459. 1785. 

 Type species, B. indica Lam., of India. 



1. Bramia monnieri (L.) Pennell. 



Lysimachia monnieri L., Cent. PI. 2 : 9. 1756. " Habitat in America meridion- 

 ali. Hallman." D. Z. Hallman sent to Linne specimens from Spain, so it 

 would appear that the type of this was probably transmitted through him 

 from some source in Spanish America. 



Bramia monnieri (L.) Pennell, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71: 243. 1920. 



Corolla, with tube yellowish within, elsewhere white or tinged 

 with pink. Flowering from April to September, and soon ripening 

 fruit. 



Sandy shores, expecially where subject to inundation, along 

 the coast of Louisiana and Texas', common within tidewater, both 

 where brackish and where fresh; also inland along streams, in 

 central Texas to Burnet and Gillespie counties. From North Car- 

 olina southward through Tropical America. Also in the Old World 

 Tropics. 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Allison 62 (U). Jefferson: 

 Gretna, Ball 363 (U, Y). Plaquemines: South Pass, Tracy & 

 Lloyd 90 (U). 



Texas. Bexar: (U). Brazoria: Columbia, Bush 1567 (U). San 

 Antonio, Schulz 149. Burnet: Granite Mountain, Pennell 1046: 

 (A, H, M, U, Y). Cameron: Rio Hondo, Chandler 7016 (U). 

 Comal: New Braunfels, Lindheimer 1056 (A, T, U, Y). Galveston. 

 Galveston, Ward (U, Y). Gillespie: Threadgill, Jermy 612 (U). 

 Guadalupe: Seguin, Groth 182 (U). Harris: Hockley; Houston, 

 Hall 415 (U). Nueces: Corpus Christi, Heller 1823 (A, U, Y). 

 Travis: Barton Creek, Young (T). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



6. MACUILLAMIA Raflnesque. 

 Macuillamia Raf., Autik. Bot. 44. 1840. 

 Type species, Monniera rotundifolia Michx. 



1. Macuillamia rotundifolia (Michx.) Raf. 



Monniera rotundifolia Michx., Fl. Bor. Am. 2: 22. 1803. Hab. in regione 



Illinoensi [A. Michaux]." Type not verified, but description sufficiently 



distinctive. 

 Macuillamia rotundifolia (Michx.) Raf., 1. c. 44. 1840. 

 Ranapalus rolundifolius (Michx.) Pennell, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71 : 



242. 1920. 



Corolla with tube yellow within, the lobes white. Flowering 

 from June to October, and soon ripening fruit. 



Aquatic in shallow mud-bottomed open ponds, through the 

 upland of central Oklahoma and northern Texas, south to Travis 

 County; also in bottom-lands of the Coastal Plain. Ranges from 

 Indiana and Tennessee to North Dakota, eastern Colorado and 

 central Texas. 



Arkansas. St. Francis: Mud Lake, McAtee 1851 (U). 



Oklahoma. Washington: Copan, Stevens 2082 (U). 



Louisiana. Rapid 3s: Alexandria, Hale (L, U, Y). 



Texas. Dallas: Dallas, Reverchon (Y). Matagorda: Bay City, 

 Fisher 166 (U). Randall: Paloduro Canyon— (T). Tarrant: 

 Polytechnic, Ruth 579 (Y). Travis: Austin, Tharp (T). 



7. HYDRANTHELIUM Humboldt, Bonpland. and Kunth. 

 Hydranthelium H. B. K, Nov. Gen. et Sp. 7:202. 1825. 

 Type species, H. callitrichoides H. B. K., of Venezuela. 



1. Hydranthelium egense Poepp. 



Hydranthelium egense Poepp., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 3: 75. t. 287. 1845. "Crescit 

 in paludibus ad Ega in Brasilia boreali, Octobre lectum [Eduardus Poeppig 

 in 1827-32]." 



There can be no doubt of the identity of the Louisiana aquatic 

 with this species of Brazil. The exceedingly small flowers of this 

 genus and the occurrence of the plants in river-sloughs, cause them 

 to be little observed, and the species may be widely distributed 

 through Tropical America. H. egense has likely been brought to 

 Louisiana by bird-migrants. 



Aquatic in sloughs in central Louisiana. Probably introduced 

 from South America. 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (Y). 



8. STEMODIA Limn'. 

 Stemodia L., Syst. Nat. ed. X. 1118. 1759. 

 Type species, S. maritima L., of Jamaica. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Corolla glabrous within on posterior side, hirsute within anteriorly. 



Bractlets lanceolate-linear, at least half the length of the sepals. 



Lower pedicels as long as or longer than the calyx. Herbage 



finely hispid-pubescent, slightly glandular. Stems erect, 1-6 dm. 



tall. S. schottii. 



Corolla densely pubescent within on posterior side, pubescent with 



shorter hairs anteriorly. Bractlets subulate, less than half 



length of sepals. Pedicels all much shorter than the calyx. 



Herbage white-lanose, not glandular. Stems extensively repent. 



S. tomentosa. 



1. Stemodia schottii Holz. 



Stemodia schottii Holz., in Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herb. 1: 286. pi. 20. 1893. 

 "Habitat, southern Texas, along the Rio Grande. Collected by Dr. Schott 

 at Rio Grande, Texas, in 1853; and by G. C. Nealley, at Comstock, Val- 

 verde County, Texas, in 1889 (No. 305)." Type seen in United States 

 National Herbarium. 



Valverde County, Texas. Ranges from Texas to southern 



California, and south to Jalisco. Nearly related to the wide-spread 



Tropical American S. durantifolia (L.) Sw., but seeming to differ in 



its lower habit and longer pedicels. Needs further field study. 



2. Stemodia tomentosa (Mill.) Greenm. & Thomps. 



Erinus tomentosus Mill., Gard. Diet. ed. VIII. n. 2. 1768. "Sent ... by 

 the late Dr. Houstoun from La Vera Cruz. ' ' Description sufficiently dis- 

 tinctive. 



Stemodia tomentosa (Mill.) Greenm. & Thomps., in Ann. Missouri Bot. 

 Gard. 1:409. 1915. 



Recorded in Coulter's Botany of Western Texas under the later, 

 but more appropriate, name, Stemodia lanata Ruiz & Pavon. 



Sands of the seashore, extreme southern Texas. Ranges south- 

 ward along the Gulf coast to Vera Cruz 



Texas. Cameron: Brazos Santiago, Nealley 348 (U). 



9. ILTSANTHES Raflnesque. 

 Ilysanthes Raf., Ann. Nat. 13. 1820. 

 Type species, /. riparia Raf., of the banks of the Ohio. 

 Pedicels relatively stout, at least in fruit shorter than the bracts. 

 Leaves 1-3 cm. long, usually obviously narrowed at base. Sepals 

 usually finely pubescent, usually about equaling the capsule. 



/. dubia. 

 Pedicels filiform, longer than the bracts. Leaves .5-1.5 cm. long, 

 rounded at base, or at least broadest much below the middle. 

 Sepals glabrous or nearly so, shorter than the capsule. 



/. inaequalis. 



1. Ilysanthes dubia (L.) Barnhart. 



Gratiola dubia L., Sp. PI. 17. 1753. " Habitat in Virgianiae aquosis . . . 



Gron. virg. 129". Type, Clayton 164, identified by Dr. B. L. Robinson in 



Rhodora 10: 67, 1907, as the species here considered. 

 Ilysanthes dubia (L.) Barnhart, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 26: 376. 1899. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



Corolla pale lavender, deeper in color near margin of lobes, and 

 within on the antero-lateral ridges with short yellow hairs. Flower- 

 ing from May to September, and soon ripening fruit. 



Swamp and stream margins, especially where shaded, loam soil; 

 probably most prevalent in the upland of Arkansas and eastern 

 Oklahoma, entering the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and north- 

 eastern Texas, especially in bottom-lands. Ranges from New 

 Brunswick and Ontario to Wisconsin, Kansas, Florida and Texas; 

 also in the West Indies and South America. 



Arkansas. Poinsett: Marked Tree, Bush 141 (U, Y). 



Oklahoma. Ottawa: Miami, Stevens 2313 (U). 



Louisiana. Morehouse: Mer Rouge, Bush 143 (Y). Rapides: 

 Alexandria, Ball 473 (U, Y). West Carroll: , Moseley (U). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4176 p. p. (Y). 



2. Hysanthes inaequalis (Walt.) Pennell. 



Gratiola inaequalis Walt., Fl. Carol. 61. 1788. Type not verified, but is 

 doubtless from lower South Carolina where the plant here considered 

 is frequent. 



Gratiola brevifolia Raf., Atl. Journ. 1: 176. 1833. "Texas [or] Arkansas, in 

 my herbarium. ' ' Type not known to exist. The small incurved purplish 

 corolla would indicate this genus, and the short ovate leaves with pedicels 

 longer than these, this species. Evidently but a scrap of a plant, or the 

 plant would not have been described as simple. 



Hysanthes inaequalis (Walt.) Pennell, in Torreya 19: 149. 1919. 



Corolla as in I. dubia. Flowering from April to September, and 

 soon ripening fruit. 



Swamps and pond-margins, in loam or more usually sandy soil, 

 frequently in open situations about pineland pools, through the 

 Coastal Plain of Arkansas, Louisiana and eastern Texas; inland in 

 eastern Oklahoma and central Texas, to the Burnet Metamorphic 

 Region and even to Tom Green County. Ranges from Massachus- 

 etts to Florida and Texas, inland westward to Missouri and Colorado ; 

 also in the Pacific Coast states, Mexico, West Indies, Central and 

 South America. Intergrades with Hysanthes dubia. 



Arkansas. Benton , Plank (Y). Hempstead: Fulton, 



Bush 1036 (U). Jefferson: , Eggert (Y). 



Oklahoma. Payne: Perkins, Waugh 26 (U); Stillwater. Wash- 

 ington: Capon, Stevens 2115J/£ (U). 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Plank 41 (U). 



Texas. Austin: Kenney, Pennell 10310 (A, T, Y); Sealy, 

 Pennell 10296 (H, U, Y); Wallis, Pennsll 10265 (M, Y). Bowie: 

 Texarkana, Heller 4176 p. p. (U). Burnet: Fairland, Pennell 10476 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



(C, L, Y). Harris: Hockley, Houston, Hall 416 (U, Y). Lee: 



Giddings, Plank (Y). Madison: , Dixon (Y). Tarrant: 



Handley, Ruth 503 (U). Tom Green: , Tweedy (Y). 



10. GLOBIFERA J. F. Gmelin. 



Globifera J. F. Gmel., Syst. 2:32. 1791. 



Type species, Anonymos umbrosa Walt. 



l. Globifera umbrosa (Walt.) J. F. Gmel. 



Anonymos umbrosa Walt., Fl. Carol. 63. 1788. Type, probably from lower 



South Carolina, identified by Dr. S. F. Blake, in Rhodora 17: 131. 1915, 



as the species here consdered. 

 Globifera umbrosa (Walt.) J. F. Gmel. 1. c. 32. 1791. 



Corolla uniformly dull-white. Flowering from May to October 

 and soon ripening fruit. 



Wet loam or in shallow water, in woodland, especially in river- 

 bottoms, through the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and southeastern 

 Texas. Ranges from North Carolina to Florida and eastern Texas; 

 also in eastern Mexico and the West Indies. 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Perkins, Pennell 10217 (A, C, H, K, L, 

 M, T, U, Y). Rapides: Alexandria, Ball 466 (U, Y). 



Texas. Harris: Sheldon, Reverchon 3936 (U). Walker: Hunts- 

 ville, Dixon 368 (Y). 



11. LEUCOSPORA Nuttall. 



Leucospora Nutt., in Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 7: 87. 1834. 

 Typg species, Capraria multifida Michx. 



1. Leucospora multifida (Michx.) Nutt. 



Capraria multifida Michx., Fl. Bor. Am. 2:22. pi. 35. 1805. "Hab. inripis 

 arenosis fluminum amniculorumque, in Tenassee et Illinoensi regione." 

 Type not verified, but description and plate certainly of species here con- 

 sidered. 

 Leucospora multifida (Michx.) Nutt., 1. c. 87. 1834. 



Corolla pale-lavender, deeper on lobes, and lined with deeper 

 lavender; tube within at base greenish-yellow, then yellow on the 

 anterior side, and toward mouth with a purplish ring; white at 

 base of the lavender anterior lobes. Flowering from May to Nov • 

 ember, and soon ripening fruit. 



Sandy or loam banks of brooks or rivers, in open meadows or 

 along shores, through tha upland of Arkansas and Oklahoma south 

 to central Texas, entering the Coastal Plain along river banks and 

 reaching nearly to the sea. Ranges from southwestern Ontario 

 to Kansas, south to Alabama and Texas. 



Arkansas. Benton: , Plank (Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



479 



Hasse (Y). Sebastian: Fort Smith, Bigelow (U). 



Oklahoma. Comanche: Cache, Stevens 1320 (U). Kay: Ton- 

 ka wa, Stevens 1876 (U). Payne: Stillwater, Waugh (U). Woods: 

 Waynoka, Stevens 1769 (U). 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, Ball 491 (U, Y). 



Texas. Bexar: Comanche Spring, Lindheimer 1048 (A, T, 

 U, Y). Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4255 (A, U, Y). Comal: New 

 Braunfels, Lindheimer 1049 (A, T, U, Y). Dallas: Dallas, Rev- 

 erchon (Y). Gillespie: Fredericksburg, Jermy 680 (U). Hays: 

 San Marcos, Stanfield (Y). Kerr: Kerrville, Heller 1926 (A, U, 

 Y) . Matagorda : Bay City, Fisher 158 (U) . Tarrant : Fort Worth, 

 Ruth 102 (U, Y). Travis: Shoal Creek, Young (T). 



12. MIMULUS Linne. 

 Mimulus L., Sp. PI. 634. 1753. 

 Type species, M. ringens L. 

 Corolla yellow. Calyx strongly oblique, its posterior lobe longest, 

 the lateral usually blunt. Capsule dehiscent laterally, apex 

 persistent and valves permanently attached to septum. Seeds 

 ellipsoid-orbicular. Leaf -blades broad-ovate, palmately veined. 

 Stems repent-ascending. (7. Simiolus.) 1. M. glabratus. 



Corolla lavender-violet. Calyx-lobes equal, all acuminate. Cap- 

 sule dehiscent laterally from very apex, and valves splitting 

 from septum. Seeds oblong. Leaf -blades lanceolate to ovate, 

 pinnately veined. Stems e^ect. (II. Eumimulus.) 

 Leaf -blades ovate, petioled. Angles of stem slightly winged. 

 Pedicels stout, in fruit 5-10 mm. long. Calyx-lobes setaceous- 

 tipped, 1-2 mm. long. Corolla 35 mm. long. Seeds pale- 

 yellow. 2. M. alatus. 

 Leaf-blades lanceolate, clasping. Angles of stam not winged. 

 Pedicels slender, in fruit 30-60 mm. long. Calyx-lobes lanceo- 

 late, 3-5 mm. long. Corolla 30 mm. long. Seeds brownish. 



3. M. ringens. 



1. Mimulus glabratus H. B. K. 



Mimulus glabratus H.B.K., Nov. Gen. et. Sp. 2: 370. 1817. " Crescit prope 

 Moran Mexicanorum, alt. 1330 hex." Type not verified, but description 

 evidently of plant here considered. 

 Mimulus Jamesii texensis A. Gray, Syn, Fl. N. Am. 2. 1 : 277. 1878. Texas, 

 Wright, Lindheimer, etc. Probably in drier soils." Probable isotype seen 

 in Herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Very variable in size in all its parts, the larger form being M. 

 jamesii texensis A. Gray or M. inamoenus Greene from Trans- 

 Pecos Texas. 

 Corolla lemon-yellow, within throat on anterior side golden and 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



spotted with many red -brown spots. Flowering from April to 

 August, and soon ripening fruit. 



About springheads and ponds, and along streams, plains of 

 central and western Oklahoma, south to the hills of central Texas 

 (Burnet region and Edwards Plateau). Wide-ranging through 

 America from North Dakota and Colorado south to Bolivia. 



Oklahoma. Harper: Doby Springs, Stevens 318 (U). Love: 

 Thackerville, Stevens 63 (U). Major: Cleo, Stevens 782 (U). 

 Woods: Alva, Stevens 3010 (U). 



Texas. Burnet: Granite Mountain, Fennell 10459 (C, H, Y). 

 Comal: New Braunfels, Lindheimer 1057 (A, T, Y). Gillespie: 

 Crab-Apple, Jermy 164 (U). San Saba: San Saba, Reverchon 

 1341 (U, Y). Travis: Austin, Pennell 10444 (A, L, M, U, Y); 

 Bee Creek; Mt. Bonnell. 



2. Mimulus alatus Ait. 



Mimulus alatus Ait., Hort. Kew. 2: 361. 1789. "Nat. of North America. 

 Introd. 1783, by Mr. William Malcolm." Type not verified, but descrip- 

 tion sufficiently distinctive. 



Corolla pinkish-lavender, within throat essentially as in M. ringens 

 but the spots are smaller and the color fainter. Flowering from July 

 to August and probably ripening fruit in September and October. 



Wet woods and shaded river -bottoms, loam soil, hills of eastern 

 Oklahoma, perhaps near the Red River in Louisiana. Ranges 

 from Connecticut to Ontario and .Kansas, south to Florida, Miss- 

 issippi and Oklahoma. 



Oklahoma. Osage: Pawhuska, Stevens 20033/2 (U). Pitts- 

 burg: near Gain's Creek, Bigelow (Y). 



Louisiana. ,(?) On Red River, Hale (L). 



3. Mimulus ringens L. 



Mimulus ringens L., So. PI. 634. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada, 

 ... Hort. ups. 176 t. 2." In Hortus Upsalensis 176, pi. 1. 1748. 

 Linne described and figured our plant. 



Mimulus pteropus Raf., Fl. Ludov. 44. 1817. "M. alatus Rob. pi. 396." 

 This reference is to C. C. Robin, Voy. Louisiane 3: 396, 1807, in which is 

 given a fuller description. The leaves sessile and semi-amplexicaul are 

 distinctive. Probably from the present state of Louisiana. 



I know of no other record than Robin's of the occurrence of this 

 species in the West Gulf States. But from its wide general range, 

 Nova Scotia to Minnesota south to Florida and Kansas, it should 

 be expected in Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma. 



13. VERBASCUM Linne. 

 Verbascum L., Sp. PI. 177. 1753. 

 Type species, V. thapsus L., of Europe. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



1. Verbascum thapsus L. 



Old fields, roadsides and thickets. Seen from Louisiana and east- 

 ern Texas, probably frequent throughout our area. Naturalized 

 from Eurasia. 



14. LEUCOPHYLLUM Humboldt and Bonpland. 

 LeucophyUum H. & B., PL Aequin. 2: 95. 1809. 

 Type species, L. ambiguum H. & B., of Mexico. 



]. LeucophyUum texanum Benth. 



LeucophyUum texanum Benth. in DC. Prod. 10: 344. 1846. " Juxta Laredo prov. 

 Texas (Berlandier!) . . . (v. s. comm. acl. Hook.") Probable isotype, 

 Berlandier 2070 (labeled "2070-660"), collected "cerca Laredo, Junio, 

 1829," seen in Herb, of Columbia University at the New York Botanical 

 Garden. 



Corolla 18-20 cm. long, larger than, and leaves not semi-petioled 

 as are those of the other species, L. ambiguum H. & B. of central 

 Mexico and L. minus Gray of Trans-Pecos Texas and Chihuahua. 

 Also the leaves and branchlets are in ambiguum more densely tomen- 

 tose with much more widely branching hairs, in minus closely 

 stellate pubescent with scarcely stalked hairs. L. minus is to be 

 looked for in the western Edwards Plateau. 



Corolla "rose-colored with lavender tinge," on anterior side 

 "from base to mouth having a white ground with orange-colored 

 splotches in four or five lines." Flowering, southward nearly 

 throughout year, northward from June to September, and soon 

 ripening fruit. 



Hills and plains, limestone bluffs, from Austin, Travis and Gil- 

 lespie counties, Texas, southward, increasing and becoming a char- 

 acteristic chaparral shrub near the Rio Grande. Ranges southward 

 through Nuevo Leon and Coahuila. 



Texas. Austin: San Felipe, Mexican Boundary Survey (Y). 

 Cameron: Rio Hondo, Chandler 7023 (Y). Duval: San Diego, 

 Croft 50 (Y). Gillespie: Threadgill, Jermy 446 (U). Hidalgo: 

 Hidalgo, Pringle 1957 (A, Y); Mission. Nueces: Corpus Christi, 

 Heller (Y). Travis: Austin, Pennell 10450 (Y), Tharp (T, Y). 

 Uvalde: Sabinal, Reverchon 1572 (P, U, Y); Uvalde. Webb: 

 Laredo, Berlandier 2070 (Y). 



15. PENSTEMON (Mitchell) Schmidel. 

 Penstemon Schmidel, Icon. PL 2. 1762. 

 Type species, Chelone pentstemon L., of Virginia. 

 A. Anther-cells divaricate, opening throughout. Leaves mem- 

 branous or somewhat fleshy, the lower petioled (in P. ambiguus 

 linear), and all the cauline leaves deciduous. 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



B. Corolla scarlet, slightly fleshy, glabrous externally and within, 

 30-35 mm. long, the tube gradually expanding distally. Ster- 

 ile filament glabrous. Upper leaves widely connate. Plant 

 glaucous, forming winter rosettes, the stems strictly annual. 

 (Elmigera.) I. Centranthifolii. 1. P. murrayanus. 

 B B. Corolla purple, red, blue, or white, membranous, the throat 

 usually more abruptly expanding. Leaves all distinct. 

 (Eupensiemon.) 

 C. Leaf-blades broadly-linear to ovate, at least 2 mm. wide. 

 Corolla-throat straight or upcurved, relatively inflated. 

 Sterile filament bearded. Plants forming winter rosettes, 

 the stems strictly annual. 

 D. Corolla-throat inflated-rounded anteriorly, within glan- 

 dular-puberulent or glabrous. Seeds 2-3 mm. long. 

 E. Corolla glabrous externally and internally. An- 

 ther-cells oblong. Sterile filament enlarged 

 distally. Leaves entire, relatively thick, some- 

 what fleshy. Plants glaucous. II. Coerulei. 

 Corolla 40-45 mm. long, the tube much inflated, the 

 lobes slightly spreading. Sterile filament closely 

 short- bearded near the apex. Capsule 20-25 mm. 

 long. Bracts obtuse to acute. 



2. P. grandiflorus. 

 Corolla 15-20 mm. long, lined with deeper color, the 



tube little inflated, the lobes strongly spreading. 

 Sterile filament relatively densely bearded dis- 

 tally. Capsule 10-16 mm. long. Bracts ac- 

 uminate. 

 Corolla pale-lavender, its lobes 3-4 mm. long. Ster- 

 ile filamsnt slightly widening and moderately 

 bearded distally with dull-yellowish hairs. Cap- 

 sule 14-16 mm. long. Bracts broad, mostly 

 surrounding the fruits, becoming conspicuously 

 reticulate. Foliage dull-glaucous. 



3. P. buckleyi. 



Corolla blue, its lobes 4-5 mm. long. Bracts not 

 becoming reticulate. Foliage pale-glaucous. 



Sepals 6-7 mm. long, more attenuate. Sterile 

 filament slightly enlarging and moderately 

 bearded distally with short orange -yellow hairs. 

 Capsule 13-15 mm. long. Bracts, except the up- 

 permost, longer than the pedicels. Leaf-blades 

 linear to lanceolate, acuminate, longer than 

 the internodes. 4. P. angustifolius. 



Sepals 5-6 mm. long, acuminate. Sterile filament 

 more enlarged and usually more densely bearded, 

 the beard of golden-yellow hairs. Capsule 10-12 

 mm. long. Bracts snorter than the pedicels, often 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



only rudimentary. Leaf-blades ovate, obtuse to 

 acutish, mostly shorter than the internodes. 



5. P.fendleri. 



EE. Corolla glandular puberulent externally and internally. 

 Anther-cells as wide as long. Sterile filament slender, 

 not or but slightly enlarged distally. Leaves usually 

 serrate, thinner, firm, membranous. Plants not glau- 

 cous. III. Albidi. 

 Corolla 15-20-25 mm. long, white or violet-tinged, its 

 posterior lobes united less than half their length. 

 Anthers dark violet-gray. Capsule 10-15 mm. 

 long. Stem -leaves broadly linear to lanceolate, en- 

 tire or serrate. 

 Leaves permanently more or less canescent, lanceo- 

 late, those of the basal tufts narrowly ovate. Cap- 

 sule ellipsoid-ovate to ovate in outline, 5-7 mm. wide. 



6. P. albidus. 



Leaves glabrous (except for minute line along midrib 

 above), broadly linear, those of the basal tufts 

 broadly or spatulate-linear. Capsule globose-ovate 

 in outline, 7-8 mm. wide. 



7. P. guadalupensis. 

 Corolla 25-50 mm. long, violet-purple to white, its 



posterior lobes united more than half their length. 

 Anthers gray. Capsule 15-20 mm. long. Stem- 

 leaves lanceolate to ovate, mostly serrate. 

 Corolla 25-40 mm. long, its throat gradually expand- 

 ing from the tube, moderately inflated and not 

 narrowing to orifice. Sepals acuminate. 



8. P. triflorus. 



Corolla 40-50 mm. long, its throat abruptly expand 

 ing from the tube, strongly inflated and narrow- 

 ing to orifice. Sepals acutish to slightly acum- 

 inate. 

 Corolla pale-purple, more widely inflated, usually 

 obscurely glandular within. Foliage pale-green. 

 9* P. cobaea. 

 Corolla deep-purple, less widely inflated, more 

 evidently glandular within. Foliage deeper green. 

 9a. P. cobaea purpureus. 

 DD. Corolla-throat more or less flattened, two-ridged within, 

 anteriorly (scarcely so in P. tubiflorus) . Seeds .8-1 mm. 

 long. 

 E. Corolla white, not lined, glandular-puberulent within on 

 all sides; the throat slightly inflated and scarcely or 

 not two -ridged within, the lobes widely spreading. 

 Stem and leaves glabrous, the latter entire or very 

 nearly so. IV. Tubiflori. 



10. P. tubiflorus. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



EE. Corolla white or pink, usually with lines of deeper 

 color, somewhat pubescent with glandless hairs within 

 over bases of anterior lobes, the throat inflated and 

 two-ridged within anteriorly. Leaves more or less ser- 

 rate. V. Graciles. 

 Corolla with throat much inflated and only slightly 

 two -ridged within anterior.y. Sepals acuminate, 

 more than one half length of capsule. Sterile 

 filament moderately bearded. 

 Anthers barbate. Corolla 25-35 mm. long, more 

 strongly inflated, white or slightly tinged or 

 lined with purple. Stem glabrous or nearly so, 

 semi-shining. 11. P. digitalis. 



Anthers glabrous. Corolla smaller, moderately in- 

 flated, more or less violet-purple. Stem finely 

 pubescent to glabrous, relatively dull. 

 Corolla 20-25 mm. long, usually light violet-purple. 

 Inflorescence narrower than long, in fruit 2-6 

 cm. wide, its cyme-branches of but two or three 

 nodes. Stem-leaves mostly oblong-lanceolate, 

 relatively less expanded at base, less serrate. 



12. P. pentstemon. 



Corolla 15-20 mm. long, violet-pink, paler within. 

 Inflorescence in fruit usually 6-12 cm. wide, its 

 cyme-branches of repeated nodes. Stem-leaves 

 usually much smaller, often somewhat expanded 

 at base, more sharply serrate. 



13. P. tenuis. 



Corolla with throat narrow, strongly two-ridged within 

 anteriorly. Sepals acute or triangular-acuminate, 

 less than or nearly one half length of mature cap- 

 sule. 

 Corolla 15-17 mm. long, white, its throat about as 

 long as the tube, the orifice not closed by the 

 anterior lip. Sterile filament moderately bearded. 

 Leaves below inflorescence relatively well -devel- 

 oped, so stem conspicuously leafy. 

 Free portions of posterior lobes of corolla upcurved. 

 Inflorescence 4-7 cm. wide. Stems puberulent 

 or pubescent. Basal leaves 7-10 cm. long, 

 obtuse to acute, crenate-serrate, the stem-leaves 

 obtusish to acuminate, all puberulent. Plants 

 forming small clumps of few stems. 

 Stem grayish-puberulent. 



14. P. arkansanus. 



Stem pubescent. Stem-leavss broader, nearly 

 ovate. 14a. P. arkansanus pubescens^ 




1921 J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



Free portions of posterior lobes of corolla upcurv- 

 ing-reflexed. Inflorescence 6-12 cm. wide. 

 Stems obscurely puberulent. Basal leaves 12-18 

 cm. long, acuminate, sharply serrate, the stem- 

 leaves acuminate -attenuate, all glabrous. Plants 

 forming large clumps, of very many stems. 



15. P. multicaulis. 



Corolla 20-30 mm. long, pinkish- or purplish-white, 

 its throat longer than the tube, the orifice some- 

 what closed by the anterior lip which upcurves 

 as an arc. Sterile filament densely bearded. 

 Leaves just below inflorescence tending to be 

 much reduced, so stem less "leafy." 



16. P. pauciflorus. 



CC. Leaf-blades filiform, less than 1 mm. wide. Corolla 15-20 

 mm. long, its throat decurved, narrow, not inflated. Ster- 

 ile filament glabrous. Plant not forming winter rosettes, 

 the bases of the stems perennial. VI. Ambigui. 



17. P. ambiguus. 



AA. Anther-cells pendulous (so anthers tend to be horseshoe-shaped), 

 opening partially by proximal slits (which extend over two thirds 

 length of sac). Leaves coriaceous, all sessile, and the lower 

 cauline leaves persistent on the perennial bases of the stems. 

 Corolla deep-carmine, its posterior lobes projecting, the anterior 

 recurved. (Saccanthera.) VII. Baccharifolii. 



18. P. baccharifolius. 



1. Penstemon murrayanus Hook. 



Penstemon murrayanus Hook., in Bot. Mag. 63: pi. 3472. 1836. "A native 

 of San Felipe, in Texas: discovered by Mr. Drummond, in 1834." Grown 

 in the Glasgow Botanic Garden. Drummond, Coll. II, 292, from which 

 collection the seeds for culture were likely obtained, seen in Herb. Columbia 

 University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Sand, open woods or prairies, through the short-leaf pineland of 

 eastern Texas, westward locally in the cross-timbers (oak-woods) 

 and coast prairie; from southwestern Arkansas to San Augustine, 

 Refugio and Milam counties, Texas. Flowering from late April to 

 mid- June. 



Arkansas. : Fort Towson, Leavenworth (A, Y). 



Texas. Ellis: Ennis, Hogan (U). Gregg: Gladewater, Rev- 

 erchon 2542 (M, U). Houston: Grapeland, Tharp (T, Y). 

 Milam: Milano, E. J. Palmer 11661 (M). Refugio: Refugio, E. J. 

 Palmer 9119 (M). San Augustine: San Augustine, E. J. Palmer 

 9512 (M). Smith: Swan, Reverchon 3221 (M, U, Y). Waller: 

 Hempstead, Hall 409 (U, Y). 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



2. Penstemon grandiflorus Nutt. 



Penstemon grandiflorus Nutt. in Fraser's Cat. 1813. "It was first met with 

 near the confluence of the River Platte [with the Missouri] from whence it 

 continues to the Andes [Nuttall]." Probable isotype seen in Herbarium of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Sandy prairies and open woodland, western Oklahoma, south to 

 central Texas; Lower Sonoran Zone (at altitudes of 1,500 to 2,000 

 feet). Ranges through the Plains from Wisconsin and North 

 Dakota to Wyoming and Texas. Flowering in late April and May. 



Oklahoma. Probably on False Washita, between Fort Cobb and 

 Fort Arbuckle, E. Palmer 226 (U, Y). 



Texas. Callahan: Baird (sandy woods, west of B), Reverchon 

 1342 (M). Gillespie: Sandy Creek, Jermy 280 (M). 



3. Penstemon buckleyi Pennell, sp. nov. 



Penstemon amplexicmdis Buckley, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1861: 461. 

 1862. "About 60 miles N. E. of Camp Colorado [Texas, S. B. Buckley] 

 June [1861]." Camp Colorado, as I am informed by Mr. B. C. Tharp of 

 the University of Texas, " was in Coleman County about fifteen miles north- 

 west of the present town of Coleman . " " About 60 miles northeast of " this 

 point would reach Sandy Creek in Stephens County, and it was doubtless 

 in a sand-region that Buckley found his plant. His description must be 

 modified to denote a plant with sterile filament moderately bearded [not 

 "glabro"] and with anthers glabrous [not "piloso-lanatis"]. Type seen 

 in the Herb, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and these 

 discrepancies verified and corrected. Not P. amplexicaulis Moench, Meth. 

 442. 1794. 



Corolla pale-lavender, with lavender-violet lines within on 

 anterior side. Flowering in May and early June. 



Dry sandy soil, sand-hills of western Oklahoma and northwestern 

 Texas; Lower Sonoran Zone (at altitudes of 1,700 to 2,400 feet). 

 Ranges from southwestern Kansas to Taylor, and Ward counties, 

 Texas. 



Oklahoma. Beckham: Sayre, Pennell 10553 (M, Y), 10560 

 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, O, P, S, T, U, Y), 10565 (U, Y). Woodward: 

 Woodward, Eggert (M). 



Texas. Hemphill: Canadian, Eggert (M), E. J. Palmer 14121 



(M). (?) Stephens: , Buckley (A). Taylor: Abilene, Eggert (M). 



Ward: Monahans, Clawson 13907 (U). Wheeler: (observed by 

 Pennell). 



4. Penstemon angustifolius Nutt. 



Penstemon angustifoluis Nutt. [in Fraser's Cat. 1813, nomen nudum;] 

 Pursh, Fl. Am. Sept. 738. 1814. "In upper Louisana, Bradbury. . . . 

 v.s. in herb. Bradbury." According to Bradbury (Travels, 318) this 

 was collected "near the Mintaree village," in what is now North Dakota. 

 Isotype, collected by Bradbury in "Louisiana," seen in Herb. Academy of 



AJa +■ iit*q 1 Soipncps 



Penstemon coeruleus Nutt., Gen. PI. 2: 52. 1818. "Hab. on the plains of the 

 Missouri, near Fort Mandan and the Indian towns," North Dakota. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



Our species would be P. angustifolius caudatus (Heller) Rydb., 

 but that seems to be too inconstantly distinguishable to be con- 

 sidered as more than a form. 6 " 



Corolla coerulean-blue, with violet-pink lines within on anterior 

 side. Flowering in May. 



Sandy prairies, extreme northwestern ("Panhandle" region of) 

 Oklahoma; Upper Sonoran Zone (at altitudes above 3,000 feet). 

 Ranges through the High Plains from North Dakota and eastern 

 Wyoming to northwestern Oklahoma and northern New Mexico. 



Oklahoma. Beaver: Knowles, Stevens 323 (M, U). Cimmar- 

 on: Doby, Stevens 508 (M, U). 



5. Penstemon fendleri Torr. & Gray. 



Penstemon fendleri T. & G., in Pacific Rail. Rep. 2. 4: 168. pi. 5. 1855. On 

 ' 'the Pecos and Llano Estacado [Texas, Dr. W. L. Diffenderfer on Pope's 

 Expedition]." Type not seen, but description and illustration distinctive. 



Corolla blue, pinkish on tube externally, with sharply defined 

 violet-pink lines internally on both posterior and anterior lobes. 

 Flowering in April and May. 



Sandy or gravelly loam, frequently over limestone, on plains or 

 bluffs, most common on the Staked Plains of northwestern Texas, 

 entering extreme western Oklahoma, and crossing the escarpment 

 southward to Menard and Tom Green Counties, Texas; chiefly 

 Upper Sonoran Zone (at altitudes above 1,600 feet). Also in east- 

 ern New Mexico. 



Oklahoma. Beaver: , Stevens 352 (M, U). 



Texas. Fisher: Grady, Shepherd (U). Garza: Post, Pennell 



10533 (M, T, Y). Hale: Hale Center, (T). Hall: Estelline, 



Reverchon (M). Martin: Stanton, Eggert (M). Menard: Men- 

 ard, E. J. Palmer 11881 (M). Mitchell: Colorado, E. J. Palmer 

 13796 (M). Nolan: Sweetwater, E. J. Palmer 13736 (M). Pot- 

 ter: Ady, Pennell 10547 (A, M, T, U, Y). Randall: Canyon, 

 Pennell 10540 (Y), 10540 (C, H, O, P, U, Y). Runnels: Ballinger, 

 Pennell 10509 (T, Y). Swisher: Tulia, Pennell 10538 (A, C, H, J, 

 J, L, M, O, S, T, U, Y). Tom Green: San Angelo, Pennell 10486 

 (A, C, H, K, M, T, U, Y). 



6 . Penstemon albidus Nutt. 



Penstemon albidus Nutt., Gen. PI. N. Am. 2: 53. 1818. "Hab. On the plains 

 of the Missouri, common, from the confluence of the River Platte to the 

 Mountains." Type seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. 



8 See discussion in Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herb. 20: 362. 1920. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Corolla violet-white, with many fine violet lines within throat 

 on anterior side. Flowering from early May to early June. 



Sandy or gravelly loam (frequently calcareous), on bluffs, low 

 hills or prairies, western Oklahoma and northwestern Texas; 

 chiefly Upper Sonoran Zone (at altitudes above 1,800 feet) . Ranges 

 through the High Plains from Manitoba and Montana to northwest- 

 ern Texas. 



Oklahoma. Beaver: Stevens 353 (M, U). (Beckham: observed 

 by Pennell). Harper: Buffalo, Stevens 304 (M, U). Woodward: 

 Woodward, Eggert (M). 



Texas. Armstrong: Gamble's Ranch, E. J. Palmer 13906 (M). 

 Garza: Post, Pennell 10530 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, S, T, U, Y). 

 Potter: Ady, Pennell 10549 (A, O, T Y), Amarillo. Randall: 

 Canyon, Pennell 10545 (C, H, M, P, T, U, Y). 



7. Penstemon guadalupensis Heller. 



Penstemon guadalupensis Heller, in Contrib. Herb. Franklin & Marshall 

 Coll. 1:92. pi. 7. 1895. "Very plentiful in dry, stony ground along the 

 Guadalupe and Town Creek [near Kerrville, Texas], altitude 1600-1650 

 feet, April 19, [1894, A.. A. Heller] 1609." Isotype seen in herbarium of 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, etc. 



"Corolla white or sometimes faintly tinged with purple." Flow- 

 ering in April and May. 



Sandy, gravelly or rocky open loam or clay, probably calcareous, 

 Edwards Plateau, Concho and Lampasas counties; Lower Sonoran 

 Zone (at altitudes from 1,300 to 2,200 feet). From Howard and 

 Comanche to Kerr Counties, central Texas. 



Texas. Brown: , Reverchon 698 (M, U). Comanche: 



Comanche, Eggert (M). Gillespie: Fredericksburg, Bray 291 (T, 

 U); Pedernales. Howard: Big Spring, Eggert (M). Kerr: Kerr- 

 ville, Heller 1609 (A, M, U, Y). Nolan: Sweetwater, E. J. Palmer 

 13735 (M). 



8. Penstemon triflorus Heller. 



Penstemon triflorus Heller, in Contrib. Herb. Franklin and Marshall Coll. 

 1 : 92. pi. 8. 1895. "Found only along the summit of one hill northeast of 

 Kerrville [Texas], altitude 2000 feet . . . April 26 [1894], [A. A. 

 Heller] (1654)." Isotypes seen in the herbaria of the Academy of Natural 



SciGUCGS etc 



Penstemon' helleri Small, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 25: 471. 1898. "These 

 specimens [Heller 1610] form the type . . . The original specimens 

 are from Kerrville, Kerry County, Texas, collected in April and June, 

 1894." Type collected April 19, 1894, seen in the Herbarium of Columbia 

 University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Plants very variable, apparently tending to two types, which are 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 489 



predominantly plants of open or of shade. Both however, 

 are frequently intermixed. One- has corolla white or pale-pink, 

 with relatively wider throat, the pedicels and peduncles shorter so 

 that the thyrsus is more congested, and the leaves broader; this, 

 the prevalent form, is the plant called by Heller P. cobaea and by 

 Small P. helleri. The other has corolla darker, frequently bright 

 pink-red, with narrower throat more glandular within, the ped- 

 uncles and often fewer pedicels longer so that the thyrsus is more 

 lax, arid the leaves frequently narrower; this would be typical P. 

 triflorus. In both the corolla has conspicuous deeper pink lines, 

 especially on the anterior side. However, field-study convinces 

 me that no real distinction of these trends can be made. All are 

 well shown in my series from Kerrville, Texas. Flowering from 

 March to May. 



Thin calcareous loam, gravelly or rocky places, common on the 

 hills of the Edwards Plateau, less frequent in the Lampasas and 

 Concho countries; lower Sonoran Zone (at altitudes from 500 to 

 2,000 feet) . From Lampasas and Tom Green to Bexar and Valverde 

 Counties, central Texas. 



Texas. Bexar: Beckmann, Pennell 10407 (T, Y); Camp Stan- 

 ley Jnc, Pennell 10409 (Y). Burnet: Marble Falls, Bray 109 (Y). 

 Cooleman: Talpa, Pennell 10515 (Y). Comal: Bracken, Groth 23 

 (Lf). Crockett: Ozona to Devils River, Hanson 516 7 (U, Y). Gil- 

 lespie: Half-Moon Mt., Jermy 830 (M). Kendall: Boerne, Pennell 

 10415 (O, Y). Kerr: Kerrville, Heller 1610 (A, M, U, Y), 1654 

 (A, U, Y), Pennell 10377 (A, H, M, U, Y), 10380 (C, J, L, Y), 

 10382 (Y), 10397 (Y) 10398 (Y), 10399 (Y), 10400 (K, Y), 10402 

 (T, Y); Lacey's Ranch; Turtle Creek. Menard, Menard, E. J. 

 Palmer 1 1865 (M) . Real : Leakey, Lea (U) Tom Green : San Angelo, 

 Pennell 10500 (A, C, H, M, T, U, Y>. Travis: Glen Rose, Hill (U). 

 Uvalde: Con Can, Sabinal, E. J. Palmer 10221 (Y). 



9. Penstemon cobaea Nutt. 



Penstemon cobaea Nutt., in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 182. 1837. "Hab. 

 In the sterile and denudated portions of the prairies of Red River [Ark- 

 ansas Territory], in calcareous soil." Type seen in Herb. Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Corolla white or pale violet-purple, irregularly lined with violet; 

 probably frequently somewhat darker, as the type is described as 

 "bluish-purple." Flowering in April and May. 



7 Corolla also with short hairs on the anterior side. 




490 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Black or red loam, usually calcareous, central and western prairies 

 of Oklahoma, on Abilene and Lampasas plains, Grand and espec- 

 ially the Black Prairie, south to Bexar County, central Texas; also 

 in post-oak woods- eastward in Waller County; Austroriparian and 

 Lower Sonoran Zones (at altitudes of 300 to 2,000 feet). Central 

 Plains of Oklahoma and Texas, south to Bexar County. Ranges 

 north to Kansas, and, including the following variety, into the 

 Ozark Mountains of southern Missouri and Arkansas. 



Oklahoma. Cleveland: Norman, Emig 485 (M). Custer: 

 Weatherford, Pennell 10572 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, O, P, S, T, U, Y). 

 Woods: Cora, Stevens 539 (M, U). 



Texas. Bexar: San Antonio, Thurber (Y). Comal: New 

 Braunfels, Pilsbry (A). Comanche: Comanche, Eggert (M). 

 Dallas: Dallas, Pennell 5402 (P, Y). Grayson: Denison, Letter- 

 man (M); Sherman. Hays: San Marcos, Stanfield (Y). Hood: 

 Granbury, Eggert (M). Kaufman: Terrell, Tyler (U). Mc- 

 Lennan: Waco, Griffith (Y). Medina: Hondo, Pilsbry (A). San 



Augustine : San Augustine, Leavenworth (A) . Shackelford : , Hol- 



stein. Tarrant: Fort Worth, Ruth 101 (M, U, Y). Taylor: 

 Buffalo Gap, Havard (U). Travis: Austin, Pennell 10448 (U, Y). 

 Waller: Hempstead Hall 408 (M U Y). Wichita: Burkburnett 

 Tharp 522 (Y). 



9a. Penstemon cobaea purpureus Pennell, var. nov. 



Corolla 38-43 mm. long, less inflated, violet-purple and with dark 

 violet lines; evidently glandular-pubescent within. Plant 10-12 dm. 

 tall. Leaves usually longer, 10-15 cm. long, dark green. 



Type, limestone cliffs, Penters Bluff, Izard Co., Arkansas, collect- 

 ed in flower June 1, 1920, F. W. Pennell 10681, in the Herbarium 

 of the New York Botanical Garden. 



Here considered as a geographic variety of the prairie species, 

 Penstemon cobaea, but further field-study is needed to decide their 

 mutual status. A strikingly distinct plant, when contrasted 

 alive with the paler-flowered species, but specimens of the latter 

 show great range of variation in most features. Flowering in 

 May and June. 



Rocky calcareous barrens and cliffs, Ozark Mountains of northern 

 Arkansas and southern Missouri. 



Arkansas. Izard: Penters Bluff, Pennell 10681 (A, C, H, K, 

 L, M, O, T, U, Y). Marion: Cotter, E. J. Palmer 14320 (M). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



10. Penstemon tubiflorus Nutt. 



Penstemon tubiflorus Nutt., in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 181. 1837. "Hab. 

 In wettish prairies, from Forth Smith to Red River [Arkansas Territory. 

 T. Nuttall]." Type seen in Herb, of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. Description of corolla as villose within is difficult to 

 account for, otherwise our plant is certainly described. 



Corolla white throughout. Flowering in late May and early- 

 June. . 



Sandy or light loam, deciduous or mixed woodland in the Ozark- 

 Ouachita Mountains and hills of Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma, 

 and on prairies in eastern Oklahoma. The plants seen from the 

 Ozarks of Arkansas have habitually a laxer thyrsus and slightly 

 smaller corollas than have those from the prairies and woods of 

 Oklahoma. Also in Ozarks of southern Missouri. 



Arkansas. Madison: Pettigrew, Howell 671 (U). Pope: Rus- 

 sellville, Pennell 10628 (H, M, Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, Pennell 

 10643 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, O, P, S, T, U, Y). Sebastian: Fort 

 Smith, Bigelow (U, Y). Washington: Fayetteville, Harvey (M). 



Oklahoma. Creek: Sapulpa, Bush 1199 (M, Y). McCurtain: 

 Shawneetown, Houghton 3889 (Y). Pittsburg: McAlester, Penn- 

 ell 10595 (A, C, H, J, K, M, O, S, T, U, Y). Wagoner: Wagoner, 

 Pennell 10610 (A, M, U, Y). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4169 (Y). 



11. Penstemon digitalis Nutt. 



Penstemon digitalis Nutt.; Sims, in Bot. Mag. 52: pi. 2587. Aug. [1], 1825. 

 "Communicated by Robert Barclay, . ... to whom the seeds were sent by 

 Professor Nuttall, in March 1824, under the name which we have adopted. 

 Native of the Arkansas territory." Careful description and illustration 

 given. Later, independently redescribed by Nuttall himself in Trans- 

 Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 181. 1837. 



Chelone digitalis (Nutt.) Sweet, Brit. Fl. Gard. pi. 120. Aug. 1, 1825. "Pen- 

 stemon Digitalis Nutt. Found by Mr. Nuttall in the Arkansas territory 

 of North America. The plant from which our drawing was taken was 

 received last autumn from New York, by Mr. Anderson, of the Apoth- 

 ecaries' Garden at Chelsea, to whom it was sent by Mr. Hogg." A 

 careful description and illustration certainly of the plant now considered, 

 the description being apparently more accurate than Nuttall's own, or 

 that of Sims, in mentioning the pubescence of the anthers. 



Corolla, westward, white or externally slightly purplish; east- 

 ward the corolla tends to be smaller, more purplish-tinged and with 

 fine violet lines within throat. Flowering from mid- April to early 

 June, depending upon latitude. 



Loam or sandy soil, open woodlands, meadows and prairies; 

 through the Ozark-Ouachita highland of Arkansas and southeastern 

 Oklahoma; thence entering surrounding lowland, cleared Mississ- 

 ippi bottomland of northeastern Arkansas, fields and prairies of 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



northeastern Texas, etc. Native also in southern Missouri and 

 widely introduced northeastward to the Atlantic states. 



Arkansas. Clay: Corning, Eggert (M, Y). Izard: Guion, 

 Pennell 10687 (Y). Jefferson: Kearney, Pennell 10657 (C, Y). 

 Nevada: Prescott, Hollister (U). Pope: Russellville, Pennell 10, 

 633 (H, M, U, Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, Pennell 10650 (A, L, Y). 

 Washington: Fayetteville, F. L. Harvey (M). 



Oklahoma. McCurtain: Idabel, Stevens 3623 (U). Pittsburg: 

 McAlester, Pennell 10589 (K, O, S, T, U, Y). 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Cocks (L). Natchitoches: 

 Natchitoches, E. J. Palmer 7503 (M). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4169 p. p. (A, U). Dallas: 

 Dallas, Reverchon 3220 (Y). Tom Green: San Angelo, Reverchon 

 3933 (M). Van Zandt: Grand Saline, Reverchon 3934 (M). 



12. Penstemon pentstemon (L.) MacM. 



Chelone pentstemon L., Sp. PI. 612. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." Type not 

 verified, but must have been the species now considered, because in 1753 

 this was certainly the only essentially glabrous species of the Atlantic sea- 

 board. 



Penstemon laevigatus Ait., Hort. Kew. 2: 361. 1789. "Chelone Pentstemon 

 J. F. Miller ic. 4 . . . Nat. of North America. Cult. 1776, by John 

 Fothergill, M. D." The description, and also the plate of Miller, clearly 

 denote the species now considered. 



Bartramia pulchella Salisb., Prod. Stirp. Chapel Allerton 99. 1796. New 

 name for Penstemon laevigatus Ait. Type of genus Bartramia Salisb. 



Penstemon pentstemon (L.) MacM., in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club. 19: 15. 1892. 



Corolla externally violet-purplish, deepest on tube, on throat 

 and lobes pale-purplish, nearly white on anterior side; within white, 

 and within throat on anterior side with more or less evident violet 

 lines. Sterile filament with yellow hairs. Flowering in May. 



Meadows, or more rarely open pine-woods, pineland of central 

 Louisiana. From Virginia to northern Florida and Louisiana, 

 inland through the eastern Mississippi Valley to Indiana. 



Aekansas. Hempstead: Fulton (low woods), E. J. Palmer 

 5418 (M). 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, (dry pine- woods), Ball 616 

 (M, Y). 



13. Penstemon tenuis Small. 



Penstemon tenuis Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1061, 1337. 1903. "Type, La., 

 Hale, Apr., in Herb. C. U." Type, from "fertile soils," Louisiana, seen 

 in the Herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical 

 Garden. 



Corolla violet-pink externally, within paler, with or without 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



deep- violet lines. Flowering from early April to early June, depend- 

 ing upon latitude. 



Heavy loam, swales and low woodland, mostly in alluvial soil, 

 along the bottomlands of the lower Mississippi valley north to 

 northeastern Arkansas, and also westward near the Gulf coast to 

 the Brazos River, Texas. Near sea-level in Louisiana, Arkansas, 

 and Texas ; seen from east of the Mississippi River only from Tangi- 

 pahoa Parish, Louisiana. 



Arkansas. Hempstead: Fulton, E. J. Palmer 10514 (M). 

 Independence: Newark, Pennell 10699 (A, C, H, J, K, M, U, Y). 

 Miller: Mandeville, Eggert (M) . Pulaski: Little Rock, Hasse (Y). 



Louisiana. Acadia: Crowley, Pennell 10186 (A, H, L, S, U, Y). 

 Rapides: Alexandria, Ball 654 (M). 



Texas. Brazoria: Brazoria; Columbia, Bush 115 (M, Y). 

 Fort Bend: Richmond, Bray 79 (T, U). Harris: Houston, Pen- 

 nell 10258 (T, Y). Liberty ^Liberty, E. J. Palmer 7727 (M), 

 9598 (M). 



14. Penstemon arkansanus Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stems clustered, several from a clump, 3-6 dm. tall, grayish-pub- 

 erulent over entire surface, often purple. Leaves membranous, 

 slightly paler beneath, finely puberulent on both surfaces; the 

 lowest narrowed to petioJe-like bases, the longest 7-10 cm. long, 

 obtuse to acute, crenate-serrate; the upper lanceolate,, acutish to 

 acuminate, somewhat serrate; the bracts much reduced. Thyrsus 

 less than one half the height of the plant, longer than wide, of 3-9 

 fascicles, each of two axillary branches which repeatedly branch 

 cymosely, the pedicels much shorter than the primary peduncle. 

 Sepals in anthesis 2-3 mm. long, in fruit 4-5 mm. long, ovate, acute 

 to acuminate, obscurely scarious-margined, glandular-pubescent. 

 Corolla 15-17 mm. long, the tube and throat 11-12 mm. long, the 

 throat narrow, slightly inflated, two-ridged within distally on 

 anterior side, the orifice open; the two posterior lobes 2-2.5 mm. 

 long, united over one half length, their free portions upcurved-spread- 

 ing; the three anterior lobes 4-5 mm. long, united at base; the cor- 

 olla externally finely glandular -pubescent, internally slightly pubes- 

 cent over bases of anterior lobes; white, on anterior side with violet 

 lines. Anther-cells divaricate, oblong, dark-violet, .6-.7 mm. long, 

 glabrous, opening throughout. Sterile filament slightly exserted, 

 flat, not wider distally, moderately bearded distally with yellow 

 hairs. Capsule at least 6-7 mm. long, ovate-acuminate in outline, 

 glabrous, not seen mature. 



Type, shale and sandstone woods, Pulaski Heights above Little 

 Rock, Pulaski County, Arkansas, collected in flower and young 




494 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



fruit May 31, 1920, F. W. Pennell 10640; in Herbarium of the New 

 York Botanical Garden. 



This was the plant called "Penstemon levigatum" by Nuttall 

 in his Flora of Arkansas. 



Near Penstemon pallidus Small, a species which has softly pubes- 

 cent leaves and more acuminate sepals. 



Thin rocky or sandy soil, shale or sandstone, Ozark and Ouachita 

 mountains and hills of Arkansas and southeastern Oklahoma. 

 Flowering in late April and May. 



Arkansas. Carroll: Beaver; Eureka Springs, Bush 1522 (M). 

 Garland: Hot Springs, Foreman (U). Pope: Russellville, Pennell 

 10629 (M, Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, Pennell 10640 (A, C, H, J, K, 

 L, M, S, T, U, Y), 10651 (A, C, H, O, P, U, Y). 



Oklahoma. Leflore: Page, Stevens 1374 (M, U). 



14a. Penstemon arkansanus pubescens Pennell, n. var. 



Stem 4-7 dm. tall, pubescent with fine glandless hairs, and also 

 somewhat hirsute with spreading mostly gland-tipped hairs. Stem- 

 leaves 20-40 mm. wide, nearly ovate, acuminate, serrate, pubescent 

 beneath on the principal veins. Inflorescence as in the species. 



Type, sandstone woodland, Penters Bluff, Izard County, Ark- 

 ansas, collected in late flower and young fruit, June 1, 1920, F. W. 

 Pennell 10679; in Herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden. 



On sandstone and limestone, Izard county, Arkansas; probably 

 through northern Ozarks of northern Arkansas and southern 

 Missouri. 



Arkansas. Izard: Guion (limestone cliff), Pennell 10685 (A, Y), 

 (sandstone cliff), Pennell 10690 (Y); Penters Bluff (sandstone wood- 

 land), Pennell 10679 (H, M, U, Y). 



15. Penstemon multicaulis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Stems many from a clump, 4-7 dm. tall, obscurely puberulent; 

 often purplish. Leaves membranous, slightly paler beneath, glab- 

 rous on both surfaces; the lowest narrowed to petiole-like bases, 

 the longest 12-18 cm. long, acuminate, sharply serrate; the upper 

 lanceolate, mostly attenuate-acuminate, serrate; the bracts much 

 reduced. Thyrsus less than half the height of the plant, little 

 longer than wide, of 6-9 fascicles, each of two axillary branches 

 which repeatedly branch cymosely, the pedicels much shorter than 

 the long primary and secondary peduncles. Sepals in anthesis 3-4 

 mm. long, in fruit 5-6 mm. long, ovate-acuminate, obscurely scar- 

 ious margined, glandular-pubescent. Corolla 15-17 mm. long, the 

 tube and throat 11-12 mm. long, the throat narrow, slightly inflated, 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



two-ridged within on anterior side, the orifice open; the two post- 

 erior lobes 2-2.5 mm. long, united about one half length, their free 

 portions upcurved-reflexed; the three anterior lobes 4-5 mm. long, 

 united at base; the corolla externally finely glandular -pubescent, 

 internally slightly pubescent over bases of anterior lobes; white, 

 within throat, especially median to each lobe, with a few violet 

 lines. Anther -cells divaricate, oblong, intensely violet, .5-.6 mm. 

 long, glabrous, opening throughout. Sterile filament slightly 

 exserted, flat, not wider distally, moderately bearded distally with 

 yellowish hairs. Capsule at least 6 mm. long, ovate-acuminate in 

 outline, glabrous, not seen mature. 



Type, sandstone and shale cliffs, Ozark, Franklin County, Ark- 

 ansas, collected in flower May 29, 1920, F. W. Pennell 10616; 

 in the Herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden. 



Along river cliffs in southern Ozarks of western Arkansas. Dis- 

 tribution should be studied, and constancy of characters of dis- 

 tinction from P. arkansanus noted. These seem to be well-marked. 



Arkansas. Franklin: Ozark, E. J. Palmer 8143 (M), Pennell 

 10616 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, O, P, S, T, U, Y). Also seen from Frisco 

 Springs, "Northwest Arkansas," Wells 49 (U). 



16. Penstemon pauciflorus Buckley. 



Penstemon pauciflorus Buckley, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1861 : 461. 

 1862. "Past [=Post] oak woods south of Fort Belknap, [Texas, S. B. 

 Buckley, May, 1860-61]." Fort Belknap was in Young County on the 

 Brazos. The description inapplicable to any Penstemon, and at variance 

 with the plant to which the name is now applied in these points: segments 

 linear r subulate, corolla-tube constricted to scarcely a line in width and 

 sterile filament glabrous with cilated apex. Fortunately, Dr. A. Gray had 

 seen Buckley's material in the two collections to which he sent specimens, 

 the herbarium of the Philadelphia Academy, and that of Elias Durand. 

 In his criticism of Buckley's proposed species [in Proc. Acad. Sci. Phila. 

 1862: 165. 1863] he tells us that Buckley confused, with a genuine Pen- 

 stemon, Phlox pilosa L., and that most of the description applies to the lat- 

 ter! Also that the Penstemon, "a slender form of P. pubescens," has a 

 sterile filament "heavily bearded," a feature particularly true of the pres- 

 ent species. The specific name should certainly apply to the Penstemon 

 component. As there appears to be but one species of this genus charac- 

 teristic of post-oak woods in Texas, and that one has these features, 

 the Penstemon element of Buckley could scarcely fail to have been the 



Slant now considered. As no Penstemon was supplied to the Academy 

 erbarium the type must be the plant of the Durand Herbarium, but 

 either this admixture was culled out by Durand from his material, which 

 is now in the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delpha, or else it is included in the portion of his herbarium which went 

 to Paris. Accordingly it seems best to redescribe the species. 



Stems scarcely clustered, frequently but one from a root, slender, 

 3-7 dm. tall, minutely pubescent over entire surface, green or purp- 

 lish. Leaves membranous, green, slightly paler beneath, finely 

 pubescent to nearly glabrous; the lowest narrowed to petiole-like 

 bases, the longest ovate to oblong, 3-10 cm. long, obtuse, crenate- 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



serrate, the upper lanceolate or oblong-lanceolate, obtuse or obtus- 

 ish, serrate; the bracts much reduced. Thyrsus about one third 

 the height of the plant, longer than wide, of 3-6 fascicles, each of 

 two axillary branches, which cymosely branch 2-3 times, rarely 

 more, the pedicels shorter than the primary peduncle. Sepals 

 in anthesis 2-6 mm. long, in fruit 3-7 mm. long, oblong-ovate to 

 ovate, acute to acuminate, slightly or not scarious margined, gland- 

 ular-pubescent. Corolla 20-28 mm.. long; the tube and throat 15- 

 20 mm. long, the throat narrow, slightly inflated, strongly two- 

 ridged within on anterior side, the orifice nearly closed by the up- 

 curved base of the anterior lip; the two posterior lobes 3-5 mm. long, 

 united and arched less than or about one half length, their free 

 portions spreading; the three anterior lobes 5-8 mm. long, united 

 at base; the corolla externally finely glandular-pubescent, internally 

 slightly pubescent over the base of the anterior lobes; whitish or 

 purplish-white, on anterior side with fine violet lines. Anther-cells 

 divaricate, oblong, violet, 8. mm. long, microscopically puberulent, 

 opening throughout. Sterile filament slightly exserted, flat, not 

 wider distally, densely bearded with deep-yellow, becoming brown- 

 ish-yellow hairs. Capsule 8-10 mm. long, ovate-acuminate in out- 

 line, glabrous, brown. Seeds .8-1 mm long, sharply and slightly 

 wing-angled; testa brown lustrous, reticulate. 



Plants of coastal plain, especially in pineland and coast prairie, 

 smaller-leaved and with stem nearly bare, while upland plants are 

 rather leafy. Also upland plants, especially in eastern Oklahoma, 

 are relatively more pubescent. 



Sandy soil, usually open woodland or prairie, through the Coastal 

 Plain south of the Arkansas River in Arkansas and west to the 

 Guadalupe River in Texas, in long-leaf pineland, short-leaf pine- 

 land, coastal prairie and post-oak woods; inland in sandy or rocky 

 woods or prairies to the Burnet metamorphic country of central 

 Texas, and northwestward (west of the higher Ouachita Hills) 

 to central Oklahoma. Flowering from early April to early June, 

 depending upon latitude. 



Arkansas. Jefferson: Jefferson Springs, Pennell 10658 (A, C, 

 H, M, U, Y). 



Oklahoma. Atoka: Limestone Gap, Butler 106 (M). Caddo: 

 Hinton, Stevens 943 (M, U). Creek: Sapulpa, Bush 881 (M, Y). 

 Lincoln: Fonts, Neaves (U). Logan: Guthrie, Carleton 147 (U). 

 McCurtain : Idabel, Houghton 3629 (M, Y) . Muskogee : Muskogee, 

 Oyster (U). Oklahoma: Bethany, Pennell 10576 (H, K, O, P, Y). 

 Payne: Stillwater, Waugh 253 (U). Pittsburg: McAlester, Pennell 

 10586 (A, C, M, Y). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Louisiana. Acadia: Crowley, Cocks (L). Caddo: Shreveport, 

 Cocks 3612 (L, Y). Calcasieu: DeQuincy, Pennell 10228 (L, T, 

 U, Y); Lake Charles, Pennell 10220 (Y). Jeff Davis: Jennings, 

 Pennell 10206 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, S, U, Y). Natchitoches: 

 Natchitoches, E. J. Palmer 7305 (M). Rapides: Alexandria, 

 Hale (U). 



Texas. Austin: Bellville, Pennell 10301 (T, Y). Brazoria: 

 Alvin, Young 257 (T). Burnet: Fairland, Pennell 10478 (Y). 

 Dallas : Dallas, Reverchon 694 (M) . Fayette : Colony, Crawford 

 (M). Guadalupe: Kingsbury, E. J. Palmer 11643 (M). Hardin: 

 Fletcher, E. J. Palmer 9549 (M). Harris: Harrisburg, Pennell 

 10250 (Y); Houston. Hays: San Marcos, -Stanfield (Y). Hood: 

 Granbury, Eggert (M). Jackson: Ganado, E. J. Palmer 9241 (M). 

 Liberty: Dolen, Young (T). Milam: Milano, E. J. Palmer 11775 

 (M). Orange: Orange, Bray 56 (U). Polk: Livingston, E. J. 

 Palmer 5212 (M). San Augustine: San Augustine, Crocket (U). 

 Smith: Troup, Young (T). Tarrant: Handley, Ruth 462 (U). 

 Travis: Austin, Pennell 10443 (Y). Victoria: Mission Valley, 

 Schott (Y). Walker: Huntsville, Young (T). 



17. Penstemon ambiguus Torr. 



Penstemon ambiguus Torr., in Ann. Lye. N. Y. 2:228. 1828. "Hab. Near the 

 Rocky Mountains [E. P. James in 1820]." Type collected by Edwin 

 James either in eastern Colorado, northeastern New Mexico or north- 

 western Texas, seen in Herb, of Columbia University at the New York 

 Botanical Garden. 

 Leiostemon purpureus Raf., Atl. Jour. 1 : 145. 1832. Based upon Penstemon 

 ambiguus Torr. 



Sandy or rocky prairies, mostly near streams; plains north of 

 Canadian River in extreme northwestern Texas; in the Wichita 

 Mountains, southwestern Oklahoma; and in the western Callahan 

 Divide, west-central Texas; doubtless elsewhere in upland Texas; 

 Upper Sonoran Zone (at altitudes above 2,400 feet). High plains, 

 westward to southwestern Utah and Chihuahua. Flowering from 

 May to August. 



Oklahoma. Comanche: Wichita Mts., Marcy .(Y). 



Texas. Dallam; Texline, Howell 138 (U). Hartley:. Channing, 

 E. J. Palmer 14157 (M). Howard: Big Springs, Tracy 7995 (M, T, 

 Y). Martin: Stanton, Eggert (M). Ward: Monahans, Clawson 

 13909 (U). 




498 PROCEEDINGS OD THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



18. Penstemon baccharifolius Hook. 



Penstemon baccharifolius Hook., in Bot. Mag. 78: pi. 4627. 1852. "Rear- 

 ed from Texian seeds gathered by Dr. Wright." Specimen collected by 

 C. Wright in 1851-52, but with exact data lost, seen in Herbarium of Col- 

 umbia University. This must be either his 439 or 1479, both credited 

 by A. Gray in Torr., Bot. Mex. Bound. 114. 1859, as collected on "rocky 

 bluffs at the Big Bend of the San Pedro River, Texas." Evidently the 

 type station. 



Limestone ledges, bluffs and canyons, in Edwards and Uvalde 

 Counties, Texas; and Rio Grande portion of Lower Sonoran Zone 

 (at altitudes of 1,000 to 1,500 feet). Ranges westward through 

 Trans-Pecos Texas. Flowering from April to June. 



Texas. Edwards: Barksdale, E. J. Palmer 11009 (M), 12337 

 (M). Uvalde: Montell, E. J. Palmer 12323 (M). Valverde: 

 Viaduct, Pilsbry (A). 



Penstemon atropurpureus Raf., Atl. Jour. 1 : 176. 1833 [not P. 

 atropurpureus (Sweet) G. Don 1830], said to be from Texas or 

 "Arkanzas, " to be represented by a specimen or specimens in 

 Rafinesque's herbarium and to have been seen living by him, is 

 described as with leaves "ang. lane, amplexic. serrul. glabr. 

 acutissim." and flowers "small, dark purple." Probably two 

 species are confused, but I can identify neither as Texan. 



16. SCROPHULARIA Linne. , 



Scrophularia L., Sp. PI. 619. 1753. 



Type species, S. nodosa L., of Europe. 



Sterile filament greenish-yellow, 1.8 mm. wide. Corolla 8-12 mm. 

 long. Calyx-lobes acute or acutish. Capsule pyramidal-acum- 

 inate, 5-10 mm. long. Seeds .8-1 mm. long. Inflorescence 

 narrowly elongated, 4-8 cm. wide, its branches relatively stout. 

 Leaf-blades cuneate to truncate at base, coarsely serrate to 

 incised. Petioles stouter, evidently wing-margined. 



1. S. occidentalis. 



Sterile filament purple -brown, 1 mm. wide. Corolla 6-8 mm. long. 

 Calyx-lobes rounded-obtuse. Capsule ovoid, acute, 4-7 mm. long. 

 Seeds .5-.8 mm. long. Inflorescence pyramidal, 5-18 cm. wide, 

 its branches slender. Leaf-blades narrowed to cordate at base, 

 more finely crenate-serrate. Petioles slender, scarcely margined. 



2. S. marilandica. 



1. Scrophularia occidentalis (Rydb.) Bicknell. 



Scrophularia nodosa occidentalis Rydb., in Contrib. JJ. S. Nat. Herb. 3: 517. 

 1896. "Rapid City [South Dakota], altitude 1,000 m., July 25, [1892. 

 P. A. Rydberg] (No. 914)." Isotype seen in Herb. New York Botanical 

 Garden. 

 Scrophularia occidentalis (Rydb.,) Bickn., in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 23: 315. 

 1896. 



Corolla externally greenish-brown and shining, within green or 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



distally brownish. Flowering in May or June. 



Thickets and along streams, widely distributed through the 

 Rocky Mountain plateau, eastward passing into S. leporella Bickn. 

 In our area seen only as collected by Edward Palmer 218 at some' 

 point in Oklahoma, probably "on the False Washita, between 

 Fort Cobb and Fort Arbuckle" in 1868. 



Oklahoma. : , E. Palmer 218 (Y). 



2. Scrophularia marilandica L. 



Scrophularia marilandica L., Sp. PI. 619. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." 

 Based upon a plant grown in the Upsala Garden, which from the descrip- 

 tion in the Hortus Upsalensis 177. 1748, would appear to have been the 

 species here considered. 



(?) Scrophularia hastata Raf., Fl. Ludov. 44. 1817. Based upon a fuller 

 description in Robin, Voy. Louisiane 3: 395. 1807. Description of 

 leaves 'soft to touch' appears to describe forma neglecta (below), but the 

 leaves in this species can scarcely be called hastate. The carefully 

 described flower however would appear to be of this genus, although no 

 mention is made of the rudimentary fifth stamen, nor is the corolla ever 

 pubescent within (veloutee). 



Scrophularia neglecta Rvdb.; Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1058, 1337. 1903. 

 "Type, Riley Co., Kans., Norton, no. 779 in Herb. N. Y. B. G." Type 

 seen in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. This plant differs from what 

 is considered true S. marilandica only in the presence of pubescence on 

 the lower surface of the leaves, a condition found in the northern and 

 predominating in the western part of the range of the species. Eastward 

 this sporadic and fluctuating state can be only considered as a forma, 

 neglecta (Rydb.) Pennell, comb, nov; the two should be studied. 



Corolla externally greenish-brown, duller, within purple-brown 

 distally. Flowering in September and October. 



Open woodland, in central and northwestern Arkansas; and in 

 southern Louisiana; certainly more generally distributed in our area. 

 In our area only forma neglecta has been seen. A wide-spread 

 eastern species, ranging from Massachusetts to Ontario and Neb- 

 braska, south to Georgia and Louisiana. 



Arkansas. Benton: , Plank (Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, 



Hasse (Y). 



Louisiana. Iberia: Avery Id., Cocks (L, Y). 



17. COLLINSIA Nuttall. 

 Collinsia Nutt., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1: 190. 1817. • 

 Type species, C. verna Nutt., of Ohio. 



1. Collinsia violacea Nutt. 



Collinsia violacea Nutt., in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 179. 1837. "Hab. 

 On the hills and upland woods of the Arkansas and Red rivers; abundant. 

 [T. Nuttall.] Type, labeled "Ark[ansas], Nuttall," seen in Herb. 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; isotype in Herb, of Columbia 

 University at the New York Botanical Garden. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Sandy soil, hills of western Arkansas, and eastern Oklahoma 

 and southward into short-leaf pineland of eastern Texas to Nac- 

 ogdoches and Limestone counties, Texas. Also in extreme south- 

 western Missouri and southeastern Kansas. Flowering from March 

 to early May* and soon ripening fruit. 



Arkansas. Benton : , Plank ( Y) . Sebastian : Hartford, Pils- 



bry (A). Washington: Fayetteville, Williamson (A). 



Oklahoma. Atoka: Limestone Gap, Pilsbry (A). Craig: Vin- 

 ita, Carleton 33 (U). Creek: Sapulpa, Bush 918 (Y). 



Texas. Kaufman: Elmo, Reverchon 3935 (U). Limestone: 



, Joor 49 (U) . Nacogdoches : ' ' Nagadoches, ' ' Leavenworth (A) . 



Readily distinguished from C. verna Nutt., of the Ohio Valley, 

 by the following contrast: 



Corolla blue, the nearly white posterior lobes little shorter than 

 the shallo wly notched antero -laterals. Seeds 3 mm. long. Leaves 

 lanceolate-ovate, mostly obviously dilated proximally. Stem 

 and pedicels with lines of pubescence. C. verna. 



Corolla violet, the pale posterior lobes about two thirds the length 

 of the deeply notched anterolaterals. Seeds 1 mm. long. Leaves 

 oblong-lanceolate, not dilated at base. Stem and pedicels more 

 densely finely pubescent over entire surface. C. violacea. 



18. MAURANDYA Ortega. 

 Maurandya Ortega, Nov. PI. Descr. Decad. 21. 1797. 

 Type species, M. semperflorens Ortega, 8 of Mexico. 



1. Maurandya antirrhiniflora Humb. & Bonpl. 



Maurandya antirrhiniflora H. & B. ; Willd., Hort. Berol. pi. 83. 1807. " Hab- 

 itat in Mexico." Description distinctive. 

 Antirrhinum maurandioides A. Gray, in Proc. Am. Acad. 7: 376. 1868. 

 Based upon Maurandya antirrhiniflora G. & B. 



Certainly closely akin to M. scandens (Cav.) Pers. [=M. sem- 

 perflorens Ort.], being nearly alike in habit, leaves, pedicels, sepals, 

 capsules and seeds, differing only in corolla. In M. scandens this is 

 two-ridged within on anterior side, apparently in the manner of 

 Mimulus, while the smaller corolla of M. antirrhiniflora has these 

 ridges developed distally into a palate. 



Corolla blue, the palate conspicuously raised, light-yellow. 

 Flowering from April to September and soon ripening fruit. 



Stony calcareous soil, river-bluffs and hills, lower Edwards Plateau 

 and through arid southern Texas, from Travis and Gillespie to 



8 Practically a re-description, with renaming, of listeria scandens Cav., Icon. 

 15. 1793, antedated by listeria Medik., 1790. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Nueces and Webb counties; lower Sonoran zone. Ranges from 

 southern Texas and Arizona to southern Mexico. 



Texas. Bexar: Comanche Spring; San Antonio, Pennell 5472 

 (P, Y). Gillespie: Threadgill, Jermy 487 (U). Hays: San Marcos, 

 Pennell 10428 (A, Y). Nueces: Corpus Christi, Heller 1790 

 (A, U, Y). Travis: Austin, Pennell 10451 (Y); Barton Springs. 

 Webb: Laredo, Letterman 35 (Y). 



19. UN ARIA Miller. 

 Linaria Mill., Gard. Diet. ed. IV. 1754. 

 Type species, Antirrhinum linaria L., of Europe. 

 Corolla, excluding spur, 4-12 mm. long, blue; posterior lip erect; 

 anterior lip broadly spreading, but not forming a definite 

 raised palate; spur slender. Capsule 2-3.5 mm. long, equal- 

 ing to slightly exceeding the sepals. Seeds .3-.4 mm. long, 

 cylindric, prismatic-angled, not winged. Stem less leafy, the 

 younger stems spreading-prostrate from base. 



(Leptoplectron.) 

 Surfaces of seeds smooth to slightly tuberculate, the angles thin. 

 Corolla less than 48 mm. long, excluding the spur which is 2-6 

 mm. long. 1. L. canadensis. 



Surfaces and rounded angles of seed densely tuberculate. Cor- 

 olla over 10 mm. long, excluding the spur which is 5-9 mm. long. 



la. L. canadensis texana. 

 Corolla, excluding spur, 15-18 mm. long, yellow; posterior lip arched 

 over anterior; anterior lip forming a conspicuous protruding 

 orange palate, spur stout. Capsule 10 mm. long, much exceed- 

 ing the sepals. Seeds 1-7 mm. long, flattened and circularly 

 broadly- winged. Stem densely leafy, always erect. 



2. L. linaria. 



1. Linaria canadensis (L.) Dum.-Cours. 



Antirrhinum canadenseL., Sp. PI. 618. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Can- 

 ada." Type probably from southern New Jersey, and certainly the species 

 now considered. For discussion see Torreya 19: 151. 1919. 

 Linaria canadensis Dum.-Cours., Bot. Cult. 2: 96. 1802. "Lieu, Le Can- 

 ada, la Virginie." Doubtless based upon Antirrhinum canadense L. 



Corolla purplish-blue, the palate paler. Flowering from March 

 to May, and soon ripening fruit. 



Open sandy soil, usually a weed, eastward, chiefly in the Coastal 

 Plain; less frequent than the following, with which it intergrades. 

 Ranges through the Atlantic Coastal Plain, from Massachusetts 

 to Florida and Texas; inland probably introduced. 



Arkansas. Pope: Russellville, Pennell 10636 (Y). 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (A, U, Y). 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



• Texas. Angelina: , Reverchon 3931 (Y). Dewitt: Cuero, 



Howell 318 (Y). Harris: Houston, Hall 406 (U). Kaufman: 

 Terrell, Tyler (U). San Augustine: San Augustine, Crocket (U). 

 Travis: Austin, York (T). Victoria: Victoria, Lewton 62 (U). 



la. Linaria canadensis texana (Scheele) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Linaria texana Scheele, in Linnaea 21: 4761. 1848. "Zwischen Houston 

 and Austin [Texas] haufig: "Romer." Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Here distinguished primarily by roughness of seeds, which how- 

 ever varies from a few roughenings on the side to densely tuber- 

 culate. The wealth of Texan material at my disposal shows that 

 each character of the contrasts previously outlined (in Contrib. 

 U. S. Nat. Herb. 20: 323. 1920, and Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 71: 258. 1920) between this and Linaria canadensis breaks down 

 in numerous instances through the area where the two overlap. 

 Consequently it seems more rational to consider texana a variety, 

 its range and relation to the species roughly paralleling that of 

 Veronica peregrina xalapensis (H. B. K.) Pennell. For an ex- 

 cellent illustration of Linaria canadensis texana see the Botanical 

 Magazine 63: pi. 3473. 1836. 



Open sand or sandy loam, frequently or usually a weed, common 

 through the Coastal Plain, chiefly westward; occasional and prob- 

 ably introduced inland. Ranges widely through western North 

 America, and into South America. 



Arkansas. Benton: , Plank (Y). Columbia: Taylor, Hunt 



10 (Y). Nevada: Prescott, Bush 555 (U). 



Oklahoma. Kingfisher: Huntsville; Kingfisher, Stevens 189 

 (U). Oklahoma: Bethany, Pennell 10574 (H, O, U, Y). Payne: 

 Stillwater, Learn (Y). Wagoner: Wagoner, Pennell 10614 (M, Y). 

 Washita: Bessie, Stevens 961 (U). Woods: Alva, Stevens 3042 

 (U). 



Louisiana. Acadia: Crowley, Pennell 10204 (Y). Catahoula: 

 Sicily Id., Peck (A). Rapides: Alexandria, Ball 416 (U, Y). 

 Terrebonne: E. C. Wurzlow (Y). 



Texas. Austin: San Felipe, Pennell 10293 (K, T, Y); Wallis, 

 Pennell 10270 (A, Y). Bastrop: Smith ville, Pilsbry (A). Bexar: 

 San Antonio: Larrabee (U). Duval: San Diego, Croft (U, Y). 

 Fayette: Colony, Crawford (U). Gillespie: Dry Branch, Jermy 

 151 (U). Harris: Houston, Bush 51 (U). Henderson: Athens, 

 Young (T). Kaufman: Terrell, Tyler (U). Nueces: Corpus 

 Christi, Heller (Y). Robertson: Calvert, Merrill (Y). Tarrant: 






1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Handley, Ruth 441 (Y). Travis: Austin, Bray 106 (Y). Victoria: 

 Victoria, Williamson (A). 



2. Linaria linaria (L.) Karst. 

 Linaria vulgaris Mill. 



Loam or sandy fields, seen only from northern Arkansas. Nat- 

 uralized from Eurasia. 



20. VERONICASTRUM Heister. 

 Veronicastrum Heist.; Fabr., Enum. Meth. PI. Hort. Helmstad. 111. 1759. 

 Type species, Veronica virginica L. 



1. Veronicastrum virginicum (L.) Far well. 



Veronica virginica L., Sp. PI. 9. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." Grown in 

 the Clifford Garden. Certainly the species here considered. 



Leptandra villosa Raf., Med. Fl. 2: 21. 1830. "Mr. Schweinitz has found 

 it in North Carolina." Name to be used for the forma Veronicastrum 

 virginicum f. villosum (Raf.) Pennell, [in Rhodora 23: 6. 1921] preval- 

 ent in the South and West, which has its leaves downy pubescent beneath. 



Veronicastrum virginicum (L.) Farwell, Drugg. Circ. 61: 231. 1917. 



Corolla white or pinkish; anthers brown. Flowering in August. 



Sandy or loam soil, meadows or thickets, in northern Louisiana 

 and northeastern Texas; doubtless also in Arkansas. Ranges 

 from Connecticut to Minnesota and Kansas, south to Mississippi 

 and Texas. 



Louisiana. Clairborne: , (L). Natchitoches: Natchi- 

 toches, Cocks (L). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4198 (A, Y). 



21. VERONICA LinnC. 

 Veronica L., Sp. PI. 9. 1753. 

 Type species, Veronica officinalis L., of Europe. 

 Main stem terminating in an inflorescence, the flowers remote and 

 axillary. Leaves, except the lowermost, alternate, their blades 

 oblanceolate to ovate. Annuals. 

 Pedicels shorter than the lanceolate to linear sepals. Capsule 

 strongly flattened. Seeds many, less than 1 mm. long, 

 3mooth or nearly so. Plants erect. 

 Leaf-blades, excepting the lowermost, sessile, those of the 

 lower stem-leaves oblanceolate, nearly entire to dentate. 

 Corolla whitish throughout. Capsule greenish-brown, 

 glabrous or minutely pubescent, less deeply notched, 

 the minute style hidden between the capsule-lobes. 

 Plant glabrous. 1. V. peregrina. 



Plant pubescent with short gland -tipped hairs, usually pres- 

 ent even on the capsule. la. V. peregrina xalapensis. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Leaf-blades petioled or the upper nearly sessile, those of the 

 lower stem-leaves ovate, crenate -serrate. Corolla deep vio- 

 let-blue. Capsule yellowish-brown, pubescent with slightly 

 gland-tipped hairs, notched nearly or about one third length, 

 the longer style reaching about to the capsule-lobes. Plant 

 pubescent with white glandless or obscurely gland -tipped 

 hairs. 2. V. arvensis. 



Pedicels longer than the ovate sepals. Capsule relatively turgid. 

 Seeds few, 1.3-1.5 mm. long, roughened. Leaf -blades ovate, 

 dentate. Corolla violet-blue. 



Petals not exceeding the ovate sepals. Capsule 4 mm. wide, 

 its lobes rounded in profile, the most distal point of each 

 about midway between the style and the lateral margin. 

 Style shorter than the capsule. 3. V. polita. 



Petals much exceeding the narrowly ovate sepals. Capsule 



5-6 mm. wide, its lobes acutish in profile, the most distal 



point of each near the lateral margin. Style as long as the 



capsule. 4. V. persica. 



Main stem not terminating in an inflorescence, the flowers in axil- 



ary racemes. Leaves opposite throughout, their blades linear. 



Perennial. 5. V. scutellata. 



1. Veronica peregrina L. 



Veronica peregrina L., Sp. PI. 14. 1753. "Habitat inEuropaehortis, arvis- 

 que." Description distinctive of this American plant, which had become 

 naturalized in Europe. 



Corolla uniformly dull-white. Flowering from March to May, 

 and soon ripening fruit. 



Moist soil, river-banks, gardens and cultivated fields, common 

 eastward but passing into and over most of our range represented 

 by the following variety. Wide-spread through eastern North 

 America. 



Arkansas. Jefferson: Jefferson Springs, Pennell 10669a (Y). 

 Pope: Russellville, Pennell 10635 (U, Y). 



Louisiana. Acadia: Crowley, Pennell 10197 (L, Y). Jefferson: 

 Gretna, Ball 322 (Y). Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (L). 



la. Veronica peregrina xalapensis (H. B. K.) Pennell. 



Veronica xalapensis H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et Sp. 2: 389. 1818. "Crescit in 

 Regno Mexicano prope Xalapa (alt. 630 hex.), in nemoribus Liquidambaris 

 Styracifluae [Humboldt & Bonpland]". 

 Veronica peregrina xalapensis (H. B. K.) Pennell, inTorreya 19: 167. 1919. 



Varies in degree and length of pubescence, so evidently of only 

 varietal status. 



Sandy to clayey soil, ditches, stream-banks and fields, common 

 through most of central and western Arkansas and Texas, eastward 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



passing into V. peregrina L. Wide-spread through western North 

 and South America. 



Arkansas. Franklin: Ozark, Pennell 10618 (Y). 



Oklahoma. Oklahoma, Bethany, Pennell 10580 (O, Y). 



Texas. Austin: Wallis, Pennell 10281 (U, Y). Bexar: , 



Jermy (Y). Comal: New Braunfels, Lindheimer 1060 (T, Y). 

 Harris: Houston, Pennell 10248 (Y), 10255 (T, Y). Hays: San 

 Marcos, Stanfield (Y). Kerr: Kerrville, Pennell 10391 (A, H, Y). 

 Tarrant: Fort Worth, Ruth 100 (Y). Travis: Austin, Pennell 

 10446 (Y). 



2. Veronica arvensis L. 



Corolla with all lobes deep sky-blue, whitish at base, veined with 

 deeper sky-blue. 



Fields and cultivated soil, especially where moist, seen from 

 Arkansas and Oklahoma. Naturalized from Eurasia. 



3. Veronica polita Fries. 



Roadsides and gardens, seen from Louisiana and Texas. Nat- 

 uralized from Eurasia. 



4. Veronica persica Poir. 



Corolla with posterior lobes sky-blue, anterior pale-blue, all 

 whitish at base, and veined with deeper blue lines. 



Fields and roadsides, seen from Texas. Naturalized from 

 Eurasia* 



5. Veronica scutellata L. 



Waste ground, at Pineville, Rapides Parish, Louisiana, collected 

 by R. S. Cocks. Surely adventive from the northern United States 

 or Eurasia. 



22. DASISTOMA Raflnesque. 

 Dasistoma Raf., Journ. de Phys. 88: 89. 1819. 

 Type species, D. aurea Raf., of Kentucky. 



1. Dasistoma macrophylla (Nutt.) Raf. 



Seymeria macrophylla Nutt., Gen. N. Am. PI. 2:49. 1818. "Hab. In shady 

 alluvial soils of the banks of the Little Miami, near the town of Lebanon," 

 Ohio, T. Nuttall. Specimen in Kew Herbarium labeled "Ohio, Nuttall 

 misit Mart. 1824," may stand as the type; this seen. 



Dasistoma macrophylla (Nutt.) Raf., New Fl. Am. 2: 67. 1837. 



Brachygyne macrophylla (Nutt.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1073, 1338. 1903. 

 Type of genus, Brachygyne Small. 



Corolla yellow, externally tinged or marked with purple-red. 



Flowering in July and August and soon ripening fruit. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Sandy to clay soil, woodland, usually along streams, hills of 

 northwestern Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma to Dallas County, 

 Texas. Ranges from Ohio to eastern Nebraska, south to northern 

 Alabama and northeastern Texas. 



Arkansas. Benton: Sulphur Springs, Pennell 5362 (P). 

 Washington: Fayetteville, Harvey 35 p. p. (A). 



Oklahoma. Cleveland: Moore, McReynolds (0). Craig: Blue 

 Jacket, Stevens 2212 (L) . Creek : Sapulpa, Bush 446 (M) . Payne : 

 Stillwater, Waugh 33 (M, U). Rogers: Verdigris, Bush 415 (M). 



Texas. Dallas: Dallas; Irving, Pennell 5398 (P, Y). 



23. AFZELIA J. F. Gmelin. 

 Afzelia J. F. Gmel., Syst. 927. 1791. 

 Type species, Anonymos cassioides Walt. 



Leaf-segments and calyx-lobes lanceolate or broader. Corolla 

 externally pubescent, its lobes ovate. Capsule ovate or 

 ovate-acuminate, glandular-tomentose. Seeds 1-1-5 mm. long, 

 with reticulations raised and wing-like. Stem with spreading 

 or reflexed hairs. 

 Filaments 1.5-2.5 mm. long, dilated and pubescent at least one 

 half their length, the distal portion glabrous. Anther -cells, 

 opening one half their length. Capsule ovate-acuminate 

 with gland-tipped hairs. Reticulations of seed regular, raised 

 less than the diameter of the seed. Stem glandular-pubes- 

 cent with spreading hairs. 

 Capsule 9-12 mm. long. Seeds 1-1.2 mm. long. Pedicels 

 7-12 mm. long. Leaf-blades slightly bipinnatifid. 



1. A. havardii. 

 Capsule 8-9 mm. long. Seeds 1.4-1.5 mm. long. Pedicels 



3-5 (-9) mm. long. Leaf -blades strongly bipinnatifid. 



2. A. texana. 

 Filaments 3 mm. long, dilated and pubescent about one fourth 



their length, the distal portion lanose with spreading hairs. 

 Anther-cells opening one fourth or one fifth length. Capsule 

 5-7 mm. long, ovate, with mostly dark-jointed but not gland- 

 tipped hairs. Reticulations of seed irregularly produced into 

 three or four wings, which equal or exceed the diameter of the 

 seed. Stem pubescent with fine reflexed or also longer spread- 

 ' ing glandless hairs. 3. A. pectinata. 



Leaf-segments and calyx-lobes filiform-linear. Corolla externally 

 glabrous, its lobes lanceolate. Capsule 4-4.5 mm. long, urceo- 

 late-acuminate, glabrous. Seeds .5-.7 mm. long, with a scarcely 

 reticular testa, furrowed. Stem sparingly pubescent with 

 ascending incurved hairs. 4. A. cassioides. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



1. Afzelia havardii Pennell, sp. no v. 



Annual. Stem about 4 dm. tall, much branched, pubescent 

 with retrorse-spreading to -incurved hairs, and with longer similar 

 gland-tipped hairs. Leaf-blades lanceolate to ovate-lanceolate, 

 slightly bipinnatifid, segments lanceolate, pinnae falcately spread- 

 ing; glandular-hirsute on both surfaces; those of the stem 1.5-1.7 

 cm. long,. 6-8 mm. wide, with 5-7 pairs of lateral lobes. Pedicels 

 slender, in flower 6-10 mm. long, in fruit 7-12 mm. long. Calyx 

 glandular-hirsute, its lobes 3-4 mm. long, lanceolate, acute, dentate. 

 Corolla 7.5-8 mm. long; its lobes 5 mm. long, ovate; rounded, 

 spreading, the two posterior united \ - | their length; externally 

 glandular-tomentose, within pubescent in a ring about the bases 

 of the filaments, but glabrous below posterior sinus, the lobes 

 irregularly ciliate. Filaments 2.5 mm. long, stout, posterior in- 

 ■ curved, dilated and pubescent two-thirds length; anterior straight, 

 less dilated, pubescent one-half length; connectives glabrous, 

 anther-sacs 3 mm. long, linear-oblong, opening one-half length. 

 Capsule 9-12 mm. long, narrowly ovate-acuminate, glandular-tom- 

 entose. Seeds 1-1.2 mm. long, pale-brown, the raised reticulations 

 thin and somewhat wing-like; intrareticular lines very fine, con- 

 tinuous, forming a delicate parallel series. 



Type, Eagle Pass, Texas, collected in flower and fruit in 1882, 

 Dr. V. Havard; in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia . 



Limestone hills (?), near the Rio Grande, Texas; arid Lower 

 Sonoran zone. 



Texas. Maverick: Eagle Pass, Havard (A, H). Also collect- 

 ed by Wright in 1848, but no station given. 



2. Afzelia texana (A. Gray) Small. 



Seymeria bipinnatisecta texana A Gray, in Torrey, Bot. Mex. Bound. 117. 

 1859. "Upper Guadalupe river, etc.,; Lindheimer ..." Several 

 collections of Lindheimer seen, but none labeled "Upper Guadalupe river." 

 Lindheimer 451 or 670 labeled "Pedernales," in Gray Herbarium, may 

 stand as the type and has been seen there. 



Afzelia texana (A. Gray) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1072, 1338. 1903. 



Rocky limestone soil, Edwards Plateau of central Texas. Flower- 

 ing in July and August, and soon ripening fruit. 



Texas. Bexar: Comanche Spring, Lindheimer 1058 (A, C, H, 

 K, M, P, XJ, Y). Gillespie: Fredericksburg; Pedernales; Thread- 

 gill, Jermy 452 (M, U). Hays: San Marcos, Stanfield (Y). Kerr: 

 Kerrville, Pennell 10395 (T, Y). 



3. Afzelia pectinata (Pursh) Kuntze. 



Seymeria pectinata Pursh, Fl. Am. Sept. 2: 737. 1814. "In South Carolina. 

 Catesby. v. s. in Herb. Sherard." Type not seen, but description dis- 

 tinctive. 



Afzelia pectinata (Pursh) Kuntze, Rev. Gen. 1: 457. 1891. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Corolla deep golden-yellow, more or less marked with purple- 

 red within throat and at the bases of the lobes. Flowering in 

 August and September, and soon ripening fruit. 



Dry sandy longleaf pineland, central Louisiana. Ranges from 

 South Carolina and Florida to Louisiana. 



Louisiana. Natchitoches: Natchitoches, Cocks (L). 



4. Afzelia cassloides (Walt.) J. F. Gmel. 



Anonymos cassioides Walt., Fl. Carol. 171. 1788. Presumably from lower 



South Carolina. Description sufficiently distinctive. 

 Afzelia cassioides (Walt.) J. F. Gmel., Syst. 927. 1791. 

 Gerardia afzelia Michx., Fl. Bor. Am. 2: 20. 1803. New name for Afzelia 



cassioides (Walt.) Gmel. 

 Seymeria tenuifolia Pursh, Fl. Am. Sept. 737. 1814. New name for Gerardia 



cassioides (Walt.) Pers. < 



Corolla pale-yellow, more or less marked with purple-red within 

 throat and at the bases of the lobes. Flowering in September and 

 October, and soon ripening fruit. 



Sandy longleaf pineland, central Louisiana. Ranges from North 

 Carolina and Florida to Louisiana. 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, Cocks (L). 



24. AUREOLARIA Rafinesque. 

 Aureolaria Raf., New Fl. Am. 2: 58. 1837. 

 Type species, Aureolaria villosa Raf. 

 Annual. Stem, leaves and calyx glandular-hirsute. Leaf-blades 

 bipinnatifid. pectinately toothed. Calyx-tube glandular- 

 hirsute, the lobes pectinately toothed. Corolla 30-40 mm. 

 long, externally glandular-pubescent, with pubescint below 

 posterior sinus and over bases of posterior lobes, more or less 

 marked or tinged with purple-red. Capsule glandular-pubes- 

 cent. Seeds .8-1 mm. long, not winged. (Panctenis Raf.) 



1. A. pectinata. 

 Perennials. Not glandular. Leaf blades entire to somewhat 

 bipinnatifid, not pectinately cut. Calyx-tube not glandular, 

 the lobes entire to dentate. Corolla externally glabrois, 

 within glabrous or diffused -pubescent, uniformly yellow. 

 Capsule not glandular. Seeds 1.5-2.7 mm. long, strongly 

 winged. (Aureolaria. sensu strictu.) 

 Capsule densely rusty-pubescent. Pedicels 1.5-3 mm. long. 



Stem puberulent to pubescent. 2. A. virginica. 



Capsule glabrous. Pedicels 3-15 mm. long. 



Plants densely cinereous-puberulent. Wings but one sixth 

 to one fifth the diameter of the seeds. Corolla 40-50 

 mm. long. 

 Calyx-lobes broadly lanceolate, evidently dentate. Bracts 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



coarsely toothed. Petioles apparently mostly only 

 5-6 mm. long. 3. A. grandiflora. 



Calyx-lobes linear to lanceolate, entire to slightly dentate. 

 Bracts entire to serrate. Petioles mostly 10-15 mm. 

 long. 



Upper leaf-blades gradually smaller than the lower, 

 relatively large. Pedicels stout. More densely cine- 

 reous. 3a. A. grandiflora cinerea. 



Upper leaf-blades rather abruptly smaller than the lower, 

 relatively small. Pedicels slender. Less densely cin- 

 ereous. 3b. A. grandiflora serrata. 

 Plants glabrous to minutely puberulent. Wings one fourth 



to two fifths the diameter of the seed. Calyx-lobes entire. 

 Stem finely puberulent, not glaucous. Pedicels and calyx 



externally puberulent. Corolla 40-50 mm. long. 



4. A. dispersa. 



Stem glabrous, glaucous. Pedicels and calyx externally 

 glabrous. 

 Leaf-blades, at least the lower, somewhat pinnately cut, 

 the segments lanceolate or broader. Corolla 40-60 mm. 

 long, somewhat pubescent within above bases of fila- 

 ments. Awn of anther 1-1.5 mm. long. Capsule 15-29 

 mm. long. Plant relatively stout. 



5. A. flava macrantha. 

 Leaf-blades all very deeply pinnately cut, the segments 



linear-lanceolate or nearly linear. Corolla 40-45 mm. 

 long, glabrous within above bases of filaments. Awn of 

 anther 1.5-2 mm. long. Capsule 12-15 mm. long. 

 Plant relatively slender. 6. A. calycosa. 



1. Aureolaria pectinate (Nutt.) Pen n ell. 



Gerardia pedicularia pectinata Nutt., Gen. N. Am. PI. 2: 46. 1818. "Hab. 

 In the sandy pine forests of Carolina and Georgia." Probable type, 

 collected by Nuttall and now in the British Museum, has been verified by 

 Dr. S. Moore as the plant here considered. 



Aureolaria pectinata (Nutt.) Pennell, in Bull. Torr. Bot Club. 40: 314. 1913. 



Corolla yellow, externally more or less tinged with reddish, within 

 not marked with purple-red. Flowering from July to October, 

 and soon ripening fruit. 



Dry sandy pine and oak lands, especially hilly, in the Coastal 

 Plain of Louisiana, and doubtless also in eastern Arkansas; on the 

 lower Ouachita Hills in Arkansas. Ranges through the Coastal 

 Plain from South Carolina to Florida and Louisiana. 



Arkansas. Garland: Hot Springs, Pennell 5680 (A, C, H, K, M, 

 P, U, Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, Engelmann 313 (M). 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Cocks (L). Rapides: Alexan- 

 dria; Pineville, Pennell 5638 (C, H, L, M, P, U, Y). 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



2. Aureolaria virginica (L.) Pennell. 



Rhinanthus virginicus L., Sp. PI. 603. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia." Type, 

 Clayton 488, is identified by Dr. S. F. Blake in Rhodora 20: 66, 1918, as 

 the species here considered. 



Aureolaria villosa Raf., New Fl. Am. 2: 59. 1837. No type locality stated, 

 nor type known to exist. Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Aureolaria virginica (L.) Pennell, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club. 40: 409. 1913. 



Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. Flowering in June 

 or July. 



Open sandy woodland, among oaks, in central Louisiana. Ran- 

 ges from New Hampshire to Michigan, south to Florida and Louisi- 

 ana. Unknown elsewhere west of the Mississippi River. 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (L). 



3. Aureolaria grandiflora (Benth.) Pennell. 



Gerardia grandiflora Benth., in Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 206. 1826. "Province 

 of Texas, Drummond." Type, Drummond 293, seen in Kew Herbarium. 



Dasystoma drummondii Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 520. 1846. "In Texas 

 (Drummond!) Gerardia grandiflora Benth! . . . (v. s.)" Type, iden- 

 tical with preceding, Drummond 293, seen in Kew Herbarium. 



Aureolaria grandiflora (Benth.) Pennell in Rhodosa 20: 135. 1918. 



Probably in sandy oak woods, Coastal Plain of southeastern 

 Texas. Including varieties, the species ranges northward to Wis- 

 consin. Flowering in June and July. 



Texas. Austin: San Felipe, Drummond 293 (H, K). Harris: 

 Houston, Hall 420 (H, K, M, U, Y). Waller: Hempstead, Hall 

 419 (H, M, U, Y) 



3a. Aureolaria grandiflora cinerea Pennell, var. nov. 



Stem 10-12 dm. tall, more densely cinereous-puberulent. Peti- 

 oles about 10-15 mm. long. Lower leaves lanceolate to ovate 

 lanceolate usually more deeply incised, though only at times in 

 broad basal portion of lowest leaves reaching nearly to the midrib, 

 (5-) 9-15 cm. long, with 2-6 pairs of lateral lobes, rarely nearly entire, 

 upper leaves smaller, though larger than in the species, and less cut; 

 bracts nearly entire, or more frequently serrate, or even laciniate 

 toward the base; leaves more cinerous. Pedicels stouter. Calyx- 

 lobes 8-12 mm. long, linear-lanceolate to lanceolate, entire or slightly 

 dentate. Capsule 13-17 mm. long. Otherwise as in the species. 



Type: Neck, Jasper Co., Missouri, collected in fruit, F. W. Pennell 

 5374; in Herb. University of Pennsylvania. 



Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. Flowering in July 

 and August, fruiting September and October. 



Dry oak-woods, red loam or on usually more or less sandy soil, 

 from the valley of the Missouri River in central Missouri to the 

 upper Trinity River in Texas. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



Arkansas. Washington: Fayetteville, Harvey 59 (M). 



Oklahoma. Cleveland: P. J. White 191 (M). Haskell: San 

 Bois Mts., Sheldon 325 (U). LeFlore: Page, Stevens 2709 (I). 



Texas. Dallas: Dallas, Reverchon 711 (M, U). Smith: Swan, 

 Reverchon 3228 (M). 



3b. Aureolaria grandiflora serrata (Torr.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Dasystoma drummondii serrata (Torr.) Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 521. 1846. 

 "In Louisiana ad Red River (Hale!) Gerardia serrata Torrey! .... 

 (V. in herb. Torrey)." Type in Kew Herbarium verified by N. E. Brown 

 as agreeing with my number 5675. Isotype seen in Herbarium Columbia 

 University. 

 Gerardia grandiflora integriuscula A. Gray, Syn. Fl. N. Am. 2. 1:291. 1878. 

 G. serrata, Torr., Benth. . . . W. Louisiana, Hale. " Type same as pre- 

 ceding. 



Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. Flowering in July 

 and August. 



Sandy oak-woods, short-leaf pine region of northwestern Louisi- 

 ana and northeastern Texas, probably also in the long-leaf pinehills 

 north of Alexandria, Louisiana. 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Pennell 5662 (A, C, H, I, L, 

 M, P, U, Y). Natchitoches: Chopin, E. J. Palmer 8847 (M). 

 Rapides Alexandria, Hale (L, Y). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Pennell 5675 (A, C, H, K, M, P, 

 S, T, U, Y). Rusk or Panola: between Tatum & Beckville. 

 Reverchon 3227 (H, M, U). 



4. Aureolaria dispersa (Small) Pennell. 



Dasystoma dispersa Small, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club. 28:452. 1901. "Louis- 

 iana, Feliciana, Carpenter; type in the Herb, of Columbia University." 

 Type seen. 



Aureolaria dispersa (Small) Pennell, in Bull Torr. Bot. Club. 40:411. 1913. 



Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. Flowering in August 

 and September. 



Sandy thickets and Oakland, in the long-leaf pine belt of southern 

 Louisiana. Ranges eastward to southern Alabama. 



Louisiana. Acadia: Crowley, Pennell 10188 (Y). Rapides: 

 Pineville, Pennell 5639 (C, H, L, M, P, U, Y). 



5. Aureolaria flava macrantha Pennell, var. nov. 



Leaves tardily glabrate or permanently pubescent above. Calyx- 

 lobes 5-14 mm. long. Corolla (35-) 40-60 mm. long. Capsule 15- 

 20 mm. long. Otherwise as in the species, Aureolaria flava (L.) 

 Far well. 



Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. Flowering from 

 July to September, fruiting August to October. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Oakwoods, frequently sandy or rocky, in the Ouachita Hills 

 of central Arkansas. Ranges from southern Ontario to Alabama, 

 Illinois and Arkansas, eastward passing into the species. 



Arkansas. Garland: Hot Springs, Pennell 5682 (C, H, K, M, 

 P, U, Y). Pulaski: Little Maumelle, Engelmann 407 (M). Sal- 

 ine , Harvey 35 (H). 



6. Aureolaria calycosa (Mack. & Bush) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Dasystoma calycosa Mack. & Bush, in Rep. Missouri Bot. Gard. 16: 105. 

 1905. "Monteer, Shannon Co., Mo. Bush 219, July 31, 1899, type." 

 Type seen. 



Corolla yellow, with no tinge of purple-red. Flowering in July 

 and August. 



Stony oak-land, common in the Ozark Mountains of southern 

 Missouri and northern Arkansas, also occurs in red loam region 

 of northwestern, and granitic region of central Arkansas, also in 

 sandy pineland of the Coastal Plain of eastern Arkansas. 



Arkansas. Baxter: Cotter, E. J. Palmer 8414 (M.) Franklin: 

 Ozark, Pennell 10620 ( Y) . Izard : Penters Bluff, Pennell 10676 (Y) . 

 Jefferson: Jefferson Springs, Pennell 10664 (Y). Pulaski: Little 

 Maumelle; Little Rock, Pennell 5679 (C, H, M, P, U, Y), 10645 



( Y) . Saline , Harvey 35 (H) . White : Bald Knob, Biltm. Herb. 



2827 (U). 



25. AGAUNIS Raflnesque. 

 Agalinis Raf., New Fl. Amer. 2: 61. 1837. 

 Type species, A. palustris Raf., of the Atlantic seaboard. 

 Capsule oblong to ovoid-oblong. Calyx-lobes 3-8 mm. long, 

 Corolla pubescent within in a narrow line below posterior 

 sinus. 

 Leaves lanceolate to lance-acuminate, entire or some trifid at 

 base, slightly scabrous above, 2-6 mm. wide. Pedicels 2-3 

 mm. long. Calyx-lobes as long as or longer than the tube. 

 Corolla 25-30 mm. long, its lobes widely spreading. Anther- 

 cells caudate or awned at distal apex, densely lanose-pubescent. 

 Stem glabrous, and branches spreading. I. Heterophyllae. 



1. A. heterophylla. 

 Leaves narrowly linear, entire, very scabrous above, .8-1.5 mm. 

 wide. Pedicels 5-16 mm. long. Calyx-lobes about one half 

 the length of the tube. Corolla 20-26 mm. long, its posterior 

 lobes ascending-spreading. Anther-cells obtuse to acutish 

 at distal apex, moderately lanose-pubescent. Stem scabrel- 

 lous, and branches ascending. II. Asperae. 



2. A. aspera. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



Capsule globose to globose-obovoid. Calyx-lobes less than the 

 length of the tube. 

 Corolla with lobes all spreading, pubescent within at base of 

 posterior lobes. 

 Seeds dark-brown. Plants tending to blacken in drying. 

 Calyx-tube not decidedly reticulate-venose. 



III. PURPUREAE. 



Inflorescence of elongated normal racemes; the pedicels less 

 than 12 mm. long. Corolla pubescent within over 

 nearly entire width of basal portions of posterior lobes. 

 Leaves and calyx-lobes obtuse to acutish. Anther-cells 

 obtuse to acutish at distal apex. Plant fleshy, bushy- 

 branched below and with elongated racemes above. 

 Pedicels 5-12 mm. long. 3. A. spici flora. 

 Leaves and calyx-lobes acute to acuminate. Anther-cells 

 mucronate to caudate at distal apex. Plants not 

 fleshy, more uniformly branched. Pedicels .5-5 (-8) 

 mm. long. 

 Stem smooth or minutely scabrellous. Axillary fascicles 

 not or scarcely developed, if present shorter than 

 the leaves. Seeds .6-1.5 mm. long. 

 Axillary fascicles slightly developed. Pedicels 3-8 

 mm. long. Corolla 20-38 mm. long. Seeds .9-1.5 

 mm. long; areas between reticulations mostly paler 

 and intrareticular lines discernible. 



4. A. purpurea. 



Axillary fascicles scarcely or not developed. Pedicels 

 2-3 mm. long. Corolla 20-25 mm. long. Seeds 

 .9-1 mm. long; areas between reticulations nearly 

 black and no intrareticular lines discernible. 



5. A. pinetorum. 



Stem more or less scabrous. Axillary fascicles abun- 

 dantly developed, mostly equaling the leaves. 

 Seeds .5-.8 mm. long. 6. A . fasciculata. 

 Inflorescence usually of shorter racemes (if elongated, pedicels 

 over 10 mm. long), usually some flowers, by slower or 

 arrested growth of stem-apex appearing nearly terminal ; 

 pedicels 5-40 mm. long. 

 Corolla 20-40 mm. long, pubescent within in narrow line 

 below sinus of posterior lobes. Seeds with intraretic- 

 ular areas broad, nearly hexagonal. Stigma 3-4 mm. 

 long. Chief cauline leaves 2-3.5 cm. long, those of 

 the branches not scale-like. 

 Stem scabrous. Axillary fascicles abundantly develop- 

 ed. Calyx-lobes minute, .1-.6 mm. long. Pedicels 

 25-40 mm. long. 7. A. pulchella. 



Stem glabrous or nearly so. Axillary fascicles scarcely 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



or not developed. Calyx-lobes longer, triangular- 

 lanceolate or -subulate. Pedicels 15-30 mm. long. 

 Corolla 25-30 mm. long, slightly upcurved, its lobes 

 strongly ciliate. Anther- cells obtuse to acutish at 

 distal apex. Calyx-lobes .7-1 mm. long. Leaves 

 filiform, .3-.8 mm. wide. 



8. A. caddoensis. 

 Corolla 20-25 mm. long, strongly upcurved, its lobes 

 slightly ciliate. Anther-cells acuminate-attenuate 

 at distal apex. Calyx-lobes 1-2 mm. long. Leaves 

 linear, 1-3 mm. wide. 9. A. strictifolia. 

 Corolla 15-22 mm. long, pubescent within over entire 

 width of basal portions of posterior lobes. Seeds with 

 intrareticular areas elongated, narrow. Stigma 2 mm. 

 long. Chief cauline leaves .5-1 cm. long, thos3 of the 

 branches scale-like. 10. A oligophylla. 



Seeds yellowish-brown. Plants not tending to blacken in dry- 

 ing. Calyx-tube evidently reticulate- venose. Racemes 

 little elongated, and some flowers appearing terminal. 



IV. Erectae. 

 Corolla 12-18 mm. long pink, with prominent red spots 

 within. Stigma 2-3 mm. long. Capsule globose to 

 globose-ovoid, brown, 4-5 mm. long. Seeds rounded and 

 turgid. Calyx-lobes .5-1.8 mm. long. Pedicels 8-30 mm. 

 long. Plant divaricately and relatively evenly branched. 



11. A. gattingeri. 

 Corolla 8-12 mm. long, pale- pink, with faint spots within. 

 Stigma 1 mm. long. Capsule globose-obovoid, light- 

 brown, 5-6 mm. long. Seeds angled, not turgid. Calyx- 

 lobes 1.5-2 mm. long. Pedicels 5-22 mm. long. 

 Plant widely branched, the primary branches long and 

 laxly ascending. 12. A. viridis. 



Corolla with posterior lobes arched or flattened over stamens and 

 style, the anterior lobes spreading. V. Tenuifoliae. 



Posterior corolla-lobes over one half length of anterior, concave- 

 arched. Stem nearly or quite glabrous. Axillary fascicles 

 not or but moderately developed. 

 Corolla 20-23 mm. long, pubescent within in narrow line 

 below posterior sinus. Seeds nearly black, with re- 

 ticulations firm and enclosing nearly hexagonal sunken 

 areas; intrareticular lines none. Leaves scabro-roughen- 

 ed to nearly glabrous above. 

 Calyx-lobes .1-4 mm. long, triangular-subulate to subu- 

 late. 13. A. edwardsiana. 

 Calyx-lobes .6-1 mm. long, triangular to triangular- 

 acuminate. 13a. A. edwardsiana glabra. 

 Corolla 10-23 mm. long, glabrous within below posterior 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



sinus. Seeds brown, with reticulations firmer and 

 enclosing broad, angular, not sunken spaces; intrareti- 

 ular lines fine. Leaves somewhat scabrous above. 

 Corolla 15-23 mm. long. Calyx-lobes .2-1 mm. long. 



14a. A. tenufolia leucanthera. 

 Corolla 10-15 mm. long. Calyx-lobes (.5-) 1-2 mm. long. 

 Branches spreading. Leaves slightly scabrous above 

 spreading. Axillary fascicles slightly or not develop- 

 ed. Filaments lanate. Anther-cells densely lanose. 

 14b. A . tenuifolia macrophylla. 

 Branches ascending. Leaves slightly to decidedly 

 scabrous above, ascending. Axillary fascicles relative- 

 ly conspicuously developed. Filaments somewhat lan- 

 ate to glabrous. Anther-cells sparingly to moderately 

 lanose. 14c. A. tenuifolia parviflora. 



Posterior corolla-lobes less than one half length of anterior, 

 flattened-ascending, the corolla 23-27 mm. long, pubes- 

 cent within a narrow line below posterior sinus. Stem 

 scabr illous. Axillary fascicles conspicuously developed. 



15. A. homalantha. 



1. Agalinis heterophylla (Nutt.) Small. 



Gerardia heterophylla Nutt., in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 180. 1834. 



"Hab. In the prairies of the Arkansas, near Great Salt River," Oklahoma. 



Type probably a specimen seen in Herb. Columbia University, labeled 



"Arkansas, Nuttall, Gerardia -irifida." 

 Gerardia crustata Greene, Leaflets Bot. Obs. & Crit. 2: 108. 1910. "Sap- 



ulpa, Indian Territory, 21 Sept. 1894, collected by B. F. Bush. Type 



specimens in my herbarium." Type, Bush 417, seen in Herb. Greene, now 



at the University of Notre Dame. It is the prevalent form with leaves 



all entire. 

 Agalinis heterophylla (Nutt.) Small; Britton & Brown, 111. Fl. N. Un. St. & 



Can. ed. II. 3: 209. 1913. 



Corolla pale-pink, with two yellow lines and many diffused small 

 purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering from late 

 August to early October. 



Sandy or sandy loam, or rarely black calcareous soil, prairie or 

 occasionally pineland, southeastern Missouri and northeastern 

 Oklahoma to southwestern Louisiana and southeastern Texas. 

 Chiefly on the Coastal Plain: most frequent in the coastal prairie 

 and on the edge of the salt-marshes, less frequent to occasional 

 through the short-leaf pine belt and on alluvial soils to southeastern 

 Missouri, and occasional in the black calcareous prairie of central 

 Texas; inland locally frequent in the sandy prairies of eastern 

 Oklahoma. 



Arkansas. Lincoln: Varner, Bush 132 (M, U, Y). Pulaski: 

 Little Rock, Hasse (Y). 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Oklahoma. Cleveland: Norman, Emig 338 (U). Craig: Vinita, 

 Bush 416 (M). Creek: Sapulpa, Bush 417 (H, M, U, Y). 

 Sequoyah: Blunt, E. Palmer (U). 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Pennell 5663 (L, M, P, Y). 

 Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Pennell 5618 (P, U). Cameron: Came- 

 ron, Cocks 3110 (H). 



Texas. Austin: Industry, H. Wurzlow (I). Brazoria: Bra- 

 zoria; Columbia, Bush 290 (M). Colorado: Alleyton, Pennell 5559 

 (A, C, H, P, U, Y) ; Columbus; Eagle Lake, Pennell 5547 (A, C, H, L, 

 M, P, U, Y). Dallas: Dallas, Reverchon 712 p. p. (H, M, U). 

 Galveston: Galveston Id., Pennell 5571 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, P, 

 U, Y). Harris: Brookline, Pennell 5566 (P, U); Harrisburg, Pennell 

 5578 (A, C, H, P); Webster, Pennell 5569 (H, M, P, U). Mata- 

 gorda; Van Vleck, Pennell 5506 (I, P, U). Navarro: Corsicana, 

 Reverchon 3224 p. p. (M). Orange: Orange, Pennell 5611 (A, C, 

 H, I, J, M, P, U, Y). Robertson: Hearne, Pennell 5420 (A, C, M, 

 P, U, Y). Tarrant: Fort Worth, Ruth 72 (C); Handley. Travis: 

 Austin, Young (T). Upshur: Big Sandy, Reverchon 3223 p. p. 

 (M). Victoria: Victoria, Pennell 5502 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, P, S, 

 T, U, Y). 



2. Agalinis aspera (Dougl.) Brit ton. 



Gerardia aspera Dougl.; Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 517. 1846. "In America 



boreali centrali, in planitie Red River (Douglas!) " Type, 



collected by Douglas in Manitoba in 1827, not verified, but certainly the 

 species here considered. 



Agalinis aspera (Dougl.) Britton; Britton & Brown, 111. Fl. N. Un. St. & 

 Can. ed II. 3: 209. 1913. 



Corolla pale-pink, with two yellow lines and many diffused small 

 purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering in August. 



Prairies of central Oklahoma, south to Kiowa County. Through 

 the great Plains north to South Dakota, Manitoba and Illinois. 



Oklahoma. Alfalfa: Carwile, Ward 45 (U, Y). Kay: Ton- 

 ka wa, Barker (C). Kiowa: Snyder, Eggert (M). Payne: Still- 

 water, Waugh 215 (M, U). 



3. Agalinis spiciflora (Engelm.) Pennell. 



Gerardia maritima grandiflora Benth., in Compan. Bot. Mag. 1: 208. 1836. 



"Texas, Drummond, 1st. coll." Type, in Kew Herbarium, verified by 



Dr. N. E. Brown as agreeing with my number 4702 from Florida; isotype 



seen in Herb, of Columbia University. 

 Gerardia spiciflora Engelm., in Boston Jour. Nat. Hist. 5: 227. 1845. New 



name for Gerardia maritima grandiflora Benth. 

 Agalinis spiciflora (Engelm.) Pennell, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71: 



277. 1920. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and many small purple-red 

 spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering from March to Septem- 

 ber. 



Salt marshes, along the Gulf Coast west to Galveston Island, 

 Texas. Along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts from North Carolina 

 to Texas, and on the Bahaman, Cuban, and Yucatan coasts. 



Louisiana. Jefferson: Grand Isle, Langlois (N). Terre Bonne: 

 Timbalier Id., E. C. Wurzlow (Y). 



Texas. Galveston: Galveston Id., Lindheitner 141 (H, M). 



4. Agalinis purpurea (L.) Pennell. 



Gerardia purpurea L., Sp. PL 610. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada." 

 Linnean diagnosis includes both long- and short-pediceled plants so could 

 include all pink ("purple") flowered species. The first citation accom- 

 panied by a figure, Plukenet's Digitalis virginiana rubra, foliis & facie 

 Antirrhini vulgaris, evidently the prevalent plant of the Atlantic seaboard, 

 is considered as the type. 



Agalinis purpurea (L.) Pennell, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 126. 1913. 



Corolla rose-pink, with two yellow lines and many diffused small 

 purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering from July 

 to September. 



Moist sandy soil, mostly along rivers, in short- leaf pine belt of 

 the Coastal Plain of Arkansas, Louisiana and eastern Texas, and 

 probably in heavier soils entering the long-leaf pineland (where in 

 lighter soils it is replaced by A. pinetorum Pennell). Ranges 

 from Massachusetts to Minnesota, south to Florida and Texas. 



Arkansas. Jefferson: Pine Bluff, Pennell 5683 (A, C, H, L, M, 

 P, U, Y). Pulaski: Little Rock, Hasse (Y). 



Louisiana. Boissier: Alden Bridge, Trelease (M). Ouachita: 

 Si card, E. J. Palmer 8927 (M). Rapides: Alexandria, Cocks (L). 



Texas. Harris: Houston, Hall 418 p. p. (I). Smith: Tyler, 

 Reverchon (M). Van Zandt: Grand Saline, Reverchon 2112 p. p. 

 (M, U, Y). 



5. Agalinis pinetorum Pennell. 



Agalinis pinetorum Pennell, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40 : 424. 1913. " Type, 

 St. Marks, Wakulla Co., Florida, Sept. 26, 1912, F. W. Pennell 4708, in 

 Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and diffused purple-red spots 

 within throat anteriorly. Flowering in late September and October. 



Moist soil, in long-leaf pineland and on coastal prairie, central 

 and southern Louisiana. Ranges eastward in long-leaf pine belt 

 to southern Georgia and northern Florida. 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Pennell 5621 (A, C, H, J, 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



M, P, T, U, Y). Rapides: Pineville, Pennell 5643 (C, P), 5648 

 (A, H, K, L, M, P, U, Y). 



6. Agalinis fasciculate (Ell.) Raf. 



Gerardia fasciculata Ell., Sketch Bot. S. C. and Ga. 2: 115. 1822. "Grows 

 principally in lands subject to occasional inundation from the ocean — 

 on Edings Island near Beaufort very common." South Carolina. Type 

 seen at the Charleston Museum. 



Agalinis fasciculata (Ell.) Raf., New Fl. Am. 2: 63. 1837. 



Gerardia galvesiana Greene, Pittonia 5: 138. 1903. "Galveston Id. 

 [Texas], S. M. Tracy, 24 Sept. 1901." Type seen in Greene Herbarium 

 now at University of Notre Dame. A rank, probably salt-marsh plant. 



Gerardia langloisii Greene, Leaflets Bot. Obs. and Crit. 2: 108. 1910. 

 "Known only as collected by the late Father Langlois in prairies near 

 Eunice, Louisiana, 12 Sept., 1894." Type seen in Greene Herbarium. 

 A small-flowered form. 



Gerardia asprella Greene, 1. c. 109. 1910. "Near St. Martinsville, Louisi- 

 ana, 27 Sept., 1892, A. B. Langlois." Type seen in Greene Herbarium. 

 A small-flowered form. 



Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and many diffused purple- 

 red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering from August to 

 October. 



Sandy or clayey loam, especially in old fields, also in prairies and 

 pineland; short-leaf pineland of southern Arkansas and eastern 

 Texas; in the long-leaf pineland and coastal prairie of Louisiana 

 and southeastern Texas (where frequently of more condensed 

 habit and with smaller flowers = Gerardia langloisii and asprella), 

 also west of the Ozarks in central Oklahoma and southwestern 

 Missouri. Ranges eastward through the Coastal Plain to South 

 Carolina. 



Arkansas. Hempstead: Washington, Pennell 5677 (P, Y). 

 Miller: Texarkana, Letterman (Y). Nevada: Prescott, Hollister 

 99 (U). 



Oklahoma. Creek: Sapulpa, Bush 418 (H, M, U, Y), Pennell 

 5396 (M, P, U). 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Kinder, Pennell 5636 (A, H, M, P, U,Y). 

 Rapides: Pineville, Pennell 5644 (P), 5645 (C, P, U, Y). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4271 (A, C, H, M, U, Y). 

 Galveston: Galveston Id., Tracy 7603 p. p. (H, N, Y). Harris: 

 Brookline, Pennell 5565 (P); Harrisburg, Pennell 5563 (P), 5579 

 (P, Y); Houston, Hall 418 p. p. (H, I, M, U, Y); Sheldon; 

 Webster, Pennell 5570 '(J, K, N, P, U). Jasper: Buna, Pennell 

 5588 (P, U), 5604 (P). Matagorda: Van Vleck, Pennell 5511 (C, 

 P, T). Montgomery: Conroe, Pennell 5580 (A ; I, N, P), 5582 

 (H, M, P, Y). Navarro: Corsicana, Reverchon 3224 p. p. (M). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Orange: Orange, Pennell 5609 (P), 5610 (A, H, P, U). Panola: 

 Beckville, Reverchon 2747 (M). Polk: Livingston, E. J. Palmer 

 6751 (M). Robertson: Hearne, Pennell 5423 (A, C, H, M, P, U). 



Rusk: , Vinzent (M). Upshur: Big Sandy, Reverchon 3223 



p. P. (M). 



7. Agalinis pulchella Pennell. 



Agalinis pulchella Pennell, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 428, 1913. "Type, 

 Ponce de Leon, Holmes Co., Florida, Sept. 17, 1912, F. W. Pennell 4658, 

 in Herb. University of Pennsylvania." 



Corolla rose-pink, with two yellow lines and relatively large 

 purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering in September. 



Open sandy long-leaf pineland, central Louisiana. Ranges east- 

 ward to southern Georgia and northern Florida. 



Louisiana. Rapides: Glenmora, Pennell 5631 (L, M, P, U); 

 Pineville, Pennell 5637 (A, C, H, P, U, Y). 



8. Agalinis caddoensis Pennell, sp. nov. 



Annual. Plant dull-green or purplish, tending to blacken in 

 drying. Stem 4-6 dm. tall, slender, with many loosely ascend- 

 ing branches, finely striate, 4-angled above, very sparingly scabrel- 

 lous. Leaves opposite, or sparingly subopposite above, spreading, 

 filiform, entire, acuminate, strongly involute, those of the stem 2.5-3 

 cm. long, .8 mm. wide; bracts slightly reduced; leaves scabrous 

 above. Axillary fascicles not developed. Racemes scarcely 

 elongated, broken, frequently but one flower of pair developed, 1-5 

 flowered. Pedicels ascending-spreading, slender, sparingly scab- 

 rellous to glabrous, in flower 13-22 mm. long, equaling to slightly 

 longer than the bracts, many on the branches appearing as termin- 

 al. Calyx-tube 4-5 mm. long, hemispheric-campanulate, obscurely 

 5-ribbed, truncate; its lobes .7-1 mm. long, triangular-subulate, 

 not callose; apex of tube and lobes within evidently puberulent. 

 Corolla (20-) 25-30 mm. long, spreading 23-28 mm. wide, membra- 

 nous, its tube 19-23 mm. long, slightly upcurved, its lobes 6-7 mm. 

 long, rounded to retuse, all spreading; externally minutely pubes- 

 cent in line below posterior sinus ; lobes ciliate, the posterior slightly 

 more so; rose-pink, 2 yellow lines and many small diffused red- 

 purple spots within throat anteriorly. Filaments flattened, post- 

 erior 7-9 mm. long, anterior 11-13 mm. long, all lanose, especially 

 toward apex; anther-cells 3-3.5 mm. long, oblong-lanceolate, obtuse 

 to acutish at base, lanose with white hairs on the valvular surface, 

 glabrous on the sides. Style 11-13 mm. long, linear, pubescent. 

 Stigma 3.5 mm. long. Capsule not seen. 



Type, dry loam oakwoods along Kansas City Southern Rail- 

 road 2-3 miles northwest of Shreveport, Caddo Parish, Louisiana; 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



collected in flower October 5, 1913, F. W. Pennell 5653; in Herb. 

 University of Pennsylvania; flowers in October. 



Dry loam oak woods around Shreveport, Caddo Parish, Louis- 

 iana. 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Pennell 5655 (A, J, L, P, U), 

 5658 (C, H, K, M, P, U, Y), 5665 (P). 



9. Agalinis strictifolia (Benth.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Gerardia strictifolia Benth., in Comp. Bot. Mag. 1: 209. 1836. "Hab. Texas, 

 Drummond, (3rd Coll. n. 294)." Type seen in Kew Herbarium. Iso- 

 type in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, etc. 



Corolla pale purplish-pink, with two yellow lines and many dif- 

 fused purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering from 

 late August to early October. 



Sandy soil, or more rarely black calcareous loam, Coastal Plain, 

 from Austin and Travis to Webb counties, southern Texas. Fre- 

 quent or common through the sandy southern Fayette prairie region 

 and on the coastal prairie, less frequent inland in the black belt; 

 in the valley of the Nueces River and on the lower Rio Grande. 

 Texas. Austin: San Felipe, Drummond 294 (A, H, K, Y). 

 Lavaca: Hallettsville, Fisher 125 (U). Nueces: Corpus Christi, 

 Rose 18066 (U). Travis: Austin, Pennell 5431 (A, H, J, M, P, 

 U, Y). Victoria: Aloe, Pennell 5492 (C, L, N, P, U, Y); Victoria, 

 Pennell 5489 (I, P, S). Webb: Rio San Pedro, etc., Schott (H). 



10. Agalinis oligophylla Pennell. 



Gerardia aphylla grandiflora Benth., in Compan. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. 



"Jacksonville [Drummond]." Type labeled "Jacksonville," evidently the 



present Jackson, Louisiana, seen in Kew Herbarium. 

 Gerardia plukenetii microphylla A. Gray, Syn. Fl. N. Am. 1. II: 293. 1878. 



"Louisiana, Drummond, Hale." Type, an isotype of Gerardia aphylla 



grandiflora Benth., seen in Gray Herbarium. 

 Agalinis oligophylla Pennell, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 432. 1913. New 



name for Gerardia plukenetii microphylla A. Gray, not A. microphyUa 



Raf., 1837. 



Corolla rose-pink, with two yellow lines and, mostly along these, 

 rather large purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering 

 from late September to late October. 



Sandy or somewhat clayey soil, long-leaf pineland, or more rarely 

 prairies, southern Louisiana and southeastern Texas. Most 

 abundant in the flat long-leaf pineland of southwestern Louis- 

 iana and southeastern Texas, less frequent or occasional on the 

 adjacent coastal prairie. Ranges eastward to southern Mississippi. 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Pennell 5617 (A, C, H, J, 

 K, L, M, P, U, Y). Rapides: Glenmora, Pennell 5630 (A, C, H, 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



I, J, L, M, N, P, U, Y); Pineville, Pennell 5640 (A, C, H, P, S), 5647 

 (K, M, P, U, Y). 



Texas. Hardin: Silsbee, Pennell 5591 (M, N, P, U). Harris: 

 Harrisburg, Pennell 5576 (A, C, H, J, K, L, M, P, S, T, U, Y). 

 Jasper: Buna, Pennell 5583 (A, C, H, L, N, P, S, Y). Orange: 

 Orange, Pennell 5607 (P). 



II. Agalinis gattingeri (Small) Small. 



Gerardia tenuifolia leptophylla Benth., in Compan. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. 



"Jacksonville, Louisiana. Drummond." Type seen in Kew Herbarium. 

 Gerardia gattingeri Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1078, 1338. 1903. "Type, 



Curtiss N . A. PI. no. 1910* in Herb. C. U." Type, collected by A. Gattinger 



on hills around Nashville, Tennessee, seen in Herb. Columbia University. 

 Agalinis gattingeri (Small) Small, in Britton & Brown, 111. Fl. N. Un. St. and 



Can. ed II. 3:213. 1913. 



Corolla pink, with two yellow lines and several to many rather 

 large purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering from 

 late August to mid-October. 



Sandy or clayey soil, often stony, woodland, barrens or open 

 bluffs ; in the Ozark and Ouachita mountains of Arkansas and south- 

 eastern Oklahoma; in hills of east-central Oklahoma; in the oak and 

 short-leaf pineland of northwestern Louisiana and eastern Texas, 

 extending nearly to coast in Harris County, Texas. Ranges from 

 Michigan and Minnesota, south to Alabama and Texas. 



Arkansas. Boone: Harrison, E. J. Palmer 6913 (M). Carroll: 

 Eureka Springs, E. J. Palmer 4561 (P). Garland: Hot Springs, 

 Pennell 5681 (P). Hempstead: Fulton, E. J. Palmer 6870 (M). 

 Newton: Jasper, E. J. Palmer 6945 (M). Pulaski: Little Rock, 

 Hasse (Y). 



Oklahoma. Creek: Sapulpa, Bush 443 (M, N, U, Y). Le 

 Flore: Canaval Mt., E. J. Palmer 9057 (M). 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Pennell 5656 (P, U), 5659 

 (C, M, N, P, Y), 5666 (A, H, I, L, P, U). Rapides: Alexandria, 

 Hale (A, U, Y). Sabine: Sodus, Pennell 5650 (A, J, K, L, M, P, 

 S, T, Y), 5652 (C, H, N, P, U). 



Texas. Harris: Lynchburg, Lindheimer (M). Lamar: Paris, 

 Heller 4219 (M, U, Y). Panola: Beckville, Reverchon 3225 (M). 

 Polk: Livingston, E. J. Palmer 6796 (M). 



12. Agalinis viridis (Small) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Gerardia viridis Small, in Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 25: 619. 1898. "Mr. Heller 

 . . . collected . . . specimens . . . about Texarkana, Arkan- 

 sas, during the past season, no. 4240." Type seen in Herb. New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



Corolla pale-pink, with two yellow lines and faint purple-red 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



spots within throat anteriorly. Flowering from early September 

 to early October. 



Moist sandy pineland in the Coastal Plain; frequent or common in 

 long-leaf pineland, rarely on coastal prairies, in southwestern Louis- 

 iana and southeastern Texas; frequent or occasional in short-leaf 

 pineland, of northwestern Louisiana and northeastern Texas, extend- 

 ing through eastern Arkansas to southeastern Missouri; also on 

 prairies of southwestern Missouri. 



Arkansas. Jefferson: Pine Bluff, Pennell 5184 (A, C, H, J. 

 M, P, U, Y). 



Louisiana. Boissier: Alden Bridge, Trelease (M). Caddo: 

 Shreveport, Pennell 5668 (A, H, L, M, P). Calcasieu: Kinder, 

 Pennell 5625 (C, P, Y); Lake Charles, Pennell 5620 (P, S, U). 

 Rapides: Glenmora, Pennell 5633 (A, H, L, M, N, P, U); Pine- 

 ville, Pennell 5642 (P, U), 5649 (C, P, U, Y). St. Landry: Eunice, 

 Langlois (N). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Heller 4240 (A, C, H, I, M, U, Y). 

 Brazoria: Columbia, Bush 1532 (M, Y). Hardin: Silsbee, Penn- 

 ell 5592 (C, H, K, N, P). Harris: Harrisburg, Pennell 5577 (C, H, 

 M, P, T, U, Y). Jasper: Buna, Pennell 5584 (A, I, J, L, P, U), 

 5589 (M, N, P, Y). Orange: Orange, Pennell 5606 (A, P, U). 



13. Agalinis edwardsiana Pennell, sp. nov. 



Annual. Plant dull-green or purplish, tending to blacken in 

 drying. Stem 4-8 dm. tall, slender, with many laxly ascending- 

 spreading branches, obscurely striate 4-angled above, nearly terete 

 below, essentially glabrous (sparingly very minutely scabrellous 

 near bases of branches). Leaves opposite or sparingly suboppos- 

 ite above, spreading, or the lower frequently somewhat reflexed, 

 linear, entire, acuminate, those of the stem 2-3.5. cm. long, .5-.9 

 mm. wide; bracts gradually reduced; leaves scabro-roughened to 

 nearly glabrous above. Axillary fascicles scarcely or not devel- 

 oped, when present much shorter than the subtending leaves. 

 Racemes slightly elongated, frequently but one flower of pair 

 developed, 2-9 flowered. Pedicels ascending-spreading, slender, 

 filiform, glabrous, in flower 5-30 mm. long, in fruit 10-32 mm. 

 long, 1.5 to 3 times the length of the bracts. Calyx-tube 3.5-4.5 mm. 

 long, hemispheric, obscurely veined, rib-veined, ■§— | the length of the 

 capsule, truncate, its lobes .1-.4 mm. long, triangular-subulate to 

 subulate, acuminate; apex of tube and lobes within granular- 

 puberulent. Corolla 20-23 mm. long, spreading 18-20 mm. wide, 

 membranous; its tube 12-14 mm. long, straight; its lobes, posterior 

 5-6 mm. long, anterior 8-9 mm. long, all erose to emarginate, anter- 

 ior spreading, posterior broadly arched over stamens and style; exter- 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



nally mostly glabrous, sparingly minutely pubescent below sinuses of 

 lobes, within slightly pubescent about bases of filaments and in nar- 

 row line below posterior sinus; lobes all ciliate; rose-pink, 2 yellow 

 lines and many small diffused sharply-defined red-purple spots with- 

 in throat anteriorly. Filaments flattened, posterior 6 mm. long, an- 

 terior 9-10 mm. long, posterior lanose-pubescent near base, glabrous 

 distally, becoming slightly lanose-pubescent toward apex, anterior 

 lanose throughout; anther-cells 3-3.3 mm. long, lanceolate, cuspidate 

 at base, scarcely muriculate, very densely lanose with white hairs 

 hairs on the valvular surface, glabrous on the sides. Style 13-15 

 mm. long, filiform-linear, pubescent to glabrous. Stigma 1-1.5 

 mm. long. Capsule 6-7 mm. long, globose to obovoid-globose, 

 dark-brown. Seeds 1.1-1.3 mm. long, broadly lunate-triangular 

 to ovoid, narrower than broad, irregular, rounded; testa dark-brown 

 to nearly black, with reticulations firm, nearly or quite black, en- 

 closing broad, nearly hexagonal, angular, sunken spaces (honey- 

 comb appearance); intrareticular lines not evident. 



Type, dry adobe hills, 5 miles northeast of Boerne, Kendall 

 County, Texas, collected in flower September 16, 1913, F. W. 

 Pennell 5482; in Herb. University of Pennsylvania. 



Thin soil over limestone, adobe soil, Edwards Plateau of Central 

 Texas. Flowering in September. 



Texas. Bexar: Comanche Spring, Lindheimer 149 (A, C, H, 

 M, P, U, Y). Gillespie: Three Mill Creek, Jermy 754 p. p. (M, 

 U); Williams Creek. Kendall: Boerne, Pennell 5482 (A, C, H, 

 J, K, L, M, P, S, U, Y), 10417 (Y). Kerr: Kerrville, Pennell 10369 

 (A, C, T, U, Y). Travis: Austin, Pennell 10454 (H, M, P, Y), 

 Tharp (T). 



13a. Agalinis edwardsiana glabra Pennell, var. nov. 



Stricter, Calyx-lobes .6-1 mm. long, triangular to triangular- 

 acuminate. Mature capsule not seen. Otherwise as in the species. 



Type, arroyos, Devils River, Texas, collected in flower, C. C. 

 Parry (Mexican Boundary Survey 784) ; in United States National 

 Herbarium. 



Arroyos, western Edwards Plateau, Texas. 



Texas. Valverde: Devils River, Parry (Mex. Bound. Surv. 

 784), (H, U). 



14. Agalinis tenuifolia (Vahl) Raf. 



Gerardia tenuifolia Vahl, Symb. Bot. 3: 7. 1794. "Habitat in America 

 septentionali." Type in Herb. Universitetets Botaniske Museum, 

 Copenhagen, Denmark, collected by Von Rohren, and said to be pro- 

 bably from Philadelphia, is identified by Dr. C. H. Ostenfeld as agreeing 

 with my number 2681 from Pennsylvania. 

 Agalinis tenuifolia (Vahl) Raf., New Fl. Am. 2: 64. 1837.. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Corolla purplish-pink, with two yellow lines and small diffused 

 purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. 



The typical form, with small-corollas and minute calyx-lobes, a 

 plant widespread iri the eastern United States and which passes 

 into each of the following varieties, is scarcely or not represented 

 in our area. Possibly the following collection should be assigned 

 to it: 



Arkansas. Miller: Texarkana, Pennell 5671 (P, U). 



14a. Agalinis tenuifolia leucanthera (Raf.) Pennell. 



Gerardia leucanthera Raf., Fl. Ludov. 50. 1817. Louisiana. C. C. Robin. 



No type known to exist. 

 Agalinis tenuifolia leucanthera (Raf.) Pennell, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 71: 286. 1920. 



Usually in moist soil, loam or clay, rarely in sand, woodland or 

 meadow, especially near streams, in the Coastal Plain of Louisi- 

 ana and eastern Texas. Ranges eastward through the Coastal 

 Plain to southern Georgia and northern Florida. Eastward passes 

 into the species. 



Louisiana. Caddo: Shreveport, Pennell 5657 (P), 5660 (P, U), 

 5661 (A, H, K, L, M, P, Y), 5664 (C, J, P) , 5669 (P, S). Calcasieu: 

 Lake Charles, Pennell 5616 (C, H, L, P, U, Y); West Lake, Pennell 



5612 (A, M, N, P, U) Concordia: , Smith (H). Rapides; 



Alexandria, Hale (L, Y). 



Texas. Bowie: Texarkana, Pennell 5673 (P), 5676 (P, T). 

 Harrison: Marshall, E. J. Palmer 6860 (M). Orange: Orange, 

 Pennell 5608 (P). Van Zandt: Grand Saline, Reverchon 2112 p. p. 

 (M). 



14b. Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla (Benth.) Blake. 



Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth., in Compan. Bot. Mag. 1: 174. 1836. 



"St. Louis, Jacksonville." T. Drummond. Fragment of type labeled 



"St. Louis," from Kew Herbarium, seen. 

 Gerardia besseyana Britton, in Mem. Torr. Bot. Club 5: 295. 1894. New 



name for Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth., not G. macrophylla 



(Nutt.) Benth. 

 Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla (Benth.) Blake, in Rhodora 20: 71. 1918. 



Moist to dry loam or clay soil, in deciduous woodland, usually 

 along streams, in and near the Ozark and Ouachita hills, and the 

 hills of east-central Oklahoma. Ranges from southern Ontario to 

 Minnesota, south to northern Alabama and eastern Oklahoma. 

 Eastward passes into the species and westward into the following 

 variety. 



Arkansas. Cleburne: Heber Springs, E. J. Palmer 6985 (M). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



Hempstead: Fulton, Bush 1065 (M, U, Y). Nevada: Prescott, 

 Hollister 65 (U). White: Bald Knob, Biltm. Herb. 477 (U). 



Oklahoma. Cherokee: , Woodhouse (H). Creek: Sap- 



ulpa, Bush 421 (M). 



14c. Agalinis tenuifolia parviflora (Nutt.) Pennell, comb. nov. 



Gerardia tenuifolia parviflora Nutt., in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 180. 1837. 

 "In the prairies of the Arkansas above the Verdigris River." Oklahoma. 

 T. Nuttall. Type, labeled "Ark.," seen in Herb. Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Moist soil, prairies near rivers, Great Plains of northern Okla- 

 homa. Ranges from Michigan and North Dakota to Oklahoma 

 and eastern Colorado. Eastward intergrades with the preceding 

 variety. 



Oklahoma. Alfalfa: Cherokee [Outlet], Carleton 439 (U). 

 Wagoner (?): prairies above Verdigris River, Nuttall (A). 



15. Agalinis homalantha Pennell. sp. nov. 



Gerardia longifolia Nutt., in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 180. 1834. "Hab. 

 on the banks of the Arkansas." T. Nuttall. Type seen in Herb. Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Not Agalinis longifolia Raf ., 1837. 



Annual. Plant green or purplish, tending to blacken in drying. 

 Stem 4-7 dm. tall, slender, with many ascending-spreading branches, 

 scarcely striate-angled, slightly scabrellous. Leaves opposite, 

 slightly subopposite above, spreading, linear, entire, acuminate, 

 those of the stem 2.5-3 cm. long, 1-1.5 mm. wide; bracts gradually 

 reduced; leaves somewhat scabrous above. Axillary fascicles 

 strongly developed, shorter than the subtending leaves. Racemes 

 elongated, frequently but one flower of pair developed, 4-10 

 flowered. Pedicels ascending-spreading, slender, filiform, slightly 

 scabrellous, in flower 10-20 mm. long, in fruit reaching at least 

 20-27 mm. long, 1.5-2.5 times the length of the bracts. Calyx- 

 tube 3-3.5 mm. long, broadly campanuate (in flower), scarcely 

 rib-veined, truncate, its lobes 1-1.2 mm. long, lanceolate, acuminate; 

 apex of tube and lobes within densely puberulent. Corolla 23-27 

 mm. long, spreading 21-25 mm. wide, membranous; its tube 15-18 

 mm. long, straight; its anterior lobes 8-9 mm long, posterior 3-4 mm. 

 long, all slightly rounded to truncate, anterior spreading, posterior 

 scarcely or not arched, flat-extended over stamens and style; 

 externally pubescent, especially distally, within slightly pubescent 

 about bases of filaments, pubescent in line below posterior sinus; 

 lobes all conspicuously ciliate; rose-pink, 2 yellow lines and many 

 small diffused purple-red spots within throat anteriorly. Filaments 

 flattened, posterior 5-6 mm. long, anterior 7-8 mm. long, all lanose, 

 very densely so toward apex; anther-cells 3-3.5 mm. long, lanceolate, 

 cuspidate at base, very densely lanose with tortuous white hairs 

 on the valvular surface, glabrous on the side3. Style 12-14 mm. long, 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



filiform-linear, slightly pubescent. Stigma 1.5-2 mm. long. Cap- 

 sule not seen. 



Type, sandy oakwoods, along San Antonio and Arkansas Rail- 

 road, about one mile west of Sheridan, Colorado County, Texas, 

 collected in flower September 21, 1913, F. W. Pennell 5522; in Herb. 

 University of Pennsylvania. 



Sandy soil, post oak-woods, Fayette zone of central southeastern 

 Texas, northward in cross-timbers to the hills of southern Okla- 

 homa and the Arkansas River, certainly rare or local. Flowering 

 in September. 



Oklahoma. Johnston: Tishomingo, E. J. Palmer 6494 (M). 

 : Arkansas River, Nuttall (A). 



Texas. Austin: San Felipe, Drummond 217 (H, Y). Colo- 

 rado: Sheridan, Pennell 5522 (C, H, L, M, P, U, Y). Dallas: Oak 

 Cliff, Reverchon (M). Harris: Houston, Hall (M). Waller: 

 Hempstead, Hall (I) [differs by calyx-lobes apparently abnormally 

 Jong, 5-6 mm. long]. 



26. OTOPHTLLA 9 Benth. 



Otophylla Benth., in DC. Prod. 10: 512. 1846. 



Type species, Gerardia auriculata Michx. 



Leaf-blades lanceolate to broadly lanceolate, upper auricled at 

 base; scabrous above. Spikes little crowded. Calyx-tube over 

 one-half capsule length, retrorse-pubescent. Corolla 20-23 mm. 

 long. Style pubescent. Capsule 10-13 mm. long, broadly ovate. 

 Seeds slightly angled. 0. auriculata. 



Leaf- blades bipinnatifid, segments linear or nearly so; nearly glab- 

 rous above. Spikes densely crowded. Calyx-tube less than 

 one-half capsule length, minutely scabrellous to glabrate. Cor- 

 olla 23-32 mm. long. Style glabrous. Capsule 8-10 mm. 

 long, ovate-oblong. Seeds sharply angled. 0. densiflora. 



1. Otophylla auriculata (Michx.) Small. 



Gerardia auriculata Michx., Fl. Bor. Am. 2: 20. 1803. "In pratis regionis 



Illinoensis [A. Michaux.]" Type not verified, but description distinctive. 



Otophylla auriculata (Michx.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1075, 1338. 1903. 



Corolla rose-pink, with many rather small purple-red spots 

 within throat anteriorly. Flowering in August and September. 



Moist to dry prairies, old fields, apparently native from Michigan 

 to southern Minnesota and northwestern Arkansas; introduced in 

 the northeastern states, but whether introduced or native in north- 

 eastern Texas is uncertain. 



9 For discussion of generic name see Bull. Torr. Bot. Club 40: 126. 1913, and 

 Torreya 19: 215-16. 1919. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Arkansas. "N. W. Ark.," Harvey 11 (H). 



Texas. Tarrant: Benbrook, Reverchon 3937 (M, Y). 



2. Otophylla densiflora (Benth.) Small. 



Gerardia densiflora Benth., in Compan. Bot. Mag. 1: 206. 1837. "Texas. 

 Drummond." Isotype, Drummond 218, seen in Herb. Columbia Uni- 

 versity. 



Otophylla densiflora (Benth.) Small, Fl. S. E. Un. St. 1075, 1338. 1903. 



Dry sterile or stony prairies and bluffs, especially calcareous, 

 central Oklahoma south to the hills of central Texas (eastern Ed- 

 wards Plateau). Ranges northward to central Kansas. Flower- 

 ing in August and early September. 



Oklahoma. Alfalfa: Cherokee [Outlet], Carleton 470 (I, U). 



Cleveland: , P. J. White (R). Logan: ■ , Carleton 728 



(O, R). Payne: , Olive 142 (Y). 



Texas. Bexar: Comanche Spring, Lindheimer 112 (A, C, H, M, 



P, U, Y). Blanco: Blanco, (M). Comal: New Braunfels, 



Lindheimer 379 (A, C, H, M, P, U, Y). Dallas: Dallas, Reverchon 

 1198 (C, M, P, U). Hood: Granbury, E. J. Palmer 6556 (M). 



27. BUCHNERA Linng. 

 Buchnera L., Sp. PI. 630. 1753. 

 Type species, B. americana L. 



Leaves 3-9 cm. long, lanceolate to ovate-lanceolate, relatively 

 coarsely dentate. Corolla-lobes 6-9 mm. long, the tube 2-2 ^> 

 times the length of the calyx. Capsule 8-9 mm. long, oblong. 

 Stem hirsute-pubescent. 1. B. americana. 



Leaves 2-7 cm. long, prevailingly lanceolate-elliptic, mostly obtuse, 

 entire or the lower slightly dentate. Corolla-lobes usually 

 4-6 mm. long, the tube mostly 1-1 }/£ times the length of the calyx. 

 Capsule 5-6.5 mm. long, ovate. Stem less pubescent or even 

 glabrate. 2. B. elongata obtusa. 



l. Buchnera americana L. 



Buchnera americana L. I.e. 630. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Canada.'' 

 Based upon Gron., Fl. Virg. 74. 1743, typified by Clayton 142 from 

 Virginia. Description sufficiently distinctive. 



Corolla purplish-blue throughout. Flowering from June to Sept- 

 ember, and soon ripening fruit. 



Sandy or loam soil, prairies and barren knolls or open woodland 

 of western Arkansas and eastern and central Oklahoma; southward 

 into the Coastal Plain of Louisiana and eastern Texas (where leaves 

 are smaller and more entire, and the plant probably intergrades 

 with B. elongata obtusa Pennell). Ranges from Pennsylvania to 

 southern Ontario and Illinois, south to Florida and Texas. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



Arkansas. Sebastian: Fort Smith, Bigelow (U, Y). 



Oklahoma. Alfalfa: Cherokee [Outlet], Carleton 477 (U). 



Bryon: Colberts, Sheldon (Y). Caddo (?): , E. Palmer 



221 (U, Y). Payne: Ingalls, Waugh 18 (U). 



Louisiana. , Hale (Y). 



Texas. Jasper: Buna, Pennell 5587 (P). 



2. Buchnera elongata obtusa Pennell. 



Buchnera elongata obtusa Pennell, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71 : 288, 

 1920. "Type, open sandy pineland, 1-2 miles north of Abita Springs, 

 St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana, collected in flower and fruit August 14, 

 1912, F. W. Pennell 4190, in Herb. New York Botanical Garden." 



Corolla purplish-blue or violet-purplish throughout. Flowering 

 from May to October, and soon ripening fruit. 



Sandy soil, long-leaf pineland and adjacent coastal prairie of 

 southern Louisiana and southeastern Texas; westward to oak-woods 

 of Colorado county, Texas. Ranges eastward in the Coastal Plain 

 to North Carolina. 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Allison 251 (U, Y). 

 Jeff Davis: Jennings, Pennell 10207 (L, M, Y). Rapides: Alexan- 

 dria, Hale (Y). 



Texas. Colorado: Sheridan, Pennell. 5521 (P, Y). Hardin: 

 Silsbee, Pennell 5590 (P, Y) . Waller : Hempstead, Hall 417 (U, Y) . 

 Wichita: Burkburnett, Tharp 604 (Y.) 



28. SCHWALBEA LinnS. 

 Schwalbea L., Sp. PI. 606. 1753. 



Type species, S. americana L., of Virginia. 



1. Schwalbea australis Pennell. 



Schwalbea australis Pennell, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 71 : 289. 1920. 

 "Type, damp pine barrens near Seville, Volusia County, Florida, collect- 

 ed in flower May 10, 1900, A. H. Curtiss 6742; in Herb. New York Botani- 

 cal Garden." 



Sandy soil, rather moist, Oakland and pineland, in central 

 Louisiana. Ranges through the Coastal Plain from South Carolina 

 to central Florida and Louisiana. Flowering in May. 



Louisiana. Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (Y), Cocks (L). 



29. CASTILLEJA Mutis. 

 CastiUeja Mutis; L. f., Suppl. 293. 1781. 



Type species, C. fissifolia L. f., of Colombia. 



Root perennial. Sepals not expanding distally. Seeds with 

 heavier reticulations enclosing relatively hexagonal areas. 

 Stems white-tomentose or -lanate. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



Sepals of each side distally free. Posterior lobes of corolla with 

 narrow membranous margins, anterior lobes relatively 

 developed (over one third length of posterior) and distally 

 thin. Leaf-blades pinnatifid-lobed, and like the calyx 

 more or less pubescent. 

 Corolla 40-50 mm. long. Sepals attenuate, acutish to acute. 

 Capsule 15 mm. long. Stem tomentose. Bracts and 

 calyx distally yellowish. 1. C. sessiliflora. 



Corolla shorter. Sepals broader. Capsule 10-13 mm. long. 

 Stem appressed-lanate. 

 Corolla 35-40 mm. long, its anterior lobes 5-7 mm. long, 

 yellow and much longer than the slightly thickened 

 green base. Sepals acute to acuminate. Stigma about 

 1 mm. wide. Leaves 3-7 cm. long. Bracts and calyx 

 yellowish. 2. C. labiata. 



Corolla 30-35 mm. long. Seeds 1.5-1.8 mm. long, brown. 

 Leaves 5-8 cm. long. 

 Anterior corolla-lobes 5-7 mm. long, purple, evidently 

 longer than the thickened green base. Sepals acutish 

 or acute. Bracts and calyx distally violet-purple. 

 Stigma nearly 1 mm. wide. 3. C. purpurea. 



Anterior corolla-lobes 3-4 mm. long, pinkish, little if at 

 all longer than the thickened green base. Sepals 

 obtuse. Bracts and calyx distally orange-red. Stigma 

 about .5-.7 mm. wide 4. C. lindheimeri. 



Corolla 18-23 mm. long. Seeds 1.2 mm. long, blackish- 

 brown. Leaves 3-6 cm. long. Bracts and calyx distally 

 lemon-yellow. 5. C. citrina. 



Sepals of each side united throughout, broadly rounded. Posterior 

 lobes of corolla with broad membranous margins, anterior 

 lobes green, thickened nearly throughout, and less than one 

 fourth length of posterior. Leaf-blades entire. 

 Stems, leaves and calyces densely white-lanate. Leaves 



linear; the bracts usually trifid. 6. C. lanata. 



Stem, leaves and calyces finely pubescent, green. Leaves 

 oblong-lanceolate ; the bracts broad, entire. 7. C. latebracteata. 

 Root annual. Sepals of each side united throughout, expanding 

 distally to the broadly rounded apex. Seeds with lighter 

 pale-brown reticulations enclosing slightly elongated areas. 

 Bracts and calyx distally red. Stem loosely pubescent. 

 Anterior corolla-lobes developed, distally thin, yellowish. Leaf- 

 blades pinnatifid-lobed. Plant forming a flat basal rosette 

 of leaves, which persist until after anthesis. 8. C. coccinea. 



Anterior corolla-lobes very short, thickened, green. Leaf-blades 

 entire or occasionally slightly pinnatifid-lobed. Basal rosettes 

 less definitely formed, not persisting. 9. C. indivisa. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [PART III 



1. Castillo ja sessiliflora Pursh. 



Castilleja sessiliflora Pursh, Fl. Am. Sept. 738. 1814. "In upper Louisiana. 



Bradbury v.s. in Herb. Bradbury." Imperfectly described. Better 



characterized by Nuttall, who knew the plant growing, as Euchroma grandi- 

 flora, Gen. N. Am. PI. 2: 55. 1818. 



Corolla yellowish-green, the posterior lip pink-margined, the 

 anterior yellowish-white and only slightly greenish-thickened at 

 base. Bracts and calyx distinctly yellowish. Flowering in May 

 and June. 



Sandy or rocky plains and bluffs, escarpments of the Staked 

 Plains of northwestern Texas; Upper Sonoran Zone (at altitudes 

 above 1500 meters). Through the Great Plains from Illinois and 

 Manitoba to Wyoming and northwestern Texas. 



Texas. Hall: Estelline, Reverchon 4316 (M, U, Y). Randall: 

 Canyon, Pennell 10542 (A, H, M, O, T, U, Y). 



2. Castilleja labiata Pennell, sp. nov. 



Root perennial. Stems several, 1.5 — 2 dm. tall, arachnoid-lanate 

 with close pubescence. Leaves 3-7 cm. long, linear to lanceolate, 

 slightly 3-ribbed, trifid, with narrow lobes, finely cinereous-pubescent 

 especially on the lower surface, green above, paler beneath. Bracts 

 broader, conspicuously trifid, probably distally yellowish or gresn- 

 ish-yellow. Sepals 22-25 mm. long, those of each side united \ 

 length, acutish to acuminate, puberulent, apparently yellowish. Co- 

 rolla 35-40 mm. long; posterior lip 10-12 mm. long, with thin mar- 

 gins; anterior 5-7 mm. long, proximally deep-green, distally flaring, 

 evidently yellow or yellowish; anterior lobes glandular-pubescent, 

 posterior with longer glandless hairs. Stigma about 1 mm. wide. 

 Capsule not seen. 



Type, stony prairie (uncommon), San Angelo, Texas, collected 

 in flower May 19, 1899, W. L. Bray 353, in United States National 

 Herbarium; isotype in Herb. University of Texas. 



I regret that the spring of 1920 had been so dry, and consequently 

 so early, that on my visit to San Angelo on May 18 and 19, all 

 Castillejas were in fruit and shriveled. I failed to find this species, 

 but the plant I did find and which appeared to be common proved 

 to be C. citrina, below. Though disliking to base a species of this 

 critical genus on so few collections, I think C. labiata must be 

 recognized. It appears to be a primitive member of the alliance of 

 C. purpurea (Nutt.) G. Don, connecting that group with C. sessili- 

 flora Pursh. 



Texas. Tom Green: San Angelo, Bray 353 (T, U). Valverde: 

 Devil's River, Pilsbry (A). 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



3. Castilleja purpurea (Nutt.) G. Don. 



Euchroma purpurea Nutt., in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. II. 5: 180. 1837. 



"Hab. On rocks in the hilly prairies of Red River [Arkansas Territory. 



T. Nuttall]" Type seen in Herb. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phd- 



adelphia. 

 Castilleja purpurea (Nutt.) G. Don, Gen. Hist. 4: 615. 1838. 



Rocky prairies and bluffs, especially calcareous, in the Grand and 

 Black Prairies and adjacent hills, southeastern Oklahoma and north- 

 eastern Texas; also in the prairies of the Verdigris River in north- 

 eastern Oklahoma. Flowering in April and May, and soon ripen- 

 ing fruit. 



Oklahoma. Atoka: Limestone Gap, G. D. Butler 30 (U). 

 McCurtain: Idabel, Houghton 3681 (M). Rogers: Catoosa, Bush 

 1048 (M, Y). 



Texas. Dallas: Dallas, Reverchon 714 (M, P, U). Hood: 

 Granbury, Eggert (M, U, Y). Tarrant: Texas Christian Univ., 

 Ruth 371 (U, Y). 



4. Castilleja lindheimeri A. Gray. 



Castilleja lindheimeri A. Gray, Syn. Fl. N. Am. 2. 1: 298. 1878. "Stony 

 or fertile mountain prairies, on the Piedernales and Guadalupe, W. Texas. 

 Lindheimer, &c."" Type not seen, but description distinctive. 



Corolla whitish-green, the posterior lip with orange-red margin, 

 the anterior pinkish-red and green-thickened at base. Bracts and 

 calyx distally orange-red. Flowering in April and May, and soon 

 ripening fruit. 



Gravelly or rocky calcareous soil, prairies or hills, from Parker 

 and Tom Green (or Martin) to Hays and Uvalde counties, Texas. 

 Common on the hills of the Edwards Plateau, on the Lampasas 

 Plain and in the Coleman and Concho districts, Lower Sonoran 

 Zone (at altitudes of 500 to 2,000 feet). 



Texas. Bexar: Camp Stanley Jnc, Pennell 10414 (T, Y). 

 Blanco: Blanco, E. J. Palmer 13290 (M). Coleman: Coleman, 

 Reverchon 117 (M). Comal: Fischer Store, E. J. Palmer 12189 

 (M). Comanche: Comanche, Eggert (M). Gillespie: Nibo Mt., 

 Jermy 279 (M, U). Hays: San Marcos, Pennell 10431 (A, C, H, 

 K, M, T, U, Y). Hood: Granbury, Eggert (M). Kendall: 

 Boerne, Pennell 10421 (P, Y). Kerr: Kerrville, Heller 1630 

 (A, M, U, Y), Pennell 10364 (A, H, L, M, T, Y), 10396 (J, O, S, U, Y) ; 

 Laceys Ranch; Turtle Creek. [? Martin: 10 Stanton, Eggert (M).] 



10 Martin: Stanton (prairies n.) H. Eggert, collected in flower and fruit June 

 13, 1900 (M). 



Plant 3.5 dm. tall, in fruit and late flower. Faded and with broken short 




532 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Medina: Hondo, Pilsbry (A). Menard: Menard, E. J. Palmer 



11876 (bracts yellow) (M). Parker: , N — (M, U). Tom 



Green: San Angelo, Reverchon 3932 (M, U). Travis: Austin, 

 Pennell 10437 (U, Y). 



5. Castilleja citrina Pennell, sp. nov. 



Root perennial. Stems several, 1-3 dm. tall, arachnoid-lanate 

 with close pubescence. Leaves 3-6 cm. long, narrow, 3-ribbed, 

 trifid, with narrow falcate lobes loosely or finely cinereous-pubes- 

 cent, pale. Bracts broader, conspicuously trifid, distally lemon- 

 yellow. Sepals 18-20 mm. long, those of each side united less 

 than one third length, all obtuse, puberulent, distally lemon-yellow. 

 Corolla 18-23 mm. long; posterior lip 9-10 mm. long, deep-green 

 with pale -yellow thin margins; anterior 3^ mm. long, proximally 

 deep-green, distally flaring, pale-yellow; all lobes glandular -pubes- 

 cent, the posterior with longer hairs. Stigma about .7 mm. wide. 

 Capsule 10-12 mm. long, ovoid in outline, brown. Seeds about 

 1.2-1.5 long, oblong, alveolate-reticulate, dark-brown or blackish. 



Type, stony limestone knoll, Talpa, Coleman County, Texas, 

 collected in flower and fruit May 20, 1920, F. W. Pennell 10516; 

 in Herb. New York Botanical Garden. 



Rocky calcareous bluffs and prairies or low hills, prairies of 

 western Oklahoma, south to Coleman and Concho regions of cen- 

 tral Texas; lower Sonoran Zone (at altitudes of 1,400 to 2,400 feet). 

 Flowering in May and soon ripening fruit. 



Oklahoma. [Beckham: Doxey, observed by Pennell]. Woods: 

 Waynoka, Stevens (M, U); Whitehorse. 



Texas. Callahan: Baird, E. J. Palmer 13695 (M). Coleman: 

 Talpa, Pennell 10516 (A, H, K, M, O, T, U, Y). Howard: Big 

 Spring, Eggert (M). Tom Green: San Angelo, Pennell 10501 

 (C, J, Y), 10508 (A, H, L, M, T, U, Y). 



6. Castilleja lanata A. Gray. 



Castilleja lanata A. Gray, in Torr., Bot. Mex. Bound. 118. 1859. "Along 

 and near the Rio Grande, from Eagle Pass, etc., to El Paso; Wright (452, 

 1495), Bigelow, Parry, etc." Cotype, Wright 1495, seen in Herb. 

 Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden. 



Bracts and sepals distally red. Flowering in late March and 

 April. 



leaves. Few fruits developed. Capsule 12-14 mm. long, probably not normal. 

 No seeds seen. Inflorescence nearly whole height of plant. Sepals 20 mm. 

 long, lateral narrowing, acutish. Corolla 25-30 mm. long, narrow, galea 8-10 

 mm. long, lip 3 mm. long, thin, distal portion as long as the thickened green 

 basal portion. 



From a different formation west of the range of C. lindheimeri A. Gray, but 

 material insufficient for positive identification. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



Arid valleys, near the Rio Grande in Valverde County, Texas. 

 Extends westward through Trans-Pecos Texas; Lower Sonoran 

 zone. 



Texas. Valverde: Del Rio, Hanson 377 (Y), E. J. Palmer 

 11353 (M), Pilsbry (A). 



7. Castilleja latebracteata Pennell, sp. nov. 



Root perennial. Stems several or many, 2-4 dm. tall, finely 

 pubescent or above bearing longer hairs, some hairs gland-tipped. 

 Leaves 6-7 cm. long, oblong-oblanceolate, 3-nerved, entire, roughish- 

 puberulent or -pubescent. Bracts oblong or nearly obtriangular, 

 broadly rounded, sometimes as wide as long, distally violet-red. 

 Sepals 22-24 mm. long, those of each side united to apex, truncate- 

 rounded, pubescent, distally violet-red. Corolla 25-27 mm. long; 

 posterior lip 11-12 mm. long, pubescent dorsally, with broad thin 

 margin; anterior about 1 mm. long, incurved. Stigma .5-. 7 mm. 

 wide. Capsule at least 11 mm. long. 



Type, High Bridge of the Pecos, Valverde Co., Texas, collected 

 in flower April 27-28, 1903, Dr. H. A. Pilsbry; in Herb. Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; isotype in Herb. New York 

 Botanical Garden. 



Nearly related to C. nervata Eastw., and C. rigida Eastw., both 

 from Chihuahua. From both it differs in its wide leaves and lesser 

 amount of pubescence; also from the former in larger flowers and 

 lack of prominence of the lateral nerves or ribs of the leaf. 



Flowering in late April. 



Arid valleys, near the Rio Grande in Valverde County, Texas. 

 Lower Sonoran Zone. Known only from original collection. 



8. Castilleja coccinea (L.) Spreng. 



Bartsia coccinea L., Sp. PI. 602. 1753. "Habitat in Virginia, Noveboraco" 



Type, Clayton 293, is certainly the plant here considered. 

 Castilleja coccinea (L.) Spreng., Syst. Veg. 2: 775. 1825. 



Corolla yellowish-green, posterior lip yellowish-margined, the 

 anterior yellowish- white with thickened green base. Bracts and 

 sepals distally scarlet-red. Flowering from March to May. 



Moist sandy meadows and glades, northwestern Arkansas; in 

 Coastal Plain in moist pineland of Central Louisiana and on coast 

 prairies of southwestern Louisiana. To be expected through 

 intervening areas. Ranges from Maine to Manitoba and Kansas, 

 south to Georgia and Louisiana. 



Arkansas. Benton: , Harvey 60 (M). Carroll: Beaver, 



E. J. Palmer 5590 (M). 



Louisiana. Calcasieu: Lake Charles, Cocks (L); Welsh, E. J. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Palmer 7656 (M) [Leaves entire or nearly so, apparently approach- 

 ing C. indivisa Engelm.]. Rapides: Alexandria, Hale (L). 



9. Castilleja indivisa Engelm. 



Castilleja indivisa Engelm., in Boston Journ. Nat. Hist. 5: 255. 1845. 

 "284 . . . Prairies from Houston to the Colorado [Texas, Lindheimer]". 

 Isotype, Lindheimer, Fasc. II., 284, collected in 1844, seen in Herb. Acad- 

 emy Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Corolla greenish, the posterior lip with yellowish thin margins 

 and the anterior conspicuously thickened and green. Bracts and 

 sepals distally red. Flowering from March to April and soon 

 ripening fruit. 



Sandy loam, prairies, through the Coastal Plain of middle Texas, 

 from Hunt to Harris, Bexar and Kleburg counties. Common on 

 the coast prairie of mid-coastal Texas, inland west of the pine belt 

 to the black belt; Austroriparian Zone (at altitudes under 700 feet). 



Texas. Austin: Kenney, Pennell 10312 (P, Y); San Felipe, Pen- 

 nell 10291 (M, Y); Wallis, Pennell 10286 (A, C, H, J, K, L O, S, T, 

 U. Y). Bexar: San Antonio, Blake (Y). Brazoria: Columbia, 

 Bush 74 (M, U, Y). Brazos: Bryan, E. J. Palmer 7787 (M); 

 College Station. Colorado: Eagle Lake, E. J. Palmer 4929 (M). 

 Comal: New Braunfels, Lindheimer (M). Dallas: Dallas, Rev- 

 ersion (A, M, P, U, Y). Dewitt: Cuero, Howell 297 (U). Fort 

 Bend: Richmond, Bray 109 (T, U); Rosenberg. Harris: Houston, 

 Hall 422 (M, U, Y), Pennell 10253 (Y); Hockley. Hunt: Com- 

 merce, Warren 124 (M). Jackson: Ganado, E. J. Palmer 9222 

 (M). Kaufman: Terrell, Reverchon (M). Kleburg: Kingsville, 

 High 74 (M). McLennan: Waco, Ricker 3362 (U). Navarro: 

 Corsicana, Reyerchon 3222 (M). Robertson: Calvert, Mer- 

 rill 27 (Y). Victoria: Victoria, Tracy 9165 (M, P, T, U, Y). 

 Wharton: Hungerford, E. J. Palmer 4848 (M). 



30. PEDICULARIS Linng. 

 Pediadaris L., Sp. PL 607. 1753. 

 Type species, P. palustris L., of Europe. 



1. Pedicularis canadensis L. 



Pedicularis canadensis L., Mant. 86. 1767. "Habitat in America sep- 

 tentrionali. Kalm." Description distinctive. 



Corolla light-yellow throughout (not showing the purple frequent- 

 ly developed in northern plants of this species). (Cf. Nuttall, in 

 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 5: 179. 1834.) Flowering in April, and soon 

 ripening fruit. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



Sandy soil, oak-knolls in long-leaf pineland, and on adjacent 

 coast prairie, western Louisiana and eastern Texas. Ranges from 

 Nova Scotia to Manitoba, south to Florida and Texas. 



Louisiana. Calsasieu: DeQuincy, Pennell 10230 (A, C, H, 

 U, Y); Perkins, Pennell 10212 (H, K, L, M, T, U, Y); Lake Charles, 

 Cocks (L); Vinton. Natchitoches: Natchitoches, Cocks (L). 



Texas. Jasper (?): 30 miles northeast of Beaumont, Bray 67 

 (T, U). San Augustine: San Augustine, Crocket (U). 



Herbaria in which Specimens seen may be Consulted. ■ 



Guide-letters in the list of specimens cited with each species 



refer to the following herbaria. 



A — Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa. 



C — Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, 111. 



H — Gray Herbarium of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 



I — University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 



J — Jardin des Plantes, Paris, France 



K — Kew Gardens, Kew, England 



L — Tulane University, New Orleans, La. 



M — Missouri Botanic Garden, St. Louis, Mo. 



N — University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 



O — Agricultural Experiment Station, Stillwater, Okla. 



P — University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa. 



R — University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyo. 



S — Charleston Museum, Charleston, S. C. 



T — University of Texas, Austin, Tex. 



U — United States National Herbarium, Washington, D. C. 



Y — New York Botanical Garden, Bronx Park, New York City 



Collectors whose Specimens are cited in Lists accompanying 



Species. 



Letters, following each name, denote state from which collec- 

 tor's specimens have been seen: A- — Arkansas, L — Louisiana, 

 0— Oklahoma, T— Texas. 



Allison, Andrew (L). Butler, G. D. (0). 



Ball, C. R. (L). Butler, Mrs. J. (T). 



Barker. C. (0). Canby, W. M. (T). 



Berlandier, J. L. (T). Carleton, M. A. (0). 



Bigelow, J. M. (A, 0, T). Chandler, H. P. (T). 



Biltmore Herbarium (A). Clawson, A. B. (T). 



Blake, W. P. (T). Clemens, J. (T 7 ). 



Blankinship, J. W. (0). Cocks, R. S. (L). 



Blankinship, L. A. (0). Coville, F. V. (A). 



Bray, W. L. (T). Crawford, E. W. (T). 



Broadhead, G. C. (T). Crocket, G. L. (T). 



Buckley, S. B. (T). Croft, M. B. (T). 



Bush, B. F. (A, L, O, T). Dewey, L. H. (T). 




Diffenderfer, W. L. (T) u 

 Dixon, R. A. (T). 

 Drummond, Thomas (L, T). 

 Eggert, Henry (A, 0, T). 

 Emig, W. H. (0). 

 Engelmann, George (A). 

 Fisher, G. L. (T). 

 Foreman, Edward (A). 

 Gregg, Josiah (L). 

 Griffith, (T). 

 Groth, B. H. A. (T). 

 Hale, Josiah (L). 

 Hall, Elihu (T). 

 Hanson, H. C. (T). 

 Harvey, F. L. (A). 

 Hasse, H. E. (A). 

 Havard, Valery (T). 

 Hayes, Sutton (T). 

 Heller, A. A. & E. G. (T). 

 High, M. M. (T). 

 Hildebrandt, A. M. (T). 

 Hill, R. J. (T). 

 Hogan, George (T). 

 Hollister, M. P. (A). 

 Holstein, G. W. (T). 

 Houghton, H. W. (0). 

 Howell, A. H. (A, T). 

 Hunt, E. A. (A). 

 Jermy, Gustav (T). 

 Jermy, Julius (T). 

 Joor, J. F. (L, T). 

 Langlois, A. B. (L). 

 Larrabee, R. N. (T). 

 Lea, A. V. (T). 

 Learn, C. D. (0). 

 Leavenworth, M. C. (A, T). 

 Letterman, G. W. (A, T). 

 Lewton, F. L. (T). 

 Lincecum, Gideon (T). 

 Lindheimer, Ferdinand (7 1 ). 

 Lloyd, F. E. (L). 

 Mackensen, Bernard (T). 

 Mackenzie, K. K. (L). 

 Marcy, R. B. (0). 

 Marlott, C. L. {T). 

 Maxon, W. R. (T). 

 McAtee, W. L. (A). 

 McReynolds, A. B. (0). 

 Merrill, F. J. H. (7 1 ). 

 Mexican Boundary Survey 



(Parry, Bigelow, Wright & Schott). 

 Meyer, Emanuel (T). 

 Milhgan, Mrs. J. M. (T). 

 Moseley, E. L. (L). 



Myers, S. E. (0). 

 Nash, Mrs. M. L. (T). 

 Nealley, G. C. (T). 

 Neaves, Clara (0). 

 Nuttall, Thomas (0)'. 

 Olive, E. W. (O). 

 Oyster, J. H. (0). 

 Pace, Lula (T). 

 Palmer, Edward (0, T). 

 Palmer, E. J. (A, L, 0, T). 

 Pammel, L. H. (T). 

 Parry, C. C. (T). 

 Peck, C. (L). 



Pennell F. W. (A, L, 0, T). 

 Pilsbry, H. A. (A, 0, T). 

 Pitcher, Zina (A). 

 Plank, E. N. (A, L, T). 

 Pringle, C. G. (T). 

 Reverchon, Julien (T). 

 Ricker, P. L. (T). 

 Robin, C. C. (L) u 

 Romer, (T). » 

 Rose, J. N. (T). 

 Ruth, Albert (T). 

 Schott, Arthur (T). 

 Schulz, E. D. (T). 

 Seaman, W. H. (T). 

 Sheldon, C. S. (0). 

 Shepherd, T. M. (T). 

 Smith, J. D. (L). 

 Stanfield, S. W. (T). 

 Stevens, G. W. (0). 

 Tharp, B. C. (T). 

 Thurber, George (T). 

 Thuron, F. W. (T). 

 Tracy, S. M. (L, T). 

 Trelease, WiHiam (L). 

 Tweedy, Frank (T). 

 Tyler, F. J. (T). 

 Vinzent, (T). 

 Ward, L. F. (0, T) 

 Warren, W. H. (T). 

 Waugh, F. A. (0). 

 Wells, B. W. (A). 

 White, M. J. (T). 

 White, P. J. (0). 

 Williamson, C. S. (A, T). 

 Wolf, (T). 



Woodhouse, S. W. (0). 

 Wright, Charles (T). 

 Wurzlow, E. C. (L). 

 Wurzlow, H. (T). 

 York, H. H. (T). 

 Young, M. S. (T). 



11 Collector of the type of a species from this area, but specimens not seen. 



12 Traveled in Louisiana and described many plants seen, but not known to 

 have collected specimens. 




ABSTRACTS OF THE MINUTES OF THE PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA 



1921 



January 18. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL. D., in the Chair. 



Eighty-two persons present. 



The deaths of Edward J. Nolan, Librarian and Recording Secre- 

 tary Emeritus, and Joseph G. Rosengarten, were announced. 



Dr. William E. Hughes made a communication entitled: "Across 

 the Peruvian Andes to the Amazon." (No abstract.) 



The Council reported the appointment by the President of the 

 following Committees: On Finance — Effingham B. Morris, Chair- 

 man, George L. Harrison, Jr., Morgan Hebard, Walter Horstmann, 

 and the Treasurer, George Vaux, Jr. On Publications — Henry 

 Skinner, Chairman, Milton J. Greenman, Witmer Stone, Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, William J. Fox. On Library — Henry Tucker, Chair- 

 man, F. J. Keeley, T. Chalkley Palmer, Witmer Stone, Spencer 

 Trotter. On Instruction — Henry Skinner, Chairman, Charles Mor- 

 ris, Henry A. Pilsbry, James A. G. Rehn. 



William Randolph Taylor, C. Montague Cooke, Stephen Fuguet, 

 Samuel Copeland Palmer, and Lambert Cadwalader, were elected 

 members. 



February 15. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A. M., LL. D., in the Chair. 



One hundred and forty-four persons present. 



The deaths of George W. Carpenter, and James Gibbons Huneker, 

 were announced. 



Mr. Arthur H. Fisher made a communication entitled: "An 

 Animated Photographic Journey through the Philadelphia Zoo- 

 logical Gardens." (No abstract.) 



John Wagner, and Henry Frazer Harris, were elected members. 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following 

 papers for publication: 



(537) 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



"Two Week's Collecting in Yellowstone National Park," by- 

 Annette M. Braun. 



"Some Faunal Remains from the Trias of York County, Penn- 

 sylvania," by H. E. Wanner. 



" New or Little-known Crane-flies from the Amazonian Region, " 

 by Charles P. Alexander. 



March 15. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Sixty-four persons present. 



The deaths of John H. McFadden, Daniel Baugh, and Steward- 

 son Brown, were announced. 



Mr. James A. G. Rehn made a communication entitled: "The 

 Academy Colombian Expedition of 1920." (No abstract.) 



Samuel S. Fels was elected a member. 



April 19. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



The death of James D. Winsor was announced. 



Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication entitled: "A 

 Collecting Trip to the Sierra La Sal, Utah." (No abstract.) 



Frederick Wistar Morris, Jr., was elected a member. 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the follow- 

 ing papers for the Proceedings: 



" Scrophulariaceae of the West Gulf States," by Francis W. 

 Pennsll. 



"Desilicated Granitic Pegmatites," by Samuel G. Gordon. 



"South Ameiican Blattidae from the Museum National d'His- 

 torie Naturelle, Paris, France," by Morgan Hebard. 



"Revision of W. M. Gabb's Teriary Mollusca of Santo Domingo, " 

 by Henry A. Filsbiy." 



November 15. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



The deaths of Hiram Milliken Hiller and Miss Emma Walter 

 were announced. 



Mr. J. Fletcher Street made a communication entitled: "A 

 Study of the Wild Bird Life of the New Jersey Coast, "(No abstract). 



Nominations for Officers, Councillors, and members of the Com- 

 mittee on Accounts for the ensuing year were made. 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 539 



The following were elected members: T. Ellis Barnes, R. Dale 

 Benson, Jr., Mrs. Andrew Alexander Blair, Joseph Hall Bodine, 

 Mrs. Edward Bok, Dr. John B. Carson, John D. Carter, Wilson 

 Catherwood, Charles D. Clark, Alexander Brown Coxe, Mrs. 

 James H. R. Cromwell, George K. Crozer, Jr., Edwin S. Dixon Jr., 

 Archibald M. L. duPont, E. Paul duPont, Thomas Langdon 

 Elwyn, William Newbold Ely, Mrs. Stanley G. Flagg, Jr., C. F. 

 Fox, Mrs .Eva. B. Gadsby, Thomas S. Gates, John Gilbert, George 

 L. Harrison, Mrs. Charles W. Henry, John C. Holinger, Wharton 

 Huber, Charles F. Jenkins, Dr. Victor A. Loeb, C. Christopher 

 Morris, Dr. Francis W. Pennell, Thomas Robins, John W. Schell, 

 Miss Hepsey Norris Wells, Dr. D. H. Wenrich, Dr. Arthur Dewitt 

 Whedon, Walter Wheeler. 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the follow- 

 ing papers for the Proceedings: 



"The Chromite Deposits of the State Line Serpentines," by 

 Samuel G. Gordon. 



"Notes on Hemibranchiate and Lophobranchiate Fishes," by 

 Henry W. Fowler. 



"Notes on the Radula of the Helicinidae, " by H. Burrington 

 Baker. 



"Plant Indicators of Soil Types," by Arthur Pierson Kelley. 



"Notes on the Mollusks of the Colorado Desert, I," by S. Still- 

 man Berry. 



"Some Sharks' Teeth from the California Pliocene," by David 

 Starr Jordon. 



December 20. 



The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



Officers, Councillors, and members of the Committee on Accounts 

 were elected for the ensuing year as follows: 



President John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D. 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D. 



Recording Secretary James A. G. Rehn. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Spencer Trotter, M.D. 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Part III 



Curators Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc. D. 



Henry Tucker, M.D. 



George Spencer Morris. 

 Councillors to serve three. ..Philip P. Calvert., Ph. D. 

 Years : F. J. Keeley. 



Walter Horstmann. 



T. Chalkley Palmer. 

 Councillor to fill unexpired 

 term of George Spencer Mor- 

 ris (resigned) Morgan Hebard. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris. 



John G. Rothermel. 



Samuel N. Rhoads. 



Charles S. Stewart, M.D. 



Walter Horstmann. 

 Annual Reports were received from the Secretary, Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, Librarian, Curators, Treasurer, auditors of the 

 Treasurer's accounts, Treasurer of the "Manual of Conchology, " 

 Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections, and from the follow- 

 ing sections: Biological and Microscopical, Entomological, Bo- 

 tanical, Ornithological, Mineralogical and Geological. 



The following were elected members: Miss Alice O. Albertson, 

 Dr. Joseph L. T. Appleton, Jr., Dr. Clement Biddle, Malcolm H. 

 Bissell, Mrs. Samuel Chew, Clarence M. Clark, Mrs. William 

 Dreen, Mrs. G. W. C. Drexel, Henry S. Drinker, Jr., Louis H. 

 Eisenlohr, Van Horn Ely, Arthur F. Hagar, Henry Reed Hatfield, 

 Mrs. Frederick Hemsley, Mrs. Charles Willing Huber, John F. 

 Huneker, Dr. Robert H. Hutchison, Dr. Peter M. Keating, Dr. 

 Edward C. Kirk, Gustavus W. Knowles, Arthur H. Lea, Charles M. 

 Lea, Miss Nina Lea, Howard W. Lewis, M. Albert Linton, Miss 

 Caroline Lippincott, Mrs. J. Bertram Lippincott, Horatio Gates 

 Lloyd, Mrs. Horatio Gates Lloyd, Malcolm Lloyd, Jr., Dr. Ed- 

 ward Lodholz, Charles H. Ludington, Percy C. Madeira, Jr., Mrs. 

 Arthur V. Meigs, William R. Mercer, Miss Susan S. Miles, J. 

 Clark Moore, Jr., Arthur E. Newbold, Jr., William Peterson 

 Newhall, Dr. Ralph Pemberton, George L. Pennock, John M. 

 Phillips, Dr. George Morris Piersol, W. S. Pilling, Mrs. Horace 

 Miles Potts, G. Colesberry Purves, Mrs. Evan Randolph, Samuel 

 Rea, Miss Marion Reilly, Dr. David Riesman, Mrs. Ernestine 




1921] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 541 



M. Schell, Mrs. E. O. Shakespeare, S. F. Sharpless, Miss Caroline 

 Sinkler, Alfred G. B. Steel, Hon. Mayer Sulzberger, Nicolas 

 Thouron, Dr. B. M. Underhill, Daniel B. Wentz, Mrs. William 

 D. Winsor, Clement B. Wood, Mrs. George Woodward. Associate 

 Mem er: Earl L. Polle (Reading, Pa.). Junior Members: Frank- 

 lin P6 Cook, John T. Emlen, Jr., William P. Harrington, Charles 

 Eliot . Underdo wn. 



! 




542 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part III 



INDEX TO GENERA AND SPECIES DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1921 



New species and genera are indicated by heavy-faced type. 



Acanthopteroctetes 22 



tripunctata 23 



Aclis (Hebetaclis) alta 389 



(Amblyspira) bartschiana 389 



Acrocercops astericola 18 



Acteocina canaliculata 310 



candei 310 



recta 310 



subbullata 310 



wetherilli 310 



Acteon punctostriatus 310 



subtornatilis 310 



Actinolite 179, 186, 187, 192 



Afzelia cassioides 508 



havardii 507 



pectinata 507 



texana 507 



Agalinis aspera 516 



caddoensis 519 



edwardsiana 522 



edwardsiana glabra 523 



fascicula 518 



gattingeri 521 



heterophylla 515 



homalantha 525 



oligophylla 520 



pinetorum 517 



pulchella 519 



purpurea 517 



spiciflora 516 



strictifolia 520 



tenuif olia 523 



t. leucanthera 524 



t. macrophylla 524 



t. parviflora 525 



viridis 521 



Agonopteryx nivalis 10 



rosaciliella 10 



Alaba maoensis 376 



Alabina angustior 376 



canaliculata 375 



Alachista agilis 16 



Albite 177, 184, 183, 192 



Albitite 169, 170, 173 180 



Allanite 184, 185, 192 



Almandite 192 



Amauropsis altispira 387 



burnsii meridionalis 387 



gupnyi 386 



Amphibole 186 



Amusium papyraceum 413 



Anacampsis niveopulvella 8 



paltodoriella 8 



Anachis exilis 350 



gracilicostata 350 



(?) quadrata 350 



Anaplecta bivittata 222 



maronensis 194 



pulchella 195 



xanthopeltis 222 



Andesine 170, 171, 189 



Anomia gabbi 409 



sp 409 



Anorthite 192 



Anthophyllite 185, 191 



Antigorite 171 



Apatite 185, 192 



Apeltes quadracus 438 



Aplite 171 



Aragonite 186, 192 



Area bonaczyi 403 



chiriquiensis.. 405 



chiriquiensis websteri 406 



(Scapharca) coccopleura 406 



(Scapharca) copiosa 403 



cyclica 407 



(Scapharca) devexa 404 



dolaticosta 406 



grandis 404 



idiodon 408 



inaequilateralis 403 



(Scapharca) intumulata 404 



maoica 407 



multilineata 407 



(Scapharca) pennelli 403 



perfaceta 407 



pomponiana 407 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



543 



(Scapharca) proletaria 404 



(Scapharca) sobrina 403 



(Argina) tolepia 406 



t. crassicardinis... 407 



t. saxea 406 



fc. scapularis 407 



umbonata 403 



Architectonica quadriseriata 379 



Argyresthia oreasella 14 



Aristotelia rubidella :.. 6 



Astasia mobilis 152 



Astraea domingensis 396 



Atarba megaphallus 59 



Atlanta cordiformis 315 



peronii 315 



rotundata 314 



Atrina sp 408 



Atys (Aliculastrum) caribaea 313 



cinctorii 311 



sulculorum 311 



Aulostomus chinensis 439 



maculatus 439 



Aureolaria caiycosa 512 



dispersa 51 1 



flava macrantha 511 



grandiflora 510 



g. cinerea 510 



g.serrata 511 



pectinata 509 



virginica 510 



Aurinia striata 339 



Beryl 192 



Bicoeca exilis 117 



Biotite 170-172, 177-182, 185, 



191, 192 



Bittium asperoides 375 



yaquense 375 



Blaberus fraternus 290 



giganteus 213 



Blaptica dubia 290 



interior 286 



Blatta oriental's 285 



Blatella germanica 264 



Borkhausenia haydenella 12 



Borsonia recurvirostris 326 



(Paraborsonia) varicosa 325 



Brachycola tubsrculata 252 



Brachypremna basilica 92 



breviventris 92 



Candida '. 91 



dispellens 92 



uniformis 92 



williamsoni 92 



Bramia minnieri 474 



Brookite 186, 192 



Buchnera americana 527 



elongata obtusa 528 



Bullaria paupercula '. 313 



solida 313 



Bursa amphitrites 360 



bifoniopsis 360 



crassa proavus 360 



Cadulus colobus 401 



depressicoliis 401 



elegantissimus 401 



phenax 400 



Caecum anellifer 378 



(Meioceras) constrictum 378 



Calcite 186 



Calliostoma leve 396 



Calyptraea centralis.. 385 



Cancellaria barretti 332 



epistomifera 333 



gabbiana 334 



ellipsis 333 



guppyi 333 



(Trigonostoma) insularis 334 



larvescens 333 



rowelli 333 



Candona rogersi 28 



Capulus inornatus 384 



Cardium (Trachycardium) domin- 



icanum 420 



(Trachycardium) domincerse 421 



(Trigoniocardia) hai tense 421 



(Laevicardium) serratum 421 



tintinnabularum 421 



(Laevicardium) venustum .... 421 



Cariblatta mesembrina 258 



Cassis inflata monilifera 361 



sulcifera 360 



(Cypraecassis) testiculus 361 



Castilleja citrina 532 



coccinea 533 



indivisa : 534 



labiata 530 



lanata 532 



latebracteata 533 



lindheimeri 531 



purpurea , 531 



sessiliflora 530 



Centriscops humerosus 440 



Centriscus scutatus 441 



strigatus 441 



Ceratocheilus americanum 91 



Cerithium dominicense 370 



(obesum?) gurabense 372 



microlineatum 369 



obesum 371 



obesum harrisi 372 



obesum ventricosior 371 



simplex 372 



turriculum 370 



uniseriale 370 



(?) venustum 373 



Ceuthobia 292 



fulvella 295 




544 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part III 



lepta 293 



Ceuthobiella 246 



Chabazite 188, 192 



Chalceopla 20 



cockerelli 21 



itoniella 21 



ovata 21 



Chalcopyrite 186 



Chama chipolana 416 



involuta 416 



tampaensis 416 



Chione guppyana 423 



(Lirophora) paphia 423 



socia 423 



santodomingensis 423 



Chlorite 185, 187, 191 



Choreutis balsamorrhizella 14 



caliginosa 13 



occidentella 14 



pernivalis 12 



Chorisoneura barticae 219 



gracilis 252 



guianae 217 



lata 217 



nigrifrons 252 



perlucida 251 



Chromite .....172, 186, 449-454 



Chrysamoeba radians 132 



Chrysopyxis bipes 138 



Circulus domingensis 397 



pentagona 397 



Clathurella amica 323 



gracilis 323 



paupercula 323 



Clava plebeia 373 



Clavatula labiata 324 



Coleophora albicostella 14 



brunneipennis 15 



crinita 15 



tenuis 14 



Colerainite 192 



Collinsja violacea 499 



Columbella inflata 350 



Conus aratus 329 



bonaczyi 331 



catenatus 328 



cercadensis 332 



consobrinus 330 



consobrinus ultimus 330 



domingensis 327 



furvoides 328 



furvoides brachys 328 



gabbi 332 



gaza 330 



haytensis 326 



haytensis politispira 327 



imitator 327 



larvatus 332 



longitudinalis 330 



maculospira 330 



mus 



planiliratus 



proteus. 



proteus humerosus 

 pseudomarginatus 



recognitus 



simplicissimus 



strombiformis 



stenostoms 



symmetricus 



trisculptus .-. 



xenicus 



yaquensis 



Coralliophila abbreviata 

 Corbula dominicensis 



knoxiana fossilis 



sencea 



vieta 



(Bothrocorbula) viminea ........ 



Corundophilite 186, 



Corundum 170-172, 182-188, 191, 

 Corythoichthys albirostris 



conspicillatus 



fasciatus 



Crassitellites (Crassinella) dolatus 



(Crassinella) guppyi radiata .. 



(Crassinella) microdelta 



reevei 



Crenella diuturna 



rota 



Crepidula plana 



Crepitacella cepula 



Crucibulum auricula 



auricula spinosum 



striatum 



Cryptolabis (Cryptolabis) tenui- 



ncicta 



Cryptomonas ovata 



Ctenolimnophila 



bivena 



decisa 



Cuspidria gabbi 



ornatior 



Cyclinella cyclica domingensis 



ovumlacerta 



Cymatium domingense 



pileare 



praefemorale 



Cymia henekeni 



henekeni tectiformis 



Cyphophora tricristatella 



Cypraea campbelliana 



cinerea 



dominicensis 



henekeni 



isabella 



raymondrobertsi 



spurca 



spurcoides 



331 

 329 

 331 

 332 

 330 

 327 

 332 

 330 

 327 

 328 

 330 

 328 

 331 

 354 

 427 

 427 

 427 

 427 

 428 

 192 

 192 

 442 

 442 

 442 

 415 

 415 

 415 

 415 

 414 

 414 

 385 

 380 

 385 

 385 

 385 



73 



144 

 61 

 61 

 62 

 415 

 414 

 424 

 311 

 356 

 356 

 356 

 355 

 355 

 5 

 365 

 364 

 364 

 365 

 364 

 365 

 365 

 365 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



545 



Cythara elevata 323 



elongata 323 



heptagona 322 



polygona 322 



Cytherea (Ventricola) blandiana .. 424 



(Antigona) tarquina 423 



Damourite 183, 192 



Dasistoma macrophylla 505 



Dasyblatta 224 



chopardi 257 



thaumasia 225 



Dentalium callioglyptum 399 



cossmannianum 399 



dissimile 400 



d. ponderosum 400 



eboreum 400 



gabbi 400 



haytense 400 



praecursor 400 



pyrum 400 



sagittarii 400 



tryoni 399 



Diacria bisulcata 309 



Diadora alternata henekeni 399 



Diaspore 183, 186, 188, 192 



Dicranomyia acuminata 51 



amazonica 49 



capnora 47 



egae 49 



eiseni 49 



fumosa 52 



napoensis 50 



optabilis 48 



rapax 50 



Dimorpha monomastix ,. 116 



tetramastix 110 



Dimya grandis 413 



Diotrepha atribasis '. 57 



fumicosta 58 



Diplodon borealis 33 



carolus-simpsoni 34 



pennsylvanicus 32 



wanneri 34 



yorkensis 35 



Diplodonta (Sphaerella) capu- 



loides 419 



dedecotis 418 



(Phlyctiderma) gabbi 418 



Distorsio constrictus simillimus.... *356 



Divaricella proletaria 418 



Donax aequalis 426 



Doryrhamphinarum brachyurum.. 442 



lineatum 441 



Dosinia azuana 424 



Drillia callistopleura 321 



callistura 321 



consors 319 



elocata 318 



esculenta 321 



foveolata 321 



fusiformis 318 



gatunensis alia 319 



henekeni 318 



hexapleura 321 



ischnatracta 321 



jamaicensis 320 



lissotropis dorsuosa 321 



macilenta rectaxis 319 



mimula 321 



orthopleura 321 



parkeri 321 



.scala 321 



sororcula 318 



squamosa 320 



subgibbosa 318 



venusta 320 



winchesterae 318 



Dunite . 170, 187, 191 



Echinochama yaquensis trachy- 



derma 416 



Elachista aurocristata 16 



stramineola 16 



Elephantomyia supernumeraria .... 60 



Enicostoma quinquecristata 11 



Enstatite 191 



Entelurus aequoreus 441 



Epicallima dimidiella 12 



quadrimaculata 12 



Epidote 192 



Epilampra abdomen-nigrum 206 



azteca 206 



berlandi 283 



conspersa 206 



grisea 206 



heusseriana 281 



maculicollis 206 



\erticalis 240 



Epiphragma fabricii 63 



varia 63 



Epitonium amosbrowni 388 



amplum 388 



minutissimum 388 



santodominganum 388 



Eriocera amazonicola 68 



macrocera 68 



Erioptera (ErioDtera) annulipes .. 69 



(Erioptera) apicialba 70 



(Mesocyphona) bicinctipes .... 71 



(Erioptera) cladophora 69 



(Mesocyphona) diffusa 71 



(Mesocyphona) in variegata .. 71 



(Erioptera) micromyia 69 



(Mesocyphhona) parva brasil- 



iensis 70 



Estheria ovata 28 



Ethmia albisti igella 12 



Eubiaberus argentinus 290 



biolleyi , 213 



Eucalia inconstans 438 



Eudromiella aglaia 255 




546 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Part III 



Euglena pseudomermis 168 



Euphyllite 183, 192 



Euphyllodromia chopardi 202 



literata 201 



Euthyrrapha pacifica 251 



Fasciolaria kempi 346 



semistriata 346 



Feldspar 186, 189 



Fistularia petimba 439 



tabacaria 438 



Fusinus haitensis 347 



henekeni 347 



Gasterosteus aculeatus 437 



a. cataphractus 438 



Gastrotokeus biaculeatus 441 



Gelechia abradescens 9 



alternatella 10 



conspersa 9 



lugubrella 8 



metallica 9 



unifasciella 9 



versutella 9 



Geranomyia bicincta 44 



bicincta angusticincta 45 



cinereinota 46 



pilipes 45 



recondita 42 



separata 45 



xanthoplaca 43 



Gladkaite 170 



Globifera umbrosa 478 



Glycymeris acuticostatus 408 



approximans 408 



diffidentiae 408 



santodomingensis 408 



Glyphostoma dentiferum 324 



Gnophomyia axillaris 75 



bisecta 76 



leucoplaca 76 



nigrina 75 



osten-sackeni 76 



rubicundula 74 



subhyalina 75 



Gnorimoschema contraria 8 



erigeronella 7 



ochreostrigella 9 



triocellella 7 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) acumin- 

 ata 77 



(Lieponeura) amazona 77 



(Lieponeura) bispinosa 82 



(Leiponeura) crepuscula 82 



(Leiponeura) ctenophora 81 



(Leiponeura) falcifer 79 



(Leiponeura) machaeria 79 



(Progonomyia) paraensis 77 



(Leiponeura) phoroctenia 80 



(Leiponeura) pleuralis 77 



(Leiponeura) spicata 83 



Gracilaria acerifoliella 18 



alnivorella 18 



Granulite 170, 172 



Gratiola flava 472 



gracilis 472 



neglecta 472 



pilosa 470 



ramosa drummondi 471 



virginiana ..., 473 



Greya subalba 21 



Hamincea granosa 313 



Harpa americana 337 



Hedaia yersiniana 240 



Hematite 186 



Hemisinus truncatus 379 



Hippocampus abdominalis 446 



ecuadorensis 446 



hippocampus 445 



hudsonius 445 



ingens 446 



insdonis 446 



kuda 446 



punctulatus 446 



zosterae 446 



Hipponyx otiosa 384 



pilosa 384 



Histiona campanula 120 



Holocompsa nitidula 217, 251 



Hormetica 253 



ventralis 253 



Hornblende 177, 186, 192 



Hyalobryon ramosum 140 



Hydranthelum egense 475 



Hydrotida caroliniana 474 



Hypercompsa cynipsoides 251 



Hyporhicnoda maronensis 207 



Ilmenite 186, 192 



Ischnoptera argentina „ 270 



bilunata 272 



carcarana 267 



icano 276 



ignobilis 265 



litostylata 272 



saussurei 274 



Ilysanthes dubia 476 



inaequalis 477 



Jefferisite 180, 183, 192 



Kaolinite 192 



Labiosa (Raeta) gabbi 427 



Labradorite 189, 192 



Lampronia obscuromaculata 20 



piperella \ 20 



politelia 19 



quieta 19 



vatiata 20 



Lanta 295 



peniculiger 298 



scotia 296 



Latindia dohrniana 216 



Latirofusus exilis 346 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



547 



Latirus angustatus 346 



brevicaudatus santodomingen- 



sis 345 



elongatus 345 



fusiformis 345 



infundibulum 345 



Lecteria armillaris 91 



Leda extricata 402 



Leptonotus tristriatus 444 



Leucophaea maderae 241 



Leucophyllum texanum 481 



Leucospora multifida 478 



Leucozonia rhomboidea 345 



Leuropeltis 198 



atopa 200 



Limacina inflata 308 



Limnophila diversipes 62 



(Limnophilella) epihragmoides 62 



Limonite 192 



Limopsis ovalis 402 



Linaria canadensis 501 



canadensis texana 502 



linaria 503 



Liosilpha 235 



pumicata 237 



Lithocolletis oregonsis 18 



Lithophaga antillarum 414 



Litoblatta 237 



brasiliensis 238, 264 



Lucina bulla 417 



janus 417 



mauryae 417 



Lyria pidchella 338 



soror : 338 



Marcocallista (Chionella) macu- 



lata 422 



(Chionella) planivieta 422 



Macrorhamphosus scolopax 440 



scolopax elevatus 440 



Mactra dariensis 427 



Macuillamia rotundifolia 475 



Magnetite 172, 179, 185 



MalaneJa astuta 349 



Malea camura 363 



elliptica 363 



goliath 363 



Mangilia dominicensis 322 



Margarite 182, 183, 186, 188, 192 



Marginella amina 338 



coniformis 337 



cercadensis 338 



domingoensis 338 



latissima 338 



nugax 337 



sowerbyi 337 



Martesia sanctipauli 428 



Maurandya antirrhiniflora 500 



Mecardonia acuminata 468 



peduncularis 469 



Megistocera longipennis 94 



Melanella gabbiana 394 



Melestora 250 



argentina 299 



Melongena (?) antillarum 347 



consors 347 



orthacantha 348 



Metis chipolana 425 



efferta 425 



postrema 426 



Metula cancellata '.. 349 



Metulella dominicensis 352 



fusiformis : 352 



venusta 352 



Micrognathus jonesi 442 



Microtipula amazonica 97 



Mimulus alatus 480 



glabratus 479 



ringens 480 



Minerva saurodosus 455 



Mitra barbadensis 341 



granulosa 340 



henekeni 339 



longa 339 



mesolia 341 



rudis 340 



Modiolaria sp 414 



Modiolus sp 414 



Modulus sp 376 



Molophilus (Eumolophilus) pen- 



nipes 72 



(Eumolophilus) thaumasto- 



podus 72 



Molybdenite 177, 192 



Mompha unifasciella 6 



Monastria biguttata 246 



Morum domingense 363 



Murex (Chicoreus) brevifrons 352 



domingensis 353 



recurvirostris 353 



rufus compactus 352 



(Pteropurpura) textilis 353 



yaquensis 353 



Muricidea striata 354 



Muscovite 179, 182, 192 



Mycetopoda diluculi 36 



Nassaria corrugata 348 



Natica canrena 386 



sulcata 386 



youngi 386 



Neaeromya quadrata 419 



Neoblatella adspersicollis 198, 232 



berlandi 234 



conspersa 260 



eudromielloides 232 



janeirae 226 



platystylata 198, 229 



puenlis 262 



tapenagae 262 



Nerophis maculatus 441 



Niso grandis 394 




548 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part III 



minuta 394 



Nucula tenuisculpta 401 



(Acila) tuberculata 401 



Nyctibora holosericea 205 



sericea 239, 281 



Odostomia (Odostomidea) bart- 



schiana 393 



(Eulimastoma) bathyraphe .. 393 

 (Goniodostoma) circumvincta 393 

 (Parthenina?) cyclocephala .. 393 



(Chrysallida) dulcis 394 



(Odostomia) ingloria 392 



(Odostomidea) mogindo 393 



myrmecoon 392 



(Eulimastoma) pyrgulopsis .... 392 



santodomingensis 392 



(Goniodostoma) superans 393 



(Evalea?) vexator 393 



Oligoclase....... 173, 179, 184-189, 192 



Oliva brevispira 335 



cylindrica 335 



dimidiata 336 



gradata 335 



proavia 335 



reticularis 334 



Olivella floralia 336 



mutica 336 



muticoides 336 



nivea 337 



rosalina 337 



Orimarga pallidibasis 56 



Orthaulax inornatus 368 



inornatus altilis 369 



Orthoclase 172 



Ostrea bolus 409 



cahobasensis 409 



frons 409 



haiten&is 409 



vaughani insularis 409 



Otophylla auriculata 526 



densiflora 527 



Oulopteryx. 214 



dascilloides 215 



meliponarum 247 



Ozodicera (Ozodicera) attenuata.. 96 



(Ozodicera) bispinifer 96 



(Ozodicera) extensa 95 



(Ozodicera) noctivagans 95 



(Dihexaclonus) triguttata 94 



Pahchlora cubensis 208, 241 



prasina 241 



thalassina 285 



Pandora inconspicua 414 



Parahormetica bilobata 254 



tumulosa 254, 299 



Parapegasus natans 441 



Paratropesa collaris 84 



Partropes elegans 206 



Pecten augusticostatus 412 



(Amusium?) correctus 413 



. eccentricus 412 



inaequalis 412 



interlineatus 411 



ischnon 413 



oxygonum 411 



plurinominis 411 



scissuratus 411 



soror 410 



thetidis 410 



uselmae 412 



Pedicularis canadensis 534 



Pegmatites 169-192 



Penstemon albidus 487 



ambiguus 497 



angustifolius 486 



arkansanus 493 



a. pubescens 494 



baccharifolius 498 



buckleyi 486 



cobaea 489 



c. purpureus 490 



digitalis 491 



fendleri 487 



grandiflorus 486 



guadalupensis 488 



multicaulis 494 



murrayanus 485 



pauciflorus 495 



penstemon 492 



tenuis 492 



triflorus 488 



tubiflorus 491 



Penthoptera batesi 67 



Peridotite 170, 182, 187, 191 



Periplaneta americana 241 



brunnea 208, 285 



Petasodes mouffeti 245 



Phacoides (Lucinisca) muricatus.. 417 



perplexus 416 



(Parvilucina) pupulus 417 



riocanensis 416 



(Parvilucina) yaquensis 417 



Phasianella affinis 396 



Phoraspis brachytaenia 239 



flavipes 239 



picta 240 



Phortioeca nimbata 212 



Phos (Strogylocera) costatus 349 



elegans 349 



gabbi 349 



guppyi 349 



semicostatus 348 



Phyllopteryx fohatus 445 



Pitar (Lamelliconcha) acuticosta- 



tus 422 



(Hyphantosoma) carbaseus.... 422 

 tryonianus 422 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



549 



Plagiaplite 170 



Plagioclase 172, 188, 191 



Plicatula gibbosa 413 



Plochelaea crassilabrum 341 



gabbi 342 



Plumasite 170, 182-189 



Plutella vanella 14 



Polinices mamillaris 386 



Polymera conjuncta 66 



conjunctoides 66 



crystalloptera 67 



hirticornis 66 



niveitarsis 67 



obscura 66 



parishi 66 



pleuralis 66 



superba 67 



thoracica 66 



Potamides caobassensis 374 



dentilabris 374 



gastrodon 374 



haitensis 373 



prismaticus 373 



suprasulcatus 373 



Psacaphora deceptella 5 



sexstrigella 5 



Psaronius brevitibia 65 



mancus 64 



obscurus 63 



pallipes 63 



trianguliferus 63 



pygmaeus 63 



Pseudischnoptera lineata 204 



rhabdota 278 



Pseudomops neglecta 278 



Pteria inornata 408 



Pteridomonas scherffeli 105 



Pungitius pungitius 437 



Pustularia gabbiana 366 



Pycnoscelus surinamenisis 241 



Pyramidella canaliculata 390 



forulata famelica 391 



(Longchaeus) jamaicensis 390 



(Triptychus) nivea 390 



Pyrite 186, 192 



Pyroxenite 182, 187, 191 



Pyrula carbasea :.. 364 



pilsbryi 364 



Quartz 170, 172, 186-192 



Retusa biforis 311 



sulcata fossilis 311 



Rhamphidia albitarsis 56 



mirabilis 55 



miranda 54 



sanguinolenta 55 



uniformis 56 



Rhipidia (Arhipidia) annulicornis 54 



domestica amazonensis 54 



(Arhipidia) d. angustifrons .... 54 



(Rhipidia) perarmata 52 



(Conorhipidia) punctipennis .. 54 



Rhodolite 188, 192 



Rictaxis oryza 310 



Ringicula semilimata 313 



Rissoa epulata. 384 



(Alvania) proavita 384 



Rissoina bryerea 384 



(Zebina) laevigata 382 



minuta 383 



Rocellaria sp 428 



Rutile 184, 185, 186, 192 



Salpingoeca lepidula 127 



polygonatum 123 



Saxonite 184, 185, 187 



Schizopilia fissicollis 208 



Schwalbea australis 528 



Sciablatta poecila 196 



Scobinella magnifica 325 



tristis 325 



Sconsia laevigata 361 



Scrophularia marilandica 499 



occidentalis 498 



Scythris eboracensis 19 



impositella 19 



magnatella 19 



Semele delimata 425 



firma 425 



Serpulorbis papulosus 376 



Sigmatomera amazonica 91 



Siliqua subaequalis 426 



Sillimanite 192 



Simaethis fabric iana alpinella 12 



Smaragdia viridis 396 



Smaragdite 186, 188 



Solariella (?) tricarinata 397 



Solenognathus guntheri 445 



Sophronanthe hispida 473 



Sphecophila polybiarum 216 



Spinachia spinachia 437 



Spinel 192 



Spirorbis inexpectatus 36 



Spondylus bostrychites 413 



gumanomocon 413 



Sportella lioconcha 419 



Stemodia schottii 476 



tomentosa 476 



Stigmatophora argus 444 



Strigilla pisiformis 426 



Strombiformis ischnon 395 



praelubrica 395 



sarissiformis 394 



stimulus 395 



Stiombina caribaea 350 



caribaea micra 351 



cyphonotus 351 



haitensis 351 



politissima 351 



prisma 351 



Strombinella acuformis 351 



Strombus ambiguus 367 



ambiguus bifrons 367 




550 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Part III 



dominator 366 



galliformis 366 



haitensis 366 



proximus 367 



p. pugiloides : 367 



Styliola sulcifera 309 



Supella supellectilium 226 



Surcula humerosa 317 



jacquensis 317 



longicaudata 317 



Syngnathus acus 444 



californiensis 443 



elucens 443 



fuscus 443 



louisianae 444 



mackayi 443 



matterni 442 



pelagicus 443 



pellegrini 444 



schlegelii 443 



spicifer 442 



Tanypremna longipes 93 



Tegula viridula 396 



Teinostoma depressum 398 



vitreum 399 



Tellina alternata 424 



(Merisca) errati 425 



(Cyclotellina) fausta 425 



minuta 424 



(Eurytellina) n. sp 424 



(Moerella) simpsoni ".. 425 



sp 424 



Telphusa praefixa 6 



Terebra baculiformis 316 



dislocata 316 



gatunensis 316 



hitia 316 



Teredo (Kuphus) incrassata 428 



sp 428 



Teucholabis anthracina 86 



decora 84 



jocosa 86 



lugubris 85 



malanocephala 85 



mendax 85 



omissinervis 86 



parishi 87 



persimilis 87 



pulchella 84 



Thais santodomingensis 354 



Tinagma gigantea 17 



pulvirilinea 17 



Tipula armatipennis nappoensis. ... 98 



bezziana 99 



diacanthos 97 



effeta 100 



parishi 97 



plumbeithorax 101 



Torinia rotundata 379 



Tourmaline 177, 183-188, 191, 192 



Toxorhina brasiliensis 90 



centralis 91 



flavida 91 



meridionalis 91 



Trentepohlia (Paramongoma) ex- 



tensa 87 



(Paramongoma) femorata 88 



(Paramongoma) flavilla 89 



(Paramongoma) fuscipes 88 



(Paramongoma) geniculata .... 88 



(Paramongoma) longifusa 87 



(Paramongoma) pallipes 88 



Trentonia flagellata 160 



Tribonidium amplum 243 



signaticollis 242 



Tribonium conspersum 242 



guttulosum 285 



spectrum 285 



Trifora nigrocincta 369 



Trophon dominicensis 354 



Turbo dominicensis 395 



Turbonilla (Nisiturris) angustula.. 392 



(Nisiturris) aratibacillum 392 



(Pyrgiscus) beatula 391 



(Nisiturris) contexta 392 



(Pyrgiscus) dominicensis 391 



(Tragula) egressa 392 



(Chemnitzia) galeata 391 



(Nisiturris) insititia 392 



(Chemnitzia) peraequa 391 



(Nisiturris) pertenuis 392 



(Pyrgiscus) santodomingensis 391 

 (Careliopsis) turritelloides .... 391 

 (Nisiturris) undecimcostata.... 392 



Turris albida 316 



rara .- 317 



Turritella calostemma 377 



domingensis 378 



megalobasis 377 



perattenuata praecellens 377 



sulcigyrata 378 



tornata 377 



Typhis alatus 354 



obesus 354 



Typhlinus typhle 444 



Vaganella undulata 309 



Vasum dominicensis 344 



edificatum 344 



haitense 344 



pugnus 344 



tuberculatum 344 



Venericardia aversa 415 



santodomingensis 415 



Verbascum thapsus 481 



Vermetus (Petaloconchus) do- 

 mingensis 377 



(Petaloconchus) laddfranklin- 



ae 376 



Vermiculite 179, 186, 191,192 



Veronica arvenis 505 




1921] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



551 



peregrina 504 



p. xalapensis 504 



persica 505 



polita 505 



scutellata 505 



Veronicastrum virginicum, 503 



Vexillum tortuosellum 341 



t. frater 341 



tortuosum 341 



Vitrinella (Solariorbis) amos- 



browni 398 



(Episcynia) naso 397 



Volvula cyfichnoides 311 



ornata 311 



oxytata 312 



parallela 313 



Wellsite 188, 192 



Williamsite 453 



Xancus praeovoideus 343 



rex 342 



validus 342 



Xenophora dilecta 385 



imperforata 385 



Yoldia ovalis 402 



Zetobora emarginata 209 



Zetoborella 210 



gemmicula 211 



Zircon 184 



Zoisite 185, 191 




GENERAL INDEX 

 1921 



Alexander, Charles P. New or Little- 

 known Craneflies from the Amazoni- 

 an Region 39 



Braun, Annette F. Two Weeks' Col- 

 lecting in Glacier National Park, 1 



Committees, 537. 



Deaths announced, 537, 538. 



Fisher, Arthur H. An Animated Pho- 

 tographic Journey through the Phil- 

 adelphia Zoological Gardens, 537 

 (No abstract). 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Hemi- 

 branchiate and Lophobranchiate 

 Fishes, 437. 



Gordon, Samuel G. Desilicated Gra- 

 nitic Pegmatites, 169. The Chro- 

 mite Deposits of the State Line 



. Serpentines, 449. 



Hebard, Morgan. South American 

 Blattidae from the Museum d' 

 Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France, 193 



Hughes, William E. Across the 

 Peruvian Andes to the Amazon, 537 

 (No abstract). 



Members elected, 537-541. 



Minutes of the Proceedings, Abstracts 



of the, 537-541. 

 Officers, Councillors, and Committee 



on Accounts, 539, 540. 

 Penard, E. Studies on some Flagellata, 



105. 

 Penneli, Francis W. Scrophulariaceae 



of the West Gulf States, 459. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. Revision of W. M. 



Gabb s Tertiary Mollusca of Santo 



Domingo, 305. 

 Rehn, James A. G. The Academy 



Colombian Expedition of 1920 (No 



abstract) 

 Skinner, Henry. A Collecting Trip 



to the Sierra La Sal, Utah, 538 (No 



abstract). 

 Street, J. Fletcher. A .Study of the 



Wild Bird Life of the New Jersey 



Coast, 538 (No abstract). 

 Wanner, H. E. Some Faunal Re- 

 mains from the Trias of York County 



Pennsylvania, 25. 

 Wetmore, Alexander; A Fossil Owl 



from the Bridger Eocene, 455. 



(552) 








■■■■■fliK 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia 

 Proceedings 



Biological 

 & Medicai 

 Serial* 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





