W^:- 









7 US 



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



18 8 0. 



IMJSLIOATION CI) ;U. PUTTEE: 



.losEPH Leiuy, M.D., <teo. n. HOKN, M.D., 



William S. Vaux, Thomas Meeoan, 



John IL Redfielu. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NoLAN, M.D. 



I'll I LADKLTIII A : 



Al'AKEMY (»!•' NATl'KAL SCIENCES. 



S.W. Conicr NiiH'teenlli jidiI \Km-v Streets. 



1S81. 




AcADKMY OK NaTUUAL SoIENCKS UP PhILAPKLPHIA, 



March, 1881. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1880 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : — 



Pa: 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 





PHILADELPHIA 



W. P KiLOARE, Printer 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



W'Uh reference to the Herer'il artideK rontvUivterl by eneh. 

 For VctI'mI (^llnIllmlic;lti'>ns' see (Jenenil Iu'lex. 



Alien, Hani.soii. Desci iption of a foetal walrus '^'t^ 



On the Temporal and ^lasseter INIuscles of ^lammals 385 



Barbeck, Wni. On the Development of Lemua minor. (Plate XVIII.) '280 

 Ber<rh, R. f)n the Nudibrauchiate Gasteropod .MuUusca of the Xorth 

 Pacific ( )cean, with special reference to those of Alaska. Part II. 



(Plates I. -VIII.) 40 



Chapman, H. ('. On the Structure of the Orang Outan<r. (Plates 



XI.-XVII. IfiO 



Cfeuth, F. A., Jr. The So-called Emery Ore from Chelsea, Bethel 



Township, Delaware County, Pa 311 



Hartman, W. D. Description of a Partula sui)posed to l»e new, from 



the Island of Mourea ',*"20 



Heilprin, Angelo. On the Stratigraphical Evidence afforded by the 



Tertiary Fossils of the Peninsula of ^Maryland 0(» 



On some new Lower Eocene Mollusca from C larkc Co., Alabama, 

 with some points as to the Stratigraphical Position of the Beds 



containing them ( Plate 20) ^64 



Kingsley, J. S. Carcinological Notes, Xo. 1 34 



Carcinological Xote.s, No. 2.— Revision of the Gelasimi. (Plates 



IX. and X. ) 13,1 



Carcinological Notes, No. 3. — Revision of the (Tenus Ocypoda 171i 



Carcinological Notes, No. 4.— Synopsis of the Grapsidje 1>^7 



Leidy, Jos. Rhizopods in the Mosses of the Summit of Roan IVIoiui- 



tain, North Carolina 333 



Lewis, Henry Carvill. The Optical Characters of some Micas 244 



On Sideroi)hyllite, a new ^lineral 2.">4 



The Surface Geology of Philadelphia and Vicinity 258 



The Iron Ores and Lignite of the IMontgomery Co. Valley 282 



On a new Fucoidal Plant from the Trias 293 



The Trenton Gravel and its relation to the Antiquity of Man 200 



On Philadelphite (Sp. Nov, ) 318 



Locking-ton, W. N. On a Pacific Species of Caulolatilus 13 



Description of a new species of Hemitripterus from Alaska 233 



Description of a new species of Catostomus (Catostomus Cypho) 



from the Colorado River 337 



McCook, Rev. H. C. The Shining Slavemaker. — Notes on the Archi- 

 tecture and Habits of the American Slave-making Ant, Polyergus 



lucidus (Plate I'J) 370 



Rand, Tlico. D. On Randite 274 



Report on Plants introduced by means of the International Exhibition, 



1870 ". 132 



Vodges, Anth. ^^ . Description of a new Crustacean from the Upper 



Silurian of Georgia, with remarks ui>on Calymenc Clintoni .... 170 





'? 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THB 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1880. 



January 6, 1880. 

 The President, Dr. Rusohenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 



The followins: papers were presented for publieation : 



" On the Nndibranchiate Gasteropod MuUnsea of the Xorth 

 Paoific Ocean, with special reference to lliose of Alaska," by Dr. 

 R. Bergh, of Copenhagen. Part II. 



" The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Cooks or Harvey 

 Islands," by Andrew Garrett. 



The deaths of Dr. S. S. White and .Joj^liua T. Jeanes were 

 announced. 



January 13 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger. in the chair. 

 Forty-two members present. 



On dUarlicidalhu] brandies in Ampelopsif. — Mr. Tiio.MAS 

 ^Ieeiian remarked that some species of Ampelopsis threw off 

 their dead wood by disarticulation, as he pointed out some years 

 ago to be the case with Thuja and Taaodiuui among coniferous 

 trees. This Avas especially the case with Amprlopsis quinqxiefulia. 

 and A. bipinnala. These, in common with many other climbing 

 plants, produced sonu- portions of their annual growth of so !<)w 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



a vital power, that tlioy avoio soon killed wluni severe weather 

 oeeiirved. In the grape vine, for instance, the extreme ends of the 

 stronsi' branches and whole lengths of weaker ones died durini; 

 the winter. These I'eniained on till cnt away by the pruner, or 

 until they fell by natural decay. In the Ampelopsin named they 

 were thrown otf by an articulation, so that by spring no dead 

 wood of the past season's growth would be found on the plants. 

 Every node included in the dead portion, separated ; so that under 

 the plants the pieces may be gathered like the separate vertebrae 

 in a skeleton. 



The Ampelopsis, when running up a tree or wall, seldom sent 

 out lateral branches till it reached the summit. When these side 

 branches were produced, they appeared, after a few years, as thick 

 bushy masses, having the look of a hedge annually pruned. It 

 appears that in these cases the annual growth is disarticulated at 

 Just one node above that one made last year— the branch thus 

 gaining but one node a year. A bushy branch of a dozen years 

 old, Avill thus have but a dozen nodes of living wood. 



The observations were of some interest just now, from the dis- 

 covery of a species of Vifis in the South Pacitic, which produced 

 tubers at the end of the branches, which at the end of the season 

 were thrown off by a disarticulation, and in this way aided in 

 propagation and distribntion. Though the disarticulation in the 

 neighboring genus Ampelopisis, as now noted, results only in 

 ridding the plant at once of useless wood, it showed a relation of 

 powers in allied species that must be of service to those engaged 

 in studies of derivation. 



Geo. Yaux was elected a member of the Council to serve for 

 the unexpired term of C. Newdin Pierce. Aubrey H. Smith was 

 elected to serve for the unexpired term of Edw. D. Cope. 



January 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. • 

 Forty persons present. 



Notice of the Crxiel Thread Worm, Filaria immitis, of the 

 Dog. — Prof. Leidy directed attention to a specimen, presented by 

 Mrs. Laura M. Towne, of Beaufort, S. C, consisting of the heart 

 and part of one lung of a dog, containing thread worms. The 

 right ventricle of the heart and the pulmonar}' artery contained a 

 bunch of the parasites, and several also wxre contained in the 

 lung. A similar specimen, with the ventricle literally stuffed full 

 of worms, is preserved in the museum of the University of Penn- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



.sylvanin. The parasite was tlescribed, thirty years ago, in tho 

 Proceedings of this Academy, under the names of Filaria Canis 

 cordis and Filaria ivimitis (see I'roc, IS.tO, 118; 18.5fi, 2, r)5), 

 and since has l)een repeatedly noticed by observers as infesting 

 the dog in Europe, India, Ciiina, Japan and tliis country. 



Tile specimen presented is accompanied witli a letter from 

 Mrs. Towne, giving an account of the occurrence and symptoms 

 of the parasite as follows : 



" I lost several dogs of different breed, age and birthplace, with 

 the same symptoms — a severe and pe(;uliar cough being the prin- 

 cipal one. A gentleman living on a neighboring island (the Sea 

 Islands of South Carolina) lost over thirty hunting dogs in two 

 or three years with the same symptoms. I watched mv two re- 

 maining dogs closely. They Avere a large Newfoundland (mixed)' 

 and a small terrier. Both had the peculiar cough, which was 

 excited by any movement, especially after sleeping. It alwa^-s 

 ended, after a few coughs, in a violent effort to bring something 

 up from the throat. This did not seem nausea or sickness, and 

 as the dogs never threw up anything, I thought it was due to 

 hairs in the throat. The two dogs had another symptom. 

 When they began to run violently, as at hogs, or a strange dog, 

 they fell down, became stiff and insensible, but in a short time 

 would get up and resume the chase. 



" The little dog died with hemorrhage from the ])ladder or kid- 

 neys ; but no post-mortem examination Mas made. 



" The large dog soon began to cough up bloody i)hle.gm, with 

 consideral)le fresh blood at times. I found in the phlegm one 

 morning two Filarije alive, and at least six inches long. I sent 

 word of this discovery to the owner of the hunting dogs, and 

 when his next one died he had it opened, and found the heart and 

 liver fdled Avith Filax"ia>. 



" My large dog grcAv so ill that I had him shot. His symptoms 

 were drowsiness, sleeping with the upper eyelirls raised, and the 

 inner lining showing very red ; holding his head to one side, one 

 ear drooped ; dragging of one hind leg ; turning roinid and round 

 whenever he attempted to go anywhere; and, fnially, spasms, in 

 which he rolled over and over and drew his head backward. He 

 was fat and had a good appetite to the last. 



" The sister of this dog was given to me. She had a slight cough,, 

 but it increased rapidly. After about three months' attempt to 

 cure her, 1 had her shot before her sutl'erings became severe. Her 

 heart is the one you have. She was fat when she died, and seeuied 

 in good hcMlth, ex(*ej)t for sliort breath in running, the cough and 

 unu-!ual sleepiness. 



*' In tlu' j)ost-mortem of the fust dog, T IVmuuI one Fihuia lying 

 at full length in the windjjipe, and in the large artery others 

 stretched at length and crowded close. Upon cutting into the 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



hoart, the worms burst forth in biiiK-hcs, slowly uncoiling them- 

 selves. They were white, stitt" and wire-like, and not in tlie least 

 stained witli blood. They lived in Avater about twenty-four hours. 

 Tiie large blood-vessels of the lungs were tilled densely, and even 

 from the small ones long Filariae were with some difliculty with- 

 drawn. No worms w'ere foimd in the kidneys." 



January 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled '' Carcinological Notes, No. 2. Revision of 

 the Gelasimi," by J. S. Kingsley, was presented for publication. 



The death of Thomas M. Brewer, a correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



Chas. W. Pickering, John S. Jenks, Wm. II. Jenks, A. R. 

 Thomas, Ferris W. Price, John Wagner, Chas. P. Tasker, Henry 

 F. Formad and George W. Biddle were elected members. 



Angelo Ileilprin, of New York, Dr. C. A. White, of Wasliing- 

 ton, Albert De Selle, of Paris, R. Hoernes, of Vienna, Georges 

 Rolland, of Paris, and Victor Raulin, of Bordeaux, were elected 

 correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



ON THE PACIFIC SPECIES OF CAULOLATILUS. 

 BY W. N. LOCKINGTON. 



In the Troc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1805, pp. 00-08, Dr. Gill 

 omimeratcs four species of his genus CmdolaliluH, one of them, 

 O. chrysop.s (Latilus chrysops, Val.) from the Atlantic, the others 

 from the Pacific Ocean. 



Tliese species are : C. anomalus (r=Dekaya anomalus^ Cooper), 

 C. princeps (=Latilus princeps, Jenyns), and G. affinis, Gill. 

 The first and second of these are stated to differ in the proportion 

 hetween the length of the posterior dorsal spines and the distance 

 between the dorsal fin and the lateral line; as well as in the length 

 of the pectoral ; while the tliird species (characterized from a 

 .specimen about three inches long) is described as follows : " Pro- 

 file quadrant, in front almost vertical; Greatest height less than 

 four times (.21) in the length (exclusive of the caudal), that of 

 caudal peduncle about nine times. Head more than -j^jf of the 

 length, while its height is to its length as 22^ : 31. Diameter of 

 eye equal to almost ^ the height of the head. Preorbital very 

 narrow. Teeth of preoperculum strong and distant ; those of the 

 middle directed obliquely upwards. Sixth dorsal spine equal to 

 I of the length. Anus behind the middle of the length. Caudal 

 rather exceeding the height of the head. Pectorals equal to ^ of 

 the length. Yentrals shorter (.18) inserted beneath the base of 

 the pectoral, its spine at the vertical of the upper axil. D., vii, 

 2.5. A., ii, 22. P., 18. Color reddisli brown on head and back, 

 lighter on the sides. A ver^- distinct blackish spot above the 

 axilla of the pectoral. Locality, Cape St. Lucas.'' Dr. Gill 

 states his belief that the large eyes and the narrow preorbital are 

 characters of youth ; and, moreover, hints a doubt as to the spe- 

 cific identity of C. 2)7-i)icep>i: and C. attomalus, but thinks it 

 scarcely probable on account of the few species known to be 

 common to Lower California and the Galapagos, the localities 

 from wliich the types of C. anomalus and C. princeps were re- 

 spectively procured. 



As I have lately obtained two individuals of a species of Caulo- 

 latilus in the markets of San Francisco, I contribute a tolerably 

 full description, embodying the characters of the two (which 

 evidently belong to the same species) and notes upon the 

 l)eculiarities of each. The difference in some of the proportion.s 




M PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OP [1880. 



between these two individuals has almost convinced me of the 

 identity of G. princepa and C. anomahia ; and I am inclined to 

 think it probable that the type of C. affinis is only a somewhat 

 abnormal specimen of the same species. The chief ditterences 

 between the smaller of my specimens and the t3^pe of G. affinis 

 are the more quadrantiform outline and greater length of the head 

 and the smaller number of dorsal spines and anal rays in the latter- 



As, however, the form of the head differs so considerably in 

 individuals evidently belonging to the same species, too much 

 stress must not be laid on the former character ; and the variation 

 in the number of dorsal spines (viii-ix) and dorsal and anal fm- 

 rays in specimens of undoubted G. anomalus on record, forbid us 

 to think the latter a positive character. 



It is quite possible that an indi^ddual may have acquired the 

 form of head of the adult, while still of small dimensions. The 

 dorsal spine maj^ be expected f judging from the two specimens 

 here described) to increase in their proportional length inversel}' 

 to the size of the fish. 



If my conjecture be correct (and I onlj^give it as a conjecture), 

 then there is only one Pacific species at present known, ranging at 

 least from the Galapagos to the Bay of Monterey, near San Fran- 

 cisco ; representing in this ocean the G. chrysops of the Atlantic, 

 and varying somewhat according to age and localit}^ To thor- 

 oughly settle the question, a thorough examination of several 

 specimens from the Galapagos, and a comparison of them with 

 others from Lower and Upper California, will be necessary. 



Presuming, for the occasion, that they are identical, the 

 s^'nonym}' will be as follows : 



Caulolatilus princeps (Jenyns), Gill. 



Latiliis princeps, Jenyns, Zool. Beagle, 52, pi. 11. 

 Lalilus princeps, Giinther, Cat. Fish. British Museum, II, p. 253. 

 Dekaya anomala, Cooper, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1865, p. 68. 

 Caulolatilus anomalus. Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Cal., 1865, p. 68. 

 Caulolatilus affinis. Gill, loc. cit. 



Caulolatilus anomalus, Streets, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 7, p. 48, 

 1877. 



D. viii-ix, 25-26. A. ii, 24-26. P. 19-20. Y. f C. ac. 13-14. 

 C. 13. 



General DescrijMon. — Profile more or less decurved,the curva- 

 ture increasing with age ; posterior portion of dorsal outline 

 nearly straight ; abdominal outline regularly curved. Greatest 




I880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1$ 



depth slightly less than four to rather more than fives times in the 

 total length ; head, 4f-4| in the same. Greatest thickness about 

 2^ in tlie greatest deptli. Eye, 4-5 times ; snout, 3-3^ times in 

 the length of the head. Interorbital width, measui-ed round the 

 curve of the forehead, 2l-2i in the same. Caudal peduncle, 3-4 

 times in the greatest depth. Distance from the spinous dorsal to 

 the lateral line, [i-li times in the height of the last dorsal spine. 

 Nostrils conspicuous, on the horizon of the centre of the pupil, an- 

 terior with a valve posteriorly ; posterior larger, simple, subcircular, 

 distant from the eye about one-third of the diameter of the latter. 



E3'es large, latei'al, subcircular, their posterior margin nearer 

 the tip of the operculum tiian that of the snout. 



Mouth slightly ascending forwards ; tip of the intermaxillary 

 level with the lower margin of the orbit ; posterior extremity of 

 maxillary nearly vertical with the anterior orbital margin. Max- 

 illary narrow throughout, its posterior portion free, but the 

 greater part of its upper edge concealed behind the lai'ge preorbital 

 in the closed mouth. Jaws equal in front in the closed mouth. 

 Teeth in jaws in several rows in front, tliminishing to a single row 

 farther back on the sides, rather small, sk-nder, acute, recurved at 

 tip, but those in front of the mandible in the outer row inclined 

 forwards. Teeth in front largest, those on the sides diminishing, 

 but the hindermost tooth on each side of each jaw more or less 

 developed as a canine, though still shorter than the anterior teeth. 



No teeth on vomer or palatines. Upper pharyngeals set with 

 sharp, irregularly spaced, cardiform teeth; lower pharyngeals with 

 an outer and inner row of similar teeth, with some irregularly placed 

 teeth between the rows. Lower pharyngeals entirely separate. 



Gill-rakers of front of first branchial arch slender, rather stitf, 

 about ^ the diameter of the e^'e, all the others tubercular. 



Hinder border of preoperculum vertical, very slightly curved, 

 lower angle rounded, set with teeth which slightly increase in 

 size at the angle, but do not extend along the lower border. 

 Operculum ending behind in a broad flat spine. 



Dorsal commencing above the upper i)ectoral axil, very long, 

 the tips of its terminal rays reaching the caudal accessories; the 

 length of its base about half the total length of the fish ; spinous 

 dorsal 3§-4 times in the total length of the fin, and lower than the 

 soft portion. First dorsal spine shortest, the otiiers increasing 

 rapidly to the fifth, more slowly- to the eighth or ninth ; the longest 

 6^-8 times in the total length of the fui. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Soft dorsal continuous with the spinous portion, and almost 

 equal in height throughout, the last ray excepted. Last ra}-- 

 much shorter than the others. Height of soft dorsal, in front 

 5i-7§ times in the total length ; manj' of the rajs simple, some 

 slightly bifurcate at the tip, the two or three last raj'S twice 

 branched. 



Anal commencing under fifth dorsal ray, its length about f of 

 that of the dorsal, with which it is coterminous. Anal spines very 

 small, closely adpressed to the first raj-s ; rajs similar and about 

 equal in length to those of the dorsal, the last much shorter than 

 the others. Pectoral lanceolate, the seventh ray longest, the raj'S 

 decreasing rapidly on each side, the lowest scarcely one-fifth as 

 long as the seventh. Length to tip of longest ray li-1^ in that 

 of the head. Most of the raj^s twice branched, tip of the longest 

 reaching a little beyond the anus. Base of pectoral slighth^ 

 oblique. 



Ventrals inserted imder the hinder margin of the pectoral base, 

 their tips not reaching to the anus ; their length about f that of 

 the pectoral ; the last four rays twice bifurcate. 



Caudal about one-sixth of the total length, with numerous acces- 

 sory rays, causing a widening of the caudal base ; principal rays 

 three times forked ; hinder border deeply and triangularly emar- 

 ginate, almost forked. 



Lateral line indistinct, tubes simple; about 145 scales in its 

 length, parallel or nearly so with the dorsal outline. 



About forty scales between the ventrals and the lateral line, and 

 thirteen above the latter. Scales of body almost rectangular, their 

 longitudinal exceeding the transA'erse diameter, the free margin 

 finely ctenoid. All the scales small, those of the abdomen rather 

 smaller than the others, especially front of the paired fins. 



Scales extending upon the cheeks and opercular apparatus, but 

 the snout and forehead to above the centre of the eyes, the upper 

 border of the orbits ; preopercular margin, jaws and gill-membrane 

 scaleless. 



No scales upon dorsal or anal ; caudal covered with small scales 

 over the greater portion of its surface. Pectorals more or less 

 seal}' exteriorly near the base, the scales extending farther between 

 the central than between the lateral rays. 



Color leaden-gray, becoming darker aboA'e, but fading to a dirt}- 

 creamy -white below. Vertical fins slaty-gray. Dorsal surface of 

 head darker than the rest of the bod)'. 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



17 



The two specimens on which the above description is principally 

 fouuded were procured in the market of San Francisco, and were 

 Itrought from the vicinity' of Montere}' Bay. One is an adult, tin* 

 other an immature individual, and the two present considerable 

 variation in external form, and in the proportions of some of the 

 p;nts, as will be evident by the dimensions and further description 

 of each specimen here appended. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Fin-lht'7' DcHcription of No. 1. — Snout vcMy declivous, dorsal 

 outline in advance of the dorsal rising rapidl}'^, owing to a great 

 accumulation of adipose tissue about the upper part of the body ; 

 posterior part of dorsal outline regularly descending almost in a 

 straight line ; al)dominal outline regularl}^ curved. 



Greatest dei)th a little less than four times; head, 4| times in 

 the total length; greatest thickness, 1§ in the greatest d('i)th. 

 Eye, 4^^ ; snout, 3, interorbital width (round curve of forehead), 

 '2| times in the length of the head. Caudal peduncle, four times 

 in the greatest depth. Distance from the spinous dorsal to the 

 lateral line, measured along the curve of the side, one-third longer 

 than the longest spine. 



Denticulations of preoperculum rather blunt ; opercular spine 

 blunt. 



Teeth somewhat irregular, canines less distinct than in the 

 young. 



Anal spines short and weak, but stiff, and distinctly recog- 

 nizable as spines ; the first very short, the second about half as 

 long as the first ray. 



Lateral line less conspicuous than in the young. 



Upper part of the head and along the line of the back approach- 

 ing a chocolate tint. 



Vertical fins darker nearer the margin. No black spot above, 

 pectoral axil. 



The whole fish is exceedingly oily, and the abundant exudation 

 of .this oil renders it exceedingly disagreeable to handle. 



Further Description of No. 2. — Dorsal outline from tip of lower 

 jaw to vertical from posterior margin of eye, much less convex 

 than in the adidt ; rise from thence to the origin of the dorsal 

 very slight ; a gradual descent in an almost straight line from 

 thence to the caudal peduncle. Abdominal outline regularly 

 carved to caudal peduncle. Greatest depth, 5g^ ; length of head, 

 4^ times in the total length ; eye, 4 times ; snout, about 3^ times 

 in the length of the head. Interorbital width, measured round 

 its curve, about one-fifth more than the length of the snout, or 

 2^ in the length of the head. Caudal peduncle, 3 times in the 

 greatest depth. 



Distance from the spinous dorsal, at its posterior part, to the 

 lateral line, nearly 1^ in the length of the longest spine, and less 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES Of I'llILADELPIIIA. 19 



than one-third of the semieircumferenee of the l)0<ly. Longest 

 (9th) dorsal spine, 2^ in the length of the head. 



Forehead and occiput transversely much less arcuate than in 

 the adult, the large deposit of fat on these parts in the latter being 

 absent in the young. 



Oj)ening of mouth slighth' less oblique than in the adult, tiie 

 maxillarj- extending a little farther back. Teeth much as in tlie 

 adult, but the hindmost tooth in each jaw, but especially in the 

 upper, assuming more distinctly the proportions of a canine, 

 though still smaller than the front teeth. 



Denticulations of operculum proportionately more conspicnous. 

 and more acute than in the adult, opercular spine ending in three 

 denticulations. 



Ninth dorsal spine, 65 times in the length of the fin, about 2^ 

 in the greatest depth. Rays of soft dorsal about 2^- in the great- 

 est depth, the antepenultimate ray slightly produced. Anal spines 

 closely attached to the first ray, ver}' small, flexible, and scarcely 

 recognizable as spines. 



A black spot above the upper axil of the pectoral; ujiper parts 

 without the warm tint of the adult. Xo large development of 

 adipose tissue. 



Since tlie above paper was written, a third specimen of Caulola- 

 lilus from the same locality has come into the possession of the 

 California Academy- of Sciences. This example is about equal in 

 length to the larger of the two described, but the development of 

 fat upon the occiput is much less marked, so that its proportions 

 are very nearly those of the type of C. anomalus. 



Although I am perfectly aware that specimens from the Gala- 

 pagos would be required to settle the question of the identity of 

 G. princeps \>'\i\\ C. anomalus and C. affinis,! believe that the 

 comparison of these three examples, evidently all of one species, 

 and sharing among them characters relied upon as specific, cer- 

 tainly throws great doubt upon the distinctness of the three de- 

 scribed species. Dr. Bean (in lit.) doubts the specific identity of 

 the two specimens described in this paper, and draws attention to 

 certain diflerences of proportion, but the only differences of mag- 

 nitude are those caused by the development of fat on the occiput. 




'20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON THE STRATIGRAPHICAL EVIDENCE AFFORDED BY THE TERTIARY 

 FOSSILS OF THE PENINSULA OF MARYLAND. 



BY ANGELO IIEILPUIN. 



The Tertiary deposits of Maryland have from time to time 

 attracted the attention of investigators more or less eminent in 

 their special lines of research, the resnlts of whose observations, 

 owing to the then imperfect state of American geological and pale- 

 ontological science, onl}-^ ver^- gradually tended to unfold the true 

 relations existing between the sj'nchronous formations of the 

 east-Atlantic and west-Atlantic countries. 



Maclure, on the map accompanying his " Observations of the 

 (Jeology of the United States " (ISH), classed all the late super- 

 ficial deposits of Maryland under the general term " Alluvial," 

 which term was likewise applied to almost the entire border 

 deposits of the Atlantic and Gulf slopes. In 1824 (J. A. N. S., 

 vol. iv) Say described about forty species of fossil shells collected 

 by Mr. Finch from the same state, but excepting some passing 

 retlections on the nature of the deposit whence they were obtained, 

 and orv the great resemblance existing between some of the forms 

 and forms still living on the coast, no special geological inferences 

 were drawn from the collection. From a comparative examination 

 of the contained fossils. Van Rensselaer (" Lectures on Geology," 

 1825, p. 261) subsequently referred the deposits in question to 

 the Upper Marine formation, which view was concnrred in by 

 Morton in a paper read before the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia in June, 1828. In a previous paper ("Geological 

 Observations on the Secondar}', Tertiary, and Alluvial Forma- 

 tions," J. A. N. S., January, 1828), published conjointly by 

 Vanuxem and.Morton, no attempt was made to correlate the various 

 divisions of l>lie American and European Tertiary formations. 



Conrad, wHo, more than any other American geologist, con- 

 tributed to advance our knowledge of the geology and paleon- 

 tology of this latest period, was the first to recognize the existence 

 of at least three distinct post-Secondary formations in Maryland, 

 the oldest of which he identified by a series of a few fossils found 

 near Ft. Washington, on the Potomac, as belonging to the Eocene, 

 and the newest, as exposed on the southeast extremity of the 

 peninsula, to the Post-Pliocene (J. A. N. S., vol. vi, and Bulletin 




Proc. A.N,S..pM(r.A,]^RO, 



P 



L. X 



i'US'ElN i SC> 



i vVN l,\>: V. •■.. 1 llll.i.. Lug' 



HEILPRIN ON EOCENE FOSSILS, 





1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



21 



of the National Institution, 1841). The intermediate deposits 

 were classed as the Ui)per Marine, but subsequently under LyelTs 

 designation of Miocene. Conrad's original observations were in 

 general confirmed by his later researches, and the relations of at 

 least a great portion of the Miocene of Maryland, as well as of 

 almost tlie entire Atlantic slope, were clearly pointed out by 

 Lyell in 1845 (Proc. of the Geolog. Soc, vol. iv, p. 547). 



It is mainly in relation to this last formation that we wish to 

 draw special attention, there l)eing but little (question concerning 

 the original determination of the Eocene and Post-Plioceuc 

 (Pliocene?) deposits. That the great bulk of the deposits known 

 as the Medial Tertiary of Mar3land are not S3'nchronous witli 

 the South Carolina deposits classed by Tnomey and Holmes as 

 Pliocene, an assumed fact insisted upon by Conrad, and for which 

 there appears to be no evidence, an examination of the following 

 table of mollusca will cleai'ly demonstrate : 



Lameilibranchiata of the Medial Tertiary Formations of Maryland. 



Anomia epTdppium,* 

 Amphidesma carinata,* 

 " subovata, 



Area call i pleura, 



(^ A. dipleura?), 

 ' ' idonea, 

 " incite,* 

 " subrostrata, 

 " Marj'landica, 

 " triquetra, 

 " centenaria,* 

 " improccra,* 

 " stilicidiura, 

 Artemis acetabulum,* 

 " concentrica, 

 (^ A. elegans?\ 

 Astarte vicina, 



" cuneiformis, 

 " obruta, 

 " pei-plana, 

 " exaltata, 

 " varians, 

 " distans, 

 " planul.ita, 

 " uudulatu,* 

 Cardita arata,* 



Cardita protracta, 



" granulata,* 

 Cardium laqueatum, 

 " acutilaquea- 



tum. 

 " craticuloides, 

 " leptopleura, 

 Corbula cuneata, • 

 " idonea, 

 " elevata, 

 " inequalis,* 

 Crassatella Marylandica, 

 '* turgidula, 



" melina, 



" undulata,* 



CytTierea Sayana,* 

 " albaria,* 



(= C. idonea), 

 " Marylandica, 

 " subnasuta, 

 Isocardia fraterna, 

 " Markoei, 

 Leda liciata, 

 " acuta,* 

 " (Yoldia) he vis, 

 •' ( Nucula) proxima. 



Leda concentinca, 



Lima papyria, 



Lepton (?) mactroides, 



Lucina anodonia,* 



(=L. Americana^ 

 ' ' Foremani, 

 " suboljliqua, 

 " subplaua, 

 " cribraria,* 

 " crenulata,* 

 " coniracia,* 

 " divaricata,* 



Mactra incrassata, 

 " ponderosa. 

 ' ' fragosa, 

 " subcuneata, 

 " dclunibis, 



Modiola Ducatollii, 



Mya producta, 



Mytilus incurva. 



Ostrea Virginica,* 

 " percrassa,* 



Panopaa Americana, 

 " rellexa,* 

 *' porrecta, 

 1=1*. Uoldfussi? 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Pectcn Madisonius, Perna maxillata, Tellina lenis, 



" Iluinplnvysii, Petricola ccntenaria, ■• Venus tetrica, 



" Jertbrsonius, Plicatula margiiiata,* " Mortoni, 



" coiu'eiUricus, Plioladomya abrupt a,* " alveata, 



" Clintonius, Pliolas ovalis, " inoceiiformis, 



" septcnarius,* (= P. costatatf' *' stamiueus, 



Pectuuculus pavilis,"^ Saxicava rugosa, " tridacnoides,* 



" lentifor- Solen etisis,* " molacea,* 



mis,* Tellina aiquistriata, *' Rileyi.* 



'* subovatus," " biplicata, '^ 



The species in italics are still living on the American coasts; those fol- 

 lowed by an * are described by Tuomey and Holmes as occurring in tlie 

 Pliocene formation of South Carolina. 



[Note. — The preceding table has been compiled as accuratel}" 

 jis possible from the various papers pertaining to the paleontology 

 of the State, but owing to their number, and to the numerous 

 publications in which they liave been spread, it has proved impos- 

 sible to collect them all, and no doubt some few species will bo 

 found occurring iji the State which have escaped our notice. 

 These will probably be very few in number, and will not materially 

 affect the general conclusion. The following twentj^-two species, 

 mainly those described by Say from the collection of Mr. Finch 

 (J. A. N. S., vol. iv), have no stated locality: Area centenaria. 

 A. improcera, A. incile, Astarte distans, Graasatella undulata. 

 Leda acuta, L. concentrica, L. pro.xima, L. Isevis, Lucina con- 

 h'acta, L. divaricaia, L. subobliqua, Panopsea reflexa^ Pecten 

 Jeff'ersonrus, P. Clintonius, P. concentricus, P. septcnarius, Pec- 

 tunculus subovatus, Plicatula marginata, Tellina sequistriata, 

 Venus deformis {tridacnoides), and V. Rileyi.'] 



It will thus be seen, that of about one hundred species of 

 bivalves, only thirty-six (36 per cent.) arc common to about an 

 equal numl)er (105) from the South Carolina deposits; and 

 further, that, whereas, of the preceding enumeration of Maryland 

 moUusca only about fifteen per cent, are recent forms, no less 

 than forty per cent, (or according to Tuomey and Holmes, nearly 

 fifty per cent.) of the South Carolina Pliocene (Conrad's Miocene) 

 bivalve molhisca are still living. There remains, therefore, no 

 question regarding the relative ages of the two formations. 



An examination of the fossiliferous strata exposed in sections 

 at various points on the western shore of Chesapeake Bay, in 




1880.] NATIKAL 80IENCES OK I'll! LADELPIIIA. "23 



Anne Arundel and C'alvert Counties, on the Putiixcnt Flivcr. near 

 Benedict, and on tlie St. Mary's River, St. Mary's County, tend 

 tf» show, moreover, that the series of deposits intermediate Ijclween 

 the Eocene of Fort Washington and the Pliocene of the south- 

 east extremity of the peninsula helong to two different periods of 

 formation, an older and a newer; those belonging to the latter 

 period being characterized by a fauna, the proportion of living 

 forms in which is far in excess of that in the former. Sections 

 of the newer deposits are exhibited in Calvert County, near Cove 

 Point, on the Patuxent River, below Benedict, at about water 

 level, on the same river, further north, in the deposits abocc the 

 Perna beds, and more especially on the St. Mary's River, St. 

 Mary's County. The older deposits are best shown in the oyster 

 beds, rising a few feet above tide-water, at Fair Haven, Anne 

 Arundel County (which point was considered by Conrad as the 

 northern termination of the peninsular Miocene formation), in 

 similar beds, also only a few feet above water level, at a point 

 about twenty miles furtliei- south (;' Colonel Blake's," of Conrad), 

 in the sections exhiljited by the Calvert Cliffs, and in the Perna 

 beds on both banks of the Patuxent River. There is, further, 

 strong, although not conclusive evidence, for considering the beds 

 (containing Perna inaxiHala and Odrca jiercra^sa as the lowest 

 of the series. 



The following tables exiiil)it as nearly as possible the distribu- 

 tion of Lamellibranchiata in the deposits of both periods, those 

 of the newer being for convenience of compaiison divided into 

 the Patuxent and St. Mary's groups : 



Ol.OEK PKUIOD. 



1 Area dipleura, 1 1 Corbula elevata, 



(= A. caliipleura y), 12 Crassatella mclina. 



i '• Maryland ica, 18 '' turgidula, 



3 " subrostrata, 14 Cytherca subuasuta, 



4 " triquetra, 1.') Isocardia ^^arkoei, 

 .T Artemis acetabulum, l(j Leda liciata, 



H Astarte varians, 17 Lima papyria, 



T " exaltata, 18 Lucina P'oremani, 



8 Cardium craticuloide<, 11) *' subplana, 



9 '' leptopleura, 20 •" crenulata, 

 10 Corbula idonea, 21 Mytilus incurva, 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



22 Modiola Ducatelii, 29 Perna maxillata, 



23 Ostrea percrassa, ;}0 Pliolas ovalis, 



24 Panopa^a porrccta ((Joldfnssi) (= ^- costata?) 



25 Pocten llunipliivysii. 31 Tellina lenis, 

 2r> " Madisonius, 32 Ve^ius alveata, 



27 Pectunculus parilis, 33 " staminea, 



28 " lentiformis, 34 " Morloni? 



NEWER PERIOD. — I. PATUXENT GROUP. 



1 Anomia Conradi, 13 Lucina Americana, E.. 



(= A. ephippium ?), (= L. Floridana)^ 



2 Area idonea, St. M., 14 Mactia incrassata, 



3 Artemis acetabulum, St. M., 15 Mya producta, 



"4 Astarte undulata, St. M. 16 Panopaea Americana, 



•b Cardita protracta, 17 " porrecta (Gold- 



'6 Cardium laqueatum, St. M., fussi), St. M., 



7 Carbula idonea, St. M., E., 18 Pecteu Madisonius, St. M.. E.. 



8 Crassatella Marylandica, p]., 19 Petricola ccntenaria, 



9 Gylherea Sayana, St. M., 20 Pholas ovalis, 



10 " Marylandica, (= P. cos^a^a?), St. M.. 



11 " albaria, 21 Tellina biplicata, E., 



12 Isocardia fraterna, St. M., 22 Vemi's 3Iortoni? St. M. 



II. ST. mary's group. 



1 Amphidesma carinata,f 14 Corbula idonea, 



2 " subovata,"!" 15 Gylherea Sayana^ 



3 Area idonea, 10 " (^Wemjs) coneen- 



4 " arata,t trica,f 



5 '' stiiicidium,! (= A. elegans'f), 

 G Artemis acetabulum, 17 Isocardia fraterna, 



7 Astarte undulata, 18 Lucina cribraria,"]" 



8 " planulata,f 19"" Mactra ponderosa,f 



(= A. perplana?), 20 " subcuneata,t 



9 " vieina.f 21 " fragosa,f 



10 Cardita granulata,f 22 " delumbis,t 



11 Cardium laqueatum, 23 Ostrea Virginica,^ 



12 Corbula inequalis,f 24 Panoprea porrecta, 

 13* " cuneata,f 25 Peeten Madisonius, 



* Corbula cuneata^and Mactrd. ponderosd are also found in the newer 

 deposits of Calvert County, near Cove Point. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



26 Pholadomya abrupta,t 



27 Pliolas arcuata, 



(= P. costata), 



28 Saxicava rugfosa,f 



29 Solen ensis ?f 



Note. — The italicized names represent species supposed to be 

 identical with living forms ; those (in the Patuxent group) fol- 

 lowed by the letters St. M. and E., species common to St. Mary's 

 and to Easton (Choptank River); and those (in the St. Mary'3 

 group) followed by a f, species peculiar to the localit3^ 



A comparison of the foregoing lists will show at a glance, that 

 of the thirty-four bivalves belonging to the older formations, at 

 most only three (or 9 per cent.) are found to be living forma 

 {Pholas ovalis [== P. costata ?], Venus alveata, and Venus Mortoni)^ 

 and that only six (18 per cent.) and seven (21 per cent.) are corn- 

 common respectively to the Patuxent and St. Mary's exposures 

 viz. : 



To Patuxent. To St. Mary's. 



Artemis acetabulum,* Artemis acetabulum, 



Corbula idonea, Corbula idonea, 



Pholas ovalis,* Pholas arcuata (= costata), 



Panopa^a porrecta, Panopaea porrecta, 



Pecten Madisonius, Pecten Madisonius, 



Venus Mortoni, Venus Mortoni, 



" alveata.* 



* There appears to be much confusion regarding the species of Artsmi» 

 found fossil in the Atlantic tertiary deposits, and their relation to the 

 forms now living on the Florida coast. In 1832 ("Fossil Shells of 

 the Tertiary Formations," p. 20) Conrad characteiized the species A. 

 acetabulum, which appears to have been until then confounded with the 

 A. concentrica, Con., non Borni_^. discus, Reeve, "Conchologia Icouica," 

 vol. vi, sp. 9), inhabiting the southern coast. No mention is there made 

 of its being found also in a recent state, but subsequently, 1838 ("Fossils 

 of the Medial Tertiary Formations," p. 29), we hnd the following statement : 

 "This tine species is very common in the localities named, and also occurs 

 recent on the Florida coast." In the list of shells iuhahiting the Florida 

 coast, prepared by the same author in 1846 (A. J. Science, 2d .series, ii, 

 p. 893), only two species of Ai-titnis are catalogued, A. elegans and A. con- 

 centrica, and it therefore appears highly probable that the statement con- 

 sidering A. acetabulum also as a living form was founded on a misconcep- 

 tion, the more especially, as an examination of the recent shells in the 

 3 




•26 PROCKKPINGS OP THE ACAnEMY OF [1880. 



Deducting two or three S])ecies that are also found at Easton, 

 we still have left twenty-three (or 68 per cent, of the whole 

 number) that are not found in the later deposits. 



Museum of the Academy fails to reveal anything answering to Conrad's 

 original description. This species appeal's moreover to be identical with 

 the Venus concentrica described by Tuomey and Holmes iu their work on 

 the Pliocene fossils of South Carolina (1857, p. 82), and to which Conrad, 

 apparently without good reason, applied the specific name of intermedia 

 (Bosinia [Arte?nis'\ intermedia) iu his check list of Miocene fossils (Proc. 

 A. N. S., 1862, p. 575). The A. acetabulum is found fossil in the tertiary 

 deposits of Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, and 

 must be carefully distinguished from the A. concentrica of Born, to which 

 it bears only a distant resemblance. Another fossil species is probably the 

 A. elegans, Con. (living on the Florida coast) ; one almost perfect speci- 

 men, which agrees in all essential respects with the recent forms, is in the 

 Academy Miocene collections, but, unfortunately, the locality whence it 

 wa.s obtained is not given. In his account of the geology and organic 

 remains of the peninsula of Maryland (1830, J. A. N. S., vol. vi, p. 212), 

 Conrad mentions the Cytherea {Artemis) concentrica, Lam., as occurring in 

 the St. Mary's exposure, but as .subsequently ("Fossils of the Medial 

 Tertiary," 1838, p. 30), it is distinctly stated that the same does not occur 

 in the Miocene formation, it is highly probable that the original observa- 

 tion was erroneous. Certainly nothing corresponding either to the species 

 in question or to .4. discus is to be found in the Maryland Miocene collec- 

 tion of the Academy. 



The common species inhabiting the southern coast is not the A. concen- 

 trica of Born, with which it has been frequently confounded, and to which 

 it bears only a very slight resemblance, but the A. discus of Reeve {loc. cit. ). 

 A third sijecies, the A. (Dosinia) Floridana Con., is unquestionably very 

 closely allied to the last, from which it differs essentially only in the 

 greater obliquity of the pallial sinus. In other respects it agrees with the 

 Hgures and minute description of Bom's species as given by Agassiz in his 

 ^' Iconographie des Coquilles Tertiaires^^ {Nouv. Mem. de la Societe 

 Eelvetique, 1845, vol. vii). 



I am disjjosed to consider the various forms of Venus alveata and V. 

 latilirata as mere varieties of one and the same species, a series of inter- 

 mediate stages seeming to link them together. The V. athleta constituted 

 by Conrad to embrace the V. athleta of Say, V. latilirata of Tuomey and 

 Holmes, and the V. paphia of Lamarck, appears likewise to be nothing 

 V>ut a variety of the same form. The V. alveata is included by Stimpson 

 among the living mollusca of the Atlantic coast (Smithsonian Check 

 Lists, I860;, but this fact appears very doubtful in the opinion of Tryon 

 ("American Marine Conchology," 1873, p. 160). It must be confessed, 

 however, that there exists a very striking agreement between the fossil 

 shell and specimens of the V. paphia, Linn., from St. Thomas, the main 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



On the other hand, the fossils of the newer deposits as exhibited 

 in the sections on the west bank of the Patuxent show a very 

 decided similarity to those of St. Mary's, for out of the twenty- 

 two species of bivalves occurring there, no less than eleven ( or 

 just 50 per cent.) are also common to the last mentioned locality.. 

 There can, therefore, I believe, be no reasonable doubt that the 

 dieposits exposed on the Patuxent River inftnediately above the 

 Pernn beds constitute a direct continuation of the highly fossili- 

 ferous strata bordering lioth sides of the St. Mary's River. These 

 last number among their fossil fauna also about tlnrt^'-four species 

 of Lamellibranchs, the same num])er as is found in what we have 

 designated as the older group, l)ut of these thirty-four, about 

 twenty-two (or, deducting Corbula cuneata and Macira ponderosa, 

 twenty), or 65 per cent, are peculiar to the locality. Moreover, 

 of the entire number, about nine (or 27 per cent.) are still living 

 on the Atlantic coast. The dissimilarity of the two fauuie cannot 

 fail to strike the least observant investigator, and Conrad has 

 dwelt at some length upon this curious manifestation (A. J. 

 Science, vol. xxviii, p. 282, and Bull. National Institution, 1841, 

 p. 176). That paleontologist singularly enough (apparently not 

 having made an}' exact numerical estimates either of the living 

 forms, or of the forms found in one locality and not in the other) 

 explains the ditfercnces as due solely to variable local conditions.' 



difference being a tendency on the part of the latter to lose the full solidity 

 of its ribs some distance before they reach the posterior slope. The V. 

 atveafa exhibits a similar tendency, but not quite to the sanie extent. 



I have been unable to discover any description of the Pholaa ovalis, 

 Con., nor is there any mention made of it either in the Pliocene check 

 list prepared by Conrad in 1862, (Proc. A. N. S.\ or in that of Meek, of 

 18G4 (Smithsonian Miscell. Collections). I have, therefore, ouly doubtfully 

 referred it to P. costata. 



' Thus he states (A. J. S. loc. cit.) : "If our coast were now suddenly 

 elevated, we should find spots where the shells would consist chietly of an 

 immense number of Modiola demissa mixed witli Littorina liUorea and 

 Melampns bidentaius ; these are found on the margin of the lagoons at 

 high water mark, the Modiola imbedded in a tenacious; soil. At a little 

 distance would be found Venus mercenaria, Mya arenoriay Solen en$ia, 

 Solecurtus Caribeus ; among these would b^ Oatrea Virginiana, Fusut 

 einereus, and a few of Pecten concentricus. Such is the group existing on 

 the sandy shore of the Estuaries. Hard by, would be a vast deposit of 

 oyster shells with Echinus, and immense masses of Serpula. These live 

 on the bottom of the lagoons, which is couxposed of a mixture of sand and 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



This interpretation miglit very satisfactorily account for the phe- 

 nomenon as far as generic distribution alone is concerned, and, 

 indeed, it would even hold good in its bearings on a limited number 

 of species, but it would hardly apply to a case such as the present 

 one, where the specific dissimilarity is so vast in such a compara- 

 tively very limited geographical extent. 



Now, if the supposition that the deposits in question wer6 

 deposited at two dift'erent periods be a correct one, and paleon- 

 tologieal evidence goes far to prove that they were, we should 

 naturally expect to find also some direct stratigraphical evidence 

 artbrded by the superposition of the strata themselves.^ The 

 following section was obtained by Conrad at a point on the Chesa- 



mud. Then would be found another group of shells which live only in 

 deep water, the Asiarte lunulata, Nucula limatula, N. proxima, Cardita 

 borealis, Pholas costata, in company with great numbers of Mytili. This 

 deposit we should recognize as having been formed in harbors, like those 

 of Newport and Charleston. ..." 



It will be observed, that in the above conception Conrad has confined 

 himself entirely to generic and not specific distribution. 



^ It may as well be remarked, that, although in the foregoing examina- 

 tion of the molluscous fauna I have dwelt exclusively upon the Lamelli- 

 hranchiata, the Gasteropoda offer equal, if not greater support to the 

 general conclusion arrived at. On comparing the lists of geogxaphical 

 distribution given by Conrad in the Bulletin of the National Institution 

 (pp. 181-7), it will be seen, that not a single recent form occurs among 

 the eighteen enumerated from the Calvert cliff's at "Hance's;" and 

 further, that only two species, Valuta mutabilis and V. solitaria, are 

 common to the forty-two found at St. Mary's. Of these last eight (or 19 per 

 cent. ) were con3idered by Conrad to be recent forms : 



Buccinum trivittatum, Natica duplicata, 



" lunatum, Dentalium dentalis, 



" quadratum, Fusus cinereus, 



Natica heros, Scalaria clathrus. 



Nearly all the species found on the west bank of the Patuxent also 

 occur at St. Mai-y's, and the same can be said of those collected in Calvert 

 county near Cove point the southern extremity. Singularly enough, that 

 although three species of Turritella—T. indenta, T. exaltata, and T. 

 perlaqueata—yfere collected from Calvert cliff's in the upper portion of the 

 county, none of them appear to have been found near Cove Point, where 

 " vast quantities " of a new species, T. plebeia, "the common species of 

 St. Mary's River" (loc. cit. p. 182), appear suddenly to make their 

 appearance. 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PUILADELPHIA. 



29 



peake, near " Beckett's," about twenty-eight miles south of Fair 

 Haven : 



Feet in Thicknett. 



Sand, without shells. 



Sand, with innumerable shells. 



20 



Mingled sand and clay, without fossils, or verj- rare. 



Same as below, less numerous. 

 Sand and clay, with a group of shells like that at Hance's. 



The shells obtained at Hance's, about four miles further north, 

 were the following : 



Bivalves, 



Astarte varians, 



" exaltata, 

 Artemis acetabulum, 

 Area subrostrata, 



" dipleura, 

 Cytherea subnasuta, 

 Cardium leptopleura, 

 Crassatella melina, 

 Corbula idonea, 



" elevata, 



Univalves. 



Bonellia lineata, 

 CanccUaria biplieifera, 



" engonata, 



Dcntalium thalloidos, 

 Fissurella Marylaudica, 

 Voluta mutabilis, 

 Infundil)ulum perarmatum, 

 MargincUa pcrcxigua, 

 Pleurotoma Marylandica, 



Bivalves. 



Isocardia Marko^i, 

 Lima papyria, 

 Lucina Foremani, 



" subplanata, 



" erenulata, 

 Pectunculus lentiformis, 

 Venus latilirata, 



" Mortoni ? 



" staminea. 



Univalves. 



Pleurotoma bellaerenata, 

 Scalaria paehypleura, 

 Solarium trilineatum, 

 Sigaretus fragilis, 

 Troc'hus pcralveatus, 

 Turritella indenta, 

 " exaltata, 



" porlaqueata, 



Voluta solitaria. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



It will be at once noticed that in addition to the lowest fossil- 



fiferous stratum, extending to about seven feet above water levQl, 



a second highly fossiliferous one manifests itself at a height of 



about twenty-seven feet, in which were recognized among other 



i shells Artemis acetabulum and Pecten Madisonius. The mineral 



' character of this upper deposit is described by Conrad as being a 



" quartzose sand,verj^ incoherent," which is exactly what we meet 



' with in the arenaceous deposits on the west bank of the Patuxent 



River, near Benedict, and which we have identified as equivalents 



of the St. Mary's deposits. They are described by Conrad as 



being composed of an " arenaceous, fossiliferous stratum," the 



sand of which is "quartzose and incoherent" (B. N. I,, p. 185). 



We have thus exposed in one section two highly fossiliferous 

 strata, the upper of which shows a very decided analogy to what 

 we have designated as the newer group, and the lower of which 

 assumes a distinct personality for reason of its position, and the 

 paleontological characters impressed upon it. Proceeding from 

 this point southeastward, and therefore in the general direction 

 of the dip of the beds, we should naturally expect to meet a point 

 where our upper stratum, or its equivalent, would descend nearer 

 to the level of the Bay, and in fact we do find just such a point 

 near Cove Point, where "the group most characteristic of these 

 tertiary deposits, imbedded in sand," descends to a height only 

 about fifteen feet above water mark (B. N. I., p. 183). The 

 fossils found here are also nearly all found at St. Mary's, and they 

 are, moreover, " highly ferruginous, as much so as many of the 

 crag fossils of Great Britain, which they greatly resemble, also, 

 in other respects " (Conrad, loc. cit.). On the St. Mary's River, 

 the southeasternmost extension of the formation, the same deposit 

 sinks almost to water level, as might well be expected on follow- 

 ing the general direction of the dip. Here, the Pliocene deposits, 

 well characterized by their fossils, make their appearance. 



On proceeding from our first point almost due northwards, and 

 therefore at a considerable angle to the line of strike, we meet 

 with just the reverse phenomena met with on our southern 

 journey. At Fair Haven, where Conrad obtained the following 

 section, 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Feet in Thickness. 



50 



Whitish Clay. 

 Bones of Cetacea. 



3 



Clay, with siliceous casts of marine shells and fragments of bones. 



5 



Clay, -with Ostrea percrassa, Pecten Humphreysii. 



the highly fossiliferous stratum found at water mark, at Beckett's, 

 is probably represented by a bed of cla}^ three feet in thickness, 

 commencing at a height of five feet, and which contains " great 

 numbers of black, water-worn, siliceous casts of small shells, 

 chiefly Turritella., the species not yet determined." Below this 

 an entii-ely new deposit now makes its appearance, a bed of clay 

 of five feet thickness, characterized by Ostrea percrassa and 

 Pecten Humphreysii. This last, therefore, probably represents 

 the most ancient post-Eocene deposit exhibited on the Chesapeake. 

 Ostrea percrassa and Pecten Humphreysii were also found by 

 Conrad at Iluntingtown, Calvert County, where in a " dejyression 

 or small valley " a race-way had been excavated through tlie 

 fossiliferous " marls." The lowest member of the section was 

 " quartzose sand, with casts of Perna maxillata.''^ On the east 

 bank of the Patuxent River, moreover, near the mouth of St. 

 Leonard's Creek, Conrad observed innumerable casts of Perna 

 maxillata imbedded in a stratum of fine siliceous sand, and rest- 

 ing on the fragmentary^ rock considered by him as the " founda- 

 tion of the peninsula" (B. N. I., p. 184). 



We should naturally look for some deposit contemporaneous 

 with that occurring on the west bank of the Patuxent, at some 

 point northeast of that locality where a section may present itself. 

 This we find at Easton, on the Choptank, where the mol- 

 luscous fossil fauna corresponds very closely with that observed 

 on the former river. The deposits of the older period, on the 

 other hand, reappear in Cumberland County, New Jersey, in the 

 ** Miocene marl " of Shiloh, containing the following as.semblage 

 of fossils (Cook, " Geology of New Jersey," 18G8, p. 297) : 




32 HIOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



Bivalves. 



OstreA Mauricensis, Astarte Thomasii, 



" percrassa, Venus Ducatellii, 



Plicatula densata, Periploma alta, 



Carditamera aculeata, Corbula elevata, 



" arata, Saxicava myieformis. 



Craseatella melina, 



Four species of the above are also found in Maryland, three of 

 which, Ostrea percrassa, Grassatella melina., and Corhida elevata, 

 are found, I believe, exclusively in the deposits designated as 

 those of the older period. None are recent forms. 



The small percentage of living forms occurring in the " older 

 deposits," as compared -with that of the " newer," leaves little 

 doubt for the inference that the deposits in question were formed 

 at two different periods, the latest of which clearly belongs to the 

 Miocene. A comparative examination of some of the peculiar 

 fossil forms of the older deposits, together with the extremely low 

 percentage of living forms, seems to indicate an age more nearh' 

 Oligocene than Miocene, although perhaps not a single Eocene 

 species is represented. This last fact need not surprise us, however) 

 as the relationship of the Oligocene to the Miocene appears to be 

 greater in almost all the localities of its representation than to the 

 Eocene. The Eocene, moreover, of Marjland is represented only 

 by a verj^ limited number of fossils, and Conrad, himself, has called 

 attention to the fact, that there appears to exist a greater amount 

 of difference between the Eocene and Miocene formations than 

 obtains between the Secondar}' and Tertiary, or between the 

 Devonian and Carboniferous systems (B. N. I., p. 177). The fol- 

 lowing comparison may serve to throw some light upon the rela- 

 tive age of the deposits in question : 



Perma mazillata, Lam. 



This species agrees thoroughly with the figure and description 

 of the same given by Goldfuss in the " Pectrefacta Germanise " 

 (vol. ii, p. 106), and to which the locality Weinheim (Oligocene) 

 is assigned. The sub-Apennine species, formerly' classed under 

 the same name, is considered by Deshaj-es to be distinct, and he 

 has applied to it the specific name of Soldanii (Lamarck, '■^Animaux 

 stans Vertebres,^^ 2d ed., vol. vii, p. 79). A second species of Perna, 

 the P. Sandber geri ^ D esh. , a\so occurs in the Oligocene locality of 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 33 



Weinheim (Sandherger,^^ Conchy lien des 3Iainzer Tertidrbeckens,^' 

 p. 367). J 



Mytilas inourva, Conr. 



This large species of Mytilus may perhaps be taken as the rej)- 

 resentative of M. Haidingeri, HJ.rnes {^''FoHsilen Mollusken des 

 Tertidrheckena von TlTen," Ahhand. d. k. k. geolog. lieichsanstalt, 

 iv, p, 356), found both in the Oligocene (Eggenburg) and Miocene 

 divisions of the Vienna basin. Rolle (Sitzungsberichte d. k. Akad. 

 d. Wisseyh-fchaften. 1859, p. 64) and Sandberger consider the 3/. 

 Jlaidingeri as the equivalent of M. F(nija.-<i, Brongn., occurring at 

 numerous Oligocene localities of the Vienna and Mentz basins. 



Isooordia Markoei, Cunr. 



This Isocardia is, it appears to me, erroneousl}' referred by 

 Hlrnes {loc. cit., p. 165) to the /. cor, L., from which it is very 

 readih' distinguished by its relatively much greater height, and 

 greater development of the umVK)nos. It is a singular fact, that 

 this species of Isocardia was followed in the later period by the 

 /. frafenia* Say, which is barely distinguishable from fossil 

 examples of the /. cor from Astigiana and Sicily. 



It is worth}- of remark, that Rolle (loc. cit., p. 81), as early 

 as 1859, onl}' four years after Beyrich first applied the term Oligo- 

 cene to some of the middle Tertiary deposits of northern Germany, 

 hinted at the possible existence of the same formation on the 

 banks of the Patuxent, his conclusions being drawn from an 

 examination, among other fossils, of specimens of Lucina anodonta, 

 Say, Area idonca, Conr., and Cardium laqxeatum, Conr. 



* On comparison with specimens from the English Crag this species will 

 be found to differ very broadly from the /. ( Cyprina i rustica of Sowerby, 

 with which it has been confounded. 




34 '.PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



CARCINOLOGICAL NOTES No. I. 

 liy J. S. KiNGSIiEY. 



^ It is the intention of the writer in this series of notes to give 

 descriptions of new species, rectifications of synonymy, facts 

 rehiting to geographical distribution, and other matters of im- 

 portance concerning the Decapoda. Unless otherwise state'd all 

 specimens aie in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



Genus PSEUDOTHELPHUSA Saussure. 

 {Potamia Latr. et Boaeia Edw. preoc.) 

 Psendothelphusa latifrons. 



Potamia latifrons Randall, .Journal of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, viii. p. 120. 



Carapax smooth, regions and sutures indistinct. Frontal crest 

 very prominent, uninterrupted. Front reflexed, making with 

 the surface of carapax an angle of about 45°, its margin undu- 

 lating and its surface and margin granulate. From the front 

 arise processes wdiich all but join the inferior margin of the orbit. 

 Superior margin of orbit crenulated. Anterolateral teeth more 

 prominent than in any other of the genus and extending back to 

 the posterior third of the carapax. Below, the cai'apax is everj-- 

 where granulate and especially so on the sub-branchial regions 

 and near the mouth. Inferior margins of orbits denticulate. 

 Chelipeds nearly equal. Anterior surface of meros granulate, as 

 are the outer portions of carpus and upper portions of the hands. 

 The dactyli with rows of small tubercles above. 



The species is a true Pseudolhelphusa ^ the antennae being as in 

 that genus, but the reflexed front gives it a peculiar appearance 

 and with the larger anterolateral teeth will readily separate it 

 from all other known forms. The emargination of the external 

 margin of the orbit is no more marked than in P. cJtilensis (Edw. 

 and Lucas) Smith, the type of which, by the way, is in the 

 Museum of the Academy. 



Pseudothelpusa sinaatifrons (A. M.-Edw.) Smith. 



The locality of this species was not known to Alphonse Milne- 

 Edwards. There are two males in the Academy's collection from 

 San Domingo (W. M. Gabb), 




1880. J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PFIILADKLPUIA. 



.55 



Genus DILOCAECINUS. 



Dilocarcinus pardalinus Gersteecker, Aicliiv fiir Naturgeschichle xxii, 

 p. 148, 185G. 

 Gerstaecker gives doubtfully South America as the habitat of 

 this species. There are specimens with the label " ? Upper 

 Amazon, Dr. Wilson." 



Dilocarcinus spinifrons, nov. 



Carapax regularly arcuate, regions obsolete, sides arcuate, armed 

 with four spines besides the spiiiiform angle of the orbit ; the 

 margins of the spines finely serrate. Superior margin of the orbit 

 obscurel}' crenulate, inferior denticulate with a strong spine near 

 the interior angle. Front advanced, with about fourteen spines. 

 A spine at the anterolateral angles of the buccal area. Chelipeds 

 sub-equal, meros with two spines at about the middle of the pos- 

 terior margin and a single one on the anterior margin at about 

 the middle, and one on the distal portion of the upper margin ; 

 the spine on the interior surface of the corpus long, slender, acute. 

 Hand with an acute spine above at the articulation of the dactylus, 

 fingers with the denticulations fine but acute. Ambulatory feet 

 less dilated than is usual in this genus. The spined front readily 

 separates this from all other species. 



Upper Amazon, Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Genus THELPHUSA (including Geothelphnsa Stm.) 



Of this genus forty-five species have been described. The 

 localities from which I have examined specimens are marked with 

 an exclamation point (!). 



africana A. M.-Edw. West Africa. 



anchietSB Capello. West Africa, 



andersoniana Wood-Mnson. Burmah. 

 angnstifrons A. M.-Edw. Australia, 

 aubryi M.-EJw. 



West Coast Africa (!) ; Natal (!). 



axtrantia Ilej'klots. 



pfUi Ilcrklots. 

 atkinsoniana Woud-Mason. 



Northern India, 

 austeniana Wood-Mason. India, 



bayonioa Cnpcllo. West Africa, 



bayonica var. a Capello. West Africa. 

 berardi Savigny. 



Egypt, Nile (!); Red Sea. 

 cllilenBis (Ilellcr) A. M.-Edw. Chili. 



corrugata Heller. Madras, Java, 



crassa A. M.-Edw. Australia, 



cristata A. M.-Edw. East Indiesd). 



dehaani White. Japan. 



herardi DcIIaan. 



jiiponica Ilerklots. 



denticulata M.-Edw. China, 



depressa Krauss. Port Natal, 



difformis JI.-Edw. Red Sea. 



edwardsii \Vood Mason. Burmah. 



fluviatilis (Bose.) Latr. Mediterranean 



Region, Greece (!), Ga;<rda Sca(!), 



(Museum Peabody Academy). 



grapsoides White. Manilla. 



? siilxpindrata Qerst. 



goudoti M.-Edw. Madagascar. 




%B 



PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



gaerini M.-Edw. 

 hispida Wood-Mason, 

 hydrodromus Gorst. 

 indioa Latr. 



canicularis Westwood. 



? auraiitia Qcrsta;cker, 



? roliifida Freycinet. 

 inflata M.-£dw. 

 jagori von Martens. 

 laevis Wood- Mason, 

 larnaudi A. M -Edw. 

 lesohenaulti Edw. 



India (!), Mau 

 lugubris Wood-Mason. 

 margaritaria A. M.-Edw. 

 ailotioa M. Edw. Nile. 



To this list I would add three more : 



Thelphusa emarginata nov. 



Carapax glabrous, longitudinally strongly arched. Post-frontal 

 crest continuous, nearly straight, obscurely orenulate, epibranchial 

 tooth obsolete, a tooth between the extremity of the post-frontal 

 crest and the angle of the orbit. Protogastric region very short, 

 front about one-fourth the width of carapax, slightly sinuate. 

 External angle of orbit slightly emarginate. Anterolateral 

 margin cristate ; crest, however, soon becoming obsolete. Chelipeds 

 sub-equal, meros with the margins tuberculate and with a strong 

 spine on the distal portion. Upper and outer surface of carpus 

 with indistinct squamse, inner portion two-spined, the proximal 

 spine exhibiting a tendency to become bifid. Hands with the 

 upper margin obsoletely tuberculate, fingers roughened, not 

 gaping. Ambulatory feet slender, compressed. 



Is very near T. depressa Krauss, but differs from that species in 

 the narrower and straighter front, the tooth just behind the angle 

 of the orbit, and in the non-gaping fingers of the chelipeds. 



Length 34 mm., breadth 56 mm. 



West Africa, Du Chaillu ; Port Natal, Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



The name is proposed on account of the emargination of the 

 orbit. 



Thelpbusa enodis nov. 



Carapax smooth ; post frontal crest wanting. Epibranchial 

 tooth very small. Front narrow, strongly curved downward, its 

 margin concave. Chelipeds unequal, hands with the inferior 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ^ 



margin regularly arcuate. Is very closely allied to T. laevifs, tut 



differs in the flatter carapax, the concave front, and the regularly 



arcuate lower margin of the hands. In all other respects Mr. 



Wood-Mason's description and figures (Journal Asiatic Society of 



Bengal, vol. xl, p. 201, PI. xiv, fig. 1-6) would well apply to it. 



Ceylon. 

 Thelphnsa rugosa nov. 



Carapax depressed, cervical suture and post frontal crest well 



marked, the crest interrupted. P>6nt nearly straight ; proto- 



gastric region nearly smooth ; epibranchial tooth small, directed 



inward, lateral portions of carapax with transverse rugje as in 



many Grap!<i., the margin of the anterolateral portion obscurely 



crenulate. Chelipeds subequal ; the outer surface of meros and 



carpus with squamose rugae, the rugae on the hands indistinct. 



Carpal joints of the first three pairs of ambulatory feet with the 



sides cristate ; dactyli pointed. 



Ceylon. 

 Length 26 mm., breadth 32 mm. 



This species is nearest 2\ denticulata, but will be readily 

 identified from that species by the more crenulated margin 

 between the orbit and the epi])ranchial tooth, and by the rugae on 

 the lateral portions of the carapax. 



Aoanthocyclas gayi Edwards and Lucas. 



The type of this species is in the museum of the Academy. 




38 PROCEROINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



DESCEIPTION OF A F(ETAL WALRUS. 

 BY IIAHRISON ALLEN, M.D. 



The Academy is the possessor of a fa'tal \valru.s. which was 

 presented by Dr. I. I. Hays, and bronght by h'un from the Arctic 

 region of eastern North America. I have thought that a iigure 

 with measurements of this rare, if not unique, specimen would be 

 of vahie. 



The specimen is straight, or nearly so, and it is by this simple 

 test distinguished from other embryos of Carnivora. There is 

 neither flexure of the head upon the trunk, 

 or the trunk upon itself The limbs are 

 folded close to the trunk, this feature being 

 most pronounced in the inferior pair, which 

 are inclined upward upon the ventral surface 

 of the body, and carry between them the 

 rudimentary tail. The median margin of the 

 first toe of the anterior extremit}^ bears a 

 small, rounded membranous lobe, or lappet. 

 The muzzle exhibits the future position of 

 tlie vibrissaa b^- six rows of minute papillae. 

 The muzzle projects slightly beyond the line 

 of the mouth. The position of the future 

 nostrils is seen b}' two slightly convergent 

 slits. 



The vent is a semicircular slit-like opening 

 upon the lateral and posterior surfaces of a 

 rounded nipple-shaped organ, which is prob- 

 ably the future penis or clitoris. 



T'he eye is closed, rather prominent, and 

 presents a palpebral fissure, which is directed obliquely upward 

 and forward. 



The auricle is represented by a membranous fold laid close to 

 the head. The slit-like opening defining its position lies 3^"' 

 behind the e^'c, and extends slightly downwards and forwards. 

 The auricle extends in advance of this slit to the distance of V", 




ISSO.J NATIIKAI. SCrKNOKB <iK J'lri 1. MiKl.lMI l.\. .i'J 



where it ends in ;i inimitc elevation. A prolie can l»e re:i<lily 

 iDHortod in the slit, and can he passecl forward. 



'I'he eolor of the specimen is a dull white or wa.xy. 



No trace of hair is anvwliere visihle. 

 Mcdsurrinrnt.i. 



Length of specimen, 1" 9'". 



Length of head, 9". 



Width of body at widest part, 1". 



Length of anterior margin of anterior extremity', 45'". 



Ijcngth of posterior margin of anterior extremit}', 2'". 



Length of anterior margin of posterior extremity, 4'". 



Length of posterior margin of posterior extremity, 4'" 



Distance between vent and navel, 7y". 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON THE NUDIBRANCHIATE GASTEROPOD MOLLUSCA OF THE NORTH 

 PACIFIC OCEAN, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THOSE OF ALASKA. 



BY DR. R. BERGH, COPENHAGEN. 



PART II. 



DIAULULA, Bgh. 



Diaulula, Bgh., Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Pbilipp.II, ii), Ileftxiii, 1878, 

 p. 567 ; Heft xiv, 1878, p. xxxv. Gattungen nordischer Dorideu, Arch, 

 f. Naturg., xxxv, 1, 1879, p. 343. 



Forma corporis subdepressa. Dorsum minutissime villosum, holo- 

 sericeum, moUe. Tentacula digitiformia. Apertura branchialis ro- 

 tundata, crenulata ; folia branchialia tripinnata. Podarium antice 

 bilabiatum, labio superiore medio fisso. 



Aimatura labialis nulla. Lingua rhachide nuda, pleuris multiden- 

 tatis, dentibus hamatis. Prostata magua ; penis inermis. 



In their general form the Diaululae^ somewhat resemble the Disco- 

 dorides and the Thordisas,'^ although their habitus still is peculiar. 

 The back is villous, as in these genera and especially as in the Thor- 

 disae, but finer and more velvet-like. The tentacles are finger-shaped, 

 smaller than in the Discodo7'ides, larger than in the Thordisse. The 

 branchial-slit is rounded, crenulated ; the branchial leaves tripinnate. 

 The anterior margin of the foot bilobed, the upper lip broader, viiih a 

 median fissure. As in the Thordisse.^ there is no armature of the 

 lip-disk. The radula nearly agrees with that of the Discodorides; 

 the rhachis is naked ; on the pleurae there is a rather broad series of 

 plates of the usual hook-shape. The stomach is enclosed in the liver 

 (not free, as in the Discodorides and in the Thordisse). As in the 

 Discodorides, there is a large prostate and an unarmed penis. 



Only the following species appears to be hitherto known, from the 

 northern Pacific. 



1. D. Sandiegensis (Cooper). 



' Diaulus, medicus, cf. Martialis, T, 48, p. 40. 



' Cf. my Malacolog. Untersuch. (Semper, Philipi^ II, 11), Heft xii, 1877, 

 p. 518, (Discodoris) ; p. 540 [Thordisa). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI LADELTMII A. 41 



1. D. Sandiegensis, roopfr. Plate V, fig. .'5-9. 



Doris {Actinocydus?) SaiidifigensU, Cooper, Proc. of the California 

 Acad, of Xat. Sciences, ii (l.%2), 1803, p. 204;' iii (1803); 186«, p. 58. 



Color corporis e brunneo lutescens, anniilis nigris maculatus ; vel 

 brunneus. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum orient. (San Diego Bay; Santa Bar- 

 bara ; Sitka Harbor; Puget Sound). 



According to Cooper, numerous specimens of this species were 

 found from November to May among grass on mud flats in San Diego 

 Bay, at or near low water mark ; according to Cooper, it is a very 

 "active" species; Cooper later obtained two specimens at Santa Bar- 

 bara Island, on rocks at low water. During the expedition to Alaska 

 a specimen ^vas taken by Dall in Sitka Harbor, on algie, in August, 

 IStJo, at the depth of six fathoms (another in August, 1870, in Puget 

 Sound, by Dr. Kennerly, on algai, at low water). 



Through the kindness of Dall, I have seen the original (rather 

 rough) drawings of tins species by Cooper; a colored one represents 

 the back bright chocolate-brown, with six black rings, of which there 

 are two smaller ones between the rhinophoria ; the rbinophoria, the 

 gill and the foot seem bright-yellowish ; one figure shows five, another 

 six branchial leaves. 



The length of the first specimen, sent to me preserved in spirits, 

 was about 22.0 mm., the height reaching 9.0 mm., and the breadth 

 13.0 mm.; the breadth of the foot reached 10.0 mm., the height of 

 the rhinophoria 2.0 mm., the branchial leaves 3.3 mm. The color 

 was uniformly brownish-gray ; nearly symmetrically on each side of 

 the true back was an annuhir black spot. 



The form of the rather soft body elongate-oval, not much depressed. 

 The head quite concealed between the mantle and the foot ; the 

 outer mouth had the form of a vertical slit ; at each side a short 

 finger-shaped tentacle. The margin of the rather large rhinophor- 

 lioles rather prominent, crenulate ; the rhinophoria strong, the club 



' " Tale brownisli-yellow, with large, annular, brown spots, irregularly 

 scattered, varying from twelve to twenty, or entirely brown. Surface 

 slightly rough ; .sometime.s a little tuberculated. Dorsal tentacles conical, 

 retractile ; branchia; large, rising in five parts, which become tripiimately 

 divided, expanding so as to cover the posterior third of the body like an 

 nuibrcna. Mouth proboscidiform, with two short lateral tentacles. Length, 

 3^ inches; lueadth, "2^ inches; heij;ht, I inch.- CoOvrr, 1. c. 

 4 




4^^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



with about thirty leaves (on each side). The back all over minutely 

 and densely villous (fig. 3 ''. The margin of the rather wide (5.0 mm.), 

 roundish branchial aperture like the margin of the rhinophor-holes, 

 prominent, finely crenulate ; the branchial leaves (retracted) six in 

 number, very strong, tri- or qnadripinnate. The anus strong, about 15 

 mm. high, cylindrical, closing the branchial ring posteriorly ; the renal 

 pore as usual. The edge of the mantle rather thick, projecting about 

 '2.0 mm. from the body ; the sides low. The genital opening as 

 usual, with two distinct apertures at the bottom. The foot strong, 

 broad, somewhat narrower towards both ends ; in the anterior margin 

 a strong furrow, towards the median line deeper and forming two lips ; 

 the superior broader and divided in the median line. 



The cerebro- visceral ganglia kidney-shaped, the visceral larger than 

 the cerebral ; the pedal of roundish contour, scarcely larger: than the 

 visceral. The buccal ganglia of oval form, connected by a short 

 commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal roundish, short-stalked, in size 

 about one-fifth of the former, with one very large and one large cell. 



The eyes short-stalked, with black pigment and yellowish lens. The 

 otocysts scarcely smaller than the eyes, overcrowded with otokonia of 

 the usual kind. The leaves of the rhinophoria strengthened with long, 

 perpendicular spicula, calcified at the surface. The tentacula with a 

 mass of shorter, but otherwise similar spicules, lying irregularly. 

 The villi of the back closely set with perpendicular spicula (fig. 3)-. 

 The anal papilla with long, perpendicular spicules ; the stalk of the 

 branchial leaves with many shorter spicula, irregularly situated ; in the 

 leaves themselves were no spicules. In the interstitial connective 

 tissue large spicules were seen rather sparsely. 



The oral tube was about 1.5 mm. long, wide, with strong longitudi- 

 nal folds. The bulbus pharyngeus only about 4.0 mm. long, by a 

 height of 2.0 mm., and a breadth of 4.0 mm. ; the rasp-sheath very 

 prominent on the hinder part of the under side of the bulbus ; the 

 inner mouth with a yellowish, not thin, cuticula. The tongue with 

 nine rows of teeth, in the rasp-sheath also eleven rows of developed 

 and two of not quite developed teeth, the total number thus being 

 twenty-two. In tlie posterior rows of the tongue the number of plates 

 was twenty-eight or twenty-nine, on each side, and seemed in the suc- 

 ceeding rows not to surpass thirty. The color of the teeth horn- 

 yellowish ; the height of the outermost 0.06 to 0.08 mm., the height 

 rising to about 0.18 mm. The form of the teeth as usual; the wing 

 rather narrow ; the innermost (fig. 5aa, b) not very different from the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 43 



Others (fig. 5, 6), the body of the outermost three or four (fig. iaa, 1), 

 as usual, of reduced size. 



The glandulop salivales (5.0 or 0.0 mm.) long, in the anterior part 

 about one-third larger than in the rest, measuring 1.0 mm. in diameter, 

 yellowish ; in the rest of the length much narrower, whitish. 



The fcsophagus is about 9.0 mm. long, rather wide. The stomach 

 is included in the liver, not spacious. The intestine appears on the 

 surface of the liver in the usual manner, passing forwards, forming a 

 short flexure, and running straight backwards to the anal tube, which 

 has in its interior many fine longitudinal folds ; the total length of the 

 intestine about 20.0 mm., with fine longitudinal folds through its whole 

 length. The cavity was empty. The liver yellowish, about 17.0 mm. 

 long, by a breadth of 8.0 mm., and a height of about 6.0 or 7.0 mm. ; 

 the anterior end truncate, the posterior end rounded ; on the riglit side 

 of the forepart a flattened impression for the anterior genital mass. 

 The vesica fellea, as usual, behind and at the left side of the pylorus, 

 elongate-pyriform, grayish, taken together with its duct about 2.5 mm. 

 in length. 



The heart as usual. The two gland. sanguineiE as usual, whitish ; 

 the foremost more triangular, about 3.5 mm. long; the posterior 

 broader, about 2.0 mm. long. 



The gland, hermaphrodisiaca witli a rather thick yellow layer 

 clothing the greater part of the surface of the liver (except the pos- 

 terior endj ; in the lobules of the organ were rather large o'jgene cells 

 and masses of zo'Jsperms The anterior genital mass large, com- 

 pressed, about 10.0 mm. long, by a height of 6.3 mm., and a breadth 

 of 3.0 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct strong, grayish, 

 when unrolled about 25-0 mm. long, somewhat coiled on the anterior 

 end of the left side of the mass and on its inferior flattened edge be- 

 hind the large prostate; it reaches a diameter of 1,2 mm. The male 

 branch of the ampulla (fig. 8a) thin, white, passing into the narrow 

 inferior end of the prostate, thus forms the fore-end of the whole 

 genital mass. The prostate (fig. Hb) is of dirty yellow color, flattened 

 and irregularly pyriform, the length about 6.3 mm., by a breadth of 

 as much as 3.0 mm. ; the spermatoduct (fig. 8c) issuing from the 

 upper part of the posterior side of the gland, in its first thicker part 

 nearly as long as the prostate ; in the rest of its length thinner, mak- 

 ing several coils and passing (fig. 9a) into the male organ. The re- 

 tracted penis (fig. 8d) strong, about 2.5 mm. long, the pra^putium with 

 tine longitudinal folds (fig. 9), from the aperture upwards and nearly 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



tilleil by the glans, which hud nearly the form ol" a human penis, with 

 a well developed head with round aperture ; this head seemed covered 

 with very small, low and rounded, soft papilhw. The spermatotheca 

 were wldiish, spherical, of the diameter of about 2.3 mm., filled with 

 epithelium, fatty matter and altered semen ; the chief duct a little 

 longer than the spermatotheca, gradually passing into the simple 

 vagina, that was about half as much in length (and was filled with 

 sperma). The spermatocysta of violet-gray color, somewhat flattened, 

 of oval outline, of the length of about 2.3 mm., filled with sperma. 

 The posterior half, or a little less, of the large mucous and albuminous 

 gland, chalk-white ; the anterior, more tlian half, of grayish or (on 

 the left side) yellowish color ; the structure as usual. 



A variety of the species (according to Dall, it also belongs to this 

 species) was, moreover, obtained by Dr. Kennerly, in August, 1873, 

 on ulgJE, at low water, in Puget Sound, Washington Territory 

 (fig. 6-9). 



The single individual was rather large ; the length 40.0 mm., by a 

 breadth of 28.0 mm., and a height of 13.0 mm. ; the breadth of the 

 foot 15.0 mm., of the margin of the mantle 11.0 mm.; the height of 

 the rhinophoria 5.0 mm., of the branchial leaves nearly 5.0 mm. The 

 color of the upper side obscure olive-gray, with rather large (diameter 

 about 4.0 mm.) black and blackish spots ; the under side yellowish. 

 The general form and the head, with the tentacles, as above described. 

 The openings of the rhinophor-holes as above, the club with about 

 twenty five leaves. The branchial opening as above (diameter, 3.5 

 mm.) ; the retracted branchial leaves six in number ; the anal tube 

 nearly 3.0 mm. high. The back villous, as in the typical individual. 

 The foot as above. 



The peritoneum colorless, without larger spicula ; but in the region 

 of the ventricle of the heart the pericardium is brownish. 



The central nervous system as above ; the proximal olfactory 

 ganglia bulbiforra, a little larger than the buccal ; the distal ones 

 smaller than the proximal, at the root of the club of the rhinophoria. 

 The buccal ganglia of oval form ; the commissure between them 

 being about one-third of the largest diameter of the ganglia. The eyes, 

 the octocysts, the leaves of the rhinophoria and the villi of the back as 

 above. 



The oral tube large, of a length and diameter of 4 mm. The 

 bulbus pharyngeus 4.0 mm. long, by a heiglit of 4 and a breadth of 

 3.5 mm. ; the sheath of the radula less prominent than in the former 




1880.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OP PEIILADELPfTI A. 45 



spcfMincn ; the cuticiila of the lip disk as above. The tongue with 

 ten rows of plates, further hack eleven developed and two younger 

 rows, the total nutnher thus twenty-three. In the posterior rows of 

 the tongue there were as many as tliirty-four dental plates on each 

 side of the rhachis ; they resembled those above described (fig. 0, 7). 



The salivary glands yellowish, ribbon-shaped. The stomach as 

 above. The anteriorly proceeding part of the intestine 7.0 mm. long, 

 by a diameter of about 2.0 mm. ; the receding part about 20.0 mm. 

 long, by a diameter of 1.5 mm. In the stomach and the rectum were 

 pieces of a Keratospongia and different Diatomacea. The liver 2.3.0 

 mm. long, by a breadth and a height of 11.0 mm.; the anterior end 

 truncate, with a median deep and narrow slit for the (esophagus and 

 for the intestine ; the right anterior half of the liver rather excavated, 

 especially beneath ; the substance of the liver yellow. 



The foremost glandula sanguinea about 4.5 mm. long, by a breadth 

 of 2.5 ; the posterior -t.O mm. long, by a breadth of 2.5 mm.; both very 

 flattened (about 0.8 mm. thick), grayish-yellow. The kidney with its 

 whitish network, contrasting prettily with the yolk-yellow hermaphro- 

 ditic gland ; the urinary chamber not wide ; the tube on its floor thin. 



The hermaphroditic gland clothing nearly the whole liver (with its 

 posterior end\ as in the former specimen. The anterior genital mass 

 about 11.5 mm. long, by a height of 9.5 and a breadth of 5.0 mm., the 

 ducts also projecting '.].0 mm The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct 

 yellowish-white, about 35.0 mm. long, by a diameter of 1.25 mm., run- 

 ning across the upper part of the left side of the genital mass, and 

 forming several windings on the anterior part of the upper margin. 



Tlie large prostate as above (fig. 86), dirty yellow ; 7.5 mm. long, 

 by a diameter at the upper end of about 4.0 mm. ; the part (fig. 8c), 

 from which the spermatoduct proceeds, much brighter than the rest of 

 the organ. The thin spermatoduct forming (fig. 8) a little coil at the 

 upper end of the penis; when unrolled about 12 mm. long. This last 

 (fig. Srf, 9) organ strong, about 4.0 mm. long, by a diameter of 1.5 

 mm.; the prominent orifice in the vestibulum (fig. Be) with strong 

 longitudinal folds; the glans conical, filling nearly half (fig. 9) of the 

 cavity of the organ, the surface (under a power of 350) smooth. The 

 spermatotheca whitish, spherical, with a diameter of 3.5 mm. ; the 

 spermatocysta short, sausage-shaped, about 4.0 mm. long, of reddish- 

 yellow color. The duct from the spermatotheca to the vagina rather 

 thick, 3.5 mm. long; the vagina larger than the penis, H.O mm. long, 

 bv a diameter of 2.5 ; the inside with fine longitudinal folds, and with 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



spernia in the cavity. The mucous gland large, 9.0 mm. long, by a 

 height of 7.0 and a thickness of 4.0 mm.; whitish, yellowish chalk- 

 white and yolk-yellow ; the duct rather short, with the usual strong 

 fold. The vestibulum with longitudinal folds. 



JORUNNA, Bcrgh. 



Jorunna, Bgh., Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Pliilipp. 11, ii) Heft x, 187C, 

 p. 414, note. Gatt. nord . Doriden, Arch, fiir Naturges., xxxv, i, 1879, 

 p. 346. 



Corpus subdepressum ; dorsum minutissime granulatum, sub-asperum, 

 branchia e foliis tripinnatis formata ; tentacula digitiformia ; poda- 

 rium sat latum, margine anteriore sulcatum, labio superiore latiore et 

 medio fisso. 



Armatura labialis nulla. Radula rhachide nuda, pleuris multiden- 

 tatis, dentibus hamatis. Penis stylo armatus ; glandula et hasta 

 amatoria. 



This genus was established by the author on the D. Johnstoni (18T6) 

 in reference to the results of the anatomical examination of Hancock 

 and P^mbleton ; he regarded it as nearly allied to the Kentrodorides, 

 just founded by him.' After the present examination of the D. John- 

 stoni by the author he is not entirely certain of a generic difference 

 between the Jorunnce^ and the Kentrodorides. The latter have been 

 examined only from rather insufficient material, and the basta has not 

 been seen in any of the species, only a papilla in connection with a 

 peculiar gland ; still the Kentrodorides are of a quite different habitus, 

 very soft, and the upper lip of the anterior margin of the foot is more de- 

 veloped, while the innermost plate of the tongue is somewhat different 

 from the others. If not identical with the Kentrodorides^ the Jorunna 

 are certainly very nearly allied to them. 



The Jorunnce are rather depressed ; the back finely granulated, 

 covered with equal minute papillulas ; the retractile gill formed of tri- 

 pinnate leaves; the tentacles digitiform ; the foot rather broad, deeply 

 grooved in the front margin, and the upper lip of this larger and cleft 

 in the middle line. The lip-disk not armed, covered with a simple 

 cuticula. The rhachis of the radula naked, the pleura; with many 

 hook-formed plates. In the vestibulum genitale are four apertures : 



^ R. Bergh, Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp. II, ii) Heft x, 1876, 

 p. 413 427, Tab. XLIX-LI. 

 ^ Joiunna, Bjorais filia. Laxdala-Saga. Hafnise, 1826, p. 21. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI LADKM'HI A. 41 



one for the penis, which is armed with a stylus ; another for a hasta 

 amatoriu, through which opens a peculiar gland (quite as in the genus 

 Asteronotus) ;i a third for the vagina, and the fourth for the duct of 

 the mucous gland. 



Only one species of the genus seems hitherto known, belonging to 

 the northern part of the Atlantic Ocean. The spawn of the species 

 is known from Alder and Hancock, but nothing else is known of the 

 biology of the animal. 



1. /. Johnstoni (A. et H.). 



Doris Johnstoni, A. et H. Oceanura Atlantic, septcntr. 



Jorunna Johnstoni (A. et II.). Plate VIII, fig. 19; Plivte IX, fig. 1-1 1. 



Doris Johnstoni, Alder et Hanc. Monogr. Part I, 1845, fam. 1, PI. •") ; Part 



V, 1851, fam. 1, PI. 2. f. 8-11. 

 Doris Johnstoni, Hanc. et Embleton, Anat. of Doris. Philos. Trans. 1852, 



II, p. 212, 215, 216, 220, 233, PI. XII, f. 2, 10 ; PI. XIV, f. 9, 10 ; 



PI. XV, f. 1-2 ; pi. XVII, f. 2-3. 

 Doris Johnstoni, Forbes and Hauley, Hist, of Br. Moll., Ill, 1853, p. 564. 

 .' Doris tomentosa, Cuv., Fischer. Journ. de Conchyl., 3me Ser., x, 1870, 



p. 290 293 ; XV, 1875, p. 211, note. 

 .' Doris tomentosa, C. Verany, catalogo, 1846, p. 16-21. Ver., Ilanc, et 



Embleton, 1. c. 1852, p. 220.'^ 

 .' Doris tomentosa, C. Philippi, Eu. Moll. Sic. I., 183, p. 104 ; II, 1844, p. 



79, Tab. XIX, f. 9. 



Color flavescens, dorso interdum maculis fuscis seriatis ornatus ; 

 rhinophoria fusco-maculata ; branchia albescens. 

 Hab. Oceanum Atlanticum septentr. 



This species, that was first described by Johnston under the name 

 of D. obvelata (Miiller), was (1845) established by Alder and Han- 

 cock. Hancock gave a series of anatomical remarks upon this very 

 interesting form and of figures referable to it. Since then nothing 

 new seems to have been published about the species; but a few months 

 ago I (1. c.) gave a short notice of the generic characters of the 

 group. 



Of this form I have only examined a single specimen, captured in 

 March, 1870, in the neighborhood of Hellebak, on the north coast of 

 Seeland (Denmark). 



' R. Bergh. Ueber das Gesclilecht Asteronotus, Ehrbg. Jahrb. der Dout- 

 schen Malakozool. Ges., iv, 1877, p. 161-173. Taf. I-II. 



'^ According to Hancock and Embleton (1. c, p. 220), the dart (hasta 

 amatoria) in Doris Johnstoni is straight, in D. tomentosa, Ver., curved. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF TlIK ACADEMY OF [1880 



The specimen was of a uniform yellowish color ; the rhinophoria 

 finely dotted with brown (but not tlie branchial leaves). The length 

 of the rather contracted and somewhat contorted individual was about 

 18.0 mm. by a greatest breadth of lO.O and a height of about 7.0 mm. ; 

 the height of the (retracted) rhinophoria 2.5, of the tentacles nearly 

 1.5, of the (retracted) gill 2.5 mm. ; the greatest breadth of the mantle- 

 margin 3.5 mm., of the foot 5 mm. 



The form is elongate-oval, the mantle-margin rather thick, not very 

 broad. The back covered all over with very minute granules, some- 

 times, especially on the middle of the back, crowded in irregular and 

 roundish small groups ; the under side of the mantle-margin smooth. 

 The (contracted) openings of the rhino[.hor-holes appear as a simple 

 transverse slit, the granules of the back reaching forward to the open- 

 ing, those in this neighborhood not larger than the rest. The club of 

 the rhinophoria stout, with about thirty' broad leaves. The opening of 

 the gill-cavity small, transverse, triangular-crescentic, with the convexity 

 forwards (as contracted) ; the granules of the back reaching to the very 

 margin of the gill-slit, but not larger than the rest. The gill consisting 

 of eleven branchial leaves,^ five lateral pairs and an antei'ior unpaired 

 leaf; the anal tube low, truncate, nearly central; the renal pore at its 

 right side. The head rather small ; the tentacles digitiform, somewhat 

 flattened. The sides of the body nearly imperceptible ; the genital 

 opening contracted.^ The foot rather strong, somewhat pointed at the 

 end ; the anterior margin with a deep furrow, the superior lip rather 

 strong and prominent, cleft in the median line. 



The peritoneum with very fine dark points (brown-black) spread 

 everywhere ; entirely without true spicules. 



The central nervous system showed the cerebro-visceral ganglia 

 somewhat elongate, thicker and broader in the posterior part, nearly 

 not excavated in the exterior margin ; the pedal ones of oval form, 

 larger than the visceral. The olfactory ganglia very short-stalked, 

 bulbiform, a little smaller than the buccal ; a small optic ganglion, the 

 optic nerve short. At the inferior side of the posterior part of the 

 right visceral (fig la) ganglion is a short-stalked (fig. lb) ganglion 

 genitale giving off several nerves, one of them has at its root another 

 ganglion (fig. Ic). The common commissure not longer than the 



' Alder and Hancock mention merely ten to fifteen leaves. 

 ^ Alder and Hancock mention fifteen leaves. 



' The representation of the penis (?) (1. c. PI. 5, f. 3) by Alder and Han- 

 cock cannot be correct. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF P HILADF.I.PIIIA. 40 



transverse diameter of the pedal ganglion, rather strong. The buccal 

 ganglia of roundish form, connected through a very short commissure ; 

 the gastro-cesophageal ganglia short-stalked, reaching scarcely one- 

 quarter of the t^ize of the former, with one very large and some 

 smaller cells.' 



The eyes with black pigment and shining, horn-yellow lens. The 

 otocysts at the slight emargination at the outer margin of the cerebro- 

 visceral ganglia, crammed with otokoniaof the usual kind. Tlie broad 

 leaves of the rhinophoria stiffened in the usual way by long, much 

 calcified spicula, perpendicular on the free margin of the leaves. The 

 skin of the back crowded with spicula,- mostly very large and much 

 calcified; in the rather low (height 0.5 mm.) granules (fig. 2) crowded 

 erect spicules. In the interstitial tissue of the intestines true spicula 

 are neither many nor large. 



The mouth-tube about 2.0 mm. long, strong, rather wide, quite as 

 usual. The bulbus pharjngeus 3.0 mm. long, with a height of 2.3 

 and reaching a breadth of 2.5 mm. ; the rasp-sheath also projecting 

 1.0 mm. from the hindermost part of the under side of the bulLus. The 

 form of the bulbus and its retractors as usual ; the lip-disk whitish, 

 clothed with a yellowish cuticula. The tongue of usual form ; on the 

 shining horny-yellow radula eleven rows of teeth, further backwards 

 twelve developed and four younger rows ; the total number of rows 

 thus twenty-seven.^ The teeth of yellowish color ; the height of the 

 outermost 0.06, of the next 0.08 mm. ; the height reaches at most 

 about 0.22 mm. The two foremost rows were rather incomplete, in 

 the fourth row were twenty-four, and the number of teeth tlien in- 

 creases to twenty-seven.^ The rhachis (fig. Sa) rather broad. The 

 plates of the usual form,^ with the usual wing-like expansion of the 

 exterior part of the body and of the root of the hook (figs. 4, 5 ; the 

 first (fig. 3) with lower hook, which on the succeeding teeth slowly 



' This rei)iescntation of the central nervous system in most points agrees 

 with that of Hancock and Enibleton (1. c. p. 2:«, PI. XVII, tig. 2, 3). 



- Collingwood (Annals and Mag. of N. Hist., 3 Ser., Ill, 18.J9, p. 4G2) 

 mentions the spicules of this species (from the estuary of the Mersey) as 

 "very elegant, consisting of a broad embossed i>latc with a double and 

 beautifully serrated edge, terminating abruptly in a blunt apex." 



■' Alder and Hancock mention twenty-four rows, whereof eleven were on 

 the tongue. 



* Alder and Hancock mention twenty-five plates in the rows. 



i Cf. my Malacolog. Unters. (Scmier, Plulipp. II. ii), Heft XIV., 1S7S, 

 (Astcronotus), p. GOG. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



increases in height ; then the teeth keep tlie same height and decrease 

 again in the outer part of the rows (fig. 5) ; the four to six interior 

 teeth are more erect, with shorter body and thinner liook (figs. 5, (5). 



Tlie saUvary glands long, thin, whitish.' The (rsophagus about 

 6 mm. long, rather wide, with strong longitudinal folds.- The stomach 

 small, included in the liver ; the biliary apertures as usual. 



The intestine issues through the liver behind the region of junc- 

 tion of the first and second third of the liver ; the first anteriorly pro- 

 ceeding part lodged in a groove on the superior side of the liver, not 

 passing beyond the anterior margin of that organ, about 2.5 mm. in 

 length ; the rest of the intestine about 1 0.0 mm. in length ; the diameter 

 of the intestine 0.8-1.3 mm. ; the longitudinal folds rather strong. 



The liver of yellowish color, more grayish on the surface; 9.0 mm. 

 in length, by a breadth of 5.5 and a height of 4.0 mm. ; the posterior 

 end rounded ; more than the anterior half of the under side, especially 

 its right part, is excavated (for the anterior genital mass) and behind 

 this is a deep transverse groove. The vesica fellea lying at the left 

 side of the oflshoot of the intestine, rather small, in height about 1.25 

 mm., reaching nearly to the surface of the liver, nearly cylindrical. 



The heart as usual. The sanguineous glands whitish, rather 

 flattened ; the anterior obliquely triangular with the point, as usual, 

 adhering to the under side of the junction of the two cerebral ganglia ; 

 in length 2.0 by a breadth of 1.5 mm. ; the posterior transversely 

 elongate-oval, with a breadth of 3.5 by a length of 1.5 mm. The 

 renal syrinx melon-shaped, its largest diameter about 0.T5 mm. ; its 

 free duct nearly three times as long ; a strong continuation of it pass- 

 ing along the floor of the rather large renal chamber, to the region of 

 the pylorus. 



The hermaphroditic gland spread in large groups of ramifications 

 over nearly the whole liver and by its brighter yellowish color some- 

 what contrasted with it ; in its lobules were masses of zoJsperms and 

 rather small ol'.gene cells. The anterior genital mass'' in length 5.0 by 

 a breadth of 2.5 and a height of 4.0 mm. ; the right side rather con- 

 vex, meeting the more flattened left side at the sharp superior margin. 



* They are in this way also mentioned by H. and E. (1. c, p. 215, PI, XII, 

 fig. 2cc) . 



''■ The dilatation on the oesophagus mentioned and figured by H. and E. 

 (1. c., p. 215, PI. XII, fig. 2d] could not be seen in the specimen examined 

 by me. 



^ Cf. the PI. XIV, f. 9, of Hancock and Embleton. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'UILADELPHIA. 51 



the under side flattened. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic gland 

 resting on the superior posterior part of the genital mass, whitish, 

 making a large curve, about 5.0 mm. long, with a diameter of nearly 

 1.5 mm. The ppermatoduct in its first part, as near as could be de- 

 termined, rather thick than thin, not very long, forming (fig. lie, 1e) 

 a little coil on the upper end of the penis. The penis (lig. If) cylin- 

 drical, curved, about 2.b mm. long, by a diameter of about 0.8 mm. ; 

 the inside with many longitudinal folds ; at the upper end of its cavity 

 a low truncated conical prominence (fig. ilb), with a rather wide 

 aperture (fig. 116), through which opens a little bag (fig. 11), whose 

 inside was clothed with a thin yellowish cuticula, and contained a 

 hollow, nearly colorless tube, that ould be extended by tension ; it 

 was probably pointed (the point seemed broken off) ; its length was 

 about 0.9 mm.; the spermatoduct opened (fig. 11a) in the upper part 

 of this bag. Hancock has (l. c. PI. XIV, fig. 9c, 10; PI. XV, fig. 

 1, 2) seen the penis and the "stiletto," but he too seems (1. c. p. 220) 

 not at all clear about these organs. At the side of the opening for 

 the penis in the vestibulum genitale was another aperture which led 

 into a bag, from whose bottom projected a hard, whitish, somewhat 

 compressed conical spur (fig. Id, 10), that under the infiuence of nitric 

 acid grew more pellucid, but developed very little gas ; through the 

 axis of the organ down to the fine aperture on the point, passes a 

 slender tube (fig. 10), the continuation of the fine coiled duct of the 

 gland of the organ. ^ This gland (glandula hastatoria, fig. 1e, Sd) 

 overlies the upper part of the vagina (fig. 7a, 6) ; it is heart-shaped, 

 of a transverse diameter (breadth) of 2.0, and a thickness of 1.0 mm.; 

 the gland did not contain any larger cavity. The spermatotheca (fig. 

 8a) whitish, nearly spherical, having a largest diameter of 2.5 mm. ; 

 filled with fatty cells and detritus ; the two ducts (fig. 8c, e) as usual, 

 the vagina rather wide (fig. la, b), with longitudinal folds on the in- 

 side. The spermatocysta yellowish, spherical, 1.5 mm. in diameter 

 (fig. 8i), filled with zo'.lsperms ; short-stalked. The mucous gland 

 not forming quite half of the anterior genital mass, consisting of a 

 smaller anterior biconvex part, and a large flattened wing-like poste- 

 rior part ; the space between them nearly filled by the spermatotheca 



' These organs, the gland and the spur, have also been seen (1. c, PI. 

 XV, fig. 9) by Hancock, but lie docs not mention tliem (in the text, and 

 explanation of the figures). In another of his figures (fig. 106 1 the spur 

 is designated (1. c., p. 248) as "male introniittent organ, ' and the (fig. 

 lOe, /) true penis as "penis-like organ furnished with a stiletto " 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



and the sperniatocysta, the color of the ghvml yellowish-white, on the 

 left sitle of the anterior part a central yellow mass; the duet of 

 the mucous gland rather short. 



All the former genera of Doridida; belonged to the large group of 

 Doridldee cryptobrancliiativ ;' the following are to be registered in the 

 group of Doridida; elentherohranchiatse {D. phanerohranchiatse). 

 This section is also characterized by tlie non-retractility of the gill, 

 by a sucking-crop connected with the bulbus pharyngeus and by a 

 peculiar armature of the tongue, consisting usually of a single large 

 lateral plate and a single or several outer plates. This group seems 

 chiefly limited to northern climes, and contains at present the genera 

 Aklodoris, Acanthodoris, Adalarin, Lamellidoris, Goniodoris and 

 Doridunculus,^ also Ancida, Drepania^ and Idalia. 



AKIODORIS, Bergh 

 Akiodoru, Bgh. Gattuugen nordischer Doriden, 1. c, 1879, -p. 334. 



Forma ut in LameUidoiidihus. Nothaium supra granulosura. 

 Branchia non retractilis, e foliis tripinnatis non multis et ad modum 

 ferri equini positis formata. Caput latum, veliforme ; tentaculis 

 brevibus, lobiformibus. Apej turos rhinophoriales integras. 



Discus labialis sine armatura. Ingluvies buccalis bulbo connata. 

 Radula rliachide quasi nuda ; pleuris dentibus lateralibus depressis non 

 multis; (12-13) quorum duo intimi fortiores, quasi subhamati. Penis 

 glande uncis simplicibus, furcatis vel palmatis armatus. Vagina in- 

 dumento valloso peculiari instructa. 



The animals belonging to this group resemble externally especially 

 the Lamellidorides. The back is finely granulated ; the head large, 

 veil-shaped, with sliort tentacles, which are lobate and pointed The 

 openings of the rhinophor-lioles with plain margins, surrounded by 

 several larger papilhe. The nnn retractile branchia nearly horseshoe- 

 shaped, consisting of a mediocre number of leaves. The lip-disk 



^ Cf. my "Gattungen nordisclier Doriden," 1. c. i>. 341. 



2 The genus Boridunculus of G. O. Sars (Moll, regionis arcticse Norveg., 

 1878, p. 309. Tab. 27, fig. 2a-d, Tab. XIV, fig. 5), which externally ap- 

 proaches Goniodoris and other Dorididce eleutherobrancMatoi in the char- 

 acter of the radula, is liithcilo only known from the nortlieas'eru part of 

 the Atlantic (Lofoten), and by a single species (D. ecldnulatus, S. 'I. 



' In the AnculoB and DrepanicE the penis is armed as in so mauj Dorididce 

 with a series of small hooks. 




1880.] NATLllAL SCIENCES OF IMIILAOELl'lIIA. 53 



without armature. The tongue wilh transverse thickenings of the 

 rliachis ; the lateral plates somewhat depressed ; the two first different 

 liom the rest, larger and with a denticle at the root of the hook ; the rest 

 without any such, the external quite without a hook. A sucking-crop 

 on the upper side of the hulbus pharyngeus, but sessile, dej^ressed con- 

 ical, and not consisting of two symmetrical halves. The large 

 stomach Iree on the surface of the liver. The glans of the long 

 penis with a strong and quite peculiar armature, consisting of strong 

 liooks, partly simple, partly bifurcate and partly digitate, with strong 

 digitations. The vagina with a peculiar armature of high palisades. 



This interesting genus externally most resembles the LameUidorides, 

 both in reference to the nature of the back, to the form and size 

 of the gill and in the want of armature of tlie lip-disk ; the region of 

 the openings of the rhinophor-holes differ in the want of a glabella 

 and by the presence of a larger number of surrounding papilla^. The 

 genital opening somewhat recalls the Acanthodorides, as do also the 

 (tripinnate) branchial leaves and the sucking-crop, but tliis is not 

 divided in two distinct halves as in this last genus. The armature 

 of the tongue is very different from that of the LameUidorides, 

 Adalarix and Acnnthodorides ; the large hook-formed lateral plates 

 of these genera are wanting, and in their places are two large de- 

 pressed lateral plates, with small liooks ; the external plates somewhat 

 recalling those of the Adalaripc ; the rhachis rather broad, with 

 transverse thickenings of the cuticula, corresponding to the rows of 

 plates. In the very peculiar form of armature of the glans penis, and 

 by the peculiar clothing of the vagina, the A/ciodoride.'^ differ from all 

 the above-cited genera. 



Only a single species of the genus is hitherto known, the new one, 

 that will be described below. 



1. Ak. lalescem, Bgh., n. sp. Oceanum Pacificum. 



1. Ak. latescens, Bgh., n. sp. PI. IV. fi-. 3; pi. V, fig. 11-U: pi. VI, fig. 1-20; 

 pi. VII, fig. 1-8: pi. VIII, fig. 1-2. 



Color lutescens. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. (Xazan Bay). 



Of this form I have had a large single specimen for examination, 

 obtained in August, 1870, by Dall, on stony bottom, at low water, in 

 Nazan l>ay, Atka Island, Aleutians. 



According to Dal), the color of the living animal was "yellowish- 

 white;" preserved in spirits, it was of a uniform dirty yellowish color. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



The length was 32.0 mm., by a breadth of 19.0 mm., and a height of 

 13.0 mm.; the breadth of the foot 12.5 mm., of the mantle-brim 3.0 

 mm. ; the height of the rhinophoria .S.O mm., of the branchial leaves 

 2.5 mm. ; the length of the genital opening 2.25 mm. 



The form was elongate-oval, somewhat larger than that of the Lam. 

 bilameliata. The papillae of the back relatively smaller and more 

 rounded than in that animal. The openings of the rliinophor-holes 

 an oblique oval slit ; the margins plain ; several (six to eight) larger 

 papill* (of about 1.0 mm. in height) in the immediate vicinity of the 

 holes ; the club of the rhinophoria with about thirty leaves. The 

 branchia with about ten leaves. The anal papilla low, with a stellate 

 aperture ; the renal orifice as usual ; the interbranchial space crowded 

 with rather pointed and high papillae. The head and tentacles as in 

 allied forms. The genital papilla of oval form, with a large, longitu- 

 dinal, crescentic slit. The rather broad foot with the usual anterior 

 marginal furrow. The peritoneum colorless, without spicula. 



The central nervous system more flattened than in allied forms ; 

 the cerebro- visceral ganglia reniform, a little broader in the anterior 

 part ; the pedal ganglia less flattened than the former, larger than the 

 visceral ones, of oval form, on the outside of the cerebro-visceral. The 

 proximal olfactory ganglia a little smaller than the buccal ones, bulbi- 

 form ; distal ganglia could not be found. The commissure not broad, 

 not short. The buccal ganglia of oval form, closely connected ; the 

 gastro-oisophageal roundish, rather long-stalked, in size about one- 

 sixth of the former, with one large cell and several (three or four) 

 smaller ones. 



The nervi optici rather long ; the eyes with yellowish lens and 

 black pigment. The otocysts in the usual place, filled with otokonia 

 of the usual kind. The leaves of the club of the rhinophoria very 

 richly furnished with thick (diameter, 0.04 mm.) and long spicula, 

 more or less calcareous, and very often giving off a thick twig of 

 greater or less length (PI. V, fig. 12) ; for the most part set perpen- 

 dicularly or obliquely on the free margin of the leaves. The axes of 

 the organs and the short stalk stuffed with strong and very much cal- 

 cified spicules. In the skin of the back a mass of spicula of the same 

 kind (PI. IV, fig. 13) as above, or still more hardened ; the papilla; of 

 the back solidified in the usual way (PI. V, fig. 11). In the interstitial 

 tissue fewer and smaller spicules. 



The oral tube rather short, wide. The bulbus pharyngeus of usual 

 form, about 5.5 mm. long by a height of 4.5 mm., (and at the upper 




1S80.J NATURAL SOIE.VOKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



part of the sucking-crop of 5.5 mm.), and a breadth of 4.75 mm. ; 

 the sheatli of the rjidula projecting about 1.1) mm. backwards and 

 downwards. The lip-disk large, clothed with a thick yellow cuticula ; 

 the true mouth forming a narrow vertical slit. The cap-shaped suck- 

 ing-crop almost exactly as in Ac. pilo^a^ but more conical and with- 

 out external signs of duplication : on the inside clothed with a yellow- 

 ish cuticula, opening into the buccal cavity through a wide slit. The 

 tongue rather broad ; on the fine reddish-yellow colored radula seven- 

 teen rows of teeth, also on the point of the tongue were traces of six 

 entirely vanished rows ; the two first rows very incomplete, reduced to 

 some external plates. Further backwards were seen forty-two devel- 

 oped and three younger rows, or, all in all, the animal presented sixty- 

 two rows of teeth. The most external plate of each row is quite 

 colorless, the next two or three pale yellowish, the following all of 

 horny-yellow color ; the rhachis colorless. The length of the most 

 external plate about 0.035 mm., of the next about 0.05 mm., of the 

 following 0.07 mm. ; the length of the second large plate about 0.2 

 mm., of the first 0.022 mm. ; the breadth of the rhachis about 0.22 

 mm. The rhachis thickened between the rows and forming arched 

 elevations between them (PI. VI, fig. la, o ; PI. VIII, fig. \a). The 

 first two plates rather large (PI. VI, fig. \hh, cc, 4-6 ; PI. VIII, fig. 

 1 6, c) ; with a short strong hook and a stout denticle at each side of 

 it, the outer denticle broader; the hook of the second plate somewhat 

 larger than that of the first ; sometimes a slight crenulation on the 

 outer margin of the first plate (fig. 5). All the following ten or eleven 

 plates (PI. VI, fig. '2e, /; PI. VIII, fig. 2fl, 6) of the same type, by 

 degrees decreasing in size, consisting of a quadrilateral basal part, 

 from which (PI. VI, fig. T-13), in most of them, rises a strong, short, 

 broad hook ; the two or three outmost plates (PI. VI, fig. 2/'; PI. VIII, 

 tig. 2) formed of the basal part alone ; the rest with the hook gradu- 

 ally more developed 



The salivary glands yellowish-white, flattened, ribbon-shaped, of 

 about 10.5 mm. in length, reaching to the cardia, where they 

 are agglutinated one to another ; the breadth in the foremost part 

 • about 0.75 ram , in the middle 1.5 mm., the posterior part again some- 

 what narrower; the duct of the gland rather short 



The oesophagus rather wide, about lo.O mm. long, the inside with 

 rather strong longitudinal folds ; it opens into the stomach, which lies 

 free in a cleft on the upper side of the liver. This organ (PI. VI, fig. 

 17a) is of oval form, of about 0.5 mm. largest diameter; the inside 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1880. 



with ratlier strong longitiulinal folils ; tlxi jiyloriis (fig. 17) in the 

 neigliborhooJ of the cardia. The intestine advancing from tlie stom- 

 ach to the fore-end (Hg. 17^) of the liver, in tliis part about 10.0 mm. 

 long; ftirming a knee and retrograding to the anal nipple in a length 

 of 2;>.0 mm. The contents of the stomach were indeterminable animal 

 matter, mixed with some diatomace;v. 



Tlie liver iO.O mm. long by a height of 10.0 mm. and a breadth of 

 about 1:2.0 mm. ; tlie posterior end rounded ; a little more than the an- 

 terior hitlf of the under side obliquely flattened (by the anterior genital 

 mass) showing the cardiac end of the (esophagus and the root of the 

 hermaphroditic duct. On the anterior part of the upper surface is a 

 cleft for the stomach and for the biliary sac ; the color of the surface 

 and of the substance of the liver is grayish-yellow. The biliary sac 

 (fig. 17c) lying before the stomach, on the right side of the intestine, 

 large as the stomach), somewhat flattened, grayish, of rounded out- 

 line and about 4.5 mm. largest diameter; the contents, as in the 

 stomach. 



Tlie heart as usual. The sanguineous gland whitish, entirely cover- 

 ing the nervous system, about (J.O mm. long, by a breadth of 4. .3 and a 

 height of only 1.0 mm. 



The hermaphroditic gland yolk-yellow, covering the upper side of 

 the liver with a thick layer ; in its lobes large oJgene cells and masses 

 of zo"sperms. The anterior genital mass large, about 14.0 mm. long 

 by a breadth of 9.0 and a height of 11.0 mm., flattened and a little ex- 

 cavated on the left side, with an excavation on the fore side, the right 

 side very convex. The hermaphroditic duct whitish, rather thin 

 (diameter about 0.75-1.0 mm.), passing straight over the left side of 

 the genital mass to its anterior end, without formation of any (distinct) 

 ampulla. The first part of the spermatoduct whitish, forming several 

 lon'T windings on the upper part of the forepart of the mass and pass- 

 ing into the yellowish (PI. VI, fig. 18a) continuation; this, with its 

 numerous coils, forms a large flattened layer on the fore-end of the 

 rif^Vit side of the mass ; it then rather suddenly passes into a much 

 thinner whitish continuation (fi?. ISb) about 6 mm. long, that slopes 

 (fig. 18e) into the penis, which (retracted) was lying on the lowest 

 anterior part of the right side of the mass. The penis was cylindrical, 

 of the length of 11.0 mm. by a diameter of 1.5 mm. ; the truncated, 

 cylindrical, yellowish (under a magnifier nodulous) glans forming 

 (PI. V, fig. 13, 14) a prominence of the length of nearly 1.0 mm. in 

 the vestibulum. This glans was partly covered on the outer side 




1880.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF I'lH LADELPHI A. 57 



I fig. 13, 14), but especially on the margin of the wide, gaping orifice 

 and on its inside for a length of about 4.0 mm. (PI. VII, fig^. 2-4), 

 with rather crowded and appareritly irregularly set claws. 1 he claws 

 were very strong and for the most part broad and high (tig. 3, 4), 

 even reaching a height of about O.'.i mm. (fig. 4). In the interior of 

 the glans, especially in its posterior part (fig. 5c), the claws were less 

 broad and simply uncinate or bifurcated, otherwise mostly broader and 

 with digitations of the margin. The body of the claws was plain or 

 curved; the end simply pointed, bi- or trifurcate or with digitations, 

 sometimes very strangely formed. They consisted of a cuticula and 

 its matrix ; very often, especially on the outside of the glans, the 

 euticula was torn off and the (fig. 20) rounded or pointed naked matrix 

 was left. The whitish spherical spermatotheca [PI. VI, fig. 19a j was 

 about .3.5 mm. in diameter, laterally communicating through a short 

 petiolus adhering to tne upper end of the vagina, with a sinuosity into 

 which opens the elongate, yellowish spermatocysta ( fig. 1 db), whicii had 

 a length of about 2.0 mm., and from which issues the long duct of the 

 mucous gland (fig. 19c). The grayish vagina very strong (fig. 18e), 

 about 7.0 mm. long, elongate-conical ; the lowest part wide, having a 

 diameter of about 3.25 mm, ; the walls thick, with a very peculiar 

 internal lining, consisting of cylindrical palisades (PI. VII, fig. 6-8) 

 of a height of about 0.4 by a greatest diameter of 0.07-0.08 mm. ; 

 between the larger were seen smaller and very small ones. The pali- 

 sades seemed to be densely clothed (fig. 8) with cilia, and showed a 

 nearly colorless axis (fig. 6, 8) up to their points ; the axes were often 

 denuded {Jig. 6) after the sheath has been torn away. This lining 

 continued up to the superior end of the vagina, but not beyond it. 



The mucous gland large, whitish, and yellowish-white ; the anterior 

 half yolk-yellow, denuded on the fore-end of the genital mass ; the duct 

 short. 



A variety (PI. VI, fig. 14-20) of this species has also been found 

 by Dall, in July, 1873, at low water, in Kyska Harbor (Aleutians\ 

 According to Dall the color of the living animal was " yellowish." T he 

 animal preserved in spirits was of a uniform light yellowish color. The 

 length about 18.0 mm. by a breadth reaching 8.0 mm and a height of 

 6.0 mm. ; the breadth of the foot at the fore-end 5.0 mm., the margin 

 of the mantle freely projecting 1.5 mm, ; the height of the rhinophoria 

 1.5 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.5 mm. Around the plain margins 

 of the rhinophor-holes seven to nine large conical tubercles ; the club 

 of the rhinophoria with about twenty leaves Around the branchial 

 5 




58 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ring, as well as in the centre of it around the vent, rather large conical 

 tubercles 1.5 mm. in height; the branchial leaves, fifteen in number, 

 as far as could be determined. 



The oral tube strong, 4.5 mm. long, wide. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 about 5.5 mm, long, by a height of 3.0, and a breadth of 3.T5 mm. ; 

 the rasp-sheath about 1.75 mm., freely projecting, bent upwards. The 

 cuticula of the lip-disk yellowish. The tongue with about thirty-five 

 rows of plates (fig. 14-16) ; further backwards, twenty-five developed 

 and four younger rows ; the total number of rows sixty-four. On the 

 posterior part of the tongue fourteen plates, the number increasing 

 backwards to fifteen or sixteen. The five anterior rows very incom- 

 plete, only represented by 1, 7, 9, 10, 12 plates (on each side). The 

 plates as above. The breadth of the rhachis reaching to about 0.1 1 mm. 

 The glanduloe salivales 6.0 mm. long. The stomach (fig. 17a) about 

 4.0 mm. long. The contents of the digestive cavity a mass of sponge. 

 The vesica fellea (fig. 17c) about 2.5 mm. high, with strong folds on 

 the inside. The anterior genital mass quite as above, also the sper- 

 matotheca and the spermatocysta (fig. 19), the penis (fig. 18, 20), and 

 the vagina (fig. 18, 19). 



LAMELLIDOEIS, Alder et Hancock. 



Lamellidons, A. et H., Monogr. Brit. Nudibr. Moll., Part VII, 1855, p. xvii. 

 Lamellidoris, A. et H., R. Bergh, Malacolog. Untersuch. (Semper, Philipp. 



II, ii), Heft xiv, 1878, p. 603-615. 

 Lamellidoris, A. et H., R. Bergh, Gatt. nord. Doriden, 1. c, 1879, p. 



362-365. 



Corpus vix depressum, nothaeo granulato. Branchia (non retracti- 

 Hs) e foliis (multis) simplicita pinnatis, ut plurimum in formam ferri 

 equini dispositis, formata. Caput latum, semilunare, angulis tentacu- 

 laribus. Aperturaj rhinophoriales, margine integro ; tuberculis anticis 

 2-3, calvitie postica. 



Cuticula aperture oralis infra asserculis duobus incrassata, et ante 

 annulus papillarum angustus. Lingua rhachide lamellis humilibus in- 

 structa ; pleuris dente interno hamiformi permagno et externo com- 

 presso lamelliformi unco minuto pra;dito armatis. Ingluvies buccalis 

 (suctoria) petiolo bulbo pharyngeo connata, tympaniformis. 



Penis apice (glande) curvatus, non armatus. Vagina brevis. 



The genus Lamellidoris was established (1855) by Alder and Han- 

 cock, to receive two small groups of Dorididee, one with the D. hilam- 

 ellata as type, to which especially the name of the group is hero 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'III A. 59 



restricted ; and the other, characterized by a more depressed form and 

 the naked rhachis of the tongue, with the D. deprp.ssa, A. et H., as 

 type. Hancock lias given some anatomical remarks on the typical 

 form {D. bilamellata, L.) ; but nothing else had been since made 

 known about these animals' until my just cited notice and those of G. 

 O. Sars.2 



The Lamellidorides approach the Acanthodorides, but differ even 

 here, externally, by the coarsely granulated surface of the back and 

 by the larger number of the branchial leaves, which are set in the 

 form of a horseshoe ; the openings of the rhinophor-holes, the tenta- 

 cles as well as the genital opening are also of a different shape. 

 More notable still are the anatomical differences ; the Lamellidorides 

 want the armature of the lip-disk, which is found in the other group ; 

 the armature of the tongue is quite different (1, I — 1 — I, 1 ), and the 

 buccal crop is connected with the bulbus pharyngeus by a stalk. The 

 penis is quite different from that of the Acanthodorides, and without 

 true armature ; the vagina is short. After all the Lamellidorides are 

 much more allied to the Adalarice. 



The form of the body, as in the Acanthodorides, not very depressed. 

 The back covered all over with semi-globular and short club-formed 

 papillic. The openings of the rhinophor-holes with plain margins and 



' Accordinj? to 11. & A. Adams (the Gen. of Recent Moll., II, 18o8, p. 

 657), Lamellidoris is a synonym of " Onchidoris, Blv.," which name is 

 employed by Adams for a group, whose type should be D. pusilla, A. et 

 H. (that scarcely belongs to the true La>iielUdorides). Cf. also Gray. 

 Guide I, 1857, p. 207. 



The genus Onchidoris of Blainville (Man. de Malac, 1825, p. 480, 

 PI. XLVI, f. 8.), ought to be rejected entirely, as founded very likely only 

 on bad observation ; the genus figures with nearly imi^ossible characters, 

 both in relation to the tentacles ("quatre tentacules comme dans les Dorif, 

 outre deux appendices labiaux") and to the anus ("median a la partie 

 infcrieure et postiu-ieure du rebord du manteau"). The type of the genus 

 Blainville found in the British Mus. (London), where it seemed to have 

 disappeared, at least it was not to be found in the collection of nudi- 

 branchiatcs which I looked over in ^lay, 1873 (while, on the contrary, I 

 found the long-lost type of the genus Linguclla, Blv., in his original glass, 

 and so have re-established the denomination LingueUa for the much later 

 (18G1) Sancara, Bgh. Cf. my Malacolog. Unters., Heft vi, 1874, p. 248). 

 Later, Mr. Abraham (1. c. p. 225) seems to have found the original speci- 

 men again. 



^ G. O. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 30G. Tab. XIII, figs. 5, 6; 

 Tab. XIV, fig. 3, :i 




<)0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



commonly two larger papilla? before and a bare space behind them. 

 The gill (not retractile) consisting chiefly of several (usually 20-30) 

 tripinnate leaves, set in the form of a horseshoe. The head large, 

 veil-formed (semilunar), with produced and pointed side-parts, which 

 are adherent to the foot nearly to the point. The genital openings 

 not being a slit, but on a large tubercle. 



The cuticula of the oral aperture is thickened below, near the median 

 line, into a ledge ; and on the outside is a ring of hard papillje. 

 The buccal crop, connected through a petiolus with the foremost part 

 of the upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus, is drum-shaped ; on the in- 

 side clothed with a strong cuticula. The tongue has on the rhachis 

 short compressed lamelkc, on each side of these is a very large up- 

 right plate with large compressed body and a hook which on the inside 

 is either plain or denticulated ; at the outside of this plate is another, 

 compressed but much smaller and with a little rudimentary hook. The 

 salivary glands forming a short, coiled mass at each side of the root 

 of the oesophagus. The oesophagus without diverticle at its origin. 

 The spermatoduct (as in the Acanthodorides) very long ; the penis 

 short, its glans curved and clothed with a rather thick cuticula, but 

 otherwise not armed. The spermatocysta imbedded in the mucous 

 gland ; ^ the vagina short. 



About the biological relations of the animals belonging to this 

 group very little is hitherto known. Where the species occur, they 

 seem to be rather abundant in individuals (cf. about the Lam. 

 hilamellata, Collingwood, in Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 3 S. Ill, 1859, p. 

 463). The spawn of several species {L. hilamellata, L, diaphana, L, 

 mconspicua, L. aspera, L. depressa, L. pusilla) has been described 

 by Alder and Hancock, and that of a single species {L. muricata) by 

 Sars, Meyer and Moebius, etc. The first stages of the development 

 of this last form have been followed by Sars/^ 



. The group seems limited to the northern part of the Atlantic and 

 of the Pacific. To the same belong with certainty some properly ex- 

 amined species, and, besides, several others mentioned in the litera- 

 ture can, with more or less probability, be referred to it. 



' The spermatocysta has not been seen by Alder and Hancock. Cf. 1. c. 

 1852. PI. XIV, fig. 8 (p. 219). 



« Archir. fiir Naturges, 1840 p. 210, Tab. 7. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. CI 



A. 



1. L. bilamellata (L.). Oc. Atlant. 



2. L. varinns, Bgh., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 



3. L. Jiyntn'cina, Bf(h., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 



4. L. muricata (O. Fr. Miiller). Oc. Pacif. 

 5- L. diaphana (Aid. et Hanc). Oc. Atlant. 



B. diaphana, A. et H., Mouogr. Part ii, fam. 1, PI. 10 ; Part vii, PI. 

 46 supj)l. fig. 9. 



6. L. aspera (A. et H.).^ Oc. Atlant. 



D. atpera, A. et H., 1. c, Part v, fam. 1, PI. 2, fig. 15 ; Part vi, fam. 

 1, PI. 9, fig. 1-9; Part vii, PI, 46, suppl. text ; PI. 48, suppl. fig. 2. 



B. 



7. L. »par»a (A. et H.). Oc. Atlant. 



D. sparsa, A. et II., 1. c, Part iv, fam. 1, PI. 14 ; Part vii, PI. 46, 

 suppl. text. 



8. L. depressa (A. ct H.). Oe. Atlnnt. 



D. depressa. A. et H., 1. c, Part v, fam. 1, PI. 12, fig. 1-8; Part vii. 



PI. 46, suppl. fig 12. 

 ? Villiersia scutigera, d'Orb., Mag. de Zool., 1837, p. 15, PI. 109, fig. 



1-4. 



9. L. ineonspicua (A. et H.). Oc. Atlant. 



U. ineonspicua, A. et H., 1. c. Part v, fam. 1, PI. 12, fig. 9-16 ; Part 

 vii, PL 46, suppl. fig. 13. 



10. L. oblonga (A. et H.). Oc. Atlant. 



Z>. oblonga, A. et H., 1. c. Part v, fam. 1, PI. 16, fig. 4-5; Part vii, 

 PI. 46, suppl. fig. 10. 



11. L. pusilla (A. et H. ^. Oc. Atlant. 



D. pusilla, A. et H., 1. c. Part ii, fam. 1, PI. 13; Part vii, PI. 40, 

 suppl. text ; app. p. iii. 



12. L. luteocincta (M. Sars).* Oc. Atlant. 



13. L. I?) ulidiana (Thomps.). Oc. Atlant. 



I), ulidiana, Th., Ann. ^lag., Nat. Hist., xv, 18, p. 31. 



D. ulidiana, Th., .\ld. et Hanc, 1. c, Part vii, p. 42, app. p. ii. 



14. L. (?) tenella f AgassizK Oc. Atlant. 



D. tenella, Ag., Gould, Rep. on the Inv. of Massachusetts, ed. Biuney, 

 1870, p. 229, PI. XX, fig. 289, 290, 293, 



15. L. (?) pallida (Ag. ). Oc. Atlant. 



D. pallida, Ag., Gould, 1. c, p. 229, PI. xx, fig. 284, 287, 288, 291. 



' According to Mcirch (Synopsis Moll. mar. Daniae, Vidensk. Meddel. fra 

 naturh. Foren. i Kbhvn., 1871, p. 179) this si>ecies ouglit to be identical 

 vrith the D. muricata of Meyer and Moebius ; but this is, of course, im- 

 possible. 



'^ The organs of the bulbus pharyngeus of this species have just been 

 figured by G. O. Sars (Moll, reg, arct. Norv., 1878, Tab. xiv, fig. 3). 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



16. L. (?) diademata {kg.\. Oc. Atlant. 



D. diademata, Ag., Gould, 1. c, p. 230, PI. xxi, fig. 298, 300, 301-304. 



17. L. [_?) griseu ^Slinips. ). Oc. Atlaut. Gould, 1. c, p. 232, PI. xx, lig. 



292, 295. 



18. L. (?) derelicta (Fischer). Oc. Atlant. 



D. derelicta, F., Jouin. de conchyl., xv, 1867, p. 7. 



19. L. {?) tuberculata (Hiitton^. Oc. Pacif. (Nova Zeland.). 



Onchidoi-is tuberculatus, llutton, cf. Abraham, 1. c, p. 226. 



20. i. I.?) ewia^j'a (Fischer). Oc. Atlant. 



Doris eubalia, F., Journ. de conchyl., xx, 1872, p. 10. 



1. L. bilamellata (L.), vat. pacifica. Plate V, fig. 10 ; Plate XI, fig. 3-9. 



Color albido-flavescens, maculis fuscis plus minusve variegatus. 



Dentes laterales margine hevi. 



Hab. Oc. Pacific, sepentr. (Mar. Bering!). 



Six specimens of this variety of the Atlantic species were taken by 

 Dall, in Bering Sea (Hagmeister Id.), in August, 18V4, at low water, 

 on a gravel beach. Three were sacrificed for the anatomical examin- 

 ation. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal was " yellowish- 

 white with brown maculie." 



The length of the specimens preserved in spirits was 11-13.0 mm. 

 by a height of 4.5-5.5 mm. and a breadth of 6-10.0 mm. ; the height 

 of the rhinophoria 1.75-2.2, of the branchial leaves 1-1.2 mm. ; the 

 breadth of the foot at the fore-end about 5-8.0 mm. ; the margin of 

 the mantle projecting freely about 1.5-2.0 mm. The color of the 

 individuals on the back was yellow-white, marmorated with light 

 reddish-brown, this marbling always occupying the spaces between the 

 tubercles, which are nearly white (or light yellowish) ; the branchial 

 leaves of the same reddish color ; the club of the rhinophoria yellowish- 

 white ; the under side of the body yellowish-white or whitish. 



The form was elongate-oval. The head flattened, nearly semicircu- 

 lar, with the tentacular edges a little prominent. The vicinity of the 

 posterior margin of the rhinophor-holes plain, at the anterior two 

 large erect tubercles ; the club of the rhinophoria with about twenty 

 leaves, the stem rather short. The back covered all over with semi- 

 globular and short club-shaped rounded tubercles of different sizes, 

 mostly small, mixed with many larger ones 0.'I5 mm. in diameter ; the 

 larger tubercles mostly showing a spinous surface (PL V, fig. 10)' when 

 magnified. 



1 Cf. my "Malacolog. Unters." (Semper, U, ii) Tab. LXVIII, fig. 15-16. 




1880.] NATCBAIi SCIENCES OF I'lllLADELl'IH A. 63 



The openings of tlie rhinophor-holes and of the branchial area (fig. 

 l-ibh) surrounded by large and Kniall tubercles wiiicli also were spread 

 over the central part of it (fig. 3). The branchial leaves ^fig. 3aa) were 

 about twenty-four or twenty-five in number, set in a transverse reni- 

 forni ring ; the leaves in the front part much larger than the rest. 

 The anus as usual, scarcely projecting. The under side of the margin 

 of the mantle quite smooth. The genital openings always quite con- 

 tracted. The foot large, with a fine line along its anterior margin. 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia short-reniform ; the pedal ones not 

 much smaller, of oval form, set nearly at a right angle to the inferior 

 face of the former ; the olfactory ganglia bulbiform or ovoid. The 

 buccal ganglia rather flattened, of roundish contour, a little larger than 

 the olfactory ones ; the commissure between them very short ; the 

 gastro-oesophageal ganglia not very short-stalked, roundish, in size 

 about one-quarter of the buccal ganglia, with three large cells. The 

 three commissures very distinct, the sub-cerebral and the pedal con- 

 nected throughout most of their length ; the visceral thin, not giving 

 off a genital nerve. 



The eyes with black pigment, yellowish lens ; the nervus opticus 

 nearly as long as half the breadth of the cerebral ganglion. Tht 

 otocysts as large as the eyes, crowded with otokonia of the usual kind. 

 The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicules ; the axis of these organs, 

 on the other hand, were filled with such spicules, partly circularly and 

 concentrically arranged. The tubercles of the back stuffed with ordi- 

 nary spicules (fig. 10) in the usual way, the larger spicules mostly very 

 prominent on the surface 



The oral tube as usual. The bulbus pharyngeus of the usual form, 

 about 2.0 mm. long ; the lip-disk with a rather thick yellowish cuticula, 

 and inwards witli the same belt of (about ten to fifteen) rows of s.nall 

 denticles as in the L. hystricina (cf. below ) ; the sheath of the radula 

 somewhat bent upwards, freely projecting behind the bulbus for as 

 great a length as that of the bulbus itself. The tongue (in the three 

 individuals) with ten or eleven series of plates, in the sheath ten or 

 eleven developed and three younger rows ; the total number of rows being 

 thus twenty four or twenty-five. The plates light yellowish in their 

 thicker parts, otherwise nearly colorless. The length of the median 

 plates reaching about 0.12 mm., the hfight of tiie external ones 

 0.10 mm. The median (fig. \a) and exterior plates (fig. ~b) quite as 

 usual ; the large ones of the usual forms (fig. 76), sometimes, especially 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAHEMY OF [1880. 



the foremost, with rather obtuse point (fig. 9). The buccal crop (fig. 

 4, 5) as large as the bulbus, of quite the usual form, rather petiohite.' 



The salivary glands forming (on each side) a large, thick, whitish 

 mass between the bulbus and the central nervous system (with the 

 glandula* sanguinese). 



The o?sophagus rather wide. The stomach and the intestine as 

 usual. The liver as usual, much flattened on the right anterior half 



The heart rather large. Tiie gland, sanguineaj large, whitish, cover- 

 ing the upper side of the central nervous system, the foremost part in one 

 individual very narrow. The renal syrinx about 1.0 mm. long, with 

 strong longitudinal folds, its clothing as usual. 



The anterior genital mass 4-4.5 mm. long by a breadth of 1.25-1.5 

 and a height of 3-3.3 mm., yellow-white, plano-convex ; the anterior, 

 and partly the superior portion formed by the coils of the whitish sper- 

 matoduct ; in one individual one coil embraced the sheath of the radula. 

 The first part of the spermatoduct strong, when unrolled about 25.0 mm. 

 long ; the succeeding part of the length of 4-5.0 mm., thinner ; the 

 rest about 7.0 mm. in length, stronger, nearly as in the first part. In 

 the beginning of this last part the true spermatic duct was rolled up in 

 tight coils, the remaining part of its length was nearly straight. The 

 penis about 1.5 mm. long, with the usual glans in the interior. The 

 spermatotheca (fig. 6a) spherical, its chief duct nearly twice as long as 

 the bag, the vagina short (fig. 6e). The spermatocysta appeared 

 pyriform (fig. i')d) 



In color this form seems to differ from the typical one, as that is 

 represented by Alder and Hancock (Monogr., Part vi, 1854, fam. 3, 

 J-"!. 9 ) ; in the anatomical relations no specific differences could be 

 detected. 



A specimen of another variety was obtained by Dall, on a gravel 

 beach, at low water, in June, 1874, at Port Etches (Prince William 

 Sound . According to Dall, the mantle was of "brown " color. 



The specimen had a length of 13.0 mm., by a breadth of 8.0 mm., 

 and a height of 5.0 mm. ; the height of the leaves of the gill was 

 about 1.0 mm. The color of the back was brownish and yellowish; 

 that of the gill, as well as of the rhinophoria, yellowish. The number 

 of leaves of the gill was about thirty. 



The bulbus pharyngeus about 1.75 mm. long, by a height of 1.5 mm. ; 

 the sheath of the radula nearly as long as the bulbus ; the buccal crop 



1 In one specimen the form of this organ was entirely as figured in my 

 Malacolog. Untersuch. (Semper, Reisen). Tab. LXV, fig. 3. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lULADELIMlIA. Cft 



a little larger than the bulbus. The radula brownish-yellow, with 

 nine rows of teeth, further back fifteen developed and two younger 

 rows, the total number being twenty-six. The teeth quite as above, 

 dark, horn-colored in their thicker parts ; the median ones reaching a 

 height of 0.16 mm. The salivary glands as above-mentioned. 



I'he biliary sac uncommonly small. The black contents of the 

 rectum consisting of undeterminable animal matter, mixed with larger 

 and smaller pieces of small Crustacea. The liver much flattened on 

 the right anterior half. 



The anterior genital mass large, about 7.0 mm. long, 5.0 mm. high, 

 and 3.0 mm. thick. The ampulla of the hermaiihroditic duct whitish, 

 forming a long ansa, about o.O mm. long. The spermatoduct shorter 

 than in the other form, otherwise, with the penis, as in that form. 

 The spermatotheca yellowish, short, sac-shaped, of a largrst diameter 

 of 8.0 mm. ; the spermatocysts about 0.3 mm. long, pyriform. The 

 mucous gland chalk-white and brownish-gray. 



Of another variety, Dall, in August, 1872, obtained six specimens, 

 in Sanborn Harbor (Shumagin Ids.), on stony bottom, at low water. 



According to Dall, the color of the back of the living animal is 

 "red-brown, with whitish papilhi?." The color of the backs of 

 the specimens preserved in spirits was rather uniformly, dirty brown- 

 yellowish, commonly much lighter on the middle, the papilhx; whitish ; 

 the gill and the rhinophoria of the color of the back ; the under side 

 of the whole body yellowish ; more whitish on the mantle. The 

 length of the animals varied from 18.0 to 25.0 mm., by a breadth of 

 11.0 to 16.0 mm., and a height of 8.0 to 12 mm.; the breadth of 

 the foot T.5 to 12.0 mm. ; the height of the rhinophoria reaching 3.0 

 mm., that of the gill 2.0 mm. The form as usual. The horseshoe 

 shape of the gill very pronounced, the number of leaves, twenty-eight 

 to thirty. The gill was surrounded by higher papilla;, which, in the 

 largest specimen, reached the height of about 2.5 mm. ; the space 

 inclosed by the gill closely set with similar papillie, the largest (as 

 large as the above mentioned) in the periphery. The gill can be so 

 deeply drawn back in its groove, that these external and infernal 

 papilhu shut over and quite conceal it ; the papillaj of the centre 

 smaller; a crest or some few papill;t> in the median line go from the 

 anus backwards, between the incurved ends of the gill. The anus 

 small, very slightly prominent ; the renal pore on the right side. The 

 openings of the rhinophor-holes as usual, before them tlu; two usual 

 papilla', behind them a bare space. Tiie papilhv of the back quite as 




(it) PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



in llit> previously examined form, the largest (in tlie largest specimen) 

 reaching the height and the diameter of about 1.5 mm., those in the 

 neighborhood of the gill somewhat larger. 



Two smaller individuals were dissected, the larger being harder than 

 these and not so suitable for that purpose. The peritoneum was 

 colorless. 



The central nervous sj^stem just as in the former specimens, but the 

 buccal ganglia smaller than the olfactory, and the gastro-cesophageal 

 short-stalked. 



Tlie eyes as above. The otocysts, under the glass, very distinct as 

 chalk-white points on the hinder and outermost part of the cerebral 

 ganglia. The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula. The skin 

 and the papilhx; of the back as above or still more crowded with very 

 hard spicula. 



The oral tube large, (in both individuals) about 2.5 mm. long. The 

 bnlbus pharyngeus of the usual form, (in both individuals) about 3.0 

 long, by a breadth of 1.8 mm , and the height nearly the same; the 

 sheath of the radula projecting straight backwards 2.0 mm. The 

 buccal crop, lying to the left side of tlie bulbus, somewhat compressed, 

 of about 3.0 mm. largest diameter, the stalk nearly half as long as 

 the large-t diameter of the crop. The tongue with ten rows of teeth, 

 further backwards also eleven or twelve developed and three younger 

 rows, the total number thus being twenty-four or twenty-five. They 

 were entirely as in the form first examined. 



The salivary glands, the pyloric part of the intestine, with its biliary 

 sac, and the liver as usual. The sanguineous gland whitish, much 

 flattened, covering the whole upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus and 

 the central nervous system ; a flattened cavity in its interior. The 

 hermaphroditic gland, through its more reddish color, contrasting with 

 the grayish color of the liver. 



The anterior genital mass 11.0 to 12.0 mm. long, by a height reach- 

 ing t.O to 8.0 mm., and a breadlh of 4.0 to 4.5 mm. The ampulla of 

 the hermajdiroditic duct lying transversely on the lowest and most 

 anterior part of the back of the mucous gland, rather straight or 

 forming nearly a circle, about 5.0 to 1.0 mm. long, whitish. The 

 spermatoduct making many coils on and before the anterior part of 

 the mucous gland ; the first part about 35.0 to 45.0 mm. long, the 

 second nearly 25.0 mm. long; the penis about 1.5 to 2.0 mm., pro- 

 jecting freely from the vestibulum, conical ; the glans seemed rather 

 short. The spermatotheca of about 3.0 mm. diameter, whitish. The 




1880.J NATURAL aClENCEa OF I'lIILADELlMilA. 67 . 



epermatocysta (fig. Cb) quite imbedded in and concealed by the mucous 

 gland, only a part of its chief duct free on the surface of this last ; 

 the spermatocysta scarcely shorter than the sperinatotheca, pear-shaped, 

 incurved ; the duct to the mucous gland (fig. Gd) passing from the end 

 of the bag, the other strong, longer (fig. (U.-^, opening in the duct of 

 the spermatotheca, where it begins to be wider (vagina); the vagina 

 (fig. Ge) rather wide, but short. The mucous gland whitish, yellowit-h 

 and dirty yellow.' 



2. L. varians, Bgh. PI. XI, 6g. 1.3, 14: Pi. XIII, fig. 1. 



L. varians, B. R. Bergh, Malacol. Unters. 1. c, 1878, p. 013, G14. 



Color ca?rulescens vel albescens vel flavescens. 



Dentes laterales margine interne denticulati fere usque ad apicem. 



Bab. Oc. Pacif. (Ins. Kyska). 



Of this species six specimens were taken by Dall, in July, 1873, at 

 Kyska Island, on sandy ground, at a depth of fl-14 fathoms. Four 

 specimens were sacrificed to the anatomical examination. 



According to Dall the color of the living animal is " bluish." The 

 animals preserved in spirits were of a uniform whitish color, so too 

 the rhinophoria and the branchia. Their length was 9-12.0 mtn. by 

 a breadth of 5.3-7.0 and a height of 3-4.5 mm.; the breadth of the 

 foremost part of the foot 3.6-5.0 mm. The height of the rhinophoria 

 reached about 2.2 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.0 mm. 



1 he form almost entirely as in the typical form and as in the L. 

 ftystridna. '1 he head as in the last species ; also the openings of the 

 rhinophor-holes, with their (^mostly three) larger tubercles, set with 

 equal spaces ; the club of the rhinopliuria with about twt he to fifteen 

 rather thick leaves. The tubercles of the back as in the L. hystri- 

 cina ; the number of larger ones much exceeding that of the smaller, 

 which are scattered between them. The branchial disk as in the Z. 

 hyslricina, also the branchial leaves, whose number did not surpass 

 twelve to twenty. The foot as usual. 



The central nervous system (fig. 1) nearly as in the L. hystricina. 

 The cerebro-vitceral ganglia of roundish or oval form, as also the 

 pedal ones which were not much smaller than the former. The com- 



' In my "Malacolog. Unters." (Semper, Philipp. II, ii, Heft xiv, 1S78, 

 p. CCG-G13 ; Tab. Ixiv, lig. V.\ 14-1'.' ; Tab. Ixv, fig. l-.-), C 1^) I have given 

 some anatomical remarks on the typical L. bilamella(a and on the Green- 

 landic variety {D. lilurata, Beck). 




.68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



missura pedalia nearly as long as the diameter of the pedal ganglia ; 

 the subcerebral lying rather close up to the pedal ; the visceral quite 

 free, much thinner. A very short-stalked smaller ganglion (fig. Ic) 

 connected with the under side of the right visceral ganglion, gives off' 

 a nerve that swells into a new ganglion, which sends out three nerves 

 (N. genitalis). The olfactory ganglia short-stalked, spindle-shaped. 

 The buccal (fig. Id and the gastro- oesophageal ganglia (fig. le), nearly 

 as in the L. hystricina ; the commissure between the first extremely 

 short, the gastro-oesophageal somewhat smaller. 



The nervi optici one to one and a-half times as long as the diameter 

 of the cerebral ganglia ; the eyes with black pigment, yellowish lens. 

 The otocysts (fig. 1) lying rather backwards, a little smaller than the 

 eyes ; the otokonia of the usual form, in number about fifty. The 

 leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula. In the skin were almost 

 no spicula and no larger or calcified ones on the surface of the rigid 

 papillai of the back, which thus were rather smooth. In the intersti- 

 tial connective tissue small calcified cells, but no larger spicula. 



The mouth-tube as in the L. hystricina. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 as in that species, but the sheath of the radula shorter and less 

 prominent, bent upwards, sideways or down and forwards. On the 

 interior part of the nearly colorless labial disk, the usual belt of 

 (about twelve to fifteen) rows of small denticles. The tongue strong, 

 rather long, with curved superior and nearly straight inferior margin. 

 In the mature radula twelve to fourteen or sixteen rows of teeth, 

 further backwards fifteen or sixteen to eighteen rows of developed, 

 and three of partly developed teeth ; the total number of rows thus 

 thirty, thirty-one or thirty-five to thirty-seven. The median plates 

 (fig. 14) of nearly the usual form, in the under side rather excavated, 

 with 'thickened margins. The large lateral plates (fig. 13) formed 

 nearly as in the L. hystricina^ but larger, reaching a height of 0.12 

 mm. ; the denticulation of the interior margin of the hook stronger, 

 with more (about twenty) denticles and reaching farther out towards 

 the end of the hook. The exterior plates nearly of the same form as 

 in the last species, reaching to the height of about 6 mm. 



The sucking-crop quite as in the former species. 



The salivary glands much smaller than in the former species, re- 

 duced to a large, scarcely lobed, whitish mass on each side of the 

 root of the oesophagus. 



The oesophagus somewhat spindle-shaped. The stomach included 

 in the liver. The intestine issuing from the liver behind its middle. 




1880.] NATUUAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 69. 



The liver of grayish-white color, of the length of about ll.o mm. by 

 a breadth of 4 and a height of about .3.75 mm. ; the hinder end 

 rounded, the fore-end rather truncated, the anterior one-third on the 

 upper and right side flattened by the anterior genital mass. 



The heart and the renal syrinx as usual ; the median renal cham- 

 ber continued to the fore-end of the liver. The sanguineous glands 

 connected on the upper side of the central nervous system to a flat- 

 tened whitish mass. 



The glandula hermaphrodisiaca clothing the upper side of the liver, 

 and scarcely distinct from it in color ; in its lobules were large ojgene 

 cells. The anterior genital mass compressed, plano-convex; 4.0 mm. 

 long, by a height of about 3. .3 and a breadth of 1.2 mm. The albumi- 

 nous gland on the left side of the mass and forwards, yellowish, very 

 finely gyrated on the surface ; the mucous gland whitish, pellucid. 

 The spermatoduct as well as the (3.0 mm. long) penis as in the L. 

 echinata. The spermatotheca rather small, spherical. 



L. varians, var. 



To this same species belonged certainly five specimens of a Lam- 

 ellidoris, which were taken by Dall in July, 1873, at Unalashka 

 Island (Aleutians), at the depth of sixty fathoms on mud and stones. 

 Nevertheless, the color of these animals in the living state was, accord- 

 ing to Dall, "yellowish-white." 



The size and the particular measures accorded witli those of the 

 more typical individuals, referred to above. 



The central nervous system as just mentioned, so even the eyes and 

 the otocysts. The bulbus pliaryngeus of the usual form ; on the tongue 

 eleven rows of teeth, farther backwards twenty-six developed and four 

 not quite developed rows, the total number thus forty-one. The plates 

 quite as formerly described. The sucking-crop quite as in the typical 

 form, also the salivary glands. The whitish sanguineous gland entirely 

 covering the central nervous system. The penis as usual. 



Two specimens of another variety of this form were gotten by Dall, 

 in July, 1873, at Kyska Island, on sandy bottom, and at a deptli of 

 nine to fourteen fathoms. In a living state they were, according to 

 Dall, of yellowish color. 



The length of the animals preserved in spirits was 8.5 to ;>.0 mm., 

 by a breadth of G.O mm., and a height of about 3.5 mm. The color 

 was uniformly whitish or yellowish-wliite. One individual was dis- 

 sected. 




TO PHOCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The central nervous system was as above mentioned, and also the 

 eyes (their nervi optici rather long), and the otocysts (the number of 

 the otokonia about one hundred). The bulbus pharyngeus as usual ; 

 on the tongue sixti^en rows of teeth, farther backwards eighteen rows 

 of developed and four of younger teeth ; the total number of rows, 

 thirty-eight. The plates as above ; the length of the median plates 

 0.05 to 058 mm. ; the heiglit of the anterior large lateral plates 

 about 0.14 mm., of the posterior about 0.17 mm. ; the number of den- 

 ticles on these plates mostly fifteen to twenty. The vesica fellea was 

 at the left side of tlie pylorus. 



3. L. hystricina, Bcrgli. 



L. hystricina, Bergh, Mai. Untersuch., 1. c, 1878, p. G14, Tab. Ixviii, 

 fig. 17-23. 



Color cajrulescens. 



Dentes laterales margine interno denticulati sed non usque ad 

 apicem. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum (insula Kyska). 



One specimen of this species was found by Dall, at Kyska Island 

 (Aleutians), on rocky bottom, at a depth of ten fathoms, in June. 

 1873. According to Dall, the color of the living animal is bluish. 



The specimen preserved in spirits was 9.5 mm. in length, reached 

 a breadth of 6 mm., and a height of the true body (without the 

 papilhe) of 3.5 mm. ; the breadth of the foremost part of the foot 

 was 5.3 mm., the height of tlie rhinophoria was about 2.1 mm., of the 

 branchia about 1.2 mm., of the dorsal papillae 1.2 mm. The color 

 was uniformly whitish. 



The form was oval, the back not very convex. The head rather 

 large, formed like a velum, that is radiately folded, and has its side 

 parts connected with the ends of the anterior margin of the foot ; in 

 the middle of the hinder part of the under side of the velum is a trans- 

 verse slit, in which the small mouth-pore opens. The opening of the 

 rhinophor-holes was nearly round, with the margin rather thin, here 

 were three papillae of the same kind as on the back ; the rhinophoria 

 stout, the club with about twenty leaves. The back covered all over 

 with mostly stout, club-shaped papilte, apparently set without order, 

 and extending nearly out to the very margin of the mantle, which is 

 thin and has on the upper side smaller, cylindrical or club-shaped 

 papill*. The papillae all firmly adherent to the skin, the spicules shin- 

 ing through all over on the back and in the papilla?. The branchial 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF I'lIILADKLIMllA. 71 



disk ratl)er large, at tlie margin s(it with about fourteen papilla;, irregu- 

 larly alternating in size. The branchia compoped of twelve small 

 leaves of the usual kind. The centre of tiie disk and the anus as 

 usual. The foot somewhat shorter and narrower than the back, 

 broader in front, Avith the anterior margin rather straight, rounded 

 posteriorly. 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia showed the visceral part a little larger 

 than the cerebral, the pedal somewhat smaller than the visceral ; the 

 four commissures as usual; the offshoot of the nerva genitalis could 

 not be determined. The buccal ganglia rounded, connected through a 

 short commissure ; the gastro-cesophageal having about one-quarter of 

 the size of the latter. 



The eyes with very rich black pigment ; the nervus opticus not short. 

 The otocysts as large as the eyes, filled with otokonia of the usual 

 kind. In the thin leaves of the rhinophoria no spicula. In the skin 

 of the back and in the dorsal papillie an enormous amount of irregular 

 or rounded particles, often coalescing together in larger, irregular 

 lumps, which very often were crowded together in irregular heaps ; in 

 the papillae also were long, strong and very much calcified spicula, 

 often of uneven surface, whose points, as usual, often projected on the 

 surface of the papilhe. In the interstitial connective tissue, including 

 the ends of the different ducts of the genital organs (vagina, mucous 

 gland duct), masses of large and long (as much as 0.9 mm.), calcified 

 spicula. 



The mouth-tube was about 1.0 mm. long, rather wide, with strong, 

 longitudinal folds. The bulbus pharyngeus of usual, irregular form, 

 the bulbus proper of the length of about 1.75 mm. ; the sheath of the 

 radula, nearly as long as the bulbus, curved downwards. The labial 

 disk oval, at the inner margin of darker color, and there showing 

 (fig. 17) a narrow belt of small, yellowish denticles, of a height of 

 0.007 to 0.015 mm. ;• this belt seems continued a short space up in 

 the mouth that is otherwise, like the rest of the buccal cavity, clothed 

 with a rather thick, yellowish cuticula. 'J be tongue rather long and 

 narrow, in the groove on its back sixteen rows of teeth, in the sheath 

 eighteen developed and six undeveloped rows, the total number conse- 

 quently forty. The color of the true lateral teeth yellowisli, the others 

 nearly colorless ; the height of the outer pseudo-plates about 0.075 mm. 

 'I he median pseudo-plates elongate, narrow (fig. 21) ; the true ( lateral) 



' In the outer mouth was found a little Caprella, of the length of 3.0 nun. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



teeth strong, linely denticulated (with six to eight denticles) on the 

 iiiiK-r side ot" the hook, and witli a strong, rounded prominence at 

 the hase of this (tig. ]Sa, 19, '20); the external {)seudo-j)lates with 

 the usual curved points (fig. iSb). Irregularities in the form of the 

 last were often observed (fig. 23).^ 



The croji entirely as in the typical species, the largest diameter 

 1.3 mm. 



In the stomach indeterminable animal matter and a little, undeter- 

 minable worm, of the length of 2.0 mm. 



The hermaphroditic gland as usual ; the lobules filled with sperma. 

 The anterior genital mass rather large, measuring in length 4.5 mm., 

 in height 2.5 mm., and in breadth 2.3 mm. ; the left side flat or a little 

 excavated, the right rather convex. The mucous gland, as well as 

 the albuminous gland, white and yellowish-white. The spermatoduct 

 not very long, but rather strong, continued in the very strong penis, 

 that (retracted) forms the fore-end of the whole mass. The penis has 

 a length of about 3.5 mm., by a diameter of 1.3 mm. ; the inferior 

 end rather constricted ; the superior three-quarters of the organ com- 

 pact, perforated through the axis by the dense coils of the spermato- 

 duct proper ; the inferior one third hollow, including the curved and 

 pointed glans. 



2. L. muricata (Muller). Plate IX. fig. 18; Plate XI, fig. lO-Ii. 



Doris muricata, O. F. Miiller. Zool. Dan. Fas. Ill, 1789, p. 7, Tab. 



LXXXV, f. 2, 3, 4. 

 Doris muricata, Muller. Sars, (forma ^) Loven, Ind. Moll. Scand. 184(1^ 



p. 5. 

 Dorii muricata, Meyer und Moebius. Fauna der Kieler Bucht, I, 1865, 



p. 73-75, Taf. Vc, fig. 1-8. 

 .' LamelUdoris muricata, Muller. G. 0. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 



1878, p. 307, Tab. Xllt, fig. 6. 



Color flavidus vel luteo-albus. 



Dentes laterales magni hamo denticu'ato sed non usque ad apicem. 



Hah. Oc. Atlanticum septentr. 



The original specimen on which Miiller founded his Doris muricata. 

 does not exist, and by his incomplete description it is now completely 

 impossible with full certainty to determine what species was meant by 

 liis description. In future the species described by Meyer and Moebius 



^ From the presence of only one individual, the examination of the radula- 

 was extremely difificult and limited, as also that of the genital organs. 



i 




JS80.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADEI.TMll A. 73 



and by me ought to be called by that name. To the same is without 

 doubt to be referred the second variety (/9) of the D. muricatn 

 (Mitller, vSars) of Lovin (the first being the D. Lov'ni of Alder). 



Of this form, and under that name, I have had two well conserved 

 specimens for examination, kindly sent me by Mr. Friele, of Bergen, 

 and caught in the neighborhood of that place. 



The individuals (preserved in spirits) were of light yellowish color.' 

 The length 9-10 mm. by a breadth of 5-6.0 and a height of nearly 

 .■>.0 mm. : the breadth of the foot reaching 3..5 mm. ; the height of the 

 rhinophoria 1.5, of the branchial leaves 1.0 mm. The form of the 

 animal as usual ; the warts of the back not large, mostly truncate, 

 clavate. The openings for the rhinophoria as usual, with two tubercles 

 before them, or one on each side; the club with about fifteen to twent)' 

 leaves.^ The branchial leaves about twelve to fourteen, as far as could 

 be determined;'' the space inclosed by the gill covered with the usual 

 tubercles ; the anus presenting the ordinary features. The head rather 

 large, the side parts adhering to the foot throughout their whole length. 

 The genital groove with three openings ; a foremost round, a median 

 spalt-formed, and a posterior large and round. 



Both individuals were dissected ;. the peritoneum was colorless. 



In the central nervous system the cerebro-visceral ganglia appeared 

 rather short, reniform ; the pedal ones of roundish form^ somewhat 

 larger than either of the former ;. the commissures rather short. The 

 olfactory ganglion short-stalked,, nearly spherical, situated rather 

 posteriorly on the upper side of the cerebral ganglia, and nearly a> 

 large as the buccal ones. The buccal ganglia of oval outline, con- , 

 nected by a short commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal nearly spherical. 

 in size about one-quarter of the former, short-stalked: a secondary 

 ganglion lying above the last on the oesophagus. 



The eyes not short-stalked ; with rich black pigment and yellow 

 lens. The otocysts a little smaller than the eyes, filled with otokonia 

 of the common kind. In the leaves of the rhinophoria rather few but 

 large spicula of the same kind as in the skin, more or less perpendicu- 

 lar on the free margin ; the axes of the club like the stalk still mori- 

 richly endowed with smaller and larger spicules. Under the ghi'^s tin- 



' According to Lovt-n the color is yellowish; to Meyer and Moobius wliitc 

 or yellowish-white ihe rhinophoria orange-colored. 



'■ According to Meyer and Moebius the club of the rhinophoria has l»nt 

 nine or ten leaves. 



' Meyer and Moebiu.s mention eight leaves as nearly constant. 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



nkin between the warts, as well as the warts themselves, showed the 

 white spicules everywhere shining through ; the spicules often project- 

 ing from the surface of the warts The spicules for the greater part 

 very large, long, and reaching a diameter of at least 0.05 mm. ; they 

 were strongly calcified, mostly straight or slightly curved, the surface 

 nearly even. In the interstitial tissue were rather many spicules, but 

 (as in the rhinophoria) less calcified than in the skin. 



The mouth-tube rather wide. The bulbus pharyngeus of nearly 

 usual form, about 1.6 mm. long; the sheath of the radula, moreover, 

 projecting backwards about 0.4 mm., bent somewhat upwards or down- 

 wards; the lip-disk with a rather thick yellowish cuticula ; the sucking- 

 crop large, larger than the true bulbus, to which it adheres by a very 

 short petiolus. The tongue with nine rows of teeth, further back 

 twenty to thirty-two developed and three younger rows ; the total 

 number of rows, thirty-two to forty-four.' The yellow median plates 

 (fig. lOa) about 0.05 mm. long, of the usual form. The large lateral 

 plates yellow, of about 0.12 mm. height ; the form as usual ; the hook 

 with about fifteen to sixteen fine denticles, and a strong tooth at the 

 inside of the base (fig. 10^6). The external plate colorless, about 0.04 

 mm. in height, with the usual rudiment of a hook (fig. 10c, llJ).^ 



The salivary glands white, rather thick, making two or three short 

 coils at the sides of the oesophagus. The oesophagus as usual. The 

 intestine emerging from the liver at about the middle of its length ; 

 the biliary sac (fig. 18) is at the pyloric part of it, situated deeply, 

 scarcely showing itself on the surface of the liver and opening (fig. 

 •18a) into the stomach close to the pylorus. The liver about 6.5 mm. 

 long by a breadth of 3,0 mm, and a height of 2.0 mm,, deeply excav- 

 ated in the anterior third of its right side, and of light yellow color. 

 The sanguineous gland much flattened, whitish, heart-formed, of about 

 1,5 mm, largest diameter. The renal chamber rather wide, the tube 

 on its floor strong. 



' Meyer and Moebius (1. c. p. 73) mention twenty-nine rows ; Alder and 

 Hancock thirty. 



' The representations of the external plate by Meyer and Moebius [l. c. 

 fig. 2, 6) are not natural. Alder and Ilanc. (1. c, Part VII, p. ii, PI. 46, 

 supplem, text) mention two external plates in their D. muricata (as in their 

 D. diaphana) ; either the D. muricata of A. and H. must be another species, 

 or they must have fallen into error from the particular view which is some- 

 times had in certain positions of the hind ends of the large lateral teeth 

 with the external ones. 



■ ■ 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCKS OK PHILAKELPHI A. T'» 



The lobes of the hermaphroditic gland without developed sexual 

 elements. The anterior genital mass about 2.5-3.0 mm. in length by 

 a height of 2.0 mm. and a breadth of l.O-l.o mm. The ampulla of 

 the hermaphroditic duct of yellowish color, rather thick ( — 0.75 mm. 

 diameter), making a wide curve, about 2.5 mm. long. The spermato- 

 duct long; its first part thinner, about 0.0 mm. long, then through a 

 stricture of the length of nearly 1 mm., passing into the thicker pan, 

 which in Its last half increases in thickness, and, all in all, has the 

 length of about fi.O mm. by a diameter of 0.75 mm. ; the last part 

 (fig. 12c) passes into the penis', in whose cavity (fig. I'llfb ) the glans 

 (fig. 12a) projects as a short club, the proper seminal duct passing 

 down to the gland in nearly continual cork-screw windings, and often 

 shining through the walls of the external coat. The spermatotheca 

 whitish, nearly spherical, of about 1.3 mm. diameter, filled with sem- 

 inal matter and detritus ; the spermatocysta elongate, nearly twice a< 

 long as the former, yellowish, deeply imbedded in the mucous gland, 

 filled with ripe semen ; its duct somewhat longer than the cysta. The 

 vagina short.- The mucous gland yellowish and yellow. 



The species approaches to the L. hystricina and L. varians (of 

 the Pacific), but differs entirely in its colors; still the possibility can- 

 not be denied that further investigations may show both the Pacific 

 " species " to be merely varieties of the old LamelUdoris nmricata 

 of the Atlantic. 



ADALAEIA, Hergh. 



Adalaria, R. Bergh. Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp. II, ii). Ilcft 



XrV, 1878, p. xl. 

 Adalaria, R. Bergh. Gattungen nord. Doriden, 1. c. 1879, p. 360. 



Forma corporis fere ut in Lamellidoridibus. Notha-um papillulii- 

 tum vel subgranulosum. Branchia (non retractilis) e foliis vix mul- 

 tis, in formam ferri equini ut plurimum dispositis formata. Caput ut 

 in Lamellidoridibus, latum, semilunare, tentaculis vix ullis vel brevi.*- 

 simis lobiformibus. Apertura' rhinophoriales Integra?, tuberculin 

 anticis 2-3, calvitie postica. 



Discus labialis non armatus. Lingua rhachide lamellis depressis 

 instructa ; pleurls dente laterali interno hamiformi majore et seric 



' Tlie e.xserted penis is figured by Meyer and Moebius (1. c. taf. fig. 4) 

 and mentioned as cylindrico-conical. 



' The upper end of the vagina seemed to present a particular divertirle. 




Tt? PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880 



Jentium externorum sat applanatorum pnuditis. Ingluvies buccalis 

 bulbo pharyngeo petiolo connata. 



Penis glande parva inermi. Vagina brevis. 



The genus lias been established by the author (1878) to receive 

 the D. proximo and its allies. The Adalarice externally approach 

 nearest to the Lamellidorides ; their branchial leaves are also dis- 

 posed mostly in horseshoe form, but fewer in number. The head and 

 the tentacles are more as in the Acanthodorides. The back is nearly 

 as in the Lamellidorides, but the granules are sometimes more pointed. 

 The opening for the rhinophoria as in the Lamellidorides, with plain 

 margin ; before them two to three tubercles, behind them the glabella.. 

 The lip-disk only covered by a strong cuticula. The armature of the 

 tongue approaching to that of the Acanthodorides. The rhachis of the 

 tongue carries depressed small yellow plates ; at each side of these a 

 large hook-formed yellow plate, and further outwards a .series of 

 .smaller, nearly colorless plates, of which the inner ones are more 

 compressed, the rest depressed. The sucking-crop as in the Lamelli- 

 dorides, through a petiolus fixed to the bulbus. The salivary glands 

 as in the Lamellidorides. The cesophagus wider at its root. The 

 penis unarmed ;. the vagina short. 



The Adalarice are Lamellidorides with a tongue resembling that of 

 the Acanthodorides ; they form a sort -of connecting link between these 

 two groups. 



Of the typical species, the spawn is known (through Alder and 

 Hancock) and some few notices have been published about their 

 biology (through Meyer and Moebius) ; Sars mentions' the swimming 

 of Ad. Loveni. 



The genus seems to belong to the northern oceans ; only five species 

 seem hitherto known. 



1. Ad. proxima A. et H.), Oc, Atlanticus sept. 

 ■2. Ad. pacifica, Bgh., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 



3. Ad. virescenit, Bgh., n. sp. Oc. Pacif. 



4. Ad. albopapi!lo»a (Dall). Oc. Pacif. 



5. Ad. Loveni (A., et H.). Oc. Atlant. sept. 



1. Adalaria proxima (Alder et Hancockj. PI. IX, fig. 12-15. 



Doris proxima, A. et H. Monogr. Part VI, 1854. Fam, 1, PI . 9, figs. 



10-10 ; Part VII, 1855. PI. 46, suppl. f. 8. 

 Doris proxima, Meyer u. Moebius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, I, 1865, 



P. 69-71 ; taf. V b, fig. 1-8. 



1 Sars, Bidr. til Soedyrenee. Naturhist. 1829, p. 17. 



al 




1880.] NATLBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7" 



Color flavus vel e rubro flavus. 



Denies laterales (magni) hamo edentulo ; externi Dumero 10. 



Hab. Oc. Atlant, septentr. 



Of this form I have had for examination three specimens of nearly 

 equal size, kindly sent me by Prof. Moebius in Kiel, and caught in 

 the neighborhood of that town. 



The individuals wpre of a uniform whitish color, the liver shining 

 reddish-gray through the foot. Alder and Hancock have already re. 

 marked this shining through of the liver. The length was ".0-8.0 mm.. 

 by a breadth of 5.0-.5.'), and a height of about .3.5 mm. ; the height of 

 the rhinophoria about 1.25, of the branchial leaves 0.75 mm. The 

 form nearly as in the Ad. pacifica, also the tubercles (fig. 12) of the 

 back and the surroundings of the rhinophor-holes ; the branchial 

 leaves nine to ten in number. The number of branchial leaves ac- 

 cording to Alder and Hancock is eleven, according to Meyer and 

 Moebius eight or nine. The rhinophoria with about fifteen to twenty 

 leaves. The lateral parts of the head nearly connate with the foot, 

 and only slight traces of true pointed tentacles. The foot as in th.- 

 next species. 



The three individuals were anatomically examined. The peritoneum 

 colorless. 



The central nervous system as in the Ad. pacifica, but less de- 

 pressed. The eyes and otocysts as in that species ; the last with 

 about 200 otokonia of very varying diameter, reaching about 0.n2 

 mm. The spicula of the skin as described by P^nglish and German 

 authors ; a rather large quantity spread in the skin of the head. 



The bulbus pharyngeus (with the crop) of the length of about 1.5 

 mm., by a height of 1.5 and a breadth of 0.8 mm. ; the crop making 

 about half of the bulbus; the lip-di.<k with strong yellowish cuti- 

 cula ; the sheath of the radula a little promipent, bent more or less 

 upwards. The tongue narrow and pointed, with seven to nine rows 

 of teeth, further backwards thirty or thirty-one rows of developed and 

 three of younger teeth ; the total number thus amounts to forty or 

 forty-three. ' 



The teeth as in the Ad. pacifira. The large lateral yellowish, the 

 rest nearly colorless. The length of the median teeth about 0.025 to 

 0.03 mm. The large lateral (fig. 1.366, 14) showed the prominence 



' Alder and Hancock notice forty-one, Meyer and Moebius thirty-nine 

 rows of plates. 




7S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



:it the inside of the root of" the hook quite as in the Ad. pacijica. 

 The external teeth (fig. 15) only nine or ten in number,' fewer than 

 in that species, always absent on more than half the tongue. 



The salivary glands as in the next species, also the oesophagus, the 

 stomach and the intestine. The liver also of nearly the same form, 

 the inferior part of the posterior end continued as a little cone ; the 

 surface (especially of the back part) yellowish-white; the substance 

 yellow. The vesica fellea in its usual place, small. The heart as 

 usual, also the sanguineous gland. The renal syrinx and the urinary 

 chamber as usual. 



The anterior genital mass rather compressed, of angular-roundish 

 outline, of about l.tS mm. largest diameter. The spermatoduct seemed 

 shorter than in the next species, especially the second part ; the penis 

 short. The spermatotheca pyriform ; the spermatocysta of more oval 

 form, having only about one-quarter of the size of the former, and filled 

 with sperma. The mucous gland whitish and yellowish. 



2. Adalaria pacifioa, Bergh, n. sp., PI. IX, fig. 17; PI. X, fig. 1-3; PI. XI, fig. 15. 



Color lutescens. 



Dentes laterales (magni) hamo edentulo ; externi numero 15. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum (Unalashka). 



Of this species Dall caught three specimens, in September, 1874, at 

 Unalashka, on a bottom of mud and shells. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal is " yellowish ; '* 

 the specimens preserved in spirits were of a uniform yellowish color. 

 The length of the two larger specimens about 12.0 to 14.0 mm., by a 

 breadth of 8.0 to 9.0 mm , and a height reaching 4.5 to 5.0 mm. ; 

 the breadth of the foot 6.0 mm., the height of the rhinophoria about 

 1.5 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.2 mm. 



The form as in the Ad. proxima, a little broader anteriorly. The 

 back covered all over with a mass of rather stout, subglobose and sub- 

 petiolate tubercles quite as in the typical species, mixed with much 

 fewer smaller ones. The larger ones, under magnification, showing 

 the perpendicular spicula shining through, while other spicula were 

 detected irregularly scattered in the intervals between the tubercles. 

 The rhinophor-holes nearly without projecting margin ; the adjoining 

 part of the back, behind, smooth ; immediately before the holes, on 



^ The number of external plates is, according to Alder and Hancock, 

 ten, to Meyer and Moebius, eight or nine. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELrill A. 79 



the contrary, two or three larger tubercles ; the club of the rhinophoria 

 with about thirty leaves. The branchial area surrounded by larger 

 tubercles. The branchial leaves in number, eleven or twelve ; imme- 

 diately before the two hindermost was the slightly prominent anus, and 

 at its right side the renal pore ; in the space between the anus and 

 the branchial leaves, three or four larger and two or three smaller 

 tubercles. The head large; the tentacles bhort, pointed. The foot 

 broad, rounded behind, a little broader in front; the furrow on the 

 anterior margin very indistinct. The three individuals were all dis- 

 sected. The peritoneum was colorless. 



The central nervous system rather flattened ; the cerebral ganglia 

 larger than the visceral, which were lying at their outer margin and 

 were a little larger than the pedal ones ; the proximal olfactory ganglia 

 bulbiform, less large than the buccal ones, which were of short, oval 

 form, connected through a very short commissure ; the gastro-oesopha- 

 geal ganglia short-stalked, rounded, nearly half as large as the former, 

 with- a very large cell. The subcerebral and the pedal commissures 

 connected, the visceral free. 



The eyes with coal-black pigment, yellow lens ; the nervus opticus 

 in one individual with black pigment. The otocysts, under a mag- 

 nifier, very distinct as chalk-white points at the hinder margin of the 

 cserebral ganglia, nearly as large as the eyes, filled with ordinary oto- 

 konia. In the leaves of the rhinophoria scanty, scattered spicules, 

 {)erpendicular on the free margin, not much more calcified than in the 

 skin ; in the stalk of the organ the spicules larger and less scanty. 

 The skin, especially its tubercles, with many long spicules and calcified 

 cells and groups of such cells ; the form of the spicules different from 

 that of the Doris proximo, as figured by Alder and Hancock (Monogr., 

 Part vi, fam. 1, PI. 9, fig. 15% and by .Meyer and Moebius ( 1. c, figs. 

 ?, 9)i much less calcified, naore straight and of more uniform shape. 

 In the interstitial connective tissue of the chief ducts of the anterior 

 genital mass were scattered large spicules. 



The mouth-tube wide, about 1.3 mm, long. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 of ratiier compressed form, about 2.0 mm. long; the sheath of the 

 radula strongly projecting from the hinder end, nearly as long as 

 the bulbus, more or less curved upwards ; the lip-disk oval, with a 

 very strong yellowish cuticula, Tlie tongue with ten or eleven rows 

 of plates, further back twenty-nine to thirty-four rows of developed 

 and three of younger plates ; the total number thus forty-two, forty- 

 three, forty-seven. The median plate (PI. IX, fig. 17" ; PI. X, fig. 1) 




so PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



yellowish, of a length of about 0.045 mm., with a median furrow 

 along the upper side and with thickened margins. 'J'he large laterals 

 horn-yellow in color, reaching the height of about 0.1 mm. (PI. IX. 

 fig. lib; PI. X, fig. 2aa), hook-shaped, with a strong, rounded prom- 

 inence at the inside of the root of the hook (fig. It). On each side 

 (PI. X, fig. 2b, c) of the two large plates (in two individuals) con- 

 stantly fifteen smaller, nearly colorless plates of a length of about 

 0.06 mm. These plates were all somewhat depressed ; the five inner 

 ones smaller, somewhat compressed (fig. 2, 3«, 15) ; the others (fig. 2, 3) 

 broader, with the upper edge broad and irregularly toothed ; the outer- 

 most (fig. 2c) a little smaller than the adjoining plates. The bases in 

 each of the?e (fifteen) plates large, forming nearly half, or at least 

 making more than a third of the size of the whole plate.' The crop 

 of the bulbus of the usual form, as large or a little larger than the bulbus 

 itself; with a very short stalk with strong longitudinal musculature, 

 its aperture opening immediately behind the lip-disk. 



The salivary glands large, white, very elongate, in their foremo.<it 

 part broader, and with several coils filling the space left between the 

 crop, the bulbus and the esophagus. 



The (esophagus long. The stomach small, enclosed in the liver; 

 the intestine rather short, forming its knee behind the fore-end of the 

 liver. The large posterior visceral mass about 9.0 mm. long by a 

 breadth of 4.3 and a height of 3.5 mm. ; the posterior end somewhat 

 pointed, though rounded ; the fore-end broader, perpendicular, somewhat 

 flattened on the right side ; the color of the surface (hermaphroditic 

 gland) ash-gray, the interior (the liver) brown or black brown, or 

 (juite yellow. 



The heart as usual. The sanguineous gland irregularly reniform, 

 situated somewhat more towards the left side, rather thick, whitisli. 

 covering the central nervous system and a large part of the bulbus 

 pharyngeus from above. The renal syrinx as usual. 



The hermaphroditic gland without developed sexual elements. The 

 anterior genital mass proper rather small, compressed, of about 2.5 mm. 

 largest diameter, but the loop of the spermatoduct (and the penifi) 

 nearly as large as the rest of the mass. The spermatoduct long, 

 in its first part white, rather strong ; nearly as long as the second in 

 which it passes through a stricture; this last part is thicker, cylindrical, 

 elongated, about 5.0 mm. long, passing without exact limits into the 



' In both individuals the tliree to five foremost rows were without the 

 smaller plates, and the following two or three veiy incomplete in this respect. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



.short penis. The spermatotheca pyriform, about 1..'5 nun. long; the 

 ppermatocysta not having one-fourth of the size of the last ; both 

 empty. The mucous gland whitish and yellow-whitish. 



This seems even externally to difler somewhat from the typical form, 

 of which it nevertheless may prove to be but a variety. Neither Alder 

 and Hancock, nor Meyer and Moebius saw more than eight to (nine) 

 ten external plates on the tongue of Ad. proxima, while this Pacific 

 form always presented fifteen. 



3. Adalaria virescens, Cgh., n. .sp. Plate X, 6g. t, 5. 



Color virescens. 



Dentes laterales fmagni) hamo edentulo ; externi numero 15. 



Hab. Oc. Pacific, septentr. Unalashka. 



Of this species Dall found four specimens at Unalashka, on gravel, 

 in a depth of nine to fifteen fathoms, in September, 1874. 



According to Dall the color of the living animal was " greenish." 

 and the animals preserved in spirits showed remains of the same color 

 as a uniform grayish green. The length of these was 11.5-12.0 mm., 

 by a breadth of 8.0 mm. and a height of 5.0 mm, ; the height of the 

 rhinophoria about 2.0, of the branchial leaves about 1.0 mm. 



The form, as well as the rhinophor-openings, were quite as usual ; 

 the club of the rhinophoria with about thirty-five leaves. The gill not 

 large, with nine to twelve leaves ; the space within the gill as usual, 

 also the arms and the renal pore. The back covered with granula- 

 tions and short clubs. The head, with the tentacula) and the genital 

 opening as usual. 



Three individuals were dissected ; the peritoneum was colorless. 



The central nervous system showed the cerebral ganglia larger than 

 the visceral, which were lying on the outside of and behind the former, 

 very distinct from them ; the pedal ones being intermediate in size 

 between the cerebral and the visceral ganglia. On the exterior part of 

 each cerebral ganglion a little short-stalked ganglion (gang, opticum?) 

 was easily visible under a hand magnifier. The (proximal) olfac- 

 tory ganglia bulbiform, short-stalked, a little larger than the buccal 

 ganglia, which were short-oval, connected through a very short com- 

 missure ; the gastro-cesophageal being about one-fourth to one-tifth of 

 the size of the former. In the neighborhood of the penis a little oval 

 ganglion (g, penis) having a largest diameter of about 0.25 mm, 

 (fig. 5), containing only rather small cells. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The eyes with black pigment ; the otocysts with not very many and 

 not muoli calcified otokonia. No distal olfactory ganglion, as far as 

 oould be seen ; no f-picuhv in the leaves of the rhinophoria. The skin 

 as in other species ; the spicula projecting on the surface of the granu- 

 lations of the back. 



The bulbus pharyngeus about 1-1.5 mm. in length ; the sheath ot 

 the radula projecting 0.T5-1.0 mm., bent upwards ; the sucking-crop a 

 little hirger than the bulbus itself, short-stalked ; the lip-disk as usual. 

 The tongue compressed, rather prominent, with six, eight, and nine 

 rows of teeth, also further back twenty-four, thirty-two and thirty-three 

 developed and three younger rows ; the total number of rows thus 

 being thirty-five, forty-one, forty-five. The median plates, the large 

 lateral and the (fifteen) external ones scarcely different from those of 

 the last species. 



1 he salivary glands rather strong, with two or three short coils fill- 

 ing the space at the sides of the oesophagus (fig. 4), white. The 

 -esophagus ( fig. 4a ) wide in its upper part, the rest narrow. The an- 

 teriorly proceeding part of the intestine 2.0 mm. long, the other retro- 

 ceding part ^'.O mm. long ; no biliary sac could be found either at the 

 pylorus or higher up. The liver about 9 mm. long by a breadth of 

 4.2 and a height of 4.0 mm. ; of brownish-gray color ; the anterior end 

 truncate, inclined downwards and backwards; the anterior one-third of 

 the right side flattened for the anterior genital mass ; the posterior end 

 somewhat pointed, rounded at the point. 



The sanguineous gland whitish, covering the anterior end of the 

 bulbus pharyngeus and the foremost part of the central nervous system 

 or this last and the hinder part of the bulbus. 



The anterior genital mass about 3.5 mm. long by a breadth of 0.75 

 and a height of 1.5 mm., a very large part of it formed by the thick 

 part of the spermatoduct. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct 

 about 2.0 mm. long, rather thin, whitish. The spermatoduct long ; 

 the first part thinner, about 8.0 mm. long ; the rest making a large 

 curve, about 5.5 mm. long, about three times as thick as the first, with 

 a diameter of 0.6 mm. ; the spermatoduct proper making many coils in 

 its interior course downwards to the penis, which shows a little un- 

 armed glans in the bottom of its orifice ; in one individual the penis 

 was exserted as a conical prominence of the height of 1.0 mm. The 

 spermatotheca pyriform, about 1.0 mm. long, of grayish color; the 

 t»permatocyfita a little less large, spherical ; the vagina rather short. 

 The mucous gland rather small. 




H80.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHlLADELrillA. 80 



Even this ppecies might perhaps be merely a variety of the former ; 

 still it is of a quite different color and the back much more coarsely 

 "[ranulated. 



4 Adalaria albopapillosa (Dalli. PI. IX. rt,'. Ifi: PI. X, fi-. 9-11. 



Alderia {? ?) albopapillosa, Dall, Anier. Journ. of Conch., vii, 2, 1872, 

 p. 137. 



Color pallide flavescens, papillis dorsalibus niveis. 

 Denies laterales (magni) hamo basi denticulato. 

 Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. (Sitka). 



Of this curious animal Dall caught three specimens [in company 

 with the Doris {Archidoris) Montereyensix and the jEolidia {Her- 

 viissenda) opalescens'], in July, 18(55, on algtc, at the depth of six 

 fathoms, at Sitka (Alaska). 



According to the drawings of Dall, the color of the living animal is 

 very pale yellow,' the back all over covered with chalk-white papilliE ; 

 the length was 3, the breadth 2 lines. The three original specimen.^ 

 preserved in spirits were of a length of 5.5 to 7.0 mm., of a greatest 

 breadth of 4.0 to 4.5 mm., and a height of 2.75 mm. 1 he color was 

 uniformly translucent grayish and yellowish whitish. The form of the 

 animal was oval, the mantle a little larger than and hiding the rest of 

 the body. 'I he back convex, covered all over with a multitude of 

 cylindrical or fusiform, relatively rather large papillae, reaching to the 

 height of a full millimefre, and with some few small ones spread 

 between them. The rhinophor-openings at their usual place, having, 

 as usual (with retracted organs ', thin margins ; before them always 

 two larger papilhe, behind them a little naked space.'^ The club of 

 the (yellowish) rhinophoria with about twenty-five leaves. The gill 

 rather small ; the branchial leaves (yellowish', as usual, set in horse- 

 .shoe form, lower or at least not higher than the dorsal papilla', in 

 number, ten to twelve ; the anal papilla rather low, with one of the 

 ordinary papilhe before and one behind it ; the space between the 



' "Of an opaque white, the remainder of the animal except the eyes, 

 being translucent yellowish." — Dall. 



- Dall did not detect the retracted rhinophoria ("tentacles none") ; the 

 " black eyes sessile on the anterior surface of the body, near the mantle 

 margin," did not exist in the figure, but in one individual two black sand- 

 particles were lying there. The true eyes of the animal couhl not be de- 

 tected through the skin, and were lying more backwards. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



branchial leaves and the anus otherwise naked.' The genital open- 

 ing as usual. The foot rather large, with a very fine furrow in the 

 anterior margin. The head as usual ; the tentacles relatively rather 

 large 



The three individuals were dissected. The peritoneum was color- 

 less. 



The central nervous system quite as in the former species, the vis- 

 ceral ganglions lying outside of the cerebral ; no distal olfactory 

 ganglion could be detected ; the buccal ganglia connected through a 

 commissure at least as long as the diameter of the ganglion ; the 

 gastro-u'sophageal ganglia and the eyes as in the former species. 

 The otocysts could not be detected. In the leaves of the rhinophoria 

 the spicula much more scanty. In the skin the same kind of not 

 much calcified spicula as in the former species ; the papillae of the 

 back very richly endowed with such, and commonly with a mass of 

 them projecting with their points (1*1. IX, fig. IG) on the surface of the 

 papilla*. 



The bulbus pharyngeus as in the former species ; the length about 

 1..5 mm., two-fifths of which is the straight, backwards projecting 

 sheath of the radula ; the cuticula of the lip-disk as usual : the 

 buccal crop somewhat compressed, with rather long pedicel. The 

 tongue with nine or ten rows of plates, farther backwards sixteen or 

 seventeen developed and three younger rows ; the total number of 

 them, twenty-nine or thirty. The median plates (fig. 9a, lOn) nearly 

 as in the former species, or a little shorter. The large lateral plates 

 (fig. 9b, 106) rising to the height of 0.12 mm., yellow ; their form as 

 in the former species, but at the inside of the hook at its root were 

 three to six or seven to eight small denticles. The external lateral 

 plates (fig. lOcd, 11 j farther backwards, in number constantly eight; 

 the outermost (fig. 11a) very small, the others as in the former species. 



The salivary glands, as far as could be determined, were as in the 

 last species ; so also the oesophagus and crop ; also the stomach and 

 the intestine, which seemed to have the usual bag (pancreas, biliary 

 sac) at the pyloric part. The sanguineous gland flattened, grayish, 

 cordate. The liver of brownish-gray color. 



In the hermaphroditic gland no ripe elements were found, and the 

 anterior genital mass- was very small 



' According to Dall, the " anus is terminal under the edge of the mantle." 

 This was erroneous, lie did not see the gill, but regarded the dorsal papilhc 

 as "branchial appendages," ■ :i'.i.v;>;K\. 




1880.]; NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMIILADELPIIIA. 85 



The species is ea^y to distinguish from the former, by its color ami 

 ♦specially by the denticulated hook of the large lateral plates. 



5 Adalaria Lov6ni (Aldir et Hancock). PI. X, fig. 6-8. 



Doris muricata? O. F. Miiller, Sars, IJidr. til Soedyrcnes Naturh., 



1829, p. 15. Tab. II, fig. 7, 8. 

 Doris Lovcni, Alder et Ilanc. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 3 Ser., X, 18fi2, 



p. 262. 

 rjamellidoris Loveni, Friele et Arm. Hansen, 1. c. p. 3. 

 Lamellidoris Loveni, G. O. Sars. Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 364. 



Tab. XIV, fig. 1. 

 'Lamellidoris muricata (Miill.i Abildgaard. Morcb, fauuula Moll. 



Ins. Fiiroens. Naturh. Foren. VLd.sk. Meddel., 1867, p. 75.' 

 Doris muricata, Miiller, Sars ('''), Loven, Ind. Moll., 1846, p. 5. 

 Doris muricata, M. Sars. Reise i Lofoten og Finmaiken, 1851, p. 75. 



Color dorsi et rhinophoriarum e brunneo lutescens, paginal inferioris 

 «t branchiae lutescens. 



Dentes laterales (magni) hamo edentulo ; externi (lingu*) 

 numero 12. 



llab. Oc. Atlant. septentr. 



This species was first noticed by Sars, who hesitatingly regarded it 

 as perhaps the Doris viuricata of Mueller. It is, moreover, the prin- 

 cipal form of the Doris muricata (" Mueller, Sars ") of Lovui (his 

 second variety being the true L. muricata) ; has been established 

 (1862) as a species by Alder and Hancock, and has as such been 

 adopted by Friele and Hansen, as well as by G. O. Sars, who lately 

 gave figures of the teeth on the tongue. The species has been much 

 confounded with the " D. muricata,'' which is a Lamellidoris ; it is 

 certainly distinct from the Ad. proximn^ and seems also to differ from 

 the other described species. 



Of this form I have had fifteen individuals for examination, kindly 

 .sent me by Mr. Friele, of Bergen, and dredged in the neighborhood of 

 that place. 



' According to Morch (Rink, Gronland, I, 1857. Tilla-g 4, p. 7S\ the D. 

 muricata, Sars, should be the D. liturata. Beck ; this last is a mere variety 

 of the Lamellidoris hilamellata, and with this should, on the other hand, 

 according to Morch (Faunula Mollusc. Isl. Natuih. Foren. Vidcnsk. Med- 

 del., 1868, p. 203), the D. proxima of Meyer and Moobius be .synonymous, 

 which belongs to the quite different genus, Adalaria. An example more — 

 if guch were needed— of the way in which the Nudibranchiatu have Iwen 

 synonymized and .systematized. 




8S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The color of the animals preserved in spirits was uniformly yt;!- 

 lowish. The length was 13-15.0 mm., by a breadth of 8.5-9.5 and a 

 height of 4-5.0 mm. ; the breadth of the foot 6 mm. ; the height of 

 the rhinophoria about 2.5 mm., of the branchial leaves 1.0-1.3 mm. : 

 according to M. Sars the height of the rhinophoria is four to five times 

 that of the tubercles of the back, (1. c. p. IG, also in one of his figures 

 fig. 7). The form as usual; the back covered all over with large 

 roundt'd tubercles, which rose to the height of 1.5 mm., and were of 

 a similar breadth ; they were sessile or more or less subpedunculate, 

 sometimes set in indistinct longitudinal rows ; between the larger 

 tubercles everywhere were smaller ones of different sizes ; on the 

 margin of the back were tubercles of middle size or smaller ; the 

 spicula rather indistinct between and in the tubercles. The rhinophor- 

 openings as usual, two large tubercles before them ; the club of the 

 organs with about twenty-five leaves. The gill with eight to twelve 

 leaves ; according to M. Sars, the number of branchial leaves is ten.— 

 to Lovt'n, eight to ten. A large (high ) tubercle between the hindermost 

 leaves, before it the low anal papilla, and to the right side the renal 

 pore ; some few smaller papillfe were spread over the space between 

 the anus and the branchial leaves. The head large, broad ; the short 

 tentacuUe pointed. The genital opening as usual. 



Six individuals were dissected. The peritoneum was colorless. 



The central nervous system rather flattened, especially the visceral 

 ganglia, which lay on the outer side of and behind the cerebral ones, 

 which were a little larger ; the pedul ones larger than either of the 

 other ganglia, situated perpendicularly upon the former. The proxi- 

 mal olfactory ganglia bulbiform, a little smaller than the buccal ones ; 

 no distal could be found. The length of the commissures equal to the 

 largest diameter of the pedal ganglia ; the subcerebro-pedal about 

 three times as thick as the visceral. 'I he buccal ganglia of oval form, 

 connected through a short commissure ; the gastro-ocsophageal about 

 one-sixth of the former in size, with one very large cell. 



The eyes with black pigment, yellow lens ; the nervus opticus about 

 as long as the largest diameter of the cerebral ganglion. The otocyst** 

 of the same size as the eyes, situated externally at the junction of 

 the cerebral and the visceral ganglia ; with about fifty ordinary 

 otokonia, but among them four to six larger ones, of a diameter of 

 about 0.025 mm. The leaves of the rhinophoria nearly without 

 spicula ; in the axes, and especially in the stalks, on the contrary, an 

 enormous quantity of large spicula, in great part transversely situ- 




18S0.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'ln LADELPHIA. 87 



ated. In the skin a rather large quantity of spicula. The broad 

 centres of the warts of the back chalk-wiiite in transverse section, on 

 account of the mass of strong spicula wiiicli ascend in bundles through 

 the axes of the warts, their peripheral parts being free from spicula. 

 The spicula, for the most part, staff-shaped or cruciate, reaching a 

 diameter of about 0.08 mm. ; small and large rounded ones were 

 also very common ; the spicula mostly very strongly calcified. In the 

 interstitial tissue calcified cells were seen scantily. 



The mouth-tube was l.o mm. long; the bulbus pharyngeus about 

 1..5 mm. long, the sheath of the radula projecting about 7.^ mm., 

 bent upwards ; the sucking-crop nearly as large as the proper bulbus. 

 short-sfalked. The lip-disk with the cuticula rather thick, especially 

 at the inferior median line, here sometimes prominent and reminding 

 one of the two blades in the Acanthodorides. The tongue (in the six- 

 individuals examined) with seven to nine rows of teeth ; further back- 

 wards twenty-nine, thirty-one, or thirly-four (in three individuals) 

 developed, and three younger rows ; the total number of rows was 

 thus forty-two to forty-six. The median plates (fig. 8a) and the large 

 lateral (fig. fioa, 7, 8i) ones quite as in the Ad. Poc'fica, also the ex- 

 ternal ones (fig. 66, 8c), but the number of those never surpa.ssed ten 

 or twelve ;' frequently all gone from the tongue, and only existing in 

 the two to four posterior rows ; the height of the large lateral plates 

 rising to about 0.09 mm. 



The salivary glands, as usual, white. The oesophagus somewhat 

 wider in its first part ; the stomach as usual ; the liver of usual forni. 

 its substance of yellow color; on the first quarter of the right side an 

 impression for the anterior genital mass. The vesica fellea rather 

 smaller, on the right side of and a little behind the pyloric part of tin- 

 intestine, with its upper end appearing on the surface of the liver ; 

 the duct nearly as long as the bag, opening in the stomach. 



The sanguineous gland of subquadratic form, the largest diameter 

 about 2.3 mm., very much flattened, whitish. The tube on the floor 

 of the renal chamber rather strong. 



The hermaphroditic gland clothing the liver with a thin, whitish- 

 gray layer. The anterior genital mass small, nearly undeveloped, 

 much compressed, of about 1.7.") mm. in length, the height a little less. 

 The ampulla of the hermaphroditic gland thin, otherwise as usual. 



' According to Friele and Hansen (1. c. p. 3' the number of external 

 ])1ate8 is twelve ; the figure of these authors (Tab. II, fig. 1) is rather b;ui. 

 O. O. Sars has eleven to twelve external jilates in liis figure. 




88 PROCEEPINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



riie sperniatoduct as usual, also the penis.' The spermatotheca and 

 the .*5perinatocysta as usual. The mucous gland very small, whitish 

 and yellow. 



AC ANTHO DORIS, Uruy. 



Acanthodoris, Gray, Figs, of Moll. Animals, iv, 1850, p. 103, Guide Moll. 



Brit. Mus. 1857, p. 207. 

 Acanthodoris, Alder and Hancock, Mon. Brit. Nud. Moll., vii, 1855, p. 43, 



app. p. xvii. G. 0. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norvegiaj, 1878, p. 308, 



Tab. xiv, fig. 4. 



Acanthodoris, R. Bergh, Gattung. Nord. Doriden, 1. c, 1879, p. 35G 360. 



Forma corporis subdepressa. Nothieum supra sat grosse villosum. 

 Branchia (non retractilis) e foliis tripinnatis non multis et in orbem 

 positis formata. 



Caput latum, veliforme ; tentaculis brevibus, lobiformibus. Margo 

 aperturieum rhinophorialium lobatus. 



Discus labialis armatura e hamulis minutis formata et intra cuticula 

 incrassata prominenti instructus. Lingua rhachide nuda ; pleuris an- 

 gustis dente lateral!, hamiformi permagno et dentibus externis minutis 

 (4-8). 



Ingluvies buccalis bulbo pharyngeo connata. 



Penis armatura e hamulis minutis formata instructus. Vagina 

 longissima. 



The genus Acanlhodori)i was established by Gray, to receive the 

 Doris pilosa with its non-retractile gill. Alder and Hancock adopted 

 the genus, made an anatomical examination of the typical form and 

 gave it natural characters, which were then adopted by Gray. In, 

 several new malacological publications of a systematic nature the genus 

 has been omitted, and in the last twenty years no new information has 

 been published, until G. O. Sars lately gave some notes on the bulbus 

 pharyngeus. 



The Acanthodorides approach the Lamellidorides, yet differ ex- 

 ternally in the scattered soft villosities of the back and in the smaller 

 number of the leaves of the gill, which are arranged in a circle. 



Internally they differ still more, in the presence of a strong, oral 

 armature, in a different dentition (4^8+1+0+1+8-1-4), by a pecu- 



' Bars (1. c." p. 16) mentious and figures (fig. 8) the penis as " a large, 

 white, conical" organ. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 89 



liarly armed penis and by the imbedding in the pharyngeal bulbus of 

 the buccal crop.' 



The Acanthodorides are not much depressed. The back is covered 

 with soft villi or papilla3 ; the openings for the rhinophoria have lob«'il 

 margins. The gill is not retractile, and consists of several ( generally 

 seven to ninej tripinnate leaves, quite distinct from one another.^ 



The labial dii^k is provided with a densely set armature of small 

 hooks, passing backward on the cuticula of the mouth. This last also, 

 in the lowest part of the mouth, at each side of the median line is 

 thickened and projects like two thin, lancet-shaped blades over the 

 bare space left between the lower parts of the prehensile collar.^ The 

 form of the bulbus pharyngeus is as in the Lamellidorides, but the 

 buccal crop is imbedded in the upper wall of the bulbus, opening into 

 it through a slit, and is not connected with it by a short stalk. 



The tongue is not broad, but nearly fills the buccal cavity, with a flat 

 furrow for the radula. This last has a naked rhachis, with a low and 

 narrow, longitudinal fold. The pleurte contain a very large, com- 

 pressed, upright, lateral plate, with a large body and a rather short, 

 strong hook, denticulated or plain along the inner margin ; at the 

 outer side of the large plate are several (four to eight) small, external 

 plates (increasing in number backwards ). The salivary glands long, 

 thicker in their foremost part. The oesophagus with a little, crop-like 

 diverticle at its root. Above the pyloric part of the intestine opens a 



^ The genus Cah^cidoris, of Abraham (Notes on some new genera of 

 Nudibranchiate Moll., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 4th ser., xviii, 1876, p. 132 ; 

 and Revision of the Anthobranchiate Nudibr. Moll., P. Z. S., 1877, p. 224), 

 which is said to be allied to the Acanthodorides and Lamellidort'des, still 

 differs by its " subretractile " gill, with simple pinnate leaves, and does 

 not possess external plates on the radula. The genus is very probably 

 apocryi^hal ; in the phanerobranchiate Dorididce it often happens that the 

 gill appears as if more or less retracted in a cavity. A single new species 

 is mentioned, of unknown habitat, the C. Guntheri, Abr., 1. c, p. lo3, PL 

 vi, fig. 1. 



■^ Alder and Hancock mention and figure (1. c, PI. 15, fig. 2, 3) the 

 branchial leaves as "united at the base ;" so do Meyer and Moebius (1. c, 

 p. 65) ; this is not the case. The leaves are quite isolated, but there are 

 usually one or two foliola standing between them, which might simulate a 

 coherence of the leaves (cf. also PI. xv, fig. 6, A. and II.). 



' These thickenings of the cuticle have been regard(>d, both by Aldtr 

 and Hancock, and more lately by Meyer and Moebius (1. c, p. G4, taf. v 

 A, fig. 8, K 9), as "jaws," but have hardly anything in common with those 

 organs properly so called. 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



little sac, which seems to be homologous with the biliary sac (pancreas, 

 autt.) of other Dorididse. Alder arid Hancock, therefore, have de- 

 nominated that part of the digestive tract as " stomach," although it 

 in no essential respect differs from the rest of the intestine, and is 

 just like that part in the Chromodorides, and should be undoubtedly 

 regarded as the pyloric part of tlie intestine, when that sac opened 

 lower down, as in the Chromodorides,^ in the cavity, which is included 

 in the liver, and seems to be the true stomach. The spermatoduct and 

 the chief duct of the spermatotheca (vagina) are of very considerable 

 length ; the former consisting of two different parts, a superior softer, 

 and an inferior very muscular part, internally clothed with an arma- 

 ture, which is continuous through the penis. This last is rather short, 

 the superior part solid and projecting as an armed glans into the in- 

 ferior, hollow part (prieputium ). The armature consists of rows of 

 hooks continued in the interior of the organ, and, as mentioned above, 

 farther upwards ; quite like that of the Pohjceridse^- Phyllidiidse^ 

 and Doriopsidsc.* 



About the biological relations of these forms very little is yet known 

 and that only with reference to the typical species, through Alder and 

 Hancock, as well as Meyer and Moebius. The spawn is figured by 

 Alder and Hancock (1, c, PI. 15, fig. &), and by Meyer and Moebius 

 (1. c., fig. 13, 14) ; about the development nothing is yet known. 



The few known species of this genus seem limited to the northern 

 parts of the Atlantic and of the Pacific. 



1. AcanOiodoria pilosa (O. F. Miiller). Oceanum Atlauticum et Pacificurat 

 Doris pilosa, Cuv. 

 Boris stellata (Gm.), Cuv.^ 



' Cf. my Malacolog, Unters. (Semper, Philipp., II, ii), Heft xi, 1877, p. 

 464-494 ; Neue Nacktschnecken der Siidsee, ii, Journ. der Mus. Godeffroy, 

 Heft viii, 1875, p. 72-82 ; idem, iv, 1. c. Heft xiv, 1879, p. 1-21. 



2 Cf. my Malacolog. Uuters. (Semper, Philipp., II, ii). Heft xi, 1877 

 (Trevelyana, Nembrotha). 



3 Cf. my Bidr. til en Monogr. af Pbyllidierne, Naturh., Tidskr. 3, R. V., 

 18G9 ; Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp., II, ii). Heft x, 1876, p. 377- 

 387. 



< Cf., 1. c. Heft X, 1876, p. 384-387 ; Journ. der Mus. Godeffroy, Heft 

 viii, 1875, p. 82 94. 



^ According to Fischer (Note sur quelques especes du G. Doris, dccrites 

 par Cuvier, Journ de Conchyl. 3 ser. x, 1870, p. 290), the Doris stellata, 

 Cuv., and the D Iceois, Cuv., are identical with his D. pilosa, and this with 

 the typical form of Miiller. 



The D. stellata of Philippi seems a quite dlflferent form, a Platydoris 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Doris IcBvis, Cuv. 



? Doris fusca, O. F. Mijll., Zool. Dan. fdescr.).' 

 ? Doris tomentosa, Loven, Index Moll. 1846, p. 4. 

 2. A. subquadrata (Aid. et Ilanc). Occanum Atlanticum. 



Doris suhquadrata, A. et H. Monoj^r., Part. V, 18")1, fam. 1, Plate 



10, f. 1-3 ; Part VII, 1855, p. 43, and III, PI. 40, Suppl. f. 14. 

 ? {D. steUatn, Cuv. ?). Lebeit, Ik'ob. iiber die Mundunfj einiger 



Gasteropoden. J. Muller, Arch., 1846, p. 441-446, Taf. XII, fig. 



10-1 a.'' 

 Z. A. carnlescens, Bgh., n. sp. Oceanum Pacificum. 



4. A. ornata, Vcrrill. Notice of recent additions to the mar. fauna of the 



castem coast of North Amer. XXXVIII ; Amei*. Jouni. of Sc. and 

 Arts, XVI, 1878, p. 313. Oc. Atlant. 



5. A. stellata (Om.), Verr., 1. c, p. 313, D. bifida, Ven\ Oc. Atlant. 



6. A. citrina, Verr., 1. c, p. 313. Oc. Atlant. 



7. A. ? mollictlla, Abraham, 1. c, 1877, p. 228, PI. XXX, fig. 1-4. Oc 



Pacificum. 



8. A. ? globosa, Abr., 1. c, 1877, p. 228, PI. XXX, fig. 5-9. Oc. Pacif. 



I. Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. Miillcr). Plate X, fig. 12-15; Plate XI, fi^'. 1-2; 



Pl.itf XII: Plate XIII, fig. 2-5. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. Miiller), Alder and Hancock. Monogr. Br. 

 Nudibr. Moll., Part V, 1851, fam. 1, Plate I, f. 1, 3-5, 12; 1 late 2, 

 f. 2-G; Plate 15; Part VII, 1855, Plate 46; Suppl. Plate 48, f. 1. 



Doris pilosa lO. F. Midler), Meyer und Moebius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, 

 I, 1865, p. 63-07 c. tab.; taf. V, A. 



Color pagina' superioris corporis albus vel luteus vel fuscus vel 

 griseus vel rubro-brunneus vel niger. 



Denies radula> hamo pro parte denticulato. 



Hah. Oceanum Atlantieum .septentr., Pacific, septentr. 



I Platyd. Fhilippii, Bgh.). Cf. my JIalacolog. Untcrsuch. (Semper, Philipp. 



II, ii.). Heft, xii, 1877, p. 507. 



' It i.s in most cases a C)uite useless task to try to elucidate the species of 

 Dorides of the elder authors ; their examinations were all too superficial 

 and their descriptions don't contain tlie data necessary for their verifica- 

 tion. The best way would be to wholly cancel these names (D. fusca, M. ; 

 D. kevis, L., etc.) which have given later authors so much trouble. On the 

 Doris fusca of O. Fabricius, Morch has even fonned a genus l^roctaporia 

 (Rink. Gronland. I, 1857. Tillag. 4, p. 78), that must be cancelled, too. 



* The short statements of Lebeit about form and color of the animal 

 examined by liini can .scarcely entirely probibit the idcntificatinn of it with 

 the species described by Alder and Hancock. The figures of the (tongue! 

 teetli given by Lebert, rough as they are, suffice, on the other hand, to 

 secure the identilicalion with the D. subquadrata, or at least with a nearly 

 related species. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Of this species I have had a lot of specimens for examination, all 

 preserved in spirits; partly (two) from the neighborhood of Bergen 

 (Norway), kindly sent by Mr. Friele, partly (one) from the Frith of 

 Kiel, sent by Prof. Moebius ; but particularly (seventeen) from the 

 coast of Denmark (Striib, lille Bait.) 



The individuals varied much in color. The variability of the color 

 is noted by Alder and Hancock. They were whitish, or whitish sprinkled 

 with brownish, or dark (bluish) gray, or yellowish, or brownish, or 

 reddish-brown on the back, with whitish or yellowish sides and foot. 

 The length reaching 12.0 mm., by a breadth of 8.0 and a height of 

 5.0 mm. ; the foot then about 4.0 mm. broad, the branchial leaves 

 reaching to the height of about 1.0 mm. 



The back covered all over with the soft, slender, conical and pointed, 

 erect (or curved) papillae of very different sizes, most of them small ; 

 between these are larger ones ;^ some of the largest divided into two 

 or three points, and some of them connate and forming small crests, 

 divided above into two or three points. The margins of the sheaths 

 of the rhinophoria rather prominent, divided into several (six to eight) 

 smaller and larger pointed lobes ; the club of the rhinophoria with about 

 twelve to twenty leaves.^ The branchia, in both Norwegian specimens, 

 with eight tripinnate leaves, otherwise with seven to nine (as men- 

 tioned by Meyer and Moebius). The anal papilla low, with several 

 papillula? and a star-shaped aperture ; on a low crest, issuing from its 

 posterior, is a strong papilla. The head and the tentacles (Plate X, 

 fig. 145) as figured by Alder and Hancock (1. c, Plate 15, tig. 1). 

 The anterior margin of the foot with a fine transverse furrow (Plate X, 

 fig. 14a). The genital opening is a longitudinal slit (Plate XI, fig. 2). 



The peritoneum was mostly of reddish-brown color. 



The central nervous system showed^ the cerebral ganglia rounded- 

 triangular, not much flattened, a little larger than the more rounded 

 visceral, which lie behind and on the outside of them and show a slight 

 notch in the outside ; on the inferior side of the visceral ganglia the 

 pedal ones are set nearly perpendicular on the latter, connected by the 



* Alder and IlanGock, also Meyer and Moebius give eighteen to twenty 

 leaves. Cf. the figures 7-8 of Meyer and Moebius. 



* Collirigwood (Ann. Mag. N. H., 3 ser. vi, 1859, p. 463) remarks that it 

 " when not in motion; bears a great resemblance to a miniature hedgehog." 



^ The representation of the system given by Hancock and Embleton (On 

 the anatomy of Doris, Philos. Transact. MDCCCLII, Plate 17, f. 8) is not 

 very like nature. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILAUELPIII A. 93 



three distinct commissures, which are nearly as long as the diameter 

 of the ganglia. From the outer part of the right visceral ganglion 

 issues a nerve nearly as long as the transverse diameter of the w hole 

 central nervous system and swelling to a rather large ganglion (gangl. 

 penis) at the root of the penis ; this ganglion contains only rather 

 small cells and gives off three or four strong and several thinner nerves 

 (Plate X, fig, 15). The part of the brain which gives off the nervus 

 opticus, simulates a ganglion. The proximal ganglia olfacto'-ia bulbi- 

 form, somewhat smaller than the buccal ganglia, but much larger than 

 the distal ganglia olfactoria ; the buccal ganglia flattened, rounded, con- 

 nected by a rather short commissure ; the ganglia gastro-a-sophagalia 

 rounded, having about one-fifth of the size of the last, containing one 

 very large cell and a few smaller. 



The eyes with black pigment and yellowish lens. The otocysts 

 lying at the hinder part of the cerebral ganolia, as large as the eyes ; 

 with numerous small otokonia, which in the specimens from Kiel, 

 were not much calcified. No trace of spicula in the leaves or other 

 parts of the rhinophoria. The spicula of the skin were, so to speak, 

 limited to the margins of the mantle and of the foot ; in the last they 

 were chiefly arranged perpendicularly or obliquely against the margin, 

 except that in the foremost and hinder part of the sole some few spic- 

 ula were seen scattered. 



The amount of spicula in the skin seems to vary notably in the 

 Acanthodoris pilosa, as seems to be the case in general in different 

 forms of Dorididce, especially, as far as hitherto known, in the Poly- 

 ceratidce {Polycera, Ancula). (Cf. Meyer and Moebius, Fauna der 

 Kieler Bucht, I, 1865, pp. 52, 60.) Frey and Leuckart (Beitr. zur 

 Kenntn. wirbellose Thiere, 1847, p. 145 i described a very regular 

 position of the spicula, but not, as it seems, in accordance with nature. 



In the margin of the mantle the spicula were arranged as figured by 

 Alder and Ilanc, 1. c, Part VII, PI. 48, supplem. fig. 1, only more con- 

 centrically at the transition from the margin to the side of the body ; a 

 narrow belt of spicula crossed the back before the region of the gill. 

 Some spicula wt-re also seen in the tentacles. Tiid spicula reached a 

 notable length (at least 0.6 mm."*, in old individuals they were more 

 calcified than in younger ones. The skin was filled with unicellular 

 glands, especially in the dorsal papillae' 



The mouth-tube was wide and strong, about 1.5 mm. long; the 

 bulbus pharyngeus in the largest individuals about 2.75 mm. long, by 



' Cf. the (not very good) fig. 6 by Meyer and Moebius. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP ' [1880. 



a breadth of '2.0 and a height of about 3.0 mm. ; th« sheatl) of the 

 radiila projecting backward nearly 1.0 mm. ; the lip-disk sometimes 

 surrounded by a ring of bhick pigment. The armature of tlie lip- 

 disk entirely as sliown (PI. XII, ligs. 1-4, 10-11) by nie in tlie form 

 from the Pacific, also the crop (PI, XIII, fig. 2) of the bulbus.' 

 The tongue in the eight specimens examined was provided with live, 

 seven, eight, nine rows of plates, farther backwards also sixteen to 

 twenty developed, and three younger rows ; the total number amount- 

 ing thus to from twenty-seven to thirty. ^ The large lateral teeth'' yellow 

 in the body, especially in the anterior-inferior part, with commonly five 

 to eight denticles on the inside of the hook ; sometimes, especially in 

 the younger plates, the number of denticles rose from eleven to fifteen, 

 sometimes the three to four outermost denticles were much larger than 

 the rest, sometimes the denticulation was quite irregular ; the height 

 of this plate reached 0.4 mm. The outer plates (PI. XI, fig. 1) com- 

 monly four to six, seldom seven to eight ; in a series of four on the 

 hinder part of the tongue, the outermost measured about 0.05, the next 

 0.09, 0.11, 0.125 mm.; they were quite colorless, compressed, with 

 the upper side flattened, and rather erect. 



The salivary glands as in the purple-colored form from the Pacific. 

 No constant dilatation of the middle of the oesophagus (as figured, 

 PI. I, f. 12y, by Alder and Hancock), but a strong, particular one at 

 the root as figured (1. c. PI. I, f. 12^^ by Alder and Hancock and by 

 me (Gatt. nordischer Doriden, 1. c. Taf. XIX, fig. lie). The 

 stomach as in the Pacific form ; the intestine sometimes dilated in its 

 first part, sometimes absolutely of the same caliber as the rest, and 

 neither externally nor internally different from it; a little bag 

 (biliary sac) which has been noticed by Alder and Hancock (1. c. PL 

 I, fig. I2k), opening into the right side of this part of the intestine. 

 The posterior visceral mass (liver) flattened and excavated on the 

 anterior- inferior right half. The sanguineous gland whitish, convexo- 

 concave, short and irregularly kidney-formed, with the excavation 



' The first specimens of the Northern Atlantic left at my disposition 

 being too small and too few for a thorough exammatioii, I am obliged to 

 refer to my examination given berewitli of the foi-m from the Pacific. Cf. 

 moreover my figures in "Gatt. nord. Doriden," 1. c. PI. XIX, figs. 10, 11. 

 The crop is rather well figured by Alder and Hanc. (1. c. PI. I, f, 12c). 



* According to Meyer and Moebius, the number of plates ("of the 

 radula") is thirty-one, to Alder and Hancock, twenty-seven. 



* Cf. my Gattungen nordischer Doriden, 1 c. Taf. XIX, fig. 12. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 95 



forwards, transversely situated, with a largest diameter of 3.0 mm. 

 The renal chamber and the syrinx as in the form from the Pacific. 



The hermaphroditic gland as in this last variety, its white color con- 

 trasting with the hue of the liver. The anterior genital mass of short 

 pyramidal form, with tlie point outwards, about 4.75 mm. long, the 

 breadth and the height a little less. Tlie ampulla of the hermaphro- 

 ditic gland yellowish-white, forming a single ansa, about 4.0 mm. long, 

 by a diameter of 0.75 mm. lying on the upper part of the back of the 

 mucous gland. The spermatoduct yellowish, about 15-0 mm. long, 

 constricted a little above the middle of its length ; strong, sloping into 

 the penis, which is about 1.0 mm. long. The armature of the penis 

 entirely as in the form from the Pacific, continued backwards in the 

 interior of the spermatoduct for a length of 6.0 mm. ; the hooks 

 rising to the height of about 0.035 mm., nearly colorless.' The sper- 

 malotheca (PL XIII, fig. 5a) spherical, of a diameter of about 2 

 mm., greenish or whitish ; the spermatocysta (fig. 56) much smaller, 

 pyriform, yellowish ; both filled with sperma The chief duct (the 

 vagina, fig. Udd) very long, with several (four) longitudinal folds, which 

 are folded again transversely ; the structure seemed to resemble en- 

 tirely the form from the Pacific ; in the cavity was more or less sperma. 

 The mucous gland yellow and yellowish-white ; the fold of the duct 

 with brownish-gray points, but no black pigment on the lower part of 

 the vagina or penis. 



One specimen of this typical form, with '• brown mantle," and in 

 all respects agreeing with the Atlantic, was dredged by Dall at Kyska. 

 in June, 1873, on rocky bottom at the depth of ten fathoms. 



An individual of a (in living state) " yellowish-white " variety was 

 dredged by Dall in PopofF Strait (Shumagin Islands), on rocky bot- 

 tom at a depth of six fathoms. 



The animal preserved in spirits was 10.0 mm. long, by a breadth of 

 CO and a height of 4.5 mm. ; the rhinophoria 1.5 mm. high, the cill 

 1.0 mm,, the foot 3.0 mm. broad. The color yellowish-white. In the 

 club of the rhinophoria about thirty leaves ; nine branchial leaves ; 

 the anal papilla with three small protuberances ; the renal pore very 

 distinct on the right side. The genital opening very wide ; the bul- 

 bus pharyngeus 2.0 mm. long ; the tongue with seven rows of plates, 

 the total number of these twenty-six (1(5 + 3); five external 



' The armature of the penis has been first seen by H. Frielo and G. 

 A.rniauer Ilanseu > Bi(h-. til Kundsk. om de Noi-ske Nudibranchiar. Christi- 

 ania, Yitlsk..Selsk. Foih., liiT."), extras, p. 4j, 




IH» PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



plates. The diverticle of the oesophagus nearly as large as the true 

 bulbus. The spermatoduct and tlie penis as usual, also the vagina ; 

 the spermatotheca of 1.0 mm. largest diameter. No trace of pig- 

 ment on the vagina or penis, and the peritoneum was colorless. 



Another variety of the species, with "brown mantle and yellowish- 

 white papilhv," was dredged by Dall, in Yukon Harbor (Shumagins), 

 in August, 18Y4, on sand and stones, at a depth of six to twenty 

 fathoms. 



The individual preserved in spirits was 9.0 mm. long, by a breadth 

 of 6.5 mm., and a height of 4.5 mm. ; the breadth of the foot 4.0 mm., 

 the height of the gill 1.5 mm. The back of the animal densely brown- 

 dotted, especially the circumference of the gill and the free area left 

 in the middle of the gill ; the dorsal papilhe all whitish ; the stalk of 

 the rhinophoria and the inferior part of the club densely dotted with 

 brown, also, in a somewhat slighter degree, the outside of the branchial 

 leaves. The under side of the mantle and the upper side of the margin 

 of the foot and, in a slighter degree, the sides of the body and the sole 

 of the foot dotted with an enormous quantity of brownish-gray points. 

 The form as usual. The gill with nine leaves, of which the two pos- 

 terior were much smaller than the others. 



The central nervous system as usual ; the olocysts very conspicuous 

 under the magnifier as chalk-white points. The mouth-tube 2.0 mm. 

 long. The bulbus pharyngeus 2.0 mm. long ; the sheath of the radula 

 projecting 2.0 mm., bent downwards. The armature of the lip-disk 

 ( PI. XII, fig. 10, 11) very like that of the var. albescens (cf. PI. XIII, 

 fig. 4). The buccal crop as usual. The tongue with nine rows of 

 plates; the total number of rows, twenty-five (1.3^-3). The large 

 lateral plates as usual ; the d^nticulations rather long and somewhat 

 irregular. The number of the external plates (fig. 12) reaching to six. 



The salivary glands, the oesophagus with its diverticle, the pyloric 

 part of the intestine with its bag (biliary sac), and the liver, as usual. 

 The sanguineous gland rather large, covering, besides the central 

 nervous system, the whole of the bulbus pharyngeus. 



In the lobes of the hermaphroditic gland, masses of zojsperms. The 

 anterior genital mass of the usual form ; the ampulla of the herma- 

 phroditic duct somewhat larger. The spermatoduct as usual ; so, too, 

 the penis, with its armature ; the length of the glans about 0.5 mm. 

 The spermatotheca and the spermatocjsta as usual; also the chief 

 duct (vagina), the cavity of the last filled with sperma. The mucous 

 gland yellowish-white and in the centre (albuminous gland) brownish- 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



jellow. Very scanty black pigment on the inferior part of the vagina 

 and of tlie penis ; the peritoneum of the back, on the contrary, very 

 dark brown. 



2. Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. Miiller), var. albescens, PI. X, fig. 14, 15 : PI. XT, tig. 2 ; 

 PI. XII, fig. 13-16. 



Color flavescente-albidus. 



Hamus dentium (lingua?) edentulus vel parce denticulatus. 



Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. (Aleutian Islands). 



Two rather large specimens of this variety have been dredged by 

 Dall, in June and July, 1873, at Kyska Harbor (Aleutiutia ", on sand 

 or on rocky bottom, at a depth of nine to fourteen fathoms. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal was "yellowish- 

 white ; " that of the specimens preserved in spirits was so, too, but 

 very likely much more whitish. The length was 16.0 or 17.0 mm., 

 by a breadth of 6.5 to 8.0 mm., and a height of 6.5 mm. ; the height 

 of the rhinophoria 2.5 to 3.0 mm., of the gill 3.0 to 4.0 mm. ; the 

 breadth of the foot 5 or 6.0 mm., the length of the genital opening 

 2.0 or 3.0 mm. The form as in the typical D. pilosa; the rhinophoria 

 showed about twenty-five broad leaves in the club ; there were nine 

 branchial leaves ; the anal papilla very low ; the renal pore rather large. 



The central nervous system as previously described. The distal 

 olfactory ganglion small; a large (diameter, 0.4 mm.) ganglion penis 

 (fig. 15 K The eyes with rich, coal-black pigment; the otocysts visible 

 under a lens as chalk-white points, with about one hundred and fifty 

 otokonia. 



The bulbus pharyngeus 3.5 mm. long, with the sheath of the radula 

 projecting 1.3 to 1.5 mm.; the height of the bulbus, with the crop, 

 4.0 to 4.5 mm., its breadth 2.5 to 3.0 mm. 



The older elements of the lip-plate (PI. XII, figs- 13, 14) agreeing 

 in form with those of the typical species, but oftener showing a granu- 

 lated interior; the said elements reaching a length of about 0.04 mm. 

 The diameter of the disk and mouth about 3.0 mm. The breadth of 

 either half of the disk 0.66 mm. 



The tongue showed nine or ten rows of teeth ; the whole number of 

 rows, twenty-nine (16 or 17-} 3). The large lateral teeth were as in the 

 typical species, reaching 0.65 mm. in height (I'l. XII, fig. 15, 16), 

 without or with only a very slight denticulation of the hook (fig. 15). 

 The number of the outer teeth, three to five.' 



' Cf. my Gatt. nordisclicr Doritlen, 1. c, 'l"af. xix, fig. 13. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The salivary glands deeply imbedded in (he cavity for the oesophagus 

 at the fore-end of the liver. Tlie oesophagus with its rather hirge 

 (1.5 mm. long) diverticle, the stomach, the intestine with its little 

 (^1.0 mm. long bag, as above. The liver 7,0 to 9.0 nun. long, 5.0 to 6.0 

 mm. broad, 5.0 to 6.25 mm. high, of yellowish-gray color. The san- 

 guineous gland of irregular, oval form, of a largest diameter of 4.0 

 mm., by a thickness of 1.0 mm., and of grayish color. The renal syrinx 

 about 0.75 mm. long. 



The anterior genital mass 6.0 or 7.0 mm. long, 4.0 to 6.0 mm. higli, 

 and 3.0 or 4.0 mm. thick. Tlie ampulla as usual ; also the (about 

 40.0 mm. long) spermatoduct and the (nearly 2.0 mm. long^ penis, 

 with its armature ; the hooks often set in pairs. The spermatotheca 

 (diameter, 4.0 mm.) and the spermatocysta (diameter, 1.5 mm.) as 

 above; the chief duct, with the vagina (about 23.0 mm. long, by a 

 diameter of 0.4 to 1.0 mm. , as usual, and also its internal cellular 

 clothing (PI. X, fig. 13) ; the yellow nucleoli somewhat brighter; the 

 cavity nearly filled with sperma. The mucous gland as usual. No 

 black pigment on the inferior part of the vagina or on the penis. 



3. Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. Miillcr), \sir. purpurea, PI. XII, fig. 1-9. 



(^olor e purpureo brunneus et flavescente-albidus. 

 Habitat. Oceanum Pacificum septentrion. Insuhe Aleutians^ (Una- 

 lashka). 



Only two specimens of this species were dredged by Dall, in Sep- 

 tember, 1874, on mud and stones, at a depth of about sixty fathoms. 



The color of the living animal was, according to Dall, '• purple-brown 

 and yellowish- white." The length of the animals preserved in spirits 

 was 24.0 or 25.0 mm., by a breadth of 9.0 or 10.0 mm., and a height 

 of 7.5 mm.; the foot 6.0 mm. broad; the height of the rhinophoria 

 about 3.0 mm., of the branchial leaves 2.3 mm. The color of the 

 back reddish-brown ; the stalk of the rhinophoria brownish, the club 

 yellowish ; the branchial leaves yellowish-white, the last brownish at 

 the rhachis ; the under side of the mantle margin, with the sides of 

 the body, the head and the foot, yellowish-white, dotted with brownish- 

 gray all over, the color much more scanty on the sides of the foot and 

 still more so on the head and on the sole of the foot. 



•The form was somewhat elongate. The back covered all over with 

 pointed, rather (0.75 mm ) high, digitiform, soft papilUn and with inter 

 mixed smaller ones. The margin of the rhinophor-holes with several 

 pointed, projecting, digitiform processes ; the stout club of the rhino- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPUIA. 99 



plioriii with about twenty leaves. The branchial leaves stron^r, ( in both 

 individuals) eight in number, the two hindcrmost separated by a narrow 

 crest, which rises into a larger papilla; before this the anal papilla, 

 covered with some papilla;, at its right side is the r^nal pore ; on the 

 space before it were several smaller papilla;. The under side of the 

 free margin of the mantle (about 2.0 mm. broad) smooth. The head 

 large, the tentacles short. The genital opening a rather large, cres- 

 cenlic orifice. The foot rounded behind. 



The peritoneum was richly dotted on the back with brownish-red. 



The central nervous system nearly quite as in Ac. pilona; the 

 proximal olfactory ganglia of oval form, true distal ones could not be 

 detected in the root of the rhinophoria, but only a fusiform swelling of 

 the nerve, with scattered nervous cells. The subcerebral and pedal 

 commissures connected, the visceral isolated. The buccal ganglia 

 larger than the olfactory, of oval form, connected by a commissure 

 nearly as long as each ganglion ; the gastro a-sophageal ganglia de- 

 veloped on the side of the nerve, which is a little longer than the 

 ganglion, and in size about one-fifth of the former ; the contents one 

 very large cell, three or four smaller and several <juite small ones. 

 On the upper part of the penis the large ganglion genitale, of about 

 the diameter of 0.3 mm., rounded, partly covered with black pigment 

 consisting of only rather small cells ; in the first parts of the nerves 

 given off from the ganglion, one or two rows of nervous cells of the 

 same kind as in the ganglion. 



The eyes with black pigment, yellow lens; the optic nerve rather 

 long. As chalk-white points the otocysts were situated on the iiinder 

 part of the cerebral ganglia, where they touched the pedal ones ; they 

 were filled with solid, yellowish otokonia of about the usual form and 

 size, but, in both respects, rather irregular. In the leaves of the 

 rhinophoria no spicula. In the margin of the mantle and of the foot 

 almost no spicula at all, but everywhere in the skin, especially on the 

 back and the papilla, were an enormous quantity of large and small 

 glandular openings. In the interstitial connective tissue were hardly 

 any calcified cells at all. 



The mouth-tube was about 2.;3 mm. long, wide, with a glandular bell 

 on the outside, not closed below ; on the inside lined with a yellowish 

 cuticula. The bulbus pharyngeus strong, about 4.0 mm. lung, and 

 the sheath of the radula projecting nearly 1 mm. from the posterior 

 part of the under side, directed straight backwards or downwards ; the 

 height (through the buccal crop) 4.0 mm., the breadth 2.;') nun. The 




100 PROCEEDlNaS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



buccal crop making nearly half of the whole bulbus, and of the usual 

 form : tlie walls very thick ; the compressed and rather small cavity 

 communicating through a long cleft with the anterior half of the 

 small buccal cavity. The lip-disk (iig. 1) of rounded contour, clothed 

 throughout its whole breadth (on each side to about 0.5 mm.) with the 

 light, horn-yellow colored armature ; the lowest part of this, as usual 

 in the Aeon (Jiodoi'ides, injured or wanting; the breadth of the belt 

 decreasing towards the upper end, where it is interrupted in the middle 

 line, also at the lower end. The armature (fig. 2bb, 3/>, 4 ) composed 

 of books, whose points are directed forwards (towards the opening of 

 the mouth\ nearly like, but still differing a little from those in the 

 typical Ac. piloHa, reaching the height of about 0.04 mm., yellowish, 

 with rounded, bifid or irregularly cleft points. The lancet-shaped 

 (fig. la, 2a, Sa) blades at the inferior angle of the mouth as usual. 

 The tongue with nine or ten series of plates, farther backwards 

 thirteen to fifteen developed and three undeveloped series ; the total 

 number in this way, twenty-five to twenty-eight. The large lateral 

 plates relatively larger than in the Ac. pilosa, and (fig. 5, (5) less 

 thick in the anterior-inferior part of the body, with relatively larger 

 hook ; the denticulation of this last much weaker and much more 

 irregular ; in one specimen generally two to four denticles, sometimes 

 only a few very insignificant ones or none at all (fig. 6) ; and this was 

 the case with the other specimen, in which only some few plates showed 

 two small denticles.' The outer lateral plates as in the typical form, 

 scarcely more than from four to six. 



The salivary glands whitish, rather strong at their short first part, 

 in the rest of their length thin (fig. 7), accompanying the oesophagus 

 to the cardia ; the duct rather short (fig. 7a). 



The oesophagus forming a little crop,^ with thin walls and longitu- 

 dinal folds on the inside ; in the rest of its length rather thin. The 

 stomach rather small, with the usual biliary apertures. The intestine 

 (fig. 8a) somewhat inflated in its first part, with many rathL^r strong 

 folds and one particularly thick; a little over the poiiit» where it 

 appears on the surface of the visceral mass, on the riglit side, a little, 

 scarcely pedunculated bag (fig. 86), of the length of 1.0 to 1.25 mm., 

 with fine, longitudinal folds ; the rest of the intestine (fig. 8c) some- 

 what narrower; the total length of the intestine about 12.0 to 13.0 



' Although very like the plates of the Atlantic form, they still bore a 

 somewhat peculiar aspect. 

 ^ Cf. my Gattungen nordischcr Doriden, 1. c, Taf. xix, fig. 14. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



mm., by a diameter of 1.0 to 1.5 mm. The contends of the .stomach 

 and of the intestine indeterminable animal matter, mixed with an 

 enormous quantity of different and partly very handsome forms of 

 Diatomacece, with some polyllialamia and some small copepoda, and 

 fragments of the same. 



The liver about 9-9.5 mm. long by a breadth (at the forepart) of 

 6.5-5.5 and a height of 6.25-6.0 mm. ; the posterior half somewhat 

 pointed, the anterior notably flattened and excavated on the riglit side ; 

 around the cardia the liver appeared naked (not covered by the her- 

 maphroditic gland) of (greenish) gray color, in sections it was yel- 

 lowish. 



The ramifications of the aorta nearly as in the typical DorididcB,^ 

 the root of the posterior aorta still longer and the Art. syrinyis renalis 

 stronger and more ramified. The sanguineous gland yellowish-white, 

 rather flattened, of irregular triangular form, lobulated, about 3.5 mm. 

 long. 



The renal chamber large ; the yellowish-white renal syrinx about 

 0.75 mm. long, its tube somewhat more than twice as long, imme- 

 diately continuous with the tube on the floor of the renal chamber. 



The hermaphroditic gland easily distinguishable from the liver 

 through its more whitish color; the secondary (ovigerous) lobes rather 

 small ; in the lobes zo'Jsperms and large ougene cells. The anterior 

 genital mass of plano-convex heart-shape with the point down and 

 backwards; the length about 5.0 mm. by a breadth of 4.0 and a height 

 of 5.0 min. The ampulla of the very thin and white hermaphroditic 

 duct resting on the upper posterior part of the mucous gland, yellow, 

 short and thick (4.0 mm. long by a diameter of about 1.25 mm. form- 

 ing u simple ansa. The vas deferens yellowish, strong, resting upon 

 the upper side of the genital mass with its large coils and freely de- 

 scending before its anterior margin to the penis, constricted about the 

 (fig. 9c) middle of its total length (30.0-35.0 mm.). The penis forming 

 the end of the spermatoduct somewhat thicker, about 2.0 mm. long, 

 somewhat curved ; its lower part hollow, the rest solid and prominent 

 in the cavity of the former as a cylindrical glans of the length of about 

 G mm. The glans with about ten series of yellowish hooks, which 

 from a rather large basis raised to the height of about 0.04 mm. ; the 

 continuation of the armature reaching through the interior of the glans 

 and of the spermatoduct nearly up to the stricture of the last, but the 



» Cf. my Malacolog. Unters. (Semper, Philipp.) Tab. XLVIII, fis- 11. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



number of scries liere smaller, about five to eight. The spermatotheca 

 whitish, forming an oval bag of 3.0 mm, largest diameter ; the sperma- 

 tocysta yellowish, of 1.0-1.5 mm. largest diameter, the ducts as in the 

 typical Ac. pifosa The chief duct, too, very (about 25.0 mm.) long, 

 rolled up in many coils, partly spiral, the diameter varying between about 

 3 and O.T") mm. ; the last fourth of the duct (vagina) with scattered 

 black pigment, somewhat narrower and with a rather strong retractor 

 muscle at its commencement ; the interior of this duct with some few 

 strong longitudinal folds, clothed with a cuticula, and under the same a 

 very line layer of round and angulated cells with a large round or oval 

 nucleus of the diameter of about 0.4 mm. and a rather large yellow 

 nucleolus (PI. X, fig, 13). In the cavity of the vagina more or less 

 sperraa.^ The mucous gland yellowish and white ; the central mass 

 (albuminous gland) yellow ; the duct with scattered black pigment on 

 the outside (also on the outside of the lower part of the penis), with 

 the usual fold. The vestibulura genitale with black pigment on the 

 folds, the same pigment was seen in the lowest part of the cavity of 

 the penis and of the vagina and on the folds of the duct of the mucous 

 gland. 



A very similar animal, but " with brown mantle,*' was dredged by 

 Dall in Kyska Harbor (Aleutiansj in July, 1873, on sand, at a depth 

 of nine to fourteen fathoms. 



It was of large size ; the length 21.0 mm., by a breadth of 11.0 and 

 a height of 9.0 mm. ; the margin of the mantle 2.0 mm. broad, the foot 

 6.0 mm. broad ; the height of the rhinophoria and of the gill 3 mm. ; 

 the genital aperture 3.0 mm. broad. The color dirty brown on the 

 upper side ; the rhinophoria and the branchial leaves yellowish, dotted 

 with grayish, especially on the stalk of the rhinophoria ; the sole of 

 the foot yellowish, the under side of the animal whitish ; the under 

 side everywhere with an enormous quantity of gray and black dots. 

 The number of branchial leaves nine. 



The peritoneum black-brown ; the central nervous system, eyes, 

 otocysts, as previously described. The bulbus pharyngeus of the 

 length of 4. J) mm. by a breadth of 3.0 and a height (with the crop) 

 of 4"75 mm. ; the sheath of the radula projecting 1.25 mm. ; the crop 

 alone of the height of 2.3 mm. and 3.25 mm. broad. The lip-disk as 

 above, the thickenings in the lowest part of the mouth 1.2 mm. long, 

 of which nearly half freely projected. On the tongue nine rows of 



' The length of the si>crmatoduct and the duct of the spermatotheca 

 i vagina) was much moie considerable than in the typical form. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



plates, farther backwards eighteen developed and three younger row?, 

 the total number thirty ; the plates denticulated as previously men- 

 tioned, the height of the large plates rising to 0.7 mm. ; the number 

 of external plates four to five. The oesophageal diverticle of a largest 

 diameter of about 3.0 mm. The pars pylorica of the intestine of about 

 4.5 mm. length, with higher folds than in the rest of the intestine, which 

 had a length of about 15.0 mm. ; the bag at the first part of the intes- 

 tine 1.5 mm. long. The liver 12.0 mm. long by a breadth of 8.0 and a 

 height of 0.0 mm. The sanguineous glands whitish, 5.0 mm. long by 

 a breadth of 6.0 mm. and 2.0 mm. thick, convexo-concave, the fore-end 

 flattened (by the buccal crop), the hinder end with two transverse fur- 

 rows (produced by two coils of the spermatoduct ; the anterior genital 

 mass 8.0 mm. long by a breadth of 3.5 and a height of 7.5 mm. The 

 ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct 5.0 mm. long, whitish. The coils 

 of the spermatoduct and of the vagina in this individual covering the 

 upper side of the mucous gland, and ascending to the back between 

 the pharyngeal bulbus and the liver ; a coil of the former embraced 

 the sheath of the radula. The first part of the spermatoduct 12.0 mm. 

 long, the last of the length of about 25.0 mm ; the penis about 3.5 mm. 

 long, the armature as usual. The spermatotheca nearly spherical, of 

 3.5 mm. diameter ; the spermatocysta yellowish, round, with a diameter 

 of 1.5 mm.; the chief duct (vagina) 33.0 mm. long with a general 

 diameter of 1.2 mm. ; the structure of the wall as above ; the last, nar- 

 rower part (from the m. retractor downwards), 5.0 mm. long. 1 he 

 vestibulum, as well as the inferior part of the vagina and of the penis, 

 with very scanty black pigment. 



4. Acanthodoris caerulesoens, Bgh., n. sp. Plate XIII, fig. 6-7; Plate XIV, fig. 16. 



Color paginjE superioris corporis caerulescens. 



Dentes radulai hamo per totam fere longitudinem denticulato. 



Ilab. Mare Beringianum (Nunivak Island). 



One specimen of this species was found by Dall at the north end of 

 Nunivak Island, Bering Sea, in July, 1874, on stony bottom, at the 

 depth of eight fathoms. 



According to Dall, the color of the living animal was bluish. The 

 animal preserved in alcohol had the length of 14.0 mm. by a height of 

 5.0 and a breadth of 8.0 mm. ; the length of the foot was 12.5 mm. by 

 a breadth of 6.5 mm. ; the height of the rhinophoria 2.0, of the bran- 

 chial leaves 1.5 mm. The color uniformly yellowish-white, with the 

 back of a slightly bluish hue. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The form elongate-oval. The back covered all over with irregular 

 (the greatest height reaching; about 1.5 mm.), conical, rather soft and 

 flexible papilhv, in general larger than in the typical species. The 

 margin of tlie rhinophor-holes thin, somewhat prominent, with two 

 anterior strong tubercles and a posterior much smaller one ; the stalk 

 of the club rather low, the latter with about twenty-five to thirty leaves. 

 The branchia consisting of nine to ten leaves, the adjacent border set 

 with several strong tubercles ; the branchial leaves quite isolated at 

 their base, apparently simply pinnate. The anus prominent, before 

 the same a small tubercle, behind it a much larger one. The margin 

 of the myntle rather thin, on the upper side covered with a mass of 

 smaller and larger papilhv and tubercles, the under side smooth. The 

 head broad, flat, with prominent rounded, flattened tentacula. The 

 foot broad, rounded behind. 



The central nervous system as in the typical species ; the buccal 

 ganglia rounded, the commissure between them very short. The eyes 

 with black pigment and yellow lens. The otocysts a little smaller 

 than the eyes, with numerous otokonia of the usual form, and reaching 

 a length of 0.03 mm. The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula ; 

 in the axes of the organs large, molecularly calcified cells and groups 

 of smaller calcified cells. In the papilte of the skin of the back were 

 no spicula at all, on their surface the usual large quantity of glandular 

 cells ; in the skin beneath the papilte cells and groups of cells as in the 

 case of the rhinophoria. 



The mouth-tube rather wide, with strong cuticula. The bulbus 

 pharyngeus formed apparently as in the typical species ; the lip-plate 

 composed of many rows of rather low (the height rising to about 

 0.02 mm.), very (fig. 6) finely striated columns. The tongue with ten 

 rows of teeth ; further back, twenty-six developed and three undevel- 

 oped rows ; the total number thus thirty-nine. The lateral plates 

 large, yellow, of usual form, with a series of denticles along nearly 

 the whole of the inner margin of the hook (fig. 16a). The external 

 plates colorless, eight in number; somewhat depressed (fig. 7, 16), 

 obliquely rising from the cuticula of the tongue (fig. 7), of nearly equal 

 size excepting the outermost (fig. 1Gb), which is much smaller. 



The salivary glands seemed of the usual form. The oesophagus and 

 the stomach as usual. The intestine issuing from the liver at the 

 middle of its length on the left side, rather short. The liver of the 

 length of about 9.0 mm. by a breadth and a height of about 4.2 mm. : 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPJII A. 105 



the right anterior half excavated (on account of the anterior genita 

 mass) ; the color brownisli-gray. 



Tlie heart and the sanguineous gland as usual, also the renal cham- 

 ber and the renal syrinx. 



Tl<e hermaphroditic gland by its yellowish color contrasting with 

 the liver, clothing the under side, part of the left side, and its right 

 anterior half. The anterior genital mass rather compressed, about 

 H.O mm. long by a breadth of 2.0 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphro- 

 ditic duct rather short, sausage-shaped, about 2.3 mm. long, curved 

 and whitish. The larger part of the penis was gone, but hooks were 

 seen in the remaining part as in the typical species. The sperma 

 totheca rather large, bag-shaped, about 3.5 mm. long ; the vagina 

 rather wide, about 10.0 mm. long. The mucous gland white, and the 

 albuminous gland yellowish-white.' 



This species seems very distinct from the typical one, by its color 

 and by the different form of denticulation of the large plates of the 

 tongue. 



POLYCERA-TID^. 



This large family, so rich in generic forms, was found represented 

 in the northern Pacific only by two generic types, Polycera and 

 Triopha. 



POLYCERA, Cuvier. 



Polycera. Cuvier, (1812?). Regne-anim., 1817, ii, p. 390.' Regn«-anim., 



ed. 3, iii, p. 53. 

 Themuto, Oken, Lehrb. der Zool., 1815, p. 278. 

 Cufaa, Leach, Moll. Britann. Synopsis, 1852, p. 21. 

 Polycera C, Aid. and Hanc, Observ. on the genus Polycera, Ami. Mag. 



of Nat. Hist., vi, 1841. p. 337-;i42, Pi. IX. 

 Limacia, O. Fr. Miiller, i^ol. Dan., i, 1781, p. 65-68.' 

 Phanerobranchus, A. Fredol (Moquin-Tandou), Le monde de la mer, 1864, 



PI. xii, figs. 1, 2. 



' Tlie anterior genital mass was so hardened and altered, that the nature 

 of its dill'ereut compouonts could not be determined with certainty. 



* According to a note of Ilermannsen, under the genus Tfiemisto, Oken, 

 (Ind. Gen. Malacoz. primordia, ii, 1849, p. 572), the genus Polycera was 

 establislied by Cuvier, 1812, [but this is probably a typographical error, 

 since, under the genus Polycera itself, ho iudicates only the year 1817— 

 Dall,] (of., 1. c., p. 314). 



' Limacia, Ilartm., Neue Alpina, i, 1821, p. 208 (Arion, Fer.). 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Limbus frontalis digitatus vel tuberculatus. Branchia 5-7-foliata. 

 Appendices dorsales i extrabranchiales) 1-3. Tentacula brevia, lobi- 

 tbrmia. 



Lamella^ mandibulares laterales fortes, sat applanata\ Radula 

 rbachide nuda ; pleuris dentibus lateralibus hamatis duobus (margine 

 liBvi ^, interno niinore, externo majore, et dentibus externus 4-8. 



Prostata magna ; pleuris ut in omnibus Polyceratis. 



The genus Polycera was established by Cuvier (1812 ?), to receive 

 the Doris quadrilineata of Midler and (in 1830) allied forms ; a few 

 years afterwards (1815), and not knowing the genus of Cuvier, Oken 

 formed his Themisto, nearly identical with the Polycera of Cuvier.* 

 The Gufsea of Leach (1852), is entirely congeneric with the genera 

 of Cuvier and Oken, as is also very likely the Phanerobranchus of 

 A. Fn dol (Moquin-Tandon). The Limacia of 0. Fr. Midler (1781), 

 contains a whole series of different Nudihranchiata, among them the 

 D. quadrilineata, and, as first-named species, the D. verrucosa; the 

 name cannot therefore be employed here. 



Although, through Cuvier and Alder (1841), their external char- 

 acters were somewhat made known, still Polycera, like so many 

 other Nudihranclnata, remained very superficially known, until the 

 laro-e monograph of Alder and Hancock,' that first really unveiled 

 their external and internal structure, although Frey and Leuckart^ 

 had given some anatomical notices of these animals. Lately more 

 liffht has been spread over the northern species of the group, through 

 the investigations of Meyer and Moebius,^ and of G. O. Sars.^ 



The true Polycera shows a form of body common to the whole 

 family. The well-developed frontal margin is more or less curved in 



* A careful search has failed to find any other ground for supposing that 

 Cuvier described the genus Polycera in 1812, or at any date before 1817, so 

 that the 1812 of Hennaimsen is almost certainly merely a misprint. The 

 name Themisto, of Oken, if congeneric, should therefore take precedence. 

 — Dall. 



1 Alder and Hancock, Monogr. Brit. Nudibr. Moll., Part 2, 1846, fam. 1, 

 PI. 23 ; Part 4, 1848, fam. 1, PI. 24 ; Part 5, 1851, fam. 1, PI. 22 ; Part 6, 

 1854, fam. 1, PI. 17 (anat. !) ; Part 7, 1855, PI. 46 supplem. figs. 20, 21. 



■^ Frey and Leuckart, Beitr. zur Kenntn. wirbellose Thiere, 1847, p. 66- 

 70, taf. i, fig. 12, 13. 



2 Meyer and Moebius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, i, 1865, p. 49-57, m. 2 

 taf. und taf. iv, A, B. 



♦ G. O. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 312, 313, Tab. xiv, fig. 14-18. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



the middle, with its free margin tuberculated or digitate. The frontal 

 veil is continued in a more or less tuberculated ridge, that limits the true 

 back, and posteriorly ends in a single strong or in several smaller 

 dorsal (branchial) appendices on the outside of and behind the region 

 of the gill. The true back with longitudinal rows of more or less 

 developed connected tubercles, sometimes forming low longitudinal 

 ridges. The number of leaves in the club of the rhinophoria is not 

 large. The gill is composed of a moderate number (five to seven) of 

 leaves, which are either simply pinnate or composite (bi- or tripinnate). 

 The tentacles are small, flattened or auriculate. The jaws or man- 

 dibular plates in form somewhat recall those of the ^Eolidiidce, strong, 

 flattened, sometimes with a peculiar superior process. The rhachis of 

 the radula naked ; on the pleura- two large hook-formed lateral teeth, 

 of which the outer is much larger than the inner ; at the outside of 

 the laterals are four to eight, somewhat flattened uncina'. A large 

 prostate gives the genital apparatus a particular feature ; the arma- 

 ture of the penis is of the usual kind. 



About the biological relations of Polycera very little is known, as 

 usual among the NicdibromcJnata. The spawn of the most common 

 northern species is known, and a part of the developmental history 

 has been investigated by Ray Lankester.^ 



A small number of species have been described by different authors 

 in the course of years. Alder and Hancock (Monogr. part 7, l«5a, 

 p. 45, XVIII) established and rather well characterized two groups 

 of Polycera ; according to these authors Gray soon after (Guide I, 

 1857, p. 213) denominated these groups Polycera (typical) and Palio, 

 which perhaps might be conserved as subgenera. 



I. POLYCESA (gtricte), 



Margo limbi frontalis digitatus. Folia branchialia sirapliciter pin- 

 nata ; appendices dorsales (branchiales) singula' majores. 

 Lamellae mandibulares processu superior! alajformi. 



1. P. quadrilineata (O. F. Muller\ M. Atlanticum ; Mediterraneum. 



2. P. harrida, Hesse, Joum. de Conchyliol., 3 S., XIII, 4, 1873, p. 345. M. 



Atlanticum. 



' Ray Lankester, Contrib. to the Developm. hist, of Moll., Philos. 

 Trans., MDCCCLXXY, p. 29, PI. 10, f. 1-9. 



Meyer and Moebius have, moreover, given a figure of the shell of the 

 embrj'o of their Pol. ocellata (\. c, fig. lOj. 




108 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



^i. P. plcbeia, Lovi'n. Index Moll , 1846, p. 6.' M. Atlanticum. 



4. P. doriformis (Quatref.). Phaiu'robraiiche doriforme. Moquin-Tandon 



iineud. A. Frcdol) Le monde de la mer., 1864, PI. XII, fig. 1. M.. 

 ^Mediterraiieum. 



5. P. canteriata [(^ymivGi.) Pbam'robrancbe a chevrons. Moquin-Tandon 



(do) 1. c, pl. XII, f. 2. M. ]\IcditeiTaneum. 



11. PALIO, day. 



Marge limbi frontalis tuberculatus. Folia branchialia bi- vel tri~ 

 pinnata ; appendices dorsales (branchiales) niinores, complures. 

 Lamellie mandibulares simplices (sine processu superiorij. 



6. P. Lessonii {d''Oxh.). Pol. ocellata, A. et II. M. Atlanticum. 



7. P. pudica, Loven. Ind. Moll., 1846, p. 6. M. Atlanticum. 



8. P. pallida. Bgh.. n. sp. M. Pacificum. 



9. P. duhia, Sars. Bidr. til Soedyrenes. Naturb., 1829, p. 13. Tab. 2, 



tig. 5, 0. Lovcu, Ind. Moll., 1846, p. 6. M. Atlanticum sept. 



10. P. ? Gookii, Angas. Jouru. de Concbyl,, 3 S., IV, 1, 1864, p. 58 ; PI. V, 



f. 6. M. Pacificum. 



11. P. ? Capensis, Quoy et Gaim. Voy. de I'Uranie. Zool., 1834, p. 417; 



PI. 66, f. 4. M. Capense.2 



P. pallida, Bgh., n sp. Plate XV, fig. 11; Plate XVI, fig. 1-9. 



Color flavescens. Brancbia sexfoliata. 



Lamellae mandibulares fere ut in Pol. Lesaonii, sed magis elongata?. 

 Armatura lingualis fere ut in Pol. Lessonii; dentes externi 5. 

 Hah. Oc. Pacificum septentr. 



Of ibis form Dall dredged a single individual in June, 1873, at 

 Kyska Harbor (Aleutians), at tbe deptb of ten fatboms on rocky 

 bottom. According to Dall, tbe color of the living animal was "yel- 

 lowish-white." 



The length of the animal preserved in spirits was 7.0 mm., with a 

 height of 4.0 and a breadth of 3.0 mm. ; the height of the branchial 

 leaves about 1.0 mm., also that of the rhinophoria ; the breadth of the 



• "Viridifusca, sulphureo maculata, papillis frontis 10, branchiali 

 utrinquc una postica majore ; 11 mm. Bohus," Loven. 



Tbi.s, as well as the other new Polycerm of Loven, has not since been 

 seen (Cf. G. O. Sars, Moll. reg. arct. Norv., 1878, p. 313). 



2 Of tbe three (not too naturally represented) "Polycerai " of A. Fr6dol 

 (Moquin-Tandon), the one (1. c. PI. XII, fig. 6) seems to be tbe Pol. 

 Lessonii, the other two (fig. 3, 4) belong undoubtedly to the geuu& 

 Thecacera. j<ioefii 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPDIA. 109 



foot 2.0 mm. The color of the animal whitish, that of the rhinophoria 

 and the branchial leaves more yellow ; the margin of the foot white. 



The form as usual. The head rounded, with a prominence on the 

 upper lateral part ; the mouth a vertical slit. The margin of the 

 rhinophor-grooves plain. The stalk of the rhinophoria nearly as high 

 as the club, cylindrical; the club rather flattened, with about fifteen 

 leaves; before the rhinophoria a low transverse frontal veil with 

 scarcely more than two prominences ; the veil continued backwards as 

 a rather indistinct prominent line on each side of the smooth rounded 

 back ; the pericardial region a little prominent ; behind the middle of 

 the length of the back, the gill with six tripinnate leaves in a slight 

 curve ; behind them the quite low anal nipple, and towards the right 

 side the renal pore ; behind the gill a little flattened space with a slight 

 crest on each side with three papilla-. The sides of the body rather 

 high. In the region of the anterior angles of the foot the genital 

 papilla with the everted penis (without its recurved point, 0.7.5 mm. 

 high), and below it a folded lamella, the duct of the mucous gland. The 

 foot rather narrow, of nearly the same breadth ; the rounded anterior 

 angles somewhat prominent; a fine furrow in the anterior margin. 



The intestines indistinctly appearing through the walls of the body. 

 The peritoneum colorless, nearly without spicula. 



The central nervous system (fig. 1 ) very depressed ; the cerebral 

 ganglia of rounded-triangular form, a little larger than the more 

 rounded visceral (fig. la); the pedal ones more pyriform, a little 

 larger than the last ; the ( proximal) olfactory ganglia bulbiform, not 

 quite as large as the buccal ones, which were (fig. 1^) of rounded form, 

 connected by a not very short commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal 

 ganglia of about one eighth of the size of the former, rounded.' The 

 three inferior (subcerebral, visceral, and pedal) commissures (or at 

 least the visceral one) free. 



The eyes (fig. 1) short-stalked, with black pigment and pale yellowish 

 lens. The otocysts (fig. 1 i in their usual place, very short-stalked, 

 with about eighty otokonia of the ordinary kind. In the stalk of the 

 rhinophoria some scattered yellowish thick spicula, of the same kind 

 as in the skin of the back ; none, on the contrary, in the leaves of the 

 club. In the skin some scattered, yellowish, thick, straight or curved 

 spicula,' mostly of about 0.1.5-0.3 mm. in lengtli, and of the usual 

 form. In the interstitial tissue very few larger spicula. 



' lu tlic other species of Po^rjcrra I Iiave examined. I never .saw gastro- 

 tBSophagcal ganglia, nor any in Euplocamus or in Pl)ca>nopIieru$. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1880 



The oral tube whitish, of about 1.0 mm. length, wide. The bulbus 

 pliaryngeus clear brownish-yellow, somewhat pyriform, with oblique 

 flattened posterior end, in length about 1.6, by a height of nearly 1.3, 

 and a breadth of l.o mm. ; the sheath of the radula a little prominent 

 downwards, and to the left from the hindermost part of the under side of 

 the bulbus. The lip-disk clothed with a brownish-yellow cuticula, that 

 is continued into tlie two mandibular plates behind the lip-disk at the 

 entrance of the oral cavity, the form of the mandible could not be 

 determined with certainty ; a yellowish cuticula clothes the rest of the 

 cavity. The tongue with ten rows of plates, further backwards six 

 developed and two younger rows ; the total number eighteen.* The 

 rhachis (fig. 2) not very narrow. The plates yellow. The length of 

 the first plate about 0.11, of the second 0.20, of the inmost of the ex- 

 ternal plates 0.14, of the following 0.12, 0.10, 08 and 0.06 mm. (all 

 from the hinder part of the sheath). The first lateral plate (fig. laa, 

 5, 6) formed somewhat as in the P. Lessouii, the hook still smaller ; 

 the second of the same form, but larger (fig. 'ibb, 3), the books much 

 larger, especially the anterior, which is broader and excavated (fig. 7). 

 More outwards five external plates (fig. 2cc), all with a crest, which is 

 larger in the two innermost ; adjoining the outermost of these plates 

 several longitudinal folds of the lingual cuticula, which sometimes 

 simulate one to two plates more (fig. 2). 



The salivary glands whitish, elongate. The oesophagus rather wide, 

 the stomach inclosed in the liver. The intestine appearing at the 

 middle of the length of the liver a little to the left, at the bottom of a 

 deep and large cavity in the upper side of the liver ; the pyloric part 



' According to Alder and Hancock (Monog. Part VII, 1855, PI, 41 sup- 

 plement, fig. 20, 21), the number of rows was fifteen in the Polycera quad- 

 rilineata, sixteen in the P. oceUata, thirteen in the P. Lessonii ; Alder and 

 Hancock saw (1. c. ) four external plates in the Pol. quadrilineata, five in 

 P. ocellata, and six in P. Lessonii. Meyer and Moebius saw five to seven 

 external plates in their Polycera ocellata, whilst the number of rows 1 1. c. 

 PI. 50) is noted as thirteen to fifteen ; in the P. quadrilineata they found 

 four to five external plates and twelve to thirteen rows. In four specimens 

 of Pol. quadrilineata I saw six to eight rows on the tongue, more back- 

 wards six to seven developed, and one not quite developed row ; the total 

 number of rows was fourteen to fifteen. In all sjjecimens there were but 

 four external plates. In four specimens of Pol. Lessonii I saw nine to ten 

 rows on the tongue, more backwards eight to seven or five developed, 

 and a single not developed row; the total number of rows w^as sixteen to 

 eighteen. In all the specimens there were eight external plates. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



of the intestine rather wide, its curve reaching to the bulbus pharyn- 

 geus. The liver about 5.0 ram. long by a breadth of 3.5 and a hei'^ht 

 of 3.25 mm. ; the form conical, the posterior end rounded, the anterior 

 much broader, flattened and adjoining another flattening on the infe- 

 rior part of the right side of the organ ; the color was yellowish. 



The sanguineous gland of quadrangular form, of a diameter of about 

 1.5 mm,, whitish. 



The hermaphroditic gland with its yellowish-white lobes covering 

 nearly the whole surface of the liver : in the lobes large oogene cells. 

 The anterior genital mass of the length of about 4.0 mm. by a height 

 of 3.0 and a breadth of 1.5 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic 

 duct resting on the inferior margin of the genital mass, whitish, 

 straight, of the length of 3.0 mm by a diameter of about 0,5 mm. 

 At the anterior end of the ampulla a flattened body (prostate) that 

 freely projects before the anterior margin of the rest of the genital 

 mass ; it was of about the same length as the ampulla, but nearly twice 

 as broad ; the cavity of the organ rather large and the walls rather 

 thin. The prostate slopes gradually into the thin but strong spermato- 

 duct, which is about 6.0 mm. long and terminates in the penis, which 

 was short, conical (fig. 8<7, 9), about 0.V5 mm, long, and terminated 

 in a somewhat flexible, yellowish glans (fig, 8, 9, 14), of the length of 

 about 0,87 mm, by a diameter at the base of about 0,09, and at the 

 point of 0.037 mm.; through the largest part of its length it was 

 covered with (in all about twelve) series of small chitinized crests, 

 which did not surpass the height of about 0.0025 mm. (fig. 14); the 

 armature only continued through a short part of the interior of the 

 spermatoduct. The spermatotheca spherical ; the spermatocysta p}Ti- 

 form, filled with sperma. The cordate mucous gland whitish and 

 yellowish-white (fig. 8b). 



This species approaches to the Pol. Lessnnii, but seems even dif- 

 ferent in color from that and the other Atlantic forms, and also diflfers 

 in the slight development of the frontal veil and of the lateral crests of 

 the back, as well as in the number of the external plates of tongue, 

 and' in the nature of the armature of the penis. 



' The armature of the penis of Polyc. quadrilineata (hitherto the only 

 species in wliich an armature has been described i as figured by Friele and 

 Hansen (1. c. Tab. II, fifj. 3i is very diftercnt from that of the Paciiic spe- 

 cies, and that ditiereuce has been coiilirmed by my examiuatiou of typical 

 specimens. 




11:2 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



TRIOFHA, BergI), n. gen. 



Forma corporis fere ut in Triopis, sicut quoque luaigo iVoiita- 

 lis ; margo dorsalis appeudicibus nonnuUis nodosis vol breve 

 ramosis. Tentacula compresso-poculifonnes (aurilbnnia) ; rhino- 

 phoria retraetilia, clavo pcrfoliato. Brauchia quiiKpioIbliata, 

 foliis tripinuatis. 



Os lamellis duabus fortioribus e baculis minutis compoaitis 

 armatiiiu. Lingua rbachide dentibus spuriis (-l) ; plouris donti- 

 bus lateralibus 3-4 (corpore proeessu alaiformi et hamo ap- 

 planato instructis) et serie dentium externorum (10-11) aruiatis. 



Prostata ? 



This interesting form, that forms a link between Pohjcera 

 and Tinopa on one side, and the Eaplocami on the other, ap- 

 proaches more nearly to the latter than to the former. 



In the exterior, the Triophce^ resemble the Triopce^ but still 

 differ in some points sufficiently. The appendices of the back 

 are more composite ; the tentacles seem different from those of 

 the TriopcE (which have them folded lengthwise and obtuse at 

 the end; see for comparison, PI. XV, fig. 12); they are com- 

 pressed cup-shaped or auriculate. The gill contains five leaves. 

 Whilst the Trio'pm want an armature of the true moutli,- the 

 TriophcB are provided with two strong plates (composed of 

 densely set staffs). Whilst the rhachis of the tongue in the 

 Triopce is naked, the TriophcB show four false plates, ('-bosses" of 

 Dall, simple thickenings of tlie base membrane of the radula), 

 here; instead of the two peculiarly formed lateral plates on the 

 pleurae in the Triopa^ the Triophce have three or four lateral 

 plates (with a wing-like process of the body and a depressed 

 hook) ; with, on the outside of these, a series of (ten to eleven) 

 uncinal plates, nearly as in the Triopce. After all, the Triopha; 

 are closelj^ allied to the Colga;,^ and essentially differ from tliese 



1 Having at first and rather superficially examined the exterioi-, I first 

 regarded the animal as a Triopa, and called it so [s. jiart I, p. 128 (73), 

 and the Plates (XIV, XV)]. 



* See for comparison PI. XIII, fig. 19. 



» See for comparison PI. XIV, fig. 21, 22. 



*■ The diagnosis of the GolguB would be : 



Forma corporis fere ut in Triopis. Vaginae rliinophoriales calycifonnes 

 obliquse ; rhinophoria retractilia, clavo perfoliato. Tentacula auriformia. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 1 1 o 



only in the armature of the tongue, which in the (hlgce exhibits 

 only a single series of (false) riiachidian plates and (on each 

 side) two lateral plates in form approaching those of Pohjcera. 

 The nature of the prostate is unknown ; the armature of the 

 penis not differing mucli from tiiat ordinary in the large group of 

 the PolyceralidcE. 



Although somewhat approaching to tlie Eaplocami in tlie form 

 of the appendices of the back, in the armature of the true mouth 

 and of the pleurae of the tongne, the Triophee still entirelj' differ 

 in the form of the tentacles, in the number of the branchial 

 leaves and very likely in the nature of the prostate. 



The Triophee have hitherto been only found in the Pacific 

 Ooean. 



1. Tr. modexta, Bgh. n. sp. Oc. Pacificum. 



2, Tr. Carpenteri, Stearns. Proc. of the Cal. Acad, of Sci., April 7, 1873, 



p. 2, fig. 2. Oc. Pacificum (California). 



Tr. modesta, Bgh. n. sp. PI. XIV. -fig. 17-20 ; PI. XV, fi-. 1-10. 

 .' Triopa Carpenteri, Stearns. 1. c. p. 2, fig. 2, 



Colore Havido albescens. Appendices dorsales pauca^ ; folia 

 brancliialia 5. 



Hah. Oc. Pacif. septentr. 



Of this form Dall has obtained a single individual at Yukon 

 Harbor (Shumagins), in August, 18T4, at a depth of six to 

 twent}' fixthoms, on a bottom of sand and stones. The color of 

 the living animal was, according to Dall, "yellowish-white.-" 



The animal preserved in spirits was of whitish color; the 

 dorsal appendices, the gill and the rhinophoria more yellowisii. 

 The length of the animal 10.0 mm., by a heigiit of 1.0 and a 



Dorsum papilligerum, praesertim margo frontalis et dorsalis. Brauchia 

 pauci (4-5 foliata. 



Mandibula; triangulares, fortes. Radula fere ut in Polyccratis, dentibus 

 lateralibus (2) et externis (7), sed praetcrea dentibus medianis ispuriis) 

 instructa. 



Merely one species of the genus is yet knowu, one of the first described 

 Nudihranchiata, the Doris hicera of Abildgaard (Zool. Dan., IV, 1806, 

 p. 23, Tab. CXXXVIII, fig. 3, 4i, which has been found too on the coaet 

 of America (Cf. Verrill, notice of recent addit. to the Mar. Fauna of 

 North Am., XXXVIII. Amcr. Jour, of Sc. and Arts, XVI, 187S, p. 21 T. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880- 



breadth of 5.5 mm. ; the height of the Lrtiuchial Iciives 1.25, of 

 the rhinophoria 2.0 mm. ; the breadth of the foot 3.5 mm. 



The form as usual. The head flattened in front, semilunar; 

 the tentacles compressed-cup-shaped, rather short (about 1.0 mm. 

 long), truncated at the end, longitudinally folded and open at 

 the outer side. The frontal margin not projecting much, with 

 man}' smaller and larger short digitations and crenulatious ; in 

 front in the median line were two small conical papillae before 

 the region of the rhinophoria. The margin of the rhinophor- 

 holes somewhat projecting, smooth: the (deeply retracted) rhino- 

 phoria with rather short stalk ; the club with thirty-five to forty 

 rather broad and thin leaves. 



The back rounded over from side to side, without certain, limits 

 between it and the sides of the body. At the lateral parts 

 of the back (on each side) five appendices ; the first standing a 

 little behind the end of the frontal margin ; the next about in 

 the middle of the space between the first and third ; this last a 

 little before the region of the gill ; farther backwards were also 

 two similar ones. The appendices were club-shaped, with simple 

 or composite nodosities spread upon their bodies, and especially 

 at their bases ; the third was the largest, reaching the height of 

 about 2.5 mm.; all the others. a little smaller, and all of about 

 the same size. Much smaller, conical or club-formed simple 

 papillae were scantily and irregularly scattered on the back. The 

 gill consisting of five strong, tripinnate, quite separate leaves, a 

 single antei'ior and two lateral pairs. The anal nipple nearly 

 in the centre of the posteriorly open branchial circle, a blunted, 

 nearly cylindrical prominence, about 0.5 mm. in height-; at its 

 base on the right side and a little forwards was the very distinct 

 renal pore. The sides of the body rather high and smooth ; the 

 genital opening a short longitudinal slit lying rather forwards, 

 with two openings at its bottom. The foot not very narrow, of 

 nearly the same breadth throughoat its whole length ; the anterior 

 l)order eraarginated in the middle, with a fine line. 



The intestines did not shine through the integuments. The 

 peritoneum was colorless, without spicula. 



The central nervous system (PI. XV, fig. 1) flattened ; the 

 cerebro-visceral ganglia (fig. la) reniform, a little narrower at 

 the fore-end ; the pedal ones (fig. \bb) rounded, scarcely larger 

 than the visceral ; the large commissure (fig. 1) as usual ; small 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



optic ganglia (fig. 1). The proximal olfactory ganglia Cfig. Ic) 

 bulbiforin, the n. olfactorii not very long; the distal olfactory 

 ganglia inverse pyriform. The Iniccal ganglia (fig. \dd) ovoid, 

 connected nearly without commissure ; the gastro-oesophageal 

 ganglia small (fig. le), with one large cell. 



The eyes (fig. 1) with coal-black pigment and yellow lens.' 

 The otocysts at the usual place on the under side of the cerebro- 

 visceral ganglionic mass, crowded with otokonia of the usual 

 kind (fig. 1). In the leaves of the rhinophoria no spicula ; in 

 the axes and in the stalk, on the contrary, spicula of the same 

 kind as in the skin or often larger. The skin with few and 

 small spicula and calcified rounded cells, here and there lying in 

 groups. The marginal dorsal appendices covered all over Avith 

 above-mentioned nodosities ; at their points perhaps a similar 

 (but empty) bag as in the typical species (Cf. PI. XIII, fig. 1(5, 17). 



The anal tube large, 3.0 mm. long. The bulbus pharyngeus 

 strong, of the length of 4.0 by a height of 3.0 and a breadth of 

 3.3 mm. ; the radula-sheath projecting about 1.0 mm. from the 

 hinder part of the under side of the bulbus. The lip-disk rather 

 convex, with vertical oral slit (PI. XY, fig. 2), clothed with a 

 pale yellow cuticula, that behind the oral slit on each side is con- 

 tinued in a triangular, brownish-yellow lip-plate of a greatest 

 breadth of 1.0 mm (fig. 3), narrow at the inferior end, broader 

 at the superior, and composed of simple, somewhat curved, erect 

 stafli's (fig. 4, 5) about 0.18 mm. in height (fig. 4). The tongue 

 broad ; in the amber-yellow radula, thirteen rows of plates, 

 further backwards in the sheath, six developed and two younger 

 rows ; the total number thus twenty-one. The three foremost 

 rows of the tongue very incomplete, reduced to the outermost 

 (four to five, six to seven, nine to eleven) uncinal plates. The 

 rhachis rather broad, bearing two quadrangular thickenings of 

 the cuticula (PI. XV, fig. 6a) of the length of about 0.18-0.2 

 mm., more thickened and yellowish in the anterior margin, other- 

 wise colorless. At the outer side of these median plates is a 

 somewhat shorter and narrower plate (fig. 666), of yellowish 

 color; in the posterior rows (PI. XI Y, fig. 20) much broader. 

 The three succeeding plates brownish-3ellow, hook-shnpod, all 

 nearly of the same form and of the same but outwardly slowly 



* Aider and Hancock (1. c. part VI) also saw small optic ganglia in the 

 Triopa elavigera. 




IIG PROCEEDINGS OF THE AOADEINIY OF [1880. 



dccroasinc; size (PI. XA', (ii>:. Gcd) ; the fourth lateral plate, on 

 the ton<2,ue especially, ■with a small hook (fig. 7a) that is more 

 developed backwards, and in the four youngest rows is developed 

 quite (PI. XI Y, fig. 17) as in the three plates mentioned. On the 

 lateral parts of the pleur?e ten to eleven external (uncinal) plates, 

 the four to five interior (fig. 7, 8a6, 10 ; 176c) with a more devel- 

 oped crest, the rest (fig. 76) narrower. 



The salivar}'^ glands (PI. XV, fig. 11a) nearly as long as the 

 duct (fig. 116) ; both together about 5.5 mm. long, descending 

 along the whole back side of the bulbus pharyngeus ; the gland 

 whitish, smooth. 



The oesophagus rather long (G.5 mm.), and wide especially 

 in the posterior part (diameter 2.0 mm.), entering into the inferior 

 part of the liver ; with rather strong and numerous folds ; the 

 contents (as in the intestine") spongiary masses and different Ba- 

 diolarir-e of a diameter of 0.09 mm. The intestine issuing from the 

 liver a little before the middle of the upper side of this organ ; 

 the anteriorly proceeding pai't reaching the anterior margin of 

 the liver and about 4,5 mm. long by a diameter of 1.5 mm. ; the 

 retrocessive part 7.0 mm. long by a diameter of 0.75 mm. The 

 liver divided hy a deep furrow from the right margin into two 

 halves of nearly equal size; 6.0 mm. long by a breadth of 3.75 

 and a height of 3.4 mm.; the posterior extremity rounded; th*^ 

 anterior half of the inferior side obliquely flattened ; the color 

 yellowish-gray ; the cavitj' of the interior rather small. 



The pericardium of oval form, large, having the length of 

 3.5 mm. The sanguineous gland whitish, of the length of 2.5 mm. 

 by a breadth (at the anterior end) of 2.5 mm. The renal syrinx 

 short-pyrii'orm ; the tube of the organ strong. 



The hermaphroditic gland not much developed, paler than 

 the liver, with large oogene cells. The anterior genital mass 

 small, about 1.5 mm. long by a height of 0.75 and a breadth of 

 about 0.5 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct yellow- 

 ish, rather long, forming corkscrew-like windings. The sperma- 

 toduct not long, passing into the short penis. This, with its 

 armature of very minute hooks, the spermatotheca, the spermato- 

 cysta and the vagina, as far as could be determined, as in the 

 typical Triopa} The gland whitish. 



' See for comparison, PI. XV, fig. 13. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELPHIA. 117 



Tfiis species may perhaps be the Triojja Garpenteri of Stearns; 

 it has, like that, five branchial leaves, and does not differ much in 

 the number of the dorsil appendices (six) or the form of the 

 frontal margin ; but the dorsal nodosities of the last species are 

 orange-colored, and the rhinophoria, the dorsal appendices, and 

 the branchial leaves tipped with orange. Through the great 

 kindness of Mr. Dall I have seen a drawing of the animal of 

 Stearns, ft-om specimens secured after those he had descril)ed, 

 but they do not give more details than the original description ; 

 and Steams seems not to possess the original specimens, which 

 very likely are lost forever. On the other side, it must be remem- 

 bered that Sars (Beretn. om en i Somraeren, 18-49, forcL;v^en 

 zoolog. Ileise i Lofoten og Finmarken, 1851, p. 71) found "the 

 young individuals of Triopa lacera (M.) entirely white, also on 

 the tentacles and gills, merely the liver shines brownish through 

 the skin." 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



An asterisk denotes that the drawing is by camera lucida, the 

 fraction denotes the magnification. 



The serial numbers of the plates (Part I, plates i-viii, Part II. 

 plates ix-xvi) are solely referred to throughout the text. As 

 Part II appears in another volume of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, the plates of Part II have been for that reason renum- 

 l)ered with a second set of numbers, Plate ix being Plate i, Plate x 

 l>eing Plate ii, etc., in the new volume. The serial numbers re- 

 ferred to in the text, follow the new numbers for Part II in 

 parentheses throughout this explanation. 



Plate I (IX). 



Jorunna Johnstoni (A. and II.). 



1. a, stalk of the (b) gangl. genitale; c, gang!, genii, secunda- 



rium* ^^K 

 •2. Granules of the back, stiffened by spicula,* ^^^. 

 :). Part of the middle of the radula, with the two innermost 



lateral plates; o, rhachis,* ^J^. 

 4. The hook of a plate from the back,* -^5^, 




118 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



5. Outer part of two series of plates with 8 plates,* -y~> ^^^ 



outermost. 



6. Outer part of another series with 3 plates,* -J-. 



7. a-6, vagina; c, gland, hastatoria; d, opening of the bag of 



the spur; e, sperraatoduct ; /, penis,* -Y-. 

 8,9. Spermatotheca ; c, its chief duct; d, gland, hastatoria; b. 

 spermatoc^-sta ; e, duct to the mucous gland,* -Y-. 



10. a, Duct of the gland, hastatoria; 6, the bag of the spur; c, 



opening of the bag,* ^f-. 



11. a, spermatoduct ; b, opening of the bag at the bottom of the 



penis ; in the interior a dart (?),* -f-- 



Adalaria proxima (A. and H.). 



12. Tubercles of the back. 



13. A part of the rhachis from above; a, median plates; 6&, large 



lateral plates,* ^\^. 



14. Part of the radula, obliquel}'^, from the side , the hooks of the 



large lateral plates of both sides,* ^y^. 



15. Two series of (9) external plates; a, the innermost; b, the 



outermost,* ^\^. 



Adalaria albopapillosa (Dall). 



16. Part of the surface of a tubercle of the back,* -j^. 



Adalaria pacifica, Bergh. 



17. a, median plate ; 6, large lateral plates from the side,* -f^. 



Lamellidoris muricata (0. Fr. MUUer). 



18. The vesicafellea ; a, its duct. 



Plate II (X). 



Adalaria pacijica, Bergh. 



1. Median pseudo-plate (or boss), from the upper side,* -f^. 



2. 2. Part of the radula, -with series of (5-7) lateral plates ; a-a, 



1-2 complete rows of (15) external plates, and 1-2 incom- 

 plete rows ; 56, innermost plates of the row ; cc, outer- 

 most,* ^^. 



3. Outer part of a row with 9 erect plates ; a, innermost,* ^f-. 




I880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 119 



Adalaria virescens, Bergh. 



4. a, esophagus, with its dilatation ; b, salivary gland ; c, its 



duct. 



5. Ganglion penis^* ^^-. 



Adalaria Loveni (A. and H.). 



6. Median part of the radula from above, witli (aa) large lateral 



plates ; 66, innermost part of two rows of external plates, 

 with 1-5 plates,* ^^. 



7. Large lateral plate, from the side,* ^f-. 



8. Piece of the left part of the radula;* ^|^ a, two median 



pseudo-plates or bosses ; 6, large lateral plates ; c, two in- 

 complete rows, with 6-7 plates. 



Adalaria alhopapillosa (Dall). 



9. a, (2) median pseudo-plates ; 66, (2—3) large lateral plates of 



both sides,* ^^. 



10. a, (3) median pseudo-plates; 66, (2-4) large lateral i)lates of 



both sides ; c, innermost part of three (right) rows of ex- 

 ternal plates, with 3-4 plates ; rf, (left) row of 1 external 

 plates,* ^K 



11. Four outermost plates of a row; a, outermost,* ^-\^. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (0. Fr. Miiller). 



12. End of the everted penis; a, opening,* ^f^. 



13. Epithelium of the vagina,* --J-. 



Acanthodoris pilosa, var. albescens (Pacijica). 



14. a, anterior margin of the foot; 6, edge of the .tentacle. 



15. Oanglion genitale from the penis,* J-J^. 



Plate III (XI). 



Acanthodoris pilosa (Miiller). 



1. Three external plates ; a, outermost,* ^{K 



Acanthodoris pilosa, var. albescens. 



2. The genital opening with its everted margin ; a, the two fore- 



most apertures. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Latncllidoris bilamellata (L.) var. racifica. 



3. Tail of the branchial area with {aa) some branchial leaves ; &6, 



some of the larger surrounding tubercles. In the centre 

 the anal nipple, the renal pore and interbranchial tubercles. 



4. The sucking crop, from the edge, 



.5. The half of the same, from the inside ; a, stalk. 



T). a., spe7'matotheca ; 6, spermatocyHla ; c, duct of the last; d, 



duct to the mucous gland ; e, vagina. 

 7. a, two median pseudo-plates ; 6, a lateral plate ; cc, three 



external plates,* ^jf-. 

 '^. External plate from the side,* ^^K 

 9. Two of the foremost lateral plates with blunted end,* ^y^. 



Lamellidoris muricala (Miiller). 



10. a, Median pseudo-plate shining through the left of the lateral 



plates, hh ; e, three external plates,* ^f ^. 



11. aa, Basal edge of three lateral plates ; 6, external plates,* ^-. 



1 2. a, Glans penis ; &6, prajputium ; c, spermatoduct,* ^\^. 



Lamellidoris varians, Bergh. 



13. Lateral plate from the side,* ^{^. 



1 4. Median pseudo-plate, from above,* ^f-. 



Adalaria Pacifica, Bergh. 



15. Innermost part of two rows of external plates,* -f^ ; «, two 



innermost ; &, the third failing (in the anterior row) ; c, 

 eighth. 



Plate IV (XII). 



Acanihodoris pilosa (O. F. Miiller), vsiv. purpurea. 



1. Labial disk, with (a) the lancet-formed blades projecting in 



the lowest part of the mouth proper. 



2. The lancot-formed blades (a) with the adjoining part (6) of 



the armature of the mouth,* ^^K 



3. a. The right lancet-formed blade ; 6, the adjoining part of the 



armature,* -^f^. 



4. Elements of the armature,* ^f-. 

 .5. Lateral plate, from the side,* -f^. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPHIA. 121 



<1. The hook of a plate, from the side.* -^ij-. 



7. Salivary gland ; a, duct ; 6, posterior end. 



8. a, pars pylorica iatesfini; 6, vesica fellea; c, intestinum 



descendens. 

 i). Part of the vas deferens^ with its stricture,* J-"-". 



Acanthodoris piloHa (M.) var. brunnea albopapillosa. 



10. ab, Lancet-formed blades from the under side,* J-"-. 



11. 0, Part of left; 6, of right lancet-formed blade; c, adjoining 



part of the armature of the mouth,* -^J-. 



12. aa, Upper part of three lateral plates ; bb, two series of exter- 



nal plates; from the sheath of the radula,* -f-. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (M.) var. albescens. 



13. Elements of the armature of the mouth,* ^f^. 



14. Isolated element,* ^J^. 



15. Upper part of a lateral plate, from the outside,* ^f^. 

 U). Upper part of a lateral plate, from the inside,* -^f^. 



Plate V (XIII). 



Lamellidoris varia^is, Bergh. 



1. The central nervous system, obliquely, from the under side, 



* -^Y-; a, ganglia cerebro-mscer alia; bb, ganglia pedalia; c, 

 gangl. pe.nis and gangl. genilale; d, ganglia buccalia; ee^ 

 ganglia gastro-oesophagalia. The eyes and the otocysts 

 visible. 



Acantliodoris pilosa (M.^, var. albescens. 



2. The bulbus pharyugeus, from the side ; a, cuticula and the 



lancet-formed blades; bb, mm. relraclores bulbi ; e. the 

 sucking-crop ; (/, salivary gland, above this the right buccal 

 and gastro-d'sophageal gaTiglion ; e, the sheath of the radula 

 /, the crop of the (L'so})hagus ; g, coiitiuuation of the (eso- 

 phagus. 



3. Lateral plates, from the outside,* ^^-. 



4. Part of the armature of the sj)ermatoduct, with its hooks,* ^^ . 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Acanthodoris pilosa (M.). 



r>. a, sperraatotheca ; b, spcrinatoc^'sta ; c, duct to the niucoui^ 

 gland ; dtU duct to the vagina. 



AcanthodorU cserulescens, Bergh. 



6. Part of the armature of the mouth,* ^\K 



7. Exteriial plates, from the side ;* ^\^ a, innermost. 



Chromodoris Dalli, Bergh. 



8. The upper part of a branchial leaf,* i^^. 



9. Part of the lip-plate, from above,* ^f^. 



10. Elements of the lip-plate,* ^|^. 



11. Part of the rhachis, with three (bosses or) false plates,* -'f'-'. 



12. a, false plate,, obliquely, from the side,* ^f-. 



13. The 13th plate, from the side,* ^f^. 



14. The 9th plate,, from the side,* ^K 



Triopa clavigera (0. Fr. Miiller). 



15. Tubercles of the back. 



Ifi. Vertical section of one of the appendices of the back; a, bag 

 at the point. 



17. Elements of this last bag. 



18. Spicula of the skin.* 



19. Lowest part of the mouth, with its cuticula ; a, the free 



margin,* ^^^. 



20. Hindermost part of the bulbus ; a, tongue; 6, sheath of the 



radula. 



Plate VI (XIV). 



Ghromodoris Dalli, Bergh. 



1 . The buccal (a) and gastro-oesophageal (6) ganglia,* J-^-"-. 



2. Part of the median portion of the radula ; a, false plates, on 



each side the 2-3 innermost (lateral) plates,* ^f ^. 



3. Outer part of two series of plates with 11 plates; a, outer- 



most; b, eighteenth,* ^j-. 



4. a, sperraatotheca ; b, spermatocysta ; c, duct to the vagina ; 



d. duct to the mucous gland,* ^-. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Chromodoris Cali/orniensis, Bergh. 



5. Hinder part of the body, from the under side, with 6 knots 



on the mantle-margin ; a, foot,* ^^-". 



6. Upper median part of the true mouth,* ^f^. 



7. Part of 4 series of hooks of the lip-plate, from above,* ^f ^> 

 8-10. Elements of the same, in different positions,* -f-- 



1 1. Three innermost plates ; a, the first,* ^y^. 



12. One of the largest plates,* -^j-. 



13. Hook of 3 larger plates, obliquely, from the foreside,* ^^. 



14. Four outermost plates ; a, outermost,* ^{'^. 



15. Two irregular outermost plates; a, outermost,* ^^. 



Acanthodoris cserulescens^ Bergh. 



16. Series of plates; a, two lateral plates; 6, the outermost of 



the external plates,* -2-^^. 



Triopha modesta^ Bergh. 



17. Part of one of the hindermost series of plates (in the sheath), 



with (a) 4 lateral plates and {b, c) 2 external plates,* ^^^. 



18. Q, second and 6, third large lateral plates, from above and 



from the back,* ^^. 



19. a, fourth; 6, fifth plate (as in fig. 18 from the tongue),* ^^^. 



20. Outer false })late of the rhachis (from the sheath),* -"'-f^. 



Triopa clavigera (M.). 



21. a, second lateral plate; h, two external plates,* -'^ft. 



22. First lateral plate,* ^K 



Plate VII (XV). 



Triopha modesta^ Bgh. 



1 . Central nervous system,* -Y' ; a, ganglia cerebro-visceralia : 



66, pedal ganglia ; c, ganglia olfactoria proximalia ; dd, 

 buccal ganglia ; e, gangl. gaslro-a'sophagal. 



2. The labial disk with the true mouth. 



3. Upper commissure of the lip-plates,* Y". 



4. Elements of the lip-plate,* ^^. 



5. Upper ends of two elements,* i^". 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



6. Median part of a series of the teeth ; o, (false) median platen 



of the rhaehis ; bb, external plate of the same; cc, first 

 lateral plate ; (/, third lateral i)late,* -^-. 



7. Continuation of the former; a, fourth plate; 6, outermost 



plate,* ^^. 



8. Four (inner) uncinal plates; a, the second; 6, the fifth,* --J*'. 



9. First lateral plate,* ^-^-. 



10. Seventh and eighth external plates,* ^f^. 



11. Salivary gland ; a, gland ; />, duct,* -". 



Triopa clamgera (M.). 

 l-_>. Tentacle. 

 l.S. Part of the armature of the penis.* -^f^. 



Polycera pallida, Bergh. 

 14. The glans penis,* -^K 



Plate VIII (XVI). 



Polycera jmllida, Bergh. 



1. Central nervous system, from the upper side,* -Y- ; aa, visceral 

 ganglia; &, ganglia buccalia and gastro-oesophagalia. 



'2. Part of the radula with two rows ; aa, interior ; bb, exterior 

 lateral plates ; cc, uncinal plates,* ^f^. 



■J. Exterior lateral plate, from the side,* ^f^. 



4. Under side of the two lateral plates:* aa and 6, as in fig. 2. 



* 3 .1 



-y- . 



.5. First lateral plate, from the side,* "^f 

 ♦i. The same, from above,* -^f-^. 



7. Ilook of the second lateral plate,* ^^-. 



8. Genital papilla and everted penis with its glans ; b, prominent 



fold of the duct of the mucous gland. 

 .9. Glans of the penis, with .the end of (b) the spermatoduct,* 

 ~f^ ; a, point of the glans. 



Archidoris Montereyensis (Cooper}. 



10. Large lateral plate, from the side,* ^f-^. 



11. Outer part of two series of plates with 4 plates; aa, outer- 



most,* ^K 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Aphelodoris Antillensis^ Bergh. 

 (Cf. Malakozoolog. Blatter, X. S., i, 1879, p. 107-113). 



12. a, ganglia buccalia. with 6, ganglia gastro-oesophagalia ; c, 



secondary ganglion,* -2-J-. 

 1.3. Median part of two series of plates ; aa, innermost; bb, secon<l 



plates,* -^j-. 



14. A large lateral plate,* ^j-. 



15. Outermost double plates of two series,* ^^. 



16. Outer part of two series with two i)lates ; aa, outermost,* -S^-*- 

 1 T. Tlie sixth plate from the outer margin of the radula,* -j-. 

 18. Outer part of three series with 3 plates ; a, outermost,* ^^. 



Polycera Hblbdlli (Moll.). 



19 The genital papilla?, from the front. 



20 The same, from the side. 



21. First lateral plate, from above,* -f--. 



January, 1880. 



ERRATA FOR PART I. 



On account of the inability of the author to read the proofs, 

 and from certain obscurities in the manuscript, some errors crept 

 into the first part of this pai)er, and the arrangement of the para- 

 graphs was somewhat confused by the printer. 



The delicacy and beauty of the plates in their original state, 

 iiaving been destroyed by the printer, the present ones have been 

 steel-sui'faced, to avoid, if possible, a similar misfortune. 



The specific name Galiforniensis ( Chromodoris) was substituted 

 in the printed text for Calen^ds, which appeared on the plate and 

 in the manuscript under the idea that the latter was intended 

 merely as an abbreviation. 



The following list of errata has been received from the author : 

 it is believed that the present concluding part of the pa|)er is 

 much less in need of such corrections. 



Page 128 ( 72\ line 15 : for Triopa modesta, B., read Triopha modesta, B. 

 " 129 ( 73 ^ line 22 : for mandibuhe read . Mandibulie. 

 '* 130 ( 74), line 2 ; for genus read penis. 



'' 132 ( 76), line 30 : a comma to be put before the parenthesis, and 

 the comma after the parenthesis to be cancelled. 




126 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



Page 13r> ( 79 ^ liue 11 



: for (Icntibus medianis denticulati read dentibus 

 niedianis denticulatis, 

 : for caducous read not caducous. 

 : a semicolon is needed before "the foot." 

 : the comma after " laterales " to be cancelled. 

 : a comma is needed after " 1,5"; the comma after 



" rhinophoria" to be cancelled, 

 : for Plate I. fig. 9, read PI I fig. 9-12. 

 : for (fig. 11, one to fourj read (pi. I. f. 11 ; pi. 11, 



f. 1-4). 



for The intestines are read The intestine is. 

 : for anal papillae read anal papilla. 

 : for 2 w. pi. read w. 2 pi. 

 : for 2te Heft read 2tes Heft. 

 : for ab read ob. 

 : for denticalis read denticulis. 

 : for M. retractoris read M. retractor. 

 -.for SB. J. reads R. I. 

 : for Dentes medianae read D. mediani. 

 : for altamen read attamen. 

 : for mantle read muzzle. 

 : for anal read oral. 

 : for Animal read Color animalis. 

 : before Dendi-on. Dalli, B., insert "2." 

 : for side, the read side. The. 

 : for Dalzell 7-ead Dalyell. 

 : for Tr. glaucae read Tr. glamae. 

 ; for cucculata read cucullata. 

 : for Duvancelia read Duvaucelia. 

 : for of the papillae read of the papilla. 

 : for is contracted read was contracted. 

 : for The larger mucous gland read The larger 



opening of the mucous gland. 

 : for before which read , below which. 

 : for in the hinder part read between the hinder 



parts. 

 : for The cardia were wide, etc. , read the cavity 



was, etc. 

 : for but backward at the front. and end read bent 



backward at the frontal end. 

 : for Fig. 65 a read 15 a. 

 : for bulbus, and read bulbus, or. 

 : for Beitr. read Bidr. 

 : for dentates read dentatis. 

 : for leaves 80 read leaves 8, 

 : for Fig. 6, 7, read Fig. 10, 11. 

 : for Fig. 1-7 read Fig. 8-14. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Page 166 (110), line 19 : for Fig. 1 read Fig. 8. 



" 167 (111), line 4 : for Fig. 2 read Fig. 9. 



" 167 (111), line : for Fig. 3 read Fig. 10. 



" 167 (111), line 15 : for Fig. 4 read Fig. 11. 



•' 167 (111), line 16 : for Fig. 1 a read Fig. 2 a. 



•' 167 (111), line 16 : for Fig. 5 read Fig. 12. 



•• 167 (111), line 19 : for Fig. 4, 5, read Fig. 11, 12. 



" 167 (111), line 23 : for Fig. 6, 7, 8, read Fig. 13, 14, y b. 



" 168 (112), line 5 : for Plate XII read PI. XIV. 



" 168 (112), line 6 : for punctus read punctis. 



" 170 (114), line 5 : for Fig. 13 read Fig. l.>. 



" 170 (114), line 24 : for latiuni read latum. 



'• 170 (114), line 26 : for minuti-ssimus read minutissimis. 



" 170 (114), line 33 : for the gills read the gill. 



" 171 (llo), line 34 : for Branchiai read Branchia. 



" 172 (116), line 17 : for Samso read Samso. 



" 173 (117), line 30 : substitute a semicolon for the period. 



'• 173 (117), line 31 : substitute a period for the semicolon. 



" 175 (119). line 23 : for 1.3 read 13. 



" 175 (119), line 23 : for 7 7.0 read 7-7.8. 



" 175 (119), line 24 : for the light reiad the riglrt. 



'.' 176 (120), line 7 : for individual read individuals. 



" 176 (120), line 21 : for leg read bag.. 



* 177 (121), line 1 : for branchiaj read branchia. 



" 177 (121), line 32 : for of the right hand are read of the right hand 



one, is. 



" 180 (124), line 10 : for spermatocysts read spermatocyst. 



•' 180 (124), line 33 : substitute a semicolou for the period. 



" 183 (127), line 3 : for c read a. 



" 183 (127), line 18 : for (F.) read {O. F. Miill.) 



" 183 (127), line 21 : for inside read outside. 



" 183 (127), line 23 : for the sami; read the same from the insidt*. 



■' 184 (128), line 13 : /or d T-^ad a. 



•' 184 (128), line 16 : /or 6 read a. 



' • 186 ( 130), line 12 : for of read f. 



" 186 (130), line 26 : /or 2. r«ad 2, 2. 



" 186 (130), line 33 : for e read c. 



♦' 187 (131 ), line 27 : for to the twelfth read to h. the twelfth, 



" 188 (132), line 12 : for cuticle read skin. 



li. RERGH. 




128 proceedings of the academy of [1880 



February 3. 

 Mr. Meeiian, A^'ice-President, iu the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



February 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 

 The death of Adolph E. Borie, a member, AA^as announced. 



Sarforiti.s Muscle of the Gorilla. — Mr. Howard A. Kelly 

 described the sartorius muscle in the right leg of the Gorilla 

 troglodytes (3'oung), from the Ogode river, West Africa, partially 

 dissected, and described by Dr. Chapman iu the Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci.. Phila.. 18T9. 



The muscle is 10 inches long, and ^ inch broad. Tendinous for 

 about ^ inch at its origin, and its insertion. It arises from the 

 iliac bone at the beginning of the middle third of the distance 

 from between the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the 

 symphysis pubis. Its insertion is on to the inner face of the tibia 

 (which is 5j inches long), 3 inches below the knee joint. 



Six inches from its origin the muscle is reinforced by a muscuhi r 

 slip { inch in breadth. This slip arises at the lower part of the 

 middle third of the femur, between the origin of the quadriceps 

 extensor, and the insertion of the adductors, it joins the sartorius 

 muscle opposite the knee joint. 



Tn consulting the literature on the myology of the Gorilla, no 

 reference to any such slip has been found. Among all the 

 numerous anomalies recorded of this muscle, in the human sub- 

 ject, no corresponding variation has been found. 



February IT. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled "Description of a New Crustacean from the 

 Upper Silurian of Georgia, with remarks upon Calymene Cliv- 

 tonij' by Anthony W. Vogdes, was presented for publication. 



Germination in Acorns. — Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to 

 some interesting facts in the germination of Quercus virens., as 

 brought to his attention by W. St. J. Maz3'ck, of Georgetown, 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



South Carolina. It was generally known that in this species the 

 cotj'ledon did not divide into two lobes as usual in acorns, but 

 seemed to be of one solid mass, without any trace of a division. 

 In germination, however, two petioles were developed as in other 

 acorns, but instead of these being very short, indeed nearly 

 sessile, as in the ordinary white oak, they were produced ajjpar- 

 ently in the much advanced specimens sent b}^ Mr. Mazyck to H 

 inches inlength before the ])lumule and hypocot3'ledonary portions 

 of the embryo commenced their growth. In respect to the latter, 

 a small ovate, striate tuber, apparently as one might judge from 

 the shrivelled specimens on hand, nearly one-fourth the size of the 

 acorn was formed, and from this tul>er the radicle proceeded, and, 

 afterwards, the plumule on its upward growth. 



Mr. Meehan said he had since examined sprouting acorns of 

 Quercus alba, Q. rithra, Q. arenaria , and Q. prlnoides, noticing a 

 very slight tendency to a tuberous condition, only in the last 

 named. But in regard to the lengthening of the petioles, he was 

 surprised to find a variation in each species. In Quercus pri- 

 iwidei<, the petioles were nearly an inch in length. 



He believed the discovery would be of great value to systematic 

 l)0tanists in the determination of species in this ver}- dillicult 

 genus, and should examine and report after an examination of 

 man}^ other species, but thought proper to call the attention of the 

 Academy to the matter in this early stage that due credit might 

 be recorded to Mr. Mazyck for his interesting discovery. 



Mr. Edw. Potts, at the request of Mr. Meehan, had made 

 sections of both the acorn and the spindle-shaped radicle, with the 

 result of finding the cell structure of the latter an almost exact 

 counterpart of that in the nut: ?'. e., sub-spherical cells of luiiform 

 size, gorged with starch grains. So similar were they that it 

 would be nearly imi)ossible for an observer to say which he was 

 Examining but for the cortical tissue surrounding the root. It 

 seemed that the food supply of the young plant had been thus 

 withdrawn from a position exposed to hot sun and drying winds, 

 to one protected by the earth and in the direct line of growth. 

 No line of specialized cells could be discovered in the sections of 

 the nut, indicating the possibility of a separation as in other 

 species into two cotyledons; so that to all intents and purposes it 

 might be called monocotjledonous. 



February 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer. in the chair. 



Twenty -nine persons present. 



A paper entitled '* Carcinological Notes, No. 3," by J. S. Kincjs- 

 ley, was presented for publication. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Tho death of John Kice, a member, was announced. 



R. S. Huidekoper, M. D., David Townsend, John B. Wood, 

 Thos. Miles, Frances Emily White. M. D., and John S. Capp were 

 elected members. 



The following were elected correspondents: — Robert Caspary, 

 of Konigsberg, Agostino Todaro, of Palermo, J. E. Bommer, of 

 Brussels, Teodoro Caruel, of Pisa, H. T. Geyler,of Frankfort-on- 

 the-Maine, Robert Schoraburg, of Adelaide, and A. Inostranzetf, 

 of St. Petersburoh. 



March 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The death of Wm. Maxwell Wood, M. D., a correspondent, was 

 announced. 



On a Filar ia Reported to have come from a 3fan. — Prof. Leioy 

 exhibited a large thread-worm, which had been submitted to his 

 examination by Dr. J. J. Woodward, IT. S. A. It was recently 

 presented to the Army Medical Museum, at Washington, by Dr. 

 C. L. Garnett, of Buffalo, Putnam Co., West Virginia. Aecoin- 

 panying the specimen, is the copy of a letter from Dr. Garnett to 

 Dr. Woodward, from which the following is an abstract : " During 

 the w'inter of 1816, a man, a common laborer, aged about fift}', 

 jjresented himself to me for treatment having a gleety discharge 

 from the urethra, with a burning sensation during and after mic- 

 turition. Previously, he had been treated for gonorrhoea, and I 

 prescribed accordingly. The patient not improving, applied to 

 other pi-actitioners. In April, 1878, he came to me with a round, 

 vivid-red worm, twenty-six inches in length, (the specimen 3'ou 

 now possess) which was alive and very active in its movements, 

 instantly coiling up like a watch-spring on being touched. Having 

 no work on helminthology for reference, the only description I 

 found which appeared to answer to the worm was that of Sirongy- 

 lus gigas^ in Nietneyer, vol. II. p. 47. The patient is an illiterate 

 man, with no motive for deception. He informed me that he dis- 

 covered the worm protruding from his penis and drew it out 

 without pain or difficulty. He was in much agitation and alarm 

 about the occurrence, fearing, as he said, that "there might be 

 more behind that one." For a few days previous to its passage, 

 his urine was of a milky hue and some time subsequently of a yellow 

 cast and slightly tinged with blood and mingled with mucus. The 

 man is truthful, and no doubt exists in my mind, or in the minds 

 of his neighbors as to the correctness of his statements. I regret 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF Mil LADKLPHIA. 131 



exceedingly that I did not appreciate the scientific interest of the 

 subject, and send you the specimen in a fresh state, but the busy 

 routine of a country practitioner's life leaves no time for the study 

 of other than subjects of practical value in one's every day ex- 

 perience." 



The worm preserved in alcohol is much coiled, of a clay color 

 and opacjue, or only feebly translucent, but more so at tlie head end. 

 If it is really a human i)arasite, it appears to differ from all those 

 heretofore described, and also seems different from other known 

 parasites. It certainly is neither Euslrongylva giyai^, nor is it the 

 Guinea-worm, Filaria me.(linensi><. though nearly related to this. 

 Its characters are as follows: Body long, restiform, nearly uni- 

 formly cylindrical, smooth, shining, elastic, 

 tough, without evident annulation other than 

 transverse wrinkling, with the anterior ex- 

 tremity evenly tapering in the continuous 

 head, the end of which is rounded and smooth 

 or without appendages of an}' kind ; the pos- 

 terior extremity not tapering, with the caudal 

 end incurved, bluntly rounded, without ap- 

 P«g- 1. Fig. 2. pendages and imperforate or without evident 



1. Cephalic extremity; 2. anal or genital aperture. Mouth a terminal 



Caudal extremity ; the diago- . .^ ^ i- -n ^ 



nai marking indicates the porc Without lips, papulic, or ai'maturc of any 

 re'^u'guml't.'KveXmt ^iud. Pharyux Cylindrical, and opening into 

 tere. a straight cylindrical intestine, apparently 



ending in a blind pouch. Generative organs unobserved. Length 

 of worm. 26 inches, greatest thickness, 1-5 mm. Width of head 

 just behind the rounded extremity, 0'375 mm.; opposite the com- 

 mencement of the intestine, 0*625 mm.; at the middle. \'b mm.: 

 at the incurved caudal extremity. To mm. Length of esopha- 

 gus, ri25. 



The worm, of exceedingl}- sim]ile character, is clearly neither a 

 (rordius nor a Mermis, and tliough npparently more nearly allied 

 to Filaria, a more intimate knowledge of its structure may prove 

 it to be different. For the present it was proposed to distinguish 

 it with the name of Filaria rkstiformis. 



On Rochelia patens. — Mr. J. H. Redfield remarked at the 

 meeting of the Botanical Section, that Rochelia patens was 

 founded by Nuttall, uptm a i)lant collecte;! by Wyeth on Flat 

 Head River, in the Rocky Mountains, and was described in the 

 •Fournal of the Academy, 1st series. Vol. VII, p. 44, in 1834. 



Dr. Gray in the Synoptical Flora of North America, II, p. 197. 

 remarks concerning the plant that it may be tin I'Jritrichium, but 

 has not been identilied, nor was it in tlie Academy's Herbarium. 



Mr. R. stated tliat this specimen had Ijeen recently found among 

 the Academy's specimens of I'^chinogpcrntum, and had been pro- 

 nounced by Dr. (Jray to be Kchinoxpcrmum Jlorihunduni, Leiira.. 

 a species widely diffused in Western North America. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The following report upon the plants introduced through the 

 medium of the Centennial Exhibition was read : 



BEPORT ON PLANTS INTRODUCED BY MEANS OF THE INTERNATIONAL 

 EXHIBITION, 1876. 



The committee appointed on the 10th of October, 18*76, at the re- 

 quest of the United States Centennial Commission, to examine and 

 report upon the subject of the introduction of insects* and plants 

 through the medium of foreign exhibits, respectfully reports that 

 it has delayed reporting on the plants till now in the belief that 

 some solitary plants might be overlooked, which producing seed 

 and increasing in following seasons, might be then discovered by 

 their greater numbers. But only those named in the list have been 

 found, and only in isolated specimens showing no disposition 

 whatever to spread and remain with us. So far, therefore, as the 

 object of the committee appointment is concerned, it may be said 

 in effect that no plant has been introduced, to our knowledge, 

 bj- the agency of the exhibition. 



It is but justice to say that the plants have been collected by 

 our esteemed fellow member, Mr. Isaac Burk, whose familiarity 

 with the botany of Fairmount Park, rendered him particularly 

 fitted to detect any new introduction. Some of the few plants 

 named are from the western portion of our country, others from 

 Europe, and a few from Japan. 



Lepidium sativum, L. KilUngia putnila , M-x. 



Bunias Erucago, L. Fimhristylis iniliacea, Muhl. 



Crepis tectorum, L. Cyperus diandrus, Torr. 



Centaur ea nigra, L, Triticum villosum, Beand. 



Hypoclueris radicata, L. Triticum davatum, Stedl. 



Desmodium tomentosum,, D. C. Leucaa Langsdorffiana, Steudl. 

 Cycloloma platyphylla, Moq. 



Respectfully submitted. 



John L. LeConte, 

 Geo. H. Horn, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 J. Gibbons Hunt, 

 Thomas Meehan, 



Committee. 



^Tbe report upon the insects was printed in tlie Proceedings of the 

 Academy of Natural Scienees of Philadelphia, for 1876, page 267. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 138 



March 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



Mammary Glands of Bats. — Dr. H. Allen exhibited specimens 

 of bats dissected to show the position and peculiarities of the 

 mammar}' ghinds. These bodies have been described as post- 

 axillary and two in number. For Desmodus this account is cor- 

 rect. For Fhyllorhina., Nycteris and the common red Ijc.t of this 

 {ionniry (Atalapha {= LaHiaruH) noveboracensif<) it is incorrect. 

 In the first two the glands answering to the axilla are low down 

 and have their nipples on a line with the middle of the clavicle. In the 

 common red bat the gland answering to the so-called post-axillary 

 is outside and below the axilla, but on a line with it. It occupies, 

 indeed, the lower third of the side of the chest and l)orders upon 

 the inferior line of the chest. In addition to this there is con- 

 stantly' present a pectoral gland situated as in Quadrumana and 

 the human species. These glands resemble one another in general 

 api)earance and size, being circular in form, without hair, of a 

 dull yellow color, possessing a well-developed nipple, and meas- 

 uring 3 lines in diameter. 



It is interesting to observe that the specimens of non-lactating 

 bats show no external signs of mammie. The mammary regions are 

 covered with fur of the same character as seen elsewhere. 

 Neither in a female with embryos 2 lines in length is there any 

 external development. If such a specimen be dissected, the 

 locality of a rudiment of the gland can be detected by the posi- 

 tion of a small circle of thin, dark skin with a central white spot, 

 such structures representing the patch of modified skin and nipple 

 read}' to receive the future develoi)ing active gland. No mam- 

 mary structure in this stage is anywhere visible, nor is there any 

 subcutaneous fat. Dissection of the bod}' of the lactating female 

 on the other hand shows the mamma to be as large as the external 

 conformation, and the pectoral and lateral thoracic regions to be 

 occupied by a large but sharply limited mass of fat, which runs 

 up into the axilla and encroaches upon the dorsal surlace of the 

 trunk. The rest of the under surface of the animal is without fat. 

 It is likely that there exists in the bat the same provision noted 

 in analogous structures of many lower animals, — namely, the 

 presence of secondary sexual characters (among which the milk 

 gland may be placed) which practically disappear in the periods 

 between sexual activity. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



March 16. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled " Cai'cinological Notes, No. IV," by J. S. 

 Kingslcy. 



The death of Dr. Wm. M. King, TJ. S. N., a member, Tvas 

 announced. 



March 2S» 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger,. in the chair. 

 One hundred and fifteen persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On the Gestation and Generative Apparatus of the Elephant," 

 by H. C. Chapman, M. D. 



" On a New Species of Hemitripterus from Alaska," by W. N. 

 Lockington. 



The death of Hector Tyndale, a member, was announced. 



March 30. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



The death of Jacob Stauffer, a correspondent, was announced. 

 Paris Haldeman, Geo. B. Heckel and Emlen Physic, M. D., were 

 elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed ; — 




PROC. A. N, S, I8S0. 



PL IX, 



KINCSLEYONCELASIMI. 





KINGSLEYONCELASIMI. 





1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPUIA. 135 



CARCINOLOGICAL NOTES, No. II.-EEVISION OF THE GELA8IMI 

 BY J. S. KINGSLKY. 



I have endeavored in this paper to straighten out the species of 

 the " Fiddler Crabs," basing my work on the large collections of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and of the 

 Peabody Academy of Sciences at Saleiii, Mass. My material has 

 been ample, embracing more than half the known forms, among 

 which are types of Smith, Guerin, Eydoux, Leconte and Say, 

 with other specimens from Guerin's collection which were identified 

 by comparison with the types of Milne Edwards. I have reduced 

 considerably the number of specific forms, and in so doing I have 

 been actuated not by any desire to overturn the work of others, 

 but merely to arrive at the true limits of the species. A similar 

 reduction in other genera must be made, and will be made, by 

 any one who attempts to study the forms of the whole world, and 

 does not limit himself to those of a small portion of its surface. 

 Among the important features of this paper is the extension of 

 tl)e range of many forms, which has been accomplished either 

 by finding new localities among the specimens studied, or by a 

 union of two or more so-called species which bore difl'erent names 

 in different portions of the world. 



I have endeavored to give descriptions and figures of all known 

 forms of Gelasimi, and when possible I have taken them from the 

 specimens themselves ; when I had no specimens, I have given a 

 description compiled from some other carcinologist, and have 

 followed it by the initial of his name. The same remark will 

 apply to the figures. Localities from which I have examined 

 ai)ecimen8 are followed b\' an exclamation point (!), and the 

 museum in which the forms are preserved is indicated by an 

 abbreviation ; these abbreviations are : Phila. Acad., Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pa. ; Peab. Acad., Peabody 

 Academy of Sciences, Salem, Mass. ; XJ. C, Union College, 

 Schenectady, N. Y. 



Genus GELASIMUS Latreille. 

 Cancer (pars.) Linne, Herbst, Fabricius, De Geer. Ocypoda (pars) Bosc, 

 Ilistoire Naturelle des Crustaces, ii, p. 240 (1828)'; Latreille, 



' I have never seen a copy of the first edition of this work published iu 

 the " An X " of the first French Republic (1802-3 of accepted chronology), 

 and my references are either quoted from the second edition by Desmarest, 

 or at second hand from Milne Edwards, or some other author. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880- 



Histoire <les Crustaces et de la Insects, vi, p. 27, " An. XI " (1803-1 . i 

 Uca Leach, Trans. Linn. Soc, London, xi, p. 309 (1815). Oekmmus 

 Latreillo, Nouvelle Dictionnaire d' Histoire Natnrelle, xii, p. 517 

 (1817) ; Henri Milne-Edwards, Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces, ii, 

 p. 49 (1837); Annales des Sciences Naturelles, HI serie, xviii, p. 

 144 (1852) ; Dana, Crustacea of the United States Exploring Expe- 

 dition, pp. 312 and 315 (1852) ; Hess, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, 

 xxxi, Pt. II, p. 145 (1865); Alphonse Milne-Edwards, Nouvelle 

 Archives du Museum d' Histoire Naturelle, xi, p. 271 (1873) ; 

 Oonoplax (pai-s.) Lamarck, Histoire Animaux sans Vertebres, v. p. 

 253 (1818). 



The genus Gelasimui^ belongs to Cyclometopa {Ocypodoidea of 

 Dana), family MacrophtJiahnidfv (Dana), and sub-family Ocypo- 

 dinae of the same author. It is characterized by the rhomboidal 

 carapax, broader in front, the elongate ocular pedicels, the eyes 

 proper being placed at the extremity, and by the great inequality 

 of the chelipeds in the male. 



In my studies I have found the characters derived from the 

 larger cheliped of the male to be the most constant, while the 

 relative proportions of the carapax, the front and the margins of 

 the orbit, are of but slight importance and very variable. 



But two species ever referred to this genus by authors, are 

 now referred to other genera ; Gelasimus cordiformis forming 

 the type of the genus Hehecius of Dana, and Gelasimus tel- 

 escopieus Owen, which belongs to the genus Macrophthalmus. 



The genus may be divided into two groups, possibly of sub- 

 generic value, according as the front between the eyes is wide or 

 narrow, and the wide fronted section again according as the male 

 abdomen is seven or five jointed. 



§ A. Front very narrow between the eyes. 

 1. Gelasimus maracoani Latreille. PI. is, f. 1. 



Ocypoda maracoani Latreille, Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 46 (1803). 



Oelasimus maracoani haireille, Diet. d^Hisi. l!fa,t., xii, p. 519 (1817); 

 Desmarest. Consid. (pars) p. 123 (1825) ; Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., 

 ii, p. 51 (1837) ; Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 144, pi. Ill, f. 1 (1852) ; 

 Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex. Crust., p. 318 (1852) ; White, List. Crust. Brit. 

 Mus., p. 35 (1847). Gonoplax maracoani Lamarck, Hist. An. 

 Sans Vert., v, p. 254 (1818). Gelasimus armatus Smith, Trans. 

 Conn. Acad,, ii, p. 123, pi. ii, f. 5, pi. iii, f. 4 (1870) ; Report Pea- 

 body Acad. Sci., iii, p. 91 (1871). 



Regions distinct, each branchial ornamented with a longitudinal 

 ridge, from which branch off smaller ones. Ischium of larger 




J 880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELniTA. 13T 



chelipcd with a prominent tooth below ; meros with a tooth on 

 posterior margin at the articulation with the carpus, otherwise 

 smooth and rounded, its ujtper and lower margins with spiniform 

 teeth wliich are more prominent above ; carpus elongate, with in- 

 distinct tubercles. Iland very large, compressed, externally 

 tnberculate on the basal portion, above with several teeth like 

 those of meros, inferior margin proximaLy tnberculate, outer sur- 

 face of thumb with large shallow punctai, the lower portion being 

 marginate. Occludent margin with three rows of tuberclfes, the 

 middle one forming a prominence at the basal two-fifths, the other 

 rows undulating, extremity contorted, acute ; inner surface nearly 

 smooth, with a tubercular ridge running from the articulation of 

 dactylus to the middle of lower margin of the pahn ; dactylus 

 lamellate, externally granulate, lower margin nearly straight, 

 upper margin arcuate, basally tuberculate, tip acute and nearly at 

 right angles with occludent margin, inner surface nearly smooth, 

 somewhat concave, with a longitudinal tuberculate ridge near the 

 occludent margin. 



Balda, Brazil! Dr. Wilson. Natal! [?] Dr. Wilson (labeled G. 

 natalensis ) . South America! (Phila. Acad.) West Coast of Nicara- 

 gua ! McNiel (Smith's types in Peab. Acad.). Cayenne (Latr. 

 Edw.), Brazil (Latr. White), West Indies (White), liio Janeiro 

 (Dana). 

 The onlj' differences between Smith's tj'pes and specimens 

 from other localities, are the more crowded spines on the 

 upper border of the meros and the more sparse tuberculation of 

 the basal portion of the hand, characters surely- not of specific 

 importance. 



2. Gelasimus hetercoheles Kingsley. PI. ix, f. 2. 



Seba, Thesaurus, iii, pi. xviii, f. 8 (1758) ; Cancer vocans major 

 Herbst, Naturgesch. Krabben nnd Krebse, pb 1, f. 1 (after Seba) 

 (1790). Ocypoda heterocheles Bosc, Edit. I, "torn, ii, p. 197, 1802" 

 (teste Auct.) ; Edit. II, i, p. 250 (1828) ; Cancer vka Shaw, Natur- 

 abst's Miscellany, XIV, pi. 588 (after Seba).' Oelasimus maracoani 

 (pars> De.smarest, 1. c, p. 123 ! 1825). Oelasimus phitydartylus Edw., 

 Hist. Nat. des Crust., ii, p. 51 (1837) ; Ann. Sci. Nat , III, xviii, p. 



' I have been unable to ascertain the date of this volume. The lust 

 volume of the series bears the date 1790, the twenty-fourth (and last) 

 1813, but no others are dated ; it would, however, seem probable that the 

 fourteenth volume appeared in 1803, while the '"An X," in which Bosc's 

 first edition appeared, embraced parts of 1802 and 1803. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



144. pi. iii, f. 3 (1852) ; Saussure, Revue et Magazin de Zoologie, II, 

 V, p. 362 11853) ; Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 122 (1870). 

 Gehisimvs pi-incejis Smith, 1. c, p. 120, pi. ii, f. 10, pi. iii, f. 3-3e 

 tWlO); Report Peab. Acad., iii, p. 91 (1871); Lockington, Proc. 

 California Acad., vii, p. 145 (1877). 



Carapax transversely nearl}- flat ; meros of larger cheliped 

 rounded posteriorly, its lower margin crenulate, its upper pro- 

 duced into a broad, arcuate, laminiform, dentate crest ; carpus 

 elongate, externally tulierculate, inner margin crenulate, the inner 

 surface with one or two tubercles. Hand large, compressed, palmar 

 portion swollen, upper and lower margins tuberculate, external sur- 

 face of palm tuberculate, of thumb smooth, except a crenulated 

 ridge below. The inner surface smooth, with a tuberculate ridge 

 running from the lower margin at the base of the thumb obliquely 

 iipward and backward, and meeting a similar ridge from the base 

 of the dactylus ; occludent margins of thumb with three rows of 

 tubercles, (the middle the most prominent) and somewhat angulated 

 beyond the middle. Dactylus with the upper margin and outer 

 l)asal portion tuberculate, the occludent margin rather prominent 

 in the middle. 



Mexico! (Guerin-Meneville). Jamaica/ (Dr. Wilson) Phila. Acad. 

 Cayenne, Edw. W. Coast Nicaragua/ (McNiel, Smith's typ^s 

 Peab. Acad.). Lower California, (Lockington). Masatlan (Saus- 

 sure). 



Seba's figure represents the carapax as granulate and the front 

 rather broad (in these respects he has been followed by Herbst 

 and Shaw), otherwise his figure answers well. Bosc says that the, 

 species is black ! Smith's types agree well with the Jamaica 

 specimens which I have seen, except that the meral crest in the 

 Nicaraguan specimens is more distinctlv dentate. 

 3. Gelasinms bellator White. PI. ix, f. 3. 



Petiver, Opera, i, PI. 78, f. o (1707) ; Oelanmus bellator White, Cat^ 



logue British Museum Cnistacea, p. 36 (1847) ; (.sine de.scr.) Voyage 



of H. M. S. Samarang, Crustacea, p. 49 (1848) ; Edw., Ann. Sci. 



Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 146 (1852). 



Carapax arcuate, front but little enlarged below the eyes. 



Meros of larger cheliped posteriorly with an oblique rounded 



ridge, its upper and lower margins crenulate, the former even 



denticulate ; carpus externally polished, above granulate, inner 



margin denticulate, outside of palm and Vmsal portion of dactylus 



granulate, inside of palm granulate but without tubercular ridges 




T880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PmLADELPHIA. 131* 



except a short curved one near the oceludent margin ; thumb ex- 

 ternally margined below, its oceludent margin forming a promi- 

 nence at the distal third ; dactylus with the margins nearly 

 parallel, the oceludent one with scattered larger tubercles, tip 

 acute. 



Australia ! (Dr. T. B. Wilson) Phila. Acad. Luzon (Petiver) Phil- 

 ippines (White). 



4. Gelasimas styliferus, Edw. PI. ix, f. 4. 



GelasimuH platydactj/lus Edw., 111. Edit. Regne Animal, Crustacea, pi. 

 xviii, f . 1 a (without date). Gelasimus styliferus Fa\\v., Am. Sci.Nat. 

 Ill, xviii, p. 14"), jtl. iii, f. 3, (1832) ; Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, 

 p. 118, (1870). 



A species very near 6'. plati/dacfi/lus, but having the marginal 



crest of the arm less developed and the eye stalks terminated by 



a small stylet as in the Ocypodas (Edw.). Is possibly but a variety 



of heterochelos. 



Ouayaquil, Equador, (Edw.). 



5. Oelasimus heterophthalmas Smith. PI. \x, f. 6. 



Gelasimus heterophthalmus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad, ii, p. 116, i-l. 

 ii, f. G, pi. iii, f. 1 (I870j ; Rep. Peab. Acad. Sci. iii, p. 91 (1871). 



Meros of larger cheliped with posterior margin rounded, the 

 inferior crenulate, superior with a broad crest, carpus with the 

 upper outer surface granulate, elsewhere smooth. Hand indated. 

 basal portion of palm externally granulate, thumb punctate, with 

 an external elevated ridge. Inner surface of palm smooth, with 

 two rows of tubercles much as in G. Jictet'ocheles. Fingers com- 

 pressed, the thumb with a deep emargination at the base and a prom- 

 inent tubercle just beyond, oceludent margin of finger nearly 

 straight. 



Gulf of Fonseca, West Coast of Nicaragua ! McNiel (Smith's types 

 in Peab. Acad.i. 



This species is closely allied to G. heterocheles. When I exam- 

 ined the specimens, the prolongations of the ocular peduncles 

 described by Prof. Smith were broken off. 



6. Oelasimns heteropleurus Smith. PI. i.\, f. 6. 



Oelasimus heteropleurus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 118, pi ;i. f. 

 7, pi. iii, f. 2 (1870) ; Rep. Peab. Acad., iii, p. 71 (1871). 



Carapax but slightly convex, one side produced laterally. Oi:*- 

 eye with a stylet about as long as the cornea, similar to those 

 found in certain Ocypodee. Meros of larger chelipt'd with tlic 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



margins denticulate, the upper one produced distally into a crest, 

 cai'pus granulate above. Hand externally granulate on the basal 

 portion, the upper and lower margins denticulate; the inner sur- 

 face of the ])aliu has an oblique line of tubercles running obliquely 

 upward and backward from the lower margin at the base of the 

 thumb to near the articulation with the carpus. Fingers short, 

 compressed, the thumb with the lower margin regularly arcuate ; 

 the upper margin of dactylus nearly straight as are the occludent 

 margins of each. 



Gulf of Fonsecu I McNiel (Peab. Acad., Smith's types). 



7. Gelasimus cultrimanus White. PI. ix, f. 7. 



Gekmmus vocans Edw., Annales des Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 145, PI. 

 Ill, f. 4 (1852) ; Stimpson, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 99 (1858) ; 

 Heller, Reise der Novara, Crustacea, p. 37 (1865) ; Hilgendorf, in 

 van der Decken's Reise, p. 83 (1867) ; Alphonse Milne-Edwards, 

 Nouv. Arch, du Mus. d'Hist. Nat., ix, p. 273 (1873). Gelasimus 

 cultrimanus White, Catalogue Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 35, sine descr. 

 (1847) ; Voyage of the Samarang, Crust., p. 49 (1848). Gelasimus 

 nitidus Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust, p. 316, PI. X, f. 5 (1852j. 



Carapax smooth, arcuate. Meros of larger cheliped with an 

 oblique ridge on the upper posterior surface which gradually dis- 

 appears before the articulation with the carpus ; the inner margin 

 somewhat cristate, distally with a prominent tooth and sometimes 

 traces of a second ; carpus externally' granulate, a portion near 

 the articulation with the meros smooth, inner surface with a strong 

 spiniforra tubercle. Palmar portion of hand swollen and exter- 

 nally granulate, granules larger below. On the inner surface there 

 is an oblique tubercular crest near the loAver margin but not ex- 

 tending to it, and a second near the occludent margin. Thumb 

 with an impressed line on the outer surface, the lower margin 

 granulous, the occludent margin broadly excavate ; this excava- 

 tion is sometimes regularl}' curved, but generally shows traces of 

 a division into two sinuses ; the distal fourth bends abruptly 

 downward to meet the inferior margin. Finger granulate above 

 near the base, occludent margin nearly straight. 



Philippines? Dr. T. B. "Wilson (Phila. Acad.) ; Moreton Bay, Aus- 

 tralia! E. Wilson (Phila. Acad.); Const of Malabar ! Guerin's 

 Collection (Phila. Acad.). This specimen (labelled " Gr. crassi- 

 manus Coll. Mus.") has tlie excavation of the thumb of the larger 

 cheliped plainly divided into two parts. Ja.va, Malabar (Edw.) ; 

 Nicobars (Heller) ; Zanzibar (Hilgendorf) ; New Caledonia (A. 

 M.-Edw.). 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELI'IIIA. 141 



There is a considerabU' confusion regarding this species. Ed- 

 wards considers this as the Cancer vorans of Liniie. Linne in 

 his tenth edition p. ('.2;, 1757) quotes Rumphius, Pi. XIV, f. E. ; 

 and Catesby's Carolin.i, ii, PI. XXV. Rumphius' figure ('of a 

 si)eeinien from Amboina) represents a form with the fingers regu- 

 larl}- tapering, and resembling G. tetrngonon more nearly than any 

 other species with which I am acquainted, but the figure is not 

 accurate enough to have any systematic value. Catesby's figure 

 is the well-known Ocijpoda arenarin of North America. Linne 

 (in the Amoenitates Academici, vi, p. 416) gives a description, 

 which does not at all apply to this species, and quotes in addition 

 Marcgrave, Piso, Runii)hius, Catesby, and Seba. in the order 

 given, showing a still greater confusion. In his 12th edition, p- 

 1041, Gronovius and Petiver are added to the list, but no hints 

 showing what should be regarded as the Cancer vocans. As there 

 exists such confusion, it is impossible to apply the name vocans, 

 with certainty, to any species, and for that reason I have thought 

 it best to allow it to lapse into synonymy and take the first recog- 

 nis ible description for this si)ecies. 



8. Gelasimus marionis Destnarest. PI. ix, f. 8. 



Oelasimus marionis Desm., Consid. sur le Crust., p. 124, PI. XIII, f. 

 1 (1825) ; Edw., Ana. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 145 (1852). 



Carapax smooth, and with each margin terminated by an acute 

 angle directed forward ; an H -shaped impression on the carapax. 

 Ocular peduncles slightly enlarged at the extremity, and without 

 a terminal point. Inferior border of the orbit crenulate. Right 

 hand greatly larger than the left, greatly compressed, basally 

 granulate ; finger straight, its sides smooth, its occludent margin 

 granulate ; thumb arcuate below, with its internal border broadly 

 excavate in the middle, and armed with fine teeth. Length, 8 

 lines; breadth, one inch (Desmarest). 



Manilla (Desra.\ Malabar (Edw. \ 



I have not seen an}- form corresponding to this description or 

 figure. 



9. Gelasimus dabins Stimpson. 



Oelasimus dubius Strn., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1858, p. 99. 

 Carai)ax and front as in (7. cultrimanus. Inferior margin of 

 orbit crenulate, externally angulate. Meros of larger cheliped 

 spinulose, hand stout, externally granulate or tuberculate ; in- 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



terimlly with crests as in (f. cultrhnanns, but less prominent. 

 Digits rather broad, externally sulcate; inner margin nearly 

 straight, irregularly dentate, two or three teeth larger than the 

 others (Stm.). 



Loo Choo (Stm.). 

 10. Gelasimus forcipatus White. PI. ix, f. 9. 



Gelasitnus forcipatus White, Catalogue Brit. Mus. Crust., p. J56, sine 

 descr. (1847) ; Voyage Samaiang Crust., p. 50 (1848). Oelnsimun 

 eoarctatus Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 146, PI. Ill, f. 6 

 (1852; ; Heller, Crustaeeen Sud. Europas, p. 100 (1863) ; Alph. 

 Mihie-Edwards, Xouv, Arch, du Mus. d'Hist. Nat., IX, p. 273, PI. 

 XII, f. 4 (1873). 



Carapax convex, narrowed behind. Meros of larger cheliped 

 externally granulate, its margins denticulate. Carpus granulate, 

 inner margin produced but without a prominent tooth. Palm 

 externally granulate, its upper border slightly margined, its lower 

 tube'culate ; on the inside a few tubercles in a curved line near 

 the base of the dactylus, and an oblique line from the lower 

 margin runs up to the articulation with the carpus, dactylus 

 granulate at the base, otherwise the hand and fingers are smooth. 

 Thumb regularly tapering, with an external impressed line, its 

 oecludent margin regularl}- arcuate, with generall}' a prominent 

 tubercle near the middle. Dactylus with a prominent distal 

 dentate lobe. 



[?] Odessa! Gueriu (Phil. Acad.). Philippines! Drs. Wilson and 

 Burroughs (Phil. Acad.). Australia! E. Wilson (Phil. Acad.). 

 Borneo (Adams and White). Odessa (Edw. ). New Caledonia 

 (A. M.-Edw.). 



I have united these two nominal species from an actual com 

 parison of specimens. In the collection of Guerin-Meneville now 

 in the possession of the Philadelphia Academy, is a specimen 

 labelled " Gelasimus coarctatvs Edw\, Cat. Mus., Paris, Odessa,"' 

 and which was probably one of the original specimens which was 

 the foundation of Edward's description. I am strongly inclined 

 to doubt of the authenticity of the locality "Odessa," as I have 

 been unable to find any other authority than that of Edwards. 

 Marcussen in his Fauna of the Black Sea (Archiv. fiir Natur- 

 geschichte xxxiii, pp. .3.58-363, 1807) does not mention it. His 

 subsequent paper and that of Uljanin, I have not seen. Ileller 

 merely quotes from Milne-Edwards. 




I880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Hj 



11. Oelasimas aronatas De Ila&n. PI. ix, f. 10. 



Ocypode y Oelanimus) arcuata De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crustacea, p. 

 53, ri. VII, f. 2 (1835). Gelusimnn arcuatus M.-Edw., Ann. Sci. 

 Nat. Ill, xviii, p. 146 (1852) ; (?) Krauss, slid Afiikanische Cnsa- 

 taceen, p. 39 (1843) ; A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 273, 



(1873;. 



Carapax with sides carinate, carina acute, scarcely granulate ; 

 inferior margin of orbit granulate. Meros of larger cheliped, 

 above concave, below flat ; internally with an acute granular ridge. 

 Carpus externally convex, above flat, hand twice the breadth of 

 tlie carapax , fingers compressed, smooth, externally longitudinally 

 .sulcate (De Haan). 



Japan (De Haan). iVew Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). [?] Natal Baij 

 (Krauss). 



12. Gelasimus tetragonon Ruppell. PI. \\, f. 11. 



Seba Thesaurus, iii, PI. XIX, f. 15. ? Cancer serratanYovskzX, Descr. 

 Aninialium, etc., p. 87 (1775). Cancer tetragonon Herbst 1. c., i, p. 

 257, PI. XX, f. 110 (1790). GelnHiinus tetragonon Ruppell, Beschrei- 

 bung und Abbildung 24 Krabbeu des rothes Meeres, p. 25, PI. Y. 

 f. 5 (1830) ; Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 52 (1837) ; Aun. Sci. Nat. Ill, 

 xviii, p. 147, PI. Ill, f. 9 (1859) ; White, Cat. B. M. Crust, p. 36 

 (1847) ; Guerin, Voyage Coquille, p. 10 (1839') ; Heller Reise der 

 Novara, p. 37 (1868) ; Hilgendorf in van der Decken, p. 84 (1867; ; 

 Kossman Reise nach rothen Meeren, p. 52 (1877 1. Oelasimut 

 duperrey i Giieriu, 1. c., PI. I (1826) ; Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex. Crust., p. 

 317 (1852). Gelasimus desjardinii Guerin, MS. Gelasimus tetra- 

 gonon var spinicarpa Kossmann, 1. c, p. 52. Kossman gives a 

 reference to a paper by Poulson, but as the title is written in Russian 

 I have not been able to verify it. 



Carapax strongly arcuate, front not expanded below the eyes. 

 Meros of the larger cheliped with the upper margin terminating 

 distally in a strong spine, carpus smooth, the inner margin acute, 

 its basal portion sometimes expanded into a strong tooth. Hand 

 compressed, externally finely granulate, a shallow pit with coarse 

 punctic near the base of the thumb; internally granulate but 

 without tubercqlar ridges ; thumb with two prominences on the 

 distal half; the finger regularly tapering. 



Mauritius! Dr. Wilson, Guerin's Collection ; Tongatabou ! Wilkes 

 Expedition; Tahiti! A. Ganett ; Sandwich Is ! Dr. W. N. Jones 



' The title page of the volume bears the date 18:^0, but the introduction 

 to the Crustacea and Aiachuida is dated " 15 Novembre, 1838," so that it 

 is probable that the volume did not appear complete until 1839. Tlie 

 plates bear date 1826. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(Phila. Acad.); Taluti and Sandwich Is.! A. Ganett (Peab, 

 Acad.); Red Sea and Nicobar h. (Heller); Zanzibar (llilgeu- 

 dorf I ; Bourbon (Edwards) ; A'ejc Caledonia (A. Milne-Edwards). 



13. Gelasimus acmus S-m. 



Oelasimus acutua Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 99. 



Carapax narrowed behind, anterolateral angles prominent, acute, 

 marginal line distinct. Front narrow, not constricted, inferior 

 margin of orbit crenulate, externally acute, internal suborbital 

 lobe convex ; a crest on the sub-hepatic region parallel to the in- 

 ferior margin of the orbit, the included surface smooth. Larger 

 hand coarsel}' granulate, a tubercular ridge on the inner surface. 

 Fingers not longer than the palm, externally sulcate, inner margin 

 dentate, median tooth larger, but no sub-terminal tooth (Stimpson). 



Macao (Stimpson).. 



14. GelasimuB forceps Milne-Edwards. PI. ix, f. 12. 



Gelasimus forceps Edw., Hist. Nat. des Crust., ii, p. 52 (1837) ; An- 

 nales des Sciences Naturelles, 1X1 serie, tome xviii, p. 148, PI. Ill, f. 

 11 (1852) ; White Cat. Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 36 (1847). 



Carapax narrowed behind, lateral angles prominent, acute; 



orbits below^ with two denticulate margins. Meros and carpus 



smooth, the lower margin of the meros crenulate, upper cristate, 



finely dentate ; hand smooth or indistinctly granulate, fingers 



long, slender, finely denticulate, the thumb with a distal lobe 



(Edwards). 



Australia (Edwards, White). 



I have not forms referable to the two foregoing species. 



15. Gelasimus longidigitum (nov.). PI. is, f. 13. 



Closely allied io forceps in shape of carapax, orbits below with 

 ;a simple smooth margin. Meros and carpus smooth, the inner 

 margin of the carpus acute, crenulate. Basal portion of the hand 

 ■externally obscurely granulate ; internally with an oblique tuber- 

 cular ridge, and a few tubercles near the base of the fingers. 

 Fingers compressed, long, finely denticulate, and narrower near 

 the base than at the middle point. 



Moreton Bay, Australia ! E. Wilson. 



16. Gelasimus smithii (nov.). PI. ix, f. 14. 



Carapax gibbous, front narrow ; meros with a strong, oblique 

 ridge on the upper outer surface, the inner upper margin produced 

 into a prominent A'ertical crest. Carpus externally nearly smooth, 




1880.] NATURAL 8CIENCES OF PHI LAltELPIII A. 145 



the iniur margin sliglitl}' produced and di'iiticulate. Palm exter- 

 nally uramilate above, smooth below, its upper margin granulate 

 and indi^tineily indicated by an impressed line on the outer sur- 

 face, and its inner surface smooth, without tubercular ridges, 

 except one at the base of the fingers. Fingers long, slender, 

 slightly compressed and regularly tapering, the extremity of the 

 dactylus somewhat expanded and excavate. 



Natal! E. Wilson (Phihv. Acad.). 



Named in honor of my friend Prof. S. 1. Smith, of Yale College, 

 who has monographed the American species of this genus. 



17. Gelasimus urvillei M.-Edw. PI. i.x. f. 15. 



Gelasimus urvillei M.-Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii p. 148, PI. Ill, 

 f. 10 (1852). 



Resembles closel}^ G. forceps^ but has the medio-frontal sulcus 

 nearly linear, and the fingers shorter, the anterior border of the 

 meros of the larger cheliped obtuse and granulate (M.-p]dw.t. 



Vanikoro (M.-Edw. \ 



18. Gelasimus dassnmieri .M.-Edw. PI. x, f. 16. 



Qelasimus dussumieri M.-Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, PI. IV, f. 12, 

 (18521? Hilgendorf in van der Decken's Reise in Ost Afrika, 

 Crustaceen, p. 84, PI. IV, f. 1 (1867) ; Alph. M -Edw., Nouv. Arch, 

 du Mas. d'Hist. Nat. IX, p. 274 (1873). 



Resembles closel}'^ G. urvillei, but the accessory sub-orbital lobe 

 is less marked, the median sulcus of the front entirely linear and 

 the anterior border of the meros of the larger cheliped denticu- 

 late. Chela very large, G. ruhripea is closely allied, but appears 

 to be distinguished by the form of the fingers of the larger hand, 

 the larger tubercles of the carpus, etc., (Ex. auct.). 



Malabar and Snmarang (Edw.) ; New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.) ; 

 Zanzibar ( Hilgendorf j. 



19. GelasimuB rnbripes .Facq. and Lucas. PI. x, f. 17. 



Gelasimus rubripes Jacqninot and Lucas, Voyage des Astrolabe et Zelee 

 Crustacea, p. 66, PI. VI, f. 2 (1853) ; Heller, Reise der Novara Crus- 

 taceen, p. 38 (1867). 



Orbits granulate above and below, carpus of larger cheliped 

 with the external portion granulate, its margins finely denticulate. 

 Hand prominently granulate, internally smooth except fine granu- 

 lations at the origin of the thumb; below strongly dentate, linger 

 smooth except at the base where it is granulate; the inner margin 

 of the thumb with three larj^e teeth, the intervals between which 




146 TROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



are liiu'ly ilenticulate. Tliumb smooth below its inner margin 



with several rows of granulations and a prominent tooth near the 



middle (J. et L.). 



Unknown (J. and L.) Nicobar» (Ilcller). 



20. Gelasimus signatns Hess. PI. x. f. IS. 



Gelasimus signatus Hess, Archiv fin- Naturgescbichte, xxxi, p. 146, PI. 

 VI, f. 6 (1865;. 



" Front between the e3es not so small as a G. variatus^ eheliped 

 one and a half times the breadth of the body; arm, carpus and 

 hand bright red, fingers white. Arm below with two rows of 

 pearly tubercles, fingers with an elevation at the middle of the 

 inner border, distally arcuate and pointed " (Hess). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess . 



21. Gelasimus crassipes AVhitc. PI. x, f. 19. 



Geldsirmis crassipes White, Cat. B. M. Crust., p. 36, sine descr. ; 

 Adams and White, Voyage Samarang Crustacea, p. 49 (1848). 



? G. brevipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xvlii, p. 146 (1852). 



" Carapace very much arched, suddenly narrowed behind, front 

 with a lobe without narrow stalk. Four hind pairs of legs thicker 

 and stronger than in the other species " (Ad. and White). 



Philippine Islands (White). 



There have been described three other species * belonging to 

 tlie narrow-fronted section, one of which has been made the type 

 of the genus Acantliojilax by Milne Edwards. A fourth species 

 from Bahia, Brazil, is in the collection of the Philadelphia 

 Academv. So far as 1 am aware these are all females and are 

 represented by only a single specimen each, and as I am strongly 

 inclined to consider them tlie females of well-known forms I omit 

 descriptions of them. 



* Gelasimus insignis Smith, Trans. Conn. Aoad., ii, p. 126 (1870). 

 Acanthoplaxinsignis'Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 151, PI. IV, 

 f. 23 (1852) ; Archives des Museum, vii, p. 162, PI. II, f. 1 (1854).— 

 Chili (Edw.). 



Gelasimus ornatus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 125, PI. II, f. 9, 

 PI. lit, f. 5 (1870) ; Report Peabody Acad. Science, iii, p. 9^ (1871). - 

 West Coast Nicaragua! ilcNiel (Peab. Acad.). 



Acanthoptax exeellens Gerstiicker, Archiv fur Naturgescbichte, xxii, 

 p, 138 1 1856). -No locality. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPOIA. 147 



§ B. Front broad between the orbitif. 

 *■ Male abdomen seven-jointed. 



22 Gelasimus vocator Mirtens. PI. x, f. 20. 



Cancer vocator Herbst, Bd. iii, h. iv, p. 1, PI. LIX, f. 1 (1804). 

 Oelasi/nus vocans Edw., Hist. Xat. Crust., ii, p. 54 (1837); 111. Edit. 



Regne Animal, Crustacea, PI. XVIII, f. 1 (no date) ; White, Cat. B. 



M. Crust., p. 36 (sine synon.), 1847. 

 Gelanmus vocans > parsi Gould, lavertebrata of Mass, p. 325 (1841). 

 OelnS'/nu8 vocans var. a Dekay, X. Y. Fauna Crustacea, p. 14, PI. VI, 



f. 10 (1844). 

 Gelasimus palustr is 'EiA'w., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 14S, Pi. I\', f. 



13 ! 18.52 ; Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum Nat. Hist., p. G2 ^1860 ; 



Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 127 il870t. 

 Gelasimus pugillator Leconte, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 



18.55. p. 403. 

 Gelasimus brevifrons Stimps., Ann. N. Y. Lyceum, vii, p. 229 (18B0) ; 



Smith, Ti'ans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 131 1 1870; ; Lockington, Proc. 



Cal. Acad., vii, p. 147 (1877). 

 Gelasimus sp. Saussure, Memoirs Societe Phys. et Hist. Nat. Geneve, 



xiv, p. 440 (1853). 

 Gelasimus vocator Martens, Archiv fiir Xaturgesch., xxxv, p 1 (1869 ; 



xxxviii, p. 104 (1872) ; Kiugsley, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1879, p. 400. 

 Gelasimus pugnax, mordax et rapax Smith, Trans. Conu. Acad., ii, pp. 



131, 135, 134, Pis. II, f. 1, 2, 3, IV, 2, 3, 4 (1870 . 

 Gelasimus affinis Streets, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1872, p. 131. 

 Ge'asiinus crenulatus Lockington, Proc. Cal. Acad., vii, p. 149 1877i. 



Carapax smooth, meros of the larger cheliped with its margins 

 denticulate or tiiberculate, carpus externally granulate, internally 

 with an oblique tubercular ridge. Hand tuberculatc, its inner 

 -surfoce with a ridge running up from lower margin to carpal 

 groove; in front of this are scattered granules. Thumb straight, 

 extremity obliquely truncate, finger v<^trongly arcuate, longer than 

 the thumb. 



East Coast of America, from Cape Cod! to Para, Brazil! West Indie*! 

 &\\A Aspinwall ! West Coast of Mexico ! Panama! 



The localities from which I have examined specimens number 

 over thirty and embrace several hundred specimens. I tind in 

 the Guerin Collection two specimens from Mauritius which closely 

 re.'^emble Oub:»n forms. 



This is, without much doubt, the species intended by Herbst ; 

 Edw;\rds quotes the Cancer palustris of Sloane as this species, 

 but aside from the fact that his History of Jamaica was published 

 in 1725, and his nauie is therefore ante-Linnean (and is also poly- 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



nomial), Sloane gives not the slightest description, but says that 

 it agrees perfectly with the figure of Marcgrave which is the G. 

 vmracoani of authors. I think that any one studying as I have 

 large serit-s of specimens, will agree with me in uniting these 

 various forms under one specific name, as the characters which 

 separate them are variable and not of specific importance. Prob- 

 ably G. minax should also be included here, as suggested by 

 Professor Smith. 



23. Gelasimus minax LeConte. PI. x, f. 21. 



Gelasimus minux LeConte, Proc. Pliila. Acad., vii, p. 403 (1855) ; 

 Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., 11, p. 128, PI. II, f. 4, PI. IV, f. 1 

 (1870); Rep. U. S. Fish Commission for 1871-72, p. 545 (1875); 

 Kingsley, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1879. p. 400. 



Carapax strongh' arcuate longitudinally, the branchial regions 

 granulate anteriorly'. Meros of larger chelipeds, with the upper 

 and lower margins tuberculate as is the upper portion of carpus ; 

 inner margin of carpus with prominent tubercles, its inner surface 

 with an oblique tubercular ridge. Palm cristate above, externally 

 with large depressed tubercles above, smaller below, inner surface 

 also tuberculate and with a ridge of tubercles running obliquely 

 up from the lower margin at the base of the thumb to the depres- 

 sion into which the carpus folds, and a second curved one near the 

 base of the fingers. Fingers long, slender, regularly tapering, 

 finger longer than the thumb and distally strongly arcuate. 



Beesley's Point, Dennis Creek, N. J. ! S. Ashmead (Phila. Acad., 

 LeConte's types) ; Blvffton, 8. C. ! Dr. Mellichamp (Peab. Acad.) ; 

 Northam'pton Co., Va. ! H. E. Webster (Union College;; New 

 Haven, Conn., and St. Avgustine, Fla. (Smlthj. 



24. Gelasimus annulipes M.-Edw. PI. x, f. 22. 



Gelagirnus annulipes M.-Edw., Hist. Nat. Ciiist., II, p. 55, PI. 18, f. 

 10-13 11837); White, Cat. B. M. Crust., p 36 (1847i ; Edw., Ann. 

 Bel. Nat. Ill, xviil, p. 149, PI. IV, f. 45 (1852) ; Dana, U. S. Ex. 

 Ex. Crust., 317 (1852) ; Heller, Relse der Novara, Crustacea, p. 38 

 (1867,; Hilgendorf in Baron Decken's Relse, p. 85 (1867) ; Monats- 

 berichte Berliner Akademie, 1878, p. 803 ; Kossmanu. Relse nach 

 rothen Meeren, p. 53 (187)) ; Spence Bate In .1. K. Lord's Natural- 

 ist in Vancouver. Gelasimus macrodactylus Edwards and Lucas in 

 D'Orbigny's Voyage, 27, Pi. XI, f. 3 (1843) ; Nicollet in Gay's Hist. 

 Chili Zool., ill, 165 (1840); Edw., Ann. Scl. Nat., Ill, xviil, 149 

 (1852). Gelasimus lacteus Krauss, Sud. Af. Oru.st., p. 39 teste Hil- 

 gendorf;. Gelasimus pulchellus ^iiTCi^son, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, 

 p. 100. Gelasimus annulipes v&T alMii: ana ^o&^vMima. I.e.. Gelasi- 

 mus rectilatus Locklngton, Proc. California Acad. Sol., p. 148 

 (1877). 




1S80.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Carapax transversely nearly flat ; inferior margin of orbit 

 orenulate. Mcros of larger eheliped smooth, angles rounded, 

 carpus the same with a few obsolete granulations on the upper 

 surface. Hand smooth, sub-niarginate below, an oblique row of 

 tubercles on the inner surface, running up and back from near the 

 lower margin half way to articulation with the carpus, and two 

 similar curved lines near the articulation of the dactylus. Thumb 

 regularl}' tapering, a prominent tubercle near the middle, extremity 

 sub-excavate. Dactylus distally strongly curved, extending 

 slightly beyond the thumb. 



Australia! E. Wilson; Singapore! Dr. McCartee (Phila. Acad.); 

 Zanzibar! (C. Cooke) "N. W, Boundary Survey, A. Campbell, 

 Commr., Dr. C. B. Kenuerly" ! (Peabody Acad.) ; Seas of India 

 and Asia (Edw. "l; Ceylon, Nicobars Madras (Pleller) ; Afozam- 

 biqne Inhambeni (Hilgendorf ) ; Pondicherry (White) ; Valparaiso 

 (Edw. and Lucas) ; Vancouver (Bate) ; Lower California (Lock- 

 ington) ; Tahiti [^im.) ; Red Sea (Kossmann). 



25. Gelasimns lacteus DeHaan. PI. x, f. 28. 



Ocypode [Gelasimun lacteus DeHaan, Fauna Japouica Crust., p. 54, 

 PI. XV, f. 5 (1835). Qelasimus lacteus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., III. 

 xviii. l.-iO, PI. IV, f. 16 (1852) ; Sim.. Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, 100 ; 

 Miers, Proc. Zool. Soc., 1879, p. 36. 



Carapax longitudinally strongly arcuate, transversely nearly 

 llat; anteio-lateral angles prominent; meros of larger eheliped 

 externallv granulate, a constriction of the upper margin near the 

 articulation with the carpus, lower orenulate or even denticulate. 

 Carpus externally smooth, inner edge acute denticulate ; hand ex- 

 ternall}' finely granulate, above more plainly so; a crenulated 

 ridge near the inner lower margin and one or two near the fingers. 

 Fingers elevated, strongly compressed, the thumb suddenly nar- 

 rowed near the apex. 



Japan! E. Wilson ; Pondicherry ! Dr. T. B. Wilson (Phila. Acad, i ; 

 Japan (Dellaani ; China (Edw. Stm.). 



28. GelasimuB splendidus Stm. 



Gelaslmus splendidus Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 99. 



Inferior margin of orbit orenulate, externall}' rounded. Larger 



liand nearl}- smooth, internalh' with an oblique tubercular crest. 



Crest at the base of the fingers nearl}' obsolete. Fingers long, 



slender, slightly denticulate. Thumb with the apex excavate 



(Stm.). 



Hong Kong (Stm. I, 




1;>0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



1 have not soon this species; it, however, appears to be Aory 

 near onmilipes. 



27. Gelasimus minor Owen. 



Gelasi/nus minor Owen, in Bcechey's Voyage of the Blossom ; Ap- 

 pendix ; Crustacea, p. 76, PI. XXIV, f. 2 (1831). 



Oahu, Sandwich Is. (Owen). 



This species is ver}- near the annuHpes of Edwards, the only 

 ditforence being the larger teeth of the fingers of the cheliped. 



28. Gelasimus triangularis A. M.-Edw. 



Gelasimus trianguluri^ A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., IX, j). 275, 

 (1873). 

 Is distinguished from cuUrimanu8,forcij)atus, arcuatus, tetra- 

 gonon, dussiimieri, perplcrus et latreillei by the carapax greatly 

 larger in front and smaller behind ; the lateral angles are spini- 

 form and directed strongly forward, the front between the eyes i« 

 large and rounded. Larger cheliped externallj^ smooth, palmar 

 portion long and proximally inflated. Inner surface with a gran- 

 ular ridge, inner margin of fingers dentate, finger a little longer 

 than the thumb. This species is allied to G. minor by the form 

 of the hand, but is distingnished by the more triangular carapax 



(A. M.-E.). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw. i. 



29. Gelasimus gaimardi Edw. PI. x, f. 23. 



Gelasimus gaimardi Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii. loO, PL IV, f. 17, 

 (1852) ; Heller Eeise Novara, Crnst., p. 38 (18G7). 



Very near anniih'jjes, but having the front more prolonged and 

 more rounded below and the external [internal ?] crest of the hand 

 obtuse and not denticulate, resembling that of G. latreillei (FAv*). 



Tongaiabou (Edw.) ; Tohiii {Heller ). 



30. Gelasimus panamensis Stm. PI. x, f. 24. 



Gelasimus pavamensis Stm., Ann. Lye, VII, p. 63 (1860); Smith, 

 Trans. Conn. Acad., II, 137, PI. IV, f. 5 (1870'. 



Carapax depressed . A nterior and inferior margins of the raeros 

 of the larger cheliped crenulated, posterior rounded. Carpus very- 

 short, smooth ; hand smooth externally and intenially, fingers 



regularly tapering. 



Gulf of Fonseca ! McNiel Peab. Acad. !. 



31. Gelasimus pugillator. 



Ocypoda pugillator Bosc, Hist. Nat. Crust , Edit. I, i, p. 197, 1802 3, 

 (teste Auct.) Edit. II, i, p. 250(1828) ; Latr. Hist. Crust, et Ins. Ti, 

 47 (1803-4\ Ocypoda pugillator (pars. \ Say, Jour. Phila. Acad. I, 




]880j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPrriA 151 



71 and 44y (1817-18). Gelmimnn pugillator Latr., Nouv. Diet, d'- 

 Hist. Nat. Edit. II, p. 519 (1817; ; Desraarest Consid. 123 (182rj), 

 Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. torn. cit. p. PI. IV, f. 14 (1852) ; Stm. Ann. 

 N. Y. Lye. VII, p. 62 (1859) ; Smith Trans. Conn. Acad. II, p, 1.36, 

 PI. IV, f. 7 (1870) ; Rep. U. S. Fish Coram. 1871-72, p. 545 (1875,.. 

 Gelasimus vocam fpars,), Gould, Invertebrata of Massaehusetts, p. 

 325 (1841) ; Dekay, N. Y. Fauna, Crust., 14, PI. VI. f. 9 il844i. 



Oanipax polished, swollen, nearl}- quadrate. Meros of th«^ 

 larger eheliped with the outer surface rugose, upper and lower 

 margins crenulate. Carpus granulate externally, its inner margin 

 acute; hand inflated, the basal portion granulate and margined 

 ;ibove and below ; inner surface rounded, granulate, but without 

 any trace of a tuberculate ridge except one formed b}' a continua- 

 tion of the inner margin of the thumb. Thumb nearly straight, 

 a ridge on the outer surface, a large tubercle near the middle of 

 the inner margin, the extremit}^ obliquely truncate. The finger is 

 longer than the thumb, regularly tapering and distally strongly 

 arcuate. There is a specimen in the collection of the Philadelphia 

 Academy from Surinam which appears to be intermediate, in the 

 characters of the hand, between this and G. vocator. The fingers 

 are shorter, the granules on the outside of the palm much more 

 prominent than in typical pugillator^ and there are traces, though 

 faintly indicated of a tubercular ridge on the inside of the 

 palm. 



New Jersey ! T. Bay, Wm. Wood ; Manatee River f S. Ashraead ; 

 Mauritius ! Guerin's Collection ; Greenpoint, L. I. ! S. F. Baird : 

 Boston IJarbor! .J. H. Slack (Phila. Acad.) ; Nantucket and Key 

 West, Fla. ! A. S. Packard ; Bluffton, S. G. ! Dr. Mellichamp ; 

 Savannah, Ga. ! no collector's name given (Peab. Acad.) ; Beaufort, 

 N. G.! H. E, Webster (Union College); New Haven, Conn., Eg- 

 mont Key and Si. Augustine, Fla. (Smith) ; South Cnrolina and 

 Cayenne (Edw.), 



S2. Gelasimus chlorophthalmus Edw. PI. x, f. 26, 27. 



Gelasimus chlorophthalmus Edw , Hist. Nat. Crust. II. 54 (1837) ; Ann. 

 Sci. Nat. torn. cit. 150, PI. IV, f. 19 (1852); McLeay in Smith"*-- 

 Zool. 8. Africa, p. 64 (1838) ; White, Cat. B. M. Crust., p. :]6 1847 : 

 Guerin, Iconog. Crust., PI. IV, f. 3 ; Ililgcndorf in Deckon's Reis<' 

 Crust, p. 85 (1S67); Monatsberichte Berlin Akad., 1878, p. 803; 

 Gelasimus mnrionis Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 53 (1837) ; Gelasi- 

 mus perplerus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. torn, cit., 150, PI. IV., f. 1*^ 

 (1852) ; Heller, Novara Crust, p. 38, PI. V, f. 4 (1867) ; A. M.-Ed^*. 

 Nouv. Arch. Mas. IX, 274 (1873 1 ; teste Hilgendorf. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Carapftx arcuate. Larger hand small, joints all smooth, fingers 

 short, frequently shorter than the palm ; the ridges on the inside 

 of the palm either smooth or obsoletely granulate ; fingers dentic- 

 ulate, regularly arcuate. 



Island nf Boiirou ! Gueriu's Collection (Phila. Academy); Mauritius 

 (Edw., White ; Zanzibar, Mozambique and Mascarenes (Hilj^endorf ); 

 Java (Edw. ), Ceylon and Madras (Heller ; Neio Caledonia (A. M. 

 Edw,). 



I also understand that Maillard found this species at Reunion, 

 but I have not seen the work. 



Hilgendorf from an actual comparison of specimens says that 

 the perplexus and chlorophthalmus of Edwards are the same. The 

 G. stenodactylus of Lockington (Proc. California Acad., vii, p. 

 148, 1877), from West Coast of Lower California, would appear 

 from the description and a rough figure of the hand sent me by 

 the author to be near this species ; it certainly is not stenodactylus 

 of Edwards and Lucas. 



33. Gelasimus subcylindricua Stimpsou. PI. x, f. 29. 



Oelasiaius subcyllndricus Stimpson, Ann. N. Y. Lye, vii, p. 63 (1859); 

 Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 137, PI. IV, f. 6 (1870j, 



Carapax obscurely granulate. Margins of meros of larger 

 cheliped granulous. Hand internall}'^ without tubercular ridge 

 except two or three parallel curved rows near the base of the 

 fingers, externally granulate. Fingers closely resembling those 

 of G. vocator^ the common east coast form (Smith). 



Matamoras on the Rio Grande (Smith, Stra.). 



34. Gelasimus latreillei E Iw. PI. x, f. 31. 



Gelasimus latreillei Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 150, PI. IV, f. 

 20 (1852) ; A. M. Edw , Nouv. Arch. Mus., ix (1873). 



Carapax smooth, lateral angles far behind the front. Greater 

 cheliped smooth ; meros with the upper and posterior margins 

 rounded, the upper ending in a prominent tubercle, the lower 

 crenulate and prominent. Inner upper margin of carpus minutely 

 crenulate, the others rounded. Hand cristate above, externally 

 microscopically granulate, internallj^ with a smooth ridge near 

 the lower margin, no tubercles present ; fingers slender, slightly 

 compressed, regularly arcuate, with fine tuberculations on the 

 occludent margins, the extremity of the thumb subexcavate. 



Philippines / Dr. T. B. Wilson (Phila. Academy ; Isle of Borabora 

 (Edw.); New Caledonia (A. M. Edw.). 






.\>/^//>/- /y K 



l-Jl Jaru/imt J.tAjijtoni {A.et>MJ. J2^lS Atlit/iiri<i />r,>.rtm,i AffJZj. 

 J(> All. a/^>«p,ipi7/^sa (/>.'. 17. Ad. pa/'i/l<tl. Ji Iti I.,ini<f/i./ . n:iirt<;if,i. (Jf). 





" J 



^^^ Avt' O, 



<?-Jl.^d <Mopap,J/<,sa (D.). IS -Mi. ./.>,„,/„.,/. '^.//^ J,', ,y ' 





J)a/ls A'xp/' ,/i ^A>.yji„ //'/Yir.^rJ.jWS, /-/,^/,„/ , y/i^io. /// / yudU>r J'f A7 



/ J 1,:rnf/i,>,/ /•lA'.v.i ^ Jf . lO - 12 /. . rn»ruit/,t .'.' 



.>' V /.,i/iir-//t</ /'i/<t/»r//<zta ,'£■■. J3- 14 J- T'tirittn.T . Ji 



iJi . All . j>a<'t/if<t . Ji 





J -J/'. l,;in//i,:f,-ri.\- r>i/,:r,t .// n 





,. . ,'! /4 /7i/,-ni,',f /Kr//t fi /.; JO. rr-f/'.i tAintt/fr.i V . 







2-4- (7ir. J),t/A . 7i. J-J,i (Vir ( 'ir/f/i,ri.r . A' /d Ac ,;tfrtt/*-.r,<n.t 



I" —2i> 7'ri»t>ti ni,></r.tt<t . fi 21 ::'J. 7'r r/,it'r</fr,t 1/ 



1 I r 





/>,t//.r />/'/ ifiul/a^i^ 



I'roc. .l.X. 'S. r/ula^. /980 . 17/ Vu^i^r M J7' 







J2—IS Af>h<-/<ft/ Anti// . /i /O -V /?'///< //..//'.>//t ..¥.1 





1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIII A. 153 



35. Gelasimus tangieri Eydoux. PI. x, f. 30. 



Geldsimus tangieri Eydoux, Magazin de Zoologic, 18.35, clvii, 1^1. XVII: 

 Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., 1852, p. 151, PI. IV, f. 21; Heller, frustaceeii 

 des siidlichen Europas, p. 101 (180;3j. 



Carapax transversely nearl}- flat, the sides of the branchial 

 regions strongly arcuate ; above everywhere granulate ; lower 

 margin of orbit bimarginate. Meros of larger cheliped externally 

 roughened, the upper margin produced into an arcuate crest 

 which is fringed with hairs, the lower margin with two rows of 

 tubercles. Carpus elongate, externally with prominent tubercles, 

 an oblique ridge on the inner surface with a slender obtuse spine 

 at about the middle. Palm margined above, and armed with 

 spiniform tubercles, extei'nally with depressed tubercles, inferior 

 margin denticulate to the tip of the thumb ; internally a row of 

 tubercles near the base of the fingers, a second runs obliquely 

 upward from the lower margin, meeting a third running backward 

 from the articulation of the finger, elsewhere internally smooth. 

 Fingers elevated, strongly compressed. Dact3'lus with the upper 

 margin and outer basal surface tuberculate ; the rest of the outer 

 surface finely granulate. Occludent margins of both fingers with 

 three rows of tubercles, the margin of the finger regularly- arcuate, 

 that of the thumb with a prominence near the middle. Meral 

 joints of the ambulator}'^ feet denticulate above and below. 



Tangier! Guerin's Collection (Eydoux's Types); West Africa! (Du- 

 chaillu); [.?] Bahia ! E. Wilson (Phila. Acad, i; Cadiz and Coasts of 

 Morocco (Edwards). 



Edwards' figure is very poor. 



36. Gelasimus perlatus Herklots. PI. x, f. 25. 



Gelasimus perlatus Herklots, Additamenta ad Faunam, p. 16 (1851 ; 

 Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 151 (1852); IIilj,'endorf, Monats- 

 berichte Berlin. Akad., 1878, p. 806. 



Carapax arcuate in both directions, al)ove with patches of 

 granules more prominent on the anterolateral portions. Laravr 

 cheliped much smaller than is usual in the genus. Meros granu- 

 late, the posterior margin rounded, the anterior produced in an 

 arcuate crest; carpus and hand externally granulate. Hand 

 cristate above, internally without tubercular ridges, fingers com- 

 pressed. 



Guinea! E. Wilson (Phila. Academy); Boutry, West Coist of Afric,* 

 (Herklots); Loando, Chinchoxo, Liberiii. (Ilily^endorf . 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



This species is closely allietl to tangicri, but diflers in the pro- 

 portionately smaller cheliped -without tubercular ridges on the 

 inner surface and in the more sparse tuberculation of the carapax. 



* * Male Abdomen five-jointed. 



37. Gelasimus stenodactylus Edw. et Lucas. PI. x, f. SS-tSS. 



G lasimus stenodactylus Edw. and Liicas, in D'Oi-bigny's Voyage 

 Crust, p. 26, PI. XI, f. 2 (1843) ; Nicollet in Gay's Hist, of Chili, 

 Zoologie iii, p. 105 (1849) ; Edw. Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii, 149 

 (1852). Oelasimtis gibbo^us Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., II, p. 141, 

 PI. II, f. 11, PI. IV, f. 8 (1870), Lockington, 1. c. Gelasimus lepto- 

 •dactylus et poeyi Guerin MS, 



•Carapax smooth, transversely flat, the regions strongly gibbous. 

 Meros and carpus of larger cheliped elongate, meros smooth, its 

 angles rounded, carpus externally unconspicuously granulate, its 

 inner margin acute denticulate. Hand externally smooth or 

 granulate, a tubercular ridge on the inside of the palm, running 

 obliquely from the lower margin to the groove in which the carpus 

 folds. Fingers much longer than the palm, internally denticulate. 



Mexico ! Cuba! Brazil! Guerin's Collection (Phila. Acad.) ; Gulf 

 of Fonseca! McNiel (Peab. Acad.) ; Gulf of California! W. N. 

 Lockington (Brown University) ; Valparaiso (Edw. and Luc). 



Of the following species I can say but little. I have not seen 

 specimens which would answer to the descriptions and figures, 

 while the descriptions are so meagre that I cannot decide regard- 

 ing their aflflnities. 



38. Gelasimus variegatus Heller, Verhandlung der Zool. Bot. Gesellschaft, Wien, 



1862, p. 521. 



" G. annulari affinis sed brachium chelipedum ad marginem super- 

 iorem carinatum et dentatum, index dactylo paulo brevior acumin- 

 atus. Madras.^'' 



This is described as one of the specimens collected \)y the 

 Xovara in her voyage around the world, but in Dr. Heller's final 

 memoir on the Crustacea of that expedition, this species is not 

 mentioned. 



39. Gelasimus variatus Hess, Archiv. fiir Naturgeschichte, XXXI, 146, PI. VI, f. 7 



(18G5). PI X, f. 32. 



Cephalothorax smooth, greatly swollen. Front between the 

 ej'es small. Greater cheliped of male somewhat longer than the 

 breadth of the carapax. There is a large triangular depression at 




1880.] 



NATTRAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIirA. 



155 



the base of the inilex finger; the index finger is somrwliat bent, 

 the thnmb is straight ; both are tubercnh\te on the inner margin. 



Sydney, Australia. 



40. Gelasimus porcellanas White, Cat. B. M. Cru-'t., p. 3C (sine descr.), Adams and 



White, Voyage of the Samarang, Crustacea, p. 50 (1848), Edw., Ann. Sci. 

 Nat., Ill, xviii, p, 151 (1852). 



"Eye pedicels very long, frontal portion of carapax not nar- 

 rowed at the base; hind part of carapax much longer than the 

 sides. Fore-legs with the lower claws thickened at the end, the 

 inner margins of both claws with four larger tubercles amongst 

 the smaller crenules. Hab., Borneo.^'' (Adams and White.) 



41. Gelasimus inversus Ilofifmann, Rech. Faun., Madagascar, p. 29, PI. IV, f. 23-26. 



Madagascar. 



I have never seen this work, the quotation being taken from the 

 Zoolosfical Record. 



EXPLANATION OF PLMES. 



1. G. maracoani. 



2. G. heterochelcs. 



3. G. bellator. 



4. G. styh'ferus (after Milne-Ed w.) 



5. G. heterophihalmus. 



6. G. heteropleurus. 



7. G. cultrimanus. 



8. G. marionis (after Desmarest). 



9. G. forcipatus. 



10. G. arcuatiis. 



11. G. letragonon. 



12. G. forceps (after Milne-Edwards). 



13. G. longidigilum. 



14. G. smithii. 



15. G. urvillei (after Milne-Edw.). 



16. G. dussumieri (after Milne-Edw.). 



17. G. rubripft (after Hombron et 



Jacquinot). 



18. G. signatua (after Hess). 



19. G. brevipea (after Milne-Edw.). 



20. G. vocator. 



21. G. minax (drawn from type). 



22. G. annulipes. 



23. G. gaimardi. 



24. G. panamemis. 



25. G. perlatms. 



26. G. chlorophthalmus. 



27. G. perplexus (after Edwards). 



28. G. lacteus. 



29. G. subcylindricui (after Smith). 



30. G. tangieri (from type). 



31. G. latreillei. 



32. G. variaius (after Hess). 



33. G. s'eriodactyhis [from Brazil). 



34. G. ttenodactyhis (after Edwards 



et Lucas), 



oo. G. stenodactglus (from Mexico). 




156 prooeedings of the academy of [1880. 



April 6. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair. 



Forty-two persons present. 



The death of Wm. Theodore Roepper, a correspondent, was 

 aiinoimced. 



April 13. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty -eight persons present. 



A paper entitled '• Description of a New Species of Catosto- 

 mus (C. cypho}, from the Colorado RiA^er," by Wm. N. Locking- 

 ton, was presented for publication. 



The death of M. Laporte, Count de Castelnau, a correspondent, 

 was announced. 



Bemarks on Pond Life — Prof. Leidy remarked, that at the 

 invitation of Mr. Joseph W. Griscom, he had recently visited 

 some little ponds in the vicinity of Woodbury, New Jerse}-, 

 which were remarkable for the profusion of minute invertebrate 

 life. The ponds occupy' hollows in the woods, and consist mostly 

 of accumidated rain water, though several are likewise supplied 

 b}^ springs. Several are completely dried up during the summer. 

 Mr. Griscom says they continue rich in animal life even during 

 the winter. 



Of animals, entomostracans are exceedingly- numerous and 

 varied. Among some of the most beautiful and conspicuous were 

 noticed abundance of Branchipus, of which two species from 

 the same locality have been recently described by Mr! R^^der, 

 under the names of Chirocej)h.alus holmanii and Streptocephalua 

 sealii. There are also wonderful multitudes of many species of 

 copepods, ostracods and cladoceres, several of which are con- 

 spicuous for their large size and bright red color. 



In one of the ponds a bright green Hydra was frequent, and in 

 another a pinkish one was abundant. These appear to be the 

 B. gracilis and H. cornea of Agassiz, but it is a question whether 

 they are not the same as the H. viridis and H. fusca of Europe. 

 Some of the Hydras v;iiVQ of a briglit red color, and Mr. Griscom 

 intimated that this was due to the pinkish variety feeding on red 

 entomostracans. This was confirmed by some of the pink ones 

 which were brought home and kept in a jar with abundance of 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'IilA. 157 



red C^'clops, becoming, after a few clays, as a result of feeding on 

 the latter, of the same orange-red hue. Snbsequently, when food 

 became scarce, the red H3'dras lost their bright color. 



In one of the ponds, the stems of rushes and dead Ijraiiches of 

 trees were invested with a bright grass-green stratum, consisting 

 of a bright green Vorticella, probably the V. faaciculata of Miiller. 

 Tlie green color is dependent on chloroiihyl granuh-s, as an 

 element of the structure, and not on food. The body of the 

 animal ranged from 0*108 mm. long Ijy 0*00 mm. broad, to 0'12 

 mm. long by 0-09 mm. broad. A few measured were 0-1.5 mm. long 

 by 0-102 mm. Ijroad at the peristome. In a large active bunch, 

 most of them measured 0"00 mm. long and broad. Tlie pedicels 

 were from live to eiglit times the length of tlie body. 



In another pond, the water was rendered turbid from the pro- 

 fusion of Vofro.r glohator. In a bay of this pond filled with dead 

 leaves, a portion of water taken into a jar appeared opalescent 

 from the quantity of minute white flakes it contained. These, on 

 examination, proved to be Spirostomum ambiguum. In the same 

 pond, the Spatterdock, Niiphar advenn, was just about unfolding 

 its leaves, and many of these were thickly invested with a clear 

 jelly, dotted with bright green spots. These proved to be Sfentor 

 polymorphus. On the underside of a few open leaves on the sur- 

 face of the water, were many spots of bright green and dull red- 

 dish. The former consisted of groups of the green Vorticdla 

 before mentioned, tlie other consisted of attached groups of a 

 lilac- or amethystine-colored Slenfor, probabl}' )S'. igneiis. Similar 

 groups of this Stentor were observed on a floating log, which had 

 been in the water since last year, as it exhibited attached many 

 statoblasts of a Plumatella. Ehrenberg describes S. igneus as 

 bright yellow or vermilion ; Stein as blood red, or often lilac- 

 colored, or vermilion to brownish red. Ehrenberg found it at- 

 tached to Hottonia. Stein says he never saw it fixed. but always 

 swimming. 



The Woodbury A'ariety which might be named S. amethy)<tinus^ 

 was abundant and invariabl3- found in conspicuous groups, visible 

 to the unaided eye, and when detached, though the animals swam 

 about actively, they were not only disposed to become fixed, but 

 they actually gathered together in groups. They nil contained an 

 abundance of ehloroyjhyl, apparently derived from food, but the 

 exterior structure was invariabl}- of a distinct amethystine hue, 

 dependent on fine molecules. The color was more pronounced in 

 the longitudinal bands approaching the peristome. The nucleus 

 was spherical. 



In the attached state, when the animal was fully extended and 

 presented a trumpet shape, it was 0"G mm. long hy 0"18 mm. wide 

 at the peristome. This was a common size, but some measured 

 were 0'84 mm. long. In the conical form, when swimming, indi- 

 viduals ranged from 0'2'7 to 0'42 mm. loiii:-. In the most con- 




158 PROCEEDIXUS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



tractoti condition of oval shape, they measured 0"18 nun. long by 

 O'lo mm. broad. The nucleus, 0-03 mm. in diameter. 



Ehrenbero- and Stein oive for S. igneus one-sixth of a line 

 length, so that the variety indicated would appear to be much 

 lonuer. 



April 20. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



April 2*7. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 

 Lionel S. Beale, of London, was elected a correspondent. 



May 4, 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair, 

 Twenty -eight persons present. 



May 11. 



The President, Di\ Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty -two persons present. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed in the 

 Journal of the Academy. '■^' 



" The Terrestrial Mollusea inhabiting the Cooks or Harvej' 

 Islands," by Andrew Garrett. 



" The Placenta and Generative Apparatus of the Elephant," 

 by Henry C. Chapman, M. D. 




1880.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 159 



May 18. 

 The President, Dr. IIuschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled •' On the Strnctnre of the Orang Ontang," by 

 Henry C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication. 



The death of Wm. Logan Fox, a member, was announced. 



A fine portrait in oil, by Uhle, of Isaac Lea, LL. D., was pre- 

 sented to the Academy, and the following resolution was unani- 

 mously adopted : 



Eeftolved, That the thanks of the Academy be i)resented to 

 Dr. Lsaac Lea, for his gift of an admirable j)ortrait of himself, 

 which has been long desired b}' the society, and especially by the 

 senior members, who are cognizant of his A'aluable contributions 

 to science, as well as towards the prosperit}' of the Academy. 



May 25. 



The President, Dr. IIuschenberger, in the chair. 



Twent3'-two persons present. 



The " Proceedings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, for the 

 years 1877, 1878 and 1879," was presented for publication. 



Henry S. Gratz, R. S. Peabody, Mrs. R. S. Peabody and Wil- 

 liam Barbeck, were elected members. 



Adolf E. Nordenskiold of Stockholm, Carl Ochsenius of 

 Marburg, Oscar Hertwig and Richard Hertwig of Jena, were 

 elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE ORANG OUTANG. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D, 



Various parts of the Orang, Simia satyrus, L., have been dis- 

 sected, described, and figured b^- Tiedemann,* Oweii,^ Sandifort,-^ 

 Cuvier,^ Schroeder van der Kolk and Yrolik,^ Rolleston," Sclby,'^ 

 Huxley,-' Bischotr,9 Barnard,'" Langer,"-G.ratiolet,>- Spitzka,'^ and 

 others. It "was hardlj^ to be expected, the subject having been 

 investigated bj'' such eminent observers, that I could hope to find 

 anj^thing particularly new to science. It occiirred to me, how- 

 ever, that it might not be altogether useless to bring to the notice 

 of the Academy a general resume of the results of my dissection 

 of the Orang that died at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden in 

 Febrnar}' last, more especially as the memoirs referred to below 

 are scattered through the journals, and are often limited to descrip- 

 tions of certain parts of the animal only, such as the brain, mus- 

 cular system, etc. 



M3' Orang was a 3'oung male, supposed to bo about three years 

 old. The following measurements were taken : From vertex to 

 rump, IG inches ; upper extremity, 20|- inches ; arm, *! inches ; fore- 

 arm, 8 inches; hand, 5^ inches; lower extremity, 17^ inches; 

 thigh, 5 inches ; leg, 6 inches; foot, 6^ inches. What struck me at 

 once was the length of the ujiper extremit}-, it being 3 inches longer 



^ Tiedemann, Zeit. Phys. Darmstadt, 1827. 

 ^ Owen, Proc. Zool. Soc, i, 1830, 1831. 



* Sandifort, Ontleerhundige Beschryving, Leiden, 1840. 



* Cuvier and Laui'illard, Planches, 1849. 



'-' Schroeder van der Kolk and Vrolik, Verhandelingen Kon. Nied. Inst., 

 1849; Verslagen Kon. Acad., 1863. 



« Eolleston, Nat. Hist. Rev., 1861. 



' Selby, Nat. Hist. Kev., 1861. 



8 Huxley, Med. Times, 1864. 



» Bischoff, ]Municli ALhand. 1870. 



'" Barnard, Proc. American Assoc, 1876. 



" Langer, SitznngsLcricbte, Wien, 1879. 



'^ Gratiolet, His C'crebraux des Primates, no date. 



" Spitzka, Journal of Mental and Nervous Diseases, 1879. 



Note. — I regret that when dissecting the Gorilla I was unacquainted 

 with Mr. Macalister's valuable paper in the Proceedings of Royal Irish 

 Academy for 1873. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



than the lower one, the Orang agreeing nearly in this respect with the 

 Gorilla* which 1 dissected, the difri-rencc in the extremities in that 

 animal being 3i inches, whereas in the Ciiimpanzee- I found only 

 a difference of 1| inches. The foot in the Orang, however, was 

 ^ inch larger than the hand, whereas in the Gorilla the hand was 

 ^ inch larger than the foot ; in the Chimpanzee the difference in 

 this respect was § inch in favor of the foot. The foot in the Orang, 

 however, resembled superficially a hand much more than it does 

 in the Gorilla. Indeed the distinctness of hand and foot super- 

 ficially is more marked in the Gorilla than in the other anthro- 

 poids. I fonnd the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic visceriv per- 

 fectly- health}'. The animal seemed to have died from congestion 

 of the brain ; there was also some cerebritis. As tlie osteologj' 

 of the Orang has been thoroughly described by Prof. Owen^ and 

 others it will not be worth while for me to dwell on that part of 

 its organization. I will jiass therefore to the muscular s^-stem, 

 aiKl more particularly to that of the extremities, as being the 

 most interesting as compared with man. 



Muscular Systems In Prof. Bischotf's' paper on the Gorilla an 



excellent figure is given of the muscles of the foce of the Orang, 

 from a preparation by Rudinger. These muscles were described 

 by Prof. Owen,** but not figured. The same facial muscles are 

 found in man and the Orang with the exception that there is but 

 one zygomaticus possiblj' corresponding to the zygomaticus minor 

 of man, though on account of its size it may represent both the 

 z^'gomaticus major and minor. The facial muscles in the Orang 

 are not as well differentiated as in man, rather hanging together. I 

 noticed that the digastricus had only the posterior head. There 

 was nothing peculiar, however, about the sterno cleido mastoid, 

 omohj'oid, or the scaleni. The omoccrvicalis or elevator claviculjT? 

 passed from the transverse process of the atlas to the acromial 

 end of the claviele, as I found it in the Chimpanzee and in the 

 Gorilla. The pectoralis miijor arose in three portions : the first, 

 from sternum and first intercostal space ; the second, from sternal 

 part of third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and the third from costal 



' Proc. of Acad, of Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia, 1878. 



' Proc. of Acad, of Xat. Sciences, Philadelphia, 18T0. 



■' Trans, of Zool. Society, IS:')"). 



* Beitrajre, Munich Abhand., 1S70. 



^ Proc. of Zool. Society, i, 1830, p. 'iS. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



portion of fourth, fifth, sixtli and seventh ribs. This distinction in 

 origin is partly visible even in man. There was nothing notice- 

 able about the pectoralis minor or subclavius, supraspinati or 

 teres. The latissimns dorsi, as in all monkeys, gave ofi' the slip 

 the latissimo cond3'loides, which, however, in the Orang scarcely 

 reached the condyle, and was pierced by the ulnar nerve. The 

 biceps, triceps, and brachialis anticus were well developed, and 

 the external cutaneous nerve passed through the coraco-brachialis 

 as in man. The anterior aspect of the forearm was quite huraaii. 

 The pronator radii teres arose b}^ two heads, between which passed 

 the median nerve. The flexor car[)i radialis and ulnaris and the 

 palmaris longus were well developed. The flexor sublimis did not 

 differ from that of man. The flexor profundus was rather sepa- 

 rated into two portions, one for the under and the other for the 

 remaining fingers. There was no trace of a flexor longus pol- 

 licis either as a distinct muscle or as a slip from the flexor pro- 

 fundus. The abductor, flexor brevis, adductor and opponens 

 pollicis, abductor flexor brevis, and opponens minimi digiti, and 

 the lumbricales were all present. As regards the back of the fore- 

 arm, the supinator longus arose higher than in man. The supi- 

 nator brevis, and extensor radialis longior and brevior, extensor 

 ossi metacarpi pollicis and exterior secundi internodii pollicis did 

 not ditter from those in man. The absence of an extensor primi inter- 

 nodii pollicis was noticeable, as was also the fact of the extensor 

 indicis giving a slip to the middle finger and the extensor minimi 

 digiti one to the ring finger, making eight tendons supplj'ing the 

 back of the fingers with the four from the extensor communis 

 digitorum. The interossei were the same as in man. Briefly, the 

 upper extremity of the Orang in its muscles differed essentially 

 from that of man in the absence of the flexus longus, and primi 

 internodii pollicis and in the presence of the additional tendons 

 to the ring and middle fingers. The Orang agreed with the 

 Gorilla in not having a flexor longus pollicis, but disagreed with 

 it in having the pronator radii teres arising by two heads, in the 

 presence of a palmaris longus, in the additional tendons for ring 

 and middle fingers, and in not having the extensor primi internodii 

 l^ollicis. As compared with the Chimpanzee, the Orang agreed 

 in reference to the pronator radii teres and palmaris longus, but in 

 the extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis being single, and in the 

 absence of the flexor longus pollicis as a slip from the pro- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 103 



fundus, and in tlic presence of the additional extensor tendons it 

 differed. 



As might be expected from the elongated form of the pelvis and 

 the absence of the round ligament of the hip-joint in the Orang, the 

 glutei muscles differ somewhat from those of man. The glutajus 

 magnus (PI. 1 2, e) in the Orang — not as large or as fleshy as its glu- 

 tffius medius — is inserted together with the tensor vaginae femoris, 

 which is scantily developed, if at all, into the fascia lata of the thigh, 

 the glutit'us medius being inserted into the great trochanter. Parallel 

 with the lower edge of the gluta-us medius (PI. 12, c), is seen a small 

 muscle rising from the edge of the great sciatic notch, and inserted 

 into the great trochanter (PI. 12, h). This muscle seems to corres- 

 pond to part of the pyriformis in man, the sacral portion of the 

 muscle not being developed in the Orang. The glutaeus minimus 

 is represented hy a muscle arising from the external edge of the 

 ileum, and passing almost verticall}' downwards until inserted into 

 the great trochanter, close to the pyriformis (PI. 12, a). At first 

 sight this muscle seems much displaced if it is the glutaeus mini- 

 mus, but if one can imagine the ileum (PI. 12, cV) in the Orang to 

 be widened outwardh' to the same extent as seen in man, there 

 would be little or nothing anomalous about the muscle. From 

 the position of the glutanis minimus in the Orang, it would seem 

 that this muscle would supplement, to a certain extent, the want 

 of the ligamentum teres, which, it Avill be remembered, is absent 

 in this ape. 



In the Chimpanzee there is so little that is peculiar about the 

 glutaeus minimus that I had no difficult}' in identif3'ingit,and the 

 same can be said of the Gorilla. In the account of the Chimpan- 

 zee b}- TrailP however, the glutaeus minimus is described as a 

 distinct new muscle, the scansorius ; the muscle I have described 

 as pyriformis, Traill regarded as the glutaus minimus, the pyri- 

 formis, according to Traill, being absent. Since then, this so- 

 called scansorius muscle has been referred to by Pischoff, Owen, 

 Huxley and others, as a distinct muscle. With all deference to 

 such eminent anatomists, I cannot see any essential difference 

 between the scansorius of Traill, and the gluteus minimus in man.- 



^ Wernerian Transactions, p. 18, 1821. 



2 On looking up the literature upon the anatomy of the Orang, I find 

 that in 187() Prof, liarnard, op. cit., considered the scansorius as being 

 homologous with the glutivus minimus, and mentioned in his paper that 




ItU PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The obturators, gemolli ami qnadratus femoris, wore well de- 

 veloped. There was nothing peculiar about the muscles of the 

 thigh either on the anterior or posterior surface ; the rectus 

 arose, however, only from the inferior spine of the ileum. In 

 the leg anteriorly, I noticed the tibialis anticus divided into 

 two tendons ; otherwise, the muscles were as in man. Tlie 

 peroneus longus and brevis Avere well developed, Imt there was 

 no peroneus tertius. The soleus, as usual in monkeys, had only 

 the phintar head, and there was no trace of a plantaris, although, 

 according to Sandifort, it is present. The flexor longus digi- 

 torum supplied the perforating tendons for the second and fifth, 

 the flexor longus hallucis those for the third and fourth digits. 

 There was no slip from the longus hallucis for the big toe, 

 that muscle, therefore, except from its origin, scarcely deserves 

 that name. The flexor brevis digitorum supplied the perforated 

 tendons for the second and third toes. Those for the fourth 

 and fifth came off from the flexor longus digitorum. The 

 tendon for the fifth toe was not perforated. There was a connect- 

 ing slip between the third and fourth tendons. The external Iiead 

 only of the flexor accessorius was present. In addition to the ab- 

 ductor, flexor brevis and adductor of the hallux, there was a well- 

 marked opponens hallucis. The lumbricales for the second and 

 fifth digits came from the flexor longus digitorum, those for the 

 third and fourth digits from the flexor longus hallucis. The ab- 

 ductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti were well developed, but 

 there was no transversus pedis. The interossei were like those 

 of the hand. Briefly, as compared with man, the leg and foot of the 

 Orang differ in the absence of the peroneus tertius, plantaris, flexor 

 longus hallucis and transversus pedis, in the fibular origin of the 

 soleus, and external origin of accessorius only, in the distribution 

 of the perforating and perforated tendons for the toes, in the inter- 

 ossei, and in the presence of an opponens for the big toe. In this 

 latter respect the Orang differs not only from man, but from all the 

 other monkeys and anthropoids, the foot having a very hand-like 

 appearance, as compared with that of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. 

 The foot of the Orang differs further in the absence of a special 



Prof. Humphrey held essentially the same opinion. I was not aware, until 

 I had finished my dissection, of the views previously published by these 

 anatomists, and am glad to have been able, independently, to come to the 

 same conclusion. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELI'III A. K'lO 



flexorforthe big toe. This is supplemented toacertain extent bvtlie 

 opponeus, and in a partly developed accessorius. The perforated 

 tendon for the fiftli toe in the Gorilla carae from the flexor longus 

 hallucis, whereasgiin the Chimi)anzee and Oning it is supplied In" 

 the tendou of the longus digitoruni. If Prof. Huxley's canon be 

 accepted that the distinction between a hand and a foot consists 

 in the latter possessing tarsal bones, the peroneus longus and 

 brevis, the short extensor and short flexor muscles, then tlie pos- 

 terior extremity of the Orang terminates in a foot. It appears 

 to me, however, that the diflTerence between the hand and foot in 

 man, the Gorilla, Chimpanzee, and the lower monkeys, is greater 

 than that observed between the corresponding members of the 

 Orang. 



Alimentary Canal, etc. — It is usiiallj" stated that the uvula is 

 absent in the Orang, and, on looking into the month, at first sight 

 this appears to be the case, as it does not hang down as in man 

 between the pillars of the fauces — nevertheless it exists. I found 

 it pointing directly backwards in a straight line from the jiosterior 

 palatine spine. It contained the azygos uvulie muscle. Prof. 

 Bischoft'^ mentions also finding the uvula in the Orang. The cir- 

 cumvallate papilla? of the tongue are disposed in the form of a 

 /\, as in man; I found this to be the case in the female Chimpan- 

 zee,^ of which I gave an account, and also in a male which I had 

 the opportunity recently of dissecting. The salivary glands witli 

 their ducts were well developed, the submaxillary being very 

 large both relatively and absolutely, as compared with man. The 

 stomach in the Orang (PI. 13, fig. 1) is not so human in its form as 

 that of either the Gorilla or the Chimpanzee, the cardiac portion, two- 

 thirds of the stomach, being more elongated and constricted from the 

 P3'loric part, which was tubular. The greater curvature measured 

 6 inches, the less 4. The small intestine was 8 feet 4 inches in 

 length, the large 4 feet. The constant presence of valvula? con- 

 niventes in the small intestine of the Orang appears even at the 

 present day questionable by some anatomists. In speaking of 

 these folds occurring in the Gorilla, Bischofl'"' refers to Owen not 

 finding them in the Orang, while they are said to exist by Sandi- 

 fort, Mayer and Barkow. As to his own opinion on the subject, 

 he expresses himself as follows : '• Die boiden jetzt auf's Xeiie ' 



' Beitrage sur Gorilla, p. 37. - Op. cit., p. ">. ^ Op. cit., pp. 40, 41. 




IGfi PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



von mil* uutersnchten Diinndiirme des Oraiigs aiis Dresden nnd 

 ans der hiesigen Zoolog. Sammlung, sowie der eines Zweitcn 

 Chimpanzee aus Dresden, zeigen keine Spnr der genannten Fal- 

 ten. Ich halte nacli alle diesem ihre Gegenwart beira Orang nnd 

 Cliimpanzee fiir zweifelhaft ; beim Gorilla, wenn gleich in 

 schwaolier Entwickluiig, fiir gewiss ; individuelle Yersclieiden- 

 heiten sind doch in einem solclien Punckte nielit walirsclieinlicli." 

 I found indications of valvulai conniventes in the Orang, but of 

 the most rudimentary character as compared with man. In places 

 they run parallel witli the long axis of the intestine (PL 14, fig. 2), 

 then transversely' as in man (PI. 14, fig. 3), then again as at first, 

 and afterwards again transversely. They are found in parts of the 

 jejunum and ileum. The valvulje conniventes I found very well 

 developed in the male Chimpanzee (PI. 14,fig. 4),but not at all in 

 the female. I noticed in the Orang the villi and solitary glands ; 

 the Peyer's glands were very well developed. I counted fifteen, 

 some of which measured 4 inches in length. The caecum and ileo- 

 colic valve did not ditfer from the same parts in man. The ver- 

 miform appendix attained a length of 6^ inches absolutely, and 

 was relatively much larger than that of man, reminding one of 

 the condition of this structure in the human embryo. As regards 

 the large intestine, the only noticeable peculiarities were the 

 large size of the solitary glands, and the fact that the mucous 

 membrane of the ascending colon Avas thrown into well-marked 

 longitudinal folds, with transverse connecting ones, exhibiting 

 quite a reticulated appearance (PI. 14, fig. 1). This is not the 

 case in the Chimpanzee. The peritoneum was disposed as in 

 man. The transverse colon was connected with the stomach, 

 as was also the case in the Chimpanzee, and Prof. Bischoff^ 

 noticed that this obtains also in the Gorilla. As is well known, the 

 transverse colon in the monkeys can be raised entirely without 

 drawing up with it the stomach, with the exception sometimes 

 of the Macacques, in which I have noticed a slight peritoneal 

 connection between pyloric part of stomach and colon, indi- 

 cating a beginning of a gastrocolic omentum ? I did not notice 

 anything peculiar about the spleen or pancreas. The quadrate lobe 

 of liver was absent ; the spigelian lobe, however, was very well 

 developed ; the hepatic duct opened at a little distance from the 

 pancreatic. I found in the small intestine, five fine specimens of 



1 Op. cit., p. 39. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPniA. 167 



the Ascaris lumhricoides^ and one in the large, and in the cai'cum 

 a Trichocephalus diapar. I believe this is the first time these 

 entozoa have been found in the same anthropoid. According to 

 Diesing' the Trichocephalv.s is found in the Orang, and Cobbold- 

 states that Mui-ie sent him an Ascaris from tlie Chimpanzee. 

 .ti Respiratory System. — In the Orang, as in the Gorilla and Chim- 

 panzee, particularly in the males, the ventricles of the lar3nx are 

 prolonged into the so-called laryngeal pouches. In j'oung speci- 

 mens of the anthropoids, these pouchesj though not so well devel- 

 oped as in the adults, can usually, however, be perfectly identified. 

 In dissecting ni}' Orang, after removing the skin in the cervical 

 region, I noticed what appeared to me to be the laryngeal pouches, 

 and by passing a tube into one of the ventricles of the larynx, the 

 pouch of that side could be readily inflated. On tracing, however, 

 the anterior wall of the pouch downward, I noticed that it was 

 attached to the front of the sternum and clavicle, and on opening 

 the pouch and following its posterior wall, I found it attached to 

 the back of the sternum and first rib. Thus the interior of the 

 pouch corresponded with the s^^ace between the two laj-ers of the 

 cervical fascia in man, usually filled with fat and absorbent glands, 

 but in the Orang it is empty and communicating with the interior 

 of the larynx. The pouch was not lined with mucous membrane, 

 resembling the remaining fascia, which was indeed continuous with 

 it. Supposing that my dissection really represented the true rela- 

 tion of these parts, then, morphologically speaking, the laryngeal 

 pouch in the anthropoids would be homologous with and replace 

 the two layers of the cervical fascia in man, so familiar to the 

 surgeon. There was nothing especially noticeable about the vocal 

 cords, epiglottis or trachea. The lungs (PI. 13, fig. 2), however, 

 were not divided into lobes as in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. 



Vascidar System. — I did not notice about the heart anything 

 especially difierent from the human. In reference to the oriirin 

 of the vessels, however, the innominate gave ofi" the left carotid 

 and continuing an eighth of an inch then divided into the right 

 carotid and right subclavian, the left subclavian coming otf sepa- 

 rately from the aorta (PI. 13, fig. 2). In the Gorilla and male 

 Chimpanzee I found the disposition of these vessels the same as 

 in man, which is the case in the Orang, according to Sandifort. In 

 the female Chimpanzee there were two innominates, a long and a 



^Helm., vol. ii, p. 534. -Entozoa, p. 291. 




ItiS PROCEEDINGS OF TEIE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



>liort 0110, the latter dividing into left carotid and subclavian. 

 The arteries and veins of the extremities did not differ from those 

 of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. I Ibnnd in the Orang, as in them, 

 the "' long saphenous artery " accompanying the nerve and vein 

 of same name. The mesenteric vessels exhibited loops along the 

 borders of intestine. 



Genito-iwinary Apparatus. — The general appearance of tliese 

 structures resembled strikingly those of man (PI. 15). The 

 kidnej' measured 1^ inches in length, and exhibits only one 

 papilla. The ureters were 5 inches long. The bladder was 2 

 inches in length and 1 in diameter. The testicles measured f of 

 an inch in length, and were situated near the inguinal canal. The 

 cavit}' of the tunica vaginalis testes was shut off" from the general 

 peritoneal cavity. The vas deferens was 4 inches in length, the 

 seminal vesicle 1 inch ; the seminal duct was very short. The 

 caput gallinaginis was well developed, as was also the prostate. 

 The penis measured 2 inches in length, the glans was of cylindri- 

 cal shape. There was no bone in the penis. The Cowper's glands 

 were relatively large. 



Nervous Si/stem — The brain of the Orang has been figured<by 

 Tiedemann, Sandifort, Schroeder van der Kolk and Yrolik, Gra- 

 tiolet, Rolleston, etc. On account, however, of the few illustrations 

 extant, and of the importance of the subject, I avail mj'self of the 

 opportunity of presenting several views of my Orang's brain (Pi's 

 16 and IT), which was removed from the skull onlj- a few hours after 

 death. The memV}ranes were in a high state of congestion, and a 

 little of the surface of the left hemisphere had been disorganized 

 by disease, otherwise the brain was in good condition. It weighed 

 exactly 10 ounces. The brain of the Orang in its general contour 

 resembled that of man more than those of either of the Chimpan- 

 zees which I examined. In these the brain was more elongated. 

 The general character of the folds and fissures in the brain of the 

 Orang, Chimpanzee, and man are the same, there are certain 

 minor differences, however, in their disposition in all three. The 

 fissure of Silvius in the Orang runs up and down the posterior 

 branch pursuing onlv a slightly backward direction, the anterior 

 branch is small. The fissure of Rolando, or central fissure, quite 

 apparent, is, however, situated slightl}^ more forward in the Orang 

 than in man. It differentiates the frontal from the parietal lobe. 

 The parieto occipital fissure is well marked, bordered externalh' 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELPHIA. 109 



by the first occipital fold it lU'Sceiuls internally on the mesial side 

 of the hemisphere, separating the parietal from the occipital lobes. 

 In the Orang, the parieto-occipital fissure does not reach the cal- 

 carine, being separated from it by the " deuxieme plis <le passage 

 interne " of Gratiolet, or " iintere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung" 

 of Bischotf. I have noticed this separation as an anomaly more 

 than once in man. 



According to Bischotf, this disposition obtains in the Gorilla, 

 and seems to be usual also in the Chimpanzee. In the female Chim- 

 panzee, however, on the left side I found the parieto-occipital 

 fissure ])assing into the calearine, as in man. The frontal lobe is 

 easily distinguished from the parietal b}' the fissure of Rolando, 

 and from the temporal by the fissure of Sylvius. In the Orang it 

 is higher, wider, and more arched than in the Chimpanzee. The 

 anterior central convolution in front of the central fissure runs 

 into the post-central convolution above and below, as in man. It 

 is difiHcult, however, to identify the three frontal convolutions 

 seen in man and the Chimpanzee, the frontal lol>e of the Orang 

 dividing rather into two convolutions, the middle one being badly 

 defined. This is due somewhat to the length of the pre-central 

 fissure, which is as long as the fissure of Rolando, extending 

 farther upward than in man. There was nothing particularly 

 noticeable about the base of the frontal lobe ; on the mesial 

 surface it ran into the parietal. The part above the calloso- 

 marginal fissure in the Orang is not as distinctlj' divided into 

 convolutions as in man, though these are not constantly present 

 even in all human brains. The parietal lobe is separated from 

 the frontal by the central fissure, from the occipital and temporal 

 incompletely, by the parieto-occipital and Sylvian fissures. The 

 posterior-central convolution is well defined. The parietal fissure 

 in the Orang is more striking than that of man, resembling the 

 Gorilla's ; it is twice as long as the corresponding fissure in the 

 Chimpanzee, extending from the transverse occipital fissure, as is 

 sometimes the case in man, almost into the fissure of Rolando. It 

 is unbridged and without a break, and divides the parietal lobe 

 completely into upper and lower parietal lol»ules. The upper. 

 j)arietal lobule is bounded externally by the parietal fissure:, 

 posteriori}' it is sei)arated from the occipital lobe, internally b}- 

 the parieto-occipital fissure ; externally it is contiiuious witii the 

 occipital lobe, as the firsl occipital gyrus, anteriorly it is s»;|.a- 



13 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



rated from the posterior central convolution more completely 

 than in man, by a fissure which runs parallel with the central 

 fissure. There is in the Orang, also, a fissure running parallel 

 with the parietal, which subdivides the upper parietal lobule into 

 inner and outer portions. The precuneus, or the space on the 

 mesial side of the parietal lobe between the parieto-occipital 

 fissures and the ascending branches of the calloso-niarginal, is 

 well defined. The lower parietal lobule in the Orang divides 

 naturally into the supra-marginal and angular gyri. The supra- 

 marginal fold curves around the upper end of the posterior 

 branch of the fissure of Sylvius and runs into the superior tem- 

 poml g3'rus. The angular gyrus, which is very evident, arches 

 around the first temporal fissure, and becoming continuous with 

 the second occipital fold, passes then into the upper temporal 

 gyrus. The occipital lobe, separated from the parietal, internally, 

 b}' the parieto-occipital fissure, is continuous with upper parietal 

 lobule through the first occipital gyrus, and by the second 

 occipital gyrus with the angular. There are no sharp lines of 

 demarkation between the occipital and temporal lobes. In the 

 occipital lobe of my Orang the transverse occipital fissure was 

 present, and received the parietal fissure. The calcarine fissure 

 was well marked, but was separated in the Orang from the parieto- 

 occipital fissure by the " deuxieme plis de passage interne " of 

 Gratiolet, the " untere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung " of Bischofl". 

 The cuneus of the Orang is therefore somewhat different from that 

 of man. In man I have seen these two fissures separated as an 

 anomal}'. The calcarine passed into the hippocampal fissure, so 

 that in the Orang, as in monkeys generally, the gyrus fornicatus 

 was separated from the hippocampal gyrus , whereas in man these 

 convolutions are continuous. This disposition has been noticed 

 in the Hylobates, in Ateles, and in one Chimpanzee, where 

 the calcarine did not reach the hippocampal. The first occi- 

 pital gjTus is very well developed, and, as the late Professor 

 Gratiolet observed, is one of the most striking convolutions in 

 the brain of the Orang. It rises so to the surface that the 

 internal perpendicular fissure or external part of the parieto- 

 occipital fissure is almost entirely bridged over, the operculum so 

 characteristic of the monkey almost disappearing. It is con- 

 tinuous with the upper parietal lobule arching around the parieto- 

 occipital fissure. This convolution comes to the surface in the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlITLADELPIII A. ITI 



ITylohates and Ateles almost to the same extent as in the Oranfr. 

 l)nt it is more developed in the latter than in the Chimpanzee. It 

 is called also the '• premier plis de passage externa,'' by Grntiolet, 

 the " obere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung," l)y Biscliotf", the •' tirst 

 annectant gyrus," by Huxley, and " first bridging convolution," 

 by Turner. The second occipital convolution connects the occipital 

 lobe with the angular gj'rus. In my Orang it was |)artly concealed 

 by the first occipital. It was not. as superficial as in man. The 

 third occipital gyrus is continuous with that part of the teuiporal 

 lobe below the first temporal fissure. I noticed, also, in my 

 Orang the " quatrieme plis de passage " of Gratiolet. On the 

 mesial side of the occipital lolie in my Orang, was well seen the 

 "deuxieme plis de passage interne" of Gratiolet, the '• untere 

 innere Scheitelbogen-Windung " of Bischoff, which separates the 

 calcarine from the parieto-occipital fissure ; and in both the 

 Orang and Chimpanzee, more especialh' on the left side, I had no 

 difficulty in recognizing the " premier plis de passage interne "' of 

 Gratiolet, its convexity turning inwards, while that of the first 

 occipital g3n'us, or the "premier plis de passage exterae," turns 

 outward. These two convolutions, the first occipital gyrus and 

 the " premier plis de passage interne," in my Orang were con- 

 tinuous. They are regarded as one by Bischoff, forming his 

 " obere innere Scheitelbogen-Windung," but as two b}' Gratiolet, 

 constituting his •' premier plis de passage externe et interne.'' 



The temporal lobe in the Orang is much less convoluted than in 

 man, or even in the Chimpanzee. The first temporal fissure and 

 first temporal convolution are well marked, but the second and 

 third are badl}' defined. The fusiform and lingual lobes are sep- 

 arated bj' the inferior occipito-temporal fissures, the collateral 

 fissures of Huxley. The island of Keil was perfectly covered in 

 both the Chimpanzee and the Orang b}' the operculum, but was 

 not convoluted in ui}- Orang. The surface in places was slightly 

 roughened. I noticed, however, three or four convolutions in 

 the Chimpanzee. On making a section of the left hemispliere of 

 the Orang I noticed that the corpus callosum was relative]}' 

 smaller than in man, but that the ventricle exhibited an anterior, 

 middle and posterior cornu, the corpus striatum, taenia semi- 

 circnlaris, thalamus opticus and fornix were well develo|«ed. the 

 hippocampus major with corpus fimbriatum were perfectly evident, 

 and the hippocampus minor larger relatively than in man. 1 did 




1Y2 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



not soo :i trace of the oiuinenontia collateralis ; this is often, 

 however, absent in ni;ui. ■ - 'j!i: 



The cerebellmn in mv Oiang was rehitively hirger than 'that of 

 man, bnt snuiUov than that of either the Chimpanzees I have dis- 

 sected, and was just covered and no more b}- the posterior lobes 

 of the cerebrum. This rehition is still retained in mv Orang, 

 though the brain has been lying in alcohol for three months since 

 it was taken out of the chloride of zinc in which it was placed 

 until the pia mater could be removed. During this period it has 

 been subject to the conditions, such as the want of the support of 

 the membranes, the etfect of pressure, etc., urged by Gratiolet, 

 Huxley, Rolleston, Marshall, etc., as sufficient to explain why 

 after death the cerebellum was uncovered by the cerebrum in the 

 Orang and Chimpanzee, as held by Owen, Schroeder van der 

 Kolk and Yrolik, and Bischoff. Every anatomist knows that 

 the brain after removal from the skull, especially without the 

 membrane, if left to itself, very soon loses its shape. It is abso- 

 luteh' necessary therefore to examine the brain in situ, and after 

 removal from skull to place it in some hardening fluid in which it 

 will float. Even with these precautions, through the change of 

 the surroundings, shrinkage, etc., the brain is always somewhat 

 altered. It happens, however, that I have had lying in alcohol 

 for some years a number of human and monkc}' brains. Among 

 the latter, examples of the genera Cebus, Ateles, Macacus, Cyno- 

 cephalus, Cercopithecua^ etc., taken out of the skull suiflciently 

 carefully, but preserved in the riidest manner without any 

 regard to the above precautions. Now, while all of these brains 

 have somewhat lost their natural contour, they are not so changed 

 that in a single one, human or monkey, do I find the cerebellum 

 uncovered by the cere]>rura, and in every instance the posterior 

 loV)es overlap the cerebellum to a greater extent than I find is the 

 case in m}' Orang. If the cerebrum and cerebellum in the Orang 

 and Chimpanzee invaria1»ly bear the same proportion to each 

 other as the}' do in man and the monkeys, why should not the 

 brain of an Orang or Chimpanzee, after lying in alcohol for some 

 years, exhibit the cerebellum covered by the cerebrum as in them? 

 Why should it be necessary to replace the brain of the Chimpan- 

 zee or the Or^ng in ,tJie,g|kull, to make plaster casts, etc., if there 

 is no difference between their brains and those of man and the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



monkey ti, for there i.s no necessity of huving recourse to such 

 measures to itrove tliat the cerebellum is covered in the latter? 



In the account I gave of the female Chimpanzee,' I stated that 

 I found the cerebellum uncovered. I had the opportunity a short 

 time since, of verifying that statement in the male, noticing in 

 ■^itu that the cerebellum was imcovered b\' the posterior lobes. 

 This was found to be the case by Mr. Artiiur Browjie, the Super- 

 intendent of the Phila. Zool. (iarden. in a third Chimpanzee 

 which died there. With all deference to I'rof Marshall's- photo- 

 graph of a plaster cast of tlie brain of a Chimpanzee, and how- 

 ever it may truthfidly represent the relations of tlie cerebellum in 

 his specimen. I must say that it would be simply monstrous if 

 accei)ted as an illustration of either of mine, and with profound 

 respect for Prof. Huxley's ^ opinion regarding the interior of the 

 skull being a guide for the determination of the proportion between 

 posterior lobe and cerebellum, I tind it anything but a safe one as 

 regards the anthropoid apes. For the space l)etween posterior lobes 

 of brain and dura mater and bone, both posteriorly and laterally', I 

 find very variable in situ, due to the state of the blood vessels and 

 amount of fluid in arachnoid and subarachnoid cavities. In speak- 

 ing of the Gorilla, Prof. Bischotf ' observes, p. 100, " Das es bei 

 ersterem am wcnigsten von oben Ilinterlappen der grossen Ilemi- 

 sphare bedeckt wird und bei der Betrachtung des Schadel gewiss von 

 oben mit seinem hinterera Rande sichti>ar winl." And in reference 

 to the Chimpanzee,'* p. 95, " Die Hinterhauptslappen des grossen 

 Gehirns bei diesem Affen wie bei dem Menschen das kleine Gehirn 

 iiberzogen und von oben fast ganz bedeeken."' And Yrolik*' states, 

 p. t, of the Orang : " Ce lobe posterieur ne se prolonge pas autant 

 que chez I'homme ; il ne recourve pas si bien lecervelet du moins il 

 ne cache pas completement surtout vers les cotes." The fact of the 

 cerebellum being covered by the posterior lobes in my Orang and 

 tiiat figured by Gratiolet, and but slightly uncovered in that of 

 Vrolik's, is no more strange than that Bischoff" should tind it 

 covered in one Hylobates, and Prof. Huxley * having stated it to 

 be uncovered in another. 

 ,1 did not observe anything particularly noticeable, about the 



' Proceed, of Acad., 1879. ^ Natui-al History Review, 18G1. 



* Man's place in Nature, p. 07. ' Das Gehirn des Gorillas, 1877. 



■* Gehirn des Chimpanzee, lft71. '• Amsterflain Vershi;jjen. Deel 13. 1S(}2. 



^ Beitrage zur Hylobates, 1870. - Vertebrate Anatomy, p. 41 1. 




1T4 raocEEDiNos of the academy of [1880. 



l>ons or mi'diiUa, except that in the latter the olivary ])odies arc 

 not ns dii:>tinct as in man. As regards the peripheral nervous 

 system it was essentially the same as the liiiman. As the brain of the 

 Orang- which I have just endeavored to describe is the property' 

 of the Academy, the animal having been bought and presented by 

 Mr. Wui. S. Yatix, and as it was desirable to })reserve it in its 

 present condition, I could not make use of it to examine the 

 structure minutely. I would refer those interested in the Jiis- 

 tology of the anthropoid brain, to Dr. Spitzka's paper.^ .rrrrfO 



What can be inferred from the general organization of the 

 Orang as to its relation to the other primates ? The Orang like 

 ; man has twelve ribs, whereas the Gorilla and Chimpanzee have 

 thirteen ; on the other hand the carpal and tarsal bones are nine 

 in number in the Orang, while the Chimpanzee and Gorilla agree 

 with man in having eight. The upper extremity of the Orang 

 re?emblos that of the Gorilla in the absence of the flexor longus 

 pollicis. The Chimpanzee and man are alike in this respect, at 

 least the slip from the flexor longus digitorum in the former is 

 functionally a flexor longus. In the absence of a flexor longus 

 hallucis, and in the i:)resence of an opponens hallucis, the Orang 

 differs from man, the anthropoids and all the monkeys. The great 

 blood-A'essels arise from the arch of aorta in the Gorilla and 

 man in the same w-ay ; the same disposition is usually seen in the 

 Chimpanzee, rarel}' in the Orang. The lungs in the Orang are 

 not divided into lobes as in the Gorilla, Chimpanzee and man. 

 The stomach in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee is human in its 

 form ; in the Orang, however, it is quite different. The peri- 

 toneum in the Gorilla, Chimpanzee and Orang is like that of man ; 

 in the lower monke3-s it is different. The brain of the Oi'ang in 

 its globular form, in the cerebellum being usually covered by the 

 cerebrum, and in the development of the first occipital gyrus, 

 resembles man more than that of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee. 

 On the other hand, the frontal and temporal lol)es in the Orang 

 are not as much convoluted as in the Chimpanzee, and still less 

 than in man, and the island of Roil is not convoluted at all, at 

 least in my Orang. 



It will be seen from the above illustrations, of which many 

 others might be given, that the Gorilla and man, in some respects, 

 agree with and differ from the Chimpanzee and Orang ; while 



1 Op.cit. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES Of PIIILADELPniA. 175 



from other points of view the Orang approaches man more closely 

 than either the Gorilla or Chimpanzee, and that as regards certain 

 muscles, man and the lower monkey's agree in having tliem, while 

 they are absent in the anthropoids. From these facts we may 

 reasonably infer that the ancestral form of man was intermediate 

 in character as compared with the living anthropoids or lower 

 monkeys, agrecinir with them in some respects, and dilfcring from 

 them in others. The Orang is closel}' allied to the Gibbons, the 

 Chimpanzee to the Macacques, and the gap between these and the 

 SemnopithecKS is bridged over by the MesojnfhecuH of Gaudr}'. 

 Until, however, the paleontologist will have procured more 

 material like that from Pikermi, and interpreted it as ably, it 

 will seem to me premature to otfer any detailed genealogical tree 

 of the Primates. 




116 PROCEEBINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW CRUSTACEAN FROM THE UPPER SILURIAN OF 



GEORGIA, WITH REMARKS UPON CALYMENE CLINTONI. ^;„ 



Oiq 9d 1 



BY ANTHONY AV. VOGDES, U. S. A. 



Calymene rostrata Vogdes. 



Tliis species ditlers in one aspect from tlic usual forms classed 

 under the genus Calymene, in having a projecting process arising 

 directly from the cephalic shield in front of the glabella, and in 

 this respect resembles Homalonotua rhinotrojns of Angelin, a 

 species which has been referred by Salter, in his monograph of 

 British Trilobites, to H. Knightii. Salter says "the front margin 

 1- is of most singular structure and may be 



described as tricuspid. The narrow edge 

 is so deeply indented, and at the same time 

 folded, that the front portion overhangs 

 the rostral shield, forms one projecting 

 angle flanked by two smaller projections 



Calymene rostrata Vogdes. . , . i « ^i ti ii 



The j?iabe}ia and fixed cheeks opposite the axial iarrows,exactiy like the 



showing the projecting pro- i- - i . • i ^ ^ i- 



cess. salient and re-entering angles oi a lorti- 



fication." Our species has only the central triangular projection, 

 the margins of which are deflected, and the marginal border unites 

 and forms a triangular projection, directly in front and on the 

 median line. 



The following characteristics are drawn from three specimens, 

 consisting of the glabella and fixed cheeks, and many pygidia 

 found associated with them at the same locality. 



The glabella is convex and widens out postei'iorly, being 

 contracted in front ; the sides are marked with three lobes, 

 the basal one large, the middle lobe nearly spherical, the third 

 is somewhat obscurely defined. The fixed cheeks are separated 

 from the glabella by deep dorsal furrows, but opposite the eyes 

 the furrows are restricted by a buttress thrown across it, nearl}- 

 touching the middle side lobes ; the cheeks are gibbous but 

 not elevated above the glabella, thej'^ are narrow along the 

 sides of the glabella and widen out laterally from the eyes. 

 The facial sutures cut the posterior angles of the head, but 

 anteriorly from the eyes these lines run almost straight with 

 a slight tendency outward, and pass over tlie injirgin/ ^The 

 neck furrow is continued nearly to the posterior angles of the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



head. The frontal limb is triangular in outline, and prolonged 

 into a prominent projection, the bourrelet of the limb is defined 

 by a triangular ridge which forms the base of the projection. 

 The projection is formed by the thickening of the crust and by 

 the union of the outer marginal borders along the median line, it 

 is pointed and has its sides deflected. The space between the front 

 of the glabella and the base of the projection is somewhat de- 

 pressed. 



The pygidium is obtusel}' triangular, with the front greatly 

 arched in uncrushed specimens, but this character seems to be 

 confined to the medium-sized specimens ; the larger forms are not 

 so much arched, and correspond in this respect to tj'pical p3'gidia 

 of C. hhimenhachii. The axis occupies along the anterior border 

 about one-third of the width of the tail, and gradually tapers 

 posteriorly into an obtuse point ; it is marked with about eight or 

 nine articulations, the anterior one being slightly arched forwards, 

 but the others are extended almost straight Fi- 2. 



across it. The dorsal furrows are well defined. 

 The lateral lobes are marked with five pairs of 

 ribs, four of which are grooved and double half- 

 way up ; they are contracted along the dorsal 

 furrows, but widen out laterallv. The ribs curve caiymene rostrata 

 downwards and backwards, and are separated dium usnaiiy round 



at'sociated with the 



from each other hy well-defined grooves, the head. 



last pair unite and form a ridge extending around the posterior 



termination of the axis. 



Geological Position. — Clinton Group, Ta^'lor's Ridge, near 

 Catoosa Station ; and also at Dug Gap, Georgia. 



Among the trilobite specimens which I have collected in 

 Georgia, there are tliree movable cheeks and one pygidium 

 showing a strong resemblance to the same parts of Caiymene. 

 Clintoni as figured l»y Prof. Ilall in Pal. X. Y., vol. ii, pi. 60 a, 

 fig. 5. These fragments Avere found associated with two glabella*, 

 having characteristics not shown bj- the illustrations of the species 

 just referred to; tlicrefore, for the purpose of comparison, I 

 carried the specimens to the American Museum, and through the 

 courtesy, of Prof. Whitfield was enabled to study the trilobites 

 found in the Clinton Group of New York. The Georgia forms 

 arc almost identical with tliose of New York, Init show some 




ITS 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



variations from the t3pical C. Clintoni ; I shall, therefore, 

 describe these fragments. 



Calymene Clintoni Vanuxem. 



Glabelhi slightly convex, the base broad, so as to form a nearl}' 

 equilateral triangle. The sides are marked with tliree lobes, the 

 posterior one being twice as large as the middle lobe, but the 

 anterior one is ill-defined. The dorsal furrows are deep. The 

 occipital ring triangular in front, and narrowing out laterall}'. 

 The frontal limb is broad, and equal to half the length of the 

 glabella, and arched in fi'ont. It is worthy of remark that this 

 character is not common to the minute glabella found in the same 

 beds. The fixed cheeks have a buttress thrown across them 

 extending along the sides of the glabella, but this 

 does not elevate them above it. The movable 

 cheeks are triangular in outline, and posteriorly 

 extended into spines, and correspond to those 

 figured by Prof. Hall, Pal. N. Y., vol. ii, pi. 66 a, 

 fig. .5, c. The}' are convex laterally along their 

 inner half, and grooved near the outer margin, which 

 ^,. . . is defined by a raised border. The pygidium is 



Calymene Clintoni •■ ^"^ " 



Vanuxem The triangular in outline, and resembles the figure of 



glabella and fixed " ^ 



cheeks showingthe this part giveu bv Prof. Hall, Pal. N. Y., vol. ii, 



The axis is 



Fiu 



wide frontal limb. 



Fig. 4. 



pi. 66 a, fig. 5 a, d, except in size, 

 marked with about eight articulations. The lateral 

 lobes are not marked with ribs, as usual in Caly- 

 mene, and in this respect the pj^gidium bears some 

 resemblance to that of C. arago and C. salteri, two 

 European forms found in the Lower Silurian, and 

 described bv Rousault in 1849. 



Geological Position. — Clinton Group, Catoosa 



Calymene Clintoni Station ; also iu the Heuiatltic bed at Dug Gap, 



Vanuxem. The rt 

 movable cheek. Georgia. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 179 



CAECINOLOGICAL NOTES, No. 3. -REVISION OF THE GENUS OCYPODA. 

 BY J. S. KI.VGSLEY. 



'0' The following paper is based on the Collections of the Acaderaj-. 

 t have observed the rule adopted in previous papers of following 

 the locality from which I have seen specimens, by an exclamation 



-^ point. In all other cases the name of t4ie person who has reported 

 'A species from any place follows that of the locality. The same 

 conservative spirit which pervades my paper on the "Fiddler 

 Crabs " (Gelasiim) will be found in this. Many of the characters 

 given by authors prove to be of no specific value, but I haxe not 

 A'«ntured to unite forms unless I had specimens which corre- 

 sponded to each nominal species. 



^i.j,,j. OCYPODA Fabricius. 



Cancer I. c, Fabr. Ocypoda Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst.. 347 (1798;; 

 Edw., Hist. Nat. Cmst., 11, p. 41 (1837j ; Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex. 

 .^^.^,j^ Crust., p. 324 (1852,>. 



■' Garapax transverse, rhomboidal or nearly square. Kvls -tout, 

 -the cornea occupying the larger portion. Meros of external 

 maxillipeds shorter than ischium. Chelipeds unequal. 



In man}- species there is a stridulating organ composed of a 

 row of tubercles on the inner surface of the palm, which, by being 

 drawn across a ridge on the ischium of the cheliped, produces a 

 noise. 



§ 1. Ocular jyediceh prolonged beyond the cornea as a sjnne 

 or style. 



1. 0. ceratophthalma Fabr. 



Cancer ceratophthalmus Pallas, Spicelegia, p. 83, PI. V, f. 17(1772). 

 . Ocypoda ceratopliUialma Fabr., 1. c, 347 (17S8) ; Latreille, Hist. 

 •»eo<>>'' Crust, et Ins., vi, 47 (1803-4) ; Encyc. Meth., x, PI. 274, f. 1 ; La- 

 marck, Hist. Animaux saus Vert., v, 252 (1818) ; Desiuarcst, Consid. 

 surle Crustaces, 121, PI. XII, f. 1 (182.5) ; Edw., Hist. Nat. (.rust., 

 ii, p. 48 (1837); III. Edit. Regne Animal, PI. XVII, f. 1 ; Ann. Sci. 

 Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 141 (1852) ; Krauss, S. African Crust., p. 41 

 (1843) ; Stimpsou, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 100 ; Hess, Archiv. 

 fiir Naturgeschichte, XXXI, 143 (1865); Martens, Verhandl. Zool. 

 Bot. Gesellscb. AVien, 18(50, p. 381 ; Heller, Reise Novanv, Crust., p. 

 42 (18G7); Hili^endorf in v. Deckens Reise, Crust., p. 82, 1867; 

 A. >I.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 270 (1873). Cancer 

 cursor Herbst., PI. I, f. 8-9 (1790). Ocypoda brecicornis Edw., 




ISO PROGEEDINQS OF THE ACAPEMY OF [1880. 



Hist. Crust., ii, 48 (1837); Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, 143 (1852) ; 

 Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex. Crust, p. 326, PI. XX, f. 3 (18);2,|, 

 Ocypoda breeicornis var longicornuta Dana, 1, c., ?^7,, I*!, ^X, 

 f. 4 (1852). Ocypoda legyptica (ierstaecker, Avchiv. fur Natnr- 

 gescliichte, xxii, 134 (185G) ; IlcUer, Sitzungsbericlite Wicn Akad., 

 xliii, p. 361 (1861) ; Hoflmaun, Kecli. Fauna Madagascar Crust., p. 

 14 (1874 teste Zool. Itecord) ; Miers, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., V, 

 ii, 409 (18781. 



Cnrapax nearl^y square, granulate, front strongly deflexed, orbits 

 sinuate, oblique, the lateral angles being far behind the front. 

 These angles are nearly right angles. Orbits with an indistinct 

 fissure below. Eyes terminated with a st^de which in most cases is 

 long and cylindrical, extending far beyond the orbits. In the 

 young, however, it is small and in some cases even wanting; that 

 form, when small and conical, characterizes the nominal species 

 hrevicornis ; maxillipeds granulate. Meros of larger cheliped, 

 with the margins armed with spiniform tubercles, more prominent 

 on the anterior margins. Carpus granulate, with internally one 

 or two teeth. Hand externally acute, tuberculate, serrate below, 

 the inner surface with scattered tubercles. Stridulating ridge at 

 some distance from the base of the fingers, straight and composed 

 of rounded tubercles. Ambulatory feet Avith acute granules, 

 which exhibit a tendency to arrange themseh'^es in rugfe. 



Natal ! (E. Wilsonl ; Mauritius ! (Guerin's Collection) ; Anjir, 



Ternaie, Amholna, Adenare, Zanzibar, Benkula (Hilgendorfj ; 



Sandioich Is., Tahiti, Bonin, Loo Ghoo, Hong Kong Ouisma iStm. ); 



Egypt, Mauritius, Bombay, Australia ( Edw. ) ; Ceylon and Nicobars 



(Heller) ; Madagascar (Hoffmann) ; Tongatabu (Dana). 



A specimen collected by the Wilkes Expedition ('' East Indies '') 

 has the carapax intermediate between this species and cursor. 

 The ocular styles are wanting. Milne-Edwards' figure in the 

 Regne Animal is different from any specimens that I have seen. 

 [ agree with Kossmnnn in considering aegyptica as but a variety 

 of ceratophthalma. 



2. 0. platytarsia Edw. 



Ocypoda platytarsis Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 141 (1852) ; 

 ■r y^ Heller, Reise Novara Crust., p. 42 (1867;. 



Carapax wider than is usual in this genus and covered with 

 large granules. Superior margin of orbit sinuate, the external 

 angles rounded'; sides parallel about one-fourth of their length. 

 Orbits with an indistinct fissure balow. Eyes spincd as in ceratoph- 




1880.] NATURAL SCJKXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



thdilfha (teste Edw., the single specimen I have seen has the ejes 

 broken). External mnxillipeds granulate; meros of larger cheli- 

 pe(I )vith the upper margin produced and dentate, the lower 

 ppine^,,, ih^ , l)08terior with transverse granular rugae, carpus 

 granulate; hand with large granules, serrate below, stridulating 

 ridges carved and compo.sed of crowded granules. Ambulatory 

 feet with rugte and subspiniform tubercles, dactyli broad. 



Pondicherry \ Guerin's Collection (labelled by Guerin "Ocypoda 

 platytarsis, Edw., Cat. Mus., Paris") and probably one of the 

 ..,|.(j I original specimens). Tahiti and Nicobars (Heller). 



3. 0. urvillei Guurin. 



Ocypoda nrvillei Guerin, Voyage Coquille, Crust, p. 9, PI. I, 1'. 

 1 (1836), Edw. Hist. Crust., II, p. 49 (1837 1, Ann. Sci. Nat. HI, 

 xviii, p. 141 (1852), Owen in Beecbey's Voyage Crust., p. 80 (1839 , 

 Dana, U. S. Ex. Exp. Crust., 328, PI. XX, f . 5 (1852). 



Carapax wider than long, superior margin of orbit sinuate, 

 angles acute. Ej'es moderate, ocular spines short, extending onl}- 

 to angles of orbit. Meros of larger cheliped rounded above, its 

 two other margins denticulate. Carpus with a strong internal 

 spine. Hand externally granulate, serrate above and below ; the 

 stridulating ridge nearly straight, a little remote from the fingers 

 and extending from the lower margin of the hand two-thirds of 

 the way to the upper. (Guerin.) 



Tahiti (GwQvm) ; Me Bouron (Edw.) ; Sandtcich Is. (Dana . 



4. 0. macrocera E Jw. 



Ocypoda macrocera Edw. Hist. Nat. Ciiist., II, 49 (1837), Ann. Sci. Xnt. 

 IV, xviii, p. 142 (1852), Heller, Novara Ci-ust., p. 142 (1867). 



Orbits wide, oblique, angle obtuse, eyes with a spine as in O. 

 ceratophthalma. Larger hand veiy short, broad and a little- 

 spinose above ; its palmar portion broader than long. The fingers 

 of the smaller hand lamellate and very broad at their extremities. 

 Ambulatory feet roughened above. (Edw.) 



E. Indies, Pondicherry, {?] Brazil (Edw.) ; Tahiti, Nicobars i Heller . 



5. 0. gaudichaudi Edwards ot Lucas. 



Ocypoda fjaudichaudi Edw. et Lucas in D'Orbigny's Voyjige, Crust., 

 1.. 2G, PI. XI, f. 4 (184:^ , Edw. Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xviii. 142 il8,VJ\ 

 Nicollet in (iay's Chili, Zool. Ill, p. 103 (1840 \ Stimpson, Ann. N.Y. 

 Lye. Nat. Hist., VH, p. 61 (1859) ; Smith, Kcp. Peab. Acad. Sci.. 

 Ill, p. 91 (1871) ; Streets, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1872, p. 240. 



Carapax longitudinally strongly arcuate, distal portion of l'rt)nt 

 nearly vertical. Superior border of orbit sinuate internally, it^ 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAT>EMT OF [1880. 



external throe-fourtlis nearly straight and directed slightly back- 

 wards. Lateral angles nearly right angles, the sides behind them 

 being concave for about a fifth of the length of the carapax; 

 orbits with a deep median fissure below. Eyes with a short conical 

 st3'le reacliing to, or slightly beyond, the angle of the orbit. 

 External maxillipeds nearly smooth, or with a few inconspicuous 

 granules. Meros of larger cheliped with the upper and lower 

 mai'gins spino-tuberculate, the posterior with transverse rugai. 

 Carpus granulate ; hand subspinose above, finely serrate below, 5 

 internally granulate and with a well-marked transverse stridulat- 

 ing ridge, fingers lamellate, the extremities truncate. 



Chili \ Guerin ; Panama ! Capt. Field and McNiel (Phila. Acad.) ; 

 Gulf of Fonseca ! McNiel (Peab. Acad.) ; CaZZaofEdw. et Lucas) ; 

 Valparaiso (Dana). 



6. 0. fabricii Edw. 



Oct/j}odaf((bricii'Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., II, p. 47 (1837), Ann Set. 

 Nat. XVIII, p. 142 (1853), Hilgendorf in Decken's Reise Crust., 82, 

 PI. Ill, £.1(1867). ..u^uvn. 



Carapax convex, finely granulate, front strongly deflexed, 

 orbits strongl}^ sinuate ; lateral angles acute and some distance 

 posterior to the base of the rostrum; sides parallel for about a' '^ 

 third of the length of the carapax. Orbits without emargination ' 

 below; e3'es with a short conical style, not reaching beyond the ''^ 

 orbital angle. Anterior margin of meros of larger cheliped cren- 

 ulate, distally spinose, posterior margin rounded, rugose. Carpus 

 granulate, as is the outside of the hand ; inner surfoce of the 

 hand polished, with minute scattered granules ; stridulating ridge 

 straight, composed of small, closely set granules ; lower margin 

 of hand finely serrate ; fingers of moderate length. Joints of 

 ambulatory feet with transverse ruga?. 



Australia ! E. Wilson ; Natal ! E. Wilson ; Oceanica (Edw.) ; Zan- 

 zibar (Hilgendorf). 



7. 0. cursor. ° 



Cancer cursor Linn., Syst. Nat. Edit., xii, p. 1039 (1766). Ocypoda 

 ippeus Olivier, Voyage, p. 234, PI. XXX, f. 1 (1807); Savigny, Egypt, 

 PL I, f. 1; Lamarck, An. sans Vert., v, p. 252 (1817); Desra., Coa-, . 

 sid. Crust, p. 121 (1825); Edw., Hist. Cru.st., ii, p. 47 (1837); Mose-.|, 

 ley. Notes by a Naturalist on the Challenger, pp. 48-49, woodcut, 

 1879. Ocypoda cursor DeHaan, Fauna Japonica, Crust., p. 29; Edw.,' 

 Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xviii, p. 142 (1852); Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., ■ 

 1858, p. 100; Heller, Crust. S. Europa, p. 99 (1863). 




1880,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Carapax arcuate, front strongly depressed. Upper margin of 

 orbits but slightly sinuate and nearl}' transverse. Lateral angles 

 acute, the sides converging posteriorly, making the carapax widest 

 at the angles. Orbits below with a slight median fissure. Eyes 

 terminated by a short conical style armed with pencil of hairs. 

 Meral joint of cheliped with the spines and rugse much less 

 prominent than in 0. cerafopJif.halma. Carpus internally with a 

 denticulated tooth. Hands small, externall}' with depressed 

 granules, the lower margin finely serrate, the upper rounded and 

 without spiniform tubercles. Internally the hand is nearly smooth 

 except below where there are granules similar to those of the 

 outside. The stridulating ridge* is very near the fingers and is 

 crossed by numerous fine striie. The propodal joints of the 

 ambulatory feet spined below, the dactyli of the second pair hairy. 



Senegal/ (Guerin) ; Syria, Egypt (Edw.) ; Cape Verdes (Auct.); 

 Greece (Guerin). 



This is probably the species described by Hasselquist (Iter 

 Palestinum, p. 433, 1157) under the name Cancer anomalus, but 

 he gives many characters which will apply to no known decapod 

 and so to avoid confusion I refrain from applying his name to 

 this species. McLeay, in Smith's Zoology of South Africa, men- 

 tions " Ceratophthalma cursor DeHaan," an expression not to be 

 found in the pages of that Dutch Carcinologist. 



8. 0. ryderi Nov. 



Carapax coarsel}' granulate, the iipper margins of the orbits 

 sinuate, transverse, lateral angles acute, sides arcuate, the carapax 

 being widest at the anterior third, as in 0. arenaria, the lateral 

 margins anteriorly finely serrate. 



Eyes not reaching the extremities of the orbits, terminated b}' 

 a minute spine. Chelipeds like those of 0. arenaria ; ambulatory 

 feet roughened b}" subspiniform granidos. 



Natal! (E. Wilson*. 



This species is closel}^ allied to the Ocypoda arenaria of the 

 coasts of America, but is readily separated hy the ocular spines 

 and the granulations on the ambulatory foet. It is dedicated to 

 ni}' friend, John A. Ryder, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadeluhia. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



§ II. Eyi'i< ivithout an oculor ftpiue. 

 9. 0. arenaria Sny. 



Cincer arenaritis Catcsby, History of the Carolinas, ii, PI. 3") (1731 

 and 1771*). Cancer quadratiis Fabr., Ent. Syst., ii, p. 439 (1793). 

 Ocypoda qiuidrata Fab., Suppl., p. 347 (1798); Bosc. Edit., 1, "i, p. 

 194;" (teste Auct.) Edit., II, i, p. 247 (1828 ; Latr., Hist. Crust, et 

 lus., vi, p. 49 (1803-4). Ocypoda arenaria Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Phila., i, p. 69 (1817); Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 44, PI. 

 XIX, f. 13-14 (1837); DeKay, N. Y. Fauna, Crust., p. 13 (1841); 

 Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii, p. 180 (1851); Gerstacker, Arch, fiir 

 Naturg., xxii, p. 36 (1850 ; Guerin in La Sagra's Hist. Cuba, Crust., 

 p. 7 (1857); Martens, Arch, fiir Naturges., xxxviii, p. 103(1872; 

 Smith. U. S. Fish Comm. Report for 1871-72, p. 545 (1875); Kings- 

 ley, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1878, p. 322. Ocypoda albicans Latr., Encyc. 

 Meth., X, PI. 285, f. 1 (after Catesby vix 0. albicans Bosc). Ocy- 

 poda rhombea Edw., Hist. Nat. Ci'ust., ii, p. 46 (1837) ; Ann. Sci. 

 Nat., in, xviii, p. 143 (1852); Gibbes, 1. c, p. 180 (1851); Dana, 

 • U.S. Ex. Exp. Crust., p. 322, PI. XIX, f. 8 (1852); Heller, Reise Novara, 

 Crust., p. 42 (1867); Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 135 (1870); 

 Streets, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1872, p. 240. Monolepis inermis Say, 

 1. c. p. 157 (Megalops). 



Carai)ax convex, granulate above, front but little deflexed ; 

 lateral angles of carapax acute, extending as far forward as the 

 middle of the front. Lateral margin crenulate, arcuate, the 

 carapax being widest at the anterior third. Orbits below with 

 spiniform tubercles and occasionally a distinct emargination. 

 Eyes with the extremities rounded and not reaching to the 

 extremity of the orbit. Chelipeds with spines and tubercles ; the 

 meros with the upper and lower margins spined, the posterior 

 rounded and crossed by tubercular ruga?. Carpus with the 

 tubercles obsolete above but pronounced near the margins, the 

 inner mai'gin armed with one or more strong spiniform teeth. 

 Hands tuberculate, the upper margin spined, the lower serrate. 

 A tubercular stridulating ridge on the inside near the fingers. 

 Fingers strongly inflexed. Ambulatory feet compressed, hairy, 

 their sides smooth, the upper portion margined and crossed b}^ 

 transverse rugje. 



* There were at lea.st two editions of Catesby published, bearing dates 

 respectively as above and as the second is post-Linnean, the names employed 

 by him must hold. I think that another edition exists in the library of 

 the Essex Institute at Salem, Mass., the date of which is between those 

 (juoted above, but I have nothing at hand by which to decide the matter. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Young specimens (less than 10 mm. broad) have the latei-al 

 angle further hack than in the adult, while the spines of the 

 chelipeds are wanting or but faintlj' imlicated. 



The 0. albicans of Bosc, Lamarck and Desmarest has the 

 eves terminated by a style, a feature I have never observed in 

 any specimen of 0. arenaria. The locality given is South Caro- 

 lina. The 0. rhomhea of Fabricius is not this species, as his 

 expression ^^ Carpus vtrinque ^inidenfafis, manibus sublaevis ^'' will 

 not apply to this form, but agrees better with 0. cordimono. 

 Fal»ricius gives no locality for his specimens. The Brazilian 

 forms (rhombea Auct.) show no differences from northern sjjeci- 

 mens. I have seen specimens from over thirty localities embraced 

 in the limits of Great Egg Harbor, X. J. (Say's types), to Rio 

 Janeiro, Brazil, and also specimens from the west coast of Mexico 

 (Dr. W. H. Jones). 



10. 0. ooavezns Qnoy and Gaimard. 



Ocypoda convexun Quoy et Gaimard, Voy. Uranie, Zool., iii, p. 52.5, PI. 

 LXX^'II, f. 2 (1828 ; Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 49 (1837). 



Carapax granulate, sides arcuate, front deflexed, orbits sinuate, 

 lateral angles behind the base of the rostrum, acute. Meros 

 internally entire, distally tuberculate ; carpus tuberculate, its 

 inner surface with a bifid tubercle. Hands cordate, externally 

 granulate, serrate above and below. 



This brief description is taken from the figure of MM. Quoy 

 and Gaimard. I have never seen the species. It is said to have 

 come from Australia. 



11. 0. cordimana Desm. 



? Ocypoda rhombea Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 348 il798). Ocypoda 

 cordimana Desm., Consid. .sur les Crustaces, p. 121 (1825); Edw., 

 Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 45 (1837 1; Ann. Sci. Xat. HI, xviii, p. 14:j 

 fl852^; Jacquinot et Lucas, Voy. Astrolabe et Zelee, p. 64; Heller, 

 Reise Xovara Crust., p. 42 (1867); A. M. Edw., Nouv. Arch. Mus., 

 ix, p. 271 (1872 1. Ocypoda rhombea ? Desmarest, 1. c, p. 122; Ran- 

 dall, Jom-. Pliila. Acad., viii, p. 128. Ocypoda pallidula Jacquinot 

 et Lucas, 1. c, PI. VI. f. 4. Ocypoda hecis Dana, U. S. Expl. Exj)ed., 

 Crust., p. 325, PI. XX, f . 2 (1852). ? Ocypoda conrexa Stm., Proc. 



Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 100. 



« 



Carapax arcuate, evenly granulate. Front strongly deflexed. 

 Orbits sinuate above ; lateral angles acute, but not extending as 

 far forward as the base of the front. Sides in the adult slighth" 

 13 




186 rROCEEPlNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



arcuate, luit in the young the}' are parallel or even concave, con- 

 verging behind. Eyes, without styliform process, and extending 

 nearly or quite to the orbital angle. Meros of ehelipeds with its an- 

 terior margin erenulate in the j'oung, in the adult with spiniform 

 tubercles. Carpus externally granulate. Hand short, broad, 

 cordate, granulate internally and externally, its lower margin 

 serrate, the stridulating ridge nearly obsolete. Fingers short, 

 compressed, the thumb slightly hooked at the extremity. Meral 

 joints of the ambulatory feet with transverse rugae. Carpal and 

 propodal joints similarly roughened and covered with a short 

 pubescence. 



New Zealand ! Mauritius ! (Guerin) ; Australia ! (E. Wilson); Sand- 

 wich Is. ! (J. K. Townsend) ; Tahiiil (A. Garrett) ; Mozambique 

 and Zanzibar (Hilgeudorfj ; Red Sea, Manilla, Nicobars (Heller) ; 

 Hong Kong, Loo CJwo (Stm.) ; Japan (Edw.). 



The following are not true members of the genus : 



0. angulatus Latr. = Gonoplaz angulatus. 



0. aurantia Bosc. ex Herbst = Thelphusa auranlia. 



O. carnifex Latr. ex Herbst = Cardiosoma carnifex. 



O. heterochelos Bosc. = Gelasimus heterochelos. 



Ot hispana Bosc. ex Herbst = Sesarma sp. 



0. hydrodromus Latr. ex Herbst = Thelphusa hydrodromus. 



0. longimana Latr. = Gonoplax rhomboidalis. 



0. maracoani Latr. = Gelasimus maracoani. 



O. macrocheles Bosc. = ? Macrophthalmus sp. 



0. pugtllator Bosc. = Gelasimus pugillator. 



O. quadrata Bosc. = Sesama sp. 



0. rufopunctata Latr. ex Herbst = Trapezia rufopunctata. 



O. »enex Latr. ex Fabr = Thelphusa sp. 



O. tetragonon Bosc. ex Herbst = Gelasimus tetragonon. 

 0. tridens Latr. ex Fabr. = ? Fachygrapsus sp. 



O. vocans Latr. = Gelasimus sp. 



I. have not been able to identifj* 

 0. granulata Bosc. (Edit, if) p. 247. 

 0. maeleayana Hess, Archiv. fiir Naturgesch., XXXI, p 14-3. PI. VI, f. 8 



(1865). Australia. 



0. unispinosa Rafinesque, Precis de decouvertes Semiologique:?, p. 21, No. 



as (1814). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



CAECINOLOGICAL NOTES, No. IV.— SYNOPSIS OF THE GEAPSIDS:. 

 BY J. S. KINGSLKY. 



The following papei- is a continuation of my .studies of the 

 Catometopa contained in the Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. In it I have endeavored to embrace 

 every known species of the family with sufficient references to 

 their geographical distribution. To aid in the identifications of 

 species I have compiled analytical tables for most of the genera, 

 but descriptions are given of onh' those species of which I have 

 examined specimens. I have reduced considerably the number 

 of nominal species, but believe that I am full}' warranted in rele- 

 gating to s3'nonymy many so-called species founded on size, color, 

 geographical distribution, or variations of minor importance. All 

 localities from which I have examined specimens are marked with 

 an exclamation point (!), The classification employed is mainly 

 that of Dana, in the U. S, Exploring Expedition Crustacea (1852) ; 

 those of Milne-Edwards (Annales des Sciences Xatnrelles, III 

 Series, Zoologie, tome xx, pp. 16.3-200, 1853), and Kossmann 

 (Zoologische Ergebnisse, Reise in die Kiistengebiete des rothen 

 Meeres, 18T7), being comparatively worthless. Owing to the 

 limited amount of space at my disposal, the synonymy and bibli- 

 ography have been condensed as far as possible. 



Family GRAPSID.ffl Dana. (Orapaoidiens M. Edw.). 



Carapax subquadrate, depressed. Front generally broad. Eyes 

 short. Antennulie transversely plicate. Epistome short, some- 

 times linear. Meros of the external maxillipeds bearing the palpus 

 at the summit or at its external angle. Second joint of the abdo- 

 men of the male nearly as wide as the adjacent portion of the 

 sternum. 



The Grapsidse are all inhabitants of the temperate or tropical 

 waters, and generally live near the shores. A few, however (e.g. 

 Naxdilograpsus and Varuna)^ live on the high seas. The family 

 may conveniently be divided into two' sub-families, l)y characters 

 derived from the antenn;e. In the Grapsinse the antenna* are 



' The characters given by Dana for the SesarmiuEe I do not consider of 

 sufficient importance to warrant its retention as a sub family, and would 

 rather consider it as a group of the Grapsinit. 




188 PUOCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



eovorod by the front ; iu the Flagiisinac they are received into 

 notches in the front and are visible from above. 



Analytical Key to the Genera of the Grapsidse. 



Antemite covered by the front. GRAPSIN^. 



External maxilHpeds without a piliferous ridge. Gkapsini. 



External niaxillipeds widely gaping. 

 Antennas excluded from the orbit. 

 Meros of the external maxillipeds as long as the ischium. Goniopsis. 

 Meros of the external maxillipeds shorter than the ischium. 



3Ieto2^ograpsus. 

 Antennte entering the orbit. 

 Front less than half the width of the carapax. 

 No tooth behind the orbital angle. Epigrapsus. 



One tooth behind the orbital angle. 



Fingers of cheliped excavate. Grapsus. 



Fingers acuminate. 



Sides straight. Orthograpsus. 



Sides arcuate in front. Geograpsus. 



Two teeth behind the orbital angle. Leptograpsus. 



More than two teeth behind the angle of the orbit. 



Male abdomen five-jointed, antennulae transverse, front 

 straight. Grapsodes. 



Male abdomen seven-jointed, antennulse oblique, front exca- 

 vate . Cyrtograpsus. 

 Front more than half the width of the carapax. 



Carapax transverse. Pachy grapsus, 



Carapax longer than broad. NauUlograpsus. 



External maxillipeds without a rhomboidal gape. 

 Palpus articulating with the inner angle of the meros of the external 

 maxilliijeds. 



One tooth behind the orbital angle. BracJiygrajisus. 



Several teeth behind the orbital angle. Euchirograpsus. 



Palpus articulating with middle of the anterior margin of the meros 

 of the external maxillipeds. 



Exognath of external maxillipeds very broad. Ptychognathus. 

 Exognath much narrower than the ischium. 

 Sides of carapax entire. Acmmopleura, 



Sides of carapax dentate. 



External distal angle of the meros of the external maxilli- 

 peds expanded. 

 Joints of ambulatory feet rounded, dactyli styliform. 



Pseudograpsus. 

 Ambulatoiy feet compressed, dactyli flattened, natato- 

 rial . Varuna. 

 Meros of external maxillipeds not expanded. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Meros of external maxillipeds broader than lonff. 



Meros as long as ischium. Olyptogrupam. 



Meros shorter than iscliium. Utica. 



Meros as long or longer than broad. 



Front nearly half as wide as carapax. Heterograpsus. 

 Front not over one-third as wide as carapax. Kriocheir. 

 Palpus articulating with the outer angle of the meros of the ex- 

 ternal maxilliped. 



One tooth behind the orbital angle. Perigrapsm. 



More than one tooth behind the orbital angle. Plntygrapsug. 

 External maxillipeds with an oblique piliferous ridge. Sesarmini. 



Meros of external maxilliped elongate, its apex rounded. 



Antennae excluded from the orbit. Metasesarma. 



Antennae not excluded from the orbit. 

 Carapax subquadrate, sides arcuate, 

 .loints of ambulatory feet entire. Sunnatium. 



Joints of ambulatory feet dentate. Rhaconotus. 



Carapax quadrate, sides straight. Sesarma. 



Carapax elongate, narrowed behind. Aratus. 



Meros of external maxilliped short, its distal border truncate or even 

 excavate, and bearing the palpus. 



Antennae excluded from the orbit. Clistocoiloma. 



Antennai entering the orbit. 

 Sides of carapax straight. Helice, 



Sides arcuate. 



Sides entire. Cyclograpms. 



Sides emarginate or toothed. Chasmagnathus. 



Antennae lodged in notches in the front, and visible from above. 



PLAGUSIN^. 

 Meros of external maxillipeds large, as broad as ischium. Pliigusia, 



Meros small and much narrower than ischium. Leiolophus. 



Sub-family Grapsinse (Orapsina et Sesarmince Dana). 

 Antennulae more or less transverse, and covered by the front. 



Tribe GRAPSIXI (Sub-family Grapsinse Dana). 



§ External maxillipeds without an oblique piliferous ridge on 

 the ischial and meral joints. 



Genuj! GONIOPSIS De Haan, 1S.35 {Gonwgrnpsnfi (par.") Dana. ISol). 



Carapax flat ; front vertical, over half as veide as carapax ; 

 sides straight, one-toothed. Suborbital lobe broad, reaching the 

 front and excluding the antenna from the orbit. Ext«'rnal max- 

 illipeds slender ; mcral and ischial joints of ecpial length. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18S0. 



1. G cruentatus De Hann ^j- Latreille. 



Ctinctr rurieohi De Goer. Memoirs pour servir a I'Hist. Insectes, vii, 



417, PI. XXV, 1778 (non Liune). 

 ' Grapsfis cnie/ttatt/s Latreille. Histoire Naturelle des Crust, et Ins., 



vi, p. 70 (1803-4). 

 Goniop»is criientatiis De Haan. "Fauna Japonica Crust., p. 33 (1835). 

 Grapsiis longipes Randall. Jour. Pliila. Acad., viii, p. 125 (1839). 

 Goniops^is 7-uricohi White. List Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 40 (1847). 

 Grap,^ug pelli Herklots. Additamcnta ad Faunam Carcinologicam 



African Occidentalis. 8, PI. I, f. C-7 (1851). 

 Gonin(jrnp8vs crnentatvs Dana. U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 343, 



PI. XXL f. 7 (1852). 



Front granulate, supra-frontal lobes four, margins crenulate, 

 orbits entire above, distally emarglnate. Carapax with oblique 

 transverse ridges. Anterior margin of meros of chelipeds ex- 

 panded, dentate, the upper and lower margins with spiniform 

 tubercles, as is also the upper margin of carpus. Hands with 

 spiniform tubercles above and below, the middle of the outer sur- 

 face smooth, the inner surface with scattered prominent granules. 

 Thumb and finger sub-excavate, the latter spinose above. Ambu- 

 latory feet compressed and armed with stiff black bristles. Pos- 

 terior angle of meros of last pair rounded, in the other feet 

 dentate. 



Florida! (H. E. Webster, in "Union College Museum) ; Bahamas! 

 Cuba! (H.F.Baker); Surinam! (Dr. Bering, Randall's type of 

 G. longipes) ; Gaboon, W. Africa (Du Chaillu) ; West Coast of 

 Nicaragua ! (J. A. McNiel, in Museum of Peabody Academy) ; 

 Tropical Seas of America (Auct. ). 



Genus METOPOGEAPSUS M.-Edw., 1853. 



Front more than half the width of carapax, deflexed. Sides 

 straight. Internal suborbital lobe very broad, reaching the front 

 and excluding the antenna from the orbit. Meros of external 

 raaxilliped short, much broader than long. 



Key to Species. 

 Antero-lateral margin entire. 



Frontal margin sinuate. messor. 



Frontal margin straight. latifrons. 



Antero-lateral margin toothed. oceanicua. 



M. messor Edwards ex Forskal. 



Cancer messor Forskal. Descr. An. in Itin. Observ., p. 88 (1775). 

 Grapsus gairaardii Andouin, Expl. PI. Savigny (teste Edw.). 

 Grapms messor 'Etd^ ■ Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 88 (1887). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 101 



Orapstis thnkuhar Owen, In Beechey's Voyage, Zoology, p. 80, PI, 



XXIV, f. 3 (1839). 

 Grapgiis prirnlleluH Randall. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. viii, p. 



127 (1839). 

 MetopogropsnK mesaor, i/ntkuhar, eydouxi et iiitevmedinx Edw. Ann, 



Sci. Nat., Ill, XX, p, 165 (1853). 



Carapa;x slightly narrowed behind, plications and rug;e more 

 or less distinct. Frontal lobes rather prominent, frontal margin 

 sinuate, smooth or crenulate at the angles, Aleros of chelipeds 

 with the j)Osterior surface rugose, the anterior margin expanded 

 and distally truncate, a few spinose teeth near the base and 

 several on the truncate margin. Carpus externally rugose, inter- 

 nally with a prominent bifid or quadrifid tubercle. Hands with 

 oblique folds above and below, and a longitudinal ridge on the 

 lower outer surface. Fingers sub-excavate. Last joint of male 

 abdomen but slightly narrower than penult joint. 



Sandwich Is. ! (Nuttall, Pease, Jones, Wilkes' Expedition ; Tahiti! 

 (A. J. Garrett); Australia! (E. Wilson); Mauritius! (Guerin); 

 Aden ; ! Natal! (Dr, T. B, Wilson i ; Indian and Pacific Oceans 



(Auct,) 



M. latifrons Edwards ex White. 



Orapsus latifrons White, in Jukes' Voyai^e of the Fly, ii, p. 337, PI. II, 



f. 2 (1847j. 

 Metopograpsus latifrons et maculatus'E.dw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, pp. 



166 and 165, PI. VII, f. 1 (1853). 

 Metopograpsus pictus A. M.-Edw., Ann. Soc. Ent. France, vii, p. 283 



(1867) ; Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 289. PI. XIII, f. 2 (1873). 



Carapax narrowed behind, plications indistinct ; frontal lobes 

 granulate on the edge. Front broad, nearly straight, margin 

 denticulate. Chelipeds similar to those of M. messor. Base of 

 last joint of male abdomen much narrower than the extremit}' of 

 penult joint. 



Batavia ! (Dr. "Wilson); Singapore (Wliite"!; Jatia (Edw); New Cale- 

 donia (A. M.-Edw.). 



M. oceanions Jacq. et Lucas. 



Metopograpsus (Orapsiis) oceanieus Jacquinot et Lucas, Voyage Astro- 

 labe et Zt'elee, Crust., p. 73, PI. VI, f. 9 (Text 1853, Plates 1842-53). 



Metopograpsus quadridentatus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadel- 

 phia, 1858, p. 102. 

 Pulo Han (J. et L.); near Hong Kong iStni. ) ; Nicobar Is. i Heller). 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADKMY OF [1880. 



Genus EPIGRAPSUS IJeller, lSfi2» ( AV( ^>(/r<i/.«H« Heller, I8f.5). 



Sides arcuate, entire orbits externally open ; external maxilli- 

 peds ixainng, meros shorter than the ischium, rather broad abdo- 

 men of the male live-, of the female seven-jointed. 



£. politUS Heller. 



Epigrapsus politus IlcUer, Verb. Z. B. Ges. Wien, 1862, p. 522. 

 I^'eciograjisxts politus U.G\\ev, Keiseder Novara, Crustaceen, p. 57, PI. V, 

 f. 3 (1805). 



Nicobars ; Tahiti (Heller). 



Genus GRAPSUS Lamarck (restrict). 



Sides arcuate, Avith one tooth beliind the orbital angle; front 

 narrow, deflexed ; autennse entering the orbit. External maxilli- 

 peds slender, gaping ; meros oblong. Fingers of chelipeds exca- 

 vate. 



G. maculatus Edwards ex Catesby. 



Pagurus maculatus Catesby, Nat. Hist, of tbe Carolinas, ii, Plate 

 XXXVI, f. 1 (1743 et 1771).^ 



' Dr. Heller, in his preliminary account of tbe Crustacea collected by 

 tbe Novara Expedition (Verbandl. Zool. Bot. Gesellscbaft, Wien, 1862, pp. 

 519-5281, characterizes several genera and species of which no mention is 

 made in tbe final report. These are Mencethius hrevirostris which is prob- 

 ably Acanthonyx consoirlnus A. Edw. , of tbe final report ; Xa7itho tetraodon 

 is Eudora tetraodon, Curpilodes granulatus appears to be C. tristis Dana. 

 Lupa Tiirsula was probably referred to Neptunus sanguinolenius. Thel- 

 phusa wullerstorfi appears to be /. leschenaudii, Parathelphusa dentipes to be 

 P. irideniata, Helcecius areolatus to be H. cordiformis, Metoplax hirtipes is 

 apparently referred to a new genus, Grapsus depressus is probably 6eo- 

 grapsus crinipes, Grapsus declimfrons is apparently recbristened Paehygrap- 

 sus intermedius, Heterograpsus barbigerus has its specific name altered 

 to barbimanus, Epigrapsus nov. gen. reappears as Nectograpsus uov. 

 gen. with no reason assigned for tbe change. Metasesarma granulatus is 

 redescribed as new under the name rugulosa. Plagusetes elatus is prob- 

 ably, as pointed out by Mr. Miers (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 147, 

 lH78j, Acanthocyclus gayi of the final report. Gelasimus variegatus appears 

 to have been finally referred to G. annullpes. Palinurus paulensis was 

 afterward apparently referred to P. lalandii and Pelias notatus is referred 

 to Anchistia. All this shuffling of names is made without the slightest hint 

 to aid one in coiTelating the two i^apers, and is a proceeding which cannot 

 be too strongly condemned. 



^ There were at least two editions of Catesby bearing dates as above, 

 and as the second appeared thirteen years after the tenth edition of the 

 l>y sterna No tuns oi'Lmwi, and five after the twelfth edition, the names em- 

 ployed by Catesby will hold. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Cancer grapsus Liuu., Syst. Nat., Edit., x, p. G30 (17.58 i. 



Grapsus pictus Latreille, Hist. Crust, etins., vi, p. G9, PI. XL VII, f. 2 



(1803-4.) 

 Goniopsis pictvs De Ilaan, Fauna Japonica Cnxst., p. 33 (^1835). 

 Grapstis stngosus Brull(', in Webb et I'erthelot Hist Canaries, ii, PI. 



II ; Crustacea, p. 15, 1830-44 (teste' Ed w.)' 

 Grapsus laaculatus, webbi, ornatus et pharaonis Edw. , Ann. Sci. Nat. 



pp. 107-8, PI. VI, f. 1 (1853). 

 Grapsus altifrons Stimpson, Annals N. Y. Lyceum Xat. Hist., vli, p. 



230 (1860). 



Carapax depressed, transversely plicate, folds anteriorly 1)roken 

 lip into squamiform tubercles. Frontal crest four-lobed, median 

 lobes the larger, their margins subtuberculate. Frontal margins 

 crenulate, regularly arcuate. Lateral margin arcuate. Inferior 

 border of orbit with a deep fissure. Anterior border of ischium 

 and meros of cheliped spinose, the lower margin of the meros spino- 

 tuberculate, the posterior surface plicate. Carpus with distant 

 tubercles, its interior margin with a laminate spine. Hand above 

 tuberculate, externalh' with longitudinal ridges, below with 

 oblique folds. On the inner surface the tubercles and folds are less 

 prominent. Fingers short, tips excavate. Ambulatory feet com- 

 pressed, propodal and dactylic joint si)inose. 



Florida Keys! (Webster, Ashmead) ; West Indies! (La^vTence, 



Wood, Wilson, Goes, Lea) ; Sun Lorenzo ! (Wilkes' Expedition) ; 



Pernambuco ! (Dr. Wilson); Tahiti! (A. Garrett); W. Coast 



Mexico! (Dr. Jones) ; Central America ! (McXiel); New Zealand! 



(Dr. Wilson); Mauritius! (Guerin) ; Natal! (Dr. Wilson); 



Georgia, California, Pern, St. Helena and CapeVerde Is. (Miersi ; 



Paaviota and Ilaicaian Is. (Dana) ; Honduras ! (no collector's 



name). 



The genus Grapsus, as well as several others, is divided into 

 sections by Milne-Edwards, characterized either by having the 

 posterior distal angle of the meros of the last pair of ambulatory 

 feet regularly rounded, or dentate ; but in specimens of G. macit- 

 latus, I have occasionalh' found this angle on one side entire, and 

 the other dentate. 

 G. maculatus var. tenuicristatus .Martens ex Herbst. 



Cancer tcmu'cristatns Herbst. Krabben und Krebse, PI. HI, 1". :!3-84, 

 1790 (teste Martens). 



Grapsus rudis Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii. p. 87 (1837). 



Grapsus Jiirtus Randall, .lour. Pliila. Acad., viii, p. 124 (1839). 



' Brulle gives not the slightest description whicli Mill distinguish his 

 specimens from either maculatus or strigosvs. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Is distinguished from the typical tbrnis of G. mnculatus only 

 l>y the hairy carapax and nieral joints of the ambulatory limbs, 

 and the narrower carjjal spine. All other characters Avhich have 

 been given prove inconstant. Dr. Martens, by an examination of 

 Herbst's type, has shown the identity of Herbst's tenuicrialatus, 

 and Edwards' rinUs. 



Jliiirtuiin Id..' (J. K. Townsend, Randall's type) ; Odhu ! (Dr. W. 

 H. Jones) ; Ceylon (Heller) ; Boniii (Stm.). 



G. strigosus Latreille ex Herbst. 



Cancer strigosus Herbst, PI. XLVII, f. 7 (1799). 



Grapsiis strigosus Latr., Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 70 (180.3-4). 



Grapsus alboUneutus Lamarck, Hist. Auimaux sans Yertebres, v, p. 



249(1817). 

 Gnniopsis strigosus De Haan, Fauna .Japonica Crust., p. .33 (1835). 

 Grapsus granulosus, peronii et pelagicus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., HI, 



XX. p. 169 (1853). 

 Grapsus longipes et subquadratus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Philadelphia, 1858, pp. 102 et 103. 



Carapax but little convex, posteriorly with oblique transverse 

 lines, anteriorly with squamiform tubercles. Frontal lobes mod- 

 erate, frontal margin crenulate. Orbits with a deep fissure below. 

 Epistome short. Meros spined anteriorly, its other margins 

 rounded, the posterior surface with transverse rugfe. Carpus 

 granulate and bearing internally a slender spine. Hands much 

 as in G. maciilafiis. Posterior distal angle of meros of last pair 

 of ambulator}' feet denticulate. 



Natal! Australia! (Dr. T. B. Wilson) ; Sandirich Is.! (in Peabody 

 Acad.). Its dii^tribution is embraced within the above limits and 

 Hong Kong (Stimpson). 



G. gracilipes Milne-Edwards. 



Grapsus gracilipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 168 (1853). 



China (Edwards). 



Subgenus Orthograpsus, nov. 



Carapax transverse, broadest behind. Sides straight, with one 

 tooth behind the orbital angle. Antennae entering the orbit. 

 Fingers of chelipeds acute. 



0. Mllii nov. 



Carapax depressed, plications faint. Supra-frontal lobes mod- 

 erate ; front straight, narrow, deflexed. Sides of carapax straight, 

 post-orbital tooth small. Meros of external maxilliped a little 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPniA. 195 



longer than broad. Chelipecls much as in 3Tetopograpsi(8 messor, 

 the hand granulate above, fingers acuminate. Posterior distal 

 angle of meral joints of ambulator}' feet rounded, entire or finely 

 serrate, there being a variation in the sides of the same specimen. 

 West Tndiei* ! (Dr. Wilson) ; Key Went, Flo. ! (Dr. A. S. Packard, Jr., 

 Peab. Acad). 



0. longitarsis Kingsley ex Dana. 



Grapsus lo)igit((r.<<is Dana, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci., Pbila., 1851, p. 249. 

 U. S. Bxpb Exped. Crust., p. 339, PI. XXI, f. 4 (1852). 



Paumotu Archipelago (Dana). 



Genus GEOGRAPSUS Stimpson, 1858 (Discoplax, Am. Ed., 1867). 



Carapax depressed, sides curved in front, straight behind, one 

 tootU behind the angle of the orbit. Front narrow, strongly de- 

 flexed. Internal suborbital lobe large. Antenn.t entering the 

 orbit. Daetyli of chelipeds acuminate. 



Synopsis of Species. 

 Meros of chelipeds with a laminiform expansion of the anterior margin. 

 Front nearly straight. 



Folds of carapax transverse. lividus. 



Folds of carapax oblique. grnyi. 



Front arcuate, crinipes. 



Meros not expanded, carapax tuberculate anteriorly, longipes. 



G. lividus Stimpson er Milne-Edward?. 



Grapsus lividus Edward?*, Hist. Xat. Crust., ii, p. 85 (1837 1. 

 Grapsus brevipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 170 (1853). 

 Geograpstis lividus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 101. 

 Geograpsns occidentalis Stimpson, Annals X. Y. Lye, vii, p. 230 



(1860). 



Carapax much broader than long, depressed. Plication.^ nearly 

 transverse. Frontal lobes prominent, front deflexed, its margin 

 nearly straight. Sides of carapax slightly arcuate. Orbit with a 

 deep fissure below. Meros of chelipeds above and below with 

 transverse rugte, its anterior margin expanded, proximally den- 

 ticulate, distally the teeth are larger. Carpus granulate and with 

 a short spine on the inner margin. Hand and daetylus tubercu- 

 late above, externally and below with short, oblique ruga* ; lingers 

 acuminate. Distal angle of meral joints of the last pair of ambu- 

 latory feet rounded. 



Me B(trtho}omeir, W. L ! (A. Goos) ; Chili! (Gueriu) ; West Indies 

 (Auct.i ; Cape St. Lucas (Stm.). 




106 PllOCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



6. crinipes Stimpson ex Dana. 



Gntpsiis crinipes Daua, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1851, p. 



349. U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 341, PI. XXI, f. 6 (1852). 

 Gcog)yipsiis criiiipes Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 101. 

 Orapstis (h'pressns Heller, Verh. Z. B, Gess. Wien, 1862, p. 521. 



Carapax depressed, the sides nearly parallel, folds of the cara- 

 pax oblique, frontal lobes but little prominent, front arcuate. 

 Ischial joint of cheliped spined in front ; meros with the anterior 

 margins expanded, finely serrate proximally, more coarsely so at 

 the apex ; carpus and hand roughened aboA'e, a few inconspicuous 

 lines on the lower outer surface of the palm. Distal angle of 

 meros of the last pair of ambulator}' feet rounded. 



Sanchrich Is. ! (Dr. W. H. Jones) ; TaJdti (Heller). 



G. grayi A. Milne-EdwarJs ex H. Milne-Edwards. 



Grapsus grayi Edvv., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 170, 1853. 

 Gcograpsus ruhidus Stimi>sou, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 103. 

 Georjrapsiis grayi A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 288 (1878). 



Carapax somewhat inflated, its folds oblique ; frontal lobes 

 prominent, front nearly straight. Orbit with a slight fissure 

 below; chelipeds much as \i\ G. crinix)es. Distal angle of meros 

 of last pair of feet rounded, entire or dentate. 



This is probably the adult of the preceding species. 



Tahiti! (A. Garrett) ; Australia, Mauritius, Zanzibar (Hilgen- 

 dorf) ; Madagascar, India, Bonin, New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



G. longipes Kingsley ex A. Milue-Edwards. 



Uiscoplax longipes A. M.-Edw., Ann. Soc. Ent. France, vii, p. 284 

 (1867). Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 294, PI. XV (1873). 



Hew Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus LEPTOGRAPSUS M.-Edwards (pars), 1853, Stimpson. 



Carapax with the sides arcuate, two-toothed. Front less than 

 half tlie width of the carapax, not defiexed. Internal sub-orbital 

 lobe small, antennae entering the orbit. Meros of external max- 

 illipeds as broad as long, but shorter thaii the ischium. 



Leptograpsus variegatus Milne Edwards ex Fabrieius. 



Cancer variegatus Fabr., Ent. Syst., ii, p. 450 (1793). 

 Grapsus ma/rginatus Latr., Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 71 {1803-4j. 

 Grapsus personatus Lamarck, Hist. An. sans Vert., v, 249 (1817). 

 Grapsus pictus Quoy et Gaimard, Voyage Uranie et Physiciene, p. 

 523, PI. LXXVI, f. 2 (1824). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. H)7 



GrnpsHU strirjiUatus White, in Gray's Zoological Miscellany, p. 78 



(1842). 

 Orapsus variegatus Edwards et Lucas, in d'Orbigny's Voyage, p. 27 

 ... .,(1849). 



Qrapsun planifrons Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 18ol, 



p. 249. U. S. E.xpl. Exped. Crust., p. 638. PI. XXII, f. 3 (1852). 

 Leptofjvfipsus variegatus Edvr., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 171 (1853). 

 Leptograpsus bertheloti, terreanxi, an»oni et gayi Edw., 1. c, p. 172 



(1853). 



Carapax nearly flat, transversely plicate. Protogastric region 

 concave, ■with squamose tubercles, protogastric lobes but little 

 prominent. Front slighth* depressed, its margin crenulate and 

 nearly straight. Orbits with a narrow, deep, external fissure. 

 Meros of chelipeds with the anterior border expanded, dentate ; 

 the other angles rounded, the posterior surface rugose. Carpus 

 tuberculate and with a short spine on the internal surface. Hand 

 tuberculate above, externaUy smooth. In the young there is an 

 elevated line along the outside of the palm. Ambulatory feet 

 with stiff set*. 



Pernamhuco ! (Dr. Wilson); Chili! (Wilkes' Expedition! ; Austra- 

 lia! (E. Wilson); Neic So. Wfdes! (Capt. Putnam, Peabody 

 Academy) ; Isle G-uam (Quoy and Gaimard) ; C'anariea (Edw.); 

 Xorfolk I. (l^Iiers) ; Shanghai (Heller), 



Genus GBAFSOPES Heller, 1865. 

 Carapax depressed, sides arcuate and dentate in front, behind 

 straight. Front less than half the width of the carapax. strongly 

 deflexed. Orbits externally open. Internal sub-orbital lobe 

 small, antennae entering the orbit. Meros of external maxilliped 

 longer than broad. Male abdomen five-jointed. 



G. notatus Heller. 



Grapsoch'^ r.r,fnius Heller, Xovara Crust., p. 58, PI. V, f. 2 (18G5). 

 iicHi e?:M Xicohars (Heller). 



Genu? CYHTOGRAPSTJS Dana, 1851. ^ 



Carapax broader than long, front narrow, excavate, sides :irtu- 

 ate, with three teeth behind the orbital angle. External maxilli- 

 peds widel}' gaping, without a piliferous ridge. Epistome very 



' For some reason. Prof. Smith in his paper on Brazilian Crustacea 

 (Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Aiijs and Sciences, Vol. ii, 

 pp, 1-42, 18G9), and in his notes on Ocypixloidea (I. c, p. 154), refei-s 

 several times to this genus, and always as Vrt/ptograpsus. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



short. Antennw enteriug the orbit. Male abdomen seven- 

 jointed, the second joint very short. 



C. angulatas Dana. 



Cyrtograi)8ua angulatin Dana, Proc, Acad- Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 



250. U. S. Expl. Exped., p. 3-52, PI. 22, f. 6 (1852). 

 CryptograpsuH (inguUttUH Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 37, 18G9. 



Cara pax uneven, granulate. Sides three-toothed, second tooth 

 small. Orbits Avith a slight fissure above. Feet all granulate. 

 Hands inflated, fingers acuminate. 



Rio Negrch, Patagonia! (U. S. Expl. Exped.). 



C. cirripes Kingsley ex Smith. 



Cryptograpsus cirripe» Smith, Trans, Conn. Acad, ii, p. 11, PI. I, f. 3 



(1869). 



Carapax depressed, areolate ;: front narrow, slightly excavate. 

 Sides of carapax stronglj' arcuate, with four teeth behind the angle 

 of the orbit, the second and last teeth much smaller than the 

 others ; all of the borders of the carapax are crenulate. Chelipeds 

 stout, granular, Propodal joints of first, second, and fourth, and 

 dactylus and carpus of fourth pair of ambulatory feet haired. 



Bio Janeiro! (Captain Harrington, Peabody Academy of Science, 

 Salem, Mass., types). 



Genus PACHYGRAPSUS Randall (1839),- Stimpson (1858). 



Carapax somewhat narrowed behind, and with transverse striae. 

 Front more than half the width of the carapax, sides entire, or 

 with one or two teeth ; inner sub-orbital lobe small, allowing the 

 antennae to enter the orbit. External maxillipeds widel}' gaping, 

 meros as broad as long. Type, P. crassipes. 



Synopsis of Species. 

 Sides entire. 



Front straight or nearly so. 

 Numerous transverse folds on carapax ; lower margin of hand spined. 



corrugatus. 

 Carapax but little plicate, hands smooth below. mthiopicus. 



Front strongly sinuate. 

 Hands smooth. minutus. 



Hands externally with longitudinal ridges. plicatus. 



Sides with one tooth behind the orbital angle. 

 Posterior distal angle of meros of fifth pair of feet rounded. 



Front with a prominent tooth at angle. cra-isipes. 



Front slightly sinuate without prominent teeth. maurus. 



Posterior distal angle of meros of fifth feet dentate. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Fingers of cheliped smooth. trannergui. 



Fingers dentate or spined above. gracilin. 



Sides two-toothed. 



Transverse lines of carapax naked. marmorntui. 



Transverse lines of carapax haired. pubescent. 



Unknown to me. latipes. 



P. crassipes Kandan. 



Pachygrapsus crassipes Randall, Jour Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 viii,p. 127 (1839). 



Grapsus eydouxi 'Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 170 (1853). 



Leptograpsus gonagrus Edw., 1. c, p. 173 (1853). 



Carapax somewhat arcuate, sides with a single tooth behind the 

 orbital angle ; frontal lobes prominent ; front deflexed, its margin 

 nearly straight, the angles with a prominent tooth. Meros of 

 chelipeds with the anterior margin produced, distall}' truncate and 

 dentate. Hands inflated, margined above and with a longitudinal 

 ridge on the lower outer surface ; fingers excavate. Distal angle 

 of meros of posterior ambulatory feet rounded ; dactyli of the 

 ambulator}^ feet spinulose. 



{?) Sandioich Is. ! (T. Nuttall, Randall's type ; California from San 

 Francisco! to San Diego ! (^lany collectors).; ? New Providence, 

 W. I. ! (H. C. Wood, Jr.); Yokohama (Tozzetti). 

 P. maurus Lucas. 



Pachygrapsus maurus Lucas, Expl. Algiers, Cnist., p. 20, PI. II, f. 5 



1849). 

 Goniograpsus simplex Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 



249 ; U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust, p. 344, PI. XXXI, f. 8 (1852). 

 Pachygrapsus simplex Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, 



p. 102. 



Algiers (Lucas) ; Madeira (Dana); Rio Janeiro (Dana, Heller). 



P. transversus Gibbe?. 



PacJiygrapsus transversus Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Science, iii, 



p. 182 (1850)'. 

 Goniograpsus innotatus Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. l!?51, p. 



249 ; U. 8. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 345, PI. SK-I, f. 9 (1852). 

 Leptograpsus rugulosus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx,p. 172(1853). 

 Parhygriipsi/H hvriiiiauiiH Stimpson, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 102. 

 3feti>])ograpiiiis dxbia.tet utiitiatum, Saussure, Mem. Soc. Phys, et d'Hist. 



Nat. Geneve, xiv, pp. 444-445, PI. II, f. IG, 17 il858). 

 Orupsus decHvifro/is Heller, Verhandl. Z. B. Gesellschaft, Wien, 1SG2, 



p. 521. 

 Pachygrapsus intermedius Heller, Novara Crust, p. 44 (1865). 

 Pachygrapsus socius Stm., Ann. N. Y. Lye. x, p. 114 (1871). 

 Pachygrapsus adcena Catta Ann. Sci. Nat. VI, iii, No. 1. p. 7, PI. I 



(1876). 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Carapax depressed, shining, with transverse plica?, obliqne on 

 the branchial region. Sides generally slightl}' arcuate, -with one 

 tooth behind the orbital angle. Frontal lobes prominent, front 

 sinuate. Meros of chelipeds with transverse rugae, the inner 

 margin dentate; carpus rugose, with an internal rounded tubercle. 

 Hand minutely granulate, a longitudinal ridge on the lower outer 

 surface, margins rounded; dact3dus with the upper margin smooth. 

 Postero-distal angle of the meros of last pair of ambulator}' feet 



dentate. 



Florida! (A. S. Packard; Peab. Acad.; Brown Univ. ; H. E. Web- 

 ster, Union College) ; West Indies! (S. G. Morton, H. C. Wood, 

 Jr.); Brazil! (Dr. T. B. "Wilson); California! (J. L. Lecoute); 

 New Zealand ! (E. "Wilson); Tahiti {A. Garrett); W. Coast Nicar- 

 agua ! (J. A. McNiel, Peab. Acad.); Australia (Stm.); Rio Janeiro 

 (Heller); Madeira (Stm.). 

 P, gracilis Stimpson ex Saussure. 



Metopograpsus gracilis Saussure, 1. c, p. 443, PL II, f. 15 (1858) 

 Grapsus guadulpensis Desbonne et Schramm, Crustaces de la Guada- 



loupe, p. 48 (1867). 

 Pachygrapsus gracilis Stimpson, Ann. N. Y. Lye, x, p. 113 (1871). 

 G-rapsus {Leptograpsusy rugulosus Martens, Arcliiv fiir Naturges- 

 cliichte, xxxviii, p. 102 (1872). 



Carapax much as in P. transversus, but with no folds on the 

 cardiac region; lateral margins nearly straight, one-toothed. 

 Frontal lobes nearly obsolete ; front nearly horizontal, regularly 

 arcuate and minutel}^ crenulate. Chelipeds and ambulatory feet 

 nearly as in P. transversus, the hand and dactylus, however, being 

 spined or toothed above. 



Florida! (A. S. Packard, .Jr., Peab. Acad.); West Indies (Auct.). 



P. corrugatus Kingsley ex Martens. 



Grapsus {Leptograpsus) corrugatus Martens, 1. c, p. 107, PI. IV, f. 8 



(1872;. 



Cuba (Martens). 

 P. aethiopicus Hilgendorf. 



Grapsus {Pachygrapsus) cethiopicus Hilgendorf, in von der Decken's 

 Reisen in Ost-Afrika, Crust., p. 88, PI. IV, f. 2 (1869). 



Ugurunga, East Africa (Hilgendorf). 

 P. plicatus Stimpson ex Milae-Edwards. 



Grapsus plicatus Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crast., ii, p. 89 (1837). 



Grapsus krcmsii Edwards, Ann. Sci, Nat. Ill, xx, p. 170 (1853). 



Pachygrapsus plicatus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 102 

 (1858). 



Pachygrapsus striatns A. M.-Edw., Journal Museum Godeffroy, iv. p. 

 82 (1873). 




1889.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPniA. 201 



Carapax broader than long, everywhere crossed by plications 

 which are bordered by short hairs ; frontal lobes prominent, front 

 sinuate. Sides of carapax entire. Meros and carpus of chelipeds 

 externally plicate, inner margin of meros expanded, proximally 

 denticulate distally with spinifo'rm teeth. Carpus with a promi- 

 nent internal spine. Hand and dactylus granulate above, exter- 

 nally the hand bears several longitudinal rugie. Fingers short, 

 gaping, extremities excavate. 



Ooloi! I Dr. W. H. Jones); Tahiti! (A. GaiTett, Peab. Acad.); Xew 

 C'aJedoiiin ; Samoan In. (A. ^L-Edw. ); Xatal (Krauss); Loo Choo 

 (Stimpson). 



P. marmoratas Stimpson ex Fabricius!. 



Caanr tmtrmoratnii Fabrieius, Ent. Syst., ii, p. 4.50 (1703). 

 Grapsus vnriun Latreille. Hist. Crust, et Ins. vi, p. 69 (1803-4). 

 Grapsus marmoratus Desmorest, Considerations, p. 131 (1825). 

 Leptog raps Its marmoratus Edw., Ann. Sci. Xat. Ill, xx, p. 171 (1853^ 

 Pachygrapsus marmoratus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. ]S'at. Sci. Phila., 

 1858, p. 102. 



Carapax depressed, naked, transversely plicate; frontal lobes 

 prominent, front depressed, slightly arcuate, or sometimes a 

 little sinuate. Sides with two teeth behind the angle of the 

 orbit. Meros of chelipeds expanded in front, expansion distally 

 truncate and dentate. Carpus and hand tuberculate above, the 

 former with a prominent internal tooth. Fingers slightlj'- exca- 

 vate. Posterior distal angle of meros of last pair of feet rounded, 



entire. 



France! (Giierin); Bosphorus! ( Smithsonian 'i; Mediterranean (Auct. ; 

 Madeira (Stra.). 



P. pabesoens Heller. 



Pachygrapsus pubescens Heller, Xovara Crust, p. 45, PI. IV, f. 4 (1S65). 



Chili ( Heller t. 

 P. minutus A. M. -Edward,*. 



Pachygrapgns minutus A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch du Mus., ix, p. 202, 



PI. XIV, f. 2(1873). 



Xew Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.:. 

 P. simplex Kingsley ex Herklots. 



Grapsus simplex Herklots, Additamenta, etc., p. 9, PI. I, f. 8 il851). 

 Boutry, West Coast of Africa {Y{ex\i\ot%). 



Qeim< NAUTILOGRAPSUS Edwards {PUmeo BelPi. 



Carapax narrow, regularly arcuate, sides slightly convex, and 

 bearing a rudimentary tooth behind the orbital angle. Front 



' The genus Planes is a MS. one of Leach. Bowdich, in his " Excursion 

 to Madeira and Porto Santo," p. 15, f. 2 (1825\ figures and mentions a spe- 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



more than half the width of the carapax. External maxillipeds 

 broad, mcros broader than long. Posterior feet compressed. 



N. minatns Edwards ex Linne. 



Cancer minutus Linne Syst. Xat. Edit, xii, p. 1048 (1766). 



Grapsus minutus Latreille, Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 68 (1803-4). 



Grapstis cineretis Say, Joum. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. i, p. 99 (1817). 



Grapsus pelagkus Say, 1. c, p. 442 (1818), 



Planes clypeatits Bowdich, 1. c, p. 15, PI. f. 3 (1825). 



Grapsus testudineum et pelagicus Roux, Crust. Med., Pl.YI, f- 6-7 



(1828-30). 

 Ocypoda (Grapsus) pusillus De Ilaan, op. cit., p. 59, PL XVI, f. 2 



(1885). 

 NautUograpsus minutuK Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust, ii, p. 90 (1837). 

 Grapsus diris Costa, Fauna Napoli, Crustaces, PI. lY, f. 1 (1838-1851). 

 Planes minutus White, Cat. Brit. Mus. Ci-ust. p. 42 (1847) 

 NaxitiUgrapsns Major et Smith ii, McLeay in Smith Zool., South Africa, 



Annulosa, pp. 66-67 (1849). 

 Planes linneana Bell, British Stalk-eyed Ciaistacea, p. 135 (1851). 

 Planes eyaneus Dana, Proc. Phil. Acad., 1851, p. 250. 

 NautUograpsus angustatus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1858, p. 103. 



Carapax smooth, arcuate in both directions ; front nearly 

 straight, post-orbital tooth small, sometimes obsolete. Sides 

 arcuate. Meros of chelipeds with its inner distal border dentate ; 

 Carpus with a tubercle on the inner surface ; hand smooth, fingers 

 dfflexed. Ambulatory feet compressed, ciliate. 



Gulf Stream! (Many Collectors i ; West Indies! <Dr. Griffith); Suri- 

 nam! (Dr. Heringi; Falkland Is.! (Dr. Wilson); Peru! (Dr. 

 Ruschenberger) ; West Coast of Mexico ! Alaska ! (Dr. W. H. Jones) ; 

 China! (Capt. Putnam); Neic Zealand! Natal! (Dr. Wilson); Rio 

 Gambia! (J. Cassin); Mediterranean (Dr. Wilson"! ; France! 

 < Guerin) ; " toutes des mers ! " (Guerin). Guerin's ideas of the dis- 

 tribution leave nothing more to be said. 



Genus EUCHIEOGEAPSTIS M.-Edwards, 1853. 

 Carapax depressed, subquadrate, sides slightly arcuate, with 

 three teeth behind the orbital angle ; orbits entire. Antennae long, 



cies in these words : " A small crab, f. 3, a and b, which I conceive to be a 

 new species of Planes was found in great numbers amongst the anatiferae." 

 In a foot-note the species is described as follows : "It was of a delicate, 

 but bright, rose-color ; from the symmeti'ical form of its test (notched so 

 regularly as to increase the projection and distinctness of its chaperon), it 

 may be called P. clypeatus.'' This can hardly be considered as a sufficient 

 description to establish the genus, and hence I prefer to retain the com- 

 monly accepted name. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 203 



entering the orbit; Meros of the external maxillipeds about half 

 the length of the ischium, its outer distal angle rounded, its inner 

 excavate and bearing the palpas. 



E. liguricns Edward--. 



EurhirogrdpHiiH UgnrirHx Kdwards, Archives du Museum, vii, p. 153, 



PI. X, f, 2 (1853). 



Nice (Edwards). 

 Genus BRACHYGRAPSU8 nov. 



Carapax broader than long, arcuate, without transverse lineation, 



sides nearh' straight, with one tooth behind the angle of the orbit. 



Meros of the external maxillipeds shorter than broad, its external 



distal angle prominent, the internal one bearing the palpus.' 



B. Isevis nov. 



Front straight, external angles of orbit not prominent, tooth of 



lateral margin spinifonn. Meros of cheliped triquetral, bearing an 



obtuse tooth on the upper border. Carpus with an acute internal 



spine. Hands inflated, smooth ; fingers acute. Ambulator}' feet 



elongate, slender, but slightly compressed, the dactyli longer than 



the propodal joints. 



New Zealand! (E. Wilson). 



Genus PTYCHOGNATHUS Stimpson, 1S5S {GnatJiojmpmH A. M.-Edwards). 



Carapax flat, lateral border emarginate. External maxillipeds 

 very broad, nearly meeting, the exognath fully as broad as the 

 ischium. The carpus bears the palpus at the middle of the ante- 

 rior margin, and has the external distal angle strongly produced. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Exognath of external maxillii)ed extending to or exceeding the external 

 distal angle of the meros. riedelii. 



Exognath extending only to the middle of the meros. 



Oblique portion of branchial ridge bounded by a granulated ridge. 



pilipei. 

 Oblique portion without a prominent boundary. pusillus. 



Insufficiently characterized. glaber. 



P. glaber Stimpson. 



Ptychognathus f/labrr Stimpson. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1858, p. 104. 



Bo/<in I. (Stm. ) 



' I am not certain as to the exact position of this genus, as it appears to 

 combine the characters of both the Cyclometopa and Cato)netopa. In the 

 form of carapax and structure of the external maxillipeds it closely resem- 

 bles Trapezia. In the male gtnital appendages it is alliedto the Grapsid<F, 

 where for the present I prefer to allow it to remain. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Dr. Stinipson's short diagnosis presents no characters which are 

 not hoUl in common by both P. riedelii and jnUpes, excepting the 

 non-pilose hand, which in other species of the genus is only of 

 sexual importance. 



P. riedelii Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Grmt/iogrfipsiis riedelii A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Museum, iv, p. 

 182, PI. XXVII, f. 1-5 (1868 . 



Celebes (A. M.-Edw.). 

 P. pusillus Heller. 



I^ycliofjnathus piisillus Heller, Riese der Novara Crustaceen, p. 60, 1867. 

 Gnathograpsus harbatim A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Museum, ix, p. 

 316, PI. XVII, f. 4, 1873. 



Carapax depressed, nearl}' smooth, with a few shallow impres- 

 6ious anteriorly. Front slightly sinuate. Antero-lateral margin 

 with two indistinct teeth behind the orbital angle. Chelipeds finely 

 granulate, but without spines or tubercles. Hands of the male 

 with a lanose spot on the outside at the base of the fingers ; in the 

 female this is wanting. The exognath of the external maxillipeds 

 reaches onlj- to the middle of the meros. Ambulator}' feet slender, 

 compressed. 



Mauritius! (Guerin^); Nic-ehars (Heller); New Caledonia (A. M.- 

 Edw.) 



JP. pilipes Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Gnatkograpsris pilipes A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Ar<}h. du Museum, iv, 184, 

 P.l. XXVII, f. 6-10 (1868). 



TM-s species is scarcely more vthan a variet}'- of P. pusillus, but 

 I prefea' for the present to leave them separate. 



Philippines and Celebes (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus ACMJEOPLEURA Stimpson, IS58. 



Carapax depressed, the antero-lateral margins entire. External 

 maxillipeds nearly meeting the mcii'os, bearing the palpus on the 

 middle of the anterior margin ; the exognath narrow. 



A. parvula Stimpson. 



Acmo'opleura parvula Stimpson, Proa Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 



1858, p. 105. 



Japan (Stimpson). 



9enus PSEUDOGRAPSUS M. Edwards (1837), reHr. 



Carapax depressed, transverse ; sides arcuate, with two teeth 

 behind the orbital angle. Front less than half the width of the 



^ These were labeled by Guerin '* Sesarmci penicillata sp. ined." 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



T^aroJitiS. Meros of external maxillipeds broader than long, 

 tjhorter than the ischium and with its external distal angle 

 strongly produced. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Hands inflated without elevated lines. 



Fingers with many long hairs, carapax inflated. netosus. 



Hairs on the hand between the bases of the fingers short, 

 carapax flat. albus. 



Hands with an elevated line on the lower outer surface, fingers 



without hairs. erassus. 



P. setosus. 



Cancer barbatus Rumph., PI. X, No. 2 (1705). 



Cancer setosus Fabricius, Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 339 (1798). 



Crrapsus penicilliger Latr,, Reg An. (I Edit.), iii, p. 16, PI. XII, f. 1 



(1817). 



EriocJieir? penicilliger De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crust., p. 31 (1835). 



Pseudograpsus peni'cilliger Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 82 (1837). 



Pseudograpsus barbatus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 191 (1853). 



Eastern Seas (Auct). 

 P. albus Stimpson. 



Pseudograpsus albus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1858, 

 p. 104. 



Japan (Stimpson) ; New Caledonia (A. M.-Edwards). 



P. erassus A. Milne-Edwards. 



Pseudograpsus erassus A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., iv, p. 176, 

 PI. XXVI, f. 6-10 (1868). 



Celebes (A. M.-Edw). 



Genus VAEUNA Edwards, 1830 {Trichopiis De Uaan, 1835). 



Carapax depressed, sides arcuate, two-toothed. AntennuUe 

 oblique. Antemiae entering the orbit ; external maxillipeds 

 slightly gaping. Meros much shorter than the ischium, its ex- 

 ternal distal angle expanded. Palpus articulating with the middle 

 of the anterior margin. Exognath half as wide as ischium. 

 Ambulator}' feet compressed, natatorial. 



V. litterata Milne-Edwards ex Fabricius. 



Cancer litterata Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 342 (1798). 

 Triehopus litterata De Haan, Fauna .Japonica, Crust., p. 32 (1835). 

 Varuna litterata Edw., Diet. Class. d'Hist. Nat., xvi, p. 511 (1830). 

 Hist. Nat. Ci-ust., ii, p. 95 (1837). 



Carapax smooth, cardiac region partly circumscribed. Front 

 straight, orbits fissured above, latt'rul teetli separated by slight 

 fissures. Posterior margin of meros of chelipeds acute, the 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



inferior granulate, the anterior with spiniform tubercles. Carpus 

 with a prominent internal spine and one or two smaller ones. 

 Hands inllated, rough, an elevated line on the lower outer margin. 

 Ambulatory feet strongly- compressed, margins ciliate. In a 

 specimen from New Zealand the carpal spines are wanting. 



Philippines ! (p]. & T. B, Wilson) ; Indian Ocean! (Guerin) ; New 



Zealand! (E.Wilson); China! (Capt. Putnam, Peab. Acad.) ; 



Penang! (J.P.Ward, Pcab. Acad.); Japan (JAxexs); Mauritius 



(A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus UTICA White, 1847. 



Carapax depressed, sides more or less arcuate, two-toothed. 

 Antennulic oblicpie. Antennte entering the orbit. Meros of 

 external shorter than the ischium, its external angle not expanded. 

 Posterior feet compressed. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Inner margins of fingers strongly haired, barbimanus. 

 Hands naked. 



Angles of front acute. gracilipes. 



Angles of front rounded. glabra. 



U. pracilipes White. 



Utica gracilipes White, Proc, Zool. Soc, 1847, p, ^Q. Adams and 

 White, Voyage Samarang, Crust., p. 53, PI, XIII, f. 6 (1850), 



Philippines (White.) 

 U. glabra A, Milne-Edwards. 



Utica glabra A, M,-Edw., Xouv. Arch, du Mus,, ix, p. 296, PI. XIV, 

 f. 3 (1878), 



New Caledonia (A, M,-Edw.). 

 IJ. barbimanus A. Milne-Edwards. 



TItica barbimanus A. M.-Edw., 1. c,, p, W, Pb XTV. f • 4 (1873), 



^e'w QaMgm [h-. M,-Edw.) 



Genus GLYPTOGEAPSUS Smith, 1870. 



Carapax transverse, distinctly areolate, sides arcuate, three- 

 toothed. Antennse entering the orbit. External maxillipeds 

 nearly meeting. Ischium and meros nearly equal in length, very 

 broad, the meros being broader than long, its external distal angle 

 not expanded. Ambulatory feet elongate, the dactyli quadraur 

 gular and spinose. 



p. impressus Smith. 



Qlyptograpsus irnpressus Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad;, ii, p. 154 (1870). 

 Acajutla, West Coast of Central America (Smith). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILAIiELPHIA. 207 



Genus HETEEOGRAPSUS Lucas, 1S49. 

 {I'neudngrapeuH, par?, Edw., Dana: llemt'fra/jnut Daoa. 



Carapax arcuate, front inclined, antero-lateral margins dentate. 

 External maxillipeds nearly closing. The meros as long or longer 

 than broad,. and bearing the palpus on the middle of its anterior 

 border, the exognath narrow. 



As the distinctions between the species are mainly comparative 

 and the descriptions of authors are very brief, no s^-nopsis can 

 be given. The species ma}' however be divided into two sections, 

 according to the number of teeth on the antero-lateral margin. 



A. Antero-lateral margin with tiro teeth behind the orbital angle. 



H. Inoasii Edwards. 



Heterograpsus sexdcntatus Lucas, Exploration Algiers, 1, p. 19, PI. II, 



f. 4 (1849), (nee Edwards\ 

 Heterograpsus lucasii Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 192 (1853). 



Carapax regularlj- arcuate, epigastric lobes but slightly indi- 

 cated. Front fonr-lobed. Antero-lateral margin with two promi- 

 nent, narrow, acute teeth. Chelipeds without spines or tubercles, 

 the hands of the male are smooth and rounded, in the female the\' 

 have a double crest above and two elevated lines on the outer 

 surface.* Ambulatory feet slender, naked ; daetj'li long and 

 slender. 



Algiers.' (Dr. T. B. Wilson) ; Candia (Edwards^. 



H, sexdentatus Edwards. 



Cyclograpsus sexdentatus Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 79 (1837). 

 Hemigrapsus sexdentatus Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped., Crustacea, p. 348, 



PI. XXII, f. 2 i28o0). 

 Heterograpsus sexdentatus Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 192, 



PI. vii, f. 7 (1853). 



Carapax arcuate, surface uneven, laterally granulate. Epi- 

 gastric lobes prominent. Front straight. Antero-lateral margin 

 with two teeth behind the orbital angle, the teeth broad, the 

 emarginations narrow. Chelipeds without spines or tubercles. 

 Hands small, fingers excavate. Ambulatory feet moderate, naked ; 

 dactyli short and stout. 



Australia/ (E. Wilson); Ifew Zeahtnd! (Dr. T. D. Wilson); Bay 

 of Ishinds {Dana). 



' Slilne-Edwards (1. c, p. 192,) divides this section of the genus into 

 two groups, one with the hands rounded and without longitudinal crests, 

 the other with crests a division which evidently cannot be maintained. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



H. sanguineus Eawanls ex Do Ilmin. 



6V(7;),<Ms sanguineus De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crustacea, p. 58, PI. 



XVI, f. 3 11835). 

 Grapsus marmoratus White, Cat. Brit. Museum, Crust., p. 41, 1847 



(sine descr.). 

 Psendograpsns nudus Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1851, p. 249. 



Expl. Exped., Crust., p. 335, PI. XX, f. 7 (1852). 

 Heterograpsus sanguineus, marmoratus et macnlatus Edw., Ann. Sci. 



Nat., Ill, XX, p. 193 (1853). 

 Heterograpsus nudus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, 



p. 104. 



CarajDax posteriori}' nearly flat, in front arcuate, with scattered 

 punctge and a curved line of larger depressions running inward 

 from the last tooth of the lateral margin. Front ohsoletely two- 

 lobed ; antero-lateral margin with two teeth closely similar to 

 those of JS. sexdentalus. Chelipeds smooth, with small red spots, 

 which persist in alcoholic or dried specimens: Hands with an 

 external crest, becoming obsolescent with age ; fingers excavate. 

 Ambulator}' feet short, stout, naked, punctate; the dactyli very 

 stout. 



California! (many localities and collectors); Vuncoiiver Is.! (Dr. 



A. S. Packard, Jr., in Peabody Acad. Science) ; San Lorenzo, 



Gulf of California! (Wilkes' Expedition); Australia! (E. 



Wilson) ; Japan (De Haan) ; Pvvipet and Auckland (Heller) ; 



Hong Kong (Stimpson) ; Sitka (White) ; Polynesia (Edwards). 



H. crassimanus Kinpsley ex Dana. 



Hemigrapsiis crassimanus Dana, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1851, p, 250. 



U. S. Ex. Exped., Crust., p. 349, PI. XXII, f. 4 (1852). 



Hawaian Is. (Dana). 

 H. crenulatns Edwards ex OvKrin. 



Grapsus crenulatus Guerin, Voy. Coquille, ii, p»t. i, i). 15 (1838).^ 



Cyclograpsus creniilatus Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 80 (1837). 



Hernigrapsus erenulatus Dana, U. S. Ex. Ex., Crust., p. 349, PI. XXII, 



f. 3 (1853). 

 Heterograpsus crermlatus Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 193 



(1853). 

 Heterograpsus harhigervs Heller, Verh. Z. B. Gesellschaft Wien, 



18G2, p. 522. 

 Heterograpsus harhimanns Heller, Novara Cnistacea, p. 53, PL IV, 



f. 5 (1867). 



Atistralia (Guerin) ; Ifetc Zealand (Edwards) ; Bay of Islands 

 (Dana) ; Punipet and Auckland (Heller). 



' The title hears the date 1830, the introduction to the Crustacea and 

 Arachnida, "15 Novenibie 1838," and the plates 1826. Guerin in his de- 

 scription, refers to Milne-Edwards' classic work as then in maniiscript. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



H. «!longatu8 A. M.-Edw. 



Hehroiirapma tlongntus Alph. Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arch, du Mu- 

 seum, ix, p. 317, PI. XrV'II, f. 5 (1«73). 



Ne^D Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.)- 

 H. oregonendis Stimpson ex Dana. 



Pseudograpsus oregonensis Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1851, p. 248. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 334, PI. XX, f. 6 (1852). 



Ileterograpsus ongonemis Stirupson, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Philadel- 

 phia, 1858, p. 104. 



Carapax depressed, anteriorly irregularl}' roughened; proto- 

 gastrie lobes defined. Front four-lobed, the inner lobes the more 

 prominent. Antero-lateral margin with two prominent teeth. 

 Chelipeds without spines or tubercles. Hands with an elevated 

 line on the lower outer surface, the inner surface of the hand of 

 the male with a jDilose spot. Ambulatorj^ feet moderate, ciliate. 

 Pacific Coast of Xorth America from Puget Sound. ' (Geo. Davidson,! ; 

 to Santa Cruz ! (Miss Hecox). 



There are two specimens belonging to this species in the Mu- 

 seum of the Academ}-, bearing the label " Xew I'rovidence.W. I., 

 Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr." 



H. penicillatus Stimp=on ex Dc Ilaan. 



Eriocheir penicillatii>< De Haan, op. cit., p. GO, PI. XI. f. 6 il835). 

 Heterograpsus peniciUatus Stinipson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadel- 

 phia, 1858, p. 104. 



Japan (De Haan). 

 H. erythraeus Kingsley ex Kossmann. 



Psiudograpsus erythraus Kossmann, Reise in den Kiistengebiete des 

 rothen Meeres, p. 61, PI. 1, f. 5 (1877). 



Red Sea (Kossmann). 

 H. pallipes Milne- Edward?. 



PaeudograpsHS pallipes Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 82 (1837i. 

 Heterograpsus pallipes Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., HI, xx, p. 194 (1853:. 



Australia (Edw.). 



B. Antero-lateral margin with three teeth behind the orbital angle. 



H. octodentatus Edward?. 



Cyrhigrapsus octodentatus Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crast., ii, p. 80 (1837). 

 Heterograpsus octodentatus Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., HI, xx, p. 194 

 (1853). 



Locality unknown. 



H. affinis Kingsley ex D:uia. 



Hemigrapsus ajfinis Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. rhiiadelphia, 1851, 

 p. 250. U. S. Exp. Exped., Crustacea, p. 350, PI. XXH, (. 5 (1852). 



1. • / i.. Patagonia (Daua). 




-10 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



H. spinosus Edw. 



Jit tii'og raps fis ftpinosvs Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx. p. 194 (1853). 

 Vanikoro (Edw.) ; Australia (A. M.-Edw. 



Genu:; ERIOCHEIR De Haan (1835). 



Carapax quadrate, antero-lateral margin two-toothed. Front 

 much less than half the "svidth of the carapax. Antennulre 

 oblique. Antenna^ not excluded from the orbit. External 

 maxillipeds nearly closing. Meros as long as broad, the external 

 distal angle not expanded and the carpus articulating with the 

 middle of its anterior border. 



Synopsis of Species. 

 Sides convex. 



Mesial frontal lobes rounded. japonicus. 



Frontal lobes acute. sinensis. 



Sides straight. rectus. 



E. japonicus De Ilaan. 



Eriocheir japonicus De Haan, op. cit., p. 59, PI. XVII (1835). 



Carapax nearly flat, surface uneven. Front four-lobed, mesial 

 lobes rounded, outer lobes acute ; protogastric lobes prominent, 

 granulate. Antero-lateral border two-toothed, with indications of 

 a third. Meros of chelipeds with the margins granulate, the 

 posterior terminating in an acute tooth. Carpus with a promi- 

 nent internal spine ; distal margin of the carpus and external 

 surface of the hand witli thickly set long hair; the inner surface 

 of the palm with a short horizontal line of granules. Fingers 

 sub-excavate. Ambulatory feet hairy above. 



Japan! (no donor's name). 

 £. sinensis. 



JEriocheirlus'] sinensis Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 177 (1853). 

 Arch, du Mus., vii, p. 146, PI. IX, f. 1 (1854). 



China (Edw.). 

 £. rectus. 



Eriocheir rectus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858 p. 103. 



Macao (Stimpson). 



Genus PERIGRAPSUS Heller, 1862. 

 Carapax convex, sides arcuate, with one tooth behind the angle 

 of the orbit. Front narrower than half the width of the carapax. 

 Meros of the external maxilliped a little longer than broad and 

 bearing the palpus on the external angle, Pactyli of ambulatory 

 feet spined. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



P. ezcelsus Ilcller. 



Perigrapsus <?j«?*?/.* ITeller, Verb. Zool. Bot. Ges. Wien, 1882, p. 522. 



Novara Crust., p. 50, PI. V, f. 1 'l«fioi. 



Tahiti {BeWer). 



Genus PLATYGKAPSUS Stimpson, 1858 (PlatynotM De llaan, 1835, preocc.). 



Carapax flat. Front horizontal. Sides nearly straight, with 

 two teeth behind the angle of the orbit. Meros of the external 

 maxilliped longer than the ischium and bearing the palpus on the 

 external angle. 



P. depressas Stimpson ex De Ilaan. 



Phrfi/Dotiis (lepress'/s De Haau, Faima Japonica, Crust., p. 63, PI. VIII, 



f. 2 (1835). 

 PUttygrnpsHS depressus et conrexiusculus Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 104. 



Carapax depressed, smooth; front horizontal, four-lobed, mesial 

 lobes the larger; sides with two teeth behind the angle of the 

 orbit, the posterior tooth indistinct. Chelipeds smooth and 

 unarmed ; meros with the anterior margin acute ; carpus without 

 spines or tubercles; hand with an elevated line on the lower outer 

 surface ; fingers slender, gaping. Ambulatory feet elongate. 



Japtxn! (no donor's uamej; Ilong Kong yU.e\\et)\ Zoo CAoo (Stimpson). 



Tribe Sesakmiki (Sub-family ScsdrmtmB Dana). 



Meros and ischium of the external maxillipeds crossed obliquely 

 by a piliferous ridge. 



Genus METASESARMA Edw (1853). 



Carapax quadrate, sides but slightly arcuate, entire ; front 

 broad, deflexed. Sub-orbital lobe large, meeting the front and 

 excluding the antennre from the orbit. Meros of external maxiUi- 

 ped greatly elongate, its ajx-x rounded. 



f^iji]<)]i-<i.s of Species. 



Hands smooth, externally and above. rousseauxi. 



Hand roughened above. granularis. 



Hand roughened above and externally. trapezium. 



H. ronsseaazi Edw. 



Metasemrma rousseavxi Edw., Ann. Sci. Xat., Ill, xx, p. 88 (1853). 

 Arch, du Mus., vii, p. 158, PI. X, f. 1 (1854i. 



Zanzibar (Edw.). 




-1"2 pRocKEDmas of the academy op [1880, 



M, granularis' Holler. 



Meidscsarma gramitaris Heller, Verb. Z. B. Ges. Wlen, 1863, p. 522, 



Metasesarma rugtdosa Heller, Kovara Cnist., p. 65 (1805). 



Tahiti [nziUt). 

 M. trapezium Stlmpson ex Danii. 



Sesanna trapezium Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped. p. 854, PL XXII, f. 8 



(1852). 

 Metasesarma trapezium Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci, Pliila., 1861, 



p. 373. 



Sandwich Is. (Dana). 



Genus SARMATIUM Dnna, 1851 {Metagrajmus Edw., 1853). 



Carapax coiiA-ex, sides arcuate, entire or toothed. Front in- 

 clined, less tlian half the width of the carapax. External niaxilli- 

 peds nearly as in Sesarvia. Ambulatory feet with the margins 

 entire. 



Synopsis of Species. 



Sides of cai'apax with two teeth behind the orbital angle. 

 Hands externally smooth and rounded. 



Carapax smooth, hand transversely plicate above. crassum. 



Carapax areolate, hand smooth above. curvatum. 



Hands externally roughened. 



Hands externally bearing a pectinate crest. pectinntum. 



Hands without a prominent external crest. 



Hands with an internal granulate ridge. punctatum. 



Hands entire within. indicum. 



Sides of carapax entire. integrum. 



S. crassum Dana. 



Sarmatium crassum Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 

 U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., p. 358, PI. XXIII, f. 1 (1852). 



Samoan Is. (Dana). 

 S, curvatum Kingsley ex Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma curvata Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 75 (1837). 

 Metagrapsus curvatus M.-Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 189 (1853). 

 Arch, du Mus., vii, p. 160, PI. X, f. 3, 1854. 



Senegal (Edw.). 

 S. peclinatum Kingsley ex Milne-EdwarJs. 



Metagrapsus pectinatus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 189 (1853). 



Martinique (Edw.), 

 S. punctatum Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Metagrapsus punctatus A. M.-Edw., Nouv, Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 308, 



PI. XVII, f. 2 (1873). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



' I have here as in other places employed the earlier name ; what reason 

 Dr. Heller had for the change I cannot imagine. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



S. indicum Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwanls. 



Mefar/rapmis indicus A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mas., iv, \>. 174, 



XXVI, f. 1-5 (1868,1. 



Celebes (A. M.-Edw. ). 

 8. integrum Kingsley ex A. Milne-Edwards. 



Metii(jrn2)sus intcf/er 'A. M.-Edw., Nonv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 309, 



PI. XVII, f. 3 (1873). 



yew Caledonia (A. M.-Edw. j. 



Genus EHACONOTUS Cierstaecker, 1856. 



Carapax sub-quadrate, sides arcuate, toothed. Front narrow, 

 about one-third the width of the carapax. Meros of external 

 maxillipeds nearly as broad as long and about half the length of 

 the ischium. Ambulatory feet compressed, the margins of the 

 joints serrate. 

 E. crennlatas Gerstsecker. 



Rhaconotus rrenulatus Gersttecker, ArcJiiv fiir Naturgeschichte, xxi, 

 p. 143 (1856). 



Locality unknown. 



Genus SESARMA Say, 1818. (Pachi/snmn De Ilaan, 18.35. Holontetopva Edw., 1853.) 



Carapax thick, quadrate, lateral margins straight, entire or 

 toothed. External maxillipeds with an oblique piliferous vidge 

 cros.sing the ischium and meros ; the meros elongate, its apex 

 rounded. Antennte entering the orbit. 



I have not attempted to revise the species of this genus on 

 account of a lack of sufficient material. I merel}' give a list of 

 the described species, indicating in a few cases the S3'non3-my, 

 but leaving the task of comparing a large number of poor descrip- 

 tions to some future carcinologist. 

 S. affinis Edw. {= ? quadrata). 



Grapsus {Pachysoma) affinis De Hajvn, op. cit., p. 61, PI. XVIII, f. 



5 (1835). 

 Sesartna affinis Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 183 (1853). 



Japan (De Haan) ; China (Edw.) ; Natal (Krauss). 

 S. africana Edwards. 



Sesurma africana Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 73 (1837). 



Senegal (Edw.). 

 S. americana Saus^ure. 



Sesarma americana Saussui-e, Mem. Soc. Phys. et Hist. Nat., xiv, p. 

 441 (1858). 



St. Thomas, W. I. (Saussure). 

 S. angolensis Capcllo. 



Sesarma angolensis Capcllo, Descr. tres sp. Nov. Crust, du Africa Oc- 

 cident, p. 4, f, 2 (1864). 



Angola, West Africa (Capello). 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



S. angusta Smith. 



Sesiirviii angusta Smith, Traus. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 159 (1870). 



Panama (Smith). 

 S. angustifrons A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma angustifrons A. ^I.-Edw., Nonv. Arch, du Mus. Bulletin, v, 

 p. 26 (1869). 



Sandwich Is. (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. angustipes Dana. 



Sesarma angustipes Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped., Crust., p. 853, PI. XXII, 

 f. 7 (1852). 



Florida ! West Indies ! Brazil ! '' 

 S. aspera Heller. 



Sesarma aspera Heller, Novara, Crust., p. 63, PI. VI, f. 2 (1865). 



Nicohars, Ceylon, Madras (Heller). 

 S. atrorubens Hess. 



Sesarma atrorubens Hess, Archiv fiir Katurgeschi elite, xxxi, p. 149, 

 PI. VI, f. 12 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 

 S. aubryi A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesar7na aubryi A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch., Bulletin, v, p. 25 (1869). 

 Nouv. Arch., ix, p. 307, PI. XVI, f. 3 (1873). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. bidens Milne-Edwards ex De Haan. 



Orapsus (Pachysoma) bidens De Haan, op. cit., p. 60, PI. XVI, f. 4, 



PI. XI, f. 4 (1835). 

 Sesarma bidens Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 185 (1853). 



Japan (De Haan); Hong Kong, Nicobars (Heller) ; Friendly Is. 

 (Dana) ; Ceylon, Zanzibar (Hilgendorf). 



S. boncpurti A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma boucourti A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 28 (1869). 



Siam (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. chirogona Tozzetti. 



Sesarma chirogona Targioni-Tozzetti, Zoologia del Viaggio della 



Magenta, p. 136, PI. IX (1877). 



Yokohama (Tozzetti). 

 S. cinereus Say ex Bosc. 



Orapsus cinereus Bosc, Hist. Nat. Crust., i, p. 204, PI. V, f. 1, 1802-3 



(teste Auct.). 

 Sesarma cinerea Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., i, p. 442 (1818). 

 Virginia ! to Florida ! and the West Indies ! 

 S. dentifrons A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma dentifrons A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 31 (1869). 



Samoan Is. (A. M.-Edw. >. 

 S. dehaani Milne-Edwards. 



Grapsus {Pachysoma) quadratus De Haan, op. cit. p. 62, PI. VIII, f. 3 



(1835). 

 Sesarma dehaani 'Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 184 (1853). . 



Japan (De Haan). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PinLADELPraA. 215 



S. dusumieri Milne- Edward? (r S. bidensj. 



Sesarma dusnmieri'E.dw,, Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 185 (1853j. 



Bombay (Edw.). 

 S. elegans Ilerklots. 



Sesarma elegans Herklots, Atldit. ad Faunam Afric. Occident., p. 10, 



PI. I, f. 10(1851). 



Boutry, West Africa (Herklots). 

 S. elODgata A. Milne-Edward?. 



Sesarma elongatum A. M.-Edw, Bulletin, 1. c, p. 30 (1869j. 



Madagascar (A. M.-Edw). 

 S. erythrodactyla Iless. 



Sesarma eryihrodactyla Hess, Arch, fijr Naturges., xxxi, p. 151, PI. YI, 



f. 10 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 

 S. eydouzi Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma eydouxi Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 184 (1853). 



Cochin China (Edw.); Madras (Heller). 

 S. fascicularis Hilgendorf ex Herbst. 



Cancer fascicularis Herbst, Krabben und Krebse, PI. XLVH,' f. 5 



(1795). 

 Sesarma ?«ederj Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., HI, xx, p. 185 (1853j teste Hil- 

 gendorf. 



Batavia (Edw.i. 

 S. frontale A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma frontale A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 27 (1869). 



Madagascar (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. germani A. Milne-Edward?. 



Sesarma germani A. M.-Edw,, Bulletin, 1. c, p. 28 (1869). 



Poulo Condore. 

 S. gracilipes A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma impressa jvn. Homb. et Jacq., Voy. Ast. et Zelee, Crust., PL 



VI, f. 5. 

 Sesarma gracilipes Edw., Ann. Sci Nat., Ill, xx, p. 182 (1853). 



Vaoa (Edw.); Nicolars (Heller). 

 S. guerini Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma guerini Edw., Ami. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 183 (1853). 



Locality unknown. 

 S. gnttatum A.Milne-Edward?. 



Sesarma guttatum A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 26 (1869). 



Zanzibar (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. hsematocheir Kingsley ex De Haan. 



Grapsus (Pachysoma) 7iamatoc7ieir De Haan, op. cit. p. 67, PI. VII. 



f. 4 (1837). 

 Holometopus hcematocheir^ Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 188 (1853!. 



Japan (De Haan*. 



' M. Milne-Edwards has elevated this species to distinct generic rank on 

 what seem to me wholly inadequate characters. A similar proceeding 

 with other Sesarma: would result in the creation of nearly a dozen genera. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



S. impressa Milne-EJwaids. 



Sesarmu impressa Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust, ii, p. 74 (1837). 



Locality unknown. 

 S. indica Milne-Edwanls. 



Sesarma indica Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., i i, p. 74 (18;57). 



Indian Seas (Edw.); Ceylon and Nicohars (Heller i. 



S. intermedia Milne-Edwards ex De Haan. 



Grapsus {Pachysoma) intermedia De Haan, op. cit., p. CI, PI. XVI, f. 



5 (1835). 



Sesarma intermedia Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 186 (1853). 



Sesarma Iceve A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 27 (1869). 



Japan (De Haan); Shanghai, JTong Kong (Heller); 



Arrow Is. )A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. lafondi .Taequinot ct Lucas, 



Sesarma lafondi Jacquinot et Lucas, Voyage Astrolabe et Zelee, 

 Ci-ust., p. 70, PI. VI, f. 4 (1853). 



Batavia (J. and L.). 

 S. leptosoma Hilgendorf. 



Sesarma leptosoma Hilgendorf, in Decken's Rcise, p. 91, PI. VI, f. 1 

 (1869). 



Zanzibar (Hilgendorf). 

 S. lividu.m A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma lividum A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 25 (1869), N. Arch., ix, 

 p. 303, PI. XVI, f. 2 (1873). 



Ifew Caledonia [A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. longipes Krauss. 



Sesarma longipes Krauss, Slid Afric. Crust., p. 444, PI. Ill, f. 2 (1843). 



Umlass River, S. Africa (Krauss). 

 S. MUllerii A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma mulleri A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, L c, p. 29 (1869). 



Desterro, Brazil (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S, obesam Dana. 



Sesarma obesum Dana, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1851, p. 250; U. S. Expl. 

 Exped., Crust., p. 356,. PI. XXII, f. 10. 



Balabac Straits (Dana). 

 S. oblonga Martens. 



Sesarma oblonga Martens, Monatsber. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 1868, p. 611. 



Philippines (Martens). 

 S. obtusifrons Dana. 



Sesarma obtusifrons Dana, Proc. Phila. Acad. 1851, p. 250 ; U. S. Expl. 

 Exped., Crust., p. 355, PI. XXII, f. 9 (1852). 



Sandwich Is. ( Dana).' 

 S, occidentalis Smith. 



Sesarma occidentalis Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii, p. 158 (1870). 



West Coast of Central America (Smith). 

 S. pentagona Hutton (=^.' S. tetragona). 



Sesarma pentagona Hutton, Trans. New Zealand Inst., 1875, p. 279. 



Ifew Zealand (Hutton). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPmA. 217 



S. quadrata Milne-Edwards ex Fabricius. 



Cancer quadratus Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Sj'st., p. 341 ,1798). 



Ocypoda plicata Bosc, op. cit., i, p. 198, 1802-3 (teste A. M.-Edw.). 



Orapsus {Pachysoma) picUiK et ajjinis De Haau, op. cit., pp. C1-C6 



(1835-37). 

 Sesarma quadrata Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 75 (1837). 

 Sesurmn picta Krauss, op. cit.. p. 45 (1843). 

 Japan (De Haau) ; Ntw Culedoaia (A. M.-Edw.; ; Zanzibar (Hil- 

 gendorfj. 



S. reota Randall. 



Sesarma recta Randall, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila.. viii, p. 123 (1839). 



Sarin a m ! ( Randall ) . 

 S. reticulata, Say. 



Sesarma reticulata Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., i, pp. 73, 76 et 



442, PI. IV, f. 6 (1818). 

 Sesarma cinerea De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Crust., p. 15 (1842). 



Virginia ! to Florida 1 

 S. ricordi Milne Edwards. 



Sesarma ricordi Y.d-w., Ann. Sci. Nat., HI, xx, p. 183 (1853). 



Hayti (Edw.). 

 S. roberti Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma reticulata McLeay in Smith Zool. S. Africa, p. 65 (18 ), vix 



Say. 

 Sesarma roberti Bd-w., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 182 (1853). 



Gorif (Dr. Wilson) ; So. Africa (McLeay). 

 S. rotundata Utss. 



Sesarma rotundata Hess, 1. c, p. 149, PI. VI, f. 9 (1865). 



Sydney (Hess). 

 S. rotundifrons A. Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma rotundifrons A. M.-Ed., Bulletin,!, c. p. 30 (1869j. 



Samoan Is. (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. mpicola Stimpson. 



Sesarma rupicola Stimpson, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 106. 



Japan (Stimpson). 

 S. BchUttei Uess. 



Sesarma sehiUtei Bess, 1. c, p. 150, PI. VI, f. 11 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 

 S. similis Hess (= S. atrorubens). 



Sesarma similis Hess, 1. c, p. 150 (1865). 



Sydney (Australia i. 

 S. sinensis Milne-Edwards. 



Sesarma sinensis Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 186 (1853). 



China (Edw.). 

 S. smitbii Milne-Edwnrds. 



Sesarma s?«j77iu Edw., .\nn. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 187 (1853V, Arch, du 

 Mus., vii, p. 149, Pi. IX, f. 2 (1854). 



Natal (Edw.); New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 

 15 




218 PROOEKDINGS OF THE ACAPEMY OF [1880 



S. sulcata Smith. 



Se»^ I nna sulcata Smith, Trans. Conn, Acad., ii, p. 156 (1870). 



Corinto, Nicaragua / (.J. A. McNiel, Peab. Acad. 



S. taeniolata .Miers exWhi'e MS. 



Sesarma hvniolata White MS., ^Miers, Pioc. Zool. Soc, London (1877), 

 p. 137. 



Philippines! (Dr. Wilson, with White's label). 



S, tetragona -Milne- Edwards t>.v Fabiicius. 



Cancer tetragonoji Fabricius, Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 341 (1798i. 

 Grapsus tetragonon Latr., Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi, p. 71 (1803-4). 

 Sesarma tetragona Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 73 (1837). 



Ziinzibar (Hilgendorfj to NeiC Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 



S. trapezoida Milne- Edwards. 



Sesarma trapezoida Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 74 (1837). 



Locality unknown. 

 S. ungulata Milne-Edwanls. 



Sesarma ungulata Edw., Ann Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 184 (1853). 



Celebes [E6.vf.). 

 S. vestita Stimpson. 



Sesarma vestita Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, p. lOG. 



Japan (Stimpson). 



S. villosum A. Milne- Edward.-. 



Sesarma villosnm A. M.-Edw., Bulletin, 1. c, p. 31 (1869). 



Samoan Is. (A. M.-Edw.). 

 S. violacea Ilerklots. 



Sesarma violacea Ilerklots, op. cit., p. 10, PI. I, f. 9 (1851). 



West Africa! (Du Chaillu), 



Genus ARATUS M.-Edw., 185:!. 



Carapax trapezoidal, elongate, narrow behind, sides straight, 

 entire ; front deflexed, very broad. External maxillipeds as in 

 Sesa7'ma. Ambulatory feet compressed, the dactyli vy.ery short. 



A. pisoni Milne- Edwards. ff.n 



Sesarma pisoni Edw., Hist. Crust., ii, p. 76, PI. XVI, f . 4-5 (1837). 

 Aratus pisoni Edv,-., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 187, 1853. 



Carapax transversely arcuate, the branchial regions obliquely 

 plicate. Front vertical, its margin tAvo-lobed. Meros of cheli- 

 peds triquetral, the margins denticulate, the anterior one slight!}^ 

 expanded distally. Carpus externally granulate. Hands every- 

 where granulate, the fingers ornamented with pencils of stiff" 

 black hairs. 



Florida! (H. E. Webster, Union College); West Indies! (many 



collectors and localities); West Coast of Nicaragua! (J. A. 



McNiel, Peab. Acad ) ; Jiio Janeiro (Heller > ; Praya, Brazil 



(Mailens). 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLI'IIIA. 2U» 



Genus CLISTOC(ELOMA A. M.-E.lwanls, 1X73. 



Caiapax sub-quadrate, sides deiitate. Sub-ocular lobe large, 

 united to the front and excludinir the antenna' from the orbit. 

 Meros of external ma.xillipeds short and rounded. 



C. balansae A. Milne-EdwarJs. 



Cli!<toca:lom'i hnhuiHd' A. M.-Edw., Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix, p. 311, 



PI. XVir, f. 1 (1873j. 



New Cnledonid. (A. M.-Edw.). 



Genus HELICE De Ilaan (18;J5). 



Carapax (quadrate, front detlexed, sides straight, with one, two 

 or three teeth behind the orbital angle. Antennre entering the 

 orbit. Meros of external maxillipeds as l<jng as or longer than 

 the ischium, its external distal angle prominent, its distal border 



truncate. 



Synopsis of Specien. 



Lateral margin with three teeth behind the angle of the orbit. 

 Ambulatory feet with a single distal spine on the meros. 



A transveise ridge on the brancliial regions. tndens. 



No transverse crest on the branchial regions. 



Hands smootli. spiiiirurpc. 



Hands roTigliened. latreillei. 



Meral joints of ambulatory feet with several spines. dentipes. 



Lateral margin two-toothed. 



Hand strongly granulate. (juadirhaudi. 



Hand nearly smooth. 



Meral joints of ambulatory feet with a spine on the 

 upper distal margin, the hands of the male with a 

 pilose spot at the base of the fingers. piUriirniri . 



Meral joints without spines, bands of male witbout 

 pilose spots. craH»n. 



Lateral margin one-toothed. gibba. 



Imperfectly characterized. leachii. 



H. tridens Dc Ilaan. 



Iklice tridens De Haan, op. cit., p. 57, PI. X [, f. 2, I'l. XVI, f. 6 1 1835 . 

 Carapax longitudinally strongly convex, punctate, front curved 

 downward, its anterior border sinuate when viewed from above. 

 Superior margin of the orbit sinuate, obliijue ; lateral margin 

 with three teeth behind the orbital angle, the posterior tooth 

 rudimentar}'. Branchial regions with an oltliipie ridge running 

 inward from this tooth. Orbits coarsely crenulate below. In- 

 ferior borders of the meral joints of tiie chelipeds with small 

 tubercles, Carjjus spined on tlie inside. Hands externally 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



smooth, sub-cristate and granulate above, internall}'^ granulate; 



fingers excavate. Carpal and propodal joints of the first two 



pairs of ambulatory feet pilose in front. 



Japan ! 

 H. spinicarpa Edwanl'. 



H. spinicarpa Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190 (1853). 



Locality unknown. 

 H. dentipes Heller. 



Eel/'ce dentipes Heller, Novara Crust., p. 62, PI. Y, f. 5. 



Ceylon (Ileller). 

 H. latreillei Edward?. 



Cyclograpsus latreillei Edwards, Hist. Nat. Cmst., ii, p. 80 (1837). 

 Helice latreillei Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190 (1853). 



Mauritius (Edwards). 

 H. gaudichaudi Edwards. 



Ilelice (/uudic/iuudi Edwards, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190, PI. VII, 



f. 6 (1853). 



Sumatra (Edwards). 

 H. pilimana A. Milne-Edwards. 



Ilelice pilimana Alph. Milne-Edwards, Nouv. Arch, du Mus., ix p. 



313, PI. XVIII, f. 1 a872). 



New Caledonia (A. M.-Edw.). 

 H. orassa Dana. 



Ilelice crassa Dana, Proc. Phila. Acad. (1851), p. 253— U.S. Ex. Exp., 



Crust., p. 367, PI. XXIII, f. 8 (1853). 

 H. lucasii Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 190 (1853). 



Carapax closely resembling that of H. tridens, but with but two 

 teeth behind the orbital angle. Carpus of cheliped without an 

 internal spine, hands externall}' microscopicall}^ gi-anulate, more 

 coarsely so internal)}', the upper margin acute. Carpal and pro- 

 podal joints of the first two pairs of ambulatory feet, pilose. 



This is probabl}' but a variety of H. ti'idens. Small females 

 show the elevated line on the hand characterizing H. lucasii. 



New Zealand! (Dr. Wilson); Aukland (Heller); Australia (Dana). 

 H. leachii Htss. 



Ilelice leachii Hess, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, xxxi, p. 153 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 



Genus CYCLOGBAPSUS Edw. (1837)(restrict). (Gnathochasmus McLeay.) 



Carapax depressed, sides arcuate, entire front about half the 

 width of the carapax. Antenna not excluded from the orbit. 

 Meros of the external maxillipeds short, about as long as the 

 ischium; its external angle well marked, the palpus articulating 

 with the anterior margin. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrillA, 221 



C. punctataB Milne-Edwards. 



Cyclograpstii punctatus Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 78(1837). 

 Gnathochasmus barhatus McLeay, in Smith, Zool. S. Africa, p. Oo 



(18381. 

 Sesarma barbata Krauss, Sud Af. Crust., p. 45, PI. Ill, f. 3 (1843'. 

 Cyclogrwpsus audouinti, laeauxit, whitei, granulosus et reynn hiUYaW-.. 



Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 197 (1853). 

 Cyclograpsus Imvis Hess, Archiv fiir Naturjfeschichte, xxxi, ]). \')'-l 



(1865). 



Carapax smooth or slightly granulate ; sides arcuate in front, 

 straight behind. Front broad, nearly straight. Orbits exteraallj- 

 In-oadly emarginate, the emargination continuing backward as a 

 groove for some distance. Hands externallj' smooth, internally 

 with a prominent longitudinal ridge. Male abdomen triangular, 

 regularly tapering from the third to the sixth joints, the seventh 

 much narrower than the sixth. 



New Zealand! iGuerin- Auxtraliaf (E. Wilson and Wiikes' Ex- 

 pedition ; Cape of Good Hope, Madras, Java (Heller j ; Xew 

 Guinea (Edw.). 



C. granalatus Dana. 



CyclograpHns granulatus Dano, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 

 251 ; U. S. Ex. Exp. Crust., p. 3G1, PI. XXIII. f. 4 ,1852). 



Sandwich Is. (Dana\ 

 C. cinereus Dana. 



Cyclograpsus cinereus Dana, Proc. Acad. (1851 1, p. 251; U. S. Ex. 



Exp. Crust., p. 300, PI. XXIIl, f. 3 (1852». 



Cyclograpsus eydouxi'E.Aw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 198 (1853'. 



Valparaiso and SandwicJi Is. (Dana). 

 C. longipes Stimpson. 



Cyclograpsus longipes Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1858), 

 p. 105. 



Bonia Is. (Stimpson . 



C. integer Milne- Edward?. 



Cyclograpsui integer Edw., Ilist. Nat. Crust., ii, p. 79 (1837). 



Florida! (A. S. Packard, Jr., Peab. Acad, i; Brazil (Edw.). 



lienus CHASMAGNATHUS Dellann, 1835. {Parojrnpgnx Edw.). 



Carapax convex, sides arcuate, dentate, front curved down- 

 ward Antenna not excluded from the orl)it. micros of external 

 maxilllpeds longer than lu'oad, widest distall^', its anterior border 

 slightl}' excavate, the palpus medially articulated. 




222 PROCEEDINOS or THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Si/nopsi's of (S^jecte.s. 



Lateral margin with three teeth behind the orbital angle, 



the posterior tooth inconspicuoiis. eonrexus. 



Lateral margin with two teeth. 



Front ronnded. urvillei. 



Front nearly straight. gaimardii. 



Front excavate. 



Carapax and chelipeds granulate. granulatus. 



Carapax and chelipeds smooth. 



Epigastric lobes prominent. lavia. 



Epigastric lobes inconspicuous. svbquadratus. 



Lateral margin with one post orbital tooth. q%adndentatu9. 



C. convexus Dellaan. 



Chasmagnai7ius convexus DeHaan, Fauna Japonica, p. 50, PI, VII, f. 



5 (isas;. 



Japan (DeHaan) ; Easte^rn Seas (Adams and White). 

 C. subqnadratus Dan.'c. 



CliavnagnatTius nubquudratus Dana, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1851, p. 251 ; U. S. Ex. Exp., Crnst., p. 303, PI. XXIII, f. 5 (1852). 



New Zealand? Anstralia? (Dana). 

 C laevis Diina (^ ? C, subqnadratns.) 



Chnsmngnathva laris Dana, Proc. Acad., p. 252 ; Ex, Exp., p. 365, PI. 



XXIII, /. 7 (1852). 

 Paragrapsus verreauxi Edw., Ann. Sei. Nat., Ill xx, p. 195 (1.853). 

 Puragrapsus lavis Heller, Novara Crvist, p. 55 (I865j. 



Carapax slightly convex, punctate ; regions not defined. Epi- 

 gastric lobes prominent. Front deeply excavate in the middle, 

 when viewed from above. Antero-lateral teeth separated by 

 najTOW fissures. Chelipeds everywhere smooth. Antei'ior surface 

 of carpus and propodus of first pair of ambulatory feet tomentose. 



Australia ! (Guerin ; Wew Zealand (Miers). 

 C. urvillei Kings''y ex Milne-Edwa'-ds. 



Puragrapsus ^irViUei'Ed-w., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, p. 190 (1853). 



Yanikoro I. (Edw.). 

 C. granulatus Daria. 



Chasmagnathus granulatus Dana, Proc. Acad., 1851, p. 251 ; U. S. Ex. 



Exp., Crust., p. 364, PI. XXIII, f. 6 (1852). 

 Helice granulata Heller, Xovara Crust., p. 61 (1865). 

 Carapax convex, distinctly areolate, granulate; the granules 

 on the branchial regions being larger ; epigastric lobes obsolete. 

 Front curved downward and, viewed from above, deeply excavate. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lllLAbPW.l'Ill A. 223 



Sides of carapax a<;iite, the fissures between tin' teeth lieinjj: very 

 slight ; all of the border of the carapax finely cremilate. Chelipeds 

 txternally giannlate. Carpus produced internally; the inner sur- 

 face of the hand -with a patch of granules on the inner surface. 

 Carpal joints of the anibuhitory feet longitudinally sulcate. 



U/o Janeiro / (Wilkes" Expedition); Jiio Grande, Brazil! (C'apt. 

 Harrington Peabody Academy). 



C. gaimardi Milne Edwani?. 



Cydograpnus gaimardi YAvf., Hist. Nat. Cru.st., ii, p. 79 (1837). 



Paragrapsus gaimardi "Edw,, Ann. Sci. Nat. Ill, xx, p. 100 (1853". 



Australia ( Edwards i. 

 C. quadridentatus Kingsley ex Milne-Edwards. 



Parugrnpsus quadridentatus Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., Ill, xx, jj 19."i 



(1853). 



Australia (Edw.). 



Sub family Plagusinse Dana.^ 



-'Carapax flattened, antennul:\i longitudinally plicate, lodged in 

 sinuses of the front, and visil)le from al)ove. 



Ginus PLAGUSIA Latr., ISili) {restrict). 



Meros of cxtornal maxilli2)ed AVell develope<l, as broad as the 

 ischium. 



P. speciosa I>ana. 



Carapax arcuate, covered everjwhere with squamiform tubercles, 

 the inter paces being cloWied with a short pubescence, these 

 tubercles being similar in their arrangement to those of P. depressa 

 Say, but much more depressed than in that species. The margins 

 of the inter-antennular i)ortion of the front is simple. Inferior 

 margin of the orbit acute, minutely denticulate. Sides of caraj tax 

 with two equal acute spiniform teeth behind the angle of the orbit. 

 Feet closel}' resembling those of P. dep7-et<sa, the ornamentation 

 being similar, but not so prominent. The hands, however, are 

 externally marked by six longitudinal impressed lines, the lowest 

 of them being on the inferior margin. The tingers are widely 

 gaping, the extremities deeplj' excavate. The dentiform process 



' This sub family having recently been revised by^Ir. Mieis (Annals and 

 Magazine of Natural llistoiy, V, ix, pp. 147-154, February. 1878 i, and as 

 I agree with liis determinations and ideas of specific limits, I omit the 

 synopsis of species from this pai)er, merely giving a few notes on the more 

 uncommon forms. 




224 rROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



on the coxa of the third pair of ambulatory feet is minutely- 

 denticulate. The only additional character in the female is that 

 the squamjv of the carapax are more depressed. 



Mr. Miers (1. c, p. 151) remarks: " Onl^'- a carapax of this 

 species is knoAvn." The carapax referred to, Dana's type, was 

 destroyed in the Chicago fire. The Academy possesses two 

 specimens, male and female, sent by Mr. Andrew Garrett, from 

 Tahiti. 



Genus LEILOPHUS i Miers, 1876. {Acantliopus DcHaan.) 



Meros of external maxillipeds \c\y small, and much narrower 

 than the ischium. 



L. pilimanus Miers ex A. M -Edw. 



Specimens of this rare species are in the museum of the Academy, 

 from the Sandwich Is. (J. K. Townsend) and Tahiti (A. Garrett). 

 So far as I am aware, the only other specimen, in any collection, 

 is the type in Jardin des Plantes at Paris. The British Museum 

 has no specimens. 



I am unable, either from the poorness of the descriptions, or 

 possible inaccurac}' of the figures, to assign the following species 

 to their proper generic positions. 



Gyclograpsus ? tasmanicus Jacquinot et Lucas, Voyage Astrolabe et 

 Zelee, Crustaces, p. 76, PI. VI, f. 6 (1842-53). 



Tasmania (J. et L.). 



Gyclograpsus minutus J. et L., 1. c, p. 75, PI, VI, f. 8 (1842-53). 



Chili (J. et L.). 

 Grapsus inornatus Hess, Arcliiv fiir Naturgeschiciite, xxxi, p. 148, 

 PI. VI, f. 11 (1865). 



Sydney, Australia (Hess). 



Grapsus fiuzardi Desmarest, Consid. sur les Crust., p. 131 (1825). 



Senegal (Desmarest). 

 Gancer tridens Fabricius, Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 340 (1798). 



E. Indies (Fabricius). 

 Cancer hispanus Herbst, PI. XXXVII, f. 1 (1796). 

 Ooniograpaus pulcher l^ockvagton, Proc. Cal. Acad., vii, p. 152 (1876\ 



Lower Galifornia (Lockington). 



M. Henri Milne-Edwards (Archives du Museum, vii, p. 158, 

 1854) mentions a genus Holograpsus, possiblj^ intending Holome- 

 topus. 



' In the dismemberment of the genus Plagusia of Latreille, the name 

 Plagusia should have Vjeen retained for this section. 




1880,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF pniLADELPHIA. 22: 



June 1. 



The President, Dr. RusciiENBERCiER, in the chair. 

 Twent3'-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a Partula supposed to be new, 

 from the Island of Moorea," by \V. D. Hartnian, M. D., was 

 presented for publication. 



The Treasurer having announced the reception of a gift of 

 twenty thousand dollars from Jos. Jeanes, acting for the heirs of 

 the late Joshua T. Jeanes, who, in an unsigned codicil to his will, 

 had indicated his intention of bequeathing that amount to the 

 Academy, the following preamble and resolutions were unani- 

 mously adopted : 



Whereas, The late Mr. Joshua T. Jeanes in a codicil to his 

 will bequeathed to the Academy twenty thousand dollars, an act 

 which ma}' be regarded as significant of his appreciation and ap- 

 proval of the ol)jects of the Society, but left this codicil without 

 liis signature, and therefore legally inoperative ; and, 



Whereas, His executors have placed in possession of the 

 Treasurer of the Academy the sum named, thus manifesting their 

 respect for the intention of their late brother in a most generous 

 and atfectionate manner ; be it 



Bt'solved, That the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia liighl}' appreciates and gratefully acknowledges the generosity 

 of the executors of the late Joshua T. Jeanes in bestowing on the 

 Academy twentj' thousand dollars in compliance with his wish, 

 simply indicated. 



Resolved^ That the mone}^ thus bountifully given to the Society 

 be invested securely in the name of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, to constitute a distinct and permanent 

 fund which shall be named the Joshua T. Jeanes Fi nd and the 

 income thereof shall be ai)plied towards defraying the ordinary- 

 expenses of the Society. 



Serpentine Belts of Radnor Toirni^hip^ Delatrare Co. — At the 

 last meeting of the Mineralogical and {geological Section of the 

 Ac:idemy of Natural Sciences, Theodore D. Rano read a paper 

 on tiie Serpentine Pelts of Radnor Township, Delaware County, 

 and tlie adjacent rocks. lie adduced facts which he thougiit in- 

 compatible with Mr. Charles E. llalTs view, that the middle belt 

 consists of altered Hudson River shales, and stated that the belt 

 was not continuous but was a succession of outcrops nearly east 




--0 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



and west from each other, the strike of which AA'as, wherever ob- 

 servable, more N. E. and S. W, than the line joining- them, thus 

 agreeing- in structure Avith what Prof. Rogers states of the trap 

 dykes north of the serpentine in Chester County. He also called 

 attention to the existence of two trap dykes or tAvo branches of 

 that extending- through tiie Gulf Valley, and to curious markings 

 in quartz rock in the vicinity, suggestive of fossils in a formation 

 regarded as azoic. 



June 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Development of Lemna minor," by 

 Wm. Barbeck, was presented for publication. 



June 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Bibliographical Catalogue of the Genus 

 Partula, with observations on the Species," bj^ W. D. Hartman, 

 M. D., was presented for i)ublication. 



June 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



The deaths of Wm. G. E. Agnew and Morris L. Ilallowell, 

 members, were announced. 



June 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



The deaths of B. F. Lautenbach, M. D., and Wm. Kent Gilbert, 

 M. D., members, were announced. 



On some Homologies in Bunodont Dentition — Dr. Harrison 

 Allen, in speaking of the teeth of the Carnivora, Insectivora and 

 Chiroptera, dwelt upon the forms of the canines and premolars as 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



beino; valuable guides in interpreting the i)lan of the molars. He 

 traced the shapes of the last-named teeth from the sub-conical form 

 of tlie canine, -svith its associated cuspU-ts or oingules characterizing 

 the canines, up to the complicated figuies of the molars. Among 

 the seals, Leploni/x exliibits to the best advantage the figure result- 

 ing from tiie pronounced development of the antero-i>osterior cus- 

 jdets, and is of still greater interest inasmuch as the molars retain 

 in all essential features tiie same parts. In genera where the form 

 of the molars is not so retained, the manner after which the depar- 

 ture takes place in the upper jaw is as follows: 



1. The buccal cingulum becomes developed. 



2. The buccal surface of the main cusp is directed obliquely 

 backward and inward, and at the same time becomes concave. 



3. In genera having the W-shaped pattern, the first V answers to 

 the concave, obliquely placed buccal surface of the main cusp. 

 The second V is a vegetative repetition of the first, and is formed 

 from the posterior cusplet of the canine. 



The W thus formed is a conspicuous feature in the molars of 

 most Insectivora and Chiroi)tera, It can ])e traced through its 

 several stages of development from the Carnivora. The genera of 

 the ProcyonidiC exhibit the transition advantageously. The W 

 of the upi)er jaw, while forming a portion of the free under-surface 

 of the crown, is not functionally active as part of the grinder, but 

 is an exlremeli/ oblvjnrh/ placed poiiion of the i^hearunj buccal 

 surface, and is not articular. 



The V V seen from the palatal side of tooth form the summits 

 of two downward-projecting, prismoidal, shearing columns. Ex- 

 amined in relief from before backwards these columns are seen 

 to be of different relative lengths. In Vespertilio and Antrozous, 

 for example, where the appearance of the under free surfaces of 

 the crowns are almost identical, conspicuous differences in the 

 lengths of the columns are detected when the teeth are examined 

 with the columns in autero-posterior relief. 



The elevations placed to the palatal side of the base of the 

 columns are develoi)ments from the palatal fold of the cingulum 

 of the caniniforni tooth. If one cingule be alone developed it lies 

 to the median side of the first V. Should a second be present, it 

 lies in an analogous position to the second V, and is much less 

 pronounced than the first. 



The differences in the forms of the lower molars are traceable 

 to similar modifications of the simple cone and associated cusplets. 

 The second V is incomplete, the anterior limb not joining the 

 first to form a true W. There is no disposition to form a lingual 

 outgrowth. In its stead a tendency to backward projection from 

 the base of the second V exists. This projection is conveniently 

 called the " heel '' of the tooth, and is always articular. 



The forms of the canines and premolars are not as simple and 

 uniform as they at first sight ajjpear. They often ])rcscnt remark- 

 able diff'erences in their details. This is especially true of these 




22S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



tooth in the Chivoptera. The buccal, apjn'oximal and median surfaces 

 slu)uld be carefully studied in the dirterent genera. Full descrip- 

 tions of these ditferences would be out of place in a communication 

 of this kind. One notable feature of many as seen in the canines 

 is especially well developed in the bats, viz., the junction of the 

 buccal and palatal surfaces resulting in forming a thin com- 

 pressed posterior edge. This may receive the name of the 

 '• sabre '' edge. It is repeated and exaggerated in the last pre- 

 molar and forms at least in Chiroptera (other than the Pteropidjv) 

 the '"sectorial" surface of the tooth. It constitutes a shar}) 

 obliquely-placed ridge which is parallel with the last stroke of the 

 first V, and is doubtless seriall}' homologous therewith. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



DESCRIPTION OF A PARTULA SUPPOSED TO BE NEW, FROM THE ISLAND 



OF MOOREA. 



BY W. I). HARTMAN, M. D. 

 Partula Mooreana, Hartman. 



Shell sinistral, ovate, elongate, thin, translucent, pale yellowish 

 horn-color, apex darker ; whorls 5, flatly convex, body-whorl, with 

 or without from one to three narrow, pale, brown revolving bands ; 

 surface smooth, with line, obli([ue striations, which are decussated 

 by crowded waved spiral stritie ; a narrow white line beneath the 

 suture ; aperture hearly half the length of the shell, lip white, 

 moderately reflected, pillar tooth oval, prominent, situated nearest 

 the superior angle, umbilicus open, moderately compressed. 



Length 18 mill., diameter 9 mill. 



Hab. — Yaianai Valley, Island of Moorea (Andrew Garrett, Esq.). 



In one hundred and forty-six species and varieties of Partula 

 represented in my collection, this shell possesses constant and 

 well-marked specific characters. Mr. Garrett informs me that 

 fifteen hundred specimens were all sinistral and dentate. The 

 surface of the shell resembles P. spadicea and varieties from 

 Moorea in possessing the thickly crowded waved spiral striae. 



This species is arboreal, and is not uncommon on bushes, in 

 Yaianai Valley, the metropolis of P. vexillum Pse. = P. stenostoma 

 Ph. 




-30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF LEMNA MINOR. 

 BY WM. BARBECK. 



In the early part of last April. I found, in a little pond near 

 Camden, X. J., among patches of Riccia Jluitans, a number of 

 minute brownish bodies, which under the lens had very much the 

 appearance of germinating spores, showing at the top a greenish, 

 protlialliinn-like outgrowth. They were of an oval form, and less 

 than a millimetre in size. 



1 secured several of these little bodies, and, upon further exam- 

 ination under the microscope, I found that they contained a well- 

 developed embryo, which was enclosed b}' a comparatively large 

 cotyledon. Thus they were evidently the seeds of some mono- 

 cotyledonous plant. 



I was not able to return to the pond until a week later. Within 

 this week the germination had been completed in a number of 

 specimens, and numerous little plants were developed, most of 

 them still in connection Avith the seed. These obovate, indis- 

 tinctly three-nerved individuals, with a single root hanging from 

 the under surface, were apparently Lemna minor. Thousands of 

 fresh seeds had meanwhile appeared at the surface of the water, 

 most of them germinating, and thus I could get the specimens in 

 all stages of their development. I have tried to show this gradual 

 development (up to the completion of the second frond) by a 

 series of illustrations, Plate XVIII. 



Figures I and II represent longitudinal sections through a seed 

 in which the germination is about to commence. ( Fig. I is from 

 tlie centre, Fig. II from a part nearer to the surface). 



The seeds are seen surrounded by a comparatively strong 

 coat, the testa (/), which is considerably thickened towards the 

 top, where it covers the lid, or operculum (o), bj' means of which 

 the mycropj-le is closed. In (c) we have the large cotyledon, 

 surrounded by a scanty layer of endospermium {sp.) ; in {v) and 

 (w) the two lobes into which the cotjdedon will afterwards split, 

 begin to be differentiated. The axis of the embryo (e) forms an 

 obtuse angle with the medial line of the cotj'ledon. In {p) Ave 

 have the plumula, in (r) the radula of the embryo ; (/) indicates 

 a fissure inside of which the gemma of the second frond is being 

 formed. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIJ I A. •231 



In Fig. Ill the testa has been removed from the cotyledon (c). 

 The two lobes are distinctly separate, [ir) bearing the oi)erculiim 

 under ^yllich the upper part of the piuniula is concealed. The 

 radula (r) is further developed ; in {(/) we have the bud of the 

 second frond. The section in Fig. IV shows the plumula (p) 

 fully developed into the first frond, which in (r; sends down its 

 radula. The angle formed by this frond and the axis of the cotv- 

 ledon is about 1-20^. Corresponding to the first figures (c) and 

 (u'), are the lobes of the cotyledon. {We have to bear in mind that 

 all tiie figures represent thin sections through the different parts.) 

 In realit3' the lobes of the cotyledon are two parallel obovate 

 sheets enclosing the basal part of the much larger, likewise obovate 

 frond. In this figure the gemma has been so far developed as to 

 show in '/) the fissure in which the bud of the third frond is 

 being differentiated. Its elongated inferior part (//') is the 

 secondary plumula. In using a high power, the microscope will 

 show in the region indicated by (.r) several rows of very wide cells. 

 Here the separation of the frond from the cotjledon will take place. 

 In Fig. y this separation is complete. In {p') we have the 

 yet more elongated plumula. in i r') the radula of the second frond, 

 and (/"') shows again the fissure for tlio formutiun of the third 

 individual. 



The section represented in Fig. VI goes through the radula (?•), 

 showing a central vascular bundle (i) surrounded by a tissue of 

 ver}' loose, almost hvaline cells (k). In the further development 

 of the rootlet this outer tissue will follow the growth of the vuscu 

 lar bundle to a certain extent ; then its basal part will be sepa- 

 rated from the frond. But, remaining in eonnection with the 

 more and more extending vascular bundle, this wide-celled tissue 

 will form at the top of the full-grown root the well-known hood or 

 calyptra, characterizing the rtiots in all Lemnacfse. 



The last two figures [\\\ and VIII) need no further explanation. 

 They show the formation and completion of the seeond frond {p'), 

 from whieh the third individual will be developed in the same 

 way as has been illustrated in the first figures. In ^p") we have 

 the plumula, in (;•") the radula of the third fronds; (/") in Fig. 

 VIII shows the fissure for the foiination of the fourth individual. 

 In this way we see the propagation continued through the 

 summer, plant after plant 1)eing formed from a cleft of the pre- 

 ceding individual through a process of proUfication. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880 



^[y investigations have been made only on the Lemna minor, 

 bnt there is no reason to doubt that in the deveh)pment of the 

 whole family of Lemnacese (analogous to our species) we have an 

 interestiug instance of parthenogenesis, there being seeds (pro- 

 duced in autumn by a sexual process) from which, during the 

 course of summer, generation after generation is propagated with- 

 out anv further fertilization. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF HEMITRIPTERUS FROM ALASKA 



liY W. N. LOCKINGTON. 

 Hemitripterus cavifrons, nov. sp. 



D. iv-xiv, 1-12. A. 14. P. 20. Y. ^. C .3-12-3. L. lat. 44. 



Head A-ery large and depressed ; abdomen protuberant, so that 

 the depth equals the width ; snout to tip of ascending process of 

 pre-maxillary rising at an angle of about 45^ ; thence to occiput, 

 along the median line of the fish, deeply concave ; from occiput 

 to caudal peduncle regularly arched, the curve i*eaching its highest 

 point at about the tenth dorsal spine. Outline of anal base 

 corresponding to that part of the dorsal directly above it. 



Depth, 3^; greatest width, 3^; length of head,' 3^; length of 

 pectoral rather more than 4 times in the total length, caudal 

 included. 



Axial length of snout, 32 ; longitudinal diameter of orbit, 6| ; 

 interocular width, 2]| times in length of head ; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle rather less than 5 times in greatest depth. 



Anterior nostril on a level with the centre of the pupil, and 

 prolonged into a conspicuous tube; posterior nostril somewhat 

 tubular. 



Orbits elevated considerably above the general surface of the 

 forehead, so that the concavity of the inter-ocular area is equal to 

 about I of the transverse diameter of the eye ; eyes lateral, some- 

 what elliptical. 



Mouth very large, very slightly oblique ; its width from tip to 

 tip of the opposite maxillaries, li in the length of the head, and 

 exceeding that of the upper jaw by more than one-third. 



Pre-niaxillaries not forming the whole of the margin of the 

 upper jaw, the maxillaries entering into it posteriorly. 



Posterior extremity of maxillary considerabl}' behind the orbit, 

 its upper margin not concealed by the pre-orbital in the closed 

 mouth. 



Lower jaw slightly projecting beyond the upper. 



Several rows of sharp, recurved, cardiform teeth, forming a 

 broad band, in both jaws, also on the vomer, palatines and 

 pharyngeal bones. The teeth on the vomer and palatines slightly 

 longer than those on the jaws. 



16 




234 PRoCEEDIXGa OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



No gill-rakors ; pharyngeal bones large. 



Supra-ocular and post-ocular ridges prominent, the former 

 curved inwards posteriorly, parallel to the post-ocular ; between 

 the two, at the posterior upper angle of the eye, are two small 

 spines or short ridges. 



Occipital ridges with three tubercles, the anterior near the post- 

 ocular ridge, the two postei-ior near together and elongated 

 transversely ; a low ridge between the first and second. 



Temporal ridge with three tubercles, the first immodiatel3' 

 exterior to the first of the occipital series, the second a longi- 

 tudinal ridge ; the tliird rounded, close to the second. 



A long low crest across the operculum ; just aboA'e and anterior 

 to this a shorter ridge connecting it witli the temporal series ; a 

 tubercle on the supra-seapula ; no spines upon the head, except 

 two upon the posterior border of the pre-operculum. 



All the tubercles of the head and the spines of the pre-operculum, 

 covered hy skin. 



Maxillary with a fimljriated skinny flap near its posterior 

 extremity ; lower iliargin of mandible set along its whole length 

 with skinny flaps, of which three pairs are especiall}' long and 

 fimbriated on both edges, while the posterior flap is very broad. 



Lips well developed ; lower lip pendulous at sides, and to a 

 rather less extent in front, and bearing a fimbriated flap on each 

 side. 



Two pairs of similar flaps on the snout, and two over each eye. 



Gill-membranes continuous below the throat. 



Branchiostegals, 6. 



Origin of first dorsal slightly anterior to the lower pectoral 

 axil ; first two spines longest, about 2f in the length of the head, 

 fourth much shorter than the third, and a little shorter than the 

 fifth ; sixth, seventh and eighth much longer than fourth, the 

 remaining spines diminishing to the eighteenth, which is the 

 shortest. 



A tag at the end of each spine, the membrane between the two 

 parts of the first dorsal notched considerably. 



A spine at the commencement of the second dorsal, the base of 

 which is contained more than 2j times in that of the first, the 

 rays increasing in length to the fifth, which is about i longer than 

 the longest spine of the first dorsal ; upper margin of second 

 dorsal, convex. 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 235 



Anal lonoer tli:in soft dorsal, arising opposite the last spine of 

 tlie first dorsal, and terminating somewhat posterior to the second. 

 Ninth to twelfth rays slightly the longest. 



Pectorals yery broad and ronnfled, their base obliq\ie, the tip of 

 the longest (sixth) ra}^ reaching to about the sixteenth dorsal 

 ray ; rays simple, the longest a little less than one-fourth the total 

 length of the fish. 



Ventrals small, narrow, the longest (middle) ray rather more 

 than hnlf the length of the longest pectoral ray, but not reaching 

 to the vent. 



Caudal truncate on hinder margin, rather narrow, rays simple. 



Vent midwa}' between insertion of ventrals and origin of anal. 



Lateral line with a series of skinny fimbriated flaps, similar to 

 those upon the head. 



Body and head scttleless, but the former covered all over with 

 osseous papillre ; largest aboA'e the lateral line, smallest upon the 

 protuberant portion of the abdomen. 



Color, in alcohol, blotches of dark purplish-l)rown on a lighter 

 ground ; the blotches on the fins conspicuous, and running into 

 transverse -bars on the pectorals. Abdomen, light dirtj'-brown. 



A single specimen of this interesting species was obtained by 

 Mr. W. J. Fisher, at St. Paul's, Kodiak. It is in the museum of 

 the California Academy of Sciences. 



Hemitripterxt s cavifrnns is the w-estem representative of H. 

 acadianus of the Atlantic, and differs from that species in the 

 following characteristics, among others : — 



The great depression of the inter-ocular area, whence the specific 

 name ; the greater number of dorsal spines ; the shorter pectorals ; 

 the lesser depth of the posterior anal ra^-s; the absence of hook- 

 like papillffi along the lateral line, and the presence in their place 

 of fleshy slips ; and the smaller size of the bony paiiilhe along 



the dorsal region. 



Dimensions. 



Total length, I'^.T.') 



Greatest depth, 4.50 



Least depth of caudnl i>eduncle, .... .92 



Length of head, -1.50 



Width " 4.50 



" of mouth, from t\\^ to tip of maxillaries. . 3.T5 



Length of ui)per jaw along its curve, . . • 2.75 




236 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



Axial length of snout, . . . . . 

 Longitudinal diameter of e^'e, 

 Interocular "svidtb, ..... 

 Width of pectoral base, .... 

 Length of longest (sixth) pectoral ray, 

 Tip of snout to origin of dorsal, axial, . 



" " " " " along top of head 

 Length of base of spinous dorsal. 

 Height of first spine, ..... 

 " second spine, .... 



" fourth spine, .... 



" fifth spine, ..... 



" sixth spine, ..... 



" eighth spine, .... 



" eighteenth spine, .... 



" sjjine of second dorsal, 



" longest (fifth) ray of second dorsal, 



Length of base of second dorsal, 

 Tip of lower jaw to A'entrals. along abdomen, 

 '' " " origin of anal, along abdomen 

 " " " vent, .... 

 Length of ventrals, ..... 

 " base of anal, .... 



" longest anal lays (9-12) 



1.25 

 .70 

 1.70 

 2.75. 

 3.88 

 2.75 

 .3.25 

 6.50 

 1.75 

 1.70 

 .90 

 .98 

 1.00 

 1.20 

 .88 

 1.00 

 2.00 

 2.50 

 3.75 

 8.80 

 6.32 

 2.00 

 .3.44 

 2.10 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIlLADELPlIIA. 231 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF CATOSTOMUS CATOSTOMUS CYPHO 

 FROM THE COLORADO RIVER. 



BY AVM. N. LOCKINGTON, 



Catostomus cypho, ?p. nov. 



D. 3, 14. A. 2, 7. C. 7-1-1G-1-7. P. 18. V. lU. L. lat. 79. 



Head conical ; snout long, much dei^ressecl ; dorsal outline 

 rising in a straight line to the occipital region, where commences 

 a prominent and considerably elevated hiimp, which attains its 

 greatest height at a distance from the occiput about equal to the 

 length of the snout, and thence descends to the origin of the 

 dorsal. 



Along the base of the dorsal fin the dorsal outline descends 

 rapidly to about the end of the second third of the total length of 

 the fish; caudal peduncle extremely elongated, and Avidening 

 considerably toward the caudal base. 



Abdominal outline almost straight to the origin of the aniil. 

 thence diminishing to the caudal peduncle. 



Greatest d^pth, at anterior pectoral axil, contained not quite 

 4| times ; head a little more than 4 times in the total length ; 

 snout a little more than 2^, eye between 8 and 9 times in the 

 length of the head ; length of top of head not quite 2^ times in 

 the distance (in a straight line) from the tip of the snout to the 

 dorsal ; inter-ocular width equal to the length of the snout ; 

 pectoral about 1^ in length of head; caudal peduncle about 3f in 

 the greatest depth. 



Mouth rather wide, inferior. Lower lip small, in two distinci: 

 ovoid lobes, covered with low, flat-topped papilhv ; the front of 

 the dentary bones covered by a well-developed, round-edged, Uowiy 

 plate. Lower lip quite distinct from the upper; the skin «>f tlu 

 cheeks forming an obliquely ascending crease, which d<>es not. 

 however, cover the angle of the mouth. 



Anterior nostril horizontally sub-elliptical; posteiior large,- 

 vertical, crescentic, entii-ely covered by its anterior fln^i). 



Two distinct rows of pores on the top of the heatl;-. connected ' 

 on the occiput with a series running belaud and below the eyi^ 

 almost to the tip of the snout. 



Pharyngeals arcuate, witli numerous teeth, reguhirly diminish, 

 ing posteriorly. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Opercular region ^^■ell tleveloped ; the distance from the posterior 

 margin of the eye to that of the opercuhim being, to the length of 

 the snout, about as eleven to nine. Posterior margin of operculum 

 and sub-oporculum forming a continuous bold convex curve. 



Pectorals triangular-ianceolate, fourth and fifth rays longest ; 

 their tips extending to beyond the middle of the pubic bones, 

 rays once or twice bifurcate, the first two excepted. 



Ventrals reaching bej^ond the vent, the third rays longest, the 

 last about two-thirds as long; all the raj'^s twice bifurcate except 

 the first. 



Dorsal well developed, fourth and fifth raj'S longest, and con- 

 tained about 1^ times in the greatest depth; first three rays 

 simple, the others twice bifurcate. 



Anal consideraltly shorter than the dorsal, but equal in depth 

 to the height of the latter; the first two raj^s simple, the others 

 (except the last) twice or thrice bifurcate ; first ray aljout lialf as 

 long as the second. 



Origin of the dorsal about one-sixth nearer to the tip of the 

 snout than to the centre of the base of the caudal (measui-ing 

 along the axis of the bodj-), the base of its eighth ray above the 

 anterior axil of the ventrals. 



The tips of the anal rays reach bej'ond the first caudal 

 accessories. 



Caudal with numerous accessory- raj'S, the longest about half as 

 long as the outer simple principal ray ; the other principal rays 

 three times bifurcate ; posterior margin of fin triangularly emar- 

 ginate. 



Scales c3'cloid, of variable size ; each scale with 8-16 conspicuous 

 ladiating striae on its exposed portion ; the striaj and their inter- 

 spaces crossed by numerous, much less distinct concentric striiie. 

 Engaged portion of each scale with numerous diverging stria, less 

 distinct than those of the free portion. Scales along and near the 

 lateral line larger than those above and below, and increasing 

 considerably in size posteriori}', as do also those above and below, 

 so that the largest scales of the body are upon the peduncle of the 

 tail. The scales diminish much more rapidly in size downwards 

 than upwards, so that those of the abdominal region and behind 

 the pectoral base are by far the smallest. Scales somewhat 

 pentagonal, the length exceeding the height ; those upon the 

 caudal peduncle almost twice as long as high. 




1880J NATURAL SCIENCES OF rilTLADELrillA. 23'J 



Fins scalcless, jis^ is also a small patrh on tlie aiiti rior part -»! 

 the dorsal humjj. 



Lateral line deflected near its ori^'in. then rimninL!: along the 

 median line of tlie body to the origin of the caudal. Pores 

 simple. 



Color of the preserved specimen silvery-gray above, ligru 

 straw-color or creamy on the abdcnninal region and nnder side of 

 the head ; fins light uniform slaty-gray. The color is produced 

 by numerous dark dots upon the scales and membrane between 

 them, but fewer upon the scales, the outlines of which are there- 

 fore quite distinct. 



The hump is supported anteriorly by a very large ti'apezoidal 

 inter-neural, formed of a thick central pillar with anterior and 

 posterior al«, the latter twice as large as the former. The upper 

 .margin of the bone is highest at the point of the central pillar, 

 from which it slopes anteriorly and posteriori}'. The base of the 

 central pillar is broadly expanded transversely, ottering a double 

 articulating surface on its under side. The next inter-neural is a 

 thin flat sub-rectangular plate, while the next three are expanded 

 above, attenuated below ; the fifth bent, and smaller than the 

 fourth, the lower portion of which is also bent forward. Inter- 

 neurals of dorsal fin Avith a central ray and an anterior aijd 

 posterior expansion dying out at their lower fourth ; symmetrical, 

 except that supporting the first two rays. This is evidently 

 formed bj' two inter-neural bones, united by a thin bony plate, 

 which forms a broad expansion in front of the first, and a narrow 

 one behind the second. 



Upon the first vertebra there is a broad articulating surface, 

 apparently' for the reception of the first inter-neural, as a thin 

 longitudinal perpendicular partition exactly fits into a notch 

 between the two articulating surfaces of that bone. The trans- 

 verse processes of this vertebra are broadlj* expanded inferiorly. 

 and their lower edges suturally united to a pair of very large bony 

 plates of complex form, connecting the air-bladder with the ba. k 

 of the skull. 



From the anterior margin of each nourapophysis of the next 

 nine vertebne springs an upward-directed process, which, in the 

 first of these vertebra', is almost as long as the neural s])ine. l>ut 

 which diminishes in size on each successivi' vertelira. 



The neural spines of the first two of tliese vertebra* are ImTkI. 




240 



PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



The single specimen from which the above description is taken 

 was brought from the Colorado River, at the junction of the Gila, 

 and was sent to the museum of the California Academy of 

 Sciences b}' John E. Curry, Esq., Civil Engineer. 

 ■ It is said that the species is not uncommon in the locality from 

 which this specimen was procured, and it is much to be regretted 

 that we have onl}- this example, especially since it is greatly 

 damaged by the extraction of the large inter-neviral some two 

 years ago. The air-bladder is destroyed, so that it is impossible 

 to tell whether it agrees with the other species of Catostomus, in 

 having that organ divided into two portions. The extremities of 

 the fins are also much broken, and the shape of the body distorted. 



Dimensions. 



Total length, ...... 



Length to base of caudal, .... 



Greatest depth, about . 



Length of head, ...... 



top of head, .... 



snout, from e3'e, .... 



Longitudinal diameter of eye, 



Inter-ocular width, ..... 



Depth of head, at front of eye, . 



Snout, from front of nostrils, 



Tip of snout to origin of dorsal, in a straight line 



Length of base of dorsal, .... 



Height of longest dorsal ray, ... 

 Tip of snout to anterior portion of pectoral base 

 Length of pectoral fin, . . . 



Tip of snout to anterior portion of ventrals, 

 Length of ventrals, ..... 



'' anal base, ..... 



'• longest anal ray, .... 



Tip of snout to origin of anal. 

 Width of caudal i)eduncle, .... 

 Length of first inter-neural, . . • . 

 Height of " '• .... 



Hi 



n 



2 V 



1^ 



21 





6|^ 



3 2 

 1 5 



Ty 



29 

 3l! 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



P II O C K E t) I N ( i S 



OF THS 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOfJICAL SECTION UF THE ACADEMY 



OF Natural Sciences of PiiiLADELniiA. 



18r7-lH7i). 



May 28, 1877. 



t,A Neiv Polariscope Mr. H. C. Lewis remarked that a cheap 



and accurate polariscope for the measurement of the optic-axial 

 divergence in minerals had long l)een a desideratum among min- 

 eralogists. He wished to direct attention to an instrument for this 

 purpose, latel}' made for him by Queen »t Co., of this cit}', which 

 had proved very satisfactory. The light was polarized b}^ reflec- 

 tion from a plate of black glass, converged upon the rotating stage 

 b}' two sets of adjustable lenses, and analyzed by a Nicol's prism. 

 A graduated circle of steel, having through its axis a sliding 

 forceps, is fastened at right angles to the stage. A pointer records 

 the amount of rotation of the forceps. The mineral to be examined 

 is either held in the forceps or is attached by a drop of oil to a 

 piece of thin glass which is held in the same way. Cross-hairs are 

 fixed below the eye piece, and the measurement of the divergence 

 of the optic axes is performed in the usual way. The instrument 

 was found to work admirably and could be recommended. The 

 adjustments were made quickly and the axial divergence could 

 be determined to within 30'. It is simple, absorbs but little light, 

 and gives good results even with ver}^ small fragments of minerals. 



A Garnet with Inverted Crystallization. — Mr. Lewis ex- 

 hibited a garnet which he had found in Germantown, and stated 

 that it showed a ver}' perfect example of inverted crystallization. 

 Its form was a perfect trapezohedron except that one octant was 

 depressed, its apex lying within the crystal, one-halfway towards 

 the centre. The re-entrant angles corresponded in position with 

 the trihedral edges on the opposite octant of the crystal. The 

 garnet was an isolated one found in a matrix of gneiss. Atten- 

 tion was called to the fact that such inverted crystallization was 

 apparently more common in the isometric than in other systems 

 of cr3'^stallization and comment was made upon the cause of such 

 phenomena- 



June 25, 1877. 



Chanije of Serpentine into Quart:. — Mr. Tiieopork P. Rand 

 described and presented specimens showing the change of ser- 




242 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



pentine into quartz, very strikingl}' shown near a quarry of 

 serpentine rock on the farm of John Stacker, about a third of a 

 mile X. AV. of Radnor Station, P. R. R., Delaware Co., Pa. 



The outcrop of the serpentine is accompanied bj^ a rock, locally 

 called " Ironstone," which however is a cellular quartz, generall}'' 

 stained by oxide of iron. It occurs as loose masses in the soil, 

 generally of small sixe, but sometimes of over a hundred pounds 

 weight ; the cavities are frequently lined with drusy quartz. This 

 rock is of common occurrence in connection with serpentine belts, 

 but that it has arisen from a decomposition of the serpentine, 

 has, he believed, not been observed elsewliere. On the south side of 

 Stacker's quarry a few feet below the original surface of the ground, 

 is a bed of soft serpentine much cracked ; a foot or two above, 

 these cracks are found lined with chalcedonic quartz, of paper-lik:e 

 thinness ; above, the quartz thickens, the serpentine becomes more 

 and more decomposed, until near the surface the quartz only re- 

 mains, with the cavities empt}?^, or filled with what appears to be 

 oxide of iron with alumina. It is an instance of pseudomorphism 

 on a large scale, the progress of which can be traced, step by 

 step, from almost unaltered serpentine to almost pure quartz. 



Well-water. — In this connection the analysis of tlie water of a 

 well 50 feet deep in the serpentine, about 400 hundred feet from 

 the quarrj', but under the same quartz outcrop, may not be 

 iminteresting. 



In a gallon of 70,000 grains, — mean of three anal3^ses : — 



5.665 



80.8 



A New Locality for Siderite. — Mr. II. C. Lewis announced 

 Dunbar, Fayette Co., Penna., as a new locality for Siderite. It 

 there occurs in finely crj-stallized specimens in the interior of 

 nodules of amorphous Siderite. These nodules or concretions 

 are of various and often curious shapes. Doubly terminated 

 limpid quartz crystals and minute but very perfect crystals of 

 Pyrite are associated with those of Siderite, forming handsome 

 specimens. 



Magnetite Markings in Muscovite. — Mr. Lewis made some 

 remarks on the markings in the Muscovite of Brandywine 

 Hundred, Delaware. He proved that these markings were Mag 

 netite, by exhibiting their attractability by the magnet, and said 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



that ill order to exhibit this properly, the section must be 

 exceed i 11 iih- thin. He stated that an optical examination had proved 

 that the direction of the main lines of the markings corresponded 

 with or was at right angles to that of the crystallograpliic axes of 

 the Muscovite. He exhibited a plate of the mica shown distinctly 

 to be a twin by the two different groupings of Magnetite markings. 

 Examination in the polariscope confirmed this structure. Thus, 

 frequently, the ciTStallinc structure of the mica and the direction 

 of its axes may l)e ascertained by an inspection of these markings 

 alone. It appeared, therefore, that the form and direction of the 

 markings was determined, not by independent crystallization of 

 the Magnetite forming them, but in part at least by the Muscovite 

 from which it had prol)ably been derived. These markings are, in 

 some respects. pseudomori)hs after ^luscovite. He thought that 

 the statement in Dana's Mineralogy (p. 150), referring to these 

 markings, that "the branching at angles of 60-' indicates com- 

 position parallel to a dodecahedral face," was misleading, implying 

 that this form was produced by an inherent property of the Mag- 

 netite, and not, as he thought now appears, by the crj-stalline 

 structure of the Muscovite. 



September 24, 1871. 



A Keic LocaUty for Asbolife. — ^Nlr. Lewis stated that he had 

 found Asbolite at Flourtown, Montgomery Co., a new locality for 

 this mineral. It is found in iron ore mines as an incrustation 

 upon Psilomelane. It is of a bluish-black color, is as soft as 

 graphite, and gives a shining streak when scratched b}- the nail. 

 The blowiDipe indicates a considerable percentage of cobalt. 



A New Locality for Fluorite. — Mr. "W. W. Jefferis stated 

 that a few da^'s since he was shown a massive specimen of Fluor- 

 spar of a deep purple color, which was found in the limestone 

 near the village of Howcllville, in Tredyffrin Township, Chester 

 County, Pa. This is the third locality of fluor in this count}'. 



Epidote in Moli/hdeuife. — Mr. Lewis mentioned that while 

 examining some Molybdenite from Frankford, Phila., he had 

 found plates of a transparent hard mineral, of a light greenish- 

 3'ellow color, somewhat resembling Wulfenite, occurring in thin 

 layers and minute scales between the foli;\? of the Molybdenite, 

 and sometimes coating it as a thin film. It was not until after a 

 careful examination tiiat it was proved to be Epidote in an 

 unusual form and situation. 



October 22, 1877. 



A Xrw Locnlitii for Millerite. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand announced 

 the discovery of ^[illerite in Dolomite, from the Soapstone (piarry 

 on the Schuylkill, in Philadelphia, near the Montgomery County 

 line. It occurred in capillary cr3'-stals in cavities of the Dolomite. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



THE OPTICAL CHARACTERS OF SOME MICAS. 

 BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS. 



For the determination of tlie true characters of the micas — a 

 class of minerals rapidly gaining in importance — a knowledge of 

 their optical characters is almost as necessar}- as is that of their 

 chemical composition. The optical is certainly the most ready 

 method of determination. The inA'estigation here recorded is but 

 a partial one, and it is hoped that in the future it may be extended 

 so as to include most of the American micaceous minerals. The 

 measurements have been made for the most part upon minerals 

 whicli have never been optically examined, and are chiefly' Ameri- 

 can. A few foreign species have been introduced for comparison. 

 The micas examined are largely those in the collection of the 

 Academy. Others were either in the writer's collection or have 

 been kindlj^ given him by friends. The source from which each 

 specimen has been obtained is noted in the tables given below. 



The polariscope used was made by Queen & Co., of this city, 

 and was described before this Section at its meeting last May. 

 It reads to within 30'. The figures given below represent the 

 mean apparent optic-axial angular divergence for white light. As 

 the angle is somewhat different in different specimens and some- 

 times even in different portions of the same plate, the figures must 

 be regarded as only approximate. In each case they represent 

 a mean of a number of separate measurements, and collectively' 

 are the result of over 1600 such measurements. 



Phlogopite. 



1. Sussex Co., N. Y. Hexagonal crystals, j-ellow, 



transparent. (Acad. Nat, Sci.) 6°, 



2. Burgess, Ont,, Can. Clear brown,' (A. N. S.) 6°45'. 



3. N. Shore of Rideau Lake, Burgess, Can. Angle 



Agarics in same piece. Clearbrown. (J.Willcox.) 6^-12° 



4. Hammond, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Clear yellow. 



Hyperbolas closer in the centre than thej'' are 

 neaf the edges of the crystals. Crystals are 

 sometimes uniaxial in the centre and biaxial at 

 each end, while the plane of the optic axes at 




880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



— , one end is at right angles to that 

 y at the other end, viz. : 



One crystal had angle at centre, 

 7°30', angle at edge, 11°15'. 

 (A. X. S.) 10°40'. 



i6. Jefferson Co., N.Y. Brownish-yellow. CA. N. S.) 11^21'-12^50'. 



'i6. Vrooman's Lake, Jefferson Co.. N. Y. Wine-yel- 

 low. (A.N. S.) 12°45'. 



7. Oxboro', Jefferson Co., X. Y. Light yellow. 



(A.N.S.) L3°12'. 



8. Ottey Lake, Burgess, C. W. Brown hexagonal 



crystals. (W. W. Jefferis). L3°20'. 



A crystal from the same localitj^ (J, Willcox) 

 gave for the outer part of crystal, 13'^4I'; 

 centre of crystal, 11°23'. 



9. Calumet Is., Canada. Greenish-yellow, transpar- 



ent. (A.N.S.) 13 = 20'-14°18'. 



10. New Hampshire. Reddish-brown, similar to 



Darby Biotite ; nearly imiaxial in thin plates. 13°10'-17°. 



11. Sparta, N. J. Dark brown; by reflected light 



nearly black. 14^20'. 



12. Yrooman's Lake, Jefferson Co., N. Y''. Clear 



pale yellow. Some crystals show identical 

 phenomena with those from Hammond, St. 

 Lawrence Co. 



13. St. Denis. "Plumose mica:" brown: thick, 



nebulous hj-perbolas, 



14. Warwick, N. Y. Dark green; cleaving into 



rhombs ; often mistaken for Biotite. 



15. Pope's Mills, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Deep 



reddish-brown. (W. W. Jefferis.) 



16. Vesuvius. Black b}' reflected light, dark red- 



dish-brown in thin plates. With icespar : 

 very opaque. (A. N. S.) 

 n. Clark's Uill, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Brown. 

 (W. W. Jefferis.) 



18. Kennett Square, Del. Co.. Pa. Brown; in liine- 



stone. 



19. Edwards, N.Y. Pearly white. (W. W. Jetferis). 



20. Rossie, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Yellowish- 



brown. (A.N.S.) 15-52'. 




246 TROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



21. S. Burg-OSS, Can. Large brown crystal, purplo 



on edges. (A. N. S.) 



22. Clark's Hill, near Rossle, N. Y. Brownish- 



yellow. (A. N. S.) 



23. Clark's Mills, X. Y. Light brown, transparent : 



(probably identical with Nos. 17, 20, 22). 

 (A. N. S.) 



24. Canada. Asteriated Phlogopite. 



25. S. Burgess. Clear yellow-brown. (A. N. S.) 



26. Burgess, C. W. Yellowish-brown crystals, with 



secondary cleavage along diagonal. (W. W. 

 Jefteris). 



27. Rossie, N. Y. Black by reflected, reddish- 



brown by transmitted light. (A. N. S.) 



28. Vesuvius. Black, crumbling, very opaque, 



mixed with black hornblende. (A. N. S.) 



29. Burgess, C. W. Asteriated, not transparent, 



silvery -brown. (A. N. S.) 



30. Rossie, N. Y. Black by reflected, dark brown 



b}' transmitted light. Contains apatite. (A. r. , 



N. S.) 22°: 



31. Chester Co., Pa. Feebly asteriated; locality 



wrong ? ; probably from Rossie, N. Y. (A. 



X. S.) 23°15'. 



32. Alamutchie,N. J. Clear reddish-brown. (Frankl. 



Inst.) • 30°5'. 



33. Yan Arsdale's Quarry, Bucks Co., Pa. Red- 



brown ; with graphite, etc. 34°. 



Biotite. 



1. Easton, Pa. White, silver mica. 2°±:. 



2. Antwerp, N. Y. Greenish-white. 0°. 



3. Culsagee, N. C. White. 0°. 



4. Yesuvius. White. . 



5. Darby, Del. Co., Pa. Deep red. 0°. 

 G. Delaware Co., Pa. Crystal in muscovite ; black 



by reflected, brownish-red by transmitted light. 5 ° ±:. 



7. Scotland. Brown. . 



8. Rossie, N. Y. Brown. 0°. 

 Probably several of these Biotites have an angle of l°-2°. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlflLADF.LI'HfA. 247 



Lepidomelane. 



Arendal, Norway. Black ; uniaxial. 0-*. 



Frankforcl, Phila. Black ; uniaxial. 0-*. 



Muscovite. 



1. Brunswick, Me. Bright green scales. (A. X. S.) 50^25'. 



2. Pennsbury, Pa. (A. N. S.) 56^50'. 



3. Vesuvius. With adularia. (A. X. S.) 59°20'. 



4. Button's Mills, Del. Co., Pa. (J. M. Cardeza.) 60^. 



5. St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Greenish-white, plu- 



mose radiated crystals, showing Airy's spirals, 



(A. N. S.) " 60^40'. 



6. Darby, Phila., Pa. Small scales in gneiss. 61°10'. 



7. Siberia. (A. N. S.) 63^. 



8. Germantown, Phila. Smoky brown, clear crystals. 63°4'. 



9. Plainfield, Conn. Margarodite. Contains 5 p. c 



ofwater. 63^15'. 



10. Poorhouse, Del. Co., Pa. 63°47'. 



11. Germantown, Pa. 64°23'. 



12. Germantown, Pa. Containing enclosed cr^'stals 



of a black, uniaxial mica. 64 ""SO'. 



13. Frankford, Pa. In hornl^lende rock: in calcite. 



with fluorite and epidote. (T. D. Rand). 



14. Falls of Schuylkill, Phila. In hornblende rock. 



15. Cumberland, England. "Xacrite." CA. X. S.) 



16. Goyaz, Brazil. (A. X. S.) 



17. Brandywine Hundred, Del, Containing mag- 



netite markings. 



After heating until it whitens, it has an 

 angle of 49°. 



18. Litchfield, Me. (A. X. S.) 



19. Portland, Conn. 



20. Southern Colorado, identical with mica of 



Pennsbur}-, Pa,, and Brandywine Hundred. 

 Del., having magnetite markings. 



21. Grafton, X. H. 



22. Chandler's Hollow, Del. (J. M. Cardeza,) 



23. Black Hills, Wyoming. (A. N. S.) 



24. Zinnwald, Bohemia. (A. X, S.) 



25. Buncombe Co., X. G. (A. N. S.) 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



26. Germantown, Pa. Large silveiy plates. 



27. Dixon's Quarry, Del. Pale green. 



28. Connecticut. Green scales. (A. X. S.) 



29. Georgetown, Col. 



30. Upland, Del. Co., Pa, Pale green. (J. M. 



Cardeza.) 



31. Germantown, Pa. Pale green. 



32. Chester Co., Pa. (A. xTs.) 



33. Westchester Co., N. Y. 



34. Fabyans, White Mountains, N. H. 



35. Glacier of the Aar, Switz. (A. N. S.) 



36. Trumbull, Conn. Margarodite. 



37. Paris, Me. Rose-color. (A. N. S.) 

 Where not otherwise indicated, the aboA'e muscovites are of a 



clear 3'ellowish-brown tint. 



Lepidolite. 



1. Altenberg, Saxony. With Pycnite ; sometimes 



distorted. (A. N. S.) 31°. 



2. Zinnwald, Bohemia. Often very irregular. On 



different parts of the same piece the angle 



varies from 34°30' to 51°30'. (A. N. S.) 49°30' 



3. Paris, Me. Much distorted ; several axes. (A. 



N. S.) 60°±. 



4. Middletown, Conn. 66°. 



Talc. 



1. Lafayette, above Manayunk, Pa. Exfoliating: 



fan-shaped crystals : images much distorted. 12°40'. 



2. Lafayette, Pa. Clear. 15°. 



3. Lafayette, Pa. Foliated talc ; distorted images. 15°. 



4. Harford Co., Md. White. 15°. 



5. Shetland Is. Clear pale green, sometimes nearly 



uniaxial. 17°. 



Pijrophyllite. 

 Westana, Sweden. 106°51'. 



Serpentine. 



Chrj'sotile from Chester Co., Pa., shows strong double refraction 

 when the fibres make an angle of 45° with the plane of polariza- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



tion of the in.strument. Bissectrix apparently parallel to the 

 fibres. Probably orthorhorabic. Common serpentine and Wil- 

 liamsite show no double refraction. 



Damovrite. 



1. Culsagee, X. C. In scales : analyzed l»y Koenig. 



(F. A. Genth.) ' OG°lT'dr. 



2. Unionville, Pa. " Emerylite: " irregular hyper- 



bolas. (A. X.S.) 69°35'±. 



3. Unionville, Pa. On corundum. 72°. 



4. Unionville, Pa. " Corundellite." (J. M. Car- 



deza.) 72°. 



5. Horsjoberg, Sweden. (T. D. Rand.; 72^25'. 



6. Chester Co., Pa. " Margarite : " irregular, show- 



ing sometimes foiir hyperbolas. (A. X. S.) 72^30'. 



7. Haj'wood, X. C. "Altered from corundum." (F. 



A. Genth) 74°. 



8. Unionville, Pa. Anah'zed b}- Sharpless. (F. A. 



Genth.) 74 = 10'. 



9. Unionville, Pa. Analyzed by Koenig. (F. A. 



Genth.) 74 = 1.5'. 



10. Xewtown, Conn. With Cyunite. 74°24'. 



11. Xewlin, Chester Co. "Margarite."' (A. X. S.) 75°50'. 



It is evident that the minerals labelled Emerylite, Corundellite, 

 Margarite, etc., are all Damourite. 



Euplujllite. 



1. Chester Co., Pa. (A. X. S.) 37°-40°. 



2. Uni<mville, Pa. "Original." (F. A. Genth.) 36°30'. 



A thicker piece in which the hyperbolas were very dim, had an 

 angle of 45°ih. 



This result is interesting, as the optical angle given by Silliman 

 is 71°. 



Cookeite. 



Paris, Me. In small scales. 42°-10'. 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Vermiculite. 



1. E. Xottingham, Chester Co., Pa. HaUite. In 



green crystals : uniaxial. 0*^. 



2. Cecil Co., Md., Magnesia Quarry. IlalUte. Con- 



tains enclosed arrow-shaped crystals like Hal- 

 lite : nniaxial. 0°. 



3. Chester Co., Pa., Brown's Quarry. TTniaxial. 



(T.D. Rand.) 0^. 



4. Macon Co., N. C. Maconite. In brown scales ; 



uniaxial or with a divergence of 1°±:. (F. 



A. Genth.) " "" 1°±. 



5. Mineral Hill, Del. Co.. Pa. Pale green. (A. N. S.) 19^. 



6. Lenni, Del. Co., Pa. Brown and green ; some- 



times a very small optic angle occurs. 19°-20°. 



7. Culsagce, N. C. Culsageeite. Yellowish-brown: 



variable angle. Sometimes the angle varies 

 as different portions of the same piece are 

 moved into the field. One piece gave 9°, 

 and another was nearl}' uniaxial. The angle 

 given is the most constant one. 20° =t. 



8. West Chester, Pa. Jefferiaite. Variable angle : 



a specimen gave at one part 16°30', and at 

 another 25°, the latter being the most distinct ; 

 a very thin piece gave 11°30', and a thicker 

 piece 27°20'. ' Apparently the optic-angle in- 

 creases with the thickness of the plate. Some 

 good specimens gave 22°, 25°, and 28° ; mean 

 angle probably, 26 °±. 



9. Lafayette Soapstone Quarry, Montgomery Co., 



Pa. Brown scales in chlorite slate : constant 

 angle 32°-36°30' ; mean, 34°±. 



10. Germantown, Phila. Brown plates in hornblende 

 rock. Optic-angle constant within 31°20'- 

 39'30' ; the most constant angle is 3T°±. 



It is very probable that, as suggesded by Prof. Cooke, the varia- 

 tion in the optic-angle of the Yermiculites is caused by twinning 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILaDKLPIIIA. 261 



Eipidolite. 



1. Patterson's Quarry, Xewlin Township, Chester 



Co., Pa. Irreijular green plates; with corun- 

 dum ; inclination of bissectrix to normal to 

 cleavage plane, 5*^30': optic-axial divergence 

 variable on the same plate on account of twin- 

 ning, varying from 50° to 59°30'. (T. P. 

 Rand.) Generally as given. .lO'^SO'. 



2. West Chester, Pa. Green plates ; inclination of 



Itissectrix 10- : axial divergence, 78°3f)'. 



3. Brinton's Quarry, Chester Co., Pa. Fine clear 



green plates ; inclination of bissectrix, 12-30'. 



f) ^ V. Axial divergence, 82'^. 



4. Dudley ville, Ala. Pale rose-color; on chromite. 



Inclination of bissectrix, 16°. o > v. ( F. 



A. Genth). 94°15'. 



In all of these, doul)le refraction is feeble compared with that of 



Muscovite. It is observed that the inclination of the bissectrix 



to the normal to the cleavage plane increases with the divergence 



of the optic axes. 



Froclilorite . 



Brewster, X. Y.. Tilly Foster Mine. Uniaxial. 0°. 



Margarite. 



1. Cullakanee, X. C. White, "altered from corun- 



dum." Irregular figures. (F. A. Genth.) 110°±. 



2. Chester, Mass. Rose-color, with corundum ; 



irregular, in some places showing four hyper- 

 bolas ; one piece gave 89^30'. 112 45'. 



3. Dndleyville, Ala. White, clear; inclination of 



bissectrix, 1°±. (F. A. Genth). 122'-" 1 5'. 



4. Cullakanee, X. C. White. " altered from Zoisite." 



Inclination of bissectrix to normal to cleavage 

 plane, 2°±. (F. A. Genth.) 124^. 



The large optic-axial divergence of Margarite readily distin- 

 guishes it from Damourite and other micas which resemble it. If 

 further observations agree in showing that the bissectrix is inclined 

 to the normal to the cleavage plane, it will show th.st Margarite 

 is Monoclinic and not Orthorhombic as has been supposed. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



October 22, 1877. 



A New Locality for Andlcite — Dr. A. E. Foote called atten- 

 tion to the fact that Analcite had been found at Falls of Schuyl- 

 kill, — a new locality for that mineral. 



November 26, 1877. 



On the Measurement of Plane Angles. — Mr. Lewis described a 

 simple and quick way of measuring plane angles in minerals. It 

 was a method which he had found very useful in the measurement 

 of all edge angles, of cleavage and striution angles, the angles 

 of markings and dendrites in mica, and of other flat angles to 

 which a goniometer could not convenientlj- be applied. 



A paper protractor was constructed, the radii of which, distant 

 each from each 1°, were continued from the circumference 

 to the centre. Horizontal lines, about twenty in number, are 

 drawn across these, parallel to the radius 0° and at right angles 

 to the radius 00°. These lines being parallel, the angles formed 

 b}' the intersection of any radius with each of them are equal. In 

 order to measure the angle of a crystal, it is laid on the protractor, 

 one of its edges is made parallel to a horizontal line, and then the 

 crystal is slid along that line until the other edge, forming with 

 the first the angle to be measured, becomes parallel to one of the 

 intersecting radii. The desired angle is now read off on the cir- 

 cumference of the protractor. Angles approaching 90° are read 

 on one of the upper horizontal lines, while those of less amplitude 

 are read correspondingly farther down. A magnifying lens is 

 conveniently used to determine the exact coincidence of the edges 

 of the crystal with the lines of the protractor. Yer}^ large crys- 

 tals as well as crystals as small as a millimetre in diameter can be 

 measured in this waj'. . 



It was found that this method of measurement wasVery^^conve- 

 nient, and, if the protractor had been carefully made, was exact to 

 within 30' ; while it applied to those cases in which neither the 

 reflective nor the hand goniometer could be used. 



December 17, 1877. 



On an Exfoliating Talc. — Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis described 

 a variety of talc, occurring at the soapstone quarry above Mana- 

 yunk, which is in some respects new. It occurs in fan-like crystals 

 in Dolomite, and is much more similar to P^'rophyllite than to 

 common talc. It moreover differs from common talc b^- exfoliat- 

 ing when held in the flame of a candle or Bunsen burner, and 

 was, therefore, at first mistaken for Pyrophyllite. In the closed 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



tube it exfoliates and gives off water. In optie.il characters 

 it is identical with common talc, having been found to liave an 

 axial divergence of about 12°40', frequentl}* distorted. It is 

 marked with striations or cleavage planes crossing at angles of <;0 ^ 

 and 120°. In this respect it is like Jelferisite or Culsageeite, 

 while in common talc such markings are rarely visible, and never 

 distinct. It has the chemical composition of talc, except that tlu^ 

 j)ercentage of water is larger tiian usual, being 7.02 per centum. 

 None of this water is hygroscopic, as its weight remains constant 

 in a desiccator over sulphuric acid. 



The water of two other tales from the same locality was deter- 

 mined. A massive tale which does not exfoliate iu the Bunsen 

 burner flame or in the platinum crucible, but does so at the point 

 of the blowpi])e flame, contains 4.23 per centum of water. 



A foliated tale which is caused to exfoliate only veiy slightly 

 even in the blowpipe flame, contained 2.84 per centum of water, 

 and this was driven off only at an extremeh" high_and long 

 continued beat. 



In these three talcs, therefore, we have the interesting results: 



1. That there is a direct ratio between the amount of combined 

 water and the amount of exfoliation. 



2. That there is a direct ratio between the tenacity with which 

 the water is held and the temperature at which exfoliation occui's. 



It is thought that perhaps these results may have a bearing in 

 an explanation of the properties of the various Vermiculites. 



January 28, 1ST8. 



Tin in Norih Carolina. — Mr. Lewis exhibited a small piece 

 of tin ore said to have been found in Surry Co., N. C, and which 

 had been handed to him for examination. It was a soft, light 

 earth}' mass of a brown color, crumbling when pressed, whicli. 

 when held in a candle flame, became covered with small globules 

 of pure tin. The earthv base was a silicate of alumina, iron, and 

 lime, and was partiall}' soluble in acid. The tin was reduceil by 

 very gentle heat, far less than that required to reduce Cassiterite. 

 It was suggested that the tin existed in it either native or as an 

 ochre or h3drous oxide. No sulphides were present. It was 

 (luestioned whether the specimen exhibited was a geuniiu' n:itive 

 product. 



A Nexo Locality for Gypsum. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand announced 

 his discovery of gypsum, as an clUoreo-cu'-e upon gneiss. ;it :i 

 quarry near Darb} , Pa. 




254 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



ON SIDEROPHYLLITE— A NEW MINERAL. 

 BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS, 



A.mong other interesting minerals Avhicli are found in the neigh- 

 borhood of Pike's Peak, Colorado, is a hard black mica, occurring 

 sometimes in large and fine cr3'stals, which the writer has been 

 unable to identify with any known species. 



It is monoclinic, and has an eminent micaceous basal cleavage. 

 It has the following characters : 



Hardness, 3.2. Specific gravitj'', 3.1. Lustre, bright micaceous. 

 Color, black by reflected light, and fine chrome-green b}' trans- 

 mitted light. Opaque except in very thin pieces. Streak, pale 

 green. Laminre very brittle. Biaxial ; optic-axial divergence 10°zh. 



In its composition it appears to be an iron-alumina mica. The 

 analysis here given is a mean of two made by the writer. In one 

 the mineral was fused with sodic carbonate before solution, and in 

 the other it was dissolved in hydrochloric acid. The analyses 

 were performed in the usual way. Iron was estimated by solution 

 in sulphuric acid in a closed flask, and subsequent titration. The 

 percentage of alkalies was kindly determined by Mr. F. A. Genth, 

 Jr. The percentage of water is that given ofi' on moderate igni- 

 tion. On strong ignition the mineral loses over 3 per centum of 

 its weight, some of the alkalies being driven off. 



O ratio. 



2.44 

 1.25 



1.22 



2.00 

 1.02 



1.00 



99.86 



This gives R : R : Si ^ 1 : 1 : 2, and for the ratio of bases to 

 Silica 1:1. It is therefore a Unisilicate in which the water is 

 basic. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPIIIA. 255 



It has the formula 



g4i|0j|(i(K. ^) + hi^ ^)r 

 and the symbol 



R3, r-i. , DJg, 0,,. 



Before the blowpipe it fuses with intumescence at about 2.5 to 

 a black glass. It sometimes gives a red lithia color to the flame. 

 It is soluble in hj'drochloric and sulphuric acids, with separation 

 of silica. In its pyrognostic properties it is thus similar to Annite, 

 although Annite is less fusible. Its oxygen ratio is that of Biotite, 

 but the absence of magnesia, and its ph3'sical and optical proper- 

 ties, distinguish it from that mineral. It occurs in good crystals 

 back of Pike's Peak, Colorado. Amazon-stone and Astrophyllite 

 occur in the vicinity. The material upon which this investigation 

 has been made was obtained from Dr. A. E. Foote, of this city. 



The name of Sideruphyllite {oioyjpoq <fu)Mr,) has been given in 

 allusion to the large percentage of iron which it contains. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



February 28, 1878. 



On Sterlingite and Damouriie. — Mr. H. C. Lewis stated that 

 an optical examination of a number of American damonrites had 

 shown that they all had a larue optic-axial divergence. This angle 

 was generally 72'^-'74^. It is an angle somewhat larger than that 

 of niuseovite, and is remarkably constant in different specimens. 

 On the other hand, the original damourite of Delesse has, accord- 

 ing to Dcscloiseaux, an optic-axial divergence of only 10°-12°. 

 No such angle has been found in any of the American damonrites. 

 As it has been shown that damourite ("hydro-mica") is an im- 

 portant element in onr rocks, and is of wide distribution and 

 frequent occurrence, it is essential that its characters should be 

 well known. 



The damourite of Sterling, Mass., conforming precisely', both as 

 to composition and structure, with the type of American damourite, 

 and -which Prof. Cooke has shown to have an optic-axial divergence 

 of 70° lb, has been named by hhn, Sterlingite. This distinctive 

 name was given soleh^ on account of its larger optic angle. But 

 it appears that this large angle is characteristic of all American 

 damonrites, and probably of many European ones.' It therefoi^e 

 follows either that all of our damonrites should be called Sterlingite, 

 or that the name should be dropped ; there would otherwise be 

 confusion. Notwithstanding tlie exceptional optical character of 

 the mineral examined by Dcscloiseaux, it is thought that identity 

 of chemical composition and of physical properties is sufficient 

 reason for retaining the original name of Damourite. 



March 25, 18Y8. 



Vanadium in Philadelphia Rocks — Mr. Lewis said that he had 

 discovered the presence of Vanadium in hornblendic gneiss near 

 Wayne Station, Germantown. The presence of sphene in that 

 rock suggested the search for vanadium, recent researches having 

 shown that this element frequently accompanies titanium. The 

 following method was employed for its detection. The pvd- 

 A'crized rock was slowlj' heated in a crucible with sodic carbonate 

 and sulphur. After partial fusion the mass was digested in warm 

 water and the filtrate acidified. The precipitate was washed, ignited, 

 and fused with sodic carbonate and sodic nitrate. It was now 

 digested in water, filtered, the filtrate concentrated, and solid 

 amraonic chloride added. A precipitate fell, which Avas found 

 by blowpipe and other tests to contain pure vanadium. An 

 exfoliating hydrous mica occurred at this locality, resulting 



^ V. " The optical characters of some Micas :" by H. C. Lewis, Proc. 

 Min. and Geob Section, October 22, 1877. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



perhaps from the alteration of hornblende, and which was believed 

 to be a new species, in whicli there was .38 per centum of oxide of 

 vanadium. 



A New Locality for Epsomite. — Mr. Lewis reported having 

 found Epsomite in Sideling Hill Tunnel, E. Broad Top K. R., 

 JIuntiH<iton Co.. Pa. It there occurs in small, colorless, acicular 

 crystals in an olive-colored shale in the lower part of the Vesper- 

 tine formation (No. X). 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMK^ OF [1880. 



November 25. 18T8. 



THE SURFACE GEOLOGY OF PHILADELPHIA AND VICINITY. 



BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS. 



At intervals during the past j-ear the Avriter has been devoting 

 some attention to tlie gravels and clays of our cit}', and although 

 the work as yet is only preliminar}^, and is still in progress, it is 

 thought that a sketch of what has been done may serve to show 

 what an interesting field is open for more thorough investigation, 

 A large number of localities have been examined and manj' sec- 

 tions have been made, but it is proposed at present merel}- to 

 summarize the facts observed. 



The Upland Terrace. — 1. A traveller going from the city upon 

 the Germantown Railroad will notice in the cuttings for new 

 streets between Tenth and Broad Streets, and in the railroad cut 

 at Xew York Junction, numerous exposures of red or j-ellow 

 gravel, often overlaid bj- cla}-. The brickyards in the vicinity of 

 Xicetown expose large beds of brick-clay containing occasional 

 well-rounded boulders and pebbles. The land so far has been 

 comparatively level, and no rocks have been seen. Just before 

 reaching Wayne Station, rocks rise upon both sides of the road, 

 the clay and gravel disappear, and a rolling wooded country is 

 entered. A thin covering of light micaceous soil containing no 

 pebbles or boulders covers the gneissic rocks from here to Chest- 

 nut Hill. There is a great contrast between the two regions. 



2. On the Pennsj-lvania Railroad it will be noticed that, soon 

 after leaving the depot, gravel covers the rocks along the Schuyl- 

 kill, and as the railroad turns back from the river, a plateau of 

 clay follows. The Centennial grounds lie upon this clay, and 

 boulders are frequent. Upon reaching Fiftj'-seventh Street, op- 

 posite Belmont and George's Hill, the hill is entered by a cut, the 

 rocks come to the surface, and the drift is no more seen. 



3. Again, on the North Pennsylvania Railroad gravels first 

 appear, then, on higher ground, clay, and soon after passing Green 

 Lane Station, the rocky uplands, free from drift. 



4. So, too, on the West Chester Railroad, gravels and clays 

 cover the ground up to the base of the hill on which Swarthmore 

 College stands. 



5. On the other hand, the New York division of the Pennsyl- 

 vania Railroad and the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPinA. 259 



Railroad, which run paniHcl with tlie Dehiwarc Fuver, do not 

 rise out of the region of drift. 



Now, connecting by a line the four points mentioned, it will 

 be found to represent a long straight hill 200 feet or more in 

 height, having a northeast and southwest trend, parallel to the 

 river, and lying at a mean distance from it of about four miles. 

 We have traced it from Bucks County, through Philadelphia and 

 Delaware Counties, into the State of Delaware, and fiud that it 

 uniformly defines the western boundary of the drift. Tiiis hill is 

 easily recognized where uncrossed by creeks, being remarkably 

 straiglit and of uniform height. It forms the limit of tidewater, 

 and is recognized where it crosses streams by the occurrence of 

 rapids or falls. Being the lirst hill of importance west of the 

 Delaware, it often commands a fine view and is a favorite site for 

 residences. The geographical position of this ancient terrace 

 may be more exactly defined in the vicinit}' of Philadelphia, as 

 the hill which crosses Second Street Pike near Foxchase, and 

 crossing Tacony Creek farther south, runs nearly parallel with 

 it as far as Crescentville ; which crosses Green Lane and Xew 

 Second Street road near the place of Mr. J. L. Fisher ; crosses the 

 Xorth Pennsylvania Railroad above Olney road, and the York 

 road below the Jewish Hospital ; which crosses Germantown 

 Avenue at the railroad bridge (being here called Xegley's Hill), 

 and running along the railroad to beyond Wayne Station, passes 

 back of the Germantown Cricket Ground, past Old Oaks Cemetery 

 to Falls of Schuylkill. Thence, passing Chamouni, Belmont, and 

 George's Hill, it crosses the Pennsylvania Railroad near Heston- 

 ville, and Haverford Road at Haddington ; passes back of the 

 Burd Orphan Asylum into Delaware County, and runs north of 

 Kelleyville, Clifton and Morton to Swarthmore College, and 

 thence past Village Green into Delaware. 



Tliis hill, which is approximately parallel not only to the river, 

 but also to the shore of the Atlantic Ocean and to the line of 

 strike of the Cretaceous formations of New Jersey, forms, as we 

 have seen, the main dividing line between the ancient and the 

 modern formations.,. , 



We shall call it for convenience the Ujiland Terrace. The strike 

 of the gneiss forming it corresponds closely with the trend of the 

 terrace itself. A boulder-bearing clay rests upon its southeastern 

 slope at a uniform elevation of InO-lTO feet above mean ocean- 

 level. While it is true that, as will appear hereafter, there are 




2G0 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



patches of an ancient gravel on high points back of it, the Upland 

 Terrace nevertheless remains as tlie most important ^-eological 

 feature in sontheastern Pennsylvania. , . 



Between the Upland Terrace and the Delaware, clays and gravels 

 cover the rocks in a continuous sheet except where eroded away 

 in the neighborhood of streams. The amount of their erosion is 

 in some respects a measure of the age of the surface formations. 

 It has been noticed that these formations in the vicinity of Phila- 

 delphia have undergone very different amounts of erosion, the 

 amount of such erosion increasing as we recede from the Delaware ; 

 and this fact is regarded as offering evidence that the deposits are 

 of different ages ; those lying farthest from the river and highest 

 in elevation being the most ancient, and those which are close to 

 the river, which have undergone but little erosion, being the most 

 modern of our surface formations. Examples of erosion of the 

 Philadelphia gravel may l)e well seen on the Philadelphia and 

 West Chester Railroad which crosses a number of creeks and runs 

 nearl}' parallel to the terrace for several miles. As each creek is 

 approached the drift ^ disappears and rocks come to the surface. 

 So on the Schuylkill, no gravel is seen on the river drive in the 

 East Park, but upon going back from the river and rising 100 feet 

 above it, as far as the East Park Reservoir, gravel appears abun- 

 dantly. Yet on the same river, nearer the Delaware, a newer 

 gravel, made of different materials, not only forms its banks but 

 underlies it. 



Recent Alluvium.— The most recent of all the surface deposits 

 is the stiff bluish clay which covers the low ground in the southern 

 part of the city. The Richmond meadows and the flats of Moya- 

 mensing, Greenwich and Tinicum are covered b}^ this deposit. It 

 is bounded by a low terrace which may be called " The Floodplain 

 Terrace.''^ This terrace, up to which the river often comes in 

 times of flood, crosses South Broad Street diagonally below Moya- 

 mensing Avenue, and crossing the Delaware extension of the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad near Penrose Ferry Road, winds around 

 Point Breeze Park back towards the Gas Works, and passing 

 below Suffolk Park crosses into Delaware County. This terrace 

 is about ten feet above mean tide. It is the lowest and newest of 

 all the terraces and is formed of the next older formation, the 

 " River gravel." The mud or clay lying between this terrace and 



' The term "drift" here includes all superficial formations of whatever age. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PiriLADKLPin A. 201 



the river is too stiff to be useful for brickmaking. Blaekencd 

 fragTiients of twigs, roots and leaves are frequent in it, and it is 

 said that trunks of the white cedar abound in it in some places. 

 There is here an indication that these beds are sinking and that, 

 as on the Atlantic coast, the water is encroaching. Frequently 

 a good peat covers the clay. 



The River Gravel. — Forming the Floodplain Terrace and lying 

 back of it, is a light sand and gravel free from day, which may 

 be designated the "Kiver Gravel," since it formed the ancient river 

 bed. It is composed of a light micaceous sand made from the 

 wear of gneissic rocks, overlying a clean, loose gravel, whose peb- 

 bles are composed of the rocks which form the river bottom farther 

 north. The pebbles are generally flattened and are composed of 

 gneiss, Triassic red shale, Triassic argillite, etc. It is of a gi'ay 

 color, white quartz pebbles being comparatively scarce. It under- 

 lies the river to a great depth and forms islands in it. Frequently 

 large boulders lie upon the river gravel. Bridesburg and the 

 Lazaretto are built upon it. The sand is used for building pur- 

 poses. It is bounded hy the " River Gravel Terrace^^ a terrace 

 rising some twenty feet above mean tide, and which is capped by 

 the red gravel and brick-clay about to be described, while rocks 

 are frequentl}' exposed at its base. The Chester Branch of the 

 Reading Railroad lies below this terrace, and the present line of 

 the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad is above it. 



The Red Gravel and ]>rivI>--Clai/f!. — The built-up portion of the 

 cit}' stands upon an extensive deposit of brick-clay and gravel, 

 sections of which are exposed in every cutting. The brick-clay 

 invariably- overlies the gravel, and will tlierefore be first described. 

 By far the finest exposures of brick-clay are those on either side 

 of Long Lane, in the " Neck.'' The clay here is ver}' compact, 

 free from sand and gravel, and is often 15 feet or more in depth. 

 Loam lies above it, and is mixed with it for brick-making. Well- 

 rounded boulders of Potsdam, Medina, Trias, etc., are frequent. 

 The whole lies upon some 20 feet of stratified gravel. It is a 

 much finer and deeper clay than that of the northern pai't of the 

 city, as at !Nicetown. It is interesting to note that while the claj' 

 which is farthest from the Upland Terrace and lowest in elevation 

 is purest and deepest, on the other hand that near the terrace 

 and more than 100 feet above the river is both shallow and sandy. 

 It suggests that the former was deposited in deep water ami the 

 latter near the shore. At the base of the terrace the clay is but 




2G2 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1880. 



two or three feet deep. The l)ouklers of the Nicetown claj^ are 

 simihir to those of the Neck clay, except in the fact that in the 

 latter there are numerous rounded and sharp fragments of triassic 

 red shale, while in the former boulders of that material are very 

 scarce. The boulders of both clays are invariably' derived from a 

 northern source. No shells or orgauic remains have as j'et been 

 uotioed in this formation. 



Beneath the clay, and often imconformable with it, is the riiila- 

 delphia red gravel. It is a clayey gravel which packs well ami is 

 much used on roads, and whose red color is caused by the ferru- 

 ginous cla}' in which the pebbles are imbedded. The pebbles are 

 composed of all kinds of rock and are not flattened as are those in 

 the river gravel. The predominant material is white quartz, but 

 pebbles of all other materials, as conglomerate, sandstone, fossil- 

 iferous hornstone, flint, red shale, etc., are numerous. Stratifica- 

 tion is observed in almost every section exposed. Good sections 

 of gravel are seen near the University of Pennsjdvania. It has 

 here an elevation of about 50 feet, and comes to the surface of the 

 ground with but a very slight covering of clay. The gravel is 

 here over 15 feet deep, and as it is in some respects a typical 

 exposure, a section is herewith presented. 



Ft. Fig. 1. 



BRICK-CLAT, 



RED GRAVEL. 



BLACK GRAVEL. 

 YELLOW GRAVEL. 



MICACEOUS SAND. 

 B0DLDER8. 

 DECOMPOSED GNEISS. 



10 

 1 



5 



3 

 1 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



It -will be noticed, in the first place, that the cla}' lies in the 



form of crests and hollows u])On tlie 2:ravel. This is almost inva- 



rinlily the case. JJeautifiil examples of wave motion may he seen 



at Twenty -eighth Street and Columbia Avenue, at Tenth and 



Tioga, at Fifteenth and Clearfield Streets, and in Fairmount Park. 



In each of these we have apparently- the action of a rushing flood 



of water upon the gravel. Often the clay lies in a kind of pot-hole 



in the gravel, and a concentric structure of clay-and pebbles can 



be seen. The following section, at Twenty-eighth Street and 



Columbia Avenue, shows six well-marked waves of gravel and 



clay, the clay always filling the hollows between the crests of 



gravel. it-in-jJU; 



Fig. 2. 



S \i 



The approximate dimensions of the waves are given in the 

 diagram. Along the line of contact between clay and gravel there 

 arc alternate streaks of fine and coarse gravel. 



A ver}' beautiful example of water action is exposed at Fifteenth 

 and Clearfield Streets, in a cut about 100 feet in length (Fig. 3). 



The second point to be noticed in the section near the Univer- 

 sity is the stratification of the gravel, and its division into layers 

 of three different colors, — red, black and yellow. It is instructive 

 to note that this division is b}- no means a local one, but exists 

 along a line of about equal elevation (60 to 80 feet above ocean level), 

 in widely separated parts of the city. While the colors are of 

 course due simply to dili'erent States of oxidation of the iron, the 

 fact that the}' mark continuous deposits through long distances, 

 indicates a uniformity' in the condition of deposition which could 

 be due only to the presence of a large body of water. 



In the third place, the section (Fig. 1) shows tlie important fiict 

 that the gravel rests, not upon a hard floor of rock, as is usual with 

 the drift in more northern States, but upon a completeh' decomposed 

 gneiss. This is universally the case in every section examined in 

 the vicinity of Philadelphia. In no case does the gravel rest upon 




2r>4 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



unaltCT-ed rock, except possibly in tlio 

 vicinity of streams where the water luis 

 eroded away the soft rock. In such i)Osi- 

 tions. however, the gravel also is usuall}- 

 eroded, except in the case of the " River 

 gravel " proper. It will be observed that 

 a sharp stratified micaceous sand, made up 

 of the materials of the decomposed gneiss, 

 and often showing " flow and plunge " 

 structure, lies below the gravel. In the 

 section given, a well-rounded boulder of a 

 lower Silurian sandstone is seen partially 

 imbedded in the decomposed gneiss. This 

 fact otters two interesting deductions : — 



(1.) That the gneiss was decomposed 

 before the deposition of the gravel. 



(2.) That water, not ice, was the agent 

 of such deposition. 



(1.) As additional evidence in support 

 of the first deduction, it has been observed 

 in several sections thai portions of the de- 

 composed gneiss have been taken np and 

 intersti'atified in horizontal layers, either 

 with the gneissic sand, or with the gravel 

 itself. That the steeply-dipping decom- 

 posed gneiss should be thus re-stratified, as 

 though by a flood, and that, on the other 

 hand, no such phenomena are ever observed 

 in undoubted glaciated regions, can only be 

 explained upon the assumption that the 

 gneiss was decomposed before the Grlacial 

 epoch. That such decomposition took 

 place in a j-et earlier geological age, will be 

 indicated below under a description of the 

 " Bryn Mawr gravel." 



(2.) Absence of a glacier in this region 

 is indicated by the wave-like junction of 

 gravel and clay, by the stratification of the 

 gravel, and by the presence of decomposed 

 gneiss. No polished surfaces of rock have 



riG. 3. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIKXCES OF PIIILADELI'niA. 265 



ever been observed in tliis rt'irion, ultlioii<»h the occasional slicken- 

 sides upon the f^nciss in some <[uarries has been mistaken for 

 glacial strije. Frequently the h)wer yelhnv gravel is replaced by 

 a 3'ellow sand more or less line, wliicli is used for buikling purposes ; 

 and in this there are often good examples Ijoth of oblique lamination 

 and of " flow and plunge;" — structures attributable t<j flowing 

 water. Examples may be seen on the North Penna. R. K. and in 

 the East Park. The boulders of both clay and gravel, if not 

 brought down by water alone, have been droi)ped by floating ice. 

 The absence of life in either deposit indicates that the water was 

 too cold to support it. 



The conclusion is therefore forced upon us that, during the 

 melting of the great Northern (ilacier, whose southern terminus 

 crossed the river probably near Belvidere, the flooded Delaware, 

 then a great torrent five or ten miles wide and at least 150 feet 

 deeper than it is now, deposited at first gravels and afterwards, 

 when quieter, clays; while floating ice carried down already rounded 

 boulders and dropped them upon its bed. 



The uniform elevation of the edge of the clay at the base of 

 tlie Upland Terrace can hardl}' be accounted for upon another 

 hypothesis. 



The presence of an actual glacier over this region has, however, 

 been brought forward as the only explanation of our surface 

 deposits. Thus, in a recent paper,' the author, after inspection 

 of a gravel opening in West Philadelphia, concludes " that this 

 belt of drift deposit is no other than a glacial moraine formed by 

 the Schuylkill glacier receding from the site of the city.'' He 

 adds, " the surface of the gneiss where laid bare is comparatively 

 smooth, and shows evidence of having been polished, though so 

 soft as not to retain the marks of glaciation." To us the very 

 locality described (Forty -fifih and Spruce) otters strong evidence 

 of the absence of all glacial action. The gravel, containing no 

 scratched pe])bles, is horizontally stratified and shows flow and 

 plunge structure; while the underlying decomposed gneiss, so far 

 from being polished, is seen in several places to have been taken 

 up by the swiftly flowing water and mingled with the gravel whieh 

 it bore along, so that several layers of deeoini)osed gneiss, each 

 about half an inch in thickness, and soon dying (uit. alternate with 

 the lower portion of the gravel. 



> "On Glacial Deposits at AV. Pliila," I'roo. Am. Phil. Soc, Not , 1S75. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



It has been supposed that the bending over of the outcrops of 

 steeply-dipping rocks, sometimes observed near Philadelphia, has 

 been caused b^' the pressure of a glacier, A very beautiful example 

 of such broken and bent-over strata is seen in a quarry at Edge 

 Hill. Tliat such phenomena are to be explained, not by glacial 

 agencies, but by the force of gravitj' onh', — being the gradual 

 sliding-down-hill of tlie soil known as " creep," — is shown by the 

 facts, (1) that such bending over is alwaj^s towards a lower eleva- 

 tion, — down hill ; (2) that on the two slopes of the same hill the 

 strata have been seen to be bent over in opposite directions. 

 Thus at various points along the long ridge of altered Primal 

 slates known as Edge Hill, the slates on one slope are bent towards 

 the south, and on the other towards the north. A similar fact 

 has been noticed in the gneiss forming the Upland Terrace. 

 Moreover, such bending of the strata often occurs in regions quite 

 free from drift. 



If, as we have conjectured, the Delaware Valley was filled with 

 a large body of water when the drift was deposited, it is reason- 

 able to suppose that the Schuylkill also was of far greater size, and 

 that some boulders would be brought down the vallej^ of that 

 stream. Here again facts sustain the hypothesis. In the gravel 

 taken from the excavation for the East Park Reservoir, associated 

 with Triassic red shale and other boulders, we have found partially 

 worn fragments of chlorite slate containing octagonal cr3'Stals of 

 magnetite, evidently' derived from the steatite quarry at Lafayette, 

 six miles above on the Schuylkill. At Twenty-eighth Street and 

 Columbia Avenue is a large boulder of trap, identical with that of 

 the trap-dj'ke which crosses the Schuylkill River at Conshohocken. 



It thus appears that during the Glacial epoch the waters of the 

 Schuylkill emptied into those of the Delaware at Falls of Schuyl- 

 kill, the city proper being entirely submerged. 



Before closing our account of the Philadelphia red gravel — the 

 " University gravel," as it might be called for distinction — it will 

 be necessary to say a word as to what occurs on the New Jersey 

 side of the river. If we are correct in ascribing this gravel and 

 brick-clay to a flooded river valley, similar deposits at the same 

 elevation must be found on both sides of the river. Although we 

 have been able to do but very little work upon this point in that 

 State, it has been observed: (1) That there is a sand at Camden 

 near the river, similar to the sand of the " River gravel " of lower 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Philadelphia ; (2) that at a higlior elevation there are deposits of 

 superlicial yellow briek-clay quite distiiiet from the underlying 

 plastic flays ; (8) that boulders identical with those on this side 

 of the river occur in the brick-clay ; (4) that a stratified red gravel 

 containing Triassic shale, and similar to the Universit}* gravel 

 occurs; and, (5) that there are indications of the existence of a 

 Terrace, several miles from the river, bounding the brick-clay and 

 its bonlders, and composed of an older, and probabl}' oceanic, 

 gravel and sand. 



The Fossiliferous Gravel. — There seems to be evidence that 

 between the Upland Terrace and the River Gravel Terrace there 

 is an intermediate terrace, back of which is a gravel somewhat 

 different from the Philadelvjhia red gravel. It is characterized by 

 comparative absence of Triassic red shale, and by the presence of 

 numerous pebbles of flint, hornstone, or limestone, -which are fre- 

 quently fossiliferous. These pebbles, as well as those of white 

 quartz, are not fresh-looking, but are eaten and weather-worn by 

 age. In both its position and its appearance it is an older forma- 

 tion than the red gravel. It is of a j-ellowish color, becoming 

 white when exposed to the weather, and is more sand}' than the 

 red gravel. For these reasons it is less esteemed for road-making. 

 The Germantown Railroad cuts through this gravel at New York 

 Junction. We have found here pebbles containing Cyathophyl- 

 loid corals, Favosites, a Trilobite, etc. The Connecting Railroad 

 at Ridge Avenue Station cuts through the same gravel, and here 

 we have found Strojjhomena, etc. Other fossils have been found 

 below the clay in the East Park and at the Centennial Grounds. 



This gravel is found on the high level plateau which lies at the 

 base of the Upland Terrace, and is covered b}' more recent brick- 

 clay. It lies farther from the river and at a higher elevation tlian 

 the red gravel, and there is a decided rise in the ground from the 

 latter to the former. This terrace has been observed in many 

 places near and in the city, but has not as yet been traced con- 

 tinuously, and its existence is doubtful. Nearly all the brick-yards 

 in the city, except those in the " Neck," lie upon this gravel and 

 back of this terrace, whicli lies at a mean distance of about a mile 

 inside of the Upland Terrace. It seems as though the flood, 

 diminishing in breadth, had eroded away the chiy within this '' Red 

 Gravel Terrace." Tlie red gravel comes to the surface, with 

 very little overlying clay, at elevations below about 100 feet; 

 while at a higher elevation is the brick-yard plateau. 




2()8 PROCEEDINGS OV TUK ACADEMY OF [1880- 



Tho roiinsylvania Hospital for the Insane staiuls upon the liill 

 lonaing this inner univel Terrace. Its course is soniewlmt pai'allel 

 to the main Uphind Terrace, and it crosses Wahiut Street near 

 Fiftieth Street, and Broad Street near the Reading Coal Road cross- 

 ing. In Prof. Rogers' Geological Map of Pennsylvania, where a 

 rough attempt is made to represent the boundary of the drift, the 

 line in one place corresponds quite closely with what we have pre- 

 sumed to be the " Red Gravel Terrace ; " but it appears that in most 

 places in that map the boundary is meant to be merely a hypoth- 

 etical one. While the existence of this inner terrace is yet doubt- 

 ful, and while it is probable that red gravel will be found above it and 

 fossiliferous gravel below it, yet nothing has yet appeared to con- 

 trovert the assumption that the latter gravel is older than the 

 former. How much older, and whetiier of oceanic or of fresh- 

 water origin, is not yet determined. Here, again, a study of the 

 New Jersey gi'avels will be of assistance. 



The Branchtovon Clay. — Having now described the surface 

 deposits lying between the Delaware River and the Upland Ter- 

 race, it remains to point out the existence of some isolated patches 

 of gravel and clay which have been noticed on some of the hills 

 back of and above this terrace. A to yliro 8i i\ bar. 



In the village of Branchtown, on a plateau 250 feet above the 

 river, there is a local deposit of brick-clay lying in an oblong belt 

 running N. E. and S. W., perhaps a mile in length and an eighth 

 of a mile in breadth. That it is not a clay formed in place by 

 decomposition of the gneiss is shown by the presence in it of 

 pebbles and rounded boulders of foreign rocks. The smaller 

 l)ebbles consist of quartz, and the larger of a friable quartz sand- 

 stone, probabl^^ Potsdam. Not a single fragment of Triassic red 

 shale, and not a single pebble of flint or fossiliferous rock was 

 found : and in this it is distinguished from any deposit heretofore 

 described. Nor were any of the pebbles formed of the materials 

 of the bed of the Delaware River. Numerous sharp fragments, often 

 six indies square, of white or yellow siliceous sandstone and of 

 brown jaspery quartzite, both probably of lower Silurian age, were 

 found. The peculiar conglomerate described below as " Mt. Holly 

 Conglomerate " does not occur. Decomposed gneiss lies below 

 the clay, which is two to three feet deep. The presence of sharp and 

 rounded boulders of a rock in place farther north suggests an 

 overland Hood during glacial times; but the comi)lete absence of 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



all traces of Triassic red shale, a formation of large extent six miles 

 north of here, over which such a flood must have jiasscd, is diflicult 

 to explain ui)on that hypothesis. This belt of clay, which may be 

 called for convenience the " Branchtown clay," extends S. W. 

 to Chelton Avenue and Chew Street, in Germantown, and to the 

 N. E. to Limekiln Pike and City Line Itoad, and is the site of 

 several brickjards. The clay plateau is bounded on the N. W. by 

 a hill 325 feet high. Doubtless this day will be found in other 

 places, when more light will he thrown upon its origin and age. 



The Bryn Mawr Gravel. — Upon the summits of some of the 

 highest hills in the gneissic region back of Philadelphia, at a mean 

 distance of about nine miles from the river, and at elevations of from 

 825 to 450 feet above it, there are isolated patches of an ancient 

 gravel, different from any yet described, to which we have given the 

 provisional name of " The Bryn Mawr (Jravel." It can always 

 be recognized by the presence of sharp or partially rounded frag- 

 ments of a hard, heavy iron sandstone or conglomerate. Such 

 fragments are often covered by a brownish-black iron glaze. More 

 than ten years ago, the writer noticed in the soil of the upper part of 

 Germantown, pieces of this conglomerate, unlike any known rock, 

 and it is only of late that its origin has been suspected. It con- 

 sists of well-rounded pel)bles of quartzitc or siliceous sandstone 

 cemented by iron into a stone which is often very hard. This 

 conglomerate is found in occasional fragments upon ground over 

 300 feet high, but is not found in abundance until an elevation of 

 over 400 feet is reached. At these highest points it occurs in a 

 red gravel whose pebbles are identical with those of the conglom- 

 erate. 



One of such points is near Chestnut Hill, on the City Line 

 Koad at its higiiest elevation, near Willow Grove Road. Here, 

 nearly nine miles from the river and 425 feet above it, is a patch 

 of this gravel and conglomerate. The larger pebbles and boulders, 

 like those of the Branchtown Cla\', consist of a friable quartzite 

 sandstone or a jaspery quartzite. Sharp fragments of quartzite 

 are numerous; but there are no traces eitlier of Triassicred shale, 

 of fossiliferous pebbles, or of rounded pebbles of the underlying 

 gneiss. It rests upon a much decomi)osed gneiss. The conglom- 

 erate sometimes contains cavities tilled with white sand. The 

 tract of gravel is of an oval form, whose Jiinjoraxis points N. E. 

 and S, W. It crosses the Townshii) Line Koad near the Bethesda 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Ilonie, near which place have been found a sharp boulder of conglom- 

 erate three feet in diameter, several fragments of ferruginous sand- 

 stone equally large, a partially rounded boulder of white (partz 

 nearly four feet long, and numerous fragments of qnartzite and 

 Primal rocks. The gravel is here in part replaced by clay. 



A similar tract of this gravel occurs at liryn MaAvr, extending 

 from that place to near Cooperstown. A good section is exposed 

 in the railroad cut below the station. From this localit}^ so easy 

 of access from the cit}', we have named the formation. It is 

 here about 430 feet high, and nine miles from the river. The 

 gravel is ten feet deep, ahd lies upon a steeply-dipping gneiss so 

 completely decomposed that it is as soft as clay. Underneath the 

 bridge, a soft white kaolin-like material, conformable with the 

 gneiss, shows a decomposed steatite, — being probably the con- 

 tinuation of that which crosses the Schuylkill at Lafayette. Here, 

 as at Chestnut Hill, the gravel lies in an isolated patch upon a hill, 

 distant from any stream or other eroding agency. The gravel 

 holds sharp fragments of primal rocks and also the iron con- 

 glomerate. As at Germantowu, the fields below, to the south, 

 contain occasional fragments of the conglomerate. 



Another good exposure of the Bryn Mawr gravel is on a hill 

 crossed In' the road leading from Haverford College to Coopers- 

 town. The conglomerate is here in large, sharp fragments, and 

 the gravel shows slight horizontal stratification. On the crest of 

 the hill, some 450 feet high, there is a weather-worn boulder, 

 four feet in diameter, of a soft, coarse, brown sandstone of Bryn 

 Mawr age, apparently in place. 



A fourth, precisely similar exposure of gravel with conglom- 

 erate, and at about the same elevation, caps the hill back of Media, 

 near the Kosetree. 



Without describing an}- further exposures, it alread}^ appears 

 that in these elevated patches of ancient gravel we have the last 

 remnants of a once continuous formation. The very great erosion 

 which has swept awa}' all but tliese few traces is a sufficient proof 

 of its age. There are no points at all approaching the elevation 

 of these hills, between them and the Atlantic Ocean; and it is at 

 once suggested that tiiese patches are the remnants of an oceanic 

 deposit, possibly of Tertiary age. It is interesting to find that a 

 preciselj' similar formation caps some of the hills in Xew Je^se^^ 

 On top of the hill at Mount Holly, N. J., is an identical con- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



glomerate and gravel, similar in appearance, and composed of 

 the same materials as the formation in Penn.sylvania. The con- 

 glomerate has the peculiar ferruginous glaze alreadv n<>iif<'(1. 

 It here overlies Cretaceous marls and sands. 



From its alnindance at this place, and in order to show its con- 

 nection with Pennsylvania deposits, we shall call the conglomerate 

 of the Bryn Mawr gravel, ''3//. Holly Conglomerate.^^ Prof. H. 

 D. Rogers^ suggests tliat this rock at Mt. Holl}- may be of Mio- 

 cene age ; but Prof. Cook, not distinguishing it from the modern 

 iron crusts in the red Philadelphia gravel near the river, considers 

 it very recent. In the consideration of its age it is worth noting 

 that the sand of southern New Jersey-, apparently of late Plio- 

 cene age, frequently contains rounded pebbles of Mt. Holl}- con- 

 glomerate, thus showing that the latter is an older formation. 



From the identity of their contained boulders, it is probable 

 that the Branchtown clay and the Br^'n Mawr gravel are nearly 

 coeval. Being oceanic, it is presumed that they will be recognized 

 all along the gneissic hills of the southern Atlantic States. 



We have given this detailed description of each of the surface 

 formations near Philadelphia in the hope that they may be recog- 

 nized elsewhere by other geologists. It has been found that a 

 careful examination of the materials comprising each gravel, taken 

 in connection with their elevation above tide, is the only means of 

 discriminating between them. Desultory- observations in detached 

 localities are of little value. Should this work be extended in 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey, and the distinctions between the 

 four gravels described be carried out, it is thought that, notwith- 

 standing the shifting character of the underlying strata in the 

 latter State, much may be done not only towards an exact deter- 

 mination of their age, but towards a settlement of some of the 

 vexed problems of surface geology in Eastern America. 



Recapitulation. — The results obtained may be briedy summa- 

 rized as follows: — 



Forming the X W. boundary of the Philadelphia gravel and 

 brick-clay is a hill of gneiss, rising 200 feel: or more above the 

 river, which may be called the Upland Terrace. It has a N. E. 

 and S. W. trend, and in this vicinity is at an average distance of 

 five miles from the river. 



' Report ou the Geology of X. J., 1839. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Within tlio Upland Terrace, resting upon its slope, and extend- 

 ing to the river, is a series of stratified gravels and a boulder- 

 bearing briik-claj'. Of these, the oldest is the " Fossiliferous 

 gravel ; " a gravel Ijung near the terrace and under the brick-clay, 

 and containing pebbles which frequently are fossiliferous. Of more 

 recent age, and at a lower level, is the " Philadelphia red gravel," 

 which is made up of the pebbles of the Fossiliferous gravel 

 mixed with fragments of Triassic red shale and other rocks 

 brought down the Delaware Valley. It is distinctly stratified, 

 rests upon decomposed gneiss, and contains rounded boulders 

 dropped by floating ice. Upon both of these gravels rests the 

 Philadelphia brick-clay, often Ij'ing unconformably upon them in 

 a series of pot-holes or wave-like forms, and apparently an aque- 

 ous deposit. 



A yet more recent formation, the " River gravel and sand," 

 lies within the others and close to the river, and is made up of 

 flattened pebbles comiDosed of the rocks over which the river flows. 

 Upon this, in the river flats, lies a modern mud, the " Recent Allu- 

 vium." 



Back of the Upland Terrace, isolated patches of two surface 

 deposits, more ancient than any yet described, lie upon the hills. 

 These are, the " Branchtown clay," at a height of 250 feet, con- 

 taining boulders of Potsdam rocks, but no traces of Triassic red 

 shale or of fossiliferous pebbles ; and the " Bryn Mawr gravel," 

 which caps hills of a higher elevation, and which, containing 

 boulders and pebbles of identical material with those of the last, 

 is characterized by the presence of a hard iron conglomerate or 

 sandstone. This conglomerate, occurring also in New Jersey', 

 and named the " Mt. Holly Conglomerate," is conjectured to be of 

 Tertiary age. 



In these seven formations is written the geologic history of the 

 Delaware Valley. 



Much remains to be done before any certain results can be 

 expected. It is hoped that the imperfect examination here 

 recorded maj^ form the basis for a future and more thorough 

 study, which, extending to wider fields, shall make more exact 

 the knowledge of our surface geology. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCE.S OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



OcTOBEE 28, 1878. 



On a Bell of Sleatile and Serpentine in Radnor, Del. Go. — Mr. 

 Thku. T). Rand read a paper on a belt of Steatite and Serpentine, 

 in Radnor Township, Delaware Co., Pa. 



(Published in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.) 



November 25, 1878. 



Chromite near Radnor.^ Pa. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand announced 

 the occurrence of Chromite in considerable quantity in tlie 

 Southerly Serpentine Belt, near Kadnor Station, Delaware Co., Pa. 




TROCEEDl-NUS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



February 24, 18V9. 



ON RANDITE. 

 BY THEODORE D. HAND. 



At the December meeting of tlie Miiieralogical Section, Mr, 

 Goldsmith made a communication in regard to the uranium-yellow 

 coating found at the south end of the largest quarry at Frankford, 

 northeast of Adams Street, stating that he found in it, carbonic 

 acid, silicic acid, phosphoric acid, uranium, alumina and lime ; 

 and that his conclusion was, that it was a mixture of autunnite 

 and calcite. The writer stated at the same meeting that he 

 had made an incomplete examination of the same mineral, which, 

 in great part, confirmed Dr. Goldsmith's observations, but that he 

 failed to find phosphoric acid, and promised the Section the result 

 of experiments then under way. 



At the meeting of the Academy held December 31st, 1818, Dr. 

 Koenig communicated the results of a full quantitative analysis, 

 giving the composition, a hydrous carbonate of uranium and lime, 

 to which he gave the name Randite. 



The writer's results differ somewhat from those of Mr. Gold- 

 smith and Dr. Koenig. Owing to the very small amount of the 

 coating, and its close adhesion to the rock, proper separation was 

 impossible, and the first experiments were made by treating the 

 rock and coating, first with acetic acid, to remove calcite, then 

 with dilute hydrochloric acid. The coating was unaffected b^^ the 

 acetic acid, as proven by one specimen, in which, after solution of 

 a large amount of calcite, the Randite was left in tufts of acicular 

 crystals. The acetic solution contained chiefly lime, with a little 

 alumina, but no uranium. 



The hydrochloric solution ^delded a small amount of silica, 

 alumina, sulphuric acid, and phosphoric acid, with a large amount 

 of lime and uranium. 



In the treatment with acetic acid, bubbles appeared to rise from 

 the coating — a multitude of tiny bubbles ; on the succeeding treat- 

 ment with hydrochloric acid, the bubbles were much larger, and 

 fewer in number, and appeared to rise from a carbonate in the 

 crevices of the rock. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELIMIIA. 275 



The })roportion between the lime and uranium may be given as 

 follows : 



Koenig. Rand, 1. Rand, 2, 



Lime, 50 88 20 



Uranium, 44 02 74 



10.708 gm. of coated rock, after treatment with acetic acid, 

 yielded to 8 p. c. hydrochloric acid, cold, in about five minutes 

 (the coating having disappeared), .122. On evaporating the 

 solution to dryness there was a residue less than .001 gm. The 

 solution was precipitated by ammonia, in the presence of chloride 

 of ammonium ; the solution with oxalate of ammonia gave car- 

 bonate of lime, .0365. The precipitate treated with acetic acid 

 dissolved wholly, except .001 of a white precipitate, which con- 

 tained phosphoric acid, and was probably phosphate of alumina. 

 The solution precipitated b}- phosphate of soda gave phos. uran., 



.0711 =U2O3.05G9. 



Per cent . 



Tranic oxide, .0569 40.71 



Lime, .0204 10.71 



Phos. al? .001 .89 



L'ndetermined, .35.69 



100. . 



About 100 grams of the rock, free from the coating, were treated 

 with acetic acid in excess. A large amount of lime was dissolved, 

 and a trace of alumina. The residue, treated with hydrochloric 

 acid, yielded a little silica, some alumina, and considerable lime. 



I infer from these tests that the mineral has not the composition 

 obtained by Dr. Koenig, and that further investigation is needed, 

 if pure material can be obtained. 




276 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



March 24, 1879. 



Soine Microscopic Enclositres in Mica. — Mr. Thko. D. Rand 

 described, and exhibited under the microscope, certain crystals, 

 etc., included in iniea, chiefly from Swain's quarr}', Chester Co, Pa. 



Of these, the magnetite dendritic markings, and similar mark- 

 ings of red and brown colors, apparentl}' due to oxidation of the 

 magnetite, are most common and best known. Besides these the 

 following occur : — 



Hexagonal crystals, black and opaque ; angles, 60° and 120°. In 

 the form of the crystal in this description, the form of the section 

 exhibited under the microscope is intended. A similar crystal, 

 brown in color, perhaps the same substance, translucent; probably 

 biotite or lepidomelane. 



Hexagonal or rhombic crystals of a bright red color, sometimes 

 with the angles modified ; angles (iO'-' and 120°. There are some 

 specimens which indicate the change of the black into the red 

 rhombs. One of the red rhombs contained a black crystal, with 

 faces parallel to those of the red, and one, a very S3'mnietrical and 

 simple crystal, from near Newtown Square, Delaware Co., Pa., 

 was black for about one-fourth its length, the remainder red. 



Rhombic cr3^stals, polarizing light, giving very brilliant colors. 

 At first this was supposed to be due to films of the mica itself, but 

 the regularity and brilliancy of the rliombs, compared with the 

 mica, and their angles, seem to render this more than doubtful, the 

 angles being between 73j° and 78°. They are almost universall}' 

 accompanied by, and in contact with, the red or black rhombs, 

 and generally both. 



Quartz crystals, generally flattened, sometimes verj- minute, 

 sometimes large enough for the crystallization to be seen with the 

 naked eye ; generally masses of crj^stals, showing distinct crystal- 

 lization on the edges onh', occasionally separate doubly terminated 

 prisms. Some of the specimens with polarized light are very 

 beautiful. ' -^'" 



A substance usually presenting the form of disks, -^j^ inch and 

 less in diameter, showing, with polarized light, a radiation from 

 the centre, and a change of brilliant colors as the analyzer is 

 rotated. Apparently the same material occurs in acicular cr3stals, 

 often twinned at 60° and 120", in a plumose form, and in a form 

 closely resembling a section of agate across the lasers. Some of 

 these disks appear to be strictly a radiation of acicular crystals 

 from a centre, others to be made up of three or more oval masses ; 

 sometimes the latter are separate, or joined two, three, four, or 

 six together, showing apparent twinning at 60° and 120°; these 

 oval masses, with polarized light, take each a single tint at a time. 

 This material was found also in mica from near Newtown Square, 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



Delaware Co., Pa., and from the Junction Itailroad, above Girard 

 Avenue, Fairraount Park, associated with rhombs apparently of 

 lepidomelane or biotite, and also with quartz. 



On the Bryn Maicr Gravel — Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis re- 

 marked, that since the presentation of his paper on the '' Surface 

 Geology of Philadelpliia and vicinity," he had been able to extend 

 the investigation then begun, considerably beyond the limits of 

 Philadelphia. The " Upland Terrace " has now been traced con- 

 tinuously from near Tienton, through Pucks, Philadelphia, and 

 Delaware counties, to beyond AVilmington in Delaware. As far 

 as could be judged, the clay comes up to a uniform level along 

 this terrace. It has been gratifying to find that the main charac- 

 teristics of the different deposits, recorded in the i>aper referred to, 

 are constant throughout the whole of this region. 



The principal ditliculty in the work has l)een want of topographi- 

 cal data. "While within the limits of the city, the topographical 

 map of the Water Department had been of great service, but 

 beyond these limits elevations had to be estimated from occasional 

 railroad levels. Topography is an aid in all geological investiga- 

 tions, but in the stud}- of surface geology it is a necessitv. 



It is now desired to call attention to the great development of 

 the Bryn Mawr gravel in Delaware, and to the indications of its 

 assuming an important position in the geolog}' of the Southern 

 States. In Bucks County, north of Philadelphia, the formation 

 has been recognized but scantily, but as we go south of the city 

 it increases largely in extent. Numerous hills in Delaware Co. 

 have been found to be capped by this formation, and in northern 

 Delaware it covers the gneissic hills in patches several miles long 

 and comes close to the river. 



The Upland Terrace, after crossing the Delaware State line 

 about two and a-lialf miles back from the river, gradually ap- 

 proaciies it, until near Bellevue Station, P. W. and B. K. K., its 

 base is but half a mile from the river. It forms tiie upper })ortion 

 of Wilmington, and then trends S. E. towards Baltimore, north of 

 the railroad and away from the river. In the neighborhood of 

 Wilmington the Bryn Mawr gravel lies directly upon and back of 

 the Upland Terrace, which is here about SOU feet high. It is 

 abundant to the southeast of Tallyville, Del., covering a large 

 tract of country, and it api)ears on the hills on both siiles of the 

 Brandywine in tiie neighborhood of Dupont's Pt)wder Mills. It 

 is found on the Philadelphia and Wilmington Turni)ike, two miles 

 northeast of Wilmington, and one mile from the river. In many 

 l)la(es it is five feet deep, and it seems less eroded than in Penn- 

 sylvania. It consists of sharp pieces of Mt. Holly conglomerate 

 and iron sandstone with well-rounded j)ebbK's of (luart/.ile and of 

 Potsdam sandstone, being identical with that of Chestnut llill 

 and Br\ii Mawr. 




'21S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



This formation, so abundant in Delaware, is thus proved to be 

 by no means a local one, and it is probable that it will be identified 

 with some of the formations grouped together under the name of 

 '' Southern Prift." 



The Bryn Mawr gravel has also recently been found in the 

 Montgomery County limestone valley, and there seems to be a 

 close connection between it and the surface or drift iron ores of 

 that valley. Some of these ores appear to be simply a very fer- 

 ruginous variety of the Mt. Holly conglomerate. They overlie 

 unconformabl}^ the steeply-dipping decomposed shales which hold 

 a more ancient and richer ore. 



In Bucks County there occurs a gravel different from any yet 

 described, which at first occasioned some confusion. It has proved 

 to be the result of the decomposition of the lower Triassic con- 

 glomerate, the pebbles of which, loosened from their cementing 

 material, have been scattered through the soil. These Triassic 

 pebbles are formed of gneiss, not Potsdam. Hills of red shale 

 border this graYel. 



A preliminarj- map of the Surface Geology of Southeastern 

 Pennsylvania was exhibited, and it was suggested that its publica- 

 tion would be of service to man}'^ besides geologists. 



April 28, 18t9. 



On some Enclosures in Mica. — Mr. Lewis exhibited some plates 

 of Muscovite which he had found on Shoemaker's Lane, German- 

 town, which contained microscopic crystals of peculiar shape. 

 They consisted of a dark green mica, probably Lepidomelane, 

 in minute sharp crystals thicklj- disposed throughout the 

 muscovite. These crj-stals were frequently arrow-shaped, and 

 generally much elongated. Large numbers of them were shaped 

 like a musket. They were verj- dilferent from an^- of the enclo- 

 sures in the muscovite of Pennsburj^, Del. Co., and were interesting 

 objects under the microscope. 



On Dendrites. — Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis made some obser- 

 vations upon dendrites and their mode of growth. He stated that 

 dendrites were not caused by filtration of metaliferous water, but 

 that they frequently grow upward by chemical or capillary action. 

 He described an exposure of white lower Triassic sandstone in a 

 quarry in the southern part of Norristown, where dendrites of 

 oxide of manganese were seen upon tiie surface of the rock, 

 growing from below upwards. The dendrites were apparently in 

 process of growth, and were so soft that they could be scraped 

 with a knife from the rock. The material thus obtained gave a 

 bright metallic streak on the fingers, and was shown by the l)low- 

 pipe to be hydrous oxide of manganese. It was observed that 

 while the rock above and below these dendrites was spotted with 

 minute rust-specks of manganese, the portion upon which the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



dendrites grew was pure white and free from such specks. It 

 seemed that the material of the dendrites is abstracted from the 

 rock and by some segregating force built up into tree-like forms. 

 An examination of tlieir structures showed that the dendrites were 

 (piite amorplious and that very freciuently the upper extremities 

 of their branches were thicker than the stem portion, as though 

 some concretionary or capillar}' force acted most i)owerfidly at 

 the growing points. No crystalline structure was apparent, the 

 dendrites being bounded throughout by curved lines. It looked 

 as though the}' might have grown by a succession of concentric 

 metallic shells. 



It was remarked that these dendrites were quite ditferent from 

 those in muscovite and other crystals, which, frequently derived 

 from the substance of the crystal, have been so influenced by its 

 structure as to become often pseudomorphic. It was noted that 

 there are several distinct kinds of dendrites. They may be internal, 

 as in moss agate ; or external, as in the case now described. They 

 may also be eitlier crystalline or amorphous. The crystalline 

 dendrites are subdivided into those which have been free to 

 crystallize of their own accord, and into those which have been 

 influenced by the crystalline structure of the mineral in which 

 they exist. Examples of each were cited. 



On a Jurassic Saiid. — Mr. Lewis directed attention to a fine 

 sand of considerable extent and depth, which he had found under- 

 lying the lower Cretaceous plastic clny. 1 f this clay, as is supposed, 

 is the base of the Cretaceous formation, the sand below it may be 

 of Jurassic age. There is a fine exposure of this sand near Elkton, 

 Md. From its coherence it may be regarded as a fine-grained 

 sandstone. It is either white or pale j^ellow in color, and about 

 15 feet are here exposed. Underneath the plastic claj' south of 

 Trenton, N. J., the same sand is at least 30 feet deep. It is sug- 

 gested that, in the absence of fossils to fix its age, it may possibly 

 correspond stratigraphically with the " Hastings sand." The 

 overlying cla}- contains fossils at Baltimore, which Prof. Uhler 

 identifies as AVealden. 



Upon the summit of the same hill, near Elkton, where the above- 

 described sand is exposed, " Bryn ^Nfawr gravel" occurs in abun- 

 dance. It contains " Mt. Holly conglomerate," and has the same 

 features as in Delaware and Pennsylvania. Whether or not it has 

 any connection with the plastic clay is not known. This same 

 plastic clay, of probably AVealdcn age, occurs at Turkey Hill, in 

 Bucks County, Penua. 



May 2(;. 18T9. 



Potsdam Sandstone near Kimj of Prussia. — },[]-. Theodore P. 

 Rand called attention to primal (Potsdam) sandstone rocks in the 

 bed of a valley on the farm of Sanuu'l Tyson, South Chester A"al- 

 ley Hill, near King of Prussia, Montgomery County. Pa. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



.-1 Xcir Locality for Amt'thi/sf.— 'Mr. W. W. Jefferis announced 

 that Amethysts, well ervstallized, and of a rich pnri)le color, had 

 been found this spriuii", for the lirst time, in the northern part of 

 Newlin Township, Chester County. They were brought to the 

 surface by deep i)lowing, and were supposed to be derived from 

 a vein of this mineral. 



September 22, 1819. 



A New Corundum Locality. — Mr. W. W. Jefferis remarked 

 that a vein of blue Corundum, similar to that found in North 

 Carolina, was struck, on the south side of the Serpentine Ridge, 

 in Xewlin Township, Chester County, a short time since. The 

 vein is well defined, being between walls of Culsageeite, iu large 

 plates of a yellowish green color. Over 500 lbs. of massive blue 

 corundum has been taken out within ten feet of the surface. 



The Minerals of Surry County, N. C. — Mr. H. C. Lewis commu- 

 nicated the following list of minerals which he had found near 

 Dobson, Surry Co., N. C, during a recent visit to that locality : — 



Native sulphur, galena, pyrrhotite, pyrite,chalcopyrite, hematite, 

 menaccanite, magnetite, limonite, hausmannite, psilomelane, wad, 

 hornblende, actinolite, asbestos, garnet, talc, steatite, ripidolite, 

 chlorite. 



The psilomelane occurred in a bed about 18 feet in thickness. 



The magnetite was frequently polar. Native sulphur occurred 

 in cavities in quartzite as a coarse loose powder of rounded wax- 

 like grains, and was the result of the decomposition of pyrite. 



It was also stated that rutile occurred in Alexander Co., N. C. — 

 a new locality. 



Fossil (?) Casts in Sandstone. — Dr. J. M. Cardeza exhibited 

 specimens of quartz sandstone (Potsdam?) which he had found 

 lying loose upon the soil at Dutton's Mills, Pa., in which were 

 oblong rounded casts of sandstone, about an inch in length, and 

 similar to one another in shape. It was questioned whether the}' 

 might not be fossils. 



On a Peculiar Stratification in Gneiss. — Mr. Theodore D. 

 Rand stated that while much of the porphyritic gneiss of the belt 

 running southwest from the Falls of Schuylkill at the surface was 

 in rounded boulder-like masses, which had been mistaken for trap, 

 some of it presents at the surface a thin-bedded structure witli, 

 apparently, very distinct stratification. Recently the cut of the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad through this belt, between Merion and Elm 

 Stations, about a mile from the boundary of the City of Philadel- 

 phia, has been widened, and on the south side may be seen an 

 interesting section. A mass of the gneiss, perhaps 15 feet across, 




1880.] NATLRAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHIA. 281 



has })epn cut through, and almost encirclinfr it may be seen the 

 thin-bedded variety, with its apparent stratification tangential to 

 the mass from which, by decomposition, it evidently was derived. 

 The true stratitication of this bed of frnfiss appears to be more 

 nearly horizontal and less contorted than that of any of the rocks 

 of the vicinity of Philadelphia. 



A Xew Locality for Lignite. — Mr, Henry Carvill Lewis 

 announced the discovery of lignite, or brown coal, in the lime- 

 stone valley of Montgomery C(Minty, a mile and a-half from the 

 boundary of Philadelphia. He had found it. last June, at Marble 

 Hall, close to the marble quarry, within a few feet of digw^ings 

 for iron ore. In order to ascertain its extent and geological posi- 

 tion more definitely, he had caused a shaft to be sunk 40 feet deep 

 on the pn>peity of Henry Hitner, Esq. After passing through 38 

 feet of decomposed hydromica slate, there was found a stratum 4 

 feet thick of a tough ])lack fire-clav filled with fragments of lignite. 

 These fragments, sometimes a foot or more in length, lay iu all 

 directions in the clay. They had the form of twigs and branches, 

 and, though completely turned into lignite, showed distinctly the 

 grain of the wood. The smaller pieces were generally flattened, 

 and often as soft as charcoal, but the larger ones were quite hard 

 and brittle and had the shining fracture of true coal. It burned 

 with a bright yellow tlame. Fre(iuentlv balls of pyrite occurred 

 with the lignite. 



The clay which contained it was underlaid by sand, and appeared 

 to dip south. It had an east and west strike, like that of the lime 

 stone and of the iron ores. In appearance it was similar to the 

 sub-Cretaceous plastic claj's of New Jersey, which also contained 

 lignite resembling that of Marble Hall. White kaolin and white 

 and red potters' clay occur in the vicinity and are probably of 

 similar age. They are all older than the surface deposits and 

 gravel of the valley. 



It was stated that while lignite is not uncommon iu the Triassic 

 formation, its occurrence in a Silurian limestone A^alley is of great 

 interest. Whether referred to Tertiary or Jurassic age, it brings a 

 new geological epoch into this region and revolutionizes our ieleas 

 of the age of many of the so-called '' Primal " iron ores. 



On Serpentine in Bac/^s County Mr. Lewis called attention 



to the fact that while serpentine was abundant in Delawai'e Co., it 

 had not been recorded as occurring anywhere in Bucks Co. He 

 had recently noticed an exposure of it iu that county, near the 

 village of Flushing, Bonsalem Township. A narrow dyke of hard, 

 impure serpentine here crosses the road near the Neshaminy 

 Creek. He thought that the genesis of serpentine and its relation 

 to the gneissic rocks was still uncertain. 



19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



October 27, 1879. 

 the iron ores and lignite of the montgomery co. valley. 



BY HENRY CAllVILL LEWIS. 



The discovery ol lignite in the iron ore region north of Phila- 

 delphia introduces some iioav consideiiitions in tiie study of its 

 geology, and has a direct bearing upon the age of its iron ores. 

 Lignite was found in this valley many years ago, but was supposed 

 to be Triassic, and therefore unimportant.' Before judging of the 

 connection that the occurrence of lignite in the Montgomery Co. 

 limestone valley will have with the geology of the Atlantic coast, 

 it will be important to enumerate other localities of a similar 

 nature where that mineral has been found. 



In his Geology of Vermont, Prof. p]. Hitchcock described an 

 occurrence of lignite in a, similar position at Brandon, Vt., and 

 proposed a theory which excited much attention, but whicli has 

 been rejected by many geologists. It was shown that a steeply- 

 dipping stratum of lignite lay within beds of plastic clay, kaolin 

 and iron ore, all dijjping steeply southeast. The iron ore deposit 

 was sometimes 100 feet deep, and all these beds rested against a 

 limestone which had the same steep dip. Mottled clays were 

 described as similar to those of Martha's Vineyard and the Isle of 

 Wight, and much of the formation was said to resemble a meta- 

 morphosed mica schist. The stratum of lignite was opened from 

 near the surface to a depth of 80 feet, and was used as coal. It 

 proved to be generally dicotyledonous, and to contain twigs and 

 fruits which belonged to a tropical climate, and which Professor 

 Lesquereux referred to a Tertiary epoch, probably Miocene. From 

 this discovery. Prof. Hitchcock proposed the theory' that all the 

 liraonite iron ores of the Atlantic coast in similar geological posi- 

 tions were Tertiary and of oceanic origin. On the other hand, 

 it was argued that an isolated exara])le was not sufficient to estab- 

 lish such a wide conclusion, and the lignite was regarded as locally 

 formed by having been washed into an existing cavern in the 

 limestone floor. 



The next occurrence of lignite is a very similar one at Pond 

 Bank, near Chambersburg, Pa., described in an interesting 



1 F. ProL Leidy, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1861, 77. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



paper by Prof. Lcslo}.' Here again it was found in a liinostone 

 valley close to iron ore excavations. It was at a deptli of 40 feet, 

 below strata of clay and sand. According to the superintendent 

 of the mine, it was in two strata, the lowest of which was 18 

 feet in thickness, and was separated from the np[)er bed, 4 feet thick, 

 by a stratum of sand. Below it, at a deptli of CO feet, red and 

 white plastic clay occurred. The strata were nearly horizontal. 

 It was thought that the lignite was not necessarih' connected with 

 the iron ores, but was a local deposit of late date, made in a shallow 

 pond, and that, as at Brandon, a sink-liole liad been formed in the 

 underl3'ing limestone. It was regarded as of the latest Tertiary 

 age. 



Lignite has also recentl}' been discovered by Prof. Prime, in 

 Brown's iron mine, at Ironton, Lehigh Co., Pa.- He states that 

 it occurs in a white plastic clay, but does not give the depth at 

 •which it was found. He believes that it was transported by ice 

 and water in the Glacial epoch, and refers the iron ores of the 

 valle}' to the same origin. 



The writer believes that in the light of facts now developed, 

 this theor}^ of the age of the lignite cannot be maintained. After 

 an inspection of the locality, he has found that the surface-drift 

 and boulders of that valley lie unconformably upon the forma- 

 tion containing the lignite. The lignite lies at a depth of 46 

 feet from the surface, in a tough plastic clay, which is entirely 

 free from boulders. About 30 feet of potters' clay and decom- 

 posed hydromica slate lie upon the lignitic stratum, and resting 

 upon the whole is 15 feet of drift. This surface drift, of yellow 

 brick-cla3', boulders, gravel and drift iron ore, is thus of quite 

 different character from the strata below it, and is probably de- 

 posited by glacial waters. The underl3ing formations have, 

 apparenth', in some places, a dip like that of the adjacent lime- 

 stone, and are certainly more ancient than the surface drift. 



The lignite recently' found b}- the writer in the Montgomery Co. 

 valley, and described at the last meeting of the Section, occurs 

 under conditions very similar to those above indicated. In im- 

 mediate proximity both to a limestone outcrop and to iron ore 

 diggings, it was found at a depth of 35 feet, in a plastic clay 

 ■which contains no gravel or boulders, and which is overlaid by 



■ Proc. Anier. Phil. Soc, ix, 463. 



■^ Keport DD., '2d Geolog. Survey of Pa., p. 70. 




284 



rUOCEEPINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



chiy niul decomposed h\ dromiea slate. A surface drift, containing 

 iron ore, gravel, and occasional boulders, lies nnconformably upon 

 the -whole fornuition. The section here presented was made in a 

 shaft which the writer was allowed to have sunk within a few feet 

 of Mr. Hitner's marble quarry. Marble Hall, Montgomery Count}'. 



~ZL'::z^ " Top dirt," yellow, impure. 



Soft white decomposed h3^dromica slate or im- 

 pure " kaolin," containing occasional broken 

 seams of sharp quartzite, but no pebbles. 



Coarse white sand and rounded pebbles ; appar- 

 ently a decomposed sandstone. 

 Tough mottled red claj^. 



Blue plastic clay. 



Lignite in a very tough, dark clay. 



Coarse yellow sand, with fragments of stony 

 iron ore and with pebbles. 



The lignite bed contains occasional streaks of fine gray sand, 

 and is nnderlaid by a coarser sand. So far as could be judged 

 from the very limited exposure, it dipped south, at an angle of 

 about .30° ; becoming thicker as it dipped. The lignite lies in 

 fragments in the clay, and consists of twigs and branches of land 

 plants, apparently all dicotyledonous. The lignite frequently 

 shows a brilliant black lustre when transversely fractured. The 

 small fragments ^re more like charcoal, and are often in the form 

 of flattened twigs. Some of these appear to be partially rounded 

 by attrition. No shells or marine fossils occur. Pyrite frequently 

 encrusts the lignite or forms nodules, and when exposed to the 

 air decomposes into ferrous sulphate. 



At this same locality', lignite has been taken from three other 

 shafts in addition to the one just described. Two of these are 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



close to the Marble Quarry, but the third is about 400 feet east of 

 these, behind the barn of Mr. 11. S. Hitner, who says that it was 

 found man}' feet below the surface. These facts indicate an east 

 and west strike to the lignitic strata, and an extent of 400 feet in 

 length and 40 feet in breadth. Shafts 100 feet north of tliese 

 struck iron ore, but no lignite. They exhibited the following 

 succession of strata: — (1) "Top dirt;" (2) Decomposed h^dro- 

 mica slate; (3) White clay; (4) Yellow sand ; (.5) Iron ore. 



Recent explorations have shown that Marble Hall is not the 

 only locality where lignite is found, but that it occurs in a number 

 of other places in the same valley. About a mile and three- 

 quarters west of Marble Hall it was formerly found in a field on 

 the Ridge Road, opposite a house once owned by W. Potts. It 

 was at a depth of about 40 feet. Red and white potters' cla}-, 

 white kaolin and iron ore are found close to the opening. The 

 lignite at this place is hard, and is said to burn well. Another 

 locality' is on the farm of W. Wills, south of Plymouth Creek, 

 about one mile from Conshohocken. Considerable quantities of 

 lignite have been here exhumed, the pieces being often a foot in 

 length. This shaft was opened about thirty years ago, and was 

 probably the locality referred to b}' Dr. Leidy. Lignite has also 

 been found in a number of iron ore pits south of here and east of 

 Conshohocken. It is said always to occur in tire-clay. 



The above localities are all included in a strip of country about two 

 and a-half miles long and a quarter of a mile broad, lying in nearly an 

 eii^t and west direction. The lignite appears to form two distinct, 

 na. row lines of outcrop with a definite E. and W. or E. X. E. and 

 W. S. W. strike, — thus conforming with the limestone. While its 

 dip has not been actually established, the decomposed slates and 

 sandstones of apparently similar age have been observed to dip 

 40= S. 20° W. 



From these facts it would appear that the lignite is not a mere 

 local wash or accidental deposit, but that it is part of a stratified 

 and distinct formation, having a trend like that of the limestone, 

 and of considerable extent ; and when the strata in the Mont- 

 gomery County Yallc}' are compared with those in other parts of 

 the country, it will be seen that we have here to deal with a forma- 

 tion which, closely connected with the linionite iron ores of the 

 great limestone valleys, and having remarka))Iy similar charaeters 

 throughout, may prove an important feature in .Vmerican geology. 



In entering upon a consideration of the av/fof tlie lignite, it will 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



be desirablo biiolly to sketch the geology, and especially the 

 surface oet)logy of the valley in which it occurs. 



The underlying rock is an altered lower Silurian limestone, the 

 "Auroral " of Rogers, Avhich in the soiithern part of the valley is 

 crystalline marble and in the northern i)art is a sandy magnesian 

 limestone. It has an E. and W. strike and a steep south dip, and 

 is supposed to have an inverted synclinal structure. The lime- 

 stone rises to the surface in a series of parallel ridges, and between 

 these lie the iron ores and the lignitic strata. Bounding tlie valley 

 are hills of altered shale of probably Potsdam age. Beyond this 

 line of hills to the north, are the Triassic red shales and sand- 

 stones, while to the south is the Philadelphia gneissic district. 

 In man}' jilaces the North Valley Hill has been eroded away and 

 Triassic strata lie directly upon the limestone. 



The iron ores of this region probably belong to four difierent 

 geological ages, and may therefore be divided into four classes. 



1. Gneissic Ore. This ore, never found in the valley, occurs in 

 the gneissic rocks of Chester County north of the Chester Vallej^, 

 and has been formed in place from the altered gneiss. It dips 

 with the gneiss, and is generally accompanied by scales of graphite. 

 Prof. Rogers^ supposed that this ore belonged to isolated patches 

 of Triassic red sandstone. The writer, however, has not been able 

 to confirm his sections, nor to show the presence of any more 

 recent formation than the gneiss. 



2. Primal Ore, The hj'dromica slates which lie between the 

 Potsdam sandstone and the limestone liberate, when decomposed, 

 a rich limonite ore which is largely mined in portions of the 

 valley. Although in very irregular beds, a steep dip can be re- 

 cognized. It is perhaps derived from the decomposition of p}- rite. 

 This is probably the ore mined at Edge Hill. 



.3. Tertiary Ore. This ore, associated with which are the de- 

 posits of lignite, plastic clay, kaolin, fire-sand, etc., has been 

 hiljherto confounded either with the Primal ore or with the Drift 

 ore of the valle3\ In that part of the valley under discussion 

 there are three distinct lines of outcrop of this ore, having nearly 

 an E. and W. trend. A ridge of limestone separates two of these 

 lines. The ore lies, sometimes at a great depth, below a re-stratified 

 decomposed hj-dromica slate. This latter formation is almost 

 identical in appearance with the decomposed Primal slate in place 



' Geol. ofPenna., I, 87. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lll LADELPIII A. 287 



at the edges of the valley, and has therefore been mistaken for it. 

 The discovery of lignite Ik'Iow it proves its re-stratilieation in a 

 hiter age. In many places .shafts have been sunl< over 1(J0 feet 

 without coming to the limestone. The ore, originall}' derived 

 either from the limestone or from the primal slates, appears to lie 

 below the lignitic strata. 



4. Drift Ore. Resting often iinconformabl}' upon these last, and 

 capping the elevations throughout the valley, is a drift deposit of 

 gravel and boulders containing a workable iron ore. The compo- 

 sition of this drift is most interesting. Its boulders, almost with- 

 out exception, are composed of a loose-grained Potsdam sand- 

 stone, — a formation not now existing either on the Xorth or South 

 Valley Hill at this place, and found onl}' in a limited exposure at 

 the eastern end of the valley. The Scolithus linearis is frequently 

 found in these boulders. Moreover, notwithstanding the large 

 extent of Triassic red shale and sandstone immediately to the 

 north of the valley, and the occurrence of that rock resting often 

 directly upon the limestone, not a trace nor a fragment of Triassic 

 rocks have been found in this drift. 



The evidence is here strong that this drift has not been caused 

 by any flood from the north in a modern age. Additional evidence 

 bearing upon the same point is found in the fact that the Triassic 

 region north of here is absolutely free from drift of any kind. A 

 careful study by the writer of much of that region has shown that 

 not a single drifted pel)ble is there found. The soil is formed 

 from the rocks below it, and such clays as occur are bog clays of 

 local origin and recent age. That the pebbles of the valley drift 

 have not been derived by weathering from the neighboring lower 

 Triassic conglomerate, Which holds often large pebbles, is shown 

 by the fact that such pebbles ai'e here formed entirely of gneiss 

 or gneissic quartzite, and never of Potsdam, and therefore are 

 quite different from those in the valley. 



The drift ore and gravel does not lie in hollows, as though 

 locally washed, but is found in patches upon the elevated portions 

 of the valley, as though it were the remnant of a once continuous 

 deposit. 



The facts above enumerated suggest a possible origin at an age 

 when clitfs of Potsdam sandstone, since eroded away, stood as a 

 high barrier between the limestont' valh'v and the Triassie rocks 

 north of it. Such a barrier would ellVctually prevent Triassic 

 fragments from mixing with the drift of the v;dley. and would, 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(luring its degradation, offer the matorial for the pebbles and 

 boulders of that dritt. In Triassic times some such barrier may 

 have formed the southern shore of the Triassic waters. It has 

 been interesting to discover that most of the pebbles belonging to 

 the sub-Cretaceous plastic clays of the Delaware are formed of 

 Potsdam sandstone, and that therefore during lower Cretaceous 

 times also, some such mountain of Potsdam must have ofiered 

 itself to eroding agencies. Again, it is found that Tertiary gravels, 

 both in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, contain an abundance of 

 Potsdam pebbles. The hyi^othesis that the materials for the sub- 

 Cretaceous plastic clays and tlie Tertiarj"^ gravels were furnished by 

 hills now sunk beneath the Atlantic Ocean ^ is not sustained by 

 what is known of the configuration of the sea-bottom. The theory 

 now offered is supported b\- numerous facts concerning the power 

 of erosion, which geological considerations in other fields have 

 presented. 



In a former paper on "The Surface Geology of Philadelphia and 

 vicinity," the writer showed that, in addition to the cla^s, four 

 separate gravels of different ages can be distinguished in that 

 region. These are (1) "The River Gravel," the newest of all the 

 gravels; (2) "The Philadelphia Eed Gravel," of Champlain age; 

 (3j '' The Fossiliferous Gravel," recently proved by the writer to 

 be of upper Tertiary, perhaps Pliocene age, and now called the 

 " Glassboro Gravel ; " (4) " The Bryn Mawr Gravel," the oldest 

 of the gravels, also oceanic, aud conjectured to be of upper 

 Miocene age. This last gravel, and this only, agrees in its char-, 

 acters with the valley drift now under consideration. In the 

 absence of all Triassic fragments, in the presence of Potsdam 

 boulders, and in the amount of erosion, these two gravels are iden- 

 tical, and it seems probable that the " Drift Iron Ore " of the one 

 is only a very ferruginous variety of the "Mt. Holly Conglom- 

 erate" of the other. This being the case, we have here a formation 

 which, notwithstanding its boulders, suggestive of floating ice, ap- 

 pears to be older than an oceanic Pliocene gravel. There is per- 

 haps no good reason why a glacier might not have existed in 

 upper Tertiary times, boulders formed by which may still be 

 found. However this may be, it appears that there are strong 

 grounds for assigning an upper Tertiary age to the drift ore and 

 gravel of the Montgomer}^ County Valley. 



Returning, finally, to the lignite and associated strata, shown to 



1 Report on Clay Deposits of N. J., 1878, pp. 30.31. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 289 



be older tliau the foimution just described, and shown by its own 

 characters to bear no trace oi" <,dacial auencies, we may conjecture, 

 without any reference to the phints of tlie lignite, a middle or lower 

 Tertiary age. From the steep dip of the beds, — a fact diflicult to ex- 

 plain,— and from the great resemblance of the plastic clays t<j those in 

 New Jersey, on the Delaware, the writer at lirst supposetl them to 

 be of Wealden age. Some facts in connection with a gravel found 

 in Virginia and other Southern States, which, in both appearance 

 and position is very similar to the Bryn Mawr gravel, were at first 

 thought to indicate a Jurassic age. But after a comparison with 

 the other lignite localities, and especiall}' with that at Brandon, 

 where the fossils were shown to be of Tertiary age, this view can 

 hardly be sustained. The absence of shells or marine plants indi- 

 cates a period of inland waters, and the plants at Brandon belong 

 to a tropical climate. 



It is now suggested that the period of the lignite ma}' corre- 

 spond most closely with that called b}' European geologists the 

 Oligocene. Since, in the present state of our knowledge, it is obvl- 

 ousl}' unsafe to make the age of these lignite deposits contempora- 

 neous with an^' exact geological epoch, and as there is a possibility 

 of their belonging to some period not recognized elsewhere, it will 

 probably be wiser for the present to group them together under 

 the name of The Brandon Period. As more facts develop and 

 wider comparisons can be made, more certain conclusions will be 

 possible ; and it must be understood that the theories here proposed 

 are brought forward only as those which now appear best to ex- 

 plain the facts observed. 



rostscript. — Since the presentation of the above paper, the writer 

 has been in correspondence with Prof. N. A. Biltikov, of Augusta, 

 Georgia, who has recently discovered lignite in that vicinity. The 

 locality, called "Read's Brown Coal Mine,'' is in Richmond Count}-, 

 two and a-lialf miles from Berzelia, and sixteen mih'S from Au- 

 gusta. It is described as lying back of the outcrops of gneiss and 

 limestone, and is apparently' in a very similar geological position 

 to the Pennsylvania locality. Iron ore, plastic clay, kaolin, and 

 decomposed sandstone occur with the lignite. As in Pennsylvania, 

 the lignite was found in a plastic clay beneath 25 feet of a decom- 

 posed sandstone. Four strata of lignite, separated by layers of 

 shale and clay, were found at a dei)th of from 30 to 45 feet from 

 the surface. A series of coarse and fine sands and clays under- 

 laid these deposits and were })enetrated to a depth of 95 feet. 




290 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1880. 



Three dirterent shafts were sunk, the extremes being 600 feet apart, 

 in all of which lignite Avas founcl. The shaft in which the following 

 section was made is about 150 feet from an outcrop of hornstone 

 and quartzite, and 300 feet from a creek which lies 200 feet 

 below it. 



Mottled clay. 



Decomposed sandstone. 



Crust of iron sandstone and spathic iron. 



\MffiHSIStk 



m--s^- 





Decomposed sandstone 



with thin layers of clay. 



Nodules of pyrite. 

 Liji^nite. 

 Shale and clay. 

 Lignite. 



Shale and clay. 

 Lignite. 

 Shale and clay. 



Lignite. 



Light-colored shale 

 with fossil plants. 



Dark-colored (bituminous) shale. 



White clay with streaks 

 of rose-color, etc. 



Sandy cUy. 



Ferruginous coarse sand with nodules of clay iron-stone, 

 4 inches to 2^ feet in diameter with ochre, clay, etc., 

 and quartz pebbles sometimes 3 inches in diameter. 



Light-colored shale. 

 Yellowish sand. 



Sandy clay. 



White, very fine micaceous sand 

 with clay. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



The second stratum of lignite is the best, and contains fragments 

 of lignite sometimes three feet long. A number of fossil plants have 

 been found in this and other la^-ers. Some specimens were im- 

 bedded in a la^^er of brown sandstone. The fossils ai)pear to be 

 fragments of trees, grasses and other land plants, none of whieh, 

 however, were suflicientl}^ l)erfect to be determined. No shells 

 were found. 



The whole section at Berzelia is remarkably similar to those at 

 Brandon, Cliambersburg, Ironton and Marble Hall, and with them 

 indicates the existence of a great inland fresh water Tertiary for- 

 mation in Eastern America, during the Brandon Period, once 

 fifty miles broad and nearly a thousand miles long. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



An Enclosure in Quartz. — Mr. H. C. Lewis exhibited a crystal of 

 quartz from Herkimer Count}', N. Y., in which, hanging- from a 

 bubble which moved in a cavity containing liquid, was a tuft of 

 minute at'ieuhir crystals of a pure wliite color. A microscopical 

 examination liad tailed to identify them with an}^ known substance. 

 The crystals Avere similar to tliose of many organic salts. It was 

 conjectured that they had crystallizi'd out from the licpiid. Under 

 a power of To they looked like tufts of white wool, and it was 

 suggested that if future investigation failed to refer them to a 

 known mineral species, it might be convenient to give them the 

 name EriUte (from i'/'£oy, avooI). 



In other cavities in the same crystal there was an amorphous 

 3-ellowish-brown waxy substance of unknown composition. 



Menaccanite and Talc from Maryland — Mr. Wm. W. Jefferis 

 remarked that in Harford County, Md., near the village of Dublin, 

 there is a vein of green foliated Talc in the serpentine, Avhich has 

 been opened about 6 feet in length. It has furnished cleavage 

 foliated specimens over a foot in extent. The same vein contains 

 Menaccanite in tabular crystals, well crystallized. Yellow beryl 

 has also been found there, showing all three in the same specimen. 



Sunstone in Lahradorite. — Mr. Jefferis stated that on examin- 

 ing a specimen of Labradorite in his possession, from the coast of 

 Labi'ador, he found that in addition to the usual play of colors 

 (blue and green), by turning it in another direction it showed 

 innumerable crystals of gothite, making it a beautiful sunstone, 

 Avhich, he believed, was an unusual thing, and which he had not 

 found mentioned in the books. 



On a Probable Pseudoniorphiani of Gummite and Uranotile after 

 Uraninite. — Dr. A. E. Foote remarked that among a number of 

 specimens of gummite and uranotile, that he had recentl}' received 

 from Mitchell Co., N. C, he noticed some which were of remark- 

 abh' regular form. The edges were slightly rounded, but they 

 were apparently simple prisms belonging to the triclinic system. 

 On breaking these open he found a solid core of uraninite, sur- 

 rounded by a layer of gummite, and this, in turn, surrounded by 

 a lajer of uranotile. Although crystals of uraninite have never 

 been observed, he ventured to suggest that this is plainly a case 

 of pseudomorphism after uraninite. He hoped hereafter to obtain 

 crystals whose angles can be accurately measured. 



He had observed at least twenty specimens having evidently the 

 same crystalline form, and all plainly pseudomorphs after some 

 pre-existing crystal. The majority of those that were broken open 

 showed the alteration of uraninite into gummite, and of gummite 

 into uranotile ; though in a few the uraninite had been changed, 

 and the crystal showed simi)ly gummite and uranotile. 




1880.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



293 



November 24, 1870. 



ON A NEW FXTCOIDAL PLANT FROM THE TRIAS. 



KY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS. 



The fossil described here as Palseophycna UmaciformU, sp. nov., 

 is from a verj' beautiful and well-defined specimen, casts of which 

 stand out in relief upon a slab of Triassic sandstone. It was 

 found by the writer near Milford, New Jerse}', in upper Triassic 

 strata. Its general facies is like that of some species of Palseo- 

 phycus and AHfropJn/cu.'^ of the Carboniferous age, and of Butho- 

 trephis of the Clinton group, and it belongs to the same order of 

 plants — that of the fucoid or marine algae. The general, rather 

 than generic name of Palaeophycus, which is quite as indefinite as 

 that of Fucoides, is well applicable to it. 



The frond is cylindrical and jointed. The ramuli, or short 

 branches of the frond are flesh}', tuV)ular, elongated bodies of about 

 an inch in length. They are spindle-shaped, attenuate, and more 



or less curved at both ends. 

 The}' are very frequentl}' ag- 

 gregated in bunches of three 

 or more, radiating from a com- 

 mon point of growth, and are 

 generall}- detached from the 

 main frond. The form of 

 these bodies is characteristic 

 of the plant, being distinctly- 

 .^nnil-ifliapied ; hence its spe- 

 cific name, " limaciformis.'^ 

 At the locality where it 

 was found there also occur 

 specimens of ripple-ma iked 

 sandstone, also of rain-iaints 

 and mud-cracks. These show 

 the physical conditions under 

 which the plant grew — that 

 of mudflats in shallow water 

 frequently left exposed to 

 sun and rain. The rain-prints 

 have been compared with 



\ 



# 



Nat. Size. 

 PaltBophycus limaciformit Lewis, sp. nov. 




'204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



modern rainprints made in mud, and their great similarity noticed. 

 One specimon of a fucoid found here has apparently been so con- 

 fused and distorted b}' tlie beating of a heavy rain-storm that its 

 structure can scarcely be recognized. 



Fuc'oids of somewhat similar appearance have been described 

 from more ancient geological horizons, but not, so far as can be 

 learned, from the Trias. The occurrence of a plant which has the 

 characters of marine alga.' in a formation supposed to have been 

 deposited by fresh water is interesting. 



Postscript. — Since the above paper was presented, a photograph 

 of this fossil has been sent to Mr. Leo Lesquereux, the distin- 

 guished paleobotanist, who, in a letter to the writer, says : " Your 

 plate represents what I consider a new species of Palaeophycus, 

 whose analogy is with P. (species undetermined) Hall, Paleont. 

 of N. Y., vol. i, PI. 70 (Hudson River group); also distantlj^ 

 related to Fucoides aiiriformis and especially F. heteroj^hyllus, 

 same author, 1. c, ii, PI. .3, figs. 3, 4. You may also find a kind 

 of analogy to what Hall considers and figures as roots or also as 

 stems of some marine plants, same vol., PI. 8, figs. 4, 5, and pi. 9, 

 fig. 4, and also pi. 10, figs. 5, 7 (all Clinton plants). The type is 

 evidently old, rather Devonian, even upper Silurian. European 

 authors have nothing like this from the Trias, Jurassic, Cretaceous 

 or Eocene." 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



The Northern Belt of Serpentine in Radnor Township. — Mr. 

 Rand made the following communication. 



Sometime ago, in a communication to the Academy', (Proc. Ac. 

 N. S., 1878, 402) I described a belt of serpentine in the valley of 

 the Gulf Creek, Radnor Township, Delaware Co., Pa. Recently a 

 trench for water pipe on the property of Judge Hare has enal)led 

 me to procure specimens illustrating a section across the bed and 

 on both sides of it, which are presented herewith. The section is 

 on a line nearly N. 75° W. The belt is {)roba])ly not far from N. 

 7()0_73° E.^ or aliout two-thirds that of the section, ])Ut this is not 

 certain. While deductions from these few specimens woidd not 

 be safe, j^et the strong resemblance between the decomposed 

 gneiss of the easternmost exposure and the clearly magnesian 

 rocks 40 feet distant, points more to an alteration in place than to 

 a distinct bed. 



Garnet mistaken for Corundum. — Dr. J. M. Cardeza called 

 attention to a garnet rock at Chelsea, Delaware Co., Pa., which is 

 quarried and used as corundum. 




JOG PROCEEDTNQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



THE TRENTON GRAVEL AND ITS RELATION TO THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN. 

 BY HENRY CAKVILL LEWIS. 



In the course of an investigation of the Surface Geology of 

 Southeastern Pennsylvania, some facts have been develoji>ed in 

 connection with one of the gravels, which, bearing directly upon 

 the Antiquity of Man in America, become of great interest. 

 Among the many scientitic problems now attracting attention, 

 none perhaps holds a more prominent position than that of the 

 Antiquity' of Man. It is a subject which, notwithstanding the 

 numerous facts gathered and the bulk of literature published, must 

 be regarded as still in an uudecided condition. 



As the Delaware is in mau}^ respects a tjqoical river, and as 

 therefore deductions made here will hold good for the valleys of 

 many other rivers of the Atlantic coast, it is thought that a record 

 of the investigation will be of more than mere local interest. The 

 subject will be approached from a purely geological standpoint. 

 The 'main difficulty in inquiries of this kind has been the absence 

 of exact geological data. Hasty conclusions have been drawn 

 from an inspection of relics found in a gravel, which a more 

 accurate knowledge of the age of that gravel would not have 

 sustained. 



The writer has shown in former papers ' that the gravels of the 

 Delaware Valley belong to several distinct ages ; and if therefore 

 at any place the remains of man are shown to occur, it will be all 

 important to know to which of these gravels they should be 

 referred. 



The surface formations of Southeastern Pennsylvania may be 

 divided into five clays and four gravels. The following is believed 

 to be the succession in which the}' occur, beginning at the 

 oldest: (1) Jurasso-Cretaceous plastic clay; (2) Tertiary cla3's, 

 (" Brandon Period ") ; (3) Bryn Mawr gravel, (upper Tertiary); (4) 

 Branchtown clay; (5) Glassboro gravel, (Pliocene); (G) Phila- 

 delphia red gravel, (Champlain) ; (7) Philadelphia brick-clay, 

 (Champlain) ; (8) Trenton gravel, (" Eskimo period "j ; (9) Recent 

 alluvium. Of clays, the oldest is the Jurasso-Cretaccoiis plastic 

 cla}^ exposed at Turkey Hill, Bucks Co. A similar plastic cla^^, 



' "The Surface Geology of Phila. and vicinity." Proc. Min. and Geol. 

 Section, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., Nov. 1878. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. '297 



whicli. however, may 1)0 of later age, has been passed through by 

 artesian wells in the southern part of Philadelphia. The next 

 oldest clay appears to be the potters' clay of the Montgomery Co. 

 limestone valley, which, containing sometimes lignite, and overlaid 

 by kaolin, decomposed hydromica slate, etc., belongs with its asso- 

 ciated limonite ores, to an inland Tertiary- formation, the " Bran- 

 don Period," possibly of Oligocene age.' A third clay, the 

 " Branchtown cla}-," found at high elevations in a few places in 

 the gneissic region, containing occasional boulders, was made at a 

 period of general submergence and appears to be of a late Tertiary 

 age. The " Philadelphia brick-clay " of more recent formation, 

 of large extent, and with numerous boulders, is confined to the 

 river valley. This clay, deposited at the close of the Glacial period 

 bj' the waters resulting from the melting of the great Northern 

 Glacier, rests against the rocky " upland terrace'' at a height of 

 about 150 feet above the present river. The fifth and newest 

 clay is the recent bog cla^- or mud in the flood-plain of the 

 river, still in process of formation. 



The gravels are distinguished from one another both by their 

 composition and b}- their relative hj'psometrical positions. The 

 " Bryn Mawr gravel" — the oldest gravel of consequence in this 

 region — is readily distinguished from others b}' the peculiar mate- 

 rials composing it, and is also known by being found at high 

 elevations (400 feet), in often isolated patches, capping the gneissic 

 hills. It is characterized by absence of fossiliferous or Triassic 

 pebbles and by the presence of an iron conglomerate, and is ol 

 oceanic origin, and probabl}' upper Tertiary age.^ A similar gravel 

 occurs on the heights of Georgetown, D. C. The next oldest 

 gravel, also oceanic, and which here occurs at lower elevations 

 than the last, the writer called in a former paper " The Fossilifer- 

 ous Gravel." It frequently contains pebbles formed of Niagara 

 limestone and other fossiliferous rocks, and has been found abun- 

 dantly in New Jersey as well as in Pennsylvania. It is well 

 exposed in the railroad cut at Kidle}- Park, Del. Co. It is the 

 yellow gravel which caps the watershed between the Atlantic 

 and the Delaware at a height of nearly 200 feet, and is now named 

 for distinction " The Glassboro gravel." Its pebbles are frequently 



' V. "The Iron Ores and Lignite of the Montgomery Co. Valley," by 

 the writer. Oct., 1879. 



'F. "On the Bryn Mawr Gravel," by the writer, Mar., 1879. 

 20 




'29s PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



weatlier-worn and eaten b3' age, and have thus a much more ancient 

 appearance than the smooth, fresh-looking pebbles of later gravels. 

 It contains no boulders of consequence and is belieA'ed to be of 

 Pliocene age. 



Lying at a lower level, within the Glassboro gravel, and formed 

 of a mixture of its pebbles with others brought down the Dela- 

 ware vallej^, is a third gravel — the " Philadelphia red gravel." 

 This, like its overlying brick-clay, is confined to the river valley. 

 It is distinctly stratified ; it contains numerous fragments of 

 Triassic red shale and of gneiss, and smooth boulders of Silurian 

 rocks ; it shows flow and plunge structure and wave action on a 

 large scale ; and like the older gravels, it rests upon a decomposed 

 gneiss, which is sometimes interstratified with its lower la3'^ers. 

 There are numerous exposures near the University of Pennsjd- 

 vania. The writer has identified it on the Potomac and other 

 rivers, and it appears to belong to the age of the melting glacier — 

 the Champlain epoch. 



The last and newest of all the gravels is one which, at Philadel- 

 phia, seemed to be of little importance. It lies close along 

 the river, and rising a few feet above it, extends but a short dis- 

 tance back from the river bank. It covers the flat ground of 

 Camden and the lower part of Philadelphia, and forms islands in 

 the river. It was called The River gravel- and sand. It is this 

 alluvial gravel, the latest, except the recent mud-flats, of all the 

 surface formations, which is the subject of the present paper, and 

 which, from its great development farther up the river, is now 

 named The Trenton Gravel. It is in this gravel, and in this 

 gravel only, that traces of man have been found. 



The Trenton Gravel at Philadelphia is composed principally of 

 a sharp micaceoua sand, which, when below water-level, becomes 

 a *• quicksand." Gravel lies below the sand. Unlike all the other 

 gravels, it contains but few pebbles of white quartz, and is of a 

 dark gray color. Its pebbles are made exclusively of the rocks 

 forming the upper valley of the river. Their shape is also very 

 characteristic. The pebbles of the older gravels are oval or egg- 

 shaped, but these are for the most part flat. This flat shape is 

 characteristic of all true river gravels. At several places along 

 the Delaware, gold has been obtained from this gravel. The 

 absence of clay in any of its layers indicates the action of swiftly- 

 running water. Data obtained from artesian wells have shown 




1880.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



tliat this formation has a depth on Delaware Avenue, Philadelpliia, 

 of about 50 feet, and that it extends up to about Third and Market 

 Streets, On Smith's Island and on the bar in the river opix>site 

 ('Ooper's Point, it is 100 feet deep, l^ing upon rock. It therefore 

 iinderlies the river, filling up its ancient channel. On Richmond 

 Street some A'ery large boulders are seen lying upon the sand. 



On tracing the Trenton gravel up the river, it is found to be 

 confined to its immediate vicinity, and that, from Philadelphia to 

 the Nesharainy Creek, its boundary is generally between the line 

 of the Penusylvania Railroad and the Delaware. From this point 

 the bounding terrace trends directly towards Morrisville and 

 away from the present river. Thus, at Bristol, the gravel and its 

 overlying sand extends two miles back from the river, and is 

 bounded by a well-marked hill, upon which lie the older gravel 

 and brick-clay of Champlain age. These and the Tertiary gravels 

 extend nearly seven miles inland. At Tullytown the Trenton 

 gravel extends two and a-half miles back, and at the canal shows 

 the following succession of strata : (1) sand}- loam, 1 foot ; (2) fine 

 gray ''moulding-sand," 2^ feet; (3) sharp "bar sand,'' 1 foot; (4) 

 clean gray river gravel of unknown depth. In other openings 

 near here the gravel is so full of boulders that these are dug in 

 large quantities and sent to Philadelphia for " cobble-stones." 

 Near Wheatsheaf Station, close to the railroad, an opening which 

 has exposed a section of the Trenton gravel nearly half a mile in 

 length, exhibits well the general features of the formation. The 

 ])ebbles, of characteristic shape and color, are made of gray Triassic 

 argillite, slate, red shale, sandstone, conglomerate, and various 

 other rocks found farther up the valley, while large and often 

 sharp boulders of red shale and other materials frequentlv occur. 

 The whole formation has a very fresh appearance when compared 

 with older gravels. Near Turkey Hill a large smooth boulder, 

 five feet in diameter, lies upon the sand. 



At Morrisville the naiTOwer portion of the vallry begins, and 

 from here up, the river flows on a rocky bottom, and the gravel is 

 shallow and is confined to the immediate vicinity of the river. 

 The older gravels of oceanic origin continue across New Jersey 

 and do not appear above Yardleyville. The Pliiladelphi.i red 

 gravel is no more seen, but the brick clay with its boulders oeca- 

 sionall}- appears part way up the steep hills enclosing the valley, 

 and is abundant in the side valleys formed by tributary streams. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Above Yardleyville, therefore, we have to deal with but two sur- 

 face formations, — the boulder-bearing brick cla}', often much 

 eroded, and the Trenton gravel, confined to tlie bottom of the 

 valley and showing but little erosion. It will be well to bear in 

 mind the distinction between these two formations, — the one of 

 glacial, the other of post-glacial age. The writer has traced them 

 as far up as the Water Gap, past the great terminal moraine into 

 i;laciated regions. It is interesting to note that while the modified 

 moraine material close to the river at Belvidere is in some points 

 similar to the Trenton gravel, and is the source of part of that for- 

 mation, the moraine on the Lehigh River at Stemton and at other 

 inland localities contains pebbles and boulders very similar to 

 those of the Philadelphia brick-clay. 



Throughout the whole course of the Trenton gravel it is observed 

 that it lies within a channel previously excavated down to the 

 rock through the boulder-bearing brick clay and its red gravel, 

 which, as shown in a former paper, belong to the Champlain epoch. 

 The Trenton gravel is therefore, later than the Glacial and Cham- 

 plain epochs ; and this is a fact which, when considered in connec- 

 tion with the human relics found in this gravel and the consequent 

 antiquit}" of man, it will be most important to remember. 



Having now sketched the character and position of the Trenton 

 gravel along the Delaware valley, we are prepared to examine the 

 formation as exposed at the locality whose name we have chosen 

 to distinguish it. 



Trenton is in a position where naturally the largest amount of a 

 river gravel would be deposited, and where its best exposures 

 would be exhibited. It is at the point where a long, narrow vallej^ 

 with precipitous banks and continuous downward slope, opens out 

 into a wide alluvial plaik at a lower level. It is here that the 

 rocky floor of the river suddenly descends to ocean level and even 

 sinks below it, forming the limit of tidewater. Thus any drift 

 material which the flooded river swept down its channel would 

 here, upon meeting tidewater, be in great part deposited. Lai'ge 

 boulders which had been rolled down the inclined floor of the 

 upper valley would here stop in their course, and all be heaped up 

 with the coarser gravel by the more slowl}' flowing water except 

 such few as cakes of floating ice could carry ocean ward. On the 

 other hand the finer gravel and sand would be deposited farther 

 down the river. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



This is precise!}- what occurs at Treuton. The material, which 

 ut Philadelphia is generally- fine, gi-ows coarser as the river is 

 ascended, until at Trenton we find often immense Vjoulders im- 

 bedded at all angles in the gravel. Moreover, the river has here 

 cut entirely through the gravel down to the rock, exposing at 

 one place a cliff of gravel 50 feet high. x\.t Philadelphia, on the 

 other hand, as we have seen, the river still flows on the top of the 

 gravel. This fact ma}' also be accounted for. Having heaped up a 

 mass of detritus in the old river channel as an obstruction 

 at the mouth of the gorge, the river, so soon as its volume dimin- 

 ished, would immediatel}' begin wearing awa}- a new channel for 

 itself down to ocean level. This would be readily accomplished 

 through the loose material, and would be stopped only when 

 rock was reached. On the other hand, that gravel which had 

 been deposited at places fai'ther down the river where its bottom 

 was below ocean level, would remain un-eroded or nearly so. When 

 the river had attained the level of the ocean there would be no 

 occasion to cut a deep channel, and it would therefore flow on top 

 of the gravel which it had deposited. It is necessary that this 

 point should be understood, as other geologists have brought for- 

 ward various theories to explain the high bank of gravel at Tren- 

 ton. The fact of the river having cut through the gravel at 

 Trenton, while at Philadelphia it flows upon it, is due to the con- 

 figuration of the rock floor of the river, which at Trenton rises 

 above ocean level, and at Philadelphia lies nearly 100 feet below it. 



In addition to the exposure upon the river bank, w-here the 

 whole depth of the formation is seen, the long railroad cuts 

 made by the Pennsylvania R. R. at Trenton, aflford excellent 

 sections of the gravel. It exhibits the distinctive characteristics 

 of a true river deposit, and is very different from the gravels which 

 are found at higher levels. It contains no cla}- ; its pebbles are 

 made of the rocks of the river bed and are flattened, and the strati- 

 fication of the whole deposit is well seen in the alternations of 

 sand and gravel. It extends several miles back from the present 

 river, covering the low ground along the Assunpink Creek, and 

 indicating the existence here of a former bav or arm of the Dela- 

 ware. This bay was shaped somewhat like a horseshoe, which had 

 one extremity in Trenton at the hill above the canal, and which 

 washed the base of the hill north of the Assun})ink Creek, and, 

 extending about three miles back from Trenton, and sweeping 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18^0. 



around the " Bear Swamp,'' had its other extremity near the 

 house of Dr. C. C. Abbott, below Chambersburaj. This village was 

 under water. Another bay extended up the valley of Crosswicks 

 Creek. Boulders of Champlain age lie upon the Tertiary gravels 

 which form the ancient bank. 



From the extent of the Trenton gravel in this vicinity, state- 

 ments have been published that it covered the whole southern part 

 of the state, and that at the time of its deposition the Delaware 

 River emptied into the ocean at Trenton. It is evident that the 

 distinction between the very different gravels of this region has 

 not been perceived. Careful examination will show the great dis- 

 similaritj'' between the Trenton gravel and such gravels as occur 

 at Princeton Junction and interior New Jersey', which are in 

 great part of Pliocene age, and will prove that it is confined to 

 the ancient river bed. 



The presence of very large boulders on the river bank at Tren- 

 ton has led some geologists to suppose that the formation was a 

 glacial moraine. The occasional though very rare examples of 

 scratched pebbles and polished boulders, which the flood had evi- 

 denth' carried down from the moraine material north of Belvidere. 

 have been brought forward as supporting this theory. Yet the 

 absence of till and of angular masses of rock, and generalh^ of 

 materials foreign to the Delaware Yalley, when regarded in con- 

 nection with what we have shown to be the genei-al characters of 

 the formation, can not be explained upon this theor3^ The char- 

 acter of the river banks along the valley render the presence of a 

 glacier at Trenton extremely improbable. These show no marks 

 of glacial action. We have, moreover, already shown that 

 the Trenton gravel is more recent than the deposits of Cham- 

 plain age, and that, lying in a channel cut within them, it is 

 the most recent of all the gravels. Clearly the Delaware Yalley 

 and the channel of the river were excavated in a time previous to 

 the deposition of the Trenton gravel. The channel subsequently 

 having been filled up b}" this gravel, the diminished river still 

 later has cut a new channel either completely through it, as at 

 Trenton, or partiall}', as at Philadelphia. It is probable that 

 slight undulations of the level of the coast have aided in producing 

 these changes. 



Before describing the human relics found in the Trenton gravel, 

 there are several facts bearing upon its origin and age which it 

 will be well to consider. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



It has been noticed that from Trenton to Philadelphia the creeks 

 flowing into the river Delaware have a steep south bank, while the 

 ground north of the creek is flat. The writer finds that the flat 

 ground north of the creek is made of Trenton gravel, while the 

 southern bank is made of older formations which have been for- 

 merly cut away by water action coming from the north. Thus, 

 the steep soutli bank of the Neshamin}- is made of " Philadelphia 

 red gravel "' of Champlain age, while a flat plain of Trenton gravel 

 lies south of the creek. The same configuration of the banks of 

 creeks on the Xew Jersey shore has been noticed by Prof. Cook. 

 By assuming that the river at the time of the deposition of this 

 gravel was of larger volume than now, this fact is of ready explana- 

 tion. The southern bank of the creek, often of Cretaceous or 

 Tertiary strata, in each case formed the shore of the ancient river, 

 and was worn away into a steep bank by the flood from the north. 

 Similar in cause and eflfect are the present banks of the Delaware, 

 which are steep on the outside of each curve of the river, and flat 

 and covered with recent alluvium on the inside. 



Another fact showing river action is the frequent occurrence of 

 exposures of "' flow and plunge structure " in this gravel. In these 

 the layers are seen to dip up stream, as would be expected by 

 downward flowing water. It is interesting to find, on the other 

 hand, that the same stinicture in the Tertiary gravels, both of 

 Pennsylvania and Xew Jersej', shows layers dipping southeast, as 

 though deposited by incoming oceanic tides. 



Another instance of the fluviatile character of the Trenton gravel 

 is found in the peculiar topography which it sometimes exhibits. 

 Frequently, instead of forming a flat plain, it forms higher ground 

 close to the present river channel than it does near its ancient 

 bank. Moreover, not only does the ground thus slope downward 

 on retreating from the river, but the boulders become smaller and 

 less abundant. Both of these facts are in accordance with the 

 laws of river depcjsits. In a time of flood the rapidly flowing 

 water in the main channel, bearing detritus, is checked by the more 

 quiet waters at the side of the river, and is forced to deposit its 

 gravel and boulders as a kind of bank. 



In determining the comparative age of the Trenton gravel, a guide 

 may be found in the amount of its erosion. In this respect a 

 marked contrast exists between this and more ancient gravels. 

 Unlike the land covered b}' older surface formations, that covereil 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 1880.] 



bv the T ronton gravel is remarkably level and free from hillocks 

 or ravines. The change in topograph}- nia^^ be well seen in the 

 neighborhood of Trenton, and can be noticed almost anywhere 

 along the valle}'. Tliis fact alone would indicate a more recent 

 age than that of the cla>'s and gravels of the Champlain epoch. 

 This difference is much more marked when comparison is made 

 with the oceanic gravels. 



The actual time necessary for the Delaware to cut down to the 

 rock through 50 feet of this gravel at Trenton is by no means 

 great. Numerous facts have been adduced by geological writers 

 and by engineers to show how rapidly a stream of water can wear 

 through loose gravel material. When it is noted that the gravel 

 cliff at Trenton has been made, not by a straight downward cut, 

 but by a side wearing away as at a bank, and when it is remem- 

 bered that the erosive power of the Delaware was formerly ver}' 

 much greater than it is now, it will be conceded that the presence 

 of the cliff at Trenton will not necessarily infer its high antiquity. 

 From what is known of the action of running water upon gravel, 

 it is thought that the time necessary to produce the erosion now 

 observed might be reckoned by hundreds rather than by thou- 

 sands of years. While the gravel w^as of course formed in a 

 previous time, the rapid action of the flood which deposited it, 

 shown in many places by the character of the gravel, indicates 

 that the time necessary for its deposition need not have been long. 



Having now shown that the Trenton gravel is a true river 

 deposit of modern age, it will be of interest to inquire how such a 

 flood as we have proved to exist could have originated. No flood 

 within the historical epoch has been known to at all approach in 

 magnitude that which deposited the Trenton gravel. No boulders 

 of the size found in and upon that gravel are ever carried down 

 the river by recent ice-cakes. In fact, at Trenton and below, the 

 boulders of this gravel are often much larger than any in the 

 Champlain gravel of that part of the valley. 



We have seen that at the time of the Trenton gravel flood, the 

 lower part of Philadelphia, the whole of Bristol and Tullytown, and 

 almost all of Trenton were submerged. That the climate was then 

 cold is indicated not only by the suggestion that there were then prob- 

 ably very large masses of boulder-bearing ice floating in the river, 

 but also by the fact that, as the writer is informed by Dr. C. C. 

 Abbott, bones of Arctic animals (walrus, reindeer, mastodon), 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



often rounded bv attrition, have been found in tliis gravel. 

 Although the Trenton gravel has none of the features of a moraine, 

 it is true that the cliff at the base of Iliverview Cemetery, holding 

 immense boulders, has the appearance of having been deposited 

 by glacial waters. At other places, the l)Oulders resting upon the 

 sand overlying the gravel suggests the grounding of large ice- 

 cakes derived from some mass of ice large enough to be called a 

 glacier. 



It is difficult to imagine an origin for such a flood as we have 

 described other than the melting of a glacier. We have shown 

 that the flood was not an inroad from the sea, but that it 

 came down the valley. No rain-storms of modern experience 

 could have supplied such an amount of water. To call the time 

 of this flood a " Pluvial Epoch," will be of little assistance, since 

 no origin for such extraordinary rains is suggested, except under 

 a very different climate, or by evaporation from a melting glacier. 



Yet such a glacier cannot be the great glacier of the Glacial epoch. 

 That was the glacier which in its melting deposited the brick-claj' 

 and red gravel which we have shown to be much older than the 

 Trenton gravel. It must have been, if a glacier at all, another 

 and moi*e recent one whose melting caused the flood which formed 

 this gravel. This last glacial flood flowed in a channel excavated 

 through the deposits of the first glacial period. 



It appears, then, that there is evidence of a Second Glacial 

 Feriod — a period in which was deposited the last of the gravels, 

 and which has but lately passed away. From the limited extent 

 of its deposits it is inferred that the second glacier was much 

 smaller than the first, and that its southern extremity was con- 

 fined to the valley. A second glacial period is recognized in 

 Europe under the name of the Reindeer Period. 



It is thought that the hypothesis of a second and more local 

 glacier, long subsequent in age to the first great glacier, will 

 explain all the facts obsci'ved. The Trenton gravel cannot be 

 assigned to the first glacial period except by assuming that there 

 have been no river gravels deposited since that time ; — an assump- 

 tion which can hardl\' be maintained. Some European archie- 

 ologists have held that the Palseolithie Era, the era of the river 

 gravels, is antecedent to the Reindeer Period, the period of the 

 cave-men. No such distinction has been ()l)scrved on the Delaware. 

 Should future researches show that a separate and second glacial 




306 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



epoch cannot ho proved in America, the facts here observed will 

 indicate a much more recent date for the disappearance of the 

 great glacier than has been assigned to it. The period of the 

 Trenton gravel flood, whether contemporaneous with a glacier or 

 not, is the period of the last geological deposits here known ; the 

 recent mud-flats being alone excepted. 



We have noAv glanced at the characters of the Trenton gravel, 

 and have indicated, so far as the facts at hand allow, its position. 

 origin, and relative age. 



It is in this gravel that the writer's friend, Dr. Charles 

 C. Abbott, of Trenton, has made the interesting discovery of stone 

 implements of human workmanship, which, in their shape and 

 characters, are quite iinlike those of the Red Indians of the Atlantic 

 coast.^ He has found them imbedded at various depths in the ap- 

 parently undisturbed gravel of the cliff at Riverview Cemetery 

 and in other places near Trenton. They are of palaeolithic type, 

 and diflTer from Indian stone implements by being larger, ruder, 

 and made from a diflTerent material. They are composed of gray 

 argillite, a rock which is found in place farther up the river, 

 and which is a Triassic shale altered and hardened by the heat 

 from adjacent trap dykes. They occur in positions wiiich render 

 it extremely probable that the}- belong to the same age as that of 

 the deposition of the gravel, or at least to an age when it was 

 overflowed b\' the flooded river. There are two points Avhich 

 offer strong evidence in that direction. 



The first is the fact that modern Indian implements, "neoliths,'" 

 are never found associated with these " palaioliths " in the gravel. 

 Although abundant on the surface, it is stated that they never 

 occur at a depth of more than a few inches in undisturbed soil, 

 while the palteoliths are found often ten or more feet from the sur- 

 face. This fact alone argues a different age for the two classes of 

 implements. 



The second fact is that when found below the surface of the 

 ground, these palffioliths always occur in the Trenton gravel and 

 never in older gravels. The writer, in compan}^ with Dr. Abbott, 

 has gone over much of the ground where the implements occurred ; 

 and it was very interesting to find that it was only within the 

 limits of the Trenton gravel, previously traced out by the writer. 



' V. Tenth and Eleventh Annual Reports of the Peabody Museum of 

 American Archseology. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



that Dr. Abbott had found inipknnents bolowthc surface. Beyond 

 the terrace of older gravels the i^alteoliths sometimes occur with 

 implements of the modern type, but are not imbedded at any 

 depth. In Pennsylvania, moreover, the writer has found similar 

 palaioliths in the region covered b}^ the Trenton gravel and in that 

 region only. Here, then, is the strongest probability, even if the 

 implements were found upon the surface only, that they belonged 

 to and were of coeval deposition with the river gravel. 



The implements of argillite found at the lowest depth in undis- 

 turbed gravel have been generally decided by archaeologists to be 

 of human origin. It is, however, true that there are many sharp 

 fragments of this rock in the Trenton gravel which are of natural 

 origin, and that pebbles and partially rounded fragments of the 

 same rock are frecpient. The writer has found several fragments 

 of argillite in the gravel exposed at the cut near Wheatsheaf 

 Station, Bucks Co., Pa., which, whether thej' were artificial oi- 

 natural, it was impossible to determine. 



All the evidence that has been gathered points to the conclu- 

 sion that at the time of the Trenton gravel flood, man in a rude 

 state lived upon the banks of the ancient Delaware. He may have 

 been in the habit of spearing fish and seals with spears pointed by 

 his rough stone implements, and these having been dropped into 

 the flood may have sunk into the loose and shifting gravel. The 

 weathering upon the implements is so slight as to afford no evi- 

 dence of their high antiquity. Many of the pahvoliths found in 

 the river gravels of Europe, are of verj^ similar t3'pe. As a rule, 

 probably the implements of the Trenton gravel are somewhat more 

 rude. The writer is informed that even more primitive forms are 

 now in constant use among some of our Western Indian tribes. 



It is interesting to find, as pointed out by arciuvologists, that 

 until latel}'^ the Eskimos have used stone implements quite as rude 

 and similar in appearance to those found in the Trenton and other 

 river gravels, and it has been suggested that that race, now living 

 in a climate and under conditions perhaps similar to those once 

 existing on the Delaware, maj' have some kinship with the pre- 

 Tndian people of this river. It may be that an Eskimo race, living 

 here at the time of the flooded Delaware, were driven north by 

 the coming of the Red Indians. If future archaeological work 

 shows this surmise to be correct, the wn'iter suggests that the 

 period of the Trenton gravel and of this palivolithic people, — a period 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



l)eihaps following a second glacial age, — might appropriately be 

 called The Eskimo Period. This name, derived from a higher order 

 of beings than that which gave the name Reindeer Period^ is much 

 more suggestive and is probably- of full}- as wide application as 

 the latter name. A term already in use, the Palaeolithic Era, is 

 also convenient. 



It has been held that the occurrence of palseoliths at Trenton 

 ottered evidence of a verj- high antiquity- of man in America, and, 

 the gravel being considered as a glacial moraine, that man's exist- 

 ence was carried back to interglacial and even preglacial times. ' 

 As we have seen, the geological investigations along the Delaware 

 Vallej', described in this paper, throw quite a new light upon this 

 subject. They show that the implement-bearing gravel is of post- 

 glacial age, and is a river deposit of comparative!}' recent forma- 

 tion ; and that neither in the gravels of the Champlain epoch nor in 

 deposits of any previous age have any traces of man been 

 discovered. The evidence appears to indicate the origin of 

 man at a time which, geologically considered at least, is recent. 



The actual age of the Trenton gravel, and the consequent date to 

 which the antiquit}' of man on the Delaware should be assigned, is 

 a question which geological data alone are insufficient to solve. 

 The only clue, and that a most unsatisfactory one, is afforded by 

 calculations based upon the amount of erosion. This, like all geo- 

 logical considerations, is relative rather than absolute. The same 

 reasoning that showed that the modern river channel might have 

 been excavated in hundreds rather than thousands of years, will 

 indicate that no great length of time is necessarj- to produce all 

 the surface features of the Trenton gravel. While the writer may 

 venture to express the opinion that there is no reason geologicall}- 

 for carrj'ing the age of this gravel and the antiquity of man on the 

 Delaware farther back than a very few thousand years at the most, 

 he is fully aware that any close approximation can safely be 

 arrived at only by extended comparison with other river gravels and 

 b}' a much moi'e complete series of observations than have yet 

 been possible. Ethnological considerations, which make palaeo- 

 lithic man to antedate the oldest races of the mound-builders, will 

 have a bearing upon this question. Meteorologists may show that 



' It will be remembered that Sir Charles Lyell, iu his Principles of Geol- 

 ogy, 11th Ed., vol. 1, p. 286, conjectures the period of the great glacier to 

 have been about 200,000 years ago. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ^iOO 



a cold climate and a period of a flood far larger than any of latf ex- 

 perience may require a long lapse of time. These considerations 

 are not within the scope of this paper. It has been the aim of the 

 writer to define the antiquity of man in relation to geological rather 

 than to historical events. If, in showing that the Eskimo period is 

 the last of the geological ages, it does not necessarily follow that it 

 is by anj^ means recent, it must be remembered, on the other luind. 

 that its high antiquity is not proven by the facts thus far 

 observed. 



The conclusions to which the facts seem to point may briefly be 

 summarized as follows : — 



1. That the Trenton gravel, the only gravel in which implements 

 occur, is a true river deposit of post-glacial age, and the most 

 recent of all the gravels of the Delaware valley. 



2. That the palreoliths found in it really belong to and are a 

 ])art of the gravel, and that they indicate the existence of man in 

 a rude state at a time when the flooded river flowed on top of this 

 gravel. 



3. That the data obtained do not necessarily prove, geologically 

 considered, an extreme antiquity of man in Eastern America. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Note on Philadelphite — a new mineral. — Mr. Lewis gave a pre- 

 liminary description of a neAV vcrmiculito from near Wayne 

 Station on the (iermantown Railroad, which he proposed to call 

 •• Philadelphite.'' It occurs in plates of a brown color and talcose 

 lustre, existing as seams in an altered hornblende rock. When 

 heated, it exfoliates with great force to many times its original size 

 and becomes of a coppery bronze color. It was stated that while 

 exfoliating, it was able to lift over 50,000 times its own weight. It 

 iiad a hygroscopic power nearly as great as that of chloride of 

 calcium. Its optical characters and its chemical composition were 

 U'iven. 



Analysis of rJnladelphite. — Mr. Reuben Haines contributed 

 the following analyses of Philadelphite. 



Specific gravity (determined in alcohol of 95 p. c.) 2.78-2.96. 



100.98 99.31 



Per cent, of hygroscopic water in I, 3.12 p. c. ; in II, 3.43 p. c. 

 In these analj^ses the mineral was dried nt 100° C, the hygro- 

 scopic water not being included in the determinations. Owing to 

 its very hygroscopic nature, it was found very diftlcult to obtain 

 its weight at 100° C. accurately'. It gains rapidly in weight while 

 being weighed upon the balance. Examples of its hygroscopic 

 power were given. The analyses were made by dissolving the 

 mineral in concentrated hj^drochloric acid. Iron was estimated 

 volumetrically and the alkalies by Smith's method of fusion. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIIL.VKKI.PHrA. 311 



December ■22. 1879. 



THE SO-CALLED EMERY-ORE FROM CHELSEA, BETHEL TOWNSHIP, 

 DELAWARE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY F. A. GENTH, JR. 



At the November meeting of this Section, Dr. Cardeza called 

 the attention of the members to a garnet rock, mined as emery- 

 ore, at Chelsea, Bethel Township. Delaware Co., Pa., and subse- 

 ([ueuth' left it with rne for analysis. 



The rock is composed almost exclusively of rounded rhombie- 

 dodecahedral grains of red garnet, varying in size from a fraction 

 of a millimetre to over one centimetre ; also a little quartz, biotite, 

 muscovite, and magnetite. It is very friable, being easily crushed. 



Its fracture is uneven, excepting in some of the larger grains, 

 which are so much intersected by mica, that, when struck b}- a 

 hammer, the}' break into angular fragments, apparently showing a 

 crystalline cleavage. Specific gravity = 4.028. 



An analysis of the smaller and purer grains, obtained by wash- 

 ing and picking out, gave : 



SiO, = 41.11 



FeA = 2.11 



A 1,03 = 21.60 



FeO = 25.86 



MnO = 2.22 



CaO = 1.89 



MgO = 5.41 



100.20 

 which proves it to be an ordinary iron-alumina garnet. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Some New Mineral Localities. — Mr. Joseph Wili.cox announced 

 the followinf!: new mineral localities: 



Burgess, Ontario, Canada, on the north shore of Rideau Lake : 

 Phlogopite, Green Pyroxene, Apatite, Zircon. North Elmsley, 

 near Otty Lake, Canada : Phlogopite, in large and perfect crys- 

 tals. Bedford, Trontenac Co., Ont., Can.: Apatite (unusually 

 fine), Black Pyroxene, Scapolite. Near Westport, Ontario, Can. : 

 Black Tourmaline. Russel, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. : Steatite 

 pseudomorphous after Tremolite and Scapolite ; Black Tour- 

 maline, with modified terminations. Macon Co., N. C. : Crystals 

 of Biotite in Muscovite. 



All the above were found in fine specimens, well crystallized. 

 Specimens were exhibited to the Section. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELnilA. 313 



ON PHILADELPHITE (Sp. Nov.). 

 BY HENRY CARVILL LEWIS. 



The mineral to which the above title has been applied was found 

 by the writer four years ago, in what was then a quarry of horn- 

 blendic gneiss, close to the boundary of the Twenty-second Ward, 

 Philadelphia. The locality is on Germantown Avenue, at the 

 l)ridge crossing of the Germantown and Xorri.sto^^^^ Railroad, 

 near Wayne Station. The quarr}- is now walled up, and i< used 

 as a coal and lime yard. 



Geologicall}', the locality is just at the base of the terrace of 

 metamorphic rocks which bounds the drift formations underlying 

 the greater part of the cit}'. Quaternary claj'S, boulders of the 

 Champlain period, and tertiaiy gravels appear within a hundred 

 feet of the quarry, and the waters of those different epochs have 

 successively eroded the hill rising above it. This hill, here called 

 Xegley's or Logan's Hill, about 225 feet in height, is part of the 

 same hill or " Upland Terrace," which, trending nearly northeast 

 and southwest, has been traced continuously from here into Mary- 

 land, on the one side, and across New Jersey on the other, and 

 which, though composed of quite different rocks in different places, 

 forms throughout, the boundary of the post-jurassic formations.' 



The rock at this place is a hard black hornblendie gneiss, subject 

 to decomposition in its upper portions. It is well exposed in the 

 cut on Wayne Street, Avhere numerous minerals occur, and it is 

 the same which is quarried at Frankford and at McKinney's 

 quarry, both noted mineral localities. In its altered state it 

 crumbles easily, and when heated exfoliates. In this condition, 

 after being crushed in a mill between heavy iron roller>. it is 

 sometimes used as a building sand. 



The mineral here described as Philodelphite belongs tu tin.' ver- 

 miculite group of hydrous silicates. It occurs both disseminated 

 in scales throughout the gangue-rock,and also in seams, an inch or 

 more in thickness and many feet long. Associated with it in the 

 same quarry are crystals of sphene, epidote and hornblemle, and 

 specks of chalcop3'rite. It has been found in small quantities also 

 at Wayne Street, at McKinney's quarry, and in Germantown. 



' r. Proc. Min. and Geolog. Section Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila.. Nov., 18T8. 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Since most of the voiiniculites occur in serpenlinous or chloritic 

 formations, it is to be noted that no such rocks occur here or in 

 the vicinity. The mineral is probably derived originally from 

 hornblende. 



PJnjsical Choj-acfe?'.^. — Hardness, 1.3; Specific gravity, 2.80 

 (taken in alcohol and referred to water). Lustre pearly. Color, 

 b}' reflected light, bronze ; bj' transmitted light, brownish red, and 

 in very thin lamina?, brownish j^ellow. Opaque, except in thin 

 pieces. Streak brownish yellow. Laminte iinelastic, readily 

 flexible, tough, not brittle. Feel greasy, 



C rystallograjMc Characters. — Monoclinic. Cleavage ; basal, emi- 

 nent ; also, occasionally, a cleavage parallel to the diagonals. 

 Striations crossing at about 90°, causing the mineral to break 

 into nearly rectangular fragments, are sometimes observed, and 

 these are parallel to the plane of the optic axes and to the diagonals 

 of the rhomb. No triangular striations as in JeflTerisite. Plates 

 often contorted and wrinkled. Twin crystals frequent, observable 

 by polarized light. Optically biaxial. Double refraction strong, 

 negative. Optic-axial angle, 31°20'-39°30' ; generally 3t°±. 

 Crj'stals sometimes nearly 2 inches wide and \ inch high. The 

 hj'l^erbolas are well defined in the polariscope, and the angle of 

 their divergence is more constant than in some of the other ver- 

 miculites. Twinning produces variations in the angle. ^ 



Pyrognostic Character a. — In the closed tube it gives oflT water and 

 exfoliates with great force, in a' direction perpendicular to its base, 

 to ten times its original volume. Upon exfoliation it becomes of a 

 bright copper color and takes a metallic lustre. It also becomes 

 brittle and more opaque. The exfoliated mineral has a far more 

 distinct and frequent secondary vertical cleavage than it has before 

 exfoliation, and the basal cleavage is also easier. It shows strong 

 double refraction in the polariscope, and has an optical divergence 

 of about the same amount as that of the unignited mineral (30° to 

 37°). The hyperbolas are extremely ill-defined, and no exact 

 measurements could be taken. It is yellow by transmitted light. 

 It forms a fine object under the microscope hy reflected light. 

 The fine copper color gained on exfoliation is characteristic, dis~ 

 tinguishing it from the other verraiculites. The color is obtained 

 whether it is heated suddenly in the flame, or SI0WI3' in an air-bath 

 to exfoliation. Upon long-continued ignition in a platinum cru- 



' V. Prof. Cooke's Paper on tlie Verraiculites, Proc. Amer. Acad., 

 Boston, 1874, 35. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



cible, heated without access of air, it becomes a steel-graj- color, its 

 iron having been reduced. Before the blowpii)e it gives the violet 

 rtarae of potash and fuses to a black magnetic globule, which does 

 not intumesce when further heated. 



With the fluxes it reacts for silica and iron. It is readil}' dis- 

 solved by hot sulphuric acid, the pure white silica being left in the 

 original shape of the mica. It is dissolved in hydrochloric acid 

 upon long digestion. 



Chemical Compodtion. — In the investigation of the chemical 

 composition of Philadelphlte the writer has had the valuable 

 advice of his friend. Prof. F. A. Genth, of the University of 

 Pennsylvania. The method used in the estimation of vanadium 

 is entirely due to him. The writer is also indebted to his friend, 

 Mr. Reuben Haines, of Germantown. for two analyses, and for 

 some interesting experiments. 



Of the four analj-ses given below, Numbers I and II are by Mr. 

 Haines; Nos. Ill and IV by the writer. Nos. I and II were 

 made upon the pulverized mineral, previously dried in an air-bath 

 at 100^ C; the hygroscopic water, amounting to over 3 p. c, not 

 l)eing included in the determinations. " In both the analyses the 

 sample was dissolved in concentrated HCl, and the SiO.. purified 

 1)y digestion with HCl. The Fe and Al were precipitated together 

 by NILHO and the Fe titrated by permanganate. The ferrous 

 oxide was found by dissolving the weighed mineral in sulphuric 

 acid in a closed flask from which the air was expelled by boiling 

 with sodic carbonate, and titrating as before. The magnesia was 

 weighed as pyrophosphate and the alkalies were separated In- 

 iSmith's method of fusion, and were determined by platinie chloride, 

 controlling the result l)y ignition of the platinic salt in hydrogen 

 and weighing as metallic platinum. The combined H.O is an 

 average of the results of experiments Nos. IV and VI (given 

 below) taken at a red heat on bottom of crucible.'" 



Analyses Nos. Ill and IV were made upon the ignited mineral, 

 this being considered its most constant state. The atomic- water 

 was determined separately, and the analysis of the anhydrous 

 mineral reduced when the percentage of watvr was addi-d. The 

 ignited mineral being witli dillicultv soluble in acid, it was deeom- 

 posed by fusion with sodie carbonate for analysis. Alter repeated 

 evaporation of the silica with HCl, it was found still to contain 

 titanic acid, which was extracted by evnporation with concen- 

 trated IliSOi and precipitated by dilution and boiling. Addi- 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



tional titanic acid was separated upon boiling the filtrate from SiO.^, 

 after rednction ■with HjS. In one anal3-sis titanic acid was sepa- 

 rated from SiO. by volatilizing the latter with HF, dissolving the 

 residne in H.SO,, diluting and boiling. Ferrous oxide was deter- 

 mined in the air-dried mineral as in analyses I and TI. Iron and 

 alumina were estimated by precipitation b}' boiling with sodic 

 acetate in a neutral solution, dissolving in HCl. reprecipitating 

 with XHiTIO, igniting and weighing together. In the filtrate 

 MnO was precipitated by bromine and ignited. 



The following method was employed for the detection of vana- 

 dium. 80 grammes of impure mineral Avere mixed with 90 grammes 

 of sodic carbonate and 100 grammes of sulphur, and the whole 

 heated slowly in a Hessian crucible covered by charcoal until 

 partially fused. It was tlien digested in warm water, filtered, and 

 to the filtrate dilute IICl was added, precipitating a copious 

 heavy flocculent brown mass of the sulphides of vanadium, copper, 

 cobalt and nickel. The precipitate was washed, ignited and evap- 

 orated with nitric acid, when it gave a red residue. This was fused 

 with a mixture of sodic carbonate and sodic nitrate, and extracted 

 with water in order to separate the oxides of copper, cobalt and 

 nickel. Solid ammonic chloride was now added to the aqueous 

 solution, wlien vanadate of ammonia was precipitated. Upon 

 io-nition it was changed to vanadic oxide, and was found to be 

 pure, giving all the characteristic reactions. 



For the estimation of vanadium the following method was em- 

 ployed. 4^ grammes of the pulverized ignited mica were fused 

 with a mixture of 3 parts NaCO;, and 1 part NaXOs, the mass ex- 

 tracted with H.O, filtered, and the filtrate digested with H.S. 

 Traces of CuS and FeS w^ere filtered off, and the silica eliminated 

 by evaporation to drjmessand addition of dilute H2SO4. H.Sw^as 

 ao-ain added, giving a blue solution. After driving off the IL.S by 

 heat, the vanadic acid present was estimated volumetrically by the 

 addition of a measured portion of a standard solution of per- 

 manganate of potash. 



Magnesia was determined as pyropliosphate, and the alkalies by 

 means of Smith's method. Phosphoric acid was precipitated as 

 phosphomolybdate of ammonia, and weiglied as pyrophosphate of 

 magne-jia. 



• On account of the remarkable hygroscopic powers of Phiiadel- 

 phite, great difficulty was experienced in the estimation of the com- 

 bined water. Nearly one-half of the water in the air-dried mineral 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELI'IIIA. 



317 



is hygroscopic, and nia}' be driven off either by long exposure over 

 sulphuric acid in a desiccator, or by drying in an air-bath at 100-' 

 C. The percentage of water given in the analyses represents 

 approximately the amount of water in the mineral after such 

 desiccation. 



Spec. grav. (taken in alcohol of 95 p. c) 2.78-2.9G. 



SiO, 



Al.O:, 



Fe.,0,, 



Fe.O 



MnO 



MgO 



CaO 



Xa.O 



Li.b 



K.O 



F 



H.O 



I. 



39.06 



14.75 



20.59 



2.04 



trace 



11.49 



.99 



.90 



trace 



0.89 



trace 



4.27 



II. 



38.52 



14.82 



20.01 



2.04 



trace 



11.32 



1.08 



.64 



trace 



6.01 



trace 



4.27 



Mean. 



38.79 



14.78 



20.30 



2.04 



11.40 

 1.03 



.77 



6.75 

 4.27 



Quantivalent ratio. 



2.587 

 .861 

 .761 

 .056 



.570 

 .037 

 .025 



.143 



.474 



2.587 

 1.622 



.831 



.474 



5.45 

 3.42 



1.75 



1.— 



Ilygr 



Spec. 

 2.80. 



SiO., 



TiO; 



Al.C), 



Fe.03 



V.O3 



FeO 



MnO 



XiO} 



Cooy 



CuO 



MgO 



CaO 



Xa,0 



Li.O 



k;o 



PO, 

 CI 



II.SO^ 

 11,0 



100.98 99.31 100.13 

 oscopic water in I, 3 12 ; in II, 3.43. 

 grav. (taken in alcohol of 84 p. c on the air-dried mineral) 



III. 



35.94 



1.30 



15.23 



19.48 



.37 



2.09 



.46 



trace 



trace 

 11.41 

 1.38 

 1.42 

 trace 

 6.52 

 trace 

 trace 

 trace 

 4.34 



IV. 



35.52 



.77 



16.32 



19.43 



.36 



2.28 



.55 



.06 



.08 



11.72 



1.54 



.38 

 trace 

 7.11 



.11 

 trace 

 trace 

 4.34 



Mean. 



35.73 



1.03 



15.77 



19.46 



.37 



2.18 



.50 



.06 



.08 



11.56 



1.46 



.90 



6.8i 

 .11 



4.34 



Quantivalent ratio. 

 2.38 I 

 .05 ) 

 .91 



2.43 



73 !- 

 01 \ 

 06 

 01 



.58 

 .05 

 .03 



1.65 



.14 



.4S 



.87 



5.05 



3.43 



1.80 



.48 



99.94 100.63 100.45 

 Hygroscopic water in III and IV, 3.24. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



From both these pair of analyses vre have the ratio 



R: S : Si : H = 2 : 3 : 5 : 1 and R R : Si : H= 1 : 1 : i. The ratio 

 of bases to silica is l.^l, and :for sesquioxides to protoxides. 



VI II 



S : R = 2 : 1. 



Philadelphite dried at lOO^G. appears to be a unisilicate, the 

 water not being basic. 



The formula mav perhaps be written 



Si II 0, II [| (K,,?4g) + a ^ (Ai , F€)]. + f aq 

 The general sj-mbol would be, 



R^,K,,0,o. Si5. 2 H.O. 

 The water will be regarded as water of crystallization. Prof. 

 Cooke has shown the close chemical relation between the anhj-drous 

 vermiculites and biotite. .A like result is brought out b}' the fol- 

 lowing analysis of ignited Philadelphite. The anah sis is a mean 

 of the two analyses of the anhydrous mineral which formed 

 analyses Xos. Ill and lY of the mineral dried at 100° C. 



Y. 



100.12 



II Vf 



Here R : R : Si = 1 : 2 : 3, the ratio of a typical biotite. Anal- 

 gous as the anhydrous mineral is to biotite in its formula, it has 

 been shown that physically and optically the two minerals are 

 quite dissimilar, and it is not proven that thej- have any necessary 

 connection. It is by no means a hydrous biotite in the sense that 

 margarodite is a hydrous muscovite, in which case the characters, 

 optical and physical, are identical. Such hydrous biotites occur 

 in several places in the vicinitj' of Philadelphia, in a partially 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



altered micaceous gneiss, in which the muscovite has become 

 margarodite, and the orthoclase become white and crumbling. 

 Such mica exfoliates slightly when heated, is uniaxial, fur^ible 

 with difficulty, and might be called Hijdrobiotite for convenience. 

 It frequently occurs enclosed in cr3'stals of margarodite, or in 

 muscovite passing into margarodite. 



Hygroscopic Properties. — In the determination of water in its 

 ditferent states in Philadelphite, the principal difficulty was on 

 account of the strong hygroscoinc properties possessed by the 

 mineral. After the water has been expelled by heat or desiccation, 

 it is rapidl}' absorbed again from the air, if exposed. Upon the 

 balance, the dried mineral gains so rapidly that it was found 

 necessary- while weighing to enclose it in corked tubes. It appears 

 to absorb water with the avidity of chloride of calcium. Even 

 when enclosed in watch-glasses clasped together and standing in 

 the closed balance-case with dry CaCl.., it gains decidedly in weight. 

 The following experiments by Mr. Haines illustrate its hygro- 

 scopic properties : 



Grammes. 



(1) Weight of undried mica, .9935 

 Heated at 100° C. for U hours, .9616 

 "Weight after standing in balance-case with CaCl. 



for 3 days, .9915 



Reheated for 3 hours at 100° C, .9580 



Left on balance 20 minutes. Gain in weight, .0070 



Left on balance 2 hours. Total gain in weight, .0085 



(2) Weight of undried mica, 1.1280 

 Heated at 100° C. for 3 hours, 1.0965 

 Left in balance-case with CaCl„ for 1 hour, 1.1175 

 Left in balance-case with CaCL for H hours, 1.1230 

 Left in balance-case with CaCl.^ for 2^ hours, 1.1250 

 Left in balance-case with CaCl^ for 2 days, 1.1260 



(3) Undried mica heated at 100° C. for 6^ hours. 



Loss, 2.49 p. c. 



On standing in balance-case with CaCl, for 2^ 

 days, regained nearly the whole of its original 

 weight (all but 2 milligrammes'). Again 

 heated at 100- for 3 hours, loss of weight, 3.00 p. c. 



Tliese experiments, showing that nearly the total amount of 

 hygroscopic water is regained even in the presence of such an 




O-20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



active ilesiccator as chloride of calcium, indicate a remarkable 

 hygroscopic force in the dried snbstance ; a property' not easy to 

 explain. It will be noticed that this force is exercised much more 

 powerfully immediately after desiccation than it is after a lapse of 

 time. Experiment No. (2) shows that two-thirds of the water is 

 absorbed during the first hour. It has been found that the amount 

 of water in the i)owdered mineral varies with the hygrometric state 

 of the atmosphere at the time of w^eighing. It is interesting to 

 note that several of the zeolites, a class of hydrous silicates whos^e 

 exfoliation by heat is ver}' like that of the vermiculites, also have 

 strong hygroscopic powers, losing and regaining part of their 

 water with ease.^ 



Wafer of CrysfaUization — The water in Philadelphite probably 

 exists in three theoretical conditions, viz. : — H^'groseopic water, 

 water of crystallization and water of constitution. The first is 

 driven off by drying at 100° C. or by exposure to dry air over 

 HjSO^; the second b}- gentle ignition, and is accompanied by ex- 

 foliation ; the third by strong and prolonged ignition. The latter, 

 which probably does not much exceed 1 per cent., and which 

 the analj'scs have shown is not needed with the basic radicals to 

 complete the unisilicate formula, will be regarded with the water 

 of crystallization. The most satisfactory determinations of the 

 water of crystallization have been made by subtracting the hygro- 

 scopic water from the total water. 



The following experiments have been made upon the amount 

 and condition of the water. 



(1). Tlie dry mica, which had been out of the quany for more 

 than a year, was cut into pieces about 5 mm. square, heated in a 

 platinum crucible to a bright red heat for 25 minutes, cooled in a 

 desiccator over H-.SOi for half an hour, and then quickh- weighed. 

 It lost 7.58 per cent., which will be regarded as the total amount 

 of water. 



(2). The finel}- powdered mica holds more water. Different 

 experiments gave: — l.Si (ignited 10 minutes), "7.89, 7.90, 8.11 

 (ignited 25 minutes), 7.50 (powdered just previous to ignition). 

 Strong ignition of the powdered mica probabl}' volatilizes some of 

 the alkalies in addition to the water. 



^ Damour (Ann. d. Mines, IV, x, 208) shows by an experiment similar to 

 those given above, that the water lost by heulandite exposed over H.^SO^ is 

 all regained in 1^ days. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMIILADELI'III A. 321 



(3) Tilt- finely powdered mica was divided into two portions, 

 one of wliicli was s}>read out on an open watcli-.s,dass, the other 

 phiced in a crucible. Both were weighed, put in a desiccator over 

 sulphuric acid, and let stand unopened for two months. That in 

 the crucible lost 2.76 per cent, of water. That on the watch-glass 

 had lost 3-87 per cent. On standing 3 or 4 minute.^ upon the 

 scale-pan it gained .53 per cent, of water from the air. Upon ex- 

 posure over sulphuric acicl in the desiccator 24 hours longer and 

 then being quickly weighed, it was found to have lost 8.99 per 

 cent. It was now placed in an air-bath and kept at a temperature 

 of 100° C. for 4 hours. After cooling 15 minutes in the desiccator, 

 it was found to have gained in weight about ^ per cent., indicating 

 that the de.->iccation over sulphuric acid was more comjjlete than 

 that in the air-bath at 100° C. That in the crucible lost on igni- 

 tion 5.97 per cent, of its weight. 



(4). The powdered mica was placed in a watch-glass in a desic- 

 cator over sulphuric acid. 



After 27 days it had lost 2.28 per cent. 

 u ^Q .. a u 2.3(5 



During weighing, it was enclosed in clasped watch-glasse.s. It was 

 now put in a crucible and ignited. 



The dried mineral lost on 1st ignition, 5.18 per cent. 

 '• '• " 2d " 5.36 



" " " 3d " 5.47 " 



(5). The following direct determinations of water of crystal- 

 lization were made from the mica, dried in a glass tube, corked 

 while Aveighing, and then ignited in a crucible. 



This determination is thought to be too high, including some 

 hygroscopic water, since the mica in a tube cannot be perfectly 

 desiccated. 



A mean of the three determinations of hygroscopic water ab- 

 sorbed over sulphuric acid gives 3.24 per cent., which di'ductid 




3"22 PROCEEDINGS OF TllK ACA11EMY OF [1880. 



from the total water, 1.58 per cent., giA^es for water of crj'stalliza- 

 tion, 4.34 per cent. As will be seen below, a similar amount is de- 

 duced from Mr. Haines' experiments. 



The following experiments by Mr. Haines have been kindly 

 placed at the disposal of the writer. They may be relied upon as 

 having been performed with great care. 



I. The powdered mica is placed in a desiccator over concen- 



trated sulphuric acid. 



(a) Dried 15 days. Loss, 2.69 per cent. 



(b) " 10 " " 2.89 



II. The undried mica is heated in an air-bath at 100° C. 



(a) Heated 3 hours. Loss, 3.14 per cent. 



(b) " 3.33 " 



(c) " 3.42 " 



(d) " 5^ " " 3.69 " 



Weights. Per cent, of loss. 



III. Weight before heating. 1.0880 



Heated at 100°, 1^ hours. 1.0613 2.46 



" " 4^ " 1.0598 2.59 

 Over HvSOi and heated 5 hours 



at 100°. 1.0558 2.96 

 Heated 2 hours at 100° and 



cooled over H^SO*. 1.0613 2.46 



Weight. Total Logs' from Incre- p. c. of p. c. of 

 loss. 100° O. ment total loss fr. 



IV. Weight before heating. .9035 

 Heated at 100° C. for Ihr. .8743 .0292 



" 100° " 2 " .8730 .0305 



" 105° " 2i" .8715 .0320 



" 119° " 1 " .8705 .0330 



" full red heat 5 min. .8350 .0685 

 " over blast lamp 



1st time. .8270 .0765 .0460 



" over blast lamp 



2d time. .8280 .0755 .0450 8.35 5.15 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Weight. Total Los? from Incre- p.c. of p.c. of 



loss. 100^-' C. ment total Ujb* fr. 



ofloss. loss. 100°C 



V. Weight of undried mica .8052 



" at 100° C. .7827 .0225 2.79 



" at 125° C. cooled 



for 3 minutes. .7757 .0295 .0070 .0070 3.60 0.8;t 



" at 150° cooled for 



3 minutes. .7682 .0370 .0145 .0075 4.. 50 1.^5 



" at 170°-175° cool- 

 ed for 4 min. .7682.0370.0145 4.50 1.85 



" 190° cooled for 3 



minutes. .7647 .0405 .0180 .0035 5.03 2.30 



VI. Weight of undried mica. .9855 



" at 100°C, heated 



several hours. .9615 .0240 2.43 



Below faint red heat. .9445 .0410 .0170 .0170 4.16 1.77 

 Heated to pale red at 



bottom of crucible. .9320 .0535 .0295 .0125 5.32 3.07 

 Heated to bright red at 



bottom of crucible. .9210 .0645 .0405 .0110 6.54 4.21 

 Heated to full red on 



whole crucible. .9148.0707 .0467 .0062 7.17 4.85 



VII. Total water. 



(a) Loss of weight at red heat, 7.30 per cent. 



(b) " " on ignition, 7.50 '• 



(c) " " " 3 times, 7.86 " 



From the above experiments of Mr. Haines in connection with 

 Nos. (1), (2) and (3) under " h^'groscopic properties," we may 

 deduce the following percentages : 



For total water, we have (IV), 7.58 p. c; (VI), 7.17 ; (VII. a. 

 b, c), 7.30, 7.50, 7.86. 



Mean total water, 7.48 per cent. 



For liygroscopic water, driven off at 100°, we have 



Exp. (1) Exp. (1) Exp. (-21 Exp. (3) 



Analysis I. Analysis II. Heated U hrs. Reheated 3 hrs. 3 hrs. 3 brs. 

 3.12 3.43 3.21 3.57 2.79 3.09 



Exp.IIaExp. lib Exp. lie Exp. II d Exp. III. Exp. IV. Exp. V. Exp. VI. 

 3 hrs. .5^ hrs. 5 his. 2 hrs. several In-s. 



3.14 3.33 3.42 3.(;9. 2.96 3.37 2.79 2.43 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF TllK ACADEMY OF [1880. 



A moan of these 14 determinations gives for hygroscopic wiiter 

 o.lT per cent. 



Snbtracting tliis from the mean total water, 1.48 per cent., we 

 have for water of ci\ystallization 4.31 per cent., an amount closely 

 agreeing with that deduced from the Avriter's experiments. The 

 desiccation over sulphuric acid in Exp. I is for too short a time to 

 completely extract the hygroscopic water. 



The exact state of the water cannot yet be regarded as certainly 

 established. There is no reason wh}' a fixed temperature of 100° 

 C. should divide the hygroscopic water from the water of crystal- 

 lization. The above experiments show that the loss of water as 

 the temperature is raised above that point is a very gradual one. 

 It is difficult to see in what manner the water driven off at 190"° 

 in experiment Y, differs from that driven ofi at 100°. It will be 

 seen hereafter that much of the water can be driven off without 

 exfoliation. Again, there is no sufficient reason why some of the 

 water absorbed by sulphuric acid in the desiccator may not be 

 water of crystallization. It has been long known that sulphate of 

 copper either at 100° C. or in a desiccator over sulphuric acid 

 loses much of its water of crystallization. M. Damour has shown 

 that chabazite loses nearly half of its water in a desiccator. It 

 seems probable that Philadelphite, with other vermiculites, holds 

 its water in a similar manner. From the experiments here de- 

 tailed it would seem that we may define water of constitution to 

 be the more closel}' combined, and hygroscopic water the less 

 closely combined water of crystallization ; and the distinction 

 between the three states of water then becomes a theoretical rather 

 than a practical one. 



Temperature of Exfoliation. — The temperature at which exfo- 

 liation occurs is from 150° to 160° C. It has been found that the 

 exfoliation temperature is proportional directly to the original 

 volume of the substance, and inversely to the rapidity of the ap- 

 plication of heat. The larger the piece experimented upon, the 

 higher the temperature necessary to make it exfoliate, and the 

 more rapidly the heat can be applied, the sooner will it exfoliate ; 

 as the following experiments will show. 



(a) Very small fragments heated on a watch-glass in an air-bath 

 began to exfoliate at 150° C. 



{h) A large piece heated similarly did not exfoliate at 210° C. 



(c) A piece was immersed in melted parafflne. At 100° C. 




1880.] NAT.IRAL SCIFA'CES OF nilLADELPIITA. 325 



1)ul)blos went oil" slowly, but tlicve was no exfoliation. The tem- 

 perature being raised, it made tlie first movement at lOO -, exfoli- 

 ated vigoronsl}' at \'5°. and :it ISO^ lose from its sup])ort to tlic 

 surface of the paralHne. 



(d) Another piece similarly immersed gave l)ubbles Iniskly at 

 1.30°, and began to exfoliate at IfiU^. 



(e) Pieces thrown into melted parafline whose temperature had 

 previously been raised to KIO^ C, immediate!}' exfoliated and rose 

 to the surface. 



(/) A large piece did not exfoliate even after the temperature 

 had been gradually raised to 22.5° C. 



(g) Immersed in melted sulphur, it immediately exfoliated and 

 strongl}^ effervesced. 



(h) Immersed in concentrated sulphuric acid which had been 

 heated to 160° C, it immediately exfoliated and became pure 

 white, being completely and immediately decomposed. Immersed 

 similarly at a temperature of 150^ C. it exfoliated, but did not 

 become immediateh' white. At a lower temperature no exfoliation 

 occurred. A similar piece being similar!}' immersed and the tem- 

 perature raised, began to exfoliate at 130° C, and continued ex- 

 foliating as the temperature rose, though being meanwhile decom- 

 posed. This sudden change of form and color upon immersion in 

 hot sulphuric acid recalls a somewhat similar change in the etllor- 

 escence of protosulphate of iron wlien immersed in the same acid. 



It is seen from these experiments that no al)solute determination 

 of the exfoliation temperature is possible. By a very slow heat a 

 large propoi'tion of the water (about 5 per cent.) can be driven otl" 

 and the mica raised to a high heat without any exfoliation of 

 (•onse(pience. Tlie following experiment illustrates this fact. 



(^■) A piece of Philadelphite was cut into two equal jwrtions. 

 One piece, heated suddenly on platinum foil to a red heat, exfoliated 

 to ten times its original volume. The other piece was slowly 

 heated in an air-bath. At 285° C. it had exfoliated l)ut very 

 slightly. It was then tal^en out and heated on platinum foil to a 

 red heat, when it exfoliated very little more, becoming only one- 

 fourtlx the length of the first piece. 



A similar experiment has been made upon heulaudile and stilbite 

 from near Philadelpliia. Both of these zeolites, as is well known, 

 exfoliate largely when held in tlu' Hame. It has been found that 

 if they are heated very slowly on platinum foil, they cin be raised 




o2G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



to a white heat without exfoliation, and when afterwards held in 

 the tlanie, exfoliate but slightly. Apparently the water in Phila- 

 delphite is combined precisely as in tlie zeolites 



It appears that it is as ditlicult to make a distinction between 

 water of crystallization and water of constitution as it is to make 

 one between the former and h3'groscopic water. 



Amount of Exfoliation. — The amount of exfoliation is quite 

 constant at ten times the original volume. 



These experiments were made by heating the mica on platinum 

 foil over the flame of a Buusen burner. The heat must be sudden 

 in order to have a large exfoliation (v. Exp't. k). Exfoliation 

 takes place in one direction onl}% viz., at right angles to the 

 cleavage. No lateral expansion whatever occurs. When the 

 flame is applied to one side of the mica, that side exfoliates the 

 most, and causes the exfoliating mineral to curve in the opposite 

 direction. 



Force of Exfoliation. — It has been found that the force exer- 

 cised during the exfoliation of Philadelphite is enormous. In one 

 exjjeriment a fragment of it while exfoliating lifted more than 

 50,000 times its own weight. The force of exfoliation is governed 

 bv a law which is the inverse of that controlling the exfoliation 

 temperature. It may be stated thus : The force of exfoliation 

 increases directly with the rapidit}' of the expulsion of water, and 

 inversely with the volume of the substance. The latter part ot 

 tlie law follows as a necessarj' consequence of the first part, since 

 the smaller the fragment, the more rapidl}' and completelN' can it 

 be heated. Various experiments were made, and though per- 

 lormed in an extremely rough manner, will give an idea of this 

 force. To find what amount a given w^eight of the mica could lift 

 when exfoliating, iron pound-weights were placed upon the ring of 

 a retort stand and connected with the fragment of mica placed on 

 a support immediatel}' below them. A pencil of chalk or gas 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELIMII A. 



327 



carbon resting loosel}' in a iierpendicular position between the 

 mica and the centre of the weights connected them so that any 

 expansion of the mica would lift the weights from otl' the ring 

 on which they rested. The blowpipe flame was now directed 

 from one side upon the mica. 



a. retort stand. 



b. ring. 



r, support. 



d, weight. 



e, pencil of chalk. 

 /, fragment of mica. 



In the following table of experiments, the first column repre- 

 sents the weight of the fragment of mica, and the second column, 

 the iron weight which was lifted by the exfoliatuig mica. 



Philadelphite. Weisrht. 



15 grains lifted 10 lbs. avoirdupois. 



oi 



-2 



2 



1 



3 

 1 



10 lbs. 



10 lbs. 



10 lbs. 



5 lbs. 



2 lbs. 



3 lbs. 



2 lbs. 



3 lbs. 



4 lbs. 



readily. 



la the last experiment the four-pound weight was lifted up and 

 thrown oft" the ring supporting it; the weight lifted being 5G,010 

 times the weight of the mica. 



A remarkable motive power is here developed. That it is 

 owing solely to the escape of the combined water is shown by the 

 fact that if the weights are so arranged that the mica can only 

 slighth' expand, and, after heating, are removed, the mica will 

 expand no more, or very slightly more, upon further application 

 of heat, the water having l)een in great i)art exi)elled. If the mica 

 is confined under a weight so heavy that it is impossible for it to 




o2.*< VKOCEEPlNHiS OF TIIK ACAPEMY OF - [1880. 



exfoliate, and is suddciih* heated liy the flame, it ticcasionally 

 explodes with a loud report, throwing oil" fragments laterally into 

 the air. 



It may be stated that the exfoliated mineral when powdered, 

 forms a handsome and i)ermanont bronze powder not liable to 

 tarnish, and useful in the arts. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. SiW 



A Potsdam Sandstone Outcrop on the S. Valley Hill of Chester 

 Valley. — Mr. H. C. Lewis remarked that an occurrence of Potsdam 

 sandstone on the farm of Mr. S. Tyson, near Kinir of Trussia. 

 Montgomery Co., to which Mr. T. D. Rand had directe<l attention 

 hist Ma3% was of considerable interest. A recent examination of 

 the locality' with Mr. Rand, had shown that the blocivs of sand- 

 stone there found were not, as had been supposed, out of place, 

 l>ut beloni^ed to a narrow outcrop of the sandstone on the South 

 ^'alley Hill. It had a strike, and apparentl}' a dip, nearly iden- 

 tical with that of the limestone in the valley below. In one place 

 the decomposed rock is quarried for white sand. Pits for iron 

 ore have been sunk in a very ferruginous variety of the same 

 rock. The exposure, which can be traced by Itiocks upon the 

 surface, suddenh* comes to an end in a ravine, as though by a fault. 

 A tongue of sandstone blocks extends three hundred yards or 

 more down this ravine, towards the valley, in a line at right angles 

 to the line of strike. On the farther side of tlie ravine, to the 

 east, no sandstone has been found, its place being filled by the 

 usual damourite slate of the South Valley Hill. The blocks of 

 sandstone therefore make an ** L," the shorter arm of which 

 extends down the ravine. There is here an interesting example 

 of the work of erosion in carrying down these blocks to a lower 

 level. Whether or not the existence of a fault can be proved, the 

 occurrence of Potsdam sandstone at a new locality on the South 

 Valle}' Hill is well worthy of study. This formation forms the 

 North Valley Hill, but is almost totally absent on the South 

 A'alley Hill. It is found here only in a few isolated patches. Its 

 place is supplied by a greenish damourite slate. If, as is sup- 

 posed, the is^orth and South Valley Hills are opposite sides of a 

 synclinal trough which dips beneath the limestone of Chester 

 Vallc}', it is curious that the rocks of each hill are so veiy dis- 

 similar. It is important that each one of the rare exposures of 

 sandstone on the Soutli Valley Hill should be made known, and it 

 is thought that a determination of their relations to the adjoining 

 slates will greatly help to elucidate the geology of that region. 




830 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



July fi. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger. in thn (;hair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



July 13. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the (liair. 

 Six persons present. 



July 20. 

 The President. Dr. Ruschenberger. in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



July 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger. in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 

 The death of Constantine Hering, M. D. was announced. 



Fresh-water Sponges of Fairmount Park. — Mr. Potts reported 

 that he had found in a small stream within the limits of the late 

 Centennial grounds, Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, three distinct 

 species of Fresh-water Sponges, one of which appears to be un- 

 described and the others difter in important points from the pub- 

 lished descriptions. In anticipation of a more detailed paper 

 describing these and some other forms which had come under his 

 notice, he said — that one of tliese known as the common green 

 sponge of this neighborhood, resembles the European SpongiUa 

 lacusiris in its general appearance and in the shape of its skeleton 

 and dermal spiculte ; but differs in that the seed-like bodies or 

 spherulje are entirely smooth, showing no incrustation of curved 

 spined spicuhe as described in the European species. 



The second form was fii-st seen as a thin rust-colored incrusta- 

 tion, afterwards discovered to consist of spheruhx? forming a 

 continuous la^'cr. Supposing this to be new he had named it 

 provisionall}^ .S. Morgiana ; but later examinations of the living 

 sponge had convinced him that it was identical with the S. fragilis 

 of Ijcidy. 



The third was found creeping upon and around Anacharis and 

 Willow roots, matting them together and thus forming loose, ir- 

 regular masses several inches in diameter : color yellowish, light 

 or dark green, according to exposure to the light. SpheruLTp. 

 globular, light yellow or brown, rather numerous amongst the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



roots and spiculae ; covered with long birotulate spieuhe radially 

 arranged; foramen elongated into a tuhe flaring at its extremity 

 and dividing into 2 — 5 tapering, slender, curling or twisted tendrils, 

 believed to be as much as half an inch in length. The sareode 

 decomposes early in the season and most of the skeleton spicuhe 

 are then washed away ; but these tendrils hold the mass of 

 spherube attached to the roots etc. above mentioned, awaiting the 

 spring germination. For this curious species he suggested the 

 name S. tentasperma or tendril seeded. 



Dr. M. H. De Bey of Aix-la-Chapelle and Prof. Torquato 

 Taramelli of Pavia were elected correspondents. 



August 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenbkrger, in the chair 

 Sixteen persons present. 

 The death of James Ridings, a member, was announced. 



Notes on Jarosite. — Prof. George A. Konig communicated his 

 discovery of Jarosite at the " Iron Arrow Mine," in Chaffee Co., 

 Colorado. 



The mineral occurs there in seams and cavities of silicions 

 thurgite and hematite, which iron ores crop out on the steep side 

 of a Porphyry hill about GOO feet above the Arkansas River, flow- 

 ing at a distance of two miles to the south. 



The mineral appears in small, but very brilliant crystals, isolated 

 and in groups ; also as aggregations of ciystals which produce 

 crusts. It is remarkably crystalline, since no compact, or crypto- 

 crystalline masses were observed. 



The crystals are rhombohedrons (resembling cubes), modified 

 by the basal plane. The speaker had not observed as yet a crys- 

 tal of suflficient size to be accurately measured. Hardniess slighth' 

 above selenite ; color, from light amber-yellow to deep brown. 

 Perfectly transparent. Lustre of crystal faces adamantine, resin- 

 ous on the fracture. Sp. gr. = 3.144. 



The material used for "analysis consisted of the aggregations 

 ]iefore mentioned, which showed an admixture of chalcedony and 

 of brilliant, black grains of thurgite ; these could not be separatrd 

 mechanically, being too small. 



The meaJi of two analj'ses gave : 



100.80 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(-'alculated I'roiii the analysis: 



K.Fo.S^O... + 6H,0 = 89.58 



FtNH.OT (Thurgite) = 8.67 



Excess of water = 0.39 



Chalcedony (SiO,) = 2.40 



100.94 



This result may be estimated as a confirmation of Richter'n 

 analysis, which gave ta Jarosite the formula of " alunite," witli 

 which it is isomorphous. 



Thus A.lunite = K^AleS.O.,, + 6A,0 

 Jarosite = K-Fe^S^O,, + 6H,0 



The utmost care was given to the estimation of the alkalies, the 

 sulphuric acid and the water, as the question of constitution must 

 he dependent mainh' upon them. 



August 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



August 17. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled " Rhizopods in the Mosses of the Summit of 

 Roan Mountain N. C/' hy Jos. Leidy, M. D. was presented for 

 publication. 



August 31. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 

 The following wa& ordered to be printed ; 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PI£ILADELPHIA. 333 



RHIZDPODS IN THE MOSSES OF THK SUMMIT OF RDAN MOUNTAIN, 

 NORTH CAROLINA. 



HY .JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



In a trip to Roan Monntain, Mitchell Co., North Carolina, in 

 tlie early part of July, the writer was led to make some observa- 

 tions on the microscopic animal life, among the mosses on the 

 summit of the mountain. The top of Roan Mountain, at an alti- 

 tude of 636T feet, forms an extensive grass}- prairie, suitable for 

 pasture. It is adorned with broad patches of the hea^ntifnl Bhodo- 

 dendron catawbiense, and bordered with forests, chiefl}- of Firs — 

 Abies canadensis and A. Fraseri. The floor of the forests, made 

 up of brolcen granitic and gueissoid rocks and fallen timbers, is 

 thickly carpeted with a luxuriant growth of mosses, conspicuously 

 decorated at the time by the common Wood-Sorrel, Oxalis acefo- 

 *ella. Chief among the mosses, each apparently attempting to 

 outvie the others in the exuberance of its growth, were the thi-ee 

 pretty Hypu urns — H. splendens, H. cristu-castrensis, and H. tri- 

 quetrum. 



Clouds, dews, and frequent rains keep the mossy carpet more 

 or less moist or wet the greater part of the time, and it thus comes 

 to be a favorable habitation for man}' of the humbler forms of 

 animal life. The shell-covered Rhizopods abound ; and the Wheel 

 Animalcule, Rotifer vulgaris, and the Water Bear, Macrohiotvs 

 Hufelandii also find a suitable home in it. When the mosses 

 liecome more or less dry, the animalcules they shelter become 

 torpid, and then again become active on the restoration of 

 moisture. 



In water squeezed from the Il3-pnums, besides the animals just 

 indicated there were noticed a few young Anguillules, pollen 

 ■_rrains of Abies, starch grains, spores of lichens and fungi, ova. 

 vegetal hairs, etc. Few or no living Diatomes or Desmids were 

 present. 



The Rhizopods observed were as follows : 



Nebela flabelulum. — Common. Nearly circular in outline, 

 usually slightly broader than long, and commonly with a short 

 neck or rim to the mouth ; colorless or with a feeble yellowisli 

 rijit ; composed of circular cnncelli of variable size and i)ro])or- 




334 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



tions and tlegree of distinctness. Individual specimens presented 

 the following measurements.' 



a. Speciniens of equal length and breadth^ or of greater breadth 



than length. 



b. Specimens slightly longer than broad. 



21. Length 0.072, breadth 0.066, b'th of mouth or neck 0.018, 1'th of neck 0.006. 

 22,23." 0.084, " 0.078, " " " 0.018, " 0.006. 



24. " 0.09, " 0.084, " «' " 0.018, " 0.006. 



25. " 0.09, " 0.078, " " " 0.024, " 0.U06. 



In many the sarcode was contracted into a ball, encj'sted, and 

 the mouth of the shell closed with an opercle. Sarcode colorless, 

 but sometimes mingled with yellow and brown food balls ; some 

 oleaginous in a[)pearance. Mostly, a pore was readilj' distinguish- 

 able on each side of the body of the shell, about one-third the 

 distance of the length above the mouth ; and the wall of the shell 

 was observed to be sensibly thickened approaching the pore. The 

 shell was usuallj^ minutely and more or less distinctly cancellated, 

 the cancelli being circular, sometimes nearly uniform, at others 

 greath' differing in size. Occasionall}^ the cancellated condition 

 was so indistinct that the shell appeared faintl}' granular and even 

 nCarlj' structureless. 



1 The measurements are given in divisions of the millemetre. As nearly- 

 all the Rhizopods indicated are compressed forms, the measuremeuts are 

 given from their most convenient position as usually seen, that is to say, in 

 the greater breadth. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPIir A. 335 



Nebela collarib. — Occasional. Flask-like I'onn.s, with the 

 usual variations in the condition of the cancellated structure of the 

 shell ; sometimes finely punctate, but mostly with distinct circular 

 eancelli, more or less uniform or greatly varying in pro^tortionate 

 size. In several specimens the cancelli of the shell appeared to be 

 like minute lenses or spheres, and to present an external con- 

 vexity. Individual specimens measured were as follows : 



1. Length 0.06, breadth O.O06, breadth of mouth 0.018. 



0.036, «' " 0.010. 



0.030, " " 0.018. 



0.042, " " 0.0:5. 



0.042, " " 0.018. 



042, " " 0.018. 



0.048, " " 0.018. 



078, " " 0.024. 



IlYAL0ST>nENiA TiNCTA ? — One specimen only. Sarcode encNsted 

 as a ball 0.048 diameter, containing much brownish food and 

 bright yellow oil-like globules. Shell structureless, pale yellowish, 

 with a pair of pores piercing the body above the junction of the 

 neck. The specimen looked like a Nebela flahellulum. but the j\, 

 inch magnifying power showed no structure to the shell. 



[.eagth O.'M)'.), breadth 0.072, breadth of m )Utli 0,021, length of neck 0.004o. 



DiFFLUGiA GLOBULOSA. — Rare. Small forms with shells of fine 

 sand and dirt. From hemispherical to globular and with circular 

 mouth. 



1. Breadth of shell 0.06. height 0.042, breilth of mouth, O.OIX. 

 U. '• " 0.06, " 0.0 18. " '• 0.024. 



DiFFLiGi.A. CONSTRICTA. — Rare. Shell of 3-ellowish dirt and 

 sand. 



Length 0.072, breadth 0.072. 



DiFFLUGi.v .VROULA. — Rare. Shell hemispherical, brownish, in- 

 corporated with dirt and fine sand ; mouth trilobate. 



Breadth 0.132, height 0.09, breadth of mouth 0.048. 



Heleopera petricola. — Occasional. Purplish brown, with 

 variable proportions of incorporated sand. 



1. Length 0.09. breadth 0.078. breadth of mouth 0.042. 



2. " 0.096, '• 0.078, " " 0.030. 




ooC PROCEEDINGS OF Til K ACADEMY OF [1880. 



AssULT.VA SKMiNiLVM. — Soiiiowlint tVequt'iit. Of varied size aii<l 

 line; from iicaily c'oU)rless to dark brown, and mostly lighter at 

 t!ie neck, Mo:>tly empty shells; often living specimens. 



1. Length 0.05»>, breadth O.Oo ; breadth of mouth 0.009. 



2. " 0.04J, " 0.036; •' " 0.012. 



3. " 0.048, " 0.042; " " 0.012. 



4. " 0.0") t, '' 0048; •» " 0.018. 



5. " 0.072, " 0.072; " " 0.024. 



6. " 0.078, " 0.072 ; '♦ " 0.024. 



EuGLYPiiA AREOLATA, Ehr. — Small compressed spineless forms. 

 occasional. A living specimen measnred as follows : 



Length 0.06, breadth 0.048 ; breadth of mouth 0.015. 



EuGLYPiiA STRiGOSA. — Occasional. An empty shell measured : 

 Length 0.06, breadth 0.042 ; breadth of mouth 0.012. 



Trinema enchelys. — Common. Small forms of much variety, 



1. Length 0.03 , breadth 0.024. 



2, 3. «« 0.036. " 0.03. 



4, " (t.036, " 0.036. 



5. ♦' 0.042, " 0.03. 



In some positions, on dripping ledges and cliffs, from among 

 the greater profusion of H3'pnums, there grew cushion-like masses 

 of bright pea-green Sphagnum, sometimes rose tufted. Water 

 squeezed from the Sphagnum, exhibited many Diatoms, a £ew 

 Desmids, pollen of Abies, starch grains, spores, etc. It also 

 contained many llhizopods, an occasional Infusorian, a few 

 Auguillules, but no Rotifers nor Water-bears. Of Rhizopods 

 the following were observed : 



Xebela collarts. — Abundant and of much variety in shape and 

 size and in the arrangement and distinctness of the cancellated 

 structure of the shell. Compressed pyriform, or flask-shaped. 

 with oval or ovoid body and with neck of variable proportionate 

 length and breadth. Cancellated structure very variable ; mosth' 

 of circles, minute and nearly uniform, or greatly varying in size 

 among themselves or in proportion with the shell. Dead shells 

 most frequent ; in living ones observed, the sarcode mostly con- 

 tracted and inactive, often encysted ; least frequently in an active 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



locomotive condition. .Small loiins common ; giant forms few. 

 Individual specimens noti*d as follows : 



1. Length 0.078, breadth O.OD ; breadih of moutli 0.018. Compressed oval ; 

 liviug. 



2. Length 0.078, breadth 0.06 : breadth of mouth 0.018. Oval with short 

 neck. Empty shell; cancelli circular, varitble, the largest O.OOG, the smallest 

 0.003. 



3. Length 0.078, breadth 0.06 ; breadth of mouth 0.012. Oval with short 

 neck; living, active; nucleus, 0.12. 



4. Length 0.081, breadth 0.054; breadth of mouth 0.018. Empty shell, 

 with sharply defined circles, large and small, together with a few rods. 



5 Length 0.084, breadth 0.012; breadth of mouth 0.018; with neck 0.018 

 long. Empty shell, with minute circles on the neck, but unusually large in 

 proportion to the shell on the body where they ranged from 0.006 to 0.012. 



6. Length 0.084, breadth 0.048; breadth of mouth 0.018. Flask-like empty 

 shell, with minute circular cancelli 0.003 or less. 



7. Length 0.08', breadth 0-54 ;' breadth of mouth 0.012. Flask-like empty 

 shell minutely and uniformly cancellated. 



8. Length 0.084, breadth 0.05; breadth of mouth O.Olo. Oval, empty. 

 '.». Length 0.09 , breadth 0.072; breadth of mouth 0.'21. Flask-like. 



10. Length 0.096, breadth 0.078 ; breadth of mouth 0.024. Pyriform ; neck 

 0.006 long; cancelli circular, variable iu size, a few on the fundus to 0.012. 

 Sarcode an encysted ball, with yellowish oil-like food globules ; diameter of 

 ball 0.048. 



Some giant forms especially noted were as follows : 



11. Length 0.18; breadth 0.09; breadth of mouth 042. Living: shell 

 nearly replete with sarcole, colorless but containing a multitude of bright 

 yellowish and brown globules from 0.006 to 0.012. 



12. Length 0.21; breadth 0.12; breadth of mouth 0.048. Empty shell of 

 faint yellowish tint: basis of structure faintly and uniformly punctate with 

 only distinct minute circular cancelli approaching the fundus. 



13. Same size as preceding. Shell mostly of minute circular cancelli, larger 

 near the fundus and there mingled with a few square ones. Shell closed by an 

 operculum. Sarcode contracted into an oval mass 0.144 by 0.()72. 



14. Length 0.192; breadth 0.102; breadth of mouth 0.048. Shell with 

 minutely cancellated structure. Sarcode in a ball 0.084 by 0.072. 



Nebela flabellulum. — This form comparatively rare, ^liell 

 nearly circular in outline, with a short neck, mostly composed of 

 minute circular cancelli more or less nearly uniform or variable : 

 rarely of elliptical cancelli. 




H38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



1. Length O.072; broiidth 0.072; neck 0.003 long; breadth of mouth 0.009. 



2. " 0.07-2 : " 078; " 0.003 " ; " " 0.009. 

 8. " 0.G78: " 0.078; " 0.0015 " ; «' " 0.009. 

 4. " 0.0S4: '• 0.078; " 0.003 " : " '• 0.012. 



Shell with minuie elliptical caucelli. 



DiFFLUGiA CONSTRICTA. — Rare. Ouly a few specimens seen. 

 Small forms, with shell of minute sand grains and yellowish dirt. 

 Pyriform viewed from the front or back. 



1. Length 0.00 ; breadth 0.048 



2. " 0.078; '• 0.048; breadth of mouth 0.024. 



3. " 0.108; " O.lOi; breadth opposite mou.h 0.078. 



DiFFLUGiA PYRiFORMis. — Rare. Shell of dirt and fine sand. 



1. Length 084 ; breadth 0.048; breadth of neck and mouth 0.024. 



DiFFLUGiA ARCLLA. — Rare. Shell j-ellowish, incorporated with 

 more or less brownish dirt and sand. Form hemispherical ; mouth 

 trilobed. 



1. Breadth 0.132; height 0.09. 



Centropyxis aculeata. — Rare. Shell of pale brown chitinoid 

 membrane incorporated with more or less dirt and sand ; with 

 coarser grains of the latter along the course of the usually six 

 spines. Mouth oval, with a more or less sinuous border. 



1. Length 0.096; breadth 084 ; breadth of mouth 024. 



2. " 0.12 ; '• 0.096; mouth 0.03 by 0.024. 



Heleopera petricola — Occasional ; shell incorporated with 

 more or less dirt and sand, and of a purplish brown tint. 



1. Length 0.09 ; breadth 0.078; breadth of mouth 0.042. 



2. " O.108; " 0.09 ; " " 0.036. 



EuGLYPHA areolata, Ehr. — Small compressed forms, without 

 spines or other appendages. Abundant. Apparently from six to 

 fifteen teeth to the mouth of the shell. Mostly empty shells. 

 Often living specimens. 



1, 2. Length 0.042. brevdth 0.021 

 3. " 0.042, " 0.024 



4. 5. " 0.048, " 0.024 



6. " 0.048, " 03 



7. " 0.051, " 0.024 



8. " 0054, " 0.03 

 y. " 0.102, " 0.72 




IbSO.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'II I A. 339 



EoGLYi'iiA STRiGOSA. — Couipressed, hirsute forms. Occasional. 

 Usually with about ten teeth to the mouth of the shell ; scales 

 "listinct; finely hirsute all over except near the mouth. 



1. Length 0.102, breadth 0.072; breadth of moutli 0.021 : hiirs 0.003 long. 



2. " 0.108, " 0.06 ; " " 0.021 ; •' 0.012 •• 



EuGLYPHA BRACHIATA — One cmpt}' shell observed, with but one 

 divergent spine, and five or six teeth to the mouth. 

 1. LengihO.102; breadth 0.01 ; breadth of mouth 0.012 ; length of spine 0.012 



EuGLYPHA CRiSTATA. — One empty shell, with acute fundu>. but 

 without spines, and four teeth to the mouth. 



1. Length 0.51 ; breadth 0.012; breadth of mouth 0.009. 



EuGLYPiiA ciLiATA. — Compressed forms, with short spines or 

 hairs along the acute lateral borders. Rare. Nucleus 0.018. 



1. Length 0.108; breidihO.Otj; breadth of mouth 0.021 ; hairs or spines 0.012 



long. Ten teeih lo mouih of the shell. 



2. Length 0.102; breadth 0.072 ; breadth of mouth 024; spines 0.008 long. 



Nucleus of sarcode distinctly and uniformly gninular (breaking ui> 

 into spores'), 0.018 diameter. Ten or twelve teeth to mouth of the 

 shell. 



Placocist.i spinosa. — One specimen observed, living, but the 

 ample sarcode contracted and containing a transversely oval nucleus 

 with two nucleoli. 

 1. Length 0.084, breadth 0.034; breadth of mouth 0.021. Lateral spines 



short hair-like, single or in pairs, 0.O09 long. Nucleus 0.021 by O.OIS ; 



nucleoli 0.003. 



AssuLiNA SEMINULUM. — Moderately frequent ; from nearly 

 colorless to dark brown, mostlv lighter at or near the mouth. 

 Living and dead specimens observed. 



1. Length 042, breadth 0.0^6, breadth of mouth 0.012. 



" 0.012. 

 " 0.018. 

 " 0.024. 

 " 0.024. 

 •• 0.024. 



Trinema EN('HELYi> Frequciit and of varied form and size, 



though none of the largest variety observed. Usually pyrifoim ; 

 often oval ; rarely ol»ovoid; of varied proportionate length and 

 breadth, of narrowing opposite the month, and degree of oliliquity. 

 Mostly dead shells, though fietpuMit living individuals observed 

 Ranging from 0.024 to 0.072 in U-ngtli. Specimens presented tin; 

 following measurements. 




uo 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ri880. 



10. 



11. 



12. 



lo. 

 14: 

 15. 



10. 

 18. 



Length 0.024. breadth 0.015 : brea 

 «' 0.03, " 0.018; 



0.036, " 0.024; 

 5. " 0.042. " 0.03, 

 0.04o, " 0.03; 

 less spores from 0.006 to 0.000 in diameter. 



lih of mouth 0.000. Pyriform. 



0.012. Obovoid. 

 0.012. Pyriform. 

 0.012. Contained 6 color- 



0.048, 



0.051, 



0.054, 



0.054, 



0.057, 



0.00, 



0.06, 



0.072. 



0.072, 



0.03 ; breadth of mouth 0.012. 



0.36 ; 

 0.03; 

 0.036; 

 0.036 ; 

 0.03 ; 

 0.042 ; 

 0.03; 

 0.03 ; 



" 0.015. Nucleus 0.012. 



0.015. 



" 0.015. 

 Lateral view of a specimen. 



It is worthy of special remark that among the Rhizopods of the 

 sphagnum of Koan Mt., there were observed no individuals of 

 Hyaloxpheniapapilio and H. elegans, which are so common in the 

 sphagnous swamps of the eastern plains. 




1880.] natural sciences of i'liiladelphia." 341 



September 7. 



Dr. R. S. Kenderdine, in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



On large Hphene from Canada. — Dr. A. E. Foote recorded the 

 uocnrrence ofcr3'stals of sphene of unusual size in the county of 

 llenfrew, Canada, near the upper part of the navigable j^ortion of 

 the Ottawa River. The largest crystal collected weighed 23^ 

 pounds or more than twenty times as much as the largest hereto- 

 fore found. 



September 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenbercier, in the chair. 

 Twentj'-eight persons present. 

 The death of Prof. S. S. Haldeman, a member, was announced. 



(hi the Timber Line of High Mountains. — Mr. Meeiian re- 

 marked that on the tops of most high mountains we find a total 

 absence of ligneous plants. The higliest alpine vegetation con- 

 sists for the most part ot* acaulesoent perennials. Lower down 

 we may liud soiiie woody species, and often we come to dwarfed 

 forms of trees of species, which, still lower down, form forests of 

 considerable height, and which as timber trees make what is 

 known to mountain ti-avelers as the "Timber Line." Thus in the 

 mountains of Colorado, the forests commence at about TOUO feet 

 above the sea level, and continue up to about 11.000 feet, where 

 the}"^ suddenly cease, and form at that elevation what is there known 

 as the " Timber Line." On Gray's Peak he found Pinu.s ari><tata, 

 Pi7ius fie.rilis, Abies concolor., and Abies Engelmannii, Avitli 

 some willows forming the timber line. Tlie Coniferous trees 

 were probably 30 or 40 feet high, and it was interesting to 

 note that this tall timber as suddenly ceased, as if a wood had 

 been cut half away l>y a woodman's axe. But at once commencing 

 where the tall timber ceased, the same species exist as dwarf 

 stunted shrubs seldom exceeding 3 or 4 feet in height, and oltt-n 

 but a foot, though trailing widely over the gruund. In this 

 stunted condition the species woui<l often extend some llf.ecn 

 hundred feet higher up, or half way from the recognized tinilH-r 

 line to the top of the mountain. Other observers have noted 

 that the average of 11,000 feet marks the entire timber line of 

 the Rocky mountain range. 



So far as he knew this peculiar timber line has been referred 

 whollv to climatic conditions, of which temperature and moisture 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



have boon ro<xardo(l as tlio chiof olomonts in producing- the results. 

 That a(imiral)U> botanist and onorgotio collector, Dr. C C. Parry, 

 in a itapor on the Rot-ky mountain alpine region, published in the 

 "Prooeodings of tlie American Association for the Advancement 

 of Science " for 18()9, p. 241), remarks that the most satisfactory ex- 

 planation is that the so called timber line marks the extreme point 

 of minimum temperature below which no exposed phenogamous 

 plant can exist. AH that survives above this point does so by 

 submitting to a winter burial of snow, beneath which protecting 

 cover it is enabled to maintain its torpid existence. 



The great objection which this purel^^ meteorological view pre- 

 sented to Mr. Meehan's mind Avas that the dwarfed and gnarled 

 coniferae extending so many hundred feet up the mountain sides, 

 never produced seed, and we are reduced to the alternative of 

 believing either that the seeds have been carried up the mountain 

 sides in enormous quantities and to enormous distances from the 

 fruitive trees below by winds, or else that there were seed bearing 

 progenitors of these scrubby pines, beneath the tall protecting 

 branches of which the}' had their earliest stages of growth. He 

 was satisfied from subsequent observations in the mountains of 

 North Carolina, and in the White Mountains of Xew Hampshire, 

 that this last view is the correct one, — that large timber trees at 

 no very remote period extended much further up the mountain 

 sides than thej^ do now, and that they have since disappeared for 

 reasons presently to be stated, leaving onl}- the younger trees to 

 struggle on as best they may. 



Roan Mountain in North Carolina is about 6300 feet aljove the 

 level of the sea. Timber extends to its summit on some parts of 

 it, while in other parts it is destitute of timber for man}^ hundreds 

 of feet down its sides. The species on the summit is Abien 

 Frazeri^ and Ahies nigra. Oak and other trees come oecasionalh* 

 to near the top and at about 6000 feet he measured a black oak — 

 Quercus iinctoria, that was 5 feet in circumference at 3 feet from 

 the ground, and was perhaps 40 feet high. The places destitute 

 of trees were the steep declivities, — while those on which the 

 trees were growing were of a more level character. Further down 

 the mountain sides the steep inclines would be clothed wdth forest 

 growth, as well as those of a more gradual ascent. It is of the 

 summit only that the differences in inclination, presented different 

 forest aspects. But in the spaces clear of " Balsam " as the Abies 

 Frazeri is popularly known, an occasional one of good size would 

 be seen. In the close Balsam woods, both on the summit and 

 lower down the mountain sides, crops of 3'Oung plants would be 

 found under the mature trees, but, what was very remarkable, 

 there had evidently been no young trees started till the parents 

 were near maturity. A large area with trees 30 or 40 feet 

 high woidd have an undergrowth of young ones a foot or so high, 

 while other areas of younger trees, would have innumerable small 

 seedlings growing among the damp moss beneath them, and it 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIITA. 343 



was further interesting to note that in most cases the crops of 

 young plants in each area were about tlie same age in each case, 

 as if the seeds in the several hjcations ha<l all started to grow 

 together in some one particular year, and probably at no other time. 

 On the naked places, where few or no t^ees were now found, the sur- 

 face would be closely covered by a matted growth of a grass almost 

 peculiar to that region, Danlhonia compressa, but a close examina- 

 tion of the surface showed occasional tracts of deej) vegetable 

 mould which had been formed by ages of decaying Hijpnum or 

 Sphagnum moss, and the evident remains of roots, just as we now 

 find undt-r the Balsam trees, and there is no doubt from these 

 facts that these steep upper declivities were once clothed with 

 trees and mosses, to which the grass previously named succeeded. 



With these facts in mind he examined the arboreal features of 

 the White Mountains in New Hampshire. On Mount Washington, 

 which is a little over (5000 feet, the timber runs up to about 4000 

 feet ; while Mount Webster, a mountain forming the southern 

 peak of the same chain, and about 4000 feet high, has little timber 

 above 3000 feet. Clearly, climatic reasons will not account for 

 these peculiarities. On Mount Washington there is much of the 

 same character as distinguishes the forests of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains. As already noted the timber line becomes marked at about 

 4000 feet. For at least another thousand feet we meet with 

 scrubby bushes of Abies Balsamea, Abies nigra^ aiid Abies alba, 

 with some Betula papi/racea. Beyond this, and almost to the 

 summit, an occasional specimen of one or another of the conifene 

 may be seen. As noted in regard to the Colorado scrubl)y growth, 

 none of these had ever produced seed ; nor was it at all probable, 

 from a careful surve}- of the locations, that many of the areas 

 could have been seeded by the winds, however strong, bringing 

 the seeds up these mountain heights. Moreover, there were many 

 cases where there were intermediate areas clear of all scrubby 

 spruce plants, and where seeds could be bi'ougbt by winds in 

 these modern times much easier than to the heights above. 

 Besides this, it was evident that many of these dwarfed specimens 

 were of immense age. Some that he examined were certainly 

 fifty years old, though the stems at the ground were no thicker 

 than his wrist, and, trailing on the ground, occupied but 

 16 or 20 square feet of space. There seemed to be but little 

 doubt that at some time in the past Mount Wasiiington had 

 forests of conifera' at much higher elevations than at present, if 

 not perhaps clean up to the summit ; that these scrubby plants 

 now there were seedlings that had sprung up under the elder 

 ones, and that in time the older ones were destroyed, leaving the 

 small ones beneath alone to their fate. 



An examination of ditferent parts of Mount Washington shows 

 not only that this is the true explanation of the absence of good 

 timber beyond what is known as the timber line, but that the 

 same law is in progress to day as in centuries jia^t. Illustrations 




■U4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



of this are numerous. There is now a railroad running straight 

 up the mountain side from the base to the summit. Near the 

 timber line, a cut had to be made through an area covered b}- 

 niature Balsam Firs. This eut was about 8 or 10 feet deep. 

 Under the trees moss and dead roots and old tir leaves had made 

 an earthy strata of a foot, or in places, more in depth. The moss 

 was still green from the rains, melting snows, and fogs of this 

 elevated region, and sustaining the various kinds of low vegeta- 

 tion common to these alpine heights. Youug firs were springing 

 up in great abundance. But all tlie larger trees were dead, though 

 here and there might be seen a branch with a few lingering green 

 leaves. This mass of dead, standing timber occupied several acres. 

 The reason for their death was evident. The railroad cut showed 

 that the forest stood on a mass of large but loose gneiss rocks. 

 through which the waters from the two thousand feet of loose rock 

 above rushed as soon as the railroad cut was made, carrying with 

 it all the earthy- matter on which the larger trees subsisted, but 

 leaving the tough turf}' matter at the surface, on which smaller 

 trees of the same sort may live for many years, though the larger 

 ones cannot longer exist. With the death of the larger trees 

 there is, of course, an increase of light, and then the Hierochlw, 

 with other grasses and sedges, speedily take possession, holding 

 together the loose soil, and even permitting in many cases an 

 increase of the earthy layer, by holding much of the disintegrated 

 i-oek which may be washed or blown on from above. Carefully 

 examining patches of scrubby spruces above the timber line, it is 

 not uncommon to find dark patches of vegetable mould evidently 

 the remains of large trees that have been growing where now only 

 the masses of small scrubby plants exist. In some places a sharp 

 stick may be pushed down among the scrubby firs and spruces, 

 and the earth found to be but a foot or so deep over the loose 

 rock below, from which the earth has been wholly washed away. 

 Again, there are some places often nearly an acre in extent where 

 the scrubby firs are still standing, dead, from the earth having 

 been washed away from below upwards, not leaving enough for 

 even the moderate demands of these little bushes. 



In view of the facts detailed we ma}^ conclude that at the 

 elevation of these mountain chains, the lowland vegetation was 

 carried up at the same time. The summits, covered b}^ luxuriant 

 forests would present a cooler siirface to the moist clouds, and 

 there would be less condensation than on bare sun-warmed i-ocks. 

 and deep snows Avould be less frequent, and not suflicient to inter- 

 fere much with arboreal growth. But the rain would of necessity 

 carry down the earth and disintegrated rock to lower levels ; and 

 the melting snows, such as there were, would make this downward 

 progress of the soil continuous. In some mountains where the rock 

 was easily broken by frost, as in Colorado and the White Mountains, 

 it would be very difficult for the soil to hold its own against these 

 forces of gravitation ; but on more solid rock the mass of tree 




1880. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



roots protectiiifi the rock, and retaining the earth}' matter would 

 lonorer hold its own. In tlie former case with tlu'irradiial wasliinjr 

 away of the earth the larger trees will have to find a lower 

 level ; the summit condensing more moisture, and having a cooler 

 atmosphere, would form heavier massi-s of longer enduring snow, 

 and thus keep down from tall giowth the younger trees left as the 

 older and larger ones retired. They would iiave to be low bushes 

 b}' the absence of earth for vigorous growth, and remain trailing 

 bushes, through the superincumbent and long continued mass of 

 snow. 



We thus see that though a long continued mass of snow has 

 much to do in marking a timber line, that line is precedent to the 

 snowy mass. The primary cause is the gi-avitation of disinte- 

 grated rock— the movement of the hill top towards the sea. From 

 the moment the mountain reaches its highest point it commences 

 its downward march. The entire reduction of the highest to a 

 level with the plain is but a question of time. The frost and rain 

 and melting snow will do it all, and this reduction, bringing down 

 not only the earth, but cold-loving plants to warmer levels, must 

 continually change the aspects of vegetation, as well as perpetualh' 

 vary the timber line. 



In low hills as well as in high mountains the forces of gravita- 

 tion are also at work. But the sides are seldom so steep as in the 

 loftier hills, — the rains do not gather with such force nor are 

 the melting snows of near the same duration. TIutc are sudden 

 washes, but not tlu- continuous roll of the earth to the bottom. 

 In time they may exhil)it the same phenomena of the disappearance 

 of species from their summits as their loftier brethren ; but the 

 centuries here will gather much more slowly to produce a similar 

 eftect. 



In conclusion he would say brietly that the •' timber line " of 

 high mountain tops i-esults from the w'ashing down of the earth 

 from the higher elevations. 



My. Redfielp remarked that there could be no doubt that 

 intluences other than climatic (such for instance as the washing 

 away of soil, mentioned by Mr. Median) do often modify and 

 change the timl)er-line upon mountains. But he was unable to 

 accept Mr. Meehan's views as to the insignificant part plaved bv 

 climatic causes, and still held them to be the prevailing factor in 

 theprol)lem. Dr. Parry's explanation by the weight and de[)th of 

 winter snows might not always be the correct one, but snow and 

 ice must be very important agents, and Mr. K. thought that in 

 considering climate, we should havt- n-gard not merely to tlie 

 present period, but to past great secular pi-riods. He then referred 

 to the glacial age, when not only the White Mountains, but all 

 New England was capped with a vast ice-slu'et, whieli under secular 

 changes gradually retreated, U-aving only the mountain tops 

 covered. The slow retreat of the glacial covering was followed 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OB" [1880. 



by the advance of fitting arboreal vegetation, \intil a point was 

 reached when tlie present climatic conditions were such as to 

 limit any hiaher advance of the trees. 



September 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



Bone Caves of Pennsylvania. — Fi'of. Letdy remarked that in 

 the early part of August, in company with Dr. T. C. Porter of 

 Easton, he had visited Hartman's Cave, in the vicinit}' of Strouds- 

 burg, Pa. They had been invited by Mr. T. Dunkin Paret, of 

 that place, who had recently undertaken the exploration of the 

 cave, and had obtained from it un interesting and important col- 

 lection of animal remains, which had been submitted to Prof. 

 Leidy's examination. 



The cave is situated about five miles from Delaware Water 

 Gap in a ridge which separates Cherry Valley from the valleys of 

 the Pocono and McMichael's Creeks. The ridge is an anticlinal 

 fold of the Helderberg or Upper Silurian limestone, and the cave, 

 occupies the axis of the fold and opens in the face of a cliff formed 

 b}^ a cross section of the ridge. An accumulation of debris forms 

 a slope at the base of the cliff", and above the debris and just 

 below the arching roof of the cave, a low passage way has long 

 been known into which adventurous boys would creep. 



Mr. Paret commenced the exploration by having a passage dug 

 through the debris to the entrance of the cave, and then extended 

 the trench Avithin the latter for upwards of a hundred feet, and to 

 a depth suffi(;ient to walk erect. At one place within the cave the 

 digging was carried to the rock floor. It would thus appear that 

 the cave is occupied by a bed of clay about 10 feet in depth. On 

 this is a thin layer of stalagmite and on this again about a foot of 

 black friable earth mingled with animal and vegetal I'cmains. 



No remains have been found imbedded in the claj' nor on the 

 rock}' floor in the pit dug through the latter. 



Prof. Leidy supposed that during the glacial period, a stream 

 of water, from melting snow and ice at a higher level, had made 

 a passage way through the fissured limestone of the antielinalaxis 

 and had left in it the abundant clay deposit. When the cave 

 ceased to be a water course the layer of stalagmite was formed 

 and subsequently the more frialile earth accumulated from mate- 

 rials, such as dust and leaves, blown in and mingled with the 

 remains of animals, occuj)ants of the cave, and of their food. The 

 recess of the cave above the clay floor api)ears to have been too 

 small to lie inhabited by the larger carnivorous animals or man, 

 and therefore no large entire bones of these have been found in 

 the ossiferous stratum. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



The remains thus far discovered arc of such interest as to 

 encouraije Mr. Parct to continue further exphjration Most of 

 these collected to the i)resent time were exhibited by Prof. Leidy, 

 and consist of the following: 



Numerous fragments and splinters of limb bones of smaller and 

 large animals, many or most of which exhibit the marks of being 

 gnawed, whether Ity rodents or small carnivores is somewhat un- 

 certain. A few also show the marks of canine teeth, of medium 

 sized carnivores. Some of tlie splinters pertain to such large and 

 strong bones as to render it questional>le whether they were pro- 

 duced by even our largest carnivores, and probably ai*e the rem- 

 nants of human feasts, in which the bones were crushed to obtain 

 the marrow. Numerous l)ones and fragments of others of the 

 smaller and smallest animals. These include especially limb 

 bones, and lower Jaws, and less fre(iuently skulls, fragments of 

 others and vertebrie. Many of these are also gnawed, wliilc many 

 are not. 



The fragments of larger bones may be supposed to have been 

 conveyed into the cave by small carnivores. A few pieces of bone 

 are somewhat charred ; and a small fragment of a lower jaw, con- 

 taining a molar tooth, of the Bison, also apparently exhibits 

 the marks of tire. This probably is a remnant from a human 

 feast, which may lia\e been carried into the cave by some small 

 gleaner. 



All the bones and fragments together amount to about half a 

 bushel. Most of them pertain to animals of a kind still living, 

 though some of tliese no longer belong to the fauna of our state, 

 and a few of the remains are those of extinct animals. How far 

 the remains of ditlerent species are cotemporary is uncertain, 

 though it is most i)robabl(' tliat they were introduced through a 

 long succession of years from the time following the ghutial period. 



Tin.' remains of extinct animals consist of an incisor tooth and 

 half a dozen molars of the great rodent Gastomides ofiiornsis, 

 and portions of the upper and lower jaw, with teeth, of a young 

 Peccary, the l>icoti/les nasKtiis, i)reviously known only from a 

 single fragment of an upper jaw, discovered in Indiana, (Extinct 

 Mammalia of North America, 385, pi. xxviii, tigs. 1, 2. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sc, vii, 1869). 



The remains of animals no longer living in Pennsylvania are as 

 follows : 



IJones and teeth of the Caribou or Woodland Reindeer, 

 Itangifer caribou. 



A fragment of the lower jaw containing the last molar tooth, of 

 the Bison,/?, anicricaniis. 



Man}' lower jaAv halves, and other bones and teeth of the Wood- 

 rat, Neotoma Jloridana. Most of these are of comi)aratively large 

 size, and of the eharacter of similar remains referred Ity Prof. 

 Baird to a supposed extinct species, with the name of Neotoma 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



magister, (U. S. P. R. E. Exp. & Surveys— Zoology, viii, 1857, 

 498). 



Remains of other mammals are as follow : Lynx, Felis cana- 

 densis; Wolf, Canis lupus; Gray Fox, Vidpes virginianus ; 

 Skunk, Mephitis mephttiea ; Weasel, Futorius erwineus ; Raccoon, 

 Procijon lotor ; Mole, Seal ops aquaticus ; Dusky Bat, Vespertilio 

 fuscus: Little Brown Bat, V. suhuJatus ; Woodchuck, Arctomgs 

 monax : Porcupine, Erethizon dorsafus : Beaver, Castor fiber ; 

 Musk rat, i'766'/" zihethicus : Gray Sciuirrel, /S'eu/rus Caroline nsis; 

 Ground Squirrel, Tamias striatus : Gray Rabbit, Le]>us si/lrati- 

 cus ; Meadow Mouse, Arvicola riparius ; White-footed Mouse, 

 Hesperomys leucopus ; Deer, Cervus virginianus : Elk, Cervus 

 canadensis. 



Among the remains, none have been identilied as positively 

 pertaining to our domestic animals, unless, perhaps, a pair of 

 specimens are to be referred to this category. The specimens are 

 the complete isolated first and second large molars of a foetal or 

 new-born Horse I 



The collection further contains numerous bird bones, chiefly of 

 the Wild Turkey, Meleagris gallopavo ; some of turtles, the Box 

 Turtle, Cistudo clausa, the Snapper, Chelydra serpentina, etc.; 

 and others of several species of snakes. 



In the same stratum were also found a number of shells of 

 mollusks, chiefly Helix albolabris, H. alternata^ and H. tridentata. 

 Also a valve of Unio complanatus. 



Of vegetal remains there were a few small fragments of charcoal, 

 and many seeds, consisting of those of the Dogwood, Gornus 

 Horida, Pig-nut, Carya porcina, and Walnut, Juglans nigra. 



The human remains are of an interesting character. One is a 

 large stone celt of hard brown slate, obtained from the bone earth 

 some distance within the cave. There are five bone awls, several 

 of which exhibit marks of gnawing. Some of these were found 

 in the cave, and others in the outside debris. An implement con- 

 sists of the prong of an antler worked so as to be barbed on one 

 side, and was probably used as a needle for making nets. 



A small implement of bone, resembles in its present condition 

 a crochet needle such as is now employed by ladies in making 

 worsted work. It is much gnawed awa}^ on one side, and looks 

 a5> if it may have been like an ordinary needle with a perforation, 

 and this now rendered incomplete from the gnawing. 



Another implement is a fish-hook worked out of bone. 



Such bone implements are among the rarest of human relics in 

 our portion of the country. 



Another remarkable relic is a cone shell bored through the axis 

 as a bead. The shell is a marine species, Genus tornatus, found 

 on the western coast of Central America. Its presence among the 

 cave remains, would indicate an extended intercourse among the 

 inhabitants of early times. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES oF I'lUI.A I»EM>M I A. 340 



The investigation of the interesting coUeetion of remains seeured 

 })V Mr. Paret, had led Prof. Tj. to exjiinine a small coUcction of 

 l)on(!s in tlie Museum of th(' Academy, whicli had been i)resented 

 upwards of thirty years ago, as a sam})le of many of the same 

 kind discovered in Durham Cave, Bucks Co., Pa. The cave 

 appears to have; since ])i'eii obliterated in the (|uairying of lime- 

 stone. At the time of the presentation of the specimens (jf bones 

 they were recognized as pertaining to existing species of animals 

 and were therefore regarded as of little interest, though fortu- 

 nately they have ])een i)reserved. 



I'rof. Leidy remarked that these bones were of the same charac- 

 ter as those of Hartman's Cave, and he had distinguished among 

 them the following : 



The Bhick Bear, Ursus americanus : Raccoon, Skunk, Gray 

 Fox, Deer, Moose, Alee amen'enniis ,- Woodland Reindeer, Bison, 

 Gray S<piirrel, Rabbit, Beaver, Muskrat, Porcupine, Woodchuck, 

 Woodrat, Wild Turks}', Box Tortoise, Snapper, Snake, Sturgeon, 

 and Cattish. 



The examination of these collections show that the exploration 

 of small caves may not only prove of ethnograi)hic value, liut 

 serve to give us information relative to the early fauna of the 

 country. Thirt}^ years ago Prof. Baird gave an account of the 

 exploration of some bone caves in this State (Proc. Am. Assoc, 

 11, 1849, 352). He refers to a vast accumulation of remains in 

 one of the caves, and remarks that the number of species of mam- 

 malia found is twice that of present existing species in Pennsyl- 

 vania. It is to be regretted that no further account has yet l)een 

 given of the species to wliich the remains belong. 



Dimorphic Floirers in Houstonia. — Mr. Tiios. Meehan remarked 

 that Howers dimorphic in their sexual character were well known. 

 Generall}' there was little ditference in the corolla between the 

 short styled or long styled flowers, but in Hou.^toiiia r<rrulea, Z., 

 the long st3'led form was accomi)ampanied b}' a thick tube, while 

 the tube in the short styled foini was not more than half the 

 diameter of the other. In this species of HoKstonia the anthers 

 were placed on a ledge which Avas at the base of the tube in the 

 long styled form. In the short styled form the anthers were 

 brought to the mouth of the corolla without anv lengthening of 

 filaments, but by the bringing up of this ledge on which the 

 anthers are placed. The position of the anthers at the mouth or 

 at the base of the tube, was in fact decided by the modification of 

 the form of the corolla tube. This had been ex])lained in tin- 

 first series of "Flowers and Ferns of the United States." In m 

 recent examination of llonsfonin ficrpi/Ili/nlia, Mx., on the top of 

 Rokn Mountain in North Carolina, Mr. Meehan found precisely 

 the same characters in that species. On the same mountain 

 Houstonia jnirpurea, L., abounds, and also has a similar st-xual 

 dimorphism, but in^this case the elevation of the anthers is due 




350 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



to the lengthening of the stamens :uul the form of the corolla-tube 

 is the same in both sexual forms. The number of plants repre- 

 senting each sexual form is about ecpial. In a handful of plants 

 gathered at rauilom tliere were of J/dii.^lonia scrpi/lli/oiia thirteen 

 with long styles and sliort stamens, and eleven with short styles and 

 the anthers in tlie mouth of the tube. Of Houstonia ]>urparea 

 there were thirteen with long styles to fourteen with short ones. 

 An interesting fact in connection with these sexual differences is 

 that the dimorphism seenu>d to be AvhoUy in the shortening of the 

 style or iilaments, and did not seem to effect injuriously the 

 anthers or stigma. Both forms seemed to be equally fertile. 



In answer to a question by Mr. Redfield, Mr. Meehan said there 

 did not appear to be any intermediate forms. The stigma or the 

 antliers were either exactly at the throat of the flowers, or exactly 

 at the base. In regard to cross fertilization the long styled would 

 be in the best position for receiving pollen from foreign flowers, 

 but the short styled one would more readily receive its own. As 

 cross and self-fertilization had an e(iual advantage he would infer 

 that the dimorphism had little reference to fertilization as a final 

 cause. 



Cleisfogannj in Oxalis AcetoseUa, L. — Mr. Meehan observed 

 that under the forests of Abies Frazeri, on Roan Mountain, North 

 Carolina, early in August Oxalis Acetosella was abundantly in 

 flower. 



In a large numlier of cases examined he could find no traces of 

 any disposition to produce seed vessels, but pushing out beneath 

 the soil or near the surface were numbers of cleistogene flowers, 

 from which, in all probability, seeds would be produced in abun- 

 dance. 



Most plants which produced cleistogene flowers, also produced 

 the usual open corolla bearing flowers at one time or another in 

 the season, and it had been suggested that this bright petalled 

 condition was for the purpose of attracting insects, and thus give 

 the species some chance to escape from the evils which cleis- 

 togam3^, or close-breeding is supposed to involve. It is worthy 

 (jf note that no day insects were noted to visit the flower of the 

 Oxalis blooming in these dark fir forests, though nocturnal ones 

 might supi)ly the deficiency. Mr. Meehan remarked, however, 

 that no rule could be deduced from single observations, or obser- 

 vations repeated in the same localities, as the behavior of 

 plants and inse(;ts varied with circumstances. The Oxalis might 

 not l)e cleistogene, might be visited by insects, and tlie open 

 flowers might be fertile elsewhere. He referred in illustration to 

 Araphicarpsea monoica^ Nutt., which near Philadelphia sometimes 

 produced no seeds from the petaliferous flowers, while at other 

 times these flowers were remarkably fertile. Again, all his exam- 

 inations in the locality named had resulted in finding that the 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILAI>ELI'iriA. 351 



petal-bearing flowers were as jierfectly fertili/ced in the unexpanded 

 corollas as were the cleistogene flowers. But lie was prepared to 

 expect different results elsewhere. 



September 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



The following pa]iers were presented for publication in the 

 Journal : 



" The Parasites of the Termites," by Jos. Leidy, M. D. 



" Remarks on Bathygnathus liorealis," by Jos. Leidv, M. D. 



October 5. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty -two persons present. 

 The death of James C. Fisher, M. D., a member, was announced. 



Sexual Variation in Gaatanea Americana^ Michx. — Isaac C. 

 Martindale stated he had recently visited Pitman Grove, Glou- 

 cester Co., Xew Jersey, in order to examine some chestnut trees 

 growing there, and remarked that it was well known there are 

 but two species of chestnut trees in this country, tlie cliiiKpiaiMn, 

 Casfanea piimila, found occasionally in Xew Jersey, and aliund- 

 antly furtlier south, and the common chestnut, Casfanea Ameri- 

 cana. The chinciuapin attains the heiglit here of ten to twelve 

 feet, ])eing a shrub rather than a tree. In Maryland. Virginia and 

 North Carolina, it often reaches four times that heiglit. and be- 

 comes nearly a foot in diameter. It is from those States that 

 most of the chinquapins found in our markets come. The burs 

 contain but a single nut, and it quite small, but as a cliister of 

 five or six together is not unfrequent, nearly as many chin<|uapins 

 maj' be foun<l on a branch, as eliestnuts on the common ciiestnut 

 trees. The leaves of the dwarf chestnut, as it is sometimes called, 

 are wooll}- underneatii, even in their mature condition, while on 

 the other they l)e('ome green on both sides as they reacli full size. 



A jieculiar feature in tiie flowering of the eljestnut, namel v. that 

 the trees bear two sets of flowers, was pointed out bv 'IMiomas 

 Meehau, of tiie (Idrdener's Mon/hlif, a close observer of veti:etalile 

 growtlis, more than a year ago. His oltservations are recorde<l in 

 tiie Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Pliila- 

 delphia, for tht' year ISTO. It may not be dillicult for anv one to 

 recall the manniM- of the intloresence. whic-h consists of the 




852 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



flowers growing on a stem, botanically called a spike, from four 

 to six inches in length, there being from thirty to sixt}' flowers 

 together. These come from buds in the axils of the first leaves 

 of the season, and are comj^osed entirely of staminate (male) 

 flowers. The}' are very odorous when in full bloom, and often so 

 abundant as to give the trees a wliite appearance when seen at a 

 distance. As soon as tliese flowers fade, which is in a few days, 

 a disarticulation takes place close to the branch, and the spike 

 falls to tlie ground. About ten days later, a second flowering 

 takes place, these spikes coming from the \atev axillary buds of 

 the season, and instead of l»eing all staminate as in the first in- 

 stance, at the base of the sjiike will be found one, sometimes two, 

 rarely more, pistillate (female) flowers. These are fertilized by 

 the staminate flowers that are in blossom at the same time ; the 

 staminate part of the spike falls away after flowering, but the pis- 

 tillate part remains attached to the branch, and developes into a 

 bur, containing from two to five or six nuts. What may be the 

 use of the first set of blossoms, has not j'et dawned upon the 

 mind of man ; it would seem a great waste of energy to provide 

 for such an abundance without a purpose, but the prodigality of 

 nature is visible in numerous other instances as well. 



The A'ariety of forms of the nut was greater in the locality re- 

 ferred to than he had ever seen before. One ti'ee was partic^^larly 

 attractive, the shape of the bur being exactly pyriform instead of 

 globular ; its chestnuts, of course, corresponding somewhat in 

 shape, being long and slim. 



Near the southern line of the tract was found one tree, and 

 afterwards in another part a second tree, which will require special 

 notice. The former was about twenty feet high and six inches in 

 diameter, while the other was at least seventy-five feet in height, 

 and more than two feet in diameter at the base, a very wide 

 spreading and thrifty looking tree. In these, the later blossoms 

 referred to, instead of being part staminate and part pistillate, 

 have been all pistillate, consec^uently were succeeded b}' burs all 

 along the spike, numbering in those counted from fifty to sixt}^ 

 together, and hanging from the branches like bunches of grapes. 

 Ever}^ branch of the tree that bore any at all, had them of this 

 character, so that there were doubtless hundreds if not thousands 

 of them. An important point is here manifested. These flowers 

 being all pistillate, and the staminate ones (the first blossoms re- 

 ferred to) having fallen, there was nothing to fertilize them, con- 

 sequently they could not attain much size nor develop chestnuts 

 within the bur, except that rarely the first or second nearest the 

 base contained three or four very small nuts. These nuts, how- 

 ever, were without germs. 



He had been unable to find any record of such an occurrence in 

 this country before, but Dr. Masteis records it as having been 

 noted in France. The superintendent of the grove to whom be- 

 longs the credit of first detectijig these trees, could not say 




Prnc. A N. S. Phil. 1880 



Plate XI 



«^ y^S^ 



T. Sinclair & Sciv lii'.h PWad« 



Simia Satyrus. L, 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA.. I88Q 



PL. XI 



CHAPMAN, ANATOMY OF ORANGOUTANG. 





'ROC. A. N. 8. PHILA,, 1880. 



PL. Xi!l. 



CHAPMAN, ANATOMY OF ORANG 





Proc A >].S Phil -1880, 



pi p^fp Tiy 



Chapman, An alo my ol Oarriiig ui-dug. 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA., 1880. 



PL. XV. 



CHAPMAN. ANATOMY OF ORANG OUTANG. 





PROC. A. N. S. PHiLA.. !880. 



3| , X\ 



CHAPMAN. ANATOMY (IF PHANnOiiTANC. 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA.,l88n, 



Pl.Xvi 



CHAPMAN, ANATOMY OF ORANG OUIANC 





PROC, A. N. 8, PHILA.. f880. 



PL XVIH. 



aJ^>^IZ. 



BARBEGK ON LEMNA. 





1880.] NATIHAL SCIENCES OF PHI LAPEI.PIII A. 353 



whether in ]>ast years they had borne Iturs in this manner or 

 not. 



It will he remembereil that occasionally in a field of corn the 

 tassel, which is the staminate (male) flower, has a number of 

 grains of corn intermixed. These grains come from pistillate 

 (female) flowers, occurring among the staminate ones; thus it 

 may be observed that our chestnut tree is not the oidy instance 

 of deviation from the regular laws of development. It has Vu-en 

 argued that a want of nutrition will account for this and similar 

 instances, but the healthy appearance and vigorous growth of 

 the trees in (piestion is not such that a lack of nutrition can well 

 apply. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that lie believed instances of 

 the changes of flowers normally of one sex to the otlier, were oc- 

 casionally met with, though he could not refer to many without 

 further thought or investigation, but it occurred to him just then 

 that it was not unusual for some' normally male spikes in Carex 

 to have female flowers among them. He had himself seen well 

 developed ovariums among the anients of Poptilus alba, and the 

 case of female flowers among the male catkins of willows, was 

 well known to teratologists. Reference had been made to his 

 })apers on sex as influenced by nutrition. Ilis view of sex. as 

 well known, was that in the earlier stages, between the cessation 

 of vegetative growth and reproductive growth, a vegetable cell 

 might lie eitlier male or female, and that the power of that cell to 

 assimilate nutrition, involved the (piestion of sex. If a full sup- 

 ply was received, the female form resulted; if limited, tiie male 

 was produced. In most cases this assimilative power influenced 

 only the branches or cells in the immediate vicinity of the 

 flowers. There might be no diflerence in the cells of the whole 

 plant in a general way to avail themselves of a full supply of 

 nutrition. lie did not know that there was greiiter vegetative 

 strength in the plant of Maize, which bore some females among 

 the "tassels'' or males, tiian there was in the normal plant. 

 There certainly was no diflerence in the vegetative strength 

 of plants of separate sexes in many classes of plants. IJut 

 there were instances which proved that the whole individual 

 l)lant was influenced by laws of nu'rition when the (piestion 

 of sex was involved. The female lleni]). the female Spinage, 

 the female Croton, when the plants were wholly bi-sexual, wi-re 

 cases he could readily call to mind where vegetative vigor favored 

 tiie whole ])lant. 



The common Anihroxia (irfi-inisifejolia . which often grows so 

 thickly over cultivated fields as to ai)pear as a regidar farn) 

 crop, each plant fighting for nutrition with its lu-ighltor. pro- 

 duces almost wholly male blossoms ; the few females are found 

 at the base of the male spikes. Hut when we go to the maize or 

 the potato fields, where the plants are few .ind well fitl. wi' may any 

 24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OV THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



timo fnul plants which have a groat abundance of female flowers, — 

 indeed, sometimes plants which are wholly female. 



In the case of these chestnuts he would not say it was a want 

 of nutrition whii'h made these normally male flown' rs become fe- 

 male. That was not his view of the case. On the contrary', it 

 was that better initritive advantages prevailed to influence the 

 female sex, and these long si)ikes of chestnut fruit proved the 

 tact rather than interposed an objection. It was a simj^le and 

 uncontroverted fact that these young chestnuts were being 

 nourished, were imbibing nutrition, wdiile if they had been nor- 

 mal male flowers, they wn)uld have been de:ul months ago. It 

 was evident to the senses that nutrition was in the end involved, 

 and we only had to consider at what point of early cell life its 

 influence was felt. The old idea would probably be that the 

 question of nutrition followed the " fiat " which made sex, while 

 his views deduced from the numerous facts he had jiublished on 

 the question, were that nutrition, in its various phases, w^as itself 

 the law-maker. As to the greater power behind this, which 

 decreed that this should be the law, and that the law^ should pro- 

 duce such even divisions in the proportion of the sexes, it was 

 another question. He only claimed that his discoveries had 

 brought us a step nearer to this greater cause. 



Note. — I have since learned through an old resident in the vicinity, that 

 the hxrge tree has borne such burs for many years, and that it is known 

 throughout the neighborhood as the "he " tree. — I. C. M. 



October I'i. 

 The President, Dr. RrscHENnKiKiEU, in the chair. 

 Thirty -five persons^ i)resent. 



October 19. 

 Dr. K. S. Kendekdine in the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing the 

 following papers in the Journal of the Academj' : — 



" The Parasites of the Termites," by Jos. Leidy, M. D. 



" Remarks on Bathygnathus orientalis," by Jos. I^eidy, M. D. 




1880. j natural sciences of philadelphia. 355 



October 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the ehair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



The deaths of Dr. Chas. II. liudd :iiid of Joshua Lippincott, 

 members, were announced. 



Samuel R. Kniglit, M. D., and Rev. Wn). F. C. Morsell were 

 elected members. 



Novembkk 2. 



The President, Di'. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



Rain Trees. Note on Yucca gloriom — Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 referred to a branch of Yucca glorioaa, exhibited a few evenins;s 

 ago, taken from a plant growing in his garden, and which had 

 flowered during September, the usual period for blooming near 

 Philadelphia. ^Valking through his garden with Mr. Isaac C. 

 Martindale, the latter had called his attention to moisture whicrh 

 covered the whole outer surface of the flowers, and collected in 

 drops at the drooping apices of each leaf of the perianth. The 

 plant was within a few days of going wholly out of bloom, but 

 during these few days the exhibition of moisture continued, and 

 the ai)pearance of the leaves beneath showed that the dropping of 

 liquid had been going on for some time, and perhaps during the 

 whole flowering season. There was no perceptil)le sweetness in 

 the li(piid. but the presence of ants indieated that it might possi- 

 lily have a slightly saccharine character, though not sensible to 

 the human tongue. It was diflieult to decide whether this liquid 

 was an exudation from the leaves of the perianth or was simply 

 an exercise of the power of condensing moisture in the atmo- 

 sphere which some plants possessed, notably the ritheccJohium 

 .S'o7>m??, Benth., famous as the " Rain-tree '' of Peru,whieh watered 

 its own roots by the moisture condensed from the atmosphere, 

 thus enabling the tree to live in almost rainless regions, if the 

 reports of travelers are to be fully credited. He hoped to make 

 further oltservations on the Yucca another vear. 



Novemhkk *.), 



Tlu' I'risidi-nt. Dr. lluscnENHKiitiKK, in tiir chair. 



Twenty-four i)ersons pri'sent. 



The resignation of Mr. (Jeo. Vau.x as a mnnlier of Coimril was 

 read and accepted. 




356 proceedings of thk academy of [1880. 



November 16. 

 The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fortj'-two persons present. 



The death of Alexander Wilcocks, M. D., a member, was an- 

 nounced. 



The following was unanimously adopted : 



Besohrd — That the thanks of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia be presented to Mrs. Isaac Hays for Waugh's 

 excellent portrait of the late President, Isaac Hays, M. D., whose 

 labors and influence during more than sixty years contributed 

 largely to promote the interests of the society. 



Dioecism in Andromeda Catesbsei, Walter. — Mr. Tiios. Meehan 

 remarked that in 1867 he had reported to the Academy the 

 ditt'cism of Epigxa^ and he believed this had stood so far the 

 only case of unisexualit}^ reported in the whole of the large order 

 Ericacete. He said he had now to add another in Andromeda 

 Gatesbsei of Walter, of which he exhil)ited specimens gathered last 

 year on the Catawba River, in North Carolina. In the course of 

 many da3's' journeyings he had the opportunity of examining num- 

 erous plants in many different districts, and they were all either 

 wholly sterile or wholly fertile in separate plants, as in the speci- 

 mens exhibited. Occasionally, as often seen in did'cious plants, 

 a few capsules would be found on the sterile plants, but he could 

 not say whether the seeds in them were perfect. 



Mr. Redfield inquired whether Mr. Meehan had examined the 

 flowers, and found intermediate stages of development in the 

 sexual organs 't 



Mr. Meehan replied, that the i)lants were out of flower Avhen 

 observed ; that it was- the abundant fertility in some plants, and 

 absolute sterility in others that had attracted his attention. From 

 the remains of the few faded flowers he could find on the plants 

 the stamens appeared perfect on the staminate plant, with no trace 

 of pistil or ovarium, while in the fertile plants no trace of stamens 

 could be found about the remains, though it is probable from 

 analogy in EpUjfxa^ these organs in the fresh flowers would be 

 found to exist in a rudimentary state. 



On Frei^h-water Sponges. — Mr. Potts, continuing the subject of 

 American forms of fresh-water sponges treated of some weeks ago, 

 said that the number of sijecies noticed during the few months in 

 which they had claimed his attention gave some reason to believe 

 that the Order Spongida has many more representatives in our 

 fresh waters than has been generally supposed. 




1880.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



On :i foniuT occasion ho had fk'scrih<-d throe species of Sjtonrj- 

 illa from a small stream near Philailolphia, one of which, then 

 named S. ti'nlasperma, but whicli he now prefi-rred to call .S. 

 tenoHperma^ exhibited features so exceptional as almost to claim 

 for it generic distinction. 



He had since found the S. f rat/ His of Leidy ])Ientifully in the 

 Schuylkill river below the dam. (Leidy's original locality), and 

 above the dam a lacustrine form differing from that before allud»Ml 

 to. A ver}' slender green species creeping along stems of sphag- 

 num, etc., had been received from a swamp near Absecom, N. J. 

 As it appeared to be entireh' without spined spicuhe of either 

 class, he proposed for it the name .S. aspatosa. 



From the Adirondack lakes a beautiful species, believed to be 

 identical with S. stagyialiit, Dawson, had been received through 

 the kindness of Prof. H. Allen. Another lacustrine form which 

 yet is not (juite S. lncu>tfris, was brought from the lake near Cats- 

 kill Mountain House by Professors Cope and Hunt. Its status 

 has not been fully determined. 



From the cellar of an old ruin at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania, he 

 had obtained four species, all of which appeared to be new. These 

 were all thin, creeping or encrusting sponges, three of them of 

 the birotulate t3'pe, brietly described as follows : 



S, argxjrospernia — seed body or sphivruUv. large, silver-white, 

 densely covered with radial spicuhe, the shafts of which are long, 

 stout, with numerous long spines, straight or curved ; the rotula? 

 at each end being replaced by 1-4 strong recurved hooks. 



S. repens — found creeping over the stems and leaves of Pota- 

 mogeton ; sphaTuhe also closely covered with spicuhe. shorter and 

 more slender than those of the preceding species ; their shafts 

 nearly smooth, the rays of the rotulas six, eight or more, uniformly 

 incurved like the ribs of an umbrella. 



*S. astrosperma — thesplueruhe have the appearance of Itoing much 

 smaller than in either of the former species, which is i>robably du»- 

 to the fact that the birotulate spicuhe surrounding the real cap- 

 sules are very short ; the length of the shatl being less than the 

 diameter of the rays. They are rather sparsely scattered over 

 the surface of the nearly transparent sphere, suggesting the name 

 star-seeded. 



The remaining form is considered a variety of S. fragilis, and 

 called viinuta ; sphu'ruhv much smaller than in the type species, 

 the dermal and superincumliont spicuhe torniinated by sharp jioints, 

 while in the otlu'r they are universally truncate or roundeil. 



A more particidar descrijjtion with nicasureuK'Uts, etc., is in- 

 tended. 



Mr. Kzra T. Cresson was elected a member of Council, to till 

 the vacancv caused bv the resiiination of Mr. (um>. \':uix. 




358 proceedings of the academy of [1880. 



November 23. 

 The President, Dr. Rusciienber(1EH. in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



November 30. 

 The President, Dr. RuscHENBER<iKR, in the cliiiir. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



Note on the Seed-vessels of Wistaria — Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 remarked that most persons knew that special temperatures were 

 required to insure the gevmination of various seeds. The com- 

 mon chickweed germinated at a little above tVeezing point, while 

 one of *70° was required by most palms. Heat and moisture had 

 also a varying influence on the opening of seed-vessels, some 

 requiring more or less than others. lie exhibited some seed- 

 vessels of Wistaria sinensis and Wistaria frutesce as ^ to illustrate 

 the point. A box, four inches deep, with some seed-vessels of 

 Chinese Wistaria was placed on a shelf in a cool room. A fire hap- 

 pened to be made in the room and kept up all night, and the next 

 morning the capsules had burst, and scattered the seeds and open 

 vessels about the room. So great was the force of the exjjansion 

 that some seeds were projected ten feet from the box. One large 

 seed-vessel had been lifted before opening by one or more beneath, 

 over the four-inch side of the box, and had fallen on the ground 

 at least two feet away from the box in a horizontal line. The few 

 that had been thrown on to the floor by the explosion of their 

 companions did not open, owing to the difference in the temjiera- 

 ture of the floor from that of the Shelf. Five seed-vessels of each of 

 the two species were then placed together on the shelf, where the 

 temperature of the atmosphere was about 45°. After four days 

 they were examined. The American species had all opened, but 

 without expelling the seeds, which were still attached to the car- 

 pel ; but those of the Chinese Wistaria were still unojiened. The 

 Chinese Wistaria required a much higher temperature to open the 

 capsules than the American, though it might be that h^^grometri- 

 cal conditions would vary the exact degree required. 



Mr. Martindale observed that the seed-vessels of the Chinese 

 Wistaria were much more indurated and rigid than the American 

 species, and required more force to open them. He had noted 

 that such hard seed-vessels alwa3^s exerted a greater projectile 

 power when opening. 



C. S. Turnbull, M. D., and J. M. Anders, M. D., were elected 

 members. 




1880.] natural sciences of i'll i lauelimiia . 359 



December 7. 

 'I'lie Piesideut, Dr. Ku8<'Hkni{ki!i;kk. in tlie i'!i;iii-. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



December 14. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger. in the ohair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " On some Lower Eocene Muliusca from Clarke 

 Co., Alabama, with some points as to the stratigraphical position 

 of the beds containing them,'' by Angelo Ilcilprin. was presented 

 for pul)lieation. 



The Phalam/ns of Bats. — Dr. Allen, in reviewing the m:inner 

 after whieh the phalanges in mammalia are ennnicrated. spoke of 

 the propriety of including the terminal eart'Iaginons tip to the 

 fingers, present in many bits, in the series of phalanges. 



Authors do not hesita'e in naming the terminal cartilage to the 

 second finger in Rhlnopoma a phalatix. nor should they, Dr. Allen 

 held, hesitate in so including the terminal segments in other genera. 

 It is interesting to observe tiiat in M^.lossns perotis the terminal 

 joint in the second finger is bony, and anchylosed to the first 

 phalanx. If this plan of numl»ering the phalanges in bats be 

 accepted, from one to three joints are present in all the fingers. 

 The position taken by recent writers that the Phyllostomidiv are 

 distinguished from otlier families by tlie presence of the third 

 phalanx to tiie third finger cannot be sustained, since this phalanx 

 can be counted in other families, the terminal joint, however, re- 

 maining in them cartilaginous. 



December 21. 

 The President. Dr. RuscHENBEiuiER. in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



Note on a new Northern Cutting Ant. Atta seplentrionalis. — 

 Dr. McCooK remarked that he had tiie pleasure of announcing 

 an interesting discovery of a species of cutting anl upon the 

 eastern central coast of the State of New Jersey. The dis- 

 covery was made by Rev. (ieorge K. Morris at a new watering 

 place called Island Heights, which is located upon a swelling 

 l)lutf on tlie nortlu'rn Itauk of Tom's River, near its mouth, 

 three miles from thi' .Vtlantic Ocean, in al)out Lat. -40- N. 




360 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



Mr. Morris, who has been much interested in noting the habits 

 of ants, observed this species carrying the needle-like leaves 

 of the pine into their nests, and thereupon followed their 

 behavior until he found it to be quite like that of the cutting 

 ant of Texas, Affo fervi'iis. Dr. McCook having been informed 

 of the above discoveiy, made a journey to Island Heights in 

 the early pari of September, 1^80. Unfortunately a severe eastern 

 storm set in before the ti'ain reached Tom's Kiver, and con- 

 tinued during his sta^^ with such rigor as utteily to preclude 

 observation of the out-door behavior of the ants. However, 

 by woiking in the storm, protected by rubber garments and a 

 temporary slielter. he was able to make a study of the internal 

 architecture of a nest. 



The opening from the surface appeared to be a single narrow 

 tubular galler}^ X^ of about two inches in length, which pene- 

 trated the ground at an angle of near 45°, and entered a spherical 

 chamber, V — a sort of vestibule — about 1^ inches in diameter. 

 Within this a few ants were found, nothing more. 



This vestibule communicated by a short gallery, 1", with a 



second chamber or cell, C, 



having generally a spheri- 

 cal shape, but more irregu- 

 lar in outline than the ves- 

 tibule. It was about 3 in. 

 in diameter. Within this 

 were several small masses 

 of an ashen-gray, fibrous 

 pulp or papery material, 

 closely resembling that 

 found by him in the large 

 cells or caves of the Texas 

 cutting ant.^ This was 

 evidently the leaf-paper 

 formed b}' the manduca- 

 tion of the pine leaves. It 

 was exceedingly .fragile, 

 even more so than the 

 leaf-paper of the Texas 

 Atta, and could not be kept 

 together in the original 

 mass for examination. It 

 appeared, however, to be 

 without the decided cellu- 

 lar arrangement first ob- 

 served by him in the leaf- 

 paper of the Texas ant, 

 whose "combs" — the analogue of those of other hymenopters, as 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, p, 37. 




1880.] NATURAL SCJKNCKS OF PHI LADEl.I'HI A. .'^K 1 



the bee and wasp — wvro o(>m\t(>^('i\ of irrojiiilar licxaLToiial cells of 

 various sizes. 



None of these leaf-paper masses exceeded an inch in height ; 

 tiiey lay upon the floor of the cave, (\ or were upheld hy the 01a- 

 nientous rootlets whidi i>enet rated within the hollow, or, more 

 properly speaking, around which the cave had hi-en formed. In 

 this respect also the liahit of the northern ant reseml)les that of 

 the southern. Although, as said, the out-door l»eliavior of the ant 

 could not be observed Ijy Mr. McCook, the insects having all been 

 driven in-doors by the storm, these were observed to some extent 

 by Mr. Morris, the discoverer, during the summer. Mrs. Mary 

 Treat also visited the Heights and noted the same. From verbal 

 reports received from these ])ersons the analogy between the two 

 insects, in respect of gathering and tiansporting leave-^. appears 

 to be quite close. There are many points, however, which remain 

 to be determined accurately, which it is to be hoped will be done 

 next summer. 



The following account was communicated to the speaker by Mr. 

 Mo~ Is, and is incorporated, V)v his permission, in this note : — 



" In answer to your questions I would say, when first observed, 

 there were two columns, one going each way, and moving very 

 deliberately. If alarmed by any rudeness on my part, they sought 

 safety by remaining perfectly motionless for some time, making 

 it difficult to find them, as they are nearh' the color of the dry 

 leaves. 



'' Those in the column going homeward were carrying little pieces 

 of the pine needle or leaf, cut from seedling plants about 2 inches 

 high and upwards. In some instances the piece of leaf was not 

 as long as the ant itself, but in others it was longer than the 

 bearer. The appearance presented by the column was very singu- 

 lar, for instead of carrying their burdens as other ants do, so far 

 as I have observed, the}' bore the load on the head, resting in a 

 saddle-like, V-shaped space V)etween ridges on the head, running 

 from the base of the mandible on each side to tne top of the head. 

 One end was held firmly l)y the mamlibles. The eltect at a little 

 distance was to give them a •shoulder arms' api)earance. 



" Tracing the column back, I readily found their foraging ground 

 a few feet from the formicary. There were the n-mains of several 

 seedling pines which had been stripped and cut down nearly to 

 the ground. Some ants were at work on the only one left stantl- 

 ing, and I enjo3'ed the i)leasure of witnessing their operations. 

 There lay on the ground a few pieces, which were picked up. as I 

 watched, and carried away. On the plant there were two at work 

 cutting. Climbing out on a leaf to a position near the end, the 

 ant applied her mandibles, and moved around as she cut, until the 

 piece was severed, when she repeated the process, in most cases 

 allowinu- the severed pieces to fall. One cutter held on to her last 




3t>'2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880- 



cuttiiiii-, backed down with it, and started ofi' home. In no in- 

 stance have I ever Ibiind one of these ants carrvin<^ a load of any 

 kinil in any other way than as described above. Your account of 

 the Texas ant Avould answer as well for this. 



" The little leaf-cutters at Island Ileiglits have no mounds at the 

 entrance to their formicaries. I found many nests, but none 

 with a mound. The sand pellets in every case where I found ants 

 at work were carried otf several inches distant on every side and 

 scattered, as if for secrecy. The ants' movements were exceed- 

 ingly deliberate, always. Some seemed overloaded and rested 

 often, but never laid down their load. 



" A.11 the colonies were comparatively small. I was unable to 

 tind any indication that they Avere connected one with another. 



•' There is not, so far as my observations go, any elaborate open- 

 ing and closing of gates, such as you describe, but in wet weather 

 I usually found a leaf over the entrance to their nest. 



'' The architecture of their eaves is a miniature copy of that of 

 your Texas cutting ant. 



'' I found them cutting only the pine leaf and the leaf of a small 

 shrub called Cow Wheat (Melampi/rum americanum). Of this 

 plant they took the petals also. The\' carried the dry curled leaf 

 as well as the green and freshly cut. 



" They also carry and incorporate into the nest material the drop- 

 pings of certain larvie that feed on oak leaves." 



Mr. Morris observed at the same place a second and larger form 

 of leaf-cutting ant, which he thinks to be a distinct species ; but 

 as he Avas not able to point out any of the nests to Mr. McCook 

 and has not yet made thorougli examination, this point remains 

 to be solved. 



The ant Avhose economy is described above closel}' resembles 

 the famous Alia fervent of our southern regions, haA'ing the same 

 leaf-brown color and the same characteristic spines. It is distin- 

 guislied by a black longitudinal band along the median dorsal 

 part of the abdomen, and by a similar band along the middle 

 part of the face, marking the furrow formed by tAvo ridges, the 

 prolongation (apparently) of the antennal ridges to the A'ertex of 

 the caput. A double row of spines extends along the entire tho- 

 rax and nodes, expanding at the prothorax into about four. Two 

 castes of Avorkers Avere found, appearing to be the Avorkers major 

 and minor, in length resi)ectively 4 and 8 millimetres, or about 

 one-sixth and one-eighth of an inch. The species appears to be 

 ncAv, and Dr. McCook at least A^entured conditionally to name it 

 the Northern Cutting Ant — Atta septentrionalis. 



The discovery at so northern a point of this species, with habits 

 quite identical Avith those of tropical congeners, seemed to the 

 speaker to be a remarkably intei-esting fact in the distribution of our 

 ant fauna. He was at once impressed b}^ the striking contrast be- 

 tween the vast myriads of Avorkers, the extensive excaA'ations, 

 and the formidable and vigorous activities of the Texas colonies, 




1880.] NATI RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 36S 



and the small numbers, slight excavations and apparently slug- 

 gish movements of their northern allies. And he eoiild not for- 

 bear the thought that these New Jersey communities of Atta 

 septentrionalis si-emed like the feel)le remnant of a vigorous race 

 left or thrust by some untoward change upon unfavorable sites, 

 which must work toward their cxtiuction. 



Dece.muer 28. 

 The Tresident, Dr. RuscHENBERdKU, in tlie cliair. 

 Eighty persons present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : — 




3t)4 PROCEEPINUS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



ON SOME NEW LOWEH EOCENE MOLLUSCA FROM CLARKE CO. ALABAMA, 



WITH SOME POINTS AS TO THE STRATIGRAPHICAL POSITION 



OF THE BEDS CONTAINING THEM. 



HY ANGELO HETLPIIIN. 



The following species of fossil mollusca, for which I am indebted 

 to Dr. Eugene A. Smith, State Geologist of Alabama, were ob- 

 tained from sections exposed in that State on Knight's Branch 

 and Cave Branch, tributaries of Bashia Creek (Clarke Co.), and 

 from Wood's Bluff on the Tombigbee River, near the mouth of 

 Bashia Creek, and some twenty-eight miles north of St. Stephen's. 

 They occur in probably the oldest marine tertiary deposits of the 

 State, and occupy a horizon nearly parallel with that which is 

 characterized b}' the fossils of Upper Marlborough and Piscata- 

 way River, MarN'land, and Pamunkey River, Virginia. The follow- 

 ing enumeration of fossils from the three localities first named, 

 will best illustrate the palaeontological relations of the beds 

 containing them toward each other, and to the various Eocene 

 deposits of the Atlantic and Gulf slopes : 



Fossils from Knight's Branch. 



Astarte tellinoides, Conr. ( Var. A. sulcata, Lea.) 



Cytherea perovata, Conr. 



Cytherea NuttalHopsis, Heilpr. sp nov. 



? Cardita alticosta (Blandingi), Conr. 



Corbula rugosa, Lam. 



(C. oniscus, Conr; var'. C. gibbosa, Lea.) 

 Ancillaria (Ancillopsis) subglobosa^ Conr. 

 Natica setites, Conr. 

 Turbinella (Caricella) Batidoni, Deshayes, sp. 



( Valuta Bandoni^ Desh.) 

 Laevibuccinum lineatum, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Rostellaria {Galyptrophorus) trinodifera, Conr. 

 Solarium cupola, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Fusus inter striatus, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Fusus sub-tenuis, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Fusus ( Strepsidura) subscalarinus, Heilpr. sp. nov. 

 Tornatella {Tornatellcea) bella, Conr. 

 Ostrea. 

 Cylicosmilia. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI LADKM'HI A. 36& 



Fossils from Cave Bnuicli. 



iJentnlium micro-slria, Heilpr. sp. nov, 



Natica setitea, Conr. 



Natica Mississippiensis, Conr, 



Pyrula muUnngitlafa, Ileilpr. sp. nov. 



Pyriila Iricoxtnta. Dosli. 



Turrit (iUa carina fa^ Lea. 



Solarium cupola, Ileilpr. sp. nov. 



'( Pleuro(oma acuminata. Sowerb}'. 



Pleurotoma nwniliata, Heilpr, sp. nov, 



Ca.^sidaria (fragment). Closely allied to C. carinata. Lam. 



Volitta (AthJela) Tuomeyi, Conr. 



Fusus pagodiformiK, Heilpr. 



Fusus interstriatus^ Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Fusus subtcnuis. Heilpr, sp. nov. 



Fusus (Htrt'psidura) subxcalarinu!<, H('ili)r. s]>. nov. 



Leda protexta, Conr. 



Cardium (Protocardia). Young of C. Nicollefi? Conr. 



Ostrea (same species as from Knight's Branch). 

 Fossils from Wood's Bluff. 



Dentalium micro-stria, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Natica limuta, Conr. 



Pyrula muUanguhda, lk'ili)r. sp. nu\'. 



Turritella carinata, Lea. 



Solarium cupola, Heilpr. sj). nov. 



Solarium dclphinuhndc.'^, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



CanceUaria erulsa, Brauder, sp. 

 ( C. tortipli<-a ? Conr.) 



Pleurotouta ( (Jochlespira i cri^tata. Conr. 



Pleurotouta, n. sp. 



Ancillaria (Auvi/lopsi.-o suli(/lol><isa. Conr. 



Pscudoliva vetusta, Conr. 



Pseudolica scaliua, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Voluta (Al/ilcfa) Tuomcyi, C(»nr. 



Fusus pKiijodi f'ttrniis, Heilpi". 



! Fusus ( Lerifusus) Irahi'otus, Conr. 



Fusus i}>fi'rsfrialus, Heilpr. sp. nov. 



Fusus. n. sp. 



^ Cardila allicosfa {Blaudiui/i), Conr. 



Leda protect a, Conr. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Pecten Poulsoni, Morton. 



Ostrea (species ditierent from that of Kiiiglit's Branch and 

 Cave Branch. ) 



From an examination of the above tables it will be seen that a 

 fair proportion of the fossils from Knight's and Cave Branches 

 are held in common by both dei)osits, and therefore there can be 

 no reasonable doubt that they represent about equivalent horizons. 

 Of the hitherto undescribed forms Cytherea Nuttalliopsis a.nd Laevi- 

 buccinum lineatum appear to have been obtained only at the 

 former, and PleunAoma monlUata at the latter localit}', although 

 it is highly probable that fiirllier investigation will leveal their 

 mutual presence in both localities. The desciribed American forms 

 are mainly those occurring at various heights on the Claiborne 

 exposure. A comparison of these forms with those obtained by 

 Tuomey (First Biennial Report of the Geology of Alabama, p. 

 146) from the Bashia Creek sections near Choctaw Corner, shows 

 the two groups to be of a contemporaneous age, for from bed No. 

 2 of that section Prof. Tuomey obtained (among others) species 

 of " Ostrea^ Cytherea, Gardila, Cardiuin, Bostellaria, Acteeon. 

 Vohda, Infundibulum, and Solarium,'''' which appear to have been 

 identical with the species obtained by Dr. Smith from the two 

 localities above mentioned.' 



^ The species euumerated by Tuoiney are Ostrea conqjressirostra, Cardita 

 planicosta, Rostellaria vclata, Actaon j)07niliu8, Valuta Say una ? Cardiuin 

 N^icolleti, and lnfundibulumtrocMfor?ni.s. The specimens appear to have been 

 submitted to Mr. Conrad, who considered the determinations of Tuomey as, 

 at least in part, imperfect, and substituted the fallowing specific names (Am, 

 Journ. Science, new series, xl, p. 260) : Ostrea CaroUuensis (species from 

 the Santee Canal, South Carolina), VolutiUthcs \_Athlcta] Tuomeyi (de- 

 scribed by Conrad [Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vi, p. 449] in lSo3 from 

 Bashia Creek), and Protocardia Yirgiuinna? The following remark in 

 pencil occurs in the volume of Toumey's Reports, contained in the library 

 of the Academy : "All doubtful except Venencardia planicosta. T. A. 

 Conrad." Tuomey's Rostellaria relata and Actwon pomilias were in all 

 probability Rostellaria trinodifera and Tornutella bella, which would better 

 agree with the descriptions of obviously the same fossils as given in Hale's 

 report (C. S. Hale : The Geology of South Alabama, Am. Journ. Science, 

 new series, vi, p. 355). 




1880.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 

 SECTION ON BABHIA CREEK. 



367 



(Tuomey : First Biennial Report, p. 145. i 

 NoTji.— Beds 5 and G do not properly belong to the section, but "repre- 

 sent beds seen on another p.irt of the stream below the preceding." [ Loc. 

 cil. p. 146.) 



The fossils tVoin Wujd's Bliitf, some 15 miles W. of Choctaw 

 Corner, were obtained by Di-. Smitli from a bed of indurated 

 iireen sand risin(>- about 10-15 feet above water line, which bed mav 

 ])OSsibly represent the lowermost portion of bed Xo. 2 of the 

 Bashia section. Some support is given to this view by the cir- 

 cumstance that at tliis point — Wood's Blutf — the basal lignite 

 (which in the abovi- nunied section has a thickness of (j feet) has 

 disappeared. ;ind more especially ( at least, as showing it to possess 

 a distinetivi' character) by the general faciesof the representative 

 molluscous fauna. Although there exists a close similarity be- 

 tween the general assemblage of its fossils and those of the two 

 " Branches " of Bashia Creek, yet the number of peculiar forms is 

 consideiably greater, and consequently the" aggregate possesses a 

 much more decided individuality tlian obtains witheither of the de- 

 posits in question. Moreovi-r. I am informed by Dr. Smith that 

 the fossil fauna of Knight's and Cave Branches corresponds most 

 closely with that of bed No. 4 ' of the Wood's Blutf section, an 

 aluminous deposit about 21-2G feet above water level, and con- 

 taining species of DentaUiim, TornaleJla^ Solarium, I'urritella, 

 and ItoaleUaria identical with forms from the two first nanu'd 

 localities. The disappearance of the basal lignites at Wood's 



' Section as yet unpublished, but oonmiiniicaf«'<l by letter to tlie author. 




868 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Hlutf may be accounted for on the supposition that the}' have 

 dipi)ed under, which woukl bo in harmony with what we know 

 concerning tlie dip of the beds in this region. This is but locally 

 or at best, but partialh* indicated in Tuomey's reports, but judg- 

 ing from the contour lines of the cretaceous formation on the 

 general maps appended to the first and second Reports, and from 

 the north and south sections on the map of 1849, as Avell as from 

 the facts obtained in Mississippi, it must be in a direction w-est of 

 the southern line, or in other words, S. by W. Dr. Smith has 

 found the loss by dip in a southerly direction on the Tomblgbee 

 River to be about 10 feet to the mile, which accords well with 

 Ililgard's observations on the Upper Eocene and Oligocene forma- 

 tions of Mississippi.^ 



From pahvontological evidence alone the three exposures in 

 question might readilj' be taken to represent rather an Upper than 

 a Lower Eocene horizon, for in addition to the species typical of 

 the American Middle Eocene, or Claiborne group proper (Calca- 

 reous Claiborne of Hilgard), and to the new or undescribed forms, 

 we have the following which have not been hitherto recognized as 

 belonging to the formation, and which, on the contrary, were 

 originally described (at least the majority of them) from deposits 

 of newer date. 



Caricella (Voluta) Bandoni, DeshMye?, sp. {Aniiiiaux s. Vtrt'br., /lasxiu de /'mii, 

 II, I'l. 11)2, tigs. 13 and 14), from the " calcaire grossier," Middle Eocene of most 

 geciliigistf, rpjaT EuceDe of Judd. Knight's l?ranch. 



Natica Mississippiensis, Conrad (J. A. N. S. 2d :^eries, i, p. II 4), oiigiually described 

 from the A'ick.shiir^ (Oligocene) gri)U|i. but iilso fojnd in the Jackson ( Ujiper 

 Plocene) deposits. Cave Branch. 



Fleurotoma acuminata, Sowc by (Mineral Conehology, Vol. ii, p. lOJ), irom the 

 London Clay of Highgate (Lower Eocene of most geologists, Middle Eocene of 

 .Judd), and IJarton clay (Upper Eocene)? (Ihavebad no specimens of this species? 

 with which to institute direct comparisons, but from a careful examination of 

 S()werby"s and Edwards' figures and descriptions there appear to me to be no 

 jiistitiahle grounds for sepiirating ilie species figured on Pi. 20, fig. 10, from its 

 European ally. Cave Branch. 



Pyrula tricostata, Deshayes {('nquHhK /■'ohhUh, ii, p. 584), from Ri'theuil and Cuise- 

 Lainothe, Middle Eocene (Suessonian of d'Orbigny). Cave Branch. 



' Hilgard found the dip of the Jackson and Vicksburg strata to be from 

 10 to 12 feet per mile S. by W., at "poiuts where the great regularity of 

 succession for a considerable distance seemed to indicate a normal config- 

 uration.'" (A. J. Science, new series, xliii, p, 36.) 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Pecten Poulsoni, Morton (Synopsis Org. Rem. Cret. (Jrouj). p. 59), a companion of 

 OrbitoideH Mant-lli, Mort. sp., and, according to Hilgard, an eiitenlially Vicks- 

 burg (Oligocene) fossil. Wood's lihiflT. 



Canoellaria evulsa, Sowerby [liuccinum tvuhum, Brander] (Miner. Conchol., iv, p. 

 84), from the Barton clay (Upper Eocene) of England, and Grignon (" Calcaire 

 greasier") of France.' Wood's Bluff. 



Pleurotoma (Cochlespira) cristata, Conr. (J. A. X. S., 2d ser. i, p. 115), originally 

 described frriii the VicksliurK group, but doubtful whether differing from the 

 Pleurotoma htlla, Conr., from the Upper Eocene of Texas. Wood's Bluff. 



In addition to the above, there is among the fossils from Wood's 

 Bluff an immature Cardium {Pro(ocardia), which may possibly 

 represent the j'oung of C. Nicolleti (Jackson group), with which 

 it agrees in outline and general ornamentation, or that of C. Vir- 

 giniana, Conr. (Pamunkcy River), an undescribed species, but of 

 which a labeled specimen is in the collections of the Academy. 

 The absence of asperulations on the posterior slope of the speci- 

 men in question, however, rendering it uncertain whether they 

 were ever present, or whether they are merely abraded or water- 

 worn, allows of no absolute specific determination. 



Whatever maj- be the palajontological facies of the deposits in 

 question, however, there can be no reasonable doubt as to their 

 true position, since Dr, Smith, as he informs me, has traced bed 

 No. 6 (or the uppermost bed immediately underlying the stratified 

 drift) of his Wood's Bluflf" section to tiic mouth of Witch Creek, 

 about 2 miles below on the Tombigbeo River, where its relation to 

 the overlying " Buhrstone " is made manifest in an exposure just 

 beyond the mouth of the creek. White Bluff, about 250 to 275 

 feet in height, beautifully exhibits the white siliceous clay stones 

 and silicified shells so characteristic of the southern Buhrstone 

 formation. These occupy the uppermost portion of the bluff, and 

 make up fully 100 feet of its vertical height; the intermediate 

 portion extending to the water's level, is mainly composed of 

 laminated lignitic clays, with occasional intercalated beds of pure 

 lignite. It becomes manifest from what has just been stated that 

 the fossiliferous lieds of Wood's Bluff (<'/ conseij. the eiiuivalent 

 deposits on Knight's and Cave Branches and Bashia Creek) must 

 be between 150 and 200 feet below the base of the Buiirstont' 



' A very closely allied species, the Tritoninm{!) paucivaricntum of Gabb, 

 occurs in the Tejon group i Upper Cretaceous — Eocene?) of ralifornia, 

 associated with Vurditif pUinicoxUi and other characteristic fornix of Ter- 

 tiary fos.sils. 



35 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(Siliceous Clairborno of Hilgard) formation, or what has hitherto 

 been considered as the base of the Eocene formation in South 

 Carolina. Allowing a uniform southerl}- dip of 10 feet to the 

 mile, these same beds must be about 250 to 280 feet below the 

 "bed of green sand'' mentioned by Tuomey (1st Biennial Report^ 

 p. 148) as occurring at Baker's Bluff, a fe^v miles above St. 

 Stephens, (stated to be " rich in organic remains, identical with 

 the fossils of Claiborne ") and which, immediatelj^ above St. 

 Stephens (Tuomey, loc cif., p. 149), dips beneath the water-line. 

 This approximate determination of position agrees closely with 

 the observations made in the northeastern portion of the county, 

 for Dr. Smith found by actual barometric measurements that the 

 ''chalk hills" (Buhvstone) near Lower Peach Tree on the Ala- 

 bama River, and at a locality about 7 to 8 miles south of Choctaw 

 Comer, were about 250 feet above Knight's and Cave Branches, 

 and the marl bed (No. 2) of Tuomey's Bashia section. 



Whether these 'older Eocene deposits underly the bluft' at Clai- 

 borne has not yet been proved, but it is but fair to presume that 

 they do. Likewise, it remains to be shown what relation the basal 

 lignite on Bashia Creek bears to the "Northern Lignite'' of 

 Hilgard. 



CYTHEREA, Lam. 

 Cytherea Nuttalliopsis, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 1. 



Shell sub-elliptical, moderately ventricose, its surface covered 

 with fine concentric striae, which are apt to become roughly im- 

 bricate on the basal margin ; umbones not very prominent, rather 

 anterior ; lunule cordate, deeph^ impressed at about its middle, its 

 outline clearly pronounced by a sharply impressed line ; posterior 

 extremity regularly rounded, the anterior somewhat produced ; 

 margin entire ; pallial sinus somewhat angular, pointing toward 

 the centre of the shell. 



TiCngth, H inch. Knight's Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



This species most resembles among American species of Cy- 

 therea the C. Nuttalli, Conr., from which it may be distinguished 

 by the greater production forward of the anterior extremity, and 

 by the median depression in the lunule. In this last character it 

 agrees with G. Poulsoni, Conr., from which, however, it very 

 materially differs in form, and in the much lesser development of 

 the umbones. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILAIJKLI'HIA. 371 



PSEUDOLIVA, Swiiin-on. 

 Pseudoliva scalina, n. ^]>- I'l. 20, fi^ 12. 



Sliell hucc'inifonu, of about seven volutions; the wliorls roughly 

 plicated ; the folds on the bod}' whorl appearing as shoulder no- 

 dujes; dentiferous sulcus avcU pronounced, folUnvcd l)y aliout five 

 impressed revolving lines, Avhich slightl}- crcnulate the margin of 

 the outer lip; revolving lines on the body-wlioil aliove the sulcus 

 almost ol)solete ; aperture slightly exceeding the s|)ii-(' in length : 

 columella callous; sutui-e (U-eply channelrd. 



ficngth, \\ inch. Wood's i;iull", Clarke Co.. .\hi. 



LffiVIBUCCINUM, Cn.rM . 

 (Amer. Jour. Couchol., i, p. 21. Genus not characterized.) 



Shell having the general form of Mctula, II. & A. Adams, but 

 destitute of all traces of a posterior canal ; aperture between bucci- 

 niform and fusiform, about the length of the spire. This genus 

 is distinct from Biiccinanop^ of d'Orbign}-, under which the Buv- 

 ciniim (Lsevibuccinum) prorsum, Conr., is erroneously classed in 

 the Prodrome de Paleontologii' , ii, ]). 369. 

 Laevibuccinum lineatum, n. sp. PI. 2(', fig. h. 



Shell fusiform, of about seven convex volutions, whicJi are 

 throughout their Avhole extent covered b}- fine, but distinct, re- 

 volving lines ; aperture slightly exceeding the spire in length, 

 sub-canaliculate anteriorly; columella gently arcuate; outer lip 

 striate within. 



Length, 1 inch. Knight's Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



This species mainly dilfers from the L. pj-orsum, Conr., in 

 having the revolving lines eipially distinct over the entire surface 

 of the whorls. The Mxrex {Fasus rt Buci-inuiii aucf.) mifrfe- 

 formis of Brocchi, from the Oligocene and Miocene dejiosits of 

 Prance, Austria, and Italy, is a closely relati'd species. 



FUSUS, l,iimiiitk. 

 Fu8U8 subtenuis, n. .>;p. IM. 2(i, (i>;. I. 



Shell fusiform, of about seven sub-angular volut i(in> : whorls 

 ornamented with somewhat obscure longitudinal folds. al>out twelve 

 on the body-whorl, which are cut by several prominent revolving 

 ridges commencing at the shoulder angulation ; shoulder of the 

 whorls more or less smooth, with an obsc-uri' median revolving line, 

 and a prominent sub-sutural one ; aperture about the length of the 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



spire, or slightly exceeding it, the canal gently curved, moderately 

 contracted, and somewhat exi)anding at the extremity ; outer lip 

 thin, and showing internally the external ornamentation; base with 

 numerous revolving lines, which alternate in coarseness. 



Length, 1:} ineli. Knight's Branch; Cave Branch, Clarke Co., 

 Alabama. 



Fusus iuterstriatus, u. sp. IM. 20, fig. 11. 



Shell fusiform, slender, composed of about ten convex volutions, 

 the first three of which are smooth; whorls ornamented with both 

 longitudinal plications and revolving lines, the last of which (about 

 eight in the upper whorls) alternate with finer intermediate stria? ; 

 the longitudinal plications distinct on the earlier whorls, but 

 becoming much less so on the body-whorl, and the one preceding ; 

 aperture about the length of spire ; the canal somewhat tortuous ; 

 outer lip thin, dentate within. 



Length, 2 inches. Knight's Branch ; Cave Branch, Clarke Co., 

 Alal)ama. 



Subgenus HEMIFUSUS? 

 Fusus (Hemifusus 1) engonatus, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 8. 



Shell turreted, of about ten volutions, the first three whorls 

 smooth and convex, the remainder strongl}' carinated, and tra- 

 versed by numerous fine revolving lines, which on the median 

 portion of the body-whorl alternate with intermediate finer striae ; 

 bod^'-whoi'l impressed immediately below the carination (shoulder 

 angulation) ; lines of growth sinuous, and approximating the 

 characteristic lines of the Pleurotomidie ; aperture considerably 

 exceeding the spire in length ; columella slightly arcuate, and 

 presenting a rudimentary fold at about its central portion. 



Length, 1^ inch. Wood's Bluft; Clarke Co., Ala. 



This species resembles the Fusus bifasciaius of Deshayes 

 (Animaux saiis Vertebres, Bassin de Paris, II, pi. 84, figs. 15 and 

 10) from the Paris basin, but may be readily distinguished from 

 that species bj- its more slender form. 



Subgenus STREPSIDURA, Swaiiisou. 

 Fusus (Strepsidurd) subscalarinus, n. sp. PI. 20, fiji. 7. 



Shell somewhat bucciniform, whorls about eight, sub-angular, 

 the first three or four smooth, the remainder ornamented with 

 both longitudinal costae and revolving striae, the latter showing a. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



tendency to alternate in size; the costie are arcuate, not in a 

 regular continuous series, those on the Ijody-whorl extending 

 considerably below the middle of the whorl ; aperture about the 

 length of spire, the canal somewhat rellectcd ; columella covered 

 with a callous dejjosit, considerably twisted ; dutcr lip (lentate 

 within. 



Lengtli. 1 incli. Knight's Branch ; Cave Branch, Clarke Co., 

 Alabama. 



This species greatly resembles the Fusus fivalarin a s ol' Deshayes 

 (Coquilles Fossiles, II, p. 574, PI. LXXIII, figs. 27 and 2S), but 

 may be distinguished by the lesser prominence of its costae, and 

 by the presence of well defined striae over the entire surface of 

 the whorls. In this last respect, as well as in the subangulated 

 form of the whorls, it also differs from the Fu.'^us scalariformis, 

 Nyst (CoquiUes et FoJi/in'frs Fo.<sih'.'<. p. .t04. PI. XL, ligs. .5a, <i).^ 

 from Letlien, Belgium. 



TUEBINELLA, Lamarck. 



Subgenus CARICELLA, ^'onracl, 

 Tnrbinella (Caricelia) Bandoni, Deshavcii, -p. PI. 20, tig. 1 j. 



The large species of Caricelia from Knight's Branch agrees so 

 closely with the figures of Voluta Bandoni,Desh. (Ainmaux xans 

 Vertebres, Bassin de Paria, II, pi. 102, figs. 13 and 14), from the 

 Paris basin, that I do not feel justified in considering it a distinct 

 species. The American form ajjpears to have been somewhat 

 more elevated, but this is probablv no more than a varietal cir- 

 cumstance. 



Length, 4 inclies. Knight's Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



PLEUROTOMA. 

 Pleurotoma moniliata. n. sji. PI. 20, iiir. '•'. 



Shell fusiform, elevated, of about eight volutions, the whorls 

 considerably contracted above the shoulder; whorls ornamented 

 with a double series of nodes, the lower much the most strongly 

 developed, which gives to the upper portion of the spire a monili- 

 forra appearance; surface of entire shell traversed by line revolving 

 lines, which become more distant, very prominent, and alternate 

 on the median i)ortion of the Itody-whorl ; aperture aliout the 

 length of spire ; the relative jiosition of the uppn- miuI lower Timlfs 

 corresponds to the sinuous lines of growth. 



Length, 1 inch. Cave Braiicii. Clarke Co.. .\l;i. 




3Y4 PHOCEEPTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Pleurotoma acuminata T Sowerliy. PI. 20, tij;. 10. 



(^lineral Conchology, IT, p. 10").) 



Sliell fusilbrra, acuminate, of about nine volutions ; whorls flat- 

 tened, longitudinally plicated and traversed b}^ fine revolving lines, 

 •which become crowded on the concave upper portion of the whorls, 

 and alternate on the basal portion of the body -whorl ; suture bor- 

 dered inferiorly by an elevated line, which is somewhat crenulated 

 b}' the sinuous lines of growth ; aperture less than one-half the 

 length of shell. 



Length, 1 inch. Cave Branch, Clarke Co., Ala. 



This Pleurotoma corresponds ver}- closely with the descriptions 

 and figures of P. acuminata as given by Sowerby in the " Mineral 

 Conchologj%" and hy Edwards in his monograph of the English 

 Eocene mollusca ( Palasontographical Society Reports, 1854, p. 

 230, pi. xxvii, figs. 3a, ft, c, d), and will probably prove, on direct 

 comparison, to be referable to that species. 



PYRTJLA, Lamarck. 

 (Ficul((, Swainson.) 

 Pyrula multaogulata, n. sp. PI. 20, fig. 2. 



Shell elongated, sub-claviform ; apex of spire obtuse, consist- 

 ing of three smooth volutions ; whorls about seven, covered with 

 revolving striji3, which are very fine on the upper portion and 

 shoulder of the body-whorl, but less so and attenuate on the basal 

 portion ; bod3^-whorl occupying about three-fourths of the entire 

 shell, marked by two prominent and one lesser carinas, and a 

 single row of crenulations on the shoulder angulation ; the fourth 

 whorl (the first one bearing ornamentation) appears cancellated ; 

 columella curved. 



Length, 1 inch. Cave Branch; Wood's Bluft", Clarke Co., Ala. 



Pyrula tricostata, Deshaye?. PI. 20, fig. 6. 



(Coquilles Fossiles, ii, p. 584, Atlas, PI. 79, figs. 10 and 11.) 

 Although I have no specimen of Pyrula tricostata for direct 

 comparison, I have, nevertheless, but very little hesitation in 

 referring the Alabama form above figured to the same species, as 

 it agrees in all essential respects with the figures and descriptions 

 of that form as given by Deshayes in the Coquilles Fossiles. 

 Three unnamed specimens of a Pyrula in the Academy collection 

 from Dax, France, which I believe to be the P. clava (OJigocene?) 

 of Bastcrot. somewhat resemble the Alabama species, but are 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCKS UK IMIILADKLI'IIIA. 37o 



comparativi'ly niiicli more robust, and liave the costal nodes and 

 revolving stria? consideraV)l3' more developed. 



SOLARIUM, l-aiiiiink. 

 Solarium cupola, n. ?|). PI. 20, fi;;. 1 J. 



Shell convexly conical, mound-like, of about five volutions; 

 whorls ornamented with alternating coarse and very fine concen- 

 tric lines, and apjiearing double from a medial iini)ression Uhe 

 shell apparently of twice the number of volutions that it actually 

 possesses) ; base similarly ornamented as the npper surface, con- 

 vex, and strongly margined by the prolongation interiorly of the 

 outer wall; umbilical margin finely crenulated, the umbilicus 

 broadly open, and exhibiting the concentrically striated internal 

 volutions of the apex ; aperture rhomboidal. 



Length, f inch; diameter, 1^ inch. Cave Branch; Knight's 

 Branch ; Wood's Bluff, Clarke Co., Ala. 

 Solarium delphinuloides, n. ?p. PI. 20, fif?. i:'.. 



Shell convexly conical, of about seven volutions; the whorls 

 ornamented with several beaded revolving lines, two or more of 

 which near the upper margin, and one near the basal margin being 

 the most })rominently defined; base convex, sul)-marginall3' chan- 

 neled, and ornamented with numerous finely beaded revolving 

 lines, which become most prominent in the nmbilical region; um- 

 bilical volutions distinct to the apex, transversely striated, super- 

 medially carinated ; umbilical margin crenulated ; aperture sub- 

 circular. 



Length, ^ inch ; diameter, ^ inch. Wood's Blutf, ( 'hirke Co., Ala. 



DENTALIUM, L. 



Dentalium micro-stria, n. sp. PI 20, tig. :i. 



Shell slender, considerably curved and greatly attenuated, 

 faintly striated, the stria? most conspicuous on the attenuated 

 portion ; posterior aperture entire, there being no fissure ; anterior 

 aperture circular. 



Length, 1^ to 2 inches. Cave Branch; Wood's !> In If. Clarke 

 Co., Ala. 



FUBUS pagodiformis {I'Uarol'imn .' patjo'i't, lleilpr., PmoeiMliiiijs 111 tlu- I. .-. N ;i 

 tionul .Miisi-iiin, 18S0), sj.eci6e nsivac piKjinln pre-ouciipiod by Ailiiins and RcoTe. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880^ 



THE SHINING SLAVEMAKER.— NOTES ON THE ARCHITECTURE AND 



HABITS OF THE AMERICAN SLAVE-MAKING ANT, 



POLYERGUS LUCIDUS. 



By Rev. IIenky C. McCook, D. D. 



August 21st, 1878, at the foot of the Allegheny Mountains, near 

 Altoona (Bellwood, Pa.), I discovered a nest of Pohjei^gun lucidus, 

 Maj'r, the American representative of the well-known European 

 P. rufescens. The latter is the Amazon or Legionary Ant of 

 Huber, and is associated with tliat author's discovery of compound 

 ant-hills, the term applied to those nests in which certain ants 

 have associated with them, in a sort of slavery, ants of another 

 species. Huber made a full and interesting account of the pred- 

 atory excursions of P. rufescens^^ and other interesting behavior, 

 which ForeP has recently fully confirmed and completed. It is, 

 however, of interest, to discover the existence of the same habits 

 in a closel}'' allied species in America, and this record is therefore 

 presented. Moreover, there are here some details of architecture 

 which ma}^ prove of value in themselves. 



The nest of Lucidus above referred to was situated in the 

 gravellj'^ soil of a valley between the mountains and the Juniata 

 River. The field was sown in clover, and had not been plowed for 

 several 3^ears. While passing through the field, I observed several 

 ants resembling at first sight the common mound-makers, Formica 

 exsectoides, issuing from a hole. I stopped to note them more 

 carefully and saw a worker of PohierguH lucidus come out and 

 return to the same nest. I at once began an exploration of the 

 nest, as my time was limited, and professional duties prevented 

 extended studies of the out-door habits of the creatures. There 

 were four gates (fig. 1, PI. 19), separated a few inches from each 

 other. Two were simple tubular openings into the ground, about 

 three-fourths of an inch in diameter ; the others were two similar 

 openings removed several inches from the first named, and united 

 by a worn concave road, like a half tube. The four were arranged 

 upon the arc of a circle. The nature of the soil, which was filled 

 with coarse gravel and stones, prevented me from noting (as per- 



1 "Natural History of Ants," .Johnson's translation. London, 1820. 



2 "Les Fourmis de la Suisse." 




Proc.A.]Sr.S.,PkLla..l880. 



PI. XIX 



J WR3S».Uth., Arch St, Phi. 



Mc Cook on Slave -makiii^. Am 





1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLAI»ELl'FnA. 377 



haps it had prevented the ants from making) any orderly arrange- 

 ment of galleries and rooms in stories. But chambers were 

 discovered, placed one above the other, united by tubular gMlleries. 

 and extending down at least twenty-two inches, the depth to which 

 the excavation was carried. The general character of these may be 

 shown by the following examples. Twelve inches from the sur- 

 face the trowel uncovered an opening into a cavity. My gently 

 removing the earth, a similar opening was made just f)pposite 

 (fig. 2, PI. 19). When the little bridge between the two was cut 

 away there was exposed an ovoid room (fig. 3, PI. IK), in which 

 were a number of ants, chiefly males and females of Lucidus. 

 The room was an inch high at the middle, and an inch and a half 

 across from wall to wall; a tubular gallery led from it into the 

 earth beyond. Another chamber, found at ten inches below the 

 surface, was a large irregular cavity, which appeared, on removing 

 a smooth stone, flush up against which it had l)ei'n mined (fig. 4, 

 PI. 19). It was three inches long, one inch and a quarter high, at 

 the highest point, and extended inward at the deepest point nearly 

 two inches. The line of the roof against the stone was irregular, 

 falling to seven-eighths of an inch to five-eighths, rising to seven- 

 eighths, and at one end terminating in a gallerj'-like extension of 

 half an inch. A gallery opened downward near the stone and one 

 opened inward at the innermost point. This chamlier was also 

 occupied chieflv by males and females. This sulHciently charac- 

 terizes the internal architecture. 



Mingled with the Lucidus ants in large numliers were workers 

 in three forms, major, minor, and dwarf, of the speeies Formiea 

 Schauffussi. 



August 23d, the excavated nest was visited, an<l these ants were 

 found to be bus}' in part upon the galleries, wliich they were clean- 

 ing out, dragging the pellets of sand to the opening with the 

 design apparently of closing them. None of the Lucidus auts 

 were engaged in this work. Another portion of the slaves was 

 engaged in an extensive migration.' A few of the slaves were 

 carryingtheir fellows, but fortlie most \kiv{ the deportation was con- 

 fined to the males and females of Lucidus. The manner in which 

 the latter were seized and carried ofl' was well observed an<l is as 

 follows: The slave approached the winged ([iieen (lor example* 



' I have referred to this migration in " The A<,Mi(.Miltur;il Ant ot' Texas,' 

 p. 154. 




3T8 PROCEtDINUS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



and aftor the usunl touohini>; and crossing of antennae the man- 

 dibles were tiglitly interhx'ked (lig. 5. PL 19) ; the head of the slave 

 was then raised, and sinudtaneously the body of the queen drawn 

 back, stretched quite out in a straight line, and then doubled under, 

 the abdomen being thrown upward apparently resting against the 

 lower part of the face and the fore-part of the thorax (fig. 6, PI. 

 19). In this i)osition the large virgin queens were carried up the 

 perpendicular face of the cutting for eighteen or twenty inches, and 

 then for the distance of six feet over the ground and through the 

 grass. The time consumed in this journey was a few seconds over 

 one minute. I frequently observed this carrying of the workers of 

 Lucidus, in the artificial colonies which I afterwards formed and 

 brought to Philadelphia. The process was substantially the 

 same, although often the master was simpl}' dragged along the 

 surface. More than once a slight opposition was made to this 

 treatment. The slaves, or at least certain individuals of them (for 

 I am persuaded that ants have their personal peculiarities of dis- 

 position and moods like larger animals) seemed at times to have 

 a prejudice against the presence of the Lucidus ants above ground, 

 and would unceremoniously seize them and earr^^ them l)elow. I 

 haA'e seen a master or more properly " unstress," thus served 

 several times, each time returning in a dogged sort of resistance 

 to the will of her servitor. These emmet mistresses too, appar- 

 ently know something of the bitterness of bondage to a capricious 

 domestic " help." 



The wonderful muscular force of the grip which Lucidus takes 

 with her mandibles was thus illustrated : One worker had for 

 some reason fallen under the displeasure of another, who held her 

 firmly grasped by the middle thorax. Anxious to preserve my 

 colony from unnecessary loss, I lifted the two out on the point of 

 a quill toothpick, laid them in my hand, and thrust the fine point 

 of the quill between the jaws of the aggressor, and so teased her 

 until she I'eleased her hold of her fellow. The rescued ant in- 

 stantly clasped the palm of my hand, threw her abdomen under, 

 and thus with back curved up like an angry cat, sawed and tugged 

 at the skin until an abrasion had been made. While watching 

 this operation the other ant was still clinging to the quill, and to 

 her I next turned my attention. She was holding fast in her 

 mandibles the point of the toothpick, with her bod}' stretched 

 straight out into space, her limbs stretched outAvard, except one 




1880.] NATIRAL SriKNCKS OF Pmi.AI>EI,F'HIA. 319 



hind leg, which was a litth- bent iipwnnl. Thus, without any per- 

 ceptible support, except that whieli her Jaws crave her upon the 

 quill point, she hunor outstretched for several minutes. How 

 long she would have kept this position I know not, for I dropi>ed 

 her into the nest by clipping off witli scissors the point of tlie 

 quill, which, after hugging tiercely for a while, she finally aliandoned 

 as an unresponsive and unworthj' foe. 



In the course of the above migration, one (pieen was seen to 

 resist carriage so vigorously that she was finally dropped, and, 

 refusing to give the slave a hold iii)on the mandibles, was seized 

 by the wing and dragged off. The Lucidus ants seemed to have 

 no volition in nor direction of this movement. I released a num- 

 ber from their porters during various stages of the transit, who 

 always wandered about with a confused, aimless and irritated 

 manner until again seized and borne off by slaves. 



The locality to which the formicary was being tlius transported 

 was about six feet distant from the gates of the original nest. It 

 was either an old nest or a portion of the one just disturbed. The 

 quarters at least appeared to have been formerly prepared and 

 occupied. The gates of the nest were placed in one sloping side 

 and in the angle of a deep cross-furrow, and were quite well con- 

 cealed by tall grass and clover, tufts of sheep-shaw and various 

 small weeds (see fig. 7). In the angle of the furrow was a cleft 

 in the eai-th nearly two inches long, one end of which was rounded 

 into a gate of the size and character of those first described, and 

 at the other end into a smaller similar vertical tube. This entrance 

 was so well concealed by grass that I did not see it for some time 

 (fig. 8, PI. 19). Two and a half inches diagt)nally above this was 

 a lateral cleft, three inches long, from a half to three-fourths of an 

 inch high, and penetrating into the earth laterally at varii»us points 

 bv fralleries. The stalks of grass growing upon the side of the 

 sloi)e above sent down tiieir roots through the roof of tliis elett vesti- 

 bule into the floor. On one side of file cleft, half an incli aliove it, 

 was an entrance, with a dome-shaped vestibule. On the other side, 

 three inches above, was a fourth gate, opening under a round 

 stone. While some slaves were engaged in defwrting their For- 

 mica fellows and Polyergus associates into tlie new home, others 

 were busy bringing out straws and sand as though preparing thr 

 galleries and chambers witliin. Occasionally a Lucidus worker 

 would show herself for a moment at tlie uate with outreached 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



aiitennjv and open mandibles, as thongh on the watch for intruders, 

 and then slowly return to the interior. 



September IVth, twenty -seven da^'s after the discovery of this 

 formicary, I was again at Bellwood, and revisited it. The new 

 nest seemed to be deserted ; the ground around the gates seemed 

 to have been recently disturbed by a visitor, and no ants were 

 visible. The old nest, however, was abundantly peopled, and 

 numbers were found two and a half feet below the surface, from 

 which I was enabled to gather a large colony of slaves and workers 

 of Lucidus. The winged forms were gone. Mr. Edgar Kay, who 

 had assisted me in the excavations at the first visit, and had kept 

 an eye upon the nest, reported that a few days after my departure 

 (in the latter part of August), he had seen one male and several 

 females taking flight. The^^ perched upon grasses, etc., and thence 

 flew eastward, at a height of forty or fifty feet, to the end of the 

 field, some 300 feet distant. It is probable that after this marriage 

 flight of the sexes, the workers returned to the old home. 



After these ants were colonized, I was able to observe several 

 facts, chiefly confirmatory of those recorded b}' Huber, Forel and 

 others, of the European Polyergus. The masters never work; the 

 colony was changed several times in order to incite to new work 

 in mining galleries and rooms ; clusters of Lucidus were placed by 

 themselves ; always they remained idle. The slaves wrought with. 

 the greatest industry and energy as long as there was any need ; 

 the masters would crowd into the galleries, and move about in an 

 aimless way, but I never could trace an}- attempt either at direct- 

 ing or aiding in the work. So also I never saw one attempt to 

 eat. Sugar was fed freely and the slaves freel}- partook, until 

 they became gorged, and their abdomens grew transparent with 

 the pouched supply of liquid sweets. The masters strode over 

 the grains of sugar, and even when I had supposed that I had pre- 

 pared them with a good appetite by previous fasting, they partook 

 of nothing. Yet they are in good condition, and evidentlv well 

 fed. They doubtless are fed by the workers who must disgorge 

 the food, as when feeding larvae, callows, males, females, and even 

 each other. I have, however, never yet seen the actual passing of 

 nutriment from one to another, although often observing Lucidus 

 and Schauff'ussi in the posture which is commonh' assumed 

 when this mode of conveying food is being practiced. 



In galleries and rooms the Lucidi hang upon the sides or to the 




1880.] NATURAL SriKNCES OF PHI I.ADKI.PIIl A. 381 



ceiling, or are snugged in little clusters with the slaves. In 

 changing formicaries they were found thus rolled together in 

 balls, slaves and masters — or more properly, mistresses, for all 

 workers are undeveloped females — mingled in a promiscuous mass. 



One such cliange was made October 14th, the weather at the 

 time being chilly, and the furnaces not yet fired in the house. 

 But little effort was made to dig new galleries until evening, when 

 I warmed up the glass gl<)l)es by a gas-lanip. M}' experience here 

 has been quite the opposite of Hubcr's, who took such pains to 

 keep his artificial nests of P. rufescena from the light. Just as 

 with my agricultural ants, so P. luvidus at once turned to the 

 genial warmth and light, gathering in a great ball within the com- 

 fortable glow. A few of the slaves mountctl the glass in the 

 warmest place to be found. As often as I would revolve the glolx', 

 the cluster of snugging ants would unravel and transfer itself in 

 new mass upon the side toward the flame. The slaves also cheer- 

 fully work on the side toward the light, and indeed seem to prefer 

 to do so. 



Lucidus cleanses herself quite freely, but also I have very 

 frecpiently seen her soliciting the slaves to this service, who some- 

 times consent, and go over the bod}' from antenna? to abdomen, 

 licking and scraping it. The need of this service especially 

 appeared upon examining a dead Lucidus. Its body at various 

 parts was covered with minute white, ovoid objects, apparently 

 parasite eggs. I tliought them parasites, but could discover no 

 trace of life, or appearance of being living creatures. One seemed 

 to be suspended to the ant's body by a thread-like attachment. 

 Many of the slave-makers are thu'* affected. While taking out the 

 colony one slave was found upon which wcri' fastened two small 

 white insects, apparently mites, which I could not then examine, 

 and unfortunately lost among my specimens. I iiave often ob- 

 served ants to l)e infested with mites in natuial site, and partievi- 

 larly in artificial nests. The greatest care is recpiired to keep 

 them in healthy condition while in confinement. The admirable 

 structural provision for cleansing the person given to ants.' is 

 certainly needed in view of the liability to such dangers. 



The listless, heavy manner that is characteristic of Lucidus in 

 common, is wholly changed at any alarm, or the presence of an 

 enemy. Her true characti-r and duty to th(> community then 



' See '' Agnculturiil Ant of T.-xa.s." p. i:?0. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



appear. Various t'xpi'riiiionts established the fact that some of 

 these slave-makers (ai)i)areiitly) ahvays keep on guard, and that 

 certainly some are ready to spring at once to repel anj' attack. 

 For example, our of the slave-making Formica aanguinea, found 

 in the same neighborhood, was dropped into the Polyergus colon3\ 

 The hostile presence was instantly discerned and a Lucidus 

 worker sprung upon the Sanguinea and seized her near the throat. 

 Several slaves ran to the fray, and took part by seizing legs and 

 antenna? of the intruder. Not wishing such an unequal conflict, I 

 lifted the principal combatants out, having teased aAvay the others, 

 and set tiiem down to light it out fairly. Tjucidus had Sanguinea 

 gi'asped b\- the face at the eye with her mandibles when first 

 removed. This was not satisfactoi'v, for she began cautiously 

 and deftly to release her hold, preparing herself meanwhile, so 

 that with a quick snap she seized her foe by the neck, then turned 

 up the abdomen, and, as I suppose, ejected poison upon the face 

 and mouth of Sanguinea. I separated the two before either had 

 been mortally hurt. How'cver, Lucidus had lost the flagellum 

 of one antenna. I put Iier back into her nest. The battle-scarred 

 warrior had no sooner struck the soil which she had so gallantly 

 defended, than she w^as violently seized by a slave, and dragged 

 up and down by her sound antenna, the poor jointless scape mean- 

 while thrust out and waving piteously. The late exalted mien 

 and ferocious aspect were now gone, and the warrior cringed her 

 body and drooped her limbs like — it is no mere fancy word-painting 

 this — a sullen criminal in the hands of a policeman. The two 

 disappeared from my sight in the mouth of a gallery; but half an 

 hour afterward I saw the same warrior, whom I recognized by the 

 mutilated antenna, in the clutch of one of her scarlet fellow- 

 soldiers, who was mounted upon her back and holding her by the 

 neck. 



I am happy to record that two days thereafter I saw the 

 same veteran, evidently again in " good odor," perambulating the 

 surface of the formicary. It is probable that in the battle her 

 body had been tainted by some odor peculiar to her adversary, 

 which had made her obnoxious. It may be, indeed, that the loss 

 of the upper part of the antenna may have impaired recognition, 

 and so caused this hostile treatment. At all events I could not 

 but wonder whether any thought went through the little creature's 

 brain analogous to our meditations upon the ingratitude of Repulv 




1880.] NATURAL SCIKNCES (iK PHI LADKLI'll I A. 383 



lies, and the vault \ <jf inilitarv ^lory ! Tliis incident, ami many 

 other observations, go to establisii tiiat in tiie function <jf the 

 warrior is the true eeononi}- of this ant. The manner in which 

 her European congener Rufeseens makes her raids upon the nests 

 of Formico, fuHcn and F. ciuiicularin, marcliing in solid column, 

 and conducting war with activity', intelligence and success, may 

 be read in the fascinating jiages of Huber and Korel. There is no 

 doubt that our American species has precisely the same habit. 

 Mr. Joseph Jeanes, a well-known member of this Academy, has 

 described to me the raids of an ant o1)served by him upon his 

 country-phvce at Fox Chase, which, from his description of the 

 insect, without a specimen, I should have little hesitation in identi- 

 fying as our P. luridu^. 



The slaves, however, are not delicient in the combative faculty 

 They spring to repel a hostile attack as freely and fiercely as the 

 masters. They do this independently, too, just as they conduct 

 their mining operations, and their ability to wage successful war- 

 fare seems to be quite in keeping with their martial spirit. Dr. 

 Darwin has conjectured,' that the slave-making instinct ma^- have 

 originated from the unintentional rearing of jiupjc collected for 

 food, who proving themselves useful and congenial inmates of the 

 nest, suggested the collecting of pupte to be reared. Thus origin- 

 ated a habit, which ]»y natural selection was strengthened and 

 made permanent, and finally increased and modified, until an ant 

 was formed as abjectl}' dependent on its slaves as P. rii/'cs(i'n.'<. 

 Whatever credit we may give to this ingenious hypothesis, it 

 must be said, that in the case of our F. Sc/iat(Jf'ussi, natural selec- 

 tion has not operated to degenerate the soldierly courage and 

 faculty, and remand the duty of defense to those associates in 

 whom the military faculty has been specialized. In other words, 

 if Lucidus has become specialized as a warrior, dropping an origi- 

 nal disposition and ability to labor, Iut slave has not become 

 specialized as a worker, nor dropped her combative faculty, but 

 seems to be possessed in all respects of the normal habits and 

 nature of ants of her species. At least I could trace in her no 

 effects of slavery, other than the strange association with and care 

 of her abductor. One, therefore, who accepts Dr. Darwin's sug- 

 gestion, must allow that natural selection has wrought toward 

 specialization in one section of the colony, but has Injcn suspended 



' Origin of Species, p. 26. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



in its opi'rations upon the other section. It is doubtful if the 

 anomalous conditions thus raised by Dr. Darwin's explanation, 

 be not more difficult to explain than the original conditions to 

 which the hypothesis was applied. 



It is imi)ortant to note the wide distribution of this insect across 

 the American Continent. During the summer of 1879, while 

 encamped in the Garden of the gods, studying the Honey and 

 Occidental Ants, a nest of Lucidus was discovered just inside my 

 tent door. Its gate was a simple opening into the ground, into 

 ■which both Lucidus and her slaves were frequently passing. 

 There was a similar opening under a small bush about three feet 

 distant. The slave, or worker, was here precisely the same, 

 Formica Schauffussi, which is found so often in the compound 

 nests of both F. sanguinea a.nd Lucidus in the Eastern States. On 

 one occasion I cai)tnred a slave carrying a winged queen from one 

 opening to another. 



A comparison of a Lucidus taken at Jiellwood, at the foot of the 

 Allegheny Mountains, Pennsylvania, with the Colorado specimens, 

 shows no difference except that the Pennsylvania example is 

 slightly more robust and of a somewiiat darker color. The pecu- 

 liar uniform gloss which gives the American ant its specific or 

 varietal name, as distinguished from the duller color of the 

 European species, F. rufe)<cens, marks equally the Eastern and 

 Western representatives. The European ant is decidedly smaller 

 than her American congener. Tha Colorado F. Scliauffuasi is of 

 a more uniform and darker brown color than the Allegheny 

 Mountain specimen. 



I have no specimens of Lucidus from points intermediate of the 

 localities above named, but no doubt the species is spread over the 

 whole of our Continent.' That it carries with it its characteristic 

 habits, even its favorite domestic servant and associate, and that 

 in these respects it exhilnts the hal)its of its closely allied congener 

 of Europe, affords another intei'esting point in the geographical 

 distribution of our insect fauna. 



' P. rM/e«ce;i8 of Europe has not yet been found in the warm phiinsof the 

 South of that Continent. (Catalogue Emory-Forel, p. 450, Mitth. d. 

 Schweizerischen Entomol. Gesellschaft. ) It would be a valuable contri- 

 bution to our knowledge of distribution were we to know whether or not 

 P. lucidus is found in our Southern States. We might venture the ano- 

 logical prediction from the above habit of its European congener, that it is 

 not found in the Gulf States. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3«5 



ON THE TEMPORAL AND MASSETER MUSCLES OF MAMMALS. 

 BY HAURI-SON ALLEN, M. D. 



Systematic writers have described the temporal and masseter 

 muscles in mammals as being distinct from one another. I hope 

 to show that thej^ are, in the great majority of forms, parts of the 

 same muscle. 



I have found in my dissections that the temporal muscle,* as a 

 rule, has a deep and a superficial set of fibres. The deep set arises 

 from the floor of the temporal fossa, and makes up the greater 

 part of the muscle. Most of the fibres unite to form a tendon, 

 which is inserted upon the apex of the coronoid process of the 

 lower jaw. Many of the fibres which do not so unite are inserted 

 upon the median surface of the coronoid process ; others again are 

 continuous with the superficial fibres. The superficial set of fibres 

 arise from the temporal aponeurosis. It is continuous in the main 

 with the deep fibres of the masseter, and the fibres are inserted 

 upon the lateral surface of the coronoid process. A partially- 

 distinct slip arising from the median aspect of the malar bone, 

 and the ridge on the squama over the external auditory meatus, 

 is an accession to the superficial fibres, but possesses a tendency 

 to unite with the fibres of the deep set in the anterior portion 

 of the fossa. These fibres ma}' receive the name of the sujira- 

 zygomatic portion of the masseter. They are inserted at tiie base 

 of the coronoid process, forming a thin glistening tendon within 

 and a little posterior to the anterior border of the body of the 

 masseter. The supra-zygomatic slip is merged with the large 

 superficial mass in the dog. 



I believe that I have detected as part of the general plan of the 

 masseter muscle, when well developed, that it is composed first 

 of a tendino-muscular layer, rising tendinously from the anterior 

 part of the zygoma or the maxilla near the infra-orbital foramen, 

 and is inserted muscularly into the angle; second, of a ne.'nly 

 vertical layer, tendinous below near the angle, muscular near the 

 zygoma ; third, of a nearly vertical layer, having a disposition to 

 become tendinous, both near the angle and at the malar bone ; 

 fourth, of a smaller layer oci-upying the fossa on the lateral 

 surftiee of the ramus, and which exhibits a glistening layer of 



* For convenience the temporal and masseter will be lield as distinct in 

 the descriptions. 

 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAPEMY OF [1880. 



tendon at the origin from the malar bone. The fibres beneath this 

 are continnons, in most mammals, Avitli the supeilieial layer of 

 fibres of the temporal mnsele, including the snpra-zygomatic slip, 

 which, in some animals, is distinct in great part from the fibres 

 arising from the temporal aponeurosis. The masseter presents a gene- 

 ral resemblance to the internal pterygoid muscle, which, wherever 

 exampled, has shown these imperfect attempts at planal cleavage. 



This outline being borne in mind, it may be well to turn to the 

 descriptions emplo^-ed by writers on comparative anatomy. 



The descriptions of the muscles in Meckel (Vergleich. Anat., 

 iv, 495) are very general. The temporal is said to be covered by 

 a conspicuous aponeurosis ; the muscle to be more or less fan- 

 shaped, and gradually narrowed from above downward. The mas- 

 seter is said to be divided ordinarily into an outer, longer, stouter 

 and straight laj'^er and an inner, shorter, weaker layer, in which 

 the fibres are more or less obliquely placed from above downward 

 and before backward. 



Cuvier (Legons d'Anat. Comp., 2d Ed , iv, Ime Part, 64 infra) 

 describes the temporal in the apes, bats, insectivora, rodents, two- 

 toed ant-eater, hog, ruminants and the cony. None of these includes 

 the arrangement of fibres above given. It is true that in the ant- 

 eater the masseter and temporal muscles are united, but no detail 

 of the character of the union is presented. Mivart (Elements 

 of Anatomy, 310) repeats this statement. It is evident that the 

 union of the muscles is here thought to be exceptional. Cuvier 

 and Laurillard further describe the masseter in the bats, rodents, 

 artiodactyles, ant-eater and the cony as composed of two portions, 

 a zygomatic and a maxillary. The former is present in all ; the 

 latter is seen in the rodents,artiodactyles, the ant-eater and the cony. 



Mivart (1. c, p. 309) describes the masseter in Lagostomus and 

 Dasyprocta as follows, as of " great development : " " The masseter 

 is divided into three portions, and traverses the singularly en- 

 larged infra-orbital foramen spoken of in describing the skeleton." 

 According to the interpretation used in this, paper, the masseter in 

 rodents has even fewer subdivisions than in some other mammals. 

 Of these, at least one only passes in such direction as to permit 

 the expression that it " traverses the infra-orbital foramen ;" and 

 this part is not separable from all the fibres lying on a plane lower 

 than that of the Z3'goma. 



The descriptions of Cuvier and Laurillard of animals I have not 

 dissected, maj' be here epitomized : 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPinA. 387 



Tn the horse a small superficial slip of the tompor il .-xi-its. 

 which does uot conceal the main tendon. 



In the lion (PI. 143 and 144, fig. 2) the parts marked rrrtuu- 

 soutien and juffo-souden answer in position to the superficial and 

 supra-zygomatic fiisiculi. The slips are identified, however, with 

 the muscles of the external ear. 



In the description of the myology of Erinaceus ecaudaUis the 

 authors use the following language : " Between the crotophj'tjK 

 (temporal) and the masseter muscles in the position of the absent 

 malar bone a red muscle-fasicle is seen, which we have been un- 

 able to identifv. It is lost posteriori}- upon the <^emporal aponeu- 

 rosis, and passes under the masseter to be i .serted upon the 

 anterior border of the ascending i-amus of the mandible." 



I do not hesitate to classify this slip with the snpra-zvgoinatie 

 slip of the masseter (see fig. 2, PI. 77 of C. & L.). Nothing to 

 invalidate such identification can be pi-esented excepting the fact 

 that the slip has an alleged origin from tlie temporal aponeurosis. 

 It is in every way likel}- that either the glistening main tendon or 

 the aponeurotic texture of the superficial portion of the temporal 

 is here described. 



In the above descriptions no mention is made of the union of 

 temporal and masseter except in the ant-eater, and in none is the 

 method of description the same as employed in this paper. 



In making the dissections it was found convenient, after prepar- 

 ing the superficies, to dissect the masseter as far as the retention of 

 the zj'gomatic arch in position would permit. Then this arch was 

 sawn through at either end, and turned down. This exhibited the 

 continuity of the fibres attached to it, and the temporal. The 

 hitter muscle was then studied carefully. After this the head was 

 sawed through from right to left vex'tically (frontal cut) in order to 

 expose the arrangement of fibres on the median aspect of mandible 

 in rodents, or, in lieu of this, an antero-posterior section was made. 



Attention will now be invited to the detailed arrantrement of 

 the parts in different mammalian types. 



In Macarux ncmf^><trinufi we find the fibres of aponeurotic (iriian 

 (superficial fibres) arising as in ni:ni. In addition, a slipof fil)res 

 arising from the inner surface of the malar bone and the occipital 

 crest, passes forward and obliquely downward, to be continuous 

 with the deep masseteric fibres. This slip is the supra-zrgoraatic 

 and is believed to lie an upward prolongation of the deep 




388 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



masseteric fibres. It joins the superficial fibres on a line with the 

 coronoid process. The dee|> fibres furnish a brilliant tendon, 

 which extends forwards quite to the orbito-tf mporal septum; 

 thus differing strikingly from the arrangement in man. The deep 

 fibres are further seen to be imperfectl}'^ differentiated from the 

 intei'ual pterygoid muscle. 



The masseter muscle is composed of the following: — 1st. A 

 layer arising aponeurotically from the anterior third of the zygo- 

 matic arch, and ]-»assing obliquely downward and backward to the 

 angle. 2d. A la v er resembling the foregoing ; it arises from the 

 zj'gomatic arch at its middle. The fibres are nearly vertical and 

 end tendinously at the angle. 3d. A layer arising tendino- 

 muscularly from the posterior third of the zygomatic arch. Its 

 fibres are inserted upon the upper half of the ascending ramus of 



the lower jaw. These layers merge 

 anteriorly ; indeed, are indistin- 

 guishable at the anterior border. 



In the dog the superficial fibres 

 are much better developed than in 

 either the macaque or man, and 

 cover in the deeper fibres, while the}' 

 do not form at anj' part a supra- 

 zygomatic slip ; the general ar- 

 rangement of both temporal and 

 masseter muscles as in other mam- 

 mals. The masseter exhibits six 

 cleavages, of which the last or 

 deepest occupies the fossa ou the 

 outer surface of the ramus, and is 

 directly continuous with the super- 

 ficial fibres of the temporal (fig. 1). 

 In the coati, Nasua narica^ the 

 superficial fibres, as in the dog, 

 completely conceal the deep fibres. 

 The supra-zygomatic slip is beauti- 

 fully distinct. Branchesof a con- 

 spicuous venule which can be seen 

 lying upon the superficial portion 

 disappear abruptly as they approach the upper border of the 

 stipra-zygomatic slip. Subsequently dissection detects the trunk 



Transverse section through masseter and 

 temporal muscles (one inch behind the 

 eye), Canis familiaris. 



X, Superficial temporal fibres. 



XX^ Deep temporal fibres. 



XXX, Superficial masseteric fibre, sepa- 

 rated from X by a tendinous sheet. 



XXXX. Internal pherygoid muscle, cut 

 transversely. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



of this vein lying between the massetei* and temporal masses, 

 behind the zj'goraa. The central tendon is thicker at the root of 

 the zygoma and the bone over the external auditory meatus than 

 any other localit}' in the temporal fossa. 



The masseter has fine layers, closely resembling those in the 

 dog. The deepest layer, namel}', that one whose fibres occupy 

 the ramal fossa, has a much thicker aponeurosis than the other 

 layers, the anterior portion of the first alone excepted. 



In the opossum, Didelphys vu'ginianus, the superficial fiVtres of 

 the temporal are everywhere thick. The aponeurosis is well de- 

 veloped. The supra-zygomatic slip is not distinct. The deep 

 portion of the muscle exhibits a white glistening tendon, which 

 does not, however, extend as far as the orbito-temporal septum. 

 The anterior portion of the muscle is made up as is \isual by the 

 union of the deep and superficial portion. In addition to its 

 forming the slip passing down to the front of the base of the 

 coronoid, it sends a i)owerful bundle to the median side of the 

 coronoid, a thin movable la^er of muscular tissue, which passes 

 in front of the coronoid, between the medio-coronoid and pre- 

 coronoid portions. 



The masseter is highly tendinous superficially. The tendency 

 to cleavage is not pronounced, and the continuity of the deep 

 fibres with the superficial fibres of the temporal is very noticeable. 



In the squirrel, Sciurus hudsonicus, the superficial i)Ortion of 

 the temporal is less distinct than in man, and the supra-zygomatic 

 slip, while demonstrable, is not large. The superficial tendinous 

 layer of the masseter arises from a spur on the maxilla below tue 

 infra-orbital foramen. It passes, as is usual, downward and back- 

 ward toward the angle. This layer does not, as in most mammals, 

 form the entire superficies. A second layer arises from entire 

 inferior border of tlie zygoma, which appears to be lost upon the 

 foregoing about midway between the zygoma and the angle. Upon 

 turning this last la3'er downward, the third and last layer is seen, 

 which is continuous in the ordinary manner with tlie temporal 

 fibres. The arrangement of fibres on the median surface of tiie 

 mandible was not examined. 



In the North American porcupine, EretJiizoii dursai'is^ ihe 

 masseter consists of a superfieial set of fibres arising tendinously 

 from the malar bone, and passing downward and backwanl to thi- 

 anjrle of the mandible. It arises from tlie anterior three-rourths 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



of the lower border of the malar bone, the entire lower border of 

 the enormous infra-orbital foramen. Its insertion is not onl}-^ 

 upon the angle but the median surface of the ramus as well. The 

 last-named insertion occurs as follows : The anterior edge of the 

 muscle becomes stout and broad as it approaches the rounded 

 border of the bone in front of the angle. It winds round this 

 border, receiving as it does so a large accession from the angle, 

 and a portion of the adjacent median surface from the lower jaw. 

 This portion of the masseter lies below the jaw on the soft parts 

 of the neck. In addition to the above, a long, stout, fusiform 

 bell3- is inserted by flesh3' fibres at a point half way up the ramus 

 in front, and above the upper border of the insertion of the in- 

 ternal pterygoid muscle. 



Beneath the superficial fibres just described, the masseter in 

 Erethizon exhibits the usual tendinous fibres arising from the 

 angle and passing upward and forward. The third set is of great 

 importance in this animal. It agrees with the general plan of 

 arrangement in other mammals examined, but is remarkable for 

 its extent. It arises from the lower and median border of the 

 zygoma by tendinous fibres, from the side of the maxilla, at the 

 nasal region and supra-orbital surface of the same bone by fleshy 

 slips, also fleshy from the upper concave border of the zj^goma, 

 where fibres form the supra-zygomatic slip ; tendinous and fleshy 

 from the anterior and lower half of the inner wall of the orbit. 

 The insertion of this set of fibres is upon the ramus, between the 

 angle and the sigmoid notch. The anterior part of the insertion 

 is rounded and tendinous. It lies beneath the corresponding 

 border of the surperficial portion, and receives the fibres passing 

 through the infra-orbital foramen. The remaining portions unite 

 to be inserted as already indicated. 



The temporal muscle possesses a superficial portion, which 

 everywhere covers in the main muscle. Its aponeurosis arises 

 from the vertex, the upper border of the posterior half of the 

 orbit and the posterior and upper half of the inner wall of the 

 same depression. It thus covers in the post-orbital process of 

 the frontal bone. It is inserted entirely upon the main tendon, 

 and receives no fasiculus from the masseter. The deep or main 

 portion extends its aponeurosis forward, to be inserted stoutl}' 

 upon the post orbital process of the frontal bone. A thin apo- 

 neurosis passes downward, thence to the mandible behind the 

 coronoid. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHI A. 301 



It will be seen that the ph\n of the muscles is the same .is in 

 other mammals, but is remarkable for the muscles' subdivisions 

 remaining distinct from one another. In rodents havinj^ the large 

 infra-orl)ital foramen, the masseter muscle is described as having 

 a separate portion passing there through. Mivart, in his Elements 

 of Anatomy, page 300, says, in this connection: ''In certain ro- 

 dents, e. g., Lagostomus and the Agouti, the masseter divides into 

 three ])ortions, and traverses (tliat is, one of these portions tra- 

 verses) the singularly enlarged infra-orbital foramen." This is a 

 correct expression of the view usually taught. According to the 

 plan of descrii)tion followed in this paper the masseter of JJf-e- 

 thizon in nowise dillers from the muscles of the same name in 

 other mammals, except in the extent of development of the layer 

 to which the pre-foraminal fibres belong. I have had no oppor- 

 tunity of examining Lagostomiis, but it is probable that the 

 masseters are much alike in all. The porcupine is further of 

 interest in the extent of encroachment of the muscular fibres 

 upon the orbital space. Both masseter and temporal appropriate 

 large surfaces. It is noteworth}' in addition to find that the 

 post-orbital process is here purely muscular in significance. It is, 

 indeed, imheddfd in muscle. Notwithstanding its size, the process 

 has no septal significance in this rodent. 



In Coelogenys the temporal is thin in the temporal fossa but 

 thick and massive on posterior wall of the orbital space. The 

 superficial layer and supra-zygomatic slip arc distinct. Raising 

 these two portions of the temporal from the temporal fossa no 

 muscular fibres are seen beneath. A distinct tendon becomes 

 visible, however, underlying the junction of the superficial and 

 supra-zvgoraatic portions In the orbital space the superficial 

 portion is exceedingly robust and extends medianly the entire 

 depth of the posterior wall. The temporal is inserted into the 

 lower jaw as follows : The superficial portion arising from the 

 temporal fossa, and the zygomatic portion are inserted through 

 the main tendon upon the apex of the coronoid proeess ; the orbital 

 portion upon the median side of the same tendon and the median 

 surface of the coronoid its entire length. 



Comparing the plan of this muscle to the others described it 

 may be said that the deep part of the muscle is absent, unless the 

 greater bulk of the orbital portion is assigned to the deep part. 

 It has been generally found that the deep and superficial portions 




392 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



arc continuous anteriorly. It is probable that while the deep part 

 is absent from the temporal fossa proper, it remains in position in 

 the orbital space at a point answering to the post-septal depression 

 in animals having a partition between the orbit and the temporal 

 fossa. But while the deep part is absent from the proper temporal 

 fossa, a stout glistening tendon is here in the usual position of the 

 central tendon, and, as in Erethizon, is concealed from without* 

 It is interesting to note that the supra-zygomatic slip is temporal? 

 it being doubtful whether any of its fibres are continuous with the 

 masseter. 



The masseter bears a general arrangement to the muscle in 

 Erelhizon. The anterior edge is less muscular than in the latter 

 genus. The mandibulo-zygomatic portion, whose origin from the 

 mandibular angle occupies the lower one-third of the surface, con- 

 stitutes the massive fleshy belly. The fibres are for the most part 

 nearl}^ horizontal. It is covered for the upper half of its surface by 

 the enormous malar bone. The slip from the median surface of the 

 mandible is arranged as in Erethizon. It lies in part in front, and 

 in part beneath the internal pterygoid. Its junction with the main 

 body of the masseter conceals the tendinous anterior edge thereof 

 and is continuous with those fibres arising from the angle and the 

 basal third of median surface. The deep mandibulo-maxillary 

 portion is as in Erethizon in all essential features. It is continu- 

 ous with the superficial parts. A thin laj'er of orbital fibres 

 overlies the temporal muscle in the orbit. Another layer is 

 apparently continuous with the buccinator. 



In Dasyprocta the general plan of arrangement seen in Ccelo- 

 genys is followed. The minute points of distinction therefrom not 

 being noteworthy save the continuance of the main tendon within 

 the orbital space, where it overlies the deep anterior vertical 

 fibres. 



In Cuvier and Laurillard (PI. 245) the slips of the temporal 

 are represented as parts of a bi-peniform muscle. I find the supra- 

 zvgomatic fibres more horizontal in position, darker in color and 

 more convex than the remainder of the muscle. 



In the bats the superficial portion of the temporal may be small 

 or well developed. In the first variety a good example is seen in 

 PhylloHtoma hastatunx and other American leaf-nosed bats in which 

 forms the superficial portion is confined to the anterior fourth 

 of the temporal fossa. The supra-zygomatic slip is also very 




1880.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



39;^ 



Fio. 



The temporal nnd masscter mui^cles In a Fox 

 Bat (Epomophorus). 



conspicuous. In Artiheus the superficial fibres oecui)v the anterior 

 half of the fossa. In Desmodus the fibres are confined to the 



anterior portion of the fossa ; 

 tiiey are weak and unimportant. 

 The supra-z3'c;omatic sMp over- 

 lies the tendon of the main 

 muscle above the zygoma. In 

 Lonchoglos^a the muscle is 

 poorh' developed throughout. 

 The superficial fibres are re- 

 duced to mere rudiments. The 

 supra-zA'gomatic slip is present, 

 j^x Superficial fibres of game. The deep portion doos not 



-YA'A', Supra-zyjjomatic slip of masscter j.f.{^(.|j ^]^q vertex, 

 muscle. 1 • -n • 1 



xxxx, Masscter muscle. The muscles in Pteropinc bats 



resemble those in the American 

 leaf-nosed forms. The superficial fibres are confined to the anterior 

 third or half of the temporal fossa as seen in Pteropus mediits, 

 Epomophorus and Gyonycleris amplexicaudata. The supra- 

 zygomatic slip is relatively smaller than in the Phyllostomidte. 



In Megaderma frons and PhyUorhina bidens the parts bear a 

 general resemblance to the above group. The supra-zygoraatic 

 slip is absent in the latter species. 



In Molossus the superficial fibres are enormously developed, the}' 

 entirely cover the deep, and arise from a continuous osseous sur- 

 face at the vertex which, being broad anteriorly, narrows graduall}- 

 toward the occiput. The fibres arising from the vertex-crest, when 

 such is present, are those belonging to the superficial set. The 

 supra-zygomatic slip is present. A similar arrangement is seen 

 in Noctilio^ in which form the main mass of fibres possess an un- 

 usuMlly deep set central tendon, and the superficial layer extends 

 backward along the line of the vertex to the occiput. Lnt^ionyc- 

 ierU^ Atalapha, Vesperus and Vesperugo have an arrangement of 

 the temi)oral fibres similar to the above but vary in the degree of 

 development of the anterior slip. 



To sum up the knowledge possessed of the temporal muscle in 

 the Chiroptera it may be said that the deep ]>ortion is most ex- 

 posed in Ptci'opus and its congeners, and the family Thyllos- 

 tomididw, owiug to tlie small development of the anterior fibres. 

 In Yespertilionid;v> and Molossi the deep portion of the temporal 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18S0. 



is more concealed owing- to the greater development of the anterior 

 fibres. Those in Xoefilio appear to be directly continuous with 

 fibres arising from the occipital crest and insei'ted on the outer 

 surface of the main tendon. With respect to the masseter it may 

 be said to be simpler than the typical description given at the 

 beginning of this paper. It possesses but slight tendency to 

 planal cleavage. 



In the bovine t^'pe of the ruminants as seen in the head of a 

 calf the first or superficial layer of the temporal is continuous 

 with the masseter as shown in the above forms, the deep layer is 

 much less conspicuously developed than in them. Tlie temporal 

 fossa being shallow — and not high — the central tendon is pro- 

 duced backward and is relatively small and insignificant. It is 

 not traceable over a short distance be3'ond the top of the coro- 

 noid. 



The masseter muscle possesses six layers. The first is broad 

 and attached to the superior maxilla by an oblique line extending 

 the entire distance from the inferior border of the orbit to the 

 gum line over the first molar. The second arises tendinously from 

 the angle of the lower jaw and extends obliquely upward and for- 

 ward, halfway up the ascending ramus. The third layer is tendi- 

 nous at the anterior superficies of the malar bone, the fibres 

 arising thence including the anterior half of the surface of the 

 zygoma. The fourth layer arises from the inferior border of the 

 zygoma at its anterior two-thirds, and is inserted muscularly upon 

 the ramus about midway between the zygoma and the lower Ijorder 

 of the mandible. It is this layer which is continuous with the 

 temporal as in other quadrupeds. 



The masseter exhibits a fifth slip which appears to be a difi'er- 

 ential from the second or third layers, it overlies the teraporo- 

 maxillary articulation -in the form of a well-defined bundle which 

 arises tendinously from the root of the zygoma. It is inserted 

 on the ramus near the posterior border at about its middle. A 

 sixth layer exists in the form of a narrow, bright tendon and asso- 

 ciated fibres arising from the root of zygoma beneath the fore- 

 going. 



Nothing similar to the fifth and sixth layers were seen in the 

 other animals examined. The sixth layer of the dog being rather a 

 sub-division over the ramus in front of and remote from the joint. 

 It is every way likely, however, that the number of the lasers in 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF J'HILADKLI'HIA. 395 



niasseter will be found to he varial»lo. Tlie parts in the ninsftc-ter 

 of Ihe Virginian deer ( Coriaciift virfjiniamiH) presented essentially 

 the same fe;itnres as in the calf. The superficial layer of the tem- 

 poral reseml)les that of the calf, but the main tendon is small and 

 is without muscular fibres, as it lies behind the orbito-temporal 

 septum. The superficial portion is small. It lies behind the 

 coronoid, in the posterior superior portion of the temporal fossa. 



It must be said that the human anatomist seems warranted in 

 treating the masseter and temporal muscles distinct. Qnain. in- 

 deed, affirms that some of the posterior temporal fibres arising 

 from the temporal fascia blend with the deep fibres of the masse- 

 ter, but the union of the muscles in man is a rare anomal}'. 

 Macalister (Muscular Anomalies in Human Anatomy. Trans, 

 of the Ro3-al Irish Academy, xxv, 1872. 18.) has met with it 

 but once. I have seen it once only.' No mention is anywhere 

 made of the presence of the supra-zygomatic slip. It is (piite 

 likely that it ma}' be occasionally seen in the cellulo-adijiose tissue 

 above the z>'goma. Of the presence of any peculiarities in the 

 anthropoid apes in these muscles I am iminformed. 



The arrangement of the superficial la^'er of the tenipor.n musfle 

 in man is very similar to that seen in the (luadrui)ed. This layer 

 arises from the temporal aponeurosis, and while thin posteriorly 

 is thick anteriorly, behind the orbital septum. If this layer of 

 fibres be divided posteriorly and the anterior portion .turned for- 

 ward, a thick radiated tendon is displayeil beneath. This is the 

 tendon of the deep set of fibres which here as in (juadrupeds 

 constitute the mass of the muscle. The fibres of the superficial 

 and deep sets are continuous behind the orbital septum. This 

 method of displaying the temporal muscle has l)een lor many 

 years employed by Prof. Joseph Leidy in his demonstrations at 

 the University of Pennsylvania. 



From the above examinatiun 1 liave come to the following con- 

 clusions : — 



(1) "While it is convenient to sei)arate these muscles it nuist be 

 remembered that in many mammalia the tendency is for the mas- 

 seter and temporal muscles to unite — the deep part of the former 

 l>eing continuous with the superficial part i>f the latter. 



' In a dissection of the nniscles ill a mulatto child at term, I fomul the 

 deeper phiue of masseteric fibres arising from the external surface of the 

 temporal tendon. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



(2) Man, and some of the Rodents — the latter illustrated in 

 JSrefhizon — are exceptions to the tendency. In these forms the 

 temporal is distinct from the masseter. In the same order, as in 

 Gcelogeni/s and Dasyprocta, the deep portion of the temporal is 

 either absent or represented in a single orbitally disposed mass of 

 vertical fibres. 



(3) The muscles in question have been much neglected. They 

 should be carefully dissected in all myological studies of the 

 mammalia. 




ISSO.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PiriLADELPinA. 397 



The following reports were read aii<l referred to the Publication 

 Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT 

 Fon THE Year ending November 30, 1880. 



Nothing has occurred during the year to disturb the Societ}' in 

 its usual course. It is a source of satisfaction that its financial 

 condition is better now than it was at the close of last year. 

 Although its current income is not yet quite equal to the sum it 

 needs or desires, it still remains free from debt. 



The effort begun more than a j'ear ago to collect subscriptions 

 for the purpose of establishing a maintenance or working-fund, 

 has not been as successful as was expected. The aggregate of 

 subscriptions is now $2080, of which $1550 have been paid. It 

 may be hoped that at the close of 1881 the Treasurer will be able 

 to report that the Maintenance Fund has been largely increased. 

 The effort should not he abandoned in despair. 



In this connection it may be mentioned that an addition of 

 S3000 to the permanent fund of the Academ}' has been made by 

 reserving for investment, under a by-law (Chapter IX) enacted 

 May, 1876, all moneys received from members for commuting 

 their semi-annual contributions, as long as they may retain their 

 membership. This commutation fee is designated life-membership, 

 and the fund accruing from it is conveniently called the Life- 

 membership Fund. The income from it is applicable to the \)ay- 

 ment of the ordinary expenses of the society. 



The Charlotte M. Eckfeldt Fund, formed of money received, 

 June, 1879, from the executors of the late Mrs. C M. Eckfeldt, 

 who made the Academy one of her residuary legatees, amounts to 

 $2400.86. The income from it has been temporarily assigned to 

 the use of the Publication Committee. 



The heirs of the late Mr. Joshua T. Jeanes, who died suddenh' 

 January 3d, 1880, have generously given to the Academy twenty 

 thousand dollars, the sum which he hail indicated his intention to 

 bequeath to the Society in an unsigned codicil to his last will. 

 The money has been invested in approved mortgages, and by 

 order of the Academy constitutes the Joshua T. Jeanes Fund, the 

 income from which lias been duly made applicable, like that of 

 the Maintenance Fund, to the general puq)oses of the society. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



The Thomas B.Wilson Fund, the Elizabeth Phyle Stott,the Isaac 

 IJartou, and Publieation Funds are luichanged. OAving to cir- 

 ciunstances over which the Academ}- has no control, the income 

 of the A'ear from the I. V. Williamson Library Fund has been 

 somewhat diminished. But it is confidently conjectured that in 

 a short time it will be the same that it has been in the past. 



The financial condition of the Academy will be found detailed 

 in the Report of the Treasurer, to whom the society is much 

 indebted for the time, care and labor which he bestows in the dis- 

 charge of the duties of his office. 



Five 3"oung men have been receiving the benefit of the Jessup 

 Fund ; two for two months each, one for five, one for six, and one 

 for eight months during the year. 



A brief account of the origin of this fund, and the manner of 

 its application, maj'^ interest those especially who have become 

 members of the Societ}^ within the past few years. 



Mr. Augustus E. Jessup, who became a member of the Academy 

 November, 1818, and died in Wihnington, Del., December 17th, 

 1859, gave the institution and its purposes a high place in his 

 estimation. He had expressed his intention to bestow on the 

 Academy, if ever able, a sum of mone}^ to constitute a perpetual 

 fund for specified purposes. His children determined that this 

 intention of their father should be realized, although he left no 

 written instructions on the subject. 



In a letter dated March 6th, 1860, and addressed to Dr. Isaac 

 Lea, then President of the Academ}^, the}' stated that, in accord- 

 ance with what they believed to be the intention of their father, 

 the}- proposed "-to pay to the Academy one hundred and twenty 

 dollars per annum to be applied to its Publication Fund ; and the 

 further sum of four hundred and eighty dollars per annum, to be 

 used for the support of one or more deserving poor 3-oung man or 

 men who may desire to devote the whole of his or their time and 

 energies to the stud}^ of the natural sciences ; and that they 

 looked forward to investing in trust, at some not distant time, the 

 principals of the sums named, for the purpose of creating a per- 

 petual fund for the above-named uses." 



Substantially these are all the insti'uctions given to the Academj^ 

 for its guidance in the administration of these two funds — one to 

 be applied to its publications, and the other to the support of 

 students- aggregating six hundred dollars a year. The}'" paid 




1S80.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlIILADELrill A. 399 



this sum rogulnrly from March, ISOO. until Fehruary, lHT'2. w!»en 

 thej'^ transferred to the Academy — ''the principals of the sum* 

 named " — ten consolidated mortgage bonds of the Philadelphia 

 and Heading Railroad Company. Thus Mr. Jessup's children 

 generously fultilled their promise and realized their father's inten- 

 tion. They have also conscntt'd that wimicii ifi;i\- i-ni' v t,h<- 

 benefits of the student fund. 



The action and language of the Messrs. Jesaup imply, wiihouL 

 any doubt whatever, that their intention was to give to the 

 Academ}' six hundred dollars per annum : one hundred and 

 twenty dollars applicaltle only to the Publication Fund, and four 

 hundred and eight}' dollars to the support of students. And to 

 secure this sum to the Academy annually forever, they gave to it 

 in trust an investment, the par value of which is ten thousand 

 dollars, an amount equal, at the rate of six per cent per annum, 

 to ''the principals of the sums named for the purpose of creating 

 a perpetual fund," designed to be the impersonal successor and 

 never-dying agent of the Messrs. Jessup for the paj'ment of six 

 hundred dollars annually to the Academy. 



As trustee, the Academy is bound in honor, if not in law, to 

 adopt such proper measures as may be necessary from time to 

 time, to preserve entire not only the principal sum, but also 

 to prevent, if possible, the income from ever becoming less than 

 six hundred dollars, the specified sum it has been authorized and 

 directed to expend annually for the pur[)oses named. Reduction 

 of this income must be detrimental to those who may properly ask 

 assistance from it, to the extent of au}- diminution it may sutter. 

 It is designed to benefit students of the future as «\'ell as those of 

 the current time. The interests of those of the coming centuries 

 in it are entitled to present consideration aiul protection, if 

 needed. 



The instructions under which I he Jessup Fund for students 

 was established, describe in general terms the requisite qualifica- 

 tions of those upon whom the Academy may bestow its benefits. 



An eligible candidate for aid from the Jessup Fimd, is required 

 b}' those instructions to possess the following qualifications: 



1. Evident '* desire" to devote the whole of his time and ener- 

 gies to the stud}' of the natural sciences. 



2. ITc must be so poor as to be dependent on his own labor for 

 a livelihood, ;ind therefore, unless he can be otherwise supported. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



he cannot devote the whole of his time and eneroies to the study 

 of the natural sciences, to which he seeks to dedicate himself. 



3. lie must be " deserving " of support in this connection. 

 This condition means mucli. To deserve any support from the 

 Jessup Fund, he should possess a quick natural intelligence, 

 above the average ; a good and sufficient education, including, 

 perhaps, a knowledge of the German and French languages ; in- 

 dustrious and orderly wavs ; integrity in every sense beyond sus- 

 picion, and lastly, a manifest intention to dedicate his lifetime 

 and energies to the stud}^ of the natural sciences. 



4. He must be "young" — say under twenty-five years of age. 

 Under such conditions, and with faculties suitably equipped 



and disposed, the candidate may pass throvigh an apprenticeship 

 here provided, and become a practical naturalist. 



The application of the fund is entirely at the discretion of the 

 Academy. It would not violate the letter of the trust bj' using 

 it to support approved students of the natural sciences without 

 giving them instruction, or granting them the use of its librar}' 

 or museum or its liall as their workshop. The trust does not re- 

 quire that tlie Academy shall be the preceptor of the beneficiaries 

 of the Jessup Fund in any degree. But inasmuch as one of 

 the functions which the society has prescribed for itself is to im- 

 part and diffuse knowledge, it seems peculiarly proper that ft 

 should direct and facilitate the studies of these beneficiaries. 



The four hundred and eighty dollars may be given annuall}'' to 

 support one, or be divided l)etween two or more, as may seem to 

 the Academy expedient. The time dui-ing which any one may 

 receive assistance from the fund, is limited at the discretion of 

 the Academy. 



After due considei'ation of the subject at the start, it was- 

 determined that the approved candidate should be received at 

 first on probation, for one month, and if the trial were satisfac- 

 tory, he might be appointed a beneficiary for two years, and then 

 retire in favor of another, unless there should be special reasons 

 for his continuance. 



Inasmuch as the members of the society pay dues for their 

 rio-ht to use the library and museum, it is considered proper to 

 require the beneficiaries of the Jessup Fund to give, dail}^, a part 

 of their time and labor to the Academy, under the direction of 

 the curators, as compensation for instruction, and the use of the 




1880] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlIILADELI'llIA. 4<ll 



Academy's property. This time is cmployefl in work incident to 

 taking care of, mountiniz;. and arrangino- spucimens in the muf«eum, 

 such as cleaning them when necessary, labeling, etc., a kind oC 

 work which is pertinent to the vocation of a naturalist, and 

 through which the beneficiaries become familiarized with natural 

 objects, more perfectly than they can be in any other waj-. It 

 should not be foi-gotten that the Academy has always been de- 

 pendent, almost exclusively, ui)on the unpaid labor of its members 

 for the care of its museum, and this circumstance, perhaps, ex- 

 plains why beneficiaries of the Jessup Fund are expected to do 

 any kind of work in the Academy that the curators and other 

 members ai-e in the habit of doing. They are, in fact, regarded 

 as almost apprentices, who should be ever ready to avail them- 

 selves of the opportunities afforded to learn everything pertinent 

 to the career of a naturalist. 



Applications for the benefits of the Jessup Fund, are considered 

 and decided by the Council of the Academy. 



Between March, 18G0, and November, 1880, thirtj'-four persons 

 have received aid from the fund, for a longer or shorter period 

 than two j'ears. Of these, five have died, well known and much 

 respected naturalists. Five of those, now living, are professors 

 and eminent men. It is believed that all of this class of gentle- 

 men have accpiitted themselves satisfactorily, and that all grate- 

 fully appreciate the benificence of the Jessup Fund, as well as 

 the advantages derivable from it ; and it is hoped that none will 

 ever regret an^- of the work he has done, or the time he has spent 

 in the Academy. 



The annual reports of liie curators and librarian show tlie ex- 

 tent of increase of the museum and library ; and those from the 

 .several sections of the Academy, indicate that they are active and 

 prosperous. 



During the year, more than GOO pages of the Proceedings iiave 

 been published, and the fourth part of the eiglith quarto volume 

 of the Journal of the Academy is passing through the press. 



The proceedings of the Entomological Section are printed on 

 the premises b}' some of its members, and issued separately. 

 This section has pnblislicd nion' fliaii 'Ali) pa'jt's and T ;>latr< 

 during the year. 



The second volume of a " Manual ul" C'onehulogy, Structural and 

 Systematic, with Illustrations of tiie Species," by George W. 

 27 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Tr3-ou, Jr., published by the mithorand issued from the Academj', 

 has been publislied duriui: tiie year. It includes 289 pages of 

 text, 70 plates with 975 figures. 



Professor Leidy's admirable work on " Fresh-Water Rhizopods 

 of North America," forming Yol. XII of the final reports of the 

 United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Terri- 

 tories, under the direction of Dr. F. V. Hay den, is so closely 

 connected with the Academy, that its publication during the year 

 may be mentioned here. Dr, Leidy, at the stated meetings of the 

 societ}-, gave verbal accounts of very many fresh-water rhizopods 

 which are described in his work, and the Academy's library was 

 the sole source from which he was enabled to prepare the bibli- 

 ography of the subject. 



Few persons devote their whole time and energies to natural 

 history for a living. Generally, the study is an occupation for 

 leisure hours, and ma}^ be regarded as a secondary pursuit among 

 us, which jdelds little or nothing towards a livelihood. Satisfactory 

 study of natural history requires so much to aid its votaries, in the 

 way of collections and books, that it is extremely rare to find an}^ one 

 person rich enough to procure all that is needed. For this reason 

 many of like tastes associate, each contributing his quota, for the 

 purpose of gathering what is necessary or desirable to be used in 

 common for self-instruction. 



In one sense the Academy may be regarded as an association 

 of this kind. 



A prominent object of the Society is to afford opportunity to 

 those who desire to undertake self-culture in any or all the de- 

 partments of the natural sciences. From its beginning in 1812, 

 continuously to the present time, members have freely contributed 

 specimens to its museum, and. books to its library. Besides 

 materials of this kind they have given money liberally, established 

 permanent funds for several specific purposes, and employed what- 

 ever time they could fairly take from their daily avocations in 

 working with their own hands to render the constantly increasing 

 means of study as easily available as possible. The value of per- 

 sonal labor gratuitously given to establish and promote the growth 

 of this institution cannot be over-estimated. A result of the joint 

 efforts of the members of the society since its foundation is the 

 opportunit}^ of self-instruction here liberally afforded to those who 

 may choose to avail themselves of it. 




1880.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Although the museum is deficient in many of its departments, 

 it is remarkably suflieient in some, and as a whole is very exten- 

 sive, and in every sense very valuable. The unequal development 

 or growth of the several departments is ascribable to the depend- 

 ence of the collections for increase on donations exclusively, and 

 the want of money to purchase desiderata, and not to inditlerence 

 or ignorance of those to whom the immediate care of the museum 

 is confided. 



At this time the library as a whole, though not complete, is 

 perhaps the best collection of works on natural history in this 

 country, and the Librar}' Fund, given by Mr. I. V. Williamson, 

 provides liberally for its increase. 



The opportunity for self-culture to be found now in the mu.seum 

 and library, with all their deficiencies, is a result of the generosity, 

 goodwill, industry and benevolence of very many members and 

 friends of the Society. Some expert naturalists maj' disparage 

 this opportunity of self-culture, such as it is, and take pleasure in 

 pointing out its defects and deficiencies, but those just entering 

 the field, as well as those not yet proficient will find it full}- suf- 

 ficient for their use and worthy of cordial approbation. 



Objection has been made to the regulation which restricts the 

 use of specimens and books to the premises of the Academy, sug- 

 gesting that study would be verj* much facilitated by loaning speci- 

 mens and books to members, especially to those who ai*e advanced 

 students and experts. The answer is that the loan of specimens 

 and books, which maj- be regarded as a luxury' rather than as a 

 necessity to students, would somewhat facilitate the work of one 

 borrower, but while they were in his possession the studit-s of 

 several persons having occasion to cousult the same specimens 

 and books might be much retarded or hindered. Besides, loaning 

 books and specimens increases the cluance of their loss and injury. 



After ample experience in the practice of loaning, and due con- 

 sideration of the whole question, the Academy- adopted the exist- 

 ing regulation of loaning specimens only on a recommendation of 

 a majority of the curators, approved by a vote of the Academy : 

 and by prohibiting the circulation of books, has made the library 

 a library of reference exclusively. It is confidently believed that 

 the common interests of all concerned are best served by strict 

 adherence to this practice. It promises "the greatest good to 

 the greatest number" of those who have occasion to examine 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



specimens or consult books, because, come when they may, from 

 ftir or near, they are reasonably sure to find in the building Avhat- 

 CA^er belongs to the museum or library. 



Tlie regulation in question is approved by an experience of more 

 than a quarter of a century. It is snpposable that it would have 

 been changed long ago had the members of the societ}^ believed 

 it to be injurious to their common interests. 



It may be freely granted, liowever, that there are persons — those 

 who are seldom spontaneously considerate of the convenience and 

 riglits of others to the use of property held in common, to whom 

 all restrictive rules appear unwise — especially when they are an 

 obstacle to the satisfaction of some transient interest or desire. 

 The same individuals would probably discover a grievance in the 

 loaning system, should they find that those very specimens and 

 bopks which they desire to refer to at the moment, had just been 

 borrowed and taken out of the building, to be returned at the end 

 of a fortnight or possibly a month. Persons of such temperament, 

 unhappily for themselves as well as their associates, are prone to 

 find that " All goes wrong, and nothing as it ought," where others 

 of more happy constitution discover nothing unpleasant. 



The opportunity of self-instruction in the Academy is good as 

 it now is. It is accessible to those who may desire to make use 

 of it under the rules of the society. They must come spontane- 

 ously. The Academy is not prepared to enlist regulars, hire 

 mercenaries, or solicit volunteers in order to bring into more 

 extensive use the opportunity of self-instruction which it has 

 todiilt up. 



When both the museum and library were easily contained in 

 one small room, the effort of the Academy to increase its means 

 and opportunities of self-instruction was approved. No one com- 

 plained of its deficiencies. All cheerfully endeavored to use profit- 

 ably what it had. The propriety of admitting to its membership 

 those who possessed no other qualifications than friendliness to 

 scientific pursuits and personal respectability was not questioned. 

 But since the possessions of the Academy have grown to be ex- 

 tensive and of great value in every sense, there are individuals 

 who lament that the}" are not greater, and seem pleased to dis- 

 parage its condition, its course and its organization. Ignoring 

 all that is recorded in the sixteen volumes of the first and second 

 series of the Journal of the Academy and in the thirtj'-two 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIlLADELI'IIlA. 405 



volumes of its I*roceccling.s, thi-}' imaji^ine tliut it sadly lacks the 

 afflatus of pure science and does nothing to promote research. 

 Their tone implies that the capabilities of the institution, the 

 potentialities of its possessions might be made more useful to 

 truly qualified investigators by reforming the present sj'stera and 

 policy, which are too broadly' in the interest of beginners and 

 amateurs in science. They seem to believe that the collrctions 

 should be placed under the control of expert specialists, with 

 power to loan specimens at tlieir discretion ; that the books of 

 the library should be allowed to circulate freely, and finally, that 

 the society should consist of proficients exclusivel3', or at least 

 include a privileged class of experts. 



Whether the Academy should now permit its extensive museum 

 and library, which have cost so much time, labor and money to 

 form, to be diverted from their present ways of usefulness to 

 students generally, and appropriated by skilled investigators, is a 

 question too important to be hastil}' decided.' 



The by-law of May, 1876, which provides for the appointment 

 of professors, remains inoperative. No candidate has presented 

 himself during the A'ear. Xo report has been received from the 

 Professor of Histology and Microscopic Technology, who was 

 appointed April 10, 1877. 



In conclusion, it may be said that tlie condition of the Acaiicmy 

 has never been better since its foundation than it is at the present 

 time. It is independent of debt, and its income has been so far 

 increased that it is hoped, under a careful adrainisti-ation of its 

 financial affairs, it will soon be sutlicient to meet the usual demands. 



The whole is submitted, 



AV. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER. 



' A society compusi'd exclusively of prolicients may be ilesirable and 

 even essential to the progress of original investigation in Philadelphia. 

 Tliose who are of this ojiinion might possil^ly form such a society at once, 

 and in the coui-sc of time aciiuire all it may need ; and, Without coveting 

 or attempting to api)ropriato its possessions, pennit the Academy to exist 

 for the benetit ol" those i»roticients who approve of its organizatit)n as well 

 as of beginners and amateui-s. Some of these might become «iualitied to 

 be admitted to membership of any sooi<t\ idihiid^imI .■\.lii>i\ilv of Lrener- 

 ally recognized masters in science. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1880. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recordino- Secretaiy respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending November 30th, 1880, twenty-six members and twenty 

 correspondents have been elected. 



Resignations of membership have been received from D. E. 

 Dallam and J. D. Thomas. 



Records of the death of twenty members and fonr correspond- 

 ents have been published in the Proceedings under the dates of 

 announcement. 



Twent3'-five papers have been accepted for publication as follows : 

 H. C. Lewis, 7 ; J. S. Kingsley, 3 ; Jos. Leidy, 3 ; H. C. Chapman, 

 2 ; Harrison Allen, 1 ; R. Bergh, 1 ; Andrew Garrett, 1 ; A. W. 

 Yogdes, 1 ; W. N. Lockington, 1 ; W. D. Havtman, 1 ; Wm. Bar- 

 beck, 1 ; Angelo Heilprin, 1; T, D. Rand, I, aud F. A. Genth, 

 Jr., 1. 



Twenty-two of these papers have been published in the Pro- 

 ceedings and three in the Journal. In addition, nine papers published 

 in the Proceedings, together with reports of a number of important 

 verbal communications, formed the Proceedings of the Mineralo- 

 gical and Geological Section of the Academy for the j'cars IS11 

 to 1879. 



Two hundred and eighty-eight pages of the Proceedings for 

 1879 and three hundred and fifty-two pages of the volume for 1880 

 have been printed during the year. The concluding number of 

 Yolume YIII of the Journal will be issued early in January. 



The list of those making verbal communications at the meet- 

 ings includes the names of Messrs. Leidy, Meehan, Allen, A. J. 

 Parker, Wilcox, Koenig, Cope, Kelly, Ryder, Evarts, Frazer, 

 Dercum, Horn, McCook, Barbeck, Kingslej^ Chapman, Potts, 

 Canby, Foote, Coates, Tasker, Martindale, Pike, Ford, Halde- 

 man, Redfield, Porter and Hough. 



At the meeting held January 13th, 1880, Messrs. Aubrey H. 

 Smith and Geo. Yaux were elected to fill vacancies in the Council 

 caused by the absence from the meetings thereof for six consecu- 

 tive months of Dr. C. Newlin Peirce and Prof. Edw. D. Cope, 

 and on November 16, 1880, Mr. Ezra T. Cresson was elected to fill 

 a vacanc}^ caused by the resignation of Mr. Geo. Yaux, 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording 8ecretar,y. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. i07 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



In accordance •with the By-Laws of the Academy, the Corre- 

 sponding Secretar}' presents the following Report of the business 

 of his office during the year ending November 30th, 18S0. 



There have been elected twenty Correspondents, as follows : 



Angelo Heilprin,* New York City; Dr. C. A. White,* Wash- 

 ington, D. C. ; Albert de Selle,* Paris, France; Victor Raulin,* 

 Bordeaux, France ; R. Hocrnes,* Vienna, Austria ; Georges Hol- 

 land, Paris, France; A. Inostranzeff,* St. Petersburg, Russia; 

 Dr. Robert Schomburgh* Adelaide, Australia ; Dr. Herman T. 

 Geyler, Frankfort a. M., Germany ; Robert Casparis, Konigs])erg, 

 German}^ ; Agostino Todaro, Palermo, Italy ; J. E. Bommer, 

 Brussels, Belgium ; Prof. Teodoro Caruel,* Pisa, Ital}- ; Lionel 

 S. Beale,* London, England ; Prof. Richard Hertwig,* Jena, 

 Austria; Prof. Oscar llertwig,* Jena, Austria ; Dr. Carl Ochse- 

 nius,* Marburg, Prussia ; Dr. M. H. De Bey, Aix-la-Chapelle, 

 Prussia; Prof. Adolf E. NordenskjOld,* Stockholm, Sweden; 

 Prof. Torquato Taramelli,* Pavia, Italy ; all of whom have been 

 promptly notified, and acceptances have been received from those 

 whose names are marked with an asterisk, *. 



The donations to the Museum have been numerous and valuable, 

 as will be leamefl from the Curators' report, and promjit acknowl- 

 edgments have been sent to the various (U)nors, iiinulnriti" in nil 

 228. 



Letters transmitting publications have been recoivud iVma Cor- 

 responding Societies or Institutions, at home and abroad, to the 

 number of fifty-one; from individuals, four. 



Letters or other acknowledgments of the reeei)tion of tlio itub- 

 lications of the Academy have been received to the number of 

 fifty-two. 



In addition to the above, tliirteuM k-lU-r.s oi :i iui-ciikiiicimis 

 nature have been received, and those requiring an answer have 

 been in all cases replied to. 



Respectfully submitted, 



George II. Horn, 



Corresponding Secretari/. 




408 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1880. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



Duiinp; the past year, from December 1st, 1879, to November 

 30th, 1880, the library of the Academy has been increased by 

 2744 additions, maiul}- exchanges received for the publications of 

 the Academy. Tlie accessions have included 310 volumes, 2345 

 pamphlets and parts of periodicals and 89 maps, photographs, 

 portraits, etc. 



They -were derived from the following sources : — 



Societies 1018. 



1. y. Williamson Fund 522. 



Editors 487. 



Authors 218 



Dr. I. Minis Hayes 118. 



Wm. S. Beebe 61. 



Wilson Fund 50. 



Department of Mines, Nova Scotia, 

 23. 



Geological Survey of Sweden 23. 



Geological Survey of Belgium 19. 



Department of the Interior 17. 



Isaac Lea 14. 



.Jos. Leidy 14. 



Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 

 13. 



University of Chili 12. 



Dr. F. V. Hayden 11. 



Wm. S. Vaux 10. 



Geological Survey of Canada 10. 



Department of Agriculture 10. 



Smithsonian Institution 8. 



Engineer Department, U. S. Army 

 7. 



Geological Survey of India 6. 



J. H. Redfield 6. 



Geological Survey of Wisconsin 5. 



Colonial Secretary N. S. Wales 5. 



Geological Survey of Minnesota 5. 



Treasury Dex)artment 5. 



Geol. Surv. N. Zealand 4, 



Yale College 4. 



Minist. of Pub. Instruction, Bel- 

 gium 4. 



British Museum 3. 



War Department 2. 



U. S. Coast Survey 2. 



Kansas State Board of Agricultiue 

 2. 



Geol. Surv. N. J. 2. 



Jos. M . Gazzam 2. 



R. Schomburgh 2. 



John Brazier 2. 



Mrs. Charles Pickering. 



S. S. Ilaldeman. 



Rathmell Wilson. 



U. S. Commission of Fish and 

 Fisheries 1. 



Commissioners of Fisheries, Cali- 

 fornia. 



Mines Commissioners of Maryland. 



Geol. Surv. Kentucky. 



Geol. Surv. Indiana. 



Geological Survey of Japan. 



University of Minnesota. 



Directors of City Trusts. 



Meteorological Office, Canada. 



South African Museum. 



Government of Victoria. 



Commissioners of Public Charities, 

 Penna. 



East Indian Government. 



Bureau of Education. 



Public Library, Milwaukee. 



Astor Library. 



Library Co. Pliila. 



Mercantile Library Associations of 

 San Francisco, i?t. Louis, New 

 York and Cincinnati, each 1 . 



The books and pamphlets thus acquired were distributed to the 

 several departments of the librarj^ as follows : — 



Journals 1909. 



Geology 132. 



General Natural History 169. 



Anthropology 88. 



Conchology 68. 



Botany 61. 



Anatomy an.d Physiology 41. 



Entomology 30. 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADKLI'MIA. 4i)'J 



Oniithologj' 34. Mammalopy 9. 



Bibliojriaphy 20. Iclithyoloj^y 4. 



Physical Science 21. Voya;;es and Travels 4. 



Mineralofry ]G. Ileiijetolofjy .'5. 



Helniintholofry IG. ^licroscoiiy 1. 



Agriculture 13. Miscellaneous (Hist>>iv. >>t:iti«tif"^, 



Chemi.stry 11. Politics, etc.) 12. 



Encycloi)edias 10. 



From the above statistics and the accompanying list of aflcli- 

 tions it will he seen that, aiuiit from exchanges received from 

 societies and editors, the growth of the library h;i>i In rn mainly 

 dependent upon the I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



It gives the Librarian pleasure to be able to report the (.■()niple- 

 tion of the card catalogue of all the special department.s of the 

 librar}'^ coming within the province of the Academy. It is to be 

 hoped that some of the remaining sections, at present arranged 

 on the galler}', ma}' soon be disposed of by sale or exchange, as 

 the}- embrace books of a character rarely or never consulted in 

 the Academy ; although many of them would be of importance 

 and value elsewhere. The revision of the catalogue of joiirnals 

 and periodicals is progressing slowly, as time is taken after the 

 comi)letion of each geographical section to apply for all deficiencies 

 noted. The answers to such applications thus far made have been 

 so satisfiictory as to warrant the hope that important additions 

 will be received from this source during the coming year. 



The collection of portraits of the Presidents and benefactors of 

 the Academy has been increased by the addition of a fine oil 

 painting of Isaac Lea, LL. D., by Uhle, one of Dr. Isaac Hays, 

 In* Waugh and a life-sized crayon portrait of Mr. Isaiah V. Wil- 

 liamson. For these gifts, interesting not only as works of art, 

 but also as memorials of men to whom the society is indtbtt-d for 

 many and i)ermauent benefits, the thanks of the Acadeuiy 

 are due to Dr. Lea, Mrs. Dr. Isaac Hays and Mr. Williamson. 

 The Academy now possesses the portraits of eight out uf it*; ten 

 presidents, those of Dr. Thos. B. Wilson and Dr. Robert liridges 

 being yet lacking. It is to be hoped that these may be supplied, 

 and that the series, which will certainly be of great interest here- 

 after, may be kept complete. 



Fine framed pliotographs of Dr. Jos. Leidy and tliu lat<' VuiC. 

 Henry have been received from Mr. F. Gutekunst, and Dr. ('. W. 

 De Lannoy luis itresented a deatli ina^U of Dr. .I:inie- Aitkeu 

 Meigs. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



For the amount expended from the various funds for books you 

 are respectfully referred to the report of the Treasurer. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian, 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators respectfully report that the Museum of the 

 Academy continues in its usual good state of preservation. The 

 following report of the Curator in charge gives brief notice of 

 what has been done, and the additions which have been made 

 during the year. 



Sir: — I would respectfully report, that during the year all the 

 collections of the Museum have been carefully inspected and eared 

 for, and that they are in good condition. The vertebrate fossils 

 are in process of arrangement. 



Dr. J. Allen Kite has-been engaged in the arrangement of the 

 collection of Bird-skeletons, and Mr. Angelo Heilprin in the ar- 

 rangement of the Invertebrate fossils. 



The specimens received during the 3'ear have been labeled and 

 placed in their proper positions. 



The contributions in the various departments during the year, 

 excepting those reported on by some of the special sections, are 

 as follows : — 



Mammals. — Zoological Society of Philadelphia : Two Macacus 

 ocreatus, Macacus maurus^ Ateles ater^ Gercopithecus lalandi, 

 Pteropus vulgaris^ Herj^estes griseus, Bassaris astuta, Viverra 

 indica, two T7-agulus Javanicus, Dasyprocta acouchi, Coelogenys 

 paca., Sciurus variabilis^ Hypsiprymnus rufescens. Jacob Binder : 

 A colloidal mass with nodules of osteo-dentine embedded, from the 

 tusk of an Elephant. Dr. H. C. Chapman ; Plncenta of Asiatic Ele- 

 phant, born in Philadelphia. Dr. Geo. H. Horn: Two Atalapha 

 (Lasiurus) noveboraceyisis, Phila. Jos. Jeanes : Two 3'oung Ele- 

 phant skulls, Elephasindicus and E. africanus. Albert Koebele : 

 NycticejuH crepuscularis, Florida. Di\ Jos. Leidj' : Hespjeromys 

 (sp.). Roan Mt., N. C. ; Buffalo jaw, from a forest in the Uintah 

 Mts., portion of the great part of a skeleton observed by him in 

 the locality in which it is now extinct. Miss Miller : Horns of 

 Chamois, Alps. W. S. Vaux : Young Orang-Outang, from Phila- 

 delphia Zoological Gardens. 



Birds. — Philadelphia Zoological Society : Sycalis Jiaveola^ Bro- 

 togerys xanthoptera., Brazil ; Anser indicus. F. W. Allen : Dio- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



medea exulam^. Hill: Olnx vuhfarix. Mrs. Herbert Ilussell 

 Walsh : Two hundred and ninety -seven (one hundr»'d and twenty- 

 one species) Bird skins, collected and prepared Viy the late Kohert 

 Frnzer. 



Amphibians and Fishes. — Albert Koebele : Eleven species Am- 

 phibians, Florida. Dr. Jos. Leidy : Two species Salamanders, 

 two do. Fishes, Roan Mt., X. C. Dr. H. Allport : Erimyzon 

 sucetta^ Centre Co., Pa. S. W. Ayer : Opercular bones, etc., 

 Megalops thrissoides. Mr. llolbrook: Arfjiirieosus {Xomi^r) neti- 

 pinnis.^ Atlantic coast, Md. Dr. W. H. Jones: Nine species of 

 Fishes, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. J. E. Mitchell: Ambhjopsis 

 spelaeus^ Mammoth Cave, K3'. National Mus., through Smiths. 

 Inst. : Fifty-two species of North American Fishes. 



Articidatcs. — J. J. Brown : Lepas peclinnta, Balamis, etc., Flor- 

 ida. Dr. H. C. Chapman : Lepid not us^ and Nyniphon. Mt. Desert, 

 Me. C. Cham1)ers : Grilhjtalpa lon(ji])ennis,Vh.\\a(\Q\\)\\\n. John 

 Ford: Libinia canalicidata, Atlantic Citv, N. J. Geo. Heliertnn: 

 Libinia canalieulata, Limulus polyphemiis. Cape May, N. J. Dr. 

 W. H. Jones: Thirty-four species Crustaca, Atlantic and Pacific 

 Oceans; Nnufilograpsus minutus, taken from side of ship Aca- 

 pulco. J. S. Kingsley : Six species Crustacea, in exehanixe. Dr. 

 J. A. Kite, Wasps' nest, Morgan Co., Pa. Alliert Koebele : Two 

 species Crustaceans ; two species Myriopoda, from PTorida. J. E. 

 Mitchell: Nest of Tarantula, California. Dr. T. H. Streets: 

 Forty -two specimens Lepidoptcra , Mantis ( sp. ), Yokohama, Japan. 

 U.S. Fish Commission, through Smiths. Inst.: Thirty named 

 species of Crustacea, Coast of New England. 



Vei'Vies, Echinoderms, Coelenterate^^, Bryozoans and Pori/era. 

 — U. S. Fish Commission, through Smiths. Inst. : Thirteen species 

 of Annelida, Coast of New England. Dr. W. II. Jones : Four spe- 

 cies of Annelida, Pacific Ocean. Dr. Jos. Leidy: Lice from the 

 interior of pouch of White Pelican {Menopon pej-ale, Leidy », 

 Florida. Laura M. Towne : Filaria immilis, from heart of dog, 

 Beaufort, S. C. J.J.Brown: Cidaris tribuloidt's., Haiti. John 

 Ford: Eurynle (sp.), Palermo, Italy. U. S. Fish Connnission, 

 through Smiths. Inst. : Sixteen species Echinodermata, Coast of 

 New England. Dr. W. D. Hartman : Ilotula (sp. 1, Madagascar? 

 U. S. Fish Commission, through Smiths. Inst. : Eleven species of 

 Ctclenterata, Coast of New England. Dr. W. II. Jones : Thirteen 

 speeies Cwlenterata, Pacific Ocean. Dr. II. C. Chapman : Ilyd- 

 roids, from Mt. Desert, Me. U. S. Fish Commission, through 

 Smiths. Inst. : Fifteen species Bryozoans and Porifera, Coast of 

 New England. 



Anna T. Jeanes : Glass models of Phyf^ophora magnifica^ 

 Diph.yes Sieboldi, Cyanea vapil/nta, Oceania phus])hi>rica, Sagar- 

 tia bellis, Palylhoa am-icula, PhcUia picta, CorynacHs r/nivj/fro, 

 Nemacnla primida, Pearhia hastala, I'hyniavtis tlorida. Eractis 

 ai'leniisia, Tubularia indivi.sa, Corynwrphu nutans, Laonudea 

 amphora, Bougainvillia frulicosa. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Fossils. — Di\ Carter, through Dr. Jos, Leidy: Fragments of 

 bones of Uinfafhei'ium, Pa/a^o.sv/ops, and fossil turtle-eggs, near 

 Ft. Bridger, Wvoniing. Walter Collins : Eight species of Fossils 

 from the cretaceous marl, Blackwoodtown, N. J. Dr. Corson, 

 through Dr. Jos. Leidy: Femur and fragments of jaw of Pal re o- 

 st/ops major, and foot-bones of Uinlatherium, near Fort Bridger, 

 AVvoming. Persifor Frazer : Two fossils. Wm. M. Gabb : Fish 

 teeth, :\lartinez, Contra Costa Co., Cal. G. N. P. Gale : Shark's 

 teeth and fragments of bone, Ashley River beds, S. C. Gustavus 

 Gnttenberg : Fossil Fucoid ? near Erie, Pa. M. Hotchkiss and 

 John Gibb : Three fossils, Central coal shaft, Fairburg, Dl. Dr. 

 Geo. M. Lawrence: Ammonites (sp.). Cretaceous of Hemstead 

 Co., Ark. R. L. Lamborn : Fish tooth (carboniferous), Irwin 

 Station, Westmoreland Co.. Pa. Dr. Jos. Leidy : Ivory of Mas- 

 todon, bored by mollusks, Rib of Manatee, and two fish vertebrae. 

 Phosphate beds, Ashley River, S. C. ; Tibia of Palf^osyojys, fossil 

 turtle-eggs, near Ft. Bridger, Wyoming. Thomas Meehan : Four 

 coal fossils, Schuylkill Co., Pa. J. W. Pike : Forty-eiglit specimens 

 of fossil ferns, etc., Mazon Creek, Grundy Co., 111. J. H. Redfield : 

 Fentremites Gordonii (subcarboniferons). E. S. Reinhold : Thirt}""- 

 six specimens coal fossils, Mahanoy City, Pa. A. L. Siler : 

 Fossil (sacrum). West branch of South fork of Rio Virgin River, 

 above Glendale, Utah. Wm. Spillman : Coelorhyvchus ornatus, 

 Clark Co., Miss. Charles Wachsmuth : Forty-five species of 

 Crinoids, from the Burlington Limestone, Burlington, Iowa. 

 Harry H. Wheeler : Crinoid, cut from a side-walk paved with upper 

 Silurian Limestone, Wabash, Ind. ; Four fossil Fishes, near Fort 

 Bridger, Wyoming. 



Ethnological and Miscellaneous. — Stephen Bowers: Sixteen 

 Indian skulls, from a burial place, Santa Barbara, Cal. ; Skull of 

 Flathead Indian, Oregon ; Skull of Peruvian, Onca, Peru. Miss 

 E. S. Boyd : Hawaiian skull. Sandwich Islands. W. C. Desmont : 

 Dart, used in salmon fishing by the Digger Indians, Sacramento 

 River, Cal., 1858. Jacob Geismar : Stone axe and arrow-head, 

 Haddonfield, N. J. Prof. S. S. Haldeman : Eight pieces modern 

 Pueblo pottery. New Mexico; Tunisian drum, Timis, N. Africa; 

 Stone tomahawk, two hammers, chisel and pestle, Gloucester Co., 

 N. J. ; Stone chisel, Indiana ; Pestle, Ohio ; Stone implement 

 found on the farm of Mr. Wittmer, Lancaster Co., Pa. ; twelve 

 pieces Pueblo potter^^, New Mexico ; two stone hammers, modern 

 Sioux, and fragments of an earthen pot, from a cave, E. Tenn. ; 

 fifty-seven pieces of native potter^', two Sorcerer's chairs, Con- 

 juror's i-attle, Necklace, three bowls made of the gourd-like fruit of 

 the calabash tree (Grescentia cujeta), by the Indians of British 

 Guiana ; Native cloth. Island of Corisco. Prof. W. de M. Hooi)er: 

 Stone implement, used for skinning, Misner's Farm, Pittsburg, 

 Carroll Co., Ind. Wm. L. Mactier : Snow-shoes, made by the 

 Otonagon Indians of Michigan. Miss Miller : Antique linen shawl, 

 vase, lamp, mummied human hand, ibis, etc., Egypt. Wm. J. 




1880.] NATIRAL SCIENCES OF PHir.AKKLPHrA. 413 



Potts : Frajrments of Iiuliaii skeletons, pottery, etc., V>nnk of the 

 Delaware Kiver, below Kaiglin's Toint. Caiiulen. \. J. Jo«;. Wil- 

 cox : Fragments of pptterv, from a mound, St. John's Kiver, Fla.; 



Stone axe, pestle and arrow-head, Mitchell Co.,N. C. ? Two 



pieces Ancient IVnivian potterv. 



C. F. Paiiker. 

 Respectfully subniillcd by 



Joseph Leidy, 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MK IK >>< (H'K \ [, 



SECTION. 



During the past year eighteen (18) meetings w:cro held ; the 

 average attendance being thirty- (30) persons. 



The Annual exhibition was held on the evening ol' Oelobi-r l.jth, 

 at which time a large and interested companv was present. 



The following is a summary of the principal subjects presented 

 during the j-ear: — 



Dec. 1st, 1879. — Filarire in the Bronchial Tubes of Cattle, by 

 Dr. James McCoart. 



Dec. 15th, 1879.— Modern Microscopical Work, by Dr. .1. rjii.- 

 bons Hunt. 



Dec. 15th, 1879. — Description of Psorosperms found iu Cysts 

 of Fishes, hy John Ryder. 



Jan. 5th, 1880.— Pleuro-Pneumonia of Cattle, by Dr. John 

 Gadsden. 



Jan. 15th, 1880. — The Microscope as a means of Investiiration. 

 by Dr. Carl Seller. 



Fel>. 2d, 1880. — The Preparation of Material fur .Microscopical 

 Examination, by Dr. Seller. 



Feb. 2d, 1880. — Nuclei of the Eggs of the Common Limpet, by 

 Mr. John R3der. 



Feb. 2d, 1880. — Observations upon the Nervous System of the 

 Common Centipede, hy Mr. John Ryder. 



Feb. 2d, 1880. — Observations upon a specimen of Actinoptae- 

 rium, b}^ Mr, Edward Potts. 



Feb. loth, 1880. — The Mounting of Microscopic Objects, by Pr. 

 Seller. 



Feb. ICth, 1880. — Descii{)tion of! Ehipidodendron and Ilalteria^ 

 by Mr. John Ryder. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



March 1st, 1880. — Injecting and Special Methods of mounting 

 Microscopical Objects, by Dr. Carl Seiler. 



March 1st, 1880. — Observations upon Sponges, by Mr. John 

 Ryder. 



March 1st, 1880. — A Plan to show Opaque Objects with the Gas 

 Microscope, by Persifor Prazer. 



March 15th, 1880. — Lithological Studies with the Microscope, 

 by Persifor Frazer, 



April 5th, 1880. — Histological Studies, by Dr. Seiler. 



April 19th, 1880. — Lantern Exhibition, by Mr. Holman and 

 Mr. Ryder. 



Ma}"^ 3d, 1880. — Communication upon Fresh-water Sponges, by 

 Mr. E. Potts. 



May 17th, 18S0. — Communication upon the Eggs of the matica, 

 by Mr. E. Potts. 



Sept. 6th, 1880.— Life Forms at Atlantic City, by Mr. E. Potts. 



Sept. 20th, 1880. — Communication upon the Larvae of King 

 Crabs, by Mr. E. Potts. 



Oct. 14th and 15th, 1880.— Annual Exhibition. 



Nov. 1st, 1880. — Report of the Committee on Exhibits and Im- 

 provements in Microscopical Science at the Annual Exhibition, 

 by Dr. Hunt. 



Nov. 15th, 1880. — Communication upon the Development of the 

 Pyrulia, by Mr. Charles Perot. 



The following Members and Associates were elected during the 

 year. 



Members: — John C. Wilson, Otto Luthy, Howard Kelly. 



Associates : — Dr. Joseph Simsohn, Dr. James A. McCoart, Dr. 

 Edward T. Bruen, Dr. John W. Gadsden, Dr. Monroe Bond, Dr. 



J. H. Wills. 



RoBT. J. Hess, 



Becorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that during 1880, Dr. R. Bergh, Dr. W. D. Hartman, and Mr. 

 Angelo Heilprin have presented papers upon the Mollusca, which 

 have been accepted and published in the Academy's Proceedings. 




18S0.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'llILAUKLI'lIlA. 415 



The Section has again lost a valued member, Professor S. S. 

 Hakleman, who died September lOth, 1.S80. Professor Haldeman 

 manifested his interest by frequent contributions to our Museum, 

 as well as by papers publislied in the American Journal of Con- 

 chology. He also presented to us a nunil)er of copies of text and 

 plates of his celebrated monograph upon the Fresh-water Univalve 

 Mollusca of the United States. These the Section reissued, the 

 work having been long out of print, and the sale resulted lo its 

 pecuniary advantage. 



Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., Conservator of the Section, reports 

 as follows : 



About fifty distinct donations and purchases of recent shells 

 will be found recorded in the detailed list hereunto appended, 

 aggregating 121(5 species, represented by 4574 specimens. These 

 have all been carefully determined, labeled, mounted, and placed 

 in the cases. 



Mr. Charles F. Parker has, as usual, afforded valuable assistance 

 in preparing these specimens for exhibition. 



Mr. John Ford continues to prepare for us sections of univalve 

 shells, showing their internal form and structure. lie has pre- 

 sented over fifty of these during the year. We are indebted to 

 Miss Anna T. Jeanes for a number of beautiful glass models of 

 mollusks, and to Mr. Joseph Jeanes for a fine suite of California 

 shells, and mounted Unguals of Chitonidae, etc. 



Mr. John 11, Kedfield has presented his entire and v»i y com- 

 plete collection of Marcjinellidae. 



The U. S. Fish Commission, and Dr W. II. Jone^, U. S. X., 

 have presented numerous specimens, both in alcohol and dry. 



We have received from Dr. Isaac Lea, the type series of 

 Claiborne (Ala.) Eocene fossils, describod and figured in iiis 

 " Contributions to Geology,'' numbering 228 species. 



Mr. John A. Kj'der has prepared a drawing in outline of the 

 gigantic Architeidhis pj'inceps, Verrill ; although only ^"3 of the 

 natural size, this drawing is upon a canvas twelve feet in length. 

 It is exhibited upon the wall of the Conchological gallery. 



Our collection of fossil shells, the systematic arrangement of 

 which has been so long neglected, has at length, under the eom- 

 petent supervision of Mr. Angelo lleilprin, reeeived that attention 

 which its importance merits. Mr. lleilprin has critically studied 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



and aivnngod the wholo of the Xorth Araerieaii Eocene Collection, 

 and is now engaood upon the ]\[iocene. These shells have all been 

 labeled and mounted by Mr. Parker. A suitable label has been 

 placed upon the drawers containing the " Swift Collection," and 

 these have been made accessible to the public. The Cephalopoda^ 

 Marieidx^ rnrpuridx^ Fusidss, and Buccinidse of the general 

 collection have been rearranged in accordance with the latest 

 information wpon these groups ; and it is proposed to continue 

 this work of revision upon the other families of marine shells as 

 opportunitj'- offers. 



A rearrangement of the Land shells in accordance with the 

 natural groups of Dr. Louis Pfeiffer's " Nomenclator Heliceorum 

 Yiventium," and of the Unionidse, in accordance with the latest 

 edition of Dr. Lea's " Synopsis," will be commenced as soon as 

 possible. 



The Museum of Recent Conchology now contains 38,624 trays 

 and 136,387 specimens. 



There have been no changes made in the By-Laws of the Section. 

 The oflficers for 1881 are : 



Director — W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director — John Ford. 



Recorder — S. Ra^-mond Roberts. 



Secretary — John H. Redfield. 



Treasurer — Wm. L. Mactier. 



Conservator — Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Librarian — Edw. J. Nolan. 



Respectfully submitted, 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Recorder. 



The following are the additions to the Conchological Cabinet 

 received during 1880 : 



R. Arango. Two hundred and seventy-four species and varie- 

 ties of Cuban shells. 



W. G. Binney. Helix 3Iayra7ii, Algiers. Testacella haliotoidea, 

 England. 



John Brazier. Byth.inia hyalina., from New South Wales. 

 Eight3'-four species Land, Fresh-water, and Marine shells from 

 Australia. 



J. J. Brown. A collection of mollusks from Florida and Haiti. 



W. W. Calkins. Unio Blandingianus and Tritonidea thicta, 

 Florida. 




1880.] NATURAI. .SCIENCES OF lMlII,AI)Kl,I'ItIA. 417 



C:ilel» Cookf. Mrlania srahru, Zanzibar. 



W. H. Dougherty. Biilimui<. Schiedeanus, Coaliiiila. Mexico. 



John Ford. ^Irco jii'.rota, Sa}-, New|)ort, R. I. Five species 

 of marine shells, Atlantic City, X.J. M;//iliis Iiainntii.'<,Sa.y, IroMi 

 Seekonk River, Providence, R. I. IL-U.r fnherculosa, Conrad. 

 Sinaitic Desert. Natica du}»licata and N. heron, with nidus, ova 

 capsules of Na.s^a triviitata^ Atlantic Cit}*, X. J. Fine specimen 

 of Cassis tuberosa, Bahamas. Over fifty specimens, sections of 

 shells. 



Andrew Garrett. Partula deciissatn and /'. fjanymedes. Domi- 

 nique Is., Marquesas. P. in/lata, Taiwata, Marquesas. Partnln 

 (sp.). Moorea, Society Isles. Trorhus trochoidea. Society Isles. 

 Cardium (sp. ), I'aumotus Is. 



E. Hall. A collection of land and fresh-water shells from 

 various localities. TAventy-six species of fresh-water shells. 



Dr. W. D. Hartman. Embryonic Partulj». C'l/clnsfoma in- 

 eompfus, near Rosiota. S. A. Helix .v?»(i7rm>, Fer., Japan. Thn-t- 

 species of Parfula from Marquesas Islands. Partula Paiatensis 

 (type) from Raiatea. Partula appi'ojimata, liaiatea. 



Henry llem|)liill. Over two hundred species and varieties of 

 California shells. 



J. G. Hidalgo. Marex Tri/oni (type), Lesser Antilles. Pid- 

 nula nodosa, Brazil. 



Anna T. Jeanes. Glass models of twelve species of nudibran- 

 chiate mollusks. 



Joseph Jeanes. Mounted Unguals of thirty- -seven si»ecies of 

 mollusks. Xinety-nine species and varieties of land, fresh-water 

 and marine shells from California. 



Dr. W. H. Jones. Twenty-five species of pelagic mollusks from 

 the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Scyllaea pelagica. Oxtfgyrns 

 Keraiidrenii. 



Henry C. Lea. Twenty-four species of Claiborne Eocene fossil 

 shells, types of his descriptions. 



Dr. Isaac Lea. Type collection of Clail»orne (Ala), Eocem- 

 shells, consisting of 228 species ; arranged as described and figured 

 in his " Contributions to Geologv." Valuta Junonia, Eib^-mont 

 Key, Fla. 



Joseph Leidy. Goniohasis jtroxima, Say, IMedmont Springs, 

 North Carolina 



E. T. Nelson, Enpleurn Tampaensis, Conr., Tampa I>ay, Fla. 



T. W. Pealc. Astarte vaslonca, Say, Sandy Hook, X. j. 



John H. Redfield. ('ollectiou of Margindlida-. includini: several 

 hundred specimens of about two hundred spoties and varieties. 

 Spirit'er mucronatus, Hamilton group. 



S. R. Roberts. Macoma half/iira, Linn., Collins* Bi-ach, Del. 

 Hcli.r cioiiariKiiiira. Triria prlliiiidi{la ^ Sninlw'wU Isles. Ci/liii- 

 drella tirarilienllis, Maci'ncrrainu.-' Klatteantis, Bid. (ex ailct.) 

 Port-au-Prince, Hayti. 



28 




418 PHDCEEDlNtlS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Dr. W S. W. Rusehenbergor, Diane li(pinaria, San Bias, 



Prof. D. S. Shokloii. P/n/sa (ji/rina. young, Davenport, Iowa. 



Hon. F. E. 8pinn(>r. Seven lots of marine shells ilifty-six spe- 

 cies) from the moutli of St. Jolni's River. Fla. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Fifty-four species of marine MoUusca 

 from the New P^ngland coast, 



H. A. Ward (purchased). Ghiss models (jf six species of 

 Cephalopods. 



J. F. Whiteaves. Eight species of tluviatile and marine shells, 

 from Queen Charlotte's Isl. and Gulf of St. Lawrence. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director takes much pleasure in reporting to the 

 Academy the continued prosperity of the botanical department, 

 which, in fact, is quite equal to all that can be expected of it, 

 until, by the good fortune of an endowment, funds can be supplied 

 regularly to extend its work. Meetings have been held every 

 month throughout the year except July and August, at each of 

 which valuable communications have been made by various mem- 

 bers. Some of the more important of these have been communi- 

 cated to the general meetings of the Academy, and have found a 

 place in its published proceedings. 



The Section now consists of thirtj^'-one members, one having 

 been added during the year. 



The Conservator's report to the Section of the condition of the 

 Herbarium has been adopted by the Section as its report to the 

 Academy, and is as follows : — 



The accessions to the Academy's Herbarium duiing the past 

 year have been large and valuable, and the mounting and distri- 

 Inition of the plants received have made large demands upon the 

 time of the Conservator and of the members of the Section who 

 have kindly aided him. 



Among the valuable contributions received were the collections 

 of the late Dr. Charles Pickering, made in the years 1844-5, during 

 a journc}^ to Malta, Egypt, Arabia and India, and presented to the 

 Academy by his widow, Mrs. Sarah S. Pickering. The number 

 of species is estimated at about 1500, and, as none of them were 

 named, the labor of distributing them in their proper natural 




1880,] NATURAL SCIF.N<ES t»F Pill LA DKU'III A. 119 



onlcr (which has boon performed Ity .Mef^sr-;. Meeh:m and linrU), 

 lias been slow, but is now coniph'teil. 



From Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, im|)ortant contriluitions havr 

 been received. Dr. (Jarber has presented a colleetion of 10i» 

 species collected by himself recenth' in Porto Kico. while some 

 2.i0 species of Mexican plants, collected b}- Drs. Parry and Palmer, 

 liav^e been added. 



In the department of the Lower Cryptogams the additions have 

 been of a nearly eoniplete series of the Mosses and Hepatiea' of 

 X. America, collected and named by the late lamented Austin, and 

 l)resented b}' the liberality of members of the Section, and of 200 

 species of X. American Fungi, coUecteil, determined and pre- 

 pared \)y J. B. Ellis, and presented by Mr. Martindale. 



The total number of species contributed during the year is 

 estimated at 3100, a very large proportion of them being new to 

 the Herbarium. 



Some progress has been made in the mounting of the X'^orth 

 American Herbarium, the orders from Polemoniacea^ to Scrophu- 

 lariacetv inclusive having been completed. Mr. Scrilmer has con- 

 tinued his work upon the determination and the mounting of the 

 Grasses, though interrupted by long and serious illness. Those 

 familiar with Herbarium work can appreciate the amount of labor 

 yet rcfiuired to sift the material now upon our shelves, to deter- 

 mine the doubtful species and to mount the whole. Volunteer 

 labor "is hardh' adequate to take care of the new accessions, and, 

 until some endowment shall secure to the Academy the constant 

 work of a competent butjini^l . tin- fomplflion dT tlir ta^k must 

 remain for the future. 



Mucli inconvenience has been herelolore e\i)erienced from the 

 want of a proper [)lace to receive and disphu' such seed-vessels 

 and vegetable products as were too large to place in the herbarium 

 sheets. Such objects have necessarily l)een placed in the gallery 

 of the Museum, too distant from the l)otanical working-room to 

 be readily consulted. The liberality of a member of the Acad- 

 emy, whose aid has often supplemented its needs and sustained 

 the hands of its workers, has removed this dilliculty, and we have 

 now in the botanical room a most convenient and capacious work- 

 ing table, containing sixty-four large drawers for the reception of 

 seed-vessels, pine-cones, wood-sections, etc. 



The Conservator must acknowled<2:e, as heretofore, the eflicient 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



aid received from Mr. (?lias. F. Pinker in tlu- work of poisoning 



and arranging tlie collections received during the year and for 



other material assistance. 



.JouN H. Redpield, 



Con^cr)^ator. 

 December 13th, 1880. 



Tla- ollicers elected for the forthcoming year are : 



Director. — Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice- Director. — Thomas Meehan, 



Recorder. — F. L. Scribner. 



Gor. Secretary. — Isaac C. Martindale. 



Conservator, — John H. Redfield. 



Treasurer. — J. O. Schimmel. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehak, 



Vice-Director, 



Donations to Herbarium and Maseum. — Mrs. Sarah S. Pickering, 

 of Cambridge, Mass. : 1200 species plants, collected b}- the late 

 Dr. Chas. Pickering, in the years 1844 and 1845, in Malta, Egypt, 

 Arabia, Zanzibar and India, also lot of seed-vessels, etc. Chas. 

 F. Parker: Lechea Novae Gesarise Austin, Bergen Co., N. Y., 

 (anthor's type) ; Fragaria GiUmani, Clinton, Detroit, Mich, 

 (anther's type) ; Guizotia oleifei-a, D. C, African species, from 

 Ballast, Camden, N. J. ; Lycopus sessilifolius, Gr., Batsto, X. J. ; 

 Lycojjus Eanrpfeas., Ballast, Camden, N, J. Wm. M. Canby : 

 Phlox Stellaria, Gr., Nashville, Tenn. ; 5 species plants from Cali- 

 foi'nia, new to the collection ; 111 species of plants from Europe. 

 Syria, S. Africa, etc., many of them new to the collection. Dr. 

 Asa (jrray: 1(51 species plants from California, Arizona, Oregon, 

 Washington Terr., Tnrkistan, and Micronesian Islands, mostly 

 new to the collection. Prof. C, J. Sargent: Aster Herveyi, Gr., 

 Tiverton, R. I. ; Photographs of Conifer*, from Oregon. Geo. E. 

 Daven|)ort, Boston : Gheilanthes viscida, Davenp., California. 

 Isaac C. Martindale : Third and fourth centuries of Ellis' Xorth 

 American Fungi; Gorethrogyne filaginifoUa, Nutt, San Diego Co., 

 Cal. ; specimens of 6'asifa»fa cesca, L., var. Americana. y^\t\\ ^h- 

 normal fertile spikes, from Pitman's Grove, N. J. ; Bark of Pinus 

 mitis, Mx. ; BrickeJlia Vinccntiana. (jreene, new species, Xew 

 Mexico ; Gorrigiola titfcralis^ L., Ballast, near Philadelphia. Dr. 

 C. C. Parry, Davenport, la. : Tithonia tnljceformis, Cass., cult, at 

 Davenport, from Mexican seed ; Mexican mats and rope made 

 from fibre of /I f/r/ re heteracantha : Fibre of Agave Americana. 

 A. L. Siler, Utah : Pentstemon Sileri, Gr., nov. sp., Beaver Dam 

 Mts., Utah. Mrs. M. J. Myers, Syracuse, N. Y. : Epipactis Hel- 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK I'lIII.AliKLIMIIA. 421 



lelxjrine Rich., var. viridans Gr., near Syracuse, N. Y. Dr. Thos. 

 Lancaster: Polifporns, fjrowing on Hemlock Spruce, McKean 

 Co., Pa. Wni. H. Dons^lierty : Skeleton of stem of Opunfia iin- 

 hricafa; Capsule of llnnhuria ; 'f^t^nxs of Knpliorhia (infisifphih'tica, 

 all from Cliiliiiahua, Mexico. Aubrey II. Suiith : Mi/".-<oti.< ri'rsi- 

 rolor, Pers., Cobb's Creek, Darby, Pa. Thomas Bland, N. York : 

 Wax, from the leaves of the Carnauba Palm ( Coprriiir-in ri'rifera ); 



AVhi]) from the bark of . Jamaiea ; Paper from the fil)re of 



Plantain and Banana, Jamaica ; Mi/ris(ica f'rafiraiis, Houtt.. Nut- 

 meg with its Mace and outer husk, Jamaica ; Seeds of the follow- 

 ing plants from AVest Indies: Lucuma iiiouitiosa, Gris., Fi'nilU-a 

 cordi/oHa, Ser., Coix lacJn'ijma^ L.. Sopindus saponaria, L., 

 A(/enanthera pavonina^ L., Ahrus jjrecaforms, L., GuiJandina 

 Bondiic, L., Anocardium occidenlale . L., Guilandina lionduceUa, 

 L. : Wood of the Down tree (Ochroma Lagopus). Thos, Meehan : 

 Pellaea at ropurpuri'a^ Link., collected in Southern Utah, by A. 

 L. Siler ; Sedum Mi'i'lianu Gray, collected in Sontheni Utah, by 

 A. D. Siler. Isaac Burk : Wood of Ileritiera. Africa. Dr. A. P. 

 Garber : 9.5 species of plants, collected by him at Yanco. Porto 

 Kico, in 1880, named by Dr. Gray and Mr. Oliver of Kentucky. 

 John H. Redfield : 217 species plants collected by Dr. C. (". Parry 

 and Dr. E. Palmer, near San Luis Potosi. Mexico, named at Kew 

 and Cambridge ; :u species Ferns, collected by A. Fendler. in the 

 Island of Trinidad, W. I., in 1879-80, supplementary to a collec- 

 tion presented in 1878. named liy Prof. D. C. Eaton: 7 species 

 plants from Florida and Tropical America. J. II. Redfield, J. C 

 Martindale. Thos. Meehan, Wm. M. Canby, Dr. Chas. E. Schatier, 

 Dr. J. Bernard Brinton : Complete set of the Mosses and Ilepatica* 

 of N. America, collected and named by the late Coe F. Austin, 

 consisting of .518 species of Mosses and 124 species of llepaticie. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 

 The Entomological Section, throughout the jiast year has held 

 its regular meetings, excepting during tlie months of July and 

 August. Most of the meetings have been (Hiite interesting, owing 

 to the many original communications, both verbal ami written, 

 that have been presented. These leetures, as thev may be called, 

 were devoted to illustrating some of the variations of form, etc., 

 of many entomologieal species and genera. At the same time 

 opportunity has been afforded to those so desiring, to tlescribo 

 new species of the entomological faun:i. and to present tlieir ob- 

 servations to the public. That the claims of priority of description 

 thus made, might not be lost by tiie several authors, such eom- 

 mtmications have been condensed and published in the Proceedings 

 of the Section. The more full and complete p.-ipers areas hereto- 




422 PROCEEIMNGS OF THE ACAl^KMY OF [1880. 



lore, pultlishoil in the Transactions of the Aniovican Entomologi- 

 eal Society. There have been eight pai)ers presented and pnblished 

 by the latter .society during the year, comprising 338 pages of 

 jtrinted matter in octavo tbrni, illustrated by seven i)lates. This, 

 in connection with 24 pages of the published Proceedings of the 

 Section make a total of 3(')2 pages of entomological publications 

 issued since last annual meeting. 



The entomological collections of the Academy have been care- 

 fully attended to through the year, by the Conservator, Mr. Geo. 

 B. Cresson, and have been preserved from all infection or loss. 



By the death of Mr. James Ridings, in July, the section lost 

 one of its most valued members. Mr. Hidings was one of the 

 founders of the American Entomological Society, and thi'ough his 

 many valuable discoveries was well known among the entoniok>- 

 gists of the United States. 



At the annual meeting of the section, held December 13th, the 

 following gentlemen were re-elected as officers for the ensuing year: 



Director. — John L. LeConte, M. D. 



Vice-Director. — George 11. Horn, M. D. 



Treasurer. — E. T. Cresson. 



Recorder. — J. H. Ridings. 



Conservator. — Geo. B. Cresson. 



Pi'hUcation Committee. — George H. Horn, M. D. 

 Samuel Lewis, M. D. 



At the last annual meeting of the American Ilntomological 



Society the sum of sevent3'-five dollars was contributed towards 



the funds of the Academy. 



Respectfully submitted. 



James II. Ridings. 

 Recorder- 



REPORT OF MTNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL 

 SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would 

 respectfully report : 



Meetings of the Section have been held monthly, except during 

 SnXy and August. The attendance has been good. A nimiber of 

 interesting papers were read, and man}' valuable communications 

 and donations made. During the year, the fii'st volume of its pro- 

 ceedings was published, containing scientific papers and co)nmu- 

 nications to January 1st, 1880. The collection of local rocks and 




IBJ^OJ NATl KAL SCIENCKS (IF I'lllI.ADKI.I'MIA. 423 



minerals has outgrown the phice provided I'or it. It is almo.st 

 comi)lete as to the rocks of Phihidelphia, and of Dehiware, Mont- 

 gomery and Bucks counties. Believing, as he does, that this 

 collection will grow into one of great importance and interest, he 

 is glad to state that the desire of the Section for a l»etter location 

 for it has been granted by the Council of the Academy. 

 Resnootfully sultmitted, 



ThEO. D. liAND. 



Diri rt'>r. 

 I'lULADELPUiA, December 27th, 1S80. 

 To llii' Director of the Mineralofjical and Geological Section: 



The mineral collection of the Academy has been imi»roved 

 during the past year by the addition of the usual number of dona- 

 tions. These have been carefully labeled and placed in the eases 

 b}' Mr. Charles F. Parker, to whoso industry and care we are 

 chieriy indebted for the satisfactory arrangement and labeling of 

 all our specimens. I submit with this a list of the donations 

 during the past year. The collection is in a satisfactory con- 

 dition. 



Joseph Willcox, 



Conservator. 



Additions to Mineralo[iical Catnnet dvriiHj the i/ear ISSO: — 

 Jas. W. Beath : Twenty-five si)eciniens of polished Agates, from 

 Oberstein, Germany, and Paraguay ; Crocidolite, S. Africa. C. S. 

 Boutcher: Proustite, Gunnison. Co.. Colorado. Walter Collins : 

 Asphaltum, Cretaceous Marl, Blackwoodtown, X. J. Chas. Doble : 

 Millerite, Chalcopyrite and Niccoliferous Pyrrhotite. Gap Mine, 

 Lancaster Co., Pa. W. 11. Dougherty : Native Gold, also a tine col- 

 lection of Native Silver, Silver ores. Argentiferous Galena, Ruby 

 Silver, Cassiterite, etc., Mexico; Green Sand, San Antonio River, 

 Texas. John Ford: Stilbite, Frankford. Pliilada. : Actinolite, 

 Hornblende, Lafayette. Montgomery Co., Pa. John Garvin: 

 Native Gold in Quartz, Battle IJranch.Ga. K. Goldsmith: Tiignite, 

 containing Fichtelite, Brazil Prof. S. S. Ilaldeman : Stalactite, 

 and six siteciinens of Agates, Argentine llepublic. F. P. Hancock: 

 Two specimens Jetlersonite. Steiling, Stissex Co., N.J.; Thorite, 

 Brevig. Norway. W. W. Jerteris: (.Quartz pseud, after Dog-tooth 

 Spar; Piciolite ( Slickenside,) Newlin, Chester Co.. Pa ; Wavellite. 

 E. Whiteland, Chester Co., Pa. Dr. (J. A. Koenig : Jarosite, 

 Chartee Co., Colorado. Dr. Isaac Lea : Amazonstone, and a tine 

 specimen of Sunstone, near Media, Del. Co., I'a. Dr. Jos. Leidy : 

 Three specimens of Takose Slate, Soapstone (.^u:u'rv, shore of the 

 Delaware l\iver, above Easton, Pa.; Corundum, Laurens Co.. S. C. : 

 Biotite, Steatite Quarry on Pushkill Creek, near Easton. Pa. H. 

 C Lewis: Phil;i(h'lpliite. IMiila. ; liyiditc. (iermantowu. Philn. ; 




-^24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



Halite, Saltville, Va. Wm. Loronz : Chiysotile, Canada. Mr. 

 Lover : Coruudum, Chester Co., Pa. Miss Miller : Crystals of 

 Silver, Lake Superior; Hematite, (xypsum, Stalactite, Chloras- 

 trolite, Halite, etc., from various localities. Dr. Weir Mitcliell : 

 Silicitled Wood, Missouri River, above Bismarck. L. Palmer: 

 Albite, Yermieulite.Del. Co.,Pa. Theo. D.Rand : Kammererite ami 

 Chromite, Radnor, Del. Co., Pa. ; Crystallized Quartz in Potsdam 

 Sandstone, ^font. Co.. Pa. ; Herrengrundite, Herrengrnnd, Hun- 

 gary; Orile3ite. Burmali. J. L. Reed: Asbestus, Ital^- ; Chrys- 

 otile, Ontario, Canada. T. W. Ried : Clialcopyrite. Montgomery 

 Co., Pa. Dr. W. S. AV. Ruschenberger : Copper Slag, Caldera, 

 Chile, 185(5. Dr. J. Richard Taylor: Cerargyrite, Chloride of 

 Silver, with fractured Wavellite crystals, Galena with free Sulphur, 

 Millerite, and argentiferous Carbonate of Ijead, Leadville, Colo- 

 rado ; Ore from the Ohio Mine, l^earing (Jold, Silver and Copper, 

 Breckenridge, Col. C M. Wheatlej^ : Fine specimen of Byssolite, 

 Chester Co., Pa. ; Azurite on Clialcopyrite, LTpper Salford Mine, 

 Montgomery" Co., Pa. ; Aurichalcite on Calcite, and white Apatite 

 with Byssolite; Chalcopyrite, Pvrite and Melaconite, Jones Mine, 

 Berks Co., Pa. Dr. Jas. W, White : Corundum, Zircon, Storeville, 

 Anderson Co., S. C. ; Corundum, Concord, N. C. ; Andesite with 

 Corundum, Hog-back Mt .N. C. ; a collection consisting of /incite, 

 Rutile, Phlogopite, Graphic Granite, Chesterlite, Fibrolite, Garnet, 

 Damourite, Stalagmite, etc., from various localities. Joseph 

 Willcox : Autunite ( Uranite), Mitchell Co., N. C. ; P^'roxene, 

 Biotite ?, Apatite, Burgess, Ontario, Canada ; Corundum coated 

 with Margarite, Iredell Co., N. C. ; Danburite, Russel, St. Law- 

 rence Co., X. Y. ; Black Tourmaline, Westport. Ontario, Canada; 

 Scapolite, Pyroxene, and four specimens of Apatite, Bob Lake, 

 Ontario, Canada. A. E. Foote, in exchange for duplicate books: 

 nine specimens of Apatite, Renfrew, Ontario, Canada; Chrysotile, 

 four specimens of Titanite (Sphene), Titauite (Lederite), two 

 Vesuvianite, Berjd, Triphyllite, Celestite, Wollastonite, Gummite, 

 Uranotile, Tourmaline, Octahedral Crystals of Fluorite, with 

 Apatite and Calcite, from various localities. Purchased : Limon- 

 ite, Superior Mine, Michigan. 



Additions to Bock (JoUection. — John Ford : Hornblende, Soap- 

 stone Quarry, Lafayette Pa. ; Tourmaline and Hornblende Schist, 

 Tunnel near Girard Ave. Bridge ; Decomposing Gneiss with Mica, 

 ditto with Quartz, ditto wMth Manganese?, near west end of Cal- 

 lowhill St. Bridge, Philadelphia. G. H. Ivens : Geode of Limonite, 

 Kent Co., Md. W. AV. Jefferis : Gneiss. John Hartman : Two 

 specimens of Crystalline Slag, taken from hearth of Blast Furnace, 

 Charlotte, X. Y. Dr. Jos. Leidy : Talcose Slate, Soapstone 

 Quarry, Pot Rock, Delaware River, above Easton. Pa. ; Indurated 

 Clay ( Bridger Eocene), near Fort Bridger, Wyoming. H. C. 

 Lewis : Glacier-scratched boulder, Belvidere, N. J. Theo. D. 

 Rand : Twent3'-seven specimens of Rocks, from the neighborhood 

 of Philadelphia, for Local Rock collection ; three specimens of 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HII,AHELPHIA. 425 



slags, from Puddling Furnace, Coatesville, Pa. Joseph II. TuU : 

 Six specimens of Ruby Silver, near Austin, Nevada. 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. IIENSZEY, 

 Treasurer, for the year ending Nov. .30, 1880. 



Dr. 



To Balance from last account $1032 W 



" Initiation fees 2:^0 0<t 



" Contributions (semi-annual contributions) 2244 9s 



" Life Memberships .500 00 



" Voluntary ("ontributions from Life Members Ol-j 00 



" Admissions to Museum 



•' Sale of Guide to Museum 



" " Duplicate Books : 



" Donation from Mineralogical and G. Section towards 



Proceedings 



" Donations towards Plates for Proceedings 



'• Interest on Deposits 



'• Interest on Phil, and Erie Railroad Bon<ls 



•' Life Member Fund. Interest on Investment 



" Maintenance Fund. " " " 



" Publication Committee. W. S. Vaux, Treasurer 



" Publication Fund. Interest on Inveslnaents 



" Barton Fund. " " " 



" Wilson Fund. Towards Salary Librarian 300 (iO 



" Freight returned 4 30 



" Phil a. and Erie Railroad Bond, Ti-ansferred to Mainte- 



tenance Fund 1000 00 



|!7763 40 



Cr. 



Salaries, Janitors, etc $2%0 00 



Freight 00 .50 



Inspecting Boiler 10 20 



Repairs 188 05 



Insurance 30 Oo 



Jars and Bottles 74 11 



Coal 195 .50 



Gas 177 27 



Mounting Bird 1 25 



Stationery and Postage Stamps 13i) 55 



Books '1 50 



Alcohol 37 f.O 



Publication Committee. W. S. Vaux, Treasurer ••3 33 



Newspaper Reports 64 00 



Water Rents 2<; l."> 



Trays 42 OO 



Binding 118 40 



Printing and Paper 153!t tJ;! 



Plates and Printing 142 .'>2 



Miscellaneous 448 54 



Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership Fund. 500 00 



t;852 l'.» 



Balance' *'.'ll 21 



' During the year there was recciveil from voluntary contributions and 

 donations ^6t;0, which, with a Bond for $l(»tM), used for generiil purposes, 

 indicates that the current expenses exceed the regular income over J!lt300, the 

 balance at the close of the year being a little less than at llie commencement. 




42(5 PROCEEDIiNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1880. 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FIND. (For Maintenance.) 



Balance i>er last Statement $500 00 



Life Memberships Transferred to this account 500 00 



Interest 120 00 



$1120 00 

 Transferred to General Account 120 00 



To Balance for Investment. $1000 00 



BARTON FUND. (For Printing and Illustrating Publications.) 



Balance per last Statement $240 00 



Interest 240 00 



$480 00 

 Transferred to General Account 240 00 



Balance $240 00 



.JESSUP FUND. (For Support of Students.) 



Balance last Statement $551 67 



Interest on Investments 560 00 



$1111 67 

 Disbursed 590 00 



Balance $521 ti7 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Total amount received $1550 00 



Interest 30 00 



Less paid for Printing 



Invested in Bonds Phila. and Erie Railroad. 

 Interest Transferred to General Account 



Balance $526 35 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance $330 26 



Rents Collected 97 00 



Ground rents Collected 1096 00 



$1523 32 



For Books $577 56 



Expenses Sale of Prop'ty for arrearages of Ground-rent... 167 25 



Costs, Insurances, etc 37 47 



Repairs to Properties 232 37 



Taxes 204 02 



"Water Rents 41 40 



Collecting 53 70 



1313 77 



Balance $209 55 




1880.] NATtlUAF. 8CIENCKS OV I'lII I,AI>EI,1M1IA. 427 



I'l'BLK'ATloN FIND. 



Balance last Statement $-!'iH 25 



Income from Investments 350 00 



S68.S 25 



Transferred to General Account 280 00 



To Balance ^U^^ 2'. 



THOMAS H. WILSON L11U5AKV FIND. 



Balance last Statement $141 57 



Interests on investments 570 00 



Received from W. S. Vaux for Duplicate Books S 00 



$7T.> 57 



Paid for Books S800 00 



" Binding 11 55 



To General Account towards salary of Lihntrinn •'^>00 00 



.f;i;ii 55 



Balance $h*> 02 



MRS. STOTT FUND. (For Publication.) 



Tv/elve Months' Interest ^^\•2 00 



Paid to (W. S. Vanx) Publication Committee 114 00 



JOSHUA T. .lEANES FUND. (For Maintenance, i 



Bequest by him paid by Heirs .•?2O,O00 00 



Invested in three Mortgages .^7000 00 



80O0 00 



10,000 00 



3:20,000 00 



ECKFELT Fl ND. 

 To be invested ?->46G 86 




428 



PROCEKDINOS OP ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. [1880. 



Tlie election of ollieers for 

 result : — 



President, . . ^ . 

 Vice-P}'eside)if><, 



Recording Secretary^ 



Gorrespon ding Secret o nj , 



Trea.-^urer, 



Librarian, 



C'lD'ator.'i. 



Goiincillors to )ierm llrrce 

 i/ears. .... 



Finance Gommifiee, 



1881 was held, with the following 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Wm. S. Vnux, 



Thomas Median. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Geo. H. Plovn. M. D. 



Wm. C. llenszey. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Wm. S. Yaiix, 



Chas. F. Parker, 



R. S. Kenderdine, M. D. 



Wm. L. Mactier, 



Aubrej^ H. Smith, 



Henry C Chapman, M. P., 



Geo. Y. Shoemaker. 



Edw. S. Whelen, 



Clarence S. Bemeut, 



Aubre}' H. Smith, 



S. Fisher Corlies, 



Geo. Y. Shoemaker. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1880. 



MEMBERS, 



January £7.— A. R. Thomas, M. D., Wm. H. Jenks, John S. 

 Jenks, Chas. W. Pickering, Henry F. Formad, M. D., Charles P. 

 Tasker, John Wagner, Ferris W. Price, Geo. W. Biddle. 



February 24. — R. S. Huidekoper, M. D., Frances Emily White, 

 M. D., David Townsend, Thos. Miles, John S. Capp. 



March SO, — Paris Haldeman, Geo. B. Heckel, Emlen Physick, 

 M. D. 



May ^5.— Henry S. Gratz, R. S. Peabody, Mrs. R. S. Peabody, 

 Wm. Barbeck. 



October ,?^.— Rev. Wm. F. C. Morsell, Samuel R. Knight, M. D. 



November SO. — Charles S. Turnbull, M. D., James M. Anders, 

 M. D. 



For list of Correspondents elected see Report of the Corre- 

 sponding Secretary. 




ADDITIONS TO IJllKAllV. 42'.> 



ADDITIONS TO IJIIKAKV 

 December 1st, J S7U— November 30th, 1880. 



Abbot, E, H. Physics and hyiliaulics of the MisBissippi River. I)r. 1. 



Minis Hays. 

 Allen. J. A. U. S. Geol and Geogr. Surv. of Ter. Miscellaneous publica- 

 tions, No. 12. History of North American Pinnipeds, 1H80. The 

 Department of the Interior. 

 Allen, T. F. Characea^ of America. Pts. 1 and 'J. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Allis, 0. A. Deformity from fracture.s at the lower end of the humerus. The 



Author. 

 Alumni Association, Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 10th annual report. 



The Society. 

 American Angler's Guide. ;->d Ed., 184!i. S S. Haldeinan. 

 American Mus»um of Natural History. 11th annual report. The Director. 

 Annual record of science and industry for 1878. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Arango, R. Contribucion a la fauna malacologica Cubana. The Author. 

 ArchiBological Section of the St. Louis Academy of Sciences. Contributions 



to the archivjology of Missouri. Part I, Pottery. The Academy. 

 Astor Library, olst annual report, 1880. The Trustees. 

 Baillon, M. H Dictionnaire de botanique. 12nie Fasc. 



Natural history of plants. Vol. fi. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Balfour, F. M. Comparative embryology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Barber, E. A. Comparative vocabulary of Utah dialects. The Author. 

 Bdrcena, Mariano. Terrcmoto del 17 de Maj o de 1^79 



Viaje a la Caverna de Cacahuamilpa, 1874. The Author. 

 Datos para el esiudio de las rocas mesozoicas de Me.vico, y sus fosiles 

 caracteristicos, 1875. Di'. Jo.s. Leidy. 

 Barrande, J. Brachiopodes. Vol. 5, 1870. The Author. 

 Beale, L. S. How to work with the microscope, oth E'l. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Bentham, G. and .1. D. Hooker. Genera plantarum. Vol. ;!, Pt. I. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Berg, Dr. C. Observaciones acei'ca de la familia Hyponomeutidjo. 

 Apuntes Lepidupterologiques. 

 Hemiptera argentina, 187'.'. 

 La Reina de las Flores, 1880. The Author. 

 Binney, W. G. North American species of Zonites. The Author. 

 Board of Directors of City Trusts. Ktth annual report. The Bonril. 

 Bocage, .1. V. Barboza de. .Melanges ornithologii|ue.*, V. 

 Liste des Antilopea d' Angola. 

 Algumas observa(,"oes e additamentos ao artigo do Sr. A. C. Smith iuiiiu- 



lado "A sketch of the birds of Portugal." 

 Note sur une nouvelle espoce africaine du genre "Coi-acias." 

 Aves das possesoes portuguezas d'Africa occidental, 14th and lUth Li.st. 

 Subsidies para a fauna das pos. portuguezas d'Africa occidental. 

 Aves da Zambezia e do Transvaal. Tiie .Vuthor. 

 Bohnensieg. G. ('. W. and W. I'lurck. i'.eperlorium annuum literalune boian- 

 ic:o periodica-. T. 5, 1^70. 

 Encyklopa'die der Naturwissenschaften. le Abtii., s Lief., 18S0. 1. \\ 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Bolton, H. Carrington. Table showing the behavior of certain minerals with 



Citric Acid alone and with reagents. Tlie Author. 

 Bommer, J. E. Monographic de la classc des Fougi-res, lsr)7. Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden. 




430 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Bon-e. A. I'reuJbomnie de. Especes de la tribu des Foronides qui se rencon- 

 trciit en Belgique. Ire rartie. 

 F.speces des tribus des I'rttiajrcides, des Loricerides, des Licindes, des 



ChUvniides et des Broscides iiui se rencontrent en Belgique. 

 Uc la meilleure disposition il donner aux caisses et cartons des collections 



d'insects 

 Note sur le Breyeria Borinensis. The Author. 

 Brazier, J. Synonyms of, and remarks upon I'ort .Jackson, New Caledonian 

 and other shells, with their distribution. 

 Brief account of the natives of western Australia, 1879. The Author. 

 Brehms Thierleben. 8 Bd., 1-S Heft. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Brevicre, L. Catalogue des mollusques observes dans le Department de la 



Nicvre. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Broun, H. (j. Morphologische Studien Uber die Gestaltung-Gesetze der Na- 

 turkiirper iiberhaupt, und der organischen insbesondere. 1858. Dr. 

 .Jos. Leidy. 

 Thier-Reichs. Ger Bd., III. Abth., 2-12 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Briihl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas. Lief. 14 & 15. 1. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Brun, .r. Uiatomees des Alpes et du Jura. L V. Williamson Fund. 

 Brush, Geo. .J. Mineral locality at Branchville, Connecticut. 4th paper. 



The Author. 

 Buchanan, J. Manual of indigenous grasses of New Zealand. Wellington, 



1880. Geological Survey of New Zealand. 

 Bureau of Education, circulars of information, Nos. 2 and 3. Department of 



the Interior. 

 Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department, quarterly reports, Sept. 30, 1879- 



.June 20, 1880. The Department 

 Butler, A. G. Illustrations of typical specimens of Lepidoptera heterocera in 

 the collection of the British Museum. Pt. 14. The British Museum. 

 Calkins, W. W. American conchology. Catalogue of Uniones. 1880. The 



Author. 

 Cameletti, .J. 11 binomio di Newton. The Author. 

 Catalogue of the Queensland Court, International Exhibition. Sydney, 1879. 



J. Brazier. 

 Catalogue of the officers and students of Yale College, 1879-80. The College. 

 Catalogus der ethnologische Afdeeling van bet Museum van het Bataviaasch 

 Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 2e Druck. The Society'. 

 Central Park Menagei-ie, report of Directors, 1879. The Directors. 

 Chambei'S, V. T. President of Cincinnati Society of Natural History, annual 



address, 1879. The Author. 

 Chapman, II. C. Memoir of James Aitken Meigs, M. D. 



Lecture introductory to the course of Jefferson Medical College for the 

 session of 1880-81. The Author, 

 ('hatin, J. Les organes des sens dans la serie animale. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Chief of Engineers, report, 1878. Parts 1, 2 and 3. Engineers' Department, 



U. S. A. 

 Chief Gold Commissioner for the Province of Nova Scotia, report, 1863. De- 

 partment of Mines. Nova Scotia. 

 Chief of Ordnance, annual report, 1879. War Department. 

 Chili. Mcmoria de Guerra i Marina, 1878. 

 Memoria de Uelaciones Esteriores, 1879. 

 Memoria de Ministro de Justicia, etc. 1879, 

 Memoria de Ministro del Interior, 1879. 

 Projecio de Codigo rural, 1879. 

 Anuaria hidrografico de la Marina de Chili, Auo V. 

 Anuaria de la Oficina central meteorologica, 1874. 

 Anuaria estadistico, 187fi-77. 




ADDITIONS TO IJHHAIIY. 431 



Sessiones estraordinaiias tie la (Jaiiiara de Senadores, 1M7X, Nos. 1 k 'I. 

 Sessiones estraordinarias de laCamara de Disputados, 1878, Nos. I, 2 & 4. 

 Estadistica Agricola 1877-78. 



Estadistica bibliografica de la Literal iira Chilena, T. 2. UniTersily of 

 Chili. 

 Church, .J. A. New inetho<ls of ore concentration and gidd amalgamation. 



The heat of the Comstock lode. The Author. 

 Clement, Ch. Constitution Geologii|ue de Luxembourg. inr, j. Dr. F. V. 



Ilayden. 

 Cobbold. T. S. Parasites. 187'.*. I. V. Williamson Fund 

 Cohn, Ferd. Biologie der Ptlanzen. Ill, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 <'olbeau, J. A. J. Matcriaux pour la Faune malacologique de Belii|ue. I. The 



Author. 

 Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of New Zealand, 14th .\nnual re- 

 port. 187'.t. 

 Kaport of Geological Explorations, 1878-7'J. The .Vuthor. 

 Commission de la Carte geologique de Belgique, Hoboken et (.'onticli, Anvers, 

 Lennick-StQuentin, Malines, Lierre, Heyst-op-den-Berg, I'utte and 

 Boom, with maps. The Commission. 

 Commiss'oner of agricultui-e, report, 1878. The Author. 

 Commissioner of Fisheries of the State of California Report 187>< arid 187'". 



The Commissioners. 

 Commissiooers of Public Charities of the State of Pennsylvania. Tenth an- 

 nual report, .Jan. 1880. The Board. 

 Comptroller of the Currency, annual report, 1879. The Author. 

 <'ope, E. D. On the foramina perforatint; the posterior part ot th<' ^.jMainosal 

 bone of the mammalia. 

 On the genera of the Creodonta. The Author. 

 Cresson, E. T. and Edw. Norton. Tenthredinida? and UroceriiliL' uf North 



America. The Author. 

 Cuvier, G. Revolutions of the surface of the globe. 1831. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Dana, .J. D. Manual of geology, 3d Ed.. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dawkins, W. B. Early Man in Britain and his place in the Tertiary period, 

 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The classification of the tertiary perioil by means of the mammalia. 

 Further discoveries in the Cresswell Caves, 1879. The Author. 

 Dawson, Geo. M. Geological map of a portioii of the southern interior of 



British Columbia. Geological Survey of Canada. 

 UeCandolle, A. and C. Mouographiac phanerogamarum prodrouii. Vol. 2. 



1870. Wilson Fund. 

 Decken, C. van der. Reisen in Ost-Afrika. :!er Bd., 111. .\l>th. 1. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 De (Jlerc<[, F. S. A. llet Maleisch der .Molukken, lS7<i. Batavian Academy 



of Sciences. 

 Department of Agriculture. Special Report, Nos. 20-27. 



Circular regarding need^ of. The Department. 

 Department of .Mines, Nova Scotia, reports, 1802, 18(J4, 18G5, 18f.7-1870. De- 

 partment of Mines, Nova Scotia. 

 Same, 18114. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Department of Statistics and Geology of the State of Indiana, 1st annual report, 



187'.'. The Department. 

 Deshayes, G. P. Animaux sans vertl-bres decouvertes dans Ic bassin de Paris. 

 T. 2me, textc, pp. t341, et seq. Atlas, planches 40-107. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 

 Dohrn, .\. Catalogus Ilemipfcrorum, IS'JO. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Doremus, C. .V. and R. A. Witthaus. Chemistry of the Cobb-Bishop poisoning. 



The Authors. 

 Draper, J. W. Experiments on solar light. Dr»l. Mini-< Hays. 




432 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Dumcril, A. and Bocourt. Mission scicntitique au Mexique et dans F Amerique 

 Centrale. Recherches Ziologi(iues. Smerartie. Etudes sur les reptiles 

 et les batraciens. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Eaton, D. C. Ferns of North America. Pts. 22-27 and Title and Index to 



Vol. 2. J. H. Hedtield. 

 Ellet. C, Jr. The mountain top track, IB^G. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Elliott, D. G. Monograph of the Bucerotidaj. Pts. 7 and 8. 



Monograph of the Felidge. Pt. 5. 

 Encyclopedia Britannica. Uth Ed. Vols. 10 and 11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Encyklopajdia der Naturwissenschaften. 1 Abth., 6-13 Lief. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Engelman, Geo. Revisian of the genus Pinus and description of Pinus El- 



liottii, 1880. 

 Acorns and their germination. The Author. 

 Engler, A. Entwicklungsgeschichte der Pflanzenwelt. I. Th. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Evarts, H. C, M. D. A new species of Ophrydium. The Author. 

 Exposition Universelle de 1878. Catalogue du Ministere de I'instruction pub- 



lique des cultes et des beaux-arts. Tomes 1, 2, -S. Section Beige. Catal. 



otficiel. Minister of Public Works. 

 Falsan, A., and E. Chantre. Monographic geologique des anciens glaciers et 



du terrain erratique de la par.tie moyenne du Bassin du Rhone. Atlas, 



187o. Society of Agriculture of Lyons. 

 Farlow, W. G. Impurities of drinking-water. The Author. 

 Financial reform almanac, 1880. Cobden Club. 

 Fisher, P. Subdivisions des ammonites The Author. 

 Fitzgerald, R. D. Australian orchids. Pts. 1-5. Colonial Secretary, New 



South Wales. 

 Fol, H. Etudes sur les Appendiculaires du Detroit de Messine, 1872. The 



Author. 

 Foote, A. E. Catalogue of minerals. 5th Ed. The Author. 

 Friele, H. Tungebeviebningen hos de Norske Rhipidoglosj-a. The Author. 

 Fritsch, A. Fauna der Gaskohle und der Kalksteine der Permformation Boh- 



mens. Bd. 1, H. 1 und 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fromniann, C. Structur und Bewegungserscheinungen des Protoplasma der 



Ptianzenzellen. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Galvani, Luigi, portrait of. .Vcademy of Sciences of Bologna. 

 Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota, reports, 1874, 1875, 1876, 



1877-78. N. H. Winchell. 

 Geological explorations and surveys west of the 100th Meridian. Topographi- 

 cal .Vtlas. Wheeler, 1875. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Geological Survey of Canada, reports of progress, 1844, 1848-49, 1850-51, 



18")l-52, 1852-5.3, 1853-56, 1857, 18-58, 1875-76. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of India. Records, Vol. XII, Parts 2 and 3. Memoirs, 8vo, 



Vol. 16, pt. 1. Memoirs. 4to. Palseontologia Indica, Ser. II., Vol. I, 



4; Ser. XIII, I, 1 ; Ser. XIV. I, 1. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of Kentucky. A general account of the Commonwealth of 



Kentucky. Report on the timbers of Boyce and Mercer Counties. By 



W. M. Linney. Chemical report of the soils, coal, ore, etc. By Robert 



Peter. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of New .Jersey. Annual report, 1879. The Author. 

 Geological Survey of Sweden. Eleven geological maps. The survey. 

 Geology of Wisconsin. Survey of 1873-79, Vol. Ill, with folio Atlas. Annual 



report, 1879. The Survey. 

 Geyler, H. T. Ueber fossile Pflanzen aus der .Juraformation .Japans. The 



Author. 

 Gibson, 6 A. Sequence and durati.on of the cardiac movements. The Author. 

 Gilbert, G. K. Geology of the Henry Mts., 1877. Department of the Interior. 




ADDITIONS TO IJIIRARV. 433 



Cilpin, E. The mines iiml mineral lands of Nora Scolia, Ihso. l»fM> irtm, n- 



of Mines, Nova Scotia. 

 Gould, J. The birds of Asia. Pts. 2H, 29, 30 and 31. 



The birds of New Guinea. Pts. 3-11 inc. Wilson Fund. 

 Graf, L. Anleitung zur Kenntniss des Pferdes nacli seiner iiu«7.eren Kilrper- 



form, 1H4G. Dr. .Jos. Leidy. 

 Grateloiip, IJr. Discours sur les sciences et len arts, 1837. Dr. 1. .Mini- 

 Hays. 

 Gray, Asa. Botanical contributions, V. The Author. 

 Gray, A. F. Litforina litorea, Linn, on tlie American coast. The Author. 

 Gruber, W. Beobachtungen aus der Dien.«chlichen und vergleichenden 



Anatomie. 1 and 2 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Leber den anomalen Canalis basilaris medianus des Os occipitale beim 



Meuschen. The Author. 

 Haast J. von. Geology of the Provinces of Canterbury and Westland. New 



Zealand. The Author. 

 Haeckel, E. Das System der Medusen, ler Th., le Halfte. Text and Atlas. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Haldeman, S. S. Unsymmetric arrow-heads and allied forms. The Author. 

 Hamilton, G. Biographical sketch of James Aitken Meigs. M.D. The Author. 

 Hampe, E. Enumeratio muscorum, 1870. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hanstein, J. v. Dag Protoplasma, 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hayden, F. V. Five maps of portions of Wyoming, Idaho anil Utah. Depart- 

 ment of Interior. 

 The Great West, 1880. The Author. 

 Hays, Dr. Isaac, framed portrait of. Dr. I. Minis Hays. 

 Hector, .James. Handbook of New Zealand, 1879. .J. Brazier. 

 Heger, A. Useful tables for finding specific gravity. The Author. 

 Heineniann, F. (". Catalogues, 1880. The Author. 

 Heller, A. A Kir. M. Termeszettudomanyi Tarsulat Konyveinek Czimjegy- 



zeke, 1877. Royal Hungarian Society of Sciences. 

 Helmholtz. Sensations of Tone, 187-'>. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Heule, J. Handbuch der Hingeweidelchre des Menschen. 

 Henry, Jos. A summary of researches in sound, 1^79. Smithsonian Inst. 

 Herman, 0. Ungarns Spinnen-Fauna. 3 Bd. Royal Hungarian Society of 



Sciences. 

 Hermann, L. Handbuch der Physiologic. 2er Bd. 2er Th., 5 Bd. 1 Th. 1 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hertwig, (). & R. Die Actinien, 1879. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Hesse-Martegg, E. von. Nord-Amerika. 1-4 Bd. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Heude, R. P. Conchyliologie tluviatile de la Province de Nanking et de la 



Chine Centrale. 5me and 6me Fasc. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hewitson, Wni. C. Illustrations of Diurnal Lepidoptera. Pt. 1. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Hewitson, W. C. and F. Moore, Description of New Indian Lepidopterous 



Insects. Rhopalocera, Heterocera. Asiatic Society of Bengal. 

 Hicks, H. On the Pre-Cambrian rocks of west and central Hoss-bhire. Thi- 



Author. 

 Hidalgo, J. G. Moluscos marines de Espana. Portugal y las BaleareN 



Ent. 1'), 16, 

 Moluscos del Viaje al Pacifico, 1802-05. Pt. la, Ent. 1. The .Vuthor. 

 Hidegh, K. Chemiscke analyse ungarischer Fahlerze. Royal Hungarian 



Society of Sciences. 

 Hind, II. Y. Report of the Waverly Gold District, 18t>9. 

 Report on the Sherbrooke Gold District, 1870. 

 Report on the Mt. Uniacke, Oldham and Renfrew Gold .Mining Districts 



1872. 

 Report on a topographical survey of part of the Cumberland Coal Field, 



1873, Department of Mines, Nova Scotia. 

 29 




434 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



His, W. Auatomie menschlicher embryonen. I. Text and Atlas. 1. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Hooker, J. D. The flora of British India. Pt. VII. The E. Indian Oovern- 



nient. 

 Hull, IaIw. Geologicl age of the rocks fornung the Southern Highlands of 

 Ireland. 

 On the upper limit of the essentially marine beds of the Carboniferous 



Group of the British Isles adjoining continental districts. 

 On the geological relations of the rocks of the South of Ireland to those 



of North Devon and other British and continental districts. 

 On the origin of the " Scalp," 



On a deep boring for coal at Scarle, Lincolnshire. 



On the relations of the Carboniferous, Devonian and Upper Silurian Rocks 

 of the South of Ireland to those of North Devon. The Author. 

 Humphreys, .J. T. Discoveries of minerals in Western North Carolina. The 



Author. 

 Hunfalvy, P. Literarische Berichte aus Ungarn. 3 & 4 Bd. The Hungarian 



Academy of Sciences. 

 Hutton, F. W. Manual of the New Zealand Mollusca. Geological Survev, N. Z. 

 Huxley, T. H. The Crayfish. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Index Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office. Vol. I. 



War Department. 

 Inostranzeff, A. Metamorphosirte Gesteine im Qouvernement Olonez. 1879. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ein neues, ausserstes Glied in der Reihe der amorphen Kohlenstolf'e. 1880. 

 The Author. 

 Inspector of Mines of the anthracite coal regions of Pennsylvania, Reports, 



1878. .Joseph M. Gazzam. 

 International Exhibition, Sydney, 1879. New Zealand Court. Appendix to 



official Catalogue, 1880. The Commissioners. 

 Jeffreys, .J. G. The deep-sea mollusca of the Bay of Biscay. The Author. 

 Joly, N. E. Une lacune dans la serie teratologique remplie par la decouverte 

 du genre Il^adelphie. 

 Sur le placenta de I'Ai. 



Nouvelles recherches tendant a etablir que le pretendu Crustacti decrit 

 par Latreille, sous de nom de Prosopistoma, est un veritable insecte de 

 la tribu des Ephemerines. , 



Contribution a, I'histoire naturelle et 1' anatomic des Ephemerines. 

 Etudes sur I'embryogenie des Ephemeres. The Author. 

 Julien, A. A. Spodumene and its alterations. The Author. 

 Just, L. Botanischer Jahrsbericht. 5er Jahrg., 1877, 3e Abth., 6er Jang. 1 H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kansas State Board of Agriculture, quarterly report, Sept. 30, 1879. March 



31,1880. The Author. 

 Keller, Ferd. Lake dwellings of Switzerland, 2 vols., 1878. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Keyserling. E. Die Spinnen Amerikas. Laterigi'adae, 1880. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Kiener, L. C. Species general et iconographique des Coquilles vivantes. 



Livr. 150-165. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kingsley, .1. S. Synopsis of the N. A. species of the genus Alpheus. 



Notes on the N. A. Caridea in the Museum of the Peabody Academy of 



Sciences. 1878. 

 Decapod Crustacea of the Atlantic coast, whose range embraces Fort 



Macon. 

 North American Crustacea belonging to the sub-order Caridea. 

 Development of Moina. 

 Geographical distribution of Crustacea. The Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LITJRARY. 435 



Kingston, G. T. Report of the Meteorological Office of the Dominion of 



Canada, 1879. The Superintendent. 

 Kjerulf. Th. Die Geologic des sudlicheu und mittleron Norwegen. 1880. 



The Author. 

 Klaproth, .M. IT. An<alytical Essays. 2 vols , Kvo. 1801. Dr. 1. M. Hays. 

 Klein, E. and E. Noble Sii.ith. Alias of histology, I'Is. ',1-12. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Klunzinger, C. B. Die Korallthiere des Rothen Meerea. 3erTh. I. V WiU 



liamson Fund. 

 Kneass, S. H. Coal mines of the Lykens Valley Toal Company. 1844. Dr I. 



M. Hays. 

 Kobelt, W. Tllustrirtes Conchylienbuch. 8e & Oe Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Koch, A. Description of the Missourium, 1841. Dr. 1. Minis Hays. 

 Kiilliker, Alb. Grundriss der Entwicklungs-Geschichte des Menschen und 



der h.iheren Thicre. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kokscharow's Materialen zur Mineralogie Russland. Bd. VIII, sigs. 6-'.t. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kossmann, R. Zoologische Ergebniss einer im Auftrage der K. Acad, der 

 Wissen. zu Berlin ausgefiihrten Reise in die Kiistengebiete de.s rothen 

 Meercs. 2c Hlllfte, le Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 KUchenmeister, H. Die Parasiten des Menschen. 2e AuH. 1 & 2 Lief. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kuntz, 0. Speciesbeschreibung und Rubus, 1870. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Liedy, Jos. Fresh-water llhizopods of North America, 18r.t. Department of 



the Interior. 

 Lente, F. D. Higher education of medical men. The Author. 

 Leuckart, R. Die Parasiten des Menschen und die von ihnen herriihrenden 

 Krankheitcn. ler Bd., 1 Lief. 2e Auflage, 1870. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 

 Lewis, H. C. The Trenton gravel and its relation to the anliijuity of man. 

 The optical characters of some Micas. 

 On Siderof.hyllite. 

 On Philadelphite. 

 On a fucoidal plant from the Trias. 

 The surface geology of Philadelphia and vicinity. 



The iron ores ami lignite of the Montgomery County Valley. The .\uthor. 

 Librarian of Congress, annual report, 1879. Tlie .\uthor. 

 Library Co. of Phila., Bulletin, n. s. No. o. The Liiirary Co. 

 Lieberkiihii, N. Keimbllitter der Saugethiere, 1879. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Light-House Board, annual report, 1S79. Treasury Department. 

 Lindsay, W. L. Mind in the lower animals. 2 vols. I- V. Williamson Fund. 

 Linnarsson, G. Om Faunan i Lagr^n med Paradoxides Olandicus. (ieological 



Survey of .'Sweden. 

 Lippincott, .1. 8. The critics of evolution. The Author. 



List of vertebrated animals now or latelj' living in the Gardens of the Zoologi- 

 cal Society of London. 1st Supplement. The Society. 

 Lockington, W. N. Notes on Pacific oast Crustacea, 1878. The Author. 

 Loewe, L. Nervensystem der Sliugethiere und iles Menschen, 1880. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Lyman, Benj. Smith. Geological Survey of .Japan. Report of progress for 



1878 and 1S79. Tookei, 1879. The Survey. 

 McLachlan, R. Monographic revision and synopsis of the Trichoptera of the 



European fauna. Pt. 9. I. V. Williamsiui Fund. 

 MacLean, .1. P. Mound-builders, 1879. I. V. Willianjson Fund. 

 .Malaise, (^. Description des gites fossilifi-res Devoniens el d'alHeurcment du 



terrain Civlaci'-. Belgian Geological Survey. 

 .Mallery, Garrick. Sign language among the North .Vmericaa Indians. 188t). 

 Introduction to the study of sign language among the North .\merican 

 Indians. Smithsonian Institution. 




436 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Mallet, J. W. La Barcenite, 1878. Dr. .los. Lcidy. 



Marten, E. von. Conchologische Mittheilungen. 1 Btl., \-i H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Martin, E. Histoire des monstres. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Martin, K. Die Tertilirschichten auf Java. Pahvontol. Th. 2-4 Lief. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Martindale, I. C. Notes on the Bartram Oak. The Author. 

 Martini \ Chemnitz. Systcmatisches Conchylien-Cabinet. Lief. 28-l-29r). 



Wilson Fund. 

 Marsh, 0. C. New Jurassic reptiles. The Author. 

 Maryland, report on new map of, 1830. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Mason. John .J. Microscopic studies on the central nervous system of reptiles 



and batrachians. 1 and 2. The Author. 

 Matteucci, C. Le9ons sur les phenomenes physiques des corps vivants. Ed. 



Francaise. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Meehan, Thos. Native flowers and ferns of the United States. 2d Ser., Pts. 



1-24. 1879. The Publishers. 

 Meigs, J. A., death-mask of. C. W. De Lannoy. 



Mencke, M. Beitrlige zur Biologic der Spaltpilze. L V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mendell. G. H. Blasting operations at Lime Point, Cal., in 1868 and 1869. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York, 59th annual report. 



The Directors. 

 Mercantile Library Association of San Francisco, 27th annual report. The 



Trustees. 

 Mexican antiquities, 61 photographs of. (Poinsett Collection.) W^m. S. Beebe. 

 Milne-Edwards, M. Melanges Carcinologiques. Text and plates. Dr. Jos. 



Leidy. 

 Le9ons sur la physiologic et I'anatomie comparee de Thomme et des ani- 



maux. T. 14me, Ire Pt. Wilson Fund. 

 Mines Commission Report, 1880, Annapolis. The Commissioner. 

 Minks, A. Das Microgonidium, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mission Scientifique au Mexique. Recherches Zool. 7me, Partie T. 2. 1880. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Moleschott, Jac. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der 



Thiere. XIII Band, 8 & 4 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 MoUer, V. v. Die Foraminiferen des russischen Kohlenkalks. The Author. 

 Mongredien, Aug. Free trade and English commerce. 4th ed. 



The western farmer of America, The Cobden Club. 

 Morse, Edw. S. Ancient and modern molluscau fauna of Omori, Japan. The 



Author. 

 Mueller, F. de. Index perfectus ad Caroli Linnan Species Plantarum. 1880. 



The Author. 

 Miiller, N. J. C. Ilandbuch der Botanik. ler Bd., lerTh. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Museum Ludwig Salvator in Ober-Blasewitz bei Dresden. The Author. 

 Nagle, J. T. Summary of births, marriages, still-births, deaths, etc., in New 



York City. 1878. The Author. 

 Native Tribes of South Australia. 1879. R. Schomburgh. 

 Netoliczka, E Untersuchungen iiber Farbenblindheic und Kurzsichtigkeit. 



2 Nos. 1879. The Author. 

 New York, geological reports, 1837, 2d Ed. 1840, 1841 & 1851. Dr. I. M. 



Hays. 

 Oiseaux dans la nature. Livr. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 O'Neill, T. Warren. The refutation of Darwinism, 18S0. The Author. 

 Orr's Circle ot the sciences, Nos. 1 & 2. 1854. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Packard, A. S., Jr, Zoology. 1879. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Palaeontographica. 26er Bd., 3. Lief., 27er Bd., 1. Lief. & Supplement III, 



3., 8. & 9. Lief., H. 4. Wilson Fund. 




ADDITION'S TU LIBRARV. 431 



Paliieontologie Franf^aise, Ire Scr. An. Invert. Ter. Jurassiquc Livr. 4J an<l 4.0, 

 2e Ser. Vogetaux. Ter. Jur. Livr. 29. Wilson Fund. 



Paloeontological Society's Publications, Vol. 34. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pa.steur, L. Studies on fermeatation, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Paulucci, M. E.xcursione scientifica nella Calabria, 1877-7H. Fauna .Mala- 

 cologica. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Peabody Academy of Science, Salem, Mass. Visitors' Catalogue of the Mus- 

 eum. 187'-i. The Society. 



Pennsylvania, Geological reports, 183:J an<l 18:Jti. Dr. I. M. Hay-. 



Pfeitter, L. Nomenclator Ileliceorum viventiam. "i. & G. Lief. I \'. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Physical Science, Agriculture, etc. 81 pamphlets on. Dr. I. M. Ilny^. 



Pickering, Chas. Vocabulary of the Soahili language. Mrs. Chas. Pickering. 



Porter, J. Topographical description of Plainfield, 1834. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Prazmowski, A. Eatwickelungsgeschichte und Fermcntwirkung einiger Bac- 

 terien-.Arten. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Public Ledger Almanac. 1880. The Publisher. 



Public Library, Milwaukee, 2d annual report. The Trustees. 



Putnam, J. U. Biological and other notes on the Coccidii?, 1880. The Author. 



Quaritch, B. Letter to General Starring, Jan. 14, 1880. The Author. 



Rand, B. H. Two lectures on impure air and ventilation. The Author. 



Ratzel, Fr. Die Vereinigten Staaten von Nord-Amerika. 2er Band. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Report of Commissioners appointed under resolve of 185G, Chap. ;")8. concern- 

 ing the artificial propagation of fish. Boston, 18-37. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Reyer, E. Vier Ausfluge in die Eruptiomassen bei Christiania. 

 Zinn in Birma, Slam iS: Malakka. 

 Zinn in Australien und Tasmanien. The Author. 



Riviere, E. Grotte de Saint-Benoit. 1878. 



Le plioctsne de Castel d' Appio en Italic, 1879. 



De quelques hyperostoses de poisons trouvees dans les grotte? (juarter- 



naires de .Menton en Italie. 

 Note 8ur des instruments en obsidienne trouves en Grcce, 1879. The 

 Author. 



Robert, P. Les oiseaux dans la nature. Livr. 2-10. I. V. WilliamsonTund. 



Roberts, E. P. Directions for sowing, transplanting and raising the Mulberry 

 Tree, 18:5".). Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Roemer, F. Lethica geognostica. I. Th. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rossmiissler's Icjnographie der Europliischen Land- und Siisswasser-Mollus- 

 ken. VII, 1-3. Wilson Fund. 



Rothrock, J. T. Catalogue of trees and shrubs in the horticultural gardens 

 adjacent to Horticultural Hall, Fairmount. 1880. The Author. 



Roucher-Deratte, C. Le90us physiologico mOtt-orologiquessur les constitutions 

 des saisons. 1804 Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Russ, Dr. K. Die fremdliindischen Stubenvijgel. Ill, 7 -'J. 1. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Rutherford, J. Coal-fields of Nova Scotia. Department of Mines, Nova Scotia. 



Ryder, J. A. Ichthydium ocellatiim, 1880. 



On the occurrence of Freia producta, Wright, in the Chesapeake Bay, etc 

 The Author. 



Sadler, John. Report on temperature during the winter of 1878-79 at tiie 

 Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh. The .\uthor. 



Saint-Lager, Dr. RelDrme ile la nomenclature botanique. The .Author. 



St. Louis Mercantile Library .Association, annual report, 187'.'. The Directors. 



Saunder, W. Tea-culture as a probable .Viiierican industry. 1879. Depart- 

 ment of .Vgriculture. 



Saussure, H. de. La Grotte du See. The Author. 



Scheffler, H. Die Naturgesetz*. 3terTh , Gte, 7tc und '^te Lief. The -\athor. 




438 APDITIONH TO LIURAKY. 



Schinipcr, W. V., and K. A. Zittel. Hiuulbuch der I'lihvontologic. 1. Bd., 3te 



und 4tc Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schlegel, II. Museum d'histoire naturelle des Pays-Bas. T. 8, Monog. 41. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Schmidt, Eniil. Kraniologische Untex'sucliungen. 



Miithcilungen aus der antliropologischen LiteraturAmerikas. The Author. 

 Schmidt, 0. Die Spongien des Meerbusen von Mexico. 2tes (Schluss-) Heft. 



1880. Museum of Comparative Anatomy. 

 Schomburgh, R. On the naturalized weeds and other plants of South Australia. 

 On the Urari. 



Catalogue of the plants under cultivation in the Government Botanic Gar- 

 den, Adelaide, South Australia. 

 Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic Garden and govern- 

 ment plantations during the year 1879. • The Author. 

 Scoti, W. B., and H. F. Osborn. Early development of the common newt. 



The Authors. 

 Scudder, S. II., Writings of, compiled by George Dimmock. 1879. The Editor. 



The Devonian Insects of New Brunswick. The Author. 

 Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. C'^ 2 vols., G\ G'\ H', F, 0^, P^, 

 Q-, Q-', R, T, V-. The Commission. 

 Same. Report P. Jos. M. Gazzam. 

 Seemann, B. Flora Vitiensis. 4to. 1865-73. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 3ter Th., i5ter Bd., 5 H. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Sheafer, P. W. Anthracite coal-fields of Pennsylvania and their exhaustion. 

 Diagram of the progress of the anthracite coal trade of Pennsylvania. 

 The Author. 

 Short, J. T. North Americans of antiquity. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sigsbee, C. D. U. S. Coast Survey. Deep-sea sounding and dredging. 1880. 



C. P. Patterson. 

 Smith, F. Description of new species of Hymenoptera in the British Museum. 



1879. Trustees of the Museum. 

 Smith, J. A Mutations of the earth, 1846. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Smith, J. L. Minerals and mineral waters of Chili. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Progress and condition of several departments of industrial chemistry. 

 Paris Univ. Exp., 1867. Dr. .Jos. Leidy. 

 Smithson, .James, Scientific writings of. 1879. 

 Smithsonian Institution and National Museum, visitor's guide. 

 Smithsonian Institution Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. 16 and 17. Contribu- 

 tions to Knowledge, Vol. 22. 

 Report, 1878. 



.Journal of Board of Regents, etc. The Institution. 

 Smyth, R. B. The aborigines ot Victoria. The Government of Victoria. 

 Snellen van Vollenhoven, S. C. Pinacographia. Pt. 9. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Soret, L, Rapport du President de la Societe de physique at d'histoire 



naturelle de Geneve, 1879. The Author. 

 South African Museum, report, 1879. The Trustees. 

 Spencer, H. Ceremonial institutions. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. New species or variety of land snail from California. The 



Author. 

 Steenstrup, J. Sepiella, Gray. 



De Ommatostrephagtige Blicksprutters indbyrdes Forhold. The Author. 

 Steiner, L. H. Annual address Jjefore the American Academy of Medicine at 



New York, Sept 16, 1879 The Author. 

 Stille, A., M. D. Humboldt's life and character, 1859. Dr. I. M. Hays. 



Memoir of Isaac Hays. The Author. 

 Stone, 0. Extra-meridian determination of time. The Author. 

 Strebel, H. Fauna mexikanischer Land- und Susswasser-Conchylien. Th. 4. 

 1. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIIJKAUV. 439 



Strccker, II. Buitertlies and moths, 187'.'. The .\ullior. 



Strobel, V. Materiali per una malacoslatica d\ terra e 'lacqua dolci. 



Disp. 1-4. 

 Struckmanu, C. Die WeaMen-Bildungen der Inigegend von Hannoyer, 1880. 



The Author. 

 Sveriges Geologiska Undersiikning. Ser. A A, Nos. 68, G'.J, 71 and 72; A B 4 



and ') : C Svo, ;il, 32, :;4 and ;15 ; C 4to, 2'.t and -l-i. The Surrey. 

 Taplin, Rev. G. Folklore, manners, customs and languages of the >outh 



Australian !iborigine-;e, 1H7<,). U. Sehomhurgh. ^ 

 Tapparone-Canefri, C. Museum I'auluccianum. Etudes malacologi>|ues. 



Tiie .Vuthor. 

 Taramelli. T. ('atalogo ragionato delle Rocce del Fruili. 

 Sulla formazione serpentinosa dell' .\penniiio Pavese. 

 Monogratica stratigratia e paleonlolugica del Lias nelle Provincie Venete. 



The .\uthor. 

 Tate, R. Zoologica et Phcontologica Miscellanea, chiefly relating to South 



Australia. 

 The natural history of the country around the head of the gr«at Austra- 

 lian Bight. 

 The Adelaide Philosophical Society. .Vuniversary address of the Presi- 

 dent. The Author. 

 Taylor, R. C. Coal regions in the environs of Blossburg, 1833. Dr. I. M. 



Hays. 

 Taylor, W. B. A memoir of Joseph Henry, 2d Ed. Smithsonian Inst. 

 Thomas, C. H., M. D. Researches on hearing through the medium of tlie 



teeth and cranial bones. The Author. 

 Traill, G. W. The Algio of the Firth of Forth. The Author. 

 Trautwine, .J. C. Internal improvement system of the South, 1839. Dr. 1. 



M. Hays. 

 Tryon, G. W. Jr. Manual of Conchology, Pts. 5-8. The Author. 

 Turnbull, C. S. Audiphone and Dentaphone. The Author. 

 United States Coast and Geodetric Survey. Pacific Coast Pilot. Coasts and 



islands of Alaska. 2d Series, 1879. C. P. Patterson. 

 United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Part V, Report of the Com- 

 mission for 1877. The Commission. 

 United States F<ntomological Commission. Bulletin Nos. 3, 4 and 5. Depart- 

 ment of the Interior. 

 United States Geographical Survey west of the lOUth meridian. Reports, 



Vols. 2, 3, 4 and 5, Engineer Department, U. S. A 

 United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories 11th 



annual report. Bulletin, Vol. V, No. 3. Department of the Interior. 

 United States National Museum. Bulletin Nos. 13 and 17. Department of 



the Interior. 

 University of Minnesota, report of the Regents of, 1872. The Regents. 

 Vacek, Mich. Vorarlherger Kreide, 1879. The Author. 

 Van Beneden and Gervais, MM. Osti'ographie dcs Cetaci'-s vivants et fossilor<. 



Text and atlas. Lief. 17 and 18. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Van der Berg, L. W. ('. Verslag van eene Verzameluug .Maleische. .\rabische, 



Javaanschc en anderc liandschriften doorde Regecring van Nederlandsch 



Indie. Bataviau .Vcademy of Sciences, 

 Vanuxem, L. Experiments on anthracite, plumbago, etc., \X-'k Dr. 1. M. 



Hays. , 

 V61ain, Ch. Ktude microscopique des verres resultant dc la fusion de>« 



cendres de gramini^es. 

 Mission de l' lie de Saint Paul. Recherches g('-ologi<|Ucs. 4lo Paris, 



1M79. The .\uthor. 

 Victoria. Reports of the Mining Survevors, 31si December. 1878. :'.l8i March. 



1879. 

 Mineral Statistics of, 1878. 




440 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Report of Inspector of Alines, 1878. Dr. F. V. ITayden. 

 Vogdes. A. W. Monograph of the genera Zethus, Cybele, Encrinurus and 



Oyptonymus. The Author. 

 Wagner, Wm. Five new fossils of the older pliocene formation of Maryland 



and North Carolina. The Author. 

 AVaterhouse. Owen. Illusti-ations of the typical specimens of Coleoptcra in 



the collection of the British Museum. Pt. I, Lycida>. The British 



Museum. 

 Watson, R. Chemical Essays. 7th Ed. 5 vols., 1800. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 AVatson, R. B. Mollusca of If. M. S. "Challenger" Expedition. Pt. 5. The 



Author. 

 Watson, S. Geological Survey of California. Botany, Vol. 2. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Weismann, Aug. Uber die letzten Ursachen der Transmutationem, 1876. 



Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Wex, G. V. Improvement of the Danube at Vienna, 1830. 



Second treatise on the decrease of water in springs, creeks and rivers, 



1880. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 White, C. A. Paleontological Field work for the session of 1877. 

 Cretaceous fossils of the Western States and Territories. 

 Note on the occurrence of Productus giganteus in California. 

 New invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic and Cenozoic rock?^ of Ar- 

 kansas, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah. 

 Description of a very large fossil gasteropod from the State of Puebla, 



Mexico. 

 Contributions to paleontology, Nos. 2—3. The Author. 

 White, F. E. Valedictory Address, Woman's Medical College, 1880-bl. The 



Author. 

 Whiteaves, J. F. On some marine invertebrata of Queen Charlotte Island. 



The Author. 

 Whitfield, R. P. Fossil crustaceans from the Upper Devonian rocks of Ohio. 



The Author. 

 Whitney, J. D. The Geological Survey of California. An address delivered 



before the Legislature of California. 

 Lecture on geology delivered before the Legislature of California, Feb. 



28, 1862. Dr. .Jos. Leidy. 

 Wilhelm, K. Siebrijhreuapparates dicotyler Pflanzen. I V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wilkes, Chas. Western America, 18411. Dr. I. M. Hays. 

 Wilson, T. B., engraved portrait of. Rathmel Wilson. 

 Winchell, A. Preadamites, 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Witter, P. M., Catalogue of Iowa mollusca in the collection of. The Author. 

 Wood, H. C. and H. F. Formad. Research on the effects of inoculating the 



lower animals with diphtheritic exudation. Dr. Wood. 

 Woodward's Gardens, illustrated guide to. 1880. The Author. 

 Woolls, W. Plants indigenous in the neighborhood of Sydney. The Author. 

 Vale College, Catalogue, 1880. 



Obituary records of graduates, 1880 and supplement. 

 Yale College in 1880. The Librarian. 

 Yarrow, H. C. Mortuary Customs among the North American Indians. The 



Author. 

 Young Men's Mercantile Library Association of Cincinnati. 4')th annual 



report, 1880. The Association. 

 Zeiler, R. Explication de la Carte gc'-ologique de la France. Tome 4me, 2e 



Parte. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Zesch, F. and 0. Ileinecke. Coleoptera of Buffalo. The Author. 

 Zoological record, Vol 15, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoological Society of London, list of vertebrated animals, 7th Ed., 1879. 



Catalogue of Library. The Society. 

 Zuckerkandl, E. Morphologic des Gesichtsschiidels. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 441 



JOURNALS AM) I'KUIUIUCA L,<. 



Adelaide. Philosophical Society. Transactions, 1^78-7't. The Society. 



Amsterdam, K. Akademie van Wettenschappen. Verslagen en Mededeelingen. 



Afd. Letterkunde, 2e Reeks, 8 Deel. ; Afd. Natuurkiinde. 2e Keek-s, 14 



Deel. .Jaahrboik, 1878. I'rocessen-Verbaal, Afd. Nat. Mei, 1K7»-Apr. 



187'.». Verhan<llingefl, Deel V.K Alf. Nat. Deel 12. The Society. 



Angers. Socii^ti- Nationale d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. M«'*moiro- ' '" 



and 20. The Society. 

 Atco Science Advocate, Vol. I, No. 1. The Editor. 

 Augsburg. Naturhistorische Verein, 2oer Derichte. The Society. 

 Baltimore. American (.'heniical Journal. V'ol. 1, No. 1. The Editor. 



American Journal of Mathematics, Vol. 2, Nos. 3 and 4 ; Vol.3, No. 1. 



The Editor. 

 Johns Hopkins L'niversity. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, No.s. 



1, 2 and 4. Report of the J^d year. The University. 

 Peabody Institute, 12th and 13fh annual reports. The Trustees. 

 Batavia. (ienootschaj) van Kunsten en Wetenschappen Tijdschrift, Deel '2'-), 

 Afl. 5 and 6 : Deel 24, Atl. 1, 2. M and : Deel 2o, AH. 1 and 2 ; Notulen, 

 Deel 14, Nos. 2. 3 and 4; Deel 1"), Nos. 2,3,4: Deel 16, Nos. 1-4. 

 Gedenkboek, 1778-1878. The Society. 

 Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Tijdschrift, Zevende Serie. 

 Deel 8. The Society. 

 Belfast. Naturalists' Field Gub, annual report. Vol. 1, Pts. •'• and 6. The 

 Society. 

 Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Sessions 1878- 

 70, 1870-80. The Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, 44er Jahrg., 5 H. ; 45er Jahrg.. 4 and u 

 H. ; 46er Jahrg., 1, 2 and -i H. The Editor. 

 Deutsche Geologische Gesel'.schaft. Zeitschrift, 31 Bd., 2-4 H.; 32 Bd., 



1 H. The Society. 

 Entomologische Verein. Zeitschrift, 23er Jahrg., 2 H.; 24 Jahrg., 1 H. The 



Society. 

 Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freuiidc. Sitzungs-Berichte, 1870. The 



Society. 

 K. Preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Monatsbericht, 1870, Juli- 



1880, Juli. The Society. 

 Der N^turforscher, 12 Jahrg., No. 27-13 Jahrg., No. 13. The Editor. 

 Naturae Noviiates, 1879, No. 10-1880, No. 8. The Editor. 

 Verein zur DetVirderung des Gartenbaues. iMouatschrifi, 22 Jahrg.. Jan - 



Dec. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift tlir die gesanwnten Naturwissenschaften, 3d Folge, 3 Bd., No. 

 4. The Editor. 

 Bern. Naturforscheude Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, Nos. 037-978. The 



Society. 

 Besan(,'on. Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres el .Arts, 1H7G-78. The 



Society. 

 Beziers. SocitUe d'Etude des Sciences NaUirelles. Bulletin, Annies 1, 2 and 



3, Fasc. 1 and 2 The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir Mikroskopisciie Anatomic, 1 7er Bd.. '■'• H iser Bd., 4 H. 

 I. V. Williamsim Fund. 

 .N'aturhistorische Verein. Verhamllungen, 3.")er Jahrg.. 2e and 3i..lahrg., 

 le Hiilfte. The Society. 

 Bordeaux. Socii-ti' Linni-enne. .\ctes, T. 33, Livr. 3. 4 an<i il. The Society. 

 Soci^te des Sciences physiques et naturelU-s M.inoir.w j,. .^.i T :: ".e 

 Cah., and T. 4. le <ah. The Society. 




ii'2 ADIMTIONS TO LIBUAHY. 



Boston. Ameiiiiiu Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings, Vol. 16, Pts. 

 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Society of Natural History. Proceedings, Vol. liO, Pt. ;5, and pp. 27o-384. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologie, 12. Bd., 2-4 Viertelj. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Verein tiir Naturwissenschaft. .Jahresbericht, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Uremen. Naiurwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen, 6. Bd., 2tes und 



Schluss H., Beilage No. 7. The Society. 

 Brooklyn. Entomological Society. Bulletin, Vol. 2, Nos. 4-12. The Society. 

 Brunn. Naturforschende Verein. Vei-handlungen, 17. The Society. 

 Bruxelles. Socicti^ Beige de Microscopie. Proces Verbaux, 1870, Nov. 27 — , 

 1880, No. 12, Annales T. 4. The Society. 

 Soci^tc Entomologitiue. Compte Rendu, Ser. 2, No. t)0-72. Annales T. 22, 



The Society. 

 Societe Malacologique, Annales, T. 9me, 2e Fasc. Proces Verbaux, T. 

 8, 4 Oct 1879-7 Fev, 1880. The Society. 

 Buda-Pest. M. Tudom. Akademia. Ertekezc'-sek a math. Tudonumyok Kiirebol, 

 7 Kotet, 1 Szam^.) Kotet, 19. Math, es Termeszet. Kiizlemenyek, 14 

 and 15 Kiliet. Evkiinyvei, Tizenhatodik Kiitet, 11 Uai-ab. The Society. 

 Ungarische National-Museum. Termeszetrajzc Fuzetek, 4 Kiitet, 3. The 

 Museum. 

 Butt'alo. North .\merican Entomologist, Vol. 1, Nos. 6-12. The Editor. 

 Caen. Academic Nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Letters. Memoires, 

 1879 The Society. 

 Societe Linneenne de Normandie. Bulletin, 3e Ser., Vols, 1 and 2. The 

 Society. 

 <'alcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. .Journal, Vol. 47, Pt. 1, No. 4; Pt. 2, 

 No. 4; Vol. 48, Pt. 1, Nos. 1-4; Pt. 2, No. 1; Vol. 49, Pt. 1, No. 3. 

 Proceedings, 1879. Nos, 2-10. The Society. 

 Same. .Journal, Vol. 48, Nos. 128-130. Proceedings, 1879, Nos. 5-10. 



Isaac Lea. 

 Stray Feathers, Vol. 8, Nos. 2-6. L V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cambridge, .\ppalachian Mountain Club. Appalachia, Vol. 1 and Vol. 2, Nos. 

 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Bussey Institution, Bulletin, Nos. 2-4, and Vol. 2, Nos. 1, 2 and 3. The 



Institution. 

 Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 14, 15 and 16. Bibliograph- 

 ical Contributions, Nos. 1 and 2. The Trustees. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, Vol. 6, No. 1 : Vol. 7, No. 1 

 and No. 2, Pt. 1. Reports, 1878-79; 1879-80. Bulletin, VoL 5, No, 

 16 and title; Vol. 6, Nos. 1-11 ; Vol. 7, No. 1. The Director. 

 Nuttall Ornithological Club. Bulletin, 1880, .Jan. -Oct. The Society. 

 Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology. 12th and 13tli 



annual reports. The Director. 

 Psyche, Nos. 65-76. The Editor. 

 Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien, Dec. 1879-Oct. 1880. The Editor. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter, Neue Folge, 2. Bd., 1. Bg.-3. Bd., 2. Bg. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Verein fiir Naturkunde, Bericht 26 und 27. The Society. 

 Cherbourg. Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Memoires, T. 21 and 



Catalogue of Library. The Society. 

 Chicago. American Anti(|uarian, Vol. 2, No. 3-Vol, 3, No. 1, The Editor. 

 Central Fishcultural Society. Proceedings, 1st An. Meeting. The 



Society. 

 Oriental and Biblical ,)ournal. Vol. 1, No. 2. The Editor. 

 Christiana. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab. 4 Bd., 3 H.-5 Bd., 3 

 H. The Editor. 




Ar>DlT(0.\> Til I.IDKAllK \ «.S 



Cincinnati. Society of Natural History, .lournal, Vol. •_', N>>. •_' \ ..I, .;, .No. 8. 



The Society. 

 Copenhagen. Viilenpkahelijre Mcdilelel.scr. 1877 7s ; Ift7'.'-Mi, 1 & 2. 



Naturhistorisk Tidd-ski ill, Scliioilte. lli r>d., 1 II.. also ]«i Ser.. Vols. 1-4: 

 2(1 Ser., Vol. 1. No.^. 4 and ti, and Vol. -J: :;d Ser., Vol. 4-11.1. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Soeii'ii- Royalc des Antiquaries du Nord. MtniDires. n. s. lH78-7'.t. Til- 



laeg, 1877, 1S7S. I. V. Williamson I'lmd. 

 K. D. Videnskabcrnes Sel.skab. dversigt 1870, No. 3. 1H80, No. 1. Skrif- 

 ter, 5te Raekke. Vol. '.i No. f . Vol. 1 1 No. 0. The Society. 

 Cordoba. Acadeuiia Nacional de Ciencias Exacta?. T. :!, Enl. 1 & 2. Uoletin 



T. 2, Enl. 4 : T. :), Ent. 1. The Society. 

 Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette. Vol. 5, Nos. 2-11. The Editor. 

 Danzig. Naturforschende Geselli^^chaf't. Schriften. Neue Folge, 4. Bd., 4. II. 



The Society. 

 Darmstadt. Verein fiir Erdkundc Noii/.bl itt. :'.. Folse, 18. H. The .'Society. 

 Davenport. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, Vol. 2, It. 2: Vol. 



.3, Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Dijon. Academic des Sciences. Arts et Belles Lettri 8. Ann<$c, is78-7'.t. The 



Society. 

 Dorpat. Naturl'orscher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsherichte. 4er Bd.. 2. li. Ar- 

 cliiv tiir die Naturkunde Liv-Ehst- und Kurbind<, 1. Ser.. Bd. h. No. 4. 

 The Society. 

 Dresden. K. Leop. -Carol. -Deutschen Akadeuiie der Naturforscher. Nova 

 Acta, Vols 39 and 40. Leopoldino, H. 12-l.j. The Society. 

 Nalurwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis. 1879 Jan. — Dec. The Society. 

 Verein liir Erdkunde. Jahresbericht Kier. The Society. 

 Dublin. Royal Dublin Society. Proceedings, n. s. I. i-3: II. l-<>. Trans- 

 actions, n. s. ^'ol. 1, Nos. 1-12; Vol. 2, Nos. 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Royal Geological Society of Ireland. .Journal, Vol 15, No. 2. The 

 Society. 

 Easton. American Institute of Mining Engineers. Transaction", Vol. 7. 

 Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, Vol. 13, Pt. 3. 

 The Society. 

 Geological Society. Transactions, Vol. 3, Pt. 2. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, Vol. 10, No. 103. Transactions. Vol. 2s, Pt 



2, and Vol. 2'.>, Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Scottish Naturalist. Nos. 37-40. The Editor. 

 Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht tiler. KleiiieSchrilien. 



is. The Society. 

 Erlangeu. Physikalisch-medizinische Societiit. Sitzuiigsberichte, 11 II 



The Society. 

 Frankfurt a. M. Aerztliche Verein. Juhre.>-berichi 22er. The ."society. 



Deutsche Malakozoolog'ische Gesellschaft. Nachrichisblatt, 1S80. No. 1. 



The Society. 

 Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Abhandluiigen 11. Bd.. 



4 H. Bericht. 1S78-7'.I The Society. 

 Der Zoologische Garten, 2(.t Jahrg. 7-12. The Zoological Society of Frank- 

 ford. 

 Freiburg, i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Berichte. Bd. 7. H. 4 The 



Society. 

 Gand. Archives de Biologic, Van Benedeii and Van Bainbekc. T. 1, Fasc. 



1-:;. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geneva. Schweizerische jialiior.tologischc Gesellschaft. Abhandhmgen Vol. 

 ti. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Socictc de Physique et d'Hisioire Naiurclle. Mcmoircs, \oI. 2K, No. 2. 

 The Society. 

 Genoa. Societa di Letture e Conversazioni Scientifiche. Giornale, .\nno .">, No. 

 10— Anno 4, No. 4. The Society. 



I 




444 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Giesseu. Oberbessische Gesellschaft fiir Natui- und llcilkunde, ISerBericht. 



The Society. 

 Glasgow. Philosophical .Society. Proceedings Vol. 11, No. 2. The Society. 

 Giittingen. K. Gesellschaft der Wissenscliaften. Xachrichten, 1879. The 



Society. 

 Guadalaiara. Sociedad de Ingenieros de -lalisco. BoletinT. 1, No. 1. The 



Society, 

 Hamburg. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Abhandlungen 7 Bd. 1 Abth. 



The Society. 

 Harlem. Hollandische Maatischappij der Wetenschappen. Natuurkundige 

 Verhandelingen, Dcel 4, 1 Stuk. The Society. 

 Musee Teyler. Archives Vol. ;"), Pt. 2. The Director. 

 Societe HoUandaise des Sciences. Archives, T. 14, 3e Livr. — T. 15, 2e 

 Livr. The Society. 

 Helsingfors. Finska Vetenskaps Societet. Ufversigt, 21. Bidrag, 32. Obser- 

 vationes Meteorologiques, 1877, 1878. Acta, XI. The Society. 

 Siillskapet pro fauna et flora Fenuica. Ny serie, 2, 3, 4, 6-11 Haftet. 

 Acta I. Meddelanden 1-5. The Society. 

 Herniannstadt. Siebenbiirgischer Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften. Ver- 



handlungen und Mitjheilungeu. 30 Jahrg. The Society. 

 Hobart Town. Koyal Society of Tasmania. Papers and Proceedings, 1878. 



The Society. 

 .Jena. Medizinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, 13er Bd. 



3 H.— Uer Bd. 2 H. Sitzungsberichte, 1879. The Society. 

 Kansas City. The Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, Dee. 1879 — 



Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Lausanne. Socic'to Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, No. 83. The 



Society. 

 Leipzig. Arcliiv fiir Anatomic und Physiologic. Anatomische Abth. 1879, 5 

 H.— 1880, 3 H. Physiologische Abth. 1879. 5 H.— 1880, 5 H. Ver- 

 zeichniss, 1834-1876. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanisches Centralblatr, No. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanische .Jahrbiicher, Engler. I, 1. 2 & 3. I. V. Williamson Fund, 

 Fiirstlich .Jablonowski-sche Gesellschaft. Preisschriften No. 2. The 



Society, 

 ■lahrbiicher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik. 12er Bd., 1 & 2 H. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 .Journal fiir Ornithologie. 27 .Jahrg. 3 H.— 28 Jahrg. 1 H. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 K. Siichsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen XII, 2, 



3 & 4. Berichte, 1879. The Society. 

 Kosmos, III, 7— IV 8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Morphologisches Jahrbuch. 5er Bd. 3— 6er Bd. :>. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie, Groth, 2er Bd. 6es H. — 



oer Bd. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschafiliche Zoologie, 33er Bd. 1 — 35er Bd. 1. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologischer Anzeiger, 2 .Jahrg. Nos. 42-68. The Editor. 

 Liege. Society Pioyale des Sciences. Memoires, 2me s. T. 7 and 8. The 



Society. 

 Lille. Bulletin Scientifique du Department du Nord, Nov. & Dec. 1879. The 

 Editor. 

 Societe des Sciences, de 1' Agricultui-e et des Arts. Memories, 4e ser., T. 

 7 and 8. The Society. 

 Lisbon. Associacao des Engenheiros Civis Portuguezes. Revista de Obras 



publicas e Minas. T. 10, Nos. 118, 121. The Society. 

 Liverpool. Free I'ublic Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery, 27th 

 annual report. The Trustees. 




ADD1TI0^'^^ TO MHUARV. 44.'> 



London. Annals and Magazine of Natuviil IliMory, Dec, 1><79 — Nov., IKHO. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Astronomical Register, Oct., 187!» — Nov., isso. j. V. William.-on Fund. 

 British As.?ociation fur the Advancement of Science. Report, 4'.Mh 



meeting. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Curtis' Botanical Magazine, Nos. lirJ-ll2o. I. V. Willinm-on Fund. 

 Entomological Society. Transactions, 187i). The Society 

 Gardner' .s Chronicle, No.«. -iOl-^o'J. The Editor. 



Geological Magazine, Oct., 1S79 — Nov., isso. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geological Society. Quarterly .Journal, Nos. 140-148. The Society. 

 Hardwickes Science Gossip, Oct., 1879 — Nov., l.SHt. I. V. William-ion 



Fund. 

 Ibis, Oct., 1879— July, 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. I'J, I'l. li ; Vol. Vi, No. 2 — 



Vol. 14, No. 1. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign, Oct.. 1879 — Nov., 1880. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Physiology, Michael Foster. Vol. 2, Nos. 3-6. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Journal of Science, Oct., 1879 — Nov., 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Linnean Society. Journal, Botany, Vol. Hi, Nos. 93-Ui2 : /oology, Vol. 

 1-5, Nos. 72-79. Transactions. 2d Ser., Zoology, Vol. 1, Pt«. .3-8: 

 Botany, Vol. 1, I'ts. 5 and 6. List, 1877-78. The Society. 

 London. Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical .Magazine, Dec, 1879 — Nov.. 



1880. I. V. Williamson Eund. 

 Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical Maga- 

 zine, Vol. 2, Nos. 15-18. The Society. 

 Nature, Nos. 524-5G0, o62-5tj(3, 568-573, 575, 576. The Editor. 

 Notes and Queries, Nov., 1879— Oct.. 1880. The Editor. 

 Popular Science Review, Oct., 1879 — Oct., 1880. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, Oct., 1879 — Oct., INW. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, n. s. Vol. 



12, Nos. 1-3. The Society. 

 Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, d.s. Vol.2, Nos. 1-8. Journal. 



Vol. 48. J he Society. 

 Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 and 2. 



The Society. 

 Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, Vol. 2, No. 7 — Vol. 8, No. 5. The 



Society. 

 Society of Arts. Journal, Vol. 27. The Society. 

 Triibners American and Oriental Literary Record, Nos. 143-164. The 



Publisher. 

 Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1^79, No. 4 — 1880, No. 2. Transactions, 



Vol. 10, No. 13 and Vol. 11, No. 2. The Society. 

 Zoologist. Oct., 1879— Nov., 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Canada. The Canadian Entomologist, Vol. 10, No. 12 — Vol. 12. No. 



10. The Editor. 

 Louvain. Cniversiie Catholiijue. Annuaire, 44me Annce. Twenty-three 



Thesis. The University. 

 Liibeck. Naturhistorische Museum, .lahresbericht, 187'.'. The Society. 

 Luxembourg. Institut Royal. Publications, T. 17. The Society. 

 Lyon. .\cad('mie des Sciences. Belles- Lett res et Arts. Mcmoires, Classe dos 

 Sciences, T. 23 : Classe des Leitres, T. 18me. The Society. 

 Socicii- dAgriculture, Histoire Nalurelle et Arts utiles. Anuale.n 4me 



Ser., T.,10me; tme Ser., T. 1. The Society. 

 Societi! d'Etudes Scient*ti(iues. Bulletin No. !, Tomes 4 anil '>. The 



Society. 

 Societe Linn^enne. Annales, n. s. T. 23, 24 and 2.">. Th» Society. 




44('> ADDITIONS TO MURARY. 



Ma.lisoii. Botanical Gazette, Vol. o, No. 1. The Editor. 



Madriil. Memorial de lugenieros y revista cientitico-militar, Ano ;):5. No. 22 — 



.\no •'>•'>. No. 21. The Editors. 

 Marhiirg. (Jesellschaft ziir Befiirileruiig der gesamniten Naturwissenschaften. 

 Sitzungsberichte, .lahrg., 1878-7U. Schriften, 8vo, Bd. 2, No,?. 4, 6, 6. 

 Scliriften, 4to, Bd. 2, Supplcinentheft, 1-4. The Society. 

 Metz. .\cad(inie. Memoires, Anm-es 77 and 78. The Society. 



Societe dhistoire naturelle. Bulletin, 2e Ser., 5me Cahier, Ire Partie. 

 The Society. 

 Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. .Vnnales, III, 185 et seq. Minister of Works, 

 Mexico. 

 .Museo Nacional. .Vnales, Vol. 1, No. 7 — Vol. 2, No. 2. The Director. 

 Kevista cientitica Mexicana, T. I, Nos. 1-11. The Editor. 

 Sociedad de Geografia y Estadistica de la Republica Mexicana. Boletin, 



T. 4. No. 7— T. o, No. 3. The Society. 

 Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaleza, T. 4, Nos. 16-20. 

 The Society. 

 Milan. Accademia fisio-medico-statistica. Atti, 1880. The Society. 



Regio Istituto technico superiore. Programma, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Milwaukee. Naturhi.storischer Verein von Wisconsin. Jahresbericht fiir das 



.Jahre, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Montpellier. Acad(5mie des Sciences et Lettres. Momoires de la Section des 



Sciences T. 9, 2e Fasc. The Society. 

 Montreal. Annuaire de Ville-Marie, pme Livr. and 2d Vol., 1 and 2 Livr. 

 and Supplement. L. A. Huguet-Latour. 

 Canadian Naturalist, n. s. Vol. 9, Nos. 4, 5, 6. The Editor. 

 Natural History Society. Proceedings, 18G9, '70, '71, '73, '7-^. Annual 



reports, 5th-9th ; Constitution and By-Laws. L. A. Huguet-Latour. 

 Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Canadian Antiquarian, Vol. 9, Nos. 

 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Moscow. Societe Imp^riale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1878, Nos. o and 4; 



1879, No. 1. Nouveau Memoires, T. 14, Livr. 1. The Society. 

 Munich. Gesellschaft fur Anthropologic, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte. Bei- 

 trage, oer Bd., Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 K. Sternwarte. Beobachtungen, 1879. The Director. 



K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math..phys. 

 Classe 1879, No. 1 — 1880, No. 2. Abhandlungen, historische Classe, 

 14er Bd., 3e ,\bth. ; loer Bd., ler Abth.: philos.-philol. Classe, 14er 

 Bd.. 2e Abth. ; loer Bd., le Abth. ; malhem.-physik. Classe, 13er Bd., 

 2e Abth. 

 Naples. R. Istituto d' Incoraggiamento alle Scienze naturali, economiche e 



technologische. Atti, 2 Ser., T. 16. The Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg, 



83 Jaiirg. The Society. 

 Neuchatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, T. 11, 3me Cahier. 



The Society. 

 New Berlin. Entomologist's Exchange, Nos. 1-6. J. S. Kingsley. 

 New Haven. .Vmerican .Journal of Science and Arts, Dec, 1879 — Nov., 1880. 

 The Editor. 

 Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Transactions, Vol. o, No. 1. 

 The Society. 

 New York. Academy of Sciences. Annals, Vol. 1, Nos. 9-13. The Society. 

 American IJookseller, Vol. 8, No. 11— Vol. 10, No. 1. The Editor. 

 .Vmerican Chemical Society. JouVnal, Vol. 1, No. 10 — Vol. 2, No. 7. The 



Society. 

 .\merican Entomologist, Vol. 3, No. 2. The Editor. 



.Vmerican Geographical Society. Bulletin 1§80, No. 1 ; .Journal. Vol. 10. 

 The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 447 



American Journal of .Microscopy, Vol. 4, No. '2 — Vol. ;'>. No. )<• Th»' 



K<iitor. 

 American Monthly Microscopical Journal. Vol 1, Nos. 1-11. The 



Editor. 

 American Mu.seum of Natural History, llih .\niuial Report. The IMrector. 

 Forest and Stream. Vol. 1::. No. •J<J— Vol. lo. Nm. 17. The Editor. 

 Index .Mcdicus, Vol. '2. Nos. 1-10. \Vm. S. Vaux. 



Library Journal, Vol. 4, No. 11 — Vol. o. No. 10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Monthly Index to current perioilical literature. Vol. 1, No. •'). The I'uh- 



lisher. 

 New Vork Medical Eclectic. Nov. 187'.t— Oct. 1880. The Editor. 

 New York Medical Journal. Dec. IHTIt — Nov. 1HH<I. The Editor. 

 Popular Science Monthly, Dec. 187't— Dec. 1880. The Edit.r. 

 Publishers' Weekly, Vol'. 18. Nos. l-f>. The Editor 

 Science, Vol. 1, Nos 1-1'li The Editor. 

 Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, Vol. tJ, No. .j'.i— Vol. 7. No. 10. The 



Society. 

 Orleans. Societo d'.Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Mi-moires 



Vol. 21, Nos. 2 & .3. The Society. 

 Paris. Acadi'-mie des Sciences. Comptcs Rendus, Vols. 87, 88 & 80. M^- 



moires, T. 41, The Society. 

 Annales des Mines. T. 14, ome Livr.''. — T. 17, 4ine Livr. Minister "f 



Public Works, France. 

 .\nnales des Sciences Geologinues, T. 11, Nos. 1 iS: 2. The Editor. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles, Zoologie el Paleontologie, T. 8, No. 4 — 



T. '.I, No. 6; Botanique. T. 8, No. 3— T. 10, No. 1. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 .\rchives de Zoologie experimentale et g^nrrale. 1879 & 1880, Nos. 1—3. 

 , I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ecole polytechniijue. Journal, T. 28. The Director. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie, T. 19, No. 4— T. 20, No. 3. The Editor. 

 Museum d'llistoire Naturelle Noavelles .Vrchives. 2me Sor., T. 2, Fasc. 



2. The Directors. 

 Revue Internationale des Sciences. 1879, No. 11 — 1880, No. 8. The 



Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de I'Etranger, 9me .\nni'e No. 20 — 1881 



No. 4. The Editor. 

 Soci^te d'Acclimatation. Bulletin. Sept. 1879 — AqvU. 1880. The Society. 

 Societe des Antiquaires de Picardie. .Memoires, 3me Ser.. T. 6. The 



Society. 

 Sociuto Botanique de France. T. 25me, 5, Title, etc.; T. 26me. 1, 2. 3, 



Rev. Bibl. C. D. E. ; T. 27me, 1 Comptes Rendus, 2 & 3, Rev. Bibl. A. 



The Society. 

 SociiHo Entomologique de France. Annales, 5me Ser. T. •"» — T. lOme. 



Partie Supplem. The Society. 

 Society Geologique de France. Bulletin, Vol. 7, Nos. 4-7. The Society. 

 Sociote nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, Ann-e IXXO. Nos. 



o & tj. The Society. 

 Socit'te Zoologi<|ue. Bulletin. 1879, 1-4. The Society. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natur.'il Sciences. Proceedings 1879, No. i — 1^80, 



No. 2. The Publication Committee. 

 Afield ami Afloat, n. s. Vol. 1, No. lo. The Editor. 

 .\merican Entomological Society. Transactions, Vol. 7, No. 4 — Vol. 8, 



No. 2. Proceedings, May, 1880. The Publication Committee. 

 .\nierican Journal of .Medical Sciences, Jan. to Oct., 1880. The Editor. 

 .Vmerican Journal of Pharmacy. Dec. 1879 — Nov. 1H80. The Editor. 

 American Naturalist. Dec. 1879— Dec. 1880. The Editor. 

 .\merican Pharmaceutical .Association. Proceedings, 27th .\nnuftl Report. 



The Society. 




448 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 103-106. The 



Society. 

 Dental Cosmos, Dec. 1S79— Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Franklin Institute Journal. Dec. 1870— Nov. 1880. The Society. 

 Gardener's Monthly. Dec. 187U— Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Magazine, Vol. o, No. 4 — Vol. I, 



No. o. The Society. 

 Medical News and Abstract, Nos. 444-456. The Editor. 

 Naturalist's Leisure Hour. Nov. 1870— Nov. 1880. The Editor. 

 Pennsylvania Museum and School of Industrial Art, 4th Annual Report. 



The Director. 

 Stoddart's Review, Vol. 1, Nos. 1-19. The Editor. 

 Zoological Society. 8th Annual Report. The Society. 

 Pisa. Nuovo Giornale Rotaoico Italiano, Vol. 12, No. 1-3. The Editor. 



Societa Malacologica Italiana. Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 21 — Vol. 6, No. 14. 



The Society. 

 Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturale. Processi Verbal!, Nov. 1879 — 

 9 Mag. 1880. Memorie, Vol. 4. No. 2. The Society. 

 Poughkeepsie. Society of Natural Science. Proceedings, Oct. 1, 1878, to 



July 1, 1870. The Society. 

 Providence. Rhode Island Historical Society. Proceedings 1878-79. The 

 Society. 

 Literary and Historical Society. Session 1879-80. The Society. 

 Regensburg. K. B. Botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, n. r. 37er Jahrg. The 

 Society. 

 Zoologisch-mineralogischer Verein. Correspondenz-Blatt, 33er Jahrg. 

 The Society. 

 Rome. R. Academia dei Lincci. Atti, Serie Terza, Transunti Vol. 4, Fasc. 



1-7. ■ The Society. 

 St. Gallen. Naturwi.ssenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht 1877-78. The 



Society. 

 St. Louis. Academy of Natural Sciences. Transactions, Vol. 4, No. 1. The 

 Society. 

 Missouri Historical Society, Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Repertorium fiir Meteor- 

 ologie, Bd. 6, H. 2. Memoires, T. 26, No. 12— T. 27, No. 4. Bulletin, 

 Vol. 2.J, No. 3— Vol. 26, No. 1. The Society. 

 Hortus Petropolitanus. Acta, T. 6, Fasc. 2. The Director. 

 Physikalische Central Observatorium. Annalen, 1878, Nos. 1 & 2. The 



Director. 

 Societas Entomologica. Horae, T. 14. The Society. 

 Salem. Essex Institute. Bulletin, A^ol. 11, No. 10— Vol. 12, No. 6. The 



Society. 

 Santiago de Chile. Revista Mfdica de Chile. Ano 7, Nos. 1 & 2. The 

 Editor. 

 Universidad de Chile. Anales, 1872, Nos. 1 & 2. The University. 

 Schweizerische naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen. Jahresb. 



1877-78, 1878-79. The Society. 

 Springfield. Familiar Science and Fancier's Journal. December, 1880. The 



Editor. 

 Staunton. The Virginias, Nos. 1-10. The Editor. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Verein. Zeitung, Jahrg. 40. The Society. . 

 Stockholm. Entomologisk Tidskrift, I, 1 & 2. The Editor. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Paleontologie. 

 1879, 8 H.— 1880, Bd. 2, H. 1. The Editor. 

 Verein fiir vaterlandische naturkunde in Wiirttemberg, 36er Jahr. The 

 Society. 

 Sydney. Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, Vol. 

 12. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIHKAKY. 449 



Tokio. Uuiver.sity.Scieuce Department. Menioii^;, Vol. 1. Pt. I. The University. 

 Toronto. Entomological Society. Annual Kepnrt, 1H79. The Society 

 Toulouse. Acadrmie Jcs Sciences. Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. M^moires, 

 Table des Mat. de la Tme Ser., Snie Ser., T. 1., No?. 1 and 2 and T. 2. 

 The Society. 

 Revue Mycologique, 2e Anin-e, Nos. 1 and 2. The Editor 

 Trie.ste. Societa Adriatica dc Scienze Natural!. BoUettina, Vol. o. No. 2. 



The Society. 

 Tromso. Museum. Aai'shefter, 11. The Museum. 

 Upsal. Ohservatoire de TUniversite. Bulletin, VIII. The Director. 



Regia Societas Scientiaruni. Nova Acta, ^e Ser., Vol. 10. No. 2. The 

 Society. 

 Utrecht. K. nederlandsch niefeorologis'ihe In.«tituut. .laarboek, 187V*. The 



Editor. 

 Vienna. Anthropologische Gesellschal't. .Mittheilungen. '■• Bd.. No«. 7 and 

 8, 10 Bd., Nos. 1-7. The Society. 

 Erabryologische Institute der K. K. Universitat. Mittheiluneen, I Bd., 4 



H. : 2 Bd., 1 H. J. V. Williamson Fun<l. 

 K. Akadeniie der Wissenscliaften. Sitzungsbeviehte, Mathem.-naturw. 

 (^asse. 7G Bd. I. 1-5 H., II. 2-5 H., Ill, l-"> II.: 77 Bd. I. 1-5 H., II, 

 1-5 H., Ill, l-j H.; 78 Bd. I, 1-5 H., II. 1-5 H., Ill, 1-5 H. : 79 Bd. II, 

 1-3 II., Ill, 1-5 II. Denkschriften, mathem.-naturw. Classe. 39er Bd. 

 The Society. 

 K. K. geologischen Reichsanstalt. .lahrbuch, 29er Bd., :> and 4, 188<), Nos. 

 1, 2 and o. Verhandlungen, 187'.t, No. 10: 1880, No. 11. Abhand- 

 lungen, Bd. 7, H. 5. The Director. 

 K. Iv. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen. Vol. 29. The 



Society. • 



Oesterreichische Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Zeilschrift, 18 Bd. The 



Society. 

 Verein zur Verbreitung nijturwissenschaftlicher Keuntnisse. Schriften, 



20er Bd. The Society. 

 Zoologische Institute. Arbeiteu, T. 2. II. 2 ,.S: :! ; T. o. H. 1. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Wa.sliington. Philosophical Society. Bulletin, Vols. 1, 2 and :l. The Society. 

 United States National Museum. Proceedings, Vol. 1. Department of 

 the Interior. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, Vol. 12. The Society. 

 Worcester. American Antiquai-ian Society. Proceedings, Nos. 74 and 75. 



The Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Botanische Institut. .\rbeiten, 2er Bd.,;5 II. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Physikalisch-mediciaische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen. Neue Folge. 14 



Bd., 1-4 H. The Society. 

 Zoologische-zootomische Institut. Arbeiteu, oer Bd.. 1 H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschafr. Vierteljahrsachrift. 28er .Tahrg., 1-4 

 H. The Society. 





INDEX TO UENEBA. 



«6I 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



1880. 



Abies 333, 341, 350 



Acanthocycles 37 



Acanthodoris 88 



Actjfion 366 



Acmiecopleura 188, 204 



Adalaria 75 



Akiodorus 52 



Alee 309 



Ambrosia 343 



Ampelopsis 5 



Amphicarpica 359 



Amphidesma 21, 20 



Anarcharis 334 



Analeite 252 



Anciliaria 364, 365 



Andromeda 356 



Anomia 21, 24 



Antrozous 227 



Aratus 189, 218 



Arctomys 348 



Area 21, 23. 24, 29 



Artemis 21, 23, 24, 25, 29 



Artibeus 393 



Arvieola 348 



Asbolite 243 



Asaulina 336, 339 



Astarte 364 



Astrophycus 293 



Astarte 21, 23, 24, 29, 32 



Atalapha 133, 393 



Atta 359 



Betula 343 



Biotite 246 



Bonelliu 29 



Brachygrapsiis 188, 203 



Branch i pus 156 



Buccinum 28 



Bunias 132 



Buthotrephis 293 



Calyniene 176 



Cancellaria 29, 365, 369 



Cancer l~'j 



Canis 348 



Cardita 21, 24, 364, 366 369 



Carditamera 32 



Cardium 21, 23, 24, 29, 365. 369 



Carex 353 



Cariacus 395 



Caricella 368, 373 



Carya 34^* 



Cassidaria :',i]:, 



Castanea 3')| 



Castor :Us 



Castoroides : ; 4 7 



Cafostomus 237 



Caulolatilus 13, 14 



Centaurea lo-j 



Centropyxis.- ;];;<< 



Cervus 34H 



Chasniagnathu.s 1 89, 221 



Chelydra 348 



Chirocephalus 156 



Chromite 27;'. 



Cistudo 348 



Clistocceloma 189, 219 



Coplogenys 391, 396 



("onus 348 



Cookeite 249 



Corbula..21, 23, 24, 25, 27, 29, 32. 364 



Cornus 348 



Crassatella 21, 23, 24, 29, 32 



Crepis 132 



Culaageeite 253 



Cyclogriipsus 189, 22i* 



Cy clolomn !:"_' 



Cylicosiiiilia 864 



Oyonycteris 39;> 



Cyperus 1;{*J 



("yriograpsua 188. 197 



Cyllierea..21, 23. 24, 29, 864. 366. 370 




4n2 



1N1»EX TO UENERA. 



Calcyiloris 89 



Damoui'it e -49, 



Dantbonia 



Dasyprocta 386, 392, 



Dekaya 



Uentalium 28, 29, 865, 367, 



Uesmodiuni 



Desmodus 133, 



Diaulula 



Dicotyles 



Didelphys 



Difflugia 3o5, 



Dilocarcinup 



Dolomite 



Uoridunculus 



Doris 



Echinospermuui 



Echinus 



Epigrapsus 188, 



Epomophorus 



Epsomite 



Erethizon 848, 389, 892, 



Erinaceus 



Eriocheir 189, 



Euchirograpsus 188, 



Euglypha 330, 



Euphyllite 



Eustrongylus 



256 

 843 

 396 



13 

 875 

 132 

 893 



40 

 347 ' 

 389 

 338 



35, 

 243 



52 



85 



131 

 27 

 192 

 893 

 257 

 896 



Felis 



Fiber 



Filaria 10, 



Fimbristylus 



Fissurella 



Flourite 



Formica 



Fucoides 



Fvisus 28, 864, 365. 371, 



210 

 202 

 838 

 249 

 131 



348 

 348 

 13U 

 182 

 29 

 243 

 376 

 298 

 375 



Garnet 241 



Gelagimus 185 



Geograpsus 188, 195 



Glyptograpsus 189, 206 



Goniopsis 188, 189 



Gordius 131 



Gorilla 128 



Grapsodes 188, 197 



Grapsus.. 188, 192 



Heleopera 835, 838 



Helice 189, 219 



Helix 848 



Hemifusus 872 



Hemitripterus 233 



H esperomy s 848 



Heterograpsus ..189, 207 



Hieroehloe 844 



H olograpsus 224 



Homnlonotus 176 



Hottonia 157 



Houston i a 849 



Hy !ilosphenia 885, 840 



Hydra 156 



Hypnum 338, 343 



Hypocluxu'is 132 



Infuudi bulum 29, 866 



Isocardia 21. 28, 24, 29, 32 



Jarosit e 831 



Jeiferisite 253 



Jorunna 46 



Juglans 348 



Killingia 132 



Lfevibuccinum 864, 371 



Lagostomus 886, 391 



Lamellidoris 58 



Lasiony cteris 393 



Lasiurus 133 



Latilus 13 



Leda 21, 28 



Leiolophus 189, 224 



Leda 865 



Lemna 230 



Lepidium 132 



Lepidolite 248 



Lepidomelane 247 



Leptograpsus 188, 196 



Lepton 21 



Leptony X 227 



Lepus 848 



Leucoea 132 



Lignite 281 



Lima 21, 23, 29 



Linguella 59 



Lonchoglossa 893 



Lucina 21, 23, 24, 29 



Macacus 387 



Macrobiotus 333 



Mactra 21, 24, 27 



Margarite 251 



Marginella 29 



Megaderma 393 




INDEX To (iENERA. 



45H 



MelHuipii?- 27 



Melanipvvum -WJ 



Mcleagris 348 



Mephitis o48 



Mcrniis 1.'51 



Mesopitliecus 175 



Metafesarma 18'.l, ill 



Metopograp.sus 188. 100 



Milleriie 243 



Modiola 21.24. 27 



Molossii« 350, .30o Pfychognathus 



Molyli'leuite 243 Putorius 



Muscovite 242, 247 , Pyropbyllite 



Mya 21, 24. 27 ' Pvrulii 365, 36 



Myti!n< 21. 2?.. ;-f2 



I'l II ma tell 11 



I'ol^'cera 



Polyergus 



Populus 



Pvochlorite 



Procy on 



Psci 1 d ograpsus 1 88. 



Pseuiloliva 865, 



Pseudothelphusa 



Pteropus. 



188, 



157 

 105 

 376 

 .153 

 •J5I 

 348 

 204 

 371 

 34 

 398 

 203 

 348 

 248 

 374 



Nasua 388 



Natica 27, 364, 365, 368 



Nautilograpsus 187, 188, 201 



Nebela 383, 336 



Neotorna 347 



Noctilio 393, 394 



Nucula 28 



Nuphar 15" 



Nycteris 133 



Ocypoda 179 



Onchidoris 59 



Orthograpsus 188. 194 



Ostrea 21, 23, 24, 32, 364-366 



Oxalis 350 



(juercus 128, 342 



Pacby grapsus 188. 



Pectunciilus 22, 24, 



Palaeopb vciis 



Palio ....". 



PanopiL'a 21, 24, 



Partula 



Pecten 22, 24, 25, 30, 366, 



Perigrapsus 180, 



Periplouia 



Perna 22, 24, 27, 



Petricola 22, 



Philadelpiiite 310, 



Phlogophite 



Plioli'loniya 22. 



Pbolas....! 22. 24, 



Phyllovbina 133, 



Phylo.stoma 



Pinus 



Pitbecolobiuui 



Placoei<ta 



Plagusia 189. 



Platycrapsus 180, 



Pleurotoma..29. 365. 36f,. 368, 369, 

 Plica) Ilia 22. 



Randite 



Rangifer 



Rbaconotus 



Rhinopoma 



Rbipidolite 



Rbododendron 



Riccia 



Rochelia 



Rostellaria 



Rotifer 



198 



29 



293 



108 



25 



229 



369 



210 



32 



32 



24 



313 



244 



25 



25 



339 



392 



341 



355 



339 



223 



210 



373 



32 



bancara 



Sarmatiuni 189, 



Saxicava 22, 25, 



Scalaria 28, 



Scalops ... 



Sciurus 348, 



Semnopithecus 



Serpentine 241, 248, 



Serpula 



Se.saraia 189, 



Siderite; 



Siderophyllite 



Sigarefus 



Sirnia 



Solarium 29, 364, 365, 



Solecurtus 



Solen 22. 25, 



SpirosI omum 



Spongilla 380, 



Steatite 



St en tor 



Sterlingite 



Strepsidura 



Streptocepbalus 



Talc 



Tarn i as. 



.248. 



274 

 347 

 213 

 359 

 251 

 333 

 230 

 131 

 364 

 333 



57 

 212 



32 



29 

 348 

 389 

 175 

 273 



27 

 213 

 242 

 254 



29 

 160 

 375 



27 



27 

 167 

 357 

 273 

 157 

 256 

 372 

 15ti 



252 

 348 




454 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Taxodium 9 Varuna 187, 188, 205 



Tellina 22, 24 Venericardia 366 



Thelphusa 35 Venus 22,24,25, 29, 32 



Thuja 9 Vermiculite 250 



Tornatella 3G4, 366 Vespertilio 227, 348 



Trinema 336, 339 Vesperugo 393 



Triopha 108 Vesperus 373 



Triticum 132 Vitis 10 



Tritonium 369 Voluta 29, 365 



Trochus 29 Volvox 157 



Turbinella 364, 373 Vorticella 157 



Turritella 29, 365 | Vulpes 348 



Unio 348 



Ursus 349 i 



Utica 189, 206 : Yucca 



Wistaria 358 



355 




INDKX. 



45.'. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Additions to Library. 420. I 



Agnew, Wm. G. E., Announcement of i 

 death of, 22G. 



Allen, H., Description of a foetal 

 Walrus, 38; Mammary Glands of I 

 Bats, 13o; On some homologies in } 

 Bunodont Dentition, 226; The Pha- 

 langes of Bats, 35'.i : On the Tem- 

 poral and Masseter Muscle? of 

 Mammals, 385. 



Barbeck, Wm., On tlie Development of 

 Lemna Minor, 226. 230. 



Bergh, R., On the Nudibranchiate 

 Gasteropod Mollusca of the North 

 Pacific, with special reference to 

 those of Alaska, 9, 40. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 Report of. 41 o. 



Botanical Section, Report of, 418. 



Borie, A. E., Announcement, of death 

 of, 128. 



Brewer, T. M., Announcement of 

 death of, 12. 



liudd. Dr. Chas. H., Announcement of 

 death of, 355. 



("ardeza, J. M 



Sandstone, 280: Garnet 

 for Corundum, 295. 



Chapman. H. C, On the Gestation and 

 Generative Apparatus of the Ele- 

 phant, 134, 1.58; On the Structure 

 of the Orang Outang, l.')9, 160. 



(.'onchological Section, Report of, 414. 



Oesson, Ezra T., Election to Council, 

 357. 



Elections during 1880, 428. 



Entomological Section, Report ot, 421. 



Fisher, Jas. C, Announcement of 

 death of. 351. 



Foote, A. E., A new locality for Anal- 

 cite, 252 ; On a ])robable Pseudor- 

 morphism of Gummite and Urano- 

 tile after Uraninite. 292; On a large 

 Sphene from <'anada, 341. 



Fossil ('.') Casts in 

 mistaken 



Fox, Wm. Logan, Announcement of 

 death of, 159. 



Garrett, Andrew, The Terrestrial Mol- 

 lusca inhabiting the Cooks or Har- 

 vey Islands, 9, 158. 



Genth, F. A., Jr., The so-called Emery- 

 Ore from Chelseii. Bethel Township. 

 Delaware Co., Pa., 311. 



Gilbert, Wm. Kent, Announcement of 

 death of. 226. 



Haines, R., Analysis of Philadelphite, 

 310. 



Announcement of 

 L., Announcement 



Haldeman. S. S. 

 death of. 341. 



Hallowell. Morris 

 of death of, 226. 



Hartman. W. D., Description of a 

 Partula supposed to be New, from 

 the Island of Moorea, 225, 229; A 

 Bibliogrophical Catalogue of the 

 Genus Partula, 226. 



Hays, Isaac, Resolution of Thanks for 

 Portrait of, 356. 



Heilprin, A., On the Stratigraphical 

 Evidence afforded by the Tertiary 

 Fossils of the Peninsula of Mary- 

 land, 20 ; On some Lower Eocene 

 Mollusca from Clarke Co., Ala.,witl> 

 some points as to the Stratigraphical 

 position of the Beds containing them, 

 359. :!64. 



Hering, Constantine, Announcement of 

 death of, ;>10. 



Hess, R. •!., Report of Biological and 

 Microscopical Section. 414. 



Horn, Geo. H., Rejiori of Ci«rresp<ind- 

 ing Secretary, 4(>7. 



Index to Genera, 451. 



.leanes, Joshua. T., Announcement of 

 death of, 9; Resolution reganling 

 Bequest of, 225. 



JetVeris. W, W., .\ new locality for 

 Fluorite, 243 ; A new locality for 

 .Vmetbyst, 280; A new C^onmdum 




456 



INDEX. 



locality, 280: Mcnaccanite and Talc 

 from Marylaml, '2\^'2; Sunstone in 

 Labradorite, -?'2. 



Kelly. H. A.. Sartorius Muscle of the 

 Goiilla, 128. 



King, Dr. Wm. M., Announcement of 

 death of, 134. 



Kingsley. .1. S., Carcinological Notes, 

 No. 1, 34: Carcinological Notes, No. 

 2, Revision of the Gelasimi, 12, 135 ; 

 Carcinological Notes, No. 3, 179; 

 Carcinological Notes. No 4, 134, 

 187. 



Koenig, Geo. A., Note!> on .Jarosite, 

 231. 



Lautenbach. 13. F., Announcement of 

 death of, 226. 



Laporte, Count de Castelnau, An- 

 nouncement of death of, 156. 



Lea, Is-iac, Resolution of thanks for 

 Portrait of, 159. 



Leidy, .Jos., Notice of the Cruel Thread 

 Worm, Filaria immitis, of the Dog, 

 1" : On a Filaria reported to have 

 come from a Man, 130 : Remarks 

 on Pond Life, 15G : Rhizopods in 

 the Mosses of tlie Summit of Roan 

 Mountains, N. C, 332, 333 ; Bone 

 Caves of Pennsylvania, 346 : The 

 Parasites of the Termites, 351, 354 ; 

 Remarks on Bathygnathis borealis, 

 351, 354: Report of Curators, 410. 



Lewis, H. C, A new Polariscope, 241 ; 

 A Garnet with inverted crystalliza- 

 tion, 241 : A new locality for Sider- 

 ite, 242 ; Magnetite Markings in 

 Muscovite, 242 : A new locality for 

 Asbolite, 243 : Epidote in Molyb- 

 denite, 243 : The optical characters 

 of some Micas, 244 ; On the Meas- 

 urement of Plane Angles, 252; On 

 an Exfoliated Talc. 252; Tin in 

 North Carolina, 253 : On Siderophyl- 

 lite — a new mineral, 254 ; On Ster- 

 lingite and Damourite, 256 ; Vana- 

 dium in Philadelphia rocks, 256: A 

 new locality for Epsomite, 257 ; The 

 surface geology of Philadelphia and 

 vicinity, 258 ; On the Bryn Mawr 

 Gravel, 277 ; On some enclosures in 

 Mica, 278; On Dendrites, 278; On 

 a Jurassic Sand, 279: The Minerals 

 of Surry County, N. C, 280; A new 

 locality for Lignite, 281 : On Ser- 

 pentine in Bucks Co., 281 ; The Iron 

 Ores and Lignite of the Montgomery 

 Co. Valley, 282 ; An enclo-ure in 

 Quartz, 292 ; On a new Fucoidal 

 plant from the Trias, 29;; ; The 



Trenton Giavel and its relation to 

 the Antiquity of Man, 296; Note on 

 Philadelphite — a new mineral, 310 ; 

 On Philadelphite, 313 : A Potsdam 

 Sandstone Outcrop on the S. Valley 

 Hill of Chester Valley, 329. 



Lippincott, Joshua, xVnnouncement of 

 death of, 355. 



Lockington, W. N., On the Pacific 

 species of Caulolatilus, 13 ; On a 

 new species of llemitripterus from 

 Alaska, 134, 233 : Description of a 

 new species of Catostomus (C. cypho) 

 from the Colorado River, 156, 237. 



McCook, Rev. H. C, Note on a new 

 Northern Cutting Ant (Atta septen- 

 trionalis), 359: The Shining Slave- 

 maker — Notes on the Architecture 

 and Habits of the American Slave- 

 making Ant (Polyergus lucidus), 

 37G. 



Martindale, Isaac C, Sexual variation 

 in Ca«tanea Americana, 351. 



Meehan, Thos., On . disarticulating 

 branches in Ampelopsis, 9 ; Germi- 

 nation in Acorns, 128; On the 

 Timber line of high mountains, 341 ; 

 Dimorphic flowers in Houstonia, 

 349 ; Cleistogamy in Oxalis uceto- 

 sella, 350; Sexual variation in Cas- 

 tanea Americana, 351 ; Rain Trees 

 — Note on Yucca gloriosa, 355 ; 

 Dioecism in Andromeda catesbsei, 

 356 ; Noie on the Seed-ves-els of 

 Wistaria, 358 : Report of Botanical 

 Section, 418. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 Proceedings of, 169. 241 ; Report 

 of, 422. 



Nolan, Edw. J., Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 406 ; Report of Librarian, 

 408. 



Officers for 1881, 



Parker, Chas. F., Report of Curator in 

 Charge. 410. 



Potts, Edw., Fresh-water Sponges of 

 Fairmount Park, 330; On Fresh- 

 water Sponges, 356. 



Proceedings of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section of the Academy, 

 for the years 1877, 1878 and 1879. 

 150, 241. 



Rand, Theo. D., Serpentine belts of 

 Radnor Township, Del. Co., 225; 

 Change of Serpentine into Quartz, 

 241; A new locality for Millerite, 

 243; A new locality for Gypsum, 

 252 ; On a belt of Steatite and Ser- 

 pentine in Radnor, Del. Co., 273 ; 




INDEX. 



4r,7 



Chromite near Kailiior. I'a., 21'', ; 

 Un Kandite, 274; Some microscopic 

 enclosures in gems, 276; I'ots'lam 

 Sandstone near King of Prussia, 

 271t ; On a peculiar siratification in 

 Gneiss, 280; The northern belt of 

 Serpentine in Radnor Township, 

 2()5 ; Report of Minenilogical and 

 Geological Section, 422. 



Redfield, J. II., On Rochelia patens, 

 131 ; On the timber line of high 

 mountains, oJ") ; Report of Botanical 

 Section, 41S. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 413. 



Report of Botanical Section, 418. 



Report of Conchological Section, 414. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 407 



Report of Curators, 41(^. 



Report of Entomological Section, 421. 



Report of Librarian, 408. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 422. 



Report of President, 3U7. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 406. 



Report of Treasurer, 42o. 



Report on Plants introduced by means 

 of the International Exhibition, 

 1876, 132. 



Rice, J., Announcement of death of, 

 130. 



Riding", James, aunounccmcnt of 



death of, 331. 

 Ridings, .1. H., Report of i-]ntoDiologi- 



cal Section, 421. 

 Robert, S. K., Report of Conchological 



Section, 414. 

 Roepper, W. T., .\nnouncemcnt of 



death of, loO. 

 Ruschenberger, W. S. W., Report of 



the President, 3'.»7. 

 Stauffer, .fac, .Announcement of death 



of. 134. 

 Tyndall, Hector, Announcement of 



death of, 134. 

 Vaux, Geo., Election to Council, lO ; 



Resignation from Council, 355. 

 Vodges, A. W., Description of a new 



Crustacean from the Upper Silurian 



of Georgia, with remarks upon Caly- 



niene fTintoni, 128, 170. 

 White, S. S., Announcement of death 



of, it. 

 Wilcocks, Dr. Alex., .Announcement of 



death of, 356. 

 Willcox, Jos., Some new mineral locali- 

 ties, 312: Repor* of Mineralogical 



and Geological Section, 422. 

 Wood, W. M., M. D., .Announcement 



of death of, 13i». 




^ 








PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





