





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



^s 



.75^ 



1861. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



PRINTED FOR THE ACADEMY. 

 18G2. 




I 

 K /A 




INDEX. 



Abbott, C. C, observations on Cottus 

 Copei Abbott, 2, 15 ; notes on the 

 habits of Aphredoderus Sajanus, 

 79, 95 ; on Cyprinus corporalis, &c., 

 152, 154; on Squalus americanus, 

 referring it to the genus Odontaspis, 

 390, 399. 



jEgiothus, monograph of, by Elliott 

 Cones, 373. 



Ailantlms silk-worm, remarks on, by 

 Dr. Stewardson, 525. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D., descriptions of 

 new Pteropine Bats from Africa, 153, 

 156 ; description of a new Mexican 

 Bat, 334, 359. 



Anableps, description of a new species 

 of, by T. Gill, 3 ; remarks on, by 

 Dr. Le Conte, 21 ; observations on, 

 by Prof. Wyman, 56. 



Anculosa, description of new species 

 of, by I. Lea, 14. 



Anodoutse, descriptions of two new 

 species of, by I. Lea, 56. 



Ants, note on, by S. B. Buckley, 9. 



Aphredoderus Sayanus, notes on the 

 habits of, by C. C. Abbott, 95. 



Anisotremus, by T. Gill, 105. 



Aristelliger, by E. D. Cope, 494, 



Aulostomatoids, on a new type of, 

 found in Washington Territory, 168. 



Baculites, revision of the species of, by 

 W. M. Gabb, 394. 



Bats, descriptions of new Pteropine, 

 from Africa, by H. Allen, M. D., 156 ; 

 description of a new Mexican, by H. 

 Allen, M. D., 359. 



Binney, W. G., Catalogue of Molluscs 

 from British N. America, 311, 330 ; 

 notes on the Molluscs of California, 

 311, 331. 



Blennoids, on a new generic type of, 

 by T. Gill, 261. 



Bombyx cynthia, (Ailanthus silk- 

 worm,) remarks on, by Dr. Steward- 

 son, 525. 



Brachiopoda, synopsis of American 

 cretaceous, by W. M. Gabb, 18. 



Brown, A. D., descriptions of two new 

 species of Helix, 311, 333. 



Buckley, S. B., notes on Ants in Texas, 

 2, 9 ; note on the Bartram Oak, 334, 

 361 ; description of new plants from 

 Texas, 391, 448. 



Cassin, J., communication in reference 

 to a new species of Goose from Arc- 

 tic America, 72 ; descriptions of new 

 Birds from Western Africa in the 

 Museum of the Academy, 334, 335. 



Centropyx, by E. D. Cope, 494. 



Cephalopod, description of a new car- 

 boniferous, by Wm. M. Gabb, 367. 



Chsenichthyoids, synopsis of, by T. 

 Gill, 507. 




INDEX. 



Clt^meuts, Dr. Ricliard, announcement 

 of the death of, 58. 



Clupeinse, synopsis of, by T. Gill, 33. 



Coleoptera, new species of, bv J. L. Le 

 Conte, M. D., 338. 



Coleopterous Fauna of Lower Cali- 

 fornia, by J. L. Le Conte, M. D., 335. 



Committees, election of Standing, 20. 



Cope, Edw. D., remarks on Reptiles, 

 73, 75 ; notes and descriptions of 

 Anoles, 205, 208 ; contributions to 

 the OpViiology of Lower California, 

 258, 292; on the Reptiles of Som- 

 brero and Bi'rmuda, 311, 312 ; on 

 the genera Panolopus, Centropyx, 

 Aristelliger, and Sphasrodactylus, 

 391, 494; observations upon certain 

 cyprinoid fish in Pennsylvania, 522 ; 

 on Elapomorphus, Sympholis, and 

 Coniophanes, 524. 



Corbicula, descriptions of new species 

 of, by T. Prime, 125. 



Cottus Copei, observations on, by C. 

 C. Abbott, 15. 



Coues, Elliott, monograph of the Trin- 

 gese of N. America, 153, 170 ; notes 

 on the Ornithology of Labrador, 205, 

 215 ; monograph of the genus ^gi- 

 othus, &c., 334, 373. 



Crustacea, notes on certain Decapod, 

 by Wm. Stimpson, 372. 



Curators, report of, 528. 



("yclades, synonymy of the, by Temple 

 Prime, 25. 



Cynipidse, on the sex of, by Baron 

 Osten Sacken, 150. 



Cvprinoid Fish, remarks ou certain, bv 

 ■ E. D. Cope, 522. 



Cyprinus corporalis, referred to genus 

 " Semotilus, by C. C, Abbott, 154. 



Cyrena, descriptions of new species of, 

 by T. Prime, 12-5. 



Diatomacese, notes on, by Dr. F. W. 



Lewis, 61. 

 Durand, E., report on Dr. Linsecum's 



collection of Texas plants, 98. 



Edwards, Wm. H., descriptions of cer- 

 tain species of Lepidoptera of the 

 United States, &c., 152, iCO. 



Elections, of officers, 530 ; of members 

 and correspondents, 531. 



Elliott, D. (jr., description of a new 

 species of Pitta, 153. 



Ennis, J., exhibited the young of Kale- 

 mys Muhlenbergii, showing certain 

 affinities of this genus, 124. 



[ Evans, Dr. John T., announcement ot 

 j the death of, 77. 



i Eventognathi, on the classification of, 

 by T. Gill, (3. 



I Fishes, on some genera of, from west- 



j ern coast of N. America, by T. Gill, 



j 164. 



I Fisher, James C, resignation of, as 

 Librarian, 257. 



Fossils, descriptions of new species of 

 tertiary, by Wm. M. Gabb, 367 ; de- 

 scription of new cretaceous, by Wm. 

 M. Gabb, 318, 363 ; ditto, by F. B. 

 Meek, 314; descriptions of palreo- 

 zoic, from Illinois and Iowa, by Meek 

 and Worthen, 128 ; descriptions of 

 new cretaceous, from Vancouver and 

 Sucia islands, by F. B. Meek, 314 ; 

 descriptions of new palseozoic, from 

 Kentucky and Indiana, by S. S. 

 Lyon, 409 ; descriptions of new lower 

 Silurian, Jurassic, Cretaceous and 

 Tertiary, by F. B. Meek and F. V. 

 Hayden, 415. 



Gabb, Wm. M., synopsis of American 

 cretaceous Brachiopoda, 1, 18 ; re- 

 marks on the Gryphsea calceola and 

 the Ostrea Marshii, 21 ; announced 

 his having discovered an outcrop of 

 the Ripley group near Gloucester, 

 124 ; list of the Mollusca inhabiting 

 the neighborhood of Philadelphia, 

 258, 306 ; descriptions of new cre- 

 taceous fossils from New Jersey, &c., 

 311, 318 ; descriptions of new tertiary 

 American fossils and a carboniferou.s 

 cephalopod, 334, 367 ; notes on cre- 

 taceous fossils, and descriptions of 

 new species, 334, 363 ; monograph 

 of the Polyzoa of the secondary and 

 tertiary formations of N. America, 

 334, 335 ; revision of the species of 

 Baculites described in Dr. Morton's 

 synopsis of the cretaceous group of 

 the United States, 390, 394. 



Gastrochsenidae, synopsis of the recent 

 species of, by G. W. Tryon, Jr., 465. 



Gill, Theodore, catalogue of the Mai ine 

 Fishes of the eastern coast of North 

 America, 1 ; di-scriiJtion of a nt*\\ 

 species of Anableps, 1, 3 ; on the 

 classification of the Eventognathi, or 

 Cyprini, 1, 6 ; appendix to the mo- 

 nograph of the Phylipni, and descrip- 

 tion of the genus Lembus of Giinther, 

 2, 16; synopsis of the subfamily 

 Clupinae, with descriptions of new 




INDEX. 



genera, 21, 33 ; synopsis of the sub- 1 

 family Percinfe, 21, 44 ; synopsis [ 

 generum Rhyptici et affinium, 21, j 

 52 ; on the identity of the genera i 

 Neonifenis of Uirard and Lutjanus of, 

 Bloch, 73, 93 ; revision of the ge- 1 

 nera of Scireninre of N. America, 73, ; 

 79 ; communication on several new 

 ueueric types of fishes, 77 ; on the ; 

 Haploidonotinre, 9S, 100; on the 

 genus Anisotremus, 9S, 105; ex-: 

 hibited and described two new spe- 

 cies of marine fishes, 98 ; synopsis 

 of the Uranoscopoids, 100, lOS ; ! 

 notes on some genera of fishes of the 

 western coast of N. America, lo3, 

 li34; on a new type of Aulostoma- 

 toids, 153, 168 ; on the genus Podo- [ 

 thecus, 258; description of a .new [ 

 generic type of Blennoids, 258, 261 ; i 

 monograph of the tridigitate Uranos- • 

 copoids, 258, 263; synopsis of the 

 Polynematoids, 258, 271 ; synopsis : 

 of the Sillaginoids, 391, 501; ditto i 

 of the Notothenoids, 391, 512; ditto] 

 of the Harpagife voids, 391, 510 ; ditto [ 

 of the Chffinichthyoids, 391. 507. \ 



Goose, communication in reference to ! 

 a new species of, from Arctic Ame- i 

 rica, by .J. Cassin, 72. 



Graham, Col. .J. D., letter from, men- j 

 tioning discovery by him of a diurnal j 

 tide in Lake Michigan, 1. i 



Grouse, description of a new species of. ■ 

 by G. Suckley, M. D., 361. 



Haploidonotinffl, by T. Gill, 100. 



Harpagiferoids, synopsis of, bvT. Gill, 

 510. 



Hayden, F. V., M. D., description of 

 fossils collected in Nebraska, &c., 

 390, 415. 



Hayes, Dr. Isaac I., invitation to ad- 

 dress the Academy in reference to 

 his late Arctic Expedition, 334 ; com- 

 plies with said request and places 

 his collection at the disposal of the 

 Academy, 335 



Helix, descrii'tion of two new species 

 of, by A. D. Brown, 333. 



Hemiptera, descriptions of four species 

 of, by P. R. Uhler, 284 ; rectification 

 of the paper upon, of the North Pa- 

 cific Exploring Expedition, 286. 



Homoptera, of the N. Pacific Exploring 

 Expedition, by P. R. Uhler, 282. 



Norn, George H., M. D., monograph of 

 *h<i Polyzoa of the secondary and 



tertiary formations of the United 



States, 334, 335, 

 Hutfnagle, Dr. Chas., announcement 



of the death of, by Mr. Sergeant, 1. 

 Hyporthodus flaviculata, new species 



described by T. Gill, 98. 



lo, descriptions of seven new species 

 of, by I. Lea, 393. 



Kalemys, young of, exlubited by J. 

 Ennis, showing affinities of the ge- 

 nus, 124. 



Keim, Geo. M., announcement of tlip 

 death of, 150. 



Kennicott, Robert, on three new forms 

 of Rattlesnakes, 205, 2U6. 



Lea, Isaac, descriptions of twenty-five 

 new species of Unionidje from Ga., 

 &c., 21, 38; description of a new 

 species of Neritina from Coosa River, 

 Ala., 21, 55 ; descriptions of two new 

 species of Auodonta, from Arctic 

 America, 21, 56 ; descriptions of new 

 species of Anodonta and Lithasia, 

 24, 54 ; descriptions of twelve new 

 species of Uniones from Alabama, 

 56, 59 ; exhibited specimen of slau; 

 in form of a cotton- like mass, 73 ; 

 description of new genus of Mela- 

 niadfe, occ, 77, 96; descriptions of 

 forty-nine new species of the genus 

 Melania, 100, 117 ; descriptions of 

 new fossil Mollusca from the cre- 

 taceous formation at Haddcnfield, 

 N. J., 124, 148 ; new Unionid* of 

 the United States, 334, 335 ; descrip- 

 tions of eleven new species of Unio, 

 391 ; descriptions of seven new spe- 

 cies of the genus lo, 3D1, 393. 



LeConte, .John L., M. D., new species 

 of Coleoptera of the Pacific district of 

 the United States, 334, 338 ; Coleop- 

 terous Fauna of Lower California, 

 334, 335. 



Lewis, Dr. Francis W., notes on new 

 and rare species of Diatomace;e ui 

 the United States, 56, 61. 



Lewis, Dr. James, extract of a letter 

 from, in reference to three species 

 of Paludina in the Erie Canal, 2 : 

 remarks on a very sudden fall of 

 temperature at Mohawk, N. Y., with 

 diagram, 22 ; letter in relation to 

 habits and growth of Uuionidse, 57. 



Leidy, Dr. -J., announced discovery of 

 lignite at the border of the new red 

 sandstone on Plymouth Creek, 77 




INDEX. 



Lembus, description of the genus, by 



T. Gill, 16. 

 Lepidoptera, on some species of, found 



in the United States, &c., by Wm. 



H. Edwards, 160. 

 Lignite, discovery of, on Plymouth 



Creek, 77. 

 Limnobiacfje, descriptions of nine new, 



by Baron R. Osten Sacken, 287. 

 Liostominae, communication on, by T. 



Gill, 89. 

 Lithasia, description of new species of, 



by I. Lea, 54, 

 Lutjanus, identity of, with Neomaenis, 



by T, Gill, 93. 

 Lyon, Sidney S., description of new 



Paleozoic Fossils from Kentucky and 



Indiana, 390, 409. 



Mammal, Description of a new Quad- 

 rumanous, by J. A. Slack, M. D.,463. 



Markland, Mr. John H., Announce- 

 ment of the death of, by Mr. Ser- 

 geant, 1. 



Meek, F. B. , descriptions of new Palseo- 

 zoic fossils from Illimns and Iowa, 

 124, 128 ; descriptions of new Cre- 

 taceous fossils from Vancouver and 



• Sucia Islands, 311, 314; description 

 of the lower Silurian, Jurassic, Cre- 

 taceous and Tertiary fossils collected 

 in Nebraska, &c., 390, 415, 



Melania, descriptions of forty- nine now 

 species of, by I, Lea, 117. 



Melanidse, description of a new genus 

 of, by I. Lea, 96. 



Miles, Manly, descriptions of two new 

 species of shells from Michigan, 124. 



Midas, description of a new species of, 

 by J. H. Slack, M. D., 463. 



Mollusca, descriptions of new fossil, by 

 I. Lea, 148 ; list of those inhabiting 

 the neighborhood of Philadelphia, 

 306 ; catalogue of, from British Ame- 

 rica, by W. G. Binney, 330 ; notes 

 on the Molluscs of California, by the 

 same, 331 ; on the Mollusca of Har- 

 per's Ferry, Virginia, by G. W. Try- 

 on, Jr., 396 ; synopsis of recent 

 species of Gastrochsenidse, a family 

 of Molluscs, by the same, 4C5, 



Moore, Dr. Samuel, announcement of 

 the death of, 56. 



Mosasaurus, remarks on bones of, 

 found in upper stratum of Marl, by 

 Dr. Slack, 2. 



Neomsenis, identity of, with Lutjanus, 

 by T. Gill, 93. 



Neritina, description of a new species 



of, by I. Lea, 55. 

 Norris, Thaddeus, remarks on a species 



of Osmerus, 56, 58. 

 Notothenoids, synopsis of, by T. Gill, 



512. 



Oak, Bartram, note on, by S. B. Buck- 

 ley, 361. 

 Ophiology, contributions to, by E. D. 



Cope, 292. 

 Ornithology of Labrador, by E. Coues, 



215. 

 Osmerus, remarks on, by T. Norris, 58. 

 Osten Sacken, Baron, on the sex of 



Cynipidse, 150. 

 Osten Sacken, Baron R., nine new 



species of N. American Limnobiadae, 



258, 287. 

 Otolicnus apicalis. Remarks by Dr. 



Slack on a species so called by Du 



Chaillu, 153. 



Panolopus, on the gerera Panolopus, 

 &c., by E. D. Cope, 494. 



Percinse, synopsis of, by T, Gill, 44, 



Peters, Francis, announcement of death 

 of, 125. 



Philypni, appendix to Monograph on, 

 by T. Gill, 16. 



Pitta, description of new a species of, 

 by D. G. Elliot, 153. 



Plants, descriptions of new, from Texas, 

 by S. B. Buckley, 448. 



Pleistocene, deposit of, on the shore of 

 James' Bay, 97. 



Podothecus, on the genus, by T. Gill, 

 258. 



Polynematoids, synopsis of, by T. Gill, 

 271. 



Prime, Temple, Synonymy of the Cy- 

 clades, &c.. No. 2, 21, 25 ; Descrip- 

 tions of new species of Cyrena, &c., 

 124, 125 ; Descriptions of three new 

 species of Mollusca, 391, 414 ; Mono- 

 graph of the species of Sphaerium of 

 North and South America, 391, 402, 



Ravenel, Edmund, description of new 

 recent shells from the coast of S. 

 Carolina, 21, 41. 



Rattlesnakes, on three new forms of, 

 by R. Kennicott, 206. 



Reptilia of Sombrero and Bermuda, by 

 E. D. Cope, 312. 



Rhyptici, synopsis of, by T. Gill, 52. 



Ripley Group, announcement of the 

 discovery of an outcrop of, near 

 Gloucester, by Mr. Gabb, 124. 




INDEX. 



Vll. 



Sciseninae, revision of the genera of, by 

 T. Gill, 79. 



Scolopendra, descriptions of new spe- 

 cies of, by H. C. Wood, Jr., 10. 



Secretary, Recording, report of, 526. 



Shad, remarks on the food of, by Dr. 

 Leidy, 2. 



Shells, descriptions of new, from the 

 coast of S. Carolina, 41 ; notice of, 

 from Hudson's Bay, 97. 



Shizostoma, description of new species 

 of, by I. Lea, 54 ; remarks of Dr. 

 Showalter on, 56. 



Showalter, Dr., of Alabama, remarks 

 on Shizostoma, 56. 



Sillaginoidese, synopsis of, by T. Gill, 

 501. 



Slack, Dr. J. H., remarks on some speci- 

 mens of Mammalia, 24 ; on a species 

 of the Lemuridse, called Otolicnus 

 apicalis by DuChaillu, 153 ; descrip- 

 tion of a new species of Rodent of the 

 genus Spermophilus, 311, 314 ; de- 

 scription of a new Quadrumanous 

 Mammal of the genus Midas, 391, 

 463 ; Guide to the collection of the 

 Academy, 391, 522. 



Spackman, Dr. George, announcement 

 of the death of, 205. 



Spermophilus, description of a new 

 species of, by J. H. Slack, M. D., 314. 



Suckley, George, M. D., U. S. A., de- 

 scription of a new species of Amer. 

 Grouse, 334, 361. 



Sphserium, descriptions of new species 

 of, by T. Prime, 125 ; monograph of 

 the species of, of N. and S. America 

 by T. Prime, 402 ; descriptions of 

 three new species of, by T. Prime 

 414. 



Sphaerodactylus, by E. D. Cope, 494. 



Squalus americanus, referring it to the 

 genus Odontaspis, by C. C. Abbott 

 399. 



Stewardson, Thos., M. D., remarks on 

 the Ailanthus silk worm, 525. 



Stimpson, W., on marine shells from 

 Hudson's Bay, and Pleistocene de- 



posit on the shore of .James' Bay, 75, 

 97 ; notes on Decapod Crustacea, 334, 

 372. 



Strephobasis, description of, by I. Lea, 

 96. 



Sarothrodus maculo-cinctus, new spe- 

 cies described by T. Gill, 99. 



Tiedeman, Prof. F., announcement of 

 the death of, 56. 



Thelyphonus, description of a new 

 species of, by H. C. Wood, Jr., 312. 



Tringese, monograph on, by Elliott 

 Coues, 170. 



Tryon, George W., Jr., on the Mollusca 

 of Harper's Ferry, 390, 396 ; synop- 

 sis of the recent species of Gastro- 

 chfenidze, a family of Acephalous 

 Mollusca, 391, 465. 



Uhler, P. R., rectification of the paper 

 upon Hemiptera of the N. Pacific 

 Exploring Expedition, 258, 286 ; 

 Homoptera of the same, 258, 282 ; 

 descriptions of fonr new species of 

 Hemiptera, 258, 284. 



Unio, descriptions of eleven new species 

 o»; by I. Lea, 391. 



Unionidje, descriptions of twenty-five 

 new species of, from Georgia, &c., 

 38 ; remarks on habits and growth 

 of, by Dr. Lewis, 57 ; descriptions of 

 twelve new species of, from Ala- 

 bama, 59. 



Uranoscopoids, synopsis of, by T. Gill, 

 108 ; monograph of the Tridigitate, 

 263. 



Warren, David M., announcement of 



death of, 58. 

 Wood, H. C, Jr., descriptions of new 

 species of Scolopendra, 2, 10 ; on the 

 American Chilopoda, with catalogue 

 of specimens in the Smithsonian 

 Institution, 311 ; description of a 

 new species of Thelyphonus, 311, 

 312. 





^^a 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 

 1861. 



January Is/, 1861. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



V 



Eighteen members present. 



Papers were presented for publication entitled, 



" Catalogue of the Marino Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North Ame- 

 rica from Greenland to Georgia, by Theodore Gill." 



" Description of a new species of the genus Anableps of Gronovius, 

 by Theodore Gill." 



" Synopsis of American Cretaceous Brachiopoda, by Wm. M. Gabb." 



Which were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Sergeant announced the death on the 25th ult. of Mr. John H. 

 Markland; also, at London, oo the 8th ult., of Dr. Charles Huffnagle, 

 late members of the Academy. 



January 8th. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled 



" On the classification of the Eventognathi, or Cyprini, a sub-order 

 of Teleocephali, by Theodore Gill." Which was referred to a Com- 

 mittee. 



An extract of a letter was read from Col. J. D. Graham, dated Chicago, 

 Dec. 17th, 1860, informing the Academy of the discovery by him of a 

 diurnal tide in Lake Michigan. 

 1861.] 1 




2 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



January \htli. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



ThirLy-ooe members present. 



Dr. Leidy stated that in a communication to the Academy, by Dr. Mordecai, 

 published in the last number of the Proceedings, the author remarks as the 

 result of his observations, that the food of the shad consists of marine algse. 

 A few weeks since Dr. L.'s liousekeeper had incidentally called his attention to 

 a shad, obtained in market, which appeared to her remarkable from the 

 stomach being filled with small fishes. Dr. L. examined the shad to assure 

 himself that it really was that fish, and submitted the stomach and contents 

 to Mr. C. C. Abbott, who informs him in a note that the contents consist of 

 nine small marine fishes, as follows : 3 Hydrargyra swampina, 5 Pcecilia lati- 

 pinnis, and 1 Cyprinodon ovinus. Mr. Abbott adds, that in his dissections of 

 the shad he had frequently detected the remains of cyprinoids in the contents 

 of the stomach. 



Mr. Slack called attention to specimens of Mosasaurus bones presented 

 this evening. The animal was remarkable for its small size, and on ac- 

 count of its position where found, viz. in the upper stratum of the marl. 



January 22 d. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirtj-iiine members present. 



Papers were presented for publication entitled 



" Notes on Ants in Texas, by S. B. Buckley." 



" Descriptions of new species of Scolopendra in the collection of the 

 Academy, by H. C. Wood, Jr." 



" Observations on Cottus Copei Abbott, by C. C. Abbott." 



" Appendix to the Monograph of the Philypni, and description of the 

 genus Lembus of Giinther, by Theodore Gill." 



And were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Lea read the following extract of a letter from Dr. Lewis, of 

 Mohawk, N. Y. 



' ' I find three species of Palud'na in the Erie Canal and Mohawk River at 

 this place. Mr. Binney, after examining them, pronounces them one species 

 — decisa Say, — regarding them merely aa varieties. My reasons for regarding 

 them as three species are as follows : The large species which I shall call 

 Integra Say, for the present (and until it is satisfactorily shown by reference to 

 Say's Integra from the original locality that it is a diflerent species,) is the 

 most ponderous shell of the three species. The Embryonic young attain the 

 largest size (before exclusion from the parent) of the three species. The next 

 species I will call decisa Say, though it is usually perfect at the apex, as well 

 as the preceding. This shell is of a thinner texture, and the color of the epider- 

 mis is a darker tint, green. The Embryonic young at exclusion are of a deli- 

 cate pale willow green. The third species I have for several reasons felt dis- 

 posed to regard as rufa Hald. This does not attain so large a size here as 

 the preceding species. The height of the shell is less, proportioned to its 

 width. The central portions of the body whorl a little prominent, almost sub- 

 angular in some instances, a little flattened towards the sutures. The epider- 

 mis olivaceous, with purpureous tinge on the centre of the whorl, fading above 

 and below. The interior pink, margined above and below and at the aperture 

 with white. Embryonic young smaller than in Integra and decisa, and of a 

 delicate pale pink color. The soft parts diflFer as do the shells. The habits of 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



the animals also differ, and the crowning evidence of this distinction in a spe- 

 cific point of view, is the absence of all intermediate forms and varieties, each 

 species preserving its integrity, under the operation of the same law that pre- 

 serves the purity of species of Unio, where from 30 to 50 species are found in 

 one stream, as is seen in some of the western rivers." 



January 29th, 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers weire 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Description of a new Species of the Genus ANABLEPS of Gronovins. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



There has recently .been sent to the Smithsonian Institution from Panama, 

 by Captain J. M. Dow, a new species of the genus Anableps. The number of 

 the species of the genus is now increased to four, all of which, with the excep- 

 tion of the one now to be described, are from the Caribbean Sea, along the 

 aortbern coast of South America. 



Preliminary to a description of the new species, we give a diagnosis of the 

 genus, in order not to be obliged to insert as specific characters those which 

 are really generic. 



Subfamily ANABLEPTIN.^ Gill. 



Genus Anableps (Artedi) Gronovius. 

 Synonymi/. 

 Anableps Artedi, Linn., in first editions of Systema Naturae. 

 Cobitis sp. Linn., in later editions of Systema Naturae. 



Anableps Gronovius Zoophylacium. 



Body elongated, anteriorly depressed, posteriorly compressed. 



Scales moderate or small, cycloid, covering almost the entire head and bodj; 

 those on the head, anterior to the nape, larger and less imbricated. The base 

 of the caudal fin and the anal appendage of the male are also covered with 

 scales. 



Head depressed, cuneiform in profile, oblong above, gradually diminishing in 

 width to the snout. 



Mouth anterior and transverse, opening downwards and forwards. Upper 

 jaw projecting beyond the lower. Intermaxillary bones with the ascending pro- 

 cess represented by simple knobs. Maxillaries entirely lateral, and excluded 

 from the composition of the mouth. Dentary flattened. 



Teeth acute, only on the intermaxillaries and dentaries ; in the former in a 

 broad band, the anterior ones larger and moveable, as in Foecilia ; the posterior 

 villiform and immoveable. Those of the lower jaw nearly horizontal and princi- 

 pally in one row on the front of the dentaries. 



Eyes situated in the anterior half of the head, oblique, and protected by the 

 elevated arches of the frontal bones. The cornea and iris are divided into two 

 more or less unequal portions by a horizontal band. 



Nostrils double ; the anterior at the anterior and inferior edge of the nasal 

 bones ; the posterior oblique fissures in front of the eyes. 



Branchiostegal membrane deeply excavated, the fissure extending to the an- 

 terior borders of the eyes. Branchiostegal rays five. 



Dorsal fin higher than long, situated far behind, between the anal and caudal. 



Anal in the females of nearly the same form as the dorsal ; in the males with 

 a large conical appendage in front. 



1861.] 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pectoral fins suboval, directed downwards and inwards, and externally con- 

 cave. 



Ventrals situated nearly midway between the pectoral and dorsal. 



Prof. .Jeffries Wyman has published interesting facts respecting the embryo- 

 logy of the Anableps Gronovii of Valenciennes (or Anableps tetrophthalmus hinn.) 

 in the fifth volume of the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, 

 page 80, and in the sixth volume of the American Journal of Science and Art. 



Mr. J. P. G. Smith has published observations on the habits of a species of 

 the genus in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society, for 1850, at page 53. 



Anableps Dowei Gill. 



The body is elongated, anteriorly depressed and flattened, and posteriorly 

 compressed as in ihe other species of the genus. The height of the trunk, at 

 the inseition of the ventral fins is nearly an eighth of the extreme length from 

 the snout to the margin of the caudal fin. The width is greatest between the pec- 

 torals and ventrals, and equals fourteen-hundredths of the length ; thence it 

 nearly uniformly diminishes towards the base of the caudal fin, which is much 

 compressed. 



The head is elongated, semiconical in profile, above straight and continuous 

 with the back. The height at the vertical of the operculum equals an eleventh 

 of the total length. The length of the head itself enters five times in the total. 

 The head above ia flat and level from the nape, and between the raised orbits 

 to the upper jaw ; its breadth at the nape slightly exceeds two-thirds of its 

 length ; that before the eyes equal three-fifihs of the same. 



The eyes exceed in their diameter one-fifth of the length of the head ; they 

 are distant from the anterior borders of the nasals, a quarter of the head's length: 

 the interorbital ?j)ace equals a seventh of the same. The interval between the 

 upper jaw and the angle of the preoperculum equals three- fourths of that 

 between the jaw and the margin of the operculum. 



The eyes are circular; the portion below the bridle of the conjunctiva is 

 as large or largpr than that above. 



The dorsal fin commences between the posterior sixth and seventh 

 tenths of the length. Its basal length is only equal to a twentieth of the total 

 length, and scarcely exceeds half its height. Its median rays are highest, the 

 margin being convex. 



The anal fin of the male has nearly the same position and structure, as that 

 of the same sex in Anableps tetrophthalmus. 



The caudal fin is somewhat obliquely truncated, the lower rays being slightly 

 longest. Its greatest length forms a sixth of the total. Its basal third is 

 covered with closely adherent scales. 



The pectoral fins do not quite equal in length a seventh of the total; they 

 are separated from each other at their bases by an interval slightly exceeding 

 half their length. 



The ventrals commence between the fourth and fifth tenth of the total length; 

 their length equals a tenth of the same. 



In structure and form, the various fins do not diS"er from those of the allied 

 species. 



1 

 The number of rays is as follows : D. 8—. C. 5, 16, 3. R. 21. V. 6. 



1 



From the axilla of the pectoral fin to the base of the caudal, there are about 

 sixty-eight rows of scales, forty-nine of which are in advance of the dorsal. 

 Each scale is more or less subcircular, often higher than long, with concentric 

 striae, surrounding a nucleus placed considerably anterior to the centre, and 

 posteriorly crossed by about fourteen radiating striae. 



The color is a dark black brown on the head, back and sides. A broad, 

 longitudinal, golden-colored band traverses the sides and terminates at the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



caudal fio; the band is itself bordered with blackish below, which is much 

 more distinct behind the ventrals. The sides of the head as well as the infe- 

 rior surface of the b^dy are also of a deep yellow color, the line bounding: the 

 yellow of the head passing under the eyes, and is continuous at the axilla of 

 the pectorals with the lateral band. The dorsal, caudal and most of the pec- 

 torals, are of a lighter color than the back ; the interior rays of the latter are 

 yellowish. 



A single specimen of this new species of Analleps was obtained by Captain 

 J. M. Dow. 



It is interesting as being the first representative of the genus that has been 

 discovered on the Pacific coast. We dedicate the species to its discoverer, who 

 has added much to our knowledge of the Fauna of the western coast of Central 

 America, and who has forwarded to the Smithsonian Institution many new 

 species of Fishes, Crustaceans, and other animals, among which is the type of 

 the singular new Porturanoid genus Euphylax of Stimpson. 



The following synopsis of the species of the genus will exhibit the compara- 

 tive differences between them. 



*. Squamae in serie longitudinali cerciter 70. Color superne olivaceo-fuscas ; 

 fascia lateral! et corpore inferne flavis. 



Anableps Dowei Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Anableps Dowei Gill., Proceedings Acad. Nat. Sciences, supra I860. 



a. Squamae in serie longitudinale 50 — 55; color superne clivaceo-virescenB ; la- 

 teribus lineis longitudinalibus tribus vel qualuor ornatis. 



Anableps tetrophthalmus Bloch. 

 Synonymy. 

 Anableps lineis qaatuor longitudinalibus ad utrumque latus ; processu tubalato 

 ad pinuam aniArtedi in Seba's Thesaurus rerum naturalium, vol. i;i. 

 pi. xxxiv fig. 7, 1758. 

 " Artedi, Genera Piscium, p. 25, genus xx. 

 " • " Species Piscium, p. 46. 



Anableps Gronovius, Zoophylacium, p. 117, No. 350, pi. i. figs. 1, 2, 3. 



'< Gronovius Museum Ichthyologicum, vol. i. p. 12, No. 32. 

 Cobitis anableps, Linnceiis, Systema Naturae ed. x. 



" Linnceus, Systema Naturae, ed. xii., gen. 173, No. 1. 



Anableps tetrophthalmus Bloch. Naturgeschichte der ausliindischen Fische. 

 " " Bloch. Systema Ichthyologiae, Schneid. ed., 



" " Lacepede, Hist. Nat, des Poissons, vol. v. 1803. 



" " (7m2j. c< FaZcnaV?mes, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. XT iii. 



p. 252. 



The preceding is only a portion of the synonymy of the species. On account 

 of the remarkable structure of its eyes, it has been referred to in numeroas 

 works on Natural History and Anatomy. Such allusions have not been 

 deemed of sufficient importance to refer to. 



y. Squamae in serie longitudinali cerciter Bo-IjO ordinatae. Color superne oli- 

 vaceo-virescens, inferne albescens. 



Anableps microlepis Miill. 



Synonymy, 



Anableps microlepis Mii'ler and Troschel, Monatsberichte der Acad. 1844, p. 36. 



1861.] 




6 PROCEEBINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Aaableps microlepis Troschel, Archir. fur Naturgeschichte for 1845, vol. ii. p. 



200 (abstract.) 

 Aaableps coarctatus Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xviii. -p. 266, pi. 540, 



1846. • 



Aaableps microlepis Mull, and Troschel in Schomburgh's Reisea in British 



Guiana, vol. iii. p. 632. 

 Corpus magnitudine fere ut in Anableps tetrophthalmus. 



Anableps elongatps Val. 



Synonymy. 



Anableps elongatus Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xviii. p. 267, pi. 541, 



1846. 

 Corpus gracilius. 



Ou the classification of the EVENTOGNATHI or CYPEINI, a suborder of 



TELEOCEPHALI. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In studying the species of Cyprinoids obtained by Captain J. H. Simpson in 

 his expedition across the continent in 1858-1859, we were led to investigate 

 the principles of classification adopted for the arrangement of the family of 

 Cyprinoids, as it has been restricted by most recent naturalists. Our studies 

 have led us to the belief that the Cyprinoids do not form a natural family, 

 but rather a suborder, and that the suborder itself may be divided into a numr 

 ber of natural families. 



Suborder Eventognathi Gill. 



This suborder embraces the numerous species known to the inhabitants of 

 the United States as "Shiners," "Dace," "Roach," "Carp," "Suckers," &c., 

 and is represented by species in the fresh water streams and lakes of almost 

 every portion of the globe, with the exception of the continent of South America; 

 they are there replaced by the herbivorous Characins. 



Notwithstanding the cosmopolitan distribution of the suborder, there are 

 few or no groups of fishes, whose mutual affinities are more unknown, and 

 whose nomenclature and generic distinctions are so uncertain. Genera that 

 are certainly very nearly allied, and even identical with each other, have been 

 placed at almost opposite extremes of the family. Very closely allied species 

 even have been equally far removed from each other, yet there are few groups 

 which have been so much studied by naturalists as this has been. 



The species of Asia have been especially studied by McCleUand, Heckel, and 

 by Dr. Bleeker ; those of Europe, by Cuvier, Agassiz, Heckel, Kner, and the 

 Prince of Canino. The American species have been arranged and described by 

 Agassiz, Baird and Girard. All the known species found in every part of the 

 world have been described by Valenciennes, and Bleeker has very recently 

 published a synopsis of the entire suborder, in which all the known genera are 

 described, and arranged in a new systematic order. With the full knowledge of 

 all that has been done by those great zoologists, we have still no hesitation in 

 asserting that much yet remains to be done, and that none of the proposed 

 classifications or groupings of the genera and species are founded in nature. 



The suborder, as understood by us, includes only the true Cyprinoids of 

 Agassiz, without teeth in the jaws, and with large falciform lower pharyngeal 

 bones. It thus excludes the Cijprinodontoids, and all allied groups. Thus re- 

 stricted, it is an exceedingly natural group, and corresponds to the family of 

 Cyprinoids of most naturalists. But in the suborder, there exist several groups 

 which differ essentially in form or anatomical peculiarities, and which appear 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 7 



to be entitled to family rank. The chief and tjrpical family is much the most 

 extensive and widely distributed. The others are small and much more re- 

 stricted in geographical distribution. 



The following synopsis will exhibit the most obvious characteristics of the 

 different families, and their geographical distribution. We do not pretend 

 to group the various genera into subfamilies or tribes, where so many have 

 failed ; it would be presumptuous for us, with the material at hand, to offer 

 such an arrangement. 



Family I. HOMALOPTEROID^ Gill. 



Synonymy. 



Homalopterseformes Bleeker, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, 



vol. XX. p. 422 (subfamily.) 

 Balitora Cuv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissous, vol. xviii. p. 91, (genus.) 



The body and head are depressed, and the inferior surface plane. The 

 mouth is inferior and of small size. The pectoral and ventral fins are in the 

 same plane, horizontal and subdisciform. The pectoral fins have numerous 

 and branched rays. There are no spines before any of the fins. The pharyngeal 

 bones have a single row of conical teeth. 



This family exactly corresponds to the subfamily of Homalopterse formes of 

 Dr. Bleeker, and the characters above given are nearly translated from his. 

 The species are peculiar t© the streams of India. 



Family II. COBITOID^ Fitzinger. 



Cobitidse Fitzinger. 



Acanthopsides Meckel anclKner, Die Siisswasserfische des Ostreichischen monar- 



chie, p. 296. 

 Cobitiformes Bleeker, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, vol. 

 XX. p. 421. 



The body and head are never depressed, but either subcylindrical or slightly 

 compressed. The scales are very small, and almost concealed in the smooth 

 mucous skin. The mouth is subterminal, the snout being little protuberant. 

 The lips are thick, and provided with from six to twelve barbels. The pecto- 

 ral fins have a broad, vertical base, and are inserted in the usual manner on 

 the sides above the breast. The pectoral fins have each a simple spine ; the 

 others are without. The pharyngeal bones have a single row of teeth. The 

 branchial apertures are small and restricted to the sides. 



This family is confined to the fresh-water streams and lakes of Europe and 

 Asia, both temperate and tropical, and the islands of the Sunda MoUuccan Ar- 

 chipelago. No species are found in either of the Americas. Are they not re- 

 placed in the latter continents by the fresh water Siluroids and Trichomycte- 

 roids ? 



The family may be divided in two different subfamilies, distinguished by the 

 position of the dorsal fin. In the typical Cohitincp, that fin is placed immedi- 

 ately over the ventral fins. In the other group, which may be called Acanthoph- 

 thalmince, the dorsal is situated over the space between the ventral and ana! 

 fins. Of the former four genera are known, and of the latter two. 



Family III. CYPRINOID^ (Cuv.) Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Cyprinidae partim Agassiz, auct. 



Cypriniformes Bleeker, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlaudsh Indie, vol. 

 XX. p. 422 (subfamily.) 



1861.] 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The body is oblong or moderately elongated, compressed or subcylindrical, 

 and covered with conspicuous scales of various size.* 



The barbels vary in number from two to four, and in numerous genera are 

 even entirely absent. The pectoral fins have broad vertical bases inserted in 

 the usual manner on the sides above the breast ; they have each a simple ray. 

 The dorsal and anal fins are either with or without spines, which themselves 

 are either simple or dentated. The pharyngeal bones have one constant row 

 of normally five teeth, or occasionally four, and often one or two supplemen- 

 tary rows of from one to three smaller teeth. The branchial apertures are of 

 moderate size, and separated from each other by an isthmus of little or mod- 

 erate width. 



The Cyprinoids, as limited above, form a very natural and homogeneous 

 group ; its genera have not yet been satisfactorily divided among subfamilies, 

 nor have even the genera been naturally approximated to each other. The 

 distribution of the species is almost world-wide. South America being the OJ^y 

 continent in which they are not found. 



Family IV. CATASTOMOID^ Gill. 



Sijno7iymi/. 

 Catastominje Heckel. 

 Catastomini Bleeker, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch. Indie, vol. 



XX. p. 427 (stirps.) 

 Catastomus Lesueur, Journal of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 vol. i. (genus.) 



The body is moderately elongated and subcylindrical, or oblong and com- 

 pressed, covered by conspicuous scales. The mouth is always concealed from 

 above by the protuberant snout, and surrounded by fleshy lips. There are no 

 barbels. The pectoral fins have their vertical bases inserted in the usual man- 

 ner on the sides above the breast. The pharyngeal bones have numerous 

 teeth closely approximated, like those of a comb, in a single row, and com- 

 pressed at right angles to the bone. The branchial apertures are moderate, 

 and separated by the isthmus. 



The Catostomi have some external and anatomical characters peculiar to 

 themselves and distinguishing them from the other families of this suborder. 

 They are, therefore, now regarded as forming a distinct family. They appear 

 to be peculiar to North America. A species of Cyprinoid from Siberia has been 

 described by Tilesius, which has been generally referred to the genus Catostomtis, 

 but it is too little known to positively refer it to any known genus. As, how- 

 ever, there are arctic species of the family, the Tilesian species may quite pos- 

 sibly be a true member of the group. 



The family of Catastomoids may be divided into three subfamilies, chiefly 

 characterized by the form of the body and the comj^arative form and length of 

 the dorsal and anal fins. 



The Catastominse have an oblong or moderately elongated and anteriorly 

 subcylindrical body ; the dorsal fin subcentral and nearer the snout than the 

 margin of the caudal fin ; it is short and subquadrate, with from eleven (3,8) 

 to sixteen (3,13) rays. The ventral fins are under the anterior, median or pos- 

 terior parts of that fin. The anal fin high and short, placed nearer the base of 

 the caudal than of the ventral fins. 



The Cycleptinie are characterized by the elongated body, which is subcylin- 

 drical before, and by an elongated and falciform dorsal fin commencing over 

 the interval between the pectoral and ventral fins, and extending as far back 

 as the beginning of the anal fin. 



* The genera Aulopyge of Heckel, Phoxinellus of Heckel and Meda of Girard are desti- 

 tute of scales. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



The third subfamily is composed of species having an oblong-oval and com- 

 pressed body. The dorsal fin is elongated, commencing over or before the ventral 

 fins and proceeding backwards at least as far as the commencement of the anal 

 fin ; the anterior rays are usually much longer than the others. To this group 

 the name of Bubal ichthyince maybe given. Carpiodes is the typical genus, but 

 it would scarcely be proper to modify that name by the termination indicating 

 a subfamily ; we have therefore accepted the above modification of the name 

 Buhalichthjs of Agassiz proposed for a genus of this subfamily. 



Note on Ants in Texas. 



BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



The cities of the Cutting Ant (Myrmica Texana) are sometimes much larger 

 than those described by me in an article published in the Journal of the Aca- 

 demy. During the summer, I have measured some which extended beneath a 

 surface having an average diameter of seventy feet; and in one instance, their 

 town was spread beneath an area of about one hundred feet. Their cellars, 

 from six inches to two and three feet in diameter, are beneath this surface to 

 the depth of from twelve to eighteen feet. The dirt brought up is in the form 

 of a crater, to the edge of which they carry the ground excavated, where it is 

 dropped, and rolls down the sides of the volcano-like hill, which is seldom 

 more than eighteen inches high. The storms level the hills, and new ones 

 are formed on them, until the dirt excavated is sometimes three feet deep. A 

 new city, or when more rooms are made in an old one, has at the surface the 

 appearance of a model volcanic region with isolated craters and mountain 

 ranges. In an old established town the surface of the ground around the main 

 entrances is nearly level, in order that stores for home use may be easily brought 

 in along their roads, extending into the country in all directions. Besides these 

 paths there are underground avenues — as was mentioned in a former paper — 

 whose outer doorways are several hundred feet distant from town, through 

 which most of the grain and leaves used by them is carried. The digging of 

 these tunnels is begun near the lower cellars, from whence they are extended 

 to the outer entrances, around which excavated dirt is seldom if ever found. 

 That they store up food is very probable, nor can there be much doubt of it, 

 since it is well known that they often abstain from work during several days 

 in succession in the winter time. It is also well known, in the region infested 

 by them, that they carry large quantities of grain and leaves into their abodes. 

 I have often seen the margins of their paths covered with segments of green 

 leaves, where they are left to dry, after which they are taken below. The 

 green fruit of the elm is treated in a similar manner. It is true that leaves and 

 fruits are carried into town in a greea state, but they surely would not dry a 

 portion unless they wished to preserve it for future use. They do most of their 

 work in the night time, especially in the summer season, when they do not 

 labor during the heat of the day. On one occasion our tent was inadvertently 

 erected near one of their towns, and as we were about to spread our blankets 

 for sleep, we found the ground almost covered with ants. We were driven to 

 platforms for slumber. In the meantime the ants were actively engaged in 

 carrying home fragments of biscuit and other things which had been dropped 

 from our table ; other parties of them packed the grains of corn strewed on the 

 ground near the feed box of our mules and horses. I had been told that " cut- 

 ting ants" could carry the largest grains of corn, but did not believe it; but 

 at that time I saw some big grains move slowly along the ant path, and on close 

 scrutiny could see that said grains were carried on the backs of the little 

 ants. We were encamped near Judge Eastland's, in Bastrop County, and the 

 next morning the Judge brought over some bits of lead immersed in molasses, 

 to test the strength of the ants. The pieces of lead were three and four times 



1861.] 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



larger than the ants, yet the ants being fond of sweet would struggle, until they 

 succeeded in getting the sweetened metal on their baclis, when they marched 

 homeward. They are not fond of salt, and would not eat bacon or beans which 

 had been cooked with it. 



Among these ants are some big-headed giants who apparently are rulers and 

 superintendents. I have frequently seen them more among the crowd here 

 and there, as if to see that all were on duty. Not working themselves, they 

 urge others to the task. It is said they punish delinquents by biting and shak- 

 ing them, but I have not seen any such penalty inflicted. It may be that these 

 large ants are the elders whose age exempts them from labor, and entitles them 

 to the respect and submission of the younger of this community. 



A gentleman in Bastrop County told me that to preserve his shelled grain and 

 meal from the " cutting ants " it was suspended in sacks by tarred ropes ; fresh 

 tar being occasionally added. It is difiScultfor them to shell corn ; hence corn 

 in the ear is rarely disturbed by the " cutting ants." I have not met with these 

 ants north of latitude thirty one degrees, but how far east or west they extend I 

 cannot tell. They are more numerous in the vicinity of rivers and water, but 

 I have never seen their abodes in a bottom subject to overflow. 



When I was in Lampasas County last October, at Swenson's Saline, on a hill- 

 side, I overturned a large rock, which left exposed a number of the cellars of 

 the stinging ant, (Myrmica malefaciens.) In some of these cellars were large 

 quantities of the seeds of the amaranthus and other plants, nicely stored for 

 future use. A gentleman in Saa Saba County informed me that, after a heavy 

 rain, the "stinging ants," at one of their dens near his wheat field, brought up 

 at least half a bushel of wheat and spread it around their outer door to dry, 

 after which it was again conveyed below. 



In this climate, where during the winter cold and warm weather alternately 

 prevail, many species of ants do not become torpid; but in their deep cellars 

 where the cold does not come, they lay up food for use in times of northers, 

 and when the warm weather comes their labors are renewed. It is seldom that 

 they are hindered by cold from work more than a week at any one time. 



Descriptions of new Species of Scolopendra, in the collection of the Academy. 



BY HORATIO C. WOOD, JR. 



S. b y ss i n a, nobis. 



S. saturate viridis, capite castaneo ; antennis ? 18 articulatis ; dente mandi- 

 bular! gracile. dentibus labialibus 10, parvis, nigris ; superficie ventrali brunneo- 

 olivacea; pedibus gracilibus, antennisque luteolis, postremis articulo basali 

 intus 3, subtus 2 spinis, processu angulari bifido vel trifido ; appendicibus anali- 

 bus lateralibus punctatis, singula spinis apicalibus 3. Long. unc. 3. 



Hub. Florida? 



S. p arv a, nobis. 



S. viridi-brunnea, segmentis plerumque saturate viride marginatis ; antennis 

 viridibus, 25 articulatis ; dentibus 8, nigris, obtusis ; pedibus postremis robustis, 

 articulo basali margine baud elevato, intus 5 spinulis, subtus 12-15 spinulis, 

 processu angulari magno, quadrifido ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus punc- 

 tatis, singula spinis apicalibus 4-5 et altero marginale armata. Long. unc. 3. 



The first segment of the body is the smallest, the third next. The sutures be- 

 tween sternum and episiernum well marked, those between scuta and episcuta 

 barely traceable. The preterminal scuta is verj'- large, its lateral margins in 

 all our specimens are regularly arched. The terminal scuta has a strongly de- 

 pressed central groove, marking, we suppose, the line of embryonic coalescence 

 of the tw^o primitive scuta. 



JIab. Mountains of Georgia. Dr. LeConte. 



[[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 11 



t). c as t a ne ic e ps , nobis. 



S. viridis, capite antennisque castaneis ; sejjmentis margine posteriore caeruleo 

 tiacto ; antennis 25 articulatis ; dente mandibulari producto, gracile; dentibua 

 labialibus 10, intimis tribus utrinque coadunatis ; pedibus plerumque luteolis ; 

 postremis saturate viridibus, articulo basali intus quinquespinoso, subtus spinis 

 9 serie triplici dispositis ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus brunneis, elongatis, 

 singula spinis apicalibus 5 ; superficie ventrali sordide viride. Long. unc. 3'75. 



Prebasilar fold connate with basilar segment; the suture, however, well 

 marked, existing as a deep groove. First pair of legs tinged with chestnut. 

 Preanal scale quadrate, much narrowed posteriorly, impressed with a longitu- 

 dinal sulcus. 



Hab. Texas. Dr. Rand. 



S. poiymorpha, nobis. 



S. olivaceo-brunnea, capite dilute castaneo; antennis 30 articulatis, pedi- 

 busque luteolis ; dente mandibulari tuberculo basali magno ; dentibus labiali- 

 bus 8, maximis, intimis duobus utrinque coadunatis, externis sejunctis ; segmen- 

 tis margine posteriore nigro-viride, marginis lateralibus plerumque liberis ; 

 pedibus postremis robustis, articulo basali intus 7-10 spinis, subtus 8-12 spinis 

 armato, processu angulari aut bifido aut trifido aut quadrifido ; appendicibus 

 analibus lateralibus, singula 4-5 spinis apicalibus. Long. unc. 3. 



Prebasilar fold apparent, but connate with the rather large basilar segment. 

 First segment of body very small, suture between scutum and episcutum barely 

 traceable, that between sternum and episternum much more distinct. Basal joint 

 of last pair of legs, above flattened and apparently grooved, below very convex ; 

 the internal surface having near to its proximal end a group of from five to seven 

 spines, and several scattered ones on its distal portion ; lower surface with from 

 eight to ten spines disposed 1 in rows. This may be considered the typical ar- 

 rangement, but we have very numerous departures from it; in some individuals 

 the spines are irregularly scatttered over the whole interior and inferior surfaces. 

 The color also varies greatly, shading off from that given above, to a testaceous- 

 chestnut, the posterior green bands entirely vanishing. Even the characters drawn 

 from the labial teeth are not constant in this perplexing species, these organs in 

 some individuals being small and coadnate. One of our testaceous specimens 

 has attained to the length of three and one-half inches. 

 Hab. Fort Riley, Kansas. Presented by Dr. Hammond. 



>S. prasinipes, nobis. 



S. obscure nigro-viridis, segmento cephalico cordato, basali magno ; capite 

 subtus rufo; pedibus, postremis exceptis, antennisque laeteprasinis ; mandibulis 

 rufis, dente magno ; dentibus labialibus 6, intimis duobus utrinque latis, coadu- 

 natis, externo acuto, sejuncto; pedibus postremis, singula articulo basali rufo, 

 multispinoso, processu angulari 4-5 spinis armato ; appendicibus analibus later- 

 alibus elongatis, singula 4-5 spinis. Long. unc. 10'25. 



Dental plates small, quadrate, punctate. Suture between scuta and episcuta 

 well marked. Distal extremity of the femoral joints of all the anterior legs 

 with from three to four spines, of the metatarsae with one. First joint of pos- 

 terior pair of legs the longest, somewhat flattened above. Preanal scale quad- 

 rate, much narrowed posteriorly. 



Hab. Island of Trinidad. 



S. epileptica, nobis. 



S. rufo-castanea,robusta, capite segmento basali maximo; dente mandibulari 

 magno ; dentibus labialibus 8, internis tribus utrinque valde coaduuatis ; an- 

 tennis 17 articulatis, elongatis ; scuta terminali media subcarinata; superficie 

 ventrali laete castanea; pedibus plerumque luteolis; postremis magnis, articulo 

 basali spinis validis 20-25, processu angulari magno, multifido, articulo 

 tibiali spinis 1-3 ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus minute punctatis, singula 

 spinis apicalibus 5-7 ; squama preanali elongata. Long. unc. 9. 



1861.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP 



Prebasilar fold connate with basilar segment, the suture however well marked, 

 existing as a deep groove. First segment of the body very much the smallest. 

 Antennae generally yellowish, in some specimens chestnut. Scuta generally 

 much widened posteriorly, their lateral margins arcuate and furnished with an 

 elevated crest. Posterior margin of terminal scuta very strongly arcuate, the 

 lateral borders, however, almost straight. Suture between scuta and episcuta 

 traceable in most of the segments. Distal extremities — of femora of all the an- 

 terior legs armed, each, with a tubercle bearing from two to four small spines — 

 of tibiae with a single minute spine — of metatarsae, with a longer but very slen- 

 der one; claw large, furnished with two spines at its base. Femoral joints of 

 last pair of legs longer than tibial, somewhat flattened above, each armed — on 

 superior surface with six spines, forming two triangles — on internal margin and 

 surface with from ten fo twelve, — on inferior surface with from four to six. 



Hah. Unknown. 



S. limicolor, nobis. 



S. dilute castanea, antennis 18 articulatis; dente mandibulari amplo, gracile ; 

 dentibus labialibus 10, intimis utrinque quatuor valde coadunatis, extimo 

 sejuncto, acuto ; pedibus postremis gracilibus, basali articulo utrinque bispinoso, 

 processu angulari bifido ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus punctatis, spina 

 terminali simplice. Long. unc. 4-5. 



Prebasilar fold absent : basilar segment large. Color of belly and feet very 

 similar to that of the back, perhaps a little lighter. Preanal scale much nar- 

 rowed posteriorly, short. Sutures between scuta and episcuta, and between 

 sternum and episternum, well marked. 



Hah. Bengal. 



S. gracilipes, nobis. 



S. brunnea, segmento cephalico parvo, prebasali nullo, basali maximo ; an- 

 tennis 20 articulatis; dente mandibulari et tuberculo basali magnis, dentibus 

 labialibus 8, parvis, multo coadunatis ; pedibus postremis gracilibus, articulo 

 basali 7 spinulis in serie duplici dispositis ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus 

 elongatis, punctatis, singula 3 spinulis armata ; squama preanali postice emar- 

 ginata. Long. unc. 3. 



Color brown, with a lighter narrow stripe along centre of dorsum. Posterior 

 margin of sternal plates rounded. Terminal angular process of last pair of legs 

 scarcely developed. Our specimen is probably a young animal. 



Hah. Singapore. Presented by Sandwith Drinker. 



S. d in odon , nobis. 



S. saturate brunnea, segmento cephalico magno, prebasali nullo, basali magpo ; 

 antennis 18 articulatis, pubescentibus ; dente mandibulari maximo, dentibus la- 

 bialibus 12, parvis, nigris ; pedibus postremis, singula ariiculo basali intus spinis 

 magnis 3-4, subtus 2, armato ; processu angulari elongato, obscure trifido ; ap- 

 pendicibus analibus lateralibus punctatis, spinis apicalibus utrinque 3, parvis. 

 Long. unc. 5. 



Last pair of legs, as well as mandibles, inclining to rufous; femoral joint a 

 little longer than tibial, flattened above ; terminal angular process terminating 

 in a large spine with two very small ones at the base. Sterna marked on pos- 

 terior border with three light colored dots, the middle one being generally 

 much the most conspicuous. Preanal scale somewhat elongate, impressed 

 with an obsolescent longitudinal sulcus. 



Hah. Singapore. Presented by Sandwith Drinker. 



S. cephalica, nobis. 



S. dilute castanea, robusta, capite amplissimo; dente mandibulari magno, 

 dentibus labialibus 10, nigris, tuberculis similibus, vix coadunatis; antennis 19 

 articulatis; segmentis alternis minoribus ; pedum postremum basali articulo 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



utriaque bispinoso, processu angulari simplice ; appendicibus analibus laterali- 

 bus punctatig, spirit apicali interdum bifidd. Long. unc. 4-5. 



The first segment of each pair is the smaller, until we reach the fourth 

 couple, where the order is reversed and so continues to the end. The scuta of 

 the preterminal segment is remarkable for its size and has its posterior angles 

 rounded. The suture between the scuta and episcuta is obsolete, that between 

 the sternal and episternal plates very distinct. 



Uab. West Coast of Africa. Presented by John Cassin. 



? Var. gracilis. 



S. rephalicffi similima, adhuc multo gracilior ; cephalico segmento et dente 

 mandibulari multo minoribus ; segmentis alternis minus inequalibus; dentibus 

 labialibus acutioribus. Long. unc. 5-75. 



Having but a single individual of each of these forms we prefer to retain this 

 as a variety, although it will perhaps be found to be a distinct species. The 

 two specimens are very different in their general appearance, but agree re- 

 markably in their minute characteristics. 



Hab. With the last. Presented by John Cassin. 



S. parvidens, nobis. 



S. olivaceo-viridis ; segmento cephalico, antennis pedibusque luteolis ; segmen- 

 to prebasali nullo, basali magno ; dentibus 10, parvis; pedum postremum arti- 

 culo basali spinis 4-6 armato, processu angulari elongato, bifido vel trifido ; ap- 

 pendicibus analibus lateralibus luteolis, punctatis, singula spinis apicalibus 

 2. Long. unc. 4. 



Head darker than antennae, feet, &c., mandibular tooth rather large. Ven- 

 tral surface drab. Sutures between sternal and episternal plates distinct. 

 Posterior margin of terminal scuta strongly arcuate. Femora of last pair of 

 legs longer than tibiae, superior surface flattened and in one of our specimens 

 slightly grooved. Preanal scale, quadrate, slightly narrowed posteriorly, pos- 

 terior margin rounded. 



Hab. Ningpoo, China. Dr. D. B. B. McCartee. 



S. torquata, nobis. 



S. dilute ochracea, capite segmentisque postremis rufis ; segmento prebasali 

 nullo, basali raaximo; antennis 17 articulatis, laete luteis ; dente mandibulari 

 magno, dentibus labialibus 6, obtusis ; segmentis postice dilute viride margi- 

 natis ; superficie ventrali pedibusque anterioribus luteis ; pedibns postremis 

 gracilibus, castaneis, articulo femorali elongato, 30-40 spinulis nigris armato, 

 processu angulari multifido. Long. unc. 4. 



First segment of body much the smallest; color of back approaches some- 

 what to a faded chestnut, the posterior segments losing the green margin, but 

 obtaining a much redder hue. Distal extremity of last pair of legs, 

 tinged with olive green. Lateral anal appendages sub-quadrate, their posterior 

 margin rather sharp and provided with a minute black spine, their termi- 

 nal process provided with 7 similar ones. Suture between scuta and 

 episcuta better marked than that between sternum and episternum. Our 

 specimen is perhaps not an adult. 



Hab. Sombrero Island. 



S. p ella, nobis. 



S. oUvaceo-brunnea, capite castaneo, segmento prebasali nullo, segmento 

 basali maximo; antennis 20 articulatis ; dente mandibulari magno; dentibus 

 labialibus 10, nigris, tribus internis utrinque valde coadunatis ; pedum postre- 

 morum articulo basali et secundo marginibus elevatid ; illo, margine interiore 

 4-5 spinis, superficie inferiore 8-9 spinis serie triplici dispositis, processu an- 

 gulari trifido vel quadrifido ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus punctatis, sin- 

 gula, 4-5 spinis apicalibus. Long. unc. 3. 



Dental lamina somewhat elongate. Basilar tubercle of mandibular tooth 



1861.] 




14 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



often composed of an aggregation of minute tubercles. Basal joint of last pair 

 of legs a little longer than tibial, the superior surface flattened, inferior convex, 

 raised margin not so prominent as that of the tibia. Breadth of preanal scale 

 rather great proportionably to its length. 

 Ilab. Surinam. Dr. Calhoun. 



S. punctiscuta, nobis. 



S. olivacea, capite rufo-castaneo, segmentorum corporalium margine pos- 

 teriore et pleurumque anteriore viridis ; superficie ventrali castanea ; antennis 

 17 articulatis ; dentibus 8, parvis, nigris, intimis tribus utrinque valde coadu- 

 natis; pedibus antennisque flavescentibus ; pedis postremis articulo basali 

 supra bispinoso, intus sexspinoso, subtus septemspinosa, processu angulari 

 trifida ; tibiali articulo 5 spinis ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus punctatis, 

 elongal'is, singula 3-4 spinis apicalibus et altero marginale armatis. Long. 

 line. 4'V5. 



Cephalic as well as large basilar segment punctate, impressed with sutures, 

 between some of the plates, which are separate during embryonic life. Suture 

 between scuta and episcuta, and in one or two instances between the two true 

 scuta well marked. Scuta punctate and finely chased on posterior border. 

 Distal extremities of metatarsffi of all anterior legs provided with a slender 

 spine ; claw armed with a small one near its base. Preanal scale quadrate, nar- 

 rowed posteriorly. 



Eab. Caraccas. W. G. Boulton, Esq. 



S. puncticeps, nobis. 



S. brunneo olivacea; segmento basali maximo ; antennis 17 articulatis: 

 dente mandibulari magno, robusto; dentibus labialibus 6, validibus, intimis 

 duobus utrinque coadunatis, extimo sejuncto ; iaminis dentalibus excavatis ; 

 pedibus postremis elongatis, articulo femorali spinis 15-20, processu angulari 

 trifido, articulo tibiali spinulis 3-5 : appendicibus analibus lateralibus saturate 

 brunneis, singula spinis apicalibus 2-3 et interdum altero marginale. Long. 

 •unc. 4 5. 



Cephalic segment punctate :-prebasilar fold connate with basilar segment, the 

 line of junction, however, indicated by a deep furrow in the latter. First seg- 

 ment the smallest, the third next. Suture between the scuta and episcuta, 

 well marked in middle segments of the body. Distal extremities of the femoral 

 joints of the nineteenth and twentieth pairs of legs provided with from two to 

 four small spines. 



Hab. Unknown. 



S. a t r a , nobis. 



S. brunneo-atra, segmento cephalico magno, prebasali nullo, basali maximo ; 

 dente mandibulari maximo ; dentibus labialibus 12, conicis, vix coadunatis; 

 pedibus postremis gracilibus, articulo femorali spinis 4-5armato; appendicibus 

 analibus lateralibus elongatis, singula spinis apicalibus 2. Long. unc. 4-75. 



Color of whole animal brownish black with an almost metallic reflection on 

 the back and a reddish tinge about the head. The scutal plate of preterminal 

 segment is very large, equalling any other in size. Preanal scale impressed 

 with a longitudinal sulcus, its posterior border greatly rounded. 



Hab. Unknown. 



S. plumbeolatus, nobis. 



S. olivaceo-brunnea, segmento cephalico obscure castaneo, prebasali nullo, 

 basali magno ; dente mandibulari magno, gracile ; dentibus labialibus 10, par- 

 vis, nigris ; antennis 18 articulatis, sordide luteolis ; lateribus plumbeis; pedi- 

 bus postremis gracilibus, articulo femorali 5 spinis, processu angulari interdum 

 bifido ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus punctatis, spinis apicalibus utrinque 

 duobus. Long. udc. 4. 



First, third and fifth segments the smallest. Posterior margin of some of 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA, 15 



the scuta tinged with green. Suture between sternum and episternum well 

 marked. Legs of anterior portion of body, a dirty light yellow, gradually 

 darkening as they approach the anus. 



Hab. St. Jago, Cape Verde Islands. Dr. J. M. Somerville. 



S. testacea, nobis. 



S. testacea, segmento cephalico parvo, prebasali nullo, basali maximo • 

 dentibus 6, intimis duobus utrinque latis coadunatis, externo sejuncto triangu- 

 lar! ; antennis 17 articulatis ; pedibus postremis robustis, basali articulo multi- 

 spinoso ; appendicibus analibus lateralibus, punctatis, rufis, singula 4-6 spinis 

 apicalibus et altero marginale. Long. unc. 5. 



First segment of body much the smallest. Femoral joint of posterior pair 

 of legs flattened above; inner surface and margin with from fifteen to twenty 

 small black spines ; inferior surface with from ten to fifteen ; terminal angular 

 process with from six to eight. 



Hab, Unknown, 



S. p o r phyr a t alni a , nobis. 



S. testacea, capite antennisque rnfis ; segmentis, (postremo excepto,) antice 

 et postice nigro-purpurea late marginata ; pedibus luteolis ; dente mandibular! 

 magno, dentibus labialibus 10, nigris ; antennis 20 articulatis ; pedibus pos- 

 tremis robustis, basali articulo margiue exteriore vix elevato, margine interiore 

 spinulis 5, processu angulari elongato, trifido vel quadrifido, superticie inferiore 

 spinulis 9 triplici serie dispositis ; appendicibus analibus lataralibus alte punc- 

 tatis, singula spinis apicalibus 4-5 et altero marginale armatis. Long. unc. 4-75. 



The last dorsal plate has its lateral margins elevated and its posterior tino-ed 

 with purple. The posterior border of the large basilar segment of the head 

 has also a narrow band of purple. The broad bands which ornament the seo-- 

 meuts of the body extend down somewhat upon the sides; in the day time they 

 have in some lights a slight greenish reflection. This species is allied to S. 

 tiffrina "Newp. ; but, besides the peculiar coloration, it differs in the foilowino- 

 particulars: In the number both of joints of antenna and of labial teeth in 

 the scarcely elevated margin of femoral joint of last pair of legs, in greater 

 length of tills joint compared with tibial, in two of the series of spines on in 

 ferior surface of the joint being parallel, in the robustness of posterior pair of 

 legs, in greater number of apical spines to lateral anal appendages and other 

 particulars. The antennae appear to have been tipped with white. 



Bah. India. 



Observations on Cottus Copei, Abbott. 

 BY CHAS. C. ABBOTT. 



Having received a living specimen of the above named species, I deem it 

 necessary to make a re-diagnosis of the species, as the original specimen hav- 

 ing been an alcoholic one, and somewhat distorted, led to several errors 

 which it is important to- correct. ' 



This species is closely allied to Cottus viscosus, Maid, and C. Prank- 

 linii, Agass., but differs essentially from the former i« the facial outline 

 from the eye, making a much less abrupt curve ; thus giving the snout greater at- 

 tenuation. In the mouth being more deeply cleft, and much more obliquely. In 

 the body being strictly cylindrical, and not subcylindrical. It differs from C. 

 Franliiinii, in the tips of the pectorals overreaching the anterior margin of 

 the second dorsal. In the anterior margin of the first dorsal being farther distant 

 from the extremity of the snout. In the body, as it differsfrom viscosus. The 

 proper diagnosis will then be 



Cottus Copei, Abb. — Corpore cylindrico. Extremitatibus pinnarum pec- 

 toralium porrectis ad anteriorem dorsalis secundae marginem. Pinnis ventrali- 

 bus sub pectorales et ante dorsalem anteriorem, insertis. 

 1861.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Appendiz to the " Monograph of the PHILYPNI," and description of the 

 genus LEMBUS of Giinther. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences for April, 1860, (pages 

 120 to 126,) there has been given a monograph of the Philypni, of which two 

 genera, represented by three species, were described. Some time after the 

 publication of that memoir, the first volume of the " Catalogue of the Acan- 

 thopterygian Fishes" of the British Museum, was received. Dr. Albert Giin- 

 ther, the author, among the addenda of that volume, has described a new 

 generic form founded on a species discovered by Mr. Eraser in the Andes of 

 Ecuador ; the new genus was named Lcmbus, and is said to be " a true repre- 

 sentative in South America of the Perches of the Arctic regions." In its 

 general appearance, it is stated to resemble Lucioperca, or some of the other 

 elongate Perches. 



A perusal of the generic and specific diagnoses of Dr. Giinther has con- 

 vinced us that there must be some error in the reference of his new form to 

 the family of Percoids. 



In the diagnosis of the genus, there is said to be no lateral line, and the first 

 dorsal has seven slender spines. 



In the specific description, the branchiostegal membrane is stated to be ^^ fixed 

 to the isthmus, without touching that of the other side," and " the ventral is in- 

 serted exactly under the pectoral, and composed of one feeble spine and five 

 rays, the fourth of which is the longest, nearly reaching to the vent," " The 

 pseudobranchia; are absent." " The opercles are neither serrated nor armed. 



As none of these characteristics are common to the true Percoids, great 

 doubt may be entertained as to the propriety of referring a fish with such 

 features to that family. And as in all of those same characters, it resembles 

 the Gobioids, and especially theEleotroid genera, we entertain little or no doubt 

 that it is really a member of the same family. 



One of Gunther's generic characters is the presence of a " band of villiform 

 teeth on the jaws and on the vomer. ''^ There are six branchiostegals. The genus, 

 therefore, belongs to the group oi Philypni.'^ 



The scales are described as " rather small, ctenoid, pentangular, with the 

 basal margin vertical." This form of the scales is a common feature of the 

 Gobioids with ctenoid scales, and although only the descriptive phase "ctenoid " 

 is applied, it is not to too much to infer that, like its failles, Lembus has the 

 scales simply pectinated on their posterior margins. The form of the body is 

 described as resembling that oi Lucioperca ; Lembus is consequently on account 

 of the size and pectination of the scales, and the general form of the body, 

 more nearly allied to Philypnus as restricted by us than to Bostrichthys. The 

 true generic characters, so far as can be gathered from the description, appear 

 to be the following: 



Lembus Giinther. 



Synonymy. 



Lembus Giinther, " Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fish," &c., voL i. p. 



505, 1860. 



Head elongated, above depressed, and flat between the eyes. Mouth large, 



the supramaxillary bones extending to or beyond the vertical of the anterior 



border of the eye ; lower jaw projecting beyond the upper ; nostrils distant; 



*The pseudobranchiEE are absent, so far as yet known, only in the genera Cnidon of 

 MuUer and Troschel, and Lates of Cuvier among the Percoids. The preoperculum 

 is sometimes entire in some of the Percoid genera, but the operculum has always one or 

 more spines. The Etheostomoids have the inner rays of the ventrals longer than the 

 external, but they are much more nearly related to Gobioids than to Percoids. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



the posterior is near the upper angle of the orbit ; the anterior is minute, and 

 close to the upper extremity of the maxillary bone. Eyes of moderate size. 

 Branchial apertures lateral. Scales ctenoid, at least on the trunk ; small scales 

 extending over the entire head, except the snout. Anterior dorsal fin with 

 seven rays. 



From the above description, it is evident that the genus is very nearly allied 

 to Philypnus, and may perhaps be even identical with it. It probably, how- 

 ever, differs by having the branchial apertures more restricted and not extend- 

 ing so far forwards ; by the more distant nostrils, which are not described as 

 having raised margins, and possibly the smaller size of the scales on the head. 

 The anterior dorsal has also seven rays, while Philypniis has only six, in 

 common with most of the Gobioids. But all of these distinctions remain to be 

 verified, and it is hoped that the author will give the true characters in that 

 volume of his work in which the Gobioids will be described. 



Although Dr. Gunther appears to have been undoubtedly mistaken as to the 

 affinities of his genus Lembvs, the excellence and appropriateness of his de- 

 scription have left us in no doubt as to its true relations. The genital papilla 

 is not mentioned as being present, but it was undoubtedly overlooked. 



A single species of L embus is known. 



Lembds maculatus Giinther. 

 Synonymy . 



Lembus maculatus Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 

 vol. i. p. 505. 



The species is thus characterized by Giinther : 



" Yellowish, irregularly spotted with blackish, back with five dark cross- 

 bars ; a black blotch behind the extremity of the operculum ; three blackish 

 streaks radiating from the eye, the vertical fins dotted with blackish." 



There are fifty-seven scales in a longitudinal line, and twenty-two (?) in a 

 transverse line. 



The radial formula is is B. 6. D. vii. I. 9, A. ii. 9. 



There are now known, if Lembvs is really distinct from Philypnus, three 

 genera of the Philypnoid group. 



I. Philypnus Val. 



Represented by species dwelling in the seas, on the eastern and western sides 

 of tropical America, and ascending the fresh water streams. 



II. Lembus Gunther. 



With one species inhabiting the mountain streams of Ecuador. 



Ill, BosTKiCHTHYS (Dum.) Gill. 



Peculiar to the temperate and tropical waters of eastern and southern Asia. 



Note. In the Proceedings of the Zoological Society for January to June, 1860 

 page 236, which we have only now seen, Dr. Giinther has remarked that his Lem- 

 bus maculatus has "a prominent papilla near the vent, and is nearly allied to 

 Philypnus." We take much pleasure in recording Dr. Giinther's own correc- 

 tion of his error. It is at the same time due to ourselves to remark that we 

 had shortly after the reception of the " Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian 

 Fish," alluded to, in letters to two ichthyological friends, the affinity of Lembui 

 and Philypnus.^ and that we had at nearlj^ the same time in conversation with 

 several others, expressed the same opinion. We allow the remarks and de- 

 scriptions to stand that we then composed. 



1861.] 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Synopsis of American Cretaceous Brachiopoda, 



BY W. M. GABB. 



The paucity of species of this order in the cretaceous formation of North 

 America is worthy of note. Among nearly a thousand species of mollusca, 

 not a dozen, in all, have as yet been discovered and characterized. This 

 arises doubtless from the fact that the only beds of the formation, yet 

 demonstrated on this continent, belong to the higher members. The upper 

 chalk comprises all the strata east of the Mississippi, and may include all west 

 of that stream, although palseontological evidence seems to indicate the existence 

 of the lower chalk, in the strata designated as Nos. 1 and 2 of Meek and 

 Hayden's section in Nebraska, as well as part, if not all, of No. 3 of the same 

 authors. The same deposits appear to exist in Texas, and may be found 

 to cover a large extent of the yet unexplored regions of the West. Two or 

 three upper greensand fossils have been mentioned as occurring in Texas, but 

 as far as my opportunities of comparison have gone, I am satisfied that they 

 are distinct. This is the case with the two species referred by Dr. Roemer, in 

 his " Kreidebildungen von Texas," to Pecten virgatus, Nils., and Trigonia 

 rrenulata, Lam. 



Terebratcla, Lam. 



T. Harlan i, Morton. Silliman's .Journal, v. 18, pi. 3, f. 16. 



T. perovalis, M., not Sow. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., i. ser., v. 6, pi. .3. 



T. Camilla, M. Syn. 70. 



T. Harlani, M. Syn. 70, pi. 3, f. 1, and pi. 9, f. 8, 9. 



T.fragilis, Morton, not Schlot. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. 6, p. 75, pi. 3, f. 3, 4. 



T. Atlantica, M. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., i. s., v. 8, p. 214. 



T. subfragilis, d'Orb. Prod. Pal. v. 2, p. 258. 



This species appears to be rather common in New Jersey. I have seen a 

 deposit in the marl pits of Hon. Nathan Stratton, near Mullica Hill, N. J., 

 almost entirely made up of the broken shells. In other places they are 

 generally found whole. They vary very much in form. Sometimes the sides 

 are as straight as the figure given in the Journal of the Academy, 1st ser., v. 6, 

 pi. 3, f. 1 ; while other specimens are much more orbicular than the figures 

 of the form referred by Dr. Morton to T. perovalis of Sowerby, and afterwards 

 called T. Camilla. The convexity of the valves varies, although generally the 

 wider the shell, the flatter is the surface of the valves. Sometimes again, 

 they show no traces of plications, and at others they are strongly plicate. I 

 have made a careful comparison of nearly a hundred specimens of this and 

 the form called T. fragilis by Dr. Morton, and I am compelled to believe, 

 against my preconceived ideas to the contrary, that they are only wide varieties 

 of the same species. True, there is no difficulty in separating the typical forms 

 of the two, so-called, species ; but, after so disposing of two-thirds of the 

 specimens, I found some of the same size and shape as fragilis with no 

 plications, except the faint ridges of the typical form of Harlani, while others, 

 having all the other characters of T. Harlani, have plications nearly as deep 

 as Dr. Morton's type of T. fragilis. The specimens of the latter form are not 

 so common as the other. M. d'Orbigny, in Pro home de Pal. Strat., proposes 

 the name subfragilis in pltice of fragilis, which was pre-occupied by Schlotheim. 

 I have never seen this species, except from New Jersey and Delaware. 



T. Wacoensis, Rcem. Kreid. Tex., p. 81, pi. 6j, fig. 2. 

 Appears to be common in Texas. 



T. Leonensis, Con. Emory's Report, v. 1, p. 164, pi. 21, f. 2. 



Very closely related to Wacoensis, but appears to be longer and more narrowed 

 anteriorly. I am only acquainted with this species by means of the description 

 ■and figure quoted above. 



Locality. Texas. ^ 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. V.) 



T. Choctawensis, Shumavd, Marcy's Report, p. 195, pi. 2, f. 3. 



From the description given of this species, it would appear to be distinct 

 from T. Wacoensis, but I have specimens in my collection intermediate in form 

 between the two. The figure given is almost useless for the purpose of 

 identification, but seems to me to be nothing but a young specimen of Roemer's 

 species, a little more gibbous than usual. The slight difierence of outline i? 

 not of enough importance to warrant their separation. 



T. Guadalupse, Roem. Kreide. von Texas, p. 82, pi. 6, f. 3. 



Resembles a terehratulina, especially in the hinge margin of the ventral 

 valve ; but if the figure is correct, in regard to the form of the area of Vnc 

 dorsal valve, it is a true Terebratula. 



Terebkatella, d'Orb. 



T. plicata, d'Orb. Prod. Pal., v, 2, p. 259. 



T. Satfi, Gabb, 1S59. Cat. Cret., p. 17, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1859. 

 Terebratula plicata, Say. Sillimau's Jour. v. 2, p. 43. 

 Terebratula Sayi, Morton. Synopsis, p. 71, pi. 3, f. 3, 4. 

 Common in New Jersey. 



T. Vanuxemiana, d'Orb. Prod. Pal., v. 2, p. 259. 



Terebratula, id., Lyell and Forbes. Quart. Jour. Geol. So., London, v. 1, p. (52. 



Resembles the preceding species, but is undoubtedly distinct. It is found 

 in New Jersey, but is rare. 



Terebratdlina, d'Orb. 



T. Floridina, d'Orb. Prod. Pal., v. 2, p. 258. 



Terebratula, id., Morton. Synopsis, p. 72, pi. 16, f. 7. 

 From the Cretaceous limestone of Alabama. 



T. lachry ma, d'Orb. Prod. Pal., 396. 



Terebratula, id., Morton. Synopsis, p. 72, pi. 10, f. 11, and pi. 16, f, 0. 



Said by Dr. Morton to occur in South Carolina, and in Alabama, in beds, 

 since referred to the Eocene. M. d'Orbigny places it in the lower Eocene, 

 This is incorrect, since I have it from the Cretaceous marls of New Jersey. 



T. H al liana, n. s. 



Suborbicular, flattened, most convex near the upper portion. The side;? 

 slope towards the beak for about a third of the length of the shell. The 

 lower portion of the shell is rounded, presenting a very obscure angulation 

 where the lateral margins unite with the basal ; basal margin faintly sinuous. 

 Lower valves regularly but moderately convex, with the sinus only visible on 

 the lower fourth ; foramen moderately large, area high. Upper valve convex 

 for half its length, but in old specimens flat or concave for the remainder : 

 hinge margin of the upper valve sloping distinctly from the beak, laterally. 

 Surface marked by numerous rounded dichotomous ribs, crossed by very fine 

 concentric lines. 



This species difi'ers from T. lachryma in form, so that a glance will serve to 

 distinguish it. It resembles T. Floridana in shape, but the outline is somewhat 

 more rounded than the specimen figured in " Synopsis." Itdiff'ers, however, 

 in having a more distinct sinus, in being less gibbous, and in the ribs beine 

 more prominent, larger and not so numerous. It gives me great pleasure to 

 dedicate this beautiful species to the most able student of American Brachiopoda. 

 Prof. Jas. Hall, of Albany, N. Y. 



Localiti/. New Jersey. 



The only species of the family Lingulidce yet known, is 



Lingula subspatulata. Hall and Meek, 1855. Mem. Am. Acad., Boston. 

 2s.,v. 5,p. 380,pl.l, 



1861.] 




20 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Pursuant to the By-Laws of the Academy, an election of the mem- 

 bers of the Standing Committees for 1861 was held, with the following 

 result : 



ETHNOLOGY. 

 J. A. Meigs, 

 S. S. Haldeman, 

 T. G. Morton. 



COMP. AN AT. AND PHYSIOLOGY. 



Jos. Leidy, 

 Jas. M. Corse, 

 J. H. Slack. 



MA3I3IAL0GY, 



J. H. Slack, 

 John Cassin, 

 J. L. LeConte. 



ORNITHOLOGY. 



John Cassin, 

 Thos. B. Wilson, 

 s. w. woodiiouse. 



HERPETO LOGY Si ICHTHYOL G Y. 



R. Bridges, 



J. Cheston Morris, 



J. L. Le Conte. 



CONCHOLOGY. 

 T. A. Conrad, 



W. Gr. BiNNEY, 



C. J. Cleborne. 



ENTOMOLOGY AND CRUSTACEA. 



Robert Bridges, 

 J. L. Le Conte, 

 E. T. Cresson. 



BOTANY. 

 E. DURAND, 



J. Darrach, 

 Jos. Carson. 



GEOLOGY, 



Isaac Lea, 

 Chs. E. Smith, 

 J. P. Lesley. 



MINERALOGY. 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 J. C. Trautwine, 

 T. D. Rand. 



PALAEONTOLOGY 



Jos. Leidy, 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 Wm. M. Gabb. 



PHYSICS. 



B. Howard Rand, 

 Wm. M. Uhler, 

 James C. Booth. 



LIBRARY. 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



Jos. Leidy, 



J. D. Sergeant. 



PROCEEDINGS. 



J. L. Le Conte, 

 Jos. Leidy, 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 

 Jas. C. Fisher, 

 Thos. Stewardson. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



February bth. 

 Mr. Lea, President, iu the Chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Synonymy of the Cyclades, &c. No. 2. By Temple Prime." 



" Synopsis of the Subfamily Clupinae, with descriptions of new 



genera, by Theodore Gill." 



" Descriptions of twenty-five new species of Unionidaa from G-eorgia, 



Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee and Florida, by Isaac Lea." 

 And were referred to committees. 



Fehraary 12th. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty -five members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Descriptions of new recent shells from the coast of South Carolina, 

 by Edmund Ravenel." 



''Synopsis of the Subfamily Percinae, by Theodore Gill." 

 " Synopsis generum llhyptiei et affinium, by Theodore Gill." 

 " Description of a new species of Neritina, from Coosa river, Ala- 

 bama, by Isaac Lea." 



" Descriptions of two new species of Anodonta, from Arctic xlmerica, 

 by Isaac Lea." ■ 



And were referred to committees. 



Dr. LeConte stated in regard to the species of Anableps. described in the 

 Proceedings of last month, by Mr. Gill, as A. D o w i i, that lie had seen it in 

 great abundance, not only in the bay of La Union, San Salvador, but in all the 

 streams emptying into the Gulf of Fonseca, and also iu the small tributaries of 

 the Rio Lempa, as far as the town of Virtud, a great distance from the ocean. 

 The method of swimming is very peculiar ; the fishes are seen in groups on 

 the surface of the water, with their eyes projecting; they are easily alarmed, 

 and very active. They are known to the natives under the name cuatro-ojos,, 

 in allusion to the transverse black band which divides the iris. 



• 



Mr. Gabb remarked that he had recently had an opportunity of conversing 

 with Messrs. Meek and Hayden in regard to the Geological formations of the 

 far West, and of examining the fossils brought by the numerous Government 

 expeditions from that region. He said, "I have seen both the Gryphica 

 calceola and the Ostrea Mars/iii,^' referred to by Prof. Marcou, in his letter, 

 read to the Academy on December 11th, of last year. 



" Prof. Marcou was laboring under a false impression in regard to those 

 species, and thus misled me. The form referred to by Messrs. Mecsk and 

 Englemann as G. calceola, is that figured by Quenstedt on pi. 48, figs. 2, 3 and 4, 

 and called by Rcemer Ostrea calceola. The form illustrated by fig. 1 ot the 

 same plate has never been found. It is even doubtful whether the Western 



1861 ] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fossil is at all identical with the European species ; but it is not sufficiently 

 distinct to warrant a separation with the amount of material collected. 



There can be no doubt, however, that this species (even were it found in 

 the same beds with " G. Tucumcarii"), is certainly distinct from that species. 

 The principal points of difference are — G. calceola(?) is a short abrupt oyster, 

 with a large surface of attachment, and in every instance yet known with the 

 beak totally obliterated. It is found in a bed not only with very different 

 lithological characters, but belonging to a different horizon from those con- 

 taining the G. Pitcherii. 



The "plicated oyster, closely allied to O. Marskii," is in several important 

 points very distinct from that species. It has been called by Mr. Meek 

 O. Englemannii. It is of the type of 0. Marshii, has strong plications, but 

 differs mainly in the area. I have examined twenty or thirty specimens, and 

 compared them with all the figures of the European species to which I have 

 had access. The area of 0. MarsJdi is at least four times as long as that of 

 0. Englemannii. There are other characters also which would serve to distin- 

 guish them ; as yet, the true O. Marshii has never been found in America. 



Through the kindness of my friend, Dr. Janeway, I have obtained some 

 specimens of Gryphcea Pitcherii, from the Indian Territory, near the Choctaw 

 mission, and I believe I now have the means of proving the identity of the 

 true G. Pitcherii with the form called by Prof. Marcou, G. dilatata, var. 

 Tucttmcarii. 



With the aid of Prof. Marcou's figures, 1 to 3, pi. 4, on one hand, and Dr, 

 Morton's types on the other, I have an unbroken series of gradation from one 

 form to the other. I have exhibited the suite to a number of the best 

 naturalists in Philadelphia, and no one has been able to show a break in the 

 series. Mr. Conrad, after a careful examination, pronounced them to be a 

 regular gradation from one variety to anotlier of the same species. 



Dr. Morton's original specimens, now lying on the table, as well as the last 

 sentence of his descriptions, show that the beak is "distinctly incurved." 

 Prof. Marcou refers a form to this species in which the beak is strongly deflected. 

 This form, unknown to Dr. Morton, is, I have no doubt, distinct. I have 

 recently gone over the whole subject carefully, with the following results : The 

 oblique, carinated form is a distinct species, and must be called Grt/phcea navis. 

 The species described by Morton is the same as the one called Tucumcarii by 

 Marcou. The small specimen figured by Morton is said by Marcou to be 

 " incomplete and without the superior valve." This is not so. The specimen 

 is a young one, but is very perfect. Dr. Roemer did not see it, because it was 

 lost some time before his visit to Philadelphia, and afterwards discovered by 

 me among some rubbish. The beak and umbone are round, there is no 

 carination, and the figure in the Synopsis will convey a very correct idea of 

 its form. It is as distinctly lobed as the figure 1, pi. 4, of Geology of N. A. 



The large specimen, spoken of by Dr. Morton, from the plains of Kiamesha, 

 is more nearly of the form of figure 3 of the same plate. There is every form 

 between the two varieties, viz. : the one figured by Morton in his Synopsis, 

 pi. 15, fig. 9, and the pi. 4, figs. 1 and 2. 



I do not wonder that Prof. Marcou should have maintained the difference 

 between G. J'itcherii and G. Tucumcarii as he understood them, but the key- 

 to the difficulty is this : G. Tucumcarii is the typical form of G. Pitcherii, 

 while G. Pitcherii, Marcou, is G, navis. This can be proven to any person who 

 will take the trouble of investigating the subject." 



Mr. Lea read a portion of a letter from Dr. Lewis, of Mohawk, New York, 

 giving an account of a very sudden and remarkable fall of temperature experi- 

 enced at that place, on the 7th of February last. The diagram exhibited was 

 an exact copy of the one made at the time, by the self-registering thermometer 

 devised by Dr. Lewis, and to which the attention of the Academy had been 

 called by Mr. Lea at a previous meeting. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



23 



Recording Clock run dowu 

 Record ends here. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The direction of the wind had been noted during the time of observation, as 

 follows : 



Wind east until 9, A. M. From 9, A. M., until 10^ A. M., wind S. W. with 

 a little rain. From 10;^ violent west wind with snow. The clouds gathered 

 like a summer thunder storm. I thought I discovered a faint flash of light- 

 ning about 12. Mrs. L. reports to me, that between 6 and 7, P. M., there was 

 a partial remission of the storm. This may account for the sudden elevation 

 of temperature that appears on the record at that time. The greatest violence 

 of the storm was after this time, gradually declining after II or 12 o'clock. 

 The snow accompanying this storm was in very fine particles. Probable 

 range of temperature' from 10, A. M., 7th Feb., until 8, A. M., 8th Feb., about 

 70°. Feb. 11th, at 2 J, P. M., temperature 52° ! ! 



Fehruary \Qth. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair, 

 Thirty-five members present. 

 A ptiper was presented for publication, entitled 

 " Descriptions of new species of Anodonta and Lithasia, by Isaac 

 Lea," which was referred to a committee." 



Dr. Slack called the attention of the members to some specimens of mam- 

 malia upon the table, viz. : 



Anomalurus Beechcrof t ii (Fraser, P. Z. S.,) 1852, page 11, t. Tliis genus 

 resembles somewhat the American flying squirrel, (Pteromys,) bat difi'ers in 

 having the greater portion of the tail covered with very short hairs, termi- 

 nating in a tuft. On the inferior surface of the basal portion are a number of 

 skarp, short spines, projecting downward. These are used by the animal in 

 climbiug, somewliat in the manner of climbing irons. This specimen is from 

 Western Africa, collected by Duchaillu. 



Belideus flaviventer ( Waterhouse, Marsupialia, p. 286. ) A fine mounted 

 specimen of this species, the Hepoona Roo of the colonists, was exhibited, and 

 the distinction pointed out between the genera Belideus and Acrobates, This 

 specimen was procured by Dr. Slack of a dealer in Edinburgh, and was said 

 to have been received from New South Wales. 



A fine series of the Aluatta c a r a y a Slack, (Simia caraya Humb., 31ycetes 

 niger 'WiaA.) Dr. S. stated that the name of Mycetes {IUiyer,'Pro(iiroxnviS, 

 1811.) should be replaced by that of Aluatta, proposed by Lacepede in his 

 Tableaux de Classification, 1799. The series consisted of five specimens, an 

 adult male, entirely black ; a very young^ male and adult female of a golden 

 yellow color ; and two nearly adult males, j'ellow, dashed with black. Two of 

 the specimens were in the collection of the Academy, the others were collected 

 during the recent Paraguay expedition, and are the property of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 



Among the mammals presented by the Smithsonian Institution this evening, 

 he particularized a female of the Caprovis canadensis Grai), Ovis canaden- 

 sis Shaw, Nat. Misc., xv., 1790, (Ovis montana Ord. Journ. A. N. S,, vol. i. 

 page 8, 1817, ) and a very large specimen of the Castor canadensis Kuhl., 

 measuring three feet five inches from extremity of snout to end of tail. 



Fehruary 2Qf7i. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-three members present. 



On report of the respective committees, the following were ordered 

 to be printed in the Proceedings : 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Synonymy of the Cyclades, a family of Acephalous Mollusca. Part 2. 

 BY TEMPLE PRIME. 



Species. 



Galatea, Brug. 



1. G. Aegyptica, Fischer. II. Conch, v. 342. 1856. Bernardi Monog. 39, 



pi. vi., f. 1, 2. 1860. 

 Venus Aegyptica, Chemn. xi. 231, f. 1985, 1986. 

 Galatea Chemnitzii, Phil. Abb. 124. 1851. 

 Hab. Egypt. 



2. G. G. B e n g e n s i s , Dkr. Iiid. Guin. 51, pi. ix. f. 28, 30. Zeit. Malak. 



183. 1848. Phil. Abb. 123. 1851. Bernardi Monog. 25, pi. vi. f. 5. 

 6., pi. ix. f. 4. 1860. 

 Hab. Africa. 



3. G. Bernardii, Dkr. II. Conch. 338, pi. xii. f. 3. 1857. Bernardi 



Monog. 32, pi. V. f. 1, 5. pl. viii. f. 8. 1860. 

 Hab. Guinea. 



4. G. C ail 1 audi i , Bernardi. Bern. Monog. 43, pl. iv. f. 1, 2. pl. ix. f. 3. 



1860. 

 Hab. Afi-ica. 

 — G.. Chemnitzii, Phil. Phil. Abb. IM. 1851. Is Gal. A egyp t ic a. 



Fischer. 



5. G. concamerata, Duval. Rev. Zool. 211. 1840. Chenu. III. Couch. 



livr. 55. 2d pl. suppl. f. 3. Bernardi Monog. 20, pl. ii., f. 1. pl. iii., 

 f. 1, 2, pl. viii. f. 1. 1860. 

 Hab. Africa. 



6. G. Cumingii, Dkr. Bernardi Monog. 35, pl. vi. f. 7, 8. pl. ix. f. 8. 



1860. 

 Hab. Gaboon. 



7. G. Heukelomii, Bernardi. Bern. Monog. 30, pl. vi. f. 3,4. pl. ix. f. 2. 



1860. 

 Hab. Africa. 



8. G. Kochii, Bernardi. Bern. Monog. 22, pl. iv. f. 3-8, pl. ix. f. 6, 7. 



1860. 

 Hab. Central Africa. v 



9. G. laeta, Phil. Zeit. Malak. 190. 1848. Phil. Abb. 123, pl. 1. f. 2. 



1851. Bernardi Monog. 27, pl. 1, f. 3-8. pl. viii. f. 7. 1860. 

 Hab. Guinea. 



10. G. Lubackii, Bernardi. Bern. Monog. 24,1)1. 1, f. 4, 6. pl. viii. f. 4. 



1860. 

 Hab. Africa. 

 — G. par ad ox a, Adams. Adams, Rec. Gen. 2, 408. 1858. Is Gal. 



radiata. Lam. 

 — G. Philippiana, Morelet. Mss. Is Gal. laeta et rubiconda. 



11. G. radiata, Lamk. Ann. Mus. v. 430, f. 28. 1806. Bernardi Monog. 



18, pl. vii. f. 1-5, pl. viii. f. 3. 1860. 

 Pectunculus subviridis, crassissimus, rostratus ? List. pl. 158, f. 13. 

 1770. 

 1861.] 




:26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Venus paradoxa, Born. Born. Mus. 66, pi. iv. f. 12, 13. 1780. 



V. reclusa, Chemn. vi. 326, pi. 31, f. 327-329. 1788. 



V. meretrix, van Gml. 13 ed. 3273. No. 15. 1793. 



V. hermaphrodita, Gml. 13 ed. 3278. No. 40. 1793. 



F. subviridls, Gml. 13 ed. 3280. No. 55. 1793. Brug. Encycl. pi. 250. 



1797. 

 Egeria radiata, Roissy. Buffon, vi. 327, pi. 64, f. 5. 

 Douax variegata, Perry. Conch, pi. 58, f. 1 ? 1811. 

 Tellina hermaphrodita, Diller. Cat. 1, 107. 1817. 

 Trigona (ex parte.) Schum. 153. 1817. 



Cyclas hermaphrodita, Mart. Mag. Nat. Hist. 1, 402, pi. 1, f. 1, 2. 

 Potamophila radiata, Sowb. Gen. of Shells. 

 Megadesma radiata, Bowd. Elem. Conch. 2d pt. 8, f. 21. 1822. 

 Cyclas radiata, Schweig. Handbuch d. nat. 707. 

 Venus paradoxa. Wood. Index, pi. vii. f. 48. 1828. 

 Galatea paradoxa, Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 408. 1858. 

 Hab. Africa. 



12. G. rubicund a, Phil. Zeit. Malak. 190. 1848. Pbil. Abb. 123, pi. 1, 



f. 2. 1852. Bernardi Monog. 37, pi. 1, f. 1, 2, pi. viii. f. 2. 1860. 

 Galatea Philippiance, Morelet. (pars.) Mss. 

 Hab. Guinea. 



13. G. tenuicula, Phil. Zeit. Malak. 191. 1848. Phil. Abb. iii. 124, pi, 



1, f. 3. 1851. Bernardi Monog. 41, pi. ii. f. 2 ; pi. viii. f. 5. 1860. 

 Hab.? 

 — G. versicolor, Morelet. Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 408. 1858. Is Gal. 



laeta et rubiconda. 



FiscHERiA,* Bernardi. 1860. 



1. F. Delessertii, Bernardi. Bernardi Monog. 46, pi. 3, f. 3, 4; pi. ix. 

 f. 5. 1860. 

 Hab. Cape Palmas, Africa. 



Gladconome, Gray. 



1. Gl. angulata. Reeve. Proc. Zool. xii. 20. 1844. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, 



f. vi. 

 Hab. Isl. of Negros. 

 — Gl. bipinnata, Phil. Pal. Foss. pi. xi. f. 33. Is Ichthyorachus bi- 



p i n n a t a, d'Orb. 



2. Gl. cere a. Reeve. Proc. Zool. xii. 20. 1844. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, f. viii. 

 Hab. The Gauges. 



3. Gl. Chinensis, Reeve. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, f. 1. 

 Hab. China. 



4. Gl. convex a, Desli. Grat. Moll. terr. et tiuv. Fr. 51. 1855. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



5. Gl. corrugata. Reeve. Proc. Zool. xii. 20. 1844. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, 



f. V. 

 Hab. Manilla. 



i;. Gl. curt a, Reeve. Proc. Zool. xii. 20. 1844. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, f. 7. 

 Hab. Lucon. 



— Gl. disticha, Goldf. pi. 64, f. 15. 1830. Is Penniretepora distic- 

 cha, d'Orb. 



*Tnis genus having been instituted subsequenily to the pubUcation of the first part of 

 •his paper, did not appear in the list given of the genera belonging to this family. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 27 



— ai. distich a, Lonsdale. March. Silur. pi. xv. f. 12. 1839. Is 

 Penniretepora Lonsdalei, d'Orb. 



— Gl. gracilis, McCoy. Syn. Ireld. 199, pi. 28, f. v. 1844. Is Penni- 

 retepora gracilis, d'Orb. 



— Gl. grandis, McCoy. Loc. sub. cit. 199, pi. 28, f. 3. 1844. Is Penni- 

 retepora grand is, d'Orb. 



— Gl. hexagon a, Miinst. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 1, 100, pi. 36, f. 8. 1831. 

 Is Vincularia hexagona, d'Orb. 



— Gl. mar gin at a, Miinst. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 1, 100, pi. 36, f. v. 1831. 

 Is Vincularia margin ata, d'Orb. 



7. Gl. plana, Desh. Grat. Moll. terr. fluv. Fr. 51. 1855. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



S. Gl. psmatella, Desh. 



Glauconomeya psmatella, Desh. Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 442. 1858. 

 Hab? 



— Gl. pulcherrima, McCoy. Syn. Ireld. 99, pi. 2S, f. 4. 1844. Is 

 Plytopora p u 1 c 5i e r r i m a , d'Orb. 



.). Gl. radiata. Reeve. Proc. Zool. xii. 20. 1844. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, f. 3. 

 Hab. Zeeba. 



— Gl. r h o m b i f e r a , Miinst. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 1, 100, pi. 36, f. 6. 1831. 

 Is Vincularia r ho mbife r a, d'Orb. 



10. Gl. rostralis, Desh. 



Glauconomya rostralis, Desh. Adams. Rec. Gen. 2, 442. 1858. 

 Hab? 



11. Gl. rugosa, Reeve. Proc. Zool. xii. 19. 1844. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, f. 4. 



Hanley in Wood. Index, pi. x. f. 4. 

 Hab. Manilla. 



12. Gl. straminea, Reeve. Proc. Zool. xii. 20. 1844. Conch. Icon. pi. 1, 



f. 2. 

 Hab. Manilla. 

 — Gl. tetragona, Miinst. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 1, 100, pi. 36, f. 7. 1831. 



Is Vincularia f r a g i 1 i s , Defrance. 



13. Gl. virens? Hanley. Proc. Zool. xii. 18. 1844. 

 Hab. China. 



Cypeina, Lamk. 



— C. aequalis, Phil. Sicil 1, 39. 1836. Is Cyprina Is landic a, Lamk. 



1. C. affinis, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus affinis, Miinst. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 244, pi. 150, f. xi. 1839. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



2. C. Alcyon, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



3. C. amphytrion, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



4. C. angulata, Sowb. M. C. 1, 145, pi. 65. 1314. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



— C. angulata, Sowb. Trans. Geol. iv. 128. 1836. Is Cyprina Sower- 

 byi, d'Orb. 



5. C. Antiopa, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



ISGl.J 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



6. C. antiqua, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus antiqua, Miinster. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 243, pi. 150, f. iv. 1839. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 

 — G. Archiacina, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Crassatella quadrata, d'Archiac. Mem. Soc. Geol. 2d ser. 2, 301, pi. xiv. 

 f. 1. 1847. 

 Hab. Belgium, (fossil.) 



— C. Arctica, Turt. Brit, bivalves, 135. 1822. IsCyprina Islandica, 

 Lamk. 



7. C. are n aria. Meek & Hayden. Proc. Ac. N. S. Phil. ix. 143. 1857. 

 Hab. N. America, (fsssil.) 



8. C. AretKusa, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



9. C. Arion, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



10. C. astartaeformis, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1S50. 



Isocardia astartaeformis, Mlinst. Beitr. Petr. iv. 87, pi. viii. f. 24. 1841. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



11. C. Bajocina, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



12. C. Beaumont ii, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Cardium Beaumontii, d'Archiac. Mem. Soc. Geol. 373, pi. xxvi. f. 4. 

 1843. 

 Hab. France and England, (fossil.) 



13. G. Bernard in a, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



14. C. Bernensis, Leymerie. 1842. 



CypriTia rostrata, d'Orb. (non Sowb.) Pal. Fr. cret. 3, 98, pi. 271. 1843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



15. C. Blandina, dOrb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



16. C. Bonasia, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



17. C. Bosquet ian a, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



18. C. Bronnii, Desh. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil ) 



19. C. Calliope, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



20. C. Caucriniana, d'Orb. Murch. Vern. et de Keys. Russia, 2. 457. 



pi. 38, f. 26, 27. 1845. 

 Hab. Russia, (fossil.) 



21. C. carditaeformis, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus carditaeformis, Roemer, Oolit. 109, pi. vii. f. 15. 1836. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



22. C. carinata, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus carinata, Roemer. Oolit. 110, pi. vii. f. 10. 1836. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



23. C. Carter on i, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Hab. France, (fossil.) 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 29 



— C. compress a, Turt. Brit, bivalves, 136, pi. xi. f. 21-23. 1822. Is 

 Astarte compressa, Mont. 



24. C. compressa, Meek & Hayden. Proc. Ac. N. S. PMl. 144. 1857. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



25. C. Conradi, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Venilia Conradi, Morton. Syn. Cret. pi. viii. f. 1, 2. 1834. 

 Cardita decisa. Loc. sub. cit.. pi. ix. f. 3. 1834. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



26. C. consobrina, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 107, pi. 278, f. 3-6. 1843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



27. C. Coral Una, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



28. C. cordata , Meek & Hayden. Proc. Ac. N. S. Phil. ix. 143. 1857. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



29. C. cordiformis, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 101, pi. 273. 1843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



30. C. cornuta, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Tsocardia cornuta, Kladen. PI. 3, f. 8. Roemer 38, pi. 19, f. 14, 1839. 

 Hab? 



31. C. corrugata, Lamk. Lamk. v. 1818. 

 Hab ? (fossil. ) 



— C. c r a s s a , Desb. Encycl. Meth. t. 11. 2d part, 47. 1830. Is Corbicula 

 c r a s s a , Desh. 



32. C. crassitesta, Reuss. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



33. C. cuneata, Sowb. Trans. Geol, Soc. iv. 240, pi. 16, f. 19. 1836. 

 Hab. France and England, (fossil.) 



34. C. Cytberea, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. Defrancii, Van Beneden. Is Cyprina r us t ic a , Flem. 

 — C. deltoidea, Phil. Pal. foss. pi. 17, f. 59. Is Cardium d e 1 1 o i - 

 deum , d'Orb. 



35. C. dimorpha, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



36. C. dolabra, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



37. C. d on a c in a, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus donacina, Schloth. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 242, pi. 150, f. 3. 1839. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



— C. E g e r 1 n i , McCoy. Syn. Ireld. 55, pi. x. f. 9. 1844. Is Cardimor- 

 pha Egertonii, d'Orb. 



38. C. Elea, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



39. C. el on gat a, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 106, pi. 267, f. 816. 1843, 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



40. C. Erato, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



41. C. Eucharis, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



1861.] 




30 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



42. C. Ervyensis, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 102, pi, 274. 1843. 

 Hab, France, (fossil.) 



43. C. Gea, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. gig as, Lamk. Lamk. v. 1818. Is Venus u mb o n a ria . 



44. C. globosa, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Cardium globosum, Roemer. Oolit. 39, pi. 19, f. 19. 1836. 



Venus tenuistria, Miinst. Petr. Germ. 1, 245, pi. 150, f. 18. 1839. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



— C. globosa, Sharpe. .Joiirn. Geol. Soc. vi. pi. 15, f. 1. Is Cyprins 

 S h a r p e i , Prime. 



45. C. Glyceric, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



46. C. HelmersenianaVd'Orb. Murch. 2, 457, pi. 38, f. 28-30. 184.''.. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



47. C. Hersilia, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



48. C. humi lis. Meek & Hayden. Proc. Ac. N. S., Phil. 179. 1860. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



— C. incrassata, Nyst. Coq. Foss. Hasselt. 7. 1836. Is Cytherea i n - 

 crassata, Sowb. 



49. C. inornata, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 99, pi. 272, f. 1, 2. 1843. , 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



50. C. intermedia, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 107, pi. 278, f. 1, 2. 1843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



51. C. involuta, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Corbula involuta, Munst. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 2, 250, pi. 151, f. 14. 1839. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



.'')2. C. Islandica, Lamk. Lamk. v. 1818. 



Venus Islandica, Lmn. 1131. Mii Her, Verm. 246. 1774. 



Pectunculus major, da Costa. 183, pi. 14, f. 3. 1778. 



Venus hucardium, Born. Mus. 63, pi. 4, f. 11. 1780. 



Artica vulgaris, Schum. 145, pi. 13, f. 3. 1817. 



Cyprina arciica, Turt. Brit, bivalves, 135. 1822. 



Venus aeqiialis, Sowb. M. C. pi. xxi. 



Cyprina aequalis, Phil. Sieil. 1, 39. 1836. 



C. maxima, Wood. Ann. N. H. vi. 249. 



C. angulata, Sowb. Nyst. Foss. Anvers, 9. 



C. Idandicoides, Lamk. Loc. sub. cit. p. 9. 



C. vulgaris, Sowb. Gen. of Shells. 

 Hab. Europe and America. 



— C. Islandicoides, Lamk. Lamk. v. 1818. Is Venus Islandi- 

 c o i d e s , Lamk. 



53. C. .Jurensis, Morris. Brit, fossils, 199. 1854. 



Venus Jurensis, Miinster. Goldf. Petr. Germ. 2, p. 245, pi. 150, f. 17. 

 1839. 

 Hab. England and Germany, (fossil.) 



54. C. Kharascovensis, Rouillier. Bull. Soc. Moscou xx. 421 , f. 32. 32, 



1847. 

 Hab. Russia, (fossil.) 

 — C. Lajonkairii, Goldf. Petr. Germ. 237, pL 148, f. 9. 1841. I? 



Cyprina r u s t i c a , Goldf. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3l 



55. C. lata, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Venus lata, Roemer. 27, pi. ix. f. 10. 1841. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



56. C. laticostata, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Isocardia laticostata, Mlinster. Beitr. iv. 87, pi. viii. f. 24. 1841. 

 Hab. Austria, (fobsil.) 



57. C. L i g e r i e n s i s , d'Orb. Paleoiat. 3, 103, pi. 275, f. 1-3, Cexclns. f. 4 



5.) 1843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



58. C. lunula ta, Desh. Inv. Paris, 1, 546, pi. xxxv. f. 19-21. 1860. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. maxima, Wood. Ann. N. H. vi. 249. Is Cyprina Islandica, 



Lamk. 

 — C. minima, Turt. Brit, bivalves, 137. 1822. Is Circe minima. 



59. C. Morrissii, Sowb. Min. Conch, pi. 620. 

 Hab. England, (fossO.) 



60. C. nana, Sowb. Dixon, Foss. Suss. pi. 14, f. 8. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



61. C. neglect a, d'Orb. Prod. 3. 1852. 



Erycina neglecta, Nyst. 89, pi. 3, f. 134. 1843. 

 Hab. Belgium, (fossil.) 



62. C. Neptuni, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



63. C. nitida, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Isocardia nitida, Phil. 122, pi. ix. f. 10. 1829. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



64. C. Normaniana, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



65. C. None liana, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Cyprina Ligeriensis, d'Orb. (pars.) Paleont. 3, 103, pi. 275. f. 4 ^i. 

 (exclus. 1-3.) 1843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



66. C. nuda, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus nuda, Goldf. Zieten. 94, pi. 71, f. 3. 1830. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



67. C. Nystii, Hebert. 1849. 



Cyprina Scutellaria, Nyst. (non Desh.) 145, pi. 7, f. v; pi. 8, f. 1. 1843. 

 Hab. Belgium, (fossil.) 

 — C. obliqua, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. Is Corbicula obli qu a , Desh. 



68. C. obliquissima, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. Frtince, (fossil.) 



69. C. oblonga, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 105, pi. 277, f. 1-4. 1843. 



Astarte cyprinoides, d'Archiac. Tourtia pi. xiv. f. 5. 1847. 

 Hab. France and Belgium, (fossil.) 



— C. oblonga, Reuss. p. 4, pi. 15. 184G. Is Crassatella oblonpa. 

 d'Orb. 



70. C. orbicularis, Roem. Nord D. Kreide, 73, pi. ix. f. 8. 1841. 

 Hab. France and Germany, (fossil.) 



— C. orbiculata, Turton. Brit, bivalves, 138. 1822. Is Lucina o rb i- 

 c u 1 a r i s , Mont. 

 1861.] 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



71. C. va t a , Meek & Hayden. Proc. Ac. N. S., Phil. ix. 144. 1857. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



72. C. parvula, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Venus parvula, Roemer. Oolith. iii. pi. vii. f. 13. 1836. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



— C. Pedemontana, Lamk. Lamk. v. 1818. Is Venus Pedemon- 

 t ana . 



73. C. Phillip sii, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Isocardia angulata, Phillips. Yorksh. 122, pi. ix. f. 9. 1829. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



74. C. piatigorskensis, Fischer. Bull. Soc. Moscou, xxi. 1848. 

 Hab. Russia, (fossil.) 



— C. pi sum, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. Is Corbicula pi sum, Desh. 



75. C. plana, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Isocardia plana, Miinster. Petref. iv. 87, pi. viii. f. 23. 1841. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 

 — C. planata, Sowb. M. C. pi. 619. Is Cjrprina sc u tellari a, Desh. 



76. C. Provencialis, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



77. C. quad rat a, d'Orb. Paleont. 3, 105, pi. 276. 1843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



78. C. regular is, d'Orb. Loc. sub. cit. 3, 100, pi. 272, f. 3-6. 3843. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



79. C. Roemeri, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Lucina giobosa, Roemer. Oolit. 41, pi. 19, f. 6. 1831. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



80. C. ro St rat a, Sowb. Geol. Trans, iv. 240, pi. 17, f. 1. 1836. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



—C. rostrata, d'Orb. Pal. 3, 98, pi. 271. 1843. Is Cyprina B e rn e n- 

 s i s , Leym. 



81. C. rotundata, Braun. Agas. Icon. coq. test. 53, pi. 14. 1845. 

 Hab. Germ., (fossil.) 



82. C. Roy ana, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



83. C. rustica, Morris. Brit. Foss. 199. 1854. 



Venus rustica, Sowb. Mur. Conch, pi. 196. 



Cyprina Lajonkairii, Goldf. Petr. Germ. 237, pi. 148, f. 9. 1841. 

 C. tumida, Nyst. Tert. Belg. 148, pi. x. f. 1. 1835, 1843. 

 C Defrancii, Van Beneden. 

 Hab. England, Belgium and Germany, (fossil.) 



84. C. Scutellaria, Desh. Coq. foss. 1, 125, pi. xx. f. 1-3. 1824. 



Cytheria Scutellaria, Defr. Diet. Sole. Nat. t. xii. 421. 1818. 



Cyprina planata, Sowb. M. C. pi. 619. 

 Hab. France and England, (fossil.) 



— C. Scutellaria, Nyst. 145, pi. vii. f. 5. pi. viii. f. 1. 1843. Is Cy- 

 prina R y s t i i . Heberi. 



35. C. Sharp el. Prime. 



Cyprina giobosa, (preoc.) Sharpe. Journ. Geol. Soc. vi. pi. 15, f. 1. 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 33 



86. C. Sowerbyi, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. 



Cyprina angulata, Sowb. Trans. Geol. Soc. iv. 128. 1839. (non. Sowb. 

 M. C.) 

 Hab. England, (fossil.) 



87. C. strigillata, d'Orb, Prod. 1, 1850. 



Cardita strigillata, Klippstein. Beitr. Geol. 255, pi, xvi, f. 23. 1845. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



88. C. sub angulata, d'Orb. Prod, 1, 1850, 



Venus angulata, Miinster, Goldf. Petr, Germ, 2, 243, pi. 150, f. v, 1839. 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil.) 



89. C. subcordiformis, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



90. C. subobliqua, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus ohliqua, Munster, Goldf, Petr. Germ. 2, 243, pi. 150, f, 6, 1839, 

 Hab, Germ,, (fossil,) 



91. C, subro strata, Munster, Beitr, iv. 87, pi. viii, f, 26, 1841. 

 Hab, Germ., (fossil,) 



92. C. s u b t u m i d a , Meek & Hayden. Proc, Ac, N. S, Phil, ix, 144, 1857. 

 Hab. N. America, (fossil.) 



— C. tenuistria, Lamk. Lamk. v, 1848, Is Venus Chinensis, 

 Chemn, 



93. C. trapeziformis , d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 



Venus trapeziformis, Roemer. Oolit. 109, pi. vii. f. 14. 1836, 

 Hab. Germany, (fossil,) 

 — C. triangularis, Turt. Brit, bivalves, 136, pi, xi, f, 19, 20, 1822, 



Is Circe minima. 

 — C. tridacnoides, Lamk, Lamk. v, 1818. Is Venus deformis, 



Say. 

 — C. trigona, d'Orb. Prod. 2. 1850. Is Corbicula triang ula, 



Prime. 

 — C, tumida, Nyst, Coq. Tert, Belg. 148, pi. x, f. 1. 1835-1843. Is 



Cyprina r u s t i c a , Fleming. 

 — C. umbonaria, Lamk. Lamk. v. 1818. Is Venus umbonaria. 

 — C. vetusta, Roemer, 25, pi. vi. f. 1843. Is Cardinia vetusta, 



d'Orbigny. 



94. C. Vieilbancii, d'Orb. Prod. 1. 1850. 

 Hab. France, (fossil.) 



— C. vulgaris, Sowb. Gen. of Shells. Is Cyprina I s 1 a n d i c a. Lam. 



Synopsis of the Subfamily of CLTJFEIN.S, with descriptions of new Genera. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



To enable the reader to better understand the descriptions of the new genera 

 to be now proposed, we give the characters of the groups of the Clupeiaae as 

 understood by us, and a synopsis of all the known genera. 



The family of Glupeoids, as restricted by the learned French icthyologist who 

 has so well continued the great ichthyological work planned by Cuvier, is one 

 of the most natural in the animal kingdom. There is none that exhibits greater 

 variety of dentition ; none in which such variation is accompanied by so little 

 difference of form or anatomical peculiarities. In the group of the true 

 Herrings or Chipece, as we shall restrict it, there are included seventeen dis- 



1861,] 




34 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



tinct genera, which are almost entirely characterized by the different combina- 

 tions, of teeth on th-^ jaws and in the mouth, or the entire absence of them. 

 There is no essential difference in the form of those teeth, and from their rela- 

 tive positions alone are the genera distinguished. We find in the subfamily 

 almost every variety of dentition : almost all possible combinations from that 

 exhibited by the genus Rogenii, of which the famous white bait of the English, 

 is the type, to the genus of the Shads, in which there are no teeth in any part 

 of the mouth. In Rogmia, we find teeth, more or less developed, on every bone 

 that enters into the composition of the mouth, as well as on the tongue. There 

 lire vomerine, palatine, pterygoid and lingual teeth, and there are also less 

 developed intermaxillary, supramaxillary and mandibular ones. In Clupea or 

 the herrings, and in Clupeoides of Bleelier, and Uarengula of Valenciennes, the 

 dentition is almost as full ; perhaps more perfect in the last, if we regard the 

 size or development of the teeth. There is in each of those genera an absence 

 of teeth on one set of the bones which enter into the composition of the mouth : 

 all the others are provided with teeth as in Rogenia, but stronger on the jaws. 

 In Harengula, the deficiency is of vomerine teeth : in Clupeoides, of maxillary,* 

 and in the herrings, the pterygoid bones are deAitute. In the last group the 

 palatine bones have also only a few isolated ones on the outside, and these 

 being readily deciduous, may be easily overlooked. From the herrings, we 

 pass by Kowala, Spratelloides and Sardinella of Valenciennes, and our genera 

 Alausella and Pomolobus to Spratella, in which there are teeth only on the 

 palatines and tongue; Meletla, in which the tongue alone is furnished, and 

 finally to Alausa of Valenciennes, and Brevoortia of Gill, in which all the bones, 

 as well as the tongue, are edentulous. Notwithstanding this variation of den- 

 tition, so uniform is the shape of the body ; so little modification is there of 

 any other part or member, that we might, perliaps with propriety, if we did 

 not look to the dentition, unite them all in one great genus. The only very 

 sensible variation from the type as exhibited in the herring, is that which has 

 furnished us with the genus Brevoortia. This genus, established on the well 

 known and very abundant " Morsebunker" or " menhaden" of our eastern coast, 

 is distinguished from almost all of its associates, by the large head, and the 

 more backward position of the dorsal fin, which is situated over the interval 

 between the ventral fins and the anal. These variations, in connection with the 

 ciliated or deeply pectinated posterior margins of the scales, have appeared to 

 us to be of generic importance. On that genus we have bestowed the name of 

 Brevoortia, in honor of Mr. J. Carson Brevoort, the well known ichthyologist of 

 New York. 



In the subfamily of the Clupeince, we include both Pellona of Valenciennes, 

 and Pristigaster of Ciivier, in a distinct group ; these genera are distinguished 

 from the true herrings, by the long anai fin, and in Pellona by generally more 

 anterior position of the ventrais ; the dorsal is usually situated nearer to 

 the former than to the latter. As there is no gradation between the long anal 

 of the Pellona and Pristigastcrs to the short one of the true herrings, and as the 

 difference of the length gives a peculiar facies to each group, the section sfi 

 distinguished appears to be natural. For the present at least, we may retain 

 Pellona and Pristigaster together, notwithstanding the want of ventral fins in 

 the latter. For the group thus formed we may employ the name of Pello7i«. 



In retaining Valenciennes' name of Pellona for the group which he so designa- 

 ted, we are well aware that he had been anticipated by both Swainson and 

 Gray, or rather Richardson. The former naturalise has characterized, as well 

 at least as was customary with him in ichthyology, the genus to which he gave 

 the name of Platijgaster. That name we are prevented from employing, as it 

 had been previously applied by Latreille to a valid genus of Hymenopterous in- 

 ^ — . t 



*There are at least none mentioned as being present in the supramaxillary bones, by 

 Bleeker, to whom we are indebted for our knowledge of the genus. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 35 



sects, and it had also been used by Zetterstedt for a genus of Diptera, at nearly 

 the same period as S^vainsoa. A species of the same genus is also described by 

 Sir John Richardson, in his Report " on the Ichthyology of the seas of China and 

 Japan," as Ilisha ahnormis. This name is attributed to Gray in a British 

 Museum catalogue ; we have never seen a catalogue in which the name occurs. 

 It was, indeed, probably manuscript : we do not therefore know what Dr. Gray 

 intended by the name. As Richardson suggests, the name appears to be 

 "evidently taken from the specific appellation of one of Buchanan Hamilton's 

 Cliipea.'^ But the Clupea ilisha of that naturalist is a true Alausa. If that species 

 was intended by Gray as the type of his genus, it should be regarded as a mere 

 synonyme of Alausa. If, however, the generic name of Ilisha was first pub- 

 lished by Richardson, perhap, it will have to be retained in his name, for 

 either the whole genus, or that section inhabiting the old world, and embracing 

 species whose body is more slender, and which have a less gibbous abdomen 

 than the species of South America. As Valenciennes was the first to well re- 

 strict the genus and illustrate its affinities, we prefer to modify his generic 

 name for the subfamily. 



Group CLUPEA Gill. 



Anal fin little longer than high, commencing some distance behind the ver- 

 tical of the posterior rays of the dorsal, and nearly intermediate between the 

 ventral and caudal fins. 



A. 

 With no spurious dorsal or anal fins. 



Genus I. Clupea (Linn.) Yal. 



Sijn. Clupea Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 28, 1847. 



Body elongated and slender. Minute teeth on the intermaxillaries and near 

 the symphysis of the dentaries. Supra-maxillaries delicately crenulated. More 

 evident teeth in a longitudinal band on the vomer, and on the tongue. Several 

 readily deciduous teeth on the external borders of the palatines. 



Type. Clupea harengus Linn. 

 Syn. Clupea harengus Val. Hist. N. des Poissons, vol. xx., 30. 



Genus II. Sardinella Val. 



Syn. Sardinella Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 28, 1847. 



Body elongated and slender. Minute villiform teeth on the anterior extremity 

 of the palatine bones, on the internal borders of the pterygoids, and on the 

 tongue. Supramaxillaries occasionally scarcely crenulated near the extremities. 



Type. Sardinella aurita Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 263. 



Genus III. Rogenia Val. 



Syn. Rogenia Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tol. xx., p. 340, 1847. 



Body elongated and slender. Very minute and almost imperceptible teeth 

 on the intermaxillaries and dentaries ; stronger ones on the vomer, palatines, 

 pterygoids and tongue. 



Type. Rogenia alba Val. 

 Syn. Clupea alba Yarrcll. 



Genus IV. Cldpeonia Val. 



Syn. Clupeonia Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 345. 



Teeth only on the pterygoids, and in a longitudinal band on the tongue. 



Type. Clupeonia Jussieni Val. 

 Syn. Clupanodon Jussieui Lac. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. v, pp. 471, 474. 



1861.] 




36 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Genus V. Harengula Val. 



Syn. Harengula Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx. p. 277, 1847. 



Body elongated and slender. Minute teeth on theintermaxillaries, dentaries, 

 palatines, pterygoids and tongue. Bupramaxillaries scarcely crenulated. 



Type. Harengula latula Val. 



Genus VI. Cldpeoides Bleeker. 



Sijn. Clupeoides Bleeker, Naturkundig Tijdschrift wor Nederlandsch Indie, vol. 

 i. p. 274. 



Body elongated and slender. Minute teeth on theintermaxillaries, dentaries, 

 vomer, palatines, pterygoids and tongue. 



Type. Clupeoides borneensis Bleeker. 



Genus VII. Spratelloides Bleeker. 



Syn. Spratelloides Bleeker, Naturkundig Tijdschrift wor Nederlandsch Indie, 

 vol. ix. p. 775. 

 Teeth on the intermaxillaries, dentaries, vomer and tongue. 

 Type. Spratelloides argyrotaenia Bleeker. 



Genus VIII. Spratella Val. 



Syn. Spratella Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 356. 



Body elongated and slender. Teeth only on the palatine bones and tongue. 

 Type. Spratella pumila Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 357, 1857. 



Genus IX. Kowala Val. 



Syn. Kowala Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 362. 

 Body elliptical. Teeth only on the javrs and pterygoids. 

 Type. Kowala albella Val. 



Genus X. Alausella Gill. 



Syn. Alausella Gill, Proceed. 



Body oblong, ovate. Teeth in the intermaxillaries and dentaries scattered 

 near the symphisis, and on the tongue. Supramaxillaries finely dentated. 



Type. Alausella parvula Gill. 

 Syn. CI u pea parvula Mitchill. 



Genus XI. Pomolobus (Raf.) Gill. 



Syn. Pomolobus Raf. Ichthyologia Ohiensis, p. 38, (fide Kirtland.) 

 Body elongated and slender. Teeth on the intermaxillaries, behind which, 



the gums are transversely and slightly sulcated. Few teeth at the symphysis 



of the lower jaw. Tongue with viliform teeth. 



Type. Pomolobus chrysochloris Storer ex Kirtland. 



Syn. Alosa chrysochloris Kirtland. 



Genus XII. Clupalosa Bleeker. 



Syn. Clupalosa Bleeker, Verhandelingen von het Bataviaasch Genootschap, 

 vol. xxii., Tchth. Mad., pp. 12, 24. 

 Teeth only on the palatine bones. Lower jaw scarcely denticulated. 

 Type. Clupalosa bulan. 



Genus XIII. Meletta Val. 



Syn. Meletta Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 366. 



Teeth only in a longitudinal row on the tongue. Dorsal fin with no produced 

 posterior ray. 



Type. Meletta vulgaris Val. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Genus XIV. Opisthonema Gill. 



Syn. Clupanodon Lac, parlim, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. 



Body oblong oval. Teeth in a longitudinal row on the tongue. Dorsal fin 

 with its last ray filiform. 



Type. Opisthonema thrissa Gill. 

 Syn. Clupanodon thrissa Lac. 



Genus XV. Alausa (Cuv.) Val. 



Syn, Alosa Cuv. Regne Animal 



Alausa Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons. vol. xx., p. 389. 



Teeth absent, or only some small and easily caducous ones on the jaws. 

 Scales not pectinated. Dorsal fin over the ventrals. Head of moderate size. 



Type. Alausa vulgaris Cuv. 

 Syn. Alausa vulgaris Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 391. 



Genus XVI. Brevoortia Gill. ' 



Syn, Brevoortia Gill. 



Teeth absent. Scales pectinated on their' posterior margins. Dorsal fin 

 nearly over the interval botween the ventrals and anal. Head very large. 



Type. Brevoortia menhaden Gill. 

 Syn. Alausa menhaden Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx., p. 424. 



B. 

 Provided with true and spurious anal fins, entirely distinct from each 

 other; the former of the normal size; the latter with two or more thick and 

 well developed rays. 



Genus XVII. Clopeichthys Bleeker. 



Syn. Clupeichthys Bleeker, Naturkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, 

 vol. ix., p. 274, 1855. 



Intermaxillary bones prominent; the lower little longer than the upper, con- 

 spicuous teeth on the intermaxillary, supramaxillary, palatine and pterygoid 

 bones, and in a median longitudinal band on the tongue. 



A single species is found in the rivers of the island of Sumatra.* 



Type. Clupeichthys goniognathus Bleeker. 



Group PELLONJa Gill. 



Anal fin elongated, commencing under or anterior to the last rays of the dor- 

 sal, and near the ventrals. 



a. Ventral fins present, and situated anterior to or under the first rays of the 

 dorsal fin. 



Genus XVIII. Pellona Val. 



Syn. Platygaster Swainson, Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians and Rep- 

 tiles, vol. ii. p. 294, 1839. (Not Platygaster LalreiUe.) 



Ilisha (Gray,) Richardnon, Fifteenth Aunual Report of the Britiih Associa- 

 tion. A.S., 



Pellona Cuv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx. p. 301. 



Body compressed, varying in form; in the typical species, the abdomen is 



*Buchanan Hamilton, in his " Account of the Fishes found in the river Ganges and its 

 branches," p. 236, has described a Clupeoid which has also two fins, the last provided 

 with four rays, but there are said to be no teeth. It has been referred to a new genus 

 and called Corica sobiona. If it is true that there are no teeth, the species can not be 

 congeneric with Clupeicfithys goniognathus. '1 he work of Hamilton is not at present 

 accessible to us. 



1861.] 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY 01" 



very convex, but in most, the shape resembles that of the true Clupeoids. 

 Bands of teeth on the intermaxillary, maxillary, dentary, palatine and pterygoid 

 bones, and on the tongue, most of which are very small and almost impercep- 

 tible. 



The genus is represented by species in the rivers and seas of South America, 

 Asia and Africa. Those of South America have the abdomen very convex ; in 

 those of the Old World, it is much less so. 



Type. Pellona Orbignyana Val. 



b. Ventral fins absent. 



Genus XIX. Pristigastek Cuv. 



Sji/n. Pristigaster Ctiv. Regne Animal, vol. ii. 



Pristigaster Val. Hist. Nat. des Polssons, vol. xx. p. 326. 



Body compressed, with the back slightly arched, and with the abdomen very 

 convex, and strongly serrated. Teeth present on the intermaxillary, maxillary, 

 dentary, palatine and pterygoid bones, as well as on the tongue. Dorsal fin 

 higher than long, situated on the anterior half of the back. Lateral line 

 straight. 



The genus as now restricted contains only the South American species, dis- 

 tinguished by the scarcely arched back and very convex belly. The Indian 

 species belong to another genus. 



Type. Pristigaster cay an us Cuv. 



Genus XX. Opisthopterus Gill. 



Syn.1 Apterygia Gray, Illustrations of Indian Zoology. 



Pristigaster sp. Val., Hist, Nat. des Poissons, vol. xx. 



Body compressed with the nape saillient, and the back convex; the abdomen 

 convex, and strongly serrated. Teeth present on the intermaxillary, maxillary, 

 dentary, palatine and pterygoid bones, and on the tongue. Dorsal fin low and 

 small, situated at the end of the second third of the back's length. 



Type. Opisthopterus tartoor Gill. 

 Syn. Pristigaster tartoor Val., Hist. Xat. des Poissons, vol. xx. p. 328. 



Descriptions of Twenty-five New Species of TJNIONID.S: from Georgia, 

 Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee and riorida. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio FABACEua. — Testa l?evi, oblonga, subquadrata, subinflata, postice sub- 

 bianguhua, subaequilaterali ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; nati- 

 bus prominulis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, micante, obsolete radiata ; denti- 

 bus cardinalibus parvis, erectis, acuminatis, crenulatis ; lateralibus curtis, la- 

 mellatis subcurvisque ; margarita purpurascente, salmonis colore tincta et 

 valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Oostanaula River, Georgia. Bishop Elliott. 



Unio irrasus. — Testa laevi, rotundo-trigona, iiiflala, postice obtuse angulata, 

 antice rotunda; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; natibus subelevatis, 

 crassis ; epidermide luteo-fusca, vel obsolete radiata vel eradiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus crassis, elevatis, subcompressis crenulatisque; lateralibus curtis, 

 crassis, obliquis rectisque : margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Etowah River, Georgia. Rev. G. White. 



Unio Ocmulo^ensis. — Testa Isevi, transversa, inflata, postice obtuse biangu- 

 Jata, antice subtruncata, valde iucequilaterali ; valvulis crassis, antice crassi- 

 oribus; natibus prominulis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, eradiata, superne 

 micantej inferne valde striata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, pyramidatis 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



striatisque ; lateralibus prcelongis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita argen- 

 tea et iridescente. 

 Hab. — Little Ocmulgee River, Lumber City, Georgia. S. W. Wilson, M. D. 



Unio cicuRi — Testa Isevi, oblonga, subinflata, ad latere subplaculata, postice 

 rotundata, valde inaequilateraii ; valvulis tenuibus subdiaphanis ; natibus sub- 

 promiDeutibus, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide olivacea, eradiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parvissimis, corapressis subrectisque ; lateralibus longis, praetenuis, 

 lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita caerulea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Little Ocmulgee River, Georgia. S. W. Wilson, M. D. 



Unio crapulus. — Testa Isevi, obliqua, ventiicosa, ad umbones valde tumida, 

 valde inaequilateraii, postice rotundata, antice truncata; valvulis percrassis, 

 antice crassioribus; natibus valde prominentibus crassisque; epidermide luteo- 

 fusca, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus percrassis, pyramidatis, corrugatis, in 

 utroque valvulo duplicibus; lateralibus percrassis, corrugatis, obliquis sub- 

 curvisque ; margarita alba et paulisper iridescente. 



Hab. — Etowah River, Georgia. Rev, G. White. 



Unio Beadleianus. — Testa lajvi, subrotunda, ventrlcosa, subgequilaterali, 

 antice rotundata, postice obtuse angulata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus, 

 natibus subelevatis, incurvis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, obsolete radiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus magnis, erectis, compressis corrugatisque ; lateralibus 

 crassis, curtis corrugatisque ; margarita vel alba vel rosea, et iridescente. 



Hab. — Pearl River, Jackson, Mississippi. Rev. E. R. Beadle. 



Unio Chickasawhensis. — Testa, laevi, subrotunda, subcompressa, sublenticu- 

 lari, iDcequilaterali, postice obtuse ans^ulata, antice rolunda ; valvulis crassius- 

 culis, antice paulisper crassioribus; natibus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso- 

 fusca, eradiata, excillissime striata. ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculi?, pyra- 

 midatis, corrugatis crenulatisque ; lateralibus brevibus, subvalidis subcurvis- 

 que ; margarita rosacea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Chickasawha River, Mississippi. W. Spillman, M. D. 



Unio cinnamomicus. — Testa Ijevi, elliptica, inflata, ad umbones tumida, in- 

 ajquilaterali, postice angulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subcrassis, antic^ cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus subprominentibus ; epidermide cinnamomica, inferne striata, 

 eradiata, dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, erectis, subcompressis crenulatisque, 

 lateralibus curtis subrectisque ; margarita albida et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Tombigbee River, Columbus, Missis, ippi. W. Spillman, M. D. 



Unio pauperculds. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, subcompressa, subequilaterali, 

 postice subrotunda. antice rotunda; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus prominulis; epidermide iuteo-cornea, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus mag- 

 nis, elevatis, decussatis ; lateralibus brevissimis, obliquis rectisque ; margarita. 

 alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Stream near Columbus, Mississippi. W. Spillman, M. D. 



Unio Spillmanii, — Testa, laevi, elliptica, subinflata, inaquilaterali, postice ob- 

 tuse angulata, antice rotundata; valvulis subcrassis, antice paulisper crassiori- 

 bus; natibus prominulis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca vel luteo-fuscii, ad um- 

 bones nitida, radiata; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, obtuse pyramidatis, 

 corrugatis; lateralibus longis, crassis corrugatisque; margarita vel alba vel 

 salmonis colore tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Luxpalila Creek, near Columbus, Mississippi. W. Spillman, M. D. 



Unio flavidulus. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subinflata, valde infequilaterali, pos- 

 tice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice crassioribus ; 

 natibus prominulis ; epidermide vel luteo-fusca vel luteo-viridi, eradiata ; den- 

 tibus cardinalibus parviusculis, erectis, compressis, in utroque valvulo duplici- 



1861.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



bus ; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatU subrectisque ; margarita alba et irides- 

 cente. 

 Hab. — Stream near Columbus, Mississippi. W. Spillaoan, M. D. 



Unio anaticulus. — Testa lasvi, obliqua, ad umbones valde tumida, antice 

 truncata, postice obtuse angulata, valde inaequilaterali ; valvulis crassiusculis, 

 antice crassioribus ; natibus elevatis, crassis, incurvis, fere terminalibus ; epi- 

 dermide castanea, vittata, obsolete radiata, dentibus cardinalibus subcrassis, 

 subpyramidatis crenulatisque; lateralibus crassis, obliquis subrectisque; mar- 

 garita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Near Columbus, Mississippi. W. Spillman, M. D. 



Unio rubious. — Testa sulcata, subtrianguUri, valde inflata, ad latere planu- 

 lata, subaequilaterali, valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; natibus subpro- 

 minentibus, subinflatis; epidermide tenebroso-rufo-fusca, eradiata, superne mi- 

 canti, inferne striata; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, elevatis, subpj'rami- 

 datis crenulatisque ; lateralibus sublongis, curvis subcrassisque ; margarita 

 vel rosacea vel alba vel salmonis colore tincta et iridescente. 



Hab. — Tombigbee River, Mississippi. W. Spillman, M. D, ; Coosa River and 

 Big Prairie Creek, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio decumbens. — Testa laevi, arcuata, valde compressa, ad latere planulata, 

 inaequilaterali, postice biangulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subtenuibus, antice 

 et postice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso-rufo- 

 fusca, obsolete radiata, transverse striata ; dentibus cardinalibus minimis, sub- 

 compressis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus prifilongis, arcuatis ; 

 margarita purpurascente, et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio oermanus. — Testa kevi, elliptica, subinflata, inaequilaterali, postice sub- 

 biangulata. antice rotunda; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; natibus 

 subprominentibus, ad apices concentrice rugoso-undulatis ; epidermide tene- 

 broso-fusca, eradiata, transverse striata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, erectis, 

 compressis, creuulaus, acuminatis ; lateralibus tenuibus subcurvisque; mar- 

 garita purpurascente et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio Lewisii. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, suborbiculari, subsequilaterali ; val- 

 vulis crassissimis, antice crassioribus; natibus elevatis, tumidis incurvisque ; 

 epidermide luteola, punctata; dentibus cardinalibus crassissimis, erectis crenu- 

 litisque ; lateralibus crassissimis, brevibus et obliquis; margarita alba et irides- 

 cente. 

 Hab, — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio medius. — Testa laevi, obliqua, valde inflata, valde inaquilaterali, postice 

 obtuse angulaia, antice oblique rotundala ; valvulis crassis, postice crassiori- 

 bus ; natibus elevatis, tumidis; epidermide fusca, maculata, inferne striata, 

 superne micanti ; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, pyraraidatis crenulatisque; 

 lateralibus crassis, rectis brevibusque ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Near Uniontown, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio concolor. — Testd Isevi, oblique e'lipticii, subinflata, inaequilaterali, 

 postice subbiangulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus subprominentibus; epidermide tenebroso-oliva, eradiata, ad umbones 

 nitida, inferne striata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, erectis, obtuse com- 

 pressis; lateralibus sublongis, obliquis subrectisque ; margarita alba et irides- 

 cente. 



//a6.— Big Prairie Creek, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio verus. — Testa Isevi, subtriangnlari, subcompressa, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice fere rotunda, antice rotunda; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassiori- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



bus ; natibus elevatis ; epidermide tenebroso-oliva, eradiata, maculata, vittata, 

 ad umbones micanti, inferae striata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, cotn- 

 presso-pyramidatis striatisque ; lateralibus, subbrevibus, obliquis subrectisque ; 

 margarita alba et iridescente. 

 Hab. — Cahawba River, Perry Co., Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio asperatus. — Testa valde tuberculata, subrotuada, iaflata, antice et 

 postice rotunda, subequilaterali ; valvulis crassis, aatice crassioribus ; natibus 

 valde prominentibus ; epidermide rufo-lutea, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus 

 percrassis, obtuso-conicis, corrugatis ; lateralibus brevissimis, valde obliquis 

 rectisque ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Alabama River, Claiborne, Alabama. Judge Tait. 



Unio ornatus. — Testa leevi, subrotunda, compressa, inaequilaterali, postice 

 Subrotunda, antice rotunda ; valvuiis crassiusculis, aatice crassioribus ; nati- 

 bus subprominentibus, ad apices rugoso-undulatis ; epidermide mellea, viridi 

 maculata, superne nitida, inferae striata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, 

 sulcatis ; lateralibus brevibus, obliquis rectisque; margarita, argentea et valde 

 iridescente. 



^ai.— Alabama ? T. R. Ingalls, M. D. 



Unio perpurporeus, — ^Testa lavi, elliptica, subiaflata, iaaequilaterali, postice 

 et antice rotuodata; valvuiis subcrassis, aatice crassioribus; natibus promi- 

 nulia ; epidermide tenebroso-viridi, nigricente, radiis capillaris ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parviusculis, erectis, conicis,in utroque valvulo duplicibus, striatis; 

 lateralibus longis rectisque ; margarita valde purpurea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Tennessee. J. G. Anthony. 



Unio Anthonyi. — Testa l»vi, elliptica, iaflata, ad latere f)laniuscula, postice 

 obtuse biangulata, postice rotundata, inajquilaterali ; valvuiis subtenuibus, 

 antice paulisper crassioribus; natibus promiaulis ; epidermide luteo-oliva, 

 eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, obliquis, subcompressis crenulatisque ; 

 lateralibus longis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita cseruleo-alba et irides- 

 cente. 



Hab. — Florida. J. G. Anthony. 



Margaritana quadrata. — Testa laevi, oblonga, subcompressa, ad latere 

 planulata, subEequilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda ; valvuiis 

 subtenuibus, antice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus prorainulis, ad apices un- 

 dulatis; epidermide luteola, viridi-radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandi- 

 bus, obliquis, compressis, triangularis, erectis subcurvisque ; margariia alba, 

 superne salmonis colore tincta, et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — East Tennessee, President Estabrook. 



Margaritana Alabamensis. — Testa laevi, oblonga, inflata, ad latere paulisper 

 planulata, inaequilaterali, postice obtuse biangulata, antice oblique rotundata ; 

 valvuiis subcrassis, antice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus promiaulis, ad apices 

 rugoso undulatis; epidermide luteo-oliva, polita, eradiata ; dentibus cardinali- 

 bus parvis, suberectis ; margarita alba et salmooia et iridescente. 



Hab. — Talladega Creek, Alabama. W. Spillman, M. D. 



Descriptions of New Becent Shells from the Coast of South Carolina. 

 BY EDMUND EAVENEL, M, D. 

 COLUMBELLA SIMILIS. 



This has generally been considered the young or immature shell of " C. 

 avara." The avara is a larger shell, and his fewer and much larger ribs at the 

 upper portion of the body whorl. It has about 11 ribs; whereas this shell has 

 often as many as 20 ribs, but the number varies. The avara never has all of the 



1861.] 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



whorls decidedly ribbed ; the larger ribs are usually confined to the body whorl, 

 sometimes extending to the second; but above this, there is a space embracing 

 one or more whorls, which is smooth or slightly wrinkled, and the two or 

 three upper whorls are regularly ribbed to the apex. With the " similis," the 

 ribs on the body whorl are more numerous, smaller and more regular generally, 

 and occupy more of the whorl, and generally all of the whorls are regularly 

 ribbed to the apex. The general appearance of the two shells differs, one 

 being always smaller than the other. The revolving striae are very similar in 

 the two shells ; the same may be said of the coloring, the " similis" being the 

 most prettily mottled. It must, however, be acknowledged, that the two run 

 into each other so nearly, that occasionally, it is not easy to determine a speci- 

 men. The uncertainty is increased by the difficulty in following up a series 

 from the very young to the mature state of either. I have not been able to 

 compare the animals ; common on the coasts of North and South Carolina. 



COLUMBELLA TRAN'SLIRATA. 



Shell elevated, conical, sharp at the apex ; whorls nine, nearly flat, rather 

 closely ribbed, ribs and interspaces about equal, with five equidistant revolving 

 strife, from the anterior canal to the apex. Upon the upper whorls, one line is 

 lost at the suture, where the whorls seem to overlap as they ascend ; the body 

 whorl is much the largest, and is angulated from opposite the posterior end of 

 the aperture, revolving to near the centre of the outer lip ; to this angle the 

 ribs are half the number that are upon the whorl immediately above, and at 

 the suture are nodulous ; the nodules being generally white, give a decided 

 character to the shell. Below this angle the ribs are much less decided, and 

 again resume their original number, and by holding the canal towards the eye, 

 the intermediate rib can be traced, running up between the larger ones, 

 gradually becoming; obsolete ; and below this angle the revolving striae become 

 more numerous and more decided, crossing the ribs so as to produce a reticu- 

 lated appearance, except as they approach the end of the anterior canal, where 

 the ribs cease and the revolving striae alone are to be seen. 



Aperture moderate, oblong, rather narrow, very little hollowed on the pillar 

 lip; pillar callus with obsolete denticulations; outer lip not decidedly thickened, 

 denticulate slightly within. 



Color varying from a light straw to a dark brown, with the ends of the ribs 

 at the suture of the body whorl and at the angle on this whorl, white. Some 

 of the specimens have blotches of white, which give the whole shell a mottled 

 appearance. It is larger than C. avara Say, being nearly an inch in length. 

 This shell and " C. similis," are allied to " C. avara," but are very distinct. 

 They belong to the group of which C. avara Say is the type. 



From the stomachs of fish off Charleston bar, and is more abundant than any 

 species obtained from this source as yet. Dr. Stimpson found it at Beaufort, 

 X. C. 



COLDMBELLA lONTHA. 



Shell fusiform, strong, small, with nine flat, ribbed whorls, white, with 

 brown blotches and lines. Suture deep and distinct, both the upper and lower 

 edges of the whorls being chamfered ; the ribs on the body whorl near the 

 aperture less distinct than on other parts of the shell ; anterior portion of this 

 whorl with numerous revolving striae ; these impressed striae give place to 

 colored lines as they ascead, and these are continued more or less distinct to 

 the apex, being visible only as they cross the ribs and not in the intermediate 

 spaces, except here and there, where being more deeply colored and descend- 

 ing between the ribs, produce the blotches which mark the shell. 



The aperture is small, rather wide in proportion, the pillar lip much hollowed 

 above, suddenly becoming straight to form the canal ; outer lip considerably 

 enlarged, denticulated sparsely within ; length a little over J of an inch. 



This is a very pretty little shell, allied to the group which embraces 



TFeb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 43 



C. pulchella Sow. and C. Jaspidea Sow., of West Indies ; this species being more 

 elongated. 



A single specinaen obtained from the stomach of a blackSsh, off Charleston 

 bar. 



COLUMBELLA XIVEA. 



Shell small, delicate, elongated-conic, white, immaculate, smooth, polished, 

 prettily striated on the outer part of the canal, lower whorl longer than the 

 spire, suture distinct, with oae white revolting line a little below it on the 

 whorls, like a double suture; pillar covered with callus, much hollowed, sud- 

 denly becoming straight to form the canal ; callus ends in a distinct edge ; 

 outer lip a little thickened, sparsely denticulated within, the posterior tooth 

 being decidedly the most prominent. 



This is a pretty little shell, allied to Buccinum rosaceum Gould, and C. lunata 

 Say. 



A single specimen was taken from the stomach of a fish off Charleston bar. 



Nassa. consensa. 



Shell ovate-conical, ribbed and crossed by numerous revolving striae ; whorls 

 7, and the apex ; whorls rounded, with eleven strong ribs ; suture deep. Scol- 

 loped by the ribs ; revolving stride crossing the ribs, as well as the interstitial 

 spaces. 



Aperture nearly oval, outer lip much thickened, denticulate within, the lar- 

 gest tooth being in the form of a ridge ; next the canal ; pillar much hollowed ; 

 with slight callus above, which is much thickened to form the canal, canal 

 short oblique, turned backwards ; the lower portion of the pillar which turns 

 out of the aperture to form the canal is quite white with crowded, incon- 

 spicuous, revolving strice ; on the pillar at the edge of the canal there is one 

 deep groove. 



Color of the shell generally yellowish-brown, with a narrow deep brown 

 band immediately next the white projection at the canal ; next to this, on the 

 body whorl, is a much wider band of lighter brown, which revolves at the 

 suture to the apex of the shell ; all other portions of the shell are marked by 

 delicate lines more or less grouped, of yellowish-brown. On the thickened 

 portion of the outer lip these lines are here and there more deeply colored in 

 spots. 



This is a very pretty shell ; a single specimen was found in a fish off Charles- 

 ton bar ; 14 fathoms. 



It resembles N, incrassata of England, and we have seen it iu collections 

 labelled "iV. ambiyua Moret, West Indies." 



Deilla elozantha. 



Shell robust, conico-cylindrical, with ten whorls, which are bi-carinate, by 

 being deeply grooved imraediatelj- above the suture, and again in the upper 

 half of the whorl. The ridge left between these grooves is ornamented by ten 

 strong, yellow, smooth, shining tubercles; the upper edge of the whorl is 

 again bevelled, forming the second carina, which is not at all nodulous. 

 Below the nodulous carena on the body whorl, there are obsolete ribs, crossed 

 by four nodulous ridges, the first touching the tubercles of the principal carina; 

 below these there are eight others, some of which are obscurely nodulous ; on 

 all parts of the shell not occupied by the tubercles or carina, there are numer- 

 ous fine equidistant striae, requiring the glass to bring them to view. 



The aperture small, outer line made oblique by the deep sinus of the thick 

 outer lip, just below the suture ; the pillar is nearly straight, with a strong 

 callus, the edge of which is thick and well defined. 



Color deep brown, generally, becoming a little lighter from the tubercles to 

 the suture, embracing the upper carina; near the extremity of the canal there 

 is a lighter colored band, taking in three of the ridges; beyond that to the 

 extremity is again almost black. This shell is allied to the " /*. ornaia" 

 1861.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



d'Orbigny ; the ornata has 12 tubercles, the whorls, " bipartitis, aatice, albidis, 

 postice, zona, fulva notatis." The figure corresponds less than the description, 

 with the present species. 



Obtained from stomachs offish off Charleston bar; the three specimens found 

 correspond accurately ; all dead. 



M. d'Orbigny describes another species of this group " P. albo-maculaia," 

 but it cannot be confounded with the others. 



LlOCARDIUM PICTUM. 



Shell ovate, triangular, very oblique somewhat compressed, smooth, polished, 

 with a few obsolete ribs at each end, and obsoletely waved by the lines of 

 growth; beaks small, prominent, nearly touching, very much in advance of the 

 centre, anterior end short, regularly curved, posterior end produced, somewhat 

 angular. 



Color reddish-brown, in zig-zag spots and blotches upon a white ground. 

 Internally polished, of a reddish-brown, clouded, with some patches of yellow, 

 and a little white, with obscure ribs, which become more conspicuous near 

 the margin, crenulating the entire margin. 



Length 0*78 in., breadth 0-7 in. 

 ■ This is a very pretty shell, much more compressed, a little thicker and 

 stronger than " C. Mortoni." Taken from the stomachs of fish off Charleston 

 bar. Many imperfect specimens were obtained ; the gastric fluids seem to act 

 readily upon it and remove the polish and color very soon ; many of the valves 

 were still held together by the ligament, wh»n the substance of the shell was 

 almost destroyed. It is more oblique than L. serratum. 



LiTHODOMUS FORFICATUS, 



Shell thin, fragile, white ; from about the middle to the anterior end covered 

 with a thin calcareous coat ; from this to the posterior end quite white. Beaks 

 very near the anterior end, but not terminal ; posterior end produced, much 

 elongated, terminating in a narrow projection on each valve, from the double 

 margin on one valve and from the basal margin on the others so arranged that 

 when the shell is closed, these projections cross each other, resembling some- 

 what the claw of a crab. Anterior end round, and when the shell is closed it 

 is cylindrical from the anterior end as far as an angle on the dorsal margin, 

 just posterior to the termination of the ligament; from this point it tapers 

 gradually to the end of the shell proper, where the projections are formed by the 

 sudden scooping out of the valves, the one above and the other below. 



Within light, salmon color, shining and iridescent, the projecting points 

 are entirely white. 



This interesting shell was found imbedded in a mass of coral drawn up by a 

 fishing line from the " Blackfish Banks," off Charleston bar, 14 fathoms. There 

 was quite a colony of them in the thicker part of the coral, most of them small, 

 about h inch ; the largest specimen removed was about 1^ inch. The shell was 

 completely imbedded in a cavity of its exact form, only a little larger, quite 

 smooth within, communicating with the exterior by a small, short, open tube, 

 through which the white points protruded. Upon breaking open the cavity, the 

 shell was found attached by a byssus. 



Synopsis of the Subfamily of PERCIN.ffi. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The present synopsis of the fishes of the subfamily of PeTcince has resulted 

 from the investigations made of the comparative characters of the genera and 

 species of Lahraces. It was originally prepared for Captain J. H. Simpson's 

 forthcoming report of his Explorations across the continent in the years 1858 — 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



1859, but it has been deemed advisable to have it published in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy. 



The family of Percoids, as finally restricted by Cuvier in the second edition 

 of his " Regne Animal," contained too unlike and heterogeneous an assem- 

 blage of genera to be deemed a natural one. The section chiefly embracing 

 the species of the old Linnean genus Perca having seven branchiostegal rays, 

 have a strong family resemblance, with, perhaps, the exception of the genera 

 Apogon and Chilodipterus of Lacepede, Pomatomus of Risso, and Ambassis of 

 Commerson. The last mentioned genera, although placed in the section with 

 two dorsal fins and seven branchiostegal rays, and interposed between genera 

 of the subfamily of Percince as here accepted, do not appear to be very nearly 

 related to those fishes. 



On the other hand, the genera Pomotis Cuv., Centrarchus Cuv., and Dules 

 Cuv. and Val., placed in the section of the family with less than seven bran- 

 chiostegal rays and with a single dorsal fin, appear to be natural allies of 

 the PercincE, but at the same time distinguished by some well marked peculi- 

 arities. 



Of the remaining genera of the Cuvieran Percoids, Cirrhites of Commerson 

 and Chironemus of Cuvier form a natural family, to which should perhaps be 

 also referred the Chilodactyli of Lacepede placed by Cuvier in his family of 

 Scicenoids. 



The Priacanthi of Cuvier appear to be either members of the family of Holo- 

 ce?itroids, or perhaps, more properly, form a family by themselves related to the 

 former. 



The genera Therapon, Datnia, Pelates and Helotes of Cuvier and Valenciennes 

 are also natural associates and belong to a peculiar group. 



The Trichodons of Steller, as well as the Trachini of Linnaeus, should be also 

 withdrawn from the Percoids, and may perhaps belong to one family, for 

 which Bonaparte's name of Trachmoidoe must be retained. 



The genera Percis, Pinguipes, Sillago and Percophis of Cuvier certainly do not 

 belong to the family of Percoids. They seem to be quite nearly allied to each 

 other, and to the Trachinoids. 



The Uranoscopi of Linnsus form a very natural family, whose aflBnities are 

 apparently with the Sclerogenoid Synancheoids and the Blennoids. 



The Holocentri, 3Iyriprisles and Beryces have been by most modern naturalists 

 regarded as belonging to a family quite distinct from the Percoids. To the 

 same family has been also referred the genus Trachichthys of Shaw, but which 

 may possibly also be the type of a distinct but nearly allied family. 



The third division of Cuvier or the abdominal Percoids have also been 

 long since taken from that family and distributed among several distinct 

 ones. 



After these numerous subtractions, the family of Percoids is still one of the 

 richest in genera and species of the class. It is, at the same time, one of the 

 most natural and most universally distributed. Representatives are found in 

 the fresh water streams and lakes, or along the shores of almost every country 

 on the globe, but the family attains its highest development in the tropical 

 seas. So similar are many of the species found in the most distant regions, 

 that the eye of a naturalist accustomed to the examination can alone detect 

 differences. Species of the same genus are found alike on each side of the 

 Atlantic Ocean, in the Caribbean Sea, on the Western coast of tropical 

 America, and on all the coasts of temperate and tropical Asia and Africa. 



While the marine species are thus numerous and similar in the tropical 

 regions of the globe, the fresh water species attain their greatest development 

 in number and variety in the temperate zones. Two genera are represented 

 by closely related species in Europe and North America. Others are peculiar 

 to Europe and are balanced in North America by genera characteristic of that 

 country. The preponderance of both generic types and of species is greatly 



1861.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



in favor of the "New World." The genera thus peculiar to the diflferent 

 countries are not typical members of the family, but always more or less 

 aberrant. In Europe, are found the Acerince represented by the genus Percis 

 of Klein or Accrina of Cuvier ; the Percarinoe represented by a single genu? 

 and species, and the still more aberrant subfamily of Asperulince with the 

 genus Asperulus of Klein or Aiipro of Cuvier. 



As an offsett to the European genera, there is found in the fresh waters of 

 the United States, a subfamily containing eight genera and numerous species. 

 The genera which America shares in common with Europe are also more 

 developed in the former country than in the latter, and there are species of 

 two allied genera of which no representatives are found in Europe. 



It has been already remarked that the family of Percoids is represented in 

 Europe by three peculiar tribes or subfamilies. In North America there are 

 only two. In the number of widely distinct forms, Europe is therefore richer 

 than America. For the differences existing between the Grystince and the 

 Percince can scarcely be considered as of greater value than those between the 

 PercincB on one hand and the AcerincB and Asperuli on the other. The differ- 

 ences between the two latter are equally well defined, and it is perhaps doubt- 

 ful if those genera belong to even the same family as the typical Percoids. 

 But if the family of Percoids has more varied types in the old world, that one 

 found in the new exhibits far more numerous modifications, which indicate 

 generic and specific value. 



We now proceed to exhibit the characters of the subfamily of Percince and 

 give a synopsis of all the known genera. 



Percin^ (Bon.) Gill. 

 The body is elongated or oblong ovate, more or less compressed. The head 

 in profile is more or less elongated, conical and compressed. The eyes mostly 

 or entirely in the anterior half of the head, are generally of large size. The 

 mouth is large or moderate, with the gape extending at least to the anterior 

 margin of the eye. The teeth are generally villiform, rarely canine, and cover 

 the jaws, vomer and palatine bones. The intermaxillary bones have very 

 short ascending processes, and are scarcely protractile. The nostrils are two 

 on each side, forming the angles of a transversely oblong or elongated quad- 

 rangle ; the anterior nostrils are subtubular, and the posterior simple aper- 

 tures. The opercular bones are more or less pectinated or armed with teeth ; 

 the operculum terminates in generally one or more spiniform processes. The 

 branchiostegal membrane is very deeply emarginated, the sinus extending to 

 between the corners of the mouth ; there the membranes of opposite sides 

 appear to be folded across each other, and leave a very narrow free margin : 

 there are seven branchiostegal rays on each side, decreasing in size quite 

 uniformly to the external. The scales are of moderate or small size, and on 

 the trunk are pectinated and with a narrow muricated border ; those on the 

 head are either pectinated or cycloid ; the scales on the cheeks are smallest, 

 and occasionally scarcely perceptible. The dorsals are two in number, and 

 are either entirely disconnected or united at the base by a low membrane : 

 the first dorsal is well developed, and supported by from seven to fifteen 

 spines, the longest of which generally equal the height of the second dorsal. 

 The anal fin is generally shorter than the second dorsal ; it has two or three 

 spines and from six to thirteen branched rays. The pectorals are of small or 

 moderate size, in the normal percoid position on the humeral cincture, and 

 have rounded margins. The ventrals are also of moderate size and situated 

 behind the bases of the pectorals ; they have each one spine and five gradually 

 decreasing branched rays ; the innermost ray is free from the abdomen, or 

 scarcely connected to it by an axillar membrane. 



The subfamily of Percince as thus limited is a very natural one. Its charac- 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 47 



ters in many respects correspond to those of the first group of the Percoids of 

 Giinther, called by him Percina, but several genera are introduced into the 

 latter which destroj^ the natural character of the group. The genus Parala- 

 brax of Girard belongs more properly to the Serranince, as does also Etelis 

 of Cuvier and Valenciennes. On the systematic value of Acerince and Aspro, 

 we have already remarked. Boleosoma and Pileoma of Dekay are certainly not 

 natural members of the Perdnce, nor can they even be properly regarded as 

 belonging to the same family ; they are more nearly allied to the Gobioids. 

 Finally, Eaoplosus of Cuvier appears to be the type of a distinct subfamily. 



The Perdnce^ although represented by many generic forms, are not numer- 

 ous in species. Many of them are found in fresh water, and probably all of 

 them ascend rivers for a short distance, at some period of the year or are 

 found at their mouths. 



The following scheme is supposed to show nearly the natural order and 

 characters of the known genera. As several of them have not been seen by 

 us, we remain in doubt as to their natural position. 



I I. 

 Intermaxillary and palatine bones provided with some large teeth, arranged 

 in rows ; rest of the teeth villiform. Tongue toothless. 



Genus Stizostedion (Raf.) Girard. 



Les Sandres Cmi;., Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. p. 294, . . . 1817. 

 Stizostedion Raf., Ichthyologia Ohiensis, p. 23, . . . . . 1820. 



Lucioperca Cuv. et Vol., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. ii. p. 110, . 1828. 

 Sandrus Stark, Elements of Natural History, vol. i. p. 465, . . . 1828. 



Body slender, elongate-fusiform, covered with scales arranged in oblique 

 rows. Head semiconical, quite broad, with the cheeks and opercula generally 

 covered with scales ; isolated patches of scales on the sides of the posterior 

 part of the head ; rest of the head covered with a naked skin. Preoperculum 

 serrated ; operculum armed with from one to five spines. Dorsal fins two ; 

 the first supported by from twelve to fifteen spines. 



This genus is peculiar to the fresh water streams, rivers and lakes of North 

 America and Europe. 



? II. 

 Intermaxillary, vomerine and palatine bones provided only with villiform 

 teeth. 



A. 

 Pseudobranchiae present. 



a. 



Head with its superior surface scaleless, or only with two scaly areas on 

 each side of the posterior part. Anterior dorsal fin provided with from seven 

 to fifteen spines. Tongue without teeth. 



Lateral line linear, ceasing at the base of the caudal fin. 

 Genus Perca Linn., Cuv, 



Perca «p. Linn., Systema Naturae. 



Perca sp. Cuv. et Vol., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. ii. 



Perca Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fish, &c., vol. i. p. 62. 



Body elongate-fusiform. Head conical in profile, covered on the cheeks 

 and preoperculum, suboperculum and upper part of the operculum with 

 cycloid scales of moderate size. Operculum generally naked and radiatedly 

 striated. Preoperculum with its anterior margin well defined and entire, and 



1861.J 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



its true margin serrated posteriorly, and inferiorly armed generally with teeth 

 curved forwards. Operculum with a single spine. Suborbital bone entire. 

 Suprascapular, scapular and coracoid bones serrated. Dorsal fins entirely 

 disconnected ; the first provided with from twelve to fifteen spines. Anal fin 

 furnished with two spines. 



This genus, of which the common Yellow Perch is the type, is peculiar to 

 Europe and North America. Its species are not yet well defined or known. 



Type. Perca fluviatilis Linn. 



Genus Kuhlia Gill. 



Perca sp. Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. ii. p. 52. 

 Percichthys sp. Giinthtr, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fish, &c., vol. i. 

 p. 62. 



Body elongated, fusiform. Head conical. Anterior dorsal fin sustained by 

 nine spines ; the posterior with a spine and about eleven articulated rays. 



A single species is known ; it is peculiar, so far as known, to the Island of 

 Java. 



Type. Kuhlia ciliata Gill. 

 Syn. Perca ciliata Cuv. et Vol. 



Genus Niphon Cuv. et Val. 



Niphon Cuv. et Val, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. ii. p. 131. 



Body elongated and subfusiform. Head oblong-conical in profile. Lower 

 jaw longer. Preoperculum posteriorly serrated, armed below with anteriorly 

 recurved spines, and at the angle with a large, horizontal one. Operculum 

 with three strong spines. Suborbital bone serrated. Dorsal fins connected at 

 the base by a little elevated membrane ; the anterior with twelve spines. 

 Anal fin with three moderate spines. A single species is found in the Chinese 

 and Japanese seas. 



Type. Niphon spinosus Cuv. el Val. 



Lateral line elevated and continued between the median rays to the margin 

 of the forked caudal fin. 



Genus Centropomus (Lac.) Cuv. 



Labrax sp. Klein. 



Centropomus sp. Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iv. p. 248. 



Centropomus Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. 



Body elongated and fusiform. Head oblong-conical in profile. Lower jaw 

 longer. Preoperculum with the anterior margin furnished with two spines at 

 its ano-le, and with its posterior and inferior serrated and armed at the angle 

 with larger teeth directed backwards. Operculum with no true spine. Sub- 

 orbital and suprascapular bones serrated. Dorsal fins entirely disconnected ; 

 the first sustained by eight spines. Anal fin trapezoidal, with three spines, 

 the second of which is very large, and with about six branched rays. 



Several species are found in the Carribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, and along 

 the neighboring coasts. 



Type. Centropomus undecimalis Lac. 



b. 

 Head with its dorsal surface covered with scales, extending almost to the 

 nostrils. Anterior dorsal fin furnished with from nine to eleven spines. 



b*. 

 Teeth on the jaws and palate villiform ; tongue or iuterbranchial isthmus 

 with villiform teeth. 



[Feb. 




CATALOGUE 



OF THE 



FISHES 



OF THE 



EASTERN COAST OF NORTH AMERICA, 



FROM 



GREENLAND TO GEORGIA. 



BY 



THEODORE GILL. 



Jancaey, 1861. 




I 




nSTTRODUOTIOISr. 



About fourteen years have now elapsed since the publication of Dr. D. 

 H. Storer's " Synopsis of the Fishes of North America."* That work is 

 the last, and, indeed, almost the only special work that has ever been 

 published, professing to give a complete enumeration of the varioiis 

 species of fishes which have been described as inhabitants of the waters 

 that bound, or course through, our continent. During the interval that 

 has elapsed between its composition and the present day, the progress of 

 Ichthyology, in common with every other branch of Natural Science, has 

 been such, that the " Synopsis of the Fishes of North America " presents 

 a very inadequate view of the present condition of our knowledge. It 

 appeared desirable that a list of the numerous species described in various 

 special works and the Transactions of learned societies should be pub- 

 lished, in order to exhibit the extent of our Fauna. The following Cata- 

 logue has therefore been prepared, and is believed to be a close approxi- 

 mation to the correct nomenclature of species of our coast. 



Dissatisfied with all the existing schemes of classification, we have not 

 strictly adhered to any one, as will be sufficiently evident on examination 

 of the Catalogue. The following arrangement approximates most nearly 

 to that of the late celebrated and learned Johannes Mliller, butthe orders of 

 Pharyngognathi, Anacantliini and even Malacopteri have been rejected 

 as such, they having apparently no real existence in natur^; for conve- 

 nience of classification, some have been retained as suborders. 



Wef have already remarked on the close affinity of several genera of 

 the Miillerian Pharyngognathi to others of that biologist's Acanthopteri ; 

 we have cited the mutual resemblance of Pterophyllum of Heckel and 

 Platax ; of Astronotus of Swainson and Lobotes, and of AmblodonX of 

 Rafinesque and Corvina, and have remai'ked that Cuvier had even re- 

 garded the respective analogous genera as identical, while the Miillerian 

 classification would refer them to different orders. We may further re- 

 mind the reader of the very close affinity of the Pseudochromoids to the 

 true Chromoids, and that Malacanthus, which has by all naturalists been 



* " A Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, ' ' by David Humphreys 

 Storer, M. D., A. A. S. Cambridge, 1846: ib. in "Memoirs of the American 

 Academy," vol. ii. 



t "Notes on a collection of Japanese Fishes, made by Dr. J. Morrow," by 

 Theo. Gill, in Proc Acad, of Natural Sciences, for 1859, p. 148. 



X "Notice of a collection of Fishes from the southern bend of Tennessee 

 river, in the State of Alabama, " by L. Agassiz, in American Journal of Science 

 and Arts, second series, vol. xvii. p. 307. 




admitted as a true Labroid, differs from the other genera of that family 

 by the separation of the inferior pharyngeal bones, and would therefore 

 be an Acanthopteran of Miiller, and consequently a member of a different 

 order from the Labroids. 



But even if the Labroids, the Poraacentroids and the Chromoids are 

 ordinally distinct from the Acanthopteri, they can scarcely be considered 

 ag natural associates of the Scomberesocoids, which have, by Miiller, 

 been placed in the same order, but under a distinct suborder. The Scom- 

 beresocoids appear, indeed, to be much more nearly related to the Scom- 

 broids and their allies than to any other members of the class. This 

 relation we perhaps see more strongly in the genus Scomberesox than any 

 other, but in all it is quite apparent. The pinnules or false finlets of 

 Scomberesox above and below the caudal peduncle remind us at once of 

 the true Scombroids. The structure of the scales, the mode of squama- 

 tion, and the lateral carina add to the likeness. We even see an analogous 

 instance of the prolongation of the maxillaries, nasal and frontal bones, 

 to form a beak in the family of Xiphioids, which, by all natui-alists, have 

 ever been regarded as very near allies of the Scombroids, and by many 

 as belonging to the same family. 



The Aulostomoids have also many characters in common with the 

 Scomberesocoids, and should be apparently classed near them. To those 

 who object, on account of the different nature of the fin rays, to the like- 

 ness of Scomberesox and the Scombroids as not being indicative of affinity, 

 we would refer to the well known Solenostomi [Channorliynchi of Cantor 

 or Fistularice of Linnasus.) Those fishes are as totally destitute of spines 

 as any of the Scomberesocoids, and yet no naturalist can overlook their 

 affinity to the Aulostomi of Lacepede or Polypterichthys of Bleeker, each 

 of which have a number of spines before the rayed dorsal fin, and are thus, 

 if we look to single characters only, truly referable to the Acanthopteri. 

 But why need we say anything on the futility of an ordinal classification. 

 based on the nature of the rays alone ? It is only necessary to mention 

 the Ichthyoscopi of Swainson and Leptoscopi and Dactyloscopi of Gill 

 among the Uranoscopoids ; the Aspidophoroides of Lacepede among the 

 Agonoids ; the genus Gobiopus of Gill, and others among the Gobioids, 

 and the whole family of Pseudochromoids. Convinced, then, that the 

 nature of the rays alone is not sufficient to determine the affinities of 

 fishes, and as there are no important anatomical differences, we have ap- 

 proximated both the Aulostomatoids and the Scomberesocoids to the 

 Scombroids, as well as the Echenioids, which are related to the same 

 fishes through means of Elacates. 



To those who refer to the abdominal position of the ventral fins, as an 

 argument against the affinity of Scomberesox and the Scombroids, we 

 point to the same Aulostomoids, to the Sphyraenoids, the Atherinoids, 

 and Campylodontoids, and perhaps the Gasterosteoids. 



The likeness of Scomberesox to the Scombroids has already been 




alluded to by Professor Agassiz, who has remarked on the similarity of 

 the finlets of that genus and the Mackerels, Lacepede has himself per- 

 petuated his appreciation of the same resemblance in the name which he 

 has given to the group. Agassiz has also adverted to the affinity of 

 Echeneis to Elacates — an affinity which has been also recognized and in- 

 sisted on by Holbrook* and very recently by Grunther.f 



The Cottoids and other Sclerogenoids have been removed from the 

 station assigned to them by most naturalists, and are now placed after 

 the Scombroid and before the Blennoid group. . The distinction between 

 the formidably armed Sculpins {Acanthocottus) and the typical Blen- 

 noids, defenceless and almost totally destitute of robust spines, is indeed 

 great, but there is still an evident likeness between them. There is also 

 a strict gradation between the almost Percoid-looking Sebastes to the 

 loose-set Blennoid through the long chain of striking forms which have 

 been ranged in the respective families of Sclerogenoids and Blennoids. 



From the Blennoids, the passage to the Cod fishes appears to be also 

 gradual. This likeness has been recognized by several of the older natu- 

 ralists, who have referred Blennoids to the old " genus " Gadus, and 

 Gadoids to Blennius. The late Prince of CaninoJ had even placed the 

 common "Toad fishes " {Batrachus) of the Americans in a group which 

 he has called the order " Gadi," and in which he has also included the 

 Leptocephaloids, Ammodytoids, Ophidioids, Macruroids, Gadoids and 

 Bibronioids. Nor does the approximation of those fishes to the Gadoids 

 appear very unnatural. There is some likeness between the Batraclii 

 and Ramceps, but perhaps there is more actual affinity between them 

 and the Uranoscopoids, and in the vicinity of the former, we have, at 

 least provisionally, accordingly retained them, thus adopting the views 

 first announced by Agassiz, and recently reaffirmed by Girard. The 

 Uranoscopoids themselves are obviously connected with the Syuauchoid 

 genus Trachicephalus § of Swainson, and through them with the other 

 Sclerogenoids. The remarkable genus Dactyloscopus of Gill shows the 

 affinities of the Uranoscopoids to the Blennoids. 



This is not the proper place to enter more fully into the affinities of 

 the smaller groups. We turn to the larger. 



Miillerll has divided the class of fishes into six subclasses, characterized 



* " Ichthyology of South Carolina, " by John Edwards Holbrook, M. D. 4to. 

 Charleston, 1855, (p. 104.) 



f Oh the History of Echeneis, by Dr. Albert Giinther, in "The Annals 

 and Magazine of Natural History," 1860. 



J " Catalogo Metodico dei Pesci Europe! di Carlo L. Principe Bonaparte," 

 Napoli, 1846. 



§ This name cannot be retained, as it had been previously applied to a valid 

 genus of Saurians. The name of Uranoblepus may be conferred on it. A new 

 species from China is in the collection of the North Pacific Exploring Expedi- 

 tion, and was collected by Dr. Stimpson, 



II " Ueber den Granoiden undden natiirliche System der Fische, " and various 

 other Memoirs, by J. Miiller. 




6 



by differences observed in the vascular and nervous systems. Four 

 at least of these are very distinct, and Agassiz* has recently even sug- 

 gested that they are entitled to rank as classes, basing his opinion chiefly 

 on the difference of development in each group. 



Representatives of five of the subclasses of Miiller are found on the 

 Eastern shores of North America. In accordance with the suggestion of 

 Prof. Baird, a synopsis is given of the most obvious and important char- 

 acters of each. 



Subclass TELBOSTEI Muller. 



The first subclass has been named Teleostei by Muller. The endo- 

 skeleton is almost always osseous. The scapular arch is suspended from 

 the skull ; the supra scapula generally connected with the mastoid and 

 paroccipital bones. The exo-skeleton is generally in the form of cycloid 

 or ctenoid scales, but sometimes the body is naked and sometimes 

 covered with bony scales, plates or spines. The optic nerves cross each 

 other in their passage from their respective lobes to the eyes. The bvlbus 

 arteriosus has almost always only two opposite semilunar valves. The 

 branchial apertures are represented by simple fissures on each side. 

 There are four pairs of true and well developed branchial arches, each of 

 which generally supports free branchise. An air-bladder is generally pre- 

 sent. The ventral fins vary in position and are sometimes absent. 



This subclass embraces by far the largest proportion of existing fishes. 

 If we consider the Plectognaths, the Lophobranchiates and the Siluroids, 

 as members of the group, we may divide it into five natural and easily 

 distinguished orders. Agassiz considers the three orders above mentioned 

 as perhaps more nearly allied to the Ganoids. For the present, we prefer 

 to retain them among the Teleostei. 



The orders may be thus characterized : 



Order TELEOCEPHALI Gill. 



The endo-skeleton is almost always perfectly developed. The body is 

 generally covered by ctenoid or cycloid scales. The branchiae are pecti- 

 nated. The supramaxillaries and intermaxillaries are always present and 

 separated from each other.f The subopercular bone is almost invariably 

 present. J Many of the rays are articulated and branched. 



This order embraces the largest number of recent fishes, and is cosmo- 

 politan in distribution. Almost all of the fishes most esteemed as food 

 belong to it. 



It is divisible into several suborders. 



* ' ' Contributions to the Natural History of the United States of America, by 

 Louis Agassiz." Boston, 1857, vol. i. 



f In the family of Mormyroids, the intermaxillary bones are united, but 

 they are distinct from the supramaxillaries. 



% It is absent in the Notopteroids. 




Suborder PHYSOCLYSTI* (Bon.) 



The scales, when present, are either ctenoid or cycloid ; there are rare- 

 ly osseous plates. The anterior rays of the dorsal and anal fins, and the 

 first ray of the ventrals are simple or spinous. The ventrals are generally 

 more or less anterior. The lower pharyngeal bones are small and tri- 

 angular, sometimes united, but generally distinct ; the teeth are implanted 

 on the plane surface. The air-bladder never has a duct communicating 

 with the intestinal canal. 



The group for which we have retained Bonaparte's name of Physoclysti 

 corresponds nearly to the Acanthopterygians, and jugular iVIalacoptery- 

 gians of Cuvier, and to the Acanthopteri, Pharyngognathi and Anacan- 

 thini of Miiller, the Pleuronectoids being omitted. The differences be- 

 tween those respective groups is so slight, and thei'e is such an obvious 

 similarity between some genera of each that we cannot believe their dis- 

 tinction is founded in nature. We have retained, with Cuvier and Miil- 

 ler, the Pharyngognathan families of Acanthopterygians at the end of the 

 present suborders, but their affinities are probably rather with the Scioe- 

 noids, the Choetodontoids, and even the Percoids. There is indeed a 

 very strong resemblance between the Chromoid genera, Cichlasoma of 

 Swainson or >4ca?'rt of Heckel, and Geophagus of Heckel and the Percoid 

 Sunfishes [Pomotis of Rafinesquef) and Centrarchi. 



Suborder HETEROSOM ATAJ Bon. 



The chief distinctive feature of this group consists in the unsymmetri- 

 cal body, the eyes being on one side of the head, and the mouth more or 

 less distorted. The side on which the eyes are situated is dark or vari- 

 ously colored, while the eyeless is almost always white. The scales are 

 either ctenoid or cycloid. The dorsal and anal fins are very long, and 

 composed mostly of articulated rays. The ventrals are jugular. There 

 is no air-bladder. 



This suborder was first recognized as an order by Prince Bonaparte. 

 It embraces the well known "Flounders" and "Flat-fishes" of onr 

 coasts. 



Suborder PHYSOSTOMI (Miiller.) 



The scales are generally cycloid, almost the only exceptions occurring 



* Derived from ^Jtra, bladder, and x.\u<rk, closed, in allusion to the absence 

 of a duct communicating between the air-bladder and mouth, or intestinal 

 canal. 



t Icbthyologia Ohiensis. 



X Heterosomes Oumeril, Zoologie Analytique ou Metliode Naturelle de classi- 

 fication des Animaux, Paris, 1806, p. 132, 133. 



Heterosomata Bonaparte, Catalogo Metodico dei Pesci Europei, 1846, p. 6. 



Dumeril regarded the group as a family. 




in the genera Luciocephalus of Blecker,* Percopsis of Agassiz,t and some 

 CharacinsJ where all or some of them are ctenoid. The fins are mostly 

 sustained by branched rays, only the first rays being sometimes simple. 

 The ventral fins are always abdominal. The lower pharyngeal bones are 

 separated, and almost always small and triangular, with the teeth on a 

 plane surface. The air-bladder communicates by a duct with the mouth 

 or intestinal canal. 



This suborder is almost co-equal in extent with the Physostomi of Miil- 

 ler, the Cyprinoids being alone withdrawn. It embraces on our own 

 coasts, the Salmonoids, Olupeoids and similar fishes. 



Suborder EVENTOGNATHI Gill. 



The body, with only three exceptions, i-s provided with cycloid scales. § 

 All the rays of the fins, except the first of each, are branched. The ven- 

 trals are always abdominal. The lower pharyngeal bones are of a more 

 or less falciform shape, greatly developed, nearly parallel with the 

 branchial arches, and provided on the internal surface of the curved por- 



* " Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie," vol. i. p. 273, vol. 

 iii. p. 99. 



f " Lake Superior ; its physical character, vegetation and animals," &c., 

 by Louis Agassiz, Boston, 1850, p. 284. 



Prof. Baird ( " Iconographic Encyclopaedia of Science, Literature and Art," 

 translated from the German of Heck, N. Y., 1851, vol. ii. p. 212) has indicated 

 the affinity of Percopsis with the Characins. 



X In a species preserved in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, 

 nearly allied to the Xiphostomas of Spix, and especially to the Xiphostoma 

 hujeta of Valenciennes, the scales are covered with numerous closely approxi- 

 mated ridges abruptly commencing at the bases of their exposed surfaces, and 

 terminating in as many strong teeth on the posterior margin. Valenciennes 

 has not described the structure of the scales in the species of Xiphostoma 

 known to him. But he as well as MuUer and Troschel in the " Horse Ich- 

 thyologicse, " have mentioned them as being of moderate size. The ridges 

 and pectinated margins of those of our fish are so strongly marked that it is 

 scarcely possible that they should have been overlooked, if they occurred in 

 the species known to the very excellent naturalists above mentioned. 



The dorsal fin of our fish is more posterior than in the typical Xiphostomas, 

 being above the anal ; the anus is under the anterior rays of the dorsal. In 

 this respect it resembles Xiphostoma maculatum and X. hvjeta of Valencien- 

 nes. 



Three specimens of the species were collected at Truando, by Mr. Arthur 

 Schott on Lieut. Michler's Expedition to the Atrato river. They will be de- 

 scribed under the generic name of Ctenolucius. It must remain undecided 

 whether the two species of Xiphostoma of Valenciennes, agreeing in the posi- 

 tion of the dorsal and anal fins, are really congeneric. 



The scales of the common " mossbonker" or "menhaden" (Brevoortia 

 menhaden Gill, ) and other allied species have also the margins of the scales 

 more or less pectinated. Most of the scales of the Cyprinodont genus Lucio- 

 cephalus of Bleeker or Diplopterus of Gray are also ctenoid. 



§ The body is destitute of scales in the American genus Meda of Girard, and 

 the very characteristic European Aulopyge of Heckel. But one species of each 

 is known. The typical species of Phoxinellus are also scalcless. 




tion with large teeth of various forms. The air-bladder is divided by con- 

 striction into two or three portions, and communicates by a duct with the 

 oesophagus. 



If the pharyngeal bones are of any value in classification, the Cypri- 

 noids appear to be entitled* to distinction as a suborder of the Teleo- 

 cepbali. The difiFerences between the form of the pharyngeal bones 

 of this group and those of the Acanthopteri seem to be certainly of much 

 greater value than the difference between those of the latter and the Pha- 

 ryngognathi. The form in both of those are the same, and the only dif- 

 ference is the separation or coalescence of the lower bones. The pharyn- 

 geal bones of the Cyprinoids, on the contrary, have a very different form 

 from those of either of the other orders. Other anatomical peculiarities 

 appear to justify us in the separation of the group from the other Physos- 

 tomi of Miiller. We have accordingly bestowed on it the name of Even- 

 tognathi in allusion to the development of the pharyngeal jaws. 



No true marine representatives of the Cyprinoids can be said to exist. 

 The Hiulsonms amarus of Girard,* Leuciscus chrysopterus of Dekay,t a 

 fish of doubtful genus, and some of the Northern OatostomiJ are found in 

 brackish or salt water, but they can only be regarded as exceptional ex- 

 amples, and scarcely as true marine fishes. They have consequently been 

 excluded from our catalogue. 



Order APODES Kaup ? 



The body is always anguilliform, or extremely elongated ; the skin is 

 generally naked, rarely covered with minute scales imbedded in the epi- 

 dermis. The braachiae are pectinated. The supramaxillaries and inter- 

 maxillaries are small or rudimentary. Teeth are planted on the palatine and 

 vomerine bones. With the vomer, the nasal and ethmoid bones are coal- 

 escent.ll The ventral fins are always absent; the pectorals often; the 



* ' ' Researches upon the Cyprinoid Fishes inhabiting the fresh waters of the 

 United States west of the Mississippi valley, from specimens in the Museum, 

 of the Smithsonian Institution. By Charles Girard, M. D.," p. 46, ih. in Proc. 

 of the Acad, of Natural Sciences, 1856. 



t " Zoology of New York, or the New York Fauna," by James E. Dekay. 

 Partiv. Fishes, p. 211, pi. xxx. fig. 95. 



X Note in the Ichthyology of the voyage of the Erebus and Terror, by Sir 

 John Ricliardson, p. 58. 



The Rtjnchana Greiji, mentioned by Sir John as an instance of a purely 

 marine representative of Cyprinoids, is a member of a very different family 

 (Gouorhynchoidse Val.) and belongs to the genus Gonorhynclius of Gronovius, 

 as was afterwards acknowledged by its describer. 



§ Catalogue of the Apodal Fish, in the collection of the British Museum, by 

 Dr. Kaup, Professor of Natural History, Darmstadt, London, 1856. 



Article "Ichthyology," by Sir John Richardson, in the recent edition of 

 the ' ' Encyclopaedia Britannica. ' ' 



Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, by Sir John Richardson, pp. 78, 114. 

 _ II The skull of the representatives of the genus Murmna is thus described by 

 Sir John Richardson : 




10 



dorsal, anal and caudal fins, when present, are always confluent ; their 

 rays are simple. 



This order embraces the " Eels" and " Congers." The Electrical Eel 

 [Gymnotus *electricus Linn.) and the allied forms are excluded from the 

 order as they are true Teleocephali. In 'that order, there are many 

 genera characterized by an elongated form and the absence of ventrals, but 

 none in which there is the union of characters indicated in the foregoing 

 diagnosis. In the present order alone is the absence of ventrals a perma- 

 nent feature. 



Order LEMNISCATI Kaup. 



This is a small order of doubtful affinity, and is composed of small fishes 

 which are destitute of ventral fins, and which are generally diaphanous, 

 greatly elongated and much compressed or ribbon-formed. An exception 

 is seen in the genus Helmichthys of Rafinesque, in which the body is vermi- 

 form or subcylindrical. The skull and vertebral column are incomplete 

 and cartilaginous. The blood is colorless, and there is no spleen. The 



' ' Ossa cranii valida, solida, multa per anchylosin coalita. Ossa premaxil- 

 laria maxillseque desunt. Os nasi cum vomere ethmoideque in unam coalitum, 

 dentiferum, munus ossium premasillarium sustiuens ; os palati antice ad col- 

 nmnam orbitse anteriorem ossi nasi per symphisin inhserens, postice per ten- 

 dinem pedicello imo mandibulse connexum ; cumque esse nasi rictum oris 

 superiorem conficiens. Mandibula longa, occiput postice sequans vel transiens. 

 Ejus pedicellum tympanicum os unicum, validum, triangulare in latere cranii 

 late inliserens." 



Richardson remarks that the nomenclature of the bones of the skull of these 

 fishes is a subject of no little difficulty, and lie has gladly "availed himself of 

 that proposed by Professor Owen in his Lectures on the Vertebrata. 



* The Gymnotoids are remarkable for the advanced position of the anus, 

 which is under the throat, and in the typical species of Rhamphichthys (Miil- 

 ler and Troschel) even before the eyes and between the limbs of the lower 

 jaw. But the advanced anus is not peculiar to those fishes. It also occurs in 

 the Aphredoderoids, and the Hypsoeoids, both of which are North American 

 forms. The latter have now at least two, and perhaps three distinct genera — 

 AmhJyopsis of Dekay, blind and provided with ventral fins ; Cliologaster of 

 Agassiz, with eyes, but without ventral fins ; and TypUchthys of Girard, ap- 

 pearing to differ fi'om Chologaster only by its rudimentary eyes. It may be 

 doubted whether the last two are distinct. 



They bear nearly the same relation to each other that the " crawfish" of 

 the Mammoth cave does to the numerous species found in our streams. Yet 

 no carcinologist has attempted to generically distinguish the one from the 

 others. All are for them true Cambari. There is an atrophy of a single organ ; 

 all other parts of their organization are similar. The single modification is 

 adapted for a special purpose; to fit them for a peculiar habitat; there is no need 

 of the organs or the sense, and they have been therefore withheld from them. 

 As the modification is determined by habitat and not independent of it, it has 

 scarcely a generic value unless accompanied by some other peculiarity. 



Bourguignat in the " Revue et Magazin de Zoologie " for 1856, (vol. viii. p. 

 499) has established a genus, which he has named Zospeum, for a group of ter- 

 restrial Gastropod Mollusks peculiar to the caves of Central Europe. Its spe- 

 cies had been previously by most naturalists referred to Carychium. 




11 



body is entirely naked, and the arrangement of the muscles is very ap- 

 parent. 



It is very doubtful whether this order truly belongs near to the preced- 

 ing orders, and it is only provisionally retained here. By Sir John Richard- 

 son, in the valuable essay on " Ichthyology," in the Encyclopaedia Brit- 

 annica, it is placed as a third suborder of the Dermoptei'i of Owen. Un- 

 til it is better known, we prefer to retain it among the Teleostei, to which, 

 notwithstanding the rudimentary condition of its organization, it appears 

 to be more nearly allied. Sir John Richardson referred it to the Derm- 

 opteri on account of the " absence of ossification in the skeleton, the 

 gelatinous condition of the sheath of the spinal marrow, which, in the form 

 of a ' chorda dorsalis,' reaches into the base of the skull, and the per- 

 sistence of the primordial cartilaginous cranium." 



A single species, the Leptocephalus gracilis of Storer, is found on our 

 coast. 



Order NEMATOGNATHI Gill* 



The body is either naked, or protected by ganoid plates. The branchiae 

 are pectinated and supported on four arches as in the Teleocephali. 

 The supra-maxillary bones are little developed, and are enveloped in the 

 integuments which terminate in longer or shorter barbels. The suboper- 

 cular bone is always absent. The rays are mostly articulated and 

 branched. 



This order embraces the "Catfishes," "Horn-pouts" and "Bull-heads" 

 or Idaliirif of Xorth America. It embraces five families, and about 

 one hundred and thirty or forty genera, which are chiefly represented 

 in Asia and South America. 



He has remarked on the general absence of sight in those animals found in 

 caves and localities from which the light is excluded, and concludes that the 

 want of that sense is of generic importance. While we are disposed to believe 

 in the validity of the genus established by him, we can scarcely coincide in 

 his views. The modification of a single organ dependant on the mode of life, 

 we cannot yet regard as by itself of generic importance. But in most cases, 

 such a modification is accompanied by others, and in conjunction with them, 

 it assumes a systematic value. 



These remarks have little relation to the subject in hand, but we have been 

 uaturally, although unintentionally, led to them, and think it advisable to re- 

 tain them. 



*" Ichthyologiae Archipelagi Indici Prodromus, auct. P. Bleeker, " vol. 1. 

 Siluri ; lb., in " Acta Societatis Suientiarum Indo Nederlandicse, " vol. iv. 

 1858, is a valuable monograph of the order. 



fRafinesque first named and well defined the group of freshwater "Cat- 

 fishes" of North America, conferring upon them the subgeneric name of /cia/u- 

 rus, and dividing that subgenus into sections, some of which are of generic 

 value. We admit four, Ictalurus ; Amiurus, of which the common catfishes of 

 the eastern streams are representatives ; Hopladelus, and Noturus. These 

 genera will be described and illustrated in the forthcoming report, of Captain 

 Simpson, U. S. A. 




Order PLECTOGNA THI Cur. 



In this order the internal skeleton is less perfectly developed than in 

 the Teleocephali. The exterior is covered with ganoid plates, granu- 

 lations or spines. The supramaxillary and intermaxillary bones are 

 united together into a continuous piece. The branchiae are pectinated ; 

 the branchial apertures small. The air-bladder has no duct. 



In this order the Diodontoids and Tetraodontoids, popularly called 

 " Puffers," " Blowers" and " Balloon fishes," and the Balistoids or " Trig- 

 ger fishes," are included. 



Or^er LOPHOBRANCmi Cuv. (Kaup.)* 

 The internal skeleton is less perfectly developed than in the Pectini- 

 branchiata. The external skeleton is composed of polygonal plates, of an 

 osseous and corneous structure, and which are joined to each other, but 

 permit considerable mobility in the animal. The jaws are produced into 

 an elongated tubular mouth. The branchiie are tufted; the branchial 

 apertures small and on each side of the nape. The air-bladder has no 

 duct communicating with the intestinal canal. 



This order embraces representatives of only two genera on our coasts, 

 the well known ''Pipe-fishes" and "Sea-horses," or the Sy^ignatM and 

 Hippocampi of naturalists. In the tropical, and especially the Asiatic 

 seas, the order is represented by quite a large number of genera and 

 species, which have been distributed by modern systematists among three 

 decidedly distinct families. 



Subclass GANOIDEI (Agassiz) Miiller. 

 The subclass of the G anoidei or Ganoids, as revised by Miiller, embraces 

 forms in which the vertebral column and skull are either osseous or car- 

 tilaginous. The scapular arch is directly suspended from the skull. The 

 exo-skeleton is generally deposited in the form of ganoid plates, but there 

 are, in representatives of some families, oval or cycloid scales, and the 

 body is still more rarely naked, and the bony plates absent. The optic 

 nerves, like those of the Plagiostoms, are only connected by commissure 

 and do not decussate. The bulbus arteriosus ia muscular, and provided 

 with two or more rows of valves, which in one order are replaced by two 

 spiral and longitudinal valvular folds. The intestine has frequently, but 

 not always, a spiral valve. There are no special intromittent organs. 

 The branchial apertures are simple fissures or spiracles on each side, as 

 in ordinary fishes ; the branchiae are free. An air-bladder is present, and 

 communicates by a duct with the intestinal canal. The ventrals are 

 abdominal. 



* "Catalogue of Lophobranchiate Fish in the collection of the British Mu- 

 seum. By J. J. Kaup, Ph. D. &c." London 1856. 



Article " Ichthyology" by Sir John Richardaon, in the recent edition of the 

 *' Encyclopaedia Britannica." 




13 



This subclass embraces, according to the views of Agassiz aad Miiller, 

 the recent sturgeons and the gar-pikes, and the Amias of the fresh water 

 streams and lakes of America. 



The subclass of Ganoids, as here restricted, is one of the most interest- 

 ing divisions of the class of Fishes. Some of its representatives are so 

 nearly similar in external form and appearance to true fishes or Teleostei, 

 that a naturalist, unacquainted with the anatomical characters of the 

 species, might well be excused for considering them as members of the 

 same family. Such are the Amite of North America, and the Erythrinoids 

 of South America. The former have the optic nerves connected by a 

 simple commissure and not decussating, and the bulbus arteriosus fur- 

 nished with many valves ; it is, therefore, a true Ganoid. The Erythri- 

 noids exhibit decussating optic nerves, and a single pair of opposite valves 

 in the bulbus arteriosus ; they are, consequently, true fishes or Teleostei. 

 Yet in external characters, there is a very strong resemblance between 

 them, and they were indeed placed next to each other and in the same 

 family by Cuvier. Amia is provided with a sublingual bone, but this is 

 not a character peculiar to the Ganoids ; for the family Elopoidee, com- 

 posed of the genera Elops of Linnaeus and Megalops of Lacepede, is 

 distinguished by the presence of a similar bone. Professor Agassiz has 

 indeed expressed an opinion that, on account of the structure of the scales, 

 and on other grounds, the genus Megalops may be a member of his order 

 of Ganoids. The reasons for arriving at such a conclusion have not been 

 given by him. One reason might well be the presence of such a sublingual 

 bone, especially if, as appears to be the case, such an appendage is peculiar 

 to the Elopoids among the subclass of Teleostei. And there is, indeed, 

 no very inconsiderable resemblance between the Elopoids and the species 

 of some of the families of Holosteau Ganoids which have no living represen- 

 tatives. Such are the Leptolepoids, which are generally regarded as true 

 Ganoids. But unless the Elopoids have the structure of the brain and 

 the simple chiasma of the optic nerves as well as the two or more rows of 

 valves in the bulbus arteriosus, they cannot, without a new conception of 

 the characters of Ganoids, be referred to that subclass. 



In other forms, characters are seen which indicate their affinity with 

 the Amphibians and Eeptiles ; traits which were formerly supposed to be 

 peculiar to those classes have now been found in representatives of this 

 subclass of fishes. The most singular and remarkable of those types are 

 the paradoxical Lepidosirenes of South America, and Protopteri of 

 Africa. The former were first described by Fitzinger and Natterer as 

 amphibian reptiles, most nearly allied to the Sirenoids of North America; 

 the latter, first named by Owen Protopteri, and afterwards, on the publi- 

 cation of the memoir of Fitzinger, referred to the genus Lepidosiren, were 

 placed among the fishes. The rank and affinities of those animals have since 

 attracted much attention from naturalists, and besides the eminent ones 

 above-mentioned, the accomplished anatomists and zoologists, Bischoff, 




14 



Milne-Edwards and Miiller have added to our knowledge of their organ- 

 ization, and each has discussed their affinities from various points of 

 view. 



Although such learned biol)gists as the Professors Bischoff and Milne 

 Edwards have believed in the accuracy of the reference of the Lepido- 

 sirenoids to the Amphibian reptiles, the greatest number of zoologists 

 has regarded thera as true fishes. The first of these are undoubtedly 

 Owen and Miiller, each distinguished by the most profound knowledge of 

 the aiiatomy and characteristics of the classes of the Vertebrata. 



Professor Owen, in the "concluding observations " of his admirable 

 memoir of the Lepdosiren a»«ec^e?is, has fully reviewed the relations of 

 that species, and has pronounced an unqualified belief in its piscine 

 affinities. He has shown that it is proved to be a fish, " not by its gills, 

 not by its air bladders, not by its spiral intestine, not by its unossified 

 skeleton, not by its generative apparatus, nor its extremities, nor its skin, 

 nor its eyes, nor its ears, bnt, simply, by its nose." In all of its characters, 

 except the last, it agrees with some of the lower Amphibians. He yet 

 warns the student "that the physiological consequences of the modifica- 

 tions of the nasal cavity, above alluded to, would have been far too 

 insignificant to have established the ichthyic nature of the Lepidosiren, 

 if, with coexistent gills and lungs, the modifications of the other organic 

 systems had agreed with those of the Perennibranchians instead of with 

 those of Fishes." As his remarks that follow are pertinent to the subject 

 of the present memoir, we take the liberty of quoting them : — 



" For, although it be true, that the fish-like modification of any single 

 system is insufficient of itself to determine the removal of the Lepidosiren 

 from the Amphih/'a, in which it has hitherto been placed, to the class of 

 Fishes, yet it is impossible to avi id arriving at that conclusion, when we 

 consider the concurrence of ichthyic characters in so many parts of the 

 organization of this most interesting species. The combination of cycloid 

 scales, mucous ducts, quasi-fins, supported each by a many-jointed ray, 

 a gelatino-cartilaginous vertebral style united to the whole surface of the 

 basi-occipital, and not to two basilar condyles, the preopercular bone, the 

 simple structure of the lower jaw, the double spines of the neur- and 

 hgem-apophyses, the green color of the ossified parts of the skeleton ; 

 these external and osteological characters being associated with an 

 intestinal spiral valve, with the absence of pancreas and spleen,* the 

 position of \he anus anterior to the allantoid bladder, a dicoeleus heart, six 

 pairs of branchial arches, with the gills concealed, the simple organ of 



*Muller or Peters has demonstrated the existence of a spleen in the Rhino- 

 crypiis aiiiphU'ia of Peters, which is doubtless a species of Owen's genus 

 Protoptenis. It is large, and situated behind the stomach and commencement 

 of the intestinal canal, and beneath the peritoneal coat of the tractus intesti- 

 nalis. It must be separated from the black pigment which forms a copious 

 substratum beneath the peritoneal covering of the intestines. 




15 



hearing consisting only of the acoustic labyrinth excavated in cartilage 

 and provided with large otolithes, and, lastly, the blind nasal sacs, form 

 a cumulative body of evidence in proof that the Lepidosiren is a fish, 

 which far outweighs the argument to the contrary, founded on the reptile- 

 like development of its air-bladder and its conversion into an organ of 

 aerial respiration." 



After this able and elaborate summary, it will be only necessary to 

 notice some of the objections that have been since brought against the 

 reference of the Lepidosirenoids to the class of Fishes. The most 

 prominent of those objectors are Bischoff and Milne Edwards. The 

 former, influenced especially by the consideration of the position of the 

 posterior nostrils, believed that they were true Amphibians. He found 

 that the hinder nostrils opened into the cavity of the mouth near to the 

 commissure of the lips. Milne-Edwards himself admits that their abnormal 

 position may be in part accounted for by the absence of superior maxillary 

 .bones. Nor is such a termination of the olfactory canal peculiar to the 

 Lepidosirenoids, An analogous arrangement occurs in the whole family 

 of Ophisuroids of Kaup, which has, consequently, been placed by that 

 naturalist in a peculiar section, called by him " Cryptomycteres." Those 

 apodal fishes " have a posterior nostril, which is placed in a cleft on the 

 border of the lip, or perforates the inner soft part thereof." The slight 

 resemblance or analogy to that family in its elongated form, and the 

 character of the vertical fins, may be also remarked. It is further worthy 

 of note that in the Ophisuroids, as meml)ers of the order of Apodes, the 

 supi-amaxillary, as well as the intermaxillary bones are small. But in 

 the other families of Apodes, the nostrils preserve nearly their usual 

 ichthyic position and relation to each other. 



Milne-Edwards again urges as a previously neglected argument in favor 

 of the Amphibian nature of Leiridosiren, the opening of the ductus 

 pneumaticus of the pulmonary sacs into the ventral face of the digestive 

 canal. But we also find a similar arrangement in the species of the 

 genus Polt/pterus, animals whose piscine characters and affinities have 

 never been called in question. 



Milne-Edwards commences with the observation that the lungs of the 

 Mammals, Birds and Reptiles, as every one knows, always originate from 

 the ventral face of the digestive tube, whatever their position may be in 

 the splanchnic cavity, and it is only on the ventral side of the pharynx 

 that the opening of the glottis is found. He continues and remarks that 

 ■' it is the same with the Lepidosiren ; and if the resemblance between the 

 lungs of all these animals and the air-bladder of the Lepisostei a'nd of 

 the Amice was as great as Mr. Owen seems to think it is, we ought to find 

 this same character of organic relationship between the oesophagus and 

 the bladder of these fish. Now, it is quite the contrary ; for the kind of 

 pseudo-glottis which establishes the communication between this cellular 

 pouch and the digestive tube, originates from the dorsal face of the 




16 



oesophagus. There exists, then, a fundamental anatomical difference 

 between these parts, whatever else may be their physiological functions, 

 and this difference furnishes a fresh argument in favor of the opinion of 

 those who consider the Lepidosiren as a reptile." 



The resemblance of the air-bladder of the Polypterus to the pulmonary 

 sacs of jLej72.'dosiVe?i has been justly insisted on by Owen. The air-blad- 

 der of Polijpterus is described by him as being double, consisting of two 

 long cylindrical lobes, but of unequal length, the left being the longest, 

 and extending through the whole length of the abdomen. It has also 

 been stated to communicate by an elongated fissure with the ventral floor 

 of the throat. The fissure is also said by Geofifroy St. Hilaire to be pro- 

 vided with a constrictor muscle. 



There is then no fundamental difference between the pulmonary sacs 

 or air-bladders of the Lepidosirenoids and the Polypteroids. If Lepido- 

 siren is to be regarded as an Amphibian on account of the communica- 

 tion of the pulmonary sacs with the inferior face of the intestinal canal. • 

 then, for the same reasons, the Polypteroids are to be considered as Am- 

 phibians. But the atilnities of the Polypteroids with the Lepidosteoids 

 of America are undeniably very great ; the latter have the lung-like air- 

 bladder communicating by a long fissure with the upper region of the 

 oesophagus, and thus agree with the fishes. The comparatively slight 

 importance of that character alone in determining the classification of 

 Lepidosiren is then evident. 



It is a fact of no little interest that the Polypteri, which have an air- 

 bladder so similar to that of the Lepidosirenes, do also, of all known fishes, 

 most resemble them in the form and development of the different elements 

 of the brain. 



The attachm.ent of the scapular arch directly to the skull is one of the 

 strongest evidences of the pertinence of the Lepidosirenoids to the class 

 of Fishes. The Protopterus annectens is asserted by Owen to have "the 

 scapular arch directly suspended to the skull, but with this peculiarity, 

 that it is connected by a synovial joint with the exoccipitals only." It is 

 the fact of suspension of the scapula to the skull that is of value in this 

 case ; the manner or means by which it is suspended is abnormal, and 

 does not occur in other fishes. Professor Owen has then remarked that 

 " in all osseous fishes, and in those Ganoids, as the Sturgeons, e-. g., that 

 come nearest to the Lepidosiren in some parts of their structure, the 

 scapula is suspended by two processes to the paroccipital and to the 

 mastoid." 



The jointed pectoral and ventral filaments of Protopterus still further 

 indicate the affinity of Lepidosirenoids to the fishes. Those of the so 

 called Rhinocryptis amphibia have been described by Peters as not 

 merely consisting of single articulated rays, "but also of cartilaginous 

 rays which emanate from the inferior margin of the main limb or principal 

 ray of the fin, and to which still finer cartilaginous filaments are attached. 




17 



These rays are not extensions of the main limbs of the fin, but are at- 

 tached ; the length of the rays diminishes towards the end of the main 

 limb or principal ray of the fin until it becomes inappreciable ; the ex- 

 tremities of the rays do not lie loosely upon the skin, but the whole fin is 

 covered by a prolongation of the skin, which also covers the principal 

 ray of the fin. In the pectoral fins, the beard of the fin is as long as its 

 ray. In the ventral fins, one-third of the length of the ray is free at the 

 base of the fin ; this then commences very low and remains much lower 

 than in the pectoral fins. In the latter, the beard of the fin external to 

 the ray is three lines broad in its widest part. This kind of formation of 

 the fins, in which the rays arise laterally from a main ray, is quite pecu- 

 liar, and we have no other example of it amongst fish, except in the dor- 

 sal fin oi Polypterus." 



The structure of the ventral fins of the singular genus Bregmdceros of 

 Thompson, or Calloptilum of Richardson, furnishes a much more evident 

 analogy to the pectoral and ventral members of Protopterus than does 

 the structure of the dorsal fin of Polypterus above cited. The ventral 

 fins of Bregmaceros mirus of Richardson, formerly described as Callopti- 

 lum rairum, is thus made known by its describer. 



Each ventral fin is " composed of three long, tapering jointed rays, 

 having oblique joints at their bases arid transverse ones near the tips. In 

 a small piece of membrane which lies in the axilla of the long raysi, there 

 are sixteen short jointed branches, which are grouped so that they rnay be 

 the tips of three, or perhaps more rays." 



The structure so described appears to be strictly analogous to that of 

 the pectoral and ventral members of the Protopieri. The genus Bregmaceros 

 is composed of two species found in the Chinese seas ; it belongs to the 

 family of Blennoids, a family which is distinguished partly by the small 

 number of rays in the ventral fins ; the number is rarely more than 

 two or three. The " three long, tapering jointed rays " of Bregmaceros 

 represent the ventral rays of the normal Blennoids, and the branches 

 which lie in the axillae of the inner rays are supernumerary, of which no 

 other group, except the Lepidosircnoids, is known to furnish an example.* 



The Proiopienis of Owen and Rhinocryptis of Peters have each only a 

 single auricle and ventricle to the heart. This has been positively stated 

 by Owen and Miiller or Peters. 



In the genus Lepidosiren, embracing only elongated species like the type 

 of the genus, the rays have been described as simple, and the heart has 

 been said to have two auricles. 



* From an examination of the figure of the male of Anableps in the eighteenth 

 volume of the " Histoire Naturelle des Poissons," it might be supposed that the 

 anal fin of that fish furnished another analogous instance. Such is not the 

 case; the artist has erroneously represented its structure. And even if the 

 anal rays were attached to the genital production as represented in the figure, 

 the case could scarcely be regarded as analogous to that of the pectoral and 

 ventral members of Protopterit^. 



2. 




18 



The close affinities of the Protopteri and Lepidosirens cannot be denied. 

 If the observations which have been made on Lepidoairen are correct, the 

 result is then only to demonstrate that natui-alists have placed too great 

 value on the partition of the heart. It is indeed certain that the presence 

 of two auricles is not even a positive character of the Amphibians. lu 

 the genus Proteus, the heart is said, by Owen, to possess a single undivided 

 auricle, and he well remarks that " were even the ' septum auricula- 

 rum ' abser*; in the Salamander or Frog, these would not, therefore, be 

 Fishes. 



It would appear, then, that doubt can not much lon<>;er be entertained of 

 the pertinence of the Lepidusirenoids t" the class of Fishes, or at least 

 to a class different from the Amphibians, if, with Professor Agassiz, we 

 ohould admit that four classes are confounded among the Fishes. The 

 more our knowledge of the anatomy of the Ganoids and the characteristics 

 of Fishes is increased, the stronger becomes the evidence of the relati..r.8 

 of the Lepidosirenoids to Fishes. The analysis of Owen, and the preced- 

 ing remarks, will fully confirm the truth of this assertion. 



If the question of pertinence of those animals to the class of Fishes is 

 decided in the affirmative, there still remain to be discussed their position 

 in that class, and the station and rank to which they are entitled. 



Miiller has formed a distinct subclass which he has called Dipnoi, and 

 which is principally characterized by the presence of true scales on the 

 body, the possession of both lungs and gills, and the internal structure of 

 the bulbus arteriosus. Can this subclass be retained ? 



The similarity of the air bladder of the Pohjpieri to the pulmonary 

 isacs of the Lepidosirenoids hr.s been already commented on. There 

 seems to be no essential difference between the two, either anatomically or 

 physiologically. The branchial arches with their branchiae are alike present 

 in each, and although iho^e o^ Lepidosiren are somewhat modified, they also 

 are essentially the same as in the Polypteri and the rett of the Ganoids, 

 The presence of cycloid scales is not decisive, for such are found to bf 

 possessed by species of the genus Ainia, and by other Cycloganoids. 



There is one difference, however, between the true Ganoids of Miiller 

 and his Dipnoi which is of considerable importance. The Ganoids have 

 been characterized by Miiller as fishes provided with numerous valves in 

 the arterial trunk. In this respect they differ from the Dipnoi. Professor 

 Owen has given the following description of the arterial trunk or bulbu? 

 arteriosus of the Lepidosiren annectens, or rather Protopteitis annectens : 



"This body presents externally a simple transversely oval form, but 

 its internal structure is more complicated than would be suspected from 

 its external appearance. It is formed by a short spiral turn of the dilated 

 aorta, which is concealed under a simple continuous outer fibrous coat : 

 the area of this part of the vessel is almost entirely occupied by two con- 

 tinuous valvular projections, or their processes, which are attached by one 

 edge to the internal surface of the aorta, and have the opposite margin pro- 




19 



jecting freely into the arterial cavity. If these internal valves were 

 straight, they would resemble the single thicker valvular process which 

 occupies the elongated bulbus arteriosus of the Siren; here, however, they 

 follow the spiral turn of the aorta." 



This structure of the arterial trunk has perhaps more analogy to that cf 

 the Amphibians than to that of fishes ; but the two longitudinal valvular pre- 

 jections or ridges of the arterial trunk of Protopterus appear, nevertheless, 

 not to be fundamentally different from the longitudinal rows of valves 

 found in the trunk of the Ganoids, especially of the Amioids. By the 

 coalescence of the valves of each of the respective rows in the bulbus 

 arteriosus of the Amice, analogous ridges would be formed. 



Another distinction from all other fishes is produced by the abnormal 

 suspension of the scapular arch only to the exocclpital bones of the 

 Lepidosirenoids. 



The importance of both of the above mentioned peculiarities is undoubt- 

 edly of considerable value, but it is very doubtful whether they alone are 

 of sufficient importance to authorize the separation of the Lepidosirenoids 

 from the subclass of Ganoids. 



The Lepidosirenoids have many affinities with the Ganoids. The brain 

 bears a considerable resemblance to that of the Polypteroids and the 

 Acipenseroids ; the persistent notochord, combined with ossified vertebral 

 elements, recalls to mind the similar structure which prevailed in many of 

 the older representatives of the subclass : the strict homology of the pul- 

 monary sacs and communication with the intestinal canal of Lepidosiren 

 and Polypterus ; the presence of a spiral valve in the intestines ; the ab- 

 dominal position of the ventral members, are all characters which indicate 

 the close alliance of the Dipnoi and Ganoids. Cycloid and regularly 

 imbricated scales are found on the recent Amioids of America, and in 

 extinct representatives of the order. We appear then justified in consider- 

 ing the internal structure of the arterial trunk, and the mode of attachment 

 of the scapula to the cranium, as of secondary value. As the Dipnoi agree 

 in all other essential respects with the Ganoids, we will then at least 

 provisionally consider them as belonging to the same great subclass for 

 which the latter name may be retained.* 



Professor Owen has for the most part adopted the classification proposed 

 by Miiller, but has not recognized the subclasses, of which six were named 



*It was not until some time after the completion of the above remarks that 

 the observation of Miiller respecting the reference by Agassiz of the genu.'* 

 Lepidnsiren to his order of Ganoids was noticed. The reasons assigned by 

 Agassiz for that act have not been stated. We do not know where that natural- 

 ist has published his observations. In his recent Essay on Classification, the 

 Ganoids are simply accepted as a class with three undoubted orders called 

 Coelacanths, Acipenseroids and Sanroids; and three doubtful ones, the Silu- 

 roids, Plectognaths and Lophobranches. It can scarcely be intended to refer 

 the Lepidosirenoids to any of those orders. We remain, therefore, in doubt as 

 to the position that Professor Agassiz would assign to them. 




20 



by that zoologist, and has united the Marsipobranchii and Pharyngo- 

 branchii, which were believed by Miiller to form distinct subclasses, into 

 one order. The Lepidosirenoids are regarded as forming the ninth order 

 in an ascending rank ; on that order, the name of Protopteri has been 

 bestowed. 



Do the Ganoids form an integral part of the class of Fishes ? Are the 

 distinctions between the Miillerian Ganoids and Teleosteans then of no 

 more than ordinal value ? 



Naturalists will admit that the diflFerences between the natural groups 

 that have been named Teleostei, Elasmobranchii, and Dermopteri, are of 

 much greater value than those which have been employed to separate the 

 Teleostei into the groups that have been called orders. It may be objected 

 to this view that orders are not necessarily of equal value. Such may be 

 admitted to be the case ; orders may be of quite unequal value. But there 

 are between the groups above named, important fundamental differences 

 which can scarcely be considered as of only ordinal value. The distinc- 

 tions between them, as well as the Ganoids, have been even regarded by 

 Agassiz as indicating classical value. While naturalists will not probably, 

 at least immediately, accept this doctrine, it must still be admitted that 

 three of those groups, if not all, are of much more than ordinal importance. 

 For the present, then, they may be regarded as subclasses. 



But it will be doubtless questionable with some whether the Ganoids are 

 entitled to an equal rank with the Elasmobranchii and the Dermopteri ; 

 whether they do not themselves belong to one subclass composed of them 

 and the Teleostei, or typical fishes. 



Although the Ganoids do not externally present the same trenchant 

 characters as the Elasmobranchii and Dermopteri ; although there is con. 

 siderable resemblance between representative genera of the Teleostean and 

 Ganoid groups ; and though the limits of those groups have been and may 

 perhaps be still considered doubtful, — there are important and permanent 

 anatomical distinctions between them, and those anatomical characters 

 have been regarded as possessing real value. While, therefore, we may 

 admit that there is not as great differences between the Teleostei and the 

 Ganoids, as between the other subclasses, we may still, believing that 

 groups need not be of exactly equal value, regard those two as representing 

 distinct subclasses. At the same time, it is admitted that future researches 

 and moie profound investigations may demonstrate the unity of those 

 subclasses. 



Those researches may also confirm the idea of the absence of homogeneity 

 in the class of Fishes, and prove that three classes are compounded under 

 that name which are equivalent to the subclasses, as here adopted, of the 

 Dermopteri, the Elasmobranchii, and the united Teleostei and Ganoids. 

 The two latter may then be found to form the subclasses of that class.* 



*There is still room for doubt as to the value of the distinctions between the 

 various groups of the cold blooded vertebrated animals. Professor Owen has pro- 




21 



The subclasses of Ganoids as now characterized may be provisionally 

 divided into four orders, for which may be accepted the names of Holostei, 

 Placoganoidei, Chondrostei and Dipnoi. 



Order HOLOSTEI Miiller. 



The order of Holosteaiis embraces those fishes provided with plates 

 which are either rhomboid and tiled or oval and imbricated. The hyoid 

 apparatus has one or many branchiostegal rays. The centre of the 

 vertebrae are either ossified or represented by a persistent notochord ; the 

 neurapophyses and haemapophyses are always ossified. The dorsal and 

 anal fins are sustained by true dermo-neural spines articulated with the 

 inter. neural spines. The scapular arch is suspended by two processes to 

 the paroccipital and the mastoid bones, and sustains well developed pectoral 

 fins provided with many rays. The abdominal ventral fins are also sup- 

 ported by several rays. The bulb of the aorta has several longitudinal rows 

 of valves. 



The order of Holosteans, as thus limited, embraces among recent fishes 

 only the fiimilies of Lepidosteoids, Polypteroids and Amioids, but the 

 number of its extinct representatives is very large. The order itself may 

 be subdivided into two suborders, to which may be given the names of 

 Rhomboganoids and Cycloganoids, — there appearing to be a certain corre- 

 lation between the form and structure of the plates or scales and the rest 

 of the organization. The first two of the three orders above enumerated 

 are Rhomboganoids ; the family of Amioids belongs to the suborder of 

 Cycloganoids. 



Order PLACOGANOIDEI (Owen.) 



This group, which is now elevated to the rank of an order of the subclass 

 of Ganoids, was first accepted by Professor Owen, as a suborder of the 

 order of Ganoidei ; the name conferred on it by Owen has been retained as 

 the ordinal designation. Its representatives ara confined to the earlier 

 ages of the world's history. Their internal skeleton was either entirely 

 cartilaginous or the noiochord was persistent. The head and anterior 

 part of the body were encased in a dense and compact helmet and coat of 

 mail. The posterior part of the body was covered with comparatively 

 small plates of various forms. 



posed that they should be considered as forming a single class, of which the 

 Reptiles and Amphibians of most modern zoologists may belong to one subclass 

 and the Fishes to another. Other naturalists consider the Amphibians as more 

 nearly related to the Fishes, and together separated from the true Reptiles by 

 the absence of the allantois which more or less envelops the embryo of the 

 latter. It might be equally appropriate to unite with Professor Owen all the 

 cold blooded Vertebrata in one class, for which the Owenian name of Hcematocrya 

 may be retained, or to separate them into five or perhaps six classes, those of 

 the Reptiles, the Amphibians, the Fishes, the Elasmobranchiates, the Dermop- 

 teri, and possibly the Ganoids. 



[Jan. 




22 



Order CHONDROSTEI, MiiHer. 



The body is sometimes naked, but in most of its species is covered with 

 more or less interrupted rows of osseous or ganoid plates of irregular 

 form. There are also many smaller plates or tubercles scattered on differ. 

 ent parts of the body. There are no true branchiostegal rays.* 



The vertebrae and their elements are cartilaginous. The skull is also 

 generally cartilaginous, but is sometimes imperfectly ossified anteriorly. 

 The scapular arch is suspended by two processes to the paroccipital and 

 to the mastoid bones ; it supports two well developed pectoral fins. The 

 ventral fins are also furnished with several rays. The bulb of the aorta 

 is furnished with several longitudinal rows of valves. 



This order embraces two families of recent fishes ; the Sturionoids of 

 tlie northern portions of the old and nnw worlds, and the Polyodontoids 

 peculiar to the rivers of the central parts of North America. 



Order DIPNOI Muller. 



The body is elongated, and covered with regularly imbricated cycloid 

 scales. Tlie centra of the true vertebrae are cartilaginous, the notochord 

 being persistent. The neurapophyses and haemapophyses with their re- 

 pective spines are osseous. The continuous vertical fin or fold, encircling 

 the posterior part of the body, is sustained by articulated rays, immediately 

 connected with the spinous processes of the neurapophyses and haemapo- 

 physes. The scapular arch is suspended only to the exoccipital bone, 

 and supports on each side a simple unjointed or articulated ray. The 

 ventral fins are also represented by a simple ray on each side. The bulb 

 of the aorta is furnished internally with tvro spiral ridges or valves. 



Of this order, only a single family, embracing two genera, is known. 

 The genus Lepidosiren, of Natterer, is confined to South America, and the 

 Protopteri, of Owen, to Africa. 



Subclass ELASMOBRANCHII Bon. 

 The Elasmobranchii of Bonaparte and Muller have the eudo-skeletou 

 or vertebral column and skull cartilaginous, or very imperfectly ossified. 

 The exo-skeleton is developed in the form of placoid granules. The 

 brain is much more complex and highly developed than in the true fishes: 

 tlie optic nerves are connected by a commissure, but do not cross each 

 other. The hidhus arteriosus or aorta has a thick muscular coat, and is 

 provided with at least two rows of semilunar valves. The intestine has a 

 spiral valve. The males are provided with the so-called " claspers," which 

 are present as appendages to the posterior edges of the ventral fins ; fe- 

 cundation is effected by copulation. The branchial apertures are usually 

 five in number, and are generally all external. There is no air bladder. 



*This character must be accepted with some modification ; the ceratohyal of 

 the representatives of the genus Polyodon has on each side an appendage 

 which is evidently homologous to the branchiostegal rays of other fishes. 




23 



There are two orders in this sub-class, the Plagiostomi and the Holo - 

 r.ephali, which may be briefly distinguished as follows : 



Order PLAGIOSTOMI Dumeril. 



There are almost always five external branchial apertures, the only ex- 

 ceptions occurring in the family of Notidanoids. In Hexanchus of 

 Rafinesque, there are six, and in the Heptranchias of the same author, 

 there are seven. 



The Plagiostoms may be again divided into four suborders, the Squali, 

 the Rhince, the Pristes and the Raue. 



Suborder SQUALI Miiller and Henle. 



The Squali are distinguished by the lateral position of the branchia' 

 apertures, free supplementary eyelids, an incomplete scapular arch, and 

 the absence of a naso-pectoral cartilage. The form is always more or less 

 elongated and subcylindrical. 



In the suborder, as now restricted, only the sharks are included. The 

 Rhince or Squatince, embraced in the group by Miiller and Henle, may be 

 considered as representing another suborder. 



Suborder RHJN^ Gill. 



This suborder is principally distinguished from the Squali by the de- 

 pressed head and body, and the dorsal position of the eyes. As in the 

 Squali, the branchial apertures are situated on the sides, but are placed 

 in a furrow, which separates the large and anteriorly expanded pectoral 

 fins from the body. The mouth is at the extremity of the snout. 



This group contains only one genus represented by three species. 



Suborder PRISTES Gill. 



The Pristes have the elongated and subcylindrical bodies of the Squali, 

 but the branchial apertures are open, as in the Rays, on the ventral sur- 

 face of the breast. The snout is prolonged into a long, narrow and de- 

 pressed dagger-like beak, which are provided with strong osseous spines 

 or teeth on each side. The teeth of the jaws are flat and paved. 



This suborder embraces living repi'esentatives of only one genus, which 

 must be referred to a peculiar family, that of the Pnstoids, It is repre- 

 sented by a single species on the American coast. 



Suborder RAI^ Miiller and Henle. 



The Rai^ have the branchial apertures beneath the body under the 

 pectoral fins and before the ventrals. The eyes and spout-holes are 

 always on the dorsal aspect of the head; the scapular arch complete, 

 and naso-pectoral cartilages present. There is no eyelid, or only an ad- 

 nate upper one. 



In this suborder, the Rays and allied fishes, with similar depressed 

 bodies, are alone embraced. 




24 



Order HOLOCEPHALI Bon. 



In the species of this order, there is only one branchial fissure on each 

 side as in true fishes. 



No representatives of the Holocephalz have yet been detected on the 

 Eastern American Coast. 



Subclass DERMOPTERI Owen. 



The fourth subclass may provisionally embrace both the Cyclostomi or 

 Marsipobranchiiand thePharyngobranchiior Cirrhostomi. Thus enlarged, 

 it corresponds to the Dermopteri of Owen, and may retain that name. 

 The body is much elongated and either subcylindrical or compressed. 

 The endoskeleton is very rudimentary and cartilaginous, and in the order 

 of Pharyngobranchii, there is no distinct head. The pectoral and ventral 

 fins are both absent. The skin is entirely naked and mucous, and the fins 

 are only folds of the skin. There are no pancreas nor air-bladder. The 

 olfactory organ and nostril are single. 



There are two orders. 



Order HYPEROARTII, (Bon.) Miill. 



The body is invariably greatly elongated and subcylindrical, or anguil- 

 liform. The head is distinct. The myelon, or medulla spinalis, is descri- 

 bed by Owen as being depressed and flattened, "of opaline subtranspa- 

 rency, ductile and elastic." The bulbus arteriosus is absent, but there 

 are two opposite valves at the origin of the branchial vessel, as in the 

 Teleostei. The branchiae are purse-shaped and inoperculate ; there are 

 seven in number on each side. Each receives the streams of water for 

 the aeration of the blood through short tubes, entering from a median 

 canal which is below and distinct from the oesophagus, and which termi- 

 nates behind in a closed wall, and, according to Professor Owen, commu- 

 nicates with the fauces anteriorly "by an opening guarded by a double 

 membranous valve." 



This order answers to the order of the same name of Miiller, and the 

 family of Petromyzontoids of the order Dermopteri of Owen. It em- 

 braces, on our coast, the "lampreys," or "lamper-eels " (Petromyzon). 



Order HYPEROTRETI, (Bon.) Muller. 



The representatives of this order resemble, in most respects, those of the 

 Hyperoartii, chiefly differing in the respiratory apparatus. The branchiae 

 are bursiform and fixed, receiving the streams of water directly from the 

 oesophagus through short tubes communicating with each sac. The water 

 is discharged through tubes which either severally open externally, or 

 into two lateral and longitudinal canals, directed backwards and dis- 

 charging by as many orifices on each side of the median line of the ven- 

 tral surface. 




25 



Order PHARYNGOBRANCHII, Mull. 



The body is elongated and compressed, and there is no distinct head ; 

 the heart is also absent. The branchiiE are free, pharyngeal and inoper- 

 culate. 



This group, embracing a single genus, the Branchiostoma of Costa, or 

 Amphioxus of Yarrell, has been made by MUller the representative of a 

 distinct subclass. Until its embryology is known, we may retain it among 

 the Dermopteri. 



A species of this genus was discovered by Dr. Stimpson and the author 

 at Beaufort, North Carolina, in the spring of the present year. 



For our knowledge of the anatomical characters of the preceding 

 groups, we have been chiefly indebted to the labors of the learned Miiller, 

 and the great English anatomist, Owen.* The classification here adopted 

 resembles theirs more than any others. The classification of Professor 

 Owen differs from that of Miiller in not recognizing the existence of 

 subclasses, and in the less relative value assigned to the Pharyngobranchii 

 and Marsipobranchii. The present arrangement is, therefore, quite dif- 

 ferent from his, as we cannot consider the differences existing between 

 the Physostomi, Pharyngognathi, Anacanthini and Acanthopteri as even 

 approximating in value to those between the orders just named, and the 

 Ganoids or Elasmobranchiates. 



The relative standing and importance of the different subclasses of 

 Fishes above recognized have been variously interpreted by naturalists. 

 Some have placed the Elasmobranchii and Dermopteri near to each other, 

 and by Professor Agassiz they were formerly united in one order, for 

 ■which the name of Placoids was proposed. In the last classification of 

 Professor Agassiz, the Elasmobranchial order called Selachians and the 

 Marsipobranchial Dermopteri called Myzontes are regarded as belonging to 

 different classes between which the Ganoids and Fishes, which are also 

 considered as classes, are interposed. Other naturalists have regarded 

 those two subclasses as representing the opposite extremes of the class, 

 and have placed the Elasmobranchii in the first rank and the Dermopteri 

 lowest. Those different allocations have resulted from different points 

 of view from which the groups have been examined. Those naturalists 

 who have approximated the Elasmobranchii and Dermopteri were princi- 

 pally influenced by the cartilaginous condition of the skeleton ; those 

 who placed the Elasmobranchii in the highest rank looked to the special 



*We have been especially under obligation to the invaluable " Lectures on 

 the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Vertebrate Animals, deliv- 

 ered at the Royal College of Surgeons of England in 1844 and 184t3." The 

 first part, devoted to the Fishes, is rich in information on the structure of 

 those animals. It is the only one that has yet been published. 




26 



development of some of the systems, especially the nervous and genera- 

 tive. We will follow Cuvier, and the majority of ichthyologists, in pla- 

 cing next to each other the Dermopteri and Blasmobranchii, and then, in 

 ascending order, will succeed the Ganoids and finally the Teleostei. The 

 considerations which have led us to these results will be briefly stated. 



Fishes appear to be constructed according to four different sub-plans, 

 which are characterized by their correspondence to different stages or 

 grades of development of a typical osseous fish. The types so distin- 

 guished are equivalent to the four subclasses here admitted. All the sub- 

 classes are constructed on the ichthyic modification of the vertebrated 

 plan, but the archetype of each subclass corresponds, in a general man- 

 ner, to different periods of development of that plan Avhich have success- 

 ively taken place. 



A plan will admit of great modification or adaptation. Species con- 

 structed according to an inferior plan do not necessarily exhibit complex- 

 ity of organization of less degree than those constructed on a higher 

 plan. Species framed on inferior plans are capable of a high degree of or- 

 ganization consistent with the plan. The degree of development of the 

 plan or type is the criterion of the station of a group ; not the complexity 

 of organization, or adaptation to peculiar habits or modes of life. Ap- 

 plying these principles to the relative classification of the different sub- 

 classes of Fishes, we have the following results. 



The Dermopteri are the lowest in the scale ; they represent an early 

 stage of development of the archetype fish. The subclass exhibits no 

 examples of complexity of organization, or specialization and develop- 

 ment of any system or set of organs. 



The type of structure of the Blasmobranchii is more perfected, and 

 represents the development of the archetype fish arrested at a more ad- 

 vanced period. It still exhibits many embryonic characteristics, but on 

 account of the complexity and high degree of development and adaptation 

 of special systems or sets of organs, exhibits a high upward tendency. 



The subclass of the Ganoids represents a still more advanced period of 

 development, which is more remote from the germ of the embryo than 

 that of either of the preceding. Representatives of this subclass also 

 exhibit a high degree of special development of different systems, but this 

 is of subordinate value to the plan or type of structure. 



Finally, the sub-plan of the Teleostei represents the perfected idea of 

 the ichthyic development of the vertebrated plan. For the sake of illus- 

 tration, it may be said to exhibit the highest advance consistent with the 

 preservation of the ichthyic type. 



The conception of the sub-plans and the range of variation exhibited in 

 each, may be represented by four vertical lines. 



The Dermopteri are to be represented by a short line. 



The Blasmobranchii may be represented by a much elongated line, 

 ■ ionimencing at a higher level than the line for the Dermopteri. 



The Ganoideialso exhibit a high upward tendency, and an approxima- 




27 



tiou towards the reptiles ; tlie line by which their standing would be 

 represented, commences at a higher level than the preceding, and although 

 elongated, would be less long than that of the Elasmobranchii. 



The Teleostei or true fishes would be represented by aline commencing 

 higher up than any of the preceding, but the line itself would be less 

 prolonged than those representative of the Elasmobranchii and Ganoidei, 

 the range of variation being much less. There is no excessive develop- 

 ment of any system or organ. The Teleosteans are typical fishes and 

 evince no tendency to approach to the reptiles. 



The principles above enunciated may be better understood by their ap- 

 plication to other departments of the animal kingdom, or to the vegetable 

 kingdom. The sequence in a descending order of the branches of the 

 former kingdom, now almost universally adopted, is first, the Vertebrata ; 

 secondly, the Articulata ; thirdly, the Mollusca ; fourthly, the Radiata. 

 and finally the Protozoa. It will be denied by no naturalist at the pres- 

 ent day, that no regular and continuous chain or series is formed by those 

 animals from the Protozoa to the Vertebrata. For although the Vertebra- 

 ta, as a group, rank higher than the Articulata, and they above the Mol- 

 lusca, and the Mollusca are superior to the Radiata, there ai'e still repre- 

 sentatives of each of those branches that evince a higher degree of intel- 

 ligence and greater complexity of organization than some of the represen- 

 tatives of the branches which precede them. The Branchiostoma or 

 Pharyngobranchii, for example, would be considered inferior to many of 

 the higher Articulata, and to the higher Mollusca, especially those of the 

 class of Cephalopods. 



The lower orders of worms, and the representatives of the inferior 

 classes of the branch of Articulates, are much inferior in complexity of or- 

 ganization to the higher Mollusks. The Bryozoa of the M olluscous branch 

 would also by almost all naturalists be considered as of an inferior grade to 

 the Echinoderms of the branch of Radiates. Many classes and orders of 

 the animal kingdom will furnish similar illustrations; it is unnecessary 

 to more than allude to them here, as instances will at once occur to the 

 practised naturalist. It will sufiice to point to the lower insects in com- 

 parison with the higher Crustaceans, and to the lower representatives of 

 the latter class and the higher worms. 



The divisions of plants which appear to correspond to the branches of 

 the animal kingdom are the Phanerogams, the Acrogens and the Thallo. 

 phytes. In the former branch, the sequence of the classes adopted by the 

 botanists is that of Exogens, Gymnosperms and Endogens. But there are 

 many Exogenous plants which afford examples of lower organization 

 than Gymnosperms, or than many of the Endogens, or even than many of 

 the Fincales* among the branch of Acrogens. 



* Are not the Ferns and their allies entitled to as high rank in their brancli 

 of Acrogens as are the Echinoderms, Acalephs and Polyps in their branch of 

 radiated animals ? And do not the Acrogens as a branch include both the true 

 Acrogens and the Anophytes ? 




28 



These examples appear to be sufficient to demonstrate that it is the 

 plan and not the speciality of structure or organization that indicates the 

 rank of groups. 



The number of species described in the Catalogue, nominally amounts 

 to three hundred and ninety-four. It it is probable that when the species 

 are thoroughly investigated, the number will be considerably reduced, 

 and that many now retained with hesitation as distinct, will be identified 

 with previously known ones. Those species that are most doubtful have 

 been indicated by an asterisk (*) after the specific name. One or two, of 

 which the genus is doubtful, has been pointed out by the same character 

 placed after the generic part of the name of the species ; when one has 

 been introduced on doubtful authority as an inhabitant of the coast, the 

 same is placed before the specific name. The describers of most of the 

 doubtful " new species " were acquainted by description with those to 

 which they are most nearly allied, and had, consequently, better sources 

 of information than ourselves. We have, therefore, not deemed it in most 

 instances proper to attempt a positive indentification, when there was a 

 reasonable doubt, — the object of this Catalogue being to present a 

 complete view of the species that have been described. In some cases, 

 descriptions of species have been very meagre, and no distinctions are 

 mentioned by which they can be distinguished from others. In other 

 instances, the descriptions have been very full and complete ; but the 

 species have been indicated with a doubt, either on account of the poverty 

 of a former description of an allied species, or from inability to refer at 

 present to the work in which the description occurs. 



The Catalogue is only intended to embrace those species found on some 

 portion of the eastern American coast, from Greenland or the Arctic 

 regions to the State of Georgia. South of that, the West Indian Fauna 

 commences, and quite a difi"erent association of forms and species occurs. 

 At a future time, a catalogue of the West Indian fishes will be probably 

 published. 



In the preparation of the Catalogue, and the acceptation of both 

 generic and specific names, we have been always guided by the law of 

 priority, except when a palpable error would be perpetuated. It may not 

 be apparent, from the list, by whom the species was originally described 

 or named. In most cases, it will be discovered on reference to the works 

 of Doctors Storer, Dekay, or Holbrook. In others, it has been found 

 that species have been named by naturalists which have been unknown 

 or not identified by those naturalists. Such instances we hope soon to 

 be able to publish our observations on. 



Many new genera have been introduced here for the first time. We 

 have been compelled to this step in order not to mislead the student in 

 regard to their generic affinities. Several well-known names have also 

 been replaced by new ones, as the former had been already preoccupied 




29 



iu other branches of natural history. In the latter case, we have always 

 carefully investigated into the history of the first name or names, and only 

 changed that of a genus when it has been ascertained that the former has 

 been legitimately conferred on an older established group, and is entitled 

 to priority. The characters of new genera, and the reason for changing 

 the names of old ones, will be published in due time. 



As we could not conveniently, except in very few cases, refer to more 

 than one author in the synonymy, we have used the work of Dr. Storer 

 on the Fishes of North America. In that compilation will be found 

 references to other authors. The synonymy of a large proportion of our 

 marine fishes has been collated ; but it is not yet convenient to publish 

 the results. When a species has not been noticed by Dr. Storer, reference 

 has been made to the first author by whom it was indicated as a native 

 of our waters. 



The true popular names, when known, have been added afterthe specific 

 name. We have not deemed it proper to invent "scientific popular" 

 ones, as we see no advantage that can be gained by their introduction. 

 They will never be used by the people at large, nor will they be recognized 

 by naturalists. There is but one true name for a species, and by that 

 name alone is it known to the scientific men of all countries. It is proper 

 to warn the unscientific reader, that because he recognizes a name applied 

 to a species, it is by no means certain that such a name indicates the same 

 species in his own section of the country. There is no constancy nor rule 

 in the application of vernacular names. The same designation may apply 

 to fifty different species, and the same species may receive, in different 

 parts of the country, fifty different names. It is, therefore, with much 

 doubt that any species is to be identified from a similarity of the popular 

 names alone. The names inserted are generally those by which the species 

 are known at New York. Those by which some are designated at Charles- 

 ton are also included. 



The author, trusting that the present list may prove of some benefit to 

 the student, and induce investigation among a class that has hitherto not 

 received a due share of attention from the American naturalist, respect- 

 fully submits it to the public. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 




30 



Subclass TELEOSTEI Muller. 

 Order TELEOCEPHALI Gill. 



Suborder PHYSOCLYSTI (Bon.) 



Family PERCOID^ Cuv. 

 Subfamily PERCINiE Gill. 

 Genus Eoccus (Mitch.) Gill. 



Eoccus LiNEATCfs Gill. " Rock Fish," " Striped Bass." 



Labrax lineatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 21. 



Genus Morone (Mitch.) Gill. 



MoKONE AMERICANA QUI. " White Perch." 



Labrax rufus {Dekay) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 22. 

 Labrax pallidas [Dekay) Storer. Loc. cit., p. 22. 

 Labrax nigricans [Dekay) Storer. Loc. cit., p. 23. 



Subfamily SERRANIN^ (Sev.) 



Genus Centropristis Cuv. 



Centropristis atrarius Barnevtlle. " Sea Bass." 



Centropristes atrarius Holhrook. Ichthyology of South Carolina, 

 p, 42, pi. vii., fig. 2. 



C^ENTROPRISTIS NIGRESCENS GUI. " Sca BaSS." 



Centropristes nigricans Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 35. 



Genus Triloburus Gill. 



Triloeurus trifurcus Gill. 



Centropristes trifurca Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 35. 



Genus Diplectrum Holbrook. 



DiPLECTRUM fasciculare Holbrook. 



Serranus fascicularis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 28. 



Genus Epinephelus (Bloch.) 



Epinbphelus morio Gill. 



Serranus morio Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 25. 

 Epinephelus erythrogaster Gill. 



Serranus erythrogaster Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 30. 

 Epinephelus nigritus Gill. 



Serranus nigritus Holbrook. Ichthyology of South Carolina, p. 173, 

 pi. 25, fig. 2. 



Epinephelus oxypterus Gill. 



Corvina oxyptera [Dekay) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 72, 

 Epinephelus acutirostris Gill. 



Serranus acutiiostris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 29. 




31 



Subfamily DULIN.E Gill. 



Genus Dules Cuv. 



DuLEs AURIGA Cuv. and Vol. " Coacliman." 



Dnles auriga Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 44. 



Subfamily RYPTICIN^ Gill. 



Genus Promicropterus Gill. 



Pkomicropterus maculatus Gill. " Soap Fish." 



Rypticus maculatus Holhrook. Ichthyology of South Oarolina, 

 p. 39, pi. 6, fig. 2. 



Family SPAROID^ Cuv. 

 Subfamily SPARIN^E Bon. 



• Genus Sparus (Linn.) Bon. 



Sparus aculeatus Gill. 



Chrysophrys aculeata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 82. 



Genus Pagrus Cuv, 



Pagrus argyrops Cuv, " Porgee." 



Pagrus argyrops Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 82. 



Genus Sargus (Klein.) 



Sargus ovicephalus Gill. "Sheep's-head." 



Sargus ovis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 80. 



Sargus arenosus DeKay. 



Sargus arenosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 81. 



Genus Lagodon Ilolbrook. 

 Lagodon rhomboides Ilolbrook. 



Sargus rhomboides Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 81. 



Family PIMELEPTEROID^ Gill. 

 Subfamily PIMELEPTERIN.^ Bon. 



Genus PlMELEPTERUS Lac. 



PlMELEPTERUS BOSCII LaC. 



Pimelepterns Boscii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 89, 



Family M/ENOIDiE Cuv. 



Subfamily MiENIN^ Bon. 



Genus Eucinostomus Baird and Girard. 



Etjci.sostomus argenteus Baird and Girard. 



Eucinostomus argenteus Baird and Girard. Ninth Annual Report 

 Smith. Inst,, p. 345. 



Genus Gerres Cuv. 



Gerres aprios* Cuv. and Val. 



Gerres aprion Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 84. 




32 



Family ZENOID^ (Lowe.) 

 Subfamily ZENIN^ Gill. 



Genus Zeus Linn. 

 Zeus ocellatus Storer. 



Zeus ocellatus Storer. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. 



Family PRISTIPOMATOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily PRISTIPOMATIN^ Gill. 



Genus Anisotremus Gill. 



Anisotremus virginicus Gill. 



Pristipoma rodo Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 76. 



Genus Orthopristis Girard. 



Orthopristis fulvo-maculatus Gill. 



Hamulon fulvo-maculatum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 76. 



Genus H^^mulon Cuv. 



HAMULON ARCUATUM Cuv. and Vol. " Grunts." 



Hagmulon arcuatum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 76. 



HiEMULON FORMOSUM CuV. 



Hsemulon formosum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 73. 



HAMULON CHRYSOPTERON CuV. 



Hasmulon chrysopteron Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 74. 



Subfamily LOBOTIN.E Gill. 



Genus Neom.^nis Girard. 



Neoji^nis emarginatus Girard. 



Lobotes emarginatus Baird and Girard. Ninth Annual Report 

 Smith. Inst., p. 332. 



Genus Lobotes Cuv. 



Lobotes surinamensis Cuv. 



Lobotes surinamensis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 78. 



Family SCIiENOIDiE (Cuv.) 



Subfamily SCI^NIN.E (Bon.) 

 Genus Otolithus Cuv. 



Otolithcs regalis Cuv. " Weak Fish." 



Otolithus regalis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 66. 

 Otolithus caroliniensis Cuv. and Val. 



Otolithus caroliniensis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 66. 

 Otolithus thalassinus Holhrook. 



Otolithus thalassinus Holhrook. Ichthyology of South Carolina, 

 p. 132, pi. xviii., fig. 2. 

 Otolithus nothus Holhrook. 



Otolithus nothus Holhrook. Ichthyology of South Carolina, p. 134, 

 pi. xix., fig. 1. 




33 



Genus Johnius Bloch, 



JoHNius ocELLATus Giravd, " Red Fish." 



Corvina ocellata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 67, 



Genus Bairdiella Gill. 



Bairdiklla argyroleuca Gill. " White Perch." 



Corvina argyrolenca Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 105. 



Genus Homoprion Holbrook. 



HOMOPRIOX SUBTEUXCATUS GUI. 



Leiostomus santhurus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. C9. 

 HoMOPRiox LANCEOLATus HolhrooTc, 



Homoprion lanceolatus HolhrooTc. Ichthyology of South Carolina, 

 p. 168, pi. xxiii., fig. 1. 



Genus Ltostomus Lacepede. 



LiosTOMUs XAXTHURUS Laccpede. " Lafayette." 



Leiostomus obliquus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 69. 



Genus Umbrina Cuvc 



Umbrixa alburxus Holbrook. '•' King Fish." 



Umbrina alburnus Holbrook. Ichthyology of South Carolina, 

 Georgia and Florida, p. 3. pi. i., fig. 1. 

 Umbrina xebulosa Cuv. 



Umbrina alburnus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 71. 

 Umbrina littoralis Holbrook. 



Umbrina littoralis Holbrook. Ichthyology of South Carolina, 

 Georgia and Florida, p. 10, pi. i., fig. 2. 



Genus Micropogon Cuv. 



MiCROPOGOX COSTATUS CuV. 



Micropogon costatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 73. 

 MiCROPOGOx uxDULATUs Cuv, and Vol. 



Micropogon undulatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 73. 



Geeus Pogonias Lac. 



PoGoxiAS CHROMis Lac. " Drum." 



Pogonias chromis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 72. 

 PoGOxiAS FASCiATUs Ctcv. and Vol. 



Pogonias fasciatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 72. 



Subfamily LARIMIN^ Gill. 



Genus Larimus Cuv. 



Larimus fasciatus Holbrook. 



Larimus fasciatus Holbrook. Ichthyology of South Carolina, 

 p. 153, pi. xxii., fig. 1. 



3 




34 



Family CH^TODONTOID^ Bon. 

 Subfamily CH^TODONTINiE (Bon.) Gill. 



Genus HOLACANTHTJS Lac. 



HoLACANTHUS ciLiARis Lac. "Angel Fish," 



Holacanthus ciliaris Stover. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 87. 



Subfamily EPHIPPIIN^E Gill. 



Genus Ephippus Cuv. 



Ephippus faber Cuv. 



Ephippus faber Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 87. 



Ephippus gigas Cuv. 



Ephippus gigas Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 87. 



Family TEUTHIDOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily TEUTHIINJE (Bon.) 



Genus Acanthurus (Forsk.) 



AcAKTHUEUS PHLEBOTOMus Bloch. " Surgcon." 



Acanthurus phlebotomus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. Hi, 



AOANTHUEUS CERULEUS BlocTl. 



Acanthurus ceruleus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 112. 



Family CAMPYLODONTOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily CAMPYLODONTIN^ Gill. 



Genus Campylodon Fabricius. 



Campylodon Fabricii Reinhardt. 



Notacanthus nasus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 100. 



Family BRAMOID^ Lowe. 



Subfamily CENTROLOPHIN^ Gill. 



Genus Palinurichthys Gill. 



Palinueichthys perciformib Gill. 



Palinurus perciformis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 99^. 



Subfamily PTERACLIN^ Swainson. 

 Genus Pteraclis Gronoviua. 



Pteraclis carolinus Vol. 



Pteraclis carolinus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A,, p. 109, 



Family CORYPH^NOID^ (Lowe,) 



Subfamily CORYPH^NINiE Bon. 



Genus Coryph^na Linn. 



CoRYPH-SNA Lesceeii Vol. " Dolphiu." 



Coryphiena Lesuerii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 107. 

 CoRYPH^NA globiceps Dekay.* 



Coryphfena globiceps Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A,, p. 107. 




35 



Genus Caranxomorus* Lac. 



Oaranxomorus punctulatus* Gill. 



Lampugus punctulatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 108. 



Subfamily PEPRILIN^ Gill. 



Genus Peprilus Cuv. 



Peprilus loxgipixnis Gill. " Rudder Fish." 



Rhombus longipinnis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 109. 



Genus Poronotus Gill. 



PoRONOTus triacanthus Gill. " Harvest Fish." 



Rhombus triacanthus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 110. 



Family LEPTUROID^ Gill. 



Subfamily LEPTURIN^ Gill. 



Genus Lepturus (Artedi) Linn. 



Lkpturus argenteus Gill. " Ribbon Fish." 



Trichiurus lepturus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 94. 



Family SPHYR^NOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily SPHYR.^NIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Sphyr^na Linn. 



Sphyr^na borealis Dekay. "Barracuda." 



Sphyraena borealis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 48. 



Family SCOMBROIDS (Cuv.) 



Subfamily SCOMBRIN^ (Bon. 



Genus Scomber (Linn.) 



Scomber ternalis Mitcliill. " Spring Mackerel." 



Scomber vemalis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 90. 



Scomber grex MitchilL* " Fall Mackerel." 



Scomber grex Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 90. 



Scomber Dekayi Storer. 



Scomber colias Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 89. 



Subfamily ORYCNLNS Gill. 



Genus Orycnus Cuv. 



Ortcnus secundi-dorsalis GiU. "Tunny." 



Thynnus vulgaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 91. 



Genus Pelamys Cuv. 



Pelamys sarda Cuv. " Bonito." 



Pelamys sarda Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 91. 



Genus Apodontis Bennett. 



Apodontis maculatus Gill. "Spanish Mackerel." 



Cybium maculatum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 92. 




36 



Subfamily CAKANGINiE (Bon.) 



Genus Carangus Cuv. 



Garangus ESCUI.ENTUS Girard. 



Caranx carangus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 101. 

 Carangus hippos Gill. "Golden Mackerel." 



Caranx chrysos Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 101. 

 Carangus defensor Girard. 



Caranx defensor Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 102. 



Carangus Richardi Girard. 



Caranx Richardi Holbrook. Fishes of South Carolina. 



Carangus falcatus Girard. 



Caranx falcatus HolbrooJc. Fishes of South Carolina. 



Genus Decapterus Bleeker. 



Decapterus* punctatus Gill. 



Caranx punctatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 101. 



Genus Blepharichthys Gil!. 



Blepharichthys crinitus Gill. " Shoemaker." 



Blepharis crinitus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 103. 



Genus Argyreiosus Lac. 



Argyreiosus vomer Lac. 



Argyreiosus vomer Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 104. 

 Argyreiosus capillaris Delcay. "Hair-finned Dory." 



Argyreiosus capillaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 104. 

 Argyreiosus unimaoulatus Batchelder. 



Argyreiosus unimaculatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 271. 



Genus Selene Lac. 



Selene argentea Lac. 



Selene argentea Brevoort. Annals Lyceum Nat. Hist. N. Y.. 

 vol. v., p. 68, pi. iv. 



Genus Vomer Cuv. 



YoMER SETiPiNNis Ayres. 



Vomer Brownii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 105. 



Subfamily SERIOLTN^ Gill. 



Genus Zonichthys Swainson. 



ZONICHTHYS ZONATUS GUI. 



Seriola zonata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 105. 

 Zonichthys Bosch Gill. 



Seriola Boscii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 105. 

 Zonichthys fasciatus Swainson. 



Seriola fasciata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 105. 

 Zonichthys leiarchus Gill. 



Seriola leiarchus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 106. 

 Zonichthys carolinensis Gill. 



Seriola carolinensis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 106, 




37 



Genus Chloroscombrus Girard. 



Ohloroscombrus cosmopolitds Girard. 



Seriola cosmopolita Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 106. 



Genus Pomatomus Lac. 



POMATOMUS SALLATRix G^j7Z. " BIub Fisli ; " Skip-jack." 



Temnodon saltator Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 108. 



Subfamily TRACHYNOTIN^ Gill. 



Genus Trachynotus Lac. 



Trachynotus argenteus Cuv. and Val. 



Trachinotus argenteus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 98. 



Genus Doliodon Girard. 



DoLiODON spiNosus ffjVarti. " Spinous Dory," 



Trachinotus spinosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 98, 

 DoLiODON carolinus Girard. 



Lichia Carolina Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p, 96, 



Genus Bothroljbmus Holbrook. 



BothroLjEMUS pampanus Holbrook. 



Trachinotus pampanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 99. 



Subfamily CENTRONOTINJE (Bon.) 

 Genus Naucrates Raf. 



Naucrates ductor Cuv. " Pilot Fish." 



Naucrates ductor Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p. 96, 

 Naucrates noveboracensis Val. " Pilot Fish." 



Naucrates noveboracensis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p, 96. 



Subfamily ELACATIN^ Gill. 



Genus Elacates Cuv. 



Elacates NIGER Gill " Crab-eatcr." 



Elacates atlanticus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 111. 



Family ECHENIDOID^ (Bon.) 

 Subfamily ECHENIDEIN^. 



Genus Echeneis Linn. 



EcHENEis REMORA Linn. " Remora." 



Echeneis reraora Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 232. 

 Echeneis brachyptera Lowe.* 



Echeneis quatuordecim-laniinatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., 

 p. 282. 

 Echeneis ' albicauda Mitcliill. 



Echeneis albicauda Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 231. 

 Echeneis lineata Holbrook.* Ichthyology of South Carolina, 



p. 101, pi. xiv., fig. 2. 

 Echeneis Holbrookii* Gimther. Annals and Magazine of Nat, 

 Hist., ser. iii., vol. v., p. 400. 

 Echeneis naucrates Linn. 



Echeneis naucrates Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 232. 




38 



Family XIPHIOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily XIPHIIN^ Gill. 



Genus Xiphias Linn. 



XiPHiAS GLADius Limi. " Swoi'd Fish." 



Xiphias gladius Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p, 95. 



Family SCOMBERESOCOID^ Rich. 



Subfamily SCOMBEKESOCIN^ Gill. 



Genus Scomberesox Lac. 



ScoMBEREsox scuTELLATUs {Les.) " Bill Fish." 



Scomberesox Storeri Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 187. 



Subfamily BELONIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Belone Cuv. 



Belone longirostris Gill. " Bill Fish," " Gar Fish." 



Belone truncata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 186. 



Family EXOCCETOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily EXOCCETIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Exoccetus Linn. 



Exoc<ETus exiliens Gmelin. " Flying Fish." 



Exocoetus exiliens Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 189. 

 Exoccetus noveboracensis Mitchill. 



Exocoetus noveboracensis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 188. 



EX0C(ETUS MELA^'URUS Val. 



Exocoetus melanurus Cuv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. 

 xix. p. 100. 



Genus Halocypselus Weinland. 



Halocypselus evolans Gill. " Flying Fish." 



Exocoetus evolans Cuv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des. Poissons, vol. xix. 

 p. 138. 



Genus Gypselurus Swainson. 



Oypselurus coMATUS Weinland. "Bearded Flying Fish. 



Exocoetus comatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 188. 

 Cypselurus furcatcs Weinland. 



Exocoetus furcatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 188. 



Family AULOSTOMATOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily SOLENOSTOMINyE Gill. 



Genus Solenostomus Gronovius. 



SoLENOSTOMUs TABACARius GUI. " Pipe Fish." 



Fistularia tabacaria Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 191. 



SOLENOSTOMVS SERRATUS Gill. 



Fistularia serrata Stores: Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 191. 




39 



Family CENTRISCOID^ Gill. 

 Subfamily CENTRISCIN^ Gill. 



Genus Centriscus Linn. 



CE>fTRisccs scoLOPAX Linn* 



Centriscus scolopax Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist., 

 vol. vi. p. 178. 



Family GASTEROSTEOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily GASTEROSTEIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Gasterosteus (Linn.) 



Gasterosteus aculeatus Linn. " Stickleback." 



Gasterosteus trachurus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 62. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus Linn., var. dimidiatus Reinliardt. 



Gasterosteus aculeatus Fabricius, Fauna Groenlandica, No. 122. 

 Gasterosteus dimidiatus Reinliardt, Kongelige Danske Videnskor 

 bernes Selskabs Nat. og. Matb. Afh., vol. vii. p. 114. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus Linn., var. loricatus Reinliardt. 



Gasterosteus loricatus Reinliardt, Kongelige Danske Videnskaber- 

 nes Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. pp. 114, 119. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus Linn., var. gymnurus Reinliardt. 



Gasterosteus gymnurus Reinliardt, Kongelige Danske Videnska- 

 bernes Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. p. 193. 

 Gasterosteus noveboracexsis Cuv. and Val. 



Gasterosteus noveboracensis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 

 63. 

 Gasterosteus biaculeatus Mitchill. 



Gasterosteus biaculeatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 63. 

 Gasterosteus niger Cuv. and Val. 



Gasterosteus niger Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 63. 



Genus PYGOSTEUS Brevoort, Mss. 



Pygosteus occidentalis Brevoort. 



Gasterosteus occidentalis Cuv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, 

 vol. iv. p. 509. 

 Pygosteus Dekayi Brevoort. 



Gasterosteus occidentalis Dekay. Zoology of New York : Fishes, 

 p. 68, pi. slii. fig. 135. 

 Pygosteus Covieri* Brevoort. 



Gasterosteus Cuvieri Girard. Boston Journal of Nat. Hist., vol. 

 vi. p. 254. 



Genus APELTES (Dekay) Brevoort. 



Apeltes quadraccs Brevoort. 



Gasterosteus quadracus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 63. 

 Apeltes millepunctatus Brevoort,* 



Gasterosteus millepunctatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 64. 




40 



Family POLYNEMATOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily POLYNEMATIN^ Gill. 



Genus Trichidion Klein. 



Trichidion Plumieri Gill. " Thread Fish." 



Polynemus Americanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 48. 



Family MUGILOID^ Richardson. 



Subfamily MUGILIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Mugil Linn. 



MuGiL ALBULA Linn. "Mullet." 



Mugil albula Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 115. 

 Mugil lineatus Mitchill. " Mullet." 



Mugil lineatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 115. 

 Mugil petrosus Val. 



Mugil petrosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 115. 

 Mugil Plumieri Val. 



Mugil Plumieri Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 116. 



Family ATHERINOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily ATHERININ^ (Bon.) 



Genus Argyrea Dekay. 



Akgvrea notata Gill. "Silver-side." 



Atherina notata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 114. 

 Argyrea mexidia Gill. 



Atherina menidia Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p. 114. 



Genus Atherina (Linn.) 



Atherika CAROLINA Vul. " Sllver-sidc," " Sand Smelt." 



Atherina Carolina Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 114. 



Family AMMODYTOID^ Gill. 

 Subfamily AMMODYTIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Ammodytes Linn. 



Ammodytes americanus Dekay. 



Ammodytes americanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 237. 

 Ammodytes dubius Reinliardt.* 



Ammodytes tobianus Fabricms. Fauna Grcenlandica, p. 140, 



No. 98. 



Subfamily ABGYROTiENIN^ Gill. 

 Genus Argyrot^nia Gill. 



Argyrot^nia vittata Gill. 



Ammodytes vittatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A,, p. 238. 




41 



Family PRIACANTHOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily PRIACANTHIN^ Gill. 

 Genus Priacanthus Cuv. 

 Priaqanthus macrophthalmus Guv. "Big-eye." 



Family BERYCOID^ (Lowe.) 



Subfamily HOLOCENTRIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus HoLOCENTRUM Artedi. 



HOLOCENTRUM SOGHO (Bloch.) 



Holocentram longipinne Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 46. 

 Family SCORP^NOID^ (Sw.) 

 Subfamily SCORP^NIN^ (Bon.) 

 Genus Scorp^na Linn. 



ScoRP^NA PORcrs Linn.* 



Scorpeena porcus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 59. 



ScORPiENA BUFO CuV.* 



Scorpaena bufo Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 59. 

 Genus Sebastes Cuv. 



Srbastes norvegicus Cuv. 



Sebastes norvegicus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 59. 

 Sebastes fasciatus Storer. 



Sebastes fasciatus Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist., 

 vol. v., p. 31. 



Family COTTOID^ Rich. 

 Subfamily COTTIX^ (Bon.) 

 Genus Acanthocotttjs (Girard.) 



Acanthocottus groenlandicus Girard. " Sculpin." 



Cottus groenlandicus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 53. 

 Acanthocottus labradoricds Girard.* "Sculpin." 



Acanthocottus labradoricus Girard. Boston Journal of Nat. 

 Hist., vol. vi., p. 248. 

 Acanthocottus mucosus Ayres.* " Sculpin." 



Acanthocottus mucosus Ayres. 

 Acanthocottus variabilis Ayres.* " Sculpin." 



Cottus variabilis Ayres. Boston Journal of Nat. Hist., vol. iv., 

 p. 259. 

 Acanthocottus iENEUs Girard. " Sculpin." 



Cottus seneus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p. 54. 

 Acanthocottus octodecim-spinosus Gill. " Sculpin." 



Cottus virginicanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 53. 

 .A.CANTH0C0TTUS MiTCHiLLi Girard. " Sculpin." 



Cottus Mitchilli Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 56. 




42 



AcANTHOCOTTUs* scoRPioiDEs Girard. "Sculpin." 



Cottus scorpioides Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 54. 

 AcANTHOCOTTus ocELLATUs H. R. Storcr. 



Acanthocottus ocellatus H. R. Storer. Boston Journal of Nat. 

 Hist., vol. vL, p. 253. 

 Acanthocottus glacialis Gzll. 



Cottus glacialis Richardson, in Last of the Arctic Voyages, p. 349. 

 pi. xxiv. 

 Acanthocottus porosus Girard. 



Cottus porosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 56. 



Grenus Gymnacanthus Swainsoa. 



Gymnacanthus patris Gill. 



Acanthocottus patris H. R. Storer. Boston Journal of Nat. Hist., 

 vol. vi., p. 250, pi. vu., fig. 2. 



Genus 



Cottus polaris Sabine. 



Cottus polaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 55. 



Genus Onchocottus Gill. 



Onchocottus quadbicornis Gill. 



Cottus hexacornis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 55. 



Genus Phobetor Kroyer. 



Phobetor tricuspis Kroyer. 



Cottus gobio Fahricius. Fauna Grcenlandica, No. 115. 



Genus Icelus Kroyer. 



IcELUs cncinatus Kroyer. 



Cottus uncinatus Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. viii., p. viii. 

 Icelus bicornis Kroyer. 



Cottus bicornis Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. viii., p. 75. 



Genus Triglops Reinhardt. 



Triglops Pingelii Reinhardt. 



Triglops Pingelii Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. v., p. 52. 



Genus Hemitripterus Cuv. 



Hemitripterus acadianus Storer. 



Hemitripterus americanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 58. 



Family AGONOID^ (Sw.) 

 Subfamily AGONINJE Gill. 



Genus Agonus Bloch. 



Agonus cataphractus Bloch. 



Aspidophorus europaeus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 57. 




43 



Agonus spinosissimus Oill. 



Aspidophorus spinosissimus Kroyer. Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, 

 ser. ii., vol. i., p. 250. 



Genus Aspidophoroides Lac. 



ASPIDOPHOROIDES MONOPTERYGIUS StOVer. 



Aspidophorus monopterygius Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 57. 

 Family TRIGLOIDiE (Bon.) 

 Subfamily TRIGLIN^ (Bon.) 

 Genus Trigla Linn. 



Trigla cuculus Linn* 



Trigla cuculus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 50. 



Genus PriOxNOtus Lac. 



Prionotus lineatus Dekay. "Flying Fish." 



Prionotus lineatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 50. 

 Prionotus carolinus Cuv. and Vol. 



Prionotus carolinus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 51. 

 Prionotus pilatus Storer. 



Prionotus pilatus Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist, 

 vol. ii., p. 77. 

 Prionotus punctatus Cuv. and Vol.. 



Prionotus punctatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 51. 

 Prionotus tribulus Cuv. and Vol. 



Prionotus tribulus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 51. 



Subfamily DACTYLOPTERIN^E Lac. 



Genus Dactylopterus Lac. 



Dactylopterus volitans Lac* " Flying Fish." 



Dactylopterus volitans Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 52. 



Family URANOSCOPOID^E (Rick) 



Subfamily URANOSCOPINtE (Bon.) 



Genus Astroscopus Brev. 

 Astroscopus anoplus Brev. "Stay-gazer." 



Uranoscopus anoplas Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 46. 

 Astroscopus guttatus Abbott.* 



Astroscopus guttatus Abbott. Proceedings of the Acad, of Nat. 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, 1860, pi. 7. 



Family BATRAHOID^ (Rich.) 



Subfamily BATRACHIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Batrachus Linn. 



Batrachus tau Linn. "Toad Fish," " Oyster Fish." 



Batrachus tau Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 132. 



Batrachus variegatus Val.* 



Batrachus variegatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p. 133. 



Batrachus celatus Dekay.* 



Batrachus celatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 133. 




44 



Family GOBIOID^ (Bon.) 

 Subfamily GOBIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus GaBiosOMA Girard. 



GoBiosoMA ALEPiDOTUM Girard. " Goby." 



Gobius alepidotus Stover, Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 125. 



Subfamily ELEOTMDINJE Ag. 

 Genus DoRMiTATOR Gill. 



DORMITATOR SOMNULENTUS GUI. 



Eleotris somnulentus Girard. Iclithyology of United States and 

 Mexican Boundary Survey, p. 28, pi. xii. figs. 1 — 3. 



Family BLENNIOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily BLENNIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Blennius Linn. 



Slennius* fucorum Cuv. and Vol.* " Blenny," 



Blennius fucorum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 117. 



Blennius* geminatus Wood. 



Blennius geminatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. Y., p. 117. 



Genus Hypleurochilus Gill. 



Hypleurochilus multifilis Gill. 



Blennius multifilis Girard. Ichthyology of United States and 

 Mexican Boundary Survey, p. 27, pi. xii. fig. 6. 

 Hypleurochilus* punctatus Gill. 



Blennius punctatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 117. 



Genus Htpsoblennius Gill. 



Hypsoblennius Hentzi Gill. 



Blennius Hentz Lesueur. Journal of Acad. Nat. Sciences of 

 Phila., vol. iv. p. 363. 



Genus Chasmodes Cuv. and Yal. 



Ohasmodes Bosquianus Cuv. and Vol. 



Chasmodes Bosquianus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 118. 

 Chasmodes quadrifasciatus Val. 



Chasmodes quadrifasciatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 119. 

 Chasmodes novemlineatus Val. 



Chasmodes novemlineatus Storer, Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 119. 



Genus Pholis Artedi. 

 Pholis carolinus Val. 



Pholis carolinus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 118. 



Genus Leptoblennius Gill. 



LEPTbBLENNIUS SERPENTINUS GUI. 



Blennius serpentinus Storer.. Proc. Boston Soc. of Nat. Hist., 

 vol. iii. p, 30. 




45 



Genus Mur^noides Lac. 



MuRJENOiDEs AFFiNis GUI. " Butter Fisli." 



Gunnellus affinis Reinliardt. Kongelige Dauske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. pp. 114, 223. 



MUR^NOIDES FASCIATUS GUI. 



Gunnellus grcenlandicus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 122. 



MUR^NOIDES MAOROCEPHALUS GUI.* 



Gunnellus macrocephalus Gtrard. Boston Journal of Nat, Hist., 

 vol. vi. p. 263. 



MuR^ENOIDES MUCRONATUS Gill. 



Gunnellus mucronatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p. 122. 

 MuRjjNoiDEs iNGENs H. R. Storcr* 



Gunnellus ingens H. R. Storer. Boston Journal of Nat. Hist., 

 vol. vi. p. 26. 



Genus Centroblennius Gill. 



Oentroblexnius nubilus Gill. 



Lumpenus nubilus Richardson, in Last of the Artie Voyages, p. 

 359, pi. xxviii. 

 Centroblennius nebulosus Gill. 



Lumpenus gracilis Reinhardt, senr. Kongelige Danske Videnska- 

 bernes Selskabs, Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. p. 194. 



Genus Lumpenus Reinhardt. 



LuMPEN'vs Fabricii Reinhardt. 



Gunnellus Fabricii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 121. 

 Lumpenus medius Reinhardt. 



Lumpenus medius Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. p. 121. 



Genus Leptoclinus Gill, 



Leptoolinus maculatus Gill. 



Lumpenus aculeatus Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskaber- 

 nes Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. p. 122. 



Genus SiiCHiEUS Reinhardt. 



Stich^us punctatus Kroyer. 



Gunnellus punctatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 121. 

 Stich^us PRiEcisus Kroyer. 



Stichseus prsecisus Kroyer. Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, ser. i. vol- 

 i. p. 25. 



SxiCHiEUS SUBBIFURCATUS Gill. 



Pholis subbifurcatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 118, 

 Subfamily ZOARCEINiE Gill. 



Genus Zoarces Cuv. 



ZoARGEs ANGuiLLARis StoreT. " Ling," " Conger Eel," 



Zoarces anguillaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 123. 



Zoarces ciliatus Gill. 



Zoarces fimbriatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 123, 




46 



Subfamily LYCODIN^ Gill. 



Genus Lycodes Reinhardt. 



Lycodes Vahlii Reinhardt. 



Lycodes Vahlii Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math, Afh., vol. vii. p. 153, pi. v. 

 Lycodes reticulatus Reinhardt. 



Lycodes reticulatus Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskaber- 

 nes Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. p. 167, pi. vi. 

 Lycodes seminudus Reinhardt. 



Lycodes seminudus Rheinhardt, Kongelige Danske Videnska- 

 bernes Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. p. 223. 

 Lycodes perspicilltjm Kroyer. 



Lycodes perspicillum Kroyer. Oversigt over det Kgl. Danske Vi- 

 denskabernes Selskabs, &c., 1844, p. 140. 

 Lycodes nebulosus Kroyer. 



Lycodes nebulosus Kroyer. Oversigt over det Kgl. Danske Vi- 

 denskabernes Selskabs, &c., 1844, p. 140. 

 Lycodes mucosus Richardson.* 



Lycodes mucosus Richardson, in Last of the Artie Voyages, p. 

 362, pi. xxvi. pp. 1 — 5. 

 Ltcodes* POLARIS Richardson.* 



Blennius polaris Sabine, in Parry's Journal of a Voyage for the 

 discovery of a Northwest Passage, &c., performed in 1819-20, 

 &c.. Supplement to Appendix, p. ccxii. 



Subfamily ANARRHICANIN^ Gill. 



Genus Anarrhicas Linn. 



Anarrhicas lupus Ltnn. "Wolf Fish." 



Anarrhicas lupus Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica. 

 Anarrhicas vomerinus {Ag.) Storer.* "Wolf Fish." 



Anarrhicas lupus partim Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 124. 

 Anarrhicas denticulatus Kroyer. 



Anarrhicas denticulatus Kroyer. Oversigt over det Kgl. Danske 

 Videnskabernes Selskabs, &c., 1844, p. 140. 

 Anarrhicas Steenstrupii Gill. 



Anarrhicas minor Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, No. 97. 



Family CRYPTACANTHOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily CRYPTACANTHIN^ Gill. 



Genus Cryptacanthodes Storer. 



Cryptacanthodes maculatus Storer. 



Cryptacanthodes maculatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 58. 



Family LOPHIOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily LOPHIIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Lophius Linn. 



LopHius americanus Val. " Angler." 



Lophius americanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 129, 




47 



Subfamily MALTHEIN^ Gill. 

 Genus Malthea Cuv. 



Malthea vespertilio Cuv. " Bat Fish." 



Malthea vespertilio Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 131. 

 Malthea radiata Gill. " Bat Fish." 



Malthea nasuta Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p, 132. 

 Malthea notata Val. 



Malthea notata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p. 132. 



Subfamily ANTENNARIIN^ Gill. 

 Genus Antennarius Com. 



Antennarius tariegatcs Gtll. " Mouse Fish." 



Chironectes laevigatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 130- 

 Antennarius gibbus Gill. 



Chironectes gibbus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 130. 



Subfamily CERATIAN^ Gill. 



Genus Ceratias Holboll. 



fjERATiAS HoLBOLLii Kroycr. 



Ceratias Holbollii Kroyer. Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift, ser. ii. vol. 

 i. p. 639. 



Subfamily HIMANTOLOPHINJE Gill. 

 Genus Himantolophus Reinhardt. 



HiMANTOLOPHus GR(EXLANDicus Reinhardt. 



Himantolophus grcenlandicus Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Vi- 

 denskabernes Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii. 



Family CYCLOPTEROID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily CYCLOPTERIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Cyclopterus Linn. 



Cyclopterus lumpus Linn. "Lump Fish." 



Lumpus anglorum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 229. 



Cyclopterus spixosus Fahricius. 



Lumpus spinosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 230. 



Subfamily LIPARIN^ Gill. 



Genus Liparis Artedi. 



LiPARis Fabricii Kroyer. 



Liparis communis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 230. 



Liparis gelatinosus Pallas. 



Liparis gelatinosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 231. 




48 

 (Suborder ANACANTHINI MiiUer.) 



Family GADOIDiE (Cuv.) 



Subfamily GADIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus- GrADUS Linn. 



Gadus morrhua Linn. " Bank Codfish." 



Morrhua vulgaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 216. 



Gadus americanps Gill.* " Codfish." 



Morrhua americana Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 215. 

 Gadus fruinosus Mitchill. "Tom Cod." 



Morrhua pruinosa Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 216. 



Gadus minutus Linn. 



Morrhua minuta Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 217. 



Gadus ojac Richardson. 



Morrhua ojac Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 217. 

 Gadus .«:glifinus Linn. "Haddock." 



Morrhua sBglifiuus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 215. 



Gadus Fabricii Richardson. 



Morrhua Fabricii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 217. 



Genus Merlangus Cuv. 



Merlangus purpureus Storer. 



Merlangus purpureus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 220. 

 Merlangus leptocephalus DeJcay.* 



Merlangus leptocephalus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 221. 



Genus Pollachius Bon. 



PoLLACHius cARBONARius BoH. " Coal Fish." 



Merlangus carbonarius Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 220. 



Pollachius polaris Gill. 



Merlangus polaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 220. 



Genus Merlucius Raf. 



Merlucius VULGARIS Fleming. "Hake." 



Merlucius vulgaris Reinhardt. Naturhistoriske Bidrag, Ac. of 

 Greenland, p. 24. 

 Merlucius bilinearis* Gill. "Hake." 



Merlucius albidus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 218. 



Genus Lota Cuv. 

 Lota molva Cuv. 



Lota molva Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, No. 106. 



Genus Motella Cuv. 



Motella Reinhardi [Kroyer.) 



Motella mustela Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. eg. Math., vol. vii., p. 115. 



Motella ensis Reinhardt. 



Motella ensis Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math., vol. vii., pp. 115, 128. 




49 



MoTELLA ARGENTATA Remhardt. 



Motella argentata Remhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math., vol. vii., pp. 115, 128. 

 Motella caudacuta Stores'.* 



Motella caudacuta Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist., 

 1848, p. 5. 



Genus Brosmius Cuv. 



Beosmius brosme White. 



Brosmius vulgaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., 

 Brosmius flavescens Lesueur. 



Brosmius flavescens Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 22 L 



Subfamily PHYCIN^ Sw. 

 Genus Phycis Artedi. 



FHi'CIS AMERICANUS CuV. 



Phycis americanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 221. 

 Phycis Dekati Kcaip. 



Phycis Dekayi Kaiip. Archiv flir Naturgeschichte, 1858, vol. i., 

 p. 89. 

 Phycis tenuis DeTcay. 



Phycis tenuis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 222. 

 Phycis regalis Kaup. 



Phycis punctatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 222. 



Subfamily BYTHITIN^ Gill. 



Genus Bythites Reinhardt. 



Bythites fuscus Remhardt. 



Bythites fuscus Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskaberces 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii., p. 175. 



Family MACRUROID^ (Bon.) 

 Subfamily MACRURIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Macrurus Bloch. 



Macrurus rupestris Bloch. 



Macrurus rupestris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 222. 

 Macrurus Norvegicus Bon. 



Macrurus Stroemii Reinhardt. Oversigt orer det Kgl. DaDske 

 Videnskabernes Selskabs, &c., 1844, p. 140. 



Family OPHIDIDIOIDiE Bon. 

 Subfamily OPHIDIINiE Bon. 



Genus Ophtdium Linn. 



Ophidium marginatum DeTcay. 



Ophidium marginatum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 235. 



4 




50 



(Suborder PHAEYNGOGNATHI Miiller.) 



Family LABROIDiE (Cuv.) 



Subfamily LABRINJE (Bon.) 



Genus Tautoga (Mitchill) Val. 



Tautoga AMERICANA Dekay. "Tautog," '' Black Fish." 



Tautoga americana Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 137. 



Genusf Ctenolabrus Val. 



Ctenolabeus burgall Gill. " Gunner." 



Ctenolabrus ceruleus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 134. 



Subfamily XYRICHTHYIN^ Gill. 



Genus Xtrichthys Cuv. 



Xyrichthys lineatus Val. 



Xyrichthys lineatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 141. 



Suborder HETEROSOMATA (Bon.) 



Family PLEURONECTOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily PLEURONECTINiE (Bon.) 



Genua Hippoglossus Cuv. 



HiPPOGLOSSUS VULGARIS CuV. 



Hippoglossus vulgaris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 223. 

 Genus Reinhardtius Gill. 



ReINHARDTIUS HIPPOGLOSSOIDES Gill. 



Pleuronectes cynoglossus Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 163, 

 No. 118. 



Genus Ch^nopsetta Gill. 



Ch^nopsetta oblonga Gill. 



Platessa oblonga Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 225. 

 Ch^nopsetta oblonga Gill, var. ocellaris. 



Platessa oblonga (partim) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 225. 



Genus Hippoglossoides Gottsche.* 



HiPPOGLOSSOIDES DBNTATUS* Gill. 



Platessa dentata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 224. 



Genus Drepanopsetta Gill. 



Drepanopsetta platessoides Gill. 



Pleuronectes platessoides Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 164, 

 No. 119. 



Genus Pleuronectes (x\rtedi) (non Bonap.) 



Pleuronectes americanus Walhaum. 



Platessa plana Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 222. 



I 




51 



Pleuronectes pusillus Gill. 



Platessa pusilla Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 223. 



Genus Myzopsetta Gill. 



Myzopsetta ferrugixea Gill. 



Platessa ferrugiaea Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 224. 

 Myzopsetta* rostrata Gill. 



Platessa rostrata H. R. Storer. Boston Journal of Nat. Hist., 

 vol. vi., p. 268. 



PleuronectincB of Uncertain Genus. 



Platessa glabra Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist.. 1843, 



p. 130. 

 Platessa quadrocularis Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist.. 



1847, p. 242. 



Subfamily RHOMBIX.^ Gill. 

 Genus Lophopsetta Gill. 



LOPHOPSETTA MACULATA GUI. 



Pleuronectes maculatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 227. 



Subfamily SOLEINiE (Bon.) 



Genus Grammichthys Kaup. 



Geammichthys lixeatus Kaup. 



Achirus mollis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 228. 



Subfamily PLAGIUSIIN.^ (Bon.) 



Genus Glossichthys Gill. 



Glossichthys plagiusa Gill. 



Plagusia fasciata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 228. 



Suborder PHYSOSTOMI (Miiller.) 



Family CYPRINODONTOID^. 



Subfamily CYPRINODONTIN.E Gill. 



Genus Cyprinodon Lac. 



Cyprinodon variegatus Lac. "Killie Fish." 



Lebias ellipsoides [Les.) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A,, p. 179. 

 Cyprinodon variegatus [Lac.) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N A. 

 p. 183. 

 Cyprixodox parvus Baird and Girard. 



Cyprinodon parvus Baird. Ninth Annual Report of Smithsoaian 

 Inst., p. 345. 



Subfamily HYDRA^RGYRIN^ Gill. 

 Genus Hydrargyra (Lac.) 



Hydrabgyra swampixa Lac. "Killifish." 



Hydrargyra swampina Cuv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, 

 vol. xviii., p. 203. 




52 



liyDRARGYRA MAJALIS Val. 



Hydrargyra flavula Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 180. 

 Hydrargtra Luci^ Baird. 



Hydrargyra Lnciae Baird. Ninth Annual Report of Smithsonian 

 Inst., p. 345. 



Genus Fundulus (Lac.) 



Ft/NDULUS HETEROCLITUS GUI. " Killifish." 



Hydrargyra fasciata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 180. 

 Fundulus pisculentus Val.* 



Hydrargyra pisculenta Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 180. 

 FUNL-ULUS zonatus Val.* 



Esox zonatus Mttchill. Transactions of Literary and Philosophical 

 Society of N. Y., vol. i., p. 433. 



Fundulus zonatus Cuv. et.Val. Hist.-Nat. des Poissons,vol. xviii., 

 p. 196. 

 Fundulus cingulatus Val. 



Fundulus cingulatus Guv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. 

 xviii., p. 197. 

 Fundulus diaphanus Ag. 



Hydrargyra diaphana Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 181. 

 Fundulus mdltifasciatus Val. 



Hydrargyra multifasciata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 181 . 



Family SALMONOID^ (Cuv.) 



Subfamily SALMONlNiE (Bon.) 



Genus Salmo Linn. 



Salmo salar Linn,. "Salmon." 



Salmo salar Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 192. 

 Salmo hamatus Cuv.* 



Salmo hamatus Brevoort. Notes on some Figures of Japanese 

 Fish. 

 Salmo carpio Linn. 



Salmo carpio Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 170, No. 124, 

 Salmo alpinus Linn. 



Salmo alpinus Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 173, No. 125. 

 Salmo stagnalis Fahricius. 



Salmo stagnalis Fabriciths. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 175, No. 126. 

 Salmo rivalis Fahricius. 



Salmo rivalis Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 176, No. 127. 

 Salmo Hearnii Richardson. 



Salmo Hearnii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 194. 

 Salmo alipes Bichardson. 



Salmo alipes Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 195. 

 Salmo nitidus Richardson. 



Salmo nitidus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 195. 

 Salmo Hoodii Richardson. 



Salmo Hoodii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 195. 

 Salmo penshinensis Pallas. 



Salmo Rossii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A.,, p. 194. 




53 



Salmo immaculatus H. R. Storer. 



Salmo immaculatus H. R. Storer. Boston Journal of Nat. Hist. 

 vol. vi., p. 269. 



Grenus Osmerus Artedi. 



OsMERUs MORDAx GUI, " Smclt." 



Osmerus viridescens Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 197. 



Subfamily ARGENTININ^ Gill. 



Genus Mallotus Cuv. 



Mallotus villoscs Cav. " Capelin." 



Mallotus villosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 202. 



Family SYNODONTOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily SYNODONTIN.E Gill. 



Genus Synodus Gronovius. 



Stnodus fcetens Gill. 



Saurus mexicanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 203. 



Genus Trachinocephalus Gill. 



Tbachinocephalus myops Gill. 



Saurus myops Cuv. et Vol. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol xxii 

 p. 485. 



Family SCOPELOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily SCOPELIN.^ (Bon.) 



Genus Scopelus Cuv. 



SCOPELUS MULLERI GUI.* 



Scopelus Humboldtii Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 198. 

 Scopelus glacialis Reinhardt. 



Scopelus glacialis Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 



Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vi., p. 110. 

 Labius exoletus Fabricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 166, No. 120. 



(not "Acantholabrus exoletus, Val.," Storer.) 



Family PARALEPIDOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily PARALEPIDIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Paralepis Risso. 



Paralepis borealis Reinhardt. 



Paralepis hov^^Xi?, Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. vii., pp. 11,5, 12,5. 



Family CHAULIODONTOID^ (Bon.) 

 Subfamily STOMIANiE Gill. 



Genus Stomias Cuv. 

 Stomias ferox Reinhardt. 



Stomias ferox Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes 

 Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol. x., p. 78. 




54 



Family MICROSTOMATOID^ Gill. 



Sobfamily MICROSTOMATIN^ Gill. 



Genus Microstoma Risso. 



Microstoma gecenlandicum [Reinliardt.) 



Microstoraus grcenlandicus Reinhardt. Kongelige Danske Tidens- 

 kabernes Selskabs Nat. og. Math. Afh., vol., viii., p. 74. 



Family CLUPiEOIDiE (Val.) 



Subfamily CLUP^IN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Clupea (Linn.) 



Olupea elongata Lesueur. " Herring." 



Clupea elongata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 204. 



Clupea minima Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 205. 

 Clupea harengus Linn. " Herring." 



Clupea harengus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 206.'! 



Genus Alausella Gill. 



Alausella parvula Gill. 



*Clupea parvulus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 205. 



Genus Meletta Val. 

 Mkletta mattowacca Val. " Fall Herring," 



Alosa mattowacca Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 207. 

 Meletta venosa Val. 



Meletta venosa Ciiv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. vii., p. 374. 



Genus Opisthonema Gill. 



Cpisthonema thrissa Gill. " Thread Herring." 



Chatoessus oglina Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 209. 

 Chatoessus notatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 209. 

 Chatoessus signifer Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 210. 



Genus Alausa (Cuv.) Val. 



Alausa sapidissima (Slorer.) Shad. 



Alosa sapidissima Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 20G. 

 Alausa* virescens Gill. 



Clupea virescens Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 204. 

 Alausa* cyanonoton (Storer.) 



Alosa cyanonoton Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist., vol. ii. 

 p. 242. 



Alausa tyrannus {Dekay.) '-'Aiewife." 



Alosa tyrannus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 207. 

 Alausa* lineata Storer. 



Alosa Imeata Storer. Proc. Boston Society of Nat. Hist., vol, ii,, p. 

 242, 



Alausa fasciata G^ll. 



Clupea fasciata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N, A., p. 204. 

 Alausa teres Cuv. et Val. Hist, Nat. des Poissons, vol, xx. p. 423. 

 (non Alusa teres DeKay.) 






55 



Genus Brevoortia Gill. 

 Brevoortia menhaden Gill. " Mossbanker." 



Alosa menhaden Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 207. 

 Alosa sadina Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 208. 

 Clupea coerulea Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 205. 



Subfamily ENGRAULIN^ Gill. 

 Genus Engraulis Cuv. 

 Engraulis vittatus Baird and Girard. "Anchovy." 



Clupea vittata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 205. 

 Engraulis Brownii Val. 



Engraulis Brownii Cuv. et Val. Hist.Nat. desPoissons, vol.xxi.,p.41. 



Subfamily DOROSOMATIN.E Gill. 

 Genus Dorosoma (Raf.) 



DoRosoMA Cepedianum Gill. 



Ohatoessus Cepedianus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 209. 



Chatoessus ellipticus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 210. 

 Dorosoma insociabile Gill.* 



Chatoessus insociabilis Abbott. Proceedings of the Academy of Nat 

 ural Sciences of Phila., 1860. 



Family CONORHYNCHOIDiE Gill. 



Subfamily CONORHYNCHIN^ Gill. 



Genus Conorhynchus Nozeman. 



CONORHTNCHUS MACROCEPHALUS Gill. 



Butrinus vulpes Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 212. 



Subfamily DUSSUMIERIN^ Gill. 



Genus Etrumeus Bleeker. 



Etrumeus TERES Brevoort. 



Alosa teres Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 208. 



Family ELOPOID^ (Val.) 



Subfamily ELOPING Gill. 



Genus Elops Linn. 



Elops saurus Linn. 



Elops saurus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 211. 



Genus Megalops Lac. 

 Megalops elongatus Girard. 



Megalops elongatus Girard. Proceedings of the Academy. of Natu^- 

 ral Sciences of Phila., 1858, p. — , 1859, p. 64. 



Order APODES Kaup. 



Family ANGUILLOID^ Sarrell. 



Subfamily CONGERTNJE Gill. 



Genus Conger Cuv. 

 Conger occidentalis DeKay. " Conger." 



Conger occidentalis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 235. 




56 



Genus Isognatha (DeKay.)* 

 IsoGNATHA ocEANiCA DeKay. 



Anguilla oceanica Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 234. 



Subfamily ANGUILLIN^ (Raf.) 



Genus Anguilla Thunberg. 



Anguilla bostoniensis DeKay. " Eel." 



Anguilla bostoniensis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 233. 

 Anguilla macrocephala De^ay. "Bull-head Eel." 



Anguilla macrocephala Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 234. 

 Anguilla serpentina Storer. 



Anguilla serpentina Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 234. 

 Anguilla argentea DeKay. " Eel." 



Anguilla argentea Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 233. 

 Anguilla Nov^-TERRiE Kaup.* 



Anguilla novas-terrEe Kaup. Catalogue of Apodal Fish in British Mu- 

 .seum, p. 45. 



Order LEMNISCATI. 



Family LEPTOCEPHALOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily LEPTOCEPHALIN^ (Bon.) 

 Genus Leptocephalus Gron. 

 Leptocephalus gracilis Storer. 



Leptocephalus gracilis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 272. 



Order NEMATOGJS AT HI Q'lW. 



Family SILUROID^ (Cuv.) Blkr. 

 Subfamily BAGRIN^ Blkr. 

 Genus Ailurichthys Baird and Girard. 

 AiLUP.icHTHYs MARiNUs Baird and Girard. " Catfish." 



Galeichthys marinus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 149. 



Genus Ariopsis Gill. 



Ariopsis Milberti Gill. "Catfish." 



Arius Milberti Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 149. 



Order PLECTOGNATHI Cuv. 



Family BALISTOID^ Cuv. 



Subfamily BALISTIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus'CAPRiscTJS Linn. 



Caprisgos fuliginosus Gill. " File Fish." 



Balistis fuliginosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 243. 



Subfamily MONACANTHIN^ Kaup. 

 Genus Canthorhinus (Sw.) 

 Canthorhinus massachusettensis Gill. " File Fish." 



IVl onachanthus massachusettensis jSforer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., 

 p. 244. 




57 



Oanthoehinus broccos Gill. 



Monacanthus broccus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 244. 



Caxthorhinus signifer Gill. 



Monacanthus signifer Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 245. 



Grenus Ceratacanthus Grill. 



Ceratacanthus aurantiacus Gill. 



Monacanthus aurantiacus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 241. 



Genus Alutera Cuv. 



Alutera cuspicauda [Dekay.) 



Aluteres cuspicauda Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 245. 



Family OSTRACIONTOID^ (Cuv.) 



Subfamily OSTRACIONTIN^ (Bon.) 



Grenus Tetrasomus Sw. 



Tetrasomus cameliwus Gill. "Trunk Fish." 



Lactophrys camelinus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 247. 



Genus Rhinesomus (Sw.) 



Rhinksomus Yalei Gill, "Trunk Fish." 



Lactophrys Yalei Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A,, p. 246. 



Family ORTHAGORISCOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily ORTHAGORISCIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Orthagoriscus (Bloeh.) 



Orthagoriscus mola Schreider. 



Orthagoriscus mola Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 243. 



Subfamily MOLACANTHIN^ Gill. 



Genus Molacanthus Sw. 



MOLACASTHUS CARINATUS GUI. 



Acanthosoma carinatum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 242. 



Family DIODONTOIDiE (Rich.) 



Subfamily DIODONTIN^ (Gill.) 



Genus Diodon Linn. 



DiODON piLosus Mitchill. 



Diodon pilosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 240. 



Subfamily TRIRHIZACANTHIN^ Gill. 



Genus Chilomycteeus Bibron. 



Chilomycterus GEOMETRicrs Koup. 



Diodon maculo-striatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 240. 

 Chilomycterus fuliginosus Gill.* 



Diodon fuliginosus Dekay. Zoology of New York, Fishes, p. 324, 

 pl.iv., fig. 181. 




58 



Diodon maculo-striatus (young) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A.,- 

 p. 240. 

 Chilomtcterus verrucosus Gill* 



Diodon verrucosus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 240. 



Family TETRODONTOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily TETRODONTIN^ (Bon.) 



(xenus Lagocephalus Sw. 



LaGOCEPHALUS LjEVIGATUS Gill. 



Tetraodon lagocephalus (partim) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., 



p. 241. 

 Tetraodon Isevigatus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p, 241. 

 Tetraodon curvus (young) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 242. 



Genus GtASTrophystjs Miill. 



Gastrophysus turgidus Gill. 



Tetraodon turgidus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 241. 



Order LOPHOBRANCHII Cuy. 



Family SYNGNATHOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily SYNGNATHTN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Syngnathus Linn. 



Stngnathus Peckianus Storer. "Pipe Fish." 



Syngnathus Peckianus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 238. 



Subfamily HIPPOCAMPIN^ Bon. 



Genus Hippocampus Cuv. 



Hippocampus hudsonius Dehay. " Sea Horse." 



Hippocampus hudsonius Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 239. 



Subclass GANOIDEI (Ag.) Miiller. 



Order CHONDROSTEI (Miiller.) 



Family STURIONOID^ (Richardson.) 



Subfamily ACIPENSERIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Acipenser Linn. 



Acipenser oxtrhtnchus MitchiU. " Sturgeon." 



Acipenser oxyrhynchus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 244. 



Genus Huso Fitz and Heckel. 



Huso brevirostris Fitz. and Heckel. " Sturgeon." 



Acipenser brevirostris Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 248. 




59 



Subclass ELASMOBRANCHII Bon. 



Order PLAGIOSTOMI Cuv. 



Suborder SQUALI (Miill. and Henle.) Gill. 



Family SQUALOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily SQUALIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Squalus (Linn.) 



SquALUS OBgcuRUS LesMeztr. ("Dusky Shark.") 



Carcharias obscurus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 251. 

 Squalus Milberti Bon. 



Carcharias (Prionodon) Milberti Mull, and Henle, Systematische 

 Beschreibung der Plagiostomen, p. 38. 

 Squalus coeruleus Mitchill- 



Carcharias cceruleus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 251. 



Lamna caudata (Dekay) Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 252. 



Genus Aprionodon Gill. 



Aprionodon puxctatus Gill. 



Squalus punctatus Mitchill. Transactions of the Literary and 

 Philosophical Society of New York, i. p. 485. (Not Dekay and 

 Storer.) 



Carcharias (Aprion)isodon, MulL and Henle. Systematische Be- 

 schreibung der Plagiostomen, p. 32. 



Genus Scoltodon Mtill. and Henle. 



SCOLIODOX TERR^-XOV^ GUI. 



Squalus (Carcharias) terrse-novae Richardson. Fauna Boreali- 

 Americana, iii. p. 289. 



Species of Uncertain Genus. 

 Carcharias Atwoodi Storer. Proceedings Boston Society of Nat. 

 Hist., 1848, p. 72. 



Family CESTRACIONTOID^ Gill. 



Subfamily CESTPtACIONTIN^ Gill. 



Genus Cestr.^cion Klein. 



Cestracion subarcuatus Gill. (" Hammer-headed Shark.") 

 Zygoena malleus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p, 256. 



Cestracion tiburo Gill.* 



Zygoena tiburo Baird. Ninth Annual Report of Smith. Inst for 

 1854, p. *337. 



Family MUSTELOID^ Girard. 



Subfamily MUSTELINE Bon. 



Genus Mustelus Art. 



MusTELUs CANis Dekay. (" Dog Fish.") 



Mustelus canis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 253. 




60 



Family LAMNOID^ Muller. 



Subfamily ISURIN^ Gray. 



Genus Oxyrhina Ag. 



OXYRHINA D^KAYI GUI. 



Lamna punctata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 252. 

 (Not Squalus punctatus Miichill.) 



Genus Carcharodon Smith * 

 Carcharodon Rondeletii Mull, and Henle.* 



Squalus (Carcharias) vulgaris Richardson. Fauna Boreali-Ame- 

 ricana, iii. p. 288. 



Subfamily CETORHININ^E Gill. 



Genus Cetorhinus Blainville. 



Crtorhinus maximus Blainville. ("Basking Shark.") 



Selachus maximus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 254. 



Subfamily ODONTASPlDIN^Bon. 



Genus EuGOMPHODus Gill. 



EUGOMPHODUS GRISEDS GUI. 



Carcharias griseus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 252. 

 Species of Uncertain Genus. 

 Carcharias littoralis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 251. 

 SquALus Americanus 3fitchill. Transactions of the Literary and Philo- 

 sophical Society of New York, i. p. 483. 



Family ALOPECIOID^ Ag. 



Subfamily ALOPECIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Alopias Raf. 



Alopias vulpes Bon. (" Fox Shark," or "Thrasher.") 



Alopias vulpes Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 253. 



Family SPINACOID^ (Rich.) 



Subfamily SPINACINiE (Bon.) 



Genus Acanthias (Risso.) 



AcAKTUiAS Amertcanus Storcr. (" Spiked Dog Fish.") 



Acanthias Americanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 254. 



Genus Centroscyllium Miill. and Henle. 



Ckntroscyllium Fabricii Mull, and Henle, 



Squalus acanthias Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 126, No. 88. 



Family SCYMNOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily SCYMNIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus SoMNiosus Les. 



SOMNIOSUS MICKOCEPHALUS Gill. 



Squalus carcharias Fabricius. Fauna GroBnlandica, p. 127, No. 89. 

 SoMNiosus BREvipiNNA Les.* " Sleeper." 



Scymnus brevipinna Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 255. 




61 



Suborder RHINJ^ Gill. 



Family SQUATINOIDiE (Bon.) 



Subfamily SQUATININ^ (Bon. 



Genus Khina Klein. 



Rhina DfjMERiLi* Gill. "Angel Fish." 



Squatina Dumerili Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 256. 



Suborder PRISTES Gill. 



Family PRISTOID^ Ag. 



Subfamily PRISTINE (Bon.) 



Genus Pristis Latham. 



Pristis antiquorum* Lathum. " Saw Fish." 



Pristis antiquorum Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 257. 



Suborder RAI^ (M. & H.) Gill. 



Family TORPEDINOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily TORPEDININ.^ (Bon.) 



Genus Narcacion Klein. 



Narcacion occidentale Gill. " Torpedo." 



Torpedo occidentalis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 264. < 



Family RAIOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily RAIAIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Raia Linn. 



Raia l^vis Mitchill. " Ray." 



Raia Isevis Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 259. 

 Raia diaphanes Mitch-ill. 



Raia diaphanes Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 258. 

 Raia erinacea Mitchill. 



Raia erinacea Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 259. 

 Raia Americana Dekay. ' 



Raia Americana Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 260. 

 Raia ocellata Mitchill.* 



Raia ocellata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 258. 

 Raia chantenay Lesueur.* 



Raia chantenay Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 260. 

 Raia radiata Donovan. 



Raia fuUonica Fahricius. Fauna Groenlandica, p. 125, No. 87. 

 Raia eglanteria Lesueur.* 



Raia eglantera Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 260. 




\ 



62 



Family TRYGONOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily TRYGONINiE (Bon.) 



Genus Trygon Adanson. 



Tryoon Sayi 3Iull. and Henle. " Sting Eay." 



Myliobatis Say Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 262. 



Trygon hastata* Storer. 



Trygon hastata Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A,, p, 261. 



Genus Pteroplatea Miill. and Henle. 



Pteroplatea Maclura Mali, and Henle.* 



Trygon Maclura Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., 261. 



Family MYLIOBATOID^ (Mull, and Henle.) 



Subfamily MYLIOBATIN^ (Bon.) I 



Genus Myliobatis Dum. 



Mtliobatis bispinosus Storer. 



Myliobatis acuta Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 262. 



Genus ^tobatis Miiller and Henle. "" 



^TOBATis NARiNARi M'till. and Henle. 



. JEtobatis guttata Storer. Catalogue of the Fauna of South ■ 

 Carolina, p. 13. 1 



Genus Rhinoptera Cuv. 



R:.IN0PTERA QTJADRILOBA CuV. 



Rhinoptera quadriloba Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., 263. 

 Species of Uncertain Genus. 

 Myliobatis Fremenvillei Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 262. 



Family CEPHALOPTEROID^ (Bon.) ' 



Subfamily CEPHALOPTERIN.E (Bon.) 



Genus Ceratoptera Miill. and Henle. 



Ceratoptera vampirus Gill. " Devil Fish." 



Cephaloptera vampirus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 264. 

 Diabolichthys EUiottii Holmes. Proceedings of Elliott Society of 

 Nat. Hist. 



Subclass DERMOPTERI (Owen.) 



Order HYPEROARTIl (Bod.) 



Family PETROMYZONTOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily PETROMYZONTIN^ Gill. 



Genus Petromyzon (Linn.) 

 Petromyzon americanus Lesueur. "Lamprey." 



Petromyzon americanus Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 265. 




63 



Petromtzon nigricans Lesueur. 



Petromyzon nigricans Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., p. 265. 



Genus IcHTHYOMYZON Girard. 



ICHTHYOMYZON APPENDIX Girard. 



Petromyzon appendix Storer. Synopsis Fishes N. A., 266. 



Order HYPEROTRETI (Bon.) 



Family MYXINOID^ (Miiller.) 

 Subfamily MYXININ^ (Bon.) 



Genus Myxine Linn. 



Myxine glutinosa Linn. 



Myxine glutinosa Fabricius. Fauna GrcBulandica, p. 344, No. 334. 

 Myxine limosa Girard.* 



Myxine limosa Girard. Proceedings of the A^cademy of Natural 

 Sciences of Phila., 1858, p. 



Order PHARTNGOBRANCHIKMiiWer.) 



Family BRANCHIOSTOMOID^ (Bon.) 



Subfamily BRANCHIOSTOMIN^ (Bon.) 



Genus Branchiostoma Costa. 

 Branchiostoma sp. 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Genus Labrax Klein, Gill. 



Labrax sp. Klein, Historiae Piscium promovendae Missus quintus et ultimus, 



p. 25. 

 Labrax sp. Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. 



Labrax Gill, Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada., 1860, 

 p. 111. 



Body elongated and subfusiform. Head conical in profile, mostly covered 

 with cycloid scales. Tongue furnished with teeth arranged in a marginal 

 band and in an oval patch at its base. Preoperculum posteriorly serrated, 

 below armed with spines directed forwards. Operculum with two spines. 

 Suborbital bone entire. Dorsal fins disconnected ; the first supported by 

 nine spines. Anal fin with three spines and about ten branched rays. 



There is only a single species of the genus Labrax, as that genus has re- 

 cently been restricted ; it is found in the Mediterranean Sea and along the 

 western coasts of Europe. 



Type. Labrax diacanthus Gill. 

 Syn. Labrax lupus Cuv. et Val., auct. 



Genus Dicextrarchus Gill. 

 Perca sp. Geoffrey. 

 Labrax sp. Cuv. et Val. 



Dicentrarchus Gill, Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada., 

 1860, p. 111. 



This genus has been separated from the preceding on account of the 

 presence of only two spines in the anal fin, and the smaller and less recurved 

 teeth of the inferior margin of the preoperculum. 



Only one species is known ; it has only been taken in the Mediterranean 

 Sea. 



Type. Dicentrarchus elongatus Gill. 

 Syn. Labrax elongata Cuv. et Val. 



Genus Roccus Gill. 

 Roccus Mitchill. 

 Lepibema sp. Rafinesque. 



Roccus Gill, Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada., p. 

 111. 

 Head conical in profile ; cheeks covered with cycloid scales. Tongue pro- 

 vided with a band of villiform teeth on each side and in a single or divided 

 patch at its base. Preoperculum posteriorly pectinated, below serrated. 

 Operculum armed with two spines. Suborbital bones entire. Dorsal fins not 

 united by the membrane ; the anterior with nine spines. Anal fin furnished 

 with three spines and from eleven to fourteen branched rays. 



Subgenus Roccus Gill. 



Body elongated and subfusiform. Teeth on the base of the tongue arranged 

 in longitudinal patches. 



The only known species is the common "rock fish " or " striped bass " of 

 the Americans ; it dwells in the sea, and ascends the fresh water streams to 

 spawn. 



Type. Roccus lineatus Gill. 

 Syn. Labrax lineatus Cuv. et Val. 



Subgenus Lepibema Gill. 



Body oblong-ovate and compressed. Teeth crowded at the base in a single 

 oval patch. 



1861.] 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Ouly one species of this subgenus is known ; it is found in the rivers and 

 lakes of the northern and central parts of the North American continent. 



Type. Roccus chrysops Gill. 

 Syn. Labrax multiliueatus Cuv. et Val. 



Genus Morone Gill. 

 Morone sp. Blitchill. 



Morone Gill, Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada., 1860, 

 p. 111. 



Body oblong-ovate, compressed, slightly gibbous at the commencement of 

 the dorsal fin. Head conical in profile, entirely covered vrith ctenoid scales. 

 Tongue provided only vrith a marginal band of villiform teeth. Preoperculum 

 pectinated behind and below. Operculum armed with two spines. Sub- 

 orbital bones entire. Dorsal fins joined at their base by the slightly elevated 

 membrane ; first provided with nine spines. Anal fin with three spines and 

 from seven to eleven branched rays. 



Two species are known, both of which are peculiar to North America and 

 the neighboring islands. 



Type. Morone Americana Gill. 

 Syn. Labrax Americanus Holbrook. 



Genus Lateolabrax Bleeker. 

 Labrax sp. Cuv. et Val. 

 Perca-Labrax sp. Temminck et Schleyel. 

 Lateolabrax Bleeker. 



Percalabrax Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol, i. 

 p. 70, 1859. 



Body elongated and subfusiform. Head conical in profile, covered with 

 ctenoid scales. Preoperculum serrated behind, armed below with teeth re- 

 curved forwards. Operculum with two spines. Suborbital bones entire. 

 Dorsal fins entirely separated ; the anterior with eleven spines. Anal fin sus- 

 tained by three spines and eight rays. 



The tongue is smooth, but the interbrauchial isthmus has small areas of 

 villiform teeth. 



A single species is found in the seas on the southern and south-eastern 

 coasts of Asia and the neighboring archipelagoes. 



Type Lateolabrax Japonicus Bleeker. 

 Syn. Labrax Japonicus Cuv. et Val. 



b.* * 



Jaws, A'omer and palate furnished with granular teeth. 



Genus Psammoperca Richardson. 

 Labrax sp. Cuv. et Val. 

 Psammoperca Richardson, Voyage of the Erebus and Terror, Fishes, p. 116. 



Body oblong-ovate, compressed. Head conical in profile. Preoperculum 

 with the anterior margin concealed ; the posterior serrated, the inferior eden- 

 tulous, and armed at its angle with a strong horizontal spine. Suborbital 

 boHes entire. Dorsal fins connected at the base ; the anterior with eight 

 spines. Anal fin shorter than the second dorsal, with three spines and nine 

 rays. 



One species is known ; it is an inhabitant of the Indian and Australian 

 Seas. 



Type. Psammoperca waigiensis Bleeker. 

 Syn. Labrax waigiensis Cuv. et Val. 



Genus Hypopterus Gill. 



Psammoperca sp. GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fish, &c., vol. 

 i. p. 69. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



Body ovate and compressed. Head conical in profile. Preoperculum ser- 

 rated behind, entire below, and armed at its angle with a large horizontal 

 spine. Operculum with its posterior angle subrotundate. Suborbital bones 

 serrated. Anterior dorsal with eight spines, the third of which is elongated. 

 Anal fin longer than the second dorsal, and furnished with three spines and 

 about thirteen rays. 



Type. Hypopterus macropterus Gitl. 

 Syn. Psammoperca macropterus Gdnl/ier. 



b. * * * 

 Villiform teeth on the jaws, vomer and palate ; none on the tongue. 



Genus Percichthys Girard. 



Perca sp. Cuv. et Val., Jevyns. 



Percichth.ys sp. Girard^ Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Phiada., vol. vi. p. 197, 1854. 



Body and caudal peduncle elongated. Head conical in profile, with the 

 snout obtusely rounded or convex. Preoperculum serrated behind, armed 

 below with teeth directed forwards. Operculum armed with a single spine. 

 Preorbital bones scarcely serrated. Dorsal fins connected at the base by an 

 elevated membrane ; anterior with nine spines. Anal fin armed with three 

 epines. Branchiostegal membrane on each side with seven rays. 



This genus is composed of species peculiar to the fresh water streams of 

 the temperate transandean and the southern parts of South America. 



Type. Percichthys chilensis Girard. 



Genus Percosoma Gill. 



Percichthys sp. Girard, Giinther. 



Body elongated, but with the caudal peduncle quite short. Head conic in 

 profile, with the snout obtusely rounded. Lower jaw and suborbital bones 

 cavernous. Preoperculum serrated behind, armed below with recurved teeth. 

 Operculum armed with one spine. Dorsal fins joined at the base by the 

 elevated membrane ; anterior with nine or ten spines. Anal fin armed with 

 three spines. 



The branchiostegal membrane appears to have only six rays on each side. 



A single species is known to inhabit the fresh water streams of Chili. 



Type. Percosoma melanops GUI. 

 Syn. Percichthys melanops Girard. 



Genus Deuteropterus Gill. 



Perca sp. Cuv. et Val. 

 Percichthys sp. Giinther. 



Body elongated. Head conical in profile. Preoperculum finely dentated 

 behind and beneath. Operculum terminating in a spine, above which a lobe 

 is present. Suborbital bone serrated. The anterior dorsal fin furnished with 

 nine spines ; the second long, with a spine and about seventeen rays. Anal 

 fin with three spines and about ten branched rays. 



Only one species of the genus is known ; its habitat is unknown. 



Type. Deuteropterus marginatus Gill. 

 Syn. Perca marginata Cuu. et Val. 



6. * * * 



Head entirely covered with scales. Preoperculum mostly entire. Anterior 

 dorsal with about six rays. 



1861.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus Liopropoma Gill. 

 Perca sp. Poey, Memorias sobra la Historia Natural de la isla de Cuba, vol. ii. 



Body slender and subfusiform. Head elongated, conic in profile and ante- 

 riorly acute. Preoperculum entire. Operculum armed with a strong spine. 

 Scales covering the whole head and the bases of the vertical fins. Dorsal 

 fins connected at their bases ; the anterior with six spines, the middle of 

 which are longest ; the second armed with three spines regularly increasing 

 in length. Anal fin with three spines ; the fin increasing in height poste- 

 riorly. Caudal fin emarginate. Lateral line anteriorly strongly curved. 



A single species is found in the island of Cuba. 



Type. Liopropoma aberrans GUI. 

 Syn. Perca aberrans Poey, Memorias sobra la Historia Natural de la isla de 

 Cuba, vol. ii. p. 125, pi. 12, figs. 2, 3. 



B. 



Pseudobranchiaj absent or rudimentary. Tongue smooth. Teeth villi- 

 form. 



Genus Lates Cuv. 

 Perca sp. Gmelin. 

 Centropomus sp Lacepede. 

 Lates Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. 



Body oblong-ovate and compressed. Head conical in profile. Preopercu- 

 lum serrated behind, dentated below and armed at its angle with a large 

 horizontal spine. Operculum with one spine. Suborbital bone serrated. 

 Dorsal fins scarcely joined at the base ; the anterior furnished with seven or 

 eight spines. Anal fin with three spines and about eight or nine branched 

 rays. 



The species of Lates have been only found as yet in Egypt and the rivers of 

 the East Indies and China. 



Type. Lates niloticus Cuv. 



Genus Cnidon Miiller and Troschel. 



Cnidon Muller and Troschel, Horse Ichthyologicse, vol. i. p. 21. 



Body elongated. Head conical in profile. Preoperculum serrated behind, 

 entire below and armed at the angle with a strong horizontal spine. Opercu- 

 lum spinous. Suborbital bone nearly entire. Dorsal fins two ; the anterior 

 with seven spines, the second provided with a spine and about thirteen 

 branched rays. Anal fin with three spines and about nine branched rays. 



The only species has been discovered in the Philippine islands. 



Type. Cnidon chinensis Muller and Troschel. 



Synopsis generum Shyptici et afflniam. 



THEODORE GILL, AUCTORE. 



Rhypticus Cuv. 



Rhypticus Cuv. Regne Animal, vol. ii. 



Anthias sp. Bloch. Systema Ichthyologias, Schneid. ed. 



Corpus oblongum, compressum, antice altius. Preoperculum rotundatum, 

 postice spinis crassis duabusarmatum ; operculum triaculeatum. Pinna dorsalis 

 longa, spinis duabus vel tribus portioni posteriori membrana conjunctis. Pin- 

 na analis spinis carens, vel spina minuta praedita. Pinna caudalisrotundata. 



L Rhypticus saponaceus Cuv. 



Jabonsillo Parra, Descripcion de deferentes Prezas de Historia Natural, p. 51, 

 pi. 24, fig. 2, 1787. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PUILADELPHIA. 53 



Anthias saponaceus Block. Systema Ichthyologiae, Schneid. ed. p. 310. 



T, ■• > Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. dea Poissons, vol. in. p. 63. 



Kypticus saponaceus \ ' > r 



Rypticus saponaceus Slorer, Synopsis of Fishes of North America, p. 37; ib. la 



Memoirs of American Academy, vol. ii. 

 Rhypticus saponaceus Gunther, Catalogue of Acanthopterygiaa Fishes, &c., p. 



172. 

 Habitat in mare Caribbeo. 



If. Rhypticus arenatds Cuv. and Val. 



Rypticus arenatus Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iii. p. 65, pi. xlv. 

 Rhypticus arenatus Giintker, Catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., p. 173. 

 Habitat littore Braziliano ; Cuv. and Val. Insulis Jamaica et Trinitate ; 

 Giinther. 



III. Rhypticus subbifrenatus Gill. 



Caput longitudinis totii 28 — 100; cauda quintam formans. Altitudo corporis 

 longitudinis 22 — 100 aequans. Color tiorescente-fuscu^, maculis remotis nigris 

 ornatus, caput maeularum seriem duarum pictum ; series una maculis quatuor, 

 a orbita ad opercnli membranam spiniformam currenti ; alia maculis minori- 

 bus tribns, a oculi angnlo externo-superiori ad auprascapularo currenti. 



D. iii. 23. A. 15. P. 16, V. i. 5. 



Habitat ad insulam Sancti Tbomasi in mare Caribbeo. A. H. Riise. 



IV. Rhypticus nigripinnis Gill. 



Caput longitudine longitudinis quartam superans, altitudo corporis longitu- 

 dinis quintam superans (^21 — 100.) Pinna caudalis nou longitudinis quiutam 

 formans (=19 — 100.) Color purpureo-fuscus, immaculatus, pinnis nigro margi- 

 natis. 



D. ii. 27. A. 16. P. 14. V. i. 5. 



Habitat ad " Panama," Rev. I. Rowell. 



Promicropterus Gill. 

 Rypticus sp. Holbrook, Ichthyology of South Carolina, p. 39. 



Corpus oblongura, valde dorso arcuatura. Preoperculum rotundatum, spinis 

 duabus armatum. Operculum triaculeatum. Pinnae dorsales di.'-junctae, an- 

 teriori, spinis duabus aportione radiosa remotis. Pinna analis spinis carens. 

 Pinna caudalis rotundata. 



I, Promicropterus maculatus Gill. 



Rypticus maculatus Holbrook, Ichthyology of South Carolina, p. 39, pi. vi. fig. 2. 

 Rhypticus maculatus Giinther, Catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 

 p. 173. 

 Habitat ('arolina Meridionalis littore, Holbrook ! 



Smecticds Val. 



Smecticus Val., Voyage de la Venus, Poissons, p. 305. 

 Rypticus sp. Val., olim ; Ganther. 



Corpus oblongura. Preoperculum rotundatum, postice spinis duabis arma- 

 tum ; operculum triaculeatum, Pinna dorsalis spinis decim armata, spinis tri- 

 bus anterioribus validioribus. Pinna analis spinis duabus praedita. 



I. Smecticus bicolor Val. 



Rypticus bicolor Valenciennes, Voyage de la Venus, Poissons, pi. ii- fig- 2. 

 Smecticus bicolor Valenciennes, Voyage de la Venus, Poissons (text,) p. 307. 



1861.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Rhypticus bicolor Giinther, Catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., p. 173. 

 Color corpore capiteque rubens, albida marmoratus, pinnis niger. 

 Habitat ad insulas " Gallapagos." 



Dermatolepis Gill. 



Corpus oblongo-ovatum, antice altius, compressum. Caput magnitudine 

 modicum, compressum ; e visu laterali breviter conicura. Os modicum, obli- 

 quum. Denies cardiformes in maxillis, vomere et ossibus palatinis. Preoper- 

 culum subangulatum, integrum. Operculum triaculeatum. Pinna dorsalis 

 longa, supra pinnarum pectoralium bases incipiens; poriio spinosalongior, spinis 

 undecim armata, spinis posterioribus brevibus, subaequalibus, poriio posterior 

 altior, in medio altissimus. Pinna analis spinis tribus et radiis novem vel de- 

 cim pradita. Pinna caudalis truncata. 



Dermatolepis punctatds Gill. 



Caput longitudinis totii quartam formans, corporis altitudine brevius. Color 

 purpureo-fuscus vel purpureus, capite bene nigro maculatus, corpore maculis 

 distantioribus et obscurioribus. Pinna caudalis albo-fusco maculata et margi- 

 nata. « 



D. xi. 20. A. iii. 9. P. 18. V. i. 5. 



Longitude cerciter bipedalis. 



Habitat ad Promontorium "St. Lucas," J. Xantus ! 



Descriptions of New Species of SCHIZOSTOMA, ANCULOSA and LITHASIA. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



ScHizosTOMA SpiLLMANir. — Tcsta stria'a, subcylindracea, subcrassa, luteo-fus- 

 ca, imperforata ; spira obtusa, conoidea ; suturis impresfis ; anfractibus senis, 

 valde vittatis, planulatis, ultimo grandi ; fissura obliqua subbrevique ; aper- 

 tura grandi, ovata, intus vittata, ad basim obtuse angulata ; columella alba, 

 superne incrassata; labro-acuto sinuatoque. 



Mab. — Coosa River, Alabama. Dr. Showalter. 



Anculosatuebinata. — Testa laevi, subrotundil, crassa, ponderosa, tenebroso- 

 cornea, trivittaia ; spira obtusa, vix exerta ; suturis valde impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus quaternis, ultimo pergrandi ; apertura magna, ovata, intus albida, trivitta- 

 ta, ad basim recurvata ; columella incurva, impressa ; labro acute, expauso, 

 sinuato. 



Hah. — North Alabama. Prof. JL Tuomey and Dr. Lewis. Tuscaloosa, Dr. 

 Budd. 



Anculosa Lewisii. — Testa laevi, elliptica, subcrassa subinflata, luteo-cornea ; 

 spina obtusa, vix exerta, acuminata ; suturis vix impressis; anfractibus quinis, 

 ultimo pergrandi ; apertura magna, regulariier ovata, intus albida; collumella 

 incurva, superne et inferne paulisper incrassata; labro acute, subexpanso, 

 paulisper sinuato. 



JIub. — Tennessee. James Levris, M. D. 



Anculosa Coosaensis. — Testa Ijevi, obtuso-conica, crassa, tenebroso-cornea, 

 valde vittata ; spira exerta, ad apicfs obtusa; suturis valde impressis; an- 

 fractibus quaternis. inferne suturis valde constiictis. ultimo magno ; apertura 

 rotundata, albida, intus valde vittata; columella incrassata, incurva, tenebroso- 

 purpureu; labro acute, expa^iso. 



JIab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



LiTHASiA FusiFORMis. — Tcstd sulcatii, fusiformi, subtenui, rufo-fusca, quadro- 

 vittata; spira conoidea; suturis irregulariter impressis; anfractibus senis, 

 ultimo magno et paulisper inflate ; apertura elongato-rhomboidea, intus albida, 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



quadro-vittata, ad basim canaliculata et recurvata ; columella sigmoiJea, su- 

 perne incrassata ; labro subconstricto, marline aciito. 

 Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



LiTHASiA IMPERIALTS. — Tcsta tuberculata, fusiformi, subcrassa, tenebroso- 

 cornea ; spira elevafa, conoideu ; suturis irregulariier et valde impressis ; an- 

 fractibus senis, ultimo subgrandi, superne irregulariter tubercnlatis, subinfla- 

 tis ; apertura parviuscula, elnngato-rhomboidea, intns albida, fuscis capillaris 

 instructis, ad basim canaliculata et recurvata ; columella sigmoidea, superne 

 paulisper incrassata; labro subexpanso, margiue acuto. 



Hab. — North Alabama. Prof. Tuomey. 



LiTHASiA TaoMEYi. — Testa tuberculata, valde inflata, subcrassa, tenebroso- 

 cornea ; spira obtuso conoidf-a ; suturis impressis; anfractibus quinis, ultimo 

 grandi, infra suturis oblique tuberculatis ; apertura magna, rhomboidea, intus 

 albida, obsolete vittatu, ad basim canaliculaia ; columella valde incurvata, su- 

 perne et inferne incrassata; labro expanso, margine acuto. 



Hab. — North Alabama. Prof. M. Tuomey. 



LiTHASiA SUEGLOBOSA. — Tcsta tubcrculata, subglobosa, crassa, luteo-cornea, 

 bivittata ; spira vix exerta; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quinis, ultimo gian- 

 dissimo, apud humeris tuberculatis ; apertura magna, rbomboidea, intus alba, 

 bivittata, ad basim canaliculata; columella valde incurvata, superne et inferne 

 valde incrassata ; labro expanso, margine acuto. 



Hab. — Tennessee. Prof. G. Troost. 



LiTHASiA DiLATATA. — Tcsta lagvl, subglobosa, subcrassa, glauco-virente, in- 

 fra suturis luteola, obsolete vittata ; spira obtuse conoidea ; suturis irregulari- 

 ter impressis : anfractibus quinis, ul'imo magnoet ventricoso ; apertura grandi, 

 subrhomboidea, intus fuscescente, ad basim angulata; columella iufcrue et su- 

 perne incrassata, incurva ; labro acuto et valde dilatata. 



Hab. — Tennessee. Prof. G. Troost. 



Description of a new species of NERITINA, from Coosa River, Alabama. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Neeitina Showalterii. — Testa Ifevi, rotundata, diaphana, luteo-cornea ; 

 spira valde dcpressix ; suturis leviter impressis ; anfractibus trinis, inflatis ; 

 apertura semirotuuda ; labio dilatato, albo, incrassato, edentulo etincurvato ; 

 labro dilatato, tenui, margine acuto. 



Operculum . 



Hab. — Coosa River, ten miles above Fort William, Shelby Co., Alabama. 

 E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Remarks. — The discovery of this shell by Dr. Showalter marks the first notice 

 of the genus Neritina being observed in our fresh waters. His very close 

 observation and active investigation of the waters of central and northern 

 Alabama, have enabled him to lay the naturalists of this country under many 

 obligations by new discoveries, and this is certainly one of much importance. 

 We now see for the first time that this genus, which is common in Europe, 

 Africa, Asia, South America and the West Indies, also inhabits our southern 

 fresh waters. I have great pleasure in naming the species after the discoverer. 

 This species is not closely allied to any which has come under my notice. 

 It is more rotund than usual, has a clear horn-colored epidermis, smooth and 

 shining ; the substance of the shell so thin as to permit the column to be visible 

 through it. 



It is to be regretted that among the four specimens sent to me by Dr. Sho- 

 walter, neither had an operculum. The soft parts of the animal have not yet 

 been observed. 



1861.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Descriptions of two new species of ANODONT^, from Arctic America. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Anodonta Kennicottii. — Testa, Ifevi, elliptica, subinflata, injequilaterali, pos- 

 tice obtuse biangulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis subtenuibus ; natibus promi- 

 nentibus, acuminatis, ad apices granulatis ; epidermide pallido-luteu usque 

 tenebroso-fusca, evadiata ; mai-garita cteruleo-alba et iridescente. 



Hah. — Great Slave Lake at Fort Rae, and north end of Lake Winnipeg, 

 Arctic America. R. Kennicott. 



Anodonta Simpsoniana. — Testa l?evi, elliptica, subcompressa, elongato-len- 

 ticulari, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis tenuibus ; natibus 

 prominulis, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, eradiata ; marga- 

 rita caeruleo-alba et iridescente. 



Hah. — Fort Rae, Great Slave Lake, Arctic America. R. Kennicott. 



March htli. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of twelve new species of Uniones from Alabama, by 

 Isaac Lea." 



" Remarks on a species of Osmerus, taken in the Schuylkill, below 

 Fairuiouut dam, by Thaddeus Norris." 



And were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Lea read extracts from a letter from Dr. Showalter, Uniontown, 

 Alabama, in which he expresses a belief that the genus Schizostoma is 

 found only iu the Coosa River. 



The deaths of Dr. Samuel Moore, a member, at Philadelphia, on the 

 18th of February, and of Prof. F. Tiedemann, of Heidelberg, a corres- 

 pondent of the Academy, were announced. 



March Vlth. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-seven members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled 



" Notes on new and rarer species of Diatomaceae of the United States, 

 by Francis W. Lewis, M. D.," and was referred to a Committee. 



Dr. Stewardson read extracts from a letter from Prof. Wyman, of Cam- 

 bridge, dated Feb. 24, 1861, in relation to the habits of Anableps, which, 

 swimming as it usually does upon the surface of the water, and sometimes 

 leaving that element entirely, is enabled, by the peculiar structure of its eyes, 

 to see as well in air as water, the upper half of the eye being especially adap- 

 ted to receive the rays of light from the atmosphere, the lower half, from the 

 water. 



March Idih. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 

 Forty-five members present. 



Copies of the Proceedings for January and February were laid on 

 the table. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Mr. Lea read portions of a letter from Dr. Lewis, of Mohawk, N. Y., 

 in relation to the habits and growth of Unionidie. 



In the letter read, Dr. Lewis observes that there are excellent reasons for 

 believing that the dark lines upon the exterior of the Uniones, usually supposed 

 to m irk the annual stages of growth, are really year marks, and in proof ad- 

 duces his observation upon shells found in the Erie canal near Mohawk. This 

 canal, from the 1st of April until the close of navigation, has a depth of from 

 5 to 7 feet; when closed by ice, this level is reduced so that the mud at the bot- 

 tom is frozen to the depth of from 4 to 10 inches. In early spring, the water is 

 drawn down for repairs, and the mud exposed. During summer, the canal is 

 richly supplied with materials for the growth both of the shell and soft-parts of 

 the Molluscs. Thus in summer these Molluscs grow rapidly, whilst in winter 

 there must be a period of repose, during which developement is partially (sus- 

 pended, partly because there is less food, but more certainly because the 

 Uniones burrow deeply in the mud to be beyond the reach of frost. "That 

 they do burrow, I know," says Dr. Lewis, by the following facts. In one por- 

 tion of the canal, several years ago, I found a considerable depth of frozen 

 mud enclosing Uniones, Margaritanse and Anodontae —all dead. After this mud 

 was softened by the sun, great numbers of those Molluscs made their way to 

 the surface from below. Again, in certain portions of the canal, where the 

 bottom was being excavated to the depth of 12 to 18 inches, early in spring, 

 last year, Uniones were turned up from the lowest depths, while only very 

 few had yet made their appearance at the surface. 



A certain portion of the canal, which some 7 or 8 years ago had been com- 

 pleted for about 8 or 9 years, then produced shells in which none of the speci- 

 mens I could find there presented a greater number of year marks than the 

 period would lead us to expect, if those marks be really year marks. I 

 distinctly recollect having counted the year marks of numerous specimens at 

 the time I speak of, with tlie fact before me that the shells could not have an 

 age greater than 8 or 9 years." 



In regard to the age at which various species of Naiades become capable of re- 

 producing their species. Dr. Lewis " has noticed that no ova are discoverable 

 in some species until after they have. attained two, three or four year marks." 



He thinks "Anodontae mature earlier than Margaritanae, while these latter 

 mature earlier than Uniones proper." 



In reference to the study of the developement of the Unio from its embryonic 

 form, he makes the following suggestions: — "I would isolate species from 

 each other in shallow cisterns of considerable area, permitting a small current 

 of water to enter the cisterns, so as not to agitate the stratum of mud at the 

 bottom, and provide a strainer of cloth at the point where the waste water is 

 permitted to escape, so as to retain on its inclined surface whatever minute 

 forms might be floated there. Many germs, no doubt, would thus be easily 

 accessible, without any confusion of species, and by making daily examinations 

 of the deposits on the strainer, the developement of species could be studied 

 up to that point when the true character of the Mollusc begins to be apparent." 



His efforts to transplant the Unio radiatus from the lakes to the Erie 

 canal have been unsuccessful, but in the course of them, he observed "that 

 there is not a uniformity either in form or color in different individuals. The 

 appendages of the syphons, as well as I am able to state from memory, do not 

 seem to present the same appearances in detail, in all individuals, I think, 

 however, tliat the variations in appearance may be ascribed to some habit of 

 the animal — or may relate to its momentary condition. Sex may also have 

 something to do with it." 



In a postscript he states that he is inclined to think that the marks observable 

 on Paludinse are year marks. Judging by these and the examination of the soft- 

 parts, Paludiuse, he says, begin to bear young about the third or fourth year. 

 When they begin to bear young, two, three, four or five young are the first pro- 

 186L] 




58 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



geny. The size of the young in the first progeny is not difi'erent from the size of 

 the young produced by a full grown adult, bearing from 16 to 25 young at one 

 gestation. The number of young, therefore, produced by an individual, in 

 Paludina, corresponds to the size of the parent." 



The deaths of Mr. David March Warren, on the 10th inst., and Dr. 

 Richard Clements, on the 13th inst., members of the Academy, were 

 announced. 



. March 2Qth. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-five members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Remarks on a species of OSMERTJS taken in the Schuylkill, below 

 Fairmount Dam. 



BY THAD. N ORRIS. 



Form. — Elliptical, elongated ; section oval ; breadth compared with its length 

 (exclusive of caudal) as 2 to 11, and head from tip of lower jaw to posterior 

 angle of opercle as 5 to 22. 



Lower jaw projecting, with an upward curve ; scales on all the gill covers, 

 largest on preopercle; five large recurved teeth on the tongue, the largest on 

 the extreme point ; two of the same kind on the front of the upper jaw ; no 

 teeth on the vomer, but a patch of small ones on the palatine bones and 

 maxillaries. 



Color. — Silvery steel above, with light greenish reflections ; a distinct streak 

 of bright roseate purple extending immediately above and along the lateral 

 line; sides silvery ; belly brilliantly white. Branchial rays 8. — D 11, C 20 ; 

 P 11 ; V 8 , A 15. — The second dorsal has about twenty minute but distinct 

 cartilaginous rays ,■ tail forked, upper lobe slightly longest. 



The points of difiierence between this and the 0. viri /escens are the more 

 Southern habitat of the new species, its smaller and more uniform size, and 

 the distinct roseate purple of the strtak above the lateral line. 0. viridescens, 

 (the northern smelt,) attains the length of 12 inches. I have seen the new 

 species here described in qiiantities at New Brunswick, New Jersey, but never 

 exceeding 6!, inches exclusive of caudal. 



Storer enumerates 14 rays in the pectorals of 0- viridescens, but on a re- 

 cent examination of that species I found only 11, as in the new species, and 

 that the fin rays of both are identical. 



There a) e several circumstances of interest connected with this little fish. 

 It is the smallest of all the Salmonid;e, except the two genera of Scopulus 

 and Mallotus. It is the only fish of the Salmon family besides the brook trout 

 found in our waters, and the only species of Anadromus salmonidce that 

 visits the Delaware and its tributaries. Whether this fish enters any fresh 

 rivers south of Cape Henlopen is a matter of conjecture, but I have no doubt, 

 if properly sought for, it may be found very early in the spring, in many 

 streams falling into the Delaware, particularly in rapids or near the falls of 

 a dam which obstructs the upward flow of the tide. 



It appears to visit oar waters only for the purpose of spawning, and is 

 found at the falls below Fairmount dam for a few days in February or early 

 in March. In those I examined a few days since, I found the milt partly dis- 

 charged from the male and exuding in a semi-fluid state from the vent. 

 Many of the females had cast their spawn, in others it was partially dis- 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



charged, and the ova were found sticking to the sides of the fish as they lay 

 in a hi-ap. 



I have been told that these fish can be taken occasionally in February along 

 the wharves and in the docks of the Delaware with a cast net. They are 

 taken with cast and scoop nets at Fairmount dam. They are common and 

 abundant at New Brunswick, New Jersey, on the Raritan, and it is said also 

 in the Pai=saic, though during some winters they even there are compara- 

 tively scarce. 



It is evident from the size, shape and arrangement of the teeth, that this 

 fish is extremely predatory, and in that respect more closely allied to the true 

 salmon than either of the genera of Coregonus or Thjmalhis. 



In the examination of this fish I have ascertained a fact which is also 

 worthy of note : it is, that the second dorsal or adipose fin (which in this fish 

 is transparent) lias about twenty minute cartilaginous rays ; they are 

 quite distinct, and the question arises, are there not rays in the adipose fin of 

 all the Salmonidce, though it may be covered with thick skin or fat, conceal- 

 ing the rays. The adipose fin was given for iise by the Creator, and not as a 

 useless appendage, and without the rays how else could it be contracted or 

 expanded, or moved from one side to the other ? It may be said that they are 

 merely cartilaginous, but so are many of the rays, especially near the ends or 

 border of the fins. Dr. Bridges couM not discover these rays on examining 

 this fish, as it had been dipped in alcohol, and the fin rendered opaque. 



Descriptions of twelve new species of TJNIONES, from Alabama. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Uxio NEGATUS. — Testa sulcata, subtriangulari. compressa, ad latere planu- 

 lata, postice obtuse angulata, an ice rtumla, subsequilaterali ; valvulis sub- 

 crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus subproriiinentibus, acuminatis, ad apices 

 corrugatis ; epidermide rufo-fusca, obiolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus sub- 

 grandibus, striat's crenulatisqiie ; laterMlibus subcrassis, sublongis subrectisque; 

 margarita vel alba vel rosacea et iridescente. 



//.<6 — Big Prairie Creek, Al bama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. And Columbus, 

 Mississippi. W. Spillman, M. D. 



Unio glandacecs. — Testa Isevi, subtriangulari, inflata, inaequilaterali, postice 

 subtriangulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis era-sis, antice crassioribus ; natibus 

 prominulij, crassis ; epidermide glandacea, rugosa, eradiata ; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus magnis, valde sulcalis, erectis ; lateralibus curtis, crassis, corrugatis, 

 obliquis subrectisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Ilab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio ixstructds. — Testa Isevi, subtriangulari, subcompressa, ingequilaterali, 

 postice subbiangulata, antice ro'unda ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassiori- 

 bus : natibus prominentibus, ad apices rugoso undulatis; epidermide mellea, 

 esillissime striata, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, striatis crenu- 

 latisque ; lateralibus subcuriis, striatis, obliquis subrectisque ; margarita ar- 

 genteu et iridescente. 



JIab. — Cahawba River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio trin'acrcs. — Testa lasvi, triangulari, ad umbones tumida, inaequilaterali, 

 postice angulata, antice oblique rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice et postice 

 crassioribus; natihus prominentibus, tumidis; epidermide fusco-\irente, obso- 

 lete radi^ia, striata, dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, depre.-sis striatisque ; 

 lateralibus subcuriis, percrassis, obliquis, corrugatis rectisque ; margarita ar- 

 gentfea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Uxio stabilis. — Testa laevi, triangulari, valde tumida, valde inaequilaterali, 



1861.J 




60 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



postice snbbiangulari, antice rotundata, valvulis percrassis, antice crassioribus ; 

 natibus valde prominentibus, tumidis, solidissimis, incurvis ; epidermide pal- 

 lido-mellea, eradiata, inferne striata; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, com- 

 pressis, erectis striatisque ; lateralibus crassis, curtis, obliquis, rectis corruga- 

 tisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Sbowalter, M. D. 



Unio consanguineus. — Testa laevi, valde obliqua, antice tumida et truncata, 

 postice compressa et obtuse angulata ; valvulis crassis, antice paulisper cras- 

 sioribus, naiibus tumidis, elevatis, incurvis terminalibusque ; epidermide luteo- 

 castanea, obsolete radiata, transverse vittata ; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandi- 

 bus, striatis subcompressisque ; lateralibus longis, crassis, corrugatis subcurvis- 

 que ; maigarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hnb. — Etowali River. Rev. G. White. Oostenaula River, Georgia. Bishop 

 Elliott. And Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Sliowalter, M. D. 



Unio CREBRiviTTATt:s. — Testa laevi, valde obliqua, antice tumida et truncata, 

 postice compressa rotundaque; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus; natibus 

 tumidis, elevatis, incurvatis terminalibusque; epidermide tenebroso fusca, trans- 

 verse et crebie vittata ; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, striatis corrugatis- 

 que ; lateralibus longis, crassis, corrugatis subcurvisque ; margarita argentea et 

 iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosawattee River, Alabama. Bishop Elliott. 



Unio intekventus. — Testa laevi, subobliqua, subcompressa, insquilaterali, 

 postice rotundata, antice rotunda; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus elevatis; epidermide luteo-cornea, superne radiata, inferne striata, ad 

 umbones micanti ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, pyramidatis striatisque ; late- 

 ralibus subcurtis, crassis, subebliquis subcurvisque; margarita argentea et 

 valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Shovealter, M. D. 



Unio pallidofclvus. — Testa laevi, obliqua, tumida, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice rotundata, antice rotunda ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus 

 elevatis, subincurvis ; epidermide pallido-fulva, maculata, inferne striata; den- 

 tibus cardinalibus parvis, pyramidatis striatisque ; lateralibus subcurtis, crassis, 

 subobliquis ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Eab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio porphyreus. — Testa Isevi, elliptica, ventricosa, valde inaequilaterali 

 postice obtuse biangulaia, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice cras- 

 sioribus; natibus prominulis ; epidermide rufo-fuscescente, micanti, eradiata : 

 dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, corrugatis, crenulatis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus; lateralibus longis, subcrassis, corrugatis subrectisque ; margarita 

 saturate- purpureS, et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio perpastus. — Testa IjEvi, elliptica, valde ventricosa, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse biangulata, antice oblique rotundatix ; valvulis crassiusculis, 

 antice paulisper crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus, inflatis; epidermide 

 luteo-fuscescente, superne micanti, inferne striata, eradiata ; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus parviusculis, erectis, conicis corrugatisque ; lateralibus sublongis, la- 

 mellatis, corrugatis subcurvisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Unio GRAtiuLATis. — Testa plicata, elliptica, subinflata, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subtenuibus, antice paulisper 

 crassioribus, natibus prominulis, ad apices undato-granulatis ; epidermide tene 

 broso-oliva, eradiata, transverse striata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, com- 

 pressis, obliquis, crenulatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, 

 acicularis, tenuis subrectisque ; margarita purpurascente et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Big Prairie Creek, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



Notes on new and rarer species of Diatomacese of the United States Sea 



Board. 



BY F. W. LEWIS, M. D. 



The present comnmnication contains brief notices of some of the rarer and 

 hitherto undescribed species of Diatomacese of the United States Sea Board, 

 which have fallen under my observation during the last three years, together 

 with a list of a few of the more characteristic and generally distributed coastal 

 species. 



The forms to be described are mostly salt-water or brackish. A few species, 

 however, known as fr^sh-water will be noticed where these have been found 

 domesticated along with the marine. 



I have endeavored, as far as possible, to avoid describing species unless from 

 perfect specimens; carefully rejecting all doubtful and imperfect forms. 

 Sources of error arising from the great variation in size, outline, and striation, 

 and from the absence of certain and positive indioations whereby ihe sporan- 

 gial may be detected and classified with its typical variety, I have also en- 

 deavored to guard against. The want, however, of several important consult- 

 ing authorities on this branch in the Academy's Library, together with the 

 not always satisfactory character of the material furnishing the data of this 

 paper, often consisting of muds and mixed gatherings, must be my excuse for 

 any errors or inadvertencies which may be found in its pages. 



Among those to be described will be introduced one or two doubtful forms, 

 probably sporangial, as Amphiprora pulchra Bailey, and extraordinary 

 varieties of Surirella o v a t a and Triceratium alternans, both of which last 

 are figured. 



It is proposed to consider the species to be noticed in the following order; 

 1. ''^ Neu) species and sporangial forms.^^ 2. ^^ Rare species and species not 

 hitherto noted as belonging to this country." 3. " Species characteristic of the 

 American coast." 4. " Species of universal distribution." 



The precise locality and nature of the gathering from which specimens have 

 been derived will be indicated, excepting where species are of general distribu- 

 tion and very abundant along the coast, along with such other distinctive 

 characters as may be necessary for the definition of new or doubtful species ; 

 and as it is not intended that the summary shall present a complete resume 

 of native marine species, mention of many forms known to me not referable 

 to one or other of the ;-bove four divisions will be omitted. 



It may not here be out of place to add, that the result of my limited investi- 

 gations convinces me that a rich and unexplored field lies open in the United 

 States for those whose time and attention may hereafter be directed to this 

 branch of microscopic research, a branch, umil very recently, comparatively 

 neglected in this country. Perhaps a reason for this neglect may be found in 

 the great interest attaching to the less laborious study of the numerous fossil 

 diatomaceous deposits of our country, and of the new and ever varying guanos 

 so frequently finding their way to our shores. Without any intention of un- 

 dervaluing the importance of researches on fossil botany, it may yet be doubted 

 whether results so satisfactory and important to science are likely to accrue, 

 as when the living forms are the subject of study. Nothing certainly would 

 seem so well calculated to dampen the ardor of physiological inquiry as pro- 

 longed and laborious examinations of the minute detail of the silicious skele- 

 tons of these organisms without reference had to the kind and manner of life 

 they once invested. 



As an additional argument in favor of the study of living species it may here 

 be mentioned that many of the fossil forms are still to be found as living spe- 

 cies on the coast, or under circumstances which prove them to have been alive 

 at no very remote period. It is not unusual to meet with some of these in 

 the Delaware tidal mud, and a still larger number are to be found in the blue 



1861.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



clay (old a?stuary) deposit immediately underlying it. Among these a few of the 

 most common are, Eupodiscus R a Ifs i i, E. argus, Coscinodiscus gigas, 

 C. ocul-iridis, C. centralis, Triceratium s t rio 1 atum, T, pu no ta- 

 tum, Actiniscus sirius, &c., Sceptroneis caduceus, occurs living on 

 algae at Riviere du Loup, St. Lawrence river, Goniothecium obtusum at 

 Black Rock Harbor, L. I. 



The important question, too, of the influence of locality on the growth and 

 develoijment of species no where presents itself in so interesting a point of 

 view as in this country. The large extent of its sea board, embracing every 

 variety of climate, tlie continuous chains of sestuaries and sounds along the 

 entire line of coast, and the many rivers, large and small, traversing every kind 

 of soil from the southern alluvial to the granite ranges of the north east, offer 

 an unsurpassed field for the study of this inilaence. 



Although not able to pursue the subject at this time, I cannot refrain from 

 alluding to a fact which forces itself on the mind at an early stage of these in- 

 vestigations, viz.: the great distance from the sea at which marine influences 

 continue to make themselves felt. Philadelphia is situated nearly a hundred 

 miles from the ocean, and even at the period of spring tides at least fifteen 

 miles above the faintest suspicion of brackish water, and yet quite a number 

 of the diatoms in the Delaware at this point are purely marine, and a still 

 larger number brackish. The agency of migratory fish, as the shad and low 

 swimming sturgeon, in bringing about this result, is no doubt important, but 

 will not serve to explain the presence of brackish and marine species in the 

 ditches adjoining Cooper's Creek, a tributary of the Delaware, and in Fox Chase 

 Run, some ten miles above this city, at points not within tidal range. The 

 old sestuary bed of the Delaware (blue clay) before alluded to, was very rich 

 in these forms, and by digging down a short distance at any part of the meadow 

 land bordering the river, the blue clay which contains them may be exposed. 

 An idea which naturally suggests itself under these circumstances as a solu- 

 tion of this paradoxical difficulty is, that possibly the telluric impression of 

 the subjacent soil may continue to make itself felt in the development of spe- 

 cies for a long period after the other surroundings have ceased to be favorable. 

 At all events it needs some other explanation than that ordinarily had re- 

 course to viz. tlie hardihood of these low forms of organic life, and the agency 

 of birds and fish to account for the permanent localization of marine species at 

 points apparently so unsuited to their existence. 



I. New species and Sporanrjial forms. 



1. Triceratium alternans, BaiJetj. Sporanr/lal ? — This somewhat doubtful 

 form has so few of the characters of T. alternans, that but for the occur- 

 rence of intermediate varieties the propriety of its reference to that species 

 might seem questionable. The structure of the valve is distinctly cellular, in 

 the smaller varieties indistinctly so, and that of the obtuse processes faintly 

 punctate. The largest pustules attain the size of T. f a v u s. 



Hab. — St. Mary's river, Ga., in scum of a salt marsh. 



2. Surirella pulchra, n sp. F. V. Linear narrow, often somewhat twisted. 

 V. Ovate or elliptical, alse distinct, canalicali numerous, marginal inflated as 

 in S. fa St uo s a, 6 in -001, extending for about two-fifths of the distance to 

 centre of valve, central portion smooth circumscribed on either side by a 

 coarsely striated arcuate band with harshly defined edges, and connected with 

 its fellow at a short distance from the end of the valve. Immediately exterior 

 to these bands, and separating them from the inner termination of the canali- 

 culi throughout the entire length of the valve, is a corresponding only some- 

 what narrower arcuate smooth space. Length of valve -005 to -009. PI. L I 1. 



This very beautiful form, evidently allied toS. fastuosa and S. e x i m i a, 

 Mic. Journ., difi'ers from boih in the greater number of its canaliculi and the 

 presence of the striated bands. In this respect it closely resembles the species 

 next to be described. 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Hah. — St. Mary's river, Ga., salt marsh and in tidal mud. Wliarf at Fer- 

 nandina, Florida, tidal deposit. Pier at St. Augustine, Florida. Rare. 



3. Surirella F e b ig er ii, n. sp. F. V. As in last described. V. Ellipti- 

 cal to linear ovate, sometimes broadly sphenoid, alae inconspicuous, canalicul i 

 6 a 7 in -001, straight or slightly convex, linear, reaching from the margin to 

 a striated arcuate band situated relatively to the valves as in the preceding. 

 Interspaces of the canaliculi strongly punctate. Central i^ortion similar in 

 outline to that of S. o r n a t a , elevated above the surface of the valve and 

 coarsely striate. Length of valve •006 a -OlO. PL L f. 2, 



The striking similarity in outline and number of canaliculi of this to the 

 last described species, together with the correspondence in both of the arcuate 

 striated bands, at first led me to regard these forms as merely diflerent aspects 

 of the same frustule (valve) ; but after careful examination of several detached 

 valves, by reversing the slides and other manipulations, I am led to con- 

 clude that they belong to different species. Both are very striking and showy 

 forms, more particularly the last, whose strongly marked intercostal puncta, and 

 the generally ornate character of its valve, make it a singularly beautifal mi- 

 croscopic object. S. Febigeriiis pretty generally, but not abundantly, dis- 

 tributed along the Atlantic coast. The first specimens were detected by me 

 two years ago iir mud dredged from New London Harbor, sent me by Mr. Fe- 

 biger, of Wilmington, Del., in honor of which careful and industrious observer 

 I have named the species. 



Hah. — New London Harbor mud, St. Mary river, mud from oysters. Wharf 

 at Fernandina, and more recently at Cape May salt marshes, by Mr. Febiger. 

 From its wide range of locality it will doubtless prove a common form on the 

 coast. 



4. Surirella o v a t a , Kutz, Sporangial ? PL L f . 3. This variety is not un- 

 common" in salt marshes along the Jersey coast, although specimens of the 

 size figured ai'e very rare. A comparison with the typical species will show 

 considerable points of difference, but these become less in frustules which ap- 

 proximate to the normal size, although never altogether lost. It is perhaps 

 entitled to rank as a variety of S. o v at a. Length of valve '0009 a "0050. 



5. Cymatopleura m a r i n a, n. sp. F. V. Linear, slightly inflated ends more 

 or less truncate. V. Lanceolate, very acute, undulations from 6 to 13. Sur- 

 face of valve irregularly punctate. Length of valve -0007 a -OO. PL L f. 4. 



This inconspicuous little form, although not yet found in quantity, occurs at 

 various points along Long Island Sound. As far as is known to the writer it 

 is the only marine species. 



Hab. — On algae at New London, New Haven and Black Rock Harbors. East 

 river (Mr. Febiger), in mud. 



6. Amphiprora conse r t a, n, sp. Frustules adherent in curved bands of- 

 ten to the number of 12 or more. Frustule straight, membranaceous. F. V. 

 Linear oblong, slightly dilated. Keel or ala central or subceutral, constricted, 

 costate, spathulate at extremities. V. Lanceolate or lanceolate with i^roduced 

 extremities. PL I. f. 6. 



The great variation in size, outline and general configuration of the frustules 

 of this species, together with the fact of their being so imperfectly siliciuus that 

 a boiling in weak acid either distorts or entirely destroys the specimen, ren- 

 ders it not improbable that this may be an early developmental form, although 

 of what known species, if any, would be difficult to say. A smooth and very 

 diaphanous variety of A. p a 1 u do s a occurs in the same gathering. 



The "plates" alluded to by the late Prof. Gregory (Marine Diatomaceae of 

 Clyde,) as characterizing A. lepidoptera, and others of the genus, are 

 strongly marked in this species, and serve as a point of attachment between the 

 various frustules. Arising from the surface of the valve at a short distance 

 from its extremity, they are broadly convex and incline somewhat outwards. 

 1861.] 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



By tlie central portion of the outer aspect or margin of these plates, eaoh frus- 

 tule is united to the adjoining one on both sides, the keels or alse of all three 

 overlapping for about one half their breadth. A nearly perfect circle is thus 

 often formed by a union of from 8 to 12 frustules. I am not aware of any des- 

 cription heretofore given of the union of the frustules of Ampbiprora into 

 bands or otherwise. In consequence of this arrangement, an end view of the 

 frustule can readily be obtained. 



Hab. — On marine algae (ceramium) off Light House Rocks, New London, 

 abundant. The bands of frustules are often moulded around the smaller stems 

 of Rhodospermeae. 



7. Ampbiprora Nereis, n. sp. Frustule usually twisted, hyaline, very in- 

 conspicuous. F. V. Elliptical with rounded ends, constriction of keel or ala 

 very deep. V. Striated, strise from 50 a 60 in -OOl, extending to margin of 

 ala. Supplementary plates ? crenulate or undulating, at the margin appear- 

 ing as though perforated with small puncta. Length of valve '002 a •0045. 



Hah. — On algse (Dasya e 1 e g a n s) from a brackish lake at Narragansett. 



This beautiful and delicate little form I have found only at Narragansett. 

 Its very small size, and faint markings make it so inconspicuous an object that a 

 l-12th inch is required not only to define but even to detect the balsamed speci- 

 mens on a moderately crowded slide. The only indication of marking arrest- 

 ing the eye, is the lines of puncta or dots seen in PI. I. f. 6. These I at first sup- 

 posed were portions of the ala, but after examining several specimens and 

 fragments of broken valves it seems more probable to me that they form sup- 

 plementary plates, arising from the ala at or near its junction with the body 

 of the frustule, and occupying the same plane as the former. 



This Ampbiprora most nearly resembles A. ornata Baileij, in size and 

 markings. Many of the frustules present a goo 1 deal of the rectangularity of 

 that species, but in other respects widely diifer from it. 



8. Navicula m ar g in ata, n. sp. F. V. Oblong, slightly constricted, with 

 rounded ends. V. Panduriform deeply and abruptly constricted. Segments 

 lanceolate with subacute extremities. Surface of valve very convex, striate, 

 strise moniliform, distinct, about 28 in -OOl. Margin of valve bordered by a 

 series of numerous small and beautifully distinct arches, apparently due to 

 the absence or depression of the outer silicious plate, 6 in '001. Length of 

 valve 005 to .006. PI. II. f. 1. 



The only two specimens of this beautiful diatom yet found by me, were 

 derived, the one from Black Rock Harbor, (Light House Point,) on the roots 

 of harbor grass ; the other, an imperfect frustule, from the blue clay of the 

 old Delaware estuary, (fossil). The former was a perfect frustule, and has 

 furnished the drawings. It is very likely that this will hereafter prove a 

 widely distributed species on the coast, from the fact of its occurrence with 

 recent and fossil at points so remote from each other. 



The characteristic ornate bordeV and the peculiar striation serve to dis- 

 tinguish it from any of the panduriform species yet figured or described. 



Hah. — Blue clay, Delaware river, (fossil). Light House Point, Black Rock 

 Harbor. On algse. 



8. Navicula, n. sp. ? or sporangium ofN. rhomboides? orN. fossilis 

 Ehr. — F. V. Linear slightly inflated. V. Lance elliptic, striate ; strise parallel, 

 very clear and sharp, 50 a 60 in "001 ; central line, together with nodules, very 

 prominent. Length of valve '004 to -013. PI. II. f. 3. 



This large hyaline species occurs in salt and brackish localities. It is found in 

 the St. Mary's river, within two miles of the ocean, and on the Savannah river, 

 below the city. Triceratium f avus is found living in the same localities. In 

 many of its characters it is nearly allied to N. rhomboides and c r a s - 

 s i n e r V i a , more particularly to Var. 13, of the first named, and, perhaps, 

 notwithstanding its marine habitat, ought to be regarded as a sporangial 

 variety of one or other of these species. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Hah. — Mud from oysters, St. Mary's river, Ga. Tidal mud from Savannah 

 river. Marsh at Fernandina, Florida. Rare. 



10. Navicula P o w e 1 i i, n. sp. — V. Linear, sharply attenuated at subacute 

 extremities, striated ; striae costate, interrupted about their middle by a blank 

 line running from end to end of the valve ; central nodule surrounded by a 

 large lozenge-shaped blank space, reaching to the blank line as above. Length 

 of valve -004 a -006. PI. II. f. 6. 



This species is allied to Navicula lineata Donhin,M.\(i. Jour., in striation, 

 but not in general characters. 

 Hab. — Black Rock Harbor, on algse and on mud. Rare. 



11. Mastogloia angulata, n. sp. — F. V. Oblong, truncate. V. Elliptical 

 extremities slightly produced ; loculi from 8 to 12 ; striae 36 a 40 in -OOl, re- 

 sembling those of Pleurosigma angulatum. Length of valve "0014 a 'OOSS. 

 PI. II. f. 4 



This species cannot be confounded with Mastogloia apiculata, from which 

 it differs in its more broadly elliptical shape, the smaller number of its loculi 

 and the angular character of its striation. These specific characters are un- 

 varying. 



Hab. — On algae, from rocks off New Rochelle, Bannister's creek. Rockaway 

 tidal mud. Stonington Inlet, on harbor grass, along with M. apiculata and 

 M. lanceolata. Salt marshes at Atlantic, N. Jersey. Salt marshes at Cape 

 May. Common. 



12. Mastogloia exigua, n. sp. — V. Lanceolate elliptic ; extremities some- 

 times a little produced; loculi 2 to 5, (commonly trilocular,) arched on the 

 central aspect; striae obscure. Length of frustule "0005 a -OOl. PI. II. f. 5. 



Hab. — Marsh scum of St. Sebastian river, St. Augustine, Florida. Pier at 

 St. Augustine. Fernandina pier, coast of New Jersey. 



This species occurs quite abundantly at the above localities. Its distinguish- 

 ing peculiarity is the small number and curved outline of the loculi. 



II. Rare and hitherto, in this country, unnoted species. 



1. Cocconeis oceanica Ehr. — V. Broadly elliptical, somewhat larger than 

 the variety figured in "Bacillarien." 



Hab. — Tidal rocks off New Rochelle, L. I. New London and Bridgeport, 

 attached to algae and sertularia. Common. 



2. Epithemia constricta W.Smith. — fia6. Mud from St. Sebastian river, 

 St. Augustine, Florida. Common. L. I. Sound. 



3. Eupodiscus Ralfsii W. Stnith. — Hab. Mud from Black Rock Harbor. 

 Bush river, Del., Mr. Febiger. Rice field mud, Savannah. St. Mary's river, 

 Ga. Common, but not abundant. 



4. Actinophenia splendens Shadbolt. — Hab. Delaware river mud. St. 

 Mary's marsh, Ga. Rare. 



5. Arachnoidiscus Ehrenbergii Bailey. — Hab. Long Beach, San Fran- 

 cisco, Cal., on algae, along with Hyalodiscus Californicus. Rare. 



6. Triceratium undulatum W.Smith. — Hab. Delaware river mud. St. 

 Mary's river, Ga., marsh. Rare. 



7. Triceratium striolatum Ehr. — Hab. St. Mary's river, Ga. Rice field 

 mud, Savannah. 



8. Triceratium pentacrlnus Wallich. — Hab. Rice field mud, Savannah. 

 Dredgings off Florida. U. S. Coast Survey. St. Mary's river. Rare. The 

 4 and 5-sided varieties are the only ones I have met with. 



9. Campylodiscus costatus Ehr. — Hab. Delaware river mud. Rare. 

 1861.] 5 




QQ PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



10. Campylodiscug parvulua W. Smith. — Eab. On marine algse from 

 Newport, R. I., S. Powel. New London harbor mud. St. Augustine, Florida. 

 The valves on the American variety, as far as met with, always have the 

 valves at right angles to each other. Rare. 



11. Campylodiscus Ralfsii W. Smith. — Hab. Black Rock Harbor mud. 

 Connecticut river mud. Rare. 



12. Campylodiscus Hodgsonii W. Smith. — Hab. Mud from Savannah 

 river. Rare. 



13. Campylodiscus spiralis W.Smith. — Hab. Ogeechee river, Ga. Savan- 

 nah river. This fresh water species obtrudes on the above localities, also on 

 the blue clay, Delaware river. 



14. Surirella fastuosa Ehr. — Hab. Entire coast, on algas and on mud. 

 Common, and presenting a great range of outline and size. 



15. Surirella c ration la Ehr. — Hab. Delaware river mud. Rice field 

 mud, Savannah. 



16. Nitzschia bilobata W. Smith. — Hub. Bridgeport, Conn., harbor ; ad- 

 herent to roots of harbor grass. Very rare. 



17. Nitzschia closterium W. Smith. — Hab. Marshes near Port Penn, 

 Del. On algse at Stonington, Conn. Rare. 



18. Nitzschia spathulata W. Smith = 1:^ . hyalina (^Gregory.) — Hab. 

 Salt marshes along the railroad at Atlantic, N. J. Salt marsh, Cape May, Mr. 

 Febiger. 



The American variety is smaller than the foreign. 



19. Nitzschia panduriformis Gregory. — Hab. St. Mary's river, mud 

 from oysters. Rare. 



This beautiful species varies a good deal in size and somewhat in outline. 

 The smaller specimens, but for the greater sharpness and coarseness of the 

 striae, and the prominence of the puncta, might be confounded with the larger 

 frustules of Tryblionella constricta. 



20. Nitzschia r e v e r s a W. Smith. — Hab. St. George's Marsh, near Port 

 Penn, Del. Marshes near Wilmington, Mr. Febiger. Rare. 



21. Nitzschia amphioxys W. Smith. — Hab. Delaware river mud, 

 marshes near Delaware City, Mr. Febiger. 



22. Nitzschia angularis W, Smith. — Hab. Delaware river mud. Mud 

 from Bannister's creek, Rockaway, L. I. 



23. Amphiprora paludosa W. Smith. — Hab. On algse at Stonington In- 

 let, L. I. Wilmington marshes, Del., Mr. Febiger. Common. 



Several varieties of this species are found, in one of which the markings 

 on the keel are entirely wanting. Atlantic salt marshes. 



24. Navicula trinodis W. Smith. — Hab. Large rivers and brackish and 

 fresh water marshes along the entire Atlantic coast. At Noriham's Pond, 

 brackish, Newport, R. I., Mr. Powel. Very abundant. 



This species answers so fully to the description ofN. trinodis Smith, that 

 their identity can scarcely be questioned. A southern variety from St. Mary's 

 river attains a much larger size, and the ends are often considerably produced. 

 N. trinodis is a common rice field species. The common variety in this 

 country is shewn in PI. II. f. 6. 



25. Navicula Jennerii W. Smith. — Hab. St. Sebastian river, St. Augus- 

 tine, Florida ; in mud. Rare. 



fMarch, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 67 



26. Navicula convexa W. Smith. — Hab. New London harbor mud. Rare. 



27. Navicula liumerosa Brebisson. — Hab. Saguenay river, on algae. 

 Long Beach, N. J., on algse. L. I. Sound, algae. Common. 



28. Navicula Hennedyi W. Smith. — Hab. Delaware river, Kaighn's 

 Point. Blue clay, fossil, Delaware river. New London, Conn., harbor mud. 



29. Navicula trochus Ehr. — Hab. Blue clay, fossil, Delaware river. 

 Very rare. 



30. Navicula truncata Donkin. — Hab. Long Beach, N. J. New Lon- 

 don, L. I. ; algae, &c. 



31. Navicula mi nut ul a W. Smith. — Hab. Brackish marshes at Absecom 

 Inlet, N. J. Cape May, salt marsh. Not uncommon. 



Differs in habitat and shape, which is more pointedly elliptic, but agrees in 

 striation and all other respects with the figure in Smith's Synopsis. 



32. Pinnularia long a Gregory.— Hab. Providence, Fall river, on algae. 

 Newport, R. I., on algae. Rare. 



33. Pinnularia polyonca Brebisson. — Hab. Very general along the coastaJ 

 ponds and rivers. Northam's Pond, along with Navicula trinodis. Ogee- 

 chee and Savannah rivers, on algae. Delaware river. On mud from Cooper's 

 creek, N. J., and Duck creek, Del. Our native variety often attains a length 

 of '005. The figure in Mic. Journ., vol. 2, pi, iv., conveying a very poor idea 

 of the size and general characters of P. polyonca, a representation of a 

 full sized specimen will be found in PI. IL f. 7. 



34. Pleurosigma mac rum W. Smith. — Hab. Brackish marshes at Wil- 

 mington, Del., Mr. Febiger. Rare. 



35. Pleurosigma b s c u r u m W.Smith. — Hab Brackish marshes at Dela- 

 ware City, Port Penn. Marshes of Delaware City, Mr. Febiger. Rare. 



36. Pleurosigma intermedium W. Smith. — Hab. New Rochelle, on 

 algae. Dredged from sea at New London. Very abundant in this locality, but 

 not elsewhere. 



37. Pleurosigma rigidum W. Smith. — Hab. New Rochelle, on algae; 

 along with Pleurosigma intermedium at New London. Rare. 



38. Pleurosigma delicatulum W. Smith. — Hab. Delaware river. Rare. 



39. Licmophora splendida Ehr. — Hab. Rocks off Newport harbor, on 

 algae, Mr. Powel. Common. 



40. Podosphenia Baileyi, n. sp., Edwards. — F. V. Broadly cuneate, trun- 

 cate, sessile end often produced. V. Obovate, or suborbicular ; the lower ex- 

 tremity prolonged into a very acute point, striated ; striae about 55 in 'OOl. 



Hab. — Long Island Sound, on algae. At Stonington. New London. Black 

 rock. Long Beach, N. J., on algae. Common. PI. II. f. 8. 



This is possibly the species alluded to by Mr. Edwards, in his paper on 

 American Diatomaceae, Mic. Journ., although in my specimens the presence of 

 vittae is suf&ciently obvious. In this early stage the frustules are imperfctly 

 silicious and possess short stipes, but as the growth of the individual pro- 

 gresses these become absorbed, until finally, as in?: others of the genus, they 

 appear simply sessile. 



Since writing the above, my friend Mr. Edwards has informed me of the 

 identity of this species with his P. Baileyi, (manuscript.) 



41. Gomphonema m a r i n u m . — Hab. New Haven harbor mud. Bannister's 

 creek, Rockaway mud, and New Rochelle, on algae. Not uncommon. 



1861.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



42. Eucampia z o d i a c u s Ehr. — Eah. Dredged by Mr. Powel, off rock at 

 Newport, R. I. Rare. 



43. Rhabdonema minutum Kiitzing. — Hah. Narragansett rock, on algae. 

 Newport harbor, on algje, Mr. Powel. Stonington rocks, on algse. 



44. Cymbosira A g a r d li i i Kiitzing. — Hah. Rock off New Rochelle. Ston- 

 ington Inlet. 



45. Tessella interrupta Kiitzing. — Hah. Off rocks at New Roclielle, on 

 algse. 



46. Amphitetras antediluviana Ehr. — Hah. Mud from Black Rock 

 Harbor, along with Var. /?. On algse from New Rochelle. Mud from St. Mary's 

 river. Rice field, Savannah, mud. 



47. Biddulphia t u r g i d a . — Hab. St. Mary's river, on algse. St. Augustine's 

 Quay, Florida. 



48. Isthmia nervosa Kiitzing. — Hah. Riviere du Loup, St. Lawrence river, 

 on algse. L. I. Sound, fragments. Very rare. 



49. Bacteriastrum f u re a t u m Shadholt. — Hah. Mud from St. Mary's river, 

 Ga., also on algse. St. Sebastian's river, on algse. Fernandina, Florida. Rice 

 field mud. Savannah river. 



Var. /?. — Without the bifurcate arrangement at the extremities. 



50. Bacteriastrum cnrvatum Shadholt. — Hah. Same localities as above. 

 Detected by Mr. Febiger in some mud brought by me from St. Mary's river, 

 marsh. 



51. Asterionella Bleakleyi W. Smith. — Hah. St. Mary's river, on algse. 

 Fernandina wharf. Ogeechee canal. Savannah rice field mud, Savannah. 

 This species occurs in greatest abundance at St. Mary's, Ga. It differs slightly 

 from the specimens figured in Mic. Journ., in the outline of the valve, 

 which is more slender in the American variety, and also less inflated at the 

 base. I am of opinion that the normal number of frustules is four, which 

 may be increased to eight by subdivision, but in this latter case the persist- 

 ence of these is of short duration, two separate aggregations of four each re- 

 sulting, this being the largest number capable of cohering perfectly. A group 

 of four individuals undergoing subdivision is shown in PI. II. f. 9, from rice field 

 mud. It may here be mentioned that Asterionella formosa and A. Ralfsii? 

 are occasionally met with in fresh water localities in this country. At a pond 

 on Longacoming, N. J., Mr. Powel made a gathering, containing both these 

 forms, along with a third, which differs so entirely from the described species, 

 as to entitle it to rank as a distinct one. The valves are only about three 

 times as long as broad, somewhat contracted in the centre. The striae are 

 indeterminate. Asterionella formosa occurs in the Delaware river, blue 

 clay ; also in mud from Cooper's creek. Diatoma stellaris of Bailey, 

 is no doubt referable to this genus. 



52. Plagiogramma Gregorianum Greville. — Hah. Entire Atlantic coast, 

 L. I. Sound. At Black Rock Harbor, in mud and on algse. New London mud. 

 New Haven, Conn. Chesapeake Bay oysters. Rice field mud, Savannah. 

 Never in great quantity. 



The frustules of this somewhat doubtful genus vary very much in outline 

 and the vittse are often absent. 



53. Plagiogramma tesselatum Greville.— Hab. Black Rock Harbor, in 

 mud. Very rare. Only a single perfect frustule has been found by me. 



54. Podosira Montagnei Kiitzing. —Hab. Newport rocks, dredged by Mr. 

 Powel. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



55. Podosira m a c u 1 a t a W. Smith. — Rab. Coast of Florida, on algje. Rare. 

 DelaTvare river mud, also rare. Bush, river, Del., Mr. Febiger. 



56. Creswellia f e r o x . — Rab. Black Rock Harbor mud. Bannister's creek, ' 

 Rockaway mud. Wilmington marshes, Mr. Febiger. 



Only detached frustules have heretofore been found, but these were suffi- 

 ciently characteristic to determine the species. 



57. Mastogloia apiculata W. Smith. — Hab. Mud from Bannister's creek, 

 Rockaway. Stonington Inlet, on algae, along with M. angulata and M. 

 lanceolata. New Rochelle rocks. 



58. Mastogloia lanceolata W. Smith. — Rab. Stonington Inlet, with 

 above. 



III. Species characteristic of the American coast. 



1. Eupodiscus radiatus Bailey. — Rab. Rivers and sestuaries from Charles- 

 ton to Key West. Savannah rice field mud. Common. St. Mary's river 

 mud, and at Fernandina, Florida. Common in tidal mud ; also in algre from 

 pier at St. Augustine's. 



2. Auliscus pruinosus Bailey. — Rab. Long Island, at Black Rock. 



3. Auliscus punctatus Bailey. — Rab. Rice field mud. Savannah river. 

 Rare. 



4. Auliscus radiatus Bailey. — Hab. Fossil at Kaighn's Point, N. J., on 

 blue clay. Rare. Bannister's creek, Rockaway, L. I. New London harbor, 

 dredged. 



5. Auliscus ccelatus Bailey. — Rab. Mud from New London harbor. Dela- 

 ware river mud. Rare. 



A variety of A. pruinosus, having three processes, occurs in Savannah 

 river mud. All these species vary much in their markings, and occasionally 

 so nearly approach each other in general character, as to make it very doubt- 

 ful whether they ought to be kept apart. 



6. Stephanodiscus Niagara Ehr. — Rab. Riviere du Loup, St. Lawrence 

 river, on algae. New Rochelle rocks, on algse. 



This fresh water species is quite common in our northern lakes and rivers, 

 but as a marine form is rarely met with. It attains a large size in Lake Mem- 

 phremagog, Canada, and in one locality. Skinner's Island, a remarkably fine 

 variety occurs. When marine or brackish in its habitat it undergoes a marked 

 diminution in size, preserving, however, the characteristic spines and other 

 specific distinctions. In Klitzing's description, (Species ahjarum,) it is spoken 

 of as having a non-radiate granular centre, but in all the specimens which 

 have fallen under my notice, this character has been wanting, and the centre 

 both radiate and granular. It is difficult to understand how this very well 

 marked species could ever have been referred to any of the known species of 

 Cyclotella. 



V. Hyalodiscus subtilis Bailey. — Hab. Atlantic coast. Very rare. San 

 Francisco. On algse from Long Beach. Abundant, and of large size. 



Id this latter gathering some of the frustules attained the large size of '009 

 in diameter. The F. V. is very narrow and linear, and the endochrome of a 

 deep grass green color, dries in bands usually affecting the curvilinear course 

 of the striae. In the recent and unboiled frustules the central granular disc 

 is not perceptible. H. subtilis is usually found on the axils of branching 

 algse, or adherent by a portion of its circumference to their stems. 



8. Surirella limosa Bailey. — Rab. Northern Atlantic coast and rivers. 

 Common. L. I. Sound, at Rockaway, mud from creek. Delaware river. Bush 



1861.] 




70 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



river, in mud. Duck creek, Del., mud. Rice field mud. Savannah river. 

 The variety most commonly met with is more broadly ovate than that figured 

 in Mic. Journ., vol. viii., and has a wide, smooth intercostal or more proper- 

 ly acostal space at the larger end of the valve. 



9. Amphiprora pulchra Bailey. Sporangial of A. alata? — Hah. Entire 

 Atlantic coast, mostly in still or stagnant salt ditches or streams. It may be 

 observed of this species or variety, that in American localities it outnum- 

 bers the supposed typical form, A. alata, and more than once I have found 

 it in marshes where not a single frustule of A. alata has ever been seen by 

 me. In the salt ditches along the Atlantic, N. J., railroad, A. pulchra is 

 a very common form, the frustules ranging in size from that of A. a 1 a t a to 

 the largest dimensions heretofore seen in the former variety, and yet these 

 smaller frustules have all the coarseness of striation and distinctive peculiari- 

 ties of the largest. The same holds good at another locality, Bannister's 

 creek, Rockaway, where, as well as at Absecom, A. alata is very seldom 

 met with. While, therefore, it must be acknowledged that a certain general 

 resemblance, amounting almost to identity of species, exists between the two, 

 it might be well, in view of the above facts, to regard A. pulchra as a fixed 

 variety of A. alata, and not its sporangium. 



10. Navicula p e r m a g n a ^rtz7e_y. Pinnularia per m agn a 5a«7ej/. — Hab. 

 In most of our large Atlantic rivers and brackish marehes. At Cape May, 

 salt marsh near Cold Spring, abundant. A variety, illustrating the great 

 range of outline in this species, is seen in PI. II. f. 11. This is probably the Na- 

 vicula e s X of KUtzing. It is more common on the Delaware river and its 

 tributaries than that figured by Bailey. This form may be found exhibiting 

 every range of outline between the two extremes. The striation and length 

 of the frustule remains unaltered, however. 



11. Synedra undulata Bailey. — Hab. Long Island Sound. On algfe 

 from Newport harbor, Mr. Powel, very fine and large. Occurs in rice field 

 earth, Savannah river. 



12. Tetragramma am ericana 5a«7e^= (Terpsinoe am er icana) — Hab. 

 Atlantic coast of U. S. L. I. Sound, at New Haven. Black rock and Stoning- 

 ton, in mud. St. Mary's river, Ga., marsh. Delaware river, and at Bailey's 

 locality, St. Sebastian's river, Florida. Although a widely distributed species, 

 I have not found it in any abundance, except at the last named locality. Like 

 Terpsinoe musicaitisa brackish form, although often found in fresh water 

 streams. 



13. Terpsinoe musica Ehr. — Hab. Southern coast, most some distance up 

 tidal rivers. Rice field mud. Savannah. St. Mary's river, Ga. Blue clay of 

 Delaware river. Very rare. 



14. Podocystis americana Bailey^'?, adriatica?) — Hab. L. I. Sound. 

 Light House Point, Black Rock harbor, on algse. 



IV. Species of universal distribution along the coast. 



Eplthemia musculus. 

 Cocconeis scutellum. 

 Cosoinodiscus s u b t i 1 i s . 

 radiatus. 

 eccentricus. 

 oculus-iridis. 

 Eupodiscus a r g u s . 



sculptus. 

 Triceratium f a v u s . 



al tern an s. 



Triceratium punctatum. 

 Cyclotella Kiitzingiana. 

 r otula. 

 operculat a. 

 Surirella fastuosa. 

 gemma, 

 striat ula. 

 o V ata . 

 sali na. 

 a n g u s t a . 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



Tryblionella acuminata, 

 punctata, 

 scu te 1 lu m . 

 Synedra f u 1 g e n s . 

 tabulata. 

 gracilis, 

 a f finis . 

 Nitzschia s i g m a . 



biros t rat a . 

 dub i a. 

 plana, 

 scalaris. 

 obtusa. 

 Amphiprora a 1 a t a . 



lep idoptera, 

 Navicula fir ma. 

 liber, 

 t u m e n s . 

 didy ma. 

 lyra. 



punctulata. 

 S m it h ii . 

 cuspidata. 

 amphisbcena. 

 Pinnularia peregrina. 



cyprinus. 

 Stauroneis pulchella . 



s al i n a. 

 Pleurosigma formosum. 

 elongatum. 

 angu latum. 

 Bal t icum. 



Pleurosigma f a s c i o 1 a . 



liippocampus. 

 Dorypbora amphiceros. 



B 03 ck i i. 

 Podosphenia Ehrenbergii. 



Lyng byi. 

 Rhipidophora paradoxa. 

 elongata? 

 Acbnanthes 1 o n g i p e s . 

 brevipes. 

 subsessilis. 

 Rhabdonema adriaticum. 



arcuatum. 

 Striatella unipunctata. 

 Grammatophora marina. 



serpentina 

 subtilis. 

 Biddulpliia pulchella. 

 rhombus, 

 a u ri t a . 

 B a il ey i . 

 Podosira hormoides. 

 Melosira nummuloides. 



B or r er i . 

 Orthosira marina. 

 Mastogloia S m i t h i i . 

 Berkley a fragilis. 

 CoUetoiiema e x i m i u m . 

 Schizonema cruciger. 



S m i t h i i . 

 Homeocladia filiformis. 



F. v., seen obliquely to 



Refeeexces to Plates. 

 Plate I. 



1. Surirella p u 1 c li r a, n. sp. 



2. F ebi ge r ii, n. sp. 



3. o V at a (sporangial). 



4. Cymatopleura marina, n. sp. a, V. b, F. 



5. Amphiprora conserta, n. sp. a, F. V. b. 

 shew the plates, e, V. d, end view of several frustules in union. 



6. Amphiprora N e r e i s, n. sp. a, F. V. b, V.X800. 



Plate IL 



1. Navicula mar gi n at a, n. sp. a, F. V. b, V. 



2. Po we li, n. sp. 



3. ? n. sp. 



4. Mastogloia a n g u 1 a t a, n. sp. 



5. exigua, n. sp. a, V. b, F. V. x^OO. 



6. Navicula t ri no dis. a, V. b, variety from St. Mary's River, c, F.V. 



7. Pinnularia (Navicula) polyonca. 



8. Podosphenia Bailey i. a, F. V. b, V. 



9. Asterionella Bleakleyi. 



10. Asterionella? . From same locality as A. formo s a — Long-a- 



coming, N. J. 



11. Navicula permagna. 



Var. 



[Where not otherwise specified, the magnifying power used has been 500 

 diameters.] 



1861.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Permission being given, Mr. Cassin made the following communica- 

 tion in reference to a new species of Goose from Arctic America. 



Mr. Cassin called attention to a series of specimens of Geese from Arctic 

 America, and especially to fragments of a specimen from Great Slave Lake, 

 recently received at the Smithsonian Institution, and by the officers of that 

 Institution kindly sent to him for examination. These fragments include 

 head, wings, tail and legs, and were accompanied by one nearly complete 

 skin, which is now exhibited in the Smithsonian Museum, and clearly re- 

 present a species not before known to naturalists, but are undoubtedly the 

 " Horned Wavey" described by Hearne in Journey to the Northern Ocean, p. 

 442, (Quarto ed. London, 1795 ; Octavo ed., p. 444, Dublin, 1796.) This 

 species has never again been noticed from the time of Hearne ixntil the receipt 

 of the present specimens from Mr. Robert Kennicott, an enterprising young 

 naturalist, now in the northern regions of British America, but has been 

 constantly insisted on as a valid species in his letters to the Smithsonian In- 

 stitution by Mr. Bernard R. Ross, an enthusiastic naturalist and careful ob- 

 server in the service of the Hudson Bay Company. 



The "Horned Wavey" is nearly allied to and of the same colors as the two 

 other species of northern Geese now before the Academy, which are Anser hy- 

 perboreus and albatus, but is readily to be distinguished from either by its 

 much smaller size and the numerous caruncles on the bill near its base. 

 These characters are very nearly as given by Hearne, and in all respects his 

 description is accurate and sulficient to determine the identity of the species, 

 and that it is different from any other. 



Mr. C. here read Hearne's description : 



"Horned Wavey. This delicate and diminutive species of the Goose is not 

 much larger than the Mallard Duck. Its plumage is delicately white, except 

 the quill feathers, which are black. The bill is not more than an inch long, 

 and at the base is studded around with little knobs about the size of peas, but more 

 remarkably so in the males. Both the bill and feet are of the same color 

 with those of the Snow Goose. 



"This species is very scarce at Cliurchill river, and I believe are never 

 found at any of the Southern settlements ; but about two or three hundred 

 miles to the northwest of Churchill I have seen them in as large flocks as the 

 common Wavey or Snow Goose. The flesh of this bird is exceedingly deli- 

 cate ; but they are so small, that when I was on my journey to the North, I 

 eat two of them one night for supper. I do not find this bird described by my 

 worthy friend, Mr. Pennant, in his Arctic Zoology. Probably a specimen of it 

 was not sent home, for the person that commanded at Prince of Wales' Fort, 

 at the time the collection was making, did not pay any attention to it." 

 (Hearne's Journey to the Northern Ocean, quarto, p. 442 ; octavo, p. 444, 5.) 



In the Proceedings of this Academy for February, 1856, (vol. viii. p. 41,) 

 is a notice of three species of North American Goose which had previously 

 been confounded under the name of Anser hyperboreus, and further observa- 

 tions have tended more fully to confirm my opinion there expressed. The 

 present is a third species of the white geese inhabiting the hyperborean re- 

 gions of America, for which I propose the name of Anser Rossii at the sugges- 

 tion of Prof. Baird of the Smithsonian Institution. 



In addition to the three species which are white, a fourth I have only seen 

 with the head white. The last is the Anser ccerulescens, (Linnaeus.) The four 

 species may be characterized as follows : 



1. Ansek hyperboreus, Pallas. 



Anser hyperboreus. Pall. Spic. Zool. i. p. 25 (1769.) 

 Large, about the size of Bemicla canadensis, total length about 31 inches, 

 wing 18^, tail 6^, bill along the culmen from tip to frontal feathers 2|, tarsus 

 3;^ inches. Entire plumage in adult, white, except ends of primary quills which 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



73 



are black ; bill and feet red. Front and sides of head frequently spotted with 

 dull rusty reddish. Young, dull bluish or pale lead colored on the head and 

 Tipper parts of body. 



2. Ansee albatus, Cassin. 



Anser albatus, Cass. Proc, Acad. Philada., 1856, p. 41. 

 Smaller than the' preceding, about the size of Bernida HutcJnnsii or B. albi- 

 frons. Total length about 25 inches, wing 15^, tail 5|, bill along the culmen 



2. tarsus 3 inches. White, ends of primaries black ; bill and feet red. Young, 

 dull bluish cinereous. 



3. Anser Rossii, Baird. 



Smaller than either of the preceding, and the smallest goose known to in- 

 habit North America. About the size of the Mallard Duck, (Anas Boschas.) 

 Total length about 21 inches ; wing 14^ ; tail 5 ; bill along the culmen 1| ; 

 tarsus 2J inches. Bill strongly warted or carunculated in front and on its 

 sides near and at its base. Entire plumage white ; ends of primaries black ; 

 bill and feet red, both probably darker than in either of the preceding. 



4. Anser ccerulescens, (Linnteus.) 



Anas ccerulescens, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 198 (1766.) 



About the size of A. albatus, or of Bernida Hutchinsii. Total length, about 

 24 inches; wing 16; tail 5^; bill along the culmen 2| ; tarsus 3 inches. 

 Tertiary quills rather long and inclined to curve downwards. Head and neck 

 white; body above and below dark ashy brown, nearly black on the back ; 

 rump and upper tail coverts ashy white ; abdomen and under tail coverts 

 white ; wing coverts light cinereous ; primary quills black ; tertiaries dark 

 brown, widely edged with pale ashy. Bill and feet red. 



The last species has been regarded by American naturalists as the young of 

 Anser hyperboreus, and is figured as such by both Wilson and Audubon, but, 

 I am confident, without sufficient evidence that such is the fact. The young 

 of both A. hyperboreus and A. albatus are in the collection of this Academy, 

 and are quite different from this species. 



AjJi-a 2d. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-four members present. 



Mr. Lea exhibited a specimen of slag from the iron furnace of 

 McKelney, Neal & Co , Bloomsburg, Pa. It was in the form of a cotton- 

 like mass of spun glass, and about two tons of the material were blown 

 out in one hour. 



Papers were presented for publication, entitled 



" On the identity of the genera Neomaenis of Grirard, and Lutjanus 

 ofBloch, by Theo. Gill." 



" Revision of the genera of Sci^eninae of North America, by Theo. 

 Gill." 



And were referred to Committees. 



The number of the Proceedings for March was laid upon the table. 



Mr. Cope stated, that he had an opportunity, during a recent visit to the 

 Smithsonian Institution, Washington, of instituting comparisons between certain 

 genera and species of reptiles. These resulted in his conviction of the necessity 



186L] 




74 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of certain changes of nomenclature, some of which he briefly noticed. He 

 would now place as synonyms of Tantilla Baird and Girard, Homalo cranium 

 Dum., and Lioninia* Hallow., excluding the species of Dumeril which possess a 

 loreal shield, under the name Scolecophis Fitz., Scolecophis fumicepsf Cope, 

 was Tantilla n i g r i c e p s Kenn. The appended synopsis was offered, for the 

 purpose of facilitating the recognition of the species. f 



, Taeniophis imperialis|| he found to be a fourth species of Coniophanes. 

 He agreed with Dr. Girard^ that Taeniophis was a synonym of Dromicus ; the 

 T. vermiculaticeps^ belongs to a distinct genus— but he was not prepared 

 to name it. TropidonoUis eompsoIcBmus** Cope, he now believed to be a T. 

 compressicaudus Coj»e,f -f- with a very sligh t compression of the tall, and 

 the markings above and below obsolete. The probable identity of Trop. me- 

 dusa%\ Gthr. with T. Clarkii,|||| suggested by Prof Baird, he had since been 

 able to verify ; a comparison, also, ofAblabes purpureocauda^^ Gthr. with Contia 

 m i t i siTir Bd. and Grd,, likewise suggested by Prof Baird, had resulted in their 

 identification. 



In the course of an examination of the specimens collected by the North 

 Pacific Exploring Expedition, he had observed, that Lepidocephalus fasciatus*** 



* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phil., 1860, p. 484. 



t Op. cit. 1860, p. 371. LocaUty " Cuba," probably erroneous. 



I Tantilla Bd. and Grd. Catal. Serp. Smiths. Inst. 1853, p. 131. 



I. One postocular plate. 



Superior labials seven, - - • -planiceps. 



Superior labials six; postnasal in contact with preocular; sym- 



physeal and geneial separated by labials, - - - -gracilis. 

 Superior labials six ; postfrontals in contact with labials ; genials 



in conlact with symphyseal, Hallo wellii. 



II. Two postoculars, (superior labials seven.) 

 et. Body unicolor, or longitudinally banded. 



* Postfrontals widely separated from super-labials. 

 Tad between one third and one-fourth the total length, - - -reticulata. 

 Tail one-fifth the total length; postnasal equal second superior 



labial, - - - - - - coronata. 



** Postfrontals in contact with, or scarcely separated from 

 superior labials. 

 A dark half-collar ; postnasal much smaller than second superior 



labia], - . _- - -melanocephali 



No dark half-collar; ro'stral plate prominent, acute; symphyseal 



plate in contact with geneials, - - - - - -vermiformis. 



No dark half collar; rostral plate obtuse; symphyseal and geneial 



plates separated by anterior inferior labials, - - -nigriceps.(a) 



p. Body semiannulate. 

 With narrow yellow bands upon black ground, - - - -laticeps. (fi) 



With black of equal breadth with the intervals of white ground , -semicincta. 

 II U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv. Zoology, Reptiles, p. 23, pi. 19, f. 1. 

 g Herpetology of U. S. Exploring Exp. p. 161. 

 t Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1860, p. 249. 

 ** Proc. Acad. Nat. !»ci. 1860, p. 368. 

 tt Nerodin compressicauda Kenn. Op. cit. 1860, p. 335. 

 XI Catal. Brit. Mus. p. 78. 



II il Regina CJarkii, Bd. and Grd. Catal. p. 48. Mex. Bound. Surv. Reptiles, p. 17. 

 ^J Catal. Brit. Mus. p. 245, 



*\\\ Catal. Serp. Smiths. Inst. p. 110. 

 *** Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 18C0, p. 498. 



(a) Kennicott, Proc. A. N. S. 1S60, p. 328. 



(6) Gunther, P. Z. S. 1860, p. 240. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Hallow, was identical with Euraesodon s era i c ari natus^ Cope ; also that 

 Aepideaf' Hallow, could not be distinguished from Gonyosoma Wagl. 



He stated that he had also noted that Dr. Girard's Rhabdion occipitalec 

 from Australia, was a Najid of the genus Glyphodond Gthr. ; perhaps distinct 

 from the species described by the latter author. Callirhinuse of the same 

 author was not isodont, as stated by him, but glyphodont, and bearing some 

 resemblance to Malpolon i?'(('z. Simotes an corns expressed the true generic 

 association of his Xenodon ancorus^ ; it is from Luzon, and identical with Simotes 

 phcenochalinuss Cope. The Erythrolamprus venustissimus of the same author,'' is 

 properly E. albostolatus' Cope. 



Specimens of Lepidosternum Floridanum Baird^ were exhibited. Jlr. Cope 

 stated that this Amphisbaenian reptile was evidently typical of a form generic- 

 ally distinct from Lepidosternum, which he would name Rhineiira. In the 

 form of the head, and presence of nasal shields it resembled Phractogo- 

 nus Halloiv. from Africa ; in the shielding of the crown and absence of preanal 

 pores it was similar to Lepidosternum. It differed from both in the depressed, 

 superiorly tuberculous tail. This structure was appropriate to its burrowing 

 habits. The eyes, if existing, were entirely invisible. According to Prof. 

 Baird, the R. Florid ana was common in the country from which it takes 

 its name. It emerges from its subterranean retreats after thunder showers; 

 hence its vernacular name of " Thunder Worm." 



The specific characters were as follows : A broad crescentic rostral plate : 

 immediately posterior to this on the median line are an oblong frontal, broader 

 than long, and a large irregularly pentagonal vertical, with its posterior angle 

 prolonged between two small occipitals; three small plates on each side of 

 the vertical. Four superior labials on each side — the last three times the size 

 of the third. The first separated from that of the other side by a trapezoid in- 

 ferior rostral, and bounded above by a transversely elliptical nasal, which is 

 pierced by the nostral above its centre. Three loreal plates in a series behind 

 the nasal and above the labials — the first much the longest. Superior maxillary 

 teeth five on each side; the anterior pair longest; inter-maxillary one; mandi- 

 bular, each ramus, six. Inferior labials three orfour; one symphyseal, one pair 

 genials, one mento-labial on each side. Sternal plates small, irregular, about 

 twelve in number. Vent very crescentic ; three pairs of preanal plates in a 

 longitudinal series. Fourteen rings upon the tail, all more or less tuberculous 

 superiorly except the two basal ones. Color dirty white ; upper surface of the 

 head yellowish. 



April 9th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Forty-nine members present, 



A paper was presented for publication, entitled 



" On the marine shells brought by Mr. Drexler from Hudson's Bay, 

 and on the occurrence of a Pleistocene deposit on the Southern shore of 

 James' Bay, by W. Stimpson," and was referred to a Committee. 



Mr. Cope made some remarks defining the following species of Reptilia 

 Squamata : two of them he regarded as representing genera not previously 

 known. He said : The generic form which I propose calling Diphalus, belongs 



a Op. cit. 1860, p. 263. b Op. cit. 1860. p. 488. c Herpetology U. S. Expl. Exped. p. 

 120. dCatal. Colubr. Brit. Mas. p. 210. e Herpetology U. S. Expl. Exped. p. 139. 

 fOp cit. p. 167. g Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1860, p 244. h Herpetology U. S. Expl. 

 Exped. p. 169. i Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1860, p. 250. k Op. cit 1858, p. 253. 



1861.] 




76 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



to the Ampliisbaenidse, and may be diagnosed as follows : Dentition pleuro- 

 dont ; muzzle conic, acute ; nostrils lateral, each in a single plate, which is 

 separated from that of the opposite side by a backward prolongation of the 

 rostral. Two elongate rostro-frontals, in contact with the rostral anteriorly. 

 Eye visible beneath the ocular shield. Preanal pores present. 



D. fenestratus Cope had been discovered in the West Indian Islands 

 of St. Thomas and Santa Cruz, by Mr. A. H. Riise, of the former. The largest 

 specimen obtained measured nine inches and six lines in length. The species is 

 of cylindrical form. The dermal rings are uninterrupted, divided into squares 

 above, more broadly segmented on the abdomen ; caudal whorls twelve. 

 Three upper labial plates, second much the longest, and in contact with fronto- 

 rostral. Ocular trapezoid, anteriorly acute. Two or three temporals, two 

 cuneiform frontals. One small symphyseal, and one large geneial, both of 

 them but little longer than broad. Three inferior labials, third twice the size 

 of the first, one -fourth the size of the second. Color pale brownish white, 

 each dermal segment marked with a small rectangular brown spot. The ani- 

 mal differs from Typhloblanus c aec u s Fitz., in the separation of the nasal 

 plates, from Cadea punctata Gray, in the double rostro-frontal, and from 

 both in the distinctness of the eyes. 



Amphisbaena angustifronsis allied to A. P r e t r e i and A. v e r m i - 

 c u 1 a r i s , but has a much shorter tail than either, beside other characteristic 

 peculiarities. The form of the muzzle is quite similar to that of the species 

 above described, being compressed conic. Rostral plate triangular, its apex 

 only visible from above, separated from the rostro-frontals by the united 

 nasals, as in the other species of the restricted genus. Rostro-frontals rather 

 broad, the anterior outline curved, the posterior more curved. Thus the 

 frontal pair, whose posterior border is also curved, exhibit an almost circular 

 outline. A trapezoid ocular, bordered above by the rostro-frontal, posteriorly 

 by a large temporal. Three upper labials, commisural border of the first 

 longer than that of the others. Its supero-anterior border continuous with 

 that of the second, its posterior with that of the nasal. One subtriangular 

 symphyseal ; one large gemmiform, geneial ; its anterior angle truncate ; three 

 inferior labials, second much the largest, bounded beneath by a subtriangular 

 mento-labial ; third labial small, elongate. Five superior maxillary teeth on 

 each side, seven intermaxillaries (medial longest,) sixteen mandibulars. Four 

 preanal pores ; vent curved, bordered by ten narrow preanal plates. Caudal 

 rings fifteen or sixteen. A specimen in the Academy Museum was brought 

 from Buenos Ayres, by Dr. Kennedy. 



Loxocemus Cope is a very remarkable genus of peropodous Ophidians, ex- 

 hibiting several points of resemblance to the Calamariaus, such as its 

 cylindrical body, short tail, small eye, and narrow, conic head. The rostral 

 plate finds a parallel in that of Rhiuocheilus Bd. and Grd. and Arizona Kenn. 

 also less closely in Stenorhina Dum. There is also a striking resemblance in 

 the form of the head and pupil of the eye to Olisthenes Cope, {Scytale Boie, 

 nee Merr., Pseudoboa Cope, nee Schneid.) O. Ne u w i e di i is quite similar 

 in its style of coloration to L. bicolo r. Without acquaintance with other 

 allied genera, it is difficult to decide as to whether Loxocemus should enter the 

 Boinae, or be regarded as the type of a new subfamily of aglyphodont eury- 

 stomatous serpents. Its diagnosis will be as follows : Body stout, cylindrical ; 

 tail short, urosteges two-rowed. Anal spurs small ; metatarsal and tarsal 

 bones large, tibia elongate curved, compressed and expanded at the distal 

 extremity. Preanal plate bifid ; gastrosteges narrow ; scales smooth. Head 

 small, indistinct, superiorly plane. Muzzle prominent, obliquely truncate. 

 Rostral plate large, transverse, slightly elevated, encroaching on the pre- 

 frontals. Two pairs of frontals, the anterior very transverse, the posterior 

 not completely separated from the large loreal. An elongate polygonal verti- 

 cal. One small superciliary on each side, a narrow lateral occipital, and a 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 77 



small medial interoccipital. Eye small, resting on the labials, which are not 

 pitted ; pre- and postoculars present ; pupil elliptic, erect. Teeth slightly 

 longer on the anterior parts of the dentigerous bones than on the posterior. 

 Intermaxillary bone toothless ; supraorbital bone none. 



L. bicolor possesses three postocular plates ; one large preocular is ex- 

 tensively in contact with the vertical ; the latter plate presents an obtuse 

 angle anteriorly, and is nine-sided. Superior labials ten, fourth and fifth en- 

 tering the orbit. Twelve inferior labials. One pair of very narrow geneials, 

 with a sulcus between them, and separated from the labials laterally by a single 

 narrow plate on each side. Scales in thirty-four longitudinal rows ; those of 

 the inferior, half as wide as the gastrosteges. The tail and upper surface of 

 the body, between the fourth rows of scales on each side, are of a rich purplish 

 brown. Belly, chin, and upper labials yellow. One specimen brought by 

 Capt. J. M. Dow, from La Union, San Salvador, and presented to the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. No. 4948. 



April IQth. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine members present. 



A paper was presented for publication, entitled 



"Description of a new genus (Strephobasis) of the family Melaniadas, 

 and three new species, by Isaac Lea," and was referred to a Committee. 



Dr. Leidy mentioned that lignite had been discovered at the border 

 of the new red sandstone on Plymouth Creek, near Norristown, Pa. 



The death of Dr. John E. Evans, a correspondent of the Academy, 

 was announced; he died at Washington^ D. C., on the 13th inst. 



A communication was made by Mr. Theo. Gill on several new generic types 

 of fishes contained in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 



The first was referred provisionally to the Agonoids, as an Agonoid under the 

 guise of a Perisiedion. It presented a very strong resemblance to the represen- 

 tatives of the latter genus, and would doubtless, at the first glance, be con- 

 ceived to be very nearly allied to them. But with the same form as Peristedion, 

 it has the head constructed on essentially the same plan as that of a true Ago- 

 nus. The first suborbital bone expands inferiorly ; the second covers the cheek, 

 and both are armed with an inferior submarginal crest; the crest of the second 

 has a median curved spine, from which radiating grooves and ridges ad- 

 vance on the surface. The snout, like that of Affotius, has on each side two 

 spines, one horizontal and the other curved backwards. The dorsal fin is 

 separated by several plates from the head. The thoracic region is covered with 

 about three rows of more or less hexagonal plates, except in front, where there 

 are only two plates. The ventral fins are approximated, and received in an 

 elongated triangular groove or furrow. In allusion to the last named peculiar- 

 ity, the genus was named Podothecus. 



The family of Agonoids is now increased by this addition so as to include at 

 least five described genera ; they are the following : 



Podothecus QUI. 



Agonus Block = Aspidophorus Swainson. 



Bracbyopsis Gill = Agonus Swainson. 



Hippocephalus Swainson. 



Aspidophoroides Lac. = Canthirhynchus Swainson. 



The new Agonoid was obtained by Dr. Kennerly, the zoologist of the North- 



1861.] 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



western boundary Survey, at Washington Territory, and will be fully described 

 and figured in the report on the fishes collected by the naturalists of that expe- 

 dition. 



The next form noticed was also claimed to be most worthy of attention on 

 account of the singular combination of characters which it presented, and 

 which might render even the family to which it belongs a question of doubt. 

 Yet the resemblance to the genus Genyoroge of Cantor or Diacope of Cuvier was 

 so very great, that the speaker aflSrmed there was positively no external char- 

 acter to distinguish them as genera except the position of the anterior nostrils. 

 Those nostrils, in the fish under consideration, were short tubes present at the 

 margin of the snout; that character was very characteristic, and by it the ge- 

 nus was easily distinguished from all other allied forms. 



On examining the dentition and the branchiostegal membrane, remarkable 

 differences are also found between it and the Lutjaninse. The former have a 

 dentition much like that of Serranns, but the new fish was said to have more or 

 less blimt conical teeth, like the Pagrine Sparoids, both on the jaws and the vomer. 

 There were no palatine teeth. In each jaw there are four large and robust teeth 

 in front; behind, there is a row of smaller ones : behind the row of the upper 

 jaw, is at least one row of smaller molar or pisiform ones, and behind the cor- 

 responding row of the lower, there is, on each side, one molar. There are also 

 three short and very obtuse conical molars on the front of the vomer. Only 

 five branchiostegal rays could be detected on each side. 



The speaker alluded to this form, as affording additional evidence of the in- 

 timate connection that exists between the Percoidsandthe Sparoids, and added, 

 that if the armature of the preoperculum and the dentition of the vomer were 

 not taken into account, it might with almost equal propriety be referred to the 

 Sparoids or the Percoids. Dr. Giinther, by admitting the Pimelepterina in the 

 family of Sparoids, has refused to acknowledge the presence or absence of 

 teeth on the palatine arch as a character of family value in those fishes, and 

 with his limitation the present genus would belong to that family. But the 

 speaker preferred to regard it as the type of a distinct sub-family, intermediate 

 between the Lutjaninje and the Pagrinffi, and named it Hoplopagrinae. The 

 genus was called Hoplopagrus. The speaker promised to describe the species 

 hereafter, and in testimony of his appreciation of the advances rendered by 

 Dr. Giinther towards a more natural classification of the Sparoids, Pristipoma- 

 toids and allied groups, would dedicate it to that gentleman. 



In connection with the subject, the cases of the genera, Haploidinottts, Corvina^ 

 and Rhinoscion were alluded to. The resemblance between the first and last 

 two genera was very strong. That between Ilaploidinotus and Corvina was in- 

 deed so great, that there were no external characters which alone would be suf- 

 ficient to justify their separation as even genera ; but an examination of the 

 pharyngeal bones demonstrates that they are not even members of the same 

 natural sub-family. Bhinoscion, established for the Amblodon saturnus of Girard, 

 affords a less close analogical resemblance to Ilaploidinotus. 



Mr. Gill also corrected an erroneous reference to a genus made in the 

 catalogue of the fishes of the eastern coast of North America. He had there 

 referred the three American species of the Monacanthi of Cawier to the genus Can- 

 therines or Canthorhinus of Swainson, not daring without further evidence to 

 propose for them a distinct one. Having since been able to examine the des- 

 cription of the species given in the zoology of Freycinet's voyage in the libra- 

 ry of the Academy, he found that our species were generically different, and 

 proposed to confer on thtm the name of Stephanolepis, in allusion to the 

 crown-like crest with which the central part of each scale is adorned. The 

 Monacanlhus setijer of Bennett may be considered as the type. The speaker had 

 never seen specimens of the Monacanthus broccus of Dekay, and could not say 

 whether it was congeneric with the other two species or not. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



April 2Zd. 



Vice-President, Bridges, in the Chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 

 A paper was presented for publication, entitled 

 " Notes on the habits of Aphredoderus Sayanus, by Charles C. Ab- 

 bott," and was referred to a Committee. 



April mth. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Bevision of the Genera of North American SCI.SN1N.9:. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The present memoir has resulted from our studies of the characters of the 

 Liostomi and other American Sciaenoids, and was intended only to embrace the di- 

 agnoses of our genera, but in order to appreciate more fully the relations of those 

 forms, we were induced to study the foreign ones, and have believed that the 

 results are of suflBcient interest and importance to submit to ichthyologists. 

 There is a number of other genera confounded under those of Cuvier, but as 

 a gentleman of the Museum of Comparative Anatomy of Cambridge is under- 

 stood to be engaged in the profound study of the whole family, we refrain from 

 naming and characterizing them. The diagnoses of the exotic genera here de- 

 scribed will be sufficient to enable the reader to appreciate the distinctions 

 which exist between our own species and those of the genera with which most 

 of them hare been hitherto considered congeneric. 



Subfamily Sci.enin^ Gill. 



The body varies in shape, ranging from an oblong rhomboideo-ovate form to 

 an elongated fusiform one. When the inferior outline of the head ascends to 

 the snout, it is with a very gradual and slight curve. Both jaws are formed 

 with teeth, which are of a more or less acutely conical form. 



The dorsal fins are united by a slightly elevated membrane ; the first is of 

 moderate height, being longer than high ; the second is oblong or elongated. 

 The anal fin is of a trapezoidal form, and as high or higher than long. The 

 ventral fins are generally inserted under or behind the bases of the pec:orals 

 rarely a very short distance in front. 



The scales are ctenoid and generally arranged in very oblique rows. 



The inferior pharyngeal bones when in place form a triangular U or Y-shaped 

 body with a broad triangular excavation, whose sides are slightly emarginated, 

 and whose anterior apex is suddenly continued to an oblong triangular fissure 

 between the opposite bones. Each bone is itself semi-claviform and more or 

 less curved upwards behind ; its external vertical margin is straight or nearly 

 so ; its internal margin, for the first half of its length, is also straight, but 

 thence, with a slight sigmoid curve, converges to the end of the posterior pro- 

 longation of the bone. Beneath the bone, there is an external ridge which is 

 marginal before but slightly recedes behind. 



The upper pharyngeal bones are six, or three on each side ; the median is 

 subtriangular or triangularly-ovate ; the external, or anterior and posterior 

 elongated in the direction of the sides o'f the median ; the posterior is broadest, 

 and has a more or less subovate form. 



1861.] 




80 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



The teeth of the pharyngeal bones are well developed and card-like, more or 

 less conic, and largest on the median upper pharyngeal, and nearest the inter- 

 nal borders of the lower. 



The setae or setose laminae of the anterior ceratobranchials are short or mod- 

 erate, compressed, and more or less armed with slender acute teeth on their 

 inner margins. 



The subfamily of Sciaeninse as thus restricted will include the Otolithic •who?,e 

 lower jaw projects beyond the upper, as well as the Scicence, Corvince and allied 

 fishes, whose lower jaw is shorter and more or less embraced within the upper. 

 The groups thus differing might possibly be considered as distinct families and 

 characterized as follows : 



Otolithin^. 



This group is distinguished by its more or less equally subelliptical sub-oval 

 or fusiform body, covered by very oblique rows of moderate or rather small 

 scales. The mouth is terminal, the lower jaw being produced or consider- 

 ably longer than the upper. Both jaws are armed with teeth. The margin 

 of the snout is entire. The limbs of the lower jaw have very minute and 

 scarcely visible pores. The dorsal fins are more or less united at their base ; 

 the second is long. The ventral fins are situated near the vertical of the bases 

 of the pectorals, rarely before. 



CORTININ.aE. 



The body is covered with generally very oblique rows of moderate or large 

 scales. The mouth is more or less inferior, the lower jaw being received with- 

 in the upper. Both jaws are armed with teeth. The margin of the snout is 

 generally more or less quadrilobate between the suborbital bones ; the incisions 

 oblique, and those next the bones always deepest. The limbs of the lower jaw 

 have usually each two pores, and there is almost always one near the symphy- 

 sis. The dorsal fins are more or less united at their base ; the second long. 

 The ventral fins are inserted more or less behind the pectorals. 



But as the greater length of the lower jaw is the only constant character, the 

 propriety of doing so with our present knowledge of the subject is very doubt- 

 ful. We will therefore regard them as simple sections which may not be even 

 natural the differences existing in the Cynoscio7is or American Otolithi, and the 

 typical ScicEHcc being perhaps of even less value than those which distinguish 

 the Scictnce from fishes like the Umbrince, Micropogons, and others. 



The characters which distinguish the Sciaeninse from the Liostominae and 

 Haploidinotiuae are trenchant and very distinct, but are almost entirely anatomi- 

 cal, there being positively no external characteristic or features between the 

 first and last which would serve for their restriction. Yet the distinction be- 

 tween all of the Sciseninae and of the Haploidinotinse is founded on a character 

 which has been regarded by many of the most profoundly learned ichthyolo- 

 gists as of even ordinal value. The differences which exist between the Sciae- 

 ninse and Liostominae are of almost equal value, and serve well to illustrate the 

 importance of more profound investigations of the characteristics of animals 

 than are usually instituted. 



Lower jaw projecting beyond the upper. 

 Genus Otolithus Cuvier. 

 Otolithus Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. i. 

 Type. Otolithus ruber Cuv. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Genus Cynoscion* Gill. 



Otolithus sp. Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. p. 299. 

 Cestreus Gronou; Catalogue of Fish collected and described hy L. T. Gronow, 

 now in the British Museum, p. 49. 1854. 



Body elongated and nearly fusiform. Caudal peduncle of moderate size. 



Head oblong-conical, with a scarcely convex snout. Eyes wholly in the ante- 

 rior half of the head. Mouth oblique ; the supramaxillars cease nearly under 

 or little before the posterior borders of the orbits. Lower jaw protuberant. 

 Preoperculum with its margin membranous and crenulated. 



Teeth distant and recurved, nearly uniserial in the lower jaw, in front pre- 

 ceded by an additional row ; nearly biserial in the upper jaw, and normally 

 with a canine tooth on each side of the symphysis ; one is generally deciduous. 



Anterior dorsal fin with generally nine or ten spines ; posterior of normal 

 size. Anal fin trapezoidal, with only one very slender spine apparent exter- 

 nally. Caudal fin subtruncated. Ventrals in the same relative position as those 

 of Scicena. 



Lateral line with a sigmoid flexure, tubular, in scales formed like those of 

 the rest of the body. 



The pharyngeal bones are armed with acute teeth ; those of the upper are 

 considerably curved. The setae of the first ceratobranchials are slender ; their 

 teeth are rarely in more than one or two irregular rows, and are but slightly 

 curved. The internal sides of the first and both sides of the remaining bran- 

 chial arches have a row of appressed semioval plates, armed with curved 

 teeth, increasing in size towards the margin ; besides the row of marginal 

 plates, the sides have also many smaller ones. 



This genus is somewhat allied to Sciana, but differs especially in the pro- 

 trusion of the lower jaw, the presence of symphyseal canine teeth in the upper, 

 the character of the preoperculum, and the single slender spine of the anal 

 fin. 



It is also nearly allied to the typical Otolithi, difl'ering from them by the 

 absence of canine teeth on the lower jaw, the condition of the margin of the 

 preoperculum, the presence of only one anal spine, the character of the lateral 

 line, and especially in the position of the ventral fins. 



Type. Cynoscion regalis Gill. 

 S>jn. Otolithus regalis Cuv, et Val. 



§n. 



Lower jaw received within the upper. 



Genus Sci^na (Artedi.) 



Scisena sp. Artedi, Genera Piscium, Gen. xxix. 

 Scisena Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. ii. vol. ii. 



Body elongated, with the dorsal outline slowly descending and slightly arch- 

 ed from the dorsal to the snout, and under the second dorsal nearly straight. 

 Caudal peduncle of moderate size. 



Head oblong-conical, the superior surface declining more rapidly than the 

 lower ascends. Snout before convex. Eyes in the anterior half of the head. 

 Mouth oblique ; the supramaxUlary bones continued nearly to the vertical of 

 the hinder border of the orbit. Lower jaw little shorter than the upper, and 

 received within the external row of teeth of the upper jaw. 



Preopercular margin denticulated. 



Teeth in each jaw in one row, distant, recurved and rather large ; behind 

 the external row in the upper jaw there is a band of smaller teeth ; in the 



•Composed ofjci/ai', dog and iriuiv, the modem Greek name of the Umbrina cirrhosa, 

 according to Kondelet. The name of Cynosdana would not be euphonious. 



1861.] 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lower, there is an external one of smaller teeth, and at the STinphysis still 

 smaller ones are mixed between the two rows. 



Anterior dorsal fin sustained by nine spines ; the posterior of normal size, 

 and generally provided with less than thirty rays. Anal fin of the nsnal size ; 

 its second spine short. Caudal subtruncated. Ventral fins inserted behind 

 the bases of the pectorals. 



Lateral line parallel with the back, simply tubular and perforated in scales, 

 similar to those of the rest of the body. 



The armature of the pharyngeal bones and arches resembles mostly that of 

 Cynoscion, but the plates are not compressed, but rather developed as project- 

 ing ridges, and the supernumerary plates are very few or obsolete. 



Type. Sciaena aquila Ciiv. 



Genus Anomiolepis Gill. 



Body compressed, scarcely elongated and subclavate, with the caudal pedun- 

 cle of moderate length. 



Head short, with the muzzle short and convex, and with the lower jaw also 

 ascending upwards with a slight curve. 



Preoperculum with its margin moderately oblique and apparently dentated. 



Eyes mostly anterior. Mouth oblique. Supramaxillary bones well exposed, 

 and extending to or beyond the posterior borders of the pupils. Lower jaw 

 received within the external row of teeth of the upper. 



Teeth uniserial ; those of the upper jaw distant, and the anterior much 

 larger ; those of the lower jaw increasing in size backwards. 



Anterior dorsal fin furnished with about ten spines ; second elongated. 

 Anal fin with its first spine short and its second moderate. Caudal fin pro- 

 bably rounded or lanceolate. 



Lateral line running through a row of subcircular cycloid scales, whose pos- 

 terior margin have each a subcircular incision. 



The pharyngeal bones and arches are furnished nearly in the same manner 

 as in Sci(Ena. 



This genus is represented by a new species, of which two specimens were 

 found at Hong Kong, China, by Dr. Stimpson. Only a single specimen is at 

 present accessible, and on it we cannot find a band of villiform teeth behind 

 the external row of large ones, even with the aid of a good lens, and are con- 

 sequently compelled to believe that there is none. The species appears to be 

 related to the Corvina tridentifer of Richardson, which has a band of villiform 

 teeth behind the external ones ; but besides this character, which is of generic 

 importance, it difl"ers in others. Like the fish of Richardson, the present spe- 

 cies has four large teeth in front in the upper jaw. 



The name which has been bestowed on this genus is intended to draw at- 

 tention to the peculiar structure of the scales of the lateral line, which remind 

 the observer of the perforate valve of a shell of the genus Anomia. 



Genus Plagioscion Gill. 



Body elongated, well curved from the dorsal to the snout, and almost straight 

 under the second dorsal ; abdominal outline nearly straight. Caudal pedxm- 

 cle short and slender. 



Head moderate, compressed and subconical, slightly depressed over the 

 eyes, and with the muzzle rather short, high, subtruncated, and protuberant. 

 The external fissures alone are slightly developed. Mental pores obsolete. 

 Preoperculum with its crest and margin oblique, nearly parallel, and with its 

 margin dentated most at its angle. Eyes anterior. Mouth oblique. Supra- 

 maxillary bones mostly concealed, extending below the posterior borders of 

 the orbits. Lower jaw received within the upper. Lips fieshy. 



Teeth ir. the upper jaw in a villiform band surrounded by a row of stronger 

 ones ; larger ones nearly uniserial, mixed with smaller in the lower jaw. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Anterior dorsal fin with ten spines ; second long. Anal with its second 

 spine robust. Caudal lanceolated. 



Lateral line much curved under anterior third of the second dorsal fin. 



The pharyngeal bones and arches present no well marked peculiarities to 

 distinguish them from those of the Sclcena. 



This genus is proposed for a new species of the Caribbean Sea, which has 

 considerable resemblance and affinity to the so-called Scicena lucida of Rich- 

 ardson and Scicena pama of Cuvier and Valenciennes ; but yet, on account of 

 the robust second spine of the anal, if consistency should be observed, would 

 be referred to the genus Corvina, by those who adopt the genera of Scitenoids 

 of Cuvier. 



Genus Homopkion Holbrook. 

 Homoprion sp. Holbrook, Ichthyology of South Carolina, p. 168. 



Body oblong, compressed, and with a form similar to that of Bairdiella. 



Head also like that of Bairdiella. Mouth terminal and oblique. Supramaxil- 

 lary bones ending under or nearly under the pupil. 



Preoperculum with a lobed and distinct crest, and with its posterior-an- 

 gular margin armed with radiating spines. The pores are probably similar 

 in development to those of Bairdiella. 



Upper jaw armed " with a row of rather stout, conical, recurved teeth," 

 behind which "are numerous, small, card-like teeth ; " lower jaw with " one 

 group of small, card-like teeth." 



Anterior dorsal fin provided with about eleven spines. Anal fin with its 

 second spines equalling in length two-thirds of the succeeding articulated ray. 

 Caudal fin cuneate or lanceolate. 



No specimens of the Homoprion lanceolatus, which is the type of the genus, 

 are at present contained in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution. The 

 preceding diagnosis has therefore been principally compiled from the descrip- 

 tion and figure given by Dr. Holbrook. 



As previously observed, the Homoprion subtruncatus of Gill does not appear 

 to be congeneric with the type, but to be more nearly allied to, if not, indeed, 

 a representative of the same genus as the Bairdiella argyroleuca. 



Type. Homoprion lanceolatus Holbrook. 



Genus Bairdiella Gill. 



Perca sp. Mit chill. 

 Corvina sp. Cuv. et Val. 



Bairdiella Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern coast of North America, 

 p. 33, February, 1861. 



Body oblong, compressed, with the dorsal outline rapidly descending in a 

 nearly straight line froai the dorsal fin, and with the abdominal outline nearly 

 straight. 



Head compressed, conical, with the muzzle scarcely convex, and with the 

 lower jaw ascending. Mouth terminal and oblique. Supramaxillary bones 

 mostly exposed, and ceasing under or slightly behind the pupil of the eyes. 



Preoperculum with no distinct crest ; its posterior margin and rounded 

 angle denticulated, the teeth increasing in size towards the angle. Two late- 

 ral pores of each ramus of the jaw small ; the two symphyseal ones rudimen- 

 tary. 



Anterior row of stout and recurved conical teeth in each jaw, behind 

 which, in the upper, is a narrow band of villiform ones. 



Anterior dorsal fin sustained by nine or ten spines. Anal fin with the 

 second anal spine more than two-thirds as long as the longest branched ray. 

 Caudal fin subtruncated. 



Lower pharyngeal bones combined form a lanceolate, or very deeply ex- 

 1861.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cavated triangle ; each separately is semi-claviform. Their upper surface 

 is covered with small teeth, and along the internal margin with a row of 

 scarcely recurved more elongated ones. The upper pharyngeals are also 

 clothed with small teeth, besides which, on the median bone, are conical 

 ones like those of the lower bones. The first branchial arch is externally 

 furnished with compressed setae, which are muricated on their internal bor- 

 ders ; internally, they have transverse thick ridges with villiform teeth, 

 like those of the other arches ; the external rows of ridges are larger than the 

 internal. 



The scales of this genus are arranged in much less oblique lines than in most 

 of the other representatives of the subfamily of Scicenince. An oblique row in 

 the typical species extends from the commencement of the second dorsal to 

 that of the anal. 



This genus has been established for the Perca argyroleuca of Dr. Mitchill, or 

 the Corvina argyroleuca of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and the allied species 

 chiefly found in the Caribbean and neighboring seas. The Homoprion xanthu- 

 rus of Holbrook, or Homoprion subtruncatiis, perhaps belongs to this genus also, 

 but as it is said to have " two or three series of small, pointed, recurved, card- 

 like teeth, with an outer row of larger, conical, pointed teeth " in both jaws, 

 it is not deemed advisable to positively place it there. The specimens referred 

 to under that name by Dr. Grirard, in the "Report on the Ichthyology of the 

 Mexican Boundary Survey," as preserved in the Smithsonian Institution, be- 

 long to the Bairdiella argyroleuca. We have examined five of the specimens 

 labelled as Homoprion ranthurus, and have counted the number of rays of the 

 second dorsal fin. There are one spinous and twenty or twenty-one articulated 

 rays, the last of which is double. They therefore agree in the number of rays, 

 as well as in appearance, with the Bairdiella argyroleuca. The Homoprion 

 suhtruncatus has thirty-two articulated dorsal rays. A variation equalling a 

 third of the greatest number of rays is rarely found in the same natural genus. 

 Yet there is a very close resemblance between that species and the type of 

 Bairdiella. It certainly shows much more affinity to the latter externally 

 than to the Homoprion lanceolatus. 



This genus is less nearly allied to Corvina ; it difiers in form, squamation and 

 the dentation of the margin of the preoperculum. The genus Stellifer of Cu- 

 vier is founded on the Bodianus stellifer of Bloch, a species supposed to belong 

 to this group, but which cannot be positively identified. 



Type. Bairdiella argyroleuca Gill. 

 Syn. Bodianus argyroleucus Mitchill. 

 Corvina argyroleuca Cuv. et Val. 



Genus Coevina Cuv. 

 Corvina Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. ii. vol. ii. p. 173. 1829. 



Body oblong rhombo-ovate, with the ante-dorsal region slightly curved, and 

 thence declining in a straight line to the snout. The subdorsal region declines 

 with a slight curve backwards. 



Head oblong, with the snout rather high and truncated. The profile is 

 straight and rapidly declivous. Eyes anterior, subcircular. Preoperculum 

 scarcely dentated ; mental pores well developed. Mouth subterminal and 

 nearly horizontal. Supramaxillary bones well exposed and terminating before 

 the hinder border of the orbit. 



Teeth in a moderate band in each jaw ; that of the upper preceded by a 

 row of larger ones. 



Anterior dorsal fin with about ten spines ; the second long. Second anal 

 rolmst. 



The variable teeth of the lower and median upper pharyngeal bones are 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 85 



short, cylindro-conic and very blunt. The setae are normal. The dentiferous 

 plates of the arches developed as thick compressed ridges. 



The scales of the head are mostly cycloid. 

 Type. Corvina nigra Cuv. 



Genus Rhinoscion Gill. 



Amblodon sp. Girard, Explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route, &c., 

 vol. X. Fishes, p. 98. 



Body oblong, with the ante-dorsal region convex, and the occipito-nasal pro- 

 file nearly straight. 



Head oblong, with the snout slender and protuberant, and the profile nearly 

 straight. Eyes anterior and subcircular. Preoperculum scarcely dentated. 

 Mental pores developed. Mouth inferior. Supramaxillary bones only par- 

 tially concealed, not reaching to the posterior borders of the eyes. 



Teeth in a band in each jaw, preceded in the upper especially by a row of 

 larger ones. 



Anterior dorsal fin with ten spines ; second anal spine robust. 



The variable teeth of the lower pharyngeal bones are cylindro-conic ; those 

 of the median upper ones acutely conic and curved. The setae of the first 

 ceratohyals are normal. The dentiferous plates of the arches very thick and 

 not compressed. 



The scales of the cheeks are ctenoid like those of the body. 



Type. Rhinoscion saturnus Gill. 

 Si/n. Amblodon saturnus Girard. 



Genus Johnius Bloch. 



Johnius Bloch, Ichthologie ou Hist. Nat. Gcncrale et Particulier des Poissons, 



vol. X., p. 107. 

 Corvina sp. auct. 



Body elongated, with the dorsal outline arched, gradually descending from 

 the dorsal to the snout, and slowly declining with a gentle curve from the 

 commencement to the end of the dorsal fins. Abdominal outline scarcely or 

 slightly convex. 



Head oblong, with the profile oblique, the muzzle convex and protuberant, 

 and the lower jaw scarcely ascending. Eyes of moderate size, anterior to a 

 vertical line dividing the side of the head into two halves. Preoperculum 

 with its vertical and horizontal margins fiaely denticulated. Two lateral pores 

 evident, and often one or rarely two symphyseal ones present. Mouth slightly 

 oblique and subterminal. Supramaxillary bones moderately hiding under the 

 suborbital, extending to about the vertical of the posterior borders of the 

 orbits. 



Teeth cardiform, in a band on each jaw, and in the upper one preceded by 

 a row of stronger curved ones. 



Anterior dorsal fin provided with nine or ten spines. Anal fin with its 

 second spine about half as long as the succeeding soft ray. Caudal fin gene- 

 rally entire or with its submedian rays extended. 



The variable teeth of the lower and median upper pharyngeal bones are 

 cylindro-conic. The setae of the first pair of ceratohyals are normal ; the den- 

 tiferous plates of the branchial arches are thick ridges. 



The assumed North American representative of this genus may possibly not 

 be congeneric with its type, but as no specimens are accessible, and as the 

 figure of Bloch and the description of Cuvier and Valenciennes are not 

 sufficiently exact and detailed to enable us to decide, it is for the present re- 

 tained here. 



Type Johnius carutta Bloch. 

 1861.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus Menticikkhus Gill. 



Scisena sp. Linn., &c. 



Umbrina sp. Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. p. 297. 



Body elongated, with the dorsal outline arched, very gradually descending 

 from the dorsal to the snout, and slowly descending to the end of the second 

 fin. Abdominal outline nearly straight. 



Head rather elongated, with the profile oblique, and before the eyes slightly 

 arched. Snout convex and considerably protuberant. Eyes of moderate size, 

 situated entirely in the anterior half of the head. Mouth horizontal and infe- 

 rior. Supram axillary bone ending nearly under the posterior border of the 

 eye's pupil, chiefly concealed under the suborbitals. Preopercular margin 

 finely denticulated. Lower jaw with a single barbel, with a pore in front, and 

 with two lateral pores on each side. 



Teeth in both jaws villiform ; in the upper one, the band of villiform ones 

 is surrounded by a row of larger curved ones. 



Anterior dorsal fin sustained by ten or twelve spines, the third of which is 

 frequently more or less prolonged. Anal fin generally with only one very 

 slender spine. Caudal unequally lobed, with the inferior lobe convex and 

 largest. Pectoral fins pointed and scaly at their bases. Ventral shorter and 

 inserted much behind the pectoral. 



The teeth of the pharyngeal bones are elongated and conical. The set's of 

 the first pair of ceratohyals are generally obliquely compressed and short. 

 The dentiferous plates of the branchial arches are thick and ridge-like. 



The American Umbrinfe form a very natural group, distinguished from the 

 typical species by their elongated and very gradually tapering head, the more 

 slender body, the more unequally emarginated caudal, the inferior insertion of 

 the pectorals and their scaly bases, and the posterior origin of the ventrals, as 

 well as the presence of only one very slender anal spine. 



Type. Menticirrhus alburnus Gill. 

 Syn. Umbrina alburnus HoJbrook. 



Genus Umbrina Cuv. 



Umbrina Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. i. p. 297. 1817. 



Body moderately elongated, with the ante-dorsal region moderately curved, 

 and the occipito-nasal profile declining quite rapidly. 



Head oblong, with the snout thick and protuberant. Eyes mostly anterior. 

 Mouth almost horizontal. Supramaxillars mostly retractile under the subor- 

 bitars, ceasing near the vertical of the posterior border of the pupil. Preoper- 

 cular margin finely denticulated. 



Teeth villiform ; the band of the upper jaw encircled by a row of larger 

 ones. 



Antei-ior dorsal fin with about ten spines. Anal with two spines ; the second 

 of which is of moderate size. Ventral fins nearly under or little behind the 

 bases of the pectorals. 



The variable teeth of the lower and median upper pharyngeal bones are 

 oylindro-conic. The setfe are of normal form but short ; the dentiferous plates 

 of the rest of the branchial arches ridge-like. 



Type. Umbrina oirrhosa Cuv. 



GenUs MicROPOGON Cuv. 

 Perca sp. Linn. 

 Umbrina sp. DesmareH. 

 Scisena sp. Quoy and Gaimard. 

 Micropogon Cuv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. v. p. 213. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Body moderately elongated, compressed, quite high and convex at the com- 

 meutement of the dorsal, and thence declining in a slightly nrched line to the 

 snout, and under the second dorsal in a straight descending line. Abdominal 

 outline nearly straight. 



Head ohlong, rapidly declining downwards, and below nearly straight. 

 Snout subtruncated or convex ; little protuberant. Eyes moderate, entirely 

 anterior. Suborbital region quite high. Preoperculum dentated behind, 

 more coarsely towards the angle, where there are two larger distant radiating 

 teeth. Each ramus of the lower jaw with a small row of minute filaments, and 

 the two lateral pores. A very small median symphyseal pore present. 



Mouth inferior, nearly horizontal. Supramaxillary bones extending to the 

 posterior border of the pupil, and chiefly received under the suborbitars. 



Teeth villiform in both jaws, and with an exterior row of larger ones in the 

 upper. 



Anterior dorsal fin with ten spines. Anal fin with the second spine mode- 

 rate and about half as long as the succeeding ray. 



The variable teeth of the lower and median upper pharyngeal bones elon- 

 gated cylindro-conic. The deutiferous laminae of the branchial arches com- 

 pressed, and with a row of larger and much curved teeth on their ridges, decreas- 

 ing in size to their free ends. 



Type. Micropogon costatus Delcay. 

 Sijn. Bodianus costatus Mitchill. 



Micropogon lineatus Cuv. et Val. 



Genus Pachypops Gill. 



Micropogon sp. MiiJl. and Troschel, in Schombiirgh's Reisenin British Guiana, 

 (pt. iii.) p. 622. 184S. 



Body moderately elongated, highest under the first dorsal, declining towards 

 the snout, and under the second dorsal descending in nearly straight direc- 

 tion. Abdominal outline nearly straight. 



Head oblong, with the snout convex and projecting. Eyes large, longitudi- 

 nally elliptical and with a vertical pupil, partly in the posterior half of the 

 head. Suborbital region of moderate height, much swollen and translucent. 

 Preoperculum finely dentated behind and at its angle. Chin with three bar- 

 bels. Pores small. 



Mouth small, inferior and horizontal. Supramaxillary bones entirely con- 

 cealed under the suborbitars. 



Teeth all villiform in a band on each jaw. 



Anterior dorsal fin with ten spines. Anal with its second spine robust, and 

 nearly as long as the succeeding branched ray. 



The variable teeth of the lower and those of the median upper pharyngeal 

 bones are cylindro-conic. The setae of the first ceratohyals are normal. The 

 dentiferous laminae of the arches are thick and ridge-like. 



Type. Pachypops trifilis Gill. 

 Syn. Micropogon trifilis Miill. and Troschel. 



This species appears to have some affinity to the fish called by Cuvier and 

 Valenciennes Corvina Furcrcea, but that species has apparently no barbels ; 

 they could scarcely have been overlooked if they had been present, for the 

 minute pores of the chin are described. 



Genus Genyonemus Gill. 



Leiostomus sp. Ayres, Proceedings California Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 voh i p. 25. 1855. 



Body elongated, nearly equally convex above and below, with the dorso- 

 nasal profile nearly straight. 



Head oblong-conical, with the snout abruptly truncated. Eyes moderate, 



1861.] 




oo PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



entirely anterior. Suborbital chain twice as long as wide. Preopercular 

 margin with, no true spines, but membranous and crenulated by small flexi- 

 ble spiniform processes. Each ramus of the lower jaw internally provided 

 with several small filaments, and with two distinct pores. Symphyseal pore 

 or pores minute. 



Mouth subterminal, slightly oblique. Supramaxillary bones almost con- 

 cealed under the suborbital, extending to the vertical of the hinder border of 

 the pupil. 



Teeth equal and villiform in a band in each jaw. 



Anterior dorsal fin provided with about thirteen slender spines. Anal fin 

 with its second spine short and feeble. Caudal emarginated. 



The pharyngeal bones and branchial arches are essentially the same as those 

 of the ti"ue Micropogons. 



While the type of this genus possesses the filaments of the lower jaw, char- 

 acteristic of Micropogon, it is distinguished eminently by the form of the head 

 and body, and the absence of true armature of the preoperculum. The form 

 is very characteristic, and its style perhaps resembles that of the true Liostomi 

 as much as any other, although it is much more elongated. 



Type. Genyonemus lineatus Gill. 

 Syn. Leiostomus lineatus Ayres, Girard. 



The following is a revised catalogue of the representatives of the subfamily 

 Sciseninse as now restricted, which are found on the eastern coasts of North 

 America : 



Genus Cynoscion Gill. 

 Cynoscion regalis Gill. 



Otolithus regalis Cuv. 

 Cynoscion caroliniensis Gill. 



Otilithus caroliniensis Cuv. et Val. . 



Cynoscion thalassinus Gill. 



Otilithus thalassinus Holhrook. 

 Cynoscion nothus Gill. 



Otolithus nothus Holhrook. 



Genus Homopkion Holhrook. 

 Homoprion lanceolatus Holbrook. 

 Homoprion subtruncatus* Gill. 



Leiostomus xanthurus Cuv. et Val. 



Homoprion xanthurus Holbrook. 



Genus Baikdiella Gill. 

 Bairdiella argyroleuca Gill. 



Genus Johnics Bloch. 

 Johnius ocellatus Girard. 



Corvina ocellata Cuv. ct Val., Storer. 



Genus Menticirkhus Gill. 

 Menticirrhus alburnus Gill. 



Umbrina alburnus Holbrook. 

 Menticirrhus nebulosus Gill. 



Umbrina nebulosa Cuv. 

 Menticirrhus littoralis Gill. 



Umbrina littoralis Holbrook. 



* As previously mentioned, the Homoprion snMruncatus does not appear to belong to 

 the genus Homoprion, but not having seen specimens, we do not yet feel justified in re- 

 lerrmg it to any other. 



[April. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Genus Micropogon Cuv. 



Micropogon costatus Dekay. 



Micropogon lineatus Cuv. et Vol. 

 Micropogon undulatus Cuv. et Val. 



From the western coasts of North America, three species are at present 

 known : 



Genus Rhinoscion Gill. 



Rhinoscion saturnus Gill. 



Amblodon saturnus Girard, 



Genus Menticirkhus Gill. 



Menticirrhus undulatus Gill. 

 Umbrina undulata Girard. 



Genus Gentonemcs Gill. 



Genyonemus lineatus Gill. 



Leiostomus lineatus Aijres, Girard. 



On the LIOSTOMIN^. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the fourth volume of the original edition of the " Histoire Natui'elle," 

 Lacepede has described and figured, from the manuscripts of Mr. Bosc, a single 

 species of fish, for which he formed a new genus, on which he bestowed the 

 name of Leiostomus. The genus in that work is defined as follows : — 



"Les milchoires denuees de dents, et entierement cachees sous les levres ; 

 ces memos levres extensibles ; la bouche placee au-dessous de museau ; point 

 de dentelure ni de piquants aux opercules ; deux nageoires dorsales." 



In the first edition of the " Regne Animal," Cuvier expressed a belief that 

 the species on which that genus was founded should be referred to Scictna,* 

 and in his second edition, referred it, as well as the Labrus obliquus of Mitch- 

 ill,! to the subgenus Johnius of Bloch. 



In the fifth volume of the " Histoire Naturelle des Poissons," the genus 

 Leiostomus was adopted, but was simply distinguished by the small size of the 

 anal spine, the feebleness of the " dentelures " of their preoperculum, and 

 the very fine teeth of the jaws." The latter were said to be so fine, that dif- 

 ferent observers had not perceived them, and that Lacepede had therefore, 

 always confiding in the assertions of others, made of one of the species referred 

 to the group a peculiar genus, called leiostomus, or smooth mouth. J The 

 pharyngeal bones were further stated to have paved teeth on their posterior 

 borders. To the genus thus defined were referred two species ; the first was 

 described as Leiostomus humeralis, and regarded as identical with the Labrus 

 obliquus of Mitchill ; the second as the Leiostomus xanthurus of Lacepede. The 

 two species are distinguished only on account of the greater convexity of the 

 nape and the absence of bands and spots in the latter. The teeth of Leiosto- 



* Je ne doute pas que le leyostome queue jaune, Lac, iv. x. i. ne doive aussi etre rap- 

 proche de ce sous-genre {Scicena)," 1 c, vol. ii. p. 298. 



tThis was called Johnius humeralis, Cuv., and was regarded as probably identical with 

 the Perca undulata of Linnaeus, which last was afterwards, with more propriety, identi- 

 fied with the species now called Micropogon undulatus. 



JThe Leiostomus obliquus has a band of very fine teeth in the upper jaw, which have 

 been overlooked by Bosc. 



1861.J 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF TOE ACADEMY OF 



mus xanthurus are said to be villiform, in a very straight band, and scarcely 

 perceptible, so that they had been stated to be absent. It is moreover affirmed 

 that M. Bosc, who had famished to M. Lacepede the figure and notes on which 

 that naturalist had established the Leiostomus xanthurus, had sent for exami- 

 nation to Cuvier and Valenciennes tlie fish itself. 



Cuvier and Valenciennes having thus stated that both of the Leiostomi were 

 provided with teeth on each of the jaws, Dr. Dekay, in his " New York 

 Fauna," and Dr, Storer, in his "Synopsis," followed them. Dekay, in his diag- 

 nosis of the genus, not daring to disagree with Cuvier, describes the " teeth 

 in the jaws, even and excessively small," and "very minute denticulations 

 on the preoperculum ;" in the description of his Leiostomus obliquus, Dekay 

 again states that the teeth are "so minute as to be visible only with a lens," 

 and that the preoperculum is ' ' minutely denticulate. ' ' Dr. Storer adopted 

 the generic diagnosis formulated by Dekay. 



Dr. Holbrook subsequently framed for a new species and the Leiostomus 

 xanthurus of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and their copyists, a new genus, called 

 Homoprion, remarking at the same time that the latter was " certainly the fish 

 for which Lacepede established his genus Leiostoinus." Notwithstanding this 

 statement, he has retained the name of Leiostomus for the Leiostomus humeralis 

 of Cuvier and Valenciennes,or Leiostomus obliquus of the Americans, thus assign- 

 ing Laeepede's name and authority to a genus with which that laaturalist must 

 have consequently been believed to be unacquainted. The genus thus re- 

 stricted was characterized by the " preopercle smooth or without serratures ; 

 intermaxillary teeth minnte ; posterior pharyngeal teeth paved." The Homo- 

 priontes, on the other hand, had " small, villiform, card-like teeth in both jaws; 

 upper jaw with an external row of larger, conical and pointed teeth ; pharyn- 

 geal teeth not paved ; preopercle with large radiating serratures or spines at 

 its angle. 



We now revert to the description of the Leiostomus xanthurus given by Lace- 

 pede. That description may be divided into two portions : one relates to form 

 and external anatomical or permanent characters ; the other to color, which is 

 evanescent and liable to alteration. 



The zoological characters are as follows, the order being regulated by their 

 respective value : 



Ist. Les machoires denuees de dents, et entierment cachees sous les levres. 



2rf. Point de dentelure ni de piquants aux opercules. 



3c?. Le bout du museau est mousse. 



4f/i. La caudale echancree en croissant. 



5//(. Dix rayons a la premiere nageoire du dos. 



In all of these respects, the species of Lacepede agrees with Leiostomns ob- 

 liquus of the American naturalists, and not with the one named by Cuvier 

 and his followers Leiostomus or Homoprion xanthurus. That species has 



1st. Well developed teeth on both jaws. 



2c?. "Large radiating serratures or spines" at the angle of the preoper- 

 culum. 



3c?, The muzzle scarcely blunt. 



4th. The caudal fin " entire or slightly longest in the middle." 



5th. Eleven spines supporting the first dorsal fin. 



The Leiostomus obliquus agrees then with the species described by Lacepede 

 in all the anatomical peculiarities mentioned,* and by the same characters is 

 the Leiostomus xanthurus of Cuvier distinguished from it. 



Wbat then are the reason that have induced almost all naturalists to refer 

 Laeepede's description to the latter fish ? 



In the first place, the color may be urged as a reason. 



* Lacepede mentions that his species has often only about a decinietre in length, and 

 then its greatest height is nearly four centimetres. The proportions so indicated also best 

 correspond with the Leiostomus obliquus. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Lacepede describes the color of his species thus : 



" II a en eflfet la nageoires de la queue aiusi que les autres nageoires, jaunes 

 ou jauniitres ; elles sout d'ailleures pointillees de noir. Une couleur brune 

 argentine regne sur la partie superieure de I'animal, et un blanc argente sur 

 I'inferieure. L'iris est jaune." 



This description, it must be confessed, is more applicable to the so-called 

 Homoprion xanthurusi\\&u to the Leiostomus obliquus, especially that part which 

 refers to the silvery whiteness of the lower parts. But it also equally applies 

 to an individual of the latter species, whose bands and humeral spot have 

 faded, and whose scales have been rubbed from the belly, as is frequently the 

 case with old, dried or alcoholic specimens. 



Bosc, while taking his description and figure of the species from a dried or 

 preserved specimen of the Leiostomus obliquus, from which the bands and hu- 

 meral spot had disappeared, to complete the description of the color, may pos- 

 sibly have had either recourse to a fresh specimen of the "yellow tail, " or 

 Homoprion xanthurus, which was casually and separately examined, or per- 

 haps relied partly on the description of another. At most, the description of 

 the coloration is the only documcntanj evidence to which we can appeal in sup- 

 port of the views of the identity of the Homoprion xanthurus with Leistomus 

 xanthurus. Appeal must be then made to other sources. 



As already mentioned, Cuvier and Valenciennes have informed us that 

 Bosc had sent to them the same species as that described by Lacepede.* 

 This statement may be thus explained. 



The specimen whose anatomical characters were described and figured by 

 Bosc, could not have been the one sent ; that forwarded was believed to be- 

 long to the same species as the one described, on account of the identity of 

 popular names. The original, with the color faded, had probably been 

 pronounced to be the "yellow tail. " The statement was doubtless 

 accepted as true, and no comparison made to ascertain whether such was 

 the case. A demand having been afterwards made for a specimen of the 

 species described, one of the true "Yellow tail " was obtained and sent as 

 belonging to it, reliance being placed on the correct application of the popular 

 names. This theory is assumed, as it is deemed to be inadmissible to go be- 

 hind the descrfption to such a position, when the description and specimen so 

 strongly conflict, and when that description is so applicable to a common 

 species found in the same regions. It is not stated that the tijpe of Bosc's 

 original description and figure was sent. The name of Leiostomus is therefore 

 retained for the species without teeth on the lower jaw, and with an entire 

 preoperculum. 



While it may be admitted that the name of Leiostomus can be retained for 

 the genus, it may be still questioned whether the specific name can be ac- 

 cepted. 



As the description, so far as it goes, is applicable to the Leioi^tomus obliquus, 

 and the fault is simply due to an omission of mention of the oblique bands 

 and the humeral spot, which are frequently faded, we are of the opinion that 

 the specific name must be also retained. 



Cuvier and Valenciennes' assignation of teeth to both jaws of the Leiostomus 

 humeralis can be only explained on the supposition of their belief in the uni- 

 vt-rsality of the characters of dentition, and their conclusion that the species 

 must have teetli because apparently nearly allied ones had. 



The rest of the description and the radial formula are more applicable to 

 that species which has been called by the same name by subsequent natural- 

 ists, or the Homoprion xanthurus of Holbrook. 



Can the specific name of xanthurus be retained for the species described under 

 that name ? 



* " M. Bosc, qui avail fourni a M. de Lacepede le dessin et la note dont il a tir^ son ar' 

 tide, a bien voulu nous donner le polsson uimeme, et nous sommes ainsi assures de I'es 

 pece." 



1861.] 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



We consider that it would be wrong to do so, although the species belongs 

 to a different genus from the Leiostomus xantkurus of Lacepede. The name of 

 Lacepede was adopted for that species under an erroneous impression, and 

 that of Homoprion xanthurus was applied with the express understanding that 

 it was " certainly the fish for which Lacepede established his genus Leiosto- 

 mus.''^ It has been demonstrated that documentary evidence does not support 

 this assertion. The retention of tlie name of Holbrook would therefore per- 

 petuate an error ; the name of Homoprion suhtruncatus has been consequently 

 offered as a substitute in the " Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern coast of 

 North America." 



There has been recently referred to the genus Liostomus, a fish found on the 

 coast of California. It has been called by Dr. W. 0. Ayres, Leiostomus lineatus, 

 and again described and figured from nature by Dr. Girard, under the same 

 name. 



After a perusal of the description of that species, it is evident that it does 

 not belong to the genus Liostomus, but, from its imperfection, it remains doubt- 

 ful to what genus it really should be referred. A cursory examination would 

 remind the naturalist of the Jolinii, but on a more careful investigation, all 

 the teeth of the upper jaw are found to be small and equal, and several small 

 but distinct barbels are discovered along the inner margin of each limb of the 

 lower jaw. The genus Alicropor/on is therefore at once suggested, but the 

 species differs from the other representatives of that genus in the armature of 

 the preoperculum, the form of the caudal fin and the number of rays in the 

 dorsal and anal. It consequently appears to belong to a different genus, to 

 which no name has yet been given. The name of Gemjonemus may be there- 

 fore bestowed on it. 



Agreeing, therefore, with Holbrook, and removing the Leiostomus xanthurus, 

 of Cuvier and Valenciennes from the genus, and having shown that the Leios- 

 tomus lineatus of Ayres and Girard is to be also excluded, the type of the genus 

 is the only species yet known. That single species can at once be distinguished 

 from all other Scijenoids by its peculiar form and tout ensemble. That pecu- 

 liarity of appearance is also coincident with most important anatomical char- 

 acters which indicate that the relations of the species are far less intimate 

 with other genera than has been supposed. Those characterislics are of such 

 a nature as appears to necessitate the establishment of a distinct subfamily 

 for the Liostomi. The name of Liostomince is therefore now conferred on it. 

 The diagnoses of the subfamily and genus will be given. 



Subfamily Liostomin^ Gill. 



The body is compressed and subovate, covered with ctenoid scales. The 

 lower jaw is received within the upper. Teeth are present only in the upper 

 jaw. 



The first dorsal fin commences over or before the bases of the pectorals, and 

 is longer than high. The ventral fins are inserted under or slightly behind 

 the pectoral. 



The lower pharyngeal bones when united present a hastate form ; the exter- 

 nal sides are incurved or emarginated ; they are contiguous to each other for 

 the whole of their internal sides ; from the apes of the basal emargination, 

 they are curved outwards or convex. Each bone is thickest behind, and there 

 is a high marginal or submarginal ridge which is mos'- elevated towards the 

 posterior third. 



The upper pharyngeal bones of each side are only two in number ; the an- 

 terior is semi-oval, and is emarginated to receive the posterior, which is of 

 an irregular ovoid form, and larger than the anterior. 



The teeth of the pharyngeal bones are not conical. 



The setffi of the ceratohyals of the first pair of branchial arches are of mode- 

 rate length. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Genus Liostomus Lacepede. 



Leiostonius Lac^phde Hist. Nat. vol. ir. p. 439. 

 Leiostomus Holhrook, Southern Ichthyology, p. 21. 1847. 



Body subovate, compressed, highest under the first dorsal, Abdominal 

 outline less arched than the dorsal. 



Head short, with the fronto-occipital region very oblique, and the snout 

 high, subtruncated, and slightly convex. Eyes rather large, and mostly or 

 wholly anterior. Suborbital region high. 



Mouth small, scarcely oblique. Supramaxillars terminating under the 

 pupils, and mostly retractile under the suborbitars. 



Teeth in a villiform band in the upper jaw ; entirely absent in the lower. 



Preoperculum broadly rounded and entire, but with an apparently crenu- 

 lated membranous margin. Lateral and symphyseal pores present. 



Anterior dorsal fin sustained by ten spines. Anal with its second spine 

 short and weak. Caudal emarginated. 



The lower pharyngeal bones are furnished internally near their interno-pos- 

 terior margins with several rows of more or less truncated and excavated 

 molar teeth ; their other teeth are elongated and compressed, most slender 

 near their bases, curved with a sigmoid flexure. Their terminal portions 

 especially are of a burnt brown or blackish color. 



The posterior of the upper pharyngeal bones are also paved internally near 

 their ends with several rows of molars like those of the lower bones. The 

 rest of the posterior and the whole of the anterior pharyngeals are provided 

 with elongated, compressed teeth, most slender below, sigmoidally curved, 

 and with a constriction a short distance from the tip, which gives the apex an 

 unguiform aspect. 



The setfe of the first pair of ceratohyals are furnished with nearly colorless 

 and very slender teeth ; the dentiferous lamin?e of the rest of the branchial 

 arches are comi^ressed, and their margins armed with slender, deeply colored 

 teeth like those of the lower pharyngeal bones. 



The elongated teeth of the longer pharyngeals and the branchial arches 

 have some resemblance to the teeth of the pharyngeal bones of Cyprinoids, 

 called by Heckel raptatorial, ("dentes raptatorii") but are much more slen- 

 der, especially at the base. 



Type. Liostomus xanthurus Lac. 

 Syn. Leiostomus humeralis Cuv. et Val. 

 Leiostomus obliquus Dekaij, 



On the identity of the Genera NEOM^NIS of Girard, and LTITJANXJS of 



Bloch. 



Br THEODORE GILL. 



In the Ninth Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, a species of fish 

 has been described and referred to the genus Lobotes, under the name of Lo- 

 botes emarginatus. A few specimens of the species were taken in August, 

 among the grass along the banks of Egg Harbor river at Beesley's Point. 



Subseqi:ently, Dr. Charles Girard, in his Report on the Ichthyology of the 

 United States and Mexican Boundary Survey, framed for the species a new 

 genus, to which he gave the name of Neomcenis, and which he referred to the 

 family of Mcenidae. 



On an examination of the description and figures given in that Report, it 

 was evident that the species did not belong to either the families of Sciaenoids 

 or Msenoids, as those groui>s have been characterized by Cuvier, and accepted 

 by almost all subsequent naturalists. It appeared to belong to the genus Me- 

 aoprion, of the family of Percoids, but as no description was given of the ex- 



1861.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tent and character of the squamation, it was impossible to arrive at a certain 

 conclusion without further evidence. 



The specimens preserved in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution 

 were afterwards searched for and found, and it was then discovered that they 

 certainly belonged to the genus Mesoprion, as defined by Cuvier. 



None of the descriptions of the various species of that genus, and especially 

 of those found in the West Indies, were found to apply to the species in ques- 

 tion, and it appears quite distinct. The specific names, although applicable 

 to all the typical representatives of the genus, must be then retained, and 

 after reference to its proper genus, it will assume the name of Lutjanus emar- 

 ginatus. The genus Lutjanus having been founded on allied species, and its 

 first representative being a true Mesoprion of Cuvier, the former name takes 

 precedence of the latter. 



In the " Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North America," 

 the Neomcenis emarginatus has been adopted with that name, and referred to 

 the subfamily of Lobotince, and the family of Pristipomatoids. Neither the 

 specimens on which the species was founded, nor the Report of Dr. Girard 

 were at hand when the list of the Pristipomatoids was compiled, and the 

 author relied on the original description, where only the form and coloration 

 were mentioned. A simple note had been made in the margin that the genus 

 Neomesnis had been established by Girard for it, and as it evidently did not 

 belong to Lohotes, that name was adopted. As it had been referred to 

 Lobotes, it was presumed that there was a strong likeness to the species 

 of that genus, and it was consequently referred to the subfamily of 

 Lobotinse; as, however, the form was described as " elongated subfusiform," 

 and the caudal as " emarginated posteriorly," and as the color resembled 

 that of some of the species of Hcemulon, the genus Neomcenis was supposed 

 to form a passage from the Lobotinje to the Pristipomatinse. 



It is worthy of note that Dr. Bleeker has also made a mistake similar to 

 that committed by the North American naturalists. In the Natuurkundig 

 Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, he has first described a fish as Dentex 

 pristipoma, for which he afterwards formed a new genus, and called the spe- 

 cies Pristipomoides ti/pus, and which he subsequently referred to the genus 

 Mesoprion, to which it appears to truly belong. Dr. Giinther has retained the 

 genus Pristipomoides in his Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fish, having 

 probably overlooked the correction by Dr. Bleeker of his error. 



The history of those fishes is interesting, as it is evident that when such 

 excellent and celebrated naturalists have referred representatives of the Percoid 

 Lutjani to different genera of Pristipomatoids, the distinction between the 

 family of Percoids and Pristipomatoids must be very slight. 



There is indeed the strongest resemblance between the Lutjani, Pristi- 

 pomatinffi and Sparoids ; and the typical Percoids, Pristipomatoids, Sparoids 

 and Pimelepteroids will perhaps be found to belong to one true family. 



At the time of the compilation of the Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern 

 Coast, we were aware of the affinity of those families, but adopted some of 

 them in deference to other authors, and others to make of more nearly equal 

 value the different groups. It was intended to restrict the name of Percoids to 

 those fishes which have the aspect of Perca and Serranus, whose vomerine and 

 palatine bones are provided with acute teeth, and whose jaws have acumi- 

 nate ones ; the palatine teeth are rarely absent. 



The Pristipomatoids included those fishes whose jaws are moderately pro- 

 tractile, and furnished with acute teeth ; the palatine arch is edentulous. . 

 The form is exemplified in Hamidon, The Sparoids have a dentition which is 

 well described by Giinther — " Either trenchant teeth in front of the jaws, or 

 lateral series of molar teeth.^' The Pimelepteroids, included by Giinther among 

 the Sparoids, were regarded as forming a distinct family, characterized by the 

 trenchant teeth in front of the jaws, the presence of palatine teeth, and the 

 dense squamation of the vertical fins. The Sparoids consequently embraced 

 only those whose palatine arch was unarmed. There is between many of the 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



forms thus brought together a strong likeness, but yet there are others which, 

 in almost all anatomical and zoological characters, show a greater affinity to 

 species that by those principles of classification would be referred to distinct 

 families. While the above mentioned families are therefore for the present 

 retained, it is with the understanding that such is done simply because our 

 knowledge of the true principles of classification is not sufficiently perfect, and 

 not because they are believed to be founded in nature. The typical Percoids, 

 Pristipomatoids, Sparoids and Primelepteroids, appear, for example, to be as 

 nearly allied to each as are ,the Rhyptici to the Percoids. They cannot be 

 distinguished by any character except the dentition ; and characters drawn 

 from that alone, important as it is in many cases, can scarcely of itself be 

 sufficient to establish family groups. It is probable that all of those fishes 

 will hereafter be united, and quite a different distribution of the genera be 

 adopted. 



ITotes on the Habits of APHBEDODERUS SAYANTJS. 

 BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



If we except the knowledge of this fish's existence, nothing seems to be 

 known concerning it; though few of our fluviatile species have a greater geo- 

 graphical distribution, or are more numerous in many extended and widely 

 separated localities. At Camden, New Jersey, this species abounds in immense 

 numbers ; during spring, in schools, similar in size and general appearance, to 

 the young o( Amiurus De Kayi or atrarius; in summer and autumn remaining 

 in pairs generally, though often in companies of from five to nine ; in winter 

 scattered irregularly through the streams ; each seeking shelter, and generally 

 more than half burying themselves in the sand; though to clay or plastic mud 

 they seem to have a great aversion. 



The Aphredoderus is most strictly carnivorous, and appears to delight in the 

 unnecessary destruction of all malacopterygian fishes, not excepting its own 

 species, if they be too weak to withstand its attacks. Immature cyprinoids are 

 its favorite food, though the Mclanura anmdata is chiefly its victim. Being 

 strictly nocturnal in its habits, little opportunity is offered to learn its peculiar 

 mode of capturing its prey, but from the fact of often finding the tail of a 

 cyprinoid projecting from the jaws of the Aphredoderus, and from the position 

 in which the author has universally found the prey, when specimens were dis- 

 sected, there is little doubt that ''head foremost'' is the usual fashion. The 

 dentition is not of such character as to lead to the idea of extreme carnal 

 propensities of the species in question ; and yet it may be doubted if any fluvia- 

 tile species is more so, if we except the Belone longirostris. The pikes we know 

 are strictly carnivorous, but there is no instance in our memory of that fish 

 destroying others for the mere sake of destruction. Three specimens living, a 

 few months since, in the aquarium of the Academy, were attentively watched 

 by the author, and in the space of eleven days they had destroyed twenty-seven 

 black-nosed dace, (^Argyrcus atronasus,) and by continued worrying succeeded 

 in the destruction of a mud sun-fish, {Ambloplites pomoiis*) nearly quad- 

 ruple their size. 



From the comparison of specimens from different localities, it is highly 

 probable that two species may be detected. The author has taken specimens 

 near Philadelphia, exactly coinciding with Gilliam's description, but varying 

 in the general tint of the body, and in the want of the white margin of the 

 caudal fin. On examining specimens from Cedar Swamp Creek, N. J., taken 

 by Prof. S. F. Baird, and the originals of his description, in his Report of the 



*This fish was first described by Baird, as Centrarchus pomotis ; but is congeneric with 

 Amblopliies nipestris Gill, and must be so referred. 

 Amoloplites pomotis Abb. 



Centrarchus pomotis Baird, Ninth Smith. Rep. p. 325. 



1861.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Fishes of the New Jersey Coast, they were found to differ from those found 

 more inland, taken at Trenton, N. J., but coincided with the original diagnosis; 

 there are at least two varieties, one characterized by their larger size, chocolate 

 brown color of the body, and unmarked caudal, the other, much smaller, nearly 

 black, with a white margin to the caudal fin, wider at the angles and lost near 

 the centre of the posterior edge of the fin. 



No opportunities have as yet been offered to see the spawning of this species; 

 but that it guards its ova as the Pomotis maculatus,* Gill, is highly probable. 

 The ova in all probability are deposited very early in March, in the latitude of 

 Philadelphia, as very yeung specimens were taken by the author on the third 

 of the present month. The young were swimming in loose shoals, and were 

 accompanied by a number of adult specimens, who were guarding ihem from 

 the ravages of the pike, (that they themselves mighi feast the better.) 



Description of a new genus (STREPHOBASIS) of the family MELANID.E, and 

 three new species. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 

 Family MELANID^. 

 Genus Strephobasis. 



Testa cylindracea. Apertura subquadrata. Columella inferne incrassata 

 et retro-canaliculata. Operculum corneum, instar spirse. 



The moUusk for which I propose this genus, was sent to me by Wm. Spill- 

 man, M. D., of Columbus, Mississippi, and I have before me over a dozen 

 specimens from a third to nearly an inch in length. The very great number 

 of species of the genus Melania, makes it desirable to eliminate any group with 

 characters sufficiently distinct to permanently recognize it. The very remarka- 

 ble retrose callus at the base of the column, causing a lateral sinus, is charac- 

 teristic of this genus. 



Strephobasis Spillmanii. — Testa Isevi, cylindracea, crassiuscula, vel tene- 

 broso-fusca vel virente, valde vittata, nitida ; spira obtusS,, curta, ad apicem 

 carinata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus superne convexiusculis, 

 ultimo constricto ; apertura subgrandi, subquadrata, intus caerulescenti et 

 valde vittata ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella sinuosa, ad basim incrassata 

 et retro canaliculata. 



Hab. — Tennessee River. Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



Strephobasis cornea. — Testa laevi, cylindracea, crassa, cornea ; spira ob- 

 tusa ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus superne convexiusculis, ultimo 

 constricto ; apertura rhombo-quadrata, intus luteo-alba ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; 

 columella sinuosa, ad basim incrassata et retro-canaliculata. 



Operculum small, ovate, spiral, dark brown, with the polar-point near the 

 base. 



Hab. — Tennessee River. Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



Strephobasis Clarkii. — Testfl, laevi, cylindracea, subtenui, luteo-corned, 

 trivittata ; spira valde obtusa, curta ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus quinis, superne convexiusculis, ultimo constricto ; apertura subgrandi, 

 quadrata, intus albida, valde vittata ; labro acuto ; columella sinuosa, ad basim 

 alba, incrassata et retro-canaliculata. 



Uab. — Tennessee River, at Chattanooga, Tennessee. Joseph Clark. 



*The author has lately seen in a large aquarium, the Bryttus cliatodon guarding its 

 nest and eggs similarly to the manner of the common sun-fish. This may be a habit, 

 characteristic of the family IchthclidcB, as the Ichihelis rubricauda has often been 

 noticed making its nest in May, after the manner of the type of the family, though in- 

 variably preferring deeper water, which may be a reason of its not having been gene- 

 rally noticed. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



On the Marine Shells brought by Mr. Drexler from Hudson's Bay, and on the 

 occnrrenqe of a Pleistocene deposit on the Southern shore of James' Bay. 



BY WM. STIMPSON. 



Mr. Drexler, who last summer visited the south-eastern shores of Hudson's 

 Bay, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, has brought home some 

 shells which it will be of interest to notice here, since nothing has been hitherto 

 published upon the molluscous fauna of that region. The physical conditions 

 of the bay do not seem to be favorable to any great development of true marine 

 moUusks at the present day, though we have evidence of an abundance of deep- 

 sea species at a former epoch. The waters of the bay are now mostly shallow 

 and somewhat brackish. 



Cape Hope, the point at which the marine shells were collected, is situated 

 on the eastern side of James' Bay, in latitude about 52° 10' N. Only three spe- 

 cies of these shells were found alive, but these occurred in great numbers, 

 above low water mark. They were 

 Mytilus edulis L. 



Macoma frag His 0. Fabr. {T. griinlandica.) 

 Liltorina gronlandica Chemn. 

 The Littorina reaches a large size, (0-65 inch,) and is probably identical with 

 L. tenebrosa. We cannot distinguish it from specimens from Greenland. 



The following species were found dead at Cape Hope, perhaps washed out of 

 some pleistocene deposit, as they are the characteristic species of that period. 

 Rhynchondla psitlacf-a Ch. 

 Pecten islandicus Miili. 

 Cardium islandicum Ch. 

 Astarte arctica (Gra}-.) 

 Astarte striata (Leach.) 

 Mya truncata Lin. 

 Admete viridula (0. Fabr.) 

 The specimens of Cardium were much eroded on the outer surface, leaving 

 sharp, distant, crenulated, concentric ridges, as in those from the pleistocene of 

 Lake Champlain. 



The southern part of James' Bay is so shallow that even small boats must go 

 out of sight of land to find water deep enough to enable them to float at low 

 tide. This part, called Hannah Bay, forms the embouchure of the Hannah river, 

 in which Mr. Drexler collected many fresh water shells, chiefly elongated 

 Lymnece, and large Planorbes. In a box of these shells we found a considerable 

 number of marine species, evidently fossils washed out of the river banks, 

 indicating the existence there of an extensive marine pleistocene deposit. The 

 following is a list of the species, which, with one exception, are deep water 

 forms. 



Mytilus edulis Lin. 

 Nucula iTpansa Reeve {N. tenuis.) 

 Yoldia porllandica (Hitch.) 

 Leda pernula (Miill.) 



Macoma sahulosa (Spengl.) (T. proxima.) 

 Of these, the Yoldia porllandica was most abundant, about twenty specimens 

 being found, with valves united, among which there were forms exactly cor- 

 responding to Y. siliqua Reeve, which appears to be only a vaiiety. This spe- 

 cies is now found living in the Arctic seas, where it was dredged by Capt. Sir 

 Edward Belcher. We may here remark that we have met with living examples 

 of Antarte, exactly corresponding to A. laurentiana, so that none of the boreal 

 pleistocene species yet found in North America can be regarded as extinct. 



1861.] 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



May 1th. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 

 Papers were presented for publication, entitled : 

 " On the Haploidonotinffi," by Theo. Gill. 

 " On the Genus Anisotremus," by Theo. Gill. 

 And were referred to committees. 



The report of Mr. E. Duraud upon the collection of plants recently received 

 from Dr. Linceciim, of Long-Point, Texas, in which he congratulates the 

 Academy upon having acquired in Dr. Lincecum a zealous and useful corres- 

 pondent, was read. The collection above referred to, of Texas plants, consists 

 of 682 species or varieties, 540 of which are Exogenous, divided as follows : 

 PolypeiaJons, 207 ; Monopdalous, 244 ; Apetalous, 84 : Gymnospermous, 5. One 

 hundred and forty are Endogenous, of which 106 belong to Cyperacece and 

 Graminece. One Equisetum and one Fern. 



Prof. Gill exhibited and described two new species of marine fishes. The type 

 specimens of both are preserved in the Museum of the Academy, and said to 

 have been obtained at Newport, Rhode Island. 



The first is nearly related to the genera Epinephelus and Bypoplectrus. It 

 differs from the former by the nudity of the superior surface of the head, the 

 scales of the ante-dorsal region extending in front only to a semi-circular line 

 whose convexity reaches little beyond the vertical of the ascending margin of 

 the preoperculum. From Z^yjsf^/ec^/-?/* Gill,* of which the Plectropoma puella 

 Cuv. et Val. may be considered as typical, it differs by the inferior armature 

 of the preoperculum, which is similar to thutof Epinephelus. The Serranus scriba 

 has, also, the upper surface of the head naked, but its form is different ; what 

 generic name is to be accepted for that species is perhaps doubtful. 



The new species may be called 



Hyporthodus flavicauda. 



The cheeks and opcrcula, as well as the supramaxillary bones, are covered 

 with scales. The lower jaw is naked. 



The preoperculum has at its angle a strong spine, which is itself more or less 

 dentated ; its ascending margin is vertical and quite strongly serrated ; its 

 horizontal inferior margin has also several more distant teeth. The operculum 

 is armed with three spines. 



The number of rays is indicated in the following formula : 



D. XL 14. A. III. 10. P. 17. V. I. 5. 



The color of the body may be described as tawny, minutely punctulated with 

 brown or black, which so prevail on the caudal peduncle, the dorsal, anal and 

 ventral fins, that those parts are quite black. There are on each side four narrow 

 lighter bands, along each of which are also about three light blue spots. The 

 caudal and pectoral fins are yellowish. The articulated portions of the dorsal 

 and anal exterior to a line continuous with the margin of the spinous portions 

 are lighter, and also assume a yellowish hue. The first transverse line extends 

 from the fifth or sixth spines of the dorsal to the axilla of the pectoral fin ; the 

 second from the eighth dorsal spine ; the third from the eleventh ; the fourth 

 from about the fifth articulated ray. 



The species, on account of its coloration, resembles the Hypopleclrus 

 chloniriis Gill, {Plectropoma chlortirimi Cuv. etVal.,) as much as any other, but is 



* The genus Hypopleclrus is proposed for the Plectropoma puella and allied species of 

 the Caribbean sea. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF miLADELPHIA. 99 



generically distinct, and a true Serranus Cut. Two specimens were obtained at 

 Newport, Rhode Island, by Messrs. X. andE. Smith. Both specimens are young, 

 the length being less than two inches. 



The second species noticed belonged to the genus Sarothrodux* and was per- 

 haps most nearly related to a species of the West Indies recently described by 

 Dr. Giinther, under the name of Chaetodon gracilis. The new species was named 



SaROTHRODUS MACULO-CIXCTrS. 



The dorso-nasal profile was less steep than that of the Surothrodus gra- 

 cilis. The course of the lateral line presented also a characteristic difference ; it 

 suddenly advances with a very slight curve to near the base of about the 

 fifth articulated ray of the dorsal fin, and is then deflected, and runs under 

 the base of the dorsal nearly to the end of that fin. 



The fins are nearly similar in form to Sarothrodus gracilis and its allies. The 

 third anal spine is not longer, or is even shorter than the second. The number 

 of rays is expressed by the following formula : 



D. XII. 18. A. III. 16. P. 15. V. I. 6. 



The color of the body is yellowish, or whitish minutely dotted with black, 

 ornamented with an anterior and posterior blackish brown band. The an- 

 terior separates in front of the dorsal, from its fellow of the opposite side at 

 an acute angle, passes over the eye, and extends to the inferior margin of the 

 interoperculum ; it is narrower than the orbit. The posterior is as wide as the 

 anterior, convex behind, and expands into a large darker spot on the basal 

 half of the dorsal fin between the second and twelfth articulated rays, and into 

 a similar one at the base of the anal between its first and tenth articulated 

 rays. The peduncle of the tail behind the fins is of the same color as the rest 

 of the body. The fins are dotted like the body ; the ventrals very densely. The 

 dorsal and anal fins have not a dark marginal or submarginal line. 



This species is most nearly allied to the Sarothrodus gracilis,^ but is readily 

 distinguished by the number of rays and color. In that species, the posterior 

 band passes over the caudal peduncle, covers the hinder part of the anal and 

 dorsal fins, and is continued more faintly on the basal half of the entire articu- 

 lated portion of the latter. The articulated portions of the dorsal and anal fins 

 have a very narrow, light border, and on the former there is also a narrow sub- 

 marginal blackish line. 



A single young specimen, little more than an inch long, is in the Museum of 

 the Academy, and was presented by Mrs. E. P. Alason. 



The thanks of the Academy were tendered to Mr. Horatio C. Wood, 

 Jr., for the valuable donation received from him at this meeting. 



Mai/ Wtli. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



The number of the Proceedings of the Acaden)y for April was laid 

 on the table. 



*This name is proposed for the typical species of Chaelodon, or such as Chaetodon 

 capislratus of Linnxiis. The name vi' (Jhaetodon cannot be retained (or the present 

 genus, as Artedi, who first characterized it in his " Genera I'iscinm," referred to it only 

 tour species, none of which belong to this genus. The first and fourth are Pomacanlhi. 

 The name of Chaetodon may consequently be substituted for Pomacanihns. 



t Chaetodon gracihs Giiniher Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, vol. ii. p. 20. 



Chaetodon sedentarius Poey Memorias sobre la Historia JNatural de la Isla de Cuba, 

 torn. ii. p. 203. 



A specimen from St. Croix obtained by Dr. Griffith is in the Museum of the Academy. 



1861.] 




100 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



May 2 Is/. 



Vice President Bridges, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members preseut. 

 Papers were presented for publication, entitled : 

 " Descriptions of Fortj-nine New Species of the Genus Malaniti," by 

 Isaac Lea. 



*' Synopsis of the Uranoscopoids," by Theo. Gill. 



May 2S(h. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight members present. 



On report of tlio respective committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



On the HAPLOIDONOTINJE. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



There are found in the larger fresh water rivers and lakes of North America, 

 west of the Rocky Mountains, and in the sea and inlets along its eastern and 

 gulf coast, fishes wliich have the closest external resemblance to the typical 

 Scisenoids, and especially to the Corvince. Yet those fishes whose external 

 characters are scarcely suflicient to even justify generic separation from the 

 Corvince are distinguished by a structure of the lower pharyngeal bones, which 

 is entirely different from that exhibited by the corresponding bones of the 

 Sciseuinse. The difference existing between them is of such character that the 

 learned Johannes Miiller considered himself justified in assigning to them an 

 ordinal value, and his views have been since adopted by almost all of the 

 most learned ichthyologists. In the Sciseninse, the lower pharyngeal bones 

 are always and as decidedly distinct from each other as in any of the Acan- 

 thopteri of Miiller. In the fishes now under discussion, the corresponding 

 hones of the adult are firmly and immovably united in the same manner as 

 those of the Pharyngognathi. The study of them is therefore of the greatest 

 interest and importance, for we have thus the simple question of the value of 

 the comparative characters of one part of the organization, relieved of all 

 secondary considerations, to decide upon. There are no other diflferences of 

 structure to accompany this one supposed fundamental character. 



There had been previously known many forms, which had respectively the 

 acantliopteran and pharyngognathan pharyngeal bones, which mutually re- 

 semble each other. Such are the Ceutrarchinso and the Chromoids. The mem- 

 bers of these two groups have a very strong resemblance to each other. This 

 is equally exhibited in form, in the armature of the fins, in color and in habits. 

 But it is found that while the first fishes have always teeth, at least on the 

 vomer, six branchiostegal rays and an entire lateral line, the Chromoids have 

 the palatine arch entirely edentulous, only five branchiostegal rays, and the 

 lateral line always interrupted ; it may perhaps be also added that the fishes 

 of the last family have the intermaxillary bones with longer ascending 

 processes, and consequently capable of greater protrusion than those of the 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



first. It may consequently be argued that the resemblance is one of analogy 

 rather than of actual affinity, but with the fishes now under consideration, 

 such can scarcely be argued. It can not be truly said that the real afiiuities 

 are veiled under analogical resemblances, where all of the organization save 

 one part is similar. For witli the exception of the pharyngeal bones, there is 

 no difi'erence of at most mote than generic importance between some of the 

 genera of Scisenina? and those of Haploidonotina;. The form is similar ; the 

 characteristic peculiarities of the skeleton, the intestinal canal and the rest of 

 the viscera, the squamation, the structure of the fins, the peculiar incisions of 

 the margin of the snout between the preorbital bones, the pores of the lower 

 jaw, the number of branchiostegal rays, the dentition, and all other features, 

 are reproduced in the respective genera. Such being the case, we cannot 

 hesitate to believe that the likeness between the Haploidonotinaj and the 

 Sciaeninse is truly indicative of afiinity, and we are then naturally led to the 

 conclusion that Miiller's Pharyngognathi are not entitled to ordinal distinction, 

 although admitting that the Acanthopteran Pharyngognathi, known to that 

 illustrious biologist, are natural associates. 



The subfamily of Haploidonotinffi, so far as is yet known, is entirely confined 

 to North America. Only two genera are known, one characterized by the pre- 

 sence of small filaments beneath the chin and lower jaw, is represented by 

 two species found along the Atlantic coast of North America. They are the 

 Pogonias fasciatus Lac, and Pogonias chroniis Cuv. The second has no fila- 

 ments, and its species are fluviatile and lacustrine ; the name of Aplodinotus 

 was first conferred on it by Rafinesque. 



As the name of Aplodinotus, or according to its etymology, Uapioidonotns, is 

 here for the first time restored, it seems advisable to review the reasons which 

 have induced us to adopt this in face of the assertion made by Rafinesque in 

 the Ichthyologia Ohiensis. Rafinesque has there* characterized a genus 

 which he has called Amhlodon, and has remarked that it was called by him 

 ^^Aplodinotus Gr. 8, of my Memoir on 70 New Genera of American animals, in 

 the Journal History of Paris, having been led into error, in supposing that the 

 remarkable teeth of its throat belonged to the Buffalo-fish, as will be seen 

 below." Under the sp.ecific description, he givesf a very good account of the 

 pharyngeal dentition, and adds that "these teeth and their bones are common 

 in many museums, where they are erroneously called teeth of the Buffalo-fish, 

 or of a cat-fish. I was deceived so far by this mistake, and by the repeated 

 assertions of several persons, as to ascribe those teeth to the Butl'alo-fish, which 

 I have since found to be a real catastomus ; this error I now correct with 

 pleasure." 



Rafinesque, with accustomed carelessness, has reversed the proposition. It 

 was under the name of Amhlodon that he formerly described the lower pharyn- 

 geal bones of the Scisenoid, assigning them to two catastomoids. Under the 

 name of Aplodinotus, he indicated as correctly as was customary with him the 

 external features of the genus of Scijenoids. As the Journal in which his 

 descriptions were published, is almost inaccessible in America, the following 

 abstract is offered, the series being in the Library of the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion: 



8. Aplodinotus (Thoraciciue). Corps oblong comprime. Tete et opercules 

 ecailleux, preopercules dentelcs, second opercule membraneux inerme, mem- 

 branes branchiales a 6 rayons. Levres extensibles a petites dents en rape. 

 Deux nageoires dorsales confluentes, la premiere a rayons epineux, la seconde 

 sans rayons epineux, ecailleuse longitudinalement a sa base. Nageoires 



*Ichihyo]ogia Ohiensis, p. 24. 

 tichlhjologia Ohiensis, p. 25. 



1861.] 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



thoraciqnes sans appendices, a 7 rayons dont 1 epineux, anus posterieur. Le 

 type de ce genre est un beau et excellent poisson de I'Ohio, A. grunniens, qui 

 pese quelque fois jusqu' a 30 liv., et que Ton y nomme Ohio Perch, ou Grunting 

 P<rrch (Perclie grognante,) parce qu'il produit souvent un grognementparticu- 

 lier. Entierement argente, a rentlets dores, ligne laterale courbe posterieure- 

 ment, queue lunulee, 1 rayon dorsal et anal extremement court, 2 rayons des 



2 

 thoraciques mucroncs. D. 9, 35. A.—. P. 18. C. 20. Ce genre est voisin du 



7 

 genre Scicena, les opercules et nageoires ecailleux Ten distinguent. 



16. Amblodon (Abdominal). Different du genre Catastomits. Machoire in- 

 ferieure pavee de dents osseuses serrees, arrondies, a eouronne plate, inegales. 

 Les poissons de ce genre, qui abondent dans I'Ohio, le Missouri et le Missis- 

 sipi, sont distin^ues par le nom vulgaire de Bvffalo-Jish (Poisson buffle,)et les 

 Frangois de la Louisiane les nomment Piconeau. II y en plusieurs espices qui 

 parviennent souvent a une tres grosse taille. Les deux suivanshabitent dans 

 rOhio. 1. A. bubalus, Brunchiatre, pale dessous, Joues blanchatres, D. 28, 

 A. 12, P. 16, A. 19, C. 24. L' A. niger est entierement noir ; tons deux ont 

 la ligne latcrale droite, queue bilobee, tete tronquee, etc. lis scut tres-bons 

 a manger. 



After a perusal of the above descriptions, there can be no doubt that if they 

 alone are consulted, the name of Aplodlnotus must be retained. But it is with 

 much reluctance that that name is adopted, and only in obedience to the in- 

 exorable law of priority. The name of Amblodon is most appropriate and cor- 

 rectly formed, while Aplodinotus is both vague and erroneously compounded. 

 It is not quite certain how the name is derived. Agassiz, in his ' ' Nomina 

 Systematica Generum Piscium " derives it from a;rx<)cc simjale, and ran-cc back; 

 a far more probable derivation is from 'uttkoi;, tJ'of, a simple cloak to fit the body, 

 and vajToc, the back, in allusion to the scaly coating of the base of the 

 second dorsal fin, which Rafinesque considered as the character which chiefly 

 distinguished the genus fiom Scicenn. Had he derived it as Agassiz suggests, 

 he would have undoubtedly written Aplonotus. Accepting the above as the 

 true etymology, the orthography of Haploidonotus is adopted as more correct. 



It is advisable to state that there are three errors in Rafinesque's short 

 diagnosis of ^^Ajdodinotus'^ which need to be corrected. Tliere are seven 

 instead of six branchiostegal rays ; there is a spine in front of the second dorsal 

 fin, as was afterwards mentioned in the description of Amblodon in the Ichthy- 

 ologia Ohiensis ; there is the normal number of ventral rays, and not one 

 spine, and six soft rays. The last error is almost excusable in such an observer 

 as Rafinesque, for the external branch of the first ray is much developed, and 

 resembles somewhat the large simple ray of a pectoral or caudal fin. 



Adopting the name of Haploidonotus for the genus, it is taken as the type of 

 the subfamily, whose characters, as well as those of its two genera, are now 

 given. 



Subfamily Haploidonotin.^ Gill. 



The body is oblong and suboval, highest at the front of the spinous dorsal 

 fin ; the ante-dorsal region convex. 



The head is oblong, with the occipito-nasal profile very oblique, and the 

 snout high and more or less convex. Tlie tapper jaw is longer than the lower. 

 The supramaxillary bones are mostly retractile under the suborbitars, and 

 cease before the vertical of the end of the orbit. The margin of the snout 

 between the preorbital bones has four small oblique incisions. There are five 

 pores beneath the chin. 



The first dorsal fin is longer than high, and commences nearly over the 

 bases of the pectorals ; it is connected with the second by a very low mem- 

 brane. 



[May. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



The anal fin is trapezoidal, higher than long, and under or behind the 

 median rays of the second dorsal. 



The pectoral fins are pointed. The ventral are inserted almost beneath the 

 bases of the pectoral. 



The scales on the body and crown have pectiniform borders ; those on th^i 

 cheeks and opercula are mostly cycloid. 



The lateral line is continued to the end of the caudal fin. 



The inferior pharyngeal bones are triangular, with their basal or posterior 

 margin widest, and provided with a shallow, braced-forraed (,^^^^^) emargi- 

 nation, the posterior processes being short and robust. There is a much tliick- 

 ened triangular area beneath and behind, the apex of which is continued into 

 a median or sutural carina or elevation, whence the bones decrease in thickness 

 to the margin. From the base of each ascending side of the thickened trian- 

 gular area, a strong compressed process proceeds downwards and outwards, 

 and is nearly at a right angle to an inferior ridge, which terminates at the 

 end of the compressed posterior process of the bone. 



There are three upper pharyngeal bones on each side ; the median is broad 

 and of a curvilinear, triangular or subcircular form ; the anterior and posterior 

 narrow. 



Most of the teeth of the inferior and upper pharyngeal bones of the adult 

 are molar, short, and with truncated or slightly excavated crowns. Only 

 those of the external margins are sometimes cylindro-conic. 



The setoese lamiuaj of the ceratohyals of the first pair of branchial arches are 

 very short and compressed ; their internal margins are provided with small 

 acute teeth. The dentiferous lamellae of the remaining branchial arches are 

 small and ridge-like, distant and armed with small recurved acute teeth. 



Pseudobranchise are present. 



The pharyngeal bones of the young are separated, but in the adult they 

 become immoveably united, like those of the Pharyngognathi of Mliller. The 

 teeth of the young also incline toward an obtusely cylindro-conic form, but 

 with advancing age, they become more and more robust and truncated, and in 

 the old, almost the entire surfaces of the lower and median upper pharyngeals 

 are paved with short truncated molars. The teeth of the external margins of 

 the median ujiper pharyngeals generally retain the form which the teutli of 

 the young possessed. 



Genus Haploidonotus (Raf.) 



Aplodinotus Raf., Journal de Physique, de Chemie, et d'Histoire Naturelle, 



vol. Ixxxviii. p. 418. June, 1819. 

 Amblodon Raf., Journal de Physique, de Chemie, et d'Histoire Naturelle, 

 vol. Ixxxviii. p. 421. June, 1819. 

 Lower pharyngeal bones described and erroneously attributed to Catasto- 

 molds : 

 Amblodon Rqf., Ichthyologia Ohiensis, p. 24. 



Corvina sp., Cuvier, Richardson, Kirtland, DeKay, Storer, Giiiither, etc. 

 Amblodon Agassiz, American Journal of Science and Art, ser. ii. vol. xvii. p. 

 307. 

 " sp. Girard, Report of Explorations and Surveys for Pacific Railroad 



route, vol. x. Fishes, p. 95. 

 Body rather elongated or oblong ; the subdorsal outline declines backwards 

 with scarcely a curve. 



Head oblong ; dorso-nasal profile declining with a slight sigmoidal curve ; 

 snout high and truncated. Eyes mostly anterior. Preoperculum minutely 

 crenulated. Chin covered with simple skin. 



Teeth on a villiform band in each jaw; that of the upper preceded by a 

 row of slightly larger ones. 



1861.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Anterior dorsal fin with nine or ten spines. Anal with two spines, the 

 second of which is large. Caudal lanceolated. 



The pharyngeal bones as well as the armature of the branchial arches have 

 been described as characteristic of the subfamily. There is no essential differ- 

 ence between those of the two genera of the group. 



Type Haploidonotus grunniens (Rqf.) 



Syn. Aplodinotus grunniens R^if., Journal de Physique, vol. Ixxxviii. 

 Amblodon grunniens Raf. 

 Sciaena oscula Les. 

 Scisena grisea Les. 

 Corvina oscula Cuv. et Val. 

 Corvina grisea DeKay. 



Genus Pogonias Lacepede. 



Labrus sp. Linn. 



Pogonias Lac^/^de, Hist. Nat., vol. iii. p. 137. 



Pogonathe sp. Lac/p^de, Hist. Nat., vol. v. p. 121. 



Scifena sp. Lncepide, Mitchell, 



Labrus sp. Mitchell. 



Pogonias Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. p. 298. 



Pogonathus Bo7i. 



Body oblong ; subdorsal outline little decurved backwards. 



Head oblong ; dorso-nasal profile nearly regularly curved, or the sigmoidal 

 flexure obsolete. Snout high. Eyes anterior. Preoperculum entire. Chin 

 furnished with many filaments, and each ramus of the lower furnished inter- 

 nally for most of its length with a row of distant ones. 



Teeth in a villiform band in each jaw. 



Anterior dorsal fin with ten spines. Anal with two ; the second large and 

 stout. Caudal subtruncated. 



This genus is very closely related to Haploidonotus, the only essential differ- 

 ential characters being tlie beard filaments of the chin and lower jaw, and per- 

 haps the form of the caudal fin. 



Type Pogonias fasciatus Lac^phde. 



An additional representative of the subfamily of Haploidonotinse may per- 

 haps be found in the Chilotrema fasciatum of Tschudi.* That species has a 

 greater superficial resemblance to the Pogonias JctAciatus than any other fish, 

 but bearing in mind the close resemblance of Haploidonotus to Corvina, we do 

 not even dare to positively assert that it belongs to the same subfamily. 



The following list will exhibit the number of species of the subfamily of 

 Haploidonotinaj of the United States. As has been already remarked, the 

 genus Poi/onias, containing bearded species, with truncated caudal fins, are 

 marine, and found on the Atlantic coast, while the Haploidonoti, without 

 beards, and with lanceolated caudal fins, are found only in the larger fresh 

 water rivers and lakes. 



Genus Haploidonotus (Raf.) 

 Haploidonotus grunniens Raf. 



Aplodinotus grunniens Raf., Journal de Physique, &c., vol. Ixxxviii, p. 

 418. 

 Haploidonotus concinnus Gill. 



Amblodon concinnus Agassiz, American Journal of Science and Art, ser. 

 ii. vol. xvii. p. 307. 



* Tschudi Fauna Peruana. Ichthjologia, p. 13, tab. 1. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Haploidonotus lincatus Gill. 



Amblodon lineatus Agassiz, American Journal of Science and Art, ser. ii. 

 vol. xvii. p. 307. 

 Haploidonotus neglectus Gill. 



Amblodon neglectus Girard, United States and Mexican Boundary Sur- 

 vey. Ichthyology, p. 12, pi. v. figs 6-10. 

 Haploidonotus Ricliardsonii Gill. 



Corvina Ricliardsonii Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. v. p. 100. 

 The last species will be found to be the representative of a distinct genus, 

 but with our present knowledge, it is unadvisable to characterize it. Cuvier 

 and Valenciennes, in the Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, as well as Richard- 

 son in the Fauna Boreali-Americana, have attributed to it seven branchiostegal 

 rays. In the article "Ichthyology, " of the last edition of the Encyclopaedia 

 Britannica, (p. 284,) Sir John Richardson has remarked of the species as fol- 

 lows : " We have, however, some suspicion of its belonging more properly to 

 the Theraponidre than to the Suiaenidffi, notwithstanding Cuvier's weighty 

 authority. It has only six branchiostegals." The former description is pro- 

 bably correct. The species certainly is not allied to the Theraponidce. It dif- 

 fers principally from the true Haploiclonoti by the form of its head, and of the 

 caudal fin. 



The Amblodon saturmis of Girard belongs to the subfamily of Scisenin.'e, and 

 to the genus Ehinoscion Gill. 



Of the marine genus, there are two species. 



Genus Pogonias Lac. 

 Pogonias fasciatus Lac. 

 Pogonias chromis Cuv. 



On the Genus ANISOTREMUS Gill. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



lu the " Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of Nortli Amei'ica,"' 

 the Pristipoma rodo of Cuvier, whicli is a doubtful or accidental visitor to the 

 southern coast of the United States, has been taken as the type of a distinct 

 genus on which the name of Anisotremus has been conferred. The characters 

 of the genus are now given, with descriptions of the type and a newly dis- 

 covered species from the western coast of Central America. 



Anisotremus Gill. 



Anisotremus Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North 



America, p. 32. 

 Sparus sp. Linn, et al. 



Perca sp. Block. i 



Grammistes sp. Block, Schneid. 

 Lutjanus sp. Lac^pdde. 

 Pristipoma sp. Cuv., auct. 



Body rhombo-ovate and much compressed, highest at the anterior part of 

 the first dorsal fin, and thence declining toward the end of the second, gradu- 

 ally under the first, more rapidly under the second. Ante-dorsal region very 

 convex, and profile thence declining very rapidly to the snout. 



Head laterally of a rhomboid form, higher than long, with the profile very 

 oblique and nearly parallel with the obliquely descending border of the oper- 

 culum. Preoperculum behind nearly vertical and finely serrated. Two pores 

 in front of the lower jaw, and a central groove behind. 



1861.] 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Mouth small and terminal. Supramaxillars and ends of maxillars entirely 

 exposed, and invested in very thick attached lips. Lower jaw also with very 

 thick lateral lips separated by a wide isthmus. 



Teeth villiform in each jaw, with a somewhat larger external row. 

 Anterior dorsal behind lower than the second, generally with twelve spines, 

 the third, fourth and fifth of which are longest. Anal tin with three spines, 

 the second of which is very large and compressed. Caudal deeply notched. 

 Pectoral fins acuminate. 



Branchiostegal membrane thick and with the emargination below, not ex- 

 tending much before the angle of the preoperculum ; six branchiostegal rays. 

 The lower pharyngeals when united present above a U-shaped outline, with 

 the limbs slowly diverging. Behind and between the posterior processes is a 

 transverse emargination of a semi-elliptical form. Beneath, there is a V-shaped 

 ridge, whose limbs terminate in the compressed posterior processes of the 

 bones. The bones are thickest at and behind the posterior third, where the 

 limbs of the V-shaped ridge are also swollen. The bones are in close contact 

 to each other. 



The upper pharyngeals are triple on each side ; the median is triangular, 

 with its angles rounded. 



The teeth of the lower pharyngeals have mostly hemispherical summits. The 

 lateral marginal ones are cyliudro-conical, and those at the bases of the pos- 

 terior processes are elongate-conic. 



The teeth of the median upper pharyngeals are also mostly molar, those of 

 the lateral margins and those of the anterior and posterior bones are cylin- 

 dro-conic. 



The sett-B of the cerato-branchials of the first pair of branchial arches are 

 short, compressed, tapering and almost smooth. The inner side of the first, 

 and both sides of the second and third branchial arches with alternating 

 larger and smaller vertical ridges, which are longitudinally grooved below : 

 they are mostly unarmed, but the larger have sometimes one or two teeth at 

 their extremities. The branchial arches of the fourth pair have many little 

 separated dentiferous tubercles on their concave margins ; the teeth are 

 chiefly cylindro-conic. 



The genus now characterized differs from Pristipoma* of which the Pristi- 

 poma hasta of Cuvier or Lutj'anus hasta of Bloch is the type, by its form, smaller 

 mouth, thick lips and pharyngeal bones ; the height is much greater and the 

 profile much more oblique ; the facies is consequently quite dissimilar to that 

 of the Prisiipomi hasta. 



Anisotremus virginicus Gill. 



Guatucupa Juba Marcgrave, Historia Naturalis Brasilije, p. 147. 1648. 



Acara pinima Marcgrave, loc. cit , p. 1,52. 



Sparus virginicus Linn. Systema Naturae, ed. x. (Holmiae.) vol. i. p. 281. 

 1758. 



Sparus vittatus Bloch, Naturgeschichte der Ausliindischen Fische. 



Perca juba Bloch, op. cit. torn. 



Le Rhomboidal JJaubenton and HaUy. Encyclopedie Methodique, tom iii. pp. 

 333, 376. 



Le Rhomboidal (S. Virginicus) Bonnaterre, Tableau Encyclopedique et Me- 

 thodique, Ichthyologie, p. 103. 



Sparus virginicus Linn., Systema Naturae, Gmelin ed., p. 1278. 



Sparus vittatus Artedi, Genera Piscium, Walbaum ed., p. 290. 



Sparus virginicus Ariedi. Genera Piscium, Walbaum ed., p. 297. 



Sparus Jub. Lac£p&de, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. iv. pp. 43, 138. 



Lutjanus virginicus Laciplde, op. cit., tom. iv. pp. 197, 199. 



*Pristipoma Cav. Regne Animal, ed. i. vol. ii. p. 279. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Grammistes Jiiba Block, Systema Ichthyolof^ia?, Schneid. ed. p. 1S4. 



Grammistes mnuritii Block, Systema Ichthyologiifi, Schneid. ed. p. 185. 



Sparus viiginicus Block, Systema Ichtbyologiae, Schneid. ed. p. 274. 



Juba Sparus Shaw, General Zoology, vol. iv. p. 431, 1803. 



Virginian Sparus Shutv, op. cit. vol. iv. p. 436. 



Vitiated Sparus Shaw, op. cit. vol. iv. p. 465. 



Pristipoma rodo Cuv. et Vol., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn v. p. 274. Slorer, 

 Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, p. 76 ; ib. in Memoirs of the 

 American Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. ii. p. 328. Guichenot, in 

 Ramon de la Sayra'.s Histoire de Cuba, Poissons, p. 70. 



Pristipoma virginicum GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &c., p. 238. 



Anisotremus virginicus Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast 

 of North America, p. 32. 



The number and character of the rays is expressed in the following formula : 

 1 1 1 



D. XII. 14— to 16— A. III. 9—. C. 4, 1, 8, 7, 1, 3. P. 2, 14. V. I. 5. 

 1 1 1 



The body is of a steel blue color, which merges into a silvery gray on the 

 abdomen. There are darker spots on the central portions of the scales of the 

 dorsal region, which have a tendency to form oblique purplish lines running be- 

 hind and upwards. There are two vertical bands, the anterior of Avhich is 

 oblique, and runs from the nape to the corner of the mouth, but interrupted at 

 the eye. The second is vertical and proceeds from the front of the dorsal fin 

 to the base of the pectoral. Behind the latter bands, there are about seven 

 broad longitudinal bands of a light yellow color, mo.stof whickare double or branched 

 anteriorly. The sixth and seventh bands are not usually divided in front. The 

 upper branch of the third band is sometimes again subdivided. The first band 

 terminates under the first five soft-branched rays of the dorsal fin ; the second 

 under first part of the second half of the articulated portion of the dorsal; the 

 third extends on the upper ridge of the caudal peduncle and unites with that of the 

 opposite side behind the dorsal ; the fourth runs on the sides of the tail along the 

 scales of (he lateral line; the fifth runs behind above the inferior ridge of the 

 caudal peduncle ; the sixth ends at the terminal portion of the anal fin ; the 

 seventh is very indistinct. The fins are yellowish ; the ventral tinged with 

 purplish. 



This species was first very well described by Linnajus, under the name of 

 Sparus virginicus, and the specific portion of his name has been consequently 

 retained. If, however, it should not be hereafter discovered on any part of 

 the coast of the ancient colony of Virginia, it will be requisite to change the 

 name, and as Bloch's name of Sparus vittatus is next in order of time, that may 

 be adopted, notwithstanding his defective figure and description. They are 

 no worse than those of many other species for which his names have been 

 retained. It will therefore be named Anisotremus vittatus. 



Under the name of Pristipoma virginicum. Dr. Giinther has published a de- 

 scription which is inapplicable to this species. He mentions the presence be- 

 hind the vertical dorso-pectoral band of only " six parallel bluish longitudinal 

 bands." Such a description would be rather more applicable to the Aniso- 

 tremus tceniatus of Panama here described, were the bands margined with pur- 

 plish. But Dr. Giinther has probably had specimens in which the ground 

 color and yellow bands had faded and become merged below, and has mis- 

 taken the ground color on the dorsal and lateral regions for bands. 



Anisotremus t.exiatus Gill. 

 The radial formula is as follows : 

 1 I 



D. XII. 16— . A. III. 9—. C. 4, 1, 8, 7, 1, 3. P. 2, 16. V. I. 5 

 1 1 



1861] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



The first spine of the anal fin is shnped like a compressed pen. 



The body is of a buff or fawn color, inclining to silvery beneath, and with 

 golden lines running along the median line of the scales ; those of the dorsal re- 

 gion run obliquely backwards and upwards. There are two vertical bands, 

 one of which is oblique, and passes from the nape to the angle of the mouth, 

 but interrupted by the eye ; the second is vertical, and extends from the com- 

 mencement of the dorsal fin to the base of the pectoral. There are also be- 

 hind on each side seven longitudinal and nearly parallel silver simple narrow 

 bands bordered on each edge ivith purplish ; the first is immediately under the 

 spinous part of the dorsal from the first to the tenth spinous rays ; the second 

 commences on the fifth row of scales from the back, and ends under the fifth 

 branched ray; the third on the eighth, and extends nearly to the end of the 

 dorsal ; the fourth at the horizon of the superior border of the orbit, and 

 terminates at the base of the caudal, betiveen the lateral line and upper surface of caudal 

 peduncle ; the fifth runs from above the axilla of pectoral to the base of caudal, 

 and near its end immediately under the lateral line ; the sixth from the inferior 

 axilla of pectoral to the end of anal ; the seventh is very indistinct or obsolete. 

 The fins are yellowish ; the ventral tinged with purplish. 



The species above described is very nearly allied to the Anisotremus virgini- 

 cus. It inhabits the western coast of tropical America, and has been noticed 

 under the name of Pristipoma rodo, in the Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, as being one of the few marine animals that are found on 

 both sides of the continent. Although certainly very nearly allied to the 

 species of the eastern waters it appears to be quite distinct. As will be seen 

 by the ct)mparative descriptions of the two species here offered, the color 

 amply distinguishes them. In the species of the Caribbean Sea and neigh- 

 boring waters, there are in front from ten to fourteen longitudinal yellow 

 bands, most of which unite by pairs at a greater or less distan^^e behind, and 

 are reduced to seven. In the_ Anisotremus tce.niatus, there are only seven nar- 

 row silvery bands bordered with purplish. The bands of the respective spe- 

 cies are also quite diflFerently situated. In the Anisotremus virginicus, there are 

 only indistinct oblique purplish lines running along the centres of each row of 

 scales. In the Anisotremus tceniatus the lines are of a golden color, and are 

 present on the sides as well as the dorsal region. 



One specimen of this species is preserved in the Museum of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences. It was obtained by Dr. Ruschenberger at Panama. 



Note. — In the advance sheets of a " Conspectus Piscium Cubensium," recently pub- 

 iished by my learned Iriend and correspondent, M. Poey, the Professor of Comparative 

 Anatomy and Zoology in the Royal University of Havana, the species formerly 

 described by that Gentleman, as Pristipoma sphnia/um and P. Iiilineatum, are referred 

 to this genus, and called Anisotremus splmiatnm and A. trilincatvm. The former 

 species is very closely allied to the Piis!ipoma hiliveatum of ( uvier. I have some 

 doubt whether those species are really congeneric with the A. virginicus, vlw A having 

 never seen them, did not dare to posiiively refer them to it; they are at least very 

 closely related to thera, and may possibly be generically allied. 



Synopsis of the URANOSCOPOIDS. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



There lives in the Mediterranean Sea a fish which has been long known and 

 celebrated for its peculiar form. Its head is cubical ; its eyes situated on the 

 superior surface, so to only enable it to look above, its pupil being equally so 

 directed and not towards the sides, as are those of the Rays*. This fish has 



* Cuv. et Val Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome iii. p. 288. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



received from the ancient Greeks the various names of Ouptvoo-K'jTroi, ''A^-v;? and 

 KuKKJ^vufxo; ; when it was classified in the system by Linnaeus, the name of 

 Uranoscopus was accepted for its generic appellation, and has been retained 

 by all succeeding naturalists. Many species have been since referred to the 

 genus, which, although possessed of a similar form, differ considerably in the 

 details of structure. The peculiarity of form is therefore not a generic charac- 

 ter, but indicative of much higher importance ; it is also coincident with many 

 other well marked characteristics, some of which are of much importance, and 

 the combination of which without much doubt indicates that the group is of 

 family value.* 



All the species with the form of the ancient Uranoscopus discovered until 

 within most recent times, had not only the same general and essential, but 

 almost the same positive form as to its details. They chiefly differed in the 

 comparative degree of armature of the head, the presence or absence of scales, 

 the character of the dorsal fin, and the presence or absence of intralabial fila- 

 ments and mental barbels. The differences were evidently of no more than 

 generic value. 



Bat comparatively, recently, there has been referred to the genus Uranos- 

 copus a fishf which does indeed possess the same general form as the typical 

 species, but differs very materially in the greater elongation of its body, as 

 well as in several other essential characters, which the study of the family 

 convinces us are of much more than generic value. It represents, then, not 

 only a distinct natural genus, but a distinct subfamily ; the latter has been 

 recently named Leptoscopinse ; the genus Leptoscopus.% 



Still more recently, there has been referred to the family of Uranoscopoids, 

 a remarkable fish§ first discovered at the West Indian island of Barbados, 

 which preserves the same general form as Uranoscopus and the same special- 

 ized form as Leptoscopus. Yet this fish is characterized by a feature which 

 may be almost termed anomalous with respect to this family. It has only 

 three ventral rays ! those rays are also simply articulated, and not branched, 

 thus resembling those of the Blennoids. And yet nature, as if to instruct us 

 as to the little value of any single character which is not a modification of a 

 most important organ, has imprinted on this fish, as has been already re- 

 marked, not only the same general but absolutely all the details of form ex- 

 hibited by Leptoscopus. The only other external generic characteristic which 

 distinguish the West Indian fish from the Leptoscopus are the approximation 

 or separation of the ventral fins,|| and the relative position of the dorsal and 

 anal. In both of these respects, the Leptoscopi approach nearer to the Uran- 

 oscopinae than the Leptoscopinse. The dorsal and anal fius are much elon- 

 gated in both of those genera, in contradistinction to those of the Urauosco- 

 pinae ; but the relative elongation is reversed in the two. In Leptoscopus the 

 commencement of the dorsal is posterior to the vertical of that of the anal, 

 while in Dacti/loscopus it is anterior. There are also palatine teeth in Leptos- 

 copus, as in all of the known Uranoscopina:, whilst in the Dactyloscopi, they are 

 absent. But as if to render tlie close affinity of the Leptoscopi and the Dactij- 

 loscopi still more evident, there has been recently discovered, at the Island ol 

 New Zealand, a fish^ whose almost sole difference from Leptoscopus is also the 



*The Uranoscopoids would form one of (he strongest arguments in favor of the Agas- 

 sizian docrine of the value of form as a family character. That form « hich results from 

 the similar relations, combinatior.s and proportions of the most important |)arts, external 

 as well as internal, appears in most case- tn be characteristic of natural families. 



t Uranoscopus macropygus Richardson. 



I Leptoscopus Gill, Giinlher. 

 ? Dactyloscopus Gill. Poey. 



II In this respect the Dactyloscopl resemble the typical Uranoscopoids more than do the 

 Ijeptoscopi. 



\ Crapatalus Giinlher. 



1861.] 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



absence of palatine teeth. When the perfect concordance of Leptoscopus and 

 Dactyloscopus in so many and so most characteristic features is then recalled, 

 can the demonstration of the pertinence of the two genera to the same natural 

 family be rendered more evident ? Yet this peculiar modification of the ven- 

 tral fins is most remarkable in a member of this family ; it is certainly one 

 that the natui-alist would not a priori expect to be found. Dr. Giinther, 

 doubtless influenced by such considerations, has not noticed the Dacty'oscopi 

 in his catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, as a member of his group of 

 Uranoscopina. Having never seen it, he probably, notwithstanding the com- 

 parisons and observations recorded in the original description, considered it 

 to be a Blennoid ; the only character that it possesses in common with that 

 family is the structure of the ventral fins. We again repeat, that not only 

 the preponderance but the totality of its characters, with that sole exception, 

 decides that its legitimate affinities are to the Leptoscopi. But to vindicate 

 our appreciation of the importance of this character in the present family, we 

 have proposed to institute for the genus a distinct subfamily. 



Nor is the peculiar modification of the ventral fins the only character which 

 is generally indicative of family rank, but here of much less value. The 

 Uranoscopiuae have a coecal stomach and a moderate number of pyloric coeca, 

 the number in the species examined ranging from eight to twelve, but in 

 Leptoscopus the coeca are entirely absent. This is undoubtedly a character- 

 istic of as much importance as the peculiarity of the ventral fins. Yet Dr. 

 Giinther has with propriety retained the species as characterized among his 

 Uranoscopina, a group which is equivalent to the family of Uranoscopoids as 

 here admitted after the substraction of the Dactyloscopi. 



It will be observed that I have always compared the Dactyloscopi to the 

 Leptoscopi, and asserted that both belong to the same family. If ever a divi- 

 sion of the Uranoscopoids should be made, or if any forms now referred to it 

 are abstracted, they would properly be the Leptoscopinse and Dactyloscopinse 

 together. Those groups resemble each other in their elongated body covered 

 with moderate scales, their median lateral line, the long dorsal and anal fins, 

 and the smooth head. In all of these respects they differ from the Uranosco- 

 pinae. The latter have also pancreatic coeca, while doubtless all the former 

 have none. The Leptoscopinse and Dactyloscopinse will, therefore, be probably 

 referred by some future naturalist to a distinct family, but I am not myself 

 prepared at present to adopt such, and entertain some doubt whether such a 

 separation would be ever justifiable. In my former remarks on Dactyloscopus 

 I have observed that " had either the peculiarity of dentition or of the ventral 

 fins singly distinguished the Dactyloscopi from the Leptoscopi, both might 

 possibly have been naturally placed in the same tribe or subfamily." I have 

 further remarked, that "notwithstanding the abnormal and blennoid struc- 

 ture of the ventrals, and the absence of the vomerine and palatine teeth, the 

 Dactyloscopince appear to be almost as much related to the Leptoscopince as 

 the latter are to the UranoscopincE , properly so called." Since the not unex- 

 pected discovery of Crapatalus, I will now express my belief in the much greater 

 affinity between the Dactyloscopinse and Leptoscopinse than that of the latter 

 to the Uranoscopinse. The subfamilies are now indeed distinguished by almost 

 only one character, but I still retain them. 



From the preceding observations, it is apparent that there are few groups of 

 such intrinsic interest, as well as of such importance for the proper informa- 

 tion of the value of certain characters. We are taught not to place too great 

 reliance on any one character, as such might cause us to violate the principle 

 of natural classification. The close identity of general form, so characteristic 

 of the entire family, and the combination of characters so numerous and so 

 peculiar, forbid the naturalist from the consideration of any one of the groups 

 leferred to as the representative of different or distinct families, notwithstand- 

 ing the absence of pyloric coeca in one, and the additional modification of the 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ]11 



ventral fins of the others. How numerous are those peculiar features which 

 are possessed by all the members of this family will be evident from the diag- 

 nosis which is now offered. 



Ukanoscopoid;e Gill. 



The body is more or less elongated, conical or subcylindrical, widest and 

 generally highest at the preoperuular region ; thence the dorsal and abdominal 

 outlines regularly converge. The scales are very minute, or of moderate size, 

 and sometimes absent. 



The head is cuboid, little narrower, and nearly vertical in front ; the eyes 

 rather small, anterior and superior ; the median infraorbital bones not con- 

 nected with the preopercular. The nostrils are double. The mouth is verti- 

 cal, the lips fringed. The intermaxillary bones have very short posterior 

 processes, and are in front of the maxillary, extept at the ends of the latter. 



The branchial apertures are very large, and extend before the pelvic bones. 

 The branchiostegal membrane is doubled in front, and forms a transverse flap 

 between the dentary and angular bones, which conceals anteriorly the branchi- 

 ostegals. There are six rays. 



The branchise are biserial on the four branchial arches, and there are also 

 pseudo-branchire. 



The dorsal and anal fins are nearly equal in size, and are always elongated ; 

 the anus is consequently anterior. The caudal is subtruncated. The pecto- 

 rals have oblique bases, and their rays rapidly decrease in length beneath. 

 The ventrals are jugular. 



Head more or less mailed above. Body moderately elongated, Ukanoscopin^. 

 Two dorsal fii.s. 



Body scaly. Head mailed above. An intralabial filament. 



Preopercular spines below, .... 1. Uranoscopus. 



Preopercular spines below. Chin with barbel, 2. Nematagnus. 



Body scaly. Head with a transverse posterior plate, 



whence proceeds a Y-shaped apophysis, . . 3. Upselonphorus. 

 Body naked. Head mailed above, ... 4. Astroscopus. 



Dorsal fin single. 



Body scaly. Head mailed above. 



Dorsal with 3 — 4 spines, . • . . . 5. Ichthyoscopus. 

 Dorsal unarmed. Lower jaw entire, . . 6. Genyagnus. 



Dorsal unarmed. Lower jaw enlarged beneath, 7. Gnathagnus. 



Body naked, ....... 8. Cathetostoma. 



Head covered with naked skin. Body elongated. 



Ventral rays I. 5, ...... Leptoscopin^. 



Vomerine and palatine teeth present, . . 9. Leptoscopus. 

 Vomerine and palatine teeth none, . . . 10. Crapatalus. 

 Ventral rays 3, simply articulated, . . . Dactyloscopin-e. 



Vomerine and palatine teeth absent, . . 11. Dactyloscopus. 



Uranoscopin^ (Bon.) Gill. 



The body is moderately elongated, and covered with very minute scales, or 

 naked. Tlie lateral line runs abruptly upwards to the dorsal region, is con- 

 tinued under the dorsal fin to its end, and thence deflected downwards to the 

 base of the caudal. 



The head is more or Ijss completely covered with bony plates. There are 

 teeth on the vomerine and palatine bones. 



The anus is in the second third of the total length ; the anal fin moderately 

 elongated and with less than twenty rays. The jugular ventrals are approxi- 

 mated, and have each a slender spine and five rapidly increasing branched 

 rays. 



1S31.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



I. Ukanoscopus (Linn.) Gill. 



Trochinus sp. Artedi, Genera Piscium. 



Uranoscopus Linn., Systema Naturae. 



Callionymus sp. Gronovius. 



Head above completely covered with the bony armor. Preoperculum armed 

 beneath with four to six spines. Lower jaw with its inferior margin entire 

 and not abruptly notched ; its internal membranous velum provided witji a 

 filament. Body covered with scales. Two dorsal fins ; the first with three, fo;ir 

 or five short spines. The second corresponding to the anal. 



The genus Uranoscopus is now restricted to those species which resemble 

 the long known Uranoscopus scaher in the form of body, squamation, fins, ar- 

 mature of the head and tlie presence of intralabial barbel. The other species 

 that have been referred to it by naturalists do not appear to be congeneric, 

 but are rather the types of several quite distinct and well marked genera. 

 The genus as now limited still contains nine of the known species. 



1. Uranoscopus scaber Linn. 



Trachinus, sp. 2, Artedi, Genera Piscium, p. 42. 

 Uranoscopus scaber Linn., Systema Naturae, vol. i. p. 434. 

 Callionymus araneus Gronov. 

 Habitat. — Mediteranean Sea. 



2. Uranoscopus marmoratus Cuv. et Val. 



Uranoscopus marmoratus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. 

 p. 304. 

 Habitat. — East Indies. 



3. Uranoscopus affinis Cuv. et Val. 



Uranoscopus affinis Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. dos Poissons, tom. iii. p. 304. 

 Habitat. — Indian Ocean. 



4. Uranoscopus occidentalis Agassiz. 



Uranoscopus occidentalis Agassiz, Selecta Genera et Species Piscium, 

 p. 123, pi. Ixxiii. 

 Habitat. — West Indies. 



5. Uranoscopus guttatus Cuv. et Val. 



Uranoscopus guttatus, Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. 

 p. 305. 

 Habitat. — Indian Ocean. 



6. Uranoscopus bicinctus Temm. et Schlegel. 



Uranoscopus bicinctus Temminch et Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, PisceS", 

 p. 26, pi. 10 B. 

 Habitat. — Chinese and Japanese seas. 



7. Uranoscopus asper Temm. et Schlegel. 



Uranoscopus asper Temminck et Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Pisces, p. 26, 

 pi. ix. fig. 1. 

 Habitat. — Chinese and Japanese seas. 



8. Uranoscopus sulphureus Cuv. et Val. 



Uranoscopus sulj-hureus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. viii. 

 p. 495. 

 Habitat. — Friendly Islands. 



9. Ukanosoopus cognatus Cantor. 



UranoBcopuB cognatus, Cantor, Catalogue of Malayan Fishes, p. 21. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



II. Nematagxcs Gill. 



Uranoscopns sp. Cuv. et T"a/. 



Head atove covered with bony plates. Preoperculum armed beneath with 

 about five spines or less. Lower jaw entire beneath. Chin with a barbel. In- 

 tralabial filament also present. Body covered with scales. Two dorsal fins, 

 ike first of which has four short spines, the second nearly coextensive with 

 the anal. 



This genus is distinguished by the presence of the mental barbel conjoined 

 with the characteristics of the typical Uranoscopi. 



A single species is known ; it is an inhabitant of the Indian Ocean. 

 Nematagsfs filibarbis Gill. 



Uranoscopus filibarbis Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iii. p. 307- 



III. Upseloxphoeus Gill. 



Uranoscopus sp. Cuv. et Val., Giinther. 

 Astroscopiis sp. Gill, Abbott. 



Head above with its crowu only covered with a transverse plate, from the 

 front of which a bifurcated apophysis proceeds and sends a limb to each orbit. 

 The postocular region is consequently covered only with the skin. Cheeks 

 naked. Preoperculum with a small angular and inferior projection, as in As- 

 troscopus. Lower jaw entire beneath. Ko intralabial filament. Body covered 

 with minute scales. Dorsal fins two ; the first with four short spines ; the 

 second opposite the anal. 



Upsdonphorus is readily distinguished from all its relations by the skin- 

 covered postocular regions, separated from each other by the apophysis which 

 proceeds from the middle of the front of the transverse posterior plates. This- 

 apophysis has nearly the form of the Greek letter T. In allusion to this cha- 

 racteristic feature the name has been proposed.* Tlie genus is also distin- 

 guished from Uranoscopus by the absence of an intralabial filament, and by the 

 absence of inferior preopercular spines. The latter characteristics are found 

 in Astroscopus but the head of that genus is mailed above. Two species have 

 been discovered. 

 Upseloxphoeus t-gr.s;cuji Gill. 



Uranoscopus y-grsecum Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 308. 



Astroscopus v-grsecum Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philada", 1860, p. 20. 



Uranoscopus v-grseeum Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &c., vol, ii.'p. 229. 



Habitat. — Caribbean Sea, (Dr. Giinther.) 



Upselonphoeus guttatus Gill. 

 Astroscopus guttatus Abbott, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philada., 1860, p. 365, pi. vii. Gill, Catalogue ,of the Fishes of the 

 Eastern Coast of North America, p. 43. 

 Habitat. — Eastern coast of North America, from New York to Georgia. 



IV. AsTKosGOPCS Brevoort. 



Uranoscopus sp. Cuv. et Val. 



Astroscopus Gill, Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada., p. 



20, Jan. 1860. 

 Agnus Giinther, Catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, vol. ii. p. 229, 1860 — 1. 



Head above nearly completely covered with bony plates. Cheeks naked. 

 Preoperculum with two blunt processes generally radiating from the angle of 

 its anterior limb, one of which is directed downwards and forwards. Lower 



* "r^^wv and <})o/ioc, bearing. 

 1861.] 8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



jaw not uotched beneath. Intralabial filament obsolete. Body naked. Two 

 dorsal fins ; the first with four short spines, the second equal to the anal. 



Astroscopus resembles Upselonphorus in the absence of an intralabial fila- 

 ment, the condition of the preoperculum, and the naked cheeks, but is dis- 

 tinguished from that genus by the complete armature of the superior surface 

 of the head and the almost naked body. 

 Astroscopus anoplus Brevoort. 



Uranoscopus anoplus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. viii. p. 



493. Dehiy, Natural History of New York Fishes, p. 37, pi. xxii. fig. 65. 



Storer, Synopsis of the Fishes of North America, p. 46 ; ib. in Memoirs of 



the American Academy, vol. ii. p. 298. 



Astroscopus anoplus Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 



of Philadelphia, 1860, p. 20. 

 Agnus anoplus Gilnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 



vol. ii. p. 229. 

 Astroscopus anoplus Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern coast of 

 North America, p. 43. 



V. Cathetostoma Giinther. 



Kathetostoma Giinther, Catalogue of Acanthopterycian Fishes, &c., vol. ii. p. 



231. 

 Uranoscopus sp. Cuv. et Val. 



Head nearly square above, and covered with bony plates. Cheeks naked. 

 Preoperculum armed at its inferior margin with several spines. Lower jaw 

 not notched beneath. Intralabial filament obsolete. Body without scales. 

 Dorsal fin single, and commencing over the second half of the pectorals fins, 

 with no strong spines. 



This genus is readily distinguished by the naked body and single short and 

 unarmed dorsal fin. The lateral line also ascends less rapidly on the dorsal 

 region, and runs farther from the base of the dorsal fin than in the other 

 members of the subfamily of Uranoscopinse, except Gnathagnus. 



Only one species is known. 

 Cathetostoma l^ve Giinther. 



Uranoscopus Ijevis Block, Systema Ichthyologise Schneld. ed., p. 47, tab. viii. 



Ichthyoscopus Isvis Swainson, Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians and 

 Reptiles, vol. ii. p. 269. 



Kathetostoma Iseve Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 

 vol. ii. p. 231. 



Habitat. — Australian seas. 



VI. Ichthyoscopus Swainson. 



Ichthyoscopus sp. Swainson, Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians and Rep- 

 tiles, p. 269, 1839. 



Anema sp. Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii. 

 p. 230, 1859—60. 



Uranoscopus sp. Cuv. et Val, 

 Head above completely mailed. Cheeks naked. Preoperculum unarmed. 



Lower jaw entire beneath. Intralabial filament obsolete. Body covered with 



minute scales. Dorsal fin single and opposite the anal, but armed in front 



with three or four gradually increasing spines. 



Ichthyoscopus, as now restricted, contains only species with a scaly body, 



provided with a single dorsal fin, whose first rays are spinous. There are 



neither intralabial filaments nor mental barbels. 



Ichthyoscopus Le Beckii Gill. 



Uranoscopus Le Beck Block, Systema Ichthyologise, Schneid. ed., p. 47. 

 Uranoscopus inermis Cuv. et Vol., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 310, 

 pi. 65. 



[May, 



1 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Ichthyoscopus inermis Swainson, Nat. Hist, of Fishes, Ampliibians and Rep- 

 tiles, vol. ii. p. 269. 



Anema inermis Gunther, Catalogue of the Acantliopterygian Fishes, &c., 

 vol.^ ii. p. 230. 



Habitat. — East Indian seas. 



VII. Gesyagnus Gill. 



Uranoscopus sp. Cuv. et Vcel. 

 Anema sp. Gunther. 



Head cuboid with its superior surface covered with osseous plates. Pre- 

 operculum unarmed ; both the preoperculum and operculum are covered with 

 the skin. Lower jaw entire beneath. Chin with a barbel ; no intralabial fila- 

 ment. Body covered with extremely minute scales. Dorsal fin long and 

 single, with no spines in front. 



The present genus is distinguished among its allies by the form and arma- 

 ture of the head, the presence of a mental barbel and absence of an intralabial 

 cirrhus, and the condition of the dorsal fin. A single species is known as a 

 native of New Zealand. 

 Genyagnus monoptertgius Gill. 



Uranoscopus monoptervgius Bloch, Schneid., Systema Ichthyologia, Schneid, 

 ed., p. 49. 



Uranoscopus cirrhosus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iii. p. 314. 



Uranoscopus Forsteri, Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, vol. iii. p. 318. 



Uranoscopus kouripouia Lesson, Voyage de la Coquille, Poissons, pi. xviii. 



Ichthyoscopus cirrhosus ) Swainson, Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians 



Ichthyoscopus Forsteri ) and Reptiles, vol. ii. p. 269. 



Uranoscopus maculatns {Sol. MSS.) Richardson, Voyage of the Erebus and 

 Terror, p. 54, pi, xxxiii. figs 1 — 3. 



Anema mouopterygium Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &c., vol. ii. p. 230. 



VIII. Gnathagnus Gill. 

 Uranoscopus sp. auct. 



Head with the osseous compartments of its superior surface mostly separated 

 by smooth intervals. Preoperculum not armed with spines beneath ; with 

 about three osseous branches radiating behind and upwards from near its 

 angle. Operculum extended backwards. Lower jaw with a short plectroid, en- 

 largement, directed forwards, preceded in front by an emargination. Intrala- 

 bial filament and mental barbel absent. Body covered with very small scales. 

 Dorsal fin without spines, shorter than usual, and nearly coterminal with the 

 anal, which is of ordinary size. The lateral line is quite distant from the 

 dorsal fin. 



Gnathagnus is one of the most decidedly distinct of any of the genera of 

 UranoscopinjE. It is especially distinguished by its more slender body, the 

 armature of the head, the peculiar short sabre-like dilations of the lower jaw, 

 the great development of the operculum, and the condition of the dorsal fin. 

 Gnathagnus elongatus Gill. 



Uranoscopus elongatus, Temminclc et Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Pisces, p. 28, 

 pi. ix. fig 2. 



Anema elongatum Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 

 vol. ii. p. 230. 



Habitat. — Japan. 



Leptoscopin^ Gill. 



Leptoscopinae Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada., 

 1859, p. 133. 

 The body is elongated and covered with moderate or rather small scales 



1861.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The lateral is only arched before, and for most of its course is straight and 

 nearly central between the dorsal and abdominal outlines. 



The head is cuboid, and covered with the naked and smooth skin. 



'J'he anus is situated far forwards. The anal fin commences close behind 

 and is very long, having about thirty or more rays. The ventral fins are jugu- 

 lar, and each has a spine and five branched rays. 



I. Leptoscopus Gill. 



Leptoscopus Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, 1859, 133. Gilnther, Catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 

 vol. ii. p. 231. 

 Uranoscopus sp. Richaidsoii. 



Head above little longer than wide. Preoperculum not armed. Operculum 

 fringed behind. Lower jaw entire beneath. No intralabial filament nor mental 

 barbel. Villiform teeth present on the vomerine and palatine bones, as well 

 as on the jaws. Branchial apertures only partially open above. Scales of the 

 lateral line largest. Dorsal fin with no spines, commencing behind the vertical 

 of the anus. 



A single species of this genus has been discovered in the Australian seas, at 

 Port Jackson. 

 Leptoscopus machopygus Gill. 



Uranoscopus macropygus Richardson, Voyage of the Erebus and Terror, 



Fishes, p. 55, pi. 33, figs. 4, 5, G. 

 Leptoscopus macropygus Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philada., 1859, p. 133. 



II. Crapatalus Giinther. 



Crapatalus Gilnther, Annals and Magazine of Natural History, ser. iii. vol. vii. 

 p. 8e, Feb. 1861. 



Head above little longer than wide. Preoperculum unarmed. Margin of 

 the operculum fringed. Lower jaw entire. No intralabial filament nor mental 

 barbel. Villiform teeth present only on the jaws ; palate smooth. Branchial 

 apertures partially open above. The dorsal fin has no spines, and commences 

 •behind the vertical of the anus. 



This very interesting genus has been recently made known by Dr. Giin- 

 ther, by whom it was described in the " Annals and Magazine of Natural His- 

 tory." It afi'ords additional evidence, if any more was needed, of the pro- 

 priety of the approximation of the genus Dactyloscopiis to the Leptoscopinae. 

 Although the only distinctive character of great value which now distinguishes 

 the latter group is the condition of the ventral fins, I still regard it as repre- 

 -senting a distinct subfamily. The modification of the ventral fins is of greater 

 value in the family of Uranoscopoids than the dentition. As we might expect 

 to find a variation in the latter character, on account of the known aflSnities 

 of the family, so have we not been totally unprepared to discover the anoma- 

 lous and blennoid structure of the ventral fins of Dactijloscopus. That genus, 

 as I had at first supposed, would not improbably be regarded as a Blennoid, 

 but the reference of the genus to that family, simply on account of the presence 

 of only three articulated and unbranched ventral rays, would violate all 

 natural afiiuities. 

 ('kapatalus Nov^ffl ZELANDiiE Giiuthor. 



Crapatalus Novse Zelaudiae, Giinther, Annals and Magazine of Natural His- 

 tory, ser. iii. vol. vii. p. 86, pi. x, fig. A. 



Habitat. — New Zealand. 



Dactyloscopin.e Gill. 



Dactyloscopinse Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Science of Phila- 

 delphia, 1859, p. 133, 



[May, 



i 



i 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 117 



The body is _elongated and covered with moderate or rather small scales. 

 The lateral line is arched only in front, and for most of its length, course 

 nearly at equal distances from the dorsal and abdominal surfaces. 



The head is cuboid, and covered with the smooth and naked skin. 



The anus is placed far forward. The anal fin commences close behind, 

 and is very long, having nearly thirty or more rays. The ventral fins are 

 jugular, and each composed of about three simply articulated and unbranched 

 rays. 



Dactyloscopus Gill. 

 Dactyloscopus Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, 1859, p. 132. 



Head above longer than wide. Preoperculum unarmed. Posterior margin 

 of the operculum fringed. Operculum, suboperculum and interoperculum 

 with membranous extended borders. Lower jaw entire. No intralabial fila- 

 ment nor mental barbal. Villiform teeth only on the jaws. Dorsal fin un- 

 armed. 



It may not be deemed unnecessary to add that the family characters above 

 given apply entirely to this genus, and that the branchial apertures are 

 equally widely extended, that the branchiostegal membrane is doubled in 

 front, and that the lips are fringed as in the other members of the family. In 

 all of those characters it difi'ers much from any of the Blennoids. 



The genus Dactyloscopus was originally established on a species found at 

 Barbados. Mr. Poey, the learned Professor in the University at Havana, has, 

 in his correspondence, informed me that he has obtained two species in Cuba, 

 at least one of which appears to be new. Another species has been discovered 

 by Mr. Xantus, at Cape St. Lucas, and the specimens are preserved in the 

 Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. They will be described on a futurt- 

 occasion. 



Dactyloscopus tkidigitatus Gill. 



Dactyloscopus tridigitatus Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia, 1859, p. 132. 

 Habitat. — Caribbean Sea. 



Descriptions of forty-nine New Species of the Genus MELANIA. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



During the past and present years, I have read several papers describing 

 new species of Unionidce and Melanidce, kindly sent to me by E. R. Showalter, 

 M. D., of Uniontown, Alabama, a Correspondent of our Academy, who has 

 been unremitting in his exertions to make known the natural history of that 

 part of the State. In these papers there were few species of the genus Melania. 

 They were purposely delayed with a view to bring them as much together as 

 possible ; and the present paper will exhibit the vast expansion there of Zoolo- 

 gical life in this single genus, the Coosa River really appearing to be the 

 Zoological centre of this particular group. 



The great variety of form, color and size will at once strike the Naturalist, 

 and he will be surprised in the examination of these forms to observe how few 

 there are of tuberculate or plicate species, which so well characterise the 

 members of the same family, in the streams which form the Tennessee and 

 Cumberland rivers at no great distance. 



Melania Hartmaxiana. — Testa laevi, conica, magna, vel tcnebroso-cornea vel 

 tenebroso-oliva, valde vittata, imperforate ; spira obtuse conica ; suturis valde 

 impressis ; anfractibus subplanulatis, instar septenis, ultimo grandi ; apertura 

 grandi, ovato-rhomboidea, intus brunneo-vittata, ad basim obtuse angulata : 

 labro acuto ; columella incurvata. 



Ilab. — Coosa and Cahawba Rivers, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



1861.] 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Melania Lewisii. — Tests, striata, subcylindraceS, tenebroso-virente, valde 

 vittatix; spira subelevata, conoidea ; suturis vald^ impressis ; anfractibus 

 planulatis, sulcatis, instar senis ; apertura ijarviuscula, ovato-rhomboidea, 

 intus valde vittata, ad basim obtuse angulatit ; labro acuto ; columella albii et 

 incurvatd. 



Hab. — Coosa and Talapoosa Rivers, Alabama. E. R. Showalter. M. L). 



Melania elliptica. — Testa Isevi, elliptica, luteola, quadrivittata. ; spira 

 brevi, obtusil, ad apicem plicata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus senis, sub- 

 convexis ; apertura subgrandi, elongato-elliptica, intus quadrivittata, ad 

 basim obtuse angulata ; labro acuto ; columella albida et incurvata. 



jjab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. and E. Foreman, M. D. 



Melania rubicdnua. — Testa valde striata, rubida, subfusiformi ; spirS, sub- 

 elevata, conoidea; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, convexiusculis ; 

 apertura subconstricta, elongato-elliptica, intus rubida, ad basim obtuso-an- 

 gulata ; labro acuto ; columella incrassata, rubida, incurvata. 



//a6. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania vesicula. — Testd Isevi, elliptica, luteu, immaculata, subtenui ; spirA 

 brevissima, obtusa ; suturis subimpressis ; anfractibus ternis, subconvexis : 

 apertur^ grandi, regulariter ovata, intus dilute-salmonia ; labro acuto ; coinm- 

 ell4 incrassatiX, incurvata, ad basim rotundata. 



I[ab. — Alabama. E, R. Showalter, M. D. 



crassa; 



convexius<^uiio, >3i.ivi..i,iu , ^..^^^^^^^^ ^^^^„^^^^.., — ^^ — ^»^.^, , .„ — _, 



et quadrivittata ; labro acuto, subcrenulato ; columella paulisper incrassata, 

 incurvata, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



jjab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania graciliok. — Testa striata, fusiformi, viridi-lutescente, subcrassA : 

 spira subelevata, conica ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus septenis, 

 vix convexis ; apertura subconstricta, elongato-elliptica, intus albida; labro 

 acuto ; columella albidS,, interne paulisper recurva, ad basim subrotundata. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania propria. — Testa lajvi, fusiformi, luteo-oliva, quadrivittata, sub- 

 crassa ; spira obtuso-conoidea ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus senis, convex- 

 iusculis ; apertura subgrandi, elongato-ellipticix, intus albidS, et vittata ; labro 

 acuto ; columella inflecta, alba, ad basim subangulata. 



Jlab. — Alabama. E. .R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania nubila. — Testa striata, subelliptica, obtuse conoidea, tenebroso- 

 virente, obscure maculata vel late vittata, subcrassa; spira obtuse elevata: 

 suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus senis, subinflatis, ultimo grandi: 

 apertura subgrandi, rhomboido-elliptica, intus quadrivittata ; labro acuto ; 

 columella arcuata, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Wetumpka, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania okbicula. — Testa striata, globos4, subcrassa, luteo-virente, quadri- 

 vittata ; spira brevi, obtusil ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus quinig, 

 valde inflatis, ultimo grandi ; apertura grandi, elliptica, intus quadrivittati ; 

 labro acuto; columella alba, incurvata, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania calculoides. — Test^ striata, subglobosa, crassa, corned, robustA : 

 mpirS conici, valde obtus^ ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus senis, valde infla- 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill) 



tis, Ultimo grandi ; apertura. subgraudi, elongato-elliptica, intus albida ; labro 

 acuto ; columella albida, incrassata, arcuata, ad basim retusa. 

 Hah. — Coosa River. Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Mklania punicea. — Testa Isevi, subcylindracea, crassa, punice^ ; spini eie- 

 vatA, conica ; suturis impressis; anfractibus convexiusculis ; apertura parva, 

 rotundo-ovata, intus alba ; labro acuto ; columella incrassata, alba, ad basim 

 rotundatS,. 



Jfab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Mei.ania luteola. — Testa laevi, subelliptica, subtenui, pallido-lutea ; spira 

 subelevata, conoidcfi ; suturis paulisper impressis ; anfractibus planiusculis ; 

 apertura, subgrandi, intus albida ; labro acuto ; columella albida, incurvfl : ad 

 basim obtuso-angulatit. 



Hal). — Alabama River. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Mklania fascinans. — Testa lajvi, subfusiformi, crassiuscula, luteo-cornea, 

 nitida ; spira elevato-conica ; suturis impressis; anfractibus convexiusculis; 

 apertura subgrandi, intus alba, trivittata; labro acuto; columella alba, ad 

 basim retusa. 



//„/;._Yellowleaf Creek, Shelby County, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. !>. 



Melania quadrivittata, — Testa laevi, subelliptica, crassiuscula, viridi-lutea, 

 nitida ; spirsl obtuse conoidea ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus octonis, 

 convexiusculis ; apertura subconstricta, rhombo-ovata, intus albidil, quadri- 

 vittata; labro acuto ; columella incurva. ad basim angulata. 



Hah. — Coosa River, Alabamia. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Mklania midas. — Testa laevi, cylindraceo-elliptica, crassiuscula, virenle. 

 obsolete vittata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfi'actibus compressiusculis. 

 ultimo pergrandi, inferne obsolete striata; apertura grandi, auriculaeformis, 

 intus cseruleo-alba ; labro acuto ; columella caeruleo-alba, incrassata, inflecta, 

 ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Hah. — Coosa and Alabama Rivers, near Wetumpka. E. R. Showalter, M. 1). 



Melania variata. — Testa laevi, subfusiformi, obtuso-conica, crassiuscula, 

 ve! luteolil vel purpurescente ; suturis irregulariter impressis j anfractibus 

 .■?enis, superne planiusculis, ultimo inflato ; apertura grandi, intus vel luteola 

 vei purpurescente ; labro acuto ; columella arcuata, inspissata, ad basim obtuse 

 angulata. 



Ilab. — Coosa River, at Wetumpka and Montevallo, Bibb County, Alabama. 

 E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania virgulata. — Testa Isvi, fusiformi, conicri, crassiuscula, nitida, mu- 

 cronata, luteola, quadrivittata ; suturis subimpressis ; anfractibus septenis, 

 superne constricta, xiltimo bulboso ; apertura subgrandi, subelliptica, intus 

 luteo-alba et valde vittata; labro acuto ; columella inflecta, ad basim angu- 

 lata et canaliculata. 



IJah. — Coosa and Tallapoosa Rivers, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Mklania MncRONATA. — Testa laevi, acuto-conoidea, tenui, diaphana, stramineo- 

 lutea; spirS, exerta, mucronata; suturis leviter impressis ; anfractibus senis, 

 superne planulatis : apertura parviuscula, ovato-rhomboidea, intus luteo- 

 albida ; labro acuto, sinuato ; columella ad basim paulisper incrassata. sub- 

 effusa et subrecurva. 



Ilab. — Big Prairie Creek, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, IL D. 



Melania propinqua. — Testa Isevi, subcylindracea, subcrassa, luteola, quadri- 

 vittata ; spird subelevata, conoidea : suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus 



1861.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



senis, superne planiiisciilis ; apertura elliptica, parviusculix, intiis albida et. 

 vittata; labro acuto ; columella paulisper incrassatit, inferne rotundatsi. 

 Hab., — Coosa and Cahawba Rivers, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Mblania. suavis. — Testa ItBvi, subfusiformi, subcrassa, luteo-viridi, politil, 

 quadrivittata ; spira obtuso-conica ; sutiiris regulariter impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus senis, superne planiusculis ; apertura subgrandi, elliptica, intus albida. ct 

 vittata ; labro acuto ; columella incurva, ad basim rotuudata. 



Hah. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania. pallax — Testa Iffivi, pupseformi, obtuso-conoidea, subcrassa, vel 

 tenebroso-fusca vel tenebroso-cornea, obsolete vittata vel evittat^ ; suturis 

 impressis ; anfractibus septenis, convexiusculis, ultimo parvo ; apertura parva, 

 valde constricta, elongato-elliptica ; labro acuto ; columella paulisper inflecta, 

 ad basim obtuse angulata. _ 



IJah. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Shovralter, M. D. 



Mblania clausa. — Testa Isevi, pupeeformi, obtuso-conica, crassa, oliva, vit- 

 tata vel evittata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus septenis, convexiusculis ; 

 apertura parva, constricta, elliptica, intus albida ; labro acuto ; columella 

 paulisper inflecta, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



J[ab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania PURPUREA. — Testa Isevi, subfusiformi, obtuso-conica, subtenui, tene- 

 broso-rufa ; suturis paulisper impressis : anfractibus quinis, ultimo grandi ;' 

 apertura subgrandi, elliptica, intus tenebrosa ; labro acuto ; columella tene- 

 hrosa, inflecta. 



Hab, — Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania melle.a. — Testa hcvi, subfusiformi, conica, crassiuscula, mellea, 

 aliquando vittata ; suturis irregularitcr impressis : anfractibus septenis, 

 superne planulatis, ultimo grandi, inflato ; apertura grandi, rhomboido-ellip- 

 tica, intus luteola ; labro acuto ; columella incrassata, inflecta, inferne obtuse 

 angulata. 



Hah. — Coosa River, at Wetumpka, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania varians. — Testa Isevi, vel plicata vel striata, elevato-conica, sub- 

 crassa, luteola vel dilute fusca, vittata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus septe- 

 nis, superne planiusculis ; apertura parviuscula, elliptica, intus albida et vittata; 

 labro acuto ; columella albida, incurvata, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



jjab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania Showalterii-. — Testa Isevi, elevato-conica, subcrassa, luteo-fuscA, 

 quadrivittata, suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, superne planulatis, 

 inferne subinflatis, ultimo subgrandi ; apertura subgrandi, ovato-rhomboidea, 

 intus albida et vittata ; labro acuto et paulisper sinuate ; columella alba, in- 

 flecta, superne paulisper incrassata, ad basim subrotundata. 



Hub. — Coosa and Cahawba Rivers, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania glandaria. — Testa lavi, obtuso-elliptica, crassa, viridi-lutea, quad- 

 rivittata ; suturis valde et irregularitcr impressis ; anfractibus septenis, con- 

 vexiusculis, ultimo graudj ; apertura elongato-elliptica, subconstricta, intus 

 alba et valde vittata; labro acuto, subsinuoso ; columella arcuata, superne et 

 inferne incrassata, paulisper canaliculata et contorta. 



Jlah. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania pudica. — Testa laevi, conoidea, crassiuscula, olivacea vel rufuscula; 

 suturis irregularitcr impressis ; anfractibus senis, convexiusculis ; apertura 

 parviuscula, ovata, intus cffiruleo-albii ; labro acuto ; columella inflecta, su- 

 perne incrassatil, ad basim rotundata. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ]21 



JIab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania Shelbyensis. — Testa Isevi, subelliptica, subcrassa, olivacea, vittatA 

 vel evittata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus superne planulatis ; aperturfi par- 

 viuscula, subovata, intus alba ; labro acuto ; columella, inflecta, ad basim 

 obtuse angulata. 



Hab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania Alabamensis. — Testa laevi, pupaeformi, subelevata, subcrassa, 

 luteola, quadrivittata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus instar septenis, 

 conrexis ; apertura parva, subconstricta, subelliptica, intus albida et vittata ; 

 labro acuto ; columella inflecta, albida, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania rara. — Testa laevi, elevato-conoidea, scalariformi, subcrassa, tene- 

 broso-oliva, nitida ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus octonis, planu- 

 latis, superne angulatis ; apertura jjarviuscula, elliptica, intus tenebroso-pur- 

 purea ; labro acuto ; columella incurva, purpurea, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Hab.— GooBa. River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania bullula. — Testa laevi, conoided, inflata, subtenui, viridi-lutea, 

 quadrivittata, suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar quinis, inflatis, ultimo sub- 

 grandi ; apertura subgrandi, late ovata, intus albida et vittata ; labro acuto ; 

 columella albidsi, superne incrassata, sinuosa, inferne subangulatil. 



Opcrailum elliptical, spiral, dark brown, Avith polar point near the base. 



Hab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Shelby County, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania straminea. — Testa laevi, regulariter elliptica, obtuse conoidea, 

 erassiuscula, straminea ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quinis, ultimo per- 

 grandi et subinflata ; apertur^ grandi, elongato-elliptica, intus luteo-albida ; 

 labro acuto ; columella arcuata, superne paulisper callosa, ad basim obtuse 

 angulata. 



Operculum ovate, spiral, light brown, with the polar point near the edge 

 towards the base. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania solidula. — Testa laevi, subfusiformi, obtuse conica, crassiusculS, 

 luteo-viridi vel luteo-fusca, vittata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quinis, su- 

 perne planulatis, inferne rotundatis, ultimo grandi; apertura subgrandi, ovata, 

 intus albida ; labro acuto ; columella arcuata, superne paulisper callosa, ad 

 basim obtuse angulata. 



Hab. — Yellowleaf Creek, near its junction with Coosa River, Alabama. 

 E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania Cahawbensis. — Testa laevi, subfusiformi, elevato-conica, mucronata, 

 subtenui, tenebroso-cornea, obsolete vittata; suturis linearibus ; anfractibus 

 octonis, superne planulatis, ultimo subgrandi ; apertura parviuscula, ovata, 

 intus albida vel luteola; labro acuto; columella arcuata, ad basim subro- 

 tunda. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania culta. — Testa rugoso-striata, obtuso-conoidea, inflatri, subcrassa, 

 viridi-lutea, nitida, trivittata ; suturis valde et irregulariter impressis ; an- 

 fractibus septenis, superne carinatis ; apertura ampla, subrhomboidea, intus 

 albida et vittata; labro acuto; columella incurva, dilute rosea, inferne angu- 

 lata. 



^a6.— Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania lita. — Testa rugoso-striata, pupaeformi, conoidea, eubcrasstt, quad- 

 rivittata, variegata, nitida; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus senis, 



1861.] 9 




122' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



superne convexis, ultimo elongato ; apertura subconstricta, elougato-ovata , 

 intus purpurescente et vittata ; labro acuto, spissato ; columella iaferne incur- 

 vata, purpurea, ad basim rotundata. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania copiosa. — Testit striata, late elliptica, ventricosa, obtuso-conica, 

 crassiuscula, luteo-cornea, obsolete vittata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; 

 anfractibus quinis, convexiusculis, ultimo pergrandi ; apertura copiosa, late 

 elliptici'i, intus albida ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella arcuata, superne pau- 

 lisper incrassatfi., ad basim subrotunda. 



j{ab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania pergrata. — Testa striata, subcylindracea, obtuse conica, crassius- 

 cula, viridi-corneii, suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus senis, superne hu- 

 merosis, striis transversis crebre indutis, ultimo pergrandi et cylindraceo ; 

 apertura grandi, elongato-ovatii, intus albida ; labro acuto ; columella arcuatS, 

 superne paulisper callosa, ad basim subrotundata. 



Operculum, ovate, spiral, dark brown, with the polar point on the edge 

 near to the base. 



jjab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania bellula. — Testa striata, subelliptica, obtuse conoidea, crassiuscula, 

 luteo-cornea, quadrivittata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus instar quinis, 

 convexiusculis, ultimo grandi ; apertura subgrandi, elliptica, intus albidii et 

 vittata ; labro acuto ; columella alba, inflecta, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Operculum elliptical, spiral, dark brown, with the polar point near the 

 inner edge, about one-fourth from the base. 



JJab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Shelby County, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania jEqua. — TestA substriata, conica, subcrassa,tenebroso-fusca, suturis 

 impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, superne planulatis ; apertunl, parva, rhom- 

 boidea intus albida ; labro acuto ; columella inflecta, paulisper incrassat&, ad 

 basim obtuse angulata. 



jya6.— Yellowleaf Creek, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania capillaris. — Testd crebre striata, anguste elliptica, crassiuscula, 

 luteo-fusca, striis transversis capillaris crebressime indutis ; suturis irregulari- 

 ter impressis ; anfractibus subcompressis, ultimo grandi ; apertura grandi, 

 elono"ato-elliptica, intus striis capillaris ; labro crenulato ; columella albidft, 

 incrassata, incurva, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Operculum ovate, spiral, dark brown, with polar point near the inner side 

 and near to the base. 



2£ab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. and Wm. Spillman, 

 M. D. 



Melania gratiosa. — Testa tuberculata, aliquando striata, obtuso-fusiformi, 

 crassiuscula, luteo-viridi, vel vittata vel evittata ; suturis impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus senis, superne planulatis, ultimo grandi ; apertura subgrandi, subrhom- 

 boidcil, intus albida ; labro acuto, subsinuoso ; columella inflecta, incrassata, 

 ad basim subangulata. 



Operculum ovate, spiral, dark brown, with the polar point near the base. 



jiab. — Coosa River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



JJab. — Cahawba River, Alabama. 



Melania blanda. — Testa plicata, obtuse fusiformi, superne obtuse conica, 

 .subtenui, tenebroso-cornea ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quinis, superne 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 123 



planulatis, ultimo grandi et subangulato ; apertura subgrandi, elliptica, intus 

 luteo-alba ; labro acuto ; columella iacrassata, iuflecta, inferne subaugulata. 

 Hab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania crepera. — Testa substriata, conica, subcrassa, fuliginosa, ; spira. 

 subelevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus seals, couvexiuseulis; 

 apertura ovato-rhombica, intus albida ; labro acuoo ; columella iuflecta, 

 superue paulisper iucrassata, ad basim obtuse angulata. 



Hab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Shelby County, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania fumea. — Testa laevi, conica, subtenui, fumea, subnitida, aliquando 

 obsolete vittata ; spira subelevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus superne planulatis, inferne subinliatis ; apertura ovato-rhombica, intus 

 albida ; labro acuto ; columella inflecta, superne paulisper iucrassata, ad 

 basim subrotunda. 



Hab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Shelby County, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Melania propria. — Testa laevi, elongato-elliptica, subtenui, luteo-coruea, 

 obsolete vittata, nitida ; spira elevata, ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus 

 instar senis, superne couvexiuseulis, inferne inflatis ; apertura subgrandi, 

 ovata, intus luteo-alba ; labro acuto ; columella inflecta, superne incrassata, 

 ad basim rotundata. 



Hab. — Yellowleaf Creek, Shelby Count}', Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



The resignation of Dr. C. J. Cleburne, U. S. N., as a member of the 

 Committee on Conchology, on account of absence on official duty, was 

 read and accepted. 



Permission having been obtained, Mr. Cope presented, on behalf of Mr. H. 

 C. Wood, Jr., a large specimen (length 40 iu.) of the iguana of Andros Island, 

 one of the B.ihamas. The animal had been mentioned by Catesby in his history 

 of Carolina and the Bahamas, but had not apparently been noticed by any sub- 

 sequent naturalist. The species was congeneric with, and allied to Cyclura 

 lophoma 6^>sse, of Jamaica, but the crest was very low, and extensively in- 

 terrupted over the shoulder and loins. The head plates differed from 

 those of the Cuban species, C. n u b 11 a and MacLeayi. The color of the 

 animal was black, with yellowish reticulations. The mastoid and gulo-rictal 

 tubercles, dorsal crest, caudal whorls, middle of the abdomen, and antibra- 

 chium, were pink. The head and jaws light pinkish brown. Mr. Cope stated 

 that a further account would shortly be given of the animal, under the name 

 of Cyclura baeolopha. The Academy Mnseum possesses, also, a fine in- 

 dividual of C. pectinata Wtej. from Honduras, presented by Dr. J. L. 

 LeConte. 



Mr. Cope presented a specimen of Amblystoma Jeffersonianum Baird^ 

 found near Thorndale, Chester Co., Pa. The species was very rare, having to 

 the speaker's knowledge been previously only found in Western Pennsylvania 

 and near Philadelphia. Dr. Hallowell was in error in regarding this species as 

 identical with the i n g e n s of Green, hence the mistake which the speaker 

 had formerly fallen into,* of quoting Tschudi's Xiphonura as applicable to tlae 

 same type as Gray's Heterotriton. 



Another specimen of an Amblystoma on the table, from Ohio, Mr. Cope ob- 

 served had been regarded f as belonging to the Sal. porphyriticaof Green. 

 Prof. Baird having shown that that species is the S. salmoneaof Storer, or 

 Pseudotriton salmoneus Baird, he would call the Ohio species Amblys- 

 toma microstomum. 



1861.] 



* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil 1859, p. 1^3. t Op. cit. 1856, p. 8. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Or 



Of twelve species of Salamanders which were known to inliahit Chester Co., 

 Pa., the following had been seen but once in the course of six years' search. 

 Spelerpes longicandus, Plethodon gliit i nos us, Amblystoma pnncta- 

 tum, A. conspersum and A. Jeffersonianum. Hemldactylium 

 scutatum had been seen only twice, in two distant localities, both upon 

 the same day. 



June ^ih. 

 Mr. Lea, President; in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of new species of Cjrena, Corbicula and Sphserium, 

 by Temple Prime." 



" Descriptions of new Palasozoic Fossils from Illinois and Iowa, by F. 

 B. Meek and A. H. Worthen." 



" Descriptions of new fossil Mollnsca from the Cretaceous formation 

 at Haddonfield, N. J., by Isaac Lea." 



And were referred to Committees. 



Mr. Gabb remarked, that a few days ago he had discovered an outcrop of 

 the " Ripley Group " at the point where the West Jersey Railroad crosses Big 

 Timber Creek, between Gloucester and Eed Bank. The deposit forms the 

 subsoil of the meadows, and appears to have been exposed in digging the 

 elitches. It contains the usual characteristic fossils of this bed, and derives 

 its principal interest from the fact that this locality is the nearest to Phila- 

 delphia of the fossiliferons portions of the Cretaceous formation yet announced. 



June Wih. 

 Mr. Joseph Jeanes, in the Chair. 

 Twenty- three members present. 



The following paper, being presented for publication, was referred to 

 a Committee : 



" Descriptions of two new species of fresh-water shells from Michigan, 

 by Manly Miles." 



Mr. Ennis exhibited two of the young of the Kalemys MuUenlurgii. They were 

 found in a meadow near Haddonfield, in Camden Connty, New Jersey. They 

 are of different stages of growth, and show very remarkably the relation of this 

 genus to two other genera. The younger is spotted with small yellow spots 

 similar to those of the Nancmys guttata. The older of the two is sharply sculp- 

 tured with concentric grooves on all the plates of the carapace, similar to those 

 of the Glyptemys insculpta. These facts help to show that, in a systematic ar- 

 rangement, this genus — the Kalemys— shoMld stand between the Nanemys and 

 the Glyplemys^ and this is actually the place assigned to it by Agassiz for other 

 reasons ; he, in his late elaborate treatise on the Teitudinata says he had never 

 seen the young of the Kalemyg. 



The spots on the head and neck of the young Kalemys are as numerous aa 

 those of the adult Nanemys. They are also of a bright lemon color, though 

 two of the spots on the sides of the neck are larger and of the deep orange 

 characteristic of this species. The spots on the carapace are of a dim dusky 

 yellow. There is one on the middle of each plate except on the bordering 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 125 



plates of the sides, where, instead of being on the centre, they are situated on 

 the inner margins. Although the specimen is very young — less than an inch in 

 length — the spots are already wanting on some of the plates, probably vanish- 

 ing with age. 



This species is deeply interesting, and especially so to the members of this 

 Society, on account of its very limited geographical distribution, being con- 

 fined probably to a radius of about 50 miles from the city of Philadelphia. 

 Probably it is in a slow progress towards extinction, and an entire disappear- 

 ance from the earth ; and hence it is plainly important to science that there 

 should be an immediate investigation of the exact boundaries of its distribu- 

 tion, so that hereafter from time to time its course towards an ultimate anni- 

 hilation may be clearly seen. 



Besides being, as already known, one of the smallest of turtles — rather 

 smaller than the N'tinemi/f: guttata — it is quiet and mild in its habits, not at all 

 ferocious, though its food consists chiefly of insects, and in a smaller degree 

 of vegetation. It frequents meadows in the vicinity of streams. As the culti- 

 vation of the land becomes more complete, its haunts will be diminished, its 

 food lessened, and its numbers decreased. 



While this genus is confined to a small distance of the borders of the Dela- 

 ware River, the great confluent of the Delaware Bay, it is remarkable that 

 a species of another genus — the Plychemi/s rugosa — is confined to the con- 

 fluents of the nearly adjoining Chesapeake Bay. 



June 18^7i. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



An announcement was made of the death of Francis Peters, Esq., a 

 member of the Academy, at Paris, France, on the 19th of May. 



June 25<7i. 



Viee-Presideofc Bridges in the Chair, 



Twenty-two members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following were ordered 

 to be published in the Proceedings : 



Descriptions of new species of Cyrena, Corbicnla and Sphaeriunu 

 BY TEMPLE PRIME. 



1. Cyrena Cyprinaeformis Prime. C. testa ovato-suborbieulari, valde 

 inaequilaterali, turgida, crassa, epidermide viriJi-nigrescente vestita ; umboni- 

 biis minimis, oblique antice curvatis, acutis, parum prominentibus ; latere 

 antico brevi, rotundato, postice subtruncato ; lamina cardinali lata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus elongatis, prominentibus, apice profunda furcatis ; dentibus late- 

 ralibus brevibus, antico crasso, conico. 



Long. 91 ; lat. 85 ; diam. 60 mill. 



Hub. — Northern Australia. (Collect. Cuming et Prime.) 



This large species is somewhat allied to the Cyrena Cyprinoides Quoy ; 



it is, however, less triangular in its general appearance, and its beaks are less 



inflated. 



2. Cyrena 1 ae vis P/-i/«e. C. testa orbiculato-trigona, depressiuscula, inae- 

 quilaterali, tenui, minuta ; epilermide viridi-glaucescente vestita ; regnlari- 

 ter transversim striata; latere antico obtuso, margiue superiore postico con- 



1861.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



vexoinferiore, arcuato ; umbonibus parvis, depressis, obliqiiis, approximatis, 

 detorticatis ; ligamento elongate ; valvis tenuis, intus candidissimis ; cardine 

 angusto, inaequaliter tridentato ; dentibuscardinalibusobliquisminutis, medi- 

 ano et postico dente valvae dextrae bifidis ; dentibus lateralibus parum elon- 

 gatis brevibus. 



Long. 46 ; lat. 42 ; diam. 22 mill. 



Hah. — Borneo. (Collect. Prime.) 



This light and delicate species seems different from any other that has 

 come under my notice. 



3. Cyrena regularis Prime. C. testa ovato-rotundata, tumida, cordi- 

 formi, valde inaequilaterali ; epidermide viridi vestita ; latere antico acuto, 

 postico subtruncato, latere supero posticali sulco sinuoso decurrente separate; 

 umbonibus tiimidis, brevibus ; ligamento angusto ; valvis intus albis ; car- 

 dine utroque latere tridentato ; dentibus cardinalibus obliquis, mediauo et 

 postico dente valvae dextrae bifidis ; dentibus lateralibus brevibus, antico 

 erasso, conico, apice acuto. 



Long. 78 ; lat. (59 ; diam. 40 mill. 



i/a6^ ?— (Collect. Prime.) 



Somewhat similar in general appearance to the Cyrena Caledonica 

 Gassles ; it is, however, anteriorly more angular, the body of the shell is 

 more inflated, the beaks are more prominent, and the epidermis is smoother 

 and more regular. 



4. Cyrena Slam ens is Prime. C. testa ovato-transversa, subtrigona, in- 

 aequilaterati, convexa, postice subtruncata, antice valde declivi, crassa, solida, 

 in medio convexa ; epidermide fusca induta ; irregulariter striata ; valvis 

 intus albis ; umbonibus depressis, brevibus, saepius erosis ; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus tribus, obliquis, approximatis, fere parallelis, superne canaliculatis ; 

 dentibus lateralibus subaequalibus. 



Long. 61 ; lat. 47 ; diam. 27 mill. 

 Hob. — Siam. (Collect. Cuming et Prime.) 



Nearly' allied to the Cyrena Sumatrensis Sowerhy, from which it differs, 

 however, in being less inflated, smaller and generally less ponderous. 



5. Cyrena Bernardiana Prime. C. testa ovato-transversa, trigona, in- 

 aequilaterati, tumida, crassa, in medio ventricosa, margine superiore arcuato ; 

 epidermide viridi vestita ; regulariter striata ; umbonibus parvis elevatis ; 

 ligamento elongato, partim infosso ; valvis solidis, intus candidissimis ; car- 

 dine angusto, inaequaliter tridentato ; dentibus cardinalibus angustis ; denti- 

 bus lateralibus elongatis. 



Long. 65 ; lat. 49 ; diam. 38 mill. 

 Hah. — New Caledonia. (Collect. Cuming et Prime.) 



I dedicate this species to the Chevalier Bernard! of the Conohological Jour- 

 nal of Paris. 



6. Corbioula erosa Prime. C. testa trigona, subaequilaterali, tumida, 

 crassa, solida, transversim irregulariter striata ; epidermide nigrescente ves- 

 tita ; latero antico brevi, postico obtuso ; margine inferiore parum arcuato ; 

 umbonibus inflatis, erosis ; cardine incrassato, tridentato ; dentibus cardinali- 

 bus crassis ; dentibus lateralibus aequalibus, serrulatis. 



Long. 20 ; lat. 18 ; diam. 13 mill. 



Hah. — Camboidia. (Collect. Cuming, Jay et Prime.) 



Compared to the Corbicula L y d i g i a n a Nobis, the only species to which it 

 seems at all allied, it is less elevated, not so triangular in appearance, its lines 

 of growth are less regular and deeper, its epidermis is darker and rougher. 



7. Corbicula br u n ea Prmp. C. testa ovato-transversa, subaequilaterali, 

 extremitatis aequaliter obtusa, transversim striata, suk-is regularibus ; epi- 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 127 



dermide brunea vestita; virabonibus parvis, integris, laevigatis ; intus violacea ; 

 cardine tridentato ; dentibus lateralibus aequalibus. 



Long. 22 ; lat. 19 ; diam. 12 mill. 



Hab. — Scamander River. (Collect. Prime.) 



8. Corbicula rhomboidea Prime. C. testa ovato-transversa, subaequi- 

 laterali, tumidula, utraqne extremitate obtusa, transversim striata, sulcis 

 profundis et regularibus ; epidermide fuscescente vestita ; umbonibus tumidis, 

 erosis ; intus Candida ad margines pallide coerulea ; cardine incrassato, inae- 

 qualiter tridentato ; dentibus lateralibus aequalibus, praelongis, tenuissime 

 striatis. 



Long. 24 ; lat. 21 ; diam. 14 mill. 



Hab. — Malacca. (Collect. Cuming et Prime.) 



Compared to the Corbicula brunea Nobis, it is heavier, more inflated, the 

 beaks are fuller, both cardinal and lateral teeth are broader and stronger, the 

 color of the interior of the valves is of a lighter shade ; the epidermis is darker 

 and the lines of growth are a littlie heavier. 



9. Corbicula notata Prime. C. testa ovato-transversa, tumidiuscula, 

 tenui, aequilaterali ; utraque extremitate aequaliter obtusa ; valvis intus viride 

 violaceis ; epidermide viridi vestita ; transversim sulcata ; sulcis disfantibus ; 

 umbonibus parvis, turgidulis, integris ; cardine angusto; dentibus cardinalibus 

 tribus, iuaequalibus, divergentibus ; dentibus lateralibus angustis, ajcuatis. 



Long. 18 ; lat. 14 ; diam. 10 mill. 



Hab. — Philippines. (Collect. Cuming, Jay et Prime.) 



Very nearly allied to the Corbicula tumid a Deshayes ; it is, however, 

 lighter of texture, more eqtiilateral, less inflated, the beaks are smaller, the 

 lines of growth are not quite so heavy and more numerous ; the cardinal teeth 

 are more distinct. 



10. Corbicula minor Prime. C. testa ovato-transversa, depressiuscula, 

 tenui, subaequilaterali, extremitatibus rotundata ; umbonibus prominentibus, 

 erosis ; sulcis regularibus ; epidermide virescente vestita ; intus violacea ; 

 dentibus primariis crassis ; lateralibus subaequalibus. 



Long. 15 ; lat. 11 ; diam. 7 mill. 

 Hab. ?- (Collect. Prime.) 



Compared to the Corbicula inaequilaterali Nobis, this species is more 

 equilateral and less elongated. 



11. Corbicula p a r V u 1 a Prune. C. testa ovato-transversa, depressiuscula, 

 tenui, aequilaterali, extremitatibus rotundata ; umbonibus magnis, tumidis, 

 erosis ; sulcis irregularibus ; epidermide viridi flavescente, irregulariter macu- 

 lata vestita ; intus pallide violacea ; dentibus primariis crassis, lateralibus 

 aequalibus. 



Long. 12 ; lat. 10 ; diam. 5 mill. 

 Hab. — India. (Collect. Prime.) 



12. Corbicula s u b r a d i a t a Prnne. 

 Cyrena subradiata Kurr., in litt. 



C. testa trigona, aequilatf-rali, compressiuscula, antice paulo latiore et ob- 

 tusiore, striis regularibus, distantibus, epidermide viridi, nitente induta-; intus 

 pallide violacea ; umbonibus minimis, acutis antice obliquatis, violaceo-sub- 

 radiatis ; cardine angusto, dentibus primariis crassis. 



Long. 14 ; lat. 12 ; diam. 7 mill. 



Hab. — India. (Collect. Prime.) 



Very closely allied to the Corbicula r a d i a t a Deshayes, from the Nile, it 

 differs in being less inflated, more oval shaped, the beaks are less full and 

 more acute. 



13. Corbicula solidula Prime. C. testa ovato-trigona, crassula, aequi 



1861.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



laterali, tumidula ; striis regularibus distantibus ; epidermide flavescente in- 

 duta ; valvis solidiusculis, intus albis, umbonibiis prominentibus, erosis, 

 cardine crasso, tridentato. 



Long. 11 ; lat. 10 ; diam, 6 mill. 



Hah. ?— (Collect. Prime.) 



14. Corbicula v i o 1 a c e a Prime. C. testa ovato-transversa, subaequilate- 

 rali, obliqua, extremitatibus aequaliter obtusa, transversim irregulariter 

 striata ; epidermide squalide virescente vestita; umbonibus magnis, obliquis, 

 erosis, intus profunde violacea ; cardine angusto tridentato. 



Long. 15 ; lat. 13 ; diam. 8 mill. 

 Hah. ?— (Collect. Jay et Prime.) 



15. Corbicula A g r e n s i s Prime. 



Ct/rena Agrensis Kurr., in litt. 



C. testa ovato-transversa, aequilaterali, laevigata, depressiuscula, extremi- 

 tatibus rotundata ; epidermide viridi-olivacea induta ; sulcis regularibus, dis- 

 tantibus ; intus pallide violacea ; umbonibus tumidis, erosis ; cardine angusto, 

 dentibus cardinalibus crassis, lateralibus aequalibus, teuuiter serrulatis. 



Long. 9 ; lat. 8 ; diam. 5 mill. 



Hah. — Agra, India. (Collect. Prime.) 



16. Corbicula inaequilateralis Prime. C. testa ovato-transversa, 

 depressiuscula, tenui, inaequilaterali ; extremitatibus rotundata ; umbonibus 

 prominentibus, approximatis, antice obliquatis, violaceo subradiatis ; sulcis 

 regularibus, intus pallide violacea ; epidermide pallide virescente induta ; car- 

 dine angusto ; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, lateralibus inaequalibus. 



Long. 16 ; lat. 12 ; diam. 8 mill. 

 Z?a6.— Africa. (Collect. Prime.) 



17. Spliaerium Vermontana Prime. S. testa ovato-trigona, tumida, 

 inaequilaterali,, striis regularibus, epidermide viridi- flavescente vestita ; um- 

 bonibus tumidis ; cardine arcuato ; dentibus lateralibus crassis. 



Long. 11 ; lat. 10 ; diam. 7 mill. 

 Hah. — Vermont, N. America. (Collect. Prime.) 



Tbis species, though somewhat allied to Sph. striatinum Lam., is much 

 more inequilateral. 



Descriptions of new Palaeozoic Fossils from Illinois and Iowa. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTIIEN, 

 Of the Illinois State Gejlogical Survey. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



CRINOIDEA. 

 Genus PLATYCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 



PLATYCRisns OwENi. — Body rather large, cup-shaped, or sub-hemispherical 

 below the summit of the first radials, rounded on the under side, height about 

 two-thirds the breadth. Base saucer-shaped, or nearly four times as wide as 

 high, pentagonal in outline, the sides being nearly straight or slightly concave, 

 sutures anchylosed; columnar facet large, its breadth equalling about half that 

 of the base, concave, margined by a slightly raised somewhat undulated rim, 

 and perforated by a large central opening. First radial plates large, sub- 

 quadrangular in general outline, but having the superior lateral angles trun- 

 cated for the reception of the anal and interradial pieces, widening a little 

 from the base upwards ; facet for the reception of the second radial pieces 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. ]29 



prominent, near one-third as wide as the plate, and extending down between 

 one-third and one-half its length. Second radial pieces small, extending out 

 nearly horizontally from the first ; round below, and presenting a pentagonal 

 outline, as seen from the under side, supporting on their superior (outer) 

 sloping sides, the two first divisions of the arms. First anal piece rather large 

 for a species of this genus, apparently pentagonal, and extending down between 

 the first radials, nearly as deep as the articulating facets supporting the second 

 radial pieces. (Other parts unknown.) 



Tiie sutures separating the first radial plates from each other, and from the 

 base, are rather distinctly canaliculated, in consequence of the beveling of the 

 edges of the plates. The surface is finely granulose, and ornamented by small 

 obscurely subnodose costse, of which there are two on the base passing around 

 near the margin. Three similar costse ornament the first radial plates, being 

 arranged parallel to the basal and lateral margins, but becoming nearly or 

 quite obsolete above the middle. 



Named in honor of Prof. Richard Owen, of the Geological Survey of Indiana. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth. 



Platycrinus scobina. — Body rather small, cup-shaped or subturbinate below 

 the summit of the first radial pieces. Base basin-shaped, about twice as wide 

 as high, and rather more than equalling one-third the height of the body to 

 the top of the first radials ; pentahedral in outline, with slightly concave 

 sides, columnar facet less than one-third tlie breadth of the base. First radial 

 plates slightly broader than high, widening a little upwards from the base, 

 presenting a subangular outline, the superior lateral angles being truncated 

 for the reception of the anal and interradial pieces ; facet for the reception of 

 the second radial piece not protuberant, concave, rather less than one-third the 

 breadth of the upper side of the first radial plates, and extending down about 

 one-fifth their length. Second radial pieces small, triangular, and supporting 

 on their superior sloping sides the first divisions of the arms. After dividing 

 on the second radial pieces, the arms divide again on tlie second piece above, 

 beyond which they are long, slender, and apparently simple. After the second 

 bifurcation, they are each at first composed of a single series of wedge-shaped 

 pieces, but gradually pass into a double alternating series of pieces, each of 

 which is about as long as wide. 



The surface of the basal and first radial plates is ornamented with numerous 

 small, rather sharply elevated, irregularly arranged nodes, or coarse granules, 

 so as to present a rasp-like appearance. The sutures are closely anchylosed in 

 the base, and well defined between the first radial plates. 



In its surface markings this species is much like P. Wortheni of Hall, but it 

 differs in having a distinctly protuberant, instead of a flat or concave base, 

 and in having but four arms to each ray, instead of eight or nine. 



Localitt/ and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Mr. 

 Charles Wachsmuth's collection. 



Platycrinus (Pleurocrinus) asper. — Body small, rather de<^ply basin- 

 shaped below the arms. Base much depressed, largely and deeply excavated 

 below, with a narrow prominent marginal rim, which is notched at the 

 sutures, and somewhat undulated. First radial plates broader than high, 

 widening moderately upwards and presenting a subquadrangular outline, 

 but really hexagonal, in consequence of the truncation of the superior 

 lateral angles for the reception of the interradial and anal plates ; sinus in 

 the summit of each, for the reception of the second radials, deep, semi- 

 circular, and equalling about half the breadth of the upper side ; surface 

 of each ornamented by a very prominent, sharply elevated carina, which 

 passes across near the lower side, and is waved or often broken up into isola- 

 ted prominences. Second radial pieces triangular, wider than long, and 



1861.] 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nearly entirely received within the sinus, in the upper margin of the first 

 radial pieces. First anal and first interradial plates of apparently about the 

 same size, the former connecting with a range of small plates above, which, 

 form the under margin of the lateral anal opening. 



The arms, after the first division on the second radial plates, divide again 

 on the second piece, above which the two in:.er branches bifurcate again on 

 the second piece, thus making six arms in each ray seen in the specimen 

 under description. Above the last division the arms are slender, very gradu- 

 ally tapering, and each composed of a double series of small alternating pieces, 

 (excepting near the points of bifurcation,) and support on their inner side 

 rather closely set ranges of tentacles. The column is a little compressed, and 

 composed of rather thin pieces, with prominent crenulated margins near the 

 base. 



Localitji and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Charles Wachsmuth. 



Genus FORBESIOCRINUS, Koninck and Le Hon. 



FoKBESiocRiNus MoNROENSis. — Body below the free arms apparently short- 

 turbinate, or subglobose, composed of nearly smooth, rather thick plates, 

 connected by linear sutures. Base small, and nearly hidden by the column. 

 Subradial plates of moderate size, four of them pentagonal, and one on the 

 anal side apparently hexagonal, with unequal sides. First radials about 

 twice as wide as high, hexagonal in form, and nearly twice as large as the 

 subradials. Second, third and fourth radials, in two of the rays, (and the 

 fifth and sixth in another,) all nearly of the same length, hexagonal in form 

 and about twice as wide as long. Last primary radial pieces of nearly the 

 same size as the others, and supporting on their superior sloping sides the 

 secondary radials. 



Of the numerous interradials, the first is about the size of the subradial 

 pieces, hexagonal in form, and supports two smaller pieces in the second 

 range. Above these four or five occur in the next range, in one interradial 

 space, which is as far up as they can be counted in the specimen examined, 

 though it is evident from the breadth of the interradial spaces, that they must 

 increase at the same rate for several ranges above. (Anal plates unknown.) 



The column is rounded and comparatively thick at its junction with the 

 base, from which it tapers gradually towards the lower extremity. Near the 

 base it is composed of extremely thin, equal segments, connected by minutely 

 crenulated sutures. Farther down it gradually passes into a series of alter- 

 nately thicker and thinner pieces. 



After the first division of the rays on the last primary radial pieces, the 

 arms divide several times, and appear to give off lateral branches, but our 

 specimen is not in a condition to enable us to determine how many pieces in- 

 tervene between the points of division, nor do they show whether or not there 

 are any interaxillary pieces. 



The specimen before us presents the peculiar and anomalous appearance of 

 having a small false arm arising directly from the summit of the upper trun- 

 cated side of the largest subradial piece. It seems even to be inserted into a 

 sinus in the upper side of the subradial, yet we can scarcely believe it is any- 

 thing but one of the smaller divisions of the arms, accidentally broken off and 

 placed in that position. 



As near as we can determine from a description alone, this species appears 

 to be somewhat closely related to F. exculptus, ( Onycliocrinus exsculptus, Lyon 

 and Cassiday, Am. Jour. Sci. vol. 29, N. S. page 78,) but differs in having less 

 produced basal pieces, while the upper angles of the subradials are obtuse 

 instead of "quite sharp." It also seems to have two or three more primary 

 radial pieces in one ray than occur in any of those of the species described by 

 Lyon and Cassiday. Again its surface appears to be smooth instead of granu- 



[June, 



■1 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13l 



lose, and we hav^e not been able to see any indications of tlie small patelloid 

 pieces between the radial and arm pieces as in F. exscu^ptus. 



Localit)/ and position. River Bliitf, near the south line of Monroe County, 

 Illinois. Keokuk Limestone of tlie Lower Carboniferous series. 



FoKBEsiocRiNUS Agassizi, var. GIGANTEUS. — This large Crinoid differs from the 

 typical specimen of F. Agassizi (Hall\ in having four instead of three plates 

 in each secondary ray ; (in three of the rays seen) while there are some differ- 

 ences in the number and arrangement of the anal and interradial plates. It 

 also diflers in having its column almost exactly cylindrical for a distance of at 

 least four inches below the base, while that of F. Agassizi, is described as 

 "rapidly tapering below the summit." We suspect it may prove to be a dis- 

 tinct species from that described by Prof. Hall, but as it agrees with his des- 

 cription and diagram in most of its characters, excepting the points of differ- 

 ence we have mentioned, we merely call attention to it as a variety of that 

 species, until we can have an opportunity to compare better examples of it 

 with authentic specimens or figures of Prof. Hall's species. Should it prove 

 to be distinct, it can take the name giganteus, which would be very appropri- 

 ate, since it is the largest species of that genus known, the length of its body 

 to the commencement of its free arms being near 3'30 inches, and its breadth 

 apparently about the same. Its arms are proportionally short, and bifurcate 

 frequently. 



Localitg and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. 



Genus ACTINOCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 



AcTixocRiNDS DODECADACTYLus. — Body rather small, subglobose ; summit and 

 calyx below the arms of nearly the same size ; breadth a little greater than 

 the height ; composed of slightly convex, smooth or subgranulose plates, 

 which are connected by moderately distinct sutures. Base small, much de- 

 pressed or subdiscoidal, obtusely hexagonal in outline, with three other obtuse 

 retreating angles at the sutures. First radial plates wider than long, three 

 of them regularly hexagonal, and two heptagonal. Second radial pieces mucb 

 smaller than the first, about twice as wide as long, and all quadrangular. 

 Third radials a little larger than the second, all regularly hexagonal, the two 

 lateral margins being very short, and the two superior sides each about 

 equalling the base. In the two posterior rays, the third radial pieces each 

 support on one of their superior sloping sides a large brachial piece, and on 

 the other a secondary radial of near the same size, which, in its turn, supports 

 two brachial pieces, making three arms to each of these rays ; while in all the 

 others, two brachial pieces rest directly upon the third radial, thus making 

 only twelve arms in the whole series. The first anal plate is about as wide as 

 the first radials, but a little longer, being longer than wide, instead of the re- 

 verse. It is regularly heptagonal, and supports on each superior lateral slop- 

 ing side, a smaller heptagonal piece ; while an elongated, coffin-shaped piece 

 rests upon its short superior truncated side, between the two latter, and ex- 

 tends up, flanked on either side by the first brachials, to its connection with, 

 the summit. Each of the interradial spaces is filled by a single ovate, octago- 

 nal i)iece, about as large as the second and third radial pieces taken together. 



The vault is composed of rather large, somewhat regularly arranged plates 

 which are very nearly flat, the smaller ones all being on the anal side ; the 

 proboscis is small, and located nearer the anal than the dorsal side. 



Height to base of proboscis, 0-50 inch ; breadth, 0-58 inch ; breadth of base, 

 0-23 inch. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. 



AcTiNOCRiNus PYRiFOEMis, var. RUDis. — Actinocrinus pyriformis, Shumard, 1855, 

 Geol. Report of Missouri, p. 192, pi. A, fig. 6, a, t. 



Body exclusive of the proboscis pyriform, being very narrow and apparently 



1861.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cylindrical from the base to the top of the third radial plates, above which 

 the secondary radial and brachial pieces curve abruptly outwards to the base 

 of the arras, so as to form with tlie ventricose summit a much expanded vis- 

 ceral cavity, entirely above the basal and primary radial plates. Base un- 

 known ; first radials unknown, excepting from some remaining portions of 

 their upper ends, which show tliat tliey are comparatively large. Second 

 radials very small, a little wider than long, (those seen) irregularly pentagonal 

 in form, one of the sides being much shorter than the others. Third radials 

 as long as the first, and nearly one-third wider, (the only two visible in our 

 specimen,) hexagonal in form, and each supporting on its superior sloping 

 sides two secondary radials of about its own size. Each of these is surmounted 

 by a somewhat larger second secondary radial, which in its turn supports two 

 first brachial pieces, each of which is succeeded by a second, from which the 

 free arms are given off. The two series of secondary radials, and the four 

 series of brachial pieces in each ray, connect laterally, so as to leave 

 no room for interaxillary and interbrachial pieces. Interradial plates two or 

 three, the first being about the same size as the second radials, and hexagonal 

 or heptagonal in form. Above this there are one or two small pieces, of variable 

 size and form, over which the secondary radials, and the lateral series of bra- 

 chial pieces of the rays on each side, connect all the way up to the free arms, 

 in such a manner as to leave no spaces for interradials above those just descri- 

 bed. (Anal plates unknown.) 



Dome hemispherical, composed of pentagonal, hexagonal, and heptagonal 

 plates of nearly uniform size, each of which is provided with a spine-like 

 tubercle. Proboscis central or nearly so. Arm openings twenty. Surface 

 smooth or obscurely granulose ; small rather pointed tubercles are also seen 

 on the second and third radial plates, first interradials, and first secondary 

 radials. 



It is possible this Crinoid may be specifically distinct from A. pyriformis, of 

 Shumard, but it agrees with it in so many respects that we do not feel fully 

 warranted in regarding it as specifically distinct. Its most important difier- 

 ences are the sub-spiniferous character of its plates, and the possession of only 

 two or three interradial plates, instead of six in each interradial space. It 

 also difi"ers in having a more ventricose dome, while the inferior half of its 

 body is more abruptly contracted below the arms. 



Localitji and position. Salt Lick Point, Mouroe County, Illinois. Where it 

 occurs in beds of the same age as the Chouteau Limestone of Prof. Swallow. 



AcTiNOCRiNus (Amphoracrinus ?) coxcAvus. — Body small, subglobose, broader 

 than high, a little oblique ; summit nearly flat ; under side rounded and dis- 

 tinctly concave, sides rising vertically or nearly so. Surface smooth or sub- 

 granulose. Base small, concave, and entirely included within the concavity 

 of the under side. First radial plates comparatively large, convex, and curv- 

 ing under, so as to form a part of the concavity below ; two of them hept- 

 agonal, and three hexagonal. Second radial pieces (wanting in two of the rays 

 of the specimen before us,) wider than long, and quadrangular in form in the 

 others. 



Third radial pieces smaller than the second, (in three of the rays,) pent- 

 agonal in form, and each supporting upon its superior sloping sides the first 

 brachial pieces, which form a part of the walls of the body. First interradial 

 pieces, comparatively large, or about one-half the size of the first radial plates, 

 nine-sided, the superior sloping sides of each supporting one side of two of 

 the brachial pieces, while two very small pieces rest upon the middle of the 

 summit, and connect with the vault above, and with the brachial pieces on 

 each side. First anal piece a little larger than the first radials, heptagonal in 

 form, and supporting in the next range three pieces, the two lateral of which 

 are larger than the other, and connect above on their sloping sides, with 

 brachial pieces, while the middle piece between these is irregularly hexagonal, 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



and supports three very small pieces in the next range, which connect with 

 the anal opening, and the vault pieces above, and with the brachials on each 

 aide. The vault is made up of a few comparatively large pieces, the central 

 one of which is a little more convex than the others. The anal opening is 

 very small, lateral, or about on tlie same horizon as the arm openings, and 

 surrounded by only five plates, which are not protuberant. There are twelve 

 small arm openings arranged around the margin of the summit, three to each 

 of the posterior rays, and two to each of the others. The arms would appear, 

 from the small size of the openings, and the very small articulating surfaces 

 for the reception of the first free arm pieces, to be very slender and fragile. 

 (Column unknown.) 



Height of body, C-31 inch., breadth from the anal to the anterior side, 0*42 

 inch ; breadth of base, 0*17 inch. 



This is a very remarkable species, difi"ering from any other Actinocrinus 

 known to us, in the concavity of the under side, and the incurved character 

 of its first anal, and first radial pieces. Its under side presents much the ap- 

 pearance of Zeacrimts, though in the number and arrangement of the parts 

 composing the whole body it will be seen to possess all the essential characters 

 of the great genus Actinocrinus as it is now understood. We place it provi- 

 sionally in the sub-genus Amphoracrinus, on account of the lateral position of 

 the anal opening, but we suspect it should be made the type of a distinct 

 sub-genus. It differs from Agaricocrinus, in having comparatively miich 

 larger first radial pieces, as well as in the general form of its body, and its 

 much smaller arms, which are also located around the summit, instead of 

 around the lower part of the body. 



We are under obligations to Mr. Charles Waehsmuth, of Burlington, Iowa, 

 for the use of the only specimen we have seen. 



Localiti] and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone, of the 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



AcTiNOCKiNus (Pradocri>'us ?) AMPLFS. — Body large, unshaped, composed of 

 thin, smooth, or finely granulose plates. Base comparatively small, somewhat 

 spreading ; columnar facet large, or between one-half and two-thirds as wide 

 as the base, having a small marginal rim. Column strong, round, and com- 

 posed of thin segments near the body, where it has a very minute round 

 central cavity. First radial plates rather large, a little longer than wide, and 

 all apparently hexagonal, there being no distinct angle at the middle of those 

 alternating with the basal pieces. Second radial plates about two-thirds as 

 large as the first, nearly or quite as wide as long, and all hexagonal. Third 

 radials a little smaller than the second, hexagonal and heptagonal in form, 

 and supporting on their superior sloping sides the two first brachial pieces, 

 which are comparatively large, and each succeeded by three or four much 

 smaller short brachials, before the arms pass into double alternating ranges of 

 small pieces. The first anal plate is as large as the first radials, pentagonal 

 in form, and supports two subhexagonal pieces in the next range, above which 

 there are some twelve or thirteen other smaller pieces of various forms. The 

 first interradial plates are a little largerthan the second radials, irregulary hex- 

 agonal, and each surmounted by two rather small pieces in the second range, 

 and three in the next, over whith there are six or seven still smaller pieces, 

 making eleven or twelve in each interradial space. 



After the division of the rays on the tliird primary pieces, the brachials 

 above the first pair curve nearly horizontally outwards, but are included so 

 as to form a part of the walls of the body. Beyond the fourth or fifth brachial, 

 the arms consist of a double row of small alternating pieces, of which there 

 are eight or ten ranges, to a point where the first bifurcation of the free arms 

 takes place. 



Beyond this division, the arms continue to be strong, rounded, and each 

 composed of a double series of short alternating pieces, though the specimen 

 1861.] 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



under examination is not in a condition to show whether or not there were any 

 other bifurcations. They all extend out nearly horizontally at first, and gradu- 

 ally curve upwards. Resting upon the inner sloping sides of each pair of 

 first brachial pieces, there is a rather large interaxillary piece, with three or 

 four much smaller pieces above. 



The vault is moderately convex, and composed of innumerable minute 

 pieces, and is provided with a central, or sub-central proboscis. It appears 

 to have continued out over the anus as far as to the third or fourth ranges of 

 small alternating arm pieces. 



This species evidently belongs to the same group as that on which M. 

 de Vernuil proposed to establish the genus Pradocrinus, which Prof. Koninck 

 thinks does not differ from Ctenocrinus of Bronn. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth. 



AcTiNOCRiNus SiLLiMANi. — Body of moderate size, distinctly stelliform, or 

 pentalobate, as seen from below or above, in consequence of the deeply sinu- 

 ous character of the interradial and anal spaces ; rapidly spreading from the 

 base to the third radials, which, with the secondary and tertiary radials, and 

 brachial pieces, extend out horizontally. Summit nearly flat and provided 

 with a rather small sub-central proboscis. Basal pieces short, thickened and 

 projecting down over the summit of the column, so as to form a distinctly 

 trilobate rim, deeply indented at the sutures; columnar facet concave, and 

 rather less than one-third the breadth of the base. First radial plates about 

 as large as the anal pieces, very thick and prominent ; wider than high, three 

 of them heptagonal, (the angle at the middle of the under side being very 

 obtuse,) and two hexagonal. Second radial pieces smaller than the first, 

 thick and prominent, wider than high, and hexagonal in form. Third radials 

 about the size of the second, wider than long, heptagonal or hexagonal, and 

 supporting on each superior sloping side a secondary radial. Each of the lat- 

 ter supports on its outer side a series of brachial pieces, and on its inner side 

 tertiary radials, on the second of which another bifurcation takes place, making 

 six arms to each ray, or thirty in the entire series. The two secondary, and 

 the four tertiary radials, as well as two or tliree of the brachial pieces on each 

 side of them, are covered in above by vault pieces. The first anal plate is 

 hexagonal, and nearly as large as the first radial pieces. In the next range 

 above, it supports two smaller hexagonal jjieces, which in their turn support 

 three pieces in the next range, the middle one of which is larger and longer 

 than the others. On each side of this larger middle piece, there are two other 

 smaller pieces resting upon the two lateral pieces of the third range, and con- 

 necting with the vault above, and with the brachial pieces on each side. The 

 first anal plate is regularly hexagonal, and supports two smaller pieces in the 

 second range, over which there are three or four still smaller pieces connect- 

 ing with the vault above. 



A marked feature of this species is the prominence, and very profound 

 sculpturing of its plates. Its first radial and first anal pieces rise into elevated 

 transverse nodes, which occupy nearly their entire surface, and project beyond 

 the base, so as to present a distinct six-lobed outline, as seen from below. 

 From the under side of each of these prominences, one or two short ribs con- 

 nect with the base, while similar ribs connect them with each other on each 

 side. A single, rather prominent rib also passes from each to a smaller node 

 on each second radial piece above. 



The two second anal pieces, and all the first interradials are provided in the 

 middle with a rounded, rather small, very prominent subspiniferous node. 

 The third radial pieces have a central prominence, connecting by short carinae 

 with the node on the second radial below, as well as with each of the second- 

 ary radials above. On the latter pieces, these carinae bifurcate, and extend 

 along the tertiary radial and lateral brachial pieces, leaving deep depressions 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PUILADELPniA. 135 



between. The upper anal and interradial plates are convex, but do not gene- 

 rally rise into distinct nodes. 



Named in honor of the venerable Prof. B. Silliman, St., of New Haven, 

 Connecticut, who perhaps did more to create an interest in scientific studies 

 and pursuits, at an early period in the history of this country, than any other 

 person now living. 



Localiti/ and position. Clear Creek. Warren County, Illinois. Burlington 

 Limestone. 



Genus AGARICOCRINUS, Troost. 



Agaricocrinus gracilis. — Body small, truncato-subglobose exclusive of the 

 arms ; under side concave, the concavity extending out to the middle of the 

 second radial, first interradial, and second range of anal pieces, all of which 

 are geniculated, or abruptly bent upwards, and swollen, so as to form a circle 

 of hemispherical nodes around the margins of the concave under side. 



Anal and interradial pieces rising vertically from the margins of the con- 

 cavity below. Dome rather depressed, and provided with a short, strong, 

 sub-central spine. Anal opening small, not protuberant, and placed about on 

 a level with the arm openings, which are located slightly above the middle of 

 the entire body, including the dome. 



Base small, concave, nearly or quite hidden by the column. First radial 

 plates flat, included within the concavity of the under side, about as wide as 

 long, and apparently all hexagonal. Second radials slightly larger than the 

 first, and quadrangular in form. Third radial pieces shorter and wider than 

 the second, and each provided with an obtuse mesial ridge, which connects 

 with the prominence of the second radials below ; sub-lieptagonaLin outline, 

 the superior angle being rather salient, and the slopes on each side supporting 

 the first brachial pieces. First interradial pieces larger than the first or 

 second radial plates, wider above the geniculation than below ; irregu- 

 larly octagonal in form, and supporting two smaller elongated pieces in 

 the next range above. First anal plate small, and included within the con- 

 cavity of the under side ; supporting in the next range three larger pieces, the 

 middle one of which is smaller than the other two. Above these five smaller 

 pieces are seen in the next range, which is as far as they can be counted in 

 the specimen examined. After the first division on the third radial pieces, 

 the arms are each at first composed of a single nodose brachial piece, but 

 almost immediately pass into a double series of short alternating pieces, which 

 support a closely set range of tentacles on each side within. As they do not 

 bifurcate again, there are but two arms to each ray, or ten in the entire series. 

 Near the base the column is rather slender, round, and composed of alternately 

 thicker and thinner plates, with a very small round central perforation. The 

 surface is finely and regularly granulose where well preserved, but generally 

 appears to be smooth. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth. 



Platycrixus multi-brachiatcs. — Body below the summit of the first radial 

 pieces depressed, basin-shaped. Base discoid, pentagonal in outline, moder- 

 ately concave below, and not prominent enough to be seen in a side view ; 

 columnar facet about one-third as wide as the base. First radial plates large, 

 broader than high, and widening rather rapidly upwards from the base ; facet 

 for the reception of the second radial pieces prominent, extending down appa- 

 rently below the middle of the plate. Second radial pieces small, trian- 

 gular, wider than long, and extending obliquely outwards and upwards from 

 the first radials. 



After dividing on the second radials, the arms bifurcate again on the second 

 piece, and the two inner divisions, whicli are larger than the others, bifurcate 

 again on the second piece, above which two of the sub-divisions in some of the 



1861.] 




ISO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



rays again divide once more, making seven rays to some of the arms and 

 eight to others. The arms are rounded, very gradually tapering, and each 

 composed of a double series of alternating pieces, supporting tentacles within. 

 The sutures separating the first radials, as well as those between them and the 

 base, are rather distinctly grooved, as well as those between the succeeding 

 pieces, up to the last bifurcation of the free arms. 



The surface of the first radial plates is rather concave, and between the pro- 

 jecting margin of the sinus above, and the marginal grooves ; the concave 

 space being sometimes marked by very faint traces of small radiating corruga- 

 tions. Very small longitudinal obscure striae or wrinkles, can also be seen by 

 the aid of a magnifier on the outer side of the arms, above the last divisions. 



This species is allied to P. corruf/atus of Owen and Shumard, but diflFers in the 

 style of its surface markings, being in fact nearly entirely smooth. It also 

 differs in having a distinct marginal groove along the sides and base of its first 

 radial plates. Its body is also proportionally higher to the summit of the first 

 radials. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth. 



Genus CYATHOCRINUS, Miller. 1821. 



Ctathocrinus Wachsmcthi. — Body depressed, obconical, or subturbinate. 

 Base of moderate size, low, and distinctly pentagonal, the angles formed by 

 the extremities of the plates a little incurved. Columnar facet covering about 

 one-third to one-fourth of each basal piece. Column obscurely pentagonal 

 near the base, the angles being rounded ; central perforation comparatively 

 large and pentagonal. Subradial plates five or six times as large as the basal 

 pieces, about as long as wide, three of them hexagonal, and two on the anal 

 side heptagonal, all indented or incurved at the sides and at the upper angles. 

 First radials larger than the subradials, unequal in size, and wider than long ; 

 all heptagonal, in consequence of the truncation of the superior lateral angles 

 apijarently for the reception of small interradials, each having the angles below 

 distinctly indented, and upper side truncated, and moderately concave for the 

 reception of the succeeding plates. Second radials very short or nearly linear, 

 and about two-thirds as wide as the first. Third radials generally a little 

 narrower, and longer than the second, and apparently triangular in form. 

 Sub-anal piece comparatively large, quadrangular, and indented at the angles ; 

 first true anal plate larger than the sub-anal piece, heptagonal in form, resting 

 upon a very short upper truncated side of one of the subradials, and connect- 

 ing on each side with the first radials ; its right inferior sloping side also rest- 

 ing against the sub-anal piece. The arms after dividing on the third radials, 

 are strong and rounded on the outer side ; one of the divisions in each of the 

 rays, excepting anterior one, bifurcates again on the fourth piece. All the 

 divisions and subdivisions are rounded, gradually tapering, and composed 

 eafch of a single series of pieces as long as, or a little longer than wide, and 

 giving off at intervals of two or three pieces alternately on opposite sides, 

 rather strong jointed lateral divisions, which extend obliquely outwards and 

 bifurcate several times. The surface seems to be merely irregularly granulose. 

 On examining it closely, however, traces of very small radiating slightly raised 

 lines are seen on the subradial and radial plates, as well as extending up the 

 principal divisions of the arms. 



We take pleasure in dedicating this species to Mr. Charles Wachsmuth, of 

 Burlington, Iowa, to whom we are indebted for the use of the specimen de- 

 scribed. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone of the 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



Genus BURSACRINUS, N. G. 



(ffufxra a purse ; npivo; a lily, in allusion to the purse-like form of the typical 



species, as seen with its arms folded together.) 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



G eneric formula. 



Basal plates, 5 1 



Subradial plates, 5 ; fonr hexagonal and one pentagonal. 



Radial plates, 2X5. 



Anal plate, 1. 



Interradial plates, none. 



Arms, 10, bifurcating. 

 The crinoid npon which wi; propose to found this genus, has much the ap- 

 pearance of an Icttthijocr'nns, with which genus it seems to agree, excepting in 

 having true subradial plates, and bat two, instead of threH primary radial 

 plates in each ray ; also in the possession of a distinct anal plate. 



Notwithstanding its general similarity to Ichthijocrimm, its strac'ure is more 

 nearly like that of Cijathocrinu-:, from which it differs mainly in having only 

 two, instead of three primary radial pieces in each ray, and much broader and 

 flatter arms, which connect laterally as in Ichthjocrinus, so as to leave no in- 

 terradial spaces. 



BoBSACKiNus Wachsmctoi. — Body below the summit of the first radial plates 

 rather broad turbinate, or rapidly expanding from below. B.ise unknown. 

 Subradial plates of moderate size, a little wider than long, and all hex igonal, 

 excepting one on the anal side, which is larger than the others, and liept- 

 agonal in form ; the angles at the middle of the under side of each being less 

 salient than that above. First radial plates about one-third larger than the 

 subradials, near twice as wide as high, and all pentagonal, the upper sido 

 being transversely truncated. Second radial pieces of the same size and form 

 as the first, but inverted so as to bring the truncated side below ; supporting 

 on their superior sloping sides the first divisions of the arms, which are broad, 

 flat, and count cted laterally with each other all around. Anal jiiece rather 

 small, lon;;er thnn wide, heptagonal, the angle at the middle of the summit 

 being more salient than the others; supported upon the sliort truncated 

 upper side of one of the .-ubradials, and connecting on each side with the first 

 and se<ond radial plates, and the fiist of the broad secondary radial or arm 

 pieces above. 



After the first division on the second radials, the arms bifurcate again on 

 the sixth or eighth piece, above which one is seen to bifurcate again on the 

 twelfth piece, which is as far as they can be traced in the only specimen seen, 

 though they seem to be long and probably bifurcate once or oftener above. 



Between the divisions on the second radial pieces, and the next bifuroation 

 above, they are very wide, flat, and composed of short, slightly wedge formed 

 pieces, which are squarely truncated on each side. The next' divisions above 

 these are a little more than half as wide, and composed of a single series of 

 pieces bearing near the same proportions of length and breadth as those below. 

 The surface is finely granulose, though there are no traces of nodes, costse, or 

 other prominences on any of the plates. The sutures are merely linear, and 

 not impressed. 



We take pleasure in dedicating this interesting species, (the type of a new 

 genua,) to Mr. Charles Wachsmuth, of Burlington, Iowa, who discovered 

 the only specimen we have seen. 



Position and locality. Burlington Limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 



Genus POTERIOCRINUS, Miller, 1821. 



PoTBKiocRiNus ? ENORMis. — Body Small, irregularly cup-shaped ; sides some- 

 what convex, expanding from the base ; breadth greater than the height. 

 Base small, spreading from the column, above which the plates are snen pre- 

 senting small pentagonal faces. Subradial plates comparatively large, un- 

 equal, hexagonal in form, excepting one on the anal side, which is much 

 larger tlian the others, and sub-heptagonal in outline. First radial plates 



1861.] 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



larger than the smaller subradials, longer than wide, and irregularly sub- 

 hexagonal or heptagonal ; facet for the reception of the second radials small, 

 not protuberant outwards, shallow and about one-third as wide as the plates. 

 Arms above the first radial pieces very slender, cylindrical, and composed of 

 a single series of segments from twice to three or four times as long as wide. 

 In some of the rays the first division takes place on the second, in others on 

 the third, and in the anterior ray on the fourth piece above the first radials, 

 after which they bifurcate irregularly once, twice, or oftener, on the second, 

 third or fouith piece. The first anal plate is rather large, and rests upon the 

 upper truncated side of the largest subradial plate, so as to project considera- 

 bly above the first radials. Its left side curves inwards, and its right con- 

 nects with another plate of nearly its own size resting upon a sloping side of 

 the first radial on the right. Above these are seen several other plates, which 

 form together a kind of slender lateral trunk, or proboscis, rising like an arm 

 on a range with the true arms. Some little distance above, it curves in with 

 its upper extremity between the arms, leaving at its base, on the left, a cavity 

 or opening, passing apparently into the body between it and the first arm on 

 that side. 



The surface is finely granulose, and the sutures indistinct. The column is 

 small, rovind, and composed of nearly equal, rather short joints, near the 

 base. 



A very marked feature of this species, is its peculiarity of having apparently 

 a slender proboscis much like an arm, rising from the anal side, with an 

 opening between its left side and one of the arms. This is so anomalous a 

 character, that if we were sure it is not due to some accident, we would have 

 regarded the species as the type of a new genus. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Chs. Wachsmuth. 



PoTERiocRixus stTB-iMPRESsus> — Body o^bcouical. Base forming a shallow cup 

 about twice as wide as high, expanding moderately from the summit of the 

 column ; composed of plates which are about as high as wide, and pentagonal 

 in form, the angle at the middle of the upper side of each being a little in- 

 dented. First radials somewhat smaller than the subradials, wider than long, 

 pentagonal, or some of them hexagonal, and truncated above for the reception 

 of the second radials. First anal or sub-anal plate, a little larger than the 

 basal pieces, pentagonal, and resting between the upper sloping sides of two 

 of the subradial pieces ; second anal piece of the same size as the first, hex- 

 agonal in form, and resting upon the upper truncated side of one of the sub- 

 radials, while its left side connects with one of the first radials, and its right 

 with one side of the first anal piece, and with a third hexagonal piece resting 

 upon it. (Succeeding parts unknown.) 



The column is comparatively strong at its connection with the base, near 

 which it is composed of rather thin segments, connected by crenulated sutures ; 

 its central perforation is of moderate size and pentagonal. 



The surface seems to be granulose, and the subradial pieces show a very 

 .slight tendency to develope short costfc near the sutures on each side, and 

 below, as well as sometimes at their connection with the first radials above. 



The round indentations at the angles of the subradial and first radial plates, 

 present a rather marked character in this species. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Mr. 

 Charles Wachsmuth's collection. 



PoTERiocRiNus TENCiBRACHiATUs. — Body Small, calyculate, or turbinate below 

 the summit of the first radial plates. Base small, forming a low pentagonal 

 saucer-shaped cup, composed of small plates, showing a pentagonal outline 

 above the column. Subradial plates rather large, about as wide as long, three 

 hexagonal, and two on the anal side heptagonal, and a little longer than the 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



others. First radial plates somewhat larger than the subradials, wider thau 

 long and pentagonal in form ; facet for the reception of the second radials 

 moderately prominent, a little concave, and from one-half to two-thirds the 

 breadth of the plate. Anal plates three, the first (or subanal piece) hexagonal, 

 and resting between the upper sloping sides of two of the subradial pieces, 

 while another on the left rests against this, and upon the superior truncated 

 side of one of the subradials. A third piece is supported on the upper trun- 

 cated side of the subanal piece, and projects more than half its length above 

 the first radial on its right. The succeeding primary radial pieces after the 

 first, are distinctly smaller, and a little wider than long. In all excepting the 

 anterior ray, where the bifurcation takes place on the fifth plate, the first divi- 

 sion of the arms takes place on the fourth primary radial. Above this the 

 arms, which are very long, slender and rounded, divide again on the fourth, 

 piece, af(4r which the divisions bifurcate three or four times, and become 

 very attenuate. Each division is composed of a single series of pieces, usually 

 about twice as long as wide. 



The proboscis connects directly with the anal plates already described, and 

 is made up of hexagonal plates, along the sutures of which, distinct vertical 

 ranges of rather large and distinct pores are seen. The entire surface is finely 

 granulose. The sutures are linear and not grooved or impressed. This spe- 

 cies is similar to P. calyculatns of Hall, but may be at once distinguished by 

 its sutures not being excavated, and by its much more slender arms, which 

 are composed of elongate, instead of shoi-t wedge-formed pieces. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth. 



PoTERiocRiNUs cARiNATUs. — Body Small, basin-shaped or rather rapidly 

 spreading below the arms. Base very small, having the form of a pentagonal 

 star, the angles of which project but slightly beyond the column. Subradial 

 pieces small, about as wide as long, four of them hexagonal, (the form of the 

 one on the anal side is not distinctly visible in the specimen examined ;) all 

 rather prominent, and provided with a vertical carina near the upper angle. 

 First radial pieces about twice as large as the subradials, as wide again as 

 high, and pentagonal in form, the upper side being truncated, and longer than 

 either of the others. Second radials slightly larger than the first, wider than 

 high, quadrangular, and a little constricted around the middle. 



Third radials about the size of the first, pentagonal in form, and like the 

 second slightly constricted, the upper angles being rather salient. The anal 

 plates are not all preserved in the specimen before us, though we can see that 

 the first or subanal piece is of moderate size, pentagonal in form, and extends 

 so far down between two of the subradials, as to connect (apparently) by a 

 very short side, with the produced extremity of one of the basal pieces. Its 

 right superior sloping side supports one edge of a first radial above, and it 

 evidently supported another piece on its superior truncated edge, while it 

 connects on the left with another resting on the upper truncated side of one 

 of the subradials. 



After the first division of the third radials some of the arms bifurcate again 

 on the fifth, sixth or seventh piece, while others seem to be simple. They 

 are all composed of pieces which are a little constricted around the middle, 

 as long as wide, and alternately longer and shorter on opposite sides, the 

 upper extremity of the longer side of each being a little projecting for the re- 

 ception of the tentacles, so as to give a zigzag appearance to the arms. The 

 tentacles are large, and composed of rather long joints. Owing to the length 

 of the arm pieces, and the fact that only every alternate piece on the same 

 side supports a tentacle, they are very widely separated and alternately ar- 

 ranged. 



The surface seems to be granulose, and each ray is provided with a distinct 

 linear carina, commencing on the middle of each first radial piece and extend- 



1861.] 




140 PROCKEBINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ing up along eaoh division of the arms to tlioir extremities. The sntnres be- 

 tween the primary radials se«m to be a little gaping, as in Scnpkiocrinus, to 

 which tlie species appears to bem- some relations in other respects. The anal 

 side of the specimen being imperfect, we are left in some doubts in regard to 

 the generic characters of this species. In some respects it seems to agre* 

 more nearly with Ciiathocrinus than Poteriocrinus, though it evidently pos- 

 sessed more anal pieces than occur in the latter genus. The carinated char- 

 acter of its arms and primary radial pieces is a peculiarity that will readily 

 distinguish it from any other species with which we are acquainted. 



LocaliUj and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Mr. 

 Charles Wachsmuth's collection. 



Subg3nus SCAPHIOCRINUS, Hall, 1858. 



PoTERiocRixus (ScAPHiocRiNus?) CARBONARUTS. — Body Small, depgessfd or 

 basin-shaped below the summit of the subradial plates, rounded and concave 

 below, composed of thick, convex, smooth plates, which are connected by 

 distinctly impressed sutures. Base SJiiall, concave, and pentagonal in out- 

 line. Subradial plates a little longer than wide, directed obliquely outwards 

 from the base, and curving upwards at the extremities ; all pi»ntagonal, ex- 

 cepting one on the anal side, which is a little truncated at the upper extremity 

 for the reception of one of the anal pieces ; upper angle of each rather salient. 

 First radials nearlv twice as large as the subradial pieces, wider than long, 

 pentagonal, or subheptagonal, the upper side being tiuncated, and concave 

 on its outer slope. Second radial pieces nearly twice as long as wide, pent- 

 agonal in outline, rounded on the outer side, and distinctly constricted around 

 the middle; supporting the first division of the arms on their superior sloping 

 sides. 



We are in some doubt in regard to the generic relations of this species, not 

 having seen the arrangement of its anal pieces. It agrees with Prof. Hall's 

 subgenus Scaphiocrinus in the elongated and constricted form of its second 

 radial pieces, as well as in having the sutures between these pieces and the 

 first radial plates widely gaping. It differ.s, however, from the typical forms 

 of that group in having a concave base. It also seems to differ from Scnphio- 

 crinus, as well as the typical forms of Poteriocrinus in apparently having be- 

 tween the second radials small interradial pieces, yet we are not sure the 

 pieces seen occupying the interradial spaces may not be fragments of the arms 

 that have accidentally been placed in this position. We suspect, however, it 

 may belong to an undescribed genus, but prefer to place it in the genus Poterio- 

 crinus, until we can see better specimens. 



Localiti/ and position. Near Springfield, 111. Coal Measures. 



Poteriocrinus (Scaphiocrinus) solidus. — Body small but strong, calycnlata 

 or inversely bell-shaped below the top of the first radial plates ; sides expand- 

 ing rather gradually, with a slightly convex outline to near the middle of the 

 first radial plates, above which they curve a little outwards. Ba-e depressed, 

 spreading from the summit of the column ; pentagonal in outline, each piece 

 showing a rather short pentagonal face above the column. Subradials about 

 as wide as long, three hexagonal and two heptagonal. First radial plates 

 nearly twice as large as the subradials, wider than long, and pentagonal 

 in form, the upper side being transversely truncated and a little concave ; se- 

 cond radial plate narrower than the fiist, longer than wide, pentagonal in 

 form, (excepting in the anterior ray, which is simple,) and distinctly con- 

 stricted around the middle. 



First anal (or subanal) plate pentagonal, and resting between the npper 

 sloping sides of two of the subradial plates ; connecting on the left with an- 

 other, which rests upon the snpeiior truncated side of a subradial. The 

 upper truncated extremity of the first anal or subanal plate supports a third 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



piece, wTiich extends nparly half its length above the first radial on its right. 

 The arms above the first division on the second radial plates are strong, angu- 

 lar on the outer side, and (excepting in the anterior ray) bifurcate again on 

 the sixth or eighth plate, beyond which they are simple, as far as they can be 

 traced in the specimen under description. They are each co'uposed of a single 

 series of pieces, which are as long as wide, or somewhat longer, a little wedge- 

 shaped, and alternately prominent or subnodose on opposite sides, so as to 

 give the arms a somewhat zigzag appearance. The surface is finely granu- 

 lose ; and while the sutures are scarcely visible between the body plates, 

 those between the first and second radials are distinctly gaping. 



Localitii and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Mr. 

 Charles Wachsmuth's collection. 



PoTERiocRixus (ScAPHiocRiNiTs) Wachsmuthi. — Body Small, inversely bell- 

 shaped below the summit of the first radial plates, wider than high. Base 

 small, scarcf'ly visiljle in a side view, and extending a little beyond the sum- 

 mit of the column, which is round and composed of rather thin segments near 

 the body. Subradial plates as wide as high, convex, four hexagonal and one 

 lieptagonal. First radial plates from one-third to one-half larger than thesub- 

 radials, wider than long, truncated above and pentagonal in form, the upper 

 side be:ng longer than the others. Second radial pieces somewhat larger than 

 the first, distinctly constricted around the middle, abont as long as wide, and 

 pentagonal in outline, the upper siiperior angle being rather acute. First anal 

 plate larger than the subradials, hexagonal in form, resting upon tli-e truc- 

 cated upper side of one of the subradial pieces, and projecting neaily half its 

 length above the first radial plates on each side of it. The arms, after the 

 division on the second radial pieces, appear to be simple, very long, and gra- 

 dnally tapering. They are each composed of a single series of joints, all of 

 which are longer than wide, somewhat constricted around the middle, and 

 alternately longer and shorter on opposite sides, the upper extremity of tht; 

 longer side of each projecting out for the reception of the tentacles, so as to 

 give the arms a zigzag appearance. The tentacles are strong and cnmposed of 

 joints which are two or three times as long as wide, and distinctly grooved on 

 the inner side. 



The surface is granulosa, and the sutures well defined ; while at each cor- 

 ner of the subradial plates there is a deep round pit or depression. This spe- 

 cies seems to be related to S. spino-brachlatus of Hall, but diflers in the form 

 of its body, and in having longer arm pieces, which are also without spines. 

 It has remarkably long arms, and a neat symmetrical bell-shaped body below 

 the first radials. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth. 



BLASTOIDEA. 



Genus PENTREMITES, Say, 1820. 



Pkntremites cornutus. — Body under medium size, subglobose, broader 

 than high, the widest part being at the middle ; upper and lower extremities 

 truncated. Base deeply concave, and entirely within the concavity of the 

 under side. Radial pieces long, or extending from the base of the body to 

 near the summit ; narrow, somewhat contracted above and below, and divided 

 by thf^ pseuilo-ambulacral areas nearly four-fifths their entire length ; all 

 very thick and rising into prominent carinae on each side of the pseudo-ambu- 

 lacral fields. Interradial pieces of moderate size, and each projecting out in 

 the form of a very prominent, compressed horn-like process. Pseudo-ambula- 

 cral areas very narrow, or lance-linear, and deeply implanted bi-twren th^- 

 very prominent, carinated forks of the radial plates. (Summit unknown.) 



Height 0-45 inch, breadth 0-54 inch ; greatest breadth of radial pieces, 0-2(t 

 inch ; breadth of pseudo-ambulacral areas, 0*04 inch. 



This species will be readily distinsuished from all the others yet known by 

 1861.J 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



its prominent horn-like interradial pieces, and its strongly carinated radial 

 plates. These carinse are so prominent and regular, as to give the hody 

 the appearance of being divided into ten sharply angular ridges, or lobes, 

 extending from near the summit to the base, the intervening depressions at 

 the sutures, and those containing the pseudo-ambulaoral fields being about 

 equal. 

 Locality and position. Dry Fork, Brown Co., Ills. St. Louis Limestone. 



Pentremites melo, var. projectcs. — This Pentremite agrees with P. mdo of 

 Owen and Shumard, excepting that its base is proportionally a little larger, 

 and instead of being concave, projects so as to be distinctly visible in a side 

 view. Its pseudo-ambulacral areas are also not continued down quite so near 

 the base of the radial pieces as in P. melo. It may be a distinct species, but 

 the difference seems to be scarcely of specific importance. 



Both of these forms difi"er from the typical species of the genus Pentremites, 

 in having each pair of ovarian openings distinctly separated, instead of closely 

 united with merely a thin septum between. In this character, as well as in 

 form, and the prolongation of the pseudo-ambulacral areas, they agree with 

 the genus iV^uc/eocr('n(t5 of Conrad, (=Eleaciinus, Roemer, ) from which they dif- 

 fer in having the anal and oral openings distinct as in the true Pentremites. 

 They constitute a sub-genus of Pentremites, occupying a position between the 

 typical forms of that genus and Nucleocrinus. 



Locality and position. Burlington, Iowa. Burlington Limestone. Collec- 

 tion of Mr. Charles Wachsmuth. 



ASTER WE A. 



Genus Petraster, Billings, 1858. 



Petraster Wilberanus. — This beautiful star- fish resembles rather closely 

 Petraster rigidus of Billings, (Decade III. Org. Rem. Canada, plate ix. fig. 3*,) 

 but is smaller, and has more slender rays, with more angular spaces between. 

 It also difi"ers in having but two ranges of plates on each side of the ambula- 

 cral grooves, on the under side, instead of three. These pieces are about of 

 the same size in each row, and sometimes appear to alternate ; they are all 

 rather prominent, and those of the outer range project a little laterally in the 

 form of small nodes. Towards the outer extremities of the rays, however, 

 the lateral ranges are contracted behind the others, so as to be scarcely visi- 

 ble from below. About 23 of these pieces may be counted on each side of the 

 ambulacral furrow in each ray. The ambulacral furrows ar<i very narrow, 

 and indeed seem to be closed towards the extremities of the rays, by the gra- 

 dual approximation of the inner rows of pieces on each side, which alternate 

 and appear to fit together. 



Our specimen only shows the under side, but along the outer margins of 

 two of the rays, there is some appearance either of the overlapping of some of 

 the dorsal parts by pressure, or of a slightly developed disk. This part does 

 not seem to have any distinct range of marginal plates, but appears to be made 

 up of small pieces, covered with granules, or bases of small spines. 



We take pleasure in dedicating this interesting species to Prof. C. D.Wilber, 

 of the Illinois State Normal School, to whom we are indebted for the use of 

 the only specimen we have seen. 



Greatest diameter about 1 inch ; smaller diameter 0*33 inch. 



Locality and position. Oswego, Kendall Co., III., in rocks of the age of the 

 Trenton or Hudson River Group of the N. Y. series. 



MOLLUSCA. 

 BRACmOPODA. 

 Genus PRODUCTUS, Sowerby, 1812. 

 Pkodoctps magsus.— Shell large, semi-oval, or sub-hemispherical in outline ; 



[Juce 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 148 



ventral valve gibbous, with a moderately sliallow sinus, whicb usually be- 

 comes obsolete on the posterior part of the shell, before reaching the beak. 

 Cardinal line scarcely as long as the entire width of the shell. Auriculate 

 expansions moderately developed, and ornamented with a row of short spines, 

 extending from the beak to the lateral angles, while there are indications of 

 similar spines, scattered at irregular intervals upon the lateral borders and 

 front of the shell. Dorsal valve concave, fiat on the central and pos- 

 terior portions of the shell, with a slightly rounded elevation, which corres- 

 ponds to the sinus in the ventral valve. Surface of both valves ornamented 

 with rather coai-se rounded striae, which increase by intercalation and bifurca- 

 tion, and are about as wide as, or a little wider than, the spaces between them. 

 These strise are more tortuous and irregular upon the dorsal than on the ven- 

 tral valve. Beak short, depressed, and extending but little beyond the car- 

 dinal border. 



Lensth of an average sized specimen 3'75 inches, width 4-25 inches, height 

 1-50 inch. 



This is the largest Prodnctiis known to us in the rocks of this country, and 

 may ]>e distinguished from the large varieties of P. semirettculatus, which it 

 most nearly resembles, by its shorter and less elevated beak, as well as by the 

 arrangement of the spines upon its surface, and by well marked internal dif- 

 ferences whicli can only be explained by the aid of figures. It has heretofore 

 been referred to the European P. giijanteus (Martin,) but Mr. Thos. Davidson, 

 to whom we sent specimens, has decided that it is not identical with that 

 species. 



Locality and position. Monroe County, 111., and St. Genevieve County, Mo., 

 in the Keokuk Limestone. 



Spirifeka glabra, var. coxtkacta. — Shell rather under medium size, quad- 

 ra to-subcircular in outline, becoming moderately gibbous with age ; length 

 and breadth nearly equal, sides rounded ; hinge short or scarcely equalling 

 half the breadth of the valves near the middle. Dorsal valve much more 

 '-•ompressed than the other, most convex along the middle from near the 

 beak to the front, and sloping towards the sides ; hinge margin truncated ; 

 beak very small, scarcely projecting beyond the hinge line, slightly incurved ; 

 area narrow. Dorsal valve gibbous, provided with a narrow, shallow sinus, 

 commencing near the middle, and widening to the front, which is a little 

 produced to fill a shallow sub-semicircular sinus in the anterior margin of the 

 opposite valve ; beak prominent, incurved, and rather pointed at the ex- 

 tremity ; area very much contracted, triangular, more or less arched, and 

 very obscurely defined ; foramen rather large, or occupying near three- 

 fourths of the small area, having nearly the form of an equilateral triangle, 

 and apparently open to the beak. Surface nearly smooth, or only having ob- 

 scure marks of growth, and sometimes showing, by the aid of a lens, faint 

 traces of fine radiating stri.-e. 



Length of largest specimen, 0-86 inch ; breadth 0-90 inch; convexity 0*58 

 inch; length of hinge 0'45 inch. 



This shell agrees so nearly with some varieties of Spirifera glabra, Martin, 

 (sp.), tliat we have not been able to fully satisfy ourselves that it is spe- 

 cifically distinct, though we strongly suspect that it will prove to be so. In 

 form it is almost exactly like Mr. Davidson's fig. 33, pi. 1*, in his Monograph 

 of the Carboniferous Brachiopoda of Scotland, representing a rather small 

 specimen of Martin's species. It differs, however, from this, and all the varie- 

 ties of S. glabra we have seen figured, in having a much smaller, and more 

 obscurely defined ventral area. Indeed the sides of the beak of its ventral 

 valve round in so regulai'ly to the foramen, that it is often difficult to see 

 where the margin of the area is. As this character is persistent in the five 

 specimens of different ages that we have seen, we should not hesitate to con- 



18G1.] 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sider our sliell distinct from S. glabra, were tliat species not known to be so 

 extremely variable. 



Lociiflti/ nn I j>osition. Chester and Pope Counties, Illinois. Chester Lime- 

 stont* of the Lower Carboniferous series. 



LAMELLIBRANCniA TA. 



Genus CARDIOPSIS, M. & W. 

 {Cardium and o^/r, from its resemblance to Cardium.) 



Shell equivalve, somewhat inequilateral, very slightly oblique, ovate or 

 cordiform, entirely closed; beaks rather elevated, distinctly iucurved, and 

 directed towards the anterior side ; surfice marked by radiating strije or costse; 

 cardinal margin short, and rounding into the posterior border ; hinge pro- 

 vided witli one or two distinct anterior teeth in each valve, near the beaks. 

 (Ligament and muscular impressions unknown.) 



In first describing the species we regard as the type of this genus, we placed 

 it provisionally in the genus Cardiouioipha of De Koninck, stating at the same 

 time that we suspected it to be generically distinct.* Prof. Hall has since 

 "Wiscribed the same species from the same locality, in the Thirteenth Annual 

 lU^port of tlie Regents of the University of New York, under the name of 

 Ma^amhon'n L>/oni, and mentions the presence of two strong anterior teeth in 

 the hinge of one valve. On clearing away the matrix from the hinge of one 

 of our specimens, we have been able to see impressions of these teeth, the 

 presence of which establishes, we tliink, the correctness of our suggestion, 

 that it does not properly belong to the genus Curdiomorpha. 



It is not improbable some of the species ranged by Piof. Koninck in his 

 genus, (when all their characters can be ma le out,) may be found congener- 

 ous with our shell ; though it is manifest those he considered the typical spe- 

 cies are not, since he distinctly states that tlm hinge is without teeth, and 

 provided with a smooth lamina from the beaks to the posterior extremity, as 

 .some of his figures show. In additi n to this, all the species described by 

 him, (witli one single exception, which is a transverse shell, and apparently 

 a wide departure from his typical species, as well as from ours,) are merely 

 marked by concentric strise, and show no traces of the regular radiating costje 

 seen on our shell. 



Prof. Hall has described another species of this group, from near the same 

 horizon, under the n:ime of Cardiomorplia ovata, (non C. ovala DeOrbigny,) in 

 the Iowa Report, vol. i. part ii. p. 522. The radiated surface and general 

 appearance of these species give them someu hat the aspect of some species of 

 Ambonychla of Hall. They differ, however, from that group, in having no 

 posterior hinge teeth, and in being d'Stitute of a hinge area, as well as in 

 having a shorter, and less straightened hinj;e. They have scarcely any rela- 

 tions to Prof. Flail's genus Mei/ainlion'a, which is founded on his Ptcrinea? 

 cardifonnis, of the Corniferous Limestone, and belonging apparently to ft 

 different family. 



aenus LEDA, Schumacher, 1817. 



Lbda. corta, — Shell small, ovate, rather gibbous in the central and umbonal 

 regions ; anterior side abruptly rounded, tlie most prominent point being at 

 the middle ; base semi-ovate, more prominent in the antero-ventral region 

 than behind ; posterior side abruptly contractt^d, so as to become sul^angular 

 at the extremity, beaks elevated, incurved, and nearly central ; dorsal out- 

 line declining rather rapidly from the beaks, the anterior slope being convex, 

 and the posterior slightly concave, posterior umbonal slopes prominently 



* Cardiomorpha radiata, M. & W., Pioceed. Acad. J\at Sci., Phila. Oct. 1860. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



rounded, or subangular from the beaks to the narrow anal extremity. Sur- 

 face ornamented by very regular, closely arranged concentric strife, about ten 

 of which may be counted in 0'05 of an inch. (Hinge and interior unknown.) 

 Locality and position. Waterloo, Monroe Co., 111. St. Louis Limestone. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Genus DENTALIUM, Lin. 1740. 



Dentalium venustum. — Shell very slender, and slightly tapering, nearly 

 straight, rather thin ; section circular, surface smooth. 



Length, 0-80 inch ; diameter of larger end, 0-09 inch ; do. at smaller end, 

 0-03 inch. 



It is probable where the surface of this shell is well preserved, very fine 

 striae of growth could be seen by the aid of a lens, but in all of those we have 

 examined, no traces of surface markings of any kind are visible. It seems 

 to be allied to D. antiquum, of Goldfuss, (a Devonian species, ) but is propor- 

 tionally thinner, and has a smooth surface. From D. priscum of Munster, it 

 differs in being much more slender and more gradually tapering. We have 

 before us a few fragments of apparently the same species, but of larger size, 

 from Spergen Hill, Ind., where they are associated with the small fossils de- 

 scribed by Prof. Hall from that locality. Prof. H. has described in the Iowa 

 Report, (p. 666,) a larger, more robust, and more curved species, from War- 

 saw, 111., under the name of D, primarium, and gives the Warsaw Limestone 

 as its geological horizon. This, however, is an error, the specimen described 

 by Prof. Hall, belongs to one of us, (A. H. W.), and is from the Keokuk Lime- 

 stone, near Warsaw, Illinois. 



Locality and position. Waterloo, Monroe County, 111. St. Louis Lime- 

 atone. 



Genus STRAPAROLLUS, Montfort, 1810. 



Straparollus siMiLis. — Shell very small, sub-discoidal ; spire much depres- 

 sed, volutions four and a half to five, increasing rather gradually in size, hori- 

 zontally flattened above from the suture to a moderately distinct revolving 

 angle near the middle of the upper side, thence a little compressed on the 

 upper outer slope, and rather narrowly rounder over the periphery ; under 

 side of last turn rounded, excepting in the middle, where there is an obtuse, 

 but well defined revolving angle. Umbilicus (measuring across from its mar- 

 ginal angle on the middle of the body whorl,) once and a half the breadth of 

 the last turn at the aperture, deep, and showing the inner side of all the 

 whorls of the spire ; suture well defined. Aperture subcircular, or a little 

 modified by the succeeding turn, and the flattening on the upper side of the 

 whorls ; lip not oblique. Surface marked by rather obscure lines of 

 growth. 



Height (of a medium sized specimen) 0-18 inch; breadth, 0*31 inch; dia- 

 meter of aperture, O'OS inch. 



This delicate little shell seems to be almost an exact miniature of our S. 

 planodorsatus, excepting that its spire is a little more elevated, its periphery 

 slightly less regularly rounded, and its umbilicus proportionally smaller. It 

 appears to stand as it were intermediate between that species and our S. um- 

 bilicatus, being more elevated than the first and less than the last. It is cer- 

 tainly not the young of either of these forms, however, since the largest of our 

 specimens never attain more than one-tenth the size of those shells, and yet 

 have the same number of whorls. 



We have before us specimens of a very closely allied form from Spergen 

 Hill, Indiana, which agree exactly in size and form, excepting that the angles 



1861.] U 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of the whorls are less .distinct, and the flattening of the upper side of the 

 whorls is not quite so broad. These, we think, probably belong to the species 

 under consideration, as they diifer from any of those described by Prof. Hall 

 from that locality, resembling them in other respects, in having a smaller 

 umbilicus, more rapidly enlarging whorls, and a more elevated spire. , 

 Locality and position. Waterloo, Monroe Co., Ills. St. Louis Limestone. 



Strapakollus similis, var. planus. — This form differs from the last in having 

 its spire completely flattened so as to be upon a level with the last turn, and 

 in having a slightly larger umbilicus ; while the angle on the under side of 

 the body whorl is a little farther out from tlie umbilical side. The flattened 

 space on the upper side of its whorls also difl'ers in sloping inwards instead of 

 being horizontal ; and its suture seems to be more distinct. Notwithstand- 

 ing these differences, these forms agree so very nearly in size and other re- 

 spects, that we do not feel quite warranted in regarding them as distinct 

 species. Should it be thought necessary, however, to separate them specific- 

 ally, the form under consideration can take as a specific name that by which 

 we have designated it as a variety. 



It is an intei'esting fact that these two forms taken together, present an 

 exact miniature representation of the two varieties of S.pentangulatus (Sower- 

 by's sp.) The fact, however, that the shells under consideration present all 

 the appearance of mature growth, and never attain more than one-twentieth 

 the size of S. pentangulattts, while they have only two or three whorls less, is, 

 we think, sufficient reason for regarding them as distinct. 



Localiti] and position. Same as last. 



Genus ORTHONEMA, M. & W. 

 (Etym. — opQo;, straight ; vn/ua, thread.) 



Shell elongate, many whorled ; volutions ornamented with revolving carinfe, 

 crossed by nearly straight lines of growth ; body whorl not produced below ; 

 aperture angular above, slightly effuse below ; peristome incomplete ; lip 

 simple, nearly straight; axis imperforate. 



The shell upon which we propose to found this genus, has much the appear- 

 ance of a Murchisonia, but differs in being entirely destitute of a spiral band, 

 or a sinus in the lip as in that genus and Pleurotomaria, the lines of growth 

 being distinctly seen crossing the carinse, and the spaces between, without 

 making the slighest curve. In first indicating the typical species of this 

 e.&n\i?,, {Eunema Salteri, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Oct. I860,) we referred 

 it, with a query, to Mr. Salter's genus Ennema ; later comparisons, however,have 

 satisfied us that it cannot properly be placed in that group, since it does 

 not possess the peculiar sigmoid lijj characterizing the forms described by 

 Mr. Salter. It also differs in having its whorls closely contiguous at all stages 

 of growth ; while its inner lip is less developed, and its columella is not pro- 

 vided with a ridge or angle as in the typical species of Eunema. 



From the genirs Turritella, some species of which our shell resembles in 

 form and general appearance, it difl'ers in its slightly effuse and less rounded 

 aperture, disconnected peristome, and straight outer lip. It is probably more 

 nearly allied to Loxonema, than to any of the groups we have mentioned, but 

 presents the well marked difl'erence of being provided with distinct revolving 

 carinae, and a straight, instead of a sigmoid outer lip. It will probably in- 

 clude several species of Turritella-W^e shells from the Coal Measures. 



Genus LOXONEMA, Phillips, 1841. 



Loxonema MULTicosTATA. — Shell Small, conical; spire moderately elevated ; 

 volutions about seven and a half, somewhat convex, increasing gradually in 



[June. 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



size ; last one forming about one-third the entire length, rounded, not mucli 

 produced below ; suture well defined ; aperture oval subrhonibic, slightly 

 eS'use on the inner side below ; outer lip thin, and nearly straight ; inner lip 

 a little retlexed. Surface ornamented by small, regular, straight, vertical 

 folds or costas, about equalling the spaces between, and numbering near thirty 

 on the body whorl. Costte obsolete on the under si(fe of the last turn ; no 

 lines of growth visible under a lens. 



Length, 0'36 inch ; breadth, 0-15 inch ; apical angle nearly regular, diver- 

 gence about 28". 



Locality and position. Hodges Creek, Macoupin Co., ID. Coal Measures. 



CEPHALOPODA. 

 Genus ORTHOCERAS, Breynius, 1732. 



Orthoceras ANXULO-COSTAT0M. — Shell attaining a medium size, and having 

 the form of an elongated, moderately compressed cone, the sides of which 

 converge towards tlie apex at an angle of about 14°. Section elliptical, the 

 greater transverse diameter being to the smaller, as 100 to 80. Surface or- 

 namented with slightly oblique, annular costaj, which are less than the de- 

 pressions between, and rather sharply elevated on the smaller half of the 

 shell, but become gradually obsolete towards the aperture, where they are no 

 more widely separated than near the smaller end. Traces of fine transverse 

 striae are also seen on well preserved specimens, both between and upon the 

 costse. (Septa and siphuncle unknown.) 



The largest specimen we have seen is about five inches in length, (both ex- 

 tremities being incomplete,) and 1-83 inches in its greater diameter at the 

 larger end, while the greater diameter at the smaller end is near 0*70 inch. 



This species bears some resemblance to 0. dactylio-phorum of De Kouinck, 

 (An. Fos. Ter. Carb. Belg. p. 518, PI. XVII. fig. 1 A, and XVIII. fig. 7, a, b,) 

 but differ in being more tapering and somewhat compressed instead of round. 



Locality and position. Chester, 111. Chester Limestone. 



Genus NAUTILUS, Breynius, 1732. 

 Subgenus Trematodiscus, M. & W. 



(T(S)i/xa and J'js-xsc,) in allusion to the perforated umbilicus, and the discoid 

 form of the shell in the typical species. 



We propose to range under the above subgeneric name, a peculiar group of 

 Nautili, which difi'er so materially from the living typical species of Nuutilus, 

 that few Conchologists would place them even in the same genus, if they 

 were found inhabiting our present seas. These shells are characterized by a 

 discoid form and a wide shallow umbilicus, usually, if not always, perforated 

 in the middle. Their whorls are slender, very slightly embracing or merely in 

 contact, and provided with revolving angles and grooves, while the surface is 

 frequently ornamented with revolving striae. The siphuncle is central, or 

 located between the middle and the dorsal side, though never quite marginal. 



In first publishing descriptions of some of the forms included in this sub- 

 genus, we proposed to retain for it Prof. King's abandoned name, Discus. As 

 this name had, however, been previously used by Fitzinger (in 1833) for a 

 group of Helicidse, and by Prof. Haldeman (in 1840) for a group of Limnat- 

 idce, it becomes necessary to introduce a new name for the group under consid- 

 eration. 



Although in some respects analogous to Discites of McCoy, these shells differ 



1861.] 




143 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



from the typical forms of that group, in having a perforated umhilictis ; while 

 their whorls are less compressed laterally, more slender, and provided with seve- 

 ral distinct revolving angles and grooves. They also differ in being often or- 

 namented with well defined longitudinal lines. 



This group appears to be mainly, if not exclusively, confined to the Car- 

 boniferous system, and will include in addition to our N. digonus and N. tri- 

 snlcutus, the following foreign species : Nautihis stigalis, N. Edwardsianus, and 

 N. Omalianns of Koninck, together withiV. sulcatus, N. pinguis and N. carini- 

 formis of Sowerby. 



We believe all such fossil shells will some time be separated entirely from 

 the genus Nautilus. 



Note. — Our recent investigations enable us to make the following corrections 

 in regard to a few of the fossils described in our papers of September and Octo- 

 ber, 1860: 



1. Cyathocrinus scitulus (Sept. 1860). In comparing this species with those 

 described by Prof. Hall, in the supplement to the Iowa Report, we overlooked 

 its probable identity with his C. sculptilus. The fact that he had described 

 the first anal plate of C. sculptilus as being "nearly as large as the subradials 

 [and] heptagonal " in form, led us to regard our crinoid as a distinct species, 

 and it was not until our description was in print, that a more careful exami- 

 nation of his diagram on page 60, satisfied us that he had inadvertently de- 

 scribed one of the subradial plates as the first anal piece. When this correc- 

 tion is made in his description, it agrees so nearly with our crinoid, that wa 

 have scarcely a doubt in regard to its identity with his species ; and as his 

 name was first published, it will have to take precedence. 



2. Platyostoma nana, (Oct. 1860). Better specimens show this to be a true 

 Naticopsix. 



3. Eulimn peracuta, (Oct. 1860), should be ranged under Poltfphemopsis, of 

 Portlock, probably a section of the genus Loxoncma. 



4. Orthoceras expansitm, (Oct. 1860), belongs to the genus or subgenus Ac- 

 tinoceras. 



5. Ci/rtoceras curtum, (Oct. 1860), should be ranged under the subgenus 

 Aploceras. 



Descriptions of New Fossil Mollusca, from the Cretaceous Formation at Had- 

 donfield. New Jersey. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



In December, 1858, I published, in connection with Prof. Leidy and W. Par- 

 ker Foulke, Esq., in the Proceedings of the Academy, some account of the 

 Green Sand Formation at Haddonfield, New Jersey. I then gave reasons for 

 believing that this interesting and extensive deposit — which my late learned 

 friend, Professor Vanuxem, was the first to place on its true horizon, in relation 

 to the well known Cretaceous deposits of Europe — might be the analogue of the 

 '■'■Etage Ccnommiirn " of D'Orbigny. The object being, then, simply to make 

 out some of its relations, its extent so far as known, and its true position in 

 relation to our Cretaceous Formation, I gave only a list of genera of the Molhtsca, 

 found by Mr. Foulke and myself. I now give a complete list of all the species 

 we then discovered, and I add descriptions of the few species which had not 

 heretofore been observed. It will at once be recognized by those who have 

 studied the Cretaceous masses of the United States, that there is a very strong 

 similarity, if not identity, of this deposit at Haddonfield, with that of the 

 '■ Bipley Group " in Mississippi, from which Mr. Conrad and Mr. Gabb have 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 149 



described and illustrated many species in the Journal of the Academy in 1858 

 and 1860. It may also be observed, by reference to the valuable memoir pub- 

 lished by Prof. Hall and Mr. Meek in the Memoirs of the American Academy 

 of Arts and Sciences, June, 1854, that the same geological masses exist in 

 Nebraska, some of the species being identical. A fine suite of specimens of these 

 having been sent to the Academy by the kindness of that energetic naturalist 

 Dr. Spillman, the comparison may be easily made. 



CoRcuLA FouLKEi. — Tcsta lasvi, triangulari, inflata, postice acute angulata, 

 antice oblique rotundata, ajquilaterali. inferne paulisper striata ; valvulis cras- 

 siusculis ; natibus prominentibus, acuminatis, incurvatis, fere mediis. 



Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 



Length -22, breadth -33 of an inch. 



Remarks. — A single specimen only of this species was found at Haddonfield. 

 It was accompanied by two other species described by Mr. Gabb, viz. : C. snl- 

 compressa, from Tennessee, and C. crassiplicaUr^ on the Mississippi and Tennes- 

 see State line.* It is very distinct from the latter, but is closely allied to the 

 former. It may, however, at once be distinguished from it by the posterior 

 angle being more acute, and in having the basal margin less rounded. I have 

 great pleasure in naming this species after our fellow member, W. Parker 

 Foulke, Esq., who so liberally and intelligently opened this locality of Green 

 Sand Formation with the view of making discoveries in these deposits of fos- 

 sil bones, &c., in which he was so eminently successful, as I have formerly 

 stated, (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1858, p. 218.) 



MoDiOLA JuLiiE. — Testa transverse striata, subrhomboidea, subinflata, pos- 

 tice oblique truncata, inferne emarginata ; valvulis fragillissimis ; natibus 

 prominulis, fere terminalibus. 



My Cabinet and Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 



Length -23, breadth -36 of an inch. 



Remarks. — A single specimen only was found, and this consisted of an im- 

 perfect left valve. Being exceedingly thin and friable, it is impossible to re- 

 move it from the matrix of clay, where it exhibits only the interior, showing, 

 however, the transverse stri;e of the exterior. Roemer, in his " Kreide von 

 Texas," describes three species, but this species I believe is the first which 

 has been found in our Green Sand masses of New Jersey. Mr. Gabb has de- 

 scribed a species [ovata) from the Yellow Limestone of Timber Creek, N. Jersey, 

 and one (Saffordi) from the Ripley Group, in Tennessee, (Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 v. iv., n. s., p. 395). The species above described is nearest to Suff'ordi, being 

 nearly of the same size, but the outline is quite different, Juliet being subrhom- 

 hoidal, and Saffordi being gibbons. I name this species in honor of Mrs. W, 

 Parker Foulke, who took great interest, with her husband, in the develop- 

 ment of this interesting locality near to their country residence. 



DosiNiA Haddonfieldensis. — Testa subrotunda, lentiformi, compressa, sub- 

 a?quilaterali, excelissime concentrice striata; valvulis tenuibus; natibus promi- 

 nentibus, acuminatis, fere mediis. 



My Cabinet and Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Length -40, breadth -46 of an inch. 



Remarks. — Two imperfect specimens were ol:)taincd. Both with the two 

 valves, but neither perfect. The close, minute, impressed, concentric lines 

 are well preserved, but like all the mollusca found at this locality, the valves 

 are much fractured, while the juxtaposition of the pairs are maintained. It 

 is nearly of the same outline of D. depressa, Con., from Eufaula, Alabama, but 

 is more angular above and is not so large. 



1861.] 



* Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., new series, v. iv., p. 394. 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



List of Green Sanl Fossils found at Haddonfield, N. J., by Mr. Foulke and 



Mr. Lea. 



ACEPHALA. 



Area Eufaulensis, Gabb. 

 Area Satt'ordi, Gabb. 

 Astartc crenulirata, Con. 

 Astarte octolirata, Gabb. 

 Aaomia tellinoides ? Mart. 

 Auoniia argentaria, Mart. 

 Cardium multiradiatum, Gabb. 

 Cardium Eufauleuse, Con. 

 Cardita subquadrata, Gabb. 

 Corbula subcompressa, Gabb. 

 Corbula crassiplicata, Gabb. 

 Corbula Foulkei, Lea. 

 Orassatella liutea, Con. 

 Ctenoides crenulicosta, Ramer. 

 Dosinia depressa, Con. 

 Dosiiiia Iladdonfjeldensis, Lea. 

 Dentalium Eufaulensis, Gabb. 

 Exogyra eostata, Say. 

 Gervilia cnsiformis, Con. 

 luoeeramus involutus, Sow.* 

 Leda protexta, Gabb. 

 Leda loiigiirons, Con. 

 Linaria metastriata, Con. 

 Legumeu appressus, Con. 



Coprolite. — In this small coprolite 

 the genus Enchodus. 



Lcgumen ellipticus, Con. 



Modiola Julia^, Lea. 



Nueula percrassa, Con. 



Ostrea denticulifera, Con. 



Ostrea larva, Lam. = falcata, Mort. 



Ostrea plumosa, Mort. 



Ostrea teeticosta, Gabb. 



Pecten simplicius, Con. 



Pinna laqueata. Con. 



Siliquaria biplicata. Con. 



Tellina (Telliuimera) eborea, Con. 



Trigonia Eufaulensis, Gabb. 



Gasteropoda. 



Lunatia jialudiformis. 

 Turbonilla laqueata, Con. 

 Turritella vertcbroides, Mort. 

 Turritella Hardemaneusis, Gahb. 



Cephalopoda. 



Ammonites placenta, De Kay. 

 Scaphites iris, Con. = Conradi, Mort. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



Cidares armigera, Mort. 

 is the tooth of a ganoid fish, probably of 



The Academy proceeded to an election to fill the vacancy in the 

 Committee on Conchology, caused by the resignation of Dr. C. J. 

 Cleburne; and Mr. Geo. W. Tryon was chosen. 



The death of Mr. Geo. M. Keim, a member of the Academy, was 

 announced. 



JuJij 2d. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



Dr. Le Conte presented the following communication from Baron 

 Osten Sacken, on the sex of Cynipid^e : 



One of the most puzzling questions in Entomology is the total absence of the 

 male sex in some genera of Cynipida. Of the numerous species of the genus 

 Cynips proper, the females alone are known. Hartig, the monographist of 

 this family, has had the patience to collect about 28,000 galls of Cy}uj)s divisa, 

 to rear the flies from them and to examine, one by one, the 9 or 10,000 flies 



* Min. Conch. Tab. 4'12, The figure by Hall in Fremont's Report, p. 309, seems to 

 be the same with this from I laddoiitield. I\Ir. Hall supposes the specimen which came 

 from East of the Rocky Mountains, 105° long. 'dT lat., lo be the same with tiowerby's from 

 the Upper Chalk at Lewes, England. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



obtained in this way. All proved to be females. Similar investigations, which 

 he undertook with several thousands of specimens of different otlier species, 

 led to the same result. This total absence of one sex in tlie genera Cijnips, 

 Neurosterus, ApophyUus Hartig, appeared tlae more strange and unaccountable, 

 as in the closely allied genera Teras, Andricus, Trigonaspis, Sjmlhegaster, males 

 and females occurred in almost equal numbers. The supposition that the 

 males had escaped the investigations of entomologists seemed inadmissible in 

 the case of insects obtained mostly //-ow rearinc/ and not by means of catching. 

 This, combined with the circumstance that the presence or absence of the 

 males occurred constantly through whole genera and not merely in single 

 species, seemed to favor the belief that in some genera the males did not exist 

 at all. 



More than one hypothesis has been proposed for the solution of this anoma- 

 ly. Hartig, after having studied the anatomy of some Cynipidse, imagined 

 that he had discovered their being androgynous. Soon, however, he gave up 

 this conclusion and confessed his error. Erichson proposed another solution. 

 Those who have reared gall flies know that very frequently galls of the same 

 kind produce Ci/nlpirlcB of two different forms, one of tiiem being the true gall- 

 producing Cynips, (subfamily Psenules Hartig,) the other having been hitherto 

 considered as a parasite, (subfamily Inquilince.) The latter occur in male 

 and female specimens. Erichson suggested, not as a result of actual observa- 

 tion, but as a mere idea for future investigation, that the two forms, reared 

 from the same gall, however different in their characters, might be the same 

 species ; that the male inquilince were in reality the males of Cynips, and that 

 their females had to be considered as a second form of the gall-producing 

 female Cyn ps. He reminded that this would not be the only instance, among 

 insects, of the occurrence of two forms of females, the same being the case with 

 some butterflies and some Dijtisci. 



The hypothesis of a parthenogenesis among the Cynipidx has also been re- 

 sorted to, and Siebold discusses it in the latter part of his well-known pam- 

 phlet. 



If I have dwelt at some length on all these hypotheses, it was in order to 

 show the importance which is attached to this question and the degree of its 

 apparent inextricability, which lias compelled men of science to liave recourse 

 to such improbable and far-fetched explanations. 



Engaged since last autumn in the study of galls and gall-flies, I have hap- 

 pened quite recently to make an observation which would lead to a more 

 simple Solution of the vexed cjuestion. 



I discovered on the leaf of the red oak a very curious, elongated-fusiform, 

 petioiate, pale green gall, about an inch long, and, in its stoutest [lart, but a 

 little more than one-tenth of an inch broad. Having been lucky enough to 

 rear the insect from it, I was struck by its resemblance with Cynips conjiuens 

 Harris, the originator of the large, globular gall of the red oak, commonly 

 called oak apple. The specimen being a male, and the specimens of C. con- 

 fluenta which I have seen being all females, it struck me immediately that 

 this was the solution of the mystery. Male and female occur in galls of two 

 altogether different forms ! 



H' it is so, one might object, how does it happen that this observation has 

 never been made before ? Why did the German entomologists, having reared 

 so many, (I believe more than 150 gall-flies), never come across it ? The ex- 

 planation may be this : Generally the distinguishing characters of the species 

 of this family are so slight, that it would have been diflicult to assign a certain 

 male to a certain female without having reared tliem from the same gall. 

 Entomologists may have reared males from one gall and their females from 

 another, withovit suspecting their identity. If I succeeded better, it was merely 

 because I happened to make my observation on a species with very striking 

 characters, which were therefore easy to identify although the specimens were 

 18G1.] 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



obtained from another gall and diflfered, as males usually do, in size and color 

 from the females. 



Another, perhaps more serious objection, may be made. If the males of 

 the genera, hitherto thought agamous, exist, how does it happen that Hartig, 

 with the abundant material in his possession, did not have a single one of 

 them ; it seems that if he had had but one, he would not have pronounced 

 those genera agamous. To this I answer that he may have possessed males of 

 this description, but have located them in other genera. Hartig's classifica- 

 tion, in his paper on Cynipidx, is a mere outline, as he intended to publish 

 some time a more detailed monograph. This not having been done, the defi- 

 nitions of his genera, as they stand now, are altogether insufiicient, and in 

 most cases I have been unable to make them out. Still I can easily conceive 

 that he might have placed the female of C. confluens in one genus, and what 

 I take to be its male in another. 



However, be it as it may, the only material point in the present case is to 

 know whether the male which I reared from the spindle-shaped gall is spe- 

 cifically identical with the females obtained from the common oak-apple. 



My belief of their identity is based upon their exact similitude in everything 

 except those characters which usually distinguish the males from the females, 

 (as size, color, length and number of joints of the antenn;e). This similitude 

 alone would perhaps not be conclusive, if the characters of the species, as 

 already remarked, were not rather uncommon and sufficiently striking to 

 facilitate its immediate recognition. The thorax is deeply cribrose, two lon- 

 gitudinal, parallel, somewhat indistinct carinse begin at the collare, and stop 

 before the middle of the thorax ; two other carinse converge towards the scu- 

 tellum ; the scutellum is also deeply sculptured and has two fovese at the 

 basis ; the wings are conspicuous by a brown spot near the areolet and by 

 some peculiarities of the neuration ; the subcostal, for instance, becomes obso- 

 lete just before reaching the anterior margin, the veins surrounding the areo- 

 let have a peculiar shape, etc. All of which are exactly reproduced in the 

 male and female specimens in question. The male has 15, the female 13-jointed 

 antennae ; the former is smaller, more slender and much darker in color than 

 the latter. 



The supposition of the identity of these insects is finally strengthened by 

 their galls occurring on the same tree, the red oak, having been found in the 

 same localities, and the perfect insect being hatched at the same season. 



A glance at the specimens would, I have no doubt, convince any entomo- 

 logist, conversant with the Cynipidse, of their specific identity. JVot being 

 able, however, to convey a demonstration of the same force by means of a 

 mere description, and being sufficiently aware that a fact so novel and so ex- 

 traordinary as the production, by the sting of the same insect, of two alto- 

 gether difi'erent forms of galls, according to the sex of the egg or of the future 

 larva, cannot be admitted in science without further inquiry, lofi'er the above 

 statement as a mere suggestion for future research. 



July 9 th. 

 Vice President Vaux in the Chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Descriptions of certain species of Diurnal LepMoptera, found with- 

 in the limits of the United States and of British America," by Wra. H. 

 Edwards. 



"On Cyprinus corporalis, Mitchell, referring it to the genus Semo- 

 tilus, Rafinesque," by Charles C. Abbott. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 153 



July 2Bd. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Description of a new species of Pitta (Brachyurus) leucoptera," 

 by D. G. Elliot. 



" A Monograph of the Tringeae of North America," by Elliott Coues. 



"Notes on some genera of Fishes of the western coast of North 

 America/' by Theodore Gill. 



" On a new type of Aulostomatoids found in Washington Territory," 

 by Theodore Gill. 



" Descriptions of new Pteropine Bats from Africa," by Harrison 

 Allen, M. D. 



Dr. Slack called the attention of the Academy to a species of the family of 

 Lemuridae, obtained by Mr. P. B. Duchaillu in equatorial Africa, and named 

 by him Otolicnus apicalis, (Proo. Boston Soc. 1860.) The species was first 

 described by the late Maj. Le Conte, in the Proceedings of the Academy, 1857, 

 under the name of Microcebus elegantulus. Neither of these names are 

 proper. From the genus Microcebus it is readily distinguished by the form of 

 the head and the position of the inferior incisors, which in the specimen under 

 consideration are horizontal. The genus Otolicnus was founded by Illiger, 

 in his Prodromus, 1812, upon a wrong basis, viz., the absence of ears. The 

 ears of this genus are very thin, and are frequently broken in transportation ; 

 this is the case with the present specimen, though on its arrival at the Academy 

 a few years since they were perfect, and are described by Maj. Le Conte as 

 large and membranous. The proper name of the genus is Galago, given 

 it by St. Hilaire, in his "Memoire sur les rapports naturels des Makis," 

 1796. Maj. Le Conte's specific name, by the rule of priority, must be retained, 

 and the proper name of the species is therefore Galago elegantulus. Two 

 young specimens of the same species, obtained by Dr. Ford in the Gaboon 

 country some years since, were exhibited ; they vary somewhat from the 

 adult in coloration, but can readily be distinguished by the tip of the tail 

 being white, a character belonging to no other species of the genus. 



July BOth. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair, 



Twelve members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Description of a New Species of the Genus PITTA. 



BY D. G. ELLIOT. 



Pitta (Bbachyurus) leucoptera, Elliot. 



Viridis ; capite nigro castaneo maculato ; gula alba ; corpore subtus fulvo, 

 crisso dilute coccineo ; tectricibus alarum albis ; uropygio viridi-cyaneo, remi- 

 gibus nigris magna exparte albis ; cauda nigra apice caerulescente. Rostro 

 nigro apice brunneo ; pedibus pallescentibus. Juv. 



Hab itat. — Cpylon. 



1861.] 




154 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Young. Green. Head, back of neck and chin black, the first spotted with 

 chestnut, front chestnut. Throat white ; upper part of breast brown, lower 

 parts paler brpwn ; crissum very light scarlet ; wings green, shoulders covered 

 with large white spots, forming a broad band ; primaries black ; rump green- 

 ish blue, tail black, bordered with blue. Bill black, end horn color ; feet light 

 flesh color. 



Of this species I have only a young bird from which to take my description, 

 but it dilfers so greatly from the young of any species of this family, or even 

 from any adult which I have had an opportunity of examining, that I have 

 determined to give it a name, trusting that some future ornithologist, more 

 fortunate than myself, may be successful in discovering the adult. The great 

 peculiarity of this species is its white shoulders, which is a characteristic I 

 have never before witnessed among the Pittidse, that portion of the plumage 

 in these birds being almost invariably of different shades of blue ; and as in 

 the majority of the species of tliis family, the young bear the plumage of 

 the adult from the period of leaving the nest, I feel assured that the adult of 

 P. leucoptera would have a conspicuous white wing. 



The first primary is all black, the 21, 3d and 4tli have more or less white 

 on the lower half of both webs, while the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th are all 

 white, with the exception of the tips, which are black. 



I obtained my specimen from M. Parsaduki, of Paris, and upon the label is 

 only the word Ceylon, which I suppose is its native country. 



On CYPSINUS C0KP0EALI3 Mitch., referring it to the genus SEMOTILUS 



Rafiuesque. 



BY CHARLES C. ABBOTT. 



In the Delaware River, and in certain of its contiguous streams, there exists 

 a large and unusually brightly tinted Cyprinoid, that bears many and strong 

 resemblances to the Leucosomus pulchellus. Upon a more careful observation, 

 however, it becomes evident, from the want of barbels and the variance of the 

 pharyngeal teeth and bones, that the species is generically distinct. 



Dr. S. L. Mitchell first made known to ichthyologists the species under con- 

 sideration, giving to it the name Cyprinus corporalls, and stated it to inhabit 

 " the Hudson in the neighborhood of Albany, the Walkill through its whole 

 extent, and the western streams and lakes from Wood Creek to the Oneida 

 Lake, and so on." 



Dr. J. E. DeKay, in his work on the Fishes of New York, quotes the des- 

 cription of Mitchell, referring the species to the heterogeneous mass he enti- 

 tled Leuciscus ; stating at the termination of the quotation, " it has not yet 

 been my good fortune to meet with (this species.") 



Dr. Storer, in his "Synopsis of the Fishes of North America," quotes the 

 description of Mitchell, and the quotation of DeKay — , placing both, with 

 queries, as synonyms oi Leuciscus {Leucosomus) pulchellus, Storer. 



Messrs. Baird, Girard, Agassiz and Kirtland make no mention of the species, 

 from a want of specimens evidently, as the description of Mitchell, though 

 meagre in the extreme, mentions certain peculiarities by which the species 

 would be instantly recognized, should bona fide specimens be exhibited. 



The author is indebted to liis friend J. Walter Vroom, of Trenton, N. J., 

 for specimens of the species and the remarks upon its habits, quoted in this 

 paper. 



SeMOTILUS CORPORALIS, Abb. 



Syn. Cyprinus corporalis, Mitch., Amer. Mon. Mag. vol. 2, p. 324. 

 Leuciscus ? corporalis, DeKay, Fishes of New York, p. 213. 

 Leuciscus pulchellus ? Storer, Synop. Fishes of N. Amer. p. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



Head constitutes one-fourth of total length, exclusive of the caudal. Cheeks 

 and opercula flattened as far forwards as the angle of the jaws. Snout 

 bluntly rounded. Facial and dorsal outlines continuous, the former des- 

 cribing a more derided curve from a point opposite the anterior nostril. Mouth 

 medium ; cleft of jaws oblique. Maxillary bone extending to the anterior 

 margin of the eye. Angle of lips somewhat nearer the termination of the 

 maxillary bone than extremity of snout. Eye large, circular, prominent ; the 

 diameter of the orbit contained six (6) times in the length of the side of the 

 head. The lower margin of the orbit is on a line drawn from the edge of the 

 upper lip, when not protracted. Nostrils adjoining; tlie anterior superior in 

 position, inferior in size; both situated in an elongated oval depression, ex- 

 tending from the orbit to midway between orbit and extremity of snout. 



Body compressed, tapering to the tail, with the dorsal and ventral outlines 

 describing gentle and similar curves. Greatest depth of body is at a point 

 midway between occiput and anterior insertion of the dorsal, and is one-tenth 

 greater than the length of the head. Longitudinally and transversely the 

 diameters of the scales are nearly equal ; but the free portion of the scales 

 upon the sides exhibits a depth double the length ; upon the back the dispro- 

 portion is less, and still more so on the occipital region. Forty-five scales 

 compose the lateral line, which line describes a profound curve from its origin 

 to a point opposite the extremity of the pectoral fin ; during the continuation 

 of its extent it is perfectly straight, and midway between the dorsal and ven- 

 tral outlines. 



Dorsal fin small, quadrangular, the height one-third greater than the 

 width at the base ; the insertion of the anterior ray exactly midway between 

 the extremity of snout and insertion of caudal. Ventrals small at their in- 

 sertions ; the free margin of triple width. Pectorals large ; when closed slen- 

 der, falciform and pointed ; the third and longest ray nearly four times the 

 length of the basic extent of the fin ; when expanded, the fin describes an 

 uninterrupted curvature five times greater in extent than the btfse. Anal 

 quadrangular, with the anterior ray one-third longer than the base. Cau- 

 dal furco-luuate, with the distance between the tips equal to the length of the 

 head. 2 



D, 1—8. P, 16. V, 8. A, 8. C, 20 - 



2 

 Coloration. Occiput, forehead and upper jaw, deep olive green. Cheeks 

 and opercula bright vermillion, with metallic lustre. Eye lemon yellow, the 

 pupil being immediately surrounded with a narrow line of glistening golden. 

 Lower jaw white, the lip margined with vermillion. At the commencement 

 of squamation, from the insertion of one pectoral to the other, is a band of 

 olive-green, nearly the width of the scales. 



Back light, lustrous, steel-blue, with the base of the free margin of each 

 scal"^ with a narrow line of olive green. Three rows of scales above and two 

 below the lateral line, biight lustrous pink, with the lines of olive on the 

 scales decreasing in width on the two rows beneath the lateral line, and want- 

 ing on the scales of the belly, which are bright silvery. 



Dorsal fin vermillion on the basal half, the terminal half crossed by three 

 bands of green and vermillion, the centre being of the latter color. Pectorals 

 vermillion, with a broad terminal band of dusky green. Ventrals and anal 

 dusky. Caudal yellowish, with a terminal dusky band. 

 Total length of largest specimen procured, 15^ inches. 



No variation in the coloratioi- of the sex, except a more subdued tinting in 

 the female. 



With the exception of the formula of fin-rays, the description is in full ac- 

 cordance with the above, and as it cannot be applied to any other than the 

 above described fish, it may safely be assumed the fish in question and the 

 species described by Dr. Mitchell are one and the same. 

 1861.] 




156 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The remarks quoted below also coincide with the statement of Mitchell — 

 •'takes the hook, if baited with dough, when let down through holes in the 

 ice, at mid- winter." 



"This fish, so far as I am acquainted with it, frequents swift, clear and deep 

 water, often rising to the surface to catch grasshoppers, toads that have fallen 

 in the water, &c. This fish takes the bait more vigorously in cold than 

 warmer weather. The young are found, during the latter part of summer, in 

 Tery shallow water, generally frequenting stony banks ; at this time they are 

 exceedingly shy, and refuse a sinking bait, but would probably take the fly 

 of the trout-fisher. This fish is more numerous in the contiguous streams 

 than in the Delaware. " — J. Walltr Vroom. 



Note on Hypognatuus nitidcs, Gir. 



This species proves very abundant in many of the streams in the neighbor- 

 hood of Trenton, N. J. It in no manner differs from specimens taken from 

 Lake Champlain, the original locality. We suspect this to be the southern- 

 most extent of its geograpliical distribution, as the author has seen undoubted 

 specimens of //. rejius, Gir., taken in the Delaware, nineteen miles below 

 Trenton. 



It is generally found associated with Semotilus atromaculatus and Luxilus 

 Americamis, though it sometimes ajipears to be the sole representative of the 

 Cyprinoids in many streams of considerable extent, as indeed do both of the 

 other mentioned species. Its preference is decidedly for rapid water, as far 

 as we have observed, which is the ease with the former, but not with the 

 latter of the two above-mentioned species. 



Descriptions of new PTESOPINE BATS from Africa. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



Htpsionathus, n. g. — Head large, massive. Face greatly developed, ante- 

 rior portion humped. Nose very high, blunt, corrugated. Nostrils produced ; 

 opening laterally ; bounded internally and inferior ly by a projection of the 

 coriaceous membrane, which by its continuation externally forms a lateral 

 fold. This expansion, after descending from the posterior part of the nostril 

 to the lij), runs along the line of the tipper jaw, forming the outer wall of a 

 distinct groove, the inner wall of which is made by the ti-ue lip. Just as this 

 remarkable membrane turns down from the anterior nares, it also extends 

 forward, clearly defining the boundaries of the snout. From the lower ante- 

 rior part of each nostril a leathery ridge extends to the mouth. These divide 

 the muzzle into three distinct sulci. The chin is peltated, and indistinctly 

 divided into halves by a mesial line. Ears small, naked, without tragus and 

 tufted at base. Wings thrown very far back. Basal joint of thumb small. 

 Index finger clawed. Interferaoral membrane small, ecaudate. Lower in- 

 cisors closing anterior to the upper. 



3 14 1 3 



Dental Formula, m -, c -, i -, c -, m - ^ 28. 

 5 14 15 



Skull remarkably high. Nose broad at summit, occasioned by the develop- 

 ment of the nasal bones. Extending from the canines to near the top of the 

 face is an irregular ridge for the insertion of the curious nasal membrane al- 

 ready noticed. The infra-orbital foramen opens posteriorly to the entire 

 dental series. The skull is broader between the eyes than in other Pteropines. 

 Post- orbital processes stout, short and pointed outwards and backwards. 

 Cranium small, comprising but a third of tlie entire head. A parietal crest is 

 present for about two-thirds its length, when it abruptly terminates at the apex 

 of a small triangle which is formed by the want of approximation of the hinder 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



portion of the temporal fossse. Occipital ridge well marked and leaning back- 

 wards. Foramen magnum oibicular. Palatal bones united with the deeply 

 arched mouth by a greater angle than that of Pteropus. The foramen incisi- 

 Tum is cordate. 



The lower jaw is flattened and irregular, depressed at symphysis. The two 

 halves unite at a less acute angle than in Pteropus. The coronoid process is low, 

 and the angle which it forms with the alveolar ridge is so slight that the dis- 

 tance from the top of the process to the last molar is equal to one-half the 

 distance from the same point to the small pre-molar. The condyloid process 

 is about one-half the distance between the base of the jaw and the top of the 

 coronoid. 



Tlie superior incisors are small unicuspid, regular and separated from one 

 another. The distance between tlie canines and the laterals is greater than 

 the distance from one incisor to another. The canines are slender, convex 

 anteriorly, point slightly backward, and, when the jaws are closed, nearly 

 touch the plane on which the skull rests. The first molar is pointed ; the 

 second and third are much alike, the posterior being smaller and less trenchant, 

 the external cusp being the larger. 



The inferior incisors are small, separated, the space between the centrals 

 exceeding that between the laterals. The canines are smaller and blunter 

 than those above, and lean strongly backwards. The premolar, which is ab- 

 sent above, is here present; it is very minute, shaped, like an incisor, is 

 nearer the canine than the second molar, is directed backward and outward, 

 and, when the jaws are closed, is observed to be placed anterior to the superior 

 cuspidatus. The first and second molars assume the carnivorous type ; the 

 second has two cusps divided as usual by a longitudinal groove ; the third 

 and fourth have their cusps much worn, the latter being little more than flat- 

 tened tubercles. 



As mentioned above, the articulation is curious ; the inferior incisors close 

 in front of the superior, so as to completely hide them. 



H. MONSTRosus, n. s. — Fur fine and short, very thin upon the face, inter- 

 spersed witli a few long stiff hairs. A well-marked white line extends from 

 the facial protuberance to between the eyes. Top of head and nucleal region 

 light ash brown, dark in the centre, lighter upon the sides, and narrowing to 

 a whitish band which encompasses the inferior part of the anterior surface of 

 the neck. The hair between this band and the chin is very thin and scatter- 

 ing, and of a pale brown. Dorsum delicate plumbeous tipped with grey, thicker 

 above than below. The fur runs to a purer brown upon the posterior part of 

 interfemoral membranes and thighs. The fore extremities to near the carpal 

 joint are clothed with a thin coating of fur, while the interbrachial surface and 

 that contained between the fourth finger and the sides of the body are studded 

 in diiferent directions with interrupted lines of minute hairs. The pectoral 

 region and sides of belly of the prevailing hue — plumbeous grey — with a ten- 

 dency of that in the centre of the abdomen to become whitish. Pubic region 

 brownish. At the point of junction of the interbrachial membrane with the 

 body a row of white hair is seen. The membranes beneath have upon them 

 the same thin lightish hairs as above, but more extensive. 



The dimensions of the skull are as follows : 



Length from occipirt to extremity of nose 2*9 in. 



" of cranium 1-0 



" " nose 1-6 



Height of nose 0*9 



Breadth of nasal bones 0-3^ 



" palate between canines 0"6 



" " " molars 09 



Distance between zygomas , 1*6 



1861.] 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Length of lower jaw 2*3 in. 



Brf adth of symphysis 0*6 



Distance between condyles 1*3 



Height of coronoids 0-9 



Distance between first premolar and canine 0*2 



Dimensions of the body : 



From snout to interfemoral membrane 12'0 



" " ears 3*4 



'< " eyes 2-0 



" anterior part of eyes to ears 1*4 



Length of mouth 1'4 



Breadth of snout 1"4 



Height of snout 0-8 



" face 1-1 



Breadth of chin 0-9 



Length " 0-4^ 



Breadth between eyes 1'3 



" " ears 1"6 



Distance from snout to wing membrane 5 7 



Length of ulna 4"6 



" thumb 2-0 



" first joint 0-9 



" second joint 1'3 



" index finger 3-9 



" third " 9-6 



" fourth " 7-1 



fifth " 6-6 



" inferior extremity 3"6 



'• tibia 2-1 



" foot and claws 1*3 



Expanse of wing membranes 27'0 



Hah. — Western Africa. Discovered by M. Duchaillu. 



Epomophorus comptds, n. s. — Hair soft ; thick above, thinner below. Color 

 on the back a d(4icate reddish fawn, becoming darker on the loins and base of 

 arms. Under surface with a large ovoid patch of dirty white, bounded late- 

 rally by longitudinal fawn colored stripes. Face covered with short brown 

 hairs. Small yellow tufts at base of ears. Chin whitish. Epaulettes' faintly 

 marked. Lips moderate. 



3 12 1 3 



Dental formula, m -, c- i -, c -, m - = 26. 

 5 14 1 5 



The fur of this bat diifers from that of any other of the genus to which it belongs 

 in not being unicolored. That upon the back of the neck and shoulders pos- 

 sesses three well-defined hues — the base is of a dark brown, the middle of a 

 paler hue, while the tip forms a delicate reddish brown. This, however, can 

 only be seen where the hair is thickest. Lower down upon the back and on 

 the belly the entire length of each individual hair is of one color. Everywhere 

 the hair covering is soft and yielding. All that space beginning between the 

 eyes and terminating at the middle of the back is of thick, fine, beautiful hair. 

 The sides are much thinner and darker ; they form a continuous line with 

 that of the ulna, where it extends down upon the wing membrane some little 

 distance. The continuation of the dorsal fur forms on the ventral suiface ol 

 th6 interfemoral membrane a sparsely furnished patch, which goes to make 

 the lower portion of the lateral fawn-colored bands. These latter are narrow 

 inferiorly, wider superiorly, where they terminate gradually in the lighter hue 

 of the cervical region. From the external side a prolongation is sent up along 

 the line of the humerus and ulna to within an inch of the carpal joint ; both 



I 



4 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



above and below this line the membrane has upon it several points of short 

 lanuginous hairs of a whitish color. 



The customary clumps of hair at the base of the ears are present. The an- 

 terior spot is larger than the posterior. 



The characteristic shoulder tufts are by no means conspicuous ; they are 

 composed of thin long hairs of a light color. The centres are quite naked and 

 placed more upon the neck than is usual. 



The skull is smaller than that of E. gamhianus Ogil. The post-orbital pro- 

 cesses are small but well defined ; temporal fosss not approximate. The in- 

 termaxillaries slight, terminating in a point, not abruptly, as in E. gambianus, 

 and supports but two incisors. The latter occupy the centre of the inter-ca- 

 nine space, and are slightly separated from one another.* 



The other teeth differ in no particular from those of E. gambianus except in 

 their mode of articulation, in wliich the inferior incisors close in front to the 

 superior, as already seen in Hypsignathus, the superior teeth, however, are 

 not entirely hidden. 



This species holds a position between E. gambianua Ogil. and E. shoensis Riip. 

 It differs from the former in the relative length of the nose, in the tricolored 

 hair of back, and in the greater extent of the epigastric patch ; from the latter 

 in being much larger, and in the absence of the dark colored abdomen. 



Dimensions. 



Length of head and body G"0 



" from snout to base of ears IG 



" " eye to snout 0*8 



" " anterior part of eye to ear 0-8 



Height of ears 0*9 



Breadth of ears 0'6 



Length from nose to wing membrane 2-8 



'* of forearm 3'0 



" longest finger 6-0 



" fourth '' 4-8 



'* thumb and claws 1-2 



" basal joint 0-3 



" second joint 0-8 



" tibia 1-6 



" foot and claws 0"8 



Expanse of wing membrane 18"0 



Hab. — Western Africa ; discovered by M. Duchaillu. 



Pteropus mollipilosus, n. s. — Head small ; ears large. Envergure great. 

 Interfemoral membrane scanty. Tail very small, free. General hue olive brown ; 

 brighter upon the back of the neck, where a faint dusky-brown line is seen tra- 

 versing the thick fur of this region. Antero-posteriorly a patch of the same hue 

 lies upon each shoulder ; that upon the back is thinner and darker. Tlie in- 

 terfemoral membrane is well furnished with soft olive brown hair, which be- 

 comes more scanty and shorter as it runs down the legs and the back of the 

 feet to the claws. Back of the humerus and ulna thinly covered with the 

 hair of the prevailing hue ; anterior part of neck russet ; belly of the same 

 prevailing color as the back, with an inclination to dusky red upon the thighs. 



* This disposition of the superior incisors is peculiar We know that these teeth fre- 

 quently vary ; as, for instance, in the genus Hypodcrma, where the young animal has 



4 2 2 



i - and later in life -; the elderly animal possessing but -. Thus, the difference in th»> 



4 2 



number of the incisors is not of the importance which might at first sight be supposed. 

 It is interestmg, however, to itnow that this is the only instance of incisorial variation 

 as yet seen among the species of Epouiophorus. 



1861.] 




16i) PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Fine straggling hairs clothe the inferior surface of the nlna and humerus, and 

 stretch out upon the membrane down along the sides of the body and upwards 

 upon the interbrachial membrane. Everywhere the hair is very soft. 



The skull is of medium size, not crested. The postorbital processes are long 

 and incline outward and downward to within two lines of the zygomas. The 

 intermaxillary bone is not thrown forward and downward as in other Pteropi, 

 but is on the same level as the roof of the mouth. The first premolar above 

 is larger than the incisors. The same tooth on the lower jaw is also of good 

 size, but less tubercular than in other species. 

 The dimensions are as follows : 



Length from nose to base of tail 8*0 



" " " commencement of membrane 3'0 



" of head 2-3 



" from nose to eye 1*0 



" " eye to ears 0-6 



Between eyes 0*9 



" ears 1'3 



Height of ears 0*10 



Length of tail 0*3 



" superior extremity 6-6 



" thumb l-7i 



" first joint 0-4| 



•' second joint 1*3 



" index finger 3*0 



" third " 80 



" fourth " 6-5 



" fifth " 50 



Envergure 26'0 



It will be observed that the length of the inferior extremity and the expanse 

 of wing membrane are greater than usual, when the other proportions are 

 taken into consideration, 



Hab. — Western Africa ; discovered by M. Duchaillu. 



Descriptions of certain Species of DIURNAL LEPIDOPTEaA, found within the 

 limits of the United States and of British America. 



BY WM. H. EDWARDS. 



1. Melitsea mylitta, nov. sp. 6. Coenonympha inornata, nov. sp. 



2. " minuta, nov. sp. 7. " ochracea, nov. sp. 



3. " nycteis, Doubleday. 8. Lycsena Anna, nov. sp. 



4. Limenitis Weiderneverii, nov. sp. 9. " Scudderii, nov. sp. 



5. Satyrus Silvestris, nov. sp. 10. " fuliginosa, nov. sp. 



MELiTiEA MYLITTA, nov. sp. Expands 1"2 inch. 



Male. — Upper side fulvous; fringe of primaries alternately black and white, 

 of secondaries white ; on hind margin of primaries a broad black border, in 

 which is a series of fulvous lunules, the middle one largest and projecting, 

 preceded by a sinuous row of round fulvous spots which increase in size 

 towards the inner margin ; next, a fulvous band, the upper half of which 

 intersects the preceding row at the fifth spot, making it appear bifid on the 

 costal margin ; this band is edged anteriorly by a black line which is dilated 

 on costal and on inner margin ; on the discal arc a fulvous streak entirely 

 edged with black ; base of both wings covered by wavy confluent black lines, 

 as in Tharos. 



Secondaries have a narrow black marginal border, on the anterior edge of 

 which is a row of fulvous lunules, the one next the anal angle bisected longi- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 16l 



tudinally by a black line ; above these a row of black dots, the one in the 

 anal angle oblong ; on the costal margin near the outer angle a black patch, 

 from which an interrupted dark line crosses the wing to near the abdominal 

 margin. 



Under side : primaries pale fulvous, cloiided with yellowish on the apex 

 and hind margin ; the black markings on the disk of upper side indicated 

 below from the transparency of the wing ; a black patch near the inner angle, 

 a faint black streak on costal margin and another on inner margin correspond- 

 ing with the dilated extremities of the line above ; both wings bordered by 

 lunules. 



Secondaries yellowish, clouded with brown on the disk and on the hind 

 margin ; the middle lunule white and arrow-shaped, those next the angles 

 yellowish, the others dark brown ; a row of brown points corresponding with 

 the spots above ; across the middle of the wing an irregular band of yellowish 

 white edged with ferruginous ; next the base several white or yellow-white 

 spots edged with ferruginous. 



Female. — One-third larger than the male, which it resembles ; the marginal 

 spots and transverse band on primaries are of lighter color, the latter tawny ; 

 the marginal lunules on secondaries are tawny ; beneath, the lunules next the 

 inner angles of secondaries are silver white, as are the band and the spots 

 next the base ; near the apex of primaries are four or five small silver spots. 



Texas ; Kansas ; California. 



This species appears to vary widely in color. Individuals are found blackish 

 instead of fulvous, the wavy lines near the base lost in the uniform shade. 

 The marginal spots and band are light colored, nearly yellow, but disposed 

 as in the type above described ; the under side exhibits little variation. 



Melit^a minuta, nov. sp. Expands 1'4 inch. 



Upper side orange fulvous ; a narrow black border upon the hind margin 

 of both wings, within which is a series of fulvous lunules ; preceding the 

 black border a narrow common fulvous band edged anteriorly with black, and 

 enclosing on costal margin of primaries a transverse row of four obsolete 

 white spots ; from this band to the base both wings are marked by transverse, 

 undulated black lines ; base clouded with brown ; costa of primaries brown ; 

 fringe white, cut with black at the intersection of the nervures. 



Under side orange, brighter on secondaries ; a narrow white border on the 

 hind margin of both wings ; anterior to this a series of white lunules, each 

 edged with black ; on costal margin of primaries a transverse row of four 

 white spots ; beyond this to the base black markings as on upper side ; on 

 secondaries the lunules are preceded by an immaculate orange band, beyond 

 which is a broad transverse white band containing three rows of black spots, 

 somewhat irregularly placed, and mostly oblong ; some of the middle row 

 circular ; another irregular white band crosses the wing towards the base, 

 edged with black spots ; at the base a white spot edged with black. 



Texas. From the collection of Mr. J. W. Weidemeyer, of New York. 



Melit^a nycteis, Doubleday. Expands 1 "4 inch. 



Male. — Upper side tawny ; fringe long, with alternate bars of black and 

 white ; primaries next the base crossed by black undulated lines edged with- 

 out by a zigzag black band which is dilated on the costal and on inner margin ; 

 a broad black border on hind margin and apex, within which along the margin 

 is an interrupted series of points, the middle one lunular, the two next the 

 apex white, the others tawny ; preceding these a transverse sinuous row of 

 small spots, nearly round, tawny, except the two on the costal margin, which 

 are white and minute ; between the black border and the zigzag band a broad 

 sinuous tawny band common to both wings. 



Secondaries next the base greenish-black, lightly sprinkled with tawny 

 atoms, and marked by two or three patches of same color, the outline less 



1861.] 12 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



irregular than on primaries ; on hind margin a narrow black border, which 

 extends also along the costal margin to the common tawny band ; from its 

 anterior edge on the costa, a wavy black line crosses the disk and terminates 

 inside the abdominal margin ; npon the hind margin a series of yellow 

 lunules, the third from the anal angle largest and projected ; above these a 

 broad tawny band, edged anteriorly by the wavy black line, encloses a row 

 of sis black spots, the middle one largest, the one in the anal angle long ; 

 abdominal margin paler than disk. 



Under side : primaries tawny, next the base showing faintly the black 

 markings of the upper side ; a small patch of black on inner margin ; hind 

 margin and apex pale brown, clouded and spotted on the apex with white ; 

 a marginal series of arrow-shaped spots of yellowish white, the third from the 

 inner angle and two next the apex largest ; anterior to these, the transverse 

 row of spots on upper side is reproduced faintly ; secondaries pale brown, 

 clouded in the disk and on hind margin with black ; a marginal series of un- 

 equal silver lunules ; above these a row of six black spots edged with yellow, 

 the first next the costa nearly obsolete, the second and third round, the fourth 

 and fifth semi-oval, and the sixth long ; the fourth faintly pupilled with white ; 

 across the middle of the wing an irregular silver band, and between this and 

 the base several silver spots, all edged with dark brown ; within the cell two 

 small yellow spots ; body above greenish- black, beneath white ; antennae 

 brown, annulated with white ; club reddish-brown. 



Female. — One-third larger than male, which it closely resembles ; the mar- 

 ginal spots on primaries beneath are long and attenuated ; the silver lunules 

 of secondaries take the form of a deeply crenated band ; a distinct silver pupil 

 in the fourth black spot. 



Illinois ; Missouri. 



LiMENiTis Weidemeyerii, uov. sp. Expauds 2*G inch. 



Male. — Upper side brownish-black, with a broad common white band a little 

 beyond the middle, making an obtuse angle within on the primaries and taper- 

 ing towards the abdominal margin of secondaries, divided into long spots by 

 the nervures ; posterior to this band on secondaries an obsolete row of fulvous 

 spots ; within the hind margin of both wings a series of small white spots, 

 minute on secondaries ; between these and the band on costal margin of pri- 

 maries a short transverse row of four white spots, the second largest, the 

 fourth minute ; crenations white. 



Under side paler, with a common white band and four white spots on pri- 

 maries as above ; on secondaries a row of fulvous spots posterior to the band ; 

 a little within the hind margin of both wings a series of large lunules cut 

 transversely and unequally by a crenated black line parallel to the margin ; 

 these lunules are bluish-white except towards apex of primaries, where the 

 inner row is white ; on primaries a narrow ferruginous band upon the discal 

 arc, followed within the cell successively by blue atoms, a bluish-white band 

 and a ferruginous band, both narrow, transverse and oblique ; next the base 

 blue atoms ; costa ferruginous ; on secondaries the broad abdominal margin 

 is bluish-white ; the entire space between the band and the base is striped 

 transversely with white and bluish-white, divided into spots by the nervures, 

 with ferruginous lines between the stripes ; costa white ; body above black ; 

 beneath white, with a black stripe along the side of abdomen ; palpi and legs 

 white ; antennae and club brownish-black. 



Rocky Mountains. From the collection of Mr. J. W. Weidemeyer. 



Satyrus silvestris, nov. sp. Expands 1'9 inch. 



Male. — Upper side brown ; fringe same color ; behind and along the discal 

 cell of primaries a dark patch extending from the base half way to the apex ; 

 near the apex a small round black spot with a faint iris ; a black point near 

 the inner angle. Under side paler ; primaries with a tinge of yellow ; two 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



ocelli corresponding to tbe spots above, the larger next the apex, each with 

 white pupils and yellow iris ; the disks of both wings finely streaked with 

 dark brown ; a dark line parallel to and near the hind margin of primaries ; 

 on secondaries are two dots, — a white one in the anal angle, a dark one near 

 the apex. 



Female. — Same size as the male, a little lighter color ; near the apex of pri- 

 maries a single spot ; the dark patch as in the male ; on the under side two 

 dots near the anal angle of secondaries. 



California. From Dr. H. Behr, San Francisco. 



C(2N0NTMPHA iNOENATA, nov. sp. Expauds 1'4 iuch. 



Male. — Upper side ochrey brown, lighter in the disk of all the wings ; costal 

 margin of primaries and abdominal margin of secondaries greyish ; no spots 

 above or below ; fringe grey, crossed by a darker line. 



Under side : primaries same color as above from the base to beyond the 

 middle ; then a transverse sinuous ray of paler color, and beyond this to hind 

 margin greyish ; sometimes this ray disappears, the basal color extending 

 nearly to the apex ; secondaries grey with a slight greenish tinge, darker from 

 base to middle, and this shade separated from the paler margin by a trans- 

 verse, tortuous, interrupted ray, the course of which is parallel to the hind 

 margin. 



Female. — Wholly dull ochrey yellow, marked as the male. 



Lake Winnipeg. From Mr. Robert Kennicott. 



CffixoNYMPHA ocHRACEA, nov. sp. Expands 1'4 to 1'6 inch. ^ 



Male. — Upper side entirely of a bright, glossy ochre yeUow, withont any 

 spot or mark, except what is caused by the transparency of the wings : 

 base of both wings dark grey ; abdominal margin of secondaries pale grey ; 

 fringe pale grey, crossed by a darker line. 



Under side : primaries same color as above ; costal margin, apex and base 

 greyish ; near the apex a round, sometimes rounded-oblong, black spot with 

 white pupil and pale yellow iris ; tliis is preceded by an abbreviated, pale 

 yellow, transverse ray. 



Secondaries light reddish-brown, greyish along the hind margin ; abdominal 

 margin and base dark grey ; near the hind margin and parallel to it is a series 

 of six black dots, sometimes obsolete, usually with white jjupil and broad 

 yellow iris ; near the base two irregular pale brown spots, and midway be- 

 tween the base and the hind margin a sinuous, interrupted ray of same color, 

 extending nearly across the wing. 



Fem^ale like the male. 



Lake Winnipeg ; Califoi-nia ; Kansas. 



Lycjena Anna, nov. sp. Expands 1'3 inch. 



Male. — Upper side violet blue with a pink tinge, brighter at the base and 

 on costal margin of primaries ; hind margin of both wings narrowly edged 

 with black, which in the primaries extends slightly along the nervures and 

 the costal margin ; fringe white. 



Under side greyish-white with a tinge of blue at the base ; primaries with 

 a discal streak, followed by a transverse series of six small black spots, the 

 one next the inner angle double and the fifth largest ; both wings bordered by 

 rusty spots surmounted by black crescents, the four or five nearest the anal 

 angle powdered posteriorly with silver atoms ; secondaries have three small 

 spots near the base, an obsolete discal spot, and a transverse series of eiglit 

 small spots in a double uneqiial curve. 



Female. — Upper side light brown, with an obsolete discal spot on primaries ; 

 hind margin of both wings bordered by a series of fulvous crescents, which 

 in the secondaries partlj' enclose spots of dark brown. Under side fawn- 

 colored, marked as in the male. 



California. From Dr. H. Behr. 



1861.] 




164 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE ACADEMY 05" 



LYCiE\A SccDDERii, Dov. sp. Expands 1*1 inch. 



31ale. — In size, form and color resembles iEgon of Europe. Upper side 

 dark violet blue ; hind margin of both wings and costal margin of secondaries 

 edged with black ; costal margin of primaries has a fine black border ; fringe 

 white. 



Under side dark grey ; primaries have an oval black diacal spot, a trans- 

 verse, tortuous series of six black spots, all edged witli white, the one next 

 the inner angle double, the iiftli twice as long as the others ; on the hind 

 margin a double series of faint spots ; secondaries with four black spots near 

 the base, one being very close to the inner margin, and minute ; a discal 

 streak and a series of eight spots in a double unequal carve, all of which, as 

 well as the basal spots, are edged with white ; a marginal series of six or 

 seven metallic spots, each surmounted by a spot of fulvous, which is bordered 

 anteriorly by a dark crescent ; these metallic spots are edged posteriorly and 

 sometimes replaced by black ; ends of nervures expanded into small black 

 spots. 



i'^e»;(a/p.— Upper side brown, with a black discal spot on primaries ; second- 

 aries with a marginal row of obsolete spots surmounted by greyish crescents. 

 Under side pale buff; primaries as in the male, except that the discal spot is 

 preceded by a small double spot, and all the spots are larger ; on the second- 

 aries the spots are less distinct and some of them wanting ; the transverse 

 series is set in a band of white ; marginal spots without the metallic gloss. 



Lake "Winnipeg. From Mr. S. H. Scudder, of Cambridge, Mass. 



Lyc^Nf, FULiGirrosA, nov. sp. Expands 1"3 inch. 



Male. — Upper 'side entirely blackish-brown ; fringe lighter. Under side 

 light brown, with a dark discal spot and a double roM' of rusty points parallel 

 to the hind margin of both wings, the outer row on primaries obsolete. 



Female a little larger, of lighter color both above and below, but similarly 

 marked. 



California. From Dr. H. Behr. 



Notes on some Genera of Fishes of the Western Coast of Korth America. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The preparation of a report on the fishes collected by the naturalists and 

 other gentlemen connected with the North Western Boundary Survey having 

 been intrusted to me, I have examined almost all of the different species that 

 have been described from oiir Pacific waters. Such an examination soon con- 

 vinced me of the imperfect arrangement of many of our types, and has 

 induced me to undertake a careful revision of the entire ichthyic Fauna. All 

 of the families represented on our Pacific coast have been investigated, and 

 their limits defined more rigorously than had been previously done ; the 

 genera have been restricted after a comparative study of exotic as well as of 

 indigenous forms, and it has been attempted to distribute the allied genera 

 among natural subfamilies and groups. As some time may yet elapse before 

 the publication of the extended report, the following synopsis of some of the 

 genera, founded on formerly described species, may be acceptable. The 

 descriptions of new generic and specific types will be given at another time. 

 The consideration of the true nomenclature of the other species and their 

 synonymy is reserved for the Report. 



PERCOIDS. 



I. Atractopeeca Gill. 



Under the name of Paralabrax, Dr. Girard has confounded two different 

 generic types of Serranin*. The first species of his genus being the Parala- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



brax nebulifer, the name may be restricted to it. For the second species a 

 new generic name must he then framed : that of Atractoperca may he given. 

 Atructoperca bears nearly the same relation to that genus of which the Ser- 

 ranus scriba of the Mediterranean Sea is the type, as does Paralabrax to Epine- 

 phelits. It differs from Paralabrax by the conical head and the naked inter- 

 orbital area. 



1. Atractoperca clathrata Gill. 



Spi. Labrax clathratus Girard. 



Paralabrax clathratus Girard. 



II. Archoplites Gill. 



This genus is proposed for the Ambloplites infer ruptiis of Dr. Girard. It 

 differs from Ambloplites by the greater prominence of the lower jaw, the pre- 

 sence of two bands of teeth on the tongue instead of one, and the greater 

 develojiment and different structure of the spinous portions of tlie dorsal and 

 anal fins. 



2. Archoplites inteeruptus Gill. 



CH^^TOD ONTOID S. 



III. Parephippus Gill. 



The American Chsetodontoids, referred to the genus Epliippus by Cuvier, 

 differ from the typical species by the smaller size of the scales and the form of 

 the dorsal fin as well as of the anal. Such differences are of generic value in 

 this group ; the American species are consequently referred to a new genus. 



Type. Parephippus gigas. 

 Syn. Ephippus gigas Cuv. 



3. Parephippus zonatus. 



Syn. Ephippus zonatus Girard. 



POMA CENTR OIDS. 



IV. HypsYPOPS Gill. 



This genus is intended to embrace some fishes which have been referred to 

 Glyphisodon but which essentially differ. The head has a different form, 

 resulting from the suborbital bones, which are as high as long. The teeth 

 are also blunt and entire, and not notched at their crowns. 



4. Hypsypops rubicctndus. 



Sijn. Glyphisodon ribicundus Girard. 



SCORPJENOIDS. 



v. Sebastodes Gill. 



This genus is framed for the Sebastes paucispinis of Ayres. It has a very 

 different facies from Sebastes, and is readily distinguished by the longer body, 

 the very protuberant lower jaw, which has a symphiseal swelling beneath, 

 the minute scales, the form and armature of the head, the deep emargination 

 of the dorsal fin and the emarginated caudal. 



5. Sebastodes paucispinis. 



Si/n. Sebastes paucispinis Ayres, Girard. 



CHI ROWS. 

 VI. Chirus (Steller) Cuv. 

 The name of Chirus must be retained iu place of Chiropsis, as the former 

 1861.] 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



name was proposed for a species of that genus. Its generic characters are the 

 presence of the palatine teeth, the notched dorsal fin and the three super- 

 numerary nearly perfect lines on each side. 



VII. ACANTHOLEBICS Gill. 



The Chiropsls nehulosiis of Girard differs from the true Chiri by the develop- 

 ment of the spinous dorsal, the presence of only three continuous super- 

 numerary lines on each side, and the absence of palatine teeth. It is as nearly 

 allied to Hexagrammus as to Chirus, 



C. ACANTHOLEBICS NEBLILOSUS. 



Stjii. Chiropsis nebulosus Girard. 



VIII. Pleueogrammus Gill. 



Among the fishes referred to (Jliirus or Labrax, there is one distinguished 

 by the presence of teeth on the vomer and palatines, an entire dorsal fin, and 

 the possession of one supernumerary dorsal and two supra-anal lines. For 

 this species, the generic name of Pleurogrammus is offered. 



7. Pleukogrammks monopterygius. 



Sun. Labrax monopterygius Pallas. 



IX. Grammatopleurus Gill. 



The Labrax lagocephalus of Pallas is the type of another unnamed genus 

 of Chiroids. It is distinguished from all others of its subfamily by its cycloid 

 scales. The dorsal is divided, and there are four supernumerary lines on each 

 side. 



8. GRAMMATOPLEUR0S LAGOCEPHALUS. 



Sijn. Labrax lagocephalus Pallas. 



X. Anoplopojia Ayres. 



This genus is a valid and very distinct one, but its describer has mistaken 

 its affinities. It is a Chiroid, but is the type of a distinct subfamily. 



COTTOIDS. 



XL Megalocottus Gill. 



The Cottus platycepholus of Pallas appears to be most nearly related to the 

 genera Porocothix and Boreocottus Gill, but to be distinguished by the presence 

 of palatine teeth. 



9. Megalocottus platycephalus. 



Sijn. Cottus platycephalus Pallas. 



XII. Clinocottcs Gill. 



Clinocottus differs generically from the Oligocottus maculosus Girard, by the 

 absence of palatine teeth, the presence of prickles on the body, the entire 

 anal fin and the form of the head. 



10. Clinocottus analis. 



Syn. Oligocottus analis Girard. 



XIII. Bleijnicottus Gill. 



This genus has been also confounded with Oligocottus by Girard, but 

 decidedly differs in the form of the head, its armature, and the structure of 

 the anal fin. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



11. BlEN\IC6tTUS GLOBICEPS. 



Sijn. Oligocottus globiceps Girard. 



XIV. Ceratocottcs Gill. 



Oue of the characters assigned to this genus in the original remarks on it 

 was the absence of vomerine teeth. On subsequent observation, they were 

 detected. The diagnosis must be consequently modified. It is much regret- 

 ted that such an error should have occurred. 



AGONOIDS* 



XV. Anoplagonus Gill. 



This genus is allied to Aspidophoroides, but is readily distinguished by the 

 presence of vomerine and palatine teeth. 



12. AXOPLAGOXUS rN'ERMIS. 



Syn. Aspidophoroides inermis GUnther. 



* The family of Agonoids maybe divided into four groups, — the Podotheci, Hypsagoni, 

 Agoni and Anaplogoni. It may be further divided as follows: — 



Group L PODOTHECI. 



Genus Podothecus Gill. 



Group II. HYPSAGOAT. 



Hyps AGO Nus Gill. 

 Typp. Hypsngonus quadricornis Gill. 

 Syn. Aspidophorus quadricornis Cuv. et Vol. 



Group in. AGONI. 

 HippocEPHALUs Swainson. 

 Type. Hippocephalus Japonicus Gill. 

 Syn. Cottus Japonicus Pallas. 



Agonus stegophthalmus Tiledus. 



Agonus Bloch. 

 Type. Agonus cataphractus Bloch. 



Parago.nus Gill. 

 Type. Paragonus acipenserinus. 

 Syn. Agonus acipenserinus Tilesius. 



Agonopsis Gill. 

 Type. Agonopsis chiloensis Gill. 

 Sy7i. Aspidophorus chiloensis Kroyer. 



Leptagonus Gill. 

 Type. Leptagonus spinosissimus Gill. 

 Syn. Aspidophorus spinosissimus Kroyer. 



Brachyopsis Gill. 

 Type. Brachyopsis rostratus Gill. 

 Syn. Agonus rostratus Tilesiun. 



Group IV. ANOPLAGONI. 

 Anoplagonus Gill. 

 Type. Anoplagonus inermis Gill. 

 Syn. Aspidophoroides inermis Grintker. 



Aspidophoroides Lac. 

 Type. Aspidophoroides monopterygius Lac. 



1861.] 




16S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I 

 BLENNOIDS. . \ 



XVI. Hetekostichus Girard. 



Heterostichus has been recently correctly recognized by Dr. Giinther to be 

 very nearly related to the genus Myxodes ; it is not at all allied to the Trachi- 

 noids. It differs from Myxodes in dentition and several other characters. 



XVII. Hypleurochilus Gill. 



This genus was proposed in the "Catalogxie of the Fishes of the Eastern 

 Coast of North America" for the Bhnnins multijilis of Girard. It is distin- 

 guished from Blennius by its restricted lateral branchial apertures. From 

 ChasmoJes and other genera having a similar restriction, it is more remotely 

 separated by its form and other characters. A Blennoid of the Pacific coast 

 described by Girard is nearly allied to the type. 



13. Hypleurochilus gentilis. 



Syn. Blennius gentilis Girard. 



XVIII. Brosmophycis Gill. 

 Dr. Ayres has described a remarkable Gadoid of California, which has much 

 of the general appearance and the single dorsal of the Bro^mii, but has no men- 

 tal barbel, and the ventral fins are represented by single filaments. The 

 species so characterized has been referred to Brosmius, bat it is evidently very 

 distinct from that genus, and is the type of a new one. On account of the 

 union of some of the features of Brosmius and Phycis, the name of Brosmophycis 

 may be given to it. 



14. Brosmophycis marginatus. 



Syn. Brosmius marginatus Ayres. 



On a new typs of AULOSTOMATOIDS, found in Washington Territory. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



Among the new types of fishes discovered by Dr. Kennerly and other gen- 

 tlemen attached to the North-western Boundary Survey, there is one espe- 

 cially worthy of notice. It belongs to the family of the Aulostomatoids, but 

 is at once distinguished from all the other genera of that family by the com- 

 paratively advanced position of the ventral fins, they being inserted a little 

 behind the bases of the pectoral. The species is evidently quite nearly allied 

 to the spine-bearing members of the family, but may be considered the type 

 of a distinct subfamily. The genus Polypterichthys, of Bleeker, is more nearly 

 allied to Aulostoma than to the North American genus, and those two genera 

 may be united in one subfamily distinguished from our new genus, and from the 

 recently described Siphonopnathus of Sir John Richardson. The relations of the 

 genus will be discussed more fully in the Re^jort on the Fishes of Western 

 North America. We here offer a simple synopsis of the family and the diag- 

 nosis of the new genus. The family Aulostomatoidse is now restricted to the 

 elongated subcylindrical or subtfBiiiform fishes, with the mouth at the ex- 

 tremity of an elongated tube formed by the nasal and vomerine bones, and 

 the preopercular, interopercular, pterygoid and tympanic ones. The genera 

 Centriscus and Amphisile are only remotely allied to them. 



The family of Aulostomatoids still contains, after the removal of Centriscus 

 and Amphisile, five genera, which may be distributed as follows : 



Subfamily SIPHONOGNATHIN^ Gill. 



SlPHONOGNATHtJS Rich. 



Siphonognathus Richardson, Proc. Zoological Society of London, Nov., 1857; 

 ib. in Annals and Magazine of Nat. Hist., vol. i. p. 226. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Subfamily AULOSTOMIN^ Gill. 



AuLOSTOMA Lac. 



PoLYPTERicHTHYS Bleekcr. 



Polypterichthys Bleeker, Natuurkundig Tijdsclirift voor Nederlandsch Indie, 

 vol. iv. p. 608. 



Subfamily AULORHYNCHINiE Gill. 



AULORHYNCHUS Gill. 



Subfamily SIPHONOSTOMINiE Gill. 

 SiPHONosTOMUs (Klein) Gron. 



Fistularia Linn. 

 Channorhynchus Cantor. 



Genus Aulokhynchus Gill. 



Body moderately elongated and almost cylindrical. Tail from the dorsal 

 and anal fins elongated conical and slightly depressed, merging into the very 

 slender and depressed caudal peduncle. Skin naked. Lateral line marked by 

 a continuous row of short canals. Head with the skin naked. Mouth small, 

 horizontal, and at the end of a flexible tube about as long as the rest of the 

 head. Intermaxillary bones much expanded, and with long and slender pos- 

 terior processes. Teeth on the supramaxillary and dentary bones nearly uni- 

 serial. Palate edentulous. Nostril with raised margin, rather distant from 

 front of eye. Branchiostegal rays 4 — 4. Dorsal spines numerous, equal and 

 very short, commencing above the pectorrJs. Dorsal and anal fins posterior, 

 nearly equal, oblong, and elevated in frou*. Caudal fin small and emarginated. 

 Pectoral fins also emarginated, the superior and inferior rays being longest. 

 Ventral fins inserted not far behind the bases of the pectoral ; each with a 

 slender spine and five branched rays. 



AuLORHYNCHtJS FlIvIDUS Gill. • 



Tawny, minutely punctulated with black above and on the sides, immacu- 

 late beneath. Snout with a lateral yellowish line. Operculum and suboper- 

 culum with a golden lustre : the former also punctulated above. Ante-pecto- 

 ral or humeral region lustrous golden, bordered above by a blackish band 

 parallel with the superior pectoral ravs. 



D. spines xxvi. D. 10. A. L 10. P. 1, 18, 1. V. I. 5. 

 The proportions, in hundredths, are as follows : 



Total length, 5 inches 100 



Body — Height of body 6 



" behind dorsal 4J 



Width behind dorsal 4J 



Head — Length of head •25 



Distance between snout and preoperculum 'IS 



" " " " orbit -12 



" " orbits 3 



Height of head 5| 



Greatest width of head 4^ 



Diameter of eye 4 



Dorsal — Distance of dorsal fin from snout '49 



Length of dorsal fin 9 



Greatest height 7 



1861.] 




170 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



Caudal — Length of median caudal rays 5 



" longest caudal rays 6 



Pectoral — Length, of pectoral fins -10 



Distance from snout •27|- 



Ventral — Length of ventral fins 5 



Distance from snout '31 



A detailed description will be given in the Report on the Ichthyology of the 

 North Western Boundary Survey. 

 Three specimens of the species were obtained. 



A Monograph of the TKINGEJE of North America. 

 BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



In the latter part of 1860, during the examination at the Smithsonian 

 Institution of an extensive and valuable collection of birds made by Messrs. 

 Robert Kennicott and Bernard R. Ross in tlie vicinityof Great Slave Lake and 

 McKenzie's River, my attention was directed to a Sandpiper, nearly allied to 

 Actodromas maculata and Bonnpartei, but diifering from both in many important 

 features. Subsequent examination having proved it to be without doubt dis- 

 tinct from these, or any other North American Sandpipers, I was authorized by 

 the Secretary of the Institution to describe and name it. To do so properly, 

 necessarily involving a somewhat extended study of the North American 

 Sandpipers, I was induced to undertake a monographic sketch of the section, 

 as well as of the particular genus to which the new species belongs. 



In the following pages it has been attempted to present the leading features 

 of the group ; to give the diagnosis of the several genera and species, with a 

 detailed description when such Appeared necessary ; together with the 

 synonymy of each species and a discussion of doubtful points of nomenclature 

 and afiinity. In how far, however, this aim has been accomplished, must be 

 left for others to judge. 



It is with great diffidence that on some points I dissent from such high 

 authority^ as that of the author of» the TringecB in the General Report ; but 

 when compelled to do so, the reasons are fully stated, which, it is hoped, will 

 be found satisfactory. 



To Professor Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, my grateful 

 acknowledgments are due for the opportunity of examining at leisure the 

 entire Smithsonian collection of Sandpipers, and also for access to those works 

 necessary to the compilation of the list of synonyms. The references have all 

 been personally made and verified, except in a few cases for which the au- 

 thority is given. Though the list is necessarily incomplete, it is believed that 

 no important synonym is omitted. Should, however, errors be detected in 

 this or in any other portion of the article, it is hoped that they will be found 

 to be others than those of negligence or carelessness. 



By many modern ornithologists the Sandpipers are considered as a sub- 

 family TrDiginm of Scolopacidw, equal in rank to the Scolopacince and Totanince. 

 But the relationships of the two former in all essential points are very inti- 

 mate, and the transition from the one to the other, tlirough such genera as 

 Alacroramphus and Micropalama, very gradual, while at the same time the 

 differences from the Totanince are marked and decided. In view of these con- 

 siderations, it may be more natural to consider the Sandpipers as a section 

 of Tringea of equal rank with Scohpacece, uniting both under the subfamily 

 Scolopacince. Upon this basis the different groups may be distinguished by 

 the following brief characters, taken chiefly from the General Report. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Family SCOLOPACID^^. 



Bill variable in length, but at least as long as the head, grooved to beyond 

 the middle. Legs with transverse scutellse before and behind, (excej't in 

 Numeniere.) Toes not broadly margined to the tips, with or without a basal 

 web. Hind toe generally present. 



Scolopacimc. Bill covered with soft slcin to the sensitive, vascular, usually 

 more or less laterally expanded tip. Gape of mouth very small, not extending 

 beyond the base of the culmeu. Bare portion of tibise short. Legs generally 

 rather short and stout. Toes usually cleft to the base. Body stout, neck 

 rather short. 



TotanincB. Bill covered with soft skin only towards the base, the terminal 

 portion being hard, horny, and usually unexpanded and attenuated. Gape of 

 moutli considerable, extending beyond the base of the culmen. Tibife bare 

 for a considerable distance. Legs slender and lengthened. Toes usually with 

 a basal web. 



Subfamily SCOLOPACTNiE. 



Scolopacece. Bill much longer than the head or naked leg, extremely sen- 

 sitive. Upper mandible with a longitudinal furrow near the end, and its tip 

 thickened and bent down over the lower. Roof of mouth not excavated to 

 the tip. External ear beneath or anterior to the eye. Tail usually banded. 



Tringece. Bill shorter than the naked leg, the tip less sensitive than in the 

 preceding, more or less laterally expanded, but not thickened. Roof of mouth 

 excavated to the tip. Culmen without a decided longitudinal groove. Ex- 

 ternal ear posterior to the eye. Tail usually without bands. 



The preceding diagnoses indicate, in a general way, the principal characters 

 of the several groups, and distinguish the Tringece. The latter, at least as far 

 as North American forms are concerned, may be thus more definitely charac- 

 terized. 



The bill is straight or slightly decurved, at least as long as the head, and 

 sometimes considerably exceeding it ; rather slender, usually more or less 

 compressed, seldom much depressed. The tip is usually more or less ex- 

 panded, and sensitive and vascular, that of the upper mandible bent a little 

 over that of the lower. The grooves in both mandibles extend to the expan- 

 sion of the tip ; that of the upper is much the widest, but both are deep and 

 distinct. In some genera there are decided indications of a longitudinal furrow 

 on the culmen near the end. The nostrils are linear, pervious, very narrow, 

 situated in the sinus of the upper mandible, usually very near its base, but 

 sometimes considerably advanced. The angle formed by the rami of the lower 

 jaw is very small, the enclosed space being long and narrow, and the groove 

 marking the line of union of the rami usually extending about two-thirds the 

 length of the bill, but sometimes nearly to the tip. The extent of the en- 

 croachment of the feathers on the bill varies in the different genera ; but, 

 except perhaps in Ancylocheilus, it is always greater between the rami than on 

 the sides. The wings are long, pointed and powerful ; the first primary is 

 usually the longest, but the second is nearly, sometimes quite, equal to it. 

 The rest are all rapidly graduated. The secondaries are very short and incon- 

 spicuous. The edge of the outer vane is obliquely incised at the extremity. 

 The tertials are usually long, slender and tapering, sometimes nearly equal- 

 ling the primaries in length. The tail is rather short, usually doubly emar- 

 giuate, the central feathers pointed, and projecting somewhat beyond the 

 others. The legs and feet vary greatly in their character in the different 

 genera, always, however, being constant in each. Except in Arquatella and 

 Tringa, the tibiae are always exposed for a considerable portion of the length 

 of the tarsus, and in those genera the bare portion is considerable. Except in 

 Arquatella, Actodromas, and perhaps Ereunetes, the tarsus is always decidedly 



1861.] 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



longer than the middle toe and claw. The toes are usually long and slender, 

 more or less margined at the sides, and flattened underneath ; free at the base, 

 or witli a very rudimentaiy membrane, except in Micropalama and Ereunetes. 

 The lateral are nearly equal to the middle, tlie outer slightly longer than the 

 inner. The hind toe is present, except in Calidris. The claws vary con- 

 siderably in length, acuteness and amount of curvature, but they are always 

 dilated on the inner edge. 



With respect to coloration, the Tringece of North America, with scarcely the 

 exception of Arquatdla maritima, present a general similarity in the pattern 

 and disposal of the markings of most of the parts. The feathers of the upper 

 parts have their centres very dark, and are margined with some shade of red- 

 dish, yellowish, or white, the color being deepest on the scapulars. The 

 primaries are uniformly deep dusky, without spots or bars, and are darkest at 

 the tips and on tlie outer vanes. Tlie shafts of all are white for some portion, 

 usually the central. The secondaries are ashy-gray, bordered to a greater or 

 less extent with white. Tlie central tail feathers are usually considerably 

 darker than the lateral ; but neither show any approach towards the trans- 

 verse bars so universal among the Scolopacece and Totanince. Any attempt, 

 however, at a generalization of the color of .the under parts seems impossible, 

 since, as will be seen in the diagnoses of the species, they are found of very 

 various patterns and colors. 



The species inhabiting North America are divisible into eight well-marked 

 genera, among which are comprised nearly all the more important ones, 

 though some, such as Eurinorhijnclius and Limicola, liave no representatives. 

 The most extensive of tliese, Actodromas, seems to contain two well-marked 

 groups, at least sub-generically distinct. Each of the otliers comprises but 

 a single admitted North American species ; and of some, such as Tringa, 

 Arquatella, and Ancyloche'dus, but one species is at present known. The cha- 

 racters of the most importance among the Tringece seem to lie in the legs. The 

 proportions of tibia, tarsus and middle toe, and their relations to the bill, 

 readily characterize definitely the groups. They are also the most constant, 

 being subject to very little variation in each species. This is as might be 

 expected, from their radical nature, since the most important and essential 

 character in any group should be the least subject to variation. The bill, on 

 the other hand, diifers much in length in the same genus or species ; it reaches 

 its maximum of variation in Ereunetes, and is most constant throughout the 

 genus Actodromas. Tlie wings and tail vary somewhat, but within very 

 narrow limits. 



The North American genera of Tringece may be readily characterized by the 

 proportions of bill, tarsus and toe, without reference to the tail or wings, though 

 these of course furnish additional characters. The following schedule, in which 

 the characters are purposely made as brief as possible, will serve to define 

 the genera as adopted. 



Synopsis of Genera. 



A. Toes with a decided basal web. 



Bill equal to tarsus, both very long ; exposed portion 

 of tibia equal to middle toe, which is not quite 

 two-thirds the tarsus, Micropalama. 



Bill equal to tarsus, both moderate ; tibia exposed 

 for two-thirds the middle toe, which nearly equals 

 the tarsus, Ereunetes. 



B. Toes cleft to the base, or with a very rudimentary membrane. 



I. Bill longer than the tarsus. 



1. Bill straight ; tibia moderately or scarcely at all exposed. 

 Tarsus longer than the middle toe, hind toe present, Ti-imja. 

 As in Tringa; hind toe absent, Calidris. 



Tarsus shorter than the middle toe, Arquatella. 



[July; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



2. Bill decurved ; tibia much exposed. 



Bill compressed ; legs long, slender ; middle toe 



not quite three-fourths the tarsus, Anojlocheilus. 



Bill depressed ; legs moderate, stout ; middle toe 



nearly or about equal to tarsus, Pelidna. 



II. Bill equal to the tarsus. 



Tarsus equal to middle toe, Actodromas. 



The most natural succession of the penera appears to be that presented 

 above, viz. : Micropalama, Ereunetes, Tringa, Calidris, Arquotella, Ancylo- 

 ckeilus, Pelidna, Actodromas. Micropalama, in its long, slender, sensitive bill, 

 somewhat furrowed culmen and digital web, seems to form the natural con- 

 necting link between Scolopacea and Tringecp, through Macroramphus. 

 Ereunetes is next most closely allied, having also the membrane to the toes ; 

 but here the bill and feet are shortened, and have nearly the proportions of 

 Tringa, which most naturally succeeds. Calidris is in all essentials like 

 Tringa, except the absence of the hind toe. In Arquatella the bill is some- 

 "times very slightly decurved ; in Ancylocheilus and Pelidna it is successively 

 more so. In the latter the middle toe becomes nearly or quite eqTial to the 

 tarsus, opening the way for Actodromas, where the slender, attenuated bill, 

 and much denuded tarsus, seem to lead directly to the TotanincB. 



If so great a subdivision of the Tringea as is here presented be objected to, 

 it is replie<l that the variations in external form are so great that a single 

 genus, in the modern acceptation of the term, cannot contain them all ; and 

 if more than one genus be adopted for those with fully-cleft anterior toes, it is 

 not easy to stop short of the number here adopted. Ornithologists have 

 indeed perceived how unnatural was the association of all the species under 

 Tringa, and at different times, some of them very early, names have been 

 proposed for all the groups. As early as 1800, the absence of the hind toe 

 caused Calidris to be separated ; and, in 1811, the webbed feet of Ereunetes 

 were made the grounds of generic distinction. Pelidna of Cuvier, instituted 

 in 1817 for the slender-toed smaller Sandpipers, was a further attempt at 

 division ; but that genus, as left by its author, still contained species very 

 dissimilar ; and, in 1829, Ancijlocheiliis and Actodromas were characterized. 

 The great peculiarities of Tringa himantopus Bon. caused it, soon after its first 

 discovery, in 1828, to receive subgeneric distinction from Tringa. It was not, 

 however, till 1858, that Ar(juatella, a peculiar form, was characterized. But 

 while in other groups, particularly among the smaller land birds, the divisions 

 have been minute and greatly extended, there seems to have been a general 

 reluctance on the part of ornithologists with regard to recognizing these 

 divisions. It may be that in this group Nature allows more external varia- 

 tion in forms very closely allied than is usual ; but until this is proved to be 

 the case, it seems necessary, to keep pace with the progress of ornithology, to 

 consider the characters of the different sections as of full generic value. 



Having, it is thought, dwelt sufficiently upon the general features of the 

 group, we proceed at once to characterize the different genera and species. 



MICROPALAMA Baird. 



Ilemipalama, Bonaparte, Syn. 1828, 316. Typus Tringa himantopus, Bon. nee 



Bon. Obs. Wils. 1825. (Typus T. semipalmata, Wils.) 

 Micropalama, Baird, Gen. Rep. 1858, 726. Typus T. himantopus, Bon. 



Char. Bill long, equalling the tarsus, straight or very slightly decurved, 

 slender, very much compressed, tip much expanded and vascular for some 

 distance. Culmen on the terminal half depressed, with two rudimentary, 

 longitudinal furrows. Groove on the lower mandible narrow and indistinct. 

 Wings moderate, pointed, first primary a little the longest. Tail of twelve 



]861.] 




174 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



feathers, short, nearly even or slightly doubly emarginate, the central feathers 

 projecting but little. Legs very long ; tarsus equal to the bill ; exposed por- 

 tion of tibia equal to middle toe, which is not quite two-thirds the tarsus. 

 Toes with a decided basal membrane ; flattened beneath, but only moderately 

 margined. Hind toe well developed. Body slender ; neck long. 



A marked and very peculiar genus of Sandpipers, of which the most cha- 

 racteristic feature, in addition to the long comj)ressed bill, is the remarkable 

 elongation of the tibia and tarsus. The former is exposed for fully the length 

 of the middle toe, and is bare for a tenth of an inch or more further. The 

 tibial feathers are very short. The tarsus is nearly a third longer than the 

 middle toe. The basal membrane of the toes, which, though much emargin- 

 ated, is very considerable and decided, is greatest between the outer and mid- 

 dle toe, where it extends to the first joint. Tlie wings and tail are moderate, 

 and present no special peculiarities. 



In the lengthened sensitive bill, basal membrane of the toes, and some other 

 characters, Micropalama seems to have a close affinity to Macroramphm, and 

 in a measure to connect by means of that genus Scolopacem and Tringece, pos- 

 sessing, nevertheless, all the distinguishing features of the latter section. 

 Among the Tringex it comes nearest to Ereuiietef:, which has the basal web 

 and the same relative free portion of bill and tarsus. The other characters, 

 however, are widely different. 



Hemipalama was proposed by Bonaparte in 1825 as a subgenus for the Tringi 

 semipalmata of Wilson, but was subsequently used for the present bird. But 

 as the generic characters are very different, the name cannot be used in this 

 connection. Micropalama of Baird has as its type the T. himantopus of Bona- 

 parte, and is the name which should be employed. 



Micropalama himantopcs, (Bon.), Baird. — Stilt Sandpiper. 



Tringa himantopius, Bonaparte, Ann. N. Y. Lye. ii. 1826, 157, [fide Gen. Rep.] 



Lesson, Manual Urnith. 1828, ii. 284. Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 380. 



Bonaparte, Am. Orn. 1833, iv. 89, tab. 25, fig. 3. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 



1838, iv. 332, tab. 344; Id, Syn. 1839, 235 ; Id. Birds Amer. 1842, v. 271, 



tab. 334. Giraud, Birds L. I. 1844, 232. 

 Tringa Douglassii, Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 379, tab. 66. 

 Tringa {Hemipalama) Douglassii, Nnittall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. 141, [cum fig.] 

 Tringa (Hemipalama) himantopus, Bonaparte, Spec. Comp. 1827, 61 ; iil. Syn. 



1828, 316. Nuttall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. 138. 

 Tringa (Hemipalama) Audubonii, Nuttall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. 140. [juv.] 

 Hemipalama himantopus, Bonaparte, Comp. List. 1838, 49. Dekay, N. Y. F. 



1844, 235, tab. 86, fig. 196. 

 Hemipalama multistriata, "Licht." Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 578. 

 Totanus himantopus, Lambeye, Av. Cubae, 1850, 95. 

 Micropalama himantopus, Baird, Gen. Rep. 1858, 726. 



Sp. Char. Bill much longer than the head, very slightly decurved, much 

 compressed ; the tip flattened, expanded, punctulate. Wings moderate or 

 rather long, first primary longest, the rest successively more rapidly gradu- 

 ated. Tail rather short, slightly doubly emarginate, the central feathers pro- 

 jecting but little. Legs very long ; exposed portion of tibia equal to middle 

 toe, which is two-thirds the tarsus. Adult in spring. — Upper parts very dark 

 brownish black, deepest outhe scapulars, each feather edged and tipped with 

 white, light yellowisli or reddish, which on the scapiilars makes two or three 

 deep indentations. A dusky line from bill to eye, and a light one over the 

 latter to the occiput. Aurioulars, and a continuous line beneath and in front of 

 the eye, light chestnut red. A broad stripe of bright chestnut on each side of 

 the occiput, confluent on the nape. Rump dusky ; upper tail coverts white, 

 transversely barred with wavy lines cf deep dusky. Primaries deep dusky, 

 the tips blackish. Tail ashy grey, central feathers scarcely darker, the mar- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. l75 



gins of all and a central field along the shaft white. Under parts white, the 

 throat and jugulum streaked, and the other parts thickly and uniformly waved 

 with transverse dusky bars, bordered with light reddish. Bill, legs and feet, 

 dark greenish black. Youncj. Upper parts a uniform light greyish ash, the 

 blackish feathers appearing at intervals ; these and the dusky scapulars and 

 wing coverts bordered with white. Upper tail coverts white, scarcely marked 

 with dusky. Primaries as in the adult. Under parts white, the jugulum with 

 an ashy suffusion, and obsoletely streaked. Slight traces of the reddish 

 auriculars. Bill dusky black, legs and feet light greenish yellow. 



Length 9-25, extent 16-75, wing 5-1, tail 2-3. Tarsus 1'6, middle toe 1, 

 tibia exposed 1 inch. 

 Habitat. — North America, east of the Rocky Mountains. 

 The preceding diagnosis would characterize the species sufficiently well for 

 ordinary purposes ; but in view of the uncertainty whether there are not two 

 or more species to be enumerated as iuliabitants of North America, a some- 

 what more extended description may not be considered unnecessary. The 

 following is taken from a very perfect male from Great Slave Lake in spring 

 plumage ; and the description of the supposed young is from a specimen from 

 the Red Fork of the Arkansas. 



The feathers extend on the lower mandible nearly in the form of a riglit 

 angle, their upper outline being about parallel with the culmen, to a distance 

 beyond those on the upper equal to half the distance of those between the 

 rami. The crown of the head is blackish, streaked with white and with red- 

 dish. An ill-defined light line over the eye commences about half way be- 

 tween the eye and bill, and extends to tlie occiput, widening posteriorly. 

 There is a dusky line between the eye and bill. The auriculars are light 

 chestnut red, which color extends as a line beneath and before the eye to the 

 white stripe above ; interrupted by this, it commences above the stripe and 

 passes over the side of the occiput to the nape, where it is confluent with the 

 one on the opposite side. The hind neck is simply streaked with dusky and 

 whitish. The middle of the back is black, each feather edged and tipped with 

 light yellowish, which encroaches upon tlie central black in two or three irregu- 

 lar indentations. On the scapulars the edgings are tinged with reddisli, and 

 the indentations are more numerous and regular. The long tertials are black- 

 ish, evenly edged with chestnut passing into whitish at the tip. All the 

 feathers of the back have a greenish gloss. The secondaries and greater 

 coverts are light ashy edged with white, the lesser coverts darker with light 

 borders. The primaries are dusky, their tips black, the shaft of the first 

 brown passing into white, of the others black passing into brown ; the tips of 

 all black. The centre of the rump is dusky, the sides nearly white ; the upper 

 tail coverts white with numerous sagittate or wavy bars of deep dusky. The 

 tail is very light ash, the central feathers scarcely darker, all with the margins 

 and a central shaft field white, most of the inner vane of the two outer being 

 white. The under parts are white ; the throat very sparsely marked with 

 minute dusky streaks, which on the jugulum are much larger and more i\\\- 

 merous ; these streaks on the breast change to transverse wavy bars of dusky 

 bordered with reddish, which uniformly cover the whole under parts. These 

 lines are thickest and most distinct on the breast, growing more obsolete in 

 the middle of the belly, and are largest on the sides under the wings, where 

 the reddish margins fill up the space between the bars on the same feather. 

 There is little reddish on the under tail coverts, where the bars become mort- 

 or less sagittate. 



The young is very difi'erent from the adult in color, but presents much the 

 same form and size. The upper parts are of a uniform light ashy, the blackisli 

 of the adult aippearing in irregular patches. These dark feathers, as well as 

 the scapulars, wing coverts and tertials are edged witli white, the latter 



1861.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



slightly tinged with reddish. The wings and tail are much as in the adult, 

 the tipper tail coverts, however, scarcely barred. The under parts are white ; 

 the jugulum, and, to some extent, the sides under the wings with a lighter 

 wash of the color of the back, and with very obsolete streaks of dusky. The 

 under tail coverts laterally are slightly streaked with dusky. There is an 

 indistinct white line over the eye, and a dusky one between the eye and bill. 

 The auriculars show traces of the reddish, but there is none to be perceived 

 on the nape or sides of the occiput. The bill is black, as in the adult, but the 

 legs are very different, being light greenish yellow. 



The synonymy of this Sandpiper, in consequence of its very remarkable 

 form and colors, is definite and well determined, though, as will be seen by the 

 list given, various names have been applied to it by different authors. It was 

 first introduced to the scientific world in 1826, by Bonaparte, in the Annals of 

 the N. Y. Lyceum, under the name of Tringa himantopus. By the same author 

 it was afterwards placed in his subgenus Heiulpalama, (subsequently erected 

 into a genus.) The type of this, however, being, as already stated, the T. 

 semipalmata of Wilson, the name cannot of course be retained. Nearly all 

 authors who speak of it employ Hemipalama, giving it either subgeneric or 

 full generic rank. Lambeye, however, places the bird in Totanus, probably 

 with reference to the long legs and the webbing of the toes. Tringa Douglassii 

 of Swainson, is undoubtedly the present bird in mature plumage, though the 

 figure indicates a more rufescent state of plumage than I have ever seen. The 

 Trinfja himantopus "Bon." of the same author, Nuttall, (page 40 of tHe 

 Manual,) very precipitately "ventures to consider as a distinct species from 

 the preceding" {T. himantopus,) and names it Tringa (Hemipalama) Audu- 

 bonii, though retaining both the T, himantopus Bon. and Douglassii Sw. I 

 have little doubt, however, that all three names refer to the same bird, the 

 Micropalama himantopus of Baird (General Report, page 726) and of the present 

 article. 



EREUNETES Illiger. 



Freunetef!, Illiger, Prod. 1811, 262 ; typus E. petrijicatus, 111. 



Hemipalama, Bonaparte, Obs. Wils. 1825, 88. Typus T. semipalmata, Wils. 



Nee syn. 1828. 

 Heteropoda, Nuttall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. 136. Typus idem. Nee Latreillei, 1804, 



fide Gen. Rep. 

 Char. Bill variable, about as long as the head, straight, quite stout, both 

 mandibles deeply grooved to the considerably expanded, sensitive, vascular 

 tip. Wings long, pointed ; secondaries deeply obliquely incised ; tertials nar- 

 row and elongated. Tail moderate, doubly emarginate, the central feathers 

 pointed and projecting. Tarsus rather longer than middle toe, usually about 

 equal to the bill. Bare portion of tibia two-tliirds the tarsus. Toes connected 

 by a broad basal web, and broadly margined. Hind toe well developed. 



A genus well characterized among the Tringem by the extensive webbing of 

 the toes, a feature by which it may be readily distinguished from all other 

 genera, except Micropalama. The other diflferences, however, from that genus 

 are very great. The bill is much shorter, being about equal to the head, 

 instead of very much longer. The middle toe is nearly equal to the tarsus, 

 and the bare portion of the tibia is much less. The colors are very diflferent. 

 On the other hand Ereunetes comes very near to Tringa, with which it agrees 

 in almost every particular, except that of the semipalmation of the toes. It 

 appears to form the natural link between Micropalama- and Tringa proper. 



According to Cassin, (Gen. Rep. 724,) the genus Ereunetes of Illiger, is based 

 upon a bird which has been proved, by actual examination of the type speci- 

 men, to be the Tringa semipalmata, Wils. Ereunetes must therefore supersede 

 Hemipalama, Bon., and Heteropoda, Nutt., both instituted upon the same 

 type. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Ereunetes pusiLLtJS, (L.) Cassin. — Semipalmated Sandpiper. 



Tringa ctnclus, Doininicensis minor, Brisson, Ornith. 1760, v. tab. 37, fig. 3, 



[baud dubie.] 

 Tringa pusilla, Linnseus, Syst. Nat. 1766, i. 252, [in prsecedentem instituta.] 

 [Nee Meyer. ; nee Becbst. ; nee VVils.] Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. 681. 

 Latbam. Ind. Orn. 1790, ii. 737. 

 ? Tringa pusilla, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 452. 



Ereunetes petrijicatus, lUiger, Prod. 1811, 262. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 724. 

 Tringa semipalmata, Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, vii. 131, tab. Ixiii. fig. 3 ; id. 

 Ord. Ed. 1829, iii. 132 ; id. Brewer. Ed. 1840, 542, fig. 225 ; ib. Syn. 725. 

 Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 462. Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 381. 

 Audubon, Orn. Biog. v. 1839, 111, tab. 408 ; id. Syn. 1839, 236 ; id. 

 Birds. Amer. 1842, v. 277, tab. 336. Giraud, Birds L. 1. 1844, 239. New- 

 berry, P. R. R. Surv. 1857. vi. 100. 

 Tringa {Hemipalama) semipalmata, Bonaparte, Obs. Wils. 1825, num. 212; id. 



Specc. Comp. 1827, 62. 

 Hemipalama semipalmata, Lambeye, Av. Cubse, 1850, 96. 

 Tringa (Heteropoda) semipalmata, Nuttali, Man. 1834, ii. 136. 

 Heteropoda semipalmata, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 49. Dekay, N. Y. 



Fauna, 1844, 236, tab. 86, fig. 195. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 580. 

 Ereunetes semipalmatus, Cabanis, Schom. Reise. iii. 758, fide Gen. Rep. Bona- 

 parte, Comptes Rend, xliii. 1856, fide Gen. Rep. Cabanis, Journ. fur 

 Orn. 1856, 419, fide Gen. Rep. 

 f Heteropoda mauri, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 49, fide Gen. Rep. 

 ? Ereunetes mauri, Gundlach, Cab. Journ. 1856, 419, fide Gen. Rep. 

 ? Hemipalama minor. Lambeye, Av. Cubse, 1850, 97. 

 Tringa brevirostris, Spix, Av. Bras. 1825, ii. 76, fide Gen. Rep. 

 ? Pelidna Brissoni, Lesson, Man. d'Orn. 1828, ii. 277, [T. pusillam, Linn, citat.] 

 Ereunetes pusillus, Cassin, Proc. Acad. N. S. 1860, xiii. 195. 



Sp. char. Bill stout, straight, variable in length, usually about equal to 

 the head, the tip considerably expanded and punctulate. Feathers extending 

 on the base of the bill to a nearly equal distance on both mandibles, their 

 outline straight and vertical ; those between the rami reaching but little fur- 

 ther. First primary usually longer than the second, the rest equally gradu- 

 ated. Upper tail coverts very long ; tail moderate, doubly emarginate, cen- 

 tral feathers pointed and projecting. Adult. — Upper parts variegated with 

 ashy, pure black, bright chestnut and white, each feather having a terminal 

 black field, and being margined with reddish and tipped with white or ashy, 

 Tertials dusky brown, edged with ashy or light chestnut ; wing coverts and 

 secondaries dusky ash edged with ashy white. Primaries deep dusk}^ ; shaft 

 of the first white, the central portions of the others the same, their bases brown 

 and tips black. Rump and upper tail coverts brownish black, the outer pair 

 of the latter white barred with dusky. Central tail feathers dusky brown, 

 the others light greyish ash scarcely edged with white. Beneath white ; the 

 throat and breast slightly rufescent, and with oval or cordate spots of brown- 

 ish black, most numerous across the breast, and extending sparsely along the 

 sides as shaft lines. Middle of belly and under tail coverts white, mostly 

 immaculate. Bill and feet greenish black. 



Length 6-5, wing 3'75, tail 2-1 ; bill (average) 1 inch ; tarsus "85, toe -S, 

 tibia, bare, "SO. 



Habitat. — Entire temperate North America. Bahaia Islands. 



The present bird, the single admitted* American representative of a genus 



* I am by no means satisfied that but a single species of Ereunetes exists in North 

 America. The differences in size, in length and proportions of the larsus even, and es- 

 pecially in the bill, cause it to seem almost impossible that all the specimens before me 

 are specifically the same. Thus, the difference m the length of the tarsus, between the 



1861.] 13 




178 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



of sucli peculiar cliaracters, requires comparison with no other sandpiper. 

 Actodromas minutilla has much the same pattern of coloration, and sometimes 

 approaches it in size ; but the other differences are too great to allow of their 

 being confounded. 



The bill of this species varies most remarkably in length, the diflference 

 being four-tenths of an inch ; it is always, however, quite stout. The tibia and 

 tarsus vary somewhat, but within narrow limits. The proportions of the 

 quills vary, but the first is usually longest. The tail is very decidedly doubly 

 emarginate, the difference between the outer and next feather being nearly 

 one-tenth of an inch ; the third is the shortest. The upper tail coverts are 

 very long, as are also the tertials. The winter and immature plumage shows 

 little or none of the reddish, the feathers being mostly ashy with lighter bor- 

 ders. The young in July and August have scarcely any traces of the spots 

 beneath, being almost entirely white, with a light buff wash across the breast. 

 There is also much more white on the margins of the feathers of the upper 

 parts. 



With the exception of Tringa canutas and Ancylocheilus subarquafa, there is 

 perhaps no North American Sandpiper which has received such a variety of 

 names as the present. Fortunately, however, the proper name to be employed 

 is now pretty definitely determined. The subject of the generic appellation 

 has already been discussed under Ereunetes, and it now only remains to settle 

 the question of the specific denomination. The first notice of the species is in 

 1760, by Brisson, who, in his Ornitholoijia, describes and figures a Tringa cin- 

 clus Dominicensis minor, which can be no other than the present bird. The 

 description applies well, and the figure plainly shows the webbing of the toes, 

 a feature entirely peculiar among the smaller Tringete. It was upon this bird 

 that Linnseus, in 1766, based his Tringa pusilla, which name being the first 

 applied to the bird in the binomial system, has priority over all others, and 

 must be employed. In 1811, at the time of the founding of the genus Ereunetes, 

 of Illiger, that author named the bird E. petrijicatus. Cassin, in the General 

 Report, though admitting that T. pusilla, Linn., is really this species, does 

 not change lUiger's specific appellation, concerning which all doubt is removed 

 by the actual examination of the type specimen. Very recently, however, 

 in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy, he has given the bird as 

 Ereunetes pusillus, Cass., the name by which it should be known. In 1813 

 Wilson named the bird T, semipalmata, which designation being a most appro- 

 priate one, has been in general use among modera ornithologists, though re- 

 ferred by different authors successively to Tringa, Heteropoda and Ereunetes. 

 The Pelidna Brissoni, of Lesson, who quotes T. pusilla, Linn., is probably the 

 present bird. 



The remarkable variations in size and in the depth of the bill to which this 

 bird is subject, have given rise to several nominal species. The Hemipalama 



largest and smallest of these, amounts to nearly two-tenths of an inch ; and in length of 

 bill to about four-tenths, the latter being more than half the entire length of the shorter 

 bill. The shortest bills appear fully as stout as the longest. These differences do not 

 seem to depend upon locality, being found in specimens from the same region, while 

 specimens from widely separated localities are absolutely identical. Thus, an excessively 

 short-billed bird from Maryland is identical with one from Nebraslia, while very large 

 and long- billed specimens from Georgia, Utah and the Pacific coast do not differ appre- 

 ciably. iSpecimens, however, from the same locality, and undoubtedly of the same species, 

 exhibit much variation in size, length of bill and tarsus, amount of red or white above, 

 and character of the spots beneath ; so that without a full series of the common Atlantic 

 bird before me, and especially in the uncertainty, if two or more species be admitted, to 

 which one the name pusilla belongs, I have preferred to consider them as specifically 

 identical. Stdl, il would not be surprising if a careful and extended examination of a large 

 aeries of Ereunetes from all localities on the continent should substantiate two or even 

 three good species : Tringa semipalmata, of Wilson, Hemipalama minor, of Gundlach, and 

 Heteropoda mauri, of Bonaparte. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 179 



minor of Gundlach is founded upon shortness of bill as a character ; ae is also 

 (fide Gen. Rep.) the Tringa brevirostris of Spix. By the same authority the 

 Heteropoda mauri of Bonaparte is considered as merely a larger race of the 

 present species. 



TRINGA Linnaeus. 



Tringa, Linnaeus, Sjst. Nat. 1735. Tyups T. canuiui, L. (fide G. R. Gray.) 

 Calidris, Cuvier, Regne An. 1817, Typus T. canutus, L. (Nee. Guv. 1800, cujus 



typus T. arenaria, i. fide G. R. Gray.") 

 Canutus, Brehm, 1830, (fide G. R. Gray.) 



Char. — Bill about as long as, or rather longer than, the head, straight, 

 stout, somewhat compressed, widening uniformly from the middle to the 

 slightly expanded, rather hard tip ; the culmen depressed ou the terminal half 

 to the expansion at tip, and obsoletely furrowed. Both mandibles deeply 

 grooved to the tip. Nostrils very large and placed far forward in the upper 

 groove. Feathers extending on the lower mandible much further than on the 

 upper, and nearly as far as those betw*een the rami. Wings long, pointed, first 

 primary decidedly longest. Secondaries moderately incised. Tertials short, 

 broad, and comparatively stiff. Tail rather short, nearly even, the central 

 feathers projecting but little if any. Legs short and very stout; tarsus usually 

 shorter than the bill ; longer than the middle toe. Tibial feathers reaching 

 nearly to joint; tibiae bare for nearly two-thirds the tarsus. Toes very short 

 and stout, free at base, widely margined; outer lateral longer than inner. 

 Hind toe present, well developed. Claws short, stout, blunt, much curved, 

 dilated on the inner edge. Size large, general form stout. 



In the above diagnosis I have drawn the characters of the genus so as to 

 include only the type (canutus) upon which it was founded. In this acceptation 

 it may be considered as typical of the section, embodj'ing as it does the most 

 characteristic features of the group, and presenting their usual variations : very 

 great in plumage and in tiie length of the bill, and slight in the proportions of 

 the legs and shape of the wings and tail. The esseniial characters lie in the 

 stout, moderately long, straight bill, which usually considerably exceeds the 

 tarsus, which latter is much longer than the very short stout toes ; the long 

 tibial feathers, long pointed wings, and short nearly eveu tail. The peculiar 

 proportions of bill and legs is shared by no other Sandpiper, so far as my 

 knowledge extends, except Calidris, which is evidently closely allied. This 

 genus, however, is at once distinguished by the marked character of the 

 absence of the hmd toe. The affinities of Ereuneles have already been adverted 

 to. Arquatella presents the next closest relationship, but is well characterized 

 by the extremely abbreviated tarsus, rounded tail, and some other features. 



Tringa is among the oldest of genera, having been established by Linnaeus in 

 1735. As usual with old Linnaean genera, it has oeen used with great latitude, 

 all the species which now compose the section having been included in it. It 

 seems, however, to represent a form from which all others are sufficiently dif- 

 ferent to require full generic rank. Its synonyms are (fide G. R. Gray) Calidris 

 of Cuvier, 1800, (not of 1817, of which the type'is T. arenaria, L.,) and Canutus 

 of Brehm, 1830. 



North America possesses but a single representative of the genus as restricted. 

 The Tringa Cooperi of Baird, which has been referred to it, seems to fall more 

 naturally under Actodromas. Its relationships will be found fully discussed 

 under that head. 



Tringa canutus Linnaeus — Red-breasted Sandpiper. 



Tringa canutus, Linnffius, Svst. Nat. i, 1766, 251. Latham, lud. Orn. 1790, ji. 

 738. Pennant, Arct. Zool. 1785, ii. 473. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788. Pal- 

 las, Zoog. Rosso-As. 1811, ii. 197. Temminck, Man. d'Orn. 1820, ii. 627 



1861.] , 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Jenyns, Manual, 1835, 213. Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 49. Schinz. 



Europ. Faun. 1840, i. 326. Macgillivray, Man. Brit. Orn. 1842, ii. 67, 



Dekay, N. Y. F. 1844, 243, tab. 85, fig. 194, et. tab. 97, fig. 218. Schlegel, 



Rev. Crit. 1844, 88. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 579. Degland, Orn. Eur. 



1849, ii. 219. Bonaparte, Rev. Crit. 1850, 185. Parzudaki, Cat. Ois. Eur, 



1859, 14. Meyer, Brit. Birds, 1857, v. 67. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 715. 

 Trivga ferriiginea, Brunnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, 53. Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, 



xxxiv. 466. 

 Tringa cinerea, Brunnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, 53. Latliam, Ind. Orn. 1790, ii. 733. 



Pennant, Arct. Zool. 1785, 474. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars ii. 673. 



Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, vii. 36, tab. Ivii. fig. 2; id. Ord. Ed. 1829, iii. 



142 ; id. Brewer. Ed. 1840, 482, fig. 224 ; ibid. Syn. 725. Lichtenstein, 



Verz. 1823, 72. Lesson, Man. d'Orn. 1828, ii. 283. Swainson, F. B. A. 



1831, ii. 387. Nuttall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. 125. 

 ?Tringa mislralis, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars ii. 679. Latham, Ind. Orn 



1790, ii. 737. 

 •Tringa navia, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars ii. 681. Latham, Ind. Orn. 1790, 



ii. 732. Pennant, Arct. Zool. 1785, ii. 480. 

 Tringa grisea^GmtVm, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars. ii. 681. Latham, Ind. Orn. 1790, 



ii. 733. 

 Tringa islandica, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars. ii. 682. Latham, Ind. Orn. 



1790, ii. 737. Pennant, Arct. Zool. 1785, ii. 476. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 



1838, iv. 130, tab. 315; id. Syn. 1839, 232; id. Birds Amer. 1842, v. 254, 



tab. 328. Giraud, Birds L. I. 1844, 224. Holboll, Fauna Green. 1846, 38. 



Nilsson, Scand. Faun. 1858, ii. 252. 

 Tringa rtifa, Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, vii. 43, tab. Ivii. fig. 5 ; id. Ord. Ed. 1829, 



iii. 140; id. Brew. Ed. 1840, 487, fig. 227; ibid. Syn. 725. 

 Tringa (Tringa) camttvs, Bonaparte, Cat. Met. 1842, 61. 

 Tringa {Tringa) islandica^ Bonaparte, Speech. Comp. 1827, 62. 

 Tringa {Tringa) rvfa, Bonaparte, Obs. W'ils. 1825, 93. 



Sp. Char. — Largest of North American Tringew. Bill stout, straight, rather 

 longer than the head, upper mandible widely and deeply grooved to the expan- 

 sion at tip. Feathers extending on lower mandible much farther than on upper, 

 and nearly as far as those between the rami. First primary decidedly longest ; 

 tail short, nearly even ; legs short, stout; tarsus usually shorter than the bill, 

 but much exceeding the middle toe. Adult in spring. Upper parts brownish- 

 black, each feather broadly tipped and edged with ashy white, tinged with 

 reddish yellow on the scapulars. Rump dark ash, transversely banded with 

 dusky ; upper tail coverts white, with transverse sagittate or crescentic 

 bars of brownish black. Tail greyish ash, edged with ashy white. Outer 

 webs and tips of primaries deep dusky, the inner much lighter. Secondaries 

 and coverts greyish ash, broadly edged and tipped with ashy white. Line over 

 the eye and entire under parts a uniform deep brownish-red, fading into white 

 on the sides posteriorly and the under tail coverts, which latter are marked 

 with sagittate spots of dusky. Legs and feet greenish black. Young in autumn. 

 Upper parts a uniform dark ash, or cinereous, each feather tipped with ashy or 

 pure white, and having a sub-terminal edging of dusky black. Indistinct line 

 over the eye, and whole under parts white, more or less tinged with light red- 

 dish, and the throat, breast and sides with rather sparse, irregularly disposed 

 lines and spots of dusky, which become transverse waved bars on the latter. 



Length 10-5, extent 20-5, wing 6-4, tail 2-7. Bill about 1-4, tarsus 1-2, 

 middle toe 1 inch. Tibia bare -6. 



Eabitat. — Atlantic coast of North America ; Europe. 



This is the largest of the Sandpipers, and, though exceeding all others in the 

 variation of plumage to which it is subject, may yet be easily recognized in all 

 stages by its generic characters, which differ in some marked particulars from 

 those of any other bird of the section. In the above diagnosis are given the 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



plumage of the adult and of the young of the first autumn. These represent 

 the two extremes; but birds may be found of every intermeduxte stage. la 

 respect to form, the bird varies chie3y in the length of the bill and shape of 

 the tail. The bill in adult specimens is always longer than the tarsus, but 

 being dependent somewhat on age, may in young birds be found equal to the 

 tarsus, or even a little shorter. The tail, usually nearly or quite eveu, is some- 

 times in immature birds considerably doubly emarginate ; the central feathers, 

 however, are never pointed and projecting as in Actodromas. As usual among 

 the Tringece, the tarsus and toes do not differ much in length or proportions. 



Tringa canuius is mentioned in the very earliest ornithological writings, and, 

 as is usually the case with those species which vary much in plumage, has 

 received a great variety of names. The older authors instituted nominal 

 species on almost every change of plumage which it undergoes ; but still, these 

 stages are now so well known, that there is little difficulty in identifying the 

 descriptions. The " grisled " and " freckled " sandpipers of Latham and Gmelin, 

 T. grisea and ncevia. as well as, in all probability, the T. australis, Gm., are to be 

 referred to intermediate stages of the present bird. But it is the plumage of 

 the first autumn which has given rise to the most firmly established nominal 

 species, the T. cinerea, Auct. ; it is as different as possible from that of the 

 adult, and at the same time is marked in character and presents but few evi- 

 dences of immaturity. It is not a little singular that as late as 1813 Wilson 

 should give the bird a new name, (T. rtifa,) and say that "of this prettily- 

 marked species I can find no description;" there being already at that date no 

 less than seven different appellations for the bird. Tringa canuius of Linnsus 

 seems to have priority over all others, and is the name now in general use. 



CALIDRI3 Cuvier. 



Calidris, Cuvier, 1799—1800, (fide G. R. Gray;) 1805, (fide Gen. Rep.) Xec 



Calidris, Guv. Regn. An. 1817. ■ 

 Arenaria, Meyer, 1810, (fide G. R. Gray.) Nee Linnaei. 



Char. — Bill stout, straight, about equal to the head or tarsus; tip thick- 

 ened, expanded and rather hard, the culmen just posterior to it somewhat 

 depressed and hollowed. Nostrils situated far forward. Wings long, pointed ; 

 tail short, doubly emarginate, central feathers projecting. Tibia bare for two- 

 thirds the length of the tarsus ; toes very short and widely margined. Hind 

 toe wanting. (General characters of Tringa proper, but without hind toe.) 



A genus well marked by the absence of the hind toe, a feature entirely 

 peculiar among Tringece. In other respects it comes nearest to Tringa proper, 

 with which it has a very close affinity, the bill, tarsus and toes, as well as the 

 tibia, having much the same proportions. The toes, however, are oven shorter, 

 and the tail is doubly emarginate, a feature scarcely seen in Tringa. The bill 

 in its sbort and stout proportions has much the general appearance of that of 

 Charadrius, which fact, in connection with absence of the hind toe, has caused 

 the single species of the genus to be referred to the plovers by some of the 

 older authors. In all other respects, however, as well as in general habits, the 

 bird is a true Sandpiper. 



According to Gray, Calidris of Cuvier, of 1799 — 1800, is founded upon the 

 T. arenaria, L. The name must therefore be employed in the present con- 

 nection, though in 1817 Cuvier gives T. canuius, L. as the type of the genus. 

 Arenaria of Meyer, of 1810, based, according to Gray, upon the T. arenaria, is 

 preoccupied in Botany, that being the name of an old Linnsean genus of plants. 



Calidris akenaria lUiger. — Sauderling. 



Tringa arenaria, Linnajus, Syst. Nat. 1766, i. 251. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 1839, 

 iii. 231, V. 582; id. Syn. 1839, 237: id. Birds Amer. 1842, v. 287, tab. 338. 

 Schlegel, Rev. Crit. 1846, 90. 



1861.] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Trynga tridactyla, Pallas, Zoog. Rosso-As. 1811, ii. 198. 



Charadrivn ca/idris, Linnseus, Syst. Nat. 17fi6, i. 255. Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, 



vii. 68, tab. lix. fig. 4 ; i.L Ord. Ed. 1829, iii. 167 ; id. Brew. Ed. 1840, 503. 

 Charadrius rubidus, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. 688. Wilsen, Am. Orn. 1813, 



vii. 129, fab. Ixiii. fig. 3; 'id. Ord. Ed. 1829, iii. 170; id. Brewer. Ed. 1840, 



541. 

 Arenaria vulgaris, Leisler, (fide G. E. Gray ) 

 Arenaria calidris, Meyer, (fide G. R. Gray.) Degland, Ornith. Europ. 1849, ii. 



240. Lambe.'^e, Av. Cubal. 1850, 100. 

 Calidris arenaria, lliiger. Prod. 1811, 249. Temmiock, Manual, ii. 524. Licb- 



tenstein, Verz. 1823,72. Bonaparte, Obs. Wilson, 1825, v. 105. Swainson, 



F. B. A. 1831, ii. 366. Nuttall, Manual, 1834, 4. Jenyns, Manual, 1835, 



183. Schinz. Eur. Faun. 1840, i. 298. Bonaparte, Comp. List. 1838,50; id. 



Catal. Metod. 1842, 61. Macgillivray, Man. Brit. Orn. 1842, 65. Giraud, 



Birds L. I. 1844, 243. Gray, Genera, 1849. iii. 581. Bonaparte, Revue Crit. 



1850, 184. Cassin, U. S. Ast. Exp. 1855, ii. 194; id. Gen. Rep. 1858, 723. 



Nilsson, Scand. Faun. 1858, ii. 255. Cooper et Suckley, Nat. Hist. Wash. 



Terr. 18G0, 241. 

 Calidris iringoides, Vieillot, Gal. Ois. 1834, ii. 95, tab. ccxxxiv. 

 Calidris Americana, Brehm, Vog. Deut. 1831, 675, (fide Gen. Rep.) 



Sp. Char. — Bill short, stout, straight, the tip much thickened and expanded. 

 Upper mandible widely, lower narrowly but distinctly, grooved. First primary 

 decidedly longest. Tail doubly emarginate, the central feathers pointed and 

 much projecting. Legs moderate, toes very short and widely margined. Adult 

 in spring. Entire upper parts and neck all round, variegated with black, light 

 ashy and bright reddish ; on the back and scapulars each feather having a central 

 black field, and being broadly margined and tipped with ashy or reddish. 

 Under parts white, immaculate. Outer -webs and tips of primaries deep 

 brownish black, inner light ashy. A white spot at base of inner primaries. 

 Secondaries mostly pure white; the outer vanes and part of inner on the latter 

 half du?ky. Greater coverts dusky, broadly tipped and narrowly edged with 

 pure white. Rump, upper tail coverts and central tail feathers dusky, tipped 

 and narrowly edged with ashy white; lateral tail feathers very light ash, nearly 

 white. Legs and feet black. Young in autumn. No traces of the reddish. 

 Upper parts very light ash, each feather fading into white on the edges, and 

 with a narrow shaft line of dusky. Entire under parts pure white. Scapulars 

 dusky, edged with whitish. Other parts as in the adult. 



Length 7-5 to 8, extent 15 to 16; wing 49, tail 2-25. Bill about 1 inch, 

 tarsus rather less; middle toe -75. 



Habitat. — Temperate North America ; South America; Europe. 



In the above diagnosis I have given the breeding plumage and that of the 

 young the first autumn; but a more usual winter dress differs from either. 

 There are traces of the reddish on the upper parts generally and on the breast. 

 Each feather above is brownish-black, regularly indented and tipped with ashy 

 white, thus giving to the upper parts the appearance of being evenly mottled. 

 There is a buflf tinge on the breast, and also on the tips of the rump feathers. 

 The bend of the wing is nearly as dark as in the adult. At all times the under 

 parts of the bird from the jugulum are pure white. 



As stated in the remarks upon the genus, the peculiarities of the form of this 

 bird liave caused it to be considered aa a Charadrius by some of the older 

 authors. Linnaeus erred so much as to refer it to that genus in one state of 

 plumage, and to classify it as a Sandpiper in another. Wilson, though retain- 

 ing the species in Charadrius, remarks upon its evident affinity to the latter 

 group. The Charadrius rubidus of Gmelin and Wilson represenrs the adult- 

 breeding filiimage, and the C. calidris of the same authors, the young bird. But 

 the peculiarities of the bird are so great that it was very early removed from 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



both Tringa and Charadrius, and a genus Calidris formed for its reception. In 

 1811, Illiger called the bird C. arenaria, which is the name generally employed 

 by ornithologists since that date. Audubon^ however, in all his works retains 

 the species in Tringa. I have found but two instances of the use of Arenaria 

 calidris, Mey., which are those given in the list of synonyms. Calidris tringoides 

 of Vieillot is undoubtedly the present bird, as is also (fide Gen. Rep ) the C. 

 Ainericana of Brehm. 



ARQUATELLA Baird. 

 Arquatella, Baird, Gen. Rep. 1858, 714. Typus Tringa maritima, Briinn. 



Char. — Bill variable, always longer than the head, straight or slightly de- 

 curved, very slender, much compressed, tip scarcely expanded. Groove in 

 lower mandible shallow, sometimes nearly obsolete. Wings long, pointed. 

 Tail moderate, cuneiform. Tibial feathers very long, covering the joint. 

 Tarsus extremely abbreviated, much shorter than the bill or middle toe. Toes 

 very long, broadly margined and flattened beneath. Hind toe very short; claws 

 short and blunt. 



In the remarkably abbreviated tarsus, much surpassed by the loog toes, — in 

 the lengthened tibial feathers, cuneiform tail and slender compressed bill, — Ar- 

 quatella constitutes perhaps the most marked section of the Tringew, and one 

 well worthy of full generic rank. Indeed it is a little remarkable that it was 

 not earlier separated from the other allied genera. By most authors it has been 

 considered as a true Tringa, and placed in close connection with T canutus. 

 Bonaparte, however, gives it as a Pelilna, though Cuvier, in establishing that 

 genus, retains it in his Calidris, (of 1817 = Tringa proper.) Besides its striking 

 peculiarities of form, the colors of the single S{)ecies is very different from that 

 of any other known Sandpiper. The name Arquatella is Pallas's specific appel- 

 lation of the bird. 



Arquatella maritima (Briinn.) Baird. — Purple Sandpiper. 



Tringa maritima, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, 54. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars 



ii. 678. Latham, Ind. Orn. 1796, ii. 731. Pennant, Arct. Zool. 1785, 481. 



Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 471. Temminck, Manual, 1820, ii. 619. 



Lesson, Manual, 1828, ii. 283. Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 382. Nuttall, 



Manual, 1834, ii. 115. Jenyns, Manual, 1835, 211. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 



1835, iii. 558, tab. 284; id. Syn. 1839, 233; id. Birds Am. 1842, v. 261, 



tab. 330. Macgillivray,'Man. Brit. Birds, 1842, ii. 67. Schinz, Eur. Faun. 



1840, i. 324. Schlegel, Rev. Grit. 1844, 88. Giraud, Birds L. I. 1844, 236. 



Dekay, N. Y. Fauna, 1844, ii. 237, tab. 87, fig. 98. Hollbol, Fauna Green. 



1846, 39. Degland, Orn. Eur. 1849, ii. 222. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 579. 



Parzudaki, Cat. Ois. Eur. 1856, 14. Meyer, Brit. Birds, v. 1857, 80. Nils- 

 son, Scand. Faun. 1858, ii. 235. 

 Pelidna maritima, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 49; id. Rev. Grit. 1850, 185 ; id. 



Cat. Met. 1842, 60. " 

 ?Tringa striata, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. 1766, i. 248. Latham, Ind. Orn. 1790, ii. 



733. Pennant, Arct. Zool. 1785, ii. 472. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars 



ii. 672. 

 Tringa iindata, Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764, 55. Latham, Ind. Orn. 1790, ii. 732. 



Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. pars ii. 678. Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 



470. 

 Tringa nigricans, Montagu, Linn. Trans. 1796, iv. 40, (fide Gen. Rep.) 

 Trynga arquatella, Pallas, Zoog. Rosso-As. 1811, ii. 190. 

 Tringa canadensis, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1719, xxxiv. 453. 

 Tringa {Arquatella) maritima, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 717. 



Sp. Char. — Form and proportions typical of the genus. Adult. Entire upper 

 parts a lustrous very dark bluish or blackish ash, with purple and violet 



1861.J 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



reflections, and each feather with a lighter border. Greater and lesser wing 

 coverts, tertials and scapulars edged and tipped with white. Secondaries 

 mostly white. Primaries deep dusky, the shafts dull white except at tip, where 

 they are black. Upper tail coverts and central tail feathers brownish black 

 with purplish reflections, the outer pair of the former white barred with dusky. 

 Lateral tail feathers light ashy. Jugulum and breast bluish ash, each feather 

 of the latter edged with white, and the ash extending along the sides beneath 

 the wings. Rest of under parts white, immaculate. Legs, feet and bill at base 

 light flesh-color; rest of bill greenish black. Young in September. Upper parts 

 much the color of the adult, but with each feather broadly edged and tipped 

 with light buff or reddish yellow. Light edging of wing coverts ashy instead 

 of pure white. Under parts everywhere thickly mottled with ashy and dusky, 

 deepest on the breast aud jugulum. 



Length 8 to 9, extent 15 to 16, wing about 5, tail 2-6. Bill above (average) 

 1-2 ; tarsus -9 ; middle toe 1-1 ; tibia bare -45. 



Habitat. — Atlantic coast from Greenland to Florida. Europe. 

 Except in the very immature plumage given above, this Sandpiper varies but 

 little in color, the difference between adult and young being chiefly in the 

 depth and intensrty of the tints. As the bird advances toward maturity, the 

 upper parts become darker and more lustrous, the edgings of the wing coverts 

 and scapulars more conspicuous and better defined. The mottling of the under 

 parts is gradually restricted till it forms the well defined, uniform dark ash of 

 the jugulum and breast, the sides being always sparsely streaked, and the rest 

 of the under parts white, immaculate. The youngest specimens, however, show 

 a very decided greenish or purplish lustre. While the length and proportions 

 of the tibia, tarsus and toes are remarkably constant, the size of the whole bird, 

 and more particularly that of the bill, varies greatly. The difference in the 

 length of the bill of five specimens now before me amounts to three-tenths of 

 an inch, and in that of the whole bird to considerably more than an inch. A 

 specimen from Greenland is the smallest, having the wing four-tenths of an 

 inch shorter than in one from New Hampshire. In this specimen the legs and 

 feet are dusky-greea instead of flesh-colored, and the bill is scarcely lighter at 

 base. 



Owing to the striking peculiarities of form and color which this species pre- 

 sents, there has been, contrary to what is usually the case with the Sandpipers 

 known to the earlier authors, comparatively little confusion regarding it. As 

 far as I have been able to ascertain, it has been considered as a true Tringa by 

 all authors except Bonaparte (who refers it to Pclidna) up to the time of the 

 General Report, in which work it is very properly made the type of a distinct 

 genus. Most authors have also adopted the original specific appellation given 

 by Briinnich in 1704; and I have not met with any other name in works pub- 

 lished since 1819, in which year it is given as " Le tringa cendre du Canada, 

 Tringa Canadensis, Lath." by Vieillot. There can be no doubt with regard to 

 the bird which is referred to under this head; for after a description which 

 applies well to the usual immature plumage, (not that of the very young given 

 in the diagnosis,) the author adds, " mais ce qui distingue cet oiseau de ceux 

 de son genre, c'est d'avoir les jambes couvertes de plumes jusqu' an talon, et 

 meme au-dessous," — a feature which exclusively characterizes the ^4. marilima. 

 Tringa undata of Briinnich, Gmelin, kc, is considered as the young of this 

 species in the plumage given in the diagnosis, where the light borders of the 

 feathers of the upper parts and the transverse mottling of the lower give to the 

 bird a somewhat wavy appearance. Tringa striata of Linnaeus, Gmelin, &c., is 

 generally supposed to refer to this species. Pallas gives it as Trynga arqua' 

 tella, an appellation from which the generic name is derived. 



ANCYLOCHEILUS Kaup. 

 Erolia, Vieillot, Analyse, 1816, 55; Typus Scolopax subarquata Guld., secundum 

 G. R. Gray et Gen. Rep. {JErolia, Vieill., Gal. 1834 = Erolia.) 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Ancylocheihis, Kaup, Sk. Ent. Eur. Thierw. 1839, 50; Typus Tringa subarquata, 

 Temm. 



Char. — Bill much longer than the head, slender, compressed, considerablj^ 

 decurved, the tip not expanded, and rather hard. Grooves in both mandibles 

 very narrow, but distinct. Wings long, pointed. Tail very short, nearly even. 

 Legs long, slender ; tarsus and tibia both lengthened, the latter exposed for 

 nearly or quite half the length of the former. Toes moderate, slender, slightly 

 margined, the middle one about three-fourths the tarsus. 



The essential characters of this well-marked genus lie in the long, slender, 

 decurved bill, with hard unexpanded tip, the long slender legs, and very short, 

 nearly even tail. In addition, it may be stated that the groove in the upper 

 mandible, except just anterior to the nostrils, is very narrow, though deep ; the 

 feathers extend between the rami scarcely further than those on the side of the 

 lower mandible, which exceed those on the upper but little ; the tip of the bill 

 is pointed and acute ; the claws are all very slender and acute. In form this 

 genus approaches nearest to Pelidna, from which, however, it is perfectly dis- 

 tinct and easily recognizable. The bill of the latter is much stouter, depressed 

 instead of compressed, and the feathers extend to some distance between the 

 rami of the lower jaw. The tail is longer and deeply doubly emarginate. An 

 important difference is to be found in the legs, in the proportion of the tibia, 

 tarsus and toes. In Pelidna the toe is nearly equal to the tarsus, which is con- 

 siderably more abbreviated than in Anajlocheilus. The tibiae appear to be 

 exposed to a less extent. 



According to Gray and to the General Report, Erolia of Vieillot (Anal. 1816, 

 ut supra) is founded upon the present bird. With every disposition to rely 

 upon such authority, in a careful examination of the characters of the genus in 

 in that work and in the Nouv. Diet. (1817,) as well as oi JErolia in the Galerie, 

 (1834,) I have been unable to reconcile them with those of the bird now under 

 consideration. In all these works, apparently the most important characters 

 are stated to be the absence of the hind toe, and the presence of a membrane 

 between the outer and middle, neither of which features exist in the Scolopax 

 subarquala, Guld. In the Galerie, reference is made to the Nouv. Diet., (x. page 

 •109,) where the genus is fully characterized. A portion of the diagnosis is 

 as follows: — "Erolie, Erolia Yiq[\[. Genre de I'Ordre des Echassiers, et de la 

 famille des jEgialites. — trois doigts devant, point derrihre ; les exterieurs unis ii 

 la base par une membrane, I'enterne libre. Ce genre ne content qu'une espece 

 qui se trouve en Afrique, et dont on ne connoit que la depouille.''' It will be 

 seen that the author places the bird (''dont on ne connoit que la depouille '') 

 not only ia a different genus, but in a family entirely distinct from the Sand- 

 pipers ; and the description of'L'Erolie varie, Erolia variegata, VieilL, which 

 follows, I cannot identify with any plumage of Tringa subarquata with which I 

 am acquainted. It should also be borne in mind that Vieillot (Nouv. Diet., ut 

 infra) correctly describes the present bird under the name of " Le tringa cocorli, 

 T. subarquata, Temm.," and no reference whatever is made to Erolia. Now, it 

 is by no means impossible that Erolia variegata may have been positively 

 identified with T. subarquata by actual examination of the type specimen, or 

 otherwise ; but even in that case I do not think the name should be adopted. 

 The position of Erolia variegata in the system is very different from that which 

 Tringa subarquata occupies, and the characters of the genus as published to the 

 world are widely at variance with those presented by that bird. 



From these considerations therefore I have adopted Ancyloclieilus of Kaup, 

 (1829,) concerning which there is no doubt. 



Ancylocheilus subarquata (Guld.) Kaup.— Curlew Sandpiper. 



Scolopax subarquata, Guldenstaedt, Nov. Com. Petrop. 1775, xix. 471, tab. xviii. 

 fide Gen. Rep. Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. 658. 



'1861.] 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Scolopax afiicanus, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. 655. 



Tringa subarquata, Tetnminck, Man. 1820, ii. 609. Vieillot, Nouv. Diet, xxxiv. 

 1819,454. Nuttall, Man. 1834, ii. 104. Jenyns, Man. 1835, 208. Audubon, 

 Orn. Blog. 1835, iii. 444; id. Birds Amer. 1842, v. 269, tab. 333; id. Syn. 

 1839. Schinz, Eur. Faun. 1840, i. 320. Macgillivray, Man. Brit. Orn. 1842, 

 ii. 71. Giraud, Birds L. I. 1844, 237. Schlegel, Rev. Grit. 1844, 88. Dekay, 

 N. Y. Fauna, 1844, 239, tab. 95, fig. 213. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 579. 

 Degland, Orn. Eur. 1849, ii. 225. Meyer, Brit. Birds, 1857, v. 91. Nilsson, 

 Scand. Faun. 1858, ii. 239. 

 Pelidna subarquata, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 50 ; id. Rev. Crit. 1850, 185. 

 Ancylocheilus subarquata, Kaup, Eur. Thierw. 1829. Parzudaki, Cat. Ois. Eur. 



1856, 14. 

 Numenius subarquata, Bechstein, Nat. Deut. iv. 148, fide Temminck. 

 Nunienius pygmaus, Bechstein, Nat. Deut. iv. 135, fide Temminck. 

 Numenius ferrugineus, Meyer, fide Vieillot. 

 Numenius africanus, Latham, Ind. Orn. 1790, ii. 712. 

 Erolia variegata,N i^Wloi, Anal. 1816; id. Nouv. Diet. 1817, x. 409, secundum 



Gen. Rep. Lesson, Man. 1828, ii. 302. 

 Erolia varia, Vieillot, Gal. des Ois. 1834, ii. 89, tab. ccxxxi. ; {^Erolia variegata.) 

 Falcinellus cursorius, Temminck, fide Parzudaki. 

 Tringa {Tringa) subarquata, Bonaparte, Speech. Comp. 1827, 62. 

 Pelidna (_ Ancylocheilus) subarquata, Bonaparte, Cat. Met, 1842, 60. 

 Tringa {Erolia) subarquata, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 718. 



Sj}. Char. — Form typical of the genus. Adult. Crovrn of head and entire 

 upper parts lustrous greenish black, each feather tipped and deeply indented 

 with bright yellowish red. Wing coverts ashy brown, each feather with a 

 shaft line of dusky and with reddish edging. Primaries deep dusky, their 

 shafts brown at base and black at tip, the central portion nearly white. Upper 

 tail coverts white with broad bars of dusky, and tinged at their extremity with 

 reddish. Tail light greyish with greenish reflections. Sides of the neck and 

 entire under parts uniform deep brownish red. Under tail coverts barred with 

 dusky. Axillars and under wing coverts white. Bill and legs greenish black. 

 Young in autumn. Crown of head and back brownish black, with a slight 

 greenish lustre, each feather edged with white or reddish yellow. Rump plain 

 dusk}", upper tail coverts white. Wing coverts with broad greyish-white 

 borders. Tail light ashy, edged and tipped with white, the central feathers 

 with a subterminal dusky border in addition. Under parts entirely white, the 

 breast and sides of the neck finely streaked with dusky, the former with a light 

 buff tinge. 



Length 8-5, wing 4-9. Bill (average) 1-5. Tarsus 1-3; toe -9; tibia bare "7. 

 Habitat. — "Atlantic coast of United States; rare. Europe, Asia, Africa." 

 (Gen. Rep.) 



The variations in both plumage and dimensions which this species presents 

 are very great, fully equal to those exhibited by Tringa canutus. I have given 

 above the colors of the adult and of the young of the first fall, between which 

 there may be found every gradation, more especially in reference to the red of 

 the under parts, which at different ages appears as mottling of greater or less 

 extent. The species may, however, be easily recognised in every stage of 

 plumage by its generic characters. The single American specimen before me 

 differs from European skins in a shorter stouter bill, in a shorter tarsus and 

 toes, and in a remarkably abbreviated hind toe. 



There has been considerable confusion among writers with regard to the 

 synonymy of this species. It has received quite a variety of both generic and 

 specific appellations, and from its many changes of plumage several nominal 

 species have arisen. The bird was first mentioned, in 1775, by Guldenst^edt, 

 (Nov. Comm. ut supra,) who introduced it under the name of Scolopax subar- 

 quata. This specific appellation is the one which has been employed by most 



[July) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



authors. It has been placed in seven different genera, — Scolopax, Nunieniusy 

 Tringa. Falcinelhts, Pelidna, Ancylocheilus and (according to Gen. Rep.) Erolia. 

 It was probably the long, slender, decurved bill which caused some of the 

 earlier authors to consider it as a Numenius. The Numenius xuhnrquata, Bechst., 

 or the ScolojMiz sitbarquata, Gm., is the summer plumage of this species, and 

 the Numenius Africanus, Lath., or the Scolopax Africamis, Gm., the winter. The 

 iV. ferrugineus, Mey. is this species, according to Yieillot; and Temminck also 

 gives A". pygmcBus, Bechst. as a synonym, considering it as the young before the 

 first moult. The "Red Sandpiper" of Latham and Pennant refers to this 

 species, though in the synonymy the former gives T. Icelandica, Linn, and T. 

 ferruginea^ Briinn., both of which names are synonyms of T. canuius. The 

 relationships of Erolia variegata or JErolia varia have already been discussed 

 under the head oi Ancylocheilus. 



PELIDXA Cuvier, 



? ? Sckceniclus, Moe bring, Gen. Av. 1T52, 77. 



Felidna, Cuvier, Regne Anim. 1817, 490. Typus T. cinclus, L. 



Char. Bill stout, much longer than the head or tarsus, decurved, depressed, 

 tip somewhat expanded and punctulate. Grooves in both mandibles very deep 

 and distinct. Wings moderate ; tertials long, narrow and flowing. Tail rather 

 long, deeply doubly emarginate, the central feathers projecting. Legs mode- 

 rate, or raiher long. Tarsus but little if any longer than the middle toe. Bare 

 portion of tibia more than half the tarsus. Toes rather long, and narrowly 

 margined. 



The essential characters of this genus lie in the long, stout, decurved bill, 

 longer than the head or tarsus, and the tarsus but little longer than the middle 

 toe, approaching in this respect to Actodromas, to which, in the doubly emar- 

 ginate isiirand, to some extent, the general pattern of coloration and changes 

 of plumage, it is still more nearly related. Its affinities to Ancylocheilus, which 

 are close, will be found discussed under that head. The genus is very variable 

 in the length of its bill, though the legs, as usual among the Tringece, are pretty 

 constant. The colors of tlie two species of the group are subject to many and 

 great variations dependent upon age and season, which in each have given rise 

 to a second nominal species. In addition to these, minor differences in size 

 and color have been made the grounds of specific distinction by some European 

 writers. With these, however, the present monograph has nothing to do, since, 

 in according to the American bird specific distinction from that of Europe, the 

 intricate and difficult synonymy of the latter is excluded. 



The genus Felidna, of Cuvier, (1817), has been employed by different writers 

 in a very unnatural manner to designate the smaller Sandpipers indiscrimi- 

 nately, nearly all the species having been at one time or another included in it, 

 grouped together without the slightest regard to their natural affinities. This 

 is pel haps due in a measure to the very lojse manner in which it is character- 

 ized by Cuvier, who merely says, in instituting the genus, — " les Pelidnes ne 

 sont que de petites maubeches, a bee un peu plus long que la tete, et dont les 

 pieds n'ont ni bordures ni palmures." The genus has in consequence fallen 

 somewhat into disrepute among later ornithologists, who generally avoid the 

 use of it ; but still it must stand for the type upon which it was founded (T. 

 cinclus, L.) if no other name has been previously projjosed for the same group. 

 Schoeniclus, of Moehring, (1752), is said by some authors to refer to that type ; 

 but I can find no characters which restrict it to the T. cinclus. The brief diag- 

 nosis is as follows : " Rostrum digitis cum ungue fere sequale. Pes tetradac- 

 tyla. Membrana dimidiura primum articulum inter extimum et medium digitum 

 occupans." Now as the bill is not " about equal to the middle toe and claw," 

 but very much longer, and as there is scarcely the rudiment of a membrane 

 between the outer and middle toe, which does not nearly occupy " half the first 

 joint," the ouly character left which really belongs to the T. Alpina is '' pes 



1861.] 




188 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



tetradactyla," which of course applies equally well to any other Sandpiper 

 except Galidris arenaria. 



In the uncertainty, therefore, it may be best to use Pelidna of Cuvier, which, 

 although loosely characterized, is definitely located by the mentioning of the 

 type upon which it is founded. 



Pelidna Americana (Cass.) Coues. — American Dunlin. 



Tringa alpina, Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, vii. 25, tab. Ivi. fig. 2 ; id. Ord. Ed. 1829, 



iii. 136; id. Brewer Ed. 1840, 475, fig. 220; (nee Linniiei, nee al. script. 



Europ.) SwainsOD, F. B. A. 18S1, ii. 383. Nuttal, Manual, 1834, ii. 106. 



Audubon, Orn. Biog. 1835, iii. 580, tab. 290 ; id. Syn. 1839, 234 ; id. Birds 



Amer. 1842, v. 266, tab. 332. Girard, Birds L. I. ']844, 228. xVewberry, 



P. R. R. Espl. 1857, vi. 100. 

 Tringa {Tringa) alpina, Bonaparte, Obs. Wils. 1825, v. 92. 

 Tringa cinclus, Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, vii. 3S, tab. Ivii. fig. 3 ; id. Ord. Ed. 



1?29, iii. 138; id. Brewer, Ed. 1840, 484, fig. 225 ; (nee Linuaei, nee al. 



script. Europ.) Dekay, N. Y. Faun. 1844, 240, tab. 84, fig. 292. 

 Pelidna cinclus, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 50. 

 Tringa alpina, var. Americana, Cooper et Suckley, Nat. Hist. Wash. Terr. 



I860, 239. 

 Tringa {Schoeniclus') alpina, var. Americana, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 719. 



Sp. char. Larger than P. alpina. Bill longer, stouter and more decurved 

 than in the type of the genus. Wings moderate, pointed, first primary decided- 

 ly longest. Tail rather long, deeply doubly emarginate, the central feathers 

 projecting, the upper coverts much lengthened. Legs much longer than in P, 

 alpina, the tarsus decidedly longer than the middle toe. Adult in breeding plu- 

 mage. — Crown of head and upper parts generally bright chestnut red, the 

 feathers with a central field of black, and on the scapulars with whitish mar- 

 gins. Lesser wing coverts plain greyish ash, each feather with a shaft line of 

 dusky and with a light border; greater broadly tipped with white. Outer vanes 

 and tips of primaries deep dusky, almost black, those of the inner edged with 

 white towards their bases ; inner vanes of all light ashy. Secondaries mostly 

 white. Tertials with the rump and upper tail coverts brownish black, with 

 either plain greyish or light reddish edges, the outer pair of the latter mostly 

 white. Central tail feathers brownish black, the rest light greyish ash. Fore- 

 head, line over the eye and whole under parts white, the jugulum with nume- 

 rous longitudinal lines and streaks of brownish black, and the belly with a very 

 broad bar of pure black. Legs, feet and bill black. Adult in winter, and young. — 

 Upper parts a uniform dark ash, generally with traces of the reddish on the 

 scapulars, and the feathers with darker shaft lines. White edgings of inner 

 primaries very conspicuous. Jugulum with an ashy suffusion, and with nume- 

 rous illy defined, blended streaks of duskj'. Rest of under parts pure white. 



Leagth 8-5, extent 14-5, wing 4*9, tail 2 3. Bill above 1-6, tarsus M, middle 

 toe -95, tibia bare, -6. 



Habitat, Continent of North America. 



Although it may seem a hazardous undertaking to separate the Dunlins of 

 America and Europe, yet on the authority of that most accurate ornithologist, 

 Mr. Cassin, and from the testimony of numerous specimens from both countries 

 before me, I cannot but come to the conclusion that they are specifically dis- 

 tinct. The uniformly larger size, the disproportionately longer, stouter and 

 more decurved bill, and the invariably longer and differently proportioned legs, 

 are discrepancies which can hardly be allowed to exist in the same species. 

 The constancy of these differences in so notoriously variable a bird as the pre- 

 sent, as well as their radical nature, are indications which cannot be neglected. 

 The distinctive characters being entirely those of size and proportion, the com- 

 parative measurements of three specimens from each country is subjoined: 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



189 



The comparative diagnoses would be briefly as follows : 



P. alpina. Length 8 inches. Bill, average, 1-4. Tarsus but little if any 

 longer than middle toe. Length of tarsus and toe 1-75. 



P.Americana. Larger; length S/) inches. Bill average 1-7 ; disproportion- 

 ately longer, stouter, more decurved. Tarsus decidedly longer than the middle 

 toe ; legs considerably longer; length of tarsus and toe 2 inches. 



Among the specimens from the west coast there appear to be two very de- 

 cided types. One is that common to the Atlantic coast, in which the bill mea- 

 sures on an average 1*50 of an inch in length, and the wing 4-60. Of the other 

 there are three specimens before me, collected at different times, absolutely 

 identical in size and proportions, and differing greatly both from eastern speci- 

 mens and all others from the west coast. In these the bill measures 1-72 of aa 

 inch, being nearly a fourth of an inch longer than in P. Americana ; the wing 

 is nearly five inclies ; the legs are somewhat longer, and the whole bird con- 

 siderably larger. The differences, indeed, between these specimens and the 

 average of P. Americana are nearly if not quite as great as those which separate 

 that latter species from the alpina. These facts are of importance, and would 

 seem to point to one of tlie following considerations : — either the three specimens 

 alluded to belong to a species distinct from the Americana, or that they repre- 

 sent one extreme, and P. alpina, or more properly T. Schinzii, Brehm.,* the 

 other of one and the same species, of which P. Americana is the intermediate 

 form. I cannot but think, however, that the former supposition is the most 

 probable; for it seems almost impossible in one species there should be such 

 variations, and those too of such a radical nature as are presented by specimens 

 ofPelidna from different localities. Thus, to consider a bird in which the bill 

 measures 1-20, the leg 1-75, and the wing 4-40, (as in the smallest specimen of 

 Pelidna before me,) as specifically identical with one in which these parts were 

 respectively 1-75, 2-10 and 4-95, would be almost without a parallel in orni- 

 thology ; while, at the same time, if they be considered distinct, it is impossible 

 to avoid recognizing alfo the intermediate form. But if, as 1 think has been 

 pretty conclusively shown, the American bird is distinct from the European, 

 then the west coast specimens above referred to ure equally worthy of specific 

 distinction. f Still, with but three specimens before me, I do not venture, in 

 the case of so variable a bird as a Sandpiper, to present it as distinct; but 

 should the above differences be found constant, and showing no graduation 

 towards the Americana, I should have no hesitation in so doing. In the event 

 of their proving really distinct. I would propose the name of Pacific a as an ap- 

 propriate one. 



* With but a single specimen of Tringa Schinzii before me, I am not prepared to ex- 

 press any opinion with reference to its relationships to Pelidna alpina. In this paper I 

 consider it as merely a smaller race of the latter, entirely upon the high authority of the 

 General Report. 



t In the field notes of the late Dr. C. B. R. Kennerly, I find the opinion expressed that 

 they are distinct; and I am informed by Dr. Geo. Suckley, U. S. \., that he has always 

 doubted the sjieciiic identity of the various specimens of Pelidna from the west coast. 

 Both of these gentlemen have enjiiyed excellent opportunities for observation and com- 

 parison, and their opinions should carry with them considerable weight 



1861.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The above remarks are made rather with the view of calling attention to the 

 facts, than as presenting any solution of the problem. The whole subject is 

 one of great interest, and well worthy of extended and careful iuYestigation. 



ACTODROMAS, Kaup. 



Actodromas, Kaup, Sk. Ent. Eur. Thierw. 1829, 55 ; Typus Tringa minuta^ Leisl, 

 Char. Bill about equal to the head or tarsus, short, straight, very slender, 

 somewhat compressed, the tip puuctulate, scarcely expanded, acute. Grooves 

 on both mandibles very deep, and extending nearly to the tip. Nostrils situated 

 very near the ba§e of the bill. Feathers extending on the lower mandible much 

 beyond those on the upper, and half as far as those between the rami. Wings 

 long, pointed, first primary usually longest; tertials long, slender, flowing. 

 Tail rather long, deeply doubly emarginate, the central feathers much project- 

 ing : upper tail coverts moderately long. Tibia bare for more than half the 

 length of the tarsus ; the feathers very short, making the exposed portion nearly 

 as great. Tarsus equal to the middle toe. Toes long, slender, very narrowly 

 margined, entirely free at base. (In typical species the jugulum with an ashy 

 or brownish suffusion, thickly streaked ; the rump and upper tail coverts with 

 a central blackish field.) 



The genus Actodromas, of Kaup (1829) includes a well marked and very 

 natural group of Sandpipers, the quite numerous species of which are very 

 closely related borh in form and colors. Its type, from which I have drawn the 

 characters in the preceding diagnosis, is the T. minuta, Leisl., a European 

 species not occurring in North Aiuerica, being replaced in that country by the 

 Tringa Wilsoni of Nuttall, a very closely allied species, and one with which it 

 has been confounded by some authors. The essential characters of the genus 

 lie in the short, straight, slender bill, which equals the head or tarsus; the long 

 slender toes, the middle equal to the tarsus; the much denuded tibia with its 

 short feathers, and the long, deeply doubly emarginate tail. The peculiar pro- 

 portions of bill, tarsus and toe are shared by no other Sandpipers, so far as my 

 knowledge extends. The gerjus is divisible into two well-marked sections : 

 Actodromas proper, with the type T. minuta, having its characters strictly as 

 above ; and Heteropygia,* with the Tringa Bonapartei as type. The latter differs 

 in the stouter bill, more expanded at tip; in the much less extent of the en- 

 croachment of the feathers on the lower mandible ; in the longer legs, the tarsus 

 rather exceeding the middle toe ; in the entire absence of the brownish or ashy 

 suffusion on the jugulum, and in the white upper tail covers. In this section I 

 have placed the Tringa Cooperi of Baird, which is most closely related to the 

 A. Bonapartei, and is at any rate an Actodroinas rather than a true Tringa. 



The species of the genus now ascertained to inhabit North America are five 

 in number: A. maculata, A. minutilla, and the new A. Bai7-dii, coming under 

 Actodromas proper; A. Bonapartei and A. Cooperi, which compose the section 

 Heteropygia. The three first of these are so nearly alike in colors, that, their 

 form being absolutely identical, size is the chief specific difference. A. macu- 

 lata is much the largest, being about nine inches in length ; A. minutilla is very 

 small, being less than six inches; while A. Bairdii is exact'y intermediate 

 between the two, measuring a little over seven inches. 



The following brief schedule will serve to distinguish the five species, when 

 in adult breeding plumage : — 



Actodromas, Kaup. 



A. Jugulum with a brownish or ashy suffusion, thickly streaked. Rump and 

 upper tail coverts with a central black field. 



* The name is used with reference to the most conspicuous, though probably not most 

 important, feature in which it differs from Actodiomas proper. The combinaiion being 

 rather an obvious one, the name may have been already employed ; in that event I would 

 suggest Delopygia with much the same signification. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



191 



1. Much the largest; length about 9 inches, wing (average) 5-25. 



Crown much darker than the hind neck, the transition abrupt. 

 Chin immaculate. Edgings of feathers on upper parts light 

 chestnut-red, not making indentations towards the shaft. Suf- 

 fusion on jugulum very deep, the streaks narrow, distinct. 

 Central tail feathers long, pointed, much projecting. Bill and 

 legs dusky green, maculata. 



2. Smaller ; length 7'25 inches, wing 4'8. Crown not conspicuously 



darker than hind neck. Edgings of feathers on upper parts 

 light reddish yellow, scarcely brighter on the scapulars, majiing 

 indentations towards the shaft. Suffusion on jugulum very 

 light, the markings rounded, somewhat obsolete. Central tail 

 feathers rounded, less projecting. Bill and legs black, Bairdii. 



3. Much the smallest; a miniature of the preceding; length 5-75; 



wing 3-4. Edges of feathers chestnut-red, usually more or 



less indented, tips lighter. Bill black, legs dusky green, minutilla. 



Heteropygia, Coues. 

 B. Jugulum without an ashy or brownish suffusion. Upper tail coverts white. 



4. Length 7*5. Jugulum thickly streaked with rather narrow 



lines. Upper tail coverts immaculate, except the outer pair. 



Central tail feathers nearly black, considerably projecting, Bonapartei. 



5. Much larger; length 9-5. Jugulum with sparse, rather broad 



oval spots or streaks. Upper tail coverts with sagittate spots 

 of dusky. Central tail feathers scarcely darker than the late- 

 ral, projecting but little, Cooperi. 



Comparative 3Ieasurements of Species. 



AcTODROMAS (AcTODROMAs) MINUTILLA (Vicill.) Coucs. — Least Sandpiper. 



Tringa minutilla^ Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 452, (haud dubie.) " Vieill," 



Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 579. 

 Tringa pusilla, Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, v. 32, tab. xxxvii. fig. 4; id. Ord. Ed. 



1829, iii. 134; id. Brewer, Ed. 1840, 347, fig. 161. (Nee Linneei ; nee 



Meyer; nee Bechst.) Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 386. Audubon, Orn. 



Biog. 1838, iv. 320, tab. 180; id. Syn. 1839, 237; id. Birds Amer. v. 1842, 



*The measurements of the length and extent are from the fresh bird, and on the 

 authority of the collector. 



1861.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



280, tab. 337 ; Giraud, Birds L. I. 1844, 240. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 579. 



Woodhouse, Expl. Zuni. 1853, 100. 

 Pelidna pusilla, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 50. Gosse, Birds Jamaica, 1847, 



348. 

 Tringa Wilsoni, Nuttall, Man. 1834, ii. 121. Cooper et Suckley, Nat. Hist. 



Wash. Terr. 1860, 240. 

 Tringa {Tringa) pusilla, Bonaparte, Comp. Speech. 1827, 237. 

 Tringa (Aclodromas) Wilsoni, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 721. 



Sp. Char. — The smallest of North American Tringece. Bill straight, very 

 slender, about equal to the tarsus, but varying eomewhat, the tip scarcely 

 expanded, and the point very acute. Wings long, first and second primaries 

 about equal, third but little shorter. Tertials very long, frequently nearly 

 equalling the primaries. Tail rather long, the central feathers moderately pro- 

 jecting and rather rounded. Middle toe frequently slightly longer than tarsus. 

 Upper parts generally with each feather having a central black field, and being 

 edged veith chestnut and tipped with ashy white, the margins making a deep 

 indentation in the middle of the feather. Outer row of tail coverts white, with 

 large, sagittate, dusky spots. Central tail feathers black, edged with light 

 reddish, the others very light ashy with whitish borders. Primaries deep 

 dusky, almost black, the shaft of the first white. Secondaries and greater 

 coverts dusky, lighter on the inner vanes, and tipped with white. An indistinct 

 whitish line over the eye, and a dusky one between the eye and bill. Jugulum 

 and sides to some distance with a very decided brownish suffusion, and thickly 

 marked with rounded spots and streaks of dusky. Chin and under parts gene- 

 rally white, the former usually with minute points of dusky. Legs, feet and 

 bill greenish dusky, the latter nearly black. 



Length 55 to 6, extent 11-5 to 12, wing 3-4. Bill, tarsus and middle toe 

 about -75. 



Habitat. — Entire temperate North America. 



The diminutive size of the present species at once distinguishes it from any 

 other Sandpiper now recognised as an inhabitant of North America; but in 

 view of the species of other countries with which it is very closely allied, and 

 especially of the uncertainty whether there be not two or more distinct species 

 in North America, a more minute description may not be considered as unneces- 

 sary. In addition, therefore, to the preceding diagnosis, which presents the 

 principal characters of adult individuals, the following remarks may tend to 

 define it with more precision. 



In apparently adult specimens, the general style of coloration much more 

 closely resembles that of Bairdii than of mandata, in the rounded black spots 

 and color of the edgings, as well as in the scolloping at the middle of each 

 feather. Young birds, however, are precisely similar to the maculata in the 

 same stage, having the edges of the feathers bright chestnut, and the tips pure 

 white. In this respect the species departs from the general rule with regard to 

 young birds, the plumage at that age being actually brighter than during the 

 breeding season. The same is the case with the A. maculata. An evidence of 

 immaturity, however, may always be found in the color of the jugulum. where 

 the wash is simply dull ashy, and the streaks narrow and illy defined. The 

 chin, too, is immaculate, while with the adults it is usually minutely dotted 

 with dusky. The young have the lesser wing coverts broadly margined with 

 light reddish, while the adults have them merely a lighter shade of the color 

 of the rest of the feather. The color of the jugulum is much that of A. Bairdii, 

 being of the same decided brownish tint; and the similarity is heightened by 

 the rounded and somewhat obsolete character of the spots. The color of the 

 breast extends along the sides about half way to the tail, but some feathers are 

 marked with dusky quite to the vent. The under tail coverts are usually im- 

 maculate, but sometimes have shaft lines of dusky. The primaries are deep 

 dusky, still darker at tip, the shaft of the first being white for its entire length, 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



the other having their bases and tips brownish. The secondaries and greater 

 coverts are nearly as dark as the primaries, both conspicuously tipped and 

 their inner vanes edged with white. The axillary feathers are white; and, in 

 the closed wing, a portion of the under coverts form a large triangular patch 

 of white near the shoulder. 



A specimen from the west coast presents a very remarkable pattern of color- 

 ation. It has not the least trace of any reddish or chestnut, being everywhere 

 of a uniform dark ash, each feather with a central spot or shaft line of dusky. 

 The rump is scarcely darker than the back. The breast is merely a lighter 

 shade of the color of the back, and the streaks are so indistinct as to be 

 scarcely perceptible. This is very different from the plumage of the young 

 given above ; and it is not impossible that the bird is of a species distinct from 

 the oae now under consideration. The general pattern, however, is very simi- 

 lar to that presented by the young Bairdii ; and in the absence of any differ- 

 ences of size or proportions, and with but a single specimen before me, I am 

 unwilling to risk adding another name to the already overburdened synonymy 

 of the smaller Sandpipers. In another specimen, also from the west coast, the 

 prevailing color of the upper parts is almost black, the feathers, except oa the 

 scapulars, being scarcely edged with reddish ; and the streaks on the breast 

 are very numerous and dark, upon a nearly white ground. This state of 

 plumage is exactly parallel with that sometimes exhibited by undoubted 

 specimens of ^. maculata. 



The relationship of this species to the European A. minuta are close ; and, 

 with but a single very defective and immature skin of the latter before me, I 

 cannot well state the points of difference ; but all authors are agreed upon the 

 specific distinction of the two. As far as I can judge, A. viimita is considerably 

 the largest, (wing 3-85 instead of about 3-4,) and the proportions of the pri- 

 maries are quite different from those of ^. viinuiilla. A. minuta has been given 

 as an inhabitant of North America by both Swainson and Nuttall, but probably 

 upon insufficient or erroneous data. 



With regard to this little Sandpiper, there has been considerable confusion 

 among authors, arising partly from the great similarity it bears to some other 

 species, such as the Tringa minuta and Temminckii, and partly from a misinterpre- 

 tation of the T. pusilla* of Linnaeus. This name was applied by Wilson, in 1818, 

 to the species now under consideration, and is adopted by Swainson, Audubon 

 and some other writers. The T. pusilla of Nuttall ("stint or little sandpiper") 

 \sT. Temminckii, Leisl., and is erroneously given as an inhabitant of North 

 America. What " Le tringa beco, T. pusilla, Lath.," of Vieillot refers to is a 

 little doubtful. The author quotes plate 37, fig. 4 of Wilson's Ornithology, 

 which is T. pusillajWils. {T. Wilsoni, Nutt. ;) and also cites the "petite Alouette- 

 de-mer de Saint-Domingue " of Brisson, which is T. semipalmata, Wils. (Ereu- 

 netes pusillus, Cass.) The description, however, especially with reference to 

 the stout bill, traces of reddish on the under parts, &c., seems rather to point 

 to the latter, which it may be best to consider it, even though no mention is 



* For convenience of reference, the four species to which the name pusilla was origi- 

 nally applied, with their more prominent synonyms, are here inserted. 



Tringa pusilla, Linnsus = Ereunetes petrifcatus, lUiger = Tringa semipalmata, 

 Wilson = Htteropoiia semip., Nuttall, and Hcmipalama semip., Bonapar'e = hreunetes 

 pusillus, Cassin; {Heteropoda mauri, Bonapane, and Hemipalama minor, Gundlach, are 

 synonymous ?) 



Tringa pusilla, Meyer = Tringa minuta, Leisler = Actodromas minuta, Kaup. 



Tringa pusilla, Bechstein = Tringa Temminckii, Leisler = Actodromas Temminckii, 

 Bonaparte. 



Tringa pusilla, Wilson = Tringa minutilla, Vieillot == Tringa Wihonii Nuttall = 

 Actodromas Wilsoni, Cassin = Actodromas minutilla of the present article. 



It will thus be seen that Tringa pusilla of Linnaeus, Meyer, Bechstein and Wilson 

 refers to four distinct species. 



1861.] 14 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



made of the webbed feet. The remarks made in this article, under the head cf 

 Ercunetes pusillus, will, it is hoped, show that the name pusilla was originally 

 used in a very different connection, and hence cannot be employed for the pre- 

 sent species. Bonaparte, as early as 1825, seems to have been aware that the 

 T. pusilla of LinncBus was not the bird given under that name by Wilson; for 

 in his (Observations on the Nomenclature of Wilson's Ornithology, on the sub- 

 ject of T. semipalmata, Wils., he gives as a reason for not adopting pusilla for 

 that latter species, that " several species have been confounded together under 

 the name of T. pusilla; and althougli the present (T. semipalmata, Wils.) is the real 

 species, it would be adding to the existing confusion to change the most appro- 

 priate name of semipalmata, given by the author who first separated the species, 

 in order to apply a name generally given to another, to which in that case we 

 ought to give a new name." In 1834, Nuttall applied the name Wilsoni to a 

 species whose manners and habits he described so accurately that there can be 

 no doubt of its referring to the bird now under consideration, though he, too, 

 fell into the error of quoting T. cinclus dominiccnsis minor, Briss. This name 

 Wilsoni being supposed to be the only one hitherto applied to the species, 

 (except of course pusilla, untenable for the reason already given,) is the one in 

 general use among more modern ornithologists. In view of the existing con- 

 fusion, it is with great reluctance that I adopt still another name for this 

 species; but the Tringa minutilla of Vieillot pants so unmistakeably to the 

 present bird, that a strict adherence to the laws of ornithological nomenclature 

 renders this necessary. This author (page 466 of the Nouv. Diet.) says : " Le 

 nom que j'ai conserve a cet oiseau est celui sous lequel il est connu dans noa 

 colonies d'Amerique, et qui lui a ete impose d'apres sa petite taille . . . . il a des 

 rapports avec le tringa minuta de Leisler . . . . je I'ai souvent vu a Halifax, et 

 dans la Nouvelle-Ecosse .... comme les tringas becos," (7^. semipalmata, 

 Wils.?) "se comport de meme, il en est resulie qu'on les a confondus en- 

 semble." There is no North American Sandpiper but the present remarkable 

 for its diminutive size, and having relationships with the T. minuta, Leisl., that 

 is found in Nova Scotia, except the T. semipalmata, Wils., with which, as the 

 author remarks,* it is sometimes confounded, from a general similarity in 

 habits and appearance. The description given applies well; and in some par- 

 ticulars, such as the length (quatre pouces dix lignes) and the proportions of 

 the bill, ("noir, tres-grele, et long de neuf legnes; les tarses delamemelon- 

 geur,") can refer to no other North American Sandpiper. 



From these considerations therefore I adopt the name minutilla, at least until 

 some weightier reasons be adduced to disprove the position assumed. 



AcTODROMAS (AcTODROMAs) Bairdii Coucs. — Baird's Sandpiper. 



Tringa (Aciodromas) Bonapartei, Cassin, Gen. Rep. V22. In part. 



Sp. Char. — Form and proportions typical of the genus. Bill small, slender, 

 rather shorter than the head, equal to the tarsus, the tip scarcely expanded, its 

 point very acute. Grooves in both mandibles verj^ long and deep, that of the 

 lower very narrow. Feathers extending on the side of lower mandible much 

 farther than those on the upper, about half as far as those between the rami. 

 Wings long; first and second primaries about equal, but varying, third 

 much shorter; tertials long, slender, flowing. Tail rather long, but slightly 

 doubly emarginate, the central feathers rounded, projecting but little. Toes 

 long, slender, slightly margined, the middle with its claw about equal to tarsus. 

 Adult in breeding plumage. Entire upper parts a very dark brownish black, 

 deeper on the rump and lighter on the neck behind, each feather bordered and 

 tipped with light reddish yellow ; on the scapulars the tips broader and nearly 

 pure white, and the margins brighter, making several deep indentations towards 



* If, as is probably the case, " le beco " be the T. semipalmata, Wils, 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



the shaft. Upper tail coverts long, extending to within half an inch of tlie tips 

 of the central tail feathers, black, except the outer series, which are white with 

 dusky markings. Central tail feathers brownish black, the rest successively- 

 lighter, and all with a narrow border of white. Jugulum with a very decided 

 light brownish suffusion, (much as in A.maculata,) and, together with the sides 

 under the wings to some distance, with rounded obsolete spots and streaks of 

 dusky. Throat and under parts generally white, immaculate. lUll, legs and 

 feet black. Young in August. Dimensions and proportions as in the adult. 

 Upper parts a nearly uniform lij;ht ashy brown, deeper on the rump, each 

 feather with a central dark field and with a light edge. Traces of the brownish 

 black of the adult on the scapuUrs. Breast and jugulum with the suffusion 

 very light reddish brown, the streaks sparse and very indistinct. 



Length 7-25, extent 15-25, wing 4-9. Bill above, tarsus and middle toe about 

 •85. 



Habitat. — North America, e«st of the Rocky Mountains. Not on the Atlantic 

 coast. (?) 



The preceding diagnosis expresses the most essential characters of a Sand- 

 piper, hitherto confounded with the A. Bonapartei, but nevertheless perfectly 

 distinct from that or any other species recognized as an inhabitant of North 

 America. Though a true Adodromas, and very closely related to the A. minu- 

 iilla and maculata., a similarity in size, in changes of plumage, and, to some 

 extent, in general appearance, has caused it to be referred to A. Bonapartei, 

 which, however, belongs to a group subgenerically distinct. But the two difler 

 very materially both in tints and in the pattern of coloration of the upper parts, 

 and in the character of the upper tail coverts and the jugulum. The following 

 brief schedule will express the chief distinctive features of each, and render 

 further comparison unnecessary. 



A. Bairdii. — Length about 725 inches. Bill slender, entirely black. Feathers 

 extending on the lower mandible much beyond those on the upper. Edging of 

 scapulars light buff color, indented. Breast and jugulum with a decided 

 brownish suffusion, the markings rounded, sparse, ratner obsolete. Upper tail 

 coverts much lengthened, black; central tail feathers projecting but little, the 

 emargiuation of the tail slight. 



A, Bonapartei. — -Length about 7-50 inches. Bill stout, flesh colored at base 

 below. Feathers extending on the lower mandible but little if any beyond 

 those on the upper. Edging of scapulars bright chestnut, scarcely indented. 

 Jugulum and breast with a scarcely appreciable ashj-wash, the streaks narrow, 

 numerous, well defined. Upper tail coverts moderate, white ; the central tail 

 feathers considerably projecting, and tail quite deeply emarginate. 



The species is a true Actodromas, and belongs subgenerically to the same 

 group as A. minutilla and maculata, with both of which it is very closely related, 

 and requires comparison. In size it is exactly intermediate between the two, 

 exceeding the minutilla by about as much as it is itself surpassed by the macu- 

 lata. The slender black bill is very similar to that o{ minutilla, and the general 

 pattern of coloration almost identical. The colors, however, are everywhere 

 much lighter; the edgings of the feathers of the upper parts being of a light 

 reddish yellow or buff, instead of the bright chestnut red of minutilla; while 

 the streaks upon the breast are fewer, less distinct and more rounded. It is 

 considerably smaller than A. maculata; there is nothing of the abrupt transition 

 from the dark crown to the ranch lighter hind neck, so conspicuous in the 

 latter; the tertials want the bright reddish edgings, and the pattern of color- 

 ation of the upper parts are quite different. While the suffusion of the breast 

 and jugulum is much the same, the markings are more rounded, sparse and 

 indistinct. There is also a great difference in the bill, as regards size, shape 

 and color. The species differs from both minutilla and maculata in one important 

 respect, — the character of the changes of plumage it undergoes. The young 

 of both the former are usually quite as bright, if not brighter, than the adults; 



1861.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and the markings are all definite and distinct, while immature birds of tba 

 present species are of a nearly uniform ashy above, the suffusion of the breast 

 very light, and the streaks so indistinct as to be scarcelj' appreciable. In this 

 respect it resembles A. Bonapcrriei, with the different stages of which there is a 

 perfect parallelism. In some stages of plumage it approaches the A. Cooperi, 

 the resemblance being further enhanced by the slight emargination of the tail. 

 The greatly superior size of the latter, however, independently of its subgeneric 

 characters, at once distinguishes it. Some specimens show a tendency t4)ward3 

 the general dusky state of plumage also exhibited by both ■minutilla and macu- 

 lata, when the upper parts are very dark and nearly uniform, being scarcely 

 relieved by lighter margins of the feathers. 



The following detailed description which will serve to definitely characterize 

 this species in the plumage of the adult during the breeding season, and of the 

 young bird of the first fall, is taken from a very perfect male shot May 19th, at 

 Fort Resolution, and from a young male obtained in Nebraska during the latter 

 part of July. 



The bill is of moderate length, and very slender, expanded but slightly ai tip, 

 and the point very acute ; the grooves are long, extending quite to the expansion 

 of the tip, that of the lower mandible being narrow but distinct. The bill is 

 entirely black. The feathers encroach on the lower mandible much beyond 

 those on the upper, about half as far as those between the rami. Their upper 

 outline is about parallel with the culmen. There is much white about the 

 head ; the extreme forehead and the lower eyelid are white, while a broad ill- 

 defined band of the same passes over the eye. A narrow and well defined dusky 

 stripe passes from the eye to the nostril. The crown is streaked with dusky 

 brown and dull ochreous, and is darker along a broad medium stripe than at 

 the sides. The sides and back of the neck are much like the crown, but rather 

 lighter, the transition being gradual. The upper parts generally are of a dark 

 brownish black, every feather being edged with light reddish yellow ; on the 

 scapulars each feather is broadly bordered with bright buflf, still more widely 

 at the end with a dull shade of the same, the extreme tip being white. On 

 most of the feathers the edging makes a deep, more or- less irregular indenta- 

 tion, leaving the black only as a line along each side of the shaft. The long 

 tertials, the secondaries, and greater wing coverts are dusky, fading into dull 

 white on the edges. The lesser coverts are very dark, with scarcely 

 lighter tips. The primaries are deep dusky, almost black, the shaft of the first 

 white, of the others mostly brownish. The inner primaries are very narrowly 

 edged on the outer vane with white. The tail coverts are black, the outer 

 series with sagittate spots of white. The central tail feathers which are 

 rounded and project but little beyond the rest, are brownish black, narrowly 

 edged with white ; the lateral light ashy, fading into white at the edges. The 

 chin and throat are white, and immaculate or nearly so. The jugulum, breast, 

 and sides to some distance have a very decided light brownish, or ochreous suf- 

 fusion, and the makings are rather sparse, rounded, and indistinct, in the mid- 

 dle of the breast nearly obsolete. They are largest and most conspicuous just 

 before the bend of the wing, where they gradually pass into the stripes of the 

 sides of the neck. The rest of the under parts including the axillars and under 

 wing coverts are white, immaculate. The tibial feathers are ashy ; the legs 

 and feet black. 



The young has the form and proportions much as in the adult. The white 

 about the head is much restricted, and the line over the eye so illy defined as 

 to be scarcely appreciable as such. The upper parts generally are of a dull 

 nearli"- uniform brownish ash, each feather with a shaft line of dusky, and 

 with a lighter tip. There are traces of the brownish black of the adult at in- 

 tervals, but more particularly on the scapulars, where the edgings are j ellowish 

 white. The rump and upper tail coverts are nearly as dark as on the adult. 

 The suffusion of the jugulum and breast is a very light shade of reddish brown ; 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



and the streaks are sparse, and so indistinct as to be in some places scarcely 

 appreciable. The wash extends for some distance along the sides under the 

 wings. 



An intermediate, and perhaps more usual state of plumage during the winter 

 difiFers in some respects from either of the preceding. Tbe centres of the 

 feathers of the upper parts are nearly as dark as in the adult, but they are 

 every where rather broadly tipped with pure white. In other respects the 

 plumage generally is much like that of the adult, except that, as might be ex- 

 pected, the wash on the jugulum is very light and much restricted, and the 

 streaks very indistinct. 



Upon inspection of Audubon's figure of the male of his Tringa Schinzii, I was 

 inclined to think that it was taken from a specimen of the present species. It 

 represents a male in the act of flying, and shows plainly the upper tail coverts, 

 which are entirely dark colored, as are also the upper parts generally. In the 

 collection, however, I find a specimen of the true Bonaparlei, labelled " St. 

 Augustine, Fla.," received from Mr. Audubon, which is in all probability the 

 original of the figure. It is in the peculiar dusky state already mentioned, and 

 agrees very nearly with the plate. His figure of the female is undoubtedly 

 that of a true Bonapartei. The fact of his remarking that " In some individuals 

 about six of the middle tail coverts are black, the literal barred with white 

 and dusky," show that he was acquaiated with both species, but considered 

 the differences as dependant upon sex or age. The diagnosis given by Mr. 

 Cassin, in the General Report, of Tringa. Bonapartei, points unmistakeably to that 

 bird ; but on the examination of the four specimens there enumerated, I find 

 three of them to be of the present species. The differences were most unac- 

 countably overlooked by that accurate ornithologist, though on a very cur- 

 sory comparison of the types of the descriptions in the present article, with 

 epecimfns of ^. Bonapartei, he pronounced them to be totally distinct. 



The first specimen of the preseat species procured were taken by Dr. Hayden, 

 during the exploration of Nebraska, by Lieut. Warren. There are also speci- 

 mens in the collection from Fort Kearney, by Dr. Cooper, from the Zuai river, by 

 Dr. Woodhouse, and from the vicinity of Great Slave Lake, by Mr. Kennicott 

 and Mr. Ross. These widely separated localities would seem to indicate a 

 habitat co-extensive with that of A. Bonapartei, and probably embracing the 

 continent of North America, east of the Rocky Mountains. I have never seen 

 it, however, from the Atlantic coast. 



In presenting to the scientific world this my first new species, I should do 

 violence to my feelings, did I give it any other name than the one chosen. To 

 Spexcer F. Baird, I dedicate it, as a slight testimonial of respsct for scientific 

 acquirements of the highest order, and in grateful remembrance of the unvary- 

 ing kindness which has rendered my almost daily intercourse a source of so 

 great pleasure, and of the friendly encouragement to which I shall ever feel in- 

 debted for whatever progress I may hereafter make in ornithology. 



AcTODROMAS (AcTODROMAs) MACULATA (Vie ill.) Cass. — Pcctoral Sandpiper. 



Tringa maculata, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 465. 



Pelidna maculata, Parzudaki. Cat. Ois. Eur. 1856, 15. {T. Bonapartei, Schleo-el 



per errorem citat.) 

 Tringa cainpestris, Lichtenstein, Verz. 1823, 74 ; (nee Vieill., 1819.) 

 Pelidna pecloralis, Say, Long's Exped. 1823, i. 171. Bonaparte, Comp. List. 



1838, 50. Cassin, U. S. Ast. Exp. 1855, ii. 195. 

 Tringa pectoralis, Bonaparte, Am. Orn. 1833, iv. 43 ; tab. xxiii. ; id. Cat. Birds 



U. S. ; id. Syn. sp. 250; (fide Bon.) Nuttall, Manual, 1834, ii. 111. 



Jenyns. Manual, 1835, 210. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 1835, iii. 601: v. 582; 



tab! 294; id. Syn. 1839, 232; id. Birds Amer. v. 1842,259; tab. 329. 



Macgillivray, Man. Brit. Birds, 1842, ii. 67. Giraud, Birds L. I., 1844, 233. 



Dekay, N. Y. Faun. 1844, 242, tab. 85, fig. 193. Schlegel, Rev. Crit. Ois. 



1861.] 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Eur. 1844, 89. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 579. Lambeye, Aves Cubae, 1850, 

 98. Woodhouse, Sitgreave's Expl. 1853, 100. Meyer, Brit. Birds, 1857, v. 

 89. Cooper et Suckley, Nat. Hist. Wash. Terr. 1860, 230. 

 Tringa Dominicensis, Degland, Orn. Eur. 1849, ii. 232. 

 Tringa (^Tringa) pectoralis, Bonaparte, Spec. Comp. 1827, 62. 

 Pelidna {Pelidna') pectoralis, Bonaparte, Cat. Met. 1842, 60. 

 Tringa (Aciodromas) maculata, Cassin, Gen. Rep. Birds, 1858. 



Sp. Ch. — Bill a little long-er than the head, about equal to the tarsus or middle 

 toe, moderately stout, straightor very lightly decurvfd, the tip more expanded and 

 punctulate than in the type of the genus. Grooves in both mandibles long and 

 deep. Wings long, pointed, first primary decidedly longest ; tertials very long, nar- 

 row, and flowing. Tarsus equal to middle toe, both about equal to the bill. Tail 

 rather long, deeply doubly emarginate, the central feathers pointed and greatly 

 projecting. Adult in Spring. An ill-defined white line over the eye, and a 

 more distinct one of dusky between eye and bill. Crown streaked with brown- 

 ish black and light chestnut, conspicuously dififerent from the neck behind, 

 which is streaked with dusky and light ochreous. Upper parts generally, a very 

 dark brownish black, every feather edged with ashy or dark chestnut red, 

 brightest on the scapulars, the tips usually lighter, and the margins never mak- 

 ing deep indentations toward the shaft. Rump and upper tail coverts black, 

 the outer series of the latter white, with sagittate spots of dusky. Primaries 

 deep dusky, almost black, the shaft of the first white, of the others brown. 

 Secondaries and greater coverts dusky, edged and tipped with white. Lesser 

 coverts duskj-, fading into light greyish ash on the edges. Central tail feathers 

 brownish black, lighter on the edges, the lateral light ashy margined with 

 white. Jugiilum and breast with a deep wash of ashy brown, and with very 

 numerous well defined streaks of dusky ; the suffusion extending on the sides 

 under the wings to some distance, where the dusky streaks are mostly shaft 

 lines. Chin, and under parts generally, white, immaculate. Bill and feet dusky 

 greenish. Young in September. Edges of the feathers of the upper parts generally, 

 and of the tertials and central tail feathers, light bright chestnut, and the tips 

 pure white. Lesser wing coverts broadly edged and tipped with light ferru- 

 ginous. Suffusion on the breast and jugulum with a yellowish ochreous tinge 

 not seen in the adult, and the streaks less distinct. Other parts as in the 

 adult. 



Length 9 to 9-5 inches, extent about 18, wing (average) 5*5. Bill, tarsus, 

 and middle toe about 1-10. 



Habitat. — Entire temperate North America. Europe. 



This is the largest of the species of this group inhabiting North America, 

 with the exception of the A. Cooperi ; and though it is subject to great variations 

 both in size and color, is not easily confounded with any other. The size, the 

 character, and color of the margins of the feathers of the upper parts, the crown 

 conspicuously different from the hind neck, and the deep pectoral wash, readily 

 distinguish it. Its relationships are closest with the A. BairdiL both having 

 the black rump and upper tail coverts, and suffusion on the jugulum. The 

 considerably superior size of the present species, however, at once distinguishes 

 it, independently of the different color and pattern of the markings on the upper 

 parts. In maculata the edgings of the feathers are either dull ashy or bright 

 chestnut, and are never of the light reddish yellow of Bairdii. There is nothing 

 of the scolloping of the edgings on the scapulars, which in Bairdii give the 

 appearance of a rounded black spot on the end of each feather. The emargina- 

 tion of (he tail is more than twice as great. The pectoral wash is much deeper, 

 and the streaks more numerous and distinct. The much smaller size, the white 

 upper tail coverts, and absence of a decided pectoral wash of A. Bonapartei at 

 once separate that species without further comparison. The similarity in every 

 respect except with regard to size presented by the A. mvnutilla is very great, 

 especially in immature individuals of the latter ; but its diminutive size renders 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



comparison unnecessary. The differences between tbe present species and the 

 A. Cooperi will be pointed out under the head of tbe latter. 



In addition to the characters given on the diagnosis, the following remarks 

 may serve to illustrate the peculiarities of the present species, with its varia- 

 tions. While the difference in size between the largest and smallest specimens 

 before me is very considerable, amounting to over half an inch in the wing:, and 

 more than an inch in entire length, the bill and feet vary but little in length 

 and proportion. The difference in the length of the bill is but about one-tenth 

 of an inch, and of the tarsus and toes it is less. The three are about equal, and 

 from 1-10 to 1-20 of an inch in length. The proportions of the quills seem con- 

 stant, the first being decidedly longest. The tertials vary quite remarkably in 

 length, iu some specimens nearly equalling the longest primary, and in others 

 being over an inch and a half shorter ; they usually, however, reach to within 

 less than an inch of the tips of the wings. The feathers, which encroach on the 

 side of the lower mandible but little beyond those on the upper, present an acute 

 angle, their upper outline being parallel with the commissure, and the lower 

 sloping rapidly backward. The crown is much darker than the hind neck, the 

 transition being marked and abrupt. The upper parts vary greatly in the 

 color of the margins of the feathers, it being of every intermediate shade from 

 a very dull ashy with scarcelj' a tinge of reddish to very bright chestnut. In 

 the latter case, the tips of the feathers are nearly pure white ; but this pattern 

 of coloration is mostly confined to the young bird, which, as is also the case 

 with A. minutUla, is of actually brighter colors than when adult. An evidence 

 of immaturity is always to be seen in the light ferruginous edgings of the 

 lesser wing coverts, which in the adults are merely liglt ashy. The same fea- 

 ture characterizes the young TtmHttdla, and is also found in the European A. 

 minula. While the pectoral wash is always deep and decided, its color varies 

 considerabl}-. In the adults it is usually a very dark ash, while in the young 

 of the year it has a light ochreous or buff tinge. In the former it fades gradually 

 into the white of the chin, while on the latter it forms a well defined more or 

 less triangular white patch. The line of demarcation on the breast is alwa3-s 

 sharply defined. In some specimens there are dusky shaft lines along the 

 sides quite to the vent. This species also sometimes exhibits the peculiar 

 dusky state of plumage found in the minutilla and Bairdii. 



Contrary to the general rule among the Sandpipers, there has been very little 

 confusion among authors with regard to this species, and its synonomy is de- 

 finite and well ascertained. The first notice of it hj an American author was 

 in 1823, in Long's expedition to the Rocky Mountains, where it was named 

 Pelidna pecloralis^ by Say. This specific appellaiion, certainly a most appro- 

 priate one, is that which has been in general use among authors, the bird bt-ing 

 as usual referred to both Pelidna and Tringa. It is, however, very different from 

 either, and is in every essential a true Actodromas. " Le tringa macule," 

 Tringa maculala of Vieillot, (1819.) unquestionably refers to the present species, 

 and the name has therefore priority over pectoralis. i^ichteosiein, in 1823, 

 named the species T. campestris, which of course is also superseded by macidata 

 Vieill. Degland, in 1849, presented the bird as Tringa domiriicensis, the name 

 being derived from the T. cinclua doviinicensis of Brisson, (1760.) This author, 

 however, was no binomalist, and has hence no claim to bestow names in such 

 a system. 



Actodromas (Heteropygia) Bonapartei (Schl.) Cass. — Bonaparte's Sand- 

 piper. 

 9 ScolopaxpusiUa, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1788, i. 663. 

 Pelidna cinclu.s, var. Say, Long's Exped. 1823, i. 172. 

 Tringa Schinsii, " Brehm." Bonaparte, Syn. 1828, (nee Brehm. quse T. alpina, 



var.? fide Gen. Rep.) Swainson. F. B. A. 1831, ii. 384. Bonaparte, Am. 



Cm. 1833, iv. 69. Nuttall, Manual, 1834, ii. 109. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 



1861.] 




200 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



1833, iii. 529, tab. 278 ; id. Synopsis 1839, 236 ; id. Birds Amer. 1842, v. 



275. Macgillivray, Man. Brit. Orn. 1842, ii. 72. Giraud, Birds L.I. 1844, 



241. Dekay, N. Y. F. 1844, 241, tab. 84, fig. 191. Degland, Ornith. Europ. 



1849, ii. 231. Lambeye, Aves Cubse, 1850, 98. Woodhouse, Sitgreave's 



Exped. 1853, 100. Meyer, Brit. Bird?, 1857, v. 96. 

 Pelidna Schmzii, Bonaparte, Comp. List. 1838, 50 ; id. Cat. Met. 1842, 60. 

 Tringa Bonapartei, Schlegel, Rev. Grit. Ois. Eur. 1844, 89. 

 Tringa (Aciodromas) Bonapartei, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 722. 



Sp. char. Bill quite stout, moderately long, equal to the bead or tarsus, the 

 tip somewhat expanded. Grooves on both mandibles long and deep. Feathers 

 extending on the lower mandible but little beyond those on the upper. Wings 

 long, pointed, first primary decidedly longest ; tertials long, narrow and flowing. 

 Tail moderate, quite deeply doubly emarginate, the central feathers somewhat 

 pointed and considerably projeciing. Tarsus rather longer than the middle toe. 

 Toes long, slendtT and slightly margined. Adult in breeding plumage. — Crown 

 and upper parts generally light brownish ash, each feather with a large field of 

 dusky towards its end, and on the crown and middle of the back edged with 

 light yellowish red, deepening into bright sienna on the scapulars. Lesser 

 wing coverts dark brownish ash, fading into light ashy on the edges, and with 

 shaft lines of blackish. Secondaries and greater coverts light greyish ash, 

 edged and tipped with white. Tertials very dark brownish ash, fading into 

 light ashy on the edges. Primaries deep dusky, their shafts white in the cen- 

 tral portions, and the innermost edged with white. Rump brownish black. 

 Upper tail coverts white, their outer series with sagittate spots of dusky. Cen- 

 tral tail feathers deej) brownish black, the rest very light greyish ash, broadly 

 edged and tipped with white. Jugulura and breast with a scarcely appreciable 

 ■wash of very light ashy, with very numerous, distinct, linear-oblong streaks of 

 dusky brown ; these extend as minute dots nearly or quite to the bill, and as 

 narrow shaft lines, along the sides to the vent. Rest of under parts white, im- 

 maculate. Lower mandible flesh colored for half its length ; rest of bill, with 

 the legs and feet, black. Young in August. — Upper parts a nearly uniform dark 

 ash, the black of the adults showing at intervals, but principally on the scapu- 

 lars, where also the reddish margins of the feathers are apparent. Jugulum 

 and sides under the wings with an ashy suffusion, more conspicuous than in the 

 adult, but much more restricted, and the streaks more obsolete and indistinct. 

 Central pair of upper tail coverts usually dusky. Other parts as in the adult. 



Length 7-5, extent 16, wing 4-8 inches. Bill, tarsus and middle toe rather 

 less than one inch. 



Habitat. — North America, east of the Rocky .Mountains. Europe. 

 The preceding diagnosis would characterize the species sufficiently well for 

 all ordinary purposes ; but in view of the great confusion which e.xists among 

 authors, most of whom refer it to a very different bird, a somewhat extended 

 account of its markings and variations appears necessary. A very perfect male, 

 in breeding plumage, from Great Slave Lake, and an immature specimen of the 

 same sex, obtained in Labrador during the month of July, are considered as 

 respectively representing the adult and young, and taken as standards of com- 

 parison. 



Adult. — The bill, which is quite stout, and somewhat expanded at the tip, 

 rather less than an inch in length, and about equal to the head or tarsus. It 

 is pretty constant, the difference in length between the longest and shortest 

 billed specimens before me not exceeding the tenth of an inch. The lower 

 mandible is flesh-colored for nearly half its length. The feathers extend on the 

 side of the lower mandible but little if any beyond those on the upper, and their 

 encroachment between the rami is not great. There is a white stripe over the 

 eye, and a dusky one between the eye and nostrils, but both are very illy de- 

 fined. The general co'or of the upper p.-irts is a light brownish ash ; but on 

 the back the feathers have such large blackish central fields, and so conspicu- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 201 



ously reddish margins, that the original color is seen only on the rather broad 

 tips of the feathers. Oq the scapulars the reddish deepens into bright sienna, 

 which borders the feathers evenly, showing little or no disposition towards the 

 scolloping so conspicuous in Bairdii and minutilla. Some of the scapulars, how- 

 ever, are simply bordered with the prevailing ashy, and ail ate tipped with it. 

 The long narrow tertials are sooty brown, fading into ashy on the edges. 

 The secondaries and greater coverts are greyish ash, the former much the 

 lighter, both edged and broadly tipped with pure white. The lesser coverts are 

 dusky brown, edged with lighter. The primaries are dusky, nearly black on 

 their outer vanes and at the tips, their shafts brownish at base, gradually fading 

 into pure white, which again darkens with black at the tip. The innermost 

 primaries are quite conspicuously edged with white. The rump is dark sooty 

 brown. The upper tail coverts are white, the outer series with sagittate 

 dusky spots. The central tail feathers are sooty black, with narrow lighter 

 margins ; the rest a very clear light ashy, margined and tipped with pure white. 

 The under parts are white; the throat, jugulu^n and breast with a scarcely ap- 

 preciable wash of very light ashy, and very thickly streaked with well defined, 

 narrow, linear-oblong marks of brownish black. These streaks, reduced to 

 their minimum, extend as minute points nearly or quite to the bill, and, chiefly 

 as narrow shaft lines, extend along the siiles under the wings to the tail coverts, 

 the dusky spots on the upper being the continuation of them. The other under 

 parts are pure white and immaculate. The legs and feet are black. 



Toung. — The young differs very materially from the adult. The upper parts 

 generally are of a nearly uniform dark greyish ash, the feathers with scarcely 

 lighter margins. The black central fields and the reddish margins soon appear 

 at irregular intervals, giving to the upper parts a moie or less variegated ap- 

 pearance. The reddish is seen mostly on the scapulars. The wings and wing 

 coverts are exactly like those of the adults, in this rnspect showing a remarka- 

 ble deviation from the usual rule among the species of this genus, where an 

 evidence of immaturity is to be found in the light ferruginous edgings of all 

 the lesser wing coverts.* The central pair of the upper tail coverts are wholly 

 dusky, and, in addition to the sagittate spots on the outer series, the interme- 

 diate ones are sometimes marked in the same manner. The wash on the jugu- 

 lum is considerably more conspicuous than in the adult, but at the same time 

 it is much more restricted, and the streaks are fewer and very indistinct. It 

 extends, however, along the sides much as in the adults. This state of plumage 

 is identical with thnt exhibited by the Trinya alpina at the same age in all re- 

 spects, except those of the reddish lesser wing coverts and black upper tail 

 coverts of the latter species. Though the adults of the two species are very 

 different, this close resemblance of the young was probably one cause of the 

 two birds being confounded by American writers. Between the plumage of the 

 adult and young, as characterized above, there are to be found birds of every 

 intermediate stage. A specimen shot in the middle of August has already the 

 markings of adult and young in nearly equal proportions, while a winter speci- 

 men agrees in almost every respect with the adult in breeding plumage described 

 above. This species is also found in the peculiar dusky state of plumage, where 

 all the features are very dark and scarcely relieved by ashy or reddish margins, 

 already adverted to in the case of Actodrovias maculata, Bairdii and minutilla. 

 It is most probable that all the species of the genus are liable to this curious 

 variation. 



The relationships of this species are decidedly closest with the A. Cooperi, 

 both having clearly the same form, and the pattern of coloration being very 

 similar. The greatly superior size, however, of the latter, independently of the 

 variegated upper tail coverts, different character of the spots beneath, and other 



* The same feature is seen in Pelidna alpina and Americana, a circumstance which 

 would seem to indicate that the two genera are closely allied, as is indeed the case. 



1861.] 




202 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



features, at once separates it without need of a more extended comparison. The 

 larger size, pectoral wash, and black rump and upper tail coverts of ^. maculata, 

 at once distinguishes it, while the very diminutive proportions of A. minutilla 

 render comparison equally unnecessary. Its relationships to the A. Bairdii 

 have already been discussed. 



It is a little extraordinary that with regard to so marked and well character- 

 ized a Sandpiper as the present, there should have arisen the confusion which 

 until recently has prevailed among authors, nearly all referring it to a very dif- 

 ferent bird. To use the apt and expressive words of the General Rpport, it has 

 been "sadly misnamed by American ornithologists." When in mature plumage 

 it bears very little resemblance to the Tringa Schinzii, Brehm., which, according 

 to the same authority, is " merely a smaller variety, or perhaps only smaller 



specimens of the common Trmga alpinn ." This grave error probably 



originated from two causes: first, that Say, in his original description (the first 

 notice of the bird by an American writer) designates it as Pelidna cinclus, var. ; 

 and secondly, that though the adults are as different as possible, the young of 

 the two, as already stated, are nearly identical in plumage, almost the only dif- 

 ference lying in the proportions of the bill and feet; characters which, 

 though important and essential, might readily be overlooked in birds of this 

 group, in which the colors were similar. This similarity in the young and 

 great difference between the adults of the present species and the Tringa alpina, 

 var., caused Bonaparte, in his American Ornithology, to fall into a curious 

 error. Under the head of Tringa Schinzii, Brehm., he describes the present 

 species accurately, properly quoting the Pelidna cinclus, var. of Say ; yet only 

 the description of what he considered as the young " T. Schinzii" applies to the 

 A. Bonapartei. For, speaking of the adult, he says: "This Sandpiper is well 

 known to appear in a summer vesture analogous to that of Tringa alpina, at the 

 same season, hut we have never met with an American specimen in that state ;" and 

 further on he describes adult European specimens as having " the breast almost 

 entirely of a jet black color," clearly referring to the so-called Tringa Schinzii, 

 i. e., to the smaller variety of the T. alpina. Nuttall, probably following Bona- 

 parte, commits precisely the same mistake. Audubon's Tringa Schinzii is un- 

 doubtedly the present species, though the measurements given are rather those 

 of ^. Bairdii ; and, for reasons stated elsewhere, I am inclined to think that his 

 figure of the male was taken from an individual in the peculiar abnormal dusky 

 state of plumage already so often adverted to. The descriptions of Tringa 

 Schinzii by other American authors, and by those European writers quoted in 

 the list of synonyms, all appear to refer to the true Bonapartei. 



The description by Schlegel, in 1844, of Tringa Bonapartei, unmistakeably 

 points to the present species, and, as it is the first distinctive specific appella- 

 tion, must be employed. Parzudaki, in his Catalogue, very wrongly gives Bo- 

 napartei, Sch., as a synonym of Pelidna maculata, (pectoralis of Say.) Scolopax 

 pusilla. of Gmelin is in all probability the present bird, as particular mention is 

 made of the white upper tail coverts ; but from the brevity of the description, 

 it is impossible to determine this point satisfactorily. 



AcTODEOMAS (Heteropygia) Cooperi (Baird) Coues. — Cooper's Sandpiper. 



Tringa Cooperi, Baird, Gen. Rep. 1858, TIG. 



Sp. char. Largest of the group. Bill considerably longer than the head, ex- 

 ceeding the tnrsus, straight, rather stout, tip scarcely expanded. Feathers ex- 

 tending on side of lower mandible scarcely further than those on the upper. 

 Wings long, pointed, first primary decidedly longest ; tertials moderately long 

 and rather slender. Tail moderate, slightly but decidedly doubly emarginate, 

 the central feathers projecting. Tarsus rather longer than the middle toe ; 

 tibia bare for half the length of the tarsus ; toes all long, slender and slightly 

 margined. Adult in spring. — Upper parts a nearly uniform light greyish ash, 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



each feather with a central brownish black field, deepening into pure black on 

 the scapulars, where also the edgings of some of the feathers have a reddish 

 tinge. Tertials sooty brown, fading with light ashy on the edges. Secondaries 

 and greater coverts dark greyish ash, edged and broadly tipped with white. 

 Primaries deep dusky, almost black on the outer vanes and at the tips, the in- 

 nermost edged with while ; shafts of all brown at base and black at tip, the 

 central feathers being white. Upper tail coverts white, with sagittate spots of 

 dusky. Tail feathers ashy brown, the central pair darkest. Under parts white; 

 the jugulum, breast, and sides of tbe neck with a slight reddish tinge, and, to- 

 gether with the sides, with numerous streaks and oval spots of dusky, which 

 become large and V-shaped on the flanks. 



Length (of skin) 95 inches ; wing 5-75, tail 280, bill above 1-23, tarsus 1.14 

 middle toe 1. 



Habitat. — Long Island. 



In order to exliibit more fully the features and peculiarities of this curious 

 Sandpiper, diifering in many essential respects from any other described as 

 North American, the following additiocal remarks may be required, that we 

 may be better enabled to judge of its relationships and affinities, which are mat- 

 ters of some uncertainty. The characters are taken from the type of the 

 species, the original of the description in the General Report. 



The bill and feet though rather stout for an Actodromas, are slender in com- 

 parison with Tringa. The tip of the former is but slightly expanded, and rather 

 obtuse. The grooves in both mandibles are long and distinct, that of the lower 

 being narrow but deep. The position of the nostrils is nearly intermediate be- 

 tween Tringa and Actodromas. The nature of the encroachment of the feathers 

 on the bill is identical with that of ^4. Bonapartci, and very different from that 

 of Tringa. The wings are long and pointed, the first primary much the longest, 

 as in Trim/a canutus, and the graduation of the others exactly as in that species. 

 The tertials are rather long, narrow, and flowing. The emargination of 

 the tail, though not great, is decided ; the central feathers project a little be- 

 3^ond the others, but are not much darker than the others ; the outer pair are 

 next in length, and the third are the shortest. The legs and feet are long and 

 comparatively slender. The tibia; are long and much denuded, the bare por- 

 tion being nearly two-thirds the tarsus. The latter is rather shorter than the 

 bill, but at the same time slightly exceeds the middle toe and claw. The toes 

 are all long, slender and slightly margined, and the hind one is well developed. 

 The coloration of the upper parts is very different from that of T. canutus, and 

 exceedingly similar to that of ^-1. Bonapartei, almost the only diflerence being a 

 rather less amount of reddish on the back. The rump and upper tail coverts 

 are much the same as in T. canutus being white, with sagittate spots and waved 

 bars of dusky. The pattern, and colors of the under parts, though agreeing 

 with A. Bonapartci in the absence of a decided pectoral wash, are yet very dif- 

 ferent, the spots being sparse, and extending over the whole breast, instead of 

 being very numerous and confined strictly to the jugulum and sides. In this 

 respect it approachts the young Tringa canutus or still more the adult ^/eune^es 

 pusillus, the similarity being heightened by the slight reddish tinge on the 

 jugulum. 



Having thus presented the chief peculiarities of this very unique Sandpiper, 

 we are prepared to discuss the question of its afiSnities. Were the size and 

 pioportions of bill, tarsus, and toes the same as in the A. Bonapartci, it might 

 almost be a question whether it were not an accidental variety of that species; 

 but the discrepancies in these particulars are too great to admit the doubt. The 

 differences from all other species are sufiiciently obvious. Granting, then, that 

 it is a distinct bird, it only remains to settle the question of its generic relation- 

 ships ; which, as it presents a most remarkable combination of the characters 

 of both Tringa and Actodromas, is a matter of some uncertainty. We cannot 

 but think, however, that all the most important characters of the bird incline 



1861.] 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



towards Acfodromas, rather than to Tringa, and that^. Bonapartei is its nearest 

 ally. While the actual proportions of the bill, tarsus, and toe of Tringa are 

 preserved, the difference in length of the bill over the tarsus, and of the latter 

 over the middle toe, is very trifling, and in the latter case, moreover, it is pro- 

 duced by a slight lengthening of the tarsus rather than by any shortening or 

 stoutening of the toes, which are long, slender, and slightly margined as in 

 Aciodromas proper. The claws are all long, slender, and slightly curved, while 

 exactly the reverse is the case with Tringa. The tibiae are bare for a consider- 

 ably greater extent, and the tibial feathers short. In the adults of T^rm^n these 

 reach nearly to the joint. In the slight (though decided) double emargination 

 of the tail, with its central feathers, but little different from the lateral, and in 

 the pattern of the rump and upper tail coverts, there is shown a near approach 

 to Tringa. The primaries are as in Tringa^ but the elongated lertials are those 

 of Actodromas. The stoutness of the bill and the position of the nostrils, are 

 intermediate between the two, but the encroachment of the feathers is exactly 

 that of ^. Bonapartei. The coloration of the upper parts, except of the rump, 

 is almost identical with that of Bonapartei^ and that of the lower much nearer 

 to it than to the adult T. canulus. 



From the above considerations, CFpecially in reference to the indications af- 

 forded by the legs, always important among the Tringeee, we cannot but con- 

 clude that the bird is Actodromas, rather than a true Tringa. Still we should 

 hardly have ventured to change it from the position assigned by such high au- 

 thority, had not Prof. Baird, in an attentive reexamination of tlie cliaracters 

 of the bird, acquiesced in our views, and expressed his entire approval of the 

 course pursued. 



In view of the many peculiarities presented, it might perhaps have been ad- 

 visable to consider the present bird, instead of the A. Bonapartei as typical of 

 Heteropygia. But as the two are very closely allied, and both subgencrically 

 distinct from Actodromas proper, we have preferred to give the common and 

 well known bird as the type. 



The subject of the present article, is, with a single exception, we believe, the 

 ouly known specimen of this excessively rare species. It is fortunately adult, 

 having been taken in May. The changes of plumage it undergoes, and the 

 extent of the variation to which it is subject, cannot therefore be given. They 

 are, however, in all probability parallel with those of .^4. Bonapartei. 



" It is possible that this specit-s may have been previously indicated under 

 some of the names quoted as synonyms, such as Tringa noveboracensis, <Sc., 

 although, from the brevitj^ of the descriptions, it is impossible to determine 

 this point satisfactorily." — -(Baird.) 



Having thus passed in review the species of Tringeee well ascertained to in- 

 habit North America, it may be well to notice those attributed by authors to 

 that country. As far as I am able to ascertain they are the following: 



Actodromas minuta Kaup. 



Tringa pusilla, Meyer. (Nee Linn. ; nee Bechst. ; nee Wils.) 

 Tringa minuta, Leisler. Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 385. Nuttall, Manual. 

 1834, ii. 119. 



It is not impossible that this species should occur in North America, or that 

 there should exist a " Pigmy" Sandpiper distinct both from the A. minutilla 

 and the European species. Observation, however, does not as yet warrant the 

 belief that such is the case. 



Actodromas Temminckii Bon. 

 Tringa pnsilla, Bechstein. (Nee Linn.; nee Meyer; nee Wils.) 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Trtnga Temminckii, Leisler. 



Leimonites Temminckii, Kaup. 



Tringa pusilla, 'Linn." Nuttall, Man. ii. 1824, 117. (Nee Linn.) 



This species, a specimen of which we have never had the pleasure of ex- 

 amining, is given by Nuttall as an inhabitant of North America, though in all 

 probability upon insuflScient or erroneous data. 



LlMICOIiA PYGM^A, Koch. 



Numenius pygmaus, Latham. 



Tringa elorioides, Vieillot, fide Parzudaki. 



Tringa platyrhyncha, Temminck. Nuttall, Man. 1834, ii. 114. 



This marked and very curious Sandpiper is stated by Nuttall to be "of very 

 rare occurrence in the United States." I have never seen an American speci- 

 men, and its existence in that country must be considered as extremely 

 doubtful. 



In addition to the above, nearly all the shorJ,-billed species of Totanince were 

 considered by the older authors as Tringece. Tringa rufescens, Vieill. of authors, 

 though given as a Tringa as late as 1842, by Audubon, is in all essentials a 

 true Tatler, and very closely related to Actilurus, Bonaparte. 



August Qlh. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The death of Dr. George Spackman, a member, at Philadelphia, 

 on the 3d inst., aged 56, was announced. 



On leave granted, the Committees appointed on the papers by 

 Messrs. Abbott, Elliott and Coues, read in July, were permitted to 

 report, and the papers were ordered to be printed in the Proceedings 

 for July. 



August ISth. 



Dr. Leidy in the Chair. 



Nine members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" On three new forms of Rattlesnakes," by Robert Kennicott. 



" Notes and Descriptions of Anoles," by E. D. Cope. 



" Notes on the Ornithology of Labrador," by Elliott Coues. 



August 27th. 



Dr. Leidy in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



[Aug. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



On three new forms of Kattlesnakee. 

 BY ROBERT KENNICOTT. 



Caudisona 1 e p i d a Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Head ovoid, tapering to the nose, which is very narrow, pointed 

 and much depressed. Nostril very small, circular and placed near the point of 

 the nose in about the middle of a single nasal. Two elongated frontals in 

 contact, extending behind the nostrils. Superciliaries and other large plates 

 smooth. Rostral sub-triangular, broader than high, the apex turned back 

 slightly upon the crown. Upper pre-orbital small and separated from the 

 post nasal by the width of two larger plates. Labials rather large, 12 above 

 10 — 12 below. Color of head yellowish ash. 



Two heads of a rattlesnke from Presidio del Norte and Eagle Pass show such 

 remarkable features as to render it justifiable to describe the species from 

 these alone. 



The head is much depressed, the general outline ovoid, tapering regularly 

 from about opposite the angle oftthe mouth to the nose. The crown is remark- 

 ably smooth and the occipital scales very faintly carinated. There are two large 

 frontals elongated laterally and posteriorly, with their inner ends in con- 

 tact. They are convex on their external, and concave on their internal edges, 

 and extend for nearly half their length back of the nostril. Behind and fitting 

 into the emargination formed by these, are two subquadrangular and smaller 

 plates in contact ; immediately behind these is another similar pair. On 

 each side of these two last pairs, at the edge of the crown, between the super- 

 ciliaries and anterior frontals, is a larger plate. The siiperciliaries are rather 

 small, and, like the other larger plates quite smooth ; the space between 

 the superciliaries is narrow, and filled with irregular rather large scales ; the 

 posterior part of the crown is also covered with rather large and smooth scales. 

 The pre-orbitals are remarkable ; the lower is, as usual, small and elongated 

 over the pit, but the upper, very small and quadrangular, is separated from 

 the nasal by the length of two plates, each larger than itself. In all the other 

 species the upper pre-orbital is large, more or less elongated and in contact 

 with the post nastal or only separated from it by the width of one smaller 

 plate. The sub-orbital chain is complete, and there is only a single row of 

 scales between it and the labials. The color of the head is uniform yellowish 

 or light brownish ash without any distinct spots or stripes, though each plate 

 is minutely mottled with brownish, and with a few scattering large black dots, 

 and there is very faint indication of the usual posterior facial stripe extending 

 over the angle of the mouth. 



The body of this species will doubtless exhibit characters as important as 

 those of the head. It will at once be distinguished from C. molossus and 

 C tigris by the single nasal, position of pre-orbitals, number and compara- 

 tive size of labials, and number of rows between the sub-orbitals and labials, 

 and by the narrow pointed nose instead of the broad blunt snout of C. 

 molossus and C. t i g r i s. It disagrees also with C. 1 u c i f e r in all of the 

 above characters, excepting the size of labials and the narrow nose, and differs 

 widely from that species in the depressed snout, wide rostral, and perfectly 

 smooth plates and scales on the head. By the smoothness and size of the 

 plates, and absence of the horn, it will at once be distinguished from C. 

 cerastes. It will be impossible to confound it with any of the eastern 

 species. 



Caudisona a t r o x Cope. Var. Sonoraensis Kennicott. 



Specimens from Sonora and vicinity show some permanent diflFerences from 

 the more ea-stern types ; and, though the difi'erences detected as yet are 

 thought too slight to characterize a distinct species, subsequent researches 

 with the aid of better material will very likely prove the western type to be 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



specifically different, in wliich event it may be named C. Sonoraensis. 

 In these specimens the crown presents a decidedly smoother appearance, the 

 plates being less corrugated and lying flat upon the crown without the up- 

 turned edges. They are also smaller, less elongated, and more nearly sub-cir- 

 cular. The stripe from the posterior angle of the orbit reaches the upper 

 labials at a point farther back than it does in the eastern specimens. 



Caudisona scutulata Kennicott. 



Spec. char. Resembles C. luciferin form and coloration of head, and 

 C. atr ox in coloration of body. Head narrow, nose depressed, rostral tri- 

 angular, as wide as high. Two rather small frontal plates in contact ; 4 post 

 frontals, the external large, overlying the nostril. The space between the 

 superciliaries narrow, filled with large flat plates. Scales on the occi^jut large 

 and smoother than in C. 1 u c i f e r. Outer dorsal rows of scales less strongly 

 carinated. Rattle remarkably slender. Dorsal rows 25. Labials 16 above, 

 16 below. Three rows of scales between the suborbitals and labials. Light 

 stripe from angle of eye to angle of jaw above the labials, and another from 

 before the eye to the labials, as in C. 1 u c i f e r, but the rostral and space in 

 front of the pit, and nostril not lighter than the crown. On the middle third 

 of the body a dorsal series of distinct rhomboids, margined with whitish and 

 with tlie lateral angles acute much as in C. a t r o x or C. a d a m a n t e a ; the 

 longitudinal angles sometimes perfect, at others truncate or emarginate. 

 Nineteen brown half rings posteriorly narrow, and separated by wider light in- 

 tervals than in C. lucifer. Rings on the tail narrow, irregular, and quite 

 black. 



This species so closely resembles C. lucifer that a description of it must 

 be comparative to some extent. The head is longer and narrower posteriorly 

 than in C. 1 uc i f e r, and the nose is much more depressed, the rostral being 

 triangular and as wide as high, while in C. 1 u c i f e r it is a third higher than 

 than wide. There are two small sub-triangular or sub-circular frontals in con- 

 tact, and behind these is a row of four scales, the outer and largest one lying 

 directly over the nostril ; posterior to these is a third row of five or six scales, 

 connecting the anterior extremities of the superciliaries, the external scale of 

 which row is a little in advance of the rest ; behind this third row two very 

 large scales connect the superciliaries, behind which the crown is covered 

 with plates much larger than in C. lucifer. The space between the super- 

 ciliaries is narrower than in C. 1 u c i f e r. The rattle is more slender than in 

 any other species excepting C. cerastes. 



The markings on the body of this species are much as in C. a t r o x, and 

 quite unlike those of C. lucifer. The ground color is light yellowish or 

 brownish ash ; on the middle third of the body there is a dorsal series of rhom- 

 boidal blotches more or less truncated before and behind ; anteriorly they be- 

 come elongated longitudinally, and not only truncated but sometimes emargi- 

 nate on the longitudinal angles, while the lateral angles ai-e rounded, leaving 

 the blotches sub-circular. Posteriorly the dorsal blotches continue to have 

 the lateral angles acute and perfect, till they become confluent with a lateral 

 series, and form nineteen half rings, six of which are on the tail. In the mid- 

 dle third of the body the dorsal blotches are included in 11 or 12 dorsal rows 

 and are 4 to 4^ scales in longitudinal extent ; anteriorly they become longer 

 longitudinally, and only 9 to 10 scales in transverse diameter. The dorsal 

 blotches are light brown, bordered for the width of one scale with darker. 

 They are separated along the back by a line of the ground color 1^ to 2 scales 

 in width, and immediately bordered by a narrow line lighter than the ground 

 color, as in C. c o n fl u e n t u s, a t r o x and adamanteus, this line being 

 about a half scale in width. Posteriorly the light intervals between the rings 

 widen to 3 or 3^ scales, while the rings themselves become much narrower, 

 being only 2 to 3 scales wide. On the middle third of the body below, and op- 

 1861.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



posite to the dorsal series is another row of small rhomboidal or sometimes 

 triangular brown blotches on each side ; they involve 4 to 6 scales and extend 

 from the second to the fifth lateral row of scales, and are bordered by light 

 lines like the dorsal series, from which they are separated by a single scale. 

 Indications are seen of another series of small blotches resting directly upon 

 the abdominal scutellse, alternating with and a little lower than the first 

 lateral series. The abdomen is whitish yellow without distinct blotches. A 

 light line from posterior angle of superciliary and orbit to angle of jaw above 

 labials, and another from before the eye to labials. The markings of the head 

 of this species seem to be very nearly the same as in C. lucif er, there is, 

 however, indication of a light border to the external edge of the superciliary, 

 and the rostral and entire space in front of the nostril and pit as well as a 

 little posterior to these, is as dark as the crown, while in C, lucif er they 

 are distinctly lighter. 



Though this species so closely resembles C. lucifer, it will be distinguished 

 by the dorsal rhomboids with perfect lateral angles, by the narrower and more 

 irregular rings posteriorly, by the lighter colors generally, by the slender 

 rattle, and by the depressed nose with the difference in the frontals, and the 

 larger, flatter, and smoother scales behind these. From C. a t r o x it will at once 

 be distinguished by the very different markings of the head. It differs from 

 C. t ig r i s in having the head wider behind and the muzzle narrower, position 

 of the frontals, narrower dorsal scales, and number of rows, larger dorsal 

 blotches, etc. 



Notes and Descriptions of ANGLES. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



Preliminary to a more extended memoir on the Anoline Iguanidse, the fol- 

 lowing contribution is offered to Naturalists. 



Xiphosurus v e 1 i f e r Grmj. Inhabits the Island of Vieques. 

 Xiphosurus cristatellus Qraxj. Very abundant on the Island of St* 

 Thomas. 



Anolis d i s t i c h u s Cope^ 



Size small, form robust. Head broad, muzzle short. Tail one and a quar- 

 ter times the length of the body, compressed, not verticillate, with an irregular 

 serrate crest. Dorsal and lateral scales equal, homogeneous, minute, granu- 

 lar, larger than the ventral ; the latter ovate, smooth. Humeral and superior 

 antibrachial scales equal to the dorsal; those on the anterior part of the fore- 

 arm larger. Anterior femoral and tibial scales equal to the ventral ; those of the 

 superior surfaces equal to the dorsal. Toes not of the most elongate type, reach- 

 ing the external auricular opening or the posterior border of the orbit, where 

 the limb is extended. No nuchal or dorsal dermal fold. Occipital plate sub- 

 circular, rarely in contact with the superciliaries, sometimes transversely di- 

 vided. Superciliaries five to seven on each side, sometimes in contact, some- 

 times separated by a row of minute scales. Palpebrals three to eight, smooth. 

 Facial rugffi but little developed ; interrugal space but little concave, covered 

 with a few small, smooth scales. A straight median suture divides the plates 

 of the anterior two-thirds of the muzzle ; the latter arranged in four or five 

 pairs, the smallest in contact with the rostral shield, the largest separated 

 from the anterior superciliary by a large polygonal plate, and from the series 

 of the canthus rostralis by a similar one, and in contact with it. Canthus ros- 

 tralis straight, falling below the plane of the muzzle. Loreal series four. Su- 

 perior labials seven. First infralabial smaller than first inferior labial or 

 mental, its longitudinal extent greater than the transverse ; the two succeeding 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 209 



similar to it— all in contact with the inferior labials. Goitre moderate. Length 

 of head and body 1 in. 9 lin., from shoulders to vent 1 in. 2 1., tail 2 in. 



Above brown, the head darker; nape and extremities faintly vermiculated; 

 tail indistinctly spotted laterally and superiorly. Some specimens with dark 

 shadings at the angle of the jaws, near the auricular openings, and on the 

 sides. Goitre, vent, inferior surfaces of femora and base of tail, light yellow. 



Habitat. — New Providence Islands. Bahamas. 



This species appears to be quite distinct. It resembles in its proportions 

 the young of Xiphosurus cristatellus. Specimens have been obtained by 

 my friend Mr. H. C. Wood, Jr., and are in the Academy and Smithsonian Mu- 

 seums. 



Anolis striatulus Cope. 



Size small ; form elongate. Head rather elongate, depressed, much as in A. 

 alligator Dum. Bibr. Tail once and two-thirds the length of the body, 

 moderately compressed, weakly verticillate, irregularly serrate. No dorsal 

 dermal fold ; an imperfect fold upon the nape, where two or three rows of 

 scales appear to be a little larger than those upon the dorsal and lateral re- 

 gions of the body. Anterior femoral and antibrachial scales large, smooth, 

 similar to those of the belly. Superior humeral, antibrachial, femoral and 

 tibial similar to those of the back. Occipital shield separated from the super- 

 ciliaries by small scales ; the latter usually in contact medially, four or five in 

 number upon each side. Palpebral disc rather round in outline, composed of 

 nine smooth scales. Facial rugje weak, soon obsolete, covered by three scales 

 anterior to the last superciliary. The space between these as far as the end 

 of the muzzle, covered with small smooth scales. Rostral plate bordered by 

 five scales, the median one fitting into an emargination between two mucro- 

 nations. Nostrils lateral. Canthus rostralis slightly concave, very obtuse 

 anteriorly. Superior labials eight. Loreal rows five. Anterior half of inferior 

 labials in contact with an inferior series of plates, which are longer than broad, 

 the anterior smaller than the first inferior labial. Goitre rather large. Two or 

 three small plates behind the vent ; scales at the base of the tail smooth. Ex- 

 tended posterior extremity not reaching beyond the posterior border of orbit. 

 Total length 4 in. 7 lin. ; tail 2 in. 11 lin. ; head from shoulder 8 lin. 



From alcoholic specimens it appears that the color is greenish gray above, 

 with very numerous darker marblings. The head and chin are darker. The 

 medial dorsal line is crossed by four deep brown spots bordered with white. 

 The anterior of these, on the interscapular region, is narrow and more trans- 

 verse. There is a fifth spot at the base of the tail. The latter is clouded with 

 brown superiorly, and the extremities are cross-barred with the same. Thighs 

 dark, varied posteriorly. Goitre red-orange, abdomen greenish, femora and 

 vent golden. 



The female (preserved in spirits) only differs in being smaller. 



The Academy's Museum possesses this species from Mr. R. Swift, and the 

 Smithsonian's from Mr. Riise ; a specimen has also been loaned me by Mr. 

 Theodore Gill. They were all obtained in the Island of St. Thomas, W. I. 

 The name is a diminutive oi stratus, saddled. 



Anolis a cut us Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada, 1856, 228. The 

 locality, " Cuba," assigned by Dr. Hallowell to this species with doubt, is pro- 

 bably incon-ect. It has been recently sent from Santa Cruz, W. I., to the 

 Smithsonian Institute by Mr. A. H. Ruse, and is also in the Academy's Museum. 

 An excellent description of it has been recently published by Dr. A. Giinther, 

 in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 1859, p. 212, under the name 

 of Anolis Newtoni. The specimens described were from Santa Cruz. 



Anolis maculatus Gray, Catal. Liz. Brit. Mus. 203. The habitat not 

 indicated. Dr. Gi-ay's description of this species leaves much to be desired. 

 Several of the numerous specimens of females before us so coincide with the 



1861.] 15 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



same author's description of A. lineatopus, that we cannot avoid suspect- 

 ing the latter name to be a synonym. The species is alluded to by Mr. Gosse 

 in the Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, p. 225. The identification of this, and 

 of the A. opalinus of the same author, would have been much facilitated 

 by the introduction into the description of the latter, of the characters which 

 best distinguish species from species in this genus, "the following may supply 

 some deficiencies : 



The head is rather large, and swollen round the occiput, so that the occipi- 

 tal plate is in a deep depression. The latter is small and separated from those 

 of the superciliary ridges by numerous small scales. The canthus rostralis is 

 very prominent and acute, nearly straight. There is a well marked depression 

 between them and the facial rugae. The latter are acute, circumscribe an oval 

 depression containing three or four longitudinal series of keeled scales, and 

 converge upon the muzzle before disappearing. Nine to eleven palpebrals, all 

 keeled. The loreal rows are six ; superior labials eight, inferior ten. Two 

 anterior infralabials narrow, half the size of first inferior labials, larger 

 than those that follow, which are in three or four rows. There is a distinct 

 nuchal dermal fold ; about six dorsal rows of faintly keeled scales, larger than 

 the lateral. Superior brachial and pedal scales, and anterior antibrachial and 

 femoral, strongly keeled. Tail crest slight, verticils not very marked. The 

 hind leg extended will not reach beyond the anterior part of the orbit — often 

 falling more or less short of it. The color that alcoholic specimens present is 

 a pale yellowish brown, with indistinct transverse brown markings on the 

 upper surfaces of the body, limbs and jaws. We can count five or six of these 

 transverse bands on the side between the axilla and groin ; they are here often 

 crossed by a narrow light band proceeding from the shoulder, mostly obsolete 

 posteriorly. Goitre unspotted, pale orange in life, according to Mr. Gosse ; 

 the toes are of the slender type. From the muzzle to the vent measures about 

 two inches nine lines ; from the latter point to the end of the tail 5 in. 5 lin. 



The males of A. opalinus Gosse are smaller. The median dorsal rows 

 are less noticeably larger than the lateral, and are fewer in number. The 

 front is nearly plain, from the disappearance of the facial rugae. The ventral 

 plates are smooth ; the superciliary plates are either in contact, or separated 

 by one row of scales, never by two, as is usually the case in maculatus. 

 In none of our specimens do the dark markings arrange themselves into trans- 

 verse bands, as in the latter, and the lateral pale stripe is much more con- 

 spicuous. 



In the female of A. maculatus the length from the muzzle to the vent is 

 1 in. 8 lines ; the tail 3 in. The dorsal region is pale, forming a more or less 

 distinct band ; there are two narrower bands on each side, more or less inter- 

 rupted, often indistinct. 



Numerous specimens of this species are in the Museums of the Smithsonian 

 Institute and Academy of Natural Sciences, which were sent to the former 

 from Jamaica by Mr. C. B. Adams. 



Anolis io duru s Gosse, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. 1850, 344. Inhabits Jamaica. 

 The ventral plates in this species are usually smooth ; they are sometimes cari- 

 nate. Specimens exhibiting the latter structure have been described by Dr. 

 Hallowell as A. punctatissimus, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1856, 225. This de- 

 scription will prove valuable to those who have to depend on that of Mr. 

 Gosse, who gives too few of the essential characters for it to be readily recog- 

 nized. The A. heterolepis of Dr. Hallowell, op. cit. p. 230, is the female, the 

 locality " Cuba" being probably erroneous. Numerous specimens are in the 

 Museums of the Academy and of the Smithsonian Institute, those in the latter 

 received from Mr. C. B. Adams, ^Nos. 5756, 5758^.) 

 Anolis (Dracontura) 1 i o n o t u s Cope. 

 Neck and extremities long; head short, broad, elevated posteriorly, concave 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA- 211 



in profile. Nostrils lateral ; scales of the middle and extremity of the muzzle 

 small, numerous. Occipital elongate oval, not in contact with the supercili- 

 aries. The latter, four on each side, separated on the medial frontal line (which 

 is concave), by a series of very small scales. Facial rugae almost obsolete, 

 enclosing an ovoid concavity, broader anteriorly, which is occupied by elon- 

 gate smooth scales. Three or four palpebrals of large size, surrounded by 

 several smaller plates, some of them weakly keeled. Canthus rostralis short ; 

 loreal scales in eight series. Superior labials eight. One large symphyseal 

 scarcely divided; no larger series (" infralabials") beneath the inferior labials. 

 Goitre moderate. Scales of the sides small, not keeled ; of the belly larger, 

 smooth ; of the back still larger, in about twelve rows, smooth ; no dorsal or nu- 

 chal crest. Tail stout at the base, compressed, the median superior scales flat, 

 offering no rudiment of a crest. Digital expansions narrow. Anterior extremity 

 reaching to the groin ; the posterior, to the nostril, when extended forward. 

 The scales of the upper surfaces of the extremities, moderate, flat, weakly 

 keeled. 



General color above, bronze brown, with a few darker shades on the dorsal 

 region. Tail and hinder extremities paler, femora light spotted behind. A 

 light band extends from the angle of the mouth to the middle of the side. 

 Beneath it there are brown vermiculations, which become darker near the 

 groin. Belly immaculate ; lips dark. 



One specimen in the Museum of the Academy, sent from Cocuyas de Vera- 

 guas, New Grenada, by Mr. R. W. Mitchell. 



Anolis (Dracontura) cyanopleurus Cope. 



Size small ; form very slender. Head elongate, facial rugae weak, converging 

 anteriorly above the plane of the canthus, enclosing an elongate concavity. 

 Series of superciliary plates not in contact medially, and separated from the 

 occipital — all tricarinate. Scales of the muzzle smaller, tricarinate. Two or 

 three tricarinate palpebrals; six loreal rows. Upper labials six or seven; 

 infralabials small, keeled. Six dorsal rows of more or less hexagonal plates, 

 smooth or tricarinate, equal to or larger than those of the belly, which latter are 

 strongly keeled. Scales of the sides small. Scales of the upper surfaces of 

 the extremities flat, keeled. Tail three times the length of the body, slightly 

 compressed, the scales of its median line similar to those of its sides, keeled. 

 The posterior extremity extended reaches the middle of the frenal region. 

 Digital dilatations narrow. Total length 5 in. 6 lin. ; tail 4 in. 2 lin. 



Under surface of head, body, extremities and base of tail, golden greenish 

 yellow ; a broad dorsal band of the same, involving only the six vows of large 

 scales. This band divides upon the nape, sending a narrow line to the poste- 

 rior border of each orbit. Occiput and sides deep blue, the latter darker near 

 the dorsal band, where it is sometimes marked with a longitudinal series of 

 golden dots. The muzzle and side of the head are dark bluish or blackish ; 

 in the males the goitre is large, and, with the abdomen, of a pale bluish tint — 

 not golden, as in the female. In the former, the posterior extremities are 

 marked with a few light cross bars ; in the latter the femora have an additional 

 light posterior border. 



The specimens described were found at Monte Verde, Cuba, and sent to the 

 Smithsonian Institute, by Mr. C. Wright, (Type No. 5737.) Some of them have 

 been presented to the Academy's Museum. The species is one of the most 

 elegant and brilliant of the charming little group designated by some authors, 

 as it appears to me without sufficient reason, as a genus, under the name of 

 Dracontura. 



Anolis (Dracontura) o p h i o 1 e p i s Cope. 



Size small; tail less than twice the length of the body. Occipital plate not 

 in contact with the superciliaries ; the latter, four on each side, the two ante- 

 rior largest, equal, not separated from the palpebral disc by small sc lies, in 



1861.] 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



contact medially, or more usually separated by a series of narrow scales. Pal- 

 pebrals about six in each disc, weakly keeled. Scales of the muzzle nnicari- 

 nate ; facial rugae not very prominent, much raised above the plane of the 

 canthus rostralis, enclosing a very shallow concavity. Superior labiils four 

 or five; first pair of inferior labials (" mentals ") large ; infralabials small, 

 elongate. Goitre small. Scales of the sides granular ; scales of the belly, 

 tail, extremities and from thirteen to seventeen dorsal rows, elongate, strongly 

 carinate. Digital expansions narrow. Anterior extremity not reaching the 

 groin, the posterior reaching the middle of the orbit. Length of head and 

 body 1 in. 5 lin. ; of tail, about 2 in., (mutilated.) 



The under surfaces are yellowish, unspotted. Above, the ground color is 

 golden olivaceous in the males, in the females golden brown. There is a slight 

 median dorsal line extending to the sacral region ; another similar one extends 

 from the superior posterior part of the orbit upon the anterior part of the tail, 

 and a third from the posterior superior labials, through the tympanic orifice, 

 upon the base of the tail. The superior lateral band is bordered above by a 

 deep brown band. 



Specimens (No. 5732) in the Smithsonian Institute from Monte Verde, Cuba, 

 from Mr. Charles Wright, and in Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



This species is somewhat similar in proportions to A. pulchellus, D. Sf B., 

 which it seems to connect with the Draconturce. 



Anolis (Dracontura) duodecimstriatus, Cope. Dracontura duodecim- 

 atriata Berthold, Ueber Verschiedene neue oder seltene Amphibienarten, 1842, 

 p. 18. D. Bertholdii Fitz., Syst. Rept. 1844. Norops macrodactyltts Hallow. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila. 1856, p. 222. 



Dr. Hallowell's description was taken from specimens much decolorized by 

 alcohol. The only differences noticeable, on comparing with Berthold's de- 

 scription, are, that the inferior brown band does not pass along the middle of 

 the side, but on the borders of the ventral plates ; and that the central palpe- 

 bral shield is not the largest, while the whole disc is in contact with the su- 

 perciliaries, with but one or two minute scales intervening. 



Habitat. — New Grenada ? Surinam. 



Anolis (Dracontura) alutaceus Cope. 



Size small, form elongate. Plates of the front and m.uzzle weakly many- 

 keeled or smooth, those of the superciliary ridge separated medially by small 

 scales, in number four on each side, the anterior largest and in line with two 

 or three large scales anterior to it. Occipital plate small, irregular, widely 

 separated from superciliaries ; the latter separated by granules from the five 

 to seven plated palpebral disc. Facial rugae distinct, not elevated, convergent 

 anteriorly, and enclosing a very elongate depression. Canthus rostralis straight, 

 elongate, not prominent ; nostril lateral, terminal. Rostral plate rather large, 

 its superior border curved, and of a light color. Upper labials seven ; lower, 

 nine, the first pair (mentonnieres, D. and B.) transverse, separated by a short 

 straight median suture. Goitre of female rudimentary ; of male, elongate, 

 perhaps not very extensible. Ventral plates smooth, transversely oblong, in 

 some specimens having a carinate appearance upon the thoracic region. Late- 

 ral scales small, gradually blending into the larger dorsal, of which there are 

 about ten rows, weakly keeled. Scales of the external surfaces of extremities 

 rather large, weakly one many keeled. Tail cylindrical, a little more than 

 twice the length of head and body. Posterior extremity reaching to ( '^ ) mid- 

 dle, anterior, or ( 9 ) posterior part of orbit ; anterior extremity two-thirds the 

 distance to the groin. Auricular opening moderate. Total length of adult 

 male 5 in. 3 lin. ; tail, from vent, 3 in. 7 lin. ; head to ear 7 lin. 



Color of the adult male above, dark cinnamon brown, deeper on the head 

 and extremities ; beneath paler, thickly pun ctulated with brown on the throat, 

 sides and extremities. On the head a light band crosses the anterior part of 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 213 



the supraorbital region, and another extends longitudinally back from the 

 rostral plate ; there is a light triangular area upon the posterior upper labials. 

 A dark shade upon the occiput. Posterior part of the femur pale ; digits 

 specked with lighter. In the female the colors are lighter and more varied ; 

 there are dark shades upon the dorsal region, and oftentimes on the sides of 

 the neck. 



Specimens (5737J) in Mus. Smithsonian Inst., whence the Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 has obtained examples ; part of a very valuable collection made at Monte 

 Verde, Cuba, by Mr. Chas. Wright. 



This species represents the same form as A. cyanopleurus and a r g e n- 

 t e o 1 u s, though in the nature of the scales it approaches slightly the L o y- 

 s i a n u s type. It is very easily recognized. 



Anolis (Gastrotropis) lemurin us Cope. 



Size small ; tail about twice the length of the head and body. Head short, 

 broad, front concave, eyes very large. Occipital plate small, elliptic, sepa- 

 rated from the granulations posterior to it by a single series of small plates, 

 and by two series from the superciliaries. The latter are in contact on the 

 medial frontal line, or separated by one row of very small scales. Facial rugae 

 obsolete ; one large scale bordering the first superciliary anteriorly, and sepa- 

 rated from those of the canthus rostralis by a few of nearly equal size ; the 

 remaining scales of the front and muzzle are small, (less upon the latter,) 

 polygonal, carinate. Nostrils subterminal. Canthus rostralis very short, 

 making an angle of 40° with the commissure of the mouth. Six loreal rows 

 of scales, six or seven superior labials, infralabials small, keeled. Palpe- 

 brals fifteen to twenty, more or less keeled, separated from the superciliaries 

 by small scales. A weak nuchal fold. Superior femoral and brachial scales 

 small. Inferior lateral scales smaller than dorsal, the latter, with the superior 

 lateral and ventral, keeled. Tail entirely cylindrical, covered with strongly 

 keeled scales. Anterior extremity reaching the groin ; posterior, extending 

 forward to the posterior, sometimes the anterior border of the orbit. Goitre 

 small. Total length 2 in. 10 lin. ; tail 2 in. 5 lin. 



Color leek-green tinged with brown anteriorly; muzzle brownish, a brown 

 band between the eyes. A crescentic brown band upon the occiput, angularly 

 bordered with black anteriorly, and having a median longitudinal black spot.. 

 A similar small black spot upon the nape at the confluence of two oblique 

 pale brown bands, one from each orbit, often pale bordered inferiorly ; the 

 pale border sometimes extending to near the groin as a narrow longitudinal 

 band. A third small black spot upon the interscapular region. Three or four 

 large brown spots upon the posterior part of the dorsal region. Sides and 

 labial region varied with brown ; extremities and digits obliquely banded with 

 the same. Belly immaculate, the reflections golden and green. 



Three male specimens in Mus. Academy from Veragua, New Grenada, sent 

 by Mr. R. W. Mitchell. A female specimen before us, from the same locality, 

 which resembles A. Sallei, as well as this species, has a broad, dark bor- 

 dered, ochraceous dorsal band, black bordered and partially embracing a pale 

 angular area upon the occiput ; a chevron-shaped brown band between the eyes ; 

 several dark lines radiating from the orbit ; sides and belly immaculate ; digits, 

 goitre and labial plates black spotted ; extremities immaculate, except a pale 

 mark on the nosterior face of the thigh. 



Anolis (Gastrotropis) argenteolu s Cope. 



Size small, form elongate. Head elongate, acute ; facial rugae obsolete, frontal 

 concavity shallow, short. Interorbital space vei-y narrow, orbits large. Can- 

 thus rostralis but little prominent anteriorly; nostril lateral, subterminal. 

 Plates of the front not small, subhexagonal, smooth. Superciliary plates four 

 or five on each side, elongate, in close contact on the median frontal line, sepa- 

 rated from the small occipital. Superocular or palpebral disc more or less iso- 



1861.J 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



lated by granules, seven-plated, of which three are largest ; all smooth. Loreal 

 rows fire ; inferior and supralabials nine, the former bordered by one row ante- 

 riorly, posteriori}' by three rows of infralabials. The "mental " plate large, in 

 contact medially by their anterior angles only. Auricular opening large ; 

 goitre none, (probably the specimen is a female.) Dorsal scales A'ery small, 

 those of the lower part of the sides perhaps smaller. The exposed faces of 

 the extremities covered with large, weakly-keeled or smooth scales. Tail 

 without crest, covered with small scales, at intervals verticillate. Anterior 

 extremities extending to behind the groin, posterior, to end of muzzle. Length 

 of head to auricular opening 7 lines ; from ear to vent 14 lines. Tail elongate, 

 (mutilated.) 



Above silvery graj', with four chevron-shaped brown cross-bands ; a similar 

 band upon the nape. The muzzle, occiput, extremities and sides of the neck, 

 are varied with pale brown, the last in a longitudinal manner. A short sil- 

 very band from inferior border of orbit to ear. Beneath white, with golden 

 and green reflections ; anal region and inferior surfaces of femora yellow. 



One specimen from Monte Verde, Cuba, sent to the Mus. Smithsonian Inst, 

 by Mr. Chas. Wright, (No. 5737|.) 



This interesting species pertains, as to its form, to the same group as cy- 

 anopleurus, exhibiting the same elongation of head and hinder extremi- 

 ties ; but the squamation is that of A. a 1 1 i g a t o r or b u 1 1 a r i s. 



Anolis (Ctenocercus) i s o 1 e p i s Cope. 



Allied to A. vermiculatus and angusticeps. Size small, form stoat, 

 head large, extremities short. Muzzle quite elongate, depressed anteriorly ; 

 nostrils vertical, longitudinal, their posterior border at a point marking one- 

 third the space between the end of the muzzle and anterior border of the oibit. 

 Auricular opening not larger than nostril. Front very plane, facial rugae not dis- 

 tinct, more acute anteriorly, where they converge. Canthus rostralis very pro- 

 minent, straight. Superciliary ridges but little prominent, each protected by 

 four plates. The most anterior of these is the largest, and in line with a lon- 

 gitudinal row of large, smooth, elongate, hexagonal shields four or five in 

 number, the last three pair elongate and in contact. They are separated by one 

 series of small scales from the rostral plate, and are in contact with the plates 

 of the canthus rostralis, and with a median series of similar plates which ex- 

 tend to the occipital. The latter is small, and separated from the superciliaries. 

 Palpebral disc irregular, having two or three plates much larger than the 

 others. Loreal rows three ; upper labials eight ; inferior labials nine, elon- 

 gate ; infralabials large, faintly many-keeled, in a single series anteriorly, 

 posteriorly in three rows. Goitre very small. The scales of the neck, body, 

 and extremities (except the inner surfaces of the latter) are of nearly equal 

 size, round or oval, nowhere keeled, but thickened medially. The extremities 

 are short, the anterior reaching two-thirds way to the groin, the posterior to 

 the shoulder. Digital expansions broad. The tails of the specimens are mu- 

 tilated, except in a young male, where it is entirely cylindrical, covered with 

 small keeled scales distantly verticillate ; its length is once and a quarter that 

 of the head and body. Number of maxillary teeth in adult male about twenty- 

 one ; of these only about twelve are tricuspidate. Teeth on the os palatinum. 

 In the female the head is shorter, and hence with more convergent lateral out- 

 lines. Total length, young (^, 30 lin. ; tail 17 lin. Length of head and body, 

 (^, 1 in. 6 lin. ; head to ear 6 lin. Ditto, in 9) 1 in- 4 lin. ; 5 lin. 



Coloration. — Greenish glauceous blue, paler below. A narrow light line ex- 

 tends from upper lip to auricular opening, and in the female there are a few 

 dots of the same color. She has also a series of indistinct dark spots on each 

 side of the median line posteriorly There is a purplish tinge about the jaws, 

 which prevails upon the whole body when the epidermis is removed. A 

 young male is ornamented with a few broad transverse bands on the back and 



[Aug- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



tail, with crescentic marks upon the nape, as in Varanus niloticus, and 

 light and dark variegations upon the front and chin, (Smiths. No. 5742.}.) 



Specimens (adults, Xo. 5738) in Mus. Smithsonian, from Monte Verde, Cuba, 

 Mr. C. Wright discoverer ; also Mus. Acad. Nat. Sciences. This interesting 

 species resembles somewhat the form of A. (?) c a r o 1 i n e n s i s, from Cuba. 

 In specimens of that species of very small size the facial rugae are promi- 

 nent, the frontal scales much more numerous, and those of the back and belly 

 keeled. The breadth between the orbits greater in is o lep is, and the au- 

 ricular aperture smaller. In the oviduct of the female was found a single 

 large egg. Observations upon numerous species of Anolis, incline me to adopt 

 the suggestion of Dr. Griinther, viz., that but one egg at a time is impregnated 

 and excluded. 



Xiphocercus Valencienii Fitz., Syst. Rept. 1843. Anolis Valenciennii 

 Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen. iv. 131, 1837. PUicopsU ocellata Gosse, Ann. Mag. N. H. 

 1850, p. 346. Anolu kucocephalus Hall., Proc. A. N. Sci. Phil. 1856, p. 228. 



The genus first defined bj- Mr. Gosse, as above, though previously named by 

 Fitzinger, is to be separated, in our opinion, not so much on account of the 

 size of the plates of the front, but by reason of their curious homology with 

 those of the plate headed Lacertidae and Scincida?, which is readily traced. In 

 the tail, and nature of the dermal covering, it resembles Eupristis ; in the form 

 of the head it imitates Anolis iodurus, and opal in us most closely'. It 

 is interesting to observe that both these species, and Eupristis Edwardsii, 

 Cope, inhabit with it the island of Jamaica. 



Notes on the Ornithology of Labrador. 

 BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



During the summer of 1860 I accompanied an expedition in charge of J. W. 

 Dodge, Esq. , which visited the coast of Labrador, in order to procure for the Smith- 

 sonian Institution specimens of the birds to be found there, together with their 

 nests and eggs, and to stu ly their habits during the breeding season. The 

 late period of arrival upon the coast, which was not until the first week in 

 July, ] revented any very extensive operations in the department of Oology, 

 while the nature of the localities visited, joined with some circumstances of a 

 private character, rendered the formation of a large collection of birds imprac- 

 ticable. In the following pages, however, are embodied the results of my in- 

 vestigations ; and though the list of the species noticed is, from my limited 

 opportunities for observation, necessarily incomplete, it is hoped that it will 

 not be found entirely wanting in points of interest with regard to the habits of 

 the birds which pass the breeding season in Labrador. 



A brief notice of the different localities which were visited may not be con- 

 sidered unnecessary. The first point reached was Sloop Harbor, a few miles 

 south of Little Mecattina, where were collected most of the eggs procured dur- 

 ing the voyage. Here the Somateria mollissima and the Utamania torda were 

 the most abundant and characteristic birds, while the Larus argentatus, Uria 

 (jrylle, and Mergus serrator were also very numerous, all breeding on the islands 

 in the vicinity. On the 6th of July, the vessel left Sloop Harbor, and, pass- 

 ing the Murre Rocks, where the Uria lomvia was breeding in immense num- 

 bers, proceeded directly to Esquimaux Bay, where the greater part of the 

 summer was spent. Here were collected most of the land birds procured, 

 among them the new Aegiothus fuscescens. Zonotrichia leucophri/s, and Anthus 

 ludovicianus were very abundant ; and Pinicola Canadensis and Turdus AlicicB 

 not rare. Grouse and Ptarmigan were also met with ; and I was fortunately 

 enabled to examine an extensive breeding place of the Mormon arcticus (?). 



A few days were spent at Rigolet, a station of the Hudson Bay Company, in 



1861.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



charge of Henry Conolly, Esq., from whom were received some valuable 

 meteorological statistics. On the 15th of August the vessel left Esquimaux 

 Bay, and proceeded to Henley Harbor, at the northern entrance to the Straits 

 of Belle-Isle. At that date the smaller waders generally had commenced their 

 southern migration, and during two weeks spent there, which completed my 

 stay on the coast, specimens of most of them were procured. 



In the preparation of the following pages, I have not attempted to present 

 the synonymy of the species, nor their diagnoses. To do so would be but to 

 repeat what may be found in full in the General Report on Birds, by Baird, 

 Cassin and Laurence, (vol. ix. P. R. R. Exp. and Surv.) Reference is there- 

 fore made to the images of this work ; and also to Audubon's Birds of America, 

 the standard authority on the habits of the birds, where the further history of 

 each species will be found fully elucidated. The names and authorities 

 adopted are strictly those of the General Report, except in a few cases where 

 some change appeared necessary, from the characters of the birds entitling 

 them to full generic rank. 



Falco (Hypotriorchis) columbarids Linn. — Pidgeon Hawk. " Sparrow Hawk." 



Falco columharius, Aud., Birds Amer. vol. i. page 8S, pi. 21. 

 Falco (Hi/potriorchis) columbarius, Cassin, Gen. Rep. page 9. 



The Pidgeon-hawk I met with on but two occasions. On the 5th of August, 

 while on a small rocky island in Groswater Bay, one was seen circling in the 

 air at a moderate height, and constantly uttering its loud harsh cries; but 

 owing to its watchfulness, I could not secure it. On the 25th of the same 

 month, at Henley Harbor, another individual was seen, foraging among the 

 immense flocks of Curlews, (Numenius horealis), which then covered the hills 

 in the vicinity. The Pidgeon-hawk is occasionally stuflFed and offered for sale 

 by the natives ; and from their accounts I should judge it to be not at all rare. 

 It is known to them, as the " Sparrow-hawk," by which name, however, they 

 also designate the F. sparverius. 



On the return voyage, when more than a hundred miles from any land,, a 

 Pidgeon-hawk made its appearance, and after circling about for some time, to 

 select the safest place on which to alight, at length settled on the outermost 

 bowsprit rigging, apparently quite exhausted. Yet even in this worn-out con- 

 dition so watchful was it, that on my levelling a glass at it, it instantly took 

 flight and disappeared. 



Falco (Tinnunculus) sparvertos Linn. — Sparrow Hawk. 

 Falco sparverius, Aud., Birds Amer. vol. i. p. 90, pi. 22.- 

 Falco {^Tinnunculus) sparverius, Cassin, Gen. Rep. p. 13. 



But a single individual of this species, so abundant in most portions of the 

 United States, was observed during my stay in Labrador. On the 10th of 

 September, however, while in the Gulf of St. Laurence, ofi' the Isle of Cape 

 Breton, several were seen during the day. They circled quite closely around 

 the vessel, showing but little fear. 



?Faloo (Hierofalco) Islandicus Gmelin. — Gyr Falcon. " Speckled Hawk." 



^ Falco Islandicus, Aud., Birds Amer. i. 81, pi. 19. 

 ? Falco {Hierofalco) Islandicus, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 13. 



I had not the good fortune to obtain, or even meet with, either species of 

 Gyr Falcon. The hunters with whom I conversed on the subject, said that 

 they were seldom seen in the summer, but that they become more abundant 

 in the autumn and winter. They were represented as at all times very shy 

 and difficult to procure, frequenting the highest and most inaccessible crags, 

 and subsisting mainly on Grouse and Ptarmigan. I could not, of course, de- 

 termine from these accounts whether F. Islandicus or candicans was referred 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



to ; but the habits of both are probably exceedingly similar, if not identical. 

 They are known to the natives under the name of " Speckled-hawks." 



AsTUR ATKicAPiLLUs (Wils.) Bon. — Goshawk. " Partridge-hawk." 



Astur paJumbarius, Aud., Birds Amer. ii. 95, pi. 23. 

 Astur atricapillus, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 15. 



I obtained a single specimen of this hawk, in immature plumage, from a 

 small collection of skins offered for sale by the natives. They know it as the 

 "Partridge-hawk," but further than this I learned nothing respecting it. It 

 does not appear to be abundaut. 



Archibuteo Sancti-Johannis (Gm.) Gray. — Black-hawk. 



Archibuteo Sancti-Johannis, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 33, 



While at Puffin Island, on Groswater Bay, I twice saw a large hawk that I 

 supposed to be this species. It was hovering at a great height over the island, 

 and constantly uttered its loud, piercing screams. I was unable to secure this 

 specimen, which was the only one I observed during my stay in Labrador. 



Aquila Canadensis (Linn.) Cassin. — Golden Eagle. " Grepe." 



Aquila chrysatos, And., Birds Amer. i. 50, pi. 12. 

 Aquila Canadensis; Cassin, Gen. Rep. 41. 



An intelligent hunter, whom I questioned concerning this Eagle, informed 

 me that though he knew it well, it was very rare, and very seldom obtained. 

 His description was so exact, that I had no difficulty in determining that the 

 present species was referred to, and not the Ilallicetus a/bicilla, concerning 

 which, though it may be found in Labrador, I could learn nothing He applied 

 to the A. Canah.nsis the name of "Grepe," or "Greep," the derivation of 

 which word I was unable to ascertain. 



Bubo Virginianus (Gm.) Bon. — Great Horned Owl. 

 Bubo Virginianus, Aud., Birds Amer. i. 143, pi. 39. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 49. 



A single specimen of this bird which I saw at Rigolet, made me aware of its 

 existence in Labrador. I learned nothing of its habits ; which, however, in 

 all probability, do not differ materially from those of the more southern bird. 



PicoiDES ARCTicus (Sw.) Gray. — Arctic Three-toed Woodpecker. 



Picus arcticus, Aud., Birds Amer. iv. 266, pi. 268. 

 Ficoides arcticus, Baird, Gen. Rep. 98. 



I did not myself meet with any individuals of the Three-toed Woodpecker ; 

 but I saw a specimen in a collection of skins made by the natives. It is pro- 

 bably not rare in the interior. 



Cerylb alcyon (Linn.) Boie. — Belted Kingfisher. 



Alcedo alcyon, Aud., Birds Amer. pi. 77 

 Ceri/le alcyon, Baird, Gen. Rep. 158. 



I ascertained the existence of this bird in Labrador, from a single skin in the 

 possession of the nativies. They considered it as a rare bird. 



Tdrdus (TcRDUs) Alicia Baird. — Grey-cheeked Thrush. 

 Turdux (Tardus) Alicice, Baird, Gen. Rep. 217. 



I was not a little suprised to find this species breeding abundantly in Lab- 

 rador, its habitat being given by its describer.as "the Mississippi Region to 



1861.] 




218 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the Missouri."* On the 24th of July I came upon a family of these birds in 

 a deep thickly wooded ravine. The young were apparently j ust commencing to 

 fly. Both parents uttered constantly a rather melancholy ";>/ieMr/A," in a low 

 whistling tone. The female evinced the greatest anxiety for the safety of her 

 brood, and endeavored to lead me from their vicinity by fluttering from bush 

 to bush ; and it was only with some difficulty tliat I secured both parents. In 

 the course of the same day I saw several of these Thrushes, only, however, 

 among the thickest firs. They all uttered precisely the same note, and were 

 very timid, darting into the most impenetrable thickets, so that it was with 

 great difficulty they could be procured. They appear to be very abundant in 

 Labrador ; probably full as much so as the T. Siuainsoni in most portions of 

 eastern United States. 



Tliere are readily appreciable characters by which this species may be dis- 

 tinguished from the closely allied T. Swainsoni. The uniformly longer, 

 straighter, and narrower bill is a striking feature. The upper parts are of a 

 much darker shade of olive, as are also the sides under the wings, and the 

 spots on the throat and breast. But the most prominent feature is the entire 

 absence of any buflf tinge on the throat and sides of the head and around the 

 eye, so conspicuous in T. Swainsoni. The whole bird is also considerably 

 larger. 



TuRDUs (Planesticus) migratorius Linn. — Robin. 



Tiirdus migratorius, Aud., Birds Amer. iii. 121, pi. 142. 

 Tun/us (Planesticus) migratorius, Baird, Gen. Rep. 218. 



The Robin, so common and well known tliroughout the United States, is 

 equally abundant in all well wooded districts in Labrador. Its habits are so 

 familiar to every one, that a detailed account of them would be superfluous. 

 I remarked, however, that they appeared to be shyer than might be expected 

 in a country where they are so seldom molested. 



Saxicola (enanthe Bechst. — Stone Chat. 



Saxicola ananthe, Baird, Gen. Rep. 220. 



? Saxicola cenanthoides, Vigors, Zool. Voyage Blossom, 1839, 19. Cass. III. i. 

 1854, 208 ; pi. xxxvi. 



I had the good fortune to procure a specimen of this interesting bird, at 

 Henley Harbor, on the 25th of August. The sailor who brought it to me 

 stated that it was in company with two others, but could give no intelligible 

 account of its voice or manners. It was in immature plumage, very difl'erent 

 from that of the adult, and was excessively fat. 



The North American Saxicola has by some authors been considered distinct 

 from the common European S. oenanihe, under the name of S. cenanthoides, 

 first applied by Vigors to a bird from the North-west Coast. The author re- 

 marks upon its very close affinity to the European bird, and apparently con- 

 siders the locality as the strongest ground for supposing a specific distinction. 

 The name was subsequently applied by Cassin, in the work above cited, to a 

 bird from Nova Scotia, the larger size and rather diff'erent proportions of the 

 tarsus being with this author the most important characters. lu a critical 

 comparison of specimens from Europe, Greenland and Labrador, I have been 

 unable to detect any distinctive features beyond those of size, and very slight 

 diff"erences of proportion ; which last, however, are not constant, or greater than 

 exist between undoubted specimens of S. ananthe. The difference in size is 

 no greater than would be expected from the more northern locality of the bird 



*I have since detected this species at Washington, D. C; and well characterized spe- 

 cimens have also been obtained in the same locality by my friend, Mr. D. W. Prentiss. 

 This would seem to indicate an eastern range at least equal to that of T. Swaiiiso7ii, 

 with which it is found associated, in the region west of the Mississippi. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



219 



examined. In the table of comparative measurements given below, it will be 

 seen that the specimens from Greenland and Labrador are very nearly of the 

 same dimensions, and also larger than European skins, though the details of 

 bill, tarsus, &c., do not differ materially. It is not impossible that Vigor's 

 bird should be distinct from the S. wnanthe, especially as the measurements,* 

 if accurate, would indicate a bird of rather small dimensions for so northern a 

 3 locality ; but at present I cannot but regard the Labrador bird as identical 

 with the European. The question can only be definitely settled by a series of 

 specimens from different localities in both continents. 



Comparative Measukememts. 



Regclus calundula (L.) Licht. — Ruby-crowned Kinglet. 

 Regulus calendula, And., Birds Amer. ii. 168, pi. 133. Baird, Gen, Rep. 226. 



A single specimen, a bird of the year, was obtained at Rigolet, on the 6th of 

 August, shot in a very densely wooded ravine. No other individuals were 

 observed. It is, however, in all probability an abundant bird in Labrador. 



AxTHUs Lddovicianus (Gm.) Licht. — Tit-lark. 



Anthus Ludovicianus, And. Birds Amer. iii. 40 ; pi. 150. Baird, Gen, Rep. 

 232. 



The Tit-lark I found abundant in every locality in Labrador which I visited, 

 and I had ample opportunities of observing its habits during the breeding 

 season. It is the most numerous of the land birds, with the exception, per- 

 haps, of the white-crowned sparrow, Zonotrlchia leucophri/s. Some of the most 

 rocky and barren islands along the coast are inhabited only by these birds, 

 with perhaps a solitary pair of horned larks, Enmophila cornuta. It fre- 

 quents only open, bare, and exposed situations, such as the coast of Labrador 

 every where affords, and is never found in thickly wooded localities. 



Two nests which I obtained, were precisely identical in situation, form and 

 construction. Each was placed on the side of a steep precipitous chasm, in a 

 cavity in the earth of about the size of a child's head, into which a little dried 

 moss had been previously introduced to keep the nest from the damp earth. 

 It was composed entirely of rather coarse dried grasses, very loosely put to- 

 gether, with no lining of any sort. The external diameter was about six 

 inches ; the exterior three inches, by two in depth. The eggs were in one in- 

 stance five, in the other four ; their average length, for they varied'somewhat, 

 was thirteen-sixteenths of an inch, by nine-and-a-half-sixteenths of an inch in 

 greatest diameter ; of a dark chocolate color, indistinctly marked with numer- 

 ous small lines and streaks of black. 



The parent does not leave the nest until nearly trodden upon ; then she 

 flutters off with loud cries of distress which soon bring the male, though with- 

 out attempting to lead the intruder from the nest by feigning lameness, as is 

 the habit of so many birds. The pair together hover over the head of the in- 



]861.] 



" Length, 5>^; wing, 3%; bill, rictus, %; tail, 2\i ; tarsus, 1." 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



truder, at times approaching within a few feet, and all the while expressing 

 their distress and anxiety by the most plaintive cries, until he withdraws ; 

 they even then frequently follow him for some distance. On such occasions 

 several pairs in the vicinity are often attracted to the spot, and join their cries 

 with those of the afflicted parents. Besides these cries, and their usual chirp, 

 these birds have a much lower softer " <sJ/>;" and the males during the breed- 

 ing season have a very sweet, pleasant song. 



The flight of the Tit-lark is performed in an unsteady undulating manner, 

 and is not ordinarily protracted to any great distance. On alighting they 

 rapidly vibrate the tail several times, in the manner of all tlie Motacillime. 

 They seldom or never alight on trees or bushes, but always on the ground, 

 where they walk or run with great ease and rapidity. They are fond of re- 

 sorting at low tide, to tlie " land-washes," (as the low muddy flats over which 

 the tide flows are styled in Labrador,) where they run about on the mud and 

 dried "Eel-grass," (Zostera), searching for food in company with the smaller 

 Sand-pipers, and very much in the same manner. Though finding an abun- 

 dance of food, none tliat I examined were at all fat. They at all times exhibit 

 a heedless familiarity and entire want of fear of man, though the observer may 

 be standing within a few paces. They feed unconcernedly around the doors of 

 the houses ; and I have frequently seen them searching for food on the very 

 roofs of the sheds and houses ; which, being thatched with brush, and a layer 

 of turf, afford a convenient lurking place for their insect prey. 



Dendroica pinus (Wils.) Baird. — Pine creeping Warbler. 



SijliHcola pinus. And, Birds Amer. ii. 37 ; pi. 82. 

 Dendroica pinus, Baird, Gen. Rep. 277. 



This, and the succeeding species were the only Dendroicas met with in 

 Labrador. The single specimen of the Pine-creeping obtained was shot in 

 very dense fir woods, on the 1st of August, and was a young bird apparently 

 just able to fly. 



Dendroica striata Baird — Black Poll Warbler. 



Sylvicola striata, Aud. Birds Amer. ii. 28 ; pi. 78. 

 Dendroica striata, Baird, Gen. Rep. 280. 



This species I observed in every suitable locality, and was the only warbler 

 I found abundant. It is very niimerous in all well wooded situations, and Is 

 a most expert fly-catcher. On many occasions I saw it dart into the air in 

 pursuit of flies, mosquitoes^ and other insects, and return again to the same 

 twig, in the manner of our common Wood Pewee, Contopitsvirens. This seems 

 to be a more constant habit with this warbler, than with any other of its 

 genus. 



Parus Hudsonicus Forster. — Hudsonian Titmouse. 

 Parus Hudsonicus, Aud. Birds Amer. ii. 155 ; pi. 128. Baird, Gen. Rep. 395. 

 This species I met with on several occasions, always finding them associat- 

 ing in small restless companies. I experienced great difficulty in procuring 

 specimens, owing to the dense nature of the firs they inhabit ; for when in 

 sight, they were always so near, that it was almost impossible to kill them 

 without mutilation. Those procured were all young birds, exhibiting the mark- 

 ings of the adults very indistinctly. They were remarkably tame and familiar, 

 hopping about unconcernedly within a few feet of my head, and hanging from 

 the twigs in every conceivable attitude. 1 could discover little or no difl'erence 

 in their notes from those of the common Chickadee, P. atricapillus, to which 

 they likewise exhibited a great similarity in their general manners, evincing 

 the restlessness and activity so characteristic of the latter bird, and for 

 which the whole family of Paridae are so noted. 



[Aug. 






NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Eremophila coenuta Boie.— Horned Lark. "Skylark." 

 Alauda alpestris, Aud. Birds Amer. iii. 44 ; pi. 151. 

 Eremophila cornuta, Baird, Gen. Rep. 402. 



Very abundant on all the barren moss-covered islands along tlie coast, and 

 in. every suitable situation on the main land. Labrador, indeed, from the 

 fact that it is the most southern region which affords the peculiar open and 

 exposed situations which these birds exclusively frequent, seems to be their 

 special breeding ground. In their voice, flight, and general manners I noticed 

 nothing different from their usual habits, well known during their extensive 

 southern migration, except that they of course do not associate in flocks dur- 

 ing the breeding season. To the natives they are known by their usual 

 name of " Sky-larks." 



PiNicoLA CANADENSIS (Briss.) Cab. — Pine Grosbeak. "Mope," "Redbird." 



Corythus enudeator, Aud. Birds Amer iii. 179 ; pi. 199. 

 Pinicola canadensis, Baird, Gen. Rep. 410. 



The Pine Grosbeak I ascertained to be not at all rare along the coast of 

 Labrador, where I obtained several specimens ; and it is probably still more 

 abundant in the interior. It is confined entirely to the thick woods and 

 patches of scrubby juniper. It is not at all shy, rather evincing a heedless- 

 ness of the presence of man, that must arise fiom the fact that it is so seldom 

 molested ; still from the dense nature of the firs it inhabits, it is rather diflS- 

 cult to procure. The female of a pair I obtained sat unconcernedly on a twig 

 only a few paces distant, while I reloaded after shooting her mate ; uttering 

 continually a low soft "sAep, " almost exactly like that of the common Fox 

 Sparrow, Passerella iliaca. Another note which I occasionally heard was a 

 prolonged whirring chirrup, uttered in a rather low tone, which appeared to be 

 the usual note of recognition between the male and female. This bird is com- 

 monly known to the natives by the singular appellation of "Mope;" the 

 derivation of which word I could not ascertain. It is also sometimes called 

 the "Red-bird ;'' and it has in addition an Esquimaux name, which, however, 

 I do not venture to attempt. 



Aegiothus Cabanis. 



Syn. Acanthis, Bonaparte, Consp. Av. 540. Nee Bechst. 1802 ; nee Keys, et 



Bias. 1840. 

 Aegiothus, Cabanis, Mus. Hein. 1851, 161. Typus Fring. linaria L. Baird, 

 Gen. Rep. 1858. 



Gen. Ch. Size small. Crown with a crimson patch ; the breast and rump 

 tinged with rosy in the male. Bill short, rather slender, conical, and acutely 

 pointed, the lateral outlines concave ; culmen, gonys and commissure about 

 straight. Upper mandible with several obsolete ridges parallel with the cul- 

 men. Base of upper mandible covered with rigid, appressed, bristly plumuli, 

 concealing the nostrils. Wings very long, reaching beyond the middle of the 

 tail ; first, second, aud third primaries nearly equal, second usually a little the 

 longest. Feet short, weak ; tarsus about equal to middle toe and claw. 

 Inner lateral toe rather longer tlian the outer ; hind toe rather longer than the 

 inner lateral, its claw longer than the digital portion. Tail moderately long, 

 deeply forked ; of twelve feathers. 



A genus of fringilline birds of the sub-family Coccothraustinw Baird, as de- 

 fined by that author, coming between Cannahina Brehm, (Handbuch, 1828, 

 Type /'. cannahina Linn.), and Leucosticte, Swainson, (F. B. A. 1831, iii. 265, 

 Type Linaria tephrocotis, Sw., ) though its affinities are clearly with the former 

 geniis. The general form, in the long wings, moderately long, forked tail, and 

 very short, weak feet, and to some extent the pattern of coloration, in the 

 conspicuous pileum, gular patch, rosy rump, &c., are very similar. But im- 



1861.] 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



portant differences are to be found in the slenderer, much more acutely 

 pointed bill, with its decidedly concave lateral outlines, and the different cha- 

 racter of the nasal plumuli. The toes are much shorter, the lateral unequal, 

 and the tail feathers broader and more rounded. 



Aegiothus of Cabanis (Mus. Hein. 1851, 161,) is based upon the FringiUa 

 linaria of Linnaeus ; and supersedes Acanthis of Bonaparte (Consp. Av. 150,) 

 which though used in connection with the present genus, is pre-occupied for 

 another group. 



Aegiothps F0SCESCENS Coues, Nov. sp. — Dusky Red Poll. 



A. Aegiotho linario paululum minor, rostro fusco magno, robusto plumids brevibus 

 sparsisque ; super or ibus partibus fascis, vix luteo striatis ; alis cauddque vix 

 alhido marginatis, later ibus distinct^ nee con/iuetitd fusco-striatis. Mas nupt, 

 temp, uropygio rosacea, pectore carmesino. Long. 5.25 poUices ; ala 2.90 poll. 



Sp. Ch. Bill large, very stout, the culmen and gonys slightly convex- 

 Nasal plumuli very short and scant, barely covering the nostrils. Wings very 

 long, pointed ; first primary usually longest, second nearly, sometimes quite 

 equal to it, third and fourth successively a little shorter. Tarsus about equal 

 to middle toe and claw. Inner lateral toe but very little longer than the 

 outer, its claw reaching scarcely beyond the basal third of the middle claw. 

 Tail of moderate length, deeply forked. Male, adult. — Bill dusky except at 

 base below. Frontlet, space between eye and bill, and gular patch, dull sooty 

 brownish black. Entire upper parts deep dusky or chocolate brown, the edges 

 of the feathers scarcely lighter. Rump whitish, tinged with rosy, thickly 

 streaked with dusky. Wings, wing-coverts, and tail, deep dusky, very nar- 

 rowly margined and tipped with dull whitish. Throat, breast and sides for 

 some distance bright rosy, or carmine. Sides thickly marked with narrow, 

 sharply defined streaks of chocolate brown. Rest of under parts white. 

 Female adult. — Rather smaller than the male ; rump but slightly tinged with 

 rosy, and few or no traces of the carmine on the breast, which is dull white 

 streaked with dusky. Other parts as in the male. 



Length 5.25 inches, extent 9.00, wing 2.90, tail 2.30. Bill above .35. 

 Tarsus .55 ; middle toe with claw .55 ; inner lateral .38. 



Habitat. — Northern and Eastern North America. Fort Resolution, (Keruii- 

 cott.) Labrador, (Coues.) 



The essential features in which this species differs from the A. linaria, are 

 those given in the diagnosis. Tlie most striking peculiarity of form, as there 

 stated, Lies in the bill, which in size and proportions more resembles that of 

 Leucosticte than Aegiothus. The nasal plumuli are much shorter and more 

 sparse. The other proportions are as in A. linaria, but the size is somewhat 

 less. The colors are very different ; the upper parts of A. fuscescens being so 

 dark and so obsoletely streaked as to seem almost uniform, which appearance 

 is further heightened by the very narrow light edging to the wings and tail, 

 which is reduced to a minimum. The sides are very thickly, but at the same 

 time very distinctly, streaked with narrow sharply defined lines of deep choco- 

 late brown. These streaks in A. linaria are less numerous, illy defined and 

 more or less confluent. The carmine on the breast of full plumaged males 

 appears to be deeper than is usual in A. linaria, while at the same time the 

 rump is less rosy. 



This interesting bird, though by no means so common as the Tit-lark or 

 White-crowned Sparrow, is yet abundant along the coast of Labrador, where 

 apparently it replaces the allied Chrysomitris tristis, its southern representative. 

 It is a remarkably unsuspicious and familiar species, showing no signs of fear 

 even when very closely approached. It frequents almost exclusively the 

 scrubby juniper which grows every where in open places, in thick, almost im- 

 penetrable patches. I do not think that I ever observed it in more densely 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



wooded districts. Its flight is performed in an irregular desultory manner, 

 rising and falling in cycloidal curves, and is seldom protracted to any great 

 distance. While passing over head it utters continually a peculiar rattling 

 chirp impossible to describe, yet once heard never to be mistaken ; and while 

 seated on a twig, or engaged in seai-ching for food, it has all the plaintive and 

 varied modulations for which the Chrysomitris tristis is so noted, and from 

 which the latter derives its specific name. I never heard any thing that could 

 with any propriety be called a song. The food of this species consists entirely 

 of the seeds of various grasses ; and when shot while feeding, it will be found 

 to have the throat crammed with them. In this respect, as well as in voice, 

 flight and general manners, I could not but be struck with the similarity which 

 exists between this bird and the common Groldfinch. Audubon, in his account 

 of the A. linaria, is at some pains to refute the opinion that there exists be- 

 tween that bird and the Chrysomitris, the great similarity in general habits that 

 has been ascribed to it. Receiving the testimony of that unrivalled student 

 of nature, the close resemblance which I am able to state does exist between 

 the present bird and the Goldfinch, would furnish, if necessary, additional 

 proof of the specific distinction of A. fuscescens and linaria ; since the habits 

 and manners of two birds, however closely allied, will always be found to differ 

 in some particulars.* 



Passerculus savanna (Wils.), Bon. — Savannah Sparrow. 



Emheriza savanna, Aud. Birds Amer. iii. 68 ; pi. 160. 

 Passerculus savanna, Baird, Gen. Rep. 442. 



The partiality of this species for low moist meadows and watery savannahs, 

 and the vicinity of the sea-shore, where it frequently associates with the Am- 

 modromus caudactitus, is well known as its most characteristic habit. In 

 Labrador, where it is abundant during the summer months, I never noticed 

 it in any other situation. It was frequently to be seen even on the beds of 

 dried "Eel-grass," (Zostera,) along the rocky shore, searchingfor food in com- 

 pany with the Tit-larks, and Bonaparte's Sandpipers, Actodromas Bonapartei. 

 It is a shy and timid species, when approached darting at once into the thick- 

 est and rankest grass. It is then ratlier difiicult to procure ; for it rises only 

 when almost trodden on, flies a few yards in a rapid zigzag manner, and then 

 darting down again, runs rapidly to a considerable distance. It is a very ac- 

 tive species, almost continually in motion, running nimbly through the tall 

 grasses like a mouse. I heard no notes except the usual sparrow-like chirp, 

 though in the spring it has considerable vocal powers as I have ascertained on 

 other occasions.! The young diff'er greatly from the adult, the plumage being 

 every where strongly tinged with ferrugineous, most conspicuous on the wing 

 coverts and tertials ; the under parts are thickly streaked with dusky. On 

 the 1st of September, when I left the country, the species was still numerous, 

 apparently as much so as ever. 



While off" the coast of Nova Scotia, the land appearing as an indistinct line 

 on the h< rizon, a Savannah Sparrow alighted on the vessel in so exhausted a 

 state, as to sufler itself to be taken in hand. After resting a short time, how- 

 ever, it took flight and disappeared in the direction of the land, which it no 

 doubt reached in safety. 



ZoNOTRicHiA LEucoPHRYS (Forst.) Sw. — White-crowned Sparrow. "Chip-bird." 



Fringilla leucophrys, Aud. Birds Amer. iii. 157 ; pi. 192. 

 Zonotrichia leucophrys, Baird, Gen. Rep. 458. 



This large and handsome Finch breeds in great numbers along the entire 



* iVo individuals of A. linaria were seen during my stay in Labrador. 

 tAt Washington, D. C, in the month of April. 



1861.] 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



coast of Labrador. Though I found it plentiful in every locality which I 

 visited, and in all situations, it seems particularly fond of deep thickly wooded 

 and secluded ravines, surrounded by high precipitous cliffs ; and when in more 

 open districts confines itself chiefly to the most tangled patches of juniper 

 and scrubby fir. It is a very active and sprightly bird, almost continually in 

 motion ; it seldom alights without jerking and flirting the tail, and rapidly 

 uttering its loud chirping. While the female is incubating, the male has a 

 habit of mounting to the top of the clifl!' or tree nearest his nest, and there re- 

 peating his loud, somewhat monotonous, but not unpleasing notes for a half 

 hour at a time. This song is very similar to that of the allied Z. albicollis, 

 the common White-throated Sparrow, and consists of two long drawn syllables 

 with a rising intonation, and then three more in a quick hurried manner, 

 with a falling cadence; "/>e<^, de^, de-df-di ;" the whole a mellow whistle. 

 Should the performer be observed or approached while thus engaged, he in- 

 stantly becomes silent, and dives hastily into the nearest cover. 



The nest of the White-crowned Sparrow is always, I believe, placed on the 

 ground ; and, oftener than elsewhere in the midst of the little patches of a low 

 heath that grows abundantly wherever the ground is dry enough. It is com- 

 posed externally of moss, internally of fine dried grasses, evenly disposed in a 

 circular manner. The eggs are four or five, oftener -the former. Nuttall,* 

 when he states that "the eggs, four or five in number, are said to be of a 

 dusky or chocolate color,'' probably had reference to those of Anothus ludovi- 

 cianus, which are much as he describes them. A nest of the White-crowned 

 Sparrow, which I found on the 23d of July, contained four young, but a few 

 days old. These, however, must have been rather late, as by the 1st of August 

 there were many young birds to be seen. The female, when surprised on the 

 nest, flatters olf in silence, retiring but a short distance ; but the male, if he be 

 near, instantly flies to the top of the nearest tree or bush, and there vociferates 

 his angry remonstrances, flirting his tail and jerking his body in the most 

 energetic manner. This species, though not so familiar as the Tit-lark, is still 

 frequently seen about the houses ; and it is known to the natives simply as 

 the " Sparrow," or oftener as the " Chip-bird." 



JpNCo HYEMALis (L.) Sclater. — Snow-Bird. 



Niphoea hyemalis, Aud. Birds Amer. iii. 88 ; pi. 167. 

 Janco hyemalis, Baird, Gen. Rep. 468. 



The Snow-bird, so common and so well known in winter throughout the 

 eastern portions of the United States, is not so abundant as might be expected 

 in Labrador, one of its breeding regions. From the fact that I was not in a 

 suitable locality, I did not observe it until the latter part of July, at which 

 time it was in small companies, the old and young associating together. They 

 kept entirely in the thick woods, and were rather timid. I heard no song, 

 nor indeed any note except the easily recognized chirp peculiar to this species. 



Until within a few years the breeding places of the snow-bird were unknown, 

 and its nidification involved in an obscurity remarkable for so common and 

 familiar a bird. But it is now well ascertained to breed in the entire region 

 around Hudson's Bay, and southward in the mountainous regions of New 

 York and Pennsylvania. 



Spizella monticola (Gm.) Baird. — Tree Sparrow. 



Emheriza canadensis, Aud. Birds Amer. iii. 83 ; pi. 166. 

 Spizella mont cola, Baird, Gen. Rep. 472. 



This little Sparrow is quite common in all wooded districts in Labrador. It 

 is there a very tame and unsuspicious bird, showing no fear even when very 



•Alanual of Ornithology, 1st ed. i,, page 479. 



[Aug. 






NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



closely approached. I heard no note beyond the usual sparrow-like chirp. It 

 probably leaves the country for the south by the 1st of October, as early in 

 November it is abundant throughout the United States as far south, at least, 

 as Washington, where it may be found in great numbers during the winter 

 months. 



ScoLECOPHAGCs FEREUGiNECs (Gm.) Sw. — Rusty Grakle, 



Quiscahts ferrugineus, And. Birds Amer. iv. 65 ; pi. 222. 

 Scolecophagusferrnijineus, Baird, Gen. Rep. 551. 



This, the only representative of the Icteridfs I observed in Labrador, appears 

 to be rather uncommon. I noticed nothing peculiar in its habits, very pro- 

 bably, however, because my opportunities for observation were so limited. 

 The only note I heard was the rough guttural ^' chuck," common to most of 

 the species of the family. On the 24tli of Jnly, I came upon a family of these 

 birds, in a densely wooded marshy spot. The young were at that time just 

 fully fledged, and were fluttering around the vicinity of the nest. The species 

 is confined to heavily wooded districts, showing evident partially for the low 

 swampy or boggy localities, interspersed with pools, for which some parts of 

 Labrador are so famous. 



CoRvos CARNivoRus Bartram. — Raven. 



Corvus corax, Aud. Birds Amer. iv. 78 ; pi. 224. 

 Corvus carnivorus, Baird, Gen. Rep. 560. 



This celebrated bird does not appear to be rare along the coast of Labrador. 

 The high, precipitous and almost inaccessible clifi's, which, rising abruptly 

 from the sea, give to this rock-bound coast such a barren aspect, aflbrd safe 

 and convenient retreats, where it constructs its nest, and ■ rears its young in 

 perfect safety. It is so excessively watchful and wary a bird, that although 

 we saw them frequently, not a single individual was shot by any of our party. . 

 Indeed, I know of no bird more diflBcult to procure than the Raven ; for in ad- 

 dition to its natural sagacity, which surpasses that of almost any bird, the 

 peculiar nature of the rocks it inhabits render the surprising of it almost an . 

 impossibility. Its voice is similar to that of the common crow, but far louder 

 and rougher. Ravens are most frequently seen in pairs ; and they often de- 

 scend to the sea shore, to feed on the dead fish, crabs, and other animal sub- 

 stances thrown up by the waves. The eggs, when they can be procured, are 

 eaten by the natives ; a species of vandalism well calculated to disturb the 

 equanimity of any ardent collector or naturalist. 



At Henley Harbor, an arm of Chateaux Bay, at the northern entrance to the 

 straits of Belle-Isle, there is a remarkable geological formation, known as the 

 " castle." This singular bittte rises abruptly to a height of between 150 and 200 

 feet above the level of the sea. The sides are either perpendicular or even 

 over-hanging, the strata perfectly vertical, regular and composed of pentagonal 

 prisms, remarkably distinct. The top is perfectly smooth and level, and^ 

 covered with a rich growth of moss, lichens, and the Empetriim nigrum. The 

 ascent can be effected only at one point, where the soft crumbling rock has 

 been worn away by the long continued trickling of water. The whole appears 

 to be in a state of rapid decomposition ; large masses of rock lie around the 

 base in confusion, the strata, however, still distinctly visible. The debris 

 thus accumulating at the base has raised a slope to within about fifty feet of 

 the summit. A narrow but very deep channel, cut apparently by the action 

 of the water, separates from it an island on which is another but less exten- 

 sive formation of the same nature. This "castle" was the abode of a pair of 

 Ravens, Miiich, I was told, had resorted there regularly for several years. 

 The nest was placed on a narrow ledge, inaccessible except from above by 

 means of a rope. It was empty at the time I visited the place. 



1861.] 16 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CoRvrs Americanus Aud. — Crew. 

 Corvus Americinus, Aud. Birds Amer. iv. 87 ; pi. 225. Baird, Gen. Rep. 566. 

 On the 14tli of July, while under full sail, a crow flew directly past the 

 vessel, near enough tor me to identify it without the possibility of mistake. 

 It was the only individual observed during my whole stay in the country. 



Perisoreus Canadensis (L.) Bon. — Canada Jay. " Whiskey .Tack. " 

 Garrulus hrachyrhynchus, Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 296 ; pi. 53. juv. 

 Garridus Canadtnsis, Aud. Birds Amer. iv. 121 ; pi. 234. 

 'Perisoreus Canadensis, Baird, Gen. Rep. 590. 



My first acquaintance with this remarkable Jay was on the 1st of August, 

 in a very dense spruce forest. Contrary to my previous impressions regarding 

 the species, on this occasion they were very shy, alighting only on the tops 

 of Die tallest trees, and fl.ving off with loud harsh screams on my approach. 

 'Subsequently, however, at Rigolet, I found them abundant, and very familiar ; 

 one or more were always to be seen hopping unconcernedly in the garden 

 I)atches around the houses, not in the least incommoded by the presence of 

 man, and showing no signs of fear when very closely approached. The voice 

 of this bird is a loud, harsh, discordant scream, very unlike that of the Blue 

 Jay, Cyanura cristata. It possesses all the cunning and thievish propensities 

 for which the whole family of garruliue birds are so noted. It is particu- 

 larly expert in stealing the bait from the fox and marten traps, on which ac- 

 count it is greatly detested by the hunters, who destroy it whenever oppor- 

 tunity occurs. Its most common appellation is simply '^ Jay-bird,^' though 

 it is also known as the " Whiskey-Jack." According to Dr. Suckley, (P. R. 

 R. Rep. xii. pt. li., p. 216,) who is indebted to Mr. Kennicott for the informa- 

 tion, this curious appellation is probably a corruption of the Chippeway name 

 " Wiss-ka-chon," changed first into " Whiskey- John," and then further twisted 

 to " Whiskey- Jack." 



The young Canada Jay is wholly of a dull sooty black, with no white what- 

 ever about the head. la this state of plumage it has been described and fig- 

 ured by Swainson (F. B. A. 1831, 11. page 296, pi. 55) as a distinct species, 

 under the name of Garru'ns hrachyrhynchus. 



Tetrao Canadensis Linn. — Canada Grouse. " Spruce Partridge. " 

 Tetrao Canadens'S, Aud., Birds Amer. v. 83, pi. 294. Baird, Gen. Rep. 622. 



Although the proper abode of the Canada Grouse is the dense and almost 

 impenetrable forests of spruce and fir in the regions around Hudson's Bay, 

 where it is an abundant bird, it is also found as far south as Maine and New 

 York. There, however, it is chiefly confined to the more mountainous regions. 

 In the west it is rei^laced by the closely allied T. Franklinii of Douglas, dis- 

 tinguished by the absence of the rufous band on the tall, and the conspicuous- 

 ly white margins of the tall coverts. The Canada grouse are mostly restricted 

 to thickly wooded regions, where they find an abundance of their favorite 

 food, consisting of seeds and berries of all kinds, and the buds of various 

 shrubs. When skinned they emit a peculiar aromatic odor, arising from the 

 highly flavored nature of their food ; their flesh is dark colored and rather 

 bitter. When disturbed they fly but a short distance, soon alighting on the 

 trees, in which position they may be easily approached. The young, which 

 seldom, I believe, number more than five or six, are led about by the parent 

 for somp time after they are able to fly. On the 24th of July I surprised 

 several broods, still under the cnre of the parent. The mother, on discover- 

 ing me, instantly uttered a "cluck," very similar to that of the common hen, 

 and flew on to the nearest tree, while the young scattered in every direction, 

 and concealed themselves in the thickest brush. A chick which I obtained 

 • at tliat date flew with perfect ease, though it could not have been more than 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



two weeks old, and was as yet covered with scarcely anything but down. Its 

 color was a dirty yellow ; the few feathers buff, transversely barred with 

 brown ; and in size it was about equal to a chicken a week or ten days old. 

 The species is invariably known as the "Spruce Partridge." 



Lagop0S albcs (Gm.) Aud. — Ptarmigan. " Willow Partridge." 

 Lagopus albus, Aud., Birds Amer. v. 114, pi. 299. Baird, Gen. Rep. 633. 



Great confusion prevails among the North American Ptarmigan, both with 

 reference to the number of species to be enumerated, and their relationships 

 to those of Europe. This is occasioned partly by the remote and inaccessible 

 nature of the regions they inhabit, which cause comparatively few specimens 

 to reach the hands of naturalists, and the difficulty of procuring them in sum- 

 mer plumage ; since in winter they are almost entirely white, and present few 

 distinctive marks beyond those of size and slight differences of proportions. 

 By the latest authority on the subject, four species are assigned to North 

 America: L. albus Aud., (the old Tetrao albus oi Gmelin,) the largest, en- 

 tirely white except the tail feathers, and with a very stout bill ; L- rupestrts 

 Leach, which is smaller, with a slenderer bill and a black stripe through the 

 eye; L. Amer icanus A\xd., a species doubtfully admitted, coming nearest to 

 the albus ; and L. lettcurua, a small western species, concerning which there 

 has been no difficulty. Two of these species are found in Labrador : the L. 

 albus and rupestris, known respectively as the "Willow" and "Rock Par- 

 tridge." The distinction between them is always recognized ; and they are so 

 named from the fact that the former is confined chiefly to thickly wooded dis- 

 tricts, while the latter inhabits more open and barren situations. 



On the 23d of July I came upon a pair of the larger kind, amid tangled 

 bushes in a low swampy situation. They were very tame and unsuspecting, 

 walking unconcernedly along but a few feet from me, though their being in 

 deep moult, and unable to fly, may have been the cause of this remarkable 

 familiarity. I am credibly informed, however, that at certain seasons, while 

 perched on trees, they can be captured by a noose at the end of a rod or pole. 

 Great numbers of these birds are skinned and stuff'ed by the natives, while in 

 winter plumage, and sold for about 25 cents apiece. While being skinned, 

 they emit a highly aromatic odor, very similar to that given out by tlie Spruce 

 Partridge. Their flesh is much used as an article of food. 



Lagopus rupesteis Leach. — Rock Ptarmigan. "Rock Partridge." 

 Lagopus rupestris, Aud., Birds Amer. v. 122, pi. 301. Baird, Gen. Rep. 635. "^ 

 This species also occurs along the coast of Labrador, though, as might be 

 expected from the densely wooded nature of the greater part of the country, 

 much less abundantly than the preceding. I did not meet with it except in 

 tlie collections of the natives. 



BoTAURus LENTiGiNosDS Stepli. — Bittern. 



Ardea lentiginosus, Aud., Birds Amer. vi. 94, pi. 365. 

 Botaurus lentiginosus, Baird, Gen. Rep. 674. 



The Bittern is the only species of Heron which ventures so far north as 

 Labrador, with the exception of the Ardea herodias and Nyctiardea Gardeni, 

 which may possibly be found within its limits. The only indications I dis- 

 covered of the presence of the Bittern was a wing in the possession of a hunter, 

 who, however, did not consider it as a very rare bird. 



Charadrids Virginicus Borck. — Golden Plover. 



Charadrius marmoratus, Aud., Birds Amer. v, 203, pi. 316. 

 Charadrius Virginicus, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 690. 



1861.] 




228 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



No Golden Plovers were observed nntil a short time before we left the conn- 

 try ; then, about the date of the departure of the Curlews, Numenius borealis, 

 they made their appearance in small numbers, in flocks of about a dozen or 

 more. Some of them were in very perfect plumage. 



Aegialitis semipalmatxjs (Bon.) Cab.— Ring Plover. "Ring-neck." 

 Charadrlus semipalmatus, Aud., Birds Amer. v. 218, pi. 320. 

 Aegialitis semipalmatus, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 694. 



The Ring Plovers are excessively abundant during the summer months 

 along the whole coast of Labrador, which is one of their favorite breeding lo- 

 calities. On the first of September they had not yet left the country, being 

 still as abundant as ever. When not separated into pairs for the purposes of 

 reproduction, they frequent mostly sandy beaches and muddy flats, where 

 they are found in loose straggling companies of from five or six to a dozen or 

 more individuals, associated with the Semipalmated and Bonaparte's Sand- 

 pipers. They scatter widely apart while searching for food, running swiftly 

 and gracefully over the sand, with the head lowered. They are at such times 

 usually silent, except when disturbed, when they utter a loud mellow whistle 

 on taking flight. Of all the smaller waders, none, with the exception of Bo- 

 naparte's Sandpiper, Actodromas Bonapartci, is so gentle and unsuspicious. 

 They never seem to notice an approach of a few yards, and indeed I have 

 sometimes found it difficult to force them to fly. They merely run swiftly a 

 few steps, and then stand perfectly motionless, regarding the intruder in si- 

 lence. The young run about as soon as hatched, and follow the parent, who 

 leads them in search of food. They are at this time prettily mottled with 

 black, lif^ht brownish and white, most of the under parts remaining of the 

 latter color. Birds of the year may at all times be distinguished from the 

 adults by the black of the bands being replaced by dull dirty ash. 



No individuals of the A. melodus were observed in Labrador, nor did I find 

 any indications of their presence there. From the fact of Audubon's finding 

 them at the Magdalene Islands, it is to be supposed that they breed, sparingly 

 at least, in the country. 



Strepsilas ihtekpkes (L.) 111. — Turnstone. "Chickling." 

 Strepsilan interpres, Aud., Birds Amer. v, 231, pi. 323. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 701. 

 The Turnstone I first observed at Henley Harbor, on the 20th of August, 

 when the smaller waders generally had commenced their southern migration. 

 How long they remain in the country I do not know, but on the 1st of Sep- 

 tember they were apparently as numerous as ever. Though not a very abun- 

 dant speeies, I was enabled to procure a suflicient number of specimens, and 

 to observe its curious habits. It aiforded me much pleasure to notice with 

 what dexterity they insert the bill beneath small stones and pebbles, and with 

 a quick jerk turning them over, seize upon their prey lurking beneath. Though 

 more sliy and wary than the Sandpipers usually are, they did not seem to be as 

 much so as the larger Tatlers. They are known to gunners by the name of 

 "Chickliugs." 



Phalaropus FDLicARiTJs (L.) Bou. — Red Phalarope. "Bay-bird." 



Phalaropus fuVcarius, Aud., Birds Amer. v. 291, pi. 339. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 

 707. 

 Three specimens of this species were shot at sea, off Belle-Isle, from a flock 

 of six. They were flying in a very compact body, much in the manner of the 

 smaller Sandpipers, for which I at first mistook them. The sailors called them 

 "Bay birds." While at sea we frequently saw this species, or the P. hyper- 

 horeus, resting gracefully on the water, particularly near masses of floating 

 seaweed. Indeed, the Phalaropes, as a genus, are noted among all the smaller 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



waders, both for their beauty and elegance of form, and their grace and ac- 

 tivity of movement ; whether running swiftly along tlie sandy shore, or swim- 

 ming buoyantly on the water, or stepping lightly over the floating leaves of 

 aquatic plants, their motions are equally pleasing. Tlieir lobed feet make 

 them perfectly at home on the water, and they are often seen at a consiilera- 

 ble distance from land. The fid 'car ius and hyperboreus are both known by the 

 uncouth and inappropriate, thougli curious name of " Sea-geese." 



Gallinago "Wilsoni (Temm.) Bon. — Wilson's Snipe. 



Scolopax Wilsoni, And., Birds Amer. v. 339, pi. 350. 

 Gallinago Wilsoni, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 710. 



From the accounts of the natives, I should judge that the Snipe is abundant 

 in Labrador, as it is in most parts of the United States. I met with but a 

 single individual. 



Macrorhamphus griseus (Gm.) Leach. — Red-breasted Snipe. 



Scolopax noveboracensis, Aud. Birds Amer. vi. 10, pi. 351. 

 Macrorhamphus griseus, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 712. 



I procured a single individual of this species in immature plumage on the 

 23d of August, but I learned nothing further respecting it tlian that it is known 

 by the name of " Brown-back." 



Tringa CANUTua Linn. — Red-breasted Sandpiper. 



Tringa islandica, Aud. Birds Amer. v. 254, pi. 328. 

 Tringa (^Tringa) canutus, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 715. 



This large Sandpiper I met with for the first time at Henley Harbor, on the 

 21st of August, when the Tringas and small Waders generally had commenced 

 their southern migration. A few specimens were procured, in immature plu- 

 mage, showing but slight ti'aces of reddish on the under parts. 



ACTODROMAS Kaup. 

 Actodromas, Kaup., Sk. Ent. Eur. Thierw. 1829. Typus Tringa minnta Leisl. 



Gen. char. Bill about as long as, or very little longer than, the head, 

 straight, slender, compressed, the tip very slightly expanded. Both mandi- 

 bles deeply grooved to the expansion of the tip. Wings long ; the first and 

 second primaries about equal, the rest rapidly graduated ; secondaries short, 

 obliquely incised at, the ends ; tertials long, slender, flowing. Tail rather long, 

 doubly emarginate, the central feathers projecting. Tibia bare for two-thirds 

 the length of the tarsus. Tarsus about equal to the bill, and equal to the 

 middle toe. Toes entirely free at base, and but very slightly margined. Hind 

 toe very short. 



The characters of this genus are well marked and decided, and are very dif- 

 ferent from those of Tringa, with which it is usually associated. In the latter, 

 the bill is very stout, much expanded at tip, and considerably longer than the 

 head or tarsus ; the tertials short, thick and comparatively stifi'; the tarsus is 

 much longer than the toes, which are very short, stout and widely margined ; 

 the tibial feathers reach nearly to the joint, and the tail is nearly even, with 

 the central feathers not projecting. The pattern of coloration is very different. 

 In all these particulars of form and proportion, Tringa has very little simi- 

 larity to Actodromas, which is well worthy of full generic rank. As already 

 indicated, the essential characters of the latter lie in the proportions of the 

 bill, tarsus and toe, which are of equal length, and in the doubly emarginate 

 tail. Other features are found in the elongated tertials, long, much exposed 

 tibife, almost entire want of margins of the toes, &c. The known species are 

 very similar in general pattern of coloration, all having the upper parts varied 



1861.] 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with deep brownish, light ashy and reddish ; the breast and jugulum with an 

 ashy or brownish suffusion, the rest of the under parts being white. All, ex- 

 cept A. Bonapartei, and A. Cooperi, have a central blackish field on the rump. 

 The genus comes nearest to Pelidna Cuvier, (Regn. Anim. 1817 ; type T. cin- 

 clus, L.) which, however, differs in the long decurved bill and some other pe- 

 culiarities. 



AcTODKOMAS MAC0LATA (VieiU.) Cassin. — Pectoral Sandpiper. "Grass-snipe." 



Tringa pectoralis, Aud., Birds Amer. v. 259, pi. 329. 

 Tringa (Actor/romas) maculata, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 720. 



The "Grass-snipe," as this species is most appropriately called, differs es- 

 sentially in its habits from any other Sandpiper with which I am acquainted, 

 except the A. minutlla. Between these two species, however, there is a 

 striking similarity, botli as regards form, color and general habits. I first 

 noticed the Pectoral Sandpiper at Henley Harbor, on the 20th of August, when 

 it had commenced its southern migration. I there found it abundant, and 

 had ample opportunities both of observing its habits and procuring specimens. 



This species is seldom or never seen on open sandy beaches, as it prefers at 

 all times the low muddy fiats laid bare by the tide, the pools and ditches 

 which intersect tliem, and the salt marshes by whicli they are bordered. They 

 are not restricted to the neighborhood of the sea, but frequent low wet mea- 

 dows and fields at a great distance from any large body of water. There they 

 walk slowly and sedately through the grass in search of food, having little or 

 none of the restless activity which characterizes most Sandpipers. While thus 

 engaged the tail is generally elevated, somewhat on the manner of the Zenai- 

 dura Carolinensis, if comparison can be made between two birds so dissimilar. 

 This habit of frequenting meadows has gained for them their common appella- 

 tion of "Grass-snipe." When they rise from the grass to alight again at a 

 short distance, they do so in silence, or with a single " tweet," and fly slowly 

 evenly, and with the wings deeply incurved. When, however, they are fright- 

 ened, by being repeatedly forced up, or when they are suddenly startled, they 

 spring vigorously, emitting loud rapidly repeated notes, aud fly in a quick 

 zigzag manner, like the common snipe. They are then equally difficult to 

 shoot. On several occasions I have noticed a habit which this bird possesses, 

 which I do not recollect of ever having seen stated. When suddenly startled 

 they rise with a loud note, and mounting very high in the air circle over the 

 head of the intruder for several minutes, flying with very great rapidity and 

 in perfect silence. When about to alight, which they often do at the very 

 spot from which they rose, they nearly close the wings, and dart suddenly 

 down in an almost perpendicular direction. This curious habit I have also ob- 

 served at Portsmovith, N. H., and frequently at Washington, D. C. 



This species is found in pairs or singly, and never, I believe, in flocks of 

 any extent. They are very tame and unsuspicious, permitting a near approach 

 without becoming alarmed. In the fall they are excessively fat and delicately 

 flavored, and afford delicious eating. Very little is known of their breeding 

 places, or of their peculiar habits during the season of reproduction. 



AcTOBKOMAs MiKUTiLLA (Vicill.) Coucs. — Least Sandpiper. "Peep." 



Tringa minntilla, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 466. Gray, Genera, 1849, 

 iii. 579. 



Actodromas viinutiUa, Coues, Monog. Trivg. N. A., in Pr. A. N. S. Ph. Juh' 

 1861, 191. 



Trinqa pusilla, Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, v. 32, pi. xxxvii. fig. 4; id. Brew. 

 Ed. 1840, 347, fig. 161 ; id. Ord. Ed. 1829, iii. 134 ; nee Linn»i. Swainson, 

 F. B. A. 1831, ii. 386. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 1834, iv. 180; id. Birds 

 Amer. 1842, v. 280, pi. 337 ; id. Syn. 1839, 237. Giraud, Birds L. I. 1844, 

 240. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 579. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 231 



Pelidna pusilla, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 50. Gosse, Birds Jamaica, 



1847, 348. 

 Tringa {Tringa) pusilla, Bonaparte, Comp. Speech. 1827, 62. 

 Tringa Wilsoni, Nuttall, Manual, 1834, ii. 121. Cooper and Suckley, Nat. 



Hist. Wash. Terr. 18t50, 240. Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. 18G0, xiii. 19G. 

 Tringa {Actodromas) Wilsoni, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 721. 



Until very recently, great confusion has prevailed among the smaller Sand- 

 pipers ; and even now, though the species are pretty well ascertained, the 

 proper name applied to each, and their synonomy, are points which are not yet 

 definitely settled. With regard to no name, however, has there been so much 

 difficulty as to that of Tringa pusilla Linn., the proper locating of which has 

 ever been a disputed point. Most authors have referred it to the bird, which 

 Wilson, in 1813, (Am. Orn. ut supra,) designated by that name, and which 

 was subsequently, in 1834, dedicated to that naturalist by Nuttall, (Man. Orn. 

 ut supra.) Audubon, in all his works. Gray, in his genera, and Bonaparte, 

 in his earlier works, adopted the name of pusilla for the present bird. As 

 early as 1825, however, Bonaparte was aware that the T. punlla of Linnseus 

 was not the bird that Wilson gave under that name ; for, in his observations 

 on Wilson's Nomenclature, pages 88, 89, on the subject of Tringa semi pal mata, 

 Wils., he says, "Several species have been confounded together under the 

 name of T. pusilla; and although the present " ( J", semipalmata, Wils.) " is the 

 real species," &c. In 1858, Cassin (Gen. Rep. page 725) proved pretty con- 

 clusively that the T. pusilla of Linnseus, based upon the T. cinclns domini- 

 censis minor of Brisson, is really the Ereunetes petrificatus of lUiger, though he 

 does not change Illiger's specific name. This, however, he has recently done 

 in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy, (xii. 195, I860,) where he 

 gives the bird as E. pusillus. 



The name of pusilla, then, being exploded for the species now under con- 

 sideration, the question arises what specific name is to be applied to it. Later 

 authors have mostly taken that of Wilsoni, given to the species in 1834, by 

 Nuttall, who describes its habits so accurately that tliere can be no doubt as 

 to what bird he has reference. But the claims of "Le tringa maringouin," 

 Tringa minutiUa of Vieillot (Nouv. Diet ut supra) to be the present species, 

 appear to have been overlooked, or at least not generally conceded. Brewer, 

 indeed, in his edition of Wilson, in 1840, quotes it, and Cassin, in the General 

 Report in 1858, gives it as a synonym, but both with a query. But that 

 Tringa minutilla really refers to the present species, there can be, I think, no 

 reasonable doubt. Vieillot, page 466 of the Nouv. Diet., says of it, " Le nom 

 que j'ai conserve a cet oiseau est celui sous lequel il est connu dans nos colo- 

 nies de I'Amerique, et qui lui a ete impose d'apres sa petite taille ;" and after 

 a description which applies well, he continues — " II a des rapports avec le 

 tringa i7iinut'i de Leisler, " and adds, speaking of its habits, " Comme les trin- 

 gas becos se comportent de meme, il est rcsulte qu'on les a confondus ensem- 

 ble." The description, especially with reference to size ("quatre pouces dix 

 lignes ") and to the length and proportions of the bill, (" noir, tres grele, et 

 long de neuf lignes ; les tarses de la meme longuer, ") will apply to no other 

 species. Another evidence that this description has reference to the Actodro- 

 mas yVilsoni, is the fact that the author recognizes Trim/n semipalmata, Wils. 

 " Le tringa demipalme " as a totally distinct species. What the " tringa beco, 

 Tringa pusilla. Lath.," of page 452 of the same work, refers to, is rather diffi- 

 cult to determine. Vieillot refers to the Am. Orn. plate 37, fig 4, which is 

 Tringa pusilla of Wilson ; but also quotes Brisson 's " petite Alouette-de-mer 

 de Saint-Dominque " which is Ereumtes petrijicatus of the General Report. 

 The description, however, applies best to the latter, which it may be well to 

 consider it. 



From the foregoing considerations, therefore, I cannot but adopt the specific 

 name of minutilla, which has priority over Wilsoni, at least until weightier 



1861.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



reasons are adduced on the opposite side of the question. With regard to the 

 generic characters tliere is not the slightest difficulty. The hird presents the 

 closest affinity to the type of the genus Actodromas, (T. minuta Leisl.,) and 

 is very ditferent from either Tringa or Pelidna, in hoth of which it has been 

 placed. 



This diminutive species, in form, color and general habits, is very closely 

 allied to the preceding, of which it is in fact a perfect miniature. As far as 

 m.y own observation extends, the same remarks with regard to the manners, 

 voice, flight, &c., apply equally well to this species. It even possesses the 

 curious habit mentioned ixnder the preceding bird. Though so much smaller, 

 its note is fully as loud and piercing. The chief dilference is, that in the fall 

 the Least Sandpipers collect in flocks of considerable extent, and that they are 

 found on sandy beaches oftener than are the Pectoral Sandpipers. Neverthe- 

 less, its favorite situations are low muddy flats, and the ditches that intersect 

 marshy and sedgy fields, where it finds an abundance of its favorite food. In 

 Labrador I think I never observed them in any other situations. They search 

 for food with remarkable industry and perseverance, carefully examining with 

 their delicate bills every inch of ground they pass over ; while thus engaged 

 they may be approached within a few feet without showing any signs of fear. 

 Together with the A. Bonapartei and the Ereunetes pusillus, they ai"e known 

 by the common name of " Peeps." On the first of September they had not 

 left the country, being still abundant. 



AcTODKOMAS (Heteropygia) Bonapartei (Schl.) Cassin. — Bonaparte's Sand- 

 piper. "Peep." 



Pelidna cinclus, var. Say, Long's Exped, 1823, i. 172. 



Trinifa Schinzii, "Brehm." Bon. Syn. 1S28. [Nee Brehm.] fide Gen. Eep. 



Aud. Birds Amer. 1842, v. 275, pi. 335, et al. Auct. Amer. 

 Tringa Bonapartei, Schlegel, Rev. Crit. Ois. Eur. 1844, 89. 

 Tringa {Actodromas) Bonapartei, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 722. 

 Actodromas {Hettropygia) Bonapartei, Coues, Monogr. Tring. N. A., in Pr. A. 



N. S. Ph. July, 1861, 199. 

 Audubon, in his account of this species, remarks : " Those procured in Lab- 

 rador were shot in the beginning of August, and were all young birds, appa- 

 rently about to take their departure." I met it for the first time on the 30th 

 of July ; but on the first of September, when I left the country, they were still 

 as numerous as ever. They are found in great abundance on the rouky shores 

 of Labrador, where covered with sea-weed and interspersed with muddy flats 

 and shallow pools, in which last the birds wade quite up to the breast. I have 

 also frequently seen them in a situation where I never found any other Sand- 

 piper — on the large masses of rock sloj^ing down abruptly to the water, green 

 and slippery from the continued falling of the spray. They seem to be very 

 fond of these locations, and I seldom passed one without seeing several of 

 these " peeps " running nimbly about ; and I have actually approached with- 

 in three or four feet of them, as they stood motionless regarding me with 

 curious eye. Of all the Sandpipers this is the most gentle and unsuspecting ; 

 they seem utterly regardless of the presence of man, and do not intermit their 

 oscupation of searching for food, though the observer may be standing within 

 a few feet of them. When startled they emit a low soft " wee< " very difi"er- 

 ent from that of any other Sandpiper, and fly otf in a very compact flock. If 

 a part of them be killed, the gunner may commit equal havoc with his second 

 barrel, as after a few cirolings they fly past, or aliglit again on the same spot. 

 They fly rapidly, in a rather unsteaiiy manner, alternately showing the 

 under and upper parts ; aud they may always be recognized in flight by the 

 conspioaously white upper tail coverts. They usually associate with the 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Semipalmated Sandpipers and the Ring Plovers, and in common with other 

 small species are known by the general name of " Peeps." Those that I shot 

 were not so excessively fat as the A. maculata and Ereunetes pusillus commonly 

 are at the same season. 



Ereunetes pusillus (Briss.) Cassin. — Semipalmated Sandpiper. " Peep." 



Tringa cinclus dominicensis minor, Brisson, Ornith. 1760, v. 222, pi. xxv. fig. 2, 



[hand dubie.] 

 Tringa pusilla, Linnseus, Syst. Nat. 1766, 1. 252, fide Gen. Rep. 

 ? Tringa pusilla, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 452, [ad T. cincl. dom. min. 



Briss. refert.] 

 Ereunetes petrificatus, lUiger, Prod. 1811, 262. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 1858, 724. 

 Tringa semipalmata, "Wilson, Am. Orn. 1813, vii. 131, pi. Ixiii. fig. 4; id. Ord. 



Ed. 1h29, iii. 132, pi. Ixiii. fig. 4 ; id. Brewer, Ed. 1840, 542, fig. 225 ; ibid. 



Svn. 725. Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 1819, xxxiv. 462 ; Diet. Class d'Hist. Nat. 



1822, ii. 251. Swainson, F. B. A. 1831, ii. 381. Audubon, Orn. Biog. 



1839, V. p. 110, pi. 408 ; id. Syn. 1839, 236 ; id. Birds Amer. 1842, v. 277, 



pi. 336. Giraud, Birds L. I. 1844, 239. Newberry, P. R. R. Sarv. 1857, 



vi. 100. 

 Ereunetes semipalmatas, Cabanis, Schomburgk's Reise, iii. 758, fide Gen. Rep. 



Bonaparte, Compt. Rend. 1856, fide Gen. Rep. Cabanis, Journ. 1856, 



419, fide Gen. Rep. 

 Tringa (Hemipalama) semipalmata, Bonaparte, Obs. Wils. 1825, num. 212 ; ii. 



Speech. Comp. 1827, 62. 

 Ti-inga (Heteropoda) semipalmata, Nuttall, Man. Orn. 1834, ii. 136. 

 Hemipalama semipalmata, Lambeye, Av. Cubae, 1850, 96. 

 Hemipalama minor, Lambeye, Av. Cubae, 1850, 97. 

 Heteropoda semipalmata, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 1838, 49. Dekay, N. Y. 



Fauna, 1844, 236, pi. 86, fig. 19-5. Gray, Genera, 1849, iii. 580. 

 ? Hetropola mauri, Bonaparte, Comp. List, 183S, 49. 

 Ereunetes mauri, Cabanis, Journ. 1856, 419, fide Gen. Rep. 

 Tringa brevirostris, Spix, Aves Bras- 1825, ii. 76, fide Gen. Rep. 

 ? Pelidna Brissoni, Lesson, Man. d'Ornith. 1828, ii. 277, [T. pusillum, Linn. 



citat.] 

 Ereunetes pusillus, Cassin, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. 1860, xiii. 195. Coues, Monog. 



Tring. N. A., in Pr. A. N. S. Ph. July, 1861, 177. 

 The statements made under the head of Actodromas minutiUa, tending to 

 demonstrate that Tringa pusilla of Linnaeus is not the bird given under that 

 name by Wilson, also prove that the name really belongs to the species now 

 under consideration. As there stated, pusilla was applied by Linnaeus in 1766 

 to the bird figured and described by Brisson, (Ornith. 1760, v. p. 222, pi. xxv. 

 fig. 2,) under the appellation of " La petite Alouette-de-mer de S. Dominque," 

 Tringa cinclus Dominicensis minor. The description applies well, and the figure 

 plainly shows the webbing of the toes, a feature which exclusively character- 

 izes this species among the smaller Sandpipers. There being no reasonable 

 doubt, therefore, of what pusilla really refers to, it must, according to the laws 

 of nomenclature, take precedence over both petrificatus of lUiger, and semipal- 

 matu^ of Wilson. Cassin restores the name in the Proceedings of the Acade- 

 my of Natural Sciences, above cited, there calling the bird Ereunetes pusillus, 

 though in the General Report he retains the specific name of petrificatus be- 

 stowed by lUiger in 1811. 



The webbed feet of this bird were very early made the grounds for generic 

 distinction from Tringa, to which they would fully entitle it, even were no 

 other characters involved. But though several genera have been proposed 

 for it, fortunately there is not the slightest difficultv as to the proper one to 

 be employed. Heteropoda of Nuttall, (1834,) and Hemipalama of Bonaparte, 

 (1825,) must both yield to Ereunetes petrificatus, which, according to the Gene- 



1861.J 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ral Report, has been proved to be the T.semipalmata of Wilson, by actual ex- 

 amination of the type specimen. This being the case, Ereunetes must be used 

 in the present connection, though for the reasons given above, petrijicatiis 

 cannot be retained. The cause of Nuttall's proposing for the bird a new geiius 

 was probably the fact that Bonaparte in 1828 employed his Hemipalama in 

 connection with a very different bird — the Alicropalama himantopus of Baird — 

 with which it has scarcely a generic character in common except the webbed 

 toes. As a reference to the article will show, the name was proposed for, and 

 first used in connection with, the T. semipalmata Wils. 



I have thought it well to present the synonomy of this species, since, as will 

 be seen, it has received a great variety of names. According to the General 

 Report, the Heteropoda Mauri of Bonaparte, or the Ereunetes Mauri of Cabanis, 

 is merely a large race of the present bird ; while the remarkable variations in 

 the length of the bill, to which the species is subject, have given rise to the 

 Hemipalama minor of Gundlach, and the Tringa brevirostris of Spix. Pelidna 

 Brissoni of Lesson is probably this species, since he refers to Tringa pusilla of 

 Linnaeus. 



No individuals of this species were observed until the latter part of July, 

 but soon after that date they became excessively abundant, and continund so 

 during the month of August. When on muddy flats I generally found them 

 associated with the Ring Plovers and Bonaparte's Sandpipers ; but when on 

 open sandy beaches they keep mostly to themselves, sometimes in flocks of 

 great extent, the other species with which they principally mix not generally 

 frequenting such situations. When in large flocks dozens may be killed at a 

 shot ; and as, after many wheelings, they often alight again on the same spot, 

 they afford a second opportunity to the gunner. When wounded, they swim 

 with considerable ease, aided by their semipalmated feet ; but they are not 

 capable of diving to any extent. These birds, possessing very few distinctive 

 traits of habit among the smaller Sandpipers, are yet remarkable in one par- 

 ticular — the great facility with which they may be decoyed by imitating their 

 call — a low mellow whistle. When skilfully executed, I have seen them ap- 

 proach within a few feet of the person seated on a rock in full view, though a 

 moment after, on discovering their mistake, they would immediately take 

 flight. , They are also noted for the excessively fat condition in which they 

 are always found in the fall, exceeding that of almost any other bird of their 

 family. In this state they are delicious eating, being tender, juicy and deli- 

 cately flavored, but on account of their diminutive size they are not muph 

 sought after. This species is the '* Pee-p '' par excellence, though the Acto- 

 dromas Bonapartei and minutilla are also known by the same name. 



Gambetta melanoleuca (Gm.) Bon. — Tell-tale. "Yellow-legs." 



Totanus vociferiis, Aud., Birds Amer. v. 316, pi. 345. 

 Gambetta melanoleuca, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 731. 



This large tatler, so well known and so universally disliked by all gunners 

 on account of its watchful and noisy nature, is a very common bird along the 

 coast of Labrador during the summer and early fall. During the fore part of 

 the summer I found them very wary and diflScult of approach. They would 

 stand motionless and in silence, regarding me with watchful attention until I 

 was nearly within shooting distance, when, at a single note from one of the 

 flock, all would instantly take flight, emitting their loud and clear whistling, 

 as if rejoicing at my discomfiture. By the middle of August, however, they 

 seemed to have laid aside their watchfulness, and numbers were procured 

 without difficulty. Though found in all situations near the water, their favo- 

 rite localities seemed to be the muddy flats laid bare by the tide, the salt 

 marshes adjoining them, and the pools which dot these marshes. They are 

 seldom found in good condition for the table, being generally very lean. They 

 are known altogether as " Yellow-legs." 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Teingoides MAcpLAEiirs (L.) Gray. — Spotted Sandpiper. "Teeter-tail." 



Totanus macularius, And., Birds Amer. v. 303, pi. 342. 

 Tringoides macularius, Cassin, Geu. Rep. 735. 



The Spotted Sandpiper forms almost the only exception to the general rules, 

 that the species of this family retire to very high latitudes to rear their young, 

 and on their return south in the fall associate in flocks of greater or less ex- 

 tent. It has a breeding range almost vinparalleled among the Sandpipers, 

 rearing its young from as far south, at least, as Washington, D. C, to the 

 confines of the Arctic circle. Nor is it confined to the immediate vicinity of the 

 sea ; it abounds along the rivers and creeks of the interior, and shows a marked 

 predilection for the vicinity of man's abode. The nest is usually placed in an 

 orchard or meadow, often in a ploughed field, and is a mere depression in the 

 ground, lined with a few dried grasses, or a little eel-grass, (Zostera.) The eggs, 

 as usual in this family, are four in number, large for the size of the bird, pointed, 

 and of a light cream color, every where blotched and spotted with dark brown 

 and black. A nest found on the 4th of July, on one of the barren islands oflf the 

 coast of Labrador, contained eggs in which the embryos had scarcely begun to 

 be developed, while on the ITth of June, eggs found at Portsmouth, N. H., 

 were on the point of hatching. 



The Spotted SandjMper is at all times a solitary species ; it is rare to see 

 more than two or three together. Its note is a low mellow '' weet," often re- 

 peated. When wounded, even if very severely, it dives with great facility and 

 quickness, and sometimes swims a considerable distance under water. Its 

 most peculiar trait, however, is the habit it possesses of always, on alighting, 

 and frequently at other times, balancing its tail in a remarkable manner, just 

 as the Solitai-y Sandpiper, Rhyacophilus solitarius, does its head. This pecu- 

 liarity has gained for it the common appellation of " Teeter- tail." 



Tryngites rufescens (Vieill.) Cab. — Buflf-breasted Sandpiper. 



Tr'inga rufescens, And., Birds Amer. v. 264, pi. 331. 

 Trijngites rufescens, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 739. 



A single specimen of this rather uncommon Sandpiper was shot on the 20th 

 of August by one of the sailors, but was unfortunately too much mutilated to 

 be preserved. I learned nothing of its habits ; it is probably a rare bird in 

 Labrador. 



NuMENius (NuMENius) LOXGiEOSTRis Wils. — Long-billcd Curlew. "Sickle-bill." 



Numenius longirostris, And., Birds Amer. vi. 35, pi. 355. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 

 743. 

 Although I did not meet with this species myself, I was assured by all the 

 hunters that it is occasionally seen among the vast flocks of the N. borealis 

 that appear in the autumn. It is, however, rare in Labrador. It is known 

 by the very suggestive name of " Sickle-bill." 



Numenius (Phaeopus) Hudsonicus Lath. — Hudsonian Curlew. " Jack Curlew." 



Numenius Hudsonicus, Aud., Birds Amer., v. 42, pi. 356. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 

 744. 

 Of the Hudsonian Curlew I saw but few individuals, and these were so shy 

 that it was with difficulty that they were procured. They were most nume- 

 rous at the time that the iV. borealis were about taking their departure ; and 

 in their general manners, food, &c., appeared to be very similar to the latter. 

 Their voice, however, is much louder and rougher. They are known to the 

 natives as "Jack Curlews." 



1861.] 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



N0MENIUS (Phaeopus) borealis (Forst.) Lath. — Esquimaux Curlew. "The 



Clew." 

 Numenius borealis, Aud. Birds Amer., vi. 45, pi. 357. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 744. 



From the time of my first arrival in the country until the second week in 

 August, the stereotyped reply of the inliabitants to my inquiries concerning 

 game wa«, "There is nothing to shoot yet, sir ; the Clew.-: have not yet ar- 

 rived ; but when they come you will liave fine sport." All were agreed as to 

 the abundance of the birds, the facility with which they could be obtained, 

 the sport of killing them, and their delicacy on the table. Naturally enough, 

 when disappointed in procuring other birds, our tlioughts turned to the Cur- 

 lews, and we endeavored to console ourselves by shooting them in anticipa- 

 tion. It was not, however, until the 16th of August, when in the romantic 

 harbor of " Indian Tickle," that we obtained the first glimpse of tlie Curlews. 

 Five days later, at Henley Harbor, our sport commenced ; the Curlews were 

 there in immense numbers, and for nearly two weeks we all enjoyed such 

 sport as almost made us forget our disappointments and hardships on the 

 dreary Labrador coast. The Curlews then disappeared as suddenly as they 

 had arrived ; not, however, until I had had ample opportunities of studying 

 their habits, and had procured a sufficient number of specimens. 



The Esquimaux Curlew arrived on the Labrador coast from its more northern 

 breeding grounds in immense numbers, flying very swiftly in flocks of great ex- 

 tent. These immediately broke up into smaller companies, and proceeded at 

 once in search of food. They remained but a very short time. As Audubon most 

 correctly says, " I was not long in discovering that their stay on this coast 

 was occasioned solely by the density of the mists, and the heavy gales that 

 already gave intimation of the approaching close of the summer ; for whenever 

 the weather cleared up a little, thousands of them set off and steered in a 

 straight course across the broad Gulf of St. Lawrence. On the contrary', when 

 the wind was high and the fogs thick, they flew swiftly and low over the rocky 

 surface of the country, as if bewildered. Wherever there was a spot that 

 seemed likely to aflford a supply of food, there the Curlews abounded and were 

 easily approached." His observations, however, diflfer much from mine, iu 

 reference to the time of the arrival and departure of the birds. He states that 

 they made their first appearance on the 29th of July, and had all left by the 

 12th of August ; whereas, I saw none until about that latter date, and none 

 were to be seen on the first of September. For two or three days before their 

 final departure, we had noticed them all moving directly southward, flying 

 very high in the air'in loose straggling flocks, with a broad extended front. 



The Curlews associate in flocks of every size, from three to as many thou- 

 sands, but they generally fly in so loose and straggling a manner, that it is 

 rare to kill more than half a dozen at a shot. When they wheel, however, in 

 any of their many beautiful evolutions, they close together in a more compact 

 body, and ofi"er a more favorable opportunity for the gunner. Their flight is 

 firm, direct, very swift, when necessary much protracted, and is performed 

 with rapid regular beats. They never sail except when about to alight ; then 

 the wings are much incurved downwards, in the manner of most Waders. As 

 their feet touch the ground their long, pointed wings are raised over the back 

 until the tips almost touch, and then deliberately folded, much in the manner 

 of the Solitary Sandpiper, Rhyacophilus solitarius. Their note is an oft-re- 

 peated, soft, mellow, tbough clear whistle, which may be easily imitated. By 

 this means they can readily be decoyed within shot, if the imitation is good 

 aud the gunner is careful to keep concealed. The smaller the flock, the more 

 easily are they allured, and a single individual rarely fails to turn his course 

 toward the spot from whence the sound proceeds. When in very extensive 

 flocks they have a note which, when uttered by the whole number, I can 

 compare to nothing but the chattering of a flock of blackbirds. When 

 wounded and taken in hand, they emit a very loud harsh scream, like that 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



of a common lien under similar circumstances, which cry they also utter when 

 pursued. 



Their food consists almost entirely of the Crow-berry, Empctrum nigrum,* 

 which grows on all the hill-sides in astonishing profusion. It is also called the 

 "Bear-berry" and "Curlew-berry." It is a small berry, of a deep purple 

 color, almost black, growing upon a procumbent, running kind of heath, the 

 foliage of which has a peculiar moss-like appearance. This is their principal 

 and favorite food ; and the whole intestine, the vent, legs, bill, throat, and 

 even the plumage are more or less stained with the deep purple juice. They 

 are also very fond of a species of small snail, that adheres to the rocks in im- 

 mense quantities, to procure which they frequent the land-washes at low tide. 

 Food being so abundant, and so easily obtained, they become excessively fat. 

 In tliis condition they are most delicious eating, being tender, juicy, and 

 finely flavored ; but as might be expected, they prove a very difficult job for 

 the taxidermist. 



Although the Curlews were in such vast numbers, I did not find them so tame 

 as might be expected, and as I had been led to suppose by previous represent- 

 ations. I was never able to walk openly within shooting distance of a flock, 

 though I was told it was often done. The most successful method of obtaining 

 them is to take such a position as they will probably fly over in passing from 

 one feeding ground to another ; they may then be shot with ease, as they 

 rarely fly high at such times. The pertinacity with which they cling to cer- 

 tain feeding grounds, even when much molested, I saw strikingly illustrated 

 on one occasion. The tide was rising and about to flood a muddy flat of per- 

 haps an acre in extent, where their favorite snails were in great quantities. 

 Although six or eight gunners were stationed on the spot, and kept up a con- 

 tinual round of firing upon the poor birds, they continued to fly distractedly 

 about over our heads, notwithstanding the numbers that every moment fell. 

 They seemed in terror lest they should lose their accustomed fare of snails that 

 day. On another occasion, when the birds had been so harassed for several 

 hours as to deprive them of all opportunity of feeding, great numbers of them 

 retired to a very small island, or rather a large pile of rocks, a few hundred 

 yards from the shore, covered with sea weed, and, of course, with snails. 

 Flock after flock alighted on it, till it was completely covered with the birds, 

 which there, in perfect safety, obtained their morning meal. 



I was told that the Curlews were never seen in Labrador, except for the 

 short period in the autumn. Such, however, I do not think to be the case, 

 particulary as Audubon, upon good authority, asserts to the contrary. It is 

 probable that the celerity and silence with which it passes northward during 

 the spring migration, causes it to be partially overlooked. Its migrations are 

 very extensive, but performed so quickly and silently that it is rarely seen south 

 of the New England States. It is found in Texas ; thoiigh as far as my know-, 

 ledge extends, it does not breed much south of Hudson's Bay. In Labrador 

 it is known by its proper name, which, however, is invariably shortened into 

 "Clew." Further south it is called the "Dough-bird;" but this name is 

 also applied to other birds. In a great number of specimens I found consider- 

 able ditferences in size, in the color of the under parts, which varies from 

 creamy white to deep bufi", and in the purity and extent of the white patch on 

 the throat. These ditferences, however, were not indicative of sex, nor even of 

 age, so far as I could ascertain. 



*" Empetrum, Tourn. Flowers polygamous, scattered and solitary in the axils of the 

 leaves, (inconspicuous) scaly bracted. Calyx of 3 spreading and somewhat petal-like 

 sepals. Stamens, 8. Style very short ; stigma 6-9 rayed. Fruit, a berry like drupe, 

 with 6-9 seed-hke nutlets, each contaming an erect anatropous seed. E. nigrum, L. 

 Procumbent and trailing ; leaves linear oblong, scattered ; fruit black." — (Gray's Manual 

 of Botany, College Ed. p, 393.) 



1861] 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Bernicla Canadensis (L.) Boie. — Canada Goose. 

 Anser Canadensis, Aud., Birds Amer. vi. 178, pi. 376. 

 Bernicla Canadensis, Baird, Gen. Rep. 764. 



No Wild Geese were observed until the second week in August, when for 

 several days we saw them fly southward in small flocks, keeping at a great 

 height in the air, and always preserving a wedge-shape form. No specimens 

 were procured. 



Anas Boschas Linn. — Mallard. 

 Anas Boschas, Aud., Birds Amer. vi. 236, pi. 385. 

 Baird, Gen. Rep. 774. 

 Audubon, in his account of this Duck, says ** On the western coast of Lab- 

 rador, none of the inhabitants we conversed with had ever seen the Mallard, 

 and in Newfoundland the people were equally unacquainted with it, the spe- 

 cies being in those countries replaced by the Black Duck, Anas fusca." 

 Although it is a rare species in Labrador, I ascertained its existence there 

 from a very fine pair offered for sale by one of the natives. In the interior of 

 the continent it goes as far north at least as Great Slave Lake, where it breeds 

 in considerable numbers. 



Anas obscuka Gm. — Dusky Duck. " Black Duck." 

 Anas ohscura, Aud., Birds Amer. vi. 244, pi. 386. 

 Baird, Gen. Rep. 775. 

 The Dusky Duck is by far the most abundant of the Anatincc along the 

 coast of Labrador, where it breeds very plentifully. Though some times seen 

 along the rocky and barren islands that skirt the coast, it at all times shows 

 a decided preference for tlie ponds and streams of the interior. When the 

 females are incubating, and engaged in rearing their young, the males desert 

 them, and retire to secluded situations to renew their feathers. Some which 

 I shot on the 23d of July were at that time in deep moult, and entirely un- 

 able Ito fly, though they made their way over the water with astonishing 

 celerity. I saw young nearly half grown on the 1st of August ; they were at 

 that time still led about by the i)arent, and were unable to fly. It is a re- 

 markably shy and watchful bird, so much so that it is only with great diffi- 

 culty it can be procured. It is much esteemed as an article of food, and is 

 known to the inhabitants as the " Black Duck." 



Nettion Cakolinensis (Gm.) Baird. — Green- winged Teal. 

 Anas Carolinensis, Aud., Birds Amer, vi. 281, pi. 392. 

 Nettion Carolinensis, Baird, Gen. Rep. 777. 



Though the Green-winged Teal is a rare bird along the coast of Labrador, 

 yet Audubon is incorrect in saying that it is never found there. A specimen 

 which I saw in a collection of birds at Rigolet, proves its existence in that 

 country. It is abundant in the interior, breeding in the region around Great 

 Slave Lake. 



Nettion crecca (L.) Kaup. — English Teal. 

 Nettion crecca, Baird, Gen. Rep. 778. 



I was so fortunate as to procure a well characterized specimen of this Teal, 

 which, though a common bird in Europe, is only known in North America as 

 a rare straggler from that country. It is closely allied to the Green-winged 

 Teal, but is nevertheless perfectly distinct, the differences being readily appre- 

 ciable even without comparison. These consist in the entire absence of the 

 white crescent before the wing ; the more conspicuously colored elongated 

 scapulars, which are deep black and pure creamy white ; and the remarkable 

 distinctness of the white lines on the head. I learned nothing of its habits. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Camptol^emus Labradorius (Gm.) Gray. — Labrador Duck. "Fool-bird." 

 Fuligula Lahradora, Aud., Birds Amer. vi. 329, pi. 400. 

 Camptolfemus Labradorius, Baird, Gen. Rep. 803. 



I did not succeed in procuring or even meeting with this rare and very re- 

 markable Duck. I was informed that, though it was very r&rely seen in the 

 isummer, it is not an uncommon bird in Labrador during the fall ; it is known 

 by the peculiar appellation of "Fool-bird," a name given on account of its 

 remarkably unsuspicious nature, which renders it easy to approach. The 

 name, however, can scarcely be a general one. Further than this I learned 

 nothing respecting it. 



Pelionetta perspicillata (L.) Kaup. — Surf Duck. "Bottle-nosed Coot." 

 Fidipida perspicillata, And., Birds Amer. vi. 337, pi. 402. 

 Pelionetta perspicillata, Baird, Gen. Rep. 806. 



The Surf Duck is an abundant bird along the coast of Labrador, where a 

 good many breed, though perhaps a greater number go still further north. 

 They are seen in flocks of considerable extent, especially during the renewal 

 of their feathers, at which time they collect in great numbers along the shores 

 of the bays and inlets. On the 3d of August, while sailing up Esquimaux Bay, 

 the shore for nearly a mile was lined with these Ducks, aud the succeeding 

 species. They were all in deep moult, and most of them unable to fly, and 

 yet were so wary and vigilant, that few were obtained, for they dived at the 

 flash of the gun with such celerity as to escape the shot. They are tough 

 birds, and remarkably tenacious of life, and require a heavy charge to kill 

 them. Those procured were excessively fat, but their flesh was rank and 

 oily. They are known as "Bottle-nosed Coots," a name given in allusion to 

 the very peculiar shape and color of the bill. 



Melanetta VELVETiNA Baird. — Velvet Duck. " White-winged Coot ;" "Brass- 

 winged Diver." 

 Fidtgidu fusca, Aud., Birds Amer. vi. 332, pi. 401. 

 Melanetta velvetina, Baird, Gen. Rep. 805. 



This species is nearly if not quite as abundant as th« preceding, with which 

 it is often found associating. It appears to possess much the same habits. It 

 is a very shy and vigilant species, and possesses powers of diving surpassed 

 by few birds. It is known by the names of the "White-winged Coot" and 

 " Brass-winged Diver," the former being the most usual appellation. 



Though I did not meet with the American Scoter, Oidemia Americana, I was 

 assured that it breeds in the neighborhood of Esquimaux Bay. It is known as 

 the "Black Coot" and "Butter-billed Coot." The three species of Oidemiea 

 are <all called " Coots ;" a nomenclature that puzzled me not a little, until I 

 ascertained to what birds the names referred. 



SoMATERiA MOLLissiMA (Linn.) Leach. — Eider Duck. "Sea-duck." 

 Fuligula mollissima, And., Birds Amer. vi. 349. pi. 405. 

 Somateria mollissima, Baird, Gen. Rep. 809. 



The Eider Duck, so widely and justly celebrated for the valuable down 

 which it furnishes in such quantity as to make it a profitable article of com- 

 merce, is the most abundant Duck throughout the extent of Labrador, which 

 is with it a favorite breeding place. For although many breed in very high 

 latitudes on both sides of the Atlantic, yet Labrador, from the peculiar nature 

 of its coast, seems a country specially adapted to its wants. It also finds 

 there a safer place of retreat while engaged in the duties of incubation, since, 

 at least as far as I can ascertain, its down is not so regularly sought for as it is 

 in some other countries. Wherever found at all it is an abundant species ; but 

 on the American coast it is seldom or never seen south of Long Island or the 

 New Jersey Capes. 



1861.] 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The Eiders choose for their breeding places the low, rocky, barren islands 

 that stud the Labrador coast, generally giving the preference to those which 

 are more or less covered with grass and low scrubby juniper. The nests are 

 always placed on the ground ; often a tuft of grass is selected, or the nest is 

 hidden beneath the spreading boughs of juniper. The grassy crevices between 

 fiat strata, and tlie soft beds of moss at the foot of over-shadowing rocks are 

 also favorite situations. The nest is of rather bulky construction, formed of 

 moss, lichens, and dried grasses and seaweed, loosely matted together, and 

 the whole fabric sunk as deeply as possible into the ground. The down is sel- 

 dom, I think, added until the full complement of eggs is made up. These 

 rarely exceed Ave or six in number, and occasionally are but four. They 

 vary much in size and shape, and also considerably in color. They average 

 about three inches in length by two in breadth, and the shape varies from an 

 almost perfect ellipse to a- regular ovoid or ovate. The ground color is a dull 

 olive green, frequently with a bluish, and sometimes with a creamy tinge ; 

 and is often discolored with darker patclies, like stains. The shell is smooth 

 and polished. The eggs are excellent eating, as I know to my cost ; for hav- 

 ing on one occasion collected a large basketful, all those that were fresh and 

 could be neatly blown, were appropriated by the sailors during a temporary 

 absence. 



While the female is incubating she permits a very near approach before she 

 forsakes her nest ; it is not uncommon to walk up to within a few feet of the 

 sitting bird ; she then flaps off in a hurried frightened manner, but always 

 in silence, and makes directly for the nearest water. If a gun be fired on a 

 small island, where many birds are sitting, all immediately leave their nests 

 and collect in a body at some distance on the water. There they wash and 

 plume themselves until the intruder withdraws, when they soon resume their 

 duties. 



There seems to be considerable difference in the time of laying the eggs. On 

 the 4th of July, when I made most of my observations on these birds, I found 

 nests in which the full complement had not yet been laid ; eggs with chicks in 

 all stages of developement ; and broods of yoiing were seen, led about on the 

 water by the parent. As soon as the ducklings are hatched, they are led 

 directly to the water, where they swim with perfect ease and dive with facility. 

 The mother keeps them close about her, anxiously watching for every appear- 

 ance of danger that might befal them, and ready at any moment to give 

 battle to any hungry gull that might attack them. Under these circumstances 

 only did we ever succeed in openly rowing within shot of an Eider, when 

 anxiety for the safety of her brood made her forget her own danger. On such 

 occasions, the mother, keeping them close together, would urge them forward 

 until the danger became too imminent, when at a single note, the young 

 would scatter and dive with astonishing celerity, and the mother dive or fly 

 off as necessity required. The ducklings at this time are covered with long 

 hair-like down, very fine, of a dusky brown above and light silvery grey 

 below. 



As soon as the females begin to deposit their eggs, they are deserted by the 

 males, and from this time the whole care of incubation and rearing the young 

 devolves upon the former. The males, at this season, assemble in large flocks, 

 and retire to the outer and most secluded islands during the time of the re- 

 newal of their feathers. They are excessively shy and difiicult to approach. 

 The females, even those which are sterile, never, I believe, associate with the 

 males, but keep in flocks by themselves. 



There is a great difference in the colors of the plumage of the females at dif- 

 ferent ages, varying from very light ochreous to a uniform dark chestnut brown, 

 much as represented in Audubon's plate. They are universally known as 

 " Sea-ducks,'' the males being always distinguished as "Sea-drakes." I sel- 

 dom or never heard the name of Eider applied to either sex by the natives. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



I saw no individuals of the King Eider, Somateria spectabilis, during my stay > 

 but was informed that in the fall they are not unfrequently met with. 



Mergus serrator Linn, — Red-breasted Merganser. " Shell-drake." 

 Mergus serrator, Aud., Birds Amer. vi. 395; pi. 412. Baird, Gen. Rep. 814. 



The Red-breasted Merganser breeds very abundantly along the Labrador 

 coast, while the Buff- breasted, M. Americanus, is seldom or never seen. The 

 females place their nests on much the same islands as the Eiders choose, but 

 conceal them more carefully in the tall grass, or among thick scrubby juniper. 

 The nest is rather neatly and compactly formed of mosses, lichens, and dried 

 sea weeds, and warmly lined with down plucked from the breast of the mother, 

 with which the eggs are nearly covered. The full number of these is nine or 

 ten; incubation does not take place until late in the season, as I have found 

 them nearly fresh on the 4th of July. They are regularly oval or ellipsoidal in 

 form, and of a uniform light buff color. When the bird is surprised on the 

 nest, she steals off as quietly as possible, and retires to a considerable distance. 

 While the females are engaged in incubation, and in rearing their young, the 

 males collect in small flocks and keep entirely by themselves, and are exces- 

 sively shy and vigilant. I found young birds, apparently about a week old, on 

 the 1st of August. Although so young, they were perfectly at home on the 

 water, swimming with ease and grace, and diving with such celerity that it 

 was with difficulty that three or four were procured. 



Graculos DiLOPHUS (Sw.) Gray. Double-crested Cormorant. "Shag." 



Phalacrocorax dilophus, And., Birds Amer. vi. 423 : pi. 416. 

 Graculus dilophus, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 877. 



As I had no opportunity of visiting any of the colonies of Cormorants, either 

 in Labrador or Newfoundland, I can say nothing concerning their habits. I 

 was informed that there was a " Shng settlement" (either of this species or the 

 G. carbo,) near Sloop Harbor, a short distance south of Little Mecattina. A 

 fine specimen of this species was presented to me by Capt. Dodge. Both this 

 and the G. carbo are universally known as " Shags." 



SuLA BAssANA (L.) Briss. — Gannet. 

 Sula bassa7ia, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 44; pi. 425. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 871. 



On the first of July our proximity to the celebrated Gannet Rocks was clearly 

 indicated by the numbers of these birds seen flying in every direction, engaged 

 in seeking for food, which consists principally or wholly of fish. When sati- 

 ated with food they are unable to fly for some time. We passed by one in this 

 condition ; it flapped heavily along on the surface of the water, trying in vain 

 to rise, j'et managing, with aid of wings and feet to proceed with considerable 

 speed. Again, on the 11th of September, on our return we saw many Gannets ; 

 but though on both these occasions we passed within fifty miles or less of the 

 rocks, I was denied the pleasure of observing the birds at their great breeding 

 place, and can only speak of their flight and mode of fishing. They fly with 

 firm, powerful beats, alternately sailing and flapping for about equal distances, 

 and their flight is strong and capable of being greatly protracted. When 

 searching for food, they fly slowly along at the height of a few yards above the 

 surface, reconnoitering the water beneath. When a fish is espied, the bird 

 poises an instant in the air and then darts suddenly down, the weight of its 

 ponderous body giving it an impetus which sends it far under water, and raises 

 the spray in a cloud around it. Taking advantage of this habit, Gannets are 

 sometimes captured by fastening a fish to a soft plank, and sinking it just be- 

 low the surface. The velocity with which the bird descends forces its bill 

 through the wood, and it is thus made a prisoner. 



1861.] 17 




242 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Procellaiba (Fulmarus) glaciahs Linn. — Fulmar Petrel. 



Procellaria glacialis, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 204 ; pi. 455. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 

 825. 

 On the 19th of August, while at sea off Belle-Isle, many Fulmars were seen, 

 mostly resting on the water in companies of about a dozen. They generally 

 remained quiet until we approached within sixty or seventy yards, when they 

 would all take flight. In rising from the water the wings are lifted high over 

 the back, the feet drawn under the belly, and with one vigorous spring and a 

 flap at the same instant, the bird launches itself into the air. Its flight is 

 extremely firm, vigorous and protracted, performed with slow measured beats. 

 One individual was overtaken by our vessel, so loaded with food as to be un- 

 able to fly ; it passed close by the side swimming as fast as possible, near 

 enough to enable me to clearly discern the peculiar character of the nostrils 

 which distinguishes this family of birds. 



Thalassidroma (Oceanites) Wilsoni Bon. — Wilson's Stormy Petrel. '• Mother 

 Carey's Chickens." 



Thalassidroma Wilsoni, And., Birds Amer. vii, 223 ; pi. 460. Lawrence, Gen. 

 Rep. 831. 

 Many of these little oceanic wanderers, and probably also the Thai. Leachii, 

 and pehiffica, were seen every day during our voyage, until we entered the Gulf 

 of St. Lawrence. After that few were observed, and none at all seen off the 

 coast of Labrador. They probably breed along the coast of Nova Scotia. They 

 are very familiar unsuspicious little birds, fluttering hither and thither close 

 around a vessel to pick up the bits of floating garbage which forms their favor- 

 ite food, and never showing the slightest fear. When about to pick up any 

 floating substance, they raise the wings high over the back, flapping them 

 lightly, and stretch the feet downwards to their fullest extent; the moment 

 they touch the water, the morsel is secured, and the bird is off again in an in- 

 stant. This attitude is represented to the life in Audubon's beautiful plate of 

 the Least Petrel. Their flight is light, graceful and buoyant in the extreme, 

 and their power of remaining long at a time on the wing is unsurpassed. 

 Three or four are generally seen at a time, though when pressed by hunger 

 they sometimes collect in great numbers about a vessel, eagerly searching for 

 food. On one occasion, about dusk in the evening, we came upon a company 

 of about thirty of them, collected togethpr in a compact flock, sporting high in 

 the air with most graceful movements, like so many swallows over a pond. 

 What had attracted them I could not ascertain. These birds may be caught by 

 means of a hnok baited with a morsel of pork; but such is the antipathy of 

 sailors to destroying them, that they are seldom molested. I am informed by 

 my friend. Dr. H. Bryant, of Boston, that he bus caught them by allowing a 

 long filament of silk to float in the air behind a sailing vessel, with which the 

 wings of the birds become entangled as they flutter against it. All three spe- 

 cies of Petrels are universally known as " Mother Carey's Chickens." 



Pdffinds (Ardenna) major (Faber) Bon. — Greater Shearwater. " Hagden." 



Puffinus cinereus, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 212, pi. 456. 

 Puffimis {Ardema) major, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 833. 



Many Shearwaters were seen at different limes during the voyage, generally 

 singly, and always at a distance from land. They appeared to be shy and un- 

 familiar birds, none approaching near enough to enable me positively to deter- 

 mine the species, whether P. major or anglorum, ihongh from their size I should 

 suppose the farmer. On the 19th of August many were seen resting on the 

 water in companies, in the manner of the Fulmars, Procfillariafflacialis, to which 

 they are nearly allied, both in form and general manners. Both species are 

 known to sailors and fishermen as " Hagdens." 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Puffinus(Nectris) FiTLiGiNosus Stfickl. — Sooty Shearwater. "Black Hagden." 



Puffinis (N'ectris) fulit/inosws, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 834. 



On the 19th of August a few individuals of this easily recognizable species 

 were seen in company with the P. major, to which in their habits they are 

 probably very similar. They are known to the sailors as "Black Hagdens." 



Stkrcorarids pomarinds Teram. — Pomarine Jager. " Boatswain." 



Lestris pomarinus, And., Birds Amer. vii. 186, pi. 451. 

 Stercorarius pomarinus, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 838. 



But very few individuals of thig species were observed. I shot one which 

 was hovering over the stern of the vessel, attracted by some floating garbage. 

 I was surprised to see that it picked up floating substances more in the manner 

 of a Petrel than of a Gull — descending slowly with the feet stretched down- 

 wards, and wings elevated, and scarcely touching the water. This Jager is 

 known to sailors and fishermen as the " Boatswain," a name which is also ap- 

 plied to the S. parasiticus. 



Stkrcorarius parasiticus Temm. — Arctic Jager. " Boatswain." 



Lestris Richardsonii, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 190, pi. 452. 

 Stercorarius parasiticus, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 839. 



I saw but a single individual of , this species that I could identify with any 

 certainty. It may be recognized in flight by the peculiar shape of its tail, in- 

 termediate between th?it of S. pomarinus and cepphus in the length of the middle 

 tail feathers, which project some three inches beyond the others. The name of 

 "Boatswain " is applied to this species as well as to the preceding. All the 

 Jagers have received from the fishermen two very appropriate epithets, in allu- 

 sion to the peculiar nature of their food, which, as is well known, consists 

 principally of the partially digested fish which they force the Gulls to disgorge. 



Stercorarius cepphus (Briinn.) — Buffon's Skua. " Marlingspike." 



Lestris parasitica, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 192, pi. 453. 

 Stercorarius ceppkus, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 840. 



Of this most beautiful and graceful of the Jagers I saw but very few indi- 

 viduals, and those only while at sea. It is easily recognized by the long slen- 

 der feathers, which project six or eight inches beyond the others. From this 

 peculiarity it has received the name of " Marlingspike " from the sailors. Its 

 flight is extremely powerful, firm, even, and performed with regular beats, 

 which propel it with great velocity. It never, I believe, sails. I had not the 

 pleasure of witnessing its attacks upon the Gulls, in which it is said to display 

 courage and intrepidity beyond all other species of the genus. 



Larus GLAUCU8 Briinn. — Glaucous Gull. " Ice-gull." 



Larus glaums, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 170, pi. 449. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 842. 

 I saw but very few " Burgomasters " that I could positively identify, on the 

 coast of Labrador, where they appear to be rather rare. They are probably 

 naore abundant in higher latitudes. I was informed by an intelligent hunter, 

 who seemed to be acquainted with all the large birds, that there was a " colony " 

 of the " Ice-gulls," as they are called, on some small islands known as the 

 Herrings, about twenty-five miles off the coast, just opposite the entrance of 

 Esquimaux Bay. Unfortunately, however, I had no opportunity of verifying the 

 statement, or of observing the habits of this magnificent Gull during the breed- 

 ing season. 



1861.] 




244 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Larus marinus Linn.— Great Black-backed Gull. " Saddle-backed Gull." 



"Saddler." 

 Larus marinus^ And., Birds Araer. vii. 172, pi. 450. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 844. 



The Great Black-backed Gull, which, with the single exception of the Glau- 

 cous Gull, is the most powerful of its tribe, is a very abundant bird during the 

 summer months along the whole co.ast of Labrador. Indeed, this is almost the 

 only locality on this side of the Atlantic where its habits during the breeding 

 season can be successfully studied ; the peculiar character of the coast renders 

 it well adapted to the wants of the birds, and it is therefore their favorite 

 breeding place. I was informed that it arrives there about the latter part of 

 May, but with reference to its time of departure, I cannot reconcile my observa- 

 tions with those of Audubon. He states that " by the 12ih of that month 

 (August) they had all left Labrador ;" whereas, I found them still numerous 

 on the first of September, and I think I never saw so many of both old and 

 young as I did at Henley Harbor on the 30th of August. At what time they 

 really do depart, or whether any remain all winter, I am unable to say. I can 

 account for this and many other discrepancies between our observations with 

 respect to date, only by supposing the season in which Audubon visited the 

 country was a very early one, or that last summer was remarkably delayed. 



This species generally chooses for the situation of its nest one of the many 

 small islands, some of them mere rocks jutting out of the water, which every- 

 where stud the Labrador coast; and contrary to the usual habit of Gulls, it 

 does not congregate in large numbers upon a single island, not more than two 

 or three nests being commonly placed together. It sometimes, however, mixes 

 with the Herring Gulls, for among several hundred of the latter, which circled 

 high over our heads when we invaded their territories, I never failed to detect 

 a few of the Black-backed. I was surprised to find it breeding on some inland 

 ponds, (there mI'^o in company with the Herring Gulls,) the nests being placed 

 on small rocks jutting out of the water. In these situations I have thought 

 them less shy than when breeding on islands open to the sea. The nest is large 

 and bulky, composed of moss and lichens scraped into a heap, the cavity ap- 

 parently formed by the weight of the bird. They are rather shallow for the 

 width, wJiich is nearly or quite two feet externally. The eggs are three, as is 

 usual among the Gulls and Terns, and differ much in size, shape and color, even 

 in those taken from the same nest, some being smaller than the average of 

 Herring Gulls, though they are usually proportionately larger. 



On the 4'h of July three young birds of this species, apparently but a few 

 diiys old, were procured and placed in a basket together with a number of 

 Heiring Gulls of about the same age. Even thus early they evinced their su- 

 periority in s-ize and strength over the other species, for, on looking at them 

 next morning, I found that, their quarters being rather crowded, they had 

 trampled to deisth every one of the others, and were standing triumphantly 

 over the mass of dead bodies, calling loudly for food. When fed they exhibited 

 the greatest vorHcity and gluttony, each devouring at a meal three or four cap- 

 elm some six inches long, which they could swallow whole, and they quarrelled 

 and fuught, continually for choice morsels. Two of these birds were left in 

 charge of a fisherman at Henley Harbor, and on our return, about seven weeks 

 afterwards, they had grown to fully the size of the adults, and were magnificent 

 birds and great favorites. They kept their plumage perfectly clean and in good 

 order, and were very tame. They were then mottled all over with spots of 

 dusky, most of the primaries, and a subterminal band on the tail, black; bill 

 entirely black, legs and feet light flesh color. This is the plumage in which 

 these Gulls remain the greater part of the first year. One of the birds was 

 much larger and stronger than the other, which it tyrannized over continually 

 and kept in perfect subjection. Both uttered frequently a whining noise, espe- 

 cially when hungry; which state, however, seems to be the normal condition of 

 all Gulls, both young and old. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



The Black-backed Gulls surpa5S all birds with which I am acquainted in 

 their shj'ness and wariness, which are so excessive that it is only by stratagfeni 

 that they can be procured. But two were shot by any of the party, both being 

 killed with guns exceeding in their range those to which the birds were accus- 

 tomed. They always fly at a great height over the water, and never alight 

 except in open situations which they have previously cautiously examined. 

 Their flight is firm, extremely powerful, performed with measured beats, and is 

 capable of being greatly protracted. They can force their way against the 

 strongest gales. Their food is principally fish of various kinds, though they 

 do not refuse ofiiil of any description. To procure fish they hover at a height 

 of a few yards over the surface, and when one is espied drop heavily upon it, 

 not, however, closing the wings, which are elevated and flapped rapidly to sup- 

 port them. They seldom or never dive, but on such occasions are frequently 

 partially immersed. 



During the breeding season the birds are very noisy and clamorous, continu- 

 ally uttering their loud, harsh, rough cries. These are of three distinct kinds ; 

 the first, their usual call, is a loud, rough, sonorous " kaw-awk," aptly desig- 

 nated by Audubon as a " furious laugh." They have also a short kind of bark, 

 resembling the syllables " hac-hac-hac ;" and in addition to these a loud harsh 

 scream, uttered when their territories are invaded. On the 31st of July 1 saw 

 a large number of these Gulls collected on the water some ten miles up flsqui- 

 maux Bay, where they filled the air with their loud continued cries, which 

 could be distinctly heard at a distance of nearly a mile. 



This Gull is universally known to the natives, as well as to sailors and fish- 

 ermen, as the " S iddle-backed Gull," or, quite as frequently, simply " Saddler." 

 I have never heard applied to it the name of " Coffee-carrier," said to be the 

 title by which it is designated along the coast of New England. 



Larus augentatus Briinn. — Herring Gull. " Blue Gull." 

 Larus argentatm, And., Birds Amer. vii. 163, pi. 448. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 844. 



The Herring or Silvery Gull is by far the most abundant of the Gulls along 

 the Labrador coast, where it breeds in great numbers, spending the summer 

 months there, and not retiring at least until the second week in September. 

 They were as abundant as ever on the first of that month, when I noticed great 

 numbers of both old and young. I cannot, therefore, comprehend the state- 

 ment of Audubon, where, in his account of Larus viarinus, he says : "No indi- 

 viduals of Larus argenlatus were, to my knowledge, seen on that coast (Labra- 

 dor) during the three months that I passed there, and the fishermen told us 

 that the ' Saddle- backs were the only large Gulls that breed there.' " On many 

 of the innumerable small islands which form a belt six or eight miles deep 

 along the coast in the neighborhood of Little Mecattina, and southward, im- 

 mense companies of these Gulls had assembled to breed ; and at Esquimaux 

 Bay I found them breeding on the small ponds of the interior. They are every 

 where known to the natives as " Blue Gulls." 



On the 4th of July, at Sloop Harbor, I had an opportunity of visiting many 

 islands where these Gulls were breeding in great numbers. On approaching 

 one of the islands, where the birds were sitting quietly on their nests, or walk- 

 ing leisurely about, when we were still several hundred yards distant, they all 

 left their nests, and with loud discordant screams, indicative of their anger at 

 being disturbed, circled high over our heads far beyond the range of our guns. 

 I found the nests placed on the ground in the most irregular manner, appa- 

 rently without the slightest choice as to situation, except that they seemed to 

 prefer the moss-covered rocks and dry bare spots, the grassy patches being 

 appropriated by the few Eiders that bred on the same island. And here let 

 me remark, that on those low grassy islands where the Eiders were most nu- 

 merous, but few Gulls built their nests ; and vice versa, on those bare islands 

 where the Gulls had collected in great numbers, we found but few nests of the 



1861] 




246 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Eiders, though the two birds mix to some extent. The nests were large and 

 bulky, composed of dried grass, moss and lichens scraped into a heap, the 

 cavity formed apparently by the weight of the bird. The eggs, in every in- 

 stance that came under my observation, were three, but varied surprisingly in 

 size, color and markings, and also considerably in shape. They average rather 

 more than two inches and three-quarters in length, by nearly two in greatest 

 diameter, being thus rounded and obtuse. The ground color varies from a 

 liglit bluish or greenish white to deep brownish olive; and the spots are of 

 every size and shape, very irregularly disposed. I found eggs at that date in 

 every stage of development, some being quite fresh, but in the majority the 

 embryos were nearly fully formed. On the same day many young were pro- 

 cured, being caught as they skulked and hid beneath stones, or scrambled off 

 over the luxuriant moss. In no instance did I observe any on the nests. At 

 this period they presented a very curious appearance ; they were ugly and mis- 

 shapen, covered with thick whitish down, every where mottled with angular 

 spots of dusky, and, on the whole, looked more like lumps of dirty carded wool 

 than any thing else. When taken in hand they bit and scratched with all their 

 strength, at the same time squealing loudly. Although these cries brought the 

 parents a little nearer, none ventured within shot. On being placed on the 

 water they swam with ease, and appeared to be perfectly at home. Soon after 

 being caught they fed freely on fish and scraps of pork, and uttered constantly 

 a whining uoise. The first night, however, they were all trampled to dearh by 

 some Black-backed Gulls placed in the same basket. 



At Henley Harbor, during the latter part of August, many birds of the year were 

 seen. They were at this time readily distinguishable from the adults, for besides 

 being smaller, they were entirely of a deep dusky color, darkest below, and with 

 the bills nearly black. One of these, slightly wing-tipped, showed considera- 

 ble spirit, bi'ing the finger placed incautiously within its reach, and ejecting 

 the contents of its stomach — principally lance — with remarkably accurate and 

 vindictive aim. The Irtnce seems to be the favorite and principal food with 

 this and other Gulls, and many were always to be seen fishing for them at the 

 mouth of the harbor. To procure them they hover at a height of a few yards 

 over the surface and drop suddenly down when a fish is discovered ; never, I 

 believe, diving, though they are often partially immersed. They rise again 

 immediately, and the operation is repeated indefinitely, their hunger never 

 seen)ing to be appeased. I have seen more than a hundred of these Gulls and 

 the great Black-backed and the Ring-billed fishing together, but never noticed 

 the slightest sign of any quarrelling or difficulty between them. 



The Herring Gull requires three years to arrive at full maturity. During the 

 greater part of the first year they are much as described above. The dusky 

 gradually grows lighter, and by the second year the bird is white, mottled with 

 dusky about the head and neck ; the tail mostly black, the primaries black, as 

 yet without spots, and the "gull-blue" replacing the grey mottling of the 

 wings and back in irregular patches ; the bill light flesh color, with a broad 

 black band near the end. By the next winter the bird is perfect, except some 

 slight mottling about the head and neck, and the following spring is in full 

 plumage. I am enabled to give the above descriptions from specimens sent me 

 from near Hampton, N. H., by Mr. Charles Perkins, shot about the first of De- 

 cember. They must moult very late, as some of these specimens had the quills 

 only partially grown out. I am unable to say whether any breed in the imma- 

 ture plumage. 



The abundance of this gull every where during its extensive migrations, 

 cause its voice, flight and general manners to be so well known, that a detailed 

 account of them is rendered unnecessary. 



Larijs Delawarensis Ord. — Ring-billed Gull. 

 Lams zonorhynchus, And., Birds Amer, vii. 152 ; pi. 446. 

 I.arus Delawarensis, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 846. 

 Three specimens of this small Gull were obtained at Henley Harbor on the 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



21st of August. They were all birds of the year, being every where mottled 

 witli dull greyish; the primaries and a broad terminal band on the tail black, 

 as is also the terminal third of the bill, the rest being light flesh color. They 

 were shot while busily engaged in fishing for lance, which seemed to form their 

 favorite food. On skinning ihem, I found the gullet and stomach filled with 

 the fish. They were not at all shy ; they permitted a near approach without 

 desisting from their occupation, and the three were shot in rapid succession 

 before the rest became alarmed and flew oflT. Indeed, I have often thought 

 that the wariness of Gulls is in exact proportion to their size. Thus the Utile 

 Hooded Gulls, and the Kittiwakes, are so familiar as to hover and sport near 

 the stern of a vessel ; the Ring-bills come next, and though not so unsuspicious 

 as the last, are by no means sby ; the Herring Gulls, the next in size, are much 

 more watchful and difficult to procure, while the Black-backed and Glaucous 

 Gulls evince such excessive wariness and caution that it is only by stratagem 

 they can be procured. Though the theory may not hold good in all cases, I 

 certainly saw no exceptions to it during my stay in Labrador. 



Chboicocephalcs Philadelphia (Ord.) Lawr. — Bonaparte's Gull. 



Larus Bonapartei, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. ISl ; pi. 442. 

 Chroicocephalus Philadelphia, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 852. 



Many of these beautiful little Gulls were seen at different times during the 

 voyage, though they were perhaps more abundant than elsewhere in the south- 

 ern portions of the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It is not a little singular that the 

 breeding places of a Gull so common, well known, and widely diffused as the 

 present, should be still unascertained with certainty, and the egg almost un- 

 known to science ; yet such is the case. Though my opportunities ot observing 

 this species were limited, I could not but be struck with the remaikable fami- 

 liarity and want of suspicion exhibited by it on all occasions. Numbers would 

 often hover and sport around the stern of the vessel, so close that I could plainly 

 see the dark spot behind the eye which characterizes the immature bird of 

 this species. Their flight on such occasions, and indeed at all times, is ex- 

 tremely buoyant and graceful, in these respects resembling that of a Tern 

 rather than of a Gull. I noticed that, while flying, individuals would scratch 

 the head and neck with their claws, which operation, however, did not seem to 

 impede their flight in the least. At that season (September) none were seen 

 with the head enveloped in the hood which adorns both sexes during the 

 breeding season. Those which I took to be birds of the year, had all a broad 

 subterminal band of black on the tail, and in many the black of the primaries 

 extended unbroken over the shoulder quite to the body. 



KissA TBYDACTiLA (L.) Bon. — Kittiwake Gull. 



Lams tridactylas, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 146; pi. 444. 

 Rissa tridactyla, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 854. 



I met with this interesting Gull on but one occasion, which was en the 3d of 

 August, while sailing up Esquimaux Bay several miles from its mouth. A small 

 company hovered and circled over the boat, and a specimen was secured. Being 

 only wing-tipped, it fluttered to some distance on the water, constantly utter- 

 ing its piercing screams, which caused its comrades to hover over it for some 

 time, showing their sympathy by loud cries. 



Sterna Wilsoni Bon. — "Wilson's Tern. " Mackerel Gull." 

 Sterna Wilsoni, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 97; pi. 433. Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 861. 



During my short stay at Rigolet, I saw a good many of these Terns, but found 

 none in any other locality. They possess iu the extreme the buoyancy, grace- 

 fulness and ease of flight for which the whole family is so celebrated, perform- 

 ing the most beautiful evolutions without the least apparent effort, To obtaia 



1861.] 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



their food, which, as far as I could ascertain, consisted chiefly of small fish, 

 they hover lightly and slowly over the water at a height of a few feet. When 

 a fish is espied, they nearly or quite close the wings and dart down with great 

 rapidity, and usually go quite under water. With a slight shiver the beautiful 

 birds shake the water off their plumage, swallow the fish as they reascend, and 

 again hover eagerly watching for more. They were not at all shy. They are 

 known to the natives by quite a variety of names. I have heard them called 

 "Rapes," "Steerines," " Pathricks," and "Mackerel Gulls," the last being the 

 name by which they and other Terns are known to the fishermen, given in re- 

 ference to their forked tail. 



CoiiYMBUS TOBQUATUS Briinn. — Great Northern Diver. " Loon," " Loo." 



Colymhus glacialis, Aud., Birds Amer. rii. 282 ; pi. 476. 

 Colymbus torquatus, Lawrence, Gen. Rep. 888. 



This large, powerful and hardy bird is abundant throughout Labrador. It 

 frequents cliiefly the numerous ponds formed by the depressions of the rugged 

 surface of the country, near the borders of which the nest is usually placed. 

 Though numbers were seen, yet so shy, wary and vigilant is it, and so expert in 

 eluding pursuit on the water by its extraordinary powers of diving, that not a 

 single one was obtained by any of the party. The most successful method of 

 procuring it is to lie perfectly concealed near the edge of the pond where it may 

 be swimming, and to decoy it within shot by imitating its notes. The imita- 

 tion, however, must be skilfully executed, or the wary bird will perceive the 

 deception. Tlie notes of the Loon, of all the birds with which I am acquainted, 

 are the most wild, free and iudependent, seemingly uttered in full knowledge 

 of the security which its wariness and vigor aflFord. It is from its cry that it 

 derives its name of "Loon," or " Loo," as it is perhaps oftener pronounced by 

 the natives. On the first of August, I came upon a pair of these birds on an 

 inland pond, about three long gunshots wide ; they had with them two young 

 birds, apparently but a few days old. Perfectly aware of the safety of their 

 position, they remained close together exactly in the centre of the pond, keep- 

 ing the youiig between them, and at intervals sending forth their loud defiant 

 screams. On being fired at, they simply ducked for a moment beneath the 

 surface, and immediately rose again, and I was obliged to leave them to their 

 occupations. 



? Colymbus septentrionalis Linn. — Red-throated Diver. 



Colymbus septentrionalis, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 299 ; pi. 478. Lawrence, Gen. 

 Rep. 890. 

 I obtained two eggs, supposed to be of this species, at Sloop Harbor, on the 

 4th of July ; they were at that date quite fresh. The parent was seen but at a 

 distance too great for positive identification. The nest was placed on the edge 

 of a small pool of water, on a small barren island, and was very rudely con- 

 structed of dried rushes matted loosely together, on which the eggs were depo- 

 sited without the slightest attempt at concealment. They measured two inches 

 and nine-sixteenths in length, by one and eleven-sixteenths in breadth, and 

 were of a uniform dark olive brown, with rather small spots of a very dark 

 brownish black, and a few others of a lighter tint. They were much shorter 

 and more rounded than undoubted eggs of C. septentrionalis, their form being 

 regularly ovate, while that of the latter is nearly elliptical. The color was 

 lighter. Very possibly they belonged to C. Arcticus. 



Alca impennis Linnaeus. — Great Auk. " Penguin." 

 Alca impennis, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. ; pi. 465. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 900. 



Concerning this most extraordinary bird, remarkable in consequence of its 

 not possessing the power of flight, and as being the sole representative in the 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 249 



northern hemisphere of the numerous Penguins, {Aptenodytes) of the fouthern, 

 I made diligent inquiry of every one who might be expected to have any linow- 

 ledge of it. I was the more anxious to obtain some account of it from the fact 

 of its being supposed to be nearly if not quite extinct ; its introduction into 

 the fauna of North America resting on very insufficient data. Though none of 

 the natives of Labrador whom I interrogated had any knowledge of it, the 

 fishermen knew immediate'y to what I referred when I spoke of " Penguins " — 

 as they are called — and all with singular unanimity agreed in designating the 

 Funks, aa island off the south-east coast of Newfoundland as the only place 

 where the birds were to be found. Yet I could never find a person who had 

 actually seen one of the birds; they had only heard of them as Penguins. But 

 the fact of their all agreeing as to the precise locality where the birds were to 

 be found, seemed to me worthy of attention. 



UTAMANIA Leach. 



Gen. Ch. — Size moderate. General form stout, heavy, strong, compact; head 

 moderate, neck short and thick, body heavy. Wings moderate; tail short; feet 

 short and strong. Bill lengthened, about equal to the head, densely feathered 

 for half its length, the feathers on the upper mandible extending much be- 

 yond the middle of the commissure, and nearly as far as those on the lower : very 

 strong, much compressed, with several transverse grooves which are curved in 

 the upper mandible. Upper mandible much deeper than the lower, with a 

 moderately prominent bdsal ridge at base of the horny portion ; the culmen re- 

 gularly arched, tip considerably hooked and bent over the lower. Commissure 

 very long, quite straight to near the tip where it is suddenly decurved. Gonys 

 about straight. Nostrils linear, not pervious, moderately long, very narrow, 

 situated just above the commissure on the feathered portion of the bill, immedi- 

 ately posterior to the lower corner of the basal ridge. Wings fully developed, 

 admitting of flight, reaching beyond the base of the tail ; primaries stiff, strong, 

 somewhat fulcate, first longest. Tail short, pointed, rather stiffened, the 

 feathers acuminate, central pair tapering and elongated. Legs short, stout and 

 strong; tibia bare for a short space above the joint; tarsus shorter than the 

 middle toe. Toes three, anterior, entirely united by a membrane. Claws all 

 short, stout, blunt. 



Colors. — Xeck and upper parts brownish black; beneath white. A conspic- 

 uous white line from the eye to the summit of the basal ridge. 



The essential characters of this genus lie in the wings, which are fully de- 

 veloped an i admit of flight. By this alone it would be entitled to full generic 

 rank, distinct from Alca with the type ^4. impennis L., were there no other char- 

 acters involved. But one species, the U. torda Leach, is known, which is 

 found abundantly in the more northern portions of both hemispheres, and is 

 the most characteristic bird of those regions, 



Utamakia toeda Leach. — Razor-billed Auk. " Tinker." 



Alca torda, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 247 ; pi. 466. 

 Alca (^Utamania) torda, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 901. 



This, the most characteristic bird of marine arctic fauna, is remarkably abun- 

 dant throughout the extent of Labrador. While in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, 

 before reaching that country, numbers were every day seen flying rather low 

 over the water, generally in single file, and sometimes passing very close 

 around the vessel. At Esquimaux Bay, the most northern point visited, they 

 were perhaps more numerous than elsewhere, breeding plentifully among the 

 many thousands of Puffins there collected. I was credibly informed that they 

 formerly bred in so great numbers on Backelew Island, off the coast of New- 

 foundland, that they received the name of " Backelew Birds ;" an appellation I 

 occasionally still heard applied to them, though they have entirely deserted the 

 1861] 




250 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



island. Another small island on the east side of Esquimaux Bay, has in a like 

 manner been deserted, the birds apparently having retired to the PufBa islands 

 on the opposite side of the Bay. From these facts, I could not but conclude 

 that the birds are slowly but surely retiring before the persecutions of man to 

 more norlhern and inaccessible regions, though thousands still breed as far and 

 farther south than Little Mecattina and the Murre Rocks. 



It was at Sloop Harbor, on the third of July, that I first formed acquaintance 

 with the Razor-billed Auks. As we dropped anchor in that sheltered cove, a 

 large company of them were sitting at a little distance on a flat rock, crowded 

 closely together, and all facing towards the sun, then low in the skies. They 

 rested perfectly upright on their rumps, occasionally twisting their bodies in a 

 curious jerking manner. No sooner, however, had our boat touched the rocky 

 shore than they all instantly took flight and dispersed either singly or in small 

 flocks. Although so watchful, they seemed to be not at all aware of the nature 

 of the danger that threatened them, for they flew directly towards or past us 

 as often as in any other direction, and numbers were easily shot. On the fol- 

 lowing day, the fourth of Jul}', while searching for the eggs of the Eiders and 

 Herring Gulls, I had abundant opportunity for observing their flight and 

 general manners, for they bred in considerable numbers in the crevices of all 

 the rocky islands in the vicinity. 



Although the Razor-bills cannot be approached while sitting on the rocks, yet 

 while flying they evince such a want of caution, or rather so much stupidity, as 

 to fly continually directly over and past a boat at such short distances that they 

 are easily shot down. But they are strong and tough birds and carry a great 

 deal of shot, requiring a heavy charge to kill them. I have occasionally seen 

 one fly off, apparently as strong as ever, leaving a cloud of white feathers 

 floating in the air. When only one wing is broken ihey dive with great ease and 

 celerity, and are then difficult to secure. When shot at and not touched, they 

 open and shut the tail, swerve from their course and quicken their flight. 



Though they are, I believe, entirel}- mute while flying, on being wounded 

 and taken in hand they utter a loud, rough, hoarse cry, at the samet ime throwing 

 themselves on their backs, fighting and scratching most furiously. They bite 

 with great force, their strong hooked bills enabling them to inflict a severe 

 wound, and they will suffer themselves to be held up by their bite before 

 they will relax their hold. The name of Razor-bill is certainly a most appro- 

 priate one. 



The flight of this bird is firm, well-sustained, very swift, and, considering 

 the heavy body and short wings, very powerful. It is performed with short, 

 quick, vigorous flappings- They never sail ; but on one occasion I saw an in- 

 dividual endeavor to flap its wings with a slow, measured stroke. It was but 

 a few yards, however, and it at once found that mode of flight impracticable. 

 On the water they swim lightly and elegantly with the head and tail elevated, 

 exactly as represented in the right hand figure of Audubon's life-like plate. 

 When well stewed, their flesh is by no means poor, being, though rather 

 tough, well flavored, and not possessing the slightest rank or fishy taste. We 

 all ate them whenever they conld be procured. 



The situations chosen by the Auks for their breeding places are generally 

 the rocky, precipitous islands where there are many caverns and fissures, in 

 which the eggs are deposited, often together with those of the Black Guillemot, 

 Uria grylle. I have never found more than a single egg, though in the face of 

 such authority as Audubon to the contrary, I should not like to assert that 

 two are never laid. I have great pleasure in being able to corroborate the 

 statement made by this distinguished ornithologist with regard to the sagacity 

 displayed by the birds in protecting their eggs from the wet. When deposited 

 in damp fissures, through which the water is continually percolating, a layer 

 of small pebbles is placed beneath the egg, to keep it from the moisture, but 

 in sufficiently dry situations, where the caution is no longer necessary, the 

 birds never undertake the additional labor. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



The eggs, though differing considerably in their markings, are comparatively 

 uniform in size and shape, being usually about three inches in length by a very 

 little less than two in breadth. The ground color is either pure white or with 

 a creamy or light bluish tinge. The spots are of diflferent shades of umber 

 brown, very often attracted into a ring around the larger end, but sometimes 

 pretty uniformly distributed. They vary in size from mere points to large 

 blotches. The eggs, though thus differing among themselves, still always 

 preserve a certain character distinct from that of the Murre, through all the 

 endless variations of the latter. They are smaller, their shape is less elon- 

 gated, they are never of a green ground color, and are never fantastically 

 streaked and lined — the more usual pattern among those of the Murre. 



I was not a little surprised, when I visited the Puffin Islands, to find there 

 the Auks also, breeding in considerable numbers. I estimated that a fourth or 

 fifth part of the many thousand birds breeding there were of this species. On 

 the north side the island is rocky and precipitous, and there the birds princi- 

 pally collected ; yet on all other sides they were mixing indiscriminately with 

 the Puffins, and laying their single egg in the deserted holes of the latter. In 

 these holes, where the earth was comparatively dry and warm, not a vestige of 

 a nest of any kind was found, the egg being deposited on the bare ground. 

 Associated so intimately, I never saw the slightest semblance of any difficulty 

 between the two specie^, although in some instances they were incubating ia 

 contiguous holes. At that date (July 25th) some of the eggs were quite fresh, 

 and I found young birds, from which is to be inferred that the species is not 

 v«ry exact as to the time of laying its eggs. 



I noticed another fact that I do not recollect of having seen recorded; it is, 

 that the Auks associate in considerable numbers with the Murres. While 

 passing the well-known rocks where the latter were breeding in tens of thou- 

 sands, among the countless flocks flying constantly around us, we never failed 

 to detect some of the AuiiS, either in flocks by themselves or mixing indiscrimi- 

 nately with the Murres. Although the two birds are identical in size and 

 colors, they could always be distinguished, even at the distance of a long gun 

 shot, by their bills ; the long, slender and pointed ones of the Murres contrast- 

 ing distinctly with the short, thick, seemingly truncate bills of the Auks. As 

 a natural consequence of this intermingling, the eggs must of necessity be con- 

 founded ; yet I do not think it would be difficult to distinguish with tolerable 

 certainty the two kinds, by the differences already pointed out. 



It would seem the Razor-billed Auk is capable of conforming its habits ia a 

 remarkable degree to suit varying circumstances, while carrying out the great 

 law of reproduction. Its eggs are deposited in fissures and caverns with th« 

 Black Guillemot, on the bare rock with the Murre, and in holes in the ground 

 with the Puffin. The time of depositing its eggs, and their number, (?) also 

 vary. The fact of its associating in perfect harmony with other species to the 

 extent which it does, indicates the possession of a remarkably peaceful dispo- 

 sition. It is known universally to all fishermen and eggers, as well as to the 

 natives, by the singular naiue of " Tinker." Its proper name I never heard 

 applied to it. 



Mormon arcticcs?* Illiger. — Arctic Puffin. "Parrakeet." 

 Mormon arcticus, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 2.38, pi. 464. Cassin, Gen. Rep. 903. 

 The habit of collecting in immense numbers at particular localities during 



* A series of Puffins recently received from Europe by the Smithsonian Institution, has 

 raised a doubt with regard lo the specific identity of the American bird with the true 

 M. arcticus of Europe. I have therefore thought it proper to give the name arcticus with 

 a query. It is also believed that there is on the Labrador coast an undescribed species 

 of Mormon, in addition to the present. Prof. Baird is at present invtstigating the subject, 

 the results of which will soon be published in a monograph. 



1861.] 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



the breeding season, so characteristic of the whole family of Alcidce, is a trait 

 exhibited in the highest degree by the species now under consideration. With 

 scarcely the exception of the Common Murre. no bird of the family shows bo 

 pre-eminently gregarious a disposition as does the Arctic PufiBn. Collecting, as 

 it does in thousands, on particular islands of small extent, it becomes a matter 

 of astonishment that food can be i)rocured in sufficient quantity to sustain 

 them, or that each pair can find a place to deposit its egar. The pertinacity, 

 too, with which they cling to the immediate vicinity of their breeding place is 

 remarkable. But a very short distance from an island where there are thou- 

 sands, it is a comparatively uncommon thing to see a Puffin. The most ex- 

 tensive of these breeding places appears to be an island near the harbor of 

 Bras-D'or, visited by Audubon in 1833, of which he has written so graphic and 

 instructive an account. The one, however, that I had an opportunity of visit- 

 ing cannot be much behind it in point of the numbers of the birds breeding on 

 it ; and during a stay of three days I had ample opportunity of examining the 

 island and noting the manners of its curious population. My visit was on the 

 25th, 26th and 27th of July. Let a short extract from my journal describe our 

 approach to the island. 



" We were now within less than a mile from the island, towards which all 

 eyes were anxiously turned, and still not a bird met our gaze. But a few 

 minutes more, however, and they commenced to appear, flying round the boat 

 or resting on the water ; all were ' Parrakeets' and ' Tinkers,' except now and 

 then a solitary ' Turre.' They were tamer than I ever saw birds before, al- 

 most flying between the masts of our little whale-boat; it was hard to restrain 

 from firing. As we rounded the island close to the shore, they came tumbling 

 out of their holes by hundreds, and with the thousands we disturbed from the 

 surface of the water, soon made a perfect cloud above and around us, no 

 longer flying in flocks, but forming one dense continuous mass. And yet not 

 a gun had been fired." 



The Parrakeet Islands are three in number, lying along the western shore of 

 Esquimaux Bay, just at its mouth. The one I visited is the innermost as well 

 as the largest, though the others are equally crammed with the birds. It is 

 about a mile in circumference ; in shape almost a perfect semicircle, with two 

 points stretching out and enclosing a snug cove, where only can a landing be 

 efi^ected with safety. It is abrupt and precipitous on the three sides, the fourth 

 sloping gradually down to the cove. The top is nearly flat, and covered with 

 a rather luxuriant growth of grass, the soil being enriched by the innumerable 

 droppings of the birds. The three sides in which the holes are dug are so 

 steep and precipitous that it required considerable agility to scramble along 

 them, the danger of falling into the water below being increased by the slip- 

 periness of the soil, worn smooth by innumerable feet, and continually moist- 

 ened with ordure. The sides are composed of soft loamy earth, with rocks of 

 every size and shape jutting out in all directions, and afi'ord the most favor- 

 able possible conditions for the excavation of the burrows. The fourth side 

 between the two points is composed mostly of masses of rock, in the crevices 

 of which the Auks chiefly deposit their eggs, though they very often appro- 

 priate the deserted holes of the Puffins. 



The holes in the ground in which the Puffins deposit their eggs, — a habit, 

 as far as I am aware, entirely peculiar to the genus in this family of birds — 

 are excavated by the birds themselves, an operation for which their powerful 

 beaks and long strong and sharp claws admirably adapt them. They extend 

 nearly or quite in a horizontal direction, and are subcircular in shape, with the 

 diameter scarcely larger than is necessary for the free passage of a single bird. 

 They vary much in length, but the majority are not so deep but that the egg 

 may be reached by thrusting in the arm to its fullest extent. Their course is 

 seldom in a straight direction ; they curve and wind in a most tortuous man- 

 ner, many burrows being connected together by winding passages. The en- 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



trances to the holes are worn flat and smooth by continual paddling from the 

 feet of the birds, and, as well as the whole sides of the island, are moist and 

 slippery with the ordure. The sides of the island from just above high water 

 mark to the very top, are perforated with innumerable holes, but on the top it- 

 self not a single burrow is to be seen. At the further extremity of the hole, 

 which is usually a little enlarged, the single egg is deposited, always a slight 

 bed of dried grasses being first arranged to keep it from the moist earth. I 

 have indeed found eggs lying on the bare ground near the entrance of the 

 burrows, whither they had apparently been dragged by the bird as it hurriedly 

 made its exit ; but in no instance did I find one in its usual position at the 

 further extremity, that was not upon a layer of grass. I noticed this fact the 

 more particularly, since Audubon expressly states that no nest whatever is 

 formed for the reception of the egg. Without for a moment doubting the accu- 

 racy of that great naturalist's observations, the present case is only additional 

 proof of the extent to which the habits of birds are influenced by circum- 

 stances ; the position of nests, the number of eggs, &c., varying much, and the 

 food changing in a measure with every change of locality. The eggs measure 

 two and a half inches in length, by one and three-fourths in greatest diameter, 

 varying very little from this standard ; in shape, which is a rather rounded 

 ovate, they differ in being more or less obtuse at the smaller end. The great- 

 est diameter is nearly opposite the middle. The shell is usually more or less 

 granulated, but differs much in the extent of the granulation. The color is white 

 or whitish, varying from nearly pure to a brownish hue, the latter color being 

 in the shell, and not caused by soiling or discoloration. They are marked 

 with obsolete, sometimes almost imperceptible dots, spots, and lines of light 

 purplish, mostly attracted into a ring around the large end. There are some- 

 times a few irregular splashes of very light yellowish brown. Audubon is 

 clearly in error when he states that they are simply " pure white." At that 

 date, (July 25th) they all with few exceptions contained young about to be 

 hatched. 



Another extract from my journal will portray, perhaps more graphically 

 than could be done in any other style, the manners of the birds on being in- 

 vaded. " Hardly had our boat touched the shore than we leaped out, guns in 

 hand, and at once scattered over the island. As we advanced along the sides, 

 the affrighted birds darted past us like arrows, issuing from their burrows 

 beneath our feet and around us, and all making directly for the water. Those 

 alreadj^ disturbed flew in every direction above us, while thousands rested on 

 the water in a dense mass at a little distance. I took my stand on a flat rock, 

 and in less than an hour a pile of Puftins, more than I could carry, lay at my 

 feet. Shortly after I commenced firing the birds formed themselves into an 

 immense circle, of a diameter of perhaps a third of a mile, one point of which 

 justgrazed the island. It was astonishing to see with what precision this circle 

 was preserved, each bird flying directly in the wake of the one that preceded. 

 I had merely to stand facing the advancing birds, and no better opportunity 

 for continual slaughter could be desired, I now realized what I had been told, 

 but had found hard to believe, that a wagon might be filled with the birds by 

 a tolerably expert marksman, shooting them at just such a moment that they 

 should fall into it. The poor things seemed not at all aware of the nature of 

 the danger that threatened them ; flying so close past me that I could almost 

 strike them with my gun. During the continual firing the birds would emerge 

 from their holes every minute or two ; and after shooting for half an hour on 

 one spot I was not a little surprised to see two or three start out almost from be- 

 tween my feet, and in great fright make the best of their way down to the water. 

 On emerging from the holes the birds generally looked around for a moment to 

 see what was the matter, and then in great haste fluttered and tumbled down to 

 the water below, in whichthey immediately dived, and swimming swiftly under 

 water i-eappeared at some distance. From the countless thousands flying 



1861.] 




254 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



around me I did not hear the slightest note of anj kind ; they flew in per- 

 fect silence. When wounded, if they fell on the land, they immediately ran 

 and threw themselves into the nearest hole, if in the water, they dived and swam 

 as far under the surface as their strength allowed. I observed not the slight- 

 est indication of any sympathy for those wounded or killed on the part of the 

 other birds, as stated by Audubon. The survivors did not notice them in the 

 least, though they lay exposed everywhere on the rocks, and floated about on 

 the water." 



The flight of the Puffin when once on wing is firm, well sustained, very 

 swift and performed with short, quick, vigorous beats. When it takes flight 

 from a rock whence it can project itself into the air, it at once supports itself 

 without difficulty ; but when on the water it is obliged to flap over the surface 

 for several yards before it can rise on wing. When getting under weigh, the 

 feet are extended backwards and outwards on each side of the tail, which is 

 spread, but they are soon drawn up, and the tail closed. When shot at and 

 not touched, like the Auks they swerve from their course, open and shut the 

 tail, and extend the feet. When standing on a rock or at the entrance of their 

 burrows, where they alight without the slightest difficulty, they present a 

 peculiarly grotesque appearance, such as isaiforded by no other bird. Their 

 short thickset bodies, big heads, enormous brightly colored bills and red legs, 

 give them a comical appearance, which is enhanced by their upright position 

 and the odd nature of their movements, as they twist the head and jerk the 

 body in various directions. Though on a three days acquaintance we were 

 somewhat familiarized with their movements, we could never quite restrain a 

 laugh when we saw one thus " attitudinizing" on the edge of a rock. 



When taken in band the Puffin utters a loud, hoarse, croaking scream, at the 

 same time fighting most furiously. They are capable of inflicting a very severe 

 wound with their powerful bills, easily drawing the blood. Their long and 

 strong inner claw is also an eff'ective weapon, so that by dint of scratching, 

 biting, and struggling, they proved difficult customers to manage. The most 

 courageous of our party seldom held one more than a few moments before he 

 was glad to set it at liberty. Indeed, their rage at being caught is so ungovern- 

 able, that two held together attacked each other with fury, and a single one 

 held up by the wings, bit its own wing and scratched its own face most en- 

 ergetically. 



I could not but admire the beautiful provision of nature with regard to fur- 

 nishing this bird with the means of excavating its burrow with facility. The 

 inner claw of each foot is very long, much curved and excessively sharp. To 

 preserve it so, when not in use, it always lies perfectly flat, so that the point 

 does not rest on the ground. In digging and fighting, however, it is held up- 

 right, and then becomes a very effective weapon. The bill, always so remark- 

 ble in form and color, varies much with age in size and shape, and also in 

 the extent of the ridges and furrows. The color, however, is always pretty 

 constant ; and a description of its tints, with those of the eyes, feet, &c., taken 

 from a very perfect fresh bird, may not be uninteresting, as the color fades 

 much in dried specimens. Base of the bill and first ridge dull yellowish 

 white, between the two dark bluish ash ; rest of bill bright Vermillion red, the 

 tip of the lower mandible and the two last furrows being yellowish white. 

 Inside of mouth and warty rugose excrescences at the base of the commissure 

 bright chrome. Iris hazel, eyelids vermillion, the short processes above and 

 below the eye bluish ash. Legs and feet bright orange red, claws black. 



I was much surprised while at Rigolet, to see a great number of Puffins fly- 

 ing over the surface of the Bay in large compact flocks. Whether they had 

 come from the island described, or whether there was another island in the 

 immediate vicinity, I am unable to say, though I think the latter most prob- 

 ably the case. These birds proved rather shy, avoiding our boats with 

 some care. The fact of their being found so far inland is worth recording. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



The flesh of the Puffin, though not ill-flavored, is so excessively tough as to 

 be eatable only in cases of necessity. It is most commonly known as the 

 " Parrakeet,'' (Paroquet) as it is pronounced ; they are also called " Sea- 

 parrots," and are sometimes designated by their proper name of Puffin. 



Uria (Uria) grylle Latham. — Black Guillemot. — " Sea-pigeon." 



Uria grylle, Aud., Birds Amer. vii. 272, pi. 474. 

 Uria [Uria) grylle^ Cassin, Gen. Rep. 911. 



The history of the Black Guillemot is an interesting one. In the extraordi- 

 nary changes of plumage it undergoes, in its extensive breeding range, and the 

 many entirely peculiar habits it possesses, it differs widely from all birds of the 

 family on the eastern coast of America. The most remarkable fact connected 

 with it is, that it breeds abundantly in the interior of the continent, being 

 fouud in great numbers on the southern shores of Hudson's Bay, while the other 

 species of Alcidce are probably without an exception exclusively marine. It is 

 very plentiful throughout the extent of Labrador, where many remain during 

 the whole winter ; in fact, with the exception of the Auks, Murres, and Puffins, 

 which congregate in such immense numbers at certain places, it is the most 

 common and generally distributed bird, breeding along the whole coast. I 

 obtained eggs at Sloop Harbor, the first locality visited, and at Groswater 

 Bay they were still more abundant. Audubon speaks of finding them at the 

 Magdaline Islands, and I have seen specimens from Greenland, which, with 

 the fact of its breeding plentifully on Hudson's Bay, prove for it a breeding 

 range remarkable among the Alcidce. It is a hardy bird, remaining through- 

 out the year in Labrador. The changes of plumage which it undergoes are 

 very great. About the middle of August, or as soon as the duties of rearing 

 the young are concluded, the change commences, with the moult. In a very 

 short time they have become most curiously mottled with pure white, and the 

 change goes on till the body becomes almost entirely white — the wings and 

 tail mostly remaining black. In this state of plumage, which is shared also 

 by the young for the first year, they continue during the winter, and until the 

 breeding dress is again assumed the following spring. While undergoing the 

 change, they are entirely unable to fly, from the loss of the primary quills. 



The Black Guillemot chooses for its breeding place the most rocky, broken, 

 and precipitous islands along the coast, in the numerous fissures and caverns of 

 the eggs are deposited. Wherever there are rough jagged rocks sloping 

 down in huge masses to the water, there the Black Guillemot will always be 

 found breeding in greater or less abundance. Though they never congregate 

 at one spot in such immense numbers as the Puffins and Murres are wont to do, 

 yet there are some islands which, from their peculiar adaptation to their 

 wants, are taken complete possession of by the birds. These islands, wher- 

 ever found, are known to the natives as " Sea-pigeon Islands." Here they 

 breed in great numbers, every fissure and cavern being occupied by one or 

 more pair. They show marked preference for the most tortuous and deepest 

 crevices, at the extremity of which the eggs are deposited. They are most 

 usually two in number; never more, so far as my own observations extend; 

 but as Audubon, on the best of authority, personal observation, expressly 

 states that the number is sometimes three, the fact must be considered as es- 

 tablished. They measure nearly or quite two inches and three-eighths in length 

 by one and five-eighths in greatest diameter, and are, in size and shape — which 

 latter is nearly elliptical — pretty constant, much more so than is usual in the 

 family. The shell is rough ; its ground color a very light greenish or earthy 

 white ; it is irregularly spotted and blotched with two shades of brown, one very 

 dark, and with light purplish. The markings are mostly attracted into a ring 

 about the larger end, though they vary much in their disposition, sometimes 

 being very regularly distributed over the whole surface. The egg is never, I 



1861.] 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



believe, streaked in any manner. Towards the latter part of June or 1 st of July 

 the eggs are laid, and the young appear the second or third week of that month ; 

 but the precise period of incubation I am unable to state. When surprised on the 

 nest, the parent, if she be not already there, creeps to the furthermost ex- 

 tremity of the fissure, and, as if aware of the safety of her retreat, cannot be 

 induced to come out. But if it becomes aware of an approach before the en- 

 trance be obstructed, it invariably takes flight, making directly for the water. 

 Should the fissure be so shallow that the bird may be reached by the hand, it 

 sits quite still, even allowing a noose to be put over its head without strug- 

 gling, and on being taken in hand shows a gentleness of disposition quite the 

 opposite of the Puflins. It merely pecks at the hand once or twice feebly, and 

 yields itself in silence and without struggling. The young at first are entirely 

 of a dull sooty black, and have not the beautiful Vermillion legs of the adult, 

 these being of a dusky hue. They constantly utter a low, plaintive "peep," 

 when requiring attention from the parent. On a warm, sunny day, all the 

 birds will sometimes leave their eggs and young, and collect in large flocks 

 on the water at a little distance from the shore, where they wash and plume 

 themselves. So completely are the nests deserted on these occasions, that on 

 an island nearly a mile in circumference, I have found but a single bird on 

 its nest, though hundreds rested on the water at a little distance. 



The flight of the Black Guillemot is firm, even, and direct, though not pow- 

 erful ; performed by quick flappings, when the white of the upper and under 

 surfaces of the wings shows as one continuous spot. They invariably, except 

 when going to and from their eggs, fly very low over the water ; I never saw 

 one more than a few feet over the surface, and they usually just clear the tops 

 of the waves. They are rather timid and wary, seldom allowing an open ap- 

 proach within shooting distance, and always when flying, wheeling and 

 changing their direction just at the right moment. The best way to procure 

 them is to sail or row directly down wind upon them, since, being unable to 

 rise from the water except against the wind, they are forced to fly in such a 

 direction as to afford a good shot. They often dive on being approached, 

 when by noting their direction and pursuing in haste, they may be shot the 

 instant they rise, or as they fly off". They are most expert divers, easily 

 eluding, when on the watch, the shot intended for their destruction. When 

 shot at in flight and not touched, they generally plunge at once into the water, 

 as if killed, which idea however is quickly dispelled by seeing them reappear 

 at a little distance and take flight. Except near large breeding places they are 

 seldom seen in companies of more than a dozen, and far oftener they are to be 

 found singly, or two or three together. They are universally known to the 

 natives and fishermen as "Sea-pigeons," the only name I ever heard applied 

 to them. 



Uria. (Oataractes) lomvia, Briinn. — Foolish Guillemot. Murre. " Turre." 

 Uria (^Cataracles) lomvia, Cassin, Gen. Rep. 913. 



On the sixth of July we passed a celebrated breeding place of these birds, 

 known as the " Murre Rocks," situated a few miles north of the harbor of 

 Little Mecattina. They are two small, rocky and very precipitous islands, al- 

 most entirely destitute of vegetation ; the sides, which rise abruptly from the 

 sea, are composed of successive tiera or ledges of shelving rock, on which the 

 eggs are deposited. The birds at this date were breeding on the islands by tens 

 of thousands ; their number was truly incredible, and yet I was informed that 

 these were rather fewer than usual. As we drew near the island, the air 

 seemed darkened with the masses that wheeled and circled overhead ; while 

 on every flat rock and ledge the birds were densely packed in rows and tiers, 

 each sitting, or rather standing (for they seemed to rest perfectly upright on 

 their rumps) sentinel over its solitary egg. The birds all seemed to be facing 

 in the same direction, and it was with great pleasure that I noticed the curious 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



effect mentioned by Audubon in his interesting account. The white breasts of 

 the birds appeared in marked contrast to the dull grej of the rocks, with which 

 the color of the head and neck so well harmonized as to cause the birds to 

 appear deprived of those very indispensable portions. To my great disap- 

 pointment, I was not permitted to land and examine the islands and their 

 inhabitants; our captain, as on other occasions, paying no regard to the wishes 

 of the passengers. Again, on our return, though we passed between the 

 islands, not for an hour, even, would he delay, to enable me to notice the birds 

 or to obtain specimens. I am therefore unable to give any account of the man- 

 ners of these most interesting birds. A barrel of eggs was procured, and 

 placed at my disposal. 



The egg of the Foolish Guillemot is notorious among that of all other birds, 

 for the variations it presents in size, shape, color and markings, but more es- 

 pecially the latter. From a large number of specimens, I found the average 

 size to be a very little over three inches and one-fourth in length, by two in 

 greatest diameter, while the greatest difference in length was five-eighths of an 

 inch. The diameter was much more constant, differing but one-fourth, thus 

 causing the variations in shape to be exceedingly great. The ground color of 

 the egg varies from a bright cream color to pure white, and then passing 

 through earthy, greyish, bluish and greenish-white to light green, is found of 

 every shade of the green to the very darkest. The more usual color is some 

 shade of green. The markings of the cream colored and white specimens are 

 usually spots and blotches of different shades of brown, pretty uniformly disposed 

 over the whole surface. Eggs of this type bear the closest resemblance to 

 those of Utamania torda^ but may usually be easily distinguished by their larger 

 size and more pyriform shape. The prevailing pattern of coloration among the 

 light earthy and bluish-white eggs is a ring of spots around the larger end ; 

 these very closely resemble those of Uria grylle, as far as color is concerned. 

 The green eggs present an infinite variety of patterns, which it would be use- 

 less to attempt to define ; they are oftener streaked than blotched, the lines 

 being angular and sharply defined, crossed and recrossed in the most fantastic 

 manner. Occasionally a pure white ^gg is met with, and I have seen some 

 that had much the peculiar pattern and appearance of those of Meleagris galli- 

 pavo. 



The " egging," or traffic in the eggs of the Murre as at present carried on, is 

 on systematic principles, and furnishes constant employment during the sum- 

 mer to men who make it their profession. The method pursued to procure the 

 eggs fresh is singularly unique, but entirely successful. They land on one of 

 the islands and break every egg that they can find upon it ; the next day, re- 

 pairing to the spot, all those eggs found cannot but be fresh. By collecting 

 these, of course the birds are prevented from sitting, and thus any quantity of 

 eggs may be procured. Notwithstanding the wholesale system of destruction 

 thus carried on against the birds, they are still to be found in prodigious mul- 

 titudes ; yet it is remarked by all those who have visited the coast for a num- 

 ber of years, that their numbers are slowly but surely decreasing under this 

 incessant persecution, which not even their myriads enable them to withstand. 

 I was informed that there is a law which forbids the collecting of the eggs, 

 but if so, it has very little practical efi'ect. 



The present species, as well as the U. ringvia and U. arra, is known to the 

 natives and fishermen as either the " Murre" or "Turre," the latter being per- 

 haps the more usual appellation. This name is also applied to the Mergulus 

 alle, which is known as the "Little Turre," or sometimes as the "Little 

 Noddie." On the coast of Maine it is also called " Ice-bird," 



A letter was read from Dr. Jas. C. Fisher, resigning his office as 

 Librarian of the Academy. 



On motion the resignation was accepted. 

 1861.] 18 




258 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



September 8d. 



Dr. Leidy in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publicatioa : 



" On the genus Podothecus, by Theodore Gill." 



" Description of a new generic type of Blennoids, by Theodore Gill." 



" Monograph of the Tridigitate Uranoscopoids, by Theodore Gill." 



"Synopsis of the Polynematoids, by Theodore Gill." 



September 10th. 

 Dr. Leidy in the Chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Rectification of the paper upon Hemiptera of the North Pacific 

 Exploring Expedition, by P. R. Uhler." 



" Homoptera of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, under 

 Commanders Rodgers and Ringgold, by P. R. Uhler." 



" Descriptions of four new species of Hemiptera, collected by the 

 North Western Boundary Survey, by P. R. Uhler." 



*' Nine new species of North American Limnobiadas, by R. Osten 

 Sacken." 



"Contributions to the Ophiology of Lower California, Mexico and 

 Central America, by E. D. Cope." 



September 17 fh. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled, " List of the Mol- 

 lusca inhabiting the neighborhood of Philadelphia, by Wm. M. Gabb." 



September 24<A. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings. 



On the genus PODOTHECUS. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences for April, 1861, a 

 very characteristic type of the family of Agonoids, recently discovered by Dr. 

 Kennerly, the Naturalist of the North-western Boundary Survey, has been 

 noticed. The following full and detailed description of the species is now 

 submitted. The analytical table of the family will exhibit the relations of the 

 genus to the other members of that group. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIE>^CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Dorsal fins two. I. Agoninje. 

 Body compressed and elevated towards the front. 

 Head contii aous with back, parallelopiped and compres- 

 sed like Trigla, Podotheci. 

 Dorsal fins separated ; first remote from nape, 1. Podothecus. 

 Head separated from back by a deep nuchal depression, Hypsagoni 

 Dorsal fins separated, 2. Hypsagonus. 

 Body elongated and not elevated, Agoni. 

 First dorsal behind nape. 



Breast granulated, 3. Hippocephalus. 

 First dorsal remote from nape. 



Lower jaw received within upper. Dorsal fins contiguous. 



Thoracic plates four, forming a square, 4. Agonus. 



Thoracic plates numerous, 5. Paragonus. 

 Jaws subequal. 



Body thick. Vomerine and palatine teeth, 6. Agonopsis. 



? Body compressed, 7. Leptagonus. 



Lower jaw longest. Dorsal fins contiguous, 8. Brachyopsis. 



Dorsal fin single, II. Anoplagonin;e. 



Teeth on the jaws alone, 9. Aspidophoroides. 



Teeth on the jaws, vomer and palatines, 10. Anoplagonus. 



Genus PODOTHECUS Gill. 



Syn. Podothecus Gill, Proo. Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila., vol. xiii. 

 p. 77, 1861. 



Body much compressed anteriorly and with the width subequal, or imper- 

 ceptibly decreasing to the caudal fin. TJie caudal peduncle is slender, sub- 

 equal and depressed. The dorsal outline is sigmoidally incurved towards the 

 peduncle. The breast is flattened, triangular, covered with a median and, 

 on each side, a lateral row of moderate plates ; the central plates are hex- 

 agonal. Head parallelopiped, much compressed, and with the width subequal. 

 Profile with a very decided oblique sigmoidal curve. Superciliary and occipi- 

 tal crests well developed and spinigerous. Temporal crests lateral. Snout 

 prominent, depressed, and with two spines on each side, one horizontal and 

 the other vertical or recurved. Mouth wholly inferior, with the periphery 

 oblong semi-oval. Lower jaw received within the upper. Teeth villiform, 

 present only on the jaws. Angles of mouth furnished with numerous barbels. 

 Dorsal fins separated by about three plates ; the first, commencing behind the 

 fourth pair of plates, is oblong but rather high, and sustained by about 

 nine slender spines. The ventral fins are closely approximated and received 

 in a longitudinal lanceolate groove. Each fin has apparently a spine and two 

 simple rays. 



PODOTHECCS PEEISTETH0S Gill. 



The form of this species is quite similar to that of a species of Peristethits or 

 Peristedion. The height is somewhat greatest just behind the bases of the 

 pectoral fins, where it equals the distance between the rostral spine and the 

 orbit ; thence it quite regularly diminishes, but with a slightly sigmoid dorsal 

 curve, the decrease being more rapid between the ends of the first and second 

 dorsal ; behind the latter it is much depressed and wider than high ; the 

 height very slowly diminishes towards the caudal. The greatest height equals 

 46-100 of the head's length ; that behind the first dorsal, 37-100 ; in front of 

 the anal, 32-100 ; and behind the second dorsal, 20-100. 



The width very regularly and slowly decreases towards the caudal. In front 

 of the bases of the pectorals it equals the height, or 46-100 of the head's 

 length ; behind the first dorsal it is less than the height at the same place, 

 1861.] 




260 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



equalling 31-100 of the length of the head ; hehinrl the second dorsal the width 

 is greater than the height, and equals 21-100 of the head. At the fifth plate 

 behind the latter the height is only equal to six- tenths of the width. 



The sides between the superior and inferior lateral ridges are vertical ; the su- 

 perior carina is straight and oblique to nearly the end of the second dorsal, and 

 is then horizontal ; the spines only become developed under the end of the first 

 dorsal ; they are small, compressed and acute. The inferior carina is straight 

 on the first five plates, thence oblique to the vertical of the anal fin, and after- 

 wards nearly horizontal ; its spines are like those of the superior carina. The 

 space between the ridges at their commencement equals a quarter of the 

 head's length, (25-100) ; that at the fifth plate of the lower carina, 15-100, 

 and that above the first anal rays, 18-100. Behind the dorsal and anal fins 

 they form nearly right angles with the dorsal and inferior surfaces of the 

 cnudal peduncle. The dorsal surface is nearly flat or slightly concave. The 

 width between the dorso-lateral carinse in front of the back is subequal, and 

 equal to a fifth of the head's length, (21-100) ; it there becomes gradually 

 narrow, and ends behind the second dorsal in an acute point, produced by the 

 convergence of the carinse. The width decreases more rapidly at the first than 

 the second dorsal. The spine of the carinse are most developed anteriorly and 

 are obsolete behind. 



The head has a parallelepiped form, like that of a Trigloid; its occipito- 

 nasal outline is sigmoidally curved : its inferior surface plane. Its height at 

 the nape equals 42-100 of its length ; behind the superciliary spine, 39-100 ; 

 thence the sigmoidal curve is very oblique, the curve being increased by the 

 development of the superciliary crests ; the spine in which each crest termi- 

 nates is moderate, compressed and recurved ; the lateral occipital carinse are 

 well marked, slightly divergent, and end in spines similar to the superciliary. 

 The head is widest at the opercular bones, where it equals 47-100 of the 

 length ; the sides are nearly vertical. The interval between the superciliary 

 cregts equals a fourth of the head's length ; that between the occipital spines, 

 24-100. 



The eyes are elliptical and of large size ; the distance of the orbit from the 

 end ot the rostral spine equals 47-100 of the length of the head ; the long 

 diameter of the orbit equals 26-100, and the short one 21-100 of the same. 



The suborbital bones are delicately waved and pectinated beneath, and have 

 a submarginal ridge. The great suborbital bone has at the middle of its ridge 

 a small, compressed, curved spine, from which granulated radiating strise 

 diverge on every side and cover the surface ; the height of the suborbital 

 equals 16-100 of the head's length, while its length is 29-100 of the same. 

 On the preceding bone is another smaller spine. The preoperculum is high, 

 and its margin sigmoidal ; its crest is above the horizon of the suborbital one, 

 well developed, and ends in an acute spine ; beneath the crest the bone is pro- 

 duced into an angle. Granulated radiating strise proceed above and beneath 

 from the commencement of the preopercular crest. The operculum is also 

 ridged above and covered with granulated rays. 



There are on each side two rostral spines ; the first is terminal, elongated 

 conical, straight and horizontal ; the posterior is some distance behind, smaller 

 and curved backwards. There are also two approximated curved frontal 

 spines on an elevated base, and with three rows of granulations proceeding 

 forward from each. 



The mouth is placed quite far back, and the lower jaw is shortest ; the front 

 of the latter is under or slightly behind the vertical of the prefrontal spines, 

 and at a distance from the rostral spine equal to 32-100 of the head's length ; 

 its periphery is semioval. 



The angles of the jaws are furnished with many fleshy tentacles, and there 

 are apparently smaller ones on the branchiostegal membrane. 



The abdomen has a small azygous almost oblong quadrangular plate in 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



front ; behind but not contiguous are two hexagonal ones, elevated in the 

 middle and with granulated rays ; still further behind, and in front of the 

 ventral furrow, is a fourth almost plain and transverse smaller plate. On 

 each side of the mesial row are Sve others ; the first meets the corresponding 

 one on the opposite side, and is interposed between the first and second me- 

 dian plates ; the fifth is smaller, and its angle only extends to the anterior 

 angle of the ventral furrow ; granulated rays diverge from or near the pos- 

 terior borders. 



The first dorsal fin commences behind the fourth pair of dorsal plates ; it is 

 oblong and placed between seven pairs of plates ; its fourth, fifth and sixth 

 spines are longest, and equal four-tentlis (40-100) of the head's length ; its first 

 three gradually increase, and its last three decrease ; all are slender. 



The second dorsal is separated from the first by three pairs of plates and is 

 placed between six ; it has seven rays, all of which are articulated ; the mar- 

 gin is decurved backwards ; the longest ray exceeds that of the first dorsal, 

 and the shortest is less than half. 



The anal fin commences at a vertical drawn midway between the two dor- 

 sals, and has eight rays, each ray corresponding to a plate ; all are simple and 

 articulated ; the third and fourth are longest, and equal four-tenths (40-100) 

 of the head's ; the first two rapidly increase. The margin behind is much 

 decurved, the last ray having only a third of the length of the longest. 



The pectoral fins are well developed, and reach behind to the vertical of the 

 last dorsal spine ; the angles are rounded ; each fin has fourteen simply ar- 

 ticulated rays. 



The ventral fins are closely approximated and received in a lanceolate far- 

 row ; each has a short spine and articulated rays, the external of which is 

 longest, and exceeds three-tenths of the head's length. 



The anus appears to be between the fifth pair of plates behind the pectoral 

 fins, and at the end of the ventral furrow. 



The number of rays is as follows : 



D. IX. 7. A. 8. P. 14. V. I. 2, 



The color in alcohol is yellowish or reddish brown, with a darker margin on 

 each plate. The rays of the pectoral fins were apparently banded at their base. 



A single specimen of this most interesting fish was obtained at Simeahmoo 

 by Dr. Kennerly. It is unfortunately in a very poor state of preservation, 

 the head being much injured and partly fallen to pieces, the caudal fin and 

 part of the peduncle lost, and the ventral fins have fallen out. Most of the 

 parts of the head and the ventral fins are, however, preserved in the same 

 bottle, and I have been thus enabled to'render a suflBciently detailed and exact 

 description. The specimen was probably about seven or eight inches long. 



Description of a new generic type of BLENN0ID3. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The present species was discovered by Dr. Kennerly, the Naturalist of the 

 North Western Boundary Survey, in the waters of Washington Territory, and 

 will be illustrated in the forthcoming Report on the Fishes of the western 

 coast of North America. 



Genus ANOPLARCHUS Gill. 



Body much elongated and compressed, with its height subequal. Scales 

 very small and imbedded in the skin. Lateral lines and mucous pores ab- 

 sent or rudimentary. Head small, compressed and suboval. Snout convex. 

 Eyes small. Mouth oblique and lateral. Teeth uniserial in each jaw, and 

 of nearly uniform size. Palate edentulous. Branchial apertures separated 

 by a moderate isthmus. Branchiostegal membrane with an acute emargina- 



18G1.] 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tion below and attached to the throat. Branchiostegal rays 5 — 5. Dorsal fin 

 low, entirely spinous. Anal fin unarmed. Caudal small, entire. Pectoral 

 fins moderate. Ventral obsolete. 



Type Anoplarchus purpurescens Gill. 



This genus is most nearly related to Murcenoides and Apodicthys, but is de- 

 cidedly distinct from each. 



It dififers from Murcenoides by the uniserial teeth of the jaws and the unarmed 

 palate, the attachment of the branchiostegal membrane to the throat beneath, 

 and the consequent restriction of the branchial apertures to the sides, and the 

 absence of anal spines as well as of ventral fins. 



The genus Apodicthyi agrees with Anoplarchus in the absence of the ventral 

 fins, and of palatine and vomerine teeth, but is readily distinguished from it 

 by the character of the dentition and by the presence of a large calamiform 

 spine behind the anus and separated from the anal fin, as well as by the con- 

 tinuity of the branchial apertures beneath. 



Anoplakchus pukpurescexs GiU. 



The general form resembles that of a Murcenoides or Apodicthys. The height 

 before the dorsal fin nearly equals a ninth of the total length, (11-100), and 

 its greatest height in front of the anus an eighth (12^-100) of the same. The 

 caudal peduncle behind the last dorsal spine is about a third of the greatest 

 height, or a twenty-fifth (4-100) of the length. 



The head, from the closed lower jaw to the opercular angle, forms about an 

 eighth (13-100) of the total length. The snout is convex ; the interval be- 

 tween the snout or rather symphisis of the upper jaw and the orbit forms 

 nearly a fifth of the length of the head ; the distance between the orbits nearly 

 equals a ninth. The diameter of the orbit equals the distance between the 

 snout and orbit. 



The dorsal fin commences above or slightly in advance of the pectoral fins, 

 and at the commencement of the second eighth of the total length. The length, 

 of most of the rays averages about a third of the head's length or a twenty- 

 fifth of the total. 



The anal fin commences immediately behind the anus ; it commences at a 

 distance from the snout equal to thirty-seven hundredths of the entire length. 

 The average height equals a third of the length of the head. 



The caudal fin is convex behind, and forms nearly a twelfth (8-100) of the 

 total length. 



The pectoral fins are normally developed, convex behind, and nearly equal 

 in length to half of the head, (6-100). 

 D. LVI. A. 41. C. 2, 7, 6, 2. P. 1, 11. 



The color of the species is dark purple. An oblique light purple band 

 crosses the cheek from the eye and is margined by a lighter line on each side, 

 which separates it before from the dark narrower band behind the supra- 

 maxillary bone, and another dark one behind which merges into the light 

 purple color of the rest of the head. The pectoral fin has a black spot at the 

 middle of its base. The caudal fin has several transverse light brown lines, 

 and a well defined one at its base ; near the root of the upper and of the lower 

 rays respectively, there is also a blackish dot, encircled by light brown. 



Total length, (3 8-10,). 100 



Body — Height before dorsal 11 



" before anus 12| 



" behind last dorsal spine 4 



Width at pectorals 6 



Head— Gieatest lengt'i 13 



Interval between snout and orbit 2^ 



Width between orbits l| 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Diameter of eye 2^ 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 13 



Length of first spine 2^ 



" second spine 4 



" spine over anus 4 



Anal — Distance from snout 37 



Height at third ray 4^ 



" at middle 4^ 



Caudal — Length 8 



Pectoral — Length 6 



Monograph of the Tridigitata TJIIANOSCOPOIDS. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the "Synopsis of the Uranoscopoids" recently published in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, the discovery of two new 

 species of the genus Dactyloscopus was noticed, and a promise was made to 

 describe them at another time. The present memoir is accordingly devoted 

 to the description of the three species of that genus now known and of an 

 additional species representing a fourth very distinct group of the same 

 family. 



The discovery of the last mentioned type has necessitated a revision of the 

 characters formerly given to the subfamilies of the Uranoscopoids, the form, 

 of the head presenting quite a decided difference. All of the species formerly 

 known were distinguished by the cuboid form of the head, the superior sur- 

 face of which was nearly flat ; the eyes were also entirely superior and uext to 

 the sides, and the cleft of the mouth was almost vertical. Such were the 

 characters common to all the species then known. But when engaged on the 

 present monograph, two fishes were found which were readily ascertained to 

 be most nearly allied to the Dactyloscopi, but which were distinguished from 

 them by the remarkable shape of the head. The bones are so modified that 

 instead of producing the normal cuboid form, they cause an elongated conical 

 one, the height and widtla gradually decreasing toward the snout. The interor- 

 bital area is also very slight on account of the excessive narrowness of the fron- 

 tal bones. Yet, notwithstanding such remarkable diiferences of form, none can 

 remain doubtful concerning the afi[inity of the species to the Daciijloscopi 

 The general form of the body, the squaraation, the character of the lateral 

 line, the fringed opercula and lips, the membranous extension of the suboper- 

 culum and interoperculum, the character of the fins and all other essential 

 characters are reproduced in the two forms. Tlie arguments that were 

 formerly adduced in favor of the pertinence of the Dactyloscopi to the same 

 family as the Leptoscopi are equally applicable to the newly discovered form. 

 The relative position of the dorsal and anal fins is even similar to that of the 

 Leptoscopi and difl'erent from that characteristic of the Dactyloscopi. Three 

 peculiar modifications of the elongated Uranoscopoid form are now known, 

 and the propriety of referring them to a family distinct from the compara- 

 tively short Uranoscopoids, with more or less mailed heads, is correspondingly 

 increased. But, for the present, all are still retained under the same family. 



The following diagnoses of the subfamilies and their genera are given so as 

 to distinguish them among the other groups. 



Subfamily DACTYLOSCOPINiE Gill. 



Dactyloscopinae Gill, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, 1859, p. 133. 

 " Gill, op. cit., 1861, p. 116. 



The body is moderately elongated. 



1861.J 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The scales are moderate or rather small, cycloid, with subcentral or slightly 

 eccentric nuclei, and with concentric striae. The lateral line runs for a short 

 distance anteriorly on the sides of the back, is then much deflected, and then 

 runs along the middle of the side to the caudal fin and is again deflected. 



The head is cuboid and nearly plane above, and covered with the smooth 

 and naked skin above as well as on the sides. The operculum is fringed be- 

 hind ; the preoperculum unarmed. The suboperculum and interoperculum 

 have membranous extended borders. 



The mouth is very oblique and nearly vertical. The lower jaw closes in 

 front of the upper, and its periphery is semioval. The membranous fold be- 

 tween the limbs of the lower jaw is well developed, and conceals the front of 

 the branchiostegal membrane. 



The dorsal fin commences near the nape, and is continued nearly to the 

 caudal fin ; its rays in front are simple ; the others are articulated. 



The anal fin commences under the anterior portion of the anal fin, 

 and is also much elongated and continued nearly to the caudal. The ven- 

 tral fins are approximated, and each is composed of three simply articulated 

 rays. 



The relation of this subfamily to the Leptoscopiuse has been previously ex- 

 posed. The difl'erence consists of the presence in the Dactyloscopi of only 

 three articulated rays to the ventral fins instead of one spinous and five 

 branched as in the Leptoscopinise. The dorsal of the latter is also as short or 

 shorter than the anal and commences some distance behind the nape ; in 

 Dactyloscopu^ the dorsal fin commences immediately behind the nape, and is 

 longer than the anal. The Dactyloscopinfe are confined to the tropical Ame- 

 rican seas, while the Leptoscopinas are represented in the seas around the 

 islands of Australia and New Zealand. 



Genus DACTYLOSCOPUS Gill. 



Dactyloscopus Gill Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, 1859, p. 132. 

 " Gill, op. cit., 1861, p. 117. 



The body is moderately elongated, its greatest height equalling about a sixth 

 or seventh of the extreme length. 



Head cuboid, oblong and nearly flat above. Eyes small and subcircular, 

 separated by a considerable space, the frontal bones being of moderate width. 



Mouth nearly vertical. Lower jaw not dilated beneath or emarginated in 

 front, and without barbels. Intralabial filament obsolete. 



Teeth villiform and only present on the jaws. 



Dorsal fin with its origin near the nape, and with its first ten or twelve rays 

 simple, and the rest articulated. Anal fin commencing under the anterior 

 part of the dorsal. 



Type. Dactyloscopus tridigitatus Gill. 



Dactyloscopus tkidigitatds Gill. 



Dactyloscopus tridigitatus Gill, Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, April, 1859, p. 132. 

 The greatest height is contained 14-100 times in the total length. The 

 head fr om the closed lower jaw to the end of the bony operculum forms 19-100 

 of the length ; its elevation above the inferior preopercular margin equals 

 11-19, and the height at the articulation of the lower jaw 9-19 of its length. 

 Its greatest width equals 10-19 and that behind the eyes 7-19 of the same. 

 The dorsal fin commences at the 18-lOOths of distance from the snout. The 

 caudal fin forms an eighth of the total length. The pectorals equal 16-100 of 

 the same. The anterior part of the lateral line runs through eleven scales, 

 is then deflected and runs very obliquely on four scales, and is thence con- 

 tinued along the fifth row from the back through thirty. 



[Sept. 




X 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



D. 12, 28. A. 2, 32. C. I. 1, 8, 1, I. P. 13. V. 3. 



The color appears originally to have been nearly uniform and whitish blue 

 or almost white on the trunk ; when the scales are lost the apparent color is 

 grayish, marbled or spotted with white. The head is whitish or grayish 

 above, variegated with coarse meandering darker lines, which partly also ex- 

 tend on the suborbital region and cheeks. The preoperculum, and other 

 opercular bones are mostly immaculate. The fins are also immaculate. 



The body is slender and very gradually and with much regularity declines 

 towards the caudal fin ; it is also much compressed, especially posteriorly. 

 The height is greatest at the front of the dorsal fin, and is there nearly equal 

 to a seventh (14-100) of the total length. The height behind the last dorsal 

 ray exceeds little more than a fourth of the greatest, and only equals a twenty- 

 fifth part (4-100) of the length. The thickness at the bases of the pectoral 

 fins is contained twelve times (8-100) in the length. 



The head is plane above and angulated at the sides of its superior surface. 

 From the tip of the closed lower jaw to the margin of the bony operculum it 

 constitutes nearly a fifth (19-100) of the extreme length. Its height between 

 the crown and the inferior margin of the preoperculum is much less than two- 

 thirds of its length (11-100 of the total). The height at the articulation of 

 lower jaw nearly equals a half of the length (9-100 of the total). The thick- 

 ness of the head is greatest close behind the preoperculum, and exceeds a half 

 of the length, or one-tenth (10-100) of the total ; it thence gradually dimin- 

 ishes to the obtuse snout ; behind the eyes, it equals seven-tenths of the great- 

 est width, or 7-100 of the total length. 



The eyes are moderate, circular and entirely superior. The diameter of 

 the orbit is contained more than six times in the head's length, and equals 

 3-100 of the total length. The distance between the eyes equals two-thirds 

 of the diameter, and the distance from the symphisis of the intermaxillaries a 

 diameter. 



The posterior border of the basal ridge of the preoperculum is nearly ver- 

 tical, and descends toward the angle, which is rounded. The width of the 

 preoperculum is greatest at the angle between the ridge and the free margin ; 

 it is there a half greater than the diameter of the eye (4^-100 of the total 

 length). Near the free margin of the preoperculum, there is a band of paired 

 pores. 



The dentary on its posterior part has three broad transverse channels. The 

 opercular fringe is composed of about fifteen distinct and free filaments. 



The dorsal fin commences at 18-100 of the length from the upper jaw, and 

 has forty or forty-one rays ; about twelve of these are simple and inarticulated, 

 while the others are articulated, and divided on each side of the mesial line 

 to the base, but so connected as to appear like simply articulated rays, especi- 

 ally from a lateral view. 



The anal fin commences under the sixth or seventh ray of the dorsal ; it 

 has about thirty-four rays ; the first two are simple and inarticulated ; the 

 rest are divided to their bases and articulated. 



The caudal fin is narrow, rather long, truncated behind, and furnished with 

 eight branched rays, two articulated and two simple ones. The fin forms 

 nearly an eighth (12-100) of the total length. 



The pectoral fins are acutely angulated ; the superior rays rapidly increase 

 towards the fifth, which is longest, and equals the sixth (16-100) of the total 

 length ; the rays beneath rapidly decrease, and the margin of the fin con- 

 verges toward the base, which extends very obliquely forward. 



The ventral fins are each composed of three articulated and stout rays, but 

 which are attenuated at the extremities. The external ray is shortest ; the 

 median is little longer than the internal, and equals an eighth (12-100) of the 

 total length. 



The scales are of moderate size and regularly imbricated. The lateral line 



mi.-] 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



runs along the second row of scales from the dorsal fin, through eleven scales, 

 is moderately deflected on the eleventh, runs obliquely through four scales, 

 and is again continued horizontally on the fifth row from the top through 

 about thirty or thirty-one scales. 



Total length, 3 inches, 100 



Greatest height 14 



Least height (behind last dorsal ray) 4 



Thickness at pectorals 8 



Head — Length 19 



Height over preoperculum 11 



Thickness at preoperculum 10 



" behind eyes 7 



Height at eyes 9 



Interorbital area 2 



Eye — Diameter 3 



Distance from snout 3 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 18 



Caudal— Length 12 



Pectoral — Length 16 



Ventral — Length 12 



The Dactyloscopits tridi giiaUis is readily distinguished among its congeners 

 by its color and the number of scales through which the anterior elevated por- 

 tion of the lateral line runs. The body is also comparatively slender, and the 

 head short and narrow. The dorsal likewise commenees at a greater distance 

 from the head than in its nearest relation. 



This species appears to be quite extensively distributed through the Carrib- 

 bean sea. Three specimens, from wnich the species was originally described, 

 were discovered at the island of Barbados. Another specimen is preserved in 

 the Smithsonian Institution that was obtained at Garden Key, near the coast 

 of Florida. Mr. Poey has also detected an individual of the same species on 

 the Cuban coast, and has presented it to the Smithsonian Institution. 



Dactyloscopus Poeyi Gill. 



The greatest height is contained 16-100 times in the total length. The 

 head forms a fifth of the same ; its height over the inferior preopercular border 

 equals a half (11-20) and that at the eyes 9-20 of the length ; its greatest 

 width exceeds a half of its length, and that behind the eyes 8-20. The dorsal 

 fin is distant a sixth (16-100) of its length from the snout. The anterior part 

 of the lateral line runs through thirteen scales, is then deflected through three 

 and afterwards runs along the fifth row from the back through about thirty- 

 two. 



D. 11, 31. A. 2, 32. C. 1, I. 8, I. 1. 



The color is reddish brown, dotted with darker above the lateral line. The 

 head is also blotched and dotted with darker, through which the ground color 

 is exhibited in streaks and blotches, especially around the eyes. The oper- 

 culum is variegated ; the other opercular bones nearly immaculate. 



The body has the same form as the Dactyloscopus tridi gitatiis, but is more 

 robust ; the greatest height exceeds a sixth of the total length, (16-100) ; the 

 height at the caudal peduncle, behind the last dorsal ray, equals a fourth of 

 the greatest length. The thickness at the breast equals two-thirds of the 

 greatest height, (11-100 of the length). 



The head is plane above and obtusely angulated at the sides of the plane. 

 Its length constitutes a fifth (20-100) of the total. Its height between the 

 crown and the inferior margin of the preoperculum exceeds half of its length, 

 or 11-100 of the total. That at the articulation of the lower jaw does not 

 equal half of the length, (9-100 of the total). The thickness of the head be- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



hind the preoperculiim exceeds a half of its length, or a ninth (11-100) of the 

 total ; that behind the eyes equals eight-elevenths of the greatest or 8-100 of 

 the total length. 



The eyes are similar to those of Dactyloscopus tridigitatiis. The diameter of 

 the orbit is contained nearly seven times (3-20) in the head's length, and 

 equals 3-100 of the total. The distance between the eyes equals two-thirds of ' 

 a diameter, and that from the snout a whole diameter. 



The preoperculum has the same form and proportions as Dacti/loscopus tri- 

 dicjitatus. The pores are very indistinct or obsolete. 



The opercular fringe is formed by about eighteen filaments, the lowest of 

 which are scarcely extended beyond the margin. 



The commencement of the dorsal fin is distant from the snout a sixth 

 (16-100) of the entire length. It has about forty-two rays, of which the first 

 eleven appear to be simple and inarticulated, and the rest are divided as the 

 typical species. 



The anal fin commences nearly under the sixth ray of the dorsal fin ; it has 

 about thirty-four rays, the first two of which are simple and inarticulated. 

 The rest are branched. 



The caudal fin has ten articulated rays, of which eight are branched and 

 two simple ones, one above and another below. 



The scales are of moderate size and regularly imbricated. Each one is short 

 or little oblong, with the nucleus little eccentric and with well defined con- 

 centric striae on the whole surface ; there are no radiating grooves or ridges. 

 The lateral line runs above through thirteen scales, is then deflected and con- 

 tinued very obliquely on three, and again runs thi-ough the fifth row from the 

 back along about thirty-two scales to the caudal fin. 



Total length, (2-6,) 100 



Greatest height 16 



Height behind last dorsal ray 4 



Thickness at pectorals.. •, H 



Head— Length 20 



Height at preoperculum 11 



Thickness at preoperculum 11 



" behind eyes 8 



Height at eyes 9 



Interorbital area 2 



Eyes — Diameter 3 



Distance from snout 3 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 16 



Caudal — Length, (assumed) 12 



This species is closely related to the Dactyloscopus tridigitatiis, but is readily 

 known by its color and the number of scales through which the anterior pai i 

 of the lateral line runs, as well as by its stouter and more robust body, its 

 longer and wider head and the less distance between the snout and the com- 

 mencement of the dorsal fin. The caudal fin is mostly destroyed, and the 

 above table of measurements has been calculated for the total length, on the 

 supposition that the caudal fin, as in the type of the genus, bears the propor- 

 tion to the entire length of twelve to a hundred. The pectoral and ventral fins 

 have been also mutilated. 



A single specimen of this species was obtained by my learned friend, the 

 Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the Royal University of 

 Havana. In testimony of my appreciation of his labors to elucidate the natu- 

 ral history of Cuba, I have dedicated the species to him. The specimen has 

 been presented to the Smithsonian Institution. 



Dactyloscopus pectoralis Gill. 

 The greatest height is less than a seventh (15-100) of the total length. The 

 1861.] 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



head forms more than a fifth (21-100) of the same ; its greatest height ahove 

 the preoperculum equals 12-21, and that at the articulation of the lower jaw 

 10-21 of its length. Its greatest width equals two-thirds (14-21), and that 

 behind the eyes more than one-third (8-21) of its length. The dorsal fin 

 commences at the eighteen-hundredths of the length. The caudal fin forms 

 '14-100 of the total length ; the pectoral 22-100. The anterior part of the 

 lateral line runs through thirteen scales, is deflected on three, and then con- 

 tinued along the fifth row from the back through twenty-four. 

 D. 12, 22. A. 2, 26. C. 1, 1, 4, 4, 1, 1. P. 12. V. 3. 



The color is a light brownish yellow, with dark spots on the back, arranged 

 in lines forming the outlines of about six quadrangular areas, from the angles 

 of^ which irregular lines proceed downwards and converge towards those de- 

 parting from the angles of the adjoining areas. Such is the pattern of colora- 

 tion, but it is subject to considerable irregularity. More scattered and irregu- 

 lar spots or dots are often present beneath the lateral line. The head is rather 

 lighter and sometimes suffused with pink above. A transverse band or blotch 

 divided in front is present between the orbits behind. Four rays also diverge 

 in pairs from each orbit ; one from the front ; a bifurcated one from the an- 

 tero-inferior angle ; and two from the posterior border. On the crown are two 

 dark spots. There is a transverse sinuated nuchal line. Behind and below 

 the orbit is a whitish area, with a dark spot before and behind. The upper 

 angle of the operculum is whitish, bounded in front by a dark line or spot. 



The height behind the nape is less than a seventh of the total length (15-100) . 

 That at the caudal peduncle behind the last dorsal ray equals a third of the 

 greatest, (5-100 of the length). The thickness at the bases of the pectorals 

 equals 12-100 of the length. 



The head is not so plane as in the Caribbean species, and the sides less 

 angulated. The length from the tip of the lower jaw to the end of the bony, 

 operculum constitutes more than a fifth (21-100) of the total. Its height 

 between the crown and the inferior margin of the preoperculum exceeds 

 twelve-hundredths (12-100) of the total length. The height at the articula- 

 tion of the lower jaw equals a tenth (10-100) of the same. The width of the 

 head behind the preoperculum equals a seventh (14-100) of the total length, 

 while the width behind the eyes, is eight-fourteenths of the greatest, or^8-100 

 of the length. 



The eyes are small, the diameter equalling a tenth (7-21) of the head's 

 length ; they are separated from each other by a space equalling a diameter, 

 and their distance from the upper jaw or snout is equal to a seventh (3-21) of 

 the head's length. 



The preoperculum has nearly the same form as that of Dactyloscopus tridi- 

 gitatus, but it is rather broader at the angle ; the pores are well developed. 



The opercular fringe is formed by about eleven or twelve free filaments. 



The dorsal fin commences at 18-100 of the length from the snout, and has 

 about thirty-four rays, the first twelve of which are apparently simple and 

 inarticulated. 



The anal fin commences nearly under the sixth or seventh dorsal ray, and 

 has about twenty-eight rays, the first two of which are simple. 



The caudal fin forms a seventh (14-100) of the total length. It has eight 

 branched rays, two simply articulated ones, and two simple, one above and 

 one below. 



The pectoral fins have twelve rays, the fifth of which is longest, but the 

 fourth and sixth are also much longer than the adjoining ones. The longest 

 exceeds in length a fifth (22-100) of the entire length. 



The ventral fins are similar in structui'e to those of its allies. The internal 

 ray is as long or longer than the median, and equals an eighth (12-100) of 

 the total length. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Total length, 1-7^, 100 



Greatest height 15 



Height behind last dorsal ray 5 



Thickness at pectorals 12 



Head — Length 21 



Height over preoperculum 12 



Thickness at preoperculum 14 



" behind eyes 8 



Height at articulation of lower jaw 10 



Interorbital area 2 



Eye — Diameter 2 



Distance from snout 3 



Dorsal — Distance from snout (symphisis) 18 



Caudal — Length 14 



Pectoral — Length , 22 



Ventral — Length 12 



This species is very distinct from the two West Indian species of the genus. 

 It is readily distinguished by its different proportions. The head is longer, 

 wider and higher than in its congeners ; the caudal fin and especially the pec- 

 torals are larger, the number of dorsal and anal rays less, and the number of 

 scales through which the posterior or median part of the lateral line runs is 

 different. It is also readily recognizable by its different colors. The size to 

 which it attains is much less, the average length being little more than an inch 

 and a half. 



Three specimens were obtained by Mr. John Xantus, at Cape St. Lucas, and 

 have been sent by that indefatigable naturalist to the Museum of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 



Subfamily MYXODAGNINiE Gill. 



The body is considerably elongated, the length being about ten times as 

 great as the height. 



The scales are moderate or rather small, cycloid, and with subcentral or 

 slightly eccentric nuclei and concentric striae. The lateral line at first is on 

 the side of the back, but is soon deflected and again runs in a straight line 

 along the middle of the sides towards the caudal fin ; then its end is again 

 deflected. 



The head is oblong or rather elongated, conical in profile, and more or less 

 transversely arched above. The skin is smooth. The operculum is fringed 

 behind. The preoperculum unarmed. The suboperculum and interoperculum 

 have moderate or rudimentary extended membranous borders. 



The mouth is moderately oblique and never subvertical. The lower jaw 

 is prominent. 



The membranous fold between the limb of the lower jaw is small or rudi- 

 mentary and only developed anteriorly. 



The dorsal fin is much elongated, but commences far from the nape, and is 

 as short as, or shorter than, the anal. It arises behind the vertical of the 

 anus. 



The anal fin is very elongated. 



The ventral fins are approximated, and each has three simply articulated 

 rays. 



This group is very closely related to the Dactyloscopinse, but differs so much 

 in the form of the head that its affinities at first might well be overlooked. 



Genus MYXODAGNUS Gill. 



The body is quite slender, the greatest height being contained about ten 

 times in the length. 



1861.] 




270 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Head rather elongated and acntely conical, about twice as long as high. 

 Eyes large and elliptical, and very closely approximated. The frontal bones 

 are extremely narrow. 



Mouth oblique. Lower jaw projecting much beyond the upper and furnished 

 with a short compressed and wide flap or barbel in front of the symphisis. 



Villiform teeth present only on the jaws. 



Dorsal fin behind the vertical of the anus, and furnished with simple and 

 articulated rays. Anal fin as long as or longer than the dorsal. 



MyXODAGNUS OPEKC0LARIS Gill. 



The body is highest in front of the dorsal fin, and nearly equals at that 

 place a tenth of the total length ; thence it regularly declines towards the 

 caudal fin, and, behind the dorsal, is less than a third of the height in front. 

 The width at the bases of the pectorals is equal to two-thirds of the greatest 

 height, or 6-100 of the length. 



The head is acutely conical and elongated ; from the tip of the lower jaw to 

 the end of the bony operculum it forms a sixth (17-100) of the entire length ; 

 from the front of the upper jaw to the same place, 16-100. Its greatest height 

 at the vertical of the preopercular margin exceeds a half (9-17) of its length ; 

 that behind the eyes more than a third, (6-17). The profile is nearly straight, 

 but very slightly concave in front of the eyes. The crown is transversely 

 arched and smooth. The width at the preoperculum equals 7-17 of its length ; 

 the width behind the eyes a quarter of the same. The frontal bones between 

 the eyes are exceedingly narrow, so that the orbits appear to be separated by 

 little more than a mere septum. 



The eyes are longitudinally elliptical and of large size. The long diameter 

 of the orbit nearly equals the thickness behind, or quarter of the head's length. 

 The distance between the snout or symphisis of the upper jaw and the orbit 

 equals three-fourths of a diameter. 



The posterior margin of the preoperculum is much less than the inferior and 

 nearly vertical ; the latter is oblique. The breadth is greatest at the angle . 

 The pores are obsolete. The postorbital or temporal ridge is nearly as long 

 as the diameter of the orbit. 



The opercular fringe is composed of six or seven short filaments. The mem- 

 branous extensions of the subopercular and interopercular bones are moderate 

 and rather stifi". 



The dorsal commences behind the vertical of the anus and the end of the 

 first fourth of the total length, and behind the vertical of the posterior margin 

 of the seventh scale of the lateral line. Its height at the middle equals a half 

 of the greatest height of the body ; there are thirty-six rays, none of which 

 appear to be divided, and the articulation is itself almost obsolete. 



The anal fin commences in front of the dorsal and before the end of the first 

 fourth (23-100) of the length ; about two rays are in advance of the dorsal. 

 The height at the middle equals seven-tenths of the greatest height of the 

 body. There are thirty eight rays, the first two of which appear to be simple, 

 and the rest are simply articulated. 



The caudal fin forms an eighth (12-100) of the total length. It has eight 

 articulated rays forked at its terminal half, two simply articulated rays and 

 two short simple ones. 



The pectoral fins are angulated behind by the extension of the sixth as well 

 as of the fifth and seventh rays. The superior four rapidly increase towards 

 the fifth. The margin of the fin beneath is much curved forwards, the rays 

 rapidly decreasing. The longest ray exceeds a fifth of the total. 



The ventral fins have each three simply articulated and rather stout rays ; 

 the median is longest and equals a third of the pectoral's, or 7-100 of the total 

 length. 



The scales are of moderate size, finely striated concentrically, and arranged 



[Sept, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 271 



in eleven rows on each side. The lateral line runs through, twelve on the 

 sides of the bai;k, is then deflected through three, and thence runs along the 

 fifth row from the back through thirty-six. 

 D. 36. A. 2, 36. C. I. 1, 8, 1, I. 



The color is a light yellowish brown, rendered darker on the back by con- 

 gregations of dark dots on the scales. There is a margaritaceous spot behind 

 and beneath the eye, and the operculum is also colored in the same manner. 



Total length, 2-3 100 



Greatest height 9J 



Height behind dorsal fin 3 



Thickness of pectorals 6 



Head — Length from lower jaw to bony operculum > 17 



" from upper jaw 16 



Height at preoperculum 9 



" behind eyes 6 



Thickness at preoperculum 7 



" behind eyes 4 



Eye — Diameter 4 



Distance from snout 3 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 25 



Anal — Distance from snout 23 



Caudal — Length 12 



Pectoral — Length 21 



Ventral — Length 7 



This species is a native of the waters of Lower California. Several speci- 

 mens were obtained by Mr. John Xantus at Cape St. Lucas, and are now pre- 

 served in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Synopsis of the POLYNEMATOIDS. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The family of Polynematoids has been recently established as now accepted, 

 and its limits very accurately defined by Dr. Giinther in his catalogue of the Ac- 

 anthopterygian fishes of the British Museum. The principal characteristics by 

 which its representatives can be at once recognized are the free filaments on 

 each side of the breast below the pectorals, the protuberant snout, distant 

 dorsal fins, and the abdominal position of the ventrals. The family charac- 

 ters in detail are the following : 



Family POLYNEMATOIDS Bleeker. 



Polynematoidse Gilnthcr, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c.,vol. ii. 

 Polynemidse partim Richardson, &c. 

 Percidee pt. Cuvier, &c. 



Body oblong or moderately elongated and highest over the anus, which is 

 subcentral. Caudal peduncle oblong and robust. Scales regularly imbricated, 

 generally ctenoid and muricated, and of moderate or rather small size, ex- 

 tending on the head and fins. 



Lateral line continous and nearly straight. Continued on the caudal fin. 

 Head oblong, moderate or rather small, compressed and slowly decreasing 

 in size towards the snout, which is high and protuberant. Eyes moderate or 

 large, and wholly or mostly anterior. Nostrils double. Suborbital bones very 

 low ; none articulated with the preoperculum. Opercular bones normally 

 developed. Suboperculum oblique and forming the posterior angle. Mouth 

 moderately oblique, and continued under the eyes behind. Teeth acute, 

 always present on the jaws, and generally on the palate. Branchiostegal 



1831.] 




272 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



membrane deeply and acutely emarginated beneath, and with a very narrow- 

 free border behind. Branchiostegal rays seven on each side. 



Dorsal fins two and entirely separated. The first with from five .to nine 

 spines ; the second quite remote from the first and short, with most of its rays 

 branched. Anal fin short or oblong. Caudal fin emarginated or forked. Pec- 

 toral fins inserted low on the humeral cincture, and normally developed ; 

 its angles are obtuse. Beneath and in front are many (3—14) free articulated 

 filaments. Ventral fins thoracic and under the spinous dorsal ; each has a 

 spine and five branched rays, the first or second of which is longest. 



The muciferous excavations and channels of the bones of the head are well 

 developed. 



The vertebral column is composed of about twenty-four or five vertebra, 

 nine or ten of which bear ribs. 



The stomach is coecal ; the pyloric coeca are present generally in moderate 

 number, rarely numerous. 



The air bladder is very variable in form, structure and development, and is 

 sometimes absent. Its modifications do not appear to be even coincident 

 with generic characters. 



The nearest allies of this family appear to be the Scisenoids. This affinity 

 is indicated by the presence in both of the muciferous excavations of the skull, 

 the extent of the squamation and the obliquity of the rows of scales, the weak- 

 ness of the dorsal and anal spines, &c. The number of vertebrae and the char- 

 acter of the intestinal canal are also nearly similar to those of the Scisenoids. 

 The most distinctive characters of the present family have been indicated in 

 the preliminary remarks. 



On the other hand, they resemble the Mugiloids by the interval between the 

 dorsal fins, and even in some degrees by the form, squamation and position of 

 the ventral fins. 



The following analytical table indicates the most distinctive features of 

 each genus. 



Anal twice as long as second dorsal. Preoperculum entire, Polynemi. 

 Palatine and pterygoid teeth. No vomerine teeth. Pec- 

 toral filaments 5, 1. Polynemus. 

 Second dorsal and anal fins equal. Preoperculum serrated, Trichidiontes. 

 Palatine, pterygoid and i Pectoral filaments 3—8, 2. Trichidion. 

 vomerine teeth. > Pectoral filaments about 14, 3. Polistonemus. 



Palatine teeth. No vomer- 1 pg^.toral filaments 10-11, 4. Galeoides. 

 me or pterygoid teeth. ) 



Group POLYNEMI Gill. 



Pinna analis pinna, dorsali longior, antice infra'pinnam dorsalem. Preoper- 

 culum inerme. 



Anal fin longer than the second, and with its anterior portion beneath it. 

 Preoperculum entire and not dentated. 



POLYNEMUS Gronovius. 



Polynemus Gronovius, Museum Ichthyologicum, p. 31, 1754. 



Pentanemus Artedi, in Seba's Locupletissimi Rerum Naturalium Thesauri ac- 



curata descriptio, &c., tom. iii. p. 74, 1758. 

 Pentanemus GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, vol. ii. p. 



330, 1860—61. 

 Pinna analis pinna dorsali duplo longior, Dentes velutini ossibus maxil- 

 laribus superior! inferiorique, palatinis et pterygoideis. 



Body oblong and moderately compressed, covered with, moderate scales. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Head oblong, with the snout projecting. Preoperculum unarmed. First dor- 

 sal fin above the pectorals, and sustained by eight spines ; second dorsal ob- 

 long. Anal fin elongated ; its anterior half is mostly opposite to the dorsal fin. 

 Pectoral filaments generally five and extremely elongated. 

 Type. Polynemus quinquarius. 



The genus Polynemus as now restricted is quite diflferent from that called by 

 the same name by recent naturalists, its type not having been known to Cu- 

 vier and Valenciennes, and disagreeing in its generic characters with all the 

 species referred by them to that genus. The present has the same limits as 

 Pentanemus of Giinther, biit that name cannot be preserved. 



The name of Polynemus was first introduced into Science by Gronovius, and 

 must be retained for this genus, while almost all of the species which have 

 been described by Cuvier and Valenciennes and subsequent authors as Poly- 

 nemi, should be placed in a genus called Trichidion. Gronovius has, with his 

 usual ability and accuracy, characterized the genus in his "Museum Ichthyo- 

 logicum," and has referred to Pentanemus, a manuscript name of Artedi, which 

 he has refused to adopt on account of its too exclusive character, and because it 

 does not apply to a species figured by Edwards which was supposed to belong 

 to the same genus.* Gronovius has only described one species, which is the 

 same as that known by Artedi, whose description and figure were published 

 four years afterwards in the great Thesaurus of Seba. Gronovius indeed al- 

 ludes, at the end of his description of that species, to the fish of Edwards, but 

 the genus was established more especially for the species described, and was 

 intended to supersede Artedi's unpublished name. His must be, therefore, 

 evidently retained for the species described, while Artedi's must be considered 

 as a synonyme. In no case could that of Polynemus be retained for the ma- 

 jority of the Polynematoids, for Klein had previously formed a genus to which 

 he had given the name of Trichidion, which included such species. 



Polynemus quinquarius Linn. 



Polynemus Gronovius. 



Pentanemus Artedi. 



Polynemus quinquarius Linn., Systema Naturse, vol. i. p. 521. 



Polynemus Artedii Bennett, Proc. of the Committee of the Zoological Society 



of London, vol. i. p. 146. 

 Polynemus macronemus Pel. Bijdragen tot de dierkunde, vol. i. pp. 9, 10, pi. vi. 

 Habitat. — West Indian seas and the western coast of Africa. 



Group TRICHIDIONTES Gill. 



Pinna dorsalis analisque subsequales, oppositae. Preoperculum armatum. 



Dorsal and anal fins nearly equal and opposite to each other. Preopercu- 

 lum armed. 



* Ob nimis strictam CI. Artedii denominationem, nomen Penfanemi displicet, quum sub 

 eodem Genere militat Paradisace piscis Eduardt,c\ii septem Appendices ad Pinnas Pec- 

 toris, qui hinc inscribendus esset i/f/jtaTiftmTys ; verum ad evitandas plures confusioHes, 

 nomine parum generaliori Polynemi nimirum, insignire non dubitavi. Nomen autem 

 compositum est ex ttoku; and vifxx. filum, utpote a parte inferiore Pinnarum Pectoralium 

 ossirula utrinque continet, quae in aliis piscibus insolita sunt. 



t Polynemus macrophthalmus Bleeker, Acta Socictatis Indo-Nederlandica, voi. v. Ze- 

 vende Bijdr. ichth. Sumair. p. 10. 



Habitat. — Sumatra, 



The description is unknown to me, not having yet seen the fifth volume of the Acta. 



1861.] 19 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



TRICHIDION (Klein.) 



Tricliidiou Klein, Historise Piseium Naturalis promovendae missus quintus, p. 

 28, 1749. 



Polynemus sp. Gronovius, Linn., auct. 



Polydactylus Lac^pMe, Histoire Naturelle. 



Tringa sp. Forster. 



Polynemus Giinther, Catalogue of the Aoantliopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii. 

 p. 319. 



Trichidion Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North Ame- 

 rica, p. 40. 

 Dentes velutini maxillis duobus et ossibus vomerino, palatinis et pterygoid eis. 



Filamenta pectoralia 3 — 8. 



Body oblong, covered by scales of moderate size. H|aad oblong, and with a 

 protuberant snout. Preoperculum serrated. Both jaws, the vomer, and the 

 palatine and pterygoid bones armed with villiform teeth. First dorsal fin 

 placed above the ventral fins, and sustained by seven or eight spines. Second 

 dorsal and anal fins oblong, opposite and nearly equal. Pectoral filaments in 

 moderate number, varying from three to eight in the known species. 



Type. Trichidion Plumieri. 



Trichidion includes all the species described by Cuvier and Valenciennes 

 under the name of Polynemus, with the exceptions of their Polynemus dekadac- 

 tylus and P. enneadactylus. Those fishes belong apparently to the same species, 

 and have been united by Dr. Giinther under the name of Galeoides polydac- 

 tylus. The following is a list of the species described. 



Species with eight pectoral filaments. 



Trichidion octonemcs. 



Polynemus octonemus Girard, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Phila., 1858, p. 167. 

 Habitat. — Texas. 



Trichidion octofilis. 



Habitat. — Atlantic coast of North America. 



Species with seven pectoral filaments. 



Trichidion paradiseus. 

 Polynemus paradiseus Linn., Systema Natun-e, vol. i. p. 401. 

 Polynemus Gronovius, Zoophylacium ? sp. 398. 

 Polynemus risua Hamilton, {Buchanan), account of the Fishes of the Ganges? 



p. 228. 

 Polynemus toposui Hamilton, (Buchanan), op. cit., p. 232 ? 

 Polynemus aureus Hamilton, (Buchanan), op. cit., p. 232. 

 Polvnemus longifilis Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des poissons, torn. iii. p. 365, 



tom. vii. p. 512. 

 Habitat. — East Indian seas and the mouths of rivers. 



Trichidion dubics. 



Polynemus dubius Blceher, Enumeratio Piseium hucusque in Archipelago 



Indico observatorum, p. 39. 

 Habitat. — Sumatra and Borneo. 



Trichidion macronemus. 

 Polynemus macronema Bleeker, Natuurkuudij Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch 



Indie, iii. p. 419, 1852. 

 Polynemus Borneensis Ble(ker, Enumeratio Piseium hucusque in Archi- 

 pelago Indico observatorum, &c., p. 39. 

 Habitat. — Coast and rivers of Borneo, 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Trichidion oligodon. 

 Polynemus oligodon Gilnther, Catalogue of the Acantliopterygian Fisb.es, 



&c., vol. ii. p. 322. 

 Habitat — Atlantic coast of tropical America. 



Tkichidion Plitmieri. 

 Polynemus paradiseus Block, Naturgeschiclite der Ausliiudisclien Fische, 



torn. xii. p. 28, tab. 402. 

 Polydactylus Plumieri Lac^pide, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. v. pi. xiv. 



fig. 3. 

 Polynemus Americanus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 393. 

 Trichidion Plumieri Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast of 



North America, p. 40. 

 Habitat. — Caribbean Sea and perhaps the eastern coast of North America. 



Trichidion multiradiatcs. 



Polynemus multiradiatus Gilnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 



&c., vol. ii. p. 324. 

 Habitat. ^Q,ln.{ne?,e seas. 



Trichidion HEPTADACTyLus. 

 Polynemus heptadactylus Cm. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. iii. 



p. 390. 

 Habitat. — East Indian seas. 



Trichidion melanochir. 



Polynemus melanochir Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. vii. p. 513. 

 Habitat. — East Indian seas. 



Species with six pectoral filaments. 

 Trichidion hexanemus. 



Polynemus hexanemus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. iii. p. 389. 

 Habitat. — East Indian seas. 



Trichidion Pfeifferi. 



Polynemus Pfeifferi Bleeher, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch 



Indie, iv. p. 249, 1853. 

 Habitat.— ~?>e& of Friaman, Sumatra, 



Trichidion sextarids. 



Polynemus sextarius Block, Systema Ichthyologiae, Sckneid. ed. p. 18, tab. iv. 

 Habitat — East Indian seas. 



Trichidion xanthonemos. 



Polynemus xanthonemus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. vii. 



p. 517. 

 Habitat. — Coast of Coromandel. 



Trichidion appkoximans. 



Polynemus approximans Lay 4' Bennett, Beechey's Voyage to the Pacific, 



Zoology, p. 57. 

 Habitat. — Western coast of Mexico. 

 Trichidion kdrit. 



Polynemus kuru Bleeker, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch In- 

 die, deel iv. p. 609, 1853. 

 Habitat. — Sea of Ternate. 

 Trichidion diagsammiccs. 



Polynemus diagrammicus Bleeher, Bijdrage tot de kennis der Percoiden van 

 den Malaijo-moluskschen Archipel, p. 60, in Verhandelingen van bet 

 Bataviaasch Genootschap, deel xxii« 

 Habitat. — Java. 



1861.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OV 



Tkichidion sexpilis. 



Polynemus sexfilis Cuv. et Vol., Hist. Nat. des Poissona, torn. vii. p. 515. 

 Habitat.— Isle of France. 



Species with Jive pectoral filaments. 



TrICHIDION INDIC0S. 



Indian Polyneme. | gj^ General Zoology, vol. v. pt. i. pp. 226, 381. 



Polynemus indicus. J ' ^-^ ' 



Polynemus sele Hamilton, (Buchanan), Account of the Fishes of the Ganges, 

 pp. 226, 381. 



Polynemus uronemus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 385, 



Polynemus ploteus O'Reilly, Calcutta Journal of Nat. Hist. vol. iii. p. 450. 



Polynemus gelatinosus McClelland, Calcutta Journal of Nat. Hist. vol. iii. 

 p. 181. 



Habitat. — East Indian seas and Australia, (Gunther.) 



The preceding appear to be the only names under which this species has 

 been described. The names of Polynemus sele, P. plebeius, P. lineatus and P. 

 gelatinosus have been so recorded in the synonymy by some authors as to lead 

 to the inference that they had been applied to as many nominal species by 

 McClelland. That Gentleman, however, expressly stated that they were syno- 

 nyms of one species for which he proposed the name of P. gelatinosus. 



Teichidion taemiatus. 



Polynemus taeniatus Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &c., vol. ii. p. 526. 



Polynemus lineatus Giinther, op. cit., vol. ii., p, 327, (not Polynemus line- 

 atus LacipMe.) 



Habitat. — Seas of Amboyna and Guatalcana. 



Tkichidiok microstomus. 



Polynemus microstomus Bleeher, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Neder- 



landsch Indie, vol. ii. p. 217. 

 Habitat. — East Indian Archipelago. 



Trichidion plebejus. 



Polynemus plebejus Linn., Systema Naturae, Gmelin ed., p. 1401. 

 Polynemus lineatus Lac^phde, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. v. pi. xiii. fig, 2, 

 Nilotic polyneme Shaw, General Zoology, vol. v. pt. 1, p. 151. 

 Trigla Asiatica Forster, Descriptiones Animalium, &c., curante Lichtenstein, 



p. 236, 1844. 

 Habitat. — East Indian seas. 



Species with four pectoral filaments. 

 Teichidion tetradacttlcs. 



Four fingered polyneme, » gj^ q ^ Zoology, vol. v. p. 155, 1804, 



Polynemus tetradactylus, ) ' "'" r i 



Polynemus teria Hamilton, Account of the Fishes found in the river Ganges, 



&c., pp. 224, 381. 

 Polynemus salliah, ) Cantor, Journal of the Asiatic Society, vol. v. 

 Polynemus quadrifilis, ) p. 166. 

 Habitat. — East Indian seas. 



Teichidion quadrifilis. 



Polynemus quadrifilis Cuv. et Val., Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, tom. lis. 



p. 390, vii. p. 518, pi. 68. 

 Habitat. — Western coast of Africa. 



Species with three pectoral filaments. 



Trichidion tridacttlps. 



Polynemus tridactylus Bleeher, Bijdrage tot de feennia der Percoiden van 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



den Malaijo-molukschen Archipel, p. 57, (in Veihandelingen van bet 

 Bataviaasch Genootschap, del xxii. 

 Habitat. — Seas of Batavia. 



POLISTONEMUS GUI. 

 Polynemus sp. Schlegel, Pel., Bleeher, Guniher. 



Denies velutini maxillis ambabus et ossibus vomerino, palatinis et ptery- 

 goideis. Filamenta pectoralia cerciter 14. 



Body oblong, covered with small scales. Head oblong, with the snout pro- 

 jecting. Preoperculum serrated. Both jaws, the vomer, palatine and ptery- 

 goid bones provided with villiform teeth. First dorsal fin above the pectorals, 

 and furnished with seven or eight spines. Second dorsal and anal fins oblong, 

 opposite and nearly equal. Pectoral filaments numerous (about fourteen) 

 and much elongated. 



The present genus is closely allied to Trichidion, but is sufficiently distin- 

 guished by the greatly increased number of the pectoral filaments. The 

 scales are also considerably smaller than those of the Trichidions. 



POLISTONEMUS MDLTIFILIS Gill. 



Polynemus multifilis Schlegel, Fauna Japonica Pisces, p. 29, (note) ; ib. in 



Bijdragen tot de dierkunde, vol. i. p. 11, pi. vi. 

 Polynemus quatuordecimalis Pel., Bijdragen tot de dierkunde, vol. i. p. 10. 

 Polynemus polydactylus Bleeher, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Neder- 



laudsch Indie, Jahrgang iii. 1852, p. 417. 

 Habitat. — River and coast of Borneo. 



GALEOIDES Giinther. 



Galeoides Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii. 



p. 332. 

 Polynemus Vahl, Block, Cuv. et Val. 



Dentes velutini solum maxillis ambabus et ossibus palatinis. Filamenta 

 pectoralia cerciter 10 vel 11. 



Body oblong and compressed, covered with moderate or rather large scales. 

 Head oblong, with the snout high and obtuse. Eyes large. Preoperculum 

 serrated. Both jaws and the palatine bones armed with villiform teeth ; the 

 vomer and pterygoid bones are edentulous. First dorsal fin above pectorals, 

 sustained by about eight spines. Second dorsal and anal oblong, opposite 

 and nearly equal. Pectoral filaments in moderate number, generally about 

 nine or ten. 



Galeoides is distinguished by the absence of vomerine and pterygoid teeth, 

 and by the moderate size of the anal fin. Cuvier and "Valenciennes have des- 

 cribed two nominal species with those characteristics distinguished by the 

 presence of nine or ten pectoral filaments. Dr. Giinther has considered them 

 as identical, and as there is every probability that, where the number is so 

 increased as it is in this genus, there should be a slight variation in the num- 

 ber in the same species, we have concluded to adopt his views. We have only 

 seen the variety or species with nine filaments. 



Galeoides POLYDACTViiUS Giinther. 



Polynemus polydactylus Vahl, in Skriv. Naturh. Selsk, vol. iv. p. 158. 

 Polynemus enneadactylus Cuv. et Val, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. iii. 



p. 392. 

 /? Polynemus decadactylus Block, Naturgeschichte der Ausliindischen Fische, 



taf. cccci. 

 Habitat. — Western coast of Africa. 



1861.] 




278 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



« 



Synopsis of the Eastern American Polynematoids. 



PoLYNEMua Q0INQFAEIUS Linn. •• 



Synonymy. 



Polynemus Gronovius, Museum Ichthyologicum, vol. i. p. 31, No. 74. 



Pentanemus Artedi, in Seba^s Locupletissimi Rerum Naturalium Thesauri ac- 

 curata Descriptio, p. 74, pi. xxvii. fig. 2. 



Polynemus quinquarius Linn., Systema Naturae, ed. x. torn. i. p. 317, 1758. 

 " " Linn., Systema Naturse, ed. xii. torn. i. p. 521, 1766. 



Le Pentadactyle Daubenton et Haiiy, Encyclopedia Methodique, torn. iii. pp. 292, 

 314, 1787. 



Le Pentadactyle (P. quinquarius) Bonnaterre, Tableau Enoyclopedique et Me- 

 thodique, &c., Ichthyologie, p. 182, pi. 74, 1788. 



Polynemus quinquarius Linn. Systema Naturae Gmelin, ed. (tom. i. pt. iii.) 

 p. 1400. 1788. 

 " " Artedi, Genera Piscium Walhaum, ed. p. 630. 1792. 



" *' Block, Systema Ichthyologise, Schneider ed. p. 19, 



1801. 



Le Polyneme pentadactyle ) Lac^pMe, Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, tom. 



Polynemus quinquarius ) v. pp. 412, 415, 418, 1803. 



Seban Polyneme ^ | gj^^^ General Zoology, vol. v. p. 149, 1804. 



Polynemus qnmquarius ) °"^ ' x- j 



Polynemus Artedii Bennett, Proc. of the Committee, &c., of the Zoological 



Society of London, pt. i. p. 146. 

 Polynemus macronem^is Pel., Bijdragen tot de dierkunde, vol. i. pp. 9, 10, 



pi. vi. 

 Polynemus quinquarius, Catalogue of Fish, collected and described by Grono- 

 vius, now in the British Museum, p. 176. 

 Pentanemus quinquarius Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 

 &c., vol. ii. p. 331, 1860. 



D. VL 11. L 15. A. n. 30. 



The lateral line runs through seventy or more scales ; above are six rows, 

 and below seventeen rows. 



There are five very long pectoral filaments, their length being twice as great 

 as that of the body. 



If the American and African representatives of this genus have been cor- 

 rectly referred to one species, the geographical range of that one is very wide. 

 The Jiabitat of the species was given neither by Artedi in the Thesaurus of 

 Seba, nor by Gronovius in the Museum Ichthyologicum. It was first said to in- 

 habit the American seas by Linnseus in the tenth edition of his Systema 

 Naturae, and the same locality is given by Gronovius in a work that was long 

 unprinted; but which has been recently published by the British Museum. 

 If the American and African species are distinct, Bennett's name of Polynemus 

 Artedii must be therefore retained for the latter. Bennett alluded to the dis- 

 crepancies between the figures and descriptions of Gronovius and Artedi, 

 and the characters of the African species, but as Dr. Giinther, with specimens 

 from both localities before him has unhesitatingly united them under one, 

 without comment, it is probable that there is no real diflerence. The species 

 may therefore for the present be combined. 



Trichidion oligodon Gill. 

 Synonymy, 



Polynemus oligodon Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c. 

 p. 332. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



Doubtful Synonymy. 



Polygnemus virinicus Linn., Systema Naturae, ed. x. torn. i. p. 317. 



" " Linn., Systema Naturae, ed. xil. torn. i. p. 521. 



Le Mango Daubenton et Ilaiiy, Encyclopfedie Methodique, torn. iii. pp. 244, 314. 

 Le Mango (P. virginicus) Bonnaterre, Tableau Encyclopedique et Methodique, 



&c., Ichtliyologie, p. 182. 

 Polyuemus virginicus Linn., Svstema Naturae, Gmelin ed. (torn. i. pt. iii.) 

 •p. 1400. 1788. 



" " Artedi, Genera Piscium, Walbaum ed. p. 630. 1792. 



" " Block., Syst. Ichthyologiae, Schneider ed. p. 19. 1801. 



Le Polyneme mango {Lac^p&de Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, tom. v. pp. 

 Polynemus mango \ 413, 417, 418. 1803. 

 Virginian Polyneme Shaw, General Zoology, vol. v. p. 156. 

 D. Vril. 1, 13. A. II. 15. 



Tlie lateral line runs through seventy scales ; above it there are seven 

 rows and beneath are fourteen. There are seven pectoral filaments of moder- 

 ate length, and nearly coterminal with the pectoral fins. The villiform teeth 

 of the palatine and pterygoid bones form a narrow baud. The body is uniform 

 silvery. The margins of the pectoral fins and top of the first dorsal are black, 

 and the rest more or less minutely dotted with black, (Gnnther.) 



This species has quite a large geographical range, having been discovered 

 on the southern coast of Brazil (at Rio Janeiro) and at the West Indian 

 island of .Jamaica. It is perhaps also found on the coast of the Southern 

 United States. Its radial formula better agrees with that assigned by Lin- 

 naeus to his Polynemus virginicus than does the Polynemus Plumieri. It does 

 not, however, appear to be admissible to retain the Linnsean name for the spe- 

 cies, as there is much uncertainty about it, and the description of Linnaeus 

 is incorrect, a pointed tail being assigned to it. Such a character is almost 

 impossible in a fish having the form of a Polynemus. 



Tkichidion Plumieki Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Piracoaba Marcgrave, Historia Naturalis Brasilise, p. 176. 



" Willoughby, Hist. Piscium. (Lib. iv.) p. 204, tab. N. 13, f. 3. 1686. 



Trichidion Klein, Historia Piscium Naturalis promovendae Missus quintus, 



p. 29. 1749. 

 Polynemus paradiseus ) Block, Naturgeschichte der Ausliindischen Fische, 

 Der Paradisfisch ) tom. xii. p. 28, taf. ccccii. (excl. syn.) 1793. 



Polynemus paradiseus Block, Systema Ichthyologiae, Schneider ed. p. 18. 

 Polydactylus Plumieri Lac, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. v. p. 419. 

 Paradise Polyneme (part) Shaw, General Zoology, vol. iv. p. 147, pi. 118, 

 Plumier's Polyneme Skaw, op. cit. vol. iv. p. 157. 1804. 

 Polynemus americanus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. iii. p. 393. 

 " " Storer, Synopsis of the fishes of North America, p. , 



ib. in Memoirs of the American Academy of 

 Arts and Sciences, vol. ii. p. 300. 1846. 

 " " (ScAomfeM?-^/!, History of Barbados, p. 697. 1848. 



" " Hill, Catalogue of the Fish of .Jamaica. 



" " Guichenot, Hist, physique politique et Naturelle de 



Pile de Cuba, p. 44. 1853. 

 Polynemus Plumieri GUnther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, 



vol. ii. p. 321. 

 Trichidion Plumieri GUI, Catalogue of the Fishes of North America. 

 D. Vni. I. 12. A. II. 12—13. 



The lateral line runs through about sixty scales or less ; above it, there are 

 six rows, and beneath, ten. 



1861.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The seven pectoral filaments are moderately long, and nearly coterminal 

 with the fins. The villiform teeth of the palatine and pterygoid bones form 

 a broad band. The pectoral fins are black. 



The Trichidion Plumieri is generally distributed through the Caribbean sea, 

 and appears to be there the most abundant species. Its claim to be con- 

 sidered as an inhabitant of the coast of the Southern United States is rather 

 doubtful. 



Tkichidion octofilis Gill. 



D. VIII. I. 11. A. II. 14. 



The lateral line runs through sixty scales ; there are six rows above and 

 ten below. 



The eight pectoral filaments are moderately elongated ; the longest reaches 

 midway between the two dorsal fins. The color is apparently a nearly uni- 

 form silver. The vertical fins, and especially the first dorsal, are punctulated 

 with black. The pectoral fins are quite black. 



The present species has been only found at New York. 

 Trichidion octonkmus Gill. 

 Synonymi/. 

 Polyuemus octonemus Girard, Proceed, of the Academy of Natiiral Sciences of 

 Phila., 1858, p. 167. 

 " " Girard, United States and Mexican Boundary Survey, 



Ichthyology, p. 19, pi. x. figs. 5-9. 

 *' " Gmther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 



vol. ii. p. 320. 



D. VIII. I. 12. A, II. 13. 



The lateral line runs through sixty or sixty-two scales ; the scales them- 

 selves are arranged in seventeen longitudinal rows, of which six are above and 

 ten beneath the lateral line. 



There are eight pectoral filaments, the upper and longest of which extend 

 behind the first rays of the anal fin. The color of the body is silvery on the 

 sides, and light brownish yellow on the back above the lateral line. The fins 

 are whitish and immaculate. 



This very distinct species has been as yet only detected in Texas. 

 Description of Trichidion octojilis, a new species. 

 Trichidion octofilis Gill. 



The body has the same ordinary form and degree of elongation as its con- 

 geners. The greatest height surpasses a quarter of the entire length from the 

 snout to the end of the median caudal rays (27-100) ; the least height of the 

 caudal peduncle does not quite equal an eighth of the total length (12-100). 



The length of the head exceeds a qiiarter of the total (26-100), and 

 is much greater than its height. The snout is much produced ; the distance 

 between its extremity and the anterior margin of the orbit is equal to a sixth 

 or seventh of the length of the head (4-100) ; that between the snout and the 

 margin of the preoperculum above its angle equals seventeen twenty-sixths 

 of the same (17-100). The eyes are large ; the longitudinal diameter of the 

 orbit is equal to more than a quarter of the head's length (7-100). The inter- 

 orbital area equals the orbit's diameter. The front of the lower jaw is at the 

 vertical from the anterior border of the eye. The upper maxillary, as in 

 all the species of the family, passes far behind the orbit, and is contained 

 nearly two and two-third (2.8-11) times in the head's length. The preoper- 

 culum has a larger spine at its angle, and its posterior margin is pectinated. 



The first dorsal fin is subfalcate ; it commences behind the vertical from the 

 seventh scale of the lateral line ; the length of its base nearly equals a ninth 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 281 



of the total (15-100) ; its first spine is, as usual, rudimentary ; its second and 

 third are nearly equal, and each is contained six and two-third times in the 

 total length (11-100) ; its last spine is less than a third as long as the second. 

 The second dorsal has a longer base than the first (13-100) ; its longest ray 

 exceeds 6| of the total length (15-100) ; its last one exceeds a fifteenth of the 

 same (6^-100). The interval between the two dorsals is nearly equal to a 

 sixth of the total length (16-100). 



The anal fin is subfalciform like the second dorsal ; its length nearly equals 

 a sixth of the total (16-100) and the interval between the dorsal fins; its 

 longest ray, when entire, probably equals the same (in specimen (14-000), 

 and the last a half of it. 



The caudal fin has the usual form ; its median rays equal a tenth (10-100), 

 and its longest nearly two-sevenths (28-100) of the total length. 



The pectoral fins are also proportioned like those of the other species ; their 

 greatest length exceeds a fifth (21-100) of the total. 



There are eight pectoral filaments ; the second superior one is slightly 

 longest, and extends nearly to the vertical from the middle of the interval 

 between the Viorsal fins ; its length nearly equals two-sevenths (28-100) of 

 the total ; the inferior or shortest has about half the' length of the longest 

 (14-100). 



The ventral fins are situated under the anterior or median spines of the 

 first dorsal; the length of the spine little exceeds a seventeenth (6-100) of 

 the total ; that of the external branched ray nearly equals a ninth (11-100), 

 and that of the interval a tenth (10-100) of the same. 



The radial formula follows : 



1st. D. VIII. 2d. D. I. 11. A. II. 14. 



The lateral line runs through about sixty scales ; there are six rows above, 

 and apparently ten below. 



The color appears to have been silvery. The vertical fins, especially the 

 first dorsal, are punctulated with black. The pectoral fins are almost totally 

 black. 



Total length 7| inches 100 



Greatest height 27 



Least height 12 



Length of head 26 



Distance between snout and preoperculum 17 



" " " orbit 4 



Diameter of orbit 7 



Distance between orbits ; 7 



Length of first dorsal fin 11 



" second spine 15 



" last spine 4J 



Length of second dorsal fin 13 



" longest ray 15 



" last ray 6J 



Distance between dorsals 16 



Length of anal fin 16 



" longest ray 14 



" last ray 8 



Length of central caudal rays 10 



" longest caudal rays 28 



Length of pectoral fins 21 



" longest pectoral filament 28 



" shortest pectoral filament 14 



Length of ventral spine 6 



" external ventral ray 11 



" internal ventral ray , 10 



1861.] 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A single specimen of this new species was obtained several years ago at New 

 York, and is now in the possession of Mr. J. Carson Brevoort, to whom I am 

 indebted for the privilege of describing it. The species is readily distinguished 

 from all its congeners, except Trichidion octonemus, by the number of its pec- 

 toral filaments. From that species, it is very distinct, the color being quite 

 different and the pectoral filaments themselves more elongated. Its affinity 

 with the Trichidion Plamieri is greater, its color being nearly similar, but that 

 species is distinguished from the present by the number of its filaments and 

 its proportions. 



Homoptera of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition under Com'rs. Rodgers 



and Ringgold. 



BY P. R. TJHLER. 



PLATYPLEURA Amyot et Serv. 



P. FENESTRATA. — Piceous : head tawny, with a black band, which is quad- 

 rately prolonged backwards upon the middle to the base, also a linear pro- 

 longation scarcely half way between the middle and the eyes, surface behind 

 the eyes, the interior margin of the eyes connecting with the band, and an ir- 

 regular spot each side of the front, black ; vertex yellowish, with a transverse 

 black spot, face blackish, covered each side with golden pubescence, the lateral 

 margins, a large spot at base, and the transverse rugae interruptedly yellow ; 

 rostrum yellow, tinged with piceous at tip ; stemmatayellow with a black disk ; 



basal joints of the antennse piceous, remaining joints : prothorax tawny, 



the posterior lobe olivaceous, a longitudinal spot behind the head, an anteriorly 

 trifurcate one against the posterior lobe, and the lateral sub-margin black ; 

 mesothorax tawny, with four triangular black spots, of which the two in- 

 terior ones are not more than one-half the length of the others, a longitudinal 

 spot upon the middle, which is dilated each side behind, and a round im- 

 pressed point each side of it, also black, the exterior triangular spots are con- 

 nected posteriorly with a piceous spot, which occupies the transverse excava- 

 tion ; metathoracio cross broadly emarginated posteriorly : tergum blackish- 

 piceous, clothed each side with golden pubescence, the posterior margins of 

 the basal segments each side, and the drum-covers yellowish, the posterior 

 margins of the segments ciliated with whitish hairs ; venter pale piceous, the 

 segments margined with yellowish, opercles yellowish, pubescent, blackish at 

 base ; pectus densely yellowish pubescent ; legs pale piceous, tips of claws 

 black ; fore wings tawny upon the corium, subhyaline from thence to tip, a 

 broad brown wavy band traversing the wing at the middle of the front areolet, 

 the basal areolet, a spot upon the costal margin not far from the base, and 

 another near the apex of the front areolet, deep brown, a dusky band traverses 

 the wing at the middle, and vestiges of the same color are continued against 

 the corium ; a dusky cloud towards the apex extends more than half way 

 across the wing, and a smaller dusky spot at tip is subconfluent Avith the 

 former, the tips of the longitudinal veins at tlie exterior margin have a series 

 of geminate brown spots, veins tawny-piceous towards the tip ; hind wings 

 tawny-orange, the veins deeper, a brown transverse spot beyond the costal 

 middle, and the exterior margin broadly and wavedly, from the spot, brown, 

 nervures brown, the one separating the flap broadly margined with dusky : 

 coxal valves long, very narrow, triangular, subquadi-ately dilated at base. 



Length 10 lines. Alar expanse 30^ lines. 



Hab. — Simoda, Japan. 



This may be a variety of P. hilpa, Walker, but in the absence of direct com- 

 parison with the type it is impossible to decide. 



FIDICINA Amyot et Serv. 

 F. ATBATA, Fab. Syst. Ent. 681, 15 ; Ent. Syst. iv. 24, 28. Donovan Ins. 



[Sept, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 263 



China, pi. 15, p. 31. Hong Kong, Clilna. This species varies in the shape 

 and direction of some of the nerves of the hemelytra, and in the coloring, par- 

 ticularly of the wings, but a comparison of the genital organs, &c., will satisfy 

 any one of the identity of the species. 



CICADA (Linn.) Amyot et Serv. 



C. PELLosoMA. — Pale ochreous or tawny ; head with the eyes as broad as the 

 thorax, dusky piceous above, with an ochreous band upon the anterior mar- 

 gin not quite reaching the eyes, a spot of the same color behind the stemmata, 

 where there is an interrupted, longitudinal, impressed line ; clypeus bounded 

 posteriorly by a transverse sulcus, each side with an arcuated impression, and 

 the anterior middle obsoletely, longitudinally impressed, foveolated each side 

 above the antennae ; face dusky, clothed with golden pubescence, the sides 

 and middle of the front, and base of the rostrum honey-yellow ; rostrum reach- 

 ing to the middle coxae, pitchy towards the tip, tip blackish ; stemmata red ; 

 antennae honey-yellow, tinged with piceous at base : prothorax a little broader 

 posteriorly, subquadrate, the lateral margins moderately dilated and recurved, 

 anteriorly obliquely rounded, posteriorly a little roundly emarginated, fuscous, 

 with a middle, longitudinal line and the posterior and lateral margins yellow ; 

 mesothorax fuscous upon the middle to the base, W-shaped lines yellow : 

 operoles subreniform, rounded posteriorly, about one-third the length of the 

 abdomen, abdomen longer than broad, sublanceolate : beneath pale piceous ; 

 basal tooth of the anterior femora cylindrical, very oblique, long, acute, two 

 smaller, straighter ones near the tip. 



First transverse nerve straight, second oblique, forming an angle of about 

 45°, third almost straight forming a right angle, fourth curved inwardly, hardly 

 oblique, fifth curved outwardly. 



Length to tip of abdomen 6^ lines. Alar expanse 15 lines. 



Hah. — Hong Kong, China. 



The front is traversed by about seven transverse ridges, and the longitudi- 

 nal sulcus is about two-thirds the length of the front ; the female is paler than 

 the male, and has the dorsal, thoracic spot replaced by four deltoid ones, the 

 exterior ones of which are much larger than the others. 



MOGANNIA Amyot et Serv. 



1. M. illustrata, Amyot et Serv. Hemipt. 467, 1. Hong Kong, China. 



2. M. indicans, Walker, Brit. Mus. Cat. Homopt. p. 249, 3. Hong Kong, 

 China. 



3. M. histrionica. — Piceo-rufous : densely covered with short pile ; head 

 ochraoeo-fulvous, rostrum and each side of the epistoma tinged with piceous ; 

 face hairy, stemmata red : prothorax fulvous, more brightly so upon the pos- 

 terior lobe, each side of the disk with a large rufo-piceous spot ; mesothorax 

 tinged with ferrugineo-piceous, excepting the sides ; metathorax fulvous, 

 barely emarginated posteriorly ; abdomen piceo-rufous, the segments each side 

 upon the incisures, tinged with fulvous, the apical segment with an erect, 

 subcylindrical tooth superiorly, each side of which is a deep colored spot, be- 

 neath fulvous : wings subhyaline, the anteriors with a fuscous spot reaching 

 beyond the middle, convex upon its exterior margin and only reaching the 

 basal areole interiorly, the veins, base, costal margin and a transverse band 

 near the apex of the spot, pale yellow, necks of the wings not reddish : pectus 

 blackish-piceous ; legs bluish-black, pubescent. Female. 



Length 6| lines. Alar expanse 15 lines. 



The male is paler in coloring, especially upon the thorax, and the transverse 

 yellow band of the fore wings is more spread upon the middle surface and 

 margins of the veins ; also less hairy ; the opercles are transverse, reniform, 

 fuliginous. 



Hub. — Hong Kong, China. 



1861.] 




28-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



HUECHYS Amyot et Serv. 



H. SANGDiNEA, De Geei, Mem. Ins. iii. 221, pi. 33 ; fig. 17. Hong Kong. 



CENTROTUS Fab. 



Fragments of a species belonging to this genus, perhaps C. taunts, Fab., 

 were contained in the lot from Hong Kong, but they were too incomplete to 

 distinguish the species with certainty. 



CERCOPIS Fab. 



1. C. heros, Fab. Syst. Rhyng. 89,3. Hong Kong, China. 



2. C bimacula, Walker, Brit. Mus. Cat. Homopt. 656, 25. Hong Kong, 

 China. 



Descriptions of four species of HEMIPTERA collected by the North-Western 



Boundary Survey. 



BY P. R. UHLER. 



Suborder HETEROPTERA. 



CORIZUS Fieb. 



C. BOREALis. — Pale fuscous, clothed with whitish hair ; head narrow, eyes 

 but little prominent, basal joint of the antennae with a black spot beneath, 

 and pointed above with black, as are also the two following joints, apical joint 

 thicker, about equal in length to the preceding joint, dusky ; a black arcuated 

 spot between the ocelli and eyes, and a spot of the same color upon the ocelli ; 

 rostrum yellow, with a black longitudinal line ; thorax coarsely, confluently 

 punctured, the pectus with a spot, and an arcuated line behind the eyes, 

 black, anterior margin of the prothorax blackish, lateral margins slightly 

 sinuated before the middle, scutellum coarsely punctured, dusky at base, a 

 longitudinal line at the base and the lateral margins smooth, yellowish, the 

 apex with a rounded concave impression ; corium semitransparent, pale yellow- 

 ish, with a few small dots upon the longitudinal nerves, and two geminate, 

 confluent spots at the anastomosis, black ; principal nervures of the wings 

 black ; tergum black, finely, closely punctured, the last segment yellow, with 

 a longitudinal spindle-shaped black mark upon the middle, and three sub- 

 sutural ones each side, penultimate segment with a subtriangular, yellow spot 

 each side, the antepenultimate segment with an oblong, yellow spot upon the 

 middle, connexivum with a subquadrate black spot upon each segment, which 

 are also seen beneath ; venter with two somewhat approximate, black points, 

 each side of the middle, upon the three discoidal segments, basal middle of the 

 last segment with an obscure black point ; legs pointed with black, the points 

 confluent upon the posterior femora, forming a black patch, apices of the tarsal 

 joints and the nails black. 



Length 8 millims. Humeral breadth 2| millims. 



A single female was collected by the expedition, east of Fort Colville. I 

 have also examined specimens obtained by Mr. Kennicott, in Arctic America. 



CORIXA Geofi'. 



C. VULNERATA. — Blackish fuscous, upper surface uniformly rostrated ; front 

 convex, hardly prominent, mouth dusky, eyes triangular, reddish brown, face 

 with very long golden yellow hairs, vertex with four longitudinal rows of large 

 punctures, occiput lightly carinated, acutely produced in the middle ; pro- 

 thorax obtusely rounded posteriorly, yellow, with seven black lines, two of 

 them forked, posterior ones a little curved ; lines of the clavus yellow, basal 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



285 



ones entire, those behind the base intermpted at the inner suture, a few of the 

 middle ones broken ; lines of the corium rather direct, broken, subparallel, 

 oblique line at the membrane yellow, membrane with very serpentina lines, 

 radiating towards the interior margin, which they do not reach ; marginal area 

 yellowish white ; wings milk white ; tergum black, connexivum yellow, with 

 black incisures ; beneath yellowish white, venter dusky at base ; legs yellow- 

 ish white, tip of the basal tarsal joints of the middle feet, black, a broad black 

 band upon the tarsi of the posterior feet, palae cultriform, slightly arcuated at 

 the tip, rather broad, hardly broader in the middle, cilire moderately long. 

 Female 



Length 7^ millims. 



Two specimens were obtained near Chiloweyuck Depot, Washington Terri- 

 tory. The species is remarkable for having very fine scratched, transverse 

 lines bounding some of the lines of the thorax. 



Subordet EOMOPTERA. 



CICADA Linn. 



C. AEEOLATA. — Black, with a slightly aeneous tinge ; head sordid black, hav- 

 ing a marginal subtriangular, orange spot above the antennse, hypostoma very 

 prominent, rounded, convex, the longitudinal sulcus dilated near its middle, 

 at each end becoming less defined, the transverse elevated lines slender, dis- 

 tant, the intervals flat, shallow ; face clothed with long white hairs ; rostrum 

 blackish, orange upon the middle ; apical joint of the antennse yellow ; eyes 

 very prominent, pedunculated ; superior aspect of the prothorax transversely 

 quadrate, the posterior angles but slightly produced, the lateral margins ob- 

 tusely angulated in the middle, hardly emarginate before the posterior angles, 

 the posterior margin truncated, orange ; surface rugous, with a longitudinal, 

 slightly impressed orange line upon the middle ; mesothorax black, shining ; 

 elevated posterior margin of the metathorax, including the two posterior 

 branches of the elevated X, orange ; hemelytra broad, obtuse, dilated upon the 

 costal margin to the tip of the first marginal areolet, costa and two posterior 

 longitudinal veins at base, yellow, remainder of the veins piceous, veins of 

 the wings yellow, piceous at tip, excepting the middle longitudinal one, which 

 is piceous almost to the base ; tergum black, shining, with scattered white 

 hairs, last segment with a long slender tooth superiorly ; venter sordid black, 

 densely hairy ; lateral pieces of the antepectus orange ; legs orange, the an- 

 terior femora black beneath, armed with two long, rather straight, acute 

 spines ; the knees, a line upon the tibije above, the tarsi, and tips of all the 

 nails piceous ; two foliaceous, rather thick, elongate-oval appendages at the 

 caudal extremity beneath the tooth, the superior one much shorter than the 

 other, and lying applied against it. Female 



The male has no tooth at the caudal extremity, but appendages like those 

 of the female are present ; the penis cover is sub-fusiform, carinated above, 

 and with an interrupted groove exterior to the concave sulcus present upon 

 each side of the middle ; the last ventral segment is extremely elongated, 

 sheath-like, hairy, rufo-piceous ; the drums and sonory apparatus are merely 

 rudimental. 



Length 21 millims. Alar expanse 50 millims. 



Found east of Fort Colville in Washington Territory. This species is very 

 remarkable from the abortive appearance of the drums, and it is highly pro- 

 bable that the species is without a note. In the specimens noticed and cap- 

 tured, no note was observed to be produced. 



PROCONIA Amyot et Serv. 



P. CONFLCENS. — Blackish, slender; face white, front rather prominent} 

 convex, two maculose, irregular, longitudinal lines upon the middle, a dot at 



1861.] 




286 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



base and apex, a few small spots about the tip, and tie transverse stfisE) 

 blackish or piceous ; labrum with a short black line ; rostrum tinged with 

 piceous at tip and near the base, antennfe yellow at base, piceous at tip, situ- 

 ated upon a dusky spot, upper surface of the head black, a white abrupt line 

 at the yertex, two abrupt longitudinal ones upon the disk, an abrupt trans- 

 verse one on the middle of the posterior margin, almost connected with the 

 discal ones, and a few minute spots, whitish yellow, discal impression shallow ; 

 thorax nigro-piceous, or fuscous, with fire maculosa, irregular, yellowish 

 stripes, the exterior ones curved inward anteriorly, anterior margin yellow, 

 and behind and against it are many small yellow marks and dots ; pectus yel- 

 lowish white, with black spots, a large black spot upon the pleura, behind the 

 eyes ; hemelytra blackish fuscous, with numerous yellowish white short 

 streaks and flecks, especially upon the suture of the clavus, costal margin and 

 interior edge of the clavus yellowish-white, interior apical areole of the mem- 

 brane fuliginous, with a fuscous nervule ; wings dark fuliginous ; scutellum 

 black, with a short apical line, the exterior edge and two spots upon the disk, 

 yellowish-white ; abdomen black, with the incisures of the segments yellowish- 

 white ; legs yellowish white, with white spines to tbe posterior tibiae, base and 

 apex of the posterior femora, the apices of the tarsal joints minutely, and the 

 nails, fuscous. 



Length 5^ millims. Alar expanse 13 millims» 



Collected in the North- Western part of Washington Territory. 



It is much less robust than P. costalis, Fab., which it most resembles. 



Sectfication of the paper upon the HEIIIPTEBA of the North Facifio Ezpedltion. 

 BY P. R. UHLER. 



My paper in the Proceedings for 1860 is very full of errors, owing to my not 

 having received the proof in time to correct it before its passage through the 

 press. There are many typographical and orthographical errors which the 

 reader can correct for himself; but tbe specific name was omitted from the 

 description under Orth,ea, which must be Orth/*;a maculifera, page 228. In 

 the introductory remarks, page 221, the expression: — ^' genera, Fenta(o7na and 

 Coreus of Fabricius," should read :— genera Pentatoma of Latreille, and Coreus 

 of Fabricius. 



The genus Eucorysses not being distinct from Callidea, the species described 

 on page 221, must be referred to it, and as the specific name will thus be pre- 

 occupied, it may be called C. distinguenda. The species of Acanthosoma is 

 wrongly referred to hcemalogaster Burm., and is an undescribed species :— It may 

 be called : — 



Acanthosoma vicindm.' — Olivaceous-yellow, coarsely punctured with black; 

 head densely, confluently punctured, central lobe as long as the lateral ones ; 

 rostrum pale luteous, piceous at tip, antennee pubescent, luridly luteous, the 

 last joint and the middle of the preceding one piceous, ocelli red ; thorax very 

 coarsely, confluently, deeply punctured, particularly in occasional impressions 

 of the surface, punctures rather sparse upon the disk, but much finer and ex- 

 tremely dense upon the humeri, humeral angles very prominent, subacute, 

 emarginated behind, black, bounded interiorly with reddish; lateral margins 

 of the thorax slightly sinuated, broadly impunctured. Scutellum sparsely, but 

 very coarsely punctured, the apex not margined with yellow ; corium im- 

 punctured upon the disk, the remaining aurface rather finely, and in spots 

 confluently, punctured ; membrane fuliginous, with some large white spots ; 

 wings tinged with fuliginous : tergum reddish-brown, the lateral margins 

 yellow, with three quadrate black spots, behind which are two black points : 

 pectus rather finely, confluently punctured with black : venter yellow, polished, 

 with a few scattered black punctures each side, the last segment and append- 



'8ept. 



[^ 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



ages pitchy, veatral spiae slightly surpassing the posterior coxae : less honey- 

 yellow, tips of the tarsi piceous. 



Length to tip of membrane 7 millim. Humeral breadth 4 millim. 



Hab. Hong Kong, China. 



The generic name Pachycephalus, page 225, is preocupied and may be 

 changed to Hygia ; the species will then be Hygia opaca. 



The name Anaoanthus, page 227, is also preocupied ; it may be changed to 

 Anacanthocoris. 



Descriptions of Nine New North American LIMNOBIACE^. 

 BY BARON R. OSTEN SACKEN. 



Since the publication of my paper on the N. A. Tipulidce with short palpi (in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy for August, 1859,) my opportunities for col- 

 lecting have been very limited, and in consequence of this, the number of new 

 species discovered is not as large as I might have desired. 



The following descriptions embrace five new species found by myself, two 

 collected by Mr. Alex. Agassiz, in California, and two by Mr. Robt. Kennicott, 

 in the northwestern parts of the possessions of the Hudson's Bay Company. 



Several other new species in my collection I do not venture to describe, the 

 number of specimens not being sufficient to establish the specific character. 

 Among them, a Dicranoptycha, from California, deserves to be mentioned as a 

 matter of geographical distribution. 



I take occasion here to correct two errors which I discovered in the above 

 mentioned paper. 



First, That tjie measurement which I have used are tenths of an inch, and not 

 lines. I called them lines, because the line used in Russia is equal to one-tenth 

 of the Russian inch, which is the same as the inch used in England and America. 



Second, That my Limnophila pavonina is the Limnobia fascipennis Say. I had 

 failed for a long time to identify this species from Say's description, but am 

 positive now about this synonymy. 



DICRANOMYIA Steph. 



D. iMMEMOR. — Silacea, thorace pleurisque vittis infuscatis, alis immaculatis 

 elongatis, valde anguUis, areola discoidali aperta ; long. 0-25 — 0-3. 



Ochraceous, vertex infuscated, palpi and antennae brownish, second joint of 

 the latter stout ; praescutum with three indistinct brown stripes ; the inter- 

 mediate darker towards the collare ; pleuras with a brown stripe extending from 

 the base of the halteres, across the root of the wing towards the humeri ; hal- 

 teres pale, knob almost imperceptibly infuscated ; tergum somewhat brownish ; 

 feet pale yellow, tip of tibise and the tarsi infuscated; wings very narrow, 

 almost lanceolate, their basal, narrowed portion very long ; anal angle small, 

 hardly projecting ; their color is subhyaline ; stigma elongated, pale, its outline 

 indistinct posteriorly ; costal and subcostal veins yellow, the other veins brown ; 

 tip of the mediastinal vein a little beyond the origin of the petiole ; stigmatical 

 crcssvein near the tip of the subcostal vein ; radial area considerably longer 

 than the cubital one ; the latter longer than the subapical one ; discoidal areolet 

 ■wanting, the space usually occupied by it not being closed by a crossvein ; 

 this space is narrow and elongated; the fork, enclosing the second externome- 

 dial areolet is short and narrow ; axillary vein somewhat undulated. 



Numerous % and 9 specimens on a meadow near the Trenton Falls, N. Y., 

 in September (nob.) 



The general habitus of this species is different from the other Dicranomyia ; 

 its very narrow wings with their yellow costal and subcostal veins, forming a 

 contrast with the brown color of the other veins, make it easily recognizable. 

 The structure of its male forceps belongs to the same type with those of the 

 other species of the group. 



1861.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



D. marmobata. — Cinereo-fusca, thorace vittis tribus fuscis, alis cinereo nebu- 

 losis, stigmate quandrangulari, fusco ; long. 0"4. 



Proboscis, palpi and antennee brown ; joints of the latter subglobular, ver- 

 ticils short ; front and vertex cinereous, darker in the middle; thorax cinereous, 

 with three brown stripes ; abdomen brownish cinereous, posterior margins of 

 the segments pale ; halteres pale ; feet yellowish, tips of femora, of the tibiae 

 and of the tarsi brown ; wings subcinereous with some darker clouds and some 

 hyaline bands and spots ; a cloud at the origin of the petiole, another, round 

 one, at the tip of the petiole ; crossveins also clouded ; stigma obscure-cinereous, 

 elongated, quadrangular ; the hyaline spots are arranged in the following way : 

 a small rounded one in the anal angle ; a band running across the basal portion 

 of the prae-, pobrachial and anal arese and ending in the axillary near the 

 posterior margin ; a spot in the anal area near the tip of the axillary vein ; a 

 large irregular hyaline space in the central portion of the wing, enclosing the 

 stigma and the two clouds of the petiole, and extending more or less towards 

 the posterior margin, across the discal and the externomedial areolets ; its out- 

 line is very indefinite, and it is interrupted by clouded marks along the veins; 

 a small hyaline mark at the tip of the wing, in the cubital vein. The tip of 

 the mediastinal vein almost corresponds to the origin of the petiole ; the medi- 

 astinal crossvein is a short distance before its tip ; the discal areolet is present 

 (closed) and the great crossvein corresponds to its base. 



California, two (^ specimens. (Mr. A. Agassiz). This species is related to 

 D. humidicola, 0. S. 



LIMNOBIA nob. 



L. CALiFOHNiCA. — Thorax vittis quatuor ; alae fuscescentes, pallida fenestratse, 

 margine anteriore maculis quatuor fuscis ; long. 0-7 — 0*8. 



Front and vertex brown ; underside of the head and sides of the occiput yel- 

 low ; proboscis, palpi and antennae brown ; two basal joints of the latter yellow. 

 Thorax yellowish, mixed with brown ; prasscutum with four brown stripes ; the 

 intermediate ones narrow, parallel ; at their anterior end, they coalesce with 

 the brown margin to the prsescutum, which is broadest at the humeri ; lateral 

 stripes abbreviated anteriorly and extending over the scutum posteriorly ; scu- 

 tellum, metathorax and pleurae more or less tinged with brownish ; base and tip 

 of halteres pale, the intermediate portion infuscated ; femora brownish ; a yel- 

 low ring before the tip, which is black ; tibias ferruginous-brownish, brown 

 at tip ; tarsi ferruginous-brownish at the base, the remainder brown. Wings 

 with a brownish tinge; four large brown spots along the anterior margin ; the 

 first at the basis of the prasbrachial area ; the second at the origin of the 

 petiole, somewhat trapezoidal ; both do not cross the subcostal vein, and do 

 not therefore reach the anterior margin ; the second is limited posteriorly by 

 the pr^brachial vein ; the third spot is double, consisting of an oblique spot 

 which begins at the margin, just beyond the tip of the mediastinal vein, and 

 coalesces with a round spot at the tip of the petiole (origin of the fork); the 

 fourth spot is at the tip of the subcostal vein ; it is semi-oval and is enclosed 

 between the costa and the radial vein ; there are several subhyaline spots on 

 the surface of the wing ; a large angular one, beginning about the middle of 

 the anal area and reaching the posterior margin at the tip of the axillary vein ; 

 smaller ones in the anal angle of the wing, at the tip of the anal vein ; in the 

 pobrachial area (near the great crossvein) ; in the discal areolet; at the tip of 

 the wing, and on both sides of the fourth brown spot. A subhyaline longitu- 

 dinal streak crosses the second brown spot in the prasbrachial area, and the 

 round spot at the tip of the petiole is encircled in pale. The mediastinal 

 veinlet is almost in one line with the tip of the mediastinal vein. 



California (Mr. Alex. Agassiz.) Single male. 



This species belongs to the group of L. cinciipes, solitaria and immatura, and 

 is most allied to the latter. Still it will be readily distinguished by its greater 

 size, the coloring of the feet and the wings, etc. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 289 



L. PAEiETiNA. — Brunneo-flavescens ; thorace vittis tribus fuscis, media capil- 

 lar! ; alae nebulis, strigis et maculis pallide fuscis ; stigmate pallido, longo ; 

 venula stiymaticaU a venarum mediastinalis et subcosialis terminibus ceque disians ; 

 long. 0-6— 65. 



Head, proboscis and palpi dark brown ; antennse pale, joints of the flagellum 

 brown at the basis. Praescutum yellow, with three brown stripes ; the inter- 

 mediate is divided by a longitudinal, pale, sometimes hardly apparent line ; 

 the lateral ones are abbreviated before and extend over the scutum behind; 

 scutellum and metathorax brownish ; pleurae brownish, mixed with yellow ; 

 halteres infuscated, whitish at tip ; feet yellowish brown, a pale ring before the 

 tip of femora; the latter pale; tarsi brown. Abdomen brownish; posterior 

 margin of segments and a longitudinal stripe along the middle of the back, 

 pale. Wings with clouds on all crossveins and with pale brown irregular spots 

 in almost all the areae ; in three or four of the apical areolets these spots assume the 

 shape of an inverted V. The stigma is very long, pale ; the stigmatical crossvein 

 is in the middle of the distance between the tips of the mediastinal and the 

 subcostal vein ; the mediastinal crossvein is close at the tip of the mediastinal 

 vein. 



The position of the stigmatical crossvein, and the very oblong stigma dis- 

 tinguish this species from all the others of the group. Its antennae, especially 

 in the living specimens, seems to be 15-jointed, the linear part of the 14th joint 

 being unusually long ; still, a careful examination convinced me that there was 

 no articulation to separate this 15th joint. 



Trenton Falls, on fences, in September, numerous (^ and 9 specimens, 

 (nob). 



L. HUDsoNicA. — Thorax vittis quatuor, alae fusco-maculatas et nebulosae ; 

 maculae in margine anteriore obscure brunnese, subopaecae ; earum prima 

 duplex ; long. 0-5. 



Head ciuereous above, yellowish-ferruginous below ; proboscis and palpi 

 brown ; antennae brown ; basal joints yellowish-ferruginous ; praj.-cutum with 

 four brown stripes ; intermediate ones separated by a yellowish line which is 

 gradually widened anteriorly ; halteres with a brown knob ; feet (?) ; wings 

 with brown spots and clouds; four deep brown spots along the anterior mar- 

 gin; the first is double, consisting of two spots, one at the base of the prjebra- 

 chial area, the other immediately beyond it, connected together by the 

 expansion of the first of them in the pobrachial area; the second spot, at the 

 origin of the petiole, is trapezoidal, the oblique sides being slightly excised ; 

 the third, at the tip of the petiole, is oblique and double; the fourth, at the 

 tip of the subcostal vein is rounded ; the intervals between the three first of 

 these spots are cloudless, whitish ; the clouds on the remaining portion of the 

 wing are exactly like those of L. immatura, only their color is more intense ; 

 an undulated one runs across the apical portion of the wing, and there are 

 several along the posterior margin. The fork formed by the tip of the medias- 

 tinal vein with its crossvein, is like that of L. solitiria, that is, the upper 

 branch is longer and oblique, the lower one being short and perpendicular. 



Single female from the Slave Lake (Huds. Bay Terr.) by Mr. R. Kennicott. 



The resemblance between this species and L. immatura is very striking ; still 

 they can be distinguished by some very reliable characters. The desire to 

 prevent their confusion induced me to describe this new species, although I 

 have but one imperfect specimen. The principal characters distinguishing 

 them are — 1st, the spot at the base of the praebrachial area is simple in L. imma- 

 tura, whereas it is composed of two successive spots, connected as described 

 above, in the other species; 2d, the structure of the mediastinal fork, and per- 

 haps, 3d, the brown knob of the halteres in L. hudsonica, whereas in L. immatura 

 the upper portion of this knob is pale. Besides, the spots of L. hudsonica are 

 of a much more intense brown, contrasting with the pale space between them. 



We have now five closely allied species within the genus Limnohia proper. 



1861.] 20 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



As they may be somewhat difficult to identify, the following tabular arrange- 

 ment will clearly point out their differences. 



Upper branch of the fork (formed by the tip of the mediastinal vein, with the 

 mediastinal crossvein), longer, somewhat arcuated; the lower one short, 

 perpendicular. 



Two dark brown spots in the basal portion of the praebrachial area, con- 

 nected together by the expansion of the first of them within the po- 

 brachial area ; tips of femora (?) hudsonica, 0. S. 



Brown spot at the basis of the prae- and pobrachial areas pale and not 

 distinct; a series of more or less numerous dots along the disc of the 

 former area. Tips of femora brown, a pale ring before them. 



solitaria, 0. S. 

 Branches of the fork of about equal length. 



Surface of the wings brownish, with some pale marks (besides the usual 



foiir large brown spots along the anterior margin) : tips of femora 



brown, with a pale ring before tlVem. californica, 0. S. 



Tips of femora yellow, but with a brown ring close before them ; wings 



with brown clouds and spots ; an ocellated spot at the posterior end 



of the stigma. cinctipes, Say. 



Lower branch of the fork longer, oblique, the upper one being perpendicular; 



wings marked like in L. cinctipes, but the brown spot at the posterior end 



of the stigma is not ocellated ; tips of femora yellow, but with a brown 



ring close before them. immaiura, 0. S. 



TRIMICRA nob. 



Proboscis and palpi short. Antenna of moderate length, 16-jointed ; joints of 

 the flagelium, especially the basal ones, subcjliudrical, slightly incrassated at 

 the base, with moderate verticils ; three ajrical joints of the (^ very abruptly smaller 

 than the preceding ones, subglobiilar. Feet long, hairy, moderately stout; without 

 spurs at the tip of the tibite. Ungues very s-mall, smooth, inserted under a pro- 

 jection of the last tarsal joint. Pulvilli small, but distinct. Wings somewhat 

 elongated, rather narrow; veins arranged more or less like Limnophila, or 

 Cladura, but no petiolate areolet ; petiole long, not arcuated at its origin, which 

 is removed towards the basis of the wing to a point situated some distance 

 before the middle of the wing ; mediastinal crossvein far removed from the tip of the 

 mediastinal vein, being more than twice nearer to the origin of the petiole than 

 to that tip. Genitals of the (^ apparently like Limnophila (I neglected to make 

 a drawing of them from the living insect.) 



The position of this genus in the group of the Tipulce eriopferwformes is evi- 

 dent. It is easily distinguished by the three small-sized terminal joints of its (^ 

 antennae. Still, as this character may be less distinctly seen in dry specimens, 

 'the position of its mediastinal veinlet, the absence of the petiolate areolet, the 

 form of the petiole, which is not, or is almost imperceptibly, arcuated at its 

 origin, and finally, the form of the male genital organs, will help to distinguish 

 it from Cladura. It is allied to Eriopttra on account of the situation of the 

 mediastinal crossvein, but distinguished from it, besides the structure of the 

 antennae, by its glabrous wings only very slightly pubescent along the veins. 



T. ANOMALA. — Fusco-cinerea, antennis nigris, t*horace vittis tribus fuscis, 

 femoribus apice infuscalis ; alls immaculatis, modice brunnescentibus ; long. 

 0-3— 0-35. 



Brownish cinereous ; front with a brown line in the middle ; antennae and 

 ■palpi blackish- brown ; prsescutum infuscated in the middle, with three dark 

 brown lines, tlie intermediate one especially distinct ; the lateral ones extended 

 over the scutum ; scutellum paler ; metathorax and pleurse somewhat hoary ; hal- 

 teres pale, a little infuscated at the basis of the knob ; feet hairy, brownish yel- 

 low, tip of femora broadly, tip of tibi;e slightly infuscated ; tarsi brown, paler 

 at base. Tergum brown, hairy, sides and forceps of the (^ paler. Wings 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



immaculate, slightly tinged with brownish ; stigmatical crossveins and the 

 other central crossveins with a slight brown nebula ; veins minutely pubescent 

 towards the tip ; the stigmatical crossveia starts from the upper branch of the 

 radial vein, immediately beyond the origin of the second radial area ; the latter 

 is a little shorter than the cubital area ; the subapical area almost of the same 

 length with the preceding one ; discoidal areolet narrowed anteriorly, like a 

 truncated triangle ; the great crossvein a little anterior to the discoidal areolet. 



Washington, D. C, dutumn, 1860. 



Compared a (^ and a 9 specimen ; the discoidal areolet of the right wing of 

 the (^ is abnormally formed, its second lower discal crossvein being removed 

 towards the basis of the areolet, in such a way that the first and second exter- 

 nomedial veins form a petiolate areolet, and the discoidal areolet is very much 

 shortened. 



CLADURA 0. S. 



C. iNDiviSA. — Flavo-ferruginea ; pleuras punctis, abdomen fasciis brunneis ; 

 alae subflavescentes ; area cubiiali Integra (veaula transversa non instructa) ; 

 long. 0-28— 0-3. 



Similar in all respects to C. flavoferruginea, only the transverse vein in the 

 cubital area is wanting ; crossveins and origin of petiole but indistinctly 

 clouded ; the size is variable, but generally smaller than in the other species. 



When I described C. flavoferruginea, I had several specimens of this new 

 species before me, all from Massachusetts. Although the absence of the cross- 

 vein in all these specimens was a very striking character; I did not choose 

 at that time, without further proof, to consider them as a different species. 

 Since then I caught numerous specimens at the Trenton Falls, in September, 

 1860, all partaking of the same character, which removes all doubt as to their 

 specific diversity. Some of these specimens, probably recently excluded, were 

 very pale and altogether without spots. 



Mass. (Mr. Scudder) ; Trenton Falls (nob.) 



AMALOPIS Halid. 



A. VEBNALI3. — Fusco-cinerea, thorace vittis tribus fuscis, media cuneiformi, 

 capillar! ; alae maculis 5 vel 6 in margine anteriore ; long. 0.3 — 0.4. 



Head brownish-cinereous, front infuscated in the middle, palpi at the tip ; 

 antennae 16-jointed, not much longer than the head; basal joint yellowish, 

 flagellum brown, verticils very short. Prajscutum yellowish-cinereous with 

 three stripes ; the intermediate one broad, cuneiform, with a pale line in the 

 middle (capillary) ; lateral ones abbreviated anteriorly; scutum infuscated in 

 the middle ; scutellum, metathorax and pleurEB cinereous; the latter somewhat 

 hoary; halteres pale yellowish ; feet brownish, base of femora pale. Abdomen 

 brown, posterior margin of the segments pale ; § ovipositor ferruginous. 

 Wings somewhat infuscated with five brown spots along the anterior margin ; 

 the first at the mediastinal crossvein, the second at the origin of the petiole, 

 the third, fourth and fifth at the tip of the mediastinal, subcostal and radial 

 veins; a sixth spot is at the tip of the petiole; besides these spots, all the 

 crossveins and tips of the longitudinal veins are more or less clouded ; the male 

 especially has some indistinct clouds on the apical portion of the wing, along 

 the veins : petiolate areolet extant. 



Washington, D. C, two specimens ( (^ ?) in April (nob.) 



This species shares all the characters of Amalopis ; the palpi, however, seem 

 to be somewhat shorter than in the other species of this genus. The structure 

 of the discoidal areolet is very peculiar ; the obliquity of the second lower dis- 

 cal crossvein, common to all species of the genus, is carried so far here, that 

 this crossvein assumes an altogether longitudinal direction, and thus ceases to 

 be a crossvein, becoming a mere prolongation of the second externomedial vein. 

 In consequence of this, the following changes take place in the neuration of 

 that part of the wing : the discal areolet is narrow, parallel, and has but a single 

 1861] 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lower crossvcin ; the third externomedial areolet is unusually long, its basis 

 being on the same line with the bases of the discal and of the fourth externo- 

 medial areolets ; the third externomedial vein, instead of issuing from the discal 

 areolet, runs parellel to it and becomes a mere prolongation of the praebrachial 

 vein. Other peculiarities of the neuration are, that the cubital vein forks and 

 not the radial one (at least such is the case in both of my specimens), that the 

 stigmatical crossvcin is close at the tip of the subcostal vein, and that there is a 

 stump of a vein near the origin of the petiole. The (^ genital organs seem to 

 be analogous to those of Pedicia. The spurs at the tip of the tibiae of this 

 species are very small, almost imperceptible. 



A. HYPERBOREA. — Fusca, alis fusco maculatis, area pobrachiali media venula 

 iransversali instructa ; long. 0-45. 



Very like the preceding, but easily distinguished by the coloring of the 

 wings, by the presence of a svpplemeniary crossvcin about the middle of the pobra- 

 chial area, and by the oblique direction of the second lower discal crossvcin 

 (similar in this respect to all the other species of Amalopis). 



The only specimen which I possess is spoiled by mould, so that my descrip- 

 tion will necessarily be incomplete. 



Body brownish, antennas brown, feet brownish, base of femora paler, tip of 

 tarsi dark brown. Wings with a slight brownish yellow tinge, and with brown 

 spots at the tips of nearly all the veins, as well as at their anastomoses. There 

 are seven such spots along the anterior margin (one at the humeral crossvein, 

 another a little beyond it, a third at the mediastinal crossvein, a large spot at 

 the origin of the petiole, extending to the anterior margin, the following three 

 at the tips of the mediastinal-subcostal and radial veins) ; similar, but smaller 

 spots at the tips of the veins of the posterior margin (beginning with the first 

 externomediiil) ; other spots at the base of the pobrachial area, in the middle 

 of the subaxillary area (at the posterior margin), at the basis of the petiolate 

 areolet, of the area formed by the fork of the cubital vein, and a square cloud 

 in the middle of that area; crossveins also clouded. 



The petiolate areolet is present; the stigmatical crossvein is near the tip of 

 the subcostal vein, and there is a stump of a vein near the origin of the petiole. 



Labrador; single (J* specimen. 



Contributions to the Ophiology of Lower California, Mexico and Central 



America. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



VlPERIDvE. 



Caudisona durissa Laur. Cope, Smithsonian Contribntions, v. xii. 

 Researches on the venom of the Rattlesnake, by S. W. Mitchell, M. D., p. 120. 



A male specimen of this serpent (No. 4945) has been sent by Capt. J. M. 

 Dow, from La Union, San Salvador, to the Smithsonian Institution (No. 4945). 

 It is identical with specimens from Surinam in Mus. Academy, exhibiting simi- 

 lar muzzle plates, head and neck stripes, and the isolated black dorsal rhombs 

 upon a yellow ground, with yellow centres. The crepitacula of this species 

 and the C. terrifica are much shorter and more compressed than in C. 

 a t r o X and C. h o r r i d a. 



Caudisona atrox sonoraensis Kenn. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1861, p. 



Specimens sent from Cape St. Lucas, Lower California, to the Smithsonian 

 Inst, and Phila. Academy, by Mr. John Xantus, are more delicately tinted 

 than Sonora specimens. The dorsal rhombs are more perfect, their yellow 

 borders brighter, and their centres paler and similar in color to the lateral 

 interspaces. The scales but little roughened. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Caudisona e n y o Cope. 



Head depressed, covered with small keeled scales. Superciliaries large, 

 promineut, preceded by a small marginal plate ; muzzle covered above with 

 nearly equal polygonal scales, slightly or not keeled. Rostral plate low, in 

 form a nearly equilateral triangle : nasals two, the anterior in contact with the 

 rostral ; numerous small scales anterior to the fovea lachrymalis. Thirteen or 

 fourteen superior labials, the posterior small ; fourteen and fifteen inferior, the 

 second, third and fourth in contact with the geneial. Two rows of smooth 

 scales, and the infra orbital circle, separate the labials from the orbit; the 

 scales of the former continue smooth upon the temporal region, and are larger 

 than the labials. Scales of the body rounded, short upon the sides, especially 

 those of the first three rows which, near the middle of the body, are not at all, 

 or scarcely, keeled. Total number of rows 23, the median very strongly 

 keeled, none rugose striate as in atrox. Crepitaculum moderate, its seg- 

 ments diminishing in breadth towards its extremity. Gastrosteges 166. Uro- 

 steges 23 single, 3 pair double. Total length (including crepitaculum) 29 in. 

 9 lin. Tail 4 in. 3 lin. 



General color above, light greyish brown, shaded with yellow ; vertex 

 rufous, marked with a pair of small brown spots. A light band, bordered 

 •with dark crosses each superciliary plate ; from the inner border of the same 

 -plate commences a chestnut brown band, which diverges from its fellow on 

 the posterior part of the head, where it is either interrupted or continuous 

 with a broader one which nearly joins that of the opposite side on the neck : 

 here they are either interrupted, or continuing, unite on the neck, and form 

 the first spot. A brown band extends from the eye to the canthus oris, in- 

 volving the last labial plate, and is continued beyond, forming a spot on each 

 side the throat. A series of about thirty-three spots ornaments the middle 

 line of the back ; posteriorly they are of a wood brown color ; the others chest- 

 nut brown bordered with black. Anteriorly the spots are longer than broad, 

 emarginate anteriorly and posteriorly ; opposite to each is a black spot upon 

 scales of the first, second, and third rows. The dorsal spots become broader, 

 resembling transverse rhombs, with light borders outside the black ; the 

 lateral angles become confluent with the lateral black spots, forming vertical 

 black bands on the sides. They finally assume the form of transverse brown 

 bands. The tail is crossed by five of these, upon a brown ground. Beneath 

 yellow ; tips of many of the gastrosteges blackish. Inhabits Lower California, 

 whence specimens have been sent to the Philada. Academy and Smithsonian 

 Institute, by Mr. John Xantus. Tj^pe 4663. Xant. Coll. 



This species bears considerable resemblance to C. m o 1 o s s u s in its style 

 of coloration, and like it, is a beautiful animal. The latter species is scutel- 

 lated upon the muzzle, as in C. d u r i s s a : the rows of scales are more nume- 

 rous than in the e ny o, and it is without the head stripes. 



Caudisona mitchellii. Cope. 



Head depressed, covered with small irregular scales, posteriorly keeled, 

 anteriorly, and upon the obtuse muzzle, rugged, free at the lateral or hinder 

 edges. Superciliaries prominent, striate rugose. One loreal ; nostril large, 

 prenasal small, higher than long, separated from the rostral and superior 

 labials by small scales. Rostral low, an equilateral triangle. Sixteen supe- 

 rior labials, the last large, three rows between them and the orbit ; temporals, 

 large, smooth. Superior labials sixteen. Scales elongate, striate rugose, in 

 25 rows, all strongly keeled except the first. Crepitaculum well developed of 

 the C. a t r o X type, i. e. strongly compressed, having the terminal complete 

 segments as broad as the basal. Gastrosteges 198 ; urosteges 26. Total 

 length (excl. crepitaculum) 44 in., tail 3 in. 6 1. 



The color above and below is greyish yellow. The upper surface of the 

 head is shaded, that of the body coarsely and densely punctulated with brown. 



1861.] 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The regular aggregation and deepness of these punctulations, form a series of 

 about forty-two dorsal spots. These are transverse, with produced lateral 

 angles, extending across twelve rows of scales from angle to angle, separated 

 from the adjacent ones by a bright band of ground color one and a half scales 

 wide. On the posterior fourth of the total length, they form brown cross 

 bands : five upon the tail are black on a very light ground as in C. atrox. 

 Anteriorly there is an ill-defined series of spots which are opposite those of the 

 dorsal line. A yellow band extends from the nasal plates anterior to the eye, 

 involving from the ninth to the last superior labial. Superior to this is a 

 brown band extending from the eye and ceasing on a line with the angle of 

 the mouth. Some indistinct brown marks on tke^top of the head are arranged 

 as follows : one on the inner border of each superciliarj^ ; three posterior to 

 these, the median short and broad ; four further posterior, the median 

 pair longer, diverging, reaching the neck. Cape St. Lucas, Lower Cali- 

 fornia ; one specimen (5291J Sm. No.) in Mus. Smithsonian from Mr. John 

 Xantus. 



This curious rattlesnake is related to C. t i g r i s, C. cerastes, and C. 

 lucifer. In common with the first two and C. e n y o, lepida and 

 m o 1 o s s u s, it exhibits a low rostral plate. The plates of the superior parts 

 of the muzzle resemble only those of (among the above mentioned species) 

 cerastes and e n y o, being small, irregular and rough, without even the 

 marginal series seen in lucifer, atrox, horrid a, etc. In shade of color- 

 ation it is not unlike tigris, being well adapted for concealment upon the 

 sandy soil of the Californian deserts : the distribution and form of the spots 

 are like those of 1 u c i f e r. The separation of the prenasal from the rostral 

 plate is peculiar to the species. It is named in honor of Dr. S. W, Mitchell, 

 the author of the interesting "Researches upon the Venom of the Rattlesnake." 



In the catalogue of rattlesnakes in the Smithsonian contributions, pre- 

 viously cited, thirteen species of the genus Caudisona were referred to, as dis- 

 tinguishably described. Two have been since added to this list, making, with 

 those of the present memoir, the whole number seventeen. Of these, three 

 inhabit South America, six Mexico, two Lower California, and eleven the 

 United States. Two of the eleven are found east of the Mississippi River ; one 

 west of the Rocky Mountains ; the intermediate region is inhabited by ten 

 species, — 1 u c i f e r entering from the west, and h o r r i d a from the east. Of 

 these, the most northern, and widely diffused isLe Contei;it extends from 

 southern Nebraska to Utah ; in the great basin of the latter country a curious 

 variety of it is found. C. a tr o x alone inhabits the greater part of Texas ; in 

 the extreme west of that State, and probably in Chihuahua, C. lepida 

 occurs. The greatest intensity of species is in south western New Mexico 

 and Apacheria (or Arizona), where are found tigris, cerastes, scutu- 

 1 a t u s, atrox s o n o r a e n s i s, m ol o s s u s, and perhaps 1 u c i f er. 



Structurally, the South American species and m o 1 o s s u s form a group 

 characterized by the six regular plates of the muzzle, and the small rattle. 

 The single nasal and smooth head plates isolate the lepida. The superci- 

 liary hornlike processes, and the rostral plate, broader than high, separate the 

 cerastes. The remaining species form the largest group, where there are 

 two nasals, one or more pairs of marginal plates between the superciliary and 

 rostral, separated on the median line by smoother or rougher, small irregu- 

 lar scales ; no superciliary processes. C. m i t c h e 1 1 i i must be distinguished 

 from these by its absence of marginal plates, and presence of scales on the 

 lateral borders of the rostral. AH the species have Professor Reinhardt's 

 scale pores in pairs ; they are very difficult to observe in some of the species— 

 as cerastes and m i t c h e 1 1 i i. In d u r i s s a, a single pore is frequently 

 met with. 



Bothriechis mexicanus Cope. Atropos Mexicanus, Dum. Bibr. vii. p. 1521 . 

 Specimens in Mus. Smithsonian and Academy from Dr. 0. Sartorius from 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 295 



Mirador, Vera Cruz. As suggested in these Proceedings for 1859, p. 339, this 

 species does not belong to the Atropos of Wagler. 



There is a superciliary plate, much encroached upon by the scales of the 

 vertex. The description in the Erpetologie Generale is applicable to our spe- 

 cimens, but the coloration of the plate is slightly incorrect. The dark 

 brown dorsal rhombs are occasionally isolated. 



Bothriechis brachystoma Cope. Teleuraspis Castelnaui et var. brachysloma 

 Cope, Pr. A. N. S. 1859, p. 339. Ibid. 1860, p. 72. 



This species is not Bothrops Castelnaui of the Erpetologie Generale, as we 

 had been led to believe, through the insufficieuQy of the brief description in 

 that work. An examination of Prof. Jan's synopsis in Rev. et Mag. de Zool. 

 1859, p. 155, shows it to be similar to the B. nummifer, but as I have 

 failed to find any description of the latter, I have retained the name given as 

 above. 



Scales of the vertex, front, and temporal regions, keeled. Canthus rostralis 

 prominent, acute, bordered by three scales on each side. Muzzle recurved, 

 rostral plate high. Superior labials normallj- ten, rarely nine or eight. Sec- 

 ond separated by a plate from postnasal, and with the third by granulations 

 from the fbssette. Fourth and fifth largest, separated by one row of scales 

 from subocular granulations. Twelte to fourteen inferior labials. Dorsal 

 scales in twenty-five rows, all keeled but the first. Tail short, quite slender, 

 terminated by a small corneous appendage, which is compressed, grooved 

 upon each side, each moiety inflated, the inferior most produced. Total length 

 13 in. 9 lin., tail 1 in. 5 1. 



Ground color above, gray or fulvous brown, lightest medially. On each 

 side of the median line a series of from sixteen to twenty-one parallelogram- 

 mic brown spots, which are opposite or alternate with those of the opposite 

 side, and frequently divide into double triangles anteriorly. Two spots on 

 the third, fourth and fifth rows opposite each dorsal spot. Gastrosteges 

 and throat clouded and punctulated with brown. Head above and jaws 

 dark brown ; a light band back of the eye. In the type of var. brachys- 

 toma, the superior labials are abnormally nine, the upper and lower labials 

 and geneial region brownish black ; on the inferior labials three light spots, 

 the two anterior continuous from the eye, the posterior prolonged on the 

 neck, forming a light band. A specimen in the Mus. Smithsonian from La 

 Union, Guatemala, from Capt. Jno. M. Dow, is similar to the last, except in 

 having ten labials, four scales bordering the canthus rostralis on each side, 

 twenty-eight pairs of spots, and gastrosteges broadly bordered with brown. 

 Sm. No. 4950. 



Bothrops a t r X Waaler. 



Specimens in Mus. Smithsonian from Greytown, Central America, Dr. Cald- 

 well, donor, and from Mirador, Vera Cruz, from Dr. C. Sartorius. The latter 

 is the most northern locality yet recorded for this widely distributed species. 

 The specimen is half grown, of a mouse color, with about twentj'-one pairs 

 of brown triangular spots, sometimes alternate, sometimes confluent on the me- 

 dian line. Sides of the head and throat yellow. Scale-pores not discover- 

 able. 



Najid.e, 



Elaps e 1 e g a n s Jan. 



A beautiful specimen of this species from Mirador, Dr. Sartorius' Coll., in 

 Mus. Smithsonian, exactly as figured and described by Prof. Jan. Some 

 naturalists appear recently to have become convinced of the specific identity 

 of the forms of Elaps from corallinus to fulvus. We are of opinion 

 that a similar relation will be found to exist between corallinus and 1 e m- 



1861.] 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ni s c a til s, through i so z onu s, et. al., and that a belief in the identity of the 

 lemniscatu s "with the f u 1 v u s will be equally " inevitable." In the case of 

 the forms of the genus Thamnophis, a similar conclusion has been reached, 

 though not consistently carried out, on account of a misapprehension relative 

 to the structure of the preanal plate of the T. sauritus. The admission 

 of the identity of T. s i r t a 1 i s with T. h a y d e n i, renders the acceptation of 

 fai r eyi and s a u r i t u s as distinct from the former, impossible. 



Similar methods of reasoning would necessitate the union of many of the 

 species of Simotes, Tropidonotus, Lampropeltis, Caudisoua, and no doubt at 

 some future day of those comprised in the sections of " protean" genera gene- 

 rally. But if we are to be taught by nature, we will not assume a knowledge of 

 her system which we do not possess ; and laying down as our premises 

 what are scarcely yet our conclusions, form associations which a fresh acces- 

 sion of information must compel us to alter. Let us simply record what we 

 find to exist, and while the grand plan becomes more and more evident, will 

 await patiently the period, perhaps not far distant, when we shall fully com- 

 prehend the details of our branch of the great Cosmos, and be able to present 

 it in its completeness to the contemplation of man. 



Elaps euryxanthus Eenn., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1860, 337.— Mr. 

 Kenuicott has not given us the locality whence the specimens described bj" 

 him were obtained. We believe that one of them was from the region of the 

 Gila. A specimen of the same serpent has been sent to the Mus. Compar. 

 Zoology, Cambridge, from Guaymas, Sonora. 



COLUBRID^. 



Himantodes leucomelas Cope. 



Slender, but less elongated than H. cenchoa. Head very distinct, 

 elliptic. Rostral plate triangular, subinferior. Vertical, with nearly par- 

 allel lateral borders, which are longer than the anterior. Length of occipi- 

 tals, greater than their breadth, and than the vertical ; marginal tem- 

 porals six. Nasals small ; loreal higher than long ; two preoculars, superior 

 not in contact with vertical ; two postoculars, bounded posteriorly by 

 two temporals. Eight supei'ior labials ; eye resting upon the fourth and 

 fifth. Superior labials ten, sixth largest. Seventeen rows of scales, those 

 of the median dorsal broader than long. Length of tail contained three and 

 a half times in the total length. Ground color above and below white tinged 

 with ashy. This is crossed above by twenty-nine black elliptic spots, which 

 cover the tips of the gastrosteges on each side. About eighteen spots on the 

 tail. Beneath, punctulated with black, forming posteriorly a median band. 

 A pair of elongate black spots extend from the posterior half of the superci- 

 liary plates, across part of the vertical, and the whole length of the occipitals, 

 to a short distance posterior to them. They are separated by a narrow band 

 of ground color. There exists a black spot on the anterior part of the vertical, 

 and a band of the same across the postfrontals. 



From Mirador, Vera Cruz. Dr. C. Sartorius. Mus. Smithsonian. 



Himantodes gemmistratus Cojoe. Himantodes cenchoa Cope, Proc. A. 

 N. S Phil., 1860, p. 264. 



Similar in proportions to H. cenchoa. Head short, thick, temporal 

 region swollen. Lateral borders of vertical plate slightly convergent, equal 

 in length to the anterior. The special peculiarities which distinguish it from 

 cenchoa are as follows. The scales of the median dorsal series are dia- 

 mond-shaped, longer than broad, not transverse. But one temporal in contact 

 with the postoculars. Sixth inferior labial largest, not the fifth. In colora- 

 tion it is quite similar ; the spots upon the body number about forty-two, but 

 they are peculiar in being connected by a median dorsal vitta. The belly is 

 punctulated laterally, and is without the median vitta of the cenchoa. 



[Sept- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



The brown of the upper surface of the head is pale, and is varied by a few 

 irreguhir darlcer spots. Total length 30 in., tail 9 in. One specimen in Mus. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. from Capt. Jno. Dow. Habitat San Salvador, Centr. America. 



This is a plainly colored species, resembling the cenchoa more than the 

 leucomelas. In a specimen which we regard as belonging to the former 

 from Trinidad, sent by Mr. A. H. Riise to the Mus. Smithsonian, the spots are 

 large, forty-three in number on the body, bordered with darker. The lateral 

 borders of vertical plate are very convergent, almost continuous with the 

 latero-posterior. The fifth inferior labial is largest. The coloration of the 

 vertex, as represented imperfectly by Seba, consists of a chevron-shaped 

 brown band between the orbits, the angle directed posteriorly ; a light 

 Y-shaped figure enclosed by brown bands on the occiput and nape ; a shade 

 of brown upon the vertical plate. The punctulations of the belly are most 

 dense medially, forming a band. 



In the three species of Himantodes, the postabdominal plate is divided, and 

 the dentition dipsadine. In the two species here described, the scale pores 

 are single ; in H. cenchoa I cannot discover them. 



Trimorphodon lyrophanes Cope. Lycodon lyrophanes Cope, Proc, Acad . 

 Nat. Sci. 1860, p. 343. 



Upon the species described as above, as congeneric with the Siphlophis 

 s c o 1 o p a X,* we now establish the genus Trimorphodon, diagnosing it as fol- 

 lows: Body elongate, compressed ; head distinct, depressed. Posterior superior 

 maxillary tooth separate, grooved ; median teeth small ; anterior elongate, 

 spaced. Anterior mandibular longer than posterior. Pupil vertical. Nasal 

 plates two, loreals two, pre- and postoculars two or more. Scales of the me- 

 dian dorsal line small. Anal and subcaudal scutella divided. Scale pores 

 double. 



In Siphlophis the anal plate is entire, there is one preocular, and one loreal 

 plate. The median dorsal series of scales is larger. In Dipsadomorphus the 

 anterior teeth are not stated to be longer, the loreal and preocular plates are 

 single, the median dorsal row of scales is larger. The anal is entire, and, if 

 it be a valid character, the scale pores are single. 



The genus is nearly allied to Tripanurgus and Siphlophis. The physi- 

 ognomy of the species is repulsive. The present species has only as yet been 

 certainly ascertained to inhabit Lower California ; the identity of specimens 

 from Arizona I regard as not ascertained. Mus. Acad Nat. Sci. and Smith- 

 sonian. 



Trimorphodon biscutatus Cope. Dipsas bisciitata, D. & B. vii. 1153. Dip- 

 sadomorphvs biscutatus, Gthr. Cat. Colubr. Brit. Mus. 1 76. 



This species has the scales in twenty-five rows (23 D. & B.) the preceding, 

 twenty-one. Here the preocular is in contact with the vertical; in the former 

 not. This has the head bands in chevrons, the lyrophanes, lyre-shaped ; 

 the dorsal spots are also much more emarginate anteriorly, laterally, and 

 posteriorly. The biscutatus is much the larger animal of the two. One 

 specimen (5569) in the Mus. Smithsonian was obtained near Realejo, Nicara- 

 gua, by Capt. J. M. Dow. 



Tropidonotus dimidiatus Boie, Isis von Oken, 1827, p. 535. Specimens 

 of this forgotten species have been obtained near Jalapa by Mr. Pease, and sent 

 to the Mus. Academy. It is related to the T. G r a h a m i i Gthr., but wants the 

 dorsal bands, and those margining the abdomen. The plumbeous of the 

 superior regions extends to the first row of scales, (third in Grahamii), 



* As Fitzinger's Neue Classification antedates Boie's memoir in the Isis von Oken, a 

 strict application of the law of priority requires that the Lycodon un i c ol o r of the 

 former work ( Boaodon D. & B.) should retain its name, while the scolopax receive 

 that of Siphlophis, Fitz. 1843. 



1861.] 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



the scales themselves obtuse, (subemarginate iu G r a h a m i i ), in nineteen 

 vows. There are nine superior labials, eye over the fourth and fifth, (six or 

 seven in Gra h a mii, eye over third and fourth), one or two preocular, and 

 two or three postocular plates. The head is shorter and broader than in 

 Grahamii, hence the loreal is higher than long, instead of longer than 

 high. The external nares have a more vertical aspect, but resemble those of 

 Grahamii and of Tropidoclonium sp. in being connected by suture with the 

 labial border only. The prefrontal plates are frequently confluent as des- 

 cribed by Boie. Inferior surface uniform yellow ; no median caudal band. 

 Size that of T. 1 e b e r i s. 



Tropidonotus v a 1 i d u s Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phil. 1860, p. 342. Regina valida 

 Kenn. 1. c. 1860, p. 334. Tropidonotus tephropleura Cope, 1. c. 1860, p. 341. 

 The Californian and Durangoan specimens, assigned formerly to distinct spe- 

 cies, differ in little more than in the less elongated head of the latter. A spe- 

 cimen from Utah in iMus. Smithsonian is quite intermediate in this respect, 

 proving that they are not worthy of receiving distinct appellations in the system. 



Tropidonotus c else no Cope, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1860, p. 341. 



Inhabits Cape St. Lucas, Lower California. This species and the preceding, 

 the only members of the genus inhabiting the Pacific region of North America, 

 have the number of rows of scales similar to that characterizing the European 

 and Asiatic species, while our Eastern and Southern species of the s i p e d o n 

 type, are diflFerent in this respect. They agree in the absence of scale pores 

 with the American species of the type of 1 e b e r i s, and the stolatus and 

 quincunciatus types of Asia. According to Mr. Xantus they are most 

 common in swampy meadows among long grass. 



Tretanorhinus nigroluteus Cope. Dorsal scales in twenty-one rows, all 

 keeled. Head slightly distinct, narrow. Rostral plate broader than high, 

 separated from the prefontals by the nasals : each of the latter is subtrans- 

 verse, the nostril between. Postfrontals as long as vertical ; anterior border 

 of the latter equal to the lateral : occipitals elongate, each bounded by seven 

 temporals. Two loreals, anterior smaller; two preoculars, the superior 

 smaller, not in contact with the vertical; two postoculars, in contact with the 

 temporal. Eight superior labials, eye resting on the fourth ; inferior labials 

 ten, the sixth elongate, the tenth very small. Two pairs of postabdominal 

 scutella. Gastrosteges 136 (tail mutilated) ; length of body 15 in. 6 lin. 



Color above black, tinged with plumbeous as far as the superior half of the 

 second row of scales ; below yellow, punctulated anteriorly, especially upon 

 the inferior labials. Upon the anterior third of the body, the punctulations 

 form a narrow band upon the extremities of the gastrosteges, separated from the 

 dorsal black by a narrow yellow band. A few irregular spots on the urosteges. 



One specimen (5568) presented to the Smithsonian Inst., by Dr. Caldwell, 

 from Greytown, Nicaragua. 



This species differs from the T. variabilis D. & B. in color, in the 

 greater relative size of the postfrontals, and in the presence of carina upon 

 all the more elongate scales. In both the Tretanorhini. the scale-pores are 

 absent. Cuba is the native country of the T. variabilis, whence it does 

 not seem to have been often sent. Dr. Lobi has presented it to the Academy, 

 and Prof Poey to the Smithsonian Inst. It is an interesting species, as 

 exhibiting the full development of the structure towards which we see a suc- 

 cessive approach in Tropidonotus rhombifer,* T. nstus, T. cycle- 



* Since this species was first made known by Dr. Hallowell, it has been described as 

 Tropidonotus pogonias and Nerodia holt>rookii ; it is also very possibly T. cyclopion 

 of Giinther. The mental tubercles do not constitute a specific peculiarity, but are most 

 common on all old individuals : they occur on both species of Tretanorhinus. T. rhom- 

 bifer inhabits the Mississippi valley as far north as Southern Illinois, where Mr. 

 Kennicott has obiained it. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



pium* and T. ano3copus;f i.e. the approximation of the external nares 

 — and consequent restriction of the prefrontal plates — and the narrowing of the 

 superciliary plates, to give that vertical position of nostrils and range of vision 

 so characteristic of the most highly aquatic types of serpents. The union of the 

 prefrontal plates as in Dimades plicatilis is but one step further. Be- 

 tween the latter species and Trop. rhombifer, the Tretanorhinus may be 

 said to be exactly intermediate in respect to position of nares and eye, carina- 

 tion and number of scales, and coloration. Besides this passage from the Tro- 

 pidonotinse to the Homalopsin^, there is some analogy or aSinity between 

 such species as Tropidonotus d i m i d i a t u s and g r a h a m i i and Hypsirhina 

 enhydris of the Old World. A similar connection may be traced through 

 AtreiiumJ s c h is t o s u m. 



Tharanophis cyrtopsia Cope. Eutaenia cyrtopsis Kenn. Proc. A. N. S. Phil. 

 1860, p. 333. 



Var. c y el i d e 8 Cope. 



A single specimen from Cape St. Lucas, Mr. Xantus' coll. (Smiths. No. 5023,) 

 corresponds in most respects with Mr. Kennicott's description, but diflfers as 

 follows : The first dorsal row of scales is smooth; th:'re are no spots upon the 

 extremities of the gastrosteges ; the seventh upper labial shield is principally 

 bordered with black on its posterior border ; there are two rows of small alter- 

 nating black spots posterior to the post-occipital pair, instead of a single row 

 of large ones; on the anterior third of the body there are two rows of small 

 alternating spots, the inferior in contact with the lateral stripe, covering one or 

 two scales, the superior in contact with the vertebral, and soon disappearing. 

 The inferior series is larger near the middle of the body, but is lost posteriorly. 

 The skin is marked with the usual large spots, forming a zigzag series. The 

 head is very broad posteriorly, the muzzle short, the frontal region very de- 

 clive. 



* This species has been sent from Florida by Mr. Wiirdemann to the Smithsonian 

 Inst. Specimens obtained in Souihern Illinois by Mr. Kennicoti probably belong to the 

 same. 



t Tropidonotus anoscopus Cope. Scales small, in twenty-three rows, all 

 keeled except those of the first, which are of small size. Scale pores in pairs. Dentition 

 syncranterian. Head oval, muzzle short, obtuse, profile plane. Rostral plate twice as 

 broad as high, its labial bordfr much shorter than the nasal. Nasal plates but little 

 separated anteriorly by the prefrontals, scarcely touching the postfrontals ; nostrils sub- 

 vertical. Loreal higher than long. Preocular narrow, not in contact with the ver- 

 tical. Prefrontals very small, subtriangular ; superciliaries narrow ; vertical elongate 

 with parallel lateral borders; occipitals rounded posteriorly, bounded by one large and 

 SIX smaller temporals. Postoculars two, the inferior and half the superior in contact with 

 one temporal, also a series of small scales which separate the orbit from the superior 

 labial plates. The latter are nine in number, the seventh largest, fifth beneath the mid- 

 dle of orbit. Syinphyseal very small, transverse, ten inferior labials ; genials elongate. 

 Gastrosteges 143, one divided anal, urosteges 73; toial length 14 in., of tail 3 in. 6 lin. 

 General color above, dark plumbeous brown, with blackish vertical bars, alternate upon 

 each side, one, or one and a half scales wide, and three and a half or four scales apart. 

 Beneath dirty brownish white, each scutum brown at the base. Head and jaws brown. 



Habitat. Cuba. Mus. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



This is probably the Tropidonoius cy clopio n with 23 rows of scales of the Erpeto- 

 logie Generale. Compared with Floridan specimens, noted above as the true c y c 1 o- 

 p ium, v\ith 29 or 31 rows of scales, we observe the following peculiarities in the latter, 

 which are not shared by the former. The roslral plate is as high as broad ; the nasals 

 largely in contact with the postfrontals ; the loreal triangular, lunger than high; the pre- 

 ocular divided ; two large and one small temporal bounding each occipital ; eight superior 

 labials, twelve inferior. Seven superior labials are assigned to the cyclopionin the 

 Erpelologie Gen. In T. rhombifer, the aspect of the nares and orbits is less ver- 

 tical, the rostral plate is as high as broad, and the dorsal scales and labials are different in 

 numbers and proportions from those of the anoscopus. 



t Atretium Cope, Tropidophis Gray, 1849, not Bibron, 1843. 



1861.] 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Phimothyra grahamiae Cope^ Pr. A. N. S. Phil. 1860, p. 566. 

 This species has been sent to the Smithsonian Institute from Lower Califor- 

 nia, Mr. J. Xantus' coll. 



Phimothyra b a i r d i i Cope. Salvadora Bairdii Jan. Iconogr. des Rept. Ophid. 

 1 livr. pi. iii. fig. 2. 



This species inhabits the region of Jalapa. A specimen in Mus. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. exhibits one loreal and two preoculars on each side. 



Conophis v it tat u a Peters^ Monatsberichte Preuss. Acad. 1860. p. 521. 



The genus Conophis is allied to Phimothyra, Coniophanes and Tomodon. 

 From the first it is barely separable, differing only in the grooved posterior 

 upper maxillary; the rostral plate is quite similar to that of P. b a i r d ii. As 

 in that genus and Coniophanes, there are no scale pores. From the last two it 

 differs in the prominent rostral and convex frontal region ; Tomodon is further 

 distinguished by its single nasal. T. lineatus D. t^- ^. Erp. Gen. vii. 936, 

 is apparently congeneric with the C. v it tat us, differing specifically in its 

 elongate prefrontals, and punctate gastrosteges. Guatemala is the native coun- 

 try of the Conophis. Mus. Smithsonian, Capt. John M. Dow's coll. 



Spilotes p u 1 1 a t u s Wagler. 



The following observations are suggested by an examination often specimens 

 belonging to the museums of Philadelphia and Washington. 



Two distinct forms may be distinctly made out. In the one the scales are 

 very large, in from 15 to 18 rows, strongly keeled except the first two. Supe- 

 rior labials in four specimens seven, in one eight; the last, two-thirds the 

 height of the penultimate in three, equally high in two ; the fifth very small, 

 not reaching the postoculars in four, reaching them in one. The upper surface 

 of the head usually black, the tail and posterior third of the body black and band- 

 less, in all. Two specimens from Surinam (Mus. Acad.^, one from Trinidad 

 (Mus. Gill) and one from Venezeula (.Vlus. Smiths.) one loc. ign. The second 

 possesses 18 or 19 rows of smaller, weakly keeled scales, those of the first four 

 or five entirely smooth. Superior labials eight, the ultimate as high or higher 

 than the penultimate, the fifth large, approiching or reaching the postocular. 

 The superior surface of the head yellow, crossed by four more or less irregular 

 black cross-bands ; the posterior third of the body crossed by numerous narrow, 

 chevron formed cross-bands of yellow ; the tail annulated with the same. 

 Three specimens in Mus, Smithsonian from Mirador, Dr. Sartorius' coll. one loc? 

 Mus. A. N. S. 



The first is the " Veriinderliche Natter " of Merrem's Beitraege, Heft. 2, pi. xii., 

 and Coluber plutonius of Daudin. The C. pullatiis of Linn., Mus. Ad. Fried., 

 which is Cerastes mexicanus Laur. and Col. variabilis of Nieuwied, is represented 

 by these authors and by Seba as annulated posteriorly and upon the tail, 

 though apparently otherwise similar to the pluloiius. The second or Mexican 

 form we do not find figured or described. It may be called for the present by 

 the sub-specific appellation of auribundus. 



Pityophis vertebralis Dum. ^- Bibr. not Gunther. Pityophis haematois 

 Cope, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1860, p. 342. 



The serpent described in the Erp. Generale, and by me, as above, must be 

 identified with the Col. vertebralis of Blainville, notwithstanding the imperfect 

 figures and description of the latter auihor, and the adverse opinion of Gunther. 

 The specimens included under this head in the British Mus. Catal. obviously be- 

 long to a different species. P. vertebralis inhabits only Lower California, 

 so far as known. 



Arizona lineaticollis Cope. 



Head distinct, elongate. Rostral plate rounded in profile, much elevated, the 

 posterior angle right, not reaching postfrontals. The latter three times the 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 801 



size of the prefrontals. Vertical longer than broad, the anterior border straight, 

 as long as the occipitals. Five or six small temporals on each side. Nasal 

 plates large ; loreal longer than high. Preoculars one or two, postoculars 

 three. Superior labials eight or nine, liable to irregular subdivision ; fourth 

 and fifth, or fourth, fifth and sixth entering the orbit. Twelve inferior labials ; 

 postgenials very small. Scales small, in twenty-seven rows, the median tea 

 keeled. Tail very short. 



General color of a specimen long preserved in spirits: above light brown, 

 beneath paler. The head is without markings. On the anterior part of the 

 body two black bands, two and two halves rows of scales apart, extend for four 

 limes the length of the head and terminate each in a narrow elliptic annulus. 

 The latter are nearly confluent with the succeeding pair of annuli, which are 

 very narrow. These increase in breadth posteriorly until near the middle of 

 the body they become confluent on the median line, forming geminate open 

 spots; near the tail they lose the geminate form. Their whole number is 36 

 pairs, separate or united. Alternating with these is a small series of annuli, 

 which become elongate anteriorly, and finally become short black lines, paral- 

 lel to, and three scales from, the median pair. A few spots on the extremities 

 of the gastrosteges on the posterior part of the abdomen. Total length, 30 in.; 

 Tail, 3.9 lin. 



Habitat. Mexico. JIus. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



The American genus Arizona now embraces six species ; viz. A. e 1 e g a n s, 

 jani, pleurostictu.'!, reticulatus, deppei, and li n ea t ic o Hi s. 

 Three of these have been described by Dum. et Bibr. as belonging to their 

 genus Elaphis, i.e. Natrix Laurenti {Coluber Gtbr.), but that genus is charac- 

 terized by a differently formed rostral plate, and double aual. 



Drymobius aurigulus Coj^e. 



Of the group Masticophis B. & G. Scales in seventeen rows as in te St a- 

 c e u s, those of the median series very elongate. Crown and muzzle very 

 plane, supercilium and canthus rostralis prominent; eye moderate, muzzle 

 more elorjgate than in any other species of the genus. Rostral plate rounded, 

 prominent, recurved above. Vertical elongate, posteriorly half as wide as each 

 superciliary, not in contact with preocular. Occipitals elongate, posteriorly 

 truncate. Nasals and loreals very long, the latter encroaching much on preoc- 

 ular. Three pre-, two postoculars. Superior labials eight, fourth and fifth en- 

 tering orbit; the last equal in elevation and length to the penultimate. Inferior 

 labials ten, fifth largest ; postgeneials longer than pregeneials. 



Color above brown — becoming nearly black anteriorly. Cephalic plates 

 light brown shaded with yellow. A narrow yellow band passes round the muz- 

 zle from eye to eye. A spot on the temporal region, one on the postoculars, all 

 the labials, the chin and anterior part of the abdomen bright golden; sides of 

 the neck to the fifth row of scales ditto. On the second and third rows of 

 scales of the latter region is a black band regularly interrupted at intervals of 

 about seven scales. It finally becomes continuous, and with a band upon the 

 first row almost excludes the ground color upon the posterior and middle parts 

 of the body. Abdomen dirty yellowish. 



Proportions probably similar to those of D. taeniatus; (specimen muti- 

 lated.) 



Habitat. Cape St. Lucas, Lower California. Mr. Jus. Xantus' coll. 



This curiously marked species most resembles the D. ornatus {Masticophis 

 ornatus B. & G ) The number of rows of scales is greater ; the scales them- 

 selves are narrower ; the muzzle is more elongate — hence also the nasal and 

 loreal plates ; there is one more preocular, and the ultimate superior labial is 

 larger. (Smiths. No. 5793.) 



Lampropeltis boylii, var. c o n jun c t a Co/)e. 



It was observed in these Proceedings, 1860, p. 255, that Cape St. Lucas speci- 

 1861.] 




302 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP » 



mens had the scales ia the white cro3s bands black bordered. In specimens 

 from Fort Yuma, the black so prevails as reduce the bands to series of light dots. 

 Thus this variety is allied to the L. splendidain accordance with the gene- 

 ral resemblance of Lower California reptiles to those of Arizona and Chihua- 

 hua. 



The genus Lampropeltis, defined by Baird and Girard, and distinguished by 

 me from Coronella Laur., at p. 254 of these Proc. for 1860, is separated fiom 

 the latter genus by a peculiarity not formerly observed. The scale pores are 

 always double ; in Coronella they are single, as correctly indicated by Prof. 

 Reinhardt's table, p. 222, Vidensk. Meddel. Naturhist. Kjobenh. 1860. 



Lampropeltis p o 1 y z o n a Cope, I. c. 

 Mirador Vera Cruz, Dr. C. Sartorius. 



Lampropeltis micropholis Cope, 1. c. 



A spscimen in Mus. Smithsonian from Jlinatitlan Riv. Mexico, exhibits a few 

 more pairs of rings than a Honduras specimen. 



Hyp?iglena ochrorhynchus Cope, I.e. 1860,246. 



Inhabits the southern part of Lower California. Bears some resemblance to 

 the young of Sibon annulatus. 



Hypsiglena torquata Cope. Leptodeira torquata Gthr., Ann. Mag. N. H. 

 I860" (March). 



Inhabits Nicaragua and Laguna Id. A species nearly allied to the preced- 

 ing, differing principally in having a transverse light collar upon the neck in- 

 stead of three longiiudinal blotches. A fourth species from the valley of the 

 Rio Grande del Norle is known to me. The genus Hypsiglena can hardly be 

 regarded as other than Coronelline in form, though so closely allied to Sibon 

 among the Dipsadlnae as to be scarcely separable from it. Regarding Sibon 

 annulatus from Surinam as the true representative of that genus, the pre- 

 sent form may be distinguished by the single scale-pores, the ungrooved maxil- 

 lary teeth, the absence of tendency to irregular subdivision of lateral head- 

 plates, and perhaps by the presence of the two preoculars. The species all 

 seem to be of small size. 



Chersodromus 1 i e b m a n n i iZe/n/iorrf/, Vidensk. Meddel. Naturhist. Kjo- 

 benhavn. 1860, p. 35, Taf. iv. figs. 10, 11. 



This curious serpent, so nearly allied to the Ninias, particularly to N. d i a- 

 dem ata, has been sent from Mirador, Vera Cruz, in Dr. Sartorius' valuable 

 collection. The union of the postfrontal plates occurs only in the following 

 genera of serpents, so far as I am aware: Temnorhynchuo Sm. and Prosymna 

 Gray, in Africa. Hydromorphus Fet. Central America; Chersodromus i2A^/^. 

 Mexico, and a genus allied to Elapomorphus, from Paraguay. 



Chilomenipcus stramineus Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phil. 1860, p. 339. 



Inhabits the southern part of Lower California. Specimens in Mus. Smith- 

 sonian and Academy, from Mr. J. Xantus. 



This genus, with Toluca, Stenorhina, Chionactis and Sonora, and perhaps 

 Conopsis, forms a little group, characterized by a very prominent transverse and 

 slightly decurved rostral plate. 



The form graduates into the ordinary Calamarian type. The first mentioned 

 five genera may be thus distinguished : 



I. Prefi-ontal and nasal plates confluent.* 

 Dentition glyphodont ; scales usually poreless, Stenorhina. 



Dentition isodont; scales uniporous, Chilomeniscus. 



• To this group belongs Calamaria degenhardtii, Berth. Abhandl. Goettingen, 1847, p 8. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



II. Prefrontal and nasal plates distinct ; dentition isodont. 



a. Loreal absent. 



Scales uniporous ; vertical produced anteriorly ; one nasal, Toluca. 



b. Loreal present. 



One nasal, two postoculars ; rostral much depressed, Chionactis. 



Two nasals, three postoculars : rostral little depressed, Sonora. 



Gyalopium and Amblymetopon form another group, characterized by a 

 stout form, distinct head, and lecurved rostral shield ; size small. 



Chilomeniscus c i n c t u s Cope. 



Rostral plate projecting far backward, entirely separating the prefrontals, 

 encroaching upon the postfrontals ; the latter are in contact with the labials. 

 Nostril co%nected by suture with the fronto-nasal suture. One very small 

 preocular, two postoculars. Seven superior labials, the first longitudinal, the 

 remainder vertical except the last two, which are nearly equilateral. Sym- 

 physeal in contact with geneials. Scales broad, very smooth, in thirteen rows. 

 Tail very short. Gastrosteges 11, one divided anal ; urosteges 21 pair. Total 

 length seven inches, tail eight lines. Ground color white, with a reddish 

 tinge, encircled by sixteen black rings upon the body, and three upon the tail. 

 There are four or five scales in width, and separated by equal spaces ; they 

 are narrower on the belly. The head is black from the extremities of the oc- 

 cipital plates to the anterior part of the vertical, and to the second labial 

 plate. Chin shaded with black. 



Habitat. — Near Guaymas, east coast Gulf of California. Mus. Compar. Zo- 

 ology Cambridge, No. 24. 



The coloration is that of the species of Chionactis. 



Stenorhina 1 a c t e a Cope. 



Similar in most respects to S. v e n t r a 1 i s. Tail one-seventh of the total 

 length. Scales in seventeen rows. Occipital shields longer than in S. v e n- 

 t r a 1 i s, their common suture much longer than their supercilio-ocular. Ver- 

 tical more elongate, with shorter latero-posterior borders. Frontals broader, 

 (longitudinally) ; rostral plate more prominent. Postnasal in contact with 

 preocular by a very short suture. Seven superior labials, broader than in S. 

 v e n t r a 1 i s. Six inferior labials, the first homologically equal the first and 

 second. Preanal shield divided. 



Total length 25 inches 5 lines; tail 3 inches 7 lines. 



Color above brownish white ; beneath paler. An indistinct band passes 

 through the temple and eye to the muzzle. 



Habitat. — Guatemala. Specimen 4944. from La Union, Capt. Jno. M. Dow's 

 oil. 



Stenorhina ventralis Dum., Bibr., Cope, Pr. A. N. S. 1860, 242. 



A common serpent near Mirador, Vera Cruz, as proven by Dr. Sartorius. In 

 this species the scales are uniformly poreless ; in S. 1 a c t e a a single pore is 

 rarely seen ; in k e n n i c o 1 1 i a n a (1. c. 242) a regular pair of pores, one 

 odd, or one median pore, are sometimes observable. 



Boa e q u e s Ei/d. et Souly. 



Capt. J. M. Dow has sent this species from Guatemala to the Academy ; an- 

 other specimen in the same collection is said to have come from Caraccas. 

 Greytown, Nicaragua, is a locality whence it has been sent to the Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



The scales of the orbital ring do not always rest upon the superior labials. 

 The species is, however, easily recognized by its stout form, approximate spots, 

 short, elevated muzzle, and general dark color. The rostral plate is always 

 more constricted at the base than in B. constrictor, the labials less nu- 

 merous and more elevated. 



1861.] 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Loxocemus b i c o 1 o r Cope, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1861, p. 76. 



This genus, discovered in Guatemala by Capt. Dow, seems to confirm by its 

 structure the propriety of the arrangements of Miiller and Dumeril, in which 

 the Peropoda or Aproterodonta is regarded as an equivalent of the other 

 subordinate divisions of the Colubridas or non-venomous Eurystomata. 



According to Prof. Reinhardt, nearly all the genera of Boinse have uniporous 

 scales ; in Loxocemus they are poreless, as in the Calamarinje. Other resem- 

 blances to these serpents have been previously pointed out, loc. sup. cit. The 

 OS postfrontale is elongate falciform, articulated at its proximal extremity 

 with an anterior prolongation of the os parietale, and slightly with an os su- 

 praorbitale. Between the latter bone and the os frontale a second superor- 

 bital is intercalated. The presence of these bones, together with the biserial 

 urosteges, constitute points of affinity with the Pythons. The os nmstoideum 

 and o. quadratum are short and stout. The o. nasalia are slightly contracted 

 by the production of the o. prefrontalia, but again expand, and unite with the 

 o. frontale by an extensive suture. These two points are Erycine. The Boi- 

 nse seem, therefore, to be divisible into four subgroups — the Pythones, the 

 Boae, the Loxocemi and the Eryces. The osseous structures typical of these 

 groups are : 1st, supraorbital bones and a dentigerous intermaxillary ; 2d, no 

 supraorbitals or intermaxillary teeth ; prefrontals which separate the nasals 

 from contact with the frontals, (observed in Enygrus, Ungalia Homalochilus, 

 Boa, Chilabothrus, Eunectes, Epicrates, Xiphosoma) ; 3d, supraorbitals present, 

 intermaxillary edentulous, nasals articulating broadly with frontals, suspenso- 

 ria short, stout ; 4th, no supraorbitals or teeth on the intermaxillary ; nasals ar- 

 ticulating broadly with frontals, suspensoria short, stout. 



Lichanura trivirgata Cope. 



The genus Lichanura may be diagnosed as follows : 



General form abbreviated and stout ; tail short, thick, obtuse at the ex- 

 tremity. Head slightly distinct, elongate, subcompressed ; muzzle rather con- 

 stricted ; eye small, pupil vertical. Rostral plate elevated ; nostril between 

 two ])lates, the anterior in contact with that of the opposite side, upon the 

 median line. Posterior to these the upper surface of the head is covered with 

 smooth scales. Labial plates without pits. Scales smooth, broad, poreless. 

 Spurs conspicuous. Gastrosteges narrow. Fronto-nasal suture extensive. 



This genus of Eryces differs from Cusoria Gray in its elevated rostral plate 

 and its two nasal plates. In Cusoria there are three of the latter, and a de- 

 pressed rostral. The form, etc., of the head is somewhat similar to that of 

 Homalochilus among the true Boae, which, however, possess a nostril bor- 

 dered by three shields. Acrantophis Jan., the true position of which it would 

 be interesting to know, appears to be an ally. The irregular squamation of the 

 superior surface of the muzzle the acute tail, and partially divided urosteges 

 of that genus, separate it. 



L. trivirgata inhabits the southern region of Lower California, where 

 Mr. J. Xautus has obtained it for the Smithsonian Institution (Nos. 2277 and 

 2287) and the Academy. He found it in swamps among the mountains. Its 

 scales are in forty longitudinal rows, the inferior a little larger than the others. 

 Ten scales in the ocular ring : superior labials fourteen or fifteen, the anterior 

 three highest. Loreals, three superior vertical, two inferior horizontal. Ros- 

 tral plate prominent, elevated, recurved, quinquelateral, its labial border as 

 long as its nasal. Inferior labials fifteen, the anterior five longest. A short 

 mental fissure. Total length 25 in., tail 4 in. 



General color pale yellowish, tinged above with brown. The belly and 

 flanks are irregularly specked with liver brown. Superiorly there extend from 

 the muzzle to the end of the tail three deep liver brown bands, the median four, 

 and the two lateral, five scales wide, separated by intervals three and a half 

 scales in width. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



The coloration of this handsome Boa is altogether unique in the family. It 

 calls to mind the Phimothyra of the same region. 



Charina p 1 um b e a Cojjc. Wenona plumbea et Isabella Bd. et Grd., Catal. 

 Serp. 1853, p. 139. 



The Erycine genus Charina, established by Gray in 1849, has since, as it 

 appears to me, received the names of Wenona, (Bd., Grd.,) Rhoptrura, (Peters. 

 Monatsber. Preuss. Acad. 1858, p. 504), and Calabaria (Gray, P. Z. S. 1858, 155.) 



The two latter authors have not, however, made us acquainted with the os- 

 seous structure of the African species upon which their genera are founded. 

 In the American species the os frontale posterins is wanting, which constitutes 

 an approximation to the Tortricidse : the same peculiarity is possessed by Licha- 

 nura, though its external form does not betray the affinity thus expressed. In the 

 typical subgroup of the Eryces this bone is present. The two species ofBaird 

 and Girard's Wenona are probably identical, as suspected by Dr. Cooper, in 

 the Nat. History of Washington Territory. That the C plumbea differs 

 from C. Bottse Gray, appears to us doubtful. The former occurs at Guay- 

 mas, Sonora. Mus. Comp. Zool. Cambridge. 



TyPHLOPSIBjE. 



Stenostoma h u m i 1 e Cope. Eena humilis Baird et Girard Catal. Serp. 

 Smiths. Inst., 1853, p. 143. 



Specimens from Cape St. Lucas are identical with those from the parallel 

 of Fort Yuma, east of the mountains. In both I have found the scales to be 

 in fourteen longitudinal rows, not fifteen, as described. 



Rena B. & G. has been stated by Prof. Peters (Monatsber. Berl. Ac. 1857, 

 402) to be identical with Stenostoma Spix, as is obviously the case. The 

 second species found in the United States, S. dulce, inhabits Texas and 

 Florida {Kirtland coll.) The scales of this also I find to be in fourteen rows.* 



Of the sixteen species of serpents which Mr. Xantus has obtained near 

 Cape St. Lucas, but eight are known to inhabit other regions. Of these, the 

 Lampropeltis and Stenostoma have been found near the head of the Gulf of 

 California. The Trimorphodon may have been found in Arizona. The Phi- 

 mothyra inhabits Chihuahua, Sonora and Arizona ; the Thamnophis, Durango 

 and Coahuila ; Tropidonotus v a 11 d u s, Durango and Utah ; while CJaudisona 

 a t r o X and Drymobius testa ce us extend as far east as Texas and Ar- 

 kansas. 



Of the eight peculiar species, seven belong to genera which are represented 

 by allied species in the above regions, Lichanura only not having been found 

 elsewhere. This is evidence of the identity of the Cape fauna with the Sono- 

 ran and New Mexican, as pointed out by Prof. S. F. Baird, Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila. 1859, p. 299. 



One species of the sixteen (Lampropeltis b o y 1 i i) inhabits the State of Cali- 

 fornia, but the Lucasian specimens have much the character of those of 

 another species (L. splendida) found in Arizona. But five of the twelve 

 genera are represented in the first mentioned region. The Californian genus 

 Charina has been found at Guaymas, on the east coast of the Gulf of Califor- 

 nia, but not in Lower California. 



While two of the species inhabit Texas, seven of the genera are represented 

 there, f Those not represented are Hypsiglena, Chilomeniscus, Lichanura, 



♦ Many of the species noticed in this enumeration have been obtained through, or exist 

 only in, the museum of ihe Smithsonian Insiitution, Washington. The author desires to 

 express his acknowledgements for the opportunities obtained under the liberal constitu- 

 tion of that institution as interpreted and executed by its c^ecretary, Prof. Joseph 

 Henry, LL. D. 



tProf. Baird, Pr. A. N. S. Phil. 1859, p. 300, alludes to species allied to Arizona e le- 

 ga n s and Scotophis E m o r y i from the Cape. These I have not seen. 



1861.] 21 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Trimorpliodon ' and (?) Phimothyra. Elaps, extending westward to the Gulf 

 of California, has not yet been discovered at the Cape. 



No species has yet been found which is common to Cape St. Lucas and the 

 country of Vera Cruz and .lalapa. The genera common to both are Caudisona, 

 Drymobius, Thamnophis, Tropidonotus, Lampropeltis and Phimothyra ; all 

 found also in Texas and the Southern United States.* They form but one- 

 half of the whole number included in the Lucasian fauna. 



Genera characteristic of Jalapa, and not known to exist in Lower California, 

 Arizona, or Texas, are Catostoma, Ninia, Chersodromns, Pliocercus,t Steno- 

 rhina, Himantodes, Bothrops and Bothriechis ; all of which, except Cherso- 

 dromns, are represented in South America and intermediate localities. The 

 latter statement is true as regards Sibon, Coniophanes, and Spilotes, which 

 Jalapa shares with Texas, and of Arizona and Dryophis, which are found 

 in Sonora. Omitting Thamnophis and Lampropeltis as common to the two 

 faunse, we find here but one nearctic type (Tropidonotus) among the many neo- 

 tropical. 



We know but little of the herpetology of Guatemala west of the Cordilleras. 

 Caudisona d a r i s s a is the only serpent yet obtained there, which we suppose 

 to be found in Vera Cruz. The ten known genera are identical, excepting Loxo- 

 cemus, and ?Conophis. Other genera which have not been found north of Cen- 

 tral America, are Colobognathus, Hydrodipsas, Hydromorphus, Thamnocen- 

 chris, Dipsas, Tomodon, Xenodon, Scolecophis, Oxyrhopus ; the first four are 

 not known to extend into South America. Trimorphodon, Hypsiglena and 

 Tantilla, are the only genera known to be common to the fauna of Central 

 America and that of Lower California, Sonora and Arizona, which may be 

 called the Sonorian. 



Comparing this last subfauna with that of Southern Texas, at least five 

 degrees further south, we find that while neotropical genera are to nearctic in 

 the former in an equal proportion, in the latter they are as one to four. Of 

 five genera peculiar to the former region, four have neotropical representa- 

 tives, none nearctic. No genus is peculiar to the Texan region. Rhinochilus, 

 common and peculiar to the two regions, is nearctic in relationship. 



The probabilities are then, that the artificial line separating the neotropical 

 and nearctic groups of faunse must be placed "several degrees further north 

 on the west of the Cordilleras than on the eastern coast region. It is also 

 probable that the tropic of cancer, the line proposed by Dr. Gunther, will be 

 found to be nearly the true position of its eastern extremity. 



List of the Mollusca inhabiting the neighborhood of Philadelphia. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



Believing that the best way of obtaining an accurate knowledge of the 

 geographical distribution of species, is by the publication of numerous local 

 lists, I have prepared the following catalogue of Mollusca of our neighborhood. 

 Most of the species have been collected by myself this season. I have received 

 valuable information and assistance from several of my friends, all of which 

 is acknowledged at the proper place. I have been careful to point out the 

 principal localities, more especially to assist young collectors. 



GASTEROPODA. 

 Mblaniid.^. 

 Melania Virgin! c a Say. — Found everywhere. The specimens from the 

 Schuylkill appear to be somewhat larger than those from the Delaware. 



* Phimothyra g rahamiae has been obtained at Port Mojave, California, by Dr 

 Cooper, vid. Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1861, p. 123. 



t Is not this Elapochrus Peters ? A species inhabits New Grenada, and a third (P. 

 ao q u a 1 i s Salv.) eastern Guatemala. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



'•Finest in the Wissahickoa and Schuylkill, above the dam." (Tryon.) M. 

 multilineata Say, and the other names, quoted as occurring in this neighbor- 

 hood, are synonyms of the above. 



RiSSOIDyE. 



Leptoxis alt i lis Lea. — Very abundant at Gloucester; also found in the 

 Schuylkill, and in the ditches along Broad street, near League Island. 



Amnicola gran a. — Fairmount, Wissahickon, near Chestnut Hill, rare in 

 ditches, south Broad street, with preceding. 



A. lapidaria {Say sp.) — Under logs in a moist meadow above Red Bank, 

 N. J. This locality was first pointed out to me by my friend, Dr. G. H. Horn, 

 who discovered this species with several others in abundance. On visiting the 

 spot with him, we obtained in about an hour nearly 300 specimens of this, 

 besides other rare shells. I have never seen this shall from any other 

 locality, though Dr. Leidy informed me that he has occasionally seen single 

 individuals. 



The habitat of the animal is curious. Belonging to a genus, all the other 

 species of which, as far as I know, are strictly inhabitants of the water, we 

 found this species in a spot where it could not possibly reach water nearer 

 than a hundred yards, and associated with Helix, Succinea, Carychium, 

 Vertigo, &c. 



A. limosa Say. — Wissahickon, near Chestnut Hill, and Delaware River, 

 below Gloucester. " Schuylkill, above the dam." (Tryon.) 



A. lustrica Say. — "Wissahickon, above Chestnut Hill, under stones."' 

 (Tryon.) 



A. p or at a Say. — League Island, in ditches; Schuylkill River, at Fair- 

 mount: Wissahickon, near Chestnut Hill. 



VlVIPARID^. 



Vivipara (Paludina) d ec i s a Say. — Most numerous in the Schuylkill, and 

 at the extremity of League Island. Prefers muddy bottoms. Extremely com- 

 mon at all the mill-dams on the Wissahickon. (Tryon.) 



V. subcarinata (Say sp.) — Preponderates in the Delaware, especially 

 on the gravelly bottoms of the New Jersey side. Found also in the Schuylkill, 

 but not so common. Very good specimens occur in the Wissahickon. " Kaigha'3 

 Point, N. J., very fine specimens." (Tryon.) 



Valvatid^. 



Valvata tricarinata (Say sp.) — Rare. Found occasionally in the Wissa- 

 hickon, especially near Chestnut Hill, where it grows quite large. Delaware 

 River, (teste Say.) As far as I am aware, the variety sincera has not been seen 

 in this neighborhood. Mr. Tryon, one of the best collectors in the city, says 

 he has never seen it here. 



Helicid^s. 



Succinea oval is Gld. non Sa^. — Abundant in the meadow near Red Bank, 

 mentioned above. 



S. a vara Say. — Near the Falls of Schuylkill ; near Manayunk, on the west 

 side of the Schuylkill; near Red Bank, N. J.; " near Germantown, estate of 

 E. K. Tryon." (T.) 



Achatina lubrica Miill. — Rare. -'Isolated individuals west of the Schuyl- 

 kill." (Leidy.) 



1861.] 




308 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Vertigo m o d e s t a Gould. — Meadow near Red Bank, rare. 



Helix albolabris Say. — " Damp, shady woods and old quarries. I have 

 found them at twelve or fifteen feet elevation on the perpendicular walls of aa 

 old quarry, near Germantown." (Tryon.) 



H. alternata Say. — "New Jersey, above Cooper's Point," (Leidy,) and 

 found by Dr. Horn and myself, at various points around the city, especially at 

 •'Robison's Knoll," near the mouth of the Wissahickon, and on the west side 

 of the Schuylkill, in damp places, usually under stones. 



H. appressa Say. — "One specimen found near Germantown, on the 

 estate of E. K. Tryon." (T.) 



H. arborea Say. — Common in logs and stumps, under bark. 



H. cellaria Milll. — This species is said by Say (under the name of j9'. 

 glaphyra') to have been found in Philadelphia, but I am not aware that it has 

 since been reported by any one else. See Binney, vol. 4, p. 114. 



H. chersina Say. — Banks of Delaware, ten miles above Philadelphia, 

 (Phillips teste Say.) " Near Germantown, rare." (T.) 



H. concava Say. — I have found two specimens of this species, both west 

 of the Schuylkill, one below the Columbia Bridge, the other opposite Mana- 

 yunk. Mr. Coniad tells me that it was once very common west ef the city. 



H. electrina Gould. — Meadow near Red Bank, abundant. "One of the 

 most numerous species around Germantown," (T.) 



H. fall ax Say. — Robison's Knoll, near the mouth of the Wissahickon, 

 abundant; also found common in the woods along the Schuylkill. "Around 

 Germantown, abundant." (T.) 



H. hirsuta Say. — Robison's Knoll and west of the Schuylkill. "One of 

 our commonest species. I obtained 25 from a stump last season, and 50 more 

 from the same stump this summer." (T.) 



H. labyrinthica Say .—'E&s.i side of Schuylkill, near Falls of Schuylkill 

 village. Common near Germantown. Mr. Tryon says that this species lives 

 more exposed to the sun, and seems to need shade and moisture less than per- 

 haps any others of our native species, resembling, in this respect, the European 

 Helices. 



H. 1 i g e r a Say. — Abundant in the meadow near Red Bank, and found oc- 

 casionally in the woods west of the Schuylkill. 



H. lineata Say. — " Near Germantown." (Tryon.) 



H. monodon Racket. — Probably should be considered as identical with 

 Ursula " Germantown, one or two." (Tryon.) 



H. pulchella Mull. — Germantown (Tryon); gardens in Philadelphia 

 (Leidy) ; found by myself under bark in the woods near the Falls of Schuylkill, 

 and by Dr. Horn and myself near Red Bank. 



H. suppressa Say. — Robison's Knoll, mouth of Wissahickon. "Most 

 common of the small species, Germantown," &c. (Tryon.) 



H. thyroidus Say. — "Germantown, plentiful on the estate of E. K. 

 Trjon." (T.) 



LiMACIDiE. 



Tebennophorus Carolinensis Binn. — One specimen found by Dr. Horn 

 and two by myself, north of the city. Exact locality forgotten. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Limax agrestis 3fiiU. — Common under stones and bark, sometimes in very 

 exposed situations ; also in dark woods. 



L. campestris Binn. — Generally found with the above. I have found 

 both these species everywhere. 



Ellobiid^. 



Carychium e x i g u u m . — Meadow near Red Bank. 



LlMN.EID^. 



Limnasa catascopium Say. — Abundant in the Delaware; also found in 

 the Schuylkill ; not uncommon in the Wissabickon. 



L. columella Say. — Abundant in standing water, especially in the ditches 

 on and near League Island ; in a brick pond west of the Baltimore Railroad 

 Depot, I found it swarming; some specimens from this locality were more 

 than an inch long. I have observed it also in the ditches, and even gutters 

 along the roads in New Jersey, near Camden. Also " abundant in ponds near 

 Germantown." (T.) 



L. decidiosa Say. — Everywhere. Germantown (Tryon), Wissabickon, 

 Schuylkill, League Island, but most rarely found in the rougher waters of the 

 Delaware. This, with the L. columella, appear to prefer still and even semi- 

 stagnant water, while the other two species are rarely found but in the larger 

 streams, and generally on a sandy or gravelly bottom. Mr. Tryon thinks this 

 is the most common species of the genus in this neighborhood. 



L. fragilis Say. — This shell, if it is at all distinct from L. catascopium, is 

 always found in the same localities. I have collected it principally in the 

 Delaware, below Gloucester. I cannot see where the line is to be drawn to 

 separate this from the more elongated varieties of the other. 



Physa heterostropha Say. — Occurs in almost every body of water about 

 Philadelphia. It is the most abundant shell of our vicinity. I cannot find 

 any data on which to recognize the species P. ancillaria. I have taken hun- 

 dreds of the Physas of our waters, and tried to draw some line to separate the 

 two species ; the height of the spire, the width of the mouth, the shoulder of 

 the body whorl, all take such an infinity of forms, that, although I acknow- 

 ledge to not having examined the animals of the two typical forms, yet, from 

 the data before me, I am satisfied that these two so-called species cannot be 

 separated on any characters based on the shells. 



Planorbis armigerus Say. — " Wissabickon, rare." (T.) 



P. bicarinatus Say. — Found almost everywhere, especially in the 

 Delaware. Very abundant in the Schuylkill and its tributaries. 



P. deflectus Say. — Beach at Gloucester ; ditches. South Broad St. near 

 League Island. 



P. exacutu s. — Wissabickon, near Chestnut Hill and brick ponds west of 

 the Baltimore depot. 



P. 1 e n t u s Say. — " Delaware, and Haines' Pond, 1^- miles from Germantown. 

 Very rare." (T.) 



P. p a r V u s Say. — I have only found this species at Gloucester. •' Ditches, 

 South Broad St." (Tryon.) 



P. trivolvis Say. — Common in the Delaware, more rare in the Schuylkill. 

 "All the ponds around Germantown, but always rarer than bicarinatus." (T.) 



Ancylus rivularis? Say.— On stones in the Schuylkill, above the dam. 

 Rare in the Wissabickon. 1 am not quite positive about the identification of 



1861.J 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



this species, after a comparisoo with the original of the figure in Haldeman's 

 monograph. It corresponds more nearly with this species than any other how- 

 ever, and I have yielded to the opinion of Mr. Tryon, who thinks this to be the 

 species. 



CONCHIFERA. 



CyEENIDjE. 



Sphaerium sulcatum Lam. (^Cyclas similis Say.) — Wissahickon ; Delaware, 

 opposite the city, and in the ditches of League Island, where the finest speci- 

 mens are found. Also, more rarely, in the Schuylkill. " A very small species 

 of sphcerium is found in Tryon's pond." (Tryon.) See Hartraan's Cat. Shells of 

 Chester Co. 



Pisidium abditum Say. — Generally found with S. sulcatum, but more rare. 



Unionidje. 



Uniocariosus Say. — Most abundant about Gloucester. "Very common 

 at Bristol and Tacony, and in the canal through Smith's Island." (T.) 



U. complanatus Lea. — Everywhere. The best specimens are found at 

 the extremity of League Island, and in the still waters of the Schuylkill. On 

 gravelly bottoms the beaks are often very much worn. I found one specimen 

 at the lower end of Peter's Island, in the Schuylkill, with two lateral teeth in 

 each valve. " Very fine specimens at Kaighn's Point." (Tryon.) 



U. Fisherianus Lea. — I discovered one specimen of this shell in the 

 Schuylkill above Girard Avenue bridge. This is the only occasion, I believe, 

 on which it has been seen so far north. 



U. heterodon Lea. — Rare. Schuylkill below the Fairmount dam, (Lea.) 

 Mr. A. J. Schaf hirt found it on one occasion above the dam. " Darby Creek." 

 Lea. 



U. nasutus Say. — Everywhere. The principal localities are Gloucester, 

 the Schuylkill river above the dam at Fairmount, and the extremity of League 

 Island. At the latter place the largest individuals are found, and those from 

 Gloucester sometimes exhibit the colored rays. " Little Perkiomen Creek, with 

 a dark brown epidermis and more ponderous than usual." (Tryon.) 



U. ochraceus Say. — More abundant at Gloucester than elsewhere, but 

 occasionally found in the Schuylkill and Wissahickon. "There is noplace 

 where this shell attains such perfect magnificence as at League Island." Tryon. 



U. radiatus Lam. — Same as the preceding species. " Very good speci- 

 mens at League Island." (Tryon.) 



U. Tappanianus Lea. — Is an inhabitant of the Schuylkill River, and may 

 possibly be found near the city. 



Margaritana undulata Lea. — Comparatively common in the Schuylkill 

 and Wissahickon. Occasionally met with in the Delaware. "Magnificent, 

 though rare, in the head waters of Frankford Creek, on the North Pennsylvania 

 Railroad." (T.) 



M. rugosa Say. — ' Same locality." (T.) 



Anddonta flu via til is Lea. — Fine specimens occur in a dam on Mill 

 Creek, at a place called Mill Town, two miles above Frankford. Not common 

 in the Wissahickon or Schuylkill, but abundant at the extremity of League 

 Island in the ditch and in the river. Also abundant at Gloucester. "Robert's 

 Pond, 22d Ward; Wingohocking Creek and Silver Lake, near Germantown, at 

 the latter place specimens have been taken 4J inches wide." (T.) 



A. i m p 1 i a t a Say. — Gloucester, Newtown Creek and League Island. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



Oct. \st. 



Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" On the American Chilopoda, with a Catalogue of all the specimens 

 in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution," by Horatio C. Wood, Jr. 



" Description of a new species of Thelyphonus," by Horatio C. 

 Wood, Jr. 



" On the Reptiles of Sombrero and Bermuda," by E. D. Cope. 



Description of a new species of Rodent of the genus Sperraophilus," 

 by J. H. Slack, M. D. 



Oct. Sth. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-uine members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"Description of new Cretaceous Fossils, collected by the North- 

 western Boundary Commission on Vancouver and Lucia Islands," by 

 F. B. Meek. 



" Descriptions of new species of Cretaceous Fossils from New Jersey, 

 Alabama and Mississippi," by Wm. M. Gabb. 



Oct. 22d. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Catalogue of Land and Fresh-water Molluscs, collected in British 

 North America by Messrs. Kennicott and Drexler, and deposited in the 

 Smithsonian Institution," by W. G. Binney. 



" Notes on the Molluscs of the Peninsula of California," by W. G. 

 Binney. 



" Description of two new species of Helix," by A. D. Brown. 



Oct. 2dth. 



Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the paper entitled 



" On the American Chilopoda, with a Catalogue of all the specimens 



in the Collection of the Smithsonian Institution," by Horatio C. Wood, 



Jr., was ordered to be published in the Journal, and the following in 



the Proceedings : 



1861.] 




1 



312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Description of a new species of the genus THELYPHONUS. 

 By HORATIO C. WOOD, JR. 



T. stimpsonii . — Cephalo-thorax closely resembling that of T. g i g a n- 

 1 6 u s. Cheliceres strongly curved. Their superior surface roughened by mi- 

 nute tubercles or granulations, the inner, pilose. The first or basal joint very 

 wide above, armed on its inner superior margin with five irregularly radiating 

 spines, the posterior three of which are quite small, and the third some- 

 what longer than the other two ; the fourth is rather larger, its length being 

 about twice that of the third, the fifth is shorter than the fourth, but is next 

 to it in size. The space between the fourth and fifth is greater than the inter- 

 vals between the others. The inferior inner margin armed with two small spines. 

 Second joint provided with a very minute spine on its superior, and a larger 

 one on its inferior inner margin. The third joint has on its superior inner 

 margin two minute spines and a long robust finger, bifid at its extremity and 

 strongly ferrate on its anterior edge. The superior inner margin of the fourth 

 joint and both margins of its finger strongly serrate. Abdomen very similar 

 to that of T. g ig ante u s, but the first joint has on its lower surface a deep 

 median semicircular depression, with a much smaller one on each side. 



We have seen but a single specimen brought from Japan by Dr. Stimpson 

 of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition. 



Length of body one inch and a half, of cheliceres three quarters of an inch. 



On the Beptilia of Sombrero and Bermuda. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



The only terrestrial animal inhabitants of the island of Sombrero, are stated* 

 to be a centipede and a lizard. The former is the Scolopendra torquataof 

 Wood ; the latter I propose now first entering upon the zoological record. 



Ameiva c o r v i n a Cope. — Teeth in young and half grown specimens bicus- 

 pid posteriorly, occasionally a third cusp ; in adults a few of the posterior 

 maxillaries and mandibulars bicuspidate, the smaller cusp antero-internal. 

 Number 20. 5-5. 20 ; 21. 21. Head and in particular the muzzle, narrow, elon- 

 gate, slightly decurved. No-tril in internasal, or nasal suture. The former 

 plates slightly in contact medially. Fronto-nasal longer than broad ; prefrontals 

 ditto, extensively in contact medially. Four supra-oculars, posterior very 

 small, the suture between second and third continuous with the posterior line 

 of the frontal plate. The latter is hexagonal, a little longer than broad ; pre- 

 sents a sub-rectangle anteriorly, and an obtuse angle posteriorly. Two fronto- 

 occipitals, longer than broad, usually in contact, forming with the two occipi- 

 tals on each side a series curving outwards, separated by granulations from 

 the supra-ocular series. , Interoccipital irregular, sometimes divided. Numer- 

 ous small irregular plates upon the occiput. Kostral a little prolonged upon 

 each labial suture. Superior labials six, inferior five, in contact posteriorly with 

 two oval plates. Symphyseal and mental each broader than long ; iufralabials 

 five, anterior pair extensively in contact, the posterior separated by granulations 

 from labials. Gular scales small, smooth, hexagonal ; those of the posterior 

 gular fold larger than those of the anterior. Ventral plates in twelve or four- 

 teen series, those of the external, small, rounded. Anus bordered with gran- 

 ules : anal plates four, large, arranged as part of a quincunx pattern, surrounded 

 by several smaller shields. One row of large transverse anterior femoral plates, 

 and four series of subhexagonal plates posterior and inferior to it. Exterior sub- 



*Mr. J. B. Hanson, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1859, p. 111. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 313 



tibial series of nine plates, fifth and sixth from the foot largest ; inner rows 

 three. Heel devoid of tubercles ; soles uniformly granular. Scales of the tail- 

 whorls weakly keeled. Scales of back and sides very small, smooth, rounded. 

 An antibrachial patch of six or seven narrowly transverse shields ; posterior 

 brachial patch not defined, composed of small hexagonal scales. Palm with 

 two small tubercles near base of external digit. Femoral pores 36 in male, 

 32 in female. Length of head and body to vent, 4 in. 10 1., vent to end of 

 tail 11 in. 4 1., head to posterior gular fold 1 in. 7 1., femur (anterior) 1 in., 

 tibia (external) 10 lin., foot with fourth digit, 1 in. 7 1, 



Color, black ; the lower surfaces tinged with glaucous green. 



This addition to the numerous list of Ameivse fills a new position in the 

 genus. It is not closely allied to any species known to us, though its facies 

 is much that of A. d o r s a 1 i s of Jamacia. Museums Acad. Nat. Sci. (Mr. 

 Hanson,) and Smithsonian, (Mr. A. H. Ruse.) 



We are informed by Mr. .1. M. Jones, in his " Naturalist in Bermuda," that a 

 species of " Scincus " inhabits the islands, and that it is the only indigenous true 

 reptile. He notices its resemblance to Plestiodon laticeps("^. fasciatus,") 

 of the United States, and gives a description of an old male specimen. The 

 Smithsonian Institute having liberally loaned us specimens (No. 4737) ob- 

 tained by Hon. J. H. Darrell, I am enabled to state its specific characters, as 

 follows. 



Plestiodon longirostris Cope. — Form much as in P. la t ice p s, the 

 tail a little thicker, the muzzle more narrow and elongate. The anterior ex- 

 tremity extended forward reaches the anterior border of the orbit ; the pos- 

 terior reaches to beyond the appressed elbow, but not to the axilla. Rostral 

 plate as high as broad, less depressed than inlaticeps: nasal small ; naso- 

 frenal smaller, trapezoid ; anterior frenal as long as high. Eight superior 

 labial plates, the sixth and seventh bordering the inferior palpebra. Each 

 occipital bounded by two temporals, (sometimes confluent) and a postoccipital ; 

 the anterior temporal bounded by two inferior temporals, the anterior small, 

 the posterior larger than the eighth upper labial. Inter-occipital large, 

 rounded posteriorly, very acute anteriorly. Fronto-parietal plates gemmi- 

 form, in contact by their inner angles. Supra oculars four ; anterior supra- 

 ocular small, barely or not in contact with the fronto-nasal. Inferior palpebra 

 granular ; a series of six to eight vertical scales beneath the marginal row. 

 Supranasals large, considerably in contact ; internasal transverse subtruncate 

 posteriorly ; fronto-nasals as long, or more frequently longer than broad, ex- 

 tensively in contact. Frontal elongate, in front obtuse, posteriorly acute angled. 

 Inferior labials seven ; symphyseal deeper than inlaticeps;a large seven- 

 sided mental in contact with two labials on each side, two infralabials pos- 

 teriorly, and tlie symphyseal anteriorly. Three transverse infralabials on each 

 side, the anterior not separated by a postmental. Three slightly prominent 

 granules upon tlie superior part of anterior auricular border. Digits com- 

 pressed ; of the posterior the fourth has twice the extent of the fifth. Sole 

 tuberculous externally and internally ; medially granular ; palm tuberculous 

 posteriorly. Scales small, especially upon the sides ; rows from 39 to 42. 

 Preanal plates four, the median pair very large, the exterior very small. 

 Total length 6 in. 6 lin., tail 3 in. 9 lin. Color above, from rusty to ashy brown, 

 paler on the tail. A white line commences at the anterior angle of the orbit, 

 and extending above the latter, reaches as far as the crural region. It is mar- 

 gined with black superiorly, and separated from that of the opposite side by 

 eight rows of scales. Beneath it, the sides are black or brownish for a width 

 of three and a half scales, beneath which shade is another narrow white line, 

 extending from beneath the orbit to the groin. The dark color of the sides 

 extends upon the tail for one-third its length. The under surface of this mem- 

 ber, of the extremities and belly, greenish blue ; throat and chin yellowish. 

 In younger specimens a light line upon each canthus rostralis is analogous 

 to those which unite and form the median dorsal band in P. 1 a t i c e p s. 



1861.] 




S14 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



There are nearly ten more rows of scales in this species than in P. 

 laticeps; the latter has six preanal plates, of which the median pair is not 

 so disproportionately large ; also the frenals and nasofrenal are narrow and 

 erect. 



Description of a new Species of Eodent of the Genus SPERMOPHILUS, 



from Texas. 



BY J. H. SLACK, M. D. 



Spermophilus BcrcKLEYi, n. s.— Size about equal to that of the Sciurus cine- 

 reus. Neck, limbs, sides and posterior half of body, grizzled white and black, 

 the hairs being black at the base and annulated with broad bands of black and 

 yellowish white ; a broad black patch commencing at the tip of the nose, 

 covering the shoulders and terminating in a point at about the tenth dorsal 

 vertebra, tail about two-thirds the length of the body, covered with long an- 

 nulated hairs. Ears small. Soles naked. 



Measurements from the dried skin. — Body, 13 inches ; tail to end of vertebrae, 

 7*5 ; to end of hairs, 11 ; hind feet, 2-3. ' Length of lower jaw, 1-5. 



Habitat, Pack-saddle Mountain, Llano Co., Texas. 



This curious Spermophile was presented to the Academy by Mr. S. R. Buck- 

 ley, of the Texas Geological Survey. It was captured alive by one of his 

 party, and kept by Mr. Buckley for some time as a pet. He describes it as very 

 gentle and docile. Its favorite food was acorns, green oak balls and milk ; of 

 the latter it appeared extremely fond. Its voice he describes as similar to the 

 chirping of a young robin. This species is quite abundant in the vicinity of 

 Pack-saddle Mountain. It is gregarious and resides in the holes and clefts of 

 the rocks. When alarmed it runs along the faces of the almost perpendicular 

 clififs with great agility, its body, from the shortness of its limbs, appearing 

 to touch the ground. The specimen as presented is unfortunately in a very 

 bad condition, consisting of a flat furrier's skin apparently much distorted, 

 and the lower jaw. 



Descriptions of new Cretaceous Fossils collected by the North-Weitern 

 Bonndary Commission, on Vancouver and Sucia Islands. 



BY P. B. MEEK. 



The fossils described in this paper are the new species contained in the 

 colleciions of the North-Western Boundary Survey. Full illustrations, and more 

 extended descriptions of these and other species formerly described by the 

 writer, from Vancouver Island, will appear in the Report of that Survey ; which 

 will also contain a report by Mr. George Gibbs, geologist of the expedition, on 

 the general geology of the country along the boundary line. 



In 1857 I announced the discovery of Cretaceous rocks on Vancouver Island, 

 in a paper published in the fourth volume of the Transactions of the Albany 

 Institute. The species described in that paper, as therein stated, were evidently 

 from two distinct rocks, one of which was unhesitatingly referred to the Cre- 

 taceous system ; while the other, — owing to the fact that all the specimens 

 obtained from it belonged to new species, of genera common to the Cretaceous 

 and Jurassic, — was regarded as doubtful, though probably also of cretaceous 

 age. 



A subsequent examination, however, of these last mentioned specimens, 

 (from Nanaimo, on Vancouver Island) led me to suspect from the affinities of 

 fome of the species, that they might be Jurassic, which was stated in a letter to 

 Dr. Newberry, who mentioned it in his report on the Geology of Capt. William- 

 son's Pacific Rail Road Survey. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



A careful review of the subject, with the aid of the more extensive collections 

 brought in by the Boundary Survey, fully establishes the correctness of my 

 first suggestion in regard to the Cretaceous age of the doubtful beds at 

 Nanaimo. The species from the other rock referred at first to the Cretaceous, 

 although sent to the Smithsonian Institution mingled with others from 

 Nanaimo, are now known to be from Komooks, a locality some seventy miles 

 north-west of Nanaimo, on the eastern shore of Vancouver Island. 



Of these two Cretaceous formations, that at Nanaimo is apparently the older ; 

 while the deposits on Sucia Islands, (a small group in the Gulf of Georgia, 

 about seventy miles south-east of Nanaimo) belong to the same horizon as the 

 Komooks beds. 



Descriptions of Species. 



LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. 



Inoceramus subdndatus. — Shell (left valve) broad ovoid or subcircular in 

 outline, rather compressed ; anterior margin rounding regularly from near the 

 beaks into the base, so as to form with the latter a semicircular curve ; pos- 

 terior side rather irregularly rounded, its most prominent part being near the 

 middle, hinge margin straight, equalling about half the entire length of the 

 shell : and ranging at an angle of near 55° above the axis of the umbonal 

 prominence ; beak occupying a position nearly over the anterior margin, rather 

 small, and rising little above the hinge. Surface ornamented by moderately 

 distinct, regular concentric folds, which are stronger on the most convex part 

 of the valve, and become nearly or quite absolute around the free borders. The 

 outer fibrous layer (which is exfoliated from the specimens examined) is, doubt- 

 less, marked also by concentric striae. 



Length, 3-45 inches; height, 2-94 inches; breadth or convexity about 0-75 

 inch. 



This species resembles /. Barabini of Morton, (specimens of which are con- 

 tained in the North- Western Boundary collections from Sucia Island in the 

 Gulf of Georgia.) It differs, however, in being more compressed than the corre- 

 sponding valve of that species. It is also much less regularly rounded pos- 

 teriorly, and the curve of its concentric folds is different. It may be dis- 

 tinguisbed from /. Vancouverensis of Shumard, by having its beak very much 

 less gibbous, and less prominent. 



Locality. Komooks, eastern shore of Vancouver Island. 



DosiKiA? TENUIS. — Shell circular, or very slightly oval, extremely thin, and 

 much compressed ; lateral and basal margins regularly rounded, and very thin 

 and sharp ; beaks small, compressed, central, and projecting little above the 

 dorsal margin ; lunule small and rather deep ; surface marked by fine concentric 

 striae. 



Length and height each 1-26 inches ; convexity about, 0-22 inch. 



As neither the hinge, nor the interior of this species has been seen, it is only 

 referred provisionally to the ganus Dosinia. It has much the appearance of a 

 Lucina, but casts of the anterior muscular scar visible on some specimens, show 

 these impressions to differ from those of Lucina. It seems to be closely allied 

 to Dosinia lenticularis (Arteinis lenticiiluris) of Forbes, from the Cretaceous at 

 Pondicherry, Southern India, (Trans. Geol. Soc. Lond. vol. vii. pi. 18, fig. 7.) 



Locality. Nanaimo, Vancouver Island. 



Mactra Gibbsana. — Shell transversely oval, or subtrigonal, moderately con- 

 vex, rather thin; anterior side narrowly rounded ; base forming a regular semi- 

 elliptical curve ; posterior side slightly truncated at the immediate extremity, 

 abruptly rounded or subaugular at its connection with the base below ; dorsal 

 outline sloping from the beaks in front and behiud, at an angle of about 120* ; 

 beaks central, rather elevated, but small, and not projecting much above the 



1861.] 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



hinge margin ; surface marked only by moderately distinct lines of growth. 

 Posterior muscular impression oval, well defined; pallial line distinct, and 

 provided with a rather deep, horizontal sinus, about one-third longer than wide . 



Length, 2-04 inches ; height, 1-50 inches ; breadth or convexity, 1 inch. 



Mr. Conrad has described & Mac Ira similar to this, under the name of M. 

 albarea, from the Tertiary rocks on the Columbia River. (Am. Jour. Sci. vol. 

 5, sec. ser. p. 434.) The species before me, however, is proportionally longer 

 transversely, and less gibbous. It also differs in being destitute of a distinct 

 angle down the posterior umbonal slopes. 



The specific name is given in honor of Mr. George Gibbs, the geologist of the 

 North-Western Boundary Survey. 



Locality. The specimens were all found in a loose piece of hard greenish 

 gray sandstone, on the Straits of Fuca ; and I have been unable to determine 

 whether they belong to the Cretaceous or Tertiary epoch. I incline to the 

 opinion, however, that they belong to the latter. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Bacdlites INORNATUS. — Shell of medium size, straight, very gradually taper- 

 ing, and moderately compressed; section and aperture regularly ovate, the 

 ventral side being a little more broadly rounded than the dorsal ; lip deeply 

 sinuous on each lateral margin, near the ventral side, and provided with a long 

 linguiform extension on the dorsal margin, while its ventral edge presents a 

 nearly semicircular outline. Surface entirely destitute of costae, nodes, or 

 undulations ; lines of growth moderately distinct, and curving gracefully 

 parallel to the prominences, and deep sinuosities of the lip. 



The largest fragment of this species in the collection measures 1*49 inches 

 in its greater diameter, and 1-13 inches in its smaller, and judging from its very 

 gradual taper, appears to have been, when entire, as much as 15 or 16 inches in 

 length. It differs from B. ovatus of Say, in being entirely destitute of undula- 

 tions, at all ages, and in being usually smaller, and proportionally more slender . 

 It also presents differences in the details of its septa, lobes and saddles, which, 

 however, cannot be clearly explained without the use of figures. 



Locality. Sucia Island, Gulf of Georgia. 



Baculites occidkntalis. — BacuUtea ovatus {Ssijl) Meek, 1857, Transactions 

 Albany Inst. vol. iv. p. 48. 



Shell straight, and very gradually tapering ; section subtrigonal to- 

 wards the larger end, but becoming more nearly ovate towards the smaller 

 extremity ; ventral side flattened, ventro-lateral margins angular ; sides con- 

 verging with a slightly convex outline from the ventro-lateral angles, to the 

 very narrowly rounded, or obtusely angular dorsum ; aperture subtrigonal ; 

 ventral projection of the lip nearly semicircular; that of the dorsal side much 

 longer, somewhat wedge-shaped, but a little rounded at its narrow extremity ; 

 lateral sinuses of the lip rounded, with a long, nearly straight, oblique margin 

 on the dorsal side. Surface ornamented with rather small, regular undula- 

 tions or costae, extending across from the ventro-lateral angles to, or beyond, 

 the middle of each side, with a regular curve parallel with the margins of the 

 lateral sinuses of the lip ; fine regular lines of growth are also seen traversing 

 the shell parallel to the dorsal and ventral projections, and lateral sinuosities 

 of the lip. 



The specimens examined are all too imperfect to give accurate measure- 

 ments, but so far as can be determined from the taper, of those most nearly 

 entire, an individual measuring 1-45 inches in its greater transverse diameter, 

 and one inch in its smaller do., near the aperture, must have been about 14 to 

 16 inches in length. 



The peculiar flattening of the ventral side of this species, is a character that 

 will at once distinguish it from any other Baculite with which I am acquainted. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



This characer, however, is not always so distinctly marked near the smaller 

 extremity, as along the larger half of the shell, where it imparts to the trans- 

 verse section a trigonal outline. In the form of its septa lobes, it is more 

 nearly related to B. compressus of Say. than to B. ovatus of that author, though 

 its form alone will readily distinguish it from either of these species. 



At the time I published the paper on some Cretaceous fossils from Vancouver 

 Island, cited at the head of this description, only a few fragments of this species 

 were in the collection examined. Thinking the flattening of the ventral side of 

 these probably due to accidental pressure, I referred them provisionally to B. 

 ovatus of Say. At the same time, however, I suspected they might belong to a 

 distinct species, and suggested for it, in case farther comparisons should prove 

 it to be new, the name B. occidentalism which is here adopted. 



Locality. Komooks, eastern shore Vancouver Island. 



Ammonites complexus var. Suciaensis. — Ammonites complexus, Hall & Meek, 

 1856, Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. vol. 5, new ser. pi. 4, fig. 1, a. b. 



This shell agrees almost exactly in form with A. complexus, excepting that it 

 is more compressed, its volutions being distinctly narrower transversely, in pro- 

 portion to their diameter from the dorsal to the ventral side, than in that 

 species. In its septa, it agrees very closely also with A. complexus, the differ- 

 ences observable being apparently such as may be due to the larger sizes of the 

 specimens of the form under consideration. 



The largest specimen in the collection is from Sucia Island. It is an internal 

 cast, and so much worn as to obliterate much of the details of the lobes and 

 saddles. It consists entirely of septate whorls, the outer non-septate portion 

 having been broken away. In its greatest diameter, it measures 4-60 inches, 

 and 1-90 inches in breadth or thickness. 



It is possible this shell may prove to be specifically distinct from A. complexus, 

 but with my present means of comparison I do not feel fully warranted in 

 separating it. 



In the number, arrangement, and mode of branching of its septa lobes, as 

 seen in some of the smaller sized specimens from Komooks, it is also very 

 closely allied to A. Gollevillensis, of D'Orbigny (=-4. Lewisiensis, D'Orb. 

 Pal. Fr. tome 1. Cret. pi. 101, non Sowerby) ; though it is a more ventricose 

 shell, and wants the dorsal groove so characteristic of that species. Its cos'je 

 also differ in being more strongly defined on the inner half of the whorls. 



Locality and position. Sucia Island, and at Komooks on Vancouver Island. 



Ammonites Vancouverensis. — Shell discoid ; volutions increasing rather 

 gradually in size, strongly compressed on the sides, and flattened on the narrow 

 dorsum, nearly twice as broad from the dorsal to the ventral side, as the 

 transverse diameter, — rather deeply embracing; umbilicus of moderate depth, 

 about half as wide as the greater diameter of the outer whorl ; aperture (as 

 inferred from a section of the outer whorl) compressed cordate. Surface 

 ornamented by a row of compressed nodes along each dorso-lateral margin, 

 and another of smaller size around each umbilicus; about twenty of the first, 

 and ten of the latter, may be counted on each side of an entire turn. 



The flattened sides between the dorsal and ventral rows of nodes, are pro- 

 vided with obscure, slightly arching, transverse cos's, one of which extends 

 from each of the umbilical nodes towards the dorsal margin, but all become 

 obsolete before reaching it. Between each two of these principal costae, one or 

 two more very obscure ones are seen, which do not reach either the dorsal or 

 ventral margins. 



The specimen from which the foregoing description was made out, consists 

 of about the half of one volution, most of which is uon-septate. When entire, 

 the shell must have measured about .3-85 inches in its greatest diameter, and 

 near 1-13 in breadth at the aperture. It seems to be closely allied to A. 

 Leopoldianus, of D'Orbigny (Pal. Fr. Ter. Cret. t. 1, pi. 22, 23) but differs from 



1861.] 




318 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



D'Orbigny's figures (on pi. 23) in being more compressed near the dorsum, and 

 in having only about half as many nodes around its dorsal and ventral 

 margins. It also differs in having scarcely any traces of costse near the dorso- 

 lateral nodes (where they are strongest on D'Orbigny's figure just cited) while 

 they are strongest near the middle of its sides. 

 Locality. Komooks, eastern shore Vancouver Island. 



Nautilus Campbelli. — Shell large, subglobose, or somewhat oral in form, 

 moderately convex ; dorsum and sides rounded, or very slightly compressed ; 

 volutions increasing rather gradually in size, deeply embracing within, and 

 rounding into the umbilicus on each side ; umbilicus very small, but not quite 

 closed ; septa separated by spaces less than one third the transverse diameter of 

 the whorls at the point of measurement, and arching slightly backwards on the 

 sides and dorsum ; aperture nearly circular, but deeply sinuous on the ventral 

 side for the rtception of the inner whorls. (Siphuncle and surface markings 

 unknown). 



Length or greatest diameter, 4-83 inches ; breadth or transverse diameter at 

 the apeiture, 3-07 inches. • 



This species is more nearly like N. Clemmtinus of D'Orbigny, (Pal. Fr. Ter. 

 Cret. tome 1, pi. 13 bis) than any other with which I am acquainted. It 

 differs, however, in having a more rounded aperture, and a more broadly 

 rounded dorsum, the entire shell being less compressed. 



It may be at once distinguished from Nautilus Dekayi of Morton, which 

 probably also occurs in the Cretaceous beds of Vancouver's Island, by its much 

 more compressed form, and consequently narrower aperture, as well as by its 

 slightly open umbilicus, — that of N. Dekayi being entirely closed at all ages. 

 Its whorls are likewise more compressed on the sides, and more concave in the 

 region of the umbilicus. 



The specific name of this fine Nautilus is given in honor of Mr. Archibald 

 Campbell, the commissioner in charge of the North-West Boundary Survey. 



Locality, same as last. 



Description of New Species of Cretaceous Fossils from New Jersey, Alabama 



and Mississippi. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



The following species are described from specimens, either in the collection 

 of ihe^Academy of Natural Sciences, or in my own. The types are mostly in 

 the shape of casts, but are all undoubtedly distinct. It is an unfortunate cir- 

 cumstance, that, except in the Ripley Group, this formation, east of the Missis- 

 sippi, rarely yields the shells of the species. In fact, the study of cretaceous 

 fossils, in this region, is to a great extent, a study of internal casts. The 

 Pectens, Oysters, Belemnites, and some other genera, are usually exceptions 

 to this rule ; though, sometimes, we find striking instances in which the shells 

 of other genera are beautifully preserved. The following descriptions are pre- 

 liminary. Fuller descriptions and illustrations will be published hereafter. 



Action Montf. 



A. creiacea. — Subglobose, spire elevated, whorls five, convex (in casts) 

 and sloping on the sides, obliquely truncated above. Body whorl sub-com- 

 pressed, most convex above, width about equal to the length of the mouth. 

 Mouth narrowed above, wide below, rounded anteriorly. Two folds on the 

 columella ; the upper one heavy and rounded, lower or anterior one, obsolete. 

 The columellar edge of the body whorl in one of the casts is marked by acute- 

 angular striae, one branch extending directly upwards on the outside of the 

 whorls (inside of the shell), and soon becoming obsolete ; the other branch runs 

 into the columellar cavity. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 819 



Length about 1 inch (when perfect), width of body whorl -6 in. 

 From Crosswicks, N. J. My coll. from Dr. Slack. 



[Resembles Solidula buUata nohia, (TornateUa id. Morton), but is a smaller 

 species, the spire is higher, the whorls are more flattened on the sides, and 

 truncated above, and from a cast of the surface, we believe the exterior to be 

 smooth, while on Morton's type, an internal cast, distinct revolving lines are 

 visible. 



A. ovoidea. — Elongated ovoid, spire high, number of whorls uncertain, 

 flattened, carinate (in casts) on their upper edge. Body whorl regularly, but 

 very gently convex. Mouth longer than the diameter of the body whorl ; acu- 

 minate above, rather narrow to beyond the middle, gradually widening and 

 rounded in advance. One large fold on the columella with a broadly rounded 

 one, not prominent, in advance of it. From faint signs on the surface, there 

 can be detected traces of apparently rather broad longitudinal ribs and revolv- 

 ing lines. 



Length of body and preceding whorl 1 in., total length, perhaps, about 1.25 

 in. Width of body whorl, '6 in. Length of mouth, -8 in. 



Found with the preceding and presented to me by my friend Dr. Slack. 



These two species, with most, if not all of the New Jersey specimens here 

 described, are from the second division of the cretaceous, following the New 

 Jersey Geological Reports. It is the same deposit as that at the deep cut of 

 the Delaware and Chesapeake Caaal from which Dr. Morton obtained Scaphites 

 hippocrepis and many other species. It seems to be the richest of the three 

 divisions in species. 



The present species can be distinguished from the preceding one by the pro- 

 portionate length of the mouth and narrowness of the body whorl, and the 

 acute upper edge of the whorl. The difference in the columella folds cannot be 

 satisfactorily pointed out without a figure. 



Globiconcha d'Orb. 



G. c u r t a . — Subglobose, spire exsert, but short, nearly equal in height to 

 the length of the mouth. Whorls four (or five ? ), rounded. Body whorl tumid. 

 Mouth acuminate above, broadly rounded below. Surface? (a cast.) 



Length, -75 in. Width of body whorl, -6 in. Length of mouth, -45. 



A cast from the cretaceous limestone of Comanche Peak, Texas, in my col- 

 lection. Presented by Dr. Moore, the State geologist of that State. 



This may be a short, tumid species of PhasianeUa, but these two genera 

 approach each other so closely in some of the forms, that it is impossible to 

 decide from a cast. It does not resemble any of the species heretofore des- 

 cribed in this country. P. [Glohichoncha) tumida has a high spire. G. elevatu 

 is still further removed. It approaches most nearly to G. planata, Roem., but 

 independent of the difference in size, the spire is proportionally much higher, 

 the mouth is narrowed above and is produced, regularly rounded below, 

 without having the oblique truncation upwards shown in Roemer's figure. 

 The body whorl is equally prominent, but is regularly rounded. 



Natica Adanson. 



N. infracarinata . — Gibbous, spire low ; whorls three ; rapidly increas- 

 ing in size, rounded, compressed above, angle of the whorl round, surface of 

 about the same convexity as JV. abyssinis. Lower angle of the whorl, at the 

 edge of the umbilicus, usually strongly carinate in the casts, sometimes rather 

 faintly. Umbilicus patulous, perspective ; open probably to the extreme spire. 

 Mouth elongate, rather narrow, broad above, and acuminate at the lower 

 extremity. Surface of the shell in the umbilicus striate transversely to the 

 direction of the whorls, and marked by a small revolving line. Outer surface 

 unknown. 



Height, 1-20. Width of body whorl, 1-25. Length of mouth, 1 in. 



1861.] 




320 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



From the same formation, in N. J., as the preceding species of Acteon. My 

 Coll., and Coll. Acad. 



Closely related in general form to iV. abyssinis. The measurements are 

 somewhat different. Dr. Morton's type measures, Height, 1 in. Width of 

 body whorl, 1-30 in. Length of mouth, 9 in. The most obvious difference is 

 in the shape of the lower edge of the whorls. In N. abyssinis only known from 

 casts, it is regularly rounded. In this species it is carinate. The species 

 may prove to belong to the genus Gyrodes Con., on account of the wide um- 

 bilicus, apparently without a callus, and the flattened top of the whorl. 



LuNATiA Gray. 



? L. altispira. — Elevated subglobose. Spire rather high ; whorls four, 

 rounded, abruptly truncated or concave above. Body whorl gibbous. Mouth 

 broad, rounded. Umbilicus (in casts) small, perforated rather deeply. No 

 markings on the casts. 



Length, '8 in. Width of body whorl, -7 in. Length of mouth, -6 in. 



Found with the preceding. My Coll., Coll. Acad. 



Approaches most nearly to L. rectilabrum = ? L. concinna H. & M., but can 

 be at once distinguished by the abruptly truncated superior edge of the whorl. 

 This character relates it to, if it will not place it in the following genus. 



Gyrodes Con. 



? G. obtusivolva. — Shell subglobose ; spire somewhat elevated ; whorls 

 three, abruptly truncated above, where they are flat or concave with the angle 

 acute. Body whorl gibbous, sloping below. Mouth biangular above, broadly 

 rounded below. Umbilicus narrow, deeply perforate in casts. Surface 

 marked by close irregular oblique striae. 



My Coll., from Mr. Abbott, n. g. 



Length, -8 in. Width of body whorl, "8 in. Length of mouth, -55 in. 



Approaches in form the preceding species, but is a more robust shell, the 

 truncations of the body whorl is much broader and more abrupt, and the sur- 

 face is distinctly striate by lines of growth. The umbilicus appears broader, 

 but this may be merely an individual character. 



The genus Gyrodes will probably have to be extended to receive a number 

 of forms, having all the other characters as described by Mr. Conrad, but 

 with a narrow umbilicus. 



Unfortunately, we are unable to determine positively, whether or not there 

 was a callus in the umbilical cavity of this species. Could we determine that 

 point, we might be able to settle the bounds of the genus. 



G. Sp illm a nii. — Shell wide, spire low; whorls three, oblique on the 

 sides, truncated above. The truncation is at times flat, sometimes concave ; 

 angle generally acute. Mouth biangular above, obliquely expanded below. 

 Umbilicus broad, open, margin subcarinate. 



Height, "7 in. Width of body whorl, "85 in. Length of mouth, -55 in. 



Two specimens (casts) from the cretaceous limestone of Mississippi, in the 

 collection of the Academy, presented by Dr. Spillman. Closely related to 

 Gyrodes {Nalica) petrosa, which is found in the same locality, but differs in 

 the outer edge of the mouth being much less obliquely expanded, the surface 

 of the whorls being much more nearly parallel with the longitudinal axis of 

 the shell than in that species. The umbilicus is probably larger, but it 

 expands at a much smaller angle. G. petrosa has much the outline of Sigare- 

 tus. This is nearer the usual form of the true Naticas. 



G. Abbotti. — Shell subglobose, spire low, hardly elevated above the 

 upper edge of the body whorl. Whorls three ? (partly covered in the middle 

 by matrix) rapidly increasing in size. Section of body whorl (= curve of the 

 outer lip) nearly semicircular. Upper surface of the whorls flattened, but 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



not truncated, nor carinate in the casts, marked by numerous oblique plica- 

 tions ; surface markings unknown. Umbilicus large, dilated, merging bj'- 

 a rounded edge, without any carination, into the external surface. Mouth 

 rounded, widest near the lower extremity. 



Height, 1-5 in. Width of body whorl, 2 in. Length of mouth about 2-3 in. 



This is probably the largest of the Nalicidce in the American Cretaceous, 

 east of the Mississippi. It exceeds the finest specimens of Gyrodes {Nalica) 

 abyssinis, I have ever seen, in size. 



I am indebted for the only known specimen to my friend, Mr. C. C. Abbott, 

 who has added many rare and valuable specimens to my collection from the 

 N. Jersey marl beds. The specimen is from Mullica Hill, from the shell bed 

 at the top of the hill, known to every collector at that locality. 



From G. crenata, Con., it can be distinguished by the base of the body 

 whorl being broadly rounded. From G. alveala, Con., by the smaller number 

 of whorls to a shell twice the size of the type of that species, by the oblique 

 plications and absence of a carina on the shoulder of the whorl. 



TiTRBiNOPSis Con. 



T. d epre s s a.— Flattened ; spire low; whorls three, rounded and rather 

 widely separated in casts, indicating a thick shell ; slightly channelled at the 

 suture. Mouth elliptical longitudinally, acute below, the lower edge of the 

 whorl very strongly carinate, with the cast of a revolving rib on the lower 

 edge of the inner lip, and on the outer side of the carina are faint depressions 

 at about an eighth of an inch apart, indicating a periodical tooth. These are 

 faint or absent in the small specimens, but quite marked in the largest one 

 before me. Umbilicus patulous, perspective. 



Not very rare in the cretaceous at Crosswicks, N. J., and at the Delaware 

 and Chesapeake Canal. My Collection from Dr. Slack, and Coll. Acad. 



Height (of largest specimen) -85 in. Width of body whorl, I in. Length of 

 mouth, -6 in. 



I at first considered this genus as a synonj-m of Cancellaria. On more care- 

 ful examination, I believe it to be very distinct. It seems to be more nearlj'' 

 related to Ninella of Gray. It has the same general form, but differs in the 

 lower edge of the mouth being acute, with a revolving rib or tooth near the 

 base on the inner lip. 



Cancellaria Alahamensis, nobis, must be placed in this genus. 



The present species can be distinguished by the extremely flattened form, 

 the other species have remarkably high spires, compared with it. 



Trochus Linn. 



T. M o r t n i i . — Shell conical, spire elevated : whorls four, probably five, 

 increasing A'ery gradually in size obliquely flattened on the sides, and marked 

 by very faint undulations, probably indicating longitudinal ribs on the shell ; 

 lower edge of whorls angulated, under surface nearly flat ; mouth obliquely 

 subquadrate ; umbilicus ? 



Height, '75 in. Width of body whorl, 1 in. Height of mouth, -4 in. 



From the white cretaceous limestone of Ala. Coll. Acad. 



There are two specimens in the collection ; one of them, with the sides of 

 the whorls almost perfectly straight, has the trace of a small revolving rib or 

 tooth near the inner angle of the mouth on the lower lip. It may belong to 

 another species. 



T. Mortonii resembles most nearly T. Marrolianus, d'Orb., in its general form, 

 except that it is a shorter shell proportionally and the umbilicus is closed, or 

 nearly so. The casts also exhibit traces of longitudinal ribs or undulations, 

 which do not exist in the latter species. 



Architectonica Bolt. 

 A. Abbott ii. — Discoidal, spire low; whorls four, truncated above, 



1861.] 22 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



obliquely flattened on the sides ; inferior angle carinate ; lower surface broad- 

 ly convex. Mouth obliquely subquadrate. Umbilicus of ordinary propor- 

 tions and perspective. Umbilical surface of whorls rounded. Surface marked 

 by small but well marked revolving and longitudinal depressed lines, produc- 

 ing a cancellated appearance. 



Height, -8 in. Width of body whorl, 1-4 in. Height of mouth, -5 in. Trans- 

 verse width of mouth, -65 in. (about ) 



My collection ; locality, Mullica Hill ; from Mr. Abbott. Several specimens 

 in the Collection of the Academy from Timber Creek, N. J., with surfaces 

 entirely obliterated. One specimen, also, in the Collection of the Academy, 

 seems, from its lithological character, to have come from the white limestone 

 of Prairie Bluff, Ala. 



This shell is of the general form oi Pleurotomaria perspectiva Sow., as figured 

 by d'Orb., Pal.| Fr. vol. 2, pi. 186, but is always smaller, not as high propor- 

 tionally ; the lower angle of the body whorl is more acute, and the markings 

 are different. 



From A. crotaloides {Cirrus id. Morton, Pleurotoviaria id. d'Orb, Auct.) it can 

 be distinguished by the higher spire, and flattened, angular whorls. The 

 surface markings of the latter species are entirely unknown. 



Fasciolaria Lam. 



F. Slackii. — Elongated fusiform; spire turrited, about as high as the 

 mouth. "Whorls five ? (the upper one is broken off, but from the width of the 

 spire at that point, there must have been at least one volution in addition to 

 the four in the specimen.) Upper whorls prominent in the middle, sloping 

 gently upwards to the upper edge, which is so flattened as to indicate that 

 the suture must have been plain, not impressed, body whorl sloping from the 

 broad rounded shoulder, gently into a long, somewhat broad canal. Mouth 

 acute above, rapidly widening for a short distance and then gradually nar- 

 rowing. Surface marked by numerous undulating longitudinal ribs, passing 

 straight down or obliquely backwards from the suture to the shoulder of the 

 whorl, on -which they change their direction, being inclined forwards and 

 downwards with a regular curve, losing themselves in the general surface, or 

 extending to the end of the canal. One very distinct, oblique rib on the mid- 

 dle of the columella. 



Length of the specimen, containing four whorls, 1*2 in. Width of body 

 whorl, -6 in. Length of mouth, -7 in., (perhaps, when perfect, -75 or -8 in. 



Found with the two species of Acta;on, described above. My collection, 

 from Dr. Slack. 



Resembles in form, Fums exilis Con., (Median Tert. pi. 49, f. 4,) from the 

 Miocene, but is smaller, the shoulder of the whorls is somewhat more strongly 

 marked, and the ribs are closer together than those of the costate variety of 

 that species. 



VoLUTA Linn. 



V. (Fasciolaria?) D el aw are n si s. — Low fusiform; spire slightly ele- 

 vated ; whorls five, flattened and sloping above, marked on the angle by 

 obtuse tubercles, twelve on the body whorl, which extend in the shape of 

 rounded ribs, or mere undulations, about half the length of the whorl, losing 

 themselves in the surface. Mouth subangular above ; upper inner edge at 

 nearly a right angle to the inner lip ; outer lip, at first gently curved outward- 

 ly, and afterwards gradually approaching the anterior end with nearly a 

 straight line. The greatest width of the mouth appears to have equalled 

 about a third of its length. One heavy oblique fold on the columella. 



From the Delaware and Chesapeake Canal. Coll. Acad. 



This species is described from three casts in the Collection of the Academy. 

 They exhibit traces of the lines of growth, and of small regular revolving ribs. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



There may have been another fold on the columella, but, from the condition 

 of the specimens, I could not decide certainly. From the imperfect condition 

 of the specimens of this magnificent species, I could not determine positively 

 in which of the two above genera to place it. Its general form seems to 

 relate it most nearly to the Athlela group of the Volutes. 



Length, (broken) 2-75 in. Width of body whorl, 2-2 in. Length of mouth, 

 (broken) 2*25 in. 



V. K a n e i . — Shell small, fusiform. Spire elevated ; whorls 3 — 3 J, round- 

 ed. Body whorl broadly rounded above, tapering below. Mouth elongate, 

 acute above, slightly widened in the middle and narrowed below. Columella 

 with two small oblique folds, the posterior one almost linear. Surface of 

 casts perfectly smooth ; but on casts of the surface, I have found impressions 

 of a few rather prominent longitudinal ribs, crossed by numerous distinct re- 

 volving lines. I have not ascertained how far these extend over the surface, 

 having traced them only on the upper third of the whorls. 



Length, somewhat broken I-l, probably 1-25 or 1-3. Width of body whorl, 

 •55. Length of mouth, -7, perhaps when perfect, -75 or '8 in. 



From N. J. My Coll.. named after Mr. Chas. Kane of N. J., an enthusiastic 

 and able collector, and one to whom I am indebted for some valuable addi- 

 tions to my collection. 



This species resembles most nearly F. bella, nobis, but is a shorter and 

 more robust shell, with the upper volutions diminishing more rapidly in size. 



V. mucronata . — Shell turrited. Spire high ; whorls four or five, rounded 

 and increasing very gradually in size. Aperture elongate, narrow, acuminate 

 above. Columella with three small folds, the anterior, largest; other two 

 linear. Surface maiked by broad longitudinal ribs and small distinct re- 

 volving lines. 



Length of most perfect specimen (three last whorls), 1"3 in. Width of 

 body whorls -55 in. Length of mouth about '75 in. (imperfect). Two casts 

 in my collection; locality Crosswicks, N. J., from Dr. Slack. Of the same 

 type as V. Tezana and F. nasuta, this species differs from both in the much 

 more gradual increase in size of the whorls, there more rounded form and 

 the shorter mouth. This character will serve to separate it without doubt from 

 the latter, and the additional character of the very few and delicate columella 

 folds renders the distinction from the former certain, independently of the great 

 difi'erence in shape. 



Teredo Linn. 

 -S". G. Uperotis Guett. ? 



T. contorta. — Tube short, knotted, increasing rapidly and irregularly in 

 size, and bent at two right angles in the only specimen I have seen. Shell 

 gibbous, beaks incurved ; umbones prominent, in cast, and marked by a deep 

 angular groove, extending to the margin and inclined a little anteriorly. An- 

 terior basal margin excavated by a deep angular notch, occupying about half 

 the longitudinal diameter of the shell, and joining the basal margin by a short 

 curve at or near the point where the umbonal groove reaches the edge. The 

 extreme anterior end is buried in the matrix, but, from the direction of the 

 surface lines, is probably acuminate. Posterior end produced rounded and 

 slightly gaping. Surface marked by fine lines at the anterior end, which ex- 

 tend posteriorly, and end abruptly in a line with the posterior edge of the 

 emargination. From this line extends a series of much finer lines running 

 transversely with the direction of the first, being parallel with the edge of the 

 emargination, and abruptly curving posteriorly, immediately in advance of the 

 umbonal groove, across which are larger and less numerous lines, these again 

 became smaller, being about as large, but less distinct than the most anterior 

 set, and run parallel with the basal and posterior margins. 



1861.J 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



One specimen in my collection, from Burlington Co., N. J. 



Total length of tube about 1.V5 in. Greatest diameter -5 in. Length of 

 shell about -25 in. Width about 3 in. 



The surface markings are about exactly like those of Xylophaga SHmpsonii 

 M. & H., but the beaks are more prominent and the crenulations along the 

 vertical furrow, extending from the beak, are much finer and more numerous. 

 It is less oval in form than Pholas (^Xylophaga) eleganlula M. & H. The gaping 

 appearance of the posterior end may be due to the peculiar position of the 

 shell in the matrix. If it should prove to be closed, the species will belong to 

 the genus Xglophaga. 



Pholas Linn. 



P. crotacea? Gabh. — Jour. Acad. 2d s. vol. 4, p. 393, pi. 68, f. 18. 



Shell broadly cuneate, beaks very much incurved. Umbones broad; buccal 

 extremity rather abrupt, convex. Cardinal margin rounded, sloping down- 

 wards towards the anal end, which is rather broad. Basal margin nearly 

 straight, perhaps a little emarginate. Surface marked by a deep groove ex- 

 tending a little obliquely backwards from the beaks to the basal edge. In 

 advance of this are curved striae, very distinct and parallel, or nearly so, with 

 the margin, which, immediately on crossing the groove, become straight. 

 From a very small fragment of the shells attached to the cast, we find that 

 between these grooves are small sharp ridges. 



Length -21 in. Width -32 in. Diameter -2 in. 



This small shell, of which I have seen but one specimen, is referred pro- 

 visionally to the above species, described only from the tubes, because it is 

 of about the proper size to form such tubes, is found in the same deposit, and 

 is the only species known in the New Jersey deposits, except P. cithara Morton, 

 which is about an inch in length. The specimen is from Burlington county, 

 and is in my collection. It is so injured by pyrites, that I cannot ascertain 

 how far the lines, described above, extend posteriorly. They seem, however, 

 to continue parallel with the edge. The shell is less truncated in advance 

 than P. cithara, the type of which is in the Academy's collection. The figure 

 given by Dr. Morton is scarcely recognizable. In his specimen the posterior 

 extremity is very narrow and the anterior end is very abruptly truncated, and 

 not produced as in the figure. Mr. Conrad's figure of the same species, under 

 the name of P. pectorosa, in the Journal of the Academy, 2d s. vol. 2, pi. 2, 

 fig. 9, will convey a better idea of the species, 



Anatina Lam. 



A. elliptica. — Shell subelliptical, equlvalve, nearly equilateral; beaks 

 central, pointing posteriorly, very small, umbones small. Cardinal margin 

 slightly convex. Buccal margin broad, nearly straight and sloping inwards 

 towards the basal edge, which is very broadly rounded, being nearly straight 

 just opposite the beaks. Anal extremity hardly more than half as broad as 

 the buccal, and with the hinge line between it and the beaks, regularly con- 

 cave. There is a broadly rounded ridge extending from the umbones towards 

 the anterior basal margin, gradually becoming obsolete as it approaches the 

 edge. Shell thin, and marked on the surface by small, irregular concentric 

 ridges. 



Length -9 in. (from beaks to basal margin). Width 1-3 in. 



Locality, Mullica Hill, N. J., collected, with a number of other fine speci- 

 mens, by Messrs. Abbott and Kain. 



Venilia Morton. 



V. trigona. — Shell very oblique. Beaks very prominent, anterior, almost 

 terminal, incurved, umbones small, umbonal ridge prominent, subangular 

 slightly rounded on the edge, and extending to the extreme posterior basal 

 angle of the shell. Basal margin nearly straight on the posterior half, regu- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



larly rounded from the middle to the anterior extremity of the hinge line. 

 Anal margin, lower third, at about a right angle to the basal edge, upper portion 

 curved as it passes the muscular scars, and straight, inclined anteriorly be- 

 yond, until it reaches the hinge line. Hinges composed of the characteristic 

 teeth, but very robust. Anterior muscular scars very deep, posterior, hardly 

 visible. 



Length 1'6 in. Width 1-9. Transverse diameter 1-5 in. 



Locality, Boonton, N. J. My collection, from Mr. Abbott. 



There is a specimen in the collection of the Academy, apparently belonging 

 to this species. Both are casts. The Academy's specimen, however, has alitho- 

 logical character, entirely unknown to me, in the Cretaceous. It is from a light 

 grey calcareous clay rock. I have been unable to see the impression of the hinge 

 in that specimen. Mine shows the impressions of all of the cardinal teeth per- 

 fectly. There can be no doubt of the difference between this genus and Cyprina, 

 to which it was referred by d'Orbigny. Dr. Morton's figure of the hinge (Synopsis, 

 pi. 8) is correct for the right valve. That of the left valve is totally wrong. 

 An examination of the figure will suffice to show that the two valves, as there 

 represented, would not articulate. I have before me a drawing, which I made 

 from the original specimen, in the collection of the Academy. Anteriorly, 

 there is a large, flattened tooth, arising gradually in advance and ending ab- 

 ruptly, which articulated with the fosset, in advance of the two small, round 

 teeth in the right valve. These, in turn, correspond to two small fossets on 

 the left side. Behind these fossets there is a large, triangular pyramidal 

 tooth, matching the fosset in the right valve (not well represented) between 

 the two small and the long, narrow cardinal teeth; the latter is received in 

 the left valve, between the pyramidal tooth and a corresponding tooth. There 

 is also a long, lamellar, lateral tooth, placed posteriorly, but represented too 

 near the edge in the figure of the left vale. The two figures in Dr. Morton's 

 illustration were apparently taken from the right valve. 



The present species is the most abrupt yet described. It is nearest 

 V. Conradi, hut differs in being higher, the beaks even more anterior: the 

 basal margin straighter, the posterior edge by far less prominent and the 

 transverse diameter proportionally much greater. From the cast, the surface 

 does not seem to have possessed varices. It resembles, on its posterior face, 

 some of the forms of Cucullosa vulgaris, but can be distinguished from that 

 species by wanting the internal plates, and by the hinge being composed of a 

 few very robust teeth. 



Arca Lam. 



A. altirostris. — Small, robust, elongated, subquadrate. Beaks a little 

 in advance of the centre, very prominent, distant and somewhat incurved. 

 Basal margin regularly convex, posterior edge nearly straight, and most promi- 

 nent at its lower portion. Surface markings unknown, a faint umbonal ridge 

 extending from the beaks to the margin. Muscular scars distinct, but not 

 prominent, posterior ones largest and most regular in shape. Pallial impres- 

 sion well marked. Hinge line curved on its inner margin. 



Length, -55 in. Width, -65 in. Diameter, -4 in. 



Of nearly the same size as Cibota multiradiata, nobis, this species can be 

 distinguished by the very prominent beaks, and less regularly gibbous form. 

 The margin, which, in that species, is crenulated, does not seem to be in this, 

 from an examination of the cast. The basal margin is closed in this species, 

 and gaping in that. 



It is more nearly related to A. quindecemradiata, but is much smaller, the 

 beaks are much more prominent, proportionally, and it wants the distinct 

 radiating lines, plainly visible on the casts of that species. 



Locality, Crosswicks, N. J. My collection, from Dr. Slack. 



1861.] 




326 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



CuccrLL(EA Lam. 



C. vulgaris Morton. — Synopsis, p. 64, pi. 3, fig. 8, and pi. 13, f. 5. 

 Under this name have been confounded several species, found in New Jersey. 

 Having the good fortune to have access to Dr. Morton's types, I shall endeavor 

 to separate them, a task which would be almost impossible, with only the 

 meagre description and worse figures, given in the synopsis. The true 

 C. vulgarii is characterized as follows : — 



Shell gibbous, sub-triangular. Beaks anterior, prominent, remote. Hinge 

 line short, straight externally, internally curved; teeth? Buccal margin 

 broadly rounded, basal nearly straight; posterior angle produced. Umbonal 

 ridge prominent, subangular; umbonal slopes almost at aright angle with 

 the rest of the surface. Surface marked by distinct, irregular, concentric 

 lines. Area impressed and marked by five or six angular lines. Muscular 

 scars rather small. Pallial line very distiact. 



The most obvious distinguishing characters of this species are the promineat, 

 remote beaks, placed almost at the anterior extremity. 



There is another form found with this, probably a variety, in which the 

 umbonal ridge, instead of being straight, as in the typical specimens, is dis- 

 tinctly convex in the middle. 



C. neglecta. — Shell subquadrate, more compressed than the preceding 

 species. Beaks small, incurved, placed near each other, and almost one-third 

 of the distance from the anterior end. Buccal extremity prominent, rounded. 

 Anal margin nearly parallel with the buccal, and much less produced than in 

 C. vulgaris. Basal margin broadly and pretty regularly convex. Area small, 

 narrow. Internal plate long and narrow. Surface marked by numerous, rather 

 small, radiating lines. 



Length, 1 in. Width, 1-3 in. Diameter, -8 in. 



Found abundantly with the preceding. I have only seen casts. 



This species approaches most nearly C. Mailleana [Area id. d'Orb.,) but is 

 much less ventricose, and the beaks are not half the distance apart. There is 

 little or no resemblance between it and C. vulgaris. 



C. transversa. — Shell very gibbous. Beaks large, prominent and very 

 far apart, placed about a third of the distance from the buccal end. Area 

 broad and very long. Posterior-basal angle prominent. Internal plate low and 

 broad. Hinge nearly straight. Surface marked by numerous radiating lines. 



Length, 1-4 in. Width, 1'8 in. Transverse diameter, 1.5 in. 



One specimen in the collection of the Academy, presented by Mr. Harris, 

 probably from Arneytown, N. J. 



From the preceding species, this can be distinguished by the much deeper 

 valves, more remote and prominent beaks and long hinge area. It is the most 

 convex species in New Jersey, being more so, in proportion to its size, than 

 C. antrosa Morton. The form will distinguish it from that species. It resembles 

 somewhat C. fibrosa Lam., but is more convex on the basal margin, the beaks 

 are larger and more remote, and the whole shell is somewhat more oblique. 

 The hinge is longer than that species, as is also the width of the shell from 

 buccal to anal margins. From Area quindecemradiata, it can be distinguished 

 by having probably twice the number of ribs, and by being more convex. 



LiTHOPHAGUS Muhlf. 18II. 

 Lithodomas Cuv. 1817. 

 L. Ripley an us. — Tube subcylindrical, nearly straight, gradually taper- 

 ing, broadest on the dorsal surface ; opposite face narrow, rounded ; extremity 

 abrupt, rounded and faintly sub-trilobate. Shell subquadrate. Beaks ter- 

 minal, and projecting beyond the buccal end of the shell, very much incurved, 

 so as to appear somewhat spiral. Umbones broad, slightly flattened in the 

 middle. Cardinal margin straight anteriorly, depressed posteriorly, merging 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 327 



into the anal border, which is subtruncate and most prominent above. Basal 

 edge broadly emarginate. Surface marked by numerous, irregular, concentric 

 lines. 



Length, -25 in. "Width, -55 in. Diameter, -35 in. 



Length of tube, -9 in. 



Not rare in the marls of New Jersey. I found one specimen, somewhat 

 smaller than the above measurements, at the point where the West Jersey 

 railroad crosses Big Timber Creek, between Gloucester and Red Bank, N. J., 

 shoAving the shell, beautifully preserved. It is from the bed usually known 

 as the " Ripley Group," discovered almost simultaneously in Mississippi, by 

 Dr. Spillman, and Prof. Hilgard, the State geologist, and first recognized by 

 me in New Jersey. 



The shell resembles L. Australis nobis (Lithodomus id., Synopsis Moll, of 

 (/ret., Modiola id., Proc. Acad., I860,) but is narrower, posteriorly, and the 

 cardinal margin is more depressed. 



L. a f f i n i s . — Tube robust, curved, short. Portion containing the shell 

 broad, grooved at the anterior half of the back, rounded carinate the rest of 

 its length. Opposite face more narrow and deeply grooved. Extremity dis- 

 tinctly trilobate. Shell unknown. From the shape of the tube, it appears 

 related to the preceding species, but the beaks are less prominent in advance, 

 the shell is much more gibbous, the basal margin more emarginate, and the 

 posterior cardinal margin more depressed. 



Length of tube (extending a little beyond the shell) -6 in. Width (in the 

 direction of the length of the shell) -35 in. Transverse width -4 in. 



From the green marl of New Jersey. Exact locality unknown, probably 

 Burlington county. Coll. Acad. 



Although I have only seen the tube of this species, I do not hesitate in 

 describing it. It is shorter, more robust and more distinctly marked by the 

 form of the shell, than that of the preceding species, and is somewhat curved, 

 .1 character I have never seen in L. Ripleyanus, after examining more than 

 twenty specimens. The marks on the surface of the tube indicate a much 

 shorter and more robust shell. 



Ctenoides Klein, 1753. 

 Radula Klein, 1753; Lima Brug., 1792. 



C. denticulicosta . — Shell oblique, inflated, thin ; ears small. Surface 

 marked by about twenty-eight angular ribs strongly crenulated on the crest, 

 and occasionally with faint traces of supplementary ribs on their sides. 

 Interspaces between the ribs angular, marked by strong lines of growth, 

 which are more evident at the sides of the shell, at which points the ribs 

 become smaller, and finally disappear, thus leaving about one-sixth of the 

 surface at each side without ribs. Interior marked by grooves corresponding 

 with the ribs on the surface. 



Length, -75 in. Greatest width, -fiS in Depth of valve, -3 in. 



From the Cretaceous of Tennessee. My Coll. and Coll. Acad. From Prof. 

 Safford, the State Geologist of that State. 



This shell resembles C. reticulata noh. {Lima id. \jye\\ & Forbes,)- but is a 

 little more rounded, especially on the posterior side. It can be distinguished, 

 however, by the ribs being larger, fewer in number, and strongly crenulatc, 

 as well as from the fact that, at both the anterior and posterior sides, the ribs 

 disappear for about one-sixth the width of the shell. The umbones are 

 somewhat smaller than in C. reticulata. From C. crenulicosta, it can be dis- 

 tinguished by the shape, being much more elongate, ribs smaller and more 

 numerous, and in the latter species the whole surface is costate. 



Pecten Linn. 



P. t e n u i t e s t a .—Shell thin, orbicular, flattened ; valves of about equal 



1861.] 




328 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



convexity. Ears unknown. Surface marked by about forty slender, rounded 

 ribs of variable size, often showing a marked tendency to alternation of large 

 and small ones. Interspaces between the ribs flat, and equal to, and some- 

 times wider, than the ribs. The surface, both of ribs and interspaces, is 

 covered by very fine concentric lines placed close together, often hardly 

 visible to the naked eye, and sometimes assuming the form of comparatively 

 large imbrications. Interior of the shell marked by grooves corresponding 

 with the external ribs. 



This species occurs occasionally in the dark-blue marls of Burlington and 

 adjoining counties, but I have never seen a whole shell. It seems to be of the 

 form and size of P. Burlingtonensis nobis, but is sufficiently distinguished by 

 the radiating ribs. The valves are about half an inch apart in the middle. 



P. a s p e r Xam.^There are two specimens of this species, in the Academy's 

 Collection, among the American specimens. One purports to have come from 

 Tennessee, the other is without a label. They may both be, however, Eu- 

 ropean specimens, placed there by mistake. I mention the fact to call the 

 attention of collectors to the matter. 



OsTREA Linn. 



0. pandffiformis. — Subquadrate. Lower valve very convex, nearly 

 pyramidal, most prominent in the centre, from which point the sides slope 

 abruptly, the anterior half forming nearly a right angle with the line running 

 from the beak to the crest. Laterally, the slope is not so great. Upper valve 

 flat, for the first tliird of its length, then convexly curved downwards, the 

 anterior half becoming deeply concave in the middle. 



Holding the shell so that the beaks are furthest off, the right hand side is 

 entire ; the left side is emarginate towards the basal margin. Surface 

 strongly imbricated, the surfaces of the layers being smooth ; no costae visi- 

 ble on the surface. 



Length, 3 in. Width, 2-5 in. Greatest depth, 2 in. 



Locality, " seven miles below Yazoo, Mississippi." My collection. From 

 Dr. Janeway, U. S. A. Most probably cretaceous. 



The irregular form of this shell makes it exceedingly difficult to describe. 

 It resembles, remotely, some of the more regular forms of 0. panda Morton, 

 but can be distinguished by its much greater size, the deeper inferior valve, 

 the entire absence of ribs, and the strongly imbricated surface. The growth 

 of the shell has been a little oblique, making the strias, especially of the 

 upper valve, somewhat excentric. It wants entirely, however, the spiral form 

 of Exogyra. 



0. cretacea 3Torton. — Syn., p. 52, pi. 19, f. 3. 



This species, described and figured from a specimen from the Eocene 

 limestone of South Carolina, is said by Dr. Morton to occur in the " older 

 cretaceous strata of Greene county, Alabama," and has been frequently 

 quoted from other cretaceous localities. I have seen but one or two valves, 

 of the so-called 0. cretacea, from the cretaceous formation, and I consider 

 them distinct. It is more oblique, and is usually somewhat curved. One 

 specimen, found by myself at MuUica Hill, is quite thick, and resembles 

 more nearly 0. robusta. The true 0. cretacea is nearly equilateral and sub- 

 ovoid. 



0. panda Morton. — Syn. p. 51, pi. 3, fig. 6, exclus. pi. 19, fig. 10. 



Dr. Morton also described two species under this name. I have before me 

 full series of both. The cretaceous form, the one to which the name will 

 have to apply, is, without exception, the most irregular oyster I have ever 

 seen. It varies from crescentic to obliquely ovoid, subquadrate, oval or almost 

 circular, and is marked by from two or three undulations or contortions to 

 nearly twenty radiating ribs, which are sometimes smooth, and at others 

 coarsely imbricated. The lower valve is usually attached, but, when free, is 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



flat for a half or two-thirds of its length, and is then bent upwards at various 

 angles, often nearly a right angle. The line at which the two valves meet 

 is well defined. Hinge short, rounded, triangular, not very marlted. 



The shell is usually about an inch long. I have never seen one more than 

 an inch and a half in length. Prof. SafFord, State Geologist of Tennessee, 

 sent me numerous species, from the " Ripley Group " of that State. 



I shall name the Eocene species, in honor of Dr. Morton, 



0. M or t o nii (?., 0. panda M. pars. Syn. pi. 10, fig. 10. 



Shell oblique, triangular to subquadrate. Both valves strongly plicated. 

 Lower valve, especially in young specimens, usually convex, deepest in the 

 middle, but rarely bent abruptly, and then usually from having been encrust- 

 ing. Hinge distinct, very oblique, and nearly as high as wide, with a distinct, 

 medial depression. Placing the lower valve in its natural position, with the 

 beak furthest off, the left basal angle is always most produced, the right 

 side from the hinge to this angle being more or less regularly curved, and the 

 left side nearly or quite straight. Surface marked by a slightly variable 

 number of ribs, usually about eleven, one or two of which are often much 

 larger than the others ; the longest side being without ribs, except in very 

 large specimens, when there will sometimes be found a dozen small supple- 

 mentary ones. Upper valve nearly or quite flat, and always plicated as 

 strongly as the lower ones, and in a corresponding manner. As the shell 

 increases in size, the form and markings become less regular, sometimes the 

 plications equalling in depth one-third of the length of the shell. 



Dr. Morton's figure is a very accurate representative of the original, now 

 before me. Another specimen from the same bed is 2-5 in. long. Width, 3 in. 

 Diameter, 1-5 in. Greatest oblique Avidth, 3-5 in. 



Very common in the Eocene limestone of South Carolina, and in the same 

 formation from Alabama. 



Ostrea Vickshuryensis Cuv., can be distinguished from this species by its 

 more regular form, deeper valves, and smooth, rounded ribs. 



Gryph^a Lam. 



G. Thirsffi. — Rounded-subtriangular. Lower valve; beak very small, 

 and close to the hinge, never exsert. Umbone rounded, very prominent and 

 somewhat compressed laterally, the rounded elevation continuing more or 

 less regularly, becoming broader, to the middle of the basal margin, 

 at which point this margin is always somewhat emarginate. Ligament 

 area broad, triangular, transversely striate, and with a slight, irregular de- 

 pression in the middle. Interior of valve very deep. Muscular impression 

 nearly ovoid, narrowest on the inner end. External surface marked by a 

 few small, irregular squamose ridges, most numerous and distinct directly 

 behind the emargination of the base. Upper valve unknown. 



The species resembles, remotely, some of the narrower forms of G. vesicu- 

 laris Lam., but after comparing the series before me with numerous authentic 

 specimens of that species, both American and European, some of the latter 

 labelled by d'Orbigny and others, by Charlesworth, I am satisfied that they 

 are distinct. The beak is so small as to be almost obsolete, and there is 

 always a more or less distinct, rounded, umbonal ridge. In general form, it 

 resembles G. [Exogyra) columba, but wants the spiral beak, and is never 

 lobed. The small beak and absence of all traces of lobes will sufficiently 

 separate it from G. Pilcherii, 



The specimens are in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institute (No. 5701, 

 and are from a light gray sandy marl. 



Locality, " Nanafalia," Alabama. 



Length, l.T in. Greatest width, 1-3 in. Width at the hinge, -6 in. Greatest 

 height of valve, -8 in. Height at the hinge, -7 in. Length from the basal 

 margin, over the umbone, to the beak, 2-3 in. 



1861.] 22 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The measurements above were all taken from one specimen ; they vary a 

 little, but the shai)e and proportions are very nearly alike in all the specimens 

 I have seen. 



Amorphozoa.. 



EuDEA Lam. 



?E. dichotoma. — Subcj'lindrical, often compressed or irregularly 

 nodulated ; dichotomous, flattened below each dichotomization ; rarely ap- 

 proaching a massive form. Internal tube generally obliterated, but wide 

 and distinct in one instance. Surface covered by numerous rounded pores 

 placed close together, and a few large rounded, scattered depressions, pro- 

 bably representing the "oscules" described by Picket. 



Common in the dark green mar^ of the second division of the Cretaceous, 

 of the New Jersey Geologists. I found it abundantly in the marl pits of 

 Hon. Nathan Stratton, near Mullica Hill, and in the same beds at Black- 

 woodstown, N. J. 



The branches are rarely found in pieces of more than an inch and a half in 

 length, are usually from a third to a half an inch thick, and are frequently 

 dichotomous, though I have only in one instance found a mass of more than 

 half a cubic inch in size. The surface is usually entirely destroyed, so that 

 the form alone distinguishes them from accidental concretions. The discovery 

 of undoubted pores in several specimens, however, indicate their organic 

 origin, though I can only place it doubtfully in the above genus. 



Catalogue of land and fresh water univalve MOLLTJSKS collected in British 

 America by Messrs. Ross, Kennicott and Drexler, and deposited in the Smith- 

 sonian Collection. 



BY W. G. 



From English River. I 



Helix arborea Sai/. 

 chersina Say. 

 striatella Anthony. 

 Bulimus harpa Say. 

 Achatina lubrica MuU. 

 Limnaea jugularis Say. 

 appressa Say. 

 ampla Mighels. 

 palustris Lin. 

 Physa heterostropha Say. 



hypnorum Lin. 

 Planorbis trivolvis Say. 



From Ft. Simpson, on Mackensie's River. 



Succinea avara Say. 



lineata W. G. B. ? 

 Limnsea appressa Say. 

 palustris Lin. 

 : Planorbis trivolvis Say. 

 parvus Say. 



From Fort Resolution, Slave Lake. 

 Succinea Haydeni W. G. B., var. minor. 

 Physa hypnorum Lin. 



From Hudson's Bay. 

 Limnaea appressa Say. 

 palustris Lin. 

 caperata Say ? 



BINNEY. 



From James' Bay, 



Succinea ovalis Gld., non Say ? 

 Bulimus harpa Say. 



Physa ? 



Planorbis armigerus Say, 



From Moose Fort. 



Limnsa n. sp. ? 



From Moose Factory. 



Vitrina limpida Gld. 

 Succinea ovalis Gld. non Say, 



obliqua Say. 

 Helix arborea Say. 



striatella Anthony. 

 labyrinthica Say. 

 monodoQ Rackett, 

 young albolabris or thyroides. 

 Achatina lubrica Miill. 

 Limnasa palustris Lin. 

 appressa Say. 

 Physa heterostropha Say. 

 Planorbis bicarinatus Say. 



parvus Say. 

 Amnicola lustrica Say. 

 porata Say. 

 limosa Say. 

 Valvata tricarinata Say, 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Notes on the Terrestrial MoUusks of the PeninsTila of California. 

 BY AV. G. BINNEY. 



Our knowledge of the air-breathing moUusks of Lower California is derived 

 almost entirely from the labors of Mr. John Xantus. The specimens collected 

 by him, and from which the following descriptions are drawn, are deposited 

 in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. 



The South American type of Bulimus appears to prevail, while the presence 

 of undoubted specimens of B. proteus and pallidior is an interesting fact in the 

 study of geographical distribution. 



Helix AREOLATA Sowb. Cerros Island. (Dr. Veatch.) 

 Helix PANDORiS Forbes. Margarita Island. (My cabinet.) San Juan ? 

 (Forbes.) 



Bplimus excelsus Gould. La Paz. (California Acad. Nat. Sc. coll.) 

 BuLiMPS VESiCALis Gould. Lowcr California. (Gould.) 



Bulimus pallidior Sowb. {B. vegetus Gould.) — Mr. Xantus found it at Cape 

 San Lucas and 350 miles above. For an account of its habits see that of B. 

 inscendens described below. It appears to inhabit the whole peninsula, as 

 Carpenter quotes it from San Diego, and Gould at San Juan. It is found in 

 very great quantities. Sowerby is undoubtedly wrong in giving " South Sea 

 Islands" as locality. Pfeiflfer gives S. America on Cumings' authority. 



Bulimus proteus Brod. Cape San Lucas. (Xantus.) — One large specimen 

 agreeing with the figure of Deshayes and Ferussac, pi. 139, figs. 1 and 2, and 

 numerous immature ones, were collected by Mr. Xantus. The colored bands 

 are longitudinal and not transverse as in Reeves' fig. 100, Con. Icon., which is 

 also 8 mill, longer than Mr. Xantus' largest specimen. B. proteus is referred 

 to the mountains of Peru by Pfeiffer. 



Bulimus Xantusi, n. s. — T. rimata ; oblongo-ovata ; calcarea ; 

 striis creberrimis flesuosis longitudinalibus et lineis minutis interci- 

 dentibus notata ; sutura impressa ; anfr. 5^ convexi, ultimus 5-7 

 long, testae sequans ; columella arcuata ; apertura obliqiia, ovalis ; 

 perist. simplex, acutum, marginibus approximatis, columellari re- 

 flexo ; paries aperturalis callo tenui induta. Long. mill. 21, lat. 

 8. Ap. 10 longa, 6 lata. 



Habitat promont. San Lucas, pseninsulse Californise. Exempla 4 

 collegit J. Xantus. 



Shell rimate, oblong-ovate ; chalky-white ; marked with numerous longi- 

 tudinal wavy strife and decussating minute revolving lines ; suture impressed ; 

 whorls 5^, convex, the last 5-7ths the length of the shell ; columella arrhed ; 

 aperture oblique, oval ; perist. simple, sharp, its ends somewhat approach- 

 ing, that of the columella reflected ; the parietal wall of the aperture covered 

 with a light callus. 



The four specimens collected are very uniform in outline, size and mark- 

 ings. The peculiar wavy strise and minute revolving lines are its chief cha- 

 racteristics. 



Bulimus Artemisia, n. s. — T. rimata ; subcylindrica, versus apicem 

 obtusam, distincte liratam attenuata ; tenuis, diaphana, laeviuscula, 

 longitudinaliter vix rugosa ; sutixra impressa ; anfr. 8, planiusculi, regu- 

 lariter accrescentes, ultimus | long, testae aequans ; apertura obliqua, 

 ovalis ; perist. simplex, vix incrassatum, marginibus approximatis, 

 callo crasso, exstante junctis, columellari dilatato. — Long. 23, diam. 

 6 ; ap. 7 long, 5 mill. lata. 



Habitat ad promont. San Lucas, paeninsulse Californios, in Artemisia 

 degens. (J. Xantus.) 



1861.] 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Shell rimate, subcylindrical, broadest at the second whorl, from which it 

 gradually tapers towards the apex, which is obtuse, its first whorl and a half 

 being bulbous, and marked by numerous strong longitudinal ribs ; white ; 

 nearly transparent ; the longitudinal wrinkles of growth scarcely roiighening 

 the almost smooth surface ; suture distinct ; whorls 8, flattened, regularly 

 and gradually increasing, the last equalling one-half the whole length of the 

 shell; aperture oblique, oval; peristome simple, hardly thickened, its ter- 

 minations approached, and made continuous by a white, upright calhis, the 

 columellar portion expanded. 



But one specimen was found on a small species of Artemisia at Cape San 

 Lucas, Lower California by Mr. J. Xantus, and is preserved in the collection 

 of the Smithsonian Institution. 



BuLiMtrs piLULA, n. s. — T. umbilicata, globosa, inflata ; tenuis ; 

 longitudinaliter rugosa ; calcarea ; apex obtusa ; anfr. 4 convexi, ul- 

 timus inflatus, long. test<e 10-11 sequans ; columella simplex, arcu- 

 ata ; apertura obliqua, rotundata ; perist. simplex, acutum, margine 

 columellari dilatato. Long. mill. 22, lat. 7. Ap. 9 longa, 6 lata. 

 Habitat in pjeninsula Californiffi, ad " Todos Santos Mission," et 

 in insula " Marguerita." Saxa degens sub muscis. Specimina plurima col- 

 legit J. Xantus. 



Shell globose, inflated ; umbilicated ; thin ; with longitudinal wrinkles ; 

 chalk-colored ; apex obtuse ; whorls 4, convex, the last very inflated, equal- 

 ling 10-llths the length of the whole shell ; columella simple, arched ; aper- 

 ture oblique, rounded ; peristome simple, acute, its columellar end expanded 

 so as partially to cover the umbiliciis. 



Mr. Xantus found many of this species during his stay on the peninsular, 

 and is decidedly of the opinion that maturer specimens, if any existed, would 

 have been noticed by him. It frequents rocky spots, living under mosses. 



I can find no figure in Reeves' Monograph or description in PfeifiTer's works 

 of any species at all approaching it in shape. Bulimus sufflatus Gould, from 

 Lower California, of which I have seen a specimen, does not appear to be a 

 more mature form of it. The measurements are taken from the largest indi- 

 vidual. All the specimens are uniform in outline and other respects. 



Bulimus inscendess, n. s. — T. rimata ; acuminato-oblonga ; ten- 

 uis ; rufo-brunnea ; striis incrementi et lineis minntis volventibua 

 decussata, apice lirata ; sutura mediocris ; anfr. 7 convexi, ulti- 

 mus 7-12 long, testae sequans ; apertura obliqua, oblongo-ovata, 

 perist. simplex, acutum, ad columellam reflexum ; paries apertur- 

 alis callo tenui induta. Long. mill. 36, lat. 10. Ap. 15 longa. 

 9 lata. 



Habitat in montibus arenosis pseninsulse Californise inter "Cape 

 San Lucas" et "Margarita Bay," inscendens in arbores "Copal" 

 dictas. (J. Xantus.) 



Shell rimate; acuminately oblong; thin; reddish brown; de- 

 cussated with strise of growth and minute revolving lines, the api- 

 cial whorl and a 'half being ribbed ; suture moderate; whorls 7, 

 convex, the last 7-12ths the shell's length ; aperture oblique, oblong-ovate ; 

 peristome simple, acute, reflected at the columella ; a thin callus on the parie- 

 tal wall of the aperture. 



The description is drawn from the most perfect specimen, which is some- 

 what smaller and more cylindrical than some of the others. On first receiving 

 a single specimen, I was inclined to refer it to B. excelsus Gld. A careful ex- 

 amination of the description of that species, however, and of a specimen lately 

 received, convinces me of its being distinct. Its peculiar characteristic is the 

 strongly ribbed, polished apicial whorls, differing from the decussated sculp- 

 turing of the remainder of the shell. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



It was found in great numbers with B. pallidior Sowb., climbing high Copaiva 

 trees, called " Copal" by the natives, on dry mountains 800 to 1000 feet high. 

 It was never observed on the table lands or low lands. Mr. Xantu^ traced it 

 from Cape St. Lucas some 350 miles up the coast. 



Pedipes lieata W. G. Binn. Cape San Lucas. (J. Xantus.) 



Description of two new species of HELIX. 



• BY A. D. BROWN. 



Helix Hdbbardi. Figs. 1 and 2, mag. 5 diams. 

 T. umbilicatti, depressa, tenui, oblique striatula, basi striis obsole- 

 tis, corneorufescente ; laminis 4, 2 parietalibus, super.l promiuente, 

 infera lineari, 2 in fundo anfractus ultimi ; spira, vix elevata ; aufr. 

 4J — 5, convexis, ultimo antice vix descendente ; umbilico lato ; aper- 

 tura perobliqua, sabcircularis ; perist. b-eviter reliexo, simplici. 

 Diam. maj. 2|, alt. 1|, mill. 



Hal). — Prope Indianola, Calhoun Co., Texas. (E. W. Hubbard.) 

 Shell umbilicated, depressed, thin, obliquely striated, striae upon 

 the base obsolete, brownish horn color; laminae 4, 2 upon the par- 

 ietal wall, the upper one prominent, the lower very faint, 2 deep 

 within the last whorl .; spire slightly elevated ; whorls 4} — 5, convex, the last 

 slightly descending ; umbilicus wide ; aperture very oblique, subcircular ; 

 peristome slightly reflected, simple. 



Allied in shape to H. pulchella Mull., and in the parietal laminae to If. laby- 

 rinthica, Say. From the former it differs in the presence of the laminae, and 

 in being striate ; from the latter, in its more depressed form, wider umbilicus, 

 finer striae, and internal laminae. 



Helix trizonaloides. 



T. imperforate, globosa, solida, oblique striata, (pallide cornea) ?, zonis 

 3-castaneis cingulata ; spira elevata ; anfr. 5, convexiusculis, ultimo pone 

 labrum scrobiculato intus tuberculum formante ; apeitura perobliqua, ovata, 

 intus bidentata, dente altero ad marginem basalem, altero intra aperturam ; 

 perist. albo, late reflexo, umbilicum tegente. 



Diam. maj. 21. min. 17, alt. 12, mill. 



I?a6.— Haiti ? 



Shell imperforate, globose, thick, obliquely striated, (pale horn color) ?, en- 

 circled by three brown bands ; spire elevated ; whorls five, rather convex, the 

 last furrowed behind the lip, forming a tubercle witliin ; aperture very obli(|ue, 

 ovate, with two teeth, one on the basal margin, the other within the aperture; 

 peristome white, widely reflected, covering the umbilicus. 



Allied to H. trizonalis, Grat., and also in the peculiar arrangement of the 

 teeth to H. cepa, Miill. From the former it differs, in having the umbilicus 

 entirely closed ; in the internal tubercle, which is stouter than in trizonalis ; 

 in the more elevated spire ; in being heavier, and more coarsely striated. 

 From cepa, it is readily distinguished by its more elevated spire, smaller 

 size, and more oblique aperture. 



I am in doubt as to the locality of this shell, but from the singular arrange- 

 ment of the teeth, resembling both trizonalis and ccpa, am disposed to refer 

 it to Haiti. 



A copy of the Proceedings for July and August was placed on the 

 table. 



1861.] 




33 i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Nov. 5th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Descriptions of new specifis of American tertiary Fossils, and of a 

 new carboniferous Cephalopod, by Wm. M. Gabb. 



A monograph of the genus Aegiotbus with descriptions of new species, 

 by Elliott Coues. 



Note on the Bartram oak, (Quercus heterophylla,) by S. B. Buckley. 



New species of Coleoptera inhabiting the Pacific district of the 

 United States, by John L. Le Conte, M. D. 



Notes on certain Decapod Crustacea, by Wm. Stimpson. 



Nov. 12th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Notes on Cretaceous Fossils, with descriptions of a few additional 

 new species, by Wm. M. Gabb. 



Notes on the Coleopterous Fauna of Lower California, by John L. 

 Le Conte, M. D. 



Monograph of the Polyzoa of the Secondary and Tertiary formations 

 of North America, by Wm. M. Gabb, and George H. Horn, M. D. 



New Unionida3 of the United States, by Isaac Lea. 



Nov. Wfh. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Description of a new species of North American Grouse, by George 

 Suekley, M. D., U. S. A. 



Descriptions of new Birds from Western Africa in the Museum of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia', by John Cassin. 



Description of a new Mexican Bat, by Harrison Allen, M. D. 



A copy of the Proceedings for September and October was placed on 

 the table. 



The following Resolution was adopted : 



That the President of the Academy be requested to invite Dr. Isaac 

 I. Hayes, commander of the late Arctic Expedition, to attend the next 

 meeting of the Academy, and to give such information as he may con- 

 sider of special interest iu relation to the expedition. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Nov. 2Qth. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the CLair. 



Ninety-one members present. 



In accordance with the invitation extended at the preceding meeting, 

 Dr. Hajes gave a narrative of the explorations of his late Arctic expe- 

 dition. He made copious collections in various departments of Natural 

 History, which, with great liberality, he placed at the disposal of the 

 Academy, for the selection of such specimens as are desirable additions 

 to the Museum. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Journal : 



Monograph of the Polyzoa of the Secondary and Tertiary formations 

 of North America, by Wm. M. Gabb, and George H. Horn, M. D. 



New Unionidae of the United States, by Isaac Lea. 



Descriptions of new Birds from Western Africa in the Museum of 

 the x\cademy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, by John Cassin. 



And the following in the Proceedings : 



Notes on the Coleopterous Faana of Lower California. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE. 



The Coleoptera of Lower California, thus far unknown to science, are novr, 

 by the industry of my indefatigable friend, Mr. John Xantus, capable of beinc 

 duly compared with those of contiguous regions. His collections embrace (as 

 I am informed by him) more than 500 species, of which the portions thus far sent 

 to me contain 114. It is not my intention on the present occasion to describe 

 the new species which have thus become known to me, but rather to await the 

 arrival of the remainder of the collections, and then to prepare a synopsis of the 

 fauna. In this paper I will merely call attention to the relations between the 

 fauna of the region in question and those of California, Arizona, Mexico and 

 Texas, describing only a few of the most conspicuous and characteristic 

 species. 



Among the 114 species which I have received, the following are found in 

 Upper California (maritime): Cicindela sigmoidea Lbc; C. hemorrhagica iec. ,• 

 Hyd^ophilus californicus Zee ; Temnochila chlorodia Zee ; Sphenophorus pro- 

 cerus Lee; Dcrmestes -Mannerheimii Lee; D. vulpinus Lmn. 



These are found in Arizona : Saprinus fimbriatus Lee. ; Cerenopus concolor 

 fyec. ; Hydrophilus limbalis Lee. ; H. ellipticus Lee; Diplotaxis angulata Lee; 

 Clerus latecinctus Lee; Asclera cana Lee; Dineutus sublineatus Aul/e, (9 in- 

 teger Lee); Sinoxylon asperum Lee; Arbopalus eurystethus Zee. 



And these in Texas and New Mexico: Megacephala Carolina L)ej. ; Casnonia 

 pennsylvanica ; Lebia grandis i7ert^3.; Plochionus tiraidus Iluld. ; Derobrachus 

 geminalus Lee; Elaphidiou validum Zee.; Tragidion annulatum Lee; Den- 

 drobias 4-maculatu3; Coccinella abdominalis Say ; Acmaeodera flavomarginata: 

 Dermestes vulpinus Linn.; Euparia strigata?; Ligyrus rufinasua Zee; Ludius 

 (Crigmus) texanus Lae; Bostrichus punctipennis Lee; Notoxus monodon ? ; Sito- 

 philus oryzae ; Hydrophilus triangularis Say ; Poiycaon exesus Lee; Calosoma 

 Ecutator Fabr. 



Of the remaining species nearly all appear to be new ; the genera are those 

 already known in our territory, with the exception of one species of Megasoma, 

 several species (perhaps five) of Brenthus, allied to the common Mexican species, 

 and three Cerambycidte of unknown genera. 



1861.] 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A very few are closely allied to, and perhaps identical with described Mesicaa 

 species, but the number is very small. 



Some of the more conspicuous aud peculiar species are described below : 

 enough has been stated to show that the afRuities of the fauna are with that of 

 the region extending from the Colorado Desert across to the Rio Grande valley, 

 thereby confirming the results obtained* by Prof. Baird and Mr. Copef from 

 the study of the vertebrata collected by Mr. Xantus. 



The limited number of species of tbose two classes precludes the possibility 

 of the occurrence of many new forms in the region here treated of; but in the 

 number of peculiar species of tbe much more extensive class of insects seen in 

 Mr. Xantus' collections, we recognize that Lower California constitutes one or 

 more provinces of tlie Interior district, as defined by me in the introduction to 

 my synopsis of the Coleoptera of Kansas and New Mexico. J 



The preponderance of Tenebrionidas, both in genera and species seen ia the 

 fauna of Upper California and Arizona has here been partially destroyed. The 

 genera which survive are, however, such as are already known from the last 

 mentioned region. None of those peculiar to maritime California have as yet 

 occurred. 



Megasoma Kirby. 



M. T h e r si te s, piceo-niger ; ^ sordide pubescens, capite cornu elongate 

 apice bifurco, thorace dense punctulato, angulis anticis acutis divaricatis, cornu 

 brevi apice emarginato, elytris punctulatis et obsolete punctatis ; 9 punctata, 

 thorace glabro el}tris parce pubescentibus, basi glabris. Long. 1-18 — 1-40. 



Cape tian Lucas. Very much smaller than the other species, of which it ap- 

 proaches most nearly to M. H e c t o r , but the anterior angles of the thorax are 

 divergent. 



P)dryomia Burm. (emend. Lac.) 



Eu. f a s c i f e r a , nigra, clypeo apice truncato et late reflexo, thorace latitu- 

 dine baud breviore, lateribus obliquis parum rotundatis, nigro nitido, parce 

 punctato, margine basali lateribusque flavis, his puncto nigro ante medium no- 

 tatis, elytris opacis, a humeris paulo angustatis, margine huraerali fasciis dua- 

 bus latis apiceque fiavis, pectore abdominisque lateribus pallide pilosis. Long. 

 •66. 



Cape San Lucas. 



Chalcolepidius Esch. 



C. rubripennis, niger, squamulis minutis aureo-smaragdinis dense tec- 

 tus, thorace latitudine fere sesquilongiore, lateribus rotundatis, angulis posticis 

 brevibus divergentibus, elytris rubris, striis nigris punctatis, interstitiis paulo 

 convexis. Long. 1-11 — 1-75. 



Cape San Lucas. A specimen also sent as found at Cajon Pass, California. 

 Belongs to the group of the genus, having the scutellum triangular, slightly 

 emarginate in front, and the third joint of the antennse equal to the fourth. The 

 antennje are serrate in both sides. 



Lycus Fabr. 



L. cruentus, laete coccineus, thorace latitudine breviore, apice carinato, dein 

 fivea rhomboidei impresso, elytris postice sensim dilatatis thorace duplo la- 

 tioribus, margine costisque quatuor parum elevatis, interstitiis rugose punctatis, 

 a dodrante ad apicem nigris, tibiis tarsis antennis capiteque nigris, hoc angusto 

 thorace hand breviore. Long -37 — -53. 



Cape San Lucas. The elytra of the females are less dilated behind so as to 

 be only one half wider than the thorax. 



* Proceedinas Acad. Nat. Sci. 1859, 299. 

 tibid, 186ir30.5. 



I Smithsonian Contributions, vol. xi. p. iv. (These results are also alluded to on page 

 49 of these Proceedings for 1860.) 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Pelecyphorus Sol. 



p. segrotus, ater opacus, tborace latitudine baud breviore, lateribus late 

 rotundatis serratis, postice subangustato, et lateribus sinuato, aagulis posticis 

 acutis, basi late emarginato, lateribus et plaga dorsali postica transversim ru- 

 gose punctatis ; elytris thorace duplo iatioribus, ovalibus postioe valde declivibus 

 et prolongatis, humeris rotuadatis, margine costaque discoidali poslice magis 

 elevata et abbreviata rugis transversis uudulatis elevatis coanexis, epipleuris 

 sublffivibus. Long. -90. 



One specimen. Cape San Lucas. In general appearance resembles in an 

 extraordinary manner P. morbillosus Lee. (Pr. Ac. 1858, 74), but, besides 

 minor differences, ttie humeri are not tootiied but rounded. 



P. bifurcus, ater, subnitidus, tliorace punctato valde convexo, lateribus 

 rotundatis, basi sinuato, angulis omnibus acutis, margine anguste reflexo, dorso 

 profunde canaliculato ; elytris postice sensim Iatioribus, basi subemarginatis, 

 angulo humerali distincto obtuse, parce punctatis, margine elevato pone trien- 

 tem duplici. Long. -73. 



One specimen. Cape San Lucas. The elevated lateral margin of the elytra 

 bifurcates at the anterior third, the portions then diverge, neither reaching the 

 tip; the inner is a litile more elevated, but also a little shorter than the outer 

 portion. 



P. sexcostatus, sordide niger, parce pubescens, thorace latitudine panic 

 breviore plaiiiusculo, lateribus late rotundatis anguste reflesis, angulis acutis, 

 baud dense punctato ; elytris elongato-ovalibus, parce punctaiis, margine later- 

 al! serrulate costisque dorsalibus duabus, (interna Integra, altera utrinque 

 abbreviata) acute elevatis. Long. -50. 



One specimen. Cape San Lucas. In form somewhat resembles P. paral- 

 lel u s Xec, but the sides of the thorax and elytra are more rounded. 



Centrioptera Mann. 



C. spiculifera, nigra, subnitida, thorace latitudine breviore, postice an- 

 gustato lateribus valde rotundatis, postice breviter paulo sinuatis, angulis pos- 

 ticis rectis ; elytris elongato-ovalibus, thorace parum Iatioribus, seriatim punc- 

 tatis, interstitiis internis planis parce uniseriatim punctatis, aJ apicera et ex- 

 ternis tuberculis valde acutis ornatis, femoribus posticis intus tuberculis exas- 

 peratis. Long. 1-08. 



Larger and stouter than C. m u r i c a t a Zee, with the tubercles more acute 

 and more elevated, so as to become towards the apex actual short spines ; the 

 sides of the thorax are also not strongly punctured. 



Cryptoglossa Sol. 

 C. seriata, nigra subnitida, thorace latitudine breviore, parum convexo, 

 postice modice angustato, lateribus rotundatis postice subsinuatis, angulis pos- 

 ticis rectis, elytris subovatis, postice subacutis, seriatim punctatis, interstitiis 

 parce uniseriatim punctatis, externis postice tuberculis parum elevatis exaspe- 

 ratis. Long. -75 — -86. 



Cape San Lucas. Has very much the form of Centrioptera. but the hind 

 thighs are not at all serrate. 



Cerenopus Lee. 



C. cribratus, niger, subnitidus, thorace ovato, convexo, latitudine longi- 

 ore, basi late subemarginato, elytris seriatim cribratis, ad apicem utrinque 

 tuberculo magno obtuso, alteroque parvo suturali armatis. Long. '55 — -71. 



Mas tibiis anticis introrsum sinuatis, et serratis, femoribus posticis dente 

 magno acuto armatis. 



Femina tibiis anticis crassioribus baud serratis femoribus posticis simplici- 

 bus. 



Cape San Lucas. Of the same general form as C. concolor Lcc. 



1861.] 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DiABROTiCA (Chevr.) Er. 



D.? in sol it a, supra sordide flava, thorace latitudine duplo breviore, apice 

 Eubsinuato angulis aaticis protninulis, basi emarginato angulis obtusis subro- 

 tundalis, lateribus anguste marginatis, elylris thorace latioribus oblongis, con- 

 fertim pundatis, gutta posthumerali, alteraque discoidali pone medium, nigris 

 ornatis, scutello nigro ; subtus niger, abdominis segmentis flavo-piceo margin- 

 atis, femoribus flavis palpis antennisque nigris, his thorace elytrisque baud 

 brevicribus. 



Mas alatus abdomine elylris baud longiore. Long. •23. 



Femina aptera, abdomine inflato. elytris plus duplo longiore. Long. -46. 



Cape San Lucas. The diflFerence in size between the sexes is produced en- 

 tirely by the abdomen of the female being immensely distended. The first 

 joint of the antennae is sometimes piceous, and the head has sometimes a short 

 black occipital line. The thorax is moderately convex, with a slight impression 

 at the middle, and another at the base ; there is also a faint transverse impres- 

 sion before the middle. The second and third joints of the antennae are together 

 equal to the fourth. 



It is extraordinary to find the genera of the Pacific coast of most diverse 

 families in which the abdomen of one or both sexes is imperfectly covered by 

 the elytra, and the wings wanting, thus unexpectedly increased by a Chysome- 

 lide. Tliere does not appear to me any sufficient reason for separating the pre- 

 sent species from Diabrotica, though I have not as yet studied the group to 

 which it belongs sufl5ciently to entitle my opinion to much weight. 



New species of COLEOPTERA inhabiting the Pacific district of the United 



States. 



BY JOHN L. LECONTE, M. D. 



The species described in the present paper have been derived partly from 

 contributions of friends, partly from Government expeditions. Those from 

 the Northwestern Boundary Commission were made by Mr. George Gibbs, 

 and the late Dr. Kennerley ; those from Lieut. MuUan's Wagon Road Expe- 

 dition were collected by Mr. John Pearsall, and have been submitted to me 

 by the Smithsonian Institution. It is much to be regretted that the most 

 valuable portion of the last mentioned collection, procured within the moun- 

 tainous region at the head of the Missouri river, has in great part been 

 rendered by the collector unavailable for scientific research ; the restrictions 

 placed upon investigations by the Entomological Society of Philadelphia, now 

 in possession of the larger part of the collection, being such as to render any 

 satisfactory comparisons extremely difficult. 



I must return my cordial acknowledgements to Mr. Andrew Murray, now 

 of London, for the liberality with which he has given specimens, many in- 

 deed unique, in aid of my investigations ; and also to Mr. Alex. Agassiz, for ex- 

 cellent collections made at San Mateo, Mendocino City, and on the Gulf of 

 Georgia; and to Mr. C. M. Bache, U. S. Coast Survey, for a good series of spe- 

 cies fi'om the islands of Santa Barbara and Santa Cruz ; and likewise to Mr. G. 

 Davidson, U. S. Coast Survey, for his continued efforts in supplying speci- 

 mens from California. 



1 . Cicindela longilabris Sai/. A beautiful green variety of this species 

 was found at Kootenay Camp ; a similar variety has been found in Newfound- 

 land. 



2. Cicindela m o n t a n a, atra, labro magno, antice obtuse dentato, lateribus 

 sinuato, thorace transverse, trapezoideo, modice convexo, confertim rugoso, 

 impressionibus profundis, elytris nitidis, confertim punctatis, fascia trans- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 839 



versa media sinuata, obtuse deflexa, ssepe deficiente alba ; subtus nigra parce 

 albo-pilosa. Long. '6. 



Mas labro mandibularumque basi albis ; femina labro mandibulisque nigris. 



Valleys of the Rocky Mountains. Belongs to the same group (III. of my 

 Monograph, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. xi. 33) as C. 1 o n g i 1 a b r i s , from which 

 it differs at first sight by the shining and more deeply punctured elytra, as 

 well as by the black labrum of the female. 



3. Trachypachys Gibbsii, ovalis, nigro-seneus, nitidus, thorace latitudine 

 fere duplo breviore, antrorsnm sensim angustato, lateribus rotundatis, postice 

 profunde transversim impresso, utrinque subbifoveato, et parce punctate, 

 elytris versus suturam seriatim punctatis. Long. "25. 



East of Fort Colville. Larger and broader than T. ine rmis Motsch., and 

 very different by the form of the thorax and its posterior impression. The 

 thorax is not at all narrowed behind, but gradually narrowed almost from the 

 base to the apex ; the impression is somewhat punctured, with two moder- 

 ately distinct foveje each side. 



4. Pterostichus or eg o nu s, longiusculus, niger, nitidus, (elytris feminse 

 opaciusculis) thorace latitudine baud breviore, postice angustato, lateribus 

 late rotundatis postice subsinuatis, tenuiter marginatis, angulis posticis sub- 

 rectis, basi utrinque parce punctato, et stria basalilongiuscula impresso, linea 

 dorsali profunda, elytris striis tenuibus baud punctatis, interstitiis planis, 3io 

 foveis 5 impresso. Long. '55 — -58. 



East of Fort Colville. This species belongs to the same division as P. o r i- 

 nomum, adstrictus, &c., {Bothriopterus Ch-SiUdioiT), but differs much in 

 shape from those species, resembling, in fact, very closely in outline our com- 

 mon P. a d X u s, and having the margin of the thorax not wider than in 

 that species. 



5. Anisodactylus vi ri des ce n s, elongato-oblongus, seneo-viridis, nitidus, 

 capite utrinque fortius baud dense punctato, thorace latitudine paulo breviore 

 postice parum angustato, lateribus late rotundatis postice subobliquis baud 

 sinuatis anguste marginatis, angulis posticis obtusis subrotundatis, basi 

 utrinque impresso, apice basi lateribusque punctato, elytris striatis subpubes- 

 centibus, interstitiis alternis punctatis alternis, sublsevibus, 3io postice 1-punc- 

 tato ; subtus niger. Long. '34 — -SS. 



California ; Mr. A. Murray. Cape Mendocino ; Mr. A. Agassiz. This spe- 

 cies is related toA. alternans Lee, but the sides of the thorax are not 

 sinuate, and tlie hind angles are not prominent. The 3d and 5 th intervals 

 are smooth, but in most specimens, on close inspection, a series of small 

 points is visible at their inner margin. The first and seventh intervals are 

 free from punctures ; the others are distinctly, but not densely punctured. 

 The piinctures emit very short pale hairs. 



6. Anisodactylus pitychrous, elongato-oblongus, nigro-piceus, nitidus, 

 thorace latitudine vix breviore, postice paulo angustato, lateribus tenuiter 

 marginatis antice rotundatis, postice obliquis, angulis posticis subrectis, basi 

 utrinque anguste impressa et punctulata, elytris striatis, interstitiis subplanis. 

 Long. -40. 



One male; California; Mr. A. Murray. This species has the form of A. 

 baltimorensis, but the basal impressions of the thorax, instead of being 

 large rounded foveae, are narrow, and the punctures are confined to the 

 depth of the impressions. The color of the head and thorax is almost black ; 

 the rest of the body has a decided piceous tinge. 



7. Harpalus fraternus Lee. Tliis species has an extensive range, being 

 found in Oregon, Kansas, Nebraska and New Mexico ; a somewhat immature 

 specimen from the last named locality was described by me as H. oblitus. 

 1861.] 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



8. Bembidium paludosum. A specimen from Oregon, given me by Mr. 

 Ulke, only differs from those found^at Lake Superior, by the thorax being a 

 little less transverse, and a little more narrowed in front. In a European 

 specimen before me, the thorax is slightly and equally narrowed before and 

 behind, and is but little broader than its length ; the single specimen from 

 Lake Superior, described by me asB. lacustre, exactly agrees with it in 

 these respects. It is impossible to say with the limited series of specimens 

 before me whether these three forms should be considered as I'aces or species. 



9. Bembidium qu adru 1 um, seneo-nigrum, nitidum, thorace minus con- 

 vexo latitudine breviore, subquadrato, postice vix angustato, lateribus late 

 rotundatis, angulis posticis subrectis. basi utrinque biimpresso, carinulaque 

 ad angulum munito ; elytris thorace latioribus parum convexis, striis fortiter 

 punctatis, ad apicem obliteratis, 3ia bipuuctata, 7ma ad apicem exarata. 

 Long. -20. 



East of Fort Colville ; Mr. Gibbs. This species has the same size, shape, 

 color and sculpture as B. salebratus £ec., except that the stri.e of the 

 elytra are obliterated at the tip, and the thorax is less rounded on the sides, 

 scarcely perceptibly narrowed behind, with the hind angles more nearly rect- 

 angular. The inner basal impression is deep, and the outer one small ; the pos- 

 terior transverse impression and the dorsal line are deeply impressed. The 

 eighth and ninth striae of the elytra are approximate, but do not unite until 

 very near the shoulder. 



10. B. dy schirinum, elougatum, convexum, nigro-seneum, pernitidum, 

 thorace transverso cordato, postice angustato, lateribus rotundatis ad angulos 

 posticos rectos breviter siuuatis, basi utrinque profunde foveato, et carinula 

 externa munito, elytris ovalibus, thorace paulo latioribus seriatim punctatis, 

 postice IfBvibus, interstitio 3io bipunctato, tibiis tarsisque nigro-testaceis. 

 Long. -19. 



East of Fort Colville ; one specimen. Allied to B. nitensiec. {Peryphus 

 picipes JMann.), but is smaller and mdre convex, with the sides of the thorax 

 less sinuate towards the hiud angles, and the base free from punctures. 



11. Agabus morulus, latiusculus, subovatus, niger, nitidus, hand reti- 

 culatus, dense subtiliter puuctulatus, antennis palpis tarsisque piceo-rufis, 

 elytrorum seriebus punctoruin fere obsoletis. Long. -22. 



California ; Mr. Murray ; one specimen. Resembles in form A. o b t u s a t u s, 

 but is less obtuse anteriorly, and not at all reticulated ; the anterior tarsi of 

 the male are but very slightly dilated, and the claws are not deformed. 

 There is no appearance of elytral spots. The body is equally attenuated be- 

 fore and behind. 



12. Agabus 1 i n e e 1 1 u s, regulariter ovalis, piceo-ferrugineus nitidus, sub- 

 tilissime, reticulatus, elytris testaceis, sutura et vittis utrinque 4 angustis 

 nigris antice abbreviatis, nebulisque externis piceis ornatis, seriebus puncto- 

 rum solitis distinctis, sternis piceis. Long. '30. 



California ; Mr. Murray ; one male. The only other vittate species found 

 in the United States isA. tseniolatus Harris, from which this is abund- 

 antly distinct by the narrower vittse occupying only the inner two-thirds of 

 elytra ; the meshes of the reticulation are not so small ; the head and thorax 

 is clouded with darker color as in that species. 



13. Agabus confertus, ovalis, tnodice convexus, asneo-niger nitidus, 

 dense punctulatus, hand reticulatus, thorace minus fortiter marginato, latitu- 

 dine fere triplo breviore, elytris lineola laterali guttaque postica pallidis 

 ornatis, seriebus punotorum solitis distinctis, antennis ore pedibusque anticis 

 piceo-rufis. Long. -32. 



Cabo de los Reyes ; Mr. G. Davidson ; one male. Of the same form and size 

 as A. s e m i V i 1 1 a t u s Lee, but with the thorax shorter, more strongly nar- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



rowed in front, and less strongly margined at the sides, and the upper surface 

 of the body much more strongly punctulate ; the sides of the thorax also form 

 a very obtuse angle with the sides of the elytra. The sexual characters are 

 also different ; in the present, the claws of the anterior tarsi of the male are 

 long and slightly deformed ; inA. semivittatus they are not elongated, 

 but the inner one is toothed at the base. The trochanters and thighs of the 

 middle and hind legs are tinged with reddish brown. 



14. Agabus d i s c o r s, elongato-oralis, minus convexus, feneo-niger, dense 

 minus subtiliter reticulatus, thoraee lateribus modice rotundatis margine 

 crassiore rufescente, ad basin elytris vix conspicue angustiore, his longitudin- 

 aliter reticulato-strigosis, ore maculis que solitis verticalibus piceo-rufis, pedi- 

 bus rufo-tinctis. Long. -40. 



Mas nitidus, elytris thoracisque lateribus profundius strigosis, tarsis 

 anterioribus modice dilatatis, unguiculis anticis valdw elongatis subsinuatis. 

 Femina opaca quasi velntina, elytris minus profunde strigosis. 

 Washington Territory ; Mr. Gibbs. A very distinct species. 



15. Helophorus alternatus, elongatus, capita rugoso, viridi-seneo, 

 cupreo variegato, thoraee latitudine fere sesqui breviore, postice subangus- 

 tato, lateribus late rotundatis margine depresso latiusculo testaceo, angulis 

 posticis subobtusis, prsecipue versus latera granulato viridi-aeneo, lineis 5 solitis 

 latis profundis aureis, intermediis sinuatis, elytris elongato-ovalibus thoraee 

 parumlatioribns, testaceis, fusco-nebulosis, vel piceis testaceo-maculatis, striis 

 profunde crenatis, interstitiis seriatim punctulatis, 2ndo et 4to latioribus et 

 minus convexis subtus niger, antennis palpis pedibusque pallidis. Long. 

 •14--15. 



California; Mr. Murray. This species is more elongated, than H. lin e- 

 a t u s, and is readily known by the elytra being somewhat wider than the 

 thorax, more regularly oval than usual, with 2d and 4th intervals wider and 

 less convex than the others. 



16. Hydrocharis g 1 a u cu s, ovalis, convexus, supra nitore argenteo-cceruleo 

 glaucus,' thoraee lateribus magis rotundatis, basi recta angulis posticis obtusis 

 et rotundatis, punctis paucis versus latera notato, elytris striis e punctis 

 parvis compositis, interstitiis alternis irregulariter grosse punctatis, alter- 

 nis punctis paucis minutis impressis ; subtus niger, pedibus coeruleo-glaucis. 

 Long. -60. 



California ; Mr. A. Murray. A very beautiful species with the sides of the 

 thorax more roiinded than in C. sub s t r i a t us Zee, which it resembles 

 somewhat in the sculpture of the elytra, though the strias of punctures are 

 more distinct, and the punctures of "the intervals much larger. 



17. Pliilhydrus i mbellis, ellipticus, convexus, nitidus, dense punctula- 

 tus, capite nigro-piceo, thoraee piceo, lateribus pallidis, elytris piceo-ochraceis 

 vix conspicue striatim punctatis, stria suturali antice obliterata, subtus niger, 

 tibiis tarsisque testaceis. Long. '24. 



One specimen ; California ; Mr. Murray. This species belongs to the group 

 (a, Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil. 7, 369,) having the mesosternum and 

 presternum not carinated. It differs from the other species known to me by 

 the faint traces of striae upon the elytra ; the three confused rows of punctures 

 seen in the others are here scarcely observed as separate from the rows of 

 punctures constituting the striae. 



18. Philhydrus no r m atus, ovalis, modice convexus, nigro-piceus, niti- 

 dus, vix punctulatus, elytris striis integris 10, scutellarique e punctis digestis 

 compositis, antennarum basi palpisque testaceis. Long. '22. 



One specimen ; Bodega ; Mr. Davidson. The presternum is not carinated, 

 the mesosternum has a small protuberance near its hind margin. The outer 



1861.] 




842 procei;dings op the academy of 



strise of the elytra are deeper than the inner ones, and the intervals in some 

 places are marked with faint traces of obsolete intermediate striae. 



19. Cyllidium nigrellum, hemisphsericum, nigrum nitidum, elytris paree 

 subtilissime punctulatis, stria suturali profunda antice obliterata, pedibus 

 piceis'. Long. '06. 



San Diego, California. The sides of the thorax and elytra are diaphanous, 

 and therefore appear brown by transmitted light. 



20. Cyllidium pallidum, hemisphsericum, nitidum, capite thoraceque 

 piceis, hoc limbo omnl pallido, elytris pallidis, parce subtilissime punctulatis, 

 stria suturali profunda antice obliterata ; subtus piceum, antenuis palpis pedi- 

 busque pallidis. "05. 



At the junction of the Colorado and Gila rivers, California, under stones 

 and pieces of wood, in wet places.* 



21. Thinopinus variegatus; Trichocanthus variegatus Motsch. A speci- 

 men found by Mr. Davidson at Bodega diifers in many respects from those of 

 T. p ictus Zee, found by me at San Diego. The head is destitute of the 

 Y-shaped frontal spot, which in T. p i c t u s is connected with the occipital trans- 

 verse spot ; the latter is much more defined, and different in shape. The two 

 ring-shaped black spots of the thorax are interrupted opposite the hind angles 

 of the thorax, but the basal portion is complete ; in T. p i c t u s it is the lat- 

 ter that is absent. The elytra are sparsely but strongly punctured, the lateral 

 margin and a semiannular spot extending from the base to the external hind 

 angle is black ; in T, p i c t u s the elytra are very feebly punctured, and the 

 elytral spot is annular, interrupted towards the humerus. Tlie spots of the 

 dorsal surface of the abdomen are much larger, than in T, pic t u s. 



22. Hadrotes extensus. Several specimens found by Mr. Gibbs in 

 Washington Territory differ from the Russian American H. c r a s s u s , by the 

 body being much more slender, and the thorax comparatively longer. In 

 sculpture I find no difference, but the form of the thorax and body requires 

 them to be regarded as indicating a separate species, to which the present 

 name is applicable. 



23. Staphylinus submetallicus, seneo-niger, pubescens, capite thora- 

 ceque nigro-seneis, confertissime punctatis, illo liuea tenui Isevi antice oblite- 

 rata, hoc latitudine longiore, lateribus parallelis, vitta dorsali nitida Isevi ; 

 scutello atro-tomentoso, elytris nigro-seneis, densissime subtilius punctatis ; 

 abdomine dorso pube subtili aureo-variegato bifariam nigro-maculato. Long, 

 •62. 



Tejon ; Mr. Xantus, one specimen ; another one from Mr. Murray. The 

 outer joints of the antennae are somewhat transverse. 



24. Staphylinus s a phyrinu s, niger pubescens, capite thoraceque Isete 

 cyaneis, dense punctatis, illo linea tenui Iffivi antice obliterata, hoc latitudine 

 longiore, postice paulo angustato, vitta dorsali nitida laevi, elytris cyaneis 

 densissime subtilius punctatis, abdominis segmentis duobus ultimis, palpis, 

 coxis pedibusque Isete rufo-testaceis, anteunis piceis basirufescentibus. Long. 

 •40— -52. 



San Jose and Fort Tejon, California. The outer joints of the antennae are 

 slightly transverse. 



25. Staphylinus 1 u t e i p e s , niger, pubescens, capite thoraceque olivaceo- 



* I add the description of a third species from the Atlantic district. 



C. nigriceps, hemisphfericum, supra pallida testaceum nitidum, capite nigro, 

 thoracis disco obscuriore, elytris parce subtiliter punctulatis, stria suturali antice 

 obliterata; subtus nigropiceum, antennis palpis pedibusque pallidis. Long. •05. 



Lake Superior, one specimen. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 343 



teneis, dense fortiter punctatis, illo linea tenui Isevi antice obliterata, hoc lati- 

 tudine longiore postice paulo angustato, vitta dorsali nitida Isevi, elytris con- 

 fertissime subtiliter punctatis, olivaceo-seueis,abdomine vix maculato, pedibus 

 rufis vel rufo-piceis. Long. '56. 



San Jose, California, under bark of oak trees. The ventral segments are 

 sometimes annulate with dark red. The outer joints of the antennse are 

 slightly transverse. These three species and the next belong to Erichson's 

 8 th family. 



26. Staphylinus pleuralis, piceo-niger, fusco-pubescens, capite thora- 

 ceqi;e dense sat fortiter punctatis, illo linea tenui laevi antice obliterata, hoc 

 latitudine longiore, postice paulo angustato, vitta angusta dorsali laevi nitida, 

 scutello atro-tomentoso, elytris confertissime subtiliter punctatis, piceis, 

 lateribus late obscure rufis, abdomine supra tomento aureo irrorato, pedibus 

 rufis, coxis piceis. Long. '56 — '63. 



Oregon. The punctures of the head and thorax are finer than in S. 1 u t e - 

 ip e s . The golden pubescence of the dorsal segments seems to be generally 

 diffused, so far as I can judge by the specimens before me, and there are faint 

 indications of two rows of velvety black spots. 



27. Liparocephalus b r e V i p e n n i s Mdklin, Bull. Mosc, 1853, 191. 



A specimen collected by Mr. A. Agassiz at Cape Mendocino agrees with the 

 description of this species, except that the color is dark brown, and the an- 

 tennae are not obviously shorter than the head and thorax. A comparison 

 with a specimen from Russian America will be necessary before it will be pro- 

 per to express an opinion regarding the specific nature of these differences. 



28. Hister (Platysoma) punctiger, elongatus, parallelus, pariim con- 

 vexus, niger nitidus, capite parce punctulato fronte vix concava, striola In- 

 tegra, thorace disco punctulato, lateribus parce punctatis, stria marginali ad 

 apicem ambiente, elytris obsolete parce punctulatis, apice punctis paucis, 

 notatis, 6-striatis striis internis duabus ante medium antice abbreviatis (in- 

 terno longiore) punctoque basali notatis ; mesosterni stria marginali Integra ; 

 pedibus piceo-rufis, tibiis anticis 4-, intermediis 3-, posticis 2-dentatis. Long. 

 ■16. 



California. Mr. A. Murray. Larger and wider than H. par al lei u s, and 

 much less convex, resembling in form H. aequus Lee, but much larger and a 

 little more convex.* 



Amaetus. (n. g. Nitidulidae, trib. Brachypterini. ) 



Palpi labiales articulo ultimo elongato, ovali; unguiculi simplices, pygidium 

 (^ segmentulo anali auctum. 



The external appearance of the species of this genus described below is that 

 of Carpophilus, and very nearly that of C. niger, but the absence of antennal 

 grooves will at once distinguish it. The outer lobe of the maxillae is long and 

 slender, not hooked at the extremity, with a large terminal vesicle. The 

 labial palpi have the first joint short, the second one half shorter than the 



*Resembling in appearance this species, but still larger and more convex, 

 with the striae of the elytra more distinctly punctured, and the sutural striae 

 shorter than the inner dorsal one is a species from Ohio given me by Mr. Ulke, 

 which I would name 



Hister (Platysoma) has alls, elongatus, cylindricus, niger nitidus, capite 

 parce punctato, fronte concava, striola Integra, thorace disco parce punctulato, 

 versus apicem et lateribus paulo fortius, stria marginali ad apicem ambiente, 

 elytris ad basim profunde transversim impressis, fere marginatis, 6-striatis, 

 striis punctatis, duabus internis antice abbreviatis (interno breviore) ; mesos- 

 terni stria marginali apice deficiente, pedibus, nigris tibiis anticis 4-, intermediis 

 posticisque 3-dentatis. Long. "20. 



1861.J 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



third, which is elongate oval; the maxillary palpi have the last joint conical, a 

 little longer than the preceding. The mentum is broad, emarginate in front. 

 The labrum is emarginate, the mandibles flat, not toothed. The club of the 

 antennse is 3-jointed and elongate, the joints but slightly transverse. The 

 second and third ventral segments are shorter than the first and fourth ; the 

 fifth is the longest ; in the males a small but distinct dorsal segment is added. 

 The tibife are broad and pubescent, with small terminal spurs ; the tarsi are 

 dilated, the claws slender, a little broader at the base, but not toothed. 



29. A. r u f ip e s, ovalis parum convexus nigro-piceus, helvo-pubescens, con- 

 fertim punctatus, thorace latitudine fere duplo breviore, antice truncate, 

 lateribus et basi rotundato, elytris thorace sesqui longioribus, lateribus et 

 apice late indeterminate ,rufo-testaceis, antennis pedibusque rufo-testaceis. 

 Long. -20. 



Mendocino, California. A. Agassiz. The surface is equally punctured both 

 above and beneath. The antennse are as long as the head and thorax united. 



30. Trogosita sinuata, nigro-picea nitida, depressa, capite thoraceque 

 sat parce punctatis, hoc latitudine paulo breviore, postice parum angustato, 

 lateribus late rotundatis, postice sinuatis, margine fortius reflexo, angulis pos- 

 ticis rectis, basi sinuatim truucata, elytris oblongis, basi late emarginatis, 

 humeris rectis, striis punctatis hand impressis, interstitiis planis, parce rugu- 

 losis, biseriatim subtiliter punctulatis, antennis pedibusque piceo-rufis, illis 

 clava triarticulata. Long. "28. 



East of Fort Colville, one specimen ; Mr. Gibbs. This species resembles in 

 appearance T. corticalis Mels., and several others from the Atlantic States, 

 but is easily known by the thorax being less transverse and less narrowed 

 behind, with the hind angles more prominent, and the base not rounded, but 

 nearly truncate and sinuate, and slightly emarginate at the middle. 



31. Trogoderma ornatum Lee. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phil. 7, 110. 



A specimen of this species from California, differing from those found in 

 New York, by the spots of white hair being larger, was sent me by Mr. A. 

 Murray. 



32. Cryptorhopalum nigricorne, ovale convexum, nigrum pubescens, 

 subtiliter dense punctatum, thorace lateribus oblique late rotundatis, tarsis 

 piceis, antennis nigris basi piceis. Long. "09. 



California, one specimen ; Mr. Murray. Differs from C. triste and pi- 

 c i c o r n e Lee. (Proc. Acad. 7, 111), by the surface being more finely punc- 

 tured both above and beneath, by the sides of the thorax being less rounded, 

 and by the club of the antennse being black, 



33. Orphilus subnitidus, ovalis convexus, antice obtuse attenuatus, 

 niger subnitidus, thorace punctulato, ad basin vage arcuatim impresso, angulis 

 posticis paulo prolongatis, lateribus subexplanatis, valde declivibus, elytris 

 sat subtiliter punctatis, dorso ante medium vage impressis. Long. '13 — -IQ. 



Le Conte, Classification of Coleoptera of North America, 109. 

 California and Oregon. Broader, larger and more finely punctured than 0. 

 a t e r Er. 



34. Syncalypta albonotata, ovalis, utrinque attenuata, convexa, nigra, 

 fusco-squamulosa, setis clavatis longiusculis nigro-piceis hispida, elytris gut- 

 tis pluribus parvis argenteo-squamosis ornatis, capite thorace que dense 

 punctatis, elytris striis tenuibus, suturali postice externisque profundis. 

 Long. '11. 



Washington Territory, one specimen ; Mr. Ulke. Larger than S. echin- 

 ata Lee, with the thorax more coarsely and densely punctured; easily 

 known by the silvery white spots of tbe elytra. 



[Nov 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 845 



35. Dorcus mazama ((j^) nigro-piceu3, capite punctato, thorace vix 

 angustiore, mandibulis apice acutis, dente parvo medio armatis, thorace lati- 

 tudine plus duplobreviore, postice angustiore, lateribus medio obtuse angulatis, 

 angulis posticis rectis, disco modice, versus latera sat dense punctato, elytris 

 modice puuctatis subtiliter rugosis, tibiis anticis 4-dentatis, et dente superiore 

 obsoleto munitis, tibiis posterioribus dentibus 3 lateralibus apicalique acutis 

 armatis. Long. (mand. excL) 1'20 



New Mexico, Mr. Ulke, one male. This species is alluded to by me on page 

 120 of my Classification of the Coleoptera of North America, as belonging to 

 Lucanus, but the form of the labrum, which is rectangular and about four 

 times as broad as its length, requires it to be placed in Dorcus. The outline 

 of the thorax differs very greatly from that of our other species, in which the 

 sides are simply and broadly rounded : in the present species the form is as 

 in Lucanus d a m a, but a little more dilated on the sides. The third tooth 

 of the middle and hind tibi?e is double, that is, there are two sharp teeth 

 placed transversely, so as to present the appearance of a single tooth. 



36. Platycerus coerulescens ((^), niger, capite thoraceque parce grosse 

 punctatis, hoc transverso, lateribus antice rectis paulo convergentibus, pone 

 medium inflexis, angulis posticis obtusis baud rotundatis, elytris nigro-cyaneis, 

 punctis striatim digestis, interstitiis irregulariter subseriatim punctatis ; man- 

 dibulis sursum incurvis, dente inferno pone apicem, alteroque superno arma- 

 tis. Long. (mand. inclus.) •48. 



Tejou and Vallecitas, California. Closely related to P. quercu s, but the 

 punctures of the head and thorax are much more distant, the lateral margin 

 of the thorax is narrower, the elytra are not at all rugous, and there are no 

 denticles between the apex of the mandibles and the tooth on the inferior 

 margin : the 6th joint of the antennae is transverse as in P. qu ere us, and 

 the club consists of four joints. 



37. Platycerus Agassi i, (9) elongato-ovalis, supra obscure seneus, ca- 

 pite thoraceque sat dense punctatis, hoc linea dorsali Isevi, latitudine duplo 

 breviore, lateribus fortiter marginatis valde rotundatis, angulis posticis rectis 

 prominulis, elytris obsolete striatis, striis punctatis, interstitiis rugosis confuse 

 punctatis ; tibiis posticis denticulo exteruo ad medium armatis. Long. "38. 



One specimen, San Mateo, California, Mr. A. Agassiz. Closely related to P. 

 dep res s us Zee. (with which P. oregonensis Westwood is probably 

 identical), but differs by the thorax being wider, with a-distinct dorsal smooth 

 line, by the interstitial punctures of the elytra being smaller, but especially 

 by the hind tibise having a small sharp tooth about the middle on the outer 

 edge. The seventh joint of the antennae is not transverse, and the mandibles 

 are small and acute, without teeth. 



Dasydera Lee* (n. g. Scarabseidae Glaphyrini.) 



Antennre 10-articulatae, clava maris scapo baud breviore triarticulata, 

 articulis baud approximatis ; palpi maxillares articulo ultimo ovali, majusculo, 

 extus profunde excavato ; mandibulae parvae obtusae ; labrum late emargin- 

 atum. Unguiculi basi latiores, baud dente armati. 



The species of this genus resembles precisely in form Lichnanthe v u 1 p i n a, 

 but is still more hairy : the characters are entirely as in Lichnanthe, except 

 that the club of the antennae is larger, the labrum is less deeply emarginate, 

 the maxillary palpi are thicker, and the last joint is oval instead of elongate, 

 and the claws are not toothed at the base. 



38. D. ursina, nigra, pilis longissimis pallidis sericeis dense tecta, capite 

 thoraceque confertissime subtilius punctatis, elytris pallida testaceis, subgla- 



1861.] 



* Class. Col. N. America, p. 133. 



23 




3t6 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACABEMl OF 



» 



l>ns, sat parce punctatis, abdomine brevioribus, apice dehiscentibus obtuse ro- 

 tundatis, tibiis tarsis autennisque rufo-te3taceis, his basi nigris. Long. '52. 



California, one male, Mr. A. Marray. The abundance of hair conceals the 

 form of the thorax, which appears to be more gradually narrowed in front than 

 in Liclmanthe v u 1 p i n a. 



39. Diplotaxig i n s i g n i 3, oblongo-ovata, convexa, rufo-ferruginea, uitida, 

 capite confertim fere grosae punctato, cljpeo marginato, antice subtruncato, 

 sutura frontali profunda, fronte transversim vix elevata ; tliorace fortiter 

 punctato, brevi, ante medium valde angustato, lateribus obliquis ad medium 

 obtuse angulatis, augulis posticis obtusis, anticis acutis, ad apicem margin- 

 ato, elytris fortiter parcius punctatis, vix tricostatis, tibiis anticis tridentatis 

 dente ultimo oblique truncato, unguiculis medio breviter dentatis. Long. "52. 



Salt Lake Desert. Resembles at first sight an immature specimen of D. 

 brevicollia Lee, but belongs to a very different group of species, being 

 related to D. H a y d e n i i Lee, (Journ. Acad. 2d ger. 3, 272). It differs from 

 the last named by the larger size, by the head and thorax being much more 

 thickly and coarsely punctured, and by the elytra being more sparsely punc- 

 tured ; the usual smooth lines of the latter are scarcely elevated, and are 

 marked with a row of small punctures. 



40. Phobetus teataceus, longius ovatus, convexus, flavo-testaceus niti- 

 dus, capite sat dense punctato, clypeo rotundato fortiter marginato, thorace 

 parce subtiliter punctato, apice valde marginato, lateribus pilis longis fimbri- 

 ato, elytris parce hand profunde punctatis, lineis solitis Isevibus, margine 

 lateral! et basali longe flavo-pilosis, stria suturali profunda ; pygidio parce 

 subtiliter punctulato, et piloso ; j)ectore pedibusque longissime pilosis, anten- 

 nis 10-articulatis. Long. '58. 



One male, Santa Cruz Island, California ; Mr. C. M. Bache. Differs from 

 P. comatus Lee. by the 10-jointed antenna, by the thorax being pilose only 

 along the side margins, more finely punctured, without any large punctures at 

 the anterior part, and by the pygidium being very finely, scarcely distinctly 

 punctured. 



A female with 9-jointed antennae, from Oregon, differs from the type of P. 

 comatus by the head being less coarsely and not confluently punctured, 

 and by the punctures and smooth ribs of the elytra being quite well marked. 

 I am not willing, in the absence of other specimens, to consider it as a dis- 

 tinct species. 



41. Cyclocephalah i rt a, oblongo-ovalis, testacea convexa nitida, pilis flavis 

 parce vestita, clypeo confluenter punctato antrorsum seusim angustato, lateri- 

 bus anguste, apice obtuso fortius marginato; tliorace latitudine duplo breviore 

 antice angustato, lateribus valde rotundatis, parce punctato, elytris punctatis, 

 vittis solitis Isevibus. Long. '50. 



One male, California, Mr. A. Murray. A very distinct species. The club 

 of the antennae is as long as the inferior portion, and the last joint of the an- 

 terior tarsi is large and tumid, with unequal claws. The frontal suture is 

 well marked ; the clypeus is confluently punctured ; the head behind the 

 suture is slightly convex, coarsely but not densely punctured. 



42. Chrysobothris vu Ic an i c a, depressa subtus nigro-cuprea, supra 

 ®neo-nigra, fortiter punctata, thorace brevi cicatricoso vage 3-canaliculato, 

 costis parcius punctatis, lateribus utrinque incurvis, elytris lineis solitis ele- 

 vatis interruptis, nitidis punctis paucis notatistransversim connexis, spatiis 

 depressis sat dense punctatis, cinereo-tiuctis, postice serrujatis, apice singula- 

 tim rotundatis. Long. "60 — '63. 



East of Fort Colville. Mr. Gibbs. Allied to C. dent ipea and ca life r • 

 ni c a, with the elytra sculptured as in the latter, but with the elevated parts 

 of the thorax rugous and punctured, though not so thickly as the depressed 

 portions. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



43. Elater moerens, ater, parum nitidus, subtiliter cinereo-pubescens, 

 thorace latitudine baud breviore, convexo, confertim fortiter punctato, postice 

 vix canaliculato, elytris autice parallelis, profuiide punctato-striatis, iutersti- 

 tiis coavexiusculis rugose punctatis, anteuuisarticalo3io2Qdo sesqui lougiore, 

 tarsisque fuscis. Loug. "46. 



East of Fort Colville, and at Siuyak water depot. Mr. Gibbs. Precisely 

 resembles E. luctuosus Lee, except tbat the pubescence is finer and cine- 

 reous, instead of brownish gray, and that the third joint of the antennae is a 

 little longer, and the thorax a "little more rounded on the sides. 



44. Elater d i m i d i a t u s , niger nitidus, pube brevi griseo-fulva baud 

 dense vestitus, thorace latitudine vix breviore, lateribus magis rotundatis, 

 fortiter baud dense punctato, postice canaliculato, elytris antice parallelis, 

 profunde punctato-striatis, interstitiis paulo convexis, rugose punctatis; a basi 

 usque ad medium rufo-testaceis, tarsis fuscis, antennis articulo 3io 2ndo sesqui 

 longiore. Long. "36. 



One specimen, Oregon. Related to E. apica tus , but the thorax is more 

 rounded on the sides, and less closely punctured. The orange color of the 

 elytra reaches only to the middle, and extends farther along the sides than 

 the suture. 



45. Cardiophorus longior, elongatus, niger nitidus, subtiliter cinereo- 

 pubescens, thorace latitudine conspicue longiore, convexo, lateribus late ro- 

 tundatis, antice posticeque jequaliter parum angustato, confertim subtiliter 

 punctulato, elytris thorace vix latioribus fortiter punctato-striatis, interstitiis 

 paulo convexis subtilissime punctulatis, autennarum articulo 2ndo, genubus, 

 tibiarum apice tarsisque fusco-testaceis. Long. 'SI. 



Bitter Root Valley, at the bead of the Missouri. Mr. .John Pearsall. The spe- 

 cimens furnished me, like all those collected by Mr. Pearsall, who was attached 

 to Lieut. MuUan's expedition, which have passed through my hands, are 

 in excessively bad condition, and I am therefore not able to fix the characters 

 of this species with precision. It is related to C. t umidico 11 i s and gag- 

 ate s Lee, but differs by the much longer thorax, which is equally narrowed 

 before and behind. From the Califoruian C. tenebrosus Lcc. it differs by 

 the same character, as also by the color being pure black. The hind angles 

 are but slightly prolonged, the basal lines are moderately long, and the thorax 

 is channeled at the base. 



As several specimens of other insects, in the collection of Mr. Pearsall, had 

 lost their color from some material in which they were preserved, it is possi- 

 ble that the antennaB may be found to be entirely black in those which are 

 well kept. 



46. Melanotus variola tus, nigro-piceus, elongatus, griseo-pubescens, 

 fronte subplana punctis grossis umbilicatis confertis impressa, thorace latitu- 

 dine parum longiore, lateribus parallelis antice rotundatis, confertim grosse 

 punctato, punctis umbilicatis, postice subcanaliculato, angulis posticis cariuatis 

 baud divergentibus, elytris fortiter puuctato-substriatis, interstitiis parum 

 convexis parce punctatis, pedibus rufis ; antennarum articulo 3io2ndo sesqui 

 inajore subtriangulari. Long. -45 — -55. 



San Pedro, California, Mr. C. M. Bache. Related to M. oregoneusis 

 and 1 o n g u 1 u s, but differs from the first by its rufous feet, and more deust ly 

 punctured thorax, and from both by the sides of the thorax being more 

 rounded, with the hind angles not diverging. 



The thorax of the female is broader, more convex and more rounded on the 

 sides than that of the male. 



47. Pityobius M u r r a y i , niger subnitidus, subtiliter vix couspicue pubes- 

 cens, thorace fortiter punctato, latitudine longiore lateribus late rotundatis, 

 angulis posticis productis divergentibus, carinatis, profunde canaliculato, 



1861.] 




818 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



medio valde excavato, et utrinque ante medium fovea magna impresso, elytris 

 striis punctatis, interstitiis paulo convexis, dense rugose punctatis, antennis 

 articulo 3io 2ndo duplo majore. Long, cf.78, $1"42. 



Mas antennarum articulis4 — 11 ramo subbasali interno, duobusque externis, 

 uno basali, altero pone medium ornatis. 



Femina antennis serratis. 



California. The male from Mr. Murray, the female from Mr. Rathvon. 



48. Limonius discoideus rufo-testaceus, opacus, pallide pubescens, 

 capite fortiter punctato, occipite nigro, fronte plana antice recte truncata, 

 thorace fortiter dense punctato, latitudine longiore antrorsum angnstato, 

 lateribus late rotundatis angulis posticis brevibus carinatis, convexo, macula 

 ovali dorsali nigra, elytris striis punctatis, interstitiis hand convexis, profunda 

 punctatis, antennis piceis, articulo 3io 2ndo plus sesqui longiore, postpectore 

 piceo ; prosterno suturis antice excavatis. Long. '40. 



Rocky Mountains, at the head of Missouri River ; for this beautiful species, 

 I am indebted to Mr. H. Feldmann. 



49. Dolopius ferrugineipennis, elongatus, niger, cinereo-pubescens, 

 capite thoraceque dense punctatis, hoc latitudine longiore, a medio an- 

 trorsum angustato, lateribus late rotundatis, angulis posticis elongatis di- 

 vergentibus fortiter carinatis, elytris rufo-testaceis, striis punctatis, intersti- 

 tiis subconvexis dense punctatis, antennis (?) pedibusque flavo-testaceis. 

 Long. -42. 



Oregon. A specimen with only the basal joint of the antennae remaining. 

 Easily distinguished from our other species by the form of the thorax. 



50. Asaph es tumescens, nigro-pieeus, fusco-pnbeseens, capite thorace- 

 que fortius sat dense punctatis, hoc (feminse) convexo, latitudine paulo longi- 

 ore postice canaliculato, lateribus rotundatis magis ad apicem, versus basim 

 paulo angustato, angulis posticis acutis parallelis fortiter carinatis, elytris 

 striis punctatis, interstitiis paulo convexis punctulatis, antennarum articulo 

 3io 2ndo duplo longiore et 4to paulo angnstiore. Long. -49 — -53. 



Santa Cruz Island, California. Mr. Bache. Closely allied to the dark varie- 

 ties of A. d e c o 1 o r at u s, but the head and thorax are much more strongly 

 punctured. The second joint of the antenna is shorter, being only half as 

 long as the third, and the striss of the elytra are more strongly punctured. 



51. Asaphes oregonus, niger, pube longiore fulva suberecta vestitus, 

 capite fortiter thorace sat dense subtilius punctato, hoc angulis posticis cari- 

 natis paulo divergentibus, elytris tiavo-testaceis, striis subtilius punctatis, in- 

 terstitiis planis rugosis et punctulatis ; antennarum articulo 3io 2ndo sesqui 

 longiore, pedibus fusco-piceis, tibiis partim, tarsisque fuscis. Long. "32 — •40. 



Mas thorace latitudine longiore, antrorsum sensim angustato, lateribus late 

 rotundatis. 



Femina thorace latitudine fere breviore, convexiore apice magis angustato, 

 lateribus magis rotundatis. 



Oregon. 



Sericosomus fl a vipe nn i s. A specimen from Mr. Murray agrees with 

 the description of Dolerosomus flavipennis Motsch. (Bull. Mosc. I860,) 

 except that the apical margin of the thorax is not testaceous. The color is 

 variable in our common S. si lace us, so that I am not inclined to consider my 

 specimen as a distinct species from that described by Mr. Motschulsky. It is 

 closely allied toS. silaceus, but differs by the antennae being nearly black, 

 and by the thorax being less deeply punctured, with the hind angles less di- 

 verging, (but is perhaps merely a variety of S. debi li s Lee, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sc, 1S59, 72 ;) the latter is of a pale testaceous color, with only the head ob- 

 scure. These variations in color are all seen in S. s i 1 a c e u s. 



52. Corymbites colossus, niger, capite thoraceque subnitidis, fortiter 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



punctatis, fronte late concava, thorace ( 9 ) convexo vix obsolete canaliculate, 

 latitudine baud breviore, apice angustiore, lateribus modice, magis ad apicem 

 rotundatis, angulis posticis paulo divergentibus fortiter carinatis, liuea Isevi 

 dorsali obsoleta postice uotato, elytris fere opacis, dense punctatis et lugolosis, 

 punctis vix majoribus striatim digestis, antenuis thorace brevioribus, valde 

 serratis, articulo 3io 2udo sesqui longiore, baud dilatato. Long. 1-07. 



California. Mr. S. S. Ratlivon. The joints of the antennje 4-10 are very 

 strongly triangular, gradually smaller ; the eleventh joint is also triangular, 

 with the oblong appendage still more distinct than usual. 



53. Corymbites conjungens Lee. A specimen of this species was sent 

 by Mr. Murray, in which the entire prothorax is of a brownisli red color. 

 Were it not for the sliglitly pubescent surface, I should consider this species 

 as Diacantlius di versicolor Esch., a species which has not been identi- 

 fied in recent times, but which may be more nearly allied to C. ro t u nd i - 

 c o 1 li s. 



54. Corymbites anthrax, elongatus, niger, nitidus, pube brevissima cine- 

 rea parce obsitus, capite fortiter dense punctato, fronte fere plana, thorace late- 

 ribus confluenter medio parcius fortiter punctato, oblougo, latitudine vix sesqui 

 longiore, lateribus subrectis, angulis posticis acutis divergentibus carinatis, 

 elytris striis punctatis, iuterstitiis subplauis disperse punctatis, antenuis mo- 

 dice serratis articulo 3io 4to paulo longiore. Long. "TS. 



Bodega, California ; one female. Mr. G. Davidson. Almost as slender in 

 form as C. p y r r h o s. 



55. Aplastus optatus, fascus, pube cinerea vestitus, thorace latitudine 

 baud longiore, antrorsum sensim angustato, lateribus rectis, angulis posticis 

 elongatis carinatis valde divaricatis, punctato, canaliculato, elytris substriatis, 

 iuterstitiis subp'.anis rugose punctatis. Long. -52 — -70. 



Mas oculis prominulis valde convexis, antenuis articulis 3-10 apice externo 

 paulo productis. 



Femina oculis minus convexis, antennis articulis triangularibus. 



California, Mr. A. Murray. Bodega, Mr. Davidson. Differs from A. spe- 

 ratus Lee. (Proc. Acad. 1859, 73), by the less elongated thorax and more 

 distinctly carinated posterior angles. 



56. Sandalus c alif orn ic us , niger parce pubescens, thorace latitudine 

 sunima duplo breviore, a basi antrorsum fortiter angustato, lateribus rectis, 

 subcanaliculato, apice et basi vage impresso, parce punctato, dense punctu- 

 lato, elytris tiavo-testaceis nitidis fortiter punctatis. Long. "GO. 



California, Mr. Murray ; one male. Resembles in sculpture the male of S. 

 niger, but is more robust in form, the pubescence is much less dense, the 

 thorax is very transverse, and the antenuce are black. 



57. Macropogon p i c e u s , nigro-piceus, nitidus, fusco-pubescens, capite 

 fortiter punctato, thorace latitudine breviore, trapezoideo, antrorsum angus- 

 tato, basi bisinuato, lateribus rectis, angulis posticis acutis, sat dense punc- 

 tato, foveis duabus posticis obliquis densius punctatis notato, elytris subtili- 

 ter striato-punctatis, iuterstitiis rugosis et punctulatis, antennis elongatis, 

 articulis 2—4 conjunctis 5to longitudine requalibus. Long. '31. 



East of Fort Colville, Mr. Gibbs. This genus was placed by Motschulsky 

 (Bull. Mosc. 1860) among the Elateridse ; it in reality belongs to the Dascyl- 

 lidse, vide Classif. of Coleoptera of N. America, page 178. 



58. Calopteron megalopteron, nigrum, thorace minuto carinato, later- 

 ibus flavis late reflexis, latitudine vix breviore, angulis posticis acutis valde 

 divergentibus, elytris flavis corpore duplo longioribus, a basi sensim valde 

 dilatatis, lateribus extrorsum concavis, apice valde rotundatis, reticulatis, 

 costis solitis elevatis, fascia ad trientem anticam, trienteque postica cyaneo- 



1861.] 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



nigris, trochanteribus femorumquebasi flavis. Long, (elytr. inclus.) '47 — '62 ; 

 lat. el.ytr. max. -36— -50. 



Oregon. Differs from our other species by the much larger size of the ely- 

 tra, which are so much dilated behind that their greatest width is but little 

 less than their length, and the lateral outline is decidedly concave. The sides 

 of the thorax before the angles are nearly parallel ; the apex, as usual, is semi- 

 circular. 



59. Podabrus torquatus, niger (cinereo-pubescens ?), uitidus, capite 

 flavo, antice laevi pone antennis fortiter punctato, cervice nigro-piceo, thorace 

 flavo latitudine plus sesqui breviore, lateribus rotundatis late reflexis, angulis 

 anticis rotundatis, posticis dentiformibus prominulis, antice late transversim 

 concavo et parce punctulato, basi marginato, pone medium linea dorsali pro- 

 funda impresso, elytris subtilius rugose punctulatis, abdominis lateribus ano- 

 que pallidis, pedum antennarumque basi testacea ; his articulo 3io 2ndo duplo 

 longiore, at 4to breviore, palpis nigris basi flavis. Long. "38. 



Bitter Root Valley, Rocky Mountains. Lieut MuUan's Expedition ; collect- 

 ed by Mr. Pearsall. The pubescence has been all removed. The claws are 

 pale yellow, and cleft, with the under portion scarcely shorter than the upper. 



60. Podabrus mell i fl u u s , niger opacus cinereo-pubescens, capite ante 

 antennas flavo, parce punctato, postice fortiter punctato, thorace latitudine 

 duplo breviore, lateribus late rotundatis, angulis anticis rotundatis, posticis 

 obtusis baud prominulis, cnnfertim subtiliter punctato, lateribus late rufo- 

 testaceis ; elytris dense subtiliter rugose-punctatis. Long. *40. 



California, Mr. Murray. Quite distinct by the above characters from any 

 other species found within the United States. The third joint of the antennae 

 is longer than the second, but shorter than the fourth ; the first three joints 

 are testaceous beneath : the claws are cleft, the under part scarcely shorter 

 than the upper. 



61. Podabrus s c a b e r, elongatus, niger opacus cinereo-pubescens, capite ante 

 antennas, fere Isevi utrinque testaceo, postice dense punctato, collo valde 

 elongate, thorace latitudine hand breviore, lateribus postice rectis antice ro- 

 tundatis, angulis posticis rectis vix prominulis, confertim punctato, antice 

 transversim late concavo, postice linea dorsali impressa, lateribus late rufo- 

 testaceis, elytris dense granulato-rugosis. Long. -42. 



Oregon. The first joint of the antennae is yellow beneath, the third joint is 

 one-half longer than the second, and not shorter than the fourth; the claws 

 are acutely toothed about the middle. 



62. Podabrus corneus, valde elongatus, supra testaceus nitidus, capite 

 antice Ifevi, postice piceo sat fortiter punctato, thorace latitudine hand brevi- 

 ore, lateribus late rotundato, angulis posticis acutis, vix punctulato, antice, 

 ad latera, et disco late concavo, inde obtuse bicostato, elytris confertim rugose 

 punctulatis; subtus niger, trochanteribus, femorum apice, tibiisque anticis 

 testaceis ; tarsis antennisque fuscis, his basi testaceis. Long. '38. 



California, Mr. S. S. Rathvon. Bears a striking resemblance in appearance 

 to Telephorus 1 arv alls Lee. The third joint of the antennae is intermediate 

 in size between the second and fourth ; the claws are cleft, with the inferior 

 portion but little shorter than the superior. 



63. Podabnis m a c e r , valde elongatus, niger opacus cinereo-pubescens, 

 capite confertim punctulato, thorace latitudine longiore, lateribus fere rectis 

 parallelis pallide testaceis, angulis anticis rotundatis, posticis obtusis, punctato, 

 antice posticeque late transversim concavo, disco pone medium costis duabus 

 magnis obtusis elevatis, elytris dense rugose punctulatis, antennarum articulo 

 3io 2ndo duplo longiore, at sequente paulo breviore. Long. •31. 



San Mateo, California, Mr. A. Agassiz. The antennae are not much shorter 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



than the body, the legs are long, and the claws are furnished with a large 

 square tooth at base, extending beyond their middle. 



64. Malthodes transversus, uigro-piceus, cinereo-pubescens, thorace 

 flavo, latitudine fere duple breviore, undique marginato, lateribus fuscis rec- 

 tis parallelis, disco oblique biimpresso, elytris rugose punctatis, antennis pedi- 

 busque fuscis, illis articulo Imo testaceo, sequentibus aequalibus. Long. 'll. 



Santa Cruz Island, Mr. Bache. 



65. Thanasimus rubriventris, niger, pubescens, capita thoraceque sub- 

 tilitor punctatis, elytris dense punctulatis, striis externis ultra medium ex- 

 tensis, internis valde abbreviatis, sutura antice, fascia angulata antica altera- 

 que latiore prope apicem dense cinereo-pubescentibus, abdomine sanguineo. 

 Long. -30. 



East of Fort Colville, Mr. Gibbs. Resembles in form and sculpture C. n u - 

 b i 1 u s King, but differs by the legs being entirely black, and by the outer 

 rows of punctures of the elytra being longer : the elytra are also more parallel 

 and less convex. 



66. Thanasimus nigriventris, niger, pubescens, capite thoraceque sub- 

 tiliter punctatis, elytris pimctulatis, striis omnino obliteratis, sutura antice, 

 fascia transversa ad quadrantem, altera angusta angulata ad medium, macu- 

 laque magna apicali dense cinereo-pubescentibus. Long. '27 — "35. 



East of Fort Colville, and in Bitter Root Valley. Of the same shape as the 

 preceding, but dififers by the body being entirely black. The usual rows of 

 punctures on the elytra are completely wanting ; about one-fourth from the 

 base a broad band of cinereous pubescence extends from the suture nearly to 

 the margin ; the suture from the base to the band is also clothed with cinere- 

 ous hair ; behind this band, but about the mid lie, iustead of before the 

 middle, as in the other species, is the usual narrow, acutely angulated band ; 

 a large apical spot of gray hair occupies the hindmost fifth of the surface, and 

 extends along the suture higher than on the margin ; its anterior outline is 

 angulated, and is transversely truncate at the middle. 



In badly preserved specimens the apical spot sometimes appears to be a 

 subapical band, from the rubbing off of the hairs near the tip. 



67. Cupes s er r at a , fusco-testacea, piceo-marmorata, squamulis cinereis 

 nigrisque variegata, fronte concava, thorace transverso, lateribus parallelis, an- 

 gulis anticis acutis divaricatis, apice ad media'u late breviter producto, con- 

 fertim punctato, canaliculato, antice postiteque transversim impresso, elytris 

 cyliudricis, foveis seriatis quadratis cancellatis, lateribus versus apicem spi- 

 nulis acutis armatis serie duplici positis ; oculis parvis, antennis corpore du- 

 plo brevioribus, cinereo niproque annulatis. Long. "43 — '82. 



East of Fort Colville, at Sinyak water depot, and at Camp Kootenay. The 

 variation in size of this remarkable species is very great. Besides the spiculre 

 on the lateral margin, and on the extreme infli^xed margin of the elytra, a 

 few are visible on the seventh interstitial line near the tip. The blackish, 

 markings are scattered along the interstitial line and a broad band behind 

 the middle is also seen. 



It will probably be found on dissection that tlie characters separating our 

 three species of Cupes will warrant them in being considered as belonging to 

 distinct genera. The external characters are very marked ; thus in C. s er- 

 rata the head is not tuberculate behind, and is deeply concave between the 

 antennje, which are distant, only one-half as long as the body, and somewhat 

 serrate ; the eyes are small. The mentum appears larger and more prominent 

 than in the other two species. 



In C capitata the head has a very deeply impressed line between the 

 eyes, and is divided behind into four tubercles : the antennae are about two- 

 thirds the length of the body, stout, but not serrate ; the eyes are small. 



1861.] 




352 TROCEEDINGS OF THa ACADEMY OF 



InC. concolor Westwood, {cinrrea Say, trilineata Mels.) the head is not 

 luberculate behind, the antenuse are less distant, longer than the body, and 

 filiform, aud the eyes are very large. 



68. Philoxylon alutaceum, elongatum fusco-testaceum, pube helva 

 sericea brevi dense vestitum, elytris alutaceis, vix distincte punctalatis. 

 Long. -20. 



California ; Mr. A. Murray. Differs from P. convexifrons Lee. (^Ano- 

 bium conv. Mels.) by the more elongate form, and by the elytra not being dis- 

 tinctly punctulate ; in P. p u n c t u I a t u m Lee. {Anobium punct. Lee. ), they 

 are more strongly and less densely punctulate than in P. convexifrons. 



The genus Philoxylon was established by me (Class. Col. N. Am. 205), on 

 the two species just named, which differ in many respects from Anobium. It 

 will be recognized by the prothorax not being excavated beneath for the re- 

 ception of the head ; the presternum before the coxae is very short, but dis- 

 tinct ; the anterior coxfe are contiguous, as are also the middle ones; the 

 tarsi aie moderatidy long, the fifth joint is not flattened, and is as long as the 

 two preceding united ; the claws are slender. The antennae are long, the 

 joints 3 — 7 are nearly equal, and the 8 — 11 are together somewhat longer than 

 all the others united. 



(?9. Eleodes o btu s a , elongata, nigra, capite thoraceque confertim punc- 

 tatis, hoc ovato, latitudine paulo breviore, lateribus rotundatis, postice obli- 

 quis, angulis posticis obtusis, spatio parvo Ijevi utrinque ad medium notato, 

 elytris postice oblique attenuatis valde declivibus, basi truncatis humeris ob- 

 tusis, granulis punetisque intermixtis vix seriutim positis ; femoribus anticis 

 subtus obtuse angulatis. Long. "GO. 



California ; Mr. Murray ; one male. Quite distinct by its characters from 

 all others known to me. The prosternum is slightly prominent behind. The 

 elytra are punctured towards the suture, but behind and at the sides the 

 punctures are replaced by oval elevations of moderate size, which are arranged 

 in rows, though not very distincth'. The epipleural margin is not visible 

 from above, and the humeral angles are not produced. 



70. Eleodes i nc u It a, nigra, subopaca, capite thoraceque sat dense punc- 

 tatis, hoc latitudine paulo breviore, lateribus valde rotundatis postice subito 

 breviter sinuatis, angulis posticis obtusis prominulis, basi late rotundato, ely- 

 tris ovalibus thorace sesqui latioribus, apice attenuatis valde declivibus, hume- 

 ris late rotundatis, dorso deplanatis punctis granulisque parvis inordinatis 

 insculptis, granulis versus latera breviter piliferis ; femoribus anticis muticis, 

 autennis apiee parum incrassatis. Long. •57. 



Island of Santa Barbara, Mr. C. M. Bache. More nearly related to E. p ro- 

 d u c t a than to any other known to me ; the thorax is, however, less broad, 

 and less rounded on the sides, the humeri are broadly rounded and the epi- 

 pleural margin is not at all visible from above ; the elytra are also more granu- 

 lated and less punctured, and the antennae are more slender. 



71. Eleodes hirsuta, nigra pilis elongatis nigris ei-ectis villosa, capite 

 thoraceque opacis, confertim (hoc fortius) punctatis, thorace latitudine vix 

 breviore, lateribus rotundatis angulis posticis obtusis, elytris ovalibus, sub- 

 nitidis, confertim inoriiinatim punctatis, versus latera et apicem submuricatis, 

 femoribus anticis muticis, antennis extrorsum paulo incrassatis. Long. "37 — 

 •42. 



Mas elytris thorace paulo latioribus, latitudine fere duplo longioribus. Fe- 

 mina elytris tliorace plus sesqui latioribus. 



Great Salt Lake Desert. The prosternum is slightly prominent behind. 

 From the long hairs with which this species is covered it presents very much 

 the appearance of Amphidora nigropilosa Lee; the anterior tarsi are, 

 however, not at all dilated, and otherwise it presents the characters of Eleodes. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 353 



72. Helops B a c h e i, elongatus, nigro-piceus, seuescens, capite thoraceque 

 dense fortiter aciculatim punctatis, hoc parum conv^exo, latitudine paulo bie- 

 viore, rotundato, ante basin vage arouatim impresso, elytris striato-puuctatis, 

 interstitiis planis disperse subtiliter punctatis postice tiiberculis miuutis 

 punctigeris uni-eriatim ornatis, metasterno brevi. Lonj?. *34 — "50. 



Island of Santa Barbara, Mr. C. M. Bache. Very distinct from all the other 

 species known to me ; the small tubercles of the elytral intervals in large 

 specimens may be seen almost to the base, in small ones, however, they are 

 sometimes almost entirely wanting, and may be traced only very near the tip. 

 Each little elevation is marked with a point somewhat larger than the scat- 

 tered punctures of the intervals. The antennae are slender, very slightly 

 thickened externally. The under surface of the prothorax is densely acicu- 

 late ; the metasternum is strongly, the abdomen more finely punctured. The 

 male has three joints of the anterior tarsi moderately, and of the middle tarsi 

 very slightly dilated. 



73. Helops pernitens, nigro-seneus nitidissimus, subtus nigrio-piceus, 

 capite confertim puuctato, thorace latitudine plus sesqui breviore, antice pos- 

 ticeque truncato, lateribus rotundatis, margine fortius depresso et reflexo 

 postice baud latiore, disperse punctato, elytris oblongo-ovalibus convexis, 

 fortiter marginatis, striis profundis subpunctatis, interstitiis planis vix punc- 

 tulatis, metasterno brevi. Long. "40. 



Oregon. Related to H. laetus Lee, bat difiers by the thorax being less 

 densely punctured, aud by the posterior angles being much more obtuse ; the 

 sides curve equally before and behind the middle, and the depressed margin 

 is not wider at the base. The sides of the prothorax are finely and densely 

 striate beneath ; the metasternum is strongly punctured ; the abdomen is 

 more finely punctured, and is rugous at the sides. Three joints of the ante- 

 rior tarsi are moderately, of the middle tarsi very slightly dilated in the male. 



74. Helops convexulus, nigro-piceus, aenescens, capite confertim, tho- 

 race sat dense punctato, hoc couvexo latitudine paulo breviore, antice posti- 

 ceque truncato, lateribus rotundatis, angulis obtusis rotundatis, elytris ovali- 

 bus, convexis, striis subtilibus punctatis, interstitiis planis, pedibusrufo-piceis. 

 Long. -24. 



Bitter Root Valley, Rocky Mountains. Lieut. Mullan's Expedition. The 

 sides of the presternum beneath are densely striate ; the rest of the under 

 surface is punctured, and the sides of the abdomen are besides finely rugous. 



75. Cibdelis B a c h e i, niger opacus, thorace latitudine vix breviore, antice 

 magis angustato, lateribus rotundatis postice subsinuatis, angulis posticis 

 rectis, parum oonvexo, tuberculis parvis scabro, elytris lateribus rotundatis, 

 thorace sesqui latioribus, striis subtilibus punctatis, interstitiis tuberculis 

 parvis dispersis. Long. '65. 



Island of Santa Barbara, California; Mr. C. M. Bache, to whom I take great 

 pleasure in dedicating this fine species, as a slight acknowledgment for the 

 labor bestowed in making collections on the islands near the coast of Cali- 

 fornia. 



Larger and broader than C. Blaschkii, and totally distinct in its sculp- 

 ture. The epistoma is broadly emarginate and nearly conceals the labrum, 

 while in C. Blaschkii it is truncate, and the labrum is more prominent ; 

 the mentum is broader in front, and feebly emarginate, and the hind feet are 

 more widely separated. I am not disposed to regard these differences as ge- 

 neric. 



76. Uloma 1 o n g u 1 a, piceo-rufa, elongata, nitida, capite confertim subtili- 

 ter punctato, fronte late et profunde transversim impressa, thorace latitudine 

 breviore, antice paulo angustato, lateribus anguste marginatis, sat dense 

 medio subtilius punctato, elytris striis baud profunde punctatis, interstitiis 

 planis obsolete punctulatis. Long. 'ST. 



1861.] 




354 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



California, Mr. Murray. Of the same form asTJ. ferruglnea Say, but 

 much, larger, with the striae of the elytra much less strongly punctured, and 

 the intervals only very obsoletely punctulate. 



75. Meloe o p a c a, elougata, nigra, opaca, capite medio parce lateribus et pos- 

 tice sat dense punctato, linea longitudinali obsolete impressa, fronte utrinque 

 transversim impressa, thorace latitudine breviore ovato, basi emarginato, sat 

 dense punctato, obsolete canalitulato, dorso vage bifoveato, elytris dense sat 

 fortiter intricato-rugosis, abdomine si^btiliter rugoso. Long. 'TS. 



One specimen, Mendocino City, Mr. A. Agassiz. 



78. Meloe b a r b a r a, seneo-nigra, subnitida, capite disperse punctato, tho- 

 race oblongo, ad apicem rotundatim angustato, basi emarginato, dorso plani- 

 usculo, disperse punctato, obsolete canalioulato, antice vage bifoveato, ad basin 

 impresso, elytris valde convexis, parce rude baud profunde rugosis, abdomine 

 alutaceo-rugoso, antennis ( $ ) medio parum incrassatis. Long. "60. 



Island of Santa Barbara, Mr. C. M. Bache. 



79. Lytta dolosa, minus elongata, metallescens opaca (nigro-cyanea, 

 olivacea, vel pistacea cupreo-tincta), capite parce punctato, postice canalicu- 

 lato, gutta frontali flava, basi truucato angulis posticis rotundatis, thorace 

 ovali, latitudine subbreviore, punctis parcis adspersis, subtiliter canaliculato, 

 dorso obsoleti! bifoveato, elytris thorace fere duplo latioribus dense rugosis et 

 punctulatis, antennis elongatis nigris, extrorsum moniliatis paulo incrassatis, 

 tibiis posticis calcari interno tenui acuto, externo dilatato, obtuso. Long. 

 •42— -58. 



California, Mr. Murray ; Mendocino City, Mr. A. Agassiz. Very variable in 

 color, sometimes of a greenish bronze, sometimes almost black, with a bluish 

 brassy tinge. The smaller specimens resemble in appearance L. smarag- 

 d u 1 a L(c., but are at once distinguished by the outer spur of the hind tibiae 

 being much broader and more obtuse. 



80. Tragosoma H a r r i s i i Lee. A specimen of this species was found by 

 Mr. Gibbs, east of Fort Colville. It probably extends its range across the con- 

 tinent in more northern latitudes. 



81. Pogonocherus oregonus, niger, setis nigris elongatis erectis adsper- 

 sus, thorace vix calloso, spina laterali brevi obtusa, elytris parallelis punctis 

 magnis parcis, antice confusis postice seriebus panels ordinatis, fascia lata an- 

 tica trienteque postico cinereo-pubescentibus, penicellis parvis brevibus tri- 

 seriatis ornatis ; antennis cinereo-annulatis. Long. "28. 



East of Fort Colville, Mr. Gibbs. The long hairs with which this species ia 

 clothed, and the three rows of bunches of black pubescence seen on the elytra, 

 cause it to resemble in appearance P. penicellatus Lee, but the thorax 

 has no very distinct elevations, and the lateral lines are less prominent. The 

 elytra are not gradually narrowed behind, have no costse, and the bunches of 

 black hair are very short. The anterior band occupies one-third of the surface, 

 except a basal broad triangular space ; the punctures not being covered with 

 hair appear black.* 



* It may here be proper tp stale that Aniphionycha subarmata Lee. (Col. Kansas, 

 22) from Niagara, on examination of perfect specimens, is found to have the ungues 

 simple, and in fact to belong to the genus Eupogoiiius Lee. The resemblance in appear- 

 ance to Amphionycha is most remarkable, though I have since observed that the genera 

 allied t> r>'aperda have the eyes finely granulated, while in Liopus, Eupogonius, Pogono- 

 cherus and all .illied forms the lenses are much larger, thus causing the eyes to appear 

 more coarsely granulate. A similar dift'erence in structure obtains among the genuine 

 Cerambycidae, and by regarding ii, many groups may be circumscribed with great pre- 

 cision. I hope shortly to make known some modifications in the natural arrangement 

 of these tribes suggested by ihis discovery. 



[Nor. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 355 



82. Leptura cribripennis Zee. Two specimens collected by Dr. W. A. 

 Hammond in the Black Hills, have precisely the form and sculpture of this 

 species, but the elytra are black, with the base red; another from Oregon has 

 the elytra entirely black. Finding no differences but those of color, I not 

 only believe these to be merely varieties, but also suppose that L. can a- 

 d e n s i s Fair, and L. erythroptera Kirby (nee Germ.) are corresponding 

 varieties of another species ; the entirely black variety of our Eastern species 

 is as yet unknown. 



S3. Leptura c u b i t a 11 s, elongata, nigra, parce subtiliter cinereo-pubescens, 

 capite thoraceque confertim punctatis, hoc couvexo, subcanaliculato, lateribus 

 valde rotundato, antice angustato, fortiter constricto, basi modice constricto, 

 linea dorsali Itevi uitida, elytris parallelis apice subtruncatis, sat dense postice 

 subtilius punctatis, antennis tenuibus piceis, basi rufis, pedibus anticis rufis, 

 fsmoribus apice, tibiis apice externo, tarsisque nigris. Long. '35. 



San Mateo, California, A. Agassiz. Belongs to the same division as L. 

 .sphsericollis Sai/, L. vibex Newman {nitidicollis Horn, Pr. Ac. 18GU, 

 570) and L. au r ata Horn.* 



84. Leptura f as ci vent r is, nigra, fulvo-pubescens, capite thoraceque 

 confertissime punctatis, opacis, hoc convexo subcanaliculato campanulato, 

 apice valde, postice modice constricto, lateribus sinuatis, elytris flavis (9) 

 subparallelis, thorace fere duplo latioribus apice subtruncatis, dorso antice 

 subdepressis, modice postice subtilius punctatis, flavis fasciis dnabus trien- 

 teque postico nigris, maculaque rotuudata utrinque ante apicem flava ornatis ; 

 abdomine flavo, plus minusve nigro-fasciato, pedibus rufo-flavis, femoribus 

 crassiusculis ; antennis nigro-fuscis, plus minusve testaceo-annulatis, veltesta- 

 ceis, nigro-annulatis, basi nigris. Long. "40 — '47. 



California, Mr. A. Murray ; found also in Oregon. Belongs to the same 

 group as L. c r a s s i p e s Lee, xanthogaster Zee, tibialis Lee. and 

 r u f u 1 a. The first band is oblique towards the suture, and is about \ from 

 the base ; the second is transverse, situated about the middle ; it is broad ex- 

 ternally, but scarcely reaches the suture ; the outer margin is black from the 

 2d band, and the suture from the first band. The abdomen is yellow, the base 

 of each segment, especially at the sides, is black, but in one specimen this is 

 observed only on the first and second segments. 



85. Leptura dolorosa, robusta, nigra opaca, subtiliter cinereo-piibesceus, 

 capite confertim punctato canaliculate, thorace antrorsum sensim angastato, 

 lateribus late rotundatis, basi incurvis, apice valde constricto, basi profunde 

 trausversim impresso etdejjresso, disco parum convexo, profunde canaliculate, 

 parce basi dense punctato, elytris planiusculis, apice oblique intus truncatis, 

 subparallelis, sat dense postice subtilius punctatis. Long. -SS. 



East of Fort Colville, Mr. Gibbs. Related more nearly to L. b i f o r i s than 

 to any otiier known to me, though, from its black color, very different in 

 appearance The disc of the thorax is broadly flattened each side behind the 

 middle. 



86. Leptura (Stenura) c a r b o n a t a, elongata, nigra subnitida, subtiliter 

 uigro-pubescens, capite canaliculate, sat dense fortiter punctato, thorace 

 parum convexo, antrorsum sensim angustato, apice constricto, basi fortiter 

 impresso et depresso, linea dorsali angusta Isevi, dorso parce, lateribus sat 



* To the same division belongs ihe following species from Lake Superior: 

 L. pe tl a I i s, elongata, nigra, parce fusco-pubescens, capite thoraceque dense punctatis, 

 hoc convexo, subcanaliculato, lateribus rotundatis, antice angustato apice valde constricto, 

 basi modice constricto, linea dorsali tenui laevi. elytris parallelis, apice subtruncatis, sat 

 dense postice minus fortiter punctatis, antennis nigro-piceis, articulis 3 — 11 basi testaceis, 

 pedibus ruto-testaceis. Long. •40. 

 In one specimen the middle thighs are darker. 



18(31.] 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



dense fortiter punctate, ntrinque vage deplanato, angulis posticis lamiuatis, 

 elytris parallelis apice subtruncatis, modice, postice subtiliter punctatis. 

 Long. 'I'd. 



Washington Territory. Allied to L. n i g r e 1 1 a Say, but the head and 

 thorax are not confluently punctured, the elytra are parallel, and are only 

 slightly truncate at tip, and not emargiuate as in L. n i g r e 1 1 a. 



87. Toxotus flavolineatus Lee. A variety of this species in which 

 the elytra are entirely black, is found in Oregon. 



88. Argaleus 11 1 u r a t u s ; Pachyta Uturata Kirby. Specimens collected in 

 various parts of Washington Territory prove that A. n i t e n s Lee. is merely a 

 variety of this species ; the elytra vary from being entirely pale to entirely 

 black. 



89. Acm^ops V i n c t a, elongata, nigra, subtiliter fusco-pubescens, capite 

 thoraceque dense punctatis, hoc latitudine haaid breviore, convexo, canalicit- 

 lato, antice et postice profunde constricto, lateribus obtuse angulatis, elytris 

 fortiter postice subtilius punctato, a basi perparum angustatis, apice sub- 

 truncatis, vittis duabus flavis ntrinque ornatis saepe obsoletis. femoribus an- 

 terioribus rufis apice nigris, posticis nigris basi rufis. Long. '47 — '53. 



Bitter Root Valley, Lieut. MuUan's ICxpedition ; also found in Oregon. Nar- 

 rower than A. dorsalis Lee, (Col. Kansas, 21,) with the impressions of 

 the thorax much stronger, and the sides more distinctly angulated. 



90. Acrajeops g i b b u 1 a, nigra, fusco-pubescens, capite sat dense, thorace 

 parcius punctato, hoc campanulato, apice fortiter constricto, postice trans- 

 versim impresso, dorso late depresso utrinque subgibboso, linea dorsali Isevi, 

 angulis posticis rotundatis prominulis, elytris fortiter postice subtiliter punc- 

 tatis, (,-^) a basi angustatis, ajjice truncatis, nigro-fuscis, vel obscure rufis, 

 sutura vittaque submarginali obscuris. Long. '35. 



Washington Territory, Mr. Gibbs. Allied to A. p r o t e u s, but the eleva- 

 tions of the thoi-ax are much less prominent, and the flattening of the disc is 

 less decided. Specimens will undoubtedly occur having the elytra pale without 

 any dark vittse. When the elytra are not entirely dark colored, the base of 

 the thighs is testaceous. 



91. Stenopterus fuscipennis, niger, subtiliter pubescens, thorace lati- 

 tudine longiore, antice angustato, lateribus late rotundatis, apice et basi im- 

 presso, fortiter punctato, linea dorsali brevi elevata callisque duabus elongatis 

 laevibus, elytris abdomine parum brevioribus longe subulatis, dorso planis, 

 fusco-testaceis, baud dense punctatis, punctis hie inde seriatis, tibiis anteri- 

 oribus basi testaceis, pedibus posticis flavis, femorum clava tibiarum apice 

 tarsisque nigris. Long. '40. 



San Mateo, California, Mr. A. Agassiz. The hind tibiae are slightly bent. 

 and are roughened with small elevations. 



92. Arhopalus 1 u t o s u s, niger, pube brevi virescenti-ochrea undique 

 dense tectus, thorace rotundato, latitudine hand breviore, elytris apice ob- 

 lique truncatis angulo externo subacuto, antennis pedibusque rufis. Long. *46. 



Kansas, near the Rocky Mountains. 



93. Crossidius a t e r, ater opacus, griseo-pubescens, thorace latitudine bre- 

 viore convexo rotundato, rude et dense punctato, pilis longis pallidis villoso, 

 elytris confertim antice fortius punctatis. Long. •62. 



Utah, Mr. E. T. Cresson. Resembles in form C. testaceus and C. h w 

 m e r a 11 s Zee, but quite different by its color. 



94. Crossidius pulchellus, longior, niger, pallide pubescens, thorace 

 latitudine paulo breviore, rotundato, rude punctato, lateribus postice paulo 

 concavis, pilis longis villoso, elytris fortiter ad apicem subtilius punctatis, 

 pallidis, margine basali ad humeros latiore, plagaque communi maxima pos- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



tica oblonga nigris, abdomine rufo, segmentis duobus primis fuscis apice rufis. 

 Long. -37. 



Bitter Root Valley, Mr. Ulke. The large spot of the elytra extends two- 

 thirds the length ; its anterior outline is angulated at the suture, and slightly 

 concave each side ; the lateral outline is straight, and reaches the apex, 

 which is abruptly rounded ; the suture is retracted and presents a small tooth. 



95. Clytus m o r m o n u s, niger, parce cinereo-pubescens, capite scabro, 

 carinis duabus frontalibus notato, thorace ovali latitudine longiore, convexo, 

 scabro, elytris subtilius punc-tatis et rugosis, apice singiilatim rotundatis, 

 guttis pluribus parvis cinereo-pubescentibus in fascia ad medium alteraque ad 

 dodrantem digestis ; femoribus posticis abdomine paulobrevioribus. Long. -60. 



Utah, Mr. E. T. Cresson. The specimen before me has lost nearly all the 

 pubescence, but the species can be readily recognized by the characters above 

 given. The thorax is regularly oval, equally narrowed at base and apex, 

 densely rugosely punctured, without any elevations. 



96. Callidium (Phymatodes) Agassii, robustum, atrum opacum, thorace 

 rude punctato, transverse, lateribus valde rotundatis, elytris basi truncatis, 

 thorace latioribus, ante medium rude, pone medium parce sat fortiter punc- 

 tatis. Long. "67. 



San Mateo, California, A. Agassiz. The elytra behind the middle are still 

 more destitute of lustre than the rest of the surface. The anterior coxse are 

 separated by the very narrow prosternum. The antennre are stout, scarcely 

 more than half the length of the body. 



97. Donacia californica, supra virescente-aenea nitida, thorace quad- 

 rato, latitudine paulo breviore, lateribus rectis postice paulo convergentibus, 

 angulis omnibus prominulis, tuberculo antico male defiuito, postice transverse 

 fortiter, antice modice transversim impresso, dorso parum convexo, obsolete 

 punctulato et rugoso, canaliculato, ante medium transversim impresso, elytris 

 thorace duplo latioribus, planiusculis, apice subtruncatis, puuctis inauratis 

 confertis striatis, interstitiis subtiliter rugosis, subtus plumbea. Long. -45. 



California, Mr. Mur^a3^ Resembles in form and characters D. proxima 

 Kirby, but differs by the color and by the thoracic tubercles being less promi- 

 nent. The upper surface is also not so smooth and shining. 



98. Coseinoptera vittigera, oblonga, subcylindrica, jeneo nigra, cinereo- 

 pubescens, thorace latitudine vix breviore, antroi sum sensim angustato, sub- 

 tilius punctato, vitta dorsali Isevi, elytris confertim punctatis, vitta lata rufa a 

 basi ad apicem extensa ornatis, humeris obscuris. Long. "23. 



Bitter Root Vail y, Mr. Pearsall. 



99. Pachybrachys anal is, oblongus, convexus niger, subopacus, cinereo- 

 pubescens, capite thoraceqiie confertim subtiliter punctatis, hoc vitta dorsali 

 laevi, margine laterali testaceo, elytris punctatis siabrugosis, hie inde substri- 

 atis, lateribus ante medium, apiceque testaceis ; pygidio flavo-bimaculato, 

 abdomine apice testaceo, pedibus nigro-flavoque variegatis. Long. "20. 



California, Mr. A. Murray. 



100. Pachybrachys v i d u a t u s Saffr. ; ( Crypto, bivittatus Say). A singular 

 variety of this species from California was sent me by Mr. Murray. The middle 

 and posterior spots are united with the vitta, so that the elytra are pale, with 

 the suture and narrow lateral and apical margin, a small humeral spot, and a 

 very broad stripe extending nearly to the tip black. 



101. Chrysomela (Phsedon) oviformis, oralis convexa, supra ;enea; cu- 

 preo-micans, thorace lateribus distincte, medio fere obsolete punctato, elytris 

 punctis mediocribus striatim digestis, interstitiis parce obsolete punctulatis. 

 Long. -IS. 



East of Fort Colville, Mr. Gibbs. Less rounded and more convex than our 

 1S61] 




358 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



common C. viridis, with the punctures in the rows of the elytra rather 

 larger, and the interstices leas finely rugous. The under surface is metallio 

 black, the legs black, with the outer half of the tibia? and tarsi obscure testa- 

 ceous in one specimen ; in another they are entirely black. 



102. Chrysomela (Phsedon) prasinella, supra obscure viridi-renea, ovalis 

 modice convexa, thorace sequaliter modice punctato, elytris punctulatis, punc- 

 tis vix majoribus striatim digestis. Long. -IS. 



Oregon, Mr. Murray. Less convex than the preceding, and less rounded 

 than C. viridis; diifers from both by the middle of the thorax being scarcely 

 less punctured than the sides, and the intervals between the rows of punc- 

 tures of the elytra being covered with scattered punctures scarcely smaller 

 than those of tlie rows. 



103. Haltica r e'c t i c o 1 1 i 3, elongata, supra jeneo-fusca, pube flava sub- 

 hispida, thorace latitudine paulo longiore, lateribus serrulatis late rotundatis, 



' angulis posticis rectis, anticis prominuHs, modice convexo, grosse punctato, 

 sulco basali transverse profundo, elytris oblongis, thorace baud latioribus 

 striis autice fortiter postice subtiliter punctatis, interstitiis punctulatis ; subtus 

 nigra, antennis pedibusque rufis. Long. "I'i. 



California, Mr. Murray. The western representative of our H. f o r ti c o r- 

 n i s III. (? copal ilia Fabr.), though very diflerent from that species. 



104. Haltica (Crepidodera) s em in u 1 u m, breviter ovata, convexa, nigro- 

 senea, cinereo-pubescens, capite convexo fere Ifevi, thorace transv«rso, convexo, 

 antrorsum angustnto, basi medio producto, fortiter parce punctato, suleo 

 basali transverso profundo, elytris ante medium doi'so impressis, striis e punctis 

 majusculis compositis, interstitiis fere Irevibus ; subtus nigra, antennis pedi- 

 busque fluvo-testaceis, femoribus nigro-piceis. Long. '09. 



California, Mr. Murray. 



105. Haltica (Crepidodera) m a n c ula, ovata, convexa, nigro-seuea, glabra, 

 capite parce grosse punctato, thorace transverso, convexo, antrorsum angus- 

 tato, angulis anticis rotundatis paulo prominulis, parce punctato, sulco trans- 

 verso postice fere obliterata, striola brevi profunda utrinque notato, elytris 

 striato-punctatis, punctis antice majoribus, apice obscure testaceis, subtus 

 nigra, antennarum basi, tibiis anticis apice, tarsisque piceis. Long. "10. 



East of Fort Colville, Mr. Gibbs. Remarkable for the usual transverse 

 furrow of the thorax being almost entirely wanting. 



106. Galleruca car bo, atra opaca, breviter cinereo-pubescens, thorace 

 transverso, antrorsum angustato, "lateribus rotundatis, angulis anticis paulo 

 prominulis, punctato, subcanaliculato, dorso vage biimpresso, elytris parce 

 punctatis, sulco marginali lato baud profundo. Long. '20 — •22. 



East of Fort Colville, Mr. Gibbs. Resembles G. Sagittarias, but is 

 entirely black, and tlie thorax is more rounded on the sides. 



107. Triplax a n t i c a, elongata ovalis, nigra nitida, caj^ite thoraceque 

 baud dense punctatis, hoc transverso antrorsum paulo angustato, lateribus 

 parum rotundatis, elytris subtilius striato-punctatis, interstitiis vix obsolete 

 punctulatis, basi anguste indeterminate rufis, antennis i>alpis pedibusque 

 rufis, illis clava nigra. Long. -IS. 



Sinyak water depot, Mr. Gibbs. Totally distinct from any other of our 

 elongate species, which constitute the genuine group of the genus. 



108. Hippodamia spuria, ovalis, longiuscula, thorace nigro, limbo omni 

 angusto lineisque duabus discoidalibus albis, elytris pallide fulvis, macula 

 communi scutellari elongata, altera humerali, tribusque utrinque pone me- 

 dium 2, 1, positis nigris, ssepe deficienlibus, bis nonnunqiiam varie conflu- 

 entibus, angulo suturali rotundata, subtus nig? a epimeris mediis et posticis 

 pallidis. Long. -20. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCCENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Oregon, Mr. A. Agassiz. This species has the size and form of our common 

 H. parenthesis, but the thor ix of H. c o n v e r g e n s. The elytra are 

 more elongate oval in form than in either, and more obtusely rounded at tip ; 

 the apical angle is also not at all acute, but on the contrary quite rounded. 



Tiie spots of the elytra vary greatly ; the scutellar elongate spot is some- 

 times prolonged on the sutural margin for two-thirds the length ; the first and 

 second, or the second and third of the posterior spots are connected sometimes 

 as in varieties of H. parenthesis, and specimens will undoubtedly be 

 found in which all three are united to form an arcuated spot. It is also probable 

 that H. s i n u a t a J/t</s. (Cocc. 1011) is an extreme form of this species, having 

 all the spots united into a sinuous vitta ; sometimes the spots are entirely 

 wanting. The pectoral and abdominal curved lines are obsolete, and it conse- 

 quently belongs in the same group with H. convergeus. 



Description of a new Mexican Bat. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



In 1842, Prof. Gray described, in the Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist., a new 

 genus of bats, which he called Ceaturio, and gave the diagnosis of a new 

 species, — C. senez. Both of these were afterwards introduced, with a plate and 

 extended description, in the Zoology of the Voyage of the Sulphur, p. 27. This 

 ■was the first notice given of a well marked group of Cheiroptera inhabiting the 

 tropical regions of America.* Since that time, Lichenstein and Petersf have 

 published an account of a new species — C. flavogiolaris — coming from Cuba; 

 and M. de SaussureJ has added a third, under the name of C. mexicanus. 



A short time since, the author obtained from the collectioa of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution two bats, sent by Dr. Sartorius from Mirador, Mexico. One 

 of these was determined, from the descriptions furnished by M. de Saussure, to 

 be the C. mexicanus of that author. The other was an animal resembling the 

 members of the genus in question in many particulars, but difi^ering so mark- 

 edly in others as to render a special description necessary. 



The head in its general expression and arrangement of the facial pleats 

 resembles that of the other species. The greater and lesser transverse frontal 

 ridges are present, the latter being less distinct than in the original plate of 

 Gray, and much less so than in the figure of Lichenstein and Peters. The 

 mesial callosity between the nostrils, the nostrils themselves, the warts, setse 

 and oval crenations, are all similar in extent and relative proportions one to 

 the other, as in other Centuriones. The ear, however, presents some points of 

 difference. The " hatchet-shaped " internal lobe is of the same shape, but pos- 

 sesses longer and thicker hair. The auricle proper is similar, while the tragus 

 is much thicker on the inner than on the outer side, which thickness exceeds 

 that of C. mexicanus; and the external lobe is more acute, and has upon its 

 summit a minute, well-defined knob. 



But the great point of variance consists in the development of the corru- 

 gations beneath the chin. These in the known species are but leathery bands, 

 three in number, running from one side of the neck to the other, — the lower 

 one being the largest and covered with hair. In our animal, in addition to the 

 three above noticed, there are two smaller ones, placed anterior to the rest. 

 On a comparison being instituted between these rugae, they were found to 

 differ greatly in the degree of their development. Thus, while the first pli- 



* Prof. Gra}' was in doubt as to the nativity of his species, from the fact that bats col- 

 lecled both from Amboina and South America were containtd in the same bottle. There 

 can be but little doubt, however, that his animal came from the latter country. 



t Abhandl. der Akad der Wisseiishaften zu Berlin, 1854, p. 81, pi. 1. 



I Kev. et Mag. Zool., I860, p. 378. 



1861.] 




360 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



cation commences from a small wart placed midway between the eye and 

 mouth, and extends downwards and forwards to join its fellow of the oppo- 

 site side in a median callosity, it in our animal is sutHciently large to cover 

 in the angle of the mouth. The second fold commences at the external lobe 

 of one ear, and terminates at the corresponding point of the opposite ear. It 

 possesses in the centre a little pit, which is probably glandular, and corresponds 

 tc the cervical sac of Taphyzous. This fold in our animal is less distinct than 

 in others, and terminates in the third plication. 



It is in the last fold that the chief peculiarity of the new form is discovered. 

 Instead of being but a slight elevation of furred skin, it forms a large hairy 

 mask, which, when elevated, hides the face. It is naked within, furred without. 

 The lower and middle parts are sparsely covered with soft hair, while the upper 

 portion possesses two thick clumps of fine fur, one on either side of the central 

 line. This development of the skin gives the animal a very grotesque appear- 

 ance. The entire arrangement might with propriety be compared to an 

 ancient vizor surmounted with rosettes. 



The thumb is large, the basal joint smallest. It is about the same size as 

 that of C. mexicaniis ; larger than that of C. flavogularis and senex, judging from 

 their respective figures. The wing membranes have the same beautiful trans- 

 lucent lines upon them, and in the same positions. That portion between the 

 first and second figures is free from pigment. The interfemoral membrane is 

 excised and hairy. No differences are observed in the skull, either in the den- 

 tition or contour. 



We hesitate in defining the position of this bat. Are we to consider it a new 

 genus, or only a new species of a known one? It would, indeed, seem that sach 

 a marked peculiarity would constitute a sign of more than specific value, yet 

 the general conformation of the animal in all other respects to a common type 

 prevents us in exalting it to a position of generic importance. The dentition^ 

 the shape of the skull, the markings of the membranes, the facial lines, and 

 even the whitish shoulder tufts, are common to all ; and, in fact, the unusual 

 growth of the cervical plicae and some minute differences in the accessories of 

 the ear, are the only points upon which a generic distinction can be based. 

 So while believing that the differences between this species and any one of 

 those belonging to Centurio much greater than those which exist between any 

 two of the species of that same genus, we at the same time do not consider 

 that the mere excessive development of a portion of skin is sufiBcient to form a 

 genus in mammalia. We, therefore, taking a middle course, insert our new bat 

 in the following table, thus: — 



PHYLLOSTOMIDJE Geofr. 



CENTURIO Gray. 



C. senez, Gray. 



C. flavogularis, L. and P. 



C. mericanus, De Sauss. 



Subgen. Trichocoryes nob. 



C. McMuRTRii,* n.s. — Generalcolor russet-brown with an inclination to fawn. 

 The hair of the back is thicker than that of the belly, and is tricolored, the 

 base being plumbeous, the centre paler, and the tip subrufous with fawn. The 

 arms and interfemoral membrane are hairy ; that of the former with thick and 

 short, that of the latter with long and scanty hair, extending down on the back 

 of the feet. The fur of the belly has a tendency to fawn color, especially near 

 the pubis, where there is a distinct line of this hue. The three shades noticed 



• After Prof. McMurtrie, of the Philadelphia High School. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



on the back are absent on the belly. The under surfaces of the humerus and 

 interfemoral membrane are also hairy, but less so than above. The mask-tufts 

 are of a delicate fawn grey, while ihe shoulder tufts are white. 



Measurements. 



I If 



Length from snout to coccyx 2-3 



" of interfemoral membrane 0-5 



" of outer border of ear 0-7 



" of forearm 7-0 



" of first joint of thumb 0-2 



" of second joint of thumb 0-4 



" of third finger 3*3 



" offifth '' 2-3 



" of inferior extremity 12 



Expanse of wing membranes 9-0 



Habitat. — Mirador, Mexico. 



Note on the Bartram Oak (Quercus heterophylla.) 

 BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



The Bartram Oak (Quercus heteropbylla Mx.) has long been regarded by 

 most American Botanists as a hybrid. Accompanied by Dr. Procter, Editor of 

 the Journal of Pharmacy, I lately went to Mount Holly, near Burlington, in 

 New Jersey, to see an Oak with leaves of varied forms, many of which, corres- 

 pond in shape with the figure of the Bartram Oak in Michaux's Sylva. It is 

 less than one-fourth of a mile from the depot at Mount Holly, in a thicket 

 near several willow oaks (Quercus phel los), of which it is plainly one. It has 

 all the characteristics of body, limbs and acorns, peculiar to the willow oak. 

 Many of its leaves also have the ordinary form of Quercus p h e 1 1 o s. Michaux, 

 in his description of the Q. heteropbylla, says that several young plants 

 of the Bartram Oak have been placed in the public gardens to insure the pre- 

 servation of the species. One of these, which was grown from an acorn of the 

 original Bartram Oak, was planted in the Bartram Garden. Col. Carr, who 

 succeeded Bartram in the ownership and possession of the garden, showed this 

 tree to Mr. Meehan, of Germantown, who had charge of the garden during two 

 years. With Mr. Meehan, a few days since, I visited this tree. It also is a 

 Quercus phellos. It has very few lobed leaves, indeed there is scarcely one 

 in fifty of them lobed. 



In Mr. Durand's herbarium are specimens of Quercus phellos with lobed 

 leaves like the Bartram Oak, which he received from Columbia County in this 

 State, where such forms of the willow oak are said to be quite common along the 

 banks of the Susquehanna. The Bartram Oak is not a hybrid, but a mere 

 form of Quercus phellos, which like most American oaks, varies greatly in 

 the shape of its leaves. 



Since writing the above I have seen a specimen from the original Bartram 

 Oak, which has both lobed and entire leaves, showing beyond question that it 

 is a form of Q. phellos. This specimen is now in the general herbarium of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia. 



Description of a new species of North American Grouse. 



BY GEORGE BUCKLEY, M. D., U. S. A. 



Pediociites Kennicotti, Suckley. (N. S.) 

 Kennicott's Sharp-tailed Grouse ; Arctic Prairie Fowl. Tetrao Kennicotti, 

 Suckley, Mss. 



1861.] 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Sp. Ch, In size, general form and plumage, greatly resembling the Pedlocates 

 joAa«fa«eW!<.s (Linn.) Baikd, but differing as follows: In having a broad, bright 

 orange or red patch of naked skin over the eye ; by the constriction of the white 

 markings on the feathers about the neck, anterior parts of the breast and 

 shoulders. The dark markings being thus rendered larger, give the bird a 

 general darker hue, which the eye instantly notices. For the opposite reason, 

 specimens of the true P. phasianellus at first glance seem very light colored. 

 The feathers of the latter are finely mottled, and the larger spot markings on the 

 neck and breast generally V-shaped. The dark markings on the scapulars, 

 neck, back and tail coverts, are in the more southern species light brown, more 

 or less mottled. 



In the P. KcnnicoUi there is an excess of black on the feathers of the neck 

 and fore-breast, while the spots of white on the wing coverts and scapulars are 

 larger, on a ground of a uniform dusky black, free from fine mottling. 



The white spots on the middle of the long anterior feathers of the breast are 

 restricted so as to be very nearly nothing but shaft lines. Each feather has 

 also a narrow border of white. Feathers from the same region on P. phasian- 

 ellus have the white in excess. 



Habitat. — Arctic America, near Great Slave Lake. Obtained by Robert 

 Kennicott, Esq., through Mr. Clark, from Fort Rae and Big Island in the Hud- 

 son's Bay Company's Territory. 



This is a strongly marked species, readily distinguished from the Sharp- 

 tailed Grouse of the United States when a comparison of skins is made. 

 In a few words, this bird may be described as nearly black and white ; with 

 scarcely any of the ferruginous and light ochry colors observable in the P. pha- 

 sianellus — what little of the ferruginous or brownish yellow exists being found 

 mostly on the back posteriorly and rump. 



It might be supposed that Douglas, in his " Observations on some species of 

 the Genus Tctrao" &c. published in the Transactions of the Linnsean Society, 

 vol. xvi. 1833, (read Dec. 16th, 1828), had described this species under the name 

 of Tetrao u^ophasianellus. Indeed, Sir John Richardson so understood it when 

 he said "on examination, Mr. Douglas's 3 specimens in the Edinburgh Museum 

 appeared to me to be merely the young of the Sharp-tailed Grouse with ferru- 

 ginous plumage." (Richardson, in F. B. A., 1831. 861.) Douglas's descrip- 

 tion of T. urophasianellus was based on birds obtained west of the Rocky 

 Mountains, and found in the same localities as the preceding kind, {T. uro- 

 phasianus, or sage fowl,) " with whom they associate and seem to live in 

 harmony." " The sage fowl," he says, " is plentiful throughout the barren 

 arid plains of the river Columbia, also in the interior of North Carolina. They 

 do not exist on the banks of the river Missouri ; nor have they been seen in 

 any place east of the Rocky Mountains." Further discussion regarding the locality 

 whence Douglas's specimens were obtained is scarcely necessary. The follow- 

 ing extract from characters assigned to the species by him, however, will set 

 the question at rest: 



" Head, neck and back brownish gray, waved with bars of a reddish and darker 

 tinge." This description by no means applies to specimens of the species now 

 described for the first time ; one of the principal features of which being the 

 absence of brownish gray and reddish tints. 



Specimens of the true Sharp-tailed Grouse from the Columbia region, and 

 North California, are contained in the Smithsonian collection. They agree re- 

 markably well with each other, and with those from the Rocky Mountains, Mis- 

 souri river and Minnesota — all being tinged with brown ferruginous and ochry, 

 and consistently disagreeing with the specimens and species described as /'. 

 Kennicotti. 



For the foregoing reasons we believe we are justified in the following de- 

 ductions: 1st. That the Tetrao urophasianellus of Douglas is but a synonym of 

 the true Sharp-tailed Gronse {Pedioc(£tes phasianellus of Baird) ; 2d. That the 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



specimens sent by Mr. Kennicott from Fort Rae and Big Island, have hitlierto 

 been unnamed, although birds from the same locality were, examined by Sir 

 John Richardson, and the plumage described by him, under the belief that they 

 belonged to the true phasianeUus. 



We bare named the present species in honor of Robert Kennicott, who in the 

 course of his arduous explorations of the interior of Arctic America, has ob- 

 tained and forwarded to the Smithsonian Institution three fine specimens. 



Notes on Cretaceous Fossils with descriptions of a few additional new species. 

 BY W. M. GABB. 



Since my last paper on Cretaceous Fossils has gone to press, I have had an 

 opportunity of examining the collection of the Burlington County Lyceum of 

 Natural History, at Mt. Holly, N. J. Besides most of the common species, I 

 found several very rare ones, and two or three which were entirely new to me. 

 I shall embrace the present opportunity for mentioning some new facts in re- 

 gard to certain species and for clearing up some doubtful points in the affinities 

 of others. 



It may be worth mentioning, that besides the species described by myself 

 and others, from time to time, in the publications of this Society, over one-third 

 of all the New Jersey Cretaceous fossils in my collection are, as yet, nondescript; 

 and many of the specimens unique. This is true, in a smaller proportion, of the 

 same portion of the Academy's collection. I think I have undoubted proof of the 

 existence of upwards of two hundred unnamed and unchara'cterized species of 

 Cretaceous fossils, found in Alabama and New Jersey. The reason of this is, 

 that they are usually found in the shape of casts, and in most cases are not 

 sufiBciently characteristic to determine the genera. 



TURRITELL.4 Lam. 



T. granulicosta, n. s. — Shell elongated, whorls many, increasing very 

 gradually in size, almost perfectly flat on the sides. Suture impressed, very 

 distinct; bordered below by a slight eleTation of the upper edge of the succeed- 

 ing whorl ; lower angle of the whorl, rounded, subangular. Mouth small, sub- 

 quadrate, anterior angles rounded. Surface marked by about twelve fine, 

 thread-like revolving ribs, three of which are larger than the rest, are placed at 

 equal distances from each other, and from the upper and lower edges and are 

 slightly undulated so as to produce a series of minute nodes. This character 

 shows itself to a much less extent on some of the smaller ribs. Under surface of 

 the body volution marked by a few fine revolving ribs, with regular concavi- 

 ties between them. 



Length of last four volutions, •? in. Width of body whorl, -3 in. Length of 

 aperture, -2 in. 



Locality, Burlington Co., N. J. 



I have long been acquainted with casts of this species, differing only from 

 those of T. vertebroides, Mort. in size. This specimen, belonging to the Mount 

 Holly Society, is the first one I have ever seen that has shown any characters 

 on which to separate it. It has the shell perfectly preserved on a large portion 

 of its surface, and is one of the best characterized species in the formation. 

 There is another species found with it, of which I have only seen casts. They 

 are of about the same size and marked by a few large longitudinal ribs. 



Natica Adanson. 



N. acutispira Shum. — Through the kindness of my friend Dr. Moore, 

 State Geologist of Texas, I have had the opportunity of examining a specimen 

 of this species. It is undoubtedly authentic, and may be the type. It is, how- 



1861.J 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ever, without question, the same as N. rectilabrum Con., the types of which are 

 in the Academy's. collection. The latter species has long been considered by 

 me, and I believe by Mr. Meek, as being identical with N. (Lunalia) concinna 

 H. & M. The only difference that I could observe between the types of Mr. Con- 

 rad's species and Dr. Shumard's was, that the spire of the latter was about '05 

 iu. higher. This, of course, will not entitle it to a distinct specific rank. 



VoLUTiLiTHES Swains, 



V. C o n r a d i Gabb. — This species, like many others of the New Jersey fos- 

 sils, was described originally from casts. It is by no means rare. I have oa 

 two occasions seen portions of the shell. One in the collection of the Mount 

 Holly Society is very thick, marked by, (I think about fifteen) moderately sized 

 longitudinal ribs, crossed by numerous fine revolving impressed lines, placed 

 about an eighth of an inch apart. It belongs with V. bclla, V. Texana, and F. 

 nasuta, to the genus Fulguraria. 



Clavagella Lam. 



C. ar mata Morton is such a rare species, that I had almost believed that 

 Dr. Morton had made some mistake in describing it. The type is lost and I had 

 never seen the species, until I fortunately encountered it at Mt. Holly. 



The shell is larger and more robust than represented by Dr. Morton, but 

 there can be no doubt of the identity of the species. It is a true Clavagella. 

 One valve is evidently attached to the tube, while the other is free. T now pos- 

 sess one of the only two specimens of which I know. 



Venilia Morton. 



V. qu ad ra t a, n. s. — Shell snbquadrate, gibbous; beaks anterior, nearly 

 terminal, cardinal line almost straight, slightly sloping downwards towards the 

 posterior edge, which is obliquely truncated. Anterior end rounded and merg- 

 ing into the basal edge, which is broadly curved. A prominent subangular 

 ridge passes from the beaks to the posterior basal angle, remaining very dis- 

 tinct to its termination. Posterior muscular scar round, anterior scar subcres- 

 centic. Surface unknown, (a cast.) 



Length, 1-5 inch. Width, 1-7 inch. Depth of valve, -75 inch. 



A cast from the "Upper member of the Ripley Group," from Mississippi. 

 Coll. Acad. From Dr. Spillmann. 



About the size of V. Conradi, this species can be distinguished by its regular 

 quadrate outline. This will also separate it from V. irigona. It has more 

 nearly the shape of V. trapezoidea or V. rhomhoidea, but is very much larger 

 than either, and is somewhat more rounded in outline. 



Crassatella Lam. 



C. transversa, n. s. — Shell wide. Beaks (in cast) acuminate, prominent 

 and placed in little less than one-third of the width of the shell, from the an- 

 terior end, which is broadly rounded, being slightly more prominent abreast of 

 the muscular scars than elsewhere. Posterior extremity obliquely truncated, 

 subangulated below, and sloping with a curve to near the upper part of the 

 posterior muscular impressions, where it blends with the cardinal margin which 

 is straight, but most depressed behind. Basal edge sinuous, somewhat emar- 

 ginate just below the posterior muscular scars, as in C. Monviouthensis nob. 

 Pallial border marked by a strong rounded ridge. Edge crenulated internally. 

 Length. 1-3 in. Width, 1-9 in. Diameter, -75 in. (cast.) 

 This species, described from a cast in the collection of the Burlington County 

 Lyceum of Natural History, is as large as the average specimens of C. vadosa 

 Morton, but is much shorter in proportion to the width, being produced pos- 

 teriorly as much as Cpteropsis Con., but in a different manner. This latter 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



character will separate it from C. Monmouthensis. The upper portion of the 

 posterior end, which, in the latter species, is distinctly angular, is broadly 

 rounded off" in the present one. The beaks are also much more distant, nar- 

 rower and more acute, the two sides sloping up at about the same angle. The 

 muscular scars are of about the same shape, the posterior ones longest, while 

 in C. Monmouthensis they are smallest. The anterior end is more prominent than 

 the corresponding portion of C. Delawarensis nob., the posterior end more pro- 

 duced, the truncation being of a similar character, but more oblique, and the 

 basal emargination very distinct, while in the latter form it is ofteu entirely 

 absent. This species seems to be very rare, since this specimen is the only one 

 I have ever seen. 



AxiN^A Poll. 



A. subaustralis Gabb. (Pectwiculus Ausiralis Morton). — Dr. Morton says 

 in his synopsis, " I possess casts of another species from the marls of New Jer- 

 sey." 



These casts I have always considered as belonging to the above species, but 

 had no proof except that they corresponded in size and form to his type. I have 

 now before me undoubted proof of the correctness of my opinion in the shape 

 of three specimens, two of single valves, the other with both valves in contact. 

 I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. G. Brown, the courteous curator of the 

 collection of the Mt. Holly tSociety, for these specimens. 



Pecten Gault., Linn. 



P. T e xanu s Gabb, (^Virgaius Roem. not Nills.) This form is undoubtedly 

 distinct from the F. virgatus of Nillson and Goldfuss. It is a broader and 

 shorter shell, and with the ribs, over the surface, more than twice as numerous. 

 I have frequently observed casts in, the New Jersey marls, and there is a piece 

 of shell from Alabama in the collection of the Academy which I cannot sepa- 

 rate from this species, as described and figured by Dr. Roemer. It may be that 

 they differ by the sides, from the beaks to the widest portion of the shell, being 

 longer and straighter. They show the same equivalve, compressed forra, and 

 are twice as large as Dr. Roemer's figure. The ears I have never seen. 



P. Nillssonii Roem. does not correspond, certainly, with Dr. Goldfuss' 

 species; the markings are the same, but the form is somewhat different and 

 the ears are very distinct. The right ear of the right valve is very slightly 

 emarginate, (see figure.) He says, " Das rechte Ohr der rechten Klappe fiir dea 

 Byssits deutlich ausgeschnilten," while in Goldfuss' figure pi. 99, fig. 8, b, it is 

 very deeply emarginate, the extremity being widened and the hinge line con- 

 cave. 



It may be P. Bur ling tonensis nob.. Jour. Acad. 2 Ser. Vol. 4, pi. 48, fig. 25, in 

 which the artist has represented a few slight undulations in such a way as to 

 convey an erroneous impression that they are almost concentric ribs. The sur- 

 face is plain or very obscurely undulated, and it is marked by fine concentric, 

 very slightly prominent imbrications. 



Neithea Drouet. 

 Pecten, Janira, pars Auct. 



N. Mortoni, nob., Janira id. d'Orb., Peclen qiiinquecoslata Mort. not Sow. 

 Dr. Morton says, "This fossil is beyond a doubt specifically identical with the 

 one described by Sowerby, and so characteristic of the cretaceous strata of 

 Europe ;" but as d'Orbigny justly observes, all the species of this group have 

 been confounded under one specific name. 



With the latter author, I believe it to be undoubtedly different from that 

 species. It is a very common fossil in some of the beds of the Jersey, and I 

 have observed it from Alabama and Tennessee. I have a very fine specimen 



1861.] 




oG6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



from the last mentioned JState, kindly seat to me by Prof. SafFord, tlie State 

 Geologist. The specific characters are as follows : 



Shell equilateral, or nearly so, very inequivalve. Lower valve deep, convex, 

 sometimes a little the longest at the lower left hand corner, when the valve 

 is laid on its face. Surfiice marked by six large radiating ribs, placed at about 

 equal distances, and with usually four, sometimes but three intermediate ribs. 

 When there are four, two or three of them are of about the same size, the other 

 one or two being much smaller and placed on the side of the adjoining princi- 

 pal rib. Between the most external priacipal rib, on each side and the ear, 

 there are from four to six fine liaear ribs. The whole surface is crossed by 

 minute imbricating lines of growth. Upper valve flat or concave, and marked 

 by about from twenty-six to thirty nearly uniform, radiating ribs, with 

 wider concave interspaces. The tops of the ribs are subtriangular or regularly 

 rounded. There is, very rarely, the slightest approach to the sexradiate ar- 

 rangement of the other valve. I have not seen the ears, but Dr. Morton figures 

 them as being small and equal. He has them of nearly the right size, but I 

 think the left hand one, from the remains on my specimen, should be larger. 



Dr. Morton's figure is in the main correct. The basal margin should, how- 

 ever, be more excavated between the large ribs, and the intermediate ribs are 

 too numerous. The inequality of the two sides is well represented. 



This species can be distinguished from both iV. quadricostata and N. quinque- 

 costata by the upper valve. Instead of having six large ribs with three or four 

 smaller alternate ones, all of the ribs are of a nearly uniform size. The valves 

 are less undulate on their margins than either of the above species. 



Roemer calls this species a variety of '^Pecten quadricostata." 



Ctenoides Klein. 



C. squarrosa n. s. — Shell oblique, gibbous. Surface marked by about 

 ten or twelve larger uniform square ribs placed at about equal distances, nearly 

 flat on top, and with semicircular concavities between them, a little wider than 

 the ribs. The top of each rib is marked by two grooves, so as to make it tri- 

 costate. At the base of each interspace is a fine linear rib. The whole surface 

 is crossed by distinct lines of growth, somewhat inbricated. Ears unknown. 

 Height -6 in., greatest width -5 in., height of valve -18 in. 



The form of this species is about exactly like that of C. pelagicum, but it can 

 be distinguished by the much smaller number and relatively larger size of the 

 ribs. 



Locality and position. White cretaceous limestone of Alabama. 



One specimen. Coll. Academy. 



Teredo. 



T. t i b i a 1 i s Morion. Syn. p. 68, pi. 9, fig. 2. Dr. Morton includes two 

 very different fossils under this name. We will have to retain his name for 

 the species figured. The one to which he refers as occurring in the "friable 

 marls" is T. irregularis nob. T. tibialis, however, is not a Teredo, but is proba- 

 bly allied to Vcrmetus. It has never been found boring, but grows in aggrega- 

 ted masses of cylindrical tubes, almost always parallel and straight, sometimes 

 five inches long, slightly variable in diameter from irregular constrictions, con- 

 tains no shell, but the tube is divided at certain distances by transverse septse, 

 convex and thin, the convexity pointing towards the widest (or newest) por- 

 tion of the tube, as if the animal progressed along the tubes, closing the space 

 behind it, as in the manner of the Cephalopoda, but hermetically. I can find 

 no genus described, in which I can place this species, from the fact that the 

 shell is straight from the beginning. I therefore propose the generic name 

 PoLORTHCS, and characterize it as follows : 



Shell tubular, straight or nearly so, growing in aggregated masses arising 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 367 



from a common base. Interior of the tube closed at certain points by a trans- 

 verse septum. Animal unknown. 



I place this genus near Vermetus^ from the statement made by Pictet, that 

 ''Les tubes des serpules sont completement libres, tandis que les coquilles des 

 vermets sont coupees par de petites cloisons interieures transverses, que forme 

 ranimal a mesure qu'il s'accroit." 



H. and A. Adams, in their " Genera of Recent Mollusca, however, do not 

 mealion these partitions. 



P. Americana Gastrochcena id., nob. Jour. Acad. 2 ser., vol. 4, p. 393, 

 pi. 68, ficr. 20. 



Since describing this species, I have obtained specimens, retaining large por- 

 tions of the shell, and which prove that this is a second species of the same 

 genus. The figure quoted above, taken from a cast, illustrates the form. The 

 shell is thin and smooth. The sept* are as thick as the outer wall, placed at 

 distances varying from half an inch to two inches or more. The convexity, as 

 in the above form points towards the larger end. This species is much larger 

 than the preceding. I have seen one tube having a diameter of -7 inch at its 

 broadest extremity. 



Not rare in the Ripley Group of Alabama and Mississippi, and found, as casts, 

 in the yellow limestone of Timber Creek, N. J. 



Descriptions of New Species of American Tertiary Fossils and a New 



Carboniferous Cephalopod from Texas. 



BY W. M. GABB. 



Phos Montf. 



P. bellaliratus. — Shell robust; spire elevated, whorls eight. First 

 three smooth and polished, subsequent ones marked by numerous longitudinal 

 angulated ribs, of which there are about twenty on the body volution. Be- 

 tween them, the interspaces are regularly concave. These are crossed by re- 

 volving lines, about fifteen to eighteen on the body whorl, nine or ten of which 

 are visible on the preceding ones. Suture small but distinct, and bordered by 

 a prominent, undulated rib ; the whole surface of the shell being crossed by 

 well marked lines of growth. Mouth short, rather wide. Outer lip acute on 

 the edge, thickened behind and internally striate. Inner lip covered with a 

 thick coat of enamel, smooth and polished. Canal short, deeply notched and 

 with a large fold on the truncated edge of the columella. 



Length, -6 in.; width of body whorl, -3 in.; length of mouth, -24 in. 



From the Eocene of Claiborne, Ala. Coll. Acad. 



From P. Tezanus, nob., the nearest allied form, this species can be distin- 

 guished by the more robust shape, lower spire, absence of the occasional ten- 

 dency to form pseudo-varices, or peiiodical arrests in growth; the broader 

 mouth and the perfectly smooth columellar lip, which, in the latter species, is 

 marked by a few irregular polished thickenings or teeth. The notcli, at the 

 end of the canal is deeper and more oblique, the longitudinal ribs are more pro- 

 minent, acute, fewer in number and placed further apart. P. Texanus has dis- 

 tinct revolving ribs ; in the present species these are mere imbrications, abrupt 

 above and sloping anteriorly to the edge of the succeeding ones, except near the 

 canal, where the last two or three take the form of libs. 



VoLUTA Lam. 



V. s i n u s a. — A fragment, in the collection of the Academy, from the 

 Miocene, either from Virginia or North Carolina, displays such strong specific 

 characters, that, notwithstanding its mutilated condition, I shall venture to 



1861.] 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



name it. The fragment consists of the principi'il part of the body whorl, incla- 

 ding the anterior two-thirds of the mouth and, on the opposite side, the sur- 

 face, almost to the suture. It resembles somewhat V. mutabilis Con., but the 

 body whorl is more convex in the middle, although the shell was more 

 slender in its outline. Shell thick, mouth narrow, curved and more regular in 

 its width than V. mutahilis. Columellar lip with three very prominent rounded 

 folds, the anterior one most oblique and ending gradually at its outer extremity. 

 The upper two end abruptly, the upper one most decidedly so. These folds are 

 as high as the thickaess of the shell, while in mutabilis they are always faint, 

 sometimes almost obsolete. Columella very tortuous, reflected somewhat up- 

 wards at its extremity, when the shell is in its natural position. Surface 

 smooth. 



Length of body whorl about 2-5 inches ; width about 1'25 inches. 



TURBONILLA. 



T. a s p e r a. — Shell elongated, acute ; spire very high, whorls ten or eleven ; 

 suture distinct. Mouth ovoid, slightly expanded at the inner anterior margin, 

 •angulated behind ; columella nearly straight. Surface of the whorls most pro- 

 minent a little below the middle, and marked by about ten very prominent lon- 

 gitudinal ribs not continuous from one whorl to another. These ribs are 

 crossed by three revolving lines, which take the form of acute ribs between the 

 longitudinal ones, but develops into large nodes on their crest; under surface 

 of the body whorl marked by four additional plain revolving ribs, becoming 

 smaller in advance. 



Length -28 in.; width of body whorl -08 in.; length of mouth "06 in. 



From the Miocene of Santa Barbara, Cal. 



MoDELiA Gray. 



M. striata. — Shell turbinate; whorls five, rounded above. Suture simple, 

 well marked. Mouth about half the length of the shell, angulated above, 

 broadly rounded below, and somewhat expanded anteriorly. Outer lip simple ; 

 inner lip simple above, marked by a thickened line inside the margin, in ad- 

 vance of the umbilicus and extending to the middle of the anterior margin. 

 Umbilicus small, deeply perforated and bordered by a sharp line. Surface 

 marked by minute revolving strias, very numerous, most distinct on the under 

 surface of the body whorl ; and a kss- l:\rger lines of growth. Outline of the 

 whorls regularly but slightly convex above, concavely truncated below, and 

 with the lower angle marked by a sharp angular revolving ridge immediately 

 below the line where the succeeding whorl comes in contact with the surface, 

 so that it is only visible on the body whorl. 



Length -2 in. ; width of body whorl -14 in. ; length of mouth -1 in. 



From Santa Barbara, Cal. Miocene ? 



The carina on the lower angle of the whorl appears, on a cursory examina- 

 tion, to be the broken remains of the mouth, on account of its proximity to the 

 posterior end of the outer lip ; but is, in reality, a normal character, is a very 

 little below the edge of the lip, and is found at all ages of the shell, becoming 

 in adult shells somewhat less marked as it approaches the extremity, on the 

 body whorl. In advance of it, the lip is very faintly emarginate. 



EocELLARiA Fleuriau de Bellevue. 



R. antiqua. — Shell cuneiform, very widely gaping in front. Beaks small 

 involuted ; anterior but not terminal. Cardinal margin straight for about half 

 the width of the shell, joining the posterior margin, which continues a short 

 distance, nearly parallel with the basal edge. The posterior extremity is 

 broadly and regularly rounded. Basal margin nearly straight, the hiatus be- 

 tweea the valves continuing from the extreme anterior end almost to the pos- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



terior end, being broadly rounded in advance and gradually tapering behind. 

 Surface marked by irregular lines of growth, placed very closely, sometimes 

 most distinct on the basal half of the shell. 



Length from the anterior to posterior end, -3 in.; greatest width, at right 

 angles to first measurement, -IS in ; depth of one valve, -09 in. These measure- 

 ments are from a small single valve. I have before me another specimen im- 

 bedded ia a piece of shell of one of the large Mercenarias of the Miocene, pro- 

 bably of James River, Va., which is more than twice as large. From marks on this 

 fragment, it appears to be gregarious. Compared with R. dubia (recent) as 

 figured by H. and A. Adams, this shell is broader posteriorly, more curved on 

 the cardinal side, and the open spice between the two valves, in front, com- 

 mences more abruptly and is continued further posteriorly. The beaks are 

 more nearly terminal, the anterior portion of the shell being less produced. 



Sphenia Turton. 



S. bilirata. — Shell elongated subquadrate, convex. Beaks nearly termi- 

 nal, small, incurved. Umboues small, depressed or undulated by a faint median 

 depression which usually extends about half the length of the shell, becoming 

 obsolete. Anterior extremity most prominent near the basal mirgin. Poste- 

 rior end abruptly truncated. Cardinal and basal msirgins nearl3' parallel, nar- 

 rowest posteriorly. The basal margin is straight or very slightlj' emargiuate. 

 From the beak extend two distinct ridges, both very much imbricated in the 

 young shell, less so in the more advanced state. The most anterior of these 

 runs directly to the posterior basal angles, the other is intermediate between it 

 and the cardinal edge, both ending rather abruptly when the shell is about half 

 of its full size. Surface closely and irregularly marked by heavy folds. 



Length, -2 in. ; width, -35 in. ; greatest diameter (variable) -15 in. 



Santa Barbara, Cal. 



Tellixa Linn. 



T. euryterma. — Shell wide, nearly equilateral. Beaks small, acute. Ex- 

 tremities broadly and nearly evenly rounded. Hinge line slightly excavated in 

 advance of the beaks, straight and sloping behind. Surfiice smooth or marked 

 by faint lines of growth. Hinge small. 



Length, -5 in. ; width, '95 in.; height of single valve, •! in. 



Allied to T. sericea Con., but can be distinguished by the anterior end, which in 

 that species is narrow and even subacute, being in this as broad as the posterior 

 end. The beaks are more nearly central than in that species. Having nearly 

 the same general form as Psammobia lintea Con., the beaks are more elevated, 

 the ends more even and the surface smooth, while it is marked by elevated lines 

 in the latter species. 



From the Eocene of Vicksburg, Miss. 



Venus Linn. 



V. rhy som i a. — Shell small, rounded — subtriangular. Beaks small, incur- 

 ved, and placed about a third of the width, from the anterior end. Posterior 

 cardinal margin nearly straight; posterior extremity narrow, rounded. Surface 

 highly polished, marked by obsolete lines of growth, and radiating lines so in- 

 distinct as only to be visible through a lens by the aid of reflected light. Hinge 

 short, teeth compressed. Pallial sinus deep and broadly rounded at its base. 

 Internal margin smooth, 



Length, -2 in. ; width, -25 in. ; depth of valve, -06 in. 



From Santa Barbara, Cal. Miocene (?) 



I have seen three valves of this species, the measurements above being from 

 the largest. I never saw fossils presenting more the appearance of recent shells 

 than these specimens. Except for a slight change in color, they could not be 



1861.] 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



distinguished from specimens taken fresh from the water. They appear to have 

 lost little, if any, of the animal matter, and preserve a perfect polish. 



The present species may be compared in form with Meretrix (C7y;!A€rea) Mary- 

 landica Con., Miocene Foss. pi. 9, fig. 1. It dififers in being more regularly 

 rounded anteriorly, beaks smaller in proportion, (the umbones being almost 

 acute,) and in being proportionately wider. 



Meretrix. 



? M. Yoakumii. — Shell subquadrate ; beaks prominent, placed one-third 

 of the distance from the anterior extremity, which is regularly rounded. Pos- 

 terior cardinal margin straight. Anal extremity subtruncated. Surface marked 

 by numerous very regular concentric ribs, which are abrupt on the side towards 

 the beak, and slope concavely on the other side. Crests of the ribs rounded or 

 subangular. Interspaces a little wider than the ribs. 



Length, -3 in. ; width, -4 in. ; height of valve, -09 in. 



From a brown, highly ferruginous sandstone, (Eocene), Caddo Peak, Texas. 

 Collected by Prof. Yoakum. 



The specimen being so imbedded that I could not obtain a view of the hinge, 

 renders the determination of the genus somewhat doubtful; but since it pre- 

 sents the usual appearance of this genus more strongly than of any other, I refer 

 the species provisionally as above. The shallow valve, the abrupt posterior 

 end, and the very distinct ribs (about thirty in number on the specimen before 

 me), will serve to separate the species from all the other known species. 



Protocardia Beyrich. 



There is a group, in the genus Cardium, which can always be distinguished 

 by the peculiar surface markings. This group was separated, in 1845, by Bey- 

 rich, under the above name, taking Cardium Ilillanum Sow., as the type of the 

 new genus. I see no reason why it should not be considered a valid genus, 

 since it can always be distinguished by very obvious characters, and appears to 

 be fully as well founded as many ordinarily received genera. It ranges from 

 the Lias to the Eocene. I am not awiire of any species described outside of 

 these limits. The markings are as follows, the anterior two-thirds to four- 

 fifths of the surface is plain or concentrically striate, while the remainder is 

 radiately ribbed. The following species belong to this genus : 



Lias. — C. truncalum Phil. 



Oolite, — C. semipunctatiim Munst. ; C. seniglabrum M. ; C. intextum Munst. 



Cretaceous. — C. Hillamim Sow. ; ?C. pustulosum Munst. ; C. abruptiim Gabb; 

 C. mulHstriatum Shum. ; C. Brazonm Shum. ; C. SpiUmanmi Con. ; C. Colorado- 

 ense Shum. ; C. perer/rinorsum d'Orb. ; C. subhillanum Leym. ; C. impressum 

 Desh, ; C. Giterangcrii d'Orb. 



Eocene. — C. Nicollettii Con. ; C. diversum Con. 



?P. diversa Con. sp. — A small specimen from Houston Co., Texas, from an 

 Eocene deposit presenting most of the characters of this species, but differs in 

 some few points. It has the form of the typical specimens of P. diversa except 

 that the buccal extremity is more regular, the basal margin is entire, and not 

 sinuous as in adult specimens of that species ; this may be however merely 

 the effect of the difference in age. The anterior portion is marked by obsolete 

 cancellations, and the posterior radiations are somewhat different. The ribs 

 are broad and rounded, with small bars placed at short intervals connecting 

 them, while in the young state of P. diversa the ribs are linear with wide spaces 

 and without connecting bars. In that species, also, the radiated portion of the 

 surface blends into the adjoining surface by the ribs becoming obsolete, while 

 in this specimen the same portion ends abruptly, the ribs all being of the same 

 size. It will be necessary to examine more specimens to decide whether this is 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 371 



the young of a variety of the above species, or distinct. Should it prove so, I 

 suggest the name P. gambrina. 



Cardita Brug. 



C. m o n i 1 i c o a t a. — Shell nearly circular ; beaks small, submedian, cardi- 

 nal border straight or faintly arcuate. Surface marked by from fourteeo to 

 seventeen large rounded ribs, strongly moniliform; interspaces narrow, acute. 

 Posterior muscular impressions largest. Pallial line broad and distinct but not 

 impressed. Internal margin coarsely crenulate, one large square tooth, cor- 

 responding with each interspace between the ribs ; extreme edge undulated. 

 Hinge robust. 



Length, -19 in.; width, -2 in.; depth of single valve, -05 in. 



From the Tertiary (probably Miocene) of Santa Barbara, Cal. 



This beautiful little shell is somewhat variable in the size and prominence of 

 the nodulations of the ribs, the number of the ribs themselves, and the depth 

 of the valves. One specimen before me, with about the depth given above, is 

 larger and wider, so that the proportions are a little different. It can, how- 

 ever, be readily distinguished by its small size, subcircular form, and the ap- 

 proximate number and beading of the ribs. 



Perna Adanson. 

 Modiola Lam. 



P. Tex ana. — Elongated subtriangular. Beaks terminal, small ; umbones 

 prominent, though small ; anterior end rounded, narrow ; cardinal margin 

 straight, basal broadly sinuous; posterior basal angle abruptly rounded; poste- 

 rior edtje broadly convex, uniting, with a regular curve, with the cardiuEtl line. 

 Umbonal ridge high, convex ; anterior slope abrupt aod slightly convex near 

 the margin towards the beak, between which convexity and the ridge is a 

 slight concavity ; posterior slope regular. Surface covered by numerous, radi- 

 ating, dichotomous ridges, flattened above, separated by deep depressions and 

 crossed by fine lines of growth. These ribs almost disappear on the anterior 

 umbonal slope for about the marginal half of its width. 



Length from beak to posterior angle, 2 inches. Width, at a right angle to 

 the first measurement, -9 in. Depth of valve, -4 in. 



From a coarse brown, highly' fossiliferous Eocene sandstone from Caddo 

 Peak, Texas. My collection, from Dr. Moore, State Geologist of Texas. 



Differs from P. Mississippiensis (^Modiola id. Con.) in having the cardinal line 

 longer and the shell less oblique. The ribs, which in the latter species entirely 

 disappear in advance of the umbonal ridge, become much smaller in the same 

 part of the present species, but are persistent throughout. All of the ribs are 

 larger and wider apart than in Conrad's species. 



MoRRissiA Davidson. 



M. Hornii. — Shell small, lenticular, flattened. Surface minutely granular, 

 and sometimes with a few indistinct lines of growth, often entirely absent. 

 Outline varying from almost perfectly circular in young shells to indistinctly 

 rounded suijquadrate, (exclusive of the beak,) the greatest width being towards 

 the basal margin, which is compressed. Lower valve, beak acute, area narrow 

 and not so long as the width of the shell. Upper valve sometimes marked by a 

 faint, linear, longitudinal depression, running fi-om the foramen, about half the 

 length of the shell. Foramen large, encroaching on both valves, in the usual 

 manner in this genus, but most strongly on the upper valve ; pentagonal in 

 shape, the upper angle (in the lower valve) acute, lower portion more elongated 

 and with the two lower angles often rounded. 



Length, -11 in. ; greatest width, -11 in. ; diameter, .015 inch. 



From the Miocene (?) of Santa Barbara, Cal. 



1861.] 




372 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



This beautiful little species, which was first pointed out to me by my friend, 

 Dr. Horn, occurs in a rich fossiliferous marl, associated with numerous species 

 of Polyzoa, and some larger moUusca, aud is not uncommon. The measure- 

 ments given above are from the largest specimen. It appears to be full 

 grown. It differs from M. anomioides Scacchi, as figured by H. and A. Adams, 

 in being more rounded in outline, never nearly so quadrate, and in wanting en- 

 tirely the basal emargination, although, in some specimens the lower margin is 

 faintly undulated, showing a tendency to form a median sinus. 



CARBONIFEROUS. 



Go.MATITES. 



G. en tog on us. — Robust, discoidal ; whorls six or seven, gradually in- 

 creasing in size, each one embracing about two-thirds of the preceding volution. 

 Umbilicus broad, making about a third of the diameter of the shell. Hod}' 

 whorl broadly rounded on the dorsum, widest at the umbilical margin, which 

 is bordered by a sharp angular ridge, inside of which tbe surface slopes to the 

 preceding whorl with a very slight convexity. The cast is marked by about five 

 depressions on each whorl, the remains of periodical, thickened lips, which are 

 nearly straight in the younger state, but are slightly sinuous in the larger 

 specimens. Septse placed closely, so that the extremities of the saddles are 

 within the line of the ends of the lobes of the preceding septum. There are 

 two lobes and two saddles on each side besides the dorsal lobe. Dorsal lobe 

 long, sides nearly parallel, extremity doubtful (probably bifid) ; dorsal saddle 

 wider than the lobes ; sublinguteform and acuminate in the middle ; superior 

 lateral lobe of about the same size as the dorsal saddle, but somewhat wider at 

 its commencement and rounded at the extremity ; lateral saddle differs only 

 from the dorsal in being wider; latero-ventral lobe very oblique, with its inter- 

 nal edge extending to the carinated margin of the umbilicus. 



Diameter, 2 25 inches ; height of mouth, '5; width of mouth, 1-2 in. ; height 

 of body whorl, -9 in. 



From the carboniferous limestone of Lampases Co., Texas, immediately un- 

 derlaying cretaceous rocks. State collection, Austin, Texas. 



This species is most nearly related to G.Owenii Hall, and G. Hyas ej. It dif- 

 fers from the former in having a broader umbilicus than is shown in the figure 

 of that species (13th Report, Regents N. Y. Univers,, p. 100,) aud in the addi- 

 tional lobe to tbe septum. The whorls are broader and more embracing than 

 those of G. Ill/as; the septum has the same number of lobes, but they are of a 

 different shape, the extremities being rounded, while the extremities of the saddles 

 are pointed, being just the reverse of the arrangement in that species. The late- 

 ro-ventral lobe of the present species is very oblique, especially on the ventral 

 side, and the corresponding saddle is almost absent, while in G. Hyas this lobe 

 differs onlj^ from the lateral one in size and the ventral saddle is distinctly 

 marked. The carinated edge to the umbilical margin of the body whorl will 

 also serve as a strong distinguishing character. 



Associated with this species is the mutilated cast of a large species of Belle- 

 rophon, which I cannot identify with any known species. I am indebted to ray 

 friend. Dr. Moore, State Geologist of Texas, for the privilege of studying this 

 and many other interesting fossils collected in that State. 



Notes on certain Decapod Crustacea. 

 BY WM. STIMPSON. 

 Pachygrapsus makmoratus. 

 Cancer marmoratiis Fabr. ; Herbst. 

 Grapsus varius Latr. ; M. Edw. 

 Leplograjims marmoratus M. Edw. Melanges Carcinologiques, p. 137. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



It is evidently congeneric with P. crassipes, the type of Pachygrapsus. We 

 ive specimens from Constantinople in the Smithsonian Museum. 



Cyrtograpsus angulatus. 



Ctjrtograpsus angulatus Dana, U. S. Exploring Expedition, Crust, i. 352, pi. 

 xii. f. 6. 

 In our specimens the ambulatory feet are ciliated toward their extremities. 

 •'Rio de la Plata," Capt. Page's Expedition. 



Metasesarma trapezium. 



Sesarma frappzium Dana, loc. cit., i. 354, pi. xxii. f. 8. 



An examination of Prof. Dana's original specimens shows that this species 

 belongs to M. Edwards' genus Metasesarma. 



Geothelphusa berardi. 



Thelphusa berardi Savigny, " Egypte " Crust, pi. ii. f. 6. M. Edw., Hist. Nat. 

 des Crust, ii. 14; Mel. Carcin. p. 178. 



We have specimens from Egypt, brought home by Mr. Marsh. 



POTAMOCARCISUS DENTICULATITS, n. Sp. 



The following description will serve to distinguish it from P. arniatus, the 

 onlj'' species hitherto known. 



Carapax flattened, obsoletely granulated. Antero-lateral margin denticu- 

 lated ; little teeth about eighteen in number on each side. Meros or fourth 

 joint of the external maxillipeds broad, almost quadrate. Length of carapax 

 in a male, 084 ; breadth 1-22 inch. 



Ill the river Atrato, New Grenada. Atrato Exploring Expedition. 



DiLOCARCINUS PICTA. 



Dilocarcinus pictus M. Edw., Arch, du Mus. vii. 181, pi. iv. f. 2. 



Paraguay, Capt. Page's Expedition. 



Dr. Randall's genus Orthostomas was founded on a species of M. Edwards' 

 subsequently constituted Dilocarcinu. This name has, however, been used 

 twice previously in Articultata. 



Dilocarcinus pagei, n. sp. 



A species closely allied to Dilocarcinus spinifer M. Edw. It differs, however, 

 in the following particulars : The surface of the carapax is more even, the 

 limits of the regions being scarcely traceable. The seven teeth of the antero- 

 latei-al margin are arranged as in Dilocarcinus castelnaui M. Edw., the second 

 tooth not being distant from the angle of the orbit. The inferior margin of 

 the orbit is armed with six very sharp, slender spines. The inferior margin 

 of the meros-joint in the chelipeds is four-spined ; while the joint preceding 

 it is one-spined. From D. castelnaui, which it resembles in the shape of the 

 carapax, etc., it differs in having five sharp spines at the antero-lateral angle 

 of the buccal area. 



Paraguay, Capt. Page. 



A Monograph of the Genus .EGIOTHUS, with descriptions of new species. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



Since the publication, in 1858, of the Ninth Volume of the Reports on the 

 Pacific Rail Road Surveys — the General Report on the Birds — the amount of 

 material has steadily and rapidly increased, until there is, at the present day, 

 more than double the number of specimens in the museum of the Smithsonian. 



1861.] 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This great accession of new material in all departments of Ornithology, has. 

 of course, proportionally increased our knowledge of the birds of North America, 

 both as regards the number of species inhabiting the continent, and their geo- 

 graphical distribution; and has furnished the means of making many additions, 

 and some corrections, to the General Report. But, perhaps, to no single group 

 of birds have there been so many added, as to that one to which it is proposed to 

 devote a few pages. 



At the time of the writing of the article on ^-Ejiothus^ in the General Report, 

 there were but eight specimens of the genus in the collection, and those repre- 

 senting but a single species. The series of ^(jioiM^ from an examination of 

 which the present paper was prepared, consists of more than one hundred spe- 

 cimens, from very various localities in America, Europe and Greenland, and 

 comprises all the known species, except A. riifescens and HolhoUi, and is, more- 

 over, particularly rich in the species described here for the first time. The very 

 large series of jEgiothus exUipes were mostly procured by Messrs. Robert Ken- 

 nicott and Bernard R. Ross, though some were received from Donald Gunn, 

 Esq. The series of A. fusccscens were mostly obtained by ourselves in Labra- 

 dor. The specimens upon which the A. roslratus is founded were kindly fur- 

 nished for examination by the Copenhagen Museum, which also supplied the 

 examples of A. canescens, and of the European type of ^4. Unarms. 



The above remarks seem necessary to prevent the doubt that might otherwise 

 very naturally arise, that at this late date there could remain undescribed three 

 species of so well known a genus as the present. We may be allowed to add, 

 that we have formed our opinions only afttr long study and deliberation, as 

 well as consultation with several very eminent ornithologists. 



Though the four described species of yEf/iothus are well known, the synonymy 

 of some of them is in a state of considerable confusion. For this reason, and 

 for the sake of showing more clearly the relationships of the new species, it has 

 been deemed advisable to present a complete monograph of the genus. 



iEGIOTHTJS Cabanis. 

 Fringilla sp. Linnaeus, 1766, et auct. antiq. 

 Passer sp. Pallas, 1811, nee auct. 

 Spinus p. Koch, nee Boie, 1826. 

 Linota p. Bonaparte, 1838. 

 Linaria, Cuvier, 1817, nee Bechst., 1802, cujus typus Fring. cannahina Linn. ; 



nee Linaria Tourn. quae plant, gen. 

 Acanthis^ Bonaparte, 1850 ; nee Bechst. 1802, oujus typus Fring- cardiiclis Linn. ; 

 nee Meyer, 1822, (typus idem): nee Keys, et Bias. 1840, cujus typus Fring. 

 spinus Linn. 

 JEgiothus, Cabanis, Mus. Hein. 1851, 161. Typus Fring. linarius Linn., Baird. 



Gen. Rep. 1858, 428. 

 Linacanthis, Des Murs. 1863, fide G. R. Gray. 



Char. gen. — Rostrum parvum, breve, rectum, plus minus corapressum et acu- 

 tum, basi plumulis rigidis, recumbentibus, nares rotundas occultantibus tectum. 

 Alse longissimEe,remigibus primis tribus fere inter se aequalibug. Cauda elon- 

 gata, valde forficata, rectricibuslatis, rotundatis. Pedes breves, debiles, digito 

 medio sine ungue tarso multo breviore, digitis lateralibus fere inter se aequali- 

 bus, halluce ungue breviore. Ungues elongati, compressi, incurvati, acutissimi. 



Mas et fem. omni temp, pileo rubro induti ; mas nupt. temp, pectore uropy- 

 gioque roseo vel carmesino tinctis. 



The genus which occupies our attention at present is one of the most dis- 

 tinct and easily recognizable of the i^nw^-ztoo'cr. Its essential characters lie in 

 the small, more or less compressed and acute bill, covered at the base with re- 

 curved plumuli, so long and dense as to completely hide the nostrils ; in the 

 long wings; in the rather long deeply forked tail; and in the weak feet with 

 their very short toes. The pattern of coloration also seems, in this instance, to 

 be a generic character, being precisely the same in all the known species of 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 375 



the genu3, and not existing in any other, though there is seen an approach to 

 it in Cannabina. 



In the type of the genus the bill is exceedingly acute and much compressed, 

 the lateral outlines even concave. From this character of bill, there is seen 

 through A. Holbiilli and fascescens, a gradual transition to the A. rostratus, 

 where the bill is much larger, less compressed and acute, and more full and 

 turgid. The plumuli are also considerably shorter and more scant ; and the 

 whole appearance of the bill much that of a Cannabina or even of a Carpodacus. 

 The wings are very constant throughout the genus, differing scarcely appre- 

 ciably in length or pointedness in the different species, though the proportions 

 of the primaries vary considerably in the same species. Exactly the reverse, 

 however, is the case with regard to the feet ; i. e. the characters differ con- 

 siderably in the different species, but always are quite constant in each. Thus 

 in linaritis, ru/escens, HolboUi, fascescens and rostratus the proportions of tarsus 

 and toes are much the same, the difference in absolute length beiug only pro- 

 portional to the size of the birds. In exilipes the feet are smaller and weaker, 

 and the toes shorter, the difference being specially noticeable in the middle 

 toe, which, with the claw, is shorter than the tarsus. In canescens, on the other 

 hand, the feet are larger and stronger, even more so than is proportional to 

 the greater size of the bird ; but the toes are excessively short, so much so 

 that even the unusuallj- long claw does not make the middle toe equal to the 

 tarsus. The tail differs but slightly, if at all, in the different species ; for 

 though A. canescetis is spoken of by authors as having a comparativelj' longer 

 tail than has Unarms, the difference seems hardly more than is proportional to 

 the greater size of the bird. 



With respect to color, the species present a remarkable similarity, not only in 

 the pattern of coloration, but also in the tints. In all, there is found the crim- 

 son pileum, which varies in size, and in the intensity of the color, with sex and 

 age. It has sometimes a peculiar coppery or brazen reflection, very different 

 from the usual deep crimson tint. The breast, with the sides of the head and 

 body to some distance, as well as the rump, are tinged with rosy or carmine. 

 In the examination of a great number of specimens I have noticed a fact that I 

 have seen nowhere stated. It is that the depth and intensity of the color on 

 the breast and rump is in direct proportion to the lightness or darkness of the 

 general colors of the bird. Thu', in rostratus and fascescens, the rosy on the 

 breast becomes so bright as nearly to equal in intensity the crimson of the 

 crown. Canescens and exilipes present the other extreme, the rosy of the breast 

 being verj' light, scarcely more intense than that on the rump, Linarius, and 

 rufescens and HolbolU are intermediate between the two extremes in this respect. 

 The females of every age, and the very young males, either want entirely this 

 rosy on the breast and rump, or else show but very slight traces of it. All the 

 species are streaked above ; the feathers having very dark centres and light 

 borders ; but in fascescens and rostratus these borders are so narrow that the 

 parts appear almost uniformly dusky. In canescens and exilipes these streaks 

 disappear on the rump, leaving that part pure white ; in the other species of the 

 genus the rump is thickly streaked. In all, the sides of the body are more or 

 less streaked with dusky ; and here the same rule holds good as with regard 

 to the rosy of the breast. In the darkest colored species — A. fascescens and 

 rostratus — the streaks are most numerous, darkest, and most distinctly defined ; 

 they become less numerous and distinct in linarius and exilipes, and are some- 

 times almost wanting in canescens. In the females these streaks extend quite 

 across the breast. 



It will thus be seen that the species of the genus are all very closely related ; 

 the characters, when taken from the colors, being chiefly those of intensity, 

 and when based upon form, being found in the varying combination of several 

 features. A. rostratus, indeed, differs from the others in the possession of a 

 much larger and more turgid bill ; but as the other characters agree strictly 

 with the type, and especially as the transition from one extreme to the other, 



1861.] 






876 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



through fuscescens and Holbollii, is gradual, we see not the slightest cause for 

 sepal-ating it, even sub-generically. Moreover, if distinctions were founded 

 upon size of bill, there is no reason why a similar discrepancy in the size and 

 proportions of the feet should not be made the grounds of division, and thus 

 it would be necessary to separate the A. canescens and exilipes ; — a procedure 

 hardly warrantable. We think it probable that the genus, as far as can be 

 judged from the species now known to compose it, is incapable of a natural 

 division. 



Throughout this genus the most tangible evidence of immaturity, next to 

 the absence of the rosy tints on the breast and rump, lies in the presence of a 

 general yellowish or rufous suffusion, particularly about the head and fore- 

 parts of the body. This is accompanied by a general indistinctness of outline 

 of the streaks, the dusky being bordered with reddish, which fades insensibly 

 into the white ground color. Indeed, we are of opinion that this rule is capa- 

 ble of much more extensive application, embracing perhaps the greater part 

 of the genera of the Fringillida the species of which are streaked. It is very 

 evident in young specimens of Passcrculus savanna, Poecetcs gramincua, Melo- 

 spiza mdodia, and other allied specie?, and in some species of Flectrophancs, the 

 females of which resemble the streaked sparrows very closely. Moreover, in 

 some species, as for example, the SpizcUa socialis and Coturniculus passerinus, the 

 presence of streaks below is an evidence of immaturity, these streaks entirely 

 disappearing when the bird is fully adult. 



The " theory of variation," then, in this genus, so far as regards the plumage, 

 would seem to be essentially the same as that which is most usual throughout 

 the family, though agreeing most closely with that exhibited by the Spizel- 

 lince (of Baird, as defined by that author). The sexual variations, however, in 

 the absence in the female, of the red wliich is tlie most conspicuous color of 

 the male, is precisely the same as is seen in allied coccothraustine types, such 

 as Pinicola, Carpodaciia, Curvirostra, etc. 



Geographical Distrihittion. — The genus is entirely confined to the Northern 

 hemisphere, being unknown in Africa or South America. It is, moreover, em- 

 phatically a boreal genus, all the species inhabiting high latitudes, and only 

 coming south during the winter. The species, as tar as now known, are very 

 equally distributed. One is common to Europe and America; two are peculiar 

 to America ; two to Europe ; and two inhabit the neutral ground of Greenland. 

 Both the latter, however, are probably found at times in Europe, and may also 

 very possibly be detected on our own continent. 



Comparison with allied Genera. — The genus is most closely allied to Canna- 

 bina, a European form, with Fringilla cannabina Linn., as type, both having 

 much the same general form and appearance. The differences, however, are 

 readilj' appreciable, and quite sufficient to separate the two. In Linota the bill 

 is much larger, stouter and more turgid, and less compressed and acute, and 

 the nasal flumuli are very much shorter. The feet are larger and stronger, the 

 tees especially much longer, the middle one, without the claw, being nearly as 

 long as the tarsus. The hind toe is as long as its claw. The tail is shorter, 

 less forked, its feathers much narrower and more acute. The wings are much 

 the game. The general pattern of coloration is the same; but the colors of the 

 back are in well defined areas ; the throat is streaked ; the tail and wings with 

 very broad well defined white edges, etc. Apparently the most essential dis- 

 tinctive characters are those lying in the feet. Leucoslicte is the most closely 

 allied North American genus, agreeing with ^Egiothis in many respects. It 

 differs, however, in a stouter, more lurgid, less compressed and acute bill, with 

 its decidedly convex culmen ; in the presence of ridges on the lower mandible. 

 The tail is much less forked, and the feathers are even bioader, with more ob- 

 tuse tips. The feet are much the same; but the lateral toes, in comparison 

 with the middle, are shorter. The claws are shorter. Chrysomitris, with Frin- 

 gilla spinus L., as type, has even a more compressed, attenuated and acute bill, 

 but the culmen is much curved ; the nasal plumuli are exceedingly short; the 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



377 



tail is very much shorter, with narrower and more acute feathe-s ; and the toes, 

 especially the hinder one, are longer. The differences from the other more or 

 less closely allied genera, — Carjiodaciis, Curviroslra, Carduelis, etc., — are too 

 great to require special comparison. 



The following brief schedule will serve to determine the species : — 

 Si/nopsis of Specks. 

 A. Middle toe and claw equal to the tarsus. Rump streaked with dusky at all 

 ages and seasons. 



I. Bill dusky; dusky predominating above; sides very distinctly 

 streaked ; wings and tail very narrowly edged with whitish ; 

 breast in adult deep carmine. 



1. Bill enormously large, arched, the culmen convex. Length 

 6-00; wing, 3-25; tail, 2-70; bill, 0-41; tarsus, 0.68; middle 

 toe alone, 0-41 rostratus. 



2. Similar; smaller; bill less arched ; culmen straight. Length, 

 5-25 ; wing, 290 ; tail, 2-35 ; bill, 0-35 ; tarsus, 0-58 ; middle 

 toe, 0-36 fuscescens. 



IL Bill mostly yellow. Yellowish predominating above; sides con- 

 fluently streaked; wings and tail broadly margined with whitish ; 

 breast in adult bright rosy. 



3. Bill bright yellow, elongated, robust; plumuli short; lores 

 and a large gular spot black. Length, 5|^ inches (Bp.) Holh. 



4. Smaller; bill exceedingly acute, yellow, culmen and go- 

 nys black. Rump white, streaked with dusky. Tail, 2-65 

 inches linarius. 



5. Similar, but smaller; tail scarcely 2 inches ; rump tinged 

 with reddish rufescens. 



H. Middle toe and claw shorter than the tarsus. Rump never streaked in 

 adult males. 



in. General colors light. Breast light rosy. 



6. Size of Zm«rj««. Feet short and weak. Tarsus 0-55 ; middle 

 toe 0-28 exilipes. 



7. Much larger. Feet long and strong. Tarsus 65 ; midiflle 

 toe 0.30 canescens. 



The following table will exhibit the comparative measurements of the species, 

 and, to some extent, the amount of variation to which they are subject: — 

 Comparative Measurements of Species. 



Name 



A. rostratus..., 



do. 



do. 

 A. fuscescens... 



do. 



do. 

 A. rufescens-\ . . 

 A. linarius 



do 



do 



do.(Eur.sp) 



A.iToibmi-f.. 



A. exilipes 



do 



do 



A. canescens.. 

 do. 



Sex. Length Extent. Wing 



9 



f 



i 



? 



6-00* 



5-50* 



5-70* 



5-25 



5-20 



5 30 



4-50 



5-50 



5-40 



5-20 



5-25 



6-00* 

 6-00* 



8-80 

 8-60 

 9-00 



9-00 

 8-90 

 8-50 



9.00 



3-25 

 3-05 

 3 05 

 2.85 

 2-80 

 2-90 

 2-55 

 3-08 

 2-95 

 2-80 

 2-95 

 2-83 

 3-00 

 2-85 

 3-08 

 3-25 

 3-30 



Tail. 



2-70 

 2-55 

 2-45 

 2.35 

 2-35 

 2-35 

 2-00 

 2-65 

 2-55 

 2-20 

 2-35 

 2-25 

 2-55 

 2-50 

 2-55 

 2-75 

 2-82 



Bill. 



0-41 

 0-40 

 0-41 

 0-35 

 0-32 

 034 

 0-29 

 0-34 

 0-34 

 32 

 0-33 

 0-37 

 0-30 

 0-30 

 0-34 

 0-33 

 0-34 



Tarsus. 



0-68 

 0-60 

 0-66 

 0-58 

 0-58 

 059 

 0-44 

 0-56 

 0-58 

 0-57 

 0-60 

 0-54 

 0-55 

 0-54 

 0-58 

 0-65 

 0-65 



.Viiddle 

 Toe. Its claw. 



0-41 

 0'38 

 0-40 

 036 

 0-36 

 0-37 

 0-29 

 0-35 

 0-35 

 0-34 

 0-37 

 033 

 0-28 

 0-29 

 0-30 

 0-28 

 0-30 



0-24 

 0-20 

 0-26 

 0-19 

 019 

 0-22 



0-22 

 0-23 

 0-23 

 0-24 

 0-20 

 0-25 

 0-20 

 0-25 

 0-28 

 0-28 



1861.] 



' Of skin. 



t Measurements taken from Bp and Schl. 



25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Discussion of Synonyms. — As will be seen by the list given at the head of 

 this article, the genus has quite a number of partial and entire synonyms. 

 This has been caused partly by the fact that there are several forms more or 

 less intimately related, to vehich the present has been referred ; and partly by 

 the fact that the two names which have been in most general use for this 

 group, — Linaria and Acanthis, — were both first used in a different connection ; 

 the former designating a genus of plants, the latter a genus of birds distinct 

 from the present. Fortunately, however, it is not diflBcult to refer all the syno- 

 nyms to their proper types, and determine the name to be employed. We take 

 them up in order. 



The type of the genus is presented by Linnaus as a Fringilla, and subse- 

 quently referred by Pallus to Passer. The bird is also given by Koch as Spimts 

 linaria, being considered by that author as belonging to the same genus as the 

 Carduelis elegans (\) {Fringilla carduelis of Linnaeus), which is the type of Spinus. 

 These three names, therefore, become partial synonyms. 



Linaria is first used for this genus hy Cuvier, in 1811, Bechstein, however, 

 in 1802, applies this name to the Fringilla cannabina Linn., and if the name is 

 to be retained for any genus of birds, it must be for that one of which the F. 

 cannabina is the type. But Bechstein's name is itself superseded by Linaria of 

 Tournefort, of 1717, which is the designation of a genus of plants ; since, ac- 

 cording to the rules of nomenclature, the name cannot be again employed in 

 any other connexion. 



Linota of Bonaparte, of 1838, has as its type Fring. cannabina Linn. ; but 

 becomes a partial synonym of the present genus because that author included 

 in it the Fring, linaria Linn., at that time considering the two forms as only 

 6ub-generically distinct. Linda, however, in any event, would have to yield to 

 Cannabina of Brehm, of 182&, which is based upon the same type {Fring. can- 

 iiahina Linn.), and has priority. 



''Acantfiis, Keys, et Bl." (1840), is used by Bonaparte in his Conspectus for 

 this genus. The type of Acanthis of Keyserling and Blasius is, however, the 

 Fringilla spimts Linn., a form generically distinct from the one now under con- 

 sideration, and the name consequently cannot be used in this connection. But 

 even if it were based upon the Fringilla linaria Linn., it would be superseded 

 by Acanthis of Meyer (1822), and of Bechstein (1802), both of which are 

 founded upon a different type {Fringilla carduelis Linn.), and have priority in 

 point of date. 



Thus it happened, somewhat singularly, that up to the year 1851, this very 

 marked and well known genus had received no tenable distinctive name. At 

 that date ^giothus was proposed by Cabanis, and is now in general use. 



We quote Linaeanthis Des Murs, 1853, upon the authority of G. R. Gray, not 

 having an opportunity of verifying it. The identification of the names of 

 Bechstein and Koch in the preceding paragraphs, are upon the authoriJ-y of 

 Cabanis. 



^GIOTHUS ROSTRATUS CoUeS. NoV. Sp. 



Diag. — A. jEgiotho fuscescenti coloribus similis, sed multo major (A. canes- 

 centi staturd par,) rostro maximo, robustissimo, arcuato, fusco ; ventre plerum- 

 que fusco-striato. 



Mas nupt. temp, pectore carmesino, uropygio rosaceo. 



Fem. et mar juv. colores haec desunt. 



Long. 6*00 poll, ala 3-25, cauda 270; rostr. long. 0-41. 

 taraus 0-68, dig. med. 0-41, ung. 0-24. 



Hab, Groenlandia. Eur. bor. Amer. Sept. bor ? 



Descripiion. (Male, adult, summer plumage ; Jacobshavn, Greenland). The 

 bill is enormously large for this genus, but very slightly compressed, the tip 

 but little acute ; the lateral outline is nearly straight ; the culmen and gonys 

 are both decidedly convex, and much rounded, having but slight indications of 



[Not. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 379 



the sharp ridge of Unarms. The commissure is about straight ; but the depres- 

 sion of the tip of the upper mandible, which gives the convexity to the cul- 

 men, causes it to be a little decurved. The bill is higher than broad at the 

 base, and so vaulted and arched as to resemble that of Cannabina or even Carpo- 

 dacus rather than of jEffiothus. It is mostly of a dusky horn color, but the cutting 

 edges, and a great portion of the lower mandible are light bluish horn color. 

 The nasal plumuli are short, scarcely covering more than the basal third of the 

 bill, and are rather scant. The front, lores and a gular spot are dusky, as in 

 all other species of the genus, the feathers of the former having slightly wavy 

 tips. The pileum is deep crimson. The sides and back of the head and neck, 

 and the upper parts generally to the rump, are blackish brown, scarcely re- 

 lieved by the dull brownish yellow which margins the feathers so very nar- 

 rowly as to give an almost uniform dusky aspect to those parts. The rump, 

 though lighter than the rest of the upper parts, is so merely in consequence of 

 the fading of the dull yellowish margins of the feathers into white, it being 

 streaked with dusky almost or quite as thickly as the back itself. The wings 

 and tail are deep dusky brown, very narrowly margined with whitish, most 

 conspicuous on the inner secondaries, but even there much narrower than ia 

 any other species except fuscesccns. The light borders and tips of the median 

 and greater coverts are also reduced to a minimum, being scarcely broader 

 than the margins of the primaries. The under parts are dull white ; the sides 

 of the neck, breast arid body, and the under tail coverts thickly streaked with 

 well defined lines of deep dusky; the throat, breast, sides of the head and 

 body, and the rump, suffused with rosy, which deepens into carmine on the 

 breast, and is palest on the rump and sides under the wings. The streaks on 

 the sides of the body extend quite across the lower part of the breast ; bat 

 the middle of the belly and the abdomen are unspotted. The feet are brownish 

 black, large and stout, but are not disproportionate to the size of the bird. 

 They have much the same comparative size and relative proportions of tarsus 

 and toe, as in Unarius or fuscescens. The claws are all short, blunt and little 

 curved, even more so than in fuscescens, and differing greatly in this respect 

 from cmicsccns, tbe only species of the genus which equals it in size of body, or 

 in the absolute size of the feet. In the forking of the tail and the proportion 

 of the primaries, it does not differ materially from other species. 



Variaiions by sex, age, ^t. — The adult female in summer plumage differs in 

 being notably smaller, though the general proportions, and the shape of the 

 bill are preserved. The crimson pileum is greatly restricted. There is only 

 a barely appreciable tinge of rosy on the breast, and none at all on the rump. 

 The breast is instead thickly streaked, like the sides, with well defined dusty 

 lines and spots, 



Ipmature males, and old males in winter, differ from the adult males in 

 summer, merely in having the rosy or carmine much less vivid and more re- 

 stricted, the feathers of the breast being tipped with whitish. 



Very young birds of both sexes differ, as is usual in this geuus, from the 

 adults, in a general rufous or yellowish suffusion, more or less intense, espe- 

 cially about the head and breast ; and in a general want of the distinct defi- 

 nition of the dusky streaks, which have reddish borders, and fade insensibly 

 into whitish. The streaks on the under parts appear to be more numerous, 

 the middle of the belly only being free from them. In a specimen before us, 

 the rufous suffusion is more decided than we have ever seen it even in Unarius, 

 its color being deeper and darker, as we should expect from the much darker 

 colors of the adult birds. Immature specimens have frequently the much re- 

 stricted pileum of a bright coppery rather than deep crimson tint. 



Accidental variations. — With but a small series of specimens — only nine in 

 number — we are unable to present the variations to which the species is sub- 

 ject as fully as might be desired. As far, however, as we can judge from the 

 specimens before us, they are inconsiderable. But even if they were very 



1861.] 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



great, the species is so marked, and so distinct from any otlier that there would 

 be no difficulty in recognizing it. The difference in the length ofwing of the largest 

 male and smallest female before me is barely three-eighths of an inch. The 

 bill constantly preserves its peculiar size and shape, and in very young birds, 

 still in the downy state, is quite different from that of any other species. The 

 color of the upper parts hardly varies appreciably. The edgings of the wings 

 differ somewhat in breadth, but are never so broad as those of Unarius. The 

 claws vary considerably in acuteness and amount of curvature ; the difference, 

 however, being caused apparently by a greater or less amount of wearing away 

 of the sharp tips. 



Comparison with allied species. — The present species, possessing such marked 

 characters, hardly requires comparison with any other except J'uscescens. As 

 already stated, it is much larger than that species, the diflfereuce in the length 

 of the wings being nearly half an inch. The next greatest difference is seen 

 in the bills. That of -4. fuscescens is larger and every way stouter than that of 

 litiai-ius, but the differences between fuscescens and rostratus in this respect are 

 oven greater. As regards color, the two are almost identical, except that in 

 rostratus the dusky streaks of the sides usually' extend quite across the lower 

 part of the breast. 



From ^1. Unarius and still more from A. rufescens, the differences are suffi- 

 ciently obvious. It differs in color exactly as does fuse, icens, and, in addi- 

 tion, in the greatly superior size, and the enormously largj bill. A. Ilolholli 

 has a long and robust bill ; but it is bright yellow, not dusky horn color ; and 

 the general colors of the bird are those of Unarius. 



In size this species about equals A. caiescens; but here the resemblance 

 ends. The gerieral very dark, instead of very light colors ; the heavily streaked, 

 instead of immaculate sides ; the very large and arched, instead of small and 

 conic bill ; and the very different proportions of tarsus, toes and claws, with 

 other characters, at once separate the tvro. 



It is unnecessary to institute a comparison with A. exilipes, the characters in 

 almost every particular being exactly opposite. 



Rennrks. — It seemed to us hardly possible that so very distinct a species as 

 the present could, at this late day, have remained undescribed. We accord- 

 ingly searched with care all the authorities on the subject, which the libraries 

 of the Smithsonian and the Academy contain, but could find no notice of it. 

 Holb5ll, Temminck and other authors, who admit the A. cinescens, have gone 

 considerably into detail with regard to its variations and changes of plumage, 

 which, as well as those of A. Unarius, are now well known, and a pretty defi- 

 nite " theory of variation " of the genus established. But seasonal or sexual 

 changes of plumage, even the most abnormal, could never produce the marked 

 difference in the size and shape of the bill, and the proportions of the feet and 

 toes. Having therefore been unable to find any description which* ap- 

 plies even approximately^, we have ventured to impose a name, feeling quite 

 assured, that if we are in error in so doing, some one will before long correct 

 the mistake. 



The specimens upon which the species is founded were, with one exception, 

 received from the Copenhagen Museum, to which we are indebted for a fine 

 series of several species, kindly transmitted for examination. They are label- 

 led as having been obtained in Greenland. 



^GIOTHUS FUSCESCENS COUCS. 



Aegiolhus fuscescens Coues, Notes Ornith. Labrador, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phil., Aug. 1860, p. 222. 

 Diag. A. JEgiotho linario paululum minor, rostro fusco magno robusto, 

 plumulis brevibus sparsisque, superioribus partibus fuscis vix luteo stria tis, 

 alls caudaque vix albido marginatis, lateribus distincte nee coufluente fusco- 

 striatis. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



Mas nupt. temp, uropygio rosaceo, pectore carmesiuo. 



Fern, et mas juv. pectore albido fusco-striato. 



Long. 5.25 poll. ; alar. lat. 9.00; ala .2.90 ; cauda 2.35: rostr. 0,35 : tars. 

 0.58 ; dig. med. 0.36 : ung. 0.20. 



Habitat. Amer. Sept. bor. et orient. 



A detailed description of the present species, with the points in which it 

 differs from the linarlus, has already appeared in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, as above, and there is consequently no necessity for giving them 

 here. A comparison with the A. rostratm, and the differences from that spe- 

 cies, will be found under the latter head. The following additional remarks 

 may aid in elucidating the characters of the species. 



A small series of specimens from Moose Factory, Hudson's Bay. differ 

 slightly from the Labrador types in a more elongated bill. The bill, however, 

 still preserves the stoutness, and the dusky color of the present species, and 

 the other characters agree strictly with my original specimens. 



Several specimens have been received from Forts Resolution and Simpson, 

 collected by Mr. Robert Kennicott. which agree in the most minute particulars 

 with the Labrador types. Indeed, so far as we can judge from a series of 

 twelve specimens from various localities in northern North America, the char- 

 acters of the species are more constant than in any other of the genus, show- 

 ing little or no tendency towards those of linarius, from which there is not the 

 slightest difficulty in distinguishing it. 



The figures given by Audubon in his '^ Linaria minor Ray," come much nearer 

 to the present species than to the A. linarius. Moreover, we find in the col- 

 lection two specimens which were received from Mr. Audubon, and which 

 were quite probably the originals of the plate. The description, however, is 

 undoubtedly that of the true linarius. 



-Egiothus rcfescens (Vieill.) Cab. 



Fringilla linaria, Temminck, Man. Orn. 1835, 267. Xec Linn. Nee Temm. 



1820. 

 Fringilla rufescens, Vieill., Faun. Franc. 83, tab. 41, fig. 1, fide Temm. Id. Diet. 



Nouv. 1817, xxxi. 342. 

 Linaria rufesans. Bp. et Schl. Monogr. Lox. 1850, 50, tab. 54. 

 ^^ Linaria minor, Ray, Gould, Birds Eur. 1843, iii. tab. 194," secundum Bp. et 



Schl. 

 Linaria flavirostris, septentrionalis, canigularis, Brehm, Vog. Deuts. sec. Bp. 

 Linaria rubra Gesn.; L. minima Br. fide Bp. 

 Linola linaria Bon. Comp. List, 1838, sec. Bp. 



Diag. A. ^Fjiotho linaria simillimus, sed minor, (long. 4.50 poll.) et cauda 

 breyiore, vix bipoUicari, uropygio plus minus rufescente, fusco-striato. Long. 

 4 6-12 poll. ; ala 2 6-12 ad 7 -12 ; caud. 2 ; rostr. 3^-12 ; tars. 5^^-12 ; dig. 

 med. 3J-12. 



Hab. Europ. 



The above diagnosis, taken chiefly from Bonaparte, is that of a European 

 species, admitted by most modern ornithologists. Following the usual custom, 

 we present it as distinct, though, it must be confessed, not without some doubts 

 as to the entire propriety of such a procedure. The characters of the species, 

 as given in the diagnosis, certainly show very slight differences from the lina- 

 rius. The distinctive features lie entirely in the smaller size, somewhat 

 shorter tail, and, as the name indicates, a general reddish tinge, especially on 

 the rump. But as is well known to be the case in this genus, the young of all 

 the species have this reddish or yellowish suffusion; and in none is it more 

 marked than in the linarius. A specimen of linarius from North America now 

 before me, compared with a rufescens from Europe, has the rufous tinge every- 

 where much stronger than in the European bird, especially on the rump. Wo 



1861.] 




882 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



think that this character is hardly a tangible one by which to separate the 

 two. The length (4.50 inches) and the length of tail ("barely two inches,") 

 assigned to the species might be sufficient to separate, were it not for the fact 

 that specimens of ZmartM.? are to be found, by comparing large series, which 

 approach large specimens of rufcacens very closely. In one of these from North 

 America now before us, the tail barely exceeds that of a rufescens appreciably. 

 Still, as we have never seen, out of a large series of specimens, any individuals 

 nilinariun so small as to measure only 4.50 inches in length, and especially as 

 the species is admitted by so many ornothologists, we have concluded to pre- 

 sent it as distinct. We do not consider that the fact of the occasional occur- 

 rence of specimens of two nearly allied species which cannot be distinguished 

 without difficulty as any proof of the specific identity of the two ; and, more- 

 over, the few specimens Ave have examined may not present, typically, the 

 i-haracters of the species. 



Acanthis riifcacen-s is given by Bonaparte and Schlegel, in their very valuable 

 work, the " Monographic des Loxiens," rather as a sub-species, orrace oilina- 

 riii.t, than as entitled to full specific rank. Bonaparte, however, in his Con- 

 spectus, considers its characters as of full s[)ecific value. The two authors 

 first mentioned speak of it as follows : " Elle offre quelquefois des teintes, plus 

 vives que le sizcrin commun ; mais il parait encore exister, entre ces deux 

 oiseaux, par rapport a la taillc, un passage gradual, absolument comme celui 

 qui nous avons signale entre le si/.erin commun et celui d'Holboll." " Nous 

 avons vu que le sizerin d'Holboll se distingue du sizcrin commun par unetaille 

 plus fort ; la race " — the italics are ours — " dont nous nous occupons mainten- 

 unt s'en eloigne en sens contraire, c'est a dire par une taille plus petite." 



It should be borne in mind that Temminck, whose authority in matters of 

 this sort is deservedly high, takes every opportunity of strenuously denying 

 the existence of the A. rufe-tcens. lie accounts for the discrepancies in size in 

 the following manner : " II existe, dans cette espece " — A. linarius — " comme 

 chez la Fringiila canna/nna, Fringilla phyrrhula, Alauda cri-itata, Perdix cinerea, 

 et chez plusieurs espiiccs d'oiseaux de marais, des individus, souventdes com- 

 pagnies entiercs, dont les dimensions sont moins fortes ; nous avons observes 

 que ces varietes plus ou moins constantes dependent de causes purement ac- 

 cidentelles et locales. II me parait qu'il est ainsi du Sizerin et du pretendu 

 Cabaret, qu'on veut faire passer comme deux especes distinctes." 



'V\\t Fringilla linaria of Temminck, of 1820, is the true linaria : but Tem- 

 minck's linaria of 1835 is as certainly the present species, race, or variety, 

 whichever it is to be considered. That author, in his brief diagnosis, dwells 

 especially upon the small size, and the brownish rump ; and alters the dimen- 

 sions from five inches (which is more nearly correct for the true linaria), to 

 " quatre pouces cinq ou six lignes," which can only refer to the present spe- 

 cies. This identification of his /ma?-«w of 1835 is moreover rendered necessary 

 by the synonyms adduced. 



yEGioTHU.s LINARIUS (Linn.) Cab. 

 Fringilla linaria, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. 1766, 322 ; auctoruraquc antiq. plerique. 



Temm. Man. Orn. 1820, 373 ; nee Temm. 1835. 

 Fringilla [Acanthin) linaria. Keys, et Bias., Wirb. Eur. 1840, 161 ; num. 115. 

 Passer linaria, Pallas, Zoog. Rosso-As. 1811, ii. 25. 

 Spinas linarius, Koch, Syst. baier. Zool. 233 ; fide Cab. 

 JJnota linaria, Ilolb. F. Gruiul. 1?46, 29. 

 Aca)itkis linaria, Bp., Consp. Av. 1850, i. 541. Bp. et Schleg. Monogr. Lox. 48, 



tab. r)2. 

 .Fgiolhus linarius. Cab., Mus. Hein. 1851, 161. Bd. Gen. Rep. 1858, 428. 

 Linaria minor_ Ray, Sw. et Rich. F. B. A. 1831, ii. 267. 

 Fringilla horealtx, VieilL, Nouv. Diet. xxxi. 341 ; nee Temm. quae Linaria 



canescens, Gould. 

 Lhidia horc'dis, Bp., Ind. Eur. A v. 48. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCEENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



Diag. — A. rostro tenue, acutissimo, compresso, flavo, plumulis hand densis 

 ad medium porrectis, superioribus partibus luteis fusco-striatis, lateribus 

 uropyg'ioque semper fusco-striatis, pedibus mediocribus, digito medio cum 

 uague tarso aequale. 



Mas nupt. temp, jugulo, pectore, lateribus, uropygioque roseo tinctis. 



Fem. et mas juv. pectore uropygioque albidis, fusco-striatis. 



Loug. 5.50 poll. ; alar. lat. 9.00 ; ala, 3.00 ; cauda 2.50 ; rostr. 0.34 ; tarsus 

 0.56; dig. med. 0.35; ung. 0.22. 



Hah. Amer. Sept., praecip. bor.; Europ. Asia. 



Description. (Adult male, in breeding plumage). — The bill is small, slender, 

 exceedingly acute, much compressed, higher than broad at the base, the late- 

 ral line very concave ; the culmen and gonys are about straight ; the commis- 

 sure appears straight to the angle, but the cutting edge of the lower mandible 

 has a considerable lobe towards the base, which being incurved, is concealed 

 by the overlapping edges of the upper mandible in the closed bill. The bill is 

 bright yellow, except the culmen and gonys, which are dusky. The nasal 

 plumuli, though not very dense, are considerably lengthened, extending over 

 half the bill. The front, lores and a rather small gular spot are blackish ; but 

 the feathers of the first have whitish tips, which give it a hoary appearance. 

 There is a superciliary streak somewhat lighter than the adjacent parts, but 

 it i.s illy defined. The entire crown is deep crimson, as in full plumaged birds 

 of all the species of the genus. The sides and back of the head and neck, the 

 upper parts generally to the rump, the scapulars and lesser wing coverts, are 

 variegated with blackish brown and dingy yellowish ; each feather having its 

 central portion of the former color, its edges and tip of the latter. On the 

 rump the yellowish mostly disappears, that part being streaked with dusky 

 and pure white. The wings and tail are brownish black or deep dusky; the 

 latter all round, the former only on the outer vanes edged with whitish. The 

 edging is very narrow on the primaries, but on the inner secondaries and ter- 

 tials becomes broad and conspicuous. The median and greater coverts are nar- 

 rowly edged and broadly tipped with white, with a tinge of yellowish, form- 

 ing two transverse bars on the wings. The throat, breast, sides to some 

 distance, with the rump, are tinged with carmine, deepest on the breast, 

 faintest on the rump. This color, though brighter than in canescens, or exilipes, 

 never becomes as deep a crimson as is seen in fuscesccns, having always more 

 of a rosy tint. It extends along the throat, not however encroaching on the 

 sides of the neck, quite to the dark gular spot, which it does not invade, but 

 extends on the sides of the head almost to the eyes. Along the sides of the 

 body it reaches quite to the tibiae, further than on the middle of the belly. 

 There are no dusky streaks across the breast; but these extend along the 

 sides. They are pretty numerous, much more so than in exilipes, and quite 

 dark ; but they are illy defined, and more or less confluent, lacking the sharp- 

 ness of outline of /uscescen.?. The under tail coverts have dusky shaft line.s. 

 The feet are deep brownish black, moderately long and stout ; the middle toe 

 with its claw about equal to the tarsus. The claws are moderately long, 

 curved and acute, and black. 



Variations by sex, age, <5"c. — The old males in winter plumage differ from 

 those in summer merely in having the crimson of the crown less intense ; the 

 rosy of the breast and rump lighter and more restricted, the feathers of the 

 breast being tipped with whitish for a greater or less extent; and in a rather 

 more notable amount of yellowish, especially observable on the rumi) and sides 

 of the breast. 



The adult females either want entirely, or have but very slight traces of the 

 rosy of the male on the breast and rump. The latter is generally, except in 

 wanting the rosy tint, much as in the male ; but the breast has instead alight 

 dingy yellowish wash, and is streaked quite across with dusky. The female 

 is, moreover, usually smaller than the male. 



1861.] 




384 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Immature birds of both sexes hardly differ from each other, except that the 

 young- males soon show slight traces of the rosy, which the young females en- 

 tirel}' want. The young of both sexes maj^, however, be readily recognized 

 by the presence of a general yellowish or buffy suffusion, especially about the 

 head and neck, more or less conspicuous. This is sometimes so marked in 

 character as to cause the bird to be streaked above with dusky and reddish 

 brown, and to have the sides of the head and neck, the breast and the sides of 

 the body yellowish brown. The lateral streaks are more indistinctly defined, 

 having borders of the prevailing reddish, which fades insensibly into white. 

 The white edgings of the wings and tail partake of the general buff tinge. At 

 this age also the crimson of the crown is restricted to scarcely more than a 

 fi'ontal patch, and has often a coppery or brazen rather than a deep crimson 

 color. 



Accidental variations. — Although this species in common with others of the 

 genus, varies somewhat in size and proportions, in addition to the sexual and 

 seasonal changes to which it is subject, the variations are within narrow 

 limits, and the species readily recognizable through all of them. In a very 

 large series (over fifty in number) from Europe and various localities in North 

 America, the greatest difference in length is hardly over one -third of an inch. 

 The difference in length of wing is about -25 of an inch. The feet do not dif- 

 fer appreciably in length or stoutness, though the claws vary somewhat in 

 length and amount of curvature. The bill is usually very constant, preserving 

 its attenuation and acuteness. Its color, however, differs; sometimes the up- 

 per mandible, more rarely the greater part of the lower, are dusky ; and on 

 the other hand, the usual gamboge yellow is so bright as to become chrome. 

 The i)roportions of the quills vary considerably. Usually the second is long- 

 est, the first and third equal and nearly equalling the second ; the fourth a 

 little, and the fifth considerably shorter. Sometimes the first three are about 

 equal : sometimes the first is absolutely longest : and, again, the fourth is so 

 long, or the first so short, as to cause them to become equal. The variations 

 in plumage, other than those of sex and age, already adverted to, are unim- 

 portant. The rump is, in all ages and seasons, conspicuously streaked. 



Comparison with allied species. — The present species having been taken at the 

 standard of comparison, the differences between it and other species will be 

 found detailed under their respective headings. 



In a critical and extended examination and comparison of an extensive 

 series of specimens from both continents, I have been unable to detect any 

 characters by which to separate the American and European birds. They 

 appear to be absolutely identical. 



Discussion of synonymy. — Although this species has a large number of syno- 

 nyms, these arise chiefly from the numerous genera to which it has been re- 

 ferred. The only points which need discussion here are the following : 



^ The Fringilla borealis Vieill. (not of Temminck,) is certainly the present spe- 

 cies, although Temminck places it as a synonym of his F. borealis, which is Liria- 

 ria canescens Gould. No description accompanies the Linota borealis of Bona- 

 parte's "Index Europearum Avium." That author quotes Fringilla linaria 

 Ray. and Fring. borealis Vieill., which would cause his Linota borealis to be- 

 come a synonym of the present species ; but, if so, he is in error in adding 

 Linaria canescens Gould. It is most probable, however, that he was at that 

 time indisposed to admit the latter as a distinct species. The identification of 

 his Linota borealis with the present species is, moreover, rendered necessary by 

 the synonyms adduced to his Linota linaria, [Linaria rubra Gesn., and L. rufes- 

 cens Vieill.) causing the latter to refer to the smaller species, as a synonym of 

 which Bonaparte himself, in his Conspectus, considers it. 



The Linaria minor Ray, of Swainson's Fauna Boreali-Americana,is the true 

 A. linarius of North America. L. minor Ray, of Gould's Birds of Europe, is 

 considered by Bonaparte and Schlegel as referring to the A. rufescens. With- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 385 



out the original description of Ray before us, we are unable to say to which 

 of the two species his L. minor refers. 



jEgiothus HoLBOELti (Brehm) Cab. 



Linaria borealis, Schleg. fide Bp.; nee Vieill.; nee Temm. 1820, nee Temm. 1835, 



nee Aud., nee Linota bor. Bp, 

 Linaria Holboelli, Brehm., Vog. Deutschl. 280. 



Acanthis Holbolli, Bp. et Schleg. Monogr. Lox. 1850, 50, pi. 53. — Bp. Consp. At. 

 1850, 541. 



Diag. — A. ^giotho linario major, rostro flavissimo, maximo, robustissimo, 

 elongato, basi tantum plumulis, tecto ; macula gulas extensa lorisque nigris ; 

 vertice rubro ; pectore uropigioque rosaceis. 



Long. 5 3-12 poll ; Ala. 2 10-12 ad 2 11-12 ; cauda 2 2-12, rostr. long. 4J- 

 12 ad 4|-12, alt. 3-12, lat. 2\-\2. ; tarsus 6J-12 ; dig. med. 4-12, ung. 2^-12 ; 

 hallux 2i-12, ung. 3^-12. 



Hab. Eur. bor. et occid. 



The preceding diagnosis is of a species, which, like the A. rufexcens, is so 

 closely allied to the A. linarius as to render it a matter of some douVjt whether 

 it be anything more than a variety or race of that species. Its characters lie 

 in the somewhat larger size, and the verj' large bright yellow bill with its 

 short plumuli. Never having had an opportunity of examining a specimen of 

 this species, there being none in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institute, or 

 of the Philadelphia Academy, we can express no opinion with regard to its 

 relationships to the A. linaria. It is, we believe, admitted as a distinct species 

 by most later ornithologists, though Bonaparte and Schlegel, in their Mono- 

 graph of the Loxii7icB, place it in the same category as the A. riifcscens. Having 

 nothing to offer respecting it, we take the liberty of transcribing the remarks 

 made by the authors just mentioned : 



" Cette race du Sizerin resemble sous tous les rapports a I'espece precedente," 

 — A. linarius — " mais elle est d'une taille plus forte, et son bee est plus long et 

 plus robuste. Elle est beaucoup plus rare que le Sizerin commun et la pe- 

 tite race appellee Cabaret ou Ac. rufesceiis. Nous avons examine un nombre 

 assez considerable d'individus pris en Saxe et en Belgique. On trouve quel- 

 quefois des individus intermedires entre cette race et le Sizerin, de sorte qu'il 

 existe entre ces oiseaux, un passage semblable §, celui qui a lieu entre les 

 Bec-croises grand et ordinaire." 



Temminck places this species (" HolboU's Leinfink " of Brehm) as a syno- 

 nym of his Fringilla borealis. This, however, is an error, his F. borealis being 

 the Linaria canescens of Gould. 



We quote Linaria borealis Schleg. on the authority of Bonaparte's Conspectus. 

 It is, so far as we can learn, the only instance of the application of the name 

 borealis to this species. A discussion of Liiiota borealis Bp. will be found under 

 A. linarius. 



JEgiothus exilipes Coues. Nov. sp. 



Fringilla borealis, Aud. Orn. Biog. v. 1837, 87 ; pi. 400 ; nee Vieill. 

 Linaria borealis, "Temm." Aud. B. Am. 1841, iii. 120; pi. 178, nee Temm. 

 ^giothus canescens, Ross, Edin. Phil. Journ. Jan. 1861, 16.'5. Minime Auctorum. 



Diag. — A. .^giotho linario similis, ejusdemque staturse; rostro plerumque 

 parvo, (sed variante) acuto, conico, magna ex parte fusco ; plumulis densis- 

 simis, sed brevibus ; fronte canescente, loris gulaeque macula, atris ; uropygio 

 candido, immaculato, lateribus striis paucis confluentibus fuscis ; pedibus 

 parvis exilibusque, digitis brevibus ; medio cum ungue tarso breviore. 



Mas nupt. temp, pectore uropygioque rosaceis. 



Fem. et mar. juv. hie color deest. 



Long. 5-50 poll. ; alar. est. 9-00 • ala, 3-00 ; canda, 2-50 ; tarsus, 0-30 ; digit, 

 med. 0-28 ; ung. 0-22. 

 Hab. America Sep. bor. 



1861.] 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Description. — [No. 19,686, adult male, Fort Simpson, 30 Apr. I860.] The 

 bill is small, short, stout, thick at the base, regularly conical, somewhat com- 

 pressed, but not so much so as in A. linarius, dusky throughout, except the 

 cutting edges. The tip of the upper mandible slightly overhangs that of the 

 lower. The culmen, gonys, and commissure from the angle are all about 

 straight. The nasal plumuli are exceedingly full, dense and heavy, reaching 

 about half way to the top of the bill. They are very much heavier than in 

 linarius, and though absolutely shorter than in that species, they are compara- 

 tively as long, owing to the smaller size of the bill. The front is dusky like 

 the lores, and more broadly so than linarius, but the feathers are tipped with 

 whitish, which gives the forehead a hoary appearance. There is an appreci- 

 able light superciliary streak, more distinct than in linarius. The lores, and a 

 gular spot are dusky. The crown is deep crimson, exactly as in linarius. The 

 general color of the upper part is that of linarius ; but the dusky streaks are 

 smaller, more numerous and indistinct, especially on the anterior portions of 

 the back ; the yellowish is much lighter than in linarius, approaching to white. 

 Towards the rump the yellowish tint disappears before the streaks do, leaving 

 a space streaked with dusky and pure white. The rump is pure white, imma- 

 culate, with a delicate light rosy tinge. The upper tail coverts have slightly 

 dusky centres. The wings and tail are much as in linarius. The primaries 

 are very narrowly edged and tipped with white, the edging becoming quite 

 broad on the inner secondaries. The median and greater coverts are narrowly 

 edged, and broadly tipped with white, forming two transverse bars. The 

 second primary is longest ; the first and third equal and scarcely shorter ; the 

 fourth a little less, the fifth very much shorter. The under parts are white 

 the throat, breast and belly with a light tinge of rosy, many shades lighter 

 than in specimens of linarius of the same age and season. The sides are 

 streaked with dusky ; but the streaks are very sparse, and illy-defined, much 

 more so than in linarius. The under tail-coverts are almost immaculate. The 

 feet are brownish black, as are also the claws; the feet are much smaller, and 

 weaker than in linarius, the difference being especially noticeable in the length 

 of the toes. The middle toe without the claw is shorter than that of linarius 

 by about the length of the last joint of the latter species. 



Variations by age, sex, ^c. — As is usual throughout this genus, evidences of 

 immaturity are to be found in the faintness, or entire absence of the rosy tint 

 of the breast and rump, these parts being lightly streaked with dusky ; in the 

 restriction of the crimson of the crown to a frontal patch, and in a general 

 light yellowish or buffy suffusion about tbe head and fore-breast. The suffu- 

 sion, however, does not appear to be as deep as that of linarius, and some other 

 species. The females are hardly distinguishable from the young males ; but 

 the crimson of the crown has usually an orange reflection, and the breast and 

 rump are more thickly streaked. The size appears rather less. 



Accidental Variations. — The variations to which this species is subject, other 

 than those of sex and age, are very great, much more so than exist in any 

 other species of the genus. The dimensions of the whole bird ; the size, shape 

 and color of the bill ; the color and number of the streaks above and on the 

 sides ; the extent and purity of the white of the rump, &c., are all liable to 

 great variations. Indeed, almost the only character that is perfectly constant 

 lies in the feet, in their absolute size, and the relative length of the tarsus and 

 toes. With this variation, however, the specimens all have a general resem- 

 blance to each other, which, together with the character of the feet, render it 

 easy to distinguish them from any other species of the genus. The precise 

 combination of characters varies with almost every specimen ; and there are, 

 moreover, intermediates to be found between all extremes ; entirely removing 

 the doubt which might otherwise arise, as to whether there were not two or 

 more species combined in the series of specimens. 



In an extensive series, comprising thirty-seven specimens, I have found the 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 387 



variations to be as follows. The dififereace in total length of body is rather 

 more than '50 of an inch. The average size is rather less than ;i-50 inches. 

 The difference in length of wing from the carpal joint is somewhat over -25 

 of an inch. In length of tail the differences are about the same. The feet are 

 constant, both absolutely and relatively, the variations being scarcely appre- 

 ciable. The claws, however, vary quite notably in length and amount of cur- 

 vature. To express the difference in the feet of this species and the A. Itna- 

 riua, relatively without measurement, we have said that in the former the tar- 

 sus exceeds the middle toe and claw, and that in the latter the toes are 

 equal ; but this variation in the size of the claws may cause the fact not to hold 

 good in all cases. The bills vary quite notably in size and color, they being 

 sometimes nearly as bright yellow as in linariu.i ; but they are usually almost 

 entirely dusky, and they are never so acutely pointed and so much compressed 

 as in that species, preserving their regular conical shape without much varia- 

 tion. The plumuli vary in color, from dingy whitish to dusky, but are usually 

 of the former color, and are always heavy and full. The upper parts are 

 usually as given in the description ; lighter than in Unarms, the conspicuous 

 yellowish or buff of that species fading into whitish more or less pure. Some- 

 times, however, the upper parts are quite like Unarms ; in other specimens 

 the dusky centres of the feathers become so broad and conspicuous as to 

 give the prevailing color of the upper parts, causing the specimens to approach 

 A. fuscescens in this respect only. In these cases, however, the light edges of 

 the feathers, though so narrow, are nearly pure white, and the rump is very 

 broadly pure white, entirely without streaks, forming a marked contrast. 

 The edgings of the wings and tail do not vary notably, being always nearly 

 identical with those of Unarius, but perhaps a little purer. The rump in adult 

 birds is pure white, with a rosy tinge, without spots or streaks ; but in imma- 

 ture specimens it is frequently marked with dusky, though never so thickly as 

 in Unarius. The dusky streaks on the sides are usually very sparse, and 

 though varying in number and intensity, never become so thick and dark as in 

 Unarius. These streaks in immature and female birds frequently extend as 

 slight touches cjuite across the breast. In adult males the breast is immacu- 

 late, with a light rosy tint. In the fullest plumaged males the rosy is always 

 several shades lighter than in the males of Unarius of the same age. 



Comparison tcith alUed species. — A. Unarius being most closely related, in the 

 foregoing descriptions the comparisons have been made with that species. 

 The points of difference may be summed up as follows : The smaller, more 

 conic, less compressed, darker colored bill, with its very heavy and dense 

 nasal plumuli : the different character of the streaks above ; the white imma- 

 culate rump ; the paucity of the streaks on the sides ; the much lighter rosy 

 tinge of the breast and abdomen ; the smaller, every way weaker feet, with 

 their much shorter toes. 



Some specimens — the largest and lightest colored — resemble A. cancscens in 

 general appearance, having the same conic bill, heavy plumuli, white rumps, 

 sparsely streaked sides, &c. They may, however, be readily distinguished by 

 the great discrepancy in the size of the feet and claws, those parts ia canes- 

 cens being as much larger and stronger in Unarius as they are smaller and 

 weaker than in that species in exilipes. 



The species requires no comparison with A. fuscescens, still less so with A. 

 rostratus, the differences from both of those species being sufficiently obvious. 



The very large, bright yellow bill, with the short plumuli of A. IlolhoUi, 

 at once separates that species. The smaller size, more acute bill, less dense 

 plumuli, general rufous tinge and shorter tail of A. rufescens will serve to dis- 

 tinguish it. Both these species, moreover, have the same character of feel as 

 has the A. Unarius. 



Discussion of synonymy. — The only name which we have met with which can 

 be referred to this species, is the FringiUa, or TAnaria borcaUs Temm., of Au- 



1861] 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dubon. The identification witli the present species, rather than rrith the 

 borealis of Temminck, which is the true Linaria canescens, Gould, is rendered 

 necessary by the measurements given, especially those of the entire length, 

 and length of tarsus. Moreover, a specimen of exilipes now before us agrees 

 so minutely with Audubon's figure and description, that we have not the 

 slightest hesitation in referring the one to the other. 



In the Edinburgh Philosophical Review, as above, there is given, by Ber- 

 nard R. Ross, Esq., a list of a collection of birds made by himself on Mac- 

 kenzie's River. This is the same collection that was sent to the Smithsonian ; 

 and the ^■Egiothus canescens there mentioned refers to the very series of birds 

 upon which we have based our A, exilipes. The mistake is, however, A'ery 

 pardonable, as the writer bad no specimens of the true canescens for compari- 

 son ; and affords a good example of the caution necessary to be used in identi- 

 fying specimens from descriptions, especially when so brief as is the diagnosis 

 of A. canescens in the General Report. 



^GioTHUs CANESCENS, (Gould,) Cab. 

 Linmia canescens, Gould, Birds Eur., 1843, iii. tab. 193. 

 Linota canescens, Bon. Comp. List, 1838. 

 Acanthis canescens, Bon. Consp. Av., 1850, 541. Bp. et Schl. Monogr. Lox.j 



1850, 47, tab. 51. 

 /Effioifivs canescens, Cab. Mus. Hein., 1851, 161. Baird, Gen. Rep. Birds, 1858, 



429. 

 " Linaria Horncmanni, Holb. Kroy. Nat. Tidsk., 1843, iv. 398." 

 Linota Hornemajmi, Holb. Faun. Groen., 1846, 30. 



Fringilla borealis, Temm. Man. Orn, 1835, 264, excl. syn. Nee Vieill. ; nee 

 Frincj. bor. vel Linaria bor. And. qu£B ^F^g. exilipes Coues ; nee Linota bor. 

 Bp. quae Fring. linaria L. 



Diag. — A. JEgioiho bnarto major (long. 5-75 poll.), rostro mediocri, conico j 

 plumulis densissimis, superioribus partibus fusco alboque striatis, inferioribus 

 uropygioque albidis immaculatis ; cauda elongata, pedibus validissimis, un- 

 guibus protractis et incurvatis. 



Mas uupt. temp, pectore uropygioque roseo indutis. 



Fem. et mas juv. pectore uropygioque albidis, fusco-lineatis. 



Long. -6 00 poll. ; cauda, 2-75; ala, 3-25; rostrum, 0-34 ; tarsus, 0-65 ; dig. 

 raed. 0-30; ung. 0-28. 



Hab. — Groenlandia. Europ. Amer. Sept. ? 



Description. — (Adult, Greenland. From Holboll himself.) The bill is mode- 

 rate, or rather small for the size of the bird, regularly conic, very stout at the 

 base, where it is as high as long ; only moderately compressed and acute } 

 the upper mandible is mostly dusky, the lower, dusky only along the gonys, 

 the rest being yellowish. The nasal plumuli are very dense, and reach nearly 

 to the middle of the bill; those between the nostrils are grayish, those on the 

 sides of the bill much darker, of the same color as the brownish black lores 

 and gular spot. The front is brownish black, but the feathers have broad, 

 hoary tips. There is a pretty well defined, light superciliary streak, extending 

 quite to the base of the bill, and including the lateral feathers of the front. 

 The crimson pileum occupies nearly the whole of the crown. The sides of 

 the head, sides and back of the neck and upper parts generally, are streaked 

 with brownish black and white ; the feathers have the centre of the former 

 color, and are edged and tipped with the latter. The white is nearly pure, 

 except on the sides of the head and neck, where it has a slight yellowish 

 tinge. The proportions of the primaries do not differ materially from those 

 of other species. The first, second and third are nearly equal and longest ; 

 the fourth is a little, and the fifth considerably shorter. The quills are brown- 

 ish black, edged with white, very narrowly on the primaries, moie broadly on 

 the secondaries ; the tips of the greater and median coverts are broadly white, 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 389 



forming two conspicuous transverse bands across the wings. The tail is 

 brownish black, like the wings, quite broadly edged with white ; and is com- 

 paratively as well as absolutely longer than in other species. The entire 

 under parts, from the throat, together with the rump, are pure white, entirely 

 without spots or streaks ; the breast and rump having a light rosy tinge. The 

 feet are brownish black; remarkably long and strong for this genus, exceed- 

 ing in this respect those of any other species. The claws are all long, strong, 

 greatly curved and very acute. That of the middle toe nearly or quite equals 

 its digit, and that of the hind toe much exceeds it. 



The entire plumage in this species is of a thick, soft, moUipilose character, 

 enabling it to endure the rigors of winter in very high latitudes. 



Variations by age, sex, S^'C. — Immature birds, though preserving the general 

 characteristics and appearance of the adults, differ in several respects. The 

 changes are entirely analogous to those adverted to under A. exilipes. The 

 pure white edgings of th", feathers of the upper parts and wings become 

 tinged with yellowish, more or less intense, especially about the head and 

 neck, where there is a general bulfy suffusion. This yellowish sometimes be- 

 comes very bright and conspicuous. The crimson on the crown is restricted 

 to a patch extending scarcely half way to the occiput. The nasal plumuli 

 and the front are more yellowish, and the dusky lores and gular spot more 

 restricted. The bill is yellowish, except along the culmen and gonys. There 

 is little or no indication of the rosy on the breast and rump, which, instead, 

 are sparsely streaked with narrow lines of dusky. 



According to HolboU, the summer plumage differs from that of winter, 

 chiefly by the narrower whitish edgings of the feathers. The bill is entirely 

 dusky, except along the cutting edges, and very thick, being as broad as high. 

 The old females, and the young males after the first month, differ from the 

 adult males in winter plumage in the entire absence of the rosy on the breast 

 and rump, and in the less purity of the white beneath, the sides being lightly 

 streaked. 



"Without a sufiRciently extensive series of skins, I am unable to present the 

 variations in size, proportions, &c., to which this species is subject. As, how- 

 ever, neither Temminck nor HolboU, as far as I can discover, make mention of 

 them, it is to be presumed that the species is subject to no very remarkable 

 deviations in these respects. 



Comparison with allied species. — This species, in its large size, strong feet and 

 claws, general light colors, white rump, <fec., is too distinct to require compari- 

 son, except perhaps with A. exilipes. The differences will be found detailed 

 under the head of the latter. 



Discussion of stpionymy. — We have not been able to find where Linaria canes- 

 cens is first characterized ; but, as Bonaparte, in 1838, gives a Linota canescem, 

 the species must have been introduced at least as early as that date. The dale 

 of Linota Ilornemanni is 1843 ; and the latter consequently loses the priority 

 claimed for it by HolboU. 



The Frinf/illa borealis of Temminck (but not of VieiUot) is undoubtedly the 

 present species. The diagnosis and the very full description are accurate and 

 pertinent, although the dimensions given (" longueur, cinq ponces"), is below 

 the usual standard. But, while the description is thus applicable to the pre- 

 sent species, the author evidently either considers his bird as quite a different 

 one, viz., the common linaria of Europe and America, or else is in error with 

 regard to the names he quotes as synonyms. For, in giving the synonymy 

 he says : " C'est dans I'une on I'autre de ces livrees tres variables suivant la 

 saison, la Frinf/illa linaria des auteurs tant anciens que modernes, qui out sou- 

 vent confondu les deux especes." He then quotes as synonymous, " La 

 Fringille sizerin," Vieill. (Gal. Ois. 78, pi. 65), and " Le Sizerin boreal," Roux. 

 (Orn. Prov. 165, pis. 101 and 102), both of which refer to the true Fringilla 

 linaria of Linnteus. He also, in a note under /''. linaria, while insisting on the 



1861.] 




390 rROCEEDINQS OF THa ACADEMY OF 



specific identity of A. Unarms and rufescens, says, that — " le Sizeria boreal 

 {Linaria borealis) de Vieillot forme une espece distincte" — from A. rufescens — 

 " identique de mon Gros-bec boreal de I'article precedent, mais auquel on ne 

 doit pas reunir le Sizerin ou le Cabaret des auteurs, deux denominations syno- 

 nymes de mon Gros-bec sizerin ou Fringilla linaria des methodistes ;" clearly 

 mis-identifying Vieillot's bird. In discussing Temminck's names of the ^gi- 

 othi, it must be borne in mind that he sturdily refuses to admit the specific 

 distinction of A. linarius and rufescens. He moreover places as a synonym of 

 his Fringilla borealis, the " Holbolls Leinfink" of Brehm., which later orni- 

 thologists, with what propriety I am unable to say, regard as a distinct 

 species. 



Borealis of Temminck has priority over both canescens Gould, and Horne- 

 manni Holb. ; but as the name was previously applied by Vieillot to the A. 

 linarius, it cannot of course be retained. 



This name borealis has been applied by four authors to as many different 

 species, for neither of which it can stand. Borealis Vieillot, is the A. lina- 

 rius (Linn.) Cab. ; borealis Schlegel, is the A. HoJboUi (Brehm) Cab. ; borealis 

 Temminck, is the A. canescens (Gould) Cab.; while borealis " Temm." of Au- 

 dubon is the A. exilipes Coues. 



Dec. M. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The following pupers were presented for publication : 



A revision of the species of Buculites described in Dr. Morton's 

 Synopsis of the Cretaceous Group of the United States, by Wm. M. 

 Gabb. 



On Squalus Americanus Mitchell, referring it to the genus Odon- 

 taspis Agassiz, by C. C Abbott. 



Descriptions of the lower Silurian, Jurassic, Cretaceous and Tertiary 

 Fossils collected in Nebraska by the Exploring Expedition under the 

 command of Capt. W. F. Raynolds, U. S. Top, Eng., with some remarks 

 on the rocks from which they were obtained, by F. B. Meek and F. V. 

 Hayden, M. D. 



Dec. 10th. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 Descriptions of new Paleozoic Fossils from Kentucky and Indiana, 

 by Sidney S. Lyon. 



On the Mollusoa of Harper's Ferry, Virginia, by George W. Tryon, jr. 



Dec. 17 th. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



A paper was presented for publication, entitled, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Descriptions of three new species of Mollusc^, of the genus Spbjerium, 

 by Temple Prime. 



Dec. 24:th. 

 Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Description of a new Qaadrumanous Mammal, of the genus Midas, 

 by J. H. Slack, M. D. 



Description of new Plants from Texas, by S. B. Buckley. 



On the genera Panolopus, Centropyx, Aristelliger and Sphaerodae- 

 tylus, by P]. D. Cope. 



Descriptions of eleven now species of the genus Unio from the 

 United States, by Isaac Lea. 



Descriptions of seven new species of the genus lo, by Isaac Lea. 



Monograph of the species of Sphaerium of North and South America, 

 by Temple Prime. 



Synopsis of the recent species of Gastrochagnidae, by George W. 

 Tryon. 



Synopsis of the Selaginoids, by Theodore Grill. 



Synopsis of the Notothenioids, by Theodore Gill 



Synopsis of the Harpagiferoids, by Theodore Gill. 



Synopsis of the Chaenichthyoids, by Theodore Gill. 



Dr. Slack presented for examination a Guide to the Collection of the 

 Academy, to be printed for sale at the door of the Academy. 



Dec. 31st. 



Mr. Lea, President, in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



On report of the respective committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed in the Proceedings : — 



Descriptions of Eleven New Species of the genus UNIO from the United States. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio squameus. — Testa laevi, suboblonga, valde compressa, inagquilaterali, 

 postice obtuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice paulisper 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide vel rufo-fusca vel tenebroso- 

 fuscii, striata, inferne squamosa, obsolete radiata; dentibus cardinalibus sub- 

 grandibus, compressis, striatis, in utroque valvule subduplicibus; lateralibus prae- 

 longis, lamellalis, obliquis subrectisque ; margarita alba at valde iridescente. 



Bab. — North Carolina. J. G. Anthony. 



Unio kostrum. — Testa laevl, subtriangulari, ad latere planulata, valdo inaequi- 

 laterali, postice subbiangulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 paulisper crassioribus ; nalibus prominulis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, nigri- 

 cante, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, sulcatis, crenulatis, in utroque 

 valvule duplicibus; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita al- 

 bida et iridescente. 



Ilab — Davidson County, North Carolina. F. A. Genth, M. D. 



1861.] 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Unio contiguus. — Testa laevi, late elliptica, inflata, inaequilaterali, postic^ ob- 

 tuse angulata, antice rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antiee crassioribus ; nati- 

 bu3 subprominentibus ; epLdermide tenebroso-fusca, valde radiata ; deatibus 

 cardinalibus subgrandibus, coinpressis, crenulatis ; lateralibus longis, laraellatia 

 subcurvisque ; maroarita salmonis colore tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Stewart's Mill Dam, UnioQ County, North Carolina. F. A. Genth, M. D. 



Unio Riddbllii. — Testa laevi, subtriangulari, valde inflata, ad umbones tu- 

 mida, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda, subaequilaterali ; valvulis crassis, 

 antice paulisper crassioribus; natibus valde promiuentibus, incurvis, ad apices 

 plicis parvis indutis ; epidermide fusco-oliva, obsolete radiata; dentibus cardi- 

 nalibus parviu^culis, subpyramidatis corrugatisque ; lateralibus crassis, corru- 

 gatis, Curtis subcurvisque; margarita alba et iridescente. 



J7a6.— Dallas, Texas. Prof. C. G. Forshey. 



Unio chuxh. — Testa laevi, triangulari, inflata, ad umbones subtumida, postice 

 obtuse angulata, antice rotunda, subequilaterali ; valvulis subcrassis, antice 

 crassioribus; natibus subprominentibu.^, subincurvis, ad apices paulisper un- 

 dulatis ; epidermide rufo-fusca, obsolete radiata; dentibus cardinalibus sub- 

 grandibus, subcompressis corrugatisque ; lateralibus subcrassis, corrugatis, 

 subcurtis subrectisque ; margarita vel alba vel rosea vel salmonia et valde 

 iridescente. 



^a6.— Dallas, Texas. Prof. C. G. Forshey. 



Unio Heebmannii. — Testa alata, laevi, elliptica, compressa, valde inaequilaterali, 

 postice obtuse biangulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subtenuibus, antice irre- 

 gulariter crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, vix undulatis ; epidermide luteo- 

 fusca, micanti, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, subconicis, crenulatis, 

 in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subrectisque; mar- 

 garita pallido-salmona, purpurescente et intense iridescente. 



Hab. — Medina River, Texas. A. L. Heermann, M. D. 



Unio tesserul,e. — Testa Itevi, quadrata, cuboidea, valde tumidS., valde inaequi- 

 laterali, po3tice obtuse angulata, antice truncaia ; valvulis crassis, ad apices 

 rugoso-undulatis ; epidermide mellea, mican'.i, radiis interuptis indutis ; den- 

 tibus cardinalibus parviusculis, /subconicis corrugatisque; lateralibus curtis, 

 obliquis rectisque ; margarita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Nolachucky River, Tenn. J. G. Anthony. 



Unio Northamptonensis. — Testd lasvi, oblonga, valde compressa, ad latere pla- 

 nulata, postice obtuse biangulari, antice oblique rotundata, valde inaequilaterali ; 

 valvulis subcrassis, antice crassioribus; natibus prominulis; epidermide vel 

 ocbracea vel luteo-fusca. oblique radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, striatis, 

 in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus praelongis, validis, corrugatis, sub- 

 rectis lameliatisque; margarita vel alba vel purpurascente vel salmonis colore 

 tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Connecticut River, at Northampton. At Springfield, by L. Shurtleff, 

 M. D. Below Hartford, T. R. Ingalls, M. D. Neuse River, N. C, E. Emmons, M, D. 



Unio Wardii. — Testa tuberculata, subtriangulari, compressa, subaequilaterali, 

 postice et inferne emarginata, antice rotunda ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 crassioribus; natibus prominulis, ad apices rugosis ; epidermide vel luteold vel 

 luteo-virente, maculis triangularis indutis ; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandi- 

 bus, compressis sulcatisque; lateralibus sublongis, subcrassis, obliquis rec- 

 tisque; marjiarita argentea, interdum rosea et iridescente. 



Hab. — Walhonding River, Ohio, J. C. Ward. Wassepinicon River, Iowa, Dr. 

 Foreman. Coal River, Virginia, Dr. Hartman. 



Unio Sampsonii. — Testa laevi, oblonga, inflata, ad umbones valde tumida, 

 postice emarginata, antice rotunda, valde in^quilaterali ; valvulis crassis, an- 



[Bec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 393 



tice paulispercragsioribus ; natibus prominentibiis, tumidis, incurvig, ad apices 

 vix undulatis ; epidermide luteola, radiis viridis vestitis ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 Bubgrandibus, erectis corrugatisque ; lateralibas crassis. curtis, corrugatis sub- 

 rectisque ; raargarita argentea. et pauUsper iridesceate. 



Hab. — Wabash River, New Harmonj-, Indiana. James Sampson. 



Unio vestitds. — Testa laevi, elliptica, compressa, inaequilaterali, postice ob- 

 tuse angulata, antice rotunda; valvulis subtenuibus, antice paulisper crassior-i- 

 bus ; natibus prominulis; epidermide vel lutea vel luteo-fusca, poli-ta, radiis 

 obliquis viridis vestitis ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis, •cuminatig, 

 crenulatis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus sublongis, lamellatis, 

 subobliqais corrugatisque; raargarita albida et splendide iridescente. 



Hab. — Ogechee River, Georgia. Major Le Conte and J. G. Anthony. 



Descriptions of Seven New Species of the Genus 10. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



When I proposed in 1831* to form the new genus To for Mr. Say's Fusiis 

 fluviatilis, there were no other allied species known to naturalists. I then pro- 

 posed also to change the specific name lo fusiformis, as being more appropriate, 

 and I gave a figure under this name. At that time the canons of nomenclature 

 were not so well understood nor so strict as they have since been ; and it is 

 only justice to Mr. Say to relinquish my specific name, and to replace his. Sub- 

 sequently in 1834, I proposed a new species under the name of lo spinosa, 

 (Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, vol. v. pi. 19, fig. 79.) More recently Mr. Anthony, in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy, (I860,) proposed four new species ; three of 

 which I think belong to the two previously established species. Mr. Lovell 

 Reeve, in his beautiful " Conchologia Iconica," has recently issued among his 

 monographs one of the genus lo with numerous plates and full descriptions. 

 In this he has introduced a number of species, most of which I think more ap- 

 propriately belong to Prof. Haldeman's genus Liikasia — the species of which 

 form a very excellent group, which he separated from Melania and Anculosa — 

 but which Mr. Reeve does not seem to recognise. Of the true lo I also think 

 he has considered several varieties as species. 



lo NODos.^. — Testa tuberculata, elevato-conica, virido-corned, vittata ; spira 

 regulariter conica; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus instar denis, planula- 

 tis, medio tuberculatis, infia striatis; apertura pirviuscnla, rhomboidea, intu« 

 vittatS,; labro acuto etsigmoideo ; columella alba et valde contorta; canali bre- 

 viuscula. 



Hub. — Tennessee River, Alabama?! Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



lo ROBUSTA. — Testa canaliculata, paulisper tuberculata, elevato-conica, pal- 

 lido-cornea, infra obsolete vittata; spira regulariter conica,; suturis valde im- 

 pressis; anfractibus instar denis, apud apicem planulatis, infra canaliculata ; 

 apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus vittata; labro acuto et sigraoideo ; co- 

 lumella pallido-salmonia; canali breviuscula. 



Hab. — Tennessee River, Alabama? Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



To VARIABILIS. — Testa laevi, elevato-conoidea, subfusiformi, vel vittata vel in- 

 tense purpurea vel virente ; spira regulariter conoidea ; suturis leviter im- 

 pressis ; anfractibus instar novenis, planulatis, in medio angulatis ; apertura 

 elongato-rhomboidea ; labro acuto et sinuoso ; columella vel albida vel purpu- 

 rea et valde contorta; canali attenuato-constricta. 



Hab. — Tennessee River, Alabama? Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



* Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, January, 1831. 



t Dr. Spillman simply gave Tennessee River as the habitat of these species, but did 

 not mention what part. They are probably from Alabama. 



1861.] 




391 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lo MODESTA. — Testa Isevi, conica, virido-cornea ; spira regulariter conica ; 

 sutiiris impressis ; anfractibus novenis, planulatis, in medio angulatis ; aper- 

 tura parva, regulariter rhomboidea; labro acuto et sinuoso ; columella alb& 

 et valle contorta ; canali curta et effusa. 



Hub. — Tennessee River, Alabama. Wra. Spillman, M. D. 



lo Spillmanii. — Testa laevi, attenuato-conica, palUdo-cornea ; spira regulari- 

 ter coaica, superne striata; suturis leviter impressis; anfractibus instar denis, 

 planulatis, in medio obtuse angulatis ; apertura parva, rhomboidea ; labro 

 acuto et sinuoso; columella alba et valde contorta; canali curta et subeifusa. 



Ilab. — Tennessee River, Alabama? Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



To GRACILIS. — Testa laevi, coaica, pallido-purpurea ; spira regulariter conica ; 

 suturis regulariter impressis; anfractibus instar novenis, planulatis, in medio 

 angulatis; apertura parviuscula, rhcnboidea; labro acuto et sinuoso; colu- 

 mella pallido-purpurea, valde contorta et deflecta ; canali curta et late effusa. 



Hah. — Coosa River, Alabama, Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



lo viuiDDLA. — Testa laevi, cylindrico-conoidea, virente ; spira subelevata; 

 suturis parura impressis; anfractibus instar novenis, planulatis, in medio ob- 

 tuse angulatis ; aperturi parviuscula, rhomboidea ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; colu- 

 mella ad basim purpurea, parum contona; canali curta et dilatata. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama. Wm. Spillman, M. D. 



A Bevision of tlie species of BACULITES, described in Dr. Slorton's " Syaopsia 

 of the Cretaceous Group of the United States." 



BY W. M. GABB. 



In the above mentioned work, Dr. Morton described six species of BacuUtes, 

 two of which (B. compressus and B. ovatus) had been previouslr 

 characterized and named by Say. All of these species were published with 

 very short and meagre descriptions, although the illustrations were pretty ac- 

 curate ; the original specimens, however, are still preserved in the Museum of 

 the Academy, and from them I have been enabled to arrive at tolerably satis- 

 factory results, in the determination of the true relations of the several forms. 



Mr. Say's species have been elaborately described and figured by Messrs. 

 Hall and Meek in the Transactions of the American Academy of Arts and 

 Sciences of Boston, vol. v. 2d series. I shall therefore not refer to them 

 again, further than to say that they are very distinct from the species with 

 which I am now occupied. 



Baculites labyrinthicus Morton, Syn. p. 44, pi. 13, fig. 10. 



This is probably the only form among those described by Dr. Morton which 

 is entitled to rank as a valid species, unless B. columna should prove to 

 be distinct from B. carinatus = B. anceps. 



Sp. char. B. testa compressiuscula, tuberculis serie duplici positis, dorso 

 subacute, ventre plana, apertura incognita ; septis lobatis. 



Shell subcompressed, section rounded, pentagonal ; dorsum acute ; ventral 

 side flattened, bounded by a row of subacute nodes on each side ; midway be- 

 tween each of these nodes and the dorsum is another one of about the same 

 size. Longitudinally between the nodes, the surface is slightly excavated; 

 laterally, the excavation is almost invisible. Septum ; dorsal lobe broader 

 than the dorsal saddle, not so long as the superior lateral lobe, deeply exca- 

 vated by a broad sinus in the middle, on each side of which extends a branch 

 which is separated into one large and one small fork, the inner or largest one 

 being trifurcate, above the outer one there is another smaller process, dorsal 

 saddle divided for more than half its length by a long serrate process, each 



[Deo. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



branch of the saddle being bilobate ; superior lateral lobe one-fourth longer 

 than the dorsal lobe ; extremity divided into two very long slender parallel 

 branches, the one on the dorsal side trifurcate, the other simply serrate and 

 sometimes curved towards the other ; above these on each side are two 

 smaller processes, the upper one smallest, and those on the dorsal side some- 

 what larger ; superior lateral saddle wider than the dorsal, of the same gene- 

 ral form, except that the dorsal side is widest ; lateral lobe about half as 

 large as the superior lateral, bifurcate at the extremity and with one simple 

 process above on each side ; lateral saddle simple, divided at the extremity 

 and not so large as the lobe ; inferior lateral lobe about as large as the pre- 

 ceding saddle, serrate on the sides and bifurcate at the end ; ventral saddle 

 jjroader than the lateral, about as long and somewhat more profusely lobed, 

 but not so distinctly ; ventral lobe small, trifurcate at the end, and with two 

 or three uniform processes at the sides. 



PI. iii. fig. 1 illustrates the septum and a section of this species taken from the 

 specimen figured by Dr. Morton, loc. cit. PI. 13, f. 10. 



This species can be at once distinguished by its distinct pentagonal form and 

 the two rows of tubercles, one at the edge of the ventral face, the other half 

 way between these and the dorsum. 



Dimensions. — Width, •? in. ; diameter in the middle, "5 in. ; width across 

 the nodes on the ventral side, '4 in.; width of same between the nodes, '3 in. ; 

 distance longitudinally between the nodes, -5 in. These measurements may 

 vary slightly in different individuals, but are correct for Morton's original 

 specimen. 

 Baculites ancep s Lam., An. S. Vert. t. 7, p. 648, No. 2. 



B. VPTtebralis Defr., D. Sc. Nat. t. 3, Sup. p. 160. 



B. dissimilis Desm., Jour, de Phys. t. 85, p. 48, No. 3, pi. 2, f. 4 — 6. 



B. vertebral is Blainv., Malac. pi. 12. 



B. Faujasii Haan, Monog, Am. et Goniat. p. 155, No. 2. 



B. dissimilis Haan, id. 155, No. 3. 



B. anceps d'Orb., Desh., Brown, Hisinger et auct. 



B. carinutus Mort., Synopsis, p. 44, pi. 13, f. 1. 



B. asper Mort., id. p. 43, pi. 1, f. 12, 13, and pi. 13, fig. 2. 



B. Tippaensis Con. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 2d ser., vol. iii. p. 334, pi. 35, 

 fig. 27. 



B. Spillmavnii Con., id. p. 335, pi. 35, fig. 24. 



B. testa compressiuscula, laevi, transversim undata. vel tuberculata, dorso 

 subacuto vel obtuso, ventre crassiore obtuso ; apertnra obliquata, supra elon- 

 gata, acuta, lateribns sinuata ; angulo, 6* ; septis lobatis. 



Shell subcompressed, section variable, sometimes nearly circular or ovoid, 

 at others strongly pyriform. Dorsum subacute, marked by a flattened bian- 

 gular ridge broadly rounded or undulated ; ventrum always broad, regularly 

 rounded. Sides smooth, marked by faint undulations, parallel with the bor- 

 der of the mouth or by large crescentic or triangular nodes, the apex always 

 downwards. Septum : dorsal lobe about as wide as dorsal saddle, deeply 

 emarginate in the middle, each branch with about three serrations internally 

 and one or two externally ; above the latter there are two or three processes ; 

 dorsal saddle divided in the middle, the process on the dorsal side, trilobate, 

 the other bilobate ; superior lateral lobe smaller than the dorsal, divided at 

 the extremity into two compound processes, with two or three smaller ones 

 above on the dorsal side, and one less on the ventral side ; superior lateral 

 saddle as wide or wider than the dorsal and marked in a similar manner ; late- 

 ral lobe like the superior lateral but smaller ; ventral saddle small, simple 

 and trilobate ; ventral lobe smaller than the corresponding saddle, trifurcate 

 at the extremity and with two small processes above. 



It will be seen that, notwithstanding the apparently great external diflfer- 



1861.] 




396 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



ence between the form described by Defrance as B. vertebralis, and Dr. Mor- 

 ton's B. asper (or B. Spilhnannii Con.), still there is no character by means of 

 which we can satisfactorily separate them. PI. iii. finr. 2 is from the European 

 form ; figure 3 is from a young individual of Morton's carinatus, which is the 

 same as the variety figured by d'Orbigny ; figure 4 is from one of Morton's 

 original specimens of B. asper, which is characterized by a broad dorsum and 

 large triangular nodes. B. Spillmannii Con. is a distinct link between the 

 variety asper and the undulated form ; the nodes on Mr. Conrad's specimen 

 of that species being elongated into prominent crescents. Between that and 

 the rougher forms of Morton's carinatus, (the typical variety of B. anceps), it 

 is impossible to draw a dividing line. Again, some of Dr. Morton's speci- 

 mens of this last named species are perfectly smooth, while others are so 

 rough that when I thought that distinct from B. asper, I did not know to 

 which species to refer them. Mr. Conrad's Tippaensis is the typical form of 

 B- carinatus of Morton. 



We have now but one other form left, and to ascertain positively its rela- 

 tions, will require a larger series of specimens than I have yet seen. I refer 

 to B. coJumna Morton, Syn., p. 44, pi. 19, fig. 8. This species was described 

 by Dr. Morton from half a dozen fragments of about an inch in length. I have 

 been unable to discover any trace of a septum in any of them. They are 

 elliptical to ovate, and marked rounded, sinuous ribs which cross the dorsum, 

 pass downwards at a slight angle to about the middle of the side where they 

 curve and then run transversely around the ventrum. The angle at which 

 these ribs bend upwards from the middle to the dorsum is not more than half 

 as much as in the preceding species, but in one or two specimens I have detect- 

 ed another series, of lines which maybe lines of growth, and which would 

 give the mouth much the shape of that in B. anceps. Dr. Morton's illustra- 

 tion of this form is almost utterly worthless. He represents the ribs separated 

 at too great distance, and much too distinct. This direction is also incorrect ; 

 they should bend twice as abruptly from the middle toward the widest end, 

 on the side nearest the figure of Rostellaria pennata, which is the dorsal side, 

 and should be less distinct towards the ventrum, since on that side they are 

 sometimes almost obliterated. It is by no means improbable that this is 

 merely the young of one of the many varieties of B. anceps. It is certainly 

 not a Hamite as d'Orbigny suggested in his Prodrome de Paluontologie Strati- 

 graphique. 



On the MoUusca of Harper's Ferry, Virginia. 



BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



In the month of June, 1859, I was called by business to Harper's Ferry, and 

 while there, having a very brief period of leisure at my disposal, I employed 

 it in making a collection of the shells of the vicinity. I was struck at the 

 time with the exceeding abundance of these, both in individuals and species, 

 and also by the prevalence of certain external characters, much more promi- 

 nently marked, than in the same shells from the vicinity of Philadelphia. 

 These peculiarities, on a recent re-inspection of the shells, have appeared to 

 me worthy of mention ; and the subject of geographical distribution may re- 

 ceive some new light from the publication of a list of the MoUusca of the 

 mountainous region of Virginia. The species collected are as follows : 



GASTEROPODA. 



Melaniad^. 



These shells were ntimerous upon the rocks in the bed of the Potomac, just 

 below the junction of the Shenandoah River, and at the U. S. Rifle Armory 

 on the latter stream. 



[Dec. 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 397 



Melania V i r g i n i c a, Gmelin, sp. — The whorls well rounded, and entire to 

 the apex. Frequently smooth, but the carinated varieties more abundant ; 

 {M, multilineata Say) ; on these, the carinse, varying from three or four to 

 eighteen on the body whorl, are raised and sharp, and on the more crowded 

 ones, the interstices are densely striated by the longitudinal lines of growth. 

 All the specimens are distinctly banded with brown. Length reaching 1"5 

 inches. 



Leptoxis i s o g o n a, Say. Three specimens found. 



L. dent at a, Couthouy, Very numerous. Epidermis generally a rather 

 brilliant green. Transverse brown bands, two near the base, and one near the 

 suture. 



L. nigrescens, Conrad. Numerous. Inhabiting with L. dentata. 



L. carinata, De Kay. Very abundant. The carina is prominent and 

 sharp, giving the shell a trochiform appearance. Color light horn, with faint 

 revolving brown bands. 



RlSSOID^. 



Amnicola 1 i m o s a , Say. Exceedingly abundant. 



VlVIPAEIDiE. 



Vivipara d e c i s a , Say. Rare. Epidermis distinctly striate, with im- 

 pressed spiral lines. 



Valvatid^. 



Valvata tricarinata. Say. Very numerous, but not so much so as the 

 variety bicarinata, Lea. A few specimens of the smooth variety simplex were 

 gathered. None of the individuals collected had attained more than one- 

 eighth inch diameter. 



HeLICIDjE. 



The towering wooded hills on the south side of the Potomac and Shenan- 

 doah, are thickly inhabited by Pulmonates. Every projecting rock which 

 arrests the downward course of the mountain torrents, has gathered around 

 its base numbers of dead shells, which are found in all stages of preservation. 

 In some places, where well protected, these shells actually lay in heaps. In a 

 decayed log by the water side, nearly one hundred specimens of Helix and 

 Pupa were obtained. A close search on the hills on the north side of the Po- 

 tomac failed to discover a single species of Helix or Pupa. 



Helix a 1 b 1 a b r i s , Say. Diameter 1*25 inch. Spire rather depressed, 

 and aperture sub-triangular. Reflected lip very broad and flat, with a ten- 

 dency to form a tooth-like lamina near the umbilical region. Stride coarse 

 and crowded. 



H. t h y r o i d e s, Say. A few specimens obtained. 



H. m o n d o n, Rackett. This species appears to be rare at Harper's Ferry. 

 I found but one individual. 



H. hirsuta, Say. Common. All that were collected are entirely desti- 

 tute of the hairy epidermis. There is considerable difference in the convexity 

 of the upper surface, the spire being sometimes rather depressed. 



H. concava. Say. Dr. Binney, in his "Terrestrial Mollusks," states 

 that the upper and lower extremities of the lip are united in this species by a 

 thin callus on the columella. In the single specimen found by me, the callus 

 is very prominent. 



H. profunda, Say. Numerous. Attaining quite a large size, and with 

 close, narrow, raised striae. But one brown revolving band is visible, 



H. pulchella, Muller. Rare. 

 1861.] 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



H. tridentata, Say. In many of the specimens collected, the spire is 

 scarcely at all elevated, and in one or two the upper surface id quite plane. 

 Very common. 



H. labyrinthica, Say . 



H. c h e r s i n a, Say. I discovered a very large number of H. chersina and 

 labyrinthica in the old log previously alluded to. 



H. 1 i n e a t a, Say. 



H. a r b r e a, Say. 



H. indentata. Say. 



Pupa armifera, Say. Exceedingly abundant. 



P. contract a, Say. Three specimens obtained. 



Bulimus m arginatus , Say. Very numerous. The reflected lip is 

 larger in proportion than in Philadelphia specimens. 



No specimens of Succinea were obtained. 



Limnaea d e c i d i o s a, Say. I found somi hundred? of this species on the 

 rocks at the junction of the Potomac and Shenandoah Rivers. 



L. colu m ella, (Sa^. Rather abundant. Specimens small size. 



L. catascopium, Say. Rare. Three or four obtained. 



Physa heterostropha, Say. One specimen. 



Planorbis le ntus, Say. One specimen found. 



P. trivolvis, Say. Numerous, but not attaining a large size. 



P. b i c a r i n a t u s, Say. Very abundant ; much more so than the pre- 

 ceding species. The cariuae, as in all the other fresh water moUusca from 

 this locality, are very prominent and sharp. 



P. parvus, Say. A few individuals were procured. 



P. exacutus. Say. Rare. Five or six only were found. 



Ancylus rivularis, Say. One specimen only, obtained from V. decisa, 

 to the body whorl of which it was attached. 



CONCHIFERA. , 



CYRENIDiE. 



Sphjerium sulcatum, Lam. A very few specimens were found ; the 

 rocky bed of the river being probably unfavorable to the multiplication of 

 bivalve shells. Those obtained possessed the same rugose epidermis which 

 seems to distinguish all the shells from this locality. 



Unionid^. 



Unio c a r i s u s, Say. This species attains a large size in the Potomac 

 River ; the individuals are not numerous, however, at Harper's Ferry. The 

 paucity of the Unionid;e is remarkable in a region where the Gasteropoda, both 

 terrestrial and fluviatile, are so abundant. 



U. complanatus, Solander, (species. ) Valves very thin and shallow, 

 with the epidermis growing beyond their margins. The surface brilliant 

 green in the young shell, and brown in the adult. Not one specimen in ten 

 exhibits any green rays, even in young specimens. 



U. F i s h e r i an XI s, Lea. Several good specimens taken. 



U. n as u t u s, Say. This species, like U. complanatus, very seldom exhibits 

 a rayed surface. 



U. o c h r a c e n s, Say. A single individual obtained. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



U. radiatus, Lam. Beautiful specimens occur on the Potomac, with a 

 light green polished epidermis, with broad dark rays, and frequently pencilled 

 rays in the intermediate spaces. 



Margaritana undulata. Say. (Sp.) Very rare. Nacre delicate pink, 

 epidermis in adult shells jet black, much eroded at the beaks. 



M. marginata, Say. (Sp.) I collected a number of specimens. They 

 were all of small size. Epidermis in the young shells elegantly rayed. 



Anodonta fluviatilis, Dillwyn.{Sp.) A few individuals were taken ; their 

 surface is almost a uniform dall brown, vastly inferior in beauty to thos^> 

 from the vicinity of Philadelphia. 



A. implicata. Say. One specimen. 



A. edentula. Say. One perfect young shell, and several larger odd 

 valves were taken ; they exhibit the same uniformity of color as A. fluviatilis. 



The above shells were all collected within the space of two hours, such was 

 their great abundance. A more prolonged search would doubtless add a few 

 more species to the list, particularly among the smaller terrestrial shells. The 

 Molluscous fauna of Harper's P'erry is distinguished for the development of 

 heavy lines of growth and acute prominent carinae on the shells of the spe- 

 cies ; and in the terrestrial shells, by the depression of the spire. It is strange 

 that a climate which has evidently exercised some influence on the growth of 

 the Mollusca, has still permitted a vast multiplication of individuals. 



On 8QUALUS AMEEICANTJS, Mitchell, referring it to the Genus 

 ODONTASPIS, Agassiz. 



BY CHAS. CONRAD ABBOTT. 



In his " Report in part of the Fishes of New York," Dr. S. L. Mitchill makes 

 mention of a species of shark, under the title of Squalns Americanus, with the 

 suggestive note, "Caught almost every summer at the very wharves of New 

 York, ten or more feet long." 



Again, nearly a year afterwards, (Dec. 8th, 1814,) in the Trans, of the Lit. 

 and Phil. Soc. of New York, vol. 1 , p. 483, he mentions and partially describes, 

 under the same name, this species, as follows : — 



"Squalus Americanus. Long-toothed Shark. With oblong sharp teeth, each 

 of which has a little one on each side, at its base. 



This fish is occasionally taken at the very city of New York. He, when he 

 comes, frequents a certain place near the great market, on account of the dead 

 fish and offal thrown into the water there. When the people see one of these 

 sharks prowling about, they bait a hook with a piece of meat or a fish, and 

 not unfrequently catch him. 



The teeth of this species are found abundantly in the alluvial country of 

 North America. They are particularly met with in digging wells near the 

 Potomac and James Rivers. On the former, they are found as high as Alex- 

 andria ; and on the latter, in the city of Richmond itself. The long, sharp, 

 narrow tooth, almost resembling a horse-shoe nail, with its two little auxili- 

 aries, is very plain and characteristic. This I know, by comparing the fossil 

 Virginian species in my possession with those in the jaws of sharks taken at 

 New York. 



The mouth of one that was killed during the summer of 1813, was nearer 

 the snout than in many other species. Both jaws had five rows of teeth in 

 front. They were nearly an inch long and not jagged at the sides. Some of 

 them have the rudiments of little teeth on each side, at the base." 



For a third time, in the American Monthly Magazine, vol. 2, p. 328, Dr. 

 Mitchill somewhat describes it, proposing for the species the specific appella- 



1861.] 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tion " macrodus ^' as a substitute for "Americanus;^^ but the former quoted 

 description is sufficient to determine positively the intended species, and hav- 

 ing three years priority, the specific name must be retained. 



The article in the American Monthly Magazine we have not been able to ex- 

 amine. 



In the Museum of the Academy, there is preserved a specimen, mounted, 

 and somewhat distorted ; and a set of jaws, belonging to the same species, 

 which, if it were not for the descriptions of Mitchill, would be considered non- 

 descript ; as the specimens present certain characteristics of dentition not ex- 

 hibited by any heretofore well defined species of our coast, although in perfect 

 correspondence with the dentition of Odontaspis taurus, 0. ferox, and Lamnia 

 cornubica ; but as none of the above mentioned three sharks are known to be 

 inhabitants of our coast, and as Eugomphodus griseus, to which the description 

 of Mitchill might be possibly referred, difl'ers in the dentition from Odontaspis 

 Americanus, by the dentulures being vaguely defined prominences instead of 

 sharply defined basal teeth, which is emphatically dwelt upon by Mitchill, it 

 is evident that the Squalus Americanus, Mitchill, is the species that is described 

 in detail in this paper, and which, belonging to the genus Odontaspis, Agassiz, 

 will hereafter be so referred. 



In the " Recherches sur les Poissons fossiles," tome 3d, p. 287, Professor 

 Agassiz established a sub-genus from Lamna, Cuv., under the title Odontaspis, 

 for the reception of two species, Odontaspis taurus and 0. ferox. This sub- 

 genus he characterized as follows : — 



Les dents de Lamna sont plates et se rapprochent par leur forme des dents 

 d' Otodus ; dont elles different cependant par leur moindre largeur et par leurs 

 cones latereux beaucoup plus petites. Les dents d' Odontaspis, au contraire, 

 sont plus cylindriques, plus tordues, et ont des cones latereux plus long et 

 plus pointus. 



Miiller and Henle* have raised the sub-genus, framed by Agassiz, to the rank 

 of a genus, giving as its characters, 



Ouvertures branchiales grandes, toutes situees en avant des pectorales. 

 Eventes tns petites. Second dorsale et anale grandes. Lobe superior de la 

 caudale allonge comme dans les carcharias. Fossette caudale indistinct ou 

 manquent completement. Les carenes de la queue des Lamnies manquent.f 



The specimen in the Academy's Museum, to which we consider the descrip- 

 tions of Mitchill applicable and belonging, is included in the scope of the above 

 generic diagnoses ; and the affinities of the specimen are as inclusively com- 

 prehended in the enumerations of the characters of Odontaspis, in this, the 

 third species of the genus, as its specific variances are distinctly exhibited, 

 from either 0. taurus or 0. ferox. 



Odontaspis Americanus, Abb. 



iSqualus Americanus, Mitch. Rep. in part of Fishes of New York, p. 27. 

 Squalus Americanus, Mitch. Trans. Phil, and Lit. Soc. of N. Y. p. 488. 

 Squalus macrodus, Mitch. Amer. Month. Mag. vol. 2, p. 328. 

 Squalus Americanus, De Kay, Fishes of New York, p. 366. 

 Squalus Americanus, Storer, Synop. Fishes of North America, p. 

 Squalus Americanus, Gill. Cat. Fishes of East Coast of N. Amer. in Proc. Acad. 

 N. S., Philad. 1861, p. 60. 

 Head broader and blunter than in Odontaspis taurus. The extremity of the 

 snout approximates to three times as far in advance of the anterior margin of 

 the orbit, as the posterior margin of the orbit is anterior to the angle of the 

 mouth. The nostrils are situated well forward and near the extremity of the 



* System. Besch. der Plagiostomen. 



tRecher. sur les Pois. foss., tome 3, p 287. — Foot note. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



upper jaw. The margin of the upper jaw is somewhat distinctly defined, but 

 not as prominently as in Odontaspis taurus, according to the figure given by 

 Miiller and Henle. Tlie pointed, protruding snout resembles in outline, but 

 is much less prominent than in Eugomphodus griseus, which is the nearest 

 allied species found on our coast. 



A ready point of difference with which to distinguish the Odontaspis Ameri- 

 canus from Engomphodus griseus, is the position of the second dorsal, which in 

 the former, is anterior to, and in the latter, posterior to the anal fin. 



Teeth, with a single toothlet on either side, but one occasionally wanting. 



The first tooth in the upper and lower jaws, smaller than the adjoining 

 teeth ; then follow, in the upper jaw, on each side, two very long teeth ; at 

 either side of these, another pair of somewhat smaller teeth ; then two teeth 

 increase somewhat in length, then the remainder gradually decrease. 



In the under jaw from the first pair, the teeth decrease gradually. 



The fins generally are similar to those of Odontaspis taurus, except the caudal 

 fin, which is very much shorter and broader. 



The posterior margin of the first dorsal in Odontaspis taurus, the nearest 

 allied species, is posterior to the anterior margin of the ventrals, but in Odon- 

 taspis Americanus, the first dorsal is in advance of the ventrals, a distance 

 equal to about half the length of the base of the first dorsal. The same dif- 

 ference exists with reference to the second dorsal and anal, with this species 

 and Odontaspis taurus. 



The head and body, the former especially, are somewhat shrunken and dis- 

 torted by the mounting — but the measurements will be found nearly correct. 

 Those measurements unattainable are marked approximating. 



Total length 105 inches. 



Tip of snout to nostril, approximating 5 " 



Nostril to mouth, approximating SJ " 



Mouth to anus, approximating 60 " 



Anus to anal fin, approximating 12 " 



Base of anal fin b^ " 



Anterior margin of anal fin 5^ " 



Anal to caudal fin 3| " 



Length of caudal fin, ant. inser. to extremity 22 " 



Anterior margin of under flap of caudal B\ " 



From pectoral to ventral 25^ " 



Post. bord. of pec. to ant. bord. of first dorsal 25 " 



Base of first dorsal 7|- " 



Anterior margin of first dorsal 8 " 



Post, margin of first dorsal to ant. margin of ventrals 11| " 



Base of second dorsal 5| " 



Anterior margin of second dorsal 7 " 



Base of ventrals 8^ " 



Anterior margin of ventrals 6| " 



Distance between nostrils, approximating 3 " 



Width of mouth, angle to angle 9| " 



Margin of upperjaw 17| " 



Margin of lower jaw 13 " 



The specimen described was taken off " Beesley's Point," coast of New 

 Jersey, by Messrs. R. Stites, S. Ashmead and Dr. Leidy. 



According to Dr. Mitchill, this shark was at one time, one of the most 

 abundant species, but at present, judging from the fact of the species remain- 

 ing so long undetermined, it must be a rare representative of the Squalida 

 on the Eastern Coast of North America. 



1861.] 27 




•402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Monograph of the Species of SPH^RIUM of North and South America, 

 BY TEMPLE PRIME. 



The genus Sphserium was characterized under its present name by Scopoli, 

 in 1777 ; since that time, however, it has received various denominations, 

 and the one under vrhich it has been most generally known, that of Cyclas, 

 was applied to it in 1792 by Bruguiere. Mr. Gray revived the term of Sphse- 

 rium in 1847, and his example has been followed by the conchologists of the 

 continent of Europe. I was the first in this country to discard the name of 

 Cyclas for that of Sphferium. 



The species composing this genus are small bivalves inhabiting rivers, 

 lakes, streams, and still waters ; they are plentifully distributed all over the 

 globe, but as far as present experience goes, seem to be more abundant on 

 the northern portion of this hemisphere than elsewhere. 



The shell is transversely oval, nearly equilateral, thin, fragile, sometimes 

 translucent, with beaks more or less raised ; its entire surface is transversely 

 striated and covered with a light epidermis varying in color ; the margins are 

 rounded, obtuse or angular. The interior of the valves is smooth and varies 

 in color ; the muscular impressions are not very distinct ; the posterior one 

 is slightly the largest ; the palleal impression is parallel with the basal mar- 

 gin ; it is narrow and always simple. The hinge margin is very variable ; it 

 is usually composed of two small teeth in each valve ; at times, however, they 

 are single in one and double in the other, or else single in both valves ; these 

 teeth are occasionally rudimentary, or even nearly obsolete. The lateral 

 teeth placed on each side of the cardinal teeth are double in the right valve 

 and single in the left one ; the anterior lateral tooth is usually the shorter. 

 The ligament is external ; it is short, not very conspicuous, and is alway.' 

 found on the longer portion of the shell. 



The animal of Sphserium has a broad foot, capable of considerable exten- 

 sion ; it uses it either to bore holes in the mud, in which it sinks the poste- 

 rior portion of the shell, or as means of locomotion. The syphonal tube is 

 double and very retractile ; it is often white like the foot but at times it is 

 colored. 



The habits of these molluscs are very similar to those of Pisidium, with 

 which they are often found living. The species of Sphaerium are less abun- 

 dant in individuals than those of Pisidium ; they are also less generally dis- 

 tributed, and are more confined to certain localities than the latter. 



Fam. CYCLADES Fer. 

 SPH^RIUM Scopoli. 



PecUinadus, Lister, 1G85. Miisculus, Gault. 1742. Tellina, Linn., 1758. 

 Sphoerium, Scop., 1777. Cardium, Da Costa, 1778. Cyclas, Brug., 1782. Nux, 

 Humphr., 1797. Musculium, Link. 1807. Cornea, Pisum, Megerle. 1811. 

 Corneoajclas, Fer., 1818. Amesoda, Rafin., 1820. Pisidium, Verany, 1846." 

 Cycladites, Krug, 1848. 



Generic characters. Animal oval, lobes of the mantle simple, united poste- 

 riorly, and terminating in two short syphons, joined at their base, without 

 tentacles ; mouth oval shaped, small ; tentacles of the mouth short and nar- 

 row ; gills rather broad, nearly equal, united behind the foot ; foot narrow, 

 elongated. 



Shell oval, nearly equilateral ; beaks somewhat inflated and prominent ; 

 hinge margin narrow, with two primary teeth in each valve ; lateral teeth 

 elongated ; palleal impression simple ; ligament external, narrow, situated on 

 the longer poitiou of the shell. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Description of species.* 

 a. — Species witlx rounded but not protuberant beaks. 

 1. Sph. sulcatum, Lam. 



Cyclas sulcata, Lam., An. s. vert. v. 560, 1818. 

 C. Saratogea, Lam., loe. sub. cit. v. 560, 1818. 

 C. similis, Say, Nich. Eucycl. Amer. edit. ix. pL 1, fig. 9, 1818. 

 C. lasmampsls, Rafin., II. scie. Phys. ix. 319, pi. 82, f. 19, 20, 1S20. 

 C. sollda, DeKay, Kept. 220, pi. xxv. f. 265, 1842. 

 C. gigantea, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 157, 1851. 

 C. ponderosa, Prime, loc. sub. cit. iv. 157, 1851. 

 C. striatina, Lam., Per. in Mag. ZooL, 1835. 

 C. rhornboidea, Say, C. B. Adams, Vermont cat. 18, 1842. 

 Animal white, tubes a light orange color. 



Shell transversely oval, nearly equilateral, light in texture for its size ; pos- 

 terior margin somewhat more pointed ; anterior rounded, base slightly curved; 

 valves convex ; beaks full, raised above tlie outline of the shell ; posterior 

 portion a little longer ; sulcations coarse, regular ; epidermis dai'k cliestnut 

 brown ; interior light blue ; hinge margin narrow, nearly a straight line ; 

 cardinal teeth small, indistinct, situated somewhat towards the anterior side, 

 double in both valves, and so placed as to assume the shape of the letter V 

 reversed ; lateral teeth on a line with the primary teeth, large, strong and 

 prominent. 



The young is more equilateral than the adult ; more comiiressed ; it pre- 

 sents the shape of a quadrilateral, it is of a light lemon color, the striations 

 are as heavy as those of the mature shell. 

 Long. 11-16 ; lat. 71-61 ; diam. 5-16 inches. 



Hab. North America, in the New England States, and in the States of 

 New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin and Ala- 

 bama. 



(Cabinet Acad, of Nat. Sci. of Phila., Garden of Plants in Paris, Mus. De- 

 lessert. Jay, Prime and others.) 



This, our most common and widely distributed species, living as it does in 

 so many different sections of the country, presents at times great variations 

 in size, color and general appearance. It can, however, be easily recognized 

 by its very elongated and equilateral form, and by the beaks which are uni- 

 formly full and convex ; they are often eroded. The young is often of an 

 uniform light lemon color, which, as the shell matures, becomes gradually 

 darker from the beaks downwards until the new shade covers the whole sur- 

 face of shell ; in certain intermediate stages of growth, the shell is marked 

 with a zone of yellow on the inferior margin ; the color of the adult varies 

 from a greenish brown to a dark chestnut. The young shell has at times, 

 owing to the variations which exist between it and the adult, been taken for a 

 different species ; by some it has been taken for the Sph. rhomboideum. 

 The hinge margin is generally straight. I have specimens, however, from 

 Alabama, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, in which it is slightly curved. One 

 of the distinctive characters of this species is that the lateral teeth are never 

 placed at an angle with the cardinal teeth ; they are generally on a straight 

 Une with them. 



The finest specimens I have seen of the Sph. sulcatum were sent to me 



by Mr. Ingalls, who had collected them in Washington Co., N. Y. ; they were 



remarkably convex, and measured as much in length as 13-16ths of an inch ; the 



beaks were very full, and much raised above the margin of the shell. 



This species was first described in 1818, by Lamarck, under the names of Cy- 



* I am preparing for publication, as a complement to this Monagraph, an Atlas with 

 colored figures of the diffe/ent species described. 



1861.] 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



das sulcata and Cyclas Saratogea. Say, in 1819, ignorant that this shell 

 Tvas known to conchologists, described it as the Cyclas s i m i 1 i s, under which 

 name, until very recently, it has been most generally known. Say also fig- 

 ured this species, but his figure, I regret to say, is not correct, and would be 

 more apt to give one the idea of a Pisidium than of a Spha?rium. The descrip- 

 tion by Say of the Cyclas s i m i 1 i s applies perfectly to the shell under con- 

 sideration, of which Dr. Gould has given a very good figure in his Report on the 

 Invertebrata of Massachusetts. 



As related elsewhere,* I had an opportunity, some years since, while in 

 Paris, to see Lamarck's original specimens of the Cyclas sulcata and Sara- 

 togea, at the Garden of Plants, and at the Delessert Museum ; and to con- 

 vince myself by examination that they both belonged to one species, and were 

 identical with Say's Cyclas s i m i 1 i s. 



2. Sph. a ur eum. Prime. 



Cyclas aureua, Prime, Boston Proc. Iv. 159, 1851. 



Animal, not observed. 



Shell transversely oval, slightly elongated, nearly equilateral, heavy, con- 

 vex ; beaks full, raised above the outline of the shell ; anterior margin broad 

 and rounded; posterior narrower and somewhat angular; inferior slightly 

 ciirved ; hinge margin somewhat broad, curved ; cardinal teeth diminutive, 

 double, so placed together as to represent the form of the letter V reversed, 

 and rather wide-spread ; lateral teeth situated each one at an angle with the 

 cardinal teeth, strong and large ; sulcations deep, not very regular ; epidermis 

 varying from a greenish yellow to a bright gold color, slightly lustrous ; inte- 

 rior of the valves bluish white. 



Long. 9-16 ; lat. 7-16 ; diam. 6-16 inches. 



Hab. North America, from Lake Superior 1 



(Cabinet. Agassiz and Prime.) 



This is one of our most attractive species, but also one of the rarest. It is 

 supposed to have been brought from Lake Superior by the expedition which 

 visited that region under Professor Agassiz. In general outline it offers some 

 similarities with the Sph. sulcatum; it is, however, a much more ponderous 

 shell ; it is less elongated, more convex, its sulcations are not so regular, its 

 color is different, and lastly, its hinge margin is much more curved. 



Compared to the Sph. s o 1 i d u 1 u m, it is more convex, more elongated, its 

 posterior margin is broader, the hinge margin is not so much curved, the beaks 

 are fuller, and the sulcations are not quite so heavy ; the color is also dif- 

 ferent. 

 3. Sph. 9 1 i d u 1 u m. Prime. 



Cyclas soJidula, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 158, 1851. 

 C. distorta, Prime, loc. sub. cit. iv. 158, 1851. 



Animal, not observed. 



Shell transversely inequilateral, elongated, slightly convex ; beaks full, not 

 very prominent ; anterior margin rounded ; posterior drawn out to an angle ; 

 base slightly curved ; epidermis variable, dark chestnut or brownish yellow, 

 with sometimes a yellow zone on the basal margin ; sulcations coarse, irregu- 

 lar ; interior dark blue ; hinge margin considerably curved ; cardinal teeth 

 double, in the shape of the letter V reversed ; lateral teeth large ; the anterior 

 placed at an angle with the margin ; the posterior more on a continuation of 

 the curve. 



Long. 9-16; lat. 7-16; diam. 5-16 inches. 



* N m gome American species of Cyclas, etc, by Temple Prime. The Hague. 

 1857. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Hab. North America, iu the States of New Yoi'k, New Jersey, Ohio, Mary- 



and, Virginia aud laiUana. 



(Cabinets Academy of Nat. Sci. of Phila,, Jay et Prime.) 



This species which is not uncommon was probably confounded by our early 



conchologists with the Sph. sulcatum, it differs from that shell, however, in 



being less elongated, more inequilateral, less convex, the hinge margin is 



more curved, and the shell is more solid. 



4. Sph. striatiniim, Lam. 



Cyclas striatina, Lam., An. s. vert., v. 560, 1818. 

 C. edentula, Say, N. Harm. Dissem. 2, 1829. 

 C. cornea, Lam., C. B, Adam's Cat., 1847. 

 C. albula, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 155, 1851. 

 C. tenuislriata, '' loc. sub. cit., iv. 156, 1851. 

 C. acuminata, " " " iv. 158, 1851. 



C. inornata, " .' «' iv. 159, 1851. 



C. simplex, " " '' iv. 159, 1851. 



C. modesta, " " «« iv. 159, 1851. 



Animal white, tubes light reddish yellow. 



Shell slight, transversely elongated, somewhat compressed, inequilateral ; 

 anterior margin rounded, posterior distended, inferior rounded ; beaks full, 

 not much raised ; sulfations irregular, at times so light as hardly to be seen 

 with the naked eye, thus giving the shell a lustrous appearance ; color vary- 

 ing from a light greenish yellow to a darker shade ; valves slight ; interior 

 blue ; hinge margin slightly curved ; cardinal teeth double, very small, of 

 the same size ; lateral teeth larger, not very prominent. 

 Long. 7-16 ; lat. 5-16 ; diam. 4-46 inches. 



Hab. North America, in the States of New York, Connecticut, Pennsyl- 

 vania, Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Alabama, Tennessee, and in the Hell Grate 

 river, Washington Territory. 



(Cabinet. Academy of Nat. Sci. Phila., .Jay, Prime and others.) 

 As may be seen by the above synonymy, I have been induced to unite under 

 this species several which I described as distinct in 1851. The differences ex- 

 isting between these shells are at times quite marked, but in general charac- 

 ters they agree, and I am inclined to believe that these differences owe their 

 origin solely to local causes. 



I had occasion some time since to convince myself of the identity of the 

 Sph. striatinum with the Cyclas edentula of Say.* 



This species, which is not unplentiful in the localities where it is found, 

 varies much in size, color and external appearance generally. The shell from 

 Connecticut is so slight, that it is nearly translucent, and the striae are so 

 light as to impart to it a lustrous appearance ; on the other hand, I have spe- 

 cimens from the Hoosack, which are quite heavy and coarsely striated ; in 

 the main, however, they all seem to tally. The variety from Alabama, descri- 

 bed as the Cyclas tenuistriata, is less distended, is fuller, and the sul- 

 cations are hardly perceptible. 



Compared to the Sph. solidulum, this species is smaller, more inequi- 

 lateral, less tumid, more compressed, less solid, less heavily sulcated, and its 

 posterior extremity is more distended. 



5. Sph. stamineum, Conrad. 



Cyclas staminea, Conrad, Amer. Journ. xxv. 342, pi. 1, f. v. 1834. 

 C.fuscata, Rafin., Prime in Bost. Proc. iv. 281, 1852. 

 C. bulbosi, Anthony, Prime in loc. sub. cit., iv. 283, 1852. 

 Animal, not observed. 



* Notes on some American species of Cyclas, etc., by Temple Prime. The Hague, 

 1857. 8vo. 



1861.] 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Shell oval, somewhat full, inequilateral ; anterior generally abrupt ; poste- 

 rior slightly distended ; beaks very full and prominent, widely separate at the 

 apex, often eroded ; epidermis dark brownish yellow ; striae hiavy ; valves 

 strong ; interior blue ; hinge margin curved ; cardinal teeth double, nearly 

 obsolete ; lateral teeth distinct, strong. 



Long. 9-16 ; lat. 6-16 ; diam. 5-16 inches. 



Hah. North America in the States of New Jersey, Ohio, Illinois, Arkansas 

 and Alabama. 



(Cabinet. Academy of Nat. Sci. of Phila., Conrad, Jay and Prime.) 



I have been induced to iinite to this species the Cyclas f u s c a t a , Rafin- 

 esque, which I consider as nothing more than a large variety. The Cyclas 

 1)U Ibos a, Anthony, is a little more globose than Mr. Conrad's typical speci- 

 mens, but presents no important characters of difference. The shells of this 

 species found in New Jersey and in Illinois, are larger than those from Ala- 

 bama. 



This species differs from most of our North American ones by its full and 

 very prominent beaks. 



6. Sph. rhomboideum. Say. 



Cyclas rhomhoidea, Say, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., II. 2, 380, 1822. 



C. corwa, var. 3, Lam., An. s. vert. v. 558, 1818. 



C. elegans, C. B. Adams, Bost. II. 3, 330. pi. 3, f. 11, 1840. 



Animal, syphons reddish yellow. 



Shell subglobular, rhombic-orbicular, equilateral; anterior margin trun- 

 cated ; posterior slightly angular; basal nearly straight ; beaks full, bnt not 

 prominent ; valves slight, convex towards the beaks, gradually decreasing in 

 fulness towards the margins ; interior blue ; sulcations very delicate ; epider- 

 mis olive green, with often a straw-colored zone on the margins ; young shell 

 more compressed than the adult; hinge margin nearly straight ; cardinal teeth 

 rudimentary ; lateral teeth distinct, somewhat acute, not elongated. 



Long. 8-16; lat. 6-16; diam. 5-16 inches. 



Hah. North America, in the States of Vermont, Connecticut, Massachu- 

 setts, New York and Ohio. 



(Cabinet. Academy of Nat. Sci. Phila., Jay, Prime, and others.) 



This, the most attractive species of Sphoerium, is not easily confounded 

 with any other. Up to within a few years it was usually known among col- 

 lectors under the name of Cyclas elegans, Adams. I have stated elsewhere* 

 my reasons for considering the Cyclas elegans as identical M'ith Say's shell. 

 Though no longer rare since 1851, when Mr. Whittemore found it in consider- 

 able abundance at one place near Cambridge, Mass., this species does not 

 seem 1o be very widely distributed ; it is confined to certain special locali- 

 ties. 



7. Sph. d en t atu m, Hald. 



Cyclas dentata, Hald., Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Proc. i. 100, 1841. 



Animal, not observed. 



Shell large, ventricose, somewhat equilateral, inferior and anterior margins 

 rounded ; posterior somewhat angular ; beaks large, well rounded, distant, 

 not very prominent ; hinge margin nearly straight ; cardinal teeth single, dis- 

 tinct ; lateral teeth not prominent ; sulcations slight ; epidermis olive green, 

 with a dark narrow zone at some distance above the basal margin. 



Long. 1-2 ; lat. 2-5 ; diam. 3-8 inches. 



Uah. North America, in Oregon. 



(Cabinet. Academy of Nat. Sci. Phila.) 



The young shell is more elongated and more heavily sulcated than the 



* Annals of the N. Y. Lyceum, vol. vi. p. 66, 1833, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 407 



adult ; the beaks are less large and less tnmid. This is a well marked species ; 

 compared to the Sph. patella, Gould, from the same section of the country, 

 it is found to he larger, more ventricose, tlie beaks are moreintiated, and the 

 color of the epidermis is different. 



The only two specimens I have seen of the Sph. detruucatum were 

 those from which Mr. Haldeman described the species, an adult and a young 

 one, which he was kind enough to lend me for study ; they are now deposited 

 in the collection of the Academy of Nat. Sci. of Philadelphia. 



8. Sph. fab all s. Prime. 



C I] das f ah alls, Prime, Bost. Proc. iv. 159, 1851. 

 C. ca<itanea, Prime, loc. sub. cit., iv. 160, 1851. 

 C. sulculosa, DeCharpentier, Mss. 1851. 



Animal, syphons crimson. 



Shell transversely oval, compressed, nearly equilateral ; anterior and basal 

 margins rounded ; posterior margin slightly abrupt ; beaks not full, very 

 much depressed ; sulcations moderately heavy, very regular, quite distinct ; 

 epidermis light green, it is, however, sometimes quite dark ; in the young it 

 is often straw color ; valves slight, interior blue ; hinge margin very slightly 

 curved ; cardinal teeth small, assuming the shape of the letter V reversed ; 

 lateral teeth slight ; anterior tooth somewhat more elevated, both placed very 

 nearly on a line with the cardinal teeth. 



Long. 9-16 ; lat. 7-16 ; diam. 4-16 inches. 



Hah. North America, in the States of New York, Ohio, Illinois, Tennessee, 

 Georgia and Virginia. 



(Cabinet. Jay and Prime.) 



This is a very distinct species ; I know of no other to which it bears any 

 resemblance ; it is remarkable for its compressed appearance, and for the de- 

 pression of its beaks. Though pretty widely distributed, it does not seem to 

 be found any where in much abundance. 



The epidermis of the shell is at times so entirely stained with a darkish 

 substance, that it is with difficulty that its color can be detected. 



9. Sph. occidental e. Prime. 



Ci/clas ovalis, (preoc, ) Prime, Bost. Proc, iv. 276, 1852. 



Sph. ovale, Stimps. Adams, rec. gen. 2, 450, 1858. 



Sph. occidentale, Prime, Ac. N. S. Phila., Proc, 295, 1860. 



Annimal not observed. 



Shell oval, small, pellucid, fragile, equilateral, margins rounded ; valves, 

 slight, rather convex; beaks full, rounded, not much raised; sulcations very 

 fine, hardly visible : epidermis horn color ; cardinal teeth very diminutive ; 

 lateral teeth more distinct. 



Long. 5-16 ; lat. 4-16 ; diam. 3-16 inches. 



Hah. N. America, in the States of New York, Vermont, Ohio, Wisconsin, 

 Georgia and iu the Hell Gate River, Washington Territory. 



(Cabinets Academy N. S. of Phila., Jay and Prime ) 



This species is remarkable for its completely oval shape, which renders it 

 quite distinct from all others. It is found not uncommonly. Compared to the 

 Sph. p ar tumium, under which name it has at times been sent to me, it 

 is much smaller, the margins are more rounded, and the beaks are not so 

 much raised. 



10. Sph. nob lie, Gould. 



Cyclas nohilis, Gould, Bost. Proc, v. 229, 1855. Atlas of U. S. Explor, 

 Expedit. , pi. 36. 

 Animal not observed. 



1861.] 




408 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Shell rhombic-ovate, inequilateral, moderately compressed ; anterior mar- 

 gin truncated, posterior more distended, basal curved ; beaks rounded, in- 

 clined towards the front, slightly tumid, separate at apex ; sulcations coarse ; 

 epidermis delicate, light brown ; valves strong, interior white ; hinge margin 

 nearly straight, moderately broad ; cardinal teeth single, distinct ; lateral 

 teeth moderately developed. 



Long. 8-16 ; lat. 6-lG ; diam. 4-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, at San Pedro in the State of California. 



(Cabinet. Gould and Prime.) 



Compared to the Sph. sulcatum it is slighter, less sulcated, more com- 

 pressed and less tumid. This species is rare, the only specimens I have seen 

 were kindly presented to me by Dr. Gould. 



11. Sph. patella, Gould. 



Ciiclas patella, Gould, Bost. Proc, iii. 292, 1850. Atlas U. S. Explor. 

 Expedit., pi. 36. 



Animal not observed. 



Shell rounded oval, lenticular, compressed, equilateral ; margins generally 

 rounded ; beaks central, small, hardly raised ; valves slight, interior white ; 

 sulcations extremely fine ; epidermis light, of a yellowish brown color ; car- 

 dinal teeth very diminutive, so placed as to assume the shape of the letter V 

 reversed ; lateral teeth not prominent, elongated. 



Long. 7-16 ; lat. 5-16 ; diam. 3-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, in Oregon. 



(Cabinet. Gould and Prime.) 



This species is peculiar, owing to its compressed oval shape and rounded 

 beaks ; compared to the Sph. fl a vum it is more oval, more equilateral, and 

 its beaks are less tumid. The specimens in my cabinet came from Dr. Gould. 



12. Sph. Vermontanum, Prime. 



Proc. Ac. N. S. Phil. 128, 1861. 



Animal not observed. 



Shell very oblique, tumid, inequilateral, full ; anterior margin abrupt, pos- 

 terior drawn out to an angle, basal slightly curved ; beaks large, full, promi- 

 nent, placed very much towards the anterior, in which direction they are 

 slightly inclined ; sulcations coarse, moderately regular ; epidermis light 

 green ; ligament conspicuous ; valves solid, interior light blue ; hinge margin 

 much curved, broad ; cardinal teeth strong, representing the letter V reversed ; 

 lateral teeth elongated, strong. 



Long. 9-16 ; lat. 6-16 ; diam. 4-16 inches. 



Hah. N. America, in Lakes Champlain and Memphramagog, Vermont. 



(Cabinet. Prime.) 



Remarkable for its very oblique and tumid shape, and for the abruptness of 

 its anterior margin. Compared to the Sph. s t a m i n e u m, it is more tumid 

 and less heavily sulcated ; it is less elongated and more tumid than the Sph. 

 striatinum. Quite rare. I have uevei seen but a few specijnens of this 

 species, which were received from the late Prof. Adams, of Amherst. 



13. Sph. emarg in at u m. Prime. 



Cyclas emai-ginata, Friiae, Bost. Proc. iv. 156, 1851. 



Animal not observed. 



Shell triangular, nearly equilateral, convex, tumid, anterior and posterior 

 margins abrupt, posterior slightly more distended, basal margin curved ; valves 

 solid, interior white ; beaks very full, prominent, nearly central ; ligament 

 distinct ; sulcations regular, not heavy ; epidermis brown, with several nar- 

 row transverse zones of a dark color at regular intervals ; hinge margin 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 409 



curved ; cardinal teeth single, quite distinct ; lateral teetli notmucli elongated, 

 strong. 



Long. 6-16 ; lat. 6-16 ; diam. 4-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, iu the region of Lake Superior. 



(Cabinet. Agassiz and Prime.) 



The triangular and very tumid form of this species is quite singular ; it 

 differs from the Sph. Vermontanum in being more tumid, fuller, in having 

 larger beaks and in being much less broad at the base. The young shell is 

 more elongated and less tumid than the adult. A rare species. 



14. Sph. flavum, Prime. 



Cyclasjiava, Prime, Bost. Proc, iv. 155, 1851. 



Animal not observed. 



Shell transversely rounded, compressed, equilateral, delicate, margins gene- 

 rally rounded, the posterior a little distended ; beaks central, not full, more 

 or less depressed ; valves very slight, interior whitish ; sulcations pretty deep, 

 regular ; epidermis light, of a greenish yellow color ; cardinal teeth small, 

 in the shape of the letter V revei'sed ; lateral teeth elongated. 



Long. 7-1(3 ; lat. 5-16 ; diam. 3-16 inches. 



Hab. N. America, at the Sault St. Marie, Lake Superior. 



(Cabinet. Agassiz, Jay and Prime.) 



This is a very slight and delicate species, quite distinct from any others but 

 the Sph. patella, to which it bears some general resemblance from its shape : 

 it is, however, more compressed, less high, and the exterior of the valves is 

 very different, as they are nearly smooth in Dr. Gould's shell. Found not 

 unplentifully in the one locality. 



(To be contiaueJ.) 



Descriptions of New Palaeozoic Fossils from Kentucky and Indiana. 

 BY SIDNEY S. LYON. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



CRINOIDEA. 



Genus CYATHOCRINUS Miller, 1821. 



Cyathockinus levicclcs, n. s. Plate iv., fig. 1. 



Calyx subc'onical, truncate at its junction with the column, from which it 

 expands upward. The pieces composing the calyx are smooth, united iu a 

 distinct groove. Basal pieces 5, pentangular, equal in size, slightly concave at 

 the junction with the column. Subradials 5, four of which are of the same 

 size, hexagonal in form, the fifth is a little larger than the others ; it is trun- 

 cated at its summit, thus receiving an additional side. Radial pieces 5, simi- 

 lar in form, septagonal, grooved on their upper margin at their junction with 

 the second primary radial pieces. These being absent in our specimen, their 

 form is unknown. One anal piece is present, it is small, resting upon the 

 right oblique upper margin of the largest piece forming the first circle above 

 the basal pieces. One or more have fallen out, the space is quadrangular, a 

 little higher than wide, having the same width and placed immediately above 

 the truncated summit of the largest piece forming the subradial circle. Co- 

 lumnar facet large, opening large and nearly round. 



Dimensions. 

 Height of calyx, from column to summit of first radials, '19-100 inch. 



Diameter of base at its junction with column •16-100 " 



Diameter of calyx at summit of first radials '20-100 " 



1861.] 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Locality and geological position. Collected by Dr. J. Knapp, from the 

 crinoid bed, lying between the Hydraulic limestone and the Black-slate, 

 Beargrass quarries, Jefferson county, Kentucky. 



I am indebted to Dr. J. Knapp, of Louisville, Kentucky, for the use of this 

 and several other species from the same localities. 



Our species is evidently not an adult ; no analogous adult form has been 

 collected from these beds. 



Cyathoceikus Wortheni, n. s. Plate iv., fig. 2. 



The fragmentary condition of our specimen prevents a complete descrip- 

 tion. 



Calyx subconical, about as wide as high, expanding upward, composed of 

 pieces ornamented by carina intersecting each other at the centre of the 

 pieces ; dividing the surface into triangular spaces deeply depressed at the 

 centre of each, except the basal pieces ; upon these the carina passes from the 

 centre of the subradials downward and along the lateral margins and base of 

 the basal pieces at the line of their union with the column. Basal pieces 

 nearly as high as wide, pentangular, the lateral margins half as high as the 

 width of the base of the pieces. Subradials septagonal, nearly the same size, 

 alternating with the basal pieces. Radial pieces considerably less than the 

 subradials. A fragment of one of second primary radials is present ; it is 

 somewhat oval, the inner side is grooved by a deep furrow ; the body of the 

 piece is perforated by a round opening. The column is composed of thin 

 pieces having ten prominent thickened projections, making when joined a 

 circular column deeply indented by ten longitudinal grooves, one under the 

 centre and one under the lateral union of the basal pieces. Columnar open- 

 ing obscurely pentapetalous . 



Dimensions. 



Height to summit of first primary radials '52-100 inch. 



Diameter of base at column •28-100 " 



Diameter at summit of first radials '65-100 " 



Our example is slightly crushed. 



Geological position and locality. Collected by Dr. .J. Knapp, from the same 

 locality and same beds as the preceding species ; like that species, it is rare. 



Genus ACTINOCRINUS Miller, 1821. 



AcTiNocKiKus Cassedayi, n. s. Plate iv., fig. 3-3a. 



Calyx basin-shaped, twice as wide as high, composed of thick costate 

 pieces, the costa being partially or entirely interrupted at the sutiires, mark- 

 ing the union of the pieces. The basal pieces are low, widely expanded be- 

 yond the column and body, deeply concave below, the outer margin cf the 

 pieces alternately raised and depressed, presents a waving line. The summit 

 is low, covered by small prominent pieces, the central pieces being the 

 largest ; a double row of pieces not quite so large as the central ones, radiate 

 from the central pieces to the centre of each group of arms ; the spaces be- 

 tween these rows are deeply depressed, and are covered by verj"- small pieces. 

 All the pieces covering the summit are irregularly and prominently granulated. 

 The central pieces are absent. It is probable the summit was surmounted by 

 a proboscis, which is subcentral. Near the proboscis (?) are two lip-shaped 

 pieces slightly parted, leaving an opening into the calyx. The interspaces 

 between the costa on the radial and interradial pieces are remarkably deep 

 and irregular in form. The radial pieces rise directly on the basal pieces. 

 The interradial pieces appear to be three in each space. Anal pieces, from 

 eight to ten. Column round and small, being less than half the diameter of 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



tlie basal pieces. Opening small and irregularly circular. The arms appear 

 to consist of groups of four each ; the postero-lateral groups are not seen ; 

 their number is unknown. 



Dimensions. 



Height from base to arms •22-100 inch. 



Height from base to summit -35-100 " 



Greatest diameter -75-100 " 



Least diameter -50-100 " 



Diameter of base -35-100 " 



Height of base -05-100 " 



Geological position and locality. Collected by Dr. J. Knapp, in the same 

 beds as the preceding species. 



Ihave dedicated this elegant crinoid to the memory of one who loved and 

 cultivated geology, my lamented friend, the late S. A. Casseday, of Louisville, 

 Kentucky. 



AcTiNOCRiNus Meeki* u. s, Plate iv,, 4 a-b. 



Calyx uniform, symmetrical, a little wider than high ; a prominent ridge 

 rises at its junction with the column, slight at first, gradually increasing in size 

 as it passes over the body along the line of the centre of the rays to the summit 

 of the third radial pieces, the whole surface of the body is elaborately orna- 

 mented by fine raised ridges slightly waving ; sometimes two are found unit- 

 ing together, especially at the external corners- of the ti-iangular figures which 

 they form ; the centre of the triangle resting on the angular notch marking 

 the union of any three adjacent pieces, the external points of the triangles 

 terminating at the centre of the pieces, except in the basal pieces, when the 

 lower point of the triangular figure terminates near the base of the pieces at 

 the column. Basal pieces three, forming a broad deep pentagonal cup, the 

 upper margins of which are slightly concave. First primary radials very large, 

 hexagonal ; the upper margin divided into three nearly equal sides, the cen- 

 tre of which supports a small quadrangular second primary radial, the centre 

 line of which is rendered very prominent by the carina marking the line of 

 the rays ; this bears a nonagonal axillary third radial, still more prominent 

 than those below. A single complete interradial field is exhibited in our spe- 

 cimen ; it consists of one large octagonal piece, supporting two small paral- 

 ■ lelogramic pieces ; the lateral oblique margins of the third primary radials 

 also rest upon it. The form of the arms are vmknown ; they appear to start 

 in groups of two each, ten in all. Column very small, round, arrangement 

 unknown. Columnar facet concave, crenulations not visible, perforation very 

 small and round. 



Ditnensi07is. 



Height of calyx ^ -33-100 inch. 



Height of first primary radial -37-100 " 



Whole height from base to summit of third radials -85-100 " 



Diameter at centre of first radials -80-100 " 



Diameter at summit of third radials 1-00-100 " 



Geological position and localitij. Collected by Dr. J. Knapp, in beds from 

 70 to 75 feet below the black slate, Jefferson county, Kentucky, where it is 

 found associated with Caryocrin^^s, Eucaleptocrinus, Melocrinitis, &c. The 

 beds for several feet above and below are barren of fossils. Pentamerus 

 oblong us are quite abundant in beds from twenty to twenty-five feet 

 above. 



* I take pleasure in specifically designating this new and elegant crinoid by the name 

 of Meeki, in honor of F. B. Meek of the Geological Survey of Illinois. 



1861.] 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OP 



Genus RHODOCRINUS Miller, 1821. 



Rhodocrinus Halli, n. s. Plate iv., fig. 5 a-b. 



Body vaslform, one-third wider than high, composed of slightly convex and 

 plane pieces, connected by distinct depressed sutures. The lines of tlie rays 

 are prominent, while the interradial fields between them are nearly level, 

 giving the calyx a pentagonal figure at the summit of the second radials. 

 Columnar facet large, covering nearly the whole of the basal pieces, the angu- 

 lar points alone project beyond the column. Basal pieces five, short, lanceo- 

 late, crenulated and concave at their union with the column. Subradial 

 pieces five, convex, tliree are pentagonal, the summits of the other two are 

 truncated and hexagonal ; one truncated piece supports the anal field, the 

 other being the second to the left of the anal piece. A slight elevation rises at 

 the lower side of the subradials, runs to the centre of them, when it branches ; 

 a branch from the subradials on either side uniting at the centre of the first 

 radial piece. The first primary radials two, one septagonal, two hexagonal, 

 the second to the left of anal lield being pentagonal ; they alternate with the 

 subradials, rising from the angular notch between them, and with the first 

 anal piece from a closed circle around the calyx. The second primary radials 

 are quite small whi^n compared with those below ; they differ in size and are 

 all hexagonal. The third primary are axillary, pentagonal, less than the 

 second series ; they each support one brachial piece on either of their oblique 

 upper margins ; from tliis last piece appears to rise the free arms. luterra- 

 dials — the first are large pentagonal, each supporting two smaller pieces ; these 

 again support three ; the fourth series appears to consist of four pieces. Our 

 specimen does not sliow the upper part of any interradial field perfectly. The 

 first anal piece is hexagonal ; it supports three pieces, the central one pentag- 

 onal, the other two hexagonal, these support five (?). Arms ten, column 

 round, perforation small, (obscure on our specimen,) it is nearly round, or 

 slightly pentelobate. 



Dimensions. 



Height of specimen 'SS-lOO inch. 



Greatest diameter (specimen slightly crushed) 1'80-108 " 



Diameter of base -40-100 " 



Geological position and locality. Collected by Dr. J. Knapp, in the same 

 beds as specimens described in this paper under Nos. 43, 44 and 49. Named 

 in honor of James Hall, Esq., of Albany, N. Y. 



Genus MAGESTOCRINUS Owen & Shumard, 1848. 

 Magestoceinus Knappii, n. s. Plate iv., fig. 6 a-b. 



Calyx subglobose, base broad^ nearly flat to the end of the second primary 

 radials, slightly depressed at the basal pieces. Base composed of three pieces, 

 nearly equal in siae, together they present an oblong hexagonal disk. First 

 primary radials hexagonal, nearly equal in size, about as wide as high, upper 

 margins straight and parallel to the base of the pieces, the base a little wider 

 than the summit of the pieces. Second primary radials hexagonal, less than 

 the first radials, each surmounted by a short thick spine, the base of whicli 

 covers tire surface of the piece. Thir^i radials axillary, less than the second, 

 each surmounted by a spine like the second radials ; the spines on tlie differ- 

 ent third radials vary in size ; they taper more rapidly than the spines on the 

 second radials. Each third radial supports on its upper oblique upper mar- 

 gins two secondary radials, each of which is surmounted by a short obtuse 

 spine, more or less prominent ; two or three oblong non-spinous pieces are 

 supported by these, which reach to the free arms. Interradial pieces : the first 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



is large, hexagonal resting in the angular notch between the ^rst radials, it 

 supports two pieces of the second series, these again three pieces. All the pieces 

 from the base to tlie summit of the second radials are well defined by a deep 

 groove at the base of their junction with each other ; above this the pieces 

 rise upon a surface quite smooth, and are more readily distinguished by the 

 spine marking the centre of each piece, than by tlie line of their union with 

 each other. The first anal piece is like the first radial pieces, it supports one 

 hexagonal piece on its centre, and a pentagonal piece on each of its oblique 

 upper sides ; tliis group of four pieces are nearly of the same size and are 

 slightly convex ; they support about six rows of pieces one above the other, 

 each row diminisliing in size and number of each row, in all about twenty- 

 five pieces, each piece having a central spine or tubercle. The summit is low, 

 deeply depressed between the groups of arms, surmounted by a subcentral 

 proboscis, covered by numerous polygonal pieces nearly of the same size, 

 separated by well deiined grooves. Tlie arms appear to be ten in number, the 

 postero-lateral rays are not seen ; it is possible they may bear three each ; 

 should this be the case, the whole number of arms would be twelve. The arm 

 facets are large and prominent ; a small portion of one of the arms remaining 

 on the specimen, shows tUem to be composed of a double row of thin pieces. 



Dimenxions. 



Height to free arms •48-100 inch. 



Height to base of proboscis '85-100 " 



Diameter below arms "QS-lOO " 



Geol igical positivn and locality. Collected by Dr. J. Knapp, from the 

 crinoid bed immediately below the hydraulic limestone, Clark county, Indi- 

 ana. 



I take pleasure in dedicating this species to a cultivator of Geology, my 

 friend. Dr. J. Knapp of Louisville, Ky. 



Magestocrixcs spinosclus, n. s. Plate iv., fig. 7 a-b. 

 Body subcylindrical, expanding slightly from the middle of the third pri- 

 mary radial to the summit of the third secondary radials. The first three or 

 four axillary pieces lying nearly horizontal, expand the body at the inser- 

 tion of the arms. The base is nearly level to the end of the spines on the 

 third primaiy radial, concave from the middle of the second radial to the cen- 

 tre of the basal pieces ; the summit is low, arched, surmounted by a proboscis 

 placed quite near the side of the summit above tlae anal side. Basal pieces : 

 together they form nearly a circle, slightly indented at the sutures at which 

 they are united, crenulated on the outer margin of the columnar facet, form- 

 ing a thin disk, implanted upon the second circle of pieces, a little larger when 

 joined to the body than at the union with the column. The pieces appear to 

 be joined to the second circle by lapping, and not at the edges of the pieces. 

 First primary radials five, hexagonal, nearly equal in size, differing slightly 

 in form, summits nearly parallel to the base of the pieces, curving outward 

 and downward at the outer extremity of each. Second primary radials hex- 

 agonal, the centre of each having a mammillary tubercle more or less prominent. 

 Third radials larger than the second, pentagonal, difl'ering considerably in 

 size and form ; the centre of each piece is surmounted by a short mammillary or 

 spinous tubercle, the base of which covers nearly or the entire surface of the 

 pieces, on the upper oblique margins of each rests two hexagonal or septag- 

 onal pieces ; each of which bears like the third radials a spine or tubercle, 

 which are rather smaller than those on the radial below them, on which they 

 rest. These last pieces are also axillary, and support each two smaller pieces 

 more or less spinous, the last two pieces nearest each other (or in the centre 

 of the several rays,) are also axillary and support each two small pieces, one 

 above the other, the outer pieces supporting three similar pieces, all of which 



1861,] 




414 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



bear near the centre a small tubercle. The brachial pieces appear to rest 

 upon the last of the preceding series. luterradials : the interradial fields are 

 tilled with from seven to nine pieces, tlie first are of the same size and form 

 as the second radials ; they rise from the angular notch between the first 

 radials, and support on their upper margins two spinous pieces like the third 

 radials, with which they form a circle around the base of the vertical sides of 

 the body ; in an angular notcli between the second range of interradials rests 

 one large spinous piece, tliis supports two or three nearly smooth pieces one 

 above the other. luteraxillary : rising between two of the first secondary 

 radials are two small pentagonal pieces, one above the other, completely en- 

 closed by the pieces of the secondary radials. Anal pieces : these are about 

 twenty in number, rising in ranges one above the other ; these ranges are not 

 quite regular, but are thrust into and interlock each other ; the pieces are 

 similar in form and size to the other pieces of the same height composing the 

 calyx. Tliey diminish in size and number in the ranges until the field is 

 terminated by a single piece immediately below tlie circle of tlie arms. The arms 

 are thirty in number, in groups of six each ; they form a closed circle around 

 the calyx and support the vault. They appear to have been nearly circular, 

 formed of two rows of thin pieces ; the opening through tlie arm facets is cir- 

 cular and covered by the pieces of the summit. The summit is covered by 

 numerous small polygonal pieces difl'eriug greatly in size. Near to the mar- 

 gin and immediately above the centre of each group of arms is placed a larger 

 piece which is surmounted by a short spine ; all the pieces are well defined by 

 a deep groove at the line of the union of the pieces. The proboscis appears, 

 (judging from two circles of pieces which are attached to our specimen), to 

 have been composed of stout small pieces similar to those forming the sum- 

 mit. Tlie surface markings are nearly all removed from our specimen ; one 

 or two pieces of the summit are finely granulose. The epidermis bearing the 

 granula, is about one-thirtieth of an inch thick. 



Dimensions. 



Height from base to free arms '55-100 inch. 



Height from base to proboscis 1*00-100 " 



Greatest diameter of calyx below arms 1-25-100 " 



Greatest diameter of summit 1-60-100 " 



Diameter of basal pieces -25-100 " 



Geological position and localiti/. Collected from a bed about sijJ feet below 

 the hydraulic limestone, Falls ot' Ohio, Clark county, Indiana. It is associated 

 with the preceding species. My cabinet and that of Dr. J. Knapp, Louisville, 

 Ky. 



Descriptions of three new species of Mollusca of the genus SPH^RIUM. 

 BY TEMPLE PRIME. 



1. Sphasrium meridionale, Prime. — S. testa ovato-oblonga, compressa, 

 tenui, inaequilaterali, tenui, transversim elegaatissirae striata ; intus carneo- 

 rubra maculata; umbonibus parum prominentibus, natibus acutis, aiitice ap- 

 proximatis, inclinatis; epidermide fusco-luteolo, nigro-maculata ; latere antico 

 brevi, valde declivi, obtuso, postico subangulato, margine inferiore parum ar- 

 cuato' dente cardinali minimo, dentibus lateralibus valde compressis. elongatis, 

 antico majore. 



Long. J ; lat. l-5th ; diani. ^ poll. 



liab. Panama; (Collect. Prime.) 



Compared to the Sphaeriura maculatum, Morelet, of Yucatan, this species 

 differs in having a less abrupt posterior margin, its lateral teeth are larger and 

 more developed, and the shell is generally less inflated. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 415 



2. Sphserium Barbadease, Prime. — S. testa ovato-oblon^a, ventricosa, 

 iiisequilaterali, teaui, transversira striata, iatus carneo-riibra maculata, umboni- 

 bus promioeatibus, natibus acutissiniis, iacliaatis, erosis ; latere antico rotun- 

 dato, postico latiore, obtuso ; epiderinide fusco-luteolo ; deatibus cardiaalibus 

 inconspicuis, lateralibus parvis, subfei;[ualibus, antico paulo majore. 



Long. ^ ; lat. l-5th ; diam. ^ poll. 

 Sab. Barbadoes ; (Collect. Prime.) 



This insular species is very similar to the Sphserium B ah i e as e, Spix, of 

 Brazil ; it is, however, much larger and somewhat more inflated. 



3. Spb<erium Portoricense, Prime. — S. testa elongato-transversa, rhom- 

 boidea, aequilaterali, tenui, cornea, transversim fortiter striata; valvis crassius- 

 culis, nigro irregulariter macalatis ; extremitatibas obtusa, utroque latere 

 aequaliter declivi; dentibus cardiaalibus inconspicuis, lateralibus subaequalibus, 

 antico majore. 



Lon.iy. I ; lat. l-5tb ; diam. ^ poll. 



Sab. Portorico ; (Collect. Swift et Prime.) 



Very similar in shape to the young of Sph^rium s u 1 c at u m. Lam. This 

 species differs from the generality of West Indian and South American Sphaeria 

 by its sulcations, which are quite heavy for its size. 



[Published by permission of the W.ar Department.] 



Descriptions of new Lower Silurian, (Primordial), Jurassic, Cretaceous, and 

 Tertiary Fossils, collected in Nebraska, by the Exploring Expedition under 

 the command of Capt. Wm. F. Eaynolds, V. S. Top. Engrs. ; with some remarks 

 on the rocks from which they were obtained. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND F. V. HAYDEN. 



The geological collections brought in by Captain Raynolds' expedition, al- 

 though, as might be expected, not containing so large a number of new species, 

 as those of some earlier explorers of the north-west, afford several very inter- 

 esting new forms, and furnish much important information in regard to the 

 geographical distribution of previously known species. Tbey also afford us 

 much valuible information respecting the extent and range of the various 

 groups of rocks, so widely distributed throughout the great area of his ex- 

 plorations. 



In the present paper we give descriptions only, of the new species contained 

 in these collections. We have, however, in course of preparation for Capt. 

 Raynolds' final Report, full illustrations, with more extended descriptions of 

 these, together with complete catalogues of all the previously known forms. 

 Before commencing these preliminary descriptions, it may not be out of place 

 to make some remarks on the formations from which they were obtained. This 

 we now propose to do in the order of their succession in time, commencing 

 with the oldest. 



LOWER SILURIAN (PRIMORDIAL) ROCKS. 



In March, 1858, we announced in a paper read before the Academy, that we 

 had identified fossils of the age of the Potsdam Sandstone amongst the collec- 

 tions brought by Lieut. Warren's expeditions from the Black Hills, Nebraska. 

 Previous to that time, no organic remains of that age had been recognized either 

 from there or from the Rocky Mountain ranges farther west. The specimens 



[Note. — We take pleasure in acknowledging here our renewed obligations to 

 Prof. Henry, for the free use of the extensive collection of works on geology, 

 palaeontology, &c., in the library of the Smithsonian Institution, and for other 

 facilities of great value to us in the prosecution of these investigations ] 



1861.] 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



then identified by us were collected by one of the writers, (Dr. H.,) who acfed 

 as geologist of Lieut. Warren's expedition. They consist of Linc/ula prima, L. 

 antigua, and an OholeUa, with fragments of a Trilobitb of Primordial type, 

 similar to some of those occurring in rocks of that age in Wisconsin. 



In the following pages of this paper we give descriptions of apparently the 

 same Trilobite mentioned above, and of a small Pteropod? of the genus Pugiunculus, 

 from the Primordial or Potsdam Sandstone at a locality near the head of Powder 

 River, on Big Horn Mountains, a partof the Rocky Mountain range, near 43" 30'' N. 

 lat. long. 108° W. These fossils were collected by one of the writers, (Dr. Hayden, 

 who acted as geologist of Capt. Raynolds' expedition,) from a brownish some- 

 what laminated sandstone, also containing a Lingula apparently identical with L. 

 antiqua, but smaller than the average size of that shell. At this and other 

 localities along the Rocky Mountains, west of the Black Hills, as well as at the 

 latter, this rock was seen resting either directly upon granitic masses, or 

 ancient upheaved metamorphic slates. At the Black Hills, it is usually only 

 from 50 to 80 feet in thickness, but in the Big Horn Mountains, it sometimes 

 attains a thickness of two hundred feet. 



Up to this time, we have no positive evidence of the existence of any of the 

 usually succeeding Silurian and Devonian rocks, throughout all this region, north 

 of the South Pass, lat. 42°31^N. long.109 W. From the latter locality, we have 

 identified specimens of Ilalysites catemdata and a few other fossils probably of 

 upper Silurian age.* North of this, however, so far as we know, the Primordial 

 Sandstones, are directly succeeded by heavy deposits of Carboniferous age, 

 of arenaceous and more or less pure limestones. Surmounting the latter there 

 were also seen occasional local beds of raagnesian limestones of the same age, 

 and containing some of the same fossils as those referred by us and others in 

 eastern Kansas, to the Permian epoch. As it is our purpose, however, to con- 

 fine our remarks more particularly to the strata from which the fossils described 

 in this paper were obtained, we pass on to the 



JURASSIC ROCKS. 



In a paper already referred to, (published by us in the March number of the 

 Proceedings for 1858), we announced that we had identified Jurassic types of 

 fossils among the collections brought in from the Black Hills, by Lieut. War- 

 ren's expedition. So far as we know, these were the first true Jurassic fossils 

 ever identified from the region of the Rocky Mountains. In April, 1860, one of 

 the writers, (F. B. M.,) and Mr. Henry Engelmann, recognized some of the same 

 species along with a few new forms, in the collections brought by Capt. 

 Simpson's expedition, from equivalent beds at Red Buttes on the north Platte, 

 and from near Uintah and Weber River, in Utah.f 



The specimens of this age collected during Capt. Raynolds' expeditions are 

 in part from near the head of Wind River Valley, in the Rocky Mountains, lat. 

 43", 30' N., long. 110° W., and from Big Horn Mountains, lat. 43° 30' N., 

 long. 108 W. At both of these localities, at the Black Hills, and at the Red 

 Buttes on the north Platte, as well as at the other localities already mentioned 

 in Utah, the rocks containing these Jurassic fossils consist of a series of grayish, 

 ash-colored, and red argillo-calcareous, more or less gritty strata, with beds of 

 soft dark brown, and reddish sandstones. These beds preserve a remarkable 

 uniformity of characters, taken as a group, wherever they have been seen, and 

 need never be confounded with the Cretaceous or Tertiary rocks so widely dis- 

 tributed over the north-western Territories, even where no fossils are to be 

 found. They are usually only seen as we approach the mountains, near which 

 they rise from beneath the Cretaceous strata. 



The organic remains found in this series present, both individually and as a 

 group, very close affinities to those of the Jurassic epoch in the old world ; so 

 close indeed, that in some instances, after the most careful comparisons with 



* Transac. American Philosophical Society, March 4, 1859, page 137. 

 tSee Proceedings of the Academy, .4pril, 1860, p. 129. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 417 



figures and descriptions, we are left in doubt whether they should be rejjarded 

 as distinct species, or as varieties of well known European Jurassic forms. 

 Among those so very closely allied to foreign Jurassic species, maybe mention- 

 ed an Anunonite, we have described under the name of -4. cordiformis^ which we 

 now regard as probably identical with A. corJatns of Sowerby, — a Oryphma we 

 have only been able to distinguish as a variety, from O. calceola, Quenstedt, — a 

 Pecten scarcely, distinguishable from /*. lens, Sowerby, — a i1/oc??o/a very closely 

 allied to M. cancellata of Goldfuss, — a Belcmnite^ agreeing very nearly with B. 

 excentricus, Blainville, &c. &c. 



At the same time that the fossils of this group of strata are generally so close- 

 ly analogous to known Jurassic species of the old world, they are all clearly 

 distinct from any of those found in our Cretaceous rocks above. In short, their 

 Jurassic age is as susceptible of demonstration, both upon stratigraphical and 

 palaeontological evidence, as that the succeeding rocks above them, or any part 

 of the Green sands of New Jersey, belong to the Cretaceous epoch. The facts 

 likewise, nearly all, as we have mentioned on former occasions, point to the 

 conclusion that they hold a rather low position in the Jurassic system. 



At nearly all the localities already mentioned, where these well marked 

 Jurassic rocks occur, there is at their base a more or less extensive series of 

 brick red strata, composed of fine grained, areno-argillaceous material, with 

 local intercalated beds of gypsum. These red strata seem to be nearly always 

 destitute of organic remains, but from their position we have been inclined to 

 regard them as probably of Triassic age. During Capt. Raynolds' expedition, 

 however, some fossiliferous seams were found near their base, probably 300 

 feet below the horizon of the beds containing so many Jurassic fossils. Amongst 

 these we recognize our Lingula brevirosfra, and Monotis curia, Hall, sp., both of 

 which are common in the beds containing the Jurassic fossils at the Black Hills. 

 From this fact we are inclined to think that at least a large part of the red 

 gypsum-bearing strata of this region, should also be included in the Jurassic 

 system. 



These red beds augment greatly in thickness as we go southward ; and as 

 Dr. Newberry and others have shown, similar, if not equivalent strata, are de- 

 veloped on a grand scale in New Mexico. Whether this vast series of red beds 

 in the south-west belongs to the Jurassic or Triassic epoch, or whether they re- 

 present both in part, are questions it would be wandering from our subject to 

 attempt to discuss here. 



CRETACEOUS ROCKS. 



LOWER SERIES. 



In our paper of March 1838, already cited, we mentioned having recognized 

 fresh or brackish-water shells in Lieut. Warren's collections from the south- 

 west base of the Black Hills, obtained apparently from the base of the Cre- 

 taceous series, of that region. These fossils consist of a Unio, a small Planorbis, 

 and fragments of some small univalves like PalucKna, all of which were found 

 associated with imperfect specimens of Osirea. The beds containing these 

 fossils present a somewhat mixed character, being composed, in part, of light gray 

 clays, and purple argillo-calcareous seams. The fresh-water shells were found 

 in the latter hard seams, which sometimes assume nearly the aspect and composi- 

 tion of a true limestone. This formation rests directly upon the Jurassic 

 Strata, and seems to pass beneath the older Cretaceous beds.* 



* At the time we published these facts, we were led by ihe discovery here of fresh- 

 water shells, in such a position, to think that some estuary deposits of doubtful age, near 

 the mouth of Judiih River, on the Missouri, from which Dr. Leidy had described some 

 Saurian remains resembling Wealden types, might be older than Tertiary. Later ex. 

 aminations, however, have demonstrated, that the Judith beds contain an entirely different 

 group of fossils from those found in the rock under consiaeration.and that they are really 

 of Tertiary age, and hold a position at the base of the Great Lignite series uf the north- 

 west. 



1861.] 28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Amongst Capt. Raynolds' collections now before us, from the head of Wind 

 River Valley, we also recognize, from a precisely similar bed, fragments of a 

 Unio. with great numbers of a Melania, and a beautiful little NeriteUa, which, 

 although completely mineralized, retains it original zig-zag bands of dark and 

 light colors.* The bed containing these fossils, here, like that at the Black 

 Hills, rests directly upon the Jurassic strata, and appears to dip beneath the 

 Cretaceous, while its fossils are in exactly the same state of preservation as those 

 collected at the Black Hills. As it differs at both these localities in its iitho- 

 logical characters from all of the well-defined Tertiary beds of the northwest ; 

 and its fossils are not only clearly distinct from the known Tertiary forms of 

 that region, but all present a more ancient aspect, we are still inclined to think 

 it really holds a position near the lower part of the Cretaceous series of that 

 region. 



Until this can be determined, however, upon stratigraphical evidence, we do 

 not feel warranted in assigning this formation a place in the general section of 

 the Cretaceous rocks of the northwest, since it may prove to be of Tertiary, or 

 even possibly of Jurassic age. For, as all palaeontologists are aware, the re- 

 mains of fresh-water mollusca cannot be relied upon in determining the age 

 of sti'ata, excepting where they happen to be specifically identical with forms 

 known to occur elsewhere iu well established horizons. This arises from the 

 fact that they are very similar in rocks of all ages in which they are known to 

 occur, or at least that they do not present peculiar distinctive features in dif- 

 ferent formations, in so marked a degree as marine shells. 



Since the first publication of a general section of Nebraska Cretaceous Rocks, 

 based upon observations made by us in 1853, while on an expedition for Prof. 

 Hall, and subsequently published by him and one of the writers, (F. B. M.), in 

 the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,! our knowledge 

 of the range and thickness of these rocks, as well as of their relations tc each 

 other, and to Creiaceous beds elsewhere, has been much extended. We have 

 also been able, from the collections subsequently brought in by various expe- 

 ditions from localities scattered over wide areas, not merely to add largely to 

 the number of species previously known to be embraced in the Cretaceous 

 fauna of this region, but we have also extended our knowledge of their geo- 

 graj)hical distribution and vertical range. Consequently we have now the 

 means of constructing a section of these rocks that will give a more clear and 

 accurate idea of the relative importance and thickness of the subdivisions, as 

 well of their relations to each other and of each to the whole. 



Hitherto in all the sections of these rocks published, the subdivisions have 

 been designated merely by the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Experience has 

 taught us that inconvenience and confusion are apt to arise from the use of 

 this kind of a nomenclature, because these larger groups are constantly liable 

 to be confounded with unimportant subdivisions of local sections, to which 

 it is almost indispensably necessary to apply numbers. This being the case, 

 we propose to designate each of these formations by a distinct name, retain- 

 ing, however, opposite each name the same number formerly used for each 

 group. In selecting names, we have preferred those derived from localities 

 to such as might be suggested by the liihological or palaeontological cha- 

 racters of the different rocks ; because, however appropriate such a name as 

 "Inoceramus Bed" or " Silicious Group" may be for a formation at a given 

 locality, it will generally be found inapplicable if we attempt to trace the rock 

 over areas of any great extent. Our names have also been selected from localities 

 where the particular formation named is known to be well developed, and 

 readily recognizable. In accordance with these views, we present the follow- 

 ing section ; — 



* Descriptions of the latter two fossils are given in another part of this paper, 

 t Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci„ Boston, vol. v, N. S., p. 381. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



419 



General Section of the Cretaceous Rocks of Nebraska. 



SrVISIONS AND Sdbdivisions. 



C-r; tf. 



■a o 





Gray, ferruginous aud yellowish sandstotie and 

 arenaceiius clwys, tiintaXQmg BelemnittUa hulbosa, 

 J^autitus Dekiiyi, Ammonites placenta, A. lohatus, 

 Scaj)iiitcs Conrculi. S. Ificollrtti, Baculites yran- 

 di.t, Busycon Bairdi, Fusus CuWertsoni, F. New- 

 berryi, Apmrhuis Americana, Pseudo-huccinum 

 Ntbrascenns, Mactra ^Vamnana, Cardium sub- 

 quudratum, aud a great number of other mol- 

 lUiicous fossils, together with bones of i/osasai(r«s 

 MSiouriensis, Ac. 



Fox Hills, near Mo- 

 reau Kiver, — near 

 Long Lake above Fort 

 Pierre. Along base 

 Bi,:; Horn Mountains, 

 and on North and 

 South i'latte Ilivers. 





Dark gray ami bluish filaslic clays, contiiining 

 near the upper part, Nautilus Dtkayi, Ammonilvs 

 placenta, Baculites ovalus, B. cninpressus, Sca- 

 phites nodosus, Dentalium gracile, Crassuttlla 

 Ecansi, Cacullcea Nebrascemis, Inoceramus Sa- 

 gensis, I. JVebrasc^nsis, I. Vanuxemi, Bones of Mo- 

 sasauTus Missoui-iansis, &c., &c., &C. 



Middle zone nearly barren of fossils. 



Lower fossiliferous zone, containing Ammonites 

 complexus, Bdculitei ovalus, B. compressus, Ileli- 

 coceras Mortuni, H. toi turn, H. umliibcalum, H. 

 cochleatum, Itychoceras Murloni, Fasus vinculum, 

 Anisomyon horealis, Amauropsis paludiniforinis, 

 Inoceramus sublaevus, I. ienuilintatus, bones of 

 M'isasaurus Missoariensis. &c. 



Dark bed of very fine unctuous clay, containing 

 much carbonaceous matter, with veins aud seams 

 of gypsum, masses suiphuret iron and numerous 

 small sciiles fiihes. Local ; filling deiiressions in 

 the bed below. 



Sage Creek, Chey- 

 enne Kiver and on 

 White Kiver above 

 the Mauvaises Terres. 



Fort Pierre and out 

 to Bad Lands, — doWn 

 the MissoViri on the 

 high country to Great 

 Bend. 



Great Bend of the 

 Missouri, below Fort 

 Pierre. 



Near Bijou Hill, on 

 the Mi.-souri. 



■s s 



Lead gray calcareous marl, weathering to a 

 yellowish or whitish chalky appearance above. 

 Coutaiijiiig large scales and other lemaius of 

 fishes, and numerous species of O strea congeMa at- 

 tached to fragments of Inoceramus. Passing 

 down into light, yellowish and whitish limestone, 

 containing great numbers of Inoceramus pro- 

 bUmaticus, I. psciuio-myliloides, I. aviculoides and 

 Ostrea congtstii, fish scales, Ac. 



o?: 



5a 



Dark gray laminated clays, sometimes alternat- 

 ing near the upper part with seams and layers 

 of soft gray aud light-colored limestone. Inoce- 

 ramus problematicus, I. tcnuirostratus. I. latus? I. 

 frugilis, Ostrea cmgesta, Venilia Murloni, Fltola- 

 domya papyracea. Ammonites Muliani, K. percari- 

 natus, A.vesperlinus* Scapltites Wdrreni, S.larvm- 

 /ormis, S. ventricosus, S. vermi/ormis, Nautilus 

 elegans ? &c. 



Blufi's along the 

 Missouri below the 

 Great Bend, to the 

 vicinity of Big Sioux 

 Kiver ; a'so below 

 there on the tops of 

 the bills. 





Yellowish, reddish and occasionally white sand- 

 stone, with at places, alternations of various 

 colored clays and beds and seams of impure lig- 

 nite. Also silicificd wood, and great numbers of 

 leaves of the higher types of diC'tyledonous 

 trees: with casts of Pharelia ? Dakotensis, Axi- 

 naea Siouxensis, and Cyprina artnurea. 



Extensively devel- 

 oped near f ort Ben- 

 ton on the Upper 

 Missouri; also along 

 the latter, from ten 

 miles above James 

 Kiver to Big Sioux 

 River, and along the 

 eastern slope of the 

 Rncky Mountains, as 

 Well as at the Black 

 Hills. 



Hills back of the 

 town of Dakot;v : also 

 extensively developed | 

 in the surrounding 

 country in Dakota 

 Counly below the 

 mouth of Big Sioux 

 Kiver, — thence ex- 

 tending southward 

 into Northeiustern 

 Kansas and bevord. 



*This is A. Texanus of Roemer. It is on the authority of Mr. Gabb that ii is here 

 regarded as identical with A. vesperiinus of Morion. We should never have suspected 

 this from Dr. Morton's figure, but Mr. Gabb assures us that afer a careful comparison 

 of Dr Mortou's specin en, he can see no difference. 



1861.] 




420 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Geologists will understand that we do not regard the several rocks to which 

 we have applied the names " Dakota Group, Fort Benton Group," &c., as being 

 always separately and individually recognizable at widely distant parts of the 

 world, nor even in all cases throughout North America. They are, merely, 

 convenient subdivisions, presenting more or less marked lithological and pa- 

 lEBontological peculiarities, due to physical agencies that were probably, in 

 some instances, comparatively local in their action ; though in other cases we 

 have been able to identify the equivalents of some of them, as we have shown 

 on former occasions, in New Jersey, Alabama and New Mexico.* When we 

 wish to draw parallels between these rocks and those of the Cretaceous System 

 of the Old World, however, we find it necessary to group them together, so far 

 as our present knowledge extends, into two, or at any rate, not more than three 

 principal series. 



Dakota Group. — Although we still retain this as a distinct rock, our present 

 impression is, that it is probably only a subdivision or member of the Fort Benton 

 Group. Still, until more fossils can be obtained from it in the region of the typi- 

 cal localities, the question whether or not it should rank as a distinct formation 

 must remain an open one. That it is at least as old as the Fort Benton Group, 

 however, is clearly demonstrated by its position beneath some two hnndred feet 

 of that rock near the mouth of Big Sioux River, where the latter formation is 

 seen to pass beneath the Niobrara Division. This order of superposition is also 

 known to prevail throughout a considerable area in north-eastern Kansas, and 

 south eastern Nebraska, as may be seen at hundreds of localities where all the 

 strata lie in a nearly horizontal position. 



That this rock cannot be referred to any older epoch than the Cretaceous, is 

 also equally clear fromthe modern affinities of numerous fossil leaves embedded 

 in it. Amongst these remains Dr. Newberry and Prof. Heer,have identified the 

 genera Populus, Saliz, Alnus, Platanus, Liriodendron, &c., ifecf The few animal 

 remains yet found in it are merely casts of shells referable to the genera Pha- 

 rella, Axinaea, Mactra and Cyprina. 



Along the Missouri, in the region of the mouth of Big Sioux River, and below, 

 this rock consists mainly of yellowish and reddish sandstones, in rather thick 

 beds, interstratified, however, at places, with beds of yellow and ash-colored 

 clays, and impure lignite. In this region it is generally quite distinct from the 

 Fort Pierre Group above, but farther south, in Kansas, the two rocks seem to 

 be less distinct, while at the Black Hills and along the Rocky Mountains west of 

 there, the whole appears to be represented at places by a series of alternating 

 sandstones and clays. 



Below the mouth of Big Sioux River, this formation is seen at some localities 

 resting directly upon the limestones of the Coal Measures ; but in north-eastern 

 Kansas it usually reposes on a series of reddish and various colored clays, 

 probably of Jurassic age. Near the Black Hills, and along the Rocky Mountains 

 west of there, apparently representative beds were usually seen to be immedi- 

 ately underlaid by well marked Juiassic strata, excepting at the localities 

 where the brackish-water deposits already mentioned, appear to intervene be- 

 tween them and the Jurassic. J 



This rock has not yet been satisfactorily recognized on the upper Missouri, 

 though there is a similar formation near the mouth of Judith River and below 

 there, which we have sometimes thought may possibly represent it. Until we 

 can know more, however, in regard to the relations of the Judith River bed to 

 the other rocks of the series in that region, and have an opportunity to examine 

 more of its fossils, it would be unsafe to refer it to the Dakota Group. The 



•See Proceed Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., Nov., 1856, p. 267, and May, 1857. 



t Proceed. Acad., Dec, 1858 ; Am. Journ. Sci., New Sen, vol. xxvii, 1859 ; also March, 

 1S60. 



t I'his brackish-water bed we think probably belongs to the formation under consid- 

 eration, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



fossils collected from the sandstone here alluded to, near the Judith River, 

 belong to the genus Inoceramus, Tancredia, Mactra, Baculites, &c.; all of which 

 are distinct from the species yet obtained from any of the known horizons 

 elsewhere. 



In our paper of May, 1857, we pointed out that the Dakota Group, (which we 

 then designated as formation No. 1,) is repres'.'nted in New Jersey and Alabama, 

 by a series of more or less arenaceous clays and sandstones, with lignite and 

 leaves of dicotyledonous trees.* Since that time Dr. Newberry has traced 

 it from near the Arkansas River, in Kansas Territory, by the remains of its 

 characteristic flora, far into New Mexico, where he found it surmounted by a 

 great thickness of well marked Cretaceous rocks. f Dr. Shumard also thinks he 

 can recognize it in Texas at the base of the Cretaceous series of that state. \ 



FoKT Benton Group. — This formation usually consists of dark grey lamina- 

 ted clays, with thin lighter colored arenaceous partings, and layers and beds of 

 sandstone. Towards the upper part, near its connection with the Niobrara 

 Division above, it sometimes includes intercalated laj^ers of grey lime.-^tone in 

 all respects similar to the lower portion of the overlying rock ; while at some 

 other places its upper portion passes into a dark shale. It seems to attain its 

 greatest thickness in the vicinit}' of Fort Benton, where the entire hills eight 

 or nine hundred feet in height appear to be composed of it. Until we can have 

 more e.xact information, however, in regard to the range of the organic remains, 

 through this great thickness of strata, we must have some doubts in regard to 

 ■whether there m.ay not also be some representation here of the Dakota Group. 



This seems to be the more probable, when we bear in mind that the rock 

 under consideration, becomes, as already stated, blended with tlie latter for- 

 mation further south at the Black Hills, and along the Rocky Mountains west 

 of thenn. 



The Fort Benton Group has a wide geographical extension in the country 

 west of the Mississippi, — though neither it nor the succeeding rock above, ap- 

 pears to have any well defined representatives as a distinct formation in Ala- 

 bama, New Jersej' and other states east of the Mississippi, as was pointed out 

 by us in May, iS57.§ The highest northern locality at which we have any 

 knowledge of its existence is on the north branch of the Saskatchewan, some 

 thirty or forty miles west of Fort a la Come, near lat. 54 north, where Prof. 

 Hinde discovered specimens which were referred by one of us, (F. B. M.,) to 

 this horizon. II We had also previously referred to the same position some 

 specimens discovered by Prof. S. I. Dawson at a locality 250 miles west of Fort 

 Garry, ou the Assiniboine River. ^ 



It is known to occur in north-eastern Kansas, as well as in Arkansas, and in 

 1857 we pointed out that it is probably represented by one of the beds in Mr. 

 Marcou's section of Pyramid Mountain, in the far south-west. Dr. Newberry's 

 investigations, in connection with Lieut. Ives' Expedition, seem to show that it 



*Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philad., Mar., 1857, p. 117; also, see page 426, of this paper. 



t American Journal Sci. Sec. Ser. vol. xxix, p. '208, March, 18fiO. 



X See an important paper on ihe Geology of Texas, by Dr. B. F. Shumard, in Trans. 

 St. Louis Acad. Sci., Vol. i. p. 582. It is a source of much regret to ihose interested in 

 the progress of geological science in this country, ihat circumstances have prevented 

 this able geologist from compjetmg the survey of Texas. 



?VV'e have sometimes suspected that the bed in New Jersey containing Venilia Conradi, 

 Scaphiles Idppociepis, and I'holadomya occidentalis, Morton, might belong lo tins horizon, 

 from the analogy of ihes.' species to some of our far western Fort Benton Group forms, 

 but we have been assured that they occur in i\ew Jersey, mingled with other species 

 only found in our upper <.'reiaceous beds of Nebraska. 



II See Prof Hind's Report on Saskatchewan and Assiniboine, Expl, Exp. p. 179. Toron- 

 to, 1859. 



H See Prof. Dawson's Report on Explorations of the country between Lake Superior 

 and the Red River Settlements, p. 18. Toronto, 1859. 



1861.J 




422 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



is extensively developpdin New Mexico; tliongh it appears there to be gjenerally 

 inseparsiblj blended with the Niobrara Division, the two forming together the 

 middle division of his section of the Cretaceous of New Jlexico, which attains a 

 thickness of from twelve to fifteen hundred feet. Dr. Shumard has also identi- 

 fied it in Texas, where it is apparently quite thin.* 



All the facts show that this rock thins out, both in the south, and at the 

 north, in an easterly direction, its greatest, thickness being at Fort Benton, and 

 along the mountains south of there, and in New Mexico ; while on the Missouri, 

 between James and Big Sioux Rivers, it is only about one hundred feet in thick- 

 ness, and Dr. Shumard gives fifty feet as its thickness in his Texas section. 



This formation contains a number of interesting organic remains, some of 

 which are known to have a wide geographical range, and, as may be seen by 

 the fo'-egoing section, also pass up into the succeeding rock above. We also 

 have reason to believe that several of them likewise occur further south, in the 

 formation below, thus apparently linking together, as already suggested, these 

 three rocks as subordinate members of one great series. At any rate, the fos- 

 sils described by Dr. Shumard from the " Marly Clay, or Red River Group" of 

 his Texa^ section, which we think he has correctly placed on a parallel with 

 our Dakota Group (=No. 1 of former sections), arc both individually, and as a 

 group, apparently very closely allied to forms occurring in the formation under 

 consideration, in Nebraska. For instance, his Iiioceramus capulus is scarcely 

 distinguishable, as he has suggested, from our /. M?H6onrt/Ms ; and we think it 

 probable his Ainmonilen Graysonmsis is not distinct from A. percarinaius, Hall & 

 Meek. Again, his Scaphites vermiculus is allied to our S. larvcvformis. 



Niobrara Division. — The typical localities of this rock are along the Mis- 

 souri, near the mouth of Niobrara river, where it forms perpendicular cliffs 

 from ninety to one hundred feet in height. In this region it consists mainly of 

 lead grn}- richly calcareous marl, which, where long exposed, assumes a light 

 buff or whitish color, and presents much the appearance of true chalk. Below, 

 it passes into more compact beds of soft bluish gray limestone. It is first seen 

 in descending the Missouri, a short distance below the Great Bend, where it 

 rises by a gentle dip from beneath the succeeding formation (the Fort Pierre 

 Grouj)). Further down the river it is seen to rise higher and higher, and gra- 

 dually assumes the character of a surface rock, not far below the mouth of Nio- 

 brara river. When much exposed to the action of the weather, here and on Little 

 Blue river, near the northern boundary of Kansas, it becomes a rather hard 

 whitish limestone. 



This formation can be traced by exposures in north-eastern Kansas, near 

 Little Blue and Smoky Hill rivers, through Arkansas into Texas and New 

 Mexico. In 1857 we pointed out that it is represented by the upper beds of 

 Mr. Marcou's Pyramid Mountain Section; and Dr. Shumard has placed the 

 "Washita Limestone," and " Indurated Gray Marl" of his Texas section, on a 

 parallel with it and two of the same beds in Mr. Marcou's section. 



At the Black Hills this rock sometimes presents its normal appearance, but 

 generally there, as well as along the Rocky .Mountains further west, it is scarce- 

 ly distinguishable lithologically from the formation below. The fossils hither- 

 to found in it in Nebraska, are Ostrea conyesta, Trioceramics problemaiicus, I. avi- 

 culoidcs, and a small Baculitc, together with large scales of fishes. All excepting 

 the fish scales being identical with species found in the strata beneath. In- 

 ocercnivis pro hi ematicus, or at least a form scarcely distinguishable from that 

 species, and Ostrea cor? f/esta, occur in it almost every where that it has been met 

 with. 



In TexHS, Dr. Shumard found in the bed he places on a parallel with this 

 formation, Jlolaster simplex, Epiaster elegans, Cidaris hemigranosiis, Gryphcea 

 Pitcheri (common variety and G. Tucumcarii) G. sinuata,]s\&T com (notSowerby), 



* Transactions St. Louis Academy Sciences, vol. 1, p. 583. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Ostrea subovata (=0. Marshii, Marcou), 0. carinata, 0. quadriplicala, Janira Tex- 

 ana, J. Wriffhtii, Inoceramus problematicus, Pachymya Austinensis, Lima crenulico- 

 sta, Terebratula Wacoensis, Turrilites Brazoensis, \4.mmonues Texanu.s, A. Brazo- 

 ensis, Ilamites Fremonti, and Nautilus Texanus. 



Relations of the Lower Cretaceous series of Nebraska to subdi- 

 visions AT foreign localities. — Having now considered, in the order of their 

 succession, the several rocks embraced in the Lower Series of the Nebraska 

 Cretaceous deposits, and endeavored as far as our present means of investigating 

 the subject enables us to do, to trace out their relations to the Cretaceous beds 

 of other parts of this country, it will be interesting to see how nearly their syn- 

 chronism with known horizons in the Cretaceous system of the old world can 

 be trat-ed out. With this view we have carefully compared with European 

 forms all the fossils in the several Nebraska collections from these rocks, in- 

 cluding those most recently obtained, to which the new species described in 

 this paper belong. These comparisons have satisfied us that the formations 

 under consideration, — that is, the Niobrara Division, Fort Benton Group, and 

 the Dakota Group, represent together the Lower or Gray Chalk, and probably 

 the Upper Green Sand of British geologists (= Turonien and Cenomanien, of D'Or- 

 bigny.) AVe had in 1856, identified the Gray Chalk species Inoceramus problema- 

 ticus in the Niobrara Division (No. 3 of former sections), and suggested that this 

 rock probably holds a position at about the horizon of the Lower Chalk of the 

 old world.* More recently we had likewise mentioned that we regarded Am- 

 monites percarinatus, Hall & Meek, as being probably identical with the well 

 known Lower Chalk species A. Woolgari of Mantell.f These facts, however, 

 had not so forcibly attracted our attention until we commenced the investiga- 

 tion of the collections containing the new species described in this paper. 



The evidence upon which we have placed these rocks on a parallel wi'h the 

 Lower or Gray Chalk of British geologists, will be more clearly understood by 

 consulting the following list of species from them, which are either identical 

 with, or so closely allied to, species found in that position in the old world, as 

 to be safely regarded we think, as contemporaneous representative forms : — 



Found in the Lower Series of Nebraska. European Lower Chalk species. 



Ammonites vespertinus Mort., .represents A. Rhotomagensis Defr., & other L. Chk. sp. 



A. per carina tiisR. &M probably ident. with A. TFooZ^yan of Mantell. 



Scaphites Warreni M. & H.,... scarcely distinct from S. cegualis Sowerby. 



S. larvceformis M. & H., same type as " " 



Nautilus elcgans var., can scarcely be distinct from N. elegans Sowerby. 



Inoceramus latus? appears to be the same as /. latus of Mantell. 



Inoceramus problematicus% can not be distinguished from /. problematicus, 



[Schlot. sp. 



Inoceramus problematicus is most frequently met with in the Niobrara division, 

 but is also sometimes found in the Fort Benton Group: all the others are 

 generally peculiar to the latter rock in Nebraska. Inoceramus latus, Ammonites 

 vespertinus, and a species very closely allied to Nautilus elegans, are found 

 in Texas in beds apparently representing the Niobrara division. Other species 

 from our Lower series of Nebraska similar to Lower Chalk forms of the old 

 world, might be mentioned, but the foregoing list includes the most striking 

 examples. 



We may, however, state that, with a few doubtful exceptions, nearly all the 

 other species yet known in the lower series of Nebraska Cretaceous rocks, pre- 

 sent much nearer aflSnities to Lower Chalk forms than to species holding a 



* Proceed. Acad. Nat; Sci. Phila. Nov. 1856, p. 267. 



t Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. October, 1860. p. 419. Mr.Gabb has also suggested in 

 a note to p. 129, of his Synopsis ot Cret. Foss. that the rocks under consideration may re- 

 present the Lower Chalk of England. 



tThis species is said to also occur in the Upper Green Sand of Europe. 



1861.] 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



higher position in the Cretaceous of the Old World. The most important ex- 

 ception to this rule we have met with is Inoceramus umhonatus, which is evi- 

 dently closely allied to /. involutus of Sowerby, from the Upper or White Chalk. 

 There still remains, however, some doubts in regard to the position of this 

 fossil in the Nebraska formations, no specimens of it having yet been col- 

 lected in situ by any person familiar with the order of succession of the Nebraska 

 rocks. 



Upper Cretaceous Series of Nebraska. 



Fort Pierre Group. — In the foregoing review of the Lower Series of Ne- 

 braska Cretiiceons rocks, it has been shown that the subdivisions often shade 

 into each other lithologically, and that at least the upper two members, are so 

 intimately related by the range and affinities of their organic remains as to 

 indicate that they are merely subordinate formations of one great series, or 

 primary division of the Cretaceous system. There seems to be no horizon at 

 which we can, upon palarontological principles, draw a sharp line separating 

 the beds below from those above, until we ascend to the top of the Niobrara 

 Division. In crossing this line, however, we not only generally observe a 

 marked lithological change, but, so far as our present knowledge extends, we 

 meet with the remains of an entirely diff^^rent group of animals. It is true, 

 nearly or quite all the genera seen in the beds below, are still observed, along 

 with many others in the strata above this horizon ; but the species yet found 

 in these upper formations, in Nebraska at least, are all distinct from those 

 hitherto found in the lower series. 



We are aware that fuither investigations may possibly show closer relations 

 between the organic remains of the upper and lower series of these rocks in 

 this region than have been hitherto discovered. Yet, when it is borne in mind 

 that our conclusions are based upon a careful study and comparison of exten- 

 sive collections from numerous localities, scattered over a great area of country, 

 it will be readily understood how very improbable it is that future explorations 

 will materially modify these results. 



At the base of the Fort Pierre group, — the inferior member of the upper 

 series of Nebraska Cretaceous rocks, — there is, at some localities along the 

 Missouri below the Great Bend, a local bed ten to thirty feet in thickness, com- 

 posed of very dark unctuous clay, containing great numbers of small scales of 

 fishes, much iron pyrites and carbonaceous matter, with crystals, veins and 

 seams of sulphate of lime. This bed usually occupies depressions in the pre- 

 viously eroded upper surface of the formation beneath. 



With the exception of the local deposit just mentioned, the Fort Pierre Group 

 consists of a vast accumulation of fine graj' and dark colored clays in mode- 

 rately distinct layers, but never presents a laminated or slaty structure like 

 the Fort Benton Group. When wet, these clays are soft and plastic, but in 

 drying they often crack and crumble so as to obliterate the marks of deposi- 

 tion in vertical exposures. 



This formation composes all the hills on both sides of the Missouri at Fort 

 Pierre, and much of the country between there and tbe Bad Lands. It also 

 forms the bluffs along the river below Fort Pierre to the Great Bend, just be- 

 low which the Niobrara Division rises above the level of the Missouri. From 

 the Great Bend down to the mouth of Niobrara River, the country is made up 

 of these two formations, which rise with the general inclination of all the rocks 

 in this region, so that the Fort Pierre Group finally runs out in the form of out- 

 liers on the tops of the hills below the mouth of Niobrara River. Above Fort 

 Pierre, it gradually sinks beneath the Fox Hills Group in the region of Chey- 

 enne and Moreau Rivers, but continues to be seen in the bluffs of the Missouri 

 and oilier streams for some distance beyond. 



On the Upper Missotiri, this formation comes 1o the surface again, and forms 

 much of the country in the region of Milk and Muscle IShell Rivers. It is also 

 known to extend far up into the British possessions, — some of its fossils having 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



been discovered on tbe Saskatchewan by an expedition sent out by the Cana- 

 dian Government in 1858, under the direction of Prof. S. J. Dawson.* 



Several of the characteristic fossils of this formation were also discovered, in 

 1858, on the South Branch of the Saskatchewan, as well as on the Assiniboine 

 and Little Souris Rivers, by another Canadian Governmeat expedition, under 

 the charge of Prof. Henry Y. Hind.f 



This formation is also known to be well developed at the Black Hills and 

 along the Rocky Mountains west of there in Nebraska, and extends southward 

 at least as far as the region of Pike's Peak. It also exists in Texas, though it 

 probably only occurs as thin local patches in the country between the Rocky 

 Jlountains and the Mississippi south of Nebraska. We had pointed out its pro- 

 bable existence in Texas in 1856 ■% and Dr. Shumard has, as we think, correctly 

 placed on a parallel with it the " Austin Limestone" and " Fish-bed" of his 

 section of the Texas Cretaceous rocks. § 



The Fort Pierre Group is also known to be represented on the western bor- 

 ders of North America, or more properly, on Vancouver Island, as well as on 

 Sucia Islands in the Gulf of Georgia. || 



Coming eastward we find it again represented in New Jersey, and extending 

 thence through into Alabama and other Southern States. As long back as 

 1834, Dr. Morton had suggested in his Synopsis of Organic Remains, p. 25, 

 that tbe beds at the Great Bend of the Missouri, are probably on a parallel 

 with the Green Sand of New Jersey. The identity of a few of the Nebraska 

 Cretaceous fossils with New Jersey species, was also pointed out by Prof. Hall, 

 and one of the writers (F. B. M.) in a paper published in the .Memoirs of the 

 American Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. 5, N. S., p. 406, 1854; though 

 too little was then kno-vn in regard to the range of the fossils in the Nebraska 

 beds, to warrant any attempt at drawing parallels between subdivisions. 



In Nov., 1856, after we had ascertained with soiue degree of accuracy the 

 position and range of particular species in the Nebraska series, and had learned 

 from the New Jersey Reports and from Prof. Cook, the range of the same forms 

 in New Jersey, we remarked that " the occurrence of several of the more 

 common and characteristic fossils of the upper two Nebraska formations, [Fort 

 Pierre Group and Fox Hill Beds,] snch a.s Ammonites placenta, Scaphifr.^ Con- 

 radi, Baculites ovalus, Nautilus Dekayi,^' &c., in the first and second Green Sand 

 beds, and the intervening ferruginous stratum in New Jersey, as well as in the 

 " Rotten Limestone" of Alabama, clearly indicates the synchronism of these 

 deposits, notwithstanding their widely separated geographical positions.^ 



In May, 1857, we also submitted to the Academy another paper in which we 

 discussed more at length the relations of the Nebraska Cretaceous rocks 

 to those of New Jersey and other States, giving at the same time fur com- 

 parison a section of the Cretaceous strata of Alabama, furnished by Prof. 

 Winchell, another of those in Northeastern Kansas, by Mr. Hawn, and a third 

 of the same in New Jersey, compiled from the Reports of Prof. Ketchell and 

 Prof. Cook,** 



* See Report Exploration of the Country between Lake Superior and the Red River 

 Settlement. Toronto, 1859, page 18. 



t For figures and descriptions of these fossils, see a paper by one of the writers in 

 Professor Hind's Report of the Saskatchewan and Assiniboine Expedition, page 182. 

 Toronto, 18o9. 



t See note appended to the extra copies distributed by us, of a paper read before the 

 Academy, in IVov., 1856. 



g Observations upon the Cretaceous Strata of Texas, by B. F. Shumard, M. D./State 

 Geologist. Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., vol. 1, page 583. 



11 See paper by F. B. Meek, describing Cretaceous fossils from Vancouver Island, in 

 Trans. Albany Institute, read Dec, 1856. Also another paper by same, in Proceed. 

 Acad Nat. Sc:. Phila., for Oct., 1861, On the Collections of N. W. Boundary Survey. 



<[f Proceed. Acad. Nat l^ci. Phila., November. 18 )6, p. 267. 

 ** Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., May, 1857, p. 117. 



1861.] 




426 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



As the last mentioned section of the New Jersey rocks will aid in the clear 

 understanding of remarks and comparisons in other portions of this paper, we 

 reproduce it below as originally published by us in the paper last above cited. 

 The reader will understand that by formations No. 1, No, 4 and No. 5 of Ne- 

 braska, in the right-hand column, we referred to the Dakota Group, the Fort 

 Pierre Group and the Fox Hills Beds of this paper; — the intermediate No. 2 

 and No. .3, (Fort Benton Group and Niobrara Division,) being probably wanting 

 in New Jersey. 



New Jersey Section Compiled from the Reports of that State, 





Green Sand. 60 ft. 



" The sand between the second and third beds has usually been con- 

 founded with beach sand, which it closely resembles." 45 or 50 ft. 



Yellow limestone. 



Green Sand, Scaphiics Conradi, Baculites ovatus, Ammonites 

 placenta. 45 or 50 fr. 



Sand " much colored with oxyd of iron, and when sufficiently 

 firm is found almost full of the impression of shells." Delemnites 

 mucronatus.* 65 or 70 ft. 



Green Sand, iVaM^i7M« Dekayi, Baculites ovatus, Belemnites mucro- 

 naius,* and bones of Mosasaurus. 50 ft. 



Dark clays with "occasional streaks and irregular spots of green 

 sand." Ammonites placenta, Baculites ovatus, &c. &c. 130 ft. 



Dark blue, ash colored, and whitish clays, and micaceous sand, 

 with thin seams of coal. Great quantities of sulphuret of iron. 

 " Fossil wood is found in some of the layers in large quantities, and 

 some very distinct impressions of net-veined leaves were examined in 

 the clay at French's landing." 130 ft. or more. 



3z 



In an able and lucid article by Prof. Hall, on the distribution of the Creta- 

 ceous rocks of America, and their relations at distantly separated localities, 

 published in the American Journal of Science, July, 1857, it will be seen he 

 has arrived at nearly the same conclusions in regard to the Nebraska and N. 

 Jersey beds. He likewise draws the same parallels in an elaborate article in 

 the first vol. of the Report on the U. S. and Mexican Boundary Survey, pub- 

 lished during the summer of 1858. f 



The Fort Pierre Group generally abounds in fossils in Nebraska, though they 

 are not equally distributed through the whole formation, there being an upper 

 and a lower fossiliferous zone, while a considerable thickness of the middle 

 beds usually contains few organic remains. Its fossils are generally found in a 



* BelemnilcUa mncronata. 



t This volume of ihe Mexican Boundary Report bears the date of 1857 on the title- 

 page, but it was not actually published until the summer of 1858. See American Journal 

 of Science and Arts for July, 1869, p. 149. 



[Deo. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



fiae state of preservation, — the nacre of many of the shells being as brilliant 

 as whfn the anim.ils were livino;. In this latter respect they present a marked 

 contrast with the dnil appearance of those from the formations below. In most 

 cases they are found enveloped in very hard, dark argillo-calcareous concretions, 

 from a few inches to several feet in diameter. Those occurring in the lower 

 fossiliferous zone, at the base, are, Mosasaurus Missouriensis, Callianassa Dance, 

 Ammonites complexus, Baculiles ovatus and B. compressus, Hilicoceras Morloni, H. 

 cochlpntum, H. tortum, 11. umbilicalum, Fusiis viniculum, F. Shumardi, Buccinum 

 constrictum, Amauropsis paludinwformis, Anisomyon borealis, Inoceramus sublmvis, 

 I. incurviis, &c. &c. 



In the upper fossiliferous zone, organic remains are more abundant than in 

 the lower ; the following list contains the names of many of those usually found 

 at this horizon, viz., — bones of Mosasaurus Missouriensis, with Nautilus Dekayi, 

 Ammonites placenta, Scaphites nodosus, S. Nicolletii, BacuUtes ovatus, B. compressus, 

 Apti/chus Chei/ennensis, Fusus subturritus, F. ? tenuilineatus. Gladius ? Cheyennemis, 

 Margarita Nebrasceiisis, Dentalium gracile, Tectura occidcntalis, Anisojnyon patel- 

 Hformis, A. alveolus. Bulla Nebrascensis,\ Xylophaga elegantula, Corhulamella gre- 

 garea, Cardium rarum, Lucina occidcntalis, Crassaiella. Evansi, Modiola 3Ieekii, 

 Inoceramus convexus, I. Morioni, I. Nebrasceiisis, I. Sagensis, I. Vanuxemi, &c. &C. 

 Several of these fossils pass up into the formation above. 



Fox Hills Beds. — This formation is generally more arenaceous than the 

 Fort Pierre Group, and also differs in presenting a more yellowish or ferrugi- 

 nous tinge. Towards the base it consists of sandy clays, but as we ascend to 

 the higher beds, we find the arenaceous matter increasing, so that at some 

 places the whole passes into a sandstone. It is not sepaiated by any strongly 

 defined line of demarcation from the formation below, the change from the fine 

 clavs of the latter to the more sandy material above, being usually very gradual. 

 Nor are these two formations distinguished by any abrupt change in the organic 

 remains, since several of the fossils occurring in the upper beds of the Fort 

 Pierre Group pass up into the Fox Hill.i Beds, while at some localities we find 

 a complete mingling in the same bed of the forms usually found at these two 

 horizons. Indeed, we might with almost equal propriety, on pala?onto!ogical 

 principles, carry the line separating these two formations down so as to include 

 the upper fossiliferous zone of the Fort Pierre Group, as we have defined it, in 

 the formation above. All the facts, however, so far as our present information 

 goes, — taking into consideration the change in the sediments at or near where 

 we have placed the line between these two rocks, — seem to luark this as 

 about the horizon where we find evidences of the greatest break in the con- 

 tinuity of physical conditions. 



The formation under consideration is most distinctly marked at Fox Hills, 

 between Cheyenne and Moreau Rivers, above Fort Pierre ; and it also extends 

 across upon the opposite side of the iMii^souri, in the region of Long Lake. It 

 likewise immediately underlies the Tertiary bone beds of the Mauvaiscs Terres 

 at Sage Creek and other places in the vicinity of White River, but is not very 

 fossiliferous, so far as known, in that region. At a single locality on the Yel- 

 low Stone River, about one hundred and fifty miles from its mouth, there is a 

 low exposure having the lithological characters of tlie Fort Pierre Group, but 

 containing a complete mingling of the fossils usually found in the upper part 

 of that rock, with those generally occurring in this. 



On the Upper Missouri, in the region ofMussel Shell and Milk Rivers, the 

 Fox Hills Beds do not seem to be very well defined as a distinct rock. A few 

 specimens, however, apparently from this horizon, were collected by Prof. 



t Phis species we liad named B. occidentalis, in our paper of March, 1856. As that 

 name had previously been used for a recent species of this genus by A. Adams, it be- 

 comes necessary to give our shell another name, and we now propose to call it B.Ne- 

 brascensis. 



1861.] 




428 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Hind's Exploring Expedition in the British Possessions, on the South Branch of 

 the Saskatchewan ; and, what is a little remarkable, they occur in a green 

 sand matrix, much like that in New Jersey, excepting that it is more in- 

 durated. 



At the Black Hills, and along the Rocky Mountains west of there, the Fox 

 Hills Beds are generally well developed. They also occur at Deer Creek on the 

 North Platte, and along the mountains southward at least to the region of 

 Pike's Peak. South of this they have not yet been certainly identified as a 

 distinct rock. 



As already stated, we had pointed out, in Nov., 185G, and in May, 1857, that 

 this rock is represented by the upper portion of the Cretaceous beds in New 

 Jersey, (the beds b, c, d and e of the section on page 426 of this paper,) and by 

 the Rotten Limestone of Alabama. 



The intimate relations between the Fox Hills Beds and the Fort Pierre Group, 

 already mentioned, make it necessary, when we undertake to trace out the rela- 

 tionsbetween our Cretaceous rocks and those of the Old World, to view these two 

 formations together as one series. Their sj'nchronism with particular portions of 

 the Cretaceous system, at British and other foreign localities, will also be more 

 clearly understood by keeping in view, as a half-way ground, their representa- 

 tive beds in New Jersey, which certainly contain a few foreign species. The 

 evidence of the equivalence of our Upper Cretaceous Series of Nebraska with 

 the upper four divisions of the Cretaceous in New Jersey, — b, c, d and e of the 

 section on page 426 of this paper, — (which we must also take collectively, when 

 we wish to compare them with particular horizons of the Cretaceous abroad), 

 will be more clearly understood by consulting the following list of species com- 

 mon to the New Jersey and Nebraska Upper Cretaceous Series : — 



New Jersey Species. Position in Nebraska Upper Series. 



Mosasaurus Missouricnsis Ranges through the whole Upper Series. 



Nautilus Dekayi. Upper zone Ft. P. G. and in F. H. Beds, 



Scaphiles Conradi Fox Hills Beds. 



Ammonites placenta.. Upper zone Ft. P. G. and F. H. Beds. 



A. complexus , Lower zone Ft. Pierre Group. 



A. lohatus Fox Hills Beds. 



Baculites ovatus Ranges all through Ft. P. Group. 



Amauropsis paludinwformis^ Lower zone Ft. P. Group. 



We have reason to believe several other species are common to the Upper 

 Series in Nebraska and New Jersej"-, but we only include in this list those about 

 which there can be no doubt. A list of the closely allied representative species 

 at these distant localities, would, if accompanied by figures, still more clearly 

 illustrate the synchronism of the rocks under consideration. 



RELATIONS OF THE UPPER CRETACEOCS SERIES OF NEBRASKA TO EUROPEAN DIVISIONS. 



Before expressing any opinion in regard to the parallelism of our Upper Cre- 

 taceous Series of Nebraska, with particular portions of the Cretaceous of the 

 old world, it is proper that we should give a brief statement of the views of 

 others on this point, as well as in relation to the age of equivalent beds in New 

 Jersey, and in the States farther south. 



As is now well known, the Cretaceous strata of New Jersey were first referred 

 to that epoch by the lamented Prof. Lardner Vanuxem ; wbo did not, however, 

 attempt to trace out close parallels between particular beds of the New Jersey 

 strata, and their exact equivalents in the old world. Dr. Morton, to whom we 

 are indebted for figures and descriptions of a large numbar of the New Jersey 

 fossils, regarded these rocks and their equivalents in Nebraska and the South- 



* This species has been identified in New Jersey by Dr. Isaac Lea. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



ern States, as mainly representatives of the Upper Green Sand, or Chalk Marl 

 of Europe. It should not be forgotten, however, that he considered what he 

 had previously called the " Middle Division," that is, the upper calcareous 

 stratum in New Jersey, "contemporaneous with the European White Chalk."* 



Sir Charles Lyell expresses the opinion that the fossils of the New Jersey 

 Cretaceous beds, "on the whole agree most nearly with those of the upper 

 European series from the Maestricht beds to the Gault inclusive." f 



Prof Henry D. Rogers, with his usual sagacity in such matters, remarks in 

 his able Report on the Geology of New Jersey, that he does not regard the Green 

 Sands of that State, " in the strict sense of the word, as the equivalents of the 

 Green Sand formation, so called, of Europe." X 



In his Cours Elementaire de raleontoloyie, Alcide D'Orbigny refers the fossili- 

 ferous Cretaceous beds in New Jersey, and those in Nebraska, Arkansas, Texas, 

 Alabama, &c., all to his Senonien, the equivalent of the White or Upper Chalk, 

 and Maestricht beds.§ 



Prof. F. J. Pictet, in his " Traite de Paleontolo(/ie,'" also refers most, if not all, 

 of the New Jersey Cretaceous species, to the age of the White Chalk of Europe. 



In an interesting paper read by Dr. Isaac Lea before the Academy, in Decem- 

 ber, 1858, he likewise seems to favor the conclusion that the Cretaceous Green 

 Sands of New Jersey represent the Senonien of D'Orbigny, but suggests some 

 reasons for thinking that they may possibly belong a little lower in the Series. || 



From a careful review of the whole subject, and an attentive study of exten- 

 sive collections from the various formations of Nebraska, we are led to adopt 

 D'Orbigny's views, so far as regards our Upper Cretaceous Series of that re- 

 gion, and their equivalents in New Jersey and the States farther south. That 

 is to say, we regard these rocks as synchronous with the Upper or White Chalk, 

 and Maestricht beds of Europe, (== Senonien of D'Oroigny.) We differ with him, 

 however, in regard to the parallelism of our Lower Series of Nebraska ; or, more 

 properly, we differ with him in referring equivalent beds in Arkansas and far- 

 ther south to his Senonien, for it is probable he had never seen any fossils from 

 this Lower Series in Nebraska. 



The evidence in fnvor of the conclusion we have adopted in regard to the 

 synchronism of our Upper Series of Cretaceous rocks in Nebraska, with the White 

 Chalk and Maestricht beds of Europe, is both of a stratigraphical and paleon- 

 tological nature. The stratigraphical evidenca is, that it holds, west of the 

 Mississippi, a position above an older series, containing, as we have shown, a 

 group of organic remains corresponding in their affinities, and in several in- 

 stances, as we think, agreeing specifically with Lower Chalk forms in the old 

 world. The paleontological evidence is, first, that many of its fossils belong 

 to genera, which, according to Pictet, D'Orbigny, and others, are not known in 

 Europe below the White Chalk, nor even, in some instances, below the oldest 

 Tertiary. Secondly, that several of the forms occurring in these beds in Ne- 

 braska are also found in equivalent beds in New Jersey, and farther south, asso- 

 ciated with well known European Upper Chalk and Maestricht bed species ; 

 while they are all specifically distinct, so far as known, from those found in the 

 Lower Series in Nebraska. 



The following is a list of the genera found in the Upper Series in Nebraska, 

 and equivalent strata in New Jersey, Alabama, and some other States in the 

 South ; which, according to trustworthy authorities, are not known to range 

 below the horizon of the White Chalk, and a few of them not even below the 

 oldest Tertiary at foreign localities.^ 



* Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. iii., New Series, p. 217. — 184L 

 t Manual, p. 224. 



X Report on the Geology of New Jersey, page 178, — 1845. 

 II Cours F.lemt. de PaleontoJogie, pages 671 and 672, vol. ii, — 1852. 

 i Proceed, Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., Dec, 1858. 



If A few other genera might probably be added to this list, but we have given what we 

 consider the best authenticated examples. 



18t)l.] 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Names of Genera. Position in Nebraska. Localities in the States. Position in Europe. 



Mosasaurus. Ft.P.G.&Fox H.Bds. N. Jersey aad Alab. Wli.Cbk.& Maest.B. 



Saurocephalus. New Jeraej. Wbite Chalk. 



Callianassa. Base Ft. Pierre Gr. " " " " 



Pleurotoma. Ft.P.G.Up. pt.&FoxH.B. Wh.Chk.& Maest.B. 



Busycon. Fox Hills Beds. 



Pseudobuccinum. " " " 



Fasciolaria. " " " Tennessee. Maestr. Beds. 



Cypra;a. Alabama. Wliite Chalk. 



Xylophaga. Fox Hills Beds. 



Pulvenites. Mississippi. " " 



Cassidulus. Alab. and Miss. " " 



Of this list of eleven genera, the following three, viz. — Busycon, Psmdohucci- 

 num. and Xylophaga, have not yet, we believe, been found iu the old world so 

 low as the Cretaceous; while the genus Fasciolaria is there said to extend no 

 lower than the very latest member of the Cretaceous, (the Danien of D'Orbigny,) 

 above the Maestricht beds. The following seven of these genera, viz. — Callia- 

 nassa, Bimjcon, Pleuroloma, Fasciolaria, Cyprma, Xylophaga, and Cassidulus, pass 

 into the Tertiary, and are represented in our present seas ; wiiile the genus 

 Pseiidohuccinum will probably be alsj found in the Tertiary, since we know at 

 least one species of it still living.* 



At the same time that we are already aware of the occurrence of eleven or 

 more genera, in our Upper Series of American Cretaceous rocks, not known to 

 have been found below the horizon of the Upper Chalk in Europe, we can re- 

 member only three that have been identified in this Upper Series, which are sup- 

 posed not to range above the Lower Chalk of the old world. These are Caprl- 

 nella, Goniomya, and Macrabacia.\ Of each of the lafer two genera we cer- 

 tainly know one species in our Fox Hills beds; but the occurrence of the first 

 in our Upper Series is very doubtful, since it has only been identified from a 

 single imperfect specimen, that will probably be found to belong to some other 

 group. 



In addition to the general upward tendency, so to speak, of the genera in this 

 Upper Series, both in Nebraska and farther eastward, we would also rerna'k 

 that a few of the forms found in our Fox Hills beds, particularly of the G'lftero- 

 poda, present such close specific affinities to Tertiary shells, that we would have 

 doubted the propriety of referring them to the Cretaceous epoch, were it not 

 for the fact that we find them associated in the same bed with Baculites, Am- 

 monites, Scaphites, and other Cretaceous genera and species. 



Although we have not been fully able to satisfy ourselves that any of the 

 species yet known from the Upper Cretaceous Series of Nebraska are certainly 

 identical with Upper Chalk forms in the old world, manj^of them are undoubt- 

 edly closely allied represeuVatives, and we think the following will probably 

 prove to be common to this horizon in Nebraska and Europe, viz. — Nautilus De- 

 kayi, Scaphites Conradi, Baculites anccps, and Gryphtea vcsicularis. At any rate 

 Nautilus Dekayi is closely related to some foreign forms, and is supposed by 

 D'Orbigny to occur in the Upper Chalk of Europe. Scaphites Conradi, also, 

 seems scarcely distinguishable from an Upper Chalk form found in Germany, de- 

 scribed by Roemer under the name of (S, pulcherrimus ; and we find in our Fox 

 Hills beds a Baculite we cannot distinguish from a Texas shell referred by Dr. 

 F. Roemer to B. anceps of Lamarck. We would remark, however, that if D'Or- 

 bigny's figures of Lamarck's species represent the sutures accurately, the Ame- 



* P. ampullaceum, {— Bullia ampulacea of Middendorff,) from the Great J>chantur- 

 Island. 



t We areawrirc the genus Belemnifes is not known to ex'end up into the Upper Chalk 

 in Europe, and that Dr. Morton described a B. ambiguus from New Jersey. Dr. Leidy, 

 however, has decided that it is a spine of a Fish. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 431 



rican form will probably prove to be only an allied representative species. In 

 addition to the above, v:e likewise find a Gryphcca in our Fort Pierre Group, 

 which presents close relations to G. vcsicularis, if it is not indeed that species. 



When we come to the equivalent rocks further eastward, however, in New 

 Jersey, and at localities in Alabama and other Southern States, we are no 

 longer compelled, as previously stated, to rely upon doubtfully identical, or 

 closely allied representative species, for we there find a numljer of our Ne- 

 braska forms associated with some seven or eight well known European Upper 

 Chalk species. 



So far as we have been able to ascertain, the list given below embraces the 

 species known to be common to the New Jersey and Alabama rocks alluded to, 

 and the Upper Chalk and Maestricht beds of the Old World : 



Names. Ameiican Localities. Foreign localities and position. 



Saurocephalus lanciformis, New Jersey. England, White Chalk. 



Latnna acuminata, New Jersey. England, White Chalk. 



Belemniiella mucronata, New Jersey, Ala., &c. Eng., Fr., &c., Wh. Ck. & 



Maest. B. 

 Neitkea Mortoni, New Jersey, Ala., &c. France, White Chalk. 



Ostrea larva, N. J., Teun., Ala., &c. Eng., France, &c., Wh. Ck. 



& Mae.st. B. 

 Gryphcea vesicularis,* N. J., Tenn., Ala., &c. Eng., France, &c., Wh. Ck. 



& Maest. B. 

 Nucleolitts crucifer, New Jersey. France, White Chalk. 



It is true we have in this upper series in Nebraska and further east, a few 

 forms allied to Lower Chalk and Upper Green Sand species, and we have re- 

 garded two of these, at least, as probably identical with foreign species of that 

 age. That is, we had supposed our Cucullaa Shumardi probably identical 

 with the Green Sand species, C. fibrosa of Sowerby, and a small Micrahacia 

 from our Fox Hills beds, probably identical with M. coronula Goldfuss sp., 

 from the same horizon. Later comparisons, however, have led us to regard 

 the latter as a distinct species ; and although we have not yet been able to 

 find characters by which our Cucullaa Shumardi can be distinguished from 

 the figures and descriptions of Sowerby's species we have seen, it is quite pro- 

 bable that a careful comparison of a series of good specimens would bring to 

 light constant differences of specific importance. Should these, however, and 

 several others we have from time to time compared with Green Sand and 

 Lower Chalk species, really prove to be undistinguishable from them, still 

 the weight of evidence would, on the whole, be strongly in favor of the con- 

 clusion that these rocks are certainly of the age of the Upper Chalk and Maes- 

 tricht beds. 



From all the foregoing facts it may be seen, first, that the only strongly 

 marked palfeontological break in the Nebraska Cretaceous Section, so far as 

 we now know, is that dividing the Niobrara Division from the Fort Pierre 

 Group. 



Secondly, That all the Nebraska Cretaceous beds below this line, included 

 in our section, as well as the bed f. of the New .Jersey Section, on page 42(3 of this 

 paper, represent the Lower or Gray Chalk, are probably the Upper Green 

 Sand of the Old World, f 



Thirdly, That all the Nebraska beds between this strongly marked line, 

 near the middle of the section, and the Tertiary, as well as the beds b, c, d, 



* This species is supposed by some to occur also in the Upper Green Sand, and the 

 Lower or Gray l^halk, but the form occurring in these lower positions is regarded by 

 other aulhorities as a disiinct species. 



t By this remark we do not mean to express the opinion that Cretaceous strata older 

 than the I'pper Green Sand of Europe may not exist, and jet be discuvered in 

 Nebraska and New Jersey. 



1861.] 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and e, of the New Jersey Section, belong to the horizon of the Upper or White 

 Chalk and Maestricht Beds of Europe. 



TERTIARY ROCKS. 



It would extend these remarks beyond the limits assigned them, to attempt 

 any detailed account of the Tertiary rocks of Nebraska, or to discuss at length 

 the questions respecting their relations to those of the Atlantic coast, or of the 

 Old World. We must therefore limit ourselves here to a few brief statements 

 of leading facts, and leave all details for another occasion. 



In the first place, we would remark, that no strictly marine Tertiary depo- 

 sits have yet been discovered in all the Rocky Mountain region of Nebraska, 

 nor, so far as we know, in any other portion of Nebraska, Kansas or Utah. 

 Throughout all this great central area of the Continent, wherever the oldest 

 Tertiary deposits have been seen, they give evidence of fresh and brackish 

 water origin ; and where observed resting upon the most recent Cretaceous beds, 

 the two have been found conformable, and sometimes blended together, so as 

 to render it difficult to draw a line between them, in the absence of organic re- 

 mains. 



All the facts indicate a gradual change from the marine conditions of the 

 Cretaceous — at first to brackish, and then to the fresh water conditions of the 

 Tertiary. The predominance of Gasteropoda and Lamellibranchiata, and the 

 comparative paucity of types usually considered characteristic of deeper water 

 deposits, as well as the coarser nature of the sediments, near the end of the 

 Cretaceous epoch in this region, indicate that the waters were growing more 

 shallow as the land on the east encroached on the sea, and islands were 

 rising where the Rocky Mountains now stand ; while the close of the Creta- 

 ceous period seems to have been attended by the gradual elevation of large 

 areas of country here above the ocean level. This and other contemporaneous 

 changes of physical conditions, caused the total destruction of the whole Cre- 

 taceous fauna. 



After this, extensive tracts of country in the region of the Rocky Mountains, 

 and east of there in Nebraska, and other North-western Territories, were oc- 

 cupied by Bays, Inlets, Estuaries, &c., of brackish water, inhabited by mol- 

 lusca of the genera O.strea, Unio, Pisidium, Corbicida, Potamomya, Melania, 

 Melampiis, Vivipara, &c. &c., all of Tertiary types. As the gradual elevation 

 of the country continued, the salt and brackish waters receded, and gave 

 place to Lakes and other bodies of fresh water, in which most of the Tertiary 

 rocks of the North-west were deposited ; so that in all, excepting the earliest 

 Tertiary beds of this region, we find only the remains of strictly fresh water 

 and terrestrial animals. 



The passage from the brackish to the fresh water beds in the oldest mem- 

 ber of the Tertiary of this region, seems not to be marked by any material 

 alteration in the nature of the sediments. Nor have we, so far as is yet known, 

 any reasons for believing that any climatic or other important physical changes 

 beyond the slow rising of the land, and the consequent recession of the salt 

 and brackish water, took place during the deposition of the whole of the oldest 

 member of the Tertiary here ; since we find a considerable proportion of the 

 species of fresh water moUusca ranging through this whole lower member. 

 The principal diflTerence between the fossils of its upper and lower beds, con- 

 sists in the gradual disappearance of strictly brackish water types, as we as- 

 cend from the inferior strata. 



The entire series of Nebraska Tertiary rocks consists of three or four groups, 

 three of which at least, (and probably four), evidently belong to separate and 

 distinct epochs. They usually occur in isolated basins, but have with one 

 exception, all been seen in such connection as to leave no doubts in regard to 

 their order of superposition. Their prevailing lithological characters, esti- 

 mated maximum thickness, and order of succession, will be seen in the sec- 

 tion, given below. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



433 



General Section of the Tertiary roclcs 0/ Nebraska. 



The Fort Union, or Great Lignite Group, occupies extensive areas of 

 country in Nebraska, and has been seen beneath the White River Group at 

 several distant localities. It was evidently deposited in large bodies of water, 

 which were at first brackish, and then gradually became fresh. The great 

 numbers of fossil leaves, and numerous beds of lignite contained in it, clearly 

 show that the shores of these ancient estuaries, lakes, &c., in which this for- 

 mation was deposited, supported dense forests of large trees, and a growth of 

 other vegetation, far exceeding in luxuriance anything now met with in 

 these latitudes. Indeed, the presence of true Fan JPalms, of large size, and 



1861.] 29 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



the remains of the genus Crocodilus, as well as the affinities of the mollusea 

 found in these beds to southern forms, all point rather to the existence here 

 of a tropical than a temperate climate during their deposition. 



In regard to the relations of this formation to known horizons in the 

 Tertiary of the Old World, we scarcely feel prepared to express a very decided 

 opinion. The difficulty in the way of drawing inferences bearing on this point, 

 from the remains of mollusea found in these beds, is, that they, being fresh 

 and brackish-water types, bear little or no analogy to those of the Tertiaries of 

 the States bordering on tiie Atlantic ; nor are any of them, so far as known, 

 specifically identical with foreign forms. 



When we bear in mind, however, the fact, that wherever this formation has 

 been seen in contact with the latest Cretaceous beds, the two have been found 

 to be conformable, however great the upheavals and distortions may be, 

 while at the junction there seems to be a complete mingling of sediments, one 

 is strongly impressed with the probability that no important member of either 

 system is wanting between them. This view is also rendered more probable 

 by the fact that the formation under consideration is known to hold a position 

 beneath the White River Group ; which is characterized by the remains of an 

 entirely different fauna, clearly of Miocene age. 



Again, the occurrence in this lower group of remains of the genus Lepidotus, 

 which is, we believe, in Europe unknown above the Eocene ; while the other 

 vertebrate remains found associated with it have been compared by the dis- 

 tinguished Comparative Anatomist, Prof. Leidy, with types even older than 

 the Tertiary, are facts strengthening the impression that this Fort Union Lig- 

 nite Group probably represents the Eocene of Europe. 



It should not be forgotten, however, that an extensive and beautiful series 

 of fossil plants from this formation, although not yet thoroughly investigated, 

 have been thought by Dr. Newberry to be most analogous to Miocene types. 

 Yet even if this formation should prove to be of Eocene age, this would only 

 be in accordance with what is now known in regard to the earlier introduction 

 of particular types of plants in the Cretaceous System of this country, than in 

 that of the Old World. 



As the Wind River Deposits have not yet been seen in contact with any 

 well marked beds of the other Tertiary formations of this region, and few fos- 

 sils have yet been found in them, their position in the series remains doubtful. 

 It is therefore only provisionally that we have placed this formation between 

 the Fort Union and White River Groups in the foregoing section. It may 

 possibly belong to the horizon of one of these rocks, or even represent them 

 both in part, or, what is more probable, it may occupy an intermediate chrono- 

 logical position. 



The only fossils yet found in this formation are fragments of Trionyx, and 

 Testudo, together with the shells of two species of Helix and a cast of a Vivi- 

 para. One of these Helices is more like H. Leidyi, from the White River 

 Group than any of the other species yet known from any of these rocks, while 

 the other is a very large depressed species of southern type, quite unlike any of 

 tho e hitherto found in any of the other Nebraska rocks. The Fjutpm-a seems 

 to be undistinguishable from our V. trochiformis, from the Fort Benton Group ; 

 though, as it is a mere cast, it^cannot be identified with positive certainty with 

 that shell. No marine or brackish water fossils have been found in these beds. 

 The White River Group is the formation that has furnished the extensive 

 and interesting collections of vertebrate remains, which have been so ably in- 

 vestigated by Prof. Leidy. It occupies a constderable area in the region of 

 White River, and is seen beneath the succeeding formation on the Niobrara 

 and Platte Rivers. Its position above the Fort Union, or Great Lignite Group, 

 has also been clearly and satisfactorily determined. 



This formation is mainly composed of a series of whitish indurated clays, 

 which have been worn and cut by the streams, rains, and other atmospheric 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



agencies, into numerous deep valleys and ravines, so as to leave various 

 peaks, isolated columns, towers, &c., presenting, as seen from a distance, ex- 

 actly tlie appearance of the ruins of an ancient cit3'. Tlie difficulty the travel- 

 ler meets with in finding his way through this interminable labyrinth, had 

 caused the Indians to call it in their own language, the Bad Grounds, hence 

 the French name Mauvaises Terres, applied by the Canadian Voyageuis in the 

 employ of the Fur Companies. 



The vertebrate remains found in these beds belong to the genera Oreodon, 

 Agrioch erus, Ptehrotheriam, Leptomeri/x, LeptaucJtenia, Protomeryx, Merijcodii^, 

 Titanolherium, Leptochcerus, Hyracodon, Entelodon, Palccochveriis, Rhinoceros, 

 Steneojiber, iMachairodtis, Anchitheriuin, Hijopotamas, Ilyacnodon, Ischi/roinys, 

 Palaolagus, and Eumys, Testado, &c., &c. The affinities of these fossils, as has 

 been shown by Prof. Leidy, clearly establish the Miocene age of this formation. 



Comparatively few invertebrate remains have yet been found in the White 

 River Group. They consist of one species of Helix, one or two of Limncea, a 

 small Physa, two or three small species of Planorbis, &j. No fossil leaves, nor 

 beds of Lignite, have been met within it ; and all the animal remains, as may 

 be seen fz'om the foregoing list, are terrestrial and fresh water types. 



The Loup River Beds consist mainly of incoherent materials, and were evi- 

 dently deposited after the upper surface of the White River Group liad been 

 worn into ravines and other depressions. It occupies much of the surface of 

 the country in the region of the Loup Fork of Piatte River, and extending far 

 south of the latter stream. The vertebrate remains described by Prof. Leidy 

 from it, belong to the genera M galonicryx, Procamelus, Cervus, Rhinoceros, 

 Mastodon, Elephas, Hipparion, Merychippus, Equus, Castor, Felis, Canis, Testudo, 

 &c., many of which are very closely allied to recent species. A few shells of 

 the genera Helix, Physa, &c., apparently identical with living species, have 

 also been found in these beds. All the species of vertebrate and other remains 

 yet found in them, are distinct from those occurring in the White River Group 

 and beds below, and they have not yet afforded any brackish or marine types 

 of any kind. 



When we take into consideration the position of this formation above the 

 well marked Miocene White River Group, and the relations of its organic re- 

 mains to Pliocene and recent species, there is little room for doubting the cor- 

 rectness of its reference to the horizon of the Pliocene of Europe. 



SILURIAN (PRIMORDIAL) FOSSILS. 



BRACHIOPODA. 



Genus OBOLELLA, Billings. 



Obolella nana. 



Shell very small, subcircnlar, or transversely suboval, moderately convex, 

 rather thick ; front broadly rounded ; sides more narrowly rounded. Beakol 

 dorsal valve short and obtuse. Ventral valve proportionally a little longei 

 than the other, about as long as wide, and having a slightly more prominent 

 beak ; without a distinct mesial ridge within ; scars of aductor muscles ? located 

 behinii the middle and diverging towards the front. Surface marked by a few 

 concentric furrows ; exfoliated specimens showing small, obscure, regularly 

 disposed radiating striae on the inner laminje. 



Length of dorsal valve, 01.5 inch ; breadth of do., 0-17 inch ; convexity, 

 0-15 inch. Length and breadth of ventral valve of a smaller specimen, each 

 0-14 inch. 



In first sending on to the Academy a description of this little shell, we had 

 referred it with doubt to the genus Oboliis, stating, at the same time, that its 

 muscular scars, so far as they could be made out from the only specimen we 



1861.] 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



had seen showing the interior, seemed to present diflferences from the type of 

 Echwald's genus. Since seeing Mr. Billings's figures of his genus Obolella, 

 recently published, we are fully satisfied that he is right in separating these 

 shells from the genus Obohis. 



Our species is so closely allied to Obolella chromntica of Billings, the type of 

 the genus, (see "New species of Lower Silurian Fossils," page 7,) that we 

 were inclined to regard it as specifically identical, until we had an opportunity 

 to compare it with specimens of Mr. Billings' species, kindly sent us by him. 

 On comparing it with these, we find it is more convex, and proportionally 

 hroader, while its concentric markings are stronger. The substance of its 

 shell is also thicker, and differs in showing radiating striae on the inner 

 laminae of exfoliated specimens. 



Locality and position. Central portions of the Black Hills, from the Primor- 

 dial or Potsdam Sandstone. 



PTEROPODA? 



Genus THECA, Morris. 



ThECA (PuGIUNCCLrs) GKEGAEEA. 



Shell small, straight, acutely conical ; dorsal side compressed or nearly flat ; 

 ventral side regularly rounded ; lateral margins obtusely subangular, and 

 converging regularly, at an angle of about 18" to the pointed lower extre- 

 mity ; aperture nearly semicircular, or forming rather more than half a cir- 

 cle ; surface smooth. 



Length, 0'45 inch ; breadth, 0*15 inch ; convexity, 0*10 inch at the aperture. 



This frail little sbell must have existed in vast numbers, since on a single 

 slab not more than six by eight inches across, we have counted near two hian- 

 dred individuals. It resembles in form Pugiunculus striatutus, of Barrande, 

 (Neues Jah. p. 554, pi. 9, fig. 2.) but differs in being very much smaller, and 

 much more convex and straighter on the ventral side ; as well as in being desti- 

 tute of str!a>. It agrees more nearly in size, and the smoothness of its surface, 

 with P. simplex, of the same author, but is smaller, and differs in having its 

 lateral margins straight instead of concave in outline. Its ventral side is 

 also much more convex, and more rounded. 



In size and form it is much more nearly like Salterelfa obtusa, of Billings, 

 (New sp. Lower Sil. Foss., p. 18;) but it seems to difi"er in not heing com- 

 posed of successive layers, as in that species and genus. We only place it 

 provisionally in the genus Tlieca. 



Locality arid position. — Near the head of Powder River, in Big Horn Moun- 

 tains. From Primordial or Potsdam Sandstone. 



TRILOBITES. 



Genus ARIONELLUS, Barrande. 



Arionellus (Crepicepalus) Oweni. 



Head forming more than a semicircle, or nearly semielliptic in outline, its 

 length equalling about two-thirds its breadth, rather distinctly convex ; pos- 

 terior border more or less concave in outline, and provided with a deep rounded 

 marginal groove along each lateral slope. Glabella rather gibbous, elevated 

 above the cheeks, oblong-subovate, its lateral margins converging with a 

 slight convexity towards the front, which is rounded ; greatest convexity near 

 the middle and postoriorly, separated from the cheeks on each side and in 

 front, by a distinct sulcus ; neck furrow passing entirely across, but slightly 

 deaper on each side than at the middle ; lateral grooves three, very short, ob- 

 scure, or (in casts) nearly obsolete, not oblique. Cervical segment somewhat 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



rounded, a little convex on its posterior outline ; less elevated than the glabella. 

 Anterior slope in advance of the glabella, less than half as wide as tlie length 

 of the latter, and provided with a distinct, rounded transverse furrow, which 

 passes around slightly in front of the middle of this space parallel to the an- 

 terior and lateral margins. Cheeks convex, and sloping towards the lateral 

 and antero-lateral border. Surface and facial sutures unknown. 



Length, measuring from the posterior side of the neck segment to the front 

 margin, 0"57 inch ; greatest breadth measuring across at the posterior extremi- 

 ties of the cheeks, 0'S7 inch ; height, 0"31 incli. Length of glabella, including 

 the neck segment, 0*40 inch ; breadth of glabella, 0"35 inch. 



The only specimen of this species we have seen is a cast, retaining none of 

 the shell, and of course giving no idea of the nature of the external markings, 

 if there were any. Nor is it in a condition to enable us to determine whether 

 or not the posterior lateral extremities of the buckler are pointed, though they 

 appear to be. At a point nearly opposite the middle of the gUbella, tliere is 

 on each cheek less than half way down the slope, from tlie farrow between 

 the cheeks and the glabella, what appears to be some remains of a small eyes, 

 though the specimen being unfortunately a little defective here on both sides, 

 the exact nature of these prominences cannot be clearly made out. 



We sent drawings of this species to Dr. Shumard and Mr. Billings, bath of 

 whom write that it is specifically distinct from any of the forms described by 

 them from rocks of the same age in Cana la and Texas. We hail been inclined 

 to refer it to Mr. Billings' genus Bathj/urus, but have concluded to place it pro- 

 visionally in Barrande's genus, Arionellus, until, better specimens can be ob- 

 tained, showing more satisfactorily its generic characters. We have been led 

 to do this, by the proportionally small size of some imperfect caudal shields, 

 probably of the same species, embedded in the same slab ; in which respect 

 it would seem to agree more nearly with Barrande's genus, than with BathijH- 

 rus, the type of which, Mr. Billings writes, has a caudal shield nearly one-third 

 as large as the entire animal. 



Both of these genera seem to be very clo-ely allied to Crepicepalus of Owen, 

 but as that genus is not very clearly defined, and was based upon specimens 

 probably belonging to more than one group, it will perhaps not be generally 

 adopted. Our species is certainly qnite closely allied to some of the specimens 

 figured by Dr. Owen under that name. 



Locality and position. — Same as last. 



JURASSIC SPECIES. 



LAMELLIBRANCHIA TA. 



Genus GRYPH^^A, Lamarck. 



GryphjEa calceola, var. Nebascensis. 



Gryphcea calceola, Quenstedt, Handb. Petref. tab. 40, fig. 29-31. 



Gryph la calceola, Quenstedt, Der Jura, tab. 48, fig. 1-3. 



Gryphcea calceola ? Meek, Capt. Simpson's Kept. Utah Expedition. 



Amongst the collections brought in by Capt. Simpson's Expedition, from the 

 Jurassic beds at the Red Buttes, on the North Branch of the Platte River, 

 there are specimens of a small irregular oyster-like Gryphcea, which were re- 

 ferred with doubt by one of the authors to Gryphcea calceola, of Quenstedt, 

 These specimens generally have the whole umbo completely truncated by the 

 sear of attainment, so as to present none of the characteristic features of the 

 genus Gryphcea. Some of them, however, have the beak less distinctly trun- 

 cated, and a few have it nearly entire, pointed, and incurved as in the true Gry- 

 phoeas. Still none of these specimens are one-fourth as large, nor have any of 



1861.] 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



them the beak anything like near so strongly incurved . as Quenstedt's fig. 1, 

 tab. 48, of his Der Jura. 



Amongst the specimens now under consideration, belonging to Capt. Ray- 

 nolds' collections, from the .Jurassic beds at Big Horn, Mount.nn Lat. 43^ 30' N., 

 Long. 108 West, we have a large series agreeing in nearly all respects with 

 the forms brought in by Capt. Simpson. Most of them would be called true 

 oysters, were it not for the f u't that we find them occasionally shading into 

 Grt/phce '-like forms. 



From another locality at the base of the mountains near the head of Wind 

 River Valley, a large number of specimens were obtained by Capt. Raynolds' 

 expedition, from the same horizon as those mentioned above, (and associated 

 witli the same group of fossils,) nearly all of which present the form, and all 

 the characters of true Gryplueas, anrl appear to agree very closely with Quen- 

 stedt's fig. 1, on the plate above cited. Whether or not all these Nebraska 

 forms should be included in one species, as Quenstedt lias done with tlie Ger- 

 man specimens, is an exceedingly diflicult question to decide ; nor can we de- 

 termine very satisfactorily without authentic European specimens for com- 

 parison, whether or not our group of forms are really in all respects identical 

 with those figured by Quenstedt. Until these questions can be determined 

 from more satisfactory data than we now have at our command, we would 

 propose to designate the narrow shells with a distinctly incurved umbo from 

 Wind River Valley, as Gri/ph(ea calceola, var. Nehrascensis, since they may 

 possibly be distinct from Quenstedt's species. 



These latter may be described as follows : — lower valve very narrow, elon- 

 gate, arcuate, in old individuals thickened near the umbo, and provided with 

 an obscure sulcus from near the beak along near the anterior side to tlie ven- 

 tral margin ; beak slender, distinctly incurved, and directed a little obliquely 

 towards the front, often rather pointed, but sometimes slightly truncated at 

 the apex ; area triangular, arcuate, extending close up under the curve of the 

 beak, and provided with a shallow mesial depression ; muscular scar small, 

 shallow, oval, and located near the left or anterior side, surface ornamented 

 on the gibbous back of the umbo by distinct, irregular, radiating striae, usually 

 extending to near the middle, on mature specimens, while the space between 

 this and the ventral margin is marked only by moderately distinct concentric 

 strife, and stronger ridges of growth. 



Upper or smaller valve ovate, nearly flat on the outside, or a little convex 

 at the beak, and more or less concave near the middle, usually concave within 

 towards the cardinal extremity, which is truncated and thickened ; surface 

 ornamented with rather distinct marks of growth. 



Length from the most prominent part of the umbo, to the ventral extremity, 

 2-70 inches ; breadth at the extremity opposite the beak, about 1*20 inch ; 

 convexity, 0-73 inch. 



The most marked features of this shell of which we have before us more 

 than one hundred specimens, are its slender form, and the distinctly striated 

 character of the umbonal region of its lower valve. Its greatest breadth is at 

 the ventral extremity, from which it narrows gradually towards the beak, the 

 anterior side being a little more expanded than the other, and in the lower 

 valve somewhat lobed in front of the sulcus extending from near the beak to 

 the ventral margin. The radiating striae on the umbonal region of the under 

 valve seem to have commenced almost with the growth of the shell, and con- 

 tinued until it had obtained nearly half its full size, after which only con- 

 centric markings were developed. 



No one could for a moment confound any of the forms we have been describ- 

 ing with G. Pitcheri, (= G. dilatata of Marcou, not of Sowerby), even after 

 merely glancing at the specimens. None of those having the beak pointed 

 and incurved are ever one-half as broad, or deep in proportion to their length 

 as that shell, while they differ entirely in their surface striae. In short, they 

 all differ as widely from that shell as any two species of the genus can perhaps 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



diflFer from each other. In addition to this, they hold a widely different geo- 

 logical position, and are associated with an entirely different group of fossils, 

 all of which are clearly Jurassic forms. We mention these facts hecause Mr. 

 Marcou has expressed the opinion that the specimens in Capt. Simpson's col- 

 lections, referred by one of the authors with doubt to G. calceola. are nothing 

 more than the form he has referred to G. dilatata, an opinion he would not 

 have for a moment maintained, if he had seen the specimens alluded to. 



Localitij and position. Head "Wind River Valley, at base of the mountains. 

 Jurassic. 



Genus MODIOLA Lamarck.* 



MODIOLA (PeKNA) FORMOSA. 



Shell narrow, subelliptical, moderately arcuate, gibbous along the umbo- 

 nal slopes, the greatest convexity being near the middle of the valves ; ante- 

 rior end rather narrowly rounded ; base sinuous near the middle, or a little 

 behind it, and rounding up rather abruptly in front ; dorsal margin a little 

 arching back to near the middle of tlie shell, thence becoming obtusely cari- 

 nate, and declining with a long gentle curve to the posterior extremity which 

 is very narrowly rounded ; beaks small, compressed, obtuse, and located 

 directly over the anterior margin, beyond the rounded outline of which they 

 scarcely project ; umbonal slopes prominently rounded, and extending from 

 the beaks obliquely backwards to the posterior extremity. Surface ornament- 

 ed by small concentric strije, and a few stronger marks of growth, which are 

 crossed on the dorsal half of the valves by about forty or fifty regular, closely 

 arranged, and generally simple radiating lines, extending from the beaks 

 to the postero-dorsal and anal margins ; faint traces of another system of ex- 

 tremely fine strise may also be seen, by the aid of a magnifier, crossing the 

 somewhat compressed ventral half of the valves, from the umbonal ridge to 

 the basal margin. 



Length, 2-05 inches ; diameter from the ventral to the dorsal margins, at 

 right angles to the length, near the middle of the shell, 0*84 inch ; greatest 

 convexity at the same point, 0-80 inch. 



This shell is very closely allied to the European Jurassic, Modiola cancellata, 

 (=Mytilus cancel/atus of Goldfuss. — Petrefact. Germ., Tome ii. pi. 131, fig. 2), 

 and may possibly prove to be identical, when we can have the means of 

 making direct comparisons with authentic specimens of the latter. The five 

 Nebraska specimens, however, now before us, all present the following differ- 

 ences from Goldfuss' figure. In the first place, they are narrower across from 

 the dorsal to the ventralside, more narrowly rounded at the posterior extrem- 

 ity, and have slightly more prominent beaks, while their antero-ventral mar- 

 gin is a little more convex, and their base rather more arcuate. Their surface 

 markings are very similar to those of Goldfuss' species, though his enlarged 

 figure represents the concentric strise crossing the radiating lines, as being 

 more distinct and regular than on our shell. He also neither figures nor 

 mentions in his description the fine obscure transverse strise seen on the ven- 

 tral half of the Nebraska shell, though these are so indistinct that they might 

 be easily overlooked ; indeed they seem rather to be in some way dependent 

 upon the structure of the shell rather than really surface markings. 



M. Alcide D'Orbigny cites Modiola cancellata of Roemer, and his own M. 

 Strajeskiana from the Jura of Russia, as synonymous with M. cancellata of 

 Goldfuss. Witliout exi^ressing a positive opinion on this point, we would re- 

 mark, that this seems very improbable to us, unless Goldfuss' species is ex- 

 ceedingly variable. At any rate, Roemer's and D'Orbigny's figures are very 

 unlike our Nebraska shell, which is remarkably uniform in its characters. 



Locality and position. Big Horn Mountains. Jurassic. 



*'rhe name Modiola, Lamarck, will probably have to give way to Perna, Adanson 

 (non Bruguiere), or Volsella scopoli, 



1861.J 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CRETACEOUS SPECIES. 

 LAME LLI BRAN CHI A TA. 



Genus OSTREA Linnaeus. 



OSTKEA GaBBANA. 



Shell rather small, thin and longitudinally elliptical or ovate ; cardinal 

 margin narrowly rounded, or subangular at the beaks ; opposite extremity 

 rounded; anterior and posterior sides forming regular elliptic curves ; sur- 

 face of both valves smooth, excepting obscure marks of growth. Lower valve 

 rounded below, and rather deeply concave within ; beak small, not very pro- 

 minent ; area small, wider than long. Upper valve perfectly flat, nearly 

 smooth, and presenting the same outline as the other, excepting that its beak 

 is rather less prominent ; area short and a little tliickened. 



Length from beaks to the opposite extremity, 1*36 inches; diameter from 

 the anterior to the posterior side, 1 inch ; convexity or depth of the lower 

 valve, 0'30 inch. 



This shell presents an unusual regularity of form for an oyster, and is not 

 liable to be confounded with any other species with which we are acquainted. 

 The regular elliptic outline and uniform convexity of the lower valve, with its 

 small beak, ranging exactly in a line with its longer central axis, give it, as 

 seen from below, much tlie appearance of some smooth species of Terebratula, 

 such as the T. Harlani of Morton. The specimens vary little in form, the 

 only difference being the rather less elongate outline of young individuals. 



Named in honor of Mr. Wm. M. Gabb, of Philadelphia. 



Locality and position. Head Gros-ventres River, from a gray sandstone con- 

 taining Cardium curtum (of this paper), a large nearly circular Lxoceramus, and 

 an Oyster of undetermined species. The age of this rock is not very clearly 

 determined but is most probably Cretaceous. 



Genus LEDA Schumacher. 

 Leda bisulcata. 



Shell small, transversely subovate ; gibbous in the central region ; anterior 

 side narrowly rounded ; base semi-elliptical, with a slight sinuosity near the 

 posterior extremity ; anal end narrow and subangular in outline ; dorsal bor- 

 der sloping from the beaks at an angle of about 135°; beaks rather obtuse, 

 nearly central, or located slightly in advance of the middle ; posterior umbo- 

 nal slopes distinctly angular, the angles extending back to the anal extremity, 

 where they terminate in a small obscure fold ; escutcheon lanceolate, concave 

 along the middle, and strongly defined by the umbonal angles, just within 

 which there is on each side a narrow well defined sulcus, extending from the 

 beaks to the posterior end of the shell ; luuule not defined ; surface orna- 

 mented by small, rather distinctly elevated, regularly arranged concentric 

 striae. 



Length, 0*31 inch ; height, 0-16 inch ; convexity, 0-13 inch. 



At a first glance, this little shell might be mistaken for our Leda, (Yoldia,) 

 scitida (= Nacu/a scittda Ap. 185(3, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 84) ; 

 but on a closer examination, it will be at once distinguisheu by its angular 

 posterior umbonal slopes and distinctly defined escutcheon, as well as by its 

 stronger concentric striae. It is also a little less gibbous and slightly more 

 depressed. 



Locality and position. Deer Creek, near North branch Platte River, in 

 lower part Fox Hills beds, or the upper beds of Fort Pierre Group of the Ne- 

 braska Cretaceous Section. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Genus GERVILLIA, Defrance. 

 Gervillia uecta. 



Shell small, rather thin, obliquely elougate-oblong; antero-basal margin 

 nearly straight, or slightly convex in outline; postero-dorsal border pirallel to 

 the under margin; anal extremity rounded or snbtruncate ; hinge comparatively 

 short, terminating in an acute angle in front, and ranging at an angle of thirty 

 to thirty-five degrees above the oblique longitudinal axis of the shell ; cardinal 

 area scarcely gaping, provided with three small cartilage pits ; beaks small, 

 very oblique, placed about half way between the middle and the anterior ex- 

 tiemity of the hinge; surface smooth, or only marked with fine obscure striai 

 of growth. Left valve convex, but flattened along the middle, so as to give the 

 shell a cuneate appearance posteriorly, and produce an obscure ridge along 

 the upper and lower margins of the flattened portion ; above the upper of these 

 ridges, the jiosterior portion of the hinge is strongly compress or subalale. 

 Right valve flat. 



Length, measuring from the posterior extremity obliquely forward to the 

 anterior end of the hinge, 2 inches; breadth, at right angles to the length, 0-66 

 inch; convexity, 0-30 inch; length of hinge, 0-81 inch. 



This little shell is closely allied to a lower green sand species described by 

 Prof. Forbes under the name of Geroilia linffuloides, (Qr. Jour. Geol. Soc. Lon., 

 vol. 1, pi. 3, fig. 9.) So close indeed is the resemblance, that were it not for 

 the fact that our shell holds a position near the upper part of the Cretaceous 

 system, and comes from so widely distant a locality, we should scarcely venture 

 to regard it as a new species. The most important diffeience between it and 

 Forbes' species is in the position of its beaks, those of G. Unguloides being de- 

 scribed as terminal, while in our shell they are placed about half way between 

 the middle and the anterior extremity of the hinge. It is true, D'Orbigny re- 

 fers to G. linffuloidcs, (Pal. Fr. Ter. Cret., Tome 3, pi. 396,) a form which has 

 its beaks not quite terminal, though they are distinctly nearer so than those of 

 our species. In other respects D'Orbigny's figures agree almost exactly with 

 the specimens before us, excepting that they represent the shell as being laterally 

 arcuate, while ours is invariably straight. His figures, as well as Prof. Forbes', 

 are also more narrowly rounded at the postero-basal extremity than any of the 

 specimens of the form under consideration. All fur specimens are propor- 

 tionabiy narrower, and more elongate than Prof. Forbes' figures, though not 

 more so than D'Orbigny's. 



Locality and position. — Same as last. Very numerous. 



Genus CRENELLA, Brown. 

 Crenella elegantula. 



Shell small, very thin and pearly, obliquely ovato-cordate, ventricose ; pos- 

 tero-basal and basal margins rounded ; dorsal border sloping: posteriorly with 

 an arcuate outline, and rounding into the anal margin behind; anterior border 

 rounding obliquely backwards into the base; umbonal region of both valves 

 very gibbous; beaks prominent, terminal, pointed, distinctly incurved and di- 

 rected obliquely forward at the extremities ; hinge margic smooth ; free border 

 minutely crenulated. Surface (as seen by the aid of a magnifier) beautifully 

 ornamented by ext-emely fine, regular, closely-arranged, radiating striae, which 

 increase chiefly by bifurcation, and continue of uniform size on ail parts of the 

 shell; crossing these are numerous equally fine, but much less distinct, con- 

 centric lines, and occasional stronger marks of growth. 



Length, measuring obliquely forward and upward from the base to the beaks, 

 0-55 inch ; diameter, from base to hinge, measuring at right angles to the 

 greatest length, 0*40 inch ; convexity, 0-37 inch. 



1861.] 




442 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This heiititiful little shell is very closely allied to C. sericca of Conrad, (Jour. 

 Acad. Nut. vSc-i., Pbila., New Series, vol. 4, page 281, pi. 46,) but differs in 

 being uniformly more bi'oadly ovale in form, and in having less elevated and 

 less distinctly incurved beaks, while its concentric markings are not near so 

 strongly defined. 



Locality and Position. — Same as last. We also have a fragment of appa- 

 rently the same species from the Yellow Stone Kiver, in upper part Fort Pierre 

 Group. 



Genus CARDIUM, Linnaeus. 



Cardium (Hemicardium?) curtcm. 



Shell trigonal, gibbous, closed; anterior side more or less rounded ; posterior 

 side distinctly truncated and transversely flattened ; base forming an elliptic 

 curve; postero-basal extremity angular; hinge very short; beaks elevated, 

 pointed, distinctly incurved, and a little oblique at the immediate points; pos- 

 terior umbonal slopes prominent and angular from the beaks to the base. Sur- 

 face ornamented by about forty five regular, distinct radiating costae, usually 

 a little wider than the deep grooves between, and always simple on the gibbous 

 portion of the valves, but apparently sometimes bifurcating on the truncated 

 posterior side. (Hinge teeth unknown.) • 



Height, 1-74 inch ; breadth, 1'80 inch; conve.xity, l-SOinch. 

 This is a peculiar shell, not liable to be confounded with anj- other species 

 with which we are acquainted. It seems to form a connecting link between 

 the singular group Ilemicardivm and the true typical Cardiurvms ; being one of 

 the many instances met with in the study of fossil species of a form connect- 

 ing groups which in our existing fauna appear to be separated by rather 

 marked difterences. 



Locality and position — Head Gros Ventres River, where it occurs with a 

 large Inoceramus in a gray sandstone, probably of Cretaceous age. Fragments 

 of apparently the same Cardium were brought by Capt. Simpson's Expedition 

 from a yellow sandstone near Bear River, Utah. 



Cardium pertenue. 



Shell rather small and very thin, broad ovate in form, its height being greater 

 than its length, very ventricose ; anterior and basal margins regularly rounded ; 

 posterior side subtruncate ; hinge margin short ; beaks elevated, gibbous, dis- 

 tinctly incurved, and very nearly central; posterior umbonal slopes promi- 

 nently rounded. Surface ornamented by fine lines of growth and a few con- 

 centric wrinkles near the free border; on the posterior half of the valves 

 there are also some fifteen to twenty nearly obsolete radiating costse, which 

 impart to the posterior and postero-basal margins a distinctly crenulated 

 outline. 



Height, 0-64 inch ; diameter, from the anterior to the posterior margin, 0-59 

 inch ; convexity, 0-50 inch. 



This species is of the same type as Cardium suhquadratitm and C. rarum of 

 Evans and Shumard, (Trans. Acad. Sci., St. Louis, vol. 1, p. 39); from both 

 of which it may be at once distinguished by its much more elevated beaks 

 and greater height in proportion to its length. These three species belong to 

 a small group having close relations to Frolocardium, being concentrically 

 striated or nearly smooth on the anterior half of the shell, with faint indica- 

 tions of radiating costae behind. These markings, however, are not so distinct 

 and regular as on the typical species of Protocardiuin ; the concentric striae 

 being merely very fine, obscure lines of growth, and the plications often almost 

 entirely obsolete. 



Locality and position. — Deer Creek, near the North Branch of Platte River, 

 from the upper part of the Fort Pierre Group, or the lower part of the Fox 



Hills Beds. ^^ 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



Genus CALLISTA, Poli. 

 Callista Deweyi. 



Cytherea Dev^ej/i, M. and H., 1856, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci , Pbila., j). 83. 



Meretrix Dewcyi, M. and H., 1860, *' " " " p. 185. 



We have recently had an opportunity to examine some specimens of this 

 species, exhibiting the hinge and other internal characters which we had not 

 previously seen. These show that it cannot properly go into the genus Mere- 

 trix^ {Cytherea,) as that group is now restricted by those conchologists who 

 take as its type such forms as M. impudka, but that it possesses the 

 characters of Callista, Poli, {Dione, Gray,) to which we now remove it.* 



The collections recently brought in from a locality on Deer Creek, a tribu- 

 tary of the North Branch of Platte River, contain a large number of specimens 

 apparenth" of the above species, in a fine state of preservation. Many of these 

 are much larger than the original typical specimens from the Yellow Stone 

 and Moreau Rivers, and they all likewise differ in being a little less convex 

 and in having a somewhat narrower and deeper pallial sinus. It is possible 

 these Deer Creek specimens may belong to a distinct species, but they agree 

 in so many respects with C. Denryi that we do not feel quite warranted in 

 separating them specifically. If they should prove distinct, however, we 

 would propose to designate them by the name C. robusla.f 



Genus TELLINA, Linnajus. 

 Tellina nitidula. 



Shell transversely ovate, thin, rather short and convex for a species of this 

 genus ; anterior side regularly rounded ; base semi-ovate, the most prominent 

 part being in advance of the middle : posterior side narrower than the other, 

 rounding down from above with a graceful, oblique curve ; postero-basal ex- 

 tremity rather narrowly rounded and slightly bent to the right ; dorsal outline 

 sloping from the beaks at an angle of about 1-30° ; beaks moderately promi- 

 nent, approximate, located a little in advance of the middle ; posterior umbo- 

 nal slopes prominent from the beaks to the postero-basal extremity, but not 

 forming a distinct fold. Surface with fine concentric striae, and a few stronger 

 marks of growth. Sinus of pallial line of moderate length, and directed 

 somewhat obliquely downwards ; posterior muscular impression broad ovate. 

 (Hinge unknown.) 



Length, (of a specimen a little under medium size,) 1-10 inches ; height, 0*82 

 inch ; couvexitj', 0-40 inch. 



Not having seen the hinge of this species, we cannot determine with positive 

 certainty its generic characters, though it has the habit and general aspect 

 of a Teilina. It is worthy of note, however, that the sinus of its pallial line 

 seems to be rather short for a species of that genus. In form it resembles 

 somewhat closely our Tellina? Cheyenncnsis, (Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 Apr., 1856, p. 82,) but is a thicker shell, with more pointed beaks, while its 

 concentric striae are not near so regularly arranged. 



Locality and position. — Same as preceding. 



Genus LINGULA, Bruguiere. 



LiNGULA NITIDA. 



Shell small, extremely thin, narrow subelliptical in outline, the greatest 

 breadth being near the middle ; front very narrowly rounded ; sides forming 



* Our Cytherea Ouxnana, (Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., IVovember, ]8.'6,) and C. orbicu- 

 lata, Hall and Meek, should probably also bf removed to the same group. 



t Since ihis was in type, farther comparisons have satisfied us that this is distinct 

 from C. Dtweyi, and we now adopt for it the name Callista robusia. 



1861,] 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



SO gentle a curve as to appear nearly parallel ; beaks rather obtuse, that of the 

 ventral valve being a little more prominent than the other ; valves nearly 

 equally convex, their greatest convexity being along the middle ; surface 

 polished, and only marked by fine lines of growth, which are obsolete on 

 the more convex part of the valves, but become rather distinct on each side. 



Length, 0-36 inch ; breadth, 0-lG inch ; convexity of the two valves about 

 0-10 inch. 



This species differs from L. subspatulata , Hall and Meek, (Mem. Am. Acad. 

 Boston, vol. 5, p. 380, pi. 1, fig. 2, a, b,) in being always much smaller, pro- 

 portionalljf narrower and more convex, as well as in having its front very nar- 

 rowly rounded instead of subtruncate. It never attains one-fifth the size of 

 L. Rouliniana of D'Orbigny, (Pal. Fr. Ter. Cret. Brach., p. 10, pi. 490, fig. 1,) 

 and has a much less pointed beak, as well as a more narrowly rounded front. 



It is often very difficult to distinguish the fossil species of this genus, 

 those coming from very widely difi'erent horizons being sometimes vei-y nearlj' 

 alike, when we know from the vast extent of time that must have elapsed be- 

 tween the periods of their existence, that it is scarcely possible they can be 

 identical. 



Localiiy and position. — Mouth Big Horn River, from near the horizon of the 

 base of the Fox Hills Beds of Nebraska Cretaceous series. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Genus NERIVELLA, Humphrey. 

 Neritella Nebrascensis. 



Shell small, obliquely ov*l ; volutions three to three and a half, increasing 

 rapidly in size, the last one composing more than nine-tenths of the entire 

 shell, all convex; suture well defined; aperture broad ovate, the inner side 

 being nearly straight; columella of moderate length, flattened, smooth, some- 

 what arched, and usually having a distinct opercular impression ; surface 

 soaooth, or only having tine obscure marks of growth, and beautifully orna- 

 mented by alternate dark and light-colored, zigzag transverse bands. 



Height, 0*40 inch; greatest transverse diameter, measuring from the outer 

 side of the aperture, obliquely upwards to the most prominent part of the body 

 whorl on the other side, 0-50 inch; height of aperture, 0-35 inch; breadth of 

 do., 0-25 inch. 



Localiiy and position. Head Wind River, from a bed apparently holding a 

 position at the base of the Cretaceous. 



Genus MELANIA, Lamarck. 



Melania (Potodoma) veterna. 



Shell conical-subovate ; spire moderately elevated, rather pointed at the im- 

 mediate apes; volutions six, very convex, rounded in the middle, and some- 

 times slightly compressed above; suture deep; aperture obliquely oval, nar- 

 rowly rounded below, and obtusely subangular above, much more prominent 

 on the outer than the inner side ; inner lip a little thickened, somewhat arched, 

 and often slightly disconnected from the body whorl below, so as to leave a 

 small umbilical impression; outer lip thin, inversely sigmoid, or broadly sinu- 

 ous above the middle and at the base of the aperture; surface marked by 

 strong flexuous striae of growth, crossed by more or less distinct thread-like 

 revolving lines, which are much more closely arranged on the lower half of the 

 body whorl than above. 



Length, 0-77 inch, breadth, 0-50 inch; apical angle very convex, diver- 

 gence about 47". 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



A marked feature of this species is the ventricose character of its whorls, 

 which will alone distinguish it from all the others yet known in the Nebraska 

 rocks. As is usual with species marked like this, its revolving lines vary much 

 io their distinctness on different individuals. On some specimens they are well 

 defined, while on others they are nearly or quite obsolete. Usually three or 

 four of those around the middle and upper part of the whorls are larger, and 

 separated by much wider spaces, than tiiose on the under half of the body vo- 

 lution. 



Locality and position, same as last. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Genus BACULITES, Lamarck. 



Baculites bacclus. 



Shell slender, straight, and gradually tapering; transverse section broad 

 oval, the larger diameter being to the smaller, as 112 to 90; surface of septate 

 portion having a few distant, broad, undefined lateral undulations. 



Septa rather distant. Dorsal lobe nearly one-third wider than high, provided 

 with two short, widely separated terminal branches, each of which is ornamented 

 by about four short, digitate branchlets; above these terminal divisions there 

 are on each side two very small lateral branchlets, the upper of which are much 

 smaller than the others, and nearly or quite simple, while the other two are 

 distinctly digitate. Dorsal saddle as long as the dorsal lobe, but scarcely more 

 than half as wide, — rather deeply divideti at the extremity into two nearly equal 

 irregularly tripartite branches, with short, variously digitate subdivisions. 

 Superior lateral lobe as long as the dorsal saddle, but narrower, and ornamented 

 at its extremity by four short, subequal, palmately spreading branches, each of 

 which has four or five very small, short, unequal branchlets, and a few digiia- 

 tions ; above these spreading branches the body of the lobe is comparatively 

 narrow, and provided with a single small disiitale lateral branch on each side. 

 Lateral saddle of the same size as the dorsal saddle, and very similarly divided. 

 Inferior lateral lobe broader than the superior, and provided with six short 

 spreading unequal, digitate, terminal branches, of which the three on the dorsal 

 side are a little smaller than the others. Ventral lobe comparatively large, 

 about twice as long as wide, contracted near the middle, and ornamented at the 

 extremity by seven or eight palmately spreading, nearly equal digitations. 



Our sitecimen of this species is a septate fragment four inches in length. At 

 its smaller end it measures 0-90 inch in its greater diameter, and 0-70 inch in 

 its smaller do. Its greater diameter at larger end is 1-12 inch, and its smaller 

 do. 0-90 inch. 



This species will be at once distinguished from the Nebraska shell, referred 

 by all authorities to B. ovatuso{ Say, by its much more rounded form ; indeed, its 

 two diameters are so usually nearl}- equal, and its dorsal and ventral sides so simi- 

 lar, that it, appears almost entirely cylindrical at a first glance, though its sec- 

 tion is a little oval. It has a propoitionally larger ventral lobe than B, ovatus, 

 while in all its other lobes and saddles it presents as great differences as are 

 often seen between those of species of this genus. 



In its nearly cylindrical form, it is more like B. Spillmani of Conrad (Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 2d ser., vol. iii,, pi. 35, fig. 24) than any other species 

 with which we are acquainted ; though it is not flattened on the back, nor ob- 

 tusely carinate on its front, (dorsal side,) as in that shell. As Mr. Conrad's 

 specimen does not show the sej)ta, we have no means of knowing whether these 

 forms resemble in their internal characters or not. 



Localiti/ and position. Deer Creek, a tributary of the north branch of Platte 

 River. Fox 11 ills Beds, upper part. 



1861.] 




446 'proceedings op the academy op 



TERTIARY SPECIES. 



GASTEROPODA. 

 Genus VIVIPARA Lamarck. 



ViVIPARA RaYNOLDSANA. 



yiiell, large, ovate ; spire rather elevated, pointed at the apex ; volution 

 about six and a half; ventricose, increasing rather gradually in size, some- 

 times a little compressed around the middle, so as to present a slightly shoul- 

 dered appearance above ; last one often prominently rounded or faintly sub- 

 angular a little below the middle ; suture well defined ; aperture broad sub- 

 ovate or subcircular ; columella scarcely perforate. Surface of upper whorls 

 usually smooth, or only marked by very obscure lines of growth, which 

 generally become quite strong near the aperture, and ou the under side of the 

 body whorl. On the last two volutions of well preserved specimens, more or 

 less distinct threadlike revolving striae are usually seen, which are rarely con- 

 tinued upon the succeeding turns above ; generally two or three of the revolv- 

 ing lines on the middle of tlie whorls are larger than the others. 



Length, 1*56 inches; breadth, 1-14 inches; apical angle convex; diver- 

 gence 60° to 65°. 



In size and general outline, this fine Vivipara resembles our V. Leidi/i, (== 

 Paludina Leidyi, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Fhila., June, 1856, p. 123), but it 

 differs in having much more convex whorls and a deeper suture. It also 

 diifers from that species in always having its revolving lines most strongly 

 defined on the lower whorls, while those of V. Leidt/i are entirely confined to 

 the upper turns near the summit of the spine. 



From our V. Leai, {=Paludina Leai, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., .June, 

 1856, p. 121), it will be readily distinguished by its larger size, proportionally 

 more elevated spire, and more or less distinct revolving lines. It also differs 

 in having its whorls usually a little compressed around the middle, so as to 

 give them a slightly shouldered appearance above. This latter character and 

 the revolving lines are not, it is true, always distinctly marked, but when 

 they are not, its more attenuate spire and larger size, will alone always serve 

 to distinguish it from V. Leai. 



.\mongsr, recent species it is represented by such forms as V. Burroughiana 

 Lea, and V.carinata Val. It is longer, proportionally thicker, and has a more 

 elevated spire, than the first ; and differs from the latter not only in being 

 much longer, but in always having less angular whorls. Its aperture is also 

 lounder, and less extended below than in V. carinata. 



Named in honor of Captain Wm. F. Raynolds, U. S. Topographical En- 

 gineers. 



Localitij and position. Lower fork of Powder River, Fort Union or Great 

 Lignite Group. Tertiary. 



Genus HELIX Linnseus. 



Helix spatiosa. 



Shell large, rather thin, subdiscoidal, the spire being depressed, but not 

 flat ; umbilicus about half to two-thirds the breadth of the outer whorl at the 

 aperture, deep, conical, and showing near one-fourth of each volution of the 

 spire ; whorls five and a half to six, increasing gradually in size, somewhat 

 depressed and sloping outwards above, narrowly rouuiled, or (in young speci- 

 mens) subangular around the periphery, — ('ompressed convex below, and 

 rounding abruptly into the umbilicus on the inner side : suture moderate^ly 

 distinct ; aperture transversely suboval, being a little wider tliau high, and 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 447 



rather deeply sinuons on the upper inner side, for the reception of the pre- 

 ceding whorl ; lip oblique, produced above and retreating below, somewhat 

 distinctly reflected, particularly on the under side ; surface marked by well 

 defined lines of growth, which cross the upper side of the whorls obliquely. 



Height, 0-90 inch; greatest breadth, 1-83 inches; breadth of aperture, 

 0"74 inch ; height of do., 0*72 inch. Apical angle convex, divergence about 

 120°. 



This fine large Helix will be at once distinguished by its size and general 

 form from any other species yet known in the I^ebraska rocks. Some twelve 

 specimens of it were obtained, all of which are in the condition of internal 

 casts. One or two of them retain some fragments of the shell, which are 

 marked by stroug lines of growth ; none of the specimens, however, are suffi- 

 ciently well preserved to sliow whether or not there were any fine revolving 

 striae. From impressions left on the matrix, the aperture seems to have been 

 a little constricted on tftie under side, but none of the specimens are in a con- 

 dition to show whether or not the lip was much thickened. 



Amongst recent species it may be compared with t)ie Chilian H. laxata of 

 Furisac, from Coquimbo, with which it agrees in size and form, though its 

 umbilicus is proportionally a little smaller, and it has about one whorl more. 

 All its volutions are likewise less rounded on the under side, while its lines 

 of growth are much stronger. The most nearly allied North American living 

 species is //. Newherryana of W. Gr. Binney, a California species, from which 

 it will be readily distinguished. 



Localitjj and position. Wind River Valley. From Wind River Group. 

 Tertiary. 



Helix vetekna. 



Shell of about medium size, obliquely oval and subrhombic in outline ; 

 volutions five and a half, increasing rather rapidly in size, those of th'^ spire 

 moderately convex ; last one comprising about half the entire length, most 

 convex below the middle, rounded on the under side, and somewhat obliquely 

 produced below ; umbilicus small or closed ; suture distinct, but not very 

 deep ; aperture ovate, rather narrowly rounded below, and somewhat obtusely 

 angular above, slightly modified on the inner side above, by the convexity of 

 the preceding whorl ; lip reflexed ; surface marked by distinct, oblique, 

 threadlike striae. 



Height, 1-24 inches; breadth, 1-05 inches; height of aperture, 0-75 inch; 

 breadth of do., 0-57 inch. Apical angle very convex, divergence, 85° to 90°. 



This species is about the siz','and presents much the appearance of //. 

 Leidyi Hall & Meek, (Mem. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci. Boston, vol. v., u. s., p. 

 394, pi. 3, fig. 12 a b.) It is a more elongated shell, however, and its spire 

 is a little more elevated, while its body whorl is more produced below. Its 

 aperture is also quite different, not being near so oblique and more extended 

 below. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



CORRECTION. 



In printing our Catalogue of Nebraska Fossils, in the October number of 

 the Proceedings for 18G0, the family name ARCADiE was inadvertently 

 omitted on p:ige 428, between the names Inoceramus Balchii and Area mlcata, 

 which makes it appear as thoun;h we were intending to place the genera Area, 

 Cuculhea, Axina:a and Linopsis in the family AVICIILID JH 



1801.] 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Description of NEW PLANTS from Texas, 



BY S. B. BUCKLEY. 



These plants were collected by the author while engaged in the State Geo- 

 logical Survejr of Texas, during 1860 and '61. Specimens of them are in the 

 herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia, and also in 

 the herbarium of Elias Durand, Esq. 



RaNUNCULACEjE. 



Clematis T e x e n s i s, n. s. — Caule scandente, foliis pedunculatis, integris, 

 lato-ovatis, acuminatis, mucronatis, breviter petiolatis, foliis caulinis impari- 

 pinnatis,longc petiolatis, foliolis pusillis 1-3 lobis, segmentis lanceolatis,acutis, 

 pedunculis unifloris, sepalis coriaceis, apice parum reflexis ; fructus? 



On the Colorado River above Austin. 



Leaves thin, not coriaceous. Whole plant smooth ; peduncles 2-2J inches 

 long; flowers about an inch long, subconical, purple, floral leaves 2-4, near 

 the junction of the peduncle with the stem large, crowded, and on petioles 2-3 

 lines long, at the base of which are 2-4 spathular bracts. The unequally 

 pinnated stem leaflets small, 1-3 lobed, segments lanceolate and acute, part 

 of these stem leaflets are on long tendril like petioles. Flowers in May. 



Clematis Coloradoensis, n. s. — Caule scandente, ramis rotundis, parce 

 pubescentibus, foliis petiolatis, integris, vel 2-3 lobis segmentis ovato-lanceo- 

 latis, acuminatis, utrinque glabris, pedunculis axillaris, nudis, unifloris, sepalis 

 coriaceis apice reflexis, fructus ? 



North-western Texas near the Colorado River, May. 



Leaves very thin and veins not prominent, mostly 3-lobed, sinuses of the 

 lobes narrow, and extending from one-third to two-thirds of the leaf; lobes 

 acute and mucronate, the middle one largest. Some of the leaf bearing 

 branches twisted, and tendril-like ; peduncles leafless, axillary 3 inches long 

 and one-flowered, flowers f inch long, leaflets 1-2 inches long and 1-1 j wide ; 

 foot stalks of leaflets j an inch in length. Stem, petioles and peduncles 

 sparingly pubescent. 



Crucifer^. 



Streptanthus (Arabis) gl a b r i f ol i u s, n. b. — Glaberimus, caule erecto, 

 3-4 pedali, parce ramoso, foliis oblongis, lineari-lanceolatis, basi attenuatis, 

 breviter petiolatis, acutis, vel subobtusis, petalis spathulatis, (roseo-purpureis^ 

 unguibus calyce subdimidio excedentibus, siliquis immaturis teretiusculis, 

 stylis brevissimo obtusis. Seminibus ? 



Sandy post oak woods north of Fort Belknap. 



Stem erect, and sparingly branched, 3-4 feet high ; flowers crowded near the 

 top on pedicels about \ of an inch long ; petals ^ lines long ; leaves 3—5 inches 

 long and about ^ of an inch wide ; petioles 2-4 lines long. Lower leaves sub- 

 obtuse, upper leaves linear acute. 



Streptanthus (Arabis) Brazoensis, s. nov. — Subglaucescens, foliis 

 caulinis lanceolatis, radicalibus longe petiolaris, oblongo-ovatis ad basi parce 

 lyrato sectis et repando dentatis, dentibus submucronatis ; floribus pusillis, 

 erectis ; petalis oblongo spathulatis, albidis etpurpureo-tinctis, calycem paulo 

 excedentibus, filamentis, liberis, paulo exsertibus, siliquis lato linearibus, 

 in loculis circe 20 seminibus latissime alatis septo jequalibus. 



On the Upper Brazos near Fort Belknap, May. 



Plant 1-2 feet high ; leaves lr}-2 inches long, the upper ones lanceolate, en- 

 tire, acute and attenuate at the base into a petiole 4 lines long, with 1-2 linear 

 bracts at its base. Radical leaves lyrate, petioled, subpubescent, petioles an 

 inch long, flowers very small pedicels 4 lines long, seeds circular. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Lepidium T e x a n u m, s. nov. — Annuum, glabrum vel parce pulverulentum, 

 caulibus diffusis, racemosis ; foliis superne integris anguste linearibus, basi at- 

 tenuatis, radicalibus longe petiolatis, et pinnato-sectis, racemis densifloris, 

 floribus minutissimus, petalis ovato-lanceolatis, acutis calyce paulo excedenti- 

 bus, siliculis elliptico-ovatis apteris, valde emarginatis, glabris ; stylo bre- 

 visissimo. 



Near Fort Mason. June. 



1-2 feet high, divaricately branched, branches terminated by long racemes 

 of minute flowers ; sillicles a line in length, strongly emarginated ; the very 

 short style included. 



Caryophyllace^. 



Arenaria (Alsine) m o n t i c o 1 a, s. nov. — Annua, pumilla, parce pubescenti- 

 glandulosa, caulibus diffusis, foliis pumilis, obovatis, acutis, basi attenuatis, 

 subpetiolatis, petalis obovatis, acutis, calyce fere duplo brevioribus, sepalis 

 ovato-lanceolatis, acuminatisque scariosis ; floribus longe pedicellatis. 



Limestone, mountain tops middle and northern Texas. May. 



Glabrous or sparingly pulverulent pubescent; 6-10 inches high, diffusely 

 branched from the base ; leaves 3-4 lines long. 



Malvace^. 



Sida Sabeana, s. nov. — Caule erecto, 3-4 pedali tereti. Foliis ovato- 

 lanceolatis petiolatis, inequaliter dentatis, dentibus acutis, vel subobtusis 

 caulibus, petiolisque et pedicellis pulverulentis, floribus pumilis pedicel- 

 latis subpaniculatis, petalis oblongo-obovatis, sepalis ovato-lanceolatis, acu- 

 minatis. 



Prairies San Saba County. June. 



Divaricately and sparingly branched; leaves 1-1 J inches long; petioles 4 

 lines in length ; flowers yellow and crowded or solitary on short pedicels, ax- 

 illary, or at the extremity of the branches. 



CallirrhoB p a 1 m a t a, s. nov. — Caule prostrata, parce strigosa, foliis longe 

 petiolatis, reniformisque palmato 3-5 sectis, laciniis 3-5 fidis subobtusis acutis, 

 pedunculis erectis, axillaribus, solitariis, unifloris folio longioribus ; calycis 

 hirsutis, lanceolatis, acuminatis, petalis obovato-rotundatis, albis, vel parum 

 caerulis, calyce duplo longioribus ; floret June. 



Common on Brady's Creek north of Fort Mason. Stems from a small, long, tap 

 root, creeping in different directions to the distance of 1-2 feet ; leafy, radi- 

 cal and cauline leaves, similar, flowers, 1-1^ inches in diameter, generally 

 white, rarely of a pale purple ; peduncles 2^-3 inches long ; petioles |-2 inches 

 long. 



Sidalcea A t a c o s a, s. nov. — Tota planta hirsuta, caule erecta, ramis nu- 

 merosis foliis ovatis, plurime,et irregulariter sectis laciniis acutis; multifloris, 

 floribus axillaribus et capitatis, pedicellis calyce brevioribus, pedicellis brac- 

 teosis, valde hirsutis, coccis hirsutis, rugosis, subreniformis. 



On the Atacosa River in Western Texas. May. Stems about a foot high ; 

 lobes of the unequally divided leaves gash-toothed. Our specimens are in 

 fruit only. 



Malvastrum 1 i n e a r i f ol i u m, s. nov. — Ramis, et foliis parce pilosis. In- 

 volucellum nullum, vel caducum, humile, foliis petiolatis, lineari-lanceolatis, 

 ad apice dentatis, bracteolis ad basi calycis numerosis, lineari-elongatis, 

 valde pilosis calyce longioribus ; segmentis calycis ovatis, acutis, floribus 

 glomeratis, axillaribus, sen capitatis, carpellis muticis. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Stems branching 6-10 inches high ; leaves about f of an inch long and 2-3 

 lines wide ; petioles 6-8 lines long ; flowers small, shortly pedicellate ; at the 



1861.] 30 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



base of the pedicels are numerous long linear bracts or stipules, some of which 

 are also at the foot stalks of the leaves, and coated with long stellate hairs. 

 Stipules about ^ an inch long. 



Elidorandia, Gen. nov. Malvacearum. 



Involucellum polyphyllum, persistens ; stigmata 5-capitata ; capsula 5-locu- 

 lare ; carpellis unilocularis verticellater 2-spermis. 



Calyx five-parted involucellate, with 8-10 long spathulate and persistent 

 bracts; petalis 5 obovate, hypogynous, convolute in aestivation ; stamens nu- 

 merous, monadelphous at the summit of an urceolate column ; filaments short ; 

 anthers reniforra, ovules ascending peritropous, micropyles inferior. Fruit an 

 oblong, depressed capsule, subobtusely pointed, and included in the involucre ; 

 valves alternate with the sepals ; dissepiments attached to the middle of the 

 valves ; seeds 2 in each cell, ascending, united and truncate at points of 

 union ; subovate ; testa coriaceous, rough and woolly ; embryo small ; in- 

 curved in the fleshy albumen ; radicle inferior. 



Elidurandia Texan a. — Herbaceous, foliis ovatis, petiolatis, integris, re- 

 pando-dentatis ; dentibus mucronatis ; floribus longe pedunculatis ; corolla 

 ampla coccinea. 



Plant one to two feet high, branching from the root ; outer branches pro- 

 cumbent ; leaves 1-1^ inches long; petioles t} inch long, and peduncles 1-3 

 Inches in length, one-flowered. 



On the banks of the Colorado River, above Austin. Flowers May and June. 



In honor of the well known botanist, Elias Durand, author of several papers 

 on American botany. 



Linage.*. 



Linum (Linopsis) S a n -S a b ean u m,'s. nov. — Annuum, humile. Ramis 

 numerosis gracilibus, teretis, foliis parvis, linearibus, calycis 2-4 stipularibus, 

 linearibus; ramis, foliisque calycis, canescenti-pilosis; floribus parvis, pluri- 

 mis, pedicellatis, capsulae parvas, depresso-globosaj, semiseptis. 



Prairies San Saba County. 



6-8 inches high, with many slender branches from near the root. Leaves 

 -|- an inch long and scarce a line wide, not subulate or rigid, pedicels 4 lines 

 long. 



RUTACE.*. 



Zanthoxj-lum h i r su t u m, s. nov. — Arbor. Ramis junioribus et petiolls, 

 armatisque valde hirsutis, foliis pinnatis 2-3 jugis, foliolis ovato-lanceolatis, 

 crenatis, obtusis, floribus breviter paniculatis axillaribus, seu terminalibus, 

 carpellis subcordatis, 1-2 spermis, spermi subovatis. 



Near Corpus Christi. 



Tree about 25 feet high and 8-12 inches in diameter. Branches armed with 

 stout recurved prickles. Leaflets opposite or subalternate. Trunk and old 

 branches gray and smooth. 



VlTACEiK. 



Ampelopsis (Cissus) heptaphylla, s. n. — Foliis petiolatis, palmato 

 7-foliatis ; foliolis pumilis ovato-lanceolatis sessilibus vel breviter petiolatis, 

 apice mucronato-dentatis, acuminatis, panicuHs ramis dichotomo-divaricatis, 

 longe pedunculatis; floribus parvis, petalis distinctis, oblongo-lanceolatis, 

 subobtusis, staminibus exsertis. Stylo longissimo, baccis rotundis 3-4 

 spermis. 



Common on the mountains in Burnet and San Saba Counties, climbing some- 

 times to the height of 25-30 feet. 



Vitis monticola, s. nov. — Ramis decumbentibus 4-6 pedali. Foliis 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCtENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 451 



parvis, cordatis, dentat.is aut crenatis, dentibus inequalibus basi sinuatis ; 

 siau profundo et angusto, vel lato-repando ; glabriusculis, juaioribus sub- 

 pubescentibus ; ramis, petiolis, nervisquefoliorumarachnoideo-pubescentibus. 

 Racemis valde compositis ; baccis coafertis, albis ambreisve, gustu suavi et 

 inter uvas Americaaas gratissime. Crescit in Texas. 



Leaves 1 J-2 inches long, and nearly of the same width ; petioles about an 

 inch and a half in length. Fruit ripe in July and August, f of an inch in 

 diameter, skin thin. Grows in the mountainous districts of Burnet, Bell and 

 Hays Counties. 



Vitis Linsecomii, s. n. — Ramis decumbentibus 4-6 pedali. Foliis 

 magnis reniformi-cordatis integris, vel 5-lobatis ; totis obtusis, crenato-den- 

 tatis ; dentibus submucronatis, superne glabriusculis ; subtus dense rufo- 

 arachnoideo-tomentosisque et petiolis etjunioribus ramis; racemis composi- 

 tis, foliis brevioribus ; baccis purpureis ; gusto acido grato. Crescit in Texas 

 et Louisiana. 



This grape has larger leaves than any other American species ; 6-10 inches 

 wide and of nearly the same length. Its fruit ripens the first of July ; skin 

 thin, and berry | in. diameter, juicy and of a pleasant acid taste. 



Vitis mustangensis, s. n. — Foliis cordatis, integris non nunquam 3-5 

 lobatis, parum ad basi sinuatis ; superne viridissimus, glabris, infra pedun- 

 culisque et ramis junioribus dense albo-floccoso-tomentosis ; racemis com- 

 positis, foliis brevioribus, baccis magnis, confertis, atro-caeruleis, subpellico 

 saccum rubricundum acridissime-ferventum continentibus ; pulpa vera non 

 ingrato gusto, nee noscia. 



This is called the Mustang grape in Texas, where it is very common. It 

 makes an excellent wine ; but is little esteemed for eating on account of an 

 acrid juice beneath the skin, which, if swallowed, gives a burning pain in 

 the throat. It climbs high, bears abundantly and has large fruit, which is 

 sometimes nearly an inch in diameter. Its leaves are neither toothed or mu- 

 cronate. 



A more detailed account of these new species of Vitis is given by the au- 

 thor in an article on North American Grapes, in the Patent Office Report, 

 (Agricultural,) 1861. 



Legumisos^. 



Psoralea p a 1 m a t a, s. nov. — Caule erecto 2-3 pedali, simplo, vel parce 

 ramoso, parum canescenti-villoso, foliis 5-foliat, petiolatis, foliolis lanceolatis, 

 submucronatis, snbtus canescenti-pilosis, supra rugosis, floribus longe peduncu- 

 latis, subcapitatis, bracteatis, bracteisque calycibus^^villosis, ovato-lanceolatis, 

 acuminatis. 



South of Fort Belknap. 



Stem simple, with few le.aves ; 2-3 feet high ; petioles 1-2 inches long. 

 Leaflets lJ-2 laches long. Flowers axillary and terminal, on peduncles 3-5 

 inches long; 8-10-flowered in a loose head. 



Indigofera c i a e r e a, s. nov. — Annua, cinerea, decumbens, caule tereti, 

 ramoso, foliis impari pinnatis 2-5-jugis, foliolis spathulatis acutis ad basi 

 attenuatis, subpetiolatis stipulis parvis subulatis, pedunculis parvi-floris, folio 

 multo longloribus, ca^lycis lineari-subulatis corolla brevioribus, leguminibus 

 rectis, reflexis, teretis, acutis, 4-6 spermis. 



Washington County, Texas, iliss Sallie Linsecom. 



Whole plant covered with white appressed hairs. Leaves, including the 

 petioles, 1-1 i inches long; leaflets ^ in. in length; peduncles 3-7 inches, ax- 

 illary and capitate, few-flowered ; flowers large in proportion, white tinged 

 with red. 



Indigofera T e x a n a, s. nov. — Tola planta canescenti-pilosa, sufFruticosa 

 erecta vel deeambens, caale tereti, foliis subsessilibus, foliolis ouneati-obovatis 



1861.] 




452 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



breviter petiolatis, 2 — 3-jugis cum impari sen oppositse folioli, submucronatJs; 

 pedunculis elongatis parvifloris, calycis longe lineari-acHminatis hirsutis, sti- 

 pulis parvis subulatis, leguminibus reflexis, Talde quadrangulatis, rectis, acutis, 

 8 — lO-spermis. 



Near Fort Mason, Texas. Jnne. 



12 — 18 inches high, with many stems from the same root. Leaflets ^ an inch 

 long, leaves 1 — IJ inch long; pods 1 — 1^ inch in length ; spikes 3 — 4 inches. 



Amorpha T e x a n a, s. dot. — Frutieosa, foliis magnis, foliolis 4 — 6-jugi8, el- 

 liptico-oblongatis emarginatis mucronatis basi obtusis, breve petiolatis, subtus 

 glandHloso-pubeseentibus supra glabris, spicis axillaribus vel capitatis glandu- 

 loso-tomentosis, folio parum longioribus, sublaxifloris, floribus breve pedicel- 

 latis, calycis dentibus, subaqualibus, ovatis, acutis, stylo exserto villoso, legu- 

 minibus subobovatis, arcuatis, acutis. 



On the Pierdenalis River. June. 



Shrub 4 — 5 feet high. Racemes and flowers brownish-red ; filaments and 

 style long, exserted ; leaflets 1 — 2 inches long and f — 1|- wide, the pairs at 

 intervals of about an inch from each other; corolla more than twice the length 

 of the calyx; flowers large in comparison with the other species. 



Astragalus Brazoensis, s. nov. — Erectus, glabriusculis, subsesfilifolius ; 

 stipulis trangulari-ovatis, acutis; foliolis obcordatis, 5 — 7jugis, pedunculis 

 folio parum longioribus; floribus capitatis, ocroleucris ; calycis dentibus parvis 

 acuminatis, parce canescenti-pilosis ; leguminibus membranaceis, glabris. didy- 

 mis ; loculis monospermis ; seminibus reniforrais glabris. 



Western Texas. June. 



6 — 8 inches high ; smooth or with a very few short, appressed white hairs ; 

 leaflets 3 lines long, the lowest pair near the stem. Legumes double the size 

 of those on Astragalus didymocarpus, Hook. 



Phaca (Astragalus) cretacea, s. nov. — Tota parce canescenti-pilosa, sub- 

 acaulis difi"usis ; foliis longe petiolatis ; foliolis 6 — 8-jngis, ovato-lanceolatis, 

 submucronatis ; scapo foliis parum longiori ; floribus capitatis ocroleucris ; 

 bracteis oblongo-linearis ; calycis dense pilosis, dentibus longe attenuatis, 

 leguminibus ovato-lanceolatis, acuminatis, coreaceo-membranaceis, incanis, 

 lato-falcatis, aut rectis. 



Cretaceous rocks, Northern Texas. May. 



Plant 4 — 6 inches high. Many leaves and scapes from a stem ^ — 1 inch high. 

 Scapes and leaves nearly equal. Legumes 1 — IJ inches long. Leaflets 4 lines 

 long and 2 — 3 lines wide. 



Baptisia T e X a n a, e. nov. — Glabra, caule erecto ramoso; foliis palmato- 

 trifoliatis, breviter petiolatis; foliolis ovato-lanceolatis, acutis ; stipulis ovato- 

 lanceolatis, acuminatis, foliolis, triplo brevioribus, bracteis minutis, ovatis, 

 caducis ; racemis erectis brevibus ; pedicellis calycem cequantibus ; dentibus 

 calycibus lato-ovatis, acutis, floribus magnis breve pedicellatis ; legumine im- 

 maturae lineari-lanceolati, stipati. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Plant U— 2 feet high ; petioles 2 lines long; pedicels 3 — 4 lines in length ; 

 leaflets | — 1 inch long ; stipules J — ^ in. in length ; flowers few, and not crowded. 



Cassia Tex an a, s. nov. — Suff'ruticosa ; ramis et foliis glanduloso-pubes- 

 centibus, foliolis 14 — 18-jugis, lineari-oblongis, subfalcatis, 2 — 3 nervismargine ; 

 ciliatis ; stipulis ovatis, acuminatis ; racemis 1 — 2 floris folio subaequantibus ; 

 legumine lato lineari acuminato, 6 — 10 spermls. 



Sandy soil, Bastrop County. 



Stem difi'usely branched and 6 — 10 inches high ; lowest pair of leaflets near 

 the stem, and each succeeding pair shorter to the apex, giving an ovate form to 

 the leaf. Flowers yellow and large; legume !• — 2 inches long, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45^ 



Nov. Gen. Cesalpin^. 



Hoopesia. — Calyx ebracteatu?, profunde quinquefidus vel quiaquepartitus ; 

 laciaiis lanceolatis, subinajqualibus, liueari-acutis, corolla petallis 5 subpapi- 

 lioaaceis, longe unguiculatis ; stamiais 10 libera, tilameniis ad basi lanuginosis, 

 ovarium stipatum pluriovulalum ; stylus basi dilitatus, filiformis, tilarneutis 

 parum loagior; stigma parva, legumeu longe stipatum, lato-laaceolatum paree 

 compressum, obtusum, 8 — 10 spermis, tardi deliisceas, semea reaiiormis. 



Hoopesia arborea. — Arbor, ramis spinosis, foliis bipinati?, 1 — 3-jugis, foll- 

 olis oppositis, obovatis oblusis, 3 — 6-jugis, floribus axillaribus, subsoliiariis, 

 breviter pedunculatis. 



Near Corpus Cbristi. May. 



Tree 20—25 feet high and 8 — 12 inches in diameter ; bark of trunk and 

 branches smooth, and of a pale green ; branches numerous, forming a dense 

 shade; legume 4 inches long, 10 lines wide and 8 lines thick. Seeds large, 

 divided by septa; spiaes axillary, doable, stipular, subulate and small; fljwers 

 yellow, with reddish-brown lines near the base of the limb of the petals. la- 

 seots have destroyed the embryo in our fruiting specimens. 



Dedicated to Joshua Hoopes, of Westchester, Pennsylvania, a zealous botanist, 

 who has loag studied and admired trees.; 



Acacia S ab ean a, s. nov. — Fruticosa; ramis teretibus, juuioribusque peti- 

 olis glanduloso-pubescentibus; foliis bipianatis, pinans 2 — l-ju^is, pinnulis 

 4 — 6-jugis, ovatisve rhombo-ovatis, subtuucronatis, utrinqae glabris ; slipulis 

 ovatis, longe acuminatis ; floribus magnis, longe-pedunculatis, moaocepbalis, 

 erectis, capitulis multifloris, filamentis luage exsertis, legumine immatura; lato 

 lineari tomentose, falcata acuminata, longe stipata. 



Banks of the S in Sab i River. June. 



Shrub 6 — 10 feet high, bra:ching from near the ground. Leaves, including 

 the petiole, 4 — 5 inches long, leaflets inequilateral and f of an inch long and 

 J an inch wide ; flowers numerous, bright yellow, in solitary heads on pedun- 

 cles 2 — 3 inches long; heads round, an inch in diameter. 



Acacia D u r a n d i a n a, s. nov. — Fruticosa, glabriusculis alternatis recurvis ; 

 pinnis 2 — 3 jugis; foliolis 3 — 4-jugis, obovatis mucronaiis, spicis elongatis, 

 multifloris, foliolis multo longiorious, floribus brevissime pedicellatis, legumine 

 glabro, lato-lineari obtusove acuto margins andulato. 



Near Fort Belknap. 



Shrub 3 — 4 feet high, diffusely branched from the base, aad armed with 

 rather slender, recurved prickles. Flowers yellow and numerous, spikes 2 — 3 

 inches long. Leaflets 2 — 3 lines long, inequilateral and mucronate, subglandular 

 and slightly pubescent; pod 2 — 3 inches long and of uneqaal widih, from }> — | 

 of an inch, the apex often rounded or retuse and rarely acute. 



Acacia Nueciana, s. nov. — Fruticosa; ramis junioribus, foliisque et spicis 

 glanduloso-pubescentibus; foliis 3 — .1-jugis foliolis 7 — lO-jugis, lineari-lanceo- 

 latis inequilateralis acutis, breviter petioUtis spinis stipularibus rectis parvis 

 Bubulatis ; pedunculis solitariis elongatis, floribus capitatis 10 — 14-meris, calycis 

 campanulatis breviter denia'is, petalis calyce triplo longioribus acutis. 



Near the Nueces River. 



Shrub 4 — 6 feet high, the stipular prickles 2 — 3 lines long, and in divergent 

 p.iirs ; flowering peduncles 1 — 15 in. long; florets capitate shortly pedicellate, 

 corolla ^ of an inch long; filaments long, exserted ; heads of flowers | of an 

 inch in diameter; leaves 2 — 3 inches long; leaflets 3 — 4 lines in length and 2 

 lines wide. 



Mimosa c ale are a, s. nov. — Hamilis, fruticosa; 8 — 12 policaris, valde ar- 

 matis ; spinis rectis duplis longissimis, pinnis unijugis ; foliolis 6 — 10-jugis, 



1861.] 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



obovatip, obtusis, puberulis, capitatis ; capitibug, lanoso-tomentosis ; floribus albis 

 leguminibus? 



Limestone bills near Live Oak iu South-western Texas. 



Plant about a foot in height, branching from the root, very thorny ; spines 

 axillary, slender, about an inch in length. Leaves small, an inch long. Leaf- 

 lets dense, 2 — 3 lines long; peduncles -| of an inch long; heads globose and 

 solitary. 



Desmanthus pedunculatus, s. nov. — Suffruticosa, caule tereti, pinnis 

 6 — 8-jugip, pilosis ; stipulis setaceis,foliolis 12 — 16-jugis, elliptico-oblongis, sub- 

 mucronatis, pedunculis teretis, folium subaequantibus, capitulis globosis, legu- 

 minibus umbellatis, rectis, linearis, compressis, acuminatis, glabris, 12 — 22 

 spermis, seminibus subreniformis. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Plant 2 — 3 feet high, sparingly branched, the whole, excepting the pods, 

 covered with a white, glandular pubescence. Leaves, including the petioles, 

 2 — 5 inches long ; peduncles 2| — 3 inches long; legumes 2 — 3 in. in length. 



Desmanthus r h m b i fo 1 i u s, s. nov. — Suffruticosa, caulisque pedunculis 

 angulatis, subglandulosis, stipulis parvis, subulatis ; foliis 3 — 5-jugis; foliolis 

 6 — 8-jugig, rhomboideo-ovatis, ad basi inequalihus, brevissime pedicellatis, in- 

 equilateralis, obtusisve submucronatis, pedunculis folium longioribus, capitulis 

 globosis, leguminibus umbellatis, falcatis, rostratis, compressis 8 — 12-spermis, 

 seminis ellip?oideis. 



Buchanan County. June. 



Subdecumbent. It has several stems about a foot long from the root. Stems 

 and peduncles glandular pubescent. Leaves, including the petioles, about an 

 inch and a half long; peduncles 3 — 4 inches long; legumes 1| — 2 inches long; 

 leaflets very inequilateral, hairy on the margins, 2 — 3 lines long, IJ — 2 lines 

 wide. 



EOSACE^. 



Crataegus Texan a, s. nov. — Arbor 20 — 25-pedalis ; inermis; foliis lato- 

 cvatis ad basi cuneatis, inequaliter dentatis ; dentibus acutis ; subtus juni- 

 oribusque et petiolis pubescentibus ; peduncles, pedicelisque calycis dense 

 lanoso-tomentosis; petalis obovatis, calyce longioribus; calycis laciniae latceo- 

 latae, acuminatae; fructu coccinei, ellipsoidea calyce coronati. 



Common along the Brazos and Colorado Rivers. 



Bark of trunk and branches dark gray, furrowed and rough, resembling that 

 of the dogwc od, (Cornus f 1 o r i d a.) Leaves large, incisely and doubly toothed, 

 nea}ly as broad as long; petioles not margined, about an inch in length ; old 

 leaves arachnoid, tomentose beneath, smooth above ; fruit large, red and edible ; 

 ripe last of October ; trunk 6 — 10 inches in diameter. 



Onagrace^. 



Gaura triangul ata, s. nov. — Su£FruticoEus,ramosissimug, ramulisque foliis 

 parce canescenti-pilosis, floribus parvis, foliis sessilibus, liLeari-lanceolatis, 

 actitis, rare dentatis, rarois floriferis nudis, parum elongatis ; bracteis minutis, 

 subulatis ; fructibus glabris valde triangularibus, basi obtusis, subsessilibus 

 apice breviter subacutis. 



Prairies northern Texas. May. 



Plant a foot high. Leaves f — 1 inch long, 2 — 3 lines wide, crowded ; fruit 

 5 lines long and 3 lines wide, angles acute. 



(Enothera (Salpigia) Lampasana, 3. nov. — Caule subprostata, glanduloso- 

 pilosa ; foliis numerosis, ovato-lanceolatis, integris subsessilibus, acutis, glandu- 

 loso-pubescentibus, calycis tubo longissimo ; petalis lato-obovatis, eroso-crenu- 

 latis, stamina longioribus; stigmati lato-discoideo, capsulis cylindraceis, sessili- 

 bus, valde pilosis. 



Prairies, Lampasas County. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



Stems 1 — 2 feet long, with many branches; leaves of the branches J an inch 

 long, termininating rather abruptly at both ends ; flowers nearly 2 inches long, 

 aad the diameter of the expanded petals U inches. 



(Eaolhera (Oniigra) L e o n a, s. nov. — Param piilverulenta-pilosa ; foliis ovato- 

 lanceolalis ; longe ncuminalis, sessilibus, parce dentatis, dentibus mioutis, 

 floribus magnis, plurimis ; spicis striatis, elongatis; bracteis lanceolatis, acumi- 

 naiis; calyce tubo lineari-elongata, petalis ovato-lanceolatis, acutis, capsulis 

 elongatis, subquadrangulatis, hirsiuis, arcuatis. 



Near Leon River. June. 



Stems simple, H — 2 feet high ; capsules sessile, i an inch long ; upper leaves 

 somewhat clasping, those near the root attenuate almost to a petiole ; stems and 

 leaves subpilose, with short white, appressed hairs; leaves Ij — 2^ inches long; 

 flowers nearly 2 inches long and l^ broad. 



LOASACE^l, 



Ment?;elia (Eumentzelia) p e t i o 1 a t a, s. nov. — Caule decumbente, ramosis 

 sime, foliis ovalis, parce grandi-dentatis, acutis, ad basi subcuneatis, longe 

 petiolaiis ; segmentis calycis subulatis, corolla parum longior, petalis subovatis, 

 acutis; capsulis breviter clavatis, canescenti-hirsutissimis. 



Llano County. June. 



Stems 2 — 2^ fi-et long; petioles 1 — H inches long; capsules h an inch in 

 length. Whole plant rough-pubescent, with the adherent stems and leaves 

 peculiar to the genus. 



Saxifragacea. 



Saxifraga (Micranthis) T e x a n a, s. nov. — Foliis omnibus radicalibus, glan- 

 duloso-pubescentibus , obovalis, integris, breviter lato-petiolatis ; caule simplice, 

 parce pubesceuti ; bracteis linearis, vel subspathulatis ; floribus paniculato- 

 cymosis, sepalis ovatis, suhacutis, petalis spathulato-obovatis ; calyee parum 

 longioribus. 



Prairies Northeastern Texas. March. 



4 — 6 inches high. Leaves nearly sessile, and, including petiole, f — 1 inch 

 long, obtuse and about an inch wide. 



Umbellifer^. 



Cymopteribus (Eucymopteris) macrorhizus, s. nov. — Glaucus ; radix na- 

 piformis, caulis erecti=i ; foliis pinnati-decomposiiis, divisionibus confluentibus ; 

 foliorum segmentis plurimis, ovatis, seu subovatis, obtusis, vel subacuiis, in- 

 volucellis 5 — 7-parlitis, lobis lanceolatisve ovatis, membranaceis, laciniatis. 



Prairies north of Austin. Last of March. 



6 — 8 inches high; root 1 — 2 inches in diameter; caudix 1 — 2 in. high; 

 leaves long petioled, oblong ovate in outline, the somewhat winged petiole 

 expanding into leaflets, which are 8 — 10 lobed ; petioles of the outer leaves 

 widening near the base, and clasping the stem ; leaves 2 — 3 inches long ; peti- 

 oles 1 — 2 inches in length ; fruit 3 lines long ; wings wide and thin. 



Eurytenia m a c r o p h y 1 1 a, s. nov — Tota glabra; umbellis magnis, 10 — 14 

 longe radiatis ; involucrum e foliolis parvis 3-sectis ; segmentis longe linearis 

 involucellum e foliolis numerosis, 3-fidis, laciniis, linearis, acutis, petalis albis, 

 lato obovatis, emarginatis; foliis caulinis snperiores pinnati sectis, segmentis 

 elongato-linearis ; inferiores pinnatis, 2 — 3-jugis ; foliolis ovatis inequaliter 

 magna-dentatis, seu lanceolatis, dentibus mucronatis ; foliis radicalibus peti- 

 olatis, 3 — 5 lobis segmentis ovatis. 



Washington County. Dr. Linsecom. 



Lower cauline leaves 3 — 4 inches in length ; leaflets sessile or clasping, 

 about an inch and a half in length and an inch wide; petioles U — 2 inches 

 long; rays of the umbel 2 — 3 inches. 



1861.] 




456 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Composite. 



Eupatoriura Sabeanura, n. s. — Saffruticosa, paullum pnbescenti ; ramis 

 teretibus, erectis, plurimis ; foliis oppositis, petiolatis, ovatis, acumiaatis, 

 ad basi subcuneatis ; involucri squamis imbricatis, oblnngo linearis, apice ob- 

 tusis, vel suboiucronatis ; achenia oblongae et quinquecostata, glabra; costis 

 albo-sericeis. 



Saa Saba County. May. 



Tills species belongs to the section Cylindrocephala of De CandoUe. Its 

 leaves are 1^ — 2 inches long; petioles 4 — 6 lines in length, 2 — 4 stipules in the 

 axils; stipufes petiolate ovale lanceolate ; leaves long acuminate, with margins 

 entire; rarely some few leaves have distant coarse teeth. 



Bulbostylis (BrickfUia) deltoides, s. nov. — Fruticosa, ramoso ; ramis 

 teretibus, junioribus pubescentibus ; foliia utrinque glabris, oppositis, crenato- 

 dentatis, obtusis deltoideo-ovatis, petiolatis, trinervis ; petiolis glanduloso- 

 pubescentibus ; floribus coryrabosis axilUribus aut terminalibus ; involucri 

 squamis lineari-oblongis, laxe irabricatis : achenia tereti striate subpiloso. 



Northern Texas. May. 



A branching shrub, 3 — 4 feet high ; flowers few, small and mostly terminal ; 

 petioles ^ — I inch long; leaves 1| — 2 inches long and 1^ wide. 



Kuhnia m a c r a n t h r a, s. nov. — Herbacea ; caule 8 — 12 policaris, ramoso ; 

 foliis sessilibus ovato-lanceolatis, puberulo-pubescentibus; margiae integris, 

 vel interupli-dentatis; floribus maguis, purpureis subcorymbosis. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Scales of the involucre loosely imbricated, linear-oblong, the longest nearly 

 equal in length to the flowers of the disk ; leaves about an inch long ; flower- 

 ing stems 1 — 2 inches below the flowers, destitute of leaves, but furnished with 

 linear bracts aboui i an inch in length. 



Erigeron Brazoense, s. nov. — Herbaceum,ramosum, pilosum ; foliis nume- 

 rosis, lato-spathulatii, subraucronatis, caulinis sessilibus vel breve petiolatis, 

 radicalibus petiolatis ; ligulis albis, linearibus, acutis, confertissimis, subuni- 

 serialis, involuerum duplo excedentibus ; involucri squamis, linearibus, acutis, 

 discum aquantibus. 



On the waters of the Upper Brazos. May. 



Plant 8 — 10 inches higb ; leaves l^ — 2 iuches long, and the largest about ^ 

 an inch wide; radical leaves mostly petioled ; petioles ^ — 1^ inches long; 

 whole plant sparingly coated with white hairs, not appressed; branches nume- 

 rous and erect; coattd thickly with leaves to the summit, 



Erigeron (Earigera) nudiflorum, s. n. — Hirsutum pumilum, ramosum ; 

 foliis lineari-oblongis, integris, acutis, confertissimis ; ramis apice longe nudis, 

 monocephalis; ligulis albis, plurimis, subuniseriatis, involuerum duplo excidenti- 

 bus. acheniis oblongis, glabris, vel parum pilosis ; pappo radii et disci conformi, 

 duplici ; exteriore breve setacea. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Very much branched from the root. Stems erect, 4 — 6 inches high; leaves 

 numerous near the root and upwards on the stems about 3 inches; the upper 

 stems, two inches below the flowers, naked; whole plant strigose hirsute, the 

 white hairs not appressed ; flowers about ^ of an inch in diameter ; leaves ^ — 1 

 inch long and a little more than a line wide. 



Macbaeranthera (DieteriaJ grandiflora, s. nov. — Glabra, vel subpubes- 

 cens ; caule ramosissimo ; foliis numerosis, superne lineari-lanceolatis, subam- 

 plexi-caulis, acuiis; inferne pinnato secti-i, segmentis plurimis, acutis ; involucri 

 squamis inibricatis 3 — 4 serialis, lineari-oblongis, abrupte acutis, disco brevi- 

 oribus; pappo rufo setaeeo ; acheniis obovatis, sericeis striatis, receptaculum 

 convexum, alveolatum, alveolae margine lacerae. 



West of Fort Mason. June. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



12 — 18 inches high; leaves alternate | — 1 inch long; whole plant rigid; 

 flowers f of an inch in diameter. 



Aplopappus linearifolius, s. nov. — Tota glabra ; caule diffuse ramosis- 

 simo, striato ; foliis lioeari-elongatis, sessilibusque acutis ; iavolucri squamis, 

 3-8erialis, lanceolatis acutis ; pappo albo, setaceo, receptaculuoi, planum alveo- 

 latum; achenia cylindrica, striata, parum sericea. 



Llano County. June. 



Stems procumbent, and branches extending 1 — 2 feet; leaves about a line in 

 width and an inch long, alternate and numerous; flowers few, J an inch in 

 diameter ; receptacle deeply alveolate, and margins of the cells chaffy. 



Parthenium 1 o b a t u ra, s. nov. — Annua, canle herbaceo-ramoso, glanduloso; 

 foliis ainuato pinnati-fidis, lobis obtusis et submucronatis foliis superne sessili- 

 bus ; inferno petiolatis, utriaque pabescentibus, involucri squamis obtusissimis, 

 margine valde, et minute lacineatis, acheniis sericeis, obovatis, pappo paleaceo 

 breve aristato. 



Western Texas. June. 



About afoot high; flowers numerous, glomerated at the ends of the branches. 



Aphanostephus p i 1 o s u s, s. nov. — tfumile, ramosissinae, utrinque pilosa ; 

 foliis linearis, basi attenuatis, acutis ; involucri squamis, lanceolatis, subulatis, 

 margine membranaceis, ligulis albis, linearibus involucri duplo longioribus ; 

 acbneiis teretibus, subarcuatis, striatis, pappo parvo duplo longioribus. 



Prairies north of Fort Belknap. May. 



3 — 6 inches high ; leaves and flowers numerous, the flowering stems not 

 naked or elongated, the whole plant covered with white hairs which are dilated 

 at the base, and not appressed. 



Sericocarpus (Galatella) Woodhousii, s. n. — Glabra, seu parum pubes- 

 cens ; foliis oblongo-linearis, mucronatis, subfasciculatis ; receptaculum angus- 

 tum, alveolatum ; alveolorum marginibus lacineato-dentatis ; corollae disci, 

 campanulato-lubulosae, limbo profunde quinque-dentato ; achenia dense stri- 

 goso-sericea, involucri squamis imbricatis, lineari-oblongis, disco brevioribus ; 

 floribus subcorymboiis numerosis. 



New Mexico. Dr. Woodhouse. 



Leaves somewhat fasciculated, varying in size from i an inch to 2 inches 

 long and 1 — 3 lines in width, not rigid ; stem about 2 teet high, with a few 

 branches near the summit. Flowers in August. 



Lepachys s e r r a t u s, s. nov. — Valde pubescens; foliis interrupte pinnati- 

 sectis ; segmentis ovatis aut lanceolatis, profunde serratis ; superne sessilibus ; 

 iaferne petiolatis et lyrato-sectis ; involucri squamis 1-serialis longe linearis, 

 hirsutis ; discus elongatus, cylindricus, involucro vel ligulae longior ; floribus 

 raris, longe pedunculaiis. 



Near Camp Colorado. June. 



Several erect root-stems, 2 — 3 feet high, with few branches; leaves 2 — 4 

 inches long, the three terminal segments large and ovate, with large serratures ; 

 radical petioles margined with a few small mucronate lobes. Whole plant 

 hirsutely pubescent. 



Margacola. Gen. nov. 

 Capitulum multiflorum homogamum ; ligulis nullis ; flosculis hermaphroditis 

 tubulosis, 5-dentatis luteis ; involucrum campauulatum; squamis subfequalibus, 

 2 — 3 serialis, linearis, abrupte acutis disco brevioribus; receptaculum conicum, 

 nudum, parvum ; styli rami breve, apice pubescenti ; antherse inclusae ; achenia 

 conformia ; lineari-oblonga, subquadrangulata, glabra vel parum pilosa pappo 

 minute setuloso, coronata ; 4 — 6 setulis minulissimis. 



Margacola p a r v u 1 a. — Annua, herbacea, glabra, humile 4 — 6 policar. valde 



1861.] 




458 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



ramofo foliis alternis, integris amplexicaulis ovatisi, obtusis ; floribus parvis, 

 capitibu'9 luteis. 



Southern Texas. May. 



Diffusely branching from the root; flowers on branches little elongated, on 

 which are a few small lanceolate or ovate bracts. 



Grows in a marly soil, hence the name from the Latin. 



LiNSKCOMiA. Gen. nov. Helianthid^. 



Capitulam multiflorum heterogamum; floris radii ligulalis neutris, 1-serialis 

 disci tubulosis hermaphroditis 5-dentatis ; involucri squamis 3 — 4 serialis, im- 

 bricatis adpiessis ; exteriores ovalibus subacutis, iateriores lanceolatis, acutis ; 

 receptaculum convexum subalveolatum ; paleis semiamplectentibus, oblongip, 

 apice ciliatis acutis ; acheniis glabris, obovatis, compressis, subquadrangulatis, 

 biaristatis ; arisiis subpaleaceis, caducis. 



Liiisecomia g 1 a u c a. — Glabra, glauca ; foliis caulinis oppositis ; lanceolati?, 

 loDge acurainaiis, integris, sessilibus; radicalibus, sessilibus, aut breviter peti- 

 olatis ; caulis erectis, 10 — 12 policar. parum ramosis lereiis. 



Near the ruins of the old Spanish Fort San Saba. Flowers last of June. 



Leaves Ij — 3 inches long; chaff of the disk nearly as long as the tube of 

 the corolla, which, with the achenia, is nearly encircled by a single palea ; 

 anthers small, ovate and erect; rays slightly 2-clefi ; flowers yellow. 



In honor of Dr. Gideon Linsecom, a Texan botanist, to whom the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is indebted for a fine collection of Texas 

 jilants. 



Halea r e p a n d a, s. nov. — Annua ; scabroso pubescenti ; foliis radicalibus 

 breviter petiolatis, ovatis repando-denticulatis, superioribus longe petiolatis 

 ovatisve trilobatis petiolis subalatis, alis 2 — 3-dentatis; tubo corollte glabro ; 

 involucri squamis lato-ovatis, acutis margine albo-pubescentibus, receptaculum 

 conicum ; palae lanceolatae acutye pappus paleaceus ; paleis ovatis subobtusis. 



Near Corpus Christi. May. 



Plant 1 — 2 feet high ; flowers H — 2 inches in diameter ; achenia subquad- 

 rangular, crowned with a short scaly pappus ; scales oval, distinct and obtuse; 

 petioles 1 — H inches long, and leaves of nearly the same length ; rays about 

 twice the length of the involucre ; flowers yellow. 



Zexmenia (Lasianthea) hispidula, s. nov — Strigoso-hispida ; foliis ovatis, 

 dentatis, petiolatis, stipulis ovatis vel lanceolatis, pedunculis axillaribus, solita- 

 riis vel ternis, nudis seu foliis summis capitulo longioribus ; involucri squamis 

 biserialis, subtequantibus, ovatis canescenti pilosis, acutis, ligulis aureis brevis- 

 simis, acheniis oblongo-obovatis, rugosis ; aristis divaricatis elongatis. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Plant with slender, decumbent stems, few leaves and smf.ll flowers, almost 

 concealed by leaves at the extremity of the branches ; rays scarcely longer than 

 the involucre; leaves all with petioles 4 — 8 lines long; whole plant sparingly 

 coated with white appressed hairs; palea of the disk prominent, linear, acute 

 and equal in length to the achenia ; leaves 1 — 1^ ioches long and ^ — 1 inch 

 wide, sharply serrate and subacute; flowers 3 — 4 lines in diameter; achenia 3 

 lines long. 



Verbesina T e x a n a, s. nov. — Herbacea, ramoso ; ramis alis foliaceis auctis; 

 foliis alternis, ovaiis, subcrenatis ; petiolatis, petiolis lato-alatis, pedunculis 

 terminalibus, muliifloris, nudis, vel parum alatis ; involucri squamis linearis, 

 obtusis, acheniis radii, discique biaristatis. 



Northern Texas. May. 



Stems 2 — 3 feet high, erect and with few branches; whole plant glandular 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



459 



pubescent; leaves obtuse or subacute, the margins entire or unequally crenate; 

 leaves 3 — 5 inches long; petioles 1 inch long and broadly winged. 



Actinella lanuginosa, s. nov. — Planta densissima villosa, caule simplo 

 aphyllo; foliis radicalibus numerosis, obovatis, sen lato-spathulatis, obtusis 

 vel subacutiii, basi cuneatis, sessilibus, aut breviter petiolatis, rari.^sime 3-loba- 

 tis, involucri squamis lanceolatis, acutis, biserialis, pappi squamellis ovatis, 

 longe aristulatis. 



Prairies, Burnet County. April. Common. 



4 — 6 inches high. Leaves about an inch in length and 4 — 8 lines broad ; 

 stem one-flowered. 



Heterotheca lati folia, s. nov. — Scabro-villoso ; caule erecto, ramoso ; 

 foliis caulinis oblongo-cordatis, amplexicaulisve sessilibus, mucronatis, margine 

 intejjris seu parce et grande dentatis; foliis radicalibus breviter petiolatis, 

 ovatis ; involucri squamis scaiiosis, linearibus, acutis. 



Llano County. June. 



1^ — 2 feet high ; branches erect, and leaves numerous, mostly clasping and 

 entire ; flowering branches little elongated and leafy, or nearly naked ; ex- 

 panded flowers an inch in diameter; rays many and bright yellow, twice the 

 length of the involucre; leaves 2 — 4 inches long and 1 — 2 wide, terminating 

 abruptly. 



Gaillardia 1 o b a t a, s. nov. — Caule ramoso, glanduloso-pubescente, foliis 

 lyrato-5 — 7-lobatis, segmentis ovatis vel lanceolatis, obtusis, vel acutis ; foliis 

 caulinis sessilibus, aut breviter petiolatis; radicalibus petiolatis; involucri 

 squamis discum superantibus, utrinque scabroso-pilosis, lanceolatis acumi- 

 aatis ; corollas hermaphroditae dentibus magnis 3-nervis, subacutis, fimbrillis 

 receptaculi crebris, acicularibus basi dilitatis ; pappo radii conformi. 



Southern Texas. May. 



Stems 8 — 12 inches high, branching from the root; rays numerous and 

 crowded, flowers li inches in diameter, dark red ; corolla of the disk with 

 broad fringed subulate teeth ; subulate fimbrillae longer than the achenia ; 

 leaves 1 — 2 inches long, the lobe at the extremity twice the length of the la- 

 teral segments ; floral stems naked above, petioles of radical leaves about ^ au 

 inch long. 



Gaillardia scabrosa, s. nov. — Ramisque foliis valde scabroso-pubescen- 

 tibus ; foliis longe lanceolatis, sessilibus, aut breviter petiolatis, acuminatis 

 integris ; involucri squamis discum excedentibus, lineari-lanceolatis, subu- 

 latis margine ciliatis, corollae hermaphroditae, dentibus lanceolatis, acutis ; 

 fimbrillis receptaculi plurimis acicularibus, basi dilatatis, pappo radii conformi. 



Western Texas. June. 



Stems 12 — IS inches long, and leafy to the summit terminated by flowers ; 

 leaves 1 — IJ inches long, and 3 — 6 lines wide ; corolla of the disk with glan- 

 dular pubescent teeth ; rays deeply 3-cleft, yellow with purple veins. 



Phileozera. Gen. nov. 



Capitulum multiflorum radiatum, heterogamum, involucri squamis biserialis, 

 imbricatis ; squamis ovatis, acutis disco brevioribus ; receptaculum parvum, 

 nudum conicum ; styli rami breve pubescente ; pappo duplo, ima setacea, 

 supra paleacea ; paliis 5 ovatis, aristatis ; acheniis sericeis, obovatis ; ligulis 

 uniserialis. 



Phileozera m u 1 1 i f 1 o r a. — Annua, herbacea, ramosissima ; foliis lineari- 

 bus, 3 — 6 laciniatis ; segmentis lineari-elongatis ; floribus plurimis, parvis, 

 luteis capitatis. 



Prairies north of Fort Belknap. May. 



Plant 4 — 6 inches high, with numerous erect flowering branches, which are 



1861.] 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



destitute of leaves near the flowers ; leaves about half a line wide, elongated, 

 and 3 — 6-parted, with opposite or alternate segments ; whole plant sparingly 

 pubescent; flowers 3 — 4 lines in diameter; the lower pappus of many white 

 hairs is at the base of, and about equal in length to the achenia ; palea nearly 

 as long as the achenia which they crown. The flowers have a resemblance 

 to those of Riddellia. Name from the Greek, signifying its love of arid places. 



Heleneum (Tetrodus) T e x a n u m, s. nov. — Annua, glabra ; caulibus erec- 

 tis, 3 — 4 pedali, ramosissimis ; ramis superioribus, alatis ; foliis caulinis lan- 

 ceolatis, integris, vel remote denticulatis, decurrentibus, capitulis parvis obo- 

 vato-globosis, ligulis cuneatis trilobis parvis, disco, multum brevioribus, pap- 

 pus paleaceus ; paleis ovatis aristatis ; involucri squamis linearis, acuminatis. 



North of Fort Mason. June. 



Radical leaves wanting in our specimens. Heads brownish yellow, 4 lines 

 in diameter ; rays yellow, scarcely 4 lines in length, 3-cleft, teeth acute ; in- 

 volucri longer than the rays ; flowers many, and terminated in branches which 

 are leafy to the summit ; achenia villous. 



Cirsium T e x a n u m, s. nov. — Caule erecto, ramoso, 3 — 4 pedalis ; foliis 

 ovatis, integris ; superiores amplexicaulis ; radicalibus sessilibus velbreviter 

 petiolatis ; subtus dense canescenti-tomentosis, superne glabris, margine re- 

 pando-dentatis, spinosis ; involucri subglobosi squamis imbricatis, intimis 

 lineari-lanceolatis, subulatis ; exterioribus ovatis, lanceolatisque cuspidatis ; 

 flosculis purpureis. 



Near Brady's Creek, north of Fort Mason. June. 



Stems divaricately branched ; flowers axillary or terminal ; leaves none, or 

 few, in the elongated flowering branches ; stems tomentose, upper leaves 1 — 2 

 inches long ; radical leaves 3 — 4 inches. 



CAMPAXCLACEiE. 



Specularia (Campanula) L i n s e c o m i a, s. n. — Glabra; caule decum- 

 bente, parce ramoso ; foliis sessilibus, lanceolatis apice attenuatis, acutis,' 

 bracteis longe linearibus ; floribus axillaribus 2 — 5-glomeratis ; calycis tubus 

 elongata 3 — 5-lobis ; segmentis linearis, acutis. 



On Brady's Creek, north of Fort Mason. June. 



Leaves ^alternate, 4 — 6 lines distant, in every axil of which flowers and 

 bracts abound ; capsules 6 — 8 lines long, 3-valved dehiscent on the sides ; 

 seeds smooth, elliptical. Whole plant smooth, excepting the margins of some 

 of the leaves, which are minutely ciliate with white hairs, scarcely percepti- 

 ble without the aid of a glass. Our specimens are in fruit only. 



Campanula Coloradoense, s. nov. — Glabriusculis ; caule erecto, sim- 

 plo, ffiultifloro ; foliis caulinis sessilibus, lanceolatis, margine integris aut 

 interrupte dentatis, minute ciliatis ; radicalibus petiolatis, subobtusis ; flori- 

 bus axillaribus vel terminalibus; simplici sen duplici ; bracteis linearibus, 

 acutis ; tubo calycis elongato linearis acutis ; corolla profunde 5-fida sub- 

 aequantibus ; capsula cylindracea, 3-valvis, lateraliter sitis dehiscens ; semina 

 ellipsoidea. 



On the Upper Colorado of Texas. June. 



Plant 1 — 2 feet high ; leaves few and alternate ; lower stem and leaves have 

 a few white, erect hairs ; style exserted ; stigmas 4 — 5 ; leaves 1 — 15 inches 

 long and about 4 lines wide. 



Ebicacea. 



Arbutus T exa n a, s. nov. — Arborea 20 — 25 pedali, glaberrima ; foliis ova- 

 tis, subacutis, parce serratis ; floribus capitatis, subracemosis calycibus albis, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



corolla duplo brevioribus, pubescentibusque et pedicellis ; calycis laciniis 

 ovatis acutis ; coroUis oblongo-ovatis glabins ; filameutis inclusis ad basi 

 lanuginosis corolla triplo brevioribus ; stylus longis cylindricus, bacca rotun- 

 da, rubra. 



Hills, Hays County. Flowers in March. 



Fruit ripe in November, of a deep scarlet or red color ; trunk and branches 

 very smooth, brownish-red, the outer bark peeling off like Platanas. Wood 

 very brittle ; trunk 8 — 12 inches in diameter ; leaves evergreen, 1 J — 2^ inches 

 long ; petioles 1 inch long. 



Comarostaphylus (Arctostaphylus) g 1 a u c a, s. nov. — Subarborea, ramis 

 teretibus, junioribus subpubescentibus ; foliis oblongo-ovatis, obtusis, acute, 

 et minute serratis, petiolatis ; subtus candido-pulverulentis, supra glaucis et 

 glabris; floribus capitatis, racemosis, crebisque bracteatis, brevissime pedi- 

 cellatis ; calycibus que bracteis pubescentibus ; bracteis lato-ovatis, obtusis 

 vel subacutis ; corollis albis, ovatis, calyce parum excedentibus ; calycis 

 1-aciniis ovatis, acutis ; fructus ? 



Western Texas. 



Small trees, 15 — 20 feet high and 3 — 4 inches in diameter; leaves 2 — 4 

 inches long and 1^ — 2 inches broad, obtuse at both ends ; petioles 1 — IJ 

 inches long. 



Sapotacea. 



Bumelia a r b o r e a, s. nov. — Inermis ; foliis obovatis, obtusis, ad basi 

 cuneatis, breviter petiolatis ; supra glabris, subtus glabris, vel parce pilosis, 

 pedicellis axillaribus, numerosis, hirsutis, petiolum fequantibus ; floribus mi- 

 nutis ; calycis hirsutissimis sepalis, ovato, acutis, corolla parum brevioribus; 

 coroUae S-fidae ; drupa nigra, ellipsoidea. 



Southern Texas. 



Tree 40 — 50 feet high and 1 — 2 feet in diameter ; leaves round, obtuse at 

 the apex, 1 — 2 inches long and nearly an inch in breadth at the widest part; 

 petioles 4 — 6 lines in length ; leaves deep green on both sides, smooth and 

 shining above, beneath a few white hairs on the mid rib and veins ; fruit ^ an 

 inch long, not healthy, and rarely tasted by any one the second time. It is 

 called " Gum-elastic." Its wood is hard, close-grained, takes a fine polish, 

 and is sometimes used for small articles of furniture. Flowers in May ; fruit 

 ripe in October. 



SCROPHULARIACEiE. 



Penstemon panciflorus, s. n. — Glanduloso-pubescens ; foliis oppositis 

 sessilibus, lineari-lanceolatis, margine integris, vel minute dentatis ; floribus 

 laxe paniculatis ; pedunculis inequalibus, erecto-patentibus ; calycis segmen- 

 tis, lineari-subulatis, hirsutissimis ; corollas tubo elongato, superne constricto ; 

 filamento sterili glabro, apice dilatato ; antheris glabris. 



Past oak woods south of Fort Belknap. May. 



Stems, several from the same root, about a foot high, sparingly branched 

 near the summit ; 3 — 6 pairs of leaves on a stem, which are about an inch 

 and a half long and 2 — 4 lines wide ; corolla tube 6 — 10 lines long, and mouth 

 constricted to scarce a line in width. 



Penstemon amplexicaule, s. n. — Glaucus, erectus ; foliis caulinis, lato- 

 ovatis, vel cordatis, integris, acutis, late amplexicaulibus ; radicalibus, ob- 

 longo-ovatis, longe petiolatis ; panicula elongata breve interrupte ; cymis 

 breviter pedunculatis, congestis ; calycis segmentis ovatis, vel lanceolatis, 

 acutis, margine submembranaceis ; coroUse tubo parvo, superne parum dila- 

 tato ; filamento sterili glabro ; antheris piloso-lanatis. 



About 60 miles N. E. of Camp Colorado. June. 



1861.] 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Stems mostly simple, 2 — 3 feet high ; flower white, tinged with purple, 3 — 4 

 on each side, opposite, on pedicels 2 — 4 lines long. Cymes on the panicle 

 6 — 12 lines distant; tube of corolla about 6 lines long, and mouth 2 — 3 lines wide. 



ACANTHACEA. 



Drejera p a r vi f 1 ora, s. n. — Glabriusculus ; ramis junioribus et calycibas 

 glanduloso-pubescentibus ; foliis oppositis, lanceolatis breviter petiolatis basi 

 obtusis ad apice attenuatis ; spicis terminalibus, nudis ; calyce profunde 

 5-fido ; segmentis longe subulatis, corollte tubo angusto calyce duplo longiorc : 

 floribus oppositis sessilibus breve interupte spicatis. 



Western Texas. June. 



Shrub 3 — 4 feet high, with slender branches ; petioles about a line long ; 

 flowers 6 — 8 lines long ; bracts lanceolate, shorter than the calyx. 



BORAGINACK^. 



Lithospermum prostratum, s. n. — Prostrata vel parce ascendenti ; caule 

 longe ramoso ; ramis paucis, scabroso-hirsutis ; foliis obovatis, basi attenu- 

 atis, breviter petiolatis utrinque hirsutis et albo-punctatis ; floribus axillari- 

 bus, solitaris vel duplicibus, breve pedicellatis ; corolla calyce piloso longiore ; 

 nuculis albis laevissimis. 



Falls of Fall River in Llano County. 



Stems slender, 12 — 18 inches long. Whole plant sparingly coated with erect 

 white hairs ; leaves 1 — 3 inches long and 4 — 12 lines wide. 



Echinospermura p i 1 o s u m, s. n. — Caule erecto, incane-piloso, ramoso ; foliis 

 alternatis oblongo-spathulatis, obtusis, sessilibus ; floribus solitariis, axillari- 

 bus, breviter pedicellatis, corolla tubo calyce breviore ; nuculis rugosis ; glo- 

 chidiatis aculeis uniserialibus. 



Hills Northern Texas. June. 



Stems numerous from the root, leafy to the summit and 6 — 10 inches high ; 

 whole plant coated with suberect white hairs ; leaves about an inch long and 

 3 — 4 lines wide. 



Bchinospermum s c ab r o s um, s. n.- Tota planta scabroso-piloso ; caule 

 erecto, ramoso, floribus numerosis axillaribus breviter pedicellatis ; foliis ses- 

 silibus breve lanceolatis superne linearibus ; lobis calycinis linearibus acutis, 

 corolla longioribus ; nuculis ovatis, aculeis glochidiatis uniserialibus. 



On the Upper Colorado of Texas. June. 



Stems numerous from the base, 4 — 6 inches high, thickly clothed with white 

 erect hairs; leaves alternate or opposite ; radical leaves 8 — 12 lines long; 

 stem leaves 4 — 6 lines in length and 1 — 4 lines wide ; stems leafy to the sum- 

 mit and full of fruit, leaves and flowers from near the base to the top. 



Eritrichium (Rutydocaryum) h i s p i d u m, s. n. — Caule ramosissimo dense 

 canescenti-piloso ; foliis linearibus, sessilibus, acutis ; floribus axillaribus et 

 terminalibus breviter pedicellatis ; corolla calycem hispidissiura parum super- 

 ante ; nuculis ovatis acutiusculis rugosis vel glabriusculis. 



On the Upper Colorado of Texas. June. 



Plant 3 — 6 inches high, with many erect branches, which are densely 

 covered from near the base to the top with leaves, fruit and flowers ; leaves 

 4 — 8 lines long and 1 — 2 lines wide. 



HYDROPHYLLACE.ffi. 



Nemophilla h ir s u t a, s. n. — Canescenti-hirsuta, caule decumbente, foliis 

 caulinibus sessilibus, alternis, radicalibus breve petiolatis, subpalmatis, pro- 

 funde 3 — 5 lobatis, segmentis ovatisve oblongis acutis, pedunculis axillari- 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



busque terminalibus, folio longioribus, appendicibus caljcinis lanceolatis, 

 acutis, lobo duplo brevioribus. 



Western Texas. May. 



Stems 4 — 8 inches long ; leaves about an inch in length and nearly of the 

 same width ; petioles of the radical leaves 2 — 4 lines long ; peduncles about 

 an inch long ; flowers large, pale blue. 



Nemophilla p i 1 o s a, s. n — Canescenti-pilosiusculis, foliis alternatis, cau- 

 linibus sessilibus, radicalibus breviter petiolatis et lyrato-pinnati-partitis, 

 segmentis 5 — 15 ovatis vel lanceolatis, 2 — 5 acute-dentatis, racemis terminali- 

 buslaxifloris, calycinissinubus appendicibus lanceolatis lobo triplo brevioribus, 

 corolla profunde 5-fida rotata, calyce ciliata duplo longiore. 



Austin. April. 



Stems assurgent, 4 — 6 inches high, branching from the base ; petioles of 

 the radical leaves 4 — 12 lines long, and the leaves IJ — 2^ inches in length ; 

 Ijeduncles 6 — 14 lines long; flowers purple. 



Phacelia (Cosmanthus) h i s p i d a, n. s. — Hispida, foliis dentato-lobatis, 

 sessilibus, segmentis lato-ovatis, obtusiusculis vel lanceolatisque acutis, 

 racemis elongatis, terminalibus, lobis calycinis linearibus, corolla breviori- 

 bus, staminibus coroUum subaquantibus. 



Austin. April. 



Stems ascending and branching, 6—8 inches high from the base ; sinuses 

 of the lobes extending scarcely half way to the midrib of the leaves ; leaves 

 I — 1 2- inches long; flowers blue. This plant resembles Phacelia P ur s h i i, 

 but is different in its non-fimbriate corolla, its leaves all being sessile, 

 with smaller and more obtuse lobes ; and the whole plant is much more 

 hispidly pilose. 



Description of a new ftUADEUMANOUS MAMMAL, of the genus MIDAS. 

 BY J. H. SLACK, M. D. 



Midas el e gan t nl u s. — M. capite, collo, Cauda, pedibusque nigris ; pilis 

 dorso uigris, apicibus canis ; abdomine rufescente ; macula verticale aureo rufes- 

 cente, labiis nasique apice albis. 



Hah. — Amazon. 



Head, throat, anterior limbs, tail and hands, deep, glossy black ; hairs of 

 back, sides, and posterior limbs black, throughout most of their length tipped 

 with white, without regular annulations ; belly, breast, and internal surface of 

 limbs bright rust color, separated by a well defined line from the black of back 

 and external surface of limbs. Upon the back of the head is a small patch of 

 hairs, of similar coloration to those of the back ; and upon the vertex a small 

 triaugular patch of golden yellow. The lips and tip of nose are white. 



This species is nearest allied to the M. my s tax Geojf., having, like that, 

 the bright rust colored belly, and black body and tail, but can readily be dis- 

 tinguished by the ashy tips of the hairs of the back and posterior limbs, and 

 the triangular golden spot upon the vertex ; the hairs of this spot are golden 

 throughout their entire length, in this respect resembling the M, chryso- 

 meles KuhL, &ii(\ M. pile at us Geoff, and Deville, from both of which, 

 however, it can readily be distinguished by the color of the belly. The typical 

 specimen was procured by Lieut. Herndon, during his exploration of the Ama- 

 zon river and its tributaries. Its precise locality unfortunately being unknown. 

 The specimen is the skin of an adult male, and is the property of the Smithso- 

 nian Institution, by the Secretaries of which it was kindly loaned me for ex- 

 amination. 



1861.] 




464: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Measurements. — Head and body 11 "5 in.; anterior limbs 6 in.; posterior limb 

 7 in.; tail to end of hairs 12*8 in.; tail to end of vertebra 11*5 in. 

 The following is a synopsis of the genus : — 



1. Species with long hairs upon the head. 



Pelage golden yellow, long and silkey, M. ro salia Geoff. 



Body black ; head, anterior arms and line beneath 



the tail golden yellow M. chrysomelas Kuhl. 



General color brown ; sides of head naked ; hands 



white, M. o e d i p u s Geoff". 



Black, back of neck maroon, M. geoffroii Puch. 



2. Species with short hairs on the back of the head. 



ct. Lips not white. 

 Head and anterior limbs white ; body and poste- 



rior feet brown ; tail and abdomen ferruginous, M. b i c o 1 o r Spix. 



iM. tamarin nobis. 

 General color black; dashed with reddish brown, < Cehits tamarin Link. 



l^M. Ursula Geoff. 

 M. lacepedii nobis. 

 Black ; hands golden yellow,* ^ Sim. lacepedii Fischer. 



M. rufimanus Geoff. 



0. Lips white. 



General color black ; beneath reddish, M. 1 a b i a t u s, Geoff. 



Back varied black and grey ; limbs and tail 



blackish ; entire top of head golden yellow, M. p i I e at u s, 7s. Geoff. 



iM. mystax, Spix. 

 M. nigricollis, " 

 M. riijicollis, " 

 1 31. nigrifrons Is. Geoff. 

 Pelage mostly black; thighs and base of tail ( M. devillii, Is. Geoff". 



bright maroon, ( M. weddelleri, Deville. 



Lips (not nose) white ; top of head yellow ; back 

 yellow and black ; thighs and base of tail 



reddish ; hands black, M. f 1 a v i f r o n s, Is. Geoff. 



Head black ; back black, dashed with white ; 

 nape of neck, external and internal surface 

 of limbs reddish ; tail red at base and top, 

 the intermediate portion black, M. illi geri, Puch. 



Back black, dashed with white, without regular 

 annulations ; head black, with a triangular 

 golden spot upon the vertex ; hands and 

 tail black ; belly and internal surface of 

 limbs bright brick red, M. elegantulus, Slack 



* This is the Midas rufimanus of Geoffrey St. Hilaire, Ann. du Mus., 1812, but 

 bad been described previously by G. Fischer, Bulletin tie la Societe de Moscou, p. 23, 

 1806. It is curious that Isidore Geoffrey St. Hilaire, though trediling to Fischer the 

 Galago demidoffii, (Catalogue des Primates, p. 81, 1853,) has utterly ignored the 

 existence of this species, though described in the same paper, upon the preceding page. 

 The following is Fischer's description, for the work containing which I am indebted to 

 Mr. Hansen, the Librarian of the Museum ol Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. ; 



S. Lacepedii, nigra, pedibus rufis, auriculis vellere brevi, labio superiore non 

 fleviso, 



Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 465 



Synopsis of the Recent Species of GASTROCH^NID^S:, a Family of Acephalous 



Mollusca. 



BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



Linnaeus included in the genera Serpula, Teredo and Pholas, the curious group 

 of shells which form the subject of this memoir; and it is not surprising that 

 he should have made such a distribution when we recollect, that until quite 

 recently the animals of these shells were unknown, whilst an obvious external 

 resemblance existed between the tubes of Gastrochsena, Rocellaria, etc., and 

 those of Serpula and Teredo, and the valves exhibited a close afiinity to those 

 of Pholas. The earlier conchologists, misled by these resemblances, in seve- 

 ral instances referred to different genera the shell and tube of one species. 

 Lamarck assigned to these shells their true position in the system. His family 

 TuBicoLA included the various species of Aspergillum, Clavagella, Fistulana and 

 Gastrochana, together with Teredo and Teredina, and excluded the Serpula. 

 TuBicoLA was placed in close connection with the family Pholadaria, to which 

 it is nearly allied not only by external characters, but also by anatomical 

 resemblances and circumstance of habitation. The Lamarckian arrangement 

 and his genera, were adhered to by the few writers who have taken up the 

 study of the family until within the past few years. 



It" Dr. John Edward Gray, in a paper published in the London Zool. Proc. for 

 1858, entitled, " On the Families Aspergillidce, Gastrochcenidce and Humphrey iada" 

 proposed the following classification : — 



Family L ASPEROILLIDM. 

 Animal living sunk in sand, or holes in rocks, or shells ; enclosed in a shelly 

 tube in which it resides, and emitting from the front of its mantle a number 

 of tentacles, which are enclosed in tubuli radiating from the edge or disk of 

 the base of the enclosing tube. 



Subfamily 1. PENICILLINA. 



Both the valves of the adult animal imbedded in and forming part of the 

 shelly tubular sheath. The valves of the young animals are early united into 

 one plate. 



Genera. Warnea, Aspergillum, Penicillus, Clepsydra, Arytene, Foegia. 



Subfamily 2. CLAVAGELLINA. 

 Only one valve of the adult animal imbedded in the shelly tubular sheath ; 

 the other free, and movable in the cavity of the tube. 

 Genera. Clavagella (fossil,) Bryopa, Dacosta. 



Family II. GASTROCEJENIBM. 

 Living sunk in sand or holes in rocks and shells ; enclosed in a shelly tube, 

 in which are contained the free, movable valves. The front of the mantle not 

 provided with any tentacles. The tube of the adult animal closed at the base, 

 and destitute of any slit or perforations ; its siphonal end not expanded. 



Subfamily 1. CH^NAINA. 

 The tube symmetrical, clavate, free. The animal living free, sunk in sand. 

 Genus Chcena. 



Subfamily 2. GASTR0CHJ5NAINA. 

 The tube irregular, attached. The animal living in holes in rocks, shells 

 and other marine bodies. 

 Genus Gastrochcena. 



Family III. EUMPHREYIAD^. 

 The animal at first free and covered with two shelly valves, which become 

 1861.] 31 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



united into a single plate, which expands on the sides and in front, forming a 

 bag-like cavity, attached by its outer surface to shells or rocks, and, as the 

 animal increases in size, it expands behind into a shelly tube with a circular 

 aperture. 



The front of the mantle is furnished with scattered tentacles, which are 

 emitted through tubular pores on the upper part of the front of the tube, and 

 round the circumference of the part by which it is attached. 



The shells are attached to the surface of shells or rocks, and not sunk into 

 their substance ; nor do the animals live sunk in the sand like Aspergillid^ 

 and Gastroch^nid^e. 



Genus Humphreyia, 



We have adopted several of the subfamilies and genera pi-oposed by Dr. 

 Gray, and have also used some of the genera as subgenera, but we do not 

 consider the differences among these shells to be sufiicient to warrant the 

 creation of three families ; nor are the genera so numerous as to require such 

 a division for their proper study. The families proposed by Dr. Gray are not 

 only discarded for the foregoing reasons, but also because their characters 

 are very unequal in value. The /rs<, comprising shells with both valves free, 

 and those with but one valve free, the other attached, presents stronger dif- 

 ferences within itself than those by which he has separated it from the second 

 family; while the third (Hu.mpiireyiad.e) is described as possessing a peculiar 

 mode of growth, the tube being an enlargement or prolongation of the shelly 

 valves. This may be true with regard to Humpreyiad^, but then it is also 

 true of the genus Brechites, the depressions round the valves evidently marking 

 the growth of the tube from them, as a nucleus. 



Mr. Lovell Reeve, in his " Monograph of Aspergillum," says, in relation to 

 Humphreyia : — 



"If the animal of this interesting form of Aspergillum could speak, its 

 remarks on Dr. Gray's ingenious description of its structure, habits and shell 

 would probably resemble those of our great landscape painter Turner, on the 

 criticisms of his pictures by Ruskin, — ' Ah ! he sees a great deal more in them 

 than I can, or ever intended should be seen.' 



" The peculiarities of Aspergillum (Rumphreyia) Strangei are, that it is an 

 adherent species ; and, secondly, that it forms its sheath in a square. Like 

 the shell of all other adherent species of a genus, compared with those that 

 live free, the shell of A. Strangei has a very distorted growth, and the part 

 of the attachment being the most delicate part of the shell is the part most 

 distorted. One of the only two specimens known has, on ceasing its free 

 habit, commenced to attach itself within the hinge portion of a muscle ; the 

 other has been attached to stone, in a manner obviously even less commodious 

 to the symmetry of its growth ; and many of the points seized by Dr. Gray as 

 points of generic character are contortions arising out of these peculiar cir- 

 cumstances of habitation. The disk is smashed in as it were, and the frill is 

 pushed out at the edge of the place of attachment, and both are an irregular 

 heap of contortion." 



The three groups or subfamilies into which we have divided the recent 

 Gastroch.iinidvB, following the arrangement given by H. and A. Adams, form 

 very natural divisions of equal value ; and the first three genera, also, are 

 founded on constant and very distinct characters ; but the division of the old 

 genus Aspergillum must be regarded as a purely artificial arrangement of a 

 large number of species into groups, in order to facilitate their study, which, 

 in a genus so subject to distortion and abnormal mode of growth, had become 

 very perplexing. These genera will probably undergo much modification 

 when we have a better knowledge of their animals, which at present are 

 almost unknown to us. 



Naturalists are not all agreed as to the application of Guettard's name 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



Brechites to Asperi/illuni. The description, it must be owned, is entirely inade- 

 quate : still, we have but little doubt that it was intended for this shell. 



It is the aim of this paper to enumerate and define the various genera and 

 species of Gastroch.^nid^, giving their synonymy in full, and also their dis- 

 tinctive characters. In the progress of the work, difficulties have been en- 

 countered that were scarcely imagined at the outset. The older writers have 

 given us generally utterly inadequate descriptions, and have also in some cases 

 confounded two or more species under one name and description, — e. g. in 

 Gastrochcena cuneiformis and Aspergillum Javanum. 



Then, again, many of the later species are founded on single or few speci- 

 mens, and characterized principally by variations of surface and ornamenta- 

 tion, which may be found to be permanent when a larger number of specimens 

 become known to us, but are most probably the result of accident, in a family 

 acknowledged to be peculiarly subject to distortion from external causes. 

 That a large number of these species could not be retained on present data, 

 early became apparent ; but the question with what forms they were to be 

 united has sometimes proved a perplexing one. Where we have merged two 

 or more species into one, our reasons are always stated ; but they must be 

 understood as mere opinions which future discoveries may very seriously 

 modify. 



Whilst the course we have thought proper to pursue may have resulted in 

 the suppression of some good species, it offers us, in those which have been 

 adopted as valid, objects distinguished from each other by well founded and 

 permanent characters. Unusual care has been taken with the synonymy of 

 the older species, the descriptions having been patiently studied out and com- 

 pared, and it is probable that the most of them have been assigned to their 

 true position; but for reasons already alluded to, there can be no certainty 

 regarding this, and perhaps this paper should rather be regarded as a contri- 

 bution of facts and authorities as materiel for the future monographist, than 

 as an addition to positive knowledge. 



It will be found by reference to the succeeding pages that we have placed 

 in the synonymy of a number of genera and species many well known and 

 generally received names. To explain our motive for so doing, we deem it 

 important to enunciate the following general principle : 



We hold that the oldest generic name, accompanied by a sufficiently accu- 

 rate description for the purposes of identification, should always have priority ; 

 and the same rule applies to specific names: but in order to save naturalists 

 from the labor of consulting the writings of the ancients and the danger of 

 adopting a false application of their generally obscure descriptions, no prc- 

 Linnaean names should be used. 



The name of the naturalist who first describes a species of shell should for- 

 ever remain attached to the specific name, of which, for all the purposes of 

 memorizing or identification, it is properly a part ; and should our better 

 acquaintance with its structure and relations to other mollusca authorize its 

 removal to another genus from that in which it was originally placed by its 

 discoverer, then the latter's name should be followed by the word " Species," 

 to indicate the fact. 



Reference to Authors quoted. 



Adams, Arthur Description of Aspergillum Strangei, Proc. Zool. Soc. 



Lond. p. 91, 1852. 

 Adams, H. and A Genera of Recent Mollusca, ii. p. 334 (1856,) and 



p. 649 (1858.) 



Anton Verzeich der Conchylien, 1839. 



Argenville Conchyliologie, 1st edit. 1742; 2d edit. 1757. 



Beau Catalogue des Coquilles du Guadaloupe. 1858. 



Bellevue, Fleuriaude Journal de Physique, liv. 1802. 



Blainville Manuel de Malacologie, 1825. 



1861.] 




468 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Bolten Museum Boltenianum, edit. 2, 1819. 



Bonanni Recreatio Mentis et Oculi, 1684. 



Born Testacea Musei Csesarei Vindobonensis, 1780, 



Bosc Histoire Naturelle des Coquilles, ii. 1824. 



Bouchard-Chantreaux Moll. Boulounais, 1829. 



Broderip, W. J On Clavagella, Zool. Proc. London, p. 115, 1834; 



also in Zool. Trans, i. p. 261, 1835. 



Brooke, Samuel Introduction to the Study of Conchology, 1815. 



Brown, Capt. Thos Illustrations of the Recent Conchology of Great 



Britain, &c., 1844. 



Braguiere Dictionnaire des Vers. Encycl. Methodique, 1789. 



Burrow Elements of Conchology, 2d. edit. 1825. 



Cailliaud, F Notice sur le genre Clavagelle, Guerin's Mag. Zool. 



1842. 

 Notice sur le genre Gastrochene, Guerin's Mag. 



Zool. 1843. 

 Monographic du genre Clavagella, in Chenu's II- 

 lust. Conchyliogiques. 



Carpenter, P. P Catalogue of Reigen Coll. Mazatlan Shells, British 



Museum, 1857. 

 Report on West Coast Mollusca, Brit. Assoc, for Ad- 

 vancement of Science, 1857. 



Catlow, Agues The Conchologist's Nomenclator, 1845. 



Chemnitz Conchylien Cabinet, vol. x. 1788. 



Chenu, J. C Monographie du genre Aspergillum, lUust. Conch. 



Collard de Cherres Cat. Test. Mar. du Dep't du Finisterre, 1830. 



Crouch Introduction to Lamarck's Conchology, 1827. 



Cuvier Regne Anim. edit, primo, ii. 1817. 



" " Audouin's edit. Mollusques. 



DaCosta British Conchology, 1778. 



Delia Chiaje Anim. Senza Vertebr. 



Deshayes Mollusques, in Expl. Scientifique de I'Algerie. (Con- 

 tains full and beautifully illustrated anatomical 

 descriptions of the Animals of Rocellaria and 

 Bryopa. 

 Traite Elementaire i. pt. 2, 1843— '50. 

 Description of New Shells from the Collection of 



Hugh Cuming, Zool. Proc. Lond. 1854. 

 Dictionnaire des Vers. Encyc. Meth. ii. 1830. 



Dillwyn, L. W ...Descriptive Catalogue, i. 1817. 



Donovan Natural History of British Shells, iii. 1801. 



D'Orbigny Mollusques, in Sagra's Hist, de I'Isle de Cuba. 



Favanne de Montcerville...Conchyliologie, 1780. 



Ferussac Tabl. Systematique, 1822. 



Fleming Edinburg Encyclopedia, ii. 



History of British Animals, 1828. 



Forbes Rep. on -^gean Moll. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1843, 



Forbes and Hanley History of British Mollusca, i. 1853. 



Gerville Catalogue des Coquilles de la Manche, 1825. 



Ginanni Op. post. 1755 — '57. 



Gmelin .Syst. Naturae, i. 1790, 



Gould, A. A Descr. Shells N. Pacific Expl. Exped., Boston N. H. 



Soc. Proc. 1861. 



Gray, J. E, Genera of Shells, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1847. 



Annals of Philosophy, ii. 1825. 

 Figures of Molluscous Animals, v. 1857. 

 On the Development of the Shell and Tube of Asper- 

 gillum, Ann. and Mag. N. H. 3d ser. i, p. 432, 1858. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



Gray, J. E On the Structure of Humphrejia, Ann. and Mag. 



Nat. Hist. 3d ser. ii. p. 16, 1858. 

 On the Families of Aspergillidae, Gastrochsenidse 

 and Humphreyiadae, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 

 part xxvi. p. 307, 1858. 



Gualtieri Index Test, 1742. 



Guettard Mem. de I'Academie Paris, ii. 1774. 



Hanley, S Descriptive Catalogue of Recent Bivalve Shells, 1842. 



Jay, J. C Catalogue of Shells, 4th edit. 1850. 



Klein Tentamen Ostracologicae, 1753. 



Knorr Vergniigen der Augen, etc., 1773. 



Lamarck Animaux sans Vertebres, v. 1818. 



" " " vi. 1835, (Deshayes' edit.) 



Leach, W. E Mollusca of Great Britain, 1852. 



Linnaeus Systema Naturae. 



Lister Historise Conchyliorum, 1685. 



Lukis, F. C ObservationsontheMoUuscous Animals of the genus 



Gastrochasna, &c., Loudon's Magazine of Natural 

 History, vi. p. 401, 1833. 



Martini Conchylien Cabinet, i. 1769. 



Maton and Rackett Linn. Trans. London, viii. 1807. 



Mawe Linnaean System of Conchology, 1823. 



Megerle Berl. Mag. 1811. 



Menke Synopsis Methodica Molluscorum. 



Montagu Testacea Britannica, 1803. 



Morch Catalogue, 1853. 



Muller, Th Synopsis Test. Viv. 1836. 



Oken Lehrbuch, 1815. 



Olivi Zoologia Adriatica, 1792. 



Owen, R On Anatomy of Clavagella, Zool. Trans. Loud. 1S35. 



Pennant British Zoology, iv. 1777. 



Perry Conchology, 1811. 



Philippi Enumeratio Molluscorum Siciliae, i. 1836; ii. 1844. 



Wiegmann's Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, i. 1840. 



Poli Testacea utriusque Siciliae, 1791. 



Potiez et Michaud Gallerie des Mollusques, ii. 1844. 



Pultney Dorsetshire Catalogue, 1799. 



Rang Manuel des Mollusques, 1829. 



Reeve, Lovell.. ■ Conchologica Systematica, 1843. 



Monograph of Aspergillum, Conch. Iconica, 1860. 



Reichenbach. Conchylien, 1842. 



Requier Catalogue des Coquilles du Corse, 1848. 



Retzius Nov. Testaceorum Genera, 1788. 



Rumphius Amboinsche Rariteitkamer, 1705. 



Rlippell Reise, Nord Afric. 



Savigny Mollusques, in Description de I'Egypte, 1826. 



Scacchi MSS. quoted by Philippi. 



Schreibers Versuch nach Conchylien, 1793. 



Schroeter Einleitung in die Conchylien Kentniss, ii. 1784. 



Schumacher Essai d'un Noveau Systeme, 1817. 



Shaw Naturalist's Miscellany, vi. 



Sowerby Genera of Recent and Fossil Shells, 1820— '24. 



Conchological Manual, edit. 2, 1842. 



In Zool. Proc. Lond. 1834. 



Illustrations of British Conchology; 1859. 



Spengler Nov. Act. Sc. Soc. Hafu. ii. 1780. 



Thorpe, Charles British Marine Conchology, 1844. 



Turton Conchylia dithyra Insularum Brit. 1822. 



18tJl.] 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Wood, Wm General Conchology, ed. 1, 1815. 



Index Testaceologicus, edit. 1, 1818 ; edit. 2, 1828. 



Woodarch Introduction, 1831. 



Woodward, S. P Manual of Mollusca, part ii. 1854. 



Wjatt, Thos Conchology, 1838. 



Classification. 



CONCHIFERA. 



PHOLADACEA. 



(Family I. PHOLADID^.) 



Family II. GASTROCHJENID^. 



Shell. — Valves thin, gaping, edentulous, or teeth rudimentary, ligament 

 external, adductor impressions two, pallial line sinuated ; contained within a 

 shelly tuhe, both valves free, or one or both valves cemented to its walls. 



Animal. — Symmetrical, elongated, anteriorly truncated ; with two long con- 

 tractile siphons posteriorly, united nearly to their extremities, which are 

 fringed with cirrated orifices. Margins of the mantle anteriorly thickened and 

 united, with a small pedal opening ; foot cylindrical, small ; gills, a pair on 

 either side, prolonged into the branchial siphon. 



Frequently gregarious ; burrowing in wood, stone, sand, or mud at low 

 water mark, and lining their burrows with a calcareous tube; the shape of 

 which, together with the more or less cohesion of the valves to its sides, 

 affords the generic characters. 



Subfamily 1. GASTROCHiENINiE, Tryon, (not Gray.*) 1861. 



Shell with both valves free from the tube. 



a. Inequivalve, edentulous ; tube straight, striated transversely, and fur- 

 nished, when complete, with a perforated septum behind the valves. 



1. Genus Gastkocha:na, Spongier. 1780. 

 Gastrochsena, (including Rocellaria.) 



Spengler, Nov. Act. Soc. Sc. Havn. ii. 1780. 

 Blainville, Malacologie, p. 574, 1825. 

 Rang, Tabl. Meth. p. 342, 1829. 

 Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 26, 1843— '50. 

 Gastrochsena, (as at present restricted.) 

 Morch, Catalogue, 1853. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 334, 1856. 

 Chsena, Retzius, Nov. Test. Gen. p. 19, 1788, (including Rocellaria.) 



Schumacher, Essai d'un Nov. Syst. p. 94, 1817, (including Rocellaria.) 

 Gray, Zool. Proc. London, p. 189, 1847. 

 " " " •' p. 315, 1858. 



Deshayes, Zool. Proc. London, p. 330, 1854. 



Woodward, Manual, p. 326, 1854, (as a subgenus of Gastrochsena, 

 Rocellaria.) 

 Fistulana, Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. Vers. 1789. 



Cuvier, Regno Anim. Ed. primo, ii. p. 494, 1817. 

 Lamarck, Anim. Sans. Vert. v. p. 432, 1818. 



" (Deshayes' edit.) Anim. Sans. Vert. vi. p. 25, 1835. 



* Gray's subfamily GASTROCHiENAiNA is made to include only the species of iZoceWan'ff, 

 (by him wrongly named GastrochcBna,) while the genus Gastrochana he has placed, under 

 the name of Chwna, in another subfamily Ch-T,nai\a. I include the two genera in one 

 subfamily. I also include a third genus, recently proposed by Dr. Gould. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Fistulana, Ferussac, Tabl. Syst. p. 45, 1822. 



Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coquilles, ii. p. 205, 1824. 



Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. ii. p. 139, 1830. 



Wyatt, Conch, p. 24, 1838. 



Hanley, Descriptive Catalogue, p. 3, 1842. 



Keeve, Conch. Syst. 1843. 



Catlow and Reeve, Conch. Nomene. p. 2, 1845. 



Jay. Catalogue, 4th edit. p. 8, 1850. 

 Teredo, partim. 



Linnaeus, Gmelin, Dillwyn. 

 Description. — Valves irregular, unequal, widely gaping, hinge edentulous, 

 ligament narrow ; pallial sinus deep, posterior muscular impression nearly 

 central, with a pedal scar in front. Tube straight, cylindrical, striated trans- 

 versely, tapering upwards, closed at the lower end, with a perforated septum 

 behind the valves. 



A tropical genus, burrowing in sand or mud, at low water mark ; with the 

 upper part of the tube projecting but little above the surface. 



b. Equivalve, edentulous, but the hinge generally with a small spatulate 

 lamina. Tube irregular. 



2. Genus Rocellakia, Fleuriau de Bellevue. 1802. 

 Rupellaria, Fleuriau de Bellevue, Journ. de Physique, liv. 1802. 

 Roxellaria, Agassiz, Nomenclator Zoologicus. 

 Rocellaria, Morch, Catalogue, 1853. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 335, 1856. 

 Gastrochsena, Cuvier, Regne Anim. Ed. primo, ii. p. 490, 1817. 



Lamarck, Anim. Sans. Vert. v. p. 446, 1818. 



" (Desh. edit.) Anim. Sans. Vert. vi. p. 48, 1835. 



Ferussac, Tabl. Syst. p. 45, 1822. 



Turton, Conch. Dithyra Brit. p. 17, 1822. 



Crouch, Introd. Lam. 1827. 



Fleming, Brit. Anim. 1828. 



Rang, Tabl. Meth. p. 342, 1829. 



Bouchard-Chantreaux, Moll. Boulonnais, p. 8, 1829. 



Delia Chiaje, Anim. Senza Vert. 



Collard de Cherres, Cat. Test. Mar. p. 9, 1830. 



Lukis, Loudon's Mag. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 401, 1833. 



Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 21, 1834; Conch. Man. edit. 2, 1842. 



Th. Mtiller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 235, 1836. 



Anton, Verzeich der Conch, p. 1, 1839. 



Hanley, Descriptive Catalogue, p. 10, 1842. 



Reeve, Couch. Syst. 1843. 



Potiez et Michaud, Gallerie des Moll. ii. p. 267, 1844. 



Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 33, 1844. 



Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. ii. p. 3, 18-14. 



Catlow, Conch. Nomene. p. 2, 1845. 



Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 189, 1847. 

 " " " p. 316, 1858. 



D'Orbigny, Mollusks, Sagra's Cuba. 



Requier, Cat. des Coq. de la Corse, p. 13, 1848. 



Jay, Catalogue, 4th edit. p. 8, 1850. 



Deshayes, Mollusques, Expl. Sci. de I'Algerie, p. 17. 

 " Proc. Zool. Soc. London, p. 326, 1854. 



Forbes and Hanlev, Hist. Brit. Moll. i. p. 130, 1853. 



Woodward, Manual, pt. 2, p. 325, 1854. 



Carpenter, Mazatlan Shells, Brit. Mus. Cat. p. 14, 1857. 



Beau, Cat. des Coq. Guadaloupe, 1858. 



1861.] 




472 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Gastrochseua, (including both Gastrochfena and Rocellaria.) 

 Spengler, Nov. Act. Sc. Soc. Havn. ii. 1780. 

 Blainville, Malacol. i. p. 574, 1825. 

 Deshayes, Traite Elem. 1. pt. 2, p. 26, 184^— '50. 

 Chffina, (partim,) Retzius, Nov. Test. Gen. p. 19, 1788. 



Gray, Figs. Moll. Anlm. v. 1857. 

 Mya, (partim,) Pennant, Brit. Zool. iv. 1777. 



Donovan, Brit. Shells, iii. 1801. 

 Montagu, Test. Brit. i. 1803. 

 Maton & Rackett, Linn. Trans, viii. 1807. 

 Wood, Gen. Conch, edit. 1, 1815. 



" Index Test, edit. 1, 1818 ; edit. 2, 1828. 

 De Gerville. Cat. des Coq. de la Manche, 1825. 

 Chama, DaCosta, Brit. Conch. 1778. 

 Pholas, (partim,) Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. x. 1788. 

 Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i. 1790. 

 Poli, Test. utr. Sidl. i. 1791. 

 Olivi, Adriatica, 1792. 



Schreibers, Versuch nach Conchylien, ii. 1793. 

 Pultney, Dorsetshire Catalogue, 1799. 

 Dillwyn, Descriptive Catalogue, i. 1817. 

 Wood, Gen. Conch, ed. 1, 1815. 



" Index Test, edit. 1. 1818 ; edit. 2, 1828. 

 Mytilus, (partim,) Dillwyn, Descriptive Catalogue, i. 1817. 

 Fistulana, (partim,) Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 205, 1824. 



Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. "Vers. ii. p. 139, 1830. 

 Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 2, 1836. 

 Description, — Shell regular, equivalve ; valves ovate or cuneiform, widely 

 gaping anteriorly, very inequilateral ; umbones anterior, ligament long and 

 narrow. Pallial line lightly impressed, sinuated, uniting the muscular im- 

 pressions. 



Tube claviform or irregular, often incomplete, perforating shells and lime- 

 stone, to which its walls are sometimes adherent. 



Subgenus Spengleria, Tryon. 1861. 



I propose to separate from Rocellaria those species which are elongate- 

 cuneiform, truncated at the posterior end of the shell, and having a triangular 

 space, radiating from the beaks posteriorly to the margin, elevated slightly above 

 the general surface of the shell, and ornamented with transverse lamellse. 



3. Genus Cucurbitpla, Gould. 1861. 



Cucurbitula, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. viii. p. 22, March, 1861. 



Fistulana, ^ 



Gastrochfena, V Partim. of authors. 



Chsena, &c. j 



"' Description.— SheW regular, elongate, equivalve, gaping the whole length, 

 anteriorly enveloped by the mantle of the animal. 



Tube very short, ovate, or gourd-shaped, comjDOsed of successive calcareous 

 layers or cups, involving bits of shell or sand. Attached by one side to 

 shells, &c. 



I quite agree with Dr. Gould in the propriety of erecting a new genus for the 

 well known Gastrochfena lagenula. The characters given above prove it to 

 be quite distinct from Gastrochse-na or Rocellaria. 



Subfamily 2. BRYOPIN^, Tryon. 1861. 

 Shell with the right valve only free, the left being imbedded in the tube. 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47o 



4. Genus Bryopa, Gray. 1840. 

 Bryopa, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus. 1840. 



" Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 314, 1858. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Clavagella,* Lamarck, Anim. Sans. "Vert. v. p. 430, 1818. 



" (Desh. edit.) Anim. Sans. Vert. vi. p. 22, 1835. 



Ferussac, Tabl. Syst. p. 45, 1822. 

 Delia Chiaje, Anim. Senza Vert. 

 Sowerby, Genera. 

 Blainviile, Malacol. p. 575, 1825. 

 Crouch, Introd. Lam. p. 5, 1827. 

 Rang, Man. Moll. p. 338, 1829. 

 Broderip, Zool. Proc. London, p. 115, 1834. 



" Zool. Trans. London, i. p. 261, 1835. 



Owen, " " " i. p. 269, 1835. (Anatomy.) 



Cuvier, Regne Anim. (Audouin's edit.) 1836. 

 Th. Miiller, Syn. Test. Viv. 1836. 

 Philippi, Weigmann's Archiv. fiir Naturg. i. 1840. 



Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 1, 1836 ; ii. p. 1, 1844. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. 1843. 

 Hanley, Descriptive Catalogue, p. 2, 1842. 

 Cailliaud, Guerin's Mag. Zool. 1842. 



" Chenu's Illustrations Conch. 



Forbes, Report on .^gean Invert., Brit. Assoc, p. 142, 1843. 

 Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 16, 1843— '50. 



" Expl. Sci. de I'Algerie, MoUusques, p. 1. 



Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Jay, Catalogue, 4th edit. p. 3, 1850. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 337, 1854. 

 Gray, Figs, of Moll. Anim. v. 1857. 

 Teredo, (partim,) Brocchi. 



Description. — Valves flat, irregular, unequal, the right free, the left always 

 imbedded when adult. Pallial sinus deep. Anterior muscular impression 

 small, posterior one large. 



Tube elongated, cylindrical, open at the posterior end, and furnished with 

 siphonal fringes ; the anterior or lower end compressed, clavate, simple, with 

 a minute central fissure. 



Subgenus Dacosta, Gray. 1858. 

 Dacosta, Gray, Zool. Proc. London, p. 315, 1858. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Posterior or upper end of the tube destitute of siphonal fringes. 



Subfamily 3. CLAVAGELLINiE, Gray. 1858. 



Distinguished from Bryopinse by the presence of radiated tubuli on the lower 

 end of the tube, thus forming a connecting link between Bryopinae and Peni- 

 cillinae. 



(Contains the fossil genus Clavagella.) 



Subfamily 4. PENICILLIN-^E, Gray. 1858. 

 Shell with both valves imbedded in the walls of the tube, with their urri- 

 bones visible externally. Base of the tube ornamented with radiated tubuli, 

 containing tentacular processes originating in the animal's mantle. 



* The genus Clavagella, as characterized by Lamarck, includes those species (only 

 known in a fossil state) in which the lower end of the tube is surrounded by hollow 

 spinous processes. Lamarck included the recent species in his genus, under the impres- 

 sion, probably, that their tubes were incomplete. 



1861.] 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



5. Genus Brechites, Guettard. 1774. 

 Brechites, Guettard, Mem. de 1' Academic Paris, ii. p. 18, 1774. 

 Morch, Catalogue, 1853. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 338, 1856. 

 " " " ii. p. 649, 1858. 



Phallus, (partim,) Lister, Historise Conchyliorum, 1685 — '92. 

 Rumphius, Amboinsche Rareit. 1705. 

 Gualtieri, Test, 1742, 

 TubuluSj (partim,) Bonanni, Recreatio Oculi, &c., 1684. 

 Klein, Tab. Mar. Gen. 1734. 

 Martini, Conch, i. 1769. 

 Venus, (partim,) Rumphius, Amboinsche Rareit, 1705. 

 Soleu, (partim,) Klein, Ostracologicse, p. 163, 1753. 

 Arytaena, (partim,) D'Argenville, Conchyliologie, 2d ed. 1757. 

 Favanne, Conch. 1780. 

 Oken, Lehrbuch, p. 379, 1815. 

 Penicillus, (partim,) Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. Vers. p. 126, 1789. 

 Lamarck, 1801. 



Gray, Genera, Zool. Proc. p. 188, 1847. 

 Clepsydra, (partim,) Meuschen. 



Schumacher, Essai d'un Nov. Syst. pp. 79 and 261, 1817. 

 Serpula, (partim,) Linnaeus. 



Schroeter, Einleit. Conch, ii. 1784. 

 Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i. 1790. 

 Born. 



Schreibers, Versuch nacli Conchyl. ii. 1793. 

 Dillwyn, Descriptive Catalogue, 1817. 

 Wood, Index Test. edit. 1, 1818 ; edit. 2, 1828. 

 Knorr, Vergnlig. iv. 1772. 

 Martini, Conch. Cabinet, i. 1769. 

 Shaw, Nat. Misc. vi. 

 Brooke's Conchology, 1815. 

 Mawe, Conch. 1823. 

 Woodarch, Introd. 1831. 

 Verpa, Bolten, Mus. Bolt. edit. 2, 1819. 

 Aquaria, Perry, Conch. 1811. 

 Adspergillum, Meuke, Syn. Meth. Moll. 1830. 

 Arrosoir, Favanne, 1780. 



D'Argenville, 1742. 



Bruguiere, Encyc. Meth. p. 126, 1789. 

 Aspergillum, (partim,) Bruguiere, 1789. 



Lamarck, Anim. Sans Vert. v. p. 428, 1818. 



" (Desh. ed.) Anim. Sans. Vert. vi. p. 19, 1835. 



Ferussac, Tabl. Syst. p. 45, 1822. 

 Blainville, Malacologie, p. 576, 1825. 

 Sowerby, Genera. 



Crouch, Introd. Lamarck, p. 5, 1827. 

 Chenu, lUust. Conch. Aspergillum. 

 Rang, Hist. Nat. des Moll. p. 337, 1829. 

 Wyatt, Conch, p. 23, 1838. 

 Cuvier, Regne Anim. (Audouin's edit. ) 

 Anton, Verzeich der Conchyl. p. 122, 1839. 

 Reichenbach, Conchylien, 1842. 

 Hanley, Descriptive Catalogue, p. 1, 1842. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. 1843. 



" Conchologia Iconica, Monog. Aspergillum, 1860. 

 Deshayes, Traite Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 8, 1843— '50. 

 Potiez et Micbaud, Gallerie des Moll. ii. p. 273, 1844. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Aspergillum, (partim,) Savigny, Expl. Egypt. Moll. 



Guerin, Iconog. du Regne Anim. 



Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 2, 1836 ; ii. p. 2, 1844. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomeno. p. 1, 1845. 

 Riippell, Reise Nord Afric. 

 Jay, Catalogue, p. 8, 4th ed. 1850. 

 Woodward, Manual, pt. 2, p. 327, 1854. 

 Gray, Figs. Moll. Animals, v. 1857. 

 " Zool. Proc. p. 311, 1858. 



Description. — Shell small, oval, equivalve, equilateral, imbedded in the wall 

 of the tube, and visible externally. 



Tube elongated, attenuated and open above, swelling, and closed below by 

 a convex diaphragm, with numerous margined perforations and a narrow 

 central fissure ; the circumference ornamented with one or more fringes of 

 tubuli. The upper or siphonal end of the tube plain. 



Surface of the tube wavy, depressed around the small pair of open valves. 



Inhabiting tropical countries, and living buried in sand or mud at low water 

 mark. 



Subgenus Waenea, Gray. 1858. 



Warnea, Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 309, 1858. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 The siphonal end of the tube fringed with from one to several rows of ruffles. 



6. Genus Penicillus, Gray, 1858, (not Bruguiere.) 

 Penicillus, Gray, Zool. Proc. 312, 1858. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Aspergillum (partim) of authors. 



Description. — The valves not surrounded by wavy depressions on the surface 

 of the tube. Disk surrounded by a single fringe of tubuli. 



Subgenus Clepsydra, Gray, 1858, (not Meuschen or Schumacher.) 

 Oifepsydra, Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 312, 1858. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Fringe of the disk consisting of two or three series of tubes. 



7. Genus Fcegia, Gray. 1840. 

 Foegia, Gray, Syn. Brit. Mus. 1840. 



" Zool. Proc. p. 313, 1858. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Aspergillum (partim) of authors. 



Description. — Valves not surrounded by wavy depressions ; covered more or 

 less by a sunken tubercle in front. Disk of the tube fringed. 



Subgenus Aeytene, Gray, 1858, (not Oken or Megerle.) 

 Arytene, Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 313, 1858. 



H. & A. Adams, Genera, ii. 650, 1858. 

 Disk of the tube not fringed. 



8. Genus Humphkeyia, Gray. 1858. 

 Humphreyia, Gray, Zool. Proc. London, p. 316, 1858, and Ann. and Mag. N. H. 

 3d ser. ii. p. 16, 1858. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 650, 1858. 

 Brechites, (Foegia,) H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Aspergillum, A. Adams, Zool. Soc. Proc. p. 91, 1852. 



Reeve, Monog. Asp. Conch. Iconica, 1860. 



1861.] 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Description. — The tube attached by its base to shells or stone, and much 

 distorted in growth. 



But two specimens are known, of the only species of this genus, and they 

 are entirely too much distorted in appearance to furnish reliable characters. 

 They exhibit, however, a close relationship to Brechites, etc., from which they 

 may be distinguished by their adherence to foreign bodies. This character is 

 sufScient to justify the separation made by Dr. Gray, under the name of Hum- 

 phreyia; and, until we are better acquainted with these shells, it is as well to 

 allow the genus to rest on it alone. Dr. Gray has attempted more, and in- 

 curred thereby the criticism in Reeve's Monograph, which we have already 

 quoted. 



JSpecies of Gastroclisenidse,.* 



Gastkoch^na. 



1. G. agglutinans, Deshayes, sp. 



Chsena agglutinans, Deshayes, Proc Zool. Soc. Lond. p. 330, 1854. 

 Gastrochsena agglutinans, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 335, 1856. 



Description. — " G. vagina, minima, elongato-clavata, postice valde attenuatd, 

 cortice valde et irregulariter transversim plicato, corpora alienii agglutinante. 

 Testa elongato-paulo latiore, extus ut in Solenibus bipartita, parte altera sub- 

 plana, arcuatim striata, altera, longitudinaliter tenuissime striata ; latere antico 

 brevissimo, abrupte truncato, cucuUato, angulo acuto circumscripto, radiatim 

 tenue lirato, liris subgranosis ; impressione musculari postica paulo post me- 

 diana, minima; sinu pallii profundo, acutissimo." — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Zebu, Philippines. Coll. Cuming. 



Remarks. — This shell is distinguished from G. mu m i a by its agglutinated 

 tube, the division of the surface of the valve into two parts, and their peculiar 

 striation. G. grandis has, like this species, an agglutinated tube, but its 

 valves are carinate and sulcate, and differently formed. 



2. G. grandis, Deshayes, sp. 



Chsena grandis, Deshayes, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. p. 330, 1854. 

 Gastrochaena grandis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 335, 1856. 



Description. — " G. vagina elongato-clavata, regulari, recta, transversim 

 rugata, postice attenuate, sabuletis in cortice agglutinante. Testa elongato- 

 angusta, hiantissima, postice latiore spathulata, ad latus anticum sensim 

 attenuata ; latere antico brevissimo, subito truncato et angulo acuto distincto, 

 in medio valde carinato vel cristato, radiatim insequaliter sulcato, sulcis 

 insequalibus novem ad decem, quinque majoribus denticulo acuto terminatis ; 

 cardine lineari, simplici ; impressione musculari postica in medio longitudinis 

 posita ; sinu pallii profundo, acutissimo." — Deshayes, 



Hab. — Zebu, Philippine Islands. Coll. Cuming. 



3. G. m u m i a ,* Spengler. 



Gastrochaena mumia, Spengler, Nov. Act. Sc. Soc. ii. p. 174, f. 1 — 7, 1783. 

 " Journ. Nat. Hist. Soc. Copenh. iii. p. 20, 

 t. 2, f. 1, la. 

 Favanne, Conch, t. 5, f. i, 1780. 

 Deshayes, Traite Elem. p. 32, t. 2, 1843— '50. 

 Morch, Catalogue, 1853. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. xci. f. 1, la, 1855. 

 Chaena mumia, Retzius, Nov. Test. Gen. p. 19, 1788. 



Schumacher, Essai d'un Nov. Syst. p. 94, 1817. 

 Woodward, Manual, t. 23, f. 16, 1854. 

 Chsena tessellata, Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 315, 1858. 



* Those species marked with a star are contained in the collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 477 



Fistulana mumia, Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 



Jay, Catalogue, 4th ed. p. 8, 1850. 

 Fistulana clava, Lamarck, Anim. Sans Vert. v. p. 435, 1818. 



" (Desh. edit.) Anim. Sans. Vert. vi. p. 30, 1835. 



Cuvier, Regne Anim. 1st edit. ii. p. 494, 1817. 



" " " (Audouin's edit.) t. 116, f. 1, a, 5, c. 



Sowerby, Genera, No. 27, f. 1—5. 

 Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 204, 1824. 

 Blainville, Malacol. t. 81, f. 3, 1825. 

 Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. Vers. ii. p. 140, 1830. 

 Wyatt, Conch, t. 33, f. 5, 1838. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 19, 1843. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p, 3, t. 11, f. 5, 1842. 

 Teredo clava, Gmelin, 3748, 1790. 



Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. ii. p. 1090, 1817. 

 Description. — "G. vagina tereti clavata, recta, tenuissima, fragili ; testae 

 valvis elongatis, antice contortis, uncinatis, regulariter striato-plicatis." — 

 Deshaijes. 



Hah. — India, Philippine Islands. 



This is the well known type of the old genus Fistulana. Very excellent 

 figures of it are given in the works of Deshayes, Cuvier, Blainville and 

 Sowerby, quoted above. 



G. (Chsena) annulata. Gray, B. M., Hah. Mozambique, Mauritius, is 

 mentioned in the Zool. Proc. Loud, for 1858, but without description. 



RoCELLAKIA. 



Considerable diversity of form exists among the species of this genus, and 

 their separation into groups would probably facilitate their study ; this we are 

 unfortunately not able to do in a very perfect manner, in consequence of the 

 extreme paucity of some of the descriptions. We have separated a subgenus 

 Spengleria, and propose to divide the remaining species into two groups. 



1st. Those whose shells are short and ovate. Ex R. dub la, hians, etc. 



2d. Those possessing elongate-cuneiform shells. Ex R. a p e r t i s s i m a, etc. 



It has been proposed to create a separate genus or subgenus for those 

 species possessing a large spathulate hinge lamina, and it is not at all impro- 

 bable that future researches will show the necessity for such division. It will 

 be seen that in a majority of the species the anterior hiatus is very long, 

 equalling the entire, or nearly the whole length, of the shell. There are 

 marked exceptions to this, however, in several species, the hiatus in R. 

 h u m i 1 i s , for instance, scarcely reaching to the middle of the shell. The 

 umbones are always placed near the anterior margin, and they are sometimes 

 terminal. Diiferences also occur in the width, length, prominence and color 

 of the ligament, in the contour of the margins, in the relative proportions of 

 the sides anterior and posterior to the beaks, the form of the hiatus, character 

 of the striation, the thickness of the valves, the size of the spathulate hinge 

 lamina, (which is ^enera% minute or obsolete,) and in the form of the interior 

 impression. 



a. Valves short, ovate. 

 1. R. brevis, Sowerby, sp. 



Gastrochsena brevis, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 21, 1834. 

 Th. Muller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 335, 1836. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 11, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Rocellaria brevis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa breviter ovata, tenui, pellucida, striata, strlis exi- 

 lissimis ; longitudine lateris antici octavum partim testse sequante. Long. O'S. 

 lat. 0-5, alt. b-5, ^o\\.''— Sowerby, 



1861.] 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Hah. — "Ad Insulas Gallapagos et apud Insulam Lord Hood's dictam. 

 Found in pearl oysters, in from three to seven fathoms." — Sowerhy. 



2. R. d e n t i c u 1 a t a , Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochaena denticulata, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 327, 1854. 

 Rocellaria denticulata, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p, 336, 1856. 



Description. — "R. testa ovato-ventricosa, brevi, solidula, lata, hiantissima, 

 hiatu ovato, lato, inferne attenuate et terliam partem posticam testae attin- 

 gente ; valvis subtrapezoidalibus transversim striato-lamellosis, in latere 

 antico striis imbricatis, crispato-denticulatis, in latere postico erectis, distan- 

 tioribus ; latere antico satis elongato, recto, in sutura cristato ; umbonibus 

 tumid ulis, subumbilicatis ; ligamento angusto, elongato, falvo." — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Columbia. Coll. Cuming. 



This is a heavy shell, while R. b r e v i s is thin and pellucid. It is also 

 more prominently striated than that species, and diflfers from it in shape. 



3. R. dubia,* Pennant, sp. 



Mya dubia, Pennant, Brit. Zool. iv. p. 82, t. 44, f. 19, 1777. 

 Donovan, British Shells, iii. t. 108, 1810. 

 Maton and Rackett, Linn. Trans, viii. p. 33, 1807. 

 Wood, Gen. Conch, p. 102, t. 25, f. 2, 3, 1815. 

 " Index Test, edit. 1, p. 11, 1818. 

 '« " " edit. 2, t. 2, f. 23, 1828. 



Gerville, Cat. des Coq. de la Manche, p. 10, 1825. 

 Mya Pholadia, Montagu, Test. Brit. i. p. 28 et 559, et supp. p. 20, 1803. 



Fleming, Edinb. Encyc. ii. p. 87. 

 Chama parva, DaCosta, Brit. Conch, p. 234, 1778. 

 Pholas faba, Pultney, Dorsetshire Catalogue, p. 27, 1799, 

 Pholas pusilla, Poll, Test. utr. Sicil. i. p. 50, t. 7, f. 12, 13, 1791. 



Olivi, Adrit. p. 93, 1792. 

 Mytilus ambiguus, Dillwyn, i. p. 304, 1817. 



Balano minimo, Ginanni, Op. post. ii. p. 35, t. 23, f. 164, 1755 — '57. 

 Gastrochaena Pholadia, Turton, Conch. Dithvra Brit. p. 18, t. 2, f. 8, 9, 

 1822. 

 Lukis, Loudon's Mag. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 404, f. 52, 



1833. 

 Brown, Illust. Brit. Conch. 2d ed. p. 116, t. 48, 

 f. 13, 14, 1844. 

 Gastrochsena hians, Fleming, Brit. Anim. p. 458, 1828. 

 Gastrochaena cuneiformis, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. i. p. 2, 1836. 

 Gastrochsena Polii, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. ii. p. 3, 1844. 



Requier, Cat. des Coq. de la Corse, p. 13, 1848. 

 Gastrochsena (Chsena) faba. Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim. v. p. 28, t. 339, f. 2, 



3, 4 ; t. 347, f. 6-8, 1857. 

 Gastrochaena modiolina, Lamarck, Anim. Sans Vert. v. p. 447. 1818. 



" (Desh. edit.) Anim. Sans Vert. vi. p. 

 49, 1835. 

 Sowerby. Genera, f. 1, 2, 1820— '24. 



" ' Conch. Manual, f. 52, 1842. 

 Crouch, Introd. Lamarck, t. 2, f. 12, a, h, 1827. 

 Bouchard-Chantreaux, Moll. Boulonnais, p. 8, 



1829. 

 Collard de Cherres, Cat. Test. Mar. p. 9, 1830. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 10, 1842. 

 Cailliaud, Guerin's Mag. Zool. Moll. p. 2, t. 69, 



70, 71, 1843. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 50, f. 1, 2, 1843. 

 Potiez et Michaud, Gallerie des Moll. ii. p. 268, 

 1844. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Gastrochaena modiolina, Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Concli. p. 33, 1844. 

 Jay, Catalogue, 4th ed. p. 9, 1850. 

 Leach, Moll. Great Britain, p. 256, t. 3, f. 3, 1852. 

 Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll. i. p. 132, t. 2, f. 



5—8, and t. F, f. 5, (animal,) 1853. 

 Woodward, Manual, pt. 2, t. 23, f. 15, 1854. 

 Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. p. 316, 1858. 

 Gastrochaena dubia, Philippi, Wiegmann's Archiv. Natur. t. 7, f. 1, 1845. 

 Catlow, Couch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Deshayes. Expl. Sci. de I'Algerie, Moll. p. 34. 



" Traite Elena, i. pt. 2, p. 34, t. 2, f. 4, 5, 



1843— '50. 

 Rocellaria dubia, H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. xci. f. 2, a, h, c, 1855. 

 Description. — "R. vagina pyriformi, contorta, crassa intus, ad aperturam 

 bicarinata ; testa ovato-oblongCi, angusta, transversim striata, antice sinuata ; 

 natibus prominulis, latere autico brevissimo." — Deshayes. 

 Hah. — England, Mediterranean. 



This species may be readily distinguished from the others by the slight 

 truncation of the margin at the posterior end of the shell, by its short, wide 

 hiatus, and its large laminar hinge plate. 



There are many excellent figures in the list of works quoted above, and a 

 very full description is contained in the " British Mollusca " of Messrs. Forbe.s 

 and Hanley. 



4. R. hians,* Chemnitz, sp. 



Pholas hians, Chemnitz, x. p. 364, t. 172, f. 1678 and 1679. 1788. 

 Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 3217, 1790. 

 Schreibers, Versuch nach Conch, ii. p. 367, 1793. 

 Dillwyn, Desc. Cat. i. p. 39, 1817. 

 Wood, Gen. Conch, p. 85, 1815. 

 " Index Test, 1st ed. p. 9, 1818. 

 " " " 2d ed. t. 2, f. 11, 1828. 



Fistulana riipestris, Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Coq. ii. p. 205, 1824, 

 Chaena cuneiformis, Retzius, Nov. Test. Gen. p. 19, 1788. 

 Gastrochjena cuneiformis, Spengler, Nov. Act. Sc. Soc. ii. p. 179, f. 8 — 

 11, 1783. 

 Lamarck, Anim. Sans Vert. v. p. 447, 1818. 

 " (Desh edit.) Anim. Sans Vert. vi. 



p. 49, 1835. 

 Rang, Tabl. Meth. 



Sowerby, Genera, f. 3, 4, 5, 1820— '24. 

 Blainville, Man. de Malacol. p. 574, t. 79, f. 



5, lb25. 

 Anton, Verzeich der Conchyl. p. 1, 1839. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 10, 1842. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 20,f. 4, 5, 1843. 

 Potiez et Michaud, Gallerie des Moll. ii. p. 



267, 1844. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Jay, Catalogue, 4th ed. p. 8, 1850. 

 D'Orbigny, Sagra's Hist, de I'Isle de Cuba, 



Moll. p. 228, 1853. 

 Beau, Cat. des Coq. Guadaloupe, p. 27, 1858. 

 Gastrochcena hians,'Gray, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 316, 1858. 

 Rocellaria hians, H." and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — "R. testa ovata, cuneiformi, tenui, albida, subpellucida, con- 

 eentrice dense striata, latere anali elongate, rotundato ; latere anali brevi, 

 angustato, acuminato ; latere palleali hiante. " — DWrbigny. 

 Hah. — West Indies. 



1861.] 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This species is represented by Chemnitz's figures, Nos. 1678 and 1679. Nos. 

 1680 and 1681 represent R. rostrata. Several writers have confounded the 

 two under one description, although they are really very different. R. h i a n s 

 has also been frequently confounded with R. d u b i a of Europe. 



5. R. humilis ,* Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochsena humilis, Deshayes, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. p. 327, 1854. 

 Rocellaria humilis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 



Description. — "R. testa parva, elongato-ovata, tumidiii, tenui, alba, hyalina, 

 fragili, apertura antica ovato-acuminata, dimidiam partem testae vix sequante, 

 oblique secta et rectilinea ; valvis subtrapezoidalibus, regulariter striato- 

 sublamellosis, striis continuis, antice approximatis, in medio paulo distanti- 

 oribus et prominentioribus ; umbonibus tumidulis, approximatis ; latere 

 antico brevissimo, in sutura cristata, parum obliquo ; ligamento angusto, 

 elongato, nigro." — Deshayes. 



i7a6.— Philippines, Zebu, (Cuming.) West Indies? Mus. Brit., Gray. 



The hiatus in this species scarcely reaches to the middle of the shell, whilst 

 it is not less than two-thirds the total length in any other species. 



6. R. hyalina, Sowerby, sp. 



Gastrochsena hyalina, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 22, 1834. 



Th. Muller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 236, 1836. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 11, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Rocellaria hyalina, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description.— ^' R. testa ovali, albida, hyalina, laevi, dorso longitudinaliter 

 striato ; latere antico brevi ; hiatu duos trientes testae zequante. Long. 0*55, 

 lat. 0-25, alt. 0-3 poll. "— 5owe%. 

 Bab. — Lord Hood's Isle. 



Sowerby's descriptions of species in this genus are entirely too short and 

 indefinite for satisfactory recognition. Having no specimens, we are not able 

 to give any opinion regarding the validity of his species, and therefore we are 

 compelled to insert them with the original Latin descriptions. 



7. R. intersecta, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochsena intersecta, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. London, p. 327, 1854. 



Rocellaria intersecta, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — "R. testa ovato-oblonga, brevi, cuneiformi, tenui, fragili, 

 Candida, oblique hiante, hiatu ovato, acuminato, dimidiam partem testae 

 sequante, valvis subspathulatis, antice angustis, postice dilatatis, striatis, 

 striis anticis regularibus extremitate detectis, aequidistantibus, arcuatis et in 

 medio evanescentibus et medianis interpositis, striis medianis inaequalibus, 

 majoribus distantibus ; latere antico brevissimo, fere nullo ; umbonibus 

 minimis, subterminalibus." — Deshayes. 

 Bab. ? Coll. Cuming. 



8. R. laevigata, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochaena laevigata, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 326, 1854. 

 Rocellaria laevigata, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — "R. testa ovato-cuneiformi, tenui, pellucida, fragili, candidis- 

 sima, ventricosa, late hiante, hiatu cordiformi, dimidiam partem testae paulo 

 superante; valvis laevigatis ; latere antico striis aliquibus regularibus, ad 

 mediam partem arcuatis et evanescentibus ; umbonibus minimis, obliquis, 

 approximatis, latere antico brevissimo, recto." — Deshayes. 

 Bab. ? Coll. Cuming. 



9. R. macroschisma, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochaena macroschisma, Deshayes, Proc. Zool. Soc. p. 326, 1854. 

 Rocellaria macroschisma, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — "R. testa ovata, brevi, ventricosa, tenui, fragili, Candida, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



autice hiantissima, hiatu subcordiformi, lato, oMiquo, et fere totam altitu- 

 dinem testje sequante ; valvis trapezoidalibus, tenuissime striatis, striis in 

 latere antico tenuissimus, appressis, in medio distantioribus, erectis, sub- 

 lamellosis ; latere postico obtuso, superne in sutura cristate ; umbonibus 

 tumidis, postice depressiusculis, latere antico brevi, recto ; sinu pallii parum 

 profundo, apice acuto, triangular!, subrequilaterali. " — Deshayes. 

 Hah. ? Coll. CumTng. 



10. R. o va t a,* Sowerby, sp. 



Grastrochrena ovata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. p. 21, 1834. 



Th. Midler, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 235, 1836. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 10, t. 9, f. 42, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Jay, Catalogue, 4tb edit. p. 9, 1850. 

 Carpenter, Mazatl. Shells, Brit. Mus. Cat. p. 15, 1S57. 

 Rocellaria ovata, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa ovata, albicante, longitudinaliter striata, striis 

 exilibus, lamellosis, formam marginis semper sequentibus ; longitudine lateris 

 antici quintam partem testae jequante. Long. 1*2, lat. 0'7, alt. 0'7 poll." — 

 Sowerhy. 



Hab. — In Sinn Panamensi (Isle of Perico) et ad Insulam Platte. Found in 

 spondyli at the Isle of Perico, and in coral rocks, at a depth of seventeen 

 fathoms, at the Island of Plata. Also inhabits St. Thomas Harbor, W. I., 

 (Coll. A. N. S.) and Charleston Bay, S. Carolina ! (Coll. Smithsonian Inst.) 



The great difference in the relative length of the anterior and posterior sides 

 will readily distinguish this species from R. brevis. R. dubia has a 

 slight truncation of the posterior margin of the valves, vchile this species is 

 always rounded posteriorly. The absence of the laminar hinge-plate and the 

 length of the hiatus also separate this shell from both R. dubia and R. 

 li i a n s . 



I have made a very close comparison between specimens from Panama and 

 those from the West Indies and Charleston, without detecting the slightest 

 difference between them. The Charleston specimens were collected by Dr. 

 Wm. Stimpson. 



11. R. pupina, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastroehaena pupina, Deshayes, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond, p. 326, 1854. 

 Rocellaria pupina, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 



Description. — " R. vagina crassa, brevi, clavata, transversim articulata, 

 laevigata, nulla corpora aliena agglutinante, in cavitate valvule affisa. Testa 

 minima, tenui, alba, hyalina, hiantissima, hiatu amplissimo quasi testae per 

 mediam partem resecto, oblique ina3qualiter bipartita, coarctata, extremitate 

 postica clausa, obtusa, attenuata ; latere antico satis longo, incumbente, 

 cucullato ; umbonibus prominulis, oblique terminalibus ; valvis laevigatis, 

 postice sutura brevi, carinata ; margine aperturse dorsali, parallelo." — Desk. 



Hah. — Morton Bay. Coll. Cuming. 



12. R. rugulosa, Sowerby, sp. 



Gastrochsena rugulosa, Sowerbv, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 22, 1834. 

 Th. Miiller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 235, 1836. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 11, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Rocellaria rugulosa, H. k A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa oblonga, albidii, striata, rugulosa, striis anticis 

 marginem hiantem confertis, acutis ; hiatu longissimo. Long. 0*8, lat. 0-3, 

 alt. 0*4 poll." — Sowerby. 



Hab.— ^^ Ad Insulas Gallapagos et apud Insulam Lord Hood's dictam." — 

 Sowerby. 



1861.] 32 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



6. Valves elongate-cuneiform. 

 Hiatus, equalling the whole length of the shell, apertissima, impressa, 

 lamellosa, Riippellii, spathulata, Stimpsonii, 

 t enera. 

 " nearly the entire length of the shell, cucullata, difficilis, 



interrupta. 

 * ' about two-thirds the length of the shell, indistincta, Philippi- 

 nensis. 



13. R. apertissima, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochsena apertissima, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 326, 1854. 

 Rocellaria apertissima, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 



Description. — " R. testa elongata, cuneiformi, inflata, tenui, fragili, per 

 totam altitudinem testa antice inferneque hiantissima, alba, tenui, pellucida, 

 antice brevissima, margine inferiore fere recto, posteriore obtuso, conveso, 

 superiore paulo obliquo ; valvis tenuissime striatis, striis in latere antico 

 transversalibus, in medio secundum lineam obliquam fractis, in area superiore 

 armatis, pluribus majoribus, subaequidistantibus ; ligamento angusto, elongate, 

 nigrescente. ' ' — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Philippines. Coll. Cuming. 



14. R. cucullata, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochisna cucullata, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 329, 1854. 



Rocellaria cucullata, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa elongate- cuneiformi, tenui, alba, fragili, subcretacea, 

 estremitate antica, brevissima, postica compressa, dilatata, spathuliformi, 

 antice inferneque oblique hiante, apertura lateraliter coarctata, fere totam 

 longitudinem testae aequante, latere antico angusto, incumbente, cucullato ; 

 valvis extus in tres areas divisis, prima antica obsolete striata, mediana 

 latiore, irregulariter arcuatim striato-rugosa, tertia circa ligamentum angus-- 

 tiore, laevigata ; umbonibus tumidulis, termiualibus ; ligamento satis promi- 

 nulo, elongato, fusco." — Deshayes. 

 Hah. — West Indies. Coll. Cuming. 



15. R. difficilis, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochaena difficilis, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 328, 1854. 

 Rocellaria difficilis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa elongato-transversa, ovata, cuneiformi, compres- 

 siuscula, oblique longe hiante, hiatu ovato-oblongo, inferne attenuate, fere 

 totam longitudinem testse aequante ; valvis trapezoidalibus, tenue striatis ; 

 striis tenuissimis, erectis, angustissimis, in latere antico confertioribus ; um- 

 bonibus minimis ; latere antico brevissimo, recto ; ligamento elongato, rufo, 

 angusto." — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Western India. Coll. Cuming. 



16. R. impressa, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochaena impressa, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 327, 1854. 

 Rocellaria impressa, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 



Description. — " R. testa elongato-cuneiformi, subovata, inflata, antice in- 

 ferneque amplissime aperta ; hiatu totam longitudinem testae ^quante, mar- 

 gine lateraliter oblique arcuato, antice angusto ; valvis tenuibus, subtrape- 

 zoidalibus, in medio sulco vix impresso bipartitis, parte antica tenue trans- 

 versim striata, striis in sulco subfractis, parte postica arcuatim et irregulariter 

 sulcato-striata, in latere postico striis oblique ascendentibus ; umbonibus 

 tumidulis, postice obtuse subangulatis, fere termiualibus ; ligamento augus- 

 tissime, elongato, partim immerso." — Deshayes. 



Hah. ? Coll. Cuming. 



17. R. indistincta, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochsena indistincta, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 328. 1854. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



Rocellaria indistincta, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 



Description. — "R. testa ovato-elongata, angusta, cuneiformi, tenui, albd, 

 oblique truncata, elongato-hiante, hiatu elongato, acuminato, augusciusculo, 

 usque ad tertiam partem posticam testae attingente, transversim striata, striis 

 antice tenuibus, regularibus, sublamellosis, erectis, in medio paulo distanti- 

 oribus, et minus regularibus in area postica tenuissimis ; area postica elongato- 

 angusta, angulo obtuso-distincta ; latere antico brevissimo, ligameuto angus- 

 tissimo, partim infosso, breviusculo." — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Singapore. Coll. Cuming. 



18. R. interrupta, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochrena interrupta, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 329, 1854. 



Rocellaria interrupta, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — "R. testa elongato-augusta, couvexiuscula, extremitatibus 

 fere aequaliter lata, per longitudinem quasi excisa, late aperta ; hiatu longis- 

 simo, ovato, oblongo, inferne vix acuto, et fere totam longitudinem testae 

 aequante ; valvis oculo nudo laevigatis, subleutij argutissime striatis, striis 

 obsoletis, distantibus, incrementi distantibus, subcontabulatis, interruptis ; 

 margine inferiore recto, superiore fere parallelo, umbonibus minimis, sub- 

 terminalibus : latere antico brevi, inclinato ; ligamento angustissimo, brevi." 

 — Deshayes. 



Hah. —Philippines. Coll. Cuming. 



19. R. lamellosa, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochaena lamellosa, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 328, 1854. 



Rocellaria lamellosa, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa elongato-angusta, tenui, fragili, Candida, hyalina, 

 compressiuscula, longe hiante, margine antice paululam excavato, in medio 

 convexo, hiatu longissimo, inferne valde attenuata, fere totam altitudinem 

 testae aequaute ; valvis antice valde attenuatis, rostratis, postice obtusis, 

 rotundatis, antice tenuissime striatis, striis erectis, appressis, in medio dis- 

 tantioribus, breviter lamellosis, eleganter armatis, regularibus ; umbonibus 

 minimis, approximatis, subumbilicatis ; latere antico brevissimo, subrostrato ; 

 ligamento angustissimo, nigro." — Deshayes. 

 ifai.— Philippines, Zebu. Coll. Cuming. 



20. R. Philippinensis, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochasna Philippinensis, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 328, 1854. 

 Rocellaria Philippinensis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa elongato-angusta, subovata, compressiuscula, tenui, 

 alba, antice inferneque oblique hiante, hiatu ovato, inferne acuminato, di- 

 midiam partem testae paulo superante ; valvis tenue striato-lamellosis ; striis 

 arcuatis, secundum peripheriam valvarum antice tenuibus, approximatis, in 

 medio latioribus, sublamellosis ; margine superiore postico paulo carinato ; 

 umbonibus minimis ; latere antico brevi, recto, subrostrato." — Deshayes. 

 Z?a6.— Philippines, Zebu. Coll. Cuming. 



21. R. Ruppellii, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochaena Ruppellii, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 328, 1854. 

 Rocellaria Ruppellii, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa elongato-ovata, solidula, turgidula, Candida, antice 

 oblique hiante ; hiatu ovato, late, infere attenuato, fere totam altitudinem 

 testae aequante ; valvis dense striatis, striis obtusis, antice satis regularibus, 

 appressis, in medio et latere postico distantioribus, irregularibus, obtusis ; 

 umbonibus tumidulis ; latere antico brevi, recto, antice parum inflexo ; liga- 

 mento praelongo, angusto." — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Red Sea. (Rlippell.) Coll. Cuming. 



1861.] 




484 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



22. R. spathulata, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochsena spathulata, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 329, 1854. 



Rocellaria spathulata, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa elongato-angusta, cuneiformi, compressiuscula, 

 tenui, fragili, alba, antice longe hiante, hiatu fere totam longitudinem testte 

 sequante, inferne sensim attenuata ; valvis antice angustis, postice latioribus, 

 spathulatis, irregulariter striatis, striis lateris antici tenuioribus, magis regvi- 

 laribus, rectis, in medio rugulosis, arcuatis, insequalibus, umbonibus minimis, 

 acutis, fere terminalibus ; latere antico brevissimo ; ligamento elongate, 

 angusto, fuscescente ; sinii pallii angustissimo, acuto, profundissimo, usque 

 umbones versus ascendente." — Deshayes. 

 Sab. — Philippines, Bohol. Coll. Cuming. 



R. Stimpsonii, Tryon. 



Description. — R. testa elongato-angusta, alba, extremitate antica 

 brevissima, acuminata ; valvis concentrice dense striatis ; umbonibus 

 prominulis, fere terminalibus ; hiatu anguste-elongata, fere totam 

 longitudinem testse sequante ; margine anteriore et posteriore fere paral- 

 lelis. Long. -62, lat. -24, poll. 

 ^a6.— Beaufort Harbor, N. C. Wm. Stimpson, M. D. Coll. Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 



The above description is drawn up from a single valve obtained by Dr. 

 Stimpson in the harbor of Beaufort, N. C. It is so very different from the 

 other species of Rocellaria found on our Southern Coast and in the West 

 Indies, that I have not hesitated in regarding it as new. The great length of 

 the valve in proportion to its breadth, and the nearly parallel margins, dis- 

 tinguish it from R. o v a t a and R. h i a n s . In the latter, the beaks are 

 more nearly terminal. R. d u b i a of Europe, besides the above differences, 

 has a truncated posterior end, whilst this is regularly rounded ; and all the 

 above species are much more inflated, with a wider hiatus, than in R. Stimp- 

 sonii. 



The hinge exhibits small but well marked laminae. 



24. R. tenera, Deshayes, sp. 



Gastrochsena tenera, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. p. 327, 1854. 

 Rocellaria tenera, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 



Description. — " R. testa elongato-angusta, tenui, pellucida, compressius- 

 cula, antice angusta, postice paulo latiore, subdilatata, antice apertissima, 

 hiatu totam altitudinem sequante, lateraliter paulo sinuoso ; valvis antice 

 in£equaliter tenue striatis, in medio distanter arcuato-subplicatis ; umbonibus 

 tumidulis, subterminalibus ; latere antico brevi, subhorizontali, in sutura 

 cristato, et emarginato ; sinu pallii magno, profundo, triangulari, apice 

 acutissimo, basi lato." — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Philippines. Coll. Cuming. 



Subgenus Spengleria. 



25. R. M y 1 11 i d e s ,* Lamarck, sp. 



Gastrochaena Mytiloides, Lam. Anim. sans Vert. v. p. 447, 1818. 



" (Desh.ed.) Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 49, 1835. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 10, t. 9, f. 37, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Rocellaria Mytiloides, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 (No name.) Rumphius, Amboinsche Rarit. t. 45, f. P, 1705. 



Description. — " R. testa ovata ; valvis area longitudinali pyramidata dis- 

 tinctis ; rugis transversis, fuscis." — Lamarck. 1^ inch long. 

 fia3.— Isle of France. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



26. R. plicatilis, Desliayes, sp. 



Gastrocbffiua plicatilis, Deshayes, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 329, 1854. 

 Rocellaria plicatilis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 



Description. — " R. testa elongato-ovata, teuui, fragili, pellucida, compres- 

 siuscula, longe liiante, postice truncata, hiatu maximo, elongate, totam alti- 

 tudinem testse aequante, infernc sensim atteuuata ; valvis in tres areas divisis, 

 una antica lata, transversim regulariter striata, striis tenuissimis, oblique sub- 

 lente striolatis, parte secunda oblique mediana, angusta, laevigata, posticii 

 pyramidatcl, prominentiore, sulcis depressiusculis circumdata, transversim 

 profunde sulcata, quasi scalariformi, area circa ligamentum planulata, elongato 

 lanceolata, ligamento crasso, elongato." — Deshayes. 



Hah. — Pbilippines, Zebu. Coll. Cuming. 



27. R. rostrata,* Spengler, sp. 



Gastrocbaena rostrata, Spengler, Nov. Act. Sc. Soc. ii. 1783. 

 Gastrocbaena callosa, Philippi, Weigmann's Arehiv, 1845. 

 Gastrocbaena Cbemnitziana, D'Orbiguy, Sagra's Cuba, Moll. p. 229, t. 29, 



f. 29, 30. 

 Beau, Cat. Coq. Guadaloupe, p. 27, 1858. 

 Rocellaria rostrata, Morch, Catalogue, 1853. 



H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Pholas liians, (partim,) Cbemnitz, s. f. 1680 — '81, 1788. 

 Description. — "R. testa oblongo-cuneata, tenui, albida, concentrica striata, 

 area anali longitudinali pyramidata, externe sulcata, plicis transversis rectis 

 ornata ; latere anali elongata, transversim truncato ; latere buccal! angustato, 

 obtuso ; biatu magno. Long. 24 mill." — D'Orbigny. 

 Hah. — West Indies. 



Tbis species is distinguisbed from R. truncata by its large transverse 

 lamellar ribs, tbeir place being occupied in tbe latter species by coarse striae, 

 Tbe anterior margin of R. r o s t r a t a is also more convex and not emarginate- 

 and tbe portion of tbe sbell anterior to tbe umbones is wide, and not acumi- 

 nate as in R. t r u n c a t a . 



It resembles R. mytiloides, but maybe distinguisbed, according to 

 D'Orbigny, by tbe ''cotes anales plus droites, son sillon lateral bien plus pro- 

 nonce, et ses stries plus regulieres.'" Tbe specimens of tbe two species in tbe 

 collection of tbe Academy, tbougb authentic, do not exhibit sufficient dis- 

 tinctive characters to clear the mind from all doubt, though the probability is 

 that they are properly separated. 



28. R. truncata,* Sowerby, sp. 



Gastrocbaena truncata, Sowerby, Zool. Proc. Lond. p. 21, 1834. 

 Tb. Miiller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 235, 1836. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 10, t. 9, f. 40, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Jay, Catalogue, 4tb edit. 1850. 

 Carpenter, Mazatlan Shells, Brit. Mus. Cat. p. 14, 

 1857. 

 Rocellaria truncata, II. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 336, 1856. 

 Description. — " R. testa oblonga, postice rotundato-truncata, striata, sor- 

 dide albicante ; epidermide tenui lamellosi, postice tecta ; latere antico bre- 

 vissimo, subacuminato. Long. 1-4, lat. 0-7, alt. 0-7, Tpo\l.''—Soiverb>/. 

 Bab. — In Simx Panamensi, (Isle of Perico.) Found in Spondyli. 

 This is a very distinct species, and is well authenticated both by the nume- 

 rous specimens existing in cabinets, and by Mr. Carpenter's excellent descrip- 

 tion. The original diagnosis by Sowerby is rather meagre, though much 

 better than several others by this author. The hinge is armed with a distinct 

 spathulate lamina. 

 1861.] 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



CUCUKBITULA. 



C. cymbia,* Spengler, sp. 



Gastrochsena cybium, Spengler, Nov. Act. Sc. Soc. ii. 1783. 

 Fistulana lagenula, Lamarck, Anim. Sans Vert, v, p. 436. 1818. 



" (Desh. ed.) Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 31, 



1835. 

 Bosc, Hist, des Coq. ii. p. 205, 1824. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 3, t. 13, f. 59, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Cucurbitula lagenula, Gould, Boston Proc. viii. p. 22, 1861. 

 Description- — "C. nana, latere affixu ; vagina lagenceformi, segmentis 

 transversis articulata. ' ' — Lamarck. 



"T. elongatil, arcuata, tenuis, lactea, postice quadrangularis, antice de- 

 clivis, et in rostrum protracta ; umbonibus ventricosis ad quadrantem antica- 

 lem positis ; margine dorsali postica. recta ; margine ventrali incurvata ; angu- 

 lis posticis rotundatis ; fascie dorsali late ovato-cuneatil, postice cito angustata; 

 fascie ventrali ovata, omniuo hiaute. Long. 12; lat. 6; alt. 3 millim." — 

 —Gould. 



Hah. — "Inhabits Hong Kong Harbor, 10 fathoms, Shelly Sand." W. 

 Stimpson. " Red Sea ;" label of specimen, from G. B. Sowerby, in Coll. A. N. S. 

 The tube of this species is a well known object in Conchological CoUect- 

 tions ; it is strange that the valves were never described until this year. It 

 is widely distributed as a fossil species, and, had we included its synonymy, 

 as such, the list would extend to a page or more. Although the descriptions 

 by the older writers are sufficiently comprehensive for a perfect recognition of 

 the species by its tube alone, still it is very questionable, whether, consider- 

 ing that Dr. Gould was the first to describe the entire MoUusk, the credit 

 should not be given to him for the species, 



Bkyopa. 

 1. B. a p e r t a ,* Sowerby, sp. 



Clavagella aperta, Sowerby, Genera, No. 13, f. 1, 2, 3, 4, 1820-24. 

 Crouch, Introd. Lamarck, t. 2, f. 7, a, h, 1827. 

 Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. Vers. ii. p. 240, 1830. 



" Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. 2 edit. vi. p. 25. 

 1835. 

 Deshayes, Expl. Sci. de I'Algerie, Moll. p. 15, t. 1, f. 1. 

 Cuvier, Regne, Anim. (Audouin's Ed.) MoU. t. 117, f. 2. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. i. p. 35, t. 18, 1841. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2, t. 9, f. 21, 1842. 

 Cailliaud, Guerin's Mag. Zool. 1842, t. 49, f. 1-7, t. 50, 



f. 1 and 2, t. 51, f. 1-4, 

 Cailliaud, Chenu's 111. Conch. Clavagella, p. 4, t. 1, 



f. 3-6. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. xci. f. 3, a, b, c, 



1856. 

 Gray, Figs, Moll. Anim. t. t. 340 f. 6, 7, 8, 1857. 

 Clavagella vivens ? Rang, Man. Moll. p. 342, 1829. 

 Clavagella sicula, Dellachiaje Anim. Sans Vert. t. 83, f. 19 and 23, 



t. 84, f. 18, 22, 23. 

 Bryopa aperta. Gray, Zool. Proc, p. 314, 1858. 



H, and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Beicription. — "B. excavatioovata, rotunda, superascensa ; tubo cumlimbis; 

 valvis subtriangularibus, ovatis, maxime oscilatis, concavis, rugosis, marga- 

 ritaceis intus ; umbone subrotundato." — Cailliaud. 

 Hah. — Mediterranean Sea. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



A very complete account of this species is given in Cailliaud's Monograph, 

 contained in Guerin's Magazine. M. Calliaud considers the following species 

 (B. 1 a t a) a synonym : not being entirely satisfied that such is the case, I 

 have not united them under one description. A full anatomical description, 

 splendidly illustrated, is contained in Deshayes' MoUusca of the Exploration 

 of Algei'ia. 



2. B. lata, Broderip, sp. 



Clavagella lata, Broderip, Zool, Proc. p. Ill, 1834. 



" " Trans. 1, p. 265, t. 30, f. 8-10, 1835. 



Owen, (Anatomy,) Trans. 1, p. 267, t. 3, f. 11-16, 1835. 

 Mliller, Svn. Test. Viv. p. 240, 1836. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2, t. 11, f. 4, 1842. 

 Deshayes, Traite, Elem. p. 25, t. 1, f. 12-14, 1843-50. 

 Cailliaud, Chenu, Illus. Conch, p. 5, t. 3, f. 7. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 338, 1856. 

 Bryopalata, " " " ii. p. 649, 1858. 



Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 315, 1858. 

 Description- — " B. camera rotundato-ovata, valva libera, latiuseula, sub- 

 trigoni, subconvexa, externa concentrice rugosa, intus nitente ; umbone sub- 

 rotuudato. '' — Broderip. 

 Hab. — Indian Ocean, Pacific. 



3. B. M e 1 i t e n s i s , Broderip, sp. 



Clavagella Melitensis, Broderip, Zool. Proc. p. 116, 1834. 



" " Trans, i. p. 265, t. 35, f. 5-8, 1835. 



Mliller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 240, 1836. 

 Cuvier, Regue Auim. (Audouin's edit.) t. 117, 



f. 1, a, h, c, c/. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2, t. 11, f. 3, 1842. 

 Cailliaud, Guerin's Mag. Zool. t. 50, f. 4, 1842. 

 " 111. Conch. Chenu, Clavagella, p. 4, 



t. 1, f. 5, and t. 3, f. 1-6. 

 Forbes, Rep. ^gean Invert, p. 142, 1843. 

 Deshayes, Expl. Sci. de I'Algerie, Moll. p. 14, 



t. 1, f. 2. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 338, 1856. 

 Gray, Figs, Moll. Anim. v. t. 340, f. 9, and t. 341, 

 f. 1, 1857. 

 Clavagella angulata, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. ii. p. 2, t. 13, f. 3, 1844. 

 Bryopa Melitensis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Description. — " Testa subrotundata, convexa, rugosa, intus subnitens ; tubo 

 longitudinaliter corrugate. ' ' — Broderip. 

 Hab. — Greece, Venice, Malta, Sicily. 



Dr. J. E. Gray, in Proc. Zool. Soc. 1S58, writes this as a synonym to 

 B. a p e r t a . I have followed Deshayes and Cailliaud in considering it distinct. 

 Deshayes has detected differences in the animals of the two species, and the 

 shells may be readily separated by the differences in shape of the valves, 

 which appear to be permanent. 



Subgenus Dacosta. 



4. B. Australis,* Sowerby, sp. 



Clavagella Australis, Sowerby, Stuchbury Cat. App. t. 1, f. 1. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2, t. 9, f. 22. 1842. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 338, iii. t. xci. f. 3, 

 a, b, c, 1856. 



1861.1 




488 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Bryopa (S. G. Dacosta,) Australis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 



1S5S. 

 Dacosta Australis, Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 315, 1858. 

 Clavagella elongata, Broderip, Zool. Proc. p. 116, 1834. 



" " Trans, i. p. 265, t. 35, f. 1-4, 1835. 



Miiller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 240, 1836. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2. t. 11, f. 1, 2, 1842. 

 Cailliaud, Guerin's Mag. Zool. p. 17, t. 50, f. 3, 1842. 

 " Chenu, lUust. Conch. Clavagella, p. 4, 



t. 1, f. 4. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 338, 1856. 

 Bryopa elongata " " " " p. 649, 1858. 



Description. — " B. camera elongato-ovata ; valva libera elongata, subtrigonu, 

 couvexa, externe concentrioe valde rugosa, intus nitente ; umbone acuto." — 

 Broderip. 



Hah. — Pacific. 



I agree with Dr. Gray in uniting B. elongata with B. Australis, a 

 comparison of the descriptions and figures of the two species demonstrates 

 their entire identity. 



5. B. balanorum, Scacchi, sp. 



Clavagella balanorum, Scacchi, Mss. Philippi, Weigman's Archiv flir 

 naturg. i. p. 181, t. 3, f. 1-6, 1340. 

 Cailliaud, Guerin's Mag. Zool. p. 16, t. 52, f. 1-5, 



1842. 

 Cailliaud, Chenu's 111. Conch. Clavagella, p. 4, 



t. 1, f. 7. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2, t. 10, f. 21, 1842. 

 Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. ii. p. 1, t. 13, f. 2, 



1844. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 2, 1845. 

 Gray's Figs, Moll Anim. v. t. 340, f. 1-5, 1857. 

 H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 338, 1856. 

 Bryopa balanorum, " " " " p. 649, 1858. 



Description. — " B. testa- bivalvis in conceptaculo ovali, rotundata ; con- 

 ceptaculum ipsum in fistulam subtetragonam productum ; valvse subtrigoni», 

 rugosje.'' — Cailliaud. 

 Bab. — Naples. 



I have strong doubts respecting the distinctness of this species from 

 B. aperta. The shell is uniformly smaller, and the tube short, just ex- 

 tending beyond the surface of the masses of Balani in which it is imbedded. 

 Perhaps the young shell of B. aperta? 



Bkechites. 

 1. B. annul us,* Deshayes, sp. 



Aspergillum annulosum, Deshayes, Mss. in Mus. Cuming. 



Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 1, f. 1, a, b, 1860. 

 Brechites annulus. Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 312, 1858. 

 Description. — " B. testa valvis sublate ovatis, tumidiusculis : vagina elon- 

 gato-attenuata, undique undato-annulosa ; fimbria perampla, regulari, tubu- 

 lis longis, minimis, confertis ; disco valde convexo, perforationibus parvis, 

 numerosis, parum tubulosis." — Reeve. 

 Hah. — Singapore. 



This species may be distinguished from B. Javanus and B. pulchrus 

 by the annular markings on its tube. The frill is much more regular than 

 in either of the other species. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



2. B. Javanus, Lamarck, sp. 



Aspergillum Javanum, Lamarck, Anim. Sans Vert. v. p. 439, 1818. 



" (Desh. edit.) Anim. sans Vert. vi. p. 20, 



1835. 

 Blainville, Malacol. p. 576, t. 81, f. 2, 1S25. 

 Crouch, lutrod. Lam. t. 2, f. 5, 6, 1827. 

 Cuvier, Regne Anim. (Audouin's ed.) t. 119, f. 2. 

 Wyatt, Conch, t. 33, f. 3, 1838. 

 Anton, Verzeich der Conch, p. 1, 1839. 

 Reichenbach, Conchylien, p. 122, 1842. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 1, 1842. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 17, f. 3-5, 1843. 



" Monog. Asp. t. 1, f. 3, 1860. 

 Deshayes, Traite, Elem. i. pt. 2, p. 15, f. 1, 2, 3. 

 Potiez et Mich. G-allerie des Moll. ii. p. 273, 1844. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Chenu, IlL Conch. Asp, p. 2, t. 2, f. 1, 2. 

 Aspergillum Listeri, Gray, Ann. Philos. 1825. 



" ZooL Proc. p. 311, 1858. 

 Clepsydra Javanica, Schumacher, Essai d'un, Nov. Syst. p. 261, 1S17. 

 Penicillus Javanus, Bosc, Hist. Nat. des Moll. v. p. 154, t. 41, f. 1, 1824. 

 Brechites Javanus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, t. xci. f. 4a,1856. 

 Brechites penis, MiJrch, Catalogue, 1853. 

 Phalus testaceus. Lister, t. 548, f. 3, 1685. 

 Phalus marinus, Rumphius, Amboiusche, t. 41, f. 7, 1705. 



Gualtieri, Test. t. 10, f. m. 1742. 

 Tuhulus marinus, (partim) Klein, Tab. Mar. Gen. p. 20, 1753. 



Martini, Conch, i. p. 42, t. 1, f. 7, 1769. 

 Serpula Penis, (partim) Linnaeus, Gmelin. 



Brooke, Conch, t. 9, f. 130, 1815. 

 Knorr, Vergnug, iv. t. 28, f. 1, vi. t. 40, f. 1, 1773. 

 Schreibers, ii. p. 372, 1793. 

 Schroeter, Einleit. Conch, ii. p. 554, 1784. 

 Serpula aquaria (partim, )Dillwyn, Cat. p. 1083, 1817. 



Mawe, Conch, t. 34, f. 3, 1823. 

 Wood, Index, Test. edit. 2, t. 38, f. 34, 1828. 

 Woodarch, Introd. t. 4, f. 61,. 1831. 

 Serpula perforata, Shaw, Nat. Misc. vi. t. 188. 

 Aquaria radiata. Perry, Conch. 1811. 

 Description. — " B. testii valvis sublate ovatis, tumidiusculis ; vagina elon- 

 gato-attenuatii, subannulosa ; fimbria ampla, iri-egulari, subflexuosu, tubulis 

 parvis, longis, confertis, hie illic ramoso-agglomeratis ; disco valde convexo, 

 perforationibus numerosis, parvis, parum tubulosis." — Reeve. 

 Hah. — Java. 



Aspergillum sparsum of Sowerby is sometimes quoted as a synonym of 

 B. J a V a n u s — it is, however, more closely allied to Brechites aquaria of 

 Burrow, in the synonymy of which we have placed it. 



Dr. Gray has named this species B. (Aspergillum) Listeri, alleging 

 that the Aspergillum Javanum of Lamarck included several species ; but 

 since the majority of conchologists have designated this shell as Lamarck's 

 species; it does not seem necessary to adopt Dr. Gray's name at this late 

 period. 

 '3. B. pulchrus, Deshayes, sp. 



Aspergillum pulchrum, Deshayes, Mss. in Mus. Cuminer. 



Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 3, f. 13,1860. 

 Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 312, 1858. 

 1861.] 




490 



PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



Aspergillum Javanum, var. Cheuu. 



Description. — " B. testa valvis ovatis, antics subattenuatis ; vagina angusta, 

 obscure aiinulosa ; fimbria perampla, profuse ramosa,, tubulis praelongis 

 minutis, crispatis, numerosissimis, irregulariter dichotomis, disco minute 

 perforate, perforationibus spinoso-tubulosis." — Reeve. 



Hah. — Singapore. 



B. pulchrus is remarkable for the profusion of twisted tubuli constitut- 

 ing its fringe. It is a smaller shell than B. Javanus, and is apparently 

 a good species. 



Subgenus Warnea. 



4. B. Australis, Chenu, sp. 



Aspergillum Australe, Chenu, Illust. Conch, p. 3, t. 3, f. 1, la. 



Catlow, Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Brechites Australis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Warnea Australis, Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 310,1858. 

 Aspergillum Cumingianum, Chenu, Illust. Conch, p. 3, t. 3, f. 4. 4a. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. Conch. Icon. t. 2, f. 7, 

 a, 6, 1860. 

 Brechites Cumingianus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Aspergillum incertum, Chenu, Illust. Conch, p. 4, t. 4, f. 5. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 4, f. 19, 1860. 

 Brechites incertus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Description. — " B. vagina longa, recta, subclavata, arenas et zoophyta ag- 

 glutinante ; disco piano, irregulariter fimbriato, tubulis extus minimis et 

 subprominulis perforate ; fissura profunde incisa, limbis foleaceis inferne 

 decorata ; valvis sequalibus, inclusis." — Chenu. 

 Hah. — Australia. 



The three species quoted above may not be the same, but more specimens 

 will require to be examined to prove their distinctness. 



5. B. vagiuiferus,* Lamarck, sp. 



Aspergillum vaginiferum, Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. v. p. 430, 1818. 



" (Desh. ed.) Anim. sans Vert. vi. 



p. 21, 1835. 

 Sowerbv, Genera, f. 1, 2. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 1, t. 9, f. 23, 1842. 

 Ruppell, Atlas. Reise, Nord. Afric. t. 12, f. 2. 

 Savigny, Expl. Egypt, Moll. t. 14, f. 9. 

 Guerin, Iconog. du Reg. Anim. t. 33, f. 7. 

 Reeve, Conch. Syst. t. 17, f. 1, 2, 1843. 

 Chenu, Conch. Illust. Asp. p. 2, t. 1, f. 1, a, 6, c, 



t. 4, f. 9, a, h, c, and t. 5, f. 1-9. 

 Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim. t. 341, f. 2, 1857. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. Conch. Icon. t. 1, f. 2, 1860. 

 Brechites vaginiferus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, iii. t. xci. 

 f. 4, 1856. 

 " (S. G. Warnea,) vaginiferus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 



1858. 

 Warnea vaginifera. Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 339, 1858. 

 Aspergillum Delessertianum, Chenu, €onch. Illust. Asp. p. 3, t. l,f. 2. 

 Catlow, Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 2, f. 6, 1860. 

 Brechites Delessertianus, II. and A. Adams, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Description. — "'B. testa valvis oblongo-ovatis, concentrice tenuissime lirato- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



sitriatis, postice angulatis ; vagina longissime subrecta, arenulas agglutinante, 

 limbo ad superam extremitatem conspicue trifariam ad quinquefariam foliato ; 

 fimbria brevi, tubulis subamplis, liberis, ssepe irregularibus ; disco conveso, 

 amplo, perforationibus amplis, tumidiusculis." — Reeve. 



Ilab.— Red Sea. 



There is but little doubt of the identity of B. Delessertianns with this 

 species. Gray and Reeve both consider it the same. The differences in 

 B. Ddessertianus are not suflScient for a separation, unless the examination 

 of a large number of specimens shall prove them to be constant. 



Pexicillus. 



1. P. aquaria,* Burrow, sp. 



Serpula aquaria, Burrow, Elem. p. 166, t. 22, f. 3. 



Brechites aquarius, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 



Penicillus aquarius, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 



Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 312, 1858. 

 Aspergillum sparsum, Sowberby, Genera, No. 27, f. 3-5. 

 Penicillus sparsus. H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 649, 1858. 

 Aspergillum semifimbriatum, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 4, t. 3, f. 5. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 2, f. 5, 1860. 

 Serpula penis? (pars'* Linnseus, Gmelin, etc. 



Description. — "P. testa valvis sublate ovatis, postice subangulatis, vagina 

 tumidiuscula, saepe distorta, inferne contracta ; fimbria suberecta, tubulis 

 sub-elongatis, dichotomis ; disco parviusculo, perforationibus simplicibus." — 

 Reeve. Desc. of Semijimhriatum, 

 Hah.—RQA. Sea. 



Burrow's description of P. aquaria is entirely unsatisfactory, and he is 

 only given credit for this species, on account of his figure, which represents it 

 well enough. 



Mr. Reeve considers P. semijimhriata doubtfully distinct. Dr. Gray regards 

 it, however, as a merely distorted form of this species. The latter is un- 

 doubtedly correct, as a comparison of the figures of the two species abundantly 

 establishes. Dr. Chenu's description is drawn up from a single specimen in 

 the cabinet of Hugh Cuming. 



2. P. dichotoma,* Chenu, sp. 



Aspergillum dichotomum, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 3, t. 2, f. 6. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Aspergillum, t. 3, f. 9, 1860. 

 Brechites dichotomus, H. and A. Adams, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Aspergillum disjunctum, Deshayes, Mss. in Mus. Cuming. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 3, f. 12, 1860. 

 Description. — "P. testa valvis oblongo-ovatis, subtrapezoideis ; vagina 

 breviuscula, superne gradatim attenuata, sa^pe distorta, inferne subcontracta ; 

 fimbria subampla, valde irregular!, tubulis tenuibus elongatis promiscue dis- 

 tortis et agglomeratis, ssepe dichotomis ; disco parviusculo, convexo, minute 

 perforate. ' ' — Reeve. 

 Hab. — Singapore. 



Dr. Gray considers this species to be a variety of P. aquaria, from which it 

 constantly differs, however, in having a much more irregular frill, with the 

 tubuli more numerous. 



I have ventured, after a comparison of figures and descriptions in Reeve's 

 Monograph, to include P. disjuncta, in the synonymy of this species. 



3. P. radix,* Deshayes, sp. 



Aspergillum radix, Deshayes, Mss. in Mus. Cuming. 



Reeve, Monog. Aspergillum, t. 3. f. 11, 1860. 

 1861.] 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pemcillus radix; Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 312, 1858. 



Description. — "P, testa, valvis ovatis, utrinque subaugulatis ; vagina 

 superne compressa, et longitudinaliter sulcata ; inferiie globoso-tumida, de 

 inde anguste contracta ; fimbria ampla, tubulis elongatis, coufertis, parum 

 irregiilaribus ; disco parvo, profuse minute perforate. " — Reeve. 



Hab. — Amboina. 



Mr. Reeve does not consider this species as positively distinct, but states 

 that Mr. Cuming possesses three specimens, all alike. Judging from the 

 figure and description, I do not doubt its specific weight. 



Subgenus Clepsydra. 



4. P. strangulata, Chenu, sp. 



Aspergillum strangulatum, Chenu, Illust. Conch, p. 3, t. 2, f. 4. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Brechites strangulatus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Penicillus (S. G. Clepsydra) strangulatus, H. and A. Adams, ii. p. 649, 



1858. 

 Clepsydra strangulata, Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 313, 1858. 

 Description. — "P. vagina longa, clavata, varie picta, superne strangulata; 

 disco piano, tubulis minimis tecto ; fimbria regulariter triplicata ; fissurii 

 recta; valvis insequalibns, incluso-depressis." — Chenu. 

 Hab. — N. E, Coast of Australia. 



FCEGIA. 



1. F. agglutinans, Lamarck, sp. 



Aspergillum agglutinans, Lamarck, Anim. Sans Vert. v. p. 430, 1818. 

 " (Desh. edit.) Anim. Sans. Vert. vi. 

 p. 21, 1835. 

 Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. Vers. ii. p. T3, 1830. 

 Cuvier, Regne Anim. (Audouin's ed.) 1. 119, f. 1. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2, t. 10, f. 19, 1842. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Chenu, Illust. Conch. Asp. p. 2, t. 3, f. 2. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 4, f. 18, 1860. 

 Brechites agglutinans, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Foegia agglutinans, " " " ii. p. 650, 1858. 



Gray, Proc. Zool. See. p. 313, 1858. 

 Aspergillum Nova Zelandiae, Lamarck, Anim. sans Vert. v. p. 430, 1818. 



" (Desh. ed.) Anim. sans Vert. vi. 



p. 21, 1835. 

 Hanley, Desc. Cat. p. 2, t. 9, f. 54, 1842. 

 Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 2, t. 2, f. 6, 7, 8, 9. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 4, f. 17, I860. 

 Penicillus Nova Zelandise, Bosc. Hist, Nat. des Moll. i. p. 154, 1824. 

 Brechites (S. G. Fcegia,) Nova Zelandse, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. 



p. 339, 1856. 

 Aspergillum Nova Hollandise, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 4, t. 4, f. 8. 



Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Brechites (S. G. Fcegia,) Nova Hollandise, H. and A. Adams, ii. p. .339, 



1856. 

 Description. — "F. testa valvis (obtectis) ; vagina clavata, arenulas, cal- 

 culos, et conchas dense agglutinante ; fimbria vix nulla, tubulis brevissimls, 

 subamplis, irregularibus ; disco convexo, sparsim perforate, perforationibus 

 subamplis, subpapillaribus." — Reeve. 

 Hab. — New Holland. 



[Dee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



2. F. Zebuense, Chenu, sp. 



Aspergillum Zebuense, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 3, t. 3, f. 3. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 3, f. 8, 1860. 

 Brechites Zebuensis, H. and A. Adams, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Aspergillum Philippinense, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 3, t. 4, f. 7. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve. Monog. Asp. t. 3, f. 10, 1860. 

 Brechites Philippinensis, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Description, — " E. testa valvis oblongo-ovatis, postice subexpansis ; vagina 

 arenulas agglutinante, superne subattenuata, utrinque longiturlinaliter sul- 

 cata, inferne abrupte contracta ; fimbria sub-irregulari, tubulis distinctis 

 liberis ; disco parvo, perforationibus perpaucis, tubulosis." — Reeve. 

 Hah. — Zebu, Philippines. Mus. Cuming. 



This, and the preceding, may prove to be one species ; it is distinguished 

 from F. agglutinans, principally by the much larger number of tubes on 

 its disk, and by the larger size of its tube. 



Subgenus Aettene. 



3. F. Recluziana, Chenu, sp. 



Aspergillum Recluzianum, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 4, t. 4, f. 1, la. 



Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Brechites Recluzianus, H. and A, Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Aspergillum incrassatum, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 4, t. 4, f. 2. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 4, f. 15, 1860. 

 Brechites incrassatus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Description. — "F. testa valvis oblongo-ovatis, vaginse prolatione bifurcata 

 partim indutis ; vagina mediocri, subcontorta, calculos parvos sparsim aggluti- 

 nante ; fimbria plus minus irregulariter distorta, tubulis hie illic dichotomis ; 

 disco parvo, perforationibus paucis, valdc irregularibus." — Reeve. 

 Hah.— ? 



Dr. Gray considers F. Recluziana a variety of the following species, 

 F. tuberculata; the tubuli in the latter are, however, very regular, and but 

 little spread out, showing a marked contrast to the rather irregular fringe of 

 this pecies. 



Mr. Reeve quotes F. Recluziana as a synonym of F. incrassata, in 

 which he is incorrect, for the former having a prior place and figure in Chenu's 

 Monograph, must, of course, be retained as the name of the species. 



4. F. tuberculata, Chenu, sp. 



Aspergillum tuberculatum, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 3, t. 2, f. 3. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1. 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 3, f. 16, 1860. 

 Brechites tuberculatus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Focgia (S. G. Arytene,) tuberculatum, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. 



p. 650, 1858. 

 Arytene tuberculata. Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 313, 1858. 

 Aspergillum ornatum, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. t. 4, f. 3. 



Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. i>. 1, 1845. 

 Brechites omatus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Aspergillum clavatum, Chenu, 111. Conch. Asp. p. 4, t. 4, f. 4. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 1, 1845. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 4, f. 14, 1860. 

 Brechites clavatus, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Description. — " F. testa valvis ovatis, vaginje prolatione bifurcata partim 

 indutis : vagina attenuata, subcurvata arenulas calculos que parvos aggluti- 



1831.] 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OF 



nante ; fimbria regulariter declivi, contractu, tubulis subelongatis, confertis, 

 hie illic dichotomis ; disco parvo, perforationibus paucis, valde irregulari- 

 bus." — Reeve. 

 Hah. — Moluccas. 



HUMPHREYIA. 



1. H. Strangei, A, Adams, sp. 



Aspergillum Strangei, A. Adams, Zool. Proc. p. 91, 1852. 

 Reeve, Monog. Asp. t. 2, f, 4, 1860. 

 Brechites Strangei, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 339, 1856. 

 Humphreyia Strangei, H. and A. Adams, Genera, ii. p. 650, 1858. 

 Gray, Zool. Proc. p. 317, 1858. 

 Description. — "H. testa, adhserente, fuscescente-carneo tinctu, valvis sub- 

 quadrato-ovatis, postice latioribus, subangulari-expansis ; vagina brevi, dis- 

 torta, quadrato-rotundata, ad angulas quatuor obtuse carinata ; fimbria 

 discoque lateraliter compressissime distortis, perforationibus perpaucis, ir- 

 regulater sparcis, parum tubulosis." — Reeve. 

 Hah. — Sydney Bay, Australia. 



On the Genera Panolopus, Centropyx, Aristelliger and Sphaerodactylus. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Panolopus Cope. 



Form elongate ; body fusiform, tetragonal. Anterior extremities without 

 digits ; posterior with a rudimentary one on the inner border. Scales minutely 

 parallel-keeled. Inferior palpebra squamous. Inter-parietal and fronto-pari- 

 etal distinct ; fronto- and internasal confluent, forming a nine-sided shield. 

 Supranasals, nasals, first upper labial and rostral plates confluent. Nostril 

 longitudinal, in contact with an incomplete labial suture. Dentition pleuro- 

 dont ; teeth obtuse. Auricular opening present. 



This genus, though presenting the structure of rostral plate attributed by Dr. 

 Gray to his family Sepsidas, appears to be an extreme form of the series of 

 genera of Scincidae (the Diploglossinae), which we commence with Microlepis, 

 Dijjloglossus, etc., and in which the first non-developement of extremital 

 parts is seen in Sauresia. Evesia exhibits a somewhat similar though more 

 degraded condition, and perhaps bears a like relation to certain genera of 

 smooth-scaled Scincidae Saurophthalmia. Besides the present, America 

 possesses six genera which exhibit a deprivation of one or both pairs of ex- 

 tremities or of digits above the number of three on each foot. They are dis- 

 tributed between the families of Scincida?, Chalcididse and Zonuridse. The 

 same families, with another, — the Chamtesauridas, — are represented in the 

 Old World by no less than thirty-one genera of similar kind. Twelve of 

 these are confined to Africa, ten to Australia. The fact that this arrangement 

 of diminishing series is exhibited by so many categories or families of the 

 Lacertilia, and not only by families, but by subfamilies within themselves, — 

 instead of as a great ordinal gradation toward the Ophidia, — is worthy of 

 our closest attention. 



The close analogies presented by the recent acrodont and pleurodont Stro- 

 bilosaura, and their widely divergent affinities with the orders of the past, are 

 also scarcely less suggestive. 



P. costatus, Cope. 



Posterior border of rostral plate chevron-shaped. Internasal bounded late- 

 rally by anterior supraorbital and prefrenal. Five scales in the supraorbital 

 series, bounded beneath by a smaller series of five, of which the anterior is 

 elongate, and rests on the median frenal. Postfrenal small. Suboculars two, 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



posterior elongate, its angle directed between the third and fourth (distinct) 

 upjjer labials. Of these there are seven, excluding two anterior, whose su- 

 tures are more or less obliterated. Lateral borders of frontal parallel ; the 

 posterior doubly sigmoid, medially in contact with the cuneiform interpari- 

 etal, exteriorly with the small frontoparietals. Parietals small, longer than 

 broad ; a transverse postparietal. Six inferior labials ; a large transverse 

 symphyseal ;] seven inferior and five infralabials on each side. Tympanic 

 orifice small, not lobate. Three rows of hexagonal preanal plates, the mar- 

 ginal longer than broad. Scales small, in forty-four longitudinal rows, those 

 of the sides arranged vertically and horizontally. Anterior extremity con- 

 sisting of brachium and anti-brachium, as long as the commissure of the mouth. 

 It is terminated on its inner face by a tubercle. Posterior extremity as long 

 as the distance from the rictus to the axilla, consisting of femur, tibia and 

 tarsus. Sole tuberculous, with two callosities, that on its external border 

 much the larger ; a tubercle-like spur on its inner. Tail very elongate. 

 Length of head and body to vent 3 inches 8 liues ; muzzle to auricular orifice 

 8 lines ; anterior extremity 6 lines ; posterior 9 lines ; tail? 



Color above light brown, with numerous small dark brown spots on the 

 dorsal region. Sides dark brown, darker anteriorly, where a bandlike arrange- 

 ment is assumed as far as the orbit. From the auricular opening posteriorly, 

 this is crossed by numerous blackish brown, vertical bars, with irregular light 

 posterior borders. Mentum whitish ; abdomen yellowish. 



Specimen No. 1502, Mus. Compar. Zool., Cambridge, Mass., brought from 

 near Jeremie, St. Domingo, by Dr. D. F. Weinland. 



Centropyx, Spix. 



Two species of this genus are described by Dumeril and Bibron, while Gray 

 and Wiegmann enumerate three. A fourth is here added. Anal spurs exist 

 in C. calcaratus, C. d e c o d o n and C. striatus (Wiegmann). I 

 have not seen the male C. intermedins. 



C. calc ar a tu s, Spix. t, • i i- 



Intermaxillary teeth twelve, the six median smaller. Posterior cephalic 

 plates extending over the whole breadth of the head. Dorsal scales small, 

 keeled in about forty longitudinal series. Scales of the gular fold not ex- 

 tending beyond its border. Abdominal scales in fourteen longitudinal rows. 

 Preanal scales smooth. Femoral pores twenty. 



Above olive green, with a light median dorsal line and two lateral, one ex- 

 tending from each temple to the corresponding groin. Interval between the^se 

 bands marked with a series of bjack spots. Tail and extremities spotted ; 

 posterior femoral surface marked with a black line, bordered with white. 

 Beneath white, shaded with bluish green. 

 Habitat. Brazil, Guiana. 



C. d e CO d on. Cope. . 



Intermaxillary teeth ten, one on each side of the median pair, smaller 

 Posterior cephalic plates narrower than the width of the head. Dorsal 

 scales large, in fourteen longitudinal series, becoming smaller upon the nape. 

 Scales of the gular fold acute, produced, forming a serrate border. Abdomi- 

 nal scales in fourteen longitudinal rows ; preanals smooth. Femoral pores 



seven or eight. , ,, i „i„ k„^ 



Above olive green, with short, irregular, subtransverse, black, pale-bor- 

 dered spots on the median and posterior regions, and the base ot the tail. 

 A pale band extends from the temple to the crural region : bordered above 

 anteriorly with a black band; beneath, from the axillary region posteriorly, 

 with spots of the same color. A second pale line extends from the tympanic 



1861.] 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF TI^E ACADEMY OP 



orifice to the groin, beneath which are numerous white spots. Posterior ex- 

 tremities speckled with black ; a pale line on the posterior face. 

 Habitat. Surinam. Mus. Academy Nat. Sciences ; Dr. C. Hering, donor. 



C. intermedia s, Schlegel. 



Intermaxillary teeth nine, a single external upon each side sometimes smaller. 

 Posterior cephalic plates narrower than the breadth of the head. Dorsal 

 scales small, in twenty-five to thirty-eight rows. Scales of the gular fold 

 acute, produced, forming a serrate border. Abdominal scales in fourteen 

 longitudinal rows ; the preanal strongly keeled. Femoral pores fifteen. 



Above brownish olivaceous, beneath paler. A light band extends from be- 

 neath the eye to the crural region : this is broadly bordered superiorly with 

 brown, which becomes posteriorly broken into transverse bars. These are finally 

 almost in contact dorsally, and are continued upon the median line of the tail. 

 Upon the nape are indications of three median light streaks. From the axil- 

 lary region extends a broad brown band, which is finally broken up. Upon 

 the base of the tail and for a short distance anterior to the groin, a second 

 pale line may be observed. Sides, belly and inferior surface of the extremi- 

 ties immaculate. Size similar to that of the preceding species, the length 

 from muzzle to vent being 3 inches 6 lines. 



Habitat. Barbadoes. Mus. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



I cannot arrive at any greater certainty than did Wiegmann as to whether 

 the present species — his C. viltatus — is identical with that called by Gray (from 

 Schlegel) C. intermedius. He says, (Herpet. Mexic, 26,) " . . didici, 

 eandem speciem (.s« quid ex brevissimis Angli diagnosibiis percipere licet) a eel. 

 Schlegel C. in t e r m e diam appelari, quo nomine nullum potest excogitare 

 melius." I have followed Wiegmann in regarding them as identical. 



C. striatus, Gray. 



. Intermaxillary teeth nine, the median five smaller than the external two 

 upon each side. Posterior cephalic plates narrower than the temporal diameter 

 of the head. Dorsal scales large, in " from seventeen to twenty-five rows." (?) 

 Scales of the gular fold acuminate, forming a serrate margin. Abdominal 

 scales " in twelve rows," (Gray.) Praeanal scales? Femoral pores as in C. 

 calcaratus? 



Green olivaceous above, with two yellowish lines upon each side, which em- 

 brace a brown or black band : the superior sometimes bordered with black; 

 the sides sometimes spotted. Beneath unicolor. 



Habitat. Guiana. 



Akistelliger, Cope. 



Digits slender at the base, free, dilated at tjie extremity and furnished with 

 a single row of transverse plates beneath. Ultimate joint of all free, elongate, 

 compressed, furnished with a claw, that of the thumb ensheathed. Tail elon- 

 gate, cylindrical, the squamation minute, verticillate. Femoral and praeanal 

 pores none. Pupil elliptic ; superior eyelid furnished with a hornlike process. 

 Sides simple. 



This genus is related to Theconyx, Gray and Pentadactylus, Gray, but both 

 of these possess praeanal or femoral pores ; also in the former the last digital 

 joint is scarcely free. The form is in fact hemidactyl, as Dr. Hallowell has 

 indicated. The hornlike process above the eye, appears to be peculiar to it 

 and to certain species of Sphaerodactylus. 



A. praesignis. 



Hemidactylus prcesignis, Hallow., Proc. A. N. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 222, 

 Dr. Hallowell's statement that the thumbs of this species are destitute of 

 claws is erroneous ; they are sheathed beneath a dorsal hood. The specimens 

 from which the description was taken were either in a peculiar stage of meta- 

 chrosis, or had been stained by impure spirits. The following is a true ac- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



count of the color: — Above light yellowish brown, with a series of five sub- 

 quadrate ochraceous dorsal spots. Top of the head and two bands converging 

 posteriorly from the superior borders of the orbits, with variations upon the 

 side of the body and neck, of the same ochraceous tint. In the female the 

 dorsal spots are connected by dark ashy reticulations ; the dark shade is also 

 prevalent above each axilla, and as a band extending posterior to the orbit. 

 Beneath pale, unicolor. 



This species is not mentioned by Mr. Gosse in his interesting volume on 

 Jamaica; it cannot, however, be uncommon in the island. The locality, Nica- 

 ragua, assigned by Dr. Hallowell at p. 480 of these Proceedings for 1860, is 

 scarcely likely to prove a correct one. 



A. 1 ar, Cope. 



Size rather large, head broad, massive. Tail to vent equal to one and one-half 

 times the length of the head and body to vent. Anterior mandibular teeth longer 

 than the median. Superior labials eight, the last beneath the orbit, succeeded 

 by but one supplementary. Inferior eight, the posterior small. Symphyseal 

 plate large, slightly truncate, bordered beneath the labials on each side by a 

 large diagonal shield, which is the first of a diminishing series of four. Gu- 

 lar and dorsal regions granulated, the latter very coarsely; inferior faces of 

 the extremities and thoracic and abdominal regions scaled in about thirty- 

 two longitudinal series upon the latter. About twenty-one lamellaj beneath 

 the penultimate posterior digit. Auricular opening large, the distance from 

 its posterior border to that of the orbit equal to the breadth between the orbits. 



Color above grey, with numerous brown spots, especially upon the scapular 

 and ischiadic regions. Crown and front dark; labial region varied. An 

 indistinct brown band extends posteriorly from the oibit, bordered below by 

 a pale one, not more visible. 



Length from muzzle to vent 5 inches ; from vent to end of tail 7 inches 9 

 lines. 



Discovered near Jeremie, Hayti, by Dr. Weinland. Lent to the author by 

 Prof. Louis Agassiz, Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. (No. 1504.) 



This species attains a size equal to that of any Thccadactylus rapicaudus 

 which I have seen. It considerably exceeds the T. p r a e s ig n i s. The pro- 

 portions of the teeth, the number of subdigital lamellae, as well as the colora- 

 tion, serve also to distinguish it from the latter. 



SPH.iERODACTYLUS, Cuvicr. 



Eleven species of this genus are known to me through examination of speci- 

 mens, and one (S. fantasticus) from the description of Dumeril and 

 Bibron. An additional specie? (S. n i g r o p u n c t a t u s) has been described 

 by Dr. Gray, and a fourteenth (S. lineolatus) i3 said to have been pub- 

 lished. The last two are So'ith American : the description of the first is too 

 imperfect to permit its identification : tliat of the last is quoted from Lichten- 

 stein and Von Marten's Nomenclator Reptilium Mus. Zool. Berolin.,— a work 

 which Dr. Giinther calls "printed, but not published." 



Cuvier (Regne Animal) states that these animals possess retractile^ claws :. 

 the same statement is made by Dr. Gray in his Synopsis of Reptiles, in Grif- 

 fith's edition of the same work. .Mr. Gosse informs us that the S. r i c h ar d- 

 sonii protrudes at will a sheathed claw from the inner side of the digital 

 pallet, (Nat. Soj. in Jamaica, p. 255.) Dumeril and Bibron assert (vol. iii., p» 

 401, 1836) that claws are wanting, which is confirmed by a similar statement 

 made by Dr. Gray in the Catalogue of Lizards in the British Museum. MM. 

 Cocteau and Bibron, in De la Sagra's Cuba, express the following opinion : — 

 " On a dit qu'ils etaient completement ptives d'ongles ; cependant un examen 

 attentif de Textremite des doigts, fait voir que la derniere phalange est revetue 

 d'un ecaille sur laquelle se retrouve en relief la forme d'un ongle crochu dont 



1861.] 33 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



les lames, ordinairement repliees sur elles memes, se seraient, pour ainsi dire, 

 ecartiis I'une de I'autre, et etalces ici en une sorte depallette. C'est du moins, 

 la disposition que nous avons observee sur nos deux especes de Cuba." From 

 my own observations I arrive at tlie conclusion, that all the species possess 

 claws, which are directed obliquely inward between superior and inferior ex- 

 pansions of the digital epidermis: and that the ordinary corneous sheath (z. e., 

 "les lames ordinairement repliees sur elles memes") exists, and cannot be said 

 to be represented by the laminte of the palk't. 



Authors generally state, that the iris does not contract the orifice of the 

 pupil, and this is reasonably to be inferred from an examination of specimens 

 in alcohol. Mr. Gosse, however, relates that the pupil of S. richardsonii 

 became constricted when exposed to the sunlight ; the only specimen of S. 

 a 1 o p e X which I have seen (in alcohol) exhibits this form of pupil in a moderate 

 degree 



Dr. Giinther has observed a spine upon the superior border of the eyelid in 

 S. ra a c r o 1 e p i s. I have not been able to find other notice of this peculi- 

 arity. It appears to be almost a generic character, being doubtfully wanting'^ 

 inS. richardsonii only. 



The following synopsis will, perhaps, improve the state of knowledge re- 

 garding the forms of this genus : 



I, Dorsal scales rounded, smooth, small. 

 S. sput at or, Cuv. 



Labial plates t . Light brown, (greenish upon the dorsal region in life, 



according to llacLeay,) with ten broad, transverse, brown bands, paler medi- 

 ally, of which three are upon the body. Two light lines upon the front, which 

 converge and unite upon the muzzle. Beneath gray. Tail shorter than the 

 body. 



Ilab. Cuba, Mus. Washington, Philadelphia. 



S. c i n e r e u s, MacLeay. 



? S. punctatissimus, Dum. et Bibr. 

 5 

 Labial plates -j . Tail longer than the body. Light gray rufous above, 



unicolor or punctulated with white, often most abundantly upon the head, A 

 little paler beneath, I cannot distinguish specifically Cuban and Haytian in- 

 dividuals. 



Mus. Philadelphia, Washington, Cambridge. 



II. Dorsal scales flat, keeled, 

 ■^Lateral dorsal scales similar to the median, . 

 a. Dorsal scales smaller than the ventral, 

 I. Inferior labials (anterior to posterior border of orbit) five; muzzle less acute. 



S. a r g u s, Gosse. 



Above purplish brown, sparsely dotted with white ocelli, which have dark 

 borders. They are sometimes arranged in transverse series, sometimes longi- 

 tudinally confluent on the head, forming bands, sometimes almost entirely 

 wanting on the body or tail. Dorsal scales of medium size, nearly similar to 

 those ofS. oxyrhinus; irregular series of them lighter than others, form- 

 ing an indistinct pattern of anguUted lines. 



jffab. Jamaica. Mus. Washington, Philadelphia. 



* Its absence in the plate 24, fig. 30, Rept. U. S, and Mex. Bound. Surv. of S. no ta- 

 lus, is an omission of the artist. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 499 



S. millepunctatus, Hallowell. 



Dorsal scales very minute;* occipital granular; frontal keeled. Muzzle 

 rather short. Auricular orifice smaller than digital expansion. Light brown, 

 spotted with darker brown ; a post axillary, a loreal, two postocular and a 

 median occipital brown line, A transverse crural spot, brown bordered pos- 

 teriorly with white. 



Hab. Nicaragua. JIus. Philadelphia, Washington. 



S. c as i c lu s, Cope. 



Dorsal scales very minute ; occipital granular, frontal keeled. Supranasal 

 plates as long as broad. Muzzle elongate. Auricular aperture larger than digital 

 pallet. Dark brown rufous, with three distant, transverse, dorsal blotches, 

 bordered with lighter ; the anterior or interscapular indistinct. A dark 

 spot upon the nape, bounded by two light dots. Numerous short longitudinal 

 white lines upon the dorsal and lateral regions; none upon the head. A 

 loreal and three postocular dark lines. Beneath whitish, chin and sides of 

 neck punctulated with rufous. 



Hab. Region of the Truando, New Granada. Mus. Washington. 



bb. Inferior labials (anterior to posterior border of orbit) six ; muzzle more 



acute. 

 S. oxyrhinus, Gosse. 



Muzzle acute, depressed ; supranasals in contact. Above light brown, with 

 numerous conspicuous black dots (sometimes confluent, according to Mr. 

 Gosse) ; two light dots, bordered with black, at the base of tail. Belly light 

 brown, throat dotted. Tail long. Pupil round. 

 Hab. Jamaica. Mus. Washington. 



S. a 1 o p e X, Cope. 



Muzzle very acnte, profile sloping regularly from the frontal region. Supra- 

 nasal plates separated. Pupil apparently elliptic. Tail much longer than body. 

 Dorsal scales smaller than in oxyrhinus. Above rufous gray, closely ver- 

 miculated with longitudinal rufous lines ; tail and extremities spotted with 

 the same. Beneath pale brownish, faintly vermiculated with rufous brown on 

 the gular region and the sides of the neck ; many of the abdominal and femoral 

 plates margined with the same. 



Hab. Near Jeremie, Hayti. Mus. Cambridge. 



aa. Dorsal scales equal to the ventral. 



b. Occipito-nuchal scales larger than tliose on the muzzle; palpebral spine 



absent or rudimentary. 



S. richardsonii. Gray. 



Cranial and gular scales tuberculiform. Supranasal plates narrow ; sym- 

 physeal broad posteriorly, bordered by three scales. Dorsal scales in about 

 eighteen rows, their keels very strong. Pupil slightly elliptic, (Gosse.) Color, 

 in spirits, light brown, with seven narrow, irregular, brown cross bands, bor- 

 dered behind with paler ; these are the outlines of broad bands, which are, in 

 life, according to Mr. Gosse, reddish lilac. These are succeeded by darker 

 bands on the tail, which become black at its extremity. Limbs annulated. 

 A narrow cross band on the nape, two on the occiput. A light curved frontal 

 cross band ; a similar one anterior to the eye, one posterior, one infero-posterior 

 to it ; a transverse postfrontal band. These headbands are bright yellow in 

 life, (Mr. Gosse.) 



Hab. Jamaica, Mus. Washington. 



* Dr. Hallowell's statement, Pr. A. N. S., 1860, p. 480, that the ventral scales are 

 keeled, appears to be incorrect. 



1861.] 




500 PROCEEPINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



hh. Occipito-nuchal scales smaller than those on the muzzle; palpebral spine 



distinct, 

 c. Gular scales keeled. 

 S. maerolepis, Giinther. 



Muzzle short, rostral and supranasal plates moderate, the latter not in con- 

 tact. Head scales all keeled ; interaxillary dorsal scales in twenty rows. Labial 



plates 7 J symphyseal narrowed posteriorly. ^ Above brown, many of the 

 scales tipped with darker; sometimes a few black spots on the median line. 

 An irregular median rostral streak, which subdivides anterior to the orbits; 

 the resulting two diverge on the occiput and unite on the nape, enclosing an 

 elongate black subgemraiform spot. The modifications of this pattern are 

 various. A postocular streak extending nearly to the shoulder, and an infe- 

 rior line exetnding to the auricular opening. Chin vermiculated with black ; 

 tail speckled above and below. 5'^our longitudinal lines broken into spots ; 

 an interscapular spot with two white in it; a black nuchal spot, connected or 

 not with a longitudinal line on each side, which unite or not on the muzzle, 

 and which are in contact or not with a round median occipital spot. Chin not 

 spotted. Both sexes whitish beneath. 



Hab. Island St. Thomas. Mus. Philadelphia, Washington. 



cc. Galar scales smooth. 

 S. n 1 a t u s, Baird. 



Muzzle rather short ; supranasal plates not in contact ; symphyseal broad 

 4 

 posteriorly. Labials 7 ; frontal scales keeled, dorsal interaxillary in from 



seventeen to twenty-two rows. Tail longer than body. Color reddish brown, 

 with faint darker markings on the back, indicating longitudinal streaks. A 

 median longitudinal line upon the head, which expands posteriorly ; a super- 

 ciliary, three postocular and a loreal line ; the first mentioned extend for a 

 greater or less distance posteriorly ; in some specimens (among them the types) 

 these lines are broken into small spots. 



Ilab. Key West, Florida; New Providence L, Bahamas ; Cuba. Mus. Phila- 

 delphia, Washington, Salem, Mass. 



S. g i 1 V i t r q n e s. Cope. 



Muzzle short ; supranasal plates not in contact ; symphyseal narrow behind. 

 3 

 Labials -n ; frontal scales keeled ; dorsal interaxillary in about sixteen rows. 



Color dark brown above, with a yellow collar just anterior to the interscapular 

 region. Head darker, marked with narrow lines as follow ; one median, one 

 superciliary, one loreal, two postauricular : beneath a little paler. 

 Hab. Jamaica. Mus. Philadelphia. 



**Lateral dorsal scales larger than the median, keeled. 



S. fan t asti cu s, Cuv. 

 3 



Muzzle short ; labials 3 ; rostral bordered posteriorly by four scales ; nasal 

 plate lateral; symphyseal rhombic. Color yellowish, the head black, vermicu- 

 lated with white lines. 



Ilab. Martinique. 



S. anthracinus, Cope. 



Size large, (head and body 1 inch 9 lines;) muzzle elongate acute ; labials 

 four above, two large and three small below ; supranasal plates small, supe- 

 rior; frontal scales keeled; the dorsal strongly keeled, rounded, in ten rows 

 on each side, extending for a considerable distance on the tail. Gular scales 

 smooth. Color black, the large dorsal scales tinged with blue. 



Ilab. Mexico. Mus. Philadelphia. 



[Dee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Synopsis of the SILLAGINOIOS. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



Family SILLAGINOID.E RichardsoQ. 

 Synonymy. 

 Sillaginidae Richardson, Report of 15th Meeting B. A. A. S , 1846, p. 223. 

 Gobioides part. Ciwier, Regne Animal, ed. i. 

 Pei'coides part. Cuvier. 

 Sillagoidei Bleeker. 



SciaBnoidei (Sillaginiformes) part. Bleeker. 

 Trachinoidae part. Gunlher. 



The body is elongated and little compressed, highest under the first dorsal 

 fin, and thence nearly uniformly and slowly attenuated towards the caudal 

 peduncle, which is moderately slender. Scales of moderate or small size ; 

 their external margins are generally rounded and pectinated. Lateral line 

 simple, with a slight sigmoidal flexure and continued to the base of the caudal 

 fin, or even slightly between its median rays. Head oblong or elongated, 

 conical in profile, gradually decreasing in width above to the horizontally 

 rounded snout, and nearly plane below. Forehead flattened or little convex. 

 Eyes submedian. Nostrils double, approximated and in front of the eyes. 

 Suborbital bones not articulated with the preoperculum. Preorbital bone 

 very large, expanded over the side in front of eye, and entirely concealing the 

 ends of the maxillar}"- bones. A ridge is continued obliquely from the posterior 

 suborbitals on the preorbital. Preoperculum much longer than high, with a 

 prominent longitudinal fold, which, above the inferior horizontal border es- 

 pecially, is separated by a deep channel from the incurved portion which 

 forms the inferior flattened surface of the head. Operculum short and thin. 

 Interoperculum and suboperculum normally developed. Operculum with a 

 slight crest ending in a spine. Mouth small and terminal ; the periphery of 

 each jaw more or less semi-elliptical. Intermaxillary bones little protractile 

 downwards, with their ascending and marginal branches nearly equally de- 

 veloped. Supramaxillaries widest at their free ends and forming part of the 

 arcade of the mouth. Teeth on the jaws and the front of the vomer. Bran- 

 chiostegal membrane free, extending under the throat, but emarginated behind, 

 and concealed under the opercular apparatus. Branchiostegal rays six on 

 each side. Pseudobranchiae present. Dorsal fins two ; the first short ; the 

 second elongated and equal to or little larger than the anal, with which it is 

 coterminal. Anal fin with two (or one) small spines. Caudal fin emarginated, 

 with its lobes rounded. Pectoral fins normally inserted on the humeral cinc- 

 ture, with the lower rays branched. Ventral fins thoracic, with one spine and 

 five branched rays. The fins have few or no scales. 



The skull is convex below, and has muciferous cavities like that of a Sciae- 

 noid. The pubic bones are well developed and separated from each other be- 

 fore by a sinus between the pedicles, by which they are suspended to the cora- 

 coid bones. There are thirty-four to forty-three vertebrae, of which twelve to 

 sixteen are costiferous. The stomach is ca;cal ; the pyloric caeca few (2-5). 



The air bladder is simple. The ovaries are generally united nearly in a 

 single mass. 



This family is distinguished from all others by the combination of an elong- 

 ated body, and elongated and nearly equal second dorsal and anal fins, with 

 an oblong or elongated cavernous head, whose preorbital bones are veiy large, 

 and whose preoperculum is bent inwards below, covering the inferior surface of 

 the head, while a crest or fold separated by a deep groove assumes the aspect 

 of the usual inferior margin. 



It manifests more or less resemblance to several families, but its true re- 

 lationship is rather diflScult to be decided, 



1861.] 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



By its cavernous skull, it suggests the Sciaenoids and the Acerince among 

 the Percoids, but from both, it is at once separated by the long anal fin which 

 is nearly equal to the dorsal, and by other morphological and anatomical 

 characters, which the description of the family given above will at once sug- 

 gest. 



Among the Percoids, it most resembles the species usually known under the 

 name of Acerina schraitzer* but as will be readily learned ou comparison, the 

 resemblance is simply analogical. 



Among the Scisenoids, the most analogous forms appear to be the genera 

 Pachypops of Gill, and Pachyurus of Agassiz, or Lcpipterus of Cuvier. The 

 squamation of the fins, characteristic of the Scitenoids, in addition to the short- 

 ness of the anal fin of those genera, and the peculiarly dense squamation of 

 the caudal fin of Pachyurus^ evidently show that they are true Sciaenoids and 

 exclude the entertainment of any strict or close afBnity to the Sillaginoids. 



From the Trachinoids and the allied forms with which the family has been 

 associated by Dr. Giinther, it is at once separated by the form and structure 

 of the head. 



Originally referred by Cuvier to the family of Gobioides, it was subsequently 

 transferred to the division of the Percoides with thoracic ventrals, less than 

 seven branchiostegal rays, and provided with two dorsal fins. The only other 

 genus referred to that section was Trichodon. 



Sir John Richardson, in his Report on the Fishes of the Chinese and Japan- 

 ese waters, framed for it a new family, but subsequently placed it in his family 

 of Uranoscopidje. 



Dr. Bleeker also, at one time, appears to have regarded the family as valid, 

 and named it Sillagoidei. In his recent classification, he has removed it to 

 the family of Sciaenoids, and thus arranged it : 



Familia 84. SCI^NOIDEI— SCI.^NINI Bp. 



Subfamilia 1. ACERIN^FORMES. 

 Gen. Acerina Cuv., Coptodon Gervais. 

 Subfamilia 2. SILLAGINIFORMES. 

 Gen. SiLLAGO Cuv., Sillaginichthys Blkr., Aspeo Cuv. 

 Subfamilia 3. SCI^NIFORMES. 

 Gen. All Sciaenoids of Giinther, except Conodon and Eleginus, the former of 

 which is a Pristipomatoid and the latter a Notothenioid. 

 The characters which distinguish the Sillaginoidae from the Sciaenoids have 

 been previously enumerated. The differences existing between them and 

 Aspro are still more decided. As previously remarked, the resemblance to 

 Acerina is much greater. The genus Coptodon is not at all related to Acerina, 

 but is a synonyme of Tilapia, the type of which is closely allied, if not identi- 

 cal with the Chromis niloticus of Cuvier. f 



SILLAGO, Cuv. 



Synonymy . 

 Sillago Cuv., Regne Animal, ed. i., vol. ii., p. 258, 1817. 



" Cuv. et Val., Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, vol. iii., p. 398. 



*The Acerina schraitzer appears to be the type of a distinct genus, to which the name 

 of Leptoperca may be given. The genus differs from the restricted Acerina by the more 

 slender body and head, and longer dorsal and anal fins. 



t The name of Chromis cannot be retained for the C. nilolims, as the type of that 

 genus IS the Sparuschromis of Linne, (see Mem. du Museum d'Hist. Nat., tome i, p. 353, 

 abb.) The name of Tilapin, though proposed by Sir Andrew Smith, under an erro- 

 neous view of Its affinities, may be then accepted. The reference by Gervais of a species 

 of the gefius to Aceiina, as was originally the case, is, to use the mildest expression, sin- 

 gular. '^ 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Atherina sp. ForspaUs. 

 Platycephalus sp. Block, Schnnder. 

 Sciena sp. Block, Sch/ieider. 



Diagnosis. — Dentes velutini. Pinna dorsalis prima spinis 11(12); secunda 

 et analis subaequales. Squamae medlocres, serie longicudinali 50 — 9U. 



Body elongated and slightly compressed, rounded and widest on the back, 

 and more or le?s plane below. Scales on the side of moderate size, (50 — 90.) 

 Head elongated-conical, compressed, gradually and nearly uniformly narrowed 

 to the snout, which is horizontally rounded ; eyes moderate or large and sub- 

 median. Mouth small, the periphery of the jaws semi-oval; jaws subequal, or 

 lower shortest. First dorsal fin decreasing in a straight or convex line from the 

 front or anterior rays, and with eleven, rarely twelve, spines. Anal fin with two 

 slender spines, nearly equal to the second dorsal in extent and number of rays. 

 (D. I. 1"? — 23, A II. 15 — 23.) Caudal fins emarginated. Ventral fins with the 

 spine sometimes cartilaginous. 



Type. Sillago gihama, Riippell. 



St/n. — Sillagd acuta Cuv. 



Sillago is now restricted to the species having similar forms, scales of moderate 

 size and nearly equal dorsal and anal fins ; and it consequently excludes some 

 species that have been referred to it by previous naturalists, the Sillajojiunclatus 

 being taken as the type of one, and S. domina as ihat of another genus. Even in 

 the genus as now restricted, there are more considerable variations than are often 

 found in the same genus. While the ventral spine is slender, and, as usual, 

 osseous in most species, it is in one thick and cartilaginous. Again, some 

 species have cycloid scales in the cheek and forehead, while others have ctenoid. 

 The preoperculum is almost entire in some, while in others it is ciliated. As 

 these differences do not, however, appear to be supported by others, they per- 

 haps can scarcely be regarded as generic, and the species so distinguished have 

 been therefore retained in the same genus. 



The following analytical table will exhibit the range of variation in the 

 genus, but, perhaps, is artificial, and may not show the affinities of all. 



I. Anal rays I.— II. 19—23. 



A. Ventral spine slender and osseous. 



a. Cheek and interocular scales cycloid. 



b. Scales large, 50—55 along lateral line. • S. macralepis. 

 bb. Scales moderate, 70 — 75 along lateral line. 

 Rows above lateral line 4, D.XL, I., 20, 21, A. I. 

 II. 22, 23. 

 Body and fins immaculate. S. sihama.^ 



Body immaculate ; second dorsal spotted. S. malabarica. 



Rows above lateral line 5, 6. D. XI. I. A. I. II. 

 19—21. 

 Body immaculate; dorsal spotted between rays. S. bassensis. 

 Back spotted. First dorsal brownish above, 

 dotted below; second margined with 

 brown, and with two longitudinal vittae ; 

 caudal with three transverse orange vitts. S. maculata. 

 aa. Cheek and interocular scales ctenoid. 



Scales of lateral line 70—75 ; above three rows. S. japonica. _ 

 Scales of lateral line 82—86 ; above seven rows. S. parvisquamis. 

 A \. Ventral spine thick and cartilaginous, united with the 



first ventral ray. S. chondropus. 



II. Anal rays II. 15, 16 (18 Cur. et. Val.) 



First dorsal marbled with blackish ; second with four or 



or fire rows of oblong spots. S. ciliata. 



1861.] 




504 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



The following enumeration gives the synonyms of each species, the work in 

 which it was first described, and the habitat. 



It is proper to remark that the Sillago sihama and S. malabarica have been 

 united by Dr. Giinther under the name of S. sihama, and that *S'. bassensis and 

 S. maculata have been also regarded as identical, and described under the latter 

 name. Dr. Giinther may be correct in his views, but as he has given no reasons 

 to support them, and as there are well marked differences between those forms, 

 which are generally specific, we prefer, with previous naturalists, to retain them 

 as distinct, until it is demonstrated that their variations are of less value in 

 this group than in most others. Dr. Giinther's descriptions are also as restric- 

 tive as those of others, that of Sillago sihama applying to the one here retained 

 as such, and the one of S. macidata rather to *S^. bassensis. 



1. Sillago macrolepis, Bleeker. 



Sillago macrolepis Bleeker, Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch 

 ladie, vol. xvii. p. 166. 

 Habitat. — Seas of Batavia and Bali. 



2. Sillago Japonic.^., Temminck et Schlegel. 



Sillago Japonica Temm. ani Schlegel, Fauna Japonica Pisces, p. 33, pi. x. 

 fig. 1. 

 Habitat. — Japanese and Moluccan seas. 



3. Sillago sihama, Riippell. 



Atherina sihama Forskal, Descriptiones Animalium, &c., p. YO. 

 Platycephalus sihama BLoch, Systema Ichthyologiee, Schneid. ed., p. 60. 

 Sillago sihama Rilppell, Atlas zur der Reise im Nordl. Africa, Fische, p. 9, 



taf. 3, fig. 1. 

 Sillago erythraea Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 409. 

 Habitat. — Red Sea. 



4. Sillago malabahica. Cantor. 



Sciaena malabarica Bloch, Systema Ichthyologicse, Schneid. ed., p. 81, pi. 



19. 

 Soring Russell, Desc. and Fig. of Fishes of Coromandel, torn. 113. 

 Sillago acuta Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 400. 

 Habitat. — East Indian and Chinese seas. 



5. Sillago maculata, Quoy and Gaimard. 



Sillago maculata Quog and Gaimard, Voyage de Freycinet, Zoologie, p. 261 

 pi. 53, fig. 2. 

 Habitat. — East Indian and Australian seas. 



6. Sillago bassensis, Cuv. et Val. 



Sillago bassensis Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 412. 

 Habitat.— Co^sis of South Eastern Australia. 



7. Sillago parvisquamis. Gill. 

 Habitat. — Japanese seas. 



8. Sillago chosduopcs, Bleeker. 



Sillago chondropus Bleeker, Verhand. von bet Bataav. Genoots, chap. deel. 

 xxii. Percoiden, p. 61. 

 Habitat. — Molluscan and Japanese seas. 



9. Sillago ciliata, Cuv. et. Val. 



Sillago ciliata Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. iii. p. 415. 

 Habitat. — Australian seas. 



SILLAGINODES, Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Silago sp. Cuv. et Val., Giinther. 



Diagnosis. — Dentes velutini. Pinna dorsalis prima postice oblique recta vel 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



decurvata, spinis 12 ; secuada p. anali majori, radiis I. 26. Squamre minimas, 

 serie longitudinali 170 plus minusve. 



Body elongated and scarcely compressed, with the back as well as the ab- 

 domen more or less rounded. Scales of the body very small, there being 170 

 in a longitudinal row in the typical species. Head elongated-conical, com- 

 pressed, gradually and nearly uniformly decreasing in width to the snout; eyes 

 moderate and submedian. Mouth small; the periphery of each jaw semi-oval ; 

 jaws subequal, or lower shortest. First dorsal fin declining from the an- 

 terior portion in a straight or convex line, and with twelve spines. Second 

 dorsal longer, and with more rays than the anal ([. 26.) Anal fin with one 

 slender spine, and about twenty-two branched rays. Caudal fin emarginated. 

 Ventral fins with a slender spine. 



Type. Sillaginodes punctatus, Gill. 



The most apparent distinctive characters of this genus are the small size of 

 the scales, and the inequality, in size and number of the rays, of the second 

 dorsal and anal fins. Although the second dorsal fin of the typical Sillagines 

 is sometimes longer than the anal fin, the number of its rays is always the same 

 or nearly so, and only in the Sillago ciliata is the dorsal longer than the anal. 

 One species is known. 



Sillaginodes punctatus, Gill. 



Sillago punctata Guv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn. iii. p. 413. 



Habitat. — Australia. 



SILLAGINOPSIS, Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Sillago sp. Cuv. et Val., Giinthcr. 



Diagnosis. — Denies velutini, serie externa majores. Pinna dorsalis anterior 

 spinis 9, spina secunda elongata, postice 'oblique incurvata. 



Body elongated and subcylindrical. Scales small. Head elongated, depressed 

 and declining towards the snout in a nearly straight line ; its width gradually 

 becomes less towards the nostrils, and thence the snout is more attenuated and 

 rounded at its end ; eyes very small and placed in the anterior half of the head. 

 Mouth small. Lower jaws shorter than the upper. Teeth of the jaws pluri- 

 seral, larger in the external row. Spinous dorsal fin commencing above the 

 pectorals, with nine rays, the second of which is much elongated ; second dor- 

 sal elongated, with its height gradually decreasing. Anal fin shorter than the 

 soft dorsal, and nearly co-terminal with it. Caudal fin emarginated. Ventral 

 fins with a slender spine. 



Type. Sillaginopsis domina, Gill. 



Syn. — Sillago domina Cuv. et Val. 



This genus is very distinct from either Sillago or Sillaginodes, and is distin- 

 guished from both by the depressed head, the small eyes, the larger outer row 

 of teeth, and the form of its first dorsal fin. 



A single species is known. 



Sillaginopsis domina Gill. 



Sillago domina Ciiv. et Val. Hist. Nat. des Poissons, torn, iii, p. 415, pi. 69. 

 Habitat. — Bay of Bengal and East Indian Archipelago. 



Description of a new species of SILLAGO, 



Sillago pakvisquamis Gill. 



The body is slender and highest under the first dorsal fin, the height there 

 equalling an eighth (12-100) of the total length ; under the second, it gradu- 

 ally diminishes, and the height of the constricted caudal peduncle is only a 

 twentieth (5-100). The greatest width nearly equals a tenth of the length; 

 behind, it becomes regularly compressed to the caudal fin. 



1861.] 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The head has the same form as in the typical species ; the curvature above is 

 very slight. Its length forms less than' a quarter (23-100) of the total; the 

 length of the snout or interval between the symphisis of the upper jaw and the 

 eye exceeds an eleventh (.9^-100) of the sam'e ; that of the exposed operculum, 

 4-100. The height at the occiput equals a ninth (11-100) of the total length, 

 or nearly half (11-23) of the head's; the width is much less than the height 

 (9i]-100), and regularly diminishes towards the snout, where it equals a half of 

 the greatest. The interorbital area is perfectly flat, and its width exceeds the 

 length of the operculum (-04^). 



The eyes are nearly central and oval ; the long diameter is contained more 

 than eighteen times in the total (.05^) or four times in the head's; the short di- 

 ameter twenty-five times (4.100) ia the former and nearly six times in the 

 latter. 



The scales on the crown and forehead, as well as on the cheeks and opercula, 

 are ctenoid. 



The mouth is very small; the periphery of each jaw semi-elliptical.; the 

 lower jaw is received within the band of teeth of the upper. 



The teeth are uniform, and in a moderately broad band on each jaw and on 

 the vomer. 



The first dorsal fin commences at the end of the third tenth of the total length ; 

 its second and third spines are longest and nearly equal an eighth of the total 

 length (8-100); the first and fifth are nearly equal ; the outline thence declines 

 with a slight curve to the twelfth. 



The second dorsal fin regularly diminishes in height from front to rear; the 

 second or first branched ray equals a tenth (10-100) and the penultimate a 

 twenty-second (4J-100) of the total length. 



The anal fin commences before the middle of the total length, and beneath 

 the second or third ray of the second dorsal, and is coterminal with that fin ; 

 its two spines are very slender. 



The caudal fin is slightly emarginated and its lobes rounded; the median 

 rays form a ninth (11-100) of the total length; the longest nearly equal a 

 seventh (14-100) of the same. 



The pectoral fins are nearly equal in length to an eighth (13-100) of the 

 total. 



The ventral fins are inserted immediately behind the bases of the pectorals ; 

 the first and second branched rays are equally long, and exceed an eighth 

 (12-100) of the fish's length. The spine is slender and bony. 



The number and character of the rays of the respective fins are indicated in 

 the following formula : 



D. XII. I. 22. A. II. 23. C. 10, 1, 8, 7, 1, 9, P. 2, 14. V. I, 5. 



The scales are arranged in very oblique rows, the row from the first ray of 

 the second dtrsal ending nearly at the base of the twelfth or thirteenth anal 

 one. The e.\_)osed parts are nearly twice as high as wide ; there are from eighty- 

 two to eighty-six along the lateral line ; between that line and the dorsal fin 

 there are seven rows. All are ctenoid. 



The color of the body and head is nearly uniform, tinged with purple above 

 the lateral line and more silvery beneath. The first dorsal fin is very minutely 

 punctulated, especially near the margin and the front of each spine. The rays 

 of the second dorsal are each banded with two or three dark bars, which en- 

 croach on the membrane in front. The margin of the caudal is lighter. The 

 pectoral and ventral fins are immaculate. 



Total length, 6.3-lOths 100 



Body — Greatest height 12 



Least height - 5 



Width 9J 



Head— Length 23 



Length of operculum 4 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



Length of snout 9J 



Diameter of orbit 5^ 



Width between eyes 4 



Height at occiput 11 



Width at occiput 90 



Dorsal — Distance from snout 30 



Height of second spine 13 



Height of second dorsal's second ray 10 



Height of second dorsal's penultimate ray 4^ 



Aual — Distance from sncut 48 



Caudal — Length of median rays 11 



Length of longest rays 14 



Pectoral — Length 13 



Ventral— Length 12 



This species is most nearly allied to the Sillaijo Japonica, which is an inhabi- 

 tant of the same geographical section, but it is amply distinguished from that 

 species by the more slender and elongated form, the smaller size of the scales, 

 and especially the number of rows above the lateral line, the color and the 

 rows of spots or bars whicli cross the front of the rays of the second dorsal fin, 

 Sillago Japonica \x&3 a\so eleven dorsal spines, while the specimen of S. par- 

 visquamis here described has twelve. 



It best agrees with SiUaf/o macidata and S. hassensis in the number of rows of 

 scales between the lateral line and dorsal, but the number is even greater than 

 in those species in which also there are only about seventy scales on the lateral 

 line, and five or six rows above. The scales of the cheeks are also cycloid and 

 not ctenoid as in the present. 



Finally, Sillago parvisquamis is distinguished among all the representatives of 

 the genus as now restricted by the small size of the scales, and, if constant, by 

 the number of dorsal spines, it having twelve, like the Sillaginodes punctatus, 

 while all others have eleven. 



A single specimen, somewhat damaged, is in a small collection of fishes made 

 by Dr. D. B. Simmons, at Kanagawa. It is preserved in the museum of Mr. 

 Brevoort, to whom I am indebted for the privilege of describing it. 



Synopsis of the CH^ENICHTHYOIDS. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



Family CH^NICHTHYOID^ Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Gobiidse part. Richardson. 

 Callionynioidei part. Bheker. 

 Blennioidei (Comephoriformes part.) Bheher. 

 Trachinida; (Traehinina part) Gunther, 1860. 

 Trachinidae (Xototheniina part.) Giinther, 1861'. 



Acanthopteri/ffii corpora elon^ato nudo, subcylindrico buccis inermibus, capita 

 occipite subplano, rostra elongato spatuliforme, ore terminale, magno ; palate 

 laevi ; aperturis branchialibus amplis membrana branchiostega radiis sex sus- 

 teata, pinnis dorsali an!.lique elongatis, portione spinosa pinnae dorsalis articulata 

 separata conjunctare ; pinnis pectoralibus radiis ramosis ; pinnis ventralibus 

 jugalaribus et remotis, radiis I. 5 ; ventriculo ovali, ramo brevi ascendente ; 

 caecis pyloricis paucibus. 



Body rather elongatpd, gradually and regularly declining from the nape to 

 the caudal fin ; anteriorly subcylindrical or scarcely compressed. Skin naked. 

 Lateral line high on the sides and near the dorsal fin, interrupted near the end 

 of the latter. Head moderate or large, with the snout prolonged and spatuliform. 



1861.] 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Crown depressed and not relieved bj crests or ridges. Preorbital bones large ; 

 infraorbital chain very narrow, and not articulated with the preoperculum. 

 Opercular bones all present; the interoperculum and suboperculum are mode- 

 rately deyelopsd. Mouth tertniQal, with the clefo lateral and large, extending 

 to the vertical of the eye. Upper jaw with its arch formed in front almost en- 

 tirely by the intermaxillary bones, whose pedicles or posterior processes are very 

 short. Supramaxillary bones with their articulations entirely posterior to the 

 intermaxillary slender and gradually enlarged towards their extremities. 

 Teeth developed on the jaws. Palate smooth and unarmed. Branchial apertures 

 capacious. Jjranchiostegal membrane inferiorly deeply emarginated behind, 

 and provided on each side with six rays. Pseudobranchiae developed. Dorsal 

 fin with its spinous portion short and usually distinct from the soft. The rays 

 of the latter are (often) simply articulated and not branched. The anal fin is 

 little shorter than the dorsal, and itJ rays are divided, with the membrane 

 notched behind each. Caudal fin not forked. Pectoral fins well developed, and 

 with their inferior rays divided. Ventral fins jugular or subjugular, separated by 

 a rhomboid area ; each with a spine and five rays, the first of which are fre- 

 quently thickened and entire. The cranium is flattened behind, and the crests 

 are little developed or obsolete. The spatuliform snout is principally formed by 

 the elongated frontal bones. The stomach is of moderate size and csecal. The 

 pyloric caeca are in very small number. 



The chief distinctive characteristic of this family is doubtless the spatuliform 

 extension of the snout. This combined with the extent of" the fins, structure of 

 the head and general form, distinguish the group from all others. It appears 

 to be most closely allied to the Harpagiferoids and Notothonioids. From the 

 former, it is separated by the form of the head as well as by that of the body. 

 From the 1 itter, by the same features, and also by the naked skin. 



The representatives of this family, or at least Chcenichthys, were at first 

 placed by Sir John Richardson ia the Cuvieran family of Gobioids, between 

 Hameroccctes and Comephorus. Subsequently, in his memoir on Ichthyology 

 published in the Eacyclopfedia Britannica, he removed Hcemeroccetes to his family 

 of UranoscopoidcB, and ret.ainiug Chaiiichthys in that of Gobiidffi, placed it after 

 Comephorus as the last of the family. 



Dr. B'eeker, in his " Systemalis Pisciura Naturalis Tentamen," widely sepa- 

 rated the two groups which are here referred to the family, thus distributing 

 them. 

 Caterva 2. Platycephalichthyes. 



Ordo 33. Platycephali. 



Familia 118. (2d of order) Callionymoidei = Callionymini, Bp. 

 Gen. Callionymus L., Harpagifer, Piichds., Ch^nichtuys, Richds. 

 Caterva 3. Blennii. 



Ordo 34. Cotti. 



Familia 123 (3d of order) Blennioidei. 

 Subfamilia 4. Comephoriformes. 

 Gen. Comephorus Lac, Pagetodes, Richds., an huj loc. 



Dr. Giinlher at first referred Chcenichthys to the group Trachinina of his family 

 of Trachinidse, but subsequently transferred it to that of Nototheniina, formed 

 for Notothcnia, Harpagifer and Chtsnichthys. 



The family has scarcely any affinity to either the Callionymoids or Blennoids. 

 Besides the form of the head as well as that of the body, it differs from the 

 former, especially by the relative situation of the ventral fins and the extent of 

 the branchial apertures. It is also still distinguished from Comephorus, which 

 is the type of a peculiar family little allied to Blennoids, by the structure of the 

 head, the presence of ventral fins, and the development of the pubic bones. It 

 appears, however, to be allied to the Comephoroids, but certainly not as much 

 so as to the Harpagiferoids, or even the Notothenioids. Like its nearest rela- 

 tions, all the representatives of this family are inhabitants of high southern 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 509 



latitudes, where they apparently represent the Cottoids of the north, especially 

 the Oncocotti. They appear to belong to two natural subfamilies, but onq of 

 them is very imperfectly known. 



Subfamily CH.ENICHTHYIN^ Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Trachinina part, (group) Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes. 

 Nototheniina part, (group) Gilnther, Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 



Pinna dorsalis prima a pinna secunda disjuncta. Pinnae dorsalis secunda 

 analisque sat altse ; prior radiis non ramosis. Pinnte pectorales basibus lalis et 

 emarginatis. Pinn^ ventrales utraque radiis spinosa una et quinque articulatis, 

 esternis simplicibus, internis ramosis. 



First dorsal fin separated from the second. The latter and the anal are mode- 

 rately elevated and of nearly uniform height. The rays of the second dorsal 

 are simply articulated. 



Pectoral fins with their bases broad and subvertical, but emarginated. 



Ventral fins well developed and provided with a spine and five soft rays as 

 usual, bat with the external of the latter simple and the internal alone branched. 



The subfamily of ChaenichthyinsB is thus restricted to the genus Chccnichthys 

 as recently extended by Dr. Giin'her. Only two species are known, each of 

 which represents a distinct genus. ■• 



Genus Cn^ENiCHTHYs Richardson. 

 Channichthys Richardson, Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 1844. 

 Chcenichthys Richardson, Ichthyology of the Voyage of the Erebus and Terror, 



p. 12. 

 Chfenichthys GUnther. 



Linea lateralis scutellis parvis armata. Rostrum spina recurvata munita. 

 Pinna dorsalis prima secunda bene separata, alta, spinis septem sustentata. 



Lateral line armed with small osseous scutellse. Snout provided with a re- 

 curved spine. Teeth cardiform, in a band in each jaw. First dorsal fin not 

 contiguous to the second, elevated and provided with about seven radiating 

 spines. Caudal fin convex or subtruncated. Pectorals fins with its hinder 

 border subtruncated above and obliquely convex below. Ventral fins well de- 

 veloped, and about as long as-the pectoral. 



Chcenichthys is here retained with the same limits assigned to it by Sir John 

 Richardson and by Dr. Gunther in his "Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian 

 Fishes." Subsequently, there was referred to it, by the latter gentleman, a 

 species which does not agree with the characters originally given to it, and 

 which appears to be the representative of a different genus. 



Chcenichthys rhinoceratus, Richardson. 



Chaenichthys rhinoceratus Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, 

 p. 13, pi. vi., figs. 1, 2, 3. 

 This species is found among the kelp weed on the shores of Kerguelen'sLand, 

 and attains a length of nearly two feet. Specimens were caught by the hook. 



Genus Champsocephalus, Gill. 

 Chjenich thys sp. Gunther, (1861.) 



Linea lateralis inerme. Rostrum spina obsoleta, Pinna dorsalis spinosa se- 

 cundae approximata, spinis decem munita. 



Lateral line unarmed, formed by small tubules. Snout with no spine. Teeth 

 of the jaws cardiform. First dorsal fin contiguous to the second, as long, or 

 longer, than high, sustained by ten spines. Caudal fin subtruncated or scarcely 

 convex. Pectoral fins large, subtruncated behind, above and below obliquely 

 convex. Ventral fins well developed, and about as long as the pectoral. 



1861.] 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Champsoccphalus is readily distinguished from Chcenichthys by the absence of 

 plates along the lateral line, and the different form of the dorsal fin. 



Champsocephalus esox Gill. 



Cbasnichthys esox Guniher, Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 

 Habitat. — Port Famine. 



Subfamily PAGETODIN^ Gill. 



Pinna dorsalis pone nucham incipiens, parte spinosa vix vel non articulata 

 discreta. Pinnae ventrales longse el graciles. 



Dorsal fin commencing close behind the nape, with no marked distinction be- 

 tween the spinous and articulated portions. Both the dorsal and anal fins are 

 represented to be low. Ventral fins long and slender. 



As the genus Pagetodcs is only known by an unfinished drawing, made during 

 the voyage of the Erebus and Terror, its characters are very imperfectly ascer- 

 tained, and it may even belong to a different family from Chcenkhihys, but it is 

 improbable that such is the case; its physiognomy is quite similar to that of 

 the latter genus, and the characters, if correctly represented, will be doubtless 

 found to be of secondary value, as above considered, and not indicative of 

 family rank. 



The species for which the subfamily is established is an inhabitant of high 

 gouthern latitude?. " When the ships were in the high latitude of 70°, 10'' §., 

 and longitude ITSJ", a fish was thrown up by the spray in a gale of wind against 

 the bows of the Terror, and frozen there. It was carefully removed for the pur- 

 pose of preservation, and a rough sketch was made by the surgeon, John Robert- 

 son, Esq., but before it could be put in spirits, a cat carried it away from his 

 cabin and ate it." In allusion to the manner in which it was discovered, Sir 

 John Richardson has thought fit to name it Pagdodes. 



It is difficult to believe that the dorsal and anal fins are as low as represented 

 in the figure of the species, nor can the opercular region be represented cor- 

 rectly. Tlie drawing is certainly very uns.ntisfactory for the establishment of a 

 distinct group, but as the genus has been named, it is advisable to correctly 

 classify it in order that it maj' not be renamed, at the same time premising that 

 its arrangement is entirely provisional, and that it may possibly even prove to 

 belong to the same group as Chcenichthys. 



Genus Pagetodes Richardson. 

 Pagetodes Ptichardson, Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 15. 



Rostrum inerme. Pinnae pectorales obliquiter truncatse. Pinna caudalis 

 emarginata. 



Snout unarmed. Teeth in each jaw conspicuous. Dorsal and anal fins low. 

 Caudal fin emarginated. Pectoral fins moderate, behind obliquely truncated 

 downwards and forwards, rounded at their upper angle. Ventral fins very slender 

 and tapering. 

 Pagetodes. 



Pagetodes Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 15, pi. 8, fig. 3. 



Synopsis of the HARPAGIFEROIDS. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Family HARPAGIFEROIDS Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Goboid.ne part. Richardson. 

 Callionymoidei part. Bleelcc^. 



Trachinidse (Pseudochromides part. Giinther, 1860. 

 Trachinidje (Nototheniinas") part. Guniher, 1861. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



Acanthopterygii cottoidei buccis inermibus ; membrana brancbiostega radiis 6 

 sustentata ; pinnis dorsali analique elongatis, pinua dorsali radiis sjjinosis 

 paucibus pinnam parvam distinctam formantibus ; pinnis pectoralibus radiis 

 inferioribus ramosis ; pinnis ventralibns jjuguharibus, sat remotis, radiis I, 5; 

 ventriculo csecali, ca;cis pyloricis paucibus. 



Body oblong, generally higbest under tbe first dorsal fin, subcylindrical or 

 even depressed in front, with the caudal peduncle moderate. Skin naked. 

 Lateral line high on the sides, ending near the termination of the second dor- 

 sal, continued in front on the head, and connected by a transverse nuchal line 

 with the opposite one. Head moderate, depressed and subcordate or sub- 

 rhomboid above. Preorbital bones moderate and lateral : infraorbital small 

 and not connected with the preoperculum. Opercular bones all present. 

 Operculum and suboperculum spinigerous. Mouth terminal, with the cleft 

 moderate and lateral, extending near or beneath the eyes. Upper jaw with 

 its arch chiefly formed by the intermaxillary bones, which are scarcely pro- 

 tractile and have very short posterior processes. Supramaxillaries expanded 

 toward? ends. Teeth on the jaws. Palate unarmed. Branchial apertures 

 principally lateral. Branchiostegal membrane beneath emarginated behind, 

 and sustained on each side by six rays. Pseudobranchiaj developed. Dorsal 

 fin double, with a short spinous portion distinct from the soft, and partly 

 above the bases of the pectorals. Anal fin shorter than the second dorsal. 

 Caudal fin not forked. Pectoral fins well developed, and with its inferior raj'S 

 branched. Ventral fins jugular, separated by a rhomboid area, and with a 

 spine and five branched rays. The cranium has only "a very short occipital 

 spine, which does not rise above the hind head, and is not visible in the re- 

 cent fish." The vertebrffi are in increased number I — —-) ; the vertebral 



Vl4+y'' 



column of Harpagijer hispinis has eleven abdominal, and, according to Richard- 

 son, twenty-four caudal, but Giinther was unable to find more than eighteen. 

 The stomach is cecal, and the pyloric branch has a few appendages. The air 

 bladder is obsolete. 



This family is readily recognizable by its cottoid form, combined with small 

 suborbital bones, armed opercula, perfect and jugular ventral fins, branched 

 lower pectoral raj's, and elongated dorsal and anal fins, the former of which 

 has its spinous rays forming a small separate fin. Its lateral line, connected 

 at the nape to its fellow, is also one of its most distinctive characters. 



The nearest allies appear to be the ChaEnichthyoids, Notothenioids, Bovich- 

 thyoids, and more remotely the Callionymoids. 



From the Cha-nichthyoids, the Harpagiferoids are principally distinguished 

 by the form of the head and body, and the anterior extension of the lateral 

 line. 



From the Notothenioids, by the scaleless body and armed opercula, and the 

 different physiognomy. 



From the Bovichthyoids, they are separated by the branched infA-ior rays 

 of the pectoral fins, unarmed palate and small first dorsal fin. 



From the Callionymoids, they are still more widely removed by the structure 

 of the head, the form of the pubic bones, and the corresponding relations of 

 the ventral fins, the greater development of the dorsal and anal fins and struc- 

 ture of the anal, as well as by the larger branchial apertures, caecal stomach, 

 and pyloric caeca. 



The only known genus was placed by Richardson near Callionymus. 

 Dr. Bleeker regarded Callionijmus, Harpagifer and Chcenichthys as members of 

 the family of Callionymoidei. 



Dr. Giinther referred it to the family Trachinida? and group Pseudochromides, 

 and afterwards to the group Notothenina, together with Notothenia and 

 Ch<ienichthys. 



The Harpagiferoids are confined to the seas of high southern latitudes, and 

 there appear to represent the Cottoids of the boreal seas. 



1861.] 




512 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Genus Harpagifer Richardson. 

 Synonyiny. 

 Batrachus sp. Block, Schneider. 

 Callion}'mus sp. Forsfer. 

 Harpagifer Richardson. Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 11. 



Linea lateralis inermis, antice tubulosa, "trans nucham cum pari suo con- 

 jugate ramulumque ad orbitara utramque emittens." Operculum spina hami- 

 fera sursum armatum. Suboperculum spina subrecta etferehorizontalimnni- 

 tum. Dentes velutini et aggregati ad maxillae utrteque sympbisin, lateribus 

 pauciseriati. 



Lateral line unarmed, its anterior portion formed by small tubules, inflexed 

 at the nape and joined by a transverse line to its fellow of the opposite side, 

 thence continued to each orbit. Operculum armed above with a hooked or hami- 

 form spine. Suboperculum with a straight horizontal one. Teeth subulate, 

 pluriserial at the symphysis of each jaw, pauciserial on the sides. First dor- 

 sal fin sustained by three or four spines. Caudal fin rounded behind. Pec- 

 toral fins also rounded behind. Ventral fins with the soft rays all branched, 

 and the second and third longest. 



Type. Harpagifer bispinis Richardson. 



The genus has at most only two known representatives, and perhaps only 

 one, as Dr. GUnther has considered as belonging to the same species, forms 

 which have been by Richardson regarded as distinct. Until reasons are given 

 for the support of the belief of their identity, they may be regarded as species, 

 as there appears to be a decided difference in color. 



Harpagifer bispinis Richardson. 



Callionj'mus bispinis Forster. 



Batrachus bispinis Bloch, Systema Ichthyologiae, Schncid. ed. p. 45. 



Harpagifer bispinis Rich., Ichthyology of the Erelbus and Terror, p. 11, pi. 7, 

 figs. 1-3; p. 19, pi. 12, figs. 8, 9, 



D. IV. 22-24. A. 17. 



Body dark orange, with three irregular large bi'own bands ; dark above. 

 Fins marbled. 



Hahiiat. Falkland Islands. 



Harpagifer palliolatus Richardson. 



Harpagifer palliolatus Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 20, 

 pi. 12, figs. 5-7. 



D. III. 22. A. 17. 



Body dark orange, with irregular large brown bands; hack with a broad 

 ii'hite band, extending from the snout backwards and laterally dilated under the 

 middle and near the end of the soft dorsal. Fins marbled. 



Habitat. Falkland Islands. 



This Is perhaps only a variety of the preceding species as afiirmed by Dr. 

 Giinther, but as that gentleman appears to have had no better means of as- 

 certaining than Sir John Richardson, it may be retained as distinct until such 

 is proved. 



Synopsis of the NOTOTHENIOIDS. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 

 Family NOTOTHENIOIDS, Gill. 



Synonymy, 

 Sciaenidae part. Cuv. et val. 

 SciaenidsB part. Richardson. 

 Gobiidai part. " 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 513 



Sciaenoidei (Sciseniformes partim) Bleeker. 



Gobioidei (Gobiiformes partim) " 



rp ,. •, f Trachinina part. ) GitiMer, Catalogue of the Acanthoptery- 



\ Pseudochromides part. \ gian Fishes, vol ii. 

 ~ } • -fi j Trachinina part. ) (7Mrt<Acr,Annals and Magazine of Natural 



\ Nototheniina part. J History. 



Acanthoptenjgii trachinoidei Eleotriiniis similes, capite hand cavernoso, pinnis 

 pectoralibus radiis ramosis, pinnis ventralibus jugularibus, tinea laterali elevaia 

 posiice vel interrupta, i. e. 



10 + x 



Acanthoptcrygii elongati, buccis inermibus, vertibriis 1 4 i ; corpore regu- 



lariler squamosa; capite lateraliter inflata, ossibus baud cavernosis, operculibus 

 integribus, rostro gibbosa, ore terminal!, modico ; palato laevi ; aperturis bratich- 

 ialibus magnis; radiis branchiostegahbus 6; pinnis dorsali analique longis ; 

 pinnas dorsalis portione spinosa articulata separata; pinnis pectoralis radiis 

 inferioribus ramosis; pinnis ventralibus jugularibus, I. 5; stomacho postice 

 expanso, ctecis pyloricis paucibus. 



Body oblong or elongated, generally highest at or near the nape, and thence 

 slowly and regularly decreasing to the caudnl fin, where it is most compressed; 

 anteriorly subcylindrical. Preanal region generally shorter than the head, 

 rarely longer. Skin covered with regularly imbricated scales of moderate size. 

 Lateral line running high on the sides and near the dorsal fin, rarely uninter- 

 rupted ; generally terminating near the end of the dorsal, and reappearing along 

 the middle on the sides of the tail, and thence continued to the caudal fin. Head 

 moderate, scarcely or not at all compressed, with the snout moderate and little 

 decurved. Eyes moderate, lateral but partly visible from above. Infra-orbital 

 bones very small, and not articulated with the preoperculum. Opercular 

 bones all present, normally developed and unarmed. Nostrils double, between 

 each eye and the snout ; the anterior very small. Mouth terminal, with the 

 cleft lateral, and extending near the vertical of the eye. Upper jaw formed 

 chiefly by the premaxillary bones, which are scarcely protractile, the ascending 

 or posterior processes being very short. Supramaxillary bones expanded towards 

 the ends as usual, mostly retractile under the preorbital. Lips tumid. Teeth 

 acute, present on the jaws. Palatines smooth. Branchial apertures capacious. 

 Branchiostegal membrane below deeply emarginated behind, and provided on 

 each side with six rays. Pseudobranchiae developed. Dorsal fin double ; the 

 spinous portion commences near the nape, is short, and distinct from the soft 

 part; the latter is elongated. Anal fin little shorter than the soft dorsal, and 

 unarmed, with its rays divided like the dorsal, and the membrane notched be- 

 hind each. Candal fin moderately developed and not forked. Pectoral fins 

 well developed, with broad bases normally inserted on the scapular arch; its 

 lower rays are branched. Ventral fins jugular, each provided with a sjiine and 

 five branched rays, the third or fourth of which is generally longest; rarely 

 the second. The cranium is nearly or quite smooth above, and the crests and 

 ridges are rudimentary or obsolete. The vertebrae are in greatly increased 

 number; in one species (N'otothenia ptcrpureiceps, Rich.) there are forly-six, fifteen 

 of which are abdominal. The stomach is moderate and caecal. Pyloric ap- 

 pendages are present in small number (3 — 5). 



The family thus characterized is composed of forms that have been by most 

 authors referred partly to the family of Scisenoids and partly to that of Gobioids, 

 but which Dr. Gunther has recently placed together in this " family" of Tra- 

 chinidae, at the same time distributing them among two of his " groups." 



One of the forms alone was known to Cuvier. He referred it to the family of 

 Sciaenoids and named it Eleginus. In that family, it had been retained by. 

 every naturalist until removed by Dr. Giinther. It appears, however, to have- 

 very little affinity to any true Sciaenoid, and differs in almost every respect, 



1861.] 34 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Another form was made known by Sir John Richardson under the name of 

 Notothenia, and placed by him in the famil}" of Gobioids near Eleotris. From 

 that family, as naturally constituted, it decidedly difiFers by the caecal stomach, 

 the presence of pyloric appendages, &c. 



Dr. Giinther, in his Catalogue of Acanthopterygian Fishes, regarding the 

 lateral line as affording distinctive characters, distinguished two of his four 

 groups of the Trachinidce by the continuation of that line to the caudal fin, or 

 its interruption or termination near the end of the dorsal fin. 



ELeginus having a continuous lateral line was referred to the Trachinina. 



Notothenia, with an inte rupted lateral line, was placed among the ieseudo- 

 chromides. 



It. appears that the groups so characterized are only technical and artificial, 

 and not natural. The group Trachinina, which is arranged as the second of 

 the family, is composed of the following genera : Trachinus L., Percis Schneider, 

 Aphritis Cuv. et Val., Sillago Cuv., Eleginus Cuv. et Val., Epicopus Gunther, 

 Percophis Cuv. et Val., Chcenichthys Rich., Bovichthys Cuv. et Val., and Tricho- 

 don Steller. The genus Homalopomus of Girard, it is supposed, may also be- 

 long to the group. 



As regarded by us, there appear to be several distinct families confounded in 

 this one group. They may be briefly distinguished as follows : 

 I. Lower pectoral rays simply articulated. 



A. Ventral fin thoracic. First and second dorsals sub- 



equal Triohodontoid>*:. 



AA. Ventral fins jugular. 



Ventrals approximated. Anal very long. 



Body scaly TRACHiNoiDi?5. 



Ventrals separated by a wide area. Anal 



moderate. Body naked Bovichthyoid^. 



.11. Lower pectoral rays branched. 



B. Head cavernous. Preoperculum abruptly bentinwards 



beneath the head. Ventrals thoracic Sillagisoid^. 



BB. Head with bones not cavernous. Ventrals jugular 

 or subjugular. 

 a. Snout not produced. Body scaly. 



b. Lateral line submedian along tail Latiloid^.* 



bb. Fins trachinoid. Lateral line interrupted, or 



continuous on the tail Notothenioid.;e. 



aa. Snout spatuliforra. Body naked CH.ffiNiCHTHYOiD^j. 



The genus Ilomalopomux of Girard originated from a mistake of its author, 

 fits species is a member of the Gadoid genus Merlucius, near which it was sub- 

 sequently placed by its describer. A form that has been retained in the family 

 of Latiloidas, and which was first referred by Giinther to the Trachinina, has 

 nevertheless much resemblance to that genus. 



The characters used in the above analytical synopsis, to distinguish the vari- 

 ous supposed families, are coincident with others of importance ; their com- 

 bination produces or accompanies special modifications of form and difference 

 of physiognomy, and those variations appear to be of family value. Such 

 families appear to be of equal rank with those accepted by the most scientific 

 of the modern therologists and ornithologists, and with those of the reptilian 

 orders of Chelonians and Saurians as viewed by Agassiz, Gray and others. 

 Their value also seems to be much greater than those of the families of Ophi- 

 dians established by Dr. Giinther, which have apparently very little title to 

 such rank;* it may be further remarked that some of the families recently 



* Mr. Cope, in his admirable series of memoirs on tlie Ophidians, is doing much lo 

 ■equalize the groups of thai order, and assimilate the value of its families, subfamilies and 

 genera to those of higher vertebrata. With many modifications, the families of Gun- 

 ther are more properly regarded as subfamihes. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 515 



instituted by Dr. Gray among the terrestrial pulmoniferous mollusks, appear 

 to have also less right to rank as such. Ou some future occasion it is proposed 

 to discuss more fully the meaning and limits of families among the fishes. It 

 may perhaps not be uninstructive to here exhibit the views, regarding the pre- 

 sent forms, of a naturalist who has been for many years investigating with a 

 prodigious activity the whole class, who has described nearly an eighth of all 

 the known species, inclusive of both recent and fossil ones, and who, by the 

 admirable precision and clearness of his descriptions, surpasses any of his 

 predecessors. 



Dr. Bleeker has distributed members of the seven groups, above elevated to 

 family rank, among five of his orders and seven different families. The most 

 patent mode to show the wide differences of his views from those of Giinther, 

 will be to arrange them in the regular serial order adopted by himself. Two 

 other groups are introduced wliich contain the remaining Trachinidae of Giin- 

 ther. They are the Percoid subfamily of Mesopriontiformes, with the genus 

 Latiliis and the family of Uranoscopoidei. 



Gaterva 1. Katapieseocephali. 

 Ordo 24. Percffl. 



Subordo 4. Percichthyini, 

 ISectio 1. Paristemipteri. 

 Tribus 2. Percichthyini. 

 Familia 76, (14.) Percoidei. 

 Subfamilia 6. Mesopriontiformes. 



Gen. Latilus, Cuv. (&c.) 

 Subfamilia 8. Trichodontiformes. 

 Gen. Trichoodon Steller. 



Sectio 2. Areiognathi. 



Familia 84, (22.) Sciasnoidei, = Sciaenini, Bon. 

 Subf;imilia 2. Sillaginiformes. 



Gen. SiLLAGO, Cuv, Sillaginichthys, Blkr. Aspro, Cuv. 

 Subfamilia 3. Sciaeniformes. 



Gen. Eleginos. Cuv. All others are true Scisenoids, except 

 Conodon, which is a Pristipomatoid. 



Ordo 26, Scombri. 



Tribus 1. Sphyraenichthyini. 



Familia 93, (1,) Sphyraenoidel, = Sphyragnida;, Bon. 



Gen. Sphyraena, Art. Paralepis, Risso. Percophis, Cuv. (fort, 

 tolid subfamiliae,) &c. (extinct genera.) 



C/aterva 2, Platycephalichthyes. 



Ordo 31. Uranoscopi = Uranoscopini, Bp. 

 Familia 114. Uranoscopoidei. 



Gen, Uranoscopus, Gron. Ichthyoscopus, Swns. 



Ordo 33. Platycepbali. 



Familia 118, (2.) Callionymoidei =z Callionymini, Bon. 



Gen. Callionymus L. Harpagifer Richds. Chjjnichthts Richds. 



Caterva 3. Blennii. 

 Ordo 34. Cotti. 



Familia 120, (2.) Cottoidei = Cottini, Bp. = Cottidae, Sws. 



Gen. BovicHTHTS, Cv., Cottus, L. and the typical Cottoids, but 

 two genera repeated (Aspidocottus, Gir. = Clyptoecottus 

 '*Gir." Ayres) ; Hemilepidotus, Cuv. = Calycelepidotus, 

 Ajr.) 



Ordo 35. Blennii. 



Familia 121, (1.) Trachinoidei. 

 1861.] 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Gen. Trachinus Art., Aphritis Cuv., Percis Klein, Pinguipes 

 Cuv,, Malacanthus Cuv., Heterostichus Gir. 



Familia 123, (3.) Blennoidei. 

 Subfamilia 4. Comephariformes. 



Gen. Comephorus Lac, Pagetodes Richds., an huj loc. 



There certainly is scarcely room for greater differences of opinion than those 

 apparent in the respective arrangements by Giinther and Bleeker of the above 

 enumerated genera. The classification of the latter is so fundamentally different 

 from any other, that it is impossible to equalize or parallel his groups above 

 families with those of other ichthyologists. It can be only remarked that, 

 among the Teleostean fishes of MUUer, the orders are of less value than those 

 generally accepted by ichthyologists, bat, at the same time, all the osseous 

 Ganoids are interposed between the genus Amphisile and the Peclorales pedi- 

 cules of Cuvier, and the other Teleosleans. On further study, it is probable 

 that Dr. Bleeker, with his usual candor, will be himself the first to modify 

 some portions of his classification. Dr. Gnother appears to be correct in ap- 

 proximating to each other many of the above mentioned forms and in separat- 

 ing them from others into which they had been referred, but wrong in collecting 

 them in one family. Some of the allocations which Dr. Bleeker has made in 

 this, as in many other instances, has doubtless resulted from confidence in the 

 correctness of others. One such case is the retention of Heterostichus in the 

 family of Trachinoidei, to which it had been referred by Dr. Girard. That 

 genus is, however, very nearly related to Myxodes of Cuvier, and is conse- 

 quently a Blennoid. In the monographic synopses of the various groups which 

 it is proposed to publish, the relations of the families here noticed will be more 

 fully discussed. 



Dr. Giiother himself, shortly after the publication of the second volume of 

 " The Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes," modified his classification 

 of the Trachinidse by introducing an additional subfamily — '■ Nototheniina" — 

 in which he included Notothenia and Harpagifer, previously placed in the group 

 of Pseudochromides, and Chcenkhthys of the former one of Trachinina. The 

 group so constituted was distinguished by its distinct dorsal fins and inter- 

 rupted lateral line. The modification appears to be an improvement on the 

 former arrangement, but the remarks previously made on the value of the 

 characters of the several types, are equally applicable to the revised classifi- 

 cation. 



We now offer a synopsis of the respective groups which appear to us to be 

 nearly related, and together to constitute a homogeneous and distinct family : — 



Lateral line interrupted. Body regularly tapering Nototheniina. 



Abdominal region shorter than head. Dorsal spines slender.. Notothenia. 

 Abdominal region longer than head. Dorsal spine short 



and stout Macronotothen: 



Lateral line contiuuous. Body subfusiform Eleginina. 



Abdominal region shorter than head. First dorsal triangu- 

 lar Eleginus. 



The family thus formed appears to be a perfectly natural one, notwithstand- 

 ing the difference of the lateral line. The lateral line of the genus Eleginus 

 may be said to represent the anterior or superior one of Notothenia, con- 

 tinued in an uninterrupted course to the caudal fin. An inferior line runs 

 along the middle of the side of the caudal peduncle in Notothenia, and is often 

 visible a short distance in front of the termination of the higher one. The 

 lateral line may be therefore said to be partly double. But as the presence of 

 two parallel lateral lines is exceedingly uncommon in fishes, and the line of 

 Eleginus is homologous to the upper one of Notothenia if projected backwards, 

 the lower one consequently disappears in the former. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



In other families, such as the Chromoids, Poraacentroids and Labroids, the 

 lateral line is also generally interrupted, or it is sometimes obsolete behind, 

 and sometimes the superior or anterior portion is deflected and joins the infe- 

 rior and posterior one, thus forming a continuous line, but not pursuing an 

 uninterrupted course. No instance is apparently known where the superior 

 part is entirely developed at the expense of the inferior. 



In other respects, the likeness of Notothenia and ELeginus is very apparent, 

 and was commeiited on by Sir John Richardson ; yet he, with too implicit re- 

 liance on Cuvier, retained the latter in the family of Sciasnoids, while he 

 referred the former to that of Gubioids on account of the flexibility of the 

 dorsal spines of the typical species, and the resemblance to Eleotris. All of 

 the essential characters of Notothenia and Eleginus appear, however, to be 

 shared, the differences being indicative of much less than family rank. ' The 

 general physiognomy, the essential structure of the fins and the anatomical 

 features, as far as known, are similar. The system of muciferous pores is also 

 entirely homologous; it is most app irent in J?^e^jaM«, and may be illustrated 

 here. 



The lateral line is continued forwards by pores nearly along the oculo- 

 scapuhir groove, beneath the eyes and near the margin of the snout; again, 

 along the margins of the preopercula and beneath the dentaiy bones. At the 

 nape are generally three pores between those of the oculo-scapuhir grooves. 

 Five others are arranged in a more or less regular quincunx in and behind the 

 interorbital area: between each one, forming the anterior angle of the quin- 

 cunx and the tubular nostril, is generally another. Supernumerary ones are 

 frequently interposed between the preceding; more rarely all on the crown 

 and forehead are rudimentary or obsolete, as in the genus Macronotolhen. 



It remains to indicate the distinctions between the family and others. From 

 the Sciaenoids it is distinguished by the non-development of a cavernous skull, 

 the increased number of vertebrce, the structure of the fins and the extent of 

 the anal, the position of the ventral fins, the number of branchiostegal rays, 

 the course of the lateral line, and the absence of scales on the fins. The physi- 

 ognomy is also quite different. 



It differs from that of the Gobioids by the form of the stomach and the pre- 

 sence of pancreatic cieca, the structure and extent of the vertical fins, the 

 relation of the ventral ones, the presence of a lateral line and the structure of 

 the scales. 



It is more nearly allied to the Latiloidae, the Hnrpagiferoidae and the Chae- 

 nichthyoidae, but its physiognomy is unlike that of any of them. From the 

 first, it is also distinguished by the structure of the fins, the course of the 

 lateral line and perhaps the development of the muciferous pores. From the 

 Harpagiferoids, by the scaly body and the unarmed head. From the Cha^nich- 

 thyoidas, by the scaly body, as well as the form and structure of the head and 

 the normal development of the snout. 



It might, perhaps, be natural to unite the two last named forms in the same 

 family with the present, but the different aspect of the respective groups joined 

 to the positive characters distinguishing them, scarcely appear to warrant 

 such a combination. The Harpagiferoids are in some respects the most closely 

 3.11ied. The Notothenioids seem to hold a position in the Southern seas analo- 

 gous to that of the codfishes of the Northern ones. 



Subfamily NOTOTHENIIN^ (Gthr.) Gill. 

 Synonymy. 

 Nototheniina, part. (Notothenia) GUnther, Annals and Magazine of Natural 

 History. 

 Notothaiioidce corpore regulariter attenuata, linea. laterali postice interrupta. 

 Body robust and anteriorly subcylindrical. Lateral line interrupted behind. 

 18151.] 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Head moderate, oblong, with the cheeks more or less tumid. Profile in front 

 of eye, convex or slightly decurved. Eyes chiefly anterior. Mouth moderate 

 and oblique. Spinous dorsal fin small and distinct from the soft one. The 

 rays of the latter and of the anal are branched. 



The subfamily of the Nototheniinae is at once recognized by the interrupted 

 lateral line as well as by the form of its body. The first dorsal fin is generally 

 composed of slender spines like those of the Gobioids, but in one genus the 

 spines are robust, acute and short. 



The representatives of the group are confined to the southern latitudes, 

 and are principally inhabitants of the sea bounding the Falkland Islands and 

 Kergnelen's Land. 



Genus Notothenia Richardson. 

 Synonymy. 

 Kotothenia Richardson, Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 5. 



" Giinther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., vol. ii., 



p. 260. 



Nototheniime corporis portione abdomiuale breve, capite breviore ; pinna 

 dorsali prima radiis 5 — 6, gracilibus et flexilibus; pinnis pectoralibus cauda- 

 lique convexis. 



Body robust, with a stout and short caudal peduncle, and with the preanal 

 or abdominal region shorter than the head. Scales rather small and ciliated. 

 Head more or less scaly, with the skin above soft and naked, or covered with 

 scales. Pores of the nape, oculo-scapular grooves, preoperculum and inter- 

 orbital regions developed. Posterior nostrils subtubular. Teeth of the jaws 

 uniserial on the sides, at the symphisis generallj- pauciserial. First dorsal 

 fin about as high as long, with its spines flexible, five to six in number. Anal 

 fin commencing under or near the middle of the pectoral fins, and distant from 

 the ventrals less than the head's length ; the distance is less than half the 

 length of the fin. Caudal fin convex behind. Pectoral fins large and also 

 convex behind. Ventral fins with its third or fourth rays longest, or both 

 subequal. 



Type. Notothenia coriiceps Richardson. 



The genus Notothenia is here really retained with the same limits as were 

 assigned to it by Sir John Richardson, but that gentleman referred to it with 

 doubt a species which has apparently very little afiinity with the typical 

 species, and which has been in this synopsis of the family accepted as the 

 type of a distinct genus. The present contains fishes whose length varies from 

 about five to fifteen inches. The species closely resemble each other in physi- 

 ognomy and general appearance, but yet differ remarkably in the extent of 

 the squamation of the bead, there being every variation from almost entire 

 nudity to nearly perfect investment of scales ; the preopercular margin, the 

 snout and region behind the supramaxillary bones, are, however, always naked. 

 Although there is scarcely ever so great a variation in the distribution of the 

 scales in one natural genus, I am quite unable to find any other characters 

 which are coincident with the modifications of the squamation that have any 

 pretensions to generic importance. As there is also a strict gradation between 

 the extremes of nudity and squamation, it would appear tliat there can be little 

 doubt of the generic identity of all the well known species. 



There are, however, two forms which are imperfectly known, that manifest 

 considerable variation from their congeners in the relative extent of the second 

 dorsal and anal fins. In one the anal fin has several more rays than the dorsal, 

 while in the typical Notothenia the number is either somewhat less or equal. 

 In the second, the anal fin has only two-thirds as many rays as the soft dorsal. 

 That modification appears to be also accompanied by the presence of a wider 

 cranium. Whether those differences are indicative of other modifications of 



[Pec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



structure has not been mentioned. They must, therefore, for the present at 

 least, be retained in the same genus. 



The following analytical synopsis is chiefly intended to show the gradations 

 in the extension of the scales on the head : — 



I. Anal rays 25 — 33, not exceeding those of soft dorsal. 

 la. Anal rays 27—33. 

 A. Second dorsal with more rays than anal. Head 

 naked above. 

 a. Scales before or on sides of nuchal groove none. 

 Operculum above vitpcr rib scaly ; scattered 

 scales before upper angle of preoperculum. 

 D. V. 31—33. A. 27—29. 

 Broad lateral band and narrow dorsal band yellow. .N. virgata. 



Bands none. Dorsal and anal uniform N. cornucola. 



Bands none. Dorsal and anal margined with 



lighter N. marginata. 



aa. Scales between nuchal and oculo-scapular 

 grooves. 

 h. Prcnuchal scales in one oblique band on each 

 side. Operculum above ■•mperior rib scaly. 

 Scattered nearly uniserial scales below sub- 

 orbitals. D. v. 35 A. 28 N. coriiceps. 



bb. Prenuchal scales in two patches on each side. 

 Operculum &bove inferior rib with imbricated 

 scales. 

 c. Cheeks with lotcer half nuked. D. IV. 35, A. 31. .N. purpuriceps. 

 cc. Cheeks entirely scaly. Preopercular margin 



naked as usual. D. V. 35, A. 31 — 33 N. cyanobrancha. 



AA. Second dorsal and anal nearly equiradiate. Head 

 scaly above and between eyes. Operculum en- 

 tirely covered with imbricated scales. Cheeks 

 entirely scaly. (Naked along preopercular mar- 

 gin and behind maxillaries as in others.) 

 b. Scales above irregular or scattered. D. VI. 28, 



A. 28 N. sinia. 



hb. Scales above imbricated. D, VI. 33—34, A. 33. .N. tessellata. 

 laa. Anal rays 25. D. V. 31 N. magellanicus. 



II. Anal rays 30 ; dorsal only (IV.) 25 N. pLocffi. 



III. Anal rays only 21 (D. V. 30— 31.) N. macrocephalus. 



1. NoTOTHENiA VIRGATA Richardson. 



Notothenia virgata Richardson, Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 

 18, pi. xi., figs. 5, 6. 

 Habitat. — Falkland Islands. 



2. Notothenia coknucola Richardson. 



Notothenia cornucola Richardson, Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, 

 p. 8, pi. viii., figs. 4, 5 ; ib. p. 18, pi. xi., figs. 3, 4. 

 Habitat. — Falkland Islands. 



This species is closely allied to N. virgata, and may be the same ; it still 

 more nearly resembles the following. 



3. Notothenia marginata Richardson. 



Notothenia marginata Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 18. 

 pi. xii., figs. I, 2. 

 Habitat. — Falkland Islands. 



This may be identical with the former, and has been united to it by Dr. 

 Giinther ; it differs by the paler margins of the dorsal and anal fins, 



1861.] 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



4. NoTOTHENiA coRiiCEPS Richardson. 



Notothenia coriiceps Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 5, 

 pi. iii., figs. 1, 2. 

 Habitat. — Coasts of Kerguelen's Land and of the Auckland Islands. 



5. Notothenia pdrpuriceps Richardson. 



Notothenia purpuriceps Rich., Ichthyology of Erebus and Terror, p. 7, pi. ii., 

 figs. 3, 4. 

 Habitat. — Kerguelen's Land. 



6. Notothenia cyanobrancha Richardson. 



Notothenia cyanobrancha Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 

 7, pi. iv. 

 Habitat. — Kerguelen's Land. 



. Notothenia sima Richardson. 



Notothenia sima Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, pi. xi., figs. 

 1,2. 

 Habitat. — Falkland Islands. 



8. Notothenia tessellata Richardson. 



Notothenia tessellata Rich,, Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 19, 

 pi. xii., figs. 2, 3. 

 Habitat. — Falkland Islands. 



9. Notothenia magellanica Richardson. 



Gadus magellanicus Forster apud Block, Systema Ichthyologiae, Schneid. 



ed., p. 11. 

 Notothenia magellanica Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 9. 

 Lota magellanica Rich., op. cit., p. 61. 

 Habitat, — In littoral sea-weed of Terra del Fuego. 



Richardson, having apparently forgotten that he had seen a drawing of this 

 species and identified it as a Nutothenia, afterwards referred to it as Lota. 

 This and the following two species are very imperfectly known. 



10. Notothenia phocje Richardson. 



Notothenia phocse Rich., Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 8. 

 Habitat. — Antarctic Ocean (Lat. 65°, Long. 155° W. of Greenwich.) 



11. Notothenia macrocephalus Gunther. 



Notothenia macrocephalus Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygiau 

 Fishes, &c., vol. ii., p. 263. 

 Habitat. — Falkland Islands. 



Genus Macronotothen Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Notothenia? sp. Richardson. 

 Notothenia sp. Gunther. 



NototheniincR corporis portiore abdominale elongato, capite longiore ; pinna 

 dorsali prima radiis 7, validis, acutis et brevibus ; pinnis pectoralibus cauda- 

 lique truncatis. 



Body little robust, with a rather slender caudal peduncle, and with the 

 preanal region longer than the head. Scales small and ciliated. Head with 

 few scales, mostly naked, and above with the sculpture of the bones apparent. 

 Pores scarcely developed. Posterior nostrils subtubular. Teeth of the jaw? 

 villiform, stouter and subulate in the outer row. First dorsal fin low, and 

 sustained by about seven short and pungent spines. Anal fin distant more 

 than the head's length from the ventrals. the distance being about equal to the 

 length of the fin itself. Caudal fin moderate, and obliquely eubtruncated 

 behind. Ventral fins with the fourth ray longest. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



Type. Macronotoihen Rossii Gill. 



The present is most nearly allied to the genus Xotothenia, but is distinguished 

 from it by many important characters, all those above enumerated being pecu- 

 liar, with the exception of the size of the scales and the character of the 

 nostrils, both of which are common to it and Notothenia. The most striking 

 difference is the extent of the abdominal region, which entails a corresponding 

 modification of the fins. One of the most positive technical characters is the 

 brevity and pungency of the dorsal spines. 



Macronotothen is at present represented by only one species, which attains to 

 a length of about three feet. All of the species of Notothenia are compara- 

 tively small, the largest known not exceeding fifteen inches. 



Macronotothen Rossii Gill. 



Notothenia? Rossii Richardson, Ichthyology of the Erebus and Terror, p. 



9, pi. ix., figs. 1, '2. 

 Notothenia Rossii Gunther, Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, &c., 

 vol. ii., p. 263. 

 Habitat. — Unknown- 

 Subfamily ELEGINIIN^ Gill. 



Syno7iyvii/. 

 Sciaenidae partim Cuvicr^ et auct. al. 

 Trachinina partim Gunther. 



NoiothenioidcB corpore fusiforme, linea laterali ad pinnam caudalem exten- 

 dente. 



Form subfusiform in profile, highest under the first dorsal fin. Lateral line 

 uninterrupted and continued to the caudal fin. Head moderate or small, with 

 the profile in front of eyes convex or slightly decurved, and with the opercular 

 region somewhat tumid. Eyes principally in the anterior half of the head. 

 Mouth moderate and oblique. Spinous dorsal fin small and distinct from the 

 soft. The rays of the latter fin, as well as of the anal are branched. 



The Eleginiinaj are distinguished by the subfusiform body and by the con- 

 tinuation of the lateral line above to the caudal fin. Like Nototheniinfe, they 

 are inhabitants of the Southern seas; but representatives extend much farther 

 towards the equator. 



Genus Eleginus Cuvier. 

 Synonymy. 

 Eleginus Cuvier et Val., Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, torn, v., p. 158. 

 Eleginus Gai/, Richardso7i, Gunther. 



Body rather slender, subfusiform in profile, highest above the abdomen, 

 rather rapidly decreasing between the dorsal and anal fins, and with the caudal 

 peduncle slender. Scales rather small, and minutely ciliated. Head scaly 

 above and on the sides, but with the snout and preorbital region naked. Pores 

 of the nape, oculo-scapular grooves and forehead well developed. Nostrils 

 simple. Teeth of the jaws villiform and in a narrow band. First dorsal fin 

 triangular, with eight or nine rapidly decreasing spines. Second dorsal and 

 anal fins highest in front, and slightly incurved behind. Anal fin distant from 

 the ventrals about a head's length, longer than that interval. Caudal fin emar- 

 ginated. Pectoral fins pointed. Ventrals with the second or third ray longest. 



Type. Eleginus maclovinus Cuv. et Val. 



Three species of Eleginus have been described, and a fourth nominal one 

 has been added by Sir John Richardson. The last is doubtless identical with 

 the typical species of the genus, having been described from specimens taken 

 at the same islands a^ those of which the Eleginus maclovinus is an inhabitant; 

 and the remarks concerning its abundance and uses themselves strongly cor- 



1861.] 




522 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



roborate the identity of the two species. The Eleginus bursinus is very imper- 

 fectly known, no characteristic or distinctive character having been assigned 

 to it by Cuvier and Valenciennes, their notice chiefly comparing it vrith the E. 

 maclovinus. 



The following synopsis indicates the principal differences between the species. 

 Caudal emarginafed. Angle of preoperculum ot)tusely angular. 



Greenish, with blackish margined scales E. maclovinus. 



Brownish. Second dorsal spotted E. bursinus. 



Caudal entire or convex. Angle of preoperculum nearly rec- 

 tangular. Body one-sixth as high as long E. chilensis. 



1. Eleginus maclovinu.s Cuv.et Vol. 



Atherina macloviana XcssoTi, Voyage de la Coquille, Zoologie, vol. ii., p. 



202, pi. 17. 

 Eleginus maclovinus Cuv. et Vul., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome v., p. 158, 



pi. 115. 

 Eleginus falklandicus Richardson, Voyage of the Erebus and Terror, Fhhex, 



p. 30, pi. 20, figs. 1—3. 

 JIabitai. — Falkland Islands. 



2. Eleginus bursinus Cuv. et Val. 



Eleginus bursinus Cuv. et Val., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome v., p. 161. 

 Habitat. — Port Jackson, Australia. 



3. Eleginus chilensis Cuv. et Val. 



Eleginus chilensis Cuv. et Vol., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tome ix., p. 480. 

 Habitat. — Chilian coast. 



[Note. — After the preceding paper had been forwarded to the Academy, it 

 was discovered that two species, (Apkritis vndulaius and A. porosus,) referred by 

 Jenyns to the geuus Apkritis, not only are generically distinct, but belong to a 

 different family, ai.d form a genus nearly related to Eleginus, which will be at 

 an early date described as Eleginops. Aphriiisis apparently most nearly related 

 to the genus Percophis. 



The Committee to which was referred Dr. Slack's Handbook to the 

 Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, recommended that it be 

 publi.shed with the sanction of the Academy. Tho report was adopted 

 and the Committee discharged. 



On motion, permission was granted to Mr. E. D. Cope to state to 

 the Academy a few observations which he had made upon certain 

 Cyprinoid fish in Pennsylvania during the previous summer : 



He had observed that the Cyprinella analostana of Girard — the only 

 known eastern representative of the genus — found hitherto only in the Poto- 

 mac — extended into the northern regions of the Susquehanna basin, having 

 been discovered by him in Elk Lake, Susquehanna Co. It had since been 

 found in the Delaware region, near Philadelphia, by Mr. J. Burke, who had 

 placed specimens in the Academy's aquarium ; and near Trenton, N. Jersey, by 

 IVIr. Abbott, the ichthyologist. The Pliargyrus of the Susquehanna, obtained 

 from the Raystowu Juniata, Bedford Co., the Meshoppen Creek, Susquehanna 

 Co., and the Elk Creek, Chester Co., he believed to be a different species from 

 that most common in the tributaries of the Delaware, which latter differs 

 materially from the New England fish called by some P. cornutus. The 

 Leucosomi appeared to be similarly distributed. That of the Susquehanna 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



is L. c a t a r a c t u s of Prof. Baird,* an abundant fish, and one that takes the 

 bait very eagerly. That inhabiting the Brandywine, the Rancocas and other 

 tributaries of the Delaware, differed from this and from the New England 

 species, L. pulchellus, Storer, in the greater size of its scales. The num- 

 ber which the lateral line traverses is 47 ; incataractus, the same; in 

 pulchellus, 59. Other specific peculiarities were presented in the follow- 

 ing diagnostic form : — 



Length of head entering into total length (including caudal fin), four and 

 three-quarter times ; greatest depth of body seven-eighths the length of the 

 hend. of which the diameter of the orbit occupies a little more than one-fifth. 

 Length of the superior surface of the head a little less than one-third the 

 distance between the extremity of the muzzle and the base of the dorsal fin, 

 and twice the breadth between the orbits. The distance from the base of the 

 caudal fin to the anterior border of that of the dorsal is nine-tenths the dis- 

 tance anterior to the latter point. Ventral fin opposite the dorsal ; its ante- 

 rior border shorter than that of the anal, which is similarly related to the 

 dorsal in that respect. The muzzle projects slightly beyond the mandible, 

 ilouth cleft obliquely downward, its rictus corresponding with a point mark- 

 ing three-fourths the distance from the end of the muzzle to the anterior rim 

 of the orbit. Barbels quite small, even in large specimens. Membranous 

 border of the operculum narrow ; that at the bases of the scales slight. The 

 exposed portions of the scales upon the sides are twice as high as wide, and 

 nearly symmetrical ; there are about twenty strong radii, and numerous 

 weak concentric lines, which are strongest near the margin. Eight rows 

 above the lateral line, five below ; total fourteen ; seven rows upon the caudal 

 peduncle at its middle. 



This species had been called Semotilus corporalis by Mr. Abbott, (Proceed. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1861, p. 154,) but Mr. Cope was of the opinion that 

 Cyprinus corporalis of Mitchell was a diflerent fish. He also dissented from 

 the generic determination of the former author. He proposed, therefore, that 

 it be known as Leucosomus rhotheus. Mr. Abbott's radial formulae were 

 correct, but there were apparent inaccuracies in the description of color ; with- 

 out living specimens, a correction could not be made, but its general appear- 

 ance when drawn from the water, as far as Mr. Cope recollected, was silvery, 

 without spots or bands. Shortly after death the upper regions became of a 

 light steel blue. Mr. Cope further stated that Semotilus atromaculatus of Mr. 

 Abbott's article was also a Leucosomus. Specimens of another Leucosomus 

 had been sent to the Academy from the Alleghany River. 



He had found neither Ceratichthys nor Exoglossum 'in the Delaware streams, 

 though they abounded in those of the Susquehanna. 



Mr. Cope stated that he had made the interesting discovery of the occur- 

 rence of the genus Chrosomus Raf. in the Susquehanna basin. It had been 

 previously known exclusivelj as a transalleghenian type. The specimens 

 of the species which he called Chrosomus e o s, were caught in the Meshoppen 

 creek, Susquehanna county. The peculiarities which first strike the eye as 

 separating them from those of C. e ry th r og as t er, are— 1st, the absence of 

 lateral line ; 2d, the nearly straight dorsal outline ; 3d, the want of prominence 

 of the premaxillary region, and the downward slope of the mouth ; 4th, the con- 

 fluence on the tail of the lateral colored bands. -A. groove extends on each side 

 of the body above the position corresponding to that of the rudimentary lateral 

 line of ery t h rogaste r ; along this the superior lateral black stripe runs. 

 The inferior band becoming confluent with the upper, traverses the median 

 lateral line of the peduncle of the tail. The depth of the body anterior to the 

 dorsal fin enters the length exclusive of the caudal fin, a little more than four 

 times. Thus it is a more slender species than theerythrogaster. The 



* Iconogr. Encyclop. ii. p. 216. 



1861.] 




524 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



diameter of the eye is greater than the distance from its anterior border to the 

 end of the muzzle ; it enters the length of the head 3^ times. The proportions 

 of the fins are similar to those in er}' t h r oga s t er, excepting ia the absence 

 of one ray in the anal, and two in the caudal. The formula is D. 8, C. 18, A. 8, 

 V. 8, P. 16. Of the five larger pharyngeal teeth the smallest is much hooked. In 

 specimens 2^ inches long taken in September, the abdomen was yellowish sil- 

 very as far as the inferior lateral line ; above this the tint was brownish vitel- 

 line, darkest superiorly. No silvery between the bands. 



In presenting to the Academj' a specimen of Phalotris tricolor (Elapomor- 

 phus tricolor D. and B.,) from Paraguay, Mr. Cope took occasion to state that in 

 his opinion Elapomorphus as left in the Erpetologie Generale was a union of 

 three generic forms, which he stated to be the following. First Elapomorphus, 

 having four frontal plates ; species, E. b 1 u m i i, E. a f f i n i s Rhdt., E. w u c h- 

 e r e r i Gthr.; second Phalotris, in which the post-frontals are confluent,* species, 

 P. tricolor, P. lemniscatus, P. reticulatus Peters sp. and P. b i 1 i- 

 n eat u s ; third, Apostolepis, in which the prefontals are obliterated ; species, A. 

 1 e p i d a Rhdt. sp., A. flavotorquata and A. o r b i gn y i. Prof. Rein- 

 hardl had subsequently, very properly in Mr. Cope's opinion, placed the E. 

 gabonensis Diim. in his genus Urobelus, (the African type,) with the U. 

 a c a n t h i a s of Kroyer. 



The obtuse tail, and peculiar frontal plates of Apostolepis, were observed in 

 the genus Sympholis Cope. But the latter diflFered widely in its equal, groove- 

 less teeth, its loreal plate approaching the orbit, and its nasal confluent with 

 with the first superior labial. The tail was shorter and more obtuse, the body 

 more massive, the gastrosteges narrower, one small preocular above the loreal, 

 one or no postocular. The eye very small, the muzzle prominent, obtuse, and 

 furnished with a large rostral shield. No traces of scale pores, or posterior 

 extremities. Urosteges two-rowed. He thought this singular form bore some 

 aflSnitj^ to Stenorhina, and perhaps to Conopsis, Gthr., which he had not seen. 

 S. I i p p i e n s had been sent from Guadalaxara, Mexico, by Mr. I. 1. Major, to the 

 Smithsonian Institution. The following diagnostic notice was offered: five sepa- 

 rate upper labials, all higher than long except the last ; the first two in contact 

 with the orbit. Third and fourth separated from occipital by one temporal. 

 Each of the latter is a little longer than broad, and has its external anterior 

 angle cut off by suture. The place of a superior postocular is occupied by a 

 process of the superciliary; the inferior is on one side supplanted by the second 

 superior labial. Superciliary plate as broad as the vertical ; the latter is elon- 

 gate hexagonal, the anterior and posterior angles equal and right. The frontals 

 heptagonal, broad as long; rostral prominent, depressed, angular posteriorly. 

 Scales higher than long, in nineteen rows. Tail scarcely twice as long as he.^d, 

 terminating in a convex shield. Anal plate entire. Total length 20 in. 9 lin., 

 color yellow, with eighteen black bands on the body more or less incomplete 

 inferiorly, two on the tail, and one covering the muzzle to behind the eyes. 



The same locality and explorer bad furnished the fifth species of Coniophanes, 

 C. 1 a t e r i t i u s, which Mr. Cope exhibited to the members. The coloration was 

 brilliant and at once characterized it. The whole body was bright vermillion 

 punctulated with brown, passing through orange to golden on the belly. The 

 head, and neck for ten scales posteriorly were black, the labials bordered and 

 traversed by yellow lines, and the occipitals dotted with the same. Throat and 

 chin yellow, black spotted. The head was broad posteriorly, and the outline 

 converged rapidly to the acute prominent muzzle. Loreal square ; one pre-, 

 two postoculars. Seven upper labials, eye over third and fourth, fifth very 

 large. Ten inferior labials. Scales in nineteen rows. Vertical plats nearly 

 as broad as long. Anal divided. Total length 24 in. 3 lines, of this the tail is 

 seven inches. 



*Vid. Pr. A.N. S. 1861,p. 302 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



The following remarks by Dr. Stewardson, on the Ailatithus Silk 

 Worm, are hero introduced, having been accidentally omitted in their 

 proper place : 



At a meeting of the Academy, held March 5th, Dr. Stewardson called the 

 attention of tlie members to the subject of the recent introduction of the Ailan- 

 thus Silk Worm into France, and its probable adaptation to our own country. 

 Having been much interested in the short notices which he had met with in the 

 French journals, he mentioned the subject to his friend, G. Roberta Smith, of 

 this city, who kindly obtained for him from Paris a case containing specimens 

 of this rew silk worm (Bombyx cynthia), of its cocoon, and of the silk ob- 

 tained from tbem, in the several states of crude silk, thread and woven cloth. 

 These specimens were exhibited for the inspection of the members. In the 

 month of June, through the kindness of the same gentleman, eggs of this 

 Bombyx were received from Paris. The first lot entirely failed, most of the 

 eggs having hatched before reaching their destination. From a second im- 

 portation, which arrived a few days subsequently, Mr. Evans, an intelligent 

 manufacturer in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, who warmly interested him- 

 self in Dr. Stewardson's views of introducing the cultivation of this silk in our 

 country, succeeded in raising a few worms, which formed their cocoons in July. 

 Towards the middle of August the butterflys made their appearance, and the 

 eggs laid by them hatched their worms from the 30th of August to the 3d of 

 September. A part of these worms were placed by Mr. Evans upon a copse of 

 Ailanthus in the neighborhood of his house. Another portion were placed by 

 Dr. Stewardson upon a large Ailanthus tree in a private garden in Philadelphia. 

 The remainder were fed by Dr. S. in a room at his own bouse. Those placed 

 in the open air were exposed to violent rains and wind, but without injury. 

 Nearly all those placed upon the tree in the city came to maturity and spun iheir 

 cocoons, about eighty iu number. Of those placed in the open air by Mr, 

 Evans, many were destroyed by birds, but in other respects the success was 

 perfect. About forty cocoons were obtained by Dr. S. from the worms raised 

 at his house. A specimen of one of the latter, feeding upon the leaf of the 

 Ailanthiis, and on the eve of forming its cocoon, was exhibited to the memberg 

 of the Academy, by Dr. Stewardson, at their meeting, held October Ist, at 

 which time he gave a short history of his experiments and their results. 



The Ailanthus Silk Worm, brought from China to Turin, in 1857, was intro- 

 duced into France by M. Guerin-Meneville, in 1858, and already the results of 

 its cultivation have been so encouraging, that but little doubt is now enter- 

 tained that the production of this silk will soon become an extensive branch of 

 industry in that country. 



From a statement recently made to the French Academy, by M. Guerin-Mene- 

 ville, it appears that the cocoons, which at first had to be carded, have been 

 successfully unwound, but by what process he does not mention. This last 

 discovery adds most materially to the value of this silk, and the ease with 

 which the Ailanthus can be cultivated upon the poorest soils, together with 

 the comparatively small amount of labor required in raising the worms, which, 

 when a few days old, are placed upon hedges in the open air, and require 

 scarcely any further attention, render this culture particularly worthy of atten- 

 tion in this country. The experiments of Dr. Stewardson convince him that 

 our climate is well adapted to raising this worm, and that in this latitude two 

 crops can be obtained in a season. Having succeeded in raising upwards of 

 one hundred cocoons, he hopes, with the assistance of any gentlemen who may 

 feel an interest in the subject, during the coming season, to continue the ex- 

 periments upon this interesting subject on a more extensive scale. 



1861.] 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The Reports of the Recording Secretary and Curators were read, as 



follows : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY 



FOR 1861. 



During the year ending 30th November, 1861, there hare been elected six- 

 teen members and fifteen correspondents. 



One member has resigned. 



Eight members have died, to wit: Mr. John H. Markland, Dr. Charles HufF- 

 nagle, Dr. Samuel iMoore, Dr. Richard Clements, Mr. Francis Peters, Mr. George 

 M. Keim and Dr. George Spackman. 



The deatli of the fjllowing correspondents has been anoounced : Prof. P. 

 Tiedemann, of Heidelburg, and Dr. M. Grateloup, of Bordeaux. 



During the same period the following papers have been read and ordered to 

 be published in the Journal or Proceedings of the Academy: 



By Charles C Abbott, four, to wit: " Description of two new Species of 

 Pimelodus, from Kansas." " Observations on Cottus Copei." " Notes on the 

 Habits of Aphredoderus Sayanus." " On Cyprinus Corporalis, etc." 



By Harrison Allen, M. D., two, to wit : " Description of new Pteropine Bats 

 from i^frica." " Description of a new Mexican Bat." 



By W. G. Binney, two, to wit : " Catalogue of land and fresh-water Univalve 

 Mollusks, etc." " Notes on the Terrestrial Mollusks of the Peninsular of Cali- 

 fornia." 



By A. D. Brown : " Description of two new Species of Helix." 



By S. B. Buckley, two, to wit: "Notes on Ants in Texas." "Notes on the 

 Bartram Oak." 



By John Cassin : " Descriptions of new Birds from Western Africa, in the 

 Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," published in 

 the Journal. 



By E. D. Cope, four, to wit: "Catalogue of Colubridae in the Museum of 

 the Academy, etc., part 3." " Notes and descriptions of Anoles." " Con- 

 tributions to the Ophiology of Lower California, Mexico and Central America." 

 " On the Reptilia of Sombrero and Bermuda." 



By Elliott Coues, three, to wit: " Monograph of Tringeae of North America." 

 "Notes on the Ornithology of Labrador." "Monograph of the Genus ^gio- 

 thus, etc." 



ByWm. H. Edwards: " Descriptions of certain Species of Diurnal Lepidop- 

 tera." 



By D. G. Elliott : " Description of a new species of Pitta." 



By Wm. M. Gabb, six, to wit : " Description of some new Species of Tertiary 

 Fossils from Chiriqui." " Synopsis of American Cretaceous Bracbiopoda." 

 " List of the Mollusca inhabiting the neighborhood of Philadelphia." "Des- 

 criptions of new Species of Cretaceous Fossils from New Jersey, Alabama and 

 Mississippi. " Descriptions of new Species of American Tertiary Fossils, etc." 

 " Notes on Cretaceous Fossils, etc." 



By Wm. M. Gabb and George H. Horn : " Monograph of the Fossil Polyzoa 

 of the Secondary and Tertiary Formations of North America," published in the 

 Journal. 



By Theodore Gill, seventeen, to wit : " Description of a new Species of the 

 Genus Anableps." " On the Classification of the Eventognathi." " Appendix 

 to the Monograph of the Phylipni, etc." " Synopsis of the Subfamily of Clu- 

 peinae, etc." '• Synopsis of the Subfamily of Percinae." " Synopsis Generum 

 Rhyptici et Affinium." " Revision of the Genera of Sciaeninse of North Ame- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELrHIA. 527 



rlca." " On the identity of the Genera Neomcenis of Girard and Lutjanus of 

 Block." " On the Haploidonotinae." " On the Genus Aristotremus." " Synop- - 

 sis of the Uranoscopoids." " Notes on some Genera of Fishes of the Western 

 Coast of North America." " On a new type of Aulostomatoids, etc." " On 

 the Genus Podothecus." "Description of a new Generic Type of Blennoids." 

 " Monograph of the Tridigitate Uranoscopoids." '-Synopsis of the Polynema- 

 toids." " Catalogue of the Marine Fishes of the Eastern Coast of North Amer- 

 ica, etc." 



By George H. Horn : "Descriptions of new North American Coleoptera." 

 By Robert Kennicott: '■ On three new forms of Rattlesnalces." 

 By Isaac Lea, nine, to wit: "Description of twenty-five new Species of 

 Unionidie, from Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida." " Description of 

 anew Species of Neritina, etc." "Description of two new Species of Anodon- 

 ta, etc." " Description of new Species of Anodonta and Lithasia." " Des- 

 criptions of twelve new Species of Uniones from Alabama." " Description of 

 a new genus (Strephobasis,) etc." "Description of forty-nine new Species of 

 the Genus Melania." " Description of new Fossil Mollusca from the Creta- 

 ceous formation of Haddonfield, N. J." " New Unionidae of the United States," 

 published in the Journal. 



By John L. LeConte, M. D., two, to wit: "New Species of Coleoptera 

 inhabiting the Pacific District of the United States."' "Notes on the Coleop- 

 terous Fauna of lower California." 



By F. W. Lewis, M. D. : " Notes on new and rare Species of Diatomaceaj 

 of the United States Seaboard." 



By F. B. Meek : " Descriptions of new Cretaceous Fossils, etc." 

 By F. B. Meek and A. H. Worthen : " Descriptions of new Palaeozoic Fossils 

 etc." 



By Thaddeus Norris : " Description of a new Species of Osmeus, etc." 

 By Baron R. Osten Sacken : " Nine new North American Limnotiacere." 

 By Temple Prime, two, to wit: " Synonomy of the Cyclades, etc." " Des- 

 criptions of new Species of Cyrena, Corbicula and Sphaerium." 



By Edmund Ravenel, M. D. : " Descriptions of new recent Shells fi-om the 

 Coast of South Carolina." 



By J. H. Slack, M. D. : " Description of a new Species of Rodent of the 

 Genus Spermophilus." 



By William Stimpson, two, to wit : " On the ilarine Shells brought from 

 Hudson's Bay by Wm. Drexler, etc." " Notes on certain Decapod Crustacea " 

 By George Suckley, M. D., U. S. A. : " Description of a new Species of 

 North American Grouse." 



By Philip R. Uhler, three, to wit : " Rectification of the Paper upou Hemip- 

 tera of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition." " Hemiptera of the North 

 Pacific Exploring Expedition, etc." " Descriptions of four new Species of 

 Hemiptera, etc." 



By H. C. Wood, Jr , three, to wit : " Descriptions of new Species of Scolo- 

 pendra, etc." " On the American Chilopoda, etc," published in the Journal. 

 " Description of a new Species of the Genus Thelyphonus." 



By John Xantus : " Description of three new Species of Star-fishes." 

 In all 77 papers. 



During the same period the By-Laws have been amended as follows : 



Article VIII. Chapter X. Add the words " of more than twenty of thos<j 

 extra copies." Adopted 31st December, 1860. 



Article II. Chapter II. Lines first and second, to read thus : " No person 

 residing in Philadelphia, or within a circuit of thirty miles, unless he be an 

 Officer of the Army or Navy, can be chosen a Correspondent." 



Article II. Chapter III. Introduce instead of the word " City," the words 

 " aforesaid District and a Circuit of thirty miles around it ; " and adding to 

 the close of said article, " But this should not be construed with an exemption 



1861.] 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



from payment of tbe regular dues on the part of those who, at the time of 

 their election or afterwards, may have their permanent residence outside of 

 said Circuit " Adopted 26th March, 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



B. HOWARD RAND, M. D., 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS 



FOR 18G1. 



Notwithstanding the unsettled condition of affairs of the country which ab- 

 sorbs so much the attention of our members as well as of all other citizens, the 

 Museum of the Academy, during tbe year about closing, has presented about as 

 much prosperity as in preceding rears. 



The collections generally continue in a good state of preservation, and none 

 of the more perishable objects have suffered injury, except the entomological 

 cabinet. In this department the orthoptera, which appear to hav*^ attracted 

 little attention either for study or preservation, have been nearly destroyed. 

 The other orders have been slightly damaged, but the Curators will shortly tal<e 

 steps to prevent further injury. The extensive herbarium and ornithological 

 cabinet, as well as the collections of mammals, reptiles, fishes and Crustacea, 

 are irv excellent condition. 



A greater number of persons have visited the Museum this year than at any 

 previous time. This, though gratifying as indicative of an increasing interest 

 in our Institution, is attended with a result which requires some remedy. The 

 movements of crowds of visiters give rise to clouds of dust which penetrates 

 the cases and obscures the specimens. In default of means to render the cases 

 Impervious lo dust, a person should be employed to cleanse the specimens. 



The limited space occupied by the Acadtmy is fast becoming inconveniently 

 crowded by its collections, and it is to be regretted that we have no provision 

 for a further extension of our space. Certain collections receive no accommo- 

 dation whatever; as, for instance, a series of rocks or geological specimens. 

 The last resource of the Curators to accommodate large objects is to mount 

 them in the air above the cases occupying the floor, as has been recently done 

 with the skeleton of a whale. For want of room, the Curators are almost con- 

 stantly obliged to use the library, in the unpacking and packing of boxes. It 

 is greatly to be hoped that an opportunity may arise which will give us the 

 means of amplifying our space for the accommodation of our rapidly increasing 

 museum and library. 



The most important contributions to the Cabinet of the Academy during the 

 year, are as follows : 



1. The skeleton of a whale 30 feet in length, presented by George Davidson. 

 It was mounted by James A. Wood, and now forms one of the most conspicu- 

 ous objects of the Museum. The whale was captured last summer in the Dela- 

 ware river, opposite Philadelphia. 



2. A collection of 2500 specimens of marine animals, obtained last summer 

 on the coast of Maine. Presented by Dr. J. H. Slack. 



3. A large collection of marine animals from New Providence, Bahamas. 

 Presented by H. C. Wood, Jr. 



Besides the preceding, in addition to many objects received in exchange and 

 on deposit, the following have been presented in the various departments of 

 the Cabinet: 



Mammals. — Eighty-six specimens of 30 species of rodents, bats, and carnivora, 

 were presented by Dr, J, L. LeConte; the Smithsonian Institution presented 29 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



specimens of 18 species of rodents and ruminants ; 18 specimens of 14 species, 

 chiefly quadrumana, were presentfd by Dr. J. H. Slack; 18 specimens, 8 species 

 of Texas animals were presented by Dr. A. L. Heermann ; and 1 1 others were 

 presented by Van Amberg's Menagerie Co., Dr. J. M. Corse, S. B. Buckley, Geo, 

 Davidson, J. R. Campbell, J. Krider, and Dr. J. Bryan. 



Birds. — Ninety-nine specimens of 57 species of Western African birds, 

 collected by Du Chaillu, were presented by Messrs. T. B. Wilson, S. and J. 

 Jeanes, I. Lea, F. Rogers, C. E. Smith, A. 11. Smith, J. Leidy, W. P. Foulke, 

 E Harris, W. S. Vaux, J. D. Logan, G. A. McCall, .1. C. Trautwine, E. Durand, 

 W. M. Uhler, S. W. Mitchell and J. L. LeCoiite. Thircy-nine specimens of 37 

 species, principally American birds, were presented by Dr. J. C. Letterman, 

 T. Sitgreave, Dr. W. Gibson, Dr. A. L. Heermann, J. Jeanes, J. IL Slack, G. 

 Davidson, J. H. Powel, C. J. and W. S. Wood, Mr. Orthwein, Dr. A. J. Foard, 

 A. C. Thomas, and J. Rodgers. Dr. Slack presented G2 e^gs, 27 species, from 

 Minnesota; C. S. Wesicott, 15 species eggs and 5 nests; Mr. Gabb, the egg of 

 a Rhea ; and Alfred Newton the nest anU eggs of the Waxwing, Ampelis gar- 

 rulus. 



Reptiles. — Seveaty-one specimens, 20 species of Texas reptiles, were presented 

 by Dr. A. L. Heermann ; and 19 specimens, of 16 species, were presented by Geo. 

 Davidson, H. C. Wood, Dr. A. Wilson, E. C. xMitchell, E. D. Cope, M. Canby, 

 and W. J. Chaloner. 



Fishes. — The Smithsonian Institution presented 175 species, chiefly of Ameri- 

 can fishes. Mr. S. Powel presented 20 species, Dr. W. Gibson 16, Dr Rnschen- 

 berger 17, and 10 othprs were derived from Capt. J. M. Dow, H. C. AV'ood, T. 

 Norris, W. M. Gabb, J. T. Darby and Mr. Vanderslice. 



Mollu-'iJcs. — Lieut. T. T. Field presented a fine collection of shells from the 

 Bay of Panama and other places; G. W. Tryon, Jr., prei^ented 80 sjiecies of 

 Helix; S. S. Haldeman 8 species Ancylus; and 70 species of shells were pre- 

 sented by G. Lincecum, T. Prime, G. W. Tiyon, Jr., Dr. Ruscbenberger, T. Bland, 

 W. G. Binney, J. L. Mackey, Dr. Showalier, A. L. Heermann and M. Miles. 



Articulates. — The Smithsonian Institution presented 55 species of Crustacea, 

 Geo. Davidson 12 species; and others were presented by Capt. J. M. Dow, J. 

 Starr, Dr. Jos. Wilson, J. T. Darbj' and C. S. Westcott. 



Of insects. Dr. A. L. Heermann presented a collection from Texas ; and sev- 

 eral specimens were obtained from Lieut. Field and A. Wilson. There were also 

 presented several spiders, scorpions, and myriapods by Lieut. Field, H. C. Wood, 

 J. T. Darby. 



Radiate.i. — The Smithsonian Institution prescnt-^d 35 species of corals, types 

 described by Dana. Thirty-six echinodernis of 25 species were presented by 

 Dr. W. F. Atlee, Capt. J. M. Dow, S. Powel, Dr. W. Gibson, Lieut, T. Y. Field, 

 Dr. Ruscbenberger, and Dr. F. W. Lewis. Four other radiates were presented 

 by M. Newkirk, Dr. Cleburne and S. Powel. 



Anatomy. — Dr. Jonathan C. Letterman, U. S. A., presented two skeletons of 

 the camel, 1 of the Rocky Mountain sheep, and the skull of a grizzly bear. 

 Dr. Heermann presented 8 skulls of mammals, Geo. Davidson 4, Mr. Krider 1, 

 and Dr. D. P. Heap an ancient Roman skull. Miscellaneous specimens were 

 presented bj' R. G. Curtin, Capt. Dupont, Dr Cleburne, C. E. K. Kortright, 

 R. E. Griffith, C. P. Eakin, Geo. Davidson and Dr. F. G. Smith. 



Fossils, — An interesting collection of mosasaurus remains from New Jersey, 

 were presented by Dr. J. H. Slack, J. Hopper, 0. C. Herbert and U. Smock. 

 Some cretaceous crocodilian and shark remains were picsented by W. W. Lamb, 

 a collection of miocene shark teeth by H. C Yarrow, a miocene cetacean ver- 

 tebra by T. J. Yarrow, Jr., M. D., a fine Carcharodon megalodon tooth by Dr. 

 J. M. Corse, and a few other vertebrate remains by Rev. W. A. Breed, H. C. 

 Yarrow, Abbott and Slack. S. S. Lyon presented 20 fine species of carbonifer- 

 ous fossils from Kentucky, Dr. Slack 98 species from the Isle of Man ; and 

 Dr. W. C. Dixon presented 8 species of coal plants from Virginia. Dr. W. 



1861.] 



35 




530 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Spillman presented a collection of eocene shells from Mississippi ; and a num- 

 ber of other fossils were received from EUwood Morris, A. L. Gerhart, C C. 

 Abbott, H. C. Wood, H. C. Yarrow, G. Lincecum, A. L. Heermann, W. M. 

 Gabb, S. Ashmead and the Smithsonian Institution. 



3Iinerals. — The British Consul, C. E. K. Kortright presented a fragment of a 

 meteorite from India. A few minerals were presented by Dr. F. A, Genth, 

 T. Y. Field, J. H. Slack, W. Cleburne, Gillette & Matthews, Mr. Struthers, E. L. 

 Perkins, J. D. Sergeant, G. W. Farquhar, J. 0. Fisher and W. W. Wright. 



Botany. — Mr. Gideon Lincecum presented a collection of Texas plants com- 

 prising about 1000 species, S. B. Buckley a collection of Australian plants, 

 Dr. J. L. LeConte a small collection from the herbarium of his father, the late 

 Maj. LeConte, and Dr. I. L Hayes a collection of living Arctic plants obtained 

 in his late expedition. 



Miscellaneous. — Mr. E. Samuels presented 33 mounted microscopic specimens, 

 chiefly dialomes ; F. W. Lewis 93 specimens, chiefly minute injections, sections 

 of bones and teeth, &c. ; and S. Powel 52 specimens. Mr. Pennock presented 

 specimens of cannel coal and a variety of its products ; and several rocks, &c. 

 were presented by J. T. Piggott, G. Lincecum, Burke and Slack, and 0. N. 

 Rood. 



Submitted by JOSEPH LEIDY, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



The election of oiBcers for the ensuing year was held, in accordance 

 with the By-Laws, with the following result : 



President, IsAAC Lea, LL. D. 



Vice Presidents, Robert Bridges, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux. 



Corresponding Secretary, Thomas Stewardson, M. D. 



Recording Secretary, B. Howard Rand, M. D. 



Librarian, E.. E. Grifl&th. 



Treasurer, Wm . C. Henzey . 



Curators, Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 J. D. Sergeant. 



A uditors , W m . S . Vau x, 



Joseph Jeanea, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



Publication Committee, Wm. S. Vaux, 



Isaac Lea, 

 Robert Bridges, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 Thomas Stewardson. 



tDec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



ELECTIONS IN 18 61. 



The following persons were elected members : 



Jan, 29. Jasepb S. Lewis, Isaac Norris, M. D., Wm. H. Ashhurst, 



Feh. 26. "Wm. M. Canby, Thos. K. Conrad, George M. Conarroe. 



March 26. Charles Schaffer, M. D., Wm. BucknelK 



April 30. John Kice. 



July 30. Edward D. Cope. 



Nov. 26. H. H. Furness, A. D. Brown. 



The following persons were elected Correspondents : 



Jaru 29. M. F. E. Guerin-Meneville, Paris. 



Feb. 26. E. R. Showalter, Uniontown, Alabama ; M. J. C. Cornay, 

 Paris; A. "W. Chapman, M. D., Apalaehicola, Florida. 



March 26. D. B. McCartee, Ningpo, China. 



April 30. James Lewis, M. D., Mohawk, N. Y.; Alfred Newton, 

 London. 



May 28. W. H. Edwards, New York; James Wynne, M. D., New 

 York ; George Thurber, New York. 



June 25. Bernard R. Ross, Hudson's Bay; John M. Woodworth, 

 Chicago. 



Aug. 27. Elliott Coues, Washington, D, C- 



Oct. 29. Edgar Cowan, Greensburg, Westmoreland Co.,Penia3, 



Dec. 31, Benj. D. Walsh, Rock Island, Illinois. 



1861.] 




632 CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY 



FOR 18G1. 



Letters were received and read as follows, viz, : 



Jan. SlJi. Wm. Spillman, Mobile, Nov. 30th, 1860; accompanyiDg donation 

 to Museum. 



J. D. Graham, Chicago, Dec. I7th, 1860; proposing to publish names of 

 societies, &c., to which the Journal and Proceedings of the Academy are 

 sent ; 



Bergen's Museum, Norway, July Yth, 1860; 



Royal Saxon Society of Sciences, Leipsig, May 1st, 1860 ; 



Natural History Society, Basle, Switzerland, March 18th, 1860 ; 



Geological Society, London, Nov. 17th, 1860; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam, March 24th, 1860 ; 



Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Munich, Jan. 12th, 1860 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, of the Grand Duchy of Nassau, Nov. 3d, 1860 ; 

 severally acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Royai Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam, Aug. 15th, 1860; accompanying 

 donation to the Library. 



I5th. Society of Natural Sciences, Riga, April 2Sth, I860 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Wurttemberg, Sept. 1st, 1860; severally ac- 

 knowledging the receipt of the Proceedings, and accompanying donations 

 to the Library. 



Feb. 5th. Royal University Library, Gottingen, Nov., 1860 ; 



Imperial Leopold-Carolus Academy of Natural History, Jena, Sept. 7th, 

 1859; 



Natural History Society, Dantzig, Oct. 10th, 1860 ; 



New York State Library, Jan. 28th, 1861 ; 



Society of Arts and Sciences, Utrecht, Sept., 1860 ; 



Royal Jablonowski Society, Leipsig, Aug. 2d, 1860 ; 



Batavian Society of Sciences, Rotterdam, Jan. 12th, 1860; severally ac- 

 knowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Theodore Gill, Washington, Jan. 14th, 1861 ; 



F. Roemer, Breslau, Prussia, Dec. 20th, 1860 ; 



Jules Marcou, Boston, Feb. 4th, 1861 ; 



John Warner, Bridgewater, Bucks Co., Penn., Jan. 26th, 1861 ; severally 

 acknowledging their election as correspondents. 



12/A. Dr. Krauss, Stuttgart, Nov. 29th, 1860 ; acknowledging his election 

 as correspondent. 



March 5fh. Lyceum of Natural History, New York, Feb, 25th, 1861 ; ac- 

 knowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



I2th. Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Oct. 10th, 1860 ; 



Senkenberg Society of Natural Sicences, Frankford on the Main, Oct. 9th, 

 1860 ; severally accompanying donations to the Library ; 



Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Berlin, Oct. 18th, 1860 ; accompany- 

 ing donation to the Library, and acknowledging the receipt of the publications 

 of the Academy ; 



Physico-Medical Society, Wtirzburg, Nov. 5th, 1860 ; of the same tenor ; 



E. R. Showalter, M. D., Uniontown, Alabama, March 5th, 1861 ; acknowledg- 

 ing his election as correspondent. 



April 2d. J. du Mesnil Marigny, Paris, March 4th, 1861 ; accompanying 

 donation to the Library ; 




CORRESPONDENCE. 533 



Imperial Institute of France, Paris, Nov, 23d, 1860 ; 

 Roj^al Geographical Society, London, Jan. 10th, 1861 ; 



Society of Agriculture, Science, &c., of Indre et Loire, Tours, Sept. 30th, 

 1860; 

 Natural History and Philosoph. Society, Belfast, Dec. 31st, 1860 ; 

 Bergen's Museum, Norway, Nov. 13th, 1860 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Basle, Switzerland, Nov. 15th, 1860; 

 Eoyal Asiatic Society, London. 



Qth. British Museum, March 21st, 1861; severally aclinowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the publication of the Academy. 



\Qth. J.Henry, Smithsonian, accompanying a catalogue of duplicates from 

 the Munich Library, from which the Academy is invited to select. 



23c?. Royal Society, Edinburgh, Jan. 18th, 1861 ; acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the Proceedings ; 



J. C. Cornay, Paris, April 2d, 1861 ; acknowledging his election as corres- 

 pondent. 



3[ay Ith. Royal Society of Sciences, Liege, July I2th, 1860; 



Royal Danish Society of Sciences, Copenhagen, Jan. 1st, 1860 ; 



Literary and Philosoph. Society, Liverpool, March 5th, 1861 ; severally ac- 

 knowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Natural History Society, Augsburg, Dec. 20th, 1860 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences,, Lausanne, Nov. 10th, 1860; 



Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna, Sept. 4th, 1860 ; 



Society of Physics and Natural History, Geneva, Nov. 1st, 1860; 



Royal Physico-Economical Society, Konigsburg, Nov. 13th, 1860; severally 

 accompanying donations to the Library and acknowledging the receipt of the 

 publications of the Academy. 



Physico-Medical Society, Wurzburg, Jan. 23d, 1861 ; 



Royal Danish Society of Sciences, June 1st, 1860; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Dec. 28th, 1860 ; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Liege, July 12th, 1860; severally accompanying 

 donations to the Library. 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Nov. 18th, 1860; 



Royal Institution, London, Oct. 4th, 1860; severally accompanying dona- 

 tions to the Library and requesting exchanges ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Nov. 3d, 1860 ; acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy and requesting exchanges ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Bamberg, Dec. 15th, 1860 ; requesting ex- 

 changes. 



14^/i. Smithsonian Institution, May 3d, 1861 ; 



Prof. C. G. Forshey, Rutersville, Texas, March 17th, 1861 ; 



June. ith. Smithsonian Institution, May 16th, 1861 ; severally accompany- 

 ing donations. 



J. Lewis, Mohawk, New York, May 6th, 1861 ; 



W. H. Edwards, New York, severally acknowledging their election as cor- 

 respondents ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Madrid, March 30th, 1861 ; 



Asiatic Society, Calcutta, Dec. 6th, 1860 ; severally acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the publications of the Academy. 



nth. Wm. Prescott, Concord, New Hampshire, May 23d, 1861 ; accompany- 

 ing a donation. 



July 2d. Geological Society, London, March 6th, 1861 ; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York, May 4th, 1861. 



23<f. Royal State Library, Munich, Dec. 20th, 1860 ; 



Natural History Society of the Grand Duchy of Nassau, AViesbaden, May 3d, 

 1861; 




534 CORRESPONDENCE. 



Royal Imperial Geological Institution, Vienna, Nov. 20th, 1860 ; 



London Athenaeum, June 11th, 1861; severallj acknowledging the receipt 

 of the publications of the Academy ; 



Professor Henry, Smithsonian Institution, July 9th, 1861 ; accompanying 

 list of duplicates from the Royal Library, Munich ; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Gottingen, Oct. 20th, 1860 ; 



Library of the Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Munich, Dec. 20th, 

 i860; 



Royal Society, London, March 12th, 1861; severally accompanying dona- 

 tions to the Library and acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the 

 Academy. 



Direction of the Werner Societies, Briinn, April 15th, and Feb. 15th ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Feb, 26th and April 16th, 1861; 



Natural History Society of the Grand Duchy of Nassau, Wiesbaden, May 3d, 

 1861; 



Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Feb. 28th, 1861 ; 



Natural History Society of Prussian Rhineland and Westphalia, Bonn, Jan. 

 21st, 1861 ; 



Gustavus Griibner, Leipsig, March 28th, 1861 ; 



Professor Kirschbaum, Wiesbaden, May 3d, 1861 ; severally accompanying 

 donations to the Libary. 



Aug. 6ih. George Thurber, M. D., Michigan, July 22d, 1861 ; acknowledging 

 his election as correspondent. 



ISifi. Botanical Society of Canada, Kingston, Aug. 9th, 1861 ; accompany- 

 ing a donation to the Library and requesting exchange. 



20/A. Biological Society, Paris, Dec. 15th, 1860 ; accompanying donation to 

 the Library. 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta, Oct. 5th, accompanying a donation to 

 the Library and acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Sept. 3d. Alfred Newton, Cambridge, England, May 21st, 1861 ; acknowledg- 

 ing his election as correspondent. 



llth. Linnean Society, London, July 1st, 1861 ; 



Oct. Isi. Royal Society, London, July 1st, 1861 ; severally acknowledging 

 the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Royal Asiatic Society, London, June 29th, 1861 ; accompanying a donation 

 to the Library, acknowledging the receipt of the publication of the Academy 

 and offering exchanges. 



Royal Horticultural Society, South Kensington, W., Sept. 13th, 1861 ; accom- 

 panying a donation to the Library, and agreeing to exchange, as well as ac- 

 knowedging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



J. M. Woodworth, Chicago, Sept. 24th, 1861 ; acknowledging his election as 

 correspondent. 



Oct. 8th. New York State Library, Oct. 3d, 1861 ; acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the publications of the Academy. 



C. E. K. Kortright, British Consul at Philadelphia, Oct. 7th, 1861 ; accom- 

 panying a donation to the Museum. 



Nov. 5th. A. Daubree, Strasbourg, Feb. 8th, 1861 ; accompanying a dona- 

 tion to the Library. 



Imperial Institute of France, Sept. 28th, 1861 ; 



Literary and Philosoph. Society, Manchester, Aug. 31st, 1861 ; 



12th. Batavian Society of Sciences, Rotterdam, Dec. 29th, 1860 ; 

 Natural History Society in Emden, Feb. 4th, 1861 ; 



Imperial Leopold-Carolus Academy of Naturalists, Jena, Nov. 6th, 1860 ; 

 Imperial Society of Naturalists, Moscow, Jan. 4th, 1861 ; 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 535 



Academy of Sciences, Inscript. and Belles Letters, Toulouse, May 22d, 

 1860; 



Zoologico-Botanical Society, Vienna, Dec. 5th, 1860 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, June 25th, and Nov. 15th, 1860 ; — Jan. 18th, May 

 7th. 8th and 10th, 1861 ; 



Entomological Monthly Bulletin, Vienna, Nov. 8th, 1861 ; 



I9tk. Society of Naturalists, Zurich, July 17th, 1861 ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Society of Naturalists, Zurich, July 17th, 1861 ; 



Society of Naturalists, Dorpat, April 13th, 1861 ; severally accompanying 

 donations to the Library. 



Dec. 3d. Literary and Philosoph. Society, Liverpool, Oct. 8th, 1861 ; 



lOth. Geological Society, London, Nov. 30th, 1861 ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Horticultural Society, London, Sept. 13th, 1861; accompanying a donation 

 to the Library and requesting exchange. 



DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



1861. 



Atlee, W. F., M. D. Jan. 8th. 6 specimens, 3 genera, Echinidse. W. Lidies. 

 Abbott, C. C. Feb. 5th. Fossil shells, foraminifera, teeth, &c. Mullica Hill, 



N. J. July 2d. A fine specimen of Alveolites glomeratus. Say. N. Jersey. 

 Ashmead, Samuel. Julij 2d. 3 casts of shells from the post-pliocene formation 



on the east coast of New Jersey. 

 Bland, Thos. July 2d. Anodonta moricandii. Brazil. Schizostoma Spillmanii. 

 Biuney, Wm. G. July 2d. Helix cumberlandiana. July 23d. \ collection of 



20 species European land and fresh water shells, 25 American Cycladidje, 



33 American land shells, and a series of New England marine deep water 



shells. Received in exchange. 

 Bryan, Jas., M. D. Jidy 2d. A mounted specimen of Cynocephalns porcarius. 

 Buckley, S. B. Oct. 1st. Spermophilus Buckleyii. Texas. Nov. 12th. A 



collection of Australian Plants. 

 Breed, Rev. W. A. Nov. 12th. Teeth of Carcharodon and Lamna. Mon- 

 mouth Co., N. J. 

 Burk and Slack, Dec. 24th. Frame and Picture of the Whale. 

 Campbell, J. R. Jan. 22d. Hapale penicillatus, (black headed Marmosette.) 



Brazil. 

 Curtin, R. G. Feb. 5th. Skeleton of Lepus sylvaticus. Pennsylvania. 

 Cleburne. Feb. 5th. Tooth of Elephas Indicus. 3Iay 7th. Obsidian and two 



species Gorgonia. 

 Corse, Jas. M., M. D. Jan. Sth. 3 specimens Sciurus hudsonius. A]>ril 2d. 



Carcharodon megalodon, tooth fished up in the Delaware below Bombay 



Hook. 

 Canby, M. April 2d, Large Gallapagos Tortoise. 



Cope, Edward D. June 4th. Amblystoma Jeflersonianum, Pennsylvania. 

 Dow, John M, Jan. Sth. 8 specimens Fishes, 3 species. Guatemala. 

 Dixon, W. C, M. D. Jan. Sth. A collection of Coal Plants, 8 species, from 



Ohio Co,, Virginia. 

 Dupont, Capt. F. March 5th, Head of Oryx gazella and Damalis pygarga, 



from Western Africa. 




536 DONATIONS TO MUSEU]M. 



Darby, J. T. May 7tli. Crawfish, from Mammoth Cave, Ky. Scorpion and 

 Flying Fish. 



Durand, E. Julij 9th. Camaroptera caniceps. (DuChaillu Coll.) Western 

 Africa. 



Davidson, George. March 5th. Felis concolor. California. March 12th. Eight 

 specimens of Birds, from Ross Mountain, Cal. Skin of Bassaris astuta. 

 California. Maij 7th. Numerous specimens, 12 species Crustacea, Gerho- 

 saurus, Sceloporns, Amblystoma tenebrosum and Notophthalmus torosus. 

 California. Maij 14th. Plate of Whalebone from whale recently caught 

 in the Delaware. July 2d. Skeleton of the Whale recently caught in the 

 Delaware River. 



Eakin, C. P. A])ril 2. Cephalopod and Head of a Fish from Florida. 



Foulke, W. Parker. Jan. 1st. Numenius phjeopus. June 11th. Nigrita 

 canicapilla. July 9th. Hyphantornis persouatus. Western Africa. All 

 from the Du Chaillu Collection. 



Foard, A. J. Jan. 15th. A specimen of the Massena Partridge, (Cyrtonyx 

 raassena,) from Camp Verde, Texas. 



Field, Thos. Y. May 20th. A collection of Shells from the Bay of Panama 

 and other places, comprising many beautiful specimens of numerous 

 species, several Echini, Minerals, and Saw of a large Pristis. Jnly 9th. 

 Tarantula, from Panama. Nov. 5th. Numerous specimens of a large 

 Blatta, fi'ora Panama. 



Farquhar, G. W. Oct. 22d. A small collection of Minerals. 



Fisher, J. Cole. Nov. 5th. Argentiferous Galena. Mexico. 



Gerhart, A. L. Jan. 22d. A small collection of Devonian Fossils, from Dela- 

 ware Co., Ohio. 



Genth, F. A. F,h. 12th. Millerite, 'Sulphide of Nickel.) Lancaster Co., Pa. 



Gibson, Wm. i^ei. 19th. 5 species Echini, from Isle of Guernsey. il/«rcA 5th. 

 A collection of beautifully prepared Fishes of Lake Geneva, IS specimens, 

 16 species ; and 8 species of Bird-skins, from Switzerland. 



Gabb, Wm. M. Feb. 12tli. Egg of Rhea americana. Ftb. 19th. Paludina 

 integra, reversed. March 12th. Palaeoniscus Brainerdi, Thomas, from 

 Ohio ; deposited. April 'lA. Two Coprolites, from New Jersey. Jl/«^ 14th. 

 Four specimens Brittus, from League Island, Philada. Malacobdella, from 

 Venus mercenaria. 



Griffith, R. E. March 19th. Antlers of a Deer, of which one is double. Adi- 

 rondac, N. Y. 



Heap, D. P., M. D. Feb. 12th. Roman Skull, from excavations of Carthage. 



Harris, E. Jan. 1. ffidicnemus. .Tune 11th. Nigrita fusconota. Western 

 Africa. Both from the Du Chaillu Collection. 



Hopper, ,Jas. Jan. 8th. A collection of fragments of Mosasaurus, from Mon- 

 mouth Co., N. J. 



Herbert, 0. C. Jan. 15lh. Vertebra of Mosasaurus, from Monmouth Co., N. J. 



Heuston, G.W., M.D. J/a// 14th. Mustela canadensis and a Monkey, deposited. 



Hayes, I. I., M. D. Dec. 17th. A collection of living Arctic Plants. 



Heermann, A. L. March 5th. 71 specimens (20 species) Reptiles, and a quart 

 bottle of Insects, from Texas. March 12th. Skulls of Cam^lus drome- 

 darius, Dicotyles torquatus, 2 of Canis occidentalis, 2 of Vulpes virgini- 

 anus, Felis concolor and Bassaris astuta. Buteo Harlani, from San 

 Antonio, Texas. Five casts of Fossil Shells, probably cretaceous, and a 

 dicotylodenous leaf, probably tertiary, from Texas. April 16. 3 spec. 

 Bassaris astuta, 3 Lepus artemisia, 2 Neotoma mexicana, 2 Sciurus 

 limitis, from Texas. July 2d. Lepus callotis, female and young ; 3 

 small Field Mice ; 2 Bats and a mole. San Antonio, Texas. Sept. 3d. A 

 collection of Marine Shells, in exchange. Dec. 24th. Unio Heermannii, 

 Lea. Texas. 



Haldeman, S. S. July 2d. 8 species Ancylus, being the originals of Prof. 

 Haldeman's Monograph. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 537 



Henderson, A. A., M. D. July 9tli. 2 spec. Euprinodes rufogularis. (Du 

 Chaillu Coll.) "Western Africa. 



Jeanes, Samuel. Jan. 1st. 3 spec. Anthus Gouldii ; Buceros camiirus. Wes- 

 tern Africa. June lltli. 2 spec. Hylia prasina. (All from the DuChaillu 

 Coll.) Western Africa. 



Jeanes, Jos. Jan. 1st. 2 spec. Querqnedula Hartlaubii, 3 spec. Buceros fasci- 

 atus. (DuChaillu Coll.) Western Africa. i)/ar cA 12th. Spizajtos tyranniis, 

 Cymindis uncinatus, Circus hudsonius and Ortilida poliocephala, from 

 Jalapa, Mexico; 2 spec, -^githalus flavifrons. (DuChaillu Coll.) Western 

 Africa. 



Krider, John. Jan. 15th. Sciurus ferruginiventris. Mexico. Feb. 5th. Lepus 

 americanus ? curious variety. New York. Aug. 20. Skull and foetus of 

 a Porpoise. 



Kortright, C. E. K. Oct. 8. Fragment of a Meteorite which fell at Dhurmsalla, 

 India, July 14, 1860. Oct. 22d. Snout of a Saw-Fish, Southern Atlantic. 



Le Conte, J. L., M. D. Jan. 1st. 67 spec, of Mammals (15 genera, 35 species) 

 and 19 species Vespertilionidse, from the late Major Le Conte's collection. 

 Buceros cylindricus, Rallus oculens, 3 spec. (Du Ch?allu Coll.) Western 

 Africa. June 11th. A small collection of Plants from the Herbarium of 

 the late Major Le Conte. July 9tli. 3 spec. Camaroptera tincta. (Du 

 Chaillu Coll.) Western Africa. 



Lewis, F. W., M. D. Jan. 8th. Asterias, from Japan. March 19th. Micros- 

 copic specimens, consisting of injections, sections of bones, teeth, &c. 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. J«n. 1st. Rhynchops. (Du Chaillu Coll.) Western Africa. 

 Jitwe 11th. 3 spec. Cisticola. (Du Chaillu Coll.) Western Africa. 



Lea, Isaac. Jaw. 1st. 2 spec. Buceros atratus. (DuChaillu Coll.) W'^steru 

 Africa.) .June \lih. Parisoma olivascens. (Du Chaillu Coll.) W.Africa. 



Logan, J. D., M. D. .Tan. 1st. Buceros fistulator. (DuChaillu Coll.) Western 

 Africa. June 11th. 3 spec. Nigrita luteifrons. (DuChaillu Coll.) Western 

 Africa. 



Lincecum, G., M. D. M'rch 12th. A collection of 800 specimens of Plants 

 from Texas ; a collection of 26 species of Shells ; also Exogyra arietina 

 and several specimens of rocks, from Austin, Texas. May 7th. A col- 

 lection of 682 spec, of Plants from Texas. 



Lamb, W. W. Feb. 12th. Fossil Vertebra of a Shark, and a collection of 

 Crocodilian remains, from Blackwoodtown, N. J. 



Letterman, J. C, M. D. Nov. 5th. Two skeletons of the Camel, one of the 

 Rocky Mountain Sheep, and Skull of a Grizzly Bear ; 2 specimens, in 

 skin, of Lophortyx, Merula n.-Bvia, Tantalus loculator and Podylymbus 

 carolineusis, from Fort Tejon, Cal. 



McCall, G. A. Jet/?. 1st. 2 spec. Laniarus cruentus. (DuChaillu Coll.) West- 

 ern Africa. July ^th.. Erythrocercus McCallii. (DuChaillu Coll.) West- 

 ern Africa, 



Morris, E. Jan. 8th. Reptilian Tooth, from Coal Fields of Chatham Co., N. C. 



Mackey, J. L. March 12th. 6 species Land Shells, from Coriseo Island, Coast 

 of Guinea. 



Matthews, G. D. May 7th. Magnetic Iron Ore, from Lake Ontario. 



Miles, Manley. June lltli. Unio rudis and Planorbis truncatus. Michigan. 



Mitchell, S. Weir, M. D. Jan. 1st. Stiphrornis erythrothorax, 2 spec. (Du 

 Chaillu Coll.) Western Africa. 



Mitchell, E. C. July 9th. Three Salamanders. July 23d. Two spec. Tropido- 

 notus sipedon. 



Norris, Thaddeus. March 5th. A species of Osraerus. Schuylkill River. 



Newton, A. April 9th. Nest and Eggs of Ampelis garrulus. 



Newkirk, Mrs. M. Dec. 24th. A fine specimen of Coral. South Pacific Ocean. 



Orthwein, Mr. Jan. 1st. Hylatomus pileatus, from near Philadelphia. 



Powel, J. Hare. Jan. 1st. 2 spec. Tringa maritima. Newport, R. I. 



Piggott, J. T. Jan. 8th. Curious bent layer of coal slate. Tamaqua, Pa. 




538 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Powel, Samuel. Jan. 8th. 20 species of Fish, 3 Asterias and 3 Echinus, from 

 Newport, R. I. Jan. 15th. Physalia pelagica, from Newport, R. I. 

 March 19th. 35 Microscopic specimens. Nov. 5th. 17 specimens of the 

 lingual laminae of MoUusks. 



Peunock. Mr. March 5th. Specimens of Cannel Coal, Oils, Parraffine and other 

 products of the former. 



Prime, Temple. July 2d. 13 species Corhicula, Batissa and Cyrena. 



Perkins, E. L. Oct. 1st. Satin Spar and Dogtooth Spar. Niagara Falls. 



Rogers, F. Jiilij 9th. 2 spec. Sjcobius cristatus. (Du Chaillu Coll.) W. Africa. 



Ruschenbei'ger. W. S. W. April 2d. Ostrea, from Gibraltar. April 9th. A 

 number of specimens of Pupa, from Spezzia in Sardinia. May 20th. 17 

 species of Fishes, 6 species of Shells and several Actiniae, from the Medi- 

 terranean. 



Rodgers, J. Dec. 10th. Bubo virginianus. Crosswicks, N. J. 



Reed, J. Jan. 15th. Leg Bone ? Mosasaurus. 



Rood, 0. N. Dec. 24th, Stereoslide of Sun Stone. 



Spillman, Wm., M. D. Jan. 1st. 26 species of Eocene Fossils and 6 species 

 undetermined, from Mississippi. 



Smock, Uriah, ,/an. 15th. Fragments of a long bone of Mosasaurus. Mon- 

 mouth Co., N. J. 



Slack, .J. H., M. D. Jan. 1st. Skeletons of Felis domestica, Erinaceus euro- 

 p2eus,Rana rufiventer, Lepus cuniculus, deposited. Jan. 15th. A collection 

 of fragments of the lower jaw of Mosasaurus, from marl pits of 0. C. 

 Herbert, Monmouth Co., N. J. ; also two specimens of Lignite. Sacral 

 vertebrae of Hadrosaurus, N. J., Belideus flaviventer. Australia. Ja?<. 22d. 

 98 specimens of Fossils, from the Carboniferous Limestone of the Isle of 

 Man. Feb. 5th. Five specimens of Minerals, from the Laxey mines. 

 Isle of Man. Feb. 12th. 63 eggs, 27 species, from Minnesota. March 5th. 

 Fossil jaw of a Muskrat. Mercer Co., N.J. March 12th. Melanerpes 

 erythroceplialus and Sialia Wilsonii, from Minnesota. A curious variety 

 of Mephitis mephitica, from Crosswicks, N. J. Antlers of Cervus vir- 

 gianus, first year's growth, Warren Co., Penna., deposited. March 19th. 

 A small collection of Cretaceous Fossils, from Crosswicks, N. J. April 2d. 

 Mus decumanus, mounted. July 23d. Ambloplites pomotis, Oakwood, 

 N. J. Sept. 17th. 2500 specimens, 110 species, 84 genera Marine ani- 

 mals, comprising Fishes, MoUusks, Annelides, Radiates, &c., from the 

 coast of Maine. Oct. 8th. A fine collection of Monkeys, a number of 

 them mounted, containing 16 specimens — skulls of Leo capensis, Thero- 

 pithecus gelada. Semnopithecus rubricundra, Macacus radiatus, Macacus 

 philippinensis, and Crocuta brunea ; skeletons of Gerbillus afer and 

 Molossus rufus, deposited. 



Smithsonian Institution. Feb. 5th. A collection of 55 species of Crustacea. 

 Feb. 19th. A collection of 30 species of Mammals. May 14th. A, collec- 

 tion of 35 species of Corals, types of those described by Prof. J. D. Dana. 

 June 4th. A collection of 175 species of fishes, from various localities, 

 chiefly American. July 9th. 2 species of Lanius borealis. Rocky Moun- 

 tains. Decern. 3d. 2 species of fossil Oyster, from Cape St. Lucas. 



Smithsonian Institution and H. C. Wood, jr. Feb. 12th. A collection of 

 Tertiary Fossils, types of species described in the last No. of the JournaL 



Samuels, E. March 19th. 33 specimens for the microscope. 



Starr, Jas. March 19th. Conchoderma parasitic on Orthagoriscus, from New- 

 port, R. I. 



Smith, Aubrey H. July 9th. Camaroptera superciliosa, (DuChaillu coll.) 

 Western Africa. 



Smith, Chas. E. July 9th. Euprinodes schistaceus, (Duchaillu Coll.) West 

 Africa. 



Sergeant, J. D. Oct. 15th. A fine specimen of Malachite. Lebanon Co., 

 Penna. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 539 



bmith, F. G., M. D. Dec. 17th. Portiou of a skull of the Rocky Mountaia 

 sheep. 



Showalter, E.R., M.D. Fe6. 19th. Neretina Showalterii. Coosa River, Alabama. 



Sitgreaves, Thos. July 9th. A fine specimen of the Snow Owl, Nyctea nivea. 

 Near Easton, Penna. 



Struthers, Wm. Sept. 3d. Calamite. New Hampshire. 



Trautwine, J. C. June 11th. Nigrita bicolor, (DuChaillu Coll.) Western 

 Africa. 



Tryon, G. W., Jr. July 2Zd. 80 species of European and West Indian Helices, 

 not in the collection of the Academy. Aug. 20th. 100 species of Land 

 Shells, in exchange. Dec. 3d. 2 species of Polyzoa. Pacific. Sept. 3d. 

 10 species of Uuiones. Coosa River, Alabama. 



Thomas, A. C. Dec. 3d. A specimen of Vidua paradisea. Africa. 



Uhler, W. M., M. D. July 9th. 2 species of Euprinodes olivaceus, (Du- 

 Chaillu Coll.) Western Africa. 



Vanderslice, A. Sept 3d. A large Remora. 



Vaux. Wm. S. Jan. 1st. 2 species of Cossj^ja poensis, (DuChaillu Coll.) 

 Western Africa. April 9th. Mesotype. Bergen Hill, N. J., in exchange. 

 June 11th. 3 species of Parisoma melarinia, (DuChaillu Coll.) Western 

 Africa. Phos. of Lead and Calamine, from England, in exchange. 



Van Amburgh's Menagerie Company. Oct. 1st. Macacus nemestrinus and 

 Cercopithecus rufoviridis. 



Wood, W. S. March 12th. Charadrius vociferus, very young. Chester Co., 

 Penna. 



Westcott, C. S. April 9th. 8 species of Ophiura, Asterias and Spatangus ; a 

 small Crustacean. 5 birds' nests and about 15 species of birds' eggs. 



Wood, C. J. ,TuIy 9th. Peristera Geofifroyi. Rio La Plata. 



Wright, Mr. Dec. 3d. 2 species of Granite, containing Garnets. Chester Co., 



Penna. 

 Wilson, T. B., RL D. Jan. 1st. Peristera Geofifroyi. Brazil. The following 

 birds, from (DuChaillu Coll.) Western Africa : Geocichla compsonota, Tur- 

 dirostris fulvescens, 3 species ; Sula capensis, 120 species ; Sterna, 4 

 species ; Calidris arenaria, Gymnoburco. Jurie 11th. Macrosphenus fiavi- 

 cans, 2 species ; Trichophorus notatus, 2 species ; Andropadus latirostris, 

 2 species ; Glareola cinerea, 2 species ; Strepsilas interpres, Totanus 

 hypoleucus, iEgialitis pecuarius, iEijialitis marginatus and iEgialitis 

 zonatus. July 9th. Hyphantornis cinctus. Bias musicus, Trochocercus 

 nitens, 3 species ; Trochocercus ? 2 species ; Porphyrio alleni, 2 species ; 

 Lobivanellus, Squatarola helvetica, Lymnicorax flavirostris, Himantornis 

 hsematopus, Geronticus olivascens, 3 species. 



Wood, H. C, Jr. May 7th. A large collection of objects of natural history, 

 comprising about 53 species of Fishes, 70 species of Echinoderms, Corals, 

 Sponges, Annelides, &c., from New Providence, Bahamas. May 20th. 

 Anolis principalis and Lioceophalus, a number of Spiders and a Star-fish, 

 from Florida and the Bahamas. June 4th. A large Cyclura, from the 

 Bahamas. July 9th. Scisena fama, Polynemus longifilis, Sillago domina. 

 East Indies. 

 Wilson, Aug., M. D. Nov. 5th. 4 Lizards, from Cuba; a Annutia and a 



Mantis. 

 Wilson, ,Jos., M. D. Dec. 24th. A Crab and a Calassa, from Vera Cruz. 

 Yarrow, H. C. Feb. 5th. A collection of Sharks' teeth. Allowaytown, N. J. 

 March 5th. Fossil remains of the Deer. Green sand of N. J. July 9th. 

 A small collection of Fossils. 

 Yarrow, T. J., M. D. Nov. 12th. Fossil vertebras of a Cetacean. Cumber- 

 land Co., N. J. 




540 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



XSGl. 

 JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 



Stockholm. Ofversigt af Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandliiigar. 



Argangen 13, 1856 ; 16, 1859. From the Royal Swedish Academy, 



Stockholm." 

 Kongl. Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar, Band 2, Heft 2, 



1858. From the same. 

 Kongl. Svenska Fregatten Eugenies Resa Omkring Jorden under befal af 



C. A. Virgin Aren 1851 — lb53. Zoologi, 4. From the same. 



NORWAY. 



Urd et Norsk Antiquarisk-Historisk Tidskrift, 1834 — 1847. From the Bergen 

 Museum. 



DENMARK. 



Copenhagen. Ofversigt over det Rgl. Dauske Videnskabernes Selskabs For- 

 handliuger, &c., 1851, 1853, 1859. Copenhagen. From the Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Archiv far die Naturkunde, &c. von der Dorpater Naturforscher 



Gesellschaft, Series 2, Band 2 and 3. From the Society. 

 Riga. Correspondenz blatt des Naturforschenden Vereins zu Riga. Jahrgaug 



11. From the Soc. of Naturalists in Riga. 

 St. Petersburg, Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Tome 2, 



Nos. 1 to 3. From the Society. 

 Memoirs de I'Acad. Imperiale. Series 7, Tome 2, Nos. 4 to 7. Tome 3, 



No. 1. From the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. K. Acad, van Wetenschappen. 

 Jarboek voor 1859. 



Catalogus van de Bockery. Deel 1, Stuck 2, 1860. 

 Verslagen en Mededeelingen, Naturkunde. Deel 10. 

 Verslagen en Mededeelingen, Letterkunde. Deel 5. 



Verslag over den Paalworm, nitgegeven door de Natuurkundige afdeel- 

 ing der K. Akad. van Wetensch, Amsterdam, 1860. 



All from the Royal Acad, of Sciences, Amsterdam. 

 Utrecht. Recherches Astronomiques de I'Observatoire d'UtrecIit, publics par 

 M. Hock. Livr. Ire. 4to. 1861. From the Author, by authority of the 

 Minister of the Interior. 



GERMANY. 



Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande. Band 4, Heft 1 to 4. Band 



5, Heft 1 and 2. From the Soc. of Naturalists, Altenburg. 

 Augsburg. Bericht des Naturhistorischen Vereins in Augsburg. 2d, 3d, 5th, 

 6th and 7th. Maclure Fund. 

 Malakozoologische Blatter. Band 8, Bog. 1, 2. From Maclure Fund. 

 Bericht des Naturhistorischen Vereins in Augsburg. 1859, 18G0. From 

 the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 541 



Bamberg. Uber das Best(>hen und Wirken des Naturforscliendeu Vereins zu 



Bamberg. 1852—1859. From the Society. 

 Berlin. Monatsbi'riohte der Kiniig. Preuss. Akad. der Wissenschaften zu Ber- 

 lin, Jahre ISljO. From the Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences. 

 Register fiir die Monatsberichte, &c., von Jahre 1836 bis 1858. From 



the same. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. Berlin, 1860. Band 



12, Heft 2. From the Society. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereins zur Befurderung des Gartenbaus in den Konig. 

 Preussichen Staaten, &c. Berlin, Nos. 14 — 52, Jahrgang 3, 1860. Nos. 

 1 — 6, Jahrgang 4, 1861. From the Gardener's Soc. - 

 Archiv fiir Mineralosie, Geognosie, Bergbau und Huttenkunde. Berlin, 

 9!h, 10th, 11th, 14th and"l5th Banden, 1836 to 1841. From G. M. 

 Conarroe. 

 Mathematische Abhandlungen der Konig. Akad. der Wissenschaften zu 

 Berlin, aus dem Jahre 1859. Heftes 1 and 2. From the Royal Acad, of 

 Sciences, Berlin. 

 Eutomologische Zeitschrift. Jahrgang 4, 1860. Heftes 2lo 4. Jahrgang 5, 

 und beifeft. From the Entomolog. Soc. of Berlin. 

 Bonn. Verhandlnngen des Naturhistorischen Vereins der Preussichen Rhein- 

 lande und Westphalens. Jahrgang 11, Heft 3. Maclure Fund. 

 The samp. Jahrgang 17, 1860. From the Society. 

 Frankfurt. Der Zoologische Garten, Organ fiir die Zoologische Gesellschaft. 



Frankfurt a. M. Jahrgang 2, Nos. 1 to 6. From the Society. 

 Gwttingen. Nachrichten von der Georg- Augusts Universitiit und der KiJnigl, 

 Gessellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen. Jahre 1860. From the 

 Society. 

 Halle. Die Natur. Band 8. Jahrgang 1859. From T. B. Wilson, on the 



usual conditions. 

 Hanove-r. Bonplandia. Band 7. Jahrgang 1859. From T. B. Wilson, on 



the usual conditions. 



Kunigsberg. Schriften der Konig. Physikalisch-Okonomischen Gesellschaft 



zu Konigsberg. Jahrgang 1. Abtheilung 1. 1860. From the Society. 



Leipsig. Bibliotheca Zoologica, Verzeichniss der Schriften iiber Zoologie, von 



J. V. Carus und W. Engelmann. 8vo. Leipsig, 1861. Band 1st. 



From Mrs. L. W. Say. 



Kosmos. Drifter Jahrgang, 1859. Vierter do. 1860. Hefts 1 to 9. From 



T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Archiv fiir Anatomic, Physiologie xind Wissenschaftliche Medecin. Jahr- 

 gangen 1859, 18G0 und" 1861,' Heft 1 to 5. Maclure Fund. 

 Munich. Verzeichniss der Mitglieder der K. B. Akad. der Wissenschaften, 

 1860. From the Royal Bavarian Acad, of Sciences. 

 Abhandlungen der Historischen Classe der K. B. Akad. der Wissen. 



Band 8. Abtheilung 3, 1S60. From the same. 

 Abhandlungen der Philosophisch Philolog. Classe der K. B. Akad. der 



Wis?en. Band 9. Abtheilung 1, 1860. From the same. 

 Abhandlungen der Mathemat-Phy.-ikalischen Classe der K. B. Akad. der 



Wissen. Band 8. Abtheilung 3, 1860. From the same. 

 Aunalen der Konig. Sternwarte bei Miinehen. Band 12. From the same. 

 Gelehrte Anzeigen. Banden 1 bis 15 und 49 und 50. From the same. 

 Sitzungsberiihte der K. B. Akad, der Wissen. zu Miinehen. Heft 1 bis 

 3, 1860. From the same. 

 Offenbach. Erster Bericht des OfFenbacher Vereins fur Naturkunde. Offen- 



bach-am-Main, 1860. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte, Jahrgang 16, Heft 2, 3. From 

 the Society. 

 AUgemeines Repertorium der Miueralogie, &c., fur das Decennium 1850 — 

 1859, ein index zu den in Leonhardund Bronn's Neuen Jahrbuch. 8vo. 

 Stuttgart, 1861. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 




542 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung. .Tahrgang 21. 



Linnsea Entomologica. Zeitschriftder Entomologisclien Vereine zu Stettin, 



Band 14. 

 Catalogus Hemipterorum von dem Entomologischen Vereine zu Stettin. 



All from the Entomolog. Soc. of Stettin. 

 Vienna. Verhandlungen der Kaiser. Konig. Zoologischen-Botanischen Gresell- 



schaft in Wein. Jahrgang, 1860. Band 10. From the Society. 

 Jahrbiicher der K. K. Central- Anstalt fiir Meteorologie, &c., von Karl 



Kreil. Jahrgang, 1855. Band 7. From the Imp. Acad, of Sciences, 



Vienna. 

 Entomologische Monatschrift. Band 1 to 4, and Band 5, Nos. 1 to 3. From 



the Editors. 

 Jahrbuch der Kaiser. Konig. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. Jahrgang 11, 



1860. No. 1. From the Geolog. Institute, Vienna. 

 Die feirliche Sitzung der Kaiser Akad. der Wissenschaften am 30 Mai, 



1859. Wein. From the Imp. Acad, of Sciences, Vienna. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akad. der Wissenschaften, Mathematischen- 



Naturwissenschaftliche Classe. 1860. No. 6 and Nos. 11 inch and 



Nos. 17 to 28. Wein. From the same. 

 Jahres-Berieht liber die Wirksamkeit des Werner- Vereins zur Greolo- 



gischen Durchforschung von Miihren und Schlesien. 1 to 10. Jahren 



1852 to 1860. From the same. 

 Statuten fiir den Werner-Vereins, &c., von Miihren und Schlesien. From 



the same. 

 Wiesbaden. Jahrbiicher des Vereins fiir Naturkunde im Herzogthum-Nas- 



sau. Heft 14, 1859. From the Society. 

 Wurzburg. Wurzburger Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift, von der Physi- 



kalisch-Medicinishen Gesellschaft. Band 1, Hefts. 2 to 4. From the 



Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Basel. Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel. Theil 



2, Heft 4. 

 Geneva. Bibliotheque Universelle, Revue Suisse at Etrangere. Parts of vols. 



8, 9, 10 and 12. From the Editors. 

 Bibliotheque Universelle, Revue Suisse et Etrangere. Archives des Sci- 

 ences Physiques et Naturelles. New Series. Vols. 4, 5, 6, 1859. From 



Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Memoires de la Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Geneve. 



Tome 15, part 2d, 1860. From the Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 6, 



Bulletin 47. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. Tome 



5. Cahier 1 and 2. From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. Tome 4. 



From the Society. 

 Zurich. Vierteljahrschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Zurich. 



1858, Heft 3, 4. 1859, Heft 1 to 4. 1860, Heft 1 to 4. From the 



Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Antwerp. Bulletin de la Societe Paleontologiquede Belgiquei Anvers. Tome 

 1, Feuilles 4 and 5. From the Society. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoires de la Societe Academique de Maine et Loire. Vols. 7 and 

 8, 1860. Angers. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TD LIBRARY. 513 



Bordeaux. Actes de I'Acad. Imperiale des Sciences, &c. de Bordeaux. Serie 



3. Annee 22, I860. Trimestre 1. From the Acad, of Sciences, Belles- 



Lettres and Arts of Bordeaux. 

 Caen. Bulletin de la Socitt5 LinnJenne de Normandie. Vol. 5tne. Annue 



1859 — 60. From the Society at Caen. 

 Liege. Memoires de la Societe Royale des Sciences de Liege. Tome 15, 1860. 



From the Society. 

 Paris. Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Paris, Catalogue de la Collection des 



Reptiles, par M. C. DumJril. 8vo. Paris, 1851. Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution. 

 Comptes Rendus des Sceances et Memoires dela Societe de Biologie. Tom. 



1, 3d Series. Paris. From the Society. 

 Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, &c., par F. E. Guerin-Menerille. 1860, 



Nos. 11 and 12. 1861, Nos. 1 to 10. From the Editor. 

 Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Impiriale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. 



Tome 7, Nos. 11 and 12. Tome 8, Nos. 1 to 10. From T. B. Wilson, 



on the usual conditions. 

 Annales des Mines. 5me Serie. Tome 16, Livr. 6, 1859. Tomes 17 and 



18, 1860. Tome 19, Livr. 1 and 2, 1S61. From the Minister of Public 



Works, France. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. Serie 3me. Tome 1, Nos. 1 to 4. From the 



Editors. 

 Journal Universelet Hebdomadairede Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, 



&c. Tomes 4 and 5. Paris, 1831. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Annales des Mines. 4me S>jrie. Tome 17, Livr. 1, 1850. 5me Serie. 



Tome 10, Livr. 4, 1856. From Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Bulletin Mensuel de la SocictG Zoologique d'Acclimatation. Tome 6, No. 



9. Tome 7, No. 1. From Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. Tome 7, 1858, and Tome 8, Nos. 3 and 4. 



From Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. SLTie 4. Annee 7. Tome 11, 12, 13 



and 14, Nos. 1 to 4. Botanique. Tome 11, 12, 13, 14 and four Nos. 



of vol. 15. Zoologie. Maclure Fund. 

 Journal de la Physiologie de I'Homme et des Animaux dij E. B. Sequard. 



Tomes 2 and 3, 18-59 and '60, and vol. 4, 3 Nos., 1861. Maclure Fund. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rendiconto delle Sessioni dell' Academia delle Scienze dell' Insti- 

 tute di Bologna. 1857 — 1859. From the Academy. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Dublin. Transactions of the Royal Irish Acad. Vol. 24, part 1st. From the 



Academy. 

 Journal of the Royal ^Dublin Soc. Nos. 18 and 19, 1860. From the 



Society. 

 Journ. of the Geolog. Soc. of Dublin. Vol. 8, part 3, 1860. From the 



Society. 

 Edinburgh. Edinburgh New Philosoph. .Journal. Vol. 11, No. 1. Vol. 12, 



No. 2. Vol. 13, Nos. 1 to 3. From the Editors. 

 Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. No. 175, April, 1848. From 



G. M. Conarroe. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Soc. of Edinburgh. Pages 212 to 348 incl. 



Session of 1859 — 60. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Royal Soc. of Edinburgh. Vol, 22, part 2d. Ses- 

 sion 1859-60. 

 Supplement to the same. From the Society. 

 London. List of the Geological Soc. Sept. 1st, 1860. 




544 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Quarterly Journ. of the Geolog. Soc. Vol. 16, part. 4. Vol. 17, parts 1 



to 3. Fr m the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. 11, Nos. 42, 43, 45 and 46. From 



the Society. 

 Notes and Queries : a Mediutu of Intercommunication for Literary Men, 



&c. 4to. London, 1S50 to 1857. Series 1st, vol. 12. Series 2d, 



vols. 1 to 10 inch Also parts 13 and 14. From Dr. Wm. Camac. 

 Do. parts 64 to 70. From the Editor. 

 Journal of the Soc. of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. London, 



vol. 9, Nos. 418 to 440. From the Society. 

 Quarterly Journal of jNIirroscopical Science. No. 28. From T. B. Wilson, 



on the usual conditions. 

 The Athena>um. 4 vols, for 1859 and 1860 ; 1861, parts 397 to 406. From 



T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Notices of the Proceedings of the Meetings of the Members of the Royal 



Institute of Great Britain. Part 10, Nov., 1859, July, 1860. A List of 



the Members, &c., with Pieport of Visitors for 1859. From the Royal 



Institution. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Nat History. 3d Series. Vols. 3, 4, 5, 6, 



7 and Nos. 44 to 47 of vol. 8. Maclure Fund. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society. Vol. 13. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Journ. of the Proceedings of the Linnaean Soc. Vol. 5. Botany, Nos. 



16 to 20 inrl., with two supplements and one to vol. 4. Zoology, Nos. 



16 to 20 incl. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Linnsean Soc. Vol. 23, part 1st, 4to. London, 1859. 



From the Society. 

 List of Liunjean Soc. of London. 1860. From the same. 

 The Accentuated List of the British Lepidoptera, &c. Published by the 



Entomological Societies of Oxford and Cambridge. Oct. London, 1858. 



From the Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Vol. 



18, parts 1 and 2. London, 1861. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Horticultural Soc. of London. Vol. 1. Also a List 



of the Fellows, corrected to June, 1861. From the Society. 

 London, Edinburg and Dublin Philos. Mag. 4th Series. Vols. 17, 18, 



19, 20 and Nos. 137 to 148 for 1861. Maclure Fund. 



Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. Years 



1858, 1859. Maclure Fund. 

 The Zoologist : a Popular Miscellany of Nat. History. Vols. 17 and 18. 



Maclure Fund. 

 Procet^dings of the Zoological Soc. of London. 1S60. June to Dec, 



1860, and Jan. to March, 1861. From the Society. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Soc. of London. Vols. 148, 



149, and parts 1st and 2d of 150. 

 Catalogue of the Officers and Fellows. Nov. 30th, 1860. List of the 



Members, &c. From the Royal Society. 

 Annual Reports of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Soc. 5th, 8th and 



18th to 27th inclusive. Maclure Fund. 

 Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. 2, part 1. 

 Annual Report of the Geolog. Survey of India. 1859—60. From the 



Superintendent of the Survey. 

 Berkshire Medical Journal. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 and 2. From the Editors. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



Augusta. Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 17, Nos. 1 to 4. From 



the Editors. 

 Baltimore. Maryland and Virginia Medical Journal. New series, Nos. 13 and 



14. From the Editors. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 545 



Boston. Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 7, pages 

 353 to the end. Vol. 8, pages 1 to 224. From the Society. 

 Report of the Legislative Committee of Massachusetts on Pleuro- 

 pneumonia. 1860. From Samuel Powel, Esq. 

 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 4, pages 



249 to the end. Vol. 5, pages 1 to 240. From the Academy. 

 Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. New series, 

 vol. 7. From the Academy. 

 Buffalo. Buffalo Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 1, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5. From 



tbe Editors. 

 California. California Farmer. Vols. 14 and 15. From the Editor. 



Proceedings of the California Academy of Natural Sciences. Pages 67 to 

 77 for 1855, and pages 79 to 110 for 1856 and 1857. Also the same 

 complete for 1858 and 1859, with three lithograph plates ; and from 

 January, 1860, to July, 1861. From the Society. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. 31, Nos. 91 

 to 93. Vol. 32, Nos. 94 to 96. From the Editors. 

 The Mining Magazine and Journal of Geology. Second Series, vol. 2, Nos. 



1 and 2. From the Editor. 



New Orleans. Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. 18, Nos. 1 to 3. From the 



Editors. 

 New York. American Medical Times. Vol. 1, Nos. 24 to 26. Vols. 2 and 3, 



Nos. 1 to 24, From the Editors. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. Vol. 7, Nos. 4 



to 9. From the Lyceum. 

 Philadelphia. American. Journal of Pharmacy. Third series, vol. 9, Nos. 1 



to 6, 1861 ; also vols. 8 to 28, in exchange. From the Editor. 

 Dental Cosmos. Vol. 2, Nos. 6 to 12 ; vol. 3, Nos. 1 to 5. From the Editors. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. 3. From the Editor. 

 The North American Medico- Chirurgical Review. Vol. 5. From the 



Editors. 

 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1861, Nos. 81 to 84. From the 



Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 7, No. 64 ; vol. 



8, No. 65. 1860. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Franklin Institute, vols. 41 and 42. From T. B. Wilson, 



on the usual conditions. 

 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 1, from Jan. 1, 



1769, to Jan. 1, 1771. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society Celebration of the 100th 



Anniversary, May 25, 1843. 8vo. From the same. 

 Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 1st series, vol. 3. From the 



same. 

 Transactions of the Geological Society of Pennsylvania, August, 1834 ; 



2 copies. From the same. 



Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Philadelphia, from March to 



August, 1861. From the Society. 

 Smithsonian Institution. Annual Report of the Board of Regents for the 



year 1859. 

 Catalogue of the described Lepidoptera of North America, by John G. 



Morris. 

 Catalogue of the described Diptera of North America, by R. Osten-Sacken. 

 Catalogue of Publications of Societies and of other periodical works in the 



Library of the Smithsonian Institution, July 1st, 1S58. Foreign works. 

 Directions for collecting, preserving and transporting specimens of Natural 



History. Third edition. 

 Instructions in reference to collecting Nests and Eggs of North American 



Birds. 



36 




[UG DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. 12. 4to. 18G0. 



All from the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Patent Office, Washington. Report of the Commissioners of Patents for the 

 year 1860. Agriculture, vol. 1. Mechanics, vol. 2. From the Patent 

 Office. 

 American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings of the Society at the Annual 

 Meeting held in Worcester, Oct. 22d, 1860. Also, April 24, 1861, 

 From the Society. 

 American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceedings of the 

 Fourteenth Meeting, held at Newport, R. I., Aug., 1860. 8vo. Cam- 

 bridge, 1861. From the Association. 

 Proceedings of the Cleveland Meeting of the American Association for the 

 Advancement of Science, 1853. (Suppressed edition.) 8vo. From Dr. 

 John L. LeConte. 

 Geological Survey of Michigan, being the first biennial report of its pro- 

 gress, &c. Lansing, 1861. 



CANADA. 



Canada, Canada Journal of Industry, Science and Art, New series, Nos, 30 

 to 34 and 36. From the Institute. 

 The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist, and Proceedings of the Natural 

 History Society of Montreal. Vol. 5, No. 6 ; vol. 6, Nos. 1 to 5. From 

 the Editors, 

 Annals of the Botanical Society of Canada, vol. 1, parts 1 and 2. From 

 the Society. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Santiago, Chili. Observationes Astronomicas hechas en al Observatorio Na- 

 cional de Santiago de Chile, en los annos de 1853, '55. Par el Dr. 

 Carlos Guillielmo Moesta. 



Annales de la Universidad de Chile, 1858, 1859. 



Revista de Ciencas i Letras. Tom. 1, Ano. 1, 1858. 



Coleccion de Tratadas Celebrados por la Republica de Chile, &c. Tome 1, 

 Santiago, 1857. 8vo. From the University of Chili. 



VOLUMES ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED. 



Accum. A Manual of Analytical Mineralogy, by Frederick Accum. Second 



edition, vol. 1, 12mo. London, 1808. From G, M, Conarroe, 

 Adelung, Fortsetzung und Erganzungen zu C. G. Jochers Lexicon, von Jo- 



hann C, Adelung, 4to. Banden 2. Leipsig, 1784. From the Royal 



Court and State Library of Munich, through Prof. Henry. 

 Agassiz. Notes on the described species of Holconoti, found on the Western 



coast of North America. Boston, 1861. From the Author. 

 Contributions to the Natural History of the United States of America, by 



Louis Agassiz. Vol. 3. 4to. Boston, 1860. From T. B, Wilson, on the 



usual conditions. 

 Selecta Genera et Species Piscium quos in itinere per Brasiliam annia 



1807 — 1820, collegit, &c. Dr. J. B. de Spix, digessit, descripsit, &c. Dr. 



L. Agassiz. 2 vols. 4to. Monachll, 1829. Maclure Fund. 

 Allen. Mineralogical Nomenclature, alphabetically arranged, by Thos. Allen. 



8vo. Edinburgh, 1819. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Andrah Cours de Pathologie interne, par M. G. Andral. Tom. 2. 8vo. Paris, 



1836. From the same. 

 Bacallar. Memoires pour servir a I'histoire d'Espagne sous le regno de Phil- 



lipe v., par Don Vincent Bacallar y Sanna, Marquis de St. Phillipe, 



&c. Tomes 4. 12mo. Amsterdam, 1756. From the Royal Court and 



State Library, Munich. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARF. 547 



Baird. The Birds of North America, by Spencer F. Baird, John Cassin and 

 George N. Lawrence. 2 vols. 4to. Philada., 18tJ0. From John Cassin. 



Barrande. Notice prolimiuaire sur le Systeme Silurien et les Trilobites de 

 BohC'me, par Joachim Barrande. 8vo. Leipsig, 1846. From T. B, 

 Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Barton. Elements of Botany, or Outlines of the Natural History of Vege- 

 tables, by Benj. Smith Barton, M. D. 8vo. Philada., 1803. From G. 

 M. Conarroe. 



Bauhin. Caspar! Bauhini V. C. Pinax Theatri Botanici sive Index, &o. 4to. 

 Basiliffi, 1771. From Dr. J. H. Packard. 



Becker. Journal einer Bergmaniiischen Reise, &c , von W. O. E. Becker. 

 12mo. Freyberg, 1815. Theil 1st. From Gr. M. Conarroe. 



Bentham. The Botany of the Voyage of H. M. S. Sulphur, under the com- 

 mand of Capt. Sir E. Belcher, R. N. The botanical descrijjtions by 

 George Bentham, Esq. 4to. London, 1844. Maclure Fund. 

 Plantae Hartvregianse, by George Bentham. London, 1839—1857. 8vo. 



Maclui'e Fund. 

 Flora Hongkongiensis : a description of the flowering plants and ferns of 

 the Island of Hong Kong, by Geo. Bentham, V. P. L. S. With a Map. 

 Octavo. London, 1861. Presented by the author, through Prof. Gray. 



Berg. Berg & Schmidt's Olficinelle Gewsechse. Band. 3. From T. B. Wilson, 

 on the usual conditions. 



Bergemann. Chemische Untersuchungen der Mineralien, &g., von Dr. C. 

 Bergemann. 12mo. Bonn, 1830. From G. iVI. Conarroe. 



Berthier. Memoires et Notices Mineralogiques, &c., par M. P. Berthier. 8vo. 

 Paris, 1827. From G, M. Conarroe. 



Bertrand. Dictionnaire Uuiverselle des Fossiles, &c., par M. E. Bertrand. 

 Tome. 2. 8vo. A la Haye, 1763. From Y)i\ John H. Packard. 



Billings. Geological Survey of Canada — New Sp -cies of Lower Silurian Fos- 

 sils, by E. Billings, F. G. S. Montreal, ISol. From the Author. 



Elanchard. L'organisation du Regne Animal, par Emile Blanchard, Paris, — 

 viz. : Arachnides, livr. 8 to 16. Oiseaux, livr. 1 to 4. Mammiferes, 

 livr. 1. Mollusques-Acephales, livr. 3. Reptiles, livr. 6 to 10. From 

 T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Bleeker. Over eenige Vischen van Van Diemen's Land, door P. Bleeker te Ea- 

 tavia. Amsterdam, 1S55. 4to. From C. C. Abbott. 



Born. Ignatius a Born, Index Fossilium, &c. 8vo. Prague, 1772. Pre- 

 sented by J. Cheston Morris, M. D. 



Bouillet. Catalogues des Coquilles Vivautes et Fossiles de I'Auvergne, par J. 

 B. Bouillet, Clermont-Farrand. 8vo. 1836. From T. B. Wilson, on 

 the usual conditions. 



Brisson. Ornithologia sive Synopsis, &c. A. D. Brisson. Tomi 2. Lugduni 

 Batavorura, 1763. From Dr. John H. Packard. 



Broun. Essai d'une reponse a la question de prix proposee en 1850, par 

 I'Acad. des Sciences, pour le coneours de 1853, et puis remise pour 

 celui de 1856. Par M. le Prof. Bronn. 4to. Paris, 1861. From th<? 

 Author. 

 Die Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs, von H. G. Bronn. Band 2. 

 From the Author. 



Burmeister. Zoologischer Hand-Atlas, von Dr. Hermann Burmeister. Liefe- 

 rung 6. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Systemitische Uebersicht der Thiere Brasiliens, von Dr. H. Burmeister. 

 Theil 2, heft 3, und theil 3. Maclure Fund. 



Cabanis. Journal fur Ornithologie, Dr. Jean Cabanis. Jahrgang 7, 1859 ; 8, 

 1860, Hefts 1 to 5. 1861, Heft 1, 9th Jahrgang. Maclure Fund. 



Cams. Zur Nichern Kentniss des Generationswechsels, von J. Victor Cams. 

 Svo. Leipsig, 1S49. Prom Dr. Joseph Leidy. 



Castelnau. Expedition dans les parties centrales de I'Amerique du Sud, soa.^ 




548 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



la direction du Comte Francis de Castelnau. Partie 6, Botanique, livr' 

 12, 13. Partie 7, livr. 28 — 30. Zoologie, Poissons, Anatomie, Entomo' 

 logie, Myriapodes et Scorpions, Reptiles et Mollusques. From T. B* 

 Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Chaillu. Explorations and Adventures in Equatorial Africa, &c., by Paul B. 



Du Chaillu. 8vo. N. York, 1861. From Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Chapman. Flora of the Southern U. States, by A. W. Chapman, M. D. 8vo. 



N. York, 18G0. From Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Chaudoir. Enumeration des Carabiques et Hydrocanthares du Caucase, par 

 le Baron de Chaudoir et M. H. Hochhuth. Kiew. 8vo. 1846. From 

 Dr. J. L. LeConte. 

 Memoires sur les Carabiques, par le Baron M. de Chaudoir. 8vo. Moscou, 

 1842—1854. From Dr. J. L. Le Conte. 

 Chemnitz. Mineral und Bergwercks Lexicon, Chemnitz. 1743. 12mo. From 



G. M. Conarroe. 

 Chenu. Eucyclopedie d'Histoire Naturelle, par le Docteur Chenu. Annelee, 

 Crustaces, Mollusques, Zoophites, Coleopteres, 3me partie. 

 Tables Generales pour les Crustaces, L^-pidopteres, Botanique, Oiseaux, 

 Mammiferes, Reptiles et Poissons. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual 

 conditions. 

 Cima. Ricerche Intorno ad Alcuni Punti di Eletro-Fisiologia. Memoria di 



Antonia Cima. 4to. Bologna, 1858. From the Author. 

 Colton. Atlas of America, by G. W. Colton. Folio. N. York, 1856. From 



Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Conrad. Monography of the family Unionidre, by T. A. Conrad. 8vo. Philada., 

 1836 to 1840. 124 copies, 27 complete, 25 wanting 1 plate, and the 

 remainder 2 plates. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Cornay. Compte Moral et Administratif de I'Exercise 1856, presente par M. 

 Petit, &c. et Rapport sur le Service Medicale, &c., par M. le Dr. Cornay. 

 Paris. 8vo. 1857. 

 Nouvelles Recherches sur le Traitement des Maladies appelees Typhus, &c. 



par Dr. Cornay. Paris. 12mo. 1844. 

 Principes de Physiologie et elements de Morphogenie Generale, &c., par 



Dr. Cornay. Paris. 12mo. 1853. , 



Elements de Morphologie Humaiue, &o., pour Servir a I'Etude des Races, 



par Dr. Cornay. Paris. 12mo. 1850. 

 De la litheretie, par Dr. Cornay. Paris. 4to. 1845. 

 Memoire sur la Pince a Sequestre, par Dr. Cornay. 4to. Paris, 1856. 

 Principes d'Adenisation, &c., par Dr. Cornay. 12mo. Paris, 1859. 

 Memoire sur les Causes de la Coloration des Oeufs des Oiseaux, &c., par 



le Dr. Emile Corn^^iy. 8vo. Paris, 1860. 

 Defense du Memoire, &o., par Dr. E. Cornay. 8vo. Paris, 1860. 



All from the Author. 

 Courtiller. Eponges Fossiles des Sables, &c., des environs de Saumur, par 



A. Courtiller. Antwerp, 1861. Svo. Maclure Fund. 

 Cuvier. Recherches sur les Ossemens Fossiles, par Georges Cuvier. Tome 

 4, 2me partie. Tome 9, complement Ire partie, 2d parte et Tome 10, 

 2me parte, 1835 to 1837. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Dauielssen. Beretning om en Zoologisk Reise foretagen i Sommeren, 1857. 

 Ved D. C. Danielssen. Christiania, 1859. From the Bergen Museum. 

 Syphylisationen anvendt mod Syphylis og Spedalskhed, ved D. C. Daniels- 

 sen. Bergen, 1858. 

 Bidrag til Pectinibranchiernes udvicklings histoire af J. Koren, og D. C. 



Danielssen. Bergen, 1851. With a Supplement. 

 Beretning om en Zoologisk Reise i Sommeren, 1858, af D. C. Dauiels- 

 sen. 4to. Frondheim, 1859. 

 Fauna Littoralis Norwegise, par Dr. M. Sars, J. Koren, D. C. Danielssen. 

 Livraison 2. Folio. Bergen, 1856. All from the Bergen Museiim. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 549 



Des Murs. Description d' Oiseaux Nouveaux de la Nouville Calii'donie, &c., 



par M. M. J. Verreaux et O. Des Murs. Paris, 1860. From the 



Author. 

 Traite G^neral d'OoIogie Ornithologique, &c., par 0. Des Murs. Svo. 



Paris, 1860. From tlie Author. 

 Donders. Ar>liiv fiir die Hollandisclien Beitrage zur natur-und Heilkunde, 



von F. C. Donders and W. Berlin. Band 2, Heft 1 to 4. From T. B. 



Wibon, on the usual conditions. 

 Donndorff. Zoologische Beytriige zur 13 Ausgabe des Linneischen NatursyS- 



tems, von Johann August Donndorff. Bandes 2. 12mo. Leipsig, 



1792. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 D'Orbigny. PalJontologie Francaise, &c., of D'Orbigny, continued by a Spe- 

 cial Committee. Terrain Cretace. Tome 7, Livrs. 1, 2, 3. From T. B. 



Wilson, on the iisual conditions. 

 Dosj. Bryolouia Javanica seu descriptio Muscorum Frondosium Archipelagi 



Indici, Lonibus illustrata, auctoribus F. Dosy et J. H. Molkenboer. 



Fasc. 23 to 26. From T. B Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Dubois. Planches Colories des Oiseaux de la Belgique et de leurs Oeufs, par 



Ch. F. Dubois. Livrs. 137 to 146. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual 



conditions. 

 Dunbar. An Essay on the structure, functions and diseases of the nervous 



system, by J. R. W. Dunbar. Svo. Philadelphia, 1828. From G. M, 



Conarroe. 

 Edwards. Legons sur la Physiologie et PAnatomie comparee de 1' Homme et 



des Animaux, par H. Milne Edwards. Tome 6, parts 1 and 2. Paris, 



1861. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Eichhorn. Geschichte der Litteratur, von .Johann G. Eichhorn. Biinde 7. 



Svo. Guttingen, 180.5. From the R. Court and State Library, Munich. 

 Elliot. Monograph of the Pittidae, by D. G. Elliot. Part 1st. New York, 



1861. From Isaac Lea. 

 Ellis. An Essay towards a natural history of the Corallines, &c., found on 



the coasts of Great Britain and Ireland. By John Ellis. F. R. S. 4to. 



London, 1755. From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Erichson. Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschlands, von Dr. W. F. Erich- 

 son. Band 4, Lief. 3. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Faraday. Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics, by Michael 



Faraday, F. R. S., &c. Svo. London, 1S59. Maclure Fund. 

 Gabb. Synopsis of the MoUusca of the Cretaceous formation, &c., by Wm. M. 



Gabb. Svo. Philada., 1861. From the Author. 

 Gay Lussac. Instruction sur I'essai des Matieres d'Argent, par le voie hu- 



mide, par M. Gay Lussac. 4to. Paris, 1832. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Geinitz. Das K. Mineralogische Museum in Dresden, von H. B. Geinitz. 



Dresden. 12mo., 1858. From the Author. 

 Das Quadersaudsteingebirge oder Kreidegebirge in Deutschland, von Hans 



Bruns Geinitz. Svo. Freiberg, 1849, 1850. Maclure Fund. 

 Gerard. Lud. Gerardi, M. D. Flora Gallo-Provincialis. Svo. Parisiis, 1761. 



From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Gotchalk. Hydrologia, &c., af Johann Gotchalk. Svo. Stockholm, 1748. 



Mineralogia, &c., af J. Gotchalk. Svo. Stockholm, 1747. From 



Dr. John H. Packard. 

 Gould. Birds of Asia, by John Gould. Part 12. 



Mammals of Australia, by John Gould. Part 12. 



Monograph of the Trochilidse, by John Gould. Parts 19 and 20. Pre- 

 sented by T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 U. S. Exploring Expedition, under command of C. Wilkes, U. S. N. 



Atlas, Mollusca and Shells, by Augustus A. Gould, M. D. Folio. 



Philada., I860. From the Author. 



36* 




550 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Graesse. Tresor de livres rares et precieux, ou Nouveau Dictionnaire Bibli(7- 



graphiqiie, par J. G. Theodore Grjesse. Tome 2, Liv. 5 and 6. Tome 3, 



Liv. 1 to 3. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Grellmann. Historischer Versuch iiber die Zigeuner, von H. M. G. Grell- 



mann. Gottingen. 12mo. 1787. From the R. Court and State 



Library, Munich. 

 Gruson. Blicke in das Universum, &c., von L. Gruson. 8vo. Leipaig, 1858. 



From G. Grrebner. 

 Guerin-Meneville. Species et Iconographie Generique des Animaux Arti- 



cules, &c. Ire Partie. Coleopteres, Livr. 5, par M. Guerin-Meneville. 



Svo. Paris, 1846-47. From Dr. J. L. Le Conte, in exchange. 

 Guidoni. Osservazioni Geognostiche e Miueralogiche sopra i monti che cir- 



condano il Golfo della Spezia, di Girolamo Guidoni. 8vo. Geneva, 



1827. From T. B. Wilson, ou the usual conditions. 

 Giinther. Catalogue of the Acanthopterygiau Fishes in the collection of the 



British Museum, by Dr. Albert Giinther. 2d vol. London. Svo. 18G0. 



Maclure Fund. 

 Hallowell. Report upon the Reptilia of the North Pacific Exploring Expe- 

 dition, by Edward Hallowell, M. D. From E. D. Cope. 

 Hausleutner. Geschichte der Araber in Sicilien, &c., von Philipp W. G. 



Hausletitner. Biinde 4 in 2. From the R. Court and State Library of 



Munich. 

 Hawks. Narrative of the Expedition of an American Squadron to the China 



Seas and Japan, in the years 1852, 1853 and 1854, under the command ol 



Com. M. C. Perry, U. S. N., by order of the Government of the United 



States, by Francis L. Hawks. 3 vols. 4to. Washington, 1856. From 



John S. Williams. 

 Hermann. Der Raupen-und Schmetterlingsjiiger von Paul Hermann. Svo. 



Leipsig, 1859. From Gustavus Grajbner. 

 Hewitson. Exotic Butterllies, being illustrations of new species, by Wm. C. 



Hewitaon. Parts 37 to 40. From T. B. Wilson, ou the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Hind. Narrative of the Canadian Red River Exploring Expedition of 1857, 



and of the Assinniboine and Saskatchewan Exploring Expedition of 



1858, by Henry Youle Hind. Vols. 2, Svo. London, 1860. From 



Mrs. Lucy W. Say. 

 Hitchcock. A Report on the Sandstone of the Connecticut Valley, especially 



its fossil footmarks, &c., by Edward Hitchcock. 4to. Boston, 1858. 



From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Hochhiith. Beitrage zur niicheren Kentniss der Staphylinen und der Rus- 



selkiifer Russlands, von J. H. Hochhuth. Svo. Moscou, 1851. From 



J. L. Le Conte. 

 Holmes. Post-Pleiocene Fossils of South Carolina, by Francis S. Holmes. 



Nos. 11 to 15. 4to. Charleston, 1860. From the Author. 

 Inzani. Sulle origini, &c-, di varii fasci nervosi del cervello, by G. Inzani 



and A. Lemoigne. Svo. Parma, 1861. 

 Jan. Iconographie generale des Ophidiens, par M. le Prof. Jan. Ire Livr. 



Milan, 1860. 4to. From the Author. 

 Jars. Voyages Metallurgiques ou Recherches et Observations sur les mines, 



&c. 3 vols. 4to. Lyons, par feu M. Jar-. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Jocher. AUgemeines Gelehrten-Lexicon, von Christian Gottlieb Jocher. 4to. 



Biinde 4. Leipsig, 1750. From R. Court and State Library, Munich. 

 Jordan. Mineralogische berg imd hiitten nuinnische Reise-bemerkungen 



vorzuglich in Hessen, &c., von Dr. Johann Ludwig Jordan. 12mo. 



Gottingen, 1S03. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Junghuhn. Topographische und Naturwissenschaftliche Reisen durch Java, 



von Dr. F. Junghuhn. Svo. Magdeburg, 1845, and folio atlas. From 



G. Graebner. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 551 



Kaup. Beitrffige zur Urweltliclien Sseugethiere. Heft 5. From T. B. Wilson, 



on the usual conditions. 

 Kocli. Die Aracliniden, von C. L. Kocli. 4 vols. 8vo. text ; 4 vols. 8vo. 

 plates. Maclure Fund. 

 Uebersicht des Arachnidensystems, von C. L. Koch. 1 vol. 8vo. text ; 

 1 vol. 8vo. plates. Maclure Fund. 

 Kramer. Gul. Hen. Kramer, Elenchus Vegetabilium, &c. Svo. Vienna, 



1756. From Dr. John H. Packard. 

 Kriiger. Biographia Botanica, von Dr. M. S. Kriiger. Berlin, l-i\. 1 vol. 



Svo. Maclure Fund. 

 Kuhn. Manuscript Notes of the Lectures of Linnnsus on Zoology, Botany, &c., 

 by Adam Kuhn, in Fahlein in 1734, and in Upsala in 17(i4. 4to. vols. 2. 

 From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Kunth. Enumeratio Plantarum, &c., Auctore Carolo Sigismondo Kunth. 

 Tomi 4 et Supplementum Tomi Primi. Svo. Stutgardia, 1843. Maclure 

 Fund. 

 Lemberg. Posthumous Works of R. Lemberg, on the wonders of Animal 



Magnetism. Svo. Boston, 1843. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Lampadius. Handbuch zur Chemischen Analyse der Mineral-Korper, von 



W. A. Lampadius. Svo. Freyberg, 1801. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Lemery. Het Pliilosophische Laboratorium, &c., of Nicolaus Lemery. 12mo. 



Amsterdam, 1683. From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Linnseus. Car. a Linne, Mantissa Plantarum, &c. Svo. Holmiee, 1771. 

 From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Car. a Linne, Systema Nature, kc. Tome 1. Pars 1 and 2, Svo. Editio 

 12. Reformata. Holmije, 177(5. Museum-Ludovicas Ulricffi Regin?e 

 Succorum, &c. A Car. v. Linne. Svo. Holmife, 1764. Petri Artedi 

 Sueci, Medici, Ichthyologia. Edidit. Carolus Linnaeus. Svo. Lugduni 

 Batavorum, 1738. From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Le Conte. Classification of the Coleoptera of North America, by John L. 

 Le Conte, M. D. Part 1, Svo. Washington, 1861. From the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 

 Ludwig. D. C. Gottlieb Ludwig, Institutiones regni Vegetabilis, &c. Svo. 



Leipsig, 1757. From J. C. Morris, M. D. 

 Lyell. Manual of Elementary Geology, by Sir Chas. Lyell. 5th edition, Svo. 

 Boston, 1855. Also, Principles of Geology, by the same. New edition, 

 New York, Svo. 1854. From Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Malherbe. Monographie des Picides, par Alfred Malherbe. Livrs. 9 to 18. 



From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Mannerheim. Zweiter und Dritter Nachtrag zur Kaefer-Fauna der N. Ame- 

 rikan. Lander des Russischen Reiches, vou C. G. Mannerheim. Svo. 

 Moscou, 1852-53, From Dr. J. L. Le Conte. 

 Enumeration des Buprestides, &c., by the same. Svo. Moscou, 1S37. 

 From the same. 

 Marcy. Exploration of the Red River of Louisiana, in the year 1852, by 



R. B. Marcy. Svo. 1854. From Dr. Janeway. 

 Marigny. Les Librea Echangestes et les Protectionistes Concilies, par J. du 



Mesuilesn-Marigny. Svo. 2me ed. Paris, 1850. From the Author. 

 Martini. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und Chemnitz. 

 Band 9. Lieferung 173, 174, 175, 176. From T. B. Wilson, on the 

 usual conditions. 

 Martin. Memoire sur le Calendrier Musulman et sur le Calendrier Hcbrai- 

 que, par Martin (Rene) d' Angers. Partie Ire. Paris, 1857. Svo. 

 From the Author. 

 Meigen. Deutschlands Flora, &c., von J. W. Meigen. Biinde 3, Svo. Essen, 



1836. From Dr. Joseph Leidy. 

 Menke. Malokozoologische Blatter, von Drs. Menke und PfeilTer. Baude 6, 



7, S. Bogen 1 and 2, and sheets 6 to 8. Maclure Fund. 

 Metcalfe. Caloric, its Mechanical, Chemical and Vital Agencies, &c., by 




552 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Samuel L. Metcalfe, M. D, 2 vols. 8vo. Philada., 1859. Prom Dr. J. 



Leidy. 

 Meyer. Palajontographica, Beitriige zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt, von 



Hermann von Meyer. Band 7. Lief. 4, 5. Band 8. Lieferung 6. 



From T. B. Wilson, on tlie usual conditions. 

 Geschiclite der Schrifter Klarung seit der Wiederherstellung der Wis- 



senschaften, von D. G. Willielm Meyer. Biiude 5. Bvo. Gottin- 



gen, 1802. Prom the Royal Court and State Library, Munich, through 



Prof. Henry. 

 Ernesti Meyer de Plantis Labradoricis libri tres. 12mo. Leipsig, 



1830. Maclure Fund. 

 Michaux. Histoire des Noyers de I'Amerique Septentrionale, par F. A. 



.Michaux. Paris, 8vo. 1811. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 A Treatise on the Resinous Trees of North America, including 4 European 



species, illustrated with plates, by P. A. Michaux. Paris, 8vo. 1819. 



From G. M. Conarroe. 

 The North American Sylva. 2 vols. 8vo. Philada., 1841. 13 sets, com- 

 plete. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Moleschott. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere, 



von Jac. Moleschott. Band (3 ; Band 7, Heft 1 to 6 ; Baud 8, Heft 1 



and 2. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Malsant. Opuscules Entomoloniques, par E. Mulsant. Cahiers 1, 2, 3, 4, (J. 



8vo. Paris, 1852-55. Prom Dr. J. L. Le Conte, in exchange. 

 Opuscules Entomologiques, by E. Mulsant. Paris, 1858 and 1859. 



Livr. 8, 9, 10. Maclure Fund. 

 Murchison. Siluria, History of tlie oldest known rocks containing organic 



remains, by Sir R. J. Murchison. 8vo. London, 1854. Prom Dr. 



.loseph Leidy. 

 Naumann. Naturgpschichte der Vogel Deutschlands. Thiel. 13. Liefer. 8. 



Prom T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Newton. La Chronologie des Anciens Royaumes corrigee, &c., traduite de 



1' Anglais de M. le Chev. Isaac Newton. 4to. Paris, 1728. Prom the 



Royal Court and State Library, of Munich, through Prof. Henry. 

 Nichol. A Cyclopaedia of the Physical Sciences, by J. P. Nichol, LL.D. 



8vo. London and Glasgow, 18(30. Maclure Fund. 

 Norton. On the Hymenoptera of the genus AUantus, in the United States, by 



Edward Norton. Svo. tract. From the Author. 

 Ogilvie. The Genetic Cycle in Organic Nature, &c., by George Ogilvie, M. D. 



Aberdeen, 1861. Prom Mrs. L. W. Say. 

 Overman. The Manufacture of Iron in all its branches, by Frederick Over- 

 man. Philada., 8vo. 1850. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Owen. On the Classification and Geographical Distribution of the Mammalia, 



by Richard Owen, P. R. S. Svo. London, 1859. From Dr. J. H. Slack, 



in exchange. 

 Pallas. P. S. Pallas, Eleuchus Zoophitorum. Svo. Hagse-Comitum, 17<3(>. 



From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Naturgeschichte MerkwUrdiger Thiere. 4to. Peter Simon Pallas. 



Berlin und Stralsund, 1778. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Parsons. Directions for making Anatomical Preparations, &c., by Usher 



Parsons, M. D. Svo. Philada., 1831. Prom A. J. Schafhirt. 

 Pereira. Lectures on Polarized Light, by the late J. Pereira, M. D. Edited 



by Rev. Baden Powell. 12mo. London, 1854. Maclure Fund. 

 Pfeiffer. Novitates Conchologicse, von Dr. Louis Pfeiflfer, Lief. 15. From 



T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Pirona. Florae Porojuliensis Syllabus, Julii Andrese Pirona, M. D. Svo. 



Utini (Udine,) 1855. From Isaac Lea. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 553 



Poej. Memorias sobra la Hist. Nat. di Cuba. Vol. 2, parts 1, 2, 3. From 



T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Conspectus Piscium Cubensium, Extrait des Memorias sobra la His- 



toria Natural di Cuba, &c., par Filipe Poey. Havana, 1861. From the 



Author. 

 Poggendorlf. Biographisch-Literarische Handworterbuch zur Geschichte der 



exacten Wissenschaften, von J. C. PoggendorfF. Lieferuug 4. Ab- 



theilung 2. Bogen 1836. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Power. Itinerario della Sicilia, &c., Opera di Madama Jeannette Power. Svo. 



Messina, 1839. From Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Prescott. Catalogue of the Marine, Fluviatile and Terrestial Shells of Massa- 



chussetts, by Wm. Prescott, M. D. From the Author. 

 Priest. Travels in the United States of America, commencing iu the year 



1793, and ending in 1797, &c., by William Priest. 8vo. London, 1802. 



From Gr. M. Conarroe. 

 Puton. Des Metamorphoses et des Modifications Survenues dans certaines 



Roches des Vosges, par Ernest Puton. Svo. Paris, 1838. From T. B. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Rafinesque. A Monograph of tlie Fluviatile Bivalve Shells of the River Ohio, 



containing 12 Genera and 68 species, by C. S. Rafinesque. 12mo. 



Philada., 1832. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Reeve. Conchologica Iconica, by Lovell Reeve. Parts 200 to 211. From T. 



B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Reichard. Der Passagier aus der Reise in Deutschland, &c., von K. Reichard. 



1st Abtheilung. 18mo. Berlin, 1811. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Reichenbach. Gaa von Sachsen, Einleitung in die Flora von Sachsen, von 



Dr. und Prof. Ludwig Reichenbach. Dresden und Leipsig. Svo. 1843. 



From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Reinhardt. Herpotologiske Meddelelser af J. J. Reinhardt. 4to. Tract. 



Kjobenhavn (Copenhagen,) 1860. From the Author. 

 Rivinus. D. Augusti Quirini Rivini, Lipsiensis, introductio generalis iu Rem 



Herbariam. Lipsise, 1690. Presented by E. F. Rivinus, M. D., of 



Philadelphia. 

 Roemer. Die Silurische Fauna der Westlicheu Tennessee, kc, von Dr. Ferdi- 

 nand Roemer. 4to. Breslau, 1860. Maclure Fund. 

 Rolfincius. G. Rolfincius, M. D., De Vegetabilibus, &c., libri duo. Jena, 



1670. 4to. From J. Cheston Morris, M. D. 

 Rotteck. Allgemeine Weltgeschichte fiir alle Stiinde, &c., von Dr. Carl von 



Rotteck. Stuttgart, 1833. From A. D. Shafhirt. 

 Sandberger. Die Couchylien der Mainzer Tertiar Beckens, von Prof. Dr. Fri- 



dolin Sandberger. Lieferung 4, 5. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual 



conditions. 

 Scharff. Der Krystall und die Pflanze, von Dr. Friedrich Scharflf. Svo. 



Frankfort a Main, 1857. From Dr. Joseph Leidy. 

 Scheuchzero. Ouresiphoites Helveticus, auctore J. Jacobo Scheuchzero, M. D., 



F. R. S. 4to. London, 1768. From Walter Cresson. 

 Schinz. Naturgeschichte und Ahbilduugen der Saugethiere, Vugel, Fische 



und Reptilien, von H. R. Schinz. 4 vols. 4to. Zurich und Schaflf- 



hausen, 1827 — 1836. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Schultz. Bemeikungen iiber das Vorkommen des Bleiglanzes, &c. in Ober- 



schlesien, von Wilhelm Schultz. Hameln, 1813. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Schwenckfeld. Therio-Tropheum Silesije, u Caspar Schwenckfeld. Lignicii. 



4to. 1603. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Scopoli. Annus Historico-Naturalis. 1 — 5. Joannis Antonii Scopoli. 12mo. 



Lipsite, 1768—1772. 

 The same iu German. 1770—1781. F. C . Gunther. From T. B. Wilson, 



on the usual conditions. 




554 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Sowerby. Thesaurus Conchylium. Part 20. From T. B. Wilson, on the 



usual conditions. 

 Spix. Simiarum et Vespertilionum Brasiliensium Species Novte, par Jean de 



Spix. Folio. Mouachii, 1823. Maclure Fund. 

 Stainton. Natural History of the Tineiana. Vol. 6, part 1. From T. B. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Stoppani. Paleontologie Lombardi, par A. Stoppani. Livr. 14 to IS. From 



T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Streubel. Anleitung Naturalien aller Reiclie zu Sararaeln, &c., von A. B. 



Streubel. 8vo. Leipsig, 1851. From Gustav. Graebner. 

 Suckley. Notices of certain New Species of N. American Salmouidae, &c., by 



George Suckley, M. D. 8vo. June, 1861. From the Author. 

 Thomson. Skandiuaviens Coleoptera Synoptiskt Bearbetade af C. G. Thom- 

 son. Svo. Vols. 2. Berlin, 1859— (jO. From Dr. J. L. Le Conte, in 



exchange. 

 Tournefort. J. P. Tournefort, Institutiones Rei Herbarise. Editio altera. 



Tomi 3. 4to. Parisiis, 1700. From Dr. J. H. Packard. 

 Troschel. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, von Dr. F. H. Troschel. Jahrgang 26, 



Heft 2 to 4. From Dr. Troschel. 

 Das Gebiss der Schnecken, par Dr. F. H. Troschel. Leif. 4. From 



T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Troyon. Habitations lacustres des temps anciens et modernes, parF. Troyon. 



8vo. Lausanne, 1860. From the Author. 

 Tryon. List of American Writers on recent Conchology, &c., by George W. 



Tryon, Jr. 8vo. N. York, 1861. From the Author. 

 Vaillant. Botanicon Parisienne, par S, Vaillant. Folio. Leide et Amster- 

 dam, 1727. Maclure Fund. 

 Wachler. Handbuch der Geschichte der Litteratur, von Dr. Ludwig Wachler. 



8vo. B;inde 4. Frankfart-am-Main, 1822 — 24. From the R. Court 



and State Library of Munich, through Prof. Henry. 

 Weinland. Fuhrer durch den Zoologisch Garten in Frankfurt-am-Main, von 



Dr. D. F. Weinland. From the Zoolog. Soc. of Frankfort. 

 Winkler. Beschreibung der Freyberger Schmeltzhiitten Prozesse, von K. A. 



Winkler. 8vo. Freyberg, 1837. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Die Europiiische Amalgamariou der Silbererze, &c., von K. A. Winkler. 



Freyberg. 8vo. 1833. From G. M. Conarroe. 

 Wolf. Zoological Sketches, by Joseph Wolf. Parts 7 to 12. From T. B. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Wollaston. Insecta Madereusia, by T. V. WoUaston. 4to. London, 1854. 



Maclure Fund. 



TRACTS, ANNUALS, &g. 



Bulletin of the Wisconsin Agricultural and Mechanical Association, 1860. 

 From the Association. 



On the fossils brought from the Arctic regions in 1859, by Capt. Sir F. L. 

 McClintock. By Rev. S. Haughton, Dublin, I860. 8vo. Tract. 



On Cyclostigma, a new genus of fossil plants, &c. By the same. Dublin, 

 1S59, Svo. tract. From the Author. 



Croonian Lecture, on the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the ven- 

 tricular portion of the heart of the Mammal. By James Pettigrew. 8vo. tract, 

 1860. From the author. 



Description of the plant which produces the Orchal Bean of Calabar. By 

 J. H. Balfour, M. D. 4to. tract, 1860. From the author. 



Description of Assafcetida plants which have recently borne flowers and 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 555 



tVuit in the Roytil Botanical Garden of Edinburgh. B}"- J. H. Balfour, M. D. 

 4to. tract, 1860. From the author. 



Die metamorphose des Caryoborus (Bruchus) gonagra Fbr. Von 11. L. El- 

 ditt. 4to tract, Konigsburg, I 800. From the author. 



A paper on Diptheria, read before the N. Yoric Academy of Medicine, Jan., 

 1861. By James Wynne, M. D. 8vo. tract. New York, 1861. From the author. 



The aurora, viewed as an electric discharge between the magnetic poles of 

 tlie earth, &c. By B. V. Marsh. 8vo. tract. From the author. 



Microscopic Anatomy of the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. By 

 John Dean, M D. 4to. tract, Cambridge, 1861. From the author. 



Botanical contributions By Asa Gray. Jan., 1861, 8vo. tract. From the 

 author. 



Fifteen tracts on different scientific subjects, from Geo. Frauenfeld. Vienna. 



On the Primordial Fauna of tlie Taconic system. By Joachim Barrande, 

 with additional notes by Jules Marcou. 8vo. tract, Boston, 1860. From the 

 author. 



Notes on the cretaceous and carboniferous rocks of Texas. By Jules Mar- 

 cou. 8vo. tract, Boston, 1861. From the author. 



Documents anciens et nouveaux sur la faune primordiale et le systeme Ta- 

 conique en Amerique. Par iM. J. Barrande. 8vo. tract, Paris, 1861. From 

 the author. 



Contributions to Conchology, (of Prof. C. B. Adams), continued. By E. 

 Chitty. No. 1, 8vo. tract, Kingston, 185.3. From G. W. Tryon, jr, 



Descriptions of new species of Marginella, with notes. By John H. Redfield. 

 8vo. tract, N. York, 1852. From G. W. Tryon, jr. 



On the pre-carboniferous Flora of New Brunswick, Maine, and Eastern Ca- 

 nada. By J. W. Dawson. 8vo. tract, 1861. From the author. 



Die Reptilien und Fische des Herzogthums Nassau. 4to. tract. Von C. S. 

 Kirschbaum. From the author. 



Etudes et Experiences synthetiques sur le metamorphisme et sur la forma- 

 tion des roches cristallines. Par M. Daubree. 4to., Paris, 1860. From the 

 author. 



Rechercheg experimentales sur le striage des Roches du au phenom^ne 6r- 

 ratique. Par M. Daubree. 8vo. tract, Paris, 1858. From the author. 



Memoire sur la relation des sources thermales de Plombieres avec les filons 

 metalliferes, &c. Par M. Daubree. 8vo. tract, Paris, 1858. From the author. 



Grenzen und Grenzgebiete der physiologischen Forschung. Von Dr. C. 

 Harletz. 4to tract, 1860. 



Denkrede auf Alex, von Humboldt. Von Carl Fried. Phil. V. Martins. 4to. 

 tract, 1860. Both from the Royal Bavarian Acad, of Sciences. 



On the production of the Ethyl Bases. By M. Carey Lea. 8vo. tract, 1861. 

 From the author. 



Contributions to Palaeontology. By James Hall. 8vo. tract. From the author. 



Third annual statement of the trade and commerce of Chicago — 1860. By 

 Seth Catlin, Sec. From the Board of Trade, Chicago. 



Report of the 18th Exhibition of the Ohio Mechanics' Institute, held in Cin- 

 cinnati, Sept. to Oct., 1860. From the Institute. 



Carl Ritter; an address to the Amer. Geograph. and Statist. Society. By 

 Arnold Guyot. Svo. tract, Princeton, 1860. From the author. 



Address to the Graduates of the Medical Department of Penna. College. By 

 B. Howard Rand, M. D. From the author. 



Annal of Scientific Discovery, &c. By David A. Wells. From the author. 



Five Photographs of Saurian bones. From Chas. M. Wheatley, Phoenixville. 



Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Exec. Com. of the Young Men's Associa- 

 tion of the city of Buffalo, 1861. From the Association. 



On the genus Raphidophora, Serville ; with descriptions of four species from 

 the caves of Kentucky and from the Pacific coast. By Samuel H. Scudder. 

 Svo. tract, 1861. From the author. 




556 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



On the supposed identity of the Paradoxides Harlani, Green, with the P. 

 spinosus, Boeck. By Albert Ordway. 8vo. tract, 1861. From the author. 



Note on sources of error in tlie employment of Picric Acid to detect the 

 presence of Potash. By M. Carey Lea. 8vo. tract, 1861. Prom the author. 



On the treatment of rattlesnake bites, with experimental criticisms upon 

 the various remedies now in use. By S. Weir Mitchell, M. D. 8vo. tract, 1861. 

 From the author. 



A free examination of Darwin's Treatise on the Origin of Species, and of its 

 American reviewers. By Asa Gray, M. D. From the author. 



Animal Magnetism and Hypnotism. By L. H. Steiner, M. D. Svo. tract, 

 18G1. From the author. 



Curieuses uud volkommenes Tractiitgen von denen beliebten Canarien Vogel, 

 von N. M. N. 18mo. From T. B. Wilson, on usual conditions. 



Lettre sur le pretendu fossile humain des environs de Moret. 12rao., Paris, 

 1824. From T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, &c. Von K. C. von Leonhard und H. G. 

 Bronn. Jahrgang, 1860, Heft 4 to 7 ; 1861, Heft. 1. From the Editors. 



Record of the Progressive Gardener's Society of Philadelphia ; 1st Annual 

 Report for 1860. 8vo., Philad., 1861. From R. Robinson Scott. 



Synopsis of the Physiological series in the Christ Church Museum, Oxford, 

 4tot, 1853. From Dr. Leidy. 



Handelsgerichtliches Verfahren und Erkenntniss iiber die Hamburger Bark 

 Louise wagen Verdachts der Betheiligung im Slavenhandel. Hamburg, 8vo., 

 1842. From G. M. Conarroe. 



Report on the State House Well, (Columbus, Ohio). By J. S. Newberry. 

 8vo., tract, Columbus, 1860. From the Author. 



On Tetradymite, reply to Dr. C. F. Jackson, of Boston. By F. A. Genth. 

 And Re-examination of the Tetradymite from Field's Gold Mine, Georgia. By 

 Dr. F. A. Genth. 8vo. tracts, 1860 and 1861. From the author. 



Jahresbericht ueber die Verwaltung des Medicinal-wesens, &c., der Freien 

 Stadt. Frankfurt, Jahrgang 2, 18&8. From the Society of Physics and Medi- 

 cine, Frankfort. 



Descriptions of new species of Crinoidea, &c. By James Hall. 8vo. tract, 

 Albany, 1861. From the author. 



Dr. J. L. Smith on the Guernsey County (Ohio) Meteorites. 8vo. tract, New 

 Haven, 1861. From the author. 



Forty-third Annual Report of the Trustees of the New York State Library, 

 April 9th, 1861. Svo. From the Trustees. 



Map of Central America, 1856. From A. D. Schafhirt. 



Contributions to Palaeontology. By James Hall. Svo. tract. From the 

 author. 



Notes on new species of microscopical organisms from the Para river, S. 

 America. By Loring W. Bailey. Cambridge, 1861, pamphlet. From the author. 



Catalogue of the Astor Library, part 1st, Authors and Books. Also the 

 Annual Report of the Trustees. N. York, 1861. From the Trustees. 



Publications of Isaac Lea on recent Conchology, extracted from a list of 

 American writers, by G. W. Tryon, jr., and check list of N. American Unionidse. 

 By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Presented by Mr. Lea. 



Monographic Genre Conus. By Chevalier Bernardi. From the Author. 



Observations upon sixteen ancient human skulls found in excavations on 

 the Kirkhill, St. Andrews, 1860. By Joseph Barnard Davis, F. S. A., &c. From 

 the author. 



On the geographical distribution of the land Shells of the West India Isl- 

 ands, &c. By Thos. Bland, F. G. S., London, &c. New York, 1861, Pam- 

 phlet. From the author. 



On some questions concerning the Coal formations of the United States. By 

 Leo Lesqucreux. From the author. 



On the fossil fruits found in connection with the lignites of Brandon, Ver- 

 mont. By the same. From the author. 




ft 



I 





# 



..-^ 







Pioc A':aji Nat Roi Phil^- 



Pl III. 



^^r 



W M G dal 





Pi'oc ftcad Nal Sci PM^ 



P! IV 



■4 a 



Lyon, del. 



Ciri Stone ty A.J Ibtotsoii, 



T. 3mdair's lili, Phil^ 







BINDir^G SECT. OCT 7 1969' 



QH 

 1 



A2 

 V.13 



Biological 



& Medical 

 Serials 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia 

 Proceedings 



4 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 



■:^'-faH',?iM!ty .»<v 





