





PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



^^7 



s-4- 



. PHILADELPHIA. 



1864. 



PHILADELPHIA 



PRINTED FOR THE ACADEMY. 

 1864. 




I 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several Articles contributed by each. 



Canbj, W. M. Notes of Botanical Visits to the lower part of Delaware 



and the Eastern Shore of Maryland 16 



Cassin, J. Notes of an examination of the Birds of the Group Coerebinae, 266 



Fasti Ornithologiae. Part 1 234 



Notes on some species of Birds from South America 286 



Cooper, J. G. On a new Cormorant from the Farralone Islands, Cal 268 



Conrad, T. A. Notes on Shells, with Descriptions of new fossil Genera 



and Species 211 



Cope, E. D. Contributions to the Herpetology of Tropical America 166 



On the Limits and Relations of the Raniformes ••••.- 181 



On a Blind Silurid from Pennsylvania 231 



On the Characters of the higher groups of Reptilia Squamata, and es- 

 pecially of the Diploglossa 224 



Partial Catalogue of the Cold-blooded Vertebrata of Michigan 276 



Coues, E. The Crania of Colymbus torquatus and C. Adamsii compared, 21 



A Critical Review of the Family Procellaridae. Part 1 72 



Part II 116 



Elliot, D. G. Remarks upon a Proposed Arrangement of the Family of 



Grouse, and New Genera added 23 



Ennis, J. Additions to the Catalogue of Stars which have changed their 



Colors 51 



On the Influence of the .Earth's Atmosphere on the Color of Stars ' 161 



Gill, Theo. Notes on the Nomenclature of Genera and Species of Eche- 



neidoidse 59 



Description of a new Labroid Genus allied to Trochocopus 57 



Critical remarks on the Genera Sebastes and Sebastodes 146 




lY. LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Second Contribtition to the Selachology of California.. 147 



Synopsis of the Pleuronectoids of the eastern coast of North America... 214 



Synopsis of the Cyclopteroids of eastern North America 189 



Notes on the Paralepidoids and Microstomatoids, and on some peculiari- 

 ties of Arctic Ichthyology 187 



Synopsis of the Pleuronectoids of California and North-western America, 194 



Descriptions of new generic types of Pleuronectoids 198 



On the affinities of several doubtful British Fishes 199 



Notes on the Family of Stichaeoids 208 



Descriptions of new genera and species of Eastern American Pleuro- 

 nectoids - 220 



Helmnth, C. A., M.D. New species of Mordellestina collected in Illinois, 105 



Lawrence, Ot. N. Descriptions of New Species of Birds of the Families 



Coerebidae, Tanagridae, Icteridse and Scolopacidse 106 



Lea, I- Description of a new Genus of the Family Melanidse 2 



Description of eleven new species of Indigenous Melanidse 3 



Description of Planorbis Newberryi 5 



Descriptions of six new species of Unionidse from Lake Nyassa, Central 



Africa 108 



Descriptions of six new species of Succinea 109 



Descriptions of thirteen new species of Melanidse Ill 



Description of a new species of Planorbis Ill 



Descriptions of five new species of Lymnsea 113 



Descriptions of two new species of Unionidae from South Africa 113 



Descriptions of twenty-four new species of Physa of the United States 



and Canada 114 



New Unionidae, Melanidae, &c., chiefly from the United States 145 



Descriptions of six new Western Asiatic Unionidae 285 



March, W. T. Notes on the Birds of Jamaica. Part III 62 



Stimpson, Dr. Wm. Descriptions of new marine Invertebrata from Pu- 



get's Sound 153 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Synonymy of the species of Strepomaiidse. Part 2, 24 

 Part 3 92 



Winch ell, Alex. Description of a Gar- Pike, supposed to be new 183 



Wood, Dr. H. C. Descriptions of new species of North American Poly- 



desmidae 6 



Descriptions of new species of North American lulidae 10 



Description of new Genera and Species of North American Mjriapoda.. 186 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THB 



ACADEMY OP NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 

 1864. 



January 6th. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



A letter was read from Thomas B. Wilson, M. D., Newark, Del., 

 January 1, 1864, acknowledging his election as President of the 

 Academy. 



The following was presented for publication : "The Crania of Colym- 

 bus torquatus and C Adamsii compared." By Elliott Coues, M. D. 



January 12th, 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Description of a New Genus of the Family Melanidae." " Descrip- 

 tion of Eleven New Species of Melanidae," and " Description of Plan- 

 orbis Newberryi." By Isaac Lea. 



" Thoughts on the Influence of Ether in the Solar System," etc. 

 By Alexander Wilcocks, M. D. 



*' Descriptions of New Polydesmidae," and " Descriptions of New 

 lulidffi." By Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



On leave granted, Mr. Cassin presented the following preamble and 

 resolutions, which were unanimously adopted : — 



Whereas, our eminent and highly-esteemed associate and President, 

 Isaac Lea, LL. D., having declined being a candidate for re-election 

 to the position of chief oflSicer of this Academy, has retired there- 

 from : — 



Resolved, That the Academy does hereby express its most grateful 

 1864.] 1 




2 PEOCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sense of the entire faithfulness, impartiality, and eminent ability with 

 which Dr. Lea performed the duties of President during the length- 

 ened term of his incumbency. 



Resolved, That the thanks of this Academy be hereby tendered to 

 Dr. Lea for his most valuable and important services in the capacity 

 of President, and for his many other judicious and liberal favors and 

 continued and successful exertions for the benefit of this Academy 

 and for the advancement of the interests of {Science in the United 

 States. 



January 19<A. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following was presented for publication : — " Notes of Botanical 

 Visits to the lower part of Delaware and the Eastern Shore of Mary- 

 land." By Wm. M. Canby. 



January 26<A. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



On report of the respective committees, the following were ordered 

 to be published : — 



Description of a new Genus of the Family MEIAVIS.S. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Genus MESESCHTZA.* 



Teeta fosiformis, imperforata. Apertura rhomboidea, inferne canaliculata. 

 Labrum expansum, in medio excisum. Columella laevis, incurvata. Oper- 

 culum corneum ad spiram pertinens. 



When I described the genns Trypanostoma,\ I mentioned the importance of 

 eliminating as many species as possible from the enormously-extended genua 

 Melania. The little shell which I now propose as a new genus has so distinct 

 a character in the incision of the middle of the outer lip, as to mark perfectly 

 its place in the Melanidw of the United States. It difl'ers entirely in the cha- 

 Tacler of the cut from that in Schizostotna, which has, in all the many species 

 I have seen, a more or less deep incision immediately under the suture. The 

 living soft parts have not yet been observed. They may, when examined, 

 prove to have some characteristics quite different from Schizostoma. 



Meskschiza Grosvknokii. — Testa Isevi, fusiformi, tenui, obtuse conicfi, vcl 

 purpured vel vittata ; spira obtus^ conica ; suturis leviter impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus instar septenis, vix convexis ; aperturd magnii, rhomboideu, intus plerum- 

 qud vittat&; labro acuto, in medio leviter ezciso ; columella parum iucrassatd 

 et contortA. 



* Mwx, (rx'^^i central fissure, 

 f Journal ot the Academy of Natural Sciences, vol. T. p. 268, and " Obser- 

 vations," vol. ix. p. 90. 



[Jan. 




f NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 3 



Operculum ovate, light-brown, rather thin, having several volutions, and 

 with the polar point well removed from the left margin. 



Jlab. — Wabash River, Indiana, H. 0. Grosvenor. 



Rsmirks. — I have thirteen specimens of this remirk=ible shell. Eight of them 

 have a well-defiaed though delicate notch on the edge at or near to the peri- 

 phery of the last whorl. Five of the specimens hava no notch, which pro- 

 bably arises in four of them from not being full grown, and in one from having 

 the thin, delicate edge broken off. In all the specimens there is a light line 

 under the sutures, and some have six or seven brown bands, which are dis- 

 tinctly seen on the inside. The channel at the base is small but well defined. 

 In outline, this species reminds ooe of Ooniobasis Vaaxiana (nobis) and Mela- 

 nia (^Ooniobasis) germana, Anth. It is a thinner shell than either, and the notch 

 in the lip removes it from that genus. The aperture is about one-half the 

 length of the shell. I have great pleasure in naming this species after Mr. 

 Grosvenor, to whom I am greatly indebted for many of our Western Mollusca. 



Descriptions of eleven new Species of Indigenous UELANID2. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



QoNiOBASis Embrtensis.* — Testa plicatfl,, subfusiformi, subtenui, tenebroso- 

 oliva, evittata ; spira obtuse conoidea ; sutaris irregulariter impressis ; an- 

 fractibus instar senis, planulatis, superne plicatis ; apertura grandiuscula, 

 subovatd, intus c%ruleo-alba ; labro acuto, leviter sinuoso ; columella inferos 

 parum incrassatS, et contorts. 



Operculum ovate, dark- brown, with polar point near to the base. 



Hah. — Rocky Creek, head branch of Emery Run, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. 

 Lyon, U. S. E. 



GojfiOBASrs UMBONATA. — Test4 nodulata, subfusiformi, subcrassa, obsolete 

 vittata, tenebroso-oliva ; spir4 vald^ obtusa. ; euturis valde impreasis ; an- 

 fractibus irregulariter umbonatis, subsuturis tumidis, ultimo pergrandi ; aper- 

 tura pergrandi, subellipticS. ; labro acuto, leviter sinuoso ; columella, supernb 

 incrassatd, infernfe subsinuosd. 



Hab. — Smith's Shoals, Cumberland River, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, 

 U. S. E. 



Remarks. — This is the fourth species of a natural group which I have de- 

 scribed, and which have a large ear-shaped aperture, — viz. : Melania {Gonio- 

 basis) basalis, Midas, gibberosa and now umbonata. If they be not entitled to a 

 generic place, they may at least be considered a subgenus, for which I propose 

 the name of Eurycselon, from Eygwc, amplus, and Koimy, cavitas, — the aperture 

 being larger than in the Melanidx generally. All the species of Ewrycm- 

 lon have a callus on the columella above, but not below, as in Lithasia, and 

 the base is more or less angular, which is not the case with Anculosa. Those 

 which we have considered as varieties of Anculosa prserosa, Say, which have 

 an angular base, properly belong, I think, to Eurycxlon as well also Anthonyi, 

 Redfield, turbinala, and tintinnabulum (nobis), and some others. When the 



♦ In my paper on New Mdanidm of the United States, published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, in 1861, and more at large in the Journal, vol. v. and in my Observations, vol. ix. I 

 U3ed the names of blanda and Vanuxemii for two new Ooniobasi. Having used both names 

 before as Mei.anise, which now come under the genus Gnniobasis, I propose ti) change blanda into 

 versa and Vanuxemii into Prestoniana, the former, Vanuxemii, having been found at Col. Pres- 

 ton's salt works in Western Virginia. 



Mr. Reeve having published in his "Conchologia Iconica" Melania {Goniobasis) Canhyi (nobis) 

 under the name of " Etmoahensis, Lea," prior to my publication of it, the name of Etrrwahensit 

 must be retained for that species. I therefore transfer the name of Oanbyi to the species which 

 I subsequently published as EUnoahenHs in the Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. t. and '' Observations,'' 

 Tol. ix. pi. 37, fig. 133. 



1834.] 




4 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



soft parts of the four species mentioned first shall be examined, they will, I 

 think, be found to differ from Ooniobasis, Trypanostoma and Lithasia, to which 

 genera they seem nearest allied. The operculum of the only one I have seen, 

 gibberosa, — is the same as Goniobasis and the Melanidse, generally. 



GoNioBASis Albanyensis. — Tests, granulata, conicfi,, subtenui, luteo-olivacea ; 

 epira subelevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar senis, 

 planulatis, superne interdum plicatis, inferne striatis ; apertura grandiuscula, 

 ovata, intus albida ; labro acute, vix sinuoso ; columella aliquant© inflectd et 

 contorta. 



Operculum subrotund, light-brown, very thin, polar point qn the left, near 

 the middle. 



Ilab. — Near Albany and Blue Springs, Baker County, Georgia, Rev. G. 

 White. 



Goniobasis viridostriatis. — Testa virido-striata, fusiformi, subtenui, luteo- 

 olivacea ; spira obtuso-conicA ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus 

 instar quinis, convexiusculis, superne granulatis, inferne striatis ; aperture 

 parviuscuht, ovata, intus vittata ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso; columella aliquanto 

 inflecta et contorta. 



Operculum subrotund, very small, very thin, light-brown, with the polar 

 point on tbe left near the middle. 



Hub. — Flint River, Georgia, Bishop Elliott and Mr. Gesner. 



Trypanostoma scbrobustum. — Testa laevi, pyramidata, tenebroso-cornea, 

 crassa ; spira pyramidattl, elevata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar no- 

 venis, planulatis ; apertura parva, rhomboidea ; labro acuto, valde sinuoso ; 

 columella incrassata et valde contorta. 



Operculum, ovate, dark-brown, with polar point near the base of the left side. 



JIab. — Holston River at Knoxville, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, U. S. E. 



Trypanostoma Roanense. — Testa laevi, obtuso-conicd, crassa, vittatfi vel 

 evittata ; spira obtusa ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus planulatis, subsuturis 

 tumidis ; apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella 

 albida, incrassata et valde contorta. 



JIab. — Roane County, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, U. S. E. 



Trypanostoma Lesleyi. — Testa tuberculata, pyramidata, tenebroso-cornei ; 

 spira elevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar octonis, sub- 

 irapressis; apertura parviusculd, rhomboidea, intus albidd, interdum vittat&; 

 labro acuto, valdfe sinuoso ; columella incrassata. 



Operculum ovate, dark-brown, rather thin, with the polar point near the 

 base. 



Bab. — East Tennessee, Prof. Troost. Smith's Shoals, Cumberland River, 

 E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, U. S. E. ; and Pulaski Co., Kentucky, Joseph 

 Lesley, C. E. 



Trypanostoma affinb. — Testa canaliculata, pyramidata, cornea ; spira 

 valde elevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar novenis, 

 canaliculatis, supra planulatis ; aperturfl, rhomboidea, intus .albida vel vit- 

 tata ; labro acuto, sigmoideo ; columella incrassata et valde contort^. 



JIab. — Smith's Shoals, Cumberland River, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, 

 U. S. E. 



Trypanostoma cylindrackum. — Testa l?evi, cylindracea, subcrassa, vittata 

 vel evittata ; spira subelevata ; suturis irregulariter impressis ; anfractibus 

 planulatis, leviter impressis, subsuturis tumidis ; apertura parviusculd, rhom- 

 boidea ; labro acuto, aliquanto sinuoso ; columella incrassatd, lncurvat& et 

 contort^. 



JIab. — Roane County, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, U. S. E. 



Tbvpanostoua carinatuh. — Testa carinai&, acato-conic&,rufo- corned, tenui 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



diftpbana ; spina acuto-conica, mucronata ; suturis valde impressis ; anfracti- 

 bus instar novenia, carinatis, supernfe striatis; apertura parviuscula, rhom- 

 boidea ; labro acato, sinuoso ; columella aliquanto incras3at3, et contorta. 



Hab. — Bull Kun, tributary to Ciiuch River, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, 

 U. S. E. 



Stbbphobasis Ltonii. — Testa laevi, subcylindracea, crassfi,, tenebroso-cornea 

 vel oliva, raro vittata ; spira obtuso-conica; suturis impressis; anfractibua 

 octonis, convexiusculis ; apertura subconstricta, rhomboided, intus albidfi., raro 

 vittata ; labro acuto, aliquanto sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata, ad basim 

 canaliculata et retrorsa. 



Hab. — Holston River at Knoxville, E. Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, U. S. E. 



Description of and Bemarks on FLAN0BBI3 NEWBEBBTI. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Planorbis Nbwberbyi. — Tests, pallido-cornea ; depresso-turritd, minutissimfe 

 striata, supern^ et infernfe acuto-cariaata, late et profundite umbilicata ; an- 

 fractibus quiais, supernfe planulatis ; aperturd magna, pallido-cornea, sub- 

 triangulari. 



Shell pale horn-color, slightly turrited, very finely striate, sbarply carinate 

 above and below, widely and deeply umbilicate, whorls five, flattened above ; 

 aperture large, pale horn-color and subtriaagular. 



Planorbis Newberryi, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1858, p. 41. 



Hab. — Klamath Lake and Canoe Creek, California, J. S. Newberry, M. D. 



My cabinet and cabinets of Smithsonian Institution and Dr. Newberry. 

 Biam. -55, Length -42 of an inch. 



Remarks. — This is a very remarkable shell, and I have placed it among the 

 Planorbes until the soft parts may be observed in a living state ; they may be 

 found to differ from the true Planorbes.* Some specimens preserved in alco- 

 hol have been carefully examined, but the parts are so rigid that it could not 

 be satisfactorily done. The tentacula do not, however, seem to be so long as 

 is usual in the Planorbes. The epidermis is very thin on the upper part of the 

 whorls, and the striae there are backwards in curves, and on the lower part 

 slightly forwards. The upper carina forms an acute angle, the edge being 

 cord- like ; the lower one is still more acute. In most of the specimens there 

 are two obscure carinations on the whorls between the acute ones. The um- 

 bilical region is very remarkable, the perforation extending to the apex of the 

 slightly elevated spire, the apex itself being frequently wanting, owing to 

 corrosion occasioned by the attacks of some small enemy eating into the sub- 

 stance of the hard part. The upper angle of the whorls is elevated slightly 

 above the plane of the whorls, thus forming a Babylonic appearance. This 

 gives the shell the appearance of some forms of the Trochi. 



This very curious and interesting species is among the Mollusea brought by 

 J. S. Newberry, M. D., attached to the Pacific Railroad Survey under the com- 

 mand of Lieut. R. S.Williamson, U. S. A., and I have great pleasure in dedicat- 

 ing it to Dr. Newberry, who has done so much to elucidate the Natural History 

 of California and Oregon, when on these expeditions so creditable to the 

 Government. 



* Provisionally it may be called Megasystropha, from M«3.a, magnus, and 

 ••wfgo^w, vortex, — the umbilicus being large and vortex like. 



1864.] 




6 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Descriptions of New Species of NOBTH AMEBICAN FOLTDESMID^. 



BY DR. H. C. WOOD, JR. 



Genus POLYDESMUS. 



Subgenus FONTARIA. 



P. TRIMACULATUS. 



P. saturate rubro-brunnens ; scutia posiice fulvo trimaculatig, corrugatia ; 

 antennis ultimis pilosis; pedibus dilute, fulvia ; appendicibus penitalibus mas- 

 culis maxirois, crassibus, ultimis obtuse rotundatis, spina terminali gracillima, 

 enormiter convoluta. 



The color of this species is a dark reddish brown. Each scutum has on the 

 posterior portion of its lateral lamina a bright yellow or orange spot, and a 

 blotch of the same tiat on the median portion of its posterior border. Occa- 

 sionally this is so prolonged as almost to give the idea of a continuous trans- 

 verse band. The first scutum has two central markings, situated the one on 

 its anterior, and the other on its posterior border. These are so shaped and 

 joined together as to suggest the idea of an hour-glass. The anal scutum is 

 triangular and somewhat elongate. It is yellow, but has a dark spot on each 

 side, and its truncate apex is tipped with brown. The head is chestnut brown. 

 Its vertex is deeply canaliculate, and its inferior lip distinctly emarginate, and 

 fringed with hairs. The antennae are light brown, slender, and not at all cla- 

 vate. The feet are light yellow, with their distal portion somewhat pilose and 

 occasionally tipped with brown. The male genital appendages are very large 

 and robust. Their terminal spine is simple, long, slender, and irregularly bent 

 upon itself. They are also furnished with a small nearly straight spinule, 

 placed proximally as to the terminal. The female genitals are very short, 

 thick and bulbous. On one side of each there is an opening, with two pro- 

 jecting plates separated from one another by a linear orifice. I have seen a 

 male and female, which were collected by Mr. E. D. Cope in Susquehanna Co., 

 Pennsylvania. They are about two inches long. 



P. CORROGATCa. 



P. atro-castaneus, scutis fulvo postice marginatis; laminis lateralibus fulvia, 

 latissimis, angulis anticis rotundatis, posticis modice acutis ; scuto anale tri- 

 angulare, elongato, postico fulvo, apice truncato; appendicibus genitalibus 

 masculis maximis, spinulo laterale robusto subbreve vix curvato armatis ; 

 spina terminale maxima, robusta, compressa, tortuosa, spinulo basale armata. 



The color of the perfect animal is a chestnut black, rarely reddish chestnut, 

 with a moderately broad margin of fulvous [in alcoholic specimens] on each 

 scutum. This band may be red during life. The scutaj beautifully po- 

 lished to the naked eye, the microscope shows to be obsoletely wrinkled. 

 Very many of these wrinkles are longitudinal. The head is of the same color 

 as the body; medianly it is distinctly sulcate ; inferiorly it is broadly and 

 rather deeply emarginate. The scutal side plates are fulvous above and be- 

 low. Their anterior angles are rounded, their posterior more or less acute, and 

 in the hinder ones prolonged. The under surface of the body is of a light 

 yellow. The male genital appendages are very large and robust. They have 

 a short, slightly crooked spinule attached and lying close to their side. The 

 terminal spine is irregularly spiral, and has near its base a curved spinule. At 

 the point of its origin is a tuft of bristly hairs. Each female genital appen- 

 dage is chiefly composed of a short, almost globular, process, in one side of 

 which there exists a large opening. This process is scarcely at all pilose. 

 Through the side opening projects a pair of large, thick plates, fitting together 

 somewhat in the manner of bivalve shells. These nearly equal in height 

 the main process. The spine on the second joint of the feet is robust, 

 but acute. The whole animal is about one and a half inches in length. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 7 



Hob. — Michigan; Prof. Miles. Trentoa Falls, New York; Mus. Oomp. 

 Zoology, D. Mack. 



P. BIFIDUS. 



P. rubro castaneng, aegmentis et antice et postice late falro-marglaatis, la- 

 minis lateralibua dilute fulvis ; scuto anale triangulare, apice trunuato et de- 

 curvato ; appendicibus genitalibus masculis elongatis, pilosis ; spina terminale 

 gracillima, proxima cyliodracea, ultima bifida et noanihil abrupte curvata, 

 spinulo basale gracillimo parvo arrnata. 



All of my specimens have been preserved for a length of time in alcohol, so 

 that the description of color is not as accurate as it should be. The anterior 

 aspect of the head is much lighter than the vertex, which is medianly strongly 

 canaliculate. The antennae are dilute fulvous, are rather longer than in 

 P. virffiniensis, and are distally, sparsely and shortly pilose. The spinules on 

 the distal ends of the first and second joints of the long and slender feet are 

 robust, but are often obsolete anteriorly. The terminal scutum has several 

 punctae closely resembling pores. The preanal scale is triangular ; it has 

 two little elevations surmounted by a punctum. The male genital appendages 

 are elongate. Their terminal spine is very slender and cylindrical in its prox- 

 imal portion ; distally it is bifid and strongly curved. It is ornated with 

 a very slender curved basal spinule. 



Hab. — Georgia; Museum of Comp. Zoology, Dr. LeConte. Texas; Collection 

 of Smithsonian, G. Wurdeman. 



P. CRASSICUTIS. 



P. maximus, robustus ; scutis enormiter subrude pnnctatis; appendicibus 

 genitalibus masculis, singula spinis quatuor armata ; duobus magnis, parvis 

 duobus. 



The color of all the specimens is light testaceous ; with, in many, a dark dor- 

 sal line. It is very possible that the alcohol, in which they have been long 

 preserved, may have destroyed the original color. The animal is very large 

 and robust, and has its outer armor and side plates very heavy. The head on 

 its upper surface has a distinct median furrow, and on its lower a broadly 

 lineal, oblique depression on each side. The inferior margin is rather broadly 

 and deeply emarglnate. The lateral lamina are rather short. The female 

 genital appendages are a pair of small, pyramidal, pilose bodies, whose 

 apices are split into three or four very minute mameloid processes. The 

 male organs are large, and distally very hairy. They are each armed with 

 two large and two small spines. The longer and more slender of the former 

 at its proximal portion is bent rather abruptly at right angles to itself, but is 

 nearly straight afterwards. The more robust is pretty straight, save at its dis- 

 tal extremity, where it is abruptly bent at right angles to itself. It is armed 

 with several very slender spinules, and has one edge distantly and obsoletely 

 denticulate. Of the smaller spines, one is short and blunt ; the other much 

 longer, sharp, slender and falciform. The last scutum is triangular, and has 

 its apex truncate and very slightly decurvate. The preanal scale is semi- 

 orbicular. 



Length, 2 to 3 inches. 



Hab. — Mississippi. Museum of Smithsonian. 



Subgenus POLYDESMUS. 



P. HISPIDIPES. 



P. saturate olivaceo-brunneus, immaculatus ; dorso nonnihil convexo ; scuto 

 anale triangulare longe pilose, apice truncate et decurvato; pedibus hispidis; 

 appendicibus masculis genitalibus brevibus, robustis, spina terminale modica, 

 ultima abrupte curvata, dense pilosa. 



The color is darker than in F. erythropygus. The side plates are rather 



1864..] 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



short, with their edges much thickened. The head has its vertex strongly 

 canalicuhite. Its anterior face is marked with two small punctiform impres- 

 sions. The lower border is not very strongly emarginate, and is set with a 

 fringe of short thick hairs. The antennae are mostly dark colored, scarcely at 

 all clavate and coarsely pubescent. The feet are rough, with closely set, stiff 

 hairs. The anal scutum is prolonged posteriorly, so as to come almost to a 

 blunt point. The genital appendages in the male are short and thick. Their 

 terminal spine is slightly curved at its base, thence is nearly straight, save at its 

 distal extremity, where it is abruptly curved, becoming nearly horizontal. It is 

 beset with very numerous long hairs. We have examined them in eighteen spe- 

 cimens, and found tkem to agree perfectly. The female genital appendages 

 consist of a pair of short, conoidal, very pilose processes, which have an opening 

 along their inner edge. 



Length one inch and an eighth. 



Hab. — Illinois. Smithsonian Coll. R. Eennicott. 



Var. ? P. laete castaneus, fulvo vel rubro macrlatns, linea nigra dorsali or- 

 natus ; laminis lateralibus marginibus rubris vel fulvis. 



This is possibly a distinct species, but as I have seen but a very few indivi- 

 duals, and the male genital appendages do not differ from those of P. hispidipea, 

 I prefer not risking a synonym. Whether the spots are yellowish or red in 

 the living animal, the length of time our individuals have been preserved in 

 alcohol precludes me from deciding. 



The spots are sometimes arranged regularly — two large ones on each side of 

 the mesial line, and a row of small ones on the posterior border. 



Mab. — Illinois. Smithsonian Coll. R. Kennicott. 



Subgenus STENONIA. 



P. CBRASINUS. 



P. dilute cerasinus ; dorso complanato ; antennis modicis pubescentibus, 

 nonnihil clavatis, nonnihil brevibus ; scutis squamis obsoletis ornatis, margin- 

 ibus lateralibus serratis ; appendici genitali masculse spina terminate lata, 

 oblique truncata, utrinque processu longo setaceo curvato instructa. 



The head has the median furrow on its vertex illy pronounced. The ante- 

 rior face is sparsely pilose, and has its lower margin broadly but shallowly 

 emarginate. The scuta have a double row of scales, obsolete but otherwise 

 similar to those of the following species. Sometimes these are entirely lost. 

 The lateral margins of the side plates are rounded slightly and minutely serru- 

 late. They seldom have more than three serraiures on each side. The ter- 

 minal scutum is triangular, with its obtuse apex bent downwards. It is 

 sparsely pilose. The legs are quite hairy, and light colored. Their second 

 joint is tumid. The genital appendages in the male are peculiar. The termi- 

 nal spines are broad and short, and superiorly very obliquely truncated, with 

 two small hamular processes. On each side a long, seta-like process spring* 

 from the base. The outer, much the longer of the two, throws an arch entire- 

 ly over the short spines. The inner is straighter. They both have one or two 

 thorn-like excrescences. 



Hab. — Oregon. Museum of Smithsooian Institution. 



Subgenus STRONGYLOSOMA. 



P. KRCCA. 



P. brunneus ? robustus ; antennis brevibus, pilosis, baud claratis ; scutis 

 Bubrude punctatis; pedibus parvis, gracillibus, modice hirsutis. 



Judging from our badly preserved alcoholic specimens, the color of this spe- 

 cies is reddish brown, with the side plates a lighter color. The body is very 

 robust. The head has a median furrow on its vertex, and its lower border 

 emarginate. The side plates have but the posterior angles, which are acute. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



The scota appear to have a narrow edging of black posteriorly. The terminal 

 scutum is subtriangular, very prolonged and very thick posteriorly. We have 

 never had an opportunity of examining the male genital organs. Ihose of the 

 female are very pilose, and are formed of two portions. They are contracted 

 at their bases, and expanded above, somewhat as a reversed flattened cone. 

 The basal piece is thicker, and less hairy than the other. The distal piece is 

 set into it, and has along the free extremity an opening. 

 Hab. — Oregon. Museum of the Smithsonian. 



Subgenus LEPTODESMUS. 



P. PLACIDUS. 



P. olivaceo-brunneus, scutis plerumque nigro vittatis ; laminis lateralibns 

 parvis, dilute brunneis ; pedibus saturate olivaceis ; sternis dilute brunneis ; 

 appendicibus genitalibus masculis, valde elongatis ; spina terminale magna, in 

 spiram ducta et spinulo basali longissimo falciforme et altero laterale breve 

 robusto instructa, margine partim acute serrato, partim integro. 



The head is dark colored. Besides its median furrow, it is also ornamented 

 with a pair of sometimes illy pronounced punctae on each side of the ver- 

 tex. Its inferior border is rather broadly emargiaate. The antennae are 

 elongate, dark brown, and tipped with black. The anal scutum agrees with 

 the others in color. It is triangular, with its apex truncate, obscurely emar- 

 ginate and decurvate. The male genital appendages are strikingly elongate. 

 The terminal spine is nearly black. It is bent spirally on itself, but after per- 

 forming a little more than an entire turn is nearly horizontal for some length. 

 It is flattened, with its superior surface somewhat umbonate. It ends in a 

 thick, blunt, spine-like process. The proximal portion of the anterior margin 

 is acutely serrate. From the edge projects a short thorn-like spinule, and 

 from the base a long, slender falciform spine. 



Length, one and a quarter inches. 



Hab. — Michigan. Prof. Miles. 



P. FLORiDUS, var. ? 



P. atro-castaneus ; scutis postice rubro-aurantiaco marginatis ; laminis later- 

 alibns parvis, laete rubro-aurantiacis ; appendicibus genitalibus, masculis P. 

 placidi illis similibus. 



The head is lighter colored than the body. It is medianly canaliculate, 

 with a pair of punctations on each side of its vertex. Its inferior border is 

 broadly emarginate. The antennae are rather long and slender, very slightly 

 clavate, light brown, and distally tipped with black. The scuta are smooth, 

 beautifully polished, and not corrugate. The side plates are distant, quite 

 small, and nearly horizontal. Their anterior angles are rounded. The anal 

 scutum is prolonged, and is sometimes wholly, sometimes partially orange. It 

 is triangular, with its apex truncate and slightly emarginate, and its sides 

 curved. It projects posteriorly, and is bent downwards. The feet are cylin- 

 <Jrical, yellow, and somewhat pilose. The male genital appendages resemble 

 those of i'. placidus, except in color. They are yellowish. Those of the female 

 consist of a pair of short, blunt processes. Each of these has a basal portion into 

 which is set a short somewhat flattened body, with an obscure linear opening 

 traversing its distal surface. From the junction of these two parts springs a 

 heavy fringe of long, coarse hair. P. floridus is very possibly a distinct spe- 

 cies from F. placidus. I have seen but a single individual of the latter. The 

 general appearance of the two is so dissimilar, as to incline me to the be- 

 lief of their distinctness. But they agree well as to their genitalia, and a suite 

 of specimens might show their identity. 



Length one and a qnarter inches. 



Hab. — Michigan. Prof. Miles. 



1864.] 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



P. HAYDENIANUS. 



P. olivaceo-cftstaneus ; antennis modicis, sparse pilosis, ultimis nigris ; lami- 

 nis lateralibus luteis; appendicibus genitalibus masculis birsutis et processu 

 lato breve et spinis duobus armalis ; spina terminale modice robusta, valde 

 curvata. 



Judging from an alcholic specimen, the color of this animal is an olive chest- 

 nut, with the side plates yellowish, and the posterior portions of the scuta 

 much lighter than the anterior. The head is bright chestnut, and is orna- 

 mented with a median furrow on its vertex, and a pair of impressed dots on each 

 side of its face. Its inferior border is medianly moderately emarginate. The 

 margins of the side plates are somewhat thickened. The anal scutum is yel- 

 lowish, small, subtriangular, and distinctly emarginate posteriorly. The feet 

 are very slender, and are shortly pilose. The femora of the hinder ones are 

 armed with a small spine on their distal extremity. The male genital append- 

 ages are small, and are hairy at the base. They are armed with a broad, ob- 

 tuse, spinous process, and a slender curved spine besides the terminal. The 

 latter is robust, and is bent with a double curve, that is anteriorly and lateral- 

 ly. I have dedicated this species to my friend, Dr. Hayden, whose name is 

 inseparably connected with the far West. 

 Hah. — Oregon. Museum of the Smithsonian. 



Descriptions of New Species of North American lULICS. 



BY DR. H. C. WOOD, JR. 



Genus lULUS. 



I. VENC8TUS. 



I. rubro-castaneus, linea dorsale nigra et maculae nigrse seriebus lateralibus 

 (interdum obsoletis) ornatus ; antennis longis, filiformibus, pilosis, baud cla- 

 vatis ; scutorum lateribus canalicnlatis ; segmentis 52 ; mucrone parvo. 



The general color of this species is reddish chestnut ; frequently the red 

 predominates so much that the individual is really flesh-colored, but occa- 

 sionally the chestnut overcomes the other tint. The dorsal stripe is generally 

 very distinct, especially on the posterior portion of the scuta. The eyes are 

 triangular, and are connected by a dark band, which is often rather obscure. 

 The anterior cephalic aspect is long and narrow, with its sides converging in- 

 feriorly. Its inferior border is fringed with a double row of short, distant 

 hairs, and is medianly deeply emarginate and 2 — 4 dentate. The scuta are 

 ornamented, rarely with a white blotch on each side of the mesial line, but 

 generally with two lateral blacic dots. The first scutum in the female has the 

 anterior margin oblique as to the main axis of the body, and is prolonged 

 laterally so as to form processes, mostly canaliculate, with a rounded border. 

 In the male the anterior margin is at right angles to the axis of the body, and 

 the lateral parallel to it, so that there are no processes. The male genital 

 appendages consist of two main portions on each side. The outer and more 

 conspicuous of these is formed of a thin, very irregular plate, from whose 

 base springs a short, clavate, cylindrical, distally pilose process. The inner 

 portion is composed of a long, very slender, almost setiform process, and a 

 shorter straighter one. The former at its base is bent at right angles to itself ; 

 and distally it is somewhat spirally arched over the other. 



The female genital appendages consist of two broad, robust, pilose processes, 

 with a pair of very slender, almost filiform, feet like bodies, springing from 

 their conjunction and tqualling them in length. The major portion of each 

 appendage is composed of a single plate. This is folded on itself, so as to 

 constitute an irregular, flattened cylinder, which is open at its end, and along 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



the outer edge. It presents on one aspect an nnbroken, tolerably regular 

 surface, but on the other is proximally abbreviated. Through the opening 

 thus afforded projects a pair of snbcircular, somewhat globose plates, fitting 

 together much as the shells of a bivalve- 

 Length, 2 inches. 

 Hah. — Illinois. Smithsonian Institution. R. Kennicott. 



In the same collection we have seen a male lulus very closely resembling 

 the former, but diflfering so much in its genital appendages, that it probably 

 represents a distinct species. The outer of the two parts, forming each geni- 

 tal appendages, consists of a thin, flat, crooked, very irregular process, and 

 a shorter, robust, pilose and strongly clavate one. The former, proximally, 

 is quite broad, and narrows from the base, but distally is but at a right 

 angle to itself, and is rapidly contracted, so as to terminate in a nearly cylin- 

 drical crooked point. The main process of the inner portion is somewhat 

 cylindrical proximally, but is distally expanded. At first bent at a right 

 angle to itself, it next has the swan-neck curve, and is then bent at an acute 

 angle to itself to be straiglit the remainder of its length. At this angle there 

 is a minute sharp spine. Shielded, as it were, by this process, there is 

 another, very slender and acute. 



I. KIOSISCUTA. 



I. castaneo-brunneus maculae nigrae (interdum obsoletse) seriebus laterali- 

 bus ornatus ; antennis longe pubescentibus ; capitis margine antico modice 

 emargiuato, denticulato ; segmentis 58; mucrone parvissimo ; scutis pilosis 

 singulo punctae sejunctae serie impresso. 



The color of this species is a chestnut brown, sometimes mottled with 

 light brown. The anterior aspect is beautifully but irregularly areolated 

 with the latter color. The antennae are moderately long, and have their dark 

 joints tipped with white. Their is a pair of coarse punctations on the vertex- 

 Each scutum has a series of distinct punctations extending entirely around 

 it ; from these dots proceed little channels, obsolete on the fore-part of the 

 body, but gradually becoming strongly pronounced. The anterior portion of 

 the body is sparsely, but the posterior densely, pilose. The anal scales are 

 very rough. We have never seen a male. Neither can we give a detailed 

 account of the female genital appendages, but one portion of them consists of 

 a pair of short, subcylindrical, rather robust and distally clavate processes. 



Hab. — Susquehanna Co., Pennsylvania. E. D. Cope, Esq. 



I. OEEGONENSIS. 



I. laete castaneus, albido-brunneo annulatus, et linea dorsale nigra et macnl» 

 nigrae seriebus lateralibus ornatus ; antennis filiformibus, longis, pilosis, sub- 

 clavatis ; capitis margine antico valde emargiuato, denticulato ; segmentis 

 44 — 45 ; scutorum lateribus canaliculatis ; mucrone parvo, robusto ; squama 

 preanali triangulare. 



The color of this elegant species is a bright chestnut, ornamented with 

 rings of a very light brown and a dorsal black line, as well as a black spot 

 on the side of each scutum. In some individuals there is on the anterior por- 

 tion of the first scutum, a black crescentic blotch, and on the posterior a 

 border of the same tint. The anterior aspect of the vertex is long and nar- 

 row and deeply emarginate interiorly, where it is denticulate and fringed 

 with two rows of distant hairs. The eyes are somewhat elliptical, and 

 are connected by an illy defined black band. The posterior portion of the 

 body is not pubescent. The outer piece of the male genital appendages is 

 rather long, straight and somewhat clavate, and distally pilose. The inner 

 process is large, and is formed of a plate so folded longitudinally as to form a 

 groove on the inner edge. From the base of the genital appendage springs 



[Jan. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



a slender process, which soon bifurcates ; the more slender of the division is 

 the longer. They both soon enter tlie groove, before spoken of, the shorter 

 and more robust being distal as to the other, and emerging from the groove 

 on the other side of the main process, whilst the longer comes out on the side 

 it enters. The female genital appendages are composed of a broad, thin 

 piece, from which arises a pair of filiform, feet-like processes, besides two 

 other very robust ones. These last are sparsely pilose, and about as long as 

 broad. They reach about to the base of the filiform bodies, and have a slit- 

 like orifice in their summit. 



Length of body, two and a half inches. 



Hab. — Oregon. Smithsonian Museum. 



I. IMMACULATUS. 



I. saturate rubido-brunneus, hand maculatus ; antennis modice longis, fili- 

 formibus, vix subclavtis, pilosis ; capitis margine antico modice emarginato ; 

 segmentis 48 — 51 : scutis infra canaliculatis ; mucrone modico, uncinato, ro- 

 busto, acuto. 



The color of all our specimens is a very dark reddish brown, unrelieved by 

 any other tint. On the vertex is a pair of coarse punctations, as in /. Cana- 

 densis. The lateral processes of the first scutum in the female, although 

 small, are somewhat canaliculate. The mucro is certainly smaller than that 

 of/. Canadensis, The male genital appendages are composed of two parts. 

 The outer of these consists of a somewhat clavate and pilose process, with 

 a curiously folded and contorted plate on its inner side. The other portion is 

 formed of a straight process, which has several minute, spine-like bodies on 

 its free extremity, and is proximally suddenly contracted, and then expand 

 somewhat, so as to give an appearance of emargination. From the base of 

 this springs another, almost filamentous process. 



The female genital appendages consist of two bodies conjoined at their 

 bases, and blunt at their free extremity. When viewed from one aspect, 

 they appear cylindrical, but fpom the other, flattened or even concave ; oppo- 

 site to the latter face there is a broad, irregular piece, which has its free extre- 

 mity scolloped. 



ifai.— Catskill Mountains, N. Y. Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



I. CAI^ALICULATUS. 



I. brnnneus, interdum cseruleo tinctus ; antennis filiformibus, pilosis, non- 

 nihil clavatis ; segmentis 51 ; scutis supra et infra arete canaliculatis, singulo 

 pilorum longorum distantium serie unica instruct© ; mucrone longo, recto ; 

 squamis analibus longe pilosis ; squama preanali triangula, acuminata. 



The color of this species is a dark brown, with sometimes a bluish tint, and 

 very gradually mottled with light brown. Tlie triangular eyes are connected 

 by an obscure black band. The labial margin is broadly emarginate, and is 

 furnished with two or three denticules, as well as a double row of distant 

 rigid hairs. The joints of the antennae are tipped with white. The first scu- 

 tum is, in the female, slightly prolonged laterally, where it is rounded off ; on 

 its anterior surface there is a dark somewhat crescentic blotch. The anterior 

 of the two subscuta, forming each scutum, is closely and deeply canaliculate 

 through its whole circumference ; it is broader than the posterior, and very 

 slightly elevated, so as to give the body somewhat of a moniliform appear- 

 ance. Tlie ring of hairs surrounding each scutum is frequently imperfect ; it 

 may be from the handling of the specimen. The posterior subscutum is 

 smooth above, and distantly and shallowly canaliculate below. The posteri- 

 or portion of the body is very pilose. I have never seen a male. 



Length, one and a half inches. 



Hah. — Chester Co., Pennsylvania. Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 18 



I, LAQUBATUS. 



I. brnnneus, interdum caeruleo tinctus ; antennis filiformibus, pilosis, 

 nonnihil clavatis ; segmentis 49 ; scutis et supra et infra valde arcteque cana- 

 liculatis ; mucrone longo et recto ; squama preanali triangula, vix acuminata. 



The color of this species is brown, sometimes bluish, mottled, almost areo- 

 lated, with light brown. The eyes are triangular, and are united by a dark 

 band. The head has its anterior margin broadly emarginate, denticulate and 

 furnished with two rows of distant rigid hairs. The antennae have their prox- 

 imal joints nearly cylindrical, and are light colored, with their articles indis- 

 tinctly tipped with white. The first scutum has rather small lateral processes, 

 and is ornamented on its anterior border with a dark band. The anterior 

 subscutiim is deeply and closely canaliculate over the whole of its surface. 

 The anal scales are furnished with a series of long hairs along their valvular 

 margin. The posterior portion is generally adorned with a very few scattered 

 hairs, but I have never seen it pilose. 



Length, three-quarters of an inch. 



This species differs from /. canaliculatus in its smaller size — the absence of 

 hairs on the anterior, and their paucity on the posterior portion of the body, 

 and in the mucro being larger in proportion to the rest of the animal. Yet 

 they may possibly prove to be the young of that species. 



Uah — Chester Co., Pennsylvania. Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



I. MiLESII. 



I. saturate brunneus ; antennis filiformibus, longis, pilosis, clavatis ; scutia 

 infra arete et valde, supra interdum obsolete, canaliculatis ; segmentis 33 ; 

 mucrone nullo. 



The color of this species is a very dark, almost black brown ; but the ante- 

 rior portion of the body, and especially the head, is lighter. The antennse 

 are very pilose, and quite strongly clavate. The eyes are connected together 

 by a black band. The anterior scuta have their lateral surftces closely and 

 deeply canaliculate, but are almost smooth on their upper surface. The pos- 

 terior are everywhere deeply channeled, although more so below than above. 

 There are a few hairs on the anal scales. The anal scutum is not macro- 

 nate. It affords me pleasure to dedicate this species to Prof. Miles, who la 

 laboring so assiduously and successfully to develop the zoology of Michigan. 



^a6. — Michigan. Col. State Agricultural CoUei^e. Prof. Miles. 



I. CINEKBFBONS. 



I. brunneus, cinereo annulatus ; capitis superficia antica cinerea ; mucrone 

 nullo, squama preanali triangula, baud acuminata. 



The color of this species is dark brown. The anterior surface of the head 

 is an obscure gray color, with a dark band inferiorly. There is between the 

 upper and anterior surface of the head a well marked angle, almost an ele- 

 vated ridge. The lower margin is fringed with a few hairs, and is emarginate 

 and armed with a few denticules. The triangular eyes are connected by a 

 distinct, impressed line. On the upper portion of the anterior surface of the 

 head are two round, light dots surrounded by a darker tint. The antennae 

 are wanting in the only specimen, a female, that I have seen, which is so 

 mutilated that I cannot say certainly of how many segments it was composed ; 

 the number, however, was probably either 34 or 45. The first scutum has 

 very small, lateral processes. It is light brown, bordered with a dark band, 

 edged with a grayish tint. The anterior portion of the body is of a lighter 

 shade than the posterior, and has the grayish annuli more distinctly pro- 

 nounced. The anal scutum is not mucronate. The anal scales are not pilose. 



Hah. — Oregon. Smithsonian Institution, 



1864.] 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I. CJEBDLEO-CIHCTUS. 



I. bmnneus, saturate cseruleo annulatus ; segmentis 42 ; antennis parvis ; 

 scutis infra et supra modice canaliculatis ; mucrone nuUo. 



The color of this species is brown, with a dark, sometimes obsolete ring of 

 blue to each segment, except the most anterior. The lower portion of the 

 anterior surface of the head is light brown. The labial margin is scarcely 

 emargiuate, but is rounded and fringed with rigid hairs. The eyes are ar- 

 ranged in subtriangular patches, with their transverse diameter much the 

 greater. They are connected by a black band, which is much broader in the 

 middle than at the ends. The first scutum is large, with very small lateral 

 processes even in the female. There is on its anterior edge a very obscure 

 light border, and a little posterior to this a black, more or less obsolete, band. 

 The scuta are regularly, although rather lightly and distantly canaliculate 

 over their whole surface. The last scutum is distinctly but minutely punc- 

 tate, has its edge whitish, and is not at all mucronate. The anal scales are 

 not at all pilose. The specimens from which this description are taken are in 

 80 bad a condition that I have hesitated to notice them. But probably the 

 description will be found to be sufficiently accurate for the identification of 

 the species. 



Length of body, about one and a half inches. 



I. HOBTSNSIS. 



I. bmnneus, lateribus maculis nigris ornatis ; antennis modic^ brevibus, 

 pilosis, filiformibus, clavatis ; segmentis 42 ; scutis arete canaliculatis et infra 

 et supra ; mucrone nullo ; squama preanali triangula, apice rotundato. 



The general color of this species is rather dark brown in the adult . But 

 when an individual is examined with a magnifier, it is seen to be beautifully 

 areolated with light brown. In young specimens and adults, which have re- 

 cently shed their exuviae, the color often verges on white, whilst the side 

 Bpots are black, contrasting strongly with the general tint. The head is 

 rather broad inferiorly, and has its lower margin shallowly emarginate, and 

 distinctly though minutely denticulate. The triangular eyes are connected 

 by a broad, dark band. The first scutum is ornamented on its anterior por- 

 tion by a dark, transverse band. The lateral processes are almost wanting, 

 even in the female. There is on each side a series of large, black dots, one 

 to a scutum, commencing rather abruptly at about the 5lh or 6th segment, 

 and ending in the same way at about the 39th. The subscutum on which 

 they are situated are scarcely canaliculate. The anal scutum is about equal 

 in length to the two preceding it. 



Length half to 1 inch. 



Philadelphia. Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



I. VISOATCS. 



L saturate brunneus, dorso luteolo, medio linea nigra instructo, antennis 

 modice longis, pilosis, clavatis ; segmentis 35 ; scutis copiose distincte canali- 

 culatis ; mucrone subnullo ; squamis analibus sparse pilosis ; squama prea- 

 nali lata, subtriangula, apice rotundato. 



The sides of the body are deep brown, almost black, whilst the dorsum ap- 

 proaches a yellowish fawn color, and has a strongly pronounced, black, me- 

 dian line. The lower margin of the head is broadly emarginate, denticulate, 

 and fringed with a series of hairs. The anterior surface is mottled with light 

 brown, and has a dark median band, terminating in a transverse one low 

 down. The under surface of the body is light-colored, and is often somewhat 

 areolated. There are some specimens whose pattern of coloration is light 

 brown or fawn colored, with two lateral and one median dark stripe. Are 

 these, individuals which have recently cast off their exuvite ? The eye-patches 

 are somewhat parabolic. The joints uf the antennae are obconical, dark co- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 15 



lored, and tipped with white. The lateral processes are small. The grooving 

 of the scuta is in some specimens somewhat obsolete on the dorsum. The 

 posterior scutum is light colored. I have never identified a male. 



Length, ^ to | of an inch. 



Hab. — Philadelphia. Dr. Joseph Leidy, Dr. Ij. C. Wood, Jr. Washington, 

 D. C. F. W. Putnam, Coll. Museum Comp. Zoology. 



Genua SPIROBOLUS. 



S. SPINIGERUS. 



S. fulvus, maculis saturate viridis maximis ornatus ; capite minute panc- 

 tato, infra punctorum magnorum serie instructo ; oculis suborbiculatis ; anten- 

 nis longis ; segmentis 48 ; scutis leviter sparse punctatis ; squama preanali 

 triangula. 



The color of this species is fulvous, often varying towards orange. On 

 each scutum there is a large dark-green transverse crescentic blotch. This 

 is often so wide superiorly as to involve the whole of the dorsum. In some 

 individuals there are lateral series of white blotches, and occasionally a 

 black line on each side. These are, however, not common. The head 

 has a strongly pronounced median furrow, and is greenish superiorly. The 

 eye spots are somewhat orbicular, with occasionally a tendency to become 

 tetra- or polygonal. The antennse are longer than in S. marginatus. The 

 scuta are not rough, and are very lightly or even obsoletely furrowed be- 

 neath. The spines on the inferior surface of legs are very numerous and 

 acute. The male genital appendages are formed of two main portions joined 

 together, as in S. marginatus. The large plate of the main process is broad. 

 The upper border of its face has a wavy outline. Externally it is produeed 

 into an alar portion, which ends in a blunt process at right angles to it. The 

 inner piece is composed of a basilar and superior joint. The basilar is very 

 long. The other is curved, and presents on one aspect a strongly convex, on 

 the other a strongly concave surface. It ends in a blunt point, and is armed 

 with a large blunt process and an acute spine. The female genital append- 

 ages appear to consist on each side of a process deeply placed within 

 the body — this is thin on its free margin, which is rounded, though some- 

 what acuminate — below it is contracted and thickened. The three pairs of 

 feet immediately in front of the genital aperture in the male have their 

 coxae produced into long processes. These are often of a curious form, but 

 do not seem constant in this. The fourth and even fifth coxse have small 

 processes. 



JIab. — Florida. South Carolina. Smithsonian Institution. 



S. UNOIGEKUS. 



S. Isete brunneus, saturate-rubido-brunneo annulatus ; capite sparse mi- 

 nute punctato et corrugate, antico punctorum maximorum serie instructo ; 

 segmentis 50 — 53 ; scutis supra et copiose punctatis et corrugatis ; squama 

 anale triangu a. 



The color of this species is a bright brown, with an annulus of dark red- 

 dish brown on the posterior border of each segment. The head is distinctly 

 medianly canaliculate, except in the centre, and has the row of dots on its 

 anterior face as in S. margiuutus, but is not as decidedly punctate elsewhere 

 as in that species. The eyes are triangular. The antennse closely resemble 

 those of S. marginatus, but are, perhaps, rather sliorter and more compressed. 

 The first scutum is banded, both anteriorly and posteriorly. The lateral pro- 

 cesses, even the female, are almost wanting. The second scutum is produced 

 forwards as in S. marginatus. The male genital appendages are composed of 

 a yoke-like piere and two outer parts, which it connects. The central piece 

 may be described as formed by two plates (although but really one) meeting at 

 1864.] 




16 PROOEEDINaS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



an angle in the centre and attached to the onter parts at their other extremi- 

 ties. These outer articles are formed each as follows : First, There is a 

 large plate which is bent around an inner basal piece, and is deeply notched 

 laterally, but is produced anteriorly into a broad almost rudely punctate plate, 

 and posteriorly into a short, slender process, terminating in an imperfect 

 hook. This last process is sometimes obsolete. Second, Articulating with 

 the inner basal piece, alluded to, there exists a large, strongly-curved, acute 

 hook or claw, whose distal extremity is subeylindrical. The female genital 

 appendages are small, and are composed on each side of a very thin plate and 

 a process about a line in length, irregularly prismatic in shape proximally ; 

 but distally excavated suddenly, so as to be flattened for the remainder of 

 its course. 

 Hah. — California. Smithsonian Institution. 



S. ANGUSTICEPS. 



S. niger, lateribns brunneo maculatis ; capitis superficie antica angnata, 

 longa, supra nigra, infra albido-brunnea ; antennis ? ; segmentis 75 ; 



scutis et infra et supra distincte canaliculatis ; squama anali triangula. 



The color of this species is black, with a brown band on the sides, in 

 which is a black dot marking the position of the lateral pores. The lower 

 portion of the head is very light-brown, and has its margin rather deeply 

 emarginate. Along the posterior cephalic border is a somewhat crescentic area, 

 which is nearly smooth and is medianly canaliculate, adjoining this the surface 

 suddenly is rudely punctate, but gradually becomes smoother. The eyes are 

 arranged in three transverse rows, the posterior being much the longer. The 

 first scutum is copiously coarsely punctate, and is posteriorly slightly cana- 

 liculate on the dorsum, but distinctly so on the sides. The lateral processes, 

 even in the female, are very small, the second scutum being produced for- 

 wards so as to abut on the head. The posterior subscuta are on the dorsum 

 closely, rather deeply, and more or less obliquely canaliculate, but on the sides 

 less distinctly and more distantly so. The anterior subscuta are very distantly 

 and much more lightly and obliquely canaliculate, and are also more closely 

 channeled below than above. The surface of the anal scutum is irregularly 

 and minutely corrugate. We have seen but one specimen, — a female. The 

 female genital appendages appear to consist of two conoidal bodies coalescing 

 at their bases and united together towards their apices by a broad plate, so 

 placed as to present towards them an inclined surface. Into the base of these 

 pyramidal processes fit other somewhat prismatic bodies, with their thin edge 

 formed of several pieces. 



Length A\ inches. 



Hab. — San Francisco. Smithsonian Institution. R. D. Cutts. 



Kotes of Botanical Yisits to the Lower Fart of Delaware and tho Eastern 

 Shore of Maryland. 



BY WM. M. CANBY. 



The peninsula lying between Delaware and Chesapeake Bays has been al- 

 most a terra incognita to botanists ; although, from its geographical position, 

 and from the varied character of the country, embracing great variety of soil, 

 salt and fresh water marshes and rivers , large swamps, and a considerable 

 extent of coast, it might well be supposed to be a fine botanical district. 



In this expectation, the writer, (sometimes accompanied by botanical 

 friends, ) made^short visits to a few places in the counties of Sussex, in Delaware, 

 and Worcester and Somerset, in Maryland, during the months of September and 

 October last. Taking into account the lateness of the season and the limited 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 17 



extent of country looked over, the resnlt, as shown in the list below, is en- 

 couraging, and leads to the belief that a more extensive exploration would 

 yield further additions to the Northern Flora. 



When our knowledge of the botany of this peninsula becomes more perfect, 

 an interesting comparison might be made of its Flora with that of the lower 

 part of Illinois ; the plants of the Southern Mississippi Valley would probably 

 be found creeping up into the latter, as those of the Southern coast, and Pine 

 Barren region, do into the former. 



Of a considerable number of rare and interesting plants collected, only those 

 not described in the "Manual" of Prof. Gray are given in the list below, 

 with some observations on rare allied species. One or two, detected in locali- 

 ties not in the district under consideration, are also given. 



Desmodium ochroleucum, M. A. Curtis, in Herb. Gray. (Hedysarum humi- 



fusum, Ell. in Herb. Muhl.): caule procumbente tereti hirsuto elongato ; foliolis 



ovatis aliquanto rhomboidiis reticulatis ; stipulis et bractiis ovatis acuminatis 



striatis ; floribus ochroleucis ; lomentorum articulis, (^ — ^^ pollicaribus, ) 



reticulatis saepius contortis. 



In an open woodland, one mile south of "Public Landing," (on Chingo- 

 teague Bay,) Worcester county, Maryland. Fl. Sept, 4. Fruit. Oct. 2. 



Stems many (6 to 10), 18 inches to 3 ft. long, spreading in every direction 

 from the root, and, with the petioles and pedicels, quite hirsute with spread- 

 ing hairs, as well as pubescent with shorter hooked ones. Flowers ochro- 

 leucus ! Legume (always ?) much contorted. 



There is a specimen of this plant without flowers in Muhlenberg's herba- 

 rium, sent by Elliott from South Carolina under the name of Hedysarum 

 humi/usum. The fruit on this presents the same twisted appearance as in all 

 the Maryland specimens. This specimen is not in the general collection, but 

 is contained in a special collection of the genus Hedysarum, which is accom- 

 panied by a numbered list. In this, Elliott's plant is placed in a distinct 

 paper, and far separated from Muhlenberg's humi/usum ; the former being No. 



19, the latter (in full), "No. 43 humi/usum, Aug. 25, 27, 12"— (the 



latter number probably intended for the year 1812). Thus it would appear, 

 that Muhlenberg, at the time of making up this monographic collection, con- 

 sidered them distinct, as they certainly are. But afterwards, in his descrip- 

 tion in the MSS., Plant. Amer. Sept., and in the printed work, he con- 

 founds them, and in the latter the locality of Hedysarum humi/usum is given, 

 "Mass. to Penna. and Carolina." The last is to be excluded, as the specie* 

 has been found only near* Waltham, Mass. (Bigelow) and Lancaster, Penna. 



Hydeocotyle vulgaris, L. ? — In a swamp one mile east of Snow Hill, Mary- 

 land. Umbels, or rather verticils, two to five. Sept. to Oct. 



Hydrocotyle repanda, Pers. — A glabrate form, found in meadows border- 

 ing Chingoteague Bay, Worcester county, Maryland, Oct, 



* The Maes, locality is now supposed to be destroyed. In Muhlenberg's MSS. in the library 

 of the Academy, he gives the date of collection and locality of his plant, — viz., " Aug. 28, I'J, 

 (1812), upon Montgomery Island." This may be in the Kiver Susquehanna. The attention vt 

 botanists in the neighborhood is requested to this point. The plant may yet be identified and 

 specimens furnished from the original locality. The descriptions in Torrey and Gray, Gray's 

 Manual, Ac, appear to bs sufficient, cccept that the character, — stem angled or striated, — should 

 be ivdded to distinguish it from the round stem of Z>. ochroleucum,. 



The three allied species may be thus compared: 



D. ROTUXDIFOLICM. — Stem hirsute and angled ; leaflets orbicular; bracts and stipules broadly 

 ovate; flowers purple; joints of the legume large. 



D. HUMIFUSUM. — Stem angled, nearly smooth; leaflets ovate; stipules and bracts laticeolate ; 

 flowers purple ; joints of the legume small, 



J). ocHioT.KUcnM — St.im t;rete, ftirs't'.i!; l<^\f\".ts ovate reticulated ; stipules aad brMts ovaie acu- 

 minate; flowers ochroleucui ; joints of the twisted pod large. 



1864.] 




18 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY 09 



Elephantopus TOMENTOS0S, L. — Coiumon in open woodlands from Milford, 

 Delaware, southward. Sept., Oct. 



Pluchea bifrons, D.C. — Borders of a mill-pond near Salisbury, Somerset 

 county, Md. Sept. 



Mentha aquatica, L. — Shores of Nanticoke River near Seaford, Delaware. 

 Sept. Stems 3 to 4 feet long, decumbent, sending up erect flowering branch**. 

 Probably naturalized. 



Myosotis versicolor, Pers. — Naturalized near Wilmington, Delaware. 

 June. 



Heliotropidm CuRASSAviciTir, L. — Shores of Chingoteague Bay. Doubtlefi» 

 indigenous. 



Alnds maritima, Muhl. ! in Herb, et Plant. Amer. Sept., MSS., vol. i. 

 p. 193 ; Nntt., Sylva, vol. i. p. 34. Frequent in Sussex county, Delaware, 

 and southward in Maryland. Flowering in September ! Specimens of this 

 plant, consisting of small branches with leaves only, exist in the herbarium 

 of Muhlenberg. In the Academy's herbarium there are specimens, collected 

 by Dr. Pickering, with leaves and fruit. By last season's collections, the 

 anomaly of a fall-flowering alder is brought to light. So singular a departure 

 from the habit of the genus may well excite a doubt as to whether it is not 

 A mere sport, or the precocious blooming of an ordinarily spring- flowering 

 plant. Yet the observations made seem to preclude this idea. The plant 

 was noticed at several stations over a range of fifty miles, and in the begin- 

 ning of September was every where found in blossom. In going over much 

 the same ground about the middle of the month, the sterile catkins had all 

 fallen or withered ; and when again observed in the beginning of October, no 

 ; preparation for spring flowering could be seen, although on A. serrulata the 

 young catkins were already an inch long. Next season's observations will 

 probably decide the question. This shrub, or small tree, attains the height 

 • of 16 to 18 feet, growing much like A. serrulata, but with a moie open habit, 

 and with the bark lighter colored. The leaves are smooth and glossy, on 

 longish petioles, not furrowed above, thick, and strongly veined beneath. 

 Sterile catkins resembling those of A. incana, but the scales more glutinousi 

 The glossy foliage and handsome sterile catkins (should they prove to be 

 regularly produced in the fall), would make this a desirable shrub in lawns, 

 &c. 



Cephaloxys FLABEiiLATA, Desv., (Juncus repens, Michx.) — Low grounds 

 near Salisbury and Snow Hill, Md. Sept. 



Eleociiaris simplex, Torr. — Common in low grounds in Sussex county, Dela- 

 ware and in Maryland. 



SciRPcs Canbyi, Gray, u. sp.* — In a small stream and mill-pond eastof Salis- 



* Dr. Gray lias kindly furnished the following : 



"SciRPUS Candti, sp. nov. — Culmo elato (3 — 5-pedali) folio prselongo canaliculnto-triquetro 

 stipato int'trne obtuse trisono superne trirnietro apioe iniuToluorum inonophylUim pseudo-umbel- 

 l«m plimfldram lunge superans (lesiaente ; umbella sessili dichotonio-compwiu ; uniViellulia ssepis- 

 Aime biradiatis involucellatis, radiis omnibus elungatis plcrisque monostacbyis ; epicis oblongiw ; 

 Kinamis laxcimbricatis oblongoovatis acutiusoulis Uorso Tiridulis nervosis mar^inibus late scari- 

 osis palliilis ; setis porigynii 6 patentim barbellatis acheniuin obovato-triiiuetrum subito rostel)*- 

 tuin panllo superantibus. 



"So distinct is this species that there Is no other known to roe with which it may ba 



'.particularly compared. IJy its mode of growth, triangular stem and erect one-leaved ln»o- 



I lucre, appearing like a continuation of the naked stem, it would have to bp referred to 

 the section which contains .S". piin/jens. But the radical leaf is remarkably developed; the 

 greenish spikes (half an iTi>-li 'I'lig) of a very different aspect, all on l<iiig and slender rays, 



' which come off in pairs (the tirst pair closely siwsile at th>j base of the involucre) from th» 

 nodes of a zigxag rbachia, in the a.xil of a bract or iuvolucel (the lowest of which resembles the 



I iOToIucral leaf only on a smaller scale, the others more reduced and Bcarious), aind mostly accom- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19' 



bury, Md. , growing in water from six inches to two and a half feet deep. 

 Stems throwing out scaly-jointed runners from the base, which talie root at 

 the joints, and sometimes produce a few delicate immersed leaves. Upper 

 part of stem and leaves sharply triaagular, the involucre channellel or 

 bayonet-shaped, six to nine inches long. The credit of detecting this species 

 belongs to my friend, Albert Commons, of Delaware^ who accompanied me in 

 one of my visits. 



Rhynchospora pallida, M. A. Curtis, Chapman's Flora, p. 527. — Not un- 

 common in the Pine Barrens of New Jersey, especially near Quaker Bridge 

 and Atsion. June and July. This has probably been overlooked, from its 

 close external resemblance to R. alba, Vahl., but it is very distinct. 



Aeistida lanata, Poir. — Sandy soil near Salisbury, Md. October. 



The Librarian read his annual report for 1833, as follows : — 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN FOR 1863. 



The Librarian begs leave to report that, during the year just past, the follow- 

 ing additions have been made to the Library, viz : 



Folio 15; Quarto 282; Octavo 638; Duodecimo 16; Maps, &c., 15; Total 

 966. Of which there were Volumes 101 ; Tracts 850; Maps 15; Total 966. 



These have been received from the following sources : — 



Editors 157; Authors 82 ; Societies 449; Maclure Fund 43; Library Fund 

 81 ; Dr. Wilson 124; Smithsonian Institution 4 ; J. P. Hall, 1 ; J. W. Dawson 

 1 ; A. D. Bache 1 ; Secretary of the Treasury 1 ; Asa Gray 1 ; R. L. Barnes 

 1 ; S. S. Garrigues 1 ; Dr. Hammond, U. S. A., 1 ; Geol. Survey of India 1 ; 

 J. L. Darlington 1 ; New York State Library 10 ; New York State University 

 3 ; W. I. Kintsing 1 ; Isaac Lea 1 ; P. A. Dare 1 ; Total 96e. 



These belong to the following departments, viz. : — 



Journals 694 ; Bibliography 24 ; Agriculture 1 ; Languages 2 ; Geology 56 ; 

 Ornithology 28 ; Botany 20 ; Physical Sciencel3 ; Conchology 19 ; Mammalogy 

 3 ; Biography 3 ; Gen. Nat. History 36 ; Mineralogy 2 ; Anatomy and Physi- 

 ology 19 ; Entomology 29 ; Voyages and Travels 2 ; Herpetology 2 ; Medicine 

 3 ; Religion 1 ; Antiquities 2 ; Ichthyology 1 ; Helminthology 1 ; Chemistry 

 5 ; Total 966. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



J. D. Sergeant, Librarian. 



Pursuant to the By-Laws, an election of members of the Standing 

 Committees for 1864 was held, as follows : — 



ETHNOLOGY. BOTANY. 



J. x\. Meigs, E. Durand, 



S. 8. Haldeman, Joseph Carson, 



1. 1. Hayes, Aubrey H. Smith. 



panied by an internal scarions bract; and the scales of the spike are thin-membranaceous and 

 greenish. Stamens 3. Bristles of the perigynium stout, beset with widely spreading or somewhat 

 rotrorse, weak, short hairs rather than barbs. Style 3-cleft. Achenium smooth, a lino and a half 

 l->ng, triangular, with the inner face broadest; the broad and even retuse summit tipped with a 

 ronspiououa, very abrupt and narrow beak At my especial request, I am permitted to charac- 

 terize this species and to name it in honor of .the collector, my valued correspondent, Mr. Canbv. 

 I leaTe it to him to giTe aa account of its mode of growtb aaA gflnerai charaotep." A. Ghat. 



1864.] 




20 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



COMP.ANAT.AND OEN. ZOOLOGY. 

 Joseph Leidt, 

 J. M. Corse, 

 J. H. Slack. 



MAMMALOGY. 

 J. H. Slack, 

 John Cassin, 

 J. L. LeConte. 



ORNITHOLOGY. 

 John Cassin, 

 s. w. woodhouse, 

 J. H. Slack. 



EERPETOLOOY ^ ICHTHYOLOGY. 

 E. D. Cope, 

 R. Bridges, 

 J. C. Morris. 



CONCHOLOGY. 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 W. Gr. Binney, 

 G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



ENTOMOLOGY AND CRUSTACEA. 

 R. Bridges, 

 E. T. Cresson, 

 J. F. Knight. 



GEOLOGY. 

 Isaac Lea, 

 Charles E. Smith, 

 J. P. Lesley. 



MINERALOGY. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 J. C. Trautwine, 

 T. D. Rand. 



PALEONTOLOGY. 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 T, A. Conrad, 

 J. L. Le Conte. 



PHYSICS. 

 B. Howard Rand, 

 Wm. M. Uhler, 

 R. E. Rogers. 



LIBRARY. 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 Joseph Jeanes. 



PROCEEDINGS. 

 Joseph Leidy, 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 Thomas Stewardson, 

 Robert Bridges. 



February 2d. 



Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Twenty- one members present. 

 The following were presented for publication : — 

 <• Synoptical List of the Grrouse," &c. By D. Gr. Elliott. 

 *' Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatidae, No. 2." By Geo. W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 



February 9th. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



February 16th. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



The Committee on Proceedings announced the publication of the 

 Proceedings for December, 1863, 



Dr. Wilcox presented for publication a continuation of his paper for 

 January 12th. 



February 23<?. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Tw^enty-two members present. 



The following was presented and unanimously adopted : — 



Resolved, That the specimens of antique art belonging to the Aca- 

 demy be deposited in the Museum of the American Philosophical 

 Society, provided that they shall be returned on demand, and that the 

 Curators of the Society shall give a receipt for the same to the Curators 

 of the Academy. 



On report of the respective committees, the following were ordered 

 to be published : — 



The Crania of COLTUBTTS TOBQUATTJS and C. ADAMSII compared. 

 BY ELLIOTT COUES, M. D. 



I have already, in a previous paper,* presented the external characters of 

 size, form, and color by which the C. Adamsii may be distinguished from the 

 common C. torquatus. To more completely substantiate the claims of the 

 former to specific distinction, which I understand is denied it by some orni- 

 thologists, I have taken advantage of an opportunity of comparing the crania 

 of the two species, to present the marked points of difference, as regards size 

 and shape, which an examination of the skulls shows to exist. It is per- 

 fectly easy to diagnose either species from the characters of their crania alone. 



As might be expected from the relative dimensions of the two birds, the 

 cranium of C Adamsii is considerably larger than that of C. torquatus. The 

 difference is particularly striking in the length of the skull, taken as a 

 whole, as well as in the longitudinal dimensions of its individual elements. 

 The total length exceeds that of C. torquatus by fully an inch ; and the dif- 

 ference in the length of particular bones, as the intermaxillary, palatals, malars, 

 vomer, etc., is proportionately as much. In connection with this increase in 

 the length of skull, there is to be taken into consideration another point, 

 which confers upon the cranium of C. Adamsii a marked difference in general 

 contour, — viz., its remarkable narrowness. In width at the several points, 

 the cranium by no means preponderates over that of C. torquatus in propor- 

 tion to its marked difference in length. Thus, is diameter across the fronto- 

 maxillary suture, or across the anterior or posterior orbital process, is, both 

 absolutely and relatively, but little greater than that of C. torquatus, while 

 across the mastoid processes the width is absolutely the same, and therefore 

 relatively less in C. Adamsii. 



The external character, which is perhaps the most distinctive feature of C. 

 Adamsii — viz., the size and shape of the bill, corresponds, of course, to a like 

 modification of the proportions of the intermaxillary and inferior maxillary 

 bones. In fact, the difference in the relative proportions of the crania of the 



* Vide Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philada., April, 1862, p. 227. 



1864.] 




22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



two birds is prodaced, in great measure, \>y the greater developement and 

 somewhat different shape of these two bones. The discrepancies in length 

 have already been adverted to. Those of shape consist chiefly in the greater 

 plevation of the apices of the inter- and infero-maxillary bones. The line 

 formed by the mandibular ramus of the intermaxillary and the malar bone, 

 is in torquatus a gentle curve, the concavity of whicli looks downwards ; in 

 Adamsiiii is a straight line. The commissural edge of the inferior maxillary 

 of torquatus is about straight as far as the angle of the jaw ; in Adamsii it is 

 ft gentle curve, whose concavity looks upwards. The greater production of 

 the inter- and infero-maxillary bones makes their apices much more acute in 

 Adamsii than in torquatus, while, at the same time, in consequence of the 

 comparative narrowness of the skull of the former, the angle of divergence 

 of the rami of these two bones is not greater, and the bill on this account no 

 wider. Tlie symphysis of the mandibular rami is longer in Adamsii than in 

 torquatus, and the prominence at the angle of the jaw is more marked. 



In addition to the above, it may be said, in general terms, that the various 

 ridges and depressions of .the skull of Adamsii are more strongly marked 

 than those of torquatus, corresponding to the superior size and muscularity 

 of the former. The occipital protuberance and crest, the interparietal and 

 the median frontal ridge are exceedingly prominent, while at the same time, 

 the crotaphyte depression, the temporal and digastric fossae and the supra 

 orbital fossae for the lodgement of the nasal glands are deep and well defined. 

 The frontal bone of Adamsii rises more rapidly than that of torquatus, leaving 

 a deeper fossa at the fronto-maxillary suture, and also producing chiefly the 

 difference which exists in the absolute height of the two crania. 



I append the detailed comparative measurements of the most important di- 

 mensions of the skulls of the two birds, which will show at a cotip d'ceil the 

 absolute aiid relative difference in size and shape. Notice particularly the 

 great discrepancies in the longitudinal dimensions as compared with the slight 

 difference in the several transverse measurements. 



Comparative Measurements. 



Length from apex of intermaxillary to occipital protuberance- • 



" " " fronto-maxillary suture 



" " " anterior orbital process 



'* " " posterior do. do. 



" •' " apex of OS lachrym 



" " " nasal foramen 



" '• " maxillo-malar suture 



" " " tympano-malar artic • • • ■ 



" " " apex of Tomer 



" " " posterior end of palatals ' 



" of inferior maxillary 



" of symphysis of inferior maxillary 



*' from apex of inferior maxillary to angle of jaw 



" of nasal foramen 



Width of skull across fronto maxillary suture 



" " " anterior orbital processes 



" " " posU^rior do. do. 



" " " mastoid processes 



Qreatest height of skull (without lower jaw) 



•' depth of inferior maxillary 



* EagUsh inches aud hundredths. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 2S 



B»marks upon a Proposed Arrangement of the Family of 6B0TJSE, and New 



Genera added. 



BY D. G. ELLIOT. 



It has seemed to me advisable to give in a condensed form, before treating 

 the subject in a more elaborate manner in my forthcoming Monograph, the 

 results of my investigations, and the aicangement I would propose for the 

 Grouse Family. 



Tetrao, than which no generic term has been more abused in its applica- 

 tion, for it appears to have been indiscriminately given to any gallinaceous 

 bird, strictly belongs only to Urogallus and Urogalloides. The former is the 

 typical Tetrao, diS, instituted by Linnajus, and possesses the beard-like append- 

 age observed, save in its near ally, in no other bird of this family. 



America has no representative of this genus, the nearest approach to it 

 perhaps, in the form of the tail and general appearance, being the bird com- 

 monly known as Tetrao ohscurus ; but it would seem that, excepting the 

 single species of Bonasa aylveslris, no European grouse can be considered as 

 included even in the same genus with those inhabiting the New World. 



I would state here, that I am not now speaking of the Lagopidae, for I do 

 not consider them as strictly grouse. The synoptical list that I would, there- 

 fore, propose for this portion of the Tetronidae, is as follows : — 



1st. The Genus Tetrao — confined to Europe and Asia ; comprising T. uro- 

 gallus and T urogalloides. 



2d. Centrocercus — confined to America ; comprising C. urophasianus. 

 Zd. Lyrurus — confined to Europe ; comprising L. tetrix. 



For the next group, as its members appear to possess sufficient characters 

 to distinguish the species from the comraoaly knovyn T. Canadensis, in hav- 

 ing gular sacks, the extraordinary number of twenty feathers in the tail, 

 instead of sixteen, I would propose the term — 



^th. Dendragapus — confined to America ; comprising D. obscurus and Rich- 

 ardsonii. 



5<A. Canace — confined to America; comprising C. Canadensis. and C. Frank- 

 linii. 



6th. I would propose, as a generic term, founded upon the peculiar forma- 

 tion of its primary feathers, the specific appellation Falcipennis — confined to 

 Asia, and in compliment to its discoverer llartlanbii. 



1th. .Ciipidonia — confined to America; comprising C. cupido. 



8th. Pedixcxtes — confined to America ; comprising P. columbianus and P. 

 phasianellus. 



9th. Bonasa — Europe and America ; comprising; B. umbellus, B. umbelloides, 

 B. sylveslris, and B. sabini, 



Tetrao derbianus (Gould), appears to be identical with the common tetrix. 

 This opinion is formed upon a specimen, kindly sent to me by Mr. Gould, 

 which he thinks is the same as the type. The latter is now in the Liverpool 

 Museum. 



I can discover no diflTerence between this example and the usual style of 

 T. tetrix, except that the tail is a trifle longer; but as this varies considerably 

 among the Black Grouse, I have deemed it advisable to consider the genus 

 Lyrurus as possessed of but one species. 



1864.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Synonymy of the Species of STREPOMATID^, a Family of Fluviatile KoUusoa 

 inhabiting North America. 



Part 2. 



BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 



Goniohasic Section. 



Genus GOlftOBASIS, Lea. 



Goniohasis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 262, May, 1862. Journ. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 217, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 39. 

 Ceriphasia, Swainson, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, General, p. 298, Feb. 1854. 



Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. 1. p. 290, 1859. 

 Pachycheilus, Lea, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, Genera i. p. 298, Feb. 1854. 

 Potadoma, Swainson, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, Genera i. p. 299, Feb. 1854. 



Chenu, Man. de ConchyL i. p. 290, 1859. 

 Elimia, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, Genera i. p. 300, Feb. 1854. Chenu, Man. 



de Conchyl. i. p. 290, 1859. 

 Melasma, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, Genera i. p. 300, Feb. 1854. Chenu, Man. 



de Conchyl. i. p. 292, 1859. 

 Hemisinus, Swainson, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, Genera i. p. 302, Feb. 1854. 

 Juga, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, Genera i. p. 304, Feb. 1854. Chenu, Man. de 



Conchyl. i. p. 293, 1859. 

 Megara, (sp.) H. and A. Adams, Genera i. p. 306, Feb. 1854. Chenu, Man. 



de Conchyl. i. p. 293, 1859. 

 Pleurocera, Rafinesque, Haldeman, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 274, 1863. 

 Melania, (sp.) Auct.* 



Species. 



A. Shell spirally ridged. 



1. G. procissa, Anthony. f 



Melania procissa, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y. vi. p. 109, t. 3, f. 9, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 218. Brot, List, p. 59. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 342. 



B. Shell tuberculate or nodulous. 



2. G. g r a t i s a, Lea. 



Melania gratiosa. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p, 122, May, 1861. 

 Goniohasis gratiosa, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 241, t. 35, f. 43, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 63. 



'la. G. lachryma, Anthony. J 

 Melania lachryma, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 473, May, 1861. 

 Brot, List, p. 32. 



3. G. g i b b e r o s a, Lea. 



Goniohasis gibberosa. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 266, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 312, t. 37, f. 155, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 134, 

 t. 37, f. 155. 



* Mr. Lea is the first naturalist who has properly defined this genus, and his name Goniobasis 

 must therefore stand, in preference to any of the prior names given to artificial sections by the 

 Messrs. Adams. 



Of course tlieso gentlemen are wrong in includine species of this genus in the genera Pachy- 

 clicilus, Ce.riphasia, Piitadonia and Hemisinus, which are all intended to embrace very different 

 groups of species. I'rof. Haldeman is also mistaken in placing here the Pleurocera of liafinesque, 

 a genua which undoubtedly c: Tri/piinostnma, Lea. 



I This may be only an elevated form of Anculona canalifera, Anthony. 



J Tliis sfiacies and the preceding (gratiosa) are identicaL Both descriptions bear the vame date 

 of publication, and I am therefore unable to decide which taa8 priority. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 25 



4. G. n u b i 1 a, Lea.* 



Melania nubila, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 118, 1861. 

 Goniobasis nubila, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 235, March, 1863. 

 Obs. ix. p. 57. 



5. G. V a r i a n s, Lea.f 



Melania varians, Lea, Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 120, 1861. 

 Goniobasis varians, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 219, t. 34, f. 2, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 41. 



6. G. H y d e i i, Conrad. 



Melania Etjdeii, Conrad, New Fresh- Water Shells, p. 50, t. 8, f. 1, 1834. 

 Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 248. DeKay, Moll. N. York, p. 93. Wheat- 

 ley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 25. Binney, Check List, No. 141. 



Melania Hijdei, Conrad, Jay, Cat. Shells, 4th edit. p. 273. Brot, List, p. 32. 

 Hanley, Conch. Misc. t. 1, f. 3. 



Melania Hydii, Conrad, Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 187. 



7. G. d e c o r a t a, Anthony. 



Melania decoratn, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 55, Feb. 1860. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 251. Binney, Check List, No. 86. Brot, List, p. 32. 

 Goniobasis Tryomana,t Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 272, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 342, t. 38, f. 207, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 164, 



t. 38, f. 207. 

 Goniobasis granata, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 272, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. ScL V. pt. 3, p. 343, t. 38, f. 209, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 165. 



8. G. caelatura, Conrad. 



Melania ccelatura, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. iv. p. 154, Feb. 1849. .Tourn. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. i. pt. 4, p. 278, t. 38, f. 3, Jan. 1850. Binney, Cbeck 



List, No. 58. Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 245. 

 Goniobasis Stewardsoniana,^ Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 272, 1862. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 344, t. 38, f. 210, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 



p. 166. 

 Goniobasis Tryoniana, Lea, Description in part. 



9. G. o c c a t a. Hinds. 



Melania occata, Hinds, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. xiv. p. 9. Zool. Voy. 



Sulphur. MoUusca, ii. p. 56, t. 15, f. 5. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc: p. 188. 



Brot, List, p. 34. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 81, April, 1856. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 267. 

 Juga occata. Hinds, Chenu, Man. de Cohchyl. i. f. 2016. 

 Melania Shastaensis, || Lea, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 318. 



10. G. c a t e n a r i a, Say. 



Melania catenaria, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. ii. p. 379, Dec. 1822. Binney, 

 Reprint, p. 111. Binney, Check List, No. 52. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 336. DeKay, Moll. N. York, p. 93. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. 

 p. 24, Gibbes, Rep't. S. Carolina, p. 19. Jay, Cat. 4th edit. p. 273. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 185. Brot, List, p. 34. 



• Closely allied to G. oliva, Lea, but is larger, longer and tuberculate. 



t Nearly always tuberculate, and shouldered below the sutures. 



X G. decorata is a young shell, and, as is usual in this group, is sharply angulated at the peri- 

 phery. G. granata represents a half grown shell, and here the angle is almost obsolete, while G . 

 Tryoniana is the mature form. The entire Identity of these seyeral descriptions is proved by a 

 series of over two hundred specimens before me, 



Mr. hea.'s fiijure of Trymiiana belongs here, but his description of that species is made to include 

 the next species, cxlatura, Conr. The. green variety of granata is a shell of much heavier texture, 

 and may prove distinct. 



J Half grown shell of cielatura. 



I The Shastae.mis of .Mr. Lea is a very different shell, and certainly ought never to have been 

 confounded with this species, which it does not resemble in any particular. 



1864.] 




26 PKOOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Melanin subltrata,* Conrad, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. 2d ser. i. pt. 4, p. 277, t. 38, 



f. 1, Jan. 1850. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 339. 

 Melania Floridensis,\ Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 334. Brot, List, p. 34. 



11. G. catenoides,t Lea. 



Melania catcnaria, Lea, Proc. Philos. Soc. i. p. 289. Oct. 1840, (preoc.) 

 Melania catenoides, Lea, Philos. Trans, viii. p. 228, t. 6, f. 60. Obs. iii. 



p. 66. DeKay, MolL N. Y. p. 101. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 24. 



Jay, Cat., 4th edit., p. 273. Binney, Check List, No. 53. Catlow, 



Conch. Nomenc. p. 185. Brot, List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 



sp. 298. 

 Elimia catenoides, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl, i. f. 1982. 



12. G. Etowahensis, Lea.§ 



Melania Etowahensis, Lea, Reeve, Monog. MeL sp. 426, May, 1861. Brot, 



List, p. 

 Goniobasis Canhyi, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 271, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 340, t. 38, f. 204, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 162. 



13. G. H all en beck i i, Lea.|| 



Goniobasis Hallenbeckii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 271, 1862. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 339, t. 38, f. 203, March, 1863. Obs., ix. 



p. 161. 

 Melania Hallenbeckii, Lea, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 332. 



14. G. Boykiniana, Lea. 



Melania Boykiniana, Lea, Proc. Philos. Soc. i. p. 289, Oct. 1840. Philos. 



Trans, viii. p. 228, t. 6, f. 59. Obs. iii. p. 66. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 



100. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 24. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 



77. Jay, Cat. Shells, 4th edit. p. 273. Binney, Check List, No. 37. 



Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 185. Brot, List, p. 34. 

 Elimia Boykiniana, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 1978. 



15. G. B en toniensis, Lea.^ 



Goniobasis Bentoniensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 271, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 336, t. 38, f. 198, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 

 p. 158. 



16. G. papulosa, Anthony. 



Afelania papillosa, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 467, May, 1861. 



Brot, List, p. 34. 

 Goniobasis Downieana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 272, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 341, t. 38, f. 206, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 163. 



17. G. Couperii, Lea. 



Goniobasis Couperii. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 271, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. '3, p. 341, t. 38, f. 205, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 163. 



18. G. inclinans. Lea. 



Goniobasis inclinans, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 267, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 318, t. 37, f. 166, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 140. 



* 1 1 have seen several author's examples of catenaria. and they uniformly represent sheila not 

 adult. As I have not s«en specimens of sublirala an I Fhride-nsiSy I rely on the figures and des- 

 criptions only, in considering them to be the adults of the same species. 



X G. catenoides may prove to be a variety only of catenaria and 1 at first un'ted them,but I haTV 

 recently come to the conclusion that they are distinct species, though nearly allied. 



g I presume it was Mr. Lea's first intention to describe this species under the name of Etmoah- 

 ensix, as a specimen is before me which that gentlemen sent to Mr. Anthony under that name. 

 This vcrj specimen was seut to Mr. Keeve and published by hira, prior to the publication of Can- 

 byi by Mr. Lea. 



It is extremely difBcnlt to distinguish this species from varieties of papulosa, Anth. 



It Dr. Brot considers this a synonym of Boykiniana, but it in Very ditfereut. 



^ Doubtfully distinct fvoia papiUum, Anth. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OJ PHILADELPHIA. 27 



19. G, Postellii, Lea. 



Melania Postellii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 166, Jaly, 1858. Binney, 



Check List, No. 214. Brot, List, p. 34, 

 Melania Portellii, Lea, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 427. 

 Goniobasis Postellii, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 343, t. 38, f. 208, 



March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 165. 



20. G. arachnoidea, Anthony. 



Melania arachnoidea, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 95, t. 2, 



f. 14, March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 19. Brot, List, p. 34. 



Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 83. 

 Melania intertexta, Anthony,* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 62, February, 1860. 



Binney, Check List, No. 151. Brot, List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog, M«- 



lani, sp. 296. 



21. G. Conradi, Brot.f 

 Melania Conradi, Brot, List, p. 36. 



Melania symmetrica, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., iv. p. 155, Feb., 1849, 

 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., i. pt. 4, p. 278, t. 38, f. 5, Jan., 1850. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 260. 



22. G. carini f era, Lam. 



Melania carinifera, Lamarck, Anim, sans Vert. Deshayes, Anim. sana 

 Vert,, 2d edit., viii. p. 433. Wheatley, Cat, Shells U. S., p. 24. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 48. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 185. Brot, List, 

 p. 36. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 273. 



Melania bella,X Conrad, New Fresh-Water Shells, Appendix, p. 6, t. 9, f, 4, 

 1834. Binney, Check List, No. 29. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, Monog. 

 Melania, sp. 269. 



Melania perangulata, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., iv p. 154, Feb., 1849. 

 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., i. pt. 4, p. 278, t. 38, f. 6. Binney, Check List, 

 No. 199. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 285. 



Melania percarinata, Conrad. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., iv. p. 155, Feb., 1849. 

 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 2d ser., i. pt. 4, p. 278, t. 38, f. 10. Binney, 

 Check List, No, 200. Brot, List, p. 36, 



Melania nebulosa, Conrad, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., iv. p. 155, Feb., 1849. 

 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., i. pt. 4, p, 278, t. 38, f. 9. Binney, Check List, 

 No. 172. Brot, List, p, 36. 



Melania bella-crenata, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, No. 4, p. 3 of cover, 

 Oct. 5, 1841. Jay, Cat., 4th ed., p. 273. Binney, Check List, No. 30. 

 Brot, List, p. 36. 



Melania monilifera, Anthony, Jay, Cat., 4th ed., p. 474. 



C. Shell plicate, 



23. G. b e s a, Anthony. 



Melania obesa, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 469, May, 1861. Brot, 

 List, p. 33. 



24. G. blanda, Lea.§ « 

 Melania blanda, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 122, 1861. 



Goniobasis blanda. Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 242, t. 35, f. 44, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 64, t, 35, f. 44. 



* Half-grown shell. 



t Dr. Brot proposed the name Conradi for this species, as symmetrica is preoccupied by Prot 

 HakJeman. 1 doubt whether it i» distinct from G. carinifera, Lam. 



X That all the species here quoted are synonyms of carinifera does not admit of doabt. The 

 species is rather a variable one in resptct of proportions and ornamentation. 



§ The name of this species must be changed because preoccupied by Mr. hea. himself. 



1864.] 




is PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



26. Gr. flubstricta, Haldeman.* 



Melania substricta, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, vii. p. 4 of cover, Jany., 

 1844. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Binney, Check List, No. 

 256. Bret, List, p. 36. 



26. G. aequalis, Haldeman. f 



Melania iequalis, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, No. 4, p. 3 of cover, Oct. 5, 

 1841. Jay, Cat , 4th ed., p. 272. Binney, Check List, No. 7. 



27. G. semigradata, Reeve. 



Malania semigradata, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 472, May, 1861. Brot, 

 List, p. 33. 



28. G. carinocost ata,| Lea. 



Melania carinocostafa, Lea, Philos. Proc, iv. p. 16^, 1845. Philos. Trans., 



X. p. 62, t. 9, f. 40. Obs. iv. p. 62. Binney, Check List, No. 49. Brot, 



List, p. 35, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 333. 

 Goniobasis sirenua, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 267, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 316, t. 37, f. 161, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 138. 

 Goniobasis Leidyana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 322, t. 38, f. 173, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 



p. 144 

 Melania scabrella, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 388. 

 Melania scabriuscula, Brot, List, p. 36. 



29. G. Lecontlana,§ Lea. 



Melania Lecontiana, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 13, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 177, t. 5, f. 29. Dekay, Moll. N. York, p. 96. Wheatley, Cat. 

 Shells IT. S., p. 26. Brot, List, p. 35. Jay, Cat., 4th edit., p. 274. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 160. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 187. 



Melasma Lecontiana, Lea, Chenu, Man. Conchyl., i. f. 2002. 



30. G. c a d u s. Lea. || 



Goniobasis cadus, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 272, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 345, t. 38, f. 211, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 167. 



31. G. o b t u s a, Lea.^ 



Melania obtusa, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 13, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 176, t. 5, f. 28. Obs. iii. p. 14. Dekay, Moll. New York, p. 

 96. Binney, Check List, No. 183. Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 188. 

 Brot, List, p. 59. 



32. G. a m e n a, Lea. 



Goniobasis amoena, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 323, t. 38, f. 175, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 145, 

 t. 38, f. 175. 



33. G. Tuomeyi, Lea. 



Goniobasis Tuomeyi, Lea, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 266, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 I*at. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 311, t. 37, f. 153, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 133. 



* Somewhat like gracilis, Lea, but is a stouter, more ponderous species. 



t Allied to carinocoslala, Lea, but in that spfcies the plicaa are terminated by an acute angle 

 or rib on the body whorl and the spire is angled or carinate. 



X A very variable species. Thts M. scahrelUi of Anthony is a half-grown shell; in which state 

 the plitiE and carinse are more distinct than in the adult frrm. Scabrella being preoccupied by 

 an European author, M. Brot changed the name to scabriuncula. 



g Mr. Reeve's fleure 404 does not represent this species ; it is nearer to decorata, Anthony. Tlis 

 Bhell is closely allied to carxnocostata and pcqualis. 



1 Allied to G. obtusa, but appears to differ in not being so closely plicate as that species. It 

 may possibly = Lecontiana. 



% Is this the young shell of cadus or carinocostata f 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



34. G. C h r i s t y i, Lea. 



Goniobasis Christ i/i, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 328, t. 38, f. 185, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 150. 

 Goniobasis instabilis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 329, t. 38, f. 186, March, 1863. Obs. ix, p. 151. 



35. G. int erven iens, Lea.* 



Goniobasis interveniens, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862. Journ, 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 320, t- 38, f. 169, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 

 p. 142. 



36. G. olive 11a; Lea. 



Goniobasis olivella, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Journ. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 327, t. 38, f. 182, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 

 p. 149. 



37. G. interrupt a, Haldeman. 



Melania interrupta, Haldeman, Supplement to No. 1, Monog. Limniades, 



Oct. 1840. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Jay, Cat., 4t edit., p. 



274. Brot, List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 398. 

 Goniobasis ornatella, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Journ. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 326, t. 38, f. 181, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 



p. 148. 



38. G. oris pa, Lea.f 



Goniobasis crispa, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 326, t. 38, f. 180, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 148. 



39. G. form OS a, Conrad.f 



Melania formosa, Conrad, New Fresh-Water Shells, Appendix, p. 5, t. 9, f. 



3, 1834. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Binney, Check List, 



No. 112. 

 Melania formosa, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 387. Brot, List, 



p. 35. 



40. G. m e d i o r i 8, Lea. 



Goniobasis mediocris, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Journ. 

 Acad, Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 326, t. 38, f. 179, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 

 p. 148. 



41. G V e s i c u 1 a. Lea. 



Melania vesicula, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 118, 1861. 

 Goniobasis vesicula, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 242, t. 35, f. 45, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 64. 



42. G. Duttonii, Lea.§ 



Goniobasis Duttonii, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 266, 1862. Journ. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 314, t. 37, f. 158, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 

 p. 136. 



43. G. 1 a q u e a t a. Say. 



Melania laqueata, Say, New Harmony Disseminator, p. 275, September, 

 1829. Say's Reprint, p. 17. American Conchology, No. 5, t. 47, f. 1. 

 Binney's edition, pp. 143 and 200. Binney, Check List, No. 158. De- 

 Kay, Moll. New York, p. 97. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Jay, 

 Cat., 4th ed., p. 274. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 281, 288? Brat, 

 List, p. 35. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 187. 



* Very like Curreyana, Lea, in the plicae, but differs in form, 

 t More convex and with more regular stries than G. naxxnhi, Oonrad. 

 t Close to G. nassula, Conrad, but is striate, and the aperture is more rounded. 

 I Differs frum G. Tuomeyi, Lea. in the form of the aperture. The specimens before me are not 

 all two-band»J, some of theia being without bands, and of a light yellowish color. 



1864.] 




3^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Melania monozonalis, * Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 13, February, 1841. Philos. 

 Trans., viii. p. 178, t. 6, f. 31. Obs. iii. p. 16. DeKay, Moll. New 

 York, p. 96. Binney, Check List, No. 168. Troost, Cat. Shells Ten- 

 nessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Catlow, Conch. Nomene., 

 p. 187. Brot, List, p. 40. 



44. G. Pybasii, Lea. 



Goniobasis Pi/basit, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 266, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. ,■ V. pt. 3, p. 313, t. 37, f. 157, March, 1863. Oba., ix. p. 135, 

 t. 37, f. 157. 



45. G. i n d u t a. Lea. 



Goniobasis induta, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 267, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 319, t. 37, f. 166, March, 1863. Obs., ix. p. 141. 



46. G. vers i pell i s,t Anthony. 



Melania versipellis, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 60, February, 1860. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 286. Brot, List, p. 59. Reeve, Mouog. Me- 

 lania, sp. 436. 



47. G. g r a c i 1 i s, t Lea. 



Melania gracilis, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 168, t. 5. f. 11. Obs. iii. p. 6. DeKay, Moll. N. York, p. 94. 

 Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 128. Catlow, Conch. Nomene, p. 187. Brot, 

 List, p. 38. 



Potadoma gracilis, Lea, Chenu, Manuel de Conchyl., i. f. 1968. 



48. G. p a u c i c o s t a, Anthony. 



Melania paucicosta, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 57, February, 1860. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 198. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, Monog. Me- 

 lania, sp. 255. 



49. G. tenebrosa. Lea. 



Melania tenebrosa, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 13, February, 1841. Philos. 

 Trans., viii. p. 176, t. 5, f. 26. Obs. iii. p. 14. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., 

 p. 95. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 267. Catlow, Conch. Nomene, p. 189. 

 Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 443. Brot, List, p. 39. 



60. G. c o r a c i n a, Anthony. 

 Melania coracina, Anthony, Bost. Proc, iii. p. 361, Dec, 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 67. Brot, List, p. 58. 

 Melania Sellersiana, Lea, Philos. Trans., x. p. 299, t. 30, f. 8. Obs., ▼. p. 55. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 239. 



fil. G. intersita, Haldeman. 

 Melania intersita, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, No. 4, p. 4 of cover, Dec 

 28, 1841. Binney, Check List, No. 150. Brot, List, p. 35. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 376. 



52. G. columella, Lea. 

 Melania cnlurndla, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 13, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 179, t. 6,f. 33. Obs. iii. p. 17. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 96. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 60. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, 

 Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Catlow, Conch. Nomene, p. 186. Brot, List, 

 p. 35. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 441. 



•This Is only a rather wide, young specimen of laqutala, as I have ascertained by the inspection 

 of some hniidreds of spccimenR of that species. 



t VarsipeUiH resouibles a young laqiwuUi, but its texture is quite heavy although !!tuall. 



X DewTibeii by Mr. l*a as a saiooth species, but among a hundred poifojt spoeiuiens before me, 

 over eighty are more or less plicate uu the epirv. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



53. G. bland a, Lea. 



Melania blanda, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 13, Feb, 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 79, t. 6, f. 34. Obs. iii. p. 17. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 97, 

 Binney, Check List, No. 36. Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. Wheat- 

 ley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 185. Brot, 

 List, p. 35. 



54. G. n i t e n s, Lea. 



Melania nitida,* Lea,, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 14, February, 1841. 



Melania nitens, Lea, Philos. Trans., viii. p. 182, t. 6, f. 40. Obs. iii. p. 20. 

 DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 98. Binney, Check List, No. 178. Troost, 

 Cat. Shells Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Catlow, 

 Conch. Nomenc, p. 187. Brot, List, p. 36. 



55. G. m u t a t a, Brot. 



Melania Deshaijesiana,\ Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 27^, September, 1860. 

 Melania mutata, Brot, List, p. 37. 



56. G. sutu rails, Haldeman. 



Melania suturaHs, Haldeman, Suplement to Monog. Limniades, No. 1, Oct., 



1840. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p, 27. Jay, Cat., 4th ed., p. 275. 



57. G. m a t a b i 1 i s, t Lea. 



Goniobasis mutabilis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 331, t. 38, f. 189, March, 1863. Obs., ix. p. 153. 



58. G. V i e n n a e n s i s, Lea. 



Goniobasis Viennaensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci., p. 267, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 315, t. 37, f, 160, March, 1863. Obs., ix. 

 p. 137. 



59. G. Curreyana, Lea. 



Goniobasis Curreyana, Lea, Philoa. Proc, ii. p. 13, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 180, t. 6, f. 36. Obs., iii. p 18. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., 

 p. 25. Binney, Check List, No. 79. DeKay, Moll. N. Y,, p. 97. 

 Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 286. Troost, Cat. Shells, Tennessee. Cat- 

 low, Conch. Nomenc, p. 186. Brot. List, p. 35. 



Melasma Curreyana, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 2003. 



60. G. cost if era, § Haldeman. 



Melania coitifera, Haldeman, Monog. Melania., No. 2, p. 3 of Cover, Jan. 



1841, Binney, Check List, No. 72. Brot, List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog. 

 Melania, sp. 440. 



61. G, Deshayesiana, Lea, 



Melania plicitula,\\ Lea, Proc, Philos, Soc, ii. p. 14, Feb. 1841. Philos. 

 Trans., viii. p, 182, t. 6, f. 41. Obs., iii. p. 20. Troost, Cat. Sheila 

 Tenn, Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 274. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 188. 

 Brot, List, p. 34. 



Melasma plicatula, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 1998. 



Melania Dechayesiana, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 242, Dec 1842. Philos. 

 Trans., ix. p. 24. Obs., ix. p. 24. DeKay, Moll. N. Y. p. 98. Wheat- 

 ley, Cat. Shells TJ. S., p. 25. Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. Jay, 

 Cat. Shells, 4th Edit., p. 273. Binney, Clieck List, No. 88. Brot, List, 

 p. 34. 



* Prfoecupied. 



t Preoccui)i<'d by Mr. Lea, and the name rhanged to miitata by M. Brot 

 X Very closely allipd to suturnlis, but diflfera in the form of the aperture. 



^DifTers from Curreyana hy its more aumerous plica, irioreacumiuated gpire, and by the mouth 

 being more rounded at base. 

 i Preoccupied, and changed to Deshayetiana. 



1864.] 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Melania Deshaysii, Lea, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 330. 



62. G. Abbevillensis, Lea. 



Goniobasis Abbevillensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862. Joum. 

 Acad, Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 323, t. 38, f. 174, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 146. 



63. G. Doolyensis, Lea. 



Goniobasis Doolyensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 266, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 315 t. 37, f. 159., Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 

 137. 



64. G. i n c o n s t a n s , t Lea. 



Goniobasis inconstans, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 325, t. 38, f. 178, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 

 147. 



65. G. c o n t i n e n 3 , Lea. 



Goniobasis continens, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862, Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., pt. 3, p. 324, t. 38, f. 176. Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 146. 

 Goniobasis proletaria, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Sci., v.pt. 3, p. 325, t. 38, f, 177, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix, p. 147. 



66. G. viridicata, Lea. 



Goniobasis viridicata. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci., p. 268, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 322, t. 38, f. 172, Mar, 1803. Obs., ix. p. 144. 



67. G. purpurella, Lea. 



Giniobasis purpurella, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 327, t. 38, f, 183, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 

 149. 



68. semicostata, Conrad. 



Melania semicostata, Conrad, New Fresh-Water Shells, App p. 7, t. 9, f. 6, 

 1834, Binney, Check List, No. 241. Brot, List, p. 59. 



69. G. d i s 1 o c a t a , Ravenel. 



Melania dislocata, Ravenel, Cat. Shells, p. 11, 1834. Binney, Check List, 

 No. 90. Brot, List, p. 35. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 380. 



Goniobasis Lindsleyi, Lea, Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 267, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 319, t. 37, f. 167, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 141. 



70. G. paupercula,§ Lea. 



Goniobasis paupercula, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat Sci,, p, 268, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 324, t. 38, f. 176, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix., p. 

 146. 



71. G. corneola, Anthony. 



Melania corneola, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 61, Feb. 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No, 68, Brot, List, p. 35. Reeve, Monog, Melania, 

 sp, 456, 



72. G. n a s s n 1 a , Conrad. 



Mflania nassula, Conrad, New Fresh- Water Shells, p. 55, t. 8, f, 9, 1834. 

 Biuney, Check List, No. 171. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 97. Jay, 

 Cat. 4th Edit., p. 274. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Brot, List, 

 p. 34. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 4 12. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 

 187. 



73. G. p e r s t r i a t a , Lea. 



Melania perstriata, Lea, Philos. Trans., x. p. 296, t. 30, f. 2. Obs., v. p. 

 52. Binney. Check List, No. 203. Brot, List, p. 36. 



1 1 doubt whether this ii more than the young of DcolyeTuit. 

 I = liUUmUa, young 7 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENOES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



74. G. r u g s a , Lea. 



Melania corrugata, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 13, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans. 



viil. p. 177, t. 5, f. 30. Obs., iii. p. 15. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. 



Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. 

 Melania rugosa* Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 237, Dec. 1842. Philos. Trans. 



viii. p. 248. Obs., iii. p. 86. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 96. Bin- 



ney. Check List, No. 235. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 188. Brot, 



List, p. 34. 



75. G. costulata. Lea. 



Melania costulata, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 14, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans, 

 viii. p. 181, t. 6, f. 39. Obs., iii. p. 19. Binney, Check List, Nb. 73. 

 DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 98. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 273. Troost, Cat. 

 Shells Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Reeve, Mo- 

 nog. Melania, sp. 272, 360. Brot, List, p. 35. 



76. G. cinerella. Lea. 



Goniobasis cinerella, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 269, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 328, t. 38, f. 184, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 150. 



77. G. Edgariana, Lea. 



Melania Edgariana, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 14, Feb. 1841. Philos. 

 Trans., viii. p. 180, t. 6, f. 37. Obs., iii. p. 18. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., 

 p. 97. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 273. Binney, Check List, No. 94. 

 Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 430. "Wheat- 

 ley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 186. 



Melasma Edgariana, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl, 1. f. 1997. 



78. G. c a 1 i g i n s a , Lea. 



Melania caliginom, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 15, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 189, t, 6, f. 56. Obs., iii. p. 27. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 

 24. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 293. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 100. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 44. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Jay, Cat. 4th 

 Edit., p. 273. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 185. Brot, List, p. 34. 



79. G. n o d u 1 s a , Lea. 



Melania nodulosa, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 15, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans.,. 

 viii. p. 190, t. 6, f. 57. Obs., iii. p. 28. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 10(». 

 Binney, Check List, No. 180. Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. Wheat- 

 ley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 188. Brot^ 

 List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 276. 



80. G. g 1 a u c a , Anthony. 



Melania glauca, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 57, Feb. 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 125. Brot, List, p. 35. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 

 389. 



Goniobasis Lyonii, Lea. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 266. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 V. pt. 3, p. 313, t. 37, f. 156, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 135. 



81. G. difficilis,! Lea. 



Goniobasis dijicilis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 267, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 317, t. 37. f, 163, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 139. 



82. G. s p ar u 8, Lea. 



Goniobasis sparus, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 267, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 316, t. 37, f. 162, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix, p. 138. 

 Goniobasis cerea, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862. Jour. Acad. Nat. 



Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 321, t. 38, f. 171, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 143. 



* Preoccupied. 



t Resemblea G. glauca, but the whorls are more convex. G. baculum la more cylindrical tban 

 this species. 



1864.] 8 




34 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



83. G. Th o rn tonii, Lea. 



• Goniobasis Thorntonii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 268, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 320, t. 38, f. 168, Mar. 1863. Obs., ix. p. 142. 



84. G. c a n c e 11 a t a ,* Say.. 



Melania cancellata, Say, New Harmony Disseminator, p. 260, Aug. 1829. 

 Say's Reprint, p. 16. Binney's Edit., p. 141. Binney, Check List, No. 

 46. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 93. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24, 

 Brot, List, p. 34. 



85. G. c i r c i n c t a , Lea. 



Melania circincta, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 15, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 



'viii. p.. 187, t. 6, f. 51. Obs., iii. p. 25. DeKay, Moll., N. Y., p. 99. 



Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Catlow, 



Conch. Nomenc, p. 186. Brot, List, p. 31. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 



sp. 289. 



Melania circinnata, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 54. 



Juffa circinnata, Lea, Checu, Man. de Conchyl., 1. f. 2015. 



86. G. a t h 1 e t a , Anthony. 



Melania athleta, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 83, t. 2, f. 1, 

 Mar. 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 23. Brot, List, p. 34. Reeve, 

 Monog. Mel., sp. 258. 



87. G. curvicostata, Anthony. 



Melania curvicostata, Anthony, MSS. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 462. Brot, 



List, p. 35. 

 Melania densecostaia, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 465. Brot, List, p. 35. 



88. G. striatula. Lea. 



'Melania striata,f Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 15, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 186, t. 6. f. 49. Obs., iii. p. 24. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheat- 

 • ley. Cat. Shells U. S., p. 



Juga striata, Lea, Chenu. Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 2018. 



Melania striatula, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 23Y, Dec. 1842. Philos. Trans, 

 viii. p. 248. Obs. iii. p. 86. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 99. Jay. Cat. 4th 

 Edit., p. 275. Binney, Check List, No. 249. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc- 

 p. 188. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 466. Brot, List, p. 35. 



89. G. tripartita, Reeve. 



Melania triparlita, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 364, Dec. 1860. Brot, List, p. 

 37. 



90. G. d e c o r a. Lea. 



Melania decora. Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 14, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 181, t. 6, f. 38. Obs., iii. p. 19. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 98. Bin- 

 uey, Check List, No. 85. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. 

 Shells U. S., p. 25. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 292. Catlow, Conch. 

 Nomenc. p. 186. Brot, List, p. 35. 



91. G. c r e b r i c o s tat a. Lea. 



Melania crebricostaia, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 13, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii; p. 179, t. 6, f. 35. Obs., iii. p. 17. DeKay, .Moll. New York, p. 

 97. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 273. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheat- 

 ley Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 374. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 74. Brot, List, p. 35. 



Melasma crebricostaia, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 1999. 



* I am unable to find Bpecimcns of thfa shell in any of our cabinets, and as it haa never be*n 



[Feb. 



figured, I assign it ihe position it occupies in this catalogue from the description only 

 ■''t' iName preoccupied. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



92. G. comma, Conrad. 



Melania comma, Conrad, New Fresh Water Shells, p. 53, t. 8, f. 7, 1834. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 107. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 61. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 95. Jay, Cat. 

 4th Edit., p. 273. Brot, List, p. 35. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 186. 



93. G. a c u t a. Lea. 



Melania acuta, Lea. Philos. Trans., iv. p. 101, t. 15, f. 32. Obs. i. p. iii. 

 Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 4. Brot, List, p. 3. Reeve, Monog, Melania, 

 sp. 274. 



94. G. subcylindracea, Lea. 



Melania subcylindracea, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. 

 Trans., Viii. p. 169, t. 5, f. 14. Obs., iii. p. 7. DeKay, Moll. New 

 York, p. 94. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Binney, Check List, No. 253. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 188. 

 Brot, List, p. 39. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 399. 



95. G. b a c u 1 u m , Anthony. 



Melania baculum, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 98, t. 2. f. 

 16, Mar. 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 27. Brot, List, p. 34. 

 Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 431. 



96. G. concinna,* Lea. 



Melania concinna, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 14, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 183, t. 6, f. 42. Obs. iii., p. 21. DeKay, MolL New York, p. 98. 

 Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 186. Binney, Check List, No. 63. Brot, 

 List, p. 34. 



97. G. eliminata, Anthony, 



Melania eliminata, Anthony, Ann. New York Lye. Nat. Hist., vi., p. 97, t. 

 2, f. 15, Mar. 1854. Binney, Cheek List, No. 98. Brot, List, p. 34. 



98. G. t e r e s , Lea. 



Melania teres, Lea, Philos. Proc.. ii. p. 13, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 



p. 176, t. 5, f. 27. Obs., iii. p. 14. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 96. 



Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Binney, 



Check List, No. 269. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 275. Catlow, Conch. 



Nomenc. p. 189. Brot, List, p. 35. 

 Melania terehralis,\ Lea, Philos. Proe., ii, p. 13, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 



viii. p, 178, t. 6, f. 32. Obs., iii. p. 16. DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 



96. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U.S.; p. 27. 



Binney, Check List, No. 268. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 189'. Brot, 



List, p. 36. 



,99. G. gracillima, Anthony. 



Melania gracillima, Anthony, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 62, Feb. 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 129. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 437. 



100. G. C 1 a r k i i , Lea. 



Melania Clarkii, Lea, Philos. Trans., x. p. 297, t. 30, f. 4. Obs., v. p. 53. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 56. Brot, List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog. Me- 

 lania, sp. 356. 



101. G. De C a m p i i. Lea. 



Oonioboiis DeCampii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 154, May, 1863. 



186i.] 



♦ Extensively distributed by Mr. Anthony as M, comma, Conrad, variety, 

 t Half grown shell of G. teret. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



102. G. abb re V iata, Anthony. 



Melania abbreviata, Anthony, Bost. Proc, iii. p. 360, Dec, 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 4, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 424. 

 Melania elegantula, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 103, t. 3, f. 2, 



March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 96. Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 346. 

 Melania coronilla, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 126, t. 3, f. 27, 



March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 69. Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 418. 

 Melania chalybsea, Anthony, Brot, List, p. 37. 



103. G. p li c if er a. Lea. 



Melania plicifera. Lea, Philos. Trans, vi. p. 93, t. 23, f. 90. Obs. ii. p. 93. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Jay, Cat., 4th ed., p. 274. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 211. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 284. Cooper, 

 Report, p. 374. Brot, List, p. 36. Gould, Moll. Expl. Exped., p. 143, 

 f. 165. 



Melasma plicifera, Lea, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2001. 



104. G. s i 1 i c u 1 a, Gould. 



Melania silicula, Gould, Bost. Proc, ii. p. 224, June, 1847. Otia Concho- 

 logica, p. 46. Moll. Expl. Exped., p. 141, f. 164, 164a. Cooper, Re- 

 port, p. 374. Binney, Check List, No. 243. Brot, List, p. 52. 



Melania Shastaensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., viii. p. 80, April, 1856. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 242. Cooper, Report, p. 374. 



Goniobasis Shastaensis, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 337, t. 38, f. 

 199, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 159. 



Melania rudens, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 224, May, 1860. Brot, List, p. 



105. G. nigr i na,* Lea. 



Melania nigrina, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 80, April, 1856. 

 Ooniobasis nigrina, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 302, t. 37, f. 137, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 124. Binney, Check List, No. 177. 



106. G. r u b igi nosa. Lea. 



Ooniobasis rubiginosa, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Journ. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 333, t. 38, f. 193, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 

 155. 



107. G. B a i r d i a n a. Lea. 



Goniobasis Bairdiana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 267, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 317, t. 37, f. 164, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 139, t. 

 37, f. 164. 



D. Shell angulate. 



108. G. troc h i f r m is,f Conrad. 



Melania trochiformis, Conrad, New Fresh-Water Shells, p. 56, t. 8, f. 11, 1834. 

 DeKay, Moll. New York, p. 100. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 275. Brot, List, p. 31. 



109. G. cr is tat a, J Anthony. 



Melania cristata, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 108, t. 3, f. 8, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 77. Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melnnia, sp. 413. 



110. G. cr u da, Lea. 



Goniobasis cruda, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 332, t. 38, f. 190, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 154. 



• Differs from tilicula in being more cylindrical, with the apical whorls carinate. 

 f Tho figure of this species iu Mr. Conrad's work is not r«cogaizablei, but it will probably be found 

 to = criftaia, Anth., youDg. 

 t =pro<«MS, Lea? 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



111. G. Whitei, Lea, 



Ooniobasis Whitei, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 266, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V, pt. 3, p, 310, t. 37, f. 151, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 132. 



112. G. c a St a, Anthony. 



Melania casta, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 100, t. 2, fw 19, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 50, Bret, List, p. 32. Reeve, 

 Monog, Melania, sp. 381. 



113. G. r h mbi c a, Anthony. 



Melania rhombica, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 116, t. 3, f. 16, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 228. Brot, List, p. 38. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp, 347. 



114. G. an gul at a, Anthony. 



Melania angulata,* Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 117, t. 3, f. 17, 



March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 14. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 386. 

 Melania cimiamomea, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 379. Brot, List, 



p. 35. 

 Goniobasis intercedens, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Joara. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 305, t. 37, f. 143. Obs. ix, p. 127. 



115. G. Bridge si an a, Lea. 



Goniobasis Bridgesiana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour, Acad. 

 Nat, Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 305, t. 37, f. 142, March, 1863. Obs. ix, p. 173, t. 

 37, f. 142. 



116. G. cu bic oi d es, Anthony. 



^ Melania cubicoides,f Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 60, Feb., 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 78. Brot, List, p. 39. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 445. 



117. G. S p i II m a n ii. Lea. 



Goniobasis Spillmanii, Lea, Proceed. Acad, Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. JouroL 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p, 302, t, 37, f. 138, March, 1863. Obs. ix. 

 p. 124. 



118. G. p 1 e b e i u s, Anthony. 



Melania plebejus, Anthony, Bost. Proc, iii. p. 362, Dec, 1850. Reeve, Monog. 



Melania, sp. 414. 

 Melania plebeitis, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 209. 

 Melania plebeia, Anthony, Brot, List, p. 38. 



119. G. o p a c a, J Anthony. 



Melania opaca, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 58, Feb., 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 189. Brot, List, p. 38. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 

 384. 



Melania iostoma, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 62, February, 1860. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 152. Brot, List, p. 31. Reeve, Monog. Me- 

 lania, sp. 351. 



Melania nigrostoma,^ Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 463, 367. Brot, 

 List, p. 38. 



120. G. p a II i d u 1 a, Anthony. 



Melania pallidula, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye Nat. Hist., vi. p. 115, t. 3, f. 15, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 197. Brot, List, p. 38. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 417. 



* Juvenile shell. The adult is described under the names of cinnamomea and intercedens. 



t The longitudinal ribs attributed to this species by Mr. Anthony are very faint on the type 

 shell, and do nut exist at all on other specimens. 



J =: ovoidea, Lea. / G. ebenum of Lea appears to be more rounded in the base of the aperture, 

 »nd the periphery not angulated ; still it may be the same. 



2 Young specimens. 



1864.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



121. G. vi c ina,* Anthony. 



Melania vicina, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 114, t. 3, f. 14, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 288. Bret, List, p. 39. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 291. 



122. G. Sparten bu r ge n s i s,f Lea. 



Goniobasis Spartenburgensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., 2d ser., v. pt. 3, p. 307, t. 37, f. 147, March, 1863. Obs. 

 ix. p. 129. 



123. G. modes ta. Lea. 



Melania modetta, Lea, Philos. Proc, iv. p. 166, Aug., 1845. Philos. Trans., 

 X. p. 60, t. 9, f. 34. Obs. iv. p. 60. Binney, Check List, p. 36. 



E. Whorls very strongly carinated. 



124. G. p ag di for mis, Anthony. 



Melania pagodiformis, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 106, t. 3, f. 



6, March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 195. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 260. 

 Melania torulosa, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 110, t. 3, f. 10. 



March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 273. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 370. 



125. G. Gerhar dtii, Lea. 



.Goniobasis Gerhardtii, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Journ. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 330, t. 38, f. 187, March, 1863. Obs., ix. 

 p. 152. 

 Goniobasis infuscata, Lea, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Journ. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 330, t. 38, f. 188, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 

 152. 



126. G. oblita, Lea.J 



Melania oblita, Lea, Philos. Trans., x. p. 298, t. 30, f. 6. Obs. v. p. 54. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 182. Brot, List, p. 36. 



127. G. a c u t ocar i n ata,§ Lea. 



Melania acutocarinata, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 14, Feb., 1841. Philos. 

 Trans., viii. p. 184, t. 6, f. 46. Obs. iii. p. 22. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 

 99. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 5. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 185. Brot, List, 

 p. 36. 



Elimia acutocarinata, Lea, Chenu, Manuel de Conchyl., i. f. 1979. 



F. Body whorl bi-multiangulated. 



128. G. tabu lata, Anthony. 



Melania tabulata, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 118, t. 3, f. 18, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 262. Brot, List, p. 39. 



129. G. C a t a w b a e a,|| Haldeman. (MSS.) 



130. G. V i tt at a, Anthony. 



Melania vittata, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 89, t. 2, f, 7, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 294. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 262. 



* Described as from Alabama, but all the Bpecimens before me are labelled "Kentucky" by Mr. 

 Anthony, and I think the latter habitat is correct. 



+ I fear the Northern specimons of this species are not distinct flrom depygis. Say. 



t Differs from symmetrica in being striate. 



i This shell is believed by Prof. Ilaldeman to — siviphx, Say, but I doubt it. ActHocarinata, 

 it IS true, is not always cariuate, but, it appears to mo, is always n.arrowly lengthened. 



II A wider species than others of the group ; none of the specimens are banded. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Melania pulcherrima* Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 58, Feb., 1860. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 222. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, Monog. Me- 

 lania, sp. 336. 



131. G. subangulata,f Anthony. 



Melania subangulata, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 91, t. 2, f. 9, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 252. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 242. 



Melania paula, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 122, 1861. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 244, t. 35, f. 48, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 66. 



132. G. symmetrica,! Haldeman. 



Melania symmetrica, Haldeman, Monog. Lim., No. 4, p. 3 of Cover, October 5, 



1841. Binney, Check List, No. 261. Jay, Cat., 4th ed., p. 275. Brot, 



List, p. 35. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 328. 

 Melania imbricata, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., vi. p. 105, t. 3, f. 5, 



March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 142. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, 



Monog. Melania, sp. 259. 

 Melania bicineta, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 56, Feb., 1860. Binney, 



Check List, No. 31. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 327. 

 Melania assimilis, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 60, Feb. 1860. Brot, 



List, p. 36. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 464. 

 Melania assimilis, Lea, (mistake,) Binney, Check List, No. 22. 

 Goniobasis Uch^ensis, Lea, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 334, t. 38, f. 194, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 156. 

 Goniobasis Barrattii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 271, 1862. Journ. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 335, t. 38, f. 196, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 157. 



133. G. iota, Anthony. 



Melania iota, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 86, t. 2, f. 4, March, 

 1854. Brot, List, p. 36. Binney, Check List, No. 153. 



134. G. n igro cine t a, Anthony. 



Melania nigrocincta, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 90, t. 2, f. 8, 

 March, 1854. Brot, List, p. 36. Binney, Check List. 



135. G. te ct a, Anthony. 



Melania tecla, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 105, t. 3, f. 4, Mar. 



1854. Binney, Check List, No. 265. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, Monog. 



Melania, sp. 253. 

 Goniobasis macella, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Jour. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 333, t. 38, f. 192, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 155. 



136. G. h y b r i d a,§ Anthony. 



Melania fiybrida, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 60, Feb. 1860. Binney, 



Check List, No. 140. Brot, List, p. 36. 

 Melania subcarinata, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 282. 



137. G. fusco cine t a, Anthony. 



Melania fuscocincta, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 120, t. 3, f. 20, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 118. Brot, List, p. 40. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 415. 



138. G. CO ng e s ta,|| Conrad. 



* G. pulcherrima is the juvenile form. 



{Differs from vittuta, Anth., ia having a mor« rounded aperture. 

 The various synonyms of this species, inhahiting North and South Carolina, Alabama and 

 Tennessee, are all characterized by an identical form, although varying somewhat in color. Hav- 

 ing examined several hundred specimens, I find them to vary so much in that respect that I 

 cannot unite any oi the so called species, 

 g Differs from symmetrica in being more cylindrical, with the whorls more flattened. 

 II I can obtain no information regarding this species except the meagre description. It has 

 never been figured, and I cannot find specimens in our cabinets. 



1864.] 




40 PBOCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Melania congesta, Conrad, Amer. Jour. Sci., 1st ser. xxv. p. 343, Jan. 1834. 

 DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 96. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 64. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 2Y3. Brot, List, p. 36. 



G. Short clavate, smooth species. 



139. G. auri culaeformis. Lea.* 



Melania auriculieformis, Lea, Philos. Proc, iv. p. 166. Philos. Trans., x. p. 

 62, t. 9, f. 39. Obs. iv. p. 62, t. 9, f. 39. Binney, Check List, No. 24. 

 Brot, List, p. 32. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 409. 



140. G. Nickliniana, Lea. 



Melania Nickliniana, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 12, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 171, t. 5, f. 18. Obs. iii. p. 9. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 95. 

 Reeve, Monog. Melania., sp. 375. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. 

 Catlow, Corch. Nomenc, p. 187. 



Leptoxis Nickliniana, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 371. 



141. G. aterina, Lea.f 



Goniobasis aterina, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 155, May, 1863. 



142. G. B in n ey ana, Lea. 



Goniobasis Binneyana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 266, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 310, t. 37, f. 152, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 132. 



143. G. e b e n u m, Lea.;^ 



Melania ebenum. Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 166, t 5, f. 7. Obs. iii. p. 4. DeKay, Moll. New York, p 93. Jay, 

 Oat., 4th Edit., p. 273. Binney, Check List, No. 93. Troost, Cat. Shells 

 Tenn. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 350. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 186. Brot, List, p. 31. 



Anculotus ebenum. Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus t. 4, f. 31. 



Melaiiia brunnea, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye Nat. Hist. vi. p. 92, t. 2, f. 10, 

 March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 41. Brot, List, p. 39. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 319. 



Melania Paula, Anthony, Brot, List, p. 40. 



144. G. V auxi a n a. Lea. 



Goniobasis Vauxiana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 309, t. 37, f. 150, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 131. 



145. G. larvsef r m is, Lea. 



Melania larvse/ormis, Lea, MSS., Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 357, Dec, 1860. 

 Brot, List, p. 38. 



146. G. au r i c oma. Lea. 



Goniobasis auricoma. Lea, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 308, t. 37, f. 148, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 130. 



147. G. glabra, Lea.g 



Melania glabra, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii. p. 82, Oct., 1841. Philos. 

 Trans., ix. p. 18. Obs. iv. p. 18. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 123. Brot, List, p. 38. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 439. 



148. G. gram i nea, Haldeman, MSS. 



149. G. gibbosa. Lea. 



Melania gibbosa. Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 34, April, 1841. Philos. Trans, x. 



•This shell reminds us of ayoung olivula, Con., but differs from that species in texture, 

 t Differs from ebenum. Lea, in being smaller, narrower, and more angulate at the periphery. 

 X bii^hier c )lored and more rounded than iostoma, Anthony. Mr. Leu considers that species to 

 be iilentieal with ebenum, 

 J = HimpUx, Say f 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 41 



p. 301, t. 30, f. 12. Obs. V. p. 57,t. 30. f. 12. Binney, Check List, No. 

 121. Brot, List, p. 40. 



150. G. Vanuxem ii. Lea. 



Ooniobasis Vanuxemii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. p. 307, t. 37, f. 146. Obs. ix. p. 129. 



151. G. cognata, Anthony. 



Melania cognata, Anthony, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci., p. 60, Feb., 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 59. Brot, List, p. 39. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 458, 



152. G. Georgian a, Lea. 



Goniohasis Georgiana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 308, t. 37, f. 149. Obs. ix. p. 130. 



153. G. abrupta, Lea. 



Melania abrupta, Lea, Philos. Proc, iv. p. 165. Philos. Trans., x. p. 59, t. 9, 

 f. 32. Obs. iv. p. 59, t. 9, f. 32. Binney, Check List, No. 2. Brot, 

 List, p. 37. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 397. 



154. G. depygis. Say. 



Melania depygis, Say, New Harmony Disseminator, p. 291. Say's Reprint, 

 p. 19. Am. Concholog}^, Part 1, t. 8, f. 4, 5. Binney's Reprint, p. 145 

 and 157, t. 8. Binney, Check List, No. 87. Lapham, Cat. Moll. Wis- 

 consin. Kirtland, Am. Jour. Sci. Kirtland, Rep. Zool. Ohio, p. 174. 

 Shaffer, Catalogue. Higgins, Catalogue. Anthony, List, 1st and 2d 

 Edit. Sager, Rept. Michigan Moll., p. 15. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., 

 p. 25. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 89, t. 7, f. 135. Stimpson, Shells of New 

 England, p. 32. Jay, Cat. Shells, 4th Edit , p. 273. Adams, Am. Jour. 

 Sci., xl. p. 366. Adams, Thompson's Hist. Vermont, p. 152. Catlow, 

 Conch. Nomenc, p. 186. Brot, List, p. 37. Deshayes, Lamark, Anim. 

 sans. Vert., viii. p. 441. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 373. 



Melania occulta, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 5, Feb., 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 185. Brot, List, p. 38. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 254. 



155. G. li V es c en s, Menke. 



Melania livescens, Menke, Syn. Meth., p. 135, 1830, Binney, Check List, No, 



163. Gould, Lake Superior, p. 245. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 274. 



Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 229. Brot, List, p. 38, Currier, Shells of 



Grand River Valley, Mich., 1859. 

 Melania Niagarensis* Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 12, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., 



viii. p. 173, t. 5, f. 21. Obs. iii. p. 11. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 90. 



Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Binney, Check List, No, 175. 



Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 187. Brot, List, p. 38. Currier, Shells of 



Grand River Valley, Mich. Bell, Canad, Naturalist, iv. pt. 3, p. 213, 



June, 1859. 

 Melania napella, Anthony, Bost. Proc, iii, p. 362, Dec, 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 170. Brot, List, p. 59. 

 Melania cuspidata, Anthony, Bost. Proc, iii. p, 362, Dec, 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 83. Reeve, Monog, Melania, sp. 283. 

 Melania correcta, Brot, List, p. 39. 



156. G. Milesii, Leaf 



Goniobasis Milesii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 154, May, 1863. 



157. G. simplex, Say. 



Melania simplex, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. p. 126, Sept., 1825. Binney's 

 Edition, p, 115, Binney, Check List, No. 244. Dekay, Moll. N. Y., p. 



*In considering this species to be the same as livescens, I am sustained by the opinion of almost 

 every American Conchologist. 

 t Larger, more convex, and of thinne r texture than livescens. 



1864.] 




42 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



100. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 



148. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 275. Brot, List, p. 38. 

 Melania Warderiana, Lea,* Philos. Proc, ii. p. 14, Feb., 1841. Philos. 



Trans., viii. p. 185, t. 6, f. 47. Obs. iii. p. 23. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., 



p. 99. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc., p. 189. Binney, Check List, No. 297. 



Brot, List, p. 39. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 353. 

 Melania Wardiana, Lea, "Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S , p. 27. 

 Potadoma Warderiana, Lea, Chenu, Manual de Conchyl., i. f. 1972. 

 Melania densa, Anthony, Bost. Proc, iii. p. 360. Dec, 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 89. Brot, List, p. 31. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 250. 



158. G. Po t osiens is, Lea.f 



Melania Fotosiensis, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 14, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 184, t. 6, f. 45. Obs. iii. p. 22. DeKay, Moll. N, Y., p. 99. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Binney, Check List, No. 215. 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 188. Brot, List, p. 36. Reeve, Monog. 

 Melania, sp. 295. 



159. G. t or t a. Lea. 



Melania torla, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 165, Aug. 1845. Philos. Trans., x. p. 

 58, t. 9, f. 30. Obs. iv. p. 58. Binney, Check List, No. 272. Brot, List, 

 p. 39. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 377. 



160. G. Saffordi, Lea. 



Melania Saffordi, Lea, Philos., Trans, x. p. 300, t. 30, f. 10. Obs. v. p. 56. 



Binney, Check List, No. 236. Brot, List, p. 38. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 



sp. 365. 

 Melania virens, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 93, t. 2,'-f. 11, Mar, 



1854. Binney, Check List, No. 289. Brot, List, p. 40. 



161. G. Newberryi, Lea. 



Ooniobasis Newberryi, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. March 20, 18G0. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 300, t. 37, f. 135, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 122. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 174. Brot, List, p. 38. 



162. G. bul bosa,+ Gould. 



Melania bulhosa, Gould, Bost. Proc. ii. p. 225, July, 1847. Oiia Concholo- 

 gica, p. 46. Moll. Expl. Exped. p. 142, f. 163, 163a. 1852. Binney, 

 Check List, No, 43. Brot, List, p. 58. 



163. G. Lithasioides, Lea. 



Goniobasis Lithasioides, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., May, 1863. 



164. G.infantula, Lea. 



Goniobasis infanlula, Lea, Proc..\cad. Nat. Sci., May, 1863. 



165. G. Louisvillensis, Lea. 



Goniobasis Louisvillensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., May, 1863. 



H. Smooth, elevated species. 



166. G. p u 1 c h e 1 1 a ,^ Anthony. 



Melania pulchella, Anthony, Bost. Proc. iii. p. 361, Dec. 1850. Higgins, Cata- 

 logue, p. 7. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 257. Binney, Check List, 

 No. 221. Brot, List, p. 38. Currier, Shells of Grand River Valley, 

 Mich. 



* I am much indebted to Prof. Ilaldeman for the opportunity of studying the excellent Huite of 

 specimens collected by himself in Holston River, which conclusively proves the identity of theiio 

 species. 



fWere It not for the wide difference of habitat, I should suspect this to be the same as simplex 

 of Say. 



J This species is exactly similar in outline to Mr. Lea's JVewl>err!/i, but none of the specimens 

 of bulboiia that I have 8e«n, (iinluding Dr. Gould's types), exhibit tlie slightest indication of bauds, 

 while Mr. Lea deolares his species to be always banded, 



§ Shell mure elevated than depygii, which it resembles in color and ornamentation. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 43 



167. G. c i n e r e a , Lea. 



Goniobasis cinerea, Lea, Proc. Aad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 306, t. 37, f. 145. Obs. ix. p. 128. 



168. G. gracilior, Anthony. 



Melania gracilis, * Anthony, Cover of No. 4. Haldeman's Monog. Limniades, 

 Dec. 28, 1841. Shells of Cincinnati, 1st Edit. Newberry, Proc. Amer- 

 ican Association for Adv. of Science, v. p. 105. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., 

 p. 273. 



Melania gracilior, Anthony, Ann. N. Y, Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 129, t. 1, f. 5, 

 1854. Higgins, Cat. p. 7. Binney, Check List, No, 127. Reeve, Mo- 

 nog. Melania, sp. 244. 



Melania gracilis, Lea, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 369. 



169. G. Etowahensis,! Lea. 



Goniobasis Etowahmsis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 299, t. 37, f. 133, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 



170. G. translucens, Anthony, (MSS.) 



171. G. ovoidea,J Lea. 



Melania ovoidea, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 167, Aug. 1845. Philos. Trans., x. 

 p. 61, t. 9, f, 38. Obs. iv. p. 61. Binney, Check List, No. 193. Brot, 

 List, p. 38. 



172. G. grata, Anthony. 



Melania grata, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 61, Feb. 1860. Binney, 



Check List, No. 131. Brot, List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp, 



433. 

 Goniobasis Prairiensis,^ Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sc, v. pt. 3, p, 299, t. 37, f. 132., Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 



121. 



173. G. q u a d r i c i n c t a , Lea, (MSS). 



174. G. flava. Lea. 



Goniobasis flava, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 303, t. 37, f. 139, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 125. 



175. G. tenebrovittata. Lea. 



Goniobasis tenebrovittata, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 301, t. 37, f. 136, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 

 123. 



176. G. t e n e r a , Anthony. 



Melania tenera,\\ Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 407, Apr. 1861. Brot, 



List, p. 39. 

 Goniobasis Brumbyi, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 263, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 296, t. 37, f. 127, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 118. 



G. s p u r c a ,^ Lea. 



Melania spurca, Lea, Philos, Proc. iv. p. 166, Aug. 1845. Philos. Trans., x. 

 p. 59, t. 9, f. 31. Obs. iv. p. 59. Binney, Check List, No. 248. Brot, 

 List, p. 31. 

 178. G. Elliottii, Lea. 



Goniobasis Elliottii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 271, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 338, t. 38, f. 201, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 160. 



* Preoccupied by Mr. Lea. 



t Preoccupied for a nodose species, also from Georgia. 



JMr. Reeve's figure 405, intended for this specie)*, represents a species of Lithasta. 



gMr. Lea dt scribed tliis species under the misapprehension that the wider shell, which he now 

 proposes to call quadricincta, was the species described as grata by Mr. Anthony, whereas, Mr. 

 Anthony's types are of the narrow form. 



II G. tenera is the young shell. 



^ Mr. Keeve's figure 340 does not represent this species. 



1864.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



119. G. pallescens, Lea. 

 Melania pallescens, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 166, Aug. 1845. Philos. Trans., 

 X. p. 63, t. 9, f. 43. Obs. iv. p. 63. Binney, Check List, No. 196. Brot, 

 List, p. 31. 

 Goniobasis mosculata* Lea, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 334, t. 38, f. 195, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix.p, 156. 



180. G. par V a, Lea. 



Goniobasis parva, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 297, t. 37, f. 129, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 119. 



181. G. OcoeensiSjf Lea. 



Melania Ocoeensis, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii., p. 169, t. 5, f. 13. Obs. iii. p. 7. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 94. Troost, 

 Cat. Shells Tennessee. Brot, List, p. 38. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., 

 p. 26. Catlow, Conch. Noinenc. p. 188. 



Melania Ocoensis, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 186. 



Potadoma Ocoensis, Lea, Chenu. Man. de Conch, i. f. 1969. 



182. G. Anthonyi, Lea. 



Goniobasis Anthonyi, Lea, Froc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p 264, 1862. Jonr. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci , V. pt. 3, p. 303, t. 37, f. 140, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 125, 



183. G. Cahawbensis, Lea. 



Melania Cahawbensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 121, 1861. 

 Goniobasis Cahawbensis, Lea, Jour. Acad. Nat, S«i., v, pt. 3, p. 223, Mar. 

 1863. Obs. ix. p. 45. 



184. G. E sta broo ki i , Lea. 



Goniobasis Estabrookii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 298, t. 37, f. 131, Mar. 1863. Obs, ix. p. 120. 



185. G. Gabbiana, Lea. 



Goniobasis Gabbiana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1862. Jour. Acad, 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 304, t. 37, f. 141, Mar. 1863. Obs, ix. p. 126. 



186. G. sub 8 olid a, J Lea. 



Melania subsolida, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. p. 

 168, t. 5, f. 12. Obs. iii. p. 6. Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 255. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. DeKay, Moll, 

 N, y., p. 94. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 188. Brot, List, p. 39. 



Melania sordida. Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 170 t. 5. f. 15. Obs., iii. p. 8. DeKay, M jll. N. Y., p. 94. Reeve, Mo- 

 nogr. Melania, sp. 449. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 275. Troost, Cat. Shells 

 Tennessee. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 188. Wheatley, Cat. Shells 

 U. S., p. 27. Binney, Check List, No. 246. Brot, List, p. 33. 



Potadoma sordida, Lea, Chenu, Manuel de Conchyl. i. f. 1971. 



Melania perfusca, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 82, Oct. 1841. Philos. Trans., ix. 

 p.. 18. Obs. iv. p. 18. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U.S., p. 26. Jay, Cat. 

 4th Edit., p. 274. Binney, Check List, No. 201, Brot, List, p, 31, 

 Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 354. 



Melania incurta, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 300. Brot, List, p. 38. 



187. G, cl av ae f o r m is, Lea. 



Melania clavse/ormis, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb, 1841. Philos. Trans, 

 viii. p. 168, t. 5, f. 10. Obs., iii. p. 6. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 93. Jay, 

 Cat. 4th Edit., p. 273. Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. 

 Shells U. S., p. 25. Reeve, Monog. Melaina, sp. 396. Binney, Check 

 List, No. 57. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 186. Brot, List, p. 37. 



♦I regard this as the half fcrown shell of pallescens, 



fMr. Reeve'M figure 335 does not represent this species. 

 An extensive suite of specimens before me, furnished through the kindness of Messrs. Gould 

 snd Haldeman, convmces me that the above descriptioiu all apply to one variable species. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 46 



188. G. castanea, Lea. 



Melania castanea, Lea, Philos. Proc ii. p. 11. Philoa. Trans., viii., p. 164, t. 

 5, f. 2. Obs, iii. p. 2. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 92. Troost, Cat. 

 Shells Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. Reeve, Monog. 

 Melania, sp. 337. 



189. 6. Cumberlandiensis, Lea. 



Ooniobasis Cumberlandiensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 155, May, 1863. 



190. G. funebralis,* Anthony. 



Melania funebralis, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 56, Feb. 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 114. Brot, List, p. 38, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 

 372. 



191. G. adust a, Anthony. 



Melania admta, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 55, Feb. 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 2. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 338. 



192. G. furva, Lea. 



Melania furva, Lea, Philos. Trans., x. p. 299, t. 30, f. 7. Obs., v. p. 55. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 115. Brot, List, p. 38. 



193. G. d u b i 8 a , Lea. 



Melania dubia,-\ Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 11, Feb. 1841. 



Melania dubiosa, Lea., Philos. Trans., viii. p. 166, t. 5, f. 6. Obs. iii. p. 4. 

 DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 93. Binney, Check List, No. 91. Troost Cat. 

 Shells Tennessee. "Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. Jay, Cat. 4th 

 Edit., p. 273. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 186. Brot, List, p. 37. 



194. G. laevigata, J Lea. 



Melania loevis, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 237, Dec. 1842. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 248. Obs. ii. p. 86. 



Melania laevigata, Lea, Proc. Philos. Soc. ii. p. 237. Philos. Trans., vii. 

 p. 165, t. 5, f. 3. Obs. iii. p. 3. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26, 

 Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 187. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 459. 



Melania Leaii,^ Brot, List, p. 34. 



195. G. interline at a, Anthony, (MSS.) 



196. G. Ohioensis, Lea. 



Ooniobasis Ohioensis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 265, 1852. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 306, t. 37, f. 144. Obs. ix. p. 128. 



107. G. brevispira, Anthony. 



Melania brevispira, Anthony, Bost. Proc. iii. p. 361, Dec. 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 39. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 474. Brot, List, p. 37. 



Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 263. 

 198. S. semicarinata,!! Say. 

 Melania semicarinata, Say, New Harmony Disseminator, p. 261. Reprint, p. 



16. American Conchology, Part 5, t. 47, f. 4. Binney's Reprint, p. 



142, 200. Binney, Check List, No. 240. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 100. 



Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 368. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 27. 



Jay, Cat. Shells 4th Edit., p. 275. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 188. 



Biot, List, p. 38. Kennicott, Trans. Ills. State Agricul. Soc. p. 595. 



* Narrower and more lengthened than the nearly allied G. admta. It has not the pale yellow- 

 ish sutural band of that species. 



t Preoccupied. 



1 1 doubt whether this is more than an immature stage of dubinsa. 



3 Proposed by Mr. Brot, because hevir/ata is preoccupie.l ic Melania ; but that same must 

 stand, as it is ntit preoccupied in Gon Musis. 



II The shells included in the above extensive synonymy present some variation in form and co- 

 loration, but in an examinatinn of several thousand Bpecimens I wa« unable to separate the so- 

 called species satisfactorily. G. iemicarinata, Say, is the young shell, which, when old, varies ia 

 form, being narrow in angustispira and exilis, and broader in the other syuonyms. The species 

 Inhabits an extensiTe range of country. 



1864.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Melania angustispira, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 55, Feb. I860. Bin- 



ney, Check List, No. 16. Brot, List, p. 37. 

 Melania angusta, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 359. 

 Melania exilis, Haldeman, suppl. to No. 1 Monog, Limniades, Oct. 1840. 

 Melania rufula, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, No. 2, p. 3 of Cover, January, 



1841. Binney, Check List, No. 234. Brot, List, p. 39. 

 Melania Kirtlandiana, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 11, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 



viii., p. 165, t. 5, f. 4. Obs. iii. p. 3. Anthony, Cat. IstEdit. Higgins, 



Cat. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 92. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p.' 25. 



Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 361. Binney, Check List, No. 155. Brot, 



List, p. 36. Catlovr, Conch. Nomenc, p. 18T. 

 Melania Kirilandia, Lea, Philippi, Beschreib, Neuer Conchyl. Melania, t. 3. 



f. 8. 

 Melania elata, Anthony, Bost. Proc. iii. p. 362, Dec. 1850. Binney, Check 



List, No. 95. Brot, List, p. 37. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 331. 

 Melania bicolorata, Anthony, Boat. Proc. iii. p. 361, Dec. 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 32. Brot, List, p. 58. 

 Melania bicolor, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 265 

 Melania inornata, Anthony, Bost. Proc. iii. p. 360. Dec. 1850. 

 Melania succinulafa, Anthony, Bost. Proc. iii. p. 363, Dec. 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 258. Brot, List, p. 59. 

 Melania varicosa, Ward, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, Part iii. p. 3 of Cover, 



Mar. 13, 1854. Anthony, List, 1st and 2d Editions. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., 



p. 275. Binney, Check List, No. 284. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 189. 

 Melania livida, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 434. Brot, List, p, 30. 

 Goniohasis Grosvenorii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 263, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 297, t. 37, f. 128, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 119. 

 Melania babylonica,* Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 14, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., 



viii. p. 183, t. 6, f. 43. Obs. iii. p. 21. DeKay, Moll, N. Y., p. 98. 



Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 24. Binney, Check List, No. 26. Cat- 

 low, Conch. Nomenc p. 185. Brot, List, p. 36. 



199. G. Haldemani, Tryon, (MSS.) 



Melania acuta, Lea, Bell, Canadian Nat. iv. pt. 3, p. 213. Lewis, Bost. 



Proc. vi. p 2. 

 Melania exilis, Haldeman, Adams, Moll. Vermont. 



200. G. curvilabris, Anthony. 



Melania curvilabris, Anthony, Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 102, t. 3, f. 1, 

 Mar. 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 82. Brot, List, p. 31. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melania, sp. 378. 



201. G. inform is. Lea. 



Goniobasis informis, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 154, May, 1863, 



202. G. v it t atella. Lea. 



Goniobasis viKatella, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 155, May, 1863. 



203. G. Alexandrensis, Lea. 



Melania Alexandrensis, Lea, PhiloB. Proc. iv. p. 167. Philos. Trans., x. p. 

 61, t. 9, f. 37. Obs. iv. p. 61. Binney. Check List, No. 8. Brot, List, 

 p. 37. 



204. G. Hal ei an a, Lea. 



Melania Halciana, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 167, Aug. 1845. Philos. Trans., 

 X. p. 60. t. 9, f. 35. Obs. iv. p. 60. Binney, Check List, No. 134. 

 Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 406. 



205. G. rubella. Lea. 



Goniobasis rubella, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 270, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 332, t. 38, f. 191, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 154. 



* A goalariform monetroBity. 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHTA. 4t 



206. G. spin el la, Lea. 



Goniobasis spinella, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sc, V. pt. 3, p. 298, t. 3Y, f. 130, Mar. 1863. Obs. is., p. 120. 



207. G. Draytonii, Lea. 



Goniobans Draytonii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 264, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, p. 300, t. 37, f. 134, March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. 122. 

 Goniobasis nigrina^ Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, p. 263, 1862. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. T. pt. 3, p. 299, t. 37, f. 133. Obs. ix. p. 121. 



208. G. proxima. Say. 



Melania proxima. Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 126, Sept. 1825. Reeve, 

 Monog. Melaaia, sp. 275. Binney's Edit, of Say, p. 115. Biauey, Check 

 List, No. 220. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 99, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., 

 p. 26. Gibbes' Report, p. 19. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 274. Brot, List, 

 p. 38. 



Melania carinata* Ravenel, Cat. p. 11, 1834. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 

 24. Binney, Check List, No. 47. 



Melania Taitiana, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 11, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans, viii. 

 p. 165, t. 5, f. 5. Obs. iii. p. 3. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 92. Wheatley, 

 Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Jay, Cat., 4th edit., p. 275. Binney, Check 

 List, No. 264. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 189. Reeve, Monog. Mela- 

 nia, sp. 444, Brot, List, p. 37. 



Melania rufa, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 12, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 167, t. 5, f. 8. Obs. iii. p. 5. Troost, Cat. Shells Tennessee. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Catlow, Conch. Ncmenc, p. 188. 



Melania rufescens, Lea, DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 93. Jay, Cat., 4th edit., p. 

 274. Binney, Check List, No. 233. Brot, List, p. 37. 



Melania approximata, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, No. 4, p. 4 of Cover, 

 Dec. 28, 1841. Jay, Cat., 4th edit., p. 272. Binney, Check List, No. 18. 

 Brot, List, p. 36. 



Melania abjecta,^ Haldeman, Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 341. Brot, List, 

 p. 34. 



(romo6ast« rMJnca<a, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 271, 1862. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 335, t. 38, f. 197. Obs. ix. p. 157, t. 38, f. 197. 



I. Striate species^ spire elevated. 



209. G. V i r g i n i c a, Gmelin. 



Buccinum Virginica, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. . Green, Trans., Alb. 



Inst., i. p. 135. Wood, Index Test., t. 24, f. 154. 



Paludina Virginica, Say, Nicholson's Encyc, iiL t. 2, f. 4. 



Melania Virginica, Say, Am. Conch., pt. 5, t. 47, f. 2. App. to Long's Exped., 

 ii. p. 265. Binney's Edit., p. 131 and 199. Binney, Check List, No. 

 291. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 189. Philippi, Neiier Conchylien 

 Melania, t. 2, f. 12. Hildreth, Am. Jour. Science, xxxi. p. 53. Sager, 

 Rept. Zool. Mich., p. 15. Conrad, Am. Jour. Science, N. S., i. p. 407. 

 Haldeman, Rupps Hist. Lancaster County, Pa., p. 479. Haldeman, 

 Am. Jour. Sci., xli. p. 22. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 90, t. 7, f. 141. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Hartman, Catalogue Shells Chester 

 Co., Pa. Brot, List, p, 35. Girard, Proc. National Inst., i. No. 2, p. 82. 

 Jay, Cat,, 4th edit., p. 275. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 321. 



Limnsea Virginica, Say, Short and Eaton, Notices, p. 82. 



Juga Virginica, Say, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 2019. 



Melania multilineata, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat Sci., ii. p. 380, Dec. 1822. Am, 



* I make this a sjnonym on the authority of Dr. Jay. 



1 1 doubt whether this shell really came from Arkansas, although the ettahlislied geographic*! 

 distribution of proxima is very great. 



1864.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Conch ology, pt. 5, t. 47, f. 2. Binney's Edit., p. Ill and 199. Binney, 



Check List, No. 169. DeKay, Moll. Rept. to Regents, p. 32. Moll. N. 



York, p. 97. Wheatley, Cat. Shellf? U. S., p. 26. Hartman, Cat. 



Shells Chester Co., Penna. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 187. Girard, 



Proc. Nat. Inst., i. No. 2, p. 82, March, 1856. Philippi, Neiier Con- 



chyl. Melania, t. 2, f. 13. 

 Melania auriscalpium.,* Menke. 

 Melania curta, Menke, Syn. Meth., p. 135, 1830, 

 Melania fasdata, Menke, Syn. Meth., p, 136, 1830. 

 Melania bizonalis, DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 91, t. 7, f. 140, a. b. 1843. Binney, 



Check List, No. 35. 

 Melania Buddii, DeKay, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 24. 

 Mdania ffemma,f DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 91, t. 7, f. 142, 1843. Binney, Check 



List, No. 119. Brot, List, p. 38. 

 Melania striggilata, Muhlfeldt,J in Litt. 

 Melania inemla, Anthony, Bost. Proc, iii., p. 362, Dec, 1850. Binney, 



Check List, No. 145. Brot, List, p. 58. 



210. G. gulcosa, Lea.§ 



Melania sulcosa, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 14, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 185, t. 6, f. 48. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 99. Troost, Cat. Shells 

 Tenn. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 189. Binney, Check List, No. 259. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Brot, List, p. 35. 



Ceriphasia sulcosa, Lea, Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. f. 1957. 



211. G. Buddii, Lea. 



Melania Buddii, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 165. Philos. Trans, x. p. 64, t. 9, f. 

 44. Obs. iv. p. 64. Binney, Check List, No. 42. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., 

 p. 273. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 324. 



212. G. Tr oos tiana. Lea. 



Melania Troostiana, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 34, April, 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 p. 92, t. 23, f. 86. Obs. ii. p. 92. DeKay, Moll. N. York, p. 100. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Binney, Cheek List, No. 276. 

 Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 275. Catlow, Conch. 

 Nomenc, p. 189, Brot, List, p. 35. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 339. 



213. G. lat it an s, Anthony. 



Melania lalitans, Anthony, Ann. Lye Nat. Hist. New York, vi. p. 88, t. 2, 

 f. 6, March, 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 159. Brot, List, p. 34, 



214. G. p or recta. Lea. 



Goniobasis porrecla, Lea, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., p. ^55, May, 1863, 



215. G. sculp til is, Lea. ^ 



Melania sculp tilts, Lea, Philos. Trans., x. p. 297, t. 30, f. 3. Obs. v. p. 53, 

 t. 30, f. 3. Binney, Check List, No. 238. BroJ, List, p. 38. 



216. G. cren atella. Lea. 



Melania crenateUa, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, p. 268, t. 35, f. 79, 

 March, 1863. Obs. ix. p. . Binney, Check List, No. 76. Brot, 

 List, p. 34. Reeve, Monog. Melania, sp. 457. 



*Prof. HaldPitiaii wa.s the first naturivligt who identified the vnrious doscriptiona of Meuke with 

 Virgiriica. Philippi han since figured some of these as Ta-icties of that species. 



t Tlii.s tihell has bi en refericd both t<» Virginica and to drpygix by American Authors. I do not 

 give a confl'lent opinion as to its proper place. About bizonalis of DeKay there can be no doubt. 



t Teste Philippi, Neuer Conchyl. 



J When perfect specimene of this shell are obtained, it may prove to be a Pleierocera instead of 

 ft O'oniobasit, . 



[Feb. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 49 



March \st. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



The following were presented for publication : — 



" Synonymy of the Strepomatidse of North America." By Geo. W. 

 Try on, Jr. 



" Thoughts on the Influence of Ether upon the Solar System." By 

 A. Wilcocks, M. D. Part III. 



March Sth. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Thirty members present. 

 The following was presented for publication : 



" Additions to the Catalogue of Stars which have changed their 

 colors." By Jacob Ennis. 



March Ibth. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



T?y^enty members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Note on the Nomenclature of Genera and Species of Echenei- 

 doidse," and " Description of a new labroid Genus allied to Trochoco- 

 pus." By Theo. Gill. 



" New Species of Mordellestina collected in Illinois." By C. A. 

 Helmuth, M. D. 



Notes on the Birds of Jamaica." By W. T. March, with remarks 

 by S. F. Baird. Part III. 



Dr. Leconte remarked, that his attention had been called to the following 

 passage in the Report on the progress of Entomology, by Dr. Gerstaecker, in 

 the last number of Troschel's Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, in which he refers 

 to the Classification of the Coleoptera of North America, Part 1, by Dr. Leconte. 



" Die Stjlopiden setzt der Verf. unter die Heteromeren, bemerkt aber das die 

 Tarsen nicht heteromer seien, was richtig ist. Friiher habe man sie als eigne 

 Ordnung betrachtet, aber die Kenntniss ihrer Verwandlungen, und eine gen- 

 auere, [more rigid !] Interpretation ihrer auseren Baues habe fast alle [nearly 

 all!] Systematiker daza bestimmt, sie unter die Kafer zu bringen. (Welche 

 Charactere hat ein Strepsipteron mit einem Kafer gemein ? — Keinen ! Wo sind 

 die Ubereinstimmungen der Larven und ihrer Lebensweise? Die Strepsipte- 

 ren Larven leben parasitisch in Hin'.erleibe von Hymenopteren, die Meloiden 

 Larven nahren sich von Honig ; beide haben also in der Lebensweise nichts 

 untereinander gemein.") 



" In Elementarbiichern solite man Absurditaten am Wenigsten fiir baare 

 Miinze ausgeben !" 



I do not propose here to enter into a discussion of the views which have in- 

 duced Lacordaire, Burmeister, Newman and Schaum to consider Stylopidae as 

 a family of Coleoptera, an opinion which many others have silently acquiesced 

 in. The subject was considered nearly exhausted, until reopened by Duval, ia 



1864.] 4 



V 




50 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY Of 



his note on the order Rhipiptera, (Gen. Col. Europe, 3,419), published BubsC' 

 quently to my work on Classification. 



I will, however, answer briefly the questions asked by Dr. Gerstaecker in the 

 passage above cited. 



The characters common to a Strepsipteron and various Coleoptera are these : 

 1. Hypermetamorphosis of the larva, (Meloidae) ; 2. Parasitism, (Rhipidius) ; 

 3. Retention of the Pupa within the skin of the larva, (Lampyridae, tribe Lycini, 

 genus Calopteron) ; 4. Unfitness of anterior wings for flight, (a character also 

 found in Orthoptera and Hemiptera, wbich, however, have no metamorphosis) ; 

 5. Large development of metatboracic segment. 



Even if the Stylopidae are considered as a distinct order — Strepsiptera — it 

 will be necessary to place them immediately after the Coleoptera. 



In view of the great variation of characters found in Coleoptera, it would seem 

 rational to consider Stylopidas as an extreme and degraded form of that order, 

 rather than to regai'd such a small number of objects, closely related in form, 

 structure and habits, as an equivalent to the great orders Coleoptera, Orthop- 

 tera and Hemiptera, with which alone they can be morphologically compared, 

 (characters 4 and 5). 



The information given by Dr. Gerstaecker regarding the difference in food 

 and manner of life between the larvae of Meloidta and Stylopidae, though not 

 original, is doubtless quite interesting, but seems to imply that I had compared 

 them together, which is not correct. 



Mr. Cassin called the attention of the Academy to the collection of birds 

 presented this evening by the Smithsonian Institution, and particularly referred 

 to several species of great rarity and scientific value. The Didunculu^ niriffirot- 

 tris is one of two species of birds now known to be approaching extinction, the 

 other species being Alca impennis. which is also in the Academy Museum. This 

 bird is the most nearly allied to the extinct Dodo, formerly of the Isle of France, 

 and inhabits the Samoan or Navigator Islands. Its extinction or approach to 

 it is said to be owing to the introduction into those islands of the domestic cat. 

 Not more than four or five specimens are known to be extant. 



Other little known types were pointed out and exhibited to the Academy, 

 Buch as Carpophaga Aurorm, Carpophaga latrans, Ariamus mentalis and others. 

 This interesting series is from the collection of the United States Exploring 

 Expedition of the Vincennes and Peacock, and is presented to the Academy by 

 the Smithsonian Institution. 



March 22d. 

 Vice-President Bbidqes in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Critical llemarks on the Genera Sebastes and Sebastodes," and 

 •' Second Contribution to the Selacology of California." By Theo. Gill. 



*' A Critical review of the Family Procellaridae ; Part I." By B. 

 Coues, M. D, 



" Thoughts on the Influence of Ether on the Solar System; Part IV." 

 .By Alex. Wilcocks, M. D. 



March 29M. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



[Mareb 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



On report of the respective committees, the following were ordered 

 to be published : — 



Additions to the Catalogue of STAES which have Changed their Colors ; of 



which have appeared with different Colors at different times.* 



BY JACOB ENNIS. 



Sirius. — On the re-appearance of this star daring the months of November 

 and December, 1863, I very carefully watched its color. Its decided change of 

 appearance since the early part of the year greatly interested me. Instead of 

 a full bright green, it was of a pale yellowish green. During those two months 

 the atmosphere passed through the extremesof variability, but the pale yellow- 

 ish green of Sirius remained constant. On the 29th of December I asked Dr. 

 Wilcocks, the discoverer of its being purple three years ago, how Sirius ap- 

 peared to him now ? Without knowing my opinion, and without any hesita- 

 tion, he answered, " It is not as green as it was when visible last winter." 

 This coincidence of his views with my own confirms the idea that he was not 

 mistaken three years ago, as he since supposed, when he regarded the color of 

 Sirius to be violet. According to these evidences this great star has had five 

 distinct colors : red during the ancient times ; white in 1850, and subsequently ; 

 violet in 1861 ; full green in the autum and winter of 1862 — 3 ; pale yellowish 

 green in November and December of 1863. 



Note of April 19<A, 1864. The above observations were written early in 

 January. For the last three or four weeks the green color of Sirius has again 

 been tinged with blue ; but this evening no blue is visible, and the yellow 

 nicgled with the green is conspicuous. In this I am confirmed by a member 

 of the Academy whose powers of observation are remarkably good. The clear- 

 ness of the atmosphere is perfect, but the moon is large and bright, and I have 

 a suspicion that the yellow of Sirius, though in a different quarter of the 

 heavens, may be due to the moon's reflected rays. The following portions of 

 this paper, except that on No. 21, were written previous to the lOth of Novem- 

 ber, 1863, at which date they were presented. 



Altair and Deneb, or Alpha Cygni. — The former of these stars was de- 

 scribed by Humboldt in 1850 as yellow and the latter as white. They were 

 numbered 18 and 19 in this Catalogue, and announced to be blue in June, 

 1863. I had watched them for several months nearly every clear night, and, 

 on the 20th of August, I first noticed that they were green. On all good nights 

 since then they have appeared to myself and to others, whose opinions I have 

 solicited, to be conspicuously green ; but on damp, slightly hazy nights, from 

 the effects of the atmosphere, they appear blue. It is rather oppressive for 

 me to make this announcement, for I have been obliged already, in a former 

 communication, to say that two other large stars, Sirius and Vega, had changed 

 from blue to green. Certainly this change does not arise from any peculiari- 

 ties of vision, for I have in all cases carefully consulted the views of others 

 and found them to accord with my own. I know not how to attribute the 

 change to atmospheric causes, for I had observed them all, except Sirius, to be 

 blue several months before. In all weathers. 



Vega. — For the last four or five weeks, this star has not appeared to me as 

 green as during last summer. Its rather bluish appearance may, perhaps, be 

 attributed to greater haziness of the atmosphere. 



Castor. — See No. 10 of this Catalogue. In addition to the colors already 

 given, the two companions of this doable star have been described as follows : 

 Yellow and yellowish by Sestini ; greenish yellow and green by Dembowski ; 



1864.] 



* See tbeae Proceeding* for 1863, pp. 26,96, 150. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



bright and pale white by Webb ; yellow and warm yellow by Miss Maria 

 Mitchell. 



20. Arctnrns. — This is one of the stars denominated red by the ancients ' 

 la modern times, according to reliable observations, it has changed its color 

 J. F. Julius Schmidt, formerly of Ulmutz, recently made Director of the Astro- 

 nomical Observatory at Athens, and distinguished for his observations on 

 yariable stars^ which he communicated to the Ast. Nacb., says, that for eleven 

 years he had considered Arcturus to be one of the reddest of the stars, and, 

 especially in 1841, he had ranked it in color with Mars. To his surprise in 

 1852 he saw it to be yellow, and entirely destitute of any reddish hue. It 

 then appeared to him by the naked eye lighter than Capella. Capella two 

 years before had been described by Humboldt as yellow, with scarcely a tinge 

 of red ; since then Capella has become blue. During the present year, 1863, 

 I have dozens of tines and in all weathers observed Arcturus to be decidedly 

 orange, and of a clear, beautiful color. In this I have been confirmed by 

 other observers. The colors of Arcturus may therefore be stated as having 

 been red, yellow and orange. 



References have already been made in this Catalogue to the changes of color 

 in double and multiple stars. The numbers, such as 3 : 7J, immediately after 

 the names of the following double stars, indicate the magnitudes of the com- 

 panions. The authorities are given after the colors. Some of these I have 

 taken from the original papers, and some I have not so verified, but presume 

 them all to be correct. 



21. 95 Herculis, 5 : 5. — Hitheito catalogued as a diversely colored pair of 

 stars to an extreme degree: one being described as apple green and the other 

 as cherry red, and also as an astonishing yellow green and an egregious red. 

 In 1856 — 58 they were nearly colorless and without any diversity of tint, and 

 in this latter manner they were described by Struve in 1832 — 3, and by Sestini 

 in 1844 — 5. Hence a probability of their being colorless once in about twelve 

 years." — C. Piazzi Smyth.* 



In the November number, 1863, of the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astro- 

 nomical Society, a suggestion is made, from very high authority, that because 

 the changes in the two companions have in all these cases been simultaneous, 

 they are liable to the suspicion of having been produced by instrumental 

 causes. But this apparent simultaneousness of change may have been pro- 

 duced by a real change in only one of them. If the two stars were white and 

 one of them were to change to an " egregious red," then by contrast in close 

 proximity, from the well known principle of complementary colors, the other 

 would necessarily appear green. The operation of this principle has been very 

 conspicuous in this city during political demonstrations and celebrations, when 

 bright red lights have been kept burning in the streets. The ordinary gas- 

 lights all around them have appeared strongly green. It is submitted that this 

 cause for the simultaneous change in both stars is more probable by far than 

 that three different instruments, in the hands of three different men, in three 

 different countries and at as many different periods, should all, from some un- 

 known cause, fall into the same error ; and this not when directed at the stars 

 generally, but only when pointed to a particular one. 



22. Mizar, Zeta Ursae Majoris, 3 : 4. — Both greenish white. Struve. 



White and pale green. Webb. 



Both yellow, the 4 has the deeper hue. Mitchell, 1860, April 30.f 



23. Xi Bootis, 3J : 6J.— Orange and purple. Webb. J 



Pale yellow and Orange. Mitchell, 1862, July 6. 



* See the Proceedings of the British Scientific Association for 1863. 

 t See American Journal of Science and Art. July. 1863, for Miss Mitchell's observations, 

 j For several valuable popular papers on the double stars, by the Kev. Mr. Webb, see the first 

 kmr volume* of the HtelUctwd Obsen>er, London. 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



24. 32 Eridani, 5 : 1. — Bright yellow and flushed blue. Webb. 



Orange yellow and pale blue. Mitchell, 1861, Jan. 31. 

 Yellow and pale green, very decided. Mitchell, 1862, Dec. 28. 

 Yellow and green. Mitchell, 1863, Jan. 1. 



25. Gamma Virginis, 4 : 4. — Silvery white and pale yellow. Webb. 



Both yellow. Mitchell, 1860, Feb. 20. 



26. 35 Piscium, 6 : 8. — White and purplish. Webb. 



The 6 is light yellow. The 8 is peculiar ; there is a brown mingling 

 with its reddish light. Mitchell, 1860, Jan. 2. 



27. 23 Ononis, 5 : 7. — Greenish white and white. Struve. 



Creamy white and blue. Webb. 



The 7 is of a darkish color. Mitchell, 1860, Mar. 6. 



28. 39 Ophiuchi, 5 J : 7^.— Pale orange and blue. 1838. 



The 7^ yellow. Sestini, 1846. 

 " bluish. Smyth, 1851. 

 " clear blue. Webb, 1854. 



29. Polaris, Alpha Ursse Minoris, 2J : 9^. — Yellow and dull white. Struve. 



Yellow and blue. Sestini, Dawes, Webb. 



30. Iota Cancri,5j : 8.— The 8 deep garnet, Feb. 8, 1782 ; bluish Dec. 2S, 



1782 ; and blue, Mar. 12, 1785. Herschel, Sr. 

 Pale orange and clear blue. Webb. 



31. Sigma Scorpii, 4 : 9J. — The 9|^ white. Sestini. 



Dusky and plum color. Webb. 



32. Delta Corvi, 3 : 8|.— The 8^ white. Sestini. 



Pale yellow and purple. Webb. 



33. Pi Bootis, 3J : 6.— Both white ; a ruddy tinge sometimes in 6. Webb. 



34. Alpha Herculis, 3 J : 5J. — " Intense caerulea." Struve. 



Orange and emerald. Webb. 



35. Delta Serpentis, 3 : 5. — Yellow tints. Dembowski. 



Bright white and bluish white. Webb. 

 Both Bluish. Webb. 



36. Eta Cassiopeae, 4 : 7J. — " Flava et purpurea." Struve, Fletcher. 



Red and green. Herschel, Jr., South. 

 Yellow and orange. Sestini. 

 Dull white and lilac. Webb. 



37. Iota Bootis, 4J : 8. — The 8 azure. Sestini. 



The 8 lilac. Webb, 1850. 



Light yellow and dusky white. Webb, 1850. 



38. 39 Bootis, 5 J : 6J. — White and lilac. Some writers ascribe a bluish and 



some a ruddy tint to 6J. Webb. 



39. Epsilon Lyra. — The two coraplinions of this double star are designated. 



Epsilon 1 and Epsilon 2. Each of these again are double. ' 



Epsilon 1, 5 : 6J. Yellow and ruddy. Webb. 



During five years the 5 was bluish. Struve, Dembowski. 



40. Gamma Cygni, 4 : 7. — Both white. Herschel, Sr. 



Viridi-caerulea. Struve. 



The 7 light emerald. Smyth, 1839. 



Golden yellow and flushed grey. Webb, 1850. 



41. Beta Lyrae. — A quadruple star; 3 ; 8 : 8J : 9, 



1864.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



42. Gamma Lyrse, of 3d magnitude. — Both these stars, Beta Lyrse and Gam- 



Ljrae, seem to be changing their colors. Herschel, Sr., and South 

 gave Beta as ■white. Next, Smyth, in 1834, gave the general im- 

 pression as white, the four companions being in the following 

 order: very white and splendid, pale grey, faint yellow, light blue. 

 He gave Gamma Lyrae then as being bright yellow. Schmidt re- 

 garded the colors of both Beta and Gamma the same- — yellowish 

 white — from 1844 to 1855. Webb, in 1849 — 50, regarded Gamma 

 as much less yellow than Beta, if not white. In 1862, the latter 

 observer found Gamma the paler in tint, though the difference was 

 not considerable. According to these statements Beta changed from 

 white to yellow and Gamma from yellow to white. Both were of 

 the same color, — yellowish white, — according to Schmidt, about 

 1844. The only discrepancy is Schmidt, for the latter portion of 

 his time, the former portion being remarkably confirmative. 



43. Eta Lyrae, 5 : 9. — Caerulea. Struve, during five years, about 1830. 



Sky blue and violet. Webb, 1834. 

 The 5, yellow. " 1849—50. 



" pale yellow. " 1862. 



44. Gamma Andromedae, 3 J : 5^. — Deep yellow and sea green. Webb, 1862. 



The 6^ is double, and the colors of the two latter have been 



given as follows : 

 Subviridis et violacea. Secchi, 1856. 

 Yellow and blue. Sir W. K. Murray, 1857. 



" " Dawes, Jacob. 



45. Gamma Arietis, 4h : 5. — Both " egregie albae." Struve, 1830. 



White. Dem"bowski, 1852, 1854, 1856. 



The same, either white or light yellow. Piazzi Smyth, 1856. 



Full white and faint blue. Webb, 1862. 



46. Iota Trianguli, 5J : T.—White or yellow and blue. Secchi. 



Topaz yellow and green. Webb, 1862. 



47. Gamma Ceti, 3 : 7.— The 7 tawny. Webb, 1850. 



Pale yeilow and lucid blue. Webb, 1863. 



48. Gamma Leonis, 2 : 4.— AVhite and reddish white. Herschel, Sr. 



Bright orange and greenish yellow. Webb. 



49. 72 P. II. Cassiopcie, 4.} : 7 : 9. — White, blue, ruddy violet. Dembow- 



ski. 1854—6. 

 Pale yellow, lilac, blue. Webb, 1863. 



50. Kappa Cephei, 4| : 8J — The 4^ greenish. Struve. 



Pale yellow and blue. Webb, 1863. 



51. Zeta Cephei, 5 : 7. — Yellowish and blue. Struve, 1831. 



Both bluish. Smyth, 1839. 



White and tawny or ruddy. Webb, 1850. 

 Flushed white and pale lilac. " 1851. 



52. 40 Draconis, 5J : 6.— Both white. Struve, 1832. 



Both white. Webb, 1839. 



Both white or yellowish. Webb, 1850. 



Both yellow, the 5i deeper. " 1856 and 1863. 



53. 12 Canum Venaticorum, 2^ : 6J. — White and red. Herschel, Sr. 



" With all attention I could perceive no contrast of colors in the 

 two stars." Herschel, Jr., 1830. 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. W 



Both white. Struve, 1830. 



Yellow and blue. Sestini, 1844. 



Full white and very pale white. Smylh, 1850. 



White or a little yellowish, and tawny or lilac. Webb, 1850. 



Pale reddish white and lilac. Smyth, 1855. 



White and pale olive blue. Dembowski, 1356. 



Same as in 1850, but with very little contrast. Webb, 1862. 



Flushed white and pale lilac. Webb, 1862. 



54. Sigma Coron?e, 6 : 6J. — Creamy white and smalt blue. Webb, 1862. 



The 6^ has had many changes, as follows ; certainly not blue and 

 diflFering very little from the other. South, 1825. 



While. Struve, 1836. 



A yellow ashy and doubtful blue. Dembowski, 1854 — 57. 



Sometimes blue, sometimes yellow. Secchi, 1855 — 57. 



" At one time ruddy, at another time bluish, apparently changing 

 white being looked at ; a versatility of hue which I have re- 

 marked in other stars similarly circumstanced." Webb, 1850 — 5. 



55. Mu Cygni, 5 : 6.— White and pale blue. Struve, 1831. 



Yellow and more yellow. Sestini, 1844. 

 Reddish yellow and olive. Dembowski, 1853 — 4. 

 Clear light yellow and ashy yellow. Dembowski, 1855. 

 " The 5 yellow, while the 6 showed the curious effect of an unde- 

 cided and changeable hue — blue and tawny." Webb, 1850 — 1. 

 The 5 yellow. Webb, 1862. 

 "Secchi's colors are here uncertain and variable." 



56. Alpha Piscium, 5 : 6. — Greenish and pale blue. " There seems to be 



something peculiar in the color of the smaller star, as to which 

 observers are strongly at variance with each other, and even 

 with themselves. Some see no contrast, some agree with Smyth, 

 some find it tawny and ruddy. The details are curious but too 

 long for insertion here. Other small stars show a similar uncer- 

 tainty." Webb. 



The frequent changes in some of these stars, — the last three or four of this 

 Catalogue especially, — are remarkable, and seem inexplicable to astronomers. I 

 presume the difiBculty arises, not as is supposed from the atmosphere, or from the 

 instruments, or from personal peculiarities, but chiefly from the frequency of the 

 real changes in the stars. If, for instance, it be complained that " Secchi's 

 colors are uncertain and variable," it is because in such instances the colors 

 of the stars are uncertain and variable. 



An addition has been made to the title of this Catalogue to obviate the ob- 

 jection that possibly some of the apparent changes of color of the stars may 

 be merely the errors of observation, or the effects of the atmosphere, and not 

 real changes in tSe celestial bodies. Nevertheless, an apparent change is a 

 fact in the constitution of the world, and deserves a notice and an explana- 

 tion. From whatever causes these changes may arise, there is needed a faithful 

 collection of all the facts in this department of astronomy. They are scattered 

 about in many volumes and many various scientific depositories, and no one, 

 as far as 1 am aware, has brought them together or made them a special study. 

 But in making such a collection, or catalogue, no changes should be omitted. 

 Whether we regard them as apparent or real, whether they be small or great 

 whether they may have been slow or sudden, none should be suppressed by 

 the compiler in his catalogue. To admit some and reject others because in 

 his opinion some are right and others are wrong, would be making his work a 

 confused medley of facts and opinions unworthy of reliance. If, as appears 

 undeniable, there be changes in the colors of the stars, then, from the nature 

 of things, there may be small changes as well as great ones. To reject a le- 



1864.] 




56 PROCEEDINaS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



corded change simply because it is small, would therefore be a real misrepre- 

 sentation of the case, and a virtual falsification of the records. Moreover, 

 the colors as they stand recorded are from experienced observers, — men whose 

 lives have been devoted to an accurate representation of facts, who do nothing 

 without care and deliberation, and whose common and avowed practice is not 

 to record any color when the atmosphere is not favorable for such obser- 

 vations. 



As already stated, there are difiBculties in deciding on colors by the naked 

 eye when the star is not large, and when the departure from white is small. 

 But this difficulty is not in the way of large stars, as Arcturus and Sirias ; 

 nor does it apply to the telescope, except in the very smallest magnitudes. To 

 decide between two diflerent colors, such as red and blue, is never difficult : 

 and when two colors are blended, it is the custom to name them both, as bluish 

 green, reddish yellow, and the like. The disturbing effects of the atmosphere, 

 or of the instrument, may be detected either immediately or after several nights 

 of observation. The atmosphere cannot color one star and leave all the other 

 stars in the same neighborhood uncolored. The telescope cannot act pecu- 

 liarly on any one star : it must treat all alike, especially of the same magni- 

 tude and color. Simple comparison is therefore an admirable test ; and another 

 important test is time — watchfulness every night through different changes of 

 weather. If hereafter even this shall not be found satisfactory in any one locality, 

 then simultaneous observations at widely distant places will most certainly 

 eliminate all suspicion of mistake. For instance, observations may be made 

 at Australia, the Cape of Good Hope, and Chili in the southern hemisphere; 

 and in the northern hemisphere both on the Pacific and Atlantic coasts of 

 America, on the Atlantic coast of Europe, in Russia, and in Hindoostan. If 

 the star shall prove of the same color at all these different regions at the same 

 time in favorable weather, then that color may be regarded as unquestionable. 

 Even by using one locality alone absolute certainty may be acquired, — as the 

 red colors of Aldebaran, Betelgueze, and Antares. The same certainty may 

 be looked for in this as in other departments of astronomy, and even greater 

 certainty than in many. There is an uncertainty, in opinions of wise men, of 

 three millions of miles in the distance of the earth from the sun ; and yet this 

 uncertain distance is used as a measuring line to fathom other and far greater 

 distances. But this uncertainty to so large a degree does not take away from 

 the supreme value of the determinations nevertheless. These determinations, 

 with all their known reservations, are held as of the highest importance. So 

 in the colors of the stars ; mistakes may be made, the intermixtures of 

 error may certainly exist, though we cannot tell exactly where they are, and 

 yet the present recorded observations are precious beyond estimation. And a 

 time is coming when simultaneous observations from various positions in both 

 hemispheres will render them beyond suspicion. To hasten on this time we 

 have only to make good use of the materials already on hand. 



Why the changes in the colors of the stars are not more frequently observed, 

 was pointed out in a former communication. Why the belief in their real oc- 

 currence is hard to be admitted, and why their observed changes are ascribed 

 to supposable errors from the instruments, from the atmosphere, and from per- 

 sonal deficiencies, seems to arise from the opinion that such vast bodies cannot 

 possibly undergo great changes in a short time. But this opinion rests on no 

 known scientific grounds. When fairly viewed, the fixedness of the colors of 

 the stars should not seem more likely than the fixedness of their positions. 

 Indeed the two ideas are very much alike. In ancient phrase, the stars were 

 said to be " rivetted " to the vault of heaven. Now we know from observations 

 more refined that many of them move, and we have a conviction, from the na- 

 ture of attraction, that they must all move. In like manner, in a universe 

 where every known object is subject to change in various ways, our first ideas 

 should be that the colors of all the stars must change. Hence we should ap- 

 proach the recorded changes with favorable judgments. If we are to have any 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 57 



prepossessions in the case, they should be that the changes are real in the stars 

 themselves. And when we reflect on the habitual caution of long experienced 

 observers, men whose very existence is devoted to the accurate delineation 

 of fact, we should place a hish reliance on their recorded observations, and . 

 not think that they have lightly allowed themselves to be imposed upon by 

 optical illusions. 



I cannot hope to be able to add anything to the knowledge of practised ob- 

 servers respecting the sources of error and the rules to be observed in making 

 observations ; but as these have never, that I am aware, been embodied in 

 print, I offer the following, chiefly for the assistance of the many who may 

 be disposed so observe the larger stars with the naked eyes. Such stars are 

 indeed very few, but the observations may be the more useful from being made 

 frequently and by many persons. 



1. Damp and slightly hazy atmospheres make a green star appear blue. 

 This may be from the same principle that the deep ocean, the clear sky, and 

 the distant mountains appear blue. Damp nights that are perfectly clear do 

 not have this efi'ect. 



2. Moonlight greatly obscures the colors of the stars, giving them a yellowish 

 hue. 



3. Before the daybreak makes its appearance in the east, the rays of the sun 

 refracted through the higher regions of the atmosphere, may cause a general 

 whiteness of the stars. 



4. Artificial lights reaching the eye obscure the colors of the stars. 



5. On account of the faintness of the light of the stars, the eye ofien requires 

 to be fixed upon them for a considerable time before their impressions take 

 full effect. 



6. Comparisons between neighboring stars, and some practice in star ob- 

 servations, are often necessary to decide on the real colors of the stars. 



7. The atmosphere must have like effects upon similar stars in the same 

 neighborhood. Hence a peculiarity observed in any star may be brought to a 

 determination. 



8. Observations on the same star during a considerable interval of time and 

 through different changes of weather, may aid in giving confidence to a deter- 

 mination. 



9. Perfect independence and candor are necessary. Our previous judgments 

 are apt to warp these dslicate impressions on the retina, and whether we have 

 derived these judgments from ourselves or others, we must be careful to lay 

 them completely aside. For want of doing this we may not notice a change of 

 color, although such a change may have been before our vision. 



10. Personal peculiarities of vision may be ascertained by consultation with 

 others. 



11. Discrepancies between the accounts of two observers may arise from 

 differences of dates; hence, in apprehension of sudden and frequent changes in 

 the stars, the dates of observations should be carefully given. 



Description of a new Labroid Genus allied to TROCHOCOPTJS Gthr. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Dr. Ayres has indicated, under the name Labrus pulcher, a Californian 

 representative of the family of Labroids. That species was subsequently 

 referred by Dr. Giinther to his genus Semicossyphus, in which it was retained 

 by myself with the proviso that " its generic position remains to be con- 

 firmed, although there is little doubt that it really is a Semicossyphus." Hav- 

 ing since received, through the kindness of Dr. Cooper, a specimen of the 

 species, I find that it has not the " lateral teeth distinct," as in Semicossyphus, 

 but an " obtuse osseous ridge round the edge of the jaws, without distinct 

 lateral teeth," as in Trochocopus Gthr., to which Giinther should have referred 

 it. I am not acquainted with bis reasons for considering the species closely 



1864.] 




58 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



related to the type of Semicossyphus, but previously followed him, as he was 

 acquainted with Semicossyphus and Trochocopus through autopsy, while I 

 was not. 



Genus PIMELOMETOPON Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 Labrus sp. Ayres. 

 Semicossyphus sp. Giinther, Gill. 



Body oblong, moderately compressed, with the caudal peduncle little 

 oblong and not constricted : anus subcentral. 



Scales generally rather small, in about fifty-five to sixty-five transverse 

 rows; on the breast smallest: each scale is oblong, subangulated behind, 

 little convex or truncated at base, corrugated at the centre, with numerous 

 lines radiating backwards towards the base and sides ; and in front with 

 generally undulated lines parallel with the sides ; exposed surface vertically 

 rhomboid. 



Lateral line continuous, simply tubular, parallel with the dorsal outline, 

 little decurved backwards, and not at all deflected. 



Head nearly equally long and high, with the snout elongated and decurved. 

 Eyes submedian between the snout and opercular margin or little anterior, 

 rather small. Cheeks covered with small scales ; larger ones on all the 

 opercular bones, except the preoperculum, whose limbs are naked. Oper- 

 cular bones unarmed ; suboperculum with no membranaceous extension. 

 Nostrils minute, simple, in front of the upper portion of the eye. 



Mouth little protractile, with the cleft oblique. Lips thick and plicated. 



Intermaxillary and supramaxillary bones connected by arthrodial articula- 

 tion ; intermaxillaries with the ascending processes about as long as the 

 horizontal and extending nearly to the eyes, little curved and oblong cunei- 

 form in profile for two-thirds of their length, oblong subtrihedral behind; 

 the horizontal limbs uniformly wide, thick but compressed, and with a pro- 

 minent articulation behind. Supramaxillars divided into two parts ; an 

 anterior laminar behind and within the posterior part, widening towards the 

 front into a somewhat concave or channeled process arthrodially articulated 

 with the outer surface of the intermaxillars, and thence recurrent in a nearly 

 parabolic curve backwards and thence downwards to the front to articulate 

 with the inner surface of the intermaxillars ; the posterior portion of the 

 supramaxillars is flat and expanded backwards towards its inferior angle, and 

 ceases nearly under the front of the eye. Dentary rapidly increasing in 

 height towards the angle. 



Teeth on the crest of the jaws cylindro-conic and obtuse, completely iso- 

 lated ; four in front of the jaws developed as large curved blunt canines ; 

 the hinderraost one in jaw above sometimes little larger than the preceding ; 

 in others a true canine :* on the inner surface of the jaws, granular and 

 pluriserial. 



Branchiostegal rays seven (in Pimelomelopon Darwinii fide Val. 



Dorsal fin wih no scales, entire, commencing rather behind the bases of 

 the pectoral fins; typically with twelve spines and ten rays; the spinous 

 portion nearly uniform, rather low, and with each spine enveloped in a mem- 

 branaceous produced sheath ; the soft portion falciform, produced at its 

 anterior portion. 



Anal fin with three graduated spines, and with its soft portion opposite and 

 similar to that of the dorsal. 



Caudal fin typically lunate and with prolonged pointed lobes. 



Pectoral fins rather narrow, obliquely truncated behind. 



Ventral fins inserted beneath or scarcely behind the pectoral and angnlated. 



D. XII. 10. A. in. 12. 



Scales 58—62. 



The lower pharyngeal bone is T-shaped, divided into two parts ; the body 



*I« the development of a posterior canine tooth a sexual distinction in this genusf 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



transversely triangular, scarcely sinuous behind and uniformly high, with its 

 ends scarcely curved backwards to its posterior facettes, which are narrow, 

 little prominent above and separated from the dentigerous area by a con- 

 traction ; the shaft is laminar, expanded obliquely downwards and forwards. 

 The teeth on the body are nearly uniform, moderate, and paved, and on the 

 crest of the shaft obtusely cylindro-conic. The upper pharyngeal bones are 

 high, curved in front, on which is a tessellated pavement and which is nearly 

 rectangular to the inferior surface, which is paved towards the inner side with 

 moderate and towards the outer with minute teeth. 



The gill rakers on the outer surface of the first branchial arch are 

 short compressed, parallel with the arch, bi- or multidentate ; the others are 

 oblique and more or less compressed at right angle to the arches. 



Type Pimelometopon pulcher Gill. 



This genus is very closely related to Trochocopus (Giinther), but dififera in 

 the possession of a greater number of scales and the form of the head. It is 

 also solely represented by species found along the western coasts of America 

 and the appertaining islands, while Trochocopus is a peculiar African type, 

 so far as yet known. 



Of the two known species of this genus, one — the type — was originally 

 described as a Labrus by Ayres in San Francisco ; the other was first made 

 known by Jenyns under the generic name Cossyphus and was afterwards, by 

 Valenciennes, described as a new species of Labrus. Dr. Giinther subse- 

 quently referred the Californian species to his genus Semicossyphus and th« 

 species of Jenyns and Valenciennes to Trochocopus; he was acquainted 

 with neither through autopsy. Finally, the writer, following Giinther and 

 unacquainted with either Semicossyphus or Trochocopus, retained the Cali- 

 fornian species in the former genus. 



Pimelomotopon belongs to the subfamily of Chceropinae as understood by 

 me. It is proper to here remark that, by an evident inadvertence, the sub- 

 family Pseudolabriformes of Bleeker was formerly* enumerated among those 

 considered valid by myself, instead of among those requiring revision. 



There are two known species of the genus Pimelometopon : 



Pimelometopon pulcher Gill = Labrus pulcher Ayres = Semicossyphus 

 pulcher Giinther, Oill. 



California. 



Pimelometopon Darwinii Gill = Cossyphus Darwinii Jenyns = Labrus 

 aper Val. 



Gallopagos Islands. 



N. B. In anticipation of a special paper, I may here state that the Sebastes ! 

 helvomaculatus of Ayres is the true Sebastes rosaceus of Girard, [Sebastomusf ro- 

 saceus Gill,) widely different from the Sebastodes ! rosaceus of Ayres. The latter 

 may be named Sebaslosomus pinniger. 



Note on the Nomenclatare of Genera and Species of the Family 

 ECHENEIDOID.E. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In order to correct the nomenclature of two of the genera of the family 

 Echeneidoidse, the following paper is submitted. I also embrace the oppor- 

 tunity of restoring to proper rank, as the true names of peculiar species, two 

 which have been connected with forms to which they do not truly belong. 



M. Auguste Dumeril, in a "Prodrome" of a projected Monograph of the 

 family, (Comptes Rendus, tome 47, 1858, pp. 374—378,) has proposed to 

 distribute the species among two groups, one typified by Echeneis naucrates, 

 and named Naucrates, and the other, represented by E. remora and called 

 Removes. Elevating these types with others to independent generic rank, I 



1861.] 



♦ Proc. A. N, S. 1833, p. 221. 



t Sebastoaomus, n. g. Type Stbastqsormis melanops = Sebastes melanops Girard. 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



have restricted Echeneis to the genus typified by E. naucrates and called that 

 one typified by E. retnora, Remora, which name Dr. Bleeker has since ac- 

 cepted. On examining the works of Linnaeus and Artedi, I find, however, 

 that E. remora was the only species referred to that genus by Linnaeus in the 

 earlier editions of the Systema Naturae, and by Artedi ; and that in the later 

 editions, Linnaeus placed that species at the head of the genus. The E. re- 

 mora must consequently be regarded as the type of the genus, and a new 

 name {Leptecheneis) conferred on E. naucrates. The genera of Echeneidoidae 

 will then be known by the following names : 



REMORA. 



Echeneis Remora L. 



1. Echeneis L., Art. Type, Echeneis remora L. 



2. Remoropsis Gill. Type, Echeneis brachyptera Lowe. 



3. Rhombochirus fxill. Type, Echeneis osteochir Cuv. 



4. Remilegia Gill. Type, Echeneis australis Bennet = Echeneis scutata 



Gunther. 



LEPTECHENEIDES. 



5. Leptecheneis Gill. Type, Echeneis neucrates L. 



6. Phtheirichthys Gill. Type Echeneis lineatus Menzies. 



In a Synopsis given in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philada., for April, 1862, (p. 239,) an analytical table is given, in 

 which the genera are distributed as follows : 

 Echeneides (Echeneis = Leptecheneis, Phtheirichthys.) 

 Remorae (Remora = Echeneis, Remilegia.) 



Subsequently, (op. cit., 1863, p. 88,) the genera Remoropsis and Rhombo- 

 chirus were added. 



The genus Remilegia is known to me chiefly through the excellent figure 

 accompanying Giinther's valuable account of the family in the " Annals and 

 Magazine of Natural History," (vol. v. 1800, pp. 386—402.) On the other 

 hand, I have enjoyed the opportunity of examining two types, — Rhombo- 

 chirus and Phtheirichthys, — not seen by that gentleman. 



While fully appreciating the great service rendered to science by Dr. Giin- 

 ther in reducing the synonymy of the present family, and in many respects 

 agreeing with him in his views regarding the limits of the species and their 

 synonymy, I am compelled to differ from him, especially regarding the 

 nomenclature of the species called by him Echeneis Holbrookii Gthr., and E. 

 scutata Gthr., believing that both had long previously received names known, 

 indeed, to him, but referred to species which they did not really represent. 



Echeneis Holbrooki of Gunther, Cat., should have been called Echeneis alhi- 

 cauda, as it is the Echeneis albicauda of Mitohill. Mitchill's name is, indeed, in- 

 cluded, with special emphasis, in the synonymy of Giinther's Echeneis nau- 

 crates (Leptecheneis neucrates), but the following juxtaposition of all essential 

 characters given by both authors will show the incorrectness of this view : 



" E. naucrates." 



Disk "(21) 22-25 (26)" 

 "The length of the 

 disk 4^—4 4 in the to- 

 tal or twice the width 

 of the body between the 

 pectorals." Gthr., ii. p. 

 384. 



Width to length (= 1 : 

 4i — 4 3 X 2) = 1 : 9 



"E. Holbrookii." 



Disk "21." 



"The length of the 

 disk is 3 4 in the to- 

 tal, or twice the width 

 of the body between the 

 pectorals." Gthr., ii. 

 383. 



Length to width = 1 : 

 (3 4 X 2) 7 h 



" E. albicauda." 



Disk "21." 

 " Length twenty inches 

 and a half; breadth al- 

 most three." Mitcliill. 



Length to width 



(20^ 



3^)6|. 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



As Mitchill's notice of Echeneis albicauda gives a relative width, to the 

 body even greater than that attributed by Gunther to his E. Holbrookii, and 

 far greater than that assigned by him to E. naucrates, and as Echeneis albi- 

 cauda has "twenty-one bars across the shield," also in E. Holbrookii 

 "the number of laminae has been constantly found to be twenty-one — a 

 number of very rare occurrence in E. naucrates," — the reasons for Giinther's 

 insistence on the reference of Mitchill's name to E. naucrates and bestowal 

 of a new one on his species are not evident. I cannot appreciate the force of 

 his remark that Mitchill's " is an imaginary species," and that the name, 

 " as is qui e clear, was originally not intended for the fish afterwards de- 

 scribed by Holbrook as E. lineata, but merely for specimens of E. naucrates 

 with a white margin to the fins." 



Long before the communications of Mitchill, and as early as the year 1788, 

 a species of the genus Leptecheneis was made known by Zuiew in a special 

 article {Echeneidis nova species) in the Nova Acta Academise Scientiarum Im- 

 perialis Petropolitanse (iv. 279 — 283, tab. VI.) The species was well and 

 elaborately described and illustrated, and was especially distinguished from 

 E. naucrates by the much longer lower jaw and the longer disk, which 

 nevertheless had a smaller number of laminae (20.) The species thus intro- 

 duced was named Echeneis neucratoides ; its habitat was unknown. 



While it is thus seen that two forms with a comparatively small number 

 of laminae had been early made known, and that the proportions assigned to 

 one agreed nearly with those attributed to E. Holbrookii by Giinther, it is 

 necessary to add that none of the specimens examined by myself had so long 

 a disk or so wide a body as the individuals noticed by Gunther, although I 

 have had the opportunity of examining specimens of the genus exhibiting 

 every gradation between eighteen and twenty-five laminae. I shall not, how- 

 ever, offer any decided opinion at present, but close with the assertion that 

 DeKay's and Holbrook's specimens had not the proportions of the E. Hol- 

 brookii of the Acanthopterygian Fishes, but agreed with those seen by my- 

 self. As Giinther's E. Holbrookii was entirely founded on the E. lineata of 

 Holbrook in the first instance, that name must of course be considered as a 

 synonym. 



Tlie Echeneis scutata of Giinther had first received a name from F. D. Ben- 

 nett iu his " Narrative of a Whaling Voyage round the Globe, from the year 

 1833 to 1836."* In that work, Bennett gave a very recognizable description 

 of it under the name Echeneis australis.] Bennett's name has been referred 

 by Giinther to the synonymy of Leptecheneis neucrates, like E. albicauda, 

 but, as will be shown, erroneously. Bennett has stated that the E. australis 

 exceeds the E. remora — especially recognized by Gunther as that species— in 

 size. "One individual captured, and which was by no means the largest 

 one observed, measured one foot five inches in length, and was proportionally 

 broad." This statement at once would render the identity of the species 

 with E. naucrates extremely improbable, as the latter species has an incom- 

 parably more slender body. The further statement that the dorsal has "21" 

 rays, and the anal "24," completes the evidence of its diflTerence from L. 

 neucrates, that species having the formula D. "(21) 22 — 25 (26) 33—41. A 

 32—38," (Giinther). As Benaett's formula ("D. 21. A. 24") specially 

 agrees with Giinther's formula of E. scutata— C D. 27 | 22. A. 21—23"), 

 and, as of three examples of Bennetts species, "one only had 24 striae on 

 the buckler, the other two had 26, " thus also specifically agreeing with E. scu- 

 tata (" D. 27 I "), the identity of the two nominal species is almost certain, 

 and Bennett's name {Remilegia australis,) as the prior one, must be accepted. 



* Op.cit., vol. ii. 1840, p. 273. 



t The name of Echeneis australis was firBt introducei) into Science by Bennett, as that of a new 

 species. A Leptecheneis — probably L. neucrates — had been previously figured in Griffith's Cuvier 

 under the English name of " Australian remora," but no attempt at identification of the two was 

 made by ISenuett, and the species belong to widely distinct genera. 



1864.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OV THS ACADEMY OV 



(Oommnnicated by the Smithsonian Institution.) 



Kotes on the BIBDS of Jamaica. 



BY W. T. MARCH. 



With remarkB by S. F. Bairs. 



III. 



ARDEfDJS. 



All the North American Ardeidae are to be obtained in the Island of Jamaica. 

 The Gaulins and Bitterns are of more frequent occurrence than the larger He- 

 rons, and are found at all seasons and in every part of the island where 

 there is water, — at the cattle ponds, along the river courses, in the mangrove 

 swamps, lagoons, and marshes, and in considerable numbers on the neighbor- 

 ing islets and kays during the breeding season. The Ardeidse all build on 

 trees ; the nests are platforms, constructed of sticks filled in with leaves, 

 trash, twigs and bark, forming a shallow bedding, on which the eggs are de- 

 posited. In the mangroves the nest is composed principally of the decaying 

 pods of the black mangrove. 



The eggs of all are emerald green, or rather, of the tint called aqua- 

 marine, varying in shade, and in dimensions according to the size of the 

 bird ; those of the Gaulins are four or five in number, measuring about 

 1 tI ^y 1 T^g of an inch ; the typical eggs rounded at both ends, though 

 some are pointed at one end ; a small kay off Old Harbor, known as Barebush 

 Kay, is a favorite resort of all the Gaulins, Bitterns and Night Herons during 

 the breeding season. 



The larger Herons are not of so frequent occurrence as the Gaulins and 

 other Ardeidae during the late spring and summer months ; but Ardea hero- 

 dias and Ilerodias egretta are not uncommon during the autumn and winter ; 

 they are, however, more difficult of approach than the smaller species, being 

 very wary and vigilant ; their resort during the breeding season is usually 

 to the deep recesses of the mangrove swamps and morasses. Their eggs are 

 of similar form and color, but larger than those of the Night Heron. I have 

 not often met with the nest of the larger Herons ; but have notes of two, — 

 one from Salt Island Creek, Ilerodias egretta, containing three eggs, and 

 the other, Ardea herodias with four eggs from the Ferry Lagoon. On both 

 occasions the nests were taken from the topmost branches of a Corkwood 

 (Anona palusiris). The Herons are generally in good condition from the fall 

 of the year until the following spring, but, as with most of the fish-feeding 

 birds, must be divested of the skin, which otherwise imparts a rank and 

 unpleasant flavor to the flesh. 



There are periods, but not of long continuance, in which the Egrets, par- 

 ticularly the White, are seen several together, in our marshes. The numbar 

 may be twelve or twenty. They seem attracted by some prevalent living 

 food on these occasions ; ordinarily they feed singly, or at most in couples, in 

 the shaded spots of our rivers above the water shoal. There are collected 

 at the present time (January, 1864) at a sedgy pond near Spanish Town up- 

 wards of twenty, principally Garzetta candidissima, with a few of Herodias 

 «gretta, Florida cverulea and Demiegretta ludoviciana and nivea. 



110. Florida cjerulea. — The length of the Blue Gaulin or Florida Heron is 

 about 22 inches, expanse 36J, flexure 11, leg 4, bill 3 ; occipital feathers 

 lengthened, without a crest; prevailing color dark indigo blue, head and 

 neck with a purplish tinge ; dorsal plumes lengthened ; wing feathers grey- 

 ish beneath ; iris yellow, orbits light blue, bill leaden blue ; legs and feet 

 black. The young are white with spots of blae about the wings and body ; 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHrA. 63 



iris whitish, orbits and base of the bill yellowish, bill light blue, legs dull 

 yellowish, bill light blue, legs dull green. 



109. Garzetta candidissima. — I find the Snowy Heron of as frequent oe- 

 ourrence as the Red-Necked and Blue Gaulin, Color snowy white, with 

 occipital and dorsal plumes loosely fibred and much lengthened. Iris yellow- 

 ish, bill black, with the base and lower portion of the lower mandible and 

 space round the eye yellow; legs black, feet yellow; length 26 inches, ex- 

 panse 372^ flexure lOj^, leg 4, bill 3;^, middle toe 3. 



108. Garzetta nivea. — Mr. Gosse's Common Gaulin has been supposed to 

 be the immature " Florida c<jerulea," but I think, on careful examination and 

 comparison, it is quite distinct, — the color is always pure white, without 

 any blue feathers about the body or wings, or any distinct crest. The tips of 

 the first six wing quills only are edged on both webs with greyisli black. Iris 

 pale yellow ; orbits, cheeks and legs bluish green ; bill bluish black, with 

 the base and larger portion of the lower mandible yellow. Length 24 inches, 

 expause 39, flexure 10^, leg 4, bill 3^, tail 4J. 



111. Demiegrktta ludoviciana. — The Red-necked Egret, or Gaulin, is one 

 of the most common. The general color of the adult above is slatey blue, 

 the feathers tipped with reddish ; chin and a stripe down the throat and 

 other under parts tawney white ; breast and neck red, shaded into purplish. 

 Iris yellowish white ; space round the eye fulvous ; bill brownisli black, 

 lower mandible clayish yellow beneath ; legs yellowish green. Length 25.J 

 inches, expanse 37, flexure 10^, bill and leg 4 each. The white occipital and 

 colored dorsal plumes straight, fastigiate, the latter generally longer than 

 the tail. The immature bird has the upper plumage reddish, mixed with 

 blue. 



Dejiiegretta eufa. — The Reddish Egret or Gaulin is scarce, as I have only 

 seen two specimens ; it appears to be only an occasional visitor. 



Adult. — Qtiueral color greyish blue, paler beneath; head, neck and throat 

 reddish chestnut. Dorsal plumes with yellowish tips, straight, fastigiate, 

 and longer than the tail. Iris greyish white, space round the eye and bill 

 dull flesh-color ; the terminal half of the bill black, legs and feet blue, with 

 blackish scales ; claws blackish. Length 30 inches, expanse 43, flexure 12|, 

 leg 5^, bill 3^. 



11 G. Herodias eoretta. — The White Egret or Heron is the most common 

 of the larger species. The dimensions are, length 38 inches, expanse 55, or 

 more, flexure 16, tail 5, bill more than 5, and leg nearly 6 inches. Color 

 pure white ; no occipital crest. Dorsal plumes with stifiened shafts, longer 

 than the tail and pendant. Iris yellow ; bill yellowish to the point, dusky 

 above, legs and feet black. 



163. Ardea occipentalis. — The Great White Heron is rare in the island ; 

 it is readily distinguished from the preceding by the larger size, the length- 

 ened occipital feathers, and an absence of the dorsal plumes and some other 

 peculiarities. The color is also pure white. Iris yellow, orbits yellowish 

 green, bill yellow, greenish at the base ; legs yellow, with olive tinge in front, 

 olaws light brownish. Length 45 inches, expanse 68, or more, flexure nearly 

 20, leg nearly 9 inches, bill 5|. 



115. Ardea hbrodias. — The Great Blue Heron is more abundant in some 

 years than in others. The prevailing color is ashy blue, some feathers tinged 

 reddish ; crown feathers and scapulars elongated ; chin and under tail coverts 

 white ; edge of wing and a patch on shoulder rufous and white ; neck ashy 

 cinnamon brown ; color of throat white, streaked with black and reddish 

 brown ; plumes of the breast ashy and white ; belly streaked black and 



1861.] 




64 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



white ; sides black. Wing quills blackish ; thigh rufous ; tail bluish. Iris 

 yellowish, with hazel pupil ; bill with lower mandible yellow, dark flesh- 

 colored at the base ; upper mandible reddish horn, lighter on the edges ; 

 tongue whitish, mouth deep rosy flesh-colored ; leg, feet and claws black, 

 scales with whitish edges ; thighs, a short space from the knee, and a stripe 

 back and front black, the rest tawny ; palms dull clayish. 



The dimensions of the adult male are, length 46 inches, expanse 74, flex- 

 ure 19, bill 6i leg 7, thigh 9, middle toe 4|. 



This species is very variable, rarely agreeing exactly in the dimensions and 

 in the coloring of the head and belly. The female and young male generally 

 have the head black without the white center, and the breast and under tail 

 coverts greyish, streaked with white and blackish. The sack or stomach 

 of one shot at the river side near Spanish Town was filled with small river 

 shrimps and water snails, intermixed with small pieces of river grass ( Cera- 

 tophyllum demersum) evidently pulled up in taking the food ; and in the gullet 

 of another shot at Great Salt Pond was a mullet nearly eight inches in 

 length. 



275. Ae©ea Wubdemannii ?^-The White-crowned Heron is in the upper 

 plumage very like the preceding, but has the crown and occipital elongated fea- 

 thers white ; the under parts white, streaked with black ; the breast bluish 

 black, with bluish grey or ashy on the sides. Length nearly 50 inches, ex- 

 panse 75 or more, flexure 21, leg 8, middle toe about 13, thigh 9, bill 6^. 

 Greenish brown, yellowish beneath. 



The fishermen and gunners on the coast say this is the male of the preced- 

 ing species in summer plumage, but, from two specimens I have collected, I 

 think they are quite distinct. 



113. Ardetta exilis. — The Tortoise-shell Bittern is not uncommon among 

 the mangroves and along the banks of streams. It is generally found soli- 

 tary. Length 13^ inches, expanse 17 to 18, flexure 4^ to 5, bill and leg each 

 nearly 2. The prevailing colors of this Bittern are dark glossy green and 

 purplish cinnamon mixed with tawny. Iris and bill yellow, the latter darker 

 at the tips, legs tawny. The head and back of the female are chestnut in- 

 stead of green and cinnamon. The eggs are small. 



112. BuTORiDES viKESCENS. — The Crab Catcher is found as a solitary bird in 

 almost every locality in which there is water. The dimensions are, length 

 17 to 20 inches, expanse 25 to 28, flexure 7 to 8, leg and bill 2 to 2^. Head 

 with crest glossy green, upper parts of body green, wing coverts edged with 

 tawny brown ; neck and sides of throat chestnut ; chin white ; line down 

 the centre of throat white, intermixed with greenish and chestnut ; uader 

 parts and sides leaden ash. Iris yellow ; upper mandible black, lower man- 

 dible yellow, with black edge ; legs and feets dusky greenish yellow. The 

 mature male has two stripes on the side of the head towards the ear, with a 

 white stripe streaked with black between them. 



This species also builds on trees in the morasses and swamps, and ou river 

 banks overhanging the streams. The eggs are nearly as large as those of the 

 Gaulins. 



BuTOKiDEs BRUNNESCENS. — A Cuban species is supposed to be found here, 

 but I have not recognized it in any of my collections. From Gundlach's de- 

 scription this differs from the preceding in having the tip of the lower mandi- 

 ble greenish white ; skin of face olive black ; round the eye yellowish green ; 

 legs olive brown ; lesser wing coverts and small quills dark metallic green, 

 with rusty edges ; large quills without white ; lesser under coverts grey ; 

 Throat yellowish brown, dark grey at base ; foreneck blackish, with metallic 

 green lustre, rusty tips and pale yellowish lateral edges. It also wants the 

 white and black streaked line from the angle of the mouth towards the ear 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 65 



and the white on the throat and forepart of the neck, which are uniform with 

 the rest of the neck. 



117. BoTAURus LENTiaiNosrs. — This Bittern is occasionally met with about 

 the river banks, lagoons and swamps. Iris yellow ; feet grayish yellow ; bill 

 yellowish green, blackish at the points. Length 26 inches, expanse 40, flex- 

 ure 12. Prevailing color brownish yellow, mottled and shaded darker with 

 reddish and brown and cinnamon brown ; a black stripe on each side of the 

 neck ; chin and upper throat white, streaked with brown. I have not met 

 with the nest. 



114. Nyctiardea gaedeni. — The Night Heron or Quok is often met with 

 about the lagoons and swamps. Length 25 to 30 inches, expanse 40 to 45, 

 flexure 12 to 13, bill and leg a little more than 3 inches. Iris red, orbits 

 green ; bill black ; legs and feet yellow, claws brown ; head, crest, scapulars 

 and back glossy metallic green ; long feathers of occipital crest forehead and 

 under parts white, passing into pale slaty blue ; the wings and tail ashy blue. 

 The young differ in having the green of the upper parts replaced by dull 

 chocolate ; the coverts spotted white ; the neck and under parts streaked 

 with dusky ; the quills tinged with reddish chocolate, and tipped whitish. 



120. Nyctherodius violaceus. — The yellow-crowned Night Heron or Guinea- 

 hen Quok, is also of frequent occarrence. Dimensions rather less than the 

 preceding ; tlie bill thicker and shorter. Iris reddish ; bill dark or blackish 

 green ; legs greenish yellow above, greenish black below ; the prevailing color 

 greyish leaden blue, lighter below ; top of the head and occipital feathers 

 yellowish white, surrounded with bluish black ; quills and tail dull lead co- 

 lor ; the young has the upper parts greenish olive, with central streaks and 

 terminal spots of brownish yellow ; the under parts whitish, with yellowish 

 brown streaks. The night Herons build lower than the other species of Arde- 

 idoe. The eggs of the two species are alike, rounded at both ends. 



TANTALIDJE. 



121. Ibis alba, the White Curlew. Ibis , the Black Curlew. — The haunts 



of these two (?) species of Ibis appear to be almost confined to the morass 

 borders of the islets off Salt Island and Bushy Park Lands, formed by the 

 growth of mangroves, and intersected by natural channels flowing between ; 

 the Curlews breed, and are to be found there at all seasons, only visiting the 

 mainland in August and sometimes in September. The first species is pure 

 white, with the first five wing quills tipped with greenish black. The 

 other is also white, with the head, neck, wings, und tail of a glossy greenish 

 black. The flesh is equal to that of the wild goose.* 



119. Ibis rubra. — The red Curlew is a rare visitor on the south midland 

 coast ; but has been more frequently seen at the western end of the island. I 

 have never met with it. 



118. Platalea ajaja. — The roseate Spoonbill is of very rare occurrence. I 

 have only seen portions of oae, shot by Mr. Maxwell in Saint Elizabeth, many 

 years ago. f 



143. Ph^nicoptbrus rpber. — The red Flamingo was formerly a frequent 

 visitor at the west end of the island, but rarely seen on the south midland or 

 eastern coast. % 



*(N0TB by Mr. Bichard Hill.) It has not been mentioned by naturalists that the Curlew has 

 the power of inflexing the upper bill, so as to run it along the groove of the lower inaudible, and 

 clean out whatever may be adhering there. 



■{■(Note by Mr. Hill.) Occasionally specimens have been procured from the Salinas of Old Har- 

 bour. Twice, specimens have been brought me, but so badly skinned as to be worthless for the 

 cabinet. The color was of a delicate ectually tinted rosy red. 



J (Note by Mr. Hill.) In 1841 a fine rose-tinted bird was shot at Passage Fort. The bird wag 

 forwarded by Mr. Kirkpatrick, but never came to h:ind. Some of the feather* were separately 

 sent and received 



1864.] 6 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Many species of Plovers and Snipes are regular annual visitors ; they come 

 in considerable numbers with the autumnal rains, in the early part of Octo- 

 ber, (some are rather earlier in their advent,) and depart, many, before the 

 end of ihe year ; whilst others remain until February, or later in the succeed- 

 ing year. On the arrival of the migratory flocks in autumn, they range all 

 over the island where water is to be found. Some species are found during 

 the entire year, the number depending apparently on the signs of the coming 

 seasons ; during the dry summer of 1863 they were more abundant than in 

 1861 or 1862 ; some of the summer residents breed in the high lands, but the 

 greater number of them are found on the plains and near the coast. 



CHARADRIIDJS. 



.fficiAtiTES MELonrs. — The Piping Plover is, according to Gosse, an annual 

 visitor, but I have not met it in any of my collections. Mr. Gosse may pos- 

 sibly have mistaken the following species for it. 



103, 260 JEoiALiTEs WiLSONius. — The Thick-billed Plover ia easily recog- 

 nised by the bill; it is one of tlie permanent residents, and, I think, is more 

 numerous during the summer than any of the other species of Aegialites ; the 

 migrants generally arrive in Septt mber, and depart in the early part of the 

 following year, leaving, however, numbers widely distributed inland, as well 

 as on the copst. It lays on the bare sand like the Chordeiles, son^etimes, but 

 not often, near the cover of some low shrub. I have not met with more than 

 three eggs in a nest ; they aie in form like the Quails, stone color, splashed 

 all over with small spots of bistre and vandyke brown, and measuring l| by 1^. 

 Several species of Aegialites are said to breed in Saint Elizabeth and West- 

 moreland. A. vociferus and tentdrostris may be among them. 



102, 256, iEciALiTES SEMiPALMATUs. — The Ring Plover is also a summer 

 resident, but is not so numerous as the last species. I have collected speci- 

 mens through the spring and summer months, but I have never met with the 

 eggs, thdugh they must certainly breed here, as one of my sons took from 

 one spot in July last, at Great Salt Pond, a broken egg perfectly shelled ; it 

 was dark grey apparently without, or with only minute dots. 



The other Plovers, visiting the island in autumn and winter, are — 



105, 204. Chakadrics viroinicps. — The Golden Plover. 



99. iEaiALiTES VOCIFERUS. — The Kildeer Plover. 



103, 203. SQDATAKOiiA nELVBTtcA. — The Squatting Plover. 



182. LiMosA ? — The Ilorse-eyed Plover. 



I have not met with any of these during the summer in the south midland 

 district ; the three first are constant annual visitors ; the last ia only obtained 

 ocoaaionally. 



ByEMATOPODID^. 



107, 257. Strepsii/As ikterpres. — The Turnstone is the most abundant of 

 the Grallae found hero at all season*, and I have met with their epgs more 

 frequently than those of any other species — at the seaside— on Ihe plains — in 

 the mountains. I have found eggs at Ilealthshire. Great Salt Pond, Passage 

 Fort, and in St. .John, St. Thomas in the "Vale, and on the bank of the Rio 

 Grande, near Millbank in Portland. The eggs are deposited on a few dried 

 leaves under low growing shrubs, (on the coast j;enerally under the Surianna 

 Maritima ;) they are yellowisli, or olive green, coarsely marked and streaked 

 with dark and light brown, and slatey grey spots intermixed. 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



# 



RECUR VIROSTRIDyE. 



141. HiMANTOPus NiQRicoLLis — I have found the Stilt Plover about the 

 Salinas along the coast from Port Royal to Old Harbour, durins; the entire 

 year; they are often seen about the flashes made by the inroad of the Rio 

 Cobre at Passage Fort and the Salt Pans, and Salina at Hanson's or Great Salt 

 Pond, (and I make no doubt they breed throughout the island.) The eggs 

 are generally found in a tussock of prass ; from recollection they are stone 

 color, splashed all over with, Vandyke brown and pale bistre spots. 



REcnRviROSTBA AMERICANA. — The American Avoset has been identified by 

 Mr. Hill ; it mnst be a rare visitor, as I have never met with. it. 



SCOLOPACIDJE. 



242, 255. AcTODROMAS minutilla. — The little Sand-pipers are found at all 

 seasons, though most abundant in the late autumn and early winter months ; 

 they are not, however, uncommon during the spring and summer. They 

 breed on the Salinas and sandy beach, laying three or four eggs on the 

 bare sand ; these are yellowish, splashed with reddish brown and greyish 

 spots principally about the large end. I have had eggs from Great Salt Poncl 

 and Passage Fort. 



129, 131. Calidris arenaria. — The Sanderling is a regular annual visitov. 

 I have a pair shot at Great Salt Pond on the 20th August, 1863. 



205, 254. MiCROPALAMA HiMANTOPUs. — The Stilt Sandpiper is not uncommon 

 during the sprincr and summer. I have not met with the egg, though I am 

 sure it must breed here, as I have specimens of birds collected in April, June 

 and August of 1863. 



130. Symphemia semipalmata. — The Willet, known here as the Spanish 

 Plover, is not uncommon in some years during and after the autumnal rains. 

 I have never seen it in summer, though it is said to breed in Saint Elizabeth. 



124. Rhyacophilds solitarius — The Solitary or Pond Snipe is never seen in 

 company — a single bird or pair only is found usually about the cattle ponds. 

 The e.'gs are laid on the bare ground. I have taken several nests, but have 

 no certain recollection of the eggs. "* 



123. Tringa CANCTus. — The Knit or White-bellied Snipe is also found in 

 solitary loneliness on river banks, or marshy borders of ponds or fresh water 

 streams, at all seasons of the year, but I have not yet met with the eggs. 



127. Gallinago wilsoni. — The Jack Snipe is common from the end of Sep- 

 tember till December, and thence till April becomes almost solitary; in the 

 latter months at early dawn, after a moonlight night, a single specimen is 

 sometimes found, on the dry pastures of salt ponds, mistaking, no doubt, for 

 water the glittering appearance caused by the moonlight on patches of 

 parched, low grass. In some years they are abundant, in others scarce ; for 

 the last two or three years, 1861, 1862, 1863, they have been the latter in 

 the south midland plains, but have been abundant in the highlands. When 

 they first arrive they lie in considerable numbers along the borders of ponds, 

 or margins of marshy lands, in e^ery part of the island. Many years ago> 

 early in October, in company with the late Captain St. John, th^n Island En- 

 gineer, we shot more than seventy brace in three days over a small Guinea 

 cornfield of about six acres ; the land had been previously burnt off, and the 

 corn was then only a few inches high; the water from the then recent heavy 

 Tains lying in the intervals and iu puddles about the field, which adjoined 

 woodland on two sides. 



AcTiTuaaJ babth.vmi us ?— The Short billed Snipa is an occasional visitor. I 

 1864.] 




6» PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



have a specimen shot in October, 1863, from the ridge of a honse top at 

 Reed's Pen ; — the dimensions are, length 12 inches, expanse nearly 24, flex- 

 ure 6J ; tail, graduated, 3J ; bill 1^ ; thigh 2^ ; leg not quite 2 ; middle toe 

 with claws ^ of an inch, hind toe small. Bill dark brown, lower mandible 

 yellow, except at the point ; legs greenish yellow ; upper plumage dark 

 brown, feathers edged with tawny, lower part of the back and rump without 

 the edging ; central tail feathers same as the upper plumage ; side feathers 

 tawny, with blackish transverse bars, and irregular subterminal blotches ; 

 chin and stripe over the eye white ; throat with blackish marblings, under 

 parts yellowish white, clearer on the belly ; breast and sides with transverse 

 bars of brownish black ; wing quills blackish brown, banded on the inner webs 

 with dull white ; shaft of the first quill white, under wing coverts white, 

 with narrow bands of brownish black. 



Mr. Qosse gives Tringoides macularius as found on the island. 



126. Gambbtta MEtANOLEucA. — The Tell-tale. 

 125. " PLAViPES. — The Yellow-shanks. 



122, 123. Ekkunetes petripicatus. {E. pusillus.) — The Sandpiper. — These 

 three Snipes are also annual visitors, arriving in considerable numbers in the 

 autumn, but I have not met with any during the summer. 



120. NoMEHiDS LONGiRosTEis. — The brown Curlew is often found in pairs 

 among the mangrove swamps on the coast during the entire year, but more 

 frequently on the small sandy kays to the west of Healthshire and near Old 

 Harbour, where is also the common haunts of the two species of the Ibis. 

 They breed in the reeds, rushes and tall marsh grass on the borders of the 

 creeks and swamps ; the eggs are four, larger at one end and obtusely pointed 

 at the other, measuring 2 yg by Ijg ; they are greenish or olive green, with 

 blotches and splashes of dark umber and greenish brown.* 



There ia another bird found in the mountains, which I take to be a Curlew ; 

 it is much smaller than the preceding, and has a short bill ; the upper plu- 

 mage is also darker, and the under parts rusty white. It is prevalent in 

 the north eastern parishes, about the mountain streams. (Perhaps N. bore- 

 alis. ) 



In November, 1826, I had a specimen of a Woodcock, shot on the race- 

 course near Spanish Town, but I have not since met with it. It was supposed 

 to be PhUoheta minor. I have only a slight recollection, and the following 

 note of it : — Length not quite 12 inches ; wing rounded ; bill straight, enlarged 

 at the end ; general color pale rufous, shaded ashy and darker rufous. 



RALLIDuE. 



The Coot, in common with the two Qallinules, is found abundant in the 

 lagoons, marshes and ponds in all parts of the island, highlands as well as 

 lowlands ; particularly where there is a thick growth of reeds, rushes and 

 water plants to aflbrd them cover. The nidification of the three is very simi- 

 lar ; a platform of sticks, filled in and lined with decaying leaves, rushes, 

 water grass [ccratophyllum) and other water weeds, constructed in the tall 

 reeds and vegetable growth on the margin of the water. In the lagoons the 

 platform is often built on the interwoven roots of the black mangrove, and 

 composed principally of the decaying pods of the same tree ; they breed twice 

 and probably oftener in the year, commencing in March ; the eggs of all vary 

 considerably in size, but are pretty regular in form and measure, from 2 to 

 2|, by 1§ to If of an inch. (The flesh of all makes excellent game soup, if di- 

 vested of the skin, which, when left on, gives the dish a rank or fishy flavor). 



* (By Mr. IliU.) I am not sure vrbetlier the brown Curlev ia not the bird that inflexes the upper 

 bill, NvmeniM, and not Ibi». 



[Maroh 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP rHILADELPHTA W 



140. FuLiCA AMERICANA. — The Ivory-billed Coot lays from six to eight or 

 more eggs, oval, pointed at one end, greyish stone color, splashed all over 

 with small bistre brown spots and dots ; the ground color, when first laid, is 

 very pale, but becomes darker by contact with the damp nest. 



139. Gallinula galeata. — The Scarlet-fronted or Florida Gallinule lays 

 five to eight eggs, at first clayish white, splashed sparsely with small spots of 

 sepia brown. By contact with the damp nest, the ground color of these eggs 

 often changes to difi'erent shades of drab. I have now, February, 1864, un- 

 fledged young of this species in a pond near Spanish Town. 



210. Gallinula maktinica.— The Purple Gallinule, Sultana or Plantain 

 Coot, lays six to eight eggs, which are of a pale burnt sienna or yellowish 

 drab, splashed all over with small spots and dots of burnt umbre. * 



138. The Carpenter Coot is supposed to be the immature Plantain Coot ; 

 but I am inclined to think that, on a more careful observation, it will be found 

 distinct ; the nestlings, so far as I have been able to examine them, are quite 

 diflFerent. 



133. Eallcs eleoans. — The Mangrove, or Marsh Hen, is very common in 

 its usual haunt in the mangrove swamps. It is considered the highest game- 

 flavored bird in the island, and makes excellent game soup ; it builds a plat- 

 form of sticks, lined with softer materials, on low mangrove trees, sometimes 

 just on the surface of the water. I have never found more than two eggs in 

 any nest, but they are said to lay seven or eight ; the eggs are clear white, 

 measuring 1 J by 13-16ths. f 



Rallus ? vioTjAceus. — I have often seen this species in the ferry lagoon, but 

 never succeeded in procuring a specimen. The habits appear to be very simi- 

 lar to those of the preceding. In February, 1863, Mr. Colchester obtained 

 one, a female, from the same locality. The dimensions and description given 

 by the collector are, length 11^ inches, expanse 15| ; bill 1| ; middle toe 1 yg' 

 The general plumage olive black, with olive brown wing coverts and 

 spotted all over with white ; iris red ; bill pea green, orange at the base ; 

 legs rosy pink ; gizzard muscular, and conta,ined water snails with their 

 shells. 



134. RALLtrs coNCOLOR. — I have never found the Red Rail or Water Part- 

 ridge in the salt swamps, but always near fresh water at the foot of the hills, 

 or more commonly at the sedgy mountain ponds and streams. The eggs are 

 white, and rather smaller than those of the Mangrove Hen. 



135. PoEZANA CAROiiNA. — The common Rail is very variable in plumage ; 

 it is found at all seasons and in all waters, fresh or salt. I have never met 

 with the eggs of this or either of the two next species. 



137. PoKZANA Jamaicensis. — The Jamaica, or Little Black Rail, is also of fre- 

 quent occurrence about marshy lands, and on the savannahs and open pas- 

 tures in the vicinity of water. Theory of this species is chi chi-uro-croo-eroo 

 several times repeated in sharp, high-toned notes, and heard at a considerable 

 distance. 



136. Porzana minuta. — This little Rail is not uncommon in the savannahs 

 and open pastures, and it has the same habits as the P. Jamaicensis ; but I 

 have never heard it cry. The two last build in savannahs and open pastures, 

 forming a chamber in a tussock of grass, with galleries on opposite sides. 



* (By Mr. Hill.) The brillianpy of the phimage varies with the year, the more or less prevs- 

 lence of the iridescent bronze, with the cerulean and purple, being the variation. 



tThis can hardly be the Rallus eUgans of American authors, the eggs being entu'cly different, — 

 8. F. Baird. 



1864.] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OJ? THE ACADEMY OF 



COLYilBID^. 



184, PoDiLYMBus PODicEPS.— The Black Gorget Grebe is often met with on 

 Rio Cohre in its entire course, and is sometimes, though rarely, seen on the 

 Cattle Fonds in the lowlands ; it, however, abounds in the highland lakes, 

 ponds and sedgy portions of mountain streams. 



I have not had the same opportunities of observing the habits of this species 

 as I have had with the common Diver ; but their general habits and nidifica- 

 tion appear to be much alike. The nest of both species is a floating platform 

 or mass of stii ks, leaves and water weeds 15 to 20 inches wide, and the same 

 in height, flattened at the top, with a slight depression in the middle, on 

 which three or four oval eggs are deposited. These are chalky white, with a 

 glaucous tinge beneath, though usually discolored by the damp materials of 

 the nest. The dimensions are If by If. 



185. PoDiCEPS DOMiNicus. — The Diver frequents the ponds on the Cattle 

 Pens, in all parts of the island. The nest is similar in construction and ma- 

 terials, but rather smaller than that of the Grebe. The eggs are usually four, 

 oval, or oval-elongated, and measure Ig to If by rather less than itn inch. 

 This species breeds from April to December, rearing several broods. Soon 

 after they are hatched, the young leav^ the nest and are carried about the 

 pond under the wings of the parent birds, where they are securely held in 

 swimming and diving. I once shot an old bird passing on the wing from one 

 pond to another, and found a young bird with it, which must have been 

 carried on its back. The same nest is used during the season, with slight ad- 

 ditions after each brood ; and is always pulled to pieces by the old birds when 

 they have done with it. 



ANATJDJi. 



Akser htpekboreus and Bbenicla canadensis are occasional visitors in con- 

 nection with a severe winter on the continent. 



144. Dekdkocygna abboeea. — The "Whistling Duck is a permanent resi- 

 dent, breedir.g in the lagoons and morasses on mangroue stools and in clumps 

 of reeds and rushes, laying ^en or twelve eggs. It is easily domesticated, 

 but it is nect'ssary to take ofl" the first pinion of one wing to prevent it join- 

 ing the passing wild flocks. They breed more than once during the year, as 

 numbers of them are taken before they become fully fledged, and brought 

 into the towns for sale from May to December. In 18?4 and 1835, at a pen 

 on the St. John's Road, where there is a large pond, some Whistling Ducks 

 were kept among the domestic poultry ; they frequently brought into the 

 poultry yard, in the early dawn, small parties of the Wild Duck, which ac- 

 companied the tame ones without any shyness or alarm into the poultry 

 house, and were thus secured. They feed by night as well as by day. Their 

 whistling cry is often heard passing over head at night. I have fn quently, 

 on moonlight nights in January and Febmary, shot them in numbers, 

 whilst feeding in the guinea cornfields. 



I have had the eggs from Passage Fort, but I find no note of them, and my 

 recollection of them is too uncertain to venture upon their description. 



145. DENnEOCTONA adtumnalis. — I have been told that the Red-legged 

 Whistling Duck is sometimes met with in some of the eastern parishes, but 

 I have never met with any others than those imported into Kingston from the 

 Spanish Main ; and I have not seen any of these for several years. 



146. Anas maxima. — The Green-back Mallard, whether a hybrid or a va- 

 riety of A. toscha/!, is apparently a permanent resident in the island, almost 

 restricted to the deep recesses of the morasses and lagoons at the west end of 

 the island. I have never seen a epecimtu of this duck, but there have been 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 71. 



geveral well authenticated specimens of it, besides Gosse's and those referred to 

 by Robinsrtn, obtained, however, from the saraw vicinage.* lu the summer of 

 1863, a nest of eleven eggs, taken from a platform of rushes floating in the 

 large lake at Rio Hio near Walton, in the Moneague District of St. Ann's, 

 were brought to the Rev. Mr. Mxis, master of Walton School. These eggs 

 »re snpposed to belong to the Mallard ; th -y are oily white, and measure 2| 

 by IJ of an inch. , 



Many years ago I saw some eggs supposed to be one of the large migratory 

 daoks ; they were taken from the lake near Dry Harbor ; they were yellowish 

 oily green, very like some eggs of the English Duck, bnt I could not obtain 

 any information respecting them ; they may have belonged to the Shoveller,! 

 which I was told had been found in those waters durin<? the same summer ; 

 or, possibly, an English Duck from Dry Harbor, or one of the neighboring 

 pens. 



148. Qterquedula inornata. — The plain Blue-winged Teal is also a per- 

 manent inhabitant of Jamaica, breeding in the interior lagoons and morasses. 

 It is, I think, quite distinct from Q. discors. During the months of May and 

 Jane individuals are sometimes shot at the Cattle Ponds in the lowlands, but 

 they come down in September in flocks of considerable numbers, and are 

 common a month or more before the arrival of the Lunate Teal ; and in no 

 instance have I ever seen or heard of a spjoiman with the white crescent 

 having been found here in the summar, or previous to the month of Novem- 

 ber. The eggs are bluish chalky white. 



147. QcrERQUED0iiA DiscoKS. — I havo never seen the Lunate Blue-wing 

 earlier than the month of November ; the usual period of their arrival is 

 towards the end of the month, and they again appear in March and April on 

 their return to the continent, when they are usually in full summer livery. 



The other species of Anatidse which are constant in their annual visits to 

 the island are — 



159, 158. Spatdla cltpeata. — The Shoveller — always in considerable num- 

 bers. 



155. Mareca AMERICANA.— The American Widgeon — in all its forms and 

 variety of plumage. 



164, 165. FcLix AFFiNis. — The little Black-head also comes in considerable 

 numbers and varied forms. 



153. Dafila ACUTA. — The Pintail, in numbers and in varied plumage. 



The occasional vistors are — 



P^cilonetta Bahamensis. — Ilathera Duck (rare.) 



•(NOTB by Mr. Richard Hill.) — In tha October seasm of 1846 there had been wild, stormy rains. 

 The winds hal bl )wn from the west with that broad, steady force which renders our tempests In 

 the latter season as fierce as hurricanes, though not i-otatory storms ; prodigious numbers of ddcks 

 were blown Lxjfore the winds from the continent to the islands. — that is. from the Mexican Gulf to 

 tne'Carribean Soa. The birds arrived at the west en J of Jamaica so exhausted and beatea by the 

 rain that in attempting to alight they fell, and many were picked up in the streets of Montego 

 Bay. Am )ng several ducks that reached our gar.ien just out of the town, was what seemed a 

 Mallarl of extra >r.linary size. In bulk of b.idy it appaanid as large as a Muscovy Duck, (Cdirina 

 moschata,) but its shape was essentially a MallaM, (Anas boschas.) It was taken up helpless 

 from fatigue. Teal had been taken up at the same time in the same state of exhaustion. My 

 aister, Mrs. Cleraetson, caged the extraordinary duck, and had it for two seasons. It was a 

 female. J saw it in the fpring of 1847, and directei that it should be shipped to Lonilon for the 

 Zoological Society. Before it culd be dispatched, it died in full plumasre, and full flesh. It had 

 laid infertile eggs in the previous spring, an I was a.;ain laying int'ertilo eggs, the sexual instinct 

 beint; intensely strong; and something like uterine inflammation, if we may so speak, had super- 

 vened, and the bird peri-^hed in the act of eggdaying. The duck exactly resembled in plumage 

 Mr. Gosse's Anas maxima,. 



t Scarcely the Shoveller — eggs of which are creaiiy white. — S. F. B. 



1864.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OV 



A IX spoNSA. — The Summer Duck (very rare.) 



157. Nettion Cakolinensis. — The Green Wing Teal ; sometimes in autumn, 

 but generally in the spring. 



156. Chaplelasmus stkepekps. — The Gadwall; sometimes abundant, but 

 not annual. 



Anas obscura. — The Dusky Duck (rare.) 



263. Anas boschas. — The Mallard (rare.) 



CEdemia perspicillata. — Surf Duck (very rare.) 



161. Aythya AMERICANA. — The Pochard (not uncommon.) 



FuLix coLLARis. — The Tufted Duck (rare.) 



Nyroca leucopthalma. — White-eyed Duck (very rare.) 



160. Aythya valisneria. — The Canvass Back is sometimes found in com- 

 pany with the Pintail. 



The Muscovy is the species commonly kept in poultry yard?, and in some 

 localities the English Duck is also kept. The two are often crossed. The 

 mongrels are held in higher estimation, as the young have the advantage of 

 arriving at maturity much earlier than those of either parent, and are con- 

 sidered of superior flavor to either, particularly when raised on the duck ant 

 and guinea corn. 



Note by Mr. Hill. — The habitat of the Muscovy Duck is the Lake of Nica- 

 ragua. There all travellers see them at all times, either in small breeding 

 coteries or large flocks. In the wild state their plumage is dark without any 

 admixture of white. They were originally procured from the Mosquito shore, 

 the country of the Muysca Indians, (see Humboldt's researches,) and hence 

 is derived the name of Musco Duck, corrupted into Muscovy Duck. The 

 West Indian Islanders had early naturalized them, for, on the discovery of 

 Columbus, they speak of " ducks as large as geese," that they found among 

 the Indians. 



A critical Eeview of the Family PEGCELLARID^: Part I., embracing the 

 PEOCELLARIEJE, or Stormy Petrels. 



(Based principally on specimens in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution.) 



BY ELLIOTT COUES, M. D. 



Having occasion to publish descriptions of several new species of Pro- 

 cellaridaB, which I find in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution, the 

 present seems a fitting opportunity to embody in a review of the family the 

 results arrived at in an investigation in which I have been for some time 

 engaged. The present paper is the first of a series in which will be con- 

 sidered the entire family. It embraces the section Procellarieae, an interest- 

 ing and somewhat extensive group of which the common " Mother Carey's 

 Chicken" — Procellaria pelaffica — may be considered as typical. I have at- 

 tempted to elucidate the specific characters of the components of the group, 

 as well as their most natural generic disposition ; and to discuss fairly such 

 questions of synonymy as may arise. It will be perceived that in my generic 

 arrangement, I have closely followed Prince C. L. Bonaparte, whose ideas of a 

 genus, as set forth in his later writings, agree most nearly with my own. I have 

 derived most assistance, as regards specific characters, from the very valuable 

 monograph recently published by Dr. H. Schlcgcl, though of course it is 

 quite impossible for me to agree with him on any points of systematic 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



n 



arrangement and nomenclature. A comparison of the respective mono- 

 graphs on this subject, by the two distinguished authors just mentioned, 

 afifords a striking illustration of the widely diverse results which may be 

 arrived at on any investigation, when two co-workers entertain radically 

 opposite views concerning generic or specific relations. The endeavor to 

 harmonize such conflicting opinions is a matter of no little difficulty ; but 

 as the truth probably lies somewhere between the two, it is perhaps worth 

 while to make the attempt. With every facility in the way of books and 

 specimens which the Philadelphia Academy and the Smithsonian Institution 

 afford, I may perhaps have been so fortunate as to have fixed the quite 

 numerous species with some degree of precision, and to have settled some 

 points of synonymy. Concerning the genera adopted, each one must judge 

 of their agreement with nature, or the reverse", according to his own opinion 

 upon the question of what constitutes a generic group. 



The family Procellaridae is naturally divisible into three subfamilies : — the 

 Diomedeina?, the Procellarinae, and the Halodromina;. These are readily 

 charactcrizable, aside from any consideration of other features, by the posi- 

 tion and shape of the nasal tubes. In the Diomedeinse these tubes are 

 entirely disconnected, and placed one on each side of the bill. In the Pro- 

 cellarinae they are united, situated at the base ef the culmen, and open more 

 or less horizontally forwards. In the Halodrominse their position is as in 

 the Procellarinae, but their apertures are directed vertically upwards. 



The subfamily Procellarinae is composed of several groups, or assemblages 

 of genera and species, which constitute the "sections" of Prince Bonaparte's 

 arrangements. These divisions are the Fulmarese, the Daptioneae, the Prio- 

 neae, the Puffineae, and the Procellarieae. The genera composing each of 

 these are more intimately allied to each other than they are to the genera of 

 any other section : and we have consequently an exceedingly convenient and 

 perhaps not unnatural means of dividing the very extensive subfamily into 

 readily characterizable lesser groups. That section which forms the subject 

 of the present article — the Procellaricas — is the largest and at the same time 

 the most marked of these groups. It may readily be distinguished from the 

 other groups by the following peculiarities : 



Section PROCELLARIE^. 



The species are all uniformly of small size, there being found in this 

 section the very smallest of natatores, and none of the species exceeding 

 eight or nine inches in total length. In form, most of the genera are delicate 

 and graceful, none being as robust as is usual in most of the genera of other 

 sections. The colors of the group vary exceedingly. A large proportion of 

 the species are fuliginous black, varied more or less with white; but in some 

 genera there is seen some variety in the pattern of coloration. Bright 

 colors, however, are never found. The bill is of moderate or very small 

 size, always shorter than the head or tarsus, rather wide at the base, its sides 

 rapidly converging towards an attenuated compressed decurved tip. The 

 nasal tubes are long, elevated, and conspicuous ; subcylindrical in shape, 

 inclined forwards and somewhat obliquely upwards ; the septum between the 

 nares thin, delicate, and quite perpendicular; the nasal aperture circular; 

 » the tubes in length always at least nearly half as long as the culmen. The 

 wings are long; the first primary, contrary to the general rule in this family, 

 always shorter than the second, sometimes only as long as the fourth. The 

 second primary is always longest, the third intermediate between the fourth 

 and second. The primaries are acutely pointed, a little falcate, and strong, 

 though very flexible and elastic. The tail is very long, but is exceedingly 

 variable in shape, being even, forked, emarginate, rounded, or cuneate. The 

 legs are oxul ..it.gly slender, delicate, compressed usually, much elongated. 



1864.] 




74 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



The tibiae are denuded for some portion of their length. The tarsal scutel- 

 lae are usually distinct, though fused in one genus. The toes are very long 

 and slender, the outer nearly'or quite as long as the middle, the inner con- 

 siderably shorter. The hallux is exceedingly minute, almost rudimental in 

 character, having a short, straight, acute claw. The interdigital membranes 

 are rather narrovf, but extend quite to the claws. 



In examining collectively the species of the section thus characterized, we 

 find that thej' arrange themselves very naturally into two very trenchantly 

 defined groups. In the first of these, the legs are short ; the tibiae almost 

 wholly feathered ; the tarsus scarcely longer than the middle toe ; the claws 

 small, compressed and acute ; th^ colors uniformly dark, or only relieved by 

 white on the rump and crissum. In the second of these groups, the species 

 all stand high, the legs being uhusually elongated ; the tibiae are naked for an 

 inch or more ; the tarsi are very much longer than the middle toe and claw; 

 the claws are all broad, depressed, obtuse, rounded. The tail is rounded or 

 forked ; never cuneate. 



^. The first of these groups is composed of four genera: — Oceanodroma 

 (type Proc. furcata, Gm.), comprehending two species ; Cymochorea, Mihi, 

 equal to Thalassidroma of authors, containing some four or five species : Ilalo- 

 cyptena, Mihi, a hitherto unknown genus, with a single species ; and Procel- 

 laria of Linnseus (as restricted by Bonaparte), whose type is the P. pelagica, 

 and which comprised several species closely allied to the la'St named. 



§§. The second group is represented by three genera: — Oceanites oi Kqjsqt- 

 ling and Blasius, with Thai. WiUoni of Bonaparte as type, and comprising 

 besides its type three other species ; Fregetla, Bonaparte, comprising some 

 four species congeneric with tropica of Gould, and Pelagodroma, whose type 

 and single species is the Procellaria fregaia of Linnseus. 



I shall review these genera and their respective species in the order in 

 which they are mentioned above, discussing the various questions concerning 

 which there exists doubt or confusion, and then present a synopsis of the 

 whole subject, in accordance with the results which may be by this means 

 arrived at. 



I I. OCEANODROMA, Reichenbach. 



This genus was founded by Prof. Reichenbach upon the old Procellaria 

 furcata of Gmelin. Its distinctive characters lie in its small, much com- 

 pressed, rather weak bill ; in its comparatively very short wings, of which 

 the first primary is unusually abbreviated, (being intermediate between the 

 fourth and fifth), while the third is fully as long as the second; in its very 

 long, deeply-forked tail, with its broad central and attenuated exterior 

 rectrices. In the proportions of the naked space of the tibiae, and of the 

 tarsus and toes it does not differ from several other genera of the section. 

 The middle toe with the claw is about as long as the tarsus. The colors are 

 peculiar, and onlj' found in this genus. 



Two species of the genus are knowm to exist ; both inhabiting the North 

 Pacific Ocean. 



1. OOBANODBOMA FDROATA, Bp. eX GmCl. 



This long and well known species has quite a profusion of names, generic 

 as well as specific. First indicated by Gmelin, Syst. Nat. i. p. 561, in 1788, 

 under the name of Procellaria furcata, it was renamed Procellaria orientalis by 

 Pallas, Zoog. Rosso — As. ii. p. 315 (1811), and afterwards called Thalassi- 

 droma cinerea by Gould. It is the Thalassidroma orientalis of Gray, Genera 

 of Birds, iii. 1849, pi. 178; the Oceanodroma orientalis of Reichenbach, Syst. 

 Av. xviii. fig. 2445 ; and the Oceandromi furcata of Bonaparte, Conspectus 

 Avium, ii., 1856, p. 194; which latter is, I believe, its proper desigation. 



The characters of the species are too ^yzU known to require notice in this 

 connection, 



/ [March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



2. OcEANODROMA HoRNBYi, Bp. ex Gray. 



This, the second species of the genus, was first introduced by G. R. Gray, 

 in the proceedings of the Zoological Society for* 1853, p. 62, under the name 

 of Thalassidroma Jlornbyi. Judging from Mr. Gray's descriptions — for I am 

 autoptically unacquainted with the species — it is entirely congeneric with 

 the O. furcuta, though differing greatly from it in colors. This generic dis- 

 position has been made by Bonaparte, on page 195 of the second volume of 

 his Conspectus. It appears as yet to be an exceedingly rare bird in col- 

 lections : none are contained in the Philadelphia Academy or Smithsonian 

 Institution, or, in fact, so far as I am aware, in any American collection. It 

 has the front, cheeks, throat, collar round the neck, breast, and abdomen pure 

 white ; crown, hind head, a broad band in front of neck, bend of wing and 

 lesser wing coverts sooty gray; upper part of back gray ; lower part of back 

 and tail ashy gray ; greater wing coverts brownish gray ; tertiaries and quills 

 deep black. 



"Length 8.25 inches, tail 3.75, tarsus 1.00, middle toe about the same. Bill 

 along culmen 8| lines, along rectus lOj lines." 



^ II. CYMOCHORBA, Coues. 



This, the second genus of the short-legged acute-clawed group of 

 Procellarieai is most nearly allied to Oceanodroma, having like it a long 

 deeply-forked tail. It is the genus of which the well known Leach's Petrel 

 is typical ; and one to which Melania, Bonaparte, and a new species, about to 

 be described, also belong. With the forked tail and short legs of Oceanodroma, 

 it is distinguished from that genus by its comparatively very much longer 

 wings ; by its larger, longer, much more robust bill, with shorter and 

 straighter nasal tubules ; by its radically different pattern of coloration, &c. 



The name '' Thalassidroma" is the one under which this genus is generally 

 presented. Founded by Vigors in 1825, upon the Procellaria pelagica, Lin- 

 naeus, the name has been employed by ornithologists, in a most unaccount- 

 ably loose and vague way, to designate any and all the species of Procellarieae, 

 without the slightest regard to their natural generic affinities. In 1856, 

 Bonaparte first restricted Thalassidroma to a single genus, that one of which 

 Leachii, Temminck, is the type. But if used at all, it must be, of course, for 

 that genus of birds upon which it was founded, viz., the one of which. 

 pelagica is the type; for it is contrary to all rule to use a synonym of one 

 genus as the tenable name of another. As will be demonstrated further on, 

 *' Thalassidroma, Vigors," is a complete synonym of Procellaria proper of Lin- 

 naeus, as is also Ily trolales of Boie, both biding based upon the P. pelagica, 

 Linnaeus. This being the case, it is evident that the present well known 

 genus has yet to receive a tenable distinctive appellation. 



In supplying a name, I take Leachii, Temm., or rather leucorrhoa, Vieill., as 

 my type; and in the following diagnosis so define the genus as to exclude all 

 forms not entirely congeneric with it, 



Cymochorea,* Gonas. {^Thalassidroma, Bp. nee Vigors. Type Procellaria leu- 

 corr/ioa, Vieill.) Bill much shorter than>Lhe head, about two-thirds the tarsus, or 

 middle toe with the claw, rather stout, as high or higher than broad at the 

 base, the unguis strong, much decurved ; the nasal tubes less than half as long 

 as the culmen. Wings moderately long, not much surpassing the tail when 

 folded ; first primary longer than the fourth, second longest. Tail exceed- 

 ingly long, deeply forked, the feathers all broad, their tips obtusely rounded. 

 Legs short; bare space of tibiae brief. Tarsus equal to middle toe and claw, 

 of rather large size, and stout form. Colors unicolor, or nearly so. 



Three species are at present known to constitute this genus. These are 

 the following : 



* Etym. from Gr. Ku/utos, " wave, " and X'^"^) " * dance". 

 1864.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



1. Cymochorea leucorrhoa, Coues ex Vieillot. 



The specific characters of this, the common and abundant " Leach's Petrel," 

 being so well known, need not detain us. Its synonymy, however, is suffi- 

 ciently extensive and complicated to require attention. 



There can be no doubt, I think, that the Procellaria leucorrhoa, Vieillot, 

 Nouveau Dictionaire d'flistoire Naturelle, tome xxv. 1817, page 422, was 

 based upon this species. Vieillot's description is : — " Sept pouces et demi de 

 longueur totale ; la queue fourchue ; le bee, les pieds, les pennes alavies et 

 caudales, noires ; la reste du plumage couleur de suie, a I'exceptiou des cou- 

 vertures superieures de la queue qui sont blanches, et d'un lisere gris-blanc 

 qui est a I'extremit^ des pennes secondaires de I'aile." Our author further 

 remarks that this Petrel " se tient sur I'ocean" — Atlantic — "jusqu'au Brazil, 

 et peutetre encore au dela." In every respect the description so clearly and 

 completely applies to the present species, that no argument is needed to prove 

 the propriety of the reference. 



The next notice of the species that I have met with is by Temminck, Man- 

 uel d'ornithologie, 1820, ii. page 812, under the name of Procellaria Leachii. 

 The description is pertinent and complete, and the indication of the species 

 so unmistakeable, that the name Leachii has always remained the one in 

 common employ among ornithologists. 



In 1828, Dr. Fleming, in his "History of British Animals," page 136, de- 

 scribes this species under the name of Procellaria Bullockii. 



The citation ^^Procellaria pelagica, Pallas nee Linnaeus," is given by Bona- 

 parte as refering to this species. From what is now known of the range of 

 habitat of the latter, it would seem at best but a doubtful citation. 



In addition to the above, the species has been placed in numerous genera. 

 It is the Thalasiidroma Leachii of Bonaparte, Consp. av. ii. 195 ; the Thalassi- 

 droma Bullockii of Selby, Ornith. ii. page 537 ; and the Hydrobates Leachii of 

 Bole, Isisvon Oken, 1822, p. 562. 



2. Cymochorea mblania, Coues ex Bonap. 



This, the second species of the genus, was first introduced by Bonaparte in his 

 Not. Orn. Delattr. in the Compt. Rend. 1854, xxviii. p. 662, under the name of 

 Procellaria melania. The following is his diagnosis. " Nigro-coracina, vel in uro- 

 pygio ; subtus fuliginosa ; alls longissimis ; cauda brevi, sed profunde furcata ; 

 tectricibus omnibus omnino nigris." Unfortunately, however, as it afterwards 

 proved, he neglected to give any measurements; as a consequence, the suc- 

 ceeding species, homochroa, about to be described, has appeared in the ix. vol. 

 of the Pacific Railroad Reports as the true melania^ when it is in reality a 

 very different bird, though, like melania, it wants a white rump. Prof. Baird 

 has been enabled to obtain from M. Pucheran the measurements of the true 

 melania, and these agree perfectly with a skin in the Smithsonian from Cape 

 St. Lucas, Lower California. As the species is yet rare in collections, and 

 one with which comparatively few ornithologists are autoptically ac- 

 quainted, a full description, taken from a typical example now before me, 

 may not be out of place here. 



Form. — The bill is large and robust, the mandibular rami of the intermaxil- 

 lary especially strong and prominent. The nasal tubes, as in T. Leachii, 

 measure a little less than half the length of bill. The bill is about two-thirds 

 the length of the skull ; about half that of the tarsus. The wings are mod- 

 erately long for this group, reaching only a little beyond the tail. The point 

 of the wing is formed by the second primary alone ; the third being interme- 

 diate between the second and the first ; and the first intermediate between the 

 third and fourth. The tail seems rather long for this group and is deeply 

 forked, all the rectrices being quite broad to their obtusely rounded tips. 

 The tibia is bare for a longer space than is that of T. Leachii. The legs are 

 short. The tarsi are slightly longer than the middle toe and claw. The outer 



[Mar. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. t7 



toe alone is absolutely longer than the middle one, but its claw is much 

 smaller. The apex of the inner claw reaches to the base of the middle one. 



Colors. — The entire plumage is of a deep sooty brownish black, deepest on 

 the sides of the head about the eyes and on the upper parts generally, in- 

 cluding the rump, changing gradually to a lighter, more fuliginous and more 

 brownish black on the belly, under tail coverts and crissum. The major 

 alar tectrices are lighter than the rest of the plumage, though not very con- 

 spicuously so. The remiges and rectrices are wholly pure black, as are the 

 bill, feet, claws and interdigital membranes. Iris light brown. 



Dimensions. — Length 900 inches, extent of wings 18-50 (on authority of 

 collector's label). Bill along culmen -60, along rictus -95 ; height at base -25, 

 width -25 ; length of nasal tubes -30. Wing from the carpal joint 6-70. Tail — 

 external feather 3 90, internal 2-70, depth of fork 1-20. Tibiae bare -50; tarsus 

 1-20, the middle toe and claw 1-10, (inches and hundredths.) 



(Description from No. 13,025, Smithsonian Register — (^ ; Cape St. Lucas, 

 Lower California. J. Xantus.) 



It is somewhat a question whether this species be not the Procellaria fuligi- 

 nosa of Latham, Ind. Orn. ii. 1790, p. 825. The following is his diagnosis : 

 " Pr. fuliginoso-fusca, capite, collo, remigibus rectricibusque nigris cauda 

 emarginata. * * * Habitat in insula Otaheite ; praecedentis* magnitudine." 



This description applies pretty w^ll, but the dimensions are far too large, 

 the preceding species — desolata — being described as eleven inches in length. 

 This same ^^Procellaria fuliginosa, Lath.," is more fully described by Vieillot, 

 Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xxv. p. 418, (1817,) under the name of ^'■Petrel fuligi- 

 neux d'Otaiti." Vieillot's description, however, only applies approximately. 

 The species is there said to be " dix pouces" long ; to have the tail only "un 

 pen fourchue ;" and it is stated that the interdigital membrane "a des taches 

 jaunes ga et la." — In view of the uncertainty, I do not see any cause to super- 

 sede Bonaparte's name. 



I am unable to discuss the relationships of a certain " Procellaria scapulata, 

 Brandt," referred with a query to this species by Bonaparte. 



The third species of the genus is the one already adverted to, as that 

 one figured and described in the Birds of North America, under the name 

 and with the synonymy of the melania, Bp. 



3. Cymochorea homochkoa, Cones. 



DiAG. C. Cymocliorese melanise nee perdissimilis ; sed multo minor, rostro laevi, 

 brevi, compresso, tarso nee longiore digito medio cum ungue ; plumbeo-vel 

 schistaceo-nigra vel in uropygio crissoque ; subtus sensim fuliginoso-nigra ; 

 alis caudaque fusco-nigris, tectricibus alarum majoribus dilutioribus. 

 Long, rostri -50 ; tarsi -90; poll. aug. alae 5-10. 



Petrel not very unlike T. melania, but much smaller, with a short, light, much 

 compressed bill, and the tarsus equal to the middle toe and claw. General 

 color a dull plumbeous or slaty black, growing more or less fuliginous on 

 the abdomen; the crissum and rump concolor with the rest of the plumage; 

 the wings and tail dull black, the greater wing coverts light greyish brown. 



Habitat. Farallone Islands, Pacific coast of North America. 



Form — The bill of this species is not quite half as long as the skull, rather 

 more than half the length of the quite short tarsus, is much compressed and 

 not very robust. The folded wings reach a little beyond the tail. The second 

 primary is a little the longest, the third is nearly equal, the first considerably 

 longer than the fourth. The tail is of about the same comparative length as in 

 Leachii or melania ; the depth of the fork being as great as in the latter species. 



*i e. desolata, 



f Etym. Gr. cjxoios, " like, same ;" XP""'! " color ;" in reference to the uniforrpilty 

 of its plumage. 



1864.] 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The tarsi arc comparatively a little shorter than in this species, being no 

 longer than the toe and claw. 



Color. — The plumage, although agreeing with that of melania in its general 

 characters, of its uniformity and the want of a white rump or crissuni, etc., 

 is yet quite different in tint, being of a decided plumbeous or dull deep blue- 

 ish black, rather than the smoky brownish black of melania. Indeed the tint 

 calls faintly to mind the plumage of jurcata. This plumbeous tint is most 

 palpable on the head and upper part of the back ; it deepens about the *>ye so 

 as to almost form an anteocular spot ; and on the breast gradually changes 

 to more of a fuliginous hue, which prevails over the whole abdomen and 

 under tail coverts. The color of the wings and tail is not different from that 

 which obtains with nearly all the species of the section, and there is also the 

 same dull greyish brown band along the greater coverts, and invading the 

 outer edges of most of the tertials, as well as their apices. A further character 

 of the species, wherein its coloration differs from that of melania, is found in 

 the inferior alar tectrices, and axillary feathers, many of which are wholly 

 or in part dull whitish. The feet are wholly black. 



Independently of any differences in plumage the following measurements, 

 compared with those already given of the melania, serve at once to separate 

 the two species : — 



Dimensions. — Length (approximately correct only) '7*25 inches. Wing, 

 from the carpal joint, 500 or a little more. Bill, along culmen, -50 ; along 

 rictus -75 ; height at base -21 ; width -20; length of nasal tubes -24. Tarsus 

 •90; middle toe and claw about the same. Tail — outer feather 3-25; 

 inner 2-60. 



Three fine specimens of this interesting species are in the Smithsonian 

 Museum, all procured at the Farallone Islands, Pacific coast of North 

 America. I have taken No. 21,444 as the type of my species. No. 13,725, 

 received from Mr. F. Gruber, is the original of the figure of " Melania, Bp.," 

 given in the atlas of the general report. All three are quite identical in 

 every respect. 



§ III. HALOCYPTENA,* Coues, nov. gen. 



The third genus of the group is one as yet undescribed, and which' I have 

 now the pleasure of introducing to the notice of ornithologists. It differs 

 most remarkably from all other genera of the Procellarias in the possession 

 of a cuneate tail. In most other respects it comes nearest to Procellaria 

 proper, yfHYi pelngica as type; but it nevertheless differs from that genus in 

 addition to the peculiar shape of its tail, in its exceedingly long and acute 

 wings. The following are its diagnostic characters. 



Chab. Gen. — Bill much shorter than the head, about half the tarsus, weak, 

 slender, compressed, the convexity of the culmen beyond the nostrils very 

 great. Nasal tubes as in other Procellariese. Wings very long, reaching 

 much beyond the tail, acutely pointed ; second primary longest, third nearly 

 equal, first about as long as the fourth. Tibia; naked for a very short space. 

 Tarsus a little longer than the middle toe or claw. Outer toe without claw, 

 absolutely as long as the middle; but its claw very short and weak. Tip of 

 inner claw reaching to the base of the middle one. Hallux exceedingly 

 minute. Webs moderately full ; their margins incised. Claws compressed, 

 curved, acute. Tail rather long, wedge-shaped ; the central rectrices pro- 

 jecting somewhat beyond the rest; the lateral all regularly graduated ; the 

 tips of all narrow, acutely rounded. Unicolor ; of very small size, and ex- 

 ceedingly deli, ate form. 



The only known species of the genus is the following : — 



*Ktym. of name from Gr. oxc "ocean," iituf "swift," '{rrnrec ''winged;*' 

 "having the power of flight." Jlalocyptena^ " the swift ocean-flyer." 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 79 



1. Falocyptbna microsoma, Coucs, nov. sp. 



DfAG. : Ilalocyptena rostro, pedibus, alis cauddque nigris ; corpore toto 

 intense fusco-atro, abdomine sensim fnliginoso, tectricibus alarum raajoribuB 

 dilutioribus. Long. tot. 5.75 ; alfe 4.75 poll. Ang. et cent. 



Description. — Form typical of the genus, as above characterized. Entire 

 plumage deep lustrous brownish black, darkest on the head, neck, back, and 

 upper parts generally ; changing gradually on the abdomen to a fuliginous 

 brown, which is the prevailing tint of the under parts, from the breast back- 

 wards including the under tail coverts. The lesser and medium wing 

 coverts are as dark as the back; as are also the inferior alar tectrices. The 

 greater coverts are considerably lighter ; being with the external borders of 

 some of the tertials dull brownish, with a cast of gray. The remiges and 

 rectrices are pure black. There is no indication of white on the rump or 

 crissura. The bill, feet, and claws are black, as are also the interdigltal 

 membranes. 



Dimenmons. — Total length from tip of bill to end of-tail 5.75 inches and 

 hundredths. Wing from the carpal joint 4.75. Bill from front along culmen 

 .48 hundredths; along rictus .62; height at base .19; width .21; length of 

 nasal tubes .22. Bare portion of tibiae .30 ; tarsus .90 ; middle toe and claw 

 .82 ; inner do. .68 ; outer do. .80. Tail to end of central rectrices 2.50; to end 

 of outer do. 2.15. Difference between central and next pair .15 hundredths. 



IlabVat. — South Pacific coast of North America. 



Typical and unique specimen No. 11,420 of Smithsonian Museum Register. 

 Adult female, taken in May, 1861, by John Xantus, at San Jose del Caba, 

 Lower California. 



This diminutive species hardly exceeds in size the little O. pelagica, and is 

 at the same time much slenderer and more delicate in form than that species. 

 The combination of the small size; peculiar form and uniform colors widely 

 separate it from any other known Petrel. 



§ IV, PROCELLARIA, Linn, emend. 



The genus of which the \\ii\Q <pelagica L. is the type constitutes the fifth 

 and the last one of this short-legged group of Procellarieae. It is readily 

 recognizable among all its allies by the combination of its short legs, acute 

 claws, and square or slightly rounded tail. As to size, it comprehends the 

 very smallest of known natatores ; with hardly the exception of my diminu- 

 tive little Halocyptena microsoma. The bill is small, short compressed, the 

 sides rapidly converging to the narrow tip ; less than half as long as the 

 skull, a little more than half the tarsus. The wings in length are t}-pical of 

 the section ; reaching beyond the tail. The second primary is longest ; the 

 third a little shorter; the first less than the fourth. The bare proportion of 

 the tibiae is short ; the tarsus is just equal to the middle toe and claw. The 

 proportions of the toes to each other are as in other genera, already described. 

 The tail is moderately long, full, the feathers broad ; a little rounded in 

 shape. In color this genus is usually dark with a white rump and crissum ; 

 though this color does not obtain throughout the genus, if such species as 

 nereis, Gould, and/asciolata, Tschudi, reallj' belong here. 



The genus Procellnria first appears in 1746, in the sixth edition of the Sys- 

 temae Naturae, having as its type the P . pelagica, Linnaeus. Throughout suc- 

 cessive editions the same species is invariably made typical; as it also is in 

 the Edition of Gmelin (1788), and in Latham's Index Ornithologicus (1790). 

 I am, therefore, quite at a loss to discover the grounds upon which modern 

 ornithologists have been justifiable in assigning the name ProceUvria to such 

 a genus e. g. as that of which glacinlin. or antarctietis, or Cooki, are respectively 

 typical. If with Dr. Schlegel we admit but a single genus of Procellarinas, 

 that will of course be Procellaria ; and we shall employ it in its original Lin- 

 nean acceptation. If, however, with almost all ornithologists, we make a 



1864.] 




80 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



family Procellaridse of Linnaeus' genus Procellaria, and proceed to separate 

 the component genera according to the now generally received definition of 

 a "genus;" then Procellaria must be restricted io pelagica and its congeners, 

 and other names be found for the remaining generic groups ; there are few 

 points of synonymy, involving a Linnean name, more clearly demonstrated 

 than this. 



The first synonym of Procellaria that I have met with is Hydrobates, Bole, 

 Isis Von Oken, 1822, p. 562. This has pelagica as its type. This is not, 

 however, to be confounded with Ilydrohata, Vieillot, 1816, wihch is a genus 

 of Turdidse, with Sturnus cinclus, L. as type. 



The second synonym of the genus is Thallassidroma, Vigors, Zoological 

 Journal, Vol. ii. for October, 1825, page 405. Although based upon pelagica, 

 and therefore an entire synonym of Procellaria, Linn., this name has become 

 most firmly established, not only as an appellation for this genus, but also 

 for all the Stormy Petrels indiscriminately. It will be evident, I hope, from 

 what has just been said, that not only is the name quite untenable for the 

 present genus, but that it cannot be used with propriety in any connection. 



The number of species composing this genus is a little uncertain ; partly 

 in consequence of unusual variations to which pelagica seems subject ; and 

 partly because the indications of many comparatively recently described 

 species are not explicit enough as regards proportions, etc., to admit of a 

 definite reference to their proper genus. I will first notice pelagica and its 

 kindred species, and then consider those species which seem to fall most 

 naturally in this genus. 



1. Procellaria pelagica, Linnaeus. 



Syst. Nat. ed. vi., 1746; nee. Wils. Amer. Ornith. vii. p. 90. Hydrobates 

 pelagica, Boie, Isis, 1822, p. 562. Thallasndroma pelagica, Y {gov?,, Zool. Journ. 

 ii., 1825, p. 405, et auctorum fere omnium post. A. D. MDCCCXXV. Above 

 glossy brownish black, below more fuliginous — the under tail coverts, however, 

 of the former color, and very long, reaching sometimes to beyond the tips of 

 the rectrices themselves. The superior caudal tectrices are pure white, ter- 

 minated, however, with equally well defiaed black tips. The white of the 

 crissum is less pure and well defined ; and that of the under tail coverts is 

 much interrupted with blackish. The inferior alar tectrices and the axillary 

 feathers are variegated with light touches of dull white. 



This species apparently varies to an unusual extent in size, especially as 

 regards length of wing. Specimens before me measure about 4J inches from 

 the carpal joint. Dr. Schlegel says, " aile 4 pouces a 4 pouces 6 lignes." 

 Mr. Lawrence says " wing five inches." These variations, and doubtless cor- 

 responding discrepancies in other dimensions, have been the cause of the 

 founding of several species ; either entirely nominal, or at most constituting 

 races of the same parent stock. Omitting entirely to notice Brehm's multi- 

 farious "species" [sic!] those most entitled to consideration are the fol- 

 lowing : — 



? 2. Procellaria tbthys, Bonaparte. 



Comptes Rendus, 1854, xxxviii. p. 662 ; et 1856, xlii. f. 769, et Consp. Av. 

 ii., 1856, p. 197. From the Gallapagos Islands. This typical Procellaria 

 is exceedingly closely allied to ^fZa^rjca ; but differs from it in wanting the 

 black tips of the superior caudal tectrices, which are always found in the 

 latter. It is also said to be somewhat smaller, and to have less markedly 

 the transalar fascia. 

 ? 3. Procellaria lugubris, Natterer. 



Acta Ital. Mediol., 1844. " Ex occano Mered." This species (if it be really 

 one), differs from the typKcaA pelagica in being somewhat larger, and in having 

 a more robust bill. It would appear also that there is less of whitish upon 

 either surface of tl^e wing, and upon the under tail coverts. The upper tail 



[March 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



coverts have the same black tips. Without a typical example professing to 

 be this species, I am unable to decide definitely concerning it, but I am much 

 inclined to doubt its validity. 



? 4. Prooellaria melitensis, Schembri. 



" Thalassidroma melitensis, Schembri, Catal. Ornith. del. Grupp. di Malta, p. 

 118." This is a species placed by Bonaparte as a synonym of a. pelagica, but 

 by Gray considered as distinct. I have no means of judging of its validity. 

 The name is employed by Reichenbach to designate the ivMQ pelagica, 



5. Procellaria nereis, Bp. ex Gould. 



Thalassidroma nereis, Gould, Proc. Zool. Soc, Lond., 1840, viii. p. 178. 

 Procellaria nereis, Bp. Consp. Avium, 1856, ii. p. 196. 



I have had the pleasure of examining Mr. Gould's types of this species from 

 Bass' Straits, Australia, now in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy. 

 It is a beautiful little species, quite unlike any other known Stormy Petrel. 

 In form it comes nearer to Procellaria pelagica than to any other species, and 

 it is probably congeneric with it, though it differs somewhat in the propor- 

 tions of the tarsus and toes, and very widely in its pattern of coloration. 



The bill is very small, short, and compressed. The wings reach just 

 beyond the tail ; the second primary is the longest ; the third and first nearly 

 equal ; the fourth much shorter. The tail is long, slightly rounded ; the rec- 

 trices broad to their very tips. The tibiae are denuded for from half to two- 

 thirds of an inch. The proportions of the tarsus and toes differ from those 

 of pelagica, in the greater comparative length of the former. 



The bill, legs, and feet are black. The head all round, the upper part of 

 the neck and the nape are fuliginous brown with a cinereous hue. This 

 bluish ashen tint becomes the prevailing color on the lower part of the back, 

 the wing and tail coverts, and the tertials ; these feathers being edged more 

 or less conspicuously with grayish white. The primaries are brownish black, 

 lighter on their inner webs, the more inner ones with an ashen tinge. The 

 caudal rectrices are light ashen blue, gradually deepening towards their tips 

 into pure black. The entire under parts from the breast backwards, and the 

 under surfaces of the wings, except just along their edges, are pure white. 

 There are a few longitudinal shaft lines of bluish gray on the sides and 

 crissum, which became still more obvious on the under tail coverts. 



This species inhabits the Australian seas. 



7. Procellaria pasciolata, Coues ex Tsch. 



Thalassidroma fasciolata, Tschudi, Beitrage zur Geographischen Verbreitung 

 der Meeresvogel in Cabanis' Journ. f. Ornith. iv.. May, 1856, p. 180. From 

 the Aurora Islands. " Sein Kopf ist schwarz, der Mantel rost braun, die 

 untere Seite der Fliigel mattschwarz, die obere wie der Mantel. Vom Rucken 

 aber bis zur Wurzel der ersten Schwungfedern verlauft ein ^ Zoll breiter 

 weisslich-brauner Streif. Der Bauch ist tiefschwarz, der Steiss schneweiss. 

 Der Schwanz ist schwarz, facherformig, schwach halbmondformig ausges- 

 chweift. Schnabel und Fiisse sind schwarz, die schwimmhaut sehr weit, die 

 Iris tief schwarzbraun. An Grosse iibertrifft er die Th. pelagica um ein 

 Bedeutendes." 



The above is the reference to and a copy of the description of a species 

 recently introduced by Dr. Tschudi, and by him supposed to be new. If alt: 

 the characters mentioned in the description really obtain, the species is cer- 

 tainly a valid one, for it is not at all like any known species of Stormy Petrel. 

 My reference of it to the genus Procellaria is upon supposition ; for the 

 description affords not the slightest clue to its proper position. I would have 

 preferred to have allowed it to remain under Dr. Tschudi's designation, but 

 as Thalassidroma is an untenable name, I have seen fit to substitute the proper 

 appellation of the genus. It is to be hoped that we may before long know 



1864.] 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



more concerning the validity, and in that event, regarding the generic rela- 

 tions, of this supposed species. 



?? 8. On the same page where fasciolata is described. Dr. Tschudi goes on 

 to speak of a Petrel of which he saw several examples some degrees further 

 south, but of which he was unable to procure specimens. The mantle was 

 dark gray, the head blackish, the neck somewhat darker ; the feet and bill 

 black, the wing feathers blackish, the abdomen grayish white. In size it 

 hardly equalled pelagica. " Ich wage daher nicht mit Bestimmtheit zu ent- 

 scheiden, ob diese Vogel zu einer Species gehoren, noch dem von mir 

 beobachteten einen Namen zu gaben." A few pages further on (p. 190), the 

 supposed species is named Thai, dubia. As from the circumstances of obser- 

 vation there is extreme liability to error, and, at all events, great uncer- 

 tainty. Thai, dubia had better quietly await more reliable data before claim- 

 ing recognition. 



The remaining species constitute the second group of Procellariese, separ- 

 able from the preceding group by exceedingly trenchant characters. In 

 the first place, the species all stand high : the lengthened tarsi much exceed 

 in dimensions the long toes, while at the same time the tibiae are greatly 

 elongated, and bare of feathers for the greater part of their extent. The 

 claws are very diiferent from those of the first section, being broader than 

 high, depressed, not compressed, and always more or less rounded and 

 obtuse. The tail varies, being either rounded, square or forked ; but when 

 the latter, it is never so deeply forked as in oceanodroma, etc., of the first group. 

 The wings are very long, much surpassing the tail. 



Three distinct genera constitute this section. 



§ VI. OCEANITES, Keys, et Blag. 



This is the genus of which our common "Wilson's Petrel" is the type, — 

 first named Oceanites by Keyserling and Blasius Wirlbelth. Europ. ii., 1364, p. 

 238. It is in many respects the most distinct and remarkable genus of the 

 Procellarieae, being widely diverse in all its characters from all others. It 

 may be well here to define its limits with precision. 



Oceaniles, Keys, et Bl. (Type Proc. pelagica, Wils. nee Linn.) The bill is 

 short, weak, compressed, its sides a little concave, its tip attenuated, the 

 convexity of the culmen along the unguis comparatively little ; it is less than 

 half as long as the head, about half as long as the middle toe without the 

 claw, about two-fifths the tarsus. The nasal tubes, instead of rising obliquely 

 upwards and forwards, as in the genera of the first section, have their dorsal 

 outline perfectly straight and horizontal. The wings are exceedingly long 

 and acute, and the proportions of the primaries different fiom that which 

 obtains in any genus hitherto considered ; the second primary very much 

 the longest; the first fully equal to the third; the fourth very greatly shorter 

 than the first. The tail is of moderate length and nearly square, being 

 neither much forked nor much rounded, large and full, the feathers broad 

 to their very tips. The legs are the most peculiar. The elongated tibiae are 

 bare for an inch or more. The very long tarsi present the remarkable feature 

 of having their anterior and lateral aspects covered with one smooth unbroken 

 podotheca or " boot," resulting from the fusion together of the ordinary plates 

 and scutellae. Posteriorly the plates remain pretty distinct. The toes, 

 though very long, are, without the claws, only two-thirds the tarsus. The 

 hallux is so extremely minute as to be discernible only on close inspection, 

 when it is apparent; as an exceedingly short, acute claw. The anterior claws 

 are tiattened and broad, and scarcely at all curved. The species of the genus 

 are among the larger in size, with much the colors of Procellaria proper. 



Of the genus as thus constituted, the following species are known to me: — 



1. OCKANITBS OCEANICA, (Kuhl). 



Procellaria pelagica, Wils. Am. Orn., 1808, vi. p. 90, pi. Ix. Procellaria 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 83 



oeeanica, Kuhl, Beit. Zool., 1820, Monog. Proc. p. 136, pi. x. fig. i. Thalcusi' 

 droma oeeanica, Gray. Geu. Birds iii., 1849. Thalassidroma Wilsoni, Bonap., J. 

 A. N. S., Ptiilada. iii. 1823, p. 231, pi. ix. et auct. Oceanites Wilsoni, Keys et 



Bias. Wirbelth. Europ. ii., 1840, p. 238. Oceanites oeeanica, ? This is 



one of tlie best knowa and most widely distributed of the Procellarieae. Its 

 characters need not detain us. Some points of synonymy seem, however, to 

 require investigation. 



The first notice of the species is in 1808, when it was accurately described 

 and figured by Wilson, as above, under the erroneous name of Procellaria 

 pelagica, Linn. This error was first noticed and corrected by Bonaparte in 

 the Journal of the Philadelphia Academy for 1823, and the species named 

 Thalassidroma Wilsoni. This is the appellation by which it has been most 

 usually known to ornithologists. 



In the year 1820 there appeared in Kuhl's Beitrage Zur Zoologie, in the 

 article entitled " Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Procellarien," a description 

 accompanied with a figure of the head, of the present species, under the 

 name of ^^ Procellaria oeeanica Banks." The figure is poor, and difficult to 

 recognize, but the full description is pertinent in every respect, and un- 

 equivocally refers to the present species. This name should consequently 

 receive that precedence over Wilsoni to which its priority clearly entitles. 

 Indeed, Bonaparte himself, in his Conspectus Generum Avium, p. 199, and 

 also in his Conspectus Gaviaerum in the Comptes Rendus for April 28, 1856, 

 admits that the two names refer to the same species. 



The only question appears to be this : — Banks had, before the appearance of 

 Kuhl's Monograph, applied the name oeeanica to specimens of this species 

 from the Southern Oceans. This Australian form Bonaparte considers as a 

 variety of the Atlantic bird, in the fasciculus of his Conspectus bearing date 

 of Jan. 1st, 1856 ; and shortly afterwards, in the Comptes Rendus for April 

 28, 1856, he accords to it full specific rank. If the Australian form be really 

 a distinct species, then, of course, it would bear Bank's and Kuhl's name of 

 oeeanica, and Wilsoni could be retained for the Atlantic species. Such, how- 

 ever, I am confident, is not the case. I have carefully examined specimens 

 of the species from Australia (among them the types of Mr. Gould's work, 

 "The Bird's of Australia"), and I have failed to detect the slightest differ- 

 ences which could even mark the southern bird as a distinct variety. They 

 appear to me absolutely identical, as indeed they are considered by the 

 majority of writers. Such being the case, then, " Wilsoni, Bp.," must become 

 a synonym of oeeanica, Kuhl, and the species be known as Oceanites oeeanica. 



2. Oceanites linbata, Bonap. ex Peale. 



Thalassidroma lineata, Peale, Ornith. U. S. Bxpl. Exped. Oceanites lineatct, 

 Bonaparte, Consp. av. ii. 1856, p. 200. — Several good examples of this well 

 marked species are in the Smithsonian Museum, being those collected by Mr. 

 Peale himself. It is very different in most of its characters from the preced- 

 ing species. It is a much larger bird. The wing measures 6^ inches from 

 the flexure, the tail a little more than 3 inches. The tarsus is If inches 

 long; the middle toe and claw 1^. The bill is larger and stouter, though 

 of the same relative proportions. The tarsi, however, absolutely but little 

 if any longer, and are, therefore, relatively shorter, as lineata is a larger bird. 

 The general pattern of coloration is the same as in oeeanica ; but lineata may 

 be readily distinguished by the white streaks which variegate the under sur- 

 face of the body and wings. On the anterior portions of the belly, the black 

 and white are in about equal amount, but more posteriorly and on the 

 crissum, under wing and tail coverts, the white is by far the predominating 

 color. The black appears only along the centre of each feather as a shaft 

 line, producing an appearance which renders the name " lineata^' exceedingly 

 pertinent. This species wants the yellow spaces on the interdigital mem- 



1864.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



branes, so conspicuous in oceanica. The most important difference in form 

 between the two species lies in the much greater flatness and obtuseness of 

 the claws of lineata. 



With the following two species I am autoptically unacquainted, and can 

 only judge of their specific validity, and of their generic relations, from the 

 descriptions of their authors. They evidently, however, belong to the long- 

 legged, depressed-clawed group of Stormy Petrel, and I think there can be 

 little or no doubt that they both are species of Oceanites. Such indeed is 

 certainly the case with the Thai, segethi of Phillippi and Landbeck,* the de- 

 scription of which is so complete and perfect in every respect, that I have no 

 difficulty in assigning it to its proper genus. — Would that all birds could be 

 as thoroughly described on their first introduction to ornithologists ! The 

 Thai, gracilis^ Elliot, seems so closely allied to both lineata and segethi, that it 

 can hardly but be an Oceanites ; though I cannot speak concerning it with the 

 same degree of certainty as I do regarding the former species. 



3. Oceanites segethi, Coues. ex Ph. et Ldbk. 



Thalassidroma segethi, Phillippi and Landbeck, Wiegmann's Archiv, 1860, p. 

 282. — The following description of this species is condensed from the one 

 originally given by its discoverers : ' 



The bill and feet are glossy black. The head, neck, back, throat and breast, 

 as well as the upper wing coverts, dark blackish gray, the latter, however, 

 tending somewhat towards brownish. Wing and tail feathers deep black. 

 The feathers of the upper parts have white borders, which, however, are 

 worn away in the course of the summer. The inner web of the four outer 

 tail feathers is white at the base. The upper tail coverts, the abdomen, the 

 flanks, and the circumanal region are white. Under tail coverts are black, 

 with white bases and tips. The lesser inferior wing coverts, and the whole 

 border of the wings are black, the rest of the inferior coverts white. 



Length 7 J inches (French). Bill 6 lines ; tail 2 inches 11 lines ; wing 5J 

 inches. Tarsus 1 inch 5 lines ; middle toe 10 lines. Naked portion of the 

 tibise 7 lines: Wings when folded reaching an inch beyond the tail. 



Habitat. — The coast of Chili. 



This species is compared by its describers with the lineata as follows : " It 

 comes nearest to the species described by Titian Peale, in the United States 

 Exploring Expedition, which was found breeding on the Island of Upolu. 

 This species agrees with ours in size, in the form of the feet, and in the 

 colors generally, but differ from it in this respect, that, while in lineata the 

 feathers of the neck are white with black tips, and those of the breast, belly 

 and flanks are white in the middle and black at the tips, in segethi i}xG; feathers 

 of the neck and breast are uniformly slatey black, and those of the abdomen 

 and flanks are entirely white ; moreover, in segethi the outermost of the supe- 

 rior tail coverts are wholly white, while in lineata they have black shaft 

 lines." 



This species, however, requires very careful comparison with the succeed- 

 ing, before its claims to specific distinction can be fully substantiated. I do 

 not hesitate to express my decided opinion, that they will be found to be 

 identical ; for, so far as I can judge of the colors from the descriptions, they 

 are quite similar, and certain descrepancies in the measurements of the two 

 may result from the difference between the French and English inch. The 

 habitat of the two birds is precisely the same ; still, in view of some points, 

 in the descriptions which do not entirely accord, and especially because it 



* These anthors themselyes remark (p. 284) "on account of the long legs, and the much abbre- 

 Tiated hallux, our bird should be referred to Bonaparte's new genus Oceanites; but -t appears 

 that a generic separation can hardly be mad^ with propriety upon such inconsiderable differences." 

 May 1 be allowed to ask, with propriety, if shnpe of bill, peculiar proportions o*' tarsus and toes, 

 length of wings and tail, and above alJ, the fusion of the tarsal plates can be accounted as "in- 

 considerable differences?" 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Beems useless to exchange one doubtful opinion for another, I have preferred 

 to consider both species as valid, until an opportunity be afforded of deter- 

 mining the question with certainty. 



4. OcKANiTKS GRACILIS, Coues cx EUiot. 



Thalassidroma gracilis^ D. G. Elliot, Sclater's Ibis, 1859, p. 391. — " Plumage 

 sooty black. Quill feathers brown. Secondary coverts margined with light 

 brown. Rump, upper tail coverts and middle of abdomen, white. Tail black, 

 the two outer feathers with a white mark on the lower half of the inner web, 

 growing narrower as it descends ; lower half of the shafts white, the rest 

 black. Under tail coverts white margined with black. Breast sooty. Bill 

 black. Tarsi and feet very long and slender, black. Length 5*90 inches ; 

 wing 5-22 ; tail 2-40 ; bill '40 ; tarsus 1-20." 



Habitat. — Coast of Chili. 



In general characters this species seems closely allied to Oceaniies lineata, and 

 the pattern of coloration is, in many respects, very similar. The dimensions 

 of the bird, however, will at once separate it from that species ; for the wing 

 is more than half an inch shorter, the tail fully as much less, and the bill, 

 tarsus and toes are proportionally as much smaller in dimensions. As already 

 remarked, it comes much nearer to the 0. segethi, and is very possibly the 

 £ame bird. In the event of this proving to be the case, gracilis, Elliot, has 

 priority over segethi, Ph. et L., and must be retained as the name of the 

 species. 



§ VII. FREGETTA, Bp. 



This well marked genus, as limited by its author, Bonaparte, contains sev- 

 eral species, all more or less closely allied to each other, and agreeing in the 

 possession of the following generic characters : The bill is small and short, 

 measuring in length hardly half that of the skull ; about as high as broad 

 at the base, the sides converging rapidly toward a somewhat compressed, at- 

 tenuated and decurved tip. The nasal tubes are stout, short and elevated 

 towards their extremities. The culmen and commissure are both much de- 

 curved. The wings are rather elongated, reaching a little beyond the tail ; 

 the second primary is longest, the third nearly equal ; the first generally 

 between the third and fourth. The tail is long, nearly square, but sometimes 

 more or less emarginate ; the rectrices all exceedingly broad to their very 

 tips, which are subtruncated. The legs are long and stout; the tibise naked 

 for a considerable space ; the tarsi much exceed in length the toes, which 

 latter are very short, unusually stout, and connected by rather narrow webs. 

 The species are all of rather large size, and stout form, and are bicolor, the 

 dark and light colors occupying distinct areas. The type of the genus is the 

 Thalassidroma tropica, Gould, which, with the other species, chiefly inhabit the 

 intertropical and southern seas. 



The genus is so well marked as to require special comparison with no 

 other. The following are the species composing it with which I am ac- 

 quainted : 

 1. Fregetta tropica, Bp. ex Gould. 



First described by Gould, Ann. et Magaz. Nat. Hist. vol. xiii. p 366, under 

 the name of Thalassidroma tropica, this species is referred to its proper genus 

 by Bonaparte, in his Conspectus Generum Avium, p. 197, and also in his 

 Conspectus Gaviarium, p. 797 of the Comptes Rendus for 1856. If there be 

 other synonyms of the species, I have not met with them. 



It is the largest species of the genus, measuring 8-75 to 9-00 inches in 

 length. The tail is more forked than in the other representatives of the 

 genus, the depth of the emargination being J of an inch. The bill measures 

 a little more than J the length of the tarsus and it is rather stout, especially 

 at the base, where it is broader than high. The tarsus varies from l^ to If 

 of an inch in length ; the middle toe with its claw 1^ inches, or a little more. 



1864.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The plumage is fuliginous black ; the lower part of the breast, the belly, the 

 sides under the wings, both tail coverts, the throat, and a nuchal collar, 

 white. 



The species inhabits the intertropical portions of both the Atlantic and 

 Pacific Oceans. 



In the shape of the bill, emargination of the tail, length of wing, and pe- 

 culiar proportions of the tarsus and toes, this species differs somewhat from 

 the other representatives of the genus Fregetta, as here adopted, — so much so, 

 that ornithologists may perhaps hereafter find it expedient to restrict the genus 

 to this single type, and present the remaining species under a different ge- 

 neric appellation. 



2. Fregktta grallaria, Bp. ex Vieillot. 



This long known species has, in spite of its well marked characters, been 

 presented under so numerous and diverse designations, that its synonymy re- 

 quires careful consideration. 



The first unequivocal indication of this species that I have met with is that 

 given by Vieillot, on page 418 of vol. xxvi of the Nouveau Dictionnaire, (1817,) 

 under the name of '' Le petrel ^chasse, Procellaria grallaria." The accompa- 

 nying description, though brief, is entirely pertinent to the present species ; 

 and Vieillot's name is, therefore, entitled to priority over subsequent desig- 

 nations. 



Prof. Lichtenstein has, in the Catalogue of the Duplicates of the Berlin 

 Museum, page 83, (1823), conferred the name grallaria upon a different species, 

 viz : — the melanogastra of Gould. 



In 1820 the species was presented by Kuhl, Monogr. Proc, p. 138, pi. x. fig. 3, 

 under the name of " Procellaria /regatta, Banks." This author's description is 

 very full and quite accurate, but he erroneously adduces the name ".P. seguorea" 

 as a synonym, whereas the latter really is a synonym of quite another species, 

 viz : — the Procellaria marina of Latham. 



Bonaparte acknowledges, in his Conspectus, p. 198, the error he committed 

 in 1828, of referring to this species under the name of Thalassidroma occanica, 

 he having in his synopsis of the Birds of North America confounded Vieillot's 

 grallaria with the Oceanites oceanica of this paper. 



Finally, in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History, Mr. Gould describes 

 this species as new under the name of Thalassidroma leucogastra. 



A fine suite of specimens are before me, among which are some of Mr. Gould's 

 typical examples, received by the Philadelphia Academy from him. They vary 

 more than is usual among the Procellaria, in the color of the upper parts, 

 which ranges from a deep fuliginous brownish black to a much lighter plum- 

 beous or ashen hue. Some — the lightest colored ones — have all the dorsal 

 feathers edged with greyish white. The circumocular region is usually the 

 darkest colored. The white of the under parts varies exceedingly in extent; 

 it sometimes reaches far up on the throat, including nearly all the under sur- 

 face of the bird ; while in other examples it is nearly as much restricted, that 

 is to say, descends as low on the breast as is usual in examples of melanogastra. 

 The lightest colored birds are apparently the most immature. 



The bill is stout, nearly as high as broad at the base, measuring from the 

 front to apex, about half the length of the skull. The nasal tubes are long and 

 elevated. The wings are moderately long, reaching just beyond the very 

 slightly emarginate tail. The second primary is longest ; the third nearly 

 equal ; the first iutermediate between the third and fourth. The rectrices are 

 exceedingly broad to their very tips, which are subtruncated. The tibiae are 

 denuded for the space of one inch. The tarsus measures 1"50 to 1-60 inches, 

 the middle toe and claw 1-05 to I-IO. The wing from the flexure measures 6J 

 laches. 



The species inhabits the tropical portions of both oceans. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



3. Fregetta melanogastra, Bp. ex Gould. 



Thalassidroma melanogastra, Gould, Ann. et Mag. Nat. Hist., xiii. p. 367. 



I have had an opportunity of examining Mr. Gould's typical specimens of 

 this species, now in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy. Although it 

 is very closely allied to the preceding, both in form and colors, yet it con- 

 stantly differd as follows : While a somewhat smaller bird, it has yet consid- 

 erably longer tarsi and toes ; the bill is longer, slenderer, with a more atten- 

 uated and gradually decurved unguis. The wing is nearly an inch shorter ; 

 the proportions of the primaries about the same as in grallaria. The tail 

 is about a third of an inch less. With the same general distribution of colors 

 as ingrallaria, this species differs in the presence of a central longitudinal brown- 

 ish black streak, which divides the white of the abdomen into two symmetrical 

 lateral h.-dves. This ray is not always perfect, being sometimes only indicated 

 by a few disconnected, black feathers. I have never, however, in a large num- 

 ber of specimens seen it entirely wanting, but eVen if this be ever the case, the 

 species may be readily diagnosed by its peculiarities of size and form above 

 detailed. 



The species inhabits the tropical regions of the Pacific Ocean. 



This is, in all probability, the species indicated by Forster, Descriptiones 

 Animalium, Edit. Lichtenstein, 1844, p. 180, under the name of "Pz-oceWana 

 fregata, Linn. ;" at least, I judge this to he the case (although no mention is 

 made of the ventral ray) from the annexed foot-note, by Prof. Lichtenstein, in 

 which the latter says that it is upon this species {fregata, Forst.) he has based 

 his Procellaria grallaria, (Oat. Dupl. Berl. Mus. p. 83) which is " ob longitudi- 

 nem pedum segreganda." This length of the feet is exactly the most patent 

 point of difference in form of this species from the preceding. 



4. Fkegetta Lawrencii, Bp. ex Lawr. 



Thallassidroma fregetta, Lawrence, Annals of the New York Lyceum of Natu- 

 ral History, 1851, p. 117. — Fregetta Lawrencii, Bonaparte, Conspectus Avium. 

 iL p. 198. 



It is exceedingly to be regretted that the typical and only known specimen 

 of this species has been lost, so that there is no opportunity of comparing it 

 with leucogastra, to which it is so very closely allied. I can, therefore, do no 

 more than simply present Mr. Lawrence's description, from which ornithologists 

 must judge for themselves regarding its specific validity. 



" Head and wings black ; neck, breast and back dark plumbeous, or dull 

 bluish ash ; wing coverts brown; the tail white at the base, with the terminal 

 half and the two central feathers black; abdomen, inside of wings and rump, 

 white ; bill and legs black. Tail even ; claws flattened and of an ovate form. 

 Length about 8 inches ; wing 6 ; tail 3 ; tarsus If. (Gen. Rep. Birds N. A., 

 p. 832). 



I VIL PELAGODROMA, Reichenbach. 



A very peculiar genus of Procellariese, readily recognizable by the following 

 characters : — 



Bill very long, but little less than the head, exceedingly slender, much com- 

 pressed, higher than broad at the base, the nasal tubes very short, less than 

 half the culmen, the unguis attenuated only slightly and very gradually de- 

 curved. Wings of moderate length, reaching just beyond the tail; second, 

 primary longest, third nearly equal, first about equal to the fourth. Tail very 

 long, nearly square or but slightly emarginated, the feathers all exceedingly 

 broad to their truncated apices. Legs very longf, somewhat stout, only mod- 

 erately compressed. Tibiie denuded for an inch or more. Tarsus of ordinary 

 length for this group ; toes all unusually long, the middle with its claw being 

 but little less than the tarsus. Interdigital membranes all very full and broad. 

 Of large size, rather stout form, and variegated colors. 



This genus agrees with Fregetta in many respects, but difi'ers markedly from 



1864.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



it in the length, straightness and attenuation of the bill ; and in the very unusu- 

 ally long toes, with their broad, full, interdigital membranes. The pattern of 

 coloration is very dissimilar from that of most of the species of tregetta or 

 indeed of any other genus of Procellarieae. 



The long and well known Procellaria fregetta of Linnaeus is its typical and 

 only species. 



I. Pelagodkoma fregata, Bp. ex Linn.* 



The history of the synonymy of this species is somewhat involved, since, as 

 demonstrated in the annexed foot-note, the Procellaria fregata of Linnaeus has 

 been very variously interpreted by different writers. Some authors have con- 

 sidered it as referring to the tropica of Gould, others to the grallaria of Vieillot, 

 others again to the mfiZano^as^ra of Gould ; while one author has applied the 

 name to a new species, afterwards dedicated to him by Bonaparte {Fregetta 

 Lawrencii.) But I entirely agree with Prof. Lichenstein, (foot-note on page 180 

 of Forster's "Descriptiones Animalium") and with Bonaparte (Conspectus, p. 

 198) that the Proc. fregata, Linn., was based upon the bird first described by 

 Barrere, and which Latham subsequently more definitely characterized as 

 Procellaria marina. With this view of the case, the following is an exposition 

 of the synonymy of the species in question : 



Proc. fregata Linnaeus, S. N. i. 1766, (nee Forster, nee Kuhl., nee Lawrence.) 

 Procellaria marina, Latham, Ind. Ornith. ii. 1T90, et Kuhl, Monog. Proc. 1823, 

 p. 138, pi. X, fig. 2. Thalassidroma marina, Gray, Genera Birds, iii. 1849. Pe- 

 lagodroma marina, Reichenbach, Syst. Av. Pelagodroma fregata, Bp.,Consp. Av. 

 ii. 1856, p. 198. Procellaria sequorea, Solander. Procellaria hypoleuca, Webb et 

 Berth., Av. Canar. 



This large and beautiful species, so peculiar both in form and colors, is too 

 well known to require any description in this connection. 



There is in the Philadelphia Academy a very young individual of this species 

 which has not yet wholly emerged from the downy state of plumage. Yet, 

 although so very immature, the peculiar color and markings of the adults are 

 already entirely apparent. This is ample evidence that the birds of this group 

 are subject to no ch.anges of plumage of any consequence in their progress 

 towards maturity. I have fortunately been able to extend the same observa- 

 tion to other species. A fledgling of Gymochorea leucorrhoa, now before me, has 

 exactly the pattern of coloration of the adults, and the uropygial white is 

 already discernable, the only difference being that the black is rather of a 

 slaty than of a fuliginous tint. The chief variations of plumage to which, at 

 least, the fuliginous species are subject, will all be found, I think, to depend 

 upon season. After the moults, when the feathers are fresh and new, they are 

 much darker, and more uniformly so, than after they have become old and 

 worn. Their tips then assume a somewhat lighter brown color, and the dull 

 brown alar fascia, common to so many of the species, becomes much more con- 

 spicuous. This is readily demonstrable by examining any of the fuliginous 

 species during the moult, when the old and new feathers will be found to be 

 quite different in the precise shade of the fuliginous brown. 



The preceding pages contain notices of all the known species of Procellarieae 



* Among the Procellarieje no name has been so indiscriminately used by authors for so many 

 different Bpecies as *• fregata, Linn.," variously spelled /regiato, fregatttx, fregetta, etc. That this 

 may occur less frequently in future, and for convenience of reference, the following synoptical view 

 of the various applications of the word is given: 



I'roc. FRRGAIA, Linn.'=P. icqiwrea,So\a.TaA.^P. hypoleuca, Webb, et Bprth.==P. marina, Latb.=> 

 Thai, marina, Or&y .=relagodroma marina, Reich.=i%iaflri droma fregata, Bp. ex L., of this 

 paper. 



Proc. FKEOATA, Fnrster.=P. graUaria Licht. nee VieilI.=(probably) Thai, melanogastra, Qonld,= 

 Fregetta melanogastra, Bp. ex Gould, of this paper. 



Proc. FREOATTA, KuhL^^P. gralUiria, 'VieiIl.=77iaJ. oceanica, Bon. (1828).=77iii?. leucogagtra, 

 Oo\i]d.=Frer^eUa graUaria, Bp. ex Vieill., of this paper. 



Thai. FRiGETTA. Lawrf=Fregetta, Lawrenoii, Bp. ex Lawr., of thifl paper. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 89 



with which I am acquainted, as well as references to and criticisms upon the 

 more or less doubtfully valid ones. I have purposely, however, omitted all 

 consideration of the Procellaria Bulweri of Jardine and Selby in this connec- 

 tion, because I cannot regard it as belonging to this group at all. This spe- 

 cies — the Thalassidroma Bulweri of some authors — the Puffinus columbinus, 

 Webb et Berth — the Procellaria anjinko, Heine — is by Bonaparte made the 

 type of a genus Bulweria, which its author places among the Procellarieoe. 

 But I assert most confidently that the bird in question is not a " Stormy 

 Petrel" at all, but a species of the section Fulmarese, closely allied to, and 

 entirely congeneric with, the P. atlantica, Gould, and the P. aterrima, Verreaux, 

 which compose Bonaparte's genus Pterodroma. The most constant and uni- 

 formly diagnostic character of the Stormy Petrels proper is found in the short- 

 ness of the first primary, compared with the second and third, and in a cer- 

 tain peculiar flexibility and elasticity of all the remiges. The P. Bulweri has 

 none of these characteristics. The general contour of the bill, and especially 

 the size and shape of the nasal tubes are very difierent from what obtains 

 throughout the Procellarieae ; while the feet and tail disagree to a scarcely 

 less marked extent. The fact of its small size seems to me no argument for 

 its introduction into this section, for it is scarcely smaller than several species 

 of PuflSneae, e. g., nugax, Solander, or yelknan, Acerbi. In my mind there is 

 no doubt that Dr. Schlegel has correctly indicated its affinities in placing it in 

 intimate connection with the Pterodroma aterrima, Verreaux, and atlantica, 

 Gould. 



The following is a brief synopsis of the genera and species of the section, 

 prepared according to the views expressed in the preceding pages. It is made 

 as brief as is consistent with perspicuity, only the more important features 

 being presented. 



Synopsis of the genera and species of the Procellarieae. 

 Family PRO CULL ARIDjE .-—The Petrels. 



Ohs. Longipennine natatores, with tubular nostrils, and free, imperfect, or 

 rudimentary halluces. 



Subfamily PEOCELLAEINU^ .'—The True Petrels. 



Chs. Nasal tubes united, placed on the culmen, opening horizontally for- 

 wards. 



Section PEOCELLAEIBJS:— The Stormy Petrels. 



Chs. Nasal tubes long, elevated, the nostrils separated by a thin partition. 

 Bill shorter than the head. Wings long, the second primary always longer 

 than the first; all the primaries elastic and flexible. Tail very variable in 

 shape, always long. Legs and feet more or less elongated, always slender and 

 compressed. Tibiae more or less denuded of feathers. Tarsi as long or longer 

 than the middle toe and claw. Outer toe nearly as long as the middle. 

 Hallux minute. Of small size, and very slender form. 



Group A. Legs short (for this section). Tarsus but little, if any, exceeding 

 the middle toe and claw. Tibiae denuded for but a short space. Claws com- 

 pressed, acute. Generally of dark and nearly uniform colors. 



L Tail forked. 



1. Genus Oceanodroma, Reich. Bill small, weak, compressed. Third pri- 

 mary nearly as long as the second ; first intermediate between fourth and 

 fifth ; colors variegated. 



O./wrca^a, Bp. exGmel. (P. furcata, Gm. P. orientalis,Fa.]\. Thai, cinerea, 

 Gould. Thai, furcata, Gray, et Auct. Oceanod. orientalis, Reich. 0. furcata, 



1864.] 




90 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Bp). Bluish gray, lighter beneath, passing into black around the eyes and on 

 the primaries. 



0, Hornbyi, Bp. ex Gray. [Thai. ITornbyi, Gray). Ashen gray, passing 

 into blackish on the winp^s ; with the front, cheeks, a nuchal collar, and the 

 under parts generally, white. 



2. Genus Cymochorea, Cones. (= Thalassidroma, Auct. sed non Yig.) Bill 

 comparatively large and strong. Wings much longer than in preceding genus ; 

 second primary much the longest ; first longer than fourth. Colors uniform or 

 nearly so. 



C. leucorrhoa, Cones ex Vieill. (^Proc. leucorrhoa, Vieill. T'hal. Leachiif 

 Temm. et Auct.) Fuliginous, with a white rump and crissum. 



C. melania, Cones ex Bp. (Thai, melania, Bp. nee Lawr.) Entirely fuligin- 

 ous brownish black. Total length about 9.00 inches ; wing 6.75; tail 3.90; 

 bill .60; tarsus 1.20. 



C. homochroa, Coues. {Thai, melania, Lawr. nee Bp.) Entirely brownish 

 black, with a cinereous tinge. Length about 7.25 inches; wing 5.00; tail 

 3.25; bill .50; tarsus .90. 



II. Tail cuneate. 



3. Genus Halocyptena, Cones, nov. gen. Bill about half the tarsns 

 Wings exceedingly long ; second primary longest ; third nearly equal; fourth 

 about equal to first. Tail very long. 



H. microsoma, Coues, nov. sp. Smallest known Petrel. Entirely fuliginous 

 black. Length 5.75 inches; wing 4.75! tail 2.50; bill .48 ; tarsus .90 ; mid- 

 dle toe and claw .82. 



III. Tail square, or slightly rounded. 



4. Genus Procellaria, Linn. [Emend.] ( Thalassidroma, Vig.) Bill very 

 small and short, robust ; wings and tail moderately long ; third primary 

 nearly equal to the second ; first shorter than fourth. Middle toe a little less 

 than tarsus. 



P. pelaffica, L. nee WUs. [Hydrobates pelagica, Boie. Thalassidroma pelagica. 

 Vigors et auct.) The white upper tail coverts tipped with black. 



?. P. tethys, Bp. The upper tail coverts entirely white. 



?. P. lugubris, Natterer. Somewhat larger, with a more robust bill. 



?. P. melitensis, (Schembri). 



P. nereis, Bp. ex Gould. {Thai, nereis, Gould.) Head, neck, upper part of 

 back, fuliginous brown with a cinereous hue, which, on the back, wing, and 

 tail coverts, lightens into a clear bluish ash. Primaries brownish black ; tail 

 feathers light ashen blue, deepening into black towards their tips. Beneath 

 white, with some bluish shaft lines. 



P. fasciolata, Coues ex Tschudi. (Thai, fasciolata, Tsch.) Bill, feet, head, 

 slightly rouunded tail, and underparts to the vent black. Circumanal region 

 pure white; the back rusty brown, as are the superior surfaces of the wings. 

 A whitish brown streak from the back to the bases of the primaries half an 

 inch broad. 



Group B. Legs extremely long and slender. Tarsus much exceeding the 

 middle toe and claw. Tibiae naked for a great portion of their length. Claws 

 depressed, obtuse, rounded. More or less variegated in colors. 



1. Tail slightly rounded. Tarsal scutella fused together. 



VI. Genus Ocbanites, Keys et Bias. Bill small and weak. Nasal tuoes 

 perfectly horizontal. Wing exceedingly long; second primary much the 

 longest ; first fully equal to the third ; fourth much shorter. Toes very 

 long, but only two-thirds the tarsus. Hallux exeedingly minute. 



Oceanites oceanica, (Kuhl). Proc. pelagica, Wils. nee Linn. P- oceanica, 

 Kuhl et Banks. Thai, oceanica. Gray. Thai. Wilsoni, Bp. olim. Oceanites 

 Wilsoni, Keys et Bias.; Bp. quoque, nuper. Oceanites oceanica — — — ?) 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Fuliginous brownish black, the rump and crissum white, the interdigital 

 membranes mostly yellow. 



Oceanites lineata, Bp. ex Peale. {Thai. Uneata, Peale.) Much larger than 

 0. oceanica ; the colors genera'ly similar ; but the entire Abdomen streaked 

 with black and white. Interdigital membranes wholly black. Wing 6.50 ; 

 tarsus 1.40. 



Oceanites Segethi, Coues ex Ph. et Ldbk. {Thai. Segethi, Ph. et Ldbk.) "With 

 the form and general colors of 0. lineata; but the feathers of the neck and 

 breast uniformly slaty black, and those of the abdomen and crissum entirely 

 white, as are also the upper tail coverts, including the outermost row. 



Oceanites gracilis, Coues ex Elliott. (Thalassidroma gracilis, Elliot.') Much 

 smaller than lineata; "wing 5.22; tarsus 1.20." Sooty black; the rump, 

 upper tail coverts, and middle of abdomen white. Secondary coverts mar- 

 gined with light brown. Tail black ; two outer feathers partially white. 



II. Tail more or less emarginate, sometimes nearly even. Tarsal scuttellae 

 distinct. 



A. Toes exceedingly short and stout ; their webs small and narrow. 



VII. Genus Fregktta, Bp. Bill small, short, stout at the base. Third 

 primary nearly equal to second, first longer than fourth. Fuliginous and 

 white in color. 



F. tropica, Bp. ex Gould. (Thalassidroma tropica, Gould.) Very large, 

 nearly nine inches in length ; the tail more deeply forked than in other 

 species of the genus (f inch). Fuliginous black ; the abdomen, sides, under 

 surface of wings, throat and a nuchal collar white. 



F. grallaria, Bp. ex Vieillot. (Non grallaria, Licht. Proc. fregatta, Kuhl, 

 nee Linn. Thai, leucogastra, Gould. Thai, oceanica (!) Bp. olim.) Deep 

 grayish, darkening on the wings and tail into brownish black. Middle of 

 belly, sides, and tail coverts white. Wing 6.25 inches from the carpal joint. 



F. melanogastra, Bp. ex Gould. (? Proc, fregata, Forst. nee Linn. P. gral- 

 laria, Licht, nee Vieill. Thai, melanogastra, Gould. Proc. melanogastra, 

 Schlegel. Rather smaller, but with slenderer and longer bill and feet ; and 

 the white of the abdomen divided by a longitudinal black line. 



F. Lawrencii, Bp, ex Lawr. [Thai, fregetta, Lawr. nee auct.) From the 

 South Atlantic coast of North America. Length about eight inches. Wing 

 6.00. Tail white at the base ; its terminal half and the whole of the median 

 rectrices black. 



B. Toes exceedingly long and slender, their webs broad and full. 



VIII. Genus Pelagodroma, Reich. Bill unusually long, weak, and com- 

 pressed ; the nasal tubes short, obliquely elevated. Proportions of primarie« 

 about as in Fregetta. Tail very long, scarcely emarginate, the rectrices ex- 

 ceedingly broad to their truncated tips. 



Pelagodroma fregata, Bp. ex Linn. {Proc. fregata, Linn, sed nee auct. quae 

 plerumque ad species varias generis FregettaB spectant. Proc. marina, Lath. 

 Thai, marina. Gray. Pelagodroma marina, Reich. Proc. mquorea, Soland. 

 Proc. hypoleuca, Webb et Berth.) Interdigital membranes yellow. General 

 color grayish ashy, deepening into blackish on the wings and tail. Under 

 parts with the front and a superciliary ray white. 



The present paper will be followed as soon as possible by a similar review 

 of tl^^ section Puf&neae. 



April bth. 

 Mr. Cassin in the Chair. 

 Eight members present. 

 1864.] 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



April \2th. 

 Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



T?Fenty-two members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of six new species of Uuionidas from Lake Nyassa, 

 Central Africa;" "Descriptions of six new species of Suecinea," 

 and " Descriptions of thirteen new species of Melanidse." By Isaac 

 Lea. 



"A Critical Keview of the Procellaridse, Pt. II." By E. Coues, M. D. 



The death was announced of Samuel Ashmead and William J. Tay- 

 lor, late members of the Academy. 



April \%th. 

 Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" Description of a new species of Planorbis ;" " Descriptions of five 

 new species of Lymnaea ;" " Description of two new species of Union- 

 idae from South Africa," and " Descriptions of twenty-four new species 

 of Physa." By Isaac Lea. 



"Notes of an examination of the Birds of the Group Coerebrinse," 

 etc. By John Gassin. 



April 2hth. 



Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



The following, on favorable report of the respective committees, 

 were ordered to be published : — 



Synonymy of the Species of STBEFOMATIDJE, a Family of Flaviatile MoUusca 

 inhabiting Nort^ America. 



Part 3. 

 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

 Genus SCHIZOSTOMA, Lea. 



Schizostoma, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 242, Dec. 1842, iv. p. 167, Aug. 1845. 



Philos. Trans, x. p. 67, 1847. Obs. iv. p. 41, 1847. Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci., May, 1860. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. pt. 3, p. 245, Mar., 1863. Obs. 



ix. p. 67. * 



Schizocheilus, Lea, Philos. Trans, x. p. 295, 1853. Obs. v. p. 51, 1853. 

 Gyrotoma, Shuttleworth, Mittheil, Naturforsch. Bern. p. 88, July 22, 1846. 



Adams, Genera, i. p. 305, Feb., 1854. Gray, Guide to Mollusca, i. p. 103, 



1857. Chenu, Man. de Conchyl. i. p. 293, 1859. Anthony, Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., p. 63, Feb., 1860. Binney, Check List, June, 1860. Brot, 



List, p. 27, 1862. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Melatoma, Anthony, Gray, Zool. Proc, p. 153, 1847. Woodward, Manual, p. 



131, 1851. Reeve, Conch. Icon., Mar., 1860. 

 Apella, Mighels, MSS. 



SYNOPTICAL TABLE OF SPECIES.* 



Fissure direct, narrow, and deep. Fissure oblique, short, and wide. 



1. Shell striate or ridged. 



a. Shell conical, spire lengthened, sharpli^ carinate. 



1. S. Cariniferum, Anthony. 15. S. p a g o d u m. Lea. 



S. Showalterii, Lea. 16. S. p y r a m i d a t u m, Shutt. 



2. S. c a s t a n 6 u m. Lea. 17. S.Wetumpkaense, Lea. 



S. ornata, Anth. 



S. pagoda, Lea, of Reeve. 



b. Shell conic-cylindrical ; spire obtuse, not carinate. 



3. S. voideum, Shuttleworth. 18. S. Alabamense, Lea. 



19 S. Anth ny i, Lea. 



4. S. e X c i s u m, Lea. 20. S. b a b y 1 o n i c u m, Lea. 



Spillmanii, Lea. 



c. Shell globosely-ovate, spire moderate. 



5. S. p u m i 1 u m, Lea. 21. S. B u d d i i, Lea. 



Qlobosum, Lea. S. funiculatum. Lea. 



Alabamense, Lea, of Reeve. S. pagodum, Lea, of Reeve. 



Showalterii, Lea, of Reeve. 



2. Shell smooth, 

 d. Shell elliptic. 



6. S. e 11 i p t i c u m, Anthony. 



7. S. laciniatum. Lea. 



e. Shell quadrately cylindrical. 



8. S. a m p 1 u ra, Anthony. 22. S. d e m i 3 s u m, Anth. 



9. S. n u c u 1 u m, Anthony. S. Hartmanii, Lea. 



23. S. constric turn, Lea. 

 S. rectum, Anth. 



10. S. cylindr ace um, Mighels. 24. S. s alebro sum, Anth. 



S. robuslum, Anth. 



S. rectum, Anth., of Reeve. 



f. Shell ovate, whorls obliquely flattened, spire obtuse. 



11. S. bulb o sum, Anthony. * 25. S. glandulum, Lea. 

 S. ovalis, Anthony. 26. S. i n c i s u m. Lea. 



12. S. curtum, Mighels.f S. virens, Lea. 



S. quadratum, Anthony. 

 S. obliquum, Anthony. 



13. S. g 1 a n s, Lea. 



g. Shell globose. 



14. S. 8 p h 86 r i c u m, Anthony. 



SPECIES. 



1. S. cariniferum, Anthony. 



♦ The SchizostmnsB contain two nearly equal groups, characterized respectiyely by a narrow 

 direct, and an oblique, short, wide slit. 



In the above table the opposite species in the two groups are generally exactly similar except 

 in the character of the slit I 



t Synonym of Indbostim P 



1864.] 




W PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Oyrotoma carinifera, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 66, Feb., 1860. 



Binney, Check List, No. 310. Brot, List, p. 2Y, 

 Melatoma cariniferum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Melatoma, t. 2, f. 13. 

 Schizostoma Showallerii* Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 93, Mar., 1860. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., t. 35, f. 49, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 68. 

 Gyrotoma Showallerii, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 334. Brot, List, p. 28. 



2. S. c a s t a n e u m. Lea. 



Schizostoma castaneum, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 186, May, 1860. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 50. Obs. ix. p. 69. 

 Gyrotoma castanea, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 311. Brot, List, p. 27. 



3. S. ovoideum, Shuttleworth. 



Gyrotoma ovoideum, Shuttleworth, Mittheil., Bern. Nat. Gesell., No. 50, p. 88, 

 July 22, 1845. H. & A. Adams, Genera, iii. t. 32, f. 4. 



4. S. e X c i s u m, Lea.f 



Melania excisa, Lea, Philos. Proc, p. 242, Dec, 1842. Philos. Trans, ix. 



1846. Jay, Cat., 4th edit., p. 273. 

 Schizostoma ezci^a, Lea, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 28. 

 Gyrotoma excisa, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 317. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Melatoma ezcisum. Lea, Reeve, Monog. sp. 2. 



5. S. pu miluni. Lea. 



Schizostoma pum'dum, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 187, May, 1860. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 57, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 74. 

 Gyrotoma pumila, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 328. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Schizostoma globosum,\ Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 187, May, 1860. Jonr. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 58, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 74. 

 Gyrotoma globosa, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 321. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Melatoma globosum, Lea, Reeve, Monog. t. 3, f. 18. 

 Melatoma Alabamense, Lea, of Reeve, Monog. sp. 20. 

 Melatoma Showalterii, Lea, of Reeve, Monog. sp. 23 ? 



6. S. ellipticum, Lea.§ 



Melatoma ellipticum, Anthony, MSS. Reeve, Monog., t. 3, f. 21, Apr. 1861. 

 Gyrotoma eUiptica, Anthony, Brot, List, p. 27. 



7. S. 1 a c i n i a t u m, Lea. 



Schizostoma laciniatum. Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 167, Aug., 1845. Philos. 



Trans, x. p. 69, t. 9, f. 57, 1853. 

 Gyrotoma laciniata, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 324. Brot, List, p. 27. 



8. S. am plum, Anthony. 



Gyrotoma ampla, Anthony, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 66, Feb., 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 306. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Melatoma amplum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. t. 3, sp. 16. 



9. S. n u c u 1 u m, Anthony. 



Mela'oma nueula, Anthony, MSS. Reeve, Monog. t. 3, f. 19, Apr., 1861. 

 Gyrotoma nueula, Anthony, Brot, List, p. 27. 



10. S. cy lindraceum,|| Mighels. 



Schizostoma cylindracea, Mighels, Bost. Proc. i. p. 189, Oct., 1844. 



* Mr. lleeve's flgiire 23 of Melatoma ',Shou)aUerii does not represent this species, but S.pumi- 

 lum, Leiv. 



t Mr. iV'.eve and Dr. Brot, place ovoideum, Shutt., in the synonymy of this species. As I baTC 

 no means of comparing specimens of the latter witli Mr. Lea's species, I have preferred to sep- 

 arate thoin at present. .V. liabylonicum is a larger, wider, more robust species. 



t The yount; oC pumilum. 



f Di.-itinguished from bii.Urjsun, Anth., by its more lengthened form, and by the regularly eon- 

 vex outline of the body whorl and spire. 



I I have not seen thit! species. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Oyrotoma cylindracea, Miill.,* Binney, Check List, No. 315. 

 Gyrotoma cylindracea, Gould, Brot, List, p. 27. 



11. S. b u 1 b s u m, f Anthony. 



Gyrotoma bulbosa, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 65, Feb., 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 309. Brot, List, p. 27. 



Melaloma bulbosum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. sp. 22. 



Gyrotoma oralis, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 65, Feb., 1860. Binney, 

 Check List, No. 325. Brot, List, p. 27. 



12. S. curtu m,J Mighels. 



Schizostoma curta, Mighels, Bost. Proc. i. p. 189, Oct., 1844. 

 Gyrotoma curta, Mighels, Binney, Check List, No. 314. 

 Gyrotoma curta, Gould, Brot, List, p. 27. 



13. S. glans,^ Lea. 



Schizostoma glans. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 186, May, 1860. Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 52, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 70. 

 Gyrotoma glans. Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 320. Brot, List, p. 27. 



14. S. s p h ae r i c u m, Anthony. 



Melatoma sphsericum, Anthony, MSS., Reeve, Monog. sp. 8, Apr., 1861. 



15. S. p a g o d a,|| Lea. 



Schizostoma payoda. Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 167, Aug., 1845. Philos. 



Trans., x. p. 67, t. 9, f. 52, 1853. 

 Gyrotoma payoda. Lea, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2020. Binney, Check List, 



No. 327. Brot, List, p. 27. • 



16. S. pyramidatu m,^ Shuttleworth. 



Gyrotoma pyramidatum, Shuttleworth, Mitt. Bern. Nat. Gesell., No. 50, p. 88, 

 July 22, 1845. Binney, Check List, No. 329. Brot, List, p. 27. 



17. S. Wetumpka e n se, Lea. 



Schizostoma Welumpkaense, Lea, Proc' Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 187, May, 1860. 



Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 56, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 73. 

 Gyrotoma Wetumpkaensis, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 336. Brot, List, 



p. 28. 

 Melatoma Welumpkaense, Lea, Reeve, Monog. t. 3, f. 17. 

 Melatoma ornata,** Anthony, MSS., Reeve, Monog. fig. 11. 

 Melatoma pagoda. Lea, Reeve, Monog. fig. 1, a. (not 1 b). 



18. S. A 1 a b a m e n s e,ff Lea. 



Schizostoma Alabamense, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 187, May, 1860. 



Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 54. Obs. ix. p. 72. 

 Gyrotoma Alabamensis, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 305. Brot, List, No. 27. 



19. S. An th onyi, Reeve. 



• Typographical error. 



t Uaviug examined many apecimens of btdbosum and mialis, I Gad no difference of gpeeific 

 weight. 



1 1 have not seen this species. 



J More inflated, heavier, much lighter in color, not so strongly striated, and with narrower 

 bands than :S. globosum, Auth. In a very fine specimen before me, the body whorl is disposed to 

 be tuberculate below the suture. 



(Mr. Reove figures two distinct species for this shell; his fig. 1 a. is S. Weiumplcaense, Lea, and 

 fig. 1 b. is -S'. Buddii, Lea. 



If I haye seen no authentic specimens of this species. 



»* Never published by Mr. Anthony, who sent a specimen with label attached, marked ''Proc. 

 A. N. S.," to Mr. Keevo. Mr. Reeve, misled by this reference, refers in his description to Anc. 

 orncUa, Anthony, and consequently assigns North Carolina as the habitat. No species of Schizot- 

 toma is known to exist out of Coosa lliver, Alabama. S. ornata is the young of tVetumpkaense. 



ff Mr. Reeve's figure 20, intended for this species, I refer to S. babi/lonicuni, Lea. Alabamense i» 

 distinguished from babylonicum by the regularity of its striae. 



1864.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Melatoma Anthonyi, Reeve, Monog. sp. 12, Apr., 1861. 

 Gyrotoma Anthonyi, Reeve, Brot, List, p. 27. 



20. S. babylo nicum, Lea. 



Schizostoma babylonicum, Lea, Pljilos. Proc, iv. p. 167, Aug., 1845. Philos. 



Trans, x. p. 68, t. 9, f. 54. 

 Gyrotoma babylonicum, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 307. Chenu, Manuel de 



Conchyl. i. f. 2021. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 ? Melatoma babylonicum, Lea, Reeve, Monog. sp. 6. 

 Schizostoma Spillmanii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 54, Feb., 1861. Jonr. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 55. Obs. ix. p. 72. 



21. S. Buddii, Lea.* 



Schizostoma Buddii, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 167, Aug., 1845. Philos. Trans. 



X. p. 68, t. 9, f. 53. 

 Gyrotoma Buddii, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 308. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Schizostoma funiculatum, Lea, Philos. Proc, iv. p. 167, Aug., 1845. Philos. 



Trans, x. p. 69, t. 9, f. 56. 

 Gyrotoma funiculata, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 318. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Melatoma funiculatum,\ Lea, of Reeve, Monog., sp. 5. 

 Melatoma pagoda, Lea, of Reeve, Monog., sp. 1, b. 



22. S. de mis sum, J Anthony. 



Gyrotoma demissa, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 64, Feb., 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 316. Brot, List, p. 27. 



Melatoma demissum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog., sp. 9. 



Schizostoma Hartmanii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 187, May, 1860. Jour. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 51. Obs. ix. p. 69. 



Gyrotoma Hartmanii, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 322. Brot, List, p. 27. 



23. S. constrictu m,§ Lea. 



Schizostoma constrictum, Lea, Philos. Proc, iv. p. 167, Aug., 1845. Philos. 



Trans., x. p. 68, t. 9, f. 55. 

 Gyrotoma constricta, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 302. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Gyrotoma recta, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 64, Feb. 1860. Binney, 



Check List, No. 331. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Melatoma rectum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. sp. 10, not sp. 7, a. 



24. S. sale bro su m, II Anthony. 



Gyrotoma salebrosa, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 66, Feb., 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 333. 



Melatoma salebrosum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. sp. 8 and 15. 



Gyrotoma robusta, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 67, Feb., 1860. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 332. Brot, List, p. 28. 



Melatoma robustum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. sp, 14, a, b. 



Melatoma rectum, Anthony, of Reeve, Monog. sp. 7, a. 



25. S. g 1 a n d u 1 a,^ LeaJ 



Schizostoma glandula. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 187, 1860. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 53, Mar., 1863. Obs. ix. p. 71. 

 Gyrotoma glandula, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 319. Brot, List, p. 27. 



• Mr. Reeve's figure (3) of this speecies is a Ooniobasis Imta, Jay. 



tThis figure does not so well represent funiculatum as fig. 1, b, intended for S. pagoda. 



j Mr. Lea, (.Tour. Acad. Nat. Sci., v. pt. 3), makes this species to equal his S. conslrictum. I do 

 not consider them the same; constrictum is longer and narrower, 



g Mr. Reeve's figure 7, a, represents rather a sf^.Doth variety of saUbrostim, Anth, 



II In a large number of specimens before me, the distinctive features of saJ«fcro,w;>i Anirdbustum 

 become so completely and insensibly merged together that I cannot separate them, and believe 

 them to be identical. 



^ Closely allied to S. incimm, but may be distinguished by being heavier, of different color, 

 higher spire, and more convex outline. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9T 



26. S. i n c i s u m,* Lea. 

 Anculosa [Schizostoma) incisa, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 243, Dec, 1842. 



Philos. Trans, ix. p. . 



Schizostoma incisa, Lea, Wheatley, Cat. Shells, U. S. p. 28. Hanley, Conch, 



Misc. Melania, t. 5, f. 44, 45. 

 Gyrotoma incisa, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 323. Brot, List, p. 27. 

 Melatoma incisum, Lea, Reeve, Monog. sp. 4. 

 Melania incisa, Lea, Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 274. 

 Leptoxis incisa, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 363. Haldeman, Monog. p. 2, 



t. 1, f. 24—26. 

 Oyrotoma quadrata, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 65, Feb., 1860. 



Binney, Check List, No. 330. 

 Melatoma quadratum, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. fig. 7, b, (not 7 a, or 8). 

 Schizostoma virens, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 187, 1860. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., V. pt. 3, t. 35, f. 59. Obs. ix. p. 75. 

 Gyrotoma virens, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 335. Brot, List, p. 28. 

 Gyrotoma obliqua, Anthony, MSS. 



Species unknown to me. 



Gyrotoma conica, Shuttleworth, (ubi) Brot, List, p. 27. 



Zd Section : aperture entire and rounded below. 



Genus ANCULOSA, Say. 



Anculosa, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii. p. 178, Nov. 1821. Conrad, Am. Jour. 

 Sci. XXV. p. 342, 1834. Muller, Syn. Test. Viv. p. 39, 1836. Swainson, 

 Manual Malacol. 1840. Haldeman, Suppl. to Monog. Limniades, Oct. 

 1840. Sowerby, Conch. Manual, Edit. 2, p. 66, 1842. Wheatley, Cat. 

 Shells U. S. p. 27, 1845. Lea, Philos. Trans, ix. p. 14, 1846. Anthony, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 67, Feb. 1860. 



Anculosa, Conrad, Herraannson Indices Gener. Malac. i. p. 51, 1846. 



Anculotus, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci.,v. pt. 1, p. 128, Aug. 1825. Conrad, New 

 Fresh Water Shells, p. 62, 1834. Couthuoy, Bost. Jour. ii. p. 184, Feb. 

 1839. Anthony, Bost. Jour., iii. p. 278, Jan. 1840. DeKay, Moll. N. York, 

 p. 101, 1843. Chenu, Bibl. Conch, i. iii. Conrad, p. 26, 1845. Gray, Ge- 

 nera, Zool. Proc. XV. p. 153, 1847. Woodward, Manual, i. p. 131, 1851. 

 Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 276, 1852. Reeve, Conch. Iconica, Sept. 1860. 



Ancylotus, Say, Hermannson, Indices. Gen. Mai. i. p. 51, 1846. 



?f Leptoxis, Rafinesque, Journ. de Phys. Ixxxviii. p. 424, 1819. Haldeman, Mo- 

 nog. Lept. H. & A. Adams, Genera, i. p. 307, Feb. 1854. Chenu, Man. 

 de Conchyl. i. p. 294, 1859. Binney, Check List, p. 10, June, 1860. Brot, 

 List, p. 23, 1862. 



Mudalia, Haldeman, Suppl. to Monog. Limn., Oct. 1840. 



Nitocris, H. & A. Adams, Genera, i. p. 308, Feb. 1854. 



1. Nodulous species. 



1. A. A nth nyi, Budd. 



Anculosa Anthonyi, Budd, Redfield, Ann. Lye. N. Hist., vi. p. 130, t. 1, f. 6, 



Apr., 1854. 

 Leptoxis Anthonyi, (Budd) Redfield, Brot, List, p. 23. Binney, Check List, 



No. 341. 

 Anculotus Anthonyi, (Budd) Redfield, Reeve, Monog. Anc. t. 2, f. 17. 



2. A. p 1 i c a t a, Conrad. 



Anculotus plicatus, Conrad, New Fresh water Shells, p. 61, t. 8, f. 18, 1834. 



* Mr. Lea, (Obs. ix. p. 67), considers quadratum, Anth., to be a synonym of his S. incisum, in 

 which decision I entirely agree with him. To these I unite S. virens, Lea, which 1 find to be the 

 young shell of the same species. 



1864.] 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DeKay, Moll. N. York, p. 103. Jay, Catalogue, 4th Edit., p. 276. Reeve, 



Monog. t. 3, f. 22. 

 Anculosn plicata, Conrad, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Leptoxis plicata, Conrad, Binney, Check List, No. 379. Haldeman, Monog. 



Lept., p. 3, t. 2, f. 35—39. 

 Anculosa bella, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 83, Oct., 1841. Wheatley, Cat. Shells 



■ U. S., p. 28. 

 Anculosa tuberculata, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 83, Oct., 1841. Phil. Trans., 



ix. p. 21. Obs., iv. p. 21. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. Binney, 



Check List, No. 392. 

 Anculotus Smaragdinus, Reeve, Monog. t. 3, f. 23, Apr., 1860. 



2. Sulcale species. 



3. A. Show alt e rii. Lea. 



Anculosa Showalterii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 93, 1860. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., 2d Ser., v. pt. 3, p. 255, t. 35, f. 62, Mar., 1863. Obs., ix. p. 



11, t. 35, f. 62. 

 Leptoxis Showalterii, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 385. Brot, List, p. 25. 

 Anculotus sulcosus, Anthony, MSS., Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 6, f. 44, 



Apr., 1861. 

 Leptoxis sulcosa, Anthony, Brot, List, p. 26. 



4. A. c a n a 1 i f e r a, Anthony. 



Anculosa canalifera, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 68, Feb., 1860. 

 Anculotus canaliferus, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 5, f. 39. 

 Leptoxis canalifera, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 345. Brot, List, p. 24. 



3. Striate species. 



5. A. 1 i 1 1 r i n a, Haldeman. 



Anculosa littorina, Haldeman, Spec. Number of Monog. Cover of No. 1, Mo- 

 nog., July, 1840. 



Leptoxis littorina, Haldeman, Monog. Lept., p. 4, t. 4, f. 110. Binney, Check 

 List, No. 368. Brot. List, p. 24. 



Melania pilula, Lea, Philos. Proc, ii. p. 15, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., viii. 

 p. 186, t. 6, f. 50. Obs., iii. p. 24, t. 6, f. 50. DeKay, Moll. N. York, 

 p. 99. Troost, Cat. Moll. Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 204. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc, p. 188. 



6. A. c s t a t a,* Anthony. 



Anculotus costatus, Anthony, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., iii. p. 278, t. 3, f. 1, Jan., 

 1840. DeKay, Moll. N. York, p. 102, t. 7, f. 139. Reeve, Monog. Ancu- 

 lotus, t. 5, f. 41. 



Ancul'jsa costata, Anthony, List of Shells of Cincinnati, 2d Edit. Wheatley, 

 Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 



Leptoxis costata, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 349. 



Melania occidentulis, Lea, Philos, Proc, ii. p. 12, Feb., 1841. Philos. Trans., 

 viii. p. 172, t. 5, f. 20. Obs., iii. p. 10, t. 5, f. 20. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., 

 p. 95. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 274. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 184. Catlow, Conchologist's Nomenc, p: 188. 



7. A. rubiginosa. Lea. 



Anculosa rubigmosa. Lea, ii. p. 83, Oct., 1841. Philos. Trans., ix. p. 20. 



Obs., iv. p. 20. 

 Anculotus rubiginosus, Lea, Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 276. Reeve, Monog. An- 



cul., t. 2, f. 12, t. 6, f. 47. 



• * If. occidentalis. Lea, is the mature form, and costata the young, of this species. Thev are not 

 identical with trilineata, Say, as supposed by Prof. Haldeman. The latter species is not found in 

 •the upper Ohio, where costata abounds. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



Leptoxis rub'ffinosa, Lea, Haldeman, Monog. Lept., f. 59 to tO. Binney, 



Check List, No. 383. Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2035, 2036. 

 Anculo&a Griffiihiami^ Lea, Philos. Pioc, ii. p. 83. Oct., 1841. Philos. Trans., 



ix. p. 20. Obs , iv. p. 20 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Anculohis Griffiihxianua^ Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 1, f . 8. 

 ■ Laptoxls GriJJi'Jdana, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 362. 



4. Angulated species. 

 8. A. d i s s i m i 1 i s, Say. 



Paludina dissimib's, Say, Nicholson's Encyc, 3d Am. Edit., 1819. 

 Anculotus dissimilis, Say, Ravenel, Cat., p. 11. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 276. 



Reeve, Monog. Ancul. t. 4, f. 27. 

 Anculosn dissimilis, Say, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. Haldeman, in 



Ruppell's Lancaster County, p. 479. 

 Leptoxis dissimilis, Say, Haldeman, Monog. Lept., p. 4, t. 4, f. 85 — 100. Brot, 



List, p. 24. Binney, Check List, No. 355. 

 Helix subcarinata, Wood, Index, Test. Lister, t. Ill, f. 5. 



Anculotus carinatus, DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 101, 1843. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., 



p. 276. 

 Anculosa earinata, DeKay, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Leptoxis earinata, DeKay, Binney, Check List, No. 343. Brot, List, p. 24. 



Variety a. 



Anculosa earinata, Lea, Proc. Philos., ii. p. 34, Apr., 1841. Philos. Trans., 



ix. p. 15. Obs. ir. p. 15. ^ 



Leptoxis earinata, Lea, Binney, Check List^ No. 344. 

 Anculosa, variabilis, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 34, Apr. 1841. Philos. Trans. 



ix. p. 15. Obs. iv. p. 15. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 28. 

 Leptoxis variabilis, Lea, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2037 — 39. Binney, Check List, 



No. 394. Brot, List, p. 26. Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, p. 4, t. 4, f. 



102—9. 



Variety b. 



Anculotus nigrescem, Conrad, New Fresh Water Shells, p. 64, t. 8, f. 17, 1834. 



DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 102. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S. p. 28. Jay, 



Cat., 4th Edit. p. 276. 

 Leptoxis nigrescens, Conrad, Binney, Check List, No. 372. 

 Anculotus trivittatus, DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 102, t. 7, f. 137, 1843. 

 Leptoxis trivittata, DeKay, Binney, Check List, No. 390. 



Variety c, 



Anculotus movodontoides, Conrad, New Fresh-Water Shells, p. 61, t. 8, f. IG, 

 1834. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 102. Jay, Gat., 4th Edit., p. 276. Wheat- 

 ley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. Reeve, Monog. Anc. t. 5, f. 37. 



Mudalia monodontoides, Conrad, Chenu, Manuel, i. f. 2046 — 8. 



Leptoxis monodontoides, Conrad, Haldeman. Monog. Leptoxis, p. 5, t. 4, 5 f. 

 .124—133. Binney Check List, No. 370. 



Anculotus dentatus, Couthuoy, Am. Journ. Sci. xxxvi. p. 390, July, 1839. 

 Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist. ii. p. 185, t. 4, f. 7, Feb. 18:^9. Reeve, Monog. 

 Anc. t. 5, f. 36. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 102. Jay, Cat., 3d Edit., p. 63. 



Anculosa dentata, Couthuoy, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 



Leptoxis dentata, Couthuoj', Binney, Check List, No. 352. 



Anculosa dentata, Lea, Philos Proc. ii. p. 34, Apr. 1841. 



Leptoxis dentata. Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 353. 



Anculosa {Mudalia) affmis, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, Cover of No. 3, 

 Mar. 13th, 1841. 



Anculotus affinis, Haldeman, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 6, f. 53. 



Leptoxis affinis, Haldeman, Binney, Check List, No. 337. Brot, List, p. 23. 



1864.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF ' 



9. A. d i 1 at at a,* Conrad. 



Melania dilatata, Conrad, New Fresh-Water Shells, Appendix, p. 6, t. 9, f. 5, 



1834. 

 Anculotus dilatatus, Conrad, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 5, f. 38. 

 Anculosa dilatata, Conrad, Am. Journ. Science, n. s., i. p. 407. Hanley, 



Conch. Misc. t. 5, f. 38. 

 Mudalia dilatata, Conrad, Chenu, Manuel de Conchyl. i. f. 2043 — 5. 

 Leptoxis dilatata, Conrad, Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, p. 4, t. 4, f. Ill— 



120. Binney, Check List, No. 354. Brot, List, p. 24. 

 Melania Rogersii,-f Conrad, New Fresh- Water Shells, Appendix, p. 7, t. 9, 



f. 7, 1834. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 274. . ,. - , ^ 



Anculotus Rogersii, Conrad, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 4, f. 28. 

 Leptoxis Rogersii, Conrad, Binney, Check List, No. 382. 

 Anculotus carinatus, Anthony, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., iii. pt. 3, p. 394, t. 3, 



f. 5, July, 1840. Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 5, f. 42. 

 Leptoxis carinatd, Anthony, Binney, Check Liot, No. 342. 

 Anculotus Kirtlandianus, Anthony, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., iii. pt. 3, p. 



295, t. 3, f. 4, July, 1840. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 276. Reeve, Monog. 



Anculotus, t. 4, f. 29. 

 Anculosa Kirtlandiana , Haldeman, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Melania ivjlata, Lea, Philos. Trans, vi. p. 17, t. 23, f. 98. Obs. ii. p. 17. 



Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25, Binney, Check List, No. 147. 

 Leptoxis rapceformis, Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, p. 4, t. 4, f. 123. Brot, 



List, p. 25. . 



10. A. corpulenta,J Anthony. 



Anculosa corpulenta, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 68, Feb. 1860. 

 Anculotus corpulentus, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 1, f. 9. 

 Leptoxis corpulenta, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 348. Brot, List, 

 p. 24. 



11. A. m e 1 a n i d e s, Conrad. 



Anculotus melanoides, Conrad. New Fresh- Water Shells, p. 64, t. 8, f. 19, 



1834. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 102. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 26, 



Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 6, f. 48. 

 Leptoxis melanoides, Conrad, Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, p. 5, t. 5, f. 145, 



146. Binney, Check List, No. 369. 

 Anculosa (Mudalia) turgida, Haldeman, Supplement to No. 1, Monog. Lim- 



niades, Oct. 1840. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Leptoxis turgida, Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, p. 5, t. 5, f. 151. Binney, 



Check List, No. 393. Brot, List, p. 26. 



5. Shell smooth, globose, or flattened above. 



12. A. tr Hi neat a. Say. 



Melania trilineata. Say, New Harmony Dissem., No. 18, p. 227, Sept. 9, 

 1829. Say's Reprint, p. 19, 1840. Binney's Edition, p. 144. Catlow, 

 Conch. Nomenc. p. 189. 



Anculosa trilineata. Say, DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 100. Wheatley, Cat/ Shells 

 U. S., p. 27. Jay, Cat. Shells, 3d Edit., p. 62. 



Anculotus trilineatus. Say, Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 276. Reeve, Monog. An- 

 culotus, t. 5, f. 41, b. 



Leptoxis trilineata. Say, Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, p. 5, t. 5, f. — . Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 389. Brot, List, p. 26. 



♦ I had at flrnt united this to dissimilis, and I am yet doubtful whether it is really distinct from 

 that protean ppeciea. 



■(■ Young of dilntata. In placing all these specific names together as synonyms, I am sustained 

 by the decisions of Mr. Lea, (Philos. Trans, viii. p. 171,) Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, and Anthony, 

 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. i. p. 5. 



J Most nearly allied to the heary, ohaoletely angtilated form of distimilis. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 101 



Variety. 

 Melania viridis* Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans., . 

 viii.p. 172, t. 5, f. 19. Obs. ii. p. 12. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 95. 

 Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. Binney, Check List, No. 292. Cat- 

 low, Conch. Nomenc. p. 189, 



13. A. subglobosa, Say. 

 Melania subglobosa, Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. v. p. 128, Sept. 1825. Bin- 

 ney's edit. p. 116. Binney, Check List, No. 254. Catlow, Conch. No- 

 menc. p. 188. Jay, Cat. 3d Edit., p. 62. 

 Anculotus subglobosus, Say, Conrad, New Fresh- Water Shells, p. 60, t. 8, f. 



14. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 103. Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 1, f. 10. 

 Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 276. 



Anculosa subglobosa, Say, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 



Leptoxis subglobosa, Say, Haldoman, Monog. p. 3, t. 2, f. 40—58. Chenn, 



Manuel' de Conohyl. i. f. 2040—42. Binney, Check List, No. 387. Brot, 



List, p. 25. 

 Melania subglobosa, Lea, Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn., p. 42. 

 Anculosa gibbosa, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 34, Apr. 1841. Philos. Trans, ix. p. 



15. Obs. iv. p. 15. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Anculotus gibbosus. Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 1, f. 3. 

 Leptoxis gibbosa, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 361. Brot, List, p. 25. 

 Melania globula,^ Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 12, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans. 



viii. p. 174, t. 5, f. 22. Obs. iii. p. 12. DeKay, Moll. N Y., p. 95. 

 Troost, Cat. Shells, Tennessee. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 25. 

 Binney, Check List, No. 126. Catlow, Gonch. Nomenc. p. 187. 



Variety. 



Anculosa tintinnabulumX, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 167, Aug. 1845. Philos. 



Trans, x. p. 67, t. 9, f. 51. Obs. iv. p. 67. 

 Anculotus tintinnabulum. Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 2, f. 13. a, b. ? 

 Melania virgata,^ Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 13, Feb. 1841. Philos. Trans. 



viii. p. 175, t. 5, f. 25. Obs. iii. p. . DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 95. 



Troost, Cat. Shells Tenn. Binney, Check List, No. 290. Catlow, 



Conch. Nomenc. p. 189. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. 



14. A. p r a 6 r s a. Say. 



Melania prcerosa, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. ii. p. 177, Jan. 1824. Binney's 



Edit., p. 70. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 188. Sowerby, Conch. Man. 



f. 314. 

 Anculotus prcerosus. Say, Conrad, New Fresh- Water Shells, p. 59, t. 8, f. 13. 



Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 276. Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 2, f, 15, 16. 

 Anculotus prcemorsa. Say, Woodward, Manuel, t. 8, f. 28. 

 Anculosa prcerosa, Say, Ravenel, Cat. p. 11. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., 



p. 28. Anthony, List, 1st and 2nd Edits. Kirtland, Rep. Zool. Ohio, 



p. 174. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 103. 



* Iji treatins; viridis as a synonym of trilineata, I agree with the opinions expre.ssed by Messrs. 

 Haldeinan, Brot, Binney and Anthony. The two former gentlemen, together with Dr. .Jay, con- 

 sider costaius, Anthony, and occidmtalis. Lea, as synonyms also. In this opinion I cannot coin- 

 cide. The two species appear to me to be well separate I by the costse of Mr. Anthony's species, 

 and the uniformly smootli surface ot trilineatus. Mr. Reeve's figure of triline,atus is very poor ; 

 the bands are so represented as to appear like ribs. 



It is by no means certain that trilineata is an Anculosa. Its general appearance suggests affini- 

 ties with the Amnicolidse, to which family several small species, hitherto considered to be Ancu- 

 losse, have been recently removed. It dififors from all the Amnicolse, however, in its colored bands. 



Mr. Lea's M. viridis is the Var. B. of Mr. Say's description of trilineata. 



t Juvenile shell. ? 



X Distinguished by possessing three brown bands or rows of maculations. It is a beautiful 

 variety. 



g i' oung shell of var. tintinnabulum. 



1864] 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Lci^toxis preerosa, Say, Haldeman, Monog. Lept. p. 2, t. 1, f. 1—18. Chenn, 



Manuel, i. f, 2030—34. Binney, Check List, No. 380. Brot, List, 

 » p. 25. 



Melania angnlosa*, Menke, Syn. Meth., 1st Edit., p. 81, 1828. 2nd Edit. 



p. 135, 1830. Binney, Check List, No. 15. 

 Melania cruentata, Menke, Syn. Meth., 1st Edit., p. 80, 1828. 2nd Edit. 



■ p. 134, 1830. 

 Meloniu oindaris, Menke, Syn. Meth., 1st Edit., p. 80. 2nd Edit. p. 134. 



Binney, Check List, No. 194. 

 Melanopsis neritiformis, Deshayes, Encyc. Meth. Vers. ii. p. 438, No. 14. 



Anim. Sans. Vert., 2nd Edit., viii. p. 492, 1838. 

 Anculotus angulatus,] Conrad, New Fresh- Water Shells, p. 60, t. 8, f. 15, 



1S34. Dekay, Moll. N. Y., p. 102. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 27. 



Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 6, f. 51. Jay, Cat. Shells, 4th Edit., p. 



276. 

 Leptoxis angulata, Conrad, Binney, Check List, No. 340. 

 Melania Cincinnaliensist, Lea, Piiilos. Proc. i. p. ()6, Dec. 1838. Philos. 



Trans, viii. p. 190, t. 6, f. 58. Obs. iii. p. 28. Jay, Cat. 4th Edit., p. 



273. Catlow, Conch. Nomenc. p. 186. 

 Anculotus Cincinnatiensis, Lea. DeKay, Moll. N. Y., p. 95. Troost, Cat. 



Shells Tenn. 

 Leptoxis Cincinnatiensis, Lea, Binney, Check List, No_. 346. 



15. A. eras 8 a, Haldeman. 



Anculosa crassa, Haldeman, Monog. Limniades, No. 4, p. 3 of Cover, Oct. 



5, 1841. I 



Anculotus crassus, Haldeman, Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 276. Reeve, Monog. 



Anculotus, t. 2, f. 14. 

 Leptoxis crassa, Haldeman, Monog. Lept. p. 2, t. 1, f. 19 — 23. Binney, 



Check List, No. 350. Brot, List, p. 24. 



16. A. tseniata,! Conrad, 



Anculotus tieniatus, Conrad, New Fresh-Water Shells, p. 63, 1834. DeKay, 

 Moll. N. Y., p. 103. Jay, Cat., 4th Edit., p. 276. Reeve, Monog. An- 

 culotus, t. 6, f. 50, non t. 2, f. 15. 



Anculosa tceniuta, Conrad, Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 



Leptoxis tieniata, Conrad, Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, t. 3, f. 71 — 73. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 388. Brot, List, p. 26. 



Anculosa cooscEnsis,\\ Lea, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. p. 54, 1861. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt.3, p. 257, t. 30, f. 65, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 76. 



17. A. T r o o s t i a n a. Lea, 



Anculosa Troostiana, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 34. Philos. Trans, ix. p. 15. 



Obs. iv. p. 15. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Anculotus Troostianus, Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 4, f. 30. 

 Leptoxis Troostiana, Lea, Haldeman, Monog. Leptoxis, p. 4, t. 3, f. 81. 



Binney, Check List, No. 391. Brot, List, p. 26. 



18. A. pin gui s, Lea. 



Melania pinguis, Philos. Trans, x. p. 301; t. 30, f. 11. Obs. v. p. 57. Bin- 

 ney, Check List, No. 206. Brot, List, p. 40. Reeve, Monog. Melania, 

 sp. 355. 



* Tha various Jescriptiona by Meuko and Uosbayesall certainly belong to this 8pecic8, as Messrs. 

 llalileman and Anthony long ago decide 1. 



f This is a half grown shell which still retains the angle on the periphery in Alabama, while, in 

 specimens of in)ri; northern locarioii, it is only visible in the quite young. 



J Undoubtedly the quite young shell ol prierosa. 



^Intermediate in foiui buiween rubiyinosj, a,\xii prmrosa and distinguished by its elongated body 

 wiiorl, concavely flattened around its upper half. 



\ Young yhell. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lt)8 



19. A. p is um, Haldeman. 



LeptoTis pisum, Haldeman, Monog. Lept. p. 4, t. 3, f. 82. Binney, Check ^ 

 List, No. 378. Brot, List, p. 25. 



20. A. c n t o r t a, Lea. 



Anculosa contorta, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 187, 1860. Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 258, t. 35, f. 66, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 80. 

 Leptoxis contorta, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 347. Brot, List, p. 24. 



21. A. vittata, Lea. 



Anculosa vittata, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 188, 1860. Jour. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 256, t, 35, f. 63, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 78. 

 Lfptoxis vittata, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 397. Brot, List, p. 26. 



22. A. p 1 a n s p i r a, Anthony. 



Melania planospira, Anthony, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vi. p. 123, t. 3, 

 f. 24, Mar. 1854. Binney, Check List, No. 208. Brot, List, p. 40. 

 Hanley, Conch. Misc. Melania, t. 8, f. 67. 



Anculotus planospira, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 2, f. 11. 



23. A. a m p 1 a, Anthony. 



Anculosa ampla, Anthony, Ann. N. Y., Lye. Nat. Hist. vi. p. 159, t. 5, f. 



22, 23. 

 Leptoxis ampla, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 339. Brot, List, p. 23. 



Variety a. 



Anculosa elegans, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 69, Feb. 1860. 

 Anculotus elegans, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 6, f. 49. 

 Leptoxis elegans, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 356. Brot, List, p. 24. 



Variety b. 



Anculosa formosa. Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 187, 1860. Jour. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 254, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 76. 

 Leptoxis formosa, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 358. Brot, List, p. 24. 



24. A. zeb r a,* Anthony. 



Anculosa zebra, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 69, Feb. 1860. 



Anculotus zebra, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. t. 6, f. 52. 



Leptoxis zebra, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 398. Brot, List, p. 26. 



25. A. p i c t a, Conrad. 



Anculosa picta, Conrad, Am. Jour. Science, 1st Ser., xxx. p. 342, t. 1, f. 15, 



Jan. 1834. Wheatley, Cat. Shell U. S., p. 28. Hanley, Conch. Misc. 



Melania, t. 5, f. 39. 

 Anculotus pictus, Cowreidi, T^ew Fresh- Water Shells, p. 62, 1834. Reeve, 



Monog. Anculotus, t. 3, f. 20. Jay, Cat. 4th Edith,, p. 276. DeKay, 



Moll. N. Y., p. 103. 

 Leptoxis picta, Conrad, Haldeman, Monog. Lept. t. 3, f. 74 — 80. Binney, 



Check List, No. 377. Brot, List, p. 25. 

 Anculosa Foremani, Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 243, Dec. 1842. Philos. Trans. 



ix. p. 29. Obs. iv. p. 29. Wheatley, Cat. Shells U. S., p. 28. 

 Leptoxis Foremani, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 359. 

 Anculosa flammata. Lea, Philos. Proc. ii. p. 243. Philos. Trans, ix. p. 30. 



Obs. iv. p. 30. 

 Anculotus flammatus. Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 3, f. 18. 

 Leptoxis Jlammata, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 357. 



• Differs in form from picta, Con., but so much resembles in coloring the Tariety flammata, 

 described by Jkli\ Lea, that I doubt whether it is distinct. 



1864.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



26. A. r n a t a, Anthony, 



Anculosa ornata, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 67, Feb. 1860. 

 Anculotus ornatus, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 3, f. 24. 

 Leptoxis ornata, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 375. 



27. A. L e w i s i i, Lea. 



Anculosa LewisH, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 54, 1861. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. V. pt. 3, p. 257, t. 35, f. 64, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 79. 



28. A. s q u a 1 i d a, Lea. 



Anculosa sgualida, Lea, Philos. Proc. iv. p. 167, Aug. 1845. Philos. 



Trans, x. p. 66, t. 9, f. 50. Obs. iv. p. 66. 

 Anculotus squalidus. Lea, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 3, f. 26 ? * 



Leptoxis sgualida, Lea, Binney, Check List, No. 386. Brot, List, p. 25. 



29. A. p a t u 1 a, Anthony. 



Anculosa patula, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. p. 68, Feb. 1860. 

 Anculotus patulus, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 4, f. 32. 

 Leptoxis patula, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 376. Brot, List, p. 25. 



30. A. v i r i d u 1 a,* Anthony. 



Anculosa viridula, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 68, Feb. 1860. 

 Anculotus viridulus, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 4, f. 34. 

 Leptoxis viridula, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 396. 



31. A. hum e ros a, ? Anthony. 



Paludina humerosa, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 71, 1860. 



32. A. 1 i g a t a,t Anthony. 



Anculosa ligata, Anthony, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. p. 67, Feb. 1860. 

 Anculotus ligatus, Anthony, Reeve, Monog. Anculotus, t. 3, f. 19. 

 Leptoxis ligata, Anthony, Binney, Check List, No. 367. Brot, List, p. 24. 



33. A. t u r b i u a t a. Lea. 



Anculosa turbinata. Lea, Pi'oc. Acad. Nat. Sci. p. 54, 1861. Jour. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. V. pt. 3. p. 254, Mar. 1863. Obs. ix. p. 76. 



Doubtful and Spurious Species. 



A, {Paludina") nucha. Lea, = Amnicola. 

 A, (Paludina) virens, Lea, = Amnicola. 

 A. Spixiaaa, Lea, Reeve and Brot, = Angitrema. 

 A. incisa. Lea, Haldeman, Monog., = Schizostoma. 



A. cingenda, Anthony, MSS., = young of camafa. Lea, a variety oidissimilis. 

 A. planulata. Lea, Wheatley, Cat. Shells, p. 28, Alabama, (desc. not pub- 

 lished.) = ampla, Anth. ? 

 ? Mel. carinata,Ra.venel, Cat. p. 11, Yadkin River, N. C. 

 ? Mel. costata, Ravenel, Cat. p. 11, Dan River, Ya,. = dissimilis.f 

 ? A. subcarinata, Ravenel, Cat. p. 11, Susquehannah, = dissimilis. ? 

 A, integ7-a,Ss.j^, = Somatogyra. 

 A. subglobosa, Say, = Somatogyra. 

 A. (Paludina) altilis, Lea, = Somatogyra. 

 Paludina altilis, Ravenel. = Somatogyra, 



* Mr. Reeve thinks this =Rogersii, Conr., and Dr. Brot believes it to be dilatata, Conr. Although 

 it approaches very closely to dilatata, it !-• a distinct species. It occurs also in North Carolina. 



t Close to Coosansis, Lea, {tieniata, Conr.) but is more constricted, has three bands only, and is not 

 maculate. It is stouter and more conical. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 106 



New Species of MOBDELLISTENA collected in Illinois. 

 BY CHAS. A, HELMUTH, M. D. 



A. Hind tibiae with two oblique, parallel, equal ridges. 



a. First joint of hind-tarsi with two, second with one ridge. 

 M. NiGRiooLLis. Body black, head rufous, thorax entirely black ; anterior 

 feet and middle tibiae and tarsi testaceous ; posterior feet and abdomen tinj2;ed 

 with testaceous ; elytra with two yellow bands, the anterior one interrupted at 

 the suture ; "08. (an Var. M. trifasciatce ?) 



M. DiMiDiATA. Fuscous, linear ; head, thorax, antennae, anus, anterior and 

 middle feet, and posterior tibiae and tarsi reddish-yellow, ridges black ; elytra 

 fuscous, with light-brown pubescence, suture and lateral margin very narrowly 

 piceous ; -09. 



M. BiPLAGiATA. Black ; elytra with a reddish-yellow oval humeral spot ; 

 basal joints of antennae, palpi, tibiae, tarsi and abdomen reddish, ridges black; 

 •13. 



6. First and second joints of hind-tarsi each with two ridges. 

 M. BipusTULATA. Black, mouth, front, two small spots on the apical margin 

 of the thorax and anterior feet reddish-yellow ; pubescence light-brown seri- 

 ceous ; '09. 



c. First joint of hind-tarsi with three, second with two ridges. 

 M. EUBRiLABKis. Black ; linear ; mouth rufous, -13. 



B. Hind tibiae with two parallel ridges, the anterior one extending almost 



across the outer face of the tibiae. 



a. First joint of hind-tarsi with two, second with one ridge. 



M. piciLABKis. Black ; pubescence grayish ; mouth and basal joints of an- 

 tennae piceous, '08. 



b. First joint of hind tarsi with three, second with two ridges. 



M. GUTTULATA. Black ; mouth piceous ; elytra with numerous spots of cine- 

 reous pubescence ; '11. 



C. Hind tibiae with three short, oblique, parallel ridges, and a rudiment of a 



fourth one. 

 a. First joint of hind tarsi with three, second with two ridges. 

 M. scALARis. Black ; mouth, anterior feet, and four basal joints of antennae 

 piceous ; pubescence grayish-brown ; thorax with three black clouds, each 

 elytron with a very undulated band before the middle, beginning near the 

 lateral margin and joining that of the other side at the scutellum, and a large 

 oblong spot near the apex fuscous ; -l?. 



D. Hind tibiae with four ridges. 



a. First joint of hind tarsi with four, second and third each with three 

 ridges. 



M. Fusco-ATRA. Very slender ; dark fuscous ; four basal joints of antennae, 

 anterior and middle feet piceous ; pubescence brown-sericeous ; '14. 



b. First joint of hind tarsi with five, second with three ridges. 



M. suTuiiELLA. Black ; pubescence of head and thorax brownish, of elytra 

 black, with the suture narrowly gray ; -ll. 



c. First joint of hind tarsi with five, second with three, third with two 

 ridges. 



M. EUFivENTRis. Black ; pubescence of head and thorax brownish, of elytra 

 black, with the suture narrowly gray ; abdomen rufous, varied with black ; 

 •20. 



1864.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Descriptions of New Species of Birds of the Families CJEBEBI02:, TAN- 

 AGRID^, ICTERID^, and SC0L0PACID2E. 



BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE. 



Fam. CJEREBID^. 

 Dacnis ultramarina. 



D csereblcolor, Lawr. nee. Scl., Ann., N. Y. Lye. Vol. vii,, p. 291. 



Male. General color ultramarine blue, lores, chin, throat, middle of back, 

 wings and tail black ; the black on the throat dull in color ; the wing coverts, 

 quills and central tail feathers margined with ultramarine blue ; bill black, 

 the base of the under mandible below flesh color; iris brown ; tarsi and toes 

 reddish yellow. 



Length 4f in. ; wing 2|; tail 1| ; bill \ ; tarsi 9-16. 



The female is yellowish green, with the front, part of the crown and sides 

 of the head bluish ; throat ashy; the under plumage lighter green, the middle 

 of the abdomen yellowish. 



Habitat. New Granada, Isthmus of Panama. 



In distribution of colors this species closely resembles cserehicolor Scl., 

 and cayana ; it is, however, lighter in color than the first, and darker than the 

 last; it differs from both in the black not extending behind the eye, in the 

 dull color^of the black spot on the throat, which in the others is of a deep 

 black and more clearly defined ; cserehicolor is purple blue, and cayana 

 greenish or verditer blue. 



Fam. TANAGRID^. 

 Saltatoe intermedius. 



S. magnus, Lawr. nee. Gm., Ann., N. Y. Lye. Vol. vii. p. 297. 



Male. Upper plumage yellowish olive green ; the front and top of the 

 head intermixed with bluish cinereous ; a white stripe from the bill over the 

 eye ; sides of the head bluish cinereous ; tail of the same color as the upper 

 plumage; quills brownish black, the outer webs same color as the back; 

 chin white ; on the throat is a tawny or fulvous spot entirely surrounded by 

 a narrow band of black, which runs down on each side of the throat and 

 assumes a rounding form on the upper part of the breast ; breast and abdo- 

 men cinereous tinged with pale tawny ; under tail coverts bright fulvous ; 

 bill black ; iris brown ; legs reddish brown. 



Length 8 in. ; wing 4^; tail 4; bill |; tarsi 1. 



The female differs only in the black not extending across the breast below 

 the fulvous spot. 



Habitat. New Granada, Isthmus of Panama. 



At the time of referring this species to S. magnus, I had but a single exam- 

 ple, a female, which much resembles that species, and I would not have 

 inclined to separate them, but since then receiving other specimens of both 

 sexes, and finding the fulvous spot on the throat of the male to be encircled 

 with black, as in S. magnoides, 1 have not hesitated to pronounce it a distinct 

 species. It differs from magnus in the fulvous spot not only being brighter 

 and deeper in color, but of three times the extent; in having a black band 

 on the breast, and in the color of the under tail coverts being much darker, 

 more rufous. From magnoides it differs in the head above being mixed with 

 olive green, in the white on the chin extending to the bill, whereas, in mag- 

 noides the black lines on the sides of the throat come together on the chin ; 

 the fulvous on the throat is not quite so bright, but is of twice the extent of 

 that of magnoides, and the black baud on the breast of only about one-third 

 the breadtli of it in that species ; the breast of magnoides is of a clear cine- 

 reous and the crissum lighter than in the new bird. 



In color and markings it seems to be intermediate between magnus and 

 magnoides, the crissum, however, in my species is darker than in either of the 

 others. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Fam. IGTERIDJE. 



Cassiccs vitellinos. 



Cassicus icterunolusj Lawr. nee Vieill., Annals of Lye. of N. Hist., N. Y., Vol. 

 vii. p. 297. 



Male. Deep velvety black, with the lower part of the back, a broad mark 

 on the wing coverts next the back, upper and under tail coverts, basal half 

 of. tail feathers and crissum, deep yellow or yolk-of-egg color; the upper 

 middle tail coverts are tipped with black; upper mandible yellowish white, 

 lower pale plumbeous white ; iris blue ; tarsi and toes black. 



Length 12 in.; wing 7| ; tail 4| ; bill 1 9-16; tarsi If. 



The female differs only in being smaller, and measures in length 9| in. ; 

 wing 5^ ; tail 4 ; bill 1|; tarsi 1 1-16. 



Habitat. — New Granada, Isthmus of Panama, where it is very abundant; 

 I have also seen it from Nicaragua. 



This species, which I mistook for 0. persicus, Linn., (icieronotus, Vieill.), at 

 first sight appears much like it, but differs in being larger, in the yellow 

 being much deeper in color, the upper mandible much stronger, with the 

 culmen more curved, and the base of the upper mandible in front much 

 broader ; but the most marked difference is in the extent of the yellow on 

 the tail feathers, on the central feathers reaching two inches from the base, 

 and decreasing a little on the outer ones, giving a rounding form to the mark 

 of this color on the tail ; but in C. persicus, the yellow, although reaching 

 about the same distance from the base on the central feathers, extends 

 rapidly towards the end of the tail on the outer ones, on the second and third 

 lateral feathers coming within one and a quarter inches of the end ; in other 

 words, in looking towards the end of the tail, the yellow mark in my species 

 is rounding in form, whereas, in persicus, the mark of this color is very deeply 

 hollowed out. 



Fam. SCOLOPACID^. 



Ereunetes occidbntalis. 



Adult in spring. Upper plumage varied with black, bright chestnut, ashy 

 brown and white, each feather having a black centre, with bright chestnut 

 margins and tipped with greyish white ; the central upper tail coverts 

 brownish black, the outer coverts white spotted with black near their ends, 

 central tail feathers blackish brown, the other tail feathers light ash ; pri- 

 maries and secondaries blackish brown on their outer webs and tips, 

 and dark ash on their inner webs ; outer tertials dark ash, the inner 

 black in the centre with bright chestnut margins ; scapulars bright chest- 

 nut in the centre, broadly black near the end, and terminating with 

 white; wing coverts ashy brown with greyish edgings; front sides of 

 the crown to eye and under plumage white ; a dusky line tinged with 

 rufous extends from the bill to the eye ; ear coverts rufous ; front, sides of 

 the head and throat marked with minute spots of ashy brown, breast and 

 sides conspicuously marked with much larger spots of dark brown ; under 

 tail coverts white, a few with central dark brown spots ; iris brown ; bill and 

 feet jet black. 



Length Q\ in. ; wing 3| ; tail If ; bills from | to 1 1-16 ; tarsi |. 



Habitat. — Pacific coast ; California, Oregon. 



This species differs fiompusillus in the greater amount and brightness of 

 the chestnut coloring of the upper plumage, but most conspicuously in the 

 more decided character of the spots on the breast and sides, these being 

 very much larger than those of pusillus ; the bills also appear to average longer, 

 and the tarsi and toes are jet black, which in the other are yellowish green. 



The tertials are very long, reaching nearly to the end of the longest pri- 

 mary ; the feet are semipalmated about the same as those of pusillus. Eleven 

 specimens from the Pacific coast are now before me, four of my own and the 



1864.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Others belonging to the Smithsonian Institution, kindly sent me by Prof. 

 Baird for examination; three have their bills 1 1-16 in. in length — all have 

 the bright chestnut coloring above and are conspicuously spotted below, with 

 the legs uniformly deep black. Those killed even towards the end of July 

 retain the chestnut color above and the spots on the under plumage, whereas 

 at that time E. pusillus has scarcely any rufous coloring above, and is below 

 entirely destitute of spots, with a wash of a light tawny color on the upper 

 part of the breast. 



Mr. E. Coues suspected probably that more than one species existed in 

 North America, for in his able Monograph of the Tringae, published in the 

 Proc. of the Phil. Acad, of Sci., 1861, p. 177, in a note under E. pusillus, he 

 says, "I am by no means satisfied that but a single species of JEreunefes exists 

 in N. A. The difference in size, in length and proportions of the tarsus 

 even, and especially in the bill, cause it to seem almost impossible that all 

 the specimens before me are specifically the same," &c. 



He however made no positive determination of there being mofe than one 

 species. See his remarks in the note referred to above. 



I have had specimens of the so-called E. mauri sent me from Cuba by Dr. 

 Gundlach for examination, and have found it to agree precisely with examples 

 of pusillus from the Atlantic coast. 



Descriptions of six New Species of TTinONID.S from Lake Nyassa, 

 Central Africa, &c. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



The specimens herein described are of unusual interest. They are the first 

 which I have seen from Central Africa, and I am greatly indebted for them to 

 the liberality of John Kirk, M. D., of Edinburgh, who accompanied the Zam- 

 bezi Expedition, under the British Government, as Medical Officer and Botanist. 

 There are six in number, all of which I believe to be undescribed. The three 

 Spathse have the peculiar African type, and probably were furnished with sy- 

 phons. In one of the species we have, for the first time, an alate type. The 

 three Uniones differ from any type I have heretofore seen from Africa, and they 

 take more of that of India in the subtriangular form — Eaj'ahensis, (nobis,) for 

 instance — and in the subplicate character of some of our southern species — in- 

 clining to nodulous. It is greatly to be regretted that none of the soft parts 

 were preserved, that we might compare their anatomy with those from Ame- 

 rica. Lake Nyassa is one of the three great central lakes of Africa, and has a 

 southern drainage in the Zambezi River. It is, in extent, as Dr. Kirk informs 

 me by letter, " exceeding two hundred miles north and south, and from fifteen 

 to sixty miles wide, and is fifteen hundred feet above the sea. It lies between 

 the parallels of 14° and 18° south latitude. 



Unio Kirkii. — Testa plicata, triangulari, subinflata, ad latere planulata, in- 

 sequilaterali, antice rotundata, posticd angulata; valvulis crassis, antice cras- 

 sioribus; natibus valde prominentibus, solidis, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide 

 viridi, radiis capillaris induta ; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, sulcatis ; laterali- 

 bus subrectis, curtis, crassis, in valvule sinistro tripartitibus ; margarita ar- 

 gented et iridescente. 



JIab. — Lake Nyassa, Central Africa. John Kirk, M. D., of the Zambezi Ex- 

 pedition. 



Unio Nyassaensis. — Testa plicata, triangulari, subinflata, ad latere planulata, 

 inaequilaterali, anticfe rotundata, postice angulata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, solidis, ad apices undulatis; epidermide 

 luteo-cornea, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, sulcatis ; 

 lateralibus subrectis, curtis, crassis, in utroque valvule duplicibus ; margarita 

 salmoais colore tiucta et iridescente. 



[A.pril, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



Hah. — Lake Nyassa, Central Africa. Johu Kirk, M. D., of the Zambezi Ex- ^^ 

 pedition. 



Unio Aferula. — Testa, valde plicata, obliqua, subcompressa, yaldfe inaequi- 

 laterali, anticc rotunda, postice subbiangulntA ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus, solidis, ad apices nndulatis ; epider- 

 mide luteo-cornea ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, sulcatis; lateralibua 

 subrectis, curiis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; margarita dilute salmonis 

 colore tincta et vald^ iridescente. 



^a6.— Lake Nyassa, Central Africa. John Kirk, M. D., of the Zambezi Ex- 

 pedition. 



Spatha alata. — Testa alata, sulcata, triangulari, compressS,, valdfe inaequilate- 

 rali, anticfe obliqud rotundatS,, postice obtusfe angulata ; valvulis crassiusculis ; 

 natibus parvis, vix prominulis ; epidermide olivacea, nitida, obsolete radiata ; 

 margarita purpurea et valde iridescente. 



Hub. — Lake Nyassa, Central Africa. John Kirk, M. D., of the Zambezi Ex- 

 pedition. 



Spatha Nyassabnsis. — Testa subsulcata, elliptica, lenticulari, compressa, 

 valde inaequilaterali, antice rotunda, postice obtuse angulata; valvulis cras- 

 siusculis; natibus parvis, vix prominulis, ad apices minute nndulatis; epider- 

 mide rufo castanea vel luteoia, obsolete radiata ; margarita purpurescente et 

 vald^ iridescente. 



Hab. — Lake Nyassa, Central Africa. John Kirk, M. D., of the Zambezi Ex- 

 pedition. 



Spatha modesta. — Testa subsulcata, transversa, subcompressa, inaequi- 

 laterali, postice et antic^ rotunda; valvulis tenuibus ; natibus parvis, promi- 

 nulis, ad apices minute undulatis ; epidermide tenebroso-olivacea, eradiata, 

 nitida ; margarita caeruleo-alba et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Fresh- waters near Mozambique, Africa. Joha Kirk, M. D., of the 

 Zambezi Expedition. 



Description of six new species of SXJCCINEA of the United States. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



S. Halbana. — Tests, obliqno-ovata, nitidS., subdiaphan4, aurea, tenui ; spira 

 brevi; suturis impressis ; anfractibus ternis, convexis ; aperturd grandl, lato- 

 ovata ; labro regulariter expanso ; columella incurva. 



Hab. — Alexandria, Louisiana, J. H&le, M. D. 



S. Gkosvenorii. — Testa obliquo-ovata, striata, subdiaphand, stramined,tenui ; 

 spira exserta ; suturis vald^ impressis ; anfractibus quaternis, convexis ; aper- 

 tunt subrotunda, grandiuscula ; labro expanso ; columella incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Santa Rita Valley, Kansas? Mr. H. C. Grosvenorj and Alexandria, 

 Louisiana, J. Hale, M. D. 



S. MoORESiANA. — Testa obliquo-ovata, minutfe striata, opaca, albida, sub- 

 ten ui ; spiral exserta; suturis impressis; anfractibus ternis, convexiusculis ; 

 apertura subrotunda ; labro subexpanso ; columella incurvd et contorta. 



Hab. — Court House Rock, on Platte River, California route, Mr. H. Moores. 



S. WiLSONii. — Testa elongato-obliquS,, vald^ striata, diaphana, peraurea, 

 snbnitida, tenui ; spira valde exserta ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus 

 quaternis, convexiusculis ; apertura grandiuscula, ovatd ; labro subexpanso ; 

 columella, tenui, incurva et contorta. 



Hab. — Near Darien, Georgia, S. W. Wilson, M. D. 



S. FoRSHEYi. — Testa elongato-obliqu^, tenui, nitid4, diaphana, subaurea, 

 pertenui ; spirS, exserta, acuminata ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus ternis, 



1864.] 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



coDvexiusculis ; aperturd grandi, lato-ovata ; labro subexpanao ; columella 

 tenui, incurva et contorta. 



Hah. — Rulersville, Texas, Prof. 0. G. Forshey, 



S. PELLUCiDA. — Testa elongato-obliqua, lisvi, nitidd, pellncida, nlbd, pertenui ; 

 spirfi exserta, acuminata ; sutiiris impressis ; anfractibus quatertiis, vix con- 

 vexis ; apertura grandiuscula, ovatfi ; labro subexpanso ; columella tenui, in- 

 curva et contorta. 



Hab. — United States. 



Since I published, in 1841 and previously, a number of new epecies of Siic- 

 einea, Dr. Binney's Terres'rial Shells of the United States has appeared. In 

 vol. 2d, pages 65 and 66, he gives eight of my species with the Latin diagnoses, 

 and snys he had seen Wardiana, Totteniana, Nutialliana and aurea, but has no 

 knowledge of the others, except what he derived from descriptions and figures. 

 He says ihat, " on a careful examination, it appears to us that 5. aperta and 

 S. aurea are well established specit-s ; ihat Wardiana is synonymous with 

 avara, Say ; Tolteniana with ovalis, Say ; Nutialliana with ovalis, Gould ; inflata 

 with campfslris, Say ; that retusa is probably synonymous with ovalis, Gould ; 

 and that Oregonennis cannot be at present ascertained.'' All naturalists must 

 regret introdii'-ing this kind of confusion in a difficult branch of science, and 

 had Dr. Binney given more time to the subject, — my types being always open 

 to his inspeciion, — I cannot doubt but that he would have avoided this attack 

 upon my species. His editor, Dr. Gould, has in part corrected his synonymy, 

 and Mr. W. G. Binney, in the continuation of his father's beautiful work (vol. 

 4), makes further correction of these hasty and erroneous criticisms. Dr. Gould 

 says that Nnttalliann " no doubt is a well marked species ;" of course it is not 

 ovalis, Gould ; that Oregonensis is "decidedly a well marked speci»-s." Toiteniana, 

 Dr. Gould says, differs from ovalis. Say, that " it is a thinner and more fragile 

 shell, proportionally more ventricose in form, with a shorter spire, a larger 

 aperture," &c. Mr. W. G. Binn'-y says, in vol. 4, p. 34, that in regard to inflata 

 he " is inclined to doubt its specific weight." On a careful examination and 

 comparison of specimens with campeslris, sent to me as such by Dr. Ravenel, 

 from Sullivan's Island, South Carolina, I find these agree with the description 

 of Mr. Siiy and Dr. Binney, except that the full-grown specimens show a fourth 

 whorl, and not three, as both authors state in their description. This, I think, 

 arises from their mode of counting. If a fourth whorl can be seen on a speci- 

 men, even if it be not complete, I always count as four whorls, as fractions 

 cannot conveniently and correctly be enumerated in small shells. My inflata 

 has but three whorls, is smoother, more inflated and more obtuse in the spire. 

 With these differences it ought not to be made a synonym until more observa- 

 tions, under better circumstances, should prove it to be such. As regards Tot- 

 teninna, Mr. W. G. Binney says he " agrees entirely with Mr. Lea and Dr. Gould 

 in sepaiating it from obliqua, Say." 



Alier a careful examination of the original specimens, with the addition of 

 subs' quent acquisitions, I am perfectly satisfied of the correctness of my first 

 convictions, as to there being eight t^pei ies, whieh Dr. Binney would reduce to 

 two, arid they may be stated as follows : 



S. APERTA, Dr. Binney allows to be establi>hed. 



S. AUREA, Dr. Binney allows to be established. 



S. ui-rrusA, Dr. Binney says is probably ooclis, Gould. It differs, nevertheless, 

 in being retuse at the base and in being less inflated. 



S. Wabdiana, Dr. Binney says is synonymous with avara, Say. But Wardiana 

 is a more slender species, and is more oblique. It is evident that Dr. 

 B. figures two species under this name, pi. bic. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



S. ToTTENiANA. — Dr. Binney says this is synonymous with ovalis. Say.* But 

 Dr. Gould properly says it difiFers in being more fragile, and has 

 a shorter spire. It also differs in color. The interior of all my speci- 

 mens is iridescent, a character I have never seen in ova/li. Mr. W. G. 

 Binney says (v. 4,) he " agrees entirely with Lea and Gould in sepa- 

 rating it from obliqua, Say." 



S. NuTTAT.LiANA. — Dr. Binney says this is synonymous with ovalis, Gould. Dr. 

 G., however, says this " no doubt is a well-marked species." It cer- 

 tainly is very different from ovalis, Gonld, being much more slender, 

 more oblique, and different in color. In fact I believe that Dr. Gould 

 has described the s*me shell as rusticana, ia his volume of '• Expedi- 

 tion Shells, p. 28." 



S. Obegonensis. — Dr. Binney says that this "cannot at present be ascer- 

 tained." Dr. Gould says that the specimens furnished by Mr. Lea 

 " leave no doubt of being decidedly a well-marked species." Oregon- 

 ensis is perhaps nearest to Wardiana, but that shell has a smoother 

 surface, is greenish, while Oregonensis is yellowish, and in the turns 

 of the spire they differ entirely. 



S. IXFLATA. — Dr, Binney makes this synonymous with campesiris, Say. Mr. 

 W. G. Binney says he " is inclined to doubt its specific weight." In- 

 flata is smoother, more inflated and more obtuse in the spire, as well 

 as in really having one whorl less. It ought to be retained until more 

 specimens could be examined. This species was founded on a singla 

 specimen sent by Dr. Ravenel, who also sent me the true campesiris. 



Description of a new Species of FLANOBBIS. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Planorbfs Billingsii. — Testa laevi, planulata, supernfe piano convex^, sab- 

 tus lato umbilicata, estriata ; anfractibus quaternis ; labro acuto ; aperturft 

 grandiuscula, subrotunda, obliqu4. 



Hab. — Ottowa River, Canada West, E. Billings, E^q. 



Descriptions of Thirteen New Species of MELANID.S; of the United States. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



GoNioBASis saBRHOMBiCA. — Testa subcarinatA, subfusiformi, subtenui, tene' 

 broso-oiiva, estriatS,, evittatd; spiia obtusa; suturis impressis ; aiit'r>ictibu« 

 quinis, plauulatis, superne carinaiis ; aperturagraiidi, rhotuboidea, intus albidA : 

 labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella tenui et aliquanto contorta. 



^ab. — Hog Creek, North Georgia, J. Clark. 



GoNiOBASis FRATERNA. — Testa carinata, fusiformi, subtenui, lutea, evittata vel 

 quadrivit'ata ; spira obtuso-conica ; suturis valdfe impressis ; anfractibus instar 

 senis, planuLilis, sUperne acuto carinatis; aperuira parviuscula, ovato-rbom- 

 boidea, intus alba ; labro acuto, vix sinuoso ; columella tenui, interne contorts. 



Hab. — Bibb Co. and Cahawba River, Alabama. E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



GoNioBASis RoMA). — Testii subcarinat&, conoidea, subcrassa, tenebroso-cor- 

 ned, evitlata ; spira subelevata, aliquanto obtus6 elevata ; suturis impressis ; an- 

 fractibus septenis, planulatis, superne carinatis ; apertura grandiuscula, ovatii. 

 intus albida; labro acuto, subsinuoso ; columella tenui et coutoria. 



Hab. — Rome, North Georgia, Rev. G. White. 



* At p. 72, V. 2, Dr. B. siiys that Tottentiana is " nuquestionably the same with obliqtui, Say," 

 considering obliqua = ovalis, but the figures of the two last species are very different. 



1864.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



GoNiOBASis QDADRiciNCTA. — Testa Isevi vel obsolete plicatd, subfusiformi, 

 subcrassa, lutea, quadrivittata ; spira conoidea ; suturis regulariter impressis ; 

 anfractibus instar octonis, planulatis, superne angulatis ; apertura grandius- 

 cula, ovata, intus quadrivittata ; labro acuto, aliquanto sinuoso ; columella 

 tenui et aliquanto contorta. 



Hah. — Coosa and Cabawba Rivers, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, If. D.; East 

 Tennessee and North Georgia, Bishop Elliott. 



GoNioBASis Smithsoniana. — Testa plicata, fusiformi, tenebroso-cornea, sub- 

 crassa, mucronata, evittata ; spira obtuso-conic4; suturis impressis; anfrac- 

 tibus instar septenis, planulatis, in medio angulatis; apertura subgrandi, ova- 

 to-rhomboidea, intus albida ; labro acuto, subrecto; columella subcrassa et 

 aliquanto contorta. 



Hah. — North Georgia, Smithsonian Institution, and East Tennessee, Bishop 

 Elliott. 



GoNioBASis PULLA. — Testa Ifflvi, exserta, subtenui, tenebroso-fusca, nitidA; 

 spir^ elevata ; suturis regulariter impressis ; anfractibus instar septenis, cur- 

 vatis ; apertura parviuscula, ovato-rhomboidea, intus dilute purpurea; labro 

 acuto, subsinuoso ; columella tenui, purpurescenti, aliquanto contorta. 



Hab. — Cumberland Gap, East Tennessee, Major S. S. Lyon, U. S. Engineers. 



GoNiOBASis POP^FORMis. — Tcsta Isevi, pupaeformi, crassiusculd, tenebroso- 

 melleS., obsolete quinque vittata ; spir& obtusa ; suturis impressis, inferne 

 tumidis; anfractibus instar senis, convexiusculis ; apertura subgrandi, elongato- 

 pjriformi, intus vittata ; labro acuto, recto ; columella superne incrassaia. 



Hab. — Coosa River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Trypanostoma vbnbstum. — Testa laevi, acuminata, luteo-cornea, tenui, mu- 

 cronata, evittata ; spira subelevatS, ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus novenis, 

 planulatis ; apertura parviuscula, subconstrict^, elliptica ; labro acuto, sub- 

 sinuoso ; columella tenui, subcontorta. 



Hab. — Big Prairie Creek, Alabama, Dr. Showalter. 



Trypanostoma cinctum. — Testa carinata, subcrassa, tenebroso-corneS ; 

 spira subelevat4 ; suturis impressis ; anfractibus instar septenis, planulatis ; 

 apertura parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus albidS. ; labro acuto, Binuoso ; co- 

 lumella inferne incrassatd et contort^,. 



Hab. — North Alabama, Professor Tuoraey. - 



Trypanostoma univittata. — Testa obtuso-carinatS., pyramidata ; subcrassd, 

 dilute olivacea, nitidfi,, univittata ; spira elevatsi ; suturis impressis ; anfrac- 

 tibus, planulatis ; aperturd parviuscula, rhomboidea, intus albida, obsolete 

 univittata ; labro acuto, sigmoideo ; columella inferne incrassata et valdfe con- 

 torta. 



Hab. — Cahawba River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Trypanostoma corneom. — Testa striatfi, exsertd, tenui, subdiaphana, dilntfe 

 cornea ; spira elevatfi ; suturis regulariter impressis ; anfractibus octonis, sub- 

 convexis ; apertura elongata, constricto-elliptica, intus albida ; labro acuto, 

 valde sinuoso ; columella tenui et contorta. 



Hab. — Tennessee, J. G. Anthony. 



Trypanostoma napoidkom. — Testa lasvi, obtuso-conoidefi, subcrassd, cornea, 

 evittata; spira curta, mucronata ; suturis impressis; anfractibus septenis, su- 

 perne convexiusculis, ultimo inflate ; apertura grandi, subrhomboidea, intus 

 alba ; labro acuto, sinuoso ; columella inferne incrassata et valde contonfl,. 



Hab. — Tennessee, Prof. Troost. 



ScHizosTOMA Showalteru. — Tcstii lapvi, cylindracea, products, crassd, mel- 

 lea, evittata; spira exserta ; suturis valde impressis, infra funicuio instruciis; 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 113 



anfractibus subplanulatis ; fissura. parviuscula ; apertura parva, elliptic^, in- 

 tus alba ; labro acato, aliquantc siauoso ; columella inferne et supern^ iucras- 

 satfi. 

 Mab. — Coosa River, Alabama, E. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Descriptioa of five new Species of LYMNiEA of North America. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Lymn^a Smithsoniana. — Testa, fusiformi, rufo-fuscescente, subdiaphana, pa- 

 rum perforata, excellissirae transversa striata ; spira obtusa ; suturis impressis ; 

 anfractibus senis, convexis ; apertura grandiuscula, ovata, submarginem fuscS, ; 

 labro expanse; columella, parum incrassata et vix plicata. 



iZai.— Loup Fork of the Platte River, F. V. Hayden, M. D., Surg. U. S. Army. 



Lymn^a Traskii. — Testa fusiformi, tenui, delute fused, subdiaphana, parum 

 perforata, minutissime striata, nitida ; spira conoidea ; suturis impressis ; an- 

 fractibus quinis, convexiusculis ; apertura parviuscula, ovata ; submarginem 

 fuscS, ; labro subexpanso ; columella incrassata et plicatS. 



Hab. — San Antonio Arroja, John B. Trask, M. D. 



Lymnjsa Jamesii. — Testa subturrita, tenuissima, albida, diaphana, perforata, 

 striis reclis indutis; spira exserta ; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus quinis, 

 convexis ; apertura grandiuscula, subrotundata ; labro expanse ; columella 

 aliquanto plicata. 



Hab. — Poads near Cincinnati, Ohio, IT. P. James, Esq. ; and La Fayette, 

 Walker Co., Georgia, Rev. Geo.. White. 



Lymn;ea Lecoxtii. — TestS, inflata, subcrassa, perforata, excellissime trans- 

 versa striata ; spira obtusa ; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus valdfe con- 

 vexis ; apertura subrotunda, grandiuscula ; labro expanse ; columella medio 

 incrassata et irapressa. 



Hab. — Georgia, Major John LeConte. 



Lymn^a Arctica. — Testa elliptica, subinflatS,, subcrassa, imperforate, minutfe 

 striata, dilute cornea; spirS, obtusa ; suturis impressis : anfractibus convexis; 

 apertura lato-elliptica, subgrandi ; labro regulariter expanse ; columella medio 

 incrassata et magna plica indutd. 



Hab.. — Moose River of Hudson's Bay, Arctic America, Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. 



Bescriptions of two new Species of TTNIONIOiE from South Africa. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Spatha Natalensis. — Testa subsuicata, oblonga, compress^, subnitida, valde 

 inaequilaterali, ad latere planulata, antice rotunda, postice rotundata, ; valvulis 

 crassiusculis, anticfe aliquanto crassioribus ; natibus vix prominulis, ad apices 

 minute undulatis ; epidermidd tenebroso-rufo-fusca, eradiata ; margariia pur- 

 purea et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Umpingave River, Port Natal, South Africa, Rev. J. McKen. 



TJnio Natalensis. — Testa plicata, antice sulcata, oblonga, ad latere planu- 

 lata, valdfe inaequilaterali, antice rotundata, postice obtus6 angulata ; valvulis 

 subcrassis, antic^ aliquanto crassioribus ; natibus subprominentibus, acumi- 

 natis, ad apices undulatis; epidermide luteola, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibui 

 compressis, obliquis corrugatisque ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subrectisque ; 

 margarita dilute salmonis colore tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Umpingave River, Port Natal, South Africa, Rev. J. McKen. 



1864.] 8 




114 rROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Descriptions of Twenty-four new Species of FHTSA of the United States and 



Canada. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 



Phtsa NiAGARENSis. — Testd suborbiculari, iiiflata, subdiaphana, nitida, aub- 

 craasa, albida; spira obtusa, ; suturis impressig; anfractibus quaternip, ultimo 

 pergrandi ; apertura ovata, grandi ; labro expanso, subiiiargiiie:ii albo et iacras- 

 Bato ; columella medio valde incrassaia, impressa et plica indula. 



Hab. — Niagara^River, New York. 



Physa Altonensis. — Testa elliptica, aubcrassa, laeviuscula, pallido-castanea ; 

 spira brevluscula ; suturia impressis ; anfractibus quiais, ultimo grandi ; 

 apertura ovata, subgrandi ; labro acuto, subter margiaem incrassatoetcrocato- 

 vittata ; columella inferne magna plica indula. 



Hab. — Alton, Illinois, Henry Lea. 



Physa crocata. — Testa elliptica, subtenui, nitida, crocata. ; spira obtusa; 

 Buturis impressis ; anfractibus quaterni.-", ultimo grandi et subinflato ; ap- 

 erturS. elliptic^, ; labro acuto, subter marginem crocato-vittata , columella 

 medio incrassata, impressa et contoria. 



Hab. — Lafayette, Walker county, Georgia, Rev. G. White. 



Physa Foksheyi. — Testa subfusiformi, subcrassa, subopaca, luteo-cornea ; 

 spira exserta, acuminata; suturis valde impressis; anfractibus senis, ultimo 

 Bubgrandi; apertura parviuscula, ovata, subconstricta ; labro subter marginem 

 incrassato et fusco-vittato ; columella incrassata et medio impressa con- 

 tortaque. 



Hab. — Near Rutersville, Texas, Prof. C. G. Forshey. 



Physa tenuissima. — Testa subfusiformi, tenuissima, fragilissima, diaphana, 

 nitida, albid^; spira produqta; suturis vix impressis; anfractibus quaternis, 

 couvexiusculis, ultimo pergrandi et subeorapresso ; apertura grandi, elongato- 

 ovata ; labro acuto, subexpanso; columella tenui, vix contorta. 



Hab. — Alexandria, Louisiana, J. Halc^ M. D. 



Physa Halei. — Testit latfe ovata, inflata, diaphana, tenui, albida ; spira ob- 

 tusa; suturis impressis ; anfractibus quinis, ultimo grandi, apertura rotundata ; 

 labro regulariter expanso, subter marginem albo et incrassato ; columella 

 medio incrassata, impressa et plica induta. 



Hab. — Alexandria, Louisiana, J. Hale, M. D. 



Physa Febigekii. — Testa elliptica, pellucida, politd, pallida ; spira obtusft, 

 curta ; suturis vix impressis ; anfractibus quiuis, ultimo graodi et subcon- 

 Btricto ; apertura ovatS,, superne angulatS, ; labro acuto, intus incrassato, colu- 

 mella vix impressa. 



Hab. — Logan Co., Ohio, Major G. L. Febiger, U. S. A. 



Physa Nicklinii. — Testa elliptica, subcompressA., diaphan^, polita, tenuis- 

 simd, margaritaced ; spira obtusa; anfrJictibus quaternis, subconstrictis, con- 

 vexiusculis, ultimo magno ; apertura elongato-ovatd ; labro arquato ; colu- 

 mella medio parum impressa, contoria et parva pliciv induta. 



Hab. — Callaghan's, Alleghany Co., Va., P. H. Nicklin, Esq. 



Physa Grosvenoeii. — Testa ovato-fusiformi, subrectA, subinflatS, vel 

 albida vel dilute straminea, polita; spirtl aliquanto exserta; suturis impressis; 

 anfractibus quinis; ultimo grandiusculo ; apertura ovaifi., subgrandi; labro 

 subexpanso, subtbr marginem incrassato; columella incrassata; valde, im- 

 pressd ; plicatA et valde contort^,. 



Hab. — Santa Rita Valley, Kansas ? Mr. H. C. Grosvenor. 



Physa Wuitei. — Testii subinflatd, lenui, aubdiaphana, parum nitida, albidi ; 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



ipira subacnta ; suturis valdfe impressis ; anfraclibus quaternis, convexis, 

 ultimo grandi et parum inflate ; apertura elliplica, subter marginem iacras- 

 sata et pallidb-salmonia ; labro incra^sato, subconstricto ; columella impress^ 

 et contoria. 



Hab. — Lafayette, "Walker Co., Georgia, Rev. G. White, and Verdigris River, 

 Kansas, F. Hawn. 



Phtsa Saffordii. — Testa fusiform!, subcompressa, opaca, albida, polity, 

 crassiuscula; spira parum producta, acuminata; suturis impressis; anfracti- 

 bu3 quinis, ultimo grandi ; apertura ovata, grandiuscula: labro parum expanso, 

 subter margiaem incrassato et diiulfe fu.sco ; columella parum incrassata et 

 vix plicata. 



Hab. — Lebanon, Wilson Co., Tenn., J. M. SafiFord; Verdigris River, Kansas, 

 F. Hawn ; Nashville, Prof. Troost. 



P1HY3A Hawnii. — Testa fusiformi, subcompressa, crassa, albida ; spira ex- 

 serta, subobtusa ; suturis impressis, ultimo inflecto; anfractibus senis, convexis, 

 ultimo grandi ; labro parum expanso, subtfer marginem iacrassato et rufo-fusces- 

 cente ; columella valde incrassata vix plicata. 



Hab. — Verdigris River, Kansas, F. Hawn. 



Physa anatina. — Testd subfusiformi, subinflat^; dlapbana, tenui, albida; 

 spiril exserta, acuminata; suturis valde impressis ; anfractibus senis, convexius- 

 culis, ultimo grandi; apertura parviuscula, subconstricta ; labro subexpanso, 

 sub'^r marginem incrassato et crocato ; columella medio impressa, tt contorta. 



Hab. — Northern Tributary of the Arkansas River, Kansas, F. Hawn. 



Physa parva. — Testa fusiformi, subconstricta, diaphana, polita, pertenui, 

 tenebrofio-cornea ; spira exserta, acuminata; suturis impressis ; anfractibus 

 quaternis, convexiusculis, ultimo grandi; apertura parviuscula, constrict^, ; 

 labro subexpanso, margine acuto ; columella impressis, vix plicata. 



Hab. — Verdigris River and Rock Creek, Kansas, F. Hawn. 



Physa Showalterii. — Testa subfusiformi, subinflata, subdiaphana, subtenui, 

 paliido-cornea ; spira parum products, acuminata; suturis vabie impressis; 

 anfractibus quinis, convexis, ultimo grandi ; apertura magna, elliptic^ ; labro 

 regulariter expanso, subter marginem latfe incrassato et crocato; columella 

 medio valdfe impressa, incrassata, contorts, et plica induta. 



Hab. — Uniontown, Alabama, B. R. Showalter, M. D. 



Physa Smithsoniana. — Testa ellipticSi, subtenui, subdiaphan^, nitida, pal- 

 lido-fuscfl,, ferfe olivace4 ; spira subacuta; suturis impressis; anfractibus 

 quinis, convexiusculis, ultimo grandi et parum constrif't^; apertura elongato- 

 elliptica ; labro parum incrassato, subier marginem tenebroso-fusca ; columella 

 impressa et contorta. 



^a6.— Loup Fork of the Platte River, F. V. Hayden, M. D. 



Physa Warreniana. — Testa inflata, tenui, diaphana, nitida^ albida ; spir&, 

 obtusa; suturis impressis; anfractibus quinis, ultimo pergrandi et valdfe in- 

 flato; apertura late elliptica ; labro acuto subter marginem fusco et albido 

 vittata ; columella medio impressa et contorta. 



JEfafi.— Loup Fork of the Platte River, F. V. Hayden, M. D. ; Milwauki, Wis- 

 consin, H. C. Grosvenor; and Grand Rapids, Michigan, A. 0. Currier. 



Physa Tbaskii. — Testa valdfe inflata, parum obliqua, striata, subdiaphana, 

 tenuissima, paliido-castanea ; spira parum producta ; apice acuto; suturis im- 

 pressis ; anfractibus senis, ultimo pergrandi et valdfe inflate; apertura late 

 expansa ; labro acuto, subter marginem fusco- vittata ; columella, medio im- 

 pressa et magna plica induta. 



Hab. — Rio Los Angelos, Caliljrnia, J. B. Trask, M. D. 



Phtsa. striata. — Testa lat^ ovat«, obliqu6 inflati, late striata,, subdiaphand, 

 1«64.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pertenui, color columbse ; spird snbobtusa ; anfractibus quinis, convexiusculis, 

 ullino pergrandi ; apertura magna, late elliplica ; labro regularirer expanse, 

 s-ubtfer marj^iaem parum incrassato et crocato; columella medio impress^,, 

 parum incrassata et plica induta. 



Kab. — Salt Lagoon, near Monterey, California, J. B. Trask, M. D. 



Physa Blandii. — Testa ovato-subfusiformi, subobliqu3-, inflata, dilate stram- 

 ineS. vel albida; spira obtusa ; suturis impressis; anfractibus quaternis, ultimo 

 in^ato et pergrandi; apertura oratd, subgrandi; labro expanso, subier raar- 

 ginem incrassato et pallido crocato ; columella incrassata, impresssii, plicata et 

 contorta. 



j?rt6.— California, Mr. Thomas Bland. 



Physa Nottallii. — Testa inflata, subdiaphana, parum nitidil albid^ ; spiri 

 obtusa, curtd ; suturis impressis; anfractibus quaternis, convexis, uhimo per- 

 grandi et inflato; apertura grandi, subrotunda, subter marginem pallido- 

 fusca ; labro acuto, vald^ expanso; columella leviter incrassatS,, et contortil. 



Hab. — Lewis' River, Oregon, Prof. Thomas Nuttall. 



Physa VENUSTA. — Testa subcylindraceS,, tenuissima, diaphana, nitida, alba; 

 spita curta, acuminata, ; suturis leviter impressis ; anfractibus quaiernis, convex- 

 iusculis, uliimo pergrandi ; apertura magna, elongato-ovata, subter marginem 

 fusca ; labro acuto et sinuoso, vix expanso ; columella parum impressa. 



Hab. — Near Fort Vancouver, Oregon, Sir George Simpson. 



Physa hordacea. — Testa subcylindracea, pellucida, polita; dilutfe rufa; spirS, 

 subelevatil subacuta ; suturis subirapressis ; anfractibus quinis, ultimo grandi 

 et conslricto ; labro acuto, margine rufo lineato ; apertura ovata, superne 

 acute angulaia ; columella aliquanto impressa et incrassata. 



Hab. — Vancouver Island, Oregon, Sir George Simpson. 



Physa brevispira. — Testa, laevi, lato-elliptica, albida, diaphana, inflata ; spira 

 brevisuma, obtusa, vix exserta ; anfractibus ternis, ultimo grandi et inflato ; 

 labro acuto, margine intus incrassato ; apertura pergrandi et dilatala ; colu- 

 mella incrassata, impressa et contorta. 



Hab. — Ottowa River, Canada West, E. Billings, Esq. 



A Critical Review of the Family PROCELLA.RID.S: :— Part II. ; Embracing the 



PUFFINE.E. 



BY ELLIOTT COUES, M. D. ; U. 8. A. 



The present paper is the second of a series in which it is proposed to con- 

 sider the entire family of Petrels. The first fasciculus in which the Procel- 

 larieae or " Stormy Petrels" are reviewed, has already appeared in these Pro- 

 ceedings ; in the present continuation of the sabject are embraced the Puf- 

 finese, or "Shearwaters." 



In writing upon the Procellariese I had regard more particularly to the 

 generic disposition of the species ; for most of them Avere so well known as 

 to require comparatively little comment upon their specific distinctions. 

 With the Puffineae, however, the case is exactly the reverse. While 

 the generic groups are very plainly indicated, the species compri ed in each 

 are for the most part quite numerous, and their relations to each other, gene- 

 rally so very intimate, as regards size, form, and color, that it requires care- 

 ful and discriminating comparison to separate them. I have, therefore, given 

 this part of the subject in hand special attention ; and have gone consider- 

 ably into details in my examination of the sftecific characters and relation- 

 ships of the numerous components of the group, believing that in no other 

 way can the desirable .degree of information on the sabject be attained. At 



fApril, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHrA. 117 



the same time the many intricate questions of synonymy involved have 

 necessitated somewhat lengthy discussions. 



In my arrangement of the genera and species I have closely followed that 

 given by Bonaparte in his Conspectus ; except that I place among the Puf- 

 fineae the genus Adamastor, which Bonaparte considers as belonging to the Ful- 

 marese. The jposition of this genus is, indeed, a little uncertain, the char- 

 acters of the Dill approximating to those of the Fulmareae. Its bill, how- 

 ever, is almost identical with that of Majaqueus ; and it agrees so closely in 

 other respects that the two genera cannot be placed in diiferent groups ; while 

 the possession by each of twelve, instead of fourteen or sixteen rectrices, 

 plainly indicates that they belong to the Puffinese rather than to the Fulmareae. 



The Faffinese, as I regard them, are composed of five genera, viz : — Maja- 

 queus, Adamastor, Thiellus, Nectris and Puffinus. The two first of these are 

 vilry difl'erent from the three last in many respects ; and warrant a sub- 

 division of the section into two groups. The first, or the " Fulmar-Puffins,^ ^ 

 have the bill stouter than ordinary ; the nasal tubes longer, more elevated, 

 more decidedly tubular, vertically truncated at their apices, and the nasal 

 septum thinner ; the wings and tail shorter. The three latter of the above- 

 named genera constitute the "Puffins proper." The bill is very long and 

 slender ; the nasal tubes short, broad, depressed, obliquely truncated ; 

 the nasal septum thick ; the wings and tail very long, the latter much 

 rounded ; and the feet very large. As for the genera themselves, they are 

 hardly worth retaining, except it be for convenience' sake. Thiellus is mere- 

 ly Nedris with a longer and more decidedly cuneiform tail ; while Nectris 

 hardly differs from Puffinus, except in its rather slenderer bill, and entirely 

 fuliginous color. The subdivision of Puffinus into " Ardenna," "Priofiuus," 

 and " Puffinus" seems quite unwarrantable. 



I shall consider the species of the five genera in the order in which they are 

 named above, and conclude with a brief synopsis of the section in accord- 

 ance with the results arrived at in the investigation. 



MAJAQUEUS, Reich. 



Gen. char. — Bill a little shorter than the head, about equal to the tarsus, 

 stout, compressed, higher than broad at the base, the culmen rising imme- 

 diately from the nostrils, the unguis large, very convex, much hooked. Com- 

 missure unusually curved from feathers to unguis, the concavity looking up 

 wards ; outline of inferior mandibular rami quite straight to the unguis. 

 Nasal tubes long, (nearly a third the length of the culmen), elevated, laterally 

 obliquely flattened, carinated along the median line, apically vertically trun- 

 cated, with a considerable emargination ; nostrils quite circular ; the septum 

 narrow for this section. Wings very short for this family. Tail also exceed- 

 ingly short, and subtruncated, the graduation of the lateral feathers being 

 slight. Feet stout, the tarsus greatly abbreviated, being much shorter than 

 the middle toe without its claw. Outer toe without claw longer than the 

 middle. Tip of the inner claw reaching the base of the middle one. Of large 

 size, dark color, and exceeding robust form. 



The preceding paragraph characterizes a marked and very peculiar genus 

 of Procellaridse. It is at once distinguished from all its allies by the com- 

 bination of the large size, extreme robustness of bill and feet, as well of the 

 whole body, the unusually short wings and tail, the dark colors, etc. It is 

 most nearly allied to Adamastor, the bills of the types of the two genera 

 being almost identical ; but other characters readily distinguish the two. 



Two species of this genus are recognized by ornithologists. Dr. Schlegel 

 has well shown that it is rather by peculiarities of form and size that conspicil- 

 latus is to be distinguished, if at all, from aequinoctialis. 



1864.] 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY 01 



MAJAQUEas AEQuraocTiALis, Reich ex Linn. 



Procellaria aequinoctialis, Linn., S.N., eti. vi. (1758), Id. ed. xii., i., 176(5, 

 p. 213. Gmel. S. N. i., p. 564. Lath. Ind. Orn. ii., 1790, p. 821, et 

 anctoram. P. aequinoxialis, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet, d' H. N., 1817, 

 xxv., p. 422. Priofinus aequ'noctialis, Hombr., et Jacqain. Majaqueus 

 aequinoctialis, Reich, Syst. Av., pL 20, fig. 340, 341. Bon^arte, Consp. 

 Avium, ii. 1856, p. 200. 

 Puffinus capitis Bonm-npei, Brisson, Ornith, vi. 1760, p. 137. Procellaria 

 nigra, Forster, Descr. Anim, ed. Licht. 1844, p. 26. " Eh-ocellaria fu- 

 * liginosa, Solander." 



Habitat, — "In oceano Australi extra tropicum, (nunquam visa ad lineam 

 aequinoctialem, unde patet, in ipsum nomen ' aequinoctialis ' non quadrare.'* 

 (Fokstee). 



It is unnecessary to give any description of this long and well known 

 species. 



The white spots on the throat and cheeks appear to vary much with age. 

 In the perfectly adult bird the triangular gular spot is alone left ; that on the 

 cheeks, which is connected with it in immature birds, having disappeared. Very 

 young birds have the under parts almost wholly whitish, which afterwards 

 deepens into fuliginous. 



The present is one of the three species of Procellaridae, (pelagica, aequinoc- 

 tialis, capensis), known to Linnaeus in 1758, and given in the sixth edition of 

 his Systema Nature. The name aequinoctialis appears, according to the obser- 

 vations of most naturalists, to be geographically erroneous ; and probably on 

 this account it was changed to nigra by Forster in 1772. But as it is impos- 

 sible to say exactly what are the limits of a Procellaridian's wanderings, it 

 would be hardly warrantable, I think, to change Linnaeus' appellation. 

 There are no points of synonymy which require discussion here. 



Majaqueus coxspicillatus, Bp. ex Gould. 



Procellaria conspicillata, Gould, Ann. et Mag. N. H., 1844, Ima. series 

 xiii., p. 362. Id. Birds Austr. vii. pi. 46. Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. 

 Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 20. Majaqueus conspicillatus, Bonap. Consp. Av. 

 ii., 1856, p. 200. 

 Procellaria larvata, Lesson. 



Habitat. — Australian Seas. 



This species, despite the peculiar markings of the head, which usually 

 characterize it, is, nevertheless, exceedingly closely allied to the preceding. 

 Examination of the large series in the Philadelphia Academy collection shows 

 the markings to be very variable as to their extent, and that they are some- 

 times hardly traceable at all. (Consult on this point Dr. Schlegel's mono- 

 graph, where the point is fully elucidated.) In the majority of specimens 

 the submental white patch is more or less perfectly connected with a broad 

 white stripe, which, passing ft-om the feathers on the side of the lower man- 

 dible, runs backwards on the side of the head, below the eye, curving up- 

 wards on the occiput, so as nearly to meet its fellow of the opposite side. In 

 addition to this, a broad somewhat crescentic patch occupies the anterior por- 

 tion of the vertex, and descends on the cheeks in front of the eyes nearly or 

 quite to the commissure of the bill, leaving the features of the extreme 

 front black. The colors in every other respect are those of aequinoctialis. 



More constant and reliable, though not so conspicuous, diagnostic features 

 are to be found in other characters. The b rd is larger than aequinoctialis; 

 its bill is a little longer and considerably more robust, and has the unguis of 

 both mandibles bluish black instead of bright yellow. The sides of the man- 

 dibles are also usually much darker in color. The wings and tail, on an aver- 

 age, exceed those of aequinoctialis by an inch or so, but the variation with 

 individuals of both species amounts to more than this. A corresponding 

 relative difference exists in the average length cf the tarsus and toes. 



[April, 




NA.TURAL SCIINCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



There are no points of synonymy connected with this species which require 

 notice. 



ADAMASTOR, Bon. 



Char. Gen.— Of large siie and robust form. Bill a little shorter than the 

 head, about three-fourths the tarsus, broad and stout at the base, narrowing 

 regularly to the strong, very convex compressed unguis. Nasal tubes longer 

 than ordinary (for the Puffinere) very broad, depressed, but vertically trun- 

 cated at their extremity, and with an unusually thin septum, somewhat as in 

 the Fulmarese, to which the genus bears considerable analogy. Wings rather 

 short for this section ; the primaries broad and stout, the second quite as 

 long as the first. Tail rather short, of twelve feathers ; the central rectrices 

 projecting and a little acuminate ; the lateral more rounded, and rapidly 

 graduated. Feet of the usual size, moderately compressed and stout. Tar- 

 sus shorter than the middle toe without its claw. Outer toe longer than the 

 middle. Tip of outer claw about reaching base of middle. 



The genus Adamasior was founded in 1856 by Bonaparte to accommodate 

 certain Procella'ridians, which seem to combine in a remarkable manner the 

 characteristics of both the Fulmarese and the Puffiue*. The species resem- 

 ble mo.~t the Fulmarese in the length, vertical truncation and thin septum 

 of the nasal tubes ; and also less markedly in the shape of the wings and 

 tail. In all other respects they are, however, true Puffinese. The bill, in 

 shape and comparative size, can hardly be distinguished from that of Maja- 

 queus aeqninoctialis, which is one of the Puffinese. The most essential char- 

 acter of the bill of the Fulmaresi is that the outline of the unguis of the lower 

 mandible is about straight and as-ending ; that of the Puffinese is very concave 

 and decurved. Adamastor possesses the latter character. Again, the taU of 

 the Fulmarese has fourteen {Fulmarus) or sixteen (ossifraga) rectrices ; the 

 tail of Adamaatoi- but twelve. The large stout feet, too, are those of Shear- 

 waters, and not of Fulmars. From these manifold considerations I think 

 that it is manifest that the proper affinities of the somewhat anomalous 

 genus are decidedly with the Puffinese, rather than with the Fulmarese, 

 among which Bonaparte has located it. 



It is not a little surprising that so great confusion and uncertainty should 

 have reigned concerning so marked a species as P. cinereus, Gmel, the type 

 of this peculiar genus. On my remarks, infra-, upon A- cinereus, and also 

 upon Pdffinu^ Kuhlii, I hope I have elucidated several vexed questions of 

 synonymy satisfact -rily. 



Three species are known to me to compose this geno^. 



Adam.vstor ciiiEEEDS Coucs ex Gmel. 



Procellaria cinerea, Graelin, Syst. Nat., I. pars 2, 1788, p. 5G3. Latham, 

 Ind. Ornith., ii. 1790, p. 824. Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. d'H. N., 1817, 

 XXV. p. 418. Sed non Proc. vel Pujf. vel Nectr. cinereus, Kuhl, Cuv., 

 Temm., Degl., Keys, et Bias. Schiuz., Schleg. nee al auct. Europ. 

 recent, fere omnium, quse P. Kuhlii, Boie : n^c Audubon, et auct. 

 Amerio. quse F. major Faber. 



Puffinvs cinereus, (Gm.) Lawrence, Birds N. A., 1858, p. 835; ex Cali- 

 fornia. (Homonyma accurate enumerata ; descriptio pra;staus ; et 

 observationes pertinentes.) 



Procellaria htesitata, Forster, Descript. Anim., ed. Licht., 1844, p. 208. 

 Gould, Birds Austr., vii. pi. Ixvii. et Reichenbach, Syst. Av., pi. xxiv. 

 fig. 2fJ04 ; nee Kuhl, Beit. Zool., p. 142 ; nee Temm., Pi. color tab. 

 416 ; quae species Astrelalce generis, teste Bonaparteo. Poffiaus hcesi- 

 tatus, Lawrence, Ann. New York Lye. Nat. Hist., 1853, vi. p. 5. 



Adamastor tt/pus, Bonaparte, Consp. Avium, ii. 1856, p. 187. Comptes 

 Rendus Ac. Sc. Tab. Lont/ip.— Procellaria adamastor, Schlegel, Monog. 

 Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 25. 

 1864.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Puffinus Kuhlii, Cassin, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada., June, 1862, p. — 



(Specimena ipsa a me visa.) Sed non Boie, nee auct. 

 ?Piocellaria melanura, Bonn, Encyc. Method. 

 Descriptidn.* — Form typically that of the genus, which see, supr/i. 

 Color. — The nasal tubes, and culmen as far as the unguis, are black ; the 

 unguis is pale yellowish. The sides of the upper mandible, as far as the 

 sulcus which separates them from the culmen, yellow, as are thtj sides of 

 the lower mandible and its unguis ; the sulcus of the lower mandible and its 

 commissural edge being bluish black. [Compare Fokst. Descr., p. 208.] 

 Feet in the dried specimen dingy bluish or yellowish green, dusky exteriorly 

 and posteriorly, the webs yellow, the claws light brown, with black tips. 

 Above a uniform cinereous, of much the same shade over the whole upp%r 

 parts ; some of the feathers, especially the scapulars and tertials, with just 

 appreciably lighter tips ; the crown of the head and the circumocular region 

 a little deeper cinereous than elsewhere. The wing coverts of the specimen in 

 question are interspersed with feathers of a dull brownish rather than cine- 

 reous hue. These are evidently old worn ones, and doubtless indicate that 

 in this species, as in others, the newer and fresher the feathers the clearer 

 and more decided is the cinercoun hue. The color of the upper parts has no 

 line of demarcation with the white of the lower on the sides of the head and 

 neck. Insensibly fading away, it extends quite around on the chin and 

 throat, but is more restricted on the sides of the neck. The primaries are 

 blackish cinereous on their outer webs and at their tips ; light greyish cine- 

 reous internally and basally ; their shafts are light brown. The inferior sur- 

 faces of the wings, together with the axillary featliers and some feathers on 

 the sides of the body under the wings, are dull brownish cinereous. The 

 tail feathers and the entire under tail coverts, from the anus backwards, are 

 deep blackish or sooty cinereous, the reotrioes the darkest. The rest of the 

 under parts are white. 



Dimensions. — Length about 19 inch.es. Bill along culmen 1-80 ; from fea- 

 thers on side of lower mandible to its apex 1-50 ; height of bill at base 65 ; 

 width of bill at base "60. Wing ft'om the carpus 13-00 ; tail 5*75 ; exterior 

 rectrioes 1-25 shorter. Tarsus 2-40; middle toe and claw 2-90; outer do. 

 3'00 ; inner do, 2*50. Length of nasal tubes '45, inches and hundredths. 



Bibliography. — As I have endeavored to prove, in my discussion of the 

 synonyms of P. Kuhlii (which see), the Proc. cinerea, Gmelin, is really the 

 present species, and not the common Atlantic bird to which the name cine- 

 reus has been generally applied by European authors. Bonaparte, indeed, 

 was completely convinced of this ; and it is the more singular that he does 

 not adopt Gmelin's name, but prefers to confer a new specific designation, — • 

 viz. : typus, in direct violation of one of the most firmly established laws of 

 nomenclature. To Mr. G. N. Lawrence is due the credit of restoring Gme- 

 lin'a name to the species to which it rightfully belongs. 



The Proc. hcesitata of Forster is most undoubtedly, I think, the present 

 spepies. His desoriptign is pertinent in every respect ; and his remarks con- 

 cerning the form and color of the bill will apply to no other species. The 

 hcesitata of Gould's Birds of Australia, and of Lawrence, (Ann. New York 

 Lye. Nat, Hist.,) is the same bird. The hiesilaiu of Kulil's Monograph and 

 of Temminck's Planches Color^es is apparently, however, not this species, 

 but the Astrelata diabolica, Bp, ex L'Herm. 



I quote "P. melanura, Bonn." on authority of Bonaparte, not having an 

 opportunity of verifying the reference. 



* The accompanying deseription was taken frjtn a fully mature specimen from the coast of 

 California, off Monterey, kindly furnished for examination by M r. Lawrence. It is the example 

 from which Mr. Lawrence's description of P. hsesitata, in the Annals of the Now York Lyceum, 

 and of J', cinereus, in the Birds of North America, was taken ; is not incompatible in any feature 

 with P. cinereus, Gm., Lath., Vieill.; a^jreea entirely with Forstur's P. hxsUata, vfith Bonaparte's 

 Adamaitor tyims and Schlegel's Proc. adamattor, 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



The following resum^ of the points under discussion is given for conve- 

 nience of reference : 



Proc. cinerea, Gm., Lath,, Vieill. (1817) ; (nee auct. Europ. quse P. Ktihlii, 

 Boie ; nee auct. Amer. quse P. major, Faber) = Puffinus cinereus, Lawrence, 

 1858 = Adamastor tijpus, Bp., 1856 = Proc. adamastor, Schlegel, 1863 = 

 Adamastor cinereus, Coues, 1864. 



Proc. hmsitata, Forst., 1174: = Puff, hcesitata, Lawrence, 1853 = P. licesitata, 

 Gould (sed non P. hcesitata, Kuhl, 1823, nejc Temm. PL Color, quse species 

 Astrelat(e) = P. cinereus, Gm. 



Dr. Lichtenstefn, in his edition (1844) of Forster's Descriptiones Anima- 

 lium, says that the leucocephala of Forster (which is also the alba of Linn. , 

 Gm., Lath.) " vix nisi setate videtur differre a licesitata Forster." It is well 

 known that the present species when young has the cinereous of the head 

 much lighter than that of the adults ; and Prof. Lichtenstein's surmise may 

 therefore be correct. As, however, there are several points of form, etc., in 

 which it seems to differ from hcesitata, and especially as Bonaparte has con- 

 siderecr it a valid species of Astrelata, I shall follow the latter authority until 

 more defiuite data may be found upon the subject. 



Adamastor gelidus Coues ex Gmel. • 



Procdlaria gelida, Gmelin, Syst, Nat,, i. pars 2, 1788, p, 564. Latham, 

 Index Ornith., ii. 1790, p. 822, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. d'Hist, Nat., 

 XXV. 1817, p. 419. (Haud dubie, opinor.) 

 Procellaria Jiavirostris, Gould, Ann. et Mag. N. H., 1844, Ima ser. xiii. 

 p. 365. Adamastor Jiavirostris, 'R^. Consp, Av,, 1856, ii. p. 188. 



Habitat. — Antarctic Ocean, Cape of Good Hope. 



Sp^. char. — " Feathers of the head and all the upper surface brown, with 

 paler edges, fading into white on the tips of the upper tail coverts ; wings 

 and tail deep blackish brown ; all the under surface pure white ; the feathers 

 of the under surfaces of the shoulders with a streak of brown down the 

 centre ; bill yellow, passing into dark horn color at the tip ; tarsi and feet 

 fleshy white. 



"Length 19 inches ; bill2| ; wing 15 ; tail 6^ ; tarsi 2f ; middle toe and 

 claw 3^." — [Gould.] 



This is an exceedingly well marked species, liable to be confounded with 

 no other with which I am acquainted. That it is a species of Adamastor, 

 and entirely congeneric with A. cinereus, there can be, I think, no doubt. 

 The general coloration and the proportions as indicated by the measurements, 

 plainly evince this to be the case. Moreover, Mr. Gould himself remarks 

 that "this bird so nearly approaches in form the members of the genus Puf- 

 finus, that it is almost a question whether it should not be included in that 

 genus." A bird which could be placed by so accurate an ornithologi-t as 

 Mr. Gould in the genus Procellaria {i.e. among the Fulmarese), and which 

 yet exhibits such an affinity with the Puffineae, cannot but belong to the genus 

 Adamastor. 



Discussion of synonymy. — I think there can be no reasonable doubt that the 

 old P. gelida of Gmelin, Latham and Vieillot is really the present species. 

 The habitat and the dimensions given by these authors is the same as that 

 assigned to flavirostris by Mr. Gould ; and their diagnoses are pertinent in 

 almost every particular. The expression " pedibus caeruleis" is indeed 

 quite inadmissible ; but a misinterpretation of the color of the feet of birds 

 of this family is extremely likely to occur when only dried skins are exa- 

 mined. Still I would hardly venture to supersede Gould's flavirostris by 

 Gmelin's or Latham's gelida, were it not for the fuller and more perfect de- 

 scription of the species given by Vieillot in the work above quoted. An 

 examination of his description will show that it differs in no single conse- 



1864.] 




122 . PIIOCEEDINOS or THE ACADEMY OF 



queutial point.* In view of these facts, and deeming it of the utmost im- 

 portance to identify as many of the names of the older authors as possible, I 

 have thought it best to restore Gmelin's appellation. 



Adamastob sbriceus Bp. ex Less. 



J'liffinus sericeus, Lesson, Man. Ornith., ii. 1828, p. 402. Adamastor seri- 

 ceus, Bp., Consp. Av., 1836, ii. p. 188. 



Habitat. — Southern Pacific Ocean. 



Sp. char. — Bill black; feet flesh-colored, the margins of the webs blackish. 

 Upper parts deep greyish ashy, passing into blackish grey on the upper wing 

 coverts. Head, neck and under parts white ; the farmer variegated with 

 some touches of clear greyish ash. Gircumocular region blackish. Inferior 

 surfaces of the win^s of a lighter color than the superior. Tail rounded, its 

 upper surface lightly washed with ashy. 



Length 15 inches ; extent of wings 36; wing from the carpus 11*50; tail 

 5 ; bill along gape 2*00 ; nasal tubes -40 ; tarsus 1'75 ; middle toe 1*33. 



The preceding description is compiled from Lesson's original notice.' The 

 indications are not as explicit as might be desired; but I think that there can 

 be no doubt of the propriety of Bonaparte's referring the species to liis genus 

 Adamastor. The' pattern of coloration is rather that of most of the species 

 of Astrc'lata; but the proportions <is indicated by Lesson's measurements in- 

 dicate a bird congeneric with Adama.^tor cinereus. 



1 have met with no synonyms of this species requiring notice. 



THIELLUS Gloger. 



Char. — Bill long and slender, about three-fourths the tarsus, compressed, 

 the unguis muL-h decurved, but at base broader than high. Nasal tubes very 

 short, only a filth of the culmen. Wings of moderate length, and ordinary 

 shape. Tail unusually lengthened, being nearly or quite half as long as the 

 wing from the carpus, very much graduated. Tarsus a fourth longer than< 

 the bill, moderately stout, compressed. Middle toe without a claw, a little 

 longer than the tarsus. Of moderate size, rather slender form and uniformly 

 fuliginous colors. 



The most essential character of the genus is found in its unusually elon- 

 gated and much graduated tail. In all other respects it hardly dilTers at all 

 from Neclri.s ; and its species have all the same fuliginous hue that charac- 

 terizes the latter genus. 



Two species are recognized by ornitbdlogists as belonging to this genus. 

 Though exceedingly closely ailied to each other, yet they seem to constantly 

 differ in some applicable points. 



Thiellcs s^phenurus Bp. ex Gould. 



Puffinus sphenurus, Gould, Ann. et Mag. N. H., 18-M, Ima series, xiii. p. 

 36^. Id. Birds Austral., vii. pi. 58. Tliidlus sphcnurus, Bonap., C. A., 

 1856, ii. p. 201. — Procellaria spheiiura, Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays- 

 Bas, 1863, p. 25. 

 Habitat.— - Aui^tralisin seas. 



A fine series of these species is in the collection of the Philadelphia Acade- 

 my. Tlie general color of the plumage is a de^p chocolate brown, or dark 

 reddish black, most of the feathers of the upper parts with paler margins. 

 The color of the back deepens into pure black on the wings and tail. Below, 

 the general plumage is of a deep brown, with a wash of grey, — the brown 

 tinge most palpable on the abdomen, the grey predominating on the throat. 



* I may remark, en pa.t.'tnnt, that the expression " prfes de Iniit ponces de longueur totale" is 

 moat probably a tyx)ograpbical error, or a lapsus calami. It was evidently intended to be " dix 

 huil." 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 123 



The bill is flesh color, tinged with brown ; much darker along the culmen 

 and on the unguis ; the legs and feet are flesh colored, with a tinge of yellow. 



This species measures from 15 to 16 inches in total length ; the wing from the 

 carpus 10-50 to 11'25. The tail varies somewhat in length, from nearly flve 

 to quite six inches ; the graduation of the lateral feathers usually being about 

 2 inches. Bill about 1-60; height at base 35, width -50 ; length of nasal 

 tubes -25. Tarsus 1-90 ; middle toe and claw 2*35. 



This species can be confounded with no other, (except, perhaps, T. chloro- 

 rhynchus, which see ;) and there are no involved points of synonymy. 



Thiellcs chlokoehynchus Bp. ex Less, 



Puffinus chlororhynchus. Lesson, Tr. Ornith., p. 613. Pucheran, Rev. 



Zoologique, 1850, p. 633. Thiellus chlororhynchus, Bp., Consp. Av., ii. 



1866, p. 201. Procellaria chlororhynchus, Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mu8. 



Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 25. 



Habitat. — '' Western Australia," Bp. Dr. Schlegel has specimens from the 



Bourbon Islands and the Cape of Good Hope. 



Alrhost identical with T. sphenurus in the color of the plumage ; and with 

 much the same dimensions. The main diagnostic points seem to be the fol- 

 lowing : The bill is of a greenish orange color, except along the culmen and 

 at the tip, where it is black. The bill is longer than that of sphenurus by 

 about a fourth of an inch on the average, and appears a little larger at the 

 base, though quite slender in its continuity. While dilororhynchus is, upon 

 the whole, a larger bird than sphenurus, nevertheless the wings are abso- 

 lutely shorter (.^ an inch or more) on an average. The feet are slightly 

 longer and stouter. In color the present species difi'ers slightly in being 

 rather more cinereous below ; but the difi'erence is not well marked. 



The species not as yet a well known one, nor contained in many mussea. 



NECTRIS Bp. (emend, ex Forst.) 



Char. — Generally similar to Puffinus ; colors uniformly fuliginous ; bill and 

 ' feet wholly or partially light colored. Bill long and slender, much hooked at 

 the tip ; nasal tubes short, broad, depressed, very obliquely truncated, the 

 septum broad, the nostrils narrowly oval. Wings reaching a little beyond 

 the tail, which varies in length, but is always more or less rounded. Feet 

 moderate ; tarsus about equal to middle toe without claw ; outer toe without 

 claw equal to middle ; tip j^ inner claw not reaching base of middle one. 



This genus comprises five, perhaps six, species, all agreeing in the uniform 

 fuliginous of tjieir plumage, and in the partial or entire paleness of the bill 

 and feet. In form it hardly differs from Pvffinus, and its retention as a valid 

 genus is perhaps questionable, except as a matter of convenience in a group 

 where it is of importance to distribute the numerous closely-allied species in 

 as many groups as may be at all characterizatble. 



Nectris fdhginosus, Keys, et Bias, ex Strickl. 



Puffinus fuliginoms, Strickland, Prqc. Zool. Soo. Lond., 1832, p. 129. 

 Lawrence, Birds N. A., 1858, p. 803, et auct. recent. Sed non Proc. 

 fuliyinoia, Gm., Lath., quae probabiliter species Thalassidronue (cauda 

 furcata ex " Otaheite ") ; nee Banks, tab. 19, Kuhl, sp. 12, pi. x. fig. 

 6; quse certe Pterodroma atlantica, Gould. Quid sit Proc. fid iginosa, 

 Kuhl, p. 148, sp. 27 (ex Banks,) nescio. — Nectris fuliginosa, Keys, et 

 Bias. Wirbelt. Europ., 1840, p. 

 Puffinus major foemina !) Temminck, Man. Orn., iv. 1840, p. 506. Puffi- 

 nus cinereus (foemina !), Gould, Birds Europ., pi. 445, fig. 2. 

 Habitat. — More northern portions of the Atlantic Ocean ; especially numer- 

 ous off the coast of Newfoundland ; more rarely on the European coast. 



Sp. ch. — Upper parts a uniform fuliginous brownish black, the primaries 

 and tail feathers of a deeper color ; under parts a much lighter fuliginous 



1864.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



brown, passing into greyish on the throat. Bill entirely brownish black. Feet 

 brownish black, the internal face of the tarsus and the interdigital membranes 

 dusky yellowish. Length, 18 inches ; wing, from the carpus, about 12, Bill 

 along culmen, 172 to 2-00; along commissure, 2-50; tarsus 220 to 2*30; 

 middle toe about 2*50. 



This species is too well known to require further characterization. 



I> is cuss ion of synonymy. — The name ^'fuliginosus^' has unfortunately been 

 almost as badly bandied about as has ciner ens, Gva. Thus the fuliginosus, 

 Gm., Lath., apparently (and it is so looked upon by most ornithologists,) be- 

 longs to a species of the genus Thalassidroma, Vig., from Otaheite, probably 

 not very widely differing from the Cymochorea melania, mihi, ex Bp. Fuligi- 

 nosa, Banks, (tab. 19.) Kuhl, (sp. 12, pi, x. fig. 6,) is a species subseqitently 

 called atlantica by Gould, now the Pte.rodroma atlantica, Bp. Exactly what is 

 the fuligi nosa, Forster, (Descr, p. 23, sp. 18), is a little doubtful. His editor, 

 Lichtenstein, says that it is the same us ftliginosa, Kuhl, sp. 12 ; and this 

 opinion is also maintained by Bonaparte, which would make it the Ptrrodroma 

 atlantica. But then, on the contrary. Dr. Kuhl asserts positively that his 

 species 12 is "omnino diversa a Nectri fuliginosa, Forst." For my own part, 

 after carefully studying Forster's description, I am inclined to coincide with 

 Dr. Kuhl, and to hold that Forster's /M%«)osa is not the Pierodroma atlantica, 

 but ratlier a pacific species of the genus Nectris. 



Species 27 of Kuhl's monograph, also G&WeA fuliginosa (after Banks, tab. 23), 

 is too indefinite for me to make anything of it. 



No other synonyms of this species seem to require notice. The confounding 

 of this species with carneipes, Gould, by Dr. Schlegel, will be noticed under 

 the head of the latter. 



Nectkis amaurosoma, Cones, nov. sp. 



-Diagnosis. — Nectris media quoad staturam intev ftdigijiosamveicarriiepedem 

 el tenuirostrem vel brevicaudam ; corpore brunneo-fuliginoso, subtus valde di- 

 lutiore, in gula fusco-cinerascente ; tectrici bus alarum inferioribus albiiiis fere 

 meris ; rostro ex toto fusco ; pedibus interne palamisque carneis, externe 

 brunneo-albis. Long, alse 11-00 poll. Ang. Rostri a fronte ad apicem 1'70. 

 Tarsi 2-00. Digiti medii cum ungue 2-40. Caudse, 4-25. 



Habitat — Mare Pacif., eircum capit. Sanct. Lucas, Calif. 



Description. — Form. Bill about as long as the head, a little shorter than 

 the tarsus, about two-thirds the middle toe and claw ; rather slender, attenu- 

 ated, compressed, except at base, where it is as \^ide as hi';h ; the unguis 

 large, and much hooked ; commissure much curved from base to unguis ; 

 outline of rami of inferior mandible quite straight. Nasal tubes rather more 

 than a fourth the length of the culmen, broad, but much depressed, with an 

 indistinct median longitudinal groove ; terminally exceedingly obliquely trun- 

 cated ; the nostrils oval. The feathers of the front form a very obtuse angle 

 on the culmen, but instead of immediately retreating on either side, they ex- 

 tend forwards again on the sides of the upper mandible, nearly as far as on the 

 culmen. Wings of ordinary length*and shape. Tail rather long, contained 

 only 2^ times in the wing from the carpus ; much rounded, as usual in the 

 genus. Feet moderately stout ; tarsus just equal to the middle toe without 

 its claw ; outer toe without its claw longer than the middle ; inner toe un- 

 usually abbreviated, the tip of its claw falling ^ of an inch short of the base 

 of the middle claw. 



Color. — The bill is wholly deep brownish black ; somewhat lighter on the 

 sides of the lower mandible ; the extremity of both ungues horn colored. The 

 inner aspect of the tarsus, the middle and inner toes, the whole of the webs, 

 and the bases of the claws, clear light yellowish flesh color ; the outer aspect 

 of the tarsus, the outer toe, and tips of the claws, the same color, but much 

 tinged with brown. The shade of the upper parts is a pure deep chocolate 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 125 



brown, without the slightest tinge of ashy; a little darker on the rump, so dark 

 as to be brownish black on the wing coverts and tertials ; the extreme tips of 

 which latter are somewhat paler. The primaries are lustrous brownish black 

 on their outer webs and at their tips ; and their inner webs are but little 

 paler ; their shafts are on their superior aspect black, becoming brownish ba- 

 sally ; their inferior aspects also black, but with a delicate white line running 

 medianly two-thirds their whole length. The rectrices are colored like the 

 primaries ; their shafts are brownish black. The entire under wing coverts 

 are white ; the purity and continuity of which is, however, interrupted by 

 some grayish brown marbling. The under parts generally are mach lighter 

 than the upper, and of a grayish rather than brownish fuliginous, this color 

 passing on the throat and chin gradually into a somewhat grayish cinereous 

 hue. The short anterior under tail coverts are light grayish brown ; the long 

 posterior ones are more of a brownish fuliginous. There is a delicate touch of 

 white on the under eyelid. 



Dimentions. — Length of bill along culmen 1-70; from feathers on side of 

 lower mandible to its top, 1*60 ; length of nasal tubes, '45 ; height of bill at 

 base, '45 ; width about the same. Wing, from the carpus, 11-00 ; tail, 4*25 ; 

 graduation of lateral rectrices, "90 ; tarsus, 2*00 ; middle toe and claw, 2*40 ; 

 outer do., 2 30 ; inner do., 1*90. 



It may seem somewhat improbable that a species of Nectris has remained to 

 this late day undescribed ; but the subject of the present article differs in so 

 many particulars from any known bird of the genus, that I have not the 

 slightest hesitation in presenting it as new. It is most closely allied iofuli- 

 ginosa, Strickl., but differs from it, as well as from carneipes and tenuirostris, 

 in many very tangible points. The combination of the wholly dark bill, with 

 the coloration of the feet, as above described, the white on the under surfaces 

 of the wings, together with its own particular dimensions, readily character- 

 ize it among its congeners. The following detailed comparison of it with each 

 may serve to define its relationships more explicitly. 



With the general colors of fuliginosus, especially as regards the wholly 

 dark bill, it differs in the conspicuous white under wing coverts, only a little 

 obscured by grayish brown, and in the different tints and pattern of the feet. 

 (Compare original descriptions of each species.) It is much smaller than that 

 species, — to wit : the length about fifteen inches, (as near as I can judge from 

 the skin,) instead of eighteen; the tarsus barely two inches, instead of two 

 and a quarter ; the toes less in proportion ; and the wing eleven, instead of 

 twelve inches. 



It is more nearly of the same size as carneipes, but in that species the 

 "whole of the plumage is chocolate black;" the bill is flesh colored, except 

 on the culmen and at the tip, whereas in my bird it is wholly dark. The feet 

 of carneipes are wholly " yellowish flesh color," while in amaurosoma the ex- 

 teijnal aspect of the tarsus and the outer toe are brownish white. 



The species hardly requires any comparison with tenuirostris or hrevicaiida, 

 the notable differences of color alone, or of dimensions alone, at once separa- 

 ting them. The bill of amaurosoma measures about 1'70 inches; that of 

 tenuirosris 1"20; the wing 11, instead of 10 inches ; the tail 4*75 to 5*00, in- 

 stead of 350, etc. The general color of tenuirostris is a deep smoky black, 

 with a tinge of ashy ; that of amaurosoma brownish fuliginous. Compare also 

 the descriptions given in this paper of the colors of the bill and feet. There 

 is just about the same amount of whitish on the under surfaces of the wings 

 of the two species. 



The type of this species, now in the Smithsonian collection, was procured by 

 Mr. John Xantus at Cape St. Lucas, Lower California, August 18th, 1860. It 

 is there apparently the representative oi fuliginosus, as my opisthomelas is of 

 obscurus. 



1864.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Necteis carneipes, Bp. ex Qonld. 



Puffimis carneipes, Gould, P. Z. S. xii. March 26, 1844, p. 57. Id. Ann. 

 et Mag. N. H., 1844, xiii. Ima., series, p. 365. Mnjaqueus carneipes, 

 Reichenbach, Syst. Av., pi. xxiv, fig, 2601. Nectris carneipes. Bona- 

 parte, Consp. Av. ii. 1856, p. 201. Procellaria carneij^es, Schlegal, 

 . Mon. Proc. Mas. Pays-Bas, 1862, p. 26, (sin^ bona ratione Nect. fuligi- 



nos. Strickl. conjuncta.) 

 '^ Puffinus cinereus, Smith, 111. S. Afric, Bds., pi. 56." ^^ Nectris gama, 

 Bp. Consp. Av. ii. p. 202 ;" de utroque teste Schlegelo. 

 Habitat. — " Numerous in all the seas bounding the western coast of Aus- 

 tralia; and breeding on the small islands off Cape Leeuwin." — [Gould.] 



This species is quite closely allied to fulic/inosus, but differs from it by ex- 

 ceedingly well maiked characters. The plumage is much the same in both 

 species, but the bill of carneipes is " fleshy white, the culmen and tips of the 

 mandibles brown ; the legs, feet, and membranes, yellowish flesh-color." Be- 

 sides these differences in color, there appear to be equally marked discre- 

 pancies in proportions ; thus, -whUe full ginosus is eighteen inches long, and 

 carneipes only fifteen, the absolute lengths of the bill, feet, and wings is very 

 nearly the same. (Compare original descriptions by Strickland and Gould.) 

 I have never seen any example so small as the one whose measurements are 

 given by Dr. Schlegel, p. 26 of his monograph, but the limits within which 

 any species of this family may vary are very great. But even granting for a 

 moment the identity of the two species, I do not see upon what authority Dr. 

 Schlegel has given the name carneipes of 1844 priority over fuliginosus of 

 1832. 



Bonaparte, in his Conspectus, has a species N. gama, from South Africa, 

 with which he considers Puff, cinereus, juv., Smith, as synonymous. I have 

 never had an opportunity of examining a specimen professing to be of this 

 species ; but as the diagnosis scarcely shows tangible points of difference, and 

 as Dr. Schlegel is convinced of its identity with carneipes, I shall, for the 

 present at least, follow his authority in assigning it as a synonym of that 

 species. 



An excellent suite of specimens of carneipes is in the collection of the Phila- 

 delphia Academy. 



Nectris tenuirostris Bp. ex Temm. 



Procellaria tenuirostris, Temminck, PI. Col., No. 587. Schlegel, Mon. 

 Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 26. Puffinus tenuirostris, Temm. et 

 Schl., Faun. Japon. Aves., p. 131, pi. 86. Nectris tenuirostris, Bona- 

 parte, Consp. Av. ii. 1856, p. 202. ^^ Proc. curilicus, Musaeorum Berol. 

 et St. Petersburg." 

 "Puff. trisHs, Mus. Parisiensis. " 

 Habitat. — Japan, and neighboring seas. 



I have before me a typical example of this marked species, from Niphon, 

 agreeing in every respect with the types of the species as described by Schle- 

 gel. 



The most peculiar character of form of this species is found in the shape of 

 the bill. It is stout at the base, where it is a little broader than high, but 

 rapidly becomes both compressed and depressed, tapering to a small, weak, 

 only moderately hooked unguis. This unusually weak bill is also short, be- 

 ing much less than the head, and only about two-thirds the tarsus. The nostrils 

 measure about a third the length of the culmen. The commissure and out- 

 line of the inferior mandibular rami are both nearly perfectly straight. The 

 wings are very long, reaching much beyond the rest; the primaries are all 

 tapering and acute. The tail is exceedingly short, its length being contained 

 nearly three times in the wing from the carpus, the central retrices projecting 

 a little, the lateral rapidly graduated. The feet are moderately lai^e and 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 127 



stout; the tarsus is about equal to the middle toe without its claw ; the outer 

 toe and claw are equal in length to the middle toe and claw ; the tip of the 

 inner claw falls short of the base of the middle. 



Bilf mostly dusky greenish yellow, brighter along the commissure and at 

 tip. Feet yellowish on the anterior, exterior and internal aspect of the tarsus 

 and toes, and the superior surfaces of the webs, the posterior edge of the tar- 

 sus, and the under surface of the webs blackish. Above very deep sooty 

 black, becoming pure black on the rectrices and outer webs of the primaries, 

 with a just appreciable ashy nuance on the wing coverts. Inner webs of 



f>rimaries (except at their tips) and the under surfaces of the wings generally 

 ight dull grayish brown. Shaft of primaries black, except along a groove on 

 their under surfaces, which is yellowish. Beneath, the whole body is of a 

 rather light fuliginous or brownish grey, fading, on the throat, (especially in 

 more immature birds) almost into greyish white. The under tail coverte, 

 however, are nearly as dark as the upper parts, only rather more fuliginouS'. 



Dimensions. Wing from the carpus 10"00 inches : central tail feathers 3*50 ; 

 lateral 2*75 ; bill along culmen 1-20 ; depth at base '30 ; width at base "40 ; 

 tarsus 1*90 ; middle toe and claw 2-25 ; outer toe and claw the same ; inner 

 toe and claw just equal to the tarsus. 



This strongly marked Jipecies is distinguished from all its congeners by its 

 small size, weak, peculiarly shaped bill, very short tail, and peculiarly 

 colored feet. The difference in intensity between the colors of upper and 

 under parts are quite appreciable. 



Synonipm/. The proper name of this species is a matter of no uncertainty, 

 but what designations are to be referred to it as synonyms is more doubtful. 

 Both Bonaparte and Schlegel place '^ curilicus, Pennant," of the museums of 

 Europe, as a synonym, which is merely, however, saying that certain muse- 

 ums have called tenuirostris, " curilicus,'' and does not in the least affect the 

 question as to whether curilicus be properly a synonym. I am inclined to 

 think thnt it is not, but that it is rather to be referred to another and larger 

 species of this faliginous genus. 



Bonaparte and Schlegel both consider *' tristis, Forster, Descr. p. 205," as 

 synonymous with this species. It is difficult to say whether such is or is not 

 the case ; but my own impression, derived from a careful study of the charac- 

 ters laid down by Forster, is that his tristis refers to a species much larger, 

 and with a stouter bill than the present ; possibly the true curilicus, Penn. 



Nectris brevicauda Bp. ex Brandt. 



Pujfiiius brevicaudus, Brandt, " Ic. Rossic, Av. pi. vi. fig. 17." Grould, 

 Ann. et Mag. N. H., xiii. Ima series, 1844, p. 365. Gould, Birds 

 Austr. viii. pi. 56. Majaqueus {!) brevicaudatus, Reichenbach, "Syst. 

 Av. pi. xxxvii. fig. 2271 — 2." Nectris brevicaudus, Bonap., Consp., 

 Av. ii. 1856, p. 201. 

 Habitat. ' ' Found in all the Australia seas, and breeds in the greatest abund- 

 ance on several of the islands in Bass's straits." [Gould.] 



"Blackish fuliginous, lighter beneath; bill black, yellowish at the base ; 

 feet cinereous, their webs yellow." [Bonaparte.] 



This is a species with which I am autoptioally unacquainted, nor have I ac- 

 cess to the original description and figure of Brandt, and I am therefore un- 

 able to discuss its characters and relationships. By Dr. Schlegel it is placed 

 as a synonym, with a query of N. tenuirostris, but other authors all agree in 

 considering it as a valid species. 



PUFFINUS Brisson. 



Bill about as long as the head, or a little less, about three-fourths the tar- 

 sus, rather stout, a little higher than broad at the base, compressed for the 



1864.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



rest of its length ; the unguis strong, much hooked ; nasal tubes about a 

 fourth the length of the culmen, broad, depressed, obliquely truncated, the 

 septum thick, the nostrils oval; wings long, pointed, first priraary longest, 

 surpassing the tail, which is lengthened and more or less rounded, of*twelve 

 rectrices. Feet very large and stout ; tarsus compressed, as long as the mid- 

 dle toe and claw ; outer toe about as long as the middle, but its claw much 

 shorter and weaker ; tip of inner claw not reaching the base of the middle 

 one ; claws strong, little curved, moderately acute, somewhat depressed, the 

 middle one with its inner edge dilated ; hallux extremely abbreviated, only 

 apparent as a short, stout, conical, rather obtuse claw. Of moderate and small 

 size. Bicolor : bill and a portion of the feet usually dark colored. 



The genus Puffinus, as characterized in the above paragraph, comprises nu- 

 merous bicolor species, spread all over the world. They form two groups. 

 Those of the first group are large, with robust bills, and have the upper plum- 

 age brown or cinereous. They are major, leiicomelas, Kuhlii and creatopus, 

 . which compose the " genus" Ardenna, Reich. The species of the second group 

 are all much smaller, with very slender, weak bills, and the upper parts blackish 

 or greyish black. They are anc/lorum, yelcuanus, obscurus, opisthomelas and 

 Hiiyax, forming the restricted " subgenus" Puffinus. 



PUFFINDS KUHLM, (Bole.) 



Procellaria puffinus, " Linn.," Temminck, Manuel d'Ornith., ii. 1820, p. 



805. Vieillot, Fauna Frang, 1828, p. 404, et auct. al. aliq. sed non 



Linnaei, quae certe P. anglonun, Ray. 

 Procellaria cinerea, Kuhl, Mon. Proc. Beit. Zool. p. 148, pi. ix. fig. 12 ; 



ex oc. Atlantico Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mas. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 24 ; ex 



ocean. Atlant. Sed non Gmelini, vel Lathami quae certe Adamastor typus, 



Bp. est, ut bene et ssepe vindicata est a Bonaparteo ; ex maribus an- 



tarcticis prsecip, Pacif. 

 Puffinus cinereus, Cuvier, Temminck, Man. Orn., vol. iv., 1840, p. 506. 



Degland, Ornith. Europ. ii. 1849, p. 362, et al. script. Europ. recent. 



fere omnium. Sed non Auduboni, et auct Amer. qui P. major, Faber : 



non Lawrencii, qui Adamastor cinereus hujus opusculi. Nectris cinereus, 



Keys, et Bias. Wirb. Europ. 1840, p. xciv. 

 Procellaria Kuhlii, Boie, Isis von Oken, 1835, p. 257, sp. 25. Puffinus 



Kuhlii, Bonaparte, Consp. Av. ii. 1856, p. 202. (Sed non Cassiu, Pr. 



A. N. S. Philada., 1862, p. 327, quae Adamastor cinereus, mihi, testibus 



speciminibus ipsis.) 

 Discussion of Synonymy. — There is in the Atlantic Ocean a very common 

 and well known Procellaridian, to wit, the " cinereous Shearwater, " a bird 

 about the size of Puffinus major, Faber, but otherwise quite distinct from it in 

 form, color, etc. This bird was named Procellaria Kuhlii by Prof. Boie, in 

 1835. (Isis von Oken, p. 257, sp. 25, which consult.) From Bole's excellent 

 characterization, and from the very marked distinctive features of the bird 

 itself, there need have been no confusion or uncertainty regarding it. But 

 before 1835, so common and well known was the bird, that it had been noticed 

 by numerous other writers, and unfortunately most of them had erroneously 

 applied to it Gmelin's name cinerea ; while others had with equal inaccuracy 

 called it P. puffinus, Linnaeus. When more recently C. L. Bonaparte at- 

 tempted to show that " cinereus, Grm., Lath.," was not the common Atlantic 

 bird at all, but a Pacific species, (described as P. haesitata by Fi ster) and 

 properly the type of a genus (viz., Adamastor, Bp.) distinct from Puffinus ; 

 the assertion was illy received by ornithologists, and the general confusion 

 rather augmented than diminished. To the following attempt to unravel the 

 knotty points of synonymy involved, I would invite the particular attention 

 of ornithologists, as I hope to be able to sustain the position assumed by 

 Bonaparte. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12t) 



The following is Gmelin's diagnosis, in copying •which the italics are my 

 own : S. N. i. pars ii. p. 563, sp. 17. "Pr. cinerea, suhtus alba, Cauda nigra, 

 rostro Jlavicante, pcdibus cceru/e-icentibus. "Cinereous Fulmar," Latham, 

 Syn. iii. p 405, No. 10. Habitat intra circulum antarcticum ; glacialis magni- 

 tudine : 20^ pollices longa." It will be noticed that Gmelin's bird is one from 

 the Antarctic seas, as large as the common Fulmar, and with exactly the 

 characters of the bird afterwards designated as Aclamastor ti/pus by Bonaparte. 

 Gmelin's further description will be found to confirm this opinion by each of 

 its sentences. I do not see, therefore, how it is possible to consider it as re- 

 ferring to a North Atlantic species, with characters so very different as are 

 those presented by P. Kuhlii, Boie. 



The Proc. cinerea, Lath., Ind. Ornith., ii. 1790, p. 824, and the Proc. cine- 

 rea, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. D'H. N. 1817, xxv, p. 418, are both exactly the 

 same as Gmelin's cinerea, and so is the Pvffinus cinereus of Lawrence, Bds. 

 N. A., 1858, p. 835, from the Pacific Ocean, under which head the synonyms 

 of Adamustor ti/pus are accurately enumerated. 



The above is all that is necessary to be said, I think, to substantiate Bona- 

 parte's position, that P. cinereus, Gm., is not the Atlantic bird afterwards 

 named Kuhlii by Boie. The subject will be resumed and the generic and 

 specific characters of Adamastor tijpus, as distinguished from those of Puffinus 

 Kuhlii, will be enlarged upon in another place. It now only remains to dis- 

 cuss the various synonyms of Kuhlii. 



The first instance of the misapplication of Gmelin's name, cinereus, which I 

 have been able to find, is that by Cuvier, when he calls P. Kuhlii '^ P. cine- 

 reus." This same malidentification has also been committed by Bonaparte, 

 (Comp. List, Bds. N. A. and Eur., 1838, p. 64.) Degland, (Ornith. Europ., 

 1849, ii, p. 362;) Temminck, (Man. Orn., iv. 1S40, p. 506; Schinz,) (Europ,. 

 Faun., 1840. i. p. 393;) ychl.-gel, (Rev. Grit. Ois. Eur,, 1844, p. 132;) Key- 

 serling and Blasius, (Wirb. Europ., 1840, p. 94.) 



The PuMnus cinereus ol Bonaparte (Synop. 13ds. N. A., 1828, p. 370,) of 

 Nnttall, (Man, Ornith,, ii. p. 33i,) and of Audubon's works, (Orn. Biogr. vol.. 

 iii. p. 555 ; Bds. N. Amer., vii. 1844, p. 212, pi. 456,) i<, however, not the -P. 

 Kuhlii but the P. major, Faber. 



"The Procellaria puffinus, L.," of Temminck, (Man. Orn. 1820, ii. p, 805;) 

 and of Vieillot, (Fauna Fran^, 1828, p. 404) are synonyms of /-*. Kuhlii. 



Yet another improper reference of Gmelin's cincnms is found in Degland's Or- : 

 nithologie Europeene, where it is placed as a synonym (with a query, how- 

 ever,) of P. major, Faber. This is just the mistake which has been generally 

 committed by American Authors. 



I am enabled to state positively, from autoptical examination of the speci- 

 mens themselves, that the bird referred to by Gassin, in the Proceedings of 

 the Philadelphia Academy for June, 18^i2, page 327, as Puj/inus Kuhlii, is 

 really the Adamastor cinereus, Mihi. The specimens, three in number, col- 

 lected by the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, are lying before me, and 

 agree in the minutest particulars with the type specimen of Lawrence's P. 

 hasitata, (Ann. N. Y., Lye! N. H., 1853) which is also Lawrence's P. cintreus 

 (Birds Amer., 1858, p. 835,) which is Adamastor ti/pus, Bp. 



Description. ■ In general /or?;;, not unlike P. major, but rather more grace- 

 ful, with slightly slenderer and weaker bill, comparatively longer wings and 

 tail, etc. Bill scarcely if at all shorter than the head, just equal to the tar- 

 sus, moderately stoat, compressed, higher tlu'.n broad at the base ; unguis 

 only moderately strong and hooked ; commissure and outline of inft-rior man- 

 dibular rami a little curved, the former most so ; nasal tubes unusually ab- 

 breviated, measuring not over a fifth of tlie culmen, but elevated, inflated, 

 medianly subcarinate, apically obliquely truncated, the nostrils subcircular 

 in outline ; wings moderately long, a little exceeding the tail ; tail quite long, 

 so much rounded as to be almost cuneiform, the central rectrices much elong- 

 1864.] 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ated ; feet rather weak and slender, moderately compressed ; tarsus shorter 

 than the middle toe wiihout the clavf ; outer toe and claw longer than the 

 middle with its claw, tip of inner claw about reaching base of middle one ; 

 claws obtuse, little arched, more or less dilated on their inner edge. 



Colors. The upper parts are of a light smoky gray, or very light brownish, 

 ash color, this color uniform on the crown and nape, interrupted on the back 

 by the pure or grayish white margins of all the feathers, which margins are 

 broadest on the scapulars, deepening on the wing coverts and tertials into deep 

 grayish brown, and also losing the white margins. The rump is ooncolor 

 with the rest of the back, but the upper tail coverts have successively more 

 and more white until the longest and most posterior ones are almost wholly of 

 this color, with only some central touches of grayish brown. The primaries 

 are deep grayish or brownish black, with, however, large white spaces which 

 occupy the basal half or two-thirds of their inner webs. The outer webs, and 

 apices of the secondaries are deep grayish plumbeous ; the greater part of 

 their inner webs white. The entire parts of the bird, from the chin to the 

 extreme tips of the under tail coverts are pure white, except some slight 

 soupQons of grayish on the Hanks. The under surfaces of the wings, except 

 just along the edges, and the axillary feathers are pure white. The connec- 

 tion of the color of the upper parts with the white of the under, on the sides of 

 the head and neck, is peculiar ; there is no line of demarcation whatever, but 

 as the color of the upper parts becomes lighter in tint, so it becomes gradually 

 more and more nebulated and undulated with white, the admixture of the 

 two having a marked and beautiful elfect. The under eyelid is wholly white, 

 the upper less completely so. The bill is yellowish, darker along the culmen, 

 the unguis light horn color. The legs and feet are yellowish, the webs still 

 clearer yellow ; the claws flesh colored. 



Dimensions. — Length of bill along culmen 1'90, along gape 2'60, from feath- 

 ers on side of lower mandible to its apex 1*75 ; height at base "70 ; width -60 ; 

 tarsus 1 90 ; middle toe and claw 2-50, outer do. 2-55, inner do. 2-50 ; wing 

 from the carpus 12*75 ; central rectrices 5 '50, exterior do 4*75. 



The variations in size to which this species is subject, are entirely parallel 

 with those of P major, detailed further on. The color of adult birds does 

 not vary much, and that chiefly in the slightly different degree of clearness 

 or obscurity of the upper parts. Younger birds, however, have the bill 

 rather dusky than yellowish, and somewhat of a greenish or bluish tinge in 

 the color of the feet The upp>^r parts are considerably darker than those of 

 the adults, being rather more of a brownish plumbeous than of an ashy gray- 

 ish tint. 



PcFFiNus LEucojiELAs Bp. ex Temm. 



■Procellaria leucome^as, Temminck, Planches colorees. No. 587. — Temm. et 



Schlegel, Fauna .Japon. p, 131, fig. 85. Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. 



Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 24. ThieUus sive Nectris leucomelnn, Auct. aliq. 



Puffinus leucomelas, Bonap., Gonsp. Av. ii. 185G, p. 203. 



With this species I am autoptically unacquainted, and therefore compile 



the following brief account from Dr. Schlegel's excellent Monograph, above 



•quoted. 



It is in general similar to P. Kuhlii, which it appears to replace in the 

 Pacific Ocean. It is smaller, however, than that species, slenderer in 

 general prorortions, and with a v/eaker bill. In color it is principally distin- 

 guished by having the feathers of the upper parts generally, and of tlie sides 

 of the head and nock white, each with a brown longitudinal shaft line. 



Length of wing from the carpus from \\\ to 12 inches. Middle tail feath- 

 ers 4^ to 4^ inches, external 3^ to 3J. Bill 22 to 23 lines ; height at base 5 

 to 6 lines ; width about the same. Nrisal tubes 3^ lines. Tarsus 21 lines ; 

 middle toe 23 to 25 lines. 

 Habitat. — Pacific ocean, particularly in vicinity of Japan. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Pppfinus cREATOPPi? Cooper (MSS.) Nov. Sp. 



Diacjnosis, P. Puffini majoris statura, nee ei coloribus perdissimilis ; sed 

 rostro multo breviore, crassiore, tnbulis nasalibus inflatis ; fere om- 

 nino nisi ungue flavescente-canieo ; pedibas brevioribus, graciliori- 

 bus, carneis ; tectricibus cauda; superioribas et inferioribus ex toto 

 biuuneo-nigris ; remigibus primariis spatio albo basin versus intern! 

 pogonii carentibus. 

 Habitat. — South Pacific Coast of North America. 



Specimen typicum et unicura in mu-aeo Smithsoniano, (Catal. No. 31964,) 

 ex insula "San Nicholas " prope California, a Ohirurgio i.O!. Coopero col- 

 lectnm. (Calend Julii A. D. mdccclxiii.) 



Description. — Form: — Bill a little shorter than the head or tarsus, about 

 two-thirds the middle toe and claw ; the most robust of the Puffinfae, being 

 especially large and swollen at the base, where it is as wide, as high. The 

 culmcn rises rapidly from the end of the nasal tubes to the strong, very con- 

 vex and much curved unguis ; the sides of the bill are considerably com- 

 pressed beyond the nostrils. Conmissure curved from the feathers to the un- 

 guis, the convexity looking downwards ; outline of the inferior mandibular 

 rami about straight. The basal tubes are very short, being hardly a fourth of 

 the length of culmen; they are unusua'ly elevated, turgid, and with a slight 

 median furrow ; very obliquely terminated ; the nares are elliptical in outline. 

 The feathers of the forhead run forward to farm an acute angle on the me- 

 dian line. The tarsi are unusually weak and slender, though not very much com- 

 pressed, and are shorter than the middle toe without the claw. The outer toe 

 just barely exceeds the middle, but its claw is much shorter and weaker. The 

 tip of the inner claw falls short of the base of the middle one. The wings are 

 of the ordinary shape and dimensions, and have the usual proportionate length 

 ofthe primaries. The tail is of mjch the same length andhas the same amount 

 of graduation of its lateral rectrices as in P. major. 



Color. — The upper parts are of about the same shade of brown as in P. 

 major, and the feathers have similar lighter margins, the head, however, 

 having more decidedly a plumbeous cast. The upper tail coverts are entirely 

 deep brownish-black, darker even than the rest of the upper parts, with no 

 vestige of white. The inner webs of the primaries are entirely brownish- 

 black to their very bases, with no indication of the white spaces which exist 

 in P. major. On the sides of the head and neck, the color of the upper parts 

 extends entirely round On to the chin and throat, having no distinct line of 

 demarcation, but very gradually and insensibly becoming more and more 

 mottled with white, until the latter becomes the predominating color ; on the 

 chin the plumbeous-black and the white are about equal in amount. The 

 dark color does not extend farther nor indeed so far on the sides of the breast 

 as on the sides of the neck. The lower eyelid is pure white. The sides under the 

 wings and the inferior surfaces of the wings are mottled with grayish-black 

 and white in about equal amount. The long axillary feathers are entirely gray-" 

 ish-black, except just at their bases. The middle of the abdomen and the 

 circumanal region are variegated with grayish-black and white. The under 

 tail coverts are entirely fuliginous black, with somewhat of a grayish cast. 

 The nasal tubes, the culmen and unguis of the bill are brownish-black ; the 

 rest of the bill light-yellowish flesh color. The legs and feet are entirely 

 light flesh color. The claws are whitish with brown tips. 



Dimensions. — "Length 19-03; extent of wings 45*00 " (collector's label.) 

 Bill along culmen 1-60; along gape 2*30; from feathers on side of lower 

 mandible 1*50; height at base, '60; width about the same; length of nasal 

 tubes '40. Wing from the flexure 12*50. Tail : exterior feathers 4*00, me- 

 dian 5-00 ; tarsus 2-10 ; middle toe and claw 265 ; outer do 250, inner 

 do 2-10. 



Comparison with allied species. — The present species is so very peculiar in 



1864.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



most of its features, that it intimately resembles no other w ith which I am 

 acquainted. It may be well, however, to notice the points of diH'erence be- 

 tween it and P. major which is the most nearly allied species. There is but 

 little difference in size between the two birds, creaiopus being only slightly 

 smaller, and the color of the upper parts is about the same in each. Creatopus 

 may be at once recognized as follows : by its much shorter, stouter bill, usu- 

 ally turgid and thick at the base, with its very short swollea nasal tubes, and 

 light flesh-color, except along the culmen and unguis; by its shorter, slen- 

 derer flesh-colored feet ; by its entirely brownish-black upper tail coverts ; by 

 the extension of the dark color of the sides of the head and neck, far round on 

 the chin and throat without any distinct line of demarcation ; by the absence of 

 any white at the bases of the primaries, and by the unusual amount of gray- 

 iah-black mottling on the sides, the under surfaces of the wings, the axillary 

 feathers, and circumanal region. 



The shape of the bill is more like that of the common Atlantic Kuhlii ; and 

 the nasal tubes are quite as short. But the bill of creatopus is much stouter, 

 wider and more turgid at the base, and the unguis is much more rapidly de- 

 curved. The color is qxiite different, (compare descriptions.) The legs of 

 cinereus are yellow ; of creatopus light flesh-color. The differences in plum- 

 age are too obvious to require comparison ; e. g. cinereus has pure white 

 under tail coverts ; creatopus brownish-black, etc. 



I have been unable to find any description which can be considered as in- 

 dicative of this species, which I believe to be hitherto quite unknown. It is 

 exceedingly interesting, from its many peculiarities of form and color. It is 

 particularly to be noted, that it is the only "bicolor " species, that is, dark 

 colored above and mostly white beneath, which has flesh-colored legs ; this 

 coloration of the legs being hitherto only known to its extent among the fuligi- 

 nous species composing the subgenus Nectris. 



The type and only known specimen of the species was taken by Dr. J. G. 

 Cooper, at San Nicholas Island, off" the coast of California. Its precise range 

 of habitat is as yet unknown. Accompanying the specimen was a note from 

 Dr. Cooper, stating that it was a species unknown to him and probably new, 

 and suggesting, in the latter event, the exceedingly appropriate name by which 

 I have designated it. 



PuFFiNus MAJOR Faber. 



Procellaria pvffinus, Kuhl, Monog. Proc. Beit. Zool, 1823, p. 146, pi. xi, fig. 

 10; et auct. al. aliq.; sed non Linn., Gmel., Lath., quae Pu^. anglorum 

 Ray; nee Temm. quse Proc. cinerea Cuv. {Kuhlii Boie.) 

 Fuffinus major, Faber, Prod. Isl. Orn. 1822, p. 56. Bp. Consp. Av. 1856, 

 ii. p. 203. — Lawrence, Birds N. A. 1858, p. 833. — Procellaria major, 

 Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1862, p, 27. — Ardenna major, 

 Reichenbach, Syst. av. t. xiv, fig, 770. 

 Paffinus cinereus, Bonap. Syn. Bds. N. A. 1828, p. 370, No. 311. Audub. 

 Birds Amer. 1844, vii. p. 212, pi. 456 ; et al. script. Americ ; sed non 

 Gmel. 

 Habitat. — Atlantic Ocean, especially its northern and temperate portion. 

 Mediterranean Sea. Atlantic coast of Africa. Cape of Good Hope. Terra 

 del Fuego. Not the Pacific Ocean ? 



Synonymy. — This species has been presented under a variety of designa- 

 tions. Some authors have thought with Kuhl, that it is the one referred to 

 by Linnaeus, Gmelin and Latham, under the name of Procellaria jwffinus. Else- 

 where, however, I have proven, I think, that such is not the case, but that 

 P. puffiiius, Linn., is a synonym of P. anglorum Ray. 



The Procellaria puffinus of Temminck (loc. cit.) is not this species, nor yet 

 the anglorum (although he presents it as the real Linnaean P. pvjffinus ;) but 

 on the contrary, it is the P. Kuhlii, Boie, as is evident from the description and 

 the synonyms quoted. I am quite at a loss however, to discover upon what 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 166 



grounds Temmiuok asserts that the P. puffinus, Kuhl., and the P. cinerea 

 Kuhl, are '' le vieux et le jeune de la meme espice." Kuhl's descriptions 

 certainly indicate the two different species ; and his passable figures of their 

 heads are distinct enough from eaeli other. But if Temminck could stoutly 

 maintain to the last that P. fulif/inosus, Strickl., was the female oiP. major, 

 Fab. (!), it is the less to be wondered at that he should commit the error we 

 are now discussing. 



It is a little doubtful what species is referred to by Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. 

 d'H. N. XXV, 1817, p. 421, under the name of " Le Petrel-puffin, Procellaria 

 pvffinus, Lath." The dimensions given ("qixinze pouees ") appertain best to 

 the anglontm ; but the description is entirely that of the P. Kuhlii, which it 

 is doubtless best to consider it. The Procellaria iniffinus of Vieillot's Fauna 

 Frang. 1828, p. 404, is undoubtedly the true cinereus. 



Dr. Degland in his Ornithologie Europ'^ene, p. 363, gives a good description 

 of this species under its proper name of Puff", major, but he is in error in 

 citing as synonyms the Puffinus cinereus, Brisson, or the Procellaria cinerea 

 Gmelin and Latham. 



Description. — Form: Bill but very little shorter than the head or tarsus, 

 Btout and subterete at the basi"-, then gradually more and more compressed to 

 the strong, deep, much curved unguis. Nasal tubes straight, about a fourth 

 the length of the culmen, somewhat dilated, the apertures widely separated, 

 Bub-elliptical. The culmen rises gradually with a slight but continuous 

 concavity from the nostrils to the summit of the unguis. The commissure 

 from the insertion of the feathers to the declination of the unguis is a long 

 regular curve, whose convexity looks downwards. The outline of the inferior 

 mandibular rami is nearly straight. The bill is about three times as long: as it 

 is high at the base, considerably less wide than high. The primaries are long, 

 somewhat narrow, rather acutely pointed, the first longest, the second 

 nearly equal, the rest rapidly graduated. The tail is long, being contained 

 only about two and a third times in the wing from the carpus ; so much 

 rounded as to be almost cuneiform ; the central rectrices projecting consid- 

 erably, and the lateral being much abbreviated. The tarsus is as long as the 

 middle toe alone, compressed as usual, but very stout and strong. The 

 outer toe is as long or slightly longer than the middle, but the small size of 

 its claw makes it fall short of the tip of the middle claw. The inner toe is 

 unusually abbreviated, the tip of its claw falling far short of the base of the 

 middle one. 



Color. — Upper parts dark bistre brown ; on the head inclining a little to 

 plumbeous or grayish brown ; on the tertials and rump the deepest ; each 

 feather of the back, rump, and wing coverts with a margin of lighter brown, 

 which in freshly plumaged birds is so light as to be almost ashy white ; ou 

 the head the color is uniform without any lighter margins, and it extends 

 considerably below the eyes, just to the level of the gape, having a clear and 

 distinct line of demarcation with the white of the throat. Posteriorly on the 

 side of the neck the white reaches further round on the nape, and has a 

 more indefinite outline. Backwards still on- the sides of the breast, the dark 

 color reaches farther down, encroaching on the white of that region. The 

 upper tail coverts, especially the longest and most posterior ones, are mostly 

 white, but with transverse rays or central spaces of brown. The primaries 

 are brownish black, deepest on their outer webs ; on their inner webs, towards 

 their bases, gradually lightening till they become brownish white, or even 

 nearly pure white, in freshly plumaged birds, especially on the innermost pri- 

 maries. The under parts from chin to anus are white ; this color interrupted on 

 flanks by the more or less numerous, large, isolated, dark brown patches, which 

 coalesce just over the flanks. The under surfaces of the wings are white, except 

 just along their edges where they are mottled with brown ; and the apices of the 

 long axillary feathers are brownish. The under tail coverts are deep grayish 



1861,] 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



brown, more or less conspicuously tipped with whitish. The tail feathers are 

 like the outer primaries. The bill is deep blackish horn. The outside of the 

 tibiae and the exterior toe are brownish ; the rest of the feet including the 

 webs yellowish flesh color. 



Dimensions. — Total length 18.00 to 20.00 inches and hundredths; expanse 

 of wings 43.00 to 45.00. Bill along culmen 2.00 ; from feathers on side of 

 lower mandible to tip 1.75; depth at base .65, width .60; wing from the 

 carpus 13.00; tail : central feathers 5.75 ; exterior do. 4.75 ; difference 1.00 ; 

 tarsus 2.40 ; middle toe and claw 2.90 ; outer do. 2.75 ; inner do. 2.30. 



Variations. — The differences in dimensions which this large species presents 

 are so great that the above measurements can only be considered as an aver- 

 age ; and individuals will be found considerably above and below the standard. 

 The bills of various specimens, as well as the tarsus and toes, differ to the 

 amount of two or even three tenths of an inch ; the wings from the carpus 

 three-fourths of an inch, or more, and the tail proportionally. The relative pro- 

 portions, however, and the shape of these several parts appear to be pretty 

 constant. 



There also exist greater variations in color than are found in most of the 

 species. The difference appears to depend chiefly upon age, or rather upon the 

 age of the feathers themselves. Just after the moult, when the feathers are 

 fresh and new, they are of a clear deep brown with a considerable of a plum- 

 beous tinge, and their margins are exceedingly light colored, in fact almost 

 white on the tertiaries, etc. With advancing age the feathers become more 

 and more of a duller brown, much like that given by Audubon in his plate ; 

 the margins are broader, less deeply defined, and simply of a dull grayish 

 brown. Constant characters, however, seem to be the uniformity in color of 

 the feathers of the head, there being no light margins to them ; the peculiar 

 line of demarcation on the sides of the head and neck, aud the partially white 

 upper, and almost wholly dark under tail coverts. Audubon's plate of this 

 species, otherwise excellent, is very wrongly colored as regards the bill and 

 feet. The bright tints he gives them rather appertain to another species. 



Notwithstanding these variations, the present species is so marked a one 

 that it is not readily to be confounded with any other. Some small and light 

 colored specimens look something like examples of P. Kuhlii ; the exact dif- 

 ferences between the two will be given under the head of the latter. From 

 P. anglorum, its size and the color of the upper parts at once distinguish it. 

 P. obscurus and its allies are too different to require comparison. P. major 

 may always be recognized by the peculiar size and shape of the bill (care- 

 fully examine preceding description) ; by the lighter margins of the feathers 

 of the upper parts ; by the line of demarcation of the white and brown on 

 the sides of the head, as above given ; and by the colors of the under tail 

 coverts and flanks, which are the reverse of those of Kuhlii, its nearest ally. 

 However light the color of the upper parts may be, they never acquire the 

 real ashy tint which is a distinguishing characteristic of the latter species ; 

 and tlie colors of the bill and feet are always conspicuously different. 



This species has an exceedingly extensive range. It apparently inhabits 

 the entire Atlantic Ocean, up to exceedingly high latitudes. Dr. Schlegel 

 has specimens from points on the west coast of Africa and from the Cape of 

 of G-ood Hope. A specimen before me from Terra del Fuego, collected by Mr. 

 T. R. Peale, Naturalist of the U. S. Exploring Expedition, is identical with 

 the common north Atlantic bird. 



PuFFi.NUS ANGLOKUM, Temm. ex Ray. 



Procellaria an(jlorum, Rail Syu. 1713, p. 134, sp. 4. Temminck, Man. 

 Orn. ii. 1820, p. 80G. Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 28. Puf- 

 Jinus anglorum, Brisson, Oinitli., 1760, vi. p. 131. Temminck, Man. 

 Ornith. iv. 1840, p. 509. Bp. Consp. av.. 1856, ii. p. 203. Law- 

 rence, Gen. Rep. Bds. N. Amer., 185o, p. 834 ; et auct. recent, fere 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



omnium. Nectris anglorum, Kuhl. Mouog. Proc. Beit. Zool., 1820, p. 

 14U, sp. 23. 

 Procellaria puffinus, Briinn., Orn. Bor., 1764, p. 29, sp. 119. Linn. Sjst. 

 Nat. i. 1766, p. 213 ; Gmel. S. N. i. 1788, p. 566. Lath. Iml. Orn. ii. 

 1790, p. 824 ; sed non auct. aliorum, quae potius ad Puff, mojorem 

 spectat.) Nectris puffinus, Keys, et Bias. Wirb. Europ. i., 1840, p. 94. 

 Puffinus arcticus, Faber, Prod. Lsl. Orn., 1822, p. 56, sp. 1. Puffinus 

 Baroll, Bonelli; Bp. Consp. Av., 1856, ii. p. 204; (an = P. ''anglo- 

 rum^ fcx Mare Medit. ;" an sub. /-". yelcuano adduceuda ?) P. " mank- 

 sii," aliq. 

 Habitat. — North Atlantic Ocean, at large. 



This species, though so long known and so common, yet requires very 

 careful investigation ; both because its bibliography is somewhat exten- 

 nive, and on account of its variations in size and color, which are so consider- 

 able that there has been much confusion concerning it. I will first examine 

 into its synonymy, and then proceed to characterize the species beyond the 

 probability of any further difficulty with its specific characters. 



The Procellaria puffinus of Liunteus, Gmelin, and Latham, has been various- 

 ly interpreted by modern authors. Most writers, including Kuhl and others, 

 consider it as the bird which was afterwards named P. major by Faber. 

 Temrainck makes it equal to the cinereus of Gmelin. Bonaparte and Schlegel 

 regard it as undoubtedly referring to the present species. An examination of 

 the diagnoses of Linnjeus, or Gmelin, or Latham, — particularly the latter, — 

 will, I think, make it quite patent that the last is the only tenable view to 

 take of the name. Such expressions as are found in e. g. Latham's notice, 

 as " Pr. corpore supra, nigro, subtus albo" * * * "15 poUices longa," 

 etc., can only be considered as referring to the anglorum ; for they are totally 

 at variance with the essential characters of the P. major. Moreover, Latham 

 cites "P. anglorum, Raii, Syn." as a synonym of the species. Such being the 

 case, I unhesitatingly accord with Bonaparte and Schlegel in their identifica- 

 tion of the Linnsean P. puffinus. I am quite at a loss to understand upon 

 what grounds M. Temminck makes the remark that " ni Liuna ni Latham 

 n'out connu cet oisean." 



The first recognized classical notice of this species is that given in 1713 by 

 Mr. Ray, under the name of Proc. anglorum. Brisson calls it Puffinus anglo- 

 rum; it is indicated by Linnaeus, Gmelin, and Latham as Proc. puffinus, with 

 "anglorum., Ray," as a synonym. Temminck was, I believe, the first binom- 

 alist who adopted Ray's designation ; he calling it in 1820 Procellaria anglo- 

 rum ; in 1840 Puffinus angl>rum. 



This species is also the Proffinus arcticus, Faber (1. c), as is evident from 

 his diagnosis. The reference of Faber's name arcticus to the P. major, as has 

 been occasionally done, is quite erroneous. I have an indistinct recollection 

 of having seen this species cited as Procellaria or Puffinus " manksii," but I 

 cannot at present call to mind the reference. 



A certain ''Puffinus Baroli, Bonelli," is admitted as distinct by Bonaparte 

 in his Conspectus, p. 204, and also in his Tab. Longip. in the Comptes Ren- 

 dus. It is said to be somewhat smaller, lighter colored, and witli a slenderer 

 bill. Well acquainted as I am, however, with the variations in just these 

 features which the ara/y^orum frequently presents, I cannot discover sufficient 

 grounds iipon which to separate P. Baroli even as a distinct variety ; but 

 rather entirely agree with Dr. Schlegel in considering it as an undoubted 

 synonym of anglorum, or at least of /-". yelcuanuf, which is the representative 

 species in the Mediterranean Sea. 



Bonaparte (Consp. ii. p. 203) inquires "quid Proc. puffinus, 'K\x\\\,'i<lo-D. 

 Proc. p. 146, sp. 22, t. xi.^ f. 10, ex Mediterraneo ?" to which I would reply 

 unhesitatingly that it is the Puffinus major, Faber. The description is entirely 

 pertinent, and the figure much more readily recognizable as representing the 

 head and bill of this species, than are many of the delineations of the work. 



1864.] 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Description. — Form : —The bill, measured from the fiontal feathers, is about 

 three-fourths as long as the skull, rather more than two-thirds the tarsus. Its 

 height at the hase is just about equal to the width. Its height at the poiit of 

 greatest convexity of the unguis hardly exceeds that at the middle of the culmen. 

 The unguis is not very strong, its convexity only moderate. The commissure 

 at first .curves gently upwards, then still more gradually downwards for the 

 whole length of the bill, and then is pretty strongly deflected along the edge 

 of the unguis. The outline of the lower mandible is about straight to the 

 unguis, a little concave thence to the tip. The length of the nasal tubes is 

 a little less than a fourth that of the culmen. The outline of the feathers on 

 the upper mandible is the segment of a perfect, circle. The folded wings just 

 about reach to the end of the tail. The second primary is nearly as long as 

 the first, the rest successively more and more rapidly graduated. The tail is 

 contained about two and a third times in the wing from the carpal joint. It is 

 much rounded, the lateral rectrices all regularly graduated; the exterior just 

 three-fourths of an inch shorter than the central pair. The tarsus is just as 

 long as the middle toe without its claw. The external toe and claw is a little 

 longer than the middle toe and claw. The tip of the inner claw falls short of 

 the base of the middle one. The claws are all nearly or quite as broad as 

 high, being much dilated on their inner edges^. 



Color :— The entire upper j^arts are of a deep lustroixs black, with a soup- 

 (jon of brownish, especially when the feathers are old and worn. On the 

 front and sides of the head and neck the black has a grayish or plumbeous 

 cast. This color extends on the sides of the head much below the eyes, in 

 fact quite to the throat, but it is more or less marbled with white. The 

 under eyelid is pure white, in marked contrast with the surrounding black. 

 On the sides of the neck the white extends further round towards the nape ; 

 on the sides of the breast, on the contrary, the color of the back extends a 

 considerable distance, it being of a decided greyish plumbeous hue, and gra- 

 dually becoming more and more marbled with white till it entirely disappears. 

 The primary quills are black, as are their shafts, their inner webs fading 

 into dull grayish brown. The entire under parts, from chin to under tail 

 coverts, are pure white, with the single exception of a few feathers just on the 

 flanks, and of the outer webs of the exterior row of under tail coverts, which 

 are plumbeous black. The under surfaces of the wings and the axillary 

 feathers are pure white, with a slight marbling of blackish just along the 

 bend of the wing. The caudal rectrices are like the primary quills ; the in- 

 ferior surfaces of their shafts grayish white. Bill deep greenish black, some 

 part of the lower mandible j-ellowish. Part of outer side of tarsus, whole of 

 outer side of exterior toe and the claws brownish black ; rest of feet light 

 yellowish, including the webs. 



Average dimensions : — Bill along culmen 1.40; height at base .45 ; width" 

 about the same ; along rictus 2.10 ; from feathers on side of lower mandible 

 to its tip 1.40 ; wing from the carpal joint 9. 25 ; tail : exterior feathers 3.25, 

 middle 4.00; amount of graduation .75; tarsus 1.80 ; middle toe and claw 

 1.90; outer do. 2.00 ; inner do. 1.55. Total length about 14.00; extent of 

 wings about 33.00 



Variations. — As to dimensions, these are quite considerable. As usual 

 among Pcffini, the bill differs a good deal in absolute size, as well as in 

 robustness, generally preserving its shape, however, quite contantly. The 

 longest bill before me measured 1.50 ; the shortest 1.30, along culmen, with 

 a corresponding difference in other dimensions. The wing from the carpal 

 joint varies nearly half an inch, and the tail to a corresponding degree. The 

 total lensth of tarsus and toes varies about a third of an inch. In color the 

 species is more constant, the chief variation being in the greater intensity or 

 more decided brownish tint of the black of the upper parts. Younger speci- 

 mens have more marbling of the plumbeous black and white on the sides of 

 the breast, the color sometimes reaching nearly or quite across the breast, or 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



even invading the throat. In immature individuals, p-lso, the lateral inferior 

 caudal tectrices may be more extensively hued with plumbeous black. They 

 are never, however, so much darkened as is usual iri obsairus or opistJiomelas. 



This species may be always recognized among its congeners by the follow- 

 ing combination of characters : its peculiar dimensions (see above), joined 

 to the very dark upper parts, this color descending far on the sides of the 

 head and breast, leaving a conspicuously white under eyelid ; the almost en- 

 tirely white under tail coverts and the comparative shortness and character- 

 istic degree of roundness of the tail. 



This is so very distinct, and at the same time so well known a species, that 

 ■it hardly requires comparison with any other. The features in which the P. 

 yelcuanus differs from it will be pointed out under the head of the latter. 



PuFFiNus Yelcuanus, Bp. ex Acerb. 



Procellaria 1/elkouan,* Acerhi, " Bibliot. Ital., 1827, cxl., Agost. p. 294;" 

 et "Bull, des Sciences Nat., 1829, xvi. p. 463. Schlegel, Monog. Proc. 

 Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, p. 29. Puffinus yelhouan, Bonaparte, Comptes 

 Rend. Tab. Longip. , Id. Consp. Av. ii. 1856, p. 205. 



Habitat. — More eastern portions of the Mediterranean Sea ; especially in the 

 Black Sea, and in the vicinity of the Bosphorus. 



With this species, admitted b/tlie majority of modern authors, I am ac- 

 quainted only through descriptions. This is specially to be regretted, since 

 authors are at variance regarding its characters and affinities, and are not even 

 entirely agreed upon its specific validity. Bonaparte considers it to be the 

 representative of obscurus in the Black Sea and vicinity, and says that it is 

 smaller than that species (being only 10 inches in length) and has a slenderer 

 bill. Dr. Schlegel, on the contrary, considers it as most intimately allied to 

 anglorum, which it replaces in that locality. As far as I can jud^e from a 

 careful study of published descriptions, I entirely agree with Dr. Schlegel in 

 opinion. On comparing it with anglorum, Dr. Schlegel has found it to differ 

 as follows : In the greater elongation of the point of the wing ; in the color of 

 the upper parts being lighter and rather tending to grey than black, as is 

 also the color of the dark feathers of the crissum ; and in the uniform deep 

 gray of the lateral under tail coverts, these latter being, in anglorum, blaek 

 on their outer, and white on their inner webs. 



The following detailed measurements are given by the same author, taken 

 from individuals coming from the Bosphorus, near Constantinople. They are 

 to be compared with those of anglorum, already given on a previous page. 

 "Wing (from the carpus), 8-33 to 8-66 inches and hundredths. Tail, 2-40 to 

 2-60. Bill along culmen, 1-20 to 1-50 ; height, -28 to -33 ; width, -40. Nasal 

 tubes, -16 to -20. Tarsus, 1-66 to 1-80 ; middle toe, 1-58. 



Puffinus obscurus, Vieill. ex Gmel. 



Frocellaria obscura, Gmel., Syst. Nat., i. pars ii. 1788, p. 559. Lath., 

 Ind. Ornith., ii. 1790, p. 828, et auct, antiq. Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. H. 

 N. 1817, XXV. p. 423. Puffinus obscurus, Bonap., Synop., 1828, p. 371. 

 Vieillot, Gal. Ois., 1834, ii. p 230 , pi. 292. Audub., Bds. Amer., 

 1844, vii. p. 216, pi. 458. et al, auct. recent. Nectris obscura, Kuhl, 

 Beitriige Zool., 1820, p. 147, pi. xi. fig. 11. Cymotomus obscurus, Mac- 

 gillivray, Man. Orn., 1844, ii. p.l3. '^Puffinus f herminieri, Lesson," 

 fide Bp. Puffinus Jloridanus, Mussel Beroliensis, " fide Bp. 

 Habitat. — The warmer portions of the Atlantic Ocean, especially the Gulf of 

 Mexico, and the coasts of the Southern United States ; abundant in the Ba- 

 hamas and Bermudas. Wanders as far north as New Jersey, and is accident- 

 ally found in Europe. Apparently replaced in the corresponding latitudes of 

 the Pacific Ocean by my Puffinus opisthomelas. 

 I'or so long known a species, the present has remarkably few synonyms, 



* I find this barbarous name Tariously spelled yelkouan, yelkuan, yelkoaii, c-ic. I liavt seea 

 fit to modify it insomuch that it may pic-ient somew.'iat of a elasMcal a.speet. 



1864.] 




138 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



and its bibliography is as explicit as that of altnost any of the eighteenth cen- 

 tury species of the family. First indicated with tolerable accuracy in Liunsean 

 times, the species has almost invariably been presented under its orighial and 

 proper specific title, though referred successively to the genera Puffinus, Nec- 

 tris, and Ci/mo'o7nus. The names ^^ PherminierP^ of Lesson, and '\)lori(lanus^^ 

 of the Berlin Museum, which I quote upon the authority of Bonaparte, are the 

 only specific synonyms which I have met with. 



There is an unusual and remarkable discrepancy in the statements of vari- 

 ous authors concerning the length of the species, different writers giving the 

 dimension from as little as 9| inches to over 13. It is impossible that it 

 should vary to this extent. I believe the average length is a little over eleven 

 inches. 



Audubon's description of this species is sufiiciently pertinent, but the plate 

 he gives is unusually poor, and by no means true to nature. The outline of 

 the bill is exceedingly faulty ; the line of demarcation of the dark and light 

 colors along the side of the head and neck is by no means accurate, and the 

 lower tail coverts are represented as entirely white. The exact insertion of 

 the right tibia of the individual figured has always been to me, anatomically 

 speaking, a puzzle. 



Dr. Kuhl informs us, in the text, that figure 11 of plate ix. of his Mono- 

 graphie der Procellarien was intended as a representation of the bill of this 

 species ; which is fortunate, as otherwise it would be quite impossible so to 

 identify it. 



I am much surprised at the statement by Dr. Degland, (Ornithologie Euro- 

 peene, ii. page 36(), published in 1849 !) that " cette espece est peu connue, et 

 il n'est pas certain qu'elle est distincte de la pri^c^dente " — P. ari'jlorum ! 

 This author's indication of the habitat of this species is vague, and leaves 

 much to be desired. 



M. Temmiuck (Man. Oi-nith., ii. p. 808^ gives, under head of P. obscnrus, 

 an excellent description of this species, except that the dimensions are inaccu- 

 rate, being far too small.* The exact measurements of both of Temminck's 

 typical examples are given by Dr. Schlegel in his recent monograph of the 

 Procellaridse, (Mus. Pays-Bas, p. 30.) This author finds that one of the types 

 is an example of anglorum, from the Mediterranean Sea, aftervvards labelled by 

 Temmiuck himself a P. Baroli, Bonelli ; and that the other is a small, weak- 

 billed specimen of the true obscurus, from the Atlantic Ocean. Tliese facts, 

 supported by the authority of one so well known for diagnostic acumen as 

 Dr. Schlegel, are indicative of an imperfect asquaintance on the part of Tem- 

 miuck with the species he treats of under the name obscurus. 



The species of Puffinus spoken of in a paper published by Dr. D. W . Pren- 

 tiss and myself in the Annual Smithsonian Report for 18C1, (p. 418 ,as hav- 

 ing occurred at Washington, D. C, and doubtfully referred to as the obscurus, 

 has since been definitely ascertained to be this species. 



Description — Form : The bill is rather small and weak, and considerably 

 compressed, except just at the base. In length along the culmen it measures 

 just about two-thirds the skull, and about three-fourths the tarsus. It is 

 quite stout at the base, where the height very decidedly surpasses the width. 

 The unguis rises rapidly and a little suddenly above the rest of the culmen, 

 and is strongly convex in outline. The commissure, from the insertion of the 

 feathers to the unguis, as well as the outline of the lower mandible as far as 

 the unguis, is almost perfectly straight. The nasal tubes are short, bein^^ 

 much less than a fourth the length of the culmen, but they are elevated and 

 quite conspicuous, much more so than in anglorum. The wings barely reach, 

 when folded, to the end of tiie long tail. The proportionate lengths of the 

 primaries are the same as in most other species. The tarsus is just as long as 

 the middle toe without its claw. The outer toe with its claw is just as long 

 as the middle one with its claw. The top of the inner claw about reaches the 



• " Longueur, " il peuprea 10 pouces." 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



base of the middle. The tail is very long, exceeding that of nnglorum, which 

 is a much larger species. It is also so very much graduated as to bo almost 

 cuneate, the lateral feathers being relatively shorter than in any other spe- 

 cies. The under tail coverts are very long, fully equalling the central rec- 

 trices. 



Color. — The upper parts are of a hue quite different from that of anglorum, 

 the black having every where a quite appreciable grayish or plumbeous tinge, 

 and the borders of the feathers being still notably lighter, especially on the 

 scapulars and tertials. The color is deepest on the rump and upper tail cov- 

 erts ; it is much restricted on the sides of the head and neck, not extending 

 below the level of the eyes, and even there its borders are marbled with 

 white. On the sides of the breast the dark color extends considerably more 

 towards the median line, but it is of a very light plumbeous tint, and much 

 variegated with white. Bot/i eyelids are more or less white, and there is, 

 moreover, an indication of a white superciliary streak. The remiges and rec- 

 trices are colored, as in anglorum. The under parts, from the chin to the un- 

 der tail coverts, are white, as are the axillary feathers and inferior alar 

 tectrices, the white only interfered with over the flanks by leaden blaek. The 

 longest posterior under tail coverts are brownish black, as are also one or two 

 rows of the exterior ones, the rest being white, with or without a pluiubeous 

 tint. Notice that in amount of white on the under tail coverts, ohscurus is 

 just intermediate between anglorum and my new opisthomtlas. The bill is 

 deep leaden blue, darker at the apex ; the legs and feet colored, as in anglo- 

 rum. 



Dimensions. — Length of bill along culmen, 1'25 ; along rictus, 1"70; from 

 end of nostrils to tip, -90 ; from feathers on side of lower mandible to its apex, 

 1'20; its depth at base, "40 ; width, '35 ; depth at convexity of unguis, "25. 

 Wing, from the carpal joint, S'OO. Tarsus, 1'60 ; middle toe and claw, 1*80 ; 

 outer do., 1'85. Central tail feathers, 4-25 ; exterior feathers nearly an inch 

 shorter. Total length from tip of bill to end of tail about 11 -00 ; expanse of 

 wings about 25-50. 



Variations. — I find the diflferences in size to be about the same, relatively to 

 its dimensions, as in the other smaller Puffini, while, as usual, the general 

 form and the proportion of parts are pretty constantly preserved. The char- 

 acteristic hue of the upper parts is always recognizable, but the precise tint 

 varies with the age of the feathers. The margins of the dorsal foathers are 

 frequently very conspicuously lighter. The limit of the extent of the dark 

 color on the sides of the head, neck, and breast, hardly differs noto.bly, even 

 with age, and is a strong specific character. Tlie relative amount of the black 

 and white on the under tail coverts is also pretty constant, being intermediate 

 between anglorum and opisthomelas, as before stated. The unusual graduation 

 of the tail is, I believe, always preserved in mature birds. 



The combination in this species of its small size, the tint of the upper parts, 

 and its characteristic line of demarcation with the white on the sides of the 

 head, neck, and breast, together with the color of the under tail coverts, and 

 the length and shape of the tail, renders it readily diagnosticable. As with 

 anglorum, I have taken it as the standard in treating of the other closely 

 allied ; and the peculiar points wherein each differs from it will be found de- 

 tailed under their respective headings. 



PUFFINUS OPISTHOMELAS COUCS, UOV. Sp. 



Diag. — P. Pvffino obscuro nee perdissimilis ; sed major, rostro longiore, 

 robustiore, alis i)edibusque longioribus, cauda breviore, minus rotundata ; 

 et tectricibus caudse inferioribus ferfe omnino fuliginoso-nigris. 



Habitat. — South Pacific coast of North America. 



Description.— Form: The bill is rather long, about four-fifths the tarsus, 

 stout, moderately compressed, a Vi^ry little higher than broad at the base, the 

 unguis large and strong, its convexity great, and rising much above the level 

 of the rest of the culmen, the depth of the bill at the point of the greatest 



186-1.] 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF 



convexity of the unguis being much more than in its middle. The outline of 

 the inferior mandibular rami is about straight as far as the unguis ; the line 

 of the commissure is considerably curved. The nasal tubes are large and 

 prominent, and rather long for this group, being more than a fourth of the 

 culmen ; and the nasal apertures are much elongated, being very elliptical 

 rather than circular. The frontal feathe) s extend forwards to a point on the 

 median line instead of being the segmt^nt of a perfect circle, as in anglorum 

 and obscurus. The folded wings reach beyond the tail. The tail is compara- 

 tively and absolutely much shorter than in ohscurus and very decidedly less 

 rounded, the difference between the middle and exterior rectrices being only 

 about half an inch. The feet are as much longer than those o{ ohscurus as 

 is proportional to the greater size of the bird ; the tarsus is as long as the 

 middle toe and half its claw. The outer toe and claw equals the middle ; 

 the tip of tlie inner claw falls short of the base of the middle one. 



Color. — The nasal tubes and culmen are blackish, the sides of the bill yel- 

 lowish or reddish brown, the unguis mostly light bluish white. " The iris is 

 dark brown," (collector's label.) The internal aspect, and part of the outer 

 side of the tarsus, the middle and inner toes and the webs are light yellowish 

 flesh color. The rest of the tarsus, the outer toe and the very margins of the 

 websiare brownish black. The claws are brown. The entire upper parts, the 

 wings and tail are of exactly the same shade of sooty black as obtains in oh- 

 scurus, but with the following notable difference in the line of demarcation of 

 the white on the sides of the head, neck and breast : the dark color is much 

 more extensive, reaching as far below the eyes as it does in anglorum, and 

 there is no definite union of the two colors ; but as the dark takes on more and 

 more of a lighter plumbeous hue, it insensibly becomes more and more uebu- 

 lated with white. There is no white on either eyelid, nor any indication of a 

 white superciliary line. The under wing coverts are white, as in ohscurus ; the 

 bend of the wing rather more decidedly mottled with the color of the back. The 

 axillary feathers are more or less blackish towards their ends instead of being 

 pure white. The flanks are more extensively and decidedly fuliginous black 

 than in ohscurus. It is in the color of the under tail c )verts, however, that the 

 diff'erence from ohscurus is most apparent. These feathers are entirely of a 

 deep fuliginous black, except a few of the shortest ones just posterior to the 

 fundament, which are whitish. 



Dimensions. — Bill along culmen 1'40, along commissure 2"00, from end of 

 nasal tubes to tip 1 "05, from feathers on side of lower mandible to its tip 1'40 ; 

 height at base '42, width a little less ; height at convexity of unguis •32. 

 Wing from the carpus about 9-00. Tarsus 1*80 ; middle toe and claw 2'10. 

 Tail 3*75 ; outer feathers -60 shorter ; (in ohscurus tail 4*25; outer feathers 

 nearly 1"00 shorter.) 



Variations. — With but two specimens before me, I cannot speak so fully on 

 this point as I could wish ; but the variations are doubtless quite parallel in 

 all respects with those of anglorum or ohscurus. The above measurements in- 

 dicate the average of the two specimens. They are precisely similar in 

 colors. 



Comparison with allied species. — This new species differs from ohscurus as 

 follows, briefly: In its larger size, as will be palpable from the measurements 

 given of the bill, wings and feet.* In its both relatively and absolutely 

 shorter tail, which is also much less rounded. In the different outline of the 

 frontal feathers on the bill In the different coloration, insomuch that there 

 is no white about the eye ; that the dark color extends much further on the 

 sides of the head and neck ; and that the under tail coverts are almost en- 

 tirely fuliginoiis black, instead of being for the^ most part white. 



It is distinguishable at a glance from anglorum by its greatly inferior size, — 



* The collector's label gives, "Total length 15 inches; expanse of wing 32;" but these cannot 

 be implicitly relied on. 



[April, 



\ 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



vide measurements ; by the very different color of the upper parts ; aud by 

 the fuliginous black instead of white under tail coverts. 



The Puifinus yelcuanus is lighter colored above than is anglorum, and there- 

 fore this species approaches it in this respect. But yelcuanus is much larger 

 than the present species, and has white under tail coverts like anglorum ; so 

 that it is impossible to confound it with opisthomelas. 



Still more different is this species from the P. nugax, Solander, from the 

 Australian seas. This latter is a very diminutive species, much smaller even 

 than obscurus, the wing being only about 6^ inches from the carpus. It also 

 has the white of the throat extending far up on the sides of the head and 

 neck, and white under tail coverts ; characters diametrically opposed to those 

 which obtain in the present species. 



I am acquainted with no other species to which the present bears any sort 

 of resemblance. I trust that I have so fully and correctly indicated its cha- 

 racters and relationships, that its introduction, even into this peculiarly in- 

 tricate group, will be the cause of no confusion or uncertainty regarding it. 



Two fine examples are contained in the Smithsonian Museum, both col- 

 lected by Mr. John Xantus at Cape St. Lucas, Lower California. (Smiths. 

 Catalogue, Nos. 16,990, 16,991.) 

 PuFFiNus NUGAX (Solauder.) 



Procellaria nugax, Solander, Schlegel, Mon. Proc. Mus. Pays-Bas, 1863, 



p. 31. Puffinus nugax, Bonaparte, Consp. Av., ii. 1856, p. 205. 

 Puffinus assimilis, Gould, P. Z. S., 1837, v. p. 156. Id. Ann. et Mag. N. 



H. xvi. Id. Birds Aust., vii. pi. 56. 

 "Procellaria australis, Eyton," (Bp.) 



Habitat. — Australian seas. 



A fine suite of this well marked species is in the collection of the Philadel- 

 phia Academy. Its relationships are closest with P. obscurus, but the dif- 

 ferences are sufficiently obvious on comparison. It is the very smallest 

 known species of Puffinus, being appreciably less than the obscurus. It is 

 hardly 10-50 inches in length ; the wings from the carpus only about 6J ; th 

 tail averages 2-75 ; the bill about one inch ; the tarsus 1^ ; the middle toe 

 about the same. The color of the upper parts is about the same as in P. ob- 

 scurus, or a very little lighter ; the feathers generally with appreciably darker 

 tips. A striking diagnostic feature is found in the extent to which the white 

 of the under parts mounts up on the sides of the head and neck, which is 

 greater than in any other species. The inferior caudal tectrices are usually 

 entirely pure white. The under surfaces of the wings are pure white, and 

 the inferior aspect of the inner webs of the primaries are dull whitish, being 

 much lighter than are these parts in obscurus. The bill is dusky horn color. 

 The tarsi are greeenish yellow ; the webs bright chrome yellow. 



The preceding paragraph shows the points in which the species differs 

 from obscurus. It is too distinct from anglorum or yelcuanus to require com- 

 parison. It cannot be confounded with my P. opisthomelas, since the latter 

 is nearly as much larger than obscurus as nugax is smaller ; has the colora- 

 tion of the sides of the head and neck very different, (compare descriptions ;) 

 has black instead of white under tail coverts, etc. 



I have not an opportunity of examining the original description of nugax 

 by Solander, but all authors agree that it is the species subsequently named 

 assimilis by Gould. I do not know where the species is called australis by 

 Eyton, but quote the name on the authority of Bonaparte. 



Analytical Synopsis of the Genera and Species of PuFFiNEiE. 



Family PRO CELL ARID^. 



Subfamily PROGELLARINiS. 



Section PtjFFiNEiE. 



Char. — Tail of twelve mnoh graduated feathers. Bill long, compressed, i 



1864.] 




14-3 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ranch hooked, the outline of the unguis of the lower mandible concave, de- 

 curved. JN'asal tubes short, broad, flattened, apicallj usually very obliquely 

 truncated ; in length usually a fourth of culmen ; the internasal septum 

 broad. In color either entirely fuliginous, or cinereous, or brown above and 

 white beneath ; never glaucous or bluish, or with parti-colored primaries. 

 "Shearwaters." 



I. MAJAQUEUS Reich. 

 The very short tail only a fifth of the total length. Bill unusually stout 

 for this section ; nasal tubes approaching in character those of Fulmarese. 

 Very large ; fuliginous, with peculiar facial markings. 



1. M. ^QUiNocTiALis Reich. 



Pr. cer/uin. L. Priofinus cequin. Homb. et Jacq. Pr. nigra, Forst. Puff". 

 capit'S bonce-spei, Briss. 

 Tarsus 2] inches ; ungues of bill yellow ; a submental white spot. 



2. M. CONSPICILLATUS Bp. 



Proc. conspicillatus, Gould. Pr. larvata, Less. 

 Larger ; bill more robust ; its unguis bluish black ; tarsus 2^ ; usually a 

 white submental spot ; a lateral stripe on sides of head, and a transverse one 

 across the vertex before the eyes. 



II. ADAMASTOR Bp. 

 Bill and nasal tubes identical with those of Majaqueus. Tarsus much less 

 than middle toe without claw. Tail very short, much graduated. Bi-color ; 

 above cinereous, below white. 



3. A. ciNEREDS Coues. 



Proc. cinerea, Gm. (non Cuv., Kuhl., Temm., Schleg., Degl., Schinz., 

 Keys, et Bias, quae Puff- Kuhlii, Boie ; nee Aud., Mitt, quae Pv^. major, 

 Fab.) Pvff- cinereus, Lawrence, 1858. Adamastor cinereus. Cones, 

 1864. Proc. hcesitata, Forst., Gould, Reich, (non Kuhl, Temm., New- 

 ton, quae Astrelata diabolica) = Puffnus hoisitata, Lawr., 1853. Pvff". 

 Kuhlii, Cass. [18G2] nee Boie. Proc. adamastor, Schleg. Adam, typus, 

 Bp. 

 Bill yellow, nasal tubes, culmen and sulcus on lower mandible black ; above 



with under surface of wings and tail cinereous ; below white ; 19 inches long ; 



bill 1-80, wing 13-00, tail 5-75, tarsus 2-40, middle toe aud claw 2-90. 



4. A. GELiDus Coues. 



Proc. gtlida, Gm., Lath., Vieill. Proc. flavirostris, Gould. Adamastor 

 flatir, Bp. 

 Above brown, with paler edges to the feathers ; wings and tail deep black- 

 ish brown ; below, including the under surfaces of wing and tail, white, the 

 feathers of the former with a brown longitudinal streak ; bill yellow, its tip 

 dark; 19 inches long, wing 15, tail 6'50, middle toe and claw 3'15. 



5. A. SERICEUS Bp. 



Pvff. fericeus, Lesson. 

 Bill black ; above grayish ash, deeper on the wing coverts ; below white ; 

 15 inches long, wing 11-50, tail 5, tarsus 1*75, middle toe 1-33. 



III. THIELLUS Gloger. 

 Generally like Nectris, but tail unusually long and cuneiform, being nearly 

 or quite half as long as the wing from the carpus. 



6. T. BPHENCEUS Bp. 



Bill flesh color, tinged with brown, darker on culmen and unguis. Length 

 15 to IG inches, wings about 11, bill 1*60. 



7. T. CHLOKOBHYNCHnS Bp. 



Bill greenish orange, black on oalmen and at tip. Bill 185 ; stouter than 

 in sphenurus, a little larger than that species, but the wiug usually shorter, 

 (J inch or more.) 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA. 143 



IV. KECTRIS Bp. (emend. Forst.) 



Size moderate ; xmicolor, fuliginous ; feet pale ; bill long, slender, much 

 hooked ; nasal tubes short, flat, very obliquely truncated ; tail long, rounded ; 

 tarsus about equal to middle toe without claw, (vix nisi colore fuliginoso 

 genere PuJ/ino diflerre videtur !) 



8. N. FULiGiNOSus Keys, et Bias. 



Puff. fuUginosus, Strickl. et auct. (sed non Proc. fuliginosus, Gm., Lath., 



Vieill., quae species ^' Thalassio i'^ nee Banks, [tab. 19;] nee Kuhl, 



[sp. 12] quae Pterodroma atlantica, Gould.) Puffinus major foem ! 



Teram. Puff"- cinereus foem ! Gould. 



Bill concolor with plumage; feet brownish black, internal face of tarsus and 



the webs dusky yellowish. Length 18 inches, wing 12, bill 2-00. North 



Atlantic. 



9. N. AMAtTROsoMA Coues, nov. sp. 



Bill concolor with plumage ; feet fleshy white, outer side of tarsus and 

 outer toe tinged with dusky ; inferior wing coverts mostly white ; wing 11 

 inches, tail 4-25, bill 1-70. Pacific coast of N. Amer. 



10. N. CARNEIPES Bp. 



Puff, carneipes, Gould. Prcc. carneipes, Sehlegel. Majaqueus carneipes, 

 Reich. ^' Paff. cinereus, jav. Smith." ^' Nectris gama, Bp." 

 Bill fleshy white, cnlmen and tips dusky ; legs, feet and membranes yel- 

 lowish flesh color. Length 15 inches ; length of bill, feet, wings, tail, much 

 the same asfuliginosus. Australian seas. 



11. N. TENUIROSTRIS Bp. 



Proc. tenuirostris, Temm. Puff, tenuirostris, Temm. et Schleg. "P. 



cur Ulcus, P. tristis, Musseorum." 



Very small ; bill excessively weak and slender ; wing 10 inches, tail 3'50, 



bill 1-20, tarsus 1*90. Bill dusky greenish yellow ; feet yellowish ; posterior 



edge of tarsus and under surface of webs blackish. White under wings as 



in amaurosoma. Japan. 



12. N. RREVICAUDUS Bp. 



Puff, brevicaudus, Brandt. Majaqueus brevicaudus, Reich. 

 "Blackish fuliginous, lighter beneath; bill black, yellowish at base ; feet 

 cinereous, webs yellow." (Bp.) " Australian seas." Gould, [species mihi 

 ignota.] 



V. PUFFINUS Briss. 



Moderate and small in size, bicolor, above brown or cinereus, below white. 

 Wings very long and pointed ; tail long, rounded. Feet very large ; tarsus 

 shorter than middle toe and claw ; bill long, rather slender, compressed, 

 hooked; nasal tubes short, flat, obliquely truncated; nasal septum broad, nos- 

 trils oval. 



13. P. Kunmi Boie. 



Proc. puMnus, Temm., Vieill. [1828] ; et al, auct. Europ. ; sed non Linn., 

 qua? P. anglorum, Ray. Proc. sive Puff, cinereus, Cuv., Temm., Kuhl., 

 Sctileg., Degl. et al. auct. Europ. fere omnium ; sed non Gm., Lath., 

 Vieill., Lawr. quae Adamastor cinereus, Mihi; nee Aububon et auet. 

 Amer. quae P. major. Fab. 

 Bill yellow, its nasal tubes more elevated, compressed and vertically trun- 

 cated than usual in this genus. Above light brownish ash or cinereous, each 

 feather with a lighter margin, nebulatedand undulated with pure white on sides 

 of head and neck ; posterior upper tail coverts and whole under parts, includ- 

 ing under surfaces of wings and all the under tail coverts, pure white. Tail 

 almost cuneiform ; feet weak and slender, yellowish ; outer toe and daw 

 longer than middle do. North Atlantic Ocean only. 



1864.] 




1-44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



14. P. LEUCOMELAS T5p. 



Proc. lencoinefas, Temm. 

 Smaller than P. Kuhlii ; weaker bill. Feathers of the upper parts and 

 sides of head and neck grayish white, each with a longitudinal shaft line of 

 brown. 



15. P. CREATOPUS Cooper, n. sp. [in epistolis.] 



With the general aspect of P. major. Bill short, usually swollen and stout 

 at the base, nasal tubes elevated, turgid, short. Bill yellowish flesh color. 

 Nasal tubes, culmen and tip blackish. Feet light flesh color! Upper parts 

 generally as in P. major, but no white on upper tail coverts ; no white at 

 bases of primaries ; the color of sides of head extending round on the throat, 

 with no dividing line ; and the under tail coverts entirely fuliginous black. 

 Bill along culmen 1'60 ; height at base "GO. 



16. P. MAJOR Fab. 



Proc. puffinus, Kuhl, et auct. al. aliq. Europ. (sed non Linn., Gm., Lath. 



qnae P. anglorum, Ray; nee Temm. quae Kuhlii, Boie.) Pvff- sive 



Proc. major, Auct. Ardenna major, Reich. Pvff. cinereus, Bp. [1828.J 



Audub., Nutt. non Gm. 



Above smokey brown, the feathers with lighter edges. Posterior upper tail 



coverts mostly white. A definite line of demarcation between the brown nnd 



white on the sides of the head and neck. Length 18 to 20 inches ; bill 2, 



wing 13, tarsus 2-40. 



17. P. ANGLORUM Temiu. 



Proc. anglorum, Ray. Puff, anglorum, auct. Proc. puffinus, L., Gm. 



Lath., Brunn, sed non al. auct. quae P. major. Nectris pufjlnus. Keys. 



et Bias. P. arcticus. Fab. P. Baroli, Bonelli. 



Tarsiis equal to middle toe without claw. Bill about two-thirds the tarsus, 



along culmen 1*40 inches; wing 9-25. Above very deep lustrous brownish 



black, — darker than in any other species. 



18. P. YELCUANUS Bp. 



Proc. yelkuan, Acerbi. 

 From the Mediterranean Sea.-a- Like P. anglorum, but lighter colored above, 

 the point of the wing more elongated, and lateral under tail coverts uniformly 

 deep grey. 



19. P. OBScuRus Vieill. 



Proc, ohscurus, Gm. Proc. sive Puff, obscurris, auct. Nectris ohscurm, 

 Kuhl. Ci/mostomns obscurus, MargiU. Puff. Vhcrminieri, Less. P. 

 Jloridanus, Mus. Berol. 

 Bill three-fourths as long as the tarsus. Tail very long, much graduated. 

 Above grayish, or plumbeous black, not extending on the sides of the head 

 below the eyes. Axillary feathers white. Longest posterior under tail co- 

 verts brownish black, rest white. Bill 1*25, wing 8, tail 4*25, exterior rec- 

 trices an inch shorter. Tarsus 1"60 ; middle toe and claw 1-80 — inches and 

 hundredths. 



20. P. oriSTHOMELAs Coues, nov. sp. 



From Cape St. Lucas. Generally like P. ohscurus, but larger, with a longer 

 bill and wings, a shorter, less graduated tail ; almost all the under tail co- 

 verts and axil ary feathers fuliginous black, arid a different line of demarca- 

 tion between the color of the upper and under parts on the sides of the head 

 and neck. Bill 1-40, wing 9, tarsus 1-80, middle toe and claw 2-10, tail 3-75, 

 outer rectrices only '60 hundredths of an inch shorter. 



21. P. NUGAX Bp. 



Proc. nugax, Solander. Puff, assimilis, Gould. " Proc. australis, Eyton." 



From the Australian seas. Smallest of all ; wing only 6^ inches, tail 2^, 



bill one inch, tarsus \\. The white of the under parts mounts high up on 



the sides of the head. Under tail coverts entirely white. Under surfaces of 



ianer webs of primaries dull whitish. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 145 



May %d. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Fourteen memhers present. 



Mr. Cassin informed the Academy that our late fellow member, Mr. 

 Samuel Ashmead, had bequeathed to the Academy his entire collection 

 of Algae, together with the privilege of selecting from his mineralogi- 

 cal cabinet such specimens as may be desirable. 



May V^th. 

 Vice'President Vaux in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



May 17 th. 



Mr. Lea in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " New Unionidae, 

 Melanidae, &c., chiefly of the United States." By Isaac Lea. 



May 2Uh. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " Pescriptions of new 

 marine Invertebrata from Puget's Sound, &c." By Dr. Wm. Stimp- 



SOfi. 



« 



May 31s;. 

 Vice-President Vaux in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



On Report of the respective Committees, the paper of Mr. Lea, read 

 May 17th, was ordered to be published in the Journal, and the follow- 

 ing papers in the Proceedings : 



Critical Bemarks on the Genera SEBASTES and SEBA8T0D1S of Ay^res. 



BY THEODORE GILL, 



In the Proceedings of the California Academy of Natural Sciences, "Re- 

 marks in. relation to the Fishes of California, which are included in Cuvier's 

 genus Sebastes," and subsequently, in the Proceedings of the Zoological So- 

 ciety of London, *' Notes on the Sebastoid Fishes occurring on the coBst of 

 California, U. S. A.,"* have been published by Wm. 0. Ayres, M. D., C. M. Z. S. 



* I have been favored by Prof. Baird with the advance sheets of these Proceedings. 



1864.] 10 




146' PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



■» 



The object of these memoirs is to shoTr that there are eleven species of Se- 

 bastoid fishes in the Californiau waters, distributable among two genera, dis- 

 tinguished only by the prominence or little development of spinous ridges on 

 " the top of the head." For those with ridges he reserves the name Sibas- 

 tes; for those with " little developed " ones, he accepts the name Sebastodes, pro- 

 posed for a natural genus of which S. paucispinis is the only known species. 



Rehearsing the history of Sebastodes, Dr. Ayres admits that the ^^ grouping 

 of characters" assigned to it "belongs only to the single species S. paucispinis;" 

 and also in his final paper, that "the ' minute scales' belong only to S, pauci- 

 spinis,"* and then proceeds to show that species of other genera have some 

 of the characters attributed to it ! He finally dismisses Sebastodes immedi- 

 ately after the remark that "the 'minute scales' belong only to S. paucispinis" 

 with the conclusion that "it does not seem possible, therefore, (!!) that Sebas- 

 lodes can be retained with such limits as were assigned to it by Air. Gill" ! The 

 logical character of the inference is rather dubious, after the admission of 

 the truth of a principal proposition. But for the benefit of Dr. Ayres, who 

 may doubt the value of the character, the opinion of Dr. Giinther, whose 

 authority he will scarcely gainsay, is adduced. That gentleman attributes to 

 Sebasies " scales of moderate or small size," and not minute ones like those 

 of S. paucispinis, which, although admitted in the genus by him, he had never 

 seen. Giinther has, however, shown his appreciation of the value of the 

 size of the scales in all his diagnoses of the Scorpaenoidae, and has sepa- 

 rated the Triglse of Europe into two genera solely on account of the size of 

 the scales. Therefore the single character admitted by Ayres as peculiar to 5*- 

 bastodes paucispinis would alone, in the opinion of some, entirely separate it from 

 his other species, but when it is stated that it also differs remarkably in 

 the form of the head, the skull, the preoperculum, the connection of the 

 vomer and palatine bones, the direction of the anterior teeth of the jaws, 

 the palatine rows, &c., the unnatural character of the association in one 

 genus of it and species of the ordinary Sebastoid form will be obvious. 

 Sebastodes paucispinis is decidedly the only known species of the genus. 



Dr. Ayres " refers without hesitation to the genus of which th« common 

 species of Massachusetts Bay, S. viviparus,-f is a member," the species of Scbas- 

 teids with the frontal and coronal spines moderately or extremely devel- 

 oped, stating that the difference in the number of dors^ spines, when " un- 

 supported, does not appear sufficient." In this respect also he differs widely 

 from Gunther: that author distinguishes ,Se6a«to by the number of spineg,J 

 assigning to it twelve or thirteen, and emphatically insists upon its value 

 in his remarks on the Centropogon avsfralis, — a species with fifteen spines, 

 — remarking, that "this species approaches in general habit the genera 

 Sebastes and Scorpsena, from which it must be separated on account of the 

 number of the dorsal spines, — a much more certain generic character than 

 the presence or absence of a preorbital spine, which is found in fishes that 

 cannotbe separated from Sebastes (S. nematophthalmus.)"^ Dr. Ayres will doubt- 

 less admit the justness of the denial of the pertinence of any Californian 

 species to the same genus as Sebastes with fifteen dors'al spines, when ac- 

 •quainted with this emphatic endorsement of the value of the number of dorsal 

 spines and the depreciation of the importance of the cephalic spines. It is 

 true that Dr. Giinther admits, as the first two species of Sebastes, S. norvegieus 



* Dr. Ayres has in his first article insisted that "the little 'accessory scales' mentioned by 

 flirard are not oonflncd to Ihe three species stated V'y him, but are ecmnncn to all ;" but in biB 

 final paper, he has admitted the truth of Girard's and my own descriptions. 



f Dr. Ayres has omitted to state that I was responsible for the identification of the Massacho- 

 »ett8 Sebastvs with S. vivipatus, and that his knowledge of that identity was solely derived from 

 me. 



% "One dorsal, separated by a aot«fa in a spinoos and soft portion, with twelve or thirte«n 

 «pine8." — Gthr^ ii. 96. 



I Guutber, ii. 129. 



[ May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF , PHILADELPHIA. 147 



and S. viviparus, which have " fifteen" dorsal spines, and which are indeed the 

 types of the genus, but that gentleman has shown his appreciation of the 

 value of the character, and has only been unhappy in its application : he 

 should have given a new name to the genus defined by him. Dr. Ayres has 

 omitted to inform his readers that the difference in the number of dorsal spines 

 is also supported by a corresponding diff'erence in the number of vertebrae, 

 the species of " Sebastichthys having, as far as known, only ten abdominal and 

 fourteen caudal vertebrae,"* while Sebastea has about twelve abdominal and 

 nineteen caudal vertebrae.f 



The value of the characters used to distinguish the genera Sebastes, Sebas- 

 tiehthys and Sebastodes is now indeed |0 generally conceded by scientific men, 

 that it is unnecessary to further argue in their favor. I shall only remark ' 

 that the combinatious and distinctions of forms by Dr. Ayres are alike un- 

 natural and violate all natural affinities, and that the distinctions used by 

 him to separate his genera Sebastes and Sebastodes are only of secondary value. 

 More acquaintance with the species of the family would undoubtedly con- 

 vince him of the justness of this assertion. 



Dr. Ayres has been unfortunate in at least one of his identifications, connect- 

 ing Girard's name Sebastes rosaceus with a species of " Sebastodes," with the 

 remark that " this is the species originally described by Girard under the 

 name rosaceus; and again, quite correctly, in the tenth volume of the 'Pacific 

 Railroad Reports.' " Yet S. rosaceus is said to have " the upper surface of 

 the head with horizontal and acute ridges," and is figured with such arma- 

 ture as well as with the second, instead of the third, anal spine longest, 

 the pectoral and ventrals ceasing before the vent, &c. ! Girard's Sebastes rosaceus 

 is indeed a typical Sebastes of Ayres, and entirely identical with the S. kelvo- 

 maculatus of the latter, as the examination of the two specimens known to 

 Girard has convinced me. The specimens are in poor condition, but the 

 spots are still visible. The Sebastodes rosaceus of Ayres is therefore deprived 

 of a name, and may receive that of SebastosomusX pinniger. 



It is also proper to here remark that two species are apparently confound- 

 ed by Girard under the name Sebastes melanops, one with "a small spine upon 

 the suprascapular bone, two others upon the edge of the opercle," and another 

 from Cape Flattery with the lower opercular spine as well as the supraorbital 

 ridges obsolete, and the forehead between the eyes perfectly arched. The 

 latter may be named Sebastosomus simulans. 



In conclusion, the genus Sebastichthys include^at least three genera. The Se- 

 bastichthys nigrodnctus is somewhat related to Scorpsena, and distinguished by 

 elevated, serrated coronal crests. Other Californian species represented by the 

 Sebastes melanops, seen by me, differ so much that they may be separated and 

 combined for the present under a genus Sebastosomus, of which the Sebastes 

 melanops of Girard may be taken as the type. Still others, distinguished by 

 the texture of the bones of the skull, armed orbital ridges, prefrontals, &c., 

 and represented by Sebastes rosaceus, Grd., may be named Sebastomus. In a 

 contemplated Monograph of the Scorpsenoids of California, the relations of 

 the species will be more fully discussed. 



Second Contribntion to the SELACH0L06Y of California. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Since the publication of the article "On the Classification of the Families 

 and Genera of the Squali of California, "§ additional information has been 



• Gill, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1862, p. 278. 



t The increase in the number of vertebrse in the species of Sebastes, a genus peculiar to the 

 Northern Seas, affords an excellent example of the truth of the generalisation claiming as 

 inorea«ed number of vertebrse for the cold-water representatiyes of the families of Acanthopt«ry- 

 gians. 



1 Sebastosomus, Gill. Type Stbaates melanops, Girard. 



5 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phil»., 1862, pp. 483—601. 



1864.] 




14S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



given in the "Bulletin of the Musenm of Comparative Zoology," by Mr. P. 

 W. Putnam, in a "List of Specimens sent by the Museum to different Insti- 

 tutions," and in the Proceedings of the California Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences by Dr. W. 0. Ayres.* The former enumerates the Triads semifasciataf 

 Girard, Triads Henlei, Putnam (= Rhinotriads Henlei, Gill) and Acanthias 

 Suckleyi, Girard (= Squalus Suckleyi, Gill.) Dr. Ayres has in one 

 article announced, very modestly and with scarcely a due appreciation of its 

 bearings, a startling discovery regarding the range of variation of dentition 

 in the Notidanoids, and in a subsequent communication, has informed us of 

 the discovery of a representative of the genus Alopias in the Bay of San 

 Fxanciseo. ^ 



Family ALOPECOID^. 



Genus ALOPIAS, Raf. 



We are indebted to Dr. Ayres for the " Notice of the acquisition of a speci- 

 men of Thrasher," taken in the Bay of San Francisco. The species is a 

 very close representative of the Atlantic form Ahpias vulpes, diflfering, how- 

 ever, in the proportions of the dorsal and anal fins, and in the position of 

 the branchial apertures ; the tail constitutes decidedly more than half of the 

 entire length. The specimen is about five feet in length." — {Ayres, op. cit., 

 vol. iii. p. 66.) 



Dr. Ayres has abstained from naming this species, and it may be hoped 

 that the true difierences between it and the Atlantic species will be exhibited 

 by the future nomenclator. The announcement of any difference in the posi- 

 tion of the branchial apertures from one not acquainted with the type, will 

 be viewed with much skepticism by selachologists. 



Family GALEORHINOIDJE, Gill. 



Subfamily MUSTELINE, Gill. 



Genus MUSTELUS, Cuv. 



This name may be reserved for the species distinguished by the anterior 

 position of the first dorsal fin and the unicuspid teeth of the jaws. The 

 Mustelus Icevis of Miiller and Henle is consequently excluded, the first dorsal 

 fin being nearly midways between the pectoral and ventral fins, and the teeth 

 provided with a lateral cusp in addition to the usual median one ; the foetus is 

 also intimately connected witli the uterus by means of a vitelline placenta, 

 according to Miiller and Henle, and is thus essentially distinguished from the 

 typical Musteli which resemble the other Galeorhinoids. That species is 

 therefore a peculiar generic type, and may hereafter be called Pleuracromylon 

 loevis. 



If the rule now adopted by many of invariably retaining a generic name 

 for the first species mentioned is adopted, Galcorhinus will supplant Mustelus. 

 I am not yet, however, prepared to adopt that rule, and shall for the present 

 retain the name Mustelus. Galeus cannot be used for the genus typified by 

 the Squalus galeus of Linnseus, and if Galeorhinus, which has been retained 

 for it, should be shifted to Mustelus, a new name will be demanded for the 

 former ; as it is desirable that the change should be as slight as possible, that 

 of Eugaleus may be accepted. 



Mustelus caliporniccs, Gill. 



The first dorsal fin commences over the terminal third of the inner free 



margin of the pectoral fin, and its posterior point, though acutely prolonged, 



ceases considerably in advance of the ventral fins. The anterior angle is 



blunt, but not rounded. The second dorsal is similar in form to the first, 



* Proo. 0»1. Aoad. Nat Soiences, toI. iii. pp. 15, 60. 



[May, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 149 



but smaller, and its hinder half is over the anterior two-thirds of the anal, 

 with the posterior angle of which its own is co-terminal. (The caudal fin, 

 from the front of the lower lobe to its point, equals the distance between the 

 snout and the interval between the third and fourth branchial apertures ; its 

 terminal lobe little exceeds a fourth of its length, and is squarely truncated 

 behind ?) The ventral fin has its outer margin, from the base to the angle, 

 about as wide as the width from that angle to the posterior point. The 

 length of the rostral plateau in front of the jaw equals the width between 

 the outer margins of the nos|prils and the interval between the corner folds of 

 tlie upper jaw. 



D. 18 I 17. A. 18. P. 22. 



This species is distinguished by the proportions of the snout, the more 

 acutely prolonged posterior angles of the dorsal and anal fins, and perhaps 

 the form of the terminal lobe of the caudal ; but it is probable that the latter 

 Is worn, and consequently the statement of the length of the fin and the form 

 of the posterior lobe must be accepted with reserve. The number of cartila- 

 ginous rays found after dissection of the skin is less than in the European 

 species. 



A single adult specimen was obtained by Dr. Stimpson at San Francisco, 

 during his visit to that city as a member of the Scientific Corps of the North 

 Pacific Exploring Expedition. 



From Panama, the Institution has received several specimens of a closely- 

 related species, distinguished by the projection of the posterior angle of the 

 first dorsal fin to the vertical of the origin of the ventrals, although the an- 

 terior fourth of the base of the fin is above the pectoral. The caudal fin 

 equals the distance between the snout and third branchial aperture, and its 

 terminal lobe nearly equals a third of the length, and is obliquely truncated 

 behind. The species may be named Mastelus dorsalis. 



These species are interesting as being the first species of the genus found 

 in the Pacific waters of America. The Mustelusfelis of Ayres is a species of 

 Triads ! 



Family NOTIDANOIDM, Owen. 



Genus NOTORHYNCHDS, Gill (ex Ayres). 



In the year 1855, and in the first volume of the Proceedings of the " Cali- 

 fornia Academy of Natural Sciences" (p. 73), "Dr. Wm. 0. Ayres exhibited 

 a specimen of a shark of a new generic type, with the followiug description" 

 of the genus 



" NOTORHYNCHUS, Ayres. 



*' Dorsal fin single. Branchial apertures seven on each side. Spiracles 

 two. Nostrils double, subterminal. Snout broad, depressed. Tail much 

 elongated, with the fin beneath. Teeth in several rows, those of the lower 

 jaw flattened, arched, serrated ; those of the upper jaw of diverse forms, the 

 middle ones slender, the outer ones approximating those of the lower jaw in 

 form." 



He remarked, that "the shark here described presents, certainly, a very 

 singular grouping of characters. The only genus with which it can be com- 

 pared is Cuvier's Notidanm, previously separated by Rafinesque under the 

 name of Haptranchias, both founded on Lacepede's Squalus cinereus. With this 

 our type agrees in the remarkable feature of a single dorsal fin and seven 

 branchial apertures. Bat in Notidanus /he teeth of botji jaws are represented 

 as similar inform, and the muzzle pointed, the existence of spiracles being as- 

 serted by the one author and denied by the other. We have also in our fish 

 the tail almost as much elongated as in Alopia/-.^^ 



The characters attributed to the genus Notorhynchus are common to all the 

 1864.] 




150 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



representatives of the family, except the number of branchial apertures ; in 

 which respect the genus resembles Notidanus or Heptranchias. That genus 

 has also the " teeth in several rows ; those of the lower jaw flattened, arched, 

 serrated ; those of the upper jaw of diverse forms, the middle ones slender, 

 the outer ones approximating those of the lower jaw in form ;" the "snout 

 broad, depressed ;" "spiracles two," — the invariable number when developed 

 in all fishes! — and "the tail much elongated, with the fin beneath." Noto- 

 rhynchus is therefore not distinguished by any character whatever from Hep- 

 tranchias, either in the generic or specific desci^ptions of Ayres. 



Such being the case, Girard and myself referred the species to the genus 

 Heptanchus or Heptranchius, Raf., and the justness of that reference, under 

 the circumstances, will be unhesitatingly admitted by every logical mind. 



The causes of Dr. Ayres' manifold errors in the case are unknown ; the 

 peculiarity of the dentition of the Notidanoids is described in every text-book 

 of ichthyology, and if Dr. Ayres had even consulted the Animal Kingdom, 

 of Cuvier, — accessible to English students through a number of translations, 

 his error would not have been committed. 



Subsequently, I discovered the jaws of a Notidanoid taken at Nisqually, 

 Oregon, by one of the gentlemen attached to Wilke's Exploring Expedition. 

 Finding that the teeth were generically similar to those of Heptanchus indicus 

 of Miiller and Henle, and resembled them rather than those of the typical 

 Heptanchi or Hexanchi, and, further, that the teeth of both more nearly re- 

 sembled those of Hexanchus than Heptanchus, I felt compelled to combine the 

 two species in a peculiar genus. I thus connected the views of Miiller and 

 Henle and others regarding the generic value of the number of branchial 

 apertures with those of Bonaparte as to the generic value of the dentition. 

 As the Heptanchus indicus was known to be " dark bluish grey above, with 

 numerous small, irregular, black blotches, lighter beneath," the coloration 

 attributed by Ayres to his Notorhynchus maculatus, I ventured to refer the 

 jaws of the Nisqually shark to that species, since color is generally coinci- 

 dent with structure ; the limited number of species of Notidanoids, the absence, 

 so far as known, of two closely-related representatives in a single Fauna, and 

 the occurrence of Ayres' species in the same faunal region as the Nisqually 

 shark, appeared to warrant this identification, the necessity of confirmation 

 of which, however, I did then, as I now do, emphatically insist upon. I 

 therefore perfectly agree with Dr. Ayres as to the impossibility of certainty 

 *' when [his] description is so extremely indefinite," and, in order that 

 farther cavil at the identification of the Nisqually shark with Notorhynchus 

 maculatus may be avoided, suggest that the former may be named Notorhynchus 

 borealis. 



Having previously identified the Nisqually shark with the Californian 

 Notidanoid — erroneously it may be — I felt compelled to retain Ayres' name, 

 and did not detail the history of the genus, as such would have involved the ne- 

 cessity of criticism, but simply remarked that the name "was proposed by Dr. 

 Ayres under a misapprehension." 



Immediately after the publication of my article, Dr. Ayres* insinuated 

 that his name was not given under a misapprehension, and asserted that 

 his "' misapprehension' was, that (he) regarded the species as the type of 

 a new genus. ' ' Such misapprehension is of course evident, but I cannot perceive 

 why the name should be considered apart from the idea of the genus. I in- 

 deed think that the name itself, considered in the abstract, is objectionable 

 and rather unmeaning if not, indeed, more censurable. The etymology of 

 the name is not obvious; its formation would indicate that it meant " back 

 snout, or beak," but it is possible that it is composed of vefloc and pvyx"^! ^^ 

 allusion to the protuberant snout. 



* Proc. CsliforDia Acad. Nat. Sdences, lii. p. 15. 



FMay, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Wl 



Dr. Ayres then implies that it is only after several changes that I have ar- 

 rived at the conclusion regarding the generic distinction of Notorhynchus. I 

 have had two opinions, one, before seeing the species, that it was a Heptran- 

 chias of Rafinesque or Hnptanchus of Mdller, — accepting the views of Miiller 

 and Henle, Gray, Girard, &c., — and the final one, after study of the Nisqually 

 jaw, that it was the representative of a distinct genus. For that genus I 

 have adopted Ayres' name, but by no means the ideas connected with it by 

 him. 



One statement of Dr. Ayres is especially entitled to attention, as, if cor- 

 roborated, it must eflFect an entire revolution in our views respecting the value 

 of dentition, and is entirely opposed to the experience of Miiller and Henle, 

 Bonaparte, Agassiz, and all others. He remarks that my description of the 

 dentition " represents the individual specimen on which it was founded ; but 

 the species is quite common here, and I find that the number and the forms 

 of the teeth vary so much that my original description, which Mr. Gill says 

 is * equally applicable to any species of the family,' is fully as close as nature 

 will allow us to draw." It is certainly rather unfortunate for science, as well 

 as himself, that Dr. Ayres has omitted to produce proof of so remarkable a 

 discovery, as, on account of the respectability and number of the gentlemen 

 alluded to who have adopted other views, and in deference to whom reasons 

 might be assigned, it will be regarded with at least some doubt and skepti- 

 cism, notwithstanding even Dr. Ayres' assertion. It is scarcely necessary to 

 remark, that if this discovery is confirmed, Notorhynchus must be suppressed 

 and its species referred to Heptranchias ; but until such is done, it may, with- 

 out any imputation on the perfect reliability of Dr. Ayres, be retained, since 

 that learned gentleman has himself done so, notwithstanding his discovery 

 and the admission of a misapprehension in regarding its representative as 

 the type of a new genus. 



June 1th. 

 Mr. Jeanes in the Chair. 

 Seven members present. 



Mr. Gill called the attention of the members to several points in Ichthy- 

 ology and Conchology. He exhibited from the collection of the Academy a 

 specimen of a species oi Percopsis obtained by Surgeon General Hammond in 

 Kansas. The differences between it and the Percopsis guttatus, Ag., of Lake 

 Superior, also exhibited, were strong ; the head is larger, (contained 3|^ times 

 in the length, exclusive of caudal ;) the dorsal is higher, (the longest ray equal 

 to 4§ of length ;) the anal is also higher, (the longest ray contained six times 

 in length ;) the pectoral equals the height of the dorsal (=4§ ;) the ventral 

 especially is longest, contained 5| times in the length, and its extremity covers 

 the anus, which is nearer the snout than the margin of the caudal fin. The 

 species may be named, in honor of its distinguished discoverer, Percopsis 

 Hammondii. 



Mr. Gill remarked that, after an examination of the species of Sodis^ Raf., 

 and Paralepis, Guv., in the collection of the Academy, he was convinced that 

 the families of Paralepidoids and Alepidosauroids were most closely allied. 



Mr. Gill next referred to the history of the name Gymnotus, showing that it 

 had been originally founded solely on the Gymnotus carapus, and that even 

 after the introduction of the Gymnotus electricus into the system, the G. carapus 

 was retained as the first of the genus. The retention of the name Gymnotus 

 for the G. electricus and the bestowal of a new one on G. carapus are therefore 

 obvious infractions pf the laws of nomenclature. The name Gymnotus must 

 be retained for G. carapus, and a new one given to the Gymnotus electricus, Linn. 



1864.] 




IM PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



That of BleeirophoTua will be appropriate. This change is the less to be re- 

 gretted, as the nomenclature of earapus is in a confused state, that name having 

 been previously applied by Rafinesque to a species of the genus Fierasfer. Mr. 

 Gill gave an enumeration of the genera of Gymnotoids, admitting the genera 

 Meetrophorus, Gymnotes, Gill, (Gymnotus aequilabiatus. Humb.,) Gymnotus, Art,, 

 (=Carapus,) Sternopygus, M.T., Hypopomus, Gill, (Rhamphichthys Mullcri, Kaup,) 

 jRhamphichthys, M. T., Sternarchus, Schneid., and Sternarchorhynchut, Cast. Mr. 

 Gill concluded by suggesting that the Gymnotoids were perhaps related to 

 the Nematognathi, and remarked that he knew several undescribed species. 



Mr. Gill next called attention to the fact that the genus for which the name 

 Melantho had been recently accepted from Bowdich, had long before been 

 characterized under the name Campeloma by Rafinesque. In June, 1819, in 

 the 88th volume of the Journal de Physique, (p. 423,) that type is introduced 

 in the following terms : 



(26) Campeloma. Test ovale. Ouverture ovale, base tronqu^e, lievres r^- 

 fi^chies, flexeuses, unies en pointe postdrieurement. Point d'ombilic. Ani- 

 mal inconnu. J'en ai une seule esp^ce trouv^e dans I'Ohio. 0. crassula. 4 

 tours de spires contraires, sommet aigu, test epais, ouverture plus de la moitife 

 de la longueur totale. 



This diagnosis is evidently only applicable to a Viviparoid, and was doubt- 

 less founded on a reversed specimen of the Paludina ponderosa'of Say, or a 

 closely related species. The name has indeed been referred, by the erudite 

 Hermannsen, to the synonymy of Melanopais, and in this he has beea followed 

 by the brothers Adams, but the diagnosis, as well as the habitat, cannot sup- 

 port such a reference. 



In advance of the publication of the generic name Campeloma, Rafinesque 

 had proposed a new genus — Amblozis — in the third volume of the "American 

 Monthly Magazine and Critical Review," (p. 355, Sept., 1818,) which was also 

 doubtless intended for the Paludina ponderosa and its congeners,* but the in- 

 sufficiency of his generic diagnosis, as well as the want of connection with 

 any described species, will prevent its adoption. 



The speaker remarked that he would not attempt to enumerate the species 

 of Campeloma, as he could not agree with previous authors regarding their 

 limits, and had not the material to arrive at a satisfactory opinion himself; 

 he could therefore only refer to the genus an assemblage of forms represented 

 by the same specific names as were formerly placed under Melantho, after the 

 exclusion of Paludina Elliottii of Lea, which probably belongs to the geaus 

 Lioplax. The names referred to the synonymy of the other species mentioned 

 under that genus appear to represent forms of the genus, with the exceptions 

 of Paludina cornea, Val., and Lymnula ventricosa, Raf. The former name wag 

 doubtless proposed for the Lioplax subcarrnata, having the " sutures deeply im- 

 pressed," and the " ramjoe " around the spire being especially characteristic 

 of that shell. The Lymnula ventricosa was probably founded on Anculosa prat' 

 rosa, or an allied species. 



June 14:(h. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " On the Influence 

 of the Earth's Atmosphere on the Color of the Stars." By Jacob 

 Ennis. 



• III. G. Ambloxis. Vnivalve. Shell thick oboval ; month oval, rounded at the basie, obtnM 

 above, with a thick appendage of the lip ; columellA fl«xuou»; a smaU xugoae umbilicus. 2 speci«« 

 —1. A. ebumea ; 2. A. ventricosa, Kaf. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES Of PHILADELPHIA. 163 



June 21s/. ' 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 



June l^th. 

 Dr. Garson in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



A letter was read from Thos. B. Wilson, M. D., of date June 28th, 

 1864, tendering his resignation as President of the Academy. 



On report of the respective committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published in the Proceedings : 



Descriptions of bow species of Karine INYEBTEBBATA from Paget Sound, 

 collected by the Naturalists of the North-west Boandary Commission, A. H. 

 Campbell, Esq., Commissioner. 



BY DR. WM. STIMPSON. 



The folloiviDg descriptions are extracted, by perinlfision, from tje Zoological Report of the Boun- 

 dary ConiBiiusion. They were written in the year 1860, and accompanied by illustrative drawings 

 of aJl the speoiea, which, it may be hoped, wiU hood be published. 



CRUSTACEA. 

 EnPAGUKUs Ebnneklti. 



Carapax smooth, except where the setae are attached. Median tooth of the 

 front nearly obsolete ; lateral teeth small but sharp and well-marked. Eyes 

 moderately long and slender, but not longer than the peduncle of the outer 

 antennae ; cornea little dilated, with a tuft of hair at the apex. Acicles small, 

 pilose, not reaching the tips of the eyes. Feet all very hairy. Chelipeds 

 short and stout, both falling considerably short of the exti^emities of the am- 

 bulatory feet, and strongly but not very thickly armed with short spines. 

 In the greater cheliped the carpus is about as long as the palm of the hand ; 

 fingers shorter than the palm ; two distinct rows of sharp tubercles on the 

 dactylus. Smaller cheliped hardly reaching to the middle of the dactylus of 

 the greater one, convex, or with an obtuse median carina armed with strong 

 spines. There are no prominent spines or tubercles on the inferior surface 

 of the merus and carpus in either cheliped. Color of hands in alcoholic spe- 

 cimens light red. 



Length 2 inches ; length of carapax, 0*4 ; of right carpus and hand together 

 0-51 inch. 



An orthodactyle species, near E. pubescentulus, but with shorter and strongly 

 spinous chelipeds. We have named it after the late lamented naturalist who 

 discovered it. 



HlPPOIiYTE PBIONOTA. 



A short, plump species. Carapax with a high, compressed back, crested 

 nearly the whole length, somewhat channelled longitudinally on each side 

 near the crest, and armed with three spines in a longitudinal row above 

 and behind the eyes ; also with a strong antennal and a pterygostomian spine. 

 Dorsal crest not sharp and lamelliform, but armed with four strong teeth, the 

 front edges of which are beset with aculei, which, especially in the posterior 

 teeth, form a transverse row when viewed from above. Rostrum more than 

 half as long as the carapax, lamelliform, very broad, though not as broad as 



1864.] 




154 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



long ; its front outline blunt, triangular or rounded ; whole upper front and 

 end margin minutely serrated with hispidiform teeth ; lower margin with 

 four small simple ones near the end. Eye with a spine at the inner apex; 

 squamiform appendix to the antennae elongate-triangular in shape, with 

 pointed end, not reaching beyond the rostrum. External maxillipeds reach- 

 ing nearly to extremity of rostrum, and provided with both exognath and 

 epignath ; antepenult joint broad, with a strong spine at the external apex. 

 Feet of the first, second and third pairs provided with an epipod. Abdomen 

 with the dorsum rounded; third joint a little prominent, with an obtusely 

 triangular, not conspicuous tooth at the posterior margin ; lower margiua 

 of the segments smooth and obtuse, except the fourth and fifth, which form 

 teeth. Four pairs of dorsal aculei on the terminal joint. Length about one 

 inch. 



Easily distinguished from the other North Pacific lamelli-rostral species by 

 the serrated margins of the dorsal teeth and rostrum. It approaches nearest 

 to H. spina (Sower bei),hnt has three supra-orbital spines instead of two. From 

 H. pectenifera it differs in the non-peetinated margins of the abdomen. 



Seven specimens of this fine species were dredged in February and March, 

 by Lieut. White, in different parts of the Sound, viz., in Hale's Passage, 10 

 fathoms, soft bottom ; off Lummi L, in 8 — 12 fathoms, shelly; near San Juan 

 I., in 2 — 4 fathoms, mud. 



HiPPOLYTB SCCKLETI. 



Carapax with the anterior half of the dorsum crested and sloping forward ; 

 no supra-orbital spines ; a strong antennal and pterygostomian spine present. 

 Fourth joint of abdomen acute below. Rostrum large, but scarcely as long 

 as the carapax, curved, rather broad and lamelliform, with a slender acute 

 tip ; lower margin four-toothed ; upper margin including crest of carapax six- 

 toothed, beginning at the anterior third of the length of the rostrum. External 

 maxillipeds of moderate size, reaching nearly to extremity of antennary ap- 

 pendix, and provided with both exognath and epignath. Feet long, the last 

 pair reaching nearly to the tip of the rostrum ; first pair only provided with an 

 epipod ; dactyli of the last three pairs elongated, with only one terminal un- 

 guiculus. Abdominal segments with smooth edges ; superior margin of third 

 segment obtuse, length 1^ inches. 



In the characters of the dorsal crest and rostrum it is much like H. Gai- 

 mardi, but it has no spine over the eye. From II. Fabricii it differs in having 

 more numerous teeth on the superior margin of the rostrum, some of which 

 are placed nearer to its extremity. It has less numerous superior teeth than 

 occur in H. Layi. 



Dredged in the circumlittoral zone. We have conferred upon this species 

 the name of our friend Dr. Suckley, one of the earliest and most successful 

 investigators of Pugettian Zoology. 



HlPPOLYTE STYLUS. 



Body slender ; abdomen strongly genticulated. Carapax smooth ; back not 

 crested except for a short distance anteriorly. There is an antennal spine, 

 but neither supra-orbital nor pterygostomian. Rostrum slender, somewhat 

 styliform, perfectly straight, and equal to the carapax in length ; it is armed 

 above with four or five teeth near the base, while the anterior two-thirds is 

 edentulous ; belov there are five or six teeth. Antennary appendix oblong, 

 scarcely shorter than the rostrum, and obliquely truncate at the end. Exter- 

 nal maxillipeds very small, reaching only to the extremity of the peduncle of 

 the antennae, or to the basal third of the rostrum ; they are provided with an 

 epignath, but no exognath. None of the feet have an epipod. Terminal joint 

 of the abdomen with four pairs of dorsal aculei. Length \\ inches. 



Taken in the Straits of De Fuca by the U. S. Exploring Expedition. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



HiPPOLYTB GRACILIS. 



This is the most slender species which has come under our notice. The cara- 

 pax is crested at the anterior third ; there are no supra-orbital spines, but the 

 antennal and pterygostomian spines are present, the latter spine being high 

 in position from the narrowness or little height of the carapax. Rostrum 

 exceedingly slender, scarce higher than wide, curved, a little longer than the 

 carapax, and armed with four teeth over the eye ; elsewhere smooth to the 

 tip ; below there are four minute distant teeth. The antennulae are rather 

 long, the thick flagellum reaching to the extremity of the rostrum. Anten- 

 nary appendage a little longer than the rostrum. The external maxillipeds 

 reach to the middle of the rostrum and have no exognath ; the epignath per- 

 haps exists, but we have been unable to discover it in our specimens. The 

 feet are very sl«nder, and none of them have an epipod. The abdomen is 

 very long and strongly geniculated. Third segment compressed and promi- 

 nent, as in Pandalus; penult joint much elongated. Length \\ inches. 



Found in deep water. 



Idothba Whitei. 



Body slender ; sides slightly convex ; head large. Outer antenna; nearly 

 two-thirds as long as the body ; the flagellum equalling the peduncle in 

 length and composed of from sixteen to eighteen joints. First thoracic seg- 

 ment short, less than two-thirds as long as the second. Abdomen segmented 

 as in 1. Woanessenskii and the others of this group ; it is one-half longer than 

 broad, slightly narrowing posteriorly, with the extremity rounded, truncate, 

 and bluntly acuminated at the middle. Feet moderately stout. Color yel- 

 lowish, minutely punctate with dark gray. Length of body 0-81 ; length of 

 abdomen 0-27 inclies. . 



It is allied to /. Wosnessenskii, but is very much more elongated. It differs 

 from I. media, following Dana's description, in its much longer antennae. 



We have dedicated this species to Lieut. J. W. White, who commanded the 

 Revenue Cutter in the Sound while the Boundary Survey was in progress, 

 and who rendered essential aid to the Naturalists of the Survey, by dredging 

 many of the most interesting novelties which were obtained. 



Idothea urotoma. 



Body nearly linear, nearly five times as long as broad, broadest at the sixth 

 thoracic segment. External antennae a little more than one-half as long as 

 the body ; last two joints of the peduncle subequal ; flagellum a little shorter 

 than the peduncle and ten-jointed. Abdomen consisting, as in the others of 

 the group, of three joints, with the partial separation of a fourth ; subrectan- 

 gular with convex extremities, and scarcely less broad at its truncate poste- 

 rior extremity than at the anterior. The posterior extremity is peculiar in 

 shape, the angle on either side projecting strongly, and separated by a notch 

 from the convex or subtriangular middle portion, which bears a small tooth 

 at the middle. The opercular abdominal feet which cover the branchial or 

 swimming feet are large, nearly covering the entire under side of the abdo- 

 men. Thoracic feet slender. Length of the body 0-75; greatest breadth 0-17 ; 

 length of the abdomen 0-20 inch. 



We find no note of the depth of water in which this species was dredged. 



Aega belliceps. 



Smooth, subelliptical, and pointed anteriorly. Head with a small, short, 

 blunt, rostriform process over the base of the superior antennae. Eyes ovate, 

 very large, but distant, and beautifully granulated (facetted). Thorax rather 

 broad ; segments each marked with scattered impressed punctae, mostly in a 

 transverse row. Abdominal segments five in number, the terminal one scuti- 



1864.] 




156 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



f 

 orm, with its margin entire ; apex obtuse. In the alcoholic specimens the 



color of the body is yellowish-gray, clouded; lateral margins with a series of 



black spots or blotches ; base of abdomen black; caudal segments edged with 



blackish ; eyes blue. Length of the body 0-76 ; greatest breadth 0-37 ; length 



of caudal segments 0-20 inch. 



Two specimens are in the collection. It is perhaps an Acherusia, but we 



have access to no figure or description of that genus of Lucas. 



BOPYROIDES A0UT1MAKGINATU3, UOV. gen. Ct Sp. 



We propose this name for a new parasitic anisopod which we are unable 

 to refer to any genus hitherto established, though it approaches very closely 

 to Bopyrui in form, and indeed in all its characters, except that the abdomi- 

 nal branchiae of the female are rudimentary, being merely transverse fleshy 

 ridges, instead of laminae. The upper surface, except the somewhat convex 

 head, is flat and smooth, with the segments sharply defined. The margins of 

 the body are very acute and somewhat recurved, especially at the head. The 

 abdomen is distinctly six-articulated, the joints being indicated by deep in- 

 cisions around the entire margin, dividing it into eleven subequal parts, so 

 that the terminal joint is very small, no larger than a lateral extremity of one 

 of the preceding ones. It is 0-29 inch in length, and 0'21 in greatest breadth. 



It is found in the branchial cavity of Hippolyte brevirostris. 



Bopyrui hippolytes Kroyer, belongs properly to the same genus. From this 

 species ours differs in the acuteness of the margins and in the sharply square- 

 eut lateral estrewiities of the abdominal segmeats. 



• Caprella KennkriiYI. 



A large, pellucid species. Head armed with two small slender spines 

 above, in a transverse line over the eyes. No spines on the first thoracic 

 segment, and scarcely any on the second. The remaining segments, how- 

 ever, are armed with strong sharp tubercles on the sides, and a few smaller 

 Ones above. These tubercles become progressively sharper posteriorly. Su/- 

 perior antennae about one-half as long as the body ; peduncle very thick 

 and strong, with the first joint shorter than the second, and the last joint 

 two-thirds as long as the second ; flagellum very thin, filiform, equalling in 

 length the last joint of the peduncle, and consisting of twenty joints. Inferior 

 antennae small, reaching the middle of the second joint of the superior anten- 

 Skae, subpediform, and setose below. Branchial vesicles subovate, one-half 

 longer than broad. Hand of the second pair of feet elongated, nearly three 

 times as long as broad, thick and armed with two or three small slender teeth 

 ftn the concave palm. Feet of the three posterior pairs short. 



Length of the body 1-1 ; of the superior antennae 0'52 ; of the first and 

 second thoraeic segments taken together 0*44 inch. The description is that 

 of a male. 



Found on the bottom of the Berenue Cutter f)^ Port Townsend. 



AUPHITHOB BCUSRALIS. 



• 



feody pobast, entire ; dorsum rounded, smooth and unarmed. Eye of mode- 

 rate size, rounded, situated on a short projection of the head between the 

 bases of the snperior and inferior antennae. Superior antenna nearly as long 

 as the body, the peduncle constituting less than one-third of its length ; fla- 

 gellum tapering to an exceedingly fine extremity. Inferior antenna half as 

 long as the body, with its flagellum no longer than the antepenult joint of 

 the peduncle. Epimera of the fifth pair large. Gnathopoda, or feet of the first 

 two pair, with rather small, weak, subpediform hands in both sexes ; those of 

 the third and fourth pairs with the basal joint very large and much expanded, 

 Kearly as broad as tkeir epimera ; mecos-joint in the same pairs small, com- 



[June, 




NATURAL SGIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



pressed, with a sharp arcuated anterior margin. Caudal stylets all witb 

 equal rami ; last pair with the rami very short and flattened, the outer one 

 armed with small hooks at its extremity. Telson small, obtuse-triangular. 



Length of the body in a female, 1-2 ; height at the fifth thoracic segment, 

 epimera included, 0-25 inch. 



Found about low-water mark. 



Ahonyx piligeb. 



Head with a strong triangular process on each side beneath the base of the 

 superior antennae ; extremity of this process not acute. Superior antennas 

 very short, about as long as the head, with a long, thick pencil of hair on th© 

 inner side of each ; basal joint large, with a strong protuberance above, 

 forming a prominent angle at its anterior extremity ; flagellum seven-jointed, 

 the first joint constituting one-third of its length ; accessary flagellum tri- 

 articulate. Inferior antennae longer than the body; the peduncle, however, 

 constitutes but a small part of their length, being but little larger than the 

 superior antennae ; the very slender filiform flagellum appears as if serrated 

 above, but is not provided with calceolas. The first pair of feet in our sin- 

 gle specimen appear to be pointed and simple, the dactylus not being re- 

 tracted against the manus, which has no palm ; second pair with a minute 

 truncate hand, supporting a small tuft of hair at the base of the dactylua. 



The dorsum in this species is sharp, or carinated, but not dentated, being 

 entire and smooth in outline for the greater part of its length, and similar in 

 the thoracic and first three abdominal segments. There is, however, a deep, 

 triangular sinus between the third and fourth abdominal segments, the latter 

 being strongly protuberant, projecting over theory small fifth segment. The 

 second abdominal segment is subtruncate below, and has a deep semicircular 

 sinus on the anterior lateral margin, near its lower extremity. Rami of the 

 last pair of caudal stylets shorter than those of the second pair, and telson 

 rather elongated and slit in two down the middle. 



Length about one-third of an inch. 



It resembles an English species of which a figure has been privately circu- 

 lated by C. Spence Bate, Esq., under the name of " LysianastA chausica M. 

 Edw." 



Dredged in deep water, by Lieut. White. 



6AMMAR17S SUBTfNER. 



A small, compressed species of rather soft and delicate stractute. Dorsum 

 rounded. Epimera moderately large. Eye broad-oval, nearly round. An- 

 tennae of both pairs very slender ; superior ones ae long as the body. Basal 

 joint more than twice as thick as the next, but shorter ; third joint less than 

 half as long as the second ; flagellum with about thirty articulations ; acces- 

 sory flagellum nearly twice as long as the last joint of the peduncle. 



Inferior antennae nearly three-fourths as long as the superior ones ; first 

 joint of the peduncle armed beneath with a sharp process, which nearly 

 reaches the end of the second ; third joint more than twice as long as the 

 first ; fourth shorter than third ; flagellum two-thirds as long as the pe^- 

 duncle. 



Second gnathopod. with, merus and carpaa, acute below ; hand subovate, 

 twice as long as broad; palm oblique, with a small, Sharp tooth at its pos- 

 terior extremity, reached by the tip of the finger when closed. First, second 

 and third joints of the abdomen armed above with a sharp central spine on 

 the posterior margin, and with four or five minute spines, or sharp comb-like 

 teeth on each side of the middle spine, the margin bearing these latter spines 

 being a little concave. At the corresponding part of the fourth and fifth ab- 

 dominal segments, there are also two or three spinas. similar to the oentrAl 



1864.] 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



spine of the other segments, though not quite bo large. Telson bifid, the 

 forks rather elongated. Color of the alcoholic specimens greenish-grey, 

 mottled with paler and darker patches. Length about two-fifths of an inch. 



Although we have not seen the posterior pair of caudal stylets in this spe- 

 cies, which are lost in both our specimens, we have little doubt that it is 

 closely allied to G. longicauda Brandt, which inhabits the Asiatic coast of 

 the North Pacific, in which these stylets are very long. It differs from the 

 Asiatic species in having a spine at the extremity of the palm in the greater 

 gnathopod, in the shorter terminal joint of the peduncle of the superior an- 

 tennae, in the basal spine of the inferior antennae, and in the arrangement of 

 the dorsal spines of the abdomen. 



This species inhabits the circumlittoral zone. 



Amphithonotus sbptihdentatits. 



Strongly compressed and carinated, like A. carinata ; carina dentated pos- 

 teriorly, the last two thoracic, and first five abdominal segments terminating 

 posteriorly in teeth ; last two teeth very much projecting and sharp. Head 

 with a deep notch or sinus on the front margin, near the inferior angle, at 

 the insertion of the inferior antennae. Rostrum rather slender, sharp, a 

 little curving downward, and reaching to a little beyond the middle of the 

 first joint of the superior antennae. Eye moderately large, oval, and oblique 

 in position. Antennae about one-third as long as the body ; the superior 

 ones with flagellum of eleven joints ; inferior ones about as long as the su- 

 perior, with a forward-pointing spine at the base below, and a seven-jointed 

 flagellum. 



Gnathopoda with small bu# well-formed subcheliform hands ; remaining 

 feet as usual in A. carinatus and the other species of the group. Length half 

 an inch. 



Found at and below low-water mark. 



Amphithonotus occidentalis. 



Closely allied to the arctic A. panopla Kt., and the east-coast species, A. 

 eataphractus Stm., but differing from both in being more elongated, having 

 less height and breadth. It also differs from the latter species in being less 

 strongly carinated and dentated ; but the carinae are sharper than in A. part- 

 opla, and the two teeth on the second abdominal segment are especially 

 prominent. The integuments are rather less indurated than in the allied 

 species. The superior antennae are a little longer than the inferior, but 

 scarcely more than one-fourth as long as the body. 



Length from tip of rostrum to tip of telson, 0-76 ; greatest breadth, 0*21 ; 

 height, 0-24 inch. 



Two specimens were brought home by the Boundary Commission. 



Ampblisca pugetica. 



Head not much produced. Antennae of both pairs very slender ; superior 

 ones less than half as long as the inferior ones, with the basal joint very 

 thick, twice as thick, though only half as long, as the next joint. Superior 

 antennae four-fifths as long as the body ; peduncle long, smooth above. 

 Dorsum of the thorax and abdomen for the most part smooth and rounded, 

 but the last three joints of the abdomen are separated from the preceding 

 ones by a deep notch, and -project into two sharp teeth. Terminal joint 

 in the third and fourth pairs of feet, one-half longer than the two preceding 

 joints together. In the seventh pair of feet the meros-joint is expanded pos- 

 teriorly into an ovate lamina, fringed with plumose setae, as in A laevigata. 

 Posterior margin of the third abdominal segment with a small notch just 

 above the inferior angle. Last pair of caudal stylets large, with rami much 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



longer than those of the two preceding pairs. Telson oblong, narrower and 

 less tapering than in most species of the genus. 



Length 0-45 inch. 



Dredged in ten fathoms, on a muddy bottom, in Hale's Passage, by Lieut. 

 White. 



Ammothba longicaudata. 



Body broad, robust, hispid above. Eye placed on a high papilla, and 

 double, or divided in two longitudinally. Chelate "antennae" much shorter 

 than the proboscis ; their slender lower branch, however, is much longer, 

 nine jointed, not tapering, and with blunt extremity. Proboscis large, very 

 Btout, elliptical in outline. Feet rather thick, fourth joint stoutest ; upper 

 surfaces sparsely hispid; basal joints armed vMth slight dentiform protuber- 

 ances, ovigerous feet of moderate length. Abdomen large, half as long as the 

 body. Diameter nearly three-fourths of an inch. 



We know the genus Ammothea of Leach only by the short diagnosis of 

 Dana, in the U. S. Exploring Expedition, Crust, ii., p. 1390 (" Nympho afBnis. 

 Ramus antennae longior, 9-articulatus,") and may be wrong in referring this 

 species to it. One specimen occurs in the collection. 



GEPHYREA. 



PHASOOtOSOMUM EXASPEBATUH. 



Body brownish, curved in the form of an arc, and thickest near the poste- 

 rior extremity. Surface wrinkled transversely and covered with small black- 

 ish grains, about one- sixtieth of an inch in diameter, rather larger and less 

 crowded posteriorly, and smaller and less numerous on the concave than on 

 the convex side. Proboscis bluish-white, with numerous irregular transverse 

 blackish bands, interrupted on the concave side. The proboscis being par- 

 tially retracted in our single specimen, we are unable to see its extremity dis- 

 tinctly, but it seems to have a series of six or eight crowded rings of minute 

 blackish echinulations next the mouth, as in the allied forms. 



Length 2 inches ; thickness of the body, 0-46; thickness of proboscis, 0-2 

 inch. 



Stkrnaspis apfisis. 



Almost identical with S.fossor Stm., from Massachusetts Bay, but with th« 

 body smoother about the middle, where there is no trace of the echinated an- 

 Buli, which may be discerned even on the middle segments in S./otsor. 



Found in muddy bottoms in from ten to twenty fathoms. 



Dredged by Lieut. J. W. White. 



TUNICATA. 

 Cynthia hacstor. 

 Body globular, strongly and coarsely corrugated in an irregularly reticu- 

 lating manner, with the interstices deep and the prominent parts covered with 

 coarse sand, strongly agglutinated. Apertures at the extremities of long cy- 

 lindrical tubes, nearly equalling in length the diameter of the body. These 

 tubes are wrinkled transversely, and are from one-third to one-half as thick 

 tiS they are long. The branchial tube is considerably longer than the anal. 

 Diameter about two inches. % 



With the next species, this forms masses which are found somewhat abun- 

 dantly on shelly bottoms in the circumlittoral zone in Puget Sound. 



Cynthia Gibbsii. 



Body elongated, attached at one end, more or less cylindrical, or somewhat 

 •ppree^ed and, when contracted, half as thick as long. Surface free from 



1864.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



eacrusting matters, corrugated both longitudinally and transversely ; the 

 longitudinal plications are frequently strongest and most regular, but often 

 they are rendered irregular or nearly obliterated by the transverse ones. 

 The apertures are placed near together at the extremity of the body on 

 slight protuberances, which are probably produced in life into short tubes. 

 Branchial sac with ten slight longitudinal folds, not lamelliform ; filaments 

 at its summit numerous, small, slender and simple. 



The largest specimen is 1'4 inch in length, and 0-6 in breadth. 



According to Dr. Kennerly's notes, this species was dredged by Lieut. 

 White at the following places : Port Townsend, in 4 fathoms, shelly bottom, 

 and also on a muddy bottom in 10 fathoms. Off the N. W. end of Lummi 

 Island, in 15 fathoms, shelly bottom. 



The dedication of this fine species to one so well known upon the survey as 

 Mr. George Gibbs, is scarcely necessary to indicate the great interest he has 

 taken in its scientific results. 



Cynthia cokiacea. 



A tough, unornamental 8p«cie3, with no very strongly marked characters. 

 It is irregularly egg-shaped, and attached by a broad surface on the right 

 side of the body. The test is free from agglutinated matters, smooth, and 

 scarcely at all wrinkled, except about the apertures, which are on rather large 

 protuberances, probably extensible in life into short tubes. The branchial 

 aperture is largest, and situated at the extremity of the body ; the anal a 

 little behind the middle of the upper side. Branchial sac with about the 

 same number of folds as in the preceding species, which are, however, very 

 prominent and lamelliform, being broad«r than half the width of the inter- 

 spaces. The filaments at the summit of the branchial sac appear to be few, 

 and shaped like the palpi of the bivalve acephala. 



From the slight indications yet observable in the sptecimen, it would seem 

 to have been of a reddish color when alive. 



It was found upon the "shore of Island No. 2, off Salt Spring Island, March 

 9, 1859," by Lieut. White, of the Revenue Cutter. 



Cynthia villosa. 



Of similar size, and allied to the G. echinata of the North Atlantic, of which 

 this is the analogue or representative species on the west coast. It is, how- 

 ever, easily to be distinguished from that species by the character of the vil- 

 losity or short, hair-like processes with which the test is covered. These are 

 shorter, more numerous than in C. echinata, and not provided with radiating 

 hairs at the summit, being simply tapering to a fine extremity, and sparsely 

 pubescent on their sides. 



The base of attachment in this species is very small, and the test at that 

 point is produced into a peduncle, which is sometimes as long as the body is 

 thick. This peduncle is, however, entirely similar to the test in character, 

 and not at all like that of BMenia. Our largest specimen is about 0*6 inch 

 in diameter. 



Dredged by Lieut. White in " Port Townsend, 10 fathoms, muddy bottom," 

 and "off the N. W. end of Lummi Island, in from 8 to 15 fathoms, on shelly 

 bottoms, March 2d and Feb. 22d, 1859." 



Genus CHELYSOMA, Brod. and Sow. 



The "tortoise-shell" Ascidians, which form the curious arctic genus 

 Chelysoma, have the posterior extremity of the body flattened, forming an 

 oval disk with a raised margin, and the surface divided into polygonal plates. 

 But two species havo been hitherto known, the C. Macleayana, from Green- 

 land, and C. geomelriea [Atcidia geometrka Stm., Mar. Invert, of Gr. Maaftn.) 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 161 



from the Bay of Fundy. We hare a third species from Behring's Straits, and 

 that described below makes a fourth. 



Chelysoma pboducta. 



All other known species of this genus are remarkable among Ascidians for 

 their depressed form, the body being very short, sessile, attached by their 

 flattened anterior extremity, to which the broad disk is parallel, and forms 

 nearly the whole of the part of the .body which is exposed to view. In O. 

 producta, on the contrary, the anterior part of the body is much produced, 

 laterally compressed, and longer than the disk is broad, while its attachment 

 is inferior and usually very narrow. In well-formed specimens the dorsum 

 is compressed and arched with a well-marked carina, beneath and parallel 

 with which the rectum may be seen through the translucent test. The disk 

 is obliquely placed, and its margin projects strongly beyond the sides of the 

 body. Its surface is divided into 14 polygons, 4 — 5 sided, beside the two 

 ^hich contain the apertures, each of which latter is again subdivided into six 

 triangular valves. 



In our largest specimens the body is 1-5 inch in length, and 0-5 broad at 

 the middle ; the disk is 1-08 high and 0-81 broad. 



It is usually attached to Sertularians. 



Dredged by Lieut. White in " 8 to 12 fathoms, shelly, oflf the N. W. point of 

 Lummi Island." 



HOLOTHURIADAE. 



PSNTACTA PIPKRATA. 



Allied to P. /roraffoja. Body ovate, smooth and glabrous, of a yellowish 

 color, speckled and spotted with black. Sucking feet retracted in our speci- 

 mens, not numerous, and arranged in five irregular rows. Tentacula short 

 and broad, ramose. Length (contracted) 1 J inches : breadth, 0-8 inch. 



We find three or four specimens in the collection, none of them with pro- 

 truded tentacles. 



PbNTACTA POPULIFER. 



Body thick-fusiform in shape. Surface entirely covered with minute, per- 

 forated, polygonal, calcareous plates, each plate having from twenty-five to 

 forty holes, and being armed with a sharp umbo or spine at the centre of its 

 outer surface. Sucking-feet small, of moderate length, very numerous, and 

 arranged in five regular double rows, extending from one extremity of the 

 body to the other. Tentacula ten, eight large and two small ; the large ones 

 of elongated form, and shaped like Lombardy poplar trees, {Populua dilatatd), 

 branching nearly from the base ; branches short. The small tentacles are 

 placed together, and arfe minute, not a tenth part as long as the others. 

 Length of the largest specimen 2 inches ; usual length from 1 to 1^ inches. 



From the number of specimens collected we judge this species to be com- 

 mon in the Sound. It is found in the circumlittoral zone. 



The Inflaenott of the Earth's Atmosphere on the Color of the STAE3. 



BY JACOB ENNIS. 



From the small amount of attention paid to the colors of the stars as a dis- 

 tinct branch of physical research, a vague and indefinite impression has been 

 somewhat prevalent that the atmosphere of our earth has great power in 

 producing the apparent colors and the changes of colors of the fixed stars. 

 The subject is highly important. During the last two or three years it has 

 occupied much of my attention, and I propose in this paper to present my 



X864.] 11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



method of investigation and the results to which I have been led. To ascertain 

 what the influence of the atmosphere might be, I selected for special obser- 

 vation a few of the larger stars, taking some of the red, some of the blue, 

 some of the green, some of the yellow, and some of the white. So many 

 different classes of stars watched carefully during the various changing con- 

 ditions of the atmosphere, seemed most likely to yield valuable conclusions. 



1. The red stars were Aldebaran, Antares, and Betelgeuse. These are all 

 of different shades and intensities of red. In proportion as the atmosphere 

 loses its transparency by the condensation of moisture, these stars lose their 

 distinctive peculiarities. Their redness gradually becomes obscured, and they 

 at last appear of a dull, unsatisfactory white. 



2. The blue stars were Capella, Rigel, Bellatrix, Procyon and Spica. Some 

 of these, as first Procyon, and then Rigel, are far more intensely blue than 

 the others. But as the atmosphere becomes thick and more impervious to 

 distinct vision, their different intensities of blue fade away, and the observer 

 is at length puzzled to decide of what color these stars really are. He feels 

 safest in announcing that they seem white, though not of a clear, decided 

 whiteness. 



3. The green stars were Sirius, "Vega, Altair and Deneb, or the largest star 

 in the Swan. These stars were observed to be green by myself, in the fol- 

 lowing order: Sirius in the autumn of 1862, Vega in June, 1863, and Altair 

 and Deneb in August, 1863. It is remarkable that a very slight haziness in 

 the sky completely hides their green color, and causes them to appear un- 

 mistakably blue. A still thicker haziness has the same eflFect on them as it 

 has on all the blue stars already described, gradually obscuring their blue 

 color, and ranking them among the many hundreds of stars which the naked 

 eye cannot decide to be colored. 



4. The yellow star was Arcturus ; this being the only one which appears 

 decidedly yellow to my vision, unaided by instruments. Several others in- 

 cline the naked eye to regard them as yellow, such as Polaris and the larger 

 stars of Ursa Major and of Cassiopeia, but not sufficiently so to produce a 

 firm belief. Arcturus, in a clear sky, has a fine light orange yellow ; but as 

 the sky becomes less and less clear, the yellow fades away, and ultimately 

 the color of this star turns to a dim white, and becomes undistinguishable 

 from that of the larger stars of Ursa Major, with which, from their position, 

 it may be handily compared. 



5. The white stars were Regulus, Denebola, Fomalhaut, Polaris, the con- 

 stellation of the Wagon, and several others of the second and third magni- 

 tudes. They may be called white stars with reference to their appearance to 

 the naked eye, to mine at least, but we are not bound on that account to 

 believe them to be really white. As they are not first magnitude stars, they 

 probably seem white to the unaided eye only because their light is not suffi- 

 ciently great in amount, or intense in color, to appear colored. There may 

 be persons with unaided vision acute enough to perceive their true colors. 

 But whatever may have been the conditions of the atmosphere, I have never 

 observed them to be other than white. No changes of the air have had the 

 power of presenting them in any shade as colored stars. 



Thus the influence of the atmosphere of our earth upon the stars of all the 

 difi"erent colors, according to these observations, is the same. Whether the 

 stars be red, blue, green or yellow, the effect of changes in the atmosphere is 

 to rob them of their peculiar shades and intensities, and to reduce them all 

 to a dull colorless condition, — a dim whiteness, in which their indistinctness 

 produces a feeling of uncertainty and doubt in the beholder. Nor in any case 

 have I seen any change in the atmosphere turn a star from one color to 

 another, except from green to blue, and this is simply reducing one shade to 

 another ; for green, like purple, is but one of the modifications of blue. I 

 have never seen a red star become blue, nor a blue star become yellow, nor 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



any other similar change by any change in the atmosphere. If such an occur- 

 rence were possible, I believe I would have observed it during the past two 

 or three years. The effect of moonlight in obscuring the colors of the stars, 

 and giving them a yellowish shade, can hardly be called an atmospheric ac- 

 tion. Neither can the effect of the rays of the sun in the earliest daybreak of 

 the morning or in the latest twilight of the evening, be called an atmospheric 

 operation. Such an effect tends to impart a general whiteness to the stars, 

 obliterating their colors in part or in whole, the same as in the«nd it oblite- 

 rates all their light. 



The question now arises. How is it that the atmosphere, when hazy and 

 imperfectly transparent, has the poAver of depriving the stars of their colors, 

 whatever their colors may be, and reducing them all alike to a dull whiteness ? 

 The reason may be seen in the simple fact of the obstruction of their light. 

 Their light becomes diminished in amount to such a degree that it no longer 

 has the power to produce the sensation of color on the retina. Nearly all the 

 stars, when viewed through a telescope, are colored ; they are of some hues 

 other than white. Of this I adduced evidences in my communication for 

 these Proceedings in June, 1863. They appear colored through the telescope 

 because their light is collected by the instrument in a comparatively large 

 mass ; so large that it can make their colors readily perceived. Take away 

 the instrument from all except the larger stars, and the pencil of light becomes 

 so small as to be without the power of imparting the sensation of color. In 

 the same manner the pencil of light from the larger stars may be reduced by 

 haziness in the atmosphere to so small an amount as to be incapable of im- 

 parting the sensation of color, except a dull whiteness, whatever their real 

 colors may be. 



But how does it happen that a green star is changed by haziness to blue ? 

 I once thought that possibly this effect might be due to the same cause which 

 makes the deep ocean, the distant mountainns, and even the atmosphere, ap- 

 pear blue. After further observation and reflection I cannot adopt that ex- 

 planation ; for then all the stars, like the distant mountains, would be colored 

 blue. Then there would be no such contrasts of all colors among the stars 

 as we now behold. The true explanation seems to be that the mists of the 

 atmosphere, in acting on the light of a green star, first obstructs the yellow 

 rays, and after these are all absorbed then the blue rays alone will be visible, 

 and the star must appear blue. Ultimately the mist may become so impervi- 

 ous that the attenuated ray of light can no more excite the sensation of color 

 and the star must appear dimly white. 



Before it can be admitted as a scientific truth that the atmosphere of our 

 earth has the power of changing the color of a fixed star from one hue of the 

 rainbow to another totally different, there must be brought forward a number 

 of well authenticated facts as grounds for such a belief. We must have the 

 specifications of certain stars which have been seen to change, and the dates 

 of such changes, and the conditions of the atmosphere by which such changes 

 have been produced, and also the numbers and the names of the persons by 

 whom such phenomena have been witnessed. Such evidences of the changes 

 of the colors of the fixed stars by our atmosphere have never been seen nor 

 heard, and for my part, judging by my own observations, I never expect to 

 see them, nor to hear of them. An exception to this remark may be the case of 

 a green star turning to blue, as already explained. Perhaps another excep- 

 tion may yet be found, as indicated in the following passage from Humboldt. 

 The italics are not in the original : " We do not here allude to the change 

 of color which accompanies scintillation, even in the whitest stars, and still 

 lets to the transient and generally red color exhibited by stellar light near the horizon^ 

 a phenomenon owing to the character of the atmospheric medium through 

 which we see it, but to the white or colored stellar light radiated by each 

 cosmical body, in consequence of its peculiar luminous process, and the dif- 



1864.] 




iW PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



ferent constitution of its surface. The Greek astronomers were acquainted 

 with red stars only, while modern science has discovered, by the aid of the 

 telescope, in the radiant fields of the starry heavens, as in the blossoms of 

 flowering plants and in the metallic colors, almost all the gradations of the 

 prismatic spectrum." The turn of the expression " still less " shows that he 

 regarded the matter as inconspicuous and unimportant, and the remark is 

 made only in a casual manner. Nevertheless, incidental as the remark may 

 seem, it is th« most precise and circumstantial I have found in any author on 

 the influence of the atmosphere on the colors of the stars. But is it really 

 true that the atmosphere can impart a transient and generally red color to 

 stellar light when near the horizon ? In the absence of all confirmation to 

 the above remark of the distinguished philosopher, I selected as test stars 

 Vega and Capella, both first magnitude stars, the former green and the latter 

 blue, and the one or the other is grazing the northern horizon nearly all the 

 year. But I have been unable to detect the changes he mentions. May not 

 his remark have arisen from observations on the planetary bodies, and have 

 been inadvertently extended to the fixed stars ? The planets, especially Ju- 

 piter, according to my observations, are sometimes, though rarely, sensibly 

 reddened like the sun and moon by the atmosphere. But whether Humboldt's 

 assertion be confirmed or not, it cannot effect our decision about the real 

 changes of the colors of the stars. No one would pretend to announce a 

 change in the color of a star simply because of a " transient " appearance of 

 a change while near the horizon. In the same manner, probably, the idea 

 has got afloat in a vague manner that, because the atmosphere of our earth 

 has the capability of giving occasionally a red color to the sun, moon and the 

 planets, it must therefore have not only the same effect on the fixed stars, but 

 even the power to turn them to all the hues of the spectrum between red and 

 blue. But this rapid generalization is no more warranted by sound reason- 

 ing than by observation. The sun, the moon and the planets have sensible 

 disks, which the fixed stars have not. Hence the optical phenomena of these 

 two classes of bodies differ widely. The fixed stars, under the influence of 

 our atmosphere, are made to scintillate ; they then twinkle with an unsteady 

 light, and to good eyes they flash out rapidly and fitfully all the varieties of 

 colors. This shows the difference, in an optical point of view, between the 

 fixed stars and the other celestial bodies, and the impropriety of a hasty gene- 

 ralization from one class to the other. Because the atmosphere can redden 

 one class it by no means follows that it can redden the other, much less ^at 

 It can impart to the other all imaginable hues. 



Another cause for the belief that the atmosphere can impart different colors 

 to the stars, may be found in the necessity for some explanation of their 

 changes of color. It is assumed, though without any known reason, that the 

 intrinsic colors of the stars cannot change, at least in the space of two thou- 

 sand years, and hence there is a necessity for an explanation of their appa- 

 rent changes in some other way ; and as the handiest method these changes 

 are attributed to the atmosphere of our earth. That the various colors of the 

 stars are not produced by our atmosphere, nor by optical instruments, nor by 

 personal peculiarities of vision, becomes perfectly evident from the following 

 simple consideration. If their colors were produced by any one of these 

 causes, then there would not be that beautiful contrast of colors which we 

 now behold ; then it could never have been said of the cluster Kappa Crucis, 

 that the various bright contrasted colors of its different members give it ^11 

 *' the effect of a superb piece of fancy jewelry." Instead of this there would 

 be in that cluster, and in every other region, a dull monotonous color in all 

 the stars alike. It has happened that travellers, in coming from Europe to 

 America, have expressed their surprise at the beauty of our sky, when notic- 

 ing for the first time in their lives the different colors of the stars. This has 

 been supposed to be the work of our atmosphere, the natural operation of the 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



gaseous envelope of our earth. The true explanation is this. The stars ap- 

 pear colored to the naked eye in Europe as well as in America. Astronomical 

 observers see them colored the same in all countries. But in some countries 

 their colors are slightly dimmed by the more habitual haziness of the atmo- 

 sphere, so much dimmed that they are not noticed by unprofessional gazers. 

 When these latter persons arrive in a more cloudless region, they notice the 

 colors of the stars simply because a slight veil is withdrawn, and not because 

 new colors have been added. 



The evidences of changes of color are now most abundant among the 

 double and multiple stars. This is because the colors of these have been 

 more generally recorded. Hence the importance of having records made, as 

 frequently as possible, of the colors of all the stars, as they appear both to the 

 aided and the unaided vision. Of course no careful observer will decide on the 

 color of a star from its appearance in an unfavorable atmosphere, nor will he 

 neglect the influence of the sun and moon, nor other means for correcting 

 and confirming his observations, as presented in the rules of my last paper.* 



July hth. 

 Dr. Coaxes in the Chair. 

 Eight members present. 



JvXy 12<A. f 



Yice-President Bridqes in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



A paper was ofifered for publication entitled " Description of a Gar- 

 Pike, supposed to be new." By Alexander Winchell. 



July 19<A. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Ten members present. 



A paper was offered for publication entitled " Contributions to the 

 Herpetology of Tropical America." By E. D. Cope. 



The death of Thomas Dunlap, member of the Academy, on the 11th 

 instant, was announced. 



July 26<A. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 

 Six members present. 



• Page 67 of this volume. 



1864.] 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



August 2Bd. 



Dr. McEuen in the Chair. 



Seven members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " On the Limits and 

 Relations of the Raniformes." By E. D. Cope. 



August SOth. 



Dr. McEuen in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Contributions to the Herpetology of Tropical Ameriea. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Caudisona basilisca. 



Two pairs of symmetrical muzzle plates in contact ; third or posterior 

 pair subdivided. Rostral subtriangular, higher than wide, in immediate con- 

 tact with nasals and frontals. Oblique length of postnasal equal horizontal 

 length of prenasal ; latter separated by small scales from the anterior labials. 

 Fourteen superior labials, separated from the suborbital series by two and 

 three rows of scales. Three fiat plates between the elongate, flat supercilia- 

 ries. Temporals smooth. Scales in twenty-nine rows, external largest, and 

 with two next on each side smooth. Tail stout, surrounded by thirteen longi- 

 tudinal rows at the middle. Rattle very acuminate, with a lateral groove. 

 Gastrosteges 199 ; urosteges 20 single, four terminal divided. End of muzzle 

 to rictus 1 in. 10 1., to vent 44 in. 8 1. ; vent to base of rattle 3 in. 1 1. 



Ground color pale yellowish brown, much replaced by the following mark- 

 ings, which are on entire scales, not parts : about thirty dorsal rhombs 

 from a short distance posterior to head to opposite vent, of a bright chestnut 

 red, browner medially and white bordered ; five scales long and fourteen wide 

 inside the white border, on the median part of the body, where they are in 

 contact. Posteriorly they are separated, anteriorly elongate. Laterally, be- 

 tween each rhomb, a spot of bright chestnut. Belly and inferior scales yel- 

 low, every second or'third lateral the base of a short oblique chestnut band. 

 Head dark brown ; two elongate occipital spots. Superior labials yellowish. 

 A narrow yellowish line from the small eye to the rictus. No lines on the 

 neck. Tail dark grey, with five obscure rings. 



Hab. — Near Colima, Mexico. From Consul John Xantus' collections. Mas. 

 Smithsonian, No. 6118. 



This s.pecies belongs in the section embracing the South American species, 

 and the C. molossus, from all which it is quickly distinguishable. It has 

 fewer labials and more scales below the eye than molossus, and possesses 

 a different pattern of coloration, though the tints are nearly the same. The 

 affinities with adamanteus and a t r o x are not distant ; the plates of the 

 mfozzle and coloration are different, 



Crotalus triseriatus Wagler (TJropsophus Wagl., Crot. lugubria Jan,) is 

 not rare on the Mexican Table land. It is allied to C. lucifer, but espe- 

 cially to C. scutulata Kenn. 



Tomodon nasutus. 

 Body cylindrical, stout ; neck but little constricted ; head acuminate oval. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 167 



Muzzle produced beyond the labial margin, oblique-truncate in profile. Ros- 

 tral plate flat, not turned backward above. Both pre- and postfrontals longer 

 than wide, the latter a little bent down laterally. Vertical more than twice 

 as long as wide, lateral outlines not straight. Superciliaries broad ; occipitals 

 rather short, longer than broad ; two postoculars, in contact with one tem- 

 poral. One preocular just touching vertical ; one longitudinal loreal, higher 

 behind ; one elongate nasal, the nostril anterior to its middle and connected 

 by a suture to the margin below. Superior labials eight, third, fourth and 

 fifth entering orbit ; inferior ten 5 post- longer than pregeneials. Anterior 

 maxillary and mandibular teeth longer than median. Pupil round. Scales 

 broad, thin, poreless, in nineteen rows. Tail rather slender. Gastrosteges 186 ; 

 one divided anal ; urosteges 61. End of muzzle to rictus oris 7 lines, to vent 

 6 in. 2 1. ; tail 4 in. 5 1. 



General color light brown, punctulate with dark brown, especially thickly 

 on head and sides. A darker brown band three and two half scales wide 

 from occiput to end of tail, which is nearly broken into spots on the nape. 

 Ends of scuta and first two rows of scales darker, especially anteriorly, where 

 the band is sooty and spreads over the lips and chin ; a faint longitudinal 

 band above the shade ; a short yellow streak from postorbitals to penultimate 

 labial. Abdomen with many short punctulate streaks. 



ffab. — Colima, Mexico. Xantus coll. No. 1341. Besides the preceding, this 

 very fine collection contained Spilotes auribundus (=salvim Gthr.), S. 

 erebennus {obsoletus Holbr.) Conophis lineatus, Phimothyra mexi- 

 c a n a (Zamenis D. &. B.) and the following : 

 Toluca frontalis. 



Muzzle prominent, acuminate, slightly recurved. Rostral separating pre- 

 frontals very slightly. Nasal long ; postfrontal in contact with second supe- 

 rior labial. One narrow low preocular, two postoculars, the lower barely in 

 contact with one temporal. Seven superior labials ; eye over third and fourth. 

 Occipitals longer than vertical, truncate, rounded behind ; anterior suture of 

 Tertical a little longer than straight lateral. Seventeen rows of equal thin 

 scales. Seven inferior labials ; geneials very short, posterior pair reduced 

 to scales. Urosteges 44 ; one double anal ; gastrosteges 141. End of muzzle 

 to canthus oris 8 lin. ; to vent 8 in. 10 lin. Length of tail 1 in. 10 lines. 



Color below uniform pale yellow. Above grayish brown, becoming more 

 rufous medially, with about thirty. six rhombic, dark edged, brown spots, six 

 scales wide and four long, whose angles are produced as vertical lateral bars. 

 Together they become nearly cross-bands posteriorly, when they are sepa- 

 rated by a pale spot on the vertebral line. A brown cross-band across post- 

 frontals and vertical ; a longitudinal band on each occipital and side of nape. 



Bab. — Colima. Xantus coll.. No. 1363. 



In this genus and Tomodon the hypapophyses of the vertebrae are, as usual 

 among the Asinea, not developed behind the anterior fifth or sixth of the 

 column. A group of genera partly coinciding with that forming Jan's family 

 Potamophilidae, I find to possess these processes even to the vent, offering a 

 new character of definition to the subfamily of the Homalopsinas, as tbey 

 may be called. The genera in which this structure exists are Eurostus D. and 

 B., Gerarda Gr., Hypsirhina Wagl., Cerberus Cuv., Homalopsis Kuhl., Heli- 

 cops Wagl., Atretium'Cope, Tachynectes Fitz., (this genus is coryphodont in 

 dentition ;T. chrysostictus is a Helicops) ; Tropidonotus Kuhl., Tham- 

 nophis Fitz., Xenochrophis Gthr., ( = Thamnosophis .Jan), Prymnomiodon 

 Cope, Ninia B. and G., Storeria B. and G., Haldea B. and G., Tropidoclonium 

 Cope, Amastridium Cope. In Herpeton the processes are present, but very 

 weak for a short distance posteriorly. In Tretanorhinus, otherwise similar 

 to this group, there are only strong keels, as in a few Colubrine genera. Gla- 

 niolestes and Heterodon do not belong here ; the processes are wanting ; so 

 also with Xenodon and Thamnodynastes. Hydrops and Calopisma belong to 

 another section. 



1864.] 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Psendaspis can a (Coronella Auct.) differs widely from the Coronelline 

 genera in the strong posterior development of these hypapophyses, resembling 

 Lamprophis aurora, which separates itself by this from the Lycodonta, 

 where it has been erroneously placed. 



Chamaeleolis p o r c u s. 



Height from superciliary margin to mandibular edge enters two and two- 

 third times in length from end of muzzle to end of casque, (3^ times in f er- 

 n a n d i n a) ; width of muzzle at middle 2f »times in length from its end to thft 

 posterior border of orbit; (3 times in f e r n an d i na). Casque rather ab- 

 ruptly turned upwards. Labials nearly square, separated by but one row of 

 large scales, from orbit. Inferior labials short, in contact below throughout 

 with a row of ten more or less quadrangular infralabials, which are again 

 margined by another row of longitudinal infralabials. Thickened margin of 

 fan prolonged to symphysis, bearing a double row of long beard-like appen- 

 dages. Scales of throat and fan minute, uniform, smaller than abdominal ; 

 the last tubercular, larger than infernandina. Dorsal scales large, sub- 

 quadrate, in seventeen transverse rows from axilla to groin ; (28 in f e rn a n- 

 d i n a) ; in nine larger, and six very narrow dorsal series, separated by nar- 

 row, granular interspaces. Dorsal and caudal median fold well developed. 

 End of muzzle to ear 2 in. ; ear to vent 4 in. 2 1. ; vent to end of tail 6 in. 10 1.; 

 anterior limb 2 in. 3 1. ; posterior limb 3 in. 1 1. 



Color of a 9 specimen long preserved in alcohol : A general yellowish 

 gray, with five pairs of faint brown bands across the dorsal crest, and a large 

 brown patch, on the anterior half of each side. Head with numerous black 

 spots. 



Cuba. Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. One specimen from Dr. Gavin "Wat- 

 son. This species is stouter and shorter than the fernandin a,* and differs 

 much in the scutellation. It agrees with it in some minor points, as the 

 temporal ridge, the process above the auricular opening, etc. 



Eupristis b a 1 e a t u s. 



Scales all keeled, but little larger than smooth abdominals, separated and 

 surrounded by granulations anteriorly. Scales of nuchal crest narrow, conic ; 

 of dorsal weak posteriorly. Very faint ridges on goitre, but every where a 

 clothing of fine scales. Convergent ridges of occiput not distinct. Front tu- 

 berculous, two parallel lines running down the middle to end of muzzle, 

 slightly concave between superciliary ridges. Canthus rostralis tuberculous ; 

 no occipital or supra temporal tubercles. Seven loreal rows ; brachials larger 

 than dorsals ; antebrachials and many femorals two and three keeled. Fouf 

 infralabials larger, the anterior not the largest. Below yellowish, posterior 

 extremities and tail much marbled with brown. Above brown, with three 

 greenish white cross-bands, which are broadest and turned backward on the 

 median line ; traces of intermediate bands are seen on the inferior part of thtt 

 sides. The anterior is broken into spots, and two spots on the nape are op- 

 posite to two longitudinal pale shades on each side the neck. Head uniform 

 brown ; a light spot on lower scapular region. Brachium with two, ante- 

 brachium with four, femur and tibia each with three cross-bands of greenish 

 white. Tail with numerous broad bands. Toes cross-banded. From end of 

 muzzle to tympanic orifice (^French measure) 4'''' 5''''^; from tympanum to 

 Opp\)site vent 11'''' 4''''^; vent to end of tail (broken) 26''''. Anterior extremity 

 6^' 3^^^; posterior 10^^ 3^^^ 



Eab. — St. Domingo. Mus. Brittann.; (from Sally's collection.) 



Xiphosurus f e r r e u s, 



A double nuchal crest. Dorsal and lateral scales large, keeled. Supra 

 temporal swelling covered with large tuberculiform scales. Superciliariefl 



* For a beautiful specimen of thi* animal I am again indebted to my friend Prof. Ph. Pooy. 



[Aug, 




NATURAL SCIENTCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 169 



in contact ; frOntals large, smooth. Canthus rostralis higher than frontal 

 ridge, sharp, elevated, bordered by four scales, the three anterior of which 

 are in close contact with those of the frontal ridges, which are three, and are 

 separated by two rows of large flat scales. Superciliaries five on each side, 

 all transverse except the anterior, but one on each side in contact. Occipital 

 large, oval, separated from superciliaries by one row, in a deep depression. 

 Supraocular patch of four or five transverse scales of an inner series, and 

 two or three round of an outer. Loreal rows five. Goitre small, covered 

 with close series of produced oppendiciform scales. Symphyseals produced 

 posteriorly. Two large anterior infralabials. Femoral scales larger ; brachials, 

 tibials and antebrachials equal to ventral, all weakly keeled. Dorsal little, 

 lateral much smaller, strongly keeled. Scales of caudal crest larger than 

 those of sides of tail. Muzzle to ear Z" ^'"\ ear to vent ^'f 1"'^ vent to end 

 of tail 19^'. 



Above dark brown, blackish on sides of head ; below metallic green shaded 

 with brown ; under surfaces of tail and extremities pale brown. 



Hah.—''' Guadaloupe." Mus. Britt. 



Xiphosurus homolechis. 



No nuchal crest, a slight fold. Four larger dorsal rows of keeled scales — 

 fold none, or indistinct. Supra temporal and lateral scales minute. Super- 

 ciliaries separate ; frontals equal, keeled. Supraorbital patch separated by a 

 rbVr of small scales from superciliaries. Canthus rostralis lower than frontal 

 Hdge. 



Head short, muzzle acuminate ; canthus rostralis sharp, a little decurved, 

 Its scales separated from those of the frontal ridge by one row of scales. 

 Scales of front and muzzle nearly equal, as broad as long, keeled. Six super- 

 ciliaries on each side, longer than broad. Occipital small, not in a depression, 

 separated from superciliaries by many rows of scales. Goitre large. Three 

 rows of subhexagonal scales in supraorbital disc, separated from supercilia- 

 ries by one row of small scales. Lateral scales granular. Scales of caudal 

 crest equal, lateral caudal ; those of extremities larger than ventrals. Muzzle 

 to ear V^ A,'"-^ ear to vent V Z'". Anterior extremity 1" ; posterior "i" &"f. 



General color brown, darker on nape and temporal region ; below whitish, 

 with green metallic shades, and indistinct brown variations posteriorly. Tail 

 and extremities pale brown beneath. 



Hah. — West Indies — the island unknown. One specimen, Mus. Briit. 



Anolit Section.* Tail compressed, or with a median larger series of scales ; ventrals 



smooth. 

 Anolis d amulus. 



Six superciliaries, nearly equilateral, except the anterior, which is very large, 

 Separated by one row of smaller scales ; four rows between the anterior of 

 the facial ridges, weakly keeled. Supraorbital disk of about 14 keeled scales, 

 isolated. Occipital small, separated by many rows of small scales. Rostral 

 plate emarginate above ; nostril quite terminal, lateral. Five loreal rows. 

 Symphyseals broader than long ; three larger anterior infralabials — two an- 

 terior broader than inferior labials. Dorsal scales very small, equal ; ventrals 

 larger than brachials, which are keeled ; infratibials smooth. Ear much 

 feinaller than fissure of eye, larger than nostril. Anterior extremity reaching 

 beyond groin ; posterior to anterior border of orbit. Tail nearly cylindri(5al, 

 of moderate length ; all its scales strongly keeled. A shoulder fold. End of 

 inuzzle to anterior border of orbit 6^^^; between the latter points b^^^; muzzle 

 to ear V^ Z'"; ear to vent V-. tail *l'f h" . Anterior extremity V\ posterior 

 i'f Zfrr. 



Above metallic light reddish brown, with some minute glistening white 

 points on the sides. Head above paler, lips varied with darker, a pale streak 

 from below eye to ear. Limbs spotted, behind marbled with silvery, dark 



1864.] 




170 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



and light colors abruptly separated on posterior face of femur, which with 

 the abdomen are pale golden below ; gular region faintly greenish ; chin 

 brown, varied. Tail brown, cross-banded near the end. 



Anolis gingivinus. 



Head elongate ; from end of muzzle to auricular opening twice into length 

 from posterior margin ear to posterior face femur. Muzzle rather narrow, 

 end rounded and truncate in profile. Canthus rostralis straight, acute. Lo- 

 real region a little concave, with five (4) rows of scales, its greatest height half 

 frontal width between last scales of canthus rostralis ; latter distance equal 

 from same point to top of rostral plate. Two pronounced frontal ridges not 

 continued on anterior part of muzzle ; concavity pronounced, elongate, en- 

 closing two rows of smooth scales at middle portion, bordered by two large 

 subequal scales in front of last superciliary ; between anterior of these are 

 three rows of scales, of which the median is often large. Posterior scales of 

 canthus rostralis much larger than second. Superciliaries four or five, in con- 

 tact, sometimes nearly separated by a row of granules. Supraorbital disc sepa- 

 rated by only one row of granules from superciliaries. Occipital well devel- 

 oped, surrounded by numerous flat scales, in a strong depression. Symphyse- 

 als large, first infralabial a little smaller, like the second larger than any la- 

 bials, and preceding an infralabial series of oblique scales. Ear equals half eye. 

 A faint nuchal fold ; two rows of larger median dorsal scales, less than bra- 

 chials ; laterals very minute. Ventrals oval, much larger than dorsals or bra- 

 chials, smaller than supraorbitals. Fan elongate, moderately developed. 

 Tail moderate, strongly compressed, with a strong crest of scales, of which 

 every third is larger and the summit of a cross series. Ramus mandibuli in 

 most specimens thickened in a vertical direction, forming a strong inferior 

 ridge. Posterior limbs short. From end of muzzle to ear opening l^^ %'"\ 

 from latter to vent 4/f ^"^\ anterior limb V *l'"\ posterior to heel V *{'''•. 

 foot v. 



Above greyish or rusty brown, with darker, rather close vermiculations on 

 the sides, which form a dark superior border to a broad pale band from 

 above axilla to groin. This is bordered below by brown, below which are 

 other dark vermiculations. Inferior surfaces, including fan, immaculate. 9 

 is similar, except in the absence of the dark markings not bordering the late- 

 ral band. 



Six specimens from Anguilla Rock, near Trinidad ; presented by W. J. 

 Cooper to the British Museum. 



Anolis c i t r i n e 1 1 u s. 



Muzzle of medium outline, slightly depressed and rounded at extremity, 

 less than twice as wide between lachrymal angles than loreal height, but 

 twice as long from same point. Canthus rostralis straight, the posterior 

 scale largest, the fourth under the lateral nostril. Facial ridges not strong, 

 higher than canthus, each with two large scales in front of first and large 

 superciliary, .and enclosing three rows of smaller, flat, smooth scales, which 

 are broad as long, the two outer larger than the median. Superciliaries large, 

 four on each side, in contact, nearly separated by a row of minute scales, and 

 separated from the round occipital by three rows of scales. Supraorbital 

 disc touching or not touching supraorbitals, two larger and six smaller, the 

 inner anterior longer than broad, three times the size of second. Five rows 

 of loreals. Three anterior infralabials larger than labials, the anterior less 

 than symphyseal. Auricular opening two-thirds of ocular. Fan elongate, 

 rather closely scaled. Abdominal scales about equal middle interrugal and 

 brachial ; some of the thoracic keeled. Anterior femoral larger, very weakly 

 keeled ; inferior tibials and antebrachials more strongly. Two median dorsal 

 rows larger keeled, much less than abdominals ; other dorsals and laterals 

 minute, but rather coarse and tuberculiform. Tail but moderately com- 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 171 



pressed, with a low crest. End of muzzle to ear V 1 J'"; ear to rent 3''; vent 

 to end of tail V 5''^ Anterior extremity \'f b\'". Posterior to heel 1" 6'"; 

 hind foot I'f 4.'". 



Above dark brown, nape, vertebral line, and about five broad transverse 

 cross bars on each side darker, the space between tinged with yellowish. 

 Below bright yellow, gular region greyish, with some faint longitudinal 

 brown lines ; chin, labial and r«stral shields yellow, or tinged with it. Ex- 

 tremities dark, with a few very faint cross bars. 



Hab. — Hayti. Mus. Britt. 



** Tail cylindrical^ or with vertebral and lateral scales equal ; ventrals keeled. 

 Anolis c ar n e u s. 



Scales everywhere flat and smaller than frontal. Head short, broad, espe- 

 cially occiput. Front narrow, concave, superciliary rows separated by two 

 or three rows of scales. Superciliaries nine or ten, not wider than long, not 

 continued as a large row on facial ridget, which are high, rounded, enclosing 

 deep concavity, which is filled with equal subhexagonal scales, smooth or 

 slightly one-keeled. Canthus rostralis sharp, short, descending steeply ; nos- 

 trils lateral, eight or ten rows of narrow scales between. Occipital small, sur- 

 rounded by nearly equal scales, which a little exceed the smooth dorsal. Eye 

 large ; eight loreal rows. Many rows of keeled infralabials, scarcely larger 

 than gulars. No whorls among tail scales, which are very weakly keeled. 

 Ear nearly as large as eye slit. Supraorbitals weakly keeled, in five rows, 

 not forming an isolated disc. From ear to end of muzzle 3f times from latter 

 point to vent, in an old 9 specimen, four times in a young (^. No dermal 

 dorsal fold. 9" 5'" from muzzle to vent ; tail 16"; groin to heel 5''''; hind foot 

 3" 5'''''; anterior limb 4" — all from 9 > which is light yellowish brown above ; 

 a pink shaded median dorsal band, on each side of which is a narrow brown 

 band, which commence by two convergent portions on occiput, and are inter- 

 rupted behind opposite axilla ; two or three other more or less interrupted 

 paler brown streaks on each side. Brown band between eyes. Beneath im- 

 maculate. Young (^ every where rose colored, with some blackish markings 

 on posterior part of sides, and faint bands across hind and fore limbs. Goitre 

 very small. 



Two specimens in Mus. Britt. Lower Vera Paz Forest. Obtained from 

 Osbert Salvin, a thorough explorer of that region. 



A. semilineatus. 



Near to cyanopleurus; agreeing in most points in squamation ; but 

 instead of six or seven there are 10 — 12 rows of larger dorsals ; 2 — 3 larger 

 smooth infralabials ; front scales broad as long, smooth, six rows from can- 

 thus row to canthus row at halfway to nares. A triangular patch of scales 

 as large as loreals behind the eye, which are abruptly surrounded by the 

 minute lateral. 



A brown shade from lores to middle of side ; yellow band from suprala- 

 bial line to middle of side or groin, which is bounded above and below by a 

 dark shade. Size, that of cyanopleurus. 



JIab. — Hayti. Mus. Brit. 



Anolis bit e ctu s. 



Muzzle acuminate, with scales broad aa long, 1 — 3 keeled, those between 

 ridge rows much smaller, minute, yet flat, one row between the double rowed 

 superciliaries. Occiput oval, surrounded by small scales. Two rows of ra- 

 ther broad keeled supraorbitals. Ear J of eye ; seven loreal rows ; canthus 

 rostralis short, nearly straight. Infra-maxillary small, equal, keeled. Minute 

 scales from eye along side ; nine larger dorsal rows, then two median size 

 each side, then lateral. About eighteen rows of ventrals. Male with well 

 developed goitre. Tail rather short. From end of muzzle to ear V^ 3'^^; to 

 vent 5^^ 2'//; hind foot 2"; heel to groin 2" V". 



1864.] 




172 PllOCBlSDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Above light brown, below and on upper tip yellowish, abruptly sepa- 

 rated from color of upper surfaces, which is on sides a dark band from eye, 

 extending in $ only to groin, and is bordered below with distinctly paler to 

 middle of side. 



Two specimens. West Equador. From Fraser's coUectiofl. 



Anolis scypheus. 



Lateral scales minutely granular, graduating into larger, many rowed, 

 keeled dorsals, which are very much less than ventrals, and less than fron- 

 tals. Superciliary row not continued as larger scales to canthus, com- 

 posed of nine scales, separated by three rows of keeled scales ; twelve rows 

 at middle of muzzle between canthus rows, as broad as long, obtusely one- 

 keeled. Canthus rostralis descending steeply, nearly straight, from lachrymal 

 processes to same, equal from same to end of muzzle, and longitudinal diameter 

 of orbit. No prefrontal concavity. Frontal and occipital region elevated. 

 Eight loreal rows. Supraorbitals very small, on inner part of the region, in 

 longitudinal series, keeled ; rest of surface granular. Occipital not large, sur- 

 rounded by many flat scales, and between two bony crests, which unite pos- 

 teriorly to it, send off a posterior median crest, which after 2" length, sends 

 oflF a nearly transverse branch on each side. Ear ^ size of eye opening. In- 

 fralabials small, longitudinally keeled. Keeled scales of limbs much smaller 

 than abdominal ; caudals very small, equal at root of tail. Trace of goitre in 

 9 . Digital dilitations very narrow. From end of muzzle to ear l^^ 6'"; to 

 vent 6'^ 8^/'; vent to end of tail 11" 2'"; hind foot 2" 6'^'; groin to heel 3" 8'". 



Bright green; brown band across muzzle and eyelids, and some small white 

 specks. Narrow blackish cross-bands directed forward on sides, and longi- 

 tudinal reticulations from axilla. Femur ? twice, tibia once brown cross- 

 banded. Immaculate below ; throat bluish. 



Anolis u s t u s. 



Resembles superficially alutaceus anddamulus. Head flattened ; 

 muzzle acuminate ; greatest width between posterior scales of canthus ros- 

 tralis from same point to anterior margin of nostril, which is lateral, and 

 near end of muzzle. Ridges scarcely perceptible ; concavity shallow, broad, 

 three scales wide. Scales of front broad as long, slightly one-keeled, in 

 six or seven rows between canthus ; five rather large superciliaries which 

 are in contact, or separated by one row of very small scales ; occipital 

 large, surrounded by flat scales ; supraorbitals five or six ; three broad, 

 smooth on inner row, in contact with superciliaries, except on one side of one 

 specimen. Dorsal scales smaller than caudal, ventral or prefemoral. Five 

 loreal rows ; canthus nearly straight ; ear J of eye ; dilatations well devel- 

 oped ; goitre weak, Infralabials few, small, shorter anteriorly. Tail a trifle 

 more than twice head and body ; muzzle to ear V^ V"; ear to vent V ^''' . 



Yellowish brown, with several short, irregular, darker, lighter bordered, 

 half-fasciiB above. Head darker above ; streak across between eyes. Gular 

 and lateral regions with ferruginous small spots and shades. Tail with trans- 

 verse dark shades. Extremities darker, paler, few cross banded. 



Two specimens. B. M. Belize. 

 Anolis h el i a c ti n. 



Size small ; head lafge, elongate, depressed ; ridges weak ; concavity ehal- 

 l6w, short ; fourteen more or less rows of narrow, keeled, not imbricate dot* 

 sal scales Which graduate into the granular lateral, and are smaller than the 

 imbricate venttal : the last about equal to those on the middle of the front. 

 Ifaterrugal scale shield-like, broad as long, faintly keeled ; a little larger than 

 those of the ridges : these are continued as a row to the middle of the can- 

 thus rostralis, and number nine scales from that point to posterior extremity 

 behind orbit; they are separated by two rows of small scales, and two on 

 each side from the round flat occipital; also by one row from supraorbital 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



disc. Six superior labials ; five loreal rows. Disc composed of two rows of 

 broad scales ; the inner larger, keeled. Infralabials longitudinal, smaller 

 than labials. Fan large. Bar one-third of eye fissure. Nostrils opening late* 

 rally. Femur and tibia of moderate length. Tail very long; its scales 

 larger than dorsal or ventral. Knee and elbows not meeting on the side by 

 the length of the humerus ; heel not reaching axilla, longest toe posterior 

 part of orbit. Digital dilatations narrow. Muzzle to ear enters three and one- 

 half times into from muzzle to between femora. Pale yellow, with faint cop- 

 pery and green reflections. Head tinged with brown ; labial plates whitish. 

 Hab. — " Mexico." Mus. Academy Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Anolis nannodes. 



Very slight concavity on muzzle ; ridges low ; scales of front broad as long, 

 amooth or slightly roughened. Superciliaries in contact ; small flat scales 

 round the occipital. Dorsal scales very much smaller than those of front, and' 

 equal abdominal ; seven or nine rows in the middle a little larger. Infralabials 

 numerous, little distinct, equal, keeled. Loreals four or five rows ; canthus 

 rostralis nearly straight from angle of eye ; eight rows between canthal rows 

 at middle muzzle. Ear \ size of eye opening. Eye not prominent. Two rows 

 supraorbitals ; inner much larger ; four or five transverse in curved series se- 

 parated by granular scales from superciliaries. Tail and extremities short ; 

 digital dilatations broad. End of muzzle to tympanum V^ V"\ former to vent 

 4// 5///. hind foot \" \'"\ limb 1" h'"; tail 1". 



Light reddish brown, with a brown cross band between eyes and across 

 muzzle, and spot on each side of sacral region. The male with indistinct 

 brown cross lines on back ; female a darker median shade, and indistinct 

 blackish line on each side. 



Three specimens, two from Godman and Salvin's collection from Coban, 

 Vera Paz, Mus. Brit. Sp. 6116 Mus. Smiths., Arriba, Costa Rica, from 0. N. 

 Eiotte, and No. 6117 Xalapa, De Oca. 



Anolis crassulus. 



Differs from mllei in larger ventral and dorsal scales ; in smoother, 

 broader scales of front, especially superciliaries and supraorbitals. More 

 Iftumerous supraorbitals ; shorter muzzle, a few larger, smoother infralabials. 

 Differs from nebulosus in number and separation of superciliaries and iji 

 supraorbitals, apparently. 



Eyes rather small ; muzzle not long, not short, rounded acuminate, a little 

 depressed at tip. Frontal depression strong, containing five or six scales, count- 

 ing across its anterior part. Superciliaries as broad as long, separated by one 

 or t^^^o rows (in one specimen in contact, perhaps abnormally) ; eight from 

 canthus rostralis to point nearest occipital ; all scales of front smooth, thick, 

 «8 broad as long. Two rows broad subhexagonal supraorbitals, four or five 

 broader on inner row, forming a disc not surrounded by granules. Two or three 

 outer infralabials equal inferior labials. Goitre well developed. Four loreal 

 rows : 13 — 14 rows of dorsals graduating rather suddenly into laterals ; a little 

 •mailer than ventrals and prefemorals. Tail stout at base. Ear J — J eye slit. 

 Pale reddish brown, below yellower ; top of head darker ; front loreal region 

 through eye along each side of neck a brown indistinct band, bounded below 

 by a narrow yellowish one from whole labial length, which is prolongieil 

 posteriorly. 9 with a yellow dorsal band. End of muzzle to ear l^^ ^'"^ to 

 ▼ent ^" V"\ hind foot V 1'"; heel to groin V^ ; tail 'd" . 



Two specimens. Coban, Vera Paz. " Central America." Mus. Brit. Sp. 

 in Mus. Smithsonian and Acad. Nat. Sci. » 



Anolis cy m b o p s. 



Width of head between temporal ridges equal to its perpendicular diametipr 

 At occipital plate ; muzzle rather short, ^cumlAate ; loreal re^ioja str^ti^ht, 

 1864.] 




174 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



high ; canthus rostralis straight, steep ; muzzle swollen between nostrils ; no 

 facial ridges, but a well marked, broad concavity. Eyes large ; palpebrae 

 projecting upwards, with a supraorbital disc of three rows of keeled scales, 

 which are longer than broad. Seven rows of loreals ; superciliaries six or se- 

 ven, separated by one row of scales of nearly equal size ; four rows between 

 continuation of superciliary rows, but all of nearly equal size, broad as long, 

 some keeled ; eight scales across middle of muzzle ; on end of muzzle 

 smaller. Two rows of scales (suboculars divided) between orbit and superior 

 labials. Labials 11. Symphyseal posteriorly convex in outlines, infralabial 

 small, subequal, keeled. Occiput small, surrounded by numerous flat 

 scales. Abdominal scales smaller than those of front, obtusely keeled. La- 

 terals and dorsals granular, minute, gradually a little larger dorsally, but 

 less than two median rows, which extend from nape to on tail, which are 

 •keeled and smaller than the abdominal. Exterior scales of extremities 

 larger, keeled. Digital dilatations not broad. Hind limb extended, reaches to 

 middle of lores. Tail slightly compressed ; scales at base smaller, flat, 

 keeled ; two meridian rows larger. End of muzzle to ear V \'"\ ear to 

 vent 2" 9'''; vent to end of tail 6"; anterior extremity 1" V"\ posterior to heel 

 Vf ^Y"; hind foot \" ^y^''. 



Above brown, outer edges of the two median dorsal rows much darker ; 

 a cross band on tibia ; below yellowish brown, rather closely shaded with 

 reddish brown, especially posterially and on extremities. A dark shade in front 

 of each inguinal region. 



One sp. 9- Vera Cruz. 



*** Tail cylindrical, without crest, or covered above with equal scales : ventral* 



smooth. 

 Anolis impetigosus. 



Muzzle elongate acuminate, depressed, rugae obsolete ; concavity shallow, 

 elongate rhombic ; nostrils terminal ; canthus rostralis not prominent. Scaler 

 of front large, smooth, polygonal, as long as broad, anteriorly a middle series 

 separated by smaller ones from those of the canthus rostralis. Two large 

 broad plates between canthus rostralis and end of superciliary series. Latter 

 in contact medially, separated from the small occipital, which is surrounded by 

 flat subhexagonal scales, where they can be seen. Two bony ridges, converging 

 from the posterior part of the superciliaries, meet on the median line, and 

 project a short mucro, which is a little behind above the auricular opening. 

 Between these, as far as the narrow frontal region, the head is roughened by 

 minute exostoses. Supraorbital disc small, in contact with the supercilia- 

 ries, composed of three large inner and one small outer scales. Loreal rows 

 two ; auricular opening little more than half ocular. Abdominal scales 

 larger than dorsal, considerably larger than those of the front. Dorsal, late- 

 ral and longest extremital equal, smooth, flat, not regularly arranged ; epi- 

 dermis minute, scales of tail smaller than dorsal, except four median inferior 

 rows, which are keeled and nearly as large as those of front. Symphyseals 

 longer than broad, slightly divaricating posteriorly. Eight inferior labials 

 bounded below by one row of infralabials anteriorly, and two rows posteri- 

 orly ; the former larger than the labials, longitudinal. Gular fan large. 

 Extremities short ; tail a little longer than head and body, terminally com- 

 pressed. End of muzzle to ear V^ Z"'; ear to vent Z" W^; tail %" . Ante- 

 rior limb V ^"'•, posterior V V". 



Above and laterally very pale brown, with numerous short, darker, longi- 

 tudinally arranged streaks ; tail with a reddish tint. Below pale yellow ; 

 gular fan with many large black spots. 



Habitat. — Unknown. One specimen. B. M. 



Anolis g i b b i c e p 8. 

 Short and stoat ; head broad and sqaare posteriorly, short acuminate ante- 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 175 



riorly ; canthus rostralis elevated, little concave ; frontal concavity well-marked, 

 not contracted anteriorly. Eyes and ears large, orifice of latter one-half that 

 ef former. Nostrils lateral terminal. Loreal scales small, eight-rowed ; muz- 

 zle and front scales longer than broad, striate, and sometimes one-keeled, of 

 equal size, in nine longitudinal rows across middle of muzzle ; superciliariea 

 eight, a little broader than long, separated by three rows of scales. Supraor- 

 bital disc surrounded by smaller scales, and composed of six or seven elongate, 

 keeled scales. Occipital small, surrounded by small, equal, rough scales. In- 

 fralabials small, equal, numerous, keeled ; antebrachial and prefemoral keeled 

 scales larger than abdominals. Laterals and dorsals small, graniform or cari- 

 nate ; two or three median rows a little larger, less than abdominals, strongly 

 keeled. Scales round base of tail equal, keeled, as large as antebrachial. Muz- 

 zle to ear l'' 4^^^ ; between temporal ridges 9'" ; muzzle to vent 3''' 9'". An- 

 terior extremity 2" 4'". Groin to heel 2" 6'"; heel to end digit 2". 



Above bronze brown, the head browner, the tail redder ; below pale metallic 

 ferruginous with green reflections ; no regular or distinct lines or spots. 



One 9 specimen from Caraccas, with trace of gular fan, in Mus. Brit. 



**** Tail compressed, or with a crest of compressed vertebral scales ; ventrals carinaie. 

 Anolii ordinatus. 



Head broad, subacuminUte, depressed at end of muzzle, from which point to 

 middle of marginal supraorbitals equal between two latter points. Canthus ros- 

 tralis a little convex. Only one large scale on frontal ruga in front of last su- 

 perciliary. Front and muzzle scales longer than broad, one-keeled, in regular 

 longitudinal series, not imbricate ; six rows between nares, (lateral subterminal) 

 of which the four middle are equal ; five loreal rows, labials five or six. Only 

 one large infralabial. Occipital surrounded by small scales. Supraorbital disc 

 nearly or quite isolated, each scale keeled, as broad as long, three larger in inner 

 series. Auricular opening half ocular ; fan well developed. A slight dorsal 

 nuchal fold. Scales of the extremities keeled ; of femur largest, larger than 

 abdominal. A few dorsal scales gradually larger, especially two median, which 

 are weakly keeled. Tail much compressed ; scales at base minute. Trace of 

 rhombic occiput depression. End of muzzle to ear 1" 4'"; ear to vent 4" 3'". 

 Anterior limb 2'^; posterior to heel 2" 2^" ; foot 1" 8'". 



Yellowish brown, or a series of light small spots on each side of back, bordered 

 with dark brown ; and some vertical series of larger confluent similar spots, dark 

 bordered. 9 with a pale greenish median dorsal band not laterally defined 

 but bounded between femora and on base of tail by two large brown spots on 

 each side. 



Two specimens, cj^ $ • " W. Indies." 

 Anolis alliaceus. 



Near 1 e a c h i i, but with larger frontal plates and weaker face ridges, etc. 

 Four rows in the almost flat front cavity smaller than three or four polvgonals 

 between terminal scales of front ridge rows ; of these there are three — two lying 

 along canthus. Six rows between lateral nostrils. One row between superc'ilia- 

 ries, which are broader than long, and one row of granules between lateral and 

 supraorbital disc. Some swollen scales round occipital, four (five) loreal rows; 

 between posterior scales of canthus rostralis equal from same to end of muzzle. 

 Ear two-thirds of eye. Symphyseals very large, larger than first infralabial, 

 second larger than inferior labials ; third infralabial large. Lateral scales 

 minute, rough, scarcely smaller than dorsals, except two median rows of 

 larger keeled, which are less than the keeled equal brachials, which are less 

 than weakly keeled oval abdominals, which are less than keeled prefemorals. 

 A slight fold on nape. Four large inferior caudals. Dilatations not narrow. 

 Fan not very extensile, elongate. End of muzzle to ear 2J times in from ear 

 to groin. Large row of equal caudal crest scales. Laterals small, keeled ; 

 four inferior rows large. 



1864.] 




176 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMT OF 



Bright dark blaish-green, with coarser or finer black Termiculatioas on neck, 

 nape, gular and scapular regions. An elongate, black, light-edged spot above 

 axilla, OQ each side interscapular region, and one or two each side of nape. 

 Head above, anterior to line connecting angles of mouth, pale brown. End of 

 muzzle to ear U^ ^'"\ ear to vent \'f V", Anterior limb V Z'''\ posterior 

 to heel 3"; heel to end digit V ^'". 



Hah. ? Mus. Brit. 



Of the preceding species of Anolis, sixteen have been derived from the Brit- 

 ish Museum collection. Mj particular acknowledgments are due to Drs. Gray 

 ajad Giintber, the directors, for the ample facilities afforded me in the exami- 

 nation of these and of other objects of interest under their care. 



Laemanctus serratus. 



Occipital prominence shorter and more elevated than in L. 1 o n g i p e s, its 

 border serrated with six prominent angular scales. Front with three pairs of 

 large plates, the two posterior bounded exteriorly by two others. Seven su- 

 perior labials to beneath orbit ; infralabials smaller, lateral scales larger than 

 inlongipes. Scales everywhere keeled ; dorsals a little smaller than abdo- 

 minals. Collar not very distinct. Dorsal crest not elevated on the posterior 

 half of the back. 



A yellow band from loreal region to groin, brown bordered above from orbit 

 to ear. A broader pale lateral band and six brown cross bars on the back. 



This species is said to be found in the Orizaba Valley, Mexico. It is figured by 

 Prof. Dumeril in the Archives du Muse6, 1856, pi. xxi. Specimens are also in the 

 Museums of London and Leyden, the latter of which, through the liberality of 

 Prof. Hermann Schlegel, have served as the types of my description. 



The Laemancti fitzingeri, obtusirostris and undnlatus of Wieg- 

 mann, belong to the genus Urostrophus, while the L. acutirostris is a 

 true Polychrus. The type specimens of Wiegmann are preserved, under the 

 direction of Prof. Peters, in the museum of the Friederich Wilhelm's University 

 In Berlin. My thanks are due to the Professor for the many facilities which he 

 kindly placed at my disposal, duripg investigations among these and his own 

 numerous types. 



Uta nigricauda. 



Series of large dorsal scales narrow, embracing seven rows of uniform size ; 

 the scales smaller than the smooth abdominals, keeled, those posterior larger 

 than those in the anterior part of each row. Laterals minute, flat ; caudals 

 largest of all, very strongly keeled ; antebrachials and prefemorals larger than 

 dorsals, keeled. Two dermal folds on each side, and a strong one in front of 

 gular fold, beside a few cross folds in front of shoulder. Ear large, with three 

 ■mall fringe scales. Lateral occipitals small ; frontal long, undivided, pre- 

 ceded by five large scales, of which the posterior pair is in contact on the me- 

 dian line. Five rather broad supraorbitals, separated from marginal row by 

 minute scales. Infralabials five on each side, large, separated by one row of 

 junaller scales from labials ,: the anterior pair in contact. Eleven and twelve 

 femoral pores. End of muzzle to ear 5 lin,; ear to vent 1 in. 5^ 1. ; vent to end 

 of tail 3 in. 2 1. ; anterior limb 9 1. ; posterior 1 in. 2 1. ; hind foot 6j 1. 



Brown above, sometimes very dark, with seven short lateral black cross- 

 bands, sometimes light edged behind, on each side ; never confluent across the 

 median line. Tail black or blackish brown. Head above lighter, with a few 

 superciliary brown specks or cross lines. Each side of abdomen blue from 

 axilla to groin, deepest and nearly meeting other side on the median line. 

 Throat in males orange. 



Uab. — Cape St. Lucas, Lower California. From the Xantus collections, (No. 

 3723) Mus. Smithsonian, No. 5307. Mus. A. N. S. Phila. 



This species is nearest U. graciosa, of the Colorado region, but has a 

 shorter muzzle, broader front, and other distinguishing traits. It was found 



[Aug 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



ia considerable abundance with U. stansburiana and tbalassina. U. 

 bicarinata has been described by Prof. Dum^ril as typical of his genus 

 Phymatolepis ; it cannot be separated from Uta. His Sauromalus is also Eu- 

 phryne of Baird. 



Sceloporus atiformis. 



Ten longitudinal rows of large, highly keeled, shortly mucronate dorsal 

 scales, separated by many lateral series of minute flat scales, from the smaller 

 entire edged abdominals. From axilla to ear the laterals are granular; a der- 

 mal fold extends to temporal from scapular region, aud sends branches to a V- 

 shaped fold, which extends downwards and backwards from the posterior bor- 

 der of the large auricular opening. Six (seven) rows of shortly highly keeled 

 scales on nape ; from which point to rump are about 26 transverse series. Gu- 

 lar scales entire ; three moderate infralabials. Six rather short supraorbitals, 

 separated from marginals by three rows of small scales. Interparietal as broad 

 as long, subrectangular, with two parietals oq each side. Frontoparietals not 

 subdivided transversely, as is usual, but subdivided longitudinally to frontal ; 

 latter a little longer than broad; first row between canthi of three broad plates 

 fully in contact. Profile arched, muzzle prominent, narrow. Thirteen femoral 

 pores. Tail cylindrical, long. From end of muzzle to ear *1\ 1. ; from ear to 

 vent 2 in. 1 1. ; vent to end of tail 5 in. 7 1. ; anterior limb 1 in. 2 1. ; posterior 

 limb 2 in. ; hind foot 11 1. 



General color blackish, with numerous indistinct lighter cross bars. Below 

 pale greenish grey ; gular region greenish, with narrow light cross lines. 



Ilab. — Near Colima, Mexico. Obtained by John Xantus, U. S. Consul at 

 Manzanillo. 



A species technically nearest to the S. c o u c h i i, which exhibits much 

 smaller dorsal scales, and approaching the genus Uta in its scutellation, 



Sceloporus pyrocephalus. 



Dorsal scales much larger than ventral, strongly keeled, unimucronate ; in 

 about twenty-five transverse oblique series fiom nape to crural region. Lateral 

 scales larger than abdominal ; of the latter a portion only slightly emarginate. 

 Scales from ear to shoulder squamous; those of ear fringe a little larger than 

 those anterior to them. Tail much compressed. Femoral pores twelve. Su- 

 praorbitals five, transverse, in immediate contact with narrow marginals, not 

 touching superciliaries. Frontoparietal narrow ; frontal broader than long, 

 not divided. Parietals exceedingly small ; interparietal large, much broader 

 than long. Frontonasals two each side broader than long ; posterior in con- 

 tact; anterior embracing broad hexagonal internasal. Infralabials small, ex- 

 cept the anterior pair, which is large and extensively in contact. From end 

 of muzzle to ear 6 lines; ear to vent 1 inch 9 lines; length of anterior limb 11 

 lines ; of hinder limb 1 inch 5 lines ; of hinder foot 7 lines. 



Greenish brown, with a broad black band from the scapular region to the 

 groin, light bordered above. Below yellowish, sides bluish ash to near the 

 median line, on each side of which is a series of from seven to nine trans- 

 verse blue bars. Upper labial and gular region striped with a eeries of black 

 or bluish lines, which converge posteriorly on a paler or deeper yellow ground. 

 Top of the head bright chestnut red ; the fontanelle white or pink, surround- 

 ed by a pale area. In many specimens, especially females, the head is brown 

 above, except the parietal spot. 



Hab. — Near Colima, Mexico ; obtained by Jno. Xantus, U. S. Consul at 

 Manzanillo, where it is abundant. Collection Nos. 1223, 1311. This small spe- 

 cies may be known from the th ay e r i by the extension outward of its supra.; 

 orbitals, and small size of its parietals, as well as by coloration, and its re- 

 markably compressed tail. 



Sceloporus o 1 i g o p o r u s. 

 Dorsal scales large, mucronate, in twenty rows from interscapular to sacral 



1864.] 12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



regions, larger than laterals, which are larger than ventrals: last with a sharp 

 mucro, and one or two emarginations. Tail cylindrical ; femoral pores oalj 

 two or three. Parietals large ; interparietal longer than broad. Frontal and 

 frontoparietal broad; former longer, undivided. Divided frontonasals and in- 

 ternasals in contact; supraorbitals in contact with both marginals and super- 

 ciliary ridge, four on each side. Three pairs infralabials, transverse, the ante- 

 rior barely in contact. Three bordering scales of ear, not larger than those 

 jireceding. End of muzzle to ear 11 lines ; ear to vent 3 inches, 5 lines ; length 

 of tail 3 inches ; length of anterior extremity 8 lines ; posterior 2 inches 7 

 lines ; hind foot 1 inch. Males, above brown, with a yellowish dorsolateral 

 band and seven or eight pairs of yellowish, anteriorly black edged spots on the 

 back. Top of head red ; below whitish ; sides faintly blue tinged. Females 

 brown-olive, wii h a paler dorsolateral band. Throat, a broad band to shoulders, 

 and sides of abdomen^ blue. 



Hab. — Near Colima, Mexico ; from the Xantus coll. 



A species to be compared with clarkii, zosteromus and s p i n o s u s, 

 and differing from them and all other species in the fewness of the femoral 

 pores, thus approaching the genus Proctotretus. The frontal is not narrow as 

 in zosteromus, nor the ventrals rounded emarginate as in it and the other 

 species. The supraorbitals are bordered by small scales in s p i n o s u s. 



Sceloporus malachiticus. 



Dorsal scales larger than lateral which are larger than ventral, strongly mu- 

 cronate, in 25 to 28 rows from interscapular to sacral region, fourteen rows 

 between axillae and eight to ten between femora. Scales before shoulder 

 squamous; marginal ear scales very small ; supraorbitals five, broad, short, 

 separated by small scales from superciliary ridge, and larger scales from nar- 

 row marginals. Parietals small, subtriangular ; interparietal with parallel 

 lateral borders, longer or as long as broad. Internasal broad ; its anterior su- 

 ture nearly straight. Infralabials small ; anterior little or not in cootact. 

 Abdominal and gular scales not mucronate, and apparently not emarginate. 

 l^ateral scales, even to axilla, strongly mucronate, four times emarginate to ser- 

 rate. End of muzzle to ear 8i lines ; ear to vent 2 inches 5 lines ; anterior 

 limb 1 inch, 5 lines ; posterior limb 2 inches ; tail ? ; sixteen femoral pores. 



General color bright green, with angular dark cross-bars, five or six on 

 each side. Sides of abdomen and throat blue; the latter extending to nape. 



Habitat. — Costa Kica, near Arriba, whence the Smithsonian Institution has 

 received specimens, 6492, through Chas. N. Rioite. 



This animal is the tropical representative of our S. u n d u 1 a t u s, though 

 in general appearance not unlike the f o r m o s u s. The much stronger nuicro- 

 nation and eniargination of the scales, especially on the sides, as well as the 

 color, are distinguishing traits. 



Phrynosoma a sio. 



Nostrils Literal, in the line of the canthns rostralis. Three or four series of 

 lateral gular scales on each side, which are short and subequal. Rostral pre- 

 sent flat semi-discoid. Eight scales on sharp infralabial ridge. Superior labials 

 nine' subequal, not produced into horns continuous with temporo-occipital 

 crest. Horns of latter, two diverging temporal, separated from two vertical 

 occipital, which are separated by a dei)ression. One high acute posterior super- 

 ciliary on each side. Auricular opening large, bounded below and behind 

 ■ each by a bunch of spines. Two lateral series, superior large. Pectoral and 

 aborainal scales large, keeeled ; femoral pores 7 to 0. A dorsolateral series of 

 very thick spinous processes, and two median dorsal rows of fiat mucronate 

 scales which become four rows of spines on the tail ; one median nuchal row. 

 Femur and tibia with two rows of spines each ; three rows of very stroriKly 

 keeled plates on tl e humcrns. Tail of (^ as long as from shoulder to vent ; i. e., 

 3 inches 4 lines. End of muzzle to ear 1 inch ; to shou der 1 inch 6 lines ; to 



[Aug. 




^ NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 179 



end of temporal horn 1 inch 4 lines ; to end of superciliary do. 1 inch. Width 

 of front between middle of superciliary ridges 8 lines. Width of body (exclusive 

 of lateral spines) 3 inches 4 lines. 



General color ashy ; the head pale ; the body brownish : from occiput to groin 

 between dorso-lateral and lateral rows of spines, deep brown, leaving a narrow 

 pale space on nape. Four broad brown cross-bands anterior to sacral region, 

 pale bordered posteriorly ; nearly obsolete in <^ ; tail with many brown, pale- 

 edged cross-bands; below unspotted. 



Habitat. — Colima, Mexico ; from consul John Xantus. 



This is the largest species of horned frog, and very distinct. Its affinities are 

 between cornutum and xoronatum. 



Gerrhonotus gramineus. 



Two pairs supranasals ; the posterior longitudinal, elongate ; internasal 

 smaller than frontonasals. Four short supraorbitals ; four marginals. Eleven 

 supralabials. Two frenonasals, the smaller above the larger; one frenal 

 and one very large freno-ocular. Six in first, five in second row of infralabiale. 

 Muzzle not produced ; plates of head thickened and roughened, especially en- 

 larged on the temporal region. Dorsal scales in twenty-three longitudinal se- 

 ries from nape to opposite groin, and in fourteen longitudinal rows ; in form 

 twice as long as wide, thick, with an obtuse keel, roughened in old specimens. 

 Abdominal scales in twelve and fourteen series ; lateral fold very weak. Ex- 

 tended limbs touching, or the posterior reaching wrist. Muzzle to ear 1 inch ; 

 to vent 4 inches 4 lines ; vent to axilla 2 inches 11 lines ; to end of tail 6 in. 

 3 lines ; anterior limb 1 inch 2 lines; posterior 1 inch 7 lines. 



Above bright pea green, each transverse series of scales blackish at the 

 base, and yellowish at the tips. Below pale green, with a reddish tint in 

 some, gular region and lower jaw yellow, abruptly separated from the green 

 of the neck. 



Habitat. — Orizaba, Mexico. Mus. Smithsonian. From a fine collection (No. 

 50), made by Prof. Sumichrast, which contained also Spilotes poecilono- 

 tus and Atropus undulatus. The Professor has recently published some 

 interesting observations on the habits of certain Mexican reptiles in the Ann. 

 Mag. N. Hist., 1864, p. 497, 



Diploglossus steindachneri. 



Tail cyclotetragonal. Scales in thirty-two longitudinal rows, (ten dorsal), 

 without central keel, eight and ten striate. Limbs weak, not meeting when 

 pressed to side by the length of the hind foot; digits much compressed, claws 

 acute. Five supraorbitals; frontal longer than broad, subparallelogrammic. 

 No frontonasals ; internasal broader than frontal. Supranasals very large. 

 Two frenonasals, one above the other ; one very high prefrenal ; two postfrenals, 

 one above the other ; one freno-orbitar. Nine supralabials. Interparietal tri- 

 angular, longer than broad, separating the short parietals, whose posterior out- 

 line is emarginate and embraces the broader than long postparietals ; fronto- 

 parietals very small. End of muzzle to shoulder 1 in. 1 1. ; shoulder to vent 2 

 in. 6 1. ; vent to end of tail 5 in. 2 1. ; posterior limb 1 in. 2 1. 



Olivaceous, the sides tessellated with small black spots, which become bands 

 on the axillary and postauricular regions ; lips greenish, black spotted ; below 

 uniform pale greenish. 



Hab. — Orizaba, Mexico. Sent to the Mus. Smithsonian, (No. 6342), by Prof. 

 F. Sumichrast. Dedicated to Dr. Franz Steindachner, of the Imperial Museum 

 of Vienna. 



Lampropholis a s s a t u s. 



Scales small, entirely equal, in thirty longitudinal rows. Body subcylin- 

 drical ; head short, not depressed. Tympanum large, in a deep depression, 

 which is not fringed. Nasals and frontonasals respectively not in contact. In- 



1864.] 




180 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



ternasal little broader than long ; frontal much produced anteriorly, very acu- 

 minate posteriorly. Single frontoparietal broad as long, with transverse pos- 

 terior suture. Four rather large supraorbitals. Interparietal longer than 

 broad; parietals narrow, in contact posteriorly, not succeeded by a double row 

 of transverse scales. One high frenonasal, one frenal, two freno-orbitars, one 

 above the other. Superior labials seven. Palatine maxillary laminae over- 

 lapping their whole length. From end of muzzle to axilla 1^ lines; axilla to 

 vent 1 in. 1 1. Length of tail 2 in. 5 1. ; of hind limb 6.] lines. 



Above brown fulvous ; below pale fulvous ; a faint dark line from eye across 

 scapular region. 



ffab. — Guatimala. Taken by Capt. J, M. Dow near the Volcano of Isalco, 

 and presented by him to the Mus. Acad. Nat. Sciences. 



The genus Lampropholis was first established by Dr. J. E. Gray, and called 

 by him Mocoa. I prefer using the more classic and prior name of Fitzinger, 

 though the genus is not to be attributed to this author. The present species 

 is the first which has been found on the American continent. The American 

 species placed in it by Gray belong to the genus OUgosoma Grd., under which 

 Lygosomella Grd., Leptosoma Fitz., and perhaps Homhronia Grd., may be placed 

 as synonyms. 



Oligosoma g e m m i n g e r 1. 



Scales in twenty-seven longitudinal rows ; the two median nuchal scarcely 

 larger. Body stout, cylindrical, limbs short, weak, the anterior reaching the 

 anterior margin of ear anteriorly, posteriorly not touching extremity of ap- 

 pressed hind limb by its length. Seven upper labials ; one frenonasal, frenal, 

 and freno-orbitar each ; parietals short ; interparietal nearly broad as long. 

 End of muzzle to axilla 10 lines ; axilla to vent 1 in. 8 1. ; posterior limb 8J 1. 



Above fulvous or brown ; beneath yellowish white. A dark dorso-lateral 

 streak extends from the nostril to a distance on the tail, which is light bordered 

 above on the body, and borders above a dark lateral shade. 



Hab. — Orizaba, Mexico.' From Prof. F. Sumichrast. Mus. Smithsonian, 

 No. 6331. 



This Mexican representative of our 0. laterale difl'ers in its stouter body 

 and shorter limbs, its nearly equal dorsal and nuchal scales, its much shorter 

 posterior cephalic and labial plates, and in color. Named in pleasant recollec- 

 tion of Dr. Max. Gemminger, of Munich, author of Fauna Boica and other works. 



Paludicola pustulosa. 



Muzzle compressed, narrow, plane above, produced beyond labial margin; 

 canthus rostralis rounded. Nares nearly terminal ; eyes rather large, each lid 

 equaling the frontal width. Tympanum concealed; a large vocal sac. Skin 

 above covered with small warts, some of which are'linear and curved. No 

 skin folds. Toes elongate, free, knobbed at extremities and under each joint; 

 two metatarsal and one median inner tarsal spur; no tarsal fold. Below, on 

 the breast, smooth, minutely rugose posteriorly. Two large metacarpal warts. 

 Heel reaching middle of orbit. From end of muzzle to shoulder T 1. ; to vent 

 1 in. 3 1. ; width across angle of jaws 5 1. ; length of anterior limb 10 1. ; of pos- 

 terior 1 in. 9 1. ; of hind foot 1 1. 



Above blackish brown ; elbow, tarsus and foot broadly banded with pink 

 grey ; below and on inner surfaces of limbs yellow, marbled with black, the 

 latter color predominating anteriorly, but divided by a median yellow line to 

 symphysis mandibuli. 



Uab. — New Grenada, on the River Truando. Obtained by W, S. Wood, of 

 Michler's Surveying Expedition. No. 4339. 



Paludicola is a genus of Wagler's which has been latterly overlooked. It 

 is the only one beside Scbismaderma among the Bufonidie which lacks the pa- 

 rotoids ; from this genus it difiFers in its manubrium sterni, free toes, and tarsal 

 spur, la this last respect resembling Gomphobates biligonigerus. It 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



agrees with Bufo in the fully developed frontoparietal boaes, differing from 

 Epidalea (Bufo c a 1 a m i t a Auct.) and Pseudophryne in this respect. 



Phyllomedusa dacnicolor. 



Parotoids exceedingly weak, if present. Fingers very slightly, toes one-third 

 webbed. Labial margin projecting, profile sloping. Tympanum one-half 

 orbit. Eyes not very prominent, transparent, inferior palpebra reticulated with 

 white veins. Mandibular outlines straight. Tongue long, pyriform, openly 

 emarginate posteriorly. Skin above smooth ; inferior areolations not extend- 

 ing on pectoral or gular regions. Vomerine teeth in two straight transverse 

 rows between anterior margin of inner nares. A few small pustules on ante- 

 rior part of sides, which are yellow, like the inferior surfaces. Superior sur- 

 faces (narrowly on femur,) violet blue. Upper lip not light bordered ; gular 

 region and posterior faces of femora immaculate. From end of muzzle to 

 posterior border of tympanum 10 lines ; from angle to angle of mandible I in. 

 1 1. ; end of muzzle to vent 3 in. 6 1. ; anterior extremity 2 in. ; posterior limb 

 3 in. 10 1. 



ITab. — Near Oolima ; from the large Xantusian Coll. 



This species diverges widely from the type of Phyllomedusa in its webbed 

 toes and almost absent glands, but the glands are only a little stronger in the 

 P. a z u r e a. It affords an easy passage to the true Hylae, whose family it en- 

 ters, by the genus Agalychnis Cope. The type of the latter is Hyla c a 1 11- 

 d r y a s Cope, and H. moreletii and holochlora are the other species. 

 They have the tongue long and extensively free, sometimes emarginate, and 

 the transparent inferior palpebra reticulated with strong white veins. The 

 inner toes are remarkably lengthened and free of movement. 



On the Limits and Belations of the SANIFOBMES. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



Similar relations to those which exist between the mammalia Implacentia- 

 lia and the remainder of the class, and vice-versa, are apparently repeated in 

 other groups of greater or less rank in the animal kingdom. Among the 

 tortoises, the Pleurodera separate themselves most strongly by the union of 

 their ischia with the plastron, the absence of the arch of the o. prefrontale 

 which elsewhere descends to the o. palatinum, or vomer, and their intergular 

 shield ; while they present modifications among themselves characteristic 

 of most of the other families, arranging themselves according to the develop- 

 ment of the parieto-mastoid arch, in an ascending series, which terminates 

 in Bothremys and Podocnemys, where the temporal fossa is entirely roofed 

 in, as in the sea turtles. In the Lacertilia Acrodonta we have a group 

 equally removed from others of the order. The acrodont dentition, the great 

 development of the o. dentale and final extinction of the o. operculare, etc., 

 and the exclusion of the premaxillare from contact with the vomer, are pecu- 

 liarities not found associated in other lizards, while their parallel representa- 

 tion of the groups of the Iguanidoe at least, among the Pleurodonta, is well 

 known. In general these also form an ascending series to be measured by 

 the gradual extinction of the o. premaxillare* and o. columellum, which 

 finally occurs in Chamaeleo. 



The Raniformes among Batrachia Salientia are in many respects compara- 

 ble to the Acrodonta. They stand at the head of their order, possessiil^ the 

 most compact, powerful and complete organization, and in spite of the con- 

 stant imitation of the many lower types, their is a certain homogeneity in 

 important points. The structure of the sternum separates them at once, and 



* This boae, said to be single in Lacertilia, is divided in all the true Scincldae, in PhylluruB 

 among the Qeccotidse, and, according to Owen, in Hatteria. 



1864.] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



presents less variety than in the other suborders. The o. o. coracoidea are 

 distally much dilated horizontally, especially anteriorly, and in close contact 

 on the median line ; their axis is transverse. The o. o. epicoracoidea are also 

 transverse, and usually in contact medially, always resting against the ante- 

 rior angles of the coracoidea. The manubrial and xiphisternal pieces are 

 dilated proximally and become cylindrical or styloid, terminating in a carti- 

 laginous disc. The only other cartilages of the sternum are the intersutural. 

 Frogs with this sternum always have a cylindrical diapaphyses of the sacrum, 

 and never a fronto-parietal fontanelle. In the ordinary type of sternum the 

 coracoidea are little or not dilated, and converge posteriorly without meeting, 

 while the epicoracoidea converge anteriorly and are connected with the for- 

 mer by longitudinal arched cartilages ; hence I have termed these Arciferi. 

 Among the toothless Batrachia or Bufoniformes (which have dilated sacral 

 diapophyses, except in one genus), some forms show an approach to the Rani- 

 form style, while in the Aglossa we find the most exaggerated Arciferous 

 type. 



The Raniformes embrace but one family, but this imitates well many 

 genera of Arciferi. The metropolis of the former, as of the Acrodonta, is the 

 Regio Palaeotropica, while the latter have but few representatives out of the 

 R. R. Neotropica and Australis, where but one or two species of the former 

 occur. In both we can trace a series in which the outer metatarsal is gradu- 

 ally liberated from the penultimate, to afford greater extension for the web 

 in the most aquatic types, and among those where these bones are bound, 

 from webless to webbed types. In both we have burrowing and arboreal 

 genera. 



In strict reference to the extension of the webs the following parallels may 

 be drawn : 



Raniformei. Arciferi. 

 External metatarsal free. 



Aquatic. Rana. Pseudis. 



Subfossorial. Hoplobatrachus. Myxophyes. 



External metatarsal attached. 



Feet webbed. 



Burrowing. Pyxicephalus. Tomopterna. 



Arboreal. Leptopelis. Hyla. 



" Hyperolius. Hylella. 



Subarboreal, Hylambates. Nototrema. 



Feet not webbed. 

 Terrestrial. Cassina. Cystignathus. 



" spurred Hemimantis. Gomphobates. 



Comparing the genera in a general physiological sense, we may parallelize 

 further — 



Aquatic, with digital dilatations, — 



Heteroglossa. Acris. 



Arboreal. Polypedates. { Tr^chycephalus. 



" Rhacophorus. Agalychnis. 



It ift, however, remarkable that the Raniform tree-frogs nearly always have 

 the external metatarsal bone free, the Arciferous always bound ; the terminal 

 phalanges of the latter are constructed on a ball and claw type, in the former 

 they are T-shaped or bifurcate, except in the single West African genus Lep- 

 topelis, where the South American type is repeated. 



Evidently belonging to former times, as their present weak representation 

 and generalized structure seem to indicate, are two families of Arciferi not 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 183 



at all imitated among the Raniformia. These are the Discoglossidae and Aste- 

 rophrydidae. In both the vertebra; are opisthocoelian instead of procoelian, 

 and the sacral diapaphyses are dilated. The latter approaches closest to the 

 ordinary type, having a simple coccyx with but one condyle, no ribs or fron- 

 to-parietal fontanelle, and a styloid xiphisternum. The genera are Megalo- 

 phrys, Xenophrys, Asterophrys, Leptobrachium and Cryptotis, one Indian, one 

 Australian, the rest Malaysian. The former family is the most remarkable. 

 It has rudimentary ribs, a xiphisternum divided into two long haemapophyses, 

 a coccyx with diapophyses and two condyles, and, in the recent types, a fronto- 

 parietal fontanelle. The genera are Latonia, Discoglossus, Alytes, and Bom- 

 binator, all European. There are no arboreal types in these two families, 

 and their terminal phalanges are straight, conic. They form the nearest living 

 approach to the Batrachia Gradientia. 



The Batrachian which have been called Proteroglossa form, I believe, a 

 family — Rhinophrynidai — among the Bufoniformcs. 



Description of a GAK-PIKE, supposed to be new— Lepidosteus (Cylindrosteus) 



oculatus. 



BY PROFESSOR ALEXANDER WINCHELL. 



In the month of February, 1863, the Museum of the University of Michigan 

 received a specimen of an unknown gar-pike, from Duck Lake, Calhoun Co. , 

 Michigan. As Prof. Agassiz had made a special study of this genus, and had 

 declared that he was acquainted with twenty-two species, I transmitted to him 

 a brief description of the fish ; but, for some reason, I received no reply. I 

 sent the same to Prof. Baird, but obtained no assistance ; I then wrote Mr. 

 Putnam, at Cambridge, for references to all the published descriptions of 

 Lepidostei, and, a few months ago, received the information sought ; though 

 most of it was already within my reach. On Prof. Agassiz' visit to Ann 

 Arbor, last winter, during my absence this fish was shown to him by Dr. Sa- 

 ger. Prof. Agassiz thought it had been described by Dr. Kirtland, but he 

 could not say in what work the description had appeared; The impression 

 given was, that it had been published in some agricultural work, in Ohio, not 

 generally accessible, and not likely to be seen by ichthyologists. I wrote to 

 Dr. Kirtland on this point but received no reply. I am convinced that this 

 species, if ever described, has not been made known through such a medium 

 that the description can be said to be published to the scientific world. I am, 

 therefore, determined to run the slight risk of creating another synonym, by 

 offering the following name and detailed desciiption. 



Lepidosteus (Cylindrosteus) oculatus. Winchell. 



General form elongate-spindle-shaped, laterally flattened toward the tail, 

 and vertically flattened from the nape forwards. Greatest he'ght contained 

 10^ times in the whole length ; greatest width the same. Lower outline 

 nearly straight, slightly ascending at the throat, and more so from a point an- 

 terior to the anal to the base of the caudal fin ; upper outline gently curved 

 along the back, anteriorly somewhat more rapidly curved to a point over the 

 angle of the mouth ; lateral outline gently and equally curved from the ex- 

 tremity of the snout to the base of the tail ; greatest vertical diameter through 

 a point about three scales in front of the abdominal fins ; greatest transverce 

 'diameter through a point about six scales in front of the abdominals. 



Number of scales in a diagonal series (between the dorsal and ventral rows) 

 18, occasionally increased to 19, by the interpo ation of an additional scale 

 near the ventral row ; number of scales in the dorsal row, between the head 

 and the dorsal fin, 48 ; behind the dorsal fin, 8 or 9. Tt;e first diagonal ferits 

 of scales do not meet on the nape of the neck, being separated by the pair of 

 mutually equivalent scales of the dorsal row, which belong in the second di- 



1864.] 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



agonal series ; these two scales are pentangular. The scales of the dorsal row 

 increase in width from the third to the sixth ; the third is small, triangular ; 

 the fourth, rounded posteriorly and slightly curved on the four other sides ; 

 the fifth becomes emarginate posteriorly, convex on the two contiguous sides, 

 and overlapped antero-latemlly by the adjoining scales of the next anterior 

 diagonal series ; the sixth exhibits the same form with a greater transverse 

 diameter ; the seventh is small again, and the width gradually increases to 

 the tenth ; the eleventh in turn is small, and the size increases to the six- 

 teenth, beyond which the size is rather variable. From the sixth to the 

 twenty-second, the general form of the sixth is preserved, with a tendency to 

 become less and less emarginate, and more elongate longitudinally. The lat- 

 eral scales are rhomboidal, those which lie along the lateral line having the 

 dimension which coincides with the direction of the diagonal series one and 

 one-third times the other dimension. The longer sides are nearly straight ; 

 the shorter, sigmoidally curved by lines which first bend downwards and 

 then upwards. This form of the scales is shown to some extent by nine or 

 more lateral rows on each side. Generally, the scales nearer the head are less 

 angulated behind ; while those toward the other extremity are more drawn 

 out. The surfaces of the scales, where not worn, are rough to the touch ; 

 and under a magnifier, and even to the naked eye, are seen to be covered 

 with fine granules. The first diagonal series is sculptured by vermicular, in- 

 tersecting furrows, which show a tendency to radiate from the central area. 

 Similar sculpturing can be traced on the sides, as far back as the sixth series. 



Head one fourth the total length of the fish, lanceolate in outline, laterally 

 tapering, with slight curvature from the hinder border of the opercula to the 

 extremity of the truncately rouuded snout. Eyes large, situated less than 

 the diameter of the orbit behind the extremity of the lower jaw. Projection 

 of the upper jaw beyond the lower, equal to the distance between the nos- 

 trils, which, opening upwards, in oval apertures, are situated half the same 

 distance behind the tip of the snout. Lower jaw a little more than half the 

 whole length of the head. Angle of the mouth midway between the tip of 

 the snout and the, hinder margin of the operculum. Each ramus of the jaw 

 presenting below a flat surface, with parallel borders extending directly back 

 for a short distance, and then slightly arching outwards ; on its lateral surface 

 regularly increasing in vertical width to the small "angular piece ;" through 

 half its whole length projecting laterally beyond the maxillary ; furnished 

 with a principal row of strong conical teeth slightly bent backwards and in- 

 wards ; the lips furnished with a smaller set, and the internal surface clothed 

 with a multitude of dentelets. The principal and labial teeth of the maxil- 

 lary and intermaxillary are similar to those of the lower jaw; the palatines 

 are set with numerous fine teeth. The tO[) of the head is somewhat flattened, 

 becoming decidedly so on the snout. The suture bounding externally the 

 frontal and parietal bones is a distinct, deep furrow, gently deflected outward 

 at the base of the maxillary, behind which is a deep supra-orbital emargina- 

 tion of the frontal, which thence continues to widen regularly to its junction 

 with the parietal. Opercular semicircular behind, nearly straight in front ; 

 interopercular lanceolate, widening backwards, somewhat pointed in front, 

 abruptly round-cuneate behind, with a triangular projection between the 

 opercular and preopercular. Occiput regularly concave behind, except a 

 backward swell in the middle. Whole surface of the head handsomely sculp- 

 tured, the vertex rather deeply so ; on the snout and the sides and base of the 

 head the embossed lines tend to become broken into granules. 



Pectoral fins separated from the operculum by a single diagonal series of 

 scales ; the ventral fins midway between the extremities, situated on the di- 

 agonal series which embraces the 17th scale in the dorsal row ; anal fin a lit- 

 tle more than its width from the caudal, interrupting the 38th — 42d diagonal 

 series of scales ; dorsal fin of the same width as the anal, and situated so that 

 the last three rays fall in the rear of it ; pectoral fins narrow, sharply rounded 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



18d 



at the extremity, with the middle ray the longest ; ventral fins relatively 

 broader, rounded, with the second and third rays the longest, the last ray be- 

 ing the width of the fin shorter than the first ; anal fin a little shorter than 

 the ventral, but twice as broad, rounded, with the 3d and 4th rays the long- 

 est ; caudal flu symmetrically and elliptically rounded at the extremity ; the 

 first (upper) ray reaching a little furtlier back than the last ; the first three 

 rays considerably smaller than the last three, so that the sixth ray falls in 

 the middle ; sliin terminating in a line stretching sigmoidally backwards from 

 below to above, so that the base of the last ray is two-thirds the width of the 

 tail anterior to the base of the first ray. A series of scales diminishing in 

 size continues along the first and last rays of the caudal, and the first ray of 

 all the other fins. 



Ray formula : D. 8 ; C. 11 ; A. 8 ; V. 6 ; P. 9. 



The ground color is pale yellowish-white, becoming deeper on the sides and 

 back, and nearly white below. This is varied by a system of pale black macu- 

 lation, which, along the back, conceals most of the ground color, and on the 

 sides, about half of it, while the belly is almost spotless. On most parts of 

 the body the maculae are irregular, with a tendency on the sides to elonga- 

 tion beyond the length of one or two scales. On the top of the head and the 

 operculum they become sharply defined circular spots, with intermediate 

 blackish dots, while the throat is spotted, in the style of the breast of a 

 partridge. The fins are all maculate with oval, badly defined spots. 



Measurements. — Total length 32"5 inches. Length of head from snout to 

 occiput 6'8 ; to posterior margin of operculum 7'7 ; length ot tail on the 

 middle line 4 ; upper jaw to angle of mouth 4 ; width of snout one-fourth 

 inch back from nostrils 062 ; width at angle of mouth 1'5 ; width of neck 

 between posterior margins of opercula 2-2 ; greatest height of body 3 ; great- 

 est width 3 ; height of head at occiput 2; at angle of mouth 8 ; length 

 from tip of muzzle to insertion of pectoral 6*7 ; to insertion of ventral 9 ; to 

 insertion of anal 17 ; diameter of orbit 0-57. 



Comparisons. — In form, this species approximates most nearly to Cylindros- 

 teus latirostris, Girard, from Texas. It difl'ers specifically in having a larger 

 orbit, the operculum and cheek less elongated behind it, the muzzle tapering 

 a little more rapidly, and two or three fewer scales in an oblique series. The 

 color, besides, is much less uniform, and the habitat remote. From C. pla- 

 tostomus, Rafinesque, it difiers in having the caudal fin more nearly symmetri- 

 cal ; rays of ventral fin not cartilaginous ; pectoral longer, narrower and 

 straighter. The caudal has one more ray, and the anal and pectoral each one 

 less. The snout widens less rapidly, and the scales are more rhombic. The 

 coloration, especially the sharply defined circular spots, is strikingly peculiar. 

 No spots, however, exist on the median line behind the anal fin. There are 

 no other described species with which the present one requires to be compared, 

 unless it be C. allies and C longiroitrisoi Rafinesque, and L. gracilis, Agassiz. 

 The two former are very doubtful species, and the description of the latter is 

 not at present accessible to me.. 



The following is now a list of the described species of Lepidosteidse, ar- 

 ranged under three genera, discriminated according to information at hand. 

 No attempt is made, at present, to exhibit the complicated synonymy, as the 

 result would necessarily be too imperfect, from the want of adequate means 

 of comparison. 



Lepidosteus Huronensis, Richardson. 



" gracilis, Agassiz. 



*' oxyurus, (Rafinesque,) 



Kirtland. 



" spatula, Lac^p^de. 



" osseus, Lac^phde. 



" leptorhynchus, Girard. 



Cylindrosteus oculatus, Winchelt. 



1864.] 



? Cylindrosteus longirostris, Rafinesque. 

 ? " albus, Rafinesque. 



" platystomus, Raf. 



" latirostris, Girard. 



Atractosteus ferox, Rafinesque. 



" Berlandieri, Girard. 



" tristcechus. Gill. 



" tropicus, Gill. 




18£^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Or 



September ^th. 

 Mr. Cassin in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"Synopsis of the Pleuro'nectoids of the eastern coast of North Ame- 

 rica." " Synopsis of the Cyclopteroids of eastern North America." 

 " Note on the Paralepidoids and Microstomatoids, etc." And " Sy- 

 nopsis of the Pleuronectoids of California, &c." By Theo. Grill. 



" Description of new Genera and Species of North American Myri- 

 opoda." By Dr. H. G. Wood, Jr. 



September \^th. 

 Dr. Hays in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



September 2Qih. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of new Genera and species of Pleuronectoids." "On 

 the affinities of several doubtful British Fishes ;" and "Notes on the 

 Family of Sticheeoids." By Theo. Gill. 



" Notes on Shells, with Descriptions of new fossil Genera and Spe- 

 cies." By T. A. Conrad. 



September 27 th. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Description of New Grenera and Species of North American MTBIAPODA. 



BY DR. H. C. WOOD, JR. 



Family POLYZONID^. 



Genus OCTOGLENA,* Wood. 



Oculi octo, in seriebus duobus simplicibus dispositi. 



The eyes in this genus are very prominent, and are arranged in two straight 

 rows, which are so placed, one on each side, near the base of the antennae as 

 to be convergent inferiorly. 



0. BIVIRGATA. 



0. brunneus, utrinque virga fusca ornatus ; segmentis fere 45. 



The head of this species is very small, and is pilose. The antennae are rather 



* yKmn oculus. 



[Sept, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 187 



heavy, and are very pilose. The eyes are large and very prominent. The 

 dorsum is slightly convex, and is ornamented on each side by a broad fuscous 

 stripe, which is intersected by numerous, indistinct, dark lines. 



The scuta are very smooth, and have no distinct lateral plates, but their 

 edges are rather thin and strongly elevated. The penultimate scutum is much 

 broader than its neighbors. The last scutum is very small. The feet are dark 

 colored. There are two or three specimens in the possession of the Academy, 

 which, I believe, were collected by Dr. John L. Le Conte, U.S.A., in the moun- 

 tains of Georgia. 



Family SIPHONOPHORID^. 



Genus BRACHYCYBE. 



Rostrum acutum, brevissimum, antennis multo breviore. 



I have never studied the allied genus Siphonophora of Brandt, but, if the 

 characters relied on by that author are at all generic, there can be no doubt 

 that the American species belongs to a distinct genus. In the Siphonophora 

 the rostrum or mouth is very much elongated, and approaches the antennae in 

 length. In Brachycybe the latter are several times the longer. 



B. iKCONTir, "Wood. 



Fulvo-brunneus? dorsomodice convexo, medio leviter canaliculato ; antennis 

 parvis, filiformibus, pilosis ; scatorum superficie asperata, obscure transverse 

 canaliculata ; scuto postremo postice spinas obtusse serie instructo ; laminia 

 lateralibus longis, angustis, vix sejunctis ; segmentis 47 ; pedibus breve pilosis. 



In our specimens, which have been^Jreserved for a long time in alcohol, the 

 color is a light yellowish-brown. The anterior scuta are tuberculate, the pos- 

 terior merely roughened. Each has a more or less obsolete transverse groove 

 extending along the lateral lamina. The latter are very long and narrow ; they 

 are placed very close together, and are often bent slightly backwards. Their 

 external margin is somewhat oblique, and is furnished in all except, perhaps, 

 the most anterior, with a pore. The small feet are entirely concealed beneath 

 the broad body. The male genital appendages consist of two pairs of acute 

 feet-like processes. It aifords me much pleasure to dedicate this species to 

 Surgeon John L. Le Conte, U. S. A., as an acknowledgement of the many as- 

 sistances which he has aflForded me in the prosecution of my studies. 



Hab. — Georgia. Coll. of the Acad. Mus. Comp. Zoology. Dr. John L. 

 Le Conte, TJ. S. A. 



Note on the FABALEPIBOIDS and MICBOSTOMATOIDS, and on some Fecn- 

 liarities of Arctic Ichthyology. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



My attention having been attracted to the resemblance between the Alepido- 

 sauroids and Paralepidoids, shortly after my article on new species of the 

 former family, I embraced the opportunity, when in Philadelphia, to examine 

 the specimens of the two genera, Paralepis and Sudis, in the Bonaparte col- 

 lection, secured by the liberality of Dr. Wilson. The suspicions of the close 

 aflSnity of the two families were fully confirmed, and the same logic that would 

 prove the Alepidosauroids to be Siluroids, would cover the Paralepidoids. 

 Nearly equally erroneous would be the reference of those families to the Scom- 

 broid group, near which I formerly retained it with Lowe. The Paralepidoids 

 are, indeed, chiefly distinguished from the Alepidosauroids by the small dorsal 

 fin, and the more posterior ventrals, and wherever one is placed, the other 

 must be approximated next to it. 



The species of this family of Paralepidoids are divisible among three groups, 

 1864.] 




188 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



whose relations and differential characters are expressed in the following 

 table :— 



I. Head acutely conic ; snout pointed, and oral cleft nearly recti- 



linear. Teeth of lower jaw part enlarged, slender and pointed, 



part small and slender Paralkpis. 



a.. Dorsal fin decidedly in front of ventrals Arctozenus. 



/?. Dorsal fins opposed to ventrals Paralepis. 



II. Head blunt, and oral cleft curved upwards towards the end. 



Teeth of lower jaw partially erect, compressed, dagger-shaped, 



partially directed forwards Sudis. 



The distribution of these three groups is most remarkable. Paralepis and 

 Sudis are types as yet only known to be represented in the Meditteranean 

 Sea, while Arctozenus is represented by a single species, hitherto only found in 

 the waters of Greenland, and yet there is the closest affinity between Paralepis 

 and the Arctic type, so close, indeed, that only since the opportunity afforded 

 to examine the detailed figures of Kroyer, have we been able to fully appreci- 

 ate their distinctive characters. In order to assist less fortunate naturalists, 

 the following diagnosis of the newly named subgenus is given. 



ARCTOZENUS, Gill. 



Head elongated conical, attenuated towards the snout, with the snout quasi- 

 pointed, the jaws straight, the lower behind mostly covered by the upper, and 

 little exposed along the sides ; the teelh of the lower jaw, along the anterior 

 half, enlarged, but slender, recurved aj^d distant ; along the posterior half, 

 minute, acute and approximated ; the dorsal fin behind the middle, but con- 

 siderably in front of the ventrals. 



Type. — Paralepis borealis, Reinh. 



In the family of Microstomatoids,* which is related to the Paralepidoids, we 

 find the same peculiarity in geographical distribution ; the genus Microstomaf 

 being confined to the Mediterranean, while in the Greenland seas a closely re- 

 lated representative is found. 



Still another case of similar, or rather even more remarkable character, is 

 exhibited by the Stomiadoids. This family, distinguished by the com- 

 bination of an enormous mouth, and the opposition of the dorsal and 

 anal fins, is composed of two genera, Stomias and Malacosteus. The former 

 is represented by apparently closely related species, respectively inhabiting the 

 Mediterranean and Greenland Seas, while of Malacosteus, a single species dis- 

 covered south of the Newfoundland Bank has been described. As, on account 

 of the misconceptions of the author of the last named genus, it has been in- 

 volved in considerable mystery, a diagnosis of it, with reference to its ally, 

 may be useful ; but I desire expressly to add, that I do not hold myself respon- 

 sible for any of the facts, not having seen the original specimen, and that the 

 statement of the absence of scales, &c., requires to be confirmed, although it 

 is quite probable that none exist. The original describer has denied to the 

 genus branchiostegal rays ! 



MALACOSTEUS, Ayres. 



Proc. Boston Nat. Hist. Soc. Boston Journ. N. H. vi., 53 — 64. 



Body elongated claviform, constricted only at the caudal peduncle ; without 

 scalis ; with the head very convex, and protuberant in front of the eyes; the 

 opercular and tympanic regions very oblique, the opercular bones reduced, the 



• Although the adipose fin has been denied to Microstoma by such skilful observers as Muller 

 and Valenciennes, I think that I am able to distinguish it in specimens of the M. rotundatum, 

 preserved la the collection of the Academy. 



t Microstoma, Oav., R. A. 1817, ii., 184: Risso, 1829, ii. ; Cuv. ei Val. xviii., 358. Reinhardt ap- 

 pears to have first introduced the modification MicrosUmus. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 189 



oral cleft rectilinear ; teeth of the upper jaw minute ; of the lower, in front, 

 enlarged, but unequal, elongated, recurved and acute; behind minute ; at the 

 aymphisis directed forwards; small, acute and hooked, and in a double row on 

 the tongue ; palate smooth ; caudal very small, convex ; pectorals inserted 

 very low, linear, of few rays closely connected ; ventrals scarcely behind the 

 middle, with about six rays, the external (except the outermost) of which are 

 produced. Intestine with a flexure. 



Type. — Malacosteus niger, Ayres. 



"The principal points on which" Mr. Ayres would "particularly insist, as 

 characteristic of the species and the genus, are the remarkable small size of 

 the head, and, in contrast with this, the immense developement of the whole 

 facial and branchial apparatus, and all that pertains to the mouth and throat, 

 the singular and but partially explained organ on the cheek ; and, most of all, 

 the embryonic condition of the entire osseous system." In all respects — perhaps 

 even the last — the genus resembles Stomias. Sir John Richardson has suggested 

 that the want of ossification may be due to the preservation of the fish in 

 weak alcohol, but I am scarcely disposed to accept that hypothesis, and would 

 even believe that Stomias itself may be found to have an imperfectly ossified 

 skeleton, but not, perhaps, in so marked degree as Malacosteus. 



In the consideration of the faunistic anomalies here enumerated, we may be 

 aided in a solution of the causes by the consideration of nearly similar peculi- 

 arities in the Ichthyology of the Scandinavian, seas. There alone in the more 

 rertbern seas, species of the genera Beryx and Batrachus, closely allied to or 

 undistinguishable from Mediterranean or tropical species, are found, and there 

 also has been discovered rterycombus, a genus whose affinities are with the trop- 

 ical Pteraclides. No representatives are found at intermediate places along the 

 European coasts. Again, along the Rhode Island and neighboring coasts have 

 already been found Sarothrodus, Priacanthus, and Hyporthodus , the last closely 

 related to Serranus. All the places enumerated are near the borders of 

 the Gulf Stream. How far the distribution of these genera is thereby affected 

 it is not my intention to now discuss, my desire being simply to draw attention 

 to the facts. Further details regarding their baihymetrical, as well as geograph- 

 ical, distribution are desirable. 



Synopsis of the CTCLOFTEBOIDS of Eastern North America. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



The description of a new species of Liparis, from the Arctic seas, is here 

 submitted, and attention is called to some points in the synonymy of other 

 species of the genus which require elucidation. To complete a view of the 

 family to which they belong, I enumerate the Cyclopterinae. The family is re- 

 stricted, with Gunther, to those fishes whose suctorial disk is formed by the 

 union of the ventral fins, and which have numerous pyloric caeca, as it is not 

 evident that there is any close relation between such and the Gobicsocoids. 



CYCLOPTERINJE, Bon. 

 Ctclopteroids with a ventricose body and two dorsal fins, the first of which is 

 small, and composed of spines ; the second, as well as anal, short, and ob- 

 liquely opposed to each other; and with the caudal vertebrse in scarcely in- 

 creased number, (Vert. 12+16 pm.) 



Genua CYCLOPTERUS, L. 

 Lumpus, Cuv. 



CYCLOPTERIN.E With dorsal region elevated in front, larger plates disposed in 

 an unpaired dorsal row and two lateral and one abdominal on each side ; the eyes 

 small and anterior; the branchial apertures just above the pectoral fins; the 

 spinous dorsal almost concealed, and the ventral disk small. 



1864.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Ctcloptkbus lcmpus, L. 



Cyclopterus minutas, Pall. (Young). 

 Cyclopterus caeruleus, Mitch. (New York). 

 Lumpaa vulgaris, Storer. 

 Lutnpns anglorum, Dekay. 



Hab. — Greenland to New York. 



Is tbe American Cyclopterus identical with the European ? The latter has 

 not been examined by myself. 



Genus EUMICROTREMUS, Gill. 



CTCLOPTEEiNiB with the back gibbous ; the large plates less regularly 

 disposed, and obsolete on abdomen ; the eyes large and submedian ; the 

 branchial apertures elevated, and behind the ocular region ; the spinous dorsal 

 well developed, provided with 6 or 7 spines ; and the ventral disk large. 



EUMICEOTEEMUS SPIN06US, Gill. 



Cyclopterus spinosus, Fab. et al. 

 Hab. — Greenland. 



Subfamily LIPARIDIN^. 

 Liparinse Gill Cat. 

 Liparidina Gthr. Cat. iii. 



Cyclopteroids with an elongated body, and long, uninterrupted dorsal 

 and anal fins, the anterior rays of which, especially of the dorsal, are spinous, 

 and with caudal vertebrae in greatly increased number, (Vert. 10 — 12-f 25 — 50. 



GeDus LIPARIS, (Art.) Linn. 

 Cyclogaster Gron. 



Liparidina with a nearly or quite horizontal oral cleft ; longer upper jaw ; 

 pluriserial tricuspid teeth ; a well developed ventral disk ou the breast, below or 

 partially behind the posterior half of the head ; the anus little in advance of 

 the anterior third of the length, and the origin of the anal fin not far be- 

 hind it. 



Type. — Cyclopterus liparis L. 



This genus, even after the elimination of the L. tunicata of Kroyer, exhibits 

 considerable variation, especially in the relations of the dorsal and anal fins 

 to the caudal, these fins being, in some species, completely isolated, while in 

 others they are coalescent, and united in an almost anguilliform posterior fin. 

 In the latter, the nostrils also appear to be simple, while in the former the 

 posterior ones are tubular. These differences appear still further to be co- 

 incident with a disparity in the number of caudal vertebrse, and of the rays of 

 the vertical fins. Nevertheless, it is not deemed advisable to generically sepa- 

 rate the types so distinguished. 



But the differences between the Liparis tunicata of Kroyer, (Tidskrift, ser. 3, 

 B. i., 236), and the typical Liparides, appear to indicate a more decided de- 

 marcation, and the morpholological differences mentioned in the analytical 

 table are apparently coincident with difference in size ; it is, therefore, proba- 

 ble that the species is the type of a distinct genus, for which the name of 

 Actinochir would be appropriate. For the present, however, it is retained in 

 the genus Liparis. 



The increase of our knowledge of the Greenland Liparidinae, since the pub- 

 lication of the " Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast," is chiefly due 

 to Dr. Kroyer, who, appreciating the imperfection of our information, has 

 favored us with a monograph of those species. This has chiefly served as the 

 basis of the present article. 



I omit, for tbe present, references to tbe Liparidet of the British northern 

 travellers. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Synopsis. 



I. P. 23—35. Anterior nostrils simple. D, 12— 15-f A. 2. 24—33. 



* D. and A. connate with C. Posterior nostrils tubular or eubtubular. 

 D. 13+21.* A. 2+29. 0, 13. P. 34. Coloration in longi- 

 tudinal lines lineata. 



D. 12+30. A. 2+32. C. 11. P. 35. Color uniform reddish- 

 brown arctica. 



D. 13+27. A. 2+30. C. 9. P. 34. Color dirty yellow, 



with darker blotches. (Nostrils scarcely tubular) Fabricii. 



** D. and A. disconnected with C. Posterior nostrils simple. 



D. 13+16—17. A. 24— 25.f C. 18. P. 29—30 Montagui. 



II. P. 42 pm. Anterior nostrils tubular ; (posterior, simple). D. 21 



+24, A. 7+31. C. 10 pm. D. and A. connate with C. near base, major. 



LiPARis LINEATA, Kroyef. 



Liparis lineata, Kroyer, Naturbistorisk Tidskrift, ser. 2, b. ii., p. 284. 1847. 



" " Kroyer^ Voyage en Scandinavie, &c., tab. 13, fig. 2, a — g. 



" " LUiken, Videnskabelige Middelelser fra den Naturhistoriske 



" " Forening i Kjobenhavn, 1860, pp. 169—174. 



" '• Kroyer^ Naturbistorisk Tidskrift, ser. 3, B. i., pp. 244 — 251. 



« " Lutken, op. cit., 1861, pp. 243—265, pi. 7, fig. 1. 



" " Kroyer, op. cit., ser. 3, B. i., pp. 539 — 553. 



In the synonymy of Liparis lineata^ I have only included the references to 

 the Greenland fish, without, by any means, undertaking to decide between 

 Drs. Kroyer and Liitken, the former of whom considers the Greenland fish en- 

 tirely distinct from the Cyclopierus lineatus of Lepechin, while the latter consid- 

 ers it the same, and also identical with the Liparis vulgaris of Europe, but still 

 retains the name Liparis lineata, as Lepechin first gave the distinctive appella- 

 tion. As, therefore, the nomenclature is not affected, Dr. Kroyer retaining the 

 name Liparis lineata for the Greenland fish, I am glad to be able to leave the 

 controversy in statu gtib. 



The discrepancies between the radial fjrmula, especially of the caudal fin, 

 of LAparis valgaris of authors and Liparis lineata deserves attention. Thus 

 Giinther assigns to his Liparis vulgaris D. 35 — 36, A. 27 — 28, C. 10 ; Lepecbin, 

 to his Cyclopterus lineatus, D. 36, P. 26, A. 28, C. 13? ; Kroyer, to his Liparis 

 lineatus, D. 13+21, A. 2 + 29, C. 13, P. 34; and Liitken, to his, D. 36, A. 30, 

 C. 14 ? P. 33, and with the results of the latter two my own observations 

 agree. 



Of thirteen English specimens of the so-called Liparis vulgaris of Yarrell, eleven 

 exhibited little distinct coloration on the body, but the dorsal and anal fins were 

 densely dotted, so as to give to those fins, especially when folded, a blackish- 

 blue hue. The pectorals of some, especially towards the superior margin, were 

 also clouded. In one specimen, the head and body were distinctly marmorated, 

 and delineations like those represented on the head, body and pectorals of 

 lAparis lineatus by Kroyer, and //. lineata by Liitken, were observed, but the 

 dorsal and anal were simply dotted as in the ordinary \ariety, and the delinea- 

 tions themselves were dark lilac on a yellowish ground. The last one, conse- 

 quently, represented the L. lineatus of Lepechin and Lutken, and the others 

 the L. barbatus of Ekstrom and Liitken. 



Liparis arctica, Gill. 



The greatest height exceeds a third of the total length, while the greatest 

 width is rather less than a seventh ; the height at the end of the caudal pe- 



* The formul* D. 19+21 appears to have been giyen through inadvertence, in the TidBkrift, 

 Bcr. 3, i., 24 1. 



t A. 2. 2 J. Krwjtr, Nat. Tid. ser. 3, i., 548; A. 4. 20—2. Kroyer, ib i, 273. 



1864.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



c1 uncle equals about a fourth of the length of the caudal fin. The head, from 

 the snout to the margin of the auriform projection, almost or quite equals a 

 fourth of the length, while its breadth enters nearly 6^ times in the same, and 

 is little greater than the height ; the forehead is depressed, and the snout mod- 

 erately high and decurved. The eyes are just within the anterior half of the 

 head ; the width of the forehead between them equals a third of the head's 

 length. The anterior nostrils are simple ; the posterior tubular. The dorsal 

 and anal are connate with the caudal ; the former united for about a fourth of 

 the length of the caudal, the latter two-fifihs. The caudal is convex behind, 

 and forms a seventh of the length. The pectoral enters about 5^ times in the 

 length, and the ventral disk ten times. 



D. XIl. 30. A. II. 32. C. 11. P. 27+8. 



The color is uniform reddish-brown or dark chesniit, without spots or bands. 



This species, in general form as well as color, resembles the L. Montagui, but 

 is in other respects widely different. Its relations to the other Greenland 

 species is exhibited in the analytical synopsis ; it is well distinguished by its 

 rusty color. 



Specimens were obtained by the Arctic navigator. Dr. Hayes, at Port Foulke, 

 Greenland, and are preserved in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, and the Smithsonian Institution. In the Museum of the latter, there is 

 only a single specimen. 



LiPARis Fabricii. 



Doubtful Synonymy. 



Cyclopterus liparis, altera minor, Abopokitsok, Fab., Fauna Groenlandica, p. 135, 



1780. 

 Cyclopterus liparis, minor Walbaum in Artedi, Genera. Piscium, p. 489, 1792. 

 Cyclopterus liparis, a Bonnaterre, Tableau Encyclopedique et Melthodique. — 



Ichlhyologie, p. 28, 1788. 

 Liparis tunicata, pp. Reinhardt, Oversigt orer det kongelige Danske Viden- 



skabernes Selskabs Forbandlinger vi., p. cxi., {tr. Archiv fiir Naturges- 



chichte, Jarhg. iii.,B. i., p. 267, 1836). 

 Vix Liparis tunicatus Reinhardt, op. cit., p. 78. (Isis Ton Oken, 1844, 819), 



1842. 



Determined Synonymy. 



Liparis Fabricii Kroyer, Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, ser. 2, B. ii., p. 274, 1847. 

 Liparis Fabricii, pp. Reinhardt, in Naturhistoriske Bidrag til en Beskrivelse of 



Gronland, 1857. 

 Liparis Fabricii, pp. Gill, Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast, p. 47. 

 Liparis tunicatus, (Fabricii, Kr.) Lillken Videnskabelige Meddelelser fra den 



Naturhistoriske Forening i Kjobenhavn, 1860, p. 173. 

 Liparis Fabricii Kroyer, Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, ser. 3, B. i., p. 235, 1862. 

 Laparis Fabricii GUnther, Catalogue of the Fishes, &c., iii., 161, 1861. 



Fabricius, in the Fauna Groenlandica, refers to the Cyclopterus liparis of 

 Linnaeus, two forms of Liparis found by him in Greenland. To the first vari- 

 ety — " 1) Altera minor, Abapokitsok" — were attributed 39 dorsal, 33 anal, 30 

 pectoral, and 14 caudal rays; 4 tubular nostrils; a union of the dorsal and 

 anal fins uih the caudal, which latter is nearly cuneate, and a fuscous color ; 

 the jaws externally, the inferior ocular region and the opercula have rather 

 indistinct white dots, and tlie tips of the upper pectoral rays beins; likewise 

 white. This combination does not entirely agree with any of the Greenland 

 species, as described by Kroyer, but most approximates to the L. Fabricii; from 

 tliat species the number of caudal rays, (14) if correctly stated, would sepa- 

 rate it, and the color is also, perhaps, inconsistent. I am fain, then, to leave 

 the identity of this species in doubt, trusting that future material may enable 

 us to arrive at a certain decision. 



, [Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 193 



In 1835 or 1836, Reinhardt offered to the Danish Academy a Contribution 

 on new Greenland Fishes, closing this contribution with the remark that 

 " there also exists in the Greenland seas the Cyclopterus liparis, Fab., which is 

 named Liparis tunicata, on account of the peculiar loose adherence of the skin, 

 and which, in its characters, has much similarity with the European species 

 illustrated by Yarrell, in his British Fishes ; but, as the Museum had in its pos- 

 session only one badly preserved specimen, no certain identification could be 

 made."* 



The name L. iiinicata is thus solely based on the C. liparis of Fabricius, and 

 as the first variety is the one fully described by that author, and consequently 

 the type of his species, and, as Reinhardt's remarks on the similarity of the 

 species to the European are only correct for that variety, the name L. 

 lunicata must be connected with it. 



But, in a subsequent communication on " Liparis (/lutinosus," Reinhardt's am- 

 biguous language might lead one to suppose that he connected the name L. 

 tunicatus with only the large variety of Cyclopterus liparis of Fabricius, he re- 

 marking that " Fabricius considered that the large Greenland species, the 

 Liparis tunicatus (sic.) of the Museum, might well be the Stellerian L. gluti- 

 nosus." However this may be, the name proposed by Reinhardt must be ac- 

 cepted with its first limitation, and share with the variety of Fabricius the 

 doubts concerning its proper application. 



The name Liparis Fabricii was subsequently proposed by Kroyer for the spe- 

 cies under consideration, and being the first known to be applicable to it, is 

 provisionally accepted. 



The radial formula given by Guather differs considerably from that assigned 

 by Kroyer, (B. 5, D. 42, A. 33 — 35, C. 12, Gthr.) and approximates to that of Fab- 

 ricius, especially in the number of caudal rays. 



Liparis Montagui, Don. 



Liparis Montagui Kroyer, Voyage en Scandinavie, &c., tab. 13, p. 1, a — f, 

 Liparis Montagui Kroyer, Naturhistorisk Tidakrift, ser. 3, B. i., p. 243. 



Only the references to the Greenland form have been given. It may be re- 

 marked that while Kroyer, both in his Denmark's Fiske, (ii., 519) and the 

 Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, has assigned 18 caudal rays to tbis species, Yarrell, 

 Nilsson and Giinther have only attributed to it 13 or 14. There are also some 

 Blight discrepancies between the proportions assigned to the species by differ- 

 ent authors. 



Liparis major. Gill. 



Cyclopterus liparis, 2, Altera major, Amersulak-Fabrieius, Fauna Groenlandica, 



p. 136, 1780. 

 Cyclopterus liparis, major, Walba^im, Artedi Genera Piscium, p. 489, 1792. 

 Cyclopterus liparis, B. Bonnaterre, Tableau Encyclopedique et Methodique 



Ichthyologie, p. 28, 1788. 

 Liparis tunicatus, pp. Reinhardt, versigt over det Kongelige DanskeVidenskaber- 



nes Selskabs Forhundliugar, 1835 — 6, p. vi., p. cxi. 

 Liparis tunicata, Kroyer, Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, ser. 3, B. i., p. 236, 1862. 



This species appears to be the second variety of Fabricius' Cyclopterus 

 liparis, to which were attributed a much larger size, (long. 10 unc. et lat. 4 

 unc.) and the formula D. 44, P. 40, V. 8, A. 35, C. li. Subsequently, it was 

 fully described by Kroyer, under the name Liparis tunicata, oiiginally based, by 



* " Endelig sluttedes dette Bidrag med den Bemserkning, at der gives i dot griinlandske Hny 

 foruden Fabricii Ci/clopterus liparis, Bom man kuade kalde Liparis tunicata forniodelst Iludenn 

 Bserdelcs lose Vedhseagen, endnu en anden Art, der i sin Tegniug har megen Lighed med den af 

 yarrell i bans britisfi fishes afteguede europaeiske Art, men da Mueeet kun er i Besildelse »f et 

 nncHte ikke fuldstaendigt £zamplar kan en sikker Bestemmelee endnu ikke flnde Sted.'' 



1864.] 13 




194 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Beinhardt, on the Cyclopterus liparis of Fabricius as a whole. Fnbricius having 

 only fully described his first variety, it appears advisable for that reason, ag 

 well as on account of its precedence, to identify the name with that one. The 

 name given to the present species as a variety, by Walbaum, may, in that case, 

 be accepted as its specific appellation. 



Genus OAREPROOTUS, Kroyer. 



LiPARiDiN^ with the oral cleft oblique, the lower jaw advanced ; teeth sim- 

 ple and hooked ; a rudimentary suctorial disk situated far forwards, under the 

 anterior part of the eye, and little distant from it the anus, far behind which 

 is the anal fin. 



Type. — Liparis Reinhardi Kr.=zh. gelatinosus R. 



This very distinct genus is especially distinguished from Liparis by the char- 

 acters mentioned in the generic diagnosis. We owe its establishment to Dr. 

 Kroyer, its species having been previously confounded with Liparis. There 

 are probably two species, one found in Kamtschatka, and the other, long con- 

 founded with it, a native of the Greenland waters. 



Carepkoctus Reinhardi, Kr. 



Liparis gelatinosus, Reinhardi, Oversigt over det Kongelige Danske Videnskaber- 

 nes Selskabs Forhandlingar, 1844 — 5, pi. x., p. Ixxvii., tr. Isis von. Oken, 

 1844, p. 819. 



Liparis gelatinosus, Gill, Cat. p. 47. 



Liparis Reinhardi, Kroyer, Naturhistorisk Tidskrift, ser. 3, Bd I., p. 252. 



Careproctus Reinhardi, Kroyer, op. cit. i., p. 257. 



Synopsis of the FLETJSOKECTGIDS of California and Korth-westem 

 America. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In conformity with a promise some time since made,* I now offer a Synopsis 

 of the Pleuronectoids of California, and add descriptions of a new ppecies, 

 which is at the same time the type of a distinct genus, contained in a collection 

 made by Dr. Cooper, of the Geological Survey of California, and kindly sub- 

 mitted to me for examination. 



One of the genera admitted — Uropsetta — is known to me only through the de- 

 scription and outline figure of its type published by Dr. Ayres. That species was 

 originally described as Hippoglossus californicus, hut as it evidently did not be- 

 long to .Hippoglossus, it was withdrawn by me from that genus, and taken as 

 the type of a peculiar one. It has since been referred to the genus Pseudo- 

 rhombus by Giinther, but the Californian naturalist, in approximating it to Hip- 

 poglossus, appea-s to have interpreted nature more truly than the English one. 

 Uropsetta, indeed, is apparently more closely related to Reinhardtius than to 

 any other. 



Four other species are only known through descriptions that are not suflB- 

 cient to positively decide their true affinities. One is the Platessa bilineata 

 of Ayres ;f of this the "mouth, of moderate dimensions, the tip of the upper 

 maxillary scarcely reaching the plane of the pupil of the lower eye ; " the •' sin- 

 gle, even row of strong, blunt, conical teeth;" the dextral eyes; the "scales 

 larger and more conspicuous than in any other fish of this tribe yet found on 

 our coast ; " and the recurrent lateral line appears to indicate that it is allied 

 to Lepidopsetta ; but the statement that " the scales of the anterior portion of the 

 body are nearly smooth ; further back they become gradually more and more 



• Proc. Ac. N. S., Phlla., 1862. 

 t Ayres, Proc. Cal. Ac. i, 4o. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 195 



eiliate, though none of them are so rough as in most Flatfishes. Those of the 

 head cover the entire opercular region and cheeks, and in part also the inner- 

 ocular ridge ; those of the cheeks are strongly ciliate," forbid us to associate it 

 in the same genus as L. umbrosa. If, however, tuberculated scales should be 

 substituted for ciliated ones, nothing else in the description would militate 

 against such a reference. Dr. Ayres, indeed, considers this species to be "al- 

 lied to P. dentata, Mitch.," but as his ideas of afiSnity are extremely crude and 

 unreliable, nothing may be learned from them. 



The second has been named by Dr. GUnther Parophrys Ayresii. The " broad 

 band of villiform teeth on the blind side, and with a few on the colored one," 

 approximates it to the same group as Hypsopsetta and Pleuronichthys. The 

 mere statement that " the dorsal fin commences somewhat before the middle 

 of the eye," and the neglect to describe the lips furnish us negative evidence 

 of some weight that it is not congeneric with Pleuronichthys coenosus * in which 

 the dorsal is decurrent in front on the blind side, and the lips are plicated as in 

 Labroids, — characters which would not be overlooked by an observant natural- 

 ist. As in Hypsopsetta, the normal characters of those parts are presented, and 

 as Parophrys Ayresii otherwise exhibits a concordance with that genus, it may 

 be provisionally referred to it. 



The third species — native of the seas between Kamtschatkaand America — has 

 been named by Pallas Pleuror.ectes quadrituberctdalus, and has recently been re- 

 ferred by Dr. Giinther to the genus Parophrys. The description of Pallas is 

 perhaps insufficient to enable us to form a certain conclusion regarding its affi- 

 nities, but the characters given — smooth body with rudimentary scales, lateral 

 line very little decurrent anteriorly, and four tubercles on the head continu- 

 ous with the lateral line — are characters found in Pleuronectes rather than in 

 Parophrys. The cause of its reference by Giinther to the latter genus is unknown, 

 but whatever it may be, he has evidently entirely misunderstood that genus. 

 Until we are better acquainted with the Pallasian species, it may be advisable 

 to retain it in Pleuronectes, since no advantage would be gained by exchanging 

 one doubt for another far greater. 



A fourth species — Pleuronectes cicatrieosus Pallas — is also apparently a true 

 Pleuronectes. 

 I. Mouth small, the supramaxillary ending before under front 



of eye ...., PleuronectinjK. 



A. Teeth well developed, straight, blunt, and producing an 

 incisorial edge, chiefly confined to the blind side: an- 

 terior nostril on eye side tubular ; on blind with a pos- 

 terior linguiform flap : posterior patulous, or nearly so. 

 a. Eyes dextral. 



/?. Lateral line with no recurrent or dorsal branch Pleuronectes. 



/?/?. Lateral line with recurrent or dorsal branch. 



». Cheeks with cycloid, imbricated scales Parophrys. 



tin. Checks with stellated or tuberculated scales Lepidopsetta. 



it-t. Eyes sinistral : scales scattered, stellated, or tuber- 

 culated, only unarmed cycloid behind Platichthys. 



AA. Teeth slender, acute, pluriserial. Anterior nostril on 

 eye as well as blind side with flap behind ; posterior 

 patulous. Lateral line recurrent. 

 «. Lips simple; dorsal continuous in front on dorsal 



ridge Hypsopsetta. 



««t. Lips plicated; dorsal in front decurved on blind side P'leuronichthys. 



* Dr. Giinther has referred Pleuronichthys ccenoms, Grd., to Pleuronectes, and PI. guttulatus to . 

 Parophrys. His reasons for thus widely separating them have not been givfn, and are not obvi- 

 OU8 from a simple acquaintance witli tlie literature or the species themselTes. His chaiacters of, 

 Parophrys are applicable to both species, but not to those of Parophrys. 



1864.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



II. Mouth large and continued more or less under the eye. 



Ventrals inserted laterally HippoaLOSSlNJE 



A. Caudal entire, or produced behind. 



St. Lateral line straight Psettichthys, 



act. Lateral line arched in front Paralichthys. 



AA. Caudal fin emarginated behind. 



Dorsal and anal fins regularly arched Uropsetta. 



Dorsal and anal elevated towards middle Hippoglossm. 



III. Mouth large. Ventral of dark side inserted on the ridge 



of abdomen Rhombin*. 



A. Interorbital area sharp, Orthopsetta. 



0. Interorbital ridge prominent, channelled Metoponops. 



Subfamily FLEURONECTIN^E Bon. 



PLEURONECTES (L.) Blkr. 



Plbcronectbs Franklinii Gthr. 



rieuronectes (Rhombus) glacialis Rich, F. B. 258. (not Pallas.) 

 Pleuronectes glacialis DeKay, N. Y. 302. 

 Platessa glacialis Rich, Herald. 

 I'leuroneces Franklinii Gthr. 

 jlab. — North-western America. 



PtEnRONECTES QUADRITDBKHCULATUS PallaS. 



rieuronectes quadrituberculata Pallas, Zool. Rop. As. iii. 423. 

 Parophrys quadrituberculata Gthr., iv. 456. 

 /7aj.— Sea between Kamtschatka and America. 



Pleuronectks CICATRIC08CS Pallas. 



Pleuronectcs cicatricosus Pallas, Ross. As. iii. 424. 



Ilab. " Specimina e mari inter Camtschatcam et Americam Iccta mihi retn- 

 lit D. D. irerA."— Pall. 



PAROPHRYS Grd. 

 Parophrys vbtula Grd. 



Parophrys vetulus Grd. 

 Pleuronectes digrammuS Glhr., iv. 445. 

 Parophrys vetula Gthr., iv. 455. 

 Hab. — California. 



Parophrys Hubbakdii Gill. 



Parophrys Hubbardii Gill, Pa., 1862, 281. 

 ^a6.— San Francisco. 



LEPIDOPSETTA Gill. 



Lepidopsetta umbroba Gill. 



I'l^tichthys umbrosus Grd , Pa., viii., 1.36, 1856. 

 Lepidopsetta umbrosa Gill, Pa-. 1862, 326. 

 Pleuronectes umbrosus Gthr.^'vi. 454. 



fjab. — California. 



Allied and perhaps congeneric is the following species: 



Platessa bilin^ata Ayres, Cal. i. 40. 

 Pleuronectes bilineatus Gthr., iv. 444. 

 jjab. — San Francisco. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 197 



PLATICHTHYS Girard. 

 Platichthys stellatus Girard. 



rieuronectes stellatus Pallas, Nova Acta, i. 347. 

 Platessa (stelJata) Cuv., R. A. • 



Pleuroaectes (Platessa) stellatus Rich. 

 Platichthys rugosus Grd. 

 " (stellatus) Grd. 

 Hab. — Western coast generally. 



HYPSOPSETTA Gill, 1862. 



Hysopsetta gcttolata Gill. 



Pleuronichthys guttulatus Grd., Pa., viii. 137. 

 Pleuronectes guttulatus Othr., iv. 445. 

 Hypsopsetta guttulata Oill, Pa., 1862, 330. 

 Hab. — Oregon and California. 



Parophrys Ayresii Gthr., iv. 456. 



Hab. — California. 



"The height of the body is rather more than one- half of the total length " (in 

 H. guttulata, 1 : 2^ — 1: 2J) ; "the length of the head rather more than one-fifth," 

 {H. gutt. \ in young — 1: 4^ in old) ; " the distance between the dorsal and cau- 

 dal is about one-third of the depth of the fore portion of the tail " (more) ; " the 

 length of the pectoral egwa^sthe distance of the lower eye from the end of the 

 operculum " (less). 



Is it distinct from H. guttulatal The color of the latter in the adult i? 

 " uniform brownish lead colored." 



PLEURONICHTHYS Grd. 



Plkukonichthys C(enosds Grd. 



Pleuronichthys ccenosus Grd., Pa., vi. 139. 

 Parophrys ccenosus Grd., iv. 456. 

 Hab. — California. 



Subfamily EIPFOGLOSSIJVyE Gill. 

 PSETTICHTHYS Grd. 



PSEXriCHTHYS MKLAN0STICTU3 Grd. 



PARALICHTHYS* Grd. 



PaRALICHTHYS MACOL03D3* Grd. 



Pleuronectes maculosus Grd., Pa., vii. 155. 

 Paralichthys maculosus Grd., Exp., &c., x. 147. 

 Hab. — California. 



Grd., Pa., vii, 140. 

 Hab. — California. 



* Paralichthys would appear to be normally sinistral from two specimens collected by the Cali- 

 forniiin Geological Survey. One of these cannot be distinguished from P. maculosus, the propor- 

 tions, number and arrangement of the blue dots being similar; the spots are noraially — six dorsal, 

 the first uuder eighth dorsal ray; the second above the axil of pectoral; the Mxth under sixth 

 ray from last, and the intervening equidistant, but the fourth lower; four anal cjrrespond to the 

 last four dorsal one.s. In the sinistral specimen, there is also one behind the eye. In the second 

 apecimen in the collections, these spots are obsolete. Paralichthys is distinguished from Ch>enoi>- 

 settii by its larger ctenoid scales, and small supernumerary linear cycloid ones. 



1864.] 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



UROPSETTA Gill. 



UrOPSETTA. CALIFORNICA Gill. 



Hippoglossus californicus Ayres, Cal. ii. 29, f. 10. 

 Pseudorhombus californicus Gthr., iv. 426; 

 Uropsetta californica Gill, Pa., 1862, 330. 

 Hab. — California. 



HIPPOGLOSSUS Cuv., Gill. 



Hippoglossus . 



Pleuronectes hippoglossus Pallas, Roa. As. iii. 421. 

 Hippoglossus vulgaris Ayres, Cal., i. 40; ii. 30. 

 Hab. — California northwards. 



Subfamily REOMBINM (Bon.) Gill. 

 ORTHOPSETTA Gill. 

 Orthopsktta soedida Gill. 

 Psettichthys sordidus Ord., Pa., vii. 142. 

 Oitharichtbys sordidus Othr. iv. 421. 

 Orthopsetta sordida Qill^ Pa., 1862, 330. 

 Hab. — California. 



METOPONOPS Gill. 

 Metoponops coopbri Gill. 

 Metoponops Cooperi Gill, infra. 

 Hab. — California. 



Description of a new Generic type of PLEXJBONECrOIDS in the Collection of 

 the Geological Survey of California. 



Genus METOPONOPS Gill. 



Body rather elongated rhomboid, with the dorso-nasal outline nearly recti- 

 linear, and with the caudal peduncle moderate, somewhat constricted. 



Scales moderate, cycloid, oblong, or oval, imbricated, covered also with 

 smaller supernumerary scales. Lateral line perfectly straight, but slightly 

 decurrent anteriorly, continuous in simple tubes on each scale. 



Head sculy, moderate, conic, with the oblique profile rectilinear; the snout 

 somewhat elevated and subtruncated, and the iuterorbital ridge prominent 

 sideways. Eyes sinistral, oval, rather large, situated almost entirely in the 

 anterior half of the head, the lower lateral ; the upper directed obliquely up- 

 wards : the interorbital area narrow, scaly, channelled between the eyes, and 

 borderel by two ridges which converge above behind. liostrils narrow, be- 

 tween snout and eyes and parallel with the former ; the anterior with a long 

 flap or bridle in front; the posterior simple. Opercula normal. 



Moulh large and very oblique ; the supramaxillary ceasing under the pupil 

 of the eye, extended obliquely downwards behind, and with a semicircular 

 arch at its upper angle. Lower jaw truncated in front, with a tubercle be- 

 low. • lAps very thin and simple. Tongue elongated, narrow and free. 



Teeth equally developed on both sides, uniserial, approximated, subequal, 

 rather small, curved conic and acute. Palate unarmed. 



BranchiostegaL rays seven. Branchial membrane deepl}' emarginated below. 



Dorsal fin with its origin considerably behind the right posterior nostril, above 

 or rather behind the anterior margin of the orbit, regularly arched, with its 

 rays simple. Anal with its origin under or behind the inferior axil of the pec- 

 toral, and similar to the dorsal. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Caudal fin couvex behind. 



Pectoral fins pointed. 



Ventral fins subjugular, inserted obliquely, with its rays approximated, and 

 its innermost attached to the breast by a membrane. 



The lower pharyngeal bones are entii-ely separated, compressed and laminar, 

 ■with the body emarginated below and the posterior processes directed up- 

 wards, attenuated towards their ends; with the teeth pauciserial ; of the inner 

 row slender, elongated and acute, curved outwards in front and erect behind; 

 of the outer much smaller, but similar in form. Upper pharyngeal* three on 

 each side laminar, each with a row of large, slender, curved teeth. 



The branchial arches have compressed, pointed rakers, progressively de- 

 creasing in length from the first to the fourth arch, on which last they are 

 short and triangular; each armed with small, slender teeth on their internal 

 margins. 



Metoponops is readily distinguishable by the characters above given, espe- 

 cially the prominence of the interorbital ridge and the consequent oblique po- 

 sition on the forehead of the upper eye, whose line of vision is upwards ; the 

 scaly channel of the ridge itself; straight lateral line ; dentition, and the form 

 of the lower pharyngeal bones, especially the paraboloid emargination below 

 in front. It is apparently as closely related to its cohabitant of California, 

 Orlhopsetta^ as any other, but that genus is at once distinguished by its com- 

 pressed head and little prominent, narrow interorbital ridge. 

 Metoponops Cooperi Gill. 



The height of the body is contained about three times in the total length ; 

 the head about four times, and the caudal six times and a half. The longitu- 

 dinal diameter of either orbit equals about a third of the head's length. The 

 snout is rhomboid, decurved in front, and its length from the lower orbit to 

 the symphisis equals about a fifth of the head's length. The supramaxillary 

 ends under the front of the pupil, and from the symphisis to its end enters 

 twice in the distance between the chin and preopercular margin. The greatest 

 height of the dorsal equals the length of the upper jaw, as well as does that 

 of the anal. The pectoral fin equals about a sixth of the total length. 



D. 89. A. n. P. 13. 



The color is uniform brownish. 



A single adult specimen of this species is in the collection formed by the 

 Californian Geological Survey, of which Prof. Whitney is the superintendent, 

 and was obtained by Dr. Cooper, the naturalist of the Snrvey, at Santa Bar- 

 bara, in May, 1863. This specimen is in poor condition, having been appa- 

 rently obtained only after exposure for some time to the sun ; the fins have 

 been dried, and the pectorals and ventrals are more or less broken, especially 

 the latter, while the abdomen is much injured. I am consequently compelled 

 to omit some desirable details. The species itself is a very interesting one, 

 and I give myself the pleasure of dedicating it to ray friend, Dr. Cooper. 



On the Affinities of several doubtful BRITISH FISHES. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



Among the few still uncertain species of British flashes, none are involved 

 in greater obscurity than those presented under the name of Ophidium imberbe 

 by Pennant and Montague, and those referred by Hoy to the Linnsean 7'richi- 

 urus Upturns. A detailed investigation-into the literature and history of the 

 former has enabled me to demonstrate its relations, and the discovery of a 

 recent type in the Caribbean Sea permits me to at least suggest the affini- 

 ties of the latter,* concerning which I had long been perplexed. These con- 



* See Proceed. Acad. ^at. Sci. Phila., 1863, p. 228. 



1864.] 




TROCEEDINaS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tributions to British Ichthyology are, with this introduction, especially sub- 

 mitted to the naturalists of Britain, to whom it remains to verify or disprove 

 the validity of the conclusions arrived at. I shall only remark that the fail- 

 ure, after so long a period, to find any species more conformable to the notice 

 of Ophidium imberbe than the one herewith identified with it, is itself most 

 suggestive. 



1. Ophidium imbeebe L., Montag. 



For half a century a nominal species of fish has been retained in the cata- 

 logues of the British fishes under the name of ^^ Ophidium imberbe L.," and in 

 later times under that of " Gymnelis imberbis." As no critical investigation 

 into the history of this species has yet been given, it is thought that such 

 will not now be superfluous, since thereby a name symbolic of no distinct 

 organism may be eliminated from the systematic and faunistic works, and 

 the false ideas connected in recent times by means of it with the geographi- 

 cal distribution of two remarkable genera be dissolved. 



Commencing with the general introduction of the binomial nomenclature, 

 Linnaeus, in the tenth edition of the Systema Naturae,* defined anew the 

 genus OphidioUjf then placed by him at the end of the Jugulares, and assigned 

 to it five branchiostegal rays, and ventral fins leith two rays, the external of 

 which is spinous. In the genus thus defined, he respectively placed, 1. 0. bar- 

 batum, 2. 0. imberbe. 3. 0. macrophthalmum. The first has articulated bifid ven- 

 tral fins modified as barbels, J situated below the chin, and is the type of a 

 family closely related to the Brotuloids| and Gadoids. The third is evidently 

 the species afterwards described as Cepola rubescens by Linnaeus, || as was sub- 

 sequently shown by Linnaeus^ and Cuvier.** Thus, neither of these species 

 answered to the terms of the diagnosis. The Ophidium imberbe was noticed 

 in the words " 0. maxillis imberbibus, cauda obtusiuscula, D. 79. P. 11. V. 

 2. A. 41. C. 18. Hab. in Europa." This diagnosis, in connection with the 

 notice of the ventrals in the generic diagnosis, enables us at once to identify 

 the species with the common gunnell of Europe, no other having even ap- 

 proximately such a radial formula. But references are made to the 0. cirris 

 carens of Artediff and the Fauna Suecica.'lX Artedi based his species in the 

 " Synonymia" on, 1st, the Ophidion flavum vel Ophidian imberbe of Rondelet^§ 

 and the notices of the same derived from Rondelet by Willoughby|||| and 

 Kay; and, 2d, the Ophidion flavum ^imberbe of Schonevelde^^ and Ophidion of 



* Sysh Nat., ed. 10, 1259. 



f " Caput nudiusculum. 



" Memhr. branch, patula radiis V. 



" Corpus ensiforme. Pinna dorsalis aniqne unita caadse. Pinnse ventrales radiia duobua ; ex- 

 teriore spinoso." — Linn., Syst. Nat., ed. 10, i. 259. 



J I have already shown that the so-called barbels of Ophidion harhatum are true ventral find on 

 account of their articulation and attachment, and not homologues with the barbels of the Mul- 

 loids and Polymyxioids. 



I The Brntuloids form a very natural family, but its distinctive characters have hitherto been 

 only hinted at. Among the most trenchant are the closure of the cranial cavity in front and the 

 consequent development of a more or less complete bony septum; the compression downwards of 

 the sides of the crHnium and angularity below, and the great development of the exoctipitals, 

 which unite and extend obliquely upwards behind the supraoccipital ; the forms of the supraniax- 

 illars alread; described by me, and the development of a genital papilla in the males. 



j The Cepola rubescens must be called CtpdLa macrophthalmus. The diagnosis and radial for- 

 mula "0. maxillis imberbibus, pi'nwa catirfas acumtwnta. — D, 69. P. 15. V. 6. A. 62. C. 12. Hab. 

 in M. Med.," enables one at once to identify the species. 



f Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. 12. ed. Gmel., 1187. 



** Cuvier et Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. des Poissons, xi. 389. 



tt Artedi, Genera, 25. Syn. 42. 



JJLinnsens, I'aun. Sufc, 289. 



f^ Kondeletius, lib. xiv. cap. 2, p. 398. 



IJJ Viilloughby, p. 113. Ray, Syn., p. 39. 



tlT Schonevelde. Icbthyologia, Ac.,— quae in florentiBslmis ducatibtis Slesvici A Holsatlse, Ac, 1524, 

 p. 53. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Schelhammer.* The first is a fish of the Mediterranean, closely resembling 

 the Ophidium barbatum, according to Rondelet, but distinguished by its want 

 of barbels and its yellow color ; it has been identified by Cuvierf with his 

 " Donzelle imberbe" — the Fieraafer acus Kaup. The second was evidently based 

 on the Mursenoides gunnellus of authors, as BroussonetJ and Cuvier| have 

 shown. The Ophidian cirris carens of the " Synonymia" is therefore a com- 

 pound ; that of the " Genera" is only based on the Ophidian flavum ^ imberbe 

 Auctorum," (Schonevelde,) and said to inhabit the Baltic Sea; it is thus 

 primarily the Mursenoides gunnellus. Artedi was apparently not acquainted 

 through autopsy with any of his Ophidia. 



The Ophidion of the Fauna Suecica, placed among the Jugulares, is also, 

 without doubt, the Mursenoides gunnellus^ of which Linnaeus had not then men- 

 tioned the ventral fins. The formula of the fins in the tenth edition of the 

 Systema is similar, but with the addition of the rays of the ventrals. 



Subsequently, Gronovius, in the Zoophylacium,|| connected this name with 

 a fish which appears to be nothing more than an Ophidion barbatum, of which 

 the barbels had been destroyed, as Cuvier][ suggests, or concealed within the 

 limbs of the lower jaw and overlooked, as may readily be the case. We 

 might have hoped to have had this question solved by Dr. Giinther, as, ac- 

 cording to Dr. Gray,** the Gronovian fish was in the collection purchased for 

 the British Museum ; Dr. GUnther has, however, not referred to the specimen 

 in his Catalogue. 



Pennantff next aflBxed the same name to a fish found near Weymouth, and 

 communicated to him by the Duchess of Portland, giving a figure of it in 

 the fourth volume of his British Zoology, but no description. This fish is 

 apparently a common eel, as Broussonet|J and Cuvier|^ have suggested ; pro- 

 bably Pennant and his friends were deceived by some anomalous appearance 

 of the fish itself, as it appears to have been shorter than usual. There is, at 

 least, nothing but the eel found in European or, indeed, any other waters, 

 which at all resembles the fish figured by Pennant.|||| 



In a subsequent edition of the British Zoology, this figure was replaced by 

 one in the meanwhile published by Montague under the name of Ophidium 

 imberbe. 



Such is the essential history of the applications of the name of Ophidium 

 imberbe down to the year lITl. The age of compilers, commencing with 

 Haiiy and culminating in Lac^pfede, Bloch, Schneider and Shaw, soon after 

 commenced. These authors variously combined the notices of their prede- 

 cessors, and finally succeeded in involving a species, concerning which there 

 was no reasonable room for doubt, in such mystery that almost all memory 

 of the original type was eventually lost. 



Haiiy, in 1788, in the Encyclopedic Methodique,irir adopted in his descrip- 



♦ Schelhammer, De Anatome Xiphiae piscis uti Lumpi et Ophidii, p. 23. 



t Cuvier, M6m. du Museum, i. 1815, pp. 312, 313. 



t Broussonet, Phil. Trans., London, Ixxi 1781, p. 438. 



\ Olivier, op. cit., i. pp. 315, 310. 



II Gronovius, Zoophylacium, 1763, No. 401. 



^ Cuvier, Mem. du Museum, i. 1815, p. 316. 



•♦Catalogue of Fish Collected and Described by Lawrence Theodore QronoTius, now in the Britiah 

 Museum, London, 1854, (Ophidion congrus, B. M., p. 164.) 



tt Penuant, British Zool., iv. 1, App , 398, iv. pi. 93. 



tt Broussonet, Phil. Trans., Ixxi. 1781, p. 439, note. 



MCuvier, Mem. du Mus., 1. 1815, p. 316. 



Ill Mr. Tempi ton, in 1837, announced that " the only specimen (of O. imherhe)! have observed, 

 was thrown on jhe shores of Belfast Lough, near the White House Point, on January 9, 1809. It 

 was a large specimen, not less than a foot long, and agreed so exactly with the figure in the British 

 Zoology, HDd differed so much from that of Mr. Montague (Wern. Mem., p. 95, pi. 4), that I am led 

 to believe there are two distinct species, of which Pennant has described one and Montague the 

 other r— Mag. Nat. Hist., N. S., i. 412. Mr. Thompson (N. H. Ireland, iv. 1856, p. 233), was unable 

 to gain further information. If the specimen was not a thiclc eel, it may have been a Zoarcet 

 vivtparus. 



%% Encyc. Meth. Hist. Nat., ill. Poissona, p. 212. 



1864.] 




202 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



tion of the '^Imberbe," — Ophidion imberbe, — the colors as well as very low dor- 

 sal fin from Rondelet, but at the same time described the dorsal with Schoae- 

 velde as a very stiff, rigid one — still considering it a Malacopterygian! Also 

 stating that, according to Gronovius, there were 147 dorsal rays and 101 anal, 

 among which the caudal were included, he recalled that Linnaeus distin- 

 guishes the three fins, assigning to the dorsal 79 rays, to the anal 41 and to 

 the caudal 18, and the combination of these, according to our author, forms 

 238 (sic !) rays, 10 less than that which results from the enumeration of Gro- 

 novius ! He concludes by giving with Gronovius quite large, lanceolate pec- 

 torals with 26 rays ; aud, finally, with remarks on its habitat from Rondelet. 

 The description is thus based only on three species belonging certainly to as 

 many very distinct families ; but, in his synonymy, he includes references to 

 the Sea snail of Petiver* and the Congrus of Aldrovandi,f the one represent- 

 ing a Liparis, and the other a true Conger, representatives of two more fami- 

 lies. It must, however, be added, somewhat in extenuation for Haiiy, that 

 the last two, singularly enough, originated with Gronovius, perhaps the most 

 sagacious and learned ichthyologist of the past century. 



Bonnaterre,! engaged on the same great work, followed Haiiy, and con- 

 cluded his notice with the radial formula B. 7. D. 238. P. 26. V. 0. A. 

 0. G. 0., which is evidently the result for the dorsal of the sum so singu- 

 larly obtained by Haiiy from the combination of the numbers attributed by 

 Linnaeus to the dorsal, anal and caudal fins, while the numbers of the pectoral 

 and branchiostegal rays are derived from Gronovius ; the negation of the 

 anal and caudal fins is peculiar to the author himself. 



Gmelin^ included in the synonymy of the Linnaean species the references 

 to the Ophidion of Gronovius, — placing the radial formula of the latter im- 

 mediately under that of Linnaeus, — as if to draw attention to the remarkable 

 difference between the two which he could not himself appreciate, — and also 

 referred to Pennant's figure. 



Walbaum,|| in his edition of the " Genera of Artedi," simply added the 

 notices from the Fauna Suecica and Schonevelde, as well as a reference to 

 the figure of Pennant, with the opinion of Broussonet concerning the same. 



Lac6pfede1[ obtained from Linnaeus, for his notice, the rounded caudal fin 

 and radial formula, and from Rondelet the yellow color and its Mediterranean 

 habitat, while his information regarding the delicacy of its flesh in common 

 with that of the 0. barbatum is orginal, and serves well to open a paragraph. 



Shaw** copied his notice from Gronovius. 



Bloch, or his editor, Schneider, gave to the species the name Ophidium 

 '^Chinense".' at the same time depending entirely on the Fauna Suecica of Lin- 

 naeus for information relative to its habitat, — (" Habitat in mari baltico et oceano, 

 reperitur smpe intra ostrearum testas") ; and, while also deriving his knowledge 

 of its characters for his text from the same source, copied Pennant's figure 

 as illustrative at once of the species and the genus. ff 



Cuvier arising, dispelled the obscurity which involved the history of so 

 many of the most common European Fishes in his remarkable series of Mem- 

 oirs on the Fishes of the Mediterranean. In that on the Ophidium imberbe, 

 (De la Donzelle imberbe,) he demonstrated that the Ophidium. imberbe of Ron- 

 delet, and his copyist Willoughby, was distinct from that of Schonevelde, 

 Schelhammer and Linnaeus ; that the first was related to Ophidium barbatum, 

 and the second identical or very closely allied with the Bknnius gunnellus of 

 Linnaeus ; that the O. imberbe of Gronovius was a true Ophidium deprived of 



* Petiver, Gazophylaciura, tab. 51, flg. 3. 



t AldrovHndi, Pise, lib. iii. cap. 25, fig p. 349. 



1 Bonnaterre, Tab. Encyc. et Metli., fc.'Uhy., 1788, p. 41. 



I Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Gmelin's ed., 1788, p. 1147. 



I Arteili, (ien. Wsc, Walbaum's ed, 179.', p. 157. 



\ iKicfipdde, Hist. Nat., il. 1800, p. 279. 



•* Shaw, Gen. Zool., iv. 1803, p. 70. ft Bloch, Syst. Ichth., Schneider's ed. p. 4?6. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



barbels, and that Pennant's fish was an eel.* He was unable to determine a 

 fish noticed by Montague under the same name. While therefore the Ophidium 

 imberbe was eliminated from the Catalogues of Fishes of Continental Europe 

 as a distinct species, it still held a position among those of England. To the 

 consideration of this English fish we now proceed. 



In 1811, in the Memoirs of the Wernerian Society, Montaguef described 

 and figured the fish identified by him with the Ophidium imberbe It was 

 " taken on the south coast of Devon," and in " length was about three inches ;" 

 the body " ensiform ;" " the dorsal fin commences immediately above the 

 base of the pectoral, and is at first not so broad, and usually not so erect as 

 the other part," and the caudal is cuneiform and obtusely pointed. "The 

 color is purplish-brown, disposed in minute speckles; and along the base of 

 the anal fin are about ten small bluish-white spots regularly placed, but 

 scarcely discernible without a lens, possibly peculiar to younger fishes." 

 The rays were respectively — pectoral 11 ; dorsal about 74; anal 44; caudal 

 18 or 20. Such was the first detailed account of Op/iidium imberbe, based on 

 a British fish, and such the authority on which the subsequent British faun- 

 ists have preserved the species in their catalogues. By Turton,J Fleming,^ 

 Jenyns,|| Yarrell,^ Gray,** &c., it has been retained in the genus Ophidium 

 (^Fieras/er), while more recently, Kaup,ff RichardsonJJ and Griinther|§ have 

 transferred it to the genus Gymnelis ; the first originally under the name of 

 Cepolophis.\\\^ It remains to examine into the grounds for such approxima- 

 tions. 



It is not probable that a fish whose dorsal arrested the attention of Mon- 

 tague on account of its being so " erect," could have been a Malacopterygian, 

 and this character as well as the distinctness of all the rays, the development 

 of the caudal, whose rays are longer than those of the dorsal and anal, the 

 relations of the various parts, and even the gill-membranes inflated beneath, 

 render it evident that the fish in question could have been in no wise related 

 to either Ophidium, Fierasfer'i- or Gymnelis,^ all of which are Malacopierygians, 

 with caudal rays shortest and not developed as a distinct fin. Its affinities are 

 then to be sought for in another direction. The general form, the " erect" 

 dorsal fin and the number of rays, agree with Murxnoides gunnellus. The color 

 is in that species sometimes simply " purplish-brown,"' the dorsal spots be- 

 coming obsolete, and, in a single specimen from England in the Smithsonian 

 collection, several anal spots are barely discernible. 3 The failure to ob- 

 serve the ventrals was shared with Schonevelde, Schelhammer, Linnaeus, &c., 

 and we are more prepared for their non-observance by Montague when we 



• Cuvier, Mem. du Museum, i. 1815, 312—324. 



■f Montague, Mem. Wcrn. Soc, i. 1811, p. 96, pi. 4. flg. 2. 



X Turton, Brit. Faun., 1807, p. 88. g Fleming, Brit. An., 1828, p. 201. 



II Jenj ns, Man., 1835. p. 281. \ Yarrell, Br. Fishes, ii. 1841, p. 412. 



** Gray and White, List Br. An. B. M., Fishes, 1851, p. 51. 



tt Kaup, Cat. Ap. Fishes, 1856, p. 156. 



a Yarrell, Br. Kishea, Kichardson's ed., i. p. 79 {fide Gunther.) 



(j| Gunther, Cat Fishes, iv. 1862, p. 325. ||l| Kaup, Arch, fur Nat., 1856, i. p. 97. 



1 Fierasfer Cuv., is the type of a peculiar family related to the Opidioids, but with the anus 

 thoracic or jugular, the body much attenuated backwards, and the anal fin longer and higher 

 than the dorsal ; it embraces four genera, — Firra^fer Cuv.. or Carajms Kaf. (not Cuv.), EncheliopMs 

 J. Muell., — Echiodon Thompson, — the latter of which is the only British type, and Helminthodts 

 Gill, (type Oxybeks lumbricoides Blkr.,) distinguished by its very slender form. 



2 Gi/mnelis Reinh., is the representative of a peculiar family { Lycodoidie), allied to the Brotu- 

 loids, but with the branchial apertures more or less restricted, the ventrals rudimentary or obso- 

 lete, the skull oblique behind, the supraoccipital bone being deflected downwards, wedged between 

 the exoccipitals, and with its point ami low crest continued almost orquiteto the foramen magnum; 

 the cranial cavity is open in front, no o.-seous septum being developed. This family is only repre- 

 sented liy the genus Enchtlyopvs or Zoarces in the European seas, which, as J. MuUer (.4.rch. fur 

 Nat., 1843, i. 294) has shown, is truly Malacopterygian. 



3 These light spots are accidental, none being developed in other specimens from England, Den- 

 mark and the German Ocean. 



1864.] 




204 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



remember his peculiar views coacerning the ventral fins.* Objections may 

 be urged against this identification, that Montague would have recognized 

 the Murxnoides gunneMus ; that the proportions represented in his figure are 

 not precisely equivalent to those of that species, and that the critical Cuvier 

 and all succeeding naturalists have failed to notice the identity. I shall only 

 recall the admission that Linnaeus himself, after autopsy, referred one speci- 

 men of the same species to Blennius {gunnellus) and another to Ophidion {im- 

 berbe) ; that Montague wrote, in the year 1812, and in the infancy of ichthy- 

 ology, when the importance of attention to minutiae was less generally appre- 

 ciated than now, and that the identification of his fish with Mursenoides 

 gunnellus was probably stayed by the improbability of his failure to recognize 

 that common species. 



7 As Dr. Giinther, in the synonymy of " Gymnelis imberbis,"f has represented 

 the ideas of the English naturalists; and, as his work is the last authority 

 referring to it, an analysis and reduction of that synonymy to its proper ele- 

 ments will form a fitting conclusion to these remarks. 



1. MUR^NOIDESj GUNNELLUS CX L. 



Ophidium imberbe L.; Montag.; Turton, 88; Fleming, 201/ Jeni/m, 4:81 ; Yar- 



rell, ed. 1, ii. ; ed. 2, ii. 412. 

 Cepolophis Montagui Kaup. 

 Gymnelis imberbis Kaup, Ap. Rich, in Yarrell, ed. 3 (fide Gthr.) 



2. Caeapus^ acus Raf. ex Brun. 

 Ophidium imberbe Lac, pt. (Radial formula and caudal fin of Muramoidet 



gunnellus.) 



3. MuRiENA|| ANGUiLLA L. or allied sp. 

 " Beardless Ophidium Pennant," Brit. Zool., iii. 398. App., tab. 93. 



• The reference by Dr. Shaw of Vandellius lusitanicus (■= Lepidopus caudatus) to the thoracic 

 order, " caused the obscurity of Vandellius lusitanicus, as no one could have expected to have 

 found au Apodal fish placed in that division. How that naturalist could have fallen into such an 

 error, 1 cannot conceive, unless he considered the pair of ventral scales as rudiments of those fins, 

 or what is commonly attached to the base of the ventral fins of some fishes, as may be observed 

 in many Spari." "I am aware that it has been contended that these abdominal scales are lamel- 

 iated ventral fins. If so, we have yet to leain the definition of a fin in the modern i evolution of 

 science. Those who contend for the continuance of Vandellius of Shaw or for the Lepidope of 

 Risso being continued in the Thoracic order, must also constitute a new order for many fishes 

 that have such lamellated appendages, independent of two ventral fins. Uut 1 cannot admit of a 

 simple corneous scale, destitute of motion, being a ventral fin." — Montague, in Mem. Wern. Soc., 

 ii. 1818, pp. 432, 433. 



' t Dr- Giinther remarks, that the Gymnelis stigma and G. imberbis "probably do not belong to 

 this genus." 



Gymnelis stigma — Ophidium stigma Lay and Benn. (sic) — is probably congeneric with and per- 

 haps even closely related to G. viridis; and it at least greatly resembles some varieties of that 

 variable species. The poor figure and the assignment of " very small" scales to it led mo, on a 

 former occasion, to think otherwise, like Dr. Gunther ; but we must remember that the notes and 

 illustrations of Ophidium stigma were made by an inexperienced naturalist, and that he may 

 have been deceived as to the presence of scales. However, we may also recall that there is a great 

 variation in sqiiamation in a genus representing a closely related subfamily, — (Lycodes.) 



J The question will naturally arise among those who contend that we should date our nomen- 

 clature from the tenth edition of the Systenia Naturae — that being the first in which the binomial 

 system is introduced — whether we should not replace the name Murienoides, Centronotus. or Gun- 

 nellus by Ophidion. Perhaps this will eventually be done, since the genus was well defined and 

 its diagnosis only applicable to the O. imberbe. Others may contend that the name must be retained 

 for the first spccie8--{0. barbatum) — in spite of its total disagreement. The decision of this ques- 

 tion may be suspended till the publication of the new rules of the British Association. 



2 The name Girapus was first connected with the Gymnotin acus by Kafinegque (Ind., 1819, p. 

 37, 57), who only referred to that specifs, although he doubtless intended his genus to correspond 

 with Lac6pdde's anonymous second subgenus of Gymnotus, which included the Gymnotus cara- 

 pus L., G. acus L. (= i'ierasfer acus Kaup) and O. rostratus L. (= Rhamphichthys roslratus M., 

 T.) A strict adherence to the laws will, however, necessitate the retention of the name for the 

 only species mentioned — (C. acvs.) 



I Bleoker is donbtle.18 correct in retaining the name Murtena fir the M. anguilla. The naras 

 was restricted to the type represented by that species by Bloch, who first subdivided the genus, 

 and the if. anguiUa was evidently the one on which Artcdi and Linnseus based their diagnoses. 



^ . [Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHlLADELPHfA. 205 



2. "TRICHIURUS LEPTURUS." 



The question which we shall next consider relates to the specimens identi- 

 fied by Mr. James Hoy* with the Trichiurus lepiurus of Linnaeus. 



In the Transactions of the Linnaean Society, Mr. Hoy has published an ac- 

 count of two fishes stranded at considerable intervals of time '■ upon the 

 shore of the Moray Frith, near the fishing village of Port Gordon." The first 

 specimen was found " on the 2d of November, 1810, after a high wind from 

 the north :" " its head was much broken ;" "the extremity of the upper jaw, 

 or upper part of the mouth, was entire ; upon either side of which was an 

 operculum ;" " the body, from the gills to the point of the tail, was three feet 

 two inches long ; its greatest breadth six inches and a quarter, and its great- 

 est thickness only an inch ;" " both sides of the fish were wholly white, 

 without a spot upon them ;" " the dorsal fin was the only part of a different 

 color, being a blackish-green ; this ran all the way back from the gills to the 

 tail ;" " the tail ended in a point, consisting of three or four soft spines or 

 bristles of different lengths, not exceeding two inches. The body was nearly 

 of the same breadth for one half of its length, and then its breadth diminish- 

 ed gradually till within three inches of the tail, when the diminution became 

 more quick. The lateral line was straight, and strongly marked along 

 the middle of the two sides." 



The second specimen was obtained " on the 12th of November, 1812 •" 

 " its head had been broken off and was quite gone ; a small bit ot the gills 

 only remained about the upper part of the throat, from whence to the ex- 

 tremity of the tail its length was twelve feet nine inches ; its breadth, eleven 

 inches and a quarter, was nearly equal for the first six feet in length from 

 the gills, diminishing gradually from thence to the tail, which endedin a blunt 

 point, without any of those kind of bristles which projected from the tail of 

 the one found formerly; its greatest thickness was two inches and a half • 

 the distance from the gills to the anus forty-six inches. The dorsal fin ex- 

 tended from the head to the tail," &c. " There were no ventral nor anal fins • 

 but the thin edge of the belly was closely muricated with small hard points, which 

 although scarcely visible through the skin, were very plainly felt all along it. 

 Both sides of the fish were white, with four longitudinal bars of a darker color • 

 the one immediately below the dorsal fin was about two inches broad, each of 

 the other three about three-fourths of an inch. The side line straight along 

 the middle." 



On the authority of these specimens, the Trichiurus lepiurus was admitted 

 by the British Faunists in the Catalogues of their fishes. 



Dr. Fleming! considered that the two specimens belonged to different spe- 

 cies. "The differences in the position of the vent, the structure of the tail 

 and the condition of the edge of the belly, seem too great to justify the in- 

 ference of their being only varieties. The latter fish appears identical with 

 the Lepiurus of Artedi, and consequently of Linnaeus." 



Subsequently, Dr. Fleming^ considered that "the position assigned to the 

 vent, the absence of ventral fins, and the white color of the sides, (of Hoy's 

 first specimen) all accord with the Deal-fish, {IVaehypterua.) The color of 

 the dorsal fin, however, which was of blackish-green, seems to oppose this 

 view, though the dead state of the fish may probably serve to explain this 

 difference, if duly considered." 



Repugnant as must be sueh peryersions of names, consideration for the uniformity of nomenclature, 

 which may best be attained by strict adhrtrence to the laws, seems to require assent to them. The 

 genus Anguilla is generally attributed to Thunberg, but a search instituted among his various mem- 

 moirs has failed to reveal any mention of it, and it is to be remarked, tliat no naturalist has re- 

 ferred to any precise worli. Prof. Agassiz, indeed, refers to '< Anguilla Thunh., Nuov. Mem. Stock. 

 179 — ," but no such generic name is to be found in the series refcned to under that title, 



♦ Tfny Trans. Linn, Soc. xi , p. 210. 



+ Fleming, Br. An., 182S p. 20 1. 



X Fleming, Loudon's Mag. N. II. iv., 1831, p. 219. 



1864.] 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Mr. Jenyns* was inclined to adopt Dr. Fleming's opinion — " that the first 

 specimen of Hoy was a distinct species, if not belonging to a different genus. 

 There can be no doubt that the one described above (Hoy's second specimen) 

 was a true Trichiurus, and probably T. Lepturtu of Linnaeus and other authors ; 

 but as the description is rather imperfect, and the species of this genus ill 

 determined, it is impossible to speak with certainty on this last point." 



Yarrellf especially alluded to the median lateral line and lateral bands, and 

 remarked that " it is evident that more information on the subject is required; 

 the result of it may be the establishment of Mr. Hoy's second fish as a new 

 species of Trichiurus, and of his first fish, which is evidently distinct from 

 the second, as the type of a new genus, if, as Dr. Fleming has suggested, it 

 was not a mutilated example of the Deal-fish of the Arcadians, Gymnetrui 

 arciicus." 



With enlarged opportunities for arriving at a possible decision concerning 

 at least the second specimen, I proceed to institute inquiries into the nature 

 of these materials. The form and approximately the proportions noticed by 

 Hoy, the "operculum on each side" of the mouth, simulated by the supra- 

 raaxillars, the soft dorsal rays, the bristles at the end of the tail, the strongly 

 marked straight lateral line appear to indicate, as Fleming has suggested, 

 that Hoy had before him, in his first specimen, a much injured example of 

 Trachypterus with most of its fins destroyed, and it is probable that a hole, 

 caused by the caducous ventral fins, mighthave been mistaken for the anus ;J 

 this may seem very remarkable, but it is evident that Mr. Hoy has not the 

 slightest claim to scientific consideration, and the hole so created in Trachyp- 

 terus would correspond in space to the " anus" discovered by that gentleman. 

 A thoracic anus is incompatible with the structure of the Trachypteroids or 

 any related forms. The "blackish-green" color of the portion of the dorsal 

 remaining might have been due to discoloration, and we need not be much 

 astonished that the lateral dorsal spots were overlooked in such a specimen. 



The second specimen of Hoy evidently belonged to an entirely different type. 

 The form and " closely muricated" belly indicate that it was related to the 

 family of Lepturoids or Trichiuroids, but the " blunt point" in which the 

 tail terminates, as well as the median lateral line, forbid us, on morphological 

 grounds alone, from referring it to Trichiurus lepturus. It might have been 

 supposed to have been a specimen of Lepidopus caudatus, were it not for the 

 color, but that, sustained by the superior height, forbids us to refer it to that 

 species. What then can it have been? 



In the summer of 1863, I received from the learned Cuban naturalist, Prof. 

 Poey, of the University of Havana, a fish, concerning whose sj'Stematic po- 

 sition he was unable to satisfy himself. This fish was found to resemble 

 Lepidopus caudatus in all essential characters except the remarkable form of 

 the head, which was exceedingly compressed, trenchant and obliquely de- 

 curved above, with the forehead elevated above the eyes, and the chin obtuse. 

 Notwithstanding such characters, its affinity to Lepidopus was evidently so 

 great, the form, structure of the fins, especially the anomalous form of the 

 pectorals, and the development of the opercular bones coinciding, that I 

 felt compelled to retain it in the same subfamily, in contradistinction to one 

 containing Trichiurus (= Lepturus Art.) and Eupleurogrammus.^ The color 



* Jenyns, Manual 1835, p. 372. 



t VamU, Br. Fishes, i, 1841, p. 201 (207.) 



J This same mistake, indeed, was made in the communication by Dr. Duguid to Dr. Fleming, 

 concerning the Siune fish, (see Loudon's Mag. iv., 1831, pp. 215, 210,) and Dr. Fleming, himself, so 

 far from correcting the error, alluded to the similarity of the so-called vent as evidence of the 

 perCiiicQce of Hoy's flsh to the same species, (op. cit. iv., 219). By a somewhat singular coincidence, 

 tho same error in identifloation of the Trachypterus with the Trichiurus lepturus was made by 

 Olafsen (Voyage to Iceland, p. 69i6.) 



J Gill, "Synopsis of the Family of Lepturoids, and Description of a Remarkable New Oeneric 

 Type." in Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Philadelphia, 1863, p. 224. Ike. In this article I have suggested the 

 relation of lloy's flsh and EvoxymeU^pon tseniatus. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



arrested my attention, there being six or seven narrow bands, the lateral 

 line running through the fourth ; the interval between the two dorsal bands 

 was more indistinct, and the two could readily be confounded ; the width of 

 the two would equal about a sixth of the height, while the width of the sin- 

 gle ones was contained about fifteen or sixteen times in the height. The two 

 lower bands were more indistinct. I was therefore at once reminded of the 

 Trichiurvs lepivrus of Hoy, and the similar development of the bars, as 

 well as the approximation in proportions, compel me to believe that the sec- 

 ond specimen of Hoy is in reality a species of the genus Evoxymetopon, if not 

 indeed identical with the Cuban fish itself, {Evoxymetopon tscrAatus Poey.) 

 The greatest height of the latter, at the scapular region, is contained scarcely 

 more than twelve times (12 l-5th) in the extreme length, while a short dis- 

 tance behind, and for a considerable distance, it is contained from thirteen 

 and a half to fourteen times. The head enters eight times and a half, and 

 the caudal, at its longest rays, twenty-nine times and a half in the same. 

 The anus is midways between the snout and root of caudal. In this last re- 

 spect it disagrees with the specimen signalized by Hoy, according to whom 

 the anus was very considerably within the limits of the first third of the 

 length (46: 153 -j-^t)* Such a position is extremely improbable in a repre- 

 sentative of the subfamily of Lepidopodinae, to^which the specimen doubtless 

 belongs. The true anus, on account of its small size, was probably over- 

 looked, and a rupture of the skin mistaken for it. May we not hope tha^^ 

 some British naturalist will soon release us from our doubts, and verify the 

 systematic position of Hoy's fish ? 



POLYPROSOPUS Couch. 



Having provisionally adopted the generic name Polyprosopus, proposed by 

 Couch, in the "Analytical Synopsis of the Order of Squall," remarking at the 

 same time that the genus was " not yet well established," it seems advisable 

 now to express my conviction that it belongs to the genus Cetorhinus or Selac/ie, 

 and that the differences observed are probably due to distortion or defective 

 observation. I have already stated that "the absence of caudal carinae or 

 spiracles is quite improbable," and certainly no scientist could believe in the 

 absence of the anal fin in such a type. 



I may finally be permitted to add, in anticipation of a more extended 

 memoir, remarks on the Lemniscates of Richardson, and more especially the 

 Leptocephalus Morrisii Gm. The recent exposition of the character of such 

 fishes, by Professor V. Carus,* will excuse this anticipation. I am happy to 

 be able to express my unqualified belief in the conclusion as to their being 

 simply larval forms, which that learned naturalist has enunciated. As long 

 as the known hyaline fishes conformed to a single type, naturalists might be 

 excused for regarding them as fully developed forms, but the doubt this group 

 was first subjected to by the failure of Kollikerf to find organs of generation 

 was increased by the addition by Kaup of the genus Esunculus,X and subse- 

 quently of Stomiasunculus.^ Carus was therefore, I think, fully justified in 

 his "conclusion that all these fishes are nothing but larval forrns of others," 

 but he was not so happy in looking for the aaults " among the Ophidians, or 

 other compressed forms, [Cepola, and so on.)" I am almost certain that 

 the typical Leptocepkali, at least, are the young of Congers, and that Leptoceph- 

 alus Morrisii is the young of Conger vulgaris. I am aware, indeed, that Yar- 

 relll| has discovered that small congers, " abont the size (length?) of a man's 



* Cams "on the Leptocephalidse," in Rep. Br. Ass. 1861, p. 120. 

 t KoUilcer, Zeitschrift fur Wiss. Zool. iv., p. 360. 

 t Kaup, Apodal Fishes, 1856, p. 143, fig. 3. 

 § Kaup, An. Mag. N. H. (3) 1860, p. 270. 

 i rarrell, Br. Fishes ii., 1841, p. 404. 



1864.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



finger, are found among the rocks, close to land, during the summer." But 

 he immediately afterwards adds that, " the small eels which ascend the 

 Severn in such numbers in the spring, and were considered by Willoughby 

 and Pennant as the young of the Conger, are in reality the young of fresh- 

 water eels." May we not go a step farther and ask that it may be demonstrated 

 that those "found among rocks, close to land," are Congers, and not eels, 

 which have not yet commenced to ascend the rivers ? 



The Hyoproprus Messinensis* appears, likewise, to be merely the larval form 

 of the Congroid Nettastoma melanura.f The resemblance between those two 

 forms will be readily appreciated, by reference to Dr. Kaup's figures of the two. 

 Perhaps the affinities of those Leptocephali with an expanded caudal, are to 

 be sought for elsewhere. As to Esunculus costal, it resembles the young of a 

 Clupeoid, but the high insertion of the pectoral fins, if existent in nature, forbids 

 for the present its positive identification with such. Siomiasunculus resembles, 

 in general features, a less advanced larval Clupeoid, about three days old. J in 

 which the ventral fins have not yet appeared. Suspicion, however, may be en- 

 tertained that it may, perhaps, be the young of some other type, (possibly 

 Stomiadoids) on account of the backward position of the dorsal fin. I have 

 myself, in company with a friend, seen the young of CJupeoids, which would 

 have either been referred to Esunculus, or considered as the type of a closely 

 allied new one, on account of the inferior insertion of the pectoral fins, and so 

 •transparent were they, that their eyes alone indicated their position in the 

 water. Although entertaining no doubts concerning the larval nature of Esuncu- 

 lus and Siomiasunculus, I only venture to suggest the possible relations with 

 much reserve. As to Porobronchus, Kaup.,§ it is, perhaps, related to Fierasfer, 

 but the character of the first elongated dorsal ray requires to be known, before 

 a decision can be arrived at. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 



Note on the family of STICBL£OIDS. 

 BY THEODORE GILL. 



There have been referred to the family of Blennioids a number of more or 

 less elongated fishes, somewhat recalling to mind the Ounnelh, but with the 

 body more tapering backwards and covered with scales ; the head compara- 

 tively elongated and produced towards the snout ; the skull depressed be- 

 hind the eyes ; the branchial apertures produced forwards ; the dorsal fin 

 composed of spines ; and the stomach caecal, and also distinguished by the 

 development of caeca around the pylorus. This combination of characters 

 seems to indicate the necessity of the separation of the fishes so distinguished 

 from the family of Blennioids, one of the principal characters assigned to 

 which, by authors of even the most recent date, has been the want of caeca. 

 The named genera known are Leptoblennius Gill, Lumpenus Reinh., Leptoclinus 

 Gill, Stichseus Reinh., and Chirolophis Sw. (Carelophus Kr. = Blenniops Nilss.) 

 For this assemblage the name Stichaeoida; may be appropriated. 



Nearly related to this family is that of Cryptacanthoidae, proposed in the 

 " Catalogue of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast." As there is, however, con- 

 siderable difi"erence in the form and development of the head, and the ven- 

 trals are likewise obsolete, it would scarcely be advisable to combine them 

 and the Stichseoidas in one family. There are five pyloric appendages in 

 Cryptacanthodes. The genus has none of the peculiar characters of the 



♦ X^oKtfcer Verb d. Phyg. Med. GesellBch in Wursburg; iv., p. 101. 

 t Raf. Caratteri, kc, 1810, p. 66, tav. 16, f. 1. 



X See Sundeval "Om Fiskyngels Utveckling" in Kongl. Vet. Akad. Handl. i., 1856, tab. it., 

 flg. 6. 

 I Jfattp. Aa. Mag. N. H. (S) ri., 1860, p. 272. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Oataphracti, nor has it any resemblance to any genus of that group. It evi- 

 dently is closely related to the Blennioids, and has even been referred to that 

 family by Dr. Giinther, who was unacquainted with its anatomy. 



Also allied to the Stichaeoids is the genus Cebedichthys, a herbivorous fish 

 with a very long intestinal canal, and well developed caeca, inhabiting the 

 Pacific waters of the United States. The structure of the dorsal fin, the 

 want of ventral fins, and the form of the head, for the present detain us from 

 referring it to the family. 



Such are, in brief, the characters and relations of the family of Stichaeoids. 

 It is now proposed to submit a corrected list of the species found in the north- 

 eastern American seas, and to give the distinguishing characters by which 

 the various genera may be recognized. 



Synopsis. 



I. Body much elongated. Lateral line obsolete. D. 59 — 80, 



at. Pectoral fins ovate, regularly convex behind. 

 ^ * Teeth on the jaws alone. 



t V. I. 4. Body robust. D. 60-65 (63) ; A. I. 42 ; 



anterior dorsal rays graduated and united.. Centroblennius. 

 tt ^' ^- ^ ( — ^) Body extremely elongated. D. 

 69 — 80 ; A. 48 — 55 ; Anterior dorsal short 



and nearly free Leptoblennius. 



** Teeth on the jaws and vomer. 



f B. 7. Anal nearly uniform. Caudal acute.... Lumpenus. 

 ff B. 6. Anal at its anterior half depressed. 



Caudal rounded Anisarchus. 



/?. Pectoral fins with the upper rays abbreviated. 

 Caudal subtruncated. 

 *** Teeth on the jaws, vomer and palatines Leptoclinus. 



II. Body moderately elongated. Lateral line more or 



less developed. 



* Lateral line single, superior Stich»us, 



** Lateral line with superior and median branches 



united in front, the median longest Eumesogrammus. 



CENTROBLENNIUS Gill. 

 Centroblennius nubilds Gill. 

 Lumpenus nubilus Rich., Last Arctic Voyages, p. 359, ph 28. Gthr. ir., 564: 

 Centroblennius nubilus Gill, Cat. 45. 

 D. 63. A. I. 42. C. 17. P. 16. V. L 4. 

 Ilab. — Wellington Sound. 



LEPTOBLENNIUS Gill. 

 Leptoblennius serpentincs Gill ex St. 

 Blennins serpentinus Storer, Proc. Boston iii. 30 ; Mems. Am. Ac. 

 Leptoblennius serpentinus Gill, Proc. Phila. Cat. 44. 



Ifab. — Massachusetts, Maine. 



This species, originally founded on a specimen in which a couple of the 

 middle dorsal rays were broken, and the scales rubbed off, was referred to 

 Blennius, from which I subsequently separated it, as it evidently did not be- 

 long to that genus. A specimen obtained by Dr. Stimpson, off the coast of 

 Maine, appears to be identical with Dr. Storer's species, notwithstanding the: 

 disparity in the number of rays. It has enabled me to recognize its true 

 affinities with the Lumpenus gracilis of Reinhardt, near which I had long sus- 

 pected that it belongs. The Maine specimen is colored like the Massachusetts 

 one, and has a caudal like L. gracilis, and only seventy-six dorsal spines, 

 fifty-five anal rays, the first of which is nearly under the twenty-fifth of the 



1864.] 1-t 




210 ■ PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



dorsal, and in the ventrals there are three articulated and one spinous rays. 

 Storer's specimen is said to have, and is figured with eighty-seven dorsal 

 rays ; there are sixty-six anal and two ventral. I cannot but suspect, how- 

 ever, that on account of the poor condition of the specimen, some misappre- 

 hension may have resulted. 



Leptoblensius gracilis Gill ex St. 

 Blennius gracilis Stuvitz. 



Clinus gracilis Reinhardt, Vid. Selsk. Nat. og Math. Afh. vii., 194. 

 Lumpenus gracilis Reinhardt. Kr. Nat. Tid. (3) i., 282. 

 Lumpenus nebulosus pt. Nilsson, Skand. Fauna iv., 195. 

 Centroblennius nebulosus Gill, Cat. 45. 



On the authority of Prof. Nilsson, this species was presented in the Catalogue 

 of the Fishes of the Eastern Coast under the name of Fries, but according to 

 Kroyer it is distinct. 



LUMPENUS Reinhardt. 



Lumpenus Fabricii Reinhardt. 



Blennius lumpenus Fab., Fauna Gr. sp. 109. 



Clinus lumpenus Reinh., Vid. Selsk. Nat. og. Math. Afh. vii., 114. 

 Lumpenus Fabricii Reinh., Vid. Selsk. Forh. 1832 — 5, p. ex. 

 Gunnellus Fabricii Storer, Syn. 121, 

 Hab. — Greenland. 



ANISARCHUS Gill. 

 Anisarchus medius Gill ex. R. 

 Clinus medius Reinh., Vid. S. N. og. M. Afh. vii., 114, 121, 194. 

 Lumpenus medius Reinh., Vid. Selsk., Fohr. 1835 — 6, p. ex. 

 Hab. — Greenland. 



LEPTOCLINUS Gill. 

 ■Ctenodon Nilsson (not Swainson.) 



Leptoclinus aculeatus Gill ex. R. 

 •Clinus acnleatus Reinh., Vid. S. N. og. M. Afh. vii., 114, 122. 

 Lumpenus aculeatus Reinh. 

 Leptoclinus maculatus Gill, Cat. 45. 

 •Lumpenus maculatus Nilsson, Sk. F. iv., 190. 

 -> Bab. — Greenland. 



In this case, also, Nilsson was my guide in the identification with Lumpe- 

 nus maculatus, but, as shown by Kroyer, such is undoubtedly erroneous. 



STICHiEUS Reinhardt. 

 Sticks us punctatus Reinh. ex. Fab. 

 Blennius punctatus Fab., F. G. No. 110. 

 Clinus punctatus Reinh., Vid. S. N. og. M. Afh. vii., 114. 

 Stichfeus punctatus Reinh., Vid. Selsk. Fohr. 1832—1836, p. ex. 

 Hab. — Greenland. 



EUMESOGRAMMUS Gill. 

 EuMESOGRAMMus PR^cisus Gill ex Kr. 

 Clinus praecisus Kroyer, Nat. Tid. i., 25, Aug. 1836, (fide Kr.) 

 'Clinus unimaculatus Reinh., Vid. S. N. og. M. Afh. vii., 114, 121, Feb. 1837, 



(fide Kr.) 

 Stichaeus prajcisus Kroyer, Nat. Tid. i., 372 ; Voyage en Scand., kc, tab. 20, 

 f. 1, a— f ; Nat. Tid. (3) i., 295, 1862. 

 Hab. — Greenland. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



EUMESOQRAMMUS SUB-BIFURCA.TUS GUI CX St. 



m 



Pholis swb-bifurcatus Storer, Rep. 63 ; Syn. 118. 



Stichseus sub-bifurcatus Gill, Cat. 45. (Storer, Putnam, &c.) 



Hab. — Massachusetts, Maine, Nova Scotia, &c., and Newfoundland. 



Especially distinguished from K prmcisus by the absence of the abdominal 

 lines, and the continuance of the median lateral one to the base of the 

 caudal fin. 



Notes on SHELLS, with descriptions of new fossil Genera and Species. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



NOETIA, Gray. 



N. PONDEROSA, Say, occurs abundantly in the Post-Pliocene of the Southern 

 States, and lives on the southern coast of Florida. Specimens have lately 

 been received from Pensacola, and are in the cabinet of the Academy. It is 

 unknown in the Miocene, the shell I referred to as a variety being a dis- 

 tinct species. 



TURRITELLA, Lam. 



T. PB^ciNCTA. Turrited, broad at base ; sides straight, a profoundly ele- 

 vated, thick, angular carina revolves at the summit of each volution, gradu- 

 ally disappearing at the fourth whorl ; carina slightly channelled above, and 

 having a single revolving line beneath near its junction with the whorls, 

 which have each three revolving lines, the inferior one most prominent. 

 Length 3| inches ; width of body whorl, independent of carina, f inch. 



Locality. Dallas Co. ? Alabama. Eocene. 



This large species differs from T. Mortoni in having a larger and more ab- 

 ruptly elevated carina, larger and fewer revolving striae, &c. It is allied to 

 T. ro'ifera, Lam. The specimen described was loaned for the purpose by Mr, 

 R. P. Whitfield. Other specimens are in Barnum's Museum, N. Y. 



PROTOCARDIA, Beyrich. 



P. viRGiNiANA. Cordate, subtriangular, inequilateral, ventricose, thin ; ra- 

 diating lines minute ; anterior upper margin very oblique, slightly emarginate, 

 posterior side slightly produced, the margin obliquely truncated ; post-um- 

 bonal area densely tuberculated on closely arranged striae ; posterior cardinal 

 tooth small, tubercular. Height IJ inch ; length 1 2-5ths inch. 



Locality. Pamunkey River, Virginia. Mr. Rufl&n. 



This species is smaller and proportionally longer than P. NicoUeti, wi*;h a 

 smaller umbo, &c. This is the third Eocene species of Protocardia found in 

 the United States. There are two species in the American Cretaceous rocks. 

 The genus did not survive the Eocene fauna. 



EcPHORA 4-cosTATA, Say. 



Lister's figure 1059, fig. 2, represents a rare variety of this species, without 

 umbilicus. I found one such specimen. Dillwyn erroneously refers Lister's 

 figure to a variety of Buccinum scala. The shell is very peculiar in substance, 

 resembling horn. The umbilicus, though generally enormously large, is 

 sometimes moderate. The range of this species is from New Jersey to South 

 Carolina, inclusive. 



FASCIOLARIA, Lam. 



F. 8DBTENTA. Fusiform ; volutions 7 ; body whorl ventricose, penultimate 

 subangulated, the others angular below the middle, tuberculato-costate ; 

 surface rugoso-striate ; lines alternate on the spire, irregular on the body 

 whorl, many of them thick and prominent ; minute, rugose, longitudinal lines 

 ornament the whorls ; outer lip ribbed within, the ribs divided towards the 



1864.] 




212 PRocEEDiNas or the academy of 



interior ; plait on the columella acute, bounded on either side by a furrow- 

 Length 5| inches ; width 2| inches. 



Locality. Natural Well, Dauphin Co., N. C. 



FASCIOLARID^I 

 LIROSOMA, Conrad. 



L. cuRviROSTRA. Subfusiform ; volutions 6 ; spire prominent ; ribs rounded, 

 revolving, six on the sides of the two larger whorls of the spire, and one on 

 the flat upper surface ; about 21 on the body whorl with a iine intermediate 

 line ; surface of the shell finely wrinkled longitudinally ; aperture patulous ; 

 base of columella rounded ; fold obsolete ; beak long and twisted. 



Locality. North Carolina? 



A larger species than L. sulcosa, and differing in having a longer and 

 twisted beak, more prominent and acute spire, and in wanting the longitu- 

 dinal furrow or coarse lines, &c. 



ERYCINELLA, Conrad. 

 E. ovALis, Conrad. Having obtained several specimens of this Miocene 

 fossil since the description was first published, I find, on comparison with 

 the English shell sent me by S. V. Wood, that it is a distinct species from the 

 latter. 



Mr. Stimpson also made the comparison in my presence, and came to the 

 same conclusion. The error, therefore, in the Monograph of the Crag Mol- 

 lusca is mine. 



CYPRINID^. 



CYPRIMERIA. 



Lentiform ; hinge of right valve broad, with a bifid oblique cardinal tooth 

 under the apex, and two oblique acute anterior teeth, with an intermediate 

 pit for the reception of the tooth in the opposite valve. 



Cytherba bxcavata, Morton. 

 Only one valve has been obtained showing the hinge, and the exterior 

 markings, which consist of very fine concentric lines on the umbo and wrin- 

 kled lines of growth on the other parts. There is no cartilage pit. Behind 

 the bifid tooth is a slightly raised plate rugoso-striate. The muscular im- 

 pression unknown. Found at Arneytown, N. J., in Cretaceous marl. 



Cyprimeria excarata. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



^8 



Dosmiopsis. 



Equivalve, lentiform ; hinge with three cardinal teeth in each valve ; pos- 

 terior tooth of right valve bifid ; in the left valve a thick rugose lateral tooth 

 fitting into a cavity in the opposite valve ; under the apex is a pit or cavity,; 

 cartilage plate granulated ; pallial sinus deep and angular. 



Exteriorly the shells of this genus resemble Dosinia ; and the pit under the 

 apex and the form of the pallial impression are similar, but the anterior, 

 thick, rugose cardinal tooth, the posterior hinge channel and tooth-like plate, 

 and the muscular impressions ally it most nearly to Vbnilia and Cyprina. 



Venus lineolatua, Sowerby, has a hinge character nearly allied to, if not 

 identical with, this genus. 



D. MBEKii. Short ovate, ventricose, moderately thick, inequilateral ; ante- 

 rior margin regularly rounded ; posterior dorsal margin elongated, rounded, 

 very oblique, the extremity subangulated ; apex prominent ; basal margin 

 profoundly curved ; lunule obsolete, or defined by an obscure line ; surface 

 without other lines than those of growth. Height \^ inch ; length 1| inch. 



Locality. Six miles east of "Washington, D. C. Meek. 



Proportionally more elevated and convex than D. {Cythered) lenticularis, 

 Rogers. 



A singular feature of this shell is a tuberculated callus under the anterior 

 cardinal plate, which occurring in 4 valves must be characteristic of the spe- 

 cies. It has the appearance of having grown up from the inner surface of the 

 valve and folded over the under side of the hinge plate. 



Mr. Meek found this species abundantly in a dark grey quartzose sand, six 

 miles east of Washington, D. C, in company with other new univalves and 

 bivalves. Cytherea lenticularis, Rogers, belongs to the genus Dosiniopsis, and 

 more cjosely resembles Dosinia exteriorly. Both characterize the oldest 

 portion of the American Eocene which has yet been observed. 



This genus, like the preceding, is remarkable for uniting the characters of 

 two families, Cyprinidse and Veneridx^ which are obviously distinct in the re- 

 cent shells. 



1864.] 



Dosiniopsis Meekii. 




204 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



RADIOLITES, Lam. 



Subgenus Tamiosoma, Conrad. 



R. GRBGARiA, Conrad. Explorations and Surveys for Rail-road route to 

 Pacific, vi. 72, iv. 18. This fossil is characteristic of the Cretaceous forma- 

 tion in California. 



October Ath. 



Mr. Lea in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " On a blind Silurid from Pennsylvania," and " On the Characters 

 of the higher groups of Reptilia squamata, &c," By E. D. Cope. 



October llth. 

 Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



October ISth. 



Dr. McEuen in the Chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Fasti Orni- 

 thologias." No. 1. By John Cassin. 



October 2bth. 



Dr. Bridges, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fourteen members present. 



On report of the respective committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Synopsis of the FLEIJBGNECTOIDS of the Eastern Coast of North America. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the present brief article, an analytical synopsis distinguishing the genera 

 of east coast Pleuronectoids, already named, is submitted, and the different 

 names under which the species have been described are referred to the syno- 

 nymy of the species to which they are supposed to belong ; and, in one case, 

 {Reinhardtius hippoglossoides) where the decision of the synonymy would in- 

 volve the nomenclature and geographical distribution of two widely distinct 

 forms, the synonymy has been quite fully discussed. If the premises taken 

 are correct, the genera herewith enumerated are the only known forms as yet 

 entitled to a place in the Fauna of the East Coast. If, on the other hand, 

 that view against which I have contended is the true one, the genus Glyp- 

 tocephalus, an ally of Pleuronectes, must be added, and the name Reinhardtius 

 hippoglossoides replaced by another. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ^16 



Family SOLEOIDJE, Bob. 



Subfamily SOLEINiE, (Bon.) 



ACHIRUS, Lac. 

 Grammichthys Kaup. 

 Trinectus Raf. 



ACHIBDS LIHBATUS, CuV. 



Pleuronectus achiras L. 

 Pleuronectus lineatus L. 

 Achirus fasciatus Lac. 

 Pleuronectes mollis Mit. 

 Achirus (lineatus) Ctiv. 

 Achirus mollis St. 

 Grammichthys lineatus Kaup, 

 Solea achirus Gthr. 



Subfamily PLAGUSIN.S:. 



PLAGUSIA, Brown. 

 Aphoristiii Kaup. 

 Glossichthys Gill. 



Plagusia plagiusa, Gill. 

 Pleuronectes plagiusa Linn, 

 Plagusia fasciata Dek. 

 Glossichthys plagiusa Gill. 

 Hab. — North and South Carolina. 



Family PLEURONECTOID^, Bon. 



We owe to Cuvier the first natural subdivision of the genus Pleuronectes, 

 as restricted by Quensel. That great philosopher distributed the representa- 

 tives of the genus thus limited, which is equivalent to a family in the modern 

 acceptation of the word, among three subgenera : — Platessa, in which the 

 teeth of the jaws are uniserial, trenchant and obtuse, and those of the 

 pharyngeal bones blunt ; Hippoglossus, in which all the teeth are strong 

 and acute, and Rhombus, similar to the latter, but with the dorsal advanced 

 towards the edge 'of the upper jaw. The species respectively referred to 

 these several groups are evidently closely related, and all possess characters 

 coincident with those assigned by Cuvier, and apparently of greater value. 

 The Platessa have a small oblique mouth in front of the eyes ; the Uippo- 

 glossi, a large one extending below the eye ; and in the Rhombi, the ventral 

 fins are very broad at their bases, the rays distant, and the fin of the colored 

 side on the ridge of the abdomen. These groups correspond to the subfamilies 

 PleuronectinjB, Hippoglossinse and Rhombinae as now limited, and thus have 

 different elements from the subfamilies of Bonaparte. The natural character 

 of these groups was first destroyed by the reference to the Platessse of the 

 Pleuronectes limandoides of Bloch. This fish was referred by Cuvier to the 

 genus Hippoglossus, but was subsequently transferred by all naturalists to the 

 genus Platessa, with which it neither agrees in technical characters nor in 

 natural ones. Subsequent modifications of the subgenera of Cuvier rendered 

 them still less natural, and the American species, especially, were grouped 

 little in accordance with their affinities. In the following synopsis of the Pleu- 

 ronectoids of Eastern North America, I have distributed the species in accord- 

 ance with the Cuvierian ideas. 



I. Mouth small, the supramaxillary ending before or un- 

 der front of eye Pleuronectin^. 



A. Body with, scattered ciliated scales. Teeth move- 

 able Euchalarodus. 



1864.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



AA. Body with well developed scales. Teeth fixed, 

 a. Lateral line with no arch in front. Scales reg- 

 ularly imbricated Pseudopleuronedes. 



tta. Lateral line with a semicircular arch in front. 



0. Snout conic ; mouth moderately oblique.... Myzopsetta. 



0P. Snout retuse ; mouth very oblique Limanda. 



AAA. Body perfectly smooth Liopsetta. 



II. Mouth large, the supramaxillars extending more or 



less under eye, Ventrals lateral Hippoglossinjb. 



A. Caudal entire and produced behind. 

 0. Eyes on the right side. 



Scales ctenoid Hippo glossoides. 



Scales mostly cycloid Pomatopsetta. 



/3/?. Eyes sinistral ; interorbital area flat Chcenopsetta. 



AA. Caudal emarginated, produced laterally. 



Lateral line straight ; dorsal and anal regularly 



arched Reinhardtius. 



Lateral line arched in front ; dorsal and anal rays 



elevated at middle of fins Hippoglossus. 



III. Mouth large. Ventral fin of the dark side inserted on 



the ridge of the abdomen Rhombinje. 



o. Ventral fins very broad; dorsal fin with its 



anterior rays branched Lophopsetta. 



13. Ventral fins narrow ; dorsal fin with all rays 



simple Citharichthys. 



Subfamily PLEUUONECTIN^, Bon. 

 PSEUDOPLEURONECTES, Blkr. 



PSEPDOPLEURONECTES AMERICANUS Gill. 



Pleuronectes americanus Walb. Art. Gen. 113. Schn. 1.50. 

 Pleuronectes planus Mitch. 

 Flounder, Schn. 163. 

 Platessa plana Storer. 

 Platessa pusilla Dek. 

 Pseudopleuronectes planus Blkr. 

 Hub. — Eastern Coast. 



EUCHALARODUS, Gill, n. g. 



EnCHALARODUS PCTNAMI, Gill. 



D, 5.5-58. A. 39—40. C. 3. 6. 6. 3. P. 10—11. 

 Alt. : Long.=l ; 2 4-5ths— 2|.— Cap. 1 : 4^—4^. 



Ilab. — Salem, Mass. 



In a small collection of desired fishes, which I owe to the kindness of my 

 friend, Mr. F. W. Putnam, of Salem, Mass., were two specimens of this un- 

 described representative of the Pleuronectinae. The new species is generic- 

 ally distinct from any representative of the family hitherto found, not only of 

 the eastern American seas, but from any yet known, although it shares some 

 characters with a Russian fish, the Platessa dwinensis of Liljeborg,* (Pleuro- 

 nec'es dvinensis Gthr. 



* Bidrag til Nori-a KyssUnJs ooh Norriges faun;i, Ac, af Wilh. Liljeborg in Kongl. YetenRkaps- 

 Akadeinions IIaii(ilingir,for ar 1850, (Stockholm, 1851,) p. 30b, (256,) pi. xx., figs. 1. 2. 



"Maxilla utraqne gerie simplicidentium, forma iisfiem PI. vulgaris aact. siviilium, contif/uorum 



apiceqiie xqualiter iruncatoram. Spina analis adost. snbtus albida, Isevis." Tim italicized 



portion is repeated from Liljeborgs diagnosis. The relations of I'l. dwinensis, consequently, ap- 

 pear to be with the true PUuronectes. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



MYZOPSETTA, Gill. 



Myzopsetta febbuginea, Gill. 



Platessa ferruginea 5<. Rep. 41, pi. 2. 

 Pleuronectes ferrugineus Gthr., Cat. iv., 447. 

 Hab. — Massachusetts to New York. 



. LIMANDA, Gottache. 



LiMANDA HOSTRATA, Gill. 



Platessa rostrata H. R. St., Boston Joum. N. H. v., 268. 

 Myzopsetta rostrata Gill, Cat. 51. 



This species, referred with doubt to Myzopsetta in the "Catalogue of the 

 Fishes of the Eastern Coast," belongs probably to Limanda. 



Hah. — Labrador. 



LIOPSETTA, Gill. 



Tliis genus is proposed for the reception of the Platessa glabra of Storer, 

 well distinguished by its form and details of structiare, as well as its " per- 

 fectly smooth body," an almost anomalous character in the group of genera 

 to which it belongs. 



LlOPSETTA GLABRA, Gill. 



Platessa glabra St., Boston Proc. i., 130 ; ib. Mem. Am. Ac. viii., 393, pi. 31, 

 f. 1. 

 Hah . — Massachusetts . 



Subfamily HIPPOGLOSSINJE Gill. 



HIPPOGLOSSOIDES, Gottsche. 

 Citharus Reinhardt. 

 Drepanopsetta Gill. 



Misled by the ambiguity of the description by Fabricius of the lateral line 

 of Pleuronectes platessoides, — "Linea lateralis humilior, recta medietatem 

 oculorum spectat, ventriculum tamen arcu amhiens angulo aperturae branchialis 

 summo terminata," — I proposed for it the generic designation Drepanopsetta. 

 That species, however, possessing, like Hippoglossoides limandoides, a straight 

 lateral line, and otherwise agreeing so far as known, Drepanopsetta must be 

 considered as a mere synonyme of the latter. 



Hippoglossoides platessoides. Gill. 



Pleuronectes platessoides Fabr., F. G. 164. 

 Platessa platessoides St., Syn. 

 Citharus platessoides Reinh., Kr. 

 Drepanopsetta platessoides Gill, Cat. 

 Hah. — Greenland and Newfoundland, (Gill.) 



POMATOPSETTA Gill. 



POMATOPSETTA DENTATA Gill 



Platessa dentata Storer, Rep. 

 Hippoglossoides dentatus Gill, Gunther. 



This species has been erroneously identified with the Pleuronectes dentatus 

 of Mitchill, who described under that name a species of Chcenopsetta, distinct 

 from the one so named by Linnaeus. I propose, however, to retain as its 

 name Pomatopsetta dentata, since the Pleuronectes dentatus of Mitchill be- 

 longs to a widely different genus. 



This is slated by Dekay to be "the summer flounder, ^^ and to be "extremely 

 1864.] 




218' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Or 



common in the markets of New York." I doubt whether it inhabits the wa- 

 ters near the city. The specimens brought to the New York market are 

 caught "down east," according to the fishermen. Dekay's description is 

 evidently copied from Storer ; erroneous proportions assigned by the latter 

 being reproduced, and no figure is given. 



CH^NOPSETTA Gill. 



Ch^nopsetta ocellakis Gill. 



rieuronectes dentatus Milch., Trans, t. 390, (not L.) 

 Rhombus aquosus St. (not PI. aquosus Mitch).) 

 Platessa oblonga Dekay. 

 Platessa ocellaris Dekay. 

 Chsenopsetta oblonga Gill. 

 Pseudorhombus oblongus Gthr. , iv. 426. 

 " ocellaris Gthr., iv. 430. 



Monst. Pleuronectes melanogaster Mitch. 



Hah. — Maine to North Carolina. 



The verification on six individuals of the number of rays furnished the fol- 

 lowing results : 



The correctness of Giinther's very wide separation of the Platessa oblonga 

 and P. ocellaris of Dekay, after their union by his successors and country- 

 men, is, therefore, not evident. 



Ch^nopsetta dentata Gill. 



Pleuronectes dentatus L , i. 458. 

 Pseudorhombus dentatus Gthr., iv. 425. 

 Hab. — Charleston, S- C, Gordon, Girard. 



CH.EX0PSETTA OBLONGA Gill. 



Pleuronectes oblonga, Mitch., Trans, i. 391. 



Platessa quadrocellata Storer, Boston Pr. ii., 242, 1847. Mem. A. A. S. 

 viii. 397, pi. 31, f. 3. 



Mitchill well describes the coloration. " The uniformity of color is inter- 

 rupted by four dark spots on the back, two on each side of the lateral line. 

 One of the two on each side is about midway of the length, and the other near 

 the tail. The former are about three-quarters of an inch in diameter [in a spe- 

 cimen 15 X 6] ; the latter not so considerable.'' This description, therefore, 

 cannot be referrible to a variety of the common species. 



The radial formula of Mitchill, (D. 79. A. 59), is not applicable to this 

 Chcenopsetta, nor C. ocellaris, and is probably either the result of a typo- 

 graphical error, or carelessness in enumeration. The Chcenopsetta dentata 

 exhibits no trace of spots. 



REINHARDTIUS Gill, 1860. 

 Platysomatiobthys Blkr., 1862. 



Reiniiardtius hippoglossoides Gill. 

 Pleuronectes cynoglossus Fab., F. G. 163, sp. 118, 1780. 

 " hippoglossoides Walb., Art. Gen. 115. 1782. 



" pinguis Fa6., 1821. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



219 



Hippoglossus pinguis Reinh. 

 Reinhardtius hippoglossoides GUI, Cat. 50, 1860. 

 Platysomatichthys pinguis Blkr., 1862. 

 Hippoglossus grcenlandious Gthr., Cat. iv. 404. 



This species had hy common consent been identified with the Pleuronectes 

 cynoglossus of the Fauna Grcenlandica — afterwards named by Walbaum P. 

 hippoglossoides and by Fabricius P. pinguis — until the year 1862. In that year, 

 Dr. Giinther* contended that the ' ' Pleuronectes cynoglossus, Fabr. Faun. Groenl. 

 p. 163, or PL pinguis, Fabr. Vidensk, Selsks. Naturr. Math. Afhandl. i. 

 p. 43, tab. 2, f. 1, is probably identical with PL cynoglossus Gronoy. and Linn., 

 as the only difference of any importance appears to be that the Greenland fish 

 is said to have 72 — 74 rays in the anal fin. It is evident, however, from a 

 single glance at the figure, that it is generically different from Hippoglossus." 



The following characters are the most distinctive respectively assigned to 

 the Pleuronectes cynoglossus by Fabricius, and the species of the same name 

 by Giinther. It is necessary, however, to first premise that the true Hippo- 

 glossus vulgaris, as acknowledged by Reinhardt, &c., is first described, after 

 which follows the description of "P. cynoglossus," Fab., which is said to be 

 allied to the P. Hippoglossus, but to be smaller and more oblong. 



Pledkonectes cynoglossps Fab. 



" D. 96. P. 14. V. 6. A. 72. 



"Vix 26 unc. longitudinem et 8 

 unc. latitudinem superanus." 



Height : Length = 1 : 3^. 



"Utraque maxilla dentata, dentihus 

 curvis, acutis\ rarioribus tamen ac in 

 hippoglosso, &c. 



" f Hoc nota differre prcesertim vide- 

 tur a cynoglosso Gronovii in systemate 

 Linneano citato, cui tribuuntur dentes 

 obtusi et Cauda subrotunda, quod non 

 ita se habet in pisce groenlandico : hae- 

 sito igitur, an idem, quod musei gro- 

 noviani possessor determinare valet." 



" Cauda subintegra. f 



Pl. cynoglossus L., Gthr. 



"D. 102—117. A. 90—102." P. 

 (10) 11—12. V. 7. 

 Height : Length = 1 : 3— 2|. 



" Upper Jaw with a series of about 

 twenty closely-set, truncated, incisor- 

 like teeth on the blind side." 



Caudal unusually convex or round- 

 ed behind. 



" Lateral line straight, without 

 curve " or noticeable obliquity. 



" Line a lateralis corpori concolor a 

 cervice ad candam oblique progredi 

 tur." 



"Cetera ut in prsecedente (Hippo 

 glossus). 



As negative evidence, the absence, so far as known, of the true Pleuronectes 

 or Glyptocfphalus cynoglossus in the Greenland seas, whose Ichthyology is so 

 well known, is one of the strongest, especially as Fabricius states that his 

 species is comparatively abundant and readily caught. 



Equally explicit also is the description of the same species by Fabricius un- 

 der the new name of Pleuronectes pinguis, in the Transactions of the Royal 

 Danish Academy. J 



That description is indeed the amplification of the one in the "Fauna 

 Grcenlandica." The fins are described, the caudal as emarginated, § the rays 



* Gthr. Cat. iv. 450, under Pleuronectes cynoglossus. 



fin P. hippoglossus, "cauda fere Integra," in P. platessoides(Hippoglossoides platessoides) "mag- 

 na, lata, partim rotundata." 



t Det kongelige Danske Viderskabernes Selskabs. Nat. og Math. Afh. i. (1824,) p. 43, tab. 2. f.l. 



i Sporfinnen er bred, smalest Ted Boden og bredest i yderste Rand, hvor den ligesotn rundes 

 ina ad. 



1864.] 




2SI0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



D. 96—98, A. 72 — 74, P. 14 — 15, and the proportions and dentition are made 

 known in essentially the same terms. Furthermore, the scales are said to be 

 very small, and imbedded in the skin, which appears smooth and slimy to 

 the touch;* one of the eyes is nearly on the crown of the head,t and the 

 branchial arches have large and robust rakers, each with eight pectinations, 

 themselves divided at the tip.f 

 • As to the figure, it cannot assist identification, being a worthless caricature, 

 and, like that of the Hippoglossoides platessoides, representing a small mouth. 

 It might equally well serve as the representation of any Pleuronectoid, and is 

 as unlike the Glyptocephalus cynoglossus as any other species. 



From these remarks, it will be evident that I feel compelled to agree with 

 the several excellent naturalists who have identified the Fabrician fish with 

 a Pleuronectoid closely related to Hippoglossus, since every character which 

 distinguishes it from Glyptocephalus cynoglossus is shared with the species 

 under consideration. 



HIPPOGLOSSUS Cuv, 

 Hippoglossus americancs Gill. 

 Pleuronectes hippoglossus Mit. 

 Hippoglossus vulgaris Storer. 



This species is distinguished from its European congener, with which it has 

 hitherto been confounded, by all but Giinther, by its higher body, more ob- 

 lique mouth, &c. It is not clear why Dr. Giinther should consider it, even 

 with doubt, as identical with Reinhardtius hippoglossoides. The figure given 

 by Dekay represents the form and fins of a Hippoglossus, and the lateral line 

 is expressly said to be "arched over the pectorals." The species is, there- 

 fore, a typical Hippoglossus. 



Subfamily RHOMBIN^, Bon. 

 LOPHOPSETTA Gill. 



LOPHOPSETTA MACULATA Gill. 



Pleuronectes maculatus Mit. Rep. 1814, p. 9. 



" aquosus Mit. Phil. Tr. i. 389. 



Rhombus aquosus Cuv. R. A. 

 Hah. — Eastern coast generally. 



CITHARICHTHYS Blkr. 



CiTHABICHTHYS MICROSTOMUS Gill. 



D. 31. A. 58. C. 4. 6. 5. 3. 



Scales 42||. 



Hah. — New Jersey to North Carolina. 



Descriptions of new Genera and species of Eastern American PLEUBONEC- 



TOIDS. 



la a collection of rare fishes recently received through the kindness of 

 Mr. F. W. Putnam and from the Salem Institute, was a fine new generic type 

 of Pleuronectoids, distinguished by some remarkable characters. To make 

 this known, and also especially a new species of Citharichthys, obtained by Prof. 



* Overfladen bar vel paa begge Sider mango smaa Skjal ; men de sidde saa fast i Huden, at de 

 neppe lade sig Skjalue derfra, saa dun er glat at f51e paa fuld af Sliim. 



f Ojnene sidde begge paa hijjre Side, det ene af deni naesten paa Hovedets Isse. 



J Qjeellertie ero 4 med store og ctaerke hvide Klinger og miirkeroJe Fryndsor ; bag til bar hver 

 Klinge 8 Kamtakkor, bvilke atter for Knden have hver 2 gmaa skarpe Taender. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Baird and Dr. Stimpson at Beesley's Point, and by the latter and the author 

 at Beaufort, North Carolina, the present article is submitted. 



EUCHALARODUS,* Gill. 



Body oblong, ovate-rhombic, with the caudal peduncle moderate and uni- 

 form. 



Scales minute, distant, immersed, each one on the colored side with several 

 slender teeth behind directed outwards ; on the light side smooth or uniciliate. 



Lateral line straight, simple, continuous through a series of short tubes, 

 channelled along their posterior half. 



Head moderate, rhombic, depressed above the eye, with the snout nearly 

 rectilinear and the rostral area rhombic ; covered with minute scattered scales 

 extending along the interorbital area, and with an osseous ridge below the up- 

 per eye, and continued from its hinder angle backwards, where it is expanded, 

 and separated from an oblique bouy tubercule on the scapula. Eyes moderate, 

 approximated, even, chiefly in the anterior third of the head. Nostrils of the 

 dark side even longitudinally, the anterior next to the border of the snout; 

 the posterior between orbits in front; of the left side, on the left side of the 

 ridge, approximated ; the hinder close in front of the dorsal fin at its inner 

 angle; anterior nostrils tabular and nearly blind, minutely perforated near the 

 end ; posterior transversely fissured, with lips. Opercula well developed. 



3touth moderately small, with the cleft oblique (c. 45°) in front of eye ; the 

 jaws of the respective sides nearly equal ; the lower scarcely prominent, and 

 with a very obtuse, rounded chin. 



Lips moderate and simple ; the latter attached by a froenum at the left side 

 of the symphisis. 



Tongue slender, but well developed and free. 



Teeth uniserial, in an imperfect row on the dark side, moderate, moveable, 

 reclining inwards, compressed, capitate or constricted near the apex, and with the 

 apex itself blunt and emarginate, especially towards the symphisis; palate 

 smooth. 



Branchial apertures free below, closed above the operculum. 



Branchiostegal rays seven, exceptionally six. 



Dorsal fin yrith. its rays simple, in moderate number ; its origin above the 

 upper eye, rapidly increasing, and with its rays converging towards the poste- 

 rior third. 



Anal fin with its middle rays highest, but directed obliquely forwards, and 

 with no true spine in front. 



Caudal convex behind. 



Pectoral fins moderate, obliquely rounded behind. 



Ventral subbrachial, normally developed. 



The interior pharyngeal bones are united, oblong, triangular, with the sides 

 rectilinear ; the posterior margin broadly emarginate, (without sinus at the 

 junction) 6m< Mjowarc?? and trenchant ; behind and beneath sloping forwards, 

 and with a wide trihedral enlargement expanded downwards below at the mid- 

 dle. The teeth are blunt, paved, and on all the upper surface, except the de- 

 flected posterior marginal area. The lower pharyngeals are oblique, the mid- 

 dle largest; the first and second with two rows of molar teeth ; the third with 

 one. 



The branchial arches are provided on their external surfaces with soft, com- 

 pressed, unarmed, subunguiform rakers, decreasing from the first to the 

 fourth, oblong on the first, very short on the fourth, which alone has rudimen- 

 tary rakers on the internal surface. 



Such is the combination of characters, which distinguishes this remarkable 



1864.] 



* F.w, well ; A:*^«/'»f, loose ; iiws, tooth. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



newly-discovered type among the genera of Pleuronectoids. From the Ame- 

 ricaa genera Pseudoplmronectes, Blkr., Liopsetta, Gill, Myzopsetta, Gill, and Li- 

 manda, Gottsche, it is at least distinguished by its squamacion, oculo-scapular 

 ridge, nostrils, dentition and structure of the dorsal and anal fins. It is most 

 nearly related to Pleuronectes* with which it agrees in the free tongue, but 

 the more perfect union and the triangular form of the wholly united lower 

 pharyngeal bones, the want of an anal spine, and above all the moveable teeth 

 and scarcely perforate anterior nasal tubes will especially distinguish it, not 

 only from that genus, but from any other known one. So anomalous indeed are 

 the characters of dentition and nostrils, that only after I had felt each tooth 

 could I be convinced that they were really normally moveable, and that the 

 condition was not the effect of disease, an idea which, improbable as it was, 

 occurred to me. The remaining genera of the subfamily of Pleuronectinae — Pla- 

 tichthys, Grd., Farophrys, Grd., Lepidopsetta, Gill, Glyptocephahis, Gottsche, Mi- 

 crostomus, Gottsche, f Pleuronichthys, Grd., Ilypsopsetta, Gill, Heteroprosopon^ 

 Blkr., and Clidoderma, Blkr. — are equally or siill more distinct than those al- 

 ready mentioned.! 



EUCHALARODUS PuTNAMI, Gill. 



The height of the body enters between 2* and 2| times in the extreme 

 length. The head enters about 4J — 4J times in the same, and is not much 

 longer than the caudal fin. There are about 19 — 20 teeth in the upper jaw, on 

 the white side, and 9 or 10 on the dark ; in the lower 11 to 13 on the white, and 

 about 5 on the dark side. The height of the dorsal fin, at its highest portion, 

 which is at or near the thirty-second ray, is little less than a seventh of the 

 total length ; the longest anal rays, from the thirteenth to fifteenth, equal or 

 excel those of the dorsal. The pectoral fin enters about 6^ — 6J times in the 

 length, and attains to the vertical from the twenty-third to twenty-seventh 

 dorsal ray and eighth or ninth anal one. The ventral fia is inserted with its 

 axil at the vertical of the upper axil of the pectoral, and reaches to the second 

 or third ray of the anal ; its length enters 9j — 9f times in the total. 



D. 65— 58. A. 39— 40. C. 3. 6. 6. 3. P. (3— 4. 5. 2.) 10— II V. 6. 



The color is dark brown : sometimes (in the younger) the vertical fins are 

 clouded with darker. 



Two specimens, presented by F. W. Putnam, Esq., the Secretary of the Essex 

 Institute, of Salem, Mass., have furnished the material for this description. Both 



• Pleuronecte.*, (Art.) Blkr. Verslagen en Mededeelingen der koninklijke Akademle von Welen- 

 schappen (Amsterdam) xiii, 1862, 426 — 427. 



f Microstomus, Gottsclie, lS35=CynicogIossus, Bon, Fauna Ttalica Fasc, xix, 1837, (sub Plot. 

 ^s«er)=Cynoglossa, Bon, 1846, Ac. Microstomus is perhaps sufficiently distinct from MCcrosionui ; 

 if not, can Cynicoglogms be used f Bonaparte, in his enumeration of the subgenera of Pleuro- 

 ntctes, after the definition of Platessa, }<ave that of Oynicoglmxus. " Secondo e Oi/nicofflosxtu nob. 

 che come il I'l. cynoglossus L. ha la linea laterale retta, la bocca piccola, li denti come qnello di 

 eopra. \ PlaUssa] mil \a, masce.lle uguali, con lahhra turgide, e I'ano sema spina.'' Bonaparte has 

 simply followed Nilsson in the erroneous identification of Pleuronectes micr<Ki'x>hnlns with PI. cy- 

 noglossus, L. As the definition of his genus does not, however, apply to the latter and does to the 

 former, it may perhaps be connecLed with it, notwithstanding the specific mention of the type. 



I am aware that an anal spine has been recently denied to Glypiocephalus cynoglossus, but it is 

 quite distinct in the specimen seen by me, and its presence has been admitted by other natnral- 

 i»ta. On the other hand, a prominent spine has been attributed in one place to Microstomus, and 

 denjcd in another ; the latter viow is sustained by naturalists generally. I am also aware that 

 the lateral line has been said to be strongly curved, but a very slight curvature only seems to be 

 evident in nature. 



J Dr. QUnther has referred to the group of narrow-mouthed Pleuronectoids with "the upper 

 eye not in advance ot the lower," four very well marked generic types — Psammntiiscus, Amnwtrelis, 

 Khombosolea, and PtUorarhphiis — which evidently have no afiinity with Kuc)uilarodus. Their sys- 

 tematic position even is for me doubtful, and some of them at least — especially Peltorhamphtis — 

 appear to belong to the family of Soleoidffi. As however the form, the distinction or not exter- 

 nally of the opercular bones, the structure of the m luth, the development of the branchial aper> 

 tures, tc, have not be«n made known with sufficient precision, no definite opiniim can be formed. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



were caught, with others, by 0. A. Putnam, Esq., in the harbor of Salem, in 

 the month of January, 1858. To the able ichthyologist to whom we are in- 

 debted for our knowledge of the species, we dedicate it in token of friendly 

 and scientific appreciation. 



The next species appears to belong to a genus already established by Dr. P. 

 Von Bleeker, but differs very decidedly from the known species. 



CITHARICHTHYS Blkr., Othr. 



CiTHARICHTHYS MICROSTOMUS, GUI. 



The height of the body enters about 2f times (-30 — -37) in the extreme 

 length ; that of the caudal peduncle about eleven times. The head forms a 

 fifth of the length, is rather abbreviated, scarcely sinuous above the eyes, blunt 

 at the snout, which scarcely exceeds a seventh of the head's length, and the 

 rostral area is rhombic, and not higher than long. The eyes are even ; the 

 longitudinal diameter contained about 33 times (.05^ in the head's length. 

 The mouth is rather small, the length of the upper jaw only equalling a quar- 

 ter of the length, and that of the lower two-fifths of the head's length. The 

 teeth are very small, and close together ; larger in front. The dorsal com- 

 mences above the front of the orbit, and is highest, and convergent near the 

 fortieth ray, which equals about the tenth of the total length ; the anal is 

 highest at about the twenty-fifth ray, and is high or even higher than the dor- 

 sal. The caudal is rounded behind, and forms about a sixth of the length. 

 The pectoral fins are unequally developed, that of the dark side being pro- 

 longed, and contained only 6§ times in the total length, while that of the white 

 side only equals a tenth of the snme; the rays are all simple. The ventral fins 

 are also unequally developed, the right being on the abdominal ridge at its 

 origin, rather in advance of the opercular margin, and with its longest rays 

 contained about fourteen times in the total length ; stretched backwards, it ex- 

 tends to the second anal ray; the fin on the white side is more advanced, 

 wider, and its rays longer, contained less than twelve times in the length, and 

 extends backward to nearly the third anal ray. 



D. 81. A. 58. C. 4. 6. 5. 3. P. 10. V. 6. 



The scales are large, angular behind, covered with smaller ones, especially 

 near the point of junction of contiguous ones, where alone they are developed 

 on the blind side; the scales of the eyed side are mostly ainutely ciliated be- 

 hind, unarmed however near the lateral line, the scales of which last are quad- 

 rate and mostly covered ; the scales of the blind side are less angular behind 

 and unarmed. The lateral line runs through about forty-two scales, while of 

 longitudinal rows there are ten above and fourteen below the lateral line. 



The color is uniform reddish brown. 



A single specimen, little more than three inches long, was first obtained by 

 Prof. Baird at Beesley's Point. It is especially distinguished from its California 

 relative, 0. sordida, by the short snout, small mouth and large scales; 0. sor- 

 dida having about fifty-eight scales pierced by the lateral line, and eighteen 

 rows above the lateral line. Notwithstanding this great disparity in the size 

 of the scales and mouth, C. microstomus appears to agree in most respects with 

 the Californian fish, as well as generically with Citharichthys spilopterus of Giin- 

 ther, aspecies inhabiting the Gulf of Mexico. As the name Citharichthys was 

 introduced a short time before that of Orthopsetta, proposed for the Psettichthys 

 sordidus, and was framed for a species related to that type, that name must b« 

 adopted if the 0. sordida is not regarded as generically distinct- 



I may here remark that, although I have referred the Platcssa quadrocularis of 

 Storer to the genus Chxnopsetta, (C. oblotiffa), it is possible that it may not 

 truly belong to that genus, as the dorsal and anal fins are represented as in- 



1864.] 




224 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



creasing backwards till near their ends, and the anterior dorsal rays are free 

 at their ends ; but as the species agrees so closely in other external characters, 

 I feel compelled to retain it in that genus for the present at least. 



In this connection, I may also mention a species found at Pensacola, which 

 exhibits several characters in common with the species referred to, but repre- 

 sents a distinct genus closely related to Chscnopsetta, Paralichthys and Pseudo- 

 rhombus ; the naso-dorsal side of the rhombic outline is very convex ; the supra- 

 ocular region depressed ; the interorbial area formed by a narrow, scaleless 

 ridge; the caudal peduncle short; the scales ctenoid, and the dorsal and anal 

 fins respectively highest, and convergent far behind and at nearly ths same 

 vertical. The species has a height of little less less than half the extreme 

 length ; the head almost a fourth, and the caudal almost a fifth. The first fia 

 rays are the longest and filiform, progressively increasing, and the fin itself 

 commences at a vertical between the orbit and pupil. The rays of the dorsal 

 (70) converge towards the fiftieth ; those of the anal (56) towards the thirtieth. 



The color is reddish brown, with four ocellated spots larger than the eye ; 

 the first above the longer declining portion of the falciform arch of the lateral 

 line ; the three posterior forming the angles of a triangle ; the anterior two mid- 

 way between the snout and caudal margin, and the posterior on the lateral 

 line. It may be named Ancylopsetta quadrocellatus. 



On the Characters of the higher Groups of BEPTILIA SQTJAMATA— and 

 especially of the DIFLOGLOSSA. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



Since it is only by an attentive consideration of the peculiarities of organ- 

 ized beings that their relationships in time present and past can be deter- 

 mined, the more complete that examination the more certain will our conclu- 

 sions be. In the course of preparation of systematic work, the great need of 

 well established bases is often felt, and nowhere more urgently than among 

 the Reptiles. The following abstract, presenting some new views in this de- 

 partment, have been taken from my MSS., as exhibiting some of the stronger 

 points among the multitudinous variations of the reptilian skeleton. 



Prof. Johannes Miiller* has given us the best characters for distinguishing 

 the Ophidia and Lacertilia, viz. : — The former having the ali- and orbito-sphe- 

 noid regions osseous — the latter membranous ; there being one suspensorium 

 for the quadratum in the first, two in the second. It is true he says Acontias 

 forms an exception, having but one suspensorium, but I have seen the second 

 in a specimen prepared by Herr Will, of Munich, and Prof. Peters showed it 

 to me in a Berlin specimen. Anelytrops, a genus nearly allied to Typhlo- 

 saurus, possesses both, well developed. Aniella, however, appears to consti- 

 tute a real exception to the rule, having but one suspensorium, thus resem- 

 bling the Ophiosaurii or Amphisbaenia : it resembles the latter so in its elon- 

 gate temporal, continuous with the parietal, the downward prolongation of 

 the latter bone and its close union with the occipital sclerotome, as to connect 

 them closely with the Lacertilia. Ttie true hiatus in the series of Squamata 

 is, in my opinion, to be found between the Ophiosauri and Tortricina. The 

 characters of the skeleton remaining up to the present time, by which Lacer- 

 tilia and Ophidia may be distinguished, are as follows : 



Lacertilia. Ophidia. 



Continuity of the parietal and sphenoid Continuity of parietal and sphenoid 



walls interrupted. walls complete. 



Rami of the mandible united by suture. Rami united by ligament. 



From the centre of multiplicity of forms of typical Lacertilia, we can pursue 



* Tledemann aad Treviranus Zeit8chr. f. Physiologie, ir. p. 233. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



three series — one toward the serpents by Amphisbsenia, one to the partially 

 degraded type of the Geccos, and lastly through the highest or acrodont ae- 

 ries, to Chamaeleo on the one hand and Hatteria on the other. 



In the first case the prolonged development of the superior temporal is fol- 

 lowed by a deourving of the parietal border, the closer attachment of the occi- 

 pital sclerotome, and shortening of the squamosal and mastoid. Finally, the 

 temporal, with the pieces adjoining anteriorly, begin to restrict a foramen 

 ovale, the orbito-sphenoid is developed, and the articular and angular pieces 

 of the mandible are represented by but one piece : the columella disappears. 

 In the last direction, the temporal is not elongate, nor is there any tendency 

 toward a more complete closure of the cranial cavity. The inferior or ? pet- 

 rous wing of the temporal is directed inwards instead of forwards ; the parietal 

 fontanelle does not diminish, and the premaxillaryboneis seen to form a regu- 

 larly decreasing series. The mesosternum and columella diminish in length 

 and disappear, and the spleuial appears smaller and smaller to extinction. 

 The subarticular strengthens the inner rather than the outer wall of the man- 

 dible, and the external direction of the coronoid is reversed. The type of 

 Hatteria doubles the premaxillary, and exhibits the vertebrse amphicoelian. 



In approaching the Geccos, the bones of the palate are seen to be thinner 

 and more expanded, and the articular piece of the mandible is lost. In the 

 fall type the ossification is of the lightest description, and the fascial and 

 basement membranes often present incomplete deposits of bony tissue ; thus 

 the parietal and sternal fontanelles disappear. The parietals are not, as 

 usual, united, and there is a dimunition (in Uroplates nearly obliteration), 

 of the median or basilar segment of the occipital condyle. There is a temporal 

 ala peciiliar to this suborder. 



The following is a synopsis of the prevailing characters of the suborders : * 



ACRODONTA. 



Shanks of teeth compressed, most always between two alveolar walls. 



Coronoid bone produced posteriorly, on outside of ramus. 



Articular present separate from angular. Splenial reduced, more frequently 



wanting. 

 Subarticular small on outer, much prolonged on inner face of ramus. 

 Groove from splenial to mental foramina not closed over Meckel's cartilage. 

 Premaxillary nearly always separated from vomer by maxillaries. 

 Pterygoids not touching body of sphenoid. 

 Frontal not arching over the olfactory lobes. 

 Parietal single, receiving the gomphosis of loosely attached occipital segment 



internally. 

 Temporal with longitudinal wing only ; superior plate not produced beyond 



the arched body. 

 Orbitosphenoid wanting. 

 Suspensoria two, arches complete. 

 RhijJtoglossa and Pachyglossa. 



NYCTISAURA. 

 Shanks of teeth cylindrical, attached to the inner side of an alveolar wall. 

 Coronoid bone produced anteriorly and posteriorly. 

 Articular wanting. 



Subarticular largely developed exteriorly, not interiorly. 

 Splenial elongate ; Meckel's cartilage covered betweea the splenial and mental. 



foramina. 

 Premaxillary broad, in contact with vomer. 



* Not a few of the characters here nottd are pointed out in speeial CMea in Staaniua' most ex- 

 cellent Zootomie der Amphibien. 



1864.] 15 




2*26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pterygoids not touching sphenoid. 



Frontal arching under olfactory lobes. 



Parietal double ; attachment of occipital segment very open ; gomphosia 



internal. 

 Temporal with anterior vertico-oblique wing ; superior plate produced beyond 



arched body, forming abutment for columella. 

 Orbitosphenoid wanting. Arches incomplete. Suspensoria two. 

 Vertebrae usually ampicoelian. 

 Tongue papillose. 

 Nijctisaura. 



PLEURODONTA. 



Shanks of teeth cylindrical, attached to inner side of one alveolar wall. 



Coronoid bone produced anteriorly, not posteriorly. 



Articular, when present, separate from angular, (except in one tribe.) 



Subarticular little developed on inner, usually much on outer face of ramus. 



Groove for Meckel's cartilage nearly always more or less completely closed. 



Spleuial nearly always elongate. 



Premaxillarj in contact with vomers, (with two or three exceptions.) 



Pterygoids not touching sphenoid. 



Parietal single, receiving gomphosis of the usually slightly attached occipital 



internally. 

 Temporal with inferior longitudinal wing only, columella abutting on parietal 



or incomplete. Suspensoria nearly always two. 

 Orbitosphenoid wanting ; vertebrae procoelian. 



Iguania, Diploglossa, Thecaglossa, Leptoglossa, TyphlophthaJmi. 



OPHIOSAURI. 



Coronoid bone little developed externally, covering articular internally. 



Articular united with angular. 



Subarticular little visible externally ; elongate internally. 



Splenial small ; Meckel's cartilage covered on the inner side. 



Premaxillary well developed, in contact with vomer. 



Pterygoids in close contact with sphenoid. 



Frontal under-arching olfactory lobes. 



Orbitosphenoid present. 



Parietal single, with a close articulation to occipital by external gomphosis. 



Temporal without wing, continuous with parietal. No columella. 



Arches wanting. Suspensorium, one. 



Vertebrse procoelian ; tongue scaly. 



AmphishiBnia. 



The characters of the tribes and the families embraced by them are a« 

 follows : 



ACRODONTA. 



Rhiptoglossa. 

 Parietal arch elevated, formed of squamosal and parietal ; latter not extend- 

 ing to mastoid. 

 Vertebrae procoelian. 

 Columella wanting. 



(Clavicle and mesosternum wanting. Xiphisternal without fontanelle. 

 No angular process of mandible. Splenial none. 

 Tongue papillose ; terminal portion projectile on glosso-hyoideum. 

 Toes short, opposable in two and three. Chamaeleontidn 



Pachyglossa. 

 Parietal arch not elevated, composed of mastoid and parietal in contact. 

 Columella present, (sometimes very short.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 227 



Clavicle proximally simple ; mesostemum anchor-shaped. Xiphisternnm 



with two, sometimes one fontanelle. 

 Mandible with angular process. 

 Tongue papillose, simple. 

 Toes not opposable, all directed forwards. Agamidae, Hatteriidae. 



PLEURODONTA. 

 Iguania. 

 Temporal bone superior plate not developed beyond arched body. 

 Frontal not under-arching olfactory lobes. 

 Arches complete ; not covered by dermoossification. 

 Articular and angular separate. Dentary produced posteriorly, not covering 



coronoid. Meckel's cartilage wholly or in part covered. 

 Premaxillary single. Suspensoria two. 

 Clavicle with simple proximal ends.* 

 Mesosternum anchor-shaped 

 Tongue papillose, simple. Anolidae, Iguanidae. 



DiPLOGLOSSA. 



Temporal bone superior plate developed beyond arched body. 

 Frontal not under-arching olfactory lobe. 

 Arches complete, temporal fossa covered by dermoossification. 

 Articular and angular separate. 



Dentale not produced far posteriorly. Meckel's cartilage covered. 

 Premaxillary single. Suspensoria two. 

 Clavicle with simple proximal ends. 



Mesosternum cruciform or rarely simple. No Xiphisternal fontanelle. 

 Tongue papillose, sheathed at tip. Supranasal plates numerous. 

 Anguidse, Gerrhonotidae, Helodermidae. 



Thecaglossa. 



Temporal bone superior plate developed beyond arched body. 



Frontal under-arching olfactory lobes. 



Arches not complete ; fossa not covered by dermoossification. 



Articular and angular separate. 



Dentary short, not developed posteriorly. Meckel's cartilage exposed in its 



groove. 

 Premaxillary single. Suspensoria two. 

 Clavicle with simple proximal end. 

 Mesosternum anchor-shaped. 

 Tongue smooth, sheathed at base. Va r a n i d ae. 



Leptoglossa. 

 Temporal bone superior plate developed beyond arched body. 

 Frontal with a larger or smaller ridge on each side of olfactory lobes ; no 



arch. 

 Lateral arches complete. 

 Articular and angular separate. 

 Dentary, lower posterior process often short, often long. Groove for Meckel's 



cartilage mosAly overarched. Suspensoria two. 

 Premaxillary single or double, without exterior marginal foramen. 

 Clavicles proximally much dilated, usually perforate or enclosing a foramen. 

 Mesosternum cruciform ; not more than one pair of supranasal plates. 

 Tongue squamous or obliquely plicate. 



* The transverse limb of the mesosternum, extending to tb« angle of the cUviole, gir«8 an tp' 

 pearance in some of the Basiliseinse of a proximal foramen. 



1864.] 




22S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



« Premaxillary simple. P Premaxillary double. 



Teidae. I Scincidae. 



Lacertidae. | Sepsidae. 



Chalcididse. 

 Ecpleopidse. 



Ttphlophthalmi. 



Temporal bone superior plate elongate. 

 Arches incomplete or wanting. 



Articular and angular confluent. Suspensoria one or two. 

 Dentary, inferior process elongate. 

 Premaxillary single or double. 



Clavicles very slender, transverse rudimentary or wanting. 

 Meaosternum and ottier sternal pieces wanting. 



Tongue squamous or papillose, simple. — A nelytropidse, Acontiidie, 

 Aniellidse. 

 Of the families here proposed or adopted, the A n ol id ae deserves first men- 

 tion. Its peculiarities are — want of articular bone ; absence of xiphisternal 

 fontanelle ; presence of abdominal ribs ; in these points agreeing with the 

 Nyctisaura or GecconidaB, and differing from the mass of the Iguanidae. Still, 

 among the latter Polychrus forms a close connection, wanting the xiphisternal 

 fontanelle, and having the abdominal ribs. 



A n g u i d ae. — This family I have constructed from fragments of the old Zonu- 

 ridae and Scincidae ; agreeing with Peters in referring the Old World repre- 

 sentatives of the former to the Lacertidae, and those of the New to the neigh- 

 borhood of Heloderma. From the Scincidae I have taken the New World 

 Diploglossinae, finding them possessed of the same peculiar characters which 

 associate the Pseudopus with Gerrhonotus and Heloderma. The families rep- 

 resented by these types differ as follows. None of them have the dilated 

 maxillary laminae of the Scincidae : 



A foramen (often large) from nasal meatus to palate on 

 each side of premaxillary. Internasal plate large, 

 transverse. Two or more pairs of supranasals.* 

 Head shielded behind. Mesosternum cruciform... Anguidae. 

 No premaxillary foramen. Two or more pairs of supra- 

 nasals. Internasal plate small or wanting. Head 



scaled behind. Mesosternum cruciform GerrhonotidaB, 



No premaxillary foramen. Head tubercularly scaled. 



Mesosternum simple H elod e r m i dae. 



There are four sub-groups among the genera of Anguidae, viz. : Opheosau- 

 rinae, with the anterior limb of the mesosternum very short or wanting ; the 

 dorsal scales in cross rows and a lateral fold ; genera Dopasia, Pseudopus, 

 Opheosaurus and Opheodes : Opheomorinae without side fold, and with trans- 

 verse dorsal rows, Opheomorus : Anguinae with shortened mesosternum, 

 quincuncial dorsal scales and no lateral fold — Anguis : Diploglossinae without 

 lateral fold, with elongate anterior limb of mesosternuni and quincuncial 

 dorsal scales, containing Onida, Panolopus, Sauresia, (= Embryopus Weinl.) 

 Diploglossus, Microlepis and Camilia : (in C. monotropis Pet. I have ob- 

 served an apparent exception to the rule of the retractility of the end of the 

 tongue in this tribe. )+ 



Of the Gerrhonotidae I know but the two genera, Barissia and Gerrhonotus. 

 Xenosaurus Pet. resembles the succeeding family rather than this ; I have not 

 had the opportunity of seeing its sternum. 

 Among the Leptoglossae with a simple premaxillary, the Teidae only have 



* Except Opheomonia. 

 fVid. Proc. A N. S. 1862, 188. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 229 



not the temporal fossae roofed over by ossified, or much thickened dermal 

 plates. The families may be thus compared : 



«. Premaxillary single. 

 Temporal fossae not roofed ; tongue squamous papillose 



in oblique series, or squamous. Nostril in plate 



or suture : always a xiphisternal fontanelle Teidae. 



Temporal fossae roofed ; tongue wholly or partially with 



oblique plicae projecting forwards and inwards ; 



nostril on intersquamal suture Lacertidae. 



Temporal fossae roofed ; tongue squamous ; nostril in 



single plate Ecpleopidae . 



/?. Premaxillary double. 

 Temporal fossa roofed. Tongue squamous. Nostril in 



a single plate; palatine maxillary laminae dilated ; 



rarely a xiphisternal fontanelle Scincidse. 



Temporal fossa roofed ; tongue squamous. Nostril in 



notch of rostral ; palatine maxillary laminae often 



dilated Sepsidae . 



I do not know the complete characters of the Chalcidae, but they are very 

 near the Lacertidae. The American Lepidophyma, Xantusia and Cricosaura 

 enter the Lacertidae, as here defined, as I have failed to find characters which 

 separate them from this Old World family. The affinity to Zonurus, pointed 

 out by Dumeril, is manifested in the double parietals of the first two. Mancus 

 and Gerrhosaurus enter the same family in all points — though the tongue is 

 partially scaly — but in Zonurus there are two important exceptions in which 

 it approaches Gerrhonotus, viz : the tongue is papillose, and the posterior 

 limb bounding the clavicular foramen is wanting. Tretioscincus* enters the 

 Ecpleopidae, but presents the peculiarity of a simple clavicle. In a species of 

 Brachypus I find the clavicle not always perforate, and in Trachysaurus the 

 foramen is also wanting, although the dilatation is extensive. All these 

 families, except the first, are known to possess serpentiform types ; such 

 are among the true Seines, Siaphus, Hemiergis, Campsodactylus, etc. 

 The last is a degraded form of Mabuia : in the second the articular and 

 subarticular bones appear to be united : the first is, in all respects, typical of 

 the family in its proper characters, as illustrated by the species at hand, 



S. sira p lexf mihi. 

 Pygopus and Lialis, with simple premaxillary, enter this tribe and are 

 perhaps types of separate families. Whether Aprasia belongs in this or the 

 next is as yet a question ; it has some points of resemblance to Aniella.J 



•T. bifasciatus, He.Uropus Dum. T. castanicterus Cope. 



t S. 8 i m p 1 e X. Nasals as high as broad, not mectiug above rostral : internasal much broader than 

 long, in contact with prefienal. *"rontonasal.« longest transversely, with an acute Inner angle, not 

 touching in front of frontal. Latter elongate cuufiform, three-sided in front. Supraorbitals 

 four, posterior small; frontoparietals large, extensively in contact, occipitals large, long, nearly 

 entirely separated by the interoccipiial (which is long as the iroutiil) and bounded exteriorly by a 

 long exoocipital. 5 superior la))ials. Transverse symphyseal and mental: 1st pair infralabials in 

 contact, and two following pairs very elongate transversely. Twenty rows scales round the iiiiildle 

 of the l)ody, dorsal larger; four rows broader on nape. Three toes on anterior, ri'me on posterior 

 extremity. Color above steel brown, below dirty yellow ; a yellowish occipitonuchal collar. 

 From end of muzzle to vent 3 in. 6 1. Vent to end of tail 4 in. 6 1. Hub. Australia. 



J An allied genus, which will compel the union of the Apiasiidas with the Pygopidse, is Pletholax 

 mihi, with the subjoined characters : — Posterior extremities, no preanal pores. Two pair of su- 

 pranasals, nares between the anterior and first superior lahjal ; one transverse frontonasal. Ros- 

 tral oval, prominent. All the scales imbricated, with two keels and a groove bet^veen; no larger 

 abdominal series. P. gracilis is Pygnpus gracilis, Schlegel, (Mus. Leyden) to whom I am in- 

 debted for the opportunity of making this description. Occipitals broad, acuminate, as long as 

 frontal and frontonasal. Three supraorbitals, posterior largest, Temporal scales largi", keeleil. 

 Gulars keeled ; one very large symphyseal followed on each side by two transverse labials, and 

 these by two longitudinal narrow labials and two large iufralabia's. Sixteen rows of scales. 

 Pale brown, a paler median dorsal band, two scales wide, bordered With dark brown. I'rom South 

 West Australia. 



1864.] 




230 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



The families of the last tribe differ as follows : , 



a. Two suspensoria ; nostril in the rostral shield. Tongue squamoas. 

 Eye concealed by epidermis ; occipital segment loosely 



attached. No frontal under-arch An el y tr opid se .* 



Eye distinct ; occipital closely articulated ; two premax- 



illaries Acontiidse. 



/?. One suspensorim ; nostril in a nasolabial plate ; tongue papillose. 

 Eye distinct; occipital closely articulated ; one premax- 



illary ; an inferior frontal arch Anielli dse. 



In the first family enter Typhlosaurus, Feylinia, (much the same is Typhlo- 

 scincus) and Anelytrops. In these the columella is well developed. In Ane- 

 lytrops there is a long squamosal articulated to the side of the parietal, as in 

 Rhineiira and Cephalopeltis, the premaxillary is single, and palatine laminae 

 of the maxillary are dilated. The spleniomental groove is open. There are 

 two slender clavicles united medially and giving insertion to the thoracic 

 hsemapoyhyses. These, according to Rathke, are present, but not in contact 

 in Acontias, and Peters and Stannius failed to find them in Typhlosaurus. 

 The pelvis I find to be represented by an oblique bone at the extremities of two 

 pairs of ribs on each side of the vent. 



The remarkable genus Aniella lacks the squamosal and columella, and has 

 a single premaxillary. The parietal is continuous with the superior plate of 

 the temporal, and is much decurved toward the sphenoid ; the frontal en- 

 closes the olfactory lobes below ; these characters are the most amphisbaenian 

 in the order. There are small pre- and postfrontal bones, and a slender ligamen- 

 tous postorbital arch. I have as yet found no sternal pieces, and the splenio- 

 mental groove is closed, as in Acontias. 



The Ophidian suborders may be briefly summed up as follows : 



«. Mastoid part of cranial walls r coronoid bone present. 



I. No ectopterygoid. No prefontal. Maxillary without 



alveolar ridges or malar process. Radiments of 



pelvis without pubis Scolecophidia. 



II. No ectopterygoid. Prefontal present. Maxillary with 



alveolar ridge and malar process. Rudiments of 



pelvis with pubis CATODONTA.f 



ni. An ectopterygoid, and prefrontal. Maxillary with 

 alveolar ridges and teeth, horizontal, in contact 



with prefrontal Toetricina. 



0. Rudimentary posterior extremities TortricidJB. 



00. No rudiments of extremities Ur o p e 1 1 i d ae. 



aa. Mastoid not entering cranial walls, projecting. Ectopterygoid present. 

 IV. 0. maxillare horizontal, produced to premaxillare, 



provided with solid teeth. No rudiments of pelvis. Asixka. 

 a. Coronoid present ; rudimental posterior extremities. 

 Coronoid and articular very elongate-slender. No 



postorbital or supraorbitals ; premaxillary teeth. Xenopeltidse. 

 Coronoid and articular short ; post- and supraorbitals 



and premaxillary teeth Pythonidse.J 



Coronoid and articular short ; postorbitals ; no supra- 

 orbitals or premaxillary teeth . Boidse. 



8. Coronoid bone wanting ; no rudimental extremities. 



* Typhlinidse Gray. The same Typhline is preoccupied. 



t Vid. the important discovery of the peivis by Peters, Monatdbo, Berlin Ac, 1863, 270. 

 X Loxocemus enters this family rather than the next. Giintlier is right in assigning premax- 

 illary teeth ; posterior extremities, absent in bis young specimen, are present in adults. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



b. 0. postorbitale produced over the superciliary 



region AclirochordidaB.* 



bb. Postorbitale forming the hinder border of the orbit only. Th« 



families of this group have not yet been defined. 



V. 0. maxillare horizontal, thickened, and not reaching 



premaxillare anteriorly, in contact with prefront- 

 ale, bearing a perforate and usually grooved tooth Peotebogi.ypha.. 

 t. Caudal hypapophyses bifid. Neural spines and 

 pleurapophyses short. 



Postorbitals wanting ; no splenio-mental groove E 1 a p i d ». 



Poatorbitals present Naj idae. 



0. Caudal hypapophyses simple. 

 Neural spines and pleurapophyses elongate. A post- 

 frontal bone Hy d ro ph i dae. 



VI. 0. maxillare vertical, attached to prefontale by a gin- 



glymus, and to the ectopterygoid without imbri- 

 cation. Fang very seldom grooved Solenoglypha. 



Embracing the families Atractaspidse, Causidse, Viperidse and 

 C ro tali dae. For characters vid. Pr. A. N. Sci., 1859, 334. 



On a Blind SILTJSID, from Pennsylvania. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



Animals deprived of the sense of sight are generally known inhabitants of 

 subterranean areas of earth or water, although representing by their general 

 structure, zoological groups most diverse. Among fish, two blind species of 

 the Cod family are found in the caves of Cuba. The blind fish of the Mam- 

 moth Cave, with its sightless relative, the Typhlichthys, belong to a family 

 represented by an eyed genus in the ditches of Carolina. Among the Catfish 

 or Siluridse there are sundry genera of a variety of form, in which the eyes 

 are wanting or concealed by the skin. These are mostly South American or 

 East Indian species, those of the latter country, of the Akysis type, approach 

 nearest to our eyed Catfish of North America, according to the system of 

 Bleeker. For a knowledge of the first genus of blind Silurid from our country, 

 I am indebted to my friend Jacob Stauffer, Secretary of the Linnaean Society 

 of Lancaster, an ardent explorer of the Zoology and Botany of Southern Penn- 

 sylvania, and who has furnished me with many valuable notes and specimens. 

 This fish, of which specimens have been taken in the Conestoga creek, a tribu- 

 tary of the Susquehannah, is simply a blind representative of the ordinary type 

 of Silurids, characteristic of North America, and is not to be arranged with the 

 exotic grouDS. It, therefore, enters the group Ictaluri, of Gill, with our genera 

 Ameiirus, Ilopladelus, Noturus and Ictalurus, possessing especially the charac- 

 ters of the first. The genus may be called Gronias, and be explained by the 

 following diagnosis : — Head broad, depressed. Supraoccipital bone posteriorly 

 free. Branchiostegal membrane with ten rays. Anterior dorsal spine stoUt, 

 posterior fin separated from caudal. Ventrals with eight rays. Eyes rudi- 

 mental, covered by the corium. Natatory bladder present. 



The species has the head broader posteriorly, and the anal fin shorter than 

 in the allied species of Ameiirus. It may be called G. nigrilabris. The 

 muzzle is flat and the jaws equal ; the width across the occipital region is 

 equal to the length from the end of the muzzle to the apex of the occipital 

 crest ; width below equal from the axilla of the pectoral to the base of the 

 ventral fin. From end of muzzle to dorsal spine equal from latter to middle 

 of adipose. Length of head four and one-fifth times in total length. Max- 



1864.] 



* Vid. Pr. A. N. S., 1860, 75. 




^2IK2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



illary baibels extend three-fourths the distance to the opercolar border ; outer 

 (longer) mentals scarcely beyond middle brauchiostegal angle. Height of body 

 at base of dorsal equal three-fourths length of head. End of pectoral oppo- 

 site posterior border of first dorsal, its spinous ray serrate ; ventrals not 

 reaching anal. Basis of anal terminating a little behind base of adipose ; 

 length of caudal peduncle below, equal length of pectoral spine. Rays D. 

 1—7 ; P. 1—9 ; V. 8 ; A. 18 ; C. 16. Spine of dorsal smooth. Caudal openly 

 emarginate, the emargination much above the middle rays, giving the highest 

 a short lobate outline. Lateral line straight to scapular angle, mouth of 

 axillary mucous duct distinct. Length of head 2 in. 8 1. ; width below 2 in. 

 2 1. : from muzzle to base of ventrals 4 in. 31.; to base of caudal 7 in. 9 1. ; 

 length of caudal 1 in. 7 1. ; another specimen is about ten inches in length. 

 The color of the upper surfaces, tail, fins, barbels and under jaw is black ; 

 sides varied with dirty yellow , abdomen and thorax yellowish-white. J. 

 StaufFer informs me that the dark pigment of the skin of this animal comes 

 off upon the hands in handling it. A specimen died in twenty minutes after 

 capture, when put in water, though uninjured ; the Ameiiri, like other Cat- 

 fish, will live for many hours after complete removal from their element. It 

 is occasionally caught by fishermen, and is supposed to issue from a subter- 

 ranean stream, said to traverse the Silurian limestone in that part of Lan- 

 caster county, and discharge into the Conestoga. 



Two specimens of this fish present an interesting condition of the rudi- 

 mental eyes. On the left side of both a small perforation exists in the co- 

 rium, which is closed by the epidermis, representing a rudimental cornea ; 

 on the other the corium is complete. Here the eyeball exists as a very small 

 cartilaginous sphere with thick walls, concealed by the muscles and fibrous 

 tissue attached, and filled by a minute nucleus of pigment. On the other the 

 spliere is larger and thinner walled, the thinnest portion adherent to the cor- 

 neal spot above mentioned ; there is a lining of pigment. It is scarcely col- 

 lapsed in one, in the other so closely as to give a tripodal section. Here we have 

 an interesting transitional condition in one and the same animal, with regard 

 to a peculiarity which has at the same time physiological and systematic sig- 

 nificance, and is one of the comparatively few cases where the physiological 

 appropiiateness of a generic modification can be demonstrated. It is there- 

 fore not subject to the diflSculty under which the advocates of natural selection 

 labor, when necessitated to explain a structure as being a step in the advance 

 towards, or in the recession from, any unknown modification needful to the ex- 

 istence of the species. In the present case observation on the species in a 

 state of nature may furnish interesting results. In no specimen has a trace 

 of anything representing the lens been found. 



I am indebted to the same enterprizing Society and its Secretary for another 

 inhabitant of the Conestoga, which has hitherto escaped the notice of zoolo- 

 gists. This species, which has been distinguished by Jacob Stauffer in corres- 

 pondence, is an Etheostoma,* one possessing the character of the genus in a 



* A species of the allied genus Poeeilichtliys in the Mus. Academy Nat. Sei., from the Platte 

 Uiver, near Fort Kearney, Nebraska, presented by Dr. Hammond, appears to have been as yet un- 

 described. It may be called 1'. mesne us. A stout, little compressed species, with large scale*. 

 Dorsals not in contact. Eye entering live times into length of head, more than once in muzir-le 

 anterior to its border; head 4J4 times in total length. Caudal very rounded; first scarcely as 



4 



high as second dorsal. Pectorals longer than ventrals, not reaching vent. Scales 40. Fin ray« 



5 

 I), ix— 13; P. 10; V. 1—4; A. 9 : C. 2—14—1. Outline of back rather elevated. Length 2% 

 inches. Beside the large size of the scales, the proportionally longer head and four soft ventral 

 rays distinguish it from other si)ecie.«. The color in spirits is pale brown, with four dorsal blotches, 

 and a few groups of zigzags on the sides. Second doisal and caudal barred. 



The collections alsj contain a series of species of Ilololepis, which differ as follows, one being 

 apparently undescribed : 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



higher degree than does the best known type, the E. b 1 e n n i o i d e s. This 

 is, especially, the existence of a median abdominal series of thick shield-like 

 scales, with short mucrones radiating from the free margins. In the type of 

 the genus these scales are little larger than those of the ordinary form ; in the 

 present species they are four times the size of the largest on the body. The 

 following description will express the general characters : — Etheostoma 

 peltatum Stauffer ; body and head more compressed and elevated, and the 

 muzzle longer than in E. b 1 e n n i o i d e s. Four times the length of the 

 head (from below the opercular spine) extends a little beyond the base of the 

 caudal fiu, commencing at the end of the muzzle. Pectoral as long as head, 

 and a little less than equal base of first dorsal. Greatest height equal from 

 end of maxillary to edge of operculum. Eye 3J times into length of head, 

 measured to below opercular spine. Breadth of body through scapular re- 



7 



gion much greater than elsewhere. Scales 53, two rows on each side the 



9 

 lateral line longest. No scales in front of the first dorsal or on the head, ex- 

 cept a very few on the operculum. A shield in the clavicular angle, one be- 

 tween the ventral fins, and six in a series commencing opposite the middle of 

 the ventrals, and extending to vent; the last double. Dorsal fins well sep- 

 arated xiii— 13. Caudal deeply lunate 17 ; A. 11 ; V. 6 ; P. 14. Total tength 

 three inches. All the fins are finely barred, the ventrals but little, except the 

 first dorsal, where a series of lunate black spots occupies the middle of the in- 

 terradial membrane. The dorsal region is bright olive, with a series of short 

 brown cross-bars. The lateral region is occupied by a longitudinal series of 

 broad brownish shades ; between these and on the belly and jaws orange and 

 yellow. From spinous dorsal to occiput ; from hinder frontal region to end 

 of muzzle extending round front of orbits ; a broad perpendicular bar from 

 orbit downwards, and blotch on the operculum — black. 



Jacob Stauffer informs me that its movements are quick and lively, and 

 that it presents a striking appearance in its native waters. 



Lateral line to middle of first dorsal, on about 12 scales. 



2 



Head 3}^ times in total length. D. viii — 9 ; A. 9. Scales 62. 



9 



fas if or mis. 



-- 1 



I-ateral line on 13—16 scales, to middle of first dorsal. Scales 42 — i lerochroiiB 



J 



7 

 Head four times in total length. Rays D. ix— 10 ; A. 9. 



2 

 Lateral line on 23—8 scales to origin of second dorsal. Scales 66 i k « - .. o ♦ * ? ; 



"s i 



Head four times in total length. Rays D. x, xi— 10, 11 ; A. 9. J 



Ilololepis e r-o c h r o u 8 is found in streams and dams, particularly near Brown's Mill in the 

 ea«tern part of New Jersey, opposite Philadelphia. Its length is about two inches. The eye 

 enters the length of the head five times, from end of muzzle to edge of orbit being one diameter of 

 eye. Pectoral and ventral fins equal; rays of latter 1—5. A broad blackish band extends from 

 the end of the muzzle to base of tail, covering one-third the height laterally and interrupted by 

 reddish-yellow punctulations. Above the baud pulverulent with reddi.sh and rufous shades ; 

 below pale yellow in spirits, rarely with specks; color similar on the head below the band, except 

 a vertical black streak below the eye Tnis very pretty fish was found, and specimens presented 

 to me, by my friend Jesse Burk, of this city. 



1864.] 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



FASTI OBNITHOLOGI^. 

 BY JOHN CASSIN. 



"There is no antidote agninst the opium of time, which temporarily considereth all 

 things : our fathers find their graves in our short memories, and sadly tell us how we 

 may be buried in our survivors." 



"Oblivion is not to be hired. The greater part must be content to bf" as though they 

 had not been; to be found in the register of God, not in the records of men. Twenty- 

 seven names make up the first story before the flood, and the recorded names, ever since, 

 contain not one living century. The number of the dead long exceedeth the living. The 

 night of time far surpasseth the day, and who knows when was the eqninox?" — Sir 

 Thomas Browne. 



No. 1. 



Philipp Ludwig Statius Muller, 



Professor der Naturgeschichte zu Erlanj, Mitglud dei: Rom. Kaiserl. Akademie, 



wie auch der Berlinischen GessellschafL der Naturforscher , ^c. 



Of this author I am acquainted with the following works which in part 

 relate to Ornithology : 



1. Deliciae Naturae Selectae, oder auserlenes Naturalien Kabinet welches aus 

 den drey Reichen der Natur zeiget, &c. 2 vols., Folio, Niirnberg, 1766, (edi- 

 tion in German and French,) many colored plates. 



2. Same work, 2 vols., Folio, Dordrecht, 1771, (edition in Dutch.) 



3. Des Ritters Carl von Linn^ vollstandiges Natursystem, nach der zwolften 

 lateinschen Ausgabe, &c., an edition of the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus in 

 German, of which the Kingdom Animalia is by this author, in 9 vols.. Oc- 

 tavo, 158 plates, Niimberg, 1773 to 1776. 



There are also numerous memoirs, translations and other works, the most 

 extended and apparently the most complete enumeration of which is in En- 

 gelmann's Bibliotheca Historico-Naturalis. I have seen none other than the 

 above relating to Ornithology. 



In a series of papers, of which this is the first, I propose to bring to the 

 notice of ornithologists, a very considerable number of authors, the works of 

 whom have been either wholly or partially overlooked, or at least have not 

 received that degree of attention to which they seem to have been, and in 

 most instances are, surely entitled. All of those, whom I propose to notice, 

 have written since the era of the Linnjean binomial nomenclature. Facilities 

 unusually favorable for this description of investigation exist in the library 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, which is very rich in 

 Zoology, especially of the older authors, owing mainly to the scientific taste 

 and great liberality of the late Mr. William Maclurc, of Dr. Thomas B. Wil- 

 son, and of Mr. Edward Wilson. Many of the most remarkable and rarest 

 works were collected in Europe and presented to the Academy by the last 

 named gentleman. 



There are also in the library of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington, 

 in that of the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia, and in that of 

 the Library Company of Philadelphia, valuable and but imperfectly known 

 works, which are included within the objects of my proposed series, and to 

 all of which, by virtue of their rules and through the courtesy of the officers 

 of those institutions, I have unrestricted access. I propose to notice works, 

 or parts of works, only which relate to Ornithology, and in a few instances to 

 present notices of well known authors, for the purpose of giving condensed 

 accounts of their works. 



The bibliography of Ornithology is so extensive that no naturalist has yet 

 mastered it, nor has been able to entirely appreciate and avail himself of the 

 labors of his predecessors. There is, of course, much diversity of acquire- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



meat in this description of knowledge, and very generally an unqualified de- 

 sire to attain the utmost possible pi'oficiency. Instances occur, however, of 

 exceeding ignorance and carelessness, and, in fact, it is not quite certain that 

 the general disposition to, and respect for, research and erudition has not de- 

 clined in Ornithology within the last quarter of a century, in a degree per- 

 haps unusual in the Sciences. There is no reason that erudition in the liter- 

 ature of the Natural Sciences, through knowledge of books and the fullest re- 

 search, should be less respectable than in any other department of Human Know- 

 ledge, nor that in those Sciences this description of acquirement should not be 

 more respectable than ignorance. Here, too, as everywhere else, the great princi- 

 ples of Ethics, founded in the clear truths of Religion and Nature, should be 

 allowed the most extended jurisdiction and control, without qualification. 

 The morals of the Natural Sciences, most certainly, are not peculiar in any 

 particular, nor involve principles different in any respect from those univers- 

 ally recognized in the practical pursuits of mankind, and which have elicited 

 the most cordial assent and approbation of all civilized men. Justice, Hon- 

 esty, Industry, — in fact, all the great practical and household virtues are as 

 indispensable in the relations of cultivators of the Sciences past and present 

 as elsewhere ; possibly, it might be ventured to be suggested, ought to be 

 rather, the more devotedly practised by men aspiring to be authors, and as- 

 suming somewhat to be teachers of mankind. 



One prominent article of any code of zoological ethics that I might propose 

 would be, that every author should be cited, and otherwise and in all re- 

 spects treated justly and respectfully, so long as he can be found in print. 

 It is perhaps safely to be assumed, also, that all authors ought to be treated 

 courteously as well as justly, without reference to the extent of their publi- 

 cations, whether great or small. If belonging to that useful and laborious 

 class of naturalists who are essentially describers of species — that class which 

 possesses real knowledge, even if without hypotheses — their descriptions 

 should be cited, and themselves too, as authorities, so long as such descrip- 

 tions are known to exist. There is not, evidently, any other course consistent 

 with Justice and the plainest principles of right and morality, and, in fact, 

 no alternative, unless, indeed, an operator is disposed to set himself up for the 

 first of all history, as is said of an early Chinese Emperor. The latter course, 

 in a degree, singular as it may appear, is not entirely unknown to naturalists, 

 especially to those who regard Science rather as a Milch Cow than as a 

 transcendent Goddess — a distinction in classification first made by the great 

 poet Schiller. 



Persons addicted to hypotheses, otherwise sometimes rather loosely called 

 Systematists and Generalizers, cannot be too careful in this description of 

 respectful treatment, especially in view of the fact that the descriptive natur- 

 alists and students of species possess the great fund of real knowledge ; and 

 although describers of species may be nothing else, without the knowledge of 

 such, no one can be anything else.* It is the descriptive naturalist, too, co- 

 operating nowadays with the Anatomist and Chemist, who has brought for- 

 ward the material so sharply testing the systems, that very few, in fact nearly 

 none, have stood it! The tide of time is strewed with the wrecks of Systems 

 and Generalizations, gone to a death worse than that of the dry bones of the 

 Prophet, for they can never again live. The descriptive naturalists are the 

 true rank and file, with many outriding skirmishers, and quasi great func- 

 tionaries in attendance, garrulous, perhaps, and imperious, but of little real 

 account ; the true officers are from the ranks, and have worked their way. 



* Linnaeus says : " Botaoicea Tyro noTit Classes, Canditatus omnia Genera, Magister plurimaa 

 species. Quo plures Botanicus noverit species, eo etiam praestantior est. Cognltione specierum 

 innititur omnis solida eruditio Physica, Oeconomica, Medica; immo omnis Tera cognitio humana." 

 Philosophia Botauica, p. 202 (1751). These are the words of a right Sagamann. 



1864.] 




236 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



The true Systematist is the greatest of them, and amongst the greatest of 

 men, but comes, unfortunately, very rarely ; scaicely more than one in a cen- 

 tury. All men, or nearly so, seem capable of analysis, but true talent for 

 generalization or synthesis is one of the rarest and most precious of the 

 gifts of God. Inferences and occasional insights are accorded even to the 

 most humble, but in all those beautiful and sublime Sciences which have 

 their immediate origin in the observation of Nature, generalizations of any 

 considerable value, or the inference of laws, are not easy nor likely to be pro- 

 claimed with any flippant dogmatism. The true and faithful man of gcniu8 

 is too surely appalled by the immensity of attempting, as Goethe happily ex- 

 presses it, " to think over again the great thoughts of the Creator." 



The works of Prof. P. L. S. Miiller seem to have been much overlooked in 

 later times, though he was evidently well known, and is cited freely by his 

 contemporaries.* He is quite a voluminous author and translator, though 

 few of his works relate to Ornithology, those being, so far as I know, only 

 such as are cited at the head of this paper, and especially his edition of the 

 Systema Naturae. His Supplemental Volume of this edition contains a large 

 number of descriptions of species, generally abridged from other authors, 

 and binomial names given for the first time. Throughout his edition Prof. 

 Miiller avails himself largely of Van Houttyn's fine edition of the Systema 

 Naturae, from which he copies nearly all his plates, and also of Boddaert's 

 abridgement of the same, and from both of which (in the Dutch language) 

 he freely translates. The latter is his main authority for his additional spe- 

 cies. To the former I shall have occasion to allude in a future paper, but 

 Boddaert's abridgement I must here further mention, on account of its imme- 

 diate connexion with Prof. Miiller's Supplementary Volume. 



In 17*72, Dr. P. Boddaert commenced in Holland the publication of an 

 abridgement of the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus, under the title " Kortbegrip 

 van het Zamenstel der Natuur, van der Heer C. Linnaeus, met zeer veele 

 aoorten vermeerdert door P. Boddaert Med. Doct.," of which I have seen one 

 volume only, of 550 pages, octavo, containing the classes Mammalia and 

 Aves. In this work Dr. Boddaert gives all of the species of Quadrupeds and 

 Birds contained in the twelfth edition of the "Systema Naturae," with the 

 scientific names of Linnaeus carefully stated, and with abridged descriptions 

 in the Dutch language. He adds to those Linna^an species many others, 

 mainly from Edwards, Catesby and Buffon, but especially the last named, 

 citing constantly " Buff. Hist. Nat. Ois," the volume and page frequently, and 

 always the plate of that distinguished author's great work universally known 

 as " Planches Enlumin6es." To the species added by him he does not (in 

 this work) give scientific names, but contents himself with popular names 

 only, which are generally translations into Dutch of those given by other 

 authors, and especially of the French names of Buffon. 



It may not be improper to state, though without immediate connection 

 here, that subsequently, in 1783, Dr. Boddaert gave scientific names himself 

 to many of the species described and figured by Buffon, and of which he had 

 previously given condensed descriptions in his " Kortbegrip." The title of 

 this subsequent work is " Table des Planches Enlumineez d'Histoire Natur- 

 elle de M. D'Aubenton. Avec les denominations de MM. de Buffon, Brisson, 

 Edwards, Linnaeus et Latham, precede d'une Notice des Principaux Ouvrages 

 Zoologiques enluminees, par M. Boddaert, Med. Doct." Utrecht, 1783, 1 vol., 

 small folio, 83 pages. Many of the names proposed by him in this work, and 

 vhich are now generally adopted, are anticipated by those of Prof. Miiller. 



In 1773, the author now before us. Professor Philipp Ludwig Statius Miiller, 



* Donndorff, Zo')logi8che Beytrage, Leipzig 1795, constantly gives " Miiller Naturpyst." as his 

 first authority. CIteJ also constantly in Martini's " Allgeineine Qeschicbte der Natur," in Mar- 

 tini and Otto's edition of Buffon, in Qoeze's " Europ&ischc Fauna," and by various other authors. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 237 



commenced at Nurnberg the publication of an edition in German of the "Sys- 

 tema Naturae" of Linn£eus, under the following title: — " Des Ritters Carl von 

 Linn^, Kouiglich Schwedischen Leibarztes, &c., &c., vollstandiges Natur- 

 system, nach der zwolften lateinischen Ausgabe und nach Anleitung des 

 hoUandischen Houttuynischen Werks, mit einer ausfurlichen Erkliirung 

 ausgefertiget von Philipp Ludwig Statius Miiller, Prof, der Naturgeschichte 

 zu Erlang und Mitglied der Rom. Kais. Akademie der Naturforscher, &c." 

 which was completed by him to the end of the Animal Kingdom. This work 

 is contained in seven volumes, so styled, but bound in nine thick octavo vol- 

 umes, including a " Supplements und Register Band," the date of publication 

 of which is 1776, and of which it is especially the object of this paper to 

 give some account.* 



This edition of Prof. Miiller contains all the species given in the twelfth 

 edition of the "Systema Naturae," and in the Supplementary Volume he 

 gives a large number of others, which are (as he states in the preface) from 

 the "Addenda, Appendices und Mantissae des Ritters von Linn6," and the 

 works of "BufFon, Schreber, Boddaert, Pallas und andern." The numbering 

 of species under each genus is continued from the twelfth edition of the 

 " Systema Naturae." 



In this volume Prof. Miiller gives nearly all of the species of Birds des- 

 cribed by Buffon, not previously given by Linnaeus, and generally translates 

 the Dutch names and descriptions of Boddaert's " Kortbegrip" into German. 

 To very nearly all of his additional species, and perhaps especially to those 

 from Boddaert, he gives scientific and strictly binomial names, which are, for 

 many species, the first ever given to birds described and figured in Buffon's 

 " Planches Enlumin^es." As stated above, Boddaert gave names himself to 

 many of the same birds in 1783, but the date of Miiller's Supplement is 1776, 

 thus having clear priority. 



In his Supplemental Volume, Prof. Miiller gives a large number of species 

 in other classes, and names some species of Quadrupeds, Reptiles and In- 

 sects apparently for the first time. His "Register iiber samlicbe sechs Theile 

 des Linneischen Thierreichs," in the same volume, appears to be a complete 

 catalogue of all the species of Animalia contained in the twelfth edition of 

 the Systema Naturae of Linna-us, and seems to have been prepared very 

 carefully. It is superior to Gmelin's Indices, (Syst. Nat. i. pt. vii.) 



The following are the species of Birds given in this Supplementary Vol- 

 ume, and regarded by Prof. Miiller as additional to the species of the Systema 

 Naturte. Those species which appear to be named for the first time are here 

 given in small capitals. 



The numbering of genera is the same as that of LinnaBUS, and the number- 

 ing of species is continued in the order of the twelfth edition of the Systema 

 Naturae. I have not attempted to give those species their places in modern 

 genera, but quote only as synonymes the names of Boddaert, Gmelin and 

 others. 



Names of Birds given in the Supplementary Volume of Prof. Miiller's edition of 

 Linnseus' Systema Naturse, and regarded by him as additional to those described 

 in the twelfth original edition. 



42. Genus FALCO, Linn. 



33. Palco (Aquila) leacorypha, Pallas. 



Aquila leucorypha, Pall., Trav. i. p. 454 (1771.) 



34. Faico regnlus, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 707 (1773.) 



* There are two other volumes, of which Dr. Johann Wolf is anthor, INurnberc 1V96 and 

 1808, avowedly supplemental to Prof. Muller's edition of the Systema Natiiiae. They contain 

 Mammalia. There is also an abridgement of this edition m two volumes which I hare not seen. 

 Cdvier mentions Miiller's edition, quite unjustly, (Kegn6 Animal ir. p. 144 (lbl7). 



1864.] 




238 PBOOEEDINOS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



43. Genus STRIX, Linn. 

 A. Gehornte Eulen. 

 5a. Strix deminuta, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 707 (1773.) 

 B. Ungehornte Eulen. 



13. Strix accipitrina, Pallas, Trav. i. p. 455 (1771.) 



14. Strix uralensis, Pallas, Trav. i. p. 455 (1771.) 



15. Strix pulchella, Pallas, Trav. i, p. 456 (1771.) 



16. Strix caparoch, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 69 (1776.) 



Buff. PI. Enl. i. p. 306. Strix ulula, Linn. 



17. Strix cajennensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 70 (1776.) 



Strix cayennensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 296 (1788.) Buff. PI. Enl. 442 



18. Stbix dominigbnsis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 70 (1776.) 



Strix dominicensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 296 (1788.) 

 Buff. PI. Enl. i. p. 313. Bodd. Kortb. p. 114. 



44. Genus LANIUS. 



27. " Lanius leucorinus, Linnaeus." 



Lanius leucorhynchus, Linn., Mant. p. 524 (1771.) 



28. Lanius bicolor, Linn., Mant. p. 524 (1771.) 



29. Lanius albus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 71 (1776.) 



This description is short, and, to me, not recognizable as relating to any 

 species. It is as follows : 



" Man bringt aus den Westindien einen ganz weissen Neuntodter, welcher 

 nur allein schwarze Schwungfedern hat, und von Herrn Boddaert mit ange- 

 merket worden." Boddaert's description is equally unsatisfactory, and -with- 

 out reference to any other author : 



" Klauwier, die geheel wit is, met zwarte slag pennen : Woond in West In- 

 dien." Kortb. p. 118. 



30. Lanius auriculatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Suppl. p. 71 (1776.) 



Lanius pomeranus, Sparrm., Mus. Carls, pi. i. (1786.) 



Lanius rufus, Briss., Orn. i. p. 147 (1760.) 



Lanius rutilus. Lath., Ind. Orn. i. p. 70 (1790.) Buff. PI. Enl. 32, fig. 1. 



Has priority of all names, except that of Brisson, and is suflSciently de- 

 scribed by Prof. Miiller, and especially mentioned as " Buffon's Piegrieche 

 rousse." Brisson's name is generally adopted, but, in strict adherence to pri- 

 ority in the binomial method, this name has the right. 



31. Lanius cajennensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 72 (1776.) 



Lanius naevius, (jm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 304 (1788.) 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 377. Lanius cayanus, Linn. 



32. Lanius viridis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 72 (1776.) 



Lanius leucocephalus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 306 (1788.) 

 "Des Buffon's Tcha-Chert-be." Buff. PI. Enl. 374. 



33. Lanius coerulbus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 72 (1776,) 



Lanius coerulescens, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 297 (1788.) Buff. PI, Enl. 

 298, fig. 1. 



34. Lanius Angrajen, Miiller, Syst. Nat, Supp. p. 72 (1776.) 

 Lanius leucorhynchus, Linn., Mant. p. 524 (1771.) 



[Oct 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 239 



35. Lanius chabebt, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 72 (1116.) 



Lanius viridis, Gm.,Syst. Nat. i. p. 306 (1788.) Buff. PI. Eal. 32, fig. 2. 

 Lanius violaceus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 3 (1783.) 



45. Genus PSITTACUS. 

 A. Langschwanze, mit keilformigem Schwanze. 

 6a. Psittacus lineatus, Linn., Syst. Nat. iii, App. p. 223 (1768.) 

 66. Psittacus hsematodus, Linn., Mant. ii. p. 524 (1771.) 



6c. Psittacus maculatus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 74 (1776.) 

 Psittacus luteus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 341 (1788.) 

 Psittacus luteus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 30 (1783.)' 

 Conurus maculatus, (Miiller,) Buff., PL Enl. 525 1 l' 



6d. Psittacus purpueeus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 74 (1776.) 



Psittacus erythrocephalus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 325 (1788.) Buff., PL 



Enl. 264. 

 Psittacus gingianus, Lath., Ind. Orn. i. p. 99 (1790.) 



6«. Psittacus carolinensis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 74 ("1176.) 

 Buff., PI. Enl. 499. P. carolinensis, Linn. 



6/. Psittacus fasciatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 74 (1776.) 



Psittacus vibrissa, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 30 (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 



517. 

 Psittacus pondicerianus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 325 (1788.) 



6ff. Psittacus ferruginkus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 75 (1776.) 



Psittacus smaragdinus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 322 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 

 85, 



6^. Psittacus leucopthalmus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 75 (1776.) 



Psittacus pavua, Bodd., Tab. Pl. Enl. pp. 10. 25 (1783.) Buff., PL Enl. 



407. 

 Psittacus guianensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 324 (1788.) 



6i. Psittacus versicolurus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 75 (1776.) 



Psittacus virescens, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 326 (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 

 359. 



6*. Psittacus notatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 75 ("1776.) 

 Probably same as 6/(. — P. pavua, Bodd. ? Buff., PI. Enl. 167. 



6/. Psittacus pictus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 75 (1776.) 



Psittacus cyanopterus, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 9 (1783.) 

 Psittacus versicolor, Gm., Syst. Nat. L p. 327 (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 

 144. 



dm. Psittacus histrio, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 76 (1776.) f, 



Psittacus indicus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 318 (1788.) Buff., Pl. Enl. 143. 



B. Kurzgeachwanzte. 



48. Psittacus Aurora, Linn., Mant. ii. p. 524 (1771.) 



49. Psittacus mascarinus, Linn., Mant. ii. p. 524 (1771.) 



50. Psittacus albus, Mailer, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 76 (1776.) 



Buff., Pl. Enl. 263. Psittacus cristatus, Linn. 



51. Psittacus h^maturopygius, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 77 (1776.) 



Psittacus philippinarum, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 33L (1788.) Buff., PL 

 Enl. 191. 



1864.] 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



52. PsiTTACUS RORATTJS, Mullcr, Sjst. Nat. Supp. p. 77 (1776.) 



Vosmfer, Naturk. Beschr. Vogel, pi. 7. Buff., PI. Enl. 683. 

 Psittacus ceylonensis, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 42 (1783.) 

 Psittacus grandis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 335 (1788.) 



53. Psittacus chinensis, MuUer, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 77 (1776.) 



Psittacus ruber, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 335 (1788.) 

 Buff., PI Enl. 519. P. borneus, Linn. 



54. Psittacus marginatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 77 (1776.) 



Psittacus gala, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 17 (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 287. 

 Psittacus marginatus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 324 (1788.) 

 Psittacus lucionensis, Linn.? 



55. Psittacus fuscds, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 78 (1776.) 



Psittacus violaceus, Bodd., Ta,b. PI. Enl. p. 25 (1783.) Buff., PI. EnL 



408. 

 Psittacus purpureas, Gm , Syst. Nat. i. p. 346 (1788.) 



56. Psittacus versicolor, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 78 (1776.) 



Psittacus cyanorhynchus, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 22 (1783.) 

 Psittacus hnTanensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 342 (1788.) Buff., PL EnL 

 360. 



57. Psittacus cajenneus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 78 (1776.) 

 Probably Buff., PI. Enl. 312. P. aestivus, Linn. ? 



58. Psittacus pkctoralis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 78 (1776.) 



Psittacus polychloros, Scop., Flor. et Faun. Insub. ii. p. 87 (1786.) 

 Psittacus sinensis et magnus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. pp. 337, 344 (1788.) 

 Buff., PI. Enl. 514. 



59. Psittacus gutturalis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 79 (1776.) 



Buff., PL Enl. 549. Psittacus leucocephalus, Linn.? 



60. Psittacus ventralis, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 79 (1776.) 



Buff., PL Enl. 548. P. leucocephalus, var. (f, Gmelin. 



Chrysotis Sallaei, Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1857, p. 224? 



61. Psittacus varius, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 79 (1776.) 



Edwards, Birds, pi. 163. Psittacus crythracus, Linn. ? 

 Prof. Miiller's description of this species is unusually short, and is not re- 

 cognizable. It is probably copied from Bodd., Kortb., p. 144, -who cites " Ed- 

 wards, Birds, iv. 163." 



62. Psittacus inquinatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 79 (1776.) 



Edwards, Birds, pi. 174. P. ornatus, Linn. 



63. Psittacus abausiacus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 79 (1776.) 



Psittacus Bouqueti, Bechst., ed. Lath. Syn. 

 Psittacus eyaneicapillus, Vieill., Encyc. Meth. p. 137. 

 Edwards, Birds, pi. 230. Seligmann, Samml. vii. pi. 13. 



64. Psittacus aurantius, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (1776.) 



Psittacus polychloros, Scop., Flor. et Faun. Insub. p. 87. Edwards 

 Birds, pi. 231. ' ' 



Very probably same as No. 58, preceding. 



65 Psittacus .iuoulabis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (1776.) 



Psittacus Tovi, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 351 (1788.) Buff., PI. EuL 190 



fig. 1. 

 Psittacus fla-vigula, Bodd.. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 12 (1783.) 



6(5. Psittacus capensis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (1776.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Psittacus cyanopterus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 27 (1783.) 

 Psittacus capensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 350 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 455, 

 fig. 1. 



67. Psittacus peruvianus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (1776.) 



Psittacus taitianus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 329 (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 455, 

 fig. 2. 

 Prof. Miiller's description of this species seems to be condensed from tliat 

 of Buffon's "L'Arimanon," PI. Eal. vii. p. 141, pi. 455, fig. 2, but he says: 

 " Sein Vaterland ist Peru." Boddaert says the same, " Woond in Peru." 



68. Psittacus philippensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (1776.) 



Buff., PL Enl. 520. P. galgulus, Linn. 



69. Psittacus St. Thom^, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 81 (1776.) 



Conurus Cassinii, G. R. Gray, Cat. Brit. Mus., Psittacidae, p. 47 (1859.) 

 Buff., PL Enl. 456, fig, 1. 



70. Psittacus cajenneus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 81 (1776.) 



Psittacus notatus, Bodd., Tab. PL EnL p. 27 (1783.) Buff., PL Enl. 456, 



fig. 2. 

 Psittacus sosove, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 352 (1788.) 

 This name is first and would be entitled to adoption, but Tvas previously 

 applied by Prof. Muller to a species that I cannot determine, from his de- 

 scription, No. 57 of this list. 



71. Psittacus guineensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 81 (1776.) 



Buff., PL Enl. 60. Psittacus puUarius, Linn. 



46. Genus RAMPHASTOS. 



9. RAMPHASTOS Toco, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (1776.) 



Ramphastos Toco, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 356 (1788.) Buff., PL EnL 82. 



10. Ramphastos Byron, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 80 (1776.) 



Ramphastos albus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 357 (1788.) 

 Buceros albus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 361 (1788.) 



11. Ramphastos atricoUis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83 (1776.) 



Buff., PL Enl. 166. Ramphastos aracari, Linn. 



12. Ramphastos monilis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83 (1776.) 



Ramphastos erythrorhynchus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 355 (1788.) Buff., 

 PL EnL 262. 



13. Ramphastos flavicoUis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83 (1776.) 



Buff., PL Enl. 307. R. Tucanus, Linn. ? 



14. Ramphastos niscoiiOB, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 83 (1776.) 



Ramphastos torquatus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 354 (1788.) 

 Tucana Mexicana torquata, Briss., Cm. iv. p. 421. 



15. Ramphastos pclcher, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 84 (1776.) 



Ramphastos pavoninus, Gm., Syst. Nat. 1. p. 353 (1788.) 

 Tucana Mexicana viridis, Briss., Orn. iv. p. 423. 



16. Ramphastos flavus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 84 (1776.) 



Ramphastos luteus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 356 (1788.) 

 Tucana lutea, Briss., Orn. iv. p. 432. 



17. Ramphastos glaucus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 84 (1776.) 



Ramphastos caeruleus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 357 (1788.) 

 Tucana coerulea, Briss., Orn. iv. p. 433. 



1864.] 16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



50. Genus CORVUS. 



20. CoRvus ALBUS, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 85 (1776.) 



BuflF., PI. Enl. 327. C. scapulatus, Daud. ? C. curvirostris, Gould, f 



21. Corvus fuscus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 85 (1776.) 



Corvus leucogaster, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 15 (1783.) 

 Corvus flarus, Gm., Syst. Nat., i. p. 373 (1788.) 

 BuflF., PL Enl. 249. Lanius sulphuratus, Linn. 



22. Corvus ruber, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 85 (1776.) 



BuflF., PL Enl. 538. C. afer et senegalensls, Linn. 



23. Corvus tricolor, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 85 (1776.) 



Corvus calvus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 372. BuflF., PL Enl. 521. 



24. Corvus cinereus*, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 86 (1776.) 



BuflF., PL Enl. 523. Corvus Monedula, Linn. 



51. Genus CORACIAS. 



7. CoRACiAs LEucocEPHALus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 86 (1776.) 



Coracias senegalensls, Gm., Syst. Nat. L p. 379(1788.) BuflF. , PL EnL 

 326. 



8. Coracias glaucurus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 86 (1776.) 



Coracias madagascariensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. p. 379 (1788.) BuflF., PL 

 Enl. 501. 



52. Genus ORIOLUS. 



21. Oriolus tricolor, Muller, Syst. Nat. Sapp. p. 87 (1776.) 



BuflF., PI. Enl. 506, fig, 2. Oriolus Baltimore, Linn. 



22. Oriolus cucuUatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 87 (1776.) 



BuflF., PL EnL, 375, 376. Loxia melanocephala, Linn. 

 Oriolus textor, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 390 (1788.) 



23. Oriolus viridis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 87 (1776.) 



Oriolus viridis, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 20 (1783.) BuflF., PL EnL 328. 

 Cassicus viridis, VieilL, Nouv. Diet, v, p. 364 (1816.) 



24. Oriolus citrius, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 87 (1776.) 



Oriolus cristatus, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 21 (1783.) Buff., PL Enl. 



344. 

 Oriolus cristatus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 387 (1788.) 



56. Genus BUCCO. 



2. Bucco versicolor, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 88 (1776.) 



Bucco pictus, Bodd., Tab. PL Eul. p. 20 (1783.) BuflF., PL Enl. 330. 

 Bucco elegans, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 406 (1788.) 



8. Bucco H.KMACEPHALUS, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 88 (1776.) 

 Bucuo liavigula, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 20 (1783.) 

 Bucco philippensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 407 (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 

 331. 



4. Bucco NIGER, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp, p. 89 (1776.) 



Bucco erythrocephalus, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 12 (1783.) Buff., PL 



Enl. 206, fig. 1. 

 Bucco cayennensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 405 (1788.) 



.5. Bucco macnlatus, Miiller, Syst, Nat. Supp. p. 89 (1776.) 



Same as No. 4. ? Ca,pito nsevius, VieilL Buff., PL EuL 206, fig. 2 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. • 243 



The last two species are named from Baff., PI. Enl. 206, fig. 1, 2, and are 

 held to be the same by later ornithologists. 



57. Genus CUCULUS. ^ 



% 



23. CuctJLUs CAPENSis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 90 (1776.) ^ 



Cuculus capensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 410 (1788.) Buflf., PI. Enl. 390. 



24. CocuLus NiGEK, MiiUor, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 90 (1776.) 



Cuculus ater, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 30 (1783.) 

 Corvus australis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 377 (1788.) 

 Bucco cinereus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 409. 

 Cuculus tranquillus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 417. 

 Monasa niger, (Miiller), Buflf., PI. Enl. 512. ! ! 



25. Cuculus Toui-00, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 90 (1776.) 



Cuculus melanorhynchus, Bodd,, Tab. PI. Enl. p. 18 (1783.) 

 Cuculus Tolu, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 422 (1788.) 

 Centropus Toulou, (MuUer,) Buflf., PI. Enl. 295, fig. 1. ! 



59. Genus PICUS. 



22. Picus sBNEGALENSis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 91 (1776.) 



Picus senegalensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 430 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 

 345, fig. 2. 



23. Picus Goert^, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 91 (1776.) 



Picus Goertan, Gm., S.vst. Nat. 1. p. 434 (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 320. 



24. Picus striatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 91 (1776.) 



Picus striatus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 427 (1788.) Buff., Pl. Enl. 281. 

 Picus striatus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 17 (1783.) 



25. Picus flavus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 91 (1776.) 



Picus exalbidus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 428 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 509. 

 Picus citrinus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 30 (1783.) 



26. Picus elegans, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 92 (1776.) 



Picus cinnamomeus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 428 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 



524. 

 Picus fusco-fulvus, Bodd., Tab, PI. Enl. p. 30 (1783.) 



62. Genus ALCEDO. 



16. Alcedo tridactylus, Linn., Mant. p. 524 (1771.) 



17. Alcedo rubra, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 93 (1776.) 



Vosmser, Natuurk. Besch. Vog. pl. 3. Galbula. 



18. Alcedo galerita, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 94 (1776.) 



Alcedo nigra, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 22 (1783.) 

 Alcedo caeruleocephala, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 449 (1788.) 

 Corythornis galerita, (Miiller,) Buff., Pl. Enl. 356, fig. 1. 



19. Alcedo leucocephala, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 94 (1776.) 



Halcyon rufiventer, Swain., B. of W. Afr. ii. p. 101 (1837.) 

 Halcyon leucocephala (MuUer,) Buff., Pl. Enl, 356, fig. 2. 



20. Alcedo aurea, MuUer, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 94 (1776.) 



Vosmaer, Natuurk. Besch. Vog. pl. 2. Galbola. 



63. Genus MEROPS. 



8. Merops americanus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 95 (1776.) 



Merops bicolor, Bodd., Tab. Pl. Enl. p. 15 (1783.) Buff., PL Enl. 252. 



1864.] 




244 • PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Merops badins, Gm., Sjst. Nat. i. p. 462 (1788.) 

 The Professor seems to be incorrect in his geography in this instance. He 

 gives the locality fairly enough: "Der Aufenthalt ist in Isle de France." 



9. Merops pusillus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 95 (1776.) 



Merops erythropterus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 464 (1788.) Baflf., PI. Enl. 



318. 

 Muscicapa bicolor, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 19 (1783.) 



10. Merops giganteps, Miiller, Syst. Nat. i. p. 95 (1776.) 



Merops cayenensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 464 (1788.) 

 Dendrocolaptes cayennensis, Temm. PI Col. vi. p. 66. 

 Dendrocolaptes giganteus, (Miiller)! Buflf., PI. Enl. 454. 



11. Merops persica, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 708 (1771.) 



65. Genus CERTHIA. 



26. Certhia capensis, Linnsens. 



Certhia capensis, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 185 (1766.) ? 

 This duplication of a name I do not understand, Professor Miiller having 

 previously given Certhia capensis, Linn., in his vol. ii. p. 255. 



27. Certhia violacea, Linn., Mant. p. 525 (1771.) 



28. Certhia intermedia, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 98 (1776.) 



This species I cannot distinguish. The description is " Diese seltene Art 

 ist olivenfiirbig griin, unten weiss, an der Brust mit schwarzen Flecken, wle 

 manche Amsel oder Drossel, gefleckt. Die Ruderfedern laufen, wie ander 

 Spechten, spitzig aus, der Schnabel aber, und die iibrige Gestalt kommt mit 

 den Baumlaufern voUkommen iiberein. Das Vaterland ist Europa. " Copied 

 from Bodd. Kortb. p. 196, who cites no other author. 



29. Certhia jugularis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 98 (1776.) 



Buff,, PI. Enl. 246, fig. 1. C. sperata, Linn. 



30. Certhia cinerea, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 98 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 576, fig.2. C. currucaria, Linn. 



31. Certhia tricolor, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 99 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 576, fig. 4. C. zeylonica, Linn. 



32. Certhia notatus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 99 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Eul. 575, fig. 2, 3. C. Lotentia, Linn. 



66. Genus TROCHILUS. 



1. Trochilus capensis, Linn., Mant. p. 525 (1771.) 



2. Trochilus jugularis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 100 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 227, fig. 3. T. ourissia, Linn. ? 



67. Genus ANAS. 

 39a. Anas casarca, Linn., Syst. Nat. iii. p. 224 (1768.) 



396. Anas hyperborea, (Pallas.) 



Anser hyperboreus. Pall., Spic. Zool. vi. p. 25 (1769.) 



39c. Anas Stelleri, Pall., Spic. Zool. vi. p. 35 (1769.) 



46. Anas rufina, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 713 (1773.) 



47. Anas mersa, Pallas, Trav. U. p. 713 (1773.) 



69. Genus ALCA. 

 6. Aloa oirrhata, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v. p. 7 (1769.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP EHILADELPHIA. 245 



7. Alca psittacula, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v. p. 13 (1769.) 



8. "Alca cristata, Pallas, Spicil. fasc. v. tab. iii." 



Alca cristatella, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v. p7T.8 (1769.) 



9. Alca tetracula, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v, p. 23 (1769.) 



72. Genus PELECANUS. 

 4a. Pelecanus pygmaeus, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 712 (1773.) 

 75. Genus COLYMBUS. 



12. CoLYMBejs DUPLiCATus, MiiUer, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 107 (1776.) 



Colymbus cristatus minor, Briss., Orn. vi. p. 42. 

 Colymbus cornutus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 591 (1788.) 



13. COLTMBUS St. Thom^, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 107 (1776.) 



Colymbus Thomensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 592 (1788.) 



76. Genus LARUS. 



12. Larus Icbthyaetus, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 713 (1773.) 



13. Larus albus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 108 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl, 266. L. marinus, Linn., (young.) 

 Larus maculatus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 16 (1783.) 



84. Genus ARDEA. 



6a. Ardea (Grus) leucogerana, Pallas. 



Grus leucogeranus. Pall., Trav. ii. p. 714 (1773.) 

 Ardea gigantea, S. G. Gmelin, Trav. ii. p. 189. 



6b. Ardea (Grus) mexicana, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 110 (1776.) 

 A. canadensis, Linnaeus. 



6c. Ardea (Grus) Japonensis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 110(1776.) 

 Japansche Reiger, Bodd., Kortb. p. 251. 

 Grus leucogeranos, Pallas, juv. ? 



6d. Ardea (Grus) Buccinator, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 110 (1776.') 

 Buff., PI. Enl. 169. Psophia crepitans, Linn. 



C. Slorche, Ciconice. 

 8a. Ardea (Ciconia) fusca, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. Ill (1776.) 

 Buff., PL Enl. 399. Ardea nigra, Linn. 



D. Reiher, Ardece, 



27. Ardea pusilla, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. Ill (1776.) 



"Die Farbe ist aschgrau, der Hals und die Brust aber sind weiss und 

 Bchwarz gefleckt. Der Aufenthalt ist in Italien, Boddaert." Kleine Reiger, 

 Bodd., Kortb. p. 253. No reference to other author. " 



28. Aedea cristata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. Ill (1776.) 



Ardea caerulescens, Lath., Ind. Orn. ii. p. 690 (1790.) Buff., PI. EnL 

 349. 



29. Ardea tricolor, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. Ill (1776.) 



Ardea leucogaster, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 21 (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 



350. 

 Ardea leucogaster, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 628 (1788.) 



30. Ardea comata, Pall., Trav. ii. p. 715 (1773.) 

 1864.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



85. Genus TANTALUS. 



8. Tantalus Courly, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 112 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 198. Scolopax madagascariensis, Linn. 



9. Tantalus castaneus, Miiller, Syst Nat. Supp. p. 112 (1776.) 



" Le Falcinellus de Gesner et D'Aldrovande, de couleur sombre." Marsigli, 

 Desc. du Danube, v. p. 41 (1744.)* T. Falcinellus, Linn. 



87. Genus TRINGA. 



24. Tringa Islandica, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. Addenda, (not paged, 1767.) 



25. Tringa Senegallensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 113 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 362. Parra senegalla, Linn. 



26. Tringa Hudsonica, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 114 (1776.) 



Edwards, Birds, pi. 141. Tringa interpres, Linn. 



27. Tringa fusca, llliiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 114 (1776) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 300. Tringa littorea, Linn. 



88. Genus CHARADRIUS. 



13. Charadrius gregarius, Pall., Trav. i. p. 456 (1771.) 



14. Charadrius Asiaticus, Pall., Trav. ii. p. 715 (1773.) 



15. Charadrius Tataricus, Pall., Trav. ii. p. 715 (1773.) 



16. Charadrius Dominicus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 116 (1776.) 



Pluvialis dominicensis aurea, Brisson, Orn. v. p. 48. 

 Charadrius virginicus, Auct. ? 



17. Charadrius Anglus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 117 (1776.) 



Morinellus anglicanus, Briss., Orn. v. p. 58 (1760.) Albin, Nat. Hist. 

 Birds, ii. pi. 63. 



18. Charadrius Jamaicensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 117 (1776.) 



Charadrius Jamaicensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 685 (1788.) 

 The larger grey Snipe, with a white neck. Brown, Nat. Hist. Jamaica, 

 p. 477. 



19. Charadrius Utopiensis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 117 (1776.) 



Tringa naevia, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 681. Buff., PI. Enl. 365. 



20. Charadrius Mexicanus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 117 (1776.) 



Himautopus Mexicanus, Briss., Orn. v. p. 36. 



Himantopus nigricoUis, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. x. p. 42 (1817.) 



21. Charadrius Bengalensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 118 (1776.) 



Pluvialis Bengalensis major, Briss., Orn. v. p. 82. 

 Otis bengalensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. ii. p. 724 (1788.) Edwards, Birds, 

 pi. 250. 



22. Charadrius aureus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 118 (1776.) 



Pluvialis aurea, Briss., Orn. v. p. 43. C. pluvialis, Linn. 



91. Genus FULICA. 

 8. Fulica Cajanea, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 119 (1776.) 



Fulica cayennensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 700 (1780.) Buff., PI. Enl. 



352. 

 Fulica major, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 21 (1783.) 



* This work is rarely citod and apparently little known, even to European naturalists, though it 

 is one of the piost elaborate ever published. 6 vols., folio, with a large number of pJates, in those 

 of which devoted to Natural History nearly all the Birds of Jilurope are given. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 247 



93. Genus RALLUS. 



11. Rallu3 capensis, Linn., Mant. p. 525 (1771.) 



12. Rallus viRiDis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 120 (1776.) 



Rallus cayenensis, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 22 (1783.) 



Rallus cayenuensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 718 (1788.) Buflf., PI. Enl. 



368. 



98. Genus PAVO. 



4. Pavo Chinqcis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 121 (1776.) 



Pavo tibetanus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 731 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 11. p. 

 385. 



101. Genus PHASIANUS. 



7. Phasianus superbus, Lian., Mant. p. 526 (lYTl.) 



8. Phasianus cornutus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 125 (1776.) 



Edwards' Birds, pi. 116. Meleagris Satyra, Linn. 



9. Phasianus Hoazin, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 125 (1776.) 



Phasianus cristatus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 740 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 

 337. 



10. Phasianus Marail, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 125 (1776.) 



Penelope Marail, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 734 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 338. 



11. Phasianus caracara, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 125 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. ii. p. 407. Polyborus ? 



12. Phasianus chacamel, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 125 (1776.) 



Penelope vociferans, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 735 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 

 ii. p. 409. 



102. Genus NUMIDA. 



2. Numida cristata, Pall., Spic. Zool. pt. iv. p. 15 (1767.) 



3. "Numida coronata, Pallas, Miscell." 



Probably Numida mitrata, Pall., Spic. Zool. iv. p. 18. There is no such 

 species described in Pallas' " Miscellanea Zoologica." 



103. Genus TETRAD. 



A. Federfusse. 



9a. Tetrao senegallus, Linn., Mant. p. 526 (1771.) 

 96. Tetrao paradoxa, PalL, Trav. ii. p. 712 (1773.) 



B. Kahlfiisse. 



21. Tetrao Europaeus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 129 (1776.) 



Tetrao montana, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 9 (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 136. 

 Tetrao montanus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 758 (1788.) 



22. Tetrao afer, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 129 (1776.) 



Tetra nudicollis, Bodd., PI. Enl. p. 11 (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 180. 

 Tetrao rubicollis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 758 (1788.) 



23. Tetrao chinensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 129 (1776.) 



Tetrao perlatus, Gm., Syst. Nat. 1. p. 758 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. ii. p. 

 452. 



24. Tetrao colin, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 129 (1776.) 



Tetrao novae-hispaniae, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 763 (1788.) ? Buff., PI. Enl. 

 ii. p. 484. 



1864.] 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



25, Tetrao coyolecs, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 129 (\116.) 



Tetrao coyoleos, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 763 (1788.) BufiF., PI. Enl. ii. p. 



485. 



26. Tetrao colenicui, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 130 (1776.) 



Tetrao mexicanus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 762 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 149. 



104. Genus COLUMBA. 



35o. Columba viridis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 132 (1776.) 

 Columba vernans, Linn., Mant. p. 526 (1771.) 



356. Columba australis, Linn., Mant. p. 526 (1771.) 



35c. Columba amboinensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 132 (1776.) 



Columba aromatica, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 778 (1788.) BufiF., PI. Enl. 163. 

 Not C. amboinensis, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 286, which is given by Prof. Miil- 

 ler in his vol. ii. p. 514. He applies this name to the present species evidently 

 inadvertently. 



3bd. Columba moluccensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 133 (1776.) 

 BufiF., PL Enl. 164. C. senea, Linn. 



35e. Columba indica, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 133 (1776.) 



Columba melanocephala, Gm., Syst. Nat. p. 781 (1788.) BufiF., PI. Enl. 

 214. 

 Not C. indica, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 284 (1766.) 



35/. Columba senegalensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 133 (1776.) 



Columba vinacea, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 782 (1788.) BufiF., PI. EnL, 161. 



35^. Columba javanensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 133 (1776.) 

 Columba Turtur viridis, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 11 (1783.) 

 Columba javanica, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 781 (1788.) BufiF., PL Enl. 177. 



35A. Columba asiatica, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 133 (1776.) 

 BufiF., PL EnL 142. Columba viridis, Linn. 



41. Columba histrio, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 134 (1776.) 



Columba migratoria, Linn. BufiF., PL Enl. 176. 



42. Columba fusca, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 134 (1776.) 



BufiF., PL Enl. 175. Columba carolinensis, Linn. 



43. Columba macbrona, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 134 (1776.) 



Columba macroura, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 790 (1788.) BufiF., PL EnL 

 329. 

 This name " macerona" seems much like a typographical error. 



44. Columba ventralis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 134 (1776.) 



BufiF., PL Enl. 176. Columba canadensis, Linn. 



45. Columba atricollis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 135 (1776.) 



BufF., PL Enl. 140. Columba capensis, Linn^ 



105. Genus ALAUDA. 



12. Alauda Tatarica, Pall., Trav. ii. p, 707 (1773.) 



13. Alauda cochevis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 136 (1776.) 



BufiF., PL Enl. 503, fig. 1. A. cristata, Linn. 



14. Alauda plumata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 137 (1776.) 



BufiF., PL Enl. 503, fig. 2. Alauda arborea, Linn. 

 Alauda nemerosa, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 797 (1788.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



* 



15. Alauda senegalensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 137 (ITTG.) 



Alauda senegalensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 797 (1788.) Buflf., PI. Enl. 



504, fig. 1. 

 Alauda senegalensis, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 29 (1783.) 



16. Alauda coUaris, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 137 (1776.) 



Edwards, Birds, pi. 268. A. calandra, Linn. 



17. Alauda calandre, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 137 (1776.) 



BuflF., PL Enl. 363, fig. 2. A. calandra, Linn. 



18. Alauda calandrotte, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 137 (1776.) 



Buflf., PI. Enl. 490. Tardus pilaris, Linn. 



106. Genus STURNUS. 

 6. Sturuus militaris, Linn., Mant. p. 527 (1771.) 



107. Genus TURDUS. 



29. TuBDUs PULCHER, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 139 (1776.) 



Turdus erythrogaster, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 22 (1783.) BuflF., PI. Enl. 



358. 

 Turdus chrysogaster, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 835 (1788.) 



30. Turdus Merle, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 139 (1776.) 



BuflF., PI. Enl. 558, fig. 1. Turdus dominicus, Linn. 



31. Turdus cajaneus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 139 (1776.) 



BuflF., PI. Enl. 558, fig. 2. T. hispaniolensis, Gm.? 

 Muscicapa altiloqua, Vieill., Ois. d'Am. Sept. i. p. 67 (1807.)? 



32. Turdus madaGascabiensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 139 (1776) 



Turdus Urovang, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 836 (1788.) BuflF., PI. Enl. 557, 

 fig. 2. 

 Gmelin also has a Turdus madagascariensvs, Syst. Nat. i. p. 823, which name 

 is a synonyme for the next species now given. 



33. Turdus auratus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 140 (1776.) 



Turdus madagascariensiSj Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 32 (1783.) BuflF., PI. 



EnL 557, fig. 1. 

 Turdus madagascariensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 823 (1788.) 



34. Turdus carolinus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 140 (1776.) 



Turdus brunneus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 32 (1783.) BuflF., PL EnL 556, 

 fig. 2. 

 The figure here cited is one of the few of Buflfon's PL EnL which for me is 

 impossible to be recognized. 



35. Turdus canadensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 140 (1776.) 



BuflF., PL Enl. 556, fig. 1. Turdus migratorius, Linn. 



36. Turdus cinereus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 140 (1776.) 



Turdus cayennensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 816 (1788.) BuflF., PL Enl. 

 515. 



37. Turdus americanus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 140 (1776.) 



Turdus cayennensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. L p. 816 (1788.) BuflF., PL Enl. 

 515. 

 Dr. Boddaert gives two descriptions of the bird figured by Buflfon, PL Enl. 

 515, citing the plate each time, (Kortb., pp. 341, 343). Prof. Muller gives the 

 two names on the faith of Boddaert's descriptions, which he copies. 



38. Turdus citreus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 141 (1776.) 



BuflF., PI. EnL 398, fig. 2. Motacilla aurocapilla, Linn. 



1864.] 




250 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



39. Tardus mauvis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 141 (1776.) 



BufiF., PI. Enl. 51. Turdus iliacus, Linn. 



40. Turdus maculatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 141 (1776.) 



Turdus ater, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 830 (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 559. 



41. Turdus ferruqineus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 141 (1776.) 



Turdus cinnamomeus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 825 (1788.) Buff., PI. Eol 

 560. 



42. Turdus superbus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 142 (1778.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 561. Turdus nitens, Linn. 



43. Turdus fuscus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 142 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 563, fig.' I. Turdus cafer, Linn. 



44. Turdus seneqalius, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 142 (1776.) 



Turdus lugubris, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 33 (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 563, 



fig. 2. 

 Turdus senegalensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 823 (1788.) 



45. Turdus viridis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 142 (1776.) 



Turdus olivaceus, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 33 (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 564, 



fig. 1. 

 Turdus indicus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 810 (1788.) 



46. Turdus solitarius, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 142 (1776.) 



Turdus manillensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 833 (1788.) Buff., PI. BnL 

 564, fig. 2. 



47. Turdus purpureus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 143 (1776.) 



Turdus juidae, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 31 (1783.) Buff., PI. EnL 540. 

 Turdus auratus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 819 (1788.) 



48. Turdus palmista, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 143 (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 539, fig. 1. Turdus palmarum, Linn. 



49. Turdus castaneus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 143 (1776.) 



Turdus nigerrimus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 821 (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 



539, fig. 2. 

 Turdus Jala, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 31 (1783.) 



50. Turdus europseus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 143 (1776.) 



Buff. PL Enl. 182. Turdus torquatus, Linn, {juvenis.) 



51. Turdus sordidus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 143 (1776.) 



Turdus brevicauda, Bodd. Tab. PL Enl. p. 6 (1783.) 



Corvus pbilippensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. 1 p. 375 (1788.) ♦ 



Pitta atricapilla, Auct. Buff. PL Enl. 89. 



52. Turdus caudatus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 144 (1776.) 



Turdus longicauda, Bodd. Tab. PL Enl. p. 13 (1783.) Buff. PL EnL 



220. 

 Turdus aeneus, Gm. Syst. Nat. 1. p. 818 (1788.) 



53. Turdus moluccensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 144 (1776.) 



Corvus madagascariensis. Gen. Syst. Nat. 1 p. 376 (1788.) 

 Pitta cyanoptera, Temm. PL Col. vi. p. 16. Buff. PL EnL 257. 



54. Turdus coronatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 144 (1776.) 



Corvus bengalensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 376 (1788.) 

 Corvus brachyurus, Linn. Buff. PL Enl. 258. 



55. Turdus gutturalis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 144 (1776.) 



Buff. PL Enl. 272. Turdus zeylonus, Linn. 

 L. Bacbakiri, Shaw. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 261 



This name has precedence of all others, except that of Linnaeus, which is 

 erroneous geographically. 



56. Turdus dominicus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Turdus terat, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 16 (1783.) Buff. PL Enl. 273, 



fig. 2. 

 Turdis orientalis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 821 (1788.) 



57. Turdus indicus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Turdus virens, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 17 (1783.) Buff. PI. Enl. 273, 



figl. 

 Turdus virens hispaniolensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 822 (1788.) 

 These two species, 56 and 57, are the birds represented in Buff. PI. Enl. 

 273, but Professor Miiller has reversed them. The "Merle des Indes Orien- 

 tales" is his T. dominicus, and the " Merle de St. Domingo " his T. indicus. 

 The reverse would have been correct, and his names applicable geographi- 

 cally. 



58. Turdus tristis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Turdus nigricans, VieiU. Nouv. Diet. xx. p. 253 (1818.) Buff. PL 

 EnL 317. 



59. Turdus philippensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Turdus philippensis, Bodd., Tab. PL EnL p. 21, (1783.) Buff. PI 



Enl. 339. 

 Turdus eremita, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 833 (1788.) 



60. TuBDUs PoDOBE, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Turdus erythropterus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 835 (1788.) Buff. PI 

 EnL 354. 



61. Turdus cyaneus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Turdus atricapillus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p, 822 (1788.) Buff. PL Enl 

 392. 



62. Turdus guajanus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Buff. PL EnL 355. "Merle de la Guiane." 



Turdus cyanurus, Bodd. Tab. PL Enl. p. 21. (1783.) * 



Turdus cyanurus, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 828 (1788.) 

 This name has priority, but is erroneous geographically, Prof. Miiller having 

 been misled by Buffon's name " Merle de la Guiane." Boddaert commits the 

 same error following Bnffon. ' 



63. Turdus Rousserolle, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 145 (1776.) 



Buff. PL Enl. 513. T. arundinaceus, Linn. 



108. Genus AMPELIS. 



4a. Ampelis maculatus, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 147 (1776.) 

 Ampelis caerulea, Vieill. ? Buff. PL Enl. 188. 



109. Genus LOXIA. 



49. Loxia orix, Linn. Mant. p. 527 (1771.) 



50. Loxia sibirica, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 711 (1773.) 



51. Loxia cristata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 149 (1776.) 



Loxia cucullata. Lath. Ind. Orn. i. p. 378 (1790.) Buff. PL EnL 103. 



52. Loxia caudata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 149 (1776.) 



Colius senegalensis, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 842 (1788.) Buff. PL Enl. 

 282, fig. 2. 



1864.] 




252 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



53. Loxia melanocephala, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 150(1776.) 



Buflf. PI. Enl. 309, fig. 2. Loxia oryx, Linn. 



54. Loxia maja, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 150 (1776.) 



Buff. Pi. Enl. 109, fig. 1, 2. Loxia maja, Linn. 



•55. Loxia leucura, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 150 (1776.) 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 135, fig. 1. L. enuncleator, Linn. 



56. Loxia maculata, Muller, Syst. Nat.. Supp. p. 150 (1776.) 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 135, fig. 2. L. philippina, Linn. 



67. Loxia Moineau, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 150 (1776). 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 134, fig. 1. L. oryx, Linn. 



58. Loxia coromandela, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 151 (1776.) 



Buff. PI. Enl. 101, fig. 1. Loxia capensis, Linn. 



59. Loxia Jacobin, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 151 (1776.) 



Buff. Pi. Enl. 139, fig. 3. Loxia malacca, Linn. 



60. Loxia undulata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 151 (1776.) 



Buff. PI. Enl. 139, fig. 1. L. punctularia, Linn. 



61. Loxia laticauda, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 151 (1776.) 



Loxia flabellum, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 23 (1783.) Buff. PL Enl. 380. 

 Loxia flabellifera, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 850 (1788.) 



62. Loxia rubricollis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 151 (1776.) 



Buff. PI. Enl. 153, fig. 2. L. ludoviciana, Linn. ? 



63. Loxia Nonette, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 151 (1776.) 



Loxia cucullata, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 24 (1783.) 

 Buff. PI. Enl. 393, fig. 3. L. coUaria. Linn. 



64. Loxia aurata, Muller, Svst. Nat. Supp. p. 152 (1776.) 



Loxia Regina, Bodd. Tab. PI. Enl. p. 24 (1783.) 

 , Buff. PI. Enl. 393, fig. 2. L. benghalensis, Linn. ? 



65. Loxia Papa, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 152 (1776.) 



Buff. PI. Enl. 159, fig. 1, 2. Emberiza ciris, Linn. 



66. Loxia cucullata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 152 (1776.) 



Buff. PI. Enl. 223, fig. 1. Fringilla senegala, Linn. 



67. Loxia nigra, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 152 (1776.) 



Fringilla splendens, Vieill. Nouv. Diet. xii. p. 173 (1817.) Buff. PI. 

 224, fig. 3. 



68. Loxia notata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 152 (1776.) 



Fringilla melanoleuca, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 910 (1788.) Buflf. PI. Enl. 

 224, fig. 2. 



69. Loxia fimbriata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 153 (1776.) 



Fringilla melanictera, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 910 (1788.) Buff, PI. Enl. 

 224, fig. 1. 



70. Loxia melanura, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 153 (1776.) 



Fringilla arcuata, Gm. Syst. Nat. i. p. 912 (1788.) Buff. PL EnL 230. 

 fig. 1. 



71. Loxia erythhopthalma, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 153, (1776.) 



Fringilla rosea, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 14, (1783.) Buff., PI. Enl. 230, 

 fig. 2. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 253 



72. LoxiA Ha;MORHOiDAUs, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp., p. 153, (1776.) 



Fringilla Commersonia, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 14, (1783.) Buff., PI. 

 Enl. 230, fig. 3. 



73. Loxia Verdier, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 153, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Eul. 341, fig. 1. L. butyracea, Linn. 



74. Loxia litpkata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 153, (1776.) 



Loxia dominioensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 855, (1788.) Buff., PL EnL 

 341, fig. 2. 



75. Loxia Bouebonensis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 154, (1776.) 



Loxia nigro-aurantia, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 12, (1783.) Buff., PL EnL 



204, fig. 1. 

 Loxia aurantia, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 853, (1788.) 

 Spermopliila Daubentoni, G. R. Gray ? 



76. Loxia Bouvreuil, MuUer, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 154, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 204, fig. 2. 



77. Loxia conchata, MuUer, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 154, (1776.) 



Loxia bicolor, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 307, (1766?) 



Loxia fusciventer, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 20, (1783.) Buff., PL EnL 



319, fig. 2. 

 Loxia minuta, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 865, (1788.) 



78. Loxia crispa, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp., p. 154, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 319, fig. 1. Loxia lineola et Fringilla crispa, Linn. 



110. Genus EMBERIZA. 



25. Emberiza passerina. Pall., Trav. 1. p. 456, (1771.) 



26. Emberiza pithyornis. Pall., Trav. ii. p. 710, (1773.) 



27. Emberiza aureola, Pallas, Trav. ii. p. 711, (1773.) 



28. Emberiza notata. Mull., Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 157, (1776.) 



Emberiza lotharingica, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 882. Buff., PI. Enl. 511, 

 fig. 2. 



29. Emberiza Moineau, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 157, (1776.) 



Loxia macroura, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 845, (1788.) 

 Pentheria Moineau, (Miiller) I Buff., PI. Enl. 183, fig. 1. 



111. Genus TANAGRA. 



25. Tanagra varia, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 158, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 301, fig. 1. T. Sayaca, Linn. 



26. Tanagra viridis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 158, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 7. T. tatao, Linn. 



27. Tanagra Seledon, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 158, (1776.) 



Tanagra tricolor, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 891, (1788.) Buff., PI. Enl. 33, 

 fig.l. 



28. Tanagra cyanocephala, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 159, (1776.) 



Tanagra festiva, Shaw, Nat. Misc. xiii. pi. 537, (1804?) Buff., PL Enl. 



33, fig. 2. 

 Tanagra cyanocephala, VieilL, Nouv. Diet, xxxii. p. 425, (1819.) 



29. Tanagra nigra, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 159, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 179, fig. 1. Tanagra brasiliensis, Linn. 



1864.] 




254 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



30. Tanagra MAXIMA, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 159, (1776.) 



Tanagra magna, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 890, (1788.) 

 Saltator maxima (Muller) ! Buff., Pi. Enl. 205. 



31. Tanagra mitrata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 159, (1776. > 



Buff., PI. Enl. 290, fig. 1. T. cayana, Linn. 



32. Tanagra pompadora, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 159, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 128. Tanagra jacapa, Linn. 



33. Tanagra fusca, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 159, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 155, fig. 2. T. gularis, Linn. 



34. Tanagra elegans, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 160, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 114, fig. 1. T. violacea, Linn. 



112. Genua FRINGILLA. 



42. Fkingilla mozambica, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 163, (1776.) 



Fringilla ictera, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xii. p. 170, (1817.) 

 Serinus mozambica (Muller). Buff., PI. Enl. 364. 



43. Fingilla fusca, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 163, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 151, fig. 1. Fringilla cannabina, Linu. 

 Fringilla linota. Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 916, (1788.) 



44. Fringilla vitis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 163, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 151, fig. 2. Fringilla linaria, Linn. 



45. Fringilla cardinalis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 163, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 6, fig. 2. Loxia oryx, Linn. 



46. Fringilla Taria, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 163, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 292. Fringilla tristis, Linn, {juvenis). 



47. Fringilla projer, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 164, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 233. Emberiza miliaria, Linn, (juvenis). 



48. Fringilla cerata, Muller, Syst. Nat, Supp. p. 164, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. EnL 157, fig.l. F. senegala, Linn. 



49. Fringilla diadema, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 164, (1776.) 



Buff., PI. Enl. 225. Fringilla Petronia, Linn. 



50. Fkingilla flava, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 164, (1776.) 



Emberiza brasiliensis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 872, (1788.) Buff., PI. EnL 

 321, fig. 1. 



51. Fringilla beuante, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 164, (1776.) 



Emberiza fusco-fulva, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 20, (1783.) Buff., PL EnL 



321, fig. 2. 

 Emberiza borbonica, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 886, (1788.) 



52. Fringilla capensis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 165, (1776.) 



Emberiza pileata, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p, 23. (1783.) Buff., PL BnL 



386, fig. 2. 



A common South American species with abundance of names, of which this 



is the first, but erroneous geographically. Miiller follows Buffon, who gives 



the locality as Cape of Good Hope. Boddaert does the same. (Kortb. p. 397) 



53 Fringilla mexicana, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 165, (1776.) 



Emberiza mexicana, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 23, (1783.) Buff., PI. BnL 



386, fig. 1. 

 Emberiza mexicana, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 873, (1788.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 256 



54, Fringilla linotte, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 165, (1776,) 

 Buflf., PI. Enl. 485, fig. 1. Fringilla cannabina, Linn, ? 



65. Fbingilla Cabaret, Miiller, Sjst. Nat. Supp. p. 165, )1776.) 



Fringilla minima, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 28, (1783.) BuflF., PL Enl. 



485, fig. 2. 

 Linaria nifescens, Vieill. 



66. Fringilla fasciata, MuUer, Syst. Nat, Supp. p. 165, (1776.) 



BuflF., PL Enl. 485, fig. 3. Fringilla spinus, Linn. 



57. Fringilla chalybeata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 166, (1776.) 



Fringilla nitens, Gm., Syst, Nat, i, p, 909, (1788.) BuflF., PL EnL 291, 

 fig. 1. 



68. Fringilla Dominicana, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp, p, 166, (1776.) 

 Fringilla larvata, Bodd,, Tab. PL EnL p. 4, (1783.) 

 Buff.* PL EnL 55, fig. 2. Loxia dominicana, Linn. 



59. Fringilla cucullata, Miiller, Syst, Nat. Supp. p, 166, (1776.) 



Passer cristatus, Bodd., Tab, PL EnL p. 11, (1783.) BuflF., PL Enl. 181. 



fig. 1. 

 Fringilla cristata, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 926, (1788.) 



60. Fringilla rubricollis, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 166, (1776.) 



Buff., PL Enl. 182, fig. 2. Loxia oryx, Linn. 



61. Fringilla conchata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p, 166, (1776.) 



Fringilla speciosa, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 12, (1783.) Buff., PL Enl. 



203, fig, 1, 

 Fringilla elegans, Gm., Syst. Nat. L p, 912, (1788,) 



62. Fringilla c(erulea, Muller, Syst Nat. Supp. p, 167, (1776.) 



Tanagra coerulea, Gm,, Syst. Nai, i, p. 891, (1788.) Buff., PL Enl, 203, 

 fig, 2. 



113. Genus MUSCICAPA, 



22. MusciCAPA CAUDATA, Miiller, Syst, Nat, Supp. p. 168, (1776.) 



Muscicapa viridescens, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl, p. 15, (1783.) Buff,. Pi. 



Enl, 248, fig. 1. ' 



Museicapa holosericea, Temm. 



23. MtrsciCAPA coronata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp, p. 168, (1776.) 



Todus regius, Gm,, Syst. Nat. i. p. 445, (1788.) 

 Muscivora coronata, (Miiller) ! Buff., PL Enl. 289. 



24. Muscicapa Virginea, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 168, (1776.) 



Buff., PL EnL 669, fig. 1. M. crinita, Linn. 



25. Muscicapa leucocephala, Muller, Syst, Nat, Supp. p. 169, (1776.) . 



Buff,, PL Enl. 569, fig. 2. M, cayennensis, Linn. 



26. Muscicapa maculata, Miiller, Syst, Nat, Supp. p, 169, (1776.) 



Muscicapa audax, Gm., Syst. Nat. 1. p, 934, (1788,) 

 Myiodynastes maculatus, (Muller) ! Buff,, PL Enl. 453, fig. 2. 



27. Muscicapa atra, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 169, (1776.) 



Muscicapa rufiventris, Gm,, Syst. Nat. i, p. 941, (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 

 572, fig. 3, 



28. Muscicapa Tyrannulus, Muller, Syst, Nat. Supp. p, 169, (1776.) 



Muscicapa Aurora, Bodd., Tab, PL EnL p, 34, (1783.) 

 Muscicapa ferox, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p, 934, (1788.) 

 Myiarchus Tyrannulus, (Muller) I Buff., PL EuL 571, fig. 1. 

 1864.] 




256 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



29. MusciCAPA PITBP0KATA, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Sapp. p. 169, (1776.) 



Muscicapa cruenta, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 23, (1783.) 

 Muscicapa rubricoUis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 933, (1788.) 

 Querula purpurata, (Muller) I Buflf., PI. Enl. 381. 



30. Muscicapa fusca, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 170, (1776.) 



Muscicapa fusca, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 33, (1783.) Buflf., PI. Enl. 568, 



fig. 2. 

 Muscicapa petechia, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 948, (1788.) 



31. Muscicapa spurca, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 170, (1776.) 



Buflf., PI. Enl. 567, fig. 1. Muscicapa senegalensis, Linn. 



32. Muscicapa nitida, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 170, (1776.) 



Buflf., PI. Enl. 567, fig. 2. Held to be same as last. 



33. Muscicapa ctanea, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 170, (1776.) 



Muscicapa melanoptera, Gm.. Syst. Nat. i. p. 939, (1788. > Buflf., PL 

 Enl. 567, fig. 3. 



34. Muscicapa maculata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 171, (1776.) 



Buflf., PI. Enl. 565, figs. 2, 3. M. atricapilla, Linn. 

 Prof. Muller uses tMs name twice. See above. No. 26. 



35. Muscicapa cinerea, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 171, (1776.) 



Muscicapa kinki, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 31, (1783.) Buflf., PI. Enl. 541. 

 Muscicapa cana, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 940, ( 1788.) 



36. Muscicapa vibidis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 171, )1776.) 



Muscicapa cristata, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 938, (1788.) Buff., PL Enl. 

 573, fig. 2. 



37. Muscicapa Bourbonnensis, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 171, (1776.) 



Muscicapa Borbonica, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 939, (1788.) Buflf., PL EnL 

 573, fig. 1. 



38. Muscicapa arausiaca, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 171, (1776.) 



Muscicapa fusca, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 34, (1783.) Buflf., PL Enl. 574, 



fig. 1. 

 Muscicapa fuliginosa, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 932, (1788.) 



39. Muscicapa fasciata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 172, (1776.) 



Muscicapa nsvia, Bodd., Tab. PL Enl. p. 34, (1783.) Buff., PL Enl. 574 



fig. 3. 

 Muscicapa virgata, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 948, (1788.) 



40. Muscicapa pileata, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 172, (1776.) 



Muscicapa agilis, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 948, (1788.) Buflf., PL EnL 574, 



fig. 2. 

 Muscicapa oliva, Bodd., Tab. PL EnL p. 34, (1783.) 



114. Genus MOTACILLA. 



50. Motacilla boarula, Linn., Mant. p. 527, (1771.) 



51. Motacilla caffra, Linn., Mant. p. 527, (1771.) 



52. Motacilla maura, Pall., Trav. iL p. 708, (1773.) 



53. Motacilla cyanura, PalL, Trav. ii. p. 709, (1773.) 



54. Motacilla grisea, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 175, (1776.) 



Edwards, Birds, pi. 259. 



Motacilla sulpliurea, Bechst., Naturg. Dents, iii. p. 459, (1807.) 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



55. MoTACiLLA FUSCA, MiiUer, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 175, (1776.) 



Motacilla chrysocephala, Qm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 971, (1788.) Buflf., PI. 

 Enl. 58, fig. 3. 

 Motacilla aurantia, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 4, (1783.) 



56. Motacilla tricoloka, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 175, (1776.) 



Motacilla nigra, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 24, (1783.) Buflf., PI. Enl. 391, 



fig. 2. 

 Motacilla multicolor, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 972, (1788.) 



57. Motacilla cbistata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 176, (1776.) 



Motacilla galeata, Bodd., Tab. PI. Enl. p. 24, (1783.) Buflf., PI. Bnl. 



391, fig. 1. 

 Motacilla cristata, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 972, (1788.) 



115. Genus PIPRA. 



14. Pipra rubra, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 177, (1776.) 



Buflf., PI. Enl. 34, fig. 3. P. erythrocephala, Linn. 



15. PiPBA melanocephala, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 177, (1776.) 



Manacus gutturosus, Bouap., Consp. Av. i. p. 171, (1850.) Buff., PL 

 Enl. 303, fig. 1. 



16. Pipra plumata, Miiller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 177, (1776.) 



Buflf. PI. Enl. 303, fig. 2. Pipra pareola, Linn, (/uw.) 



116. Genus PARUS. 



15. Parus erectus, Muller, Syst. Nat. Supp. p. 178, (1776.) 

 Buflf., PI. Enl. 3, fig. 2. P. coeruleus, Linn. 



117. Genus HIRUNDO. 



13. Hirundo daurica, Linn., Mant. p. 528, (1771.) 



14. Hirundo alpestris. Pall., Trav. ii. p. 709, (1778.) 



In the preceding list, I liave not given, as entitled to consideration on 

 account of priority, any names which are to be considered doubtful according: 

 to my present knowledge. At this particular time, I may be allowed to say, 

 however, that I have various other authors in view for introduction to orni- 

 thological society, without being as yet quite sure what figure they will make, 

 nor what established relations they may disturb. 



lu the "Delicise Naturae Selectae," Prof. Muller is associated with Georg 

 Wolfgang Enorr, and the work is sometimes quoted as that of the latter 

 named author. It is mainly a series of Illustrations in the various classes of 

 Zoology ; and many of them are excellent colored plates, especially those of 

 Oustacea, Insects and Minerals. This work only relates to Ornithology in 

 giviuff figures of the following species : 



'^ PI, 1, Trochilus moschitus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 192, (1766.) 

 " mellisuga, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 192, (1766.) 



. " ruber, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 193, (1766.) 



1, 1. Struthio Camelus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 265, (1766.) 

 1, 2. Diomedia demersa, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 214, (1766.) 

 1, 3. Falco Gyrfalco, Linn. ? 

 1, 4. Buceros galeatus, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 360, (1788.) 



" ruficoUis, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. iv. p. 600, (1816.) 

 1, 5. Paradisea regia, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p» 166, (1766.) 

 1, 6. Ardea Grus, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 234, (1766.) 



1864.] 17 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Novemher \st, 

 Mr. Cassin in the Chair. 



Fourteen members present. 



Mr. Leslie exhibited specimens of limestone rock, containing fossil 

 coral, charged with petroleum, from the base of the Devonian forma- 

 tion, near Lake Erie, western New York. He also exhibited a speci- 

 men of petroleum from the first well opened at Erie, Pa., on probably 

 the same horizon as that of the former specimens. The oil was ob- 

 tained at a depth of 750 feet. 



JVovember Sth. 

 Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 

 Nine members present. 



November Ibth. 



Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " On a new Cormo- 

 rant from the Farralone Islands, California." By J. Gr. C:oper, M. D. 



Novemher 22d. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " Synopsis of the 

 tastern American Sharks." By Theo. Gill. 



November 2dth. 



Vice-President Bridges in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



On report of the respective committees the foUowioi; papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Synopsis of the Eastern American SHABK3. 



BY THEODORE GILL. 



In the present article, I indicate the imperfection of our krinwledfje respectltij: 

 the American Sharks, and have endeavored, as far as possible, with my limited 

 raaterinls, to rectity the synonymy. It will be perceived that I have connected 

 names, proposed by Mitchill and others, with species belong! np^ to different 

 fAmilies from those to which they had been previously referred. No specific 

 contradiction in the descriptions existing, and the diagnoses esaentiiilly agree- 

 ing with the species, it is probable that in such cases the generic relations of 

 the species were atsumed without verification of the generic characters. But 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



when, as in the case of Carcharias griseus^ of Mr. Ayres, the generic position is 

 not only assumed, but the characters forced to agree with it, tyros might be 

 readily misled, and only knowledge of correlation of essential characters will 

 enable the scientist to arrive at correct conclusions. As I have had the power 

 of examining Odontaspidoids from the same neighborhood which agree, in fa- 

 mily characters, with those species described by scientific naturalists, and 

 which essentially agree in other respects with Mr. Ayres' description, I identify 

 them with his species without hesitation, although I cannot adopt the name, 

 since it had received two others previously. I may add that its true relations 

 have been appreciated by both Messrs. Desor and Storer. 



As already intimated, this contribution must be considered rather as an ex- 

 position of our present ignorance of the species, than the embodiment of the 

 correct nomenclature. It is not too much to say that the titles of half the spe- 

 cies to their names require to be confirmed. Although I have seen more or 

 less of most of these species, the want of opportunity to compare them with 

 others, and the critical nature of the characters distinctive of species in this 

 order, forbid the idea of correctness in every instance. As, however, much good 

 way often be done by the mere exposition of our deficiencies, this article is 

 submitted with the hope that it may at least excite investigation. 

 The synonymy of the American forms is alone introduced. 



I. Pectoral fin with the base entire in front... SQUALL 



A. Anal fin present. 



tt. Caudal lunate ; tail keeled on one side Lamnoid^. 



oLtt. Caudal with the upper lobe much elongated. 

 0. Branchial apertures entirely in front of 



pectorals Odontaspidoid>«. 



P0. Branchial aperture behind above pectoral. 

 y. Caudal exceedingly long. Eyes with- 

 out nictitant membrane AlopecoidjB. 



■yy. Caudal moderately elongated. Eyes 

 with nictitant membrane. 



Head laterally produced Cbstbaoiontoid*. 



Head normally formed GalkorhinoidjK. 



AA. Anal fin obsolete. 



Dorsals each armed in front with spine SpiNACOiOiB. 



Dorsals unarmed SoYMNOiDiS. 



IL Pectoral fin with with the base cleft in front RHIN^. 



RHIMOIDiB. 



LAM NO ID ^, Miill. and Henle. 

 CETORHININM Gill. 

 CETORHINUS Blainv. 

 Tetroras Raf., 1810 (desc. and name erroneous.) 

 Selache Cuv., 1817. 

 Selachus Yarrell. 



Cetorhincs maximds Blainv. 



Sqnalus maximus (L.) Fab., F. G. 130. Mit., Tr. N. Y. i. 486. 

 Squalus elephas Des., Journ. Ac. ii. 350. 

 Squalus rhinoceros Mit., 1828 (fide DeKay.) 

 Squalus (Selachel maximns Rich., F. B. iii. 291. 

 Squalus (Selachej elephas Storer, Rep. 407. 



♦ The figure of this Bpeciea, like the description, is thoroughly unreliablo; it is better, however, 

 than that of the Myliobatis bispinosus, iu which more atteution appears to hare been paid tu the 

 delineation of mathematical figures and lines than to the representation of nHture. 

 (See Boston Journal N. H., iv., pi. 13.) 



1864.] 




20(X PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Selachus maximus DeKay, N. Y. F. ir. 35*7 ; St. Syn. 254. 



Hab. Am. Greenland to New Jersey. 



If there is any actual difiPerence between the American and European represen* 

 tatives of this genus, they have not yet been pointed out ; the example of pre- 

 vious authors in referring both to C. maximus is, therefore, still followed. The 

 synonymy of the American fish is alone given. 



ISURIN^ Gill. 

 CARCHARODON A. Smith. 

 Carcharias obscurus Storer. Bn. Journ. ii. 558, (excl. syn.) 

 Carcharias Atwoodi Storer, Bn. Proc. 1848, p. 72. 



" The first dorsal fin is one foot in length." 



" The second dorsal is one inch long." " The anal fin is one inch long." 



"The upper lobe of the caudal fin measures two feet ever its curvature ; the 

 lower lobe measures one foot and a half." 



These measurements of the fish, called by Dr. Storer C. obscurus, are ineom' 

 patible with any form of the family of Galeorhinoidse ; the description is only 

 reconcilable with Carcharodon. I had, however, at one time supposed that it 

 might be referrible to Eulamia,* the notice of the dentition, except as to number 

 of teeth (A I) in which it agrees with no shark, being vaguely applicable. 



The Carcharias Atwoodi is also probably the same species, the anal being 

 said to be far behind the second dorsal, and thus distinguished from the " white 

 shark." Dr. Storer doubtless obtained his idea of the latter from Yarrell's 

 copy of Belon's figure, which erroneously represents a Carcharodon with the 

 anal opposed to that fin. 



Having been shown a tooth of a Oaleocerdo, said to have been taken from C. 

 Atwoodi, I have asked whether that species could have belonged to that genus, 

 but the position of the anal and the triangular teeth forbid such identification. 



ISUROPSIS Gill. 



ISOROFSIS GLAUOCS, Gill. 



Lamna punctata Storer, Boston Journ. ii. 534. Rep. 185, pi. 3, fig. 2. 



Not Squalus punctatus Mitch. \ 

 Oxyrhina Dekayi Gill, Cat. 60. 

 Isuropsis Dekayi Gill, Squall, 43. An. Lye. N. Y. viiL 153. 



Hab. Mass. ; New York. 



This species of the eastern coast is probably identical with Isuropsis glaucus, 

 said by Miiller and Henle to be a native of Java. As it has not. however, been 

 found there by the indefatigable Sleeker, and has been eliminated from the re- 

 cent enumeration of the species of the Archipelago, it is probable that such 

 habitat is erroneous, and that the specimen described was obtained from Sari- 

 nam. Prof. Poey has found apparently the same species at Cuba. 



ODONTASPIDOIDJS Gill. 

 EUGOMPHODUS Gill.J 



EUQOMPHODCS LITTORAHS, Gill. 



Squalus araericanus Mit., Trans. N. Y. i. 483 (not Shaw.) 



• The Carcharias obscurus (Storer) must be coasidered under two beads : 



Ist. The fish mentioned in the report, which is a species of Carcharodon. 



2d. Another individual identified by Dr. Storer with Carcharias obscurus, and dissected by Dr. 

 Wyman, whose description (Boston Proc. iv. 123, 1861) of its viscera, Ac, indicates that it belonged 

 to the Gahorhini. The specimen examined by that accomplished anatomist was doubtless the 

 £uiamia Milberti, and consequently related to the true Carcharias obscurus. 



t"The caudal fin very unequally divided, the upper section being almost Oirice as large as the 

 lower, and having a process on the lower side." Mitch. Trans. N. Y. i. 485. 



X Eugomphodus is distinguished from Carcharias (Rat.,) Triglochis or Odontaspis by the simple 

 first and fourth teeth of the upper jaw, as well as the first of the lower. The more anterior dor- 

 mis also leparate H from O. tavrus- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPBIA. 261 



Sqaalus littoralis Mit.^ Am. Monthly Mag. &c. ii. 328. 

 Squalus macrodus MiL, op. cit. ii. 328. 

 Carcharias littoralis DeKay, iv. 351. 

 Carcharias griseus Ayres, Boston Journ. iv. 293. 

 Odontaspis griseus Desor, Bost. Proc. ii. 264. 

 Eugomphodus griseus QUI, Cat. 60. 

 Odontaspis americanus Abbot, Proc. Ac. N. S. 



Eugomphodus littoralis Oill, op. cit. 1863, 333. • 



Hab. Mass. to New Jersey. 



ALOPECOIDJE. 



ALOPIAS Raf. 



Alopias V0LPB8, Bon. ' 



Thresher or long tailed Shark Mitch., Med. Rep. 2d hex., ii. *l*l. 

 Squalus Tulpes (L.) Mitch. 

 Carcharias vulpes DeK., iv. 348. 

 Alopias vulpes Storer, Syn. 253. 

 Hab. Mass. southwards. * 



CESTRA CIONTOID^. 



CESTRACION Klein. 

 Sphyma Raf., 1810. 

 Sphyrnias Raf., 1815. 

 Cestrorhinus Blainv., 1816. 

 Zygaena Cuv., 1817. 

 Platysqualus ^Sir., 1839. 

 Sphyra Vanderhoeven. 



I 



Cbstracion zyg^na, Gill. 



Squalus zygaena L. Mitch., Trans. N. Y. i. 482. 

 Zygaena malleus Cuv. 

 Sphyrna zygaena M. and H. 

 Sphyrnias zygaena Chay. 

 Zygaena subarcuatus Storer. 

 Cestracion subarcuatus Gill, Cat. 

 Cestracion zygaena Oill, Squall. 

 Hab, Eastern coast generally. 



RENICEPS Gill. 



Renioeps tiburo Gill. 

 Squalus tiburo Linn. 

 Cestrorhinus tiburo Blainv. 

 Zygaena tiburo Val. 

 Sphyrna tiburo M. and H. 

 Sphyrnias tiburo Oray. 

 Cestracion tiburo Gill, Cat. 

 Keniceps tiburo Gill, Squali. 

 Hab. New York southwards. 



GALEORHmOID^ Gill. 



GALEORBININ^ Gill. 



GALEORHINI. 



EULAMIA Gill. 

 Carcharias Cuv., (not Raf.) ' 



1864.] 




262 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



EULAUIA MlLBEBTI GUI. 



Squalus carcharias Mit. 



Carcharias (Prionodon) Milberti ( Val.) M. and H. 38. 



Carcharias cseruleus DeKay, 349, pi. 61, f. 200. 



Lamna caudata DeKay, 354, pi. 62, f. 205. 



Squalus (Carcharinus) caudata Gray, 44 (excl. sjn.) 



Squalus (Carcharinus caeruleus Gray, 44. 



Squalus (Carcharinus) Milberti Gray 45. 



Squalus* Milberti Gill, Cat 59. 



Squalus cajruleus Gill, Cat. 59. 



Eulamia Milberti Gill, Squali 44. 



The specific name here adopted was applied in MSS. by Valenciennes to a 

 specimen sent from New York by Milbert, and was retained for a species to 

 which that specimen, one from Leyden and one in the Museum of Berlin, ob- 

 tained by Hemprich and Ehrenberg, were referred. The specimen on which the 

 description and measurements were especially based is not specified. The de- 

 scription agrees quite well with the Carcharias cseruleus of DeKay. 



The Carcharias cxruleus was established on a young female, and the Lamna 

 caudata on the figure of an adult female obtained from Mr. Brevoort, to whom 

 >! have been indebted for the information. 



That gentleman has shown to me the original drawing of which DeKay's fig- 

 ure was a professed copy. It is drawn with Mr. Brevoort's wonted accuracy, and 

 distinctly represents the last branchial apertures above the pectoral fins ; the 

 species is, therefore, a true Eulamia, as its form indicates, and as was suspected 

 by Dr. Gray. 



With the European form, Nardo has identified his Squalus plumbeus as well as 

 the S. Ccecchia of Chiereghin. 



PLATYPODON Gill. 



Platypodon obscukus Gill. 

 Squalus obscurus Les. 

 Carcharias obscurus Dekay, (not Storer.) 

 Carcharias (Prionodon) obscurus M. &ad.E. 

 Squalus (Carcharinus) obscurus Gray. 



Messrs. Putnam and Nason have favored me with notices and partial figures 

 of a shark taken on the coast, and preserved in the Museum of Williamstown 

 College, which appeared to apply to this species. It is scarcely necessary to 

 remark, that the teeth, represented by Lesueur, have been reversed, the wider 

 one belonging to the upper and the narrow to the lower jaw. 



APRIONODON Gill. 



ApRIONODON PtTNCTATUS Gill. 



Squalus punctatus Mitch. Trans. N. Y. i. 484. 

 Carcharias (Aprion) isodon ( Val.) M. and H., 32. 

 Squalus (Aprion) isodon Gray, 43. 

 Aprionodon punctatus Gill, Cat. 



Hab.—l^G^ York. 



" Iris, oblong and vertical. 



" Teeth small, triangular and without jagged edges, 



" First dorsal situated about the middle of the back. The second dor- 

 sal membranous, somewhat adipose, and of a rhomboidal figure. - An 

 anal fin corresponding (opposite) to the second dorsal. 



"The caudal fin very unequally divided ; the upper section being almost thrice 

 as large as the lower, and having a process on the lower side." (Mitchill.) 



The Squalus punctatus, therefore, cannot be a species of Lamna as long sup- 

 posed nor yet a species of Eulamia, Platypodon, or even Scoliodon, with which, 

 among known American species, it can alone have affinities. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



The habitat of C. iaodon has not been specified ; but as the specimen oa 

 which it was founded was sent by Mr. Milbert, it was probably obtained at 

 New York. 



SCOLIODON M. and H. 



SCOLIODON TEBB^-NOV^ Gill. 



Squalus (Carcharias) terrae-novae Sich. 

 Scoliodon terra-novae Gill, Cat. 



Hab. — Newfoundland and New York. 



As already indicated by Miiller and Henle, (p. 189), the ^S^. terrse-novm of Rich- 

 ardson evidently belongs to the genus Scoliodon as now understood, and has 

 no affinity with Lamna to which it has been referred by several authors.* 



GALEOCERDO M. and H. 

 Boreogaleus Oill. 



Galeocebdo tighinus M and H. 

 Galeas maculatus Ranz. 



To this species I refer two jaws, said to have been obtained on the eastern 

 coast, and others from the West Indies, Lower California and the Western Pa- 

 cific. The jaws are from adult fishes, and resemble in the form of the teeth 

 the G. arcticus. 



Miiller and Henle distinguish two species of Galeocerdo. 



G' tigrinui with, 1, a moderate flat snout; 2, teeth 25^ coarsely serrate, and 

 the unpaired one little bent, and with an entire terminal point ; 3, elongated 

 caudal ; 4, spotted body ; 5, last two branchial apertures above the pectorals ; 

 6, anal fin, with the anterior lobe little produced and rounded. 



G. arcticus with, 1, a very short snout ; 2, teeth pi?, finely crenulated, the un- 

 paired teeth curved and crenulated throughout; 3, caudal moderate; 4. imma- 

 culate body ; 5, fifth branchial aperture only above the pectorals ; 6, anal with 

 its anterior lobe much produced and pointed. 



Placing an undue value on these diflFerences, I formerly proposed to generi- 

 cally distinguish G. arcticus. 



To Prof. Poey I am indebted for the figure of an adult Galeocerdo, exhibiting 

 the gills and anal fin of G. tigrinus, but the form and teeth of G. arcticus ; he 

 believes that his fish is only the adult form of G. tigrinus, aud I am obliged to 

 agree with him in this view. The body, and especially the caudal and snout, 

 became abbreviated with age, and the teeth change. The jaws seen by me 

 exhibit variations in number from 21 to 2.B, but none 25. Can the latter for- 



'-i 5 



mula be the result of a typographical error ? 



MUSTELINJS Bon. 

 MUSTELUS Cuv. 



MtJSTELUs CANI3 Dekay. 

 Squalus canis Mitch. Trans. N. Y. i. 486. 

 Mustelus canis Dekay. 

 Hab. — Eastern coast. 



SPINACOIDJE Owen. 

 SQUALUS Art. Raf. 

 Squalus ambeicanus Gill. 

 Squalus acanthias Mitch, (vix auct.) 



* The iSf. terrse-novx and Lamna pwictata (^priemof^on)— Qaleorhinoids — have been regardei *» 

 identical and belonging to the genus Lamna. 



1864.] 




264 PBO0EEDING8 OF THE ACADEMY OF ♦ 



Spinax acanthias ? Dekay. 

 Acanthias americanns St. Syn. 254. 

 Squalus americanus Gill, Proc. Acad. 1862. 

 Hab. — Eastern coast generally. 



CENTROSCYLLIUM M. and H. 



Gbntrosctllioh Fabbicii M. and H. 



Sqnalns acanthias Fab. (not L.) 

 Spinax Fabricii Reinh. 

 Oentroscyllium Fabricii M. and H. Flag. 

 Hab. — Greenlan d. 



SCYMNOIDJE* Owen. 

 SOMNIOSUS Les. 



SOMNIOSOS MICROCBPHALDS Gill. 



.Squalus microcephalus Bl. Schn. 135. 



Squalus borealis Scoresby, i. 358 ; xv. 3, 4. 



Scy nanus borealis Fleming, 166. 



Squalus (Scymnus) glacialis Faber, 23. 



Rcymnus micropterus VaL Nouv. Mem. i. 455, pi. xx. 



Squalus norwegianus Blainv, F. Fr. 61. 



Scymnus (Laemargus) borealis, M. and JI. 93. 



Dalatias (Somniosus) borealis Gray, 76. 



Somniosus microcephalus Gill, Cat. 



Somniosus brevipinna Les, 



Scymnus brevipinna Dekay. 



Leiodon echinatus Wood. 



Hob. — Greenland to Cape Cod. 



It is probable, as indicated in my catalogue, that the S. brevipinna is not dis 

 tinct from S. microcephalus. 



RfflNOlDJE Gill. 



RHINA Klein. 



Bhina Dduerili Gill. 

 Squativa Dumeril Lesueur. 

 Rhina Dumerili Gill, Cat. 

 J7a6.— New York ? 



Genus PLATYPODON Gill. 



Synonymy. 

 :=PIalypodon Gill, Analytical Synopsis of the order of Squali, p. 35 ; in An- 

 nals of the Lyceum of Nat. Hist, of New York, vol. viii. p. 401, 1861. 

 Carcharias (Prionodon), sp. Miiller and Ilenle. 

 Squalus (Prionodon), sp. Foey. 

 Isoplagiodon, sp. Gill. 



Body slender and fusiform in profile, tapering behind. 



Scales tricuspid, surmounted by three keels terminating with the cusps. 



• The family Scymnoidae is represented by five distinct genera. 



1. Scymnus. 



2. Isistius {Sci/mnus brcuiliensis M. and H.) distingnished by its similar and posterior dorsals, 

 Ac. 



3. Somniofias. 



4. Euprotomicrii!! {Scymnus Labordii M and H.) with teeth like Somniosus, bat in mod«rat« 

 number (c.2.3) and very small first dorsal. 



&. Bhinoscymnus (_Scymmu roslralus Bisso) distinguished by its dorsals, Ac. 



[Nov. 




^ NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Ilead oblong, with the snout produced, oblong, gradually narrowed, and 

 with its periphery convex. Eyes moderate, with the pupil vertical. Nostrils 

 nearer the front of the mouth than the snout, nearly rectangular to mouth, 

 with the anterior flap small and near the inner angle. 



Mouth moderate, but convex in front, and wider than deep. 



Teelk of upper and lower jaws dissimilar; of each jaw mostly similar, but 

 smaller and more oblique towards the corners of the mouth ; two symmetrical 

 front ones in upper, an unpaired one in lower jaw ; the two front teeth of the 

 upper jaw inclined towards each other ; the rest serrated, oblique, rectilinear or 

 nearly so along the inner edge, and with an obtusely angled emargination at the 

 outer edge, the lower branch of which forms the so-called heel. Lower jaw 

 with a small azygous erect tooth at symphisis ; the rest with broad bases and 

 narrow oblique entire or weakly crenulated cusps, inclining more as they re- 

 cede from the symphisis. 



Branchial apertures moderate; the fourth, typically, nearly above the outer 

 base of the pectoral fin. 



Dorsal fins dissimilar ; the first nearly midway between the pectoral and 

 ventral fins, or little nearer the former, moderate, obtusely produced at the 

 anterior angle, and acutely prolonged at the posterior ; the second small, narrow, 

 produced acutely from the posterior angle. 



Anal fin nearly opposite the second dorsal, slightly larger than the latter, 

 obtusely enlarged at the anterior angle, acutely produced at the posterior. 



Caudal^a above with a pit at base, normally prolonged, and with a moderate 

 lower lobe, narrow towards its rounded apex. 



Pectoral fins moderate, but narrowed towards the rounded point, with the 

 inner angle little produced. 



Ventral fins moderate, rhomboidal. 



Type. — Platypodon menisorrah Gill. 



Syn. — Carcharias (Prionodon) menisorrah Milller and Henle. 



This genus was first named in the "Analytical Synopsis of the Order of 

 Squali," but no diagnosis was there given. Platypodon differs from Isoplagiodon 

 in the dissimilarity of the teeth of the two jaws, the two paired teeth of the 

 front jaw, and, perhaps, in the form of the mouth and narrower caudal portion 

 of the tail. Squalus tiburo Poey, S. acronolus P. and S. obscurus Les., belong 

 to it. 



Notes of an Examination of the Birds of the Subfamily COEBEBINS. 

 BY JOHN CASSIN. 



1. Genus COEREBA, Vieillot. ' 



Coereba, Vieill., Ois. d'Am. Sept. ii. p. 10 (1807). 



Arbelorhina, Cab., Schomb. Reisen iii. p. 675 (1848). 



This iiame is now almost universally applied to the group for which I use 

 it in this paper, and of which the bird described by Linnaeus as Certhia cyanea 

 may be presumed to be the type. Vieillot, as above cited, evidently adopts 

 it as a name for a group which he regarded as a genus, intending to include 

 that species (C. cyanea^ to which the name Guira-coereba Brasiliensibus had 

 been previously given by Marcgrave and Piso in Nat. Hist. Brasil, p. 212. It 

 was not the usage of Vieillot nor of numerous other binomial authors, inclu- 

 ding LinntBUS, to assume any one species as the type of a proposed or adopted 

 genus, and in my opinion there is a very considerable degree of impropriety, 

 as well as injustice, in ascribing to those authors any other than their real 

 and palpable intentions. For genera, the names of which are adopted from 

 other authors and the same groups intended to be designated, those authors, 

 whether ante-Linnsean or other non-binomial, (or any other,) ought to be con- 



1864.] 




266 PEOOEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF ^ 



suited and tbe types ascertained in that manner, whenever it becomes neces- 

 sary. 



It will be found on reference to Ois. d'Am., Sept., as cited above, that the 

 only species of his genus Coereba given by Vieillotis Coereba jlaveola, supposed 

 to be the same as Certhia jlaveola, Linnseus. According to the views of some 

 distinguished and judicious authors, that species should be regardsd as the 

 type of the genus, and the name Coereba should therefore be applied to a group 

 since designated, and now well known as Certhiola. In such view, I cannot 

 coincide. 



Dr. Cabanis, as above, proposes the name Arbelorhina as a substitute for 

 Coereba, apparently objecting to the barbarous origin of the latter. His type 

 is C. cyanea. 



1. CoEKEBA CYANEA, (Linuaeus.) 



Certhia cyanea, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 188 (1766). 



Certhia flavipes, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 472 (1788). 



Certhia cyanogastra. Lath., Ind. Orn. i. p. 295 (1790). 



Certhia armillata, Sparrm., Mus. Carls., No. 36 (1787). 



Coereba carneipes, Sclater., Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1859, p. 376.? 



Arbelorhina brevipes et eximia, Cab., Mus. Hein. i. p. 96 (1850). ? 

 Aud. and Vieill., Ois. Dor. ii. pi, 41, 42, 43. Vieill., Gal. i.pl. 176. Sparrm., 

 Mus. Carls., pi. 36. Buff., PL Enl. 83, lig. 2. Edwards' Birds, vi. pL 264, 

 fig. 1. Hahn., Voegel. pt. xii. pi. 3. Reich., Voeg. fig. 3767, 3768, 3769. 



Numerous specimens of this species are in the Museum of the Academy, 

 variously labelled Cayenne, Brazil, Trinidad, Venezuela, and Nicaragua, of 

 which localities I know several to be correct. There is appreciable difference 

 between them in the size and degree of curve in the bills, but all are exceed- 

 ingly alike in colors. Specimens from Venezuela have the largest bills, and 

 it happens also that one specimen in the Massena collection, marked " Carac- 

 cas," in the hand-writing of M. Victor Massena, has the smallest. These 

 large-billed specimens from Venezuela may be entitled to specific distinction, 

 and, in addition to their larger size, seem to have with some uniformity a 

 greater extent of the black of the lores, completely enclosing the eye and ex- 

 tending behind it. A specimen from Panama, belonging to the Smithsonian 

 Institution, has the same character, but is smaller in all its parts. The Mexican 

 and Central American bird may also be distinct, and entitled to the name 

 given by Dr. Sclater, as above cited, but probably not on account of having 

 the legs red. I suspect that the adult bird always has the legs of that color, 

 in whatever locality ; and. in a very interesting and valuable paper on the 

 birds of the West Indies, Mr. E. Cavendish Taylor says of the bird found in 

 Trinidad : " Its legs and feet are bright red." (Ibis, 1864, p. 81). 



There are at present fourteen mounted specimens of this species in the 

 Academy Museum, and numerous others in skins, not exhibited. Notwith- 

 standing the small differences in specimens, as above, I find it impossible to 

 distinguish Dr. Cabanis' species brevipes and eximia in the collection. 



2. Coereba CjErclea (Linnaeus). 



Certhia caerulea, Linn., Syst. Nat., i. p. 118 (1758). 

 Certhia ochrochlora, Gm., Syst. Nat, i. p. 472 (1788). 

 Certhia surinamensis, Lath., Ind. Orn., i. p. 295 (1790). 

 Fringilla cyanomelas, Gm., Syst. Nat., ii. p. 924 (1788). 

 Aud. et Vieill., Ois. Dor., ii. pi. 44, 45. Edwards' Birds, i. pi. 21, fig. 1. 

 Sparrm., Mus. Carls., pi. 82. Hahn's Voeg., pt. xii. pi. 4. Reich. Voeg., fig. 

 3770,3771. 



Six specimens, nearly all of which are labelled " Cayenne." For this spe- 

 cies I take specimens with a medium-sized bill, as nearly as possible like the 

 figure in Edwards' Birds, above cited, on which this species is founded. 



[Nov. 




• NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



3. CoERSBA LONGiEOSTEis, (Cabanis). 



Arbelorhina longirostris, Cab., Mus. Hein., p. 96 (1851). 



Coereba trinitatis, Bonap., Compt. Rend., 1854, p. 258. 

 Seven specimens, all labelled " Trinidad" and " Caraccas," and strongly 

 characterised by their long and stout bills. The females seem to have the 

 throat more clearly ochre-yellow than in those of other species, and perhaps 

 the longitudinal stripes on the under surface of the body wider and less nu- 

 merous. The Prince Bonaparte cites " Sparrm., Mus. Carls., pi. 80," as pos- 

 sibly this species ; but evidently erroneously, as that plate (Mus. Carls., pi. 

 80,) represents the very smallest of Sparrmann's proposed species. 



4. Coereba brevirostris, (Cabanis). 



Arbelorhina brevirostris, Cab., Mus. Hein., p. 96. 

 Four specimens, labelled "Bogota," " Guayaquil," and " Cayenne." That 

 from Guayaquil may be distinct, and seems to have the black gular patch 

 narrower ; the black space on the lores seems to be larger, and the light blue 

 of the forehead ends in a sharp angle at the base of the bill. 



5. Coereba nitida, Hartlaub. 



Coereba nitida, Hartl., Rev. Zool., 1847, p. 84. 



Jard. Orn. Contr., 1850, pi. 66, fig. 1. Reich. Voeg.; fig. 3112. 



Five specimens, differing in size somewhat, but very similar in plumage. 

 One specimen, which is the original of the figure in Jardine's Contributions, 

 cited above, is labelled " Upper Amazon ;" two others are labelled " Guaya- 

 quil," and two are from Peru, presented by Hon. John Randolph Clay, late 

 U. S. Minister to that Republic. 



One specimen from Guayaquil, and the specimens from Peru, are very con- 

 siderably the largest, — quite sufficiently so to be regarded as distinct, on the 

 terms which seem to prevail in this genus. The specimen figured as above 

 is the smallest, though apparently quite adult. The figure alluded to is a 

 mere caricature ; the wing too long, the tail too short, and the transverse 

 black bars awkwardly attempted to be shown on the abdomen are purely 

 imaginary, there being no such in the specimen. 



9 . Entire upper parts green, rather lighter than in the female of C. coeru- 

 lea and C. longirostris. Under parts dull white, strongly tinged with ochre 

 yellow on the throat and breast and under tail coverts ; longitudinally striped 

 with green on the sides and abdomen. Wing brownish black, all the quills 

 widely edged with green ; tail brownish-black, two middle feathers green, 

 and all the other feathers widely edged, and tipped with green. Bill dark ; 

 legs light colored. 



6. CoERElJA LuciDA, Sclatcr. 



Coereba lucida, Sclat., Ibis, 1859, p. 14. 

 Strictly of the same general form as the preceding, but singularly different 

 in color, and in all respects as described by Dr. Sclater, as above cited. 

 Specimens in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution from Panama. 



2. Genus CHLOROPHANES, Reichenbach, Handb. Spec. Orn. pt. t. 

 p. 233, (1853.) 



1. Chlorophanes spiza, (Linnaeus.) 



Motacilla Spiza, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 188, (1758.) 



Coereba atricapilla, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. xiv. p. 50, (1817.) 



Turdus micans, Hahn, Voegel aus Asien, &c., pt. iii. (1819.) 



Nectatinia mitrata, Licht. Verz. p. 15, (1823.) 



" Coereba melanocephala, Vieill." DeWeid, Beitr. Naturg. Bras. iii. p. 



771, (1831.) 

 Chlorophanes guatemalensis, Sclat. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1861, p. 129. 

 Edwards' Birds i., pi. 25, pi. 348. Hahn's Voegel, pt. iii. pi. 1. Buff. PI. 



1864.] 




268 PEOCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Enl. 5T8, fig. 2, 682, fig. 1. Merrem.Icon. Av., pi. 5. Aud. & Vieill. Ois. dor. 

 ii. pi. 47, 48, 49. Reich. Voeg., fig. 3746, 3747. 



Eighteen mounted specimens in Acad. Mus. Of this apparently abundant 

 and widely diffused species, there are four varieties in the specimens before me, 

 which, though I cannot at present regard them as species, appear to be ■well 

 marked, and may be sufficiently constant and perhaps local, to be entitled to 

 specific distinction. On this view of specific identity, the names above are 

 given as synonymes, the first name being that of Linnaeus, in the tentTi edi- 

 tion of Systema Naturae, in which the species is founded on Edwards' plate 

 25, fig. 1, and no other authority cited, except fig. 2 of the same plate, which 

 is given as a variety. In the twelfth edition, the name Spiza is continued, and 

 the tenth edition cited, Brisson being cited only as an additional synomyme. 

 This species is in nowise founded on either Brisson's description nor on 

 Seba's figure, and consequently the remarks of several distinguished orni- 

 thologists, and the adoption by them of Vieillot's name atricapillus are not 

 correct. I distinguish the following varieties : 



a. C. Spiza, (Linnaeus.) Edwards' Birds i., pi. 25. 



Very nearly of the size given by Edwards in the plate cited, and smaller 

 than C. ffuatemalensis, Sclater. The black of the head extending to the occi- 

 put, wings and tail brownish black, the feathers of the latter and quills edged 

 externally with green. All other parts of the plumage fine lustrous yellowish 

 green, occasionally with a bluish gloss in some lights. Total length, about 

 6J inches. "Cayenne," "Trinidad." 



b. C. GDATKMALKNSIS, Sclatcr. 



Larger than the preceding, and with the black of the head extending more 

 fully upon the occiput. The green of the plumage of a lighter shade. Total 

 length, about 5| inches. Guatemala, " Nicaragua," Mexico. 



«. 0. c^RULBSCBNS, nobis. Aud. & Vieill. Ois. Dor. pi. 47 ? 



Quite as large as C. ffuatemalensis, and with the black of the head having 

 about the same extent. All the plumage (except the black parts) bluish 

 green, especially to be observed on the under parts of the body. In all other 

 varieties the fine lustrous green of the plumage changes to blue in a limited 

 degree, but in this variety the blue color appears to be constant, and changes 

 to green in some exposures to the light. Total length about 5J inches. 

 Specimens in the Acad. Mus. are from M. D'Orbigny's collection, and are la- 

 belled, in the handwriting of M. Victor Massena, " C. Spiza ? No. 149, D'Or- 

 bigny, Juracares, Bolivia." 



d. C. MELANOPS, nobis. 



Smaller than either of the two varieties immediately preceding, and about 

 the size, or rather smaller than the first variety here given (C. Spiza). Black 

 of the head much restricted, and extending about half way only between the 

 front and occiput, or but little beyond the eyes. Green feathers of the occiput 

 and back of the neck having a strongly defined or scale-like character. Green 

 parts of the plumage much as in the variety C.;Siptza, but with the green edges 

 of the quills and tail feathers wider and more clearly defined. Total length 

 about five inches. Two specimens, (^ and 9) JQ Acad. Mus., labelled in 

 Europe, in a handwriting that I do not recognize: " 2873, 3045, Certhia Spi- 

 za ? Rio Negro, Ameriq. M^rid." 



S. Genus DACNIS, Ouvier, Reg. An., i. p. 396 (1817). 



Of this genus I have seen the following species : 



A. Cyanodacnis. 



1. Daokis cat ana, (Linnaeus). 



Motacilla cayana, Linn., Syst. Nat., i. p. 336 (1766). 



[Not. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA- 269 



Motacilla cyanocephala, Gm., Syst. Nat,, i. p. 990 (1788). 

 Dacnis cyanater, Less., Tr. d'Orn., i. p. 458 (1831). Puch., Rev. et Mag. 

 Zool., 1854, p. 70. 



Briss. Orn., iii. pi. 28, fig. 1, 4. Buff., PL Enl„ 578, fig. 1. Sw., Zool. 111., 

 ii. pL 117. 



Under this name I place numerous specimens of a common Brazilian spe- 

 cies, the males of which are clearly the bird figured by Swainson, as above 

 cited. It is not so clear to me, however, that they are precisely that figured 

 and described by either Brisson or Buffon. The former is the authority for 

 the species Motacilla cayana, Linn. (Briss. Orn., iii. p. 534), and I am not with- 

 out a suspicion that either a smaller species, next following in this paper, 

 or that D. coerebicolor, Sclater, is entitled to this name. The description by 

 Lesson is short, and applicable to both species, but relying on the locality 

 given by him, " Bresil," it is possible that his name, I>. cyanater, is the proper 

 designation for the present bird. 



This species is larger than that immediately following, and has the black 

 space on the back larger. It is well represented in Swainson's plate, cited 

 above, and is commonly brought in collections from Bahia and other localities 

 in Southern Brazil. 



2. Dacnis nigbipes, Pelzeln ? 



Dacnis nigripes, Pelzeln, Sitzungb. Akad. Vienna, 1856, p. 155? 

 Nectarinia bicolor, Becklemichew, Acta Akad. Moscow, vii. p. 378 (1828)? 



Edwards' Birds, vi. pi. 263. Beckl., Nouv. Mem. Acad. Moscow, vii.pl. 23 ? 

 Pelz. Sitzungb. Akad. Vienna, 1856, pi. 1, fig. 1.7 



This is, in my opinion, a species distinct from the preceding, though re- 

 sembling it in colors. It is smaller, and has the black space on the back 

 smaller and more strictly defined. It is figured by Edwards, as above cited, 

 and also seems to be the bird given by Becklemichew, whose name I should 

 be inclined to adopt, were it not anticipated by Vieillot, for the species of this 

 genus usually given as Dacnis plumbea, (Latham). It may also be the species 

 described and figured by that excellent ornithologist, M. Pelzeln, as above 

 cited, but the legs in dried specimens are not black. Ten specimens in the 

 Academy Museum I regard as this species. They are labelled as from Cay- 

 enne and Northern Brazil. 



3. Dacnis cltramarina, Lawrence. 



Dacnis ultramarina, Lawr., Proc. Acad., Phila., 1864, p. 106. 

 From the Isthmus of Panama. This is another species of the same group 

 as the two preceding, and resembling them in colors. It is, however, of a 

 different and deeper blue color, and has the black of the throat distinctly 

 tinged with green. It is described, and its peculiar specific characters are 

 stated with his usual precision and judgment by Mr. Lawrence, as cited 

 above. 



B. Polidacnis, 



3. Dacnis melamotis, Strickland. 



Dacnis melanotis, Strickl., Jard. Contr. Orn., 1851, p. 16. 

 "Dacnis angelica, De Filippi," Bonap., Comp. Av., i. p. 400 ? Sclater, 

 Ibis, 1863, p. 315? 

 Buff., PI. Enl., 669, fig. 2. Vieill., Gal., i. pi. 165. Buff., PI. Enl., 669, fig. 

 1 ? Reich., Voeg., fig. 3740. 

 Ten specimens, labelled " Cayenne " and " Rio Negro.'' 



5. Dacnis vendsta, Lawrence. 



Dacnis venusta, Lawr., Ann. Lye, N. Y., 1862, p. 464. 



Sclater's Ibis, 1863, pL 7. 



A beautiful species, of which the only specimens that I have seen are the 

 types (male and female) in the collection of Mr. Lawrence, kindly lent to me 



1864;] 




270 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



for examinatiOD by that gentleman. It is a strongly characteri^^ed species, 

 not intimately resembling any other at present known, and easily recognized 

 by its scarlet tibiee, which is quite a peculiar and curious character in this 

 group. From Panama, very handsomely figured in the Ibis, as above. 



4. Dacnis kgregia, Sclater. 



Dacnis egregia, Sclat., Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1854, p. 251. 

 Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, pi. 7. 



.One specimen, labelled " Columbie." A beautiful little species, of which 

 both sexes are very handsomely figured by Dr. Sclater, as above. 



5. Dacnis coEREBicoiiOR, Sclater. 



Dacnis coerebicolor, Sclat., Jard. Contr. Orn., 1851, p. 106. 

 Jard. Contr. Orn., 1852, pi. 93, fig. 2. 

 Three specimens, labelled " Bogota." 



C. Eudacnis. 



6. Dacnis flaviventris, D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye. 



Dacnis flaviventris, D'Orb. et Lafr., Mag. Zool., 1837, p. 31. 

 D'Orb., Voy. Am. Ois., pi. 13, fig. 2. Reich., Voeg., fig. 3749. 

 Two specimens, one of which is labelled " Peru," and the other " Upper 

 Amazon." 



7. Dacnis pulcherrima, Sclater. 



Dacnis pulcherrima, Sclat., Rev. Zool., 1853, p. 479. 



Nemosia torquata, Du Bus, Bull. Acad. Brux., xxii. p. 155 (1855). 

 Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, pi. 8. 



One specimen. This bird is, in my opinion, but doubtfully of this genus 

 and possibly more nearly allied to Nemosia. 



D. Ateleodacnie. 



8. Dacnis lkucogenys, Lafresnaye. 



Dacnis leucogcnys, Lafr., Rev. Zool., 1852, p. 470. 

 One specimen from Venezuela. A curious little species, easily recognized 

 by its white ears and white upper tail coverts, though apparently little known 

 to naturalists. 



9. Dacnis speciosa, (De Wied). 



Sylvia speciosa, De Wied, Beitr., iii. p. 708 (1831). 

 Dacnis analis, D'Orb. et Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1837, p. 21. 



Temm., PI. Col. 293, fig. 2. Jard. Contr. Orn., 1852, pi. 93, fig. 1. 



Four specimens, three of which are labelled as from Brazil. One specimen 

 (Massena Coll., No. 2-776,) may not be this species, though nearly allied. It 

 is darker colored, especially on the head and under parts of the body • the 

 latter character being particularly observable. It is without label stating 

 locality. This specimen is sufficiently dark-colored to resemble the pre- 

 ceding (Z>. Icitcogenyt), but has not the white ears and white upper tail coverte 

 of that species. Under tail coverts dark chestnut. 



10. Dacnis bicolob, (Vieillot). 



Sylvia bicolor, Vieill., Ois. d'Am., Sept., ii. p. 32 (1807). 

 Sylvia CTerulescens, De Wied, Bestr., iii. p. 713 (1831). 

 Sylvia plumbea. Lath., Ind. Orn., ii. p. 553 (1790)? 

 Vieill., Ois. d'Am., Sept., ii. pi. 90 bis. 



Numerous specimens, several of which are labelled "Cayenne." Undoubtedly 

 the species described and figured by Vieillot and the Prince de Wied but 

 very doubtfully that of Latham. The description by Latham, from a specimen 

 in the Leverian Museum, is short, but he says : " plumage above deep lead 

 color, nearly black," which is difficult to apply to this bird, though his name 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 271 



is usually given for it, and regarded as synonymous with those above given. 

 Latham saj's further: "native place uncertain," (Gen. Syn. Supp., p. 188). 



This species has the bill and general structure more Sylvia-form than 

 others of this group. 



11. Dacnis brevipennis, (Giraud). 



Helinaia brevipennis, Gir., Ann. Lyceum, N. Y., v. p. 40 (1850). 



Ann. Lye, N. Y., v. pi. 3, fig. 1. 



Three specimens, one of which is labelled "Cayenne." The smallest speciee 

 of this group, easily distinguished by the green color of the upper parts of 

 the body, and light blue head. Though well described and figured by my 

 friend Mr. Giraud, of New York, as above cited, this little bird seems to be 

 unknown to naturalists. It belongs strictly to the same group of species as 

 the two species immediately preceding, (Z>. speciosa and 2>. bicolor). I regard 

 it as possible that this bird is the female or young of D. speciosa. 



E. Hemidacnis. 

 Genus HEMIDACNIS, Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, p. 50 (1861). 



12. Dacnis albiventris, (Sclater). 



Pipridea albiventris, Sclat., Rev. et Mag. Zool., 1852, p. 8. 

 Hemidacnis albiventris, Sclat., Cat. Am. Birds, p. 50. 

 Jard. Contr. Orn.. 1852, pi. 100, fig. 2. 



Two specimens, adult and young, obtained for the Academy Museum by its 

 excellent members, Messrs. Geo. N. Lawrence and John G. Bell, of New York. 

 Both from Bogota. 



4. Genus CERTHIOLA, Sundeval, Vet. Acad. Handl., Stockholm, 1835, p. 99. 



1. Cbkthiolaflaveola, (LinnsBUs). 



Certhia flaveola, Linn., Syst. Nat., i. p, 119 (1758). 



Nectarinia antillensis. Less., Traite d'Orn., i. p. 304 (1831)? 

 Sloan, Jamaica, pi. 259. Edwards' Birds, pi. 122. 

 Numerous specimens from Jamaica and St. Thomas, West Indies. 



2. Ckrthiola bahamknsis, (Linnaeus). 



Certhia flaveola, /?. bahamensis, Linn., Syst. Nat., i. p. 187 (1766). 



Catesby, Carolina, pi. 59. 



Quite distinct, and easily recognized by Catesby's figure and the characters 

 pointed out by Prof. Reichenbach in Handb. Speciell. Orn., pt. v. p. 253, who 

 very clearly defines this species. 



3. Cbbthiola i,utkoi-a, Cabanis. 



Certhiola luteola. Cab., Mus. Hein., i. p. 96 (1850). 



Reich., VoUst. Nuturg. Vog., pi. 561, fig. 3822. 



Numerous specimens from the Island of Trinidad, which seem to be this 

 species. Others from Venezuela have the throat slightly darker, but are 

 otherwise very similar. 



4. Certhiola mexicana, Sclater. 



Certhiola mexicana, Sclat., Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1856, p. 286. 

 Resembling the preceding (C. luteola), but apparently distinct. Specimens 

 in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution and in the Academy Museum 

 are from Mexico. One specimen from Ecuador much resembles these Mexican 

 specimens. 



5. Certhiola martinicana, Reichenbach. 



Certhiola martinicana, Reich., Hanb. Spec. Orn., pt. v. p. 252 (1853). 

 Reich., Vollst. Naturg. Viig., fig. 3824. 

 Specimens from unknown localities, one of which ouly h labelled " N. An- 



1864.] 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tiUensis, Lesson, Cayenne." One specimen, evidently not in mature plumage, 

 has the superciliary stripes yellow, nearly uniform with the under parts of the 

 body, but is otherwise not different. This species seems to be characterized 

 by its white throat, which color is narrowly enclosed between the dark brown 

 of the cheeks. 



6. Cbrthiola chloropyga, Cabanis. 



Certhiola chloropyga. Cab. Mus. Hein., i. p. 97 (1850). 

 Reich., VoUst. Naturg. Vog., pi. 561, fig. 3826. Hahn's Voegel, pt. xi. pi. 4? 

 Numerous specimens from Brazil. Apparently an abundant and rather 

 widely diffused species. Total length about A\ inches. 



7. Certhiola odianensis, Cabanis. 



Certhiola guianensis. Cab., Mus. Hein., i. p. 97 (1850), 



Reich., Vo.-g., fig. 3825. 



Several specimens, one of which is labelled " Bresil." This species seems 

 to be one of the smallest of the group, the specimens before me being even 

 smaller than the measurements given by Dr. Reichenbach, (Spec. Orn., pt. v. 

 p. 252). Total length 3^ inches. 



The genus Certhiola is the most difficult of this group, and although the 

 species have been indicated with singular ability by Dr. Cabanis, and subse- 

 quently more fully described by Dr. Reichenbach, they are not to be dis- 

 tinguished in most cases (as at present described,) without careful scrutiny. 

 In addition to the preceding species, I have seen one other specimen, not in 

 good condition, in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, from Peru, 

 which is apparently another and probably undescribed species. 



5. Genus CONIROSTRUM, D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye, Mag. Zool., 1843. 



1. CoNiROSTRDM siTTicoLOR, Lafrcsnayc. 



Conirostrum sitticolor, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1840, p. 102. 



Dacnis rufocinerea, Bonap., " 1845," Consp. Av., i. p. 401 (1850). 



Conirostrum rufum, Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1843, p. 3 ? 



Conirostrum bicolor, Less. 

 Gray's Genera, i. pi. 34. Reich., Voeg., fig. 3751. 



Six specimens, from "Bogota" and " Colombie." One specimen shows a 

 tendency to C. rujum, which I have little doubt is the young of this species. 



2. Conirostrum rufdm, Lafresnaye. 



Conirostrum rufum, Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1843, p. 3. 

 Four specimens from Bogota. This bird is very probably the yoang of the 

 preceding. 



3. Conirostrum albifrons, Lafresnaye. 



Conirostrum albifrons, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1842, p. 301. 

 Conirostrum atrocyaneum, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1848, p. 9. 

 Conirostrum caeruleifrons, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1842, p. 302. 

 Gaerin's Mag. Zool., 1843, pi. 35. Reich., Voeg., fig. 3750. 

 Ten specimens, four of which are C. albifrons; four are clearly G. eaerulei' 

 frons, and two are intermediate, showing conclusively that the two are identi- 

 cal, as suggested by Dr. Sclater in Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1855, p. 138 ; 

 although in his Catalogue of American Birds (1862,) he continues to give 

 them as distinct species. 



4. Conirostrum cinkreum, D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye. 



Conirostrum cinereum, D'Orb. et Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1838, p. 25. 



Conirostrum Fraseri, Sclat., Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1858, p. 452 ? 

 D'Orb., Voy. Am. Mer. Ois., pi. 59, fig. 2. 



Several specimens, one of which, labelled " Tacna, Peru," is from Moos. 

 D'Orbigny's collection. Two others in a collection from Ecuador, recently 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



273 



presented by Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, seem to be C. Fraaeri, Sclater, as above, 

 and are only difiFerent in having the under parts of the body and the super- 

 ciliary lines more strongly tinged with rufous, though my impression is that 

 they are specifically identical with D'Orbigny's bird. 



One specimen in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution is the most 

 mature and strongly characterized that I have seen, and is very nearly as 

 represented in D'Orbigny's plate, above cited. It is quite possible that C. 

 Fraseri is the young of a species allied to the present, but not identical. 



6. Genus DIGLOSSA, Wagler, Isis, 1832, p. 280. 



A. Diglosaa. 



1. DiGLOSSA BARITULA, Wagler. 



Diglossa baritula, Wagl., Isis, 1832, p. 281. 

 Uncirostrum Brelayi, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 281. 

 Uncirostrum sittaceum, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1839, p. 292. 

 Gray's Gen. B., i. pi, 42. Reich., Voeg., fig. 3T62, 3763. 

 Allied to and resembling the next two species, but easily distinguished frcrm 

 either, when in adult plumage, by the darker shade of color of the upper parts, 

 and by the extension of the same color on the sides of the neck and throat, 

 though there is usually a narrow space on the latter communicating with and 

 of the same rufous as the under parts of the body. This species is about the 

 »ame size as D. similis, with which it can readily be confounded. It is smaller 

 than D. siUoides. Mr. Gray gives this little species with his usual great care 

 and accuracy in the plate above mentioned. 

 Specimens are labelled "Mexico." 



2. Diglossa similis, Lafresnaye. 



Diglossa similis, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1846, p. 318. 

 Diglossa hyperythra. Cab., Mus. Hein., i. p. 97 (1850). 



Reich., Voeg., fig. 3764. 



Numerous specimens, generally labelled " Bogota " and " Columbie." This 

 species is about the size of the preceding (J9. baritula), and much resembles 

 it, but is readily distinguishable by its throat being clear rufous, uniform with 

 the other under parts. It resembles, even in a greater degree, the next spe- 

 cies [D. ntloides), and in adult plumage is distinguishable only, so far as I 

 can see, by its smaller size. The female of this species seems to present a 

 peculiar character in having the under parts of the body with longitudinal 

 stripes of dull olive, not very distinct, but to be traced in all specimens that 

 have come under my notice. Dr. Reichenbach's figure, cited above, is a 

 good representation of this little bird. 



3. Diglossa sittoides, (D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye). 



Serrirostrum sittoides, D'Orb. et Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1838, p. 25. 

 Uncirostrum Orbignii, Boiss., Rev. Zool., 1840, p. 5 ? 



D'Orb., Voy. Am. Ois., pi. 58, fig. 3. Reich., Voeg., fig. 3766. 



Young birds, labelled " U. Orbignii," are in the Acad. Mus., but the adult 

 is in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, and is precisely as gjven by 

 Mons. D'Orbigny in the plate cited. This species is larger than either of the 

 two preceding species, but is exceedingly similar in other respects to D. si- 

 milis. The specimen now before me has the under parts rather paler rufous, 

 but is^ in fact, scarcely distinguishable from that species, [D. similis,) hj 

 any other character than its greater size, though I have no doubt that it is 

 quite distinct, specifically. From Bolivia. I regard it as possible that this 

 bird is the young or female of D. brunneiventris, Lafresnaye. 



B. Tephrodiglossa. 



4. Diglossa carbonaria, (D'Orbigny et Lafresnaye). 



Serrirostrum carbonarium, D'Orb. et Lafres., Mag. Zool., 1838j p. 25i 



1864.] 18 




274 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



D'Orb., Voy. Am. Ois.,pl. 58, fig. 1. Reich., Voeg., fig. 3760, 3161. 



Specimens labelled "Bolivia," one of which is from M. D'Orbigny's col- 

 lection. A curious and peculiar species, not intimately allied to, nor re- 

 sembling any other. It is accurately figured in the plate of M. D'Orbigny, 

 cited. 



C. Pyrrhodighssa. 



DiGtossA MT8TACALIS, Lafresnayc. 



Diglossa mystacalis, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1846, p. 318. 

 Reich., Voeg., fig. 3756. 



From Bolivia. One of the largest species, easily recognized by its black 



plumage, and rufous stripe from the base of the under mandible, on the side 



• of the neck, and its rufous under tail coverts. Accurately described by the 



Baron Lafresnaye, and faithfully represented in the plate of Dr. Reichenbach'a 



great work, as cited. 



6. DiGLOSSA BRtJNNEivENTRis, Lafrcsnaye. 



• Diglossa brunneiventris, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1846, p. 318. 

 " Diglossa brunneiventris, Des Murs," Lafres., as above. 



Des Murs, Icon. Orn., pi. 43. 



One specimen from Bolivia, presented by the Smithsonian Institution, in 

 the Museum of which I have seen others. This species is allied to the imme- 

 diately preceding (Z>. mystacalis), but is smaller, and has the entire under 

 parts fine rufous- cinnamon, which are black in that species. This bird may 

 be the adult of D. sittoides. 



D. Cyanodiglossa. 



.7. Diglossa personata, (Fraser). 



Agrilorhinus personatus, Fras., Proc, Zool. Soc, London, 1840, p. 23. 

 Uncirostrum cyaneum, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1840, p. 102. 

 Diglossa melanops, Tschudi. Wiegm. Archiv, 1844, p. 294. 

 Reich., Voeg., fig. 3752, 3753. 



Specimens labelled "Bogota" and " Columbie," generally very similar to 

 each other, but one specimen, perhaps not adult, has little of the black front 

 cheeks and throat which so strongly characterize this species, those parts 

 being blue, nearly uniform with the entire other plumage. In fact, until un- 

 doubted specimens of the next immediately succeeding {D. indigotica) were 

 received at the Acad. Mus., I had regarded it, doubtfully, as that species, 

 though mifch too large. This specimen resembles Reichenbach's fig. 3752, 

 cited above. 



8. Diglossa indigotica, Sclater. 



Diglossa indigotica, Sclat., Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., xvii. p. 467 (1856). 

 "Diglossa indigotica, Verreaux MSS." Sclat., as above. 

 Sclater, Cat. Am. Birds, pi. 6. 



Two specimens in a collection from Ecuador recently presented to the 

 Academy by its generous and steadfast patron. Dr. Thomas B. Wilson. This 

 species somewhat resembles the preceding, but is much smaller, and is other- 

 wise quite distinct. It is very accurately represented in Dr. Sclater's beauti- 

 ful plate, to which I refer, above. 



E. Melanodiglosta. 



9. Diglossa Laffksnayki, (Boissoneau). 



Uncirostrum La Fresnayii, Boiss., Rev. Zool., 1840, p. 4. 



Agrilorhinus Bonapartei, Fras., Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1840, p. 22. 

 Reich,, Voeg., fig. 3757. 



Specimens labelled "Bogota" and "Pasto." The largest of the species 

 • enumerated in this paper, though but little exceeding D. mytiacalia. This 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



species and the next (Z). hunteralig,) are easily recognized by their uniform 

 black plumage, only relieved by the light bluish shoulders. 



10. DiQLossA HUMERALis, (Fraser). 



Agrilorhinus humeralis, Fras., Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1840, p. 22. 

 Diglossa intermedia, Cab., Mus. Hein.,i. p. 97 (1850)"? 

 Reich., Voeg., fig. 3754. 



Resembling the preceding,' and, so far as I can see, only distinguishable by 

 its smaller dimensions, as stated by Mr. Fraser, as above cited. Specimens 

 from Venezuela. * 



11. Diglossa ATEKRiMA, Lafresnaye. 



Diglossa aterrima, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1846, p. 319. 



Reich., Voeg., fig. 3759. 



Specimens from New Grenada. Entirely black and easily recognized, 

 though specimens apparently not mature have the under parts mixed with 

 dull brown, which color prevails on the abdomen and under tail coverts. 



12. Diglossa albilateralis, Lafresnaye. 



Diglossa albilatera, Lafres., Rev. Zool., 1843, p. 98. 



Reich., Voeg., fig. 3758. 



Numerous specimens, labelled "Bogota" and "Columbie." Uniform bluish 

 black, with a tuft of white feathers on each side, under the wing. One plu- 

 mage, however, which is perhaps not mature, is not black, but always dis- 

 tinguishable by the tuft of white feathers on the side. Upper parts (female 

 or young) yellowish olive green, nearly uniform, under parts reddish ochre 

 yellow, paler on the abdomen, wings and tail dark brown with all the feathers 

 edged with olive nearly uniform with the back. 



13. Diglossa plumbea, Cabanis. 



Diglossa plumbea. Cab., Journ. Orn. 1860, p. 411. 

 Specimens from Costa Rica in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 

 This bird is strictly of the same group as that immediately preceding, and 

 nearly of the same size, but quite a distinct and peculiar species. 



7. Genus DIGLOSSOPIS, Sclater, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. xvii. p. 467, (1856). 



1. DiGLossopis CAERULEscENS, Sclatcr. 



Diglossopis caerulescens, Sclat., Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. xvii. p. 467, 

 (1856). 

 One specimen from Venezuela. 



Dec. 6th. 

 Mr. Lea, in the Chair. 



Fourteen members present. 



The published number of the Proceedings for September and Octo- 

 ber was laid on the table by the Committee on Proceedings. 



The death of Prof, B. Silliman, late a Correspondent of the Academy, 

 on the 24th of November, was announced. 



Dec. ISth. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 

 Eleven members present. 

 1864.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Dec. 20th. 

 Vice President Bridges in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication and referred to 

 committees. 



" Catalogue of the Cold-blooded Vertebrata of Michigan." By E. D. 

 Cope. » 



" Descriptions of six new Western Asiatic Unionidae." By Isaac 

 Lea. 



" Notes on some species of Birds from South America." By John 

 Oassin. 



Dec. 27th. 



Mr. Jeanes, in the Chair. 



Twenty- eight members present. 



On report of the respective Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published. 



Partial Catalogue of the Cold-blooded YEBTEBBATA of Michigan. 



Pt. I. 



BY PROF. E. D. cope. 



The material whence the present synopsis is derived, is a collection sent to 

 me by Prof. Manly Miles, of Lansing, composed of specimens belonging to the 

 Flint Scientific Institute, to the State Agricultural College, and to the State 

 Collection. As we have but few exact synopses of local collections made at 

 the Northwest, it is hoped the following list may prove of value in indicating 

 the general character of this part of the fauna. 



DERMOPTERI. 



Ichthyomyzon argenteus Gird. Petromyzon Kirtland. 



GANOIDEI. 



Lepidosteus huronensis. Numerous specimens. Saginaw Bay. 



Lepidosteus oculatus Winchell. Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci., 1864. Duck Lake, 

 Calhoun Co. 



Amia c a 1 v a L. Specimens with and without the caudal ocellus. 



TELEOSTEI. 



NEMATOGNATHI. 



Ictalurus gracilis Gill. Pimelodus gracilis Hough. 



A specimen with narrower head and larger eye than the caerulesoena 

 assigned to the above species with doubt, on account of the very imperfect 

 descriptions given, 



Ameiirus c u p r e u s. Oakland Co. 



Although Prof. Gill has assigned not more than nine branchiostegals to this 

 genus, and I find ten in five specimens, and though Prof. Kirtland gives an 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 277 



anterior position to the adipose fin, which the latter do not exhibit, and 

 though Rafinesque assignes fifteen anal rays and mine have 23 and 24, I prefer 

 doubting the infallibility of these statements to giving another name to the 

 Michigan fish ; it is in any case no other described species. 



Noturus f 1 a V u s. No. 294, Swartz Creek, Genesee Co. 



Six large specimens, not apparently differing specifically from smaller indi- 

 viduals from the Yonghiogheny and Susquehanna Rivers. Some, however, 

 have but nine branchiostegals instead of ten in the eastern specimens. 

 The orifice of the duct of the poison gland* is irregular in position, being some- 

 times at the base of the posterior pectoral rays, and sometimes even on the 

 side behind the fin, besides in its normal location below the scapular process. 

 From it may frequently be drawn a solid gelatinous style ending in a tripod, 

 each limb of which is diohotomously divided into short branches of regular 

 length. 



Teleocephali. 



Eventognathi. 

 Semotilus corporalis, Putnam, not Abbott. Many specimens from near 



New Hudson, Oakland Co., from Swartz Creek, Genesee Co. and from 



Grosse Isle. 

 The Semotilus rhotheus has been regarded by my friend F. W. Putnam, 

 as identical with this species (vid. Bulletin Mus. Comp. Zool.,p. 8,) although 

 I pointed out the diflferences in my first description (Proc. A. N. S., 1861, p. 

 664,) when I employed the name cataractus for corporalis. The latter 

 occurs sparingly in the tributaries of the Delaware, but is very common in 

 the aflluents of the Susquehanna and Ohio. The former is rare west of the 

 Delaware, where it is abundant, and reaches a large size. S. d i s s i m i 1 i af 

 and pallidus are good species from west of the Mississippi. 



Ceratichthys c y c 1 o t i s, J sp. nov. 



Body much compressed, dorsally flat ; the height 4 2-5ths in. total length. 

 Muzzle obtuse, rounded ; head entering 4^ times in length (to emargination 



* Vid. Gunther Catal. Siluiidae, Brit. Mus. 1864. 



t Of an allied genus, Pogonichthys, Dr. Hammond brought from near Bridger's Pass, an unde- 

 scribed species. It may be called P. (Platygobio) gulonellus. It may be compared with the 

 P. communisas follows : 



go loneli u s . 

 Ventrals truncate, falling far short of anus. 

 Anal shorter, nine rays. 



Breadth between eyes scarcely half length of cra- 

 nium above, equal height of operculum. 



com mums. 

 Ventrals acuminate, reaching anus. 

 Anal longer, with eleven rays. 

 Breadth between eyes more than half the top of 



the cranium, and more than the height of 



operculum. 



Head 4i times in length to caudal emargination; eye 5f times in length of head. Scales J48. 

 Fins D. 1-8 ; C. 19 ; V. 1-8 ; P. 16. From caudal to front base of anal, 2 in. 10 1. Total length, 6 in. 

 3 lines. Above ruddy ash, a faint longitudinal dark band on one row of scales above lateral line. 

 Below yellowi.sh white, lips and chin yellow; suborbital region ruddy. 



JTo Ceratichthys must probably be referred the Liudscus d i s s i m i 1 i s Kirtld., a common fish 

 in the tributaries of the Ohio. Ihe general appearance differs considerably from that of th<< other 

 species, espt^cially in the more prominent muzzle, and, therefore, Inferior mouth ; but I find no 

 ordinary characters indicating a different genus. 



Ceratichthys micropogonisa species sent Tne by Jabob Stauffer, Secretary of the Linnaean 

 Society, of Lancaster, and was taken in the Oone.stoga by a member of the Society, on one of its 

 excursions. The appearance of the head of this fish is that of a Hyp.-filepis rather than of a chub, 

 and the difficulty of discerning the minute barbels increases the liability to err in determining its 

 affinities. Mouth slightly oblique, angle opposite anterior border of orbit. Latter enters 3J times in 

 length of head, which is measured 3 J times in length from mu/.zle to base of taiL The great^8t depth 

 is measured 4J times in the same distance. Head broad, muzzle obtuse, profile rounded descending. 

 Caudal peduncle long. Scales, as in C. biguttatus, |40. Teeth 4— 4, without proper masticatory 

 surface, the posterior considerably hooked. Length, from origin of tail to anterior base of dorsal 

 equal from dorsal to posterior nostril. Hays. D. 1-8 ; C. 9 ; A. 1—7 ; V. 8 ; P. 13. Above pale 

 yellowish brown ; a broad brovrn shade from end of muzzle to base of tail ; below pale yellowish. 

 Length, 3 in. 6 lin. 



1864.] 




278 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of caudal.) Anterior base of dorsal measures one-half the distanse from 

 end of muzzle to base of tail. Lateral line nearly straight. Operculum 

 rounded posteriorly, scarcely concave above. Eye contained 5^ times in 

 length of head. Scales |41 ; radii fewer and weaker than inbiguttatus. 

 Dermal head tubercles longest on vertex, smallest on muzzle, in four alternat- 

 ing rows, one on each side becoming superciliary. Fins, D. 1-9 ; P. 15 ; V. 

 1*8, just reaching vent ; A. 1*8 ; C. 19. The dorsal and anal are much pro- 

 longed posteriorly, the greatest horizontal length of the former nearly equalling 

 the length of the upper surface of the head. Six and eight inches are the 

 longest dimensions before us. Color of upper surfaces olive brown ; below, 

 from above lateral line, yellowish ; preopercular region rosy ; pectorals slightly 

 dusky, otherwise do fin markings. 



This fish is shorter, stouter and blunter than the biguttatus, and haa 

 larger dorsal and anal fins, there being one more ray in the latter. The oper- 

 culum is not so angulated or concave above. 



In some of the specimens of this species, especially among the half-grown, 

 I find a tooth of the second row of pharyngeals, found in Semotilus proper. 

 Nevertheless the barbel is on the end of the maxillary, as in the type of Cera- 

 tichthys, and not above it, as in Semotilus. Specimens from Qrosse Isle, from 

 Waterford, Oakland Co., from Clinton River and from Bruce, Macomb Co., 

 Michigan. 



Ceratichthys stigmaticus, sp. nov. 



Dorsal outline rising gradually from end of muzzle to base of dorsal fin. 

 Muzzle projecting a little beyond premaxillary outline. Head (equal greatest 

 depth) 4^ limes in total length ; eye 3^ times in length of bead, its superior 

 rim upon the frontal plane. Scales ^40. Radii about 15 exposed, stronger 

 than the concentric lines. Fins short, ventrals a little anterior to dorsal, not 

 reaching the vent. D. 1*8; C. 20; A. 1-7 ; V. 8. From base of caudal to 

 anterior base of dorsal, equal from latter to posterior nares. General color 

 reddish, operculum and cheeks more silvery. A brown band from muzzle- to 

 eye, and a very distinct spot at base of tail. Total length, two and a half 

 inches. Pharyngeal bones stout, the superior limb broad ; teeth 1*4 — 4 : 1. 

 Barbel on the end of the o. maxillare. 



Rhinichthys I u n a t u s, sp. nov. 



Stout, the head broad, and contained four times in length to base of tail. 

 Greatest height 4^ times in the same. Dorsal fin a little behind opposite 

 ventrals ; latter reaching anal. Caudal lunate, or with a broad shallow 

 emargination. Eye a little less than one-fourth the length of the head. About 

 twenty longitudinal rows between dorsal and ventral fins, and sixty traversed 

 by the lateral line. From end of muzzle to base of first dorsal ray equal from 

 latter point to concavity of caudal. Muzzle projecting just beyond mandible. 

 Rays, D. 1-8 ; C. 19 ; A. 1—7 ; V. 1—8 ; P. 15. The largest specimens are 2^ 

 inches long. 



Above reddish brown, with irregular, rusty spots, which in small specimens 

 trace a lateral shade, and extend on the abdomen ; usually the latter is un- 

 spotted silvery. 



Specimens from Grosse Isle, obtained by Prof. Fox. This fish is stouter than 

 the atronasus, has a smaller eye and a less deeply forked tail, besides the 

 difference in color. Marmoratus has a longer nose, (one more anal ray) 

 and a caudal spot. From obtusus, meleagris and n a s u t u s* it can 

 also be readily distinguished. 



* Another speclefl, brought by Dr. Hammond from Kansas, has not l<een described. Rhinichthys 

 maxillosus is peculiar in its heavy muzzle, and broad mouth, aud gular region, and for an 

 ftlougate form and backward position of fins. Kye with considerable vertical range, entering 5i 

 times into length of he-id, latter four times to ba.<ie of tail. Greatest height five and a half times. 

 From base of caudal to base of front ray of dorsal equal from latter point to opposite middle of 

 orbit. Fins all small, especially the i^pntrals, which reach the vent. Dorsal originating a little 



[Dec- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 279 



Hybopsis storerianns*. No. 329, Flint River at Flushing, Genesee Co. 

 Hybopsis hudsonius, Agass. No. 531. Lake. 

 Hypsilepis d i p 1 se m i a. Specimens from near Lansing. 



Hypsilepis frontalisf, Agass. 



Numerous specimens from Grosse Isle, Detroit River, Three Mile Lake and 

 Waterford, Oakland Co.; Swartz Creek, Genesee Co. and Monroe Co. 



Specimens from the last locality, seven in number, represent a strongly- 

 marked variety, characterized by the great elevation of the outline in front 

 of the dorsal fin, and other points. From the first dorsal ray, the outline 

 again descends, giving the fin a very, oblique position : this, extends also, 

 when laid back, as far as above the fifth anal ray, while in frontalis it 

 most usually reaches a point opposite the first ray only. The eye is contained 

 four times in the length of the head — more frequently four and a half times 

 in f r nt al i s. The length of the head measures in the depth of the body, 

 from the dorsal outline to the middle of the row below that bearing the 

 lateral line ; it extends nearly to the ventral outline in frontalis. The 

 pharyngeal bones appear to be relatively rather stouter than in typical 

 frontalis, and are not furnished with so prominent an inferior angle to 

 the external ala. This, with the form of the body, would almost indicate a 

 species ; but as I find approximations ia these and transitions in the other 

 characters, I cannot so consider it. In H. f r o n t a 1 i s the number of scalea 

 traversed hy the lateral line varies from 38 to 43. 



Hypsilepis c or n u t u s Bd. 



Specimens from Pine Lake, Emmet County, Bruce, Macomb County, and 

 one from Swartz creek, agree with the many Susquehanna specimens in my 

 possession in a more elongate form of head and body than specimens from 

 tributaries of the Delaware. They often differ from those of the Susquehanna 

 in having a row of scales or two more below the lateral line. In Delaware 

 specimens the head is shorter than in the latter, not more so than in the for- 

 mer, but the depth of the body is greater than in either, entering in length 

 to base of tail 3^ times — in the others 4 and 4^ times. The dorsal fin is a 



behind ventrals, like the anal slightly concave on the border. Caudal not depply forked. Bays, 

 D. I — 8 ; C. 19; A. 1 — 7 ; V. 7 ; P. 13. Twenty-five rows of scales from dorsal to ventral. Largest 

 cpeciineu nearly 3 inches. Silvery. Pale cinnamon above ; a dark lateral Hhade ; yellowish below. 

 _ A dark spot at base of caudal. 



•Hybopsis phaenna is a species found in some of the tributaries of the Delaware, which 1 

 have received from Trenton, N. J., from my friend Charles C. Abbott. It is more elongate in form 

 than H. hudsonius and storerianus, and has nat the rounded front of the first or tlie Fmali, 

 compressed heai of the last. Eye a little less than one-third length of head ; latter 6J/^ times to 

 concavity of tail, and more than equal greatest depth of b:xly ; in storerianus the head does 

 not equal the depth, and the back is more compressed . Angle of mouth not posterior to anterior 

 nostril. Scales ^38. Lateral line very slightly deflected opposite dorsal fin. Base of caudal to 

 posterior edge of dorsal equal from latter to beginning of skin of head. Kays D. I'S; C. 19; A. 

 1'8. its outer border concave like that of dorsal ; V. 1-9 ; P. 15. Length 4 inches. 



Lateral band and below silvery, a dark shade passing through former; no spot at base of tail. 

 Above pale ochre, with a faint median line. 



The operculum of this fish is narrower than that of the hudsonius, rather than broader an 

 in amar u s, and the head is longer than in the latter. In storerianus the mouth is smaller, 

 and the operculum broaider, and with a prominent superior angle. Tlie g r a c i 1 i s is said to hav« 

 the pectorals reaching the ventrals, which I have not seen in any of the species at my disposal, 

 f Cyprinella, distinguished from Hypsilepis by its crenate teeth, must receive the Leuciscus ken- 

 tuckiensisof Dr. Kirtland. It is abundant in the tributaries of the Ohio, where it representa 

 , the nearly allied C. a n a 1 o s t a n a, Gird., of the Susquhanna and Delaware. The differences b*- 

 tween these species are as follow ; 



analostana. j kentuckiensi?. 



Head Z% to 4 times in length to base of tail. Head 4J^ times; muzzle more acute. 



6— (6) t>— 7 



Scales 32—5. Scales 38—40. 



2— (3) I , 3—4 



1864.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



little more anteriorly situated in the Delaware specimens, and there is a row 

 of scaUs more below tho lateral line than in Susquehanna specimens. With 

 typical specimens only, these might be regarded as representing two species-, 

 and as such I have already alluded to them ; * but in the large number of in- 

 dividuals at my disposal, I find transitions in all the points. The Delaware 

 specimens more nearly resemble the H. cornutus, figured by Dr. Storer. 



Squalius proriger. 



Until more characteristic points are presented, I provisionally preserve un- 

 broken a series of beardless Chilognath Cyprinoids, with pharyngeal teeth 

 2 or 1—4 or 5 : 5 or 4—1 or 2, of the type uncinato-subconici raptatorii, and 

 not crenate ; .the scales, with the usual extent of surface exposed ; the 

 isthmus not wide, and the anal fin short. The long anal fin disinguishes 

 Alburnus from it ; and the narrow exposed scale surface and masticatory 

 teeth, Ilypsilepis. Clinostomus Gir., may be said to be distinguishable by the 

 prominent mandible and large gape, but Sq. lepidus (Heck. Fische Sy- 

 riens, 89, ) Is quite similar in the former point, and the Clin, photogenisf 

 has the cleft as short as in most Squalii. Ptychochilus Ag. seems not yet 

 to have been suflS^iently distinguished from Clinostomus, and resembles 

 Squalius even more in its terminal mouth. If different genera are here united 

 erroneously, it is because their characters have as yet not been pointed out. 

 They embrace five Pacific slope species, six Eastern American, and many 

 from the old world. 



In the species now named the prolongation of the lower jaw is very great : 

 it presents a symphysial knob beyond and above the premaxillary border. 

 End of the maxillary opposite the middle of the pupil. Angle of opercular 

 outline less than 90°. Head narrowed anteriorly ; eye four times in its 

 length : latter four times in length to concavity of tail. Greatest height 5| 

 times in the same. Ventrals a little in advance of dorsal : from front base of 

 latter to base of tail equal from former point to half way between end of muz- 

 zle and nares. Teeth 2-5 — 4*1 in two specimens. Scales small, with especi- 

 ally strong concentric lines, JJi62. Dorsal high 18 ; Caudal deeply furcate, 19 ; 

 Anal rather elongate, 1'8|. V. 8, not reaching vent ; P. 14, elongate. Total 

 length three inches. 



Rufus brown above half way to the lateral line ; a dark shade from end of 

 muzzle to tail, covered with silvery, the latter extending to the belly. Sides 

 punctulate anteriorly. 



* Proc. Acad. Nat. Soi., Phila. 1861, 522. 



t Squalius photo genis. A Fpecies resembling some Albumi in its large caducous gcales and 

 attenuateil lonn. Mouth quite oblique ; untier jaw scarcely projecting: maxillary not reaching 

 line of margin of orbit. Head entering 4| times into length to forli of caudal ; gr«>ate8t depth 

 seven times. Back broad. Fins D. narrow 8; C. 19, A. 1—10. V. little anterior to dorsal 9. P. 

 narrow fulcate 13. Scales -§39. Radii stronger than concentric lines. From base of caudal to base 

 of first dorsal ray, equal from latter to anterior border of iris. 



Above pale ochre, with a median brown line, and one on each side, from opercular upper angl« 

 to tail, fciilea and below bright silvery, especially brilliant on the operculum and suborbital n>. 

 gion. Lips blackish edged. 



L<'ngth three inches. 



Two specimens from the Youghiogheny River, Pa. This maybe the species on which RafineBque 

 e8tai>lislied his Luxilus inlerruptus, but the discrepancies are so numerous that the identifica- 

 tion cannot be made 



Besid'B tlie S. (Clin.) fundulofdes of Girard, another species occurs in the waters flowing 

 into the Susquehanna. This, which may be called S. hy alop e, was obtained in the Conestoga 

 by J. Stauffer. Its form is that of a true Squalius— as 8. ce p hal i( s, not having the prominent 

 mandible and compressed body of the species included by Girard in Clinostomus. Mouth little 

 oblique, extending to beyond opposite anterior border of orbit . Muzzle obtuse; head elongate, 

 broad, entering length to base i f caudal 3? times. Diai-.eter of eye contained 3J- times in length 

 of head, equal lower posterior border of operculum. Base of caudal to front base of dorsal equal 

 from latter point to anterior border of pupil of eye. Teeth 1.4 — 5.1. Greatest depth 4 i times io 

 length to base of caudal. Scales -J45, with ten or eleven strong radii visible. Fins f^mall; radii 

 D. 8. C. 17. A, 1-8, V. 8. P. 11. Total length about three inches. Color whitish, becoming 

 bluish doraally; no markings. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 281 



This fish is more compressed posteriorly, has a larger head and eye, and 

 more projecting under jaw than the S. elongatus. 



It resembles an Aspius no little, but diifers in the shorter anal, and fewer 

 pharyngeal teeth. The Alburnus acut us, badly described by Lapham, is 

 evidently an allied species. 



Two specimens ; exact locality in Michigan not stated. 



Since the above was penned, I have found that Bleeker (in Comptes Ren- 

 dus XV. 1863,) has united the genera which I have attached to Squalius to 

 Aspius, placing Squalius with Telestes, Scardinius and Cyprinella as syno- 

 nymes of Leuciscus. That Squalius and Telesteg are identical, I fully believe ; 

 bat if Cyprinella and Scardinius are not different from Leuciscus our ideas 

 of characters must undergo a change. 



Plargyrus americanus. 



From Saginaw Bay, No. 253, and a variety from Grosse Isle, Detroit River, 

 distinguished by its very elongate form, especially in regard to its caudal pe- 

 duncle. Scales 146 ; that is, two rows less above the lateral line than in many 

 high-bodied specimens ; there are others quite intermediate. 



Chrosomus e o s Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1861, 523. 



From New Hudson, Livingston County, from streams flowing into Lake 

 Erie. Larger specimens of this species exhibit a short lateral line, though in 

 many it is wanting. Its points of separation from erythrogaster are as 

 follows : 



erythrogaster. 



Head less than one-fourth length to 

 base of caudal. Head narrower ; pa- 

 rietal width one-fourth distance from 

 base of first dorsal ray to base of 

 caudal, which is equal from first dorsal 

 ray to nares. 



Muzzle longer, overhanging, angle 

 of month opposite nares. 



Scales above lateral line 24 rows. 



Alburnops heterodon. 



A species having the general structure of Alburnops, and pharyngeal teeth 

 usually, but not always, presenting its characteristic masticatory surface. 

 They have sometimes a trace of the crenulation pertaining to Cyprinella, and 

 are arranged usually iu but one row of four on each side, which is soaietimes 

 accompanied by a single tooth of the inner row. This species is, therefore, 

 allied to Codoma, Cyprinella and Squalius. Scales |36, with about eleven 

 distant radii on the rather broad exposed surface. Fissure of mouth not 

 reaching line of orbit. Head one-fourth of length to base of tail, a little 

 greater than greatest depth. Diameter of eye one-third of length of head. 

 Operculum higher than long. Outline from end of muzzle to base of dorsal 

 greatly ascending. Greatest breadtU of head one-fourth of the distance from 

 end of muzzle to base of dorsal. Dorsal high ; the bony ray long ; its front 

 ray to the hinder as 2^ to 1, and contained 2^ times in the distance from its 

 base to the origin of the caudal fin : like the ventrals, it is nearer the end of 

 the muzzle than the base of the caudal. Ventrals reaching anus ; pectorals 

 falling much short of ventrals. Rays, D. 48 ; A. 8 ; V. 8. 



Length two and a half inches. 



Above yellowish-brown ; the scales darker bordered ; below yellowish-rosy, 

 or sometimes golden. A dark lateral band from end of muzzle to tail, which 

 is covered on the sides by a silver band with blue reflections. 



Numerous specimens from Lansing ; others from Grosse Isle. 

 1864.] 



Head more than one-fourth do. Head 

 broader ; parietal width one-third from 

 first dorsal ray to caudal, which equals 

 from dorsal to posterior margin of or- 

 bit. 



Muzzle shorter, mouth more oblique, 

 reaching edge of orbit. 



Scales above lateral line 18 rows. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Albarnops plnmbeolus. 



• Form compressed ; mouth obliqne ; mandible slightly more prominent than 

 premaxillary border. Eye 23 in length of head ; operculum higher than long; 

 the superior border very short ; the supero-posterior concave ; posterior an- 

 gle more than 90°. Length to base of tail a little over four times length of 

 head, and 4f the greatest depth. Frontal and dorsal outline a gentle arch. 

 Anterior base of dorsal half way between base of caudal and end of muzzle. 

 Height of dorsal less than half length from its anterior base to base of caudal. 

 Fins short ; ventrals extending f way to vent. Scales moderate |39, with seven 

 or eight rather faint radii, and minute numerous concentric lines. Radial for- 

 mula D. 1—8. A. 1—9. V. 8. P. 13. 



Length three inches. Pharyngeal bones with strong ala, especially dilated 

 on the superior angle, terminating in a sharp angle opposite the second tooth 

 from above ; lower limb long ; teeth 2, 4 — 4, 2. 



Everywhere silvery, with a blueish reflection, except a dusky vertex and 

 brownish dorsal region and basal caudal spot. 



From Flint, on a branch of the Saginaw. 



I have regarded, this species as an Alburnops on account of the distinct 

 masticatory surface of the teeth, although the upper jaw does not overlap the 

 lower as in the tj-pes of that genus. The form of the scales distinguishes it 

 readily from Hypsilepis. It is generally similar to Squalius. 



Alburnus* rubellus Agass. 



The anal fin of this fish is shorter than in true Alburnus : teeth 2, 4 — 4, 2, 

 without masticatory surface. Scales |38. Head 4| times in length to base 

 of caudal. 



Three specimens from Flint. 



Pimephales m i 1 e s i i, sp. nov. 



A species differing from the p r o m e 1 a s in its larger scales, longer muzzle 

 and other points approximating Hybognathus. 



Mouth oblique, outlines of snout forming less than a right angle in profile. 

 Eye entering 4^ times in length of head, which latter is one-fourth of length 

 to base of tail, and equal to greatest depth of body. Scales |40, nearly round, 

 lateral line extending as far as the fourteenth. Dorsal fin with 1, 9 rays ; 

 the first and last jointed are equal, the middle the highest. Caudal wide ; 

 complete rays 21. Anal small, longer than wide, 1, 7, Ventrals not reaching 

 anal, 1, 8. Pectorals extending three-fifths distance to ventrals. From base of 

 caudal to front base of dorsal equal from latter point to anterior nostril. 

 Frontal breadth double diameter of orbit. Length 2 in. 5 lines. 



General color pale reddish-brown, much paler below, and a faint blackish 

 longitudinal line. Top of head blackish ; its sides silvery. 



From Grosse Isle, Detroit River. Named from Prof. Miles, who, in connec- 

 tion with Prof. Fox, has added much to north-western Zoology. 



Pimephales promelas, Raf. 

 Specimens from near Lansing. 



Hyborhynchusf n o t a t u s, Agass. » 



• Alburnus oil gasp i g. • 



Under jaw proJHOting a little beyond upper; maxillary extending to opposite posterior nostril. 

 Head conic in profile, with muzzle compressed, ono Cfih of length to notch of caudal. Kye three 

 and one-fifth times in length of head. Operculum higher than long. Fins short (except anal); 

 Tentrala anterior to dorsal. Dorsal 1-8. C. 20. A. VH. V. 7. P. 15. Scales rather large, ^-•41. 

 Lateral line, with a long, gentle anterior deflection. 



Length about two inches. 



Above reddish; sides of head and bro.id lateral band silvery. Below medially yellowish. 



Brought from Kansas, by Dr. W. A Hammond. 



t In this place may be described the Algansea ant lea, pp. nov., brongbt hy Dr. Woodhous* 

 ttom Texas, and presented to the Academy Museum. It is nearest to the f o r m o s a of Girard 



[Dec' 




NATURAL S0IEN0E8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



One specimen from Grosae Isle, Detroit River. 



Though diflfering in the development of the lateral line, this species stands 

 near Pimephales in the character of the separation of the bonj dorsal ray from 

 the first cartilaginous by a membrane, (erroneously alluded to by some as a 

 peculiar ray,) and in the arrangement of the tubercles on the front. Of the 

 latter, there are two rows crossing the front of the muzzle ; the inferior of six, 

 of two on each side on the premaxillary border, and the outer near the eye ; 

 the superior of five, one on the middle line. A third row of four is on the 

 border of the superior plane, one behind each pair of nares, and one on each 

 aide the middle line of the muzzle. 



Hybognathus s t r a m i n e u s. 



This genus embraces the described species argyritis, evansi, nn- 

 chalis, nitidus, regius and probably g a r d o n e u 3 (C. V.), to which 

 are added here three others. 



In the present species, the dorsal is situated nearer the end of the muzzle 

 than to the base of the caudal, and its height is much less than half the dis- 

 tance from the base of its first ray to the same point ; the head enters the 

 length to the caudal a little over four times, being relatively longer than in the 

 species described by Agassiz and Girard, while the eye, entering the length of 

 the head but three times, is relatively larger. The depth enters the length 

 4| times. Scales |36 ; in evansi* |40. Ventral fins do not extend to the 

 vent. The dorsal outline rises gently to the base of the dorsal ; the profile 

 descends abruptly at the end of the muzzle, which is prolonged in front of the 

 orbit about three-fourths the longest diameter of the latter. Superior border 

 of operculum usually shorter than the posterior. Pharyngeal teeth 4—4. 

 • The general form is stout, and the head broad ; caudal not deeply forked. 

 Fin rays -D. 1. 8. C. 19. A. 7. V. 8. P. short, 13. Length about three 

 inches. Color brownish straw color ; sides and below silvery, the former 

 most brightly. No dorsal line ; a faint line on posterior part of lateral line, 

 and a small spot at base of tail. 



Many specimens from Grosse Isle, Detroit River. 



Hybognathus v o 1 u c e 1 1 u s.f 



A species distinguished by its depressed elongate head and elongate fins, 

 especially the dorsal. The latter is as far from the end of the muzzle as from 



but differs in the mucli more posterior position of the fins. In this, the anterior base of dorsal ia 

 equidistant between end of muzzle and base of tail: In the antica much behind the median 

 point; the ventrals are much nearer the caudal thtfti the chin; in the formosa, the reverse ia 

 the case. Scales ^^JL 50. Head in adults a trifle more than one-fourth total length; eye one-fifth 

 length of head. Maxillary not reaching line of margin of orbit ; mouth oblique. Profile long, 

 flat, descending; dorsal outline arched. Body of medium'proportions, shortened behind; caudal 

 Peduncle short, thick, Fins, D. 1—7 1 ; C. 19, short, emargination shallow ; A. 1—8; V.9; P.16_ 

 Sides of head and edges of scales punctulate; general tint above purplish-slate; below, with 

 aub- and inter-operculum, yellow. Largest specimen five inches long. In some small specimens 

 the eye is only one-fourth the length of the head. To the allied penus Lavinia belongs most pro- 

 bably the Leuciscus boscii of Cuv. et Val. from Carolina. The same genus occurs in Lake 

 Ponchartrnin. 



♦ Brought by Hammond from the Upper Platte. 



t Hybognathus pro one has been sent me by my friend, JacSb Staaffer, as an inhabitant of 

 the Conestoga, tributary of the Susquehanna. A small silvery fish, with compressed body and 

 elongate caudal peduncle. Head enters total length 41^ times ; 'liameter of eye into head '1% or 

 three times. Depth into length five or a little more times. From anterior base of dorsal to base 

 of caudal longer than from former to end of muzzle ; dorsal high, anterior rays equal ]/^ from 

 their base to base of caudal. Scales i 31. Tail entering total length h\i times, deeply forked ; forka 

 acute. Obliquity of mouth slight. Operculum higher than long; its infer >pjsterior border ver/ 

 oblique, long. Teeth R. 5—4 L. Length 2-5 inches. 



Top of head, a narrow dorsal band, and the borders of the upper scales blackish; belly and 

 aides of body and head silvery, along the middle line with blue reflections and black punctulationg, 

 the latter collected into a streak on the lateral line. Belly yellowiah. 



1864.] 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



its anterior ray to the base of the caudal fin. Its anterior rays are three 

 times the length of the posterior, and equal to half the length from their base 

 to the base of the caudal. Muzzle obtuse ; vertex plane ; dorsal outline 

 arched from nape to fin. Caudal peduncle slender. Head entering length to 

 base of caudal 3| times, the greatest depth 4 times ; diameter of orbit in 

 length of head 3J times. Operculum as broad as long. Scales | 34. Radial 

 formula D. 1 — 8 ; C. 19, not deeply forked ; anal elongate, with short base, 

 1 — 7. Ventrals reaching anus, 8. Pectorals just reaching ventrals, falcate. 

 Length 2-5 inches. 



Above reddish-straw color, without band ; sides and below silvery ; a dark 

 shade on the lateral line, most distinct on caudal peduncle. 



Grosse Isle, Detroit River. 



Hybognathus n u c h a 1 i s, Agassiz. 

 Numerous specimens from Grosse Isle. 



Campostoma callipteryx, sp. nov. 



Lips well developed, free round the arched margins of both jaws. Muzzle 

 elongate, steeply descending from front ; outline to half way to dorsal strongly 

 but less steeply ascending. Eye superior, small, entering five times into 

 length, and nearly four times into breadth of head ; latter four and a half 

 times into length to emargination of caudal, a trifle less than greatest depth. 

 Ventrals under anterior margin of dorsal, not reaching to vent ; anal rounded 

 anteriorly. Scales with many weak radii, f 54, a much narrower area ex- 

 posed anteriorly than posteriorly. Caudal acute above, rounded below. 

 Radii, D. 1. 8. C. 39. A. 1, 8. V. 8 one side, 10 the other. P. 16. Pharyn- 

 geal teeth uniserial, 4 — 4. From end of muzzle to anterior base of dorsal in 

 a straight line, equal from base of caudal to middle of base of dorsal. Head 

 above with spinous tubercles. 



General color pale, dorsal regions and edge of operculum darker. Median 

 part of all tlie fins black, terminal membrane opalescent. Total length 5^ 

 inches. 



From Flint on the Flint River, which empties into Saginaw Bay. 



For distinguishing this genus from Chondrostoma I have relied on the less 

 number of teeth in the principal, usually the only, row. The development 

 of the lips diminishes in allied species, so that Girard's Hybognathus p 1 a- 

 c i t u s cannot well be excluded from this genus, 



Campostoma m o r m y r u s, sp. nov. 



Muzzle more elongate and mucb more depressed than in the next species. 

 Head four and one-half times in total length to caudal emargination ; eye five 

 times into length of head. Dorsal outline arched. Greatest depth four and 

 one-third times in length, — greater than in gobionium. Scales about, 

 equal, ^ 49. Fins, D. 1. 8. C. 19. A. 1. 7. V. 8. P. 15, with the last 

 longer than in gobionium. Length about two and a half inches. 



Head and body above reddish ; sides and below silvery. Fins unspotted. 

 In these species the outline of the broad mandibular sheath is a flattened 

 arch. 



From Bruce, Macomb Co. ^ 



Campostoma gobioninum. 

 This and the C, mormyrus and hippops* belong to the type of nasu- 



• Campostoma hippops, sp. nor. 



Mu/.zle very long and decurved, with the front convex transversely. Eyes hi^h, small, enter 

 BIX tinjes into lencth of head. Back broad, arched in front of dor.sal, not so steep as front. From 

 base of caudal to front base of dorsal a little less than from latter to end of muzzle. Head 4,% 

 times in length. Scales |57. Fins small; D. 1. 8. C. 19. A. 1. 7. V. 1. 8, two-thirds di.stanco to 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



turn, Gir., with the muzzle elongated and not elevated as in the c al llp- 

 teryx, and the lips little developed. Scales little less exposed anteriorly 

 than posteriorly, |53. Head short, one-fifth of length to notch of tail. Eye 

 four and a lialf times in length of head. Operculum little higher than long, 

 little concave above. Fins small ; D. 1. 8. C. 19. A. narrow, 1. 7. V. 8, 

 reaching three-fifths distance to vent. P. rounded, 16, reaching three-fifths 

 distance to vent. Back arched to dorsal. Tail broad ; seven rows of scales on 

 middle of peduncle. 



One specimen is three inches long. 



Color of head and body above dark-brown ; below yellowish. Fins without 

 markings. 



Looality. — Bruce, Macomb Co., and Grosse Isle. 



Hylomyzon nigricans, Agassiz. 

 Grosse Isle. 



Ptychostomus aureolus, Agassiz. No. 231. 

 Saginaw Bay and Grosse Isle. 



Carpiodes thompsoni, Agassiz. Am. Joum. Sci. and Arts, xix. p. 76. 

 and Thomps. Hist. Vermont, p. 133. Nos. 228 and 230. Saginaw Bay, 

 I find one and two more rows of scales than described by Thompson, and 

 the ouyines of the latter not quite as regularly continuous as one might infer 

 from Agassiz's remarks. C. damalis, brought by Hammond from the 

 upper Platte, has larger scales and is more elongate, and there are but 25 

 rays in the dorsal fin. 



Description of Six new species of Western Asiatic TTNIONID^. 

 BY ISAAC LEA. 



Unio Homsensis — Testa laevi, suboblonga, inicquilaterali, ad latere plana* 

 lata, postico angulata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus; natibusprominulis, 

 ad apices plicatis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca; dentibus cardinalibus crassis 

 crenulatisque ; margarita p«rpurescente et iridescente. 



Hab. — Lake Horns, (ancient Emesa), River Orontes, North Syria. C. M. 

 Wheatley. 



Unio Kullethknsis. — Testd l»vt, oblonga, insequilaterali, at latere plann- 

 lata, antice subtruncatA, postice obtuse angulata; valvulis crassis, antic^ cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide luteolii, postice radiatd et tenebroso- 

 viridi ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, acuminatis crenulatisque ; margarita vel 

 * alba vel aurea et valdfe iridescente. 



Hab. — Near Mardin, in a stream from Kulleth falling into the Tigris, Asia. 

 C. M. Whealley. 



Unio Orphaensis. — Testa Isevl, oblong^, inseqnilaterali, antice rotupdat&, 

 postice obtusfe subbiangulatfi, ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassioribus ; na- 

 tibus subprominentibus, ad apices crebrfe et minute undulatis ; epidermide 

 olivace&, virido-radi^ ; dentibns cardinalibus parvis, compressis, crenulatis, 



Tent. P. 14, extending halfway to rentrals. Posterior angle of opercolnm right; anterior border 

 shorter than postero-inferior. Length 4 inches. 



Body above reddish; head paler; sides and beloir silvery; a dark spot on base of middle of tail 

 and on middle of dorsal and anal. 



Platte River, at Ft. Kearney, Kansas. Dr. W. A. Hammond. 



This species resembles the C. mormy rus more than any other. In C. n»«atnin the head 

 is much longer and the scales larger, 



1864.] 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in utroqoe valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus longis subrectisque ; margarit& rel 

 albfi. vel aureS, et valde iridescente. 



Hab. — Tigris River, near Mardia Pashalic of Orpha, Asiatic Turkey. C. M. 

 Wheatley. 



Unio Mardinensis. — Testfi. laevi, suboblonga, inseqnilaterali, antice rotundata, 

 posticfe obtuse angulata ; valvulis subtenuibus, anticfe crassioribus ; natibns 

 prominulis, ad apices crebre et minutfe undulatis ; epidermide luteolA, valdd 

 radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, acuminatis crenulatisque ; lateralibus 

 BubloDgis subrectisque ; margarita aureS, et valde iridescente. 



Eab. — Tigris River, near Mardin, Asiatic Turkey. C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio Emesabnsis. — Testa laevi, subrotunda, inaequilaterali, ad umbones sub- 

 tumida, antice rotundata, posiice obtuse subbiangulata; valvulis crassiusculie, 

 antice aliquanto crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, ad apices corrugatis ; 

 epidermide rufo-fusca et obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus subcrassis 

 crenulatisque ; lateralibus brevibus subrectisque ; margarita aure& et valde 

 iridescente. 



Hab. — Lake Horns, River Orontes, North Syria. C. M. Wheatley. 



crassiorious ; imiiuus suu^^rumiueuuiuus, rctui via, au apiv;ca uiiuutc uuuuiniis ; 



epidermide tenebroso-fusca ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, erectis compressis- 

 que ; margarita caeruleo-alba et iridescente. 



jjab — Near Mardin, in a stream falling into the Tigris River, Asia. C. M. 

 Wheatley. 



Notes on some Species of BIBDS ftom South America. 



BY JOHN CASSIN. 



1. Cailiste LAViNiiE, Cassin, (Plate 1, fig. 1.) 



Calliste Laviniae, Cass. Proc. Acad. Philada., 1858, p. 178. 



This bird was described by me as above from a specimen procured in N6w 

 Grenada, and which is yet the only adult that I have seen. In the museum 

 of the Smithsonian Institution there is another specimen from the mountain 

 region of the Rio Truando, a tributary of the Rio Atrato, New Grenada. The 

 latter specimen is not in mature plumage, but has the outer webs of the quills 

 and the greater coverts of the rufous-orange color, which, on those parts, so 

 strongly characterizes this species, and distinguishes it at once from its allies 

 of the subgroup Gyrola. The adult bird is represented of the natural size, in 

 plate 1, fig. 1, of the present volume. 



Of this group or subgenus Gyrola, four species are now known, which, 

 though resembling each other in general colors, may be readily distinguished, 

 and inhabit, apparently, distinct regions. 



These species are : 



1. Calliste Gyrola, (Linnaeus.) 



Fringilla Gyrola, Linn., Syst. Nat. i. p. 181 (1758.) 



2. Calliste Gyroloides, (Lafresnaye.) 



Aglaia Gyroloides, Lafres., Rev. Zool. 1847, p. 277. 



3. Calliste Desmarestii, G. R. Gray. 



Calliste Desmarestii, G. R. Gray, Gen. ii. p. 366 (1844.) 



4. Calliste LAViNiiB, Cassin. 



Calliste Lavinia, Cass., Froo. Aoad. Philada., 1858, p. 178. 



[Dec. 




Froc.Aca'iL. Fhihuhi . J 864. 



Plat^ J. 



BOWLNSCfUTHtC0lfH.IL. 



7. CaiJijite, Lmirdae-. — ?. OjJJisti' Earvruilviaj!'. 






Froc.AcaJ. rhihula. 1SG4. 



Flatr. 



BOWtNA a UTHUCOLFMIL 



Oniiot^oit^s O/ii art'rts. 





I'ntc.hful riiHiitlii.h'lod. 



rhdej. 



BOttltNACO.UTH.iCOL.mif 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 287 



All of these specie? ire in the Academy Museum, and of the first three nu- 

 merous specimens. ^ hose three species are accurately and handsomely 

 figured by Dr. Sclater in his Monograph of the genus Calliste. 



2. Calliste Eannahi^, nobis, (Plate 1, fig. 2.) 



Resembling generally C. cyaneicollis (D'Orbigny,) but is rather larger, has 

 the bill much smaller, and the abdomen always black (not blue as in that 

 species.) The blue of the head above is also different in shade, being paler 

 in the present bird, and this color has much greater depth, each feather being 

 black at base, and with its terminal half pale verditer blue. 



Entire head verditer blue, tinged with indigo blue on the throat ; back and 

 entire under parts lustrous black ; shoulders golden green ; greater coverts 

 yellowish green ; rump and upper tail coverts lustrous bluish and yellowish 

 green. Quills black, edged externally with bluish green ; tail black, all the 

 feathers narrowly edged with green ; under tail coverts black, with bluish 

 green edges ; under wing coverts black ; bill and feet black. A narrow frontal 

 band and stripe in front of the eye black. 



Total length about 5 inches ; wing 2| ; tail 2 inches. 



Hab. — Merida Mountains, Venezuela. 



Of this bird, I have now two specimens, one of which was brought from the 

 locality above given, by Mr. George Robbins of this city, and which is un- 

 doubtedly correct. At first sight it much resembles C. cyaneicollis, but is 

 not difficult to distinguish by the abdomen being quite black, uniform with 

 the other under parts, and by the difl"erent blue color of the head, as above 

 mentioned. The small bill in the present bird is also a strong character. 



Numerous specimens of C. cyaneicollis are in the Philadelphia Academy, 

 two of which are types from M. D'Orbigny's collection. All of them, and all 

 others that I have seen, have the blue abdomen well marked as a character, 

 and in one evidently quite mature specimen, marked "Chili," this character 

 is so strongly developed and the blue color extends so far upwards towards 

 the breast, that it seems to have induced some attention, and the specimen 

 has been labelled in Europe " Esp. nouv, ?" In this specimen and others, 

 the blue of the head is quite superficial. One other specimen, from M. D'Or- 

 bigny's collection, is in young plnmage, but has the abdomen blue, though 

 that color is only incipient on the top of the head. All have the bill larger 

 than the present species. Our figure represents this bird of the size of life. 



To one possessing attributes amongst the most noble of Christian civilixa- 

 tion, an affectionate and most exemplary wife and mother, this bird is dedi- 

 cated ! 



3. Okthogonts olivaceus, Cassin, (Plate 2.) 



Orthogonys olivaceus, Cass., Proc. Acad. Philada. 1860, p. 140. 

 Of this curious bird no other specimens have come under my notice, than 

 those described ^s above, which were obtained in the Cordilleras Mountains in 

 New Grenada, by Mr. Charles J. Wood, of this city. It is given in our plate, 

 of the natural size. % 



4. Pittasoma Michleri, Cassin, (Plate 3.) 



Pittasoma Michleri, Cass., Proc. Acad. Philada. 1860, p. 189. 

 Since the publication of my description above cited, fine specimens of this 

 bird have been received from Panama by Mr. George N. Lawrence, of New 

 York, who notices them in his interesting and valuable papers on the birds 

 of that isthmus, iu the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of that city. 

 The figure in our plate represents the adult male, and is about two-thirds of 

 the size of life. 



5. Moxasa pallescens, Cassin, (Plate 4.) 



Monasa pallesceus, Cass., Proc. Acad. Philada. 18dO, p. 134. 

 No other specimens of this bird have come under my notice since the pnb- 



1864.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



lication of the description above cited. The figure in the plate accompanying 

 this paper, is about two-thirds of the size of life, and represents the adult 

 male from the mountain region on the Rio Truando, a tributary of the Rio 

 Atrato, New Grenada. 



• 6. MoNASA AXILLARIS, Lafresnaye. 



Monasa axillaris, Lafres., Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1850, p. 216. 

 Monasa flavirostris, Strickland, Jard. Contr. Orn., 1850, p. 47. 

 Jard. Contr. 1850, pi. 48. 

 I mention this species only for the purpose of again stating, that its name 

 la that of the Baron Lafresnaye as above given. The type specimen, now in 

 the Academy Museum, was described by him while in possession of Messrs. 

 Verreaux, of Paris, and the same specimen was described by Strickland, while 

 afterwards it was in England en route to Philadelphia. 



7. Capito versicolok, (Miiller.) 



Bucco versicolor, Miill., Syst, Nat. Supp. p. 88 (1776.) 



Bucco pictus, Bodd., tab. PI. Enl. p. 20 (1783.) 



Bucco elegans, Gm., Syst. Nat. i. p. 406 (1788.) 



Bueco Maynanensis, Briss., Orn. iv. p. 102. 

 Buflf. PI. Enl. 330. 

 Of this species which seems to be little known to naturalists, one specimen, 

 evidently in mature plumage, is in the Academy Museum, and was received 

 some years since from the Hon. John Randolph Clay, in a collection made by 

 him while Minister of the United States to Peru. The skin was one of several 

 which had the appearance of having been made by a non-expert person, and 

 is stated to have come from the mountainous region of the interior of that 

 country. This species is figured by Buflfon, as above cited, with sufficient ac- 

 curacy for recognition. 



The Annual Reports of the Recording Secretary, Librarian, and 

 Curators were read, as follows : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY, 



For 1864. 



During the year ending 30th November, 1864, there have been elected thir- 

 teen members and nine correspondents. 



The following members have died : Richard Randolph, Wm. D. Parrish, 

 Samuel Ashmead, William J. Taylor, Thomas Duulap, Wm. Pepper, M. D., 

 John B. Myers. 



The death of the following correspondents has been announced : Joseph 

 Henderson, M. D., Francis Boote, Prof. D. J. Eschricht, Jaques A. Gay. 

 Two members have resigned. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be published, during the 

 s/ime time, has been fifty-one, as follows : 



Theodore Gill, twelve; Isaac Lea, LL.D., eleven; E. D. Cope, four; 

 Elliott Coues, three ; H. C. Wood, Jr., three ; John Cassin, two; George W. 

 Tryon two ; Jacob Ennis, two ; A. Agassiz, S. F. Baird, Wm, M. Canby, T. 

 A. Conrad, J. G. Cooper, M. D., Asa Gray, D. G. Elliott, C. A. Helmuth, Geo. 

 N*. Lawrence, Wm. Stimpson, Alex. Winchell, F. W. Lewis, M. D., each one. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted. 



B. HOWARD RAND, M. D., 



Recording Secretary, 

 [Dec. 




PrucJicad.Fhjlada. IS64. 



FUjte 4. 



Monascb jyallescerhs. 



BO>n:N»CO. LiTH.a COLfHIlAltf 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



KEPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN, 



For 1864. 



The Librarian begs leave, most respectfully, to report that during the past 

 year the following additions have been made to the Library, viz : 



Journals, 763 ; works on Anatomy and Physiology, 20 ; Antiquities, 3 ; Bib- 

 liography, 4 ; Botany, 39 ; Chemistry, 1 ; Conchology, 29 ; Eatomology, 14 ; 

 Geology, 69 ; General Natural History, 107 ; Helmintliology, 4 ; Herpetology, 

 2 ; Ichthyology, 4 ; Languages, 4 ; Mathematics, 1 ; Mammalogy, 2 ; Medi- 

 cine, 69 ; Ornithology, 24 ; Physical Science, 17 ; Politics, 1 ; Religion, 4 ; 

 Useful Arts, 1 ; Voyages and Travels, 19. Total 1201. 



Of these were volumes, 265 ; tracts and parts of periodicals, 936, divided 

 as follows : Folios, 21 ; quartos, 256 ; octavos, 902 ; duodecimos, 22. 



These have been received from the following sources, viz : Sojieties, 533 ; 

 Editors, 149 ; Authors, 82 ; Smithsonian Institution, 10 ; University of To- 

 ronto, 1 ; Navy Department, 1 ; Treasury Department, 1 ; Library Fuad, 137 ; 

 Maclure Fund, 12 ; Minister of Public Works in France, 3 ; Dr. T. B. Wilson, 

 261 ; Mrs. Dr. Short, 2 ; Executors of Dr. Short, 4 ; J. C. G. Kennedy, 1 ; 

 Charles H. Hart, 3 ; Select Council of Philadelphia, 1. Total 1201. 



J. D. SERGEANT, 



December 27, 1864. Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



For 1864:. 



The Curators report the Museum of the Academy to be in its usual good 

 order and state of preservation. Some of the departments are still but par- 

 tially arranged, and, under existing circumstances, the Curators see no way of 

 completing the arrangement unless they are authorized by the Academy to em- 

 ploy aid for the purpose. Mr. Tryon has undertaken the arrangement of the 

 conchological cabinet, and Mr. Durand has expended much labor in the ar- 

 rangement of the recent rich additions to the herbarium. 



Notwithstanding the extensive additions made in late years to the building 

 of the Academy, the Curators feel the necessity of more space to accommodate 

 the constantly increasing collections. Nearly all the departments are crowded, 

 some of them to such an extent that it has become difficult to introduce a few 

 additional specimens. It is to be hoped that the Academy will direct especial 

 attention to the necessity of making future and ample provision to accommo- 

 date, display, and render convenient to access, the incessantly increasing 

 museum and library. 



During the year the Academy has been greatly enriched by a donation con- 

 sisting of the magnificent Herbarium of the late Prof. Charles W. Short, of 

 Louisville, Kentucky, presented by the family on the recommendation of Prof. 

 Asa Gray, of Cambridge. A special notice of this collection will be found in 

 the Report of the Botanical Committee appended to the present one. 



Another rich addition, a legacy of our late fellow member, Samuel Ashmead, 

 formerly one of the most efficient Curators of this Institution, consists of a 

 first selection from a large and valuable private collection of about 2O0O 

 minerals, together with a beautiful collection of marine algae, made with con- 

 siderable labor and expense during the later years of Mr. Ashmead's life. 



Our stores have further been increased, through the American Philosqphioal 

 Society, by the deposit of the natural history collection of that time-honored 

 Institution. 



By resolution of the Aeademy, a small collection of ancient works of art 

 have been deposited in the museum of the American Philosophical Society. 



1864.] 19 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The following list exhibits the contributions to the museum of the Academy 

 during the year in the various departments of natural history : 



Mammals. — Of these five species, from Arctic America, were presented by 

 Robert Kennicott, and one species by John Krider. 



Birds. — Dr. T, B, Wilson and Joseph Jeanes presented 248 specimens, 144 

 Species, from the West African collection of Duchaillu, and from Jalapa, Mexico, 

 of the collection of D'Oca. The Smithsonian Institution presented 31 speci- 

 mens, 25 species, from the collection of the U. S. Exploring Expedition of the 

 Vincennes and Peacock, 100 specimens from Siam and 9 specimens from other 

 localities. George N. Lawrence presented 51 specimens, 34 species, from Gua- 

 temala, New Grenada and Panama. Robert Kennicott presented 22 species 

 from Arctic America. ' Of others, 36 specimens and 1 nest were presented by 

 T. B. Wilson, J. Krider, C. J. and W. S. Wood, S. Ashmead, R. Frazer, J. 

 Xantus, T. Wyld and D. Gilbert. 



Reptiles and Fishes. — A small collection of reptiles from Corisco, W. A., 

 was presented bj Rev. R. H. Nassau, and 7 specimens were presented by F. 

 R. Bingham, D. Gilbert and E. Draper. Of fishes 7 specimens were presented 

 by T. Norris, C. A. Kingsbury and C. L. Pascal. 



Mollushs. — The Smithsonian Institution presented 71 species of marine mol- 

 lusca, and 294 species of shells, mostly American, mainly collected and labeled 

 by W. Stimpson. George W. Tryon, Jr., presented 163 species of shells, mostly 

 new to the museum of the Academy. Dr. Gundlach presented 20 species of 

 Cuban shells. Of othets, 16 species were presented by A. A. Gould, I. Lea, J. C. 

 Fisher and J. H. Thomson. A small collection from the Florida Reef was 

 preiiented by George Davidson. The American Philosophical Society depo- 

 sited a small collection of shells. 



Articulates. — The Smithsonian Institution presented 62 species of crustace- 

 ans, mostly from the collection of Dr. William Stimpson, of the North Palcific 

 Exploring Expedition. Other crustaceans, insects and myriapods were presented 

 by George Davidson, Rev. R. H. Nassau, F. R. Bingham, Dr. J. C. Fisher and 

 H. L. Gaw. 



Echinoderms, ^c. — The Smithsonian Institution presented 16 species of echi- 

 noderms from the collection of W. Stimpson, of the North Pacific Exploring 

 Expedition. Small collections of marine animals were presented by Rev. R. 

 H. Nassau, Dr. J. C. Morris, S. Powell and George Merritt. A small collection 

 of echinoderms, corals and sponges were deposited by thie American Philo- 

 sophical Society. 



Fossils. — E. D. Cope presented 14 specimens of vertebrate liassic fossils 

 from England. Small collections and specimens were presented by Gen. John 

 F. Hartrauft, Lieut. A. W. Guernsey, Jacob M. Kunkel, Dr. J. Leidy, F. Peale, 

 Col. W. D. Lewis, Jr., J. F. Frazer, R. E. Knight, J.C. Trautwine, Mr. Painter 

 and Geo. W. Ward. The American Philosophical Society deposited a collec- 

 tion of green-saud fossils from New Jersey and Delaware, a collection of 

 European tertiary fossils, small collections from various formations and locali- 

 ties, and a number of casts in plaster of the vertebrate fossils of the vicinity 

 of Paris. 



Minerals. — About 500 specimens of minerals were received as a legacy from 

 the late Samuel Ashmead, of which about 400 have been labelled and inter- 

 calated with the mineralogical cabinet of the Academy. The mineralogical 

 collection, deposited by the American Philosophical Society, contains many 

 rare and valuable specimens, among which are rich native silvers, sulphurets 

 of silver, tin, opal, &c., from Mexico. From this collection upwards of 450 

 specimer s have been labelled and intercalated with the cabinet of the Academy. 

 Altogether there have been added to the latter during the past year, about 

 1000 labelled specimens. Mr. Lea presented 27 specimens of minerals from 

 Chester and Lancaster Co., Pa., and from New York. The Smithsonian In- 

 stitution presented 27 specimens of rocks. Joseph Wharton presented 18 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



minerals from Lancaster Co., and 8 specimens were presented by J. D. Ser- 

 geant, W. S. Vaux and J. C. Trautwine. There were also obtained 12 valu- 

 able minerals in exchange. 



Botany. — The magnificent herbarium of the late Professor Short, of Louis- 

 ville, Ken., presented by his family, consists of almost 300 folio volumes, 

 containing about 6000 species of American plants, and between 3000 and 4000 

 species of European plants, besides a number of unopened packages of tropical 

 American plants. The collection of marine algse of the late Samuel Ash- 

 mead, a legacy to the Academy, is contained in 12 thick quarto volumes. Be- 

 sides these there are numerous microscopic specimens mounted in the usual 

 manner on glass slides. A collection of marine and fresh water algse, com- 

 prising about 700 species, a contribution by Leo Lesquereux to the Central 

 Sanitary Fair, has been purchased by the Curators, according to a resolution of 

 the Academy, of Dec. 6, 1864. Two large fungi were presented by A. Cun- 

 ningham and Violetta W. Miller. 



Miscellaneous.-^An antique stone hammer from the copper mines of Lake 

 Superior was presented by B. A. Hoopes ; an Apache ladian skull from Texas 

 by Dr. E. H. Abadie ; 6 worked flints from Abbeville, France, by F. Peale ; 

 and a plaster cast of the Neanderthal skull by E. D. Cope. 



Kespectfully submitted by JOSEPH LEIDY, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL COMMITTEE, 



For 1864. 



To the Curators of the Academy of Natural Sciences : 



Gentlemen: — Since my last report, dated December I7th, 1857, our Botanical 

 Department has been considerably enriched. 



Firsts by a full set of specimens from the collections made on the Colorado 

 Mountains by Dr. C. C. Parry, Miessrs. Elihu Hall, Harbour and Howard. 



Secondly, by the magnificent herbarium of the late Prof. Charles Wm. Short, 

 of Louisville, presented to our Academy by his family, on the liberal recom- 

 mendation of Prof. Asa Gray. 



Thirdly, by the handsome collection of Marine Algae, bequeathed to this in- 

 stitution by our late fellow-member, Mr. Samuel Ashmead. 



Fourthly, by another most valuable collection of Alg«, once the property of 

 Mr. Leo Lesquereux, of Columbus, Ohio, presented by him, as his contribution, 

 to the Philadelphia Sanitary Commission, and just purchased by the Curators. 



To the above I will add the Texas collections of Dr. Lincecum and Mr. Buck- 

 ley ; the herbarium of Dr. G. Watson, and several hundred plants from Wis- 

 consin and Iowa received from Mr. T. J. Hale, in exchange. 



The greatest part of the Colorado specimens were either new to our North 

 American herbarium, or duplicates (handsomer and more complete) of those 

 collected by Mr. Nuttall, in his rapid travels over the Rocky Mountains. 



The Short Herbarium is, indeed, the greatest acquisition ever made by our 

 Botanical Department, and will constitute two distinct large herbaria: one of 

 tropical, the other of extra tropical plants. The latter, already arranged by 

 Prof. Short himself, on the same Linnaeo- natural plan as our general herba- 

 rium, contains, as far as 1 can judge, about 4000 European and between 6 

 and 7000 North American species. Among the latter are many new plants to 

 our Botanical Department, derived principally from the last collections of Mr. 

 Charles Wright in New Mexico, Sonora and Cohahuila; from the Texano- 

 Mexican herbarium of Berlandier ; from the Collection of Ervendberg in the 

 province of Huasteca, and other Mexican plants from the collection of Drs. 

 Gregg and Coulter, besides a small number from the North American British 

 provinces. 



1864.] 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This herbarium is, perhaps, not excelled in the scientific world for the mag- 

 nificence, freshness and completeness of its specimens, and the costly stjle 

 with which it has been fitted up. It is contained in upwards of three hundred 

 wooden cases, elegantly shaped in the form of folio volumes, each volume ave- 

 raging from thirty to fifty specimens, enclosed separately in sheets of fine white 

 paper ; the large genera or several of the kindred genera under a colored cover, 

 and the American kept apart from the European, each in its portfolio. 



The tropical plants are yet in numerous unopened packages, consisting of 

 'HiOXtQXi^s Flora Neo-Oranadina, 1852-53 ; Fendler's PZan^a? Venezuelanse, 1854-57 ; 

 Couthony and Jameson's Plants of the Andes of Quito ; K. C. Alexander's Plantoe 

 Jamaicenses ; Ch. Wright's Plantse Cubenses, &c., &c. When these collections 

 are properly arranged, they will constitute an almost complete equatorial her- 

 barium of about 6000 species. 



Besides the above collections, I have to mention a package of East India 

 Ferns, collected by Dr. Griffith ; another of Australian Algae, with other minor 

 packages of Cryptogamous plants, and the two fine volumes of American Musci 

 et Eepaticse by Mr. Wm. S. Sullivan, all derived from the splendid Short-Her- 

 barium. 



Mr. Ashmead's collection of Algae is, I believe, principally composed of 

 American species. It is neatly set up in twelve elegant cases, in the form of 

 quarto volumes. 



The Lesquereux's collection is particularly valuable, containing over 700 

 species authenticated by the best Algologists of the age, Messrs. Lenormand, 

 Desmazieres, Agardh, Mongeot, Meklenbeck,Bonjean and others, among which 

 Mr. Lesquereux's name is not to be passed in silence. 



Respectfully, E. Dcrand, 



Chairman of the Botanical Committee. 



The election of officers for the ensuing year was held, in accordance 

 ■with the By-Laws, with. the following result: 



President ." Robert Bridges, M. D. 



'Vice-Presidents Wm. S. Vaux. 



John Cassin. 



Corresponding Secretary,..., Thomas Stewardson, M. D. 



Recording Secretary B. Howard Band, M. D. 



Librarian J. D. Sergeant. 



Treasurer Wm. C. Henszey. 



Curators Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 John Cassin, 

 J. D. Sergeant. 



Auditors Wm. S. Vaux, 



Joseph Jeanes, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



Puhlication Committee Wm. S. Vaux, 



Isaac Lea, 



Robert Bridges, M. D. 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D. 

 Thomas Stewardson, M. D. 

 [Dec. 




NATURAL SOISNOES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



ELECTIONS FOR 1864. 



The following persons were elected Members, — viz : 



Jan. 26. — Robt. Brigga, Augustus Fiot. 

 Feb. 23.— Prof. Richard S. Smith. 

 March 29. — John M. Maisch, J. R. Goodman, M. D. 

 April 26.— A. Paul Turner, M. D. 

 Jane 28. — Horatio C. Wood, Jr., M. D. 

 July 28. — Jos. Wharton. 



Nov. 29.— Dr. Frederich A. Kefifer, U. S. A., Geo. P. Knorr, M. D. 

 Chas. T. Bonsall. 

 Dec. 21.— J. T. Rothrock, Redwood F. Warner. 



The following were elected Correspondents : 



Jan. 26.^ Am. Boivin of Paris, Thos. Rupert Jones. 

 Feb. 23. — Alex. Agassiz, Cambridge, Mass. 

 April 26.— Dr. A. C. Hamlin, U. S. A. 



June 28. — Prof. Manly Miles, of Lansing, Mich, ; Maximilian, Prince 

 of Wied. 



Sept. 27. — P. J. Van Beneden, Bruxelles. 




294 CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY, 



For 1B64, 



Letters were received and read as follows : 



January 5th. — Thomas B. Wilson, M. D., Newark, Del., Jan. Ist, 1864, ac- 

 knowledging his election as President of the Academy. 



American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass., 22d Dec, 1863, acknow- 

 ledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Chicago Historical Society, 2'7th Dec, 1863, of the same tenor. 



February 9th. — Mr. Aug. Fiot, Bethlehem, Pa., 6th Feb., 1864, acknowledging 

 his election to membership. 



MarchSth. — Smithsonian Institution, Washington, Jan. 21st and 2d March, 

 1864, accompanying donations. 



March I5th. — The Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon, July 11th, 1863 ; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Hamburg, Feb. 15th, 1863; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, etc., Lyons, 11th April, 1863 ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, etc., Vienna, Aug. 25th, 1863 ; severally ac- 

 companying donations to the Library. 



The Royal Horticultural Society, London, Oct. I'Zth, 1863 ; 



Geological Society, London, Nov. 4, 1863 ; 



Natural History Society, Danzig, 8th Aug., 1863; 



Natural History Society, Niirnberg, Sept. 30th, 1863 ; 



Essex Institute, Salem, Mass., March 1st, 1864 ; 



New York State Library, Feb. 1st, 1864 ; 



Academy of Sciences, St. Louis, Jan. 30, 1864 ; severally acknowledging the 

 receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



Royal Society of Sciences, Leipzig, 22d Aug. and 11th Oct., 1863; 



Society of Natural Sciences, Luneberg, June 23 and Aug. 24, 1863 ; 



Royal Society of Zoology, Amsterdam, Aug. 25, 1863; 

 I Society of Friends of Natural History, Mecklenburg, Aug. 29, 1863 ; 



Natural History Society, Emden, Oct. 8th, 1863 ; transmitting their publica- 

 tions and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



j}farch 22d. — Historical Society, Chicago, March 18, 1864; 



The Literary and Historical Society, Quebec, March 17, 1864, each accompany 

 ing donations. 



M. Mechelin, Paris, Feb. 20th, 1864, proposing the sale of a collection of 

 Zoophytes. 



U. S. Sanitary Commission, March 15th and 22d, 1864, accepting the oflFer 

 of the use of the Hall of the Academy and returning thanks for the same. 



The American Philosophical Society, March 19th, 1864, submitting resolu- 

 tions of the Society in reference to the deposit of specimens. 



May 3d. — Imperial Society of Naturalists, Moscou, Sept., 1863 ; 

 Upper Hessian Society for Natural History, Giessen, Aug. 2'7th, 1863 ; 

 Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Nov. 18th, 1863; 

 Senckenberg Natural History Society, Frankfurt-am-Main, Nov. 5, 1863; 

 Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Berlin, Nov. 30, 1863; 

 Imperial Society of Agriculture, &c., Lyons, April 12, 1863; severally trans- 

 mitting their publications. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 



295 



German Geological Society, Berlin, Nov. 5th, 1863 ; 



Natural History Society, Halle, Oct. 30th, 1863 ; 



New York State Library, March 17, 1864 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, Feb, 26, April 3, June 25, July 13, 

 Oct. 29, Nov. 28, 1863 ; ^ 



Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society, Feb. 29, 1863 ; 



Natural History Society, Bern, (no date) ; 



Swiss Society of the Collective Natural Sciences, Bern, (no date) ; 



Batavian Society of Natural Sciences, Rotterdam, Oct. 19, 1863; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York, 23d Jan., 1864 ; 



Society " Isis," Dantzig, Nov., 1863 ; severally ackuowledgiag the receipt of 

 the publications of the Academy. 



The Society of Natural Sciences of the Duchy of Luneberg, June 28, 1863 ; 



Natural History Society, Freiburg, I9th Oct., 1863; 



Zoological Society, Frankfurt-am-Main, Jan., 1864; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Upsal, 15th Oct., 1863 ; 



Natural History Society, Augsburg, 28th Aug., 1863 ; 



Natural History Society, Dantzig, Oct. 22d, 1863 ; transmitting their publica- 

 tions and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



Society of Physicians, Steinmark in Graz, Dec. llth, 1863; 



Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg, Jan. 10th, 1864; requesting ex- 

 changes. 



July bth. — T. Rupert Jones, Sandhurst, Kng., June 1st, 1863, acknowledging 

 his election as correspondent. 



Alexander Agassiz, Cambridge, 5th May, 1864, of the same tenor. 



The British Museum, April 2'7th, 1864 ; 



Geological Society, London, April 27, 1864 ; 



New York State Library, June llth, 1864 ; 



Senckenberg Natural History Society, Jan. 30, 1864 ; 



Wurtemburg Soc. of Natural History, Oct., 1863 ; 



Royal Leopoldine-Carolinian Academy, Dresden, Sept. 7th, 1863 ; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York, June 15, 1864; 



Imperial Society of Naturalists, Moscow, 16th and 30th Dec, 1863 ; 



University Gottingen, June 16, 1864 ; 



Imperial Geological Institute, Vienna, Aug. 27, 1863 ; 



W. Haidinger, Vienna, Aug. 27, 1863; 



The Natural History Society, Augsburg, Dec, 1863 ; severally acknowledg- 

 ing the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



The Royal Society of Sciences, Gottingen, Feb., 1864 ; 



Royal Leopoldine-Carolinian Academy, Dresden, Feb. 24, 1864; 

 ' Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences, April 8th, 1864 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, June 16th, 1864; 



Catholic University of Louvain, Dec, 1863 ; 



Senckenberg Natural History Society, Jan. 30, 1864; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Liege, Jan. 24th, 1864; 



Society of Naturalists, Halle, Feb. 16, 1864 ; severally transmitting dona- 

 tions. 



The Geological Survey of India, 1st Oct., 1863, transmitting its publications 

 and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



August 23c?.— The Entomological Society, Philada., July 19th, 1864, trans- 

 mitting a donation from Prof. Gundlach. 



The Asiatic Society, Calcutta, April 25th, 1864, requesting a supply of defi- 

 ciencies of the Proceedings. 



October Uh. — C. L. Pascal, Philada., Oct. 4, 1864, bccompanying a donation 

 of specimens of Salmo fontinalis, with some remarks thereon. 

 Wm. Couper, Quebec, 26th Sept., 1864, offering to exchange Vols. I. — V. 




296 , CORRESPONDENCE. 



and part of Vol. VI. of the First Series of the Journal for a copy of Saj's 

 Entomology. 



November 1st. — Natural History Society of Prussian JRhineland and West- 

 phalia, 11th March, 1864; * 



Linnean Society, Emden, Aug. 5th, 1864 ; acknowledging the receipt of the 

 publications of the Academy. 



The Society of Natural Sciences, Zurich, 31st March, 1864, of the same tenor, 

 and desiring missing numbers. 



Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences, Feb. 29, 1864 ; 



Kojal Academy of Sciences of Madrid, May 3, 1864 ; 



Senckenberg Natural History Soc, June 7, 1864 ; 



Natural History Society, Lnneberg, May 2, 1864; seyerally transmitting 

 their publications. 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Vienna, June 23d, 1864; 



Society of Physics and Natural History, Geneva, June 21, 1864; transmit- 

 ting their publications and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 



The Natural History Society of Hanover, April 8, 1864, transmitting its pub- 

 lications and requesting exchange. 



December I3ih.— C. T. Bonsall, Philada., Dec. 12, 1864, and from Geo. F. 

 Knorr, Philada., Dec. 13, 1864, severally acknowledging their election as 

 members. 



The Royal Academy of Sciences of Madrid, April 20, 1864; 



Royal Society, London, May 16, 1864 ; 



Historical Society, Chicago, Dec. 9, 1864; severally acknowledging the re- 

 ceipt of the publications of the Academy. 



December 2l(h. — The Batavian Society of Sciences, Rotterdam, Aug. 20, 

 1864; 



Natural History Society, Augsburg, Sept. 6th, 1864; 



Imperial Society of Sciences, Moscow, Dec. 27, 1864 ; 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Oct. 8th and 10th, 1863 ; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam, Oct. 28th, 1863 ; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York, April 18, 1864 ; 



Senckenberg Natural Hist. Society, Frankfurt-am-Main, Oct., 1864 ; 



Society of Natural History, Luneberg, Oct. 16, 1864 ; 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, Jan. 27, 1864 ; 



Royal Lombardian Inslituie of Science, &c., Milan, Dec. 2, 1863 ; 



Acaderaj of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna, April 15, 1864 ; 

 * Natural History Society in Basel, Sept. 27, 1864; severally acknowledging 

 the receipt of the publications of the Academy. 



The Royal Danish Academy of Sciences, Copenhagen, June 9, 1864; 



Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam, April 4, 1864; 



Royal Society of Sciences, Upsal, Sept. 1, 1864; 



Society of Friends of Natural History, Mecklenberg, Sept. 18, 1864 ; 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta, March 22, 1864; 



Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna, April 18, 1864; 



Royal Meteorological Institute of the Low Countries, Utrecht, July 29, 1864 ; 

 severally transmitting their publications. 



The Royal Danish Academy, Copenhagen, June 9, 1864 ; 



Natural History Society in Halle, Sept. 27 and 28, 1864 ; 



Natural History Society in Emden, Oct. 1, 1864; severally transmitting their 

 publications and acknowledging the receipt of those of the Academy. 




DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



297 



DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM 



1864. 



Abadie, Dr. E. H. Nov. 22. Skull of a Mescalero Apache Indian. From the 

 Desert of the Black Hills, Texas. 



Algae. A collection of Marine and Fluviatile Algae, consisting of about 700 

 species. Purchased. 



American Philosophical Society. A large collection of Minerals, Fossils, 

 Shells, &c. , formerly comprising the natural history cabinet of the Ameri- 

 can Philosophical Society. Deposited. 



Ashmead, S. Apr. 19th. Recurvirostra americana, Beesley's Point, N. J. 

 A large collection of Minerals, being a selection from the cabinet of our 

 late fellow member Samuel Ashmead, and the entire collection of North 

 American Marine Algae, contained in twelve quarto volumes, formerly be- 

 longing to the same. A bequest. 



Bingham, F. R, Jan. 19th. Three species 'of Serpents, a Centipede, two 

 Insect Larvae and a large Tadpole. From Demarara. 



Cope, Edward D. May 11 th. Six specimens of a large Ganoid Fish. Two 

 Skulls, two Muzzles, an entire Animal and a sclerotal ring of Ichthyo- 

 saurus (two species.) Paddle of Ichthyosaurus, with the impression of 

 the Skin. From the Lias of Barrow, Leicestershire, England. Cast of 

 Prof. Fuhlrott's Neanderthal Skull. 



Cunningham, A. Nov. 22d. Large Fungus, Mt. Ephraim, N. J. 



Davidson, George. " March 8th. A small collection of MoUusks and Crusta- 

 ceans, from Florida Reef. 



Draper, E. Oct. Ath. Young Coluber eximius. 



Fisher, Dr. J. C. Nov. 15th. Cray Fish, from the Mississippi at New Orleans. 

 Large Oyster Shell, from Barata'ria Bay. 



Frazer, J. F. Dec. 20th. Two Fossil Whale Vertebrae, from a bluflf of York 

 River about five mi'es above Yorktown. 



Frazer, Robert. April 19th. Anas boschas, var., Atlantic City, N. J. 



Gilbert, Dr. D. Feb. 2(1. Two embryo Turtles and. Nest of the Hanging Bird. 



Gould, A. A. Jati. 5th. Six species of Strepomatidae. 



Guernsey, Lieut. A. W. Sept. 20th. Three Fossil Shells and the caudal 

 vertebra of a Whale, from the miocene formation, near City Point, Va. 



Gundlach, Dr. July 19th. Twenty species of Terrestrial MoUusks, from Cuba. 



Hartrauft, Gen. J. F. Nov. 15th. Fossil Whale Vertebra, from the miocene, 

 near Petersburg, Va. 



Hoopes, B. A. Nov. 15th. Stone Hammer, from the ancient copper mine pits 

 of Lake Superior. 



Jeanes, Joseph. Twenty-seven specimens, of thirteen species of Birds, from 

 Du Chaillu's collections in Western Africa. Forty-seven specimens, 18 

 species of Birds, from Mr. D'Oca's collections at Jalapa, Mexico. 



Kennicott, Robert. Feb. 9th. Five specimens, of four species of Mammals, 

 from Arctic America. March 8th. Twenty-two specimens, of twenty- 

 one species of Birds, from Arctic America. 



Kingsbury, Dr. Charles A. Oct. 4th. Salmo fontiualis, Hartford, Conn., and 

 Salmo amethystus, from Maidstone Lake, Essex Co., Vt. 



Knight, R. E. Specimen of Sigillaria, from Carroll Co., Ohio. 



Krider, John. Apr. 19th. Gerbillus canadensis, Bristol, Bucks Co., Pa. 

 Three species of Birds. 




298 DONATIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Kunkel, J. M. June 22rf. A collection of Fossil Plants and Shells, from the 



triassic rocks, near Frederick, Md. 

 Lawrence, George N. March Sth, Fifty specimens, of forty species of Birds, 

 from Guatemala and New Grenada. Apr. 19th. One species of Glosso- 

 phaga, from Panama. 

 Lea, I. Jan. 5th. One species of Strepomatidae. Feb. 2d. Seven species of 

 StrepomatidjB. Feb. 9th. Actinolite and Clinochlore, near Leni, Del. 

 Co., Pa. March Sth. WilliamlSite, Texa^?, Lancaster Co., Pa. ; Talc, 

 Dewe.ylite and Clinochlore, Westchester ; Leelite and Clinochlore, Union- 

 ville, Chester Co. ; and Chlorite, Leni, Del. Co. March 15th. Two 

 species of Physa. Apr. 12th. Five varieties of Emerylite and one of 

 Corundum, Chester Co. Apr. 19th. Crystallized Brucite, Texas, Lancas- 

 ter Co. ; Glassy Felspar, Del. Co. May 10th. Six specimens of Minerals, 

 from Chester Co. ; two from Texas, Lancaster Co., Pa. May 11th. Mica, 

 Apatite, Feldspar and Pyroxene, Geiseckite, Pargarite, Calcite, Brown 

 Tourmaline and Dodecahedral Quartz, from New; York. June 22d. Two 

 species of Strepomatidae. Dec. 13th. Talc, Westchester ; two specimens 

 Octohedral Iron, Knauertown, Pa. 

 Leidy, Joseph. Sept. 20th. Twenty-two Fossil Echini, from Mecklenberg, 



Germany. 

 Lewis, Col. W. D. Sept. 20th. A Fossil Fish, from Solenhofen. 

 Low, H. L. July 12th. Corydalus cornutus. 

 Merritt, George. See Morris. 



Miller, Violletta W. Nov. 22d. Large Polypoms, Westville, N. J. 

 Morris, Dr. J. C. Nov. 15th. A small collection of Marine Animals, from 

 Newport, R. L Presented by Dr. .1. C. Morris, S. Powel and George 

 Merritt. 

 Nassau, Rev. R. H. June lAth. A collection of Reptiles, Julidae and Marine 



Animals, from Corisco, West Africa. 

 Norris, Thad. Oct. 4th. Head of a huge Pike, from Connaught Lake, near 

 Meadville, Pa. A four pound Trout, Salmo fontinalis, from near Lake 

 Superior. 

 Painter, Mr. Jan. 5th. A Fossil Coral. 

 Pascal, C. L. Oct. Ath. Three Trout, Salmo fontinalis, one weighing five and 



three-quarter pounds, from Sault St. Marie. 

 Peale, F. Apr., 5th. Six Fossil Bones and Worked Flints, from Abbeville, 



France. Received by Mr. Peale from M. De Perthes. 

 Powel, S. Sept. 20th. A Scutella, from Newport, R. I. 

 Sergeant, J. D. Six specimens Ores of Manganese, Gloucester Co., N. B. 

 Shepard, C. U. Apr. 12th. Eleven fragments of Meteorites and a large Ru- 



tile, from Georgia. Received in exchange. 

 Short, Prof. Charles W. The complete herbarium of the late Prof. Charles 

 W. Short, of Louisville, Ky., consisting of more than 6000 species of 

 North American Plants, and 3000 or 4000 European species, enclosed in 

 * 300 quarto volumes, besides numerous packages of Tropical Plants. Pre- 

 sented by the family of Prof. Short, through the recommendation of 

 Prof. Asa Gray. 

 Smithsonian Institution. Jan. 5th. Seven species of Strepomatidae. March 

 Sth. Thirty-one specimens, of twenty-eight species of Birds, from the 

 collection of the United States Exploring Expedition, of the Vincennes 

 and Peacock, and two specimens from Europe. Seventy-one species of 

 Marine Mollusca in alcohol, mostly American. Two hundred and eighty- 

 seven species of Shells, mostly American. Sixty-two species Crustacea, 

 mostly from the U. S. Exploring Expedition. Sixteen species of Echi- 

 noderms in alcohol. The collection labelled by Dr. Wm. Stimpson. Apr. 

 5th. Three species of Birds, from Mexico. July 19th. Twenty-seven 

 Bpecimens of Rocks. Sept. 20th. A collection of about one hundred 

 specimens of Birds, from Siam. Oct. 18th. Three species of Birds from 

 Madagascar. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 299 



Trautwine, J. C. June 22d. Pyrolusite, Nova Scotia. Shale with minute 

 Shells, Nova Scotia. 



Tryon, George W. Jr. Four species of Strepomatidse. March 15th. Pour 

 species of Murex. Apr. 12th. Six species of MoUusca. June 22d. 

 Twenty-seven species Helix, twenty- eight Partula, two Succinea, one Vi- 

 trina, one Testacella, two Bulimus and six Achatinella. Nov. 15th. Four 

 species of Cyclostoma, six Cylindrella, four Melampus, one Pupina, Six 

 teen Clausilia, two Truncatella, seven Pupa, two Physa, one Lymnaea, 

 five Planorbis, two Lithoglyphus, six Bithinia, three Amnicola, one Spi- 

 raxis, four Vivapara, twelve Neritina, six Melanopsis. 



Vaux, W. S. Oct. 11th. A fine specimen of crystallized Brucite, Texas, 

 Lancaster Co., Pa. 



Ward, George W. Jan. 19th. Large mass of Teredo, from the Marl of Salem 

 Co., N. J. 



Wharton, Joseph. July 12th^ Eighteen Minerals, from Lancaster Co. 



Wilson, Dr. Thomas B. March 22d. Sixty-five specimens, of thirty-five 

 species of Birds, from Duchaillu's collections in West Africa. Apr. 5th. 

 Twenty-three specimens of Birds, from Mr. D'Oca's collections at Jalapa, 

 Mexico. Apr. 15th. Two species of Birds, from Port Natal. Sixty two 

 specimens of Birds, from Mr. Duchaillu's collections in Western Africa. 

 Oct. 18th. Twenty specimens of Birds, from Ecuador; fourteen speci- 

 mens, of seven species of Birds, from Duchaillu's collections in West 

 Africa. Tringa himantopus. Long Island, N. Y. 



Wood, Chris. J. Apr. 5th. Zonotrichia Pennsylvanica. 



Wood, Wm. S. Apr. 5th. Two species of Birds. 



Wyld, Thos. July 12th. Fine specimen of Oreophasis Derbyanus. 



Xantus, J. Sept. 20th. Specimens of Cuculus canorus, from Hungary. 



DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 

 1864. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 



Upsal. Nova Acta Regiae Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis. Seriei Tertiae, 

 vol. 4, Fasc. 2, and vol. 5, Fasc. 1. 1863—64. From the Society. 



DENMARK. * 



Copenhagen. Oversigt over det K. Danske Vidensltabernes Selekabs Forhand- 

 lingar og dets Medlemmers Arbeider i Aaret, 1862 and 1863. From the 

 Society. 

 Videnskabelige Meddelelser fra den Naturhistoriske Porening for Aarets 

 1849 to 1862. 8 vols., 8vo. 1850—1863. From the Society. 

 Christiania. Forhandlingar i Videnskabs-Selskabet. Aarets 1858 — 62. From 

 the Society. 

 Forhandlingar ved de Skandinaviske Naturforskeres Fjerde und Syvende 

 Mode. 1847—1856. From the Society. 



NORWAY. 



Drontbeim. Det K. Norske Videnskaber Selkabs Skrifter i det 19de Aarhun- 

 drede. 1859. From the Society. 




300 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



RUSSIA. 



Moscow. Bulletin de la Soci^t^ Imp4riale des Naturalistes de Moscoa. Ann^e 



1863, Nos 1 and 2. From the Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Bulletin de I'Academie Imp. des Sciences. Tome 4, Nos. 8 — 11. 



Tome 5, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Neue Nordische Beytrage zur Physikalischen und Geographischen Erd-und 



Volkerbeschreibung, Naturgeschichte, &c. T Tols., 8vo, 1781 — 1796. 



From the Library Fund. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Nederlandsch Tijdschrift voor de Dierkunde uitgegeven door 



het K. Zoologisch, Genootschap Natura Artis Magista. Jabrg. 1, All. 



1 — 5. From the Society. 

 Verslagen en Mededeelingen der K. Akademie van Wettenschappen. Af- 



deeling Naturkunde. 15e und 16e Deels. Afdeeling letterkunde. 7e 



Deel. From the Society. 

 Stockholm. Ofversigt af K. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar Sjuttonde, 



Adertonde Argangen 1860 — 62. From the Society. 

 K. Svenska Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar. Tredje Bandet, Forsta 



und Andra Haftet and Fjerde Bandet. 1st Haftet. 1862. From the 



Society. 



GERMANY. 



Augsburg. Secbzebnier und Siebenzebnter Bericht des Naturhistoriscben Ve- 



rein. 1863. From the Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Von Dr. F. H. Troschel. 29er Jahrg., 

 2es Heft to 30er Jahrg., 2es Heft. From the Editor. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutscben Geologiscben Gesellschaft. 15 Band, 2es Heft 



to 16 Band, 2es Heft. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die Gesammten Naturwissenscbaften. Herausgegeben von 

 dem Naturw. Vereine fiir Sachaen und Tburingen in Halle. Jahrg. 

 1862, 1863 and Jan., 1864. Berlin. From the Society. 

 Wochenscbrift des Vereins zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues. 6 Jahrg., 



Nos. 31 — 51. 7er Jahrg., Nos. 1 — 30. From the Society. 

 Physikalische Abhandlungen der K. Akad. der Wissen, Aus dem Jahre 



1862. From the Society. 

 Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift. ler Jahrg., 1863, 3es und 4es Heftes. 

 Ses Jahrg., les und 2es Heftes. 1863 — 64. From the Entomological 

 Society of Berlin. 

 Monatsberichte der K. P. Akademie der Wissenchaften. 1863. From the 

 Society. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen des Naturhistoriscben Vereines der Preussiscben Rhein- 



lande und Westpbalens. 20er Jahrg., 1863. From the Society. 

 Briinn. Eilfter und 12er Jabres iiber die Wirksamkeit des Werners-Vereins. 

 1861 — 62. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen des Natursforschenden Vereines. 1 Band, 1862. From 

 the Society. 

 Cassel. Journal fiir Ornithologie. Hefts 1 — 6, 11 Jahrg. From the Library 

 Fund. 

 Malakozoologische Blatter. Bands 9 und 10. From the Library Fund. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Vereins fiir Erdkunde und verwandte Wissenschaf- 



ten. III. Folge, 2 Heft, Nos. 13—24. 1863. From the Society. 

 Dresden. Verhandlungen der K. Leop. Carol. Deutscben Akademie der 

 Naturforscher. 3er Band. 1864. From the Society. 

 Sitzungs-berichte der Naturwissencbaftliche Gesselschaft Isis, 1863. From 

 the Society. 

 Emden. Achtundvierzigster Jahresbericht der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 

 1862. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 301 



Prankfurt-am-Main. Der Zoologische Garten. Nos. 1 — 12, 4 Jahrg. No. 1, 



5 Jahre. From the Editor. 

 Abhandlungen ; herausgegeben von der Senckenbergischen Naturfor- 



schenden Gesellschaft. 14 Bandes, 3e und 4e Lief. 1863. From the 



Society. 

 Freiburg. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 



Band 3, Heft 1. 1863. From the Society. 

 Giessen. Zehnter Bericht der Oberhessischen Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und 



Heilknnde. Giessen, 1863. From the Society. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der Georg-Augusts-Universitiit. Jahrg., 1863, 



Nr. 1 — 21, From the University. 

 Halle. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesselschaft zu Halle. 8ea 



Bandes, les und 2e3 Heftes. 1864. From the Society. 

 Der Naturforscher. 30 parts in 15 vols., 8vo. Halle, 1774 — 1802. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Hamburg. Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenschaften heraus- 

 gegeben von dem Naturwissenchaftliche Verein. 1862. From the 



Society. 

 Hannover. Dreizehnter Jahresbericht der Naturhistorischen Gesellschaft zu 



Hannover. 1863. From the Society. 

 Konigsberg. Schriften der K. Phys-Okonomischen Gesellschaft zu" Konigsberg. 



Vierter Jahrg., les und 2e8 Abth. 1863. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der K. S. Gesellschaft der Wissen- 



schaften zu Leipzig, 1862 nnd 1863. From the Society. 

 Luneburg. Zwolfter und Dreizehnter Jahresbericht des Naturwissenschaft- 



licben Vereins. 1862 — 3. From the Society. 

 Munich. Abhandlungen des Philosoph-Philologischen Classe der K. B. Aka- 



demie der Wissen. Neunter Bandes, Dritte Abth. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen of the Math.-Phys. Classe of the same. Neunten Bandes, 



3e Abth. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. B. Akad. der Wissen. 1863. L Hefts 1—4 ; IL 



Hefts 1—4. 1863. From the Society. 

 Faunas, Zeitschift fiir Zoologie, &c. 4 parts, 8vo. 1832. From the Li- 

 brary Fund. 

 Neubrandenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in 



Mecklenburg. 17 Jahrg. 1863. From the Society. 

 Neustadt A. d. H. Eighteeoth, 19th, 20th and 21st Jahresbericht der Pollichia 



Herausg. von dem Ausschusse des Vereines. 1863. From the Society. 

 OflFenbach-am-Main. Vierter Bericht des OflFenbacher Vereins fiir Naturkunde 



iiber Seine Thatigkeit. 1863. From the Society. 

 Der Dr. Job. Christ. Senckenbergischen Stiftung widmet zu Ihrer Saecu- 

 larfeier am 18 Aug., 1863. Diese Denkschrift der Offenbacher Verein 



fiir Naturkunde. From the Society. 

 Regensburg. Correspondenz-Blatt des Zoologisch-Minerologischen Vereines. 



I7e Jahrg. 1863. From the Society. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung. Herausgegeben von dem Entomologischen 



Vereine. 24 Jahrg. Stettin, 1863, From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die Thatigkeit der St. Gallischen Naturwissenschaft- 



lichen Gesellschaft. 1862 — 63. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Palaeontologie. 



Jahrg. 1863, Viertes Heftes to 1864, 5es Heft. From the Editors. 

 Wurttembergische Naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 19er Jahrgang, 



les Heft. 1863. From the Society. 

 Vienna. Wiener Entomologische Monatschrift. 7 Band, Nos. 1 — 12. 1863. 

 From the Editors. 

 Die Feierlicbe Sitzung der K. Akad. der Wissenschaften am 30 Mai, 1862. 



From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akad. der Wissen. Math-Naturwissen. Classe. 



Jahrg. 1862, 46 Bands, Nos. 1 und 2 to 49 Band, No. 1. From the So- 

 ciety. 




302 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Jahrbuch der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanatalt. 1863. 13 Band, Nos. 2 



to 14 Band, No. 2. From the Society. 

 Denkschriften der K. Akademie der Wissenschiften. Math-Naturwissen. 



Classe. 21 und 22er Bandeu. Wien, 1863. Prom the Society. 

 VerhandluDgen der K. K. Zool.-Botanischen Gesellschaft. Jahrg. 1863. 



From the Society. 

 Wurzburg. Wurzburger Naturwissenchaftliche Zeitschrift. Herausgegeben 



von der Physikalisch-Medecinischen Gesellschaft. Vierter Band, 1 Heft. 



1863. From the Society. 

 Sixty-nine Medical Theses. From the University of Wurzeburg. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Geneva. Bibliotheque Universelle et Revue Suisse. Archiv des Sciences 



Physique et Naturelles. Nouvelle Periode. Nos. 70 — 82. From the 



Editors. 

 M^moires de la Soci6t6 de Physiques et d'Histoire Naturelles. Tome 17, 



Premiere Partie. 1863. From the Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Society Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 7, 



Bulletin No. 50. 1863. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 6, 2d CahLer. 



1863. From the Society. 

 Zurich. VierteljahreBchrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 6er uad 7er 



Jahrg. 1861—63. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Liege. M^moires de la Soci^t^ Royale des Sciences. Tome 18. 1863. From 



the Society. 

 Louvain. Annuaire de I'Universite Catholique. 27me Ann^e. 1863. From 



the University. 

 Fourteen Theses. From the University. 

 Mons. M^moires et Publications de la Soci6t6 des Sciences, (fee, du Hainaut. 



1863. From the Society. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. M^moires de la Soci6t6 Academique de Maine et Loire, lime et 



12me vols. From the Society. 

 Caen. Bulletin de la Soci6t6 Linn^enne de Normandy. 8me vol. Ann4e 



1852—63. From the Society. 

 Cherbourg. M6moire3 de la Soci6t6 Imp^riale des Sciences Naturelles. Tome 



9. From the Society. 

 Dijon. Journal d'Agricnlture de la Cote-D'Or Pabli^ par la Soci^t^ d'Agri- 



culture. Ann6e 1862. 24e vol. Dijon, 1862. From the Society. 

 M^moires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, &c., de Dijon. 2me S^rie, 



Tome lOme. 1862 — 63. From the Society. 

 Lyon. M^moires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, &c. Classe des Sciences. 



Tomes lOme — 12me. Classe des Lettres. Tomes 9me et lOme. 1861 — 



62. From the Society. 

 Annales des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles, &c., Public par la Soci^te 



Imperiale d'Agricnlture, etc., de Lyon. 3me Sdrie, Tomes 2 — 6. 1858 



— 62, From the Society. 

 Montpellier. Academic des Sciences et Lettres. Section des Sciences. Tome 



5. From the Society. 

 Paris. Revue et Magasin de Zoologie. 1863, No. 11, to 1864 No. 10. From 



the Library Fund. 

 M6moires de la Soci^t4 des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Bordeanx. 



Tome 2, 2e Cahier. Paris, )863. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Society de I'Acclimatation. From tome 10, No. 11, to tome 



1, 2me S6rie, No. 9. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 303 



Annales des Sciences Naturelles Comprenant la Zoologie la Botanie, kc. 



From 4me S6rie lOe Ann4f, t. 19, Bot. No. 5 to Bot. tome I, 5me Serie, 



No. 5. From the Library Fund. 

 M^moires de I'Academie des Sciences de I'lnstitut TmptSrial de France. 



Tome 26. Paris, 1862. From the Academy. 

 Annales des Mines. Sixifeme Serie, tome 4, 4e liv. to tome 5me, 2e liv. 



From the Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Jonrnal de la Physiologic de I'Homme et des Animaux. Nos. 20 to 23. 



1863. From the Library Fund. 

 Journal de I'Anatomie et de la Physiologie. Publico par MM. Brown- 



S(3quard et Ohas. Robin. Premiere Annee, Nos. 1 to 5. 1864. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Comptes Rendus de Stances et Memoires de la Societe de Biologie. Tome 



4me. 1862. From the Society. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e S^rie, tome 4, Nos. 1 et 2. 1864. From 



the Editors. 

 Actes de I'Academie Imp^riale des Sciences, &c.,de Bordeaux. 3me S^rie, 



25e Annee, ler — 4e Trimestres. 1863. From the Society. 

 Comptes Rendus Hebdomadaires des Stances de I'Academie des Sciences. 



Tomes 54—56. 1862—63. From the Academy. 

 Annales de la Soci6te Entomologique de France. 3me Serie, tome 8, 4me 

 ^ S6rie, tomes Ime — 3me. 1861 — 64. From the Society. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Nouvi Annali delle Scienze Naturali. Tomes 1 — 10; 2d Serie, 



tomes 1 — 10; 3d S6rie, tome 1 — 10; 30 volumes. 1838. From the 



Library Fund. 

 Rendiconto delle Sessioni dell' Accademia delle Scienzi dell' Institute di 



Bologna. Anno Accademico, 1860 — 63. From the Society. 

 Memoires of the same. S^rie 2, tomes 1 et 2. From the Society. 

 Milan. Reale Instituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere R^ndiconti. Classe di 



Scienze Matematiche e Naturali. Vol. i. Fasc. 1 — 3. Classe di Lettere, 



&c. Vol. i. Fasc. 1—2. 1864. From the Society. 

 Naples. Societa Reale di Napoli. Rendiconto dell' Accademia delle Scienze, 



&c. 1862, Fasc. 1—8; 1863, Fasc. 1—7; 1864, Fuse. 1—2. 1862—63 



— 64. From the Society. 

 Atti dell' Accademia. Vol. i. 1863. From the Society. 

 Torinoi Memoire deila Reale Accademia delle Scienze de Torino. Serie Se- 



conda, tome 20. 1863. From the Academy. 



PORTUGAL. 



Lisbon. Historia e Memorias da Academia Real des Sciencias de Lisboa. 

 Classe de Sciencias, Moraes, Politicas, &c. New Series, tome 2, part 2. 

 From the Society. 



SPAIN. 



Madrid. Memorias de la Real Academia di Ciencias, &;c. Ciencias Exactas. 

 Tome, part 2. Ciencias Fisicas. Tome 1, part 3, and tome 2, part 1. 

 1863. From the Society 



GREAT BRITAIN .\ND IREL.\ND. 



Dublin. The Jonrnal of the Royal Dublin Society. Nos. 30 and 31, July, 



1863. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Natural History Society of Dublin. Session 1862 — 63. 



Vol. 4, part 1. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. 24. An'iqatties. Part 



2, 1864. From the Society. 




304 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Edinburgh. Proceedings of the Royal Physical Society. Sessions 1858 — 62. 



From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. 1 862 — 63. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 23, part 2. From the Society. 

 Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal. New Series, No. 37, vol. 19, No. 1. 



From the Editors. 

 Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society. The Annual Report for 1862 — 63. 



From the Society. 

 Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society. 1862 — 63. 



No. 17. From the Society. 

 London. The Athenaeum Journal. From parts 430 — 441. From Dr. Wilson, 



on the usual conditions. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Horticultural Society. From vol. 2, No. 11 to 



vol. 4, No. 8. From the Society. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. From vol. 19, part 4, to 



vol. 20, part 3. From the Society. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. From No. 72 — 82. From 



the Library Fund. 

 The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Nos. 177 — 



189. From the Library Fund. 

 The Nautical Magazine and Naval Chronicle. Vol. 33, No. 1. From the 



Publishers. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Vol. 4, parts 1 and 



2, Nos. 37 and 8. From the Society. 

 List of Members, &c., of the same. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. 12, No. 56, to vol. 13, No. 67. 



From the Society. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the same. 1863. Vol. 153, parts 1 and 2. 



From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Entomological Society of London. Third Series, vol. 



1, part 8, to vol. 2, part 2. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Chemical Society. New Series, Nos. 10—21. From the 



Society. 

 The Anthropological Review and Journal of the Anthropological Society. 



Nos. 3, 4 and 5. From the Society. 

 The Natural History Review. Nos. 1 — 8. London, 1861 — 62. In ex- 

 change. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 



Vol. 20, parts 3 and 4. 1863. From the Society. 

 The Reader. No?. 65 — 67. From the Editor. 



Notes and Queries. Parts 26 — 29. New Series. From the Editors. 

 Journal of the Proceedings of the Linnean Society. Zoology. Vol. 7, 



Nos. 27—29. Botany. Vol. 7, Nos. 27—29. 1863—64. From the 



Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 24, part 2. 1863. From the same. 

 Two Addresses and List of Members. From the same. 

 Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society, 1863. 



Parts 1—3, Jan. to Dec, 1863. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. 5, part 3. 1864. From the Soriety. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Transactions of the Tyneside Naturalists' Field-Club. 



Vol. 6, parts 1 and 2. From the Society. 



UNITED STATES. 



Boston. Boston Journal of Natural History. Vol. 7, No. 4. From the Boston 

 Society of Natural History. 



Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 9, p.p. 225 — 

 256. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBKARY. 305 



Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Societj. April 7, 1864. From 

 the Sjciety. 

 Cambridge, liulleiin of tbe Museum of Comparative Zaology, Pp. 29—60. 



From the Directors. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Conducted by 

 Profd. Silliman and Dana. Vol. 37, Nos. 109 — 114. From ihe Editors. 

 New York. American Medical Times. From vol. 7, No. 26, to vol. 9, No. 10. 

 From Ijje Editors. 

 Annals of tbe Lyceum of Natural History. Vol. 7, Nos. 13—16, and vol. 

 8, No. 1. 1862—63. From the Society. 

 Philadelphia. The Dental Cosmos. From vol. 5, No. 6, to vol. 6, No. 5. From 

 the Editors. 

 Journal of the Franklin InBtitute. From vol. 76, No. 456, to vol. 78, No. 



467. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. From vol. 35, No. 1, to vol. 12, 3d Series, 



No. 6. From the Editor. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. 1864. From the Editor. 

 The Eclectic Medical Journal. Vol. 7, No. 1. From the Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Edited by Thos. Meehan. From vol. 5, No. 12, 



to vol. 6, No. 12. From the Editor. 

 The American Pomologist. No. 1, vol. 1, 1851. From Chas. H. Hart. 

 Proceedinorg of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. 9, No. 78. From 

 the Society. 

 Portland. Journal of the Portland Society of Natural History. Vol. 1, No. 1. 



Fiom the Society. 

 Salem. Proceedings of the Essex Institute. Vol. 4, Nos. 1 — 3. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Ban Francisco. Proceedings of the Acad. Nat. Sci. of California. Vol. 3, 

 Nov. and Dec. 1863 and Jan. 1864. From the Society. 

 Mining and Scientific Press. Vol. 8, No. 6. From the Editor. 

 Springfield. Transactions of the Illinois State Agricultural Society. Vols. 2, 

 3 and 4. 1856—60. From the Society. 



CANADA. 



Halifax. The Transactions of the Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Science- 

 Vol. 2, p^rl 1. 1864. From the Society. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Vol. 8, No. 6, to New Se- 

 ries, vol. 1, No. 5. From the Editors. 



Quebec. Tranjactious of the Literary and Historical Society. Vol. 4, parts 

 1 and 2, and Appendix. New Series, parts 1 and 2. 1864. From the 

 Society. 



Toronto. 'Ihe Canadian Journal of Industry, Science and Art. New Series, 

 Nos. 49 — 54. From the Canadian Insiitute. 

 The Journal of the Board of Arts and Manufactures for Upper Canada. 

 Vol. 4, No, 2, to vol. 5, No. 1. From the Editors. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Naturkundig Tijdschriftvoor Nederlandsch Indie. Deel 24 — 26. 1863. 

 From the Natural History Society. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC WORKS. 



Abel, Tho". Subtential Plain Trigonometry. Philadelphia, 1761. From Chas. 



H. Hart. 

 Abstracts of Magnetical Observations made at tbe Mngnetical Obfervatory, 



ToruiKO, 0. W., during the Years 1856 to 1862, inclufcive. 1863. From 



the University of Toronto. 



20 




306 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Alien, Dr. H. Monograph of the Bats of North America. Smithsonian Mia- 



cfllaneons Collections. Washington, June, 1864. From the Smithso- 

 nian Institution. 

 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of India, 1862 — 63. Calcutta, 1863, 



From the Survey. 

 Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, 1863. 



Boston, 1864. From the Trustees. 

 Baird, Prof. S. F. Review of American Birds in the Museum of the Smithso- 

 nian Institution. Part I. From the Institution. 

 Balfour, J. H. Notice of the State of the Open-Air Vegetation in the Edin- 

 burgh Botanic Garden during December, 1863. From the Author. 

 Description of the Fruit and Seed of Clerodon Thompsonse. From tb* 



Author. 

 Berg, Dr. 0. C. Darstellung und Beschreibung Sammtlicher in der Pharma- 



copoea Borussica Aufgefiihrten Officinellen Gewachse. Vierter Band. 



Leipzig, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Binney. W. G. Synopsis of the Pulmonifera of North America. From the 



Smithsonian Institution. 

 Blanche rd, E. L'Organisation du Regne Animal. 37 et 38 Livr. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Bland, Thos. Remarks on the Classification of North American Helices. From 



the Author. 

 Bourguitrnat, M. J. R. Mnjacologie de I'Algerie. Irae — 4me Fasc. Paris, 



1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Brandt. Recueil de M^moires Relatifs 4 1'Ordre des Insectes Myriapods. From 



the Library Fund. 

 British Museum. Catalogues of — 

 Halticidae. Part 1, 



Birds of the Tropical Islands of the Pacific Ocean, 

 Mammalia and Birds of New Guinea, 



British Diatomacfae, • 



Lepidopterous Insects. Parts 21 — 25. London, 1859 — 62. 



From Dr. Wibon, on the usual conditions. 

 Brace, Jas. Reisen in das Innere von Africa naeh Abyssinien. A German 



edition of Bruce's Travels, with a Natural History Appendix by Prof. 



J. F. Gmelin. 2 vols. 12mo. Leipzig, 1791. From the Library Fund. 

 Brunet, I'Abbe Ovide. Notice sur les Plantes de Michaux, &c. Quebec, 1863. 



From the Author. 

 Oabanis, Dr. J. Museum Heineanum. Theilens 1 — 4. Halberstadt, 1862 — 63. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Capellini, G. Relazione di un Viaggio Scientifico fatto nel 1863 nell America 



Setientrionale. Bologna, 1864, From the Author. 

 Carpenter, P. P. Catalogue of the Collection of Mazatlan Shells in the British 



Museum. London, 1851. From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Castelnau, M, lo Comte, F. M^moire sur les Poissons de I'Afrique Australe. 



Paris, 1861. From Dr, Wilson, on the usu»l conditions. 

 Castilla, Rey D. Alfonso X. de Castilla. Libros del Saber de Astronomia del, 



copilados, anotados y comentados por Don Manuel Rico y Sioolas. 



Tonios 1 and 2. Folio. Madrid, 1863. From the Royal Academy of 



Sciences, of Madrid. 

 Olaus, Dr. C. Ueber die Grenze des Thifirischen und Pflanzlichen Lebens. 



Leipzig, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions- 

 Oiiuton, Geo. W. Preliminary List of Plants of Buffalo and its vicinity. 



Buffalo, 1864. From the Author. 

 Cornay, J. E. M^moire sur I'Utilite d'un Conseil de Provision destiny a I'Etade 



des causes des accidents et des moyens les prevenir. Paris, 1863. From 



the Author. 

 M^moire sur I'Unit^ de Speciality des especes humaines. 1862, From 



the Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 307 



Oorrea, Lendag da India. Tomo 3. Parte 1 and 2. Lisboa, 1862 — 63. From 

 the Academy of Lisbon. 



Goste, M. Histoire generale et particuliere dn D6veloppement des corps organi- 

 ses. Tomes 1 and 2, 4to, and Atlas Livrs. 1 — 4. Folio. Paris, 1847. 

 From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Couch, Jon. A History of the Fishes of the British Islands. 3 vols., 8vo. 

 London, 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Dana, J. D. I. The classification of Animals based on the principle of Gepha- 

 lization. 

 No. III. Classification of Herbivores. From the Author. 

 No. II. Note on the position of Amphibians among the classes of Verte- 

 brates. 

 On the Fossil Insects from the Carboniferous formation in Illinois. From 

 the Author. 



Dawson, J. W. Synopsis of the Flora of the Carboniferous Period in Nora 

 Scotia. From the Author. 

 Further observations on the Devonian Plants of Maine, &c. From the 

 Author. 



Davis, Dr. J. B. Italian Anthropology. From the Author. 



The Neanderthal Skull. London, 1864. From the Author. 



Dean, Dr. J. The Gray Substance of the Medulla Oblongata and Trapezium. 

 Washington, 1864. Nine photographs, Author's copy. From the Author^ 



De GandoUe, A. Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis. Pars 15. 

 Paris, 1864. From Dr. W^ilson, on the usual conditions. 



Deshayes, M. G. P. Conchyliologie de I'lsle de la Reunion (Bourbon.) Paris, 



1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Des Moulins, Ch. Plants Rares de la Gironde. Bordeaux, 1863. From the 



Author. 

 Desnoyers, M. J. Note sur des Indices mat^riels de la Coexistence del'Homme 



avec I'Elephas meridionalis. From the Author. 

 Douglas, Rev. J. The Gold Fields of Canada. Quebec, 1863. From the 



Author. 

 Dozy, F. Bryologia Javanica. Auctoribus F. Dozy et J. K. Molkenhaur. Fasc. 



37 — 40. Lugdnni-Batavorum, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual 



conditions. 

 Dubois, Cb. F. Oiseaux del' Europe. Livrs. 1T5 to 188. Bruxelles, 1863 — 64. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Dunker, Dr. W. Palaeontographica. Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Vorwelt. 



From Band 9, 5te Lief, to Band 11, 63te Lief. From Dr. Wilson, on 



the usual conditions. 

 Noviiates Conchologicte. From 1 Lief, to Supplement iii. 1 Lief, From 



the same. 

 Elliott, D. G. A Monograph of the Tetraoninae. Parts 1 and 2. New York, 



1864. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 



Brichson, Dr. W. F. Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschlands. Erste Abth. 



Vierter Band. Berlin, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Fick, Dr. L. Physiologische Anatomie des Menschen. 8vo. Leipzig, 1845. 



From the Library Fund. 

 Forg, Dr. A. Beitrage zur Kenntniss vom innern Baue des Menschlichen Ge- 



biros. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1844. From the Library Fund. 

 Fourth Annual Report of the Board of Agriculture, of the Province of New 



Brunswick. Frederick, 1864. From the Natural History Society of New 



Brunswick. 

 Fries, Elias. Mouographia Hymenomycetum Sueciae. Vol. ii. Upsaliae, 1863i 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Geinitz, Dr. H. B. Dyas oder die Zechsieinformation und das Rothliegende. 



Heft 1. Leipzig, 1861. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Geological Survey of Canada. Montreal, 1863. From the Survey. 




808 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Gerhardt, Carl. Der Stand des Diaphragma's. Tubingen, 1860. From the 



Author. 

 Ooes, A. Crustacea decapoda podophthalma marina Sueciae. From the Nor- 

 way University. 

 Graesse, J. (i. S. Tiijsor de Livres rares et precieux. Tome 5me. Liv's ii. to 



V. . From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Grasberger, L. De Usu Pliniano. Wirceburgi, 1860. From the Author. 

 Grisebach, A. P an ae Wrighiianae, e Cuba Orientali. Parts 1 and 2. Cam- 

 bridge, 1860—62. From Mrs. Dr. C. W. Short. 

 Floras of the Briiiih West Indian Islands. Parts 1 — 4. From the Exeou- 



lors of Dr. Short. 

 S:ime. Parts 5 and 6. From the Library Fund. 

 Haeckei, E. Die Ridiolarien (Rhi/.opoda Kadiaria.) 2 vols. fol. Beilin, 1862. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Hall, James. Comributions to Palaeontology. Albany, 1863. From the 



Author. 

 Hansen, P. A. Darlegung der Theoretischen Berechnung der in den Mondta- 



feln angewandten Storupgin. Zvveite Abhandlung. Leipzig, 1864. 



From the K. S. Geselischafo der Wissenschaften. 

 Harting, P. Ilecherches sur la nature et les causes do la Maladie des Pommes 



de Terre, en 1845. From the Au'hor. 

 Hartlaub, Dr. G. Ornithologisuhe Beitrage zur Fauna Madagascar's. Bremen, 



1861. From Dr. Wilso^, on the usual conditions. 

 Heer, Oswald. Recherches sur le Climit et la Vegetation du Pays Tertiaire. Tra- 



diiftion de Ch. T. Gaudin. Winterthur, Geneva and Paris. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual condi'ions. 

 Die Urwel' der Schweiz von O.-wald Heer. Erste fo Elfte Lief. Zurich, 



1864. Prom Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Heller, Dr. C. Die Crustaceen des Siidlichen Europa. Wien, 1863. From 



D-. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Henry, L. De Residentia Ben^fi^i^torum Lovanii. 1863. From the Author. 

 Hewitson, Wu). C. Exotic Butterflies. Parts 49 to 52. London, 1864. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Hoffman, II. Lidex Fungorum. Lipsiae, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the 



usual conditions. 

 Hoffmeister, Dr. W. Die Botanischen Ergebni8?e der Reise seiner K. H >heit 



des Priiizen Waldemar von Preuiisen, in den Jahre 1845 und 1846. 



Berlin, 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Holmbre, C. A. Norske Vaegtloddpr fia Fjortende Aarhuudrede. Christiana, 



1863. From the Norway University. 



Hortus Christiaiiiensis. From the Norway University. 



Howse, R. A synopsis of the geology of Durham and part of Northumber- 

 land. By Richard Howse and J. W. Kirkby. From the Authors. 

 Jager, Dr. G. v. Ueber die Wirkungs^n des Arseuiksauf Pflanzen. Stuttgart, 



1864. From the. Author. 



Jan, Prof. G. Elenco sistematico degli Ofidi, Milano, 1863. From the Au- 

 thor. 

 Jerdon, T. C. The Birds of India. Vol. 3, Calcutta ,1864. From the Li- 



biary Fund. 

 Journal of tue Select Council of the City of Philadelphia, beginning Jan. 5 



und ending July 2. 1863. From the Select Council. 

 Kalman, G. L A L6^ Urai. Kepek a Madarvilagbol. 1 Fuzet. Pest, 1864. 



From the Author. 

 Earsten. H. Flor;e Columbine Terrarumque Adiacentinm, Specimina Selpct». 



Vols. 1 and 2, Fasc. 1 and 2. Berulini, 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the 



usual condiijons. 

 Eanlen, F. Librum Jonae FropbelaB cxposuit. Mognntiae, 1862. From the 



Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY 309 



Kennedy, J. C. G. Population of the United States in 1860. Washington, 1864, 



From the Author. 

 Preliminary Report on the Eighth Census, 18G0. Washinglon, 1862. From 



Charles H. Hart. 

 Kirk by. See Howse. 



Klein, J. De Jansenismi origine. Vratislftviae, 1863. From the Author. 

 Koniiick, L. de. M^moire sur les Fossilcs Paleozoiques recut illea dans 



L'lnde par M. le Dr. Fleming. Liege, 1863. From ihe Autbo'-. 

 Notice sur une Novelle espfece de Duvidsonia. Liege, 1855. From the 



Aiitlior. 

 Memoires de Pal^ontologie. Bruxelles, 1857 — 58. From the Author. 

 Nineteen Reports. From the same. 

 Memoires sur les genres tt les sous-genres des Brachiopodes. Liege, 1859. 



From the Aut.hor. 

 Re.lierches sur les Animaux Fossiles. Premiere Partie. Liege, 1847. 



From the Author. 

 Kuster, H. C. Systematisches Conchilien-Cabinet von Martini und Chemnitz. 



Erster Band. Heft 77. From Dr. Wilson on the usual conditions. 

 Lacordaire, M. Th. Nouvtlles Suites a Buffon. 72 Liv. Planches, 5o and 6e 



Liv. losectes Coleoptferes. Pari?, 1863. From the Auihor. 

 Lea, T. Observatim-? on the Genus Unio, vol. 10. From the Author. 



Descripiious of six new species of Uuionidoe, from Lake Kyasta, Central 



ACiicrt. From the Author. 

 Lea, M. Carey. Chemical contributiors to the American Journal of Science, 



ill the'year 1864. New Haven, 1864 From the Author. 

 Linden, J. Pescatorea. Iconoprapliiedes Orchiddes. Premier Volume. Brux- 



ellss. 1860. From Dr. Wilson, on the usnal conditions. 

 LinnsDiis, Sir Charles. A Universal S.\stem of Natural History, 14 vols., 8 mo. 



Loiidon, 1862. From Dr. Wilion, on the usual conditions. 

 Lor»nzi. SeeMau»t'i. 

 Malaise, C. M^moire sur les Decouvertes Paleontologiques faites en Belgique, 



jusqiii ce jour. Liege, 1860. From the Author. 

 Manetii. t»rnithologia roeihodice digesta. By Maneiti, Lorenzi and VannL 



5 vols., folio. Florence, 1767. From the Library Fut.d. 

 Marcon, J. Une reconnoi.-sance geologique an Nebraska. From the Author. 

 Marsigli. M. Lecomte Louis Ferd. de. Description du Danube. 3 vols., folio. 



Uaye, 1744. From the Library Fund. 

 Martini and Otto's Buffon's Natural History. Berlin, 1771-1807. 03 vols., 8 



vo. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Martius, Dr. C. F. P. V. Glossaria Lingiiaruni Brasiliensium. Erlangen 1863. 



From the Author. 

 Die Fieber-Rinde, der China Baum. From the Author. 

 Medical Theses, sixty-nine. From the University of Wurzehnrg. 

 Meteorlogische Waa'rnemingen in Nederland. Uitgegeven door het K. Neder- 



landich Meteorologische Institute. 1862. Utrecht. From the Insti- 

 tute. 

 Metteniuf, G. Ueber den Bau von Angiopteris. Leipzig, 1863. From the 



Saxon Natural Hist. Soc. of Leipzig. 

 Meyer, H. v. PnlfEontograpKica. Beitrage zur Natnrgepchichte der Vorwelt. 



Elf.'er Band, Fiinfte Lief., und Zwolfier Band, Erste Lief. Casstl, 1864. 



From Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Milne-Edwards, H. Legons sur la Physiologic et TAnstomie compar^e de 



IHomtne et des Animaux. Tome 8me. Premiere Partie. Paris, 1863. 



From Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Miquel, F. A. G. Annates Musei Botauici Lugduno-Batavi. Tome 1, Fasc. 1 



to 8. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Moleselioit. Unlersuchungen zur Na'urlehre des Menschen und der Thiere. 



9 Band, 2es Heft. Giessen, 1863. From the Library Fund. 




816 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Molkenbanr. See Dozy. 



Morelet, A. Notice sur I'Histoire Naturelles des Acores suivie d'un description 



des Mollusques terrestres de cet Archipel. Paris, 1860. From Dr. 



Wilson, on tiie usual cooditions. 

 Series Conchyliologique comprenant I'enuraeration des Mollusques. 3mc 



Livr. Avr. 1863. Paris. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Mdeller, Dr. Walpers. Annales Botanices Systematicae. Tome 6, Fasc. 5. 



Lipsiae, 1863. From tlie Library Fund. 

 Northwood, J. G. Abstract of a Report on Illinois Coal. Chicago, 1858. 



From the Author. 

 Norris, Thuddeus. The American Angler's Book. Philadelphia, 1864. From the 



Author. 

 Oldham, Thomas. Palfeontologia Indica. 2 iv. to 3 v. Calcutta, 1863 — 64. 



From the Geological Survey of India. 

 Palaeontological Society's Publications. Vol. 16, issued for 1862. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Palaeontologie Francaise, Terrain Cretac6, Liv. 15 to Terrain Jurassique, Liv. 



5 and Cr6tac6, Liv. 16. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Pallas, P. S. Relse durch verschiedene Provinzen des Russischen Reichs. 6 



vols., 4to. St. Petersburg, 1801. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Tableau Physique et Topographique de la Tauride par P. S. Pallas, 1 vol., 



4to. St. Petersburg, 1795. From the same. 

 Peter, Dr. H. Untersuchungen iiberdea Bau und die Entwickelungsgeschichte 



der Brutknospen. Hameln, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual con- 

 ditions. 

 Peters, W. C. H. Naturwissenschaftliche Reise nach Mossambique. Botanik 



i. and ii. Abth. Berlin, 1864. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 PfeiflFer, Dr. L. Novitates Conchologicae. 30 Lief. Cassel, 1863. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Pictet, F. J. Materiaux pour la Paleontologie Suisse. 3 vols. Geneva, 1858 — 



G3. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 PoggendorflF, J. C. Biographisch-literarisches Handworterbuch zurGeschichte 



der exactea Wissenschaften. Sechste Lief. Leipzig, 1863 From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Portugaliae Monumenta Historica. Leges et consuetudines. VoL 1, Fasc. 3. 



Olisbone, 1863. From the Academy of Lisbon. 

 Prestel, Dr. M. A. F. Das geographische System der Winde uber dem Atlan- 



tischen Ocean. Emden, 1863. From the Author. 

 Quenstedt, F. A. Geologisehe AusflUge in Schwaben. Tubingen, 1864. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Rabenhorst, Dr. L. Beitriige zur Naheren Kenntniss und Verbreltung der Algen. 



Heft 1. Leipzig, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Radde, G. Reisen im Siiden von Ost-Sibirien in den Jahreo. 1855 — 1859 inc. 



Bands 1 and 2. St. Petersburg, 1862. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual 



conditions, 

 Reade, W. W. Savage Africa. London, 1864. From the Library Fund. 

 Reakirt, Tryon. Notes on Central American Lepidoptera. No. 2. From the 



Author. 

 Reeve, L. Conchologia Iconica. Parts 232 to 237. London, 1863. From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Report of the Secretary of the Navy in relation to Armored Vessels. Washing- 

 ton, 1864. From the Navy Department. 

 Report, Sixteenth Annual, of the Regents of the University of the State of New 



York. Appendix D. From the Regents. 

 Report of the Commission on Meteorology in South Africa, July 7, 1863. From 



the Commission. 

 Report of the Secretary of the Treasury for the year ending June 30th, 1863. 



Washington, 1863. From the Treasury Department. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 811 



B«sults of the Meteorological Observations made at the Magnetlcal Observatory, 



Toronto, C. W., during the years 1854 to 1862, inc. 5 Vols., 4to. To- 

 ronto, 1864. From the Observatory. 

 Robin, Ch. Traite de Chimie Anatomique et Physiologique normale et path- 



ologique. 3 Vols., 8vo. and Atlas. Paris, 1853. From the Library 



Fund, 

 fioemer, Dr. F. Die Fossile Fauna der Silurischen Diluvial-Geschiebe von 



Sadewitz bei Oels in, Nieder-Schlesien. Breslau, 1861. From Dr. Wilson, 



on tbe usual conditions. 

 Romer, Dr. E. Die Familien, Genera, &c., der zweimuskeligen, kopflosen 



MoUusken mit inneren Ligament. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual con- 



diiions. 

 Roseburgh, A. M. A new Ophthalmoscope. Tract. From the Author. 

 Rutimeyer, Dr. L. Die Fauna der Pftthlbauten in der Schweiz. Base), 1861. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Sandberger, Dr. Fr. Die Flora der Oberen Steinkohlenformation im Badischen- 



Schwarzwald. From tbe author. 

 Sars, M. Oversigt over de i den Norsk- Arctiske Region. From the Norway 



University. 

 8;:himper, W. Ph. Icones Morphologicae atque Organographicse Introduction- 

 em synopsi Muscorum EuropoBorum. Siuttgartiae, I860, From Dr. 



Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Schlegel, H. De Vogels van Nederlandsch Indie. Haarlem, 1863. Monographie 



I, Pitta. Mon. 2, Ijsvogels. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual coudiiions. 

 Scbmarda, Ludwig K. Neue Wirbellose Thiere beobachtet und gesammelt 



auf einer Reiseum die Erde, 1853 bis 1857. Band 1. Leipzig, 1859. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Schmidt, Dr. 0. Die Spongien des Adriatischen Meeres. Leipzig, 1862, and 



Supplement, 1864. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Schrenck, Dr. L. V. Reisen und Forsehungen Im Amurlande in den Jahre, 



1854—1856. Band 1. les UQd 2e3 Lief. St. Petersburg, 1859-60. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual condiiions. 

 Setschenow, Dr. J. Physiologische Studien iiber die Hemmungsmecbanismen 



fiir die Reflexthatigkeit des Riicbenmarks, im Gehirne dea Frosches. 



Berlin, 1863. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Shaw. Reizen en Aanmerkingen, door en over Barbaryen en het Ooste. — A 



Dutch edition of Shaw's Travels in Barbary. 1 Vol., 4to. Amsterdam, 



1780. From the Library Fund. 

 Siebold, C. Th. E. v. Die Siisswasserfiscbevon Mittel-Europa. Leipzig, 1863. 



From Dr. T. B. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Silva, L. A. R. Corpo Diplomatico Portuguez. Tomes 1 and 2. Lisbon, 1862. 



From the Academy of Lisbon. 

 Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. 5. Washington, 1864. From the 



Smithsonian Institution. 

 Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. 13. Washington, 1863. From 



the same. 

 Smithsonian Report for 1862. From tbe Institution. 

 Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchyliorum, Part 22. London, 1863. From 



Dr. Wilson, on the usual condiiions. 

 Trask, Dr. J. B. A Register of tke Earthquakes in California from 1800 to 



1863. From the Author. 

 Troschel, Dr. F. H. Das Gebiss der Schnecken. Fiiofte Lief. Berlin, 1863. 



From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Tnrton's Linn6. 7 Vols., 8vo. Loudon, 1802-6. Thos. Say's copy, with MSS. 



notes and autograph. From D.". Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Tyler, W S. A Disourse delivered in the Village Church in Amherst, March 

 2d, 1864, at the funeral of Rev. Edw. Hitchcock. Springfield, 1864. 



From the Author. 




312 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Wagner, Dr. R. Handworterbuch der Physiologic, rait Rucksicht auf Physio- 

 logieche Pathologie. 4 Vols, in 5. Braunschweig, 1842. From the 

 Library Fund. 

 Weber, W. Elektrodynamische Maassbestimraungen insbe?ondre Uber Elek- 



triscbe Schwingungen. Leipzig, 1864. From the K. S. Gesell. der 

 Wis3enschafien. 

 Weidemejer, J. W, Catalogue of North American Butterflies. Philada., 1864. 



From the Author. 

 Wilcocks, Dr. A. Thoughts on the Influence of Ether in the Solar System. 



From the Author. 

 Winchell, Alex. Fossils from the Potsdam of Wisconsin and Lake Superior. 



From the Author. 

 Winchell, Alex. On the Prairies of the Mississippi Valley. From the Author. 

 Wolf, Dr. R. Die Sonne und ihre Flecken. Zurich, 1861. From the Author. 

 Valentin, Dr. G. Lehrbuch der Physiologie des Menschen. 2 Vols., Svo. 



Braunschweig, 1847. From the Library Fund. 

 Van der Hoeven, J. Bijdragen tot de Natuurlijke Geschiedenis van der Neger- 



tam. Leiden, 1842. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Vanni. See Manetti. 

 Verdeil, P. See Robin. 

 Verrill, E. A. Catalogue of (ho Reptiles and Batrachians found in the vicinity 



of Norway, Oxford Co., Me. Catalogue of the Birds found at the same 



place. From the Author. 

 Virgin, C. A. K. S. Fregatten Eugenies resa omkring Jorden under befal, af 



C. A. Virgin. Botanik IL Zoologie V. Stockholm, 1861. From the 



K. S. Vetenskaps-Akademiens. 

 Zanardini, J. Plantarum in Mari rubro bucnsque corectarum enumeratio. 



Veneiiis, 1838. From Dr. Wilson, on the usual conditions. 

 Zeller, P. C. Chilonidarum et Crambidarum genera et species. From the 



Smithsonian Institution. 




INDEX OF GENERA. 



Aega 155 



Aegialites 66 



Achirus ; 215 



Acris 182 



Actiturus 67 



Actodromas 67 



Adamaster 117, 119, 142 



Agalyclmis 181 



Aix 72 



Alauda 248 



Alburnops 281 



Alburmis 282 



Alca 244 



Alce-Jo 243 



Alopias 148, 261 



Alnns 18 



Ameuras 276 



Amia 276 



Ammothea 158 



Ampelis 251 



Ampelisca 158 



Amphithoe 156 



Ampbithonotns 158 



Anas 70, 72, 244 



ADcalosa ;. 97 



Anelytrops 230 



Amelia 230 



Anisarcbus 210 



Anolis 169 



Anonyx 167 



Anger 70 



Aprionodon 262 



Arctozenub 188 



Ardea 63, 245 



Ardetta , 64 



Artamas 50 



Aristida 19 



Atractosteas 185 



Aytbjra » 72 



Bonasa 23 



Bopjroides 156 



Botanras 65 



Bracbycybe 187 



Bucco 242 



Butoridea 64 



Calidris 67 



Calliste 286 



Campeloma 152 



Campostoma 284 



Canace 23 



Capito 288 



Caprella 156 



Carcbarodon 260 



Carpiodes 285 



Carpopbago. 50 



Cassicns 107 



Cassinia 182 



Candisona 166 



Centroblenniud 209 



Cencrocercns 23 



Centroscylliam 264 



Cepbaloxys 18 



Ceratichtbys 277 



Certbia 244 



Certbiola ... 271 



Cestracion 261 



Cetorbinus 256 



Cbsenopsetta 218 



Chamaeleolis 168 



Cbaradrius 66, 246 



Chaulelasmas 72- 



Cbelysoma 161 



Cbloropbanes 277 



Cbrasomns 281 



Citbarichtbys 220 



Coereba 265 



Columba 248^ 




314 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Colymbns 21, 245 



Conirostrum..... ." 272 



Coracias 242 



Corvus ■ 242 



Cuculus 243 



Cnpidonia 23 



Cytlopterus 189 



Cylindrosteus 183 



Cymochorea 75, 90 



Cynthia 159 



Cyprimeria 212 



Cystignathus 182 



Cytherea ^ 212 



Dacnis 106, 268 



Dafila 71 



Demiegretta 63 



Dendragapus 23 



Dendrocygna 70 



Desmodium 17 



Didunculus 50 



Diglossa 273 



Diglossopis .« 275 



Diploglossus 179, 227 



Dosiniopsis 213 



Echeneis 60 



Ecphora 211 



Eleocharis 18 



Elephantcpus 18 



Emberiza 253 



Epidalea 181 



Ereunetes 68, 107 



Erycinella 212 



Euchalarodus 216, 221 



Eugomphodus 260 



Eulamia 261 



Eamesogrammus 210 



Euiuicrotremus 190 



Eupagurus 153 



Eupristis 168 



Falco 237 



PMciolaria 211 



Florida 62 



Ft^getta 85, 91 



Fringilla 254 



Pulica 69, 246 



Pulix 71 



Qaleocerdo 263 



Galeorlnni 261 



iJalliuago 67 



Gallinula 69 



Gambetta 68 



' Gammaras 157 



Qiarz«3tta 63 



Gtorrhonotus 179 



Gotaphobates 16H 



Goniobasis 3, 24, 111 



Gronias 231 



Gymnotus 161 



Halocyptena 78, 90 



Heliotropium 18 



Hemidacnis 271 



Heptanchus 150 



Herodias 63 



Heteroglossa 182 



Heminantis 182 



Himantopus 67 



Hippoglossoides 217 



Hippoglossus 198, 220 



Hippolyte 153 



Hirundo 257 



Hoplobatrachus .*.... 182 



Hybognathus 283 



Hybopsis 279 



Hydrocotyle 17 



Hyla 182 



Hylella 182 



Hylambates 182 



Hylomyzon 286 



Hyperolius 182 



Hypsilepis 279 



Hypsopsetta 197 



Ibis 65 



Ichthyomyzon 276 



Ictalurus 276 



Idothea 155 



Iguania 227 



Isuropsis 260 



lulus. , 10 



Labrus 67 



Laemanctns.. 176 



Lampropholis 179 



Lanius 238 



Larus 245 



Lepidopsetta 196 



Lepidosteus. 183, 276 



Leptecheueides 60 



Leptoblennius 209 



Leptoclinus 210 



Leptoglossa 227 



Leptopelia 182 



Limanda 217 



Limosa S6 



Lioplax 152 



Liopsetta 217 



Liparia 190 



Lirosoma ., 212 



Lopbopsetta ••• 22Q 



Loxia 291 



Lnmpenas 210 



Lymnaea 113 




INDEX OP GENERA. 



316 



Lymnnla 152 



Lyrurus 23 



Majaques.. 117, 142 



Malacosteus 188 



Mareca 71 



Melantho 152 



Mentha 18 



Merops 243 



Meseschiza 2 



Metoponops 198 



Micropalama 67 



Monasa 288 



Monocondyloea 286 



Mordellistena 105 



Motacilla 256 



Muscicapa 255 



Mustelus 148, 263 



Myosotis 18 



Myxophyes lf»2 



Myzopsetta 217 



Nectris 117, 123, 143 



Nettion 72 



Noetia 211 



Notorhynchus 148 



Nototrema 182 



Noturus 277 



Nuraenias 68 



Numlda 247 



Nyctherodius , 65 



Nyctiardea 65 



Nyroca 72 



Oceanites 82, 90 



Oceauodroma 74, 89 



Octogena 156 



Oidemia... 72 



Oligosoma 180 



Ophidium 199 



0rio!u3 242 



Orthogonys 287 



Orthopsetta 198 



Pachyglossa 226 



Paecilonetta 71 



Pdladicola... 180 



Paludina 152 



Paralepis 187 



Paralepsis 151 



Paralichthys 197 



Parophrys 196 



Parus 257 



Pavo 247 



Pediaecaetes 23 



Pelagodroma..... 87, 91 



Pelecanus , 245 



Pentacta 161 



Fhoeuicopteras 65 



Phascolosomam 159 



Phasianus 247 



I'hrynosoma 178 



Phyllomedusa 181 



Physa 114 



Picus , 243 



Pimelometopon 58 



Pimephales 282 



Pipra 257 



Pittasoma 287 



Plagusia 215 



Planorbis 5, 111 



Plargyrus 281 



Plataiea 65 



Platichthys 1»7 



Platypodon 262 



Pletholax 231 



Pleuronectes 196 



Plearodera ISl 



Pleurouichthy3 191 



Pluchea 16 



Podiceps 70 



Podilymbus 70 



Pogoniclithys 277 



Polydesinas 6 



Polypedates 182 



Poleprosopus 207 



Poinatopsetta 217 



Porzana 69 



Procellaria 79, 90 



Protocardia 211 



Proteroglo3sa 183 



Psettichthys 197 



Pseudis 182 



Pseudopleurouectes 216 



Psittacus 239 



Ptychostomus 286 



Puffinus 117, 127, 143 



Pyxicephalus 182 



Querquedula 71 



Radiolites 214 



Rallus 69, 247 



Ramphastos 241 



Rana 182 



Recurvirostra 67 



Reinhardtius 218 



Remorse 60 



Reniceps 261 



Rhina 264 



Rliinichtliys 278 



Rhiptoglossa 226 



Rhyacophilus 67 



Rbyncbospora 19 



Saltator 106 



Sceloporas , 177 



Schizostoma 92, 112 




816 



INDEX OF GENERA. 



Scirpus 18 



Scoliodon 263 



Sebastes 59, 146 



Sebastodes 146 



Sebastomns 147 



Sebastosomus 147 



Semicossypbus 57 



Semotilus 277 



Siaphus 231 



Sodis 151 



Somniosus 264 



Spatha 109, 113 



Spatula.. 71 



Spirobolus 15 



Squaliiis 280 



Squalus 263 



Squatarola 66 



Sternaspis 159 



Stichaeus 210 



Strepbobasis 5 



Strepsilas 66 



Strepsipteron 50 



Strix 238 



Sturnus 249 



Snccinea 109 



Sndis 187 



Sjmpbemia 67 



Tantalus 246 



Tanagra 25S 



Tetrao .'. 23, 247 



Thecaglossa 227 



Tbiellus 117, 122, 142 



Tomodon 166 



Tomopterna 182 



Toluca 166 



Trachycephalus 182 



Trichiarus 199, 205 



Tringa 67, 246 



Trocbilus 244 



Trocbocopus 57 



Trypanostoma 4, 112 



Tardus 249 



Turritella 211 



Typblopbthalmi 228 



Unio 108, 113, 285 



Uropsetta i 198 



Uta 176 



Xlphosnras 168 




GENERAL INBEX. 



Announcement of the publication of tlje 

 Proceeiinffs for December, 1363, 21. 



Canby, W. M., Notes of BotaaicAl Visits 

 to tlie lower pirtof Dilaware and 

 tli9 Eistern Shore of Maryland, 2,lG. 



Cassin, J.. Preamble and resolutions 

 with reference to the late President 

 Isaac Lea, 1 ; Remarks on rare birds 

 presented to the Academy by the 

 Smithsonian Inst., 50; Notes of an 

 examination of the Birds of the 

 Group Coerebinae, 92,265; Notice 

 of the bequest of Mr. Ashmead's col- 

 lection of Algae to the* Academy, 

 145 ; Fasti Ornithologiae, Part I, 

 214,234; Notes on some species of 

 Birds from South America, 276, 286. 



Cooper, J. G., On a new Cormorant 

 from tUe Farralone Islands, Gal., 

 258; 



Conrad, T. A., Notes on Shells, with 

 Descriptions of new fossil Genera 

 and Specie?, 186, 211. 



Cope, B D., Contributions to the Her- 

 petolosy of Tropical America, 165 

 166; On the Limits and Relations of 

 the Raniformes, 166, 181; On a blind 

 Silurid from Pennsylvania, 214, 231 ; 

 On the Characters of the higher 

 groupes of Reptilia squamata, and 

 especially of the Diploglossa, 214, 

 224; Partial Catalogue of the Cold- 

 blooded Vertebrata of Michigan, 276. 



Cones, E., The Crania of Colymbus 

 torquatus and C. Adamsii compared, 

 1,21; A Critical Review of tbe Family 

 Procellaridae, Part 1,50, 72; Pan 

 II, 92, 116. 



Durand, E., Report of the Botanical 

 Committee for 1864, 291. 



Elections for 1864, 293. 



Elliot, D. G., Remarks upon a Proposed 

 Arrangement of the Family of Grouse, 

 and New Genera added, 20, 23. 



Eanis, J., Additions to the Catalogue 

 of Stars which have changed their 

 colors, 49, 51 ; On the Influence of 

 the Earth's Atmosphere on the Color 

 of Stars, 152, 161. 



Gill, Theo., Note on the Nomenclature 

 of Genera and Spices of E;jhemei- 

 doidas, 49, 59 ; Description of a new 

 labroid Genus allied to Trochocopus, 

 49, 57 ; Critical Remarks on the Ge- 

 nera Sebastes and Sebastodes, 50, 

 145 ; Second Contribution to the 

 Selachology of California, 147 : Re- 

 marks oa several points in Ichthyolo- 

 gy and Conchology, 151 ; Synopsis of 

 the Pleuronectoids of the eastern 

 coast of North America, 186, 214; 

 Synopsis of the Cyclopteroids of east- 

 ern North America, 186, 189 ; Notes 

 on the Paralttpidoid? and Microsto- 

 matoids, and on sorae peculiarities 

 of Arctic Ichthyology, 186, 187 ; 

 Synopsis of the Pleuronectoids of 

 California and North-western Amer- 

 ica, 186, 194 ; Descriptions of a new 

 Generic type of Pleuronectoids, 186, 

 198; On the Affinities of several 

 doubtful British Fishes, 186, 199; 

 Notes on the Family Stichaeoids, 186, 

 208 ; Descriptions of new genera and 

 speices of Eastern American Pleuro- 

 nectoids, 186. 220; Synopsis of the 

 Eastern American Sharks, 258. 



Helmuth, C. A., New Species of Mor- 

 dellestiua collected in Illinois, 49, 

 105. 




318 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Index of Genera, 313. 



Lawrence, G. N., Descriptions of New 

 Speicies of Birds of the Families 

 CaerebidaB, Tanngridae, Icteridae and 

 Scolopacidfe, 106. 



Lea, L, Description of a new Genus of 

 the Family Melanidiae, 1, 2 ; Descrip- 

 tion of eleven new species of Indi- 

 genous MelanidJB, 1. 3; Description 

 of Planorbis Newberryi, 1,5; Des- 

 criptions of six new speces of Unioni- 

 dae from lake Nyassa, Central Africa, 

 92, 108 ; Descriptions of six new 

 species of Succinea, 92, 109 ; De- 

 scriptions of thirteen new species of 

 Melanidjfe, 92, 111; Description of a 

 new species of Planorbis, 92, 111; 

 Descriptions of five new species of 

 Symnaea, 92, 113; Descriptions of 

 two new species of Unionidae from 

 South Africa, 92, 113 ; Descriptions 

 of twenty-four new species of Physa 

 of the United States and Canada, 92, 

 114 ; New Unionidae, Melanidae, &c., 

 chiefly of the United States, 145 ; 

 Descriptions of six new Western Asi- 

 atic Unionidae, 276, 285. 



Leconte, Dr. J. L., Remarks on Dr. 

 Gerstaecker's reference to his Classi- 

 fication of the Coleoptera of North 

 America, 49. 



Leidy, Dr. J., Report of the Curators, 

 289. 



Leslie, J. P., Exhibition of specimens of 

 Petroleum Rock, 258. 



March, W. T., Notes on the Birds of 

 Jamaica. Part 3, 49, 62. 



Officers for 1865, 292. 



Rand, Dr. B. H., Report of the Record- 

 ing Secretary for 1864, 288. 



Resolutions to deposit the specimens 

 of antique art belonging to the 

 Academy in the Museum of the Amer- 

 ican Philosophical Society, 21. 



Sergeant, J. D., Librarian's Report for 

 1863, 19 ; Report for 1864, 289. 



Standing Committees for 1864, 19. 



Stimpson, Dr. Wm., Descriptions of 

 new marine Invertebrata from Puget's 

 Sound, &c., 145, 153. 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr., Synonymy of the 

 Species of Strepomatidae, No. 2, 20, 

 24; Part 3, 49, 92. 



Wilcocks, Dr. A., Thoughts on the in- 

 fluence of Ether in the Solar System, 

 1, 21, 49, 50. 



Wilson, Dr. T. B., Resignation as 

 President, 153. 



Winchell, Alex., Description of a Gar 

 Pike, supposed to be new, 165, 183 ; 



Wood, Dr. H. C, Descriptions of new 

 Species of North American Polydes- 

 midae, 1, 6; Descriptions of new 

 species of North America lulidiB, 1, 

 10 ; Description of new Genera and 

 species of North America Myriapoda, 

 186. 












BINDING S::J.. JAN 251971 



QH Academy of natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A 2 Proceedings 



V.16 



It Medical 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





